

m
ill
■ _ _.; /.z
NEWCASTLE STHL WORM
AUSTRALIA
:'v -.'- il:& ■ ■■■
X'
zm
stse-
sfited
' •
‘ J
- Z Z* -
s/3w®
mm.
> m
m
wm.
&r'?SA
n)\ ■ ■ -\
i-’U
m
.... .-« * J
r~ s
: : >V
I —Loading Iron Ore by Electric
Shovel, Iron Knob, S.A .
.
I -'
2 —Wilputte Coke Ovens Plant
Blast Furnace Plant capa-
city 12,740 tons per week.
m
4—Plate Mill.
s—Merchant5 —Merchant Bars and Sections
in Stock Yard.
mi
e
MINE OWNERS, SHIP OWNERS, IRON AND STEEL
MANUFACTURERS AND COLLIERY PROPRIETORS
Offices
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London
Brisbane —Steel Products (Queensland) I’t.v,, Ltd.
Works: Newcastle CN.S.W), Iron Knob (S.A.), Uevonport (Tasmania). Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
I , i
in mill I )Miiiiii iii i iiaTJiiiiiiiiiiiva»&*
List of Manufactures
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANGLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
r
AN INVITATION
IS EXTENDED TO
CUSTOMERS TO VISIT
OUR WORKS
AT NEWCASTLE
The Bulletin
The Prizewinning Bush Ballads
Vol. 57—No. 2938.
Wednesday, June 3, 1936.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to;
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
"Storu Writing
vJV uI V at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL
Please send, without obtiyalion, your New Free
Hooldet, cxplainitnj how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ...
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services lo Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar lo those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 19J6,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. Ihe
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a Horn de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out 'of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Svdncy, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HEMINGWAY
ON WRITERS
After the day’s
big-game hunting
in Green Hills of
Africa, Ernest
Hemingway and
co. return to the
campfire. Some whisky’s drunk, they
chaff each other, the dialogue gets going.
Once or twice it is literary.
“Do you think writing is worth doing—
as an end in itself? ”
“Oh, yes.”
“You are sure?”
“Very sure.”
“That must be very pleasant.”
,“h ' s the one altogether pleasant thing
about it.”
Hemingway adds that “the reason every-
one now tries to avoid it, to deny that
it is important, to make it seem vain to
lly to do it, is because it is so difficult.”
He speaks of a prose that might be
written if anyone were serious enough
and had luck. “There is a fourth and
fifth dimension that can be gotten.”
“But that is poetry you are talking
about.”
“No. It is much more difficult than
poetry. It is a prose that has never been
written. But it can be written, without
Hicks and without cheating. With nothing
that will go bad afterwards.”
“And why has it not been written?”
“Because (here are too many factors.
First, there must be talent, much talent.
Talent such as-Kipling had. Then there
must be discipline. The discipline of
Flaubert. Then there must be the con-
ception of what it can be and an
absolute conscience as unchanging as
the standard metre in Paris, to pre-
vent laking. Then the writer must be
intelligent and disinterested, and above all
be must survive. Try to get all these in
one person and have him come through
all the influences that press on a writer.”
I he hardest thing, says Hemingway, is
for that writer to survive and get his
work done. He adds something which
writers have been known to resent, but
on his authority it may be restated:
“Writers should work alone. They should
see each other only after their work is
done, and not too often then. Otherwise
they become like writers in New York.
All angleworms in a bottle, trying to de-
rive knowledge and nourishment from
their own contact and from the bottle
They are lonesome outside of the bottle.
I hey do not want to be lonesome. They
are afraid to be alone in their beliefs”....
Of American writers in particular:
“We have no great writers. Something
happens to our good writers at a certain
age....We destroy them in many ways.
, First, economically. They make money.
It is only by hazard that a writer makes
money, although good books always make
money eventually. Then our writers when
they have made some money increase their
standard of living and they arc caught.
They have to write to keep up their estab-
lishments, their wives, and so on, and they
write slop. It is slop not on purpose, but
because it is hurried. Because they write
when there is nothing to say or no water
in the well. Because they arc ambitious.
Then, once they have betrayed themselves,
they justify it, and you get more slop.”
The defence can hardly be offered for
Australian writers that they are destroyed
by money. At least, it cannot be said
of the writers who stay in Australia.
Hemingway adds:
“Or else they read the critics. If they be-
lieve the critics when they say they are great
then they must believe them when they say
they are rotten, and they lose confidence.
At present we have two good writers who
cannot write because they have lost con-
fidence through reading critics. If they
wrote sometimes it would be good and
sometimes not so good, and sometimes it
would be quite bad, but the good would
get out. But they have read the critics
and they must write masterpieces. The
masterpieces the critics said they wrote.
They weren’t masterpieces, of course. They
were just quite good books. So now they
cannot write at all. The critics have made
them impotent.”
Hemingway does not name the two, but
it seems evident that one of them is
Thomas Wolfe. How much more true,
then, is this of Australian writers! Not
loss of confidence through inimical criti-
cism : that is something every writer
survives who survives at all. But the
damage that has been done by praise of
work that looks miserably small beside
Wolfe’s. And how much all this points
the danger to the writer’s work of the
implicit mutual admiration inseparable
from the atmosphere of literary groups.
The groupists will not see this. They
believe, if you suggest it, that you’re
not being friendly, but are merely a nark
impelled by spleen.
There is one sort of critic’s bondage
Australian writers seem to sutler pecu-
liarly under. Americans may have
escaped from it; Hemingway does not
mention it, and, anyway, the writing of
some of them indicates that some have.
This is the bondage called being True
to Life. They are dragged into this by
the continuous bleating of critics over
factual inaccuracies. “But you cannot
see Bathurst from the So-and-so Ranges,”
was the condemnation of one good novel
which strayed only incidentally near
Bathurst. “There arc no native bears in
Tasmania,” was the condemnation of an-
other good one. Nearly every Austra-
lian book written comes under that sort
of fire. As a result, writers pride them-
selves on being good reporters. They
dare not write imaginatively because they
are in bondage to report actuality. It
works another way. They will set out
and really imagine story, then
incorporate in it incidents which actually
have happened in life. When you say,
“This is not convincing,” they say, “But
it must be. It’s true. It actually hap-
pened.” And they really believe in that.
You may try to convince them out of
your own thinking on the matter, or you
may try to. do it with some authority:
“This is what Norman Douglas says”:
I have never tried to draw a figure from
life, as they say. My creed is that a
human character, however engrossing, how-
ever convincing and true in itself, must be
modelled anew before it can become
material for fiction. It must be licked into
shape, otherwise its reactions, in a world
of fictitious characters, would be out of
focus. No authentic child of man will fit
into a novel. History is the place for such
people; history, or oblivion.
But it makes no difference. You’re only
a theorist and Norman Douglas is an-
other. They are true reporters, and
happy.
C. M.
Scholem
Asch
Scholem Asch,
who has been
mentioned for the
Nobel Prize, has
long been known
in European liter-
ature, though it is only comparatively
recently that he has come under the
notice of the English reading public with
the translation of Three Cities, Salvation
and Motke the Thief. Some 25 years
ago Asch took Europe by storm with
his powerful drama “God of Vengeance,”
which ran for several hundred nights
at German and other European theatres.
Scholem Asch was born in 1880 in
Kutno, in the district of Warsaw. He
came at an early age to Warsaw, where
he published his Township [Die Staedtl),
a book which assured his place in Yiddish
literature. There are few books in this
literature to equal it for sheer beauty
and simplicity. It has about it the
idyllic calmness of the Book of Ruth.
The strength of Asch’s play “God of
Vengeance” is in its tragic conflict, which
takes place in the inarticulate, animal-
like Yekel Schefchovitch, the owner of a
brothel, who, in hope m obviate his “un-
savory past,” writes a holy scroll in
reconciliation with God. Yekel reckons
upon the God of Mercy, but it is the God
of Vengeance that, metes out to him a
terrible punishment in the form of his
daughter’s escape and her ignoble return.
The written Torah, the symbol of Yekel’s
rising hopes and afterwards lost illu-
sions, is die most powerful among the
persona > dramatis of this two-act play.
An analogy between “God of Vengeance”
and Shaw’s “Mrs. Warren’s Profession”
suggests itself to the reader at first glance.
But, as the American Jewish critic T.
Goldberg points out, “Shaw's play is
essentially sociological and is a drama of
disillusionment, while Asch’s piece grows
with poetic realism and recounts an indi-
vidual tragedy not without symbolic
power.”
The years which followed the revolution
of 1905, when the Czarist forces descended
upon the radical Russian and Jewish
intelligentsia, found their artistic expres-
sion in two of Asch’s books which are
closely knit together. Meri and The Road
to Self are a product of those years of
search and quest. The heroes of those
books are no isolated characters. They
are true to the tradition of the “super-
fluous” uprooted intellectuals who swarm
Russian literature of those years. I
dwell intentionally upon these two books
because it strikes me that Mirkin of
Three Cities is essentially in the tradition
of his past heroes. There is a sentence
in Three Cities as a motto for the book:
“He who is hindered from living in the
full current of reality takes refuge in
fantasy in words of his own creation.”
Mirkin, the main hero of Three Cities,
is such a “refugee in fantasy.”
But if Asch fails in making Mirkin a
real living character, he succeeds un-
doubtedly in painting in the vast epic
background of Three Cities. There
are few books of recent years to equal, it
for its sheer canvas and rich gallery of
types and characters. Asch certainly
succeeds in depicting the fever of the
days that shook the world, and conveys
admirably the tempo of the time. His
description of Lodz and Warsaw has
little to equal it; he seems to bestow
upon us in those chapters all the warmth
of his love for his native country.
It is his native country which inspired
Asch to write Township, but it is
not always to the beauty of the Polish
countryside that he turns for the back-
ground of his work. He writes equally
well of the slums of Lodz and Warsaw
where he passed his grim adolescence
and literary apprenticeship. Motke the
Thief, one,of the most powerful books
in Yiddish literature of recent years, is
the story of those slums and of the dregs
of humanity. Motke, closely related To
his prototype Yekel, of “God of Ven-
geance,” is a dumb, animal-like being
who, like Yekel, is torn between the
crirnes and moral vices of the under-
world where he is king and the will to
the good and pure which he inherited
from his home and his mother.
The influence of Russian literature upon
Asch is most marked. The main charac-
ters of Meri and The Road to Self are
reminiscent of the superfluous types of
Andreiev, Kuprin, Artsibashev and many
other Russian writers of the pre-war
decade. Motke, again, is closely related
to the tramps who recur under many
guises in Gorki’s stories.
Asch’s Salvation is the story of a simple
Jew, Yechiel, who is known as the Psalm-
Jew. It has to do with the Chassidic
movement, which was essentially a mass
movement of the poor and ignorant,
who, barred from the learning of the
Talmud because of a superstructure cf
the scholastic commentaries and hair-
splitting “pilpul,” looked for a way to
God jn their own simple manner. This
movement originated towards the end
of the eighteenth century in Galicia.
Salvation is a variation on the Chassidic
theme. Kechiel’s philosophy is that of
simple pantheism. “Although a child,
Ycchiel already had his own idea of
God. Though he could not picture to
himself how God looked, he was firmly
convinced of one thing, that God was
everywhere and whoever wished could
find him at any lime.” From this con-
ception of God follows Yechiel’s bound-
less love for suffering humanity.
If the analogy between Asch’s char-
acters and those taken from Russian
literature can be drawn further, we will
find a striking resemblance between
Yechiel and Aliosha Karmazov of
Dostoievski’s Brothers Karmazov . There
is about the two of them the same sim-
plicity and childlike trust and faith in
the ultimate victory of goodness.
Scholem Asch is at present in Pales-
tine, gathering local color for a new
book.
HIRSCH MUNZ.
Mr. Nichols
Testihes
In The Fool
H a t h S a i d
Beverley Nichols
testifies of a per-
sonal “spiritual
progress fr o m
darkness to light.” In other words, Mr.
Nichols has “got religion,” He has got
it very thoroughly,, and, though the
pitch he has chosen has a curious re-
semblance to Fleet-street, nobody can
have any doubt of the sincerity of his
conviction.
The first thing that must be noticed
when anyone stands up and testifies is
the voice. This is Mr. Nichols’s:
At some time or another you have been
crueli. You have snubbed somebody, or
hurt him without reason —you have, per-
haps, laughed at his love, sent him away
empty-handed. And when you have done
that, after it was all over, you felt a
beast....
It seems too utterly idiotic....
It seems a far, far tunc played on a
lovely but illusory flute, somewhere on
the shores of the world, in the days when
the moon was a child’s bubble rather than
the synthetic pearl which it is to-day....
My dear Rationalist, you can’t say that
sort of thing, you can’t, really.
Those are not mere bad examples;
they are the tone of the whole expres-
sion : they are Mr. Nichols’s style, surely
one of the worst ever written. It might
best be described as a delicate example
of the male soprano manner of writing.
Yet as surely it must be admitted that
the book has quite extraordinary quali-
ties of personality and sincerity. The
voice trills and quavers, but what is said
is sincere enough and not unintelligent.
Mr. Nichols is a Christian and a
Pacifist. He is not a Pacifist merely in
the sense of being one who prefers
peace to war. Neither is he the kind of
Pacifist who makes po scruple of urging
others to fight an actual, though unpre-
dictable, war for a hypothetical peace.
Mr. Nichols is the kind of Pacifist who
is a literal translation of Christ’s say-
ing: “And unto him that smiteth thee
on the one cheek, offer also the other,
and him that taketh away thy cloke for-
bid not to take thy coat also.” That is
to say, defence of anything whatever is
anathema to Mr. Nichols: he could not
war and he would have no one war for
anything whatever. And that is to say
that, if the forces of barbarism should
arise against European civilisation, they
should not be opposed, ft is to overlook
that European civilisation is nothing
other than the militant triumph of Chris-
tianity over the forces of barbarism. It
is to overlook, what Douglas Jerrold in
his latest book points out, that every
single principle upon which our civilisa-
tion rests was fought for bit by bit over
many centuries. Mr. Nichols has a
great time in his book confounding in-
credibly dull Bernard Shaws, Yeats
f Continued on page 4 .1


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
■Always.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
“The Senior Store”
ŗ
“While I Live I'll Grow
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Sporting Guns and Rifles for the 1936 Season
'■■*■'■***■■■'.% v*.
S 3
12G. Belgian
D. B. Breech-
loading Gun
£7/10/.
12G. Belgian D.B. Breech-loading Gun, with Quadruple Webley-
Greener bolt, best rebounding bar-action locks, best quality
steel barrels, reinforced chamber, choke, matted rib, full scroll
fence, neat English engraving, fine walnut stock, checkered
patent fore-end, nitro proved. Price £7/10/-
ř
.22 Savage
Sporter,
Bolt Action
.22 Savage Sporter, Bolt-action Repeating Rifle.
Model 23A. Price £6/7/6
£ 6/7/6
w
Winchester Carbine, Military Sight
Winchester Carbine, full or half magazine, 20in. I*l7l ft
round barrel, military sight. Weight about I //O
Model 1892. 25/20, .32 calibre. Price £9/17/6
38, .44 calibre. Price £9/17/6
GUN AND RIFLE CARTRIDGES
Gun Cartridges:
Eley’s Grand Prix, 12, 16 and 20 gauges.
Price, per 100 17/9
Nobel’s Nile Ballastite, case, 12 gauge.
Price, per 100 22/-
Nobel’s Ballastite, 2fin. case, 12 gauge.
Price, per 100 . . 26/9
Rifle Cartridges:
.22 Short, Nobel’s 1.C.1. Price, per 100 ........ 2/6
Price, per 1000 23/9
.22 Long, Nobel’s 1.C.1. Price, per 100 3/3
Price; per 1000 30/-
.22 Long-rifle, Nobel’s 1.C.1. Price, per 100 .... 3/9
Price, per 1000 . . 35/6
.25/20 and .32 calibre, Black. Price, per 100 .. 17/-
.25/20 and .32 calibre, Smokeless, Price, per 1 00. . 21/-
■22 Savage Hi Power. Price, per 100 37/6
•25 and .32 Long Rimfire. Price, per 100 9/3
• 303 Mark VI Cartridges. Price, per 100 12/6
You can’t shoot any better than your gun or rifle will allow you.
Duck-shooting or rabbit-shooting, you want to be sure that your
gun can be depended upon. Anthony Horderns’ have the gun or
rifle for you—moderately priced. Anything else you may want
for your shooting trip can also be supplied by our modern
sporting department at prices which are always the lowest
possible, quality considered.
e
20-Gauge English
Hammerless Gun
20-gauge Eng- C'lA.i'Xill
lish Hammer- Xl**7 111/-
less Gun, 30in. steel barrels, nitro proved, left choke, right modified. Made
by Fred. Williams, Birmingham. A good light, strong gun. Price, £l4/10/-.
12G. D.8.8.L.
Top Lever Gun
Wm ' fl3/13|-
more IzCi. ** lW / ■wj
è
D.8.8.L. Top Lever Gun. Crossbolt action, steel barrels, left choke, engine-
turned rib, well-figured walnut stock, horn heelplate, Deeley and Edge fore-
end well finished, neatly engraved. Specially proved for nitro powders.
Price , . £l3/1 3/-
w
Browning
Auto-loading
92/6
Browning Auto-loading Rifle, solid breech, hammerless, will fire rimfire .22
calibre long-rifle smokeless cartridges. 20in. round barrel. Weight, 4^lb.
Magazine holds eight cartridges. Price 92/6
As above, for .22 short. Magazine holds 1 1 cartridges. Price 92/6
e
Harrington and
Richardson Single-
Barrelled Guns
Harrington and
Richardson Single-
-55/-
barrelled Guns, top lever automatic ejector, full choke. Weight about 61b.
1 2-gauge, 30 inches. Price
16- and 20-gauge, 30 inches. Price 55/-
.22 CALIBRE WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE. MODEL 62.
Price £5/5/-
.22 CALIBRE WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC RIFLE. MODEL 63, LONG-
RIFLE. Price £9/10/-
.22 CALIBRE WINCHESTER BOLT-ACTION REPEATING RIFLE.
MODEL 69. Price 90
3
Bolt Action
Rifles,
Single Shot
.22 CALIBRE “SURE SHOT” RIFLES, bolt action, 18in.
barrel. Price . . 25j m
.22 CALIBRE “SPORTSMAN” RIFLE, bolt action, 24in.
barrel, grooved forearm. Price 35j-
.22 CALIBRE “MARKSMAN” RIFLE, bolt action, 24in.
barrel. Tangent rear sight. Price .. . 37/6
e
.303 Sporting
Rifles, £5/15/.
.303 Sporting Rifles. These rifles are the long Lee-Enfield Military Rifle cut
down and reconditioned. A good high-power rifle. Price £5/15/-
.303 Mark VI Cartridges. Price, per 100 12/6
9 Guns —Lower Ground Floor, Pin Street.
. , , Note. —Freight paid on all firearms priced at 501- and over.


Browns and Henry Fords; it occurs to
none of these ventriloquial oracles to
catechise Mr. Nichols on the militant
establishment of Christianity. In these
amiable discussions nobody asks Mr.
Nichols such questions as whether war
was ever waged for the abolition of
slavery, and whether slavery would have
been abolished without war. Nothing
like that. Nobody suggests to Mr.
Nichols that European civilisation and
Christianity are synonymous terms ; and
that this civilisation is not a miraculous
mushroom, but a hardly won achieve-
ment of men carrying on over centuries
an endless struggle towards the general
acceptance of Christian principles.
So it is that, galloping blissfully along
towards a personal faith unrestrained by
any such considerations as those, Mr.
Nichols casts an eye over the British
Empire, with this surprising result:
It will, finally, be admitted that an-
other world war would, in all probability,
shatter what is left of civilisation, and so
weaken the Empire that it would be a prey
to the forces of barbarism.
And that, of course, shatters the whole
case for Mr. Nichols’s sort of Pacifism.
It admits that to weaken the Empire
would invite barbarism to triumph.
There is only one possible meaning to
“weaken the Empire.” It means that
the Empire would be deprived of
strength to oppose, which, of course,
logically is an admission that the reason
the Empire survives is that it is strong,
and that this strength is based on force
and the will to use that force. Mr.
Nichols’s position in this scheme of
things is that if the “forces of bar-
barism” came he should not be asked
to do anything about it. Christianity is
a great comfort to Mr. Nichols person-
ally, but he should not be asked to think
of it as something worth holding for
the world. Mr. Nichols’s Christianity, in
other words, is a personal gift from
God to Mr. Nichols for Mr. Nichols’s
own private comfort
As for the part of Mr. Nichols’s book
which the cables singled out as “news”
for Australia a couple of months ago,
the element the Englishman of Mr.
Nichols’s pioneering calibre shrinks from
is excessive heat: therefore, the unin-
habitable part of Australia is the north,
and it should be handed over to the
Japanese. Mr. Nichols believes that,
in everlasting peace, the north of Aus-
tralia could thus be Asiatic and the
south British. It would seem to Mr.
Nichols merely parochialism to suggest
that no fool ever concocted a more
obvious recipe for certain war than that.
R. P.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
OUTSTANDING NEW WORK
Three More Plays Bernard Shaw
Green Hills of Africa Ernest Hemingway
The Old Man’s Coming Gustav Janson
The Fool Hath Said Beverley Nichols
THE three plays in the new Shaw col-
*■ lection are “The Simpleton of the
Unexpected Isles,” “The Six of Calais”
and “The Millionairess” (Constable ;
Angus and Robertson; 11s. 3d.). The
one-acter, “The Six of Calais,” gives a
new reality to the familiar dramatic epi-
sode. It is likely to still be a play for
actors when the others, owing to their
largely topical interest, are material for
book mites and historians. That does not
make the other two any less interesting
reading now. Both have the sparkling
clearness and lucidity by which Shaw is
one of the finest of all writers of English,
and they have plenty of lively wit. Of
these two “The Simpleton” is possibly
the better. It is good fantasy that may
someday go down well as children’s
entertainment. There is an angel that
comes down and shakes bullets out
of its wings, a lovely tropic isle, a charm-
ing experiment in inbreeding and a well-
stated argument in favor of what the
Russians call “liquidation,” the role of
the head of the Ogpu being played off-
stage by God. The craftsmanship, of
course, is fine —that goes for all three
plays—and there are some effective bits
in it, such as when the parson Iddy, de-
jectedly sitting himself down on the
grass, says after a silence: “I am a futile
creature.” Fine Shavian humor, too ; as
when, the angel present, the telephone
rings, and the English Public School Pro-
duct, Hyering, takes up the telephone,
turning to the angel with, “Excuse me.”
Also: —:
The Angel: The other languages will
follow. The United States of America will
be tried to-morrow, Australasia next day,
Scotland next, then Ireland
Lady Farwaters: But excuse me: they
do not speak different languages.
The Angel: They sound different to us.
The plays contribute notably to this Vale
of Tears: in each of them a man breaks
down and howls. In “The Simpleton”
the Emigration Officer suddenly bursts
into tears; in “The Six” the King
blubbers before the Queen and assembled
warriors; in “The Millionairess” the
weeping’s done by a boxing and tennis
champion. Every bit of the book is
lively reading. The bright personal note
of G.B.S. is still as clear as a silver bell.
Ernest Hemingway has been big-
game hunting, and uses the same for-
mula to tell of it in Green Hills of
Africa (Cape ; Australian price, 135.) that
he used for the bullfighting in Death in
the Afternoon. That is, he strips it of
everything that looks like sentiment, and
records his sensations and what his eyes
see with pure objective frankness. Many
will find it brutal, but few will for-
get it. Twelve years ago Hemingway was
an open invitation to parodists. His
pointless repetitions and strivings after
shock effects in his collection of stories,
In Our Time, were meat for the ribald.
He has made himself into a prose writer
comparable with Shaw in clearness,
lucidity, the art of making every word do
its job. He goes beyond Shaw’s prose
in the tremendous undercurrent power
with which his is charged. It seems to
have a potential explosive strength, like
a charge rammed home in a gun.
In his work generally Hemingway re-
sembles a revolt against the status
that women have in the United States.
He spends his life mostly out of his own
country in places where naked masculine
strength still does things, and in all his
writing he exalts the physical. His is the
bull-moose outlook and manner of writ-
ing. He hasn’t a lot to brag about here:
men with the best of guns have too ob-
viously the advantage over even African
wild animals. On the hunting expedition
are his wife and a white guide, apart
from black trackers. In the book the
wife serves chiefly as a foil of protected
femininity against the masculine physical
triumphs. It is not so good a book as
Death in the Afternoon because it is not
so complete, leaves an impression of
sketchiness. But, if anything, the prose
craftsmanship is even better. It is power-
ful writing. Excellent line-drawing
decorations help the book’s all-round
good looks.
Gustav Janson’s The Old Man’s Corn-
ing (Lovat Dickson and Thompson;
9s. 6d.) is a translated Scandinavian novel
dealing with contemporary life. It goes
to the pack a bit at the end, when the
Old Man does come; an anti-climax
effect in which the author doesn’t
satisfy the expectations he deliberately
evokes. Otherwise it is good story-telling ;
plain, straightforward, with a good plot,
good scenery and an interesting crowd
of characters. The setting is a manor
house estate, property of a once-powerful
figure of the country, a man who mixed
antiquarian excavating with company
promoting. After a company flop he un-
necessarily fled the country to live in
Melbourne, leaving the estate, house and
art treasures in an old flame’s care.
Meanwhile, during his twenty-odd years’
absence he has become locally a
notorious legendary figure. His reputa-
tion hangs as a presence about the estate,
and the plot turns on his sudden return,
the author having assembled at the manor
house the very people the Old Man has
particular reasons, mostly unfavorable,
for wanting to see. There is good drama
in the separate glimpses of these people
waiting apprehensively on the eve of his
return. All the early part of the novel
up to the Old Man’s actual arrival is capi-
tal reading ; after that it’s a sermon on
what’s wrong with the world, the Old
Man, during his exile in Australia having
worked out a solution to these troubles.
Much more meaty than most novels, it
is recommended especially as good,
sound, honest story-telling.
Anyone who can stomach the excit-
ableness, the gush and hysterics will find
a good return for the reading of Beverley
Nichols’s statement of Faith and Oxford
Group testimony, The Fool Hath Said
Cape; Angus and Robertson; 11s. 3d.).
It is reviewed under separate heading.
Genghis Khan: Ralph Fox (Bodley
Head ; 12s. 6d. net). A brisk piece of
historical writing on a period and a
character both really little known. ‘‘Save
for Professor Vladimirtsov’s brilliant
essay, The Life of Chingis Khan....
this is the only book upon the subject in
English based on a study of the original
sources.” Even as to the name, Mr. Fox
assures us, we have been wrong. Though
preaching, apparently for the benefit of a
proletarian audience, Mr. Fox makes
good reading of “this twenty years of
world conquest by an illiterate nomad
who for the best part of his life could
not even have had any conception of the
world he was to conquer.”
The Lord’s Minstrel: Caroline M.
Duncan Jones (Centenary Press ; 3s. 6d.).
So unaffected in style and its narrative
flows so smoothly that most readers will
be unconscious of the very wide range of
records and authorities that had to be
consulted before this biography of St.
Francis of Assisi could be compiled.
Albert Schweitzer, A Biography:
Magnus C. Ratter (Allenson, per Angus
and Robertson; 11s. 3d.). Schweitzer,
who deserted a prosperous European
career as theologian, author, famous
organist and the authority on Bach to
go to Central Africa as a medical mis-
sionary, is acclaimed by his biographer
a saint and one of the greatest of living
men. Jesus, Paul, Bach, Goethe and
Spinoza are Schweitzer’s chief gods. Fie
has written about all of them volumi-
nously (his Bach biography, in French,
runs to five volumes) and with insight.
Coolie: Madelon H. Lulofs (Cassell;
7s. 6d.). Story of a Javanese lad who was
lured to Sumatra to be a contract laborer
on a Dutch plantation. Conditions
amounted virtually to slavery. Ruki,
who signed on for 18 months, was too
proud to return to Java as poor
as he left, so he stayed on the
plantation till he was, for a coolie, an
old man —nearly 50. And when he (or
rather his thrifty wife) made enough
money to return in style he gambled it
all away in one night. The book gives
a remarkably graphic account of coolie
life. It is one of the reasons why the
contract system was abolished.
The Public and Preparatory Schools
Year Book, 1936 (Deane and Sons, Lon-
don ; 10s, 6d. net). Detailed information
regarding hundreds of English schools
with data for many kinds of career—the
navy, army, church, civil service,
colonial services and the professions,
and the conditions of entry.
His Patients Died: Claude Lillingston
(Blackwood ; 7s. 6d.). Not one of those
who are opposed to euthanasia would
hesitate to kill an animal in pain ; and
the sufferings of human beings, who have
further the realisation that all they
can look forward to is perhaps years of
suffering, the sufferings, too, of those
who have to care for them and see their
pain, are infinitely greater. The one
trouble, apart altogether from religious
beliefs, is the huge responsibility legalised
euthanasia would place upon doctors.
Doctor Skooner decided the question for
himself.
He had cut their life short to spare his
patients from what he considered needless
suffering. And he had often acted in this
way, more or less without the formally-
expressed wish of his patients.
But it is an ill-constructed novel, and as
an argument for euthanasia not alto-
gether convincing. The doctor is an
interesting character, but some of his
killings—one of a man, not a patient, he
considers a criminal —hint at what
legalisation might involve.
The Tunnel: Bernhard Kellermann
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Story from which
was made the picture of the same name
(Shadow Shows, 6/5/’36). It roars along
to make a capital pastime novel.
Seven League Boots: Richard Halli-
burton (Bles; 18s. 6d.). Breezy travel
entertainment. The author is so well
thought of for this sort of thing in
America that he was commissioned to
“go anywhere in the world he wished
and write about whatever pleased him.”
By boat, ’plane, elephant and what not
he went. Haiti, Cuba, Russia, Abyssinia,
Turkey knew him, and elsewhere. Every-
where he found lively material. He’s a
good skimmer, with a dash of Ripley.
Memoirs of an Unconventional Soldier :
Major-General J. F. C. Fuller (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson ; 21s. net). The
author has written 25 books, including
standard army works; this, his twenty-
fifth, is his account of the tanks and Tank
Corps in the war. More, it is the story
of the translation of the British Army
into a mechanised force. The book is
so well written that it’s good as general
reading ; a war book by one in a posi-
tion to see the war well and fairly whole.
It bristles with criticisms of the ponder-
ous “heads,” Haig especially, who
opposed tanks. Also, it’s another word
for Churchill, whose historical shares are
continually being raised by such authori-
tative books. Those trying to improve
mechanisation of Australia’s defence are
certain to be heartened by General
Fuller.
Various Verse
The Thrushes.
The thrushes are singing again; I can hear
their delight
Down leaf-littered aisles where the beaded
rain drips from the bushes,
Where autumn’s bright candles burn down to
the edges of night
In cinnamon, scarlet and ashes of gold, hear
the thrushes!
Before the first wattle flings odorous gifts to
the gale,
Before the first snows to the blossoming
almonds belong,
They flute to the early star, luminous, lovely
and pale,
Or herald the dawn with a delicate tribute
of song.
It seems that the singers have chanced on a
secret divine;
For, oh, when the sunset dies low into deso-
late embers,
I guess at a gladness too airily bright to be
mine,
In the magic that mortals forget and the
grey bird remembers.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL
The Love-lyric.
I found it to-day, tattered, frayed and filmed
with a fine grey dust;
Fragments of it fell apart as I read it through
the must.
Sixteen? Seventeen? •• • All of that! May
have been eighteen or so!
It all comes back . . . how thei slim pen flew,
and the letters seemed to glow . . .
These are words that poured from a heart
that swooned on another heart,
Dazed with a passion that swept us up into
a world apart.
Yet both close down on mother-earth, where
words were all too few,
When lips were numb with kisses, and dark
hair drenched with dew!
Passionate and indiscreet! Oh, foolish things
I said!
What does it matter? I meant it then, though
the flame has long been dead;
God knows I meant it, every word —words
that themselves were born
Of stars that shot across the hills where we
lay at the peep of the morn!
I wish I could write like that again. Naked
and unashamed
The stanzas flashed like meteors I had somehow
caught and tamed;
They sang of love —or was it sin? —with all
of the world asleep
And only a man and a moon and a girl, and
stars like a flock of sheep —
Like a flock of shining sheep that strayed
while the shepherd loved and played—
Ay, they stripped the last encumbering stitch
from the bodies of man and maid;
They thrust them into a dim green glade where
flowers waved knee-high,
Drugged with the music of wind and trees,
and never a mortal by.
O verse, you burned into the page till you
frightened thought away;
Till, frenzied, I tore the leaf across, and lost
you till to-day.
When now it lies on my muddled desk, like
a pennant far astream
From the ramparts of an old romance —the
tatter of a dream!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
With a Sheaf of Cream Roses.
In the two holy hours, blue dream, blue fire,
In any cool hour hallowed with the dew,
To match your body dewed with creamy breasts
Take these smooth roses that the long night
through
Trembled like great blonde dewdrops on the
branch.
Take them, beloved, in the holy time
When the curved fields are mooned to floes
of snow,
And flakes of light, new-falling, make them
chime,
When, avalanched with light, the leagues of
hills,
While rapture moulds your body to a swoon,
Are cragged with frozen blue, like icebergs sunk
Deep in the creamy coldness of the moon.
Take them in blue night or blue morning,
When the late glistening moonlight of the
frost
Lingers and sanctifies our round land turning,
As in clear day the wooded night is lost,
Pale gold and brighter gold above the cream,
And gemmed in the blue leafage of the sky
Upon the pale-gold blossom of the sun.
Like bells of dew the skylarks shake and cry.
Receive them, if you will, where earth meets
ocean , ,
Creaming in splendor from the azure deep,
For in their petalled calm a fury lies,
As in your flesh your tiger passions sleep.
To you who have the calm of grass and earth,
But all the sea’s blue fury in your eyes;
To you upon whose flesh of creamy moonlight
Pale gold a memory of sunlight lies,
I send this sheaf of roses and these colors.
That when the cream rose dies, the blue fire
dims, , ,
Remembering me your cool soul may grow
warm, , .. , x r
As sunlight warms the moonlight of your
limbs.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. SIEWART.


mmm
v-. \ >
: : x :■••; *&.' . ' W :: %*h
i=. i <>; 4 ••. . :
■
... v=
.. ;
* • ' lis
*
m
i :
iSiM
A Million A.M.P. Policies
Among Two Million Families
Average of One Family in Two now Protected
HTHE 8,310,000 people of Australia and New Zealand
now carry 1,150,582 life policies with the A. M. P.
Society, which is roughly an average of one to every
eight people, or one to every two families. This is proof
of the thrift and good sense of the people and of the
strength of the largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
The A.M.P. exists for the protection of its members and
their families. If YOU are not a member, lose no time
in becoming one. Ask that an experienced adviser be
sent to tell you how to win the peace of mind that comes
with membership.
Write or ’phone to-day. There will never be a better day
to do it than to-day.
A. M. P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT. Actuary. A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Two Ways
of
Making Money
There are two ways of “making
money.” One is by speculation.
The other is by investing part of
your income.
If you speculate you must be prepared
to take the risks inseparable from this
form of money-making, including the risk
of losing part, or even the whole, of your
capital. Even a successful speculator
makes a loss sometimes.
Now, suppose you should happen to die
just when you’ve made a loss perhaps a
heavy one—what arrangements have you
made for the amount of the loss to be
made good to your estate? If you have
not made such arrangements, you are
carrying, in addition to the risks of specu-
lation which you can’t avoid, the risk of
dying just when your capital has been
reduced. That risk is always present, but
you can eliminate it by effecting a policy
on your life with a sound Office, like the
A.M.P. By this you secure an Asset which
will be extremely useful to you in your
business life, and perhaps invaluable to
your estate when you die.
Can you be sure that there will never
be a slump in the property in which you
have invested, an improvement in the
patents you have backed, a strike, a lock-
out, a trade war, a rate war, an inter-
national war—or any of those thousand
and one events which may adversely affect
your personal interest's?
You cannot.
Therefore, you need Life Assurance as
a stand-by and as a means of making
good the money which you, like thou-
sands before you, and through no fault
of your own, may have the misfortune to
lose.
If you prefer to invest part of your
income, your chief concern is to find
investments which will provide (a) re-
munerative return, (b) security of capital,
(c) freedom from depreciation.
There are not many of these, as every
investor knows. Millions of pounds, as
we all know, have been lost during recent
years in what were regarded as absolutely
“safe” securities.
Nevertheless, your money cannot re-
main idle; every pound has the latent
capacity for making another. If you set
aside a portion of your income for invest-
ment every year, you call to your aid that
law which governs the accumulation of
money and the aggregation of wealth—
the law of Compound Interest.
Under this law, your savings are bound
to accumulate, provided the investments
you choose either remain constant in
value or appreciate. If, however, they
should depreciate, you will be losing
money instead of making it.
This forms an unanswerable argument
for putting part of your annual savings
into an Endowment Assurance Policy.
Such a policy assures to you the bene-
fits of compound interest on your money; I
and you have at least one investment
which must appreciate every year.
An Endowment Assurance Policy in a
good Office, such as the A.M.P., will gen-
erally give a Compound Interest return
ranging from 3 % upwards on the pre-
miums paid. But that is not all: it gives
you Life Assurance in addition.
This means that if you live, you get a
good return for your investment; while if
you die, your estate is increased by a
larger sum than would be possible under
any other method of saving.
Whether you live or die, your money
works for you, and you are relieved of
the trouble of looking after it.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
n
7
rz
>JO%
m
K* mim
A
11
H
m
£ y i
mm
m
HI
■
m
m
Hi
■
■
i
■
H
'■mm.
:
Excellent View of Interior of One of the Many Large Storage Cellars.
e 4 tfcfit tf’ui'ie mellmmeUandlmiq/Uet


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2938.
June 3, 1936.
OTHERWISE OCCUPIED.
" Dr Pa S e disgustedly reports that ‘Australia’s magnificent tariff gesture’ has been coolly received by British Minister Runciman and has been wasted on newspapers, which
convey the impression that Britain is at the head of the Little Entente or the Central European bloc.’”
“Good gracious, he isn’t interested!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne. ,
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Larnbton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AUSTRALIA SECOND.
During the long debates on cement duties Australians
heard a great deal from the Lyons Government about
the importance of the Tariff Board in its scheme of
things. The Tariff Board, it seemed, inquired into
all applications for increase or decrease of duties and
issued reports to which the Government paid an
almost religious respect. At Ottawa the Government
had signed an undertaking that it would adopt every
British-preferential-tariff cut recommended by the
Tariff Board ; this was so precise that if the Tariff
Board recommended abolition of the duty on any
British article (or the duties on all) and Parliament
reduced it 50 p.c. instead, it would be “a breach of
the Ottawa agreement.” And much more to the
same effect.
These solemn professions were forgotten when,
on the last day of “the tariff session,” the Minister
for Trade Treaties, who has never negotiated a trade
treaty, brought in “amendments” designed in a char-
acteristically muddled fashion to transfer a bit of the
Australian market to Australian manufacturers and a
lot to British manufacturers at the expense of Japan
and the United States. Mr. Gregory, one of the
veterans of the House, has suggested that these
“amendments” constitute, not merely an alleged breach
of a politicians’ agreement, but an actual breach of
a Commonwealth enactment.
The Tariff Board Act provides that the Minister for
Customs shall not take any action in respect of the
necessity for any new, increased or reduced duties until
he has received a report from the Tariff Board. Unless
this has been done, the tabling of these proposals
is illegal.
And certainly the Tariff Board has not reported on
the necessity for mammoth increases in the duties
on Japanese artificial-silk and cotton piece goods, the
introduction of a licensing system or the limitation
and taxation of imports of American motor chassis.
If there was no illegality, which is at least doubtful,
there was wild inconsistency. And Mr. Gregory is
unassailably right when he contends that “nothing
should have stood in the way of continuing the sit-
tings of Parliament until the proposals had been dealt
with—Parliament alone should bear the responsibility
of this grave economic departure.”
Mr. Curtin has effectively elaborated the same
point. The Labor leader has said other things with
which a great many Australians who are not sup-
porters of his party will agree—that, the drain on
overseas funds being what it is, “changing the source
of imports from one country to another is of little
value” ; that “it is unwise to quarrel with the U.S.A.
or Japan over trade relationships,” and that “the
Government should have treated the world as a
common entity, with preference to the United King-
dom, based on our kinship with it.” His objection
to “the enormous bureaucratic authority” which
licensing will add to the enormous bureaucratic
authority already exercised is equally pertinent.
The protective items in the new schedule will,
Mr. Gullett asserts, add “£845,000 sterling” to annual
value of Australian factory output. They are wel-
come to those who will benefit, but at least some of
them seem to have been included as an afterthought.
Probably the cement-duty rumpus convinced the
Government that it would be necessary to sugar-coat
the pill or to increase the sugar content of the coat.
Tobacco-leaf duties have been substantially increased,
though the Government for years had a stereotyped
reply to requests for such increases—Australian-
grown tobacco, a trifling percentage excepted, was no
good.
The changes affecting Father Bull will put
£1,310,000 sterling into manufacturers’ pockets.
At least, that is Mr, Gullett’s estimate; Dr. Page
is reported to have told Father that “Australia’s
magnificent tariff gesture” would enrich him by
£3,000,000, and to have been annoyed because Mr.
Runciman, the President of the Board of Trade, did
not turn handsprings when the news was conveyed
to him. Mr. Runciman’s own estimate is that the
present will be worth £1,500,000, if duly delivered.
Perhaps his apparent ingratitude is the result of a
belief that its value will be less than tuppence if the
Japanese retaliate by suspending or curtailing their
purchases of Australian wool, wheat and flour. This
is a distinct and most unpleasant possibility, even if
reports from Tokio as to the intentions of the Gov-
ernment or of this or that association of importers
are dismissed. The Japanese are intensely proud, and
are swift to avenge what they regard as injuries to
their nation. Canada had a trade war with them in
the Bennett Government’s time. It was the Canadians
who backed out.
For ten months of 1935-36 Australian exports of
wool and sheepskins were valued at £50,660,000,
total Australian commodity exports being valued at
£107,191,000. The sheepmen deserve well of the seven
Australian Governments, and have received nothing
from them but sky-high taxes and service charges.
What right has the Lyons Government to cloud the
fair prospect of full wool sales at profitable prices, and
risk a stunning check to national recovery, in order
that £1.500,000 of trade may be transferred to an
unappreciative Bull? We never see the Old Man
making any “magnificent tariff gesture” to Australia.
Before and after Ottawa he concluded trade agree-
ments with Argentina, Denmark and Russia, and he
buys from these countries pyramids of goods that
Australia could supply. This is how his annual
accounts with them stood at the end of 1935;
British Imports British Exports
from. to.
Soviet Russia .. .. £21,753,509 £3,505,240
Denmark 32,037,485 13,764,922
Argentina 43,994,866 15,262,921
The Lyons Government is sliding to a fall. It
has got into the habit of putting Australia second,
and Australia must have Governments that put
it first. If Labor can get rid of its Old Man of
the Sea, Mr. Curtin may lead such a Government.
In its present temper the country would prefer another
Government from the U.A.P. and U.C.P. benches, with
Mr. Stewart or Mr. Hawker as leader. Surely Cabinet-
making timber on the Ministerial side was not
exhausted when the “Australia Second” combination
was slung together.
“CONTROL” AND THE CONSTITUTION.
A Mildura (Vic.) man puts the case for growers
of dried fruits;
The phrase “absolutely free” is the bone of contention
in the proceedings before the Privy Council. Quick and
Garran are quoted as stating that “absolutely free” means
“perfect freedom,” giving the trader “the right to travel (in
order to sell) unburdened by State restrictions, regulations or
obstructions.” Your case has been built on these quotations.
We build our case on the same foundations.
Section 92 of the Constitution follows in sequence a
number of sections dealing with customs duties between
the States, and to the lay mind and many legal minds the
words “trade between the States shall be absolutely free”
mean nothing more or less than this: “Trade.... between the
States shall be absolutely free of customs duties, existing or
future, which may be applied by the States.” Quick and
Garran confirm this in the paragraph quoted.
Now the restrictions complained of by James are restric-
tions imposed by the Commonwealth. The inter-State trading
license under which dried-fruits dealers operate is a Com-
monwealth license issued in the States by boards operating
as agents for the Commonwealth.
Section 51 of the Constitution gives the Commonwealth
the right to regulate trade between the States —a right granted
to the Commonwealth by the States and accepted and applied
by the Commonwealth to various industries. Now one dried-
fruits dealer seeks to break down that right and power by
pressing for a legal definition of “absolute freedom” con-
venient to his purpose.
Leaving the legal argument aside, it is well that your
readers should have a clear picture of the case. Australian
States have decided that our inland spaces, particularly lands
adjacent to waterways, should be settled and made productive.
The raisin industry has been proved a suitable industry for the
Murray Valley: and 50,000 acres of land have been planted
to vines.
The produce gives a living, directly and indirectly, to
approximately 25,000 people. Eighty p.c. is exported, entering
into competition with fruit from Mediterranean countries and
Persia, where labor is bought for Is. to Is. 6d. per day, or
with Californian fruit, produced mainly by black or other
colored labor under conditions somewhat similar to those in
the Levant.
If our vineyardists and workers are to maintain a decent
standard of living, some form of protection is necessary. In
our export markets this is given by preferential tariffs; in
Australia by customs duties. But it has been proved over and
over again that customs duties are ineffective unless industry
is organised to take advantage of the duties; and so the
dried-fruits growers are organised.
This has involved the Federal Government, and it has
granted rights to regulate trade so that a fair price can be
secured for our fruit in Australia. If an “Australian stan-
dard” of living is good enough for our manufacturers and
workers protected by tariff walls and Arbitration Court awards,
surely it is fair to extend the same right to the primary pro-
ducer. Or is it the desire of our dealers and merchants and
workers that the primary producer shall be the chopping block,
forced to accept a standard of life like that of the peasants
of Persia, Turkey and Greece? If such is their policy and
plan, then it will be a sad day for our fruitgrower and dairy-
farmer when an adverse decision is given by the Privy Council.
Ninety-eight per cent, of the fruitgrowers in Australia sup-
port the existing legislation. Inter-State trade is carried on
by the sellers of 98 p.c. of the fruit without complaint or
difficulty. One small dealer with 2 p.c. of the fruit can raise
this mountain of trouble and concern and can endeavor to
disorganise and disrupt the trade and living of a well-conducted
industry. It is a remarkable demonstration of the tolerant
and law-abiding nature of our communities.
James wants to sell all his fruit in Australia under protec-
tive conditions, but in doing so he is only forcing export
conditions on his neighbor. In this attitude he cuts across
the basic principle on which stability is maintained in our
industry—an equal share of the protected home market for
every grower.
If Australia wants the dried-fruits industry to flourish on
export parity standards, is it willing to allow the fruitgrowers
export standards of production? This would mean importing
indentured labor that will work for Is. 6d. a day. In that
case, we will not ask for customs tariffs or trade treaties;
we will give Australia fruit at export prices. And one day
Australia will pay the difference —with Australia.
Section 51 gives the Commonwealth Parliament
“power to make laws for the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth” with respect to: —•
(1) Trade and commerce with other countries and
among the States, and
(XXXVII) Matters referred to the Parliament of
the Commonwealth by the Parliament or Parliaments of
any State or States, but so that the law shall extend
only to States by whose Parliaments the matter is referred
or which afterwards adopt the law.
In respect of the dried-fruits legislation there has
been no such reference to the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment by the Parliaments of Westralia and Tasmania ;
the Governments of those States have, in fact, inter-
vened in the dried-fruits case against the Common-
wealth Government, There is nothing else in the
section even remotely bearing on the assertion that
it “gives the Commonwealth the right to regulate
trade between the States,” Nor, in The Bulletin’s
opinion, is there anything in the section which can
be fairly construed to mean that it authorises Parlia-
ment to strike out of the Constitution, in contempt
of the section (128) which says that “this Constitution
shall not be altered except” by laws ratified by the
people (“a majority of the electors voting and a major-
ity of the States”), the section (92) which says “Trade,
commerce and intercourse among the States, whether
by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free.”
The Bulletin, of course, agrees that “our vine-
yardists and workers” are entitled to “a decent stand-
ard of living,” and knows that they attained it long
before the dried-fruits legislation was thought of.
That it can be preserved only by sacrificing inter-
state Freetrade —abrogating citizens’ rights hardly won,
with the serious political consequences it would entail
—this paper simply refuses to believe.
AIR DEVELOPMENT—AND TWO JARRING
NOTES.
In Melbourne recently a visiting American aviation
expert passed some candid remarks about Australian
airports. “I’ve seen better in China,” he said.
Premier Dunstan was unfortunately absent in
Canberra in search of loan money, or he would doubt-
less have pointed out the advantages of Essendon.
No such interruption being forthcoming, the out-
spoken visitor continued: —
The reservoir at Essendon and the slope of the
ground are bound to cause an accident there some day.
Major Bertrandias went on to say that while flying
over Melbourne in the Douglas airliner he had set
himself, unasked and unprompted, to select the best
location for a Melbourne airport. Having made his
choice, he pointed to it and said, in the manner of
Batman, “That is the logical place for an airport.”
His fellow-passengers looked down. He was
pointing to Fisherman’s Bend, the site which every-
one who knows anything at all about flying has been
urging Mr. Dunstan to set aside for that purpose
without overcoming his incomprehensible opposition.
A few days after the major had spoken the
Minister for Defence approached Mr. Dunstan in
Canberra and impressed upon him “the fact that the
Federal Ministry is definitely in favor of an airport
at Fisherman’s Bend.”
Mr. Dunstan, fresh from a Loan Council meet-
ing with a promise of £3,427,000 loan money, a special
grant of £137,000 and permission to borrow £800,000
for semi-Governmental bodies, was evidently caught
in a generous mood: anyway, he agreed to consider
the Commonwealth Government’s representations.
It has been suggested that this accidental Premier’s
attitude is a matter of tactics —that he ultimately
intends to concede the point, but is holding it as
a bargaining weapon for use during the coming
session. This is making a question of national im-
portance a pawn in the shifty game of party politics.
Of course, even the blind policy of Governments
like that of Mr. Dunstan cannot hold up Australian
air development for long. On all sides are to be seen
striking proofs of the growing air-mindedness of
Australia.
Regular air routes in the Commonwealth now cover
nearly 17,000 miles, and 70,000 miles are flown every
week. Holymans’ Douglas airliner has established
new speed records between Melbourne and Laun-
ceston flying with full loads on ordinary routine
flights.
Details of a merger which will combine the
interests of Holymans’ and Adelaide Airways and
will be supported by important British and Australian
shipping companies to the tune of £500,000 have been
announced. The new company proposes to operate
fast services between all the capital cities and prob-
ably a trans-Tasman service also.
The success of the Empire air-mail is evidenced
by the doubling of the service and the promised reduc-
tion of the time of the journey to seven days. Carriage
of all inter-capital mail by air is projected; also
carriage of mails and passengers to and from the
Philippines and the Asian continent. In short, air
transport seems about to boom. Which brings us
to a second jarring note.
Mr. Clapp, the Victorian Railways Commissioner,
in an after-dinner speech, announced that he was
ready to run an air service in Australia the moment
any Government was in favor of it. He said further:
I think a Government should be able to run an air
service. A Government could provide ground organi-
sation more quickly than private enterprise.
This simple statement conjures up visions. Visions
of six Airways Departments to “regulate” intra-State
traffic (the Sydney Government is fighting a High
Court case on the “principle” that the Common-
wealth has no right to “regulate” intra-State traffic
in N. S. Wales); of Six State Airways staffs, rapidly
growing and rivalling in number the State railway
employees; of six lots of air experts visiting Europe
and America in search of “experience” ; and, assur-
edly, of six Air Strangulation Boards, appointed to
strangle all the lusty infant companies already operat-
ing and to stifle all future infants at birth.
No, Mr. Clapp ; it won’t do! Government con-
trol of aviation is necessary—that is,- control by one
Government, not seven ; but the hand of the Govern-
ment should stop there.
The motor transport industry has been hobbled
and shackled in the interests of Government railways.
The mistake must not be repeated in the air.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
National Insurance.
If the Stewart section has its way, national insurance
will be on the next U.A.P.-U.C.P. election programme.
Two English experts are being brought out by
the Commonwealth Government, They will find a
mass of data already prepared for them by depart-
mental and actuarial investigation, and it is hoped
to have a workable scheme suited to Australian con-
ditions drawn up before the end of the year.
Bruce-Page produced one in 1928. The main
provisions were;
(1) Establishment of a fund to be derived from a
contribution of a shilling a week from each male
worker and sixpence a week from each female worker,
supplemented by equivalent contributions from em-
ployers and the Commonwealth.
(2) Sickness and disablement allowances ranging up
to 275. 6d. a week for adult males, 20s. a week for adult
females and 15s. for minors; after six months’ continu-
ous sickness, the benefit to become automatically a dis-
ablement allowance of 20s. a week all round.
(3) A child allowance of ss. a week for each child
(under 16) of an insured person drawing sickness or dis-
ablement allowance.
(4) Widows’ and orphans’ allowances of 20s. and ss.
a week —invalid and war pensions to be left outside the
scheme.
(5) A marriage allowance of up to £4 for an insured
girl.
(6) Insured persons to become entitled to old-age
pensions of £1 a week at the present pensions ages of
65 for males and 60 for females.
(7) Contributors to be divided into compulsory and
voluntary sections. All workers receiving under £416
a year to be compulsory contributors. Voluntary sub-
scribers to be those who elect to subscribe and also
those who, having ceased by increased income to be
entitled to insurance, elect to remain on a voluntary basis.
Administration to be by a board.
Politically the Lyons Government needs a
national-insurance policy. The nation needs it to
put an end to the present system of free pensions,
which has grown to unmanageable proportions. At
present more than half a million Australians are
receiving war, invalid or old-age pensions. Old-age
and invalid pensions will cost £13,000,000 this finan-
cial year, compared with £2,216,000 in 1913 and
£8,863,000 in 1926. Pensions now represent 34 p.c.
of Federal expenditure.
It Goes a Long Way There.
Politicians who think that a trade of £1,000,000 in
cotton piece goods and £2,000,000 in silks and rayons
is not important to Japan should think again.
In Japanese Budgets loan expenditure is always
included. The 1934-35 total was 2,112,133,000 yen, or
about £150,866,000 Australian, including £22,678,000
of borrowed money. Out of this £74,000,000 was
spent on the army, air force and navy. Civil
government cost considerably less than the ordinary
expenditure of Australia’s six States in a normal year
(in 1933-34 the amount was £112,298,700, which, of
course, included debt charges and working expenses
of railways and tramways), and the expenditure on
defence was equivalent to the consolidated revenue
of the Commonwealth for 1933-34, £73,941,900.
This year the estimates provide for the biggest
Budget in history, £173,000,000 Australian, the increase
being due to a determination to secure naval parity
with Britain and U.S.A. and to strengthen the air
force and army substantially.
The mystery of how these things are done is solved
by a glimpse at salary lists, as given in the Japan
Year-Book {1935). The Prime Minister gets 9600
yen p.a. (say, £720 Australian), Ministers of State
6800 yen (£495), ambassadors, governors-general and
the President of the Privy Council 6600 yen. The
ambassador to Britain has a service allowance which
brings his total payment to about £2700 p.a., which
is a little more than half of what is paid to Australia’s
High Commissioner, who has all expenses met as
well, and these days functions mostly at Geneva. The
pay of the Consul-General in Australia is £348, plus
iAll service allowance.
The national debt of Japan last year was reckoned
at £528,000,000 Australian (Australia’s has reached
£1,255,154,000). Taxes and duties yielded 848,845,000
yen (£60,600,000), the rest of the Japanese revenue
coming from profits on State enterprises and minor
sources. So if £3,000,000 is a bagatelle to Australian
politicians, the Japanese necessarily have other views.
A. E. Moore Resigns.
Queensland is the one State which has never had a
serious Labor split. On the other hand, no other
State has had such a confusion of parties and leader-
ship, outside Labor.
After the rout of Digby Denham and his fol-
lowers in 1915, there was a plethora of Opposition
parties and organisations: a National Federation, a
National Political Council, “Liberals,” Soldiers’
parties, the Country party and the Northern
C.P. Victory at the 1917 Federal election stabilised
things a bit, and gradually a so-called Country
Progressive National party was evolved. Mean-
while, E. H. Macartney, who led 23 Assemblymen
in a House of 72, made way for William Vowles,
and Vowles —like Macartney, a lawyer—made way
for A. E. Moore. Moore was a sunny, good-natured
Maoriland-born farmer, and everybody concerned
was ready to give him a chance.
The chance came in 1929, when Queensland had
grown tired of the Continuous Government, in its
latest phase led by Bill McCormack. But the Moore
Government’s depression measures proved highly
unpopular, and out it went after one term. Three
more years of undistinguished Labor rule gave it
another chance in 1932, for Labor had had a majority
of only four votes, including the Speaker’s, though
a redistribution wiping out country electorates
promised to give it another one or two. But when
Moore’s election policy was announced his supporters
were aghast to discover that its central feature was
a motherhood endowment scheme under which
employers were to collect ss. a week from childless
workers, married as well as single, and hand it to the
Government to be parcelled out among parents with
children. Naturally the childless, as well as thousands
of employers, voted Labor.
Of 19 metropolitan seats, the Country Progs,
won three. They were beaten in all the country-town
electorates. Only 17 Country Progs, came back,
leaving the Forgan Smiths able to do as they like.
Now the C.P.N. organisation is no more, a
Country party has shot up again (there are also Young
Nationalists and the makings of a U.A.P.), and Moore
has “cleared the way” by resigning. He calls himself
Country party now, as also does his successor as Oppo-
sition-leader, E. B. Maher. The outlook for Mr. Maher
seems rather bleak. Still, if there is any leadership
in him many Queenslanders will respond, for they
are as tired of Forgan Smith’s transport policy, deficits
and wanderings as they are of what they have hitherto
had good cause to regard as his opponents’ infinite
and unchanging futility.
Milking the Post Office.
During the 1934-35 financial year the Post Office
reported a profit of £1,700,000. This was used, not to
provide a better service or to reduce charges—which,
taken all round, are the highest in the Empire—but
for bloating general revenue, being hurried down the
bottomless sink of Federal extravagance.
Figures for ten months to the end of April
showed postal revenue at £12,304,662 —about £BOO,OOO
greater than for the same ten months of 1934-35.
The 1935-36 profit will probably exceed £2,000,000.
If it has its way the Ministry will put this surplus
“down south” also, and apply it to the cost of royal
commissions, trips abroad, contributions to the League
of Nations and other tomfooleries. If the public
gives some unmistakable sign that it wants reduced
postal charges, the P.O. surplus will be put to a
legitimate businesslike purpose.
Half of the current surplus would more than
cover the loss caused by reversion to postage.
The letter-rate was increased to 2d. in 1930 when
the financial position was desperate. By June 30
there will have been five successive Federal surpluses
aggregating £10,000,000 or more. The letter-rate in
Maoriland and South Africa is Id., and Britain is
proposing to carry all Empire letters by air at Ud.,
without surcharge.
Although a Federal concern, the Post Office
recognises inter-State barriers. Why a telegram should
be sent across a whole State at a cheaper rate
than between two border towns only a few miles
away is one of the mysteries of postal administra-
tion, unless it is assumed that revenue advantage
is the sole consideration.
The community should insist on the postal surplus
being used for postal purposes. For years the Post
Office has been employed as a crude taxing machine,
and Australians have been charged shamefully high
rates to provide money for the Canberra Government
to spend in other ways.
No More Government Ships.
Once more the suggestion has been put forward
that the Commonwealth Government should run a
shipping service across Bass Strait in order to main-
tain “adequate connection” between Tasmania and
the mainland.
This time the idea is that the Government should
“take over” the ships at present conducting the run.
Delegates from all over Tasmania voted for it at a
conference in Launceston.
There is no doubt that Tasmania has in the past
suffered considerably through the operations of the
Navigation Act, but with the lifting of the coastal
clauses it experienced last summer a shipping and
tourist boom. Mail steamers and other large over-
seas vessels visited Hobart and gave the wharves and
the city a degree of bustle it had almost forgotten
was possible. Burnie, on the n.-w. coast, was also
made a mailboat port of call during the tourist season.
The Bass Strait air service, which had met with
serious setbacks in the loss of two of its ’planes, has
lately been augmented by the addition of a Douglas
airliner, and the telephone cable is another sign that
Tasmania is no longer the neglected Cinderella its
citizens like to imagine.
The existing passenger-and-mail service out of
Melbourne provides three trips a week in summer
and two in winter to Launceston, and two trips a week
summer and winter to Burnie and Devonport. One
of the vessels, the Nairana, is admittedly past her first
youth, but the Taroona is almost new and, for her
size, very comfortable. The latter is at present out
of commission following upon an accident, but another
vessel has temporarily taken her place.
There is also a weekly passenger boat from
Hobart to Sydney, and there are regular and frequent
cargo sailings to and from most Australian ports.
This is the winter schedule. When the summer
comes the overseas ships will again be making frequent
calls from Melbourne and Sydney, and the Common-
wealth would have to compete with them for pas-
sengers, as the existing service had to last summer.
Tasmanians are often accused of sleepiness, but
surely Launceston delegates must have known that
the Commonwealth Government had already tried its
hand at shipowning and lost the equivalent of half
the Tasmanian State debt.
After All, They’re Australians!
The Urbenville and Woodenbong area in northern
N. S. Wales regards Brisbane as its commercial centre.
No other is practicable on account of the mountains
and the layout of the road system. Queensland’s
Strangulation Board has twice refused to register a
commercial truck service over the Queensland portion
of the roads. The Urbenville people assert that no
other route can provide an adequate service for their
needs, and that refusal of permission to use it on
payment of the charges authorised by Queensland
transport legislation constitutes a denial to them of
their rights as Commonwealth citizens, and therefore
a breach of the Federal Constitution,
The contention may be questioned ; but one thing
is certain. Transport in all its forms will have to be
placed under Commonwealth control.
Labor Goes Fishing Again.
On July 1 Queensland Labor is to embark upon
another attempt to provide Brisbane with cheaper
fish and fishermen with better returns. A previous
Labor Government tried it; the experiment crashed
in 1921, with a loss of £36,012 of taxpayers’ money.
A joint-stock company of fishermen then took over
the marketing business and the market retail shop,
and has carried on at a profit. Profits are dangerous
things to show when socialist politicians are around.
The Fish Supply Management Act was passed
last November. It sets up a Fish Board, com-
prising two Government clerks —one is chairman, with
the usual casting vote —-one representative of the
distributors and one fishermen’s representative, with
powers which will enable the board to compete with
fishermen and distributors.
The supply area of the Brisbane market extends
from the Clarence River (N.S.W.) to Gladstone (C.Q.).
Under the new arrangement, all fish must pass through
the market before it can reach the consumer. Save
for a few unimportant exceptions of seaside suburbs,
this means that the 400,000 or so people in the distri-
bution area cannot possibly get fresh fish for break-
fast. The fisherman’s chances of better returns are
not improved by the fact that the board has a com-
plete monopoly of both buying and selling. He has
no choice of agents, no advantages of selling-com-
petition. He ranks as a “primary producer” ; but
unlike other “primary producers” in “controlled”
industries he has no say in marketing his product.
There are not enough fishermen to carry any political
weight.
Fish is still regarded as a luxury diet in Brisbane,
as elsewhere in Australia. Brisbane sales have declined
steadily since 1928. There are definite indications
that the Moreton Bay grounds, from which the prin-
cipal Brisbane supplies are drawn, are becoming fished
out. Unsuitable and illegal methods, over which no
effective control is exercised, are depleting the supply
of mullet—which constitutes 70 p.c. of total sales —
and the same causes are operating against the
autumnal harvests of sea-mullet.
The co-operative system of marketing and sales
had its faults. A political-clerical system is capable
of infinitely worse faults. Operated on scientific
rather than political lines, it could be made to confer
immense benefits by developing and conserving
an important source of food supply and building up
new industries from sea products. Perhaps, by some
miracle, the Queensland Fish Board may include the
brains and outlook required for such a desirable out-
come. But, on present indications, the new project looks
much more like a second innings of the sort of
Government trading which came to a disastrous end
in 1921.
What’s Wrong in Palestine? *
“G.D.” thinks he knows:
The fundamental grievance of the Arabs is that they do
not want to see Palestine turned into a “national home for
the Jews.”
Zionists claim that Palestine was historically a Jewish
country, and was returned to them by Mr. Balfour. However,
its history goes back to 2500 8.c., when the land was settled
by Semites from Arabia, and over the period of 4436 years
(from 2500 b.c. to a.d. 1936) Jewish rule (Hebrew monarchy,
kingdom of Israel and kingdom of Judah) lasted less than 400
years. The Arabs captured Jerusalem in a.d. 646, and have
been there ever since.
Before the war Jews and Arabs lived in Palestine in fairly
friendly and neighborly harmony. These Arabs are still willing
to share Palestine with Palestinian Jews, but they are not keen
on sharing it with American and European Jews.
Twenty years ago the Jews in Palestine were only 10 per
cent, of the population. Ten years ago they were 15 per cent.;
to-day they are 30 per cent.; by 1946 they may be 50 per
cent. The Arabs want Palestine to remain Oriental, but the
Jews intensify the authority of British Imperialism—and the
Arabs dream of independence.
Of course there is a great deal to be said for the Jews.
The fact that Palestine is fairly prosperous is due to the influx
of Jewish capital and labor. The wages of Arab workers in
Palestine are five times as high as wages in Egypt, and twice as
high as wages in Syria. Palestine Arabs no longer emigrate, but
Arabs from Syria, Transjordan and Egypt flock into Palestine—
though not as numerously as the Jews. Palestine was a malarial
country, but the Jews have reclaimed a great deal of swamp
land, and they contribute more than 60 per cent, of the
tax-revenue.
As for government, there is a British High Commissioner,
who exercises executive powers, in conjunction with an Execu-
tive Council, and legislative authority, conferring with an
Advisory Council before promulgating ordinances. This
Council was originally composed of an equal number of
official and non-official members; the latter included four
Moslems, three Christians and three Jews. In 1923 efforts
were made to introduce a Legislative Council. This scheme
was boycotted by the Arabs, and the Advisory Council
had to be revived, but Arab leaders refused to serve on it.
So the Advisory Council is composed entirely of official
members.
Clearly, government by majority in Palestine and the
theory of a Jewish national home will not mix. The Arabs are
really unwilling to accept the principles of the Mandate, and
have rejected the proposed new (institution just as heartily as
they rejected the proposed Constitution of 1922.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Becks”; Modern education? I was
telling a school-teacher acquaintance
about my holiday in Tasmania. She was
politely interested, and when I had
finished she inquired “Do they have the
same currency down there as we do in
A ustralia ?” I don’t know what she
teaches, but I hope it’s nothing more
serious than botany.
* * * *
“Lekas”: Every year sees a new record
in transmitting the Derby result over the
cables. The news of Mahmoud’s win
was received at Eastern Extension’s Syd-
ney office six seconds after he passed the
post. It went in two seconds to New
York, Buenos Ayres and Cape Town,
three to Montreal, four to Cairo and five
to Shanghai.
❖ * *
“Puntah”: Sydney’s “Sunday Sun” has
been running a series of articles record-
ing the career of a super-punter, allegedly
the “talk of the town.” The gentleman,
it seems, has a habit of carrying
round £lOOO notes instead of smaller
ones, so that gangsters, etc., will
not harry him owing to the difficulty of
cashing these notes. Actually, there are
no such things in circulation. About 25
years ago some were issued, but they
were later withdrawn and are now used
only between banks. It looks as if “The
Man in the Boxer Hat” has been talk-
ing through it.
* * * *
“St. Kilda”: A game like “housie-
housie” has become so popular in
Melbourne that its legality has been
questioned. It is variously styled
“skill-ball,” “box-ball” and “fascina-
tion.” Numbered cards are used as
in “housie,” but instead of numbers
being drawn each player is given four
balls to throw into numbered boxes in
front of him. Numbers so scored are
marked off on his card. Then the real
game commences. Each player is given
in turn an extra ball to throw at his set of
boxes, and the number so scored may be
marked off any player’s card, as in
“housie.” First player to mark off a
complete row of five numbers collects
the pool. Skill or luck? The High Court
will decide.
% ❖ * *
“Kwakprak”: A Brisbane ambulance
car dashed up to the assistance of a man
who had fallen in the street, and under
the focused headlights an attendant diag-
nosed a fractured knee. “Too right, it’s
fractured,” said the patient, pulling up
his trouser-leg ; “but lend us a hammer
and a couple of nails and I’ll be all right.”
It was an artificial leg, whose knee spring
had broken. For once the ambulance
outfit proved inadequate for first aid, but
a lorry-driver did the necessary job with
his tool kit and a piece of an old file,
bringing the limb back into perfect con-
dition and functioning. A grateful patient
thereupon hopped up, and took the home
track as good as new.
* * * *
“Ad.”: Adelaide Hospital has returned
fo his home, for convalescence, a man of
24 with a genuinely broken neck. Since
an awful motor smash in October, he
has been the subject of surgical confer-
ences ; and now, though of course not
cured, he is expected to live, as a triumph
for the doctors.
* =i= * *
“Fi. Fa.”: A will with which Queens-
land Supreme Court has had to deal con-
sisted of a handful of charred paper sal-
vaged from the burned house in which
the testator met his death. Among other
“Beg pardon, sir, but could I borrow
your ceremonial uniform for the
fancy-dress ball?”
unusua l wills before the Court have been
one scribbled on an envelope, some on
tattered scraps of paper, a number in
various foreign languages, some be-
queathing money to buy a rope where-
with the legatee might hang himself, and
a codicil to the will of a once-famous
judge who had forgotten to sign it. There
is no legal necessity for wills to be in
any particular language or wording or
an y S p ec j a j kind of paper. All the
c ourt wan ts are a clear expression Of the
wishes of t fi e testator and satisfactory
p roo f that the provisions of the law con-
cernjnq its execution have been complied
w j tk
‘, * *
« S T ‘ S ». A recent Act of Parliament
restore( j SO me,of the very old place-
names s a., changed in the war-time
bitterness> Xhere was a strong belief
tbat the new generation, having grown
up un< j er tbe new name, would refuse
to & j ter - t bac k, gut at “Ambleside,” in
the hills behind Adelaide, the town band,
hospital and football and tennis clubs
h ave ; cheerfully accepted the ancestral
“Hahndorf, even though the Crown
Solicitor rules that any
“organisation or institution is outside
tf> e A ct and can do as pleases-
* * * *
“Bainkleider : Thank the L°ixf, 1 can
now put on plus-fours, again! The first
time I saw them worn in Australia was
by two haughty persons, now rear-
admirals on Mediterranean service, who
paraded valiantly through the heart or
Jervis Bay to a chorus of mysterious
whistles and catcalls which they wisely
decided to ignore. Two years afterwards
I wore a pair on a Sydney beach, and
made a hurried exit out of the gale of
sotto voce persiflage. But within three
months of that p.-fs. were de rigueur even
with the most scornful of the proletariat,
for a gang of large, beefy professional
leather-hunters arrived wearing them to a
man. They have since had an eclipse,
but a Rugby League team, just landed,
is popularising them once more.
“El V.”: Harold Gatty’s remark to
Sydney business girls that he had “abso-
lutely no time for the woman pilot” is
but an echo of the advice which used to
be given to students in the old horse days
by the instructor in driving at a well-
known agricultural college: “If y’are
passing a buggy, hold y’r reins tight an’
be careful. If y’are passing a bullock-
waggon, hold 'em tighter and be blanky
careful. If y’see a woman driving —get
off the flaming road.”
St * * *
“Findy”: Mention of joyful errors
caused by dropped lino, slugs (B.
6/5/’36) reminds me of one in the Adel-
aide “Advertiser.” In a cabled report of
the signing of the Anglo-Irish treaty
Michael Collins was made to say:
For our part we are prepared to stand
by the terms of the treaty and cycle along
King William-road, North Adelaide, to
carry them out in the letter and spirit.
I was very young when I read it, but
even then I was impressed by the lengths
to which the Irish leader was prepared
to go.
* * * =i=
“Captain Pintle”: Captain Hill, master
of the Sydney pilot steamer Captain
Cook, has undergone perhaps the most
nerve-trying experience which can befall
a master mariner—that of having to
decide on the instant between a minority
and a majority of human lives, each in
imminent danger. Answering an urgent
summons from the crippled steamer
Erringhi with seven men aboard, driving
fast on to the Dee Why bombora, he saw
a swimmer fighting for his life off the
Waverley cliffs. He did the right thing
and kept his course for the steamer. The
swimmer, a lad of 19, who used his last
ounce of strength to wave farewell to
the helpless watchers on the cliffs, lost
his life, but the Erringhi and her com-
pany were snatched out of the very jaws
of death.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Sydney police felt called
upon to take a hand when a suburban
greengrocer hoisted in front of his shop
a big sign “Remember Sanctions: Buy
Your Fruit at Kelly’s.” A local sergeant
told him that the sign would have to
come down, and a similar fate befel a
substitute, “Patriots Should Remember:
Do Not Deal with the Enemies of To-
morrow.” The real joke is that “Kelly”
(the name isn’t that, but it is quite as
Irish) is an Italian who borrowed the
name when he bought the business from
its original Irish holder. His immediate
competitors are Greeks.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Cabled accounts of
leper escapees shooting their way out of
the Culion lazarette suggest that the place
must have changed greatly since I saw it,
under American management, in 1911.
Unauthorised entry was the problem
then, not escape. Every loafei in &
Philippines, of whatever color, yearnea
to enter that paradise of plentiful Joo ,
very nominal work and no need or
money. It was admirably organised as a
self-governing community; an aristo-
cratic Spanish leper was Mayor, ana 1
even issued its own currency. Cater
visits to the islands, after health matte is
had been handed over to Filipino con-
trol, showed some remarkable things m
the way of attempts to conceal small-
pox and cholera outbreaks, so that it is
possible that Culion Lazarette has been
farmed out as a get-rich-quick proposi-
tion to some suave little brown politi-
cian with a carefully acquired American
accent.
* * * *
“Delia” : Recent reference to travellers’
tales of Australia reminds me that these
are not all confined to folk in far-ou
lands. Mosquitoes kept for experiment
in the Brisbane city health department at
the Town Hall have moved an Auckland
(M.L.) journal to a thriller telling how
the “costly edifice” is “overrun with
mosquitoes of a special breed and vicious-
ness which have rendered existence in the
million-pound pile almost unendurable.
Also, a Los Angeles paper has discovered
that a rat of vast proportions is terroris-
ing the same place and defying all
attempts at capture. Capping it all, the
Jo’burg “Sunday Times” announces that
the Brisbane canneries which supplied
turtle soup for the ciL s aldermanic ban-
quets have had to close down owing f o
the demand for their product these hard
times being practically confined to said
banqueteers.
* * * *
“Ras Ogemawska”: It is scarcely cor-
rect to say that the exit of Haile Silassie
brings to an end the oldest monarchy in
the world (B. 20/5/’36), seeing that the
head of the house of
Savoy is apparently to
be Haile’s successor.
Victor Immanuel is
not, of course, of the
line of Solomon, but
neither, for that
matter, is Haile
Silassie. The king-
dom of Ethiopia really
petered out in 1769,
when the monarchy
virtually ceased to
exist. Even then it
had not come down
from the Queen of
Sheba; indeed, the
particular realm that
lady ruled over is un-
certain. Sheba may
have been Saba, in
South Arabia, or
Soba, between the
White and Blue Niles,
or Asab, on the
borders of Eritrea, or
Axum. Anyway,
Haile’s successor
comes from a family
of respectable pedi-
gree, for of all the
reigning houses of
Europe none can compare in antiquity
of origin and in length of pedigree with
the house of Savoy.
iji >!• ¥
“Becks”: Even the Alsatian is not
always so ferocious as his detractors pic-
ture him. In a Melbourne suburban
street some children were celebrating
Empire Day with fireworks, and a Ger-
man sheep-dog, out for his evening stroll,
intercepted a string of crackers. The
terrified hound rushed into the nearest
shop, bounded upstairs and hid himself
in the bathroom. It took a police wire-
less patrol to shift him.
$ * * *
“Morita”: It’s news to me that the
ALE. ever knowingly accepted youths
under 18 (B. 27/5/’36). Certainly many
17-year-olds got away, but their ages
were falsely given as 18. The fifth-high-
est percentage of enlistments at all ages
(7.08 p.c.) was of youths officially 18, but
it included “under-ages.” A crowd of
us, all under 18, went into camp together
straight from the compulsory cadets.
Looking over their records, I can say that
the only ones to go down like “Spare
Corp’s” ninepins were actual casualties.
I was told by a Field Ambulance colonel,
in the field since The Landing, that youths
stood the strain as well as men, excep-
tions being those who cracked up with
heart trouble. “Your body from 18 to
21 outgrows the heart,” he told me.
“After that the heart normally catches
up, but if you put abnormal strain on
the heart while it lags behind something
must go.” Other young fry in our crowd
went the same way, but after years of
field conditions.
EXISTENCE.
“A witness at the Milk Inquiry (Sydney) deposed
that the dairy farmers in his district were ‘just exist-
ing,’ unaible to enjoy the luxuries of life, though (he
admitted) many of them had motor-cars.”
These sturdy folk to whom we render payment,
Week-in, week-out, for matutinal milk,
They cannot clothe their wives in costly raiment,
Sleek sealskin coats or shimmering gowns of
silk.
In fertile fields they look to find the makings
Of fortune from the moo-cow’s lacteal yield,
But how ridiculously small their takings
Compared with those of chaps who “lay the
field”! . . .
With all the milk that Strawberry is giving,
All that from Daisy you can coax and twist,
They only live —no, can you call it living?—
They just exist.
They’re close to Nature, and without cessation
Brisk to their toil our dairy-farmers go;
But there is insufficient compensation
It seems for all their graft, in lack of dough.
They cannot shout, as lusty politicians
Might do, or careless birds like you or me,
Or chaps with steady jobs on royal commis-
sions,
Or ultra-lucky miners on the spree.
The nation’s backbone always was their nomen,
Men of the ruddy neck, the freckled fist,
But life is not for them, these hefty yeomen;
They just exist.
For us, the lure of golf and bowls and races,
Of rippling dances and of gleaming bars;
For them, the magic of the open spaces,
The “glory of the everlasting stars.”
It’s fifty-fifty—so I’ve heard it reckoned—
Each to his taste, whichever it may be;
Some to our modern Babylons are beckoned,
Some to the sylvan glades of Arcady.
But here’s the diff. We revel
and we riot
In all the pleasures that we
like or list,
feut they, in all their peace and
calm and quiet,
Merely exist.
It’s tough, too tough! With-
out their constant favor,
Their honest enterprise,
what would become
Of that which lends your even-
ing tea its savor
And regularly smooths my
morning rum?
They toil for us, with industry
unending,
With hardened sinews and
with knitted brows,
Steadfast, untired, unslacken-
ing, unbending—
Excepting when they tap the
patient cows.
Daylight to dark they set
themselves in action
For us, from dewy morn to
night-time mist,
And how inadequate the satis-
faction
When, even with the boon of
motor traction,
They just exist!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Katie Keyboard”: I read a piece
in the paper that two girls have got
jobs television announcing in London,
and that they have photogenic faces,
whatever those are, and are dashingly
dressed in Mayfairish airs. If they don’t
wear anything else underneath I don't
think it’s at all nice, because if it’s real
television everyone will be able to see
them, and I’m sure Mr. O’Reilly would
never let them be televisioned to Aus-
tralia like that, and Mr. Spooner wouldn’t
either, no matter what girls wear on the
beaches. But it’s puzzling me because
one of them wants a clothes press, and
a woman said they would need 365
dresses each. Perhaps they are photo-
genic all over, and if it is anything like
the soap advertisements say 8.0. is,
then they would need a lot more dresses
and a bath each, too.
* * * *
“Findy”; Visitors to Hobart may smile
a trifle contemptuously at the city’s
double-decker trams, which rock like a
see-saw when top speed is attained, but
if they glance at their tickets they will
find that in one respect Hobart is up to
the minute. Instead of the customary
circumlocution on mainland tram tickets
intimating that if passengers fail to pro-
duce them when requested to do so an-
other fare may be demanded, the Hobart
chit says brusquely in bold type NO
TICKET—PAY AGAIN. It leaves no
room for doubt.
* ;i! *
“Double Disc”; The hero of the
Ferret piracy (B. 27/5/’36) was an
American filibuster who passed under the
name of Captain George B. Boynton, but
when the Ferret was stolen from the
Highland Railway Co. he became James
Stuart Henderson. A book concerning
this gentleman’s alleged adventures was
published in Chicago in 1911. Accord-
ing to him, he paid a man named Wil-
liam Nourse, a Tasmanian, £l2OO to im-
personate him and “carry the baby.”
Nourse did not realise the seriousness of
piracy until he and Wilson (the first
officer) got seven years apiece in Pen-
tridge; Leigh (the sailing master) was
sentenced to three and a half years.
Boynton got off scot-free and decamped
to England. The Ferret was subsequently
sold, and was for many years on the run
between Albany and Adelaide. Boynton
died in New York, aged 69.
* * * *
“M. 8.”; I agree with “Drysdale” (B.
13/ 5/ ’36) that first-aid training in schools
would save many a
life. Only a few
weeks ago I walked
into a bar in our
country town (N.Q.)
after finishing for
the night, and I was
hailed by a shout of
“Quick, doc., there’s
a bloke bleeding to
death.” I found a
man unconscious on
the floor with an
artery spurting from
the top of his head ;
he had received a
punch on the jaw
and in falling had
torn his scalp on the
projecting end of a
bolt which secured
the front door. Ten
or twelve grown
men, including Bung,
were standing round
in a condition of
complete helpless-
ness. With a’ clean
handkerchief and a
compressing thumb
1 did what any
medico would do :
but for this the man
would certainly have
bled to death before
the ambulance
arrived, ten minutes
later, nobody present
having even an ele-
mentary knowledge
of first aid. I might
add that virtue was
its own reward ; not
only was I not
thanked, but three
days later the patient,
with his head bandaged up and some-
what the worse for liquor, had the nerve
to bite me for two bob.
* * * *
“Fisher’s Ghost”; Dying, a Sydney
carrier insisted that the horses which had
carried him through life should bear his
body to the grave. The undertaker was
almost stumped by this request, but he
finally improvised a hearse out of a
covered-in waggon. I’m not yet middle-
aged, and can remember the first motor
funeral in Sydney and the disapproval of
the public at the innovation.
“Centurion”: Military reforms in the
British Army come quick and fast. The
latest is the simplification of the elabo-
rate officers’ ceremonial salute with the
sword during the march past. This used
to be the newly-joined subaltern’s night-
mare, it's complicated and stately move-
ments in exact time requiring hours of
practice. On horseback the danger lay
in a restive mount resenting the outward
swing of the arm
and its return to the
armpit. The infan-
try officer bringing
the weapon down
with the point six
inches from the
ground courted
catastrophe. March-
ing at a quick
pace and with eyes
glued to the saluting
base, it was easy to
stick the point into
the ground, with the
result that the oper-
ator lost his grip of
the sticker or igno-
miniously tripped
over it. An offender
was not usually
asked to send in his
papers, but his C.O.
and the adjutant
made life hard for
him, to say nothing
of his brother subs.
Sometimes he fled to
hide his shame in
one of the black
West India regiments or applied for a
colonial appointment.
* ■■■■ * *
“Tavua”; Sydney is to have a “con-
tango” ball, announcements of which
decorate the public places. The placards
are made attractive with two illustrations.
One is obviously the head of a bear which
hails from the fastnesses of nether Cali-
fornia. The other is typically Australian.
As one who has judged cattle in the
showring, I recognise it clearly as the
head of a cow. A rather fair cow, in
fact. I am not questioning the appro-
priateness of this emblem.
* ❖ * *
“Mako”; Add to queer vehicle thefts
(B. 17/5/’36) that of a Black Maria.
Some years ago the prison van from Mt.
Eden, Auckland, was sent with a driver
and a warder to a suburban station to
collect a prisoner arriving from the
country. The two officials left the vehicle
“ Hey , dig., getsh shum asshishtansh. Cant hold thish
thing up mush longer !”
to go to the platform ; when they re-
turned with the passenger Maria had
vanished. A taxi was hurriedly hailed,
and in a few minutes the whole network
of police stations knew that somebody
had stolen B.M. She was away, pre-
sumably in the grasp of joyriders, until
early next morning, when she was dis-
covered near home, canting abandonedly
over on one side, with a huge mileage
ticked up by her speedometer. During
her absence she had been entirely unre-
ported, and the borrowers were never
unearthed.
“Kimber Lee”: I shall remember
Empire Day, 1936. Up our Sydney
suburban road a team of small boys
struggled with clumps of bonfire material
gathered on adjacent heath lands,
Arrived at the foot of the hill, the size
of their task daunted them, and the
attempt, begun with so much enthusiasm,
looked like degenerating into failure. A
man driving a utility truck saw the
“Very well, doctor, 1 promise not to faint till you arrive .”
dilemma. The spirit of Peter Pan touched
his heart; he swung his truck round,
commandeered rope and wire from my
toolshed and started his tow up the hill.
There were boys in the truck, boys racing
along the footpath, boys trotting in the
rear, every one shouting at the top cf
his voice. And from every lane, yard
and corner (it seemed) raced yelping
dogs, from an old, calloused, half-blind
Dalmatian to a terrier pup that ran on
three legs, got in everybody’s way, was
knocked over and struggled up, ki-yiking
joyfully as he staggered on. Dogs can-
noned into themselves or into the boys
or stopped to fight or merely uttered
threats and raced forward. The man in
the utility tooted his horn, oncoming cars
gave him the right-of-way, the sky be-
came bluer, the years softer ; memories
trooped into the road and rioted with the
skipping, cheering boys and the yelping,
laughing dogs. Then the procession dis-
appeared over the concreted hilltop, and
our street went inside to have its tea.
& * * *
“Are”; It’s a safe bet that many of
those so-called war-souvenired guns (B.
20/5/’36) were never near any war zone
at all. Just after the war the military
authorities in Brisbane informed the City
Council that they had a stock of
old and obsolete guns which they were
ready to hand over gratis if any
use could be found for them in the city
parks. Doubtless the same thing hap-
pened elsewhere. Such guns, of course,
have no records tagged on them, but to
those who did not go to the war one
gun is as good as another.
* * * *
“O. Henery”: Students’ “humor” is
usually tiresome; but the American
Association for the Veterans of Future
Wars represents a pleasant change. Mem-
bers are claiming from Congress pre-
payment of the bonus they will have
merited after the wars now brewing for
them have been fought. They demand
an immediate cash payment of 1000
dollars each as “adjusted compensation”
for their part in the next war, maintain-
ing that they have already seen quite as
much of it as many of the bonus-benefit-
ing veterans of the last war. The move-
ment was started by Princeton and is
spreading. An auxiliary of potential
“Gold Star Mothers” is forming, and a
Texas Congressman has contributed his
blessing: “I think the scheme is swell.
If we paid for our wars in advance we
wouldn’t have any.”
* ❖ * ❖
“Adelaide”: A good, unfinished drama
is open for the study of novelists at Port
Lincoln (S.A.). A was a Danish fisher-
man, B his friend. A was understood
to have gone on a trip to Europe. After
waiting several years without news of
or from him, the police brought a murder
charge against B, who was using A’s
boat. B’s story was simple: on a visit
to Adelaide A had decided on a trip
home, and departed, leaving no address,
saying “Look after my boat till I come
back.” The S.M. told the police they
had nothing to set against that ; no proof
that A was even dead, and no evidence
against B worth sending to a jury.
“Pardon Me”: That “electrical gun”
for firing electrical bullets at cancer
germs “El V.” (B. 27/5/’36) may be a
new way of utilising the gamma rays of
radium, which are the only ones used in
medicine. The total amount of pure
radium in the world is only about 350
grammes, of which a good half is housed
in the U.S.A. The X-ray therapy plant
does not discharge radium rays, and even
radium, as used at present, in the most
competent hands, cures only about 26 p.c.
of all male cancers. Incidentally, how
many people know that radium starts
life as uranium, and by losing some of
its rays becomes radium? As radium it
continues to emit rays for 2500 years,
and then, having lost its fire, settles down
and becomes a—lump of lead. As
radium it is worth £12,000 per gramme
in 1936, but as lead in 4436 it will be
worth just its weight in that metal,
_* „ . * T , * , * , .
Keiys ; A man 1 know cherished tor
ni°mh § a £ 1 note bearing the cryptic
legend My last, but I suppose you must
h ave R-. His friends were asked to offer
a solution ot the inscription, and these
vane d r ° m su gg es fi° n that the lines
were addressed to the Income Tax De-
partment, an importunate ladylove, his
g r °cer, tailor or butcher, or the time-
payment pianola man. But they were
wrong- It wa: s passed on Rose Day
to a delectable damsel selling posies,
and an amused parent gave her an un-
inscribed- note in exchange.
* * ° *
“Bibliophile”; Some bullets for “Ox-
mead” (B. 27/5/’36) to chew:
(1) Writing from Union club, Sydney, to
Mrs . Charles Fairchild, Sept., 1890, Stevenson
said: “I regret my letter to Dr. Hyde. I
think it was barbarously harsh.” To Chatto
and Wmdus, his publishers, who brought out
t | lc public edition of the letter, he wrote re-
fusing all royalties, adding, “I will never touch
a penny of remuneration. I could not eat a
that P iece of bludgeoning has gamed
(2) R.L.S. refuted none of the charges Hyde
had made, and he was wrong in stating that
Hyde had never been to Molokai. Hyde was
there on no fewer than three occasions, and
knew Damien quite well. Hyde was actually
correct in all his statements, save one, the
most important This was categorically denied
& ’ *
(3) Hyde did reply to Stevenson, in the only
wa y °P en to him (the American press), and he
STrhtoifr"§y' cS.wto
wrote , 0 Hyde to ask what sort of man Damien
actually was. The reply was confidential and
should have been treated, as such,
(11 , * * * „ * , ,
R- a zor Bill : The way the official mind
1 5.. s Pj eac fidly illustrated by the
N-S»-W. Pistol License Act, which is to
a l n ? enc^ e , * want to buy a Udy’s
P ear l-h a ndled popgun, about the size of
a £°PP er s badge and about as dangerous,
* ave to ta^e °P! a l icense - But if my
taste f ll / 18 to a Mauser, the long barrel
(4 which slips neatly through a small hole
m *? y Jp ants P oc ket, and which can be
as deadly a weapon as there is at either
short or long range when used with
bullets which have been flattened (or
Me tzlered) at the top, I can say “Tut!
Xut! ” if a un if ora i asks me where I got
it. If I am a dressy person who doesn’t
like holes in a pocket, I merely reduce
the lOin. barrel of a gat, which doesn’t
need a license, to fit, and can wander
round happy in the knowledge that no-
body can ask me why, unless I begin
threatening the wife with it or discharg-
ing leopard ammunition at some tax-col-
lector. Personally, however, I don’t like
shortening my guns. The longer ones
are far easier to aim, have a longer range,
are better for round-the-corner work and
generally more deadly than the squat
variety.


20M'6
9 a
10/
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS, i
)
ms*v&r ••
CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
“Mr. Lyons denies that he is leaving
politics.” Very magnanimous and all
that; but if the wool market breaks
because the Japanese refuse to bid, and if
the Jap-Manchukuoan wheat and flour
market is lost, politics will be leaving
Mr. Lyons.
Earle Page’s second name is “Christ-
mas.” John Bull’s lack of enthusiasm
which annoyed Earle so much suggests
that the Old Man failed to remember
it when the doctor presented him with
the news of the Whiskard-Gullett tariff.
The latest from Dr. Bargeman, Goul-
burn’s amazing bishop:
We shall never have peace until the
members of the League are prepared to
fight an absolutely disinterested war.
The one thing certain about this “abso-
lutely disinterested war” is that Bishop
Bargeman won’t be in it.
Parkhill told Parliament that the latest
’planes ordered for the R.A.A.F. were
twin-engined monoplanes, speed 190
m.p.h. A month before, Sassoon, the
British Air Secretary, told the Commons
that one of the new types of fighter under
test had achieved a speed of well over
300 m.p.h., and that another type was
expected to rival it. Of course, Can-
berra’s idea is that the second-best is
good enough for Australia.
Motor-cars, trucks, smokes, building
material and cotton and art.-silk goods
will be dearer as a result of the Whisk-
ard-Gullett tariff. First-fruits are a Bel-
gian notification that the treaty admit-
ting Australian wool, S.A. barley, wheat
and frozen meat (largely Westralian) into
Belgium “will cease to be effective on
August 1,” and a Japanese Foreign Office
announcement that the trade-protection
law with which the Canadians were
fought will be “invoked against Aus-
tralia.” Mr. Gullett can’t understand it,
for he assured the Japanese that the new
duties wouldn’t hit them very hard, and
he worked it out, begad, that they would
positively benefit the Belgians.
Five candidates are after the vacant
seat in the N.S.W. Leg. Council. Dick-
son, the Broken Hill newspaperman, has
been nominated by the local members,
but he has no chance. Three other
gentlemen are from Albury, Forbes and
Rand wick. There remains Charles
Rosenthal, of Mont St. Quentin. The
ballot will show what the U.A.P.-U.C.P.
soldier-preference policy is worth.
While the hue and cry against Garden
was at its height, Theodore, as “S. M,
Herald” records, “left for Suva by the
Monterey.” The Langsters turned against
Garden because he suddenly began to
champion Theodore. Obviously Theo-
dore is doing no championing of Garden,
The Privy Council dismissed the third
appeal in the case of Sodeman, the
self-confessed killer of four little Vic-
torian girls. Nowadays murder cases
automatically become appeal cases, but
this Privy Council business should be
stopped somehow. Perhaps as good a
way as any would be to add a clause to
Judiciary Acts prohibiting the publication
of those dissenting judgments which do
so much to spread the plague of un-
necessary litigation. Isaac Isaacs sat on
the third Sodeman appeal as a Privy
Councillor. He must have remarked that
only one judgment was delivered.
Arnold Wienholt, the former Queens-
land M.H.R. and M.L.A., is back from
Ethiopia, where he served in the Red
Cross. He tells Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
that “the Shiftas (rebels) were the largest
single factor in the collapse of the
northern army.”
By the end of the campaign they in-
cluded all the natives in the Wallo dis-
trict, also the Danakils, “whose national
sport and industry is murder.’”
We know those Danakils, At the outset
of the campaign they were heroes to
British “Liberal” and “Labor” news-
papers.
The Sydney Government was beaten
last week on an urgency motion from its
own side—the Kogarah Ross was the
mover —and Bruxner didn’t improve the
situation by,adjourning the House in a
huff. Cause and occasion of the reverse
were characteristic of the “anti-socialist”
and pro-holiday crowd in office. Security
of tenure was demanded for private bus-
owners, whose businesses are seized with-
out compensation when it suits the
Transport Strangulation Department.
Seven U.A.P. members and the Labor-
ites voted for the urgency motion, and
the Government found itself in a minor-
ity of four, “many Ministerialists being
absent,” Somebody mentioned that
seven were in England.
Unlike the Communists, the Fascists
made no attempt to export their system,
but it has been exported all the same.
The Nazis were the first to copy it, and
“The Lang A.L.P. executive has expelled Garden, M.H.R....Beasley, leader
of the Lang group, has denounced Mr. Garden.”
“And take your Jubilee Medal!"
powerful Fascist parties have since arisen
in Austria, France and other European
countries; even in Belgium 21 Fascists
(called Rexists) have been elected to the
Chamber, which has 186 members. And
Paraguay has a Fascist Government, In
Britain the growth of the Fascists has
been arrested, partly by the propaganda
of Red and Pink literary gents., but
chiefly by the memory of how they burst
on a fun-loving Cockaigne in blackshirts
bearing the letters “8.F.” All the same,
they are exploiting the “sanctions” fiasco
to some purpose.
All the States were invited to send
delegates to “the World Conference of
the New Education Fellowship, to be
held at Cheltenham, England,” but only
the State with the hugest deficit accepted.
Victoria is to be represented by a senior
teacher, in England on exchange duty.
N. S. Wales has two Government
dominies in England—a head-office man
and a Teachers’ College principal—and
each could look after its interests, if
necessary. But neither is to be requisi-
tioned, because it is Minister Drum-
mond’s turn to have a trip.
After four months, “Mr. Lyons,” it
seems, “is taking a keen interest in the
air-mail position, negotiations in which
have reached an interesting stage.” Still,
Ministers are “not enamored of the
British proposals, which are regarded as
too costly for Australia.” By which is
meant that their operation would reduce
the Post Office’s bloated surplus, since
the Government would be obliged to go
in for radio beacons and night-landing
grounds and harbor facilities for sea-
planes and give up charging the dearest
postage in the world.
Just on 10 years ago, Lang, then Pre-
mier for the first time, was in desperate
danger of being dethroned in a palace
revolution. Garden led a band of trade-
union secretaries to Macquarie-street,
Sydney, and saved him by putting the
fear of expulsion in the hearts of three or
four wavering Labor members. But for
that manoeuvre Peter Loughlin would
have been elected party leader, and the
Ministry would have been reconstructed,
with Loughlin Premier and Lang ex-
cluded. Now the Lang faction has kicked
Garden out, and the charges and counter-
charges have become so furious —hard
lying is, of course, alleged, also the
pinching of a party minute-book —that
reconciliation seems impossible. Poor
Loughlin, who became U.A.P. member
for Goulburn and lost his seat after one
term, must be contemplating the latest
hullabaloo with mingled emotions.
N.S.W. employs three able lawyers
called Industrial Commissioners to per-
form an interminable operation called
fixing the basic wage. The three
reduced the basic wage for women by
eighteenpence a week, and there was
such a row that a scared Government
brought in a bill cancelling the “deter-
mination” and instructing the three able
lawyers to refix the wage on another
basis, which will virtually mean sixpence
on the old rate. So that there may be
no repetition of the rumpus —at least,
that is the pretext—it has added a fourth
able lawyer to the Commission. Truly,
the ways of Australian Governments are
past understanding.
Sydney City Council is again threaten-
ing to sue churches for rates owing on
properties in poor parishes. It would
drop the proceedings if it could get some
consideration from the State Govern-
ment, which is continually resuming prop-
erties and expanding businesses and tak-
ing advantage of a Rate Exemption Act
passed by Lang. The Commonwealth
Bank owns city properties valued at
£719,545, and regularly pays the equiva-
lent of the rate, £13,491. The State Gov-
ernment owns properties valued at
£5,000,000, exclusive of schools and
underground railways, and never contri-
butes a penny, though if rateable it wouid
be liable for £100,000 a year. Its latest
venture is the Wynyard railway restau-
rant, which pays neither rates nor taxes
and competes with people who do.
Thorby, who is Minister for Some-
thing or Other at Canberra, has no
fear that Japan will retaliate’ for th<_
thumping increases in the duties on
rayon and cotton piece goods,” because
.“it is a sound proposition for Japan to
buy Australian wool.” The Thorbys ot
Australia and North America used to talk
in the same strain about wheat; indeed,
the North Americans were so positive
that it was “a sound proposition” for
the Europeans and Asiatics to buy their
wheat that they decided to sell it only
at their own price. Mr. Thorby must
have forgotten it.
Even the Queensland branch of the
A.R.U. is getting tired of the transport
“policy” under which the Minister for
Works is telling the public at one
moment that there is no future for rail-
ways, and the next minute the Minister-
“for” Transport is blaring about the
need for more railways and suppression
of motor traffic on the roads his col-
league has built. Says the union journal:
For a transport authority to function
only in the direction of attempting to
block the development of modern forms
of transport is as stupid and reactionary
as it would have been for the shareholder
of Cobb and Co. to object to the develop-
ment of railways.
The catch is advocacy of “one con-
trol” for all transport, which means con-
trol by railway-union bosses.
Lord Mayor Jones and one of his
aldermen have been disagreeing violently
as to how much has been borrowed since
Brisbane became “Greater” Brisbane in
October, 1925. The alderman says the
amount is £11,037,000, and asks tartly
“What’s a few paltry millions among
friends?” His lordship draws a fine
distinction, and remarks that the “total
owing as a result of Greater Brisbane
borrowing is £8,434,000.” But everybody
seems to agree that the total debt is
£19,700,000.
From “Molongloside: —
The trade-diversion policy may be regarded
as electioneering. U.A.P. members represent-
ing semi-industrialised electorates have long
been nervous at the thought of haying to go
back to their constituencies defending a low-
tariff policy. It is held that the trade-diversion
business will reassure them and give them an
effective reply to Labor charges that 1 ro-
tectionist interests have been sacrificed at the
behest of Dr. Page. It would not be sur-
prising if a sudden election followed I arlia-
mentary ratification of the new schedules. But
this can’t be done much before the end ol the
year so an election in the spring or summer
of 1937 is more likely. Of course, if the wool
market broke it would spoil everything.
From Hobart: —
Touching the defeat of Tas. Shields (B.
13/5/’36), at a previous election Nicholls,
M.L.C., proudly announced that he had voted
for 10-to-10 bar hours in opposition to the
views held by Shields, who is a man of out-
standing ability. Nicholls got it in the neck.
At the election which was disastrous to Shields,
W. H. Calvert, of apple fame, was opposed
by A C. Parsons, of HuonvHle. Calvert also
voted against Ogilvie’s 10 p.m.-closing bill.
Ogilvie told the electors of the Huon to mark
Parsons one and Calvert three, but Calvert
retained the seat. The point in question is not
one of ten o’clock or six o’clock closing. I he
Upper House considered that any alteration to
the present closing hour should be decided by
a referendum. Ogilvie, being a Labor Premier,
has no time for a referendum.


ff
Show the Claimants in,JenkimS',
one at a time , please "
//
It was a great• great- great auht ofmihs ,-
that dropped The. Qarter.'*,
" 1m A DESCGNDANI OF THE FIRST (JamESS JESTER.
/x K.NOVJ ANV FUNNV EjToRiES "
" a,h Aksheshter. o / mne ushed T FIDDLE
FOR OC CpLE ''
' ./
IM A NbLU GvWVNNE. C^IRL-.
Isn't IT PEISFECTLV TVXR»U_N4G* ,
Twe FOUMDER OF OUR. HOUSE. W/<LS
captaim op Canute's Lifesavers club "
'/ 2. i "
Me, * IONUV POUGVAT poe .
AT THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
"A Court of Claims is to decide which citizens are privileged to attend the King at the coronation —who will carry his gloves and his spurs, who is Hereditary Poulterer,
who the Bearer of the Third Sword. The post of Chief Herb-strewer is claimed: by a lady.”


Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s’’ criticism (10/l/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. Ooorge’s Terrace, Pefth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
WOLFE’
Take one a day “FOR YOUR HEALTH'S SAKE" . • •
. . AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Bulletin has lost one of its oldest
contributors in George Meudell, who
died suddenly in Melbourne last week. A
fine old boy, with a passionate devotion
to Australia, Meudell was a stormy petrel
in financial circles. His book The
Pleasant Career of a Spendthrift caused
an uproar when first published some
years ago. A new edition appeared
only a few days before his death.
Almost every showring in eastern Aus-
tralia for a quarter of a century has
known a patient, smiling little man, dol-
ing out samples of wine and the
latest news about the weather and the
Nine Miles from Gundagai.
cattle a thousand miles away. Show
dinners have seen the little man trans-
formed, holding his audience spellbound
with recitations of his own composing.
And thousands of twinkling campfires,
hundreds of tiny halls and many a cold
dugout in France or on Gallipoli have
thrilled as somebody rose to begin
I’ve done my time a-shearing sheep
And droving an’ all that,
And bogged a bullock team as well
On k Murrumbidgee flat.
Following the bullocks “stretching and
straining” and “blinking their bleary
eyes” to the culmination in which “The
dog sat on the tucker-box, nine miles
from Gundagai.” Gundagai made the
dog and the tucker-box a reality at its
nine-mile post—a Prime Minister dedi-
cated the effigy. This is Jack Moses’s
greatest pride, but fame has not changed
him from the gentle, smiling friend-of-all-
the-world he has always been.
A. A. Jackson, Queensland’s rifle club
supervisor, joins his N. S. Wales col-
league Sherbon in retirement after 44
years in the Defence Department. He
has been supervisor since 1911. He joined
the military in 1889, and rose from the
ranks to be a lieutenant-colonel. His first
corps was the Kennedy regiment—which
afterwards became the 2nd Battalion of
the force which captured German New
Guinea.
Australia has received back a distin-
guished native son in H. H. Brose,
Rhodes scholar, linguist and perhaps the
only man in Australia who is bracketed
as science and music scholar at Adelaide
University. He was lecturer in physics
to the Wykeham Professor of Physics at
Oxford, was an athletic blue, vice-presi-
dent of a section of the British Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, and
for nine years secretary of the Oxford
Physical and Mathematical Society. After
a term as physics professor at Notting-
ham University he has been attached
once more to the staff of Sydney Uni.
As a translator of German scientific
works he is well known, but when he
deals with his subjects to the limit of his
experience his knowledge is so advanced
and his elucidation so abstruse that there
is only about one man who could be de-
pended on as an understanding audience:
Einstein.
S.A. has lost a sound musician in
Winsloe Hall, at 67. He had studied
under Parry, Stanford and Bouhy, sung
at Buckingham Palace, and been deputy-
conductor to Henry Wood before com-
ing to the Elder Conservatorium at Adel-
aide in 1910 as teacher of singing with
his wife, Madame Delmar Hall, also a
well-known artist. He has made a name
also as conductor and as composer of
opera. His “Lochinvar” and “The Ugly
Duckling” both drew good houses at the
Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
Melbourne Uni. students will lose a
good friend when J. P. Bainbridge retires
at the end of this year. For 25 years
he has been registrar of the “shop.”
Editing Wisden’s seems likely to be
listed among dangerous trades. The new
issue recalls that the last three occupants
of the chair have died in less than ten
years, and all suddenly—Pardon in his
office, Caine in his chair at home and
Southerton dramatically, while proposing
a toast at a cricket dinner. The last
started as scorer for Blackham’s team of
1893, becoming a leading pressman. He
was in Australia with Chapman in
1928-9 as “special” for Reuters and the
Press Association.
Hastings Deering, head of the N.S.W.
Ford agency and one of transport’s big-
gest men, has crammed a lot into his 39
years. Armageddon cut into his ’var-
sity career after he had been
grounded at Sydney Gram-
mar. He served with the Fly-
ing Corps, and after the war
immediately threw his energy
into motor transport. He
learned all about service to
the public—which he has
made the foundation on
which his enormous business
rests —from the U.S.A. trained
Lord Ashfield, who dominates
London’s bus and under-
ground services, and who
commissioned him to reorga-
nise A.E.C.’s Australian ac-
tivities. H.D.’s hobbies are
trout-fishing, horticulture and
work —and he is a good cook.
He is motordom’s only
known golfing freak —he
doesn’t like the game. His
happiest moments are spent
behind the wheel of a large
navy-blue Lincoln Zephyr,
which is a streamliner’s
dream.
Joseph Kinsey, dead at Christchurch
(M.L.), aged 84, was friend and financial
backer of Scott and Shackleton in their
Antarctic expeditions. Scott’s last journal
was delivered first into Kinsey’s hands,
and the world does not yet know what
one of the explorer’s farewell messages
was ; it won’t be published until all the
members of the luckless expedition are
dead. Kinsey was a book-collector, and
his library was the best private one in the
Dominion. The Antarctic and M.L. col-
lection is the most extensive in existence.
Every book and pamphlet that “Ere-
whon” Butler wrote are there. The
library remains with the widow, but it
will probably be public property in the
end.
It is a strange record for a still-living
man to have crowned two kings and met
a survivor of the Burke and Wills expedi-
tion. Such are among the distinctions
of Richard H. Blarney, who has cele-
brated his ninetieth birthday in Sydney.
The monarchs for whom he acted as
archbishop were Kings Billy and Charley
of the Cashalton (Q.) country ; the ex-
ploring survivor was Burke’s riding-
camel, later captured in St, George
township. A Cornishman, Blarney
reached Australia 75 years ago, and was
one of the early cattlemen in S.Q. Also,
he is the father of a first-rate Australian
soldier, now Victoria’s Commissioner of
Police. Another son is J. G. Blarney,
of Wagga. Three married daughters are
also living,
“One of the most capable journalists
in Australia” is the Bonython epitaph on
A. H. Young (71), of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” which was for many years Lang-
don Bonython’s own property. European
politics and literature were his strong
points, and for nearly half a century he
steadily wrote leaders and reviews. Yet
he was so retiring that the public scarcely
knew him. A son is on Melbourne
“Herald,” a daughter on Sydney “Sun.”
Hubert Clifford, winner of the 1935
Oxford Uni. Cobbett Prize (the Oxford
Uni, Press publishes his thesis), is a
Melbourne composer who went to Eng-
land in 1930. A student at the Albert-
street (Melb.) Con., he won a musical
scholarship. Fritz Hart was his instruc-
tor. Last year he got his Mus. Bac. at
the Royal College of Music (London).
Since then Clifford has won prizes at
Queen’s Hall and secured 8.8. C. recog-
nition. His “String Quartet in D” has
been selected as a national broadcast
item, and it is predicted that “A Kentish
Suite” (with which he gained the Cobbett
award) is certain of a successful future.
A prince of good fellows was W. M.
O’Hara, whose ’plane crashed after
he had taken off from a station 90 miles
from Dubbo (N.S.W.). O’Hara was a
Henry Ford’s Deputy.
prosperous Javan rubber-planter who
achieved notoriety when he kept secret
till the last moment the fact that he in-
tended to fly from Sydney to M.L. The
Civil Aviation Department would not
certificate his machine because of struc-
tural fuel-supply alterations, but he never-
theless made the flight successfully and
secured a license in Maoriland. When
killed he was on the point of attempting
a flight to Java,
If somebody were to hang all his dis-
tinctions on the tiny frame of A. D.
Ross, physics professor at Westralia’s
University, he would be crushed under the
weight of them, and there would be no
one for students to refer to affectionately
as “Wee Ahlec.” Alec Ross was one
of the first professors appointed when the
university was founded in 1912, but time
has not spoilt his rich northern Doric.
A Western Physicist.
He was 29 when he came to Australia,
with all the honors of Glasgow and Got-
tingen on him. He had been Thomson
Research Scholar, Houldsworth Research
Fellow, lecturer in natural philosophy at
Glasgow and president of the Scottish
branch of the Royal Astronomical
Society. He won the Kelvin medal for
research in natural philosophy after he
came south, was a member of the
Crocker Solar Research expedition, and
is a fine mathematician and a world
authority on some phases of spectroscopy
and astrophysics. And he has a broad
Scottish sense of humor and a large fund
of witty stories.
West'ralian Senator Carroll is dead.
For long he had been in poor health, and
latterly had made his home in Sydney,
as did Kingsmill. A Victorian, Carroll
was still young when he heard the Western
wheatfields calling. He became secretary
of the council of the Primary Producers’
Association, and was elected to the State
Leg. Council for the East Province. He
had been a Senator since Nov., 1925.
By “Watson, Junior”:
The last chapter of a good mystery plot
remains to be written at the Coroner's inquest
on Gordon Collins, the small, dapper, good-
humored assistant-director of the N.S.W. State
Lottery. Collins was 53, apparently prosperous,
with plenty of friends. On Friday, May 22,
he married a well-to-do widow 17 years his
senior. On Sunday he was due to go with his
wife to a week-end cottage at Balmoral on
Sydney Harbor. In the early afternoon of that
day he spent half an hour in a city lounge.
He did not drink there, but he produced a
will which he asked two waiters to witness.
Later he was seen at the Taronga Zoo wharf.
Then he disappeared. Four days afterwards
two boys found his body in a bay about a
mile from Taronga. It was coatless. There
was a bullet wound in the head. Collins’s
books and cash were in order; but a revolver
had disappeared from the lottery office and has
not been found. Neither have the dead man’s
coat and bag. Collins was a well-liked little
man, and most winners of substantial lottery
prizes knew him, as he was generally present
when they collected their cash.


The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited
SPECIAL FEATURES
of the Directors’ Report presented
at the
ANNUAL MEETING
held cm Wednesday, 27th May, 1936,
at 2.30 p.m., at the Offices of the
Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Another Record Year
Reduction in Expenses
Increase in Bonus Rate
ALL POLICIES, BOTH ORDINARY and INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENTS,
VALUED ON BASIS OF 3% INTEREST.
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
New Business—excluding Term Assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies.
Assuring
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £13,801,071/1/7)
Total Income for the Year
Claims by death (death rate low—only 47 per cent, of expectation) . .
SURPLUS (Every Year a BONUS YEAR)
(18,889) Policies
£11,638,479 3
928,148 9
2,728,018 10
409,604 12
561,962
2
7
0
6
1 7
COMBINED ORDINARY, INDUSTRIAL AND ACCIDENT DEPARTMENTS.
New Policies issued during the year . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 76,778
4
19
11
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies, and Accident and Sickness
Benefits) £13,768,171
Total Income for the Year, 1935 3,573,013
Interest Income . . . . - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1935 . . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • 18,042,478 14
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policyholders only.
Last year’s operations returned surpluses for the year over claims, expenses and provision for the growing
liability of policy contracts to the following extent: —
SURPLUSES FOR THE YEAR, £775,973 12 10
Contingency Reserves of-- £433,035 2 11
INTEREST EARNED ALL DEPARTMENTS £4 9 1 PER CENT.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional service to the assuring public.
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS PIONEERS OF GROUP
ASSURANCE.
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Chairman; The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Deputy Chairman; GEO. E. EMERY, C.M.G., J.P.
CHARLES J. HENDERSON, J.P.; General Sir HARRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
General Manager and Secretary: CECIL B. HEARN, A.C.I.S. . Actuary: F. C. McPHAIL, A.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M.D., B.S.
NEW SOUTH WALES: 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., Chairman; Sir Kelso King, K. 8.; Sydney Snow, Allen C. Lewis, Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. John Anderson, Manager
V. Bruce Smith, Assistant Manager. A. Maitland Gledden, M.D. (Brux.), F.R.C.S. (Edin.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L.R.C.P. (Lond.), Consulting Medical Officer.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
Directors: Brig.-General G. H. Dean, C.8.E., V.D., Chairman. Medical Director: C. T. C. de Crespigny, F.R.C.P. A. J. Cross, Manager.
QUEENSLAND; 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Directors: John E. Trade, Chairman. Medical Director: Dr. S. F. McDonald, M.R.C.P. F. H. Ironside, A.C.1.5., Manager.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors: H. B. Jackson, K.G., Chairman; J. J. Poynton, Charles Diamond. Medical Director: D. M. McWhae, M.R.C.P. J. A. Edwards, Manager.
TASMANIA; “Bursary House,” Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 13 Paterson Street, Launceston.
W. T. Bell and Co., Ltd., Local Agents.


How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time—your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter X. Brunton, Herbert B. Lysaght
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. X. A. J. X’layfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore,
B. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. Y. Douglass, Manager.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.43 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.43 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The WILD CAT COLUMN
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
During the year bondholders, num-
bering about 75,000, owning, with the
co.’s own forestry interest, approximately
162,500 acres of Pinus insignis in vary-
ing stages of growth, were formed into
a co. N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., was
registered with a nominal capital of
£11,000,000 in 170,000 ordinary shares
of £30 (representing £5,100,000) and
5,900,000 of £1. Up to Feb. 17, 141,498
£30 shares had been allotted in exchange
for that number of bonds. The shares
have varying rights, according to the date
of issue of the bonds. There has been an
agitation by some bondholders to have
these rights adjusted on a capital basis —
to have shares of a greater nominal value
issued for longer-dated bonds —but so
far the original arrangement has not
been altered.
At a later date it is intended to offer
preference shares to finance milling and
marketing.
Going back to the beginning, Henry
Landon Smith and Douglas S. Wylie
about 1923 got the idea of reafforest-
ing certain blocks of land in Maori-
land that could be bought cheaply.
N.Z.P.F., the afforestation co., ‘and Smith,
Wylie and Co., the bondselling concern,
were formed. The prospectus of
N.Z.P.F.’s first bond issue showed “capi-
tal” at £35,000 —the amount paid up
wasn’t mentioned. The same document
stated that “already 54,000 acres of land
have been acquired,” and that people
should come into the scheme because
“for every £25 you invest you should re-
ceive £500 or more.”
Over £1,000,000 worth of bonds and
shares was sold in the third year of
operations. There was a slowing-down
later, which grew more pronounced as
slump advanced. Sales of bonds and
other income, the amount spent on
or appropriated for development and
maintenance, and the amount of profit
claimed on shareholders’ account are
shown in this table: —
Land and
Develop- Mainten-, Dividend
March, Sales, etc. ment. ance. Profit. 8 p.c.
1929.. £563,203 £388,789 £156,364 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,666 135,709 18,874 14,772
1931.. 310,912 173,454 121,637 15,821 15,537
v Y '
1932.. 285,296 246,101 39,195 15,537
1933.. 314,657 286,198 28,459 15,797
1934.. 153,062 128,754 24,308 15,803
1935.. 211,745 194,402 17,343 15,803
1936.. 284,756 262,561 22,105 15,803
N.Z.P.F.’s contract with bondholders is
one of sale of land and services ; the
formation of N.Z. Forest Products means
that, whereas the co. previously had
75,000 bondholders, it now has only one
—the new co. The obligations of
N.Z.P.F. still remain until the period
of service has been completed—up to
20 years from date of planting.
Figures are not yet available as to the
number of bonds sold during last year.
Revenue (up £73,011) suggests an im-
provement. The total includes income
from investments —£595,420 in the hands
of trustees, £123,672 special reserve, and
investments, mortgages, cash, etc.,
£482,088.
The amount (£262,561) charged against
revenue includes the sum appropriated
(but not spent) in regard to maintenance,
etc. The total amount appropriated in
excess of expenditure to date figures in
the accounts at £1,126,584 (up £35,710
last year). If the plantations cost an
extra £3 an acre all round before com-
pletion of the co.’s contract, there should
be a profit of over £600,000 on share-
holders’ account in this item. There are
inner reserves among the assets also.
Last year’s claimed profit (£22,105)
was up £4762. The 8 p.c. distributed to
shareholders called for £15,803, and left
£21,581 in appropriation account. Re-
serve account (£6552) shows an unex-
plained reduction of £642.
In considering these balance-sheet
figures, the maintenance reserve
(£1,126,584 at March 31) should be kept
in mind as a partial liability:
1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. . . £191,266 £197,536 £197,536
Sundry creditors, etc. . . 91,361 89,466 139,559
Land 33,343 16,644 25,535
Plant, etc 21,686 16,698 17,381
Investments and cash . . 70,242 600,622 613,757
Bondholders’ balances . . 751,987 142,574 160,235
Other book debts . . 13,056 64,185 87,520
Trustees 455,952 567,663 595,420
Sundry creditors (£139,559, up £50,093)
include provision for taxation. Invest-
ments of a liquid nature (£1,201,180
altogether) increased £40,892. Bond-
holders’ balances moved up £17,661. The
co. has ample funds, with trustees and
in its own control, to carry out its obli-
gations, It has fulfilled them in strict
accordance with the contract to date.
Plans for a pulping mill are being con-
sidered, and the M.L. forestry industry is
approaching its testing period. The next
few years should give a better idea of
the technical and marketing possibilities
of Finns insignis.
The rearrangement of bondholders’
capital should be all to the good ; it
was carried out in accordance with the
Companies (Bondholders’ Incorporation)
Act passed by the M.L. Government.
If any bondholder is displeased with
recent developments, it is probably be-
cause he misunderstood his position
from the beginning. And bond contracts
were difficult for the layman to under-
stand.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
, —Dividends—, Bonus Added
Pref. Ord. to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.e. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1926.. 26,986 3425 7665 6798 U- ar , rl
Provident Fund. £1513 .. } ,oBj
All Shares.
1927. . 28,186 8 p.c. = 14,000 7874 {
Provident Fund, £1641 .. I 4ba
1928. . 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 | , Q ,„ , 7n
Provident Fund, £1791 . r 4948 5/,1/0
1929.. 29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7179 ) oqq, m
Written off, £3645 ( 3994 CM 6 !
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil i K , n7 K7l
Provident Fund, £612 .. ( 5407 60,571
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil ( sqn
Provident Fund, £5OB .. I 3319 69>89 °
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 *
Provident Fund, £524 .. j' — 71,949
1933.. 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 ) „
Provident Fund, £612 .. ) 2087 74,036
1934.. 20,739 5 p.e. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 ~ „ 9,440 4578 77 397
1936. . 22,403 5 „ „ 12,463 6723 3217 80’,614
Growth in figures has followed the ex-
tension of the business to Victoria ; about
three years ago the co. bought the good-
will of Grant, Hedge and Co., a Mel-
bourne firm of stock and station agents,
and put up a new wool store on two and
a half acres at North Melbourne. Selling
began there about the middle of 1934.
The drop in wool prices prevented the
effect of a bigger commission business
showing up in 1935, but for the latest
term (to March, 1936), when prices were
steadier and more profitable to the
grower, the co. has made a much better
showing.
In the term it received 123,613 bales
of wool from both States (up 5087) ;
because of 20,715 bales brought over
from last season, the co. was able to sell
142,545 bales (up 43,043) and carry for-
ward 1783 bales. The revenue figures
were further improved by the fact that
greasy wool averaged 14.2 d. during the
ten months to April 30, as against 9.6 d.
in the same period of the 1935 season.
In its livestock section, mainly because
of smaller offerings generally, the co.
sold 539,227 sheep (down 163,369):
cattle sales (37,877 head) were up
Commissions, etc. (£151,904), rose
£62,106. Exes. (£129,501) were £51,589
heavier. The net result, £22,403. was thus
£10,517 better. Both woolgrowing clients
and shareholders participated in the im-
provement ; though the former received
the same rate of rebate (20 p.c.) on com-
missions, it amounted to £6723 (up £2145).
Dividend to shareholders was lifted a
point (to 5 p.c.), calling for £12,463, and
£3217 was carried to reserves (£80,614).
Most of the recent business expansion
has been financed by outsiders; since
1934 share capital has increased by only
£16,802;
1924. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. £93,871 £232,314 £243,825 £249,116
Sundry creditors,
etc 169,790 206,222 339,618 361,692
Freeholds, etc. 211,635 257,308 390,784 416,275
Stocks.. .. 2,170 1,340 11,470 10,994
Book debts . . 90,553 ]
Cash and public }• 271,885 306,044 315,917
securities . . 15,753 J
The outside debt has grown £184,585
in that time. Much of the money has
gone into freeholds and plant (£416,275,
up £111,935 in the two years) and ad-
vances, investments, etc. (£315,917, up
£92,362).
At the close of accounts the debt ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £34,781,
an increase of £12,577 in the twelve-
month. During that time £25,491 more
was spent on fixed assets than was
written off.
The £1 shares are around par. Net
tangible backing is 265, 6d. on book
values.
Bagot’s Executor & Trustee Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 3006 lOp.c. = 2500 506 6,725-
1927.. 3021 10 „ „ 2500 521 7,246
1928.. 3150 10 „ „ 2500 650 7,896
1929.. 3115 10 „ „ 2500 615 8,511
1930.. 2511 10 „ „ 2500 11 8,522
1931.. 2763 10 „ „ 2500 263 8,785
Profit on securities, £497 .. 9,282
1932.. 2080 7*p.c. = 1875 9,487
1933.. 2036 7„ 1875 161 9,648
1934.. 2483 7} „ ~1875 60S 10,256
1935.. 2097 74,, ~1875 222 10,478
1936.. 2320 7|„ „ 1875 445 10,923
The div. of this little Adelaide trustee
co. hasn’t dropped below 74 p.c. over
the past five years. Launched in 1910
as an offshoot of Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis, for 14 years to the close of
accounts in 1931 it paid a steady 10 p.c.
Earnings have always covered the 74 p.c.
handed out lately, and, though profits
are showing a disinclination to recover
quickly, the co.’s div. rate compares very
favorably with those of other larger
trustee cos.
Last term the number of estates, etc.,
which came the co.’s way was a record ;
their value was “well up to the average
of recent years.” The co. doesn’t dis-
close the volume of trusts on hand;
though obviously not large, the value is
increasing:
Commissions. Interest. Expenses.
1926 .. £6819 £1826 £5639
1927 .. 7144 1854 5978
1928 ~ 8083 1909 6842
1929 ~ 8427 1924 7236
1930 ~ 7888 1980 7348
1931 ~ 7900 1998 7135
1932 ~ 7527 1722 7169
1933 .. 7471 1576 6928
1934 . . 8220 1579 7225
1935 .. 8822 1474 8106
1936 . . 9073 1594 8233
If all the exes, of the business be charged
to the trustee section, there isn’t a great
deal of profit in it. Last year an extra
£251 was received in commissions ; exes,
rose £127. Income from investments was
£l2O higher at 6.3 p.c. on capital. Leav-
ing a net addition of £BO (£2O in pre-
vious year) to commission reserved
account (£1000) out of the reckoning, but
acknowledging an unexplained reduction
of, £ll4 in other reserves, the net result
from all sources was 9.2 p.c. on capital,
as against 8.3, 9.9, 8.1, 8.3 and 11 p.c.
back to 1931. The 74 p.c. div. left £445
for reserves (£10,923).
The 200,000 £1 shares are paid to
2s. 6d. At ss. 3d. the yield is 3.5 p.c. on
a 74 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 3s. 7d.
in net tangibles!
There are possibilities of a div. lift if
prices for rural products keep firm.
Realisation of estates is becoming easier.
The co.’s own investments are of a
sound nature, as the interest return indi-
cates. At March 31 there was £26,337 in
Consols, £7850 in mortgages, £730 in
fittings and £2945 in cash, etc. An un-
claimed div. of 12s. 6d. is the only out-
side liability,
Toowoomba Permanent Building (Q.)
It is a purely mutual society, borrow-
ing (last year) at 54 p.c. and lending at
6 p.c. Loans are granted on up to three-
fourths the valuation of the freehold
security offered; principal and interest
are repaid at 3s. 9d. a week per £lOO.
The society claims that its methods are
unique. It set up in 1875, and makes
advances to borrowing members to en-
able them to buy, build or improve their
homes. Funds are provided by deposit-
ing members, who receive interest at a
rate decided on by the board. Last year
there were cuts of \ of 1 p.c. in the rate
allowed and i of 1 p.c. in the rate
charged. The difference of \ p.c. (i p.c.
in the previous year) in the respective
rates covered all exes., provided £lO6
for depreciation, £425 for taxation, and
left £464 for reserves.
The fact that there are no profits,
except those necessary for establishing
reserves, etc., means that borrowers get
lenders’ money passed on to them loaded
with a minimum of overhead. The rate
allowed to lenders has been, and still is,
high ; it had the effect of putting plenty
of funds at the society’s disposal until
the onset of slump changed the outlook
of investors and home-makers somewhat.
In 1935 the society had to call a halt
on the acceptance of deposits. The 6
p.c, then offering was much above the
rate obtainable on Government loans.
Deposits reached their peak in 1934,
and advances in 1935. Last year each
contracted rather sharply:—•
Interest Other
Feb., Deposits. Advances. Income. Paid. Outgo.
1926 .. 375,281 393,970 27,944 23,493 2749
1927 . . 445,083 460,638 34,057 27,805 3139
1928 . . 519,918 533,000 37,330 32,953 3240
1929 . . 594,806 610,114 43,212 38,101 4526
1930 . . 683,018 697,011 48,693 43,694 4171
1931 . . 721,911 716,148 53,547 48,314 4399
1932 . . 726,354 713,493 54,794 49,697 4093
3 933 .. 720,491 712,846 46,870 42,487 3881
1934 . . 736,496 710,142 47,041 42,553 4003
1935 . . 725,542 718,308 47,447 43,600 3843
1930 . . 701,573 702.731 44,173 39,081 4096
There are 4671 members (depositors and
borrowers combined, up 48), as against
2429 ten years ago. Last year’s drop of
£23,969 in deposits was accompanied by
a reduction of £15,577 in advances. To
maintain equilibrium between the figures,
investments were drawn on for £12,453,
and the bank and sundry creditors were
leant on for an extra £2023:
1924. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Deposits . . £257,012 £726,354 £725,542 £701,573
Other liabilities 9,449 96 255 2,278
Suspense account 9,040 4,115 10,680 4.247
Reserves . . 10,321 16,778 17,343 17^346
Advances .. 278,163 713,493 718,308 702,731
Premises and
fittings .. 2,309 2,079 7,538 7,510
Investments, etc. 7,090 32,771 28,086 15,633
Advances represent 100.1 p.c. of de-
posits, as against 99 and 96.4 p.c. in the
two preceding years.
The business has expanded greatly
since the bonus system was abandoned
in 1923 in favor of the present plan
(under which no income tax is paid). Six
years ago the society was paying 7 p.c.
for its money and charging 1\ p.c. It
is uncertain whether recent reductions
have reached bottom. Certainly the ten-
dency for all interest rates at present is
to lift, but in N. S. Wales the majority
of mortgages registered carry interest at
between 4 p.c. and 5 p.c.
There appears to have been little
trouble in regard to securities. The co.
operates in a comparatively prosperous
rural centre, and if risks are carefully
selected there should be little to worry
the society or its members.
Caro Court, Ltd.
This co., which proposes to erect a
block of flats at the corner of Miller and
Blue streets, North Sydney, has gone to
allotment on the “allocation” of 40,000 £1
shares. The public was originally offered
70,000 shares; a new prospectus, dated
May 7, says that the subscription list will
be closed when 50,000 are taken up.
The building, to be erected in three
sections, is to cost £226,000, if completed,
including £lB,OOO for the land and
£12,000 for promotion exes. The archi-
tects’ full plan provides for 276 flats—
-246 to be offered for letting at “a mini-
mum” of 375. 6d. a week, 14 at 425. 6d.,
and 16 at 50s. —and for 14 shops, to-
gether with garage accommodation fcr 50
cars.
Revenue is estimated at £30,927 p.a. if
the full building scheme is carried out.
Exes, are put at £6776, leaving an esti-
mated profit of £24,151. From this the
cost of borrowed money must be de-
ducted. On a mortgage of £113,000 in-
terest at 4\ p.c. would cost £5085, leav-
ing £19,066 net, equal to 16.8 p.c. on a
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


ttHWAI fINiHCf [g..
LIMITED m
♦ ♦ ♦
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £900,000
%
THE Producers and General Finance Corporation, Limited, who
have acquired the assets of Cranwells (Australasia), Limited,
assignees of the Primary Producers Bank (in liquidation), have opened
offices on the 7th Floor of “The Block,” 426-8 George Street, Sydney.
Corporation are fully equipped to deal with the requirements
of the Public in the following matters;
Cash Orders
Hire Purchase
Bills of Sale
General Finance
Including
Bills of Lading
Stock in Bond, etc
r J" , HE Producers and General Finance Corporation, Limited, have
retained the executives and staff of Cranwells and will continue to
conduct the business formerly transacted by that organisation in
respect to the Primary Producers Bank (in liquidation).
Telephone:
MJ4371 (3 lines).
Telegraphic Address:
“Pribank.”
o
s
p
B
0
D
3
K
*
Address all Communi-
cations to—
Box No. 3275 PP,
G.P.0., Sydney.
PRODUCERS
GENERAL FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
7th FLOOR “THE BLOCK”
426-8 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
DOUGLAS J. BUSH, F.1.C.5.,
Secretary.


NOBEC
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRAL,ASIAN AGENTS:
TERTH. W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Unified.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Umited.
MEL,BOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAB.: W. & O. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAB.: J. S. Mnnro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
Public Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
first) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 3rd day of July, 1936.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Friday, the 12th day of June,
and reopen at 10 a.m. on Monday, the 15th
day of June, 1936, and shareholders registered
on Saturday, the 13th day of June, 1936, will
be entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
„ . HUGH G. BRAIN, Manager.
Collins House, Melbourne,
27th May, 1936.
POMONA PUMPS
HEAVY DOTY MINE
DEWATERING POMPS
FOR VERTICAL SHAFTS
Pomona Pumps
are used largely
for Water Supply
Pumping and all
industrial require-
ments.
Pomona Pumps
are installed in
many mines in
all States of
Australia. One
at Talbot, Vic-
toria, has been
running non-stop
since early in
1933.
ẁ
Full particulars from the Sole Distributor:
F. N. BETHUNE,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.I.
Telephone; C 9935.
share capital of £113,000. As at present
the co. aims to raise only £50,000 of
share capital and to erect only part of
the building, these figures aren’t very
much to the point. And it has to be re-
membered that as yet they are only esti-
mates.
Revenue from what the architects call
“one section of the building,” involving
an estimated total outlay of £lOO,OOO, is
put at £11,797, subject to interest costs
and other exes. This figure is more
applicable to the amount of share money
which the present prospectus says it is
trying to raise. A net return of £6502
is calculated on this basis, equal to 13
p.c. on £50,000 of shareholders’ money.
The co. has circulated a good deal of
literature in connection with share-selling
that is not part of the prospectus. People
who are considering putting money into
the proposition should confine their atten-
tion to the prospectus, their own know-
ledge (if any) of flat propositions and the
likelihood of the management being able
to bring the concern to a remunerative
stage of success.
The only contract mentioned is one
between E. M. Davies and Co. and
L. G, T. Plowman, trustee for the co.,
relating to the purchase of an option
from E. M. Davies and Co. Promoters’
consideration is confined to £2650, says
the prospectus, being cost of the option
over the land. This amount, it is said,
is to be reinvested in the co. “after de-
ducting promoters’ expenses.”
Directors are Chester W. Davies, John
E. Best and Edward M. Davies. Beyond
the reference to promoters’ consideration
(perhaps applicable to E. M. Davies)
the prospectus does not say to what ex-
tent the directors have invested in the co.
New Commonwealth 3 2 p.c. Loan
The £9,000,000 which the Loan Council
is asking for carries 3f p.c. at £9B 10s.,
giving a yield, including redemption, of
£3 17s. 6d. per cent., as against £3 15s. sd.
per cent, for the November, 1935, issue.
Details of public loans since the
resumption of borrowing on the open
market are as follows;
Term, Issue Interest, Return,
Date. Amount. Years. Price. p.c. p.c.*
7/11/’32 £8,000,000 10 Par 3f £3/15/-
22/5/’33 8,461,000 9 Par 3f £3/15/-
16/11/’33 10,316,000 10 £99 Si £3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 £9B/10/- Si £3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 £99/15/- 3 £3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,500,000 14 £99/10/- Si £3/8/5
26/11/’35 7,500,000 14 £99/15/- Si £3/15/5
2/6/’36 9,000,000 15 £9B/10/- 3J £3/17/6
* Including- redemption.
Swift changes in money market con-
ditions over 18 months are noticeable
in the above table. Including redemp-
tion, the return offered has risen from
£3 os. sd. per cent, in November, 1934,
to £3 17s. 6d. per cent, in the present
case.
Since the issue of the previous loan
an attempt to borrow on Treasury bills
at If p.c, resulted in failure, and
bank deposit rates have been lifted by
an all-round 10s, per cent. A policy
of curtailing advances has been entered
upon by trading banks, and, owing to a
threatened shortage of London funds,
finance for imports has not been readily
forthcoming. There has been a slight
easing in the London position recently
which, however, may not continue.
Gordon and Gotch, Ltd., attention to
the ordinary shares of which has fre-
quently been directed, has lifted its div.
rate from 10 p.c. to 12 p.c. p.a. The
sharemarket wasn’t expecting it; quota-
tions were unchanged around 465. 6d.
for some time before the announcement.
Dealing in books, periodicals, advertising
service, etc., it was a remarkably steady
profit-earner throughout the depression.
Zinc Corp.’s distribution of 4s. 6d. (45
p.c.) per ord. share for the year to Dec.
31 compares with Is. 6d. for the preced-
ing term. The market ran up to 87s. for
the 10s, ords. last week, but slipped back
to 84s. 6d. later. Zinc Corp. recently
has been the most active of the Barrier
cos, as regards development; on recent
figures, it has the longest probable life
(over 25 years). Grade of ore is also
improving.
* * * *
Australian gold production for April
amounted to 91,5010 z. fine, compared
with 77,1160 z. in April, 1935. For the
first four months of 1936 output was
336,4670 z., as against 230,696 for the
same period of 1935, when production
was affected by the Westralian miners’
strike. Over 1,000,0000 z. should be
dug out of the ground this year, granted
freedom from labor troubles.
* * * *
Vic. gold yield for April was 7472
fine ounces, worth £52,607 with gold
round £7 an ounce. For the first four
months of the current year, gold won
totals 32,2350 z. fine, valued at £227,104,
an improvement of 66290 z. on the same
period of 1935.
* * * *
After Placer Development and Anglo-
Oriental Corp. had nibbled at the prop-
erty, Aus. Gold Development, through T.
R. Victor, has acquired a three months’
free option over New Pyrenees Alluvials’
holding, Avoca (Vic.), with right of ex-
tension for *a further three months.
Should the option be exercised, considera-
tion will be 50,000 f.-p. shares in a
£150,000 co. (capital in 300,000 10s.
shares) to be formed to work the prop-
erty. If pitting tests are satisfactory, it
is proposed to erect a dredge similar to
that of Cocks Eldorado. A.-O. Corp.’s
engineer estimated that a little more bor-
ing would disclose 25,000,000 c.y. of
ground with a gold content of 3gr. and
a recoverable value of 2.5 gr. (lid.) a
yard. Dredging depth is put at 60ft.
H* $ $ $
For a purchase consideration, if exer-
cised, of £20,000 cash, plus a tenth,
fully-paid, of the issued capital (to be
a minimum of £200,000) in the co.
formed, and plus the right to take up
at par contribs. to a nominal value of
£20,000, Clutha Development has
acquired from Beechworth Alluvials a
nine months’ option over its Harrietville
(Vic.) property. The area comprises 839
acres, estimated to contain 80,000,000
yards of alluviums. Clutha is a pup of
Placer Development.
* * * *
Morning Star (Wood’s Point), Vic-
toria’s biggest gold-producer last year,
is reorganising its plant at an estimated
cost of £lB,OOO. Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia are the general managers. A fine-
grinding and flotation section is to be in-
stalled to recover what has passed out
with the tailings in the past—2soo tons
averaging about 4dwt. has been stored.
Treatment is expected to return cost of
this portion of the plant (£6700) within
a year. Up to 50 tons a day will be treated
when the full reconstruction has been
carried out. From June, 1935, to May 6,
1936, 4600 tons was treated for 8931
fine ounces. Co. has £30,100 in hand,
mostly accumulated from proceeds of
gold won. One sixpenny div. has been
paid and another declared; there are
400,000 4s. shares out, 200,000 paid to
Is. 3d. The div. due on July 1 will call
for £lO,OOO. It has been difficult to esti-
mate ore reserves ; new floors between
800 ft. and 1200 ft. are being investi-
gated. On Burns’s floor 4500 tons is
ready for extraction. The contribs. sold
at 3s. 9d. at the week-end.
Of the £9OOO required to finance plant
and water-conservation expenditure on its
Malakoff property, Avoca Developments,
formed May, 1935, to test areas aggre-
gating 15,000 acres about Avoca (Vic.),
is to obtain £3OOO on loan from the State
Government. Remainder is to come
from a public issue of 1320 new £5
shares, payable £1 10s. each on applica-
tion and allotment, and balance in
calls not to exceed £1 per share
per month. Co.’s engineer, S. Hunter,
puts the yardage at 2,000,000, worth
2s. per c.y., or £201,500 gross. With
costs at Is. 2d. a yard, a profit of £82,000
is counted on after repayment of the loan,
or £13,500 p.a., as the proposed sluicing
plant (annual capacity 400,000 tons) is
expected to work out the property in
six years.
* * * *
Norseman Gold Mines (W.A.) con-
tinues to confound the bears. In the last
six months it has crushed 35,000 tons
of ore and cyanided 18,000 tons of tail-
ings for £91,000 worth of bullion. Work-
ing expenses absorbed £49,470, and plant
and development £20,254. Co. is paying
dividends, and was described recently
by a visiting overseas mining man as the
best of the locally-controlled goldmining
shows in the West. Ore reserves (162,000
tons) have more than doubled over
the past 14 months.
* * * He
Including a final dividend just de-
clared, Sons of Gwalia’s distribution in
respect of 1935 totals 4s. 6d. sterling per
share. An interim dividend on account
of the current financial term has also
been announced. Last year the co.
treated 105,820 tons for a return of gold
valued at £251,038 sterling—a decrease
of approximately 30,000 tons compared
with the previous year, due to the miners’
dispute and damage to the main shaft.
Last estimate of ore reserves was five
years’ supply for the mill, which has at
present a capacity of 12,000 tons
monthly, of an average grade of 30s. a
ton with gold at 85s. an ounce. To the
end of 1935 the co.’s mine produced bul-
lion valued at approximately £7,893,932
and paid £1,393,467 sterling in dividends.
A fine record.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development
Co., whose Moonlight group adjoins on
the north end that of the Wiluna Gold
Mines at Wiluna, claims that the past
year’s developments have been all that
could have been desired, and that.it has
the beginnings of a very fine goldmine.
Co. was formed in 1932 to acquire the
Moonlight from Claude de Bernales. It
has since purchased a large share interest
in Yellowdine Gold Development and
taken options on several properties on
the Westralian eastern and northern
goldfields. Expenditure on prospecting
and development last year amounted to
£25,000, and on plant, machinery and
mine preparation to £96,000. It reached
the production-of-concentrates stage a
month ago, and will have its first smelted
gold return from the Wiluna plant about
September.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie consumes a lot of water
as well as beer. During the six months
ended March 31 228,369,000 gallons was
used on its mines. As more old residues
are now being treated than during the
period mentioned, the next half-yearly
figures are likely to show a substantial
increase.
* * * *
Adelaide-floated and -controlled Lux-
all Gold Mines reports a lean time to
date. About £l6OO was spent during the
12 months ended March last in an un-
successful search for the yellow metal, and
at the end of the year assets had dwindled
to £lB cash and plant with a book value
of £2O. Co. is now awaiting a favorable
opportunity to get in some call-money
and make a fresh start. There is a
number of other small Adelaide con-
cerns in a similar fix.
* * * *
King Solomon’s Mines, Ltd., which
must not be confused with the African
(some time b.c.) venture, held its annual
meeting in Perth the other day. Direc-
tors’ report indicated that some money
had recently been spent on power and
pumping plant and draining a shaft, and
that some development was in progress.
No mention was made of gold yields,
but it was announced that a trial crush-
ing of 50 tons would shortly be put
through the mill. Shareholders’ chances
look hazy,
# * * *
Upper Sepik Gold Syndicate, hitherto
mostly interested in ~ a Sandy Creek
(N.G.) show —it proved a washout —has
acquired, through manager K. W. Steed-
man, two options. One, over the Rising
Sun, of 325 acres, extends five miles
along the Upper Watut and adjoins
Irowat Gold Alluvials; the other, 250
acres of dredging ground along three
miles of the Watut River, is located
between the holdings of Bulolo Dredging
and Upper Watut Alluvials. Tributors
have found the latter area profitable
working, and yardage is thought to be
“considerable.” Testing of the second
option will be undertaken when work
on the first is complete. After adverse
reports on the Sandy Creek property
early this year the shares fell to a few
pence on ’Change. They sold at 70s. last
week.
* * * *
Raub (F.M.S.) crushed 4728 tons for
1883 oz. during the four weeks to May
23, an average of Bdwt., as against
7.4dwt. in the preceding month. During
the year to March 31 recoveries aver-
aged B.o7dwt. The sharemarket is
slightly weaker around 16s. 6d.
* * * *
Mammoth’s plant at Tennant’s Creek
is expected to be completed in about two
months. Water, the point on which bears
raided the stock some time back, is to be
supplied at the rate of 25,000 gallons a
day—ample, the board reports, for the
co.’s requirements. Cyanidation is to be
the method—there are about 500 tons
of ore at grass. A sixpenny call has been
made.
*** / *
Tasmania Gold Mine, Ltd., is being
refloated in London, capital £450,000 in
1.800.000 shares of ss. each, of which
900.000 will be offered immediately to
reopen the Tasmania mine at Beacons-
field, closed down since 1914. The
Australian public will be offered
200.000 shares. The issue has been
underwritten. The Tasmanian Govern-
ment has agreed to make hydro-
electric power available to the value of
£7500, but the company will have to meet
the cost of the transmission line, ex-
pected to be £40,000, and to pay £5 a
horse-power in future. When opera-
tions ceased at the end of 1914 the old
company had been working for some
years without profit, owing mainly to
the enormous cost of pumping. It then
became a question of sinking another
100 ft. to cut, at the lower level, the exist-
ing reef, which was almost worked
out, or of closing the mine. A de-
mand for higher wages turned the bal-
ance of the scale. Since then, however,
the price of gold has almost doubled,
and with mechanical improvements in
pumps and cheap power it is considered
feasible to cope with the heavy flow of
water. In the old days 1,039,248 tons
yielded 828,3230 z. Dividends paid
amounted to £772,072. Opinion seems
unanimous that the lode is a true fis-
sure, and likely to live to great depth.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting:?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
sK * * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
*
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


MAN-v-MACHNE
'■ IH
mm
i .
■
■: -
msm
■ I i
i ■
wm
-
m
*
I «•
•. ; . .
EK
u
ISM
|P||a
> <
■; s :
■BP*
K!
Spy
1, i
m
■m
m
m
mm
f
■
WF
■I
H
■
HI
*<?
■
1
r»4
■
'' 11111111
1
" ~- .. ...; ;
■B
flHn
■
gBffig
VI
*
■■■■
m
M.
■■
aa
mmSSm ' Wmtm nun Mm nSmSgi ’ rx ~ w
mss
t
7$
u> >ur
&
The human machine needs power to
keep pace with those driving wheels
of modern times. Oatmeal Stout
provides vital sustenance and vigor.
“Here’s To’ee.”
Y 5
///
Ci
TOOHEYS LTD.,
Standard Brewery, Sydney.
Agents: VICTORIA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ABORIGINALITIES
“L.W.”: The broad
“sombrero,” because
of its shade-giving
quality, has made its
appearance in Queens-
land cattle country,
and is frequently
worn by genuine
horsemen. Outside a
pub at Springsure
(C.Q.) a man who
bore all the marks of
a dinkum old-time
cattleman, except for
the three - foot - wide
“sombrero” on his
head, came up to us
grinning. He was, I
learned, one of the
best horsemen in Cen-
tral Queensland.
“Well,” he said, “I’ve
got the big hat; now
all I need is a loud
handkerchief round
my neck and a pair of
blanky long spurs,
and I won’t be able
to ride a rockin’
’orse!”
sfc
“Aquila”: Lamb-
marking has started
on some Queensland
runs, and there the
eagles are gathered
together. On Too-
beah station 42 have
been caught since
Easter by trapping and poisoning. It
seems a pity that such a magnificent
bird—the wedge tail is the largest eagle in
the world —should be an acknowledged
public enemy, but he and lambs “is not
compatible,” as Mr. Jorrocks said of
hunting and shooting. On the other hand,
the bird is a great rabbit-slayer, and
accounts also for many of the smaller
marsupials which are often such a pest
to the pastoralist.
* * * *
“Woolhawk”; Some of these Old
Country shearers are not to be sniffed at
after all. Four Welsh barbers specially
engaged for the job drew big crowds
to Hyde Park in London to watch them
put through a mob of jumbucks. They
used machines, and an Australian with
long shed experience bossed the board.
The four averaged 60 sheep an hour, or,
say, 150 in a 10-hour day. That is
pretty good going anywhere, and the
sheep were Border Leicesters in heavy
fleece.
* * * *
“Centre”: Is there any reason, other
than custom or habit, why cows should
be milked only from the right side? On
a western N.S.W. farm I watched a
young Canadian walk to where a cow
was standing, and as the wrong side hap-
pened to be nearest he squatted down
and milked her from there. Told, me it
made no difference to him which side he
used, and added that he’d just as soon
milk from between the hindlegs as not —
he did it, too, on my calling what I
imagined to be his bluff. It was the same
wfith mounting his horse ; up or off from
either side, whichever happened to be
handiest at the moment. His explana-
tion was that his dad, an old cow hand
from Texas (U.S.A.), brought him up to
it, as he always did it that way himself.
He * ❖ *
“Debunker”: That feathered hypocrite
the kookaburra, whose secret iniquities
under the disguise of a public benefactor
have been oftentimes exposed in The
Bulletin, has been caught in the act
again. The headmaster of a Sydney
boarding-school reported to the police
that a number of valuable goldfish had
been stolen from a pond in the school
grounds. The usual squad of detectives
were “detailed to the case,” having first
been photographed by the Sydney press,
and were pondering on possible clues
near the pond when three Jacks arrived.
They dived into the pond and hooked it,
each with a goldfish, before an arrest
could be made.
* * * *
“Reefand”: The owner of Welcome
Change, a homestead near Horse Lake,
western N.S.W., bought a billygoat
from the Government Experimental
Farm near Nyngan to improve the strain
of his milkers. Billy shunned the com-
mon herd and sallied forth in search of
aristocracy. He became a fast friend of
the merinos. No amount of persuasion
or penning-up would induce him again
to consort with the goats. Tandora, a
neighboring run, possesses a young geld-
ing, which, after the operation, refused to
reassociate with horses. Attaching him-
“Name and address !”
“What for?”
“Obstructing the traffic .”
self to the cows he will not leave them.
His horse-sense apparently divined further
ill-treatment at the hands of man, so he
has sought bovine peace.
•i* ■!•'!«
“Notaden”: A colony of rainbow
birds have, all through summer and
autumn, had their dormitories in two
mangrove trees on a little islet in a South
Queensland estuary. Beautiful and grace-
ful, they assemble before sunset in a
supper-hunting battue of insects; then
turn in for the night with a medley of
twittering and calling which dies gradu-
ally down to the occasional sudden stir
and squeak of some nightmare-haunted
dreamer. With sun-up they are on the
wing, scattering to all points of the com-
pass for the day’s work of insect hawking.
Rainbow birds have a reputation as eaters
of bees, only partly deserved, but luckily
this is not a honey-producing district.
Even if it were I would be prepared to
take arms on their behalf against the ser-
ried ranks of indignant apiarists. For
one slain bee, they destroy 10,000
enemies of man and his works.
“Opal Lynn”: Kelly the Crow doesn’t
object to a fish diet as a change from
mutton and rabbit. At Karlgarin, in the
Westralian wheatbelt, fish were brought
from Hopetown, on the south coast, and
placed in several dams. These dams
were regarded as permanent water sup-
plies, owing to their splendid rock catch-
ments ; but this year’s record drought
dried them out, and the fish were left
floundering in the mud, a prey to the
crows.
“Kingsley Temple”: Rare though the
albino crow is, a rarer avis is the brown
crow, a specimen of which is in the
Queensland Museum. The plumage is
mainly a nigger brown, with the tail and
wings a shade lighter. Only three or four
specimens are known in Australia.
“Bourke”: Kelly the Crow is deadly
on escaped birds. In the Flinders Range
(S.A.) I saw a cockatoo parrot killed and
every particle of it eaten by four crows
within two minutes of its escape.
“Albarmount”: Crows won’t eat
poisoned rabbit? Bunkum. It’s a matter
of preparing the dish. Plaster your sub-
terranean mutton with liquid phosphorus
blended in fat.
* * * *
“Marlinspike”: An excited small boy
held out a little fish which he had
grabbed in the sand at the hissing margin
of the surf. “Oh!” he said, “I’ve hurt
his eye!” He hadn’t, although one of
them was near the corner of the creature’s
mouth. It was a young sole. For a while
after hatching they swim vertically, and
have their body organs arranged like
any other fish. Soon the left eye begins
to creep round the head until it comes
just above the angle of the mouth, which
twists, below, to the left to give the eye
more room. The nostrils also alter to
accommodate it more easily, until it
comes to rest close to and a little to
the rear of the right eye. As the change
goes on, the fish swims on what is really
its left side, and the fins are modified
correspondingly. Weak swimmers and
defenceless, adult soles are often taken
in deep open waters, and one species, at
least, breeds in the open sea.
* * * *
“Gryllus”; Again the frigate birds
have floated overhead on graceful scythe-
shaped wings ; again, within three days,
have the heavens opened over the coast
and the rollers roared in. Were I a
meteorologist I would make it a zoologi-
cal job. When the ants began to raid
the pantry I would announce that the
Guywhack Weather Cycle assured rain
within two weeks. With silverfish get-
ting to the binding of my odd volumes
of the old “Police Gazette,” I would put
in a hurry broadcast concerning a new
sunspot which promised mild conditions
in the near future. Whenever the missus
complained about the cockroaches eat-
ing the dripping I’d let off snappy pub-
licity stuff warning shipping of an im-
pending change, with approaching heavy
weather off Cape Leeuwin —that’s always
a safe fill-up, anyhow. I’m open to offers,
even on the Commonwealth’s £5 6s. 2d.
p.w. rates for qualified scientists, but
couldn’t accept a transfer to Canberra,
not knowing the local animals.
% * * *
“Porosus”: No need to call in experts
to discover why a recumbent crocodile
sits pretty on top of soft mud while
blacks “sink up to their buttocks.” The
considerable surface area of the croc.’s
figure supports his weight, distributing
it evenly over the mud, while the trifling
area of the blacks’ feet could not do so.
Any skater knows the trick of flopping
on his tummy and crawling out of dan-
ger when threatened with going through
thin ice, and the same dodge has saved
the lives of many caught in quicksands.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Those wasp-spider duels
described in recent issues were hunting
incidents of sand-wasps, gallant, warlike
folk in black and brilliant orange uni-
forms. They can run as fast as they fly,
and will tackle any spider, even the big,
dangerous funnel-webs. After paralys-
ing the prey by a sting in a nerve centre,
they carry it off to a tunnel several feet
long and as big as a mouse-hole, which
is gradually filled up with spiders and
cicadas, each containing an egg. If they
cannot carry if, they drag the prey, per-
haps a cicada many times their own bulk,
for a hundred yards or more. Other
kinds tackle crickets or caterpillars. For
a display of sheer arrogance, watch a
sand-wasp pull a cicada away from where
it is drinking sap on a branch, and take
long swigs at the sweet liquor before it
goes for the displaced roisterer if it has
been fool enough to stay round.
* * * *
“Talahua”: “Leirum’s” abos. with the
horn-rimmed eyewear (B. 8/4/’36) got
a better deal than a tribe I encountered
on the nor’-west coast; they all possessed
a cheap type of petrol cigarette lighter
which some enterprising lugger skipper
had unloaded on ’em as trade. Bowsers
being somewhat rare in those regions,
their duration —as lighters—was distinctly
brief, but their sponsor very wisely had
his craft miles offshore before the petrol
supply fizzled out. It was months later
that I struck them, and Binghi was still
sore —very sore.
* * * *
“Dau”: In opening coconuts (B.
13/5/’36) much depends on whether the
husk is still green or dried hard. If in the
green state, the newest arrival in tropic
isles soon learns to
clear the business
end of husk with a
tomahawk prelimi-
nary to chipping a
circle as big as
half a crown out
of the top, dashing
in a spot of gin
and sinking a satis-
factory thirst-
quencher. The
hardened husk is
another proposi-
tion. The natives
I knew did not use
the upright stick.
With one foot on
the nut on the ground they used a heavy,
short, black palm spear, and had the
overcoat off the nut sooner than it takes
to tell of it.
“Orient”: “Dungeness” (B. 6/5/’36)
wonders why some coconuts are fertile
and others are not. The explanation is
simple. Even as a hen lays eggs, so a
coconut palm produces coconuts. If the
palm has not been fertilised by male-
flower pollen, the fruit will not germinate
when planted.
* * * *
“Packbag”; Horses grow new hooves
all right (B. 8/4/’36), but every one that
I’ve seen is a bumblefoot. Once, when
a mare of mine with a stake-poisoned leg
showed signs of shedding her hoof, a vet.
slashed her coronet right round and bled
her in an endeavor to prevent this. It
made no difference.
“Bogaduck”: An eel I caught in the
Glenelg River (Vic.) was skinned, cut up,
and placed on a dish in the safe. At
intervals through the night queer noises
came from the safe, Which I put down
to prowling cats. When I lowered it
next morning the pieces of eel were
scattered all over the bottom. The cause
was made plain when I started to cook
them ; as soon as the first fillet touched
the hot fat it gave a convulsive jump and
flew out again. It was an uncanny and
unnerving business, but we forgot all
about it when breakfast was served up.
Those eels from the Glenelg River have
none of the muddy flavor common to
swamp eels, and we found them a dish
fit for a banquet.
TROUBLE ON THE RUN.
Since travellin’ book-clubs came our way
The boys have passed in poker hands;
They sop up reams of “Western” bilge
That deals in feuds and blotted brands.
And in this plague of cowboy stuff
That’s takin’ hold of Connor’s run,
A bloke soon won’t be on the job
Unless he packs a rope and gun!
It happened just a week ago,
When Connor rents a neighbor’s bore,
And steals a trick on Cullen’s team,
And starts a flamin’ station war.
“Aw, shucks!” the Old Man says to me,
“I’ll paint them critters black and blue!”
He clean forgets the Cullen boys
Was readin’ up their Zane Greys, too 1
The evenin’ meal was scarce begun
When Connor grabs his forty-four,
And yells: “ ’Ere come the Cullen skunks!
Them coyotes sure must want some more!”
It seems the Old Man got in first,
Before he knocked off work that day,
By shootin’ Cullen’s Jersey bull
And firin’ all his lucerne hay.
All hell went poppin’ after that,
And through a haze of powder smoke
We watched the Cullens blast our dam,
And poison all the bore-drain soak.
They cleared at dark, a couple short;
But didn’t leave no dead behind,
Exceptin’ half of Connor's stud—
At least, that’s all that we could find.
To-night the Old Man’s yellin’ blood,
And vows he’ll fill ’em all with lead;
But I’m all set to catch the mail
If I can get past Cullen’s shed.
For fifteen years I’ve kept the peace,
And earned a crust as station cook;
And though I take me liquor strong,
I like me “Westerns” in a book!
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


“Colon”: While mum and the girls
fussed over their letters and catalogues,
dad proceeded to light his pipe with his
solitary letter. “Who was that from?”
asked mum. “Oh, only a Mae West
from the bank manager,” grunted dad—
“ ‘Come and see me next time you’re in
town.’ ”
* :S * *
“Barangkali”; Does “Dungeness” (B.
13/5/’36) know of any authentic case
where the stonefish was responsible for
a man’s death? I struck five cases
among the Worgaifs on the Coburg
Peninsula, none of which was fatal; in
fact, the victims showed no ill-effects
after a poultice of chewed-up leaves was
applied to the wound. This remedy is
known throughout the Territory. When
one of our staff stood on a stonefish at
Lameroo Beach the agony was intense
until Tiger returned from Fort Hill
chewing a quid of dark olive-like leaves.
Whisky internally and a poultice of
Binghi’s medicine on the foot had the
patient smiling 30 minutes later.
* * * *
“Del Norte”: Despite The Bulletin’s
assertion (29/4/’36), Zane Grey will
not find in Barrier Reef waters bigger
and fiercer sharks than those he has en-
countered off the N.S.W. coast. Indeed,
it is extremely doubtful whether the true
game sharks occur in Barrier waters at
all. Tigers there are, in any quantity,
and also whalers, nurses and fiddlebacks,
but not by any stretch of the imagina-
tion can these representatives of the
“Joe Nark” family be regarded as game.
If any angler in those parts has hooked
and landed either a thresher or a blue-
pointer of any size (there are no other
game sharks in Australian waters) the
fact has not yet been made public. As
for the other slow and lumbering mon-
“Drop o’ beer don't 'urt nobody, Jan. My old man drank all 'is life, an
'e'd be over a 'underd if 'e Was livin' now.
sters, if Mr. Grey wishes to break his
own, world’s or whatever other record
he is out to break, he is in for a dis-
appointment. They breed ’em bigger
off Sydney Heads.
“Palmdale”; The boss had killed a
big dugaight or dukite, South Westralia’s
tiger-snake, and brought it over to the
hut to show it to the boys. After we’d
gazed our fill, he told the kids to take it
away somewhere, and off they went.
Later in the afternoon I walked out of
the hut, and noticed six feet of dugaight
stretched out in the sun, right in front
of the hut door. Mentally resolving to
dust the pants of the first kid I saw, I
walked over to the snake, picked it up
by the tail and heaved it well away. 1
broke even time getting inside the hut
when I saw Joe heading straight back
toward me with blood in his eye. The
shotgun dispatched dugaight-the-second.
* * * *
“C.C.C.”: Motoring along the Boulia-
road (W.Q.) a few days ago, I saw a fair-
sized brown bird shoot up out of the
grass. Thinking that
the flock pigeons must
have returned, I pulled
up to have a look at
him, and then saw that
he had a beak like a
temperance advocate
and no tail worth men-
tioning. Closer inspec-
tion revealed that the
grass on the high (and
very dry) downs was
full of jack-snipe. The
presence of such water-
loving birds in such a
place would seem to
suggest that they had
paused for a rest on
the Siberia track —
though the facts that
they were in first-class
condition and that a
few others have been
seen since seem to sug-
gest otherwise. If any
Abo.-ornithologist can guess where the
big mob went I’ll give my Webley and
Scott a pull-through and get after them.
H* V •**
“Furban”: During Allan and Stark’s
fishing trip to Peel Island, Moreton Bay,
Q., one of the members caught a crab and
a pigfish at the one time. A fierce fight
for the bait ended in the crustacean secur-
ing a perfect “Boston” on the pig. The
hook remained in the middle of the two,
becoming all bent-up like an ill-used
referee. The fall—into the boat —was
easy, the combatants being too intent
upon the job in hand to notice their
destination.
* * * *
“Wodoa”; The jackass kills snakes by
hitting them against hard objects, but
that treatment is not confined to the
reptilian portion of his menu. I’ve seen
Kooka hold large green frogs by the
hind legs and knock them against a rail.
The toughest titbit I’ve seen the laugher
devour was a lorikeet that had been
dead for weeks. Jack worked like a
steam-hammer for an hour beating the
corpse against the ground before the
carcass could be swallowed.
re
or keep silent while it is
possible to see a yard
ahead. Their non-stop
programme on moonlit
nights is rather disconcert-
“Yes, he just LIVES for the lottery results. He's going to have a real
blowout if he ever gets first prize."
ing, especially the mournful note of the
honey-eater. Nevertheless the unearthly
din of the s.g. and the sharp double note
of the honey-eater—he has two songs—
are splendid alarms for the early
morning.
H*
“The 0.D.”: “Quartza” has the bull
—or rather the rabbit —by the tail (B.
13/5/’36). Brer Bunny does his signal-
ling by thumping both hindlegs on the
ground, not striking his head on a burrow
roof. He does it by sitting on his rump,
drawing the legs from the hocks up,
and flicking them sharply down. Not
only have I seen them do it outside a
warren, but have heard answering thumps
inside. If “Quartza” waits near a
burrow some evening he’ll hear the
thumps in the open, where the nearest
thing Bunny could bump with his head
is the wide, blue sky. Can’t accept the
spacing, but the sound does travel. I
reckon it’s obtained by a reflex action
of the rump which, synchronising with
the striking hindlegs, releases air into a
tiny vacuum created by the shape of the
seat. A rabbit always sits up to thump.
* * * *
“Rusty”: At Murray Lock, No. 6,
above Renmark (S.A.), provision has been
made for fish to move upstream through
the wall of the weir. This “fish baffle”
was built in the wall close to one bank
and below the waterline. It consists of
a series of cubical chambers with con-
necting holes of varying diameters
between. The hole on the upstream side
is small, the next one is larger, and so on.
Holes are at diagonal corners of the
chambers to reduce the force of the water
flowing through. To test its use the baffle
was netted so that all fish moving through
were trapped. Seventy fish of various
sorts and sizes have been trapped in one
day. The effect on fish propagation and
distribution of the other 10 weirs and
locks where no baffles exist is not clearly
known, but the movements of bream
will not be restricted. With a depth
of 14in. of water pouring over the weir
and falling nine feet, bream have been
seen in clear water to rise through the
fall and reach the upstream side of the
weir. The ascent is not made in a spurt
of speed, but slowly and steadily. Neither
the cod nor the colopp has ever been
seen to perform this amazing feat.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Probably the most un-
common, though not the most specta-
cular, caves in Australia are a group situ-
ated in the Moore River district, about
100 miles north of Perth. Now some dis-
tance inland, they were originally ex-
posed stretches of rock on what was at
one time the seashore. Roosting place
for numberless centuries for myriads of
sea fowl they became deeply covered with
excreta. Then sand drift set in, covering
the deposits 50 feet deep. Time consoli-
dated the drift into sandstone, while the
same agency, assisted by percolating
water, slowly consolidated the guano
into phosphatic rock, which, as it crystal-
lised, gradually sank, leaving the sand-
stone 10 and 20 feet overhead; vast
vaulted caves. Thus considerable deposits
of the finest phosphate await exploita-
tion. But miles of loose sand around
them make horse or motor transport dif-
ficult, while on the coastal side an ex-
posed beach and a sea gridironed with
reefs puts out all hope in that direction.
So W.A. continues to bring phos-
phatic rock from Tampico and such
places.
“Retired Burglar”: Them flamin’
screws oughter keep their ’eads shut
about ’ow blokes in stir gets their little
bit of sport, instead of puttin’ pieces in
the papers about it. It’s all right fer
them ter find out about yer ’ome-made
crystal set an’ ’ow books is run inside,
but it’s crook ter give it away ter the
public. Loses us blokes public sym-
pathy, Lots uv old janes useter be good
fer coughin’ up ’arf a dollar if yer was
ter put over a bit uv “Term uv Ts
Nateral Life” w’en yer was takin’ a look
round for a likely window-job. Me old
cobber Billo useter be pertikler strong
on that lay, ’avin’ once cut both ’is wrists
bad through failin’ down with a coupla
bottles uv plonk wot ’e was fetchin’ down
ter the joint. “Hoh, me pore man,”
they’d sing out; “an’ them’s the marks
of them irons! ’Owhorful!” Now they
jest sniffs an’ says they don’t believe in
’elpin’ gamblers.
if H= * *
“Vleppo”: Touching on fraorteur. The
mercury fulminite in the primer will stand
reasonable pressure from the fuse end,
but accidents mostly occur when a twist-
ing motion which acts like the striking
of a match sends the cap off. Gelignite,
its common form, will stand consider-
able knocking about without exploding,
and .303 bullets can be fired through a
case of it with impunity. Too much is
also made of the tamping of holes. Old
beliefs and customs die hard, but frac-
teur, being one of the quickest of ex-
plosives (it explodes in one 2400th of a
second), expands into 2500 times its own
bulk, so that the line of weakest resis-
tance, the drill hole, tamped or not,
hardly matters.
if • * *
“Frog’s Hollow”: The latest stunt of
Bufo marinus, the giant American toad
imported into N.Q. to combat the
activities of the cane beetle, has given
corrugated brows to scientists. Three
male members of the original colony
have changed their sex and are now
sedately laying eggs, where once they
merely croaked.
A JUST RESENTMENT.
“I useter think,” said “Draught-horse” Dan,
and nodded meaningly to Bung,
“That those old coves who reckon things ain’t
like they were when they were young
Were talking through their necks. But, still
’n’ all, the more I look around
I find it easier to admit that some of their
idears are sound.
“The clobber that you buy these days wears
out too quick. Why, years ago
They manufactured things to last, an’ gave
you value f’r yT dough;
But now they’ll palm off anything as long as
it don’t look too bad,
An’ by-and-bye you realise the fact that you’ve
been prop’ly had.
“Now just you get an eyeful o’ this overcoat
that I’ve got on.”
Here “Draught-horse” Dan put down his pot.
“You see where all the linin’s gone?
It’s fadin’, too. Yairs, I got stung”—and
Danny ordered two more beers.
“Why, spare me days! I’ve on’y had the
blasted thing for sixteen years !”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mm
m*j
f'.&'.mwrtt, r,i Vfcr 1 - 1 -' ; /nT
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head tft ice; 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Dairy Problems.
“J. Want”: There was plenty of
straight talk at the recent Victorian dairy
factories conference, particularly from
S. M. Wadham, Professor of Agricul-
ture at Melbourne University.
“The industry,” the prof, said, “is only
playing with its problems. There are too
many factories—cream is often carried
past the doors of one factory for delivery
at another.”
N. S. Wales has been wrestling with
that problem for a decade and a half,
and factories have been eliminated, with
the result that the quality of N. S. Wales
butter has improved considerably by
comparison with other States.
“An efficiency is needed,” said the pro-
fessor, “which will enable butter-fat to
be payable at lid. per pound.” There
is truth in that remark, too. Many
farmers do make dairying pay on that
basis. They are the men who are not
afraid to cull their herds, to buy good
bulls, to work every inch of their land
thoroughly, to refuse to tolerate the mon-
grel cow with a miserable production,
and who, by pasture improvement and
hard work, get the last ounce out of their
land. Any European report on Austra-
lian dairying would be bound to say that
most farms are too large for the number
of cattle they carry, and that most herds
are too large for the amount of butter-
fat produced.
Prof. Wadham also thinks that the dis-
parity in prices between Australian and
Danish butter seems to indicate a prefer-
ence by Englishmen for a special “type”
of butter, not a special quality, because
Australian and Danish quality are much
the same. He thinks a Danish type could
be developed by research. Bulletin
writers have been hammering this home
for years. The secret of getting a market
is in giving buyers what they want, not
what the producer thinks they ought
to want.
It is time that Australian dairying
ceased, as the professor says, to “potter
round on the fringe of its problems.”
Drastic herd improvement, the elimina-
tion of the scrub bull and reduction of
manufacturing costs provide enough
scope for all the organising brains the
butter business at present possesses.
Contagious Abortion,
“Agamemnon”: Recent experiments at
Glenfield Research Station (N.S.W.) have
thrown light upon the spread of the
micro-organism (Brucella abortus) which
causes contagious abortion.
Contrary to accepted ideas, Mr. King,
the experimenter, believes that the dis-
ease is rarely spread by infected bulls.
Even when he recovered the causal
organism from seed taken immediately
after service, the cows served did not
abort. Further, he found that a bull
readily got rid of the organisms and
became perfectly healthy.
The bacillus is spread by horses soil-
ing pastures with discharges, but the
main source of infection is the eating of
grass contaminated by the foetal mem-
branes of aborting cows.
Mr. King has established that the
viability of the abortion germ is extremely
low, as it lives only four to six days
when exposed to normal weather condi-
tions. Even in deep natural shade the
organism never lives longer than two or
three months. This indicates the time
which must elapse before a pasture will
recover from infection.
It is also now established that the
disease may be spread to a slight extent
by infection through the skin, and this
should be guarded against when milking
carriers.
Taking a Blood Sample.
“Silky Bag”: The two diseases in
which a blood test is vital for diagnosis
are contagious abortion and pleuro-
pneumonia.
With the former regular six-monthly
tests arc possible if the dairyman does
the job himself, and for this complaint
such a period is not overshort.
The apparatus needed is a sharp pen-
knife, a pair of scissors (better if curved)
and one 2oz. or 3oz. and one \oz. clear-
glass medicine bottle for every member
of the herd. Test every animal regularly
“There you are , sir—only five hundred down and she's yours!"
except those that have already been
proved to be reactors.
Cleanliness is the keynote of success.
The bottles, after washing, should be
baked, together with their corks, in the
oven on a large plate for at least an hour
just prior to use. The knife needs to be
clean of all stains, etc.
There are two spots to bleed animals
easily—the ear and the tail. The former
is usually the freer bleeder.
A small vein runs horizontally out-
wards on the middle of the back ear
surface, and a slight knife stroke will
open this. Collect about lin. of blood
in the 3oz. bottle from each animal.
If tail-cutting is preferred the knife-
stroke has to be longer (lin.), deeper
(|in. to 3-16 in.) and spiral.
In both cases, all surrounding hair
must be clipped off with the scissors
before any cut is made.
The greatest trouble occurs in prevent-
ing the various bloods contaminating
one another—a job for patience and care.
When the larger bottles have all received
their quota, they should be laid to rest
at a small slant (30deg.). In 12 to 24
hours a clear serum collects on top of
the blood, whilst the latter coagulates.
This clear liquid is the stuff to decant
off into the 4oz. bottles and send away,
after labelling and recording correctly.
The clearer the serum the more satis-
factory will results be. And sending
serum is safer than sending blood, which
has to be separated later. This may be
unsatisfactory after the shaking-up in
transit.
Breed Cattle That Pay.
“Lion”: The quality of cattle offered
around parts of southern N.S.W. is
deplorable, and I am told it is getting
the same in other places.
Good beef cattle are scarce in pro-
portion to rubbish, and bulls showing
plenty of quality are the exception. It
is almost impossible to buy a good line
of good-colored beef breeds in some
places. Most of what are offered are
largely “Goulburn roans” or other
medium dairy stock.
During the last ten years S. Africa has
improved its scrub cattle beyond recog-
nition. Originally the change was brought
about by the leasing of stud bulls to all
and sundry, natives included, at a reason-
able figure. It is being maintained by the
passing of the Stock Improvement Act.
If things go on as at present, the level
of the S. African cattle industry will rise
to the height where there are no scrubs
at all.
The important feature of the S.I. Act
is that no bull can be owned or used
that has failed to pass the required
standard, which is getting stiffer each
year as the grades improve.
The beginner who possesses a poor
herd makes a study of the breed or
breeds most adaptable to his country and
conditions, and breeds accordingly, with
Government help, if necessary, on fair
lines, and without a mile of red-tape
attached to put up costs.
The progeny of the first generation
from a scrub cow by a stud bull possess
50 per cent, of the bull’s blood, the
second generation 75 per cent., and so on
until the seventh generation is reached,
which is absolutely pure.
It is essential that the selected bulls
have no bad qualities, otherwise the grad-
ing will be backward. We might well
give the S’African system a try here.
Age of Rams.
“Granoya”: Our experiences with old
and young rams this season have not
been the same as those of “Spring”
(B. 29/4/’36). At the early marking there
were 10 p.c. fewer lambs in a mob joined
to two-tooth rams than in a mob joined
to four-, six- and eight-tooth rams.
The mating season was very dry, and
the young rams lost condition and had to
be spelled. If ample green feed had
been available, results may have favored
the two-tooths.
As a rule, we use rams of mixed ages
with each flock. The two-tooths are
always active and tease the older rams
into working, while the older rams can
be relied on to work till the end of
mating.
Buy a few two-tooth rams each season
rather than big lots at intervals of three
or four years. This will keep up the
supply of lively youngsters and make it
easier to obtain an even line of rams.
Provided his rams are up to standard,
buy from the same breeder each year.
If he knows that you are a regular
customer he will do his best for you.
A New Blowfly.
“Sheepo”: Reports from several
N.S.W. districts about a green blowfly,
with septic-rendering properties, which
has been causing heavy sheep losses, co-
incide with information from the
Barcoo (W.Q.).
My informant there says treatment
only aggravates and hastens death. It
seems probable that the use of an arseni-
cal preparation would cause blood poison-
ing.
Deaths, however, within a few days of
strike where treatment was not tried
show how rapidly the septic-producing
toxin works.
The C.S.T.R. will doubtless get on the
job early.
Classing and Culling.
“Hortus”: It pays to class sheep, how-
ever small the flock, and whether
they are merinos or comebacks and
crossbreds or kept for wool, dual
purposes- or fat-lambing.
Classing spells better profits. The
best time is just before shearing,
when the sheep carry a full fleece.
But it can be carried out any time
after the sheep have six or eight
months’ wool.
Ewes showing faults in frame
should be culled along with ewes
producing wool not true to type.
Look out for wool lacking
strength, density, softness or char-
acter. Wool that is uneven or
dingy is not worth having.
It pays also to cull to build up a first-
class dairy herd, even if it takes
five years. Some cull out cows on pro-
duction only. Others disagree.
Type is really inter-connected with pro-
duction. The two rarely exist apart for
more than a generation or two. Most
dairymen will be satisfied to go by the
butter-fat figures.
Heifers yielding under 3001 b. of fat
on their first calf are disposed of on some
farms. This may be a bit high, but it’s
a good standard to aim at. All schemes
have their drawbacks. In this one, while
culling the poorer cows, you may also
be discarding the slow-maturers.
The latter may turn up trumps later,
but is it worth while waiting?
Maize Seed and Disease.
“Ghanam”: That seed-selection alone
cannot control fungus maize diseases is
the conclusion come to by E. T. Edwards,
the N.S.W. Agricultural Department
Biologist. He says it is only of help in
choosing disease-resistant types. This is
in opposition to the belief of many lead-
ing growers, but it stands to reason and
is true of other things than maize.
Cancer does not pass a man by be-
cause he is physically strong. Indeed,
many families of heartily strong and
otherwise healthy people have a heredi-
tary tendency to cancer, which, in some
forms, is a fungating disease. Also, even
Hackenschmidts sometimes have an
idiosyncrasy for some afflictions, catch
them when human matchsticks with


Leading the trend in Modern Transport
¥
m
w
mmmm
mn
m
I INTERNATIONAL
INTERNATIONAL'S NEW
ALL-PURPOSE UTILITY
Quick to appreciate the newest trend in
motor transport, motorists everywhere are
asking about . . . and buying . . . the new
International Utility. For here is a vehicle
that fills a long-felt want.
It is specially designed for those who want
something more than a beautiful motor
car. The International Utility is all this—
and very much more—tor it gives useful
carrying capacity for loads that would in
a very short time spell disaster to a motor
car or to the ordinary motor car utility.
This new International was designed from
the wheels up for rugged endurance, yet
its stamina and brute-strength are deftly
disguised in the sweeping lines and grace-
ful curves of the modern luxury car.
Telephone us today or come to our show-
rooms for a trial run. Note how the
International double-acting hydraulic shock
absorbers level out rough roads. Thrill to
the burst of surging speed from the famous
International engine—there's a smooth
70 miles an hour tor those who want it.
Look over the high-class finish of bodywork
and upholstery—then you will marvel at
the amazing low price of this beautiful all-
purpose vehicle.
CHASSIS PRICES:
113" wheelbase
£267
1 25" wheelbase £275
(Plus tsxV
19-inch wheels, for extra
clearance, also available.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
INTERNATIONAL
UTILITIES
chests of paper miss them, and die of
them when frail apologies for manhood
go through them without losing a break-
fast.
Apart from hereditary tendency, how-
ever, the clean man in clean surround-
ings, whether weak or strong, always
stands less chance of being stricken than
the dirty one and of weathering through
when struck.
Commonsense suggests that the same is
equally true of plants. It is a good
starting-point to use maize—and other —
seed with a disease-resistant heredity.
But it should be planted in sanitary sur-
roundings—fields in which there is
healthy nourishment kept up through
crop rotation ; in which time is allowed
between maize crops for any existing
disease to dje out, and in which old stalks
and other rags and rubbish of last
season’s planting have been thoroughly
burnt out.
Lastly, seed needs its morning bath
as much as any human. Organic mer-
cury dusts seem to be the “Lifebuoy” of
the corn seed. Experiment has gone far
enough to suggest that if all maize seed
were subjected to treatment with them
there would be less complaint about the
types of vegetable “B.O.” which are not
only unpleasant, but make up to 60 p.c.
and 70 p.c. of plants in old-established
maize fields obnoxious and unpayable.
That was the percentage range of basal
root and stalk rot observed in N. S.
Wales last year, and there were plenty
of maize fields with 25 p.c. to 30 p.c.
Pastures Improvement.
“Pick”: An example of how pastures
can be improved by cultivation and the
introduction of artificial grasses is pro-
vided by Gundowringa, Crookwell
(N.S.W.).
When C. E. Prell bought the station
20 years ago, the country was fair only,
with areas of poor quality. The average
rainfall was 28in. There were periodical
droughts. Barely two poverty-stricken
sheep subsisted to every three acres.
Sowing the paddocks with sub. clover
without fertilisers proved a failure. The
clover provided a picking, but was soon
fed off and disappeared. Broadcast again
with a hundredweight of superphosphate
per acre, it rooted healthily, but the
growth failed to be desirably permanent,
A tractor-drawn drill trailing a heavy
pastures harrow was then used to scarify
the sutfaces At the same time the drill
distributed, with a hundredweight of
super, per acre, a bushel of summer oats,
101 b. perennial rye, lylb. phalaris tube-
rosa and 41b. of sub. clover.
The effect was magical. The area
became coated with the luxuriant grasses,
Winter pastures became as prolific and
succulent as those of spring in favored
localities. It became possible to run
three sheep to the acre. They are always
fat and robust.
Like an oasis in the desert the station
stands green in the surrounding unculti-
vated sheep-runs.
Lucerne in the N.S.W. Wheat Belt.
“Granova”; N. S. Wales wheat-belt
farmers often make the mistake of sow-
ing lucerne on land which is not good
enough for wheat. A good stand of
lucerne is valuable enough to justify the
use of the best land, although it is advis-
able to retain the land close to the home-
stead and nearest to rail for cultivation.
Lucerne is much easier to establish
and does not require cultivating so often
if sown on friable soil; a medium loam
with a clay subsoil is suitable.
It is difficult to get a good germina-
tion on clay soils, but once the crop is
established it will last longer and grow
for longer after rain, particularly on the
red self-mulching clay.
It is essential to sow lucerne on well-
drained soil; in the wetter districts the
hills are sown in preference to the flats.
It is better to sow a small area each year
on well prepared fallow than to put in a
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


If * ou
BOOTS ....
HERE IS JUST THE
ONE YOU NEED!
Many men still prefer to wear
Boots, and for this reason
Abbey’s stock this good-
looking, medium-weight boot.
The performance you get is
measured by good fit, more
comfort, and years of extra
wear. Remember, Abbey for
satisfaction—always.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE ST.,
224 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.’ 1
WAS 2.
PRICES:
BLACK, 39/6
BROWN, 42/-
SP
IoTT* n
THEY ALL WANT IT,
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
.ill!
* m
The World's Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company.
Incorporated in 1923, N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS, LTD., has planted 163,000
acres with over 130,000,000 trees, and
built 250 miles of roads.
AMOUNT SUBSCRIBED
FOB FORESTRY
INVESTMENTS
£4,000,000
RESERVE FOR MAIN-
TENANCE and BEAEi- non nnn
SATION (APPROX.) .. XI,UUU,UUU
Mill sites have been selected and secured and
internal transport system surveyed.
Initial Sulphate Pulp and Paper Making
Plant Secured.
While there is still an opportunity to partici-
pate in the Company’s investment issues of
£3O Investments, apply for full particulars to:
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
(Incorporated in New Zealand)
Head Office for Australia:
KEMBLA BUILDING,
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
No connection with any
other Forestry Company.
m
y
WATCH
CUR MONEY
GROW
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, O/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
P.B.
LICK
IS THE BEST
for ALL STOCK. It is manu-
factured on the formula of the
New South Wales Stock Depart-
ment, contains 50 p.c. Sterilized
Bonemeal, and is recommended
by all Veterinary Officers.
P.B.
STERILIZED
BONEMEAL
100% Pure.
Write for Free Pamphlets to —
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
Write for free copy 4, FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
big lot at one time. If you happen to
strike a bad season, a lot of expense may
go for nothing.
It is a good policy to sow about 50
acres in a 200-acre paddock. Fence off
with a light fence, and when the lucerne
is eaten down shut it off to give it a
fresh start. Too constant stocking has
ruined more stands of lucerne than any
other cause.
Making Hay.
“Hortus”; Nitrogen is the “flesh-and-
muscle-former.”
Proteins in the food are practically the
only source of nitrogen available to the
animals. Why rob them of these by
poor haymaking?
For grass-hay work, there is one
golden rule: Cut early.
Some dairymen mow rye-grass and
clover each year for silage, when the
heads are comparatively undeveloped.
These men cut the same type of pasture
for hay about three weeks later, when
ils greenness has begun to go. Why
not at the ensilage stage?
On feeding tests the silage beats the
dry hay, despite the fact that the fermen-
tation process has destroyed nearly half
its protein.
Of course, most people go for “quan-
tity” and wait until grass has “devel-
oped.” In effect, they exchange “pro-
tein” for the more weighty “fibre,” which
has no feeding value. It merely pro-
motes healthy digestion, but not in
excess.
Good lucerne hay contains up to 14
p.c, protein. The primest, leafiest
lucerne goes sometimes to 20 p.c. A lot
depends on how the crops are tackled
in spring. The bulky first-cut hay from
the lucerne and clover paddocks is mostly
ripened winter grass. Get rid of this
old grass early by mowing when the
heads are just fully formed.
The grass will rot away quickly at this
stage. It forms a great nitrogen manure.
Another result of this early mowing is
that it helps to kill out the winter grasses
in the stands.
Some say the fallen grass is a nuisance
later when raking. Normally, not much
is left by that time. Others say it causes
too much delay. Rarely is the first cut
of lucerne or clover delayed more than
a fortnight. Anyhow, the delay proves
its worth. You get a much cleaner cut,
and the growth is much more vigorous
and leafy. With lucerne, the highest per-
centage of protein develops when the first
flowers appear, and the peak period lasts
two or three days only.
Rake up as soon after cutting as pos-
sible. Remember that protein and vita-
min destruction is not severe in the wind-
rows. The hand-forked cock gives the
best result. The hay cures more evenly.
It colors better. Make cocks narrow and
high. Don’t rush hay into the stack
before it is properly dry. Some are
afraid of leaf falling. They need not
worry. A well-made, deep cock will
remain unaffected by sunlight for quite
a time. Go in for early-morning carting-
in. The overnight moisture has tough-
ened the hay in the cocks. Get it in
before the heat causes dryness and leaf-
fail.
Early Pruning.
“Granny”: If pruning is delayed in a
large orchard, the ploughing is also
delayed, and may clash with early spring
spraying. Some hold that early pruning
induces a tree to burst into leaf during
a mild spell in early winter, but the risk
is small.
With young stock the pruner should
aim at developing a strong, well-shaped
frame, sturdy enough to carry a heavy
load of fruit. Much damage can result
from a heavy crop on weak, overlong
branches.
Study the tree’s characteristics.
Peaches, for instance, bear only on the
previous year’s growth, and do not pro-
duce fruiting spurs like apples and
pears. Where spurs are over-plentiful
on pome-trees, thin them out. This spur
pruning increases production, especially
on poor-bearing stock (usually caused by
too profuse blossoming). A better sample
and more even crops are the rewards for
judicious spur pruning.
Keep fruit buds close to the main
leader and flow of sap, allowing room
for the fruit to hang. There are no hard-
and-fast rules, except to have sharp
secateurs. Soil, climate, type of tree,
manuring, cultivation and spraying all
have to be considered by the pruner out
to do a good job.
Hints for the Farm.
“Vestris”: Always leave two or three
teeth near the handle of a new saw un-
touched. They don’t do any work and
serve as a gauge by which to set and
sharpen the other teeth.
“Zedo”; To remove the hair from
cowhide, soak it for two or three days in
a bath of 11b. lime to lOgals. water.
Hair and flesh then come off easily.
“Mount”: A chaffbag with alternate
threads withdrawn makes a good emer-
gency saddle cloth. It washes easily —■
keep it clean.
“Ghanam”: It is wise when worm-
drenching sheep to set aside a few
animals as controls. Give these a dose
and leave in the yard overnight to see
if they suffer any ill effects before you
try the medicine on the big mob.
To cleanse sheep-dogs of
worms, starve the animal overnight.
Then give a pill of Igr. calomel, lOgr.
areca nut and eight drops of male-fern
extract. Wash down with a good dose
of castor oil —a tablespoonful for a
sheep-dog, less for small dogs. Repeat
in 10 days.
“N.T.”: To clear white-ants out of
trees, dig a trench 4in. deep and 6in.
from the trunk. See that the soil is dry
—if necessary warm the trench with a
fire. Scatter 2oz. of paradichlorobenzine,
which can be bought cheaply at any
chemist’s. Then fill in the trench.
Repeat after a few weeks.
“Leggo”: Bamboo grows easily almost
anywhere. Simply put in the stools with
a few struts outside to keep plants on
the edge from leaning. For home-made
water-pipes, you can’t beat bamboo. It
won’t rot in the ground. Large sizes,
split lengthwise, make good improvised
guttering. A small plantation will pro-
vide fowl troughs, broom and rake
handles and material for windbreaks and
furniture.
“Silky Bag”: Mulga oats can be cut
for hay when very green, while the grain
is hardly formed, without any sign of
bitterness in feeding to dairy cows. This
green hay, though less in weight, has
over twice the protein value of normally-
made oaten hay.
“Cimex”: There is no doubt that
Noogoora (B. 20/5/’36) will produce an
irritating skin ailment. A N.S.W. stock
inspector says that in his district men
cutting burr no longer suffer, as one
of them found out that washing the
hands and arms in water in which corned
beef had been cooked allayed the irri-
tation and prevented further trouble.
“Stump Jump”: A quick, effective and
cheap treatment for the common horse
ilch or scabies is to scrub a wash of
enough soft soap to make one table-
spoon of kerosene and half-bucket of
water lathery on to the scabby patches
every day.
“Bimbo”: A cheap and handy wire-
strainer can be made from 2ft. of
piping. Bore a small hole through the
middle to take the wire. Then near each
end bore a yin. hole to take a short iron
bar with which to turn the strainer.
“Bimbo”: C. N. Cell, of Glenmaggie
(Vic.), suggests cheap low-grade honey
as a profitable foodstuff for dairy
cows. His stock (28 cows) were in low
condition last season owing to the hard
winter, but picked up when fed chaff
damped with honey syrup made by dilut-
ing the honey with six times its volume
of water. After the third feeding, pro-
duction started to increase, and in a
short while reached the highest level ever
attained at that period of the year. In
previous years bran and chaff had been
fed.
“X.T.”: Queensland will face its usual
sectional drought this winter —conditions
in the south-west, the Darling Downs
and the rich Maranoa are already severe,
and many graziers are busily cutting
scrub. The North and Central Queens-
land, which went through their purgatory
a year or so ago, have plenty of feed and
water—though with an extra helping of
blowfly in some areas. Graziers in the
stricken districts are already looking for
agistment with one eye on the Govern-
ment. And, of course, by the time they
have collected their skeletons, some other
district will be plunged in gloom. It
may be heroic to be a fatalist, but it
seems time that every property pinned
up the old motto “Heaven helps those
who help themselves.” The order of
things under which schemes of fodder
conservation are regularly devised and
dropped after droughts are over instead
of before needs reversing.


SMOEE-OH!
“Baltimore Communist party has started
a yachting club.” — Cable.
“Red sails in the sunset.”
dr *b -b *b
“ ‘Bow-legs,’ says a physician, ‘are not now
so common as they once were.’ ”
Few and far between,
•b *b *b *b
“ ‘What is your opinion about painted lips
in women?’ asks a correspondent.”
Personally, we’re right up against
them!
•b *b *b *b
“ ‘Women prefer serious men to frivolous
ones,’ says a writer.”
But in any case they prefer men.
•b *l* *b *b
“ ‘During the last depression sales of alco-
holic drinks scarcely decreased,’ says a statis-
tician.”
Beering up well under the strain.
•b -I* *b *b
“Bishop Brown served in the Great War and
was wounded in 1920.” — ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
Evidently by a shell with a delayed-
action fuse.
*b *b *b *b
“ T like nothing better than crooners,’ says
a woman writer.”
Most people like nothing better, too.
*b *b *b *b
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
II. — Leaving the Garage,
The sound of the crash against the
garage wall will have brought the kids
around, and they
will swarm into the
garage with “Gee!
Dad’s teaching mum
to drive,” or “What
happened, dad? Did
you run into the
wall?” What you
won’t hear will be a
“Co easy on her windpipe. She's got to croon in the next act."
whispered “The old man’s gamer than
Ned Kelly” ; “I’ll bet he busted his sides
laughin’ when he got an eyeful of the
bumper bar” ; “I’ll bite him for my zack
for the pitchers now.”
It would be tactical here to suggest
that the children get in the back of the
car, reasonably expecting that she’ll take
the opposite view and forbid it. But the
odds are that she’ll agree for once, fear-
ing that they might be run over, so
you’ll be out of luck, and will perforce
have to resign yourself to the inevitable
juvenile interpolations.
After backing a few feet and belting
the front bumper bar back into its
approximate place with a hammer (as it
has to be fixed, don’t worry about a few
more dents), hand the wheel over to the
wife again and take your place beside
the hand brake.
Now carefully explain the use of the
two floor pedals—it will perhaps be
heavy going, with the conversation some-
thing like this:
“That pedal near your right foot is
the foot brake. You”
Thus far, all well. Now comes a
scuffle from the back seat, followed by a
howl of pain.
“Gimme me pea-shooter!”
“800-hoo! Mum, Wally kicked me in
the shins.”
“Pimp!”
“But he’s got me pea-shooter and
won’t”
“I’ll give you pea-shooter if I get near
you. Arthur, give Alfie his pea-shooter
back at once. Now another word from
any of you and I’ll”
“ —and this pedal by your left foot
is the clutch. You use that for chang-
ing”—
“He’s taken it again, mum.”
“Shut up, you freckle-faced booby, or
I’ll pass you one”
“Arthur! If I have to speak to you
again Henry! It’s your place to
chastise them—you let them do just as
they like.”
“But, my dear, I’m trying to teach
you how to change gears”
“Yes, but isn’t the bringing up of the
children more important than these gear
things?”
Here a sharp stinging sensation in the
back of the neck will proclaim that the
pea-shooter has been in action, though
by the time you look around all three kids
will be wearing blandly innocent expres-
sions, and the weapon will be invisible.
S. W. K.
,T. A v
The Uplifters.
Putting the Kick in Boxing.
“The American heavyweight won on pints.”
—Boxing note.
Punchem opened very aggressively
with a couple of quick mugs; but
Biffer retaliated with half a bottle of
lager. The second round was very tiring
—for the barman. At the end of the
third Biffer was a bare half-gallon in
front. Soon Punchem landed a well-
aimed glass—right down his own throat.
Then the contestants settled down in
earnest. The only sounds that could be
heard were the poppings of corks and the
èe
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XVII. — Melbourne’s Favorite Sport,
Melbourne is the storm centre of a
game which hundreds of thousands of
followers call “foot'ie,” but which visi-
tors from Sydney slightingly refer to as
“Australian Rules.”
It rages from May to October. On
Saturday arvos. every man, woman and
child (with the exception of a few
players) watches it, and from Sunday to
Friday every man, woman and child talks
it, reads it and thinks it.
When I arrived with the Whipsnoodles
the campaign was in full blast.
Sir Percy and 1
dropped in for a
friendly haircut and
shave. When Sir
Percy was all
lathered up the
barber remarked;
“Well, the Tigers’ll
clean ’em up to-day,
don’t y’ reckon?”
Sir Percy looked
as blank as the lather
would permit,
“I said ‘The
Tigers’ll clean ’enj
up to-day,’ ” re<
peated the man with
the razor.
“Er —quite! ” re-
plied Sir Percy
politely.
“So you don’t
think they will?”
accused the barber.
“I s’pose y’ think
Souths’ll lick ’em.”
“Er—l’m not in a
position to say,”
mumbled Sir Percy
latherishly.
“Not game, y’
mean,” sneered a
large, brutal-looking
man with a flat
nose, sitting against
the wall. “Well,
I’ve got two bob to
say they won’t.”
By this time most
of the lather had
rè
To An Offended Lady.
A man will always give a maid
Some pretty nonsense-name.
According to his work or trade.
Should I not do the same ?
“A saucy, spanking craft,” I’ve heard
A sailor call his girl;
The jeweller finds a happy word
To name his sweetheart “Pearl.”
The farmer’s lass is called in jest
“My chicken” or “my peach” ;
Such pet names please the fair ones best,
And win a smile from each.
Forgive me, love. I did but try
Some pretty name to tell;
I meant no harm, I swear —but I
Breed cattle-dogs to sell.
H. K. A.
Prize-winners.
“Only a third prize in this week’s draw-
ing,” said my wife gloomily.
Such blows of fortune come to us all
occasionally. I decided that as a man
it was my duty to meet it bravely.
“Ah, well! We can’t win the first
prize every week,” I remarked cheerfully;
and I looked round at the luxuriously
furnished flat. “After all, the old Rolls-
Royce will do us until our turn comes
round to win another first. We ought to
collect that two-fifty from the Bangwell
Soap competition next week ; and that
hundred from the Crackett Furnishings
"You see, the rope's too short to go round me Waist."
competition will come on the following
Monday.”
“We may not win,” she said gloomily.
I patted her on the shoulder.
“Come, come!” I said. “You mustn’t
be despondent. Of course, I know it is
disappointing, only winning second and
third prizes and a few hundreds and
fifties in the last few months. Still, you’ve
got to admit that we haven’t done badly
since I retired from business to set up as
a professional prize-winner. There is
this home—rather luxurious, isn’t it?
Our yachts, our cars; we have all we
want. I’ll buy you that diamond neck-
lace when the Bangwell Soap comes off.”
She smiled bravely through her tears.
“I don’t mind waiting, dear,” she said.
“Only I’m frightened. What a terrible
thing it would be if we only won a paltry
hundred or so in lottery after lottery!”
“Oh, the luck couldn’t be as bad as
that! ” I exclaimed. But her words had
stirred a gloomy foreboding in my heart.
Supposing
1 shook myself free of such ruinous
daydreaming. Yes, that was my wife’s
voice. She was entering with the
afternoon paper in her hand,
and there was excitement in her
tones.
“We’ve won a prize!” she
cried. “Fancy, after all these
years, we’ve at last won a prize!
That means our luck’s turned.”
I leaped to my feet and strode
over to her. It didn’t take
much of a stride in our small
quarters.
“Here, 55207! ” she cried. “A
five-pound prize! How much
is that each among the six of
us?”
é
H.M.
Genesis and' Revelation.
When first your lips you let me kiss,
In phrases shy and terse
I wrote, to mark that moment’s bliss,
A callow four-lined verse.
Since then we’ve petted ’neath the moon
And dallied in the dark;
We’ve grasped each golden chance to
spoon
In arbor, lane and park.
We’ve flirted, cuddled, billed and cooed
In cranny, niche and nook ;
And from the knowledge I’ve accrued
I now could write a hook !
P. O. M. C.


A Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:—
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
iLiu^rpwreo
er
?ucvf
THE PEOPLE IN THE STORY.
Joyce Manson, a doctor, young and
attractive, keen on studying tropical
diseases.
Murdoch, Resident Commissioner —
“although that doesn’t mean as much as
it sounds”—of the Fly River district to
which Joyce is appointed.
Butts, “a taciturn Australian” help-
ing Murdoch do his job of seeing “that
a bunch of natives go ahead and clear
some land they’ve leased.”
They are the only whites in Murdoch’s
little clearing.
AND THE HAPPENINGS SO FAR.
Joyce finds the atmosphere of the jungle
absorbing her—not merely the back-
ground to her work she expected it to be,
disappointing. Murdoch warns her to
go away before she becomes a part of it;
before they both find themselves growing
towards each other, impelled by loneli-
ness and a desire to escape from thoughts
which won’t be bounded by the wall-of
trees about the clearing. Joyce remains,
and Murdoch, away on an expedition,
determines to return and declare his love
for her.
e
èr
supported two or three books, a dish of fruit and
a pipe lying on its side in a ruin of tobacco ash.
The anthropologist lay with closed eyes and
breathed long and gently in the quieter stages of sleep.
One hand moved as he dozed, circling his face among
attentive insects. Presently it came smartly against
his cheek, and he sat up in surprise, blinking at a
spot of blood on the palm of his hand.
Joyce had been watching him from the doors of
the dining-room. She came forward at this violent
awakening and leaned against a chair near by.
“What did you catch that time?”
“A man-eater. All blood. Behold his remains!
He sighed as he lay back against his pillows.
“I never get used to them. I don’t mind the heat,
and in a way I’m grateful to the silence —although
there’s quite a lot of noise out here when you get
used to the place. I even put up with last week s
rain. But I don’t like mosquitoes.”
“They come to know you in the end, I think.
But they’re a nuisance, all the same. They make you
take too much quinine. Why do you have so many
pillows? Your head is sitting out too far from your
shoulders. It’s a wonder you’re not humpbacked.”
He put his hands behind his head and looked at
her through half-shut eyes.
“It’s merely that I like to be comfortable,”
“Sometimes I think you’re lazy.”
His eyes twinkled.
“My dear Joyce, you must be fair to me. I’m
not lazy, really; but I’m a great conserver of energy.
When I’m not doing anything important I lie low.
Then I have lots of energy when I really need it.”
She shook her head over him, but her eyes were
indulgent.
“You’re an easygoing person, and you can’t deny
it. Surely you didn’t expect to stay here a few weeks
without disclosing yourself to me?”
“Not for a moment. Only a fool would expect
to escape those calm eyes of yours; and life in these
places breeds up a dangerous intimacy. I’m beginning
to feel that you know me better than I want to be
known.”
“I wonder. You haven’t the look of a man with
guilty secrets. And you don’t seem to suffer much
under my inquisition.”
“I like it,” he admitted frankly. “You have a
way of drawing my life-story from me so easily that
I begin to take pride in my invention. With so atten-
tive a listener it is impossible not to embellish a little
here and there. And, after all, the average human
life is such a poor affair when you begin to search
your mind for details,”
“I thought as much,” she nodded. “And yet you
will expect me to go on believing you. Why do you
look,.like that?”
“Because an interruption is coming.”
She turned in time to see Murdoch walking up
the verandah steps.•
“Good afternoon,” she said. “I’ve seen very little
of you lately.”
Murdoch pulled a cane chair along the verandah.
“You look as if you mean to go on standing;
but perhaps you won’t mind if I sit. No ; I haven’t
been here much lately. I’ve been busy,” He jerked
his head towards the river. “Over there.”
He was filling his pipe, and he kept his head bent
over his tobacco-pouch. ;
“ ‘Over there’ sounds casual enough,” said Burn-
ley. “But it’s dangerous country, if I remember
rightly.”
“Dutch country. But there’s danger anywhere
around here if you’re not careful.”
He looked up from his pipe.
“You’re wise to stick around the clearing. It’s
the safest corner in the country.”
Burnley smiled faintly.
“Safety first,” he murmured. “I’m glad you
agree with me.”
Joyce turned her grey eyes on Murdoch.
“Mr. Burnley doesn’t stay here because he’s afraid
of going further. If anyone is to blame it’s I. A little
pleasant company was badly needed in this place,
and I’ve done my best to keep him here. Mr. Burnley
knows that, and he doesn’t like to disappoint me.”
“I don’t blame him for staying. It’s not every
man who comes into the jungle to look at black heads
and naked savages and finds a young and attractive
white woman to soothe his eyes. But most of the
scientists I’ve met out here have been proof against
that sort of thing. It always seemed to me that they
were glad to be free of women for a while. Most
of the time they seemed to find their ideals of beauty
in some withered sorcerer or an old woman with
clay pipes through the lobes of her ears.”
“Mr. Murdoch,” said Burnley, sitting up in his
chair, “you make me ashamed. I am false to my
kind.”
Murdoch looked at him sharply, but Joyce inter-
vened.
“There’s no need to be ashamed,” she said. “I’m
going to keep you here as long as I can. It’s only
right that I should be considered a little, too. Just
think of the long months I’ve had to spend here
alone.”
“It’s your own fault,” muttered Murdoch.
He was thinking: “She looks at him as if she
owned him.”
“Of course it’s my own fault. But that doesn’t
alter the facts.”
“Anyway,” went on Murdoch, puffing at his pipe
and looking at Burnley, “when are you thinking of
starting out? I can let you have a few men, but I
can’t help you unless I know when you’re going.”
“I’ll go to-morrow, if that’s convenient for you."
“Suits me well enough. I’ll make arrangements.
Are you still keen to make for Lake Murray?”
“Keener than ever.”
“Then I won’t try to change your mind. You
scientists will risk anything for your work. Isn’t that
right?”


“Not all the time. We’re human beings first, you
know. And when we become scientists we have our
schools and our cliques and controversies. But you
mustn’t take me tea seriously or measure scientists
in general against me. I’m not altogether the real
thing.” .
“I thought there was something different about
you. Nevertheless, you look as if you lectured at
some university somewhere; and I thought I saw
a string of letters after your name on the papers that
introduced you.”
“Asa matter of fact I do lecture occasionally,
although I haven’t a chair. And I even have a few
letters, as you noticed. But I also have a little money,
left me by a misguided relation. Even after the death
duties had been deducted there was enough to stifle
a lot of ambition in a fellow of my temperament.
It was a great problem for me. I knew that a man
should work, and 1 had vague tendencies to be indus-
trious ; but a natural indolence had to struggle against
the pressure of money. My income was there, whether
I wrote or lectured or spent my days and nights flut-
tering from drawing-rooms to theatres and night clubs.
And here, Miss Manson, I think you should give me
full credit. I decided to work.”
“It was an instinct of self-preservation,” she pro-
nounced. “You must have known that if you didn’t
do something important you would go to seed”
“And develop superfluous tissue,” put in Mur-
doch. “Always guard against that, young man. It’s
the mark of final degradation.”
“Not necessarily,” went on Joyce serenely,
“although it’s unpleasant and usually can be avoided.
But I’m glad you decided to work.”
“I was doing studies
in anthropology before
my windfall, and after
the first upheaval—an
exhausting time —I
settled down again. I
preferred to work away
at my book on ethnic
types of Melanesia to
dashing around spend-
ing money. You get
into a strange fever
when you begin to
think too much about
spending. I found that
my nerves treated me
strangely. The air was
full of electric disturb-
ance ; the sunshine was
different; I was afflicted
with a desire for speed
—a sure symptom of
nervous disorder in
these days. So I re-
pulsed the enemy, and
got down to work” —-—-
“And wrote a
book!” exclaimed
Joyce. “You’ve been
telling the
truth, after all.
But I think
you must have
seen that
money was
going to make
your work
worth while.
Poverty is
the bane of
science.”
“I rea 1-
ised this more
slowly than I
should have
done, and this
has forced me
to doubt myself more than once. Science must
be a passion if it is to come to anything
m an individual life; whereas with me the
attraction is intermittent. I have my times of
doubt, and even of disgust. Yet I have not been
without signs of success. My book was received quite
kindly by the two or three hundred who read that
sort of thing. There was even a mild controversy
over my line of research, and my trip out here is
really a result of it. I was bored after finishing my
job, and I liked the idea of travelling. But not the
usual kind of tourist trip. I wanted the sea, to begin
with—a quiet trip on a quiet ship, and something to
do at the end of the voyage. So I came out here,
There won’t be any sorrow among anthropologists nor
a great loss to science if I never gather my materials,
But it’s all the better for me if I can keep on with
my job. You see how it is?”
Joyce looked at him kindly For the first time
since she had met him she was able to feel some-
thing of his unknown life in England moving towards
her. The idle confidences of all their former conver-
sation seemed to have no meaning ; but now she was
vaguely aware of things felt and suffered, of struggle
and defeat and the stubborn onwardness of a man’s
soul which may be the true victory of spirit on this
earth. Yet her approval had been disturbed by an
apparently groundless uneasiness. Paul had a way of
looking at her frankly when he spoke of himself ; but
she could not help thinking that he told her only a
measure of the truth—as much, perhaps, as he thought
her fit to hear. This, however, was not a thing to
be grumbled at. After all, they were comparative
strangers; their intimacy was the forced growth of
this jungle environment, and might fade quickly into
diffidence if they found themselves in a mixed com-
pany once more,
“You were quite right to choose a quiet ship,”
she said. “There wouldn’t be much peace for an
interesting young scientist on a crowded passenger
boat. And I can’t help thinking that your craving
to be rid of company suggests an overdose of woman’s
attentions almost as equally as too much work.”
His laugh was slightly embarrassed.
“I wasn’t really thinking of women.”
“Of course not! I don’t know where that thought
came from. You must have stirred it in me by put-
ting on that look of forlorn manhood. But now we
understand fully, and we won’t attempt to goad you
into making a move. Will we, Mr. Murdoch?”
He had been watching them covertly, thinking
that they were old friends already. More than that,
perhaps,. There was a change in her face when she
looked at him. Her eyes grew deeper, and there was
a little more grey in them. And how could she hav~
found a thought of other women in what the fellow
had just been saying? That was the sort of silly
thing a woman said when she was falling in love. Ii
was incipient jealously.
“He can stay here as long as he likes,” he said
aloud, “provided he lets me know what he’s going
to do, one way or the other. I don’t want to waste
time or have my Kanakas chasing about on fools’
errands. That’s all,”
Burnley got up from his chair and leaned against
the verandah rail near Joyce, She was tall enough,
thought Murdoch, but Burnley was head and shoulders
above her —one of those six-feet Englishmen. He was
straight, too, for all his lazy, slouching attitudes, and
he had good looks —straight nose, blue eyes wide
apart and a crop of warm, brown hair. Something
sunny about him. Unwillingly he had to admit to
himself that they looked a splendid pair of creatures
standing there together.
“A man-eater, all blood. Behold his remains.”
“I don’t see why you want to go digging into
that country around Lake Murray,” he said, anxious
to get away from his thoughts. “I can take you to
some Lake Murray people much nearer home. They’re
away from their own background, but the tribal cus-
toms persist. I’ve even got a couple of them in this
settlement.”
“I’m afraid I need more than that. It’s really
the cultural side I’m interested in. I want to go in
there and see what those people are doing in the way
of arts and crafts and social arrangements. I want
to see the way they live together, and how they share
among themselves whatever they have of human
intelligence.”
“You’ll find plenty of intelligence, but you may
not be able to recognise it. These people think differ-
ently from us.”
“Naturally. I try to remember that.”
“You won t get much from them. You 11 see the
way they make their weapons, and you might learn
something about housebuilding and marriage cus-
toms. You might even see a little dancing and hear
a rumor of totem tricks. But you won t get under the
skin; you wont get into the native mind. _
“Probably not. But we believe that we can dis-
cover a lot of what goes on underneath by observing
the surface.”
“You make your mistakes when you try to inter-
pret their motives,” said Murdoch, glad of a chance
to speak with emphasis. “Doctor Manson will tell
you how hopeless it is to try to make I
think she’s learning that she can’t do anything against
illness in this part of the world.”
“I can work against illness in any part of the
world. But I can’t work against sorcery.”
“That word is like a shadow over Papua,” said
Burnley.
“And almost everything you want to know is
hidden beneath it.”
“I’m afraid you’re right. There’s plenty of data,
but not much of it is reliable, although there must
be a few Europeans who have been able to find out
things. You, for instance.”
A change had come into Burnley’s voice; his
manner was alert.
“Sorcery is an indictable offence in Papua,” said
Murdoch, “and you’ll find one or two of the nepu
serving sentences in the gaol at Port Moresby. Why
don’t you get permission to interview them?”
“You know why. These sorcerers won’t tell any-
thing. Even their victims will try to shield them.
It’s mighty hard to get at their methods.”
Murdoch put aside his pipe and shifted his chair
to follow the shade.
“The trouble with most of you fellows is that
you can’t lose your civilised attitudes. When you
think of sorcery you imagine a system built on fear;
you think of poor wretches going in a daily trembling ;
you imagine that they hear a menace in every stirring
of trees, that they see a danger in every dimness and
shadow, and that a shape and presence of violent
death stalk everywhere with them. Of course there’s
fear. It’s a condition of life, and not only in Papua.
You were talking a minute ago about the trouble
you had when you came into some money. That
was a fear of unknown forces. And when you come
down here you look for the same attitude magnified
a hundredfold. You find it, too, because the native
is more primitive than you; but most of his fears
grow from the conditions of his life —from insecurity,
the troubles of crop and warfare, and from the natural
influences of his vast background. Sorcery plays a
part in ail this ; but it’s not the dominating impulse
you fellows seem to think it,”
Burnley was listen-
ing attentively.
“All the same, I
think you’ll have to
admit that sorcery is
the outstanding influ-
ence. The Papuan’s
whole life is condi-
tioned by it. He can’t
get married or buried
without the interfer-
ence of the nepu. From
infancy, through child-
hood and all the stages
of youth to manhood
and old age—always
the nepu. At every
point of his life he has
to reckon with these
devils.”
“And why not?
Haven’t you had to
reckon with someone
in authority? When
you’re young there’s a
schoolmaster; when
you marry there’s a
priest; when you fall
sick there’s a doctor.
Always someone in
authority to whom you
must turn with a child-
like faith. You turn to
these people when you
need help or instruc-
tion. The native turns
to his sorcerer.”
“But consider the
different methods! Our
doctors may be pretty
feeble sometimes, but
they work with scien-
tific knowledge; where-
as your sorcerer sits in
a dark corner and
mumbles incantations
over somebody’s hairs
or a drop or two of
sweat; or chews up some forest root and spits out
the juice—together with a withering curse —in the
direction of his victim.”
“It’s not for me to argue in favor of sorcerers,”
said Murdoch, scowling at the verandah floor. “I
represent the Government out here, and if I can catch
any of the nepu red-handed I have orders to arrest
them. Officially, then, I’m dead against that sort of
thing. But I’ve moved about a good deal, and I’m
as much a part of the life of this place as any white
man can be, and there’s nothing to stop me from
thinking about these things in a quiet way. Consider,
for instance, a native’s attitude towards death. He
expects it in one of two ways —from an enemy’s spear
or from natural causes in old age. In old age, mark
you. He believes that a man who dies before he’s
old has been struck down by unnatural causes, and
he has to account for this. Therefore, he believes in
malignant spirits, in forces that can be used against
him. That’s where he’s glad of his sorcerers.”
Burnley nodded.
“I quite see that, although a native may have
reason to fear a sorcerer of his own tribe, he has to
depend on him to protect him from outside enemies.
But sorcery goes deeper than that. It dominates their
trade customs, their arts and handicrafts, their agri-
culture and their religion. For the Papuan there isn't
any boundary between economics and religion ; and
at the back of both sits the nepu.”
Hitherto Joyce had been listening and watching
with an interest for the men rather than their opinions.
They had forgotten her for the time being, and she
could lean against the verandah rail and watch them
quite openly.
Burnley was leaning back against his elbows,
which rested on the rail, and brown forearms were
hanging loosely beneath rolled sleeves. Those were
not the forearms of a lazy man, she decided. Gently
gliding ridges of sinew did not grow into sluggish
tissue, and there was a nervous strength in those bands
('Continued on page 50.)


Insurance
anot
Prosperiti|
The first deposit of an Assurance
Policy creates an immediate
Estate for the full amount
of the policy selected. You
purchase a lump sum of money
for future delivery—an unfail-
ing protection to your depend-
ents, and a comfort to you
during life.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L™
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St,, Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Established 1834
• ~ THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Lure of Gold:—
The Demijohn
BY a.w.UPFIELD.
IT was a large demijohn. It had a
capacity of three gallons.
Its history can be traced back to
the year 1913, when a vast, bewhiskered
person called Tiny bought it at Bur-
racoppin, W.A., and packed it, along
with stores and water, on a camel dray.
He travelled that day as far as the Nine-
mile Rock, taking the Government track
northward along the new Number One
Rabbit Fence in defiance of official pro-
hibition. The beer being consumed dur-
ing, the first night out from Burracoppin,
Tiny made the demijohn serve as a water
container until he arrived at and camped
near a rock hole eastward of the 227-
mile peg and twenty-one miles north of
the Mount Magnet-Youanmi track. Here
he built himself a comfortable bough
shed, and, when he was found dead
in 1915, the police left the demijohn
behind the back of the bough shed when
they buried the body and removed
Tiny’s effects. No subsequent visitor de-
sired the demijohn. It became Tiny’s
memorial.
The fact that Tiny camped for two
years of his life at the waterhole, added
to the fact that he purchased stores at
Sandstone with raw gold, indicated to
many that he had found gold in the
vicinity. His standard of living during
those last two years of his life was well
above that of the average prospector.
Yet, although many others diligently fos-
sicked for Tiny’s find, no one ever dis-
covered it, and no one discovered Tiny’s
“plant” until Earle and Todd came along
in 1929.
IF does seem that the God of Chance,
knowing of Tiny’s demijohn, wrote a
play about it, or rather around it, and
then determined on two men to act parts
in it. The god selected for lead a
farmer who, feeling the first blast of the
depression, decided to leave his wife in
charge of the farm and use the partly-
paid-for truck on a prospect for gold.
Arthur Earle was a slight man of
about fifty—a neurotic, a whiner. He
first tried his luck about Westonia, but,
of course, he wasn’t the man to be lucky
enough to find gold. What he knew about
prospecting was even less than what he
knew about wheatgrowing, and what
he did not know he never admitted even
to himself. From Westonia he drifted
east to Southern Cross, then on to Kal-
goorlie and north to Laverton. He picked
up Jack Todd on the road to Youanmi,
and Todd talked about the long-dead
Tiny and his alleged secret find. Seeing
in Todd a man of abnormal physical
strength, and recognising his knowledge
of prospecting, Arthur Earle offered a
mateship.
Todd was thickset, forty-odd in years,
slow in action, humorously witty in a
manner hinting at mental depth. He
always chuckled at Earle’s complaints
and grumbling and outbursts of temper.
The mateship
was formed fif-
teen miles out
from Youanmi
late one after-
noon. It was ar-
ranged by the
track side while
the billy was be-
ing boiled. Into it
was thrown a
truck, tent and
gear by the one
and twenty-four one-pound notes by the
other. On reaching Youanmi after dark,
Todd handed Earle eight of his pound
notes, and he went along to the hotel to
buy half a dozen bottles of beer while
his mate purchased stores. They then
drove west along the Mount Magnet
track until they reached the gate in the
Rabbit Fence at the 206-mile peg. There
is a Rabbit Department hut near this gate
and a large rock water catchment behind
it.
The following day they drove north
along the fence for twenty miles, and
then they took a sandalwooder’s track
east into Tiny’s country. At last the God
of Chance had brought his cast to the
stage, and the drama began before an
audience of half a dozen crows and five
emus.
Yes, this here is where Tiny Evans
got his water the two years and four
months he was here,” Todd remarked
when, under direction, Earle stopped the
truck at the edge of a big area of sur-
face conglomerate.
“Where’s the flaming water?” de-
manded Earle, as though his mate should
have produced a second River Murray.
“Come on, I’ll show you! ” invited
Todd, and he led the way across the rock
“island” in the mulga sea until, near its
centre, there was revealed to them a
fifty-yards-long crevice. The width of
the crevice was uneven, being a mere
inch or so along most of its length and
fully a yard for some ten or twelve feet
towards one end.
“Gee! Water’s a bit low,” Todd said,
standing and staring down. “But she goes
deep and she never dries out. We can
lower a bucket on a rope for as much as
we want. By the water in that rock
puddle back there it must’ve rained here
within a week or two, but I’ve heard say
that rain don’t make no difference to the
level of water down there. Yes—here’s
where Tiny got his water. Look over
there. At the edge of the scrub. There’s
still the bough shed Tiny built. The roof
looks a bit busted down, but we can soon
fix ’er up and camp there.”
“But that’s where he died, isn’t it?”
stuttered Earle.
“Yes, that’s where Tiny kicked off,”
Todd replied, as though the fact gave
him secret pleasure. “Tiny wasn’t no-
thing much to look at when old Bill
Williams found him. There wasn’t
nothing the police could do bar dig a
hole beside him and shovel him into it.
But Bill Williams got Tiny’s last two
bottles of brandy. Close kind of bird
was Tiny. Always was. If we can get on
to his find, we won’t be downhearted any
more.”
“Anyway, I don’t much like the idea
of camping in his hut,” objected Earle.
“He might be still hanging around like.”
Todd flashed a quick look. His lips
fell into a sneer. A strong man himself,
he had no time for a weakling.
“Aw—come on! ” he growled. “What’s
wrong with Tiny’s camp? We can cut a
few props and heave the shed roof level
quicker’n we can build another. If it
gets on your nerves after a bit, we can
mark a place to build another. Tiny
won’t bother us. Blast me—he’s been
dead fourteen years.”
117 HEN they had finished settling in in
*" Tiny’s bough shed, the bronzewing
pigeons were whirring across the rock
island to drink from the last half-inch
of water lying in a shallow declivity. As
there yet was water in the drum on the
truck there was no necessity for the part-
ners to visit the crevice hole that evening,
and while Earle prepared a stew and
baked a damper Todd went off with a
gun and bagged several pigeons. These
he plucked and cooked while Earle stared
moodily at the campfire, and, thus en-
gaged, Todd enlarged on Tiny’s history.
“Tiny got gold around here some-
where,” he said placidly. “I knew him,
and he was never a bloke to stay in one
place more’n a month unless he was on
gold. Two years back I prospected for
his find, but I couldn’t stop long because
I was broke. Now, we’ll comb this coun-
try fine. It’ll be worth striking, for Tiny
wouldn’t have stopped here all the time
just for a few ’weights, and he was the
kind of bloke who’d be content to live
in a place like this on good tucker and a
bottle or two instead of having a fling
down in a city no matter how much gold
he had in sight.”
“Well, we’ll shift camp in the morn-
ing,” Earle objected, his light-blue eyes
aglitter in the firelight. “Dead men’s
camps ain’t no good to me.”
“Aw —why worry? When a man’s
dead, he’s dead,” argued Todd. “You
don’t want to hold with ghosts and
things. They’re last year’s.”
Earle sat like a man whose ears are
tight to catch the slightest sound. His
eyes constantly moved. The fingers which
rolled cigarette after cigarette visibly
trembled.
“Where did they plant him?” he in-
quired, and the placid Todd replied:
“Plant old Tiny! Blessed if I know
for sure. Somewhere’s around. What’s
the odds, anyhow?”
At middle-distance a curlew vented its
long-drawn, screamed dirge, and the
sound of it almost lifted Earle’s body
from the petrol case on which he was
sitting.
“Curlew,” grunted Todd, without look-
ing up from the task of slicing chips from
a black tobacco plug. “They ain’t bad
eatin’ if cooked properly.”
Earle’s lean body relaxed, and he
stared at the vague outlines of the truck
as though half in mind to pack up and
move right then. The shed faced to the
south, and the soft east wind rustled the
skeleton leaves remaining on the newly-
propped roof, leaves on brittle twigs cut
and placed there by the man called Tiny.
“Well cut fresh boughs for the roof
to-morrow,” Todd said, noting his com-
panion’s quick upward glance. “Strange
how the joint has weathered the years
from nineteen-fifteen. Old Tiny must’ve
made a good job of it when he put ’er
up. P’raps he knew the gold was near
here and he built her to stand for a long
time.”
He expected Earle to say something
about moving camp the next day. By
now Todd realised his mental strength
over his mate, and he was confident that
in this matter of a camp site, and in all
others, too, he could and would prevail.
After breakfast the next morning,
Earle volunteered to take the petrol-tin
bucket to the crevice hole for water.
With it he took a length of light rope,
and as he walked across the island of
rock he was watched by Todd. Todd
saw him at the edge of the crevice, and
then he smiled dourly when through the
still, sunlit air came Earle’s vivid curses.
His mate then came back with neither
bucket nor rope.
“The wire handle came out of the
bucket at one side. It slipped off the
rope and sank,” he explained stutteringly.
Then he rushed to the truck, adding; “It’s
the only bucket we got. The blarsted
handle would come out!”
Now, with a sneer about his mouth
and his black eyes very small, Todd
watched Earle pull from the truck a half-
coil of fencing-wire. Silently they strode
over the conglomerate to the crevice, and
there Todd bent one end of the wire and
Earle straightened it as he paid it out
from the coil and Todd began to fish for
the bucket.
“Must be fifteen feet to the water,”
Todd said, to add: “Must be four or
five feet of water in her still.”
Demanded Earle: “Can you feel the
bucket with the wire?”
“Yes, I’ve got her. The bottom seems
to be flat and there’s some rubble down
there.”
“Wave the wire around,” Earle urged
impatiently. “You can hook the free
end of the handle.”
Ten minutes passed before Todd gave
a grunt of satisfaction, and Earle saw
the dull glint of water break into ghostly
bars of silver. Slowly the bucket, full of
water, was drawn to the lip of the crevice,
and then, as Earle grasped it, he gave a
cry of amazement, and with furious
energy tipped out the water and upended
the bucket. From it dropped two small
nuggets of gold.
LIPS were parted and teeth revealed in
fixed grins. Blue eyes encountered
black eyes—four eyes, small and as hard
as agates.
“Tiny’s find must be down there,” Earle
said, breaking the silence.
“Don’t think,” countered Todd.
“But these two nuggets were down
there to get into the bucket as you fished
for it. There might be more, you fool,”
shouted Earle, his eyes now blazing.
Todd said calmly; “Don’t get shirty.
I reckon that’s Tiny’s plant, not his find.
He got the gold some place else, and he
put it down there for safe-keeping. He
must’ve known that all he put down he
wouldn’t get back, but he didn’t mind
that, ’cos wot he put down was more’n
enough. Come on, let’s fish!”
By sundown they had retrieved thirty-
two ounces of gold in small nuggets.
Then, weakened by lack of food, they
lurched off the rock to the bough shed,
silenced by the reaction following the
clamorous excitement. Not one cast of
the bucket had failed to bring up gold.
“I’m going down into that water to-
morrow,” announced Earle as though
thinking his mate would argue against it.
“It can’t be more than four feet deep.
I’ll cut down the handle of the shovel
so’s I can use it to scoop up the gold.”
“Be worth a try, anyhow,” Todd
agreed, pouring water into the washbasin


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
= *=<^±3
■a\=
Vs=-
&
V ms
==£
V%
32 =
Sfe
m.
r._ r —. r _ r
TJWJJiWmBL
mm
r
-jlrj^ii’-!;
fsa
n
'M
\ )
5 *
W f : #S
Z-vf;
i./A
mmmm.
pm
f-M
[-111
f-r.f
—r.-M,
mm
mm
?//M
a
Pr'ifrirj
l|
/>pajq auioupM. y
m
m
rm
• n-:;! ;rP
/ — wjy^
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsb rough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantk
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
set on the ground. Earle was looking
vacantly into space while Todd stripped
off his flannel vest, and when again his
eyes became focused he saw only the
top of Todd’s head as the man stooped
over the basin.
NEVER in his life had Earle’s brain
worked so rapidly and so clearly. To
it was presented a succession of questions
like clear-cut screen shots of the one
scene taken from different angles. He
seemed lifted high on the wings of exul-
tation, and with astounding swiftness
into his vision sprang the tomahawk lying
on the bush table. He need not divide
the gold with this track hobo.
Without moving his feet, he reached
sideways for the tomahawk and then for-
ward to deliver the blow. After that he
laughed shrilly like a woman. All the
gold was his. No one would look for
Todd. No one had seen Todd and him
together: no one knew they were mates.
Inexperience prevented him from seeing
the difficulties of changing the gold into
currency without answering questions as
to where he got it.
The sun had gone. The warm wind
was freshening from the north-east, and
it disturbed Earle’s sweat-plastered, scanty
hair. In the gathering dusk he strode to
the truck for the long-handled shovel with
which to dig a grave. The dead man
then was behind him. From behind him
came a long-drawn moan of pain.
As though stung, Earle sprang about
to stand and glare at the dim, sprawled
figure of Todd. With a cry of fury, he
rushed from the truck to snatch up the
tomahawk, and then he stooped to batter
in Todd’s head. When he stood up he
shouted:
“I’ll bet all the gold here and all the
gold down that crevice that’s settled
you!”
Again at the truck for the shovel, his
body and his brain were frozen by the
moan of anguish coming from the direc-
tion of Jack Todd. Rage burned through
his veins like raw alcohol. Seizing the
shovel, he rushed to Todd’s body and
began to dig a grave beside it —dig furi-
ously, excitedly, like a dog close to a
rabbit. Three feet down he went before
he rolled the corpse into the hole and
shovelled back the loose sand.
For years his mind had balanced on a
knife-edge. The sight of gold had toppled
it. Immediately he had finished the burial
he began to regain a measure of calm.
Chuckling and whistling by turn, he relit
the campfire, filled the billy and then
squatted on his heels before the blaze,
his mind receiving pleasure from its task
of making plans. Yes! He would
change Tiny’s gold into notes, and then
he would make for Adelaide and Mel-
bourne and have a hell of a good time.
The wife could look after the farm. In
fact, she could have the damn’ farm for
keeps.
Then again came to him that terrible
moan.
With the back of his head and neck
frozen, Earle slowly stood up and as
slowly turned round. The firelight
reached the low mound which was Todd’s
grave. It revealed the sand particles and
the mica particles. They were moving.
Todd, under them, was moving! He
was about to crawl out of his grave. He
was moaning:
“Oo-oo-oo-oh! Ah-oo-oo-oo!”
Arthur Earle screamed. Turning, he
rushed away, his body no longer con-
trolled by a reasoning brain. Because
it offered him clear passage, he ran
to the island of conglomerate, raced
across its uneven surface. Once he looked
back—to see the flickering fire and the
thing towering above and behind it. He
was not to know that it was the swing-
ing meatbag and not Todd standing up
at the edge of the grave.
He screamed again. Then he stepped
into the crevice above Tiny’s safe deposit.
Its opposite edge struck his chest, flung
back the upper part of his body, so that
as he fell towards the water the back
of his head struck rock.
THE billy boiled. Presently it was
emptied of water and its bottom
gaped. The fire died down to a red glow.
At the back of Tiny’s bough shed the
demijohn squatted as though with studied
comfort. The rising wind played about
its unstoppered mouth. From its empty
belly came:
“Oo-oo-oh! Ah-oo-oo-oooo! ”
This Was a King:—
CIVILISATION
By KAY ELLIS.
f- pHE campfire burned up brightly as a
lubra threw on an armful of dry gum
branches. By its flickering light old
King Wonga could see the members of
the Mara tribe —his tribe—gathered
around. There was more than one fire.
The main one burned at the end of a
narrow strip of ground which had been
carefully swept clean with tea-tree bushes.
This was the dancing place. On either
side, forming two long lines, sat the
young warriors—fierce and splendid' in
war paint and feathers stuck on with
blood. •
A little apart, crouching over a
smaller fire, were the young lubras.
Several of the old men, squatting on
naked haunches, had two small fires
each, one in front and one behind, in
order to protect their old bones from the
evening mist and the frosty night air.
Wonga sniffed like some wild bush
creature as the smell of the burning gum
leaves reached him. His black eyes
glowed like coals as they took in the
whole scene ; even the children stopped
whimpering and crouched back afraid
when those eyes rested on them for a
moment.
Wonga half turned to the fire as if he
were cold. His deep, dreamy eyes looked
into the coals for a moment, then he
picked up his boomerangs and began
tapping gently. The low murmur of
voices died away. Every eye was upon
him. Suddenly, without looking up, he
lifted his voice in a wild chant, beating
time with the boomerangs. Fifty voices
joined in; dozens of boomerangs and
nulla-nullas tapped in unison ; then the
dancers sprang into the centre of the
cleared ground and the corroboree began.
They made a fine sight, these young
warriors. All in the prime of manhood ;
proud of their strength and of the scars
which covered their bodies. Some of the
scars were relics of fierce tribal fights;
others had been
d e 1 i b e r ately
made as orna-
men t s or in
memory of
some deceased
relative: great,
even weals ex-
tending right
across the chest and standing out
nearly half an inch from the sur-
rounding flesh. They had been made
with flint knives or sharp shells, with dry
wood-ashes rubbed in to make the scar
prominent.
Wonga looked on with pride. Tradi-
tion told him that there was a time —
long, long ago—when the young men had
murdered their father, the leader of the
tribe. The record was dimly preserved
in the sacred rites of the initiation cere-
mony even, to this day; but he was not
afraid. By magic, fear and superstition
the old men were now able to demand
respect and obedience from even the
most ambitious young warrior. Wonga
smiled wickedly to himself as dance fol-
lowed dance.
They sang of hate, of war, of love ;
danced in imitation of the brolga, the
kangaroo, the emu. Incidents of war
and the chase were enacted ; fierce eyes
glowed, nostrils extended, hearts beat
faster, muscles involuntarily tightened;
while lubras beat time with bare hands
on naked thighs, and the ground shook
to the stamp of dozens of dancing feet.
Wonga lived again through the stirring
times of his own youth. Once again he
was a young man in the pride of savage
manhood. He thought of his first fight.
For a lubra it was; old Mianica, who
was ugly and almost toothless now.
Then she had been young and beauti-
ful, and her teeth had showed strong
and white when she smiled at him; it
had made him strong to fight for her.
She had watched as they fought. Two
evenly matched young men, each with
the lust to kill. Once he was beaten to
his knees, but she had called his
name and he had sprung to his
feet and carried on, with the blood
running into his eyes and almost blind-
ing him. His opportunity came when
his enemy tripped on a root. One mighty
blow, and then a wild shout of victory
as the nulla-nulla crashed down on the
other’s head.
And Mianica had turned and run from
him. Tired and weak as he was, what
a chase it had been! But he ran her
down at last in the mangroves, and when
she struggled he stunned her with a
quick blow and carried her to his camp
on his shoulder. How proudly he had
taken his place with the warriors of the
tribe that evening! But no one would
fight for Mianica now! She was old ;
almost too old to grind water-lily seeds
into flour, or dig for ground nuts and
yams even when the ground was soft . . ,
Ah well!
Suddenly the dancers ceased, the song
died away, the tapping stopped. Wonga
sank back exhausted, grown suddenly
old again. His eyes looked into the glow-
ing coals of the fire; he seemed to see
through a film. For a few moments no
one moved. Then there was an outburst
of clapping, and he sighed wearily and,
getting stiffly to his feet, picked up a
battered felt hat and moved towards the
crowd of white onlookers for whom the
corroboree had been staged.


ffi
HELPFUL SERVICE
FDR
TRAVELLERS
If you contemplate a visit either abroad or within
Australia, the Bank of New South Wales Travel
Department can smooth the way for you.
This Department of the Bank arranges world and
local tours, makes bookings and reservations for
travel by sea, land and air, secures accommodation,
advises on Income Tax clearances and passports,
and arranges baggage insurance.
The Traveller thus starts out with every detail of
the tour arranged in advance and is supplied with
a complete schedule of movements and accom-
modation. No charge is made for the services
rendered by this Department.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVEL DEPARTMENTS
203A.1936
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Wellington (N.Z..), Auckland, Christ-
church, Dunedin, Suva, and London.
Enquiries may be made at any other of the
Bank’s 760 branches.
w
WINCHESTER
.22-CAL. RIFLES FOR NIGHT SHOOTING.
e
vC
re
COWLES & DUNN,
’Phone: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Another Glimpse at Australia’s Past:-
BLACK BILL
BY J.H.M.ABBOTT.
ALL round the top of the valley the
tall, blue-green mountains seemed
to sleep in the brilliant sunshine of
the summer afternoon, leaning up against
the huge tent of intensely cobalt sky
that arched above them, as though tired
and wearied by the heat of the long day.
But on the great ramp that was to
carry Major Mitchell’s new road up on
to the heights of Mount Victoria there
was no sleeping and no
rest. Swarms of ragged,
grey-clad men toiled un-
ceasingly, even if per-
functorily, on the em-
bankment and about the
raw scars in the hillsides
where the Hawkesbury
sandstone had been
blasted and mutilated for
the passage of the main
highway. Harnessed in
teams, they dragged
handcarts of stone, dressed and broken,
to the end of the bank that was
slowly creeping down towards the
flat below. In the cuttings they
quarried and trimmed massive square
blocks of rock that were to go into
the steeply sloping retaining walls
advancing with it. They chipped inter-
minably with picks in the task of squar-
ing into a neatness that would satisfy the
Surveyor-General’s fastidious Royal En-
gineering eye the naked faces of the
wounded slopes. By sheer bullocking
man-power they built up the strong and
solid causeway, and always they moved
with a dull clatter of leg-irons —tinkle,
rattle, clash —from sunrise to sunset.
Outside the works, between the
prisoners and the shady forest of tall
eucalypts and scrub, the scarlet jackets
of the sentries gleamed vividly in the
bright sunshine, their bayonets sparkling
and flashing when they marched slowly up
and down their short beats, as the Brown
Bess muskets jolted on their shoulders.
Towards the end of the shining, yellowish
embankment a single splash of crimson
marked the position of the sergeant of
the guard, who stood there talking to the
Principal Overseer of Works, Mr. Jacob
Arnold, lately warrant-officer in the
Royal Navy, and boatswain of that smart
frigate H.M.S. Gannet.
“I tell ye, Sergeant Marshall, it gimme
a turn when I see Tom Moulton come
a-marchin’ through the gate o’ the
stockade last night—it gimme the turn
o’ me life. Brought me up all standin’,
so to say. ’Twas what your sarvice would
call bein’ ’alted an’ brought to attention.
I couldn’t move, nor yet speak. ’Twas
on me tongue to say something to him—
but there was your Lootenant Lacy a-
standin’ by wi’ th’ Superintendent, and
so I checked meself. But it goes ’ard
for to see an old messmate in the flamin’
chain-gang. It do, indeed!”
“There’s all sorts gets themselves into
the iron-gangs,” said the sergeant —“all
sorts and kinds. There’s a man called
Martin —he were a parson not so long
ago. Trouble wi’ ’is ’ousekeeper. Four-
teen year. There’s clerks, an’ doctors,
an’ lawyers. Lord, Mr. Arnold, ’tis th’
rummiest mix-up o’ men ye ever see,
w’en ye come for to go into their ’ist’ries.
That young feller th’ sentry shot last
Saturday—’im they buried over there be
that big yaller-jacket tree —’e’d been an
’onorable, so ’is mates says. Doin’ a
stretch for forgery! Son o’ Lord Mar-
lyn, out o’ Berkshire. Blime, I wouldn’t
be surprised to find a bloomin’ bishop
in one o’ th’ gangs, any day o’ th’ week!
They’s all sorts.”
“But Tom Moulton —th’ smartest war-
rant-officer in th’ navy! Stiffen me, ser-
geant, I’d as soon look to see a blinkin’
admiral o’ th’ fleet a-wheelin’ stone on
this ’ere job as to ’ave seen Tom with
that crew.”
“Ye knew ’im—ye was shipmates?”
“Since we was young fellers. We was
in more than one ship together. Th’
last was th’ Gannet, down th’ Straits —
’e was gunner and I was bos’n. A smart
man! W’en I took me discharge, I
wanted ’im to take ’is, too, an’ come out
to Noo South Wales wi’ me. But, no.
’E was ambitious. ’Ad ’is eye on th’
quarter-deck. And would ha’ got there,
too, if it ’adn’t been for what he
done.”
“An’ what might that ha’ been, Mr.
Arnold?”
“Th’ cap’n o’ marines, ’is badness and
villainy. Tom Moulton, ’e ’as a wife
a-livin’ close by Plymouth Hoe —an’
thought a lot of ’er, Tom did. But bad
she was —bad as bad eggs! Th’ neigh-
bors tells ’im things. Drunk ’e gets—as
drunk as Aaron’s sow —an’ comes aboard.
This Cap’n Cave, ’e’s a-standin’ on th’
quarter-deck w’en Tom comes off in
th’ evening. ‘l’ll larn ye,’ says Tom,
a-marchin’ up to ’im ; ‘l’ll larn ye for to
go wi’ my missus.’ And ’auls off an’
’its ’im — plonk ! —on th’ nose. Court-
martialled. Flogged round th’ fleet.
Fourteen years’ transportation to Botany
Bay. ’Ow ’e comes wi’ this lot up ’ere,
I dunno. But to-night I’m a-goin’ into
th’ stockade for to take pore Tom some
baccy. I’ll find out then.”
“ ’Tis agin orders, Mr. Arnold.”
The overseer grinned.
“A shut-eyed sentry, Sergeant Mar-
shall?”
The sergeant of the guard winked at
him.
“I’ll see to it, Mr. Arnold,” he said.
“I’ll fix it up.”
INTO the queer society of the big com-
pound of the stockade, crowded with
weary and sweating convicts, who
cursed and blasphemed without ceasing,
and howled witless obscenity at one
another, Overseer Arnold entered as the
moon lifted over the black mountain-
tops that summer evening. Sergeant
Marshall came with him to the gate, and
both the sentry and the constable guard-
ing the entrance had an impression that
he was going in on duty.
“Ye’ll report to the Commandant what
ye find out?” asked Marshall cunningly.
“Aye—so soon’s I’m out o’ here. I
mean to find out all about it.” Mr.
Arnold rose to the occasion.
Within the stockade he inquired of a
man if he knew where Thomas Moulton
had his quarters. The prisoner recog-
nised him. He was not ill regarded by the
slaves whom" his business it was to
drive.
“Yes, Mr. Arnold. He’s in my gang,
sir. A bit of baccy, Mr. Arnold? Thank
you, sir. This way, if you please. It
gives me pleasure, sir.”
A well-spoken man was the Rev.
Laurence Martin, doing fourteen years
for his regrettable dealing with the virtue
of his housekeeper.
When they found Moulton he was
half-naked, washing his shirt in a bucket.
A muscular man with a bristling beard,
the pale moonlight lit his scarred back,
showing little furrows in the smooth,
white skin. He straightened up when the
ex-parson spoke his name, and glared at
the visitor to the stockade.
“The Principal Overseer, my dear
Moulton.”
“To hell with him then! What’s he
want with me?”
“Don’t ye know me, Tonj?” asked
Arnold in a low voice. Holding his
dripping shirt in his hands, the convict
thrust his head forward and peered at
the overseer, who took off his hat, so
that his face was unshadowed in the
moonlight. The prisoner grunted in a
surly fashion.
“Aye, I know you, Jacob Arnold. I’ve
seen you each day I’ve been here.
Officer of the watch up yonder on the
bank. What’s the matter?”
“I’ve but come to see ye, for old
times’ sake.” He glanced about him
cautiously. “I’m a-goin’ for to get ye out
of here, Tom. You can take to the bush.
’Twill be better nor this slavery. Put
on your shirt and get your jacket.”
“God!” gasped the other.
Hastily he wrung his wet shirt out and
struggled into it.
“How?” he whispered hoarsely.
“Come with me through the gate.
They’ll think th’ Commandant’s sent for
ye. Then — run. Do a bolt for it. Into
the bush. Here’s a file for the irons.
I’ll jostle th’ sentry’s arm if ’e goes for
to fire his piece at ye. Quick, now, or
the constable, he’ll be wondering.
Come! ”
“You’re a good fellow, Jacob."
grunted the convict. “A good fellow.
But ’twill get you into trouble, won’t it,
now?”
“Not a bit. I really got the Com-
mandant’s leave for to choose a man to
make up the tallies for me this evening.
Break away so soon’s ye get outside.
(Continued on next page.)
Evening.
O happy day, good-bye.
I’ve loved you splendidly,
and hold, until I die,
cool scented memory.
—/ know it like a song;
rocks lay like lichened clouds,
black shadowed, high along
the dwarfed blue river. Crowds
of gnats flung shivering spires
up-glimmering in the air ;
birds hung in drifting quires,
sun-gilt — oh, everywhere
was beauty. There the deep,
clear water lay so still
the current seemed asleep
in velvet pools, until
TASMANIA.
came braggadocio Breeze,
and even he but sped
a flight of silver bees
the Somds
.: . . , . . ,
sll^ht , echoes dn W m * down
die (dr y depths . . .
®
die beautifully, blown
by this live wind away
behind the night, and I
_/ anc \ t he owls—will stay
„ 7/ the gKat moo „.whUe bars
. * ,
point up the fish-loved way
the bright deciduous stars.
H. M. BETHUNE.


©Marks motor vehicle
points never to he
subjected to haphazard
greasing. '‘‘ALEMITE”
these parts ALWAYS.
6
"J&L
A
LEMITE*
-yiat^Xea^.j
Alemite is the high pres-
sure lubrication system. By means of it special-
ized Alemite lubricants are applied to prolong the
useful life of motor vehicles in all parts of the world.
<€!*&>
\C LyYKjLYie The heart of the
motor wants correct grades of oil to
meet climatic conditions and changes
as required. The very best oil for the
crank-case is the most economical
in the long run. Let your Alemite
Service Station see that all engine
parts are properly lubricated with
ALEMITE ENGINE LUBRICANT.
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: AIjTMIT . . . Chicago
Full particulars from KENNETH J. G, SMITH
Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
m
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 123 Pirie Street, Adelaide iv-Aust—3-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
Wm
I
■
MIBB
gpt
■ ■ •■■■
';K-
a
J
- *$V
igi
rriAHKS
uovl cam. tkusC
Specify Lysaght's Tank-
making sheets to secure
the benefits of the guaran-
tee and also obviate the
troubles occasioned by
the use of the wrong
grade of galvanized iron.
Write for a copy of "The
Construction of Galvan-
ized Iron Tanks."
A good reliable tank that won’t spring
sudden leaks, corrode, or need fre-
quent attention is a most valuable
asset to any home dependent on
stored water.
Lysaght’s special tank-making sheets,
manufactured at their Newcastle
works, are of super coated galvanized
iron and fully guaranteed. This is the
brand you can trust.
LYSAGHT'S
SPECIAL TANK-MAKING SHEETS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LTD.
Sydney - Brisbane - Melbourne Adelaide - Perth
Hard as ye can go. Between th’ soldiers’
barracks and across the road. Don’t let
'em get ye. ’Tis all I can do, Tom. Now,
then, to the gate. But, wait a bit, you’d
better walk with me towards my hut.
Twill be better’n bolting from the gate.
Make the getaway from me as soon’s
we get beyond th’ barracks. That’ll be
best. And ’it me one on th’ jaw, like as
if you wanted for to knock me out.”
“Lord, Jacob, I don’t want to hit you
after what you’re doing for me. I don’t
like the notion.”
“Don’t you be a fool. Do as I say.
I can stand it; I’ve got a face like a
wooden block. You won’t ’urt me. You
do what I say. An’ get them irons off
as soon’s you can. I’ll lead th’ soldiers
the wrong way. But, for Gawd’s sake,
don’t get caught. Now, then, come
along.”
Suspiciously, and after much question-
ing, the constable on duty at the gate let
them through, and informed the sentry
outside that it was all right. They moved
away into the darkness, out of the yellow
light of the big lantern hanging over the
entrance.
A VERSEER ARNOLD, with a care-
” fully manufactured black bruise on
his right jaw, was paraded before the
Commandant on the following morning
to show cause why he shouldn’t be dealt
with for negligence in permitting the
escape from custody of “Prisoner
Thomas Moulton, No. 1561, per Plassy,
Devon Assizes, 14 years.”
He found Captain William Rawlins,
the officer in question, in by no means
what might be called an amiable mood.
Indeed, “Black Bill” looked blacker than
usual, which was to say a good deal.
“Overseer Arnold,” he gasped, regard-
ing balefully the stockily-built under-
officer, who stood at attention before the
writing-table in the Commandant’s
office, “you are a damned fool!”
“Yes, sir.”
“An unmitigated and confounded ass! ”
“Yes, sir.”
“And I have my doubts whether you’re
not also an infernal rogue.”
“No, sir.”
“It is for you to prove that you’re not,
Overseer Arnold. It seems to me that the
facts very distinctly show that you are.
However, I’m willing to listen to your
account of the affair, since your record
is a good one, so tell me what happened.”
“ ’Avin’ asked your permission, sir, I
went into the stockade last night for to
get ’old of a man who could ’elp me in
makin’ up th’ tallies for th’ last month,
me not bein’ a very good scholard. Ye’ll
remember me a-haskin’ leave o’ ye last
evenin’, sir, after th’ prisoners ’ad bin
mustered an’ locked up?”
“Yes,” nodded the Commandant. “Go
on. What made you pick out this man
Moulton?”
“Well, sir, I ’appened to know that ’e
was a man with a good eddication, ’avin’
served some years ago with ’im in th’
navy, w’en ’e was gunner o’ th’ Gannet.
I inquired where ’e was, an’, ’avin’ found
’im, I directed ’im to accompany me to
my ’ut, in order to ’elp me wi’ th’
returns. We come out th’ gate, an’
passed through th’ barracks, an’ was
jest a-turnin’ round be th’ cook-’ouse
w’en suddenly ’e ’its me a awful swipe
on th’ jaw ; an’ w’en I come to me senses,
about a ’alf a minute later, ’e’s gorn—
bolted, sir. Cut ’is lucky. ’Twas an
awful swipe, sir—clean knocked me out.
You can see th’ bruise on me jaw, sir—
’ere.”
“Arnold, you are a miserable liar!”
said “Black Bill” sardonically. “A little
soap and water will remove that bruise,
which I saw you putting on when I was
out for an early morning walk with my
dogs. Behind your own hut. However,
I’m going to accept your version of the
blow and the bolt, but that doesn’t
exonerate you from negligence. You
should have made him walk in front of
you, Arnold, and then you’d have been
safe from assault.”
“Yes, sir ; I never thought of it, sir,”
said Overseer Arnold weakly.
“Well, I’m going to suspend you for
negligence. I will not recommend your
dismissal—as yet, at anyrate. But I am
going to send you after Moulton, with a
corporal and three soldiers, and if you
don’t find him and bring him back here
you’ll have to seek some other employ-
ment. By the way, it might interest you
to know that there wasn’t the slighest
necessity for Moulton to bolt. He has
gained nothing by it —only made a fool
of himself. As a matter of fact, he was
a free man last night.”
“What’s that, sir—a free man, sir?”
“Yes. By the mail that came in last
evening I received directions to set him at
liberty. The King has been pleased to
grant him a free pardon. So you see,
Arnold, that very painful bruise on your
jaw was totally unnecessary. It seems
that the captain of the Gannet had
interested himself on Moulton’s behalf,
and spent a considerable amount of time
in bringing influence to bear in the right
quarters, with the result that at last he
obtained the promise of the man’s
pardon. And now the damned fool has
taken to the bush, where he’ll probably
rob some settler, and get himself lagged
once more. Don’t you think you’re a
bit of an ass, Arnold?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Glad you have the grace to admit it.
Very well, you’d better go and find him
now, and see whether you can’t undo
some of the mischief your —we’ll call it
negligence—has caused. I’ll give orders
for a corporal and three men to accom-
pany you. Now you can get out of my
sight. The look of you is displeasing to
me. And if you don’t find Moulton and
bring him back to the stockade, God help
you to another job. That’s all —you may
go.”
“Thank you, sir,” dutifully responded
Mr. Overseer Arnold as he saluted and
wheeled round towards the door.
“Oh, Arnold!” called Captain Rawlins
after him. The overseer turned in the
doorway.
“I think I’d try that soap-and-water
cure, if I were you. It’s a pity to dis-
figure your natural beauty, you know. ’
“Yes, sir,” said Mr. Arnold. “Blasted
funny, ain’t ye, ‘Black Bill’?” he mut-
tered when he got outside.
AT the end of a strenuous hot day
among the tumbled ravines that
buttress the western slopes of the Blue
Mountains, Overseer Arnold and the
soldiers still found themselves at sunset
without the man they were looking for.
Mr. Arnold had led them in the direc-
tion he knew Moulton had taken,
and, not a hundred yards from the
stockade, one of the soldiers had picked
up the filed leg-irons. For a while they
had found occasional indications of the
escapee’s tracks, and, finally, early in the
afternoon, had succeeded in tracing him
back towards where the embankment of
the new road led downwards from the
heights above. Here, it looked very much
as though he had climbed up the slope
of broken stones and rubble until he
came to the top of the embankment.
Along it he could easily have made
his way upwards to the crest of the
mountain, since, once the prisoners were
locked up for the night in the stockade,
no sentries guarded the unfinished works.
They had climbed to the top, and scoured
the country in the neighborhood—rough,
broken, scrubby gullies they were —but
without finding the slightest trace of the
missing man.
Mr. Arnold was all for continuing
the search throughout the night, but to
this idea the corporal in charge of the
tired party of soldiers strenuously
objected, and was as strenuously backed
up in his objections by the rank and file
of the little expedition.
“We can’t turn back now,” protested
the overseer. “Youse coves knows the
Commandant as well as what I do. What
sort of a stew will ‘Black Bill’ be in, d’ye
think, if we gets back to camp afore
daylight, at least? Come on —we’ll push
along the road towards Blackheath, an’
see if we can’t get no tidings of him
somewhere. Blime, ’tis leaving th’ job
only ’alf done if we go ’ome now.”
“That’s all very well, Mr. Arnold,”
grumbled the corporal, “but we ain’t got
no rations —an’ I’ve got th’ devil’s own
blister on me ’eel. ’Sides, th’ sergeant
tole me, w’en ’e was givin’ me me orders,
that we was to get back to barracks be
dark. ’Tain’t no use us pokin’ about in
th’ scrub through th’ night—no damn’ use
at all. Th’ fellie’s miles away from ’ere
be this time. Why, ’e’s almost ’ad time
to get to Emu Plains be now.”
Each of the privates also claimed to
have sore feet, and were so plainly un-
willing to continue the search that Mr.
Arnold found himself overruled, and at
length grumblingly consented to return.
Wearily, they made their way down the
causeway in the gathering dusk, and
arrived at the stockade just after dark.
After eating a hasty meal, washing
himself and brushing his boots, the un-
happy overseer betook himself to the
Commandant’s quarters, in order to re-
port to that dread functionary his lack of
success. When he reached them, it was
to find that Fate had arranged yet
another staggering surprise for him.
A PATHWAY of lamplight shone
through the open door of Captain
Rawlins’s cottage, and as he stepped on to
the verandah he heard the Commandant
say to someone who was sharing his even-
ing meal:
“Well, Tom, old man —here's to your
future prosperity and good health. I’d
not the ghost of a notion you were here.
You’ve had a rough time, old fellow, but
it’s all over now. Good luck to you—
and, although it’s cost you some trouble,
I can’t regret that you gave that swine,
Paul Cave, what he was looking for. The
damned blackguard—he cut me out with
the girl I was to marry, and I don’t think
there’s anything too bad for the dog. I’m
glad you broke his nose for him —though
most infernally sorry, old fellow, for all
the misery you’ve been through. How-
ever, I can arrange for your getting home
to England, and I know I can obtain you
employment in the merchant service.
My brother Dick’s a shipowner—he’ll
look after you.”
Then Mr. Arnold came to the door,
and gasped with amazement at what he
saw inside the brightly-lit .room.
Tom Moulton was seated at the Com-
mandant’s table, and was in the act of
raising his glass to his host.
“Your health, too. Bill. ’Tis twenty
years since we were at school together.
I’d forgotten what you looked like, ’tis
so long since I’d seen you. Here’s luck,
and all my thanks for your kind offers of
assistance. I’m glad I decided to give my-
self up, but I never thought I’d get the
news you gave me about, the pardon, or
enjoy an evening like this in the Blue
Mountains. I’m sorry for poor old
Jacob, though. He’ll have a cold night
of it out in the hills.”
“Oh, Overseer Arnold!” laughed the
Commandant. “Well, he’s a strong man,
and a little fresh air and exercise won’t
do him any harm. I’m glad to hear
from you, however, that he didn’t con-
nive at your escape last night.”
“Well, I’ll be damned, me ‘Black Bill’! ”
muttered Mr. Arnold as he stole away
unseen. “You’re a caution—a bloody
caution.”


WVUs
r ' v *
VIRREADV
8
Ig^EAPJ
T H E persistent expansion of a tiny
seed can rend a mighty rock.
Energy as persistent as that of a
growing plant is present in an Ever
Ready Battery.
Long after another battery has been
discarded an Ever Ready will continue
to discharge a strong flow of electrical
energy to efficiencly operate your torch
or radio.
ISTRALIA'S BEST BATTERIES' —
D
m
TORCHES;
&JIADIO-BATTERI ES
Hi
EE 7
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Doodlepipe”: What is “Laetitia’s”
authority for the Irish origin of the bag-
pipe (B. 13/5/’36)? It was played and
written of in ancient Greece ages before
that good Somersetshire man St. Patrick
. - , f , .
took a handful of chances and set out to
convert the heathen of Erne. There is
ample evidence also that the pipes were
known in various parts of Europe and
Asia almost from the dawn of recorded
history. In any case, the Irish pipes are
a poor, tweedlmg instrument, fit only
for frightening rats from a wheatstack
and not to be compared with the High-
lander’s war pipes.
* * * *
“Gabba”; Old-time cricketers will be
sorry to hear that William Brockwell, a
fine professional all-rounder who was in
Australia with Stoddart’s 1894-95 team,
has died in what Wisden calls “abject
poverty in England. For years Brock-
well was one of the stars of the powerful
Surrey team with bat and ball, though
he was not an outstanding success in
Australia. He was one of the first of
what may be called the “cultured” pro-
fessionals, in contrast to such rough gems
as Bobby Peel, Briggs and George Ulyett,
and was very popular at home and
abroad.
* t * * *
„ , Telemachus,” writing in “S. M.
hpfrW.^ri B f £ l at ions, says
we befriended Italy during the nine-
teenth century and she repaid us by
throwing over the Triple Alliance and
fighting on the right side ” Whether
gratitude to Britain had much to do
with bringing the Italians into the Great
War may be doubted, but they can
scarcely be said to have “thrown over the
Triple Alliance.” That alliance was a
defensive one, Germany, Austria and
Italy each contracting to range itself
with either of the others in the event
either being attacked. In 1914 Austria
a ” d Germany did the attacking, thereby
?-° v . l . ng tbe , ot^f r P artner / r ° m ar |y
bllgat * on unde ; J : the te ™ s of the T.A.
“Menengai” (East Africa): Them can’t
be many places in the world where you
aren’t liable to come across an Austra-
lian—or a Bulletin, A month ago 1
walked into a small town in Kenya, 300
miles from the coast and about 10 miles
from the Equator, and I made for the
nearest pub. As I opened the door I was
greeted with “Here’s another Aussie.” We
were five in all, and every State except
the Speck was represented. Also, we
were all Diggers. A few weeks before
that, I was up on the northern frontier
of Kenya, not 50 miles from the Abys-
sinian border. As I was having some
tea in an old native hut my eyes glanced
round the wall and I noticed a piece of
pink paper filling up a crack, I pulled it
out and was surprised to find the top
half of the back page of a Bulletin of
March, 1933.
* * * *
“Homer”: Lille in France has erected
a monument to the 20,000 homer pigeons
which “fell” in the Great War while
serving on the Western Front. When
wires were cut and human runners un-
employable because of intense enemy
fire, troops in the front line who had a
few pigeons were often saved by the
birds. The super-V.C. of the lofts was
Cher Ami, an English-bred bird. When
an American battalion found itself in
the soup through overrunning its set ob-
jective this pigeon was the means of
rescue; it got back with a message
though badly wounded, and the situa-
tion was saved. When it recovered, the
Yankees took the bird back to their
country, where it lived for some years
in luxury and was finally embalmed for
the admiration of posterity in a glass
case at Washington (D.C.).
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) wih
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
K.8.J.: Nicely done, but strikes no new
note J.C.8.: Good bits, though not up as
a wh01e..0.R.: The structural method of
your verse is scarcely “quite unusual”; it’s
merely the pantoum, one of the “artificial”
verse forms. Yours well done, but we’re not
keen on the kind... .R.H.S.: Neither gets past
being a nice verse exercise C.D.T.: Prob-
ably all right as a personal expression; doesn’t
seem to have much to give anyone else....
M.J.M.: Idea in that ending, but the rest’s
weak A.S.McL.: Feeling in it, but the verse
is stiff... .Steve: Have read worse “first mon-
strosities of a neophyte,” if that’s consoling.
. ...R.C.W.; “Street Accident” a bit too moist
for us K.W.: No doubt it amused you;
we want the kind that can amuse others
R.Q.: More an ejaculation than an 0de....
A.P.M.: Welcome to “The Dying Drover”
who only needs 24 lines to pass out. It’s
a record D.A.T.: Has all requirements of a
sonnet, except real feeling... .E.M.: Not our
sort; but you should be able to place it else-
where... .T. A. A.: Passable verse exercise in
sonnet form—that’s all P.H.H.: You don’t
seem, on those samples, to have any sense of
verse movement E.G.M.: Not a wide miss.
D.M.M.L.: The Bulletin is not that John
Hop’s beat... .M.M.V.: Found your bush
visitors a dull pair.... A.R.: Goes straight to
its goal in a commonplace fashion .W.M.F.:
Get more plot into it D.C.H.: If you must
write detective stories make them Australian.
E.C.: “The Shining Hour” has too many
dull minutes.... A.W.M.K.: Slight... .W.R.;
Dream endings are taboo A.S.A.: A month
for jay-walking? Have a heart G.T.: Try it
on a woman’s paper N.C.G.: Didn’t make
the grade... .S.C.; Tenth-rate melodrama
J.W.L.: More suitable for an English maga-
zine F.P.D.: You have the characters; now
make a story around them R.R.P.: Henry
Lawson did it better in “Faces of the Street.”
... .H.H.H.: We fell asleep early in the piece.
. ...J.R,: You missed your vocation; you
should have been an executioner L.C.0.:
Make one rounded story rather than a string
of episodes... .8.5. G.: Hackneyed anti-climax.
. ...L.C.: P00r... .R.C.: It reached us on a
wet day and added to our gloom J.A.D.:
“A Mere Trifle” is aptly named... .L.M.K.:
Needs stronger treatment R.G.M.; The
bank clerk’s tussle with the pen was not in-
spiringly told D.L.D.: Has a good point,
but the telling was insipid... .1.M.M.: View-
mat. ad. story hadn’t a chance F.N.: Too
sentimental... .V.H.L.: Dull from beginning
to end... .W.G.W.: Returned with haste
G.L.G.: Full of cliches and hackneyed notions.
. ...R.G.R.: A fine idea feebly handled
P.D.M.: A featherweight romance P.L.P.:
Dull variation of changing-luck p10t... .A.Q.:
Hardly worth running under a title A.R.:
Your hero is better with horses than you are
with the pen....L.L.: Crude and morbid
L.E.: That coincidence ending has been over-
worked. .. .N.Y.: You could have spared it the
long journey D.L.: Work on it again
C.S.: Your super-crook doesn’t belong to this
part of the globe.. .A.E.K.: Could see the end
a mile 0ff....D.D.; A washout... .S.C.: We
don’t know that it has any particular faults,
but the subject is unsuitable D.M.: The
“wart-ought” rhyme annoys us R.M.K.: It
hasn’t the most remote resemblance to a ballad.
... .K.L.: Not a bad picture, but you’ve made
a disorderly rhyme of it... .Bellerive: Another
wreath:
EDWARD DYSON.
The old whim horse
Of he’s mining poems
Is a favorite in
Veteran miners homes.
A versatile writer of
Verse and prose.
Whose span of life
Did sadly close.
... .P.W.: Not in our line... .M.H.S.: Earned
a second reading, but it needs strengthening
and condensing F.S.H.: Nothing in it.
Murders, suicides and sudden death are a drug
on the market K.L.-S.: And there’s been
an even bigger slump where the victim’s a
gold-stealer.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.K.M.: You’ll find no markets for such
slipshod work W.M.: Figures look to have
been hacked out of jarrah with a blunt axe.
. ...A.8.J.: Fair enough for your age—no
more C.M.C.: Careful students’ work, but
too stiff for publication N.L.: Our old
friend, the drunk with the lobster, reeled off
to his inevitable destination... .R.F.8.: Keep
cricket drawings until the summer W.S.M. •
It’s gone back J.C.C.: You have invaded
Oswald Pryor’s field R.C.: Do you draw
with a broken toothcomb dipped in tar?
J.A.K.: Almost invisible... .F.M.: Next time
you upset a bottle of ink over a map of Aus-
tralia please keep the accident to yourself
W.T.: Another father-in-the-pigsty gag
D.G.: You can see what a kangaroo looks like
in Taronga Park G.BJ.: No use for your
shameless effort A.R.L.: Subject of political
joyriders has been covered better H.H. •
Received, one outsize drawing of sea-serpent
with head in Australia and tail in Maoriland.
What does it mean? J.J.: No welcome for
that type of outback joke... .L.T.: Well
enough done in a fragile, fairybook fashion;
it needs more vigorous treatment and a gag
with a punch K.N.: Give us something
original and figures that aren’t frozen
W.H.P.: Promising; you would do better with
a finer brush E.H.: You need several years
of instruction and a sense of humor
F.M.M.: Which is Savage and which is Lyons,
and why are they wrestling in the middle of a
desert?


Our Service Department
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
w
for 131, Grimmett, 1 for 122, and O’Reilly, 7
for 189, in the third; and Grimmett, 3 for
103, in the fourth. (3) Nottingham, £14,570;
Lord’s, £23,225; Manchester, £16,227; Leeds,
£15,633 ; Oval, £18,658; total, £88,313.
¥ sj!
Who was the better all-rounder in big cricket
— M. A. Noble ( N.S.W .) or Warwick Armstrong
(Vic.) ? What are their averages in Tests v.
England and Sheffield Shield cricket ? What
were their centuries in Tests ? —I6BO.
Noble was the better all-round cricketer. He
was a superior fieldsman. Here are their other
efforts in figures:
Noble.
Innings. N.O. Buns. Aver.
Tests . . . . 68 6 1905 50.72
Shef. Shield .. 81 9 4996 69.38
Total .. 149 15 6901 51.5
Armstrong.
Tests . . .. 71 9 2172 35.03
Shef. Shield ..106 6 4993 49.93
Total .. 177 15 7165 44.22
Noble.
Wickets. Buns. Aver.
Tests . . .. 115 2850 24.78
Shef. Shield .. 158 3587 22.70,
Totals .. 273 6437 23.57
Armstrong.
Tests .. .. 74 2288 30.91
Shef. Shield .. 177 4277 24.16
Totals . . 251 6565 26.15
Armstrong’s centuries in Tests were 133 at Mel-
bourne in 1907-08, 158 at Sydney, 121 at Adel-
aide and 123 not out at Melbourne in 1920-21;
Noble’s three-figure effort was at Sydney in
1903-04.
* * * *
(1) What is the arrangement between the
Maoriland Government and the Common-
wealth Government as regards the treatment of
ex-soldiers (late N.Z.E.F. and A.1.F.) who
have respectively crossed the Tasman to live?
(2) How many Maoriland ex-soldier pensioners
are there in Australia, and how many ex-A.I.F.
pensioners are there drawing pensions in Maori-
land .*—1164.
(1) The Repatriation Commission acts as the
agent of the Maoriland Government in provid-
ing all necessary medical treatment and sur-
gical appliances for ex-soldiers of the M.L.
forces resident in Australia whose disabilities
are accepted by the M.L. authorities as attri-
butable to war service; and the Pensions De-
partment, M.L., acts as agent for the Repatria-
tion Commission in providing similar facilities
under similar conditions for ex-soldiers of the
Australian forces resident in M.L. (2) At June
30, 1935, the figures were: Australian war pen-
sioners resident in Maoriland, ex-soldiers 224,
dependants 492, total 716; M.L. war-pen-
sioners resident in Australia, total 730 (classi-
fication not available).
$ $
Particulars concerning the £lO prize for the
best original poem by any contributor being
offered by the Laura Bogue Luff man Memorial
Fund committee ? —1644.
Entrance fee is one shilling. The length
of poem must not exceed 100 lines, writers
being at liberty to choose their own form and
subject. Entries close October 1, 1936. Sign
the manuscript with a nom de plume, and
enclose a sealed envelope with nom de plume
containing real name and address of the writer.
Send MSS. to Miss Studdy, 43 Wycombe-road,
Neutral Bay, Sydney.
* * * *
What are the dates of the births and deaths
of the following: Hans von Billow, Debussy,
Goethe, Max Bruch, De Maupassant and
Dvorak ? Also some particulars regarding the
life of De Maupassant? —l374.
Hans von Billow, pianist and conductor, was
born at Dresden, Jan. 8, 1830, and died Febru-
ary 12, 1894; Claude Achille Debussy, composer,
was born at St. Germain-en-Laye, August 22,
1862, and died March 25, 1918 ; Goethe’s
birthplace was Frankfort-on-Main, and the date
August 28, 1749 ; he died at Weimar on March
22, 1832. Max Bruch, composer, was born
at Cologne, 1838, and died 1920 ; from 1880
to 1883 he was conductor of the Liverpool
Philharmonic Society. Antonin Dvorak, com-
poser, was born at Miihlhausen, in the Prague
district, Sept. 8, 1841, and died May 1, 1904.
Henri Rene Albert Guy de Maupassant, who is
regarded as perhaps the greatest short-story
writer in European literature, was born in the
castle of Miromesmil, Normandy, Aug. 5, 1850.
After serving through the Franco-German War
he was initiated by Flaubert into the craft of
letters. He became a member of the natural-
istic school, and in 1880 published a striking
volume of lyrics ; he also wrote several novels
and made his reputation as a short-story writer
during the next few years. His later stories
reflect his failing health of mind and body,
due largely to excesses, and in 1893 he became
insane. He died July 6, 1893.
* * * *
How to prepare lime juice and glycerine for
the hair ? Has this dressing any beneficial
effect and can it be used daily? —ls62.
Almond oil 3ioz., oil of lemon or limes
half-teaspoon, glycerine 1 teaspoon, limewater
to Boz. Mix in a bottle and shake well. Apply
sparingly. This may be used daily as a dress-
ing and to keep the hair in position. Apart
from this it soothes the scalp and prevents the
hair from splitting at the ends.
* * * *
(1) How many International Map of the
World sheets will be devoted to Australia ? (2)
How many Australian sheets have been com-
pleted ? (3) When will the remainder be com-
pleted ? (4) Cost of single sheets ? —1539.
(1) Fifty sheets. (2) Nine completed, six
published. (3) Can’t say exactly. There is a
very large area for which no survey informa-
tion is available, and until this is obtained
the sheets cannot be compiled. It is estimated
that the work will be completed as far as may
be possible within 20 years. (4) 3s. per sheet.
Objects of the Shiplovers’ Society, address
and subscription ? Can a woman be a mem-
ber ?— 1354.
The objects are to foster interest in and
encourage the study of ships and all matters
relating thereto, more particularly of the age
just past; also to enable those with this common
interest to meet together at regular intervals at
a friendly gathering, at which addresses and
items of this particular nature are given. Mem-
bership is open to both sexes. The president
of the Shiplovers’ Society of N.S.W. is Capt.
W. J. Wade, 8 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Initial subscription is 7s. 6d., which includes
ss. yearly subscription and 2s. 6d. for a dis-
tinctive badge ; thereafter ss. yearly.
H: H* *
How to propagate camellias ? —BB9.
Camellias can be propagated by layers or
cuttings. For the latter, use ripened wood
from last year’s growth, remove all but the
two end leaves, and set the cuttings in clean
sand in pots. Keep the pots in a shady posi-
tion and do not allow the sand to dry out.
A glass frame will assist early rooting. To
raise camellias by layering, bend a limb, break
it a little where it is to be covered by soil,
and then fasten down with a hairpin. .If
the limbs are not near the ground, fill a box,
tin or earthenware pot with soil, place it on
a stand and bend the cuttings into it. Regular
watering is essential. Generally it takes about
six months before the layers are rooted suffi-
ciently to cut the limb from the shrub.
* * * *
Recipe for a crusta ? —1460.
Cut an orange or lemon in two. Pare the
rind of half in a spiral shape. Moisten
the rim of a large cocktail glass with the
juice and dip into a layer of castor sugar on
a plate, so that the sugar will adhere to the
edge of the glass and give a frosted appear-
ance. Place the peel into the glass and prepare
the following: Two spoonfuls crushed ice, two
dashes of angostura, a dessertspoonful of
grenadine syrup, two dashes of Curasao and
a sheery-glassful of old brandy. Stir and
strain into the prepared glass.
* * * *
Am renovating a keel-bottomed boat about
lift. bin. long. Do you know of a putty suit-
able for caulking inside where plank laps plank ?
The boat is exposed to very hot sun; ordinary
whiting putty and rock-hard water-putties crack
too easily, while pitch mixed with a little tar
is good, but shows up through paint. A light-
colored putty with a degree of resiliency is
desired. —1623.
No putty we know of will stand exposure
to the sun without becoming brittle. If your
boat is clinker-built the seam-fastenings may
need hardening-up or re-roving. The only real
preventive is to keep the boat covered, either
by canvas or iron covers or in a shed. Try
caulking the seams with lamp-cotton, and in
open underwater seams use chu-nam, made by
mixing Stockholm tar and shell-lime into a
stiff paste. This will show through paint, but
it will not become brittle. Never caulk from
inside. Follow the shipwrights’ maxim and
“caulk with the leak.”
* * *
Method of growing hyacinths in fibre ?
1587.
Break up the fibre into very small pieces
and mix in a quantity of crushed shells (thor-
oughly dried of salt water) and charcoal. Place
a layer of charcoal in the bottom of the con-
tainers, then a layer of the fibre, on which
stand the bulbs. Pack the fibre well between
and around the bulbs (allowing at least lin.
between each bulb and the sides of the con-
tainer), and finally cover them with a half-inch
of fibre. Keep the fibre moist until growth
takes place, and turn the containers around
every few days in order to regulate the heat
on the sides. During cold weather use tepid
water. Bulbs grown in fibre are useless for
similar treatment in future years unless they
are placed in soil in order to regain vitality.
* * * *
What is the value of charcoal to garden
soil ? —1663.
Charcoal has no manurial value, but it
sweetens the soil and keeps it porous. Where
asters, carnations, lupins, snapdragons and
roses are grown, the addition of charcoal to the
plot will do much to check mildew, wilt and
other diseases^
How to fortify garden stakes, posts and
fences against the ravages of white-ants ? —1671.
Paint them with creosote, letting it soak well
into the wood where it touches the soil. Ter-
mites must have connection with the ground
in order to live, therefore make regular inspec-
tions to break the channels through which they
travel. Also paint cracks in the posts or rails
with the mixture. Baits of arsenic and sugar
placed at the base of and around affected posts
will get rid of the vermin. The ants eat the
mixture and die and the other termites devour
their mates. The baits, however, should not
be laid where pets are kept or where children
can pick them up.
* * * *
What use is made of sun-dried bladders from
jewfish, where can one sell them and the
approximate price per pound ? —1397.
Air bladders of fishes are converted into
isinglass. They are washed carefully in either
cold or warm water to remove the blood, mem-
branes or any adhering extraneous matter, and
then dried. Isinglass is used by brewers and
winemakers for clarifying their products. A
firm such as Tooth and Cos., Sydney, should
be consulted on the question of the demand
and price. Complete details of the preparation
of isinglass will be found in Tressler’s Marine
Products of Commerce, which can be consulted
at the N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney.
* # * *
(1) What is “Parkerising” as applied to the
treatment of iron and steel ? (2) How does it
differ from “Bonderising” ? —1565.
(1) One of the rust-proofing treatments for
iron and steel articles in which the work,
thoroughly cleaned from foreign matter, is
immersed in a hot phosphate solution contained
in an iron or steel tank and made up from
water and Parco powder, the latter being an
acid phosphate containing manganese com-
pounds. The solution is operated at 210 deg. F.,
and the immersion period is from one to two
hours. (2) Bonderising is more rapid, the
immersion time being only 15min. The solution
is made from a mixture of Parco and Bonderite
powders, the latter being an acid-phosphate
mixture containing manganese, copper and iron
compounds. In this, light rust may be left
on the work, but grease must be removed.
Otherwise the process is identical with that of
Parkerising.
Brief Answers.
W.R.R.: Fur-dyeing is not an amateur’s
job; treatment requires great experience with
the use of unpleasant chemicals. If you care
to risk almost certain failure details of a pro-
cess will be forwarded. (2) No information
available. Peroxide of hydrogen applied with
a sponge will lighten the color of hair, but
will not bleach it....G.H.: Take no risk.
Your only legal course is to register the birth
forthwith, giving the true name of father and
mother. After marriage the child could be
legitimated P.J.Q.: (1) None, if the work
has been carried out and the council can prove
the cost. (2) and (3) Yes A.A.: Cannot
trace any such association. A letter addressed
to Lloyd’s Royal Exchange, E.C.3, London,
might elicit some information E.M.: As
you are no longer either owner or occupier
of the land no claim can be made on you.
The Dividing Fences Act (N.S.W.) provides
that the owner of an adjoining property may
require, by writing, his neighbor to assist in
equal proportions in erecting or repairing a
dividing fence. The requisition must be made
before the fence is erected... .K.B.L.: In Aus-
tralia the term “Esq.” used in an address has
no special significance. In Britain it indicates
a certain social status, but even there is used
more often than not by persons who do not
understand the niceties involved M.M.W.:
Take several thicknesses of a rather soft, absor-
bent brown wrapping-paper, perfectly clean,
and hold over the stains; then apply a fairly
warm iron and hold it there for a few seconds.
The heat of the iron will draw the grease into
the paper. Repeat with clean parts of the
brown paper until clean. The iron must not
be hot enough to scorch the wallpaper, but
hot enough to attack the grease through the
brown paper. If this is not completely success-
ful, finish off by applying a paste made of
fuller’s earth and water, or pipeclay and water;
leave till dry, then brush off E.P.: Lay a
folded towel under the stains and dab freely
with a sponge or soft cloth soaked in clean,
warm water containing a little cloudy am-
monia. Wash again with a fresh lot of water
to act as a rinse, and hang on the line to dry.
For slight stains, cold water is usually suffi-
cient... .B.A.B.M.: The specimen forwarded
for identification is an Oxalis sp., one of the
“wood-sorrels” or “soursops.” It is a fairly
common weed in gardens, and becomes trouble-
some if unchecked, as it forms numerous under-
ground bulbils. Constant cultivation will eradi-
cate it....S.N.: Mine Timbering, by Sanders,
Parlee and MacDonald... .W.B.: Geegetup is a
N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “a flat with
kangaroos” A.F.: Write Australian Estates
and Mortgage Co., Ltd., 56 Young-street, and
T. A. Field, Ltd., 169 Thomas-street —both
Sydney; also Peel River Land and Mineral Co.,
Ltd., Goonoo Goonoo (N.S.W.)... .R.S.: The
stage version of “Payment Deferred” was
written by Jeffrey Dell; “Of Thee I Sing,” by
George Kaufmann and Morrie Riskind
T.M.: J. A. Lyons was born at Stanley (Tas.)
on September 15, 1879 W.B.: (1) He rode
Prince Imperial. (2) Silvermine. (3) No....
.T.J.N.: Peter Pan, 16i hands; Panto, 16 hands.
. ...A.B.: Cannot trace a horse named Bees-
wing in Australia. In England a mare of that
name won races, and later proved a stud suc-
cess. .. .W.B.: Track records for six furlongs at
the various courses are: Canterbury, lmin. 12sec.;
Moorefield, lmin. 14|sec.; Rosehill, lmin.
12isec.; and Warwick Farm, lmin. 12sec. If
a horse ran lmin. 12sec. at Randwick he should
win at the other courses A.J.: Write Dept.
of Territories, Canberra, F.C.T E.H.C.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, for the fol-
lowing pamphlets: “Manuring of Tobacco,”
“Tobacco-growing” and “A Furnace for Flue-
curing Tobacco Barns”.... W.A.: Embodied in
the Rules of Racing of the A.J.C., and obtain-
able from it —address, 6 Bligh-street, Sydney;
cost Is., postage Id N.W.: Write Henry
Disston and Sons, Salisbury-road and
Gibbens-street, Camperdown, Sydney V.M.:
Presence or absence of scales isn’t an indica-
tion of a fish’s wholesomeness. Difficult to
account for the prejudice against scaleless fish;
doubtless originally prompted by ignorance, and
over the years has gradually become more and
more accepted, like other superstitions....
H.P.B.: (1) Yes. (2) Yes, provided due notice
is given, the umpire would probably allow it.
Rule 43 of the Laws of Cricket applies in both
cases... .B.H.E.: Write Central Meteorolo-
gical Bureau, Melbourne E.B.E.: Appar-
ently you refer to the “Water, Sewerage and
Drainage” rate. It must be paid. It is levied
on the assessed annual value of the land, and
is payable whether you use the water or not.
T.J.C.: There are two forms of title, “old-
system” and Torrens. Essential difference is that
the latter substitutes for the old-system or com-
mon law title a statutory title embodied in a
simple certificate, and renders this title more
secure by making compensation payable out of
an assurance fund in the event of fraud or error.
Also, it is less costly and much more expedi-
tious for purposes of transfer J.B.: There
is a ready market for kangaroo-skins, which are
handled by any of the brokers , at prices rang-
ing from about 2s. per pound L.C.C.: Write
the Chartered Institute of Secretaries, 12 O’Con-
nell-street, Sydney A.R.: (1) No. (2) Either
George Wallace or Roy Rene... .A.B.H.: (1)
A chairman has the power to vote upon any
question before the meeting, and when a vote
for and against a question is equal he may
decide the matter by a casting vote. (2) A
Speaker in Parliament does not exercise it whilst
in the chair, except as a casting vote
E.P.A.: (1) Aircraft engines are imported and
assembled in Sydney; they are not manufac-
tured here. For an imported engine try De
Havilland Aircraft Pty., Ltd., Mascot Aero-
drome, Sydney. (2) There are no agents, but
several firms handle motor-cycles equipped with
J.A.P. engines, such as F. Loudon, 334 Church-
street, Parramatta (N.S.W.); S. Ellis, 133 Goul-
burn-street, Sydney... .E.C.: The Argyrol is
instilled into the eye, not injected. It is the
usual practice to utilise an eye-dropper and
insert three to four drops D.H.S.: About
1905, with Florence Young as Paul Jones and
George Lauri as Bouillabaisse; in 1915, with
Florence Young as Paul Jones... .J.W.: (1)
To bury the deceased, collect particulars of
the estate, obtain probate of the will, notify
creditors by advertisement to send in claims,
collect all outstanding moneys, pay debts, pay
legacies within 12 months, pay income from any
trusts as will directs, keep proper books of
account, file administration accounts at end of
12 months. These are the principal duties. (2)
In the first instance he should apply to a soli-
citor who, knowing all the circumstances, may
apply to the Court. (3) Certainly not....
(Many others mailed).


lIP
i:co'*°
tc s t(f ts
Grc cl
ke»
.06
itn
IIH
an
e
tH all
er g al
■■
*«**
■I
IlSiliii
4
vvCCw^:
m
m
'■M:
1
★ Proved by
car I if i a d
performance
The Bush Balladry Competition
AWARDED THE FIRST PRIZE, £15-
Brumby Green.
The bushmen used to tell a tale in Eastern
Riverine
About an old-time squatter by the name o’
Brumby Green.
I heard the story as a youth from drovers
passing through;
And as they gave it to me then I hand it on
to you.
Old Brumby’s horses were his pride, a wild,
half-broken crowd,
With all the cunning of the hills by untamed
sires endowed;
But chief affection centred in a mare of bush-
wide fame—
He called her Julia Caesar, and she lived up
to the name!
She’d stand while saddle gear was fixed as if
she had no guile,
And Brumby on a rail near by would watch
with loving smile.
The noted breakers came from far the squatter’s
nag to test;
But one by one she “doused” them all, and
so they gave her best.
Until one day a stockman came from up
Monaro way—
A tall young chap with cheerful grin and
nothing much to say.
Old Brumby eyed him up and down; then
asked him, “Can yer ride?” •
The stranger gave a modest grin—“A little,”
he replied.
So forth was- Julia. Csesar led and mounted
then and there.
But, ’struth! the way Monaro rode she seemed
an easy chair!
The “hurdy-gurdy,” “Cath’rine-wheel” —through
all her tricks he sat;
And just to give encouragement he flogged her
with his hat.
At last she stopped, all blown and beat. Said
Brumby, “You’ll do me !
Put yer belongin’s in the hut an’ come along
to tea.”
And thus Monaro was installed. He carted in
his swag;
Then at the squatter’s table sat—and fell in
love with Mag,
The eldest girl, and she with him! . . . You
know the way it goes—
It took him only seven days of courtship to
propose.
But when he sought her dad’s consent, said
Brumby Green: “No fear!
Take Belle or Kate or Sue—not Mag; she’s
far too handy here!”
The stockman turned away to find his sweet-
heart list’ning near.
For them the joy of life was gone, the day
seemed changed and drear.
But young bush hearts are ardent hearts, and
love will find a way.
And while the old man was from home they
cleared that very day!
Monaro rode the outlaw mare and Mag her
speedy hack ...
That ev’nmg Brumby took his gun and followed
on their track.
And as he left the homestead gate he swore a
solemn oath:
“I’ll bring her back with me,” he said, “or
shoot the man —or both I”
His ears attuned to catch the sound of fleeting
hoofs ahead,
By bend and gully, ridge and flat, beneath the
stars he sped.
The sliprails of the dawn were down when on
his weary hack
He caught the truant couple up along the
Wagga track.
They reined their horses at his hail. He swung
the gun around.
“Get down! ”he roared. The pair obeyed, and
faced him on the ground.
“You keep the girl!” said Brumby Green, “but
if you lay a hand
On my mare’s reins or hide again I’ll drop
you where you stand!”
So Julia Caesar, as before, delighted Brumby’s
heart
By showing guileless newchums how a man
and mount may part. .
And later on forgiveness came; all bitterness
was past.
Monaro and his bride returned to her old
home at last.
The grass has covered Brumby Green since long,
long years ago;
And “Julia Cassar’s” but a name the yarning
bushmen know.
Monaro and his wife are gone; but down in
Riverine
A greybeard son now holds the run once owned
by Brumby Green.
MAORILAND.
C. H. WINTER.
AWARDED THE SECOND PRIZE, £7-
Ols Dan
Out in the lonely sun-scorched land where the
hot north-easters blow
Over The Patch that boomed and died in the
days-of long ago,
One, almost one, with the earth he shifts, old
Dan, of the dauntless heart,
Is still in quest of the hidden reef that will
give his boys their start.
“It’s not so much for myself,” he’d say, “that
I’m pleased to have made a bit.
Those two young kiddies of mine back home
can do with the whole of it.”
Dan’s claim was best of the first ones pegged
—“For them,’’ he’d say, “I’m glad;
It’ll give them a better start in life than ever
their old man had.”
There were other patches on which to try for
the good thing that seemed near,
But ever the good thing kept ahead as year
. succeeded year. : ,
But whenever we met with Dan we’d hear he’d
■' be back on The Patch some day;
“That gold was shed by a reef, all right, and
I’ll find that reef,” he’d say.
And then he’d tell us about his boys—and if
all of his tales were true,
There wasn’t a thing that could be done those
youngsters couldn’t do.
All that he’d made had gone to them, but a
man must play his part; ;
He wasn’t the kind to grudge the stuff that
“gave the kids a start.”
We went our ways at a slower pace; the old-
time fret and fuss
Seemed ever to grow more out of place as the
years passed over us.
We were finding the saner view, perhaps, that
time to the foolish brings,
When something happened across the world
that altered the course of things.
It was then that we caught up Dan again—it
was down Westonia way—
He had aged a lot since we’d seen him last, and
little he had to say.
We spoke of the war that would soon be won,
and we told him how and why;
And he told us that he’d just returned from
bidding his boys good-bye.
“I can’t do much for them now,” he said—
“well, not for a year or two;
I’ll be at a loose end for a while, but there’s
one thing I can do.
It’s up to me, and I’ve got the chance, now
things for a while are slack,
To give them another start in life—a lift when
they get back.
“I’ll be leaving here in a day or two, there’s
nothing to make me stay,
But you’ll see me up at The Patch again if
ever you’re round that way.
There’s a reef up there that I’ve got to find, if
that’s the last thing I do,
And I’ll be making a big mistake if it’s not a
rich one, too.”
It was only last month that we passed The
Patch, and we pulled in for a while,
For another look at another place where we’d
thought to make our pile,
For another snatch at a memory of the near-
forgotten past
When hope each morning was born anew, and
we followed far and fast.
And Dan was there as he said he’d be when
we parted years before,
Seeking still for the hidden reef that carries
the golden ore,
Fired still with the great desire of playing his
chosen part,
Dreaming still of the day to come when he’d
give his boys their start.
He did not know us, for we had passed right
out of his memory ;
But we knew the boys for whom he toiled had
died on Gallipoli;
And we knew also that the heavy blow was
greater than Dan could bear,
And we saw by signs that were all too plain
that the end of the quest was near.
Living still in the long-dead years he seeks
for the hidden reef;
Feeble his hold on the things that are, yet he
holds to his old belief.
There’s a long, long blank in his memory,
but still the old fires burn,
As he toils with the strength that is left to
him, and waits for his boys’ return.
Out in the lonely sun-scorched land where the
. hot north-easters blow
Over The Patch that boomed and died in the
days of long ago,
One, almost one, with the earth he shifts,
old Dan, of the dauntless heart,
Is still in quest of the hidden reef that will
give his boys their start.
W.A.
OSCAR WALIERS.
AWARDED THE THIRD PRIZE, £3-
In the Wind and Rain.
I hear between the dusk and dark
Strange notes upon the rising breeze,
Clear-toned among the fitful gusts
That shake the lines of darkening trees;
The song a far-off river sang,
To-night it comes and comes again,
And I am riding by dim shores
To that soft, long-remembered strain,
As once I rode in Waikato
In the wind and rain.
When through the dappled forests there
I as a barefoot urchin trod,
I thought the great and noble trees
Looked up, looked up and spoke with God:
I thought the river rolling by
Serene, distressed, then calm again,
A life’s epitome in flow,
And spent, like life, in some strange main,
When I was young in Waikato,
In the wind and rain.
The opening world was young with us,
And all the days were light and long,
Life rippled with the rhythm sweet
Of some high-toned and gallant song,
And youth was love and revelry.
And age a phantom vague and vain,
We saw not then its shaking hand,
Nor heard its prophecy of pain,
When we rode down by Waikato,
In the wind and rain.
So comes the far past clamoring back,
And I can see in eager dreams
The ratas red on rugged hills.
The flax beside the cold, quick streams,
Blue smoke drifts over nestling farms,
Bright rippling leagues of amber grain,
And loud above the river’s song
I hear the choir of larks again
Singing above Waikato,
In the sun and rain.
Ah, those were wide and gracious da>s,
Of youth untrammelled and untried,
A friend at every river bend,
A pipe to smoke, a horse to ride.
The yarns we told, the songs we sang,
The starry nights in glittering train,
Out of the medley we call life
These like a winnowing remain
Of long-gone days in Waikato,
In the sun and rain.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Full Charge and Baanya, who up to
then had been favorites for the Grand
National Hurdle and Steeple respectively,
were weighed in the balance and found
wanting at Moonee Valley. Full
Charge’s failure was not so disturbing as
that of Baanya. The former was run-
ning third when he put in a short stride
at an obstacle in front of the stand in
the Federal Hurdle and fell on his nose,
unseating Alick Fullarton. Fullarton
was lucky to escape being galloped upon
by one or other of the eight horses that
followed in the wake of the Thracian
gelding. He remained on hands and
knees in a dazed condition until ambu-
lance men rushed to his aid. The crack
crosscountry jockey was reported sub-
sequently to be suffering from shock and
a cut over the eye. His injuries might
easily have been far more serious.
Wool-baron A. T. Creswick was re-
lieved in mind over Fullarton’s escape.
He didn’t care a continental about Full
Charge having received a toss. Cres-
wick could not count the number of
horses that he owns, and might be un-
able offhand to state the extent of his
pastoral properties throughout Australia.
When Full Charge fell at the first flight
of battens in the National of 1935, for
which he started the hottest favorite on
record, A.T.’s sympathy was all for the
boy on top, knowing what it meant to
Healy to miss reaching the pillar of fame
in his branch of the riding profession.
Though the reputation of Full Charge
as a hurdler must suffer from his failure
to get round at the Valley it would be
dangerous to discard him as a National
aspirant, for the grandson of Valais
shaped like a champion before the winter
of 1936. Jumpers are taught by their
mistakes, and Full Charge may be more
careful in future.
The newspaper report that Fullarton
had definitely contracted to ride Full
Charge in the National is incorrect. Ful-
larton will make no decision until nearer
the race. When the day arrives he may
weigh out for Akanree, the hope of P. K.
Padfield’s stable. Fullarton scored a
number of victories on Akanree last
year, and holds the Comedy King stallion
in pretty high esteem. Akanree competed
in the Highweight Handicap on Satur-
day, but was quoted at 100 to 1, and ran
accordingly. The outing was merely a
pipe-opener.
Warpin (Warbracken —Papinyah) won
the Federal Hurdle so handsomely that
he must have more than an outside
chance in the National. As a matter of
fact, his trainer, F. Johnston, expects the
bay to bring home the bacon. Ramado,
a half-brother (by Trafalgar) to Waltzing
Lily, had just collared the pacemaker
Wapho when Warpin came on the scene
with an overpowering rush. The sire of
Warpin is a son of St. Carwyne, than
whom there were few better stayers.
Warbracken raced on the Melbourne
“pony” courses. So, too, did Papinyah,
and both were trained by F. Johnston,
who bred Warpin. The Federal Hurdle
winner is owned by J. E. Goodfellow, a
Sydney businessman.
Baanya was having his first run over
fences for several seasons in the Com-
monwealth Steeple, but he had schooled
well during the week. Opening at fives,
the neddy from Tasmania started firm
at 7 to 2. Two bad blunders took all
the steam out of Baanya, and he did
not finish within rifle-reach of “Did”
Farmer’s old battler Calfly, who beat
Dubup by more than a length. Hynes,
the rider of Dubup, lodged a protest for
interference at the turn into the straight.
It was dismissed, but many spectators
reckoned that it ought to have been up-
held. Wanconner, owned by the Indian
horse-trader R. V. Gove, was a moderate
third. •
The placegetters are .in the National
Steeple. Dubup looks the best of them.
It was only his second essay over fences.
Dubup performed well on the flat, win-
ning a Wagga Cup before coming to
Melbourne, and making a dead-heat 12
months ago with Sol Green’s Alaric in
the V.R.C. Sandringham Handicap.
For the most part Valley bookmakers
had a skinner when Ngapuna (Drake—
Lagune) won the opening event, the Pic-
caninny Handicap. The sister to Adam
was picked up as a yearling for 35gns.
Not being in a fashionable stable, and
having failed to distinguish herself on
previous occasions, Ngapuna was allowed
to go out at 50 to I—a1 —a nominal quote;
it was a case of “mark your own
ticket,” An apprentice took Ngapuna to
the front and she remained there without
much difficulty. The heavily-backed
Silver Reign and Heroic’s Pride were un-
placed. Heroic’s Pride cut up badly, and
beat only one rival.
Quasimodo testified to the training
skill of Bill Tindall by taking the Keilor
Handicap, in which Tapageur (25 to .1)
came from nearly last to finish second.
Tapageur, a five-year-old son of Rose-
wing, impressed as a sure winner in the
near future. George Scott, whose colors
were carried'to victory by Simeon’s Fort
in the Doncaster Handicap of 1928, is
having a wretched spin with his 1700gus.
purchase Radiant Star. The former M.L.
horse shortened from 5 to 1 to threes, but
had to be content with third.
Six horses —more than half the field-
finished almost in line in the Mount
Alexander Handicap, which Joe Hay-
ward annexed with the useful Gallibrook.
The judge decided in favor of Galli-
brook by half a head from In the Air,
with Kitty O’Shea an equally close third.
Jack Horner, Petit Fils and The Wizard
were eyebrows farther away.
Harold Skidmore gave punters their
only success for the day by taking the
Headwind Highweight Handicap on
Palatinate. It was picking up money to
back Palatinate. The neddy from across
the Tasman has recovered his best form,
and simply bolted in.
* * * *
A decided return to form on the part
of Turbulent—very welcome to his
trainer, Jack Kelso, who has been very
patient with him —has been a feature of
recent Sydney racing. Carrying a 71b.
penalty for a win at Menangle, Turbulent
outclassed his opponents in the Rosehill
Handicap. Hadley’s gelding went out
at sevens, a nice price. Braeburn was
second and Akuna third ; the judge did
not place a fourth, but that position went
to Jovial Son. Irving, wide out, was
fifth, followed by Perron, Black Laughter
and Fair Diana.
A good thing beaten at the previous
Rosehill meeting, Fair Diana was a warm
favorite. She was going easily behind
Black Laughter most of the way, but
coming round the turn the field bunched.
Black Laughter tired ; Irving and Perron
rushed round Fair Diana, and the filly
was hemmed in. Cook tried to get her
out, but Turbulent, on the outside, was
going much faster, and he won running
away. Fair Diana is to be spelled.
Cook showed to much better advantage
on Moonray (9 to 4) in the Auburn Han-
dicap. Bim Boy acted as pacemaker;
Moonray joined him at the half-mile,
and they ran to the Leger on terms, Bim
Boy moved away slightly at the furlong
pole, but once Moonray was given his
head he settled the issue, scoring comfort-
ably. Frieze was two lengths behind Bim
Boy. Frieze should do well at mid-week
fixtures. Rembrandt disappointed ; he is
hard to follow. Misnomer was fourth,
and Djojka, last at the turn, was doing
good work from the Leger.
Baltimore’s brother Gipsy Chief, raced
by his breeder Mitchell and former
crosscountry jockey Cullum, got home
in the Granville Stakes at fours. He
battled on gamely when tackled by
Rogerio in the last furlong. Menu fol-
lowed them home ; he and Sixteen Annas
beat one another by battling for the lead.
Sixteen Annas was fourth. He should
be cherry-ripe for the big jumping races
in Victoria. Spark, second at Randwick
to Zulander, failed badly.
Wee Joy (7 -to 2), a small filly by
Grand Boy’s sire, Grand Joy, was a lucky
winner of the Juvenile. The barrier
failed to function properly, and she was
out lengths in the first furlong. Mc-
Carten made good use of his advantage,
and, though tiring and shifting out, the
filly was able to hold off Legion Bird by
a head; Bull Ant was two and a half
lengths away. A protest was dismissed.
Both divisions of the Flying Welter
were good races for the Ring. For his
division Canegrass was at 12 to I—a1 —a
price that astonished this Page, which
tipped him. The chestnut, who was ex-
pertly ridden by McMenamin, had run
three seconds in succession, but backers
preferred Assai and Buonarroti. Assai
was never going comfortably, but Buon-
arroti ran a fine race. Forced wide at
the turn for home, he failed by a neck
to reach Canegrass; Speardale was a
good third. Golden Chance was backed
at eights. He looked big, and was last
early, but finished on well in sixth place.
In the second division Lanacian (15 to
1) gave the bookmakers a clean sheet.
He put in a long run over the last half-
mile, wearing down Maelstrom. Con-
trast was tailed off for several furlongs,
but her fast run had finished at the
judge’s box.
* * * *
The Derby was won by Mahmoud (100
to 8), Taj Akbar (6 to 1) being second
and Thankerton (33 to 1) third. First and
second are owned by the Aga Khan.
Mahmoud, bred in France, is by Blen-
heim from Mah Mahal. He is a grey,
described by English papers as almost
white, a color he owes to his Roi Herode
blood transmitted through his dam. A
smallish, compact horse, stayer is written
all over him, though his dam’s ancestry
influenced punters against him for a race
that calls for a stayer. His sire won
the race for the Aga in 1930, and Mah-
moud himself was second to Pay Up
in the Two Thousand.
The winner was ridden by Smirke, who
won on Windsor Lad for the Maharajah
of Rajpipla in 1934. Taj Akbar was
three lengths behind his stable-mate, a
fact which demonstrated once more that
success over the flat Rowley Mile at
Newmarket is no guarantee of victory
at Epsom, with its punishing gradients.
Thankerton, showing up well in third
place, is by Manna, but his dam, Ver-
dict, though a great performer with the
colors up, is not in the studbook. No
half-bred has yet scored at Epsom.
Australia had a slight interest in the
race. Brownie Carslake rode Magnet and
Ossie Bell, once of Queensland, who
trained Felsted, the 1928 winner, pre-
pared Lady Ludlow’s Star Comedian.
Footbrawl
The chief surprise in Saturday’s Mel-
bourne football was the defeat of Gee-
long by Fitzroy—the Maroons’ first suc-
cess for this season. It was a game of
thrills, each side in turn holding the
advantage until at three-quarter time,
with a three-goal lead, Fitzroy seemed to
have the match won. Geelong rushed
away in the final term, and was soon 15
points ahead, but the Maroons recovered
in time to snatch a narrow victory—
-17-19 to 17-13.
Billed as the match of the day because
of Saints’ improved form, the Colling-
wood-St. Kilda tussle did not come up
to expectations. Apart from an early
flash and a third-quarter rally, the sea-
siders seldom looked potential winners,
and finally went down 9-14 to ’Wood’s
16-
Geelong’s defeat relegated it to fifth
position on the list, and Richmond, by
defeating Hawthorn by 16-21 to 10-12,
rose to third place. South (15-21) con-
tinued its unbeaten run, Essendon (11-13)
being the latest victim ; and Carlton and
Melbourne both had easy victories, the
former beating Footscray by 13-16 to
7-17, and the latter North Melbourne
17- to 11.9.
* * * *
Some True Believer cabled the English
Rugby Leaguers wishing them “the best
of luck” for the first match of their tour
against Sydney at the Cricket Ground.
The gods responded with a drift of finest-
blue Manchester mist to make ta laads
feel at home, and they came charging on
the field like a spanking lot of black-and-
white bulls, suitably infuriated by the red
shirts of referee and linesmen. Brough
won the toss, though if there was any
wind it was elsewhere; and with a
whoosh on the mid-field’s churned and
slightly-sticky Bulli and a loud roar from
the 53,000 bemisted onlookers the game
broke loose. .
Three minutes later Hurley finished off
the charge of 52st. of Sydney forwards
by slipping through for a try wide out.
Brown’s kick for goal was a horrible
mistake. A couple more of his shots
were worse: one of them could have
been kicked backwards by a blindfold
barmaid. So far and for another 20
minutes the Sydneysiders looked to have
the best of it, but, forced back to their
own end, they were given a lesson in how
goals ought to be kicked. First Risman
landed a clean one from a penalty; soon
after, Hodgson, taking the ball well out
from a goal-line kick-off following a
force, drop-kicked a beauty from where
he stood. Even Brown was impressed,
and his next shot, a hard one from near
half-way, was true.
The first half had been willing, smash-
ing, pitched-battle football. The second
half was even more so: yet ta laads
showed no sign of being just off the boat.
Pitching into it, they crashed through
the very stout defence for their only try,
and any penalty within kicking distance
was a dead-sure goal. They booted three
of these for a lead of 13 to 5 without
the Sydneysiders scoring, and when the
locals came again to even things with a
try and another try and a goal, Hodgson
simply kicked another one for England,
to win the encounter, 15-13 (England 1
try, 6 goals ; Sydney 3 tries, 2 goals).
The match was lost by Sydney rather
than won by England, but this English
side is a neat lot, and will take a ton of
stopping. Beaton, who began this season
by being dumped into his club’s reserve
grade, played an extraordinarily good
game at fullback, the one spot that
looked weak in Australia’s possible Test
team. England’s skipper, Brough, made
the fullback job the star effort of his
side also.
* * *
N.S.W. again proved too good for
Queensland in the second Rugby Union
match at Brisbane, though this time the
home backs shaded the visitors. The
N.S.W. forwards dominated both scrums
and rucks, and it was only due to mis-
takes in the three-quarters and the spoil-
ing tactics of the Queensland inside men
that the Blues weren’t well ahead at half-
time. As it was the Queensland winger
McLean ran half the field for a try,
and Meibusch got another. A goal put
the Maroons in front 8-3 at lemons.
Afterwards the N.S.W. backs tightened
up and added three tries, two of them
converted, and a field goal to run out
leaders. 20-13. Hodgson was the best
of a fine forward bunch, and half-back
Gibbons the pick of a harassed back
division. Richards was rattled by Lewis’s
defence.
* * * *
The leaders are well bunched in
Sydney’s Rugby Union competition.
University, defeated by East on Saturday,
is on top, a point above Randwick and
West together, with Manly next another
point lower down, and one further away
North, East and Drummoyne in a
bunch. It was solid tackling that gave
East its win over ’Varsity, 10-6, and it
was solid tackling and superiority in the
backs that put Manly in front of Parra-
matta, 16-10. Randwick, having a lean
time recently, showed a return to form
against Drummoyne ; at the bell it was
25-10. The baby club, Gordon, had its
first win, accounting for St. George 14-6,
though it could only manage one try to
two. North, sadly missing the halves,
Gibbons and Ide, had another defeat,
10-23, against West,
f Continued on next page.)
Hector Thomson beat Terrier for the
British amateur. The Australian was
one up at the ninth and three up at the
twelfth. Then three holes were played in
a hailstorm; and Thomson had squared
at the 16th. The next two were halved,
to make them all square at lunch. Five
thousand-odd people followed the after-
noon round, played in heavy rain and a
high wind. Thomson was one up at the
24th, and went further ahead at the 26th,
his putting being a bit better than the
Manly boy’s. Terrier won the 29th to
reduce the lead, and the rest were halved
till the 32nd, which was Thomson’s. Ter-
rier won the second-last, but two splendid
shots to the green gave the Scotchman
the last, to win two up.
* * * *
If Crawford’s stamina hadn’t failed
him at the crisis, Australia would have
had the Davis Cup tie against the U.S.A.
won on Sunday. Quist accounted for
Allison in four sets, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4, 6-1, and
with Crawford he took the doubles from
Mako and Budge after losing the first
two sets. But Crawford went down to
Budge after two hours 19 minutes. Budge
won the first two sets, 6-2, 6-3, and then
Crawford took two, 6-4, 6-1, and led
5-3. The youngster outlasted him, to
win 13-11.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Royal Handicap: Dark Sky;
next. Radiant Star,
Sandringham Handicap: Palati-
nate ; next, Sarokos.
Buckingham Handicap: Gay
Circle ; next, Rebel Queen,


e
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles In 7| hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOB EUXUBY, SPEED., COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIUP & CO,. LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL. STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS;
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Brdddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
POLO PLAYERS
AS WE HAVE MADE A STUDY
OF YOUR REQUIREMENTS YOU
SHOULD WRITE FOR OUR
POLO BOOKLET AND 100-
PAGE SADDLERY
CATALOGUE.
w
the
“RANELAGH”
POEO
SADDLE,
£ll/11/9
(Mounted),
Is designed to
give player
freedom of
movement. II
is strongly made, yet wonderfully, light.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with Order.
Book by Colonel Miller on “Modern
Polo,” 27/6. Postage, 1/4 , registered.
WALTHER & STEVENSON,
LIMITED,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Turiello whipped “Red” Maloney at
Fitzroy (Vic.) on Friday, though the
spectacular “Red” put up a good show
and was on his feet at the end of the
fifteenth round. Carroll should meet the
Italian. No longer in his first youth,
he will need plenty of boxing before he
encounters Ross, who, by all accounts, is
very fast,
* * * *
“Curragh”; “Snowy” Clarke (B.
27/5/’36) met his master in Westralia
four or five years ago. In the eighth
round of a contest at Perth, Tommy Wil-
kins, a Bruce Rock boy, floored “Snowy”
with a short right cross to the chin, and
completed the job in the ninth round
with a swift right hook. Tommy Wilkins
never fought again; while splitting
mallee-roots he was struck in the left eye
by a fragment that partially blinded that
organ for ever.
Footbrawl
“Umpire’s Mate”: Rough and spiteful
, incidents marred the play in the Mel-
bourne-Hawthorn game on May 23, when
seven players were injured. As a sequel
Long (Melbourne) and Ripper (Haw-
thorn) were disqualified for four weeks
for fighting—well, not exactly that; the
evidence merely said that “they adopted
a fighting attitude.” A Fitzroy player
was also ordered to stand down for two
weeks on a charge of elbowing. These
were the first disqualifications of the
season, and it is to be hoped the effect
will be salutary,
* * * *
“Pigskin”: The suggestion has been
made in Melbourne that if League games
were played with slightly-used instead of
brand-new balls the standard of kicking
would improve, the argument being that
it takes some time for a ball to kick into
shape. Leading players and coaches have
been canvassed, and their opinions vary
considerably. Some profess to kick better
with a new ball, others the reverse. Most
agree that the ball to-day is too highly
polished. Dave McNamara claims that
kicking has deteriorated owing to the
shape of the ball now used, which is at
least two inches less in circumference
than those used 20 years ago. As he
holds the world’s record for a long-dis-
tance kick he should know.
♦ * * *
“Fitzcray”: The barge between Mel-
bourne Association and League clubs
over the pinching of players induced the
combined general purposes committee to
ask the League council to provide that
no pinching should be allowed unless per-
mission of the suffering club was first
obtained. The council’s answer was in
the negative, so pinching will go on.
sfc : I : $ '•*
“Hotham”: In a case of considerable
interest to Melbourne football clubs a
policeman was sued for technical assault.
The proceedings were brought by an in-
dividual who had objected to pay for
admission to Richmond football ground
because, in his opinion, the club has no
right to charge for entrance to what is
part of a public park. The magistrate
dismissed the claim and hung £lO costs
on the rebel. An appeal is probable.
Many football and other sporting clubs
in Melbourne use grounds which are
technically part of public reserves.
* * * *
“Drayton”: Shaken well together by
its tough game with Queensland in Bris-
bane, the N.S.W. Union side ran over
Toowoomba by 37 to 3, putting on 22
points in the last 20 minutes. The Downs
capital usually provides a tough job for
visiting teams.
* * * *
“Solidarity”: “Labor” principles got
an advertisement in Maitland (N.S.W.)
when Weston R.U. footballers refused to
play against a Maitland man because the
latter worked in a “black” pit. The
sinner offered to stand down. His club
would not surrender, and after argument
Weston walked off and forfeited the
match. There have been similar inci-
dents in Melbourne. It is hoped that
the ridiculous Maitland affair will be the
last of the kind among the coalies, but
their Federation swears it will see the
thing through.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”; After considerable barg-
ing, Kay and Bromwich have departed
for a tour of the Netherlands East
Indies. Matches will be played at Soura-
baya, Samarang, Batavia and Banjoeng.
The Dutch authorities asked for Huxley’s
inclusion in the party, but the young
Sydney player was ruled out on account
of tender years, Kay being substituted.
Both tourists were in fine form last
season, and have been showing well in
winter tennis.
* * * *
“Circus”: Someone has made the dis-
covery that McGrath was not the original
exponent of the two-handed stroke in
tennis, one H. G. Bache, who appeared
at Wimbledon in 1911, being the first
recorded. He held one hand at the end
of the handle and the other close to the
oval. Players with either hand are fairly
common, Stefani being the best-known
to-day. Sydney has one player who used
to make every stroke with both hands,
even serving that way. So far no one
seems to have emulated Mishu, who,
when he feels like it, turns his back to
the net and serves from between his legs.
* * * *
“Stade”; English tennis prestige got a
knock-back in the French champion-
ships when Hughes and Tuckey, after
“I cant possibly jump that. 1 might fall and break my neck!”
“Well, give it a go, anyhow!”
eliminating Perry and Austin, were beaten
three sets to one in the doubles final by
the venerable Borotra and Bernard.
Destremeau had already beaten Austin
in the singles.
* ❖ * *
“Centre Court”: Helen Wills Moody
has thrown a spanner into the American
tennis works by announcing that she will
not defend her world’s title at Wimble-
don this year or take part in the Wight-
man Cup tourney. She will, however,
play in the American national champion-
ships in September. Helen is understood
to have set her heart on topping Suzanne
Lenglen’s record of six world’s cham-
pionships which she equalled last year.
She had better take time by the forelock,
for the lady is growing no younger.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie”; Jim Ferrier earned his
trip to Britain with a meritorious win in
the contest for the Silver Tassie, a noted
Scottish trophy played for at Gleneagles.
The Tassie is a pot holding a pint, and
every good Scot is familiar with the song
beginning
Oh, bring to me a pint o’ wine
And fetch it in a silver tassie.
Ferrier returned a card of 140 —72 and
68 —and his score was only one worse
than the record for the event, held by
that mighty smifer Cyril Tolley since
1925. There was a field of 140, including
Locke, the South African boy champion.
Splendid golf, sustained all last week,
took Ferrier to the final of the British
amateur. He had a bye the first round,
but in the second accounted for Francis
Francis 4 and 3. Then followed Braddon
and Howell 7 and 5, Timmis and
Sweeney, who had beaten McLean, the
Sweeney match going to the twenty-first.
In the quarter-final, the Manly lad beat
Dykes 3 and 2, but the semi-final against
Hill went the full distance, Ferrier finish-
ing one up. Thompson was the other
player to reach the final, with a win over
Ewing 4 and 3.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: N.S.W. scored in the
Queensland amateur championship when
A. N. Waterson beat M. J. Ryan, of Vic-
toria, 7 and 6. Waterson outshone his
formidable rival in his short game, being
particularly deadly on the greens. His
average for the 30 holes played was two
over fours. Far and away the Moore
Park amateur’s best performance to
date ; and he is still in the pup stage.
* * * • iii
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland golf
heads charged for admission to the State
championships this year. The galleries
were as large as usual, increasing day
by day, though well aware of the risk.
A tidy sum was turned in.
“Sturt”: The professional golf cham-
pionship of S.A. is retained by Fergus
McMahon, of Glenelg. Last year
McMahon won the final from Toogood ;
this time he downed Rufus Stewart,
7 and 6. In Stewart’s four attempts at
this Dunlop Cup, he has been runner-
up three times.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth”: England is torn into fac-
tions over the choice of a cricket captain
for the Australian tour. Allen has gone
back in the betting after a mediocre shap-
ing in control of the M.C.C. against the
Indians. Among those now favored is
Turnbull, skipper-secretary of Glamor-
gan, who is regarded as one of the
most capable leaders in county cricket.
Turnbull, who was here some years ago
with an M.C.C. side for Maoriland, is
a fine batsman who tops the averages for
his county, but has few players of class
to help him. He is a Welsh Rugby inter-
national to boot.
“Amateur Pro.”; Maurice Turnbull is
an unusual amateur. He is paid secre-
tary of Glamorgan, and captains the side
as well —as an amateur. He has no illu-
sions about his job. Some time ago he
set the English cricket diehards howling
with his frank exposure of amateurs
who live on the game, and he cited his
own case as a shocking example. As
Turnbull put it, he had wasted so much
of his youth in learning cricket at school
and university that he had not time to
acquire any profession except cricket.
He took the loophole of a paid county
secretaryship as the only means of escape
from the slavery of schoolmastering.
* * * *
‘Tenth Slip”: Alan Fairfax is coming
to Australia on a three months’ trip,
landing somewhere about the end of
July. Fairfax went to England with
Woodfull’s 1930 team and did fairly well
both with bat and ball. Dropped by
the selectors when Jardine’s side came
to Australia, he returned to England,
where he established an elaborate indoor
cricket school which is reputed to have
turned out a small goldmine.
* * * *
“Spike”; Olympic officials continue to
distinguish themselves. One, commenting
on a report that the Olympic team has
to dine by itself on a one-class vessel,
explains that the sturdy democrats object
to donning dress clothes, as they would
have to do if they ate their food at the
other end of the ship. My experience
is that the average Australian rushes into
evening dress of sorts on the slightest
provocation. Some time ago I was stag-
gered to find the early-morning newsboy
at my suburban tram stop wearing “soup
and fish” under an overcoat. The youth
explained that he had been dancing all
night, and hadn’t had time to go home
and change before collecting his papers.
* * * *
“Scaler”: Alderman Marks, the Syd-
ney enthusiast, wants improvements in
methods of selecting and financing
Olympic teams. He suggests that each
sporting body nominate its own candi-
dates, provided these are up to Olympic
standards fixed by the Australian Fed-
eration, the latter body to confine itself
to endorsement. After the team is picked
an athlete may be added if approved by
the federation and if expenses are guaran-
teed by his sporting union or association.
As to finance, Alderman Marks favors
a fixed annual contribution of £lOO by
each of the affiliated unions, these to re-
imburse themselves from their members.
But past experience shows that every
sporting body would rush to nominate
every member in sight regardless of
standards, and that the federation would
take no notice of the omission, as was
the case with the team for Berlin.
Further, bodies which have been unable
to collect 6d. a head annually from their
members are likely to make a poor fist
of getting together £lO0 —most of them
can’t muster 100 pence —for the fee.
There is only one way to beat the bad
pays, and that is to inexorably ban the
members of defaulting bodies from
Olympic candidature.
* * * *
“Splash”: The Australian swimming
union has invited two Americans,
Peter Fick and Jack Medica, to visit this
country next season. Fick is a sprinter
with a world’s 100-metre record of
56 4-ssec., made in a 25-yard pool.
Medica is a distance man, and holds
four world’s records from 500 to 1000
yards.


BRANDALIERA
o**
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
0. BRASDADER & CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
e
Science Marches On!
ASTOR brings
a Batteryless . . . Troublefree Radio for the Country
Home where no Electric Current is available.
gaUe^
am
m
ASTOR 77 DW
[for homes without electric supply]
An ordinary car accumulator which
only uses a total current of 1.1 amp is
required
NO B* or C BATTERIES
Replacements costing 50/- each time now
avoided. Ordinary battery sets use about
135 volts. An altogether new power
system builds up the current from an
ordinary car accumulator to high voltage
(200 volts) to provide a ‘B’ and ‘C’ supply
equal to that of an all-electric radio,
thus ensuring—
All-Electric TONE, VOLUME,
SELECTIVITY and DISTANCE
‘FERROCART’ IRON CORE COUPLING
SYSTEM Selectivity equal to finest 7-valve
receivers. Distant stations easily separated from
strong local stations.
Delayed Automatic Volume Control . . . Illumin-
ated Dial with stations marked —automatically
switched off when not tuning, thereby saving
battery current . . . Tone Control . . . Magnificent
Cabinet of latest design with Inclined Tuning Panel.
è
Mickey Grand
TWO NEW ASTOR 136 ALL-ELECTRIC MODELS:
.... £l4/19/6. Model 190, 7-valve Dual-wave .... 33 Guineas.
Sole New South Wales Distributors:
Mick Simmons Ltd.
714-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Smith, Sons & Rees Ltd.
30-42 WENTWORTH AVENUE,
SYDNEY.
A STUDY IN SIMPLE FAITH.
The Victorian Police Department has
been slated from time to time for ration-
ing or refusing information to the news-
papers. Much of the criticism has been
unjustified—there are circumstances in
which the department must exercise its
discretion in withholding news.
But preserving secrecy is one thing and
giving misinformation is another. Wit-
ness the affair of Superintendent Brophy,
Chief of the C. 1.8.
Superintendent Brophy was admitted
to St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne,
about 11 p.m. on Friday, May 22, suffer-
ing from four bullet wounds—two in the
right wrist, one in the neck and one in
the chest.
Inquiries at the hospital later the same
night brought forth no mention of the
affair. At the routine press interview
next morning at Police Headquarters,
reporters were told that
Mr. Brophy, while examining a pistol,
was shot in the right arm when it acci-
dentally exploded.
This information was written in pencil on
a slip of paper, unsigned. The following
afternoon, after persistent inquiries, a
second statement was mad© to the effect
that Superintendent Brophy had gone to
Royal Park to catch car bandits and had
been wounded by them.
Two bandits attempted to hold him up.
He drew his automatic, but it jambed.
The bandits appeared to recognise Super-
intendent Brophy and fired four shots at
him.
As to the reason for the misleading first
report, the statement went on to say,
Owing to the dragnet which was being
placed around the bandits, who had been
operating there [i.e., in Royal Park] for
some time, it was considered advisable not
to release the true facts at the lime.
Owing to false rumors which got about
and were published it is now considered
advisable to release the true facts.
As the first statement was not released
until some 12 hours after the shooting, it
seemed rather late in the day to talk
about placing a dragnet round the
bandits. In any case, as the culprits
were fully aware of the identity of
Superintendent Brophy, it is hard to see
what purpose could be served by keep-
ing the information from the public,
some member of which might pos-
sibly have been able to assist the
police with information. If the intention
was to conceal from the culprits the fact
that they had wounded the superintendent
the department must be possessed of an
almost childlike faith if it expected them
to swallow the accident story.
On Monday, May 25, Chief Commis-
sioner Blarney found it necessary to
amplify the second statement, and re-
vealed that Superintendent Brophy,
following information received concern-
ing a reported hold-up, requisitioned a
friend to drive him in a private motor-car
to Royal Park.
They stopped the car by the roadside
near the Zoo and switched the lights off,
whereupon two men, their faces masked
with handkerchiefs, appeared.
One was armed and the other flashed an
electric torch on Brophy. Apparently
Brophy was recognised, and one of the
men fired at him. Brophy twisted in his
seat, and, drawing his pistol, returned the
fire.
The driver started the engine and drove
off, pursued by bullets, one of which
punctured a tyre. Later “a passing
motorist was stopped, and he took
Brophy to the hospital.”
In regard to the driver of the first car
General Blarney said:
Presumably the man took his car away
for repairs, which would explain why he
was not immediately available to explain
the circumstances.
Quite! It is only natural that his first
thought should be for his damaged car,
unless, of course, he placed more impor-
tance upon the welfare of a friend with
four bullet wounds, and upon the desira-
bility of getting prompt police assistance
to trace the men responsible for the
attack.
. The Commissioner further said that the
first report had been issued “in good
faith” and had been thought to be true.
Efforts to trace its source had failed.
As the report was not issued until 12
hours after the wounding, and someone
must have visited Superintendent Brophy,
it would appear that the Police Depart-
ment is endowed with a superabundance
of that simple faith which is said to be
so much better than Norman blood.
Nor would Superintendent Brophy
himself appear entirely devoid of the
gift. The reason for his visit to Royal
Park was, General Blarney “believes,”
a telephone message received at his home
on Friday night regarding a projected
hold-up in Parkville.
Outside detective fiction it is not cus-
tomary for police superintendents to go
personally and unaccompanied by other
officers into a dangerous locality to pre-
vent a hold-up or to seize desperate
bandits, and we have the authority of the
second police statement —the “true” one
—that for some time bandits had been
operating in the vicinity of the shooting
affair. .
While admiring Superintendent Brophy’s
courage and his simple faith in his own
ability to cope with the situation, it would
seem that the wider interests of the force
and the public would require that he
should take the precaution of advising
headquarters of his intentions. His route
from his home at St. Kilda to Royal Park
must have taken him within a couple of
blocks of Russell-street, and it would
scarcely have delayed him a moment to
pick up a couple of constables there.
If his idea was to lure the bandits into
a trap, a police car could have followed
the private car.
Taking it all round, the department
comes very badly out of the whole affair
on all scores except that of simple faith.
The Commissioner admits there is little
likelihood of catching the gunmen. He
has been unable to discover who sent the
telephone message, and cannot trace the
source of the first statement' which
emanated from his own department.
But the record of simple faith adds up
well.
Item 1, The simple faith of Superinten-
dent Brophy.
Item 2. The simple faith of the officers
who believed that one bullet could wound
a man in four places.
Item 3. The simple faith of General
Blarney, who managed to reconcile “the
good faith” of the first statement with the
“truth.” of the second, which denied it.
It would take many gallons of Norman
blood to outweigh that lot.


m
Interest 3|%
Price of Issue, £9B/10/-
Repayable in 1951
LOAN
Loan Opens 2nd June, 1936
and Closes Not Later than
16th June, 1936.
The Treasurer reserves the right to close at an
earlier date and partially to allot subscriptions.
Applications will be received by any Bank, Savings
Bank, Money Order Post Office, or member of any
recognised Stock Exchange.
Proceeds of the Loan will be used for Public Works
of the Commonwealth and States and for other
purposes.
Subscriptions may be paid in full or by instalments
up to Ist October, 1936. Interest will be paid on
15 th May and 15 th November of each year.
The Loan is secured as to both principal and interest
upon the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Com-
monwealth.
Interest will not be subject to:
(a) State Income Tax;
(b) Commonwealth Super Tax on property;
or
(c) Commonwealth Income Tax to a
greater extent than that imposed by the
Income Tax Act of 1930.
The Loan is an authorised trustee investment under
the Trustees Acts of all States.
Sinking Fund contributions at the rate of not less
than 10/- per centum per annum will be paid into
the National Debt Sinking Fund. Banks in Aus-
tralia will not charge exchange on cheques in pay-
ment of subscriptions or on warrants and coupons in
payment of interest.
The Loan will be repaid at par on 15 th November,
! 95 1.
Issued under the authority of the Australian Loan
Council.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
R. G. CASEY,
Treasurer.
AMOUNT ASKED FOR
£9,000,000
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
June Issue on Sale Saturday.
Special
FORESTRY COMPANY REVIEWS
Developments and Prospects
INDUSTRIAL SHARES
Their Earnings and the Sharemarhet
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
f
f
&/
I
I
1
8
1
1
1
“Having worn one of
your Governa Belts, I
am pleased to state my
waistline has been re-
duced five inches, and
my weight from 16
stone 5 pounds to 14
stone. I have not
altered my diet in any
way, and my health is
perfect. I have played
golf and cricket, and
have done a lot of
horseback riding as well
as my usual occupation,
and I have found the
Belt comfortable in
every way.”—Mr. C. J.
Dean, Adelong, N.S.W.
REDUCE Your
WAIST 3 to Sins.
w
NO DIETING—NO MEDICINES—
NO EXERCISES
A bulging waistline is not only unbecoming, but it also
endangers your health. Insurance companies know the
danger. The best medical authorities warn against it,
so don’t wait any longer.
The Governa Corrective Belt restores a more natural
bodily balance, and will make you appear inches
slimmer AT ONCE. Its elastic action causes a gentle
changing pressure on the abdomen, bringing results
formerly obtained by regular massage and exercise. In
7 short days your waistline will actually be 3 inches
smaller—3 inches of “bulge,” strain and discomfort
gone —OR IT WON’T COST YOU A PENNY.
The Belt supports the abdominal wall and keeps the
digestive organs in place—it gives you an erect, athletic
carriage and greatly increases your vigor and endurance.
Note how much better your clothes fit and look without
a heavy waistline to pull them out of shape.
FREE
SENT ON 7
DAYS 5 TRIAL
Prove, at our expense, that the Governa Corrective Belt
will reduce your girth by inches; prove that it will give
you the smarter appearance that you desire, and a
waistline of which you will not be ashamed. We will
send you this wonderful belt on 7 days’ free trial, with
the distinct understanding that it brings you the full
results you desire or else it costs you nothing. Send the
trial offer coupon at once.
POST THIS 7-DAY TRIAL OFFER COUPON TO-DAY
GOVERNA CORRECTIVE BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Gentlemen, —Without obligation on my part, send me your illustrated
folder describing the Governa Corrective Health Belt, and also give me
full details of your 7-DAY FREE TRIAL OFFER. I enclose 2d. in
stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
U 7.


e
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
JSVLNEH
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
So Much, and No More
Australian exports for 1934-35 were
valued at £90,000,000 sterling. For the
first nine months to March 31 this year,
thanks mainly to better wool prices, they
had already reached £86,000,000 sterling.
For the full year they may amount to
between £110,000,000 and £120,000,000.
If £120,000,000 is reached it means
that we have that much current revenue
to pay for interest, imports and invisible
charges overseas. Just that much, or a
very little more —Australia’s invisible
overseas income in respect of services,
interest and dividends is negligible. If
we import goods, pay interest and meet
capital withdrawals (such as the cost of
tourist trips) to an amount greater than
our income, we have either to draw on
our London reserves or borrow.
If London reserves become .exhausted
and we are unable to borrow overseas,
we have to default to somebody as long
as current overseas income is insufficient
to meet current overseas payments. It
isn’t likely that even the Lyons Govern-
ment would allow the position to drift
to that extent if it was awakened to the
fact; but it might be tempted to revive
overseas borrowing—it has been talked of.
So far as our London reserves are con-
cerned, they have been variously esti-
mated ; official information is practically
impossible to get. Assuming that they
amounted to £50,000,000 sterling
at June 30, 1935, they will be
drawn on substantially this year
even if surplus exports meet over-
seas interest. Tourists have taken,
and continue to take, large sums
out of the country, and withdrawals
of capital are still being made.
London balances include the
backing for the Commonwealth
note issue. It is a reckless trade
policy that would endanger that.
Banks generally are more pleased
with the position now than a few
months back, but we have been
running close to the wind, and, tied
to Ottawa as the Canberra Govern-
ment is, the outlook doesn’t inspire
the best of confidence.
Wool certainly has remained
very firm, and has swollen our
overseas income considerably; but
so long as tariff protection continues to
be pared down, so will imports continue
to offset or outstrip this benefit. The
International Labor Office, in a recent
analysis, attributed the European trade
“boom” largely to rearmament, and not
to trade recovery. While there is any
unreliable element in world industrial
activity it will be unsafe to depend too
much on the continued keen demand for
our export products. In any case, our
London funds scarcely amount to ade-
quate drought reserves.
Earle Page is in Britain at the moment,
making the best bargain he can as regards
British preferences. Canberra has staged
a tariff demonstration (no, not cement —
the anti-Jap-U.S.A. amendments and pro-
hibitions) that may help him in his nego-
tiations. British exporters are jubilant,
and Australians will perhaps be equally
pleased (or relieved) if time shows that
we could really afford to make such
drastic changes.
Ottawa agreement or not, it is time
politicians, Australian and British, realised
the plain and obvious fact that the
Commonwealth cannot buy more than
it sells, in the long run, without
borrowing. We pay £20,000,000 interest
a year in London already for goods which
have never been paid for as between
countries. Our total public debt repre-
sents a burden of £lB6 a head, £B7 of it
due overseas. It is no time to consider
going further info debt, though every
time immigration is brought up there is
also a suggestion that migrants should be
accompanied by British money (on loan).
We have so much to spend overseas
each year, and no more. When John
Bull and Uncle Sam get their interest
out of it, there is that much less. The
interest represents part of the cost of
previous excessive imports, and it should
be considered in our accounts with the
lenders when we reckon up the balance
of trade with them.
Output of pig-iron at the B.H.P, New-
castle steelworks for the month to May
10 was 49,381 tons, a slight reduction on
the previous four weeks. Production
of ingot steel (47,834 tons) was also down
slightly. But the figures are considerably
up on the same month of 1935; and for
the full 52 weeks output of pig-iron
(603,308 tons) was up 96,017 tons, and
ingot steel (622,472 tons) increased
105,734 tons. Average improvement was
19.7 p.c., as indicated here some months
ago. About this time last year the co.
made substantial reductions in the prices
of its principal products, bringing
charges for some heavier items to below
“ ‘Thought it wouldn't hurt him?' What do you mean ?”
“Well, y’r’Onor, I shot ’im with a soft-nosed bullet."
British c.i.f. rates. With the increased
turnover, however, costs should be
brought back —the organisation is highly
efficient —and the outlook for share-
holders remains attractive.
* * * *
“Steel”; Reports that Broken Hill
Prop, is the probable or potential maker
of motor-car engines under the scheme
just put forward by the Commonwealth
Government may or may not be well
founded; but the co. certainly looks the
most likely to take on the job with the
ability to carry it out successfully. When
the Newcastle steelworks started produc-
tion in 1915 G. D. Delprat told me that
the works would be able to make guns
for Australia if required. It has also been
suggested that Mort’s Dock may be ab-
sorbed by this growing Australian giant.
If so, we may see an Australian ship-
building industry established. That would
be as worthy of Commonwealth support
as anything one can easily call to mind.
* H= * *
Australian Glass is paying a final div.
of 10 p.c., making 15 p.c. for the year
to March 31, a rise-of 2 p.c. on last year.
Of the handout, 5 p.c. will be from in-
vestment income, as against 4 p.c. last
term. The sharemarket was disappointed ;
following sales around 925. 6d., the £l
ords. dropped back to 90s. last week.
Allowing for the div. due, the yield at
that figure is £3 Bs. 2d. per cent, on a
15 p.c. div. basis. Some supporters,
apparently, are still expectant.
* * * *
Interest in chain-store concerns has
been given a fillip by Woolworths’ one-
for-one capitalisation. G. J. Coles ords.,
which Maoriland has been buying lately,
have sprung to 795. A month or so ago
they had slipped to below 70s.
At the end of 1935 459,000 people
were directly employed in Australian
factories —a record. The recent tariff
amendments affecting Japanese textiles
have been followed by rises in Australian
textile cos.’ shares —Lustre, Holeproof
and Amalgamated Textiles are cases in
point. There is uncertainty, however, as
to whether the “policy” which aims at
transferring a large part of Japan’s ex-
port business with us to Britain wouldn’t
also favor the British exporter at the ex-
pense of the Australian manufacturer.
There is no necessity for woollen textiles
to be imported into Australia at all;
some local mills are doing excellent work.
But there’s no telling what industry the
Government may have a go at next.
$ * * $
The value of Australian exports in
1934-35 was £9O millions sterling, equal
to £ll3 millions Australian. Imports and
interest called for more than the total.
During the same period output of Aus-
tralian factories was £360 millions Aus-
tralian, and the larger portion of the out-
put (the main exports were butter, indus-
trial metals and processed hides) would
be consumed in Australia. It is clear
from the figures that present primary pro-
duction couldn’t pay for all the things
which Australians consider necessary to
their existence if they had to be imported.
Factories, indeed, did much to save our
credit during the period when export
prices were so depressed and when we
were so short of funds overseas.
* * * *
Australian Transcontinental Airways,
Ltd., has decided to liquidate. Formed
in August, 1935, the co, ran for a while
the first Adelaide-Darwin service. The
public wanted it continued, but revenue
wouldn’t meet exes. At one stage it was
proposed to import Junker Diesel-engined
craft by means of wool barter, but plans
went astray. Shares are paid to 4s.
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper (ss. appli-
cation and allotment paid) slipped back
to 4s. 9d. in Melbourne last week.
Quotations opened at about ss. 9d.
* * * *
N. S. Wales building activity for the
March quarter was well up on the figure
for the same period of 1935. It was also
up on the December quarter. Suburban
house construction is the principal feature
at the moment, April was a more active
month than March, despite tightening of
credit.
❖ * sjs
The Sydney wool price index at May
16 was 171, as against an average of 172
for the months of March and April.
Wheat stood at 105, as against 106 in
April and 108 in January. In May, 1935,
the index was 93.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: There is not much in the
game for the working fisherman in
Queensland to-day. Recent inquiries
showed that among the 1600 men en-
gaged in the industry the average weekly
return was £2 for an average working
day (often night) of 12 hours. Those who
expect to do any better need to be able
to put at least £250 into boats, nets and
gear, according to the class of work they
take up. Ice, ice-chests, cases, freight, rail
and wages all have to be deducted from
market returns, as well as commission
and market charges. Average Brisbane
market price for snapper is per
pound ; average retail price to consumer
Is. Over 70 p.c. of fish sold is mullet,
round about sd. per pound retail. Yet,
curiously, when there is a glut of first-
rate sea-mullet and prices drop to half
or less, there is no appreciable increase
in sales.
Adelaide’s biggest show for many
years, the Centennial Exhibition, in a
hall of that name built for it at the Agri-
cultural Showground at Wayville, has
closed after running for eight weeks. It
drew 727,000 visitors, which is well over
the whole population of S.A. Run by
the Chamber of Manufactures, and re-
stricted to Empire goods, it gave the
State a good ad., and also was a finan-
cial success.
* * * *
West’s, Ltd., the best-ribbed of the
holding cos. in the Greater Union
Theatres group, dropped its div. from
p.c. to H p.c. in respect of the year to
March 31. Profits (£3980) were actually
£3Ol higher, but the previous handout
had called for considerably more than
disclosed earnings. Income at present is
entirely from interest and rents (the co.
has a holding of Commonwealth bonds);
the picture combine handed on nothing
during the year, though its position is im-
proving. West’s shares, following sales
at 11s., are around 10s. now.
* * * *
The Van Diemen’s Land Co., which
sold forest areas in the Speck to the new
paper co. interests in 1935, is returning
3s. a share to shareholders as a result
of its land sales. Turnover in real estate
was £50,155. No divs. have been paid
since 1919.
* # * *
There is still a shortage of butter in
Australia, which is being reflected in our
exports. During the first week in May
shipments were on half the scale of the
same period in 1935. London prices are
firm; Australian “Kangaroo” was fetch-
ing around 925. sterling last week, as
against an average of 87s. for April and a
range of 725. to 765. in April, 1935.
* * * *
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd., Sydney,
is paying p.c. for the year to March
31, as against 10 p.c. in the preceding 12
months. R. H. Gordon, which paid 15
p.c.. in its last term, is handing out a
sweetening of bonus scrip—one for four.
* * * *
Selfridges (Aust.), Ltd., the Sydney
chain-store concern, is looking for £41,131
more ord. capital. It is intended later
on to extend trading beyond N. S. Wales.
There have been no recent divs.
* * * *
Morris Motors, the English co., netted
£1,167,700 in 1935, up £614,800 on 1934.
Industrial earnings in the Old Country
at present are buoyant in many sections,
especially those not overcapitalised or
out of date. Some of the heavy indus-
tries, however, aren’t quite so responsive
to improved trade.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Irowat Gold (N.G.) announced that its
hydraulic scheme was to have been completed
by May 23, and that sluicing would begin
on that date. To the end of the week there
had been no confirmation from New Guinea.
Following a poorer crushing (averaging about
9dwt„ attributable partly to development ore
milled), Central New Gwynne shares weakened
temporarily, but quickly rocketed to 365., the
highest sale to date.
Dunlop-Perdriau ord. shares sold at 18s.
3d. following the directors’ announcement that
profits for the year to June 30 should show a
substantial improvement on the 1934-35 result,
when the ord. div. was passed over. In 1933-34
5 p.c. was paid.
Carlton Brewery shares sold very strongly
(at 575. 9d. on Thursday); the div. was lifted
from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c. for the year ended
Dec. 31. The operating co. (Carlton and
United) has lifted its div. from 8 p.c. to 10
p.c., and Carlton’s earnings should warrant a
12£ p.c. div. this term. If that rate is paid
the yield at 575. 9d. would be £4 6s. 7d.
per cent.
Consols continued to weaken in anticipation
of the loan which opened for subscription on
June 2.
Triton (W.A.) declared its first div. (6d. per
10s. share), payable July 3.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SHOHS
“Strike Me Pink!”
Eddie Cantor in another “sap” role.
No plot can be too mad for Cantor to
hang some uproarious nonsense on, and
this one has the required degree of in-
sanity.
Eddie is the meek proprietor of a little
shop within a university. He is protected
from raggers by a freshman whose phy-
sique is far superior to his mentality.
Eddie wangles his friend through his
degree with the aid of a hidden micro-
phone ; he is rewarded by being made
manager of a big amusement park run by
his protector’s mother. Protector be-
comes a gob, and the film—fortunately
—knows him no more.
Eddie’s five predecessors in his new
office have all met sticky finishes through
failure to see eye to eye with a gang of
toughs who demand the installation of
150 of their phony gambling machines
in the park. The new manager’s bone-
Groucho Marx in “A Night at the
Opera,” at Sydney St. James.
headed efforts—aided by a lady secretary
and a correspondence course in what
seems like a cross between super-Coue-
ism and psycho-analysis— to outwit the
villains land him into tight corners,
but blind luck and his faithful bodyguard
(Parkyakarkus the Greek) assist him to
success.
Sally Eilers gives good support as the
secretary, but Ethel Merman’s crooning
is shocking. The music is below par.
Interpolated are a few gorgeously-set
ballets with typical Goldwynian girls in-
sufficiently clad.
The film doesn’t reach the high stand-
ard of “Roman Scandals,” but Cantor’s
fooling is always delightful, and he has
a good foil in the Greek with the omin-
ous name. At Sydney Regent.
“Don’t Gamble with Love”
This thoughtful domestic-problem
drama has been well handled, and fine
restrained acting by the entire cast gives
it conviction. Its chief fault lies in the
rather ragged ending.
Jerry (Bruce Cabot) and his wife (Ann
Sothern) are running a fashionable
gambling house. She induces him to sell
out, fearing the influence such surround-
ings will have on their child’s upbring-
ing. A family friend gets Jerry made
director of his corporation, and within
three months he becomes a vice-president.
But after having been given a short
vacation he returns to the office to find
the G-men in and the F.F. flown.
Apparently Jerry convinces the police
of his innocence, but he gets out of it
with a depleted roll, and determines to
return to honest gambling. He quarrels
with his wife over the decision and they
part, she to become a dress designer,
Jerry to open a joint near his old stand.
The purchaser thereof is justifiably
annoyed. When Jerry proposes to ex-
pand! his business, having done well, the
opposition organises a gang to “get” him.
His wife hears of the plot from a boy
friend and warns Jerry. He ignores her
warning ; she sees the gang entering the
building, and exposes her lord to the
patrons as a cheat. That spells finish to
the biz., but it saves his skin. After that,
explanation, reconciliation and exalta-
tion, with morality one up at the fade-
out.
Almost the entire histrionic effort
devolves upon Bruce Cabot and Ann
Sothern, and they are equal to the task.
There is neither hysteria nor wild recrim-
ination in the matrimonial bust-up, which
is conducted with quiet dignity, a pattern
for all in the married state. Also at
Sydney Regent.
“Desire”
Only weak spots about this Lubitch-
produced comedy-drama are its title and
the hackneyed nature of much of the
plot material. The beauteous Continental
jewel thief who wins the love of a 100
p.c. American and thenceforth renounces
a life of criminal adventure has used up
millions of feet of celluloid, and her story
can hold few surprises for a cinema-wise
generation. But if ever there is a museum
for films this one should have a place in
it as a well-nigh perfect model of its
type. Construction is excellent —the open-
ing sequences outline something new in
jewel-theft technique, and new characters
and new situations keep cropping up to
hold the interest. Acting shines on every
facet, casting has been done with meticu-
lous care and the very best of which each
player is capable is brought out. Mar-
lene Dietrich, as the lady in the case,
exercises a lighter touch than ever
before ; Gary Cooper, as her admirer, is
at his happiest, and the character studies
given by Alan Mowbray as an alienist,
John Halliday as a stylish crook, Effle
Tilbury as an old lady who took the
wrong turning and Ernest Cossart as a
Harpo Marx in a “Night at the Opera.”
diamond merchant are masterly. At
Sydney Prince Edward.
“Timothy’s Quest”
An adaptation of a Kate Douglas
Wiggin story, designed chiefly for juvenile
consumption, but with a sentimental
appeal to adults of the mental age of
11. It depicts the flight of two children,
played by Dickie Moore and Virginia
Weidier, from a hovel in which they pig
it with unkind foster-parents. Friendly
tramps help them on their way, and the
wanderers land at a farmhouse, where
a sour old girl gives them food, clothing
and shelter, rebuking herself for her
philanthropy. Also at the Prince Edward.
“King of Burlesque”
This typical backstager has plenty of
action, a very ordinary plot, some fairly
amusing situations and mediocre music.
The ebullient comedy of Jack Oakie,
who fires clever wisecracks at the rate of
ten a minute out of the corner of his
Chico Marx in a “Night at the Opera.”
mouth, lift's the show from the ruck.
Kerry Bolton (Warner Baxter), a
Broadway producer, is on top of the
world when, hankering after elegance, he
attends a Park-lane auction sale. There
he falls for a refained widow in reduced
circumstances (Mona Barrie). He mar-
ries her, much to the sorrow of leading-
lady Patricia Doran (Alice Faye) and his
chief urger, Joe Cooney (Jack Oakie).
His 1.1., who silently adores the
“bawss,” beats it for the London stage,
and Kerry goes broke putting on refained
shows at his haughty wife’s behest. Pat
hears of Kerry’s fall, loyally returns and
puts up the lucre, using a down-and-out
masquerading as a Russian “backer” to
cover her philanthropy. Kerry knocks
his run of failures cold with a peppy
show, with leading lady and producer
in an overdue clinch at the curtain,
haughty wife having hopped it with a
boy-friend who aspires to grand opera.
The hardest work in the production
has been put in by the gag-men. Shapely
beauties abound, and the highlight of
the show is a chorus on trapezes which
gives an entirely new angle to curves.
Nothing brilliant about this film, but it
is pleasant, light entertainment. At Syd-
ney Capitol.
“Another Face”
Indifferent acting doesn’t help the
hopeless plot of this lurid melodrama.
A broken-nosed gangster (Brian Don-
levy) is given a new face by a plastic
surgeon, whom his henchman thereafter
slays. The attending nurse (Molly
Lament) escapes. Then the handsome
bad man develops a supercharged ego
on viewing his new frontispiece, and
crashes into “pictures.” He is an awful
actor, but that doesn’t stop him from
being starred. The nurse, engaged to a
film actor, recognises him. Follows ex-
posure while he is on the set.
The final sequences where the villain
is desperately trying to escape are excit-
ing. He is nabbed by the live-wire pub-
licity director (Wallace Ford).
Good comedy work by Wallace Ford
and Alan Hale as a harassed producer
fails to lift this film from below medi-
ocrity. Also at Sydney Capitol.
“King of the Damned”
More—a lot more —money spent on
this Sydney Plaza film might have made
it comparable with the early part of
“Captain Blood.” Having a good story
about a revolt on an island penal settle-
ment and a good actor in Conrad Veidt
to lead the revolt, the director apparently
decided that he must add something with
a more obvious appeal. He chose Helen
Vinson and Noah Beery to provide it.
Beery does his share splendidly. A
blustering, good-natured, stout-hearted
convict, he is Veidt’s lieutenant in all
that concerns the revolt. He kills a
convict about to betray their plan, and
finally sacrifices himself for Veidt—
knocks his leader out and dashes off
across a shell-strewn square on the
errand Veidt had chosen for himself.
Good, red-blooded stuff this, if a trifle
out of place in the film. But Miss
Vinson is a weakness. She says all she
has to say in the same dull monotone ;
confesses to being responsible for the
failure of the revolt just as she asks the
orderly to pass the salt: unconvincing
and herself unconvinced.
Veidt is as polished as ever. He in-
vests the simplest statement with a wealth
of meaning, and he impresses as the
man to organise a revolt of convicts on
such a huge scale. But somehow he
doesn’t put as much vigor into it as he
did in earlier films, and he has almost no
chance at a long speech.
It is on scenery that the money could
have been spent. The island of Santa
Maria is apparently an American penal
settlement. The prison square is well
done, but scenes in the jungle where the
convicts are building a road are poor-
misty and indistinct.
“Love Before Breakfast”
Unimportant story about a high-
spirited girl (Carole Lombard), a self-
centred young man (Cesar Romero) to
whom she’s engaged, and a charming and
rich young man (Preston Foster), the
self-centred person’s boss. He is in love
with the girl; she says she hates him
and loves the other. It’s worked put
after the young woman has appeared in
evening dress, street frock, riding habit
and negligee. An undistinguished film,
Paul Muni in “The Life of Louis
Pasteur,” at Sydney Lyceum.
But the acting is good enough, and Holly-
wood learned long ago how such a story
should be told. Also at the Plaza.
“The Perfect Gentlemain”
ri , rourtneid«*’« an nearance
• Uce 7 Courtneidge s first appeara
ln . an American-made film Despite the
ministrations, »t Hollywood hatrdresser
and . cost “? ler f and ! he d f a,es „ ° £
American directors she has not changed
Sha P. lays a P art . she has ? £tan played
rea ! llf t“ that Q ° f a .™J SK - hall s,ar r Parp
er ” 90 mlnutes ° r s ° o££o °’ ary
ls Frank Morgan as a stonebroke army
offl . ce . r ; re ' lred l H ! s . s 0" s
and ! he family objects to bis gadding
ro . und Wd \.l-,"T ’ iff w
* h . e , n pa “ hlbl , ,s hlrasel£ befo e
ll8 “ s - The film meanders a l°"S Pleas-
antly, with Cicely in one of her most
boisterous moods and Morgan always the
perfect gentleman. At the St. James,
Sydney.
C nmo NioTife
DOme rirS t DUgIMS
“Three Men on a Horse,” which
opened at the Sydney Royal on Satur-
day, is a skilful blending of farce and
comedy, and proved to be one of the
brightest non-musical shows the Firm


A REAL MAN’S BELT AT LAST
Saddler-made of the finest selected Oak Bark Tanned Solid Hide, with Monogram
Buckle Clasp of ANY TWO or THREE letters.
I —
m
3/6
Per Registered
Post. Free
Anywhere.
This illustration reproduces the actual size of MONOGRAM BUCKEE. The ANCHOR
MONOGRAM BUCKEE is made of strongest gunmetal, and the letters are pure
SIEVERPEATE on SOEID NICKEE, and will last for ever. Simply state the initials
you desire, any two or three letters.
JOHN APRIAT, Radio House, 3rd Floor, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1003.
3
JAVA- %£ ‘Paradise &r ‘lOinler^
JUNE & JULY SAILINGS,
Nieuw Holland and
Nieuw Zeeland
CALL AT BOELELENG
(BALI).
(For disembarking passengers only .)
Special first-class return fares for
Winter from Sydney and Brisbane,
£67/10/- to Java and £75 to
Singapore— no Exchange. Slightly
higher from Adelaide and Mel-
bourne. Special low rate quoted
these sailings for 3 days through
Bali.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Dalgety & Co.. Ltd.. ISrisbane.
Vcyal Jacket Ca
PAKETVAART HOUSE, 255 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
we
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
5»
pi
INGOT
TWEED TROUSERS
for Hard-working Conditions
Where the work is hardest . . . and wear
and tear is greatest —Ingot Work Trousers
will prove their worth.
They keep their shape and are colour-fast.
Even repeated boilings will not give them
that “washed-out” appearance. And wear
—you’ll be pleasantly surprised at the
length of time it takes to wear them out.
Made in Australia from
Australian Cotton
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
■*« Motor
Mechanic
/ - MOTOR ELECTRICIAN
AH
**our
™ Free
BOOK
TTTEUS YOU HOW
YOU CAN LEARN
ALL ABOUT MOTORS
IN YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME....
learn MOW TO Fixlf
DO NOT MISS THIS OFFER
Bach student Is supplied with Instruc-
tion Papers. Lessons, Blue Print Charts,
and Illustrated Reference Books. We
are, however. making a wonderful
Special Offer for One Month. Tou
owe it to your future to get the facts —
NOW
One grateful student wrote;—"lt was a
lucky day for me when I chanced on
your advt.” . . . Post the COUPON and
get the full facts for yourself.
OVER £6 A WEEK
Qualify for a diploma as MOTOR
MECHANIC and secure your Indepen-
dence. One student wrote; "Thank
you for putting me where I- am to-
day. . . I am earning £6/6/- per
week.” Another:—"Your course was
the means of me getting with
General Motors.” Another has been
appointed Mechanic at a big garage
at £6/18/- per week. (Our diploma
in each case was the deciding factor.)
Another started his own garage and
is doing good business. Another is
making good money doing repairs in
his spare time.
200 FREE BOOKS
I am giving away a P'ree Book, en-
titled “AH About Motors,” to the first
200 who post me the coupon.
OWNER-DRIVERS, TOO
Remember that this course is essen-
tial to every MECHANIC. Prospective
MOTOR MECHANIC, as well as to
every OWNER or OWNER-DRIVER.
Post Coupon for Free Book
The Motor Engineer.
AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
ROMA HOUSE, GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Please send me (without obligation)
Your FREE BOOK, “All About Motors.”
and tell me about your special offer of
Home Study training in MOTOR
MECHANICS, and how I can qualify.
Name ....
Occupation Age.
Address
l a.
has put on for years. It bubbles with
good honest fun throughout.
It all concerns a mild young husband
who earns a modest crust penning
Mother’s Day verses for his employer,
and whose sole vice is the picking of
“paper” winners which he never backs.
Following domestic strife with his over-
bearing brother-in-law, he rebels, going
on a bender instead of to the office.
At the pub his queer gift becomes known
to three punters of the Bowery brand.
Thus his name Erwin becomes Oiwin,
and his modest literary efforts are re-
. ferred to proudly by his new-found turf
friends as “woices.” The subsequent
comedy revolves around the quartet and
a girl, with side-shoots of sheer farce
to add to the merriment.
The bulk of the work falls on Jona-
than Hole as “Oiwin” and Louis Tanno
as Patsy. Their parts fit them as easily
as do well-worn shoes. Sound work in
support is done by Fred Sherman and
John Darcy as the other punters. Gay
Seabrook as Mabel, Patsy’s girl, gives a
fascinating study of hard-boiled inno-
cence—a weird anomaly. Her babyish
voice is at first startling, but after a
few minutes one wouldn’t have it other-
wise. Betty Hanna does neat work as
the wife who kicks over the traces of
her brother’s domination. Cecil Perry
as a brother-in-law calculated to inspire
homicidal tendencies in the meekest of
husbands is at his best when he does his
wad on a misunderstood bet, and Mar-
shall Crosby is a competent barman.
Sadie Bedford, John Fernside, R. L.
Atholwood and Austin Milroy are strong
in character roles.
The play is by John Cecil Holm and
George Abbott. Frederick Blackman
was responsible for its smooth produc-
tion.
•b *b *b *b
A better cast and more elaborate set-
tings made the revived “Waltzes from
Vienna,” which opened at His Majesty’s
Theatre, Melbourne, last Saturday, a
more pleasing performance than the
original production of four years ago.
The story is based on the elder Johann
Strauss’s objection to the younger’s in-
novations in musical composition, and
it gives scope for the presentation of
many tuneful pieces by both father and
son, leading up to a climax with the
elder Strauss’s recognition of “Schani’s”
genius through his “Blue Danube.”
Among the principals the honors go
easily to the feminine leads. Marie
Bremner is Resi, a pastrycook’s daughter,
with whom young Strauss is in love, and
Strella Wilson takes the part of the
Countess Olga, whose scheming gives
him his chance to make his works
known. The singing and acting of both
these players are of a high order, and
beside them the young men of the cast
seem stagey. For this the convention
which insists that Viennese characters
shall speak haltingly is perhaps
partly responsible. In this tradition
no elision is allowed, and each vowel
must be given its full quantity, whether
needed or not. The result is to make
all the speeches stilted. “That’s the man”
becomes “That—is—thee—man,” and
even when a character quotes “All’s fair
in love and war” he places equal em-
phasis on every word, including “is,”
“in” and “and.”
Strella Wilson ignores the convention
and speaks like a human being ; Marie
Bremner follows it at times and achieves
a charming effect, but John Fraser (the
younger Strauss) and Arthur Clarke (his
rival for Resi) overstress it until it be-
comes tiresome.
Still, the essentials of this play are
the music and the dancing, and both
measure up well. The voices form one
of the best collections got together for
some time, and they do full justice to
the Strauss melodies.
Numbers which scored most success
on Saturday were “You Are My Songs”
(Marie Bremner and John Fraser), “Like
a Star in the Sky” (Strella Wilson and
John Fraser) and, particularly, “With All
My Heart” (Marie Bremner). The ballets,
led by Cornelia Lodders, are excellent,
and the chorus is well up to standard.
Comedy parts in this show are not
memorable, but Cecil Kellaway and
Leslie Donaghey make the most of the
backchat roles, and Sydney Wheeler is
adequate as “the fireworks man.” Frank
Bradley is very sound as Strauss, senior,
and Leslie Holland, Guy Hastings,
Robert Coote and Reginald Newson are
well-known actors whose good work in
minor parts helps to make the show a
success.
*b *b *b *b
The Independents’ production of
Jeffrey Dell’s “Payment Deferred,” at
Sydney Savoy, was noteworthy for the
acting of William Rees in the part of
William Marble. William is a London
bank-clerk, financially embarrassed and
frustrated ; he poisons a wealthy nephew,
buries the evidence in the back garden,
speculates and becomes wealthy. But
fear compels him to go on living in his
mean house. An affair with a French
dressmaker lands him in still greater
trouble. His wife learns of the murder,
and the knowledge does not shake her
loyalty, but when his infidelity is made
known she poisons herself. Marble is
suspected of murdering her, and an epi-
logue reveals that he has been convicted
and hanged. Rees, though no Laughton,
was capital throughout. Gertrude Johns
gave an almost equally consistent por-
trayal of the wife. Freda McGhee,
Donald McNiven, Maxwell Osbiston and
—noticeably—Betty McConnell assisted.
•b *b *b *b
As a satire on peace conferences, A. A.
Milne’s “To Have the Honor,” done by
Sydney Thespians at St. James’s Hall, has
some delicious moments; but because
of a surfeit of small talk and some drab
characterisation there are dreary ones. A
bogus “prince” descends on an English
village, and some humorous situations
develop from the heart-flutterings of the
community’s most eligible (and ineligible)
young women —especially as the impos-
tor’s wife, also under an alias, arrives
too. Mavis Corven’s vigorous imper-
sonation of a go-getting widow was the
best bit of acting. Arthur Spence, Cree
Jackson and Fenton Dobson gave toler-
able support. “The Language of Love,”
with Kay Brooks as a madcap and
“Rosemary” a coquettish Dolly Varden,
heralded the Milne piece.
•b *b 4* 4*
Eileen Joyce, a white wisp of a girl
whose arms look as strong as steel cables,
has been sitting under a floodlight at the
Melbourne Assembly Hall piano before
large and distinguished audiences. The
floodlighting arrangements are a bene-
ficent innovation introduced into the
platform-concert business by A.B.C.
Miss Joyce played Schumann, Brahms,
Liszt, Friedman, Cyril Scott and other
old and new composers; but it is as a
Bach exponent that she asks to be ac-
cepted. The organ preludes and fugues
of that master come from under her
strong fingers with force and decision.
There was the same firmness of touch
in her playing of the Sonata in B Minor,
Op. 58, of Chopin.
4* *b *b *b
When a haughty pair ride up to an
inn, and next morning the lady rides
away with the manservant, while the
gentleman makes tentative advances to
the maid, comparison with the “Load
of Mischief” drama is inevitable.
Dymphna Cusack, however, is original
enough in the details of “Red Sky at
Night,” produced by Alex. Foster for
the Adelaide Repertory Theatre. The
inn is at Parramatta, the date 1815, and
the end is an ambiguous “They have
escaped,” which could mean either the
successful crossing of a river in flood—
or drowning. Fred James carried the
play as a smiling and detestable officer;
Beryl Kook and Robert Matthews (as
an Irish “rebel.” convict-hero) having
mainly to stand about and be cajoled or
cursed. Ronald Simpson, Thelma Sea-
man and especially Phyllis Simpson were
sound as the innkeeping family.
•b *b *b *b
“Jachris”; I don’t agree with the person
who wrote (B. 27/5/’36) that “Norda
Mata’s season is one that no lover of
the interpretative dance can afford to
miss.” The lady chooses to call herself a
“creative dancer” rather than an inter-
pretative dancer. She claims that by
her dancing she can convey her own
impressions to her audience. But it is
necessary for the dancer, as it is for
the painter, to convince the audience
that such impressions are possible.
I saw Norda Mata’s third Sydney Con.
show. She chose to portray “Fragments
from Goethe’s ‘Faust’ ” and “Impressions
of India.” I venture to say that without
the printed programmes a good half of
her audience would have received no
impressions at all, and that half the re-
mainder would have been wrongly im-
pressed. As it was, three or four groups
of people near me who arrived late were
unable to decide whether the programme
had reached “Care” or “Guilt.” And
“Call of the Morning” in “Impressions
of India,” which was supposed to repre-
sent “women walking at dawn to the
spring for their morning bath,” might, to
two members of the .audience at -least,
much more easily have been taken for
the toiling of a chain gang.
I came away convinced ( a ) that the
audience was bored and there only
as a concession to the higher culchah ;
( b ) that if a local girl tried to do the
same sort of thing she would never get
away with it; (c) that “creative danc-
ing” would be ever so much more im-
pressive before a scenic background.
Still, some of the audience may have seen
India and “Faust” in the dancer’s
writhings.


for* <io°r
° nlY the*®"' °‘
ritv vet Peace
SPie '
vailS 'tw situated
lde n ßndgeP"h
\f an elevated
JV | posih 0 "
utanvgw.’'
8W1361.
Always
carry a
small tin in
pocket or
purse
HUDSON'S
"EUMENTHOL' m
JUJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Cora —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
While lay society seemed to be taking
a little siesta last week the Cathedral of
St. Andrew’s throbbed with life. At times
there was almost as much traffiq along the
neatly-gravelled walks which surround it
as in the George-street it fronts. Con-
gregations at the Bishop Broughton cen-
tenary services have been enormous ; that
at the official opening service was the
greatest the cathedral has ever housed.
The Governor-General and Lady Gowrie,
the Lieutenant-Governor and Lady Street
were present. The music was rich and
sonorous, the procession of the arch-
bishops, bishops and prelates memorable
for the rich colors of the robes, the
simple dignity of ceremonial.
The reception in the Town Hall struck
the right note. Here the church walked
arm-in-arm in the friendliest fashion with
the day’s work. Husbands and wives
dropped in straight from the evening’s
shopping, suitcase in hand. One girl
arrived with a pineapple in a bag ; others
came with their straps of library books.
Some wore tweed topcoats, others trail-
ing velvet or silk evening frocks. Parcels
and books were discreetly parked while
their owners went forward to shake
hands with the church dignitaries at the
foot of the platform.
Here indeed was the glossy dressing of
the night. Buckled shoes, purple coats
opening over the shiniest of purple
aprons, glittered in the light. His Grace
of Sydney wore a great star, Maoriland’s
archbishop a notable ring and a cross,
but the Primate of all Ireland was con-
tent with his purple and fine linen. In
tiers on the stage rose white-surpliced
figures. These were the choir, the various
parishes from which they came denoted
by brilliant sashes of different hues.
Canon Charlton, who was Thomas
a Becket in the pageant, talked with the
producer, Mrs. Bailey. Mrs. Talbot’s
frock was of black velvet and very long ;
so was her coat. Archbishop Mowll’s
wife wore black-and-silver velvet,
diagonally striped. Mrs. Micklem, who
came with her reverend doctor, was in
violet laces.
Sydney’s thoughts have been turned
to the heavens these past days. But
while the church undertakes to guide you
right past the singing stars the three aero-
plane exhibitions opened last week have
to admit that the sky’s their limit. At
David Jones’s the visitor is taken (pic-
torially) flying over the Empire. Here
flows the Jordan, here rise the minarets
and mosques of Cairo, there is the Nile,
there a flash of the Parthenon. Glimpses
of India and Africa and silver models of
’planes delight. Britain’s High Commis-
sioner, Sir Geoffrey Whiskard, opened this
show, while Priminster Lyons introduced
the one at the Wentworth. This is a
fascinating display. It has models of
great Atlantic fliers, the ones that help
the mail ’planes up the foothills of the
sky. Here is the slim, silver fly-by-night
that wings the London man of business,
after a day’s work, on to an early-morn-
ing conference in Rome. Electrics
flashed on its interior reveal china-blue
furnishings, sleeping berths and even a
bottle of champagne. Kitchens, pantries
and" air stewardesses, of course, go with
all. There are profiles of landing
grounds, and there’s a demonstration of
how pilots above banks of cloud or
behind banks of fog are guided from
Croydon airport. Crowds of the luxu-
rious-minded are to be met at both.
After all what’s a mere £244 passage
money?
Mollie Byrne will raise a coloratura
soprano, cultivated in the best London
and Continental atmospheres, at the
Forum Club on June 11. Mollie’s pro-
gramme is a wide one ; it includes works
by Arnold Bax and William Walton, as
well as Bach and Mozart, Strauss and
Hugo Wolf. The singer will also intro-
duce to Sydney some songs composed by
the late Vera Bedford. Photograph from
Lupton.
The Popes have said good-bye to Syd-
ney. From being captain-in-charge at
Garden Island, Captain C. J. Pope goes
on to an equally strenuous job at Flin-
ders Naval Base. The rooms and
grounds of Tresco, at Elizabeth Bay,
were crowded for the farewell party,
animation being added to the outdoors
by the arrival of many of the guests in
launches that, very spick and span, dashed
along from the grey warboats. The air
was heavy with rain that had fallen and
was thinking of falling again, but within
all was brightness and cheer. Mrs. Pope,
set about with red poinsettias and golden-
brown chrysanthemums, wore a frock of
soft green woollen and a hat to tone.
Lesley and Moira Pope handed things
round and generally helped the party
to go.
Black was repeated over and over
again in the women’s dresses. Admiral
Lane-Poole’s wife was neatly checked in
black-and-white, and Chief Justice Jor-
dan’s wife cheered her black frock with
a collar of stiffened white lace ; Lady
Poynter’s satin suit was the shade of a
deep brown chrysanthemum ; the Mayor-
ess was admirably fur-caped ; Mrs. J. L.
Hardie came with her brigadier, and was
smart in a brown outfit.
Eleven hundred dancers went to the
Flying Ball at the Trocadero, and it
looked as though every man brought his
own aeroplane. Made of flowers or sil-
vered o’er, the gay little models were
poised, seemingly ready for flight, on
every table. Scarlet sweet-peas and the
flame of poinsettia blazed in the decora-
tions, as did the two blues and red of the
Flying Corps. Mr. and Mrs. G. S. Hart-
man entertained the official party at a
table where the place-cards were small
black ’planes cut from cardboard. Silver-
beaded epaulettes glittered on Mrs. Hart-
man’s black velvet dress; Mayoress
Parkes had Grecian-like drapes of silver
on her black cloque.
The Snowden lady was very trig in her
black-and-white-striped chiffons, and
brought daughter Jean in beruffled blue
chiffons. Helen Hughes’s fair hair gained
distinction from the red poinsettia she
had pinned in it; Mrs. Claude Vautin’s
pale lilac chiffons were pleated in the
newest manner, and sashed in velvet of a
deeper tone. Pleats appeared again in the
train of Mrs. Harold Bott’s magnolia
satin frock. Renaissance coloring in pale
blue and pale lilac was worn by Mrs.
Jensen-Scott, of Melbourne, who was
with Mrs. Maurice Gulson. Mary
Maguire was at this party; so was Mrs.
Ulm. A fashion that gained in favor was
the wearing of dashing paper forage caps
in the A.F.C.’s two blues and red.
A pleasant surprise for Coadjutor-
Bishop Pilcher was the present his friends
made him to celebrate his new dignity.
The bishop’s home is at Bellevue Hill,
so that meant haying a room at Cathe-
dral House at which he could be quickly
consulted or called upon. A group of
his intimates decorated and furnished the
room, and then handed him the key. The
bishop has now one of the best-furnished
study-offices in the building.
The P.E.N. Club is all excitement, for
secretary Ruth Bedford is to go as dele-
gate to the P.E.N. Club conference, to be
held towards the end of September at
Buenos Ayres. The Argentine Gov-
ernment is paying travelling expenses;
however, to get to South America from
Sydney, is not so easy a matter. First
you have to take a boat that goes by
Panama, and then maybe wait quite a
spell for a connection. There’s a good
aerial service part of the way, but Ruth
would rather keep her foot on the wave
or the earth. The conference will take
10 days. Lady Hosie, by the way, is to
be the guest of the P.E.N.-ners at their
next dinner on the tenth.
Amy and Frances Rowntree are citi-
zens of whom Tasmania can be proud.
These two ladies have devoted their Jives
to the development of child education,
and have been important factors not only
in their own island home but in N. S.
Wales and in South Australia. Amy
Rowntree, now inspector of infants’
schools in Tasmania, was trained, after
her Hobart Kindergarten work, under
Miss M. M. Simpson, at that time head
of Blackfriars’ Infant Demonstration
School. For a while, at the invitation of
its Government, Frances Rowntree took
her talents to S.A. Now she is lecturer
at the Teachers’ College, Hobart. The
two, on a visit to Sydney, have been
entertained at many parties, one a great
tea-drinking at the Trocadero instigated
by Miss R. W. Stevens, principal of the
Blackfriars’ Infant Demonstration School.
Evaline White is one of the first girls
from Sydney to go to London with a
scholarship for the spoken word tucked
under her arm. The scholarship comes
from the Grace Stafford school, where
Evaline has been a student for some
years. She has passed all Trinity Col-
lege, London, exams, in elocution, with
honors, and has a natural aptitude for
verse-speaking and the Greek drama.
Albert Collins was an energetic M'C.
at the dance to benefit the crippled chil-
dren’s fund ; it was arranged by eight
city business firms. Advertising must
have been the backbone of the dance, for
lots of names prominent in that industry
occurred with a frequency that had its
only rival in oft-repeated spotlight
dances. These were a good chance to
allow nice girls to carry off pairs of silk
stockings. If the boys carried off nothing
else they carried the girls off home in
their cars later on. Features of the night
were an eccentric dance and the singing
of a song of many verses, more or less
laudatory of the firms gathered together.
Mrs. Norman Catts’s frock of moon-
stone-blue chiffons was Grecian in its
shoulder drapes* and girdle, which was
lined with amethyst. Kathleen Collins,
one of the night’s belles, trailed black
chiffons ; young sister Joan was in deep-
blue moire. The Hastings Deering couple
were there ; he’s the man who is present-
ing Henry Ford with a book of indus-
tries in a Wal Taylor binding richly
tooled with his own initials and bound in
champagne leather. John Banks brought
his wife, who lent black lace and tulle
an added grace ; and Milton Chick had
a busy night helping to judge competi-
tions.
Mary Gilmore has given her head to
the National Gallery. This doesn’t mean
that she goes about like the ghost in
the haunted Elizabethan manor with a
head tucked under the arm ready to
present to all-comers —a portrait head of
the poetess, done by Rayner Hoff in
bronze, has been donated to the Gallery
in memory of D. H. Souter. Mary’s is
the first Australian woman writer’s head
to find residence in the State’s art
treasury.
The Don Symingtons went off north
again in the Macdhui last week after a
disappointing holiday in Sydney. Nearly
the whole of Mr. Symington’s leave has
been spent in hospital. Mrs. Symington,
better known here as Margot Cowan,
managed, however, to work in some
bright farewells ; one was a bridge after-
noon of size given by Mrs. Clement
Chapman at the Astor.
The Arts Club in Pitt-street has housed
many parties to the glory of the great in
art, music and letters. It has turned itself
into a broadcasting studio, and from iis
ballroom decanted opera to the ear of
Australia. Last week, with something
like a sigh, members foregathered for
their last party on the old site. The club
is to be entirely remodelled, and for two
years or more its address will be Loftus-
street, where the new rooms will be
ready for use next month.
Dressing for the farewell was smart,
befurred and mostly black. Lady
Whiskard, wife of Britain’s High Com-
missioner, wore a black suit, and over the
brim of her black hat ostrich-feather
fronds drooped. Mrs. Crawford Robert-
son and the wife of air-knight Keith
Smith were wrapped in silver fox, and
both wore small hats—the Smith laoy’s
topped with jaunty pompoms, Mrs. Craw-
ford Robertson’s softened with an eye
veil. The wife of Japan’s Consul-General
Murai, Mrs. J. J. Rouse, Mrs. Mark Foy
and Mrs. E. Wunderlich were some who
brightened black frocks with gay posies.
And Gladys Moncrieff sang like an angel.
The Sydney . Lyceum Club welcomed
home two of its members, Mrs. Gordon
Donkin and Mrs. Raven, the other day
at a luncheon in their honor. Both re-
cently returned wanderers represented the
Harbor Town coterie at the Lyceum
Clubs’ conference in Berlin last Sep-
tember. They received the warmest hos-
pitality in the German capital, were es-
corted (in cars placed officially at their
disposal) by Storm Troopers (which
meant that other traffic had to give way
to them), and did their; sightseeing in a
minimum of time. Mr. and Mrs. Gordon
Donkin had a big caravan tour in
northern Europe and showed their film
“Australia” in many towns and villages
(specially in England) to loud applause.
Mrs. Muscio was in the chair at the
Lyceum gala party.
The Catholic L.T.A. brought racquet
and ball to the Empress ballroom mid-
way through last week. This was the
annual celebration, and netted over 300
dancers. The gold of chrysanthemum,
the orange of Iceland poppies decked
the official table, at which the presiden-
tial J. Dorahys entertained. Their guests
included representatives from the hard-
court associations of Illawarra, Black-
town, Manly, Hornsby, Parramatta and
places in between. Mrs. John Dorahy’s
crepe frock was of hyacinth blue threaded
with silver; secretary Mollie Carr, who
arranged one of the largest parties, wore
white satin cut on tailored lines. Birth-
days seemed to be fashionable, and iced
and decorated cakes arose before some
of the milestone-passers. On one table
two silver-stringed flower-racquets were a
pictorial centrepiece.
The next tenants to take possession of
Tresco will be the Captain George
Arthur Scott couple. Early in June the
house that has been home to so many
sailors’ families will open its doors to
the arrivals from overseas. Captain Scot:
is being lent to the Commonwealth
Government. Down to the end of
December he was Deputy-Director of
Naval Intelligence, prior to which he
served his first commission as a captain
in the Mediterranean, where he com-
manded the Ceres. He has a D.S.C.,
gained for service in the monitor Severn.
Since his Severn days (the destruction
of the Konigsberg in the Rufiji River
was one incident of its career), he has
held a succession of destroyer com-
mands.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WATSON.—Anyone knowing the whereabouts
of CECIL TYRONE WATSON, who was last
heard of in South Gippsland in 1896, or, if
dead, of his next-of-kin, is requested to com-
municate with LEACH AND THOMSON,
Solicitors, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
V fiort Story
'Writing
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I*C.S. School o£ Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
Melbourne
Chatter
Frills and furbelows, tulle frocks,
fussy little capes edged with fur and
long cloaks swaying over full skirts —
such is the wardrobe of “Waltzes of
Vienna.” The men’s apparel is subjected
to an invasion of military braid, flowered
waistcoats, chou bows and lace ruffles.
Robert Coote, whose part of a Russian
emissary is regrettably small, covers his
chest with imposing armor so shiny that
his confreres use it as a mirror. The
ballet, having put away its tapping shoes,
is once more on its toes, its shapely legs
no longer wearing stage-white and a few
sequins, but silk stockings and fluffy
ballerina skirts. As Therese, Marie
Bremner is all in the picture with ring-
lets, mittens and prim Victorianisms.
Strella Wilson has lots of feathers to fly
with, allegorical ones in the golden gown
of Countess Olga Baranskaja, a flowing
cloak of ink-blue velvet, jewels and
ermine, no less aristocratic for being syn-
thetic, and a few real plumes waving on
the top of her head.
Noticed in the crowd of first-nighters
was Freda Connolly in a color she does
not usually wear, deep hibiscus-red for
a long cloak and flowers in her hair.
The charm of greying hair above a white
ermine cape was emphasised by one of
our distinctive matrons, Mrs. Gordon
Coulter. Mrs. L. Davis was also fur-
caped, and Mrs. Jean Barry wore a long
coat of summer ermine. Mrs. Ron Wit-
nam and Mrs. Tom Tyrer also took
precautions with furs against the ele-
ments which threatened, but didn’t
materialise into a storm. Mrs. David
Elder wore a full-length black coat over
her wine-red gown, and Mrs. W. J. Rice,
also in black velvet, cheered her shoulder
with a spray of lilac. Marie Bremner’s
father and brother were discerned in the
circle, and Lillian Pertka’s platinum
blonde head, slinky gown of black satin
and carmine toes peeping from jewelled
sandals were noticed making their way
towards the stalls.
The Kelvin Hall housed Terence
Crisp’s production of Four Provocative
Plays. In “His Sainted Grandmother”
Lord Dunsany has written a fantasy
which requires elaborate lighting and
effects. Brenda Newbold was a very
materialistic spirit, though she acted and
spoke pleasantly. Very true to life was
“Security,” Freda Pietersen’s picture of
office routine —the elderly typist, capable
and conscientious, but set in her ways ;
the younger, prettier face ; the clerk who
eventually will have “filing cabinets for
children,” and the lad who is given a
job because he’s a well-known athlete.
Lila Pirani extracted both comedy and
pathos from her Miss Mullett. Lesley
O’Toole was convincing as the younger
typist, who is not all frivol, for she makes
the break and leaves the security of a
job to accompany the young man of
her choice.
“Happy Death, Ltd.,” is a character
study of the future wherein various indi-
viduals arrange with the company which
exploits a new lethal gas for a “painless
passing.” According to fees paid they
can order an accompanying programme
of choirs, soft lights, recitative inter-
ludes or advanced ritual. Molly Hede
was excellent as the official-in-charge,
who is most matter-of-fact over death (in
the abstract only, for it turns out that
no customers have had the pluck to enter
the gilded doorway. She is firmly per-
suasive about distributing Happy Death
advertising matter and coy when she
plays up to Pettigrew (Terence Crisp),
the ancient who seeks entertainment by
watching would-be suicides’ reactions.
Among other satisfying studies were
Frederick McMahon’s Bishop and Henry
Allen as the stolid Bates, whom one sus-
pects of being good raw material for
Communism. In Schnitzler’s “A Christ-
mas Present,” Betty Tait and Jack Wilt-
shire give smooth interpretations of
Anatol, who so quickly forgets, and
Gabrielle, a modern young woman who
thinks she is cynical, but has womanly
instincts mixed with self-assurance.
The Secretary of Defence has had his
first flight since 1916, when he went up
in the “box kite” piloted by the lad
who is now Wing-Commander Wackett.
Mr. Shepherd’s recent aerial adventure
was in the cockpit of the Bungana. Mrs.
Shepherd, who also shared in the cour-
tesy joy-ride, found her first sensation
of air travel most comfortable and less
bumpy than driving in her own car. If
the flight had been longer she might
have needed her book or her knitting,
for travelling in a big ’plane impressed
her as being so “safe” that there are few
thrills left. From the air the trams in
St. Kilda-road looked like green, cater-
pillars, and her own home in South
Yarra a speck among postage-stamp
gardens.
Every dancer at the Big Business Ball
wore a lei of paper flowers round neck
or wrist, colored accessories sold instead
of balloons. A snowstorm at midnight
and a streamer battle round about hot-
soup time added to the glamor of the
Palais lights, tall bamboos and; bowls of
chrysanthemums. Harold Latham’s lady,
who is president of the Children’s Hospi-
tal, was guest of honor in the region of
the official board, all pale green as a
contrast to the rest of the gold-clad
supper tables. President of the ball com-
mittee Mrs. J. A. O’Keefe wore lame
in a shade of deep Iceland-poppy. Mrs.
H. Barrett, in a cloak of silver, with a
fitch collar fitting snugly to the throat,
and Mrs. H. B. Higgins, in black, shared
the same vantage spot. Mrs. Leslie
Powell, wearing black velvet and a white
velvet cape, could be found in the
vicinity of the raffle tickets materialised
—an ornamental two-storeyed cake.
Anne of Bohemia was a young woman
of character whose intelligence, tact and
good judgment were a vital influence
upon her husband, Richard 11. Here is
Sybil Porter, pensive as Anne, which
part she will play in Gregan McMahon’s
four-night season of “Richard of Bor-
deaux,” commencing on June 6. It will
be Miss Porter’s first dramatic role,
for most of her experience has been
gathered in music and dancing shows.
She came originally from Sydney, and is
an old girl of Ascham. An Athol Shmith
photo.
Ken Tuckfield is to be the tempestu-
ous vacillating Richard, who loses his
last shred of stability when his Anne falls
a victim to plague. Mr. Tuckfield has
been of two minds about his hair. Con-
scientiously he started to grow it long,
but the remarks of his friends were too
high a price to pay for atmosphere. It
is still in a longish brushback, and he
has retained his sideboards, but a wig
will have to provide the necessary swoop
on the nape of the neck.
Talk of Peter the Great and Ivan the
Terrible was heard at the International
Club’s Russian party. The three hos-
tesses, Madame Mortill, Madame Hese-
leva and Madame Wassolieff, explained
that their costumes were similar to those
worn when Ivan was spilling blood
wholesale. Nicholas Kamper, in green
tunic, high boots and baggy breeches,
explained that it wasn’t until Peter the
Great introduced, Western fashions that
Russians realised that Paris styles were
worthy of imitation.
The Russian womenfolk were all in
national costume. Some wore dresses
cut with full skirts and slim corsages
over voluminous-sleeved embroidered
blouses; others were in handwoven
woollen skirts with decorative head-
dresses of long ribbon streamers attached
to flower wreaths. Under the baton of
the Orthodox Church’s choirmaster they
sang hymns and songs of their native
land, and with smiles and waving hand-
kerchiefs danced a folk measure to a
rhythmic country tune. Russian tea was
served with cakes and pastries, some
meat inside and sugar outside. There
was also hvorost, a kind of bread cooked
in lard. Among members present were
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs. George
Dixon (in black velvet and pearls), Ella
Payne (with a twist of silver in her hair),
Phyllis Balfour and Mrs. M. J. Canny.
Mrs. M. R, McMillan wore a present
from Mrs. Heseleva, red roses which only
a bee would have recognised as mas-
queraders. Of wooden shavings, they
were dyed, perfumed and treated to look
wet and dewy.
Girls who on leaving school are pre-
pared to study for degrees no longer
embark on arts or science as a matter
of course. They have invaded medicine
and law, and during the last few years
have come to realise the scope of archi-
tecture, commerce and agriculture. Here
is a Broothorn photo, of Yvonne Aitken,
who at the last commencement became
a Bachelor of Agricultural Science. To
add to the success of her course, she
won a scholarship for Agricultural
Science and half shares in two more
prizes, the Dixon Scholarship for Agri-
cultural Engineering and Surveying and
the Wrixon Exhibition for Agriculture,
Part 111. Miss Aitken, who is the elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. David Aitken,
is at present engaged in research work
at the University agricultural school.
Eileen Joyce’s unusual platform
manner had the audience tricked at her
first concert in the house-full Assembly
Hall. During the first half of the pro-
gramme she hadn’t even the ghost of a
smile. It wasn’t until after the Brahms
Intermezzo *that the applause melted the
firm set of her mouth and chin. She
obviously enjoyed herself chasing gnomes
and spirits in Liszt’s “Gnomenreigen,”
after the performance of which the ten-
sion relaxed considerably; the pianist
looked far more pleased with life gener-
ally and her listeners breathed sighs of
relief to discover that she had dimples.
This young musician gives the impres-
sion of knowing her own mind and get-
ting what she wants, in spite of every-
thing. She played “The King”—first
verse only—with determination, and not
a single frill or suggestion of shading.
The hall was not dimly lighted but quite
dark, the only lights being a large electric
lamp over the piano.
Sitting unobtrusively in the stalls was
Lady Huntingfield. Her visit was un-
official, and she and Sibyl Irving booked
the best seats that offered without using
the magic words of Government House
to secure front rows or cane chairs.
Marie Bremner’s white sari was notice-
able until, feeling cold, she removed it to
make room for a black evening wrap.
Next to her was Marie Anne Conan,
wearing a mop of auburn curls. John
Longstaff was present—the piano is his
favorite instrument. Pauline Knowles,
swathed in black velvet, was escorted by
Ted Mulvany. Justice McTiernan, Prof,
and Mrs. Ernest Scott, Mrs. Alfred
Taylor, Mrs. Gordon McLean and Mr.
and Mrs. Randolph Himmer were among
others in the audience.
There was a gathering of the clans at
the marriage of Alison McArthur and
Tony Blair. Mr. Blair is an Englishman,
living in Calcutta, who arrived in Aus-
tralia a fortnight before the wedding date,
knowing no one but his fiancee. The
McArthur family has shoots throughout
Victoria, and many friends and relatives
came from S.A. for the ceremony. It
was a white-and-gold wedding ; flowers
in the church and at the reception and
dresses of the leading ladies were all
played in the same color keys, and even the
’groom’s presents to the attendants, Mrs.
Trevor Oldham and Joan Mclntosh, were
gold cigarette-cases.
During the aftermath celebrations at
Grosvenor the ’groom was introduced to
so many strangers that he found him-
self greeting like long-lost friends folk
whom he had met once or twice before.
His popularity was instantaneous, and
his speech was excellent —just the right
peppering of good sense and humor.
Among other speech-makers were Dr.
G. A. Hagenauer, the bride’s father, Dr.
Norman McArthur, and her brother
Peter. There was a cocktail bar under
the gum-trees, and within doors a band
produced such infectious rhythm that the
carpet was rolled up for dancing at the
hour when everybody had forgotten that
such a thing as dinner had ever been
invented. The next day bride and
’groom departed for England ; they are
to have a holiday in at least London and
Surrey before going out to live in India.
Mrs. Blair should be a very popular
member of outposts-of-Empire society.
She is proficient at tennis and golf, and
wears sports clothes as to the manner
born.
With commendable fortitude the
bride’s grandmother, Mrs. James Russell,
played her part in the marriage of Denise
Russell and George Sangster. Mrs.
Russell was seriously ill in the Mercy
Hospital, and by her own request an
operation was postponed until several
days after the wedding. In between the
ceremony at Christ Church, South Yarra,
and the reception given by the bride’s
mother, Mrs. George Russell, at No. 9,
the newly-married pair visited the patient,
who emphasised her congratulations by
asking her young visitors to open a bottle
of champagne which she had ordered
specially for them.
Half the Western District was at the
wedding, and crowds of people came
from S.A., the ’groom’s home State. The
marriage garment was of gardenia-white
satin, over which fell a very old veil of
Brussels lace mounted on tulle and
attached to a high stiffened halo. An
experimental abetting of nature was the
original treatment of the bridal bouquet,
from which the stamens of arum-lilies
were removed ; in their stead, sprigs of
lily-of-the-valley were inserted into the
white throat of each flower. Two chil-
dren, Margaret Drake —in white chiffon
with frills round her toes and a wreath
and a wristlet of white blossom—and
Michael Irvine —in a lavender velvet suit
—preceded the bride, who was escorted
to the altar by her brother. June Russell,
Pat Campbell, Betty Ramsay and Marion
Kettlewell wore chiffon gowns in pale
and deeper shades of orchid. Round
their heads were chaplets of lilac, and on
their arms rested shower bouquets from
which fell trails of creeper, covered with
bell-shaped cobea flowers. The home of
the newly-wedded pair is to be in Glenelg
(S.A.).
Two couples whose interests are up in
the clouds as well as on the earth leave
for New Guinea next week by the Nep-
tuna. They are Mr. and Mrs. lan Grab-
owsky and Captain and Mrs. Bunny
Hammond. Mr. Grabowsky (he manages
Guinea Airways) and his wife have a
home at Lae, but they do so much travel-
ling between Australia and New Guinea
ports that they are not often in their
own domicile —three weeks was the dura-
tion of their last “settling in.” The house
boys have asked Mrs. Grabowsky to
bring them back presents of tennis
racquets, and one dusky woollyhead sug-
gested that he would also like a croco-
dile-skin purse “just like missie’s.”
Mr. and Mrs. Hammond see the
beauties of tropical sunrise every morn-
ing when they breakfast together on the
verandah of their bungalow on the edge
of the aerodrome at Wau. “Bunny,” a
very cheery soul and a well-known pilot
throughout the Territory, has been
known on his arrival back from schedule
flights to invite the whole ’planeful of
passengers to tea at his bungalow. Mrs.
Hammond is quite equal to such occa-
sions, and makes all visitors, friends and
strangers, very welcome.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 787 of 1936.
BETWEEN GLADYS PENELOPE BINNS
Petitioner
And JOSEPH ERNEST BINNS Respon-
dent.
TO JOSEPH ERNEST BINNS late of Broken
run.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
PENELOPE BINNS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of May,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R, W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No, 649 of 1936.
BETWEEN HILDA IVA ALLWOOD Peti-
tioner
And FREDERICK JOHN ALLWOOD
Respondent.
TO FREDERICK JOHN ALLWOOD late of
Broken Hill.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA IVA
ALLWOOD has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-fifth
day of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of May,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The League of Nations and the
Rule of Law 1918-1935.
By SIR ALFRED ZIMMERN. 12/6.
“One of the most interesting books yet pub-
lished on the work of the League It is
a striking narrative, full of ideas and apt
phrases, and altogether a neat and plausible
picture of the general sweep of events.”
—“Time and Tide.”
CHARLES MORGAN’S NEW NOVEL
SPARKENBROKE.
[Colonial Edition
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
BONES OF CONTENTION.
BY FRANK O’CONNOR. Author of
“Guest's of the Nation.”
(Recommended by the Book Society)
“A book so good that half a dozen more like
it will put the author among the immortals.”
—Sean O’Paoldin, “Spectator.”
THE DOUBLE QUEST.
By R. J. CRUIKSHANK.
“Mr. R. J. Cruikshank’s clever and sug-
gestive study of two civilisations... .The book
is a brilliant affair whose verbal fireworks,
sometimes rather tiring to the mind’s eye,
nevertheless gives plenty of illumination of a
soberer sort, in which the two Anglo-Saxon
nations can recognise themselves, and each
other, without being unduly appalled.”
— L. P. Hartley, “The Observer.”
THE ROAD AND THE
WOOD.
By JOHN OWEN. Author of “Many
Captives,” etc.
The author places his knowledge and love
of Suffolk and its people at the service of a
profound and moving story.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers,
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
V
*
i
a
4
m
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD,
247 George St., 59 William St
Sydney. Melbourne.
M
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Eight hundred Press Ball tickets were
sold, and more than 800 turned up at
Government House ballroom. Confer-
ence delegates, headed by A. C. Holtz and
Miss Olga Holtz (to whom two debs,
were presented), were received by dance-
committee chairman C. Longmore. A
leaping Mercury, all aglow with gold,
heralded the approach of the fancy sets.
In the prize-winning “Radio” set the girls
wore near-Roman costumes of short
white satin frocks, flowing capes, stiff,
wide collars and silver station signs on
their heads; their partners substituted
shorts for skirts. The “War News” set
was a neatly-contrived combination of
representative nations, war implements
and news-carriers.
Frocking was gay. Miss Holtz ran a
wide kilting round the hem and arms
of her Alice-blue silks; Mrs. I. Birt-
whistle’s bottle-green satins were lined
with silver; shimmering roses were
appliqued on the skirt of Toddles
Dunn’s deep-cream nets, which fluffed
over pink-cwm-silver taffeta; Billie
Salter’s jade-and-gold hand-painted satins
were cut Chinese-wise with mandarin
collar and button fastenings ; and Mrs.
C. P. Smith pinned silver roses on her
blackberry triple ninon.
Stirrup-cups of tea were poured at the
Belmont Hotel for the Hunt Club’s open-
ing meet. The president (Lord Mayor
Poynton) stood next Mabel Leather,
whose stone-colored riding breeks
emerged from a navy coat; and Mrs.
A. E. Joyner’s brown velour hat bobbed
beside the master’s pink furbishings.
Most horsewomen were in navy and
white, but Mrs. V. Secombe, Margaret
Paton, Edna Smiley and Sheila Hayes
rode in warm fawn-to-browns.
Press delegates’ womenfolk were feted
at the Karrakatta Club with a dinner
party, presided over by Mrs. C. P. Smith,
whose air-force blue lace was adorned
with a spray of gold roses. Around the
room poinsettias reared their splendid
petals from immense jars, roses mingled
with the green mats, candles and lamps
on the dining tables, shoulder sprays lay
beside each plate and place-cards and
menus were painted with wildflowers.
The postprandial cinema show was fol-
lowed by a reunion with the men at
Newspaper House.
A lovely spray of petunia-velvet
flowers was fixed on Miss Octavia Grave’s
black silver-stripe cloque when she pre-
sided over the Loreto ex-students’ dance
at Anzac House. Vice-pres. Mrs. E. le B.
Henderson combined black taffeta and
lace ; vertical bands of shirring ran down
Mollie Dunphy’s peach-pink taffetas ; and
Pat Hadfield’s off-white georgettes were
cellophane-striped.
Michael Head, the Royal Academy of
Music examiner, met fellow-enthusiasts
more than half-way at the Royal Schools’
Music Club reception in his honor.
After a brief response to president Mrs.
C. L. Mason’s speech of welcome he gave
a number of solos and songs at the piano,
some from his own pen. Before the big
moment there were songs from Mrs.
Groom and Doris Horrigan, two-piano
work by Trixie Sheppard and June
Epstein, and Betty Gravenall was a lone
performer at the keyboard.
Gretchen Hardey, who leaves soon for
Melbourne and matrimony, was given a
farewell party by her mother, Mrs. R. W.
Hardey. Some 70 guests gathered in the
brown lounge of the Adelphi, where
gladioli stood sentinel over low bowls of
carnations. Hostess wrapped a squirrel
coat over her myrtle-green crepe
satin ; bride-elect topped black-and-white
striped cloque with a natural fox fur.
The Catholic Lawn Tennis Association
dance was a cheery affair held at the
Embassy. Iris Brophy carried out secre-
tarial duties in caped and kilted powder-
blue crepes, and Nell Cusack assisted in
old-world pastel-blue taffeta.
The Esplanade Hotel reverberated with
chatter and the rattle of teacups when
Mrs. F, G. Dempster and Mrs. J. R. W.
Gardam entertained 150 friends. Mrs.
Dempster’s cape-sleeved black ensemble
was worn with an ostrich-feathered small
black hat. Mrs. Gardam’s symphony in
brown was relieved with a spray of sunset
roses.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. F. Villeneuve Smith and his daugh-
ter Lindley entertained about 80 guests
at a cocktail party at the South Austra-
lian. The room was beautifully deco-
rated with dahlias and roses. Among
the guests were the Moulden lady. Judge
Drake-Brockman and Mr, Basil Murphy.
The Moulden lady left Parafield next
day in a specially-chartered ’plane on a
flight round Australia, visiting properties
in which she is interested. She intends
to be away three weeks. She is accom-
panied by R. J. Oswald and Sister Eileen
Malynn, of Melbourne.
Winifred and Priscilla Stevenson have
returned to Gilberton after a motor tour
that lasted 12 months. Luggage packed
on the back of their car, they made 200
miles a day their limit; they picnicked
by day and stayed at hotels by night.
And they travelled without accident.
Betty Barwell is back in Adelaide after
eight years. She is the youngest daughter
of the Henry Barwells, and accom-
panied them to England when the ex-
Premier was made Agent-General. She is
now sports mistress at St. Catherine’s
School in Melbourne.
The ’Varsity tennis girls from Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane were billeted
with Adelaide ’Varsity players. After the
finals there was a dinner at the South
Australia, and on Sunday came a drive
to the hills, with afternoon-tea at the
Belair home of Miss Burford.
Tennis-girl Roma, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Wadey, of Medindie, is
engaged to Dr. Geoffrey Wien-Smith, of
Clare.
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Jolly gave a dance
at their home. North Adelaide, to cele-
brate the coming-of-age of their daughter
Margaret. Decorations were vine leaves
varnished red and ferns painted with
silver. The ballroom was hung with
multicolored balloons in cellophane and
tied with red ribbon. The hostess was
smartly gowned in a blue that suited her
coloring, and Margaret chose white
matelasse with diamente on the bodice.
At the Aero Club’s Ball at the Palais
Royal the Lord Mayor (J. R. Cain) was
received by H. M. Plumridge. Dr. and
Mrs. S. R. Burston brought a party. Mrs.
Burston wore a white crepe frock cut on
princess lines. Mrs. Sidney Downer’s
pale-green figured matelasse toilette was
moulded to the figure, and she wore a
coronet of silver leaves. Mrs. Arnold
Moulden was in a pale delphinium-blue
chiffon. Mrs. Barton Forster chose a
cream crepe toilette, with cape effect.
Mrs. J. L. Price, of Highgate, was
hostess at a deb. dance for her daughter
Joan at the Piccadilly, The guests were
received in the lounge, which was beauti-
fully decorated in autumn tints. Mrs.
Price was in gold georgette, relieved with
gold; Joan in white-spotted net over
taffeta, the skirt full with pleated frills
and the bodice made with off-shoulder
effect.
Knight Wallace Bruce has returned
from England, and there was a family
party at Dutton-terrace, Medindie. Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Fowler {she was Betty
Bruce) arrived from Melbourne to join
in the welcome, and Mr. and Mrs. W. M.
Gillard came to town from Clare. Helen
Bruce and brother Ken are still in
London.
The Movie Ball at the Palais Royal
proved a huge success. Goodwill and
champagne flowed. Norman Mcßride
staged the star turn when the elephant
from the circus walked on to the ball-
room floor. Even after a convivial night
you seldom see anything as large as that.
The Lord Mayor and the Lady Mayoress
were present, Mrs. Dunstan gowned in
black chiffon velvet and a squirrel fur
coat. Seven Waterman brothers were
there; all are in the picture business.
TASMANIA.
The T.R.C. had a wonderful day for
its meeting at Elwick, and the lawns and
flower-beds showed little signs of
drought. The A. J. Millers received
guests for tea in the committee-room.
Mrs. Miller wore a smart black ensemble
with a beige collar and black hat. Mrs.
Thos. Lyons was there with Mrs. John
Clarke (Burma), and Mrs. Tom Giblin
had her mother, Mrs. Rymill (Adelaide),
with her. Mrs. Spencer Parsons was in
black and white.
The Leap Year Ball, one of the 250
functions held throughout the Common-
wealth to help sick soldiers, materialised
at the City Hall very successfully. Be-
tween 700 and 800 dancers took the
floor, and the gallery was crowded with
onlookers. Mrs. G. Wishart-Smith and
Mrs. D. McLaren were secretaries.
The J. B. Whites (he is manager of
Paton and Baldwins, Launceston), with
their family, are off in the Narkunda
for a trip to England and Scotland.
Prof. K. O. Shatwell and Betty
Hogarth, daughter of R. Hogarth Cressy,
were quietly married at Christ College
chapel. The bride wore a going-away
turnout of heavy navy-blue silk, with
cape and hat to match. An informal
little wedding tea was afterwards held
at Professor McAulay’s, where he and
Mrs. McAulay sped the parting guests
to Melbourne.
Commem. Week wound up with a
dance in the Uni. Library which was
rather an example of three into two won’t
go ; dancing space was more than filled.
The social committee —Ruth Clemes, J.
Bushby, P. Wood and R. Kennedy—did
their job with credit.
Commen, Day passed off decorously.
Mock Commem. nowadays is the outlet
for the animal spirits of students; it
has become vulgar without being
funny. His Excellency and Lady Clark
were present at the main show in the
Town Hall, when the Chancellor, W. J. T.
Stops, presented 24 degrees.
The Junior Repertory Society gave a
show at the Town Hall, staging four
one-act plays. The best was “The Illu-
sionist,” by Phillip Johnson; in this
Junee Cornell and Freda Elliott were out-
standing. The 86 Club spread food and
drink at the clubrooms afterwards.
Jack Smith, son of the Norman Smiths,
of Launceston, having won the N.S.W.
Travelling Art Scholarship, is going to
England in the Barrabool with his wife
and youngster. They looked in on the
home folks in Launceston for a short
time before leaving.
The Child Welfare Association ran a
big bridge drive at the Town Hall as a
final feature of Baby Day appeal. Three
rooms were used for tables, and supper
was served in the committee-room.
Mollie, elder daughter of the Rev. and
Mrs. W. G. Greenwood, St. John’s Rec-
tory, and Randolph Waldron, also of
Launceston, announce their engagement.


FULL • STOP TO
RHEUMATISM
Many Ageing Ills GO as Harrison’s
Pills Cleanse and Tone Kidneys
Back, Joint, Leg and Muscle Pains STOP—Acid
Irritation; Scalding, Smarting Urinary Troubles;
Bladder Weakness—all cease when Harrison’s Pills
end the cause. Acids, Poisons, Germs, Wastes—
these kill energy, sap vitality—END YOUTH! The
nightly unrest through Weak Bladder, Nerviness,
Dizziness, Rings under the Eyes, Headaches—all go
?is Harrison’s Pills, unrivalled remedy of a London
Doctor, put disordered conditions right. Relief comes
at once —restoration to real health follows on the
strengthening of the vital organs. See for yourself—
get a package of genuine Harrison’s Pills (2/-, 3/
or 5/-) from the Chemist. If not amazed and
delighted with benefits of very first bottle—money back.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
CES LIKE THIS
FIT A MAZDA
IF you use a Mazda lamp
to illuminate the name or
number of your house, your
friends would not have to
explore half the neighbour-
hood to find you!
è
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Motor-boat Sinks
“Zedo”: Tokio advices place the
amount earned by Japanese luggers in the
Arafura Sea and off the north of Aus-
tralia last season at £300,000 roughly.
At Osaka the firm of Tange and Co. is
building eight mother-ship sampans
[about 200 tons, it is said). Eleven pearl-
ing boats were completed for another
interest, and several more for some
others. Dutch and Philippine Govern-
ments have seized and locked up boats
and crews fishing in territorial waters.
Canberra will hang out flags when Park-
hill catches a poacher.
The chief complaint of Australian
shelters is that visiting sampans are trans-
planting chicken shell to the warm waters
of the Japanese mandated islands —
which may mean that in a few years there
will be no shell beds near the Australian
and New Guinea coasts. Of course, the
Commonwealth Government, with all the
sound and fury attendant on the birth of
a mountain, has produced a small motor-
boat armed with an obsolescent Lewis
gun to deal with those who transgress
Australian law. The vessel has been
pictured in the daily press, advertised on
the screen and boomed at Canberra as if
it were another H.M.A.S. Australia. It had
barely arrived at Darwin, and the Com-
monwealth had scarcely digested the
news that it was acting as an adjunct to
the air-mail service, when it sank. The
automatic bailing device began to pump
inwards instead of outwards, so that the
engines will have to be taken out for
complete overhaul. A local launch towed
the Terror of the Seas and its floating
crew ashore.
“Nagheer”: A Melbourne friend, re-
turning from his first trip through Torres
Strait, has been enthusing about Thurs-
day Island. “It will do me!” he an-
nounced, “Sorry I didn’t stay there in-
stead of going on and being bitten by
Armenians who run pubs in Java and
Singapore. There’s nothing better to see
when you get to those places, you can’t
get Australian food, you might catch
smallpox or cholera from the natives,
they rook you at every turn for ex-
change and you don’t know a damn’
word of their beastly languages. Put up a
modern hotel at Thursday Island, form
a golf links, get a few old cars to run
elderly visitors about and some fishing
launches, and there would be a fortune
in it from winter visitors.” All of which
I silently endorsed from a knowledge of
45 years. Any would-be pioneer can
have a good time there now, together
with the sort of fishing Zane Grey writes,
home about.
* * * *
The Darwin Chinese are rejoicing at
the appointment of Charlie Que Fong
Lee to the Customs Department at Can-
berra. Charlie was born and educated
at Darwin, won a scholarship and passed
through the Brisbane Uni., taking his
B.A. with high honors. A noted Rugby
Union footballer, he played for his uni.
and the State. He was one of the 17 uni.
graduates recently appointed to the
Federal public service.
* * * *
“Mataranka”; The decline of the poor
old camel in N. Australia has been
steady. It began when bulls and cows
ceased to travel in the same team, thus
robbing overlanding of much of its ad-
venturousness. It continued when the
motor-lorry began to carry freight over
the Central sands. And it reached finality
the other day when a regulation was
gazetted laying a £lO penalty on any-
body “permitting, suffering or allowing a
camel to be on any commonage.” You
can ask for permission for any animal
“not being a camel” to be there —a water
buffalo or a fox or a zebra. But you
waste your breath pleading for the oont
—the Law won’t allow a kindly official
to shout him a feed of grass.
* * * *
“East Point”: Hollywood and novel-
ists in search of attractive names
should read the Darwin “Government
Gazette.” Even Cecil de Mille could not
beat some of the monikers of those who
recently were declared “not deemed to
be half-castes.” They included Pon-
ciano Cubillo, Valentine Bynoe McGin-
ness, Baden Bloomfield, Roy Plenty
Dubois and Milton Liddle.
“I don't like the look of your boy friend, Mary."
“ Oh, he bin all right—you gibbum plenty tucker an baccy he Wont kill
white pfeller.
“Q. Yuiop”; A small room off a veran-
dah in the Petrie-terrace police depot,
Brisbane, houses a curious collection of
relics of bygone crimes. A leather pouch
and a pair of spurs belonged to the
fashionable and dashing T. W. Griffin,
who, whilst Gold Commissioner at Rock-
hampton in 1867, murdered two escort
troopers and stole £Bl5O in notes. Wild
Toby’s tomahawk, with which he brained
Constable Dwyer in 1893, after kidnap-
ping a white girl; a piece of wood with
a fragment of a canister driven into it
by the explosion of a bomb which some
fiend designed to sink the steamer
Aramac at sea, also in 1893 ; a sling-
shot taken from a Mauritius man who
plotted wholesale murder at Wai Weer
pearling station in Torres Strait in 1888 ;
a score more of queer reminders of a
violent past. Even the Kellys are there,
as photos circulated during their time “in
smoke,” Dan a flash bush-Alec, Ned a
weak-chinned, cold-eyed lad with a slack
mouth, Steve Hart a grimly handsome
young stockman.
* * * *
“Kaloa”; The yarn in the New Guinea
Mandate report about the bright lad who
has been exacting blackmail from his
neighbors by pretending to be in tow
with the devil has been off heard in
N.G. and even in Australian history.
William MacGregor had to face a lot
of his kind, and dealt sternly, if humor-
ously, with it. His repressive measures
varied from washing the magician with
soap to making him appear in the streets
in female costumes, such as the outfit
of a widow in mourning, coloring and
all. But his recipe always included some-
thing to remove Old Nick from the sys-
tem —a barbarous purge of areca-nut,
castor oil, paraffin, cascara and any other
inviting ingredient which suggested itself.
The devil rarely imposed himself a second
time on the emaciated victim whom Old
Bill had purified.
* * * *
“Larakiya”: The appointment of Dr.
Strehlow as a native-control officer in
Central Australia points the way to the
creation of a well-informed native ser-
vice in the outback. Strehlow was born
in Hermannsburg, and received his
primary education there before starting
on a brilliant scholastic career in Ade-
laide. He understands the native mind
as no ordinary anthropologist can. I
know at least half a dozen bright young-
sters in Central Australia who speak the
native languages like natives. Some of
them have been sent south to high
schools. Most have gone back to the
stations to become drovers and station-
hands, but they are of mental stuff which,
backed by their bush-training, make
them ideal material to stock the native
patrols. A few should be picked out and
trained as cadets for the service. Under
Strehlow, they would soon pay for their
training, even if few of them could emu-
late the feat of the university anthropolo-
gist who, the other day, walked 200
miles through the rough sandstone
country of Arnhem Land in seven days.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Dick Allom’s sisters were two recent
brides. Now Richard’s engagement to
Phyllis Cowlishaw, youngest daughter of
the late J. P. O. Cowlishaw and of Mrs.
Cowlishaw, Clayfield, and granddaughter
of the late “Jimmy” Cowlishaw, formerly
one of the directors of the Brisbane
“Telegraph,” is announced.
The executive committee of the
Queensland Social Service League met in
the Lady Mayoress’s room to pour tea
in honor of Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart, whose
husband retires from the Garrick law pro-
fessorship. Bishop Dixon referred to her
as “a moral force.” Mrs. Percy Pease
was hostess.
Lady Wilson has gone up to Noorin-
doo, son Peter’s station, near Surat.
The second annual Merchant Navy Ball,
in aid of the Mission to Seamen, will be
held at the Belle Vue Hotel on July 8,
when the wool fleet is here. There still
is a capital debt to wipe out. Mrs. A. E.
Moore, president of the Ladies’ Harbor
Lights Guild, presided over the first meet-
ing.
Nellie Gray gave the members of the
Brisbane Women’s Club a treat when she
and her pupils trotted out examples of
the folksongs of 15 different countries.
Keith Hall presided. Mrs. H. Edwards
interpreted the Scottish folksongs, of
which “An Eriskay Love Lilt” was the
most appealing. Moya Glassey sang
Irish songs, and Joan Davies a Welsh
number. Molly Harvey and Boaz Blum-
berg trotted out some Russian specimens.
It was a good concert, and unusual.
Ruby Missing, who has been in Bris-
bane, was the guest at a tea given by
Mrs. A. P. Deshon and daughter Brenda.
Mrs. Hubert King gave a party in honor
of Ruby a few days before.
The Catholic Daughters turned to
bridge to provide winter clothing for
poor families. The hostesses were Mrs.
A. E. Douglas, Mrs. N. Hall, Mrs. Owen
Kelly and Miss Adeline Power.
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Stephens were the
stars of “To Have the Honor,” produced
by Rhoda Felgate in aid of the funds of
the Mothercraft Association. The Cilento
lady, president of the association, with
Mrs. Cilento, sen., beside her, was in the
front rows. There was a good roll-up.
Marjorie Cummins, of Townsville, just
back from a trip to Asia, is to be mar-
ried shortly to C. Wilkinson, and will
make her home in Brisbane.
Mrs. F. B. Hammond presided at the
thank-you tea given in honor of Mrs.
J. W. C. Wand, Lady Mayoress Mrs. A.
J. Jones and the conveners of the garden
party and fete at Bishopsbourne in aid
of Y.W.C.A. funds. Treasurer F. C.
Lea handed over a cheque for £166 7s.
2d., which was good money for these
hard times. Firth Edmonds arranged
the musical programme. Mrs. Hammond
mentioned that about 2000 girls are con-
nected with the association in Brisbane.
Mrs. Stan Schooley, once Hazel Will-
cocks, one of Brisbane’s noted horse-
women, collapsed after riding at the
Ipswich Show, and died early next morn-
ing. She leaves a husband, two little
girls and a boy. Dr, George Willcocks,
of Sydney, is a brother, and Bob Will-
cocks, a former inter-State Rugby star,
another.
Mary Maguire asked a few friends to
a five o’clock party at the Belle Vue in
honor of J. O. C. Orton, who went to
U.S.A. on the Monterey, The crew of
the R.A.F. flying boat, just arrived from
Singapore, were among the guests.
Mr. G. C. Reid is president of the
Legacy Ball committee, always one of
the brightest functions of the season.
Mrs. G. C. Reid is to be official hostess.


e
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
FIRST
ANNIVERSARY
SALE
UNDER PRESENT MANAGEMENT
EVERYTHING i A O /
REDUCED least 1U/ °
Except a few Proprietary Lines.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL SALE
BARGAIN LIST.
PRIDE'S RADIO SERVICE
It D.C. M- INTYRE ]l
5 AMO 6 AND EL PLACE SYDNEY Pun me B4f4g
RADIO NEWS
Manufacturers’ Opportunities.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
New Commonwealth tariff amend-
ments and prohibitions have * been
scheduled, and in the latter radio comes
in for attention under item 21. Without
the consent of the Minister, the importa-
tion from countries outside the Empire
of “wireless receivers, parts thereof, and
accessories therefor ; valves for wireless
telegraphy and telephony, including rec-
tifying valves,” is forbidden.
This will come as a blow to many,
for there are many U.S.A. radio acces-
sories which will be difficult to duplicate.
For specialised work, for instance, the
familiar isolantite or ceramic valve
socket and the isolantite insulated midget
variable condenser have found a ready
market. These items, and many others,
come from U.S.A. But they are also ob-
tainable from Britain, very good articles,
too. Indeed there are many excellent
components manufactured in Great
Britain which, in view of the limited de-
mand in Australia, do not at present
warrant duplication by Australian manu-
facturers. No doubt attention will be
paid to such higher quality material in
due course.
There is a certain demand for radio
components which are not part of the
everyday factory production. Very few
Australian manufacturers are concerned
with anything else than the production
of broadcast, dual and all-wave receivers
for the general public, and there is little
or no catering for the home-constructor
market.
Only a very few manufacturers have
continued to consider what was, in the
early days of radio broadcasting, the very
foundation of the radio trade.
There are thousands of people inter-
ested purely in the experimental side of
radio, particularly in,the short-wave field,
and they are just as keen in 1936 as in
1926. In Australia experimenters are
poorly catered for. Radio publications
do their best, but many desirable acces-
sories are either not available or are very
expensive. But, despite their high cost,
the few accessories obtainable are not
long on the dealer’s shelf. Most of these
components have been coming from the
U.S.A., and a few from Great Britain.
The few dealers courageous enough to
order special lines have always secured
prompt attention from America. For
some reason the British manufacturer
has not given their orders the same atten-
tion. The goods are right, but perhaps
the fact that the orders are small has led
to their being regarded as of no impor-
tance. To the Australian dealer ordering
components of a specialised nature, and
not in everyday demand, it is quite a
consideration when duty and freight have
to be totted up. It is to be hoped now
that certain useful American items are
banned that Australian -manufacturers
will pay some attention to filling the gap,
and that British manufacturers will do
something about tentative enquiries for
their goods.
D. B. K.
All Round the Dial.
Among new appointments announced
by A.B.C. is that of Howard Carr as
music editor. Howard Carr came to
Australia in 1907 for J. C. Williamson.
His work included the writing of ballets
for pantomime, special ballet music for
light opera, editing of the production
“The Lady Dandies” and rewriting finales.
His first symphonic experience was as
conductor at the Sydney Town Hall; he
conducted a new orchestral rhapsody of
his own composition, “The Black Opal.”
In 1909 he returned to England, and
after 18 years rejoined J. C. William-
son. On termination of his contract he
devoted his time to newspaper articles
and the broadcasting of orchestral talks.
During Alfred Hill’s absence from the
Sydney Con. he rehearsed and con-
ducted the Students’ Orchestra and
became conductor of the Royal Philhar-
monics. In England his activities
covered a wide range of experience—
melodrama, pantomime, revue, musical
comedy and light opera. And, with Gals-
worthy, Walpole, Maxwell and other
well-known literary figures, he was on
the committee of the Society of Authors.
* * * *
“Old Bill”; A 8.8. C. broadcast, “All
Fares, Please,” awakened memories of
war years and “Old Bill.” The B-type
vehicles that did such wonderful work
in France first took the road in 1910.
Only two buses of the type remain: “Old
Bill,” which, though in retirement, re-
appears on such occasions as the funerals
of busmen, and another in the London
Transport Board’s museum. The latter
has gone to Vancouver to take part in
golden jubilee celebrations there.
What’s What in Radio.
Latest Australian P.M.G. figures
show a total of 803,215 radio licenses.
Experimental licenses number 1457.
-I-
The first demonstration of combined
sight and sound via the ’phone was
staged in London recently in connection
“We now come to the Merry Minstrel session, brought to you by courtesy
of the Emu Boot Polish Company."
with the booking of seats for a new film
at Selfridges. The intending purchaser
went into a telephone booth which was
in semi-darkness, took a seat before a
television receiver and immediately he
picked up the telephone receiver there
appeared on the screen of the cathode-
ray tube a picture of the booking clerk.
* * *
8.8. C. recently broadcast a musical
biography of the life of Melba. Nellie’s
recorded voice was heard again. The
programme included some of her most
famous arias, and ended with her abso-
lutely farewell speech at Covent Garden
in 1926.
% ❖ Jk
The first field tests of television by
Radio Corporation of America will
begin shortly. The corporation empha-
sises that this does not mean a regular
television service, but is no more than
an essential pioneering stage to discover
the possibilities under actual working
conditions. The transmitter will be on
the New York Empire State Building.
* * * *
In the search for original tuning dials
for radio receivers, a British manufac-
turer has evolved what is called “Trave-
light tuning.” The control panel is
occupied by an illuminated map of
Europe; as each station is tuned-in a
small spot of light appears on the map
in the correct geographical position of
the station. The method of achieving
this is a trade secret.
jJ; Sjs : 1 :
The British P.O. has installed a “speak-
ing clock” to announce the time over the
telephone, at intervals of 10 seconds.
By dialling T-I-M telephone subscribers
can connect with the clock. Circular
sound tracks on whirling discs supply
the announcement to photo-electric cells,
which are centred over the required track
at the proper instant by a cam
mechanism.
* * * *
A demonstration of high-definition
television has been witnessed at Brisbane
(Q.) Polytechnic ; it was arranged by the
college principal in conjunction with T.
Biddle, lecturer on television and asso-
ciate of T. M. B. Elliott, Brisbane’s tele-
vision research worker. The station at
the Observatory Tower went into action,
and students were able to see television
reception under ordinary operating con-
ditions. Transmission consisted of pic-
tures of screen stars and special items
used in testing definition The receiver
was constructed by Biddle, illustrating
that television is within the scope of the
home constructor. Elliott is planning a
series of demonstrations at a coming
exhibition, where people will be able to
enter a telephone cabinet and talk with
an operator at a distant station, seeing
tae operator at the same time.
City Short-wave Diallings.
The approach of winter is marked by
rapidly changing conditions. Daylight
reception has improved, but during the
evenings there is little to report outside
3LR and 3 ME, the Japanese JVM,
Daventry on GSG and the Javanese sta-
tions. The two local stations are heard
well in the early part of their pro-
grammes, but towards 7.30 p.m. fade
away considerably. After 9 p.m. GSG
comes through nicely on the 16m. band,
though on the weak side and subject to
fading.
The Javanese stations increase in
strength as the evening progresses, and
either PMN, YDB and sometimes PLP is
in the ascendant. Late one evening I
heard a transmission from Bandoeng,
Java, on a wave-length of about 44.7ra.
This station has not been referred to in
any of the published lists or in listeners’
reports; it must be a newcomer. It is
very strong and of clear, even and gener-
ally excellent quality. Until 1.30 a.m. it
gave a varied programme, including a
Beethoven concerto, light music, grand
opera and some captivating Dutch songs.
One of the most attractive stations dn
the dial.
That conditions are changing is evi-
denced by the fact that on the same
evening the Mexican station XEXA, on
48.526 m., was heard much more strongly
than before. For nearly a quarter of an
hour after opening at 11 p.m. with the
“March of the Toys” it was free from
the usual loud Morse signals and was
100 p.c. readable, though the noise level
was high. The Colombo station on
49.6 m. showed improvement, but was still
somewhat indistinct against the unquiet
background. JVP Nazaki (39.95 m.) was
louder than for some time; PMY
(58.3 m.) was rather noisy; RVIS
Khabarovsk (70m.) had much of the ful-
ness and strength of the winter months,
but was rough in quality compared with
the Moscow station RNE.
New Russian and Japanese stations are
heard testing, but in the absence of an-
nouncements in English it is impossible
as yet to identify them. One Japanese, a
little below 3LR, showed that it was in
the van of progress by producing a
Nipponese Bing Crosby. It doesn’t quite
encourage the hope I heard expressed
from the latter station that “one of these
days the nations will beat their swords
into ploughshares and their crooners into
unconsciousness.”
On another occasion I heard “Yankee
Doodle” made the motif of a Japanese
symphony. More than once I have
heard a dainty Dutch version of “Red-
wing.”
Among interesting items heard re-
cently ; A W2XAF broadcast of the
arrival of the Zeppelin Hindenburg at
Lakehurst, New Jersey ; a GSF relay of
Mussolini’s speech announcing Italy’s in-
tentions towards Abyssinia—a translation
was given at the end of the transmission ;
from RNE, excellent singing by men and
women in unison, followed by a patient
lesson in English on that hopeless sub-
ject Russian pronunciation.
Very beautiful reception
has been obtained in the
evening from KZRM, Radio
Manila, on about 27.5 m.
Announcements are given
in English and Spanish, and
compositions of Debussy
are played. Early in the
month the 20m. amateur
band became for a time
quite dead. Despondent
VKs were heard to say that
DX was “about finished,”
although on two consecutive
evenings contacts were
made with CO7CX Cuba —
it came through surprisingly
well considering the condi-
tions. Changing over a few
nights later to an aerial
which was not directional
to the U.S.A., I found that a few
individual Americans were heard almost
as well as during the peak period, but
they did not come in their cohorts as
formerly.
Having regard to the international
agreement, it is difficult to understand
why interference with transmissions of
national stations is permitted to continue.
For months past signal interference has
spoilt 2RO. Another racket is incon-
veniently close to RNE, and still another
to JVM. The late afternoon transmis-
sions of TPA2 (Radio Coloniale on
19.68 m.) are sometimes similarly afflicted.
Worst of all, from the Australian
listener’s point of view, was the havoc
wrought to 3LR’s broadcast of “Prince
Igor” by persistent Morse signals
which cut across the ear like the jagged
edge of a knife. And I had waited 20
years for a chance to hear a performance
of Borodin’s opera!
P. R. W.


RADIOTIvNS
ALL METAL” OR “GLASS”-A VALVE FOR EVERY REQUIREMENT
Radiotrons IC4 and !D4 give greater efficiency and
economy in battery consumption.
insist on your receiver being equipped with Radiotrons.
amalgamated wireless
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
w
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
(Advertisemen^o^AmaTgamate^VV^S^^^^^^^^^^^^^Limited)
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions are now typical of winter,
with only a few stations audible from
dusk until after midnight. Exceptions
are the three D.E.I. stations on 27, 29
and 31 metres.
A few weak carriers can be heard in
the 49m. band, but nothing of any enter-
tainment value.
The most favorable time now is the
early afternoon, when Germany, Eng-
land, France and sometimes U.S.A. are
all good. The 25m. band is preferable,
even though signals are stronger on 31m.
2RO has been missing from the 31m.
band lately and could not be found
around 25m.
Four years ago the Italians used both
42m. and 75m. Transmission on 75m.
at daybreak was outstanding. Signal
strength was greater than has been heard
since on either the 31m. or 25m. bands.
RNE, using the 25m. band, has been
one of the best from 6.30 a.m. to 8 a.m.,
but is not heard consistently.
Radio Coloniale is using 25.6 m. in-
stead of 25.28 m. in the early morning,
and, as is always the case, the 25.6 m.
transmission is stronger.
8.8. C. is now using 19m. after
7 a.m., and for a while strength is only
fair, but it steadily improves. Accord-
ing to an observer at hours when the
writer cannot listen the reception is ex-
cellent after 8 a.m.
No. 2 transmission on 16m. and 14m.
is now almost inaudible, but the very
short waves continue to be exceptional.
Many U.S.A., M.L. and Japanese ama-
teur ’phone stations are heard in the 10-
metre band at different times of the day.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
On the evening of May 23, the writer
listened to a station with a weak, fading
signal calling “CQ DX” around 14,350 kc.
Owing to the operator’s “fist” the call-
sign was at first logged as XE3TT.
Mexico being more or less “local” just
now little notice was taken, until it was
realised that the operator was sending
TF3TT. His call was answered, and con-
tact was immediately effected with
Reykjavik, Iceland. The first Australia-
Iceland connection? During the talk, the
writer learned that an old friend of early
radio days is now chief engineer of the
broadcasting service at Reykjavik. Radio
makes the world smaller.
W6CNE was heard describing details
of his five-metre directive array to
VK2MY. This West Coast station works
with eastern U.S.A. on “five,” and will be
a good station for tests across the Pacific
in the very near future. English amateurs
are reported in the “T. and R. Bulletin”
as working with Frenchmen on five
metres. Several Australians are preparing
advanced apparatus for extended DX
tests on five metres ; it should be a wel-
come change from the turbulence of 20
metres. On this latter DX band, the
world and his wife are shouting into
microphones, and 40 metres has actually
taken second place for QRM, particu-
larly on Sunday afternoons
VK2NO.
Ideal Amateur Superhet.
This receiver (B. 15/4/’36 and B.
22/4/’36) is proving immensely popular
with constructors interested in the ama-
teur wavebands, the design being so
simple that there is really very little to
go amiss. Still, one receiver, ostensibly
a copy of the original design, wouldn’t
perform around 20 metres. The builder
reckoned it couldn’t, and the scribe agreed
that it would be a miracle if it did.
All the commonsense laws of short-
wave receiver construction had been
flouted. In addition to a maze of long,
trailing flex wire in tuned circuits, which
must be symmetrical if detector and oscil-
lator are to track correctly, the mechani-
cal construction was hopeless. The
panel partition between detector and
oscillator portions had been placed too
close to the rear of the chassis, with the
detector tuning condenser mounted on
this panel, and the oscillator tuner on the
front panel. The two condensers were
“ganged” by a thin wooden spindle
which twisted when the dial was rotated,
and no rotor earth return was employed.
To complete the earthing between the
two variable condensers, the circuit in-
cluded a lengthy path, down one panel
to chassis, along the chassis top and up
the other panel to the other condenser.
It was to avoid this kind of thing that
the writer stressed the usefulness of the
copper tube carrying the heater wiring.
This is used as a common earth bus, and
all earth returns are made directly to it.
Other readers who have made a good
job of the construction have run into
trouble by powering the receiver from
the usual 385-volt plate supply unit. If
this is done the oscillator will get far
too high a plate voltage, and will
generate harmonics with startling fre-
quency and intensity in unwanted places
on the dial. A series resistor, 50,000
ohms at 2 watts, should be included in
the plate supply to the oscillator, with
this resistor by-passed to earth on the
plate side by a .Imfd. tubular condenser.
Also, with high plate voltage, the second
detector will not regenerate smoothly,
and will probably growl or “motor-boat”
as it goes into oscillation. To avoid this,
a lower value of cathode resistor can be
used ; as low as 250 ohms in place of
the 1000. The grid-coupling resistor of
the second triode, now 50,000 ohms, can
be reduced in value to around 10,000
ohms.
Several readers have asked whether
this receiver can be used for general
short-wave tuning. It can, but, by reason
of the separate band-setter condensers, is
not particularly suitable for anything
other than tuning over the amateur
bands. It is intended in the near future
to build up two special receivers using
this regenerative principle applied to all-
wave tuning. One will be a five-valve
type and the other a two-valve type for
portability.
D. B. K.
Double-doublet Arrangement.
One of the many aerial systems designed
to minimise or assist in reducing lead-in
pickup of surrounding electrical inter-
ference is that known as the “R.C.A.
double-doublet.” Introduced in U.S.A.
by the R.C.A. Co., it is also manufac-
tured and sold in kit form in Australia.
In contrast to the ordinary twisted pair
feeder-line, this double-doublet calls for
two extra halyards or fixings for the
lower portions of each doublet radiating
outward from the centre. This means
that four lots of rope or other halyards
are needed to keep the arrangement taut.
From “Radio-Craft” (U.S.A.) comes a
bright suggestion by a reader, who makes
the aerial system do its own supporting
of the inner doublet portions. The sug-
gestion is illustrated in a self-explanatory
manner.
Latest in the Trade.
A.W.A. Valve Co. advise that the
range of “all-metal” valves has been in-
creased by the addition of two new types
—SW4 and 6N7. The 5W4 is an “all-
metal” filament type, full-wave rectifier
intended for use where D.C. requirements
are moderate:
Filament voltage (A.C.), 5 volts.
Filament current, I.Samps.
A.C. plate voltage per plate (R.M.S.),
350 (max.) volts.
D.C. output current, 110 (max.) ma.
Radiotron 6N7 is an “all-metal” Class-
B twin amplifier similar in application
to glass types 6A6 and 53:
Heater voltage (A.C. or D.C.), 6.3 volts.
Heater current, O.Samps.
Maximum overall length, 3£ inches.
Maximum diameter, 1 5-16 inches.
Base, small octal eight-pin.
A Class-B power amplifier has:
Plate voltage, 300 (max.) volts.
Peak plate current (per plate), 125 (max.)
milliamperes.
Average plate dissipation, 10 (max.) watts.
And a new duplex diode pentode bat-
tery-operated valve (Radiotron IF6) is
designed for use as a second detector in
battery-operated receivers:
Filament voltage (D.C.), 2 volts.
Filament current, o.o6amps.
Direct interelectrode capacitances —pen-
tode unit:
Grid to plate (with shield-can), 0.007
(max.) uuf.
Input, 4 uuf.
Output, 9 uuf.
Overall length, 4 9-32 inches to 4 17-3-
inches.
Maximum diameter, 1 9-16 inches.
Bulb, ST-12.
Cap, small metal.
Base, small six-pirn
The Q. and A. Column
Have built the Little Twin, described B.
29/1/’36. Results have been satisfactory on the
short waves, hut I have not been able to tune
in anything at a wave-length appreciably greater
than the 80-metre band. Oscillation does not
appear to be correct with the 150- and 250-turn
grid coils , What is wrong ? —426.
The first thing to be sure of is smooth oscil-
lation, otherwise this receiver will be little more
than useless. Some experimentation will be
needed with the plate coil in each instance, and
addition or removal of turns and variation of
the spacing between grid and plate coils will
be necessary. With the specifications given, the
two coils will cover the broadcast range pro-
vided the tuning condenser is not less than
,00015mfd. A 23-plate midget variable con-
denser is only .OOOlmfd. maximum, and this
would not give complete coverage.
* * * *
Is it essential that a twin valve of the Class-
B type be used for the second detector in the
Ideal Amateur Superhet (B. 15/4/’36) ?—427.
Not so far as the superhet principle goes,
but it is desirable in the interests of economy,
coupled with low noise background. Actually,
a type-76 could be used as second detector
with the regeneration feature in the cathode,
and this valve followed by a 42 pentode. This
means two cathodes in action against one, and
thus the 79 was used to limit the function to
that of one valve nominally.
* * * #
Would like an opinion on the Astor five-
valve wireless receiver operating on a six-volt
accumulator, and using no B or C batteries ?
—428,
Not having had an opportunity of examining
one of these productions no comment can be
given, except that it is understood that a
vibratory rectifier is employed for plate and
bias voltage supplies. Manufacturers are
making a model 77 dual-wave available for
test.
* * *
Are there many stations still active on the
ultra-short waves so popular with Sydney ama-
teurs early in 1935 ? —429.
Around June, 1935, about 35 Sydney amateur
stations were active on the five-metre band.
Even with this limited number the interference
problem became acute, because the apparatus
used was not suited to a crowded band. The
leaders in this work decided to call a halt and
to concentrate on the development of advanced
apparatus. New transmitters of the crystal-
controlled type and special superheterodyne
receivers are under construction. Aerial sys-
tems are also being revised and will be de-
signed and erected with a view to the possi-
bility of long-distance working. A few stations
are still to be heard with super-regenerators
and modulated oscillators at intervals, but these
are usually working over purely local ranges.
The Water Board engineers can also be heard
testing experimental equipment at frequencies
just below the amateur five-metre band.
* * * *
I recently bought an Astor one-control
shielded six (Hazeltine neutrodyne) about six
years old. Reception is very good; plenty of
volume and good clarity; a large number of
stations at night-time and most of them by
day. One thing has me puzzled. When the
set is “off” I can put one hand on the switch
and, with the other making contact with a loud-
speaker terminal, tapping, each tap makes a
click in the speaker, and I feel a slight shock.
Nothing is wrong on reception, but I would
like your advice to put my mind at rest. —425.
There is only one answer. Don’t do it!
Although not stated, it is assumed that the set
in question is a battery model, as is most
likely for your country location. The battery
switch has one side connected to the B nega-
tive, and placing your hand on the speaker
terminal which is at the full B-battery potential
naturally completes a circuit through your body.
No harm can be done in any case.
* * * *
Being interested in making a small short-wave
receiver, I should like information on the fol-
lowing: (1) Is it possible to make a single-
valve receiver with a triode for the five-metre
band, or preferably for the five- to 20-metre
bands, with plug-in coils ? (2) If so, please
supply a circuit. (3) What would be the best
aerial for such a circuit ? (4) What advantage
has a directional aerial in the matter of (a)
increased power in the receiver where the trans-
mitting station is non-directional, (b) lack of
interference from other stations during recep-
tion ? —424.
(1) Yes; but, owing to the wide difference in
frequency, tuning will necessarily be difficult
on the five-metre range. (2) A suitable circuit
is illustrated. This is a “self-quencher,” and is
The single-valve super-regenerativi
circuit.
easy to make and put uuo Action. The coils
LI and L 2 can be an R.C.S. interrupter unit,
or may be home-made. LI would need about
4000 turns of 42 copper enamelled wire, and L 2
about 3500 turns of the same-gauge wire wound
in slab form, in slots. The two coils should
be side by side, with quite close coupling.
Old large-sized honeycomb coils could be used,
but the dimensions of these would make the
receiver a bulky affair. (3) Almost any kind of
external aerial would serve. (4) ( a ) Not enough
to be of great benefit. ( b ) Minimisation of
interference from stations working near the
frequency of the wanted station is an advan-
tage, but to obtain this effect to any degree the
aerial system must be highly directional, and
thus more complicated.
TWO WEEKS TO GO
Sydney’s 1936
Amateur Radio Exhibition
Organised by the N.S.W. Division, Wire-
less Institute of Australia. Open June 15
to 20, in Presbyterian Assembly Hall
(Lower Hall), Wynyard Square.
Not a cabinet display—but a scientific
demonstration of the latest ideas in
amateur and short-wave radio.
Inter-club and general amateur construc-
tional competitions, with valuable prizes
donated by prominent traders and manu-
facturers.
Competitions open to non-members at a
small entry fee.
Complete radiophone and telegraphy trans-
mitters in action. Experimental television
apparatus. Demonstrations of ultra-short-
wave working. Military display.
THE week and meeting place for all
interested in short-wave radio!
The exhibition will be open from 6 p.m.
to 10 p.m. on June 15, 16, 18 and 19;
from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. on the 17th,
and from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on the 20th.
Admission 6d. Children 3d.
Exhibition committee:
H. F, Peterson, VK'iHP
VV. Ryan, VK2TI
W. M. Moore, VK2HZ
D. B. Knock, VK2NO


«SILVER
EDGE *
* TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Flop.; JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
(I
SIMONIZ
Certainly
keeps Cars
Beautiful!”
K
S\»°
car
Our
;OLD liY ALL, GOOD MOTOR riTOBES.
SMALL, 2/<i; LARGE, 5/-.
The Steering column.
MOTORS AND MOTORING IN THE
’NINETIES.
AN AUTHENTIC RECORD OF SOME EARLY
HAPPENINGS.
BY FRED BERRY.
' I ‘HIRTY years ago possessors of motor-cars in Australia
were few and far between, and those who at that time
travelled the road in self-propelled vehicles retain vivid
recollections of the hard work and intimate mechanical know-
ledge necessary to keep them in service.
Yet even at this early date the real pioneers of motoring
in England and on the Continent had been using “horseless
carriages” for more than a decade.
Although the many difficulties and perils besetting these
early drivers are now, for the most part, forgotten, an authentic
record of early happenings must be of interest to the modern
motorist.
Nowadays, almost any touring car of
recent design can cruise in comfort over
main roads and maintain an average of
40 to 50 m.p.h. It was not always so.
It is on record that in the first great
road-racing event from Paris to Bor-
deaux and return, 732 miles, held in ’95,
only nine of the 46 entrants struggled
home to Paris, the winning machine
doing the trip at 15.7 m.p.h.
In reports of the event it was explained
that the weakest spots in the machines
were tyres, steering and tube ignition.
Pneumatic tyres, while easily the best,
proved unreliable by reason of innumer-
able punctures and the time taken in
repair. Solids, on the other hand, had
a nasty habit of coming off the rim when
driving “fast” round corners. Iron
tyres quickly fractured with weight and
speed.
Trouble with tube ignition was caused
by gusts of wind extinguishing the
burners, with “consequent delay and in-
convenience” ; and driving systems, being
direct-acting and reversible, soon reduced
drivers to a condition of physical ex-
haustion.
A 4-h.p. Daimler of ’95 vintage, similar in design {except
for the canopy ) to the winner of Paris-Bordeaux race. Note
the horse-carriage type springs and original steering layout.
Early Tests.
In England, according to the “Auto-
motor and Horseless Vehicle Journal,”
the Royal Agricultural Society, in an
effort to stimulate aufomobilism, offered
in 1898 four prizes amounting to £3OO
for the winners of a test open to “moto-
vehicles carrying ordinary load over a
distance of not less than 50 miles.” One
of the sub-events was a test of efficiency
of vehicles in ascending and descending
steep grades. The outright winner
proved to be a Daimler averaging 7.82
m.p.h.
In the light of modern design a brief
mechanical description of the winning
vehicle makes interesting reading,
The engine of four horse-power used
light oil, benzine or petrol, the two ver-
tical cylinders, enclosed in a Russian iron
casing in front of the driver, having a
bore of 3fin. and stroke of 6fin. Front
cylinder ended in a casing round the
crankshaft in which there was a bath of
lubricating oil for the crank pins and
pistons. Drive was by friction clutches,
which slipped at starting, to a square
shaft on which were four spur driving
wheels giving a speed of 2 m.p.h., 4
m.p.h., 6 m.p.h. and 8 m.p.h. Final drive
was by sprockets and pitch chains,
Rear road wheels were 3ft. 3in
diameter; “fore-carriage” wheels, 2ft. 6im
Tyres were solid rubber, 2iin wide
Three brakes were fitted: two shoe-type
on tyres, a foot brake on countershaft.
There was also a
sprag which could
be lowered to pre-
vent the vehicle from
running back on
hills. Fuel, carried
in a tank below
engine, was raised
by exhaust pressure.
Oil tank contained
six gallons,
“reckoned to be
sufficient for a 70-
mile run,” while the
cooling water tank
held 16 gallons. Cost
of oil was then l\d.
per gallon.
Petrol Consumption.
Press reports of
this interesting test
caused a great deal
of controversy, one
correspondent in par-
ticular, possessed of
a car, ridiculing the claims made
for petrol consumption. The reply, to-
gether with a lengthy technical discourse
upon the effects of load, speed, h.p. and
gradients, stated that “on a fairly level
road a motor of 4 b.h.p. should be able
to propel a vehicle carrying four persons
a distance of 52 miles, and consume only
2igal. to 3gal. of petrol,” and further
suggested that “if complainant’s engine
did not give such good results a complete
overhaul of cylinders, ignition tubes and
transmission gears was indicated.”
Apparently if one wished to maintain
efficiency in these ancient vehicles it was
very necessary to do, or
have done by the
“mechanician,” a number
of jobs that would be quite
foreign to modern drivers,
for in a letter to the editor
of the “Automotor” one
David Solomons throws
some light upon “clean-
ing the cylinders of petrol
motors.”
“All owners of carriages
driven by oil engines
clean the cylinders each
time the vehicle has been
used by passing a little
benzine into them and giv-
ing the engine a spin by
hand. As a rule this
operation is done when
arriving home.
“I would point out the
great danger of this opera-
tion unless due precautions
are observed, for unless the burners are
first completely extinguished and allowed
to cool there is danger of fire. To-day
I found my carriage had been on fire
owing to carelessness ip this process, and
but for the promptness of my
Replaced in modern motors by the spark
plug. Sectional drawing of tube ignition
unit which for starting was preheated by
an electrical current.
mechanician much damage would have
resulted. As it is, some expensive re-
pairs will be necessary.”
Difficulty in obtaining supplies of
fuel and oil was one of the greatest
worries of owners of horseless-carriages
in the ’nineties. One intrepid motorist,
upon requesting details of a suitable
week-end tour of about 130 miles
wherein adequate supplies could be ob-
tained, was informed that the only suit-
able way such a tour could be under-
taken was to send in advance the neces-
sary quantities of fuel. The reason given
was that traders could not store more
than 20 gallons, and then only in a
sealed metal container under penalty of
£lO, with perhaps a further £lO in costs.
As a solution of this trouble the sugges-
tion was made that “much can be done
by automobilists in their individual
capacity by declining fo support any
political candidate who will not pledge
himself to resist the needlessly drastic
and severe regulations made by the
Home Office” —a suggestion which some-
how sounds familiar to-day!
Police Activities.
In such cases where motorists did
make provision for fuel supplies, driving
on the public highways was not without
further worries, for even at this early
date “automobilists” appear to have
been selected by police for special atten-
tion, the more common offences being
furious driving, exceeding a safe speed of
eight to twelve miles per hour and un-
duly causing alarm to animals.
January, ’99, appears to have been a
particularly unhappy month for posses-
sors of “moto-cars,” as a number of
convictions are reported. One Henry
House, charged with “driving a moto-car
at a greater speed than eight m.p.h. so
as to endanger the lives and limbs of
pedestrians.” made history by being the
first motorist to be convicted on “timed”
evidence. In this case two constables
“hit upon the happy idea of comparing
watches so as to detect the unwary occu-
pant of the motor as he came careering
Forerunner of modern unit construction of engine
and gearbox, the Panhard et Levassor motor and
transmission combined strength, speed and light
weight.
along York-avenue at ten o’clock in the
night.”
Defendant pleaded a speed of seven
m.p.h., but as he had “no instrument fitted
to the vehicle to confirm his statement”
the magistrate believed the police. Fined
£3 ; costs, £1 1 Is. 6d.
For furiously driving a moto-car in
Whitehall, the driver, John Cole, and his
three passengers were all charged. Evi-
dence was given that they drove past the
Florse Guards at a rate of 18 m.p.h. and
took no notice of a command to halt!
Defendant produced a wheel and printed
document to prove that, as geared, the
vehicle could not exceed 10 or 11 m.p.h.,
but all to no purpose. Driver and pas-
sengers were each fined £2 2s. or a month.
A sympathetic hearing was accorded a
carrier who stated that, having ordered
a motorist to stop, he failed to do so and
a collision resulted.
Evidence was given to show that the
driver of the horse van was thrown to
the road, sustaining a severe scalp
wound, while the horse, becoming res-
tive, kicked a youth in the back, causing
him grievous bodily harm.
In spite of trials and tribulations
motorists at this stage appear to have
been greatly concerned as to their status,
and a leader in the “Automotor” under
date Feb., ’99, includes some bright ideas


NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED * ALLSTATES
'"PHE famous Airship, “Graf
A Zeppelin,” has flown over a
million miles, and every one
of them on VEEDOL. Over
raging seas through Arctic
and Torrid regions through
electrical storms this famous
Airship, carrying throughout
her career thousands of
passengers and valuable
merchandise, has never
once been held up by lubri-
cating troubles. Truly a
wonderful achievement, and
in no small measure due to
the outstanding lubricating
qualities of the world’s finest
OiI—VEEDOL MOTOR OIL.
“CALLING ALL CARS”
All Cars, All Trucks, All Garages, have need of these modern “Quality” Tools.
’M •
m
‘VAN-CHROME” TAPPET WRENCHES.
15° Angle. Drop-forged from Chrome
Vanadium Steel.
The thin, long and narrow-pointed jaws pro-
vide the greatest accessibility to any tapped
nuts and are set at just the right pitch.
Their unusual strength lies in the durable
quality of the Chrome Vanadium Alloy Steel
from which they are drop r forged, plus the
advanced heat-treating methods employed.
Openings:
7/16 and 17/32; 1 and 9/16; g and 11/16;
J and 5-
Black Enamel Finish.
Price, 21/6 per set. Postage extra.
“VAN-CHROME”
AUTOMOTIVE WRENCHES.
The lightest, thimlest, longest
and strongest wrenches of their
type, drop-forged from Chrome
Vanadium Steel.
The pointed jaws and thin,
narrow heads rea,eh into places
where other wrenches won’t.
The extra length provides
more leverage and accessibility.
They are finished in double
niekelplate, over copper, with
mirror—polished heads.
Set contains six “Van-Chrome”
Wrenches.
Provides openings from
Sin. to lin.
In flannel-lined leatherette
case.
Weight, 3] lb.
Price, 28/6 per set.
“YAN-CBtROMB”
MULTIHEX BOX
WRENCHES.
Drop-Forged from
Chrome Vanadium
Steel.,
The abrupt offset
of the head reaches
sunken nuts: and
gets around
obstructions. Extra
thin side walls and
generous leverage.
The only box
wrench made that
reaches those em-
bedded spark plugs.
Finished in velvety-
smooth satin nickel,
with brightly-
polished heads.
Openings:
| x 7/16 ; i x 9/16;
| x 11/16;
I x 25/32;
13/16 x |.
Price, 25/- per set.
Postage extra.
FREE!
Our large illustrated catalogue, packed with infor-
mation of value to every motorist. Hundreds of tools
shown with prices.
Send this coupon now.
Please Send Me POST FREE Your Catalogue.
NAME
ADDRESS
C
Proprietary Limited'
51-65 Bathurst Street SYDNEY
546-566 Collins Street MELBOURNE
116-130 Waymouth Street ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street PERTH
which could with advantage be con-
sidered to-day.
Discarding “Horse” Terms.
“It is very necessary that all good auto-
mobilists should discard and reprehend
An early compromise in tyre construc-
tion. No punctures and increased com-
fort. The hollow tyre anchored to the
wheel rim by bolts.
the use of terms associated with horse
haulage. The use of such terms as
near’ and ‘off side’ applied to a moto-
vehicle are as much out of place as
‘right’ and ‘left’ applied to a ship.
Horse-power, too, is a term at once un-
scientific and inappropriate when applied
to any machine. We must also find a
substitute for the word ‘stable.’ All know
what the latter is—an evil-smelling abode
for horses ; and to call the structure in
which moto-vehicles are kept by this
word is obviously improper from every
point of view.
“ ‘Repair-shop’ or ‘moto-car shop’ is
objectionable for private use, inasmuch as
the building is not used for trade pur-
poses. ‘Moto-car’ or ‘moto-coach house’
strikes us as, at any rate, the least open
to objection.” Suggestions were asked
from readers.
Body styles in the ’nineties were all of
the “open type”—very much so, as will
be seen in the accompanying illustration.
To-day more than 80 per cent, of
world production is fitted with closed
bodies. Who can say, however, that a
bashful correspondent to the “Illustrated
London News” in April, ’99, was not
responsible for the “closed-car craze ?
Closed Cars Suggested.
“My betrothed is greatly excited when
she comes to town by the novelty in rid-
ing in a moto-cab. Now, sir, I am only
too pleased to gratify her lightest whim ;
but surely the moto-cab as at present con-
structed is wholly unsuitable for engaged
people. To begin with, everyone stares
at you simply because you are in a horse-
less, buzzing thing ; and then you feel
that you might as well be in a glass case
for all the privacy you enjoy. In a han-
som cab you attract no attention, and you
are so concealed, especially at night, that
innocent endearments are never observed.
A new form of
ignition tube, the
spark plug of
to-day met with a
hostile reception
because of the
somewhat cum-
bersome arrange-
ment of induction
coils, batteries
and cams required
for its effective
operation.
But the moto-cab, when lighted up, is as
public as a triumphal car! Don’t you
think the proprietors might be persuaded
to adopt a new shape?”
NATIONAL MOTOR RALLY
After several abortive attempts by
motoring bodies to organise an inter-
national motor race in Australia to re-
place the abandoned South African event,
Premier Butler has aroused favorable
comment by announcing an All-Aus-
tralian Motor Rally, to be held in con-
junction with the South Australian cen-
tenary celebrations.
Tentative conditions provide four main
starting points; Perth, Melbourne, Syd-
ney and Broken Hill. Careful considera-
tion has been given to the various routes
to be taken by competitors. First, there
are two alternative itineraries from Syd-
ney, each occupying four days and carry-
ing 100 points. One route will be via
Wagga, Balranald and Renmark, a dis-
tance of 940 miles, one night being spent
at each town. The second route will
follow the Princes Highway to Mel-
bourne, thence via Ballarat, Hamilton
and Mt. Gambier (1285 miles). The
Perth-Adelaide route (carrying 120
points) will take six days, and have con-
trols at Coolgardie, Balladonia station,
Eucla, Ceduna and Port Augusta. The
Melbourne contingent will have the
choice of two routes: Direct to Adel-
aide (575 miles) in two days (85 points),
or a four-day journey via Albury and
Wagga, joining up there with the Sydney
section, and of course carrying a higher
number of points. Broken Hill starters
get 90 points via Port Augusta and Port
Pirie (520 miles).
Competitors will start from Perth on
December 17 ; from Sydney (both routes)
or Melbourne (second route) on December
'l9; from Melbourne (first route) or
Broken Hill on December 21. The
finish will be at Adelaide between
2 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. on December
22, when an official examination of cars
will be made. On the following day there
will be a test of starting from cold, and
a special driving test to determine the
winner in case of a tie in preliminary
stages.
Points will be allotted for punctual
arrival at controls and for condition of
cars at the conclusion of the test. A
special medallion, suitable for car badge,
will be awarded each competitor to finish,
irrespective of whether he takes part in
the final elimination tests. Dunlop-
Perdriau are providing a 100-guinea gold
cup for the winner.
Competitors will be divided into two
classes: anything up to 1500c.c. in the
first, and anything above that in the
other. The speed for the smaller cars
demands an average between controls of
25 m.p.h., while the larger cars must
average 32 m.p.h.
Rallies have proved extremely popular
in European countries, chiefly because
they are usually won by a stock car and
because the amateur driver generally
figures prominently in the prize lists, and
the contest should give the Australian
amateur his first real opportunity.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.M.H. (Bourke, N.S.W.).— Does the current
jump the breaker points when they are in an
open position in a Buick distributor ? I have
been told that the spark jumps the contact
breaker points into the H.T. windings of the
coil.
Normally the spark should not jump across
the make-and-break points when open. In
such cases the arcing is due to a faulty con-
denser, and the points will rapidly become pitted
and dirty. Purpose of make-and-break is
to “time” the opening and closing of coil cir-
cuit. Immediately the points break the spark
jumps from the end of rotor arm in distributor
head to the H.T. lead terminal and so to some
particular cylinder about to be fired by the
spark plug
* * * *
T.C.T. (Tamworth, N.S.W.). — I require a
speedy, safe and reliable car that will give good
service for many years, with an annual mileage
of about 5000. Which of those named by me
would suit best ?
Suggest either C or D.
# « sp *
R.P. (Blackheath, N.S.W.). — Have recently
had valves ground-in on my ’26 six-cylinder
car, but the tappets are still very noisy. Cause
and cure ?
Noise is simply due to wear, the excessive
clearances in valve and tappet gear allowing
metal surfaces to pound when the engine is
started up. Only cure, new parts or oversize
guides.
% j*c % ❖
N.R.K. (Wilcannia, N.S.W.). —(1) The gen-
erator of my ’3l six-cylinder car will not charge
unless commutator is cleaned repeatedly. Will
oil or grease cause this trouble, and, if so, can I
rectify without shifting radiator or lifting engine
to remove generator ? (2) Can over-lubrication
or oil from gearbox cause clutch to stick in
this car ?
(1) Yes, caused by either excess oil or grease.
To remove, unless provided with a special
puller to fit between radiator and tuning ca i e.
it is necessary to shift radiator, then draw
driving pulley far enough from the shaft to
get at generator. (2) Not likely. Suggest if
clutch “hangs” when changing gear that on
pushing out clutch pedal the accelerator be
pressed to spin the engine momentarily for the
purpose of breaking oil film on cork inserts in
clutch face. Gear should then mesh easily.
« * «
A.G.L. (Melbourne). — 1 am continually
breaking starter springs and bolts on my ’29
model six-cylinder car. I have been advised
to press starter button before switching on,
but as it is always necessary to use choke this
would be a three-handed job and therefore
impossible. Could I fit a change-over switch on
the starting circuit (diagram enclosed) and have
two positions, one for starting and one run-
ning ?
Yes, the starting circuit suggested should
assist in preventing spring breakages, but why
go to that trouble? Why not redesign the
choke control to stop in any position and then
switch on after pressing starter button?
* * *
A.S. (Stratford, N.S.W.). — I am about to
buy a new car. Would the IS-h.p. or 23 -h.p.
car named be the better for rough country
use ?
Suggest the more powerful type.
* * * *
D.McL. (Townsville, Q.). — My ’34 model car
seems to run very hot, and although pulling
and acceleration are both satisfactory, even on
long runs, I have noticed recently that a quan-
tity of pitch has melted and run out of the
coil, which is located on the dash. Cause and
cure ?
Probable cause of overheating may be unduly
retarded ignition due to timing chain jumping
sprockets, in which case it will be necessary
to retime the motor and either fit a new chain
or take up slack in one in use. Besides
faulty lubrication, weak mixture, restricted air
flow to carburettor, riding valves or perhaps
driving for long periods in low gear may each
tend to produce symptoms described. Fit a
new coil, obtainable from any service station,
and keep the old one as spare.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect, a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position- has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives..
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
“The News’’
It won’t tell the
whole world . . No!
If you’ve a sales story
you want to get'about
certainly tell
South Australia
ADELAIDE—News Ltd. North terrace,
MELBOURNE - —A. G Pike. First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins street,
SYDNEY—P. A. Messeneer. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—P A Smyth. 34-40 Ludeate
Hill, E.C.4
BUT . .
It
Representation ;
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LiEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-H€ SATUtV-CNINO
rr v I
■ZJL .•■ : r S
A
wwmwi.
Is published and circulates in Launceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-East,
North-West, and the Midlands. No papers are
published on Sundays in Tasmania; therefore,
advertise in “The Saturday Evening Express”
for the Sunday readers.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S, ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners time m
nightly to the Happy station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Oolden West . . •
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth, .
Western Australia.
that would need frequent occupation. He was without
a coat, and she liked the faint bulge of chest against
his white shirt and the glow of his brown neck.
Burnley remained calm but for a faint smile, not
sufficiently fixed to indicate nervousness. Murdoch,
on the other hand, was speaking forcibly and excit-
edly. Joyce noticed the gathering of blood in his
face, the vein standing out from his forehead and
the clouding of his eyes.
Their voices came to her alternately in varying
tones, but always in contrast; the thick utterances of
Murdoch followed by Burnley’s slow, cool accent.
“The dominating impulse isn’t sorcery,” Murdoch
was saying. “All that sorcery does is to recognise
and use the true impulse—the emotional force at the
back of all social life.”
“In other words —fear?”
No! Fear is only one facet of emotion. It
could not do otherwise than play a big part in a
country of jungle. But there are other emotions. There’s
awe, for instance. I’ve heard it called the raw material
of religion. But I won’t discuss religion except to remind
you that in its primitive stages the divinity is thought
of as power. And the native sees religion as
his attitude towards power; the mysterious forces
that exist within and without himself. All his life he
respects these forces, and attempts to use them, or
guard against them—through his sorcerers.”
“In other words,” said Burnley, “the nepu take all
the credit for acts and processes of nature.”
Murdoch looked disgusted.
“The trouble with you fellows,” he said, “is that
you overlook the vital spark at the centre of
ritual. You imagine that the nepu takes the credit
for a natural process, without in any way contributing
towards it. But he'does contribute. Man doesn’t do
as much thinking as he likes to believe. Most of the
lime he simply feels. The native feels all the time, and
he’s discovered that feeling can be transmitted. You
anthropologists get over it by saying that the darker
races are more suggestible than we are. If you looked
among your own people for a time you might discover
strange things about the conscious use of confused
thought in the lives of allegedly civilised beings.
“Our native sorcerers are not content with a mere
incantation. They know that, when they send out a
dark force of hatred towards a victim, the victim
receives it. He feels the thought-force of his enemy
beating upon him, and believes that it has
made alliance with other and stronger forces in the
unseen world about him. In the end he has to creep
into his hut and give in to what he believes is the
work of malignant spirits. Investigators explain it as
the operation of secret poisons hidden under a usage
of sorcery ; but some of us know better. There’s a
great strength of human feeling over this country,
Burnley, and it’s being constantly tapped and used.”
“Well,” said Burnley, “you may be right. But
I should like to experience this force-extension for
myself.”
Murdoch turned to Joyce.
“Fve no doubt Doctor Manson can bear me out.”
Joyce looked at him in surprise.
“Why refer to me? I know nothing about your
native minds. I’m beginning to wish I didn’t have
to know so much about their bodies.”
“Nevertheless, you ought to be able to support
my theory of thought-force. You’ll have to
think back a little—to the time I was visiting Weary
Mountain. On one of those nights you should have
received impressions of me. Can’t you remember?”
“Remember! I should think so!”
She came away from the rail and looked at
Murdoch with eyes grown wide in understanding.
“I’m not likely to forget that night. 1 was feel-
ing rather tranquil at first. The night was calm,
and amazingly empty of sound. After a time
it began to bear on me, and I opened the gramo-
phone and attempted to fill the silence with music.
A couple of records from ‘Lohengrin’ made me feel
better, and I returned to my book. Then I began
to feel depressed.”
She stopped walking, and came close to Burnley,
resting her hand on the verandah rail.
“At first it was just like any other depression;
a vague restlessness and a sort of physical dissatis-
faction. But it grew, and I began to feel it in my
blood. I waited, and tried to stay calm. As the thing
grew on me I had to recognise it as something new.
Finally I went to bed ; and as I lay there, hot and
restless, I came close to real terror.”
She turned to Burnley, involuntarily clutching a
forearm, as though in search of support from warm,
brown flesh.
“I can’t describe it properly ;, but I remember
thinking that the whole of Papua had become in some
way personal and hostile. There was something foggy
in the room ; I could feel it growing, and the fear came
that if I could not check it it would destroy me. I
scrambled out of bed and went to the gramophone.
I remember putting on the first record that came to
my hands. It was Debussy’s ‘Afternoon of a Faun’;
and as the thin piping curled up I felt as though I had
given my strange feeling an added strength from out-
side. I took off the disc so quickly that it slipped
from my hands and smashed on the floor. My second
attempt was more fortunate—a song from ‘Parsifal’;
and a strong man’s voice rose out of the silence to
support me. I thought of knights and the champions
of women —a weakness, I own, but it helped. I
put on record after record. After that I grew
calm and went back to bed. As soon as I was between
the sheets I fell asleep.”
She drew a long breath and looked at Murdoch.
“I thought I was in touch with'somt 'dark pheno-
menon of the border-line, some emanation of evil from
a silent place in Papua. And it was you!”
Murdoch refused to meet her eyes. A stubborn
smile was seated at the corners of his mouth, and a
dull color burned beneath the brown of his cheeks.
“Did you have these pleasant impressions on
one night only?”
“On more than one night; but this was the worst.
Mr. Burnley arrived the next day, and I forgot about
it in the joy of human company. Nevertheless, there
were stabbing moments of depression when I was
alone. They ceased when you arrived back at “the
clearing.”
She looked at him strangely.
“I can understand it now, and in a way I’m glad
to know. It means I’m free to dismiss a formless
fear to the wide airs. But don’t let it happen again,
my friend!”
Murdoch said something indistinct, and with no
word of farewell walked quickly from the verandah
and disappeared into the afternoon sunshine.
11.
Joyce and Burnley waited until the sound of
Murdoch’s footsteps died away. Then they looked
at each other.
“Well!” exclaimed Joyce.
Burnley took out a silver case and tapped a
• cigarette.
“There’s a strength in the man which ought to
be worth a good deal to those in authority. But
when it turns from its customary channels and is
undirected, I think it grows into a trouble, and per-
haps a danger —both to himself and to other people.”
“1 hope he doesn’t make a practice of directing
his strength towards me. Words can’t do much with
an experience of that kind. 1 was very much afraid.”
“And no wonder! Feelings like that can grow
quickly out here. You’re at once aware of your back-
ground. The jungle begins to growl, as it were, and
imagination becomes merciless. Did you think of
head-hunters?”
“I thought of everything. Really, I was surprised
at the number, of rumors that had found entry into
my mind since I came up here. They all tried to rise
before my attention at the same time, and I suffered
quite a lot in the confusion.”
She shook her shoulders, weighted with the
thinnest of dresses.
“And all the time it was only Murdoch!”
“I shouldn’t emphasise that ‘only,’ if I were you,
You can’t afford to take the fellow too lightly.”
“I suppose not; but I’ve become used to him,
and I can’t treat him very seriously. He just belongs
about the place.” .
“I don’t think you’re wise to treat him as part
of the scenery.”
She gave him a surprised look.
“It isn’t jealousy, is it, Paul?”
He shrugged his shoulders and became busy about
flicking the ash from his cigarette.
“It might be. You’ve every reason to think so
after my inevitable and clumsy attempts at love-
making.”
“Not so clumsy, Paul, but certainly inevitable.
And that’s why I’ve refused to take them seriously.
You wouldn’t like to-leave me here with a crowd of
memories more persistent and painful than the mos-
quitoes and a heartache to deepen the loneliness?”
“My dear Joyce!” he protested. “Can’t you find
a better way of describing the better moments of our
. friendship? There’ll be quite a lot of moonlight in
my own memories of my stay here: moonlight along
the jungle and the gush and gurgle of the river around
the jetty. You’ve made me sentimental, I fear; but
I’m past caring. Can’t you chuck all this and go
away with me?”
Joyce laughed—but softly.
“I wish you wouldn’t look quite so much in
earnest. It’s easier for both of us if you stay cool
and undisturbed, with a faintly superior smile lurking
at the corners of your mouth. But, seriously, Paul,
don’t you think I would be a fool to take you at your
word'so soon?”'
“Quite intelligent people fall in love.”
“My dear, it’s the absurd inevitability of the thing
that holds me back. Just imagine: you and I down
here —man and woman —both young and reason-
ably attractive to each other. In your case, too, there
was an element of surprise. You hadn’t expected
to find me here ; and already, I think, your eyes were
weary of the jungle-green and the sunglare. Things
were happening within a few days—male and female
of the species moving towards each other.”
She stopped short, biting at her lower lip as she
realised that she was quoting Murdoch. The memory
of their first long argument came back clearly, and she
sat without speaking.
(To be continued next week.)


/
mm \ <s* A f f
X
a
''S'
\ m
%y
.'V;
- /'ll
%%
ft
RICH
MPPOOR
Both Use Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are to-day more
extensively used by all classes of the community than
any other such remedy sold in Australasia. Male
and female, rich and poor, town and country dwellers,
all use them. The merchant, the miner, the lady
of society, and the girl in the factory—they all find
in this remedy just what is required to keep the
system in proper working order.
Sluggish Liver —Biliousness
Indigestion—Constipation
caused by improper or too much food or drink, and
Headaches, etc., arising therefrom, are quickly banished
by a dose or two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They are a safe and reliable remedy sold at a
moderate price.
Dr. Morse*
u
tkliver
\jdt
PILLS
DANGEROUS
PARASITES
Worms Cause Havoc
in the System.
Worms arc parasites. That is, they live in
the body by absorbing digested food intendet
to nourish the body. 1 lie two commonest types
of worms found in human beings are Threat
Worms and Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat Worms or
Pin Worms) are most common. They are
about one-quarter of an inch long, resembling
a piece of thread. They live in the lowei
bowel in considerable numbers, particularly
in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach Worms)
are frequently found in humans, both adults
and children. They resemble earth worms in
shape and may grow to a length of twelve
inches. They inhabit the small intestines, but
may occasionally get into the stomach and be
vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them
form a tangled mass and impede the intestines.
All worms breed rapidly. Their eggs arc con-
tinually discharged in the waste matter and
may infect others. These eggs may be carried
by flics, on the hair of household pets, in raw
food, in drinking water or merely by contact
with earth in which they lie.
Symptoms.—The symptoms of worm infec-
tion are many and often obscure. Itching of
(he nose is the most common indication of pin
worms. Round worms may cause nausea,
upset or swollen stomach, desire to vomit,
voracious appetite and craving for strange
foods. Either type may result in diarrhoea,
restless sleep, grinding teeth, a bluish look
about the eyes, nervousness and irritability.
In children convulsions sometimes occur. The
danger to the person infected by worms is not
so much in the symptoms themselves as in
certain results which may follow. The continual
irritation of the digestive tract may cause
a number of digestive disorders. The strain
on the nervous system may also bring more
serious trouble. The general vitality is
lowered, the patient feels tired and weak,
(he natural safeguards of the body against
disease are lowered and grave ailments may
be contracted.
Many physicians now believe that worms
arc often a cause of appendicitis. It is
certain that worms are sometimes found in
the appendix.
Treatment. —For home treatment it is best
to use a specific medicine which will kill or
stupefy the worms and follow it with a laxa-
tive so that the worms and eggs will be ex-
pelled in the waste matter. Several treatments
should be taken to assure that any eggs which
may remain will not start the trouble anew.
Comstock’s “‘Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
made for just one purpose—to promote the
death of round and pin worms. A Specific
Medicine, they act on the worms only, and
can be given in. cases where the presence of
worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Go., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price
2/- per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
If writing, mention this paper.
MIRPIL
The Ideal Skin Lotion .
In addition to its excellent cooling and
soothing properties in cases of Windburn and
Sunburn, Mirpil has many other uses.
Smeared on the face and hands, it keeps
away mosquitoes.
Relieves sore and tired feet if rubbed on
the soles.
Provides comfort if applied to the face after
shaving.
An excellent powder base if rubbed in until
dry.
All chemists and leading stores, or will be
sent post paid upon receipt of postal notes
or stamps by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd,,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price, 2/6 per bottle.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
V*
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment,
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
S'
o
<,o
o
X 3
0
\P
0
&
*
° e
&
0°
v\V
v'
O'
e
\0
©
VO
\X
!**
>'' ,>
*«
s e
l>"
<s e
\\=
. \0
P*
v>
6\
O'
w 6
V
&
i*
N'
W' c '%o v o'
a' v S c
v° \*\ A*' vC .
wv VV
v\)°
nV'-’
c v


vPhat BAD NEWS
CAN BRING MORE ANGUISH
tAwyi tJl£.
o
r
lpt
l ui ta rad P
what is the mystery of teeth)
Why don’t our teeth last for a lifetime, like the
fingernails, the eyelashes, or the very bones themselves)
Why has Nature picked out our teeth as the weak spot
among civilised people)
Nobody seems to know why. But the fact remains
that very few people escape dental trouble, and a good
proportion of it is serious. Starting with bleeding gums
or other gum signals, things go from bad to worse until
we face the startling fact that four out of five adults
beyond forty actually have contracted the dread gum
disease known as Pyorrhea.
Pyorrhea does not develop suddenly
People are often inclined to regard Pyorrhea as a
distant danger—something that may happen to other folk
but not likely to touch them. That is why Pyorrhea is so
insidious in its attack. It works underground. The
infection begins at the “gum-line” and eats its way
downward. By the time the victim is aware she has
Pyorrhea it may have been definitely under way for
several years.
Once established, Pyorrhea cannot be cured by
Forhan’s or any other toothpaste. That is why you should
take immediate steps toward prevention. In other words
—get ahead of Pyorrhea trouble. See your dentist
regularly. Get his advise about Pyorrhea diagnosis and
treatment. You will probably find that he, like thousands
in the profession, uses Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astringent, an
ethical preparation for the sole use of Dentists and Dental
Surgeons.
O,
.
m
! -v"
m
im
j ’ r ' r t ‘i !* ” 7v ' iV 1 W ■ ;V'« , - 7
? ,«X $ V 5 i", */ / ! >, IB X H I ; ' i . jSM ; -
SIWIM Sfe >»;*; , / v x' 1 // * ? i
, // X* jhjitjilj «//k XX J }’ } ‘ iu !> ‘ ! X V;/"' i , ,,.x* j! 1 tt // X I :/ X X, X*;/v
. v
' 11 # I ip I i, <, i i fcg ■ I f 1 1 i|i I i v, I -
wimmimi
j ::U h‘‘ It it 1 , l! ‘hi : x i» j • , ‘ i ~
lihrMi **» ij®; /, '/ rtf; ! , : ? u I lit \ v f - c -»
• £
1, 1
}: .
f
%| v- ■ „*1
V , ?> & i'U Imw' 1 i', 1 ' ‘
’>•"' ~1 - ■
■...
w ■ ■
" • ( v WB f
...
$
■ a*;
, V '.i,
r
False teeth often follow Pyorrhea
which comes to 4 people out of
5 past the age of 40.
we
Use Forhans and me it faithfully
Don't wait for bleeding gums to give you a scare. Take up the
use of Forhan s Toothpaste in your home night and morning, and
~ I ✓
take it up deliberately and faithfully. Forhan s
Toothpaste is the finest we know how to make.
And yet there is no magic in Forhan’s; it
demands real attention on your own part.
Brush your teeth and massage your gums
according to directions.
Start with Forhan’s to-day you will
never regret this safeguarding of your teeth
and health.
Price, 2/-; Extra-large Tube, 3/-.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Forhan’s
for the gums
mwm'
ii
EG
MOO
A'fTK
mmm
mm.
eft3«
;
-»5« ■■
HAN CO
*6*
w •- Jaf
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE
IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
