

■' : mWMMmm
m.
.:■■■■
at
■ V :"v
« V
wm^m
hHH
iiwiiiiii
Photograph of the factory of the Sydney Glass Bottle Works in 1915 on the site of the
present plant (see photograph below).
SEE WHAT
YOU BUY
THE
GROWTH OF A GREAT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
GLASS
AN INDUSTRY WITH AN ANNUAL WAGE BILL OF
approximately £700,000
DIRECT EMPLOYMENT IS PROVIDED FOR OVER
4000 AUSTRALIAN WORKERS. ANOTHER
4000 WORKERS ARE INDIRECTLY EMPLOYED,
The Australian Glass
Manufacturers Co.,
Ltd., and its Asso-
ciated Companies
manufacture a
greater variety of
glassware than any
other company in
the world.
■
■
Hi
?V>.:
•>'
*&%s& ■„ w M&&-T* <> m
IP«S
’W
:
...
if
*
■> Mf
*
mm.
I m
m
■
- ;,
m
m
7
kv 1
-a... ■
%
■
Mi
kAbSHß^btti
■-.
r , >S
'. ' '' : ' ■
An aerial photograph of the Sydney factory of the Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd., 1936.
The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2946.
Not “Absolutely ” Free
Wednesday, July 29, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Jm
iIUiUS
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE • COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HER E AMI MAI I. _ _ _
Please send, vnthnut obligation, yow New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 GeOrge-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
“ALL THAT
SWAGGER”
As announced
in last week’s
Bulletin, the
winner of the
S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize for 1936 is All That
Swagger, by Miles Franklin, a magnifi-
cent novel presenting a sweeping pano-
rama of Australian life.
The story covers a century, ending in
1933, and is especially strong in char-
acters : one at least of its people—Danny
Delacy—seems certain to take a lasting
place in Australian literary tradition.
Other characters notably Danny’s
“brave Johanna” —are admirably pro-
jected people that readers will enjoy.
The writing itself adds considerably to
our best prose : it has a quality which,
as one of the judges commented, makes
a reader’s interest most alive in those
very parts that the mind inclines to slide
over in most novels.
The following interesting information
in respect to the MS. of All That Swagger
has been made available by the author;
Three people were asked to read the
first draft of this novel: (1) a chief of
the Australian press in London ; (2) a
widely-practised bush-lore-ist, who has
been writing on Australian bush life for
40 years; (3) Miss Alice Henry, who
lived 25 years in the U.S.A. and pub-
lished two sociological works there (one
by Appleton, the other by Doran). These
people were adjured to give public
critiques— not mere friendly puffs.
BUSH LORE-IST (passing upon first
draft) :
“It presents a vast canvas, State-wide,
and as long as history itself, in so far
as it concerns the portrayal of life and
development in this outpost of the British
Empire. The main interest is centred
upon the pioneer achievements in the
pastoral industry in New South Wales.
Other cardinal and collateral features,
complementally essential in such a
stupendous chronicle, are faithfully pre-
sented, and the work must prove of great
and immediate national value.
“Nothing so extensive and intensive
has hitherto been written [he means in
Australia]. Skill and circumstance (the
writer spent many years of her most
impressionable life on the land)
have prolifically combined in the pro-
duction. The writer moves living pieces
on the acre-squares of a mammoth
chessboard, and she plays the game
in a way that shows clearly that she un-
derstands the gambit of life and all its
variations.
“In the contemplation of the picture
the mind of the beholder is borne swiftly
back from the foreground, per air and
motor transport, to the old Abbott
buggy-and-pair relay in the middle dis-
tance. Thence by buckboard, sulky and
dray over the roadless, rugged way it
goes to the anterior horse and packsaddle
with its formidable but accommodating
hooks. And the sun rises and sets, and
the days go on and on, the dingo, howls,
the curlew wails ; the old Murrumbidgee
and the fortunes of the pioneers asso-
ciated with it, fluctuate from flood to
dead summer level-all is in natural pro-
gression.”
AUSTRALIAN PRESSMAN (opinion
on a rough draft) —
“Not so much a chronicle as an
archive.
“The book certainly leads one to en-
tertain a more hopeful view of the rela-
tion of aircraft to Australia than did
Helen Simpson’s The Woman on the
Beast.
“It well sets forth the tough and fibrous
courage of the men and women who
laid the bed-plates of Australia. Colonisa-
tion is not a combat, but a long-drawn
campaign. The primary characteristic
of the book is that it conveys, as few
Australian full-length novels do, the
actual passage of time —the long, labori-
ous days which stretch through sweat and
backache to a century of rewarding
years. The perspective is admirable.
“To praise the author for her pene-
trating familiarity with pioneer psy-
chology and her knowledge of horses —
and harness—is now a redundancy.
“Danny is notably well portrayed, and
stands out like a tussock ; so are “me
brave Johanna” and other salient char-
acters.
“Not only are the pioneering char-
acters well drawn ; the . author under-
stands the more flamboyant type of Cur-
rency Lass of to-day. An instance is
the cocksure, second-rate Adrienne: a
frequent Australian sample, with her
stained fingernails, inability to profit
by breeding or tradition, failure to get
her liaison into perspective as a mere
incident to Brian, upon whom she has
forced herself ; her belief that personal
pars, in the bilge columns of a half-
Americanised rag are criteria of success,
and her general ‘valor of ignorance.’
Brian bears out Helen Simpson’s pene-
trating diagnosis of Australian men (in
Boomerang ) as ‘God’s worst lovers,’ I
believe they are ; it is astonishing what
women will put up with!
“The fierce, blunt snobbery of the
‘rising families’ and the hostile self-
centredness of the Pure Merinos are well
indicated.
“The descriptions of scenery breathe
the living Australia.”
MISS ALICE HENRY (opinion on a
rough draft) :
“I congratulate you on a very fine
piece of work, and personally I am quite
satisfied.
“All That Swagger is very evidently
not the work of a youngster; in style
and writing, of course not, though some
have achieved their one and only style
at a bound. I meant specially in thought.
I felt the writer’s own experience of life
through it all the time.
“First, what the story means to me,
what I expect it to mean to the general
reader. The protagonist is a sort of im-
personal personality, and a twin at that:
Australia and Life. That impression is
strengthened, indeed is made the more
possible, by being carried through three
generations. When I came to reading the
last third of the story, I realised that that
was the medium in which your succes-
sion of characters were bound together
and were able to hold my attention . . .
I was so attached to Danny and his
Johanna that it was hard to lose them
and have these young people demanding
notice, but when Clare faced losing
Darcy I do not mind saying that I wept
profusely, a rare, rare thing with me.
The other is the climax of the air pilot.
That is an effective wind-up.
“You have an immense advantage over
Galsworthy, for instance, in the tremen-
dous and dramatic change in the mise en
scene during our first hundred years.
He had no background Comparable in
his London changing and changed.
“Your people are real, and character
is to me more than anything else. I
know Danny and Johanna as well as I
know you. Her gradually becoming
more self-centred and less attractive in
temper is tragically true of life, a sacri-
fice, as she was, on the altar of the young
nation. Your'wealth of description is
worthy of the lovely district you revel
in.”
* * * *
MISS ALICE HENRY (later—upon
reading the revised version) :
“I have finished reading the book,
reading it as I would read printers’ proof.
I’m delighted with it. It really now tells
your story, which, before, it hardly
achieved. You have put such finish into
the form and wording, and such deli-
cacy and minuteness of treatment into
the characterisation. Your opening is
perfect.”
*** , *
The manuscript of All That Swagger
was also read by several paid profes-
sional readers in London (in rough
draft).
MILES FRANKLIN (a note on one
point of criticism) :
“I am grateful to one reader of this
MS. who complained that too much pro-
minence is given to childbedring. It
wearied him. This shows that the effect
of real life has been achieved. No doubt
every old pioneer mother would have
cordially agreed as each year found her
in heaviness and weariness enlarging her
brood until it reached a dozen, or seven-
teen, or a score ; but in those days there
was no redress. In a land sans serfs the
women not only bore but had to rear
and clothe, and frequently to educate,
their children. There was some drinking
in bars and belligerence and roystering
in mining camps, with carnal indulgence
with a few trulls to enliven the un-
attached men and make livelier tales', but
pioneering in this empty land was largely
and respectably carried forward by
women and children. It was a slow, un-
spectacular process demanding stoicism,
patience, heroism, fatigue, sheer passivity,
pain and childbearing, childbearing,
childbearing—above all, childbearing."
A Maoriland
Saga
John Guthrie's
first novel. The
Little Country,
drew from the
Manchester
“Guardian” the tribute “Here at last is
a good novel about New Zealand.” That
“at last,” alas! was only too well justi-
fied. We Maorilanders are a not un-
literary race ; we have as large a propor-
tion of prose-writers and poets as any
Australian State, as The Bulletin has
reason to know. But though, presum-
ably, we love our native land, we have
never, till John Guthrie came along, been
able to get steamed up about it to any
extent in fictional excursions. Writers
such as Pomare, Cowan and Drummond
have transcribed picturesque passages
from the long islands’ mythology and
turbulent early happenings, and Alfred
Saunders (who had the historian’s best
asset from the reader’s point of view,
being prejudiced and partial) found
material in politics for two fat tomes, but
none of the pre-Guthrie writers seems to
have realised that there is as much color
and romance and character in Maoriland
as in furrin parts. We’ve all pictured
ourselves as dully respectable persons
living in a drab country with a bleak
background.
In So They Began (Nelson; 7s. 6d.)
Guthrie explores again the terrain of his
Little Country, persisting in the innocent
pretence that New Plymouth is Paradise
Bay, that the capital is Wellingford, its
northern rival Auckbourne and the city
of the Canterbury Plains St. Christopher.
He tells the saga of the Essenden family.
It is typical. The first Essenden. by-
blow of a baronet’s heir and a village
girl, “came out” in the Currency Lass
as assistant cook, traded, married a
chief’s daughter, prospered. Three gen-
erations later his family stands as high
as any in the land. The adventures (the
book is crammed with ’em) seem sen-
sational, but such things did happen.
When the terrible Te Rauparaha (Guthrie
calls him Ruawhero) came prowling
down from the north, slaying and eating
all who stood in his path, it wasn't only
Maoris he made war against.
As the chronicle goes down the years
great figures appear—Selwyn, most heroic
of bishops ; Grey, in his powerful prime
and disappointed old age ; Seddon, roar-
ing at and being roared at by his beloved
West Coasters ; Samuel Butler, just estab-
lished in Mesopotamia station, not know-
ing a ewe from a wether or a mare from
a gelding, but a vast authority on litera-
ture and the arts ; other characters that
we’ve met or heard of but whom it would
be unfair to name—these people are
made to live again. There are pictures,
too, of the vastly differing countrysides
of Taranaki, Westland and Canterbury,
all painted in true colors. There’s humor
—plenty of it —and the best of the char-
acters are full of faults and the worst
have their virtues. Richard Essenden, old
Captain Wilton, Deb. Digwood and Mrs.
Nicholson have a Dickensish quaintness
in their flavor—but was there ever a
country where quaintnesses of character
have fuller scope than in Maoriland?
Congratulations to Mr. Guthrie on an-
other good New Zealand novel.
A.D. WYLIE.
“Bleak
Dawn’s”
Theme
Th e Red
Page’s review of
Sydney Tomholt’s
Bleak Dawn and
Other Plays
commented that
“the theme [of
"Bleak Dawn’ 1 ] —the obstinate love that
might make a woman want even a
brutish ex-husband back again—is of
doubtful quality.”
If this is intended to convey the mean-
ing that such a theme is too rare in
actual experience to be convincing, I,
and any other woman who isn’t too
inoculated with feminism to see things
as they are, must underline the opposite
point of view. The perhaps regrettable
complex that causes a female to adhere
emotionally to the male who sinks mental
or physical hobnails into her. is a car-
dinal fact of sex life, and as common
as mud. It goes back to the Stone Age,
and probably the pre-Stone Age, when
crude strength—not chivalrous considera-
tion and remembering to pass the salt—
roused and held Woman’s erotic in-
stincts, which were, of course, the in-
stincts of Nature, bent on securing a
type that could survive the cave lion and
other circumstances.
So the theme of "Bleak Dawn” is as
much a part of everyday experience as
death and the taxes.
Apart from this, the Red Page
review did full justice to a book of
plays which breaks nearly new ground
in Australian publishing, and should be
of especial interest to women by reason
of the author's sure and delicate handling
of feminine psychology.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Verse into
Books
Have publishers
sensed a public
waiting for Aus-
tralian books of
verse? Angus and
Robertson’s intention to publish later
this year Kenneth Mackenzie’s long
poem “Seasons” has already been men-
tioned here. One of the Lindsays is get-
ting together in London an anthology of
Australian verse at a publisher's request.
Lothian and Co., Melbourne, is publish-
ing some time before Christmas a book
of verse. Boundary Bend, by Edward
Harrington, with a foreword by E. J.
{Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
The Senior Store” “While I Live I’ll Grow’
ANTHONY-HORDERNS
AFTER SALE BARGAINS FOR MEN
■ ? !> v
>, /
/ V
■S
m
m
if
35 1- DRESSING GOWN
25
All Wool Tweed Dressing Gowns.
Tailored to fit comfortably. Grey,
Fawn, Blue-grey and fancy over-
check designs. Sizes 4 to 8. Order
without delay and save 10/-.
Price 35/-
After Sale Bargain Price . . 25/-
9/6 WINTER WEIGHT
PYJAMAS
86
Buy these cosy Pyjamas and save!
Made of soft, warm Flannelette in
our own workrooms. Assorted stripe
effects. Sizes for small, medium and
outsize men. Price, suit .... 9/6
After Sale Bargain Price, Suit, 8/6
19/6 ALL WOOL PULLOVERS
We’ve sold hundreds of these Pullovers
during the season. Now the remaining
stock must clear. A medium-weight All
Wool Fine-ribbed Cashmere knit.
Flannel-grey, Dove-grey, Navy-marle
and Fawn-marle. Narrow stripe on
neck and pockets. Sizes range from
fd
34 to 40 inches. Price 19/6
After Sale Bargain Price 15/-
25/- FANCY JACQUARD CARDIGAN
A practical Cardigan, popular with all
outdoor men because it wears extremely
well, and gives full measure of real
comfort when worn for work. All
Pure Merino Wool in a soft medium-
weight. Grey, Blue-grey and Fawn
tonings. Sizes range from 36in. to
196
42in. chest. Price 25/-
After Sale Bargain Price 19 6
Bargain follows bargain as each
day we release further remark-
able After Sale Bargains. For
instance, the Mercery on this
page is just what men need now.
It is of our standard quality, and
shillings may be saved by wise
purchasing now. Country people,
mail your orders. Complete
satisfaction is assureds
! m
\
# .
~7
41
15/6 FUR FELT HATS
126
Really splendid value for thrifty men!
Hats of pure Fur Felt which will retain
their smart appearance practically in-
definitely. With narrow or medium
width snap brims. Light Grey, Steel,
Slate, Fawn and Brown colours.
Price, each 15/6
After Sale Bargain Price 12/6
Better quality with medium brims and
silk-lined. Price 19/6
After Sale Bargain Price 15/6
4/6 MEN'S FANCY C'MERE HALF HOSE—ALL WOOL
It will pay thrifty men to stock up with these half hose while After Sale Bargain Prices
P ut V£U Vl £ ng stron S> pure Wool Cashmere, these half hose are very service-
able. Ihe feet are double woven to ensure wear. New designs in Grey, Brown or Navy,
len to 11 2 inch sizes. Price, pair .. . 4/6. After Sale Bargain Price, pair ... 3/11
6/6 MEN'S WOOL-COTTON U'WEAR —VERY WARM
Underwear made from Wool and Cotton that is strong and durable, which makes it
reliable for constant wash and wear. Undershirts with short sleeves and Underpants
to ankle. All garments have comfortable flat-lock seams. Sizes 34in. to 44in. chest or
waist. Medium weight. Price, garment .... 6/6. After Sale Bargain Price . .
Winter weight. Price - 7/6. After Sale Bargain Price .. .
Extra warm weight. Price 9/6. After Sale Bargain Price
4/9
3/11
4/9
5/11
. 7/6
6'6 MEN'S BEST FINISH ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
This Underwear is strong and serviceable for seasons of wear. It is All Wool in best m IM M
finish. Each garment is comfortable and full fitting in style. Undershirts with short XI/It
sleeves, Underpants to ankle. Sizes 34in. to 44in. chest or waist. Light weight. "K/
Price, garment . . 6/6. After Sale Bargain Price .... 4/1 1 "
T/ lg 1 nce > garment 10/6. After Sale Bargain Price, garment 7/6
e Mens Mercery-Ground Floor, George Street Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited,
Phone* M2401* ~
M 2401,
Day and Night,
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


\
if*
0
tf-ef mote. mvc&o
ifouAwurtt&y
Super Plume 2tU
*■ THE S POWER PETROL f
CIEAROm Mobiloil
PRACTICALLY 100% PURE LUBRICANT
Brady. It will contain a number of the
swinging rhymes which have appeared
during the last few years in The Bulle-
tin, and will be published in Australia
and England simultaneously.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
UE turned up in a white tie, which he
** explained as a “conventional gesture
appropriate to the presence of royalty,
some of my staunchest recruits having
been most illustrious crown-
stands.” The fancy knot in
his tail he described as a
“natural result of having
followed out the twirls and
twists of old Erskine of
Marr’s dancing round the
terminological mulberry
bush.”
“You seem in a pleasant frame of
mind,” I said. “For my part, the splen-
did prose in Ruaraidh Erskine of Marr’s
King Edward VII. and Some Other
Figures made me think of the loftiest
utterances in English prose-writing. Also
I thought that in these literary portraits
one had a true picture of people the
author knew personally—King Edward,
Gladstone, Rosebery, Parnell, Redmond,
Asquith, Balfour and the Lord Gran-
ville who in the war gave Walter Hines
Page lessons in diplomacy, though it is
the American who has had the publicity
and applause. I had thought,” I added,
“that this author had written of them
because he is one who has thought
deeply on life, of what men favorably
placed to be a pattern for mankind may
make of it, and contribute, or fail to
contribute, to the heritage we call civili-
sation. I had thought he had written of
them in illustration of that theme, and
not, as most write, to make yet another
book of repetitive biography.”
“Splendid!” he kindled admiringly.
“Little Lord Fauntleroy couldn’t have
said it better. Which, of course, is a
tribute to old Erskine of Marr’s infec-
tious style.”
“From your familiarity,” I said, “any-
one could think you knew Mr. Erskine
of Marr personally.”
“Know him?” he glowed. “Of course
I know him. I knew him when he used
to carve Latin mottoes on the beams of
that turret library of his”
“Here, hold on! ” I interrupted.
“Wasn’t that Montaigne ... centuries
ago?”
“Sir,” he flared warmly, “because you
occasionally eat nuts that is no warrant
for presuming a complete monopoly of
reincarnation. And the diction of Mon-
taigne is only one of old Ruaraidh’s per-
petuations. He revives as well the
method of Plutarch’s Lives and some-
thing of the sprightly phraseology of
Dr. Johnson, all in reduced stature, of
course.”
“I do wish you’d take that knot out
of your tail,” I pleaded. “It’s warping
your mind. Mr. Erskine of Marr seems
to me a most original writer. He knew
all these people quite well. He has
their measure to a ‘t.’ The personal
things he has to say of them are more
revealing, in my opinion, than a hun-
dredweight of documented biographies,
Instance the mere footnote of what
Edward VII. once said of the author.
‘Tell him,’ said King Edward, ‘that if
he and I had lived in former times I
would have had his head.’ Doesn’t that
tell you a great deal about both of
them? Or take his summing up on
Edward VII., that ‘nothing could be
plainer, nothing nearer truth, than that
his whole performance as a sovereign
was negligible.’ Compare that,” I in-
sisted, “with the findings of such writers
as Benson, and tell me which seems to
you the more honest!”
“What have I ever done to you,” he
exclaimed with a swish, “that I should
be stigmatised as an authority on
honesty? I wish you’d stick to the vir-
tues. My own opinion of old Ruaraidh,
if you want it, is that he thinks in
Gaelic and writes in circles. But, apart
from that, he’s a confounded nuisance.
Can’t you see what his debunking of
Edward means to me ? When the Hades
League of True Patriots hear of it we
won’t be able to hold them. And take
these remarks of his: ‘Still, so long as
wave shall beat on shore, and that, I
suppose, is long enough for any taste,
the name of Charles Stewart Parnell will
occur with honor in the annals of his
native land.’ Can’t you realise the cele-
brations that’s going to cause in the
Green Wing? They’ll crack every hob in
the place. They’ll deafen us with their
preposterous poetry. It’ll take us 47
lengths of eternity to repair the damage.
“No,” he insisted. “It’s all very well
for you to put his work on your shelf
for re-reading, but I can tell you he
makes me gaze into the future. What
I see there bears a strong resemblance to
Ruaraidh Erskine of Marr. He appears
to be wearing a blistered kilt.”
* * * *
He uttered this with such warmth of
prophetic conviction that to cool him 1
jocularly recalled having myself once
seen a Scot with his kilt on fire.
“I remember the occasion well,” he
commented. “It was in a pillbox to the
left of Menin Road, and your friend
passed some injudicious remarks with
sanguinary reference to my private
address. Did you know,” he sparkled
more brightly, “that the rum in that
petrol-tin you heroes found there was
three-parts petrol?”
“So that accounts for it!” I said, and
asked: “You had a look at the Passchen-
daele stunt, then?”
“Look at it?” he exclaimed. “My dear
ex-sapper, I conducted it. A pretty good
show, if I may say so.”
“Anyway,” I said thankfully, “that’s
all past and done with. As R. H. Mot-
tram tells us in his Journey to the
Western Front, only for the memorials
and the like you’d never know there’d
been a war there. Mr. Mottram, of
course, is very well qualified to write
such a book. He was at the war for
years and knows what the place looked
like then. He’s able to recall that in
contrast to what it all looks like now.
He knows the legends that were part of
our life there, and how skilfully he uses
them to conjure up the picture again!
Instance his depiction of the place where
the Germans captured one of our gal-
lant allies the”
“Steady!” he flashed warningly. “The
Consul’s a regular reader of your paper.”
“Well, then, where they captured that
fellow and stripped him naked and wrote
on his back. The menagerie is full,’ and
returned him uninjured—according to
Mr. Mottram that place to-day’s all smil-
ing fields, starred with poppies. The
towns we knew as heaps of rubble are
rebuilt again, spanking new. The peas-
antry are settled back into their age-
old business of tillage. In effect, what
Mr. Mottram really points out is some-
thing that in its egotism mankind is
usually inclined to overlook —that is, the
enormous power that nature has - to
smooth over and cause in a little time
completely to vanish whatever efforts
mankind may ever make in destructive-
ness.”
“Easy on!” he exploded. “You’ll be
spilling over into the Various Verse
column next, and there’s only standing
room in the- Poets’ Wing as it is. Person-
ally, of course, 1 like this chap Mottram.
He’d like to be smug and say he didn’t,
but 1 happen to know he enjoyed the
war quite a lot. You can gather that,
surely, from his frequent reference to
those rightly celebrated heroines of the
war you all admired so much.”
“You mean the nurses, the Waacs
and so forth,” I agreed. “Of course we
did admire the part they took in that
frightful adventure, nursing in the hos-
pitals, driving lorries”
“Rubbish,” he interrupted sharply.
“You know quite well I mean Mademoi-
selle from Armentieres.”
“You said ‘heroines,’ ” I retorted. “She
was only one; as Mr. Mottram points
out, a mere figure of song, a myth”
“O.K. with me, boy,” he said. “I
know that’s Mottram’s yarn. If it’s
yours, too, stick to it.”
C.M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION ...
Duet for Female Voices: Sarah Cam-
pion (Peter Davies ; 7s. 6d.). Background
is Germany, from war-time down to Nazi
dictatorship ; characters a German-Jew-
ish girl and an English damsel. English
damsel loves German communist; he's
assassinated by Nazis; German girl
marries an “Aryan” prof.; she’s
murdered by Nazis. What the ladies
thought and talked about fills up the
pages. Neither their conversation nor
mental processes were worth recording.
So They Began: John Guthrie
(Nelson ; 7s. 6d.). See p. 2, “A Maori-
land Saga.”
Plunge - into Life: Louis de Wohl
(Harrap ; 7s. 6d. net). Newly-divorced
young wife entrains to find that her ex-
husband —extremely fond of her—has
booked the top bunk ; hard-hitting young
conductor to the rescue ; loses his job on
that account; becomes her servant; they
enter a fantastic Swiss psychology sana-
torium ; private detective enters with
them; sundry surprising developments.
Bright, unusual, light entertainment.
Return of a Heroine: Marguerite
Steen (Gollancz ; 7s. 6d.). Good study
and novel development in the main char-
acter—a girl out after a two years’ sen-
tence for having ended her mother's
misery from an incurable disease by
poisoning the old lady—but the amount
of Smalltalk padding that ekes it out is,
from the author of Stallion and Matador,
unbelievably tedious.
The Queens Doctor : Robert Neumann
(Gollancz ; 8s. 6d. net). Rise of a mes-
merist doctor to control in the Court of
Christian the Mad of Denmark; the
Queen’s illicit intimacy with him ; his
temporary rule as dictator of the coun-
try ; his fall. Nobody really comes to
life, but they’re a colorful lot of puppets,
and the novel’s better than most.
ESSAYS . . .
King Edward VII. and Some Other
Figures: Ruaraidh Erskine of Marr
(Dent; 8s. 6d. net). Biographical essays
are rarely so good as these arresting “por-
traits” in fine prose. The book is beauti-
fully made.
As I Was Saying :. G. K. Chesterton
(Methuen; from Angus and Robertson :
7s. 6d.). Collection of characteristically
brilliant commentaries, just seen into
print at the time the author died, and —
what so many things that pass as essays
are not—packed tight with original
thought and expression. Writing that is—
as Chesterton in his essays always was —
a pleasure to read.
GENERAL ...
Journey to the Western Front: R. H.
Mottram (Bell; Angus and Robertson ;
9s. 6d.). The author of The Spanish
Farm revisits the old battlefields and
describes the change. Admirably done.
Germany's War Machine: Albert
Muller (Dent; 7s. 6d. net). Described as
“a factual account of Germany’s plans
for war,” specially emphasising “motor-
ising” of the army. In tone it’s another
of those books that contribute so much
towards encouraging the goodwill and
general amity, that prevail everywhere in
the world to-day.
Various Verse
Madrigal.
Laughing, weeping, questioning,
Make the sum of living;
So we laugh until we cry,
Cry until we wonder why,
Wonder why until we die,
Laughing,
Weeping,
Questioning.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Winterlight.
Oft have I seen at evening by the lake
The swans sail past the willow-hooded boat,
Where broken light and spreading ripples make
A comet-train behind them as they float.
I have absorbed great artistry; song has
wrought
Its magic upon me; often I have come
Out of a trance of passionate reading fraught
With power of vision to draw the faint hills
home.
These and their company take me, magic,
immense;
Yet in the morning equivalent wonders un-
fold
When the sun pours through the breaks in a
paling fence
To stencil a frosted pavement with jagged
gold.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Hawshoo.
I hate to have to say
Horseshoe,
Don’t you?
What is the way?
If you divide the two,
Horse-dash-shoe,
Pausing in between,
You feel such a precisian,
So prism ic and prunesian—
See what I mean?
And, at the best,
Suggest
That dreary dog
The pedagogue.
While if you run the sounds together—
Hciwshshoo, you know —
They seem to seethe and slither,
So—
(Strike me pink!)
So effervescent.
Somehow it isn’t
Decent,
Don’t you think?
So after all what do I do?
Though not at all the thing,
In fact a shocking fault,
A foul assault
On the long-suffering English of the King,
I say it as 1 please—
Just haw shoo, like a sneeze —
And so do you.
MAORILAND.
ANOLD EALL.
Farm Morning.
The stable yawns as empty as a husk;
Smelling of hay and warm yet from the
night.
The door stands wide, and in and out its dusk
The sparrows- forage, chirping with delight.
With manes a-ripplc in the rising sun,
The plough teams have departed, one by one.
Down in the stackyard cocks crow silverly;
And little pigs—black darlings of the earth—
Their brown eyes bright with youth’s brave
joyousness,
Nuzzle the flanks of her that gave them birth.
Or play aimong the straw, and heave and
press
Against each other’s shoulders, their jet tails
Curled tight in imitation of their sire,
Who stares at them beyond the grey sliprails,
His slant eyes truculent. Beneath a briar
A hen has laid an egg of dazzling pearl
Among the thin, sweet grass; and now she
goes
Triumphantly, her voice raised in a skirl
Of cackling, her comb red as a rose.
The windmill makes reed whispers as the fans
Spin round like shining petals of a flower,
While from the dairy comes the chime of pans
In aftermath of milking’s dewy hour;
And over paddocks, silken yet with mist,
To music of their bells, the cattle trail,
AH heading out to where the amethyst
Of distant hills glows beautiful and frail!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


Good Luck!
There can be nothing but good luck when
you drink a good spirit, and there is none
better than
MILNE’S
STANDARD MALT WHISKY
GUARANTEED PURE
POT STILLED
Ist PRIZE CENTENARY SHOW
No primage or exchange, duty about
half that of imported whiskies
HENCE THE PRICE
6d. a nip. 7*9 per bottle
in Metropolitan Area,
Country Slightly Higher .
Agents:
CAWSEY MENCK I. & S. LTD.
447 Kent Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
mm
HH
.
ilii
■ i
Ml
' :
■■■■.
Spsc/Auy Sa£cro
BShI I , -y- x':-: M ' . . .
11, <■■
MHI
AUSTRALIAN
i ■
M*
V IS OyAftAK-TgfcD
>c° distil .E
.JH
H
■**“ :o%


i
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
M
2
An Idea of Portion ef One of the Vast Storage Cellars.
v me
efwie


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2946.
July 29, 1936.
NOT “ABSOLUTELY” FREE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.'
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
THE POLITICS OF IT.
The political Sports Who Lost the Taxpayers’ Tin
recovered their spirits to some extent after the first
shock of the Privy Council judgment in James v. the
Commonwealth. “We must have a referendum!”
shouted Premier Dunstan, of Victoria. “Referen-
dum!” echoed N. S. Wales Premier Stevens from
Somewhere-in-England, and Commonwealth Attorney-
General Menzies from Somewhere-on-the-High Seas
—the latter with rather less assurance, for he argued
unsuccessfully in London against convictions expressed
in Australia, and he must be feeling his position
keenly. Somebody mentioned that a referen-
dum would cost £lOO,OOO to £120,000; but
what’s £lOO,OOO to £120,000 to a Government which
can blow away a trade worth £15,000,000 p.a. with
one expulsion of hot air?
“We will have to make up our minds on this
question as soon as possible,” cried the Prime Minister.
So Cabinet was assembled immediately—not, of
course, in Canberra but in Melbourne. At the end
of the week its members had scattered again, having
failed to make up what the Prime Minister was pleased
to call their minds.
A January or February referendum was talked
of. There will be none. For one thing, the Govern-
ments in three States —and four would have to be
carried —are unsympathetic, to say the least. Even
if some hitherto-concealed genius invented a formula
that overcame their objections, and if all the parties
recommended it to the people, the people would
reject it. The average elector would see through the
smoke-screens that would be raised and say to him-
self (and herself) “Here I am asked to vote away one
of my few remaining rights so that boards set up by
politicians subservient to powerful, interests may
charge me what they like for the necessaries of life.
I won’t do it.” And defeat at the referendum \Vould
tell most against the Ministerial parties, which,
referendum or no referendum, will have to go to the
country in 1937. That consideration alone will restrain
most of the gentlemen who were so valiant at the
beginning of last week.
An English newspaper comment on the Privy Coun-
cil judgment is that “Australia, like the United States,
is discovering the disadvantages of written Constitu-
tions.” Actually, it discovered these disadvantages
long ago. It has known for quarter of a century that,
with so many authorities making laws, and so many
others issuing edicts having the force of law, and so
many Constitutions to interpret (for “the High Court
is not only the guardian of the Federal Constitution
but the guardian of the Constitutions of the several
States”), it is necessary to seek constitutional inter-
pretations from time to time, and that the interpre-
tations are apt to change with the composition of the
courts. Sometimes they change because Justices
change their opinions. For example, Isaacs, J., said in
1916 of Section 92 that it was “beyond the power of
any State Parliament, or even of the Commonwealth
Parliament, to impair that fundamental provision” ;
and he said in 1920 that “the true office of Section
92 is to protect inter-State trade against State inter-
ferences, and not to affect the legislative power of
the Commonwealth.”
Even this Privy Council judgment is not exempt
from the distressing lack of finality that characterises
the whole business. The Law Lords have indeed
ruled that Section 92 means what it says (“Trade,
commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean
navigation, shall be absolutely free”), but they
have by no means gone as far as Quick
and Garran, who wrote in their “Commentaries’
that “freedom of trade, commerce and inter-
course” covered not only “the right to introduce
goods, wares and merchandise from one State into
another,” and “the right to sell the same,” but also
“the right to travel unburdened by State restrictions,
regulations or obstructions.” Their Honors left that
point undetermined. Before the James judgment was
delivered, the Privy Council refused leave to appeal in
a case in which it was pleaded that “the right to travel
unburdened by State restrictions, regulations or
obstructions” had been denied. And now we find the
Melbourne Government cancelling the licenses of
“hauliers” carrying goods from Victoria to the
Riverina, which is in N. S. Wales, and from the
Riverina to Victoria. .
In well-ordered countries like Britain, Maonland
and South Africa, Parliament has full powers in
respect of trade, commerce and transport. But only
one Parliament. Australia supports seven, and the
central and provincial Legislatures have concurrent
powers ; there are also seven Taxation Departments
(not counting the Customs), seven wage-fixing systems
and Transport Boards all over the place. Some day
Australians will grant full powers to one Parliament;
but not until they are convinced that one Parliament
can be trusted with them, and that the change will
mean a rebirth of freedom, not one more cheerless
extension of the authority of the State over the citizen.
Meanwhile it is a relief to learn that there is at least
one region in which the people have rights which—
however imperfectly defined —no politician or jack-in-
office can take away.
The Law of It.
[This article was written by a contributor well qualified
to expound the law.]
Dr. Earle Page, who, with Premier Stevens (N.S.W.)
and Premier Forgan Smith (Q.), looked in on the
Privy Council while Attorney-General Menzies was
trying to convince the Law Lords that Section 92
did not bind the Commonwealth, has announced by
cable from Germany or thereabouts that the judg-
ment is an “exceedingly involved document.” No
doubt it is unpleasant reading for Dr. Page and his
friends. But its main point should be quite plain
even to a touring politician: the Commonwealth
Parliament and Government, like the States and every-
one else, must obey Section 92 and leave inter-State
trade “absolutely free.”
The Privy Council judgment will have to be some-
what elaborate because the Commonwealth has caused
Section 92 to be buried alive for nearly 15 years. In
1920 Justices Knox, Isaacs, Higgins, Rich and Starke
declared that the Commonwealth need not obey it—
only the States were bound. Now the Privy Council
has affirmed the contrary view, thus expressed by
Justices Evatt and McTiernan in James's appeal:
We are definitely of opinion that Section 92 lays
down a general rule of economic freedom, and neces-
sarily binds all persons and authorities within the Com-
monwealth, including the Commonwealth itself, because,
as was pointed out by the Privy Council, it establishes a
system based on the absolute freedom of trade among
the States.
According to the same two Justices;
The system of absolute freetrade was always sup-
posed to be a foundational provision of the Constitu-
tion, and the obtaining of it was one of the leading
motives which led to the Federal union.
How is it that for so many years the Common-
wealth has succeeded in remaining exempt from the
leading provision of the Constitution? The argument
is something of a legal mystery, but it runs in this way.
Section 51 gives the Commonwealth Parliament power
to legislate in relation to “trade and commerce among
the States.” .Section 92 says that “trade and com-
merce among the States... .shall be absolutely free.”
But trade and commerce cannot be regulated and abso-
lutely free at the same time; therefore the Common-
wealth Parliament is not bound by Section 92.
The fallacies of this type of argument are not hard
to discover. For one thing, absolute trade freedom
does not mean that trade shall not be regulated at
all ; if not regulated, trade could never be carried on.
For another, the Commonwealth’s legislative power in
.Section 51 has been given to it “subject to the Con-
stitution,” and therefore subject to Section 92.
The Privy Council has now finally said that there
is no real conflict between the regulation of inter-
state trade and keeping that trade free. It has said
that the Commonwealth and each of the States
may legislate on inter-State trade provided they do
not restrict its absolute freedom. What scope for
legislative activity on inter-State trade will be left to
the seven Legislatures remains to be seen. It will
be reasonably extensive, because the Privy Council,
has somewhat narrowed the application of Section 92
in comparison with the application given to it by
the High Court in the McArthur ruling of 1920.
There is small reason to hope that the restrictions
upon inter-State carriage laid down in Transport
Acts will be affected, although each case may have
to be investigated according to its special circum-
stances and conditions. •
The great achievement of the James decision is
that for the future the Commonwealth and the States
will start off scratch, since both will be subject
to the decisions of the High Court upon the meaning
of the Great Constitutional Charter of Australian
Economic Freedom. Inter-State freetrade and a uniform
customs tariff against the world are essential features
of every true Federal system of government. This
was fully appreciated by the founders of our Federa-
tion, who knew that the Commonwealth and the
States would all have to submit to the High Court
rulings on Section 92. As Deakin said:
Federation will not be genuine unless there is a
federation of tariffs on the seaboard—unless we have
one common Australian tariff against the world and
absolute freetrade within our own borders. A com-
mon tariff on the seaboard means absolute freetrade
within all parts of the Australian colonies.
And Barton said much the same thing:
Protectionists and Freetraders alike avow their con-
viction that one of the first benefits and one of the
eternal benefits of Federation —one of those things
without which it cannot be—is inter-State freetrade.
What the Australian people will have to consider
is whether Federation could continue if the Com-
monwealth were allowed to destroy what Edmund
Barton and the other founders of the Federal system
knew to be its essential and eternal features.
The Hush-hush Government.
One of the parties to the trade war which should
never have been started, and which will have to be
settled forthwith in the interests of both, is called the
Japanese Empire, the other the Australian Common-
wealth. A foreigner writing the history of the unhappy
affair would have cause to wonder which is the Com-
monwealth and which the Empire. For, while material
information has been furnished by so-called imperial-
ists, it has been denied by so-called democrats, and
this “hush-hush” policy has been followed and cham-
pioned by a “democratic” press. From Japanese
journals which have reached Australia and from the
files of Australia’s Great Dailies the following story
has been pieced together, editorial comment on both
sides having been wholly disregarded.
In the early part of 1934 the Lyons Government
sent the gentleman who was its Minister for External
Affairs and is now Chief Justice of the High Court
to Asiatic countries at the head of a Goodwill Mis-
sion. He reached Japan in May, and, according to
a Japanese Foreign Office statement, his presence
“gave us an opportunity of proposing to negotiate a
treaty of commerce which we had long desired to
conclude. Our proposal was accepted.” In a speech
broadcast from Tokio, Mr. Latham said that, “though
a part of the British Empire, Australia realises that
it is a nation of the Eastern Hemisphere,” adding
that he would ask his Government “to treat the nego-
tiations with as great expedition as possible.”
Negotiations were begun in Australia in
February, 1935. This is the Japanese version:
Wc submitted a draft treaty covering a customs
convention, the questions of exchange compensation
tax, import prohibition and restriction, and other
general matters of trade. But soon the negotiations
had to be suspended on account of the sudden depar-
ture for England of the Australian Minister of Com-
mercial Treaties.
Mr. Gullett had joined the King’s jubilee pilgrim-
age, along with Mr. Lyons, Mr. Menzies, Mr. Thorby,
secretaries, tariff experts, typists and the rest. While
there he helped to secure the great meat-export
quota —a thing of such immense significance that when
one of the biggest exporters was asked the other day
for the figures he said he didn’t know them and had
never taken any notice of them, since it was a certainty
from the beginning that the quota could not be filled.
The Minister for No Trade Treaties descended on
the Continent to continue “negotiations initiated previ-
ously with Belgium, France, Germany, Czecho-
slovakia, Poland and Switzerland,” which had borne
no fruit when he returned to Australia after nine and
a half months and have borne none since.
The negotiations with Japan, suspended for 11
months, were resumed in January, 1936. They made
“fair progress,” but on February 20
The Australian chief representative abruptly told the
Consul-General at Sydney that his Government would
put high specific duties on cotton and artificial-silk
piece goods, because, owing to the too-low prices of
Japanese goods, the customs revenues from the existing
ad valorem duties were decreasing.
Actually, customs receipts from all sources were
soaring above the Treasurer’s estimates (customs and
excise revenue for the full year exceeded the estimate
of £37,850,000 by £3,587,000, transforming the anti-
cipated financial surplus of £17,000 into £3,562,500),
but Mr. Gullett can-scarcely have dwelt on that. Nor
were Australian woolgrowers told what was going on.
Japanese woolbuyers were kept fully informed, with
the result that in the March-May quarter they bought
203,736 bales of Australian wool—nearly as much
as the British, whose purchases were 205,000 bales.
In the corresponding period of 1935 the British had
bought 339,000 bales, the Japanese 201,000 bales.
On March 10 Canberra asked Tokio “to limit
voluntarily annual export of cotton and artificial-silk
goods to 30,000,000 square yards and 25,000,000 square
yards respectively, upon which condition Australia
would modify the imposition of high specific duties.”
Japan considered it “advisable to take some action
relative to the sudden fall in price of artificial-silk
piece goods, which seemed to be the main point of
Australian complaint.” So it “raised the price of arti-
ficial silk by imposing a high export control fee on
goods shipped to Australia,” and, “in accordance with
the Australian wish,” it “stopped taking new orders
for some time to prevent speculative importation.
Of these very important features of the controversy
our Government, has told the people nothing.
But Canberra insisted on quantitative restriction.
On April 4 it informed Tokio that unless this was dis-
cussed it “would impose such duties as would be high
enough to restrict the import quantities of these
goods.” Tokio replied that, while agreeable to further
discussion, it “could not agree to any quantitative
restriction on cotton piece goods in the absence of any
grounds for it, such as a fall in price,” but in respect
of artificial silk goods it would discuss price-control.
On April 27 the Australian Government replied
that it could not accept this basis of discussion. On
May 22, while members were packing up, it introduced
the tariff schedules which led straightway to the
strangling of its country’s immensely important trade
with Japan and its very useful trade with Manchukuo.
This Foreign Office statement was issued to the
Japanese press on June 25. In the Japan “Times
and Mail” of that date it occupies 29 column-inches.
All that Australians learned about it was conveyed
in a one-inch “summary,” published in the morning
newspapers on June 27 and attributed to the London
“Times” correspondent. So with. Japan’s retaliatory
ordinances published in the “Official Gazette” at 8
a.m. on June 25 ; on June 27 the Sydney Herald
announced that “the Commonwealth Government'’
was “still without official advices, and will not con-
sider what further action should be taken until full
details of the Japanese action has been received.
Even on June 30 the Government had “not yet received
full details of the ordinances.” Yet it has a Trade
Commissioner in Tokio. U.A.P. newspapers have their
own correspondents there. And the difference in time
is one hour —midnight in Tokio is 1 a.m. in Sydney.
Now that a vast amount of mischief has been
done, the negotiations broken off in May are to be
renewed with all restrictions operating. It was Mr.
Lyons who issued the invitation, and he procrastinated
until the new wool season was about to open in other
words, until the other party was in a position to exert
the greatest amount of pressure. The Japanese have
completely outmanoeuvred our dawdling and blunder-
ing Government, which seems to be efficient only in
concealing from Parliament and the people facts which
they have every right to know.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bruce, P.M.?
Mr. Bruce has been abroad as “Australian Minister
in London” and then High Commissioner for four
years. He will not remain High Commissioner much
longer, nor is he likely to return to Australian public
life.
Canada gave a Prime Minister to Britain. Mr.
Bruce’s prospects of winning the honor for his native
country seem as good as those with which Mr. Bonar
Law set out.
Mr. Bonar Law entered the House of Commons
in 1900 at the age of 42. Within 11 years he was
leader of the Opposition, and in 1922 he formed his
own Government. Had the war not intervened he
would almost certainly have had this privilege five
or six years earlier, for the tide of Liberalism was
running out in 1914.
As a Cambridge man who rowed in the winning
boat against Oxford, and as a veteran of Kitchener’s
Army, Mr. Bruce makes a strong appeal to two influen-
tial British sections. The success of the conversion loans
he has arranged shows how he is regarded in the City,
immensely alarmed by the events of 1931-32. He
has impressed all sections by the qualities he
exhibited as president of the League Council during
the gravest twelvemonth the League has ever passed
through, and as president of the international con-
ference which gracefully agreed to grant the Turks
what they could (and would) have taken without
permission—the right of refortifying Gallipoli and
the Dardanelles and of controlling in time of war
the passage of warships entering and leaving the
Black Sea. On the subject of this surrender Aus-
tralians are far from being as enthusiastic as British
editors pretend to be, but they have observed that
compliments were rained by the negotiators on
their chairman.
Mr. Bruce became M.P. on May 11, 1918 (being
then 35), and Prime Minister on February 9, 1923.
Can he repeat the performance in Britain? Not,
perhaps, in five years, but he may by 1943 or 1944.
Mr. Baldwin is just on 69, and nearly done. Of
his very uninspiring Ministers, Mr. Chamberlain is
the most likely to succeed him. But Mr. Chamberlain
looks just the sort of man to last for two or three
years and then lose an election by a small and uncer-
tain majority to the Labor party that always makes
a mess of things. Just the sort of man likewise to
take his defeat to heart and step aside for a new man
of whom everybody speaks well.
According to “S. M. Herald,” “a wide choice of
House of Commons seats has been offered to Mr.
Bruce” ; also “a short path to Ministerial office.” It
is probably true ; Granny’s London information is
pretty good, as was shown when she somersaulted on
the “sanctions” issue. Incidentally, the old girl now
sees merits in Mr. Bruce which she failed to discern
three years ago, when The Bulletin, realising that
Australia would need leadership that it was not likely
to get from Mr. Lyons, estimable as he is, suggested
that the U.A.P. should bring him back.
The Place Parkhill Forgot.
Canberra was mildly stirred by Mr. ParkhiU’s appeal
to private employers to encourage the youth of the
country to take an interest in militia training—till
somebody remembered with a chuckle that there is
no such training in Canberra. Soon the whole place
was chuckling.
There are 2000 men of military age at Canberra
—enough for two battalions. The Commonwealth
Government employs nine-tenths of them. Thus it
could set the best of examples to the community
instead of setting the worst. Yet the secretary of
the Defence Department used to be secretary of the
Prime Minister’s Department.
Some of these days someone will have to call
Ministers together and remind them that Canberra
has cost £12,000,000, and now has a population of
10,000 or so. If he can’t assemble the lot he might
collect three. Mr. Parkhill he might apprise of the
non-existence of a local A.M.F. unit. Mr. McLachlan
could be asked to tell his Post Office, when it has to
address letters to wireless listeners and the like, that
Canberra is not in N. S. Wales. And Mr. Paterson
should be bidden to remember that, as Minister for
the Interior, he is nominally in charge of the adminis-
tration of the F.G.T., and is expected to take an
intelligent interest in it. Except when Parliament ■is
sitting he can seldom be found there.
Praise from Mr. Bussau.
A. L. Bussau, who looks after transport matters for
the Melbourne Government when he can find the
time —he is Attorney-General, Solicitor-General and
Vice-President of the Land and Works Board as well
—has been praising N. S. Wales transport-strangu-
lation methods.
In 1932 losses on the railways in that State
amounted to £4,500,000. It is forecast that the N.S.W.
railway budget will be balanced next year.
Balanced it may be if present book-keeping
methods are followed. But in N. S. Wales £BOO,OOO
of tax-money is included as railway revenue, and the
interest and exchange bill has been greatly reduced
by the Bruce conversions (in 1931-32 it was £7,832,700
and in 1934-35 £6,520,500, and there have been further
reductions since). Also, the department is getting the
use of millions of loan money free of interest for
‘reconditioning,” and the Auditor-General annually
reports that “insufficient provision has been made
for depreciation and renewals,” and no provision at
all is made for rates and taxes. And road competitors
who do pay rates and taxes are smitten with other
imposts, such as “Id. per passenger-mile and 3d. per
ton per mile” —designed to be “prohibitive,” as Mr.
Bussau admitted.
Under such conditions, with a good season swell-
ing freights, a bellman could “balance the railway
budget.”
Mr. Bussau was trying to defend his Govern-
ment’s refusal to renew the licenses of the Riverina
"hauliers,” who carry goods and merchandise valued
at £1,250,000 a year —one concern alone employs 85
drivers. He will need much stronger arguments for
an arbitrary exercise of authority which must now
be regarded as doubtfully constitutional.
State Socialism's Hopeless War.
As Mrs. Partington strove to push away the Atlantic
Ocean, politicians and bureaucrats try to stem the
tide of modern scientific transport in Australia.
It can’t be done. Much may be —much has been
and is being—accomplished to cause inconvenience,
irritation and loss. Heavy penalties are imposed upon
motor transport for “the protection of the railways,”
and all sorts of inhibitions and restrictions are inflicted
in the sacred name of the law. Strangulation (called
regulation) boards operate more or less in every State
and issue orders that traffic must move from the roads
to the railways. All to no purpose.
In the ten years to June, 1935, the population of
Australia increased by 824,377, or 14 p.c., and 2265
additional miles of railway were opened. With all
this extra provision passengers’ journeys were:
1924-25 370,346,170
1934-35 355,996,910
Decrease 14,349,260
Per 100 of population the decline was from 6300 to
5311 —a virtual drop in passenger traffic of 16 p.c.
Production in the decade swelled in volume.
Wool went up 230,000,0001 b., butter 138,000,0001 b. ;
there were advances in output of practically every-
thing except coal, which was about stationary. With
all this additional merchandise available for freightage,
and with 824,000 more people to serve, the business
of the railways as carriers of merchandise and live-
stock slumped like this:
Tons.
1924-25 37,984,990
1934-35 29,909,097
Decrease 8,075,893
The shrinkage per 100 of population was from
646 tons to 446 tons, equal to 31 p.c. The service of
the railways to the people in 1934-35 was not much
more than two-thirds of what was given ten years
earlier.
While railway traffic thus slumped, the require-
ments of the population were met by modern science.
Registrations of motor vehicles:
1924-25 305,639
1934-35 688,450
Increase 382,811
Petrol-driven transport advanced 125 p.c. The
number of vehicles on the road went from five to 10
per 100 of the population. Civil aircraft also was
doing its part. The number of flights increased from
1617 in the December quarter of 1925 to 35,191 in
the parallel months of last year; hours flown were
1670 and 13,739 respectively; the approximate mile-
age covered increased from 126,364 to 1,259,893 ;
passengers carried, from 2043 to 16,335; goods, from
14,0541 b. to 88,4751 b.
Fees charged by Governments to motorists in-
creased from £1,400,000 to £5,000,000, irrespective
of drastic heavy-vehicle taxes and petrol duties absorb-
ing several more millions per annum. The period
was marked by a sustained attack upon users of
motors for commercial purposes, as if these people
were enemies instead of friends of the people they
served. But although the attackers are able to inflict
grievous injury and injustice, the tide sweeps along.
Traffic continues to leave the railways for the roads.
And all the regulations that can be devised and oper-
ated will not stop this movement.
Wages and Wages.
Stewart, M.H.R., who sometimes says things worth
listening to, was a bit astray in a comparison he made
last week. Saying that the “market value of industrial
investments had enhanced by 43 p.c. since 1929,” he
coupled it with a statement that the basic wage had
in the same time declined by 15 p.c.
Ignoring the fact that the N. S. Wales Statistician
shows the general level of share-prices now to be about
even with the peak of 1929 (certainly not up anything
like 43 p.c.), high prices for shares, as at present,
mean low interest income, which is the wage of
capital. Though some dividends are up, the average
is still well below 1929 levels. Bank interest rates,
which are somewhere in keeping with other returns
from investments, are down considerably more than
15 p.c. on 1929, and it is the same with Consols,
preference shares and mortgages.
The Commonwealth Statistician has calculated
that present “real wages”—wages valued in accord-
ance with their buying power—are higher than at any
time during 1929. That is the thing that matters to
the wage-earner, and other comparisons are often
misleading.
Mr. Stewart was speaking to a U.A.P. meeting at
Haberfield (N.S.W.). He said that a considerable
measure of world unrest was due to a demand for
more equitable distribution of community wealth,
“with which I have no difficulty in associating myself.”
Assuming that the speaker meant that he had
no difficulty in associating himself with the demand,
most people will agree with him. though many will
question whether it is the function of politicians to
attempt the more equitable distribution by political
methods. The last census showed tragic figures as
regards incomes—a staggering proportion of the people
was well below the basic-wage level. But the census
was taken in exceptional times; moreover, high money
wages, like high share prices, are often a fake and
a mockery. One of the most useful aids to re-employ-
ment is the keeping of costs and prices stable and
taxation and wasteful speculation down.
The Inconsistent Mr. Chaffey.
Nor long ago Mr. Chaffey, the Ministerial head of
the N. S. Wales Police Department, interdicted the
erection of a cinema theatre. Now he has interdicted
the production of a play. There is a certain rough
consistency in these proceedings, and even the play-
banning, outrageous as it seems to playgoers, is merely
another instalment of the New Tyranny, which may
be expressed in the words “You mustn’t do this and
you mustn’t do that.”
But Mr. Chaffey is not always the stern and
unbending administrator.
On March 3 this Minister said he had “always
regarded the police as amateurs in sport.”
They are encouraged to participate in amateur
games. If any policeman indulged in professional sport,
he would then have to choose between being a police-
man and a professional.
These remarks must have been read with loud laughtpr
at the N. S. Wales Rugby League Club.
An English team of Rugby League professionals
was then about to set out for Sydney. Before it
arrived rewards for playing against the invaders were
fixed: £8 a man for City v. England, £lO for N. S.
Wales v. England and £l5 for Australia v. England—•
three matches. Two of Mr. Chaffey’s policemen
played in all, and in matches against Queensland also
—for these the rewards (“fees” is the correct League
expression) are smaller. Whether each of these con-
stables was ordered to choose between being a police-
man and a professional or permitted to play provided
he spurned “fees,” Mr. Chaffey has not explained.
Nearly 64,000 people watching the first Australia
v. England game at Sydney saw Constable Stehr sent
off the field for fighting. A newspaper account says:
Stehr provoked Silcock into a bout of fisticuffs,
and they got properly going like a pair of windmills
in a gale. I use the word “provoked” because referee
Deane followed his edict in giving Stehr and Silcock
marching orders by awarding a penalty kick to England.
The offenders were “cautioned” by the League,
and so were permitted to play in the second and third
Australia v. England matches. In the third —like the
first, played on. the Sydney Cricket Ground—Stehr
started his brawling again, Arkwright being the other
party. Arkwright felled his man. Deane sent both
offenders to the pavilion, Stehr, a hand spread over
his bleeding nose, being helped off by an ambulance
man.
Another newspaper story;
The vicious incidents associated with this international
leave a nasty blot on the game. Test Rugby provides
un parallelled opportunity for the man who is a football
mischief-maker Had Deane acted early, he might
have prevented the unedifying spectacle provided by the
fist-and-blood melee between Stehr and Arkwright.
Nearly 54,000 people were present at the second
Sydney match, so about 118,000 N. S. Wales citizens
saw one of Mr. Chaffey’s constables punching and
being punched, and finally punished by the referee.
This at a time when an officer in such a situation should
have been on his best behavior, since there has been
allegation after allegation as to the bashing of private
persons by policemen. Have there been any remarks
on the unsavory affair by Mr. Chaffey, the play-
banner? Any public reference to the subject at
all? None.
The Essential Tree.
The Victorian Government has decided on a tree-
planting policy on State highways. Melbourne already
has done more tree-planting than any other Aus-
tralian city. It began with Alexandra-avenue, which
has become one of the sights of the Commonwealth.
Ballarat anticipated the capital—not only has it a
magnificent memorial avenue, but even its small
streets have glorious trees on both sides. Wherever
you go in Ballarat there are trees.
And Canberra is already rivalling Ballarat. Two
million trees and shrubs have turned its bleak valleys
and hillsides in a few years into a spring glory oh
foliage and an autumn symphony of browns and
yellows unmatched except, perhaps, in Washington,
another capital lucky enough to have unlimited
national funds behind it. East and west of Canberra
are the usual Australian towns —depressing rows of
ugly brick and wooden houses set in straight, unin-
teresting lines, with a few cow-chewed stumps feebly
sprouting leaves between. Sydney is singularly bare
of street foliage for a city of its size, and the further
north-west the traveller goes the more galvanised
iron and the less foliage there are. Many Westralian
farming towns —old places like York are bright excep-
tion —are hideous for lack of trees.
In India, in even the barest and sandiest parts
of the Punjab, the Grand Trunk road is overhung
with artificially-planted foliage. Canals through what
were once sandy wastes are hedged with commercial
timber belts which go a long way towards paying for
lock upkeep and wages, and which save tens of thou-
sands of pounds’ worth of water which would evapo-
rate without shade. A national scheme is needed
in Australia—only 3 p.c. of its area is real forest—■
one which will operate in terms of millions of units
rather than in tens of thousands. Asia has many
stretches which have crumbled into desert through
timber depletion.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WINBLE'S INKS"
“Ron J.”: Moving just ahead of me
in the long queue at the pictures, a
buxom matron was so engrossed in
appraising the get-up of her neighbors
that her ticket had been slapped down
before she thought of cash. Thirty
seconds of rummaging in her handbag
produced nothing. To make sure, she
emptied the bag of its contents —hand-
kerchief, powder puff, letters, mirror, etc.
—and scattered them on the ticket ledge.
The purse was last out and empty!
“Now I remember,” she simpered, and
peeling back a glove withdrew a pound
note. Her change rattled down promptly,
but she stuck at the window until all
the articles had been replaced, one by
one, in her bag. Snapping it shut, she
turned a gay smile to the waiting herd,
remarking “I think that’s everything.”
“No, it isn’t, missus,” roared an exas-
perated male ; “what about yer dummy?”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Male shopkeepers in
my suburb have taken a tip from the
women who label their beauty parlors,
hairdressing salons and frill shops
“Adrienne’s” or “Gloria’s.” The butchery
where I deal has become just “Alf’s” ;
“Frank’s” is a greengrocery—so is
“Sam’s”; “Ernie’s” cash-and-carry claims
to be the cheapest in the neighborhood ;
“Bob’s” is a well-patronised restaurant,
while Dan, Peter, Joe, Jim and Stan call
attention to their wares under their given
names. For some reason or other Bill
seems to be the only notable absentee ;
possibly he is the bloke who works on
the roads or somewhere and supplies the
cash with which his missus deals with
the Alfs and Dans. And when 1
enter Frank’s or Sam’s I sometimes feel
tempted to call the proprietor Tony or
Pedro ; but I may be wrong.
“Hamer”; I can recall one typographi-
cal error that was responsible for a scene
of disorder in the N.S.W. Assembly. The
old “Evening News” was the offender.
Reporting the opening of a bridge in a
country district, it went on to chronicle
that “as a result of his work in securing
the construction of this much-needed
public utility Mr. Blank, M.L.A. for the
constituency, was publicly tanked at a
party given in his honor.” Mr. Blank
happened to be a choleric man with a
lively sense of his dignity. When J. C. L.
Fitzpatrick, a bit of a jester, gravely
asked the Speaker if the paragraph should
not be regarded as a reflection on the
conduct and behaviour of an hon. mem-
ber, the storm broke.
“Jim D.”: Typographical errors? It
was a dropped line, not merely a letter,
that caused the hilarity in our township
when the local paper, featuring a wed-
ding, recorded that .“the bride was
attired in a sheaf of pink gladioli and
maidenhair fern.”
“Uramao”: Dogs on motor-cars and
lorries which assume a contemptuous air
towards their pedestrian fellows have
been responsible for a police-court case
in Dunedin. A traffic inspector set the
machinery of the Transport Act in motion
against a motor-lorry driver for having his
load insecurely fastened—the load being a
dog. He said the animal might easily have
fallen off and caused an accident. The
magistrate ruled, however, that the dog
was not a part of the load, but a pas-
senger, and dismissed the charge. The
next move will no doubt come from the
insurance companies.
* * *
“Giorgio”: Touching those gipsy trick-
sters (B. 22/7/’36). Once in Gympie
(Q.), a Romany lass invaded a bank at
the lunch hour, asked its only occupant,
a sleepy youth in the teller's cage, to
cross her hand with silver and told him
to beware of a strange lady and trouble.
Explaining the affair when she was
charged with taking notes from the
counter, the youth said he seemed to
go off in a swoon when she gazed into his
eyes. I recall the incident because a
Bulletin verse carpenter sawed the story
up into convenient lengths and con-
structed a “Ballade of Strange Ladies”
with the pieces.
3}c rjc
“Light Horse”; That yarn of the ad-
jutant “handing his commission” to a
newly-fledged officer (B. 22/7/’36) is not
“Hey, cobber, show us the Way to me ’ ut, like a fair dinkum bloke. Vm hushed.
impossible. Depends on how the com-
mission was conferred. It might have
taken the form of a request for pay-
ment of the deposit usually asked under
such circumstances as a preliminary con-
tribution to the regimental mess account
or a command to come up to the afore-
said mess and shout for all hands. There
were other more or less delicate methods
of conveying the glad tidings, and in any
case regimental orders are swift to break
the news.
* * * , *
“Say 99”: Somebody has told The
Bulletin’s Service Column man (B.
22 /7 / ’36) that Judge Jeffreys died of
gallstones. Actually, the Lord High
Chancellor was killed by an infection of
the kidneys, brought on by a long-exis-
tent stone in the bladder. The thing
caused Jeffreys unimagined torture for
years ; and his agonies were at their peak
at the time of the Bloody Assizes. The
results on his temper and on those who
appeared before him are matters of his-
tory. But even in those times bladder
calculi were removed surgically, such
jobs taking only a minute or two. The
tragedy is that Jeffreys did not face the
operation, as old Sam Pepys did before
him.
* * * *
“Anti-Duello”: “Spadassin” holds it
to the credit of the Nazi Government
that it has permitted the revival of gen-
eral duelling (B. 1/7 / ’36). Actually duels
were relegalised in Germany four years
ago after a fair period of “verboten”
following upon the war. In the old days
they were a characteristic of the military
caste. What “Spadassin” overlooks is
that the duello gives an expert with
rapier or pistol a pretty free license to
loose his tongue at the expense of his
less-skilled though possibly more law-
abiding citizens. As the outcome of a
duel usually depends on skill, it consti-
tutes a negation of the commonly
accepted ideas of legal and moral rights,
and the realisation of this was respon-
sible nearly a century ago for the end of
duelling in England.
•I- * •!* •5*
“C.P.”: Does N.S.W. want tourists?
Three young Vic. orchardisfs set out for
that State on a holiday tour in a motor-
truck. When they applied at Albury for
an inter-State traveller’s permit, they were
informed that, as the truck was regis-
tered as a commercial vehicle, they would
have to reweigh and re-register it at
N.S.W. rates before they could travel any
further. Naturally they spent their holi-
day in their home State. The sooner the
Commonwealth receives power over all
forms of transport the better.
$ * * *
“Findy”: This talk of the new sport
of cat-racing in England (after tin mice)
reminds me of the ostrich-trotting that
was tried out in Adelaide some years
ago. An enterprising promoter secured
a number of these gaunt birds and
trained them to pull trotting jinkers
driven by small boys. The opening night
was well-advertised, and a large crowd
went to Jubilee Oval. Came the first
race. The birds were lined up, the
starter’s pistol was fired, and the race
was on. Five minutes later it was still
on. Some of the racers were going round
the course for the fifth or sixth time ;
others were varying the monotony by
running in the reverse direction. Others
again had deserted the course proper
and were dashing aimlessly about in the
centre of the oval, while a few were
digging for worms in various parts of
the field. The jockeys tugged frantically
at the reins, but were utterly ignored by
their steeds. When order had been
restored a fresh start was made, but
when it became apparent that the birds
were prepared to do anything except
race, the spectators drifted away. Next
day the disillusioned promoter returned
his flock to the ostrich farm whence they
came, and the turf knew them no more.
*;* ♦ ♦
“Politicos”: Dealing with the tragi-
cally sudden death of W. F. Foster,
member for Vaucluse, a Sydney paper re-
marks that “Frederick Holder, Speaker
of the House of Reps., was the only
other member of an Australian Parlia-
ment to die in the House.” Considering
how many Australian Parliaments have
been in existence during the past 80
years and more, this seems a sweeping
assertion; I fancy that investigation
would disclose other instances. To cite
only one —-and that since Holder’s time — 1
didn’t E. A. Roberts, M.H.R. for Adel-
aide, collapse and die in the House
in 1913?
# * :J:
“Adelaide”: The A.M.P. Society has
replaced its comfortable old brown-stone
office in King William-street with a 12-
storey block on the same site ; even the
basement is two storeys more. It joins
the T. and G., Shell and C.M.L. as the
tallest office-buildings in the city. It
was opened by Governor Dugan, sup-
ported by Chief Secretary Ritchie and
Walter Duncan, chairman of the local
directors. But the most memorable
speech was that of A. W. Sneddon, from
Sydney, who told of the earliest days of
1849 in George-street, when the infant
society allocated £lO for advertising (and
did not use it all), reported with pride
that it had got its rent reduced from £3B
to £2O, and several years later was able
to afford a deed-box and a carpet. And
every general manager, from the first,
has either been Australian or M.L. by
birth.
* * * *
“Are”: As rare as the hansom-cab
(B. 15/7/’36) is a woman's side-saddle.
Some of the European museums collect
them as “bygones.” Quite recently the
Queensland Museum received a side-
saddle which dated back to 1883, and
was used by Georgina Kennedy when
her father was Governor.
“Vario”: Sydney is not alone in tts
dearth of hansoms and shoeblacks (B.
8/ 7 / ’36). Brisbane lost its last hansom
cab two years ago. And there is only
one shoeblack left—a solitary, opposite
the G.P.O.
s]; * *
“Keg”: In the matter of death risks (B.
15/7/’36), the Sydney tramway employee
must occupy a high place on the list.
Excluding deaths by accident —inciden-
tally, very rare lately—we cannot base our
risks on actuarial tables. My union pays
a mortality benefit, and year after year we
are far above the mean death-rate for
the Commonwealth. Take into considera-
tion that we are subject to a stiff medical
examination on entry to the service and
meet periodical exams, through our work-
ing life and the figures become far from
pleasant. Chest and allied complaints are
the main destroying angels.
* * * *
“Sandy”: From time immemorial
Hungarian lovers have serenaded their
affinities from underneath the window
with strains from the romantic guitar.
A relative touring in Europe assures me
that all this is changed. To-day the swain
simply finds out his girl’s favorite air,
rings up the broadcasting company and
orders it, as one would order a pound of
tea from the grocer. The station
announces that the air is played for Miss
X at the special request of Mr. Y. For
this radio serenade Mr. Y pays five
pengoes—about four-and-sixpence.
* * * ❖
“Orford”: Burned, destroyed or other-
wise lost to circulation, the sum of
£14,453 has been carried by the Com-
monwealth Bank to reserve for notes not
presented. Under the Act, 10s. and £1
notes are deemed to be out of circula-
tion if they have not been presented for
redemption within 20 years from the date
of issue. The creation of this reserve
began in 1933 with £2648. Since then
it has shown a marked increase every
year.
THE WRECKER.
“Mr. Lang has wrecked two Labor Governments
and the Labor Parliamentary party in his own State;
through one of his henchmen he has even managed to
wreck a Federal Labor Government. His whole record
is one of wreckage; to-day even his Parliamentary
servitors are rebelling against him.” — ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
He wrecked both Labor Ministries he headed,
As well as settling poor old Scullin’s hash;
Destructive, dictatorial, dour and dreaded,
There’s little that he hasn’t brought to smash.
Unchecked, he would have wrecked the
country’s credit,
Just as some careless housemaid smashes
delf.
And at the end of all —sure, Gran., you’ve
said it —
It’s odds he’s going to be wrecked himself.
Never in history was such a wrecker,
He broke all records in the Cornish trade;
He made such gaping holes in our exchequer
That even widows’ pensions couldn’t be paid,
And civil servants wondered whether pay-day
Would see them pocketing their hard-earned
pelf.
He specialised in smashing in his heyday.
And now he looks like being smashed
himself.
He wrecked his party until, torn asunder,
From all its old ascendancy it sank;
And, worst of all his laches, I shouldn’t
wonder,
You might regard the wrecking of a bank.
Now with his own petard he’s being petarded
Aloft, and relegated to the shelf,
A busted idol, counted out, discarded,
A wrecker going on the reef himself!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Billy Boil”: It is absurd to question
the essential fairness of two-up merely
because a “double-header” may turn up
occasionally in some dingy gambler’s
possession (B. 8/7/’36). In any big
school worthy of the name there are
meticulous “policing” by qualified atten-
dants and a set of regulations that would
put many a legalised sport to shame,
Every spin of the caster may be duly
challenged, and the ring-keeping is rigidly
controlled. I tremble to think of what
would happen to the possessor of a
“double-header” in any of the schools I
have in mind.
“Bert the Carpenter”: A fitter en-
lightened me as to where and how
“double-headers” are produced. “I
made scores of them when I worked at
the railway shops,” he said. “They were
a profitable sideline at a quid each. You
took a couple of pennies that were an
exact match, put them on the table of
the milling machine and planed the tail
side down to exactly half the thickness.
Then you sweated the two planed sur-
faces together, removing all trace of the
sweating by mounting the penny between
two wooden mandrels in a lathe and run-
ning a burnisher over the edge. The
only trouble was dodging the foreman.
Some blokes rubbed them down on a mill
saw-file, but that was a lengthy job, and
the result usually looked a bit crook.”
* * * *
“P.M.”: These yarns about penny-in-
the-slot chocolate machines remind me of
a schoolmate of mine. A youngster of an
inventive bent, he helped himself to a
sheet of lead from a building job and cut
it up into imitation pennies, having dis-
covered that if diameter and thickness
were right they would do the job, regard-
less of exact weight. He made a huge
haul of chocolates, and, as most of us
shared in the spoil, we voiced no com-
plaints. After we left school I never
thought much about him; then, last
Anzac Day, I saw him on the march with
his medals up ; and, believe it or not, he
had his collar on back to front!
* * * ❖
“General Prac.”: The Sydney press
has been starring the story of a citizen
with a “dual brain.” Using both hands,
he writes two different sentences or draws
two different sketches at once. This, of
course, is simply an ability acquired by
an originally left-handed person to em-
ploy the right hand as well. Four or five
per cent, of human beings, males for the
most part, are left-handed at birth. Most
of us are right-handed because the move-
ments of the right arm (and leg) are gov-
erned by a power station in the left half
of the brain, the cables from which
switch over to the opposite side in the
spinal cord ; in left-handed folk, the
reverse is true. Dr. Leonard Williams
suggests that violin-playing offers the sole
instance in which a man’s left hand must
be slicker than his right; but I know of
at least three piano studies, written for
the left hand only, which make huge
demands on any performer, however
talented. It’s safe to say that no pianist
can reach the first rank unless practically
ambidextrous. Many great artists have
been so, Leonardo da .Vinci among them.
Many years ago, a woodcarver com-
mitted suicide with a razor, his throat
having been cut on both sides and the
weapon lying on his left. That was a
puzzler till somebody pointed out that
he was ambidextrous. All good wood-
carvers have to be.
“Diggaire”: A cable from London
records the arrival of the perfect gas-
mask. Diggers must scoff, because a
mask is no protection against mustard
“Now that We're getting married, Dave, I hope you'll learn to carve,
if you can't."
"Calve? Me?”
gas. Mustard gas attacks parts of the
body where moisture is, and some sort of
bag would be needed to cover the whole
of the body, not the face alone. The effects
of mustard gas are enduring as well as
excruciating. During the past two years
15 new cases of blindness due to the
“delayed action” of the stuff have been
admitted to St. Dunstan’s.
“Mr. Chucks”: The assumption of so
many Sydney film critics that Marryat’s
Midshipman Easy was written for children
Ex-Bos’n: “What about cracking a bottle of fizz over his bow,
y'r reverence?"
suggests that they have never read the
book. Marryat wrote only one child’s
book, Masterman Ready. His other works,
Midshipman Easy in particular, are most
sophisticated tales of the navy during
and after the Napoleonic wars. Writer,
not yet senescent, can recall that scenes
from the Midshipman and Peter Simple
were not regarded as fitting for youthful
ears, particularly those depicting the
young wet nurse’s interview with Mrs.
Easy at the beginning of the first book
and the raiding of the seamen’s joy-den
by the press gang in the second.
“Claypole”: Not all Judges are in-
tolerant (or professedly ignorant) of slang.
In a recent Perth case Justice Draper
expressed himself as fully conversant
with the meaning of “keeping nit,” but a
little dubious about the significance of
“keeping long nit.” He nodded under-
standingly when counsel explained that
“keeping watch from a distance” was
implied. A little later, however, ’Sonah
rather inconsistently objected to the
phrase “giving the office” as not being
plain language such as the jury could
understand. Yet “the office,” as an
equivalent of “tip” or “hint,” though
doubtless a vulgarism, is firmly enough
established in the language for even
Webster to give it a line or two, illus-
trated with a quotation, whereas on the
subject of “nit” that authority is silent.
It is a Cockneyism, of course—l fancy
Dickens was one of the first to put it in
print—but it is well acclimatised wherever
English is spoken.
“Mick O’Mulga”: Add public hos-
pitals to the list of institutions where the
religious creeds given by the inmates are
apt to be dictated by other than genuine
convictions (B. 15/7/’36). 1 was in one
when a man whom I knew well was put
into the next cot; when the nurse asked
for the usual particulars I was astonished
to hear him claim to be a Salvationist.
“This is a Salvo, town,” he whispered to
me a few minutes later, “and when you’re
in hospital always plump for the religion
that’s strongest in the district.” Sure
enough, he never lacked visitors or little
gifts, while I had neither ; the only com-
fort I derived was seeing my ward-mate’s
look of disgust when his request for read-
ing matter brought a huge bundle of
“War Cries.”
“Exdig”: Convenient changes of re-
ligion in the A.I.F. (B. 22/7/’36)? Hav-
ing ascertained that, in the absence of a
padre of that creed, the R.C. church
parade had been dismissed while the ad-
herents of other creeds had been marched
off, I, with other church-parade shirkers,
became R.C. on the next Sunday. Grin-
ning, we watched the other parades get-
ting into action ; but the “dismiss” did
not come. Instead, we formed fours and
were marched three miles to another
camp where there was an R.C. chaplain.
He gave us extra measure to make up
for the lost services ; and by the time
we got back to camp those who had been
more loyal to Protestantism had mopped
up most of the dinner that was worth
having. That was the last time 1 abjured
my religion.
“Toheroa”: 1 remember a M.L. camp
in the early war days where the O.C.
arrived on a Sunday morning and pro-
ceeded to sort out the men according to
their religious views. He was astounded
to discover that every second man de-
clared himself of no creed at all. Order-
ing the religious batches to their respec-
tive churches, he fixed the remainder
with a chilly eye. “As you all describe
yourselves as infidels,” said he coldly,
“you will have no objection to Sunday
work” ; and the atheists and agnostics
were then and there assigned the strenu-
ous job of cleaning and beautifying the
camp on a fierce midsummer morning.
By the following Sabbath there wasn’t a
single infidel left in camp.
“Gout Anglais”: The Soviet Food
Commissar, having declared that cham-
pagne is not too good for the workers to
drink, has ordered the institution of a
champagne industry in Russia with an
objective of ten million bottles a year.
Champagne of a sort used to be pro-
duced in the Crimea, but it was a tipple
that was certainly not too good for the
proletariat, or even the pigs. In the days
of the Russian Empire France had to
make a special type of fizz for the Rus-
sian market. To the British palate it
was of syrupy sweetness, and I have been
informed by those who have sampled it
on board visiting Russian men-o’-war and
elsewhere that the resulting “head” was
what Lancashire would call “champion.”
“Non Comp.”: Lobby (B. 24/6/’36)
mentions that, when Oscar Wilde was
awarded two years’ imprisonment for his
misdeeds in the middle ’nine-
ties, Labouchere roundly con-
demned the sentence as inade-
quate. “But it must be remem-
bered,” says his biographer,
almost apologetically, “that the
Victorians considered homo-
sexuality a crime, not a disease.”
Meaning presumably that the
present generation has come to
regard it as a disease, not a
crime. If this is so—and it must
be admitted that novels and
short stories give some color to
the inference —isn’t it time that
the whole of the criminal code
relating to unnatural offences
was revised? On the other
hand, it is a little hard to under-
stand how offences viewed with
abhorrence among most civi-
lised races for thousands of
years should, since the Wilde
case, have become mere evi-
dences of nothing more than a
regrettable malady.
“V.A.G.”: 1 entered the G.P.’s waiting-
room at 9 a.m. and saw the following
notice: “In winter, the morning consult-
ing hour will not start till half-past nine ;
you are better at home in bed.” In
pencil someone had added: “Why come
at all?”
“Liss”; “L. Lizard” (B. 15/7/’36) is
wrong when he says that no blacksmith
works with the beakhorn of the anvil at
his left hand. What about a left-handed
one?
TWO CAPTAINS.
“According to Arthur Jlailey, Allen, the captain
of the next English cricket team, will be found more
congenial than Jardine because of his simpler tastes.
‘He loves boiled lollies, picture-shows and boyish
amusements, whereas Jardine appreciated caviare,
Shakspeare and subtle satire.’ ”
They run in various shapes who lead to battle
Our friend the enemy from ’cross the seas
To tight on fields where deadly yorkers rattle
The batsman or insidious googlies tease;
They differ just as much as sheep and cattle,
Or oil and vinegar, or chalk and cheese.
Some are as sweet as sugar and as nice.
Others a biting blend of iron and ice.
Still war is war, and cricket is but cricket,
And where the barrackers’ triumphant roar
Proclaims the skittling of a valued wicket
Or hails a soaring six or skimming four,
There’s most of us, I think, would take a
ticket
Upon the man who holds it nothing more
Than just a game, a mimic fray designed.
Howe’er it goes, to leave no gall behind.
He’s debonair is Allen, blithe and jolly;
A smiling sport with whom it’s good to mix.
Adept alike to paste the loose half-volley
Or rock a daisy-cutter at the sticks,
He keeps a youthful yearning for a lolly
And revels in an evening at the flicks.
A chap with simple tastes, devoid of frill,
It’s safe to say they’ll like him on the Hill.
Luckless Jardine! For all the whips and lashes
You earned, the maledictions on you
poured.
You carried home the bacon (and the Ashes)
And there, it has to be confessed, you
scored.
But what avail your ruthless modes, your
flashes
Of strategy, if this is your reward,
Only ,in mortal memories to combine
With Shakspeare, caviare—and bodyline?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


20M'6
Wfor9 A
c^Av
J 855
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake — smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CORK
P P E D
G A R E T T E
THIS GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Thorby will remember his visit to
Westralia. Venturing among the wheat-
farmers in Gregory’s electorate, he was
considerably heckled, and at one meeting
a fresh burst was started by a reference
to “the likes of you.” Then, squealing
at the Westralian Government’s success-
ful intervention in James v. the Com-
monwealth, he was acidly rebuked by
Premier Collier, who can do that sort
of thing superbly when he has a mind
to it.
“It is surely an extraordinary thing for
a Federal Minister to castigate a State
Government for having supported what
has conclusively been shown to be the
law and Constitution of Australia” —Pre-
mier Collier giving Thorby two for one.
It was extraordinary, but then Thorby
belongs to an extraordinary Government.
Extraordinary not in talents, but in being
wrong on every major question it takes
up, from “sanctions” to cement, and from
tariff prohibition to the construction of
Section 92.
Two of the three legal members of
the Lyons Ministry have confided to
reporters that they thought James would
win the Privy Council case. Yet their
“extraordinary” Government rushed into
it with its head down.
An Australian-born cricketer is to
captain the English team to visit these
parts next summer. The Lord Chancellor
is a great force in the club that chose
him. Perhaps this is Britain’s response
to “Australia’s magnificent tariff gesture.”
In the latest Labor faction fight, Lang
and his friends have been placed on
the defence. The burden of Beasley’s
song when tackled about “the big
fellow” is “Why should we ditch him —
what has he done?” James and the rest
are taking refuge in similar pleas. It
seems the beginning of the end for Lang.
In all the history of Labor faction fights
to attack is to triumph ; the factionist
reduced to the defensive is a gone coon.
Travellers to Spain have often said
there’s something about the country and
the people that reminds them of Aus-
tralia. Be this as it may, Australians
should take warning from the events
which have scourged the land of Cer-
vantes and the Conquistadors since a
horde of Moscow agents was let loose
on it. Communism on the Moscow plan
means civil war.
It is not six weeks since Lloyd George,
thundering against the dropping of “sanc-
tions,” shouted that if it came to war
with Italy, Britain could rely on full sup-
port from France and Spain. Spain!
It was evidently in the hope of quieten-
ing the League of Hallucinations Union
that Canberra decided to send the secre-
tary, Raymond Watt, to Geneva as one
of its “three official delegates” to the
Assembly; but Mr, Watt won’t be
quietened. At a valedictory luncheon at
a fashionable Sydney hotel, he said that
“a country like ours” should say to other
countries; “If you will reduce arma-
ments, we will commensurately reduce
our tariffs.” The gaiety of nations, which
has been in eclipse lately, will burst forth
again if this “official delegate” repeats
the offer at the Assembly and some rude
foreigner mentions his Government’s
tariff prohibitions.
Lyons’s reiterated demand that critics
of the Whiskard-Gullett tariff should
“keep out of the ring” was evidently not
meant to apply to his own side. After
the P.M, had again directed the wool-
growers to say nothing, Lawson, M.H.R.,
uplifted his voice at a Bathurst meeting
to the effect that the Japanese had tried
to “bluff Australia into lifting the re-
strictions” and had now “come to
heel.” Previously McCall, M.H.R., had
dashed down to the “S. M. Herald” office
with a letter declaring that India and
Canada, among other countries, had
taken action to restrict Japanese imports
—he did not, of course, mention that in
each case it was to safeguard home, not
British, interests. Lawson and McCall
are young lions of the U.A.P. Tamer
cubs never tried to roar.
W. F. Foster, M.L.A., for Vaucluse,
(N.S.W.), has made his last speech. He
had angina, and against doctor’s orders
he went to the House on Wednesday to
speak for bus-owners who have had a
very raw deal from the party that
promised in 1932 to “put the buses back
on the roads.” Foster was urging their
claims when he faltered and fell, dying
on the couch to which he was carried.
Just on 70, he literally expended his last
breath demanding justice from his own
side for men badly treated in violation
of pledges. No bad way for a public
man to die.
The Sports Who Lost the Taxpayers Tin.
N.S.W. “Hansard” achieved the
dramatic in recording the end of W. F.
Foster. He began by saying:
At the moment I am in great pain,
suffering intensely, but I deem it my duty
to speak upon this subject as long as my
strength permits.
Thirty minutes later he was interrupted
on a point of order.
Mr. Foster; I apologise to the hon.
member for Bondi and to everybody whom
1 may have offended. The Bondi to Cen-
tral Railway Station service, four buses,
Fageols
(At this stage the hon. member for Vau-
cluse collapsed.)
[Mr. Speaker left the chair at 11.21 p.m.
The House resumed at 11.43 p.m.\
The death of the hon. member for Vau-
clnse having occurred meanwhile,
Debate adjourned.
Says Kent Hughes, who was Victorian
Minister of Transport:—
Anybody who makes the claim that all
goods must be carried on the railways is a
fool living in the past.
Unfortunately, there are plenty of such
persons about. Many of them are in
Cabmets and Government departments.
As evidence of the feeling aroused in
Japan by the Whiskard-Gullett tariff, a
returned Australian says he saw laborers
divest themselves of woollen underwear
and throw it on a bonfire. Canberra
politicians may consider the incident
amusing, but Australia can’t afford to
ignore such manifestations any more
than it can afford to forget the February
assassinations—the work of fanatics
whose cry was that their victims had
profaned the honor of Japan. Nor must
Canberra politicians imagine that they
can make an enduring arrangement with
the Japanese merchant class if the mill-
tary class disapproves. Always it will be
necessary to bring imagination and
understanding into negotiations with the
Japanese. .So far Canberra has exhibited
neither.
It has been unkindly recalled that just
before he entered Commonwealth poll-
tics Menzies described Section 92 as
“one of the dark places of the Constitu-
tion, lit up in a flickering fashion occa-
sionally by a High Court decision, which
left it darker than ever.” He added the
expression of “a pious hope that the
meaning will ultimately be referred to
the Privy Council.” It was; and now
he must' wish it hadn’t been.
Wp<Urnlia’s Draner T ha* shocked the
ura P er ’ uas snocxea in
P.M.G.’s Department by ruling, in the
case of a postman charged with theft
of a postal-note enclosed in a letter, that
• ~ ’ „
the note was nothing more than a scrap
of paper, since the payee’s name had
not been filled in. If this contention is
sound, the relative law needs early and
drastic amendment. It is very loose in
other respects. When registered letters
containing valuables had to be jetti-
soned from a ’plane trying to cross the
Tasman, the Post Office repudiated
liability, though it had sponsored the
flight and urged people to register their
letters.
Professor Munro, from Harvard, has
been telling Australians that Franklin
Roosevelt is sure to carry “the Solid
South,” and that “even before the cam-
paign starts he can count on more than
100 Presidential electors out of the 266
needed to elect him.” Certainly a great
start, and re-election seems highly
probable, but it doesn’t follow that the
Democrats will carry the House, which
is to be re-elected at the same time.
Ten non-South States return more than
half the Representatives—2lB out of 435.
There is distinct approval in Queens-
land for the fifteen years’ sentence in-
flicted by Judge Brennan on Kopit’s
imitator, who, intent on the most
cowardly form of robbery, battered an
old lady to the point of death in a Gov-
ernment mail train. His Honor said that
“aggravated violence should be visited
by periodical floggings, even in the case
of wilful murder,” though the criminal
code prevented him from prescribing it,
and he suggested the establishment of a
Commonwealth detective force. Some
ill-informed person at Canberra said this
would be unconstitutional, but Mr.
Brennan knows better. He doubtless
remembers also that “an egg thrown at
Warwick” nearly twenty years ago
■ “hatched out the Commonwealth police.”
Old Parliamentary hands are comment-
ing sarcastically on the agonised remarks
of Stevens on the judgment in James v.
the Commonwealth.
The legal position now is that the Con-
stitution fetters the powers of both
Federal and State Parliaments in a way
never intended.
Some chagrin may be permitted to a
Premier who sent his Attorney-General
to London, at vast expense, to argue that
the time-honored interpretation of Sec-
tion 92 was wrong ; but this is too much.
The section securing inter-State freetrade
was framed by men who meant every
word they wrote, and their deliberate in-
tention was to warn off provincial poli-
ticians and jacks-in-office. Had Stevens
been of their time they wouldn’t have
considered him a statesman’s bootlace.
A Brisbane man who has been study-
ing methods followed in British textile
factories has returned with interesting
news.
While Australia’s tariff on Japanese
textiles is designed to assist British trade,
British imports of Japanese textiles have
doubled in a few years.
For this reason, among others:
There is a large quantity of out-of-date
machinery operating. Mills in this cate-
gory are just hanging on.
Aoout the same time the representive of
a British co. arrived in Tokio to arrange
for Japanese purchases of iron ore from
North Westralia.
Macaulay flayed the poet Mont-
gomery for perpetrating “the worst
similitude in the world”:
The soul, aspiring, pants its source to
mount,
As streams meander slowly to their fount.
Abbott, M.H.R., an obsequious sup-
porter of the Government and its trade-
war policy, matched Montgomery by
likening Lyons to Blondin doing his stuff
over Niagara laden with treasure. Where-
upon Norman Cowper, the Sydney
lawyer:
If we have indeed reached this stage—
if the Government, with the prosperity and
safety of Australia in its hands, is dancing
giddily on a rope over a chasm —then I
suppose the only thing for us to do is, as
Mr. Abbott suggests, to hold our breaths
and shut our eyes and wait for the ghastly
performance to end in the almost inevitable
disaster.
The sarcastic Mr. Cowper suggested that
the Government should rather be com-
pared to “a board of directors which has
rushed a great public company into rash
and foolish litigation.” And that was
before it lost the Privy Council case.


AUSTRALIA TO BAT .
FUSS" WIC.VLET Dowsl .
The Mam who dropped
Braomm .
>' \ «
All GiQOD COBBERS, 'MUfc.T .
But off the field
'> v\
-this* Okie ini - business
MAY PROVE RATHER COMPUCATEO .
NO SNOBBERY.
“There is to he no snobbery among the English cricket team to visit Australia. The rule; is to be ‘one in— all in.* I ” —Sydney "D.T."


mm
PP MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-<XHTIZ-XO>S
JOHN HEINE
5 YDNEY
10-ir-ZQui-i*
McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane'
m PIACE S LIKE THIS
JIT A MAZDA
IN the tool shed, garage or that
glory-hole of yours under the
house there should be plenty of
light. Fit a Mazda.
MLSB
TK*
Grit
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
o
taf»
m
A
M
4f
0.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
N.S.W. Local Government Ministers
lose a perennial adviser by the passing
of William George Finn, Apart from
his unrivalled knowledge of l.g. matters,
Finn was one of the most cheerful and
philosophical souls in the service.
Thomas Waites won’t keep his job if
the Douglas Credit people ever take over
the N. S. Wales Government. His report
on the major’s cure-all was a best-seller.
Waites loves his figures, and tosses them
about with the air of a happy juggler.
He always has a half-hidden twinkle in
his shrewd Yorkshire eyes, and though
A Government Statistician.
he is a Digger—wounded at Flers —he is
proud of his hardy northern origin. Waites
came to Australia in the ship Samuel
Plimsoll at two years old in 1886. From
Sydney High School he went to the Edu-
cation Department, but in a year or two
was transferred to the Statistician’s
Bureau, where a thorough training under
T. A. Coghlan fitted him to climb to the
top of the tree.
Some August birthdays:
Q’land Gov. Sir Leslie Wilson, 60, Justice
Halse Rogers (N.S.W.), 53, Coadjutor-Bishop
Dixon (Bris.), 67, and Prof. Robt. Wallace
(Vice-Chancellor, Syd. Uni.), 54, on Ist;
R. B. W. McComas (Melb.), 74, and S. H.
Smith (formerly N.S.W. Director of Educ.), 71,
on 2nd; Rev. Dr. Borland (Scots Church,
Melb.), 69, merchant-knight Wallace Bruce
(Adel.), 58, and Air-Commodore Williams
(Vic.), 46, on 3rd; Rev. Dr. Dey (“Christian
World”), 88, on 4th; H. E. Holt, M.H.R.
(Fawkner), 28, on sth; former Gov.-Gen.
Isaacs, 81, knight M. M. Anderson (Syd.), 69,
E. A. Southee (Hawkesbury Agric. Coll.), 46,
S. Senator George McLeay, 43, and poetess
Marie E. J. Pitt, on 6th; poet E. J. Brady,
67, and knight Lennon Raws (Melb.), 58, on
7th; E. T. Fisk (A.W.A.), 50, Fed. Commerce
Minister Earle Page, 56, and H. W. Champion
(Papua), 56, on Bth; N.S.W. ex-Chief Justice
Street, 73, and W.A. Min. for Justice and
Railways Willcock, 57, on 9th; Speck’s C.J.
Nicholls, 68, A. C. Hall, V.C. (N.S.W.), 40,
Prof. A. K. Macbeth (Adel.), 47, and Hugh
McConaghy (C’wealth Tariff Board), 59, on
11th; knight Keith Murdoch (Melbourne
“Herald”), 50, on 12th; Jock Garden, M.H.R.
(Cook), 54, on 13th; Prof. Morris Miller
(Speck), 55, and knight Fred Stewart, M.H.R.,
52, on 14th; Prof. Elliot Smith, 65, Bishop
Baker (Bendigo), 54, and novelist Erie Cox,
63, on 15th; Dr. H. Herman (Melb.), 61, and
poetess Mary Gilmore, on 16th; Speck Senator
Payne, 70, on 17th; Frank Anstey (former
M.H.R. for Bourke), 71, Prof. J. D. Stewart
(Syd.), 67, on 18th; Prof. Laver (Melb.), 70,
and John Garlick (Syd.), 61, on 20th; Vic.
Methodist minister A. T. Holden, 70, poet
Will Ogilvie, 67, and W. B. Geddes (N.S.W.
Justice Dept.), 56, on 21st; Judge Curlewis
(N.S.W.), 67, and N.S.W. Min. of Agric.
Hugh Main, 53, on 22nd 5 Lieut.-Gen. knisht
J. T. Hobbs (W.A.), 72, and Prof. F A
Bland (Syd. Uni.), 54, on 24th; Fed. Chief Jus-
tice Latham, 59, Prof. F. R. Beasley (Perth) 39
and W.A. Senator A. N. MacDonald, 44 on
25th ; Bishop Ash (Rockhampton), 54, knieht
w° f A T V. R K Lyle ’,FA S < 76, and Prof.
W. A. Osborne (Melb.), 63, on 26th; Justice
Dwyer (W A.), 61, Prof. Angus (St. Andrew’s
S y d.), 55, and Mm. for Defence Archdale
ParkhilL 57, on 27th; Vance Palmer, 51, on
28th; Bng.-Gen. Cannan (Q.), 54, J. Spencer
Brunton (Syd.), 75, and Fed. Treasurer Casey,
46, on 29th; ex. Gov. de Chair, 72; and ex-
Pnncipal Ronald Macintyre, 73, on 30th • R
Ewing (Fed. Taxation Com.), 65, and Ambrose
Pratt, 62, on 31st.
Death called on John Smith Purdy
Sydney’s city health officer, only after
the soft-hearted doctor had saved the
lives of thousands of youngsters by his
continual propaganda and organisation
in their interest. Purdy was a North of
England man, and held an M.D. of
Aberdeen and a D.P.H. of Cambridge.
A period as quarantine officer in Egypt*
an extensive experience in London lock
hospitals and as district health officer
in Maoriland and Tasmania led him to
his final position. He fought in S’Africa
with the Maorilanders, and he got a
D.S.O. in 1917 while commanding the
3rd Australian General Hospital. Town-
planning was Purdy’s hobby—his interest
in it was based on slum eradication.
The tragic death of a daughter saddened
his last days.
* j : chief taxidermist at
Adelaide Museum, Joseph Rau, has re-
tired after 40 years’ service. He studied
under his brother Otto, and between
them they set up practically every bird
and beast in the big collection, con-
stantly added to by collectors and also
by any casualties, from kangaroo rat to
hippopotamus, at the Zoo. Allan Rau,
son of Joseph, has for years been assist-
ing in the good work, and succeeds to
the vacant office.
Knight Cecil Day, who went to Maori-
land 26 years ago with Governor Isling-
ton, and has been official secretary to
four other M.L. Governors, has resigned
on account of his wife’s health. Pre-
mier Savage has offered him a job in the
High Commissioner’s office, so that he
will be available to represent M.L. on
the League of Nations at Geneva.
With the retirement of M. L. Reading
from the editorship, W. H. Cummins
becomes editor as well as g.m. of
the Brisbane “Telegraph.” Cummins is
a stocky, clean-
shaven Tasmanian
with plenty of jaw
and brow showing
and tons of energy.
He has worked for
only two proprie-
taries in his life,
Hobart “Mercury”
gave him a thor-
ough training. In
1931, when he had
been its manager
for 10 years, Cum-
mins went to the
“Telegraph,” which,
has become a
bright evening
paper full of pep,
pictures and para-
graphs with head-
ings the size of
battleships. In his
day he was president of the Hobart
Chamber of Commerce, and in 1930 he
was a delegate to the Imperial Confer-
ence. His vice is golf.
The late W. F. Foster was one of the
most independent U.A.P. members of
the N.S.W. Assembly. Brisbane-born,
Brisbane “Telegraph’s” Editor-in-chief.
W.F. was the head of a building con-
struction firm, but dabbled in many com-
mercial sidelines —among them the found-
ing of some of Sydney’s earliest picture
theatres. He was president of the N. S.
Wales Master Builders in the last war
year. He came into politics in 1925 via
the Woollahra Council, and sandwiched
in a lot of other jobs with his Parlia-
mentary work, his particular preoccupa-
tion being vocational training of returned
soldiers. For years he had been burning
the candle at both ends when he fell dead
in the Assembly.
N.S.W.’s Governor - designate, Sir
Murray Anderson, had for a fellow-
patient at Perth’s St. John of God Hos-
pital Phil Collier, Westralia’s Premier.
Divided by the width of the continent,
each will sign on the same day. Collier
will have the less pleasant task, for he
lines up with a shadow of his previous
majority.
Knight Albert Gould is dead at 89.
He and Bruce Smith, still on deck,
along with J. G. Drake, first P.M.G.,
were the oldest survivors of the first
Federal Parliament. Gould was a soli-
citor, admitted in N.S.W. in 1870. He
was in Parkes’s 1889 Ministry, and sat
in N.S.W. Parliaments till Federation,
when he resigned to enter the pioneer
Senate. From 1907 to 1910 he was
President, retiring in 1917. He was a
great Anglican, and for many years was
chancellor of Sydney diocese. And in his
young days he was an ardent defence-
force man.
The oldest living member of Brisbane’s
Commercial Rowing Club, Frank Baynes,
formerly Deputy-Registrar of Titles, cele-
brated a vigorous 80th birthday recently.
Even to-day “Tiger” can outwalk the
average car-addict “athlete.” He won a
rowing heat when he was 60, and in good
time, too. He played Rugby football in
14 “intercolonial” and two international
matches, always forward, although he
was a lightweight. His best efforts,
though, were in the amateur ring. He
beat Arthur Scott for the lOst. amateur
championship when Scott was regarded
as of first-rate professional grade and a
good match for George Dawson if he
could be induced to turn pro. Arthur
Baynes, the international sculling amateur
champion,'whose untimely death occurred
a few years ago, was a nephew.
Sir Trevor Bigham, who is suggested
as a possible commissioner to deal with
Victorian police affairs, is a son of the
first Lord Mersey. Father was a British
Judge, well-known in his day as the re-
viser of martial law sentences during the
S’African war and as the commissioner
who inquired into
the sinking of the
Titanic. His son,
after leaving Mag-
dfilen College,
Oxford, was called
to the Middle
Temple Bar his
father was elected
a bencher 50 years
ago—and in 1909
became Chief Con-
stable of the Lon-
don Metropolitan
Police. Bigham was
assistant - commis-
sioner from 1914
to 1931, and de-
puty - commissioner
for three years be-
fore his retirement
in 1934. He is 60.
A lot of Austra-
lians knew his brother, the present Lord
Mersey, who was Provost Marshal of the
British Dardanelles Expeditionary Force.
The chairman of Queensland’s Royal
Commission on Transport will be Justice
William Flood Webb, whose appointment
at 30 as State Solicitor-General—he sue-
ceeded Tom McCawley—and a year or
two afterwards as President of the Arbi-
tration Court caused a lot of controversy.
He has been a Supreme Court Judge
since 1925, and presides over the senior
industrial courts, the Board of Trade and
the Cane Prices Board. He is a big,
courteous man, now 49, whose private
pursuits are mostly scholarly.
The long, financial face of Alexander
Cooch has been moulded by a record
service in the Victorian State Savings
Bank. Cooch came out of Stawell
Grammar School to enter the S.B. 57
years ago, and has been there ever since.
At 28, he was head-office accountant.
The outbreak of war saw him deputy
chief inspector, and after a five years’
“acting” period he became g.m. in 1929.
He was chairman of the Royal Com-
mission on Vic. public savings during
A Savings Bank Veteran.
the war, and he reorganised the savings
bank systems of Tasmania in 1907 and
N.S.W. the following year. He has been
three times president of the Australasian
Bankers’ Institute, and was a delegate to
the International Congress of Savings
Banks in U.S.A. in 1926. He gives every
spare moment to bowls, and estimates
that during a recent month’s holiday,
playing every day from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.,
he heaved 540 tons of material at kitty.
T. J. Thomas, financial secretary to
the Defence Department, retired quietly
last week —he combined his main duty
with membership of the Naval and Air
Boards. Diggers had good cause to know
him during the war —he was chief pay-
master of the A.I.F.
The architect likely to be appointed to
build the new Queensland University is
J. R Hennessy, who followed his father
in the profession after a brilliant career
at Sydney University. He was one of
the late John Sulman’s pupils, and studied
for some years in the U.S.A. and on the
Continent on scholarships. His most im-
portant job was the last section of St.
Mary’s, Sydney, and he is the architect
to the church’s new Brisbane Cathedral.
He has also planned buildings for the
Colonial Mutual Life both in. and out of
Australia, and has done several jobs for
the Queensland Government. He mar-
ried a daughter of T. C. Beirne, who has
been a generous financial supporter of
the University.


BIOGRAPHY OF THAT ROAST DUCK.


How Much Time
can yon give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time—your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter X. Brnnton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col, the Hon. X. A. J, Playfair, M.1.C., E. B. Knox, K. de L, Cndniore,
R. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
all or write for Explanatory Booklet.
H. V. Douglass, Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
Or AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-SI.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates. Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Grapliine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 35 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address; “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
.GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at* current London prices
phis exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Greater J. D. Williams Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 17,7X2 10 p.c. = 18,051 63,661
1926.. 17,426 10 „ „ 18,051 63,036
Profit on sale shares, £l5OO ~ 64,536
1927.. 18,382 10 p.c. = 18,051 331 64,867
1928.. 21,211 10 „ „ 21,341 64,737
1929.. 28,144 8 „ 27,654 490 65,227
1930.. 2,058 Nil 2,658 67,885
Doss.
1931.. 401 Nil 07,484
Profit.
1932.. 478 Nil 478 67,962
Claim charged to reserves, £2674 .. 65,288
Loss.
1933.. 226 Nil ' 65,062
Profit.
1934.. 1,231 Nil 1,231 66,293
Net addition reserves,, £2190 .. 68,‘483
1935.. 1,107 Nil 1,107 69,590
This is one of the holding cos. through
which the public is interested in the de-
pressed group of Union Theatres. In
front of the £397,029 of share capital
are a mortgage of £38,000 and £777 com-
ing to sundry creditors. The Melba
Theatre freehold figures at £33,639 (it is
probably worth more than its book
value), and cash, debtors, etc., total
£4785. Chief asset is shares in Greater
Union, Australasian Films (Holdings),
Union Theatres (in liq.) and Australasian
Films (in liq.), in at £470,473. The
auditors say they accept no responsibility
for this figure. Shareholders’ funds
(capital and free reserves combined) total
£466,619.
Since 1929 no divs. have been received
from the operating cos., and Greater
J.D.W.’s shareholders have gone with-
out. Last year’s profit of £llO7 (down
£124), less than half of one per cent, on
capital, came from rents. The market
prices the fully-paid pound shares at
Bs. Id,, at which figure the return would
be 5 p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis. A 2 p.c.
div. would call for £7940. Since Greater
J.D.W. owns a 32.5 p.c. interest in the
operating cos., the latter would need to
pass on, through Greater Union and
Australasian Films (Holdings), a total
of £24,432 in divs. to cover that 2 p.c.
This appears to be within reach. For
the year to June 30, 1935, Greater Union
and its subsidiaries are. reported to have
netted about £26,000, and approximately
the same amount of profit is expected
for the 12 months to June 30 last. In
addition, there are the net earnings of
the Australasian Films (Holdings) group,
not disclosed. In ’33 and ’34 the aggre-
gate net earnings of this Films group
were £18,831 and £BB2l respectively. The
trouble is that the operating cos. cannot
distribute their profits at the moment
without permission of the bank, which
holds a debenture over the assets. At
June 30, 1934, their combined overdrafts
stood at £245,342. Recently the figure
was reported to be £46,000 below the
limit, whatever that may be.
A clear view of the position is ob-
scured by a network of interlocking cos.
When Union Theatres and Australasian
Films went into liquidation the four
holding cos. in which the public is inter-
ested formed another group, in which
they hold the same proportionate inter-
ests, to take over the assets. The various
organisations in the group are now
linked in this way:
Gtr. J. D,
Williams, Spencer’s, West’s, Amalgamated,
32.5 p.c. 26.7 p.c. 26.2 p.c. 14.6 p.c.
V - A ■—* '
I ]
Greater Australasian Films
Union (Holdings)
r J I \
Theatres Other British Cinesoimd National
in Theatres, Empire Productions. Theatres
Capital etc. Films. Supplies.
Cities.
Another unit in the Australasian stable
is Associated Distributors, Ltd. One
effect of this multiplication has been to
curb the power of the shareholding public
so far as effective control of the organi-
sation is concerned. Partly because of
this, there have been changes on Greater
J.D.W.’s board.
Stuart Doyle, who is associated with
all the directorates of the group,
reports offers of financial assistance from
overseas organisations and the sale in
London of “Thoroughbred” on behalf
of Cinesound. What the offer of assist-
ance amounts to has not been disclosed.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To R.e— Re —
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1926. . 25,003 7 p.c. = 29,570 6,925
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928.. 10,116 3 p.c. = 12,673 7,095
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
off ss. per share.
1929.. 33,346 10 p.c. = 28,161 5,185 12,280
1930.. 19,695 7 „ ~19,713 12,262
1931.. 14,168 5 „ „ 14,081 87 12,349
1932.. 18,651 5 „ „ 14,081 4,570 16,919
Surplus on liquidated subsidiary, £23,556.. 40,475
1933.. 15,984 54 p.c. = 15,489 495 40,970
1934.. 23,411 7 „ „ 19,713 3,698 44,668
1935.. 29,491 8 „ ~ 22,529 6,962 51,630
1936.. 22,575 8 „ „ 22,529 46 51,676
The co. provides the public with the
cheapest and one of the most efficient
transport services in the metropolis ; it
has built one of the best bathing en-
closures in the State, handy to its wharf,
on the harbor side of the Village ; con-
version of the Bellubera from steam to
Diesel-electric propulsion has reduced
both time of the journey and costs. All
this, together with growth of employ-
ment, increase in the number of new
houses in Manly, a cut of ss. per share
in capital in ’29 (the book value of the
fleet had been multiplied by three in
1920) and comfortable state of the
finances, gives the business a healthy
appearance. Still, the co. operates a public
utility, which makes it doubtful whether
anything better than 8 p.c. need be
looked for —under existing conditions, at
any rate.
During the last term the co.’s steamers
ran an aggregate of 225,316 miles, which
was a record. Still, a cool summer
affected excursion traffic, but the per-
centage of revenue from regulars was
the best yet. After maintaining the
steamers and plant in thorough repair
and providing for depreciation, etc., the
board wrote net earnings at £22,575, or
£B4 more than was claimed for the
previous year, when earnings benefited
by the Duke of Gloucester’s visit and
£7OOO dropped from somewhere into
reserves. Taking this into the reckoning,
there was a contraction of £6916 in last
year’s profit, which was a wink over 8
p.c. on capital as against 10.4, 8.3, 6.2,
6.6, 5, 6.9 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c.
The market, which expects a bit more,
prices the fully-paid 10s. shares at
20s, 3d. At that figure the return is 3.9
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div, basis, or 4.5 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. distribution. Visibly the net
tangible cover is 11s. 10d., which sug-
gests that assets are well worth their
book value.
What conversion of the Bellubera and
erection of new repair shops at Neutral
Bay cost is not disclosed. Fixed assets,
plus an unspecified amount of invest-
ments (an untidy entry), were up
£10,818:
1932. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Liquid assets £77,282 £9,489 £21,959 £15,010
Sundry
creditors.. 3,511 5,003 6,083 9,907
Surplus
liquids.. £73,771 £4,486 £15,876 £5,103
Fixed assets £236,655 £326,548*£328,635*£339,453*
* Includes investments.
The apparent drop in the more or less
liquid surplus was £10,773.
Wilsons (N.Z.) Portland Cement, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
liar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 93,022 10 p.c. = 60,000 33,022 96,357
1927.. 94,819 10 „ „ 60,000 34,819 131,176
1928.. 94,856 10 „ „ 60,000 34,856 166,032
1929.. 88,049 10 „ ~ 60,000 28,049 194,081
1930.. 91,783 124 „ 75,000 16,783 210,864
1931.. 75,833 124 „ „ 75,000 833 211,697
1932.. 64,287 10 „ ~ 60,000 4,287 215,984
1933.. 40,327 10 „ „ 60,000 196,311
1934.. 46,070 10 „ „ 30,000 16,070 212,381
1935.. 47,595 13f „ „ 41,250 6,345 218,726
1936.. 53,626 15 „ „ 45,000 8,626 227,352
Jubilee bonus of ss. per share, £150,000.. 77,352
The extraordinary success of this co.
has been due, among other things, to
the absence of serious competition and
maintenance of a vigorous public works
and other building programme. Thus,
despite slump, turnover has been rela-
tively well maintained, and there has
been no trade war, with its concomitant,
price-cutting. For seven years after the
co. amalgamated Wilsons Portland
Cement and another concern in 1918, it
paid a run of moderate divs. Mean-
while, it bought the Northern Coal Co.’s
mine at Hikurangi, the idea being to
further reduce costs. Also, additions
have been made to fixed assets, paid for
out of earnings, and then these assets
have been substantially written down
from the same source, while expanding
demand swelled turnover, to the benefit
of unit costs.
For the five years to the close
of accounts in 1930 divs. averaging
10.5 p.c. were paid from profits averag-
ing 15.2 p.c. on capital. Over the same
period the book value of fixed assets
was reduced by £139,338 net, and
£147,529 was visibly added to reserves.
Surplus earnings that became available
in this way were mostly invested out-
side the business in Government securi-
ties. In 1933 the co. was able to return
half its capital (reducing the figure to
£300,000 in 10s. shares) in Government
3y p.c. stock, maturing 1952, at a pre-
mium of £2 p.c. (face value), thus mak-
ing possible declaration of a rate of
dividend equal to twice what it would be
on the original capital, v/ith beneficial
effects on the market for the scrip.
With the improvement in industrial
activity, earnings are on the advance
again. Last year’s net result sprang
£6031, reaching 17.8 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 15.8 p.c. and 15.3 p.c. for
the two preceding terms. The div., 10
p.c. in ’34, was lifted from 13i p.c. to
15 p.c. In addition, a special bonus of
ss. per share (£150,000) was sent out to
celebrate the jubilee of the business.
That the co. can afford to make the
distribution without hamstringing itself
is plain from the following figures:
1925. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. 69,623 16,962 32,236 76,682
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 437,270 213,385 167,847 149,303
Investments .. 137,980 476,459 222,793 235,075
Stocks . . 45,622 9,236 15,675 23,130
Debtors .. 81,084 30,747 32,603 36,597
Cash.. .. 56,002 113,444 134,544 182,429
Cash alone (up £47,885) was £9929 more
than the final div. (£22,500) and jubilee
bonus (£150,000) called for. - Investments
are made up 'of Government securities
(£138,565), mortgages (£12,946), shares
in other cos. (£33,564) and the holding in
Wilson’s Collieries (£50,000). Allowing
for the final div. and bonus, shareholders
could still see a more or less liquid sur-
plus of £178,049, excluding shares in the
subsidiary, when the books closed.
The market discounts the future by
pricing the fully-paid 10s. shares at
41s. 6d. (295. 6d. two years ago), returning
3.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is 255. Id. in net tangibles.
The Government's financial proposals
have led to strong support for all sound
industrials in Maoriland,
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Ro- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 42,181 10 p.c. = 39,471 2,710 177,837
Transferred to capital, £48,986 .. 128,851
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41,920 11,583 140,434
1928.. 52,032 10 „ „ 44,370 - 7,662 148,096
1929.. 49,457 10 „ „ 44,370 ,5,087 153,183
1930.. 53,525 10 „ „ 44,370 9,155 162,338
1931.. 38,222 10 „ „ 44,370 156,190
1932.. 36,051 8 „ „ 35,496 555 156,745
1933.. 35,589 8 „ „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ „ 35,490 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 „ .35,496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 5,510 168,234
The business has developed with the
steady growth of settlement and produc-
tion on the N. S. Wales North Coast,
where the co, enjoys a monopoly of ship-
ping from Newcastle to the Queensland
border. Earnings depend mainly upon
shipment of dairy produce and the back-
loading of goods for storekeepers and
others. Though shareholders have never
skimmed much cream from the business,
they have had a long run of uninter-
rupted divs., and can now see 17s. 4d. of
every pound of paid capital invested
outside the business in Australian
Consols and on deposit. The div., 8 p.c.
early in the century, was lifted to 9 p.c.
in 1913, and to 10 p.c. in 1920; it re-
mained steady until 1932, since when it
has been at 8 p.c. again—fluctuations in
inter-State trade and the position in the
coal industry have had little effect upon
the business. The small capitalisation m
1926 —the only thing of its kind in the
co.’s history—makes 8 p.c. worth a shade
under 9 p.c. to old holders.
After making what looks like liberal
provision for depreciation, the board
figured net earnings for the last term at
£38,506, down £9lB—a little less butter
was carried. The difference between
that figure and the profit shown in the
table represents an unexplained addition
of £2500 to insurance reserve (now
£122,500). Including this addition —the
fleet is fully insured with outside under-
writers in the ordinary way —the year’s
net result was 9.2 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 9.2, 8.1, 8, 8.1, 8.6, 12 and
11.1 p.c. back to 1929.
That was after reducing the book
value of ship property by £22,953, equal
to 9.7 p.c. of the book value at June 30,
1935 ; no mention is made of any sales:
1926. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £394,714 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities .. 40,802 30,859 60,873 40,171
Ships . . .. 393,689 298,238 235,305 212,352
Freeholds, etc. 36,487 35,859 19,920 16,920
Liquids ... 202,913 818,837 419,819 440,581
Liquids were strengthened by £20,762,
making the surplus over outside liabili-
ties £400,410 (up £31,464), or nearly 20s.
in the pound of paid capital.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares, visibly covered by 275. 7d. in net
tangibles, at 41s. 6d. as against 425. a
year ago. At the lower figure the return
is 3.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div., basis, or
4.3 p.c. should the distribution be lifted
to 9 p.c.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 13,655 9 p.c. = 13,500 155 47,479
1927.. 7,553 4 ~ „ 6,000 1553 49.032
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929.. 3,145 Nil 3145 54,020
1930.. 409 Nil 409 54,429
Loss.
1931.. 29,990 Nil 24,439
1932.. 19,508 Nil 4,931
Deficit.
Assets written . down, £72,431 .. 67,500
Reserves.
Capital written off, £75,000 .. 7,500
1933.. 2,324 Nil 5,176
Profit.
1934.. 2,662 3 p.c. = 2,250 412 5,588
1935.. 3,022 3 „ „ 2,250 772 6,360
193(5.. 3,238 4 „ ~ 3,000 238 6,598
The figures in that table reflect the trials
and tribulations of the timber trade over
the last decade. For 20 years after the
public became interested in 1905, Taylors
was a steady 10 p.c. proposition. Then
the age of steel and concrete and further
competition from imported timbers
altered the outlook, and net earnings
averaged only 3.5 p.c. on £150,000 of
capital for the five years to the close of
accounts in 1930, as against 10.5 p.c.
for the preceding quinquennium. Slump
worsened the position, and in 1932 half
the capital was jettisoned, reducing it to
£75,000, in order to rub out trading losses
and bring the book value of assets more
into line with their earning power.
The corner was turned in ’34, thanks
to the revival in building, and the physi-
cal volume of the co.’s turnover has
continued to expand since. Still, the
management was able to squeeze only
£216 more profit out of last year’s trad-
ing, the £3238 netted being 4.3 p.c.
on capital as it now stands. The div.
was lifted a point, making if 4 p.c.,
which is worth only half that to old
holders.
Prospects are more encouraging than
they have been for some lime, the co.’s
mills are all situated in good forest
areas, there is nothing to worry about
in the finances, and there is only half
the capital there used to be to feed.
Chief trouble is the still-overcrowded
state of the industry. The market notes
this and prices the lOs.-paid shares at
Bs, 3d. as against Bs. a year ago. At
Bs. 3d. the return is 4.8 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 10s. lOd. in net
tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital . . .. £150,000 £75,000 £75,600
Liabilities . . .. 40,482 43,951 44,940
Country mills, etc. . . 08,016)
City wharves, freeholds, !■ 35,689 35,631
mills, plant, etc. . . 13,531 J
Vessels 12,940 1 0,050 10,750
Book debts, etc. . . 34,912 37,585 36,641
Stocks .. •. . .. 22.321 31,035 ' 33,896
Cash, investments, etc. 43,693 13,202 12,621
To carry an extra £2861 of stocks and
add £7OO net to the book value of vessels,


Fine as a fine liqueur
•
m
mmt
■ u V. «£«
*?****' lls }f , u uok»« m *«*
, ‘ *?* ***• t|*« mi fc* &m
i?ro hows*' rn;.-*»
«** £?J** * COAr.it »«***>
(h '/ Y - **»•■*• rtvs wtatfr j*.****#
*> "T* : ' i'»'J'f«!i«.: *r»| Vt*fe*W
. , <!l *h* .!!>«»> ■■ ■ ■' - ' '■ -: ',-v
■ fi Nfei;<V
I uJSIKTf HO»St OISTHMSS ItO-
#w «<*„»*■ £Nttw*
SwS MBWOT
*** * ts
« -,<i }>". n
'•''■> ,»? j*
r*P
#*pi
Fjpime that brings changes, years that
mellow and make kind, crept quietly
over the cellars where this White Horse
whisky slept. While it grew gentle and
d
genial; while it grew gracefully old. .. Untouched and unhurried
it waited and waited . . till full, rich aroma was fined to perfect-
ion; till fire was subdued to a deep, tender glow; till smoothness
and softness were velvet and dew. Until it could come to your
glass and your palate, as fine as a fine liqueur.
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
WH 9-36
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale .


A SUKE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
-<■
k 2
m
W&i
<3
><■;
•^c
—feS
:<| V
<Vv£
Thief of a child's
EDUCATION
THE A.M.P. Society has a way of helping fathers
to send their boys (or girls) to the University,
Fathers and mothers with young children should let
the nearest A.M.P. office explain the way to them.
The best age at which to begin planning for a boy’s
career is when he is born. At that age a man can,
without it costing him more than his tobacco, ensure
that there will be £75 or £l 00 a year available to his son
for the years that he is at a University; ensure it in
such a way that the arrangement will stand, even
though he (the father) die the next day.
If the boy (or girl) should not elect to go to a University,
and should prefer to go into business (or the girl to marry),
the Society will pay a lump sum instead. Many a young man
has had a good start in business with the proceeds of an
A.M.P. policy as capital, and many a girl has had a goodly
marriage dowry, as the result of a fathers forethought when
they were toddlers.
Parents would do well to ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send
an experienced adviser to talk this matter over with them;
either that or to send for booklets. Procrastination may be
the thief, not only of time, but of a child’s education.
AMP.
C. A* ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
SOCIETY
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Wanted.
CYANIDER. —Competent man with metallurgi-
cal experience required. Apply with details
of experience and testimonials and stating
salary required to “Cyanide,” Box 74, Young.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES I
..
* if? s
Mj *1
■
I
%
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. ~ 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
13 Spring Street, Sydney.
the co. went outside for an extra £lO6B.
Including stocks, there was little change
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£38,218).
Base Metals
More stable conditions in France and
Belgium, continued activity in the con-
structional trades, both in Europe and
America, and the projected expenditure
on armaments in Britain and elsewhere
were reflected in a sharp rise in the
London price of base metals last week.
Lead shot up from £l5 10s. to £l6 7s. 6d.,
spelter from £l3 Bs. 9d. to £l3 155., and
electrolytic copper from £4l ss. to £42 ss.
per ton, while tin hovered around £l9O.
The market closed at the week-end with
an easier tendency.
Locally the London price movements
were reflected in a firmer market for
Barrier stocks. Souths rose from
£5 12s. 6d. to £5 155., Zinc Corp. ords.
from 80s. to 81s. 3d,, while Norths held
around £8 19s. The wide margin
between the price for North and
South scrip (each £1 face value) is due
largely to North’s decision to reopen
the British section of the lode. This
means a bigger output, with prospects
of a lift in the div. later on. At £8 19s,
Norths return 7.7 p.c. on a quarterly dis-
tribution of 3s, 6d, a share. Souths at
£5 15s. yield 8.6 p.c. on 2s. 6d. a share
quarterly, and Zinc Corp. lOs.-paid ords.
at 81s. 3d. return 5.5 p.c, on the basis of
last year’s distribution (45 p.c.)—the final
was at the rate of 50 p.c. p.a. Mt. Lyell
has paid an interim 6d., and is expected
to send out a final Is., including 6d.
from its fertiliser interests. At 275. 6d.
the pound shares would yield 5.4 p.c. on
a 7j p.c. div. basis. Uncertainty con-
cerning satisfactory renewal of the inter-
national restriction agreement over-
shadows the tin market. Here some
high yields are obtainable on the basis
of current prices and last year’s distri-
butions.
With the assistance of Selection Trust,
London, and Pardners Mines Corp.,
U.S.A., J. Ward Williams has organised
a prospecting expedition to hunt for gold-
dredging areas in Central Papua. In New
York he bought a Sikorsky amphibian
’plane, which has been shipped to Syd-
ney, where it will be assembled about
the middle of next month, and then
flown by Flight-Lieut. Campbell, with
Williams as passenger, to a base on
the Fly River. The rest of the party,
including J. Bourke, W. Corn, J. Kinsle,
wireless-operator Brown and some 25
native boys, left Port Moresby last week
with four months’ supplies in a 30-ton
boat for a base a long way up the Fly
River.
* * * *
“Ex-Prospector”: The North Austra-
lian Mineral Survey Committee’s decision
to make an aerial survey of the Cape
York Peninsula (N.Q.) will be applauded
by all who know the area. During the
last 18 months or so more than £20,000
worth of gold has been won by a hand-
ful of miners in the Weymouth Bay dis-
trict. At the Blue Mountains, north-east
of Coen, a co. is opening up what looks
like a promising new discovery; some of
the richest stone N.Q. has known has
been crushed from this region. Further
south, in the Ebagoolah district, encour-
aging results have been obtained. In
the early days it was not unusual for
a bos. to drift into Coen, Ebagoolah and
Cooktown from the Peninsula wilds with
valuable gold nuggets, but they would
never tell where they found them. It
was one such abo. who led the way to
the Blue Mountains field three years ago.
The Peninsula may yet become Queens-
land’s richest gold-bearing area. The
Mines Department is giving prospectors
every assistance. Drawbacks are the
absence of telegraph and postal facilities,
and the difficulties of obtaining transport
and supplies.
* * * *
The old Hodgkinson goldfield (N.Q.),
noted in the ’eighties for its 27 pubs
which did a roaring trade on the strength
of Boz. and lOoz. crushings, looks like
having a new lease of life. Queensland
Gold Development Syndicate, represent-
ing overseas interests, has 50-odd men
at work there. The old Tyrconnel, rich-
est of the early-day mines, has been de-
watered, and an Bft. lode at No. 6 level
is receiving attention. The co, also in-
tends to investigate the General Grant
and Britannia, both rich producers of
years ago.
♦ * * *
Unsatisfactory working of the new
dredge—it closed down on July 16, and
a new bucket band may be necessary—
has put Cocks Eldorado off its putt.
During the 10 weeks since the dredge
set in 239,600 c.y. has been treated for
12.6 tons of concentrates, yielding
approx. 1440 z. smelted gold and six tons
tin concentrates, together expected to
realise £2056 ; costs were 3d. per yard.
About 65 p.c. of the ground treated was
drift sand and sludge, and it was found
uneconomic to reduce the concentrates
fully. Two areas at Reedy Creek (Vic.)
are being worked ; one, of 5,000,000 c.y,,
was expected to average 12.6 d., and the
other, containing 6,000,000 c.y., 9d. per
yard, with gold at £8 an ounce and tin
at £2BO a ton —last week the latter was
around £l9O. The board is considering
raising fresh share-money at par. Present
nominal capital is £150,000 in 10s. shares,
of which 250,000 have been issued and
are fully paid. The market prices them
at 9s, 3d, apiece,
* * *
Western Mining, N.L., is being put
off the stocks in Melbourne with £5OOO
of capital in £5 shares to treat the old
Ravensthorpe (W.A.) dumps. The 10,000
tons of tailings and 4000 tons of slimes
available assay 6dwt. 23gr. and up to
19gr. respectively, Kalgoorlie School of
Mines experiments show that a 75 p.c.
recovery is possible by leaching. Treat-
ment, it is estimated, will take a year,
and £lOOO is expected to bring
the show to the dividend stage.
Based on a 50 p.c, recovery, a total
profit of £ll,OOO is spoken of. Public
is offered 600 shares, 250 f.-ps. go to the
option-holder and 50 f.-ps. to the pro-
moter, leaving 100 shares in reserve. If
the assays referred to are realised, the
vendor also stands to receive 10s. 6d. a
ton royalty, or proportionately in the
case of lower assays. Negotiations are
in train for the acquisition of 1,000,000
tons of tailings in Victoria.
» * * *
During the last few months there has
been a falling off in the average grade
of ore treated at Wiluna (W.A.). This
is due to poorer ore coming from the
main workings of the east lode. The
board regards it as “one of those tem-
porary fluctuations that have been ex-
perienced previously, not only on the
east lode but also on other main lodes."
Still, continuance suggests that the occur-
rence may be more extensive than it was
thought to be. To counteract the effect
upon earnings, more ore is being drawn
from the west lodes. When it gets into
full swing, the new smelting plant, the
first units of which are expected to be in
operation at the end of August, should
give p. and 1. figures a nice lift. Delivery
of the new plant was delayed by a strike
of transport workers. In June the co.
milled a record 47,850 tons for 10,0460 z.
fine gold. Including 3s. 9d. for develop-
ment, costs were 20s. lid. a ton. The
working profit was £36,430 in Australian
currency.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) figured its ore
reserves at the end of 1935 around the
700,000-ton mark, but the grade (6.86dwt.)
was half a ’weight down on that of a
year earlier. For the 12 months to the
end of ’35, 128,990 tons ore and 3141
tons clean-up stuff were treated for an
average recovery of 8.52dwt.; costs were
pulled back 7s. 2d. to 31s. lid. Develop-
ments in the X, B and West Boundary
lode zones have disclosed “highly pay-
able ore of considerable extent.” It is
now expected that ore production will
keep pace with the increased capacity of
the mill. Here alterations now in pro-
gress are expected to result in better
extraction.
* * * *
From an old Coolgardie man:
“Welt, the gold is there, but I’m hanged if
it ought to be there” was the paradox of
geologist Btatchford four years ago when he
had examined the Jumberdine (W.A.) lode.
Since then developments have revealed a well-
defined ore-body that runs along a hillside for
half a mile, and the geological conditions con-
tinue beyond present workings. Alluvial tail-
ings at the south-eastern end run down to the
Jumpcrdine brook, and are evidence of fos-
sickers’ success. Shallow shafts, potholes and
a T tunnel into the hill have all testified to the
presence of gold, values running from 7dwt.
to over 2oz. Fifty tons sent to Kalgoorlie
returned 15dwt. per ton over the plates. Fifty
tons from one of the shafts is gauged to
go an ounce per ton, and 500 tons from the
tunnelling is reckoned to go 9dwt. per ton.
Isolated assays are much higher. Present Gov-
ernment Geologist Fordham got 2oz. per ton
from four feet of lode in the tunnel, besides
good “pan” samples. His report (Nov., 1935)
is encouraging, and he advises systematic boring
from the top of the plateau to test the lode
and possible parallel ore-bodies. A goldfield
40 miles from Perth would be a new sensation,
and it is not impossible that Jumperdine (12
miles south-east of Toodyay) may fill the bill.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.J.C.: Don’t know the co. It is not one
of the bigger concerns. Forestry bonds are
a speculative investment T.H.: See last
week’s Bulletin. It looks a doubtful proposi-
tion A.A.: Unknown here. Keep out of
it W.P. (B.B.): Sorry; haven’t seen the
prospectuses... .M.J.M.: If they are first-issue
bonds, write to Bondholders’ Incorporation
Commission, Room 5, Government Buildings,
Wellington, N.Z., and state your position. It is
probably the best thing to do in any case.
There is no regular market for the bonds. The
first issue are more valuable than later issues.
F.F.H.: If the bonds were bought through
the Stock Exchange, they carry the right
to accrued interest until the day such interest
is payable. On that day dealings are ex
interest. If the coupon wasn’t attached in your
case, you should ask your broker to recover for
you... .Gordon : Haven’t seen a recent balance
sheet. Might be worth while waiting a year
or two.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth' and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B.' Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt,
* ■ * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L, MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. —Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money 1 Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, .Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our 1935 General
Catalogue.— Advt.


... Yes, as I was saying, Fred, it was at the 13th at
the Larks Course the day after it opened—let's
see, that'd be way back in '29—'3o—no, '3l. . . .
I walked straight up to the tee —smacked my pill
down didn't tee up, y'understand no practice
swings—and hit her sweet and true with the dead
centre of the old club head—following through like
Jim Ferrier—263 yards she whizzed, straight as a
die—my iron shot was a humdinger—pin high on
the green—PUTT, I putted like Archie Compston—
birdie three for the hole .. .then on the fourteenth...
gosh it's certainly
TIME FOR A
APSTAN
Special Mild
Medium or Full
CORK FIPPtD
fd
AND PLAIN
5193-6-6.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lapis”: “Funny,” said Charlie, “to
think that a man could once get trans-
ported for trapping them in the Old
Country.” He spat reflectively as the
truckload of underground mutton sped
on towards Melbourne. “My grandad
used to keep a trap in his garden in Eng-
land for the hares that came lookin’ for
a taste of young lettuce. He had a string
so arranged that when a hare got caught
a bell rang inside. Cunnin’, it was. O’
course people got to know about it,
and one evenin’ the gamekeeper had tea
with the old man and stayed to chat.
‘Excuse me a minute,’ says grandad as
the bell begins to ring. But the game-
keeper toilers him out, so grandad picks
up the hare deliberately, takes a switch
an’ lathers it. As he chucks it over the
fence he says, ‘Them I belts seldom
comes back.’ We always was a resource-
ful family,” says Charlie.
* * * *
“The Poker”: Can any district claim
as many kingfisher species as Proser-
pine (Q.)? Of the ten Australian species
eight occur here, the only absentees
being the little and the yellow-billed.
Rarest is the beautiful white-tailed, found
only in the mountain jungles.
* * * *
“Cochon”: Paddy sat down on his
stretcher and bent down to take off his
boots. “Hey, Bill!” he shouted. “Did
ye bring them pliers back from the
fence?” “Naw, I clean forget ’em again.”
Bill surveyed his tie-wire laces gloomily,
then swung his feet up. “Well, here goes
for another night in bed with the boots
on!”
* * * *
“Ornis”; That school of naturalists
which maintains that animals work on in-
herited instincts and never learn to vary
habits or methods in the light of experi-
ence might consider the modern lyrebird.
The fowl used to build its nest on the
ground or within a few feet of it, because
of its poor flight. The introduction of
the fox, deadly enemy of the bird and
its nestlings, has changed all that. The
birds are now beginning to build their
nests in trees too high for the fox to
reach them. One recently in Victoria
put its dwelling in the fork of a
tree lOOff. from the ground. To reach
this it has to flutter in stages, helped by
near-by trees with convenient branches.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: I lately received a letter
asking me to furnish the writer with a
Torres Strait mummy for which he was
willing to pay a fiver. I was sorry to
have to decline the offer. It’s a good
many years since the Islanders went in
for mummifying their deceased relatives,
although some good specimens of their
work may be seen in Brisbane Museum.
According to Professor Elliot Smith,
these Torres Strait mummies display
proof of the Egyptian origin of the
methods employed, and reveal a series
of curious procedures, which began in
Egypt in the eighteenth dynasty, such as
that for removing the brain.
* * * *
“Falstaff”; Old Joe was up before the
magistrate again on a charge of drunken-
ness. “You’re filthy!” thundered the
beak. “How long do you wear your
shirt?” “Well, y’r ’Onor,” blushed Joe,
“not quite down to me knees in front, an’
a little bit longer behind.”
* * * *
“Del Norte”: It was off Redscar Head
(Papua). All day the engine had been
misbehaving, and when finally it conked
out 1 settled down to a little fishing.
Almost immediately I felt a slow, per-
sistent drag, the unmistakable “feel” of
something big and heavy. Then the rod
dipped, the reel screamed, and 1 struck
hard. “Big fella clono” (groper), the
coxswain yelled. An hour passed, and
1 was still fast to my fish, but he was
sulking stubbornly on the bottom, defy-
ing all my efforts to prise him loose. The
engine began to make reassuring noises.
“ Captain , what a funny place to have electric fans!
The engineer came topside, and I handed
the rod to him while I took a bracer
below. I shall never forget the expres-
sion in that groper’s eye as he came
floating, belly upwards, to the surface-
accompanied by a miscellaneous assort-
ment of lesser fry. That scoundrelly engi-
neer had slipped a running bowline over
my line, weighted with a half-plug of
60 p.c. gelignite.
H: % %
“Tauwarra”: In the days when a light
railway served the smelters at Bootless
(Papua) a young buck, returning from a
village “sing-sing,” spread his mat across
the rails and went to sleep. This is how
his mate described to the magistrate the
discovery of the tragedy: “I walk ’long
track li’li bit, taubada; I find’m hand
b’long Bili; I walk li’li bit more I find’m
two-fella leg b’long Bili; I walk li’li
bit more I find’ra head b’long Bili. I
say ‘This Bili bin get a trouble, I t’ink
so.
* * * *
“Showman”: The common crayfish
which roams the Westralian coast from
Fremantle to Geraldton has for years
been deceiving us. Known to the scien-
tific world as P. penicillatus (Olivier), it
is now discovered that its correct name
is Panulirus longpipes (M.-Ed). The
astounding revelation has set Westralian
fishshop-owners bursting into tears over
the unwitting deception they’ve practised
for so long on customers, and chaotic
conditions threaten the industry.
* * * *
“Boomerang”: “Woorak” (B. 24/6/’36)
must have “proof-fenced” a lucerne pad-
dock for his burrless bunnies. I’ve
slaughtered thousands of the furry pests
in three States, and the burr collections
would have turned West Darling
“starvers” green with envy. “Woorak s
rabbits may have had better manners, or
perhaps their faultless clobber was the
result of reciprocal burrings in their sub-
terranean boudoirs.
“Speeding Parson”: Who said that
rabbits didn’t get burrs in their fur?
Starting out to trap bunnies when soft
from the city, I often scratched my hands
on corkscrew seeds embedded in and
through the skin. Brer R. didn’t pick
them up after he was trapped, for I've
seen the same thing in rabbits killed by
gun.
* * * *
“Raorut”: “Th’ narrerest squeak I
ever ’ad in a mine,” said old Bill, “was
in th’ ol’ Bird-in-Hand in Bendigo,
4000 ft. deep. I was takin’ er case uv 90
p.c. N.G. dynamite down one day. The
cage ’ad ’ardly started ter move when th’
flamin’ rope broke, an’ the blasted grip-
pers wouldn’t ’old th’ skids. So there
was me on a non-stop joyride ter th’
bottom with th’ dynamite ter comfit me.
Well, I keeps me ’ead an’ thinks mighty
quick. There was only one thing fer it.
At No. 10 level I takes a' chanst an’
’eaves th’ case out. It come orf. The
case flip-flops about th’ plat, then ’ops
down th’ ladder compartment. ’Avin’
extra impotence frum th’ force I puts
inter the throw, it beats me down ter
the bottom by a couple of levels. Th’
explosion saved me life. Th’ blow up
th’ shaft cushions th’ fall uv th’ cage an’
gives th’ grippers time to get inter action.
Th’ nasty part erbout it, though, was
when th’ boss threatens ter dock th’
price uv the dynamite from me pay.”
$ $ $ *
“Lustre”: The discovery of some
mussel pearls near Sydney has moved
fish-expert D. G. Stead to say that
mussel pearls are worthless. I am travers-
ing the statement. For centuries valuable
pearls have been taken from mussels in
the Scottish rivers. “Muscle” Shoals, on
the Mississippi, now famous for a great
hydro-electric plant, were originally
“Mussel Shoals,” and for years large
quantities of mussels were dredged from
them for their pearl content. The pearls
of the Trobriand Islands in Papua were
—I cannot speak for to-day —once
famous for their quality and their color-
ing, Continental firms sending buyers
every year to look over the season’s
catch taken by the Greeks who mono-
polised this trade. These pearls were
taken, not from the m.o.p, oyster, but
from a sea-mussel called by the natives
who “skin-dived” for them “lapi-lapi.”
* * * *
“Duggai”: I read that two dentists
have got into the news in Hungary by
pulling out teeth “painlessly” with
finger and thumb. Jimmy Ah Lee prac-
tised this form of extraction in N.Q. for
years, and. nobody was excited. Jifnmy
was “trained” to draw teeth by pulling
out pegs driven into a board. In time
he developed sufficient finger strength
by driving nails into the board and
pulling them out, increasing the depth of
the nail each time. I have seen him
press a nerve on the patient’s temple with
one hand while the ivory was removed
in an instant with the other.
* * * *
“Bimbo”: A new way of catching
rabbits. While Tony Street, of Derrinal-
lum (Vic.), was casting a fishing-line, a
rabbit jumped up near by and the hook
pierced its back. The rabbit ran the
line out and finally escaped.
* * * #
“Stan”: A plague of wrigglers had hit
our Castlereagh (N.S.W.) district. The
boss’s wife had invited
a crowd of sheilahs
over to tennis, and me
and Joe was just linin’
the court when they
turned up. Suddenly
there was a commotion
as a big brown snake
hops out of the net
they was unrollin’. Joe
was level with him in
two jumps, and the big
skite grabs the Sexton
Blake by the tail with a
grin to impress the
females and cracks him
like a whip. That snake
was broke up all right,
and all hands was soon
lookin’ for the head
part, which had flicked
clean off. Next thing
Joe gives a strangled
yell and starts un-
dressin’. Nestlin’ as
sweet as you like be-
tween Joe’s o.s. flannel
and his heavin’ chest
was the missin’ head.
The tabs scattered.
* * *
“Walkabout”: There’s
more unpalatable tucker
in the bush than an
emu steak. Flood-
bound near Cooper
Waters (s.-w. Q.), four
of us, meat-hungry,
tackled the only game
available —a lean old
emu. Boiled, the meat was tasteless
—the boss reckoned it reminded him of
horseflesh —but when grilled little fault
was found with steaks cut from the fowl’s
hindquarters. If pushed again and the
choice offered, I’d prefer an emu or a
brolga grill to the choicest cut from any
marsupial, Too tail not excepted.
* * * *
“Plankton”; The suggestion that an
octopus could or would even attempt to
prey on giant clams is certainly a reflec-
tion on the most intelligent of all mol-
lusca. The octopus family subsist mainly
on crabs and other crustacea. Many
whelks and their kin habitually tackle
other mollusca by rasping a hole in the
shell of their prey, but I have never
seen a giant clam or other of this thick-
shelled family showing perforations from
this cause. Some fishes of large size have
extraordinarily powerful pavements of
crushing teeth for grinding up shellfish,
but even a fair-sized clam would give
any of them toothache.
* * * *
“Al F.”: An hour ago I was sitting by
the side of the road listening to a thou-
sand ewes with about half that number
of lambs at foot as they ambled past.
From out of all the din not one bleat
could I hear that resembled either
“Eureka’s” “Baa” (B. l/7/’36) or
“F.Y.Ts” “Me-h-h” (B. 8/7/’36). The
call is more like “M-m-m-ah-r.”
* * * *
“Tertator”: When I investigated sundry
scufflings and squeaks from an orange-
tree in the yard, I found a fair-sized
green frog trying to swallow a silver-
eye almost its own size. The croaker
had the bird by the wing, and was start-
ing on a mouthful of feathers when I
did the rescuing act.
NEW GROUND.
Scrub and sapling, stump and spar, fern and
shattered log,
Timbered ridge and marshy pool, where the
cattle bog,
Bark and twigs and littered leaves, rotting
where they fall
Back into the ancient earth, mother of them all.
Mew ground, laying up its store
Age on age with patient toil,
Hoarding in its mellow soil
Riches from its forest spoil
Never tilled before.
Clatter of the hard-flung axe, echoes from the
hill;
Rhythmic whining of the saws where the bush
was still;
Sweep and crash of falling trees, clink of
tightening chain
As the bullocks strain and wheel in and out
again.
New ground, waking from its sleep
To the throbbing of the axe.
Drone of saws and clink of jacks,
Screech of wagon brakes on tracks,
Rough and raw and steep.
Crackling in the undergrowth, flickers through
the fern;
Maelstrom flaring black and red as the saplings
burn;
Smoke and cinder in the sky, smoke and flame
below;
Tall trees laced in dancing gold, log and stump
aglow.
New ground, swept and scarred with pain,
What with leaves and twigs that screamed,
Dancing sparks that showered and streamed,
Fires that roared and glared and gleamed,
Charred and cleansed again!
Creaking of the swingletrees where the saplings
burned;
Red soil flowing from the discs, crushed and
torn and turned;
Golden seed upon the soil; sunshine, cloud
and rain;
Then the recompense for toil, harvest-time
again!
New ground, yielding up its store.
From its wealth of forest mould
Giving back a hundredfold
Tribute with its harvest gold
Never paid before.
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNET.


“Old-timer”: The boss was present
one lazy Sunday morning when an argu-
ment developed on the best bait for
catching Murray cod. “FT big fish,
gimme a lump o’ rabbit’s meat,” asserted
One-bottle Joe, an old whaler. “Garn,
a plucked sparrer’ll beat that holler,”
argued young Snowy. The dispute waxed
hot, vociferous and bitter. Finally the
boss offered 10s. for the biggest fish
caught between noon and sundown that
day. All hands went to the river. One-
bottle borrowed a rabbit from the
trapper, baited his hook with a lump of
it, cast and sat down. Snowy shot a
sparrow and used it, plucked. Others
used what was available or their fancy
dictated. It was a drowsy day ; even the
fish must have felt it. Just before sun-
down, old Joe stirred, muttered some-
thing about “not bitin’,” and began to
pull his line in. The next instant he was
up, all alertness, and pulling cannily,
while the hands gathered round. “That’s
no cod ; it’s a catfish,” said someone as
the line darted this way and that. Joe
rejected proffered assistance; his old
eyes gleamed as the line whizzed back
and forth, darted, swung, slackened and
jerked. There was a gasp as something
flashed out of the water and dived from
sight. They held their breaths as the fight
increased, and the boss was feeling for
a half-note as Joe finally jerked from
the water a gleaming, slithering petrol tin
lid, with his hook through the handle in
its centre.
“Nimau”: Strange finds? A farm-
hand was digging postholes at Stratford
fM.L.) when he encountered what at first
sight appeared to be soft yellow clay, but
which proved on investigation to be a
401 b. cheese. Though it must have been
buried for several years, heroic samplers
deemed it to be of rich flavor and excel-
lent body.
■i- * * *
“Ida D.”: Sydney’s Zoo has lately
received from Eustace Dawson a pair of
the rare pale-headed (Moreton Bay)
rosellas. They were taken when babies
from a nest on the \Varrego (Q.), and
at first were reared on porridge and bran,
slightly damped. Though tree-seed eaters
since their porridge days, they have been
fed on nothing but plain birdseed. These
birds vary in their plumage coloring:
from pale sky-blue on the chest, as this
pair is, to a canary-yellow.
* * He #
“Dai”: Modernity has spoilt the out-
back for huskies who like life in the
raw; the aerial mail puts the city store
next door and a tummy-ache brings the
flying doc. ’planing down into the night-
horse paddock. In the days when we
pickled the germs in our insides with
O.P. rum, a station’s medical supplies
consisted of chlorodyne and Cockle’s
pills. In my verdant youth I was left
in charge of the store when the other
hands were mustering. A mysterious ail-
ment broke out in the blacks’ camp,
whose weird and diverse symptoms re-
sponded only to large doses of chloro-
dyne ; only when stocks were running
low did I tumble to the fact that it was
90 p.c. proof spirit! The next sufferer
had to swallow a handful of pills, and I
experimented on others with blue-black
ink with outstanding success. The out-
break disappeared rapidly.
* * * *
“Miss Bungarrer”: Knitting is nearly
as much a man’s game as a woman’s (B.
20/6/’36), but what about the miner at
the Golden Mile who sends me an
annual gift of a worked apron? Bathing
girls and Sturt desert peas are all worked
in beautifully, and I can’t fault the blend-
ing of the colors.
“Tid’apa”: Waterfalls may be rare in
Centralia and the Territory, but they are
a real danger when they occur. Only
newchums camp in hollows or depres-
sions when the dry season is expected to
break. I did it once —10 miles past the
Howard —and was just settling down
when I received a visit from Oscar Her-
“ Quick , Henry, hold the baby! I've forgot something. '
“ It's no good, Emma — YOU couldn't carry the stove!"
bert, of Koolpinyah. In no uncertain
tones he advised me to get out at once,
and helped me to shift camp a hundred
yards to a slight rise. No rain fell where
1 camped that night, but it must have
come down in torrents somewhere.
Before daylight a 20-foot wall of water
swept down across where I had pre-
viously had my camp. Much the same
thing may have happened to Leichhardt
and his men.
“O. de V.”: “De Bee” says kangaroos
never get out of a netted paddock (B.
8/7/’36). They may not tackle a netting
fence as casually as the plain wire fence
which in their joeyhood they learned to
negotiate by slithering between the wires,
and this factor .may prevent a mob of
’roos of mixed sizes from migrating en
masse. But I have seen all sorts of ’roos—
kanga and walla—fly netting fences with-
out the slightest hesitation. I have dis-
entangled others in various stages of life
and death whose miscalculations of the
jump had left them hanging head down-
ward after making a Spanish windlass
of the top wires with their hindlegs.
* * * *
“Western”: How many realise the
value of a good growth of rushes, bul or
otherwise, in and around a waterhole
or dam in the dry areas? Out south-east
from Boulder (W.A.) is a claypan which
Can you tell me anything you noticed about the car —anything at all P”
“Yes; un were a fower-wheeler”
holds water long after every other drop
in the vicinity has evaporated. The
secret is a thin growth of rushes all over
its shallow basin. At every hour of the
day a rush casts a shadow from some
angle: multiply this by a million or so
and the thin pencil of shade becomes a
cover which slows evaporation to a mini-
mum. No trouble obtaining seed for
planting, since both the bulrush and the
common rush seed prolifically.
“Laetitia”; Binghi is capable of pro-
ducing a school of howlers entirely
his own, especially Torres Strait Island
children, when given range of a dic-
tionary. One dusky and diminutive
scholar described his unequalled prowess
at knocking down “sarcastic” coconuts,
the adjective being derived from the
dictionary definition of the term as mean-
ing “dry” or “caustic.” Another unwit-
tingly coined a truism with the aid of
Webster by propounding that “Honesty
is the best contract of insurance.”
“First Blue”: Include among the
enemies of our native fish the fox and
the water-rat. Up on the Gisborne
Creek (Vic.) I saw three foxes making
a meal off a three-pound trout which had
been isolated in a pool during the summer
months. If a comparatively fast-moving
fish like the imported trout falls a victim
to Reynard, what chance has the slower-
moving native species, particularly the
southern blackfish? Water-rat trappers
along the irrigation channels in north-
ern Vic. frequently see them tearing at
the juicy flesh of a helpless Murray cod.
“Mat’s Mate”: Broke in Pinnaroo (S.A.-
Vic. border), we dug up a cove who
wanted some scrub cut on a block out
near the dispute fence. He grub-staked
us and supplied slashers, so we humped
them and the knots seven miles through
the scrub, following his directions to a
hill with a hut and an old ship’s tank on it.
According to our usual practice of doing
the worst first, we waded into the thickest
of the whipstick for five days, wondering
why our employer hadn’t turned up to
see how we were getting on. He arrived
early on the sixth morning, surveyed the
work (30 acres at ss. an acre), and said,
“I’ve bin lookin’ everywhere for you
coves. Thought y’ must’ve changed y’
minds about the job.” “But we bin here
all the flamin’ week,” said Mat, puzzled.
“So I see,” said our boss, “but this ain’t
my block.” Somehow we managed to
beat down the sick feeling and gasped,
“But the tank, the hut, the hill?” “Yairs,”
he said gloomily, “but my block’s on the
other side of the hill.” Easy enough to
happen in that country. “Here,” roared
Mat suddenly, “who does own this
block?” “An English bloke!” “Where
does he live?” “In London, I reckon ;
his name’s Windsor.” We’d done a
week’s work on Crown land !
* * $ *
“Centre”: The crow doesn’t annoy
graziers only. Poultry-farmers in the
Glenfield (N.S.W.) district pay heavily
for his predilection for eggs, which the
black thief collects from outlying nests.
You can’t get near him with a gun; Tie’s
too wideawake for traps to be of any
use ; he knows too much to touch a bait.
One man is trying poisoned eggs,
drilling a small hole, injecting strychnine
and then smearing the hole with plaster
of Paris. Results up to date are nil; the
poisoned eggs remain untouched, and
Kelly comes and goes as usual. It’s my
belief he can smell that the treated eggs
have been handled—he’d hardly suspect
the small pencil cross marked on the
pointed end of the shell for safety.
“D.C.R.”: It is hard to poison crows
if you employ strychnine for the job.
Crows find strychnine useful as an
emetic if they suspect stomach trouble,
and it also has useful tonic qualities, as
they are well aware. Those which one
contributor observed turning handsprings
after a course of grubs-cnm-strychnine
were merely indulging in a few physical
jerks to whet their appetites for the next
corpse. If you want results use a corro-
sive poison, such as phosphorus, smeared
in cuts on a carcass, or on lumps of meat
or fat on the skin thereof. The action
is slow but sure, and does not alarm the
other diners until too late.
'Jr- Jr-
“Xover”: Mrs. Hash, our landlady,
was complaining of the price to the
rabbit-oh. “Yairs, missus, they are
dear,” was the reply, “but the railways
won’t carry ’em now —it’s the close
season.” Judging by his self-possession
and the malevolent look he flung at me
when I guffawed, it was a tale oft-told
and successful.
* * *
“Swansea”; Bees’ nests in hollow logs
are not unusual. Bees will build in
almost any cavity where there is no
draught. In the Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.)
district I’ve taken bees from a white-
ants’ nest that had in turn been used by
kookaburras. Honey found in these
nests always possessed the greatest degree
of density I’ve known. In western
N.S.W. bees have been known to build
in the dried hide that covered the skele-
ton of a dead beast.
PROOF POSITIVE.
“I see,” said Sawn-off Steve as overboard he
tossed a dead marine,
“Where some o’ these ’ere know-all narks are
writin’ in the Buixateen;
They reckon them beliefs a bushman swears
by gives ’em quite a pain,
Like emus’ kicks can wooden out a horse,
or frogs come down with rain.
“1 daresay some things we believe are pretty
cronk, an’ could be pruned;
That one, for instance, that a spider’s web is
good to dress a wound.
But when they won’t believe that moonlight
poisons fish—why, stone the crows!
They’re just plain goats, because it does ;
an’ I’m just one of ’em that knows.
“Wodonga Bill an’ me ad’ just been shearin’
in a border shed,
An’ when it cut out orf we went, cashed up,
to paint the township red.
That bender lasted seven days. Then, piled
with whisky, gin and beer,
We camped along the Murray—though the way
we got there ain’t too clear.
“We started fishin’ one bright moonlit night,
and, though we’re pretty shot,
We lands a snifter eight-pound cod and,
ravenous, we scoffed the lot.
Crook? Cripes! I nearly died. An’ when a
cow gets up to tell you that
Fish ain’t affected by the moon, I say he’s
talkin’ through his hat!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


HITS
LYS
£
PROOF
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
J&
■US'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTIS LINSEED MEAL.
Marking the Drop.
“Liss”; The lamb should not be
“stung by the pliers” as it is presented to
the marker. Proper procedure?
The earmarkers stand in the middle of
the catching pen facing one another, and
the catchers either step forwards or back-
wards between them, thus presenting the
correct ear to the man with the registered
pliers. They then queue up at the rail.
The marker stands his ground, and the
catchers move along the rail, halting in
front of him until the lamb is marked,
then lift and move along to the tarboy.
It is really a matter of personal prefer-
ence which way they travel. I like them
to come to me from the right and let
go on my left.
Undoubtedly, the correct method is to
mark into the paddock in which the
sheep have been running. Let 20 or 30
ewes go before starting and let the bal-
ance out pen by pen as they come. In
the biggest of paddocks, the mob won’t
go 200 yards. I have marked mobs as
big as 3000 lambs into 10,000-acre pad-
docks thus, and have had no- trouble with
the mothering, which is the all-important
point.
As for its being easy to disinfect yards,
“Rom Ney” (B. 15/7/’36) is spouting
through his cabbage-tree. It is easy to
throw some disinfectant about, but it is
easier to chuck it away and just as effec-
tive. Many people would be glad to
hear of an easy and effective method of
ridding old yards and sheds of tetanus.
Since Nature provides the ewe with a
tail to protect her susceptible parts why
not be logical, and leave it all on, thus
saving the trouble and expense of re-
moving it and gaining more wool at the
same time?
Oats as Green Feed.
“Lion”: It is surprising that more use
isn’t made of oats as a green feed. They
come in at a time when milk-producing
foods are often at a premium, and, if
properly sown, provide a luxuriant
amount of foliage. They have proved
invaluable to us this year.
They were sown on fallowed country
in mid-March, and since then we have
had three feedings for a 10-sheep-to-the-
acre mob on each paddock.
They are ready to eat off again, and
there will still be plenty of time for what
promises to be a bountiful grain crop.
Already our oats have returned several
times over the cost of sowing, seed,
ground preparation and 1501 b. super, per
acre. Without them many of our fat
lambs would have gone “poddy,” with
the usual wormy results.
In these.parts (Riverina) one can eat-
off oats, especially Fulgrum, until the first
week in August, and still get normal
grain. Suitable types stand heavy feed-
ing, and have been proved very satisfac-
tory by the Temora Experiment Farm,
where we bought our seed.
Oats would enable many more fat
lambs to be produced with little extra
expense. Some graziers would get off
as suckers those which otherwise they
would sell as stores off natural pastures.
Again, oaten stubble is invaluable, and
will fatten anything, from a pig to a
bullock. On no account burn it off.
After the first summer rain there will
be another crop of green feed.
All the plant needed is a second-hand
plough, which can be bought for £lO
or under, a set of harrows, also second-
hand, for £5 or under, and a drill, which
may cost anything up to £2O s.-h. If
your oats area is large, a stripper is
worth while. I have obtained enough
plant for under £5O.
The secrets of success with oats for
green feed and grain are fallow country,
if possible, early sowing, good seed and
plenty of manure.
Bale Stencil Hints.
“Lainier”: Don’t wait till the shearers
are on the board to discover that wool-
bale stencils are missing or broken. Go
through them in plenty of time before
shearing starts and have the shortages re-
placed. When repairs are possible, get
the soldering iron on the job right away.
The home-made stencil cut out of a
kerosene-tin is only a makeshift. It is
The New Hand Works His Head.
bab i e to smudge, and unless well cut
spods tbe appearance of even a well-
preSsed bale. The extra cost of having
stencils cut from a heavier than average
metal—say a No. 12 zinc—will result in a
job that will be standing up to rough
usage.for years after the flimsy article
has buckled or lost its works,
Don’t leave it to the storekeeper or
i oca i handy-man to work according to his
ideas. A machine-cut stencil is the best
and often the cheapest,
Use bold, block letters with plenty of
support for the floating centres of letters
to g i ve them a chance to stand up to the
hard knocks they are sure to get. Copper
or mU ntz metal brands are more flexible,
and ma y be more enduring, but they cost
twice as much as zinc, and it is doubt-
ful whether they are worth the difference
in price, provided a good gauge of zinc
is used.
The head brand—name or initials of
owner, brand or name of property, etc.—
should be bold and distinctive. It should
be of 4in. letters, unless there are nine or
more letters in a straight line, when 3in.
letters are advisable so as not to weaken
the plate ; but nothing smaller than 3in.
should be used.
There have been many complaints
from brokers and buyers about the length
and unwieldiness of bale brands.
The grazier who, writes his own way-
bills and consignment notes will realise
the advantage of a brand like ABC/ISIS
compared with A. AHASUERUS MUL-
LIGAN/Crown and Anchor/MOUNT
ISLINGTON/NEW ENGLAND.
When it is considered that the brand of
every bale has to be copied in full by a
score of clerks for every handling by
brokers, cataloguers, repackers, buyers,
shippers and again abroad, it will be
realised how much time and labor and
expense could be avoided. Brands in par-
ticular containing spurs, rams’ heads,
letters inverted or on their sides are not
popular.
The AAA stencil should be of 4in.
letters, and it is best from point of speed
in branding and wearing properties to
have the three letters cut on the one plate
instead of using a single letter. It is a
matter of personal choice whether the
remaining brands are Sin. or 4in., but
they should not be smaller than Sin. Use
bold block letters and numbers in prefer-
ence to script or fancy rounded types.
Abbreviations are economical and handy,
but they must be distinctive. Such brands
as LKS, LBS, LMS and RMS are too
confusing, and a damaged letter or
smudged brand will cause a ton of
trouble. Use LAMBS and LOCKS or
LOX and RAMS. BLS, BKN, COM
and PCS are permissible, but FLEECE is
preferable to FLC. Sex brands (E, W, H)
will last longer if cut as individual sten-
cils rather than the three on one plate.
Use “Ist” as a qualifying brand, but
never “2nd.” Buyers have asked .that.
If you have two lines of pieces brand
the best “Ist PCS” and the other simply
“PCS.”
And remember that bad numerals are
the cause of more worry and correspon-
dence than anything else.
The Growth of Footrot.
“Agamemnon”: Footrot in cattle,
although not as common as in sheep, is
now a serious problem to the dairyman.
It usually attacks fairly old milking cows.
It is most common in heavy-rainfall
coastal districts.
Although caused by a microbe, special
conditions are always present when it
appears. Moisture is essential, and such
objects as stones and pieces of wood
readily help to set up the inflammation
in the softened hoof.
The first noticeable symptom is lame-
ness, the severity of which depends upon
the site and extent of the infection. Fever
may or may not be present. Affected
cows go off their food and milk produc-
tion falls. A hot, painful swelling arises
about' the foot. Pus collects and finally
is discharged. Sufferers go through severe
pain. They may become vicious and
dangerous.
Affected cows should be isolated, since
the discharge spreads the disease. The
foot should be washed thoroughly with
5 p.c. lysol and all dead pieces of hoof
and dirt or foreign material between the
claws carefully removed.
A good liniment or mild blister will do
much to allay pain, while kerosene and
Venice turpentine are useful. Bluestone
solution (ilb.-4gal. water) should be
applied when the abscess bursts.
If not treated, footrot will cause
chronic lameness.
Baling Hay.
“Winfield”: Those who have not suffi-
cient hay to justify the buying of a baling
plant should try a wool press.
Put a false bottom in the press from
sin. to lOin. (according to the size of
bale desired; ours is 7in.) above the
original bottom.
Put a loop in the end of each binding
wire, and, holding the looped ends at the
top, pass the wires down one side of the
empty press, across the bottom and up
the other side. This half of the press is
then filled. There now is wire on both
sides and the bottom of the loose hay.
Next, fill the other half of the press,
tramping the hay well into the box, and
press the lot just as if it were wool.
To complete, pass the wire across the
top of the pressed
hay and tie it to
the looped ends.
Nail two
grooved boards
under the press
lid.
The wire passes
through these
grooves (over the
hay, but under
the lid) and is
tied into the
loops.
Protein and
Bloat.
“Silky Bag”:
“Lion” (B.
8/7/’36) hits
the nail on the head about bloat. So long
as we use pastures overrich in protein,
the trouble will be there.
Summer and autumn crops—such as
lucerne and red and white clovers —leave
far too much protein, especially when
young. Often the protein ratio to carbo-
hydrates is as great as 1 to 2, which
leaves a big protein surplus for break-
down and gas formation. The standard
ratio for ruminants is 1 to 5-8, though
they can thrive on a l-to-4 ration, because
part of the protein is taken up by the
body for use as fuel, which is a special
carbohydrate job.
It is not easy to balance pasture rations
to build a perfect diet for cattle or sheep.
But a lot can be done with permanent
mixed pastures by encouraging grasses
to keep clovers down to 40 per cent, of
the composition. This means that the
former must not be grazed short. Drastic
harrows must never be used. Sometimes
super, dressings should be cut down.
The lucerne plots “Lion” refers to
usually grow a good crop of fibrous hay
in the early spring, and this can be
stacked in three- to five-ton lots about
the paddock. If the stacks are as narrow
as three yards and long, so much the
better, as the sheep will feed right into
them. They need not be high, because
weathering has not to be contended with.
The stacks are merely designed to last
{Continued on page 24.)


M A N -v- MACHINE
immm
HH
mm
am
Wm
<s
mm
H ■ R
'
t
■
mimsmmxl
''Jm
m
I
I
m
■
H i
jr
i
m
i
* : di
; ....
viriiWft . >
H
■Hi
■
r
h
B
11
■
■
■BUB
hi
H
■
a
■Mp
irtHW
«
£
«fc
&
***
The human machine needs power to
keep pace with those driving wheels
of modern times. Oatmeal Stout
provides vital sustenance and vigor.
“ Here’s To’ee.”
-T 0 0 H E Y S-
OfITITIEfIL STOUT
TOOHEYS LTD.,
Standard Brewery, Sydney.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


d
SMART
DRESS
SHOES
PRICE - - - 257-
better QUALITY,
45/-
P\ ON’T take chances when dressing for formal
evenings. Neat-looking Dress Shoes add to
your appearance on occasions when only the best
is good enough.
Featured above is the light welt which is now correct
for Dress wear. Stocked in full and half sizes.
Meltonian Cream is the correct Dressing for Patent
Shoes. Only 1/- per Bottle.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY. W.A. 40.
THEV ALL WANT IT.
BECAUae THEY NEED IT.
"4LEMITE”
never just grease
these parts
A
LEMITE
~tuot (jtedA-ej
6
ax>
©Marks the important
lubrication centres of
modern motor vehicles.
Alemite high pressure lubrica-
tion and lubricants developed
for individual requirements
give assurance of protection
and efficiency impossible by
haphazard " greasing’’ methods
Ijfziversai^oints
Some types of this essen-
tial duty unit need a fluid,
others a fibrous lubricant.
Alemite Service provides the one best suited to increase resist-
ance to wear and thus prolongs useful life of universal Joints.
Alemite Corporation.
CHIC AGO,"ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Ciible Address: ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars from ME. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd;, 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust —5-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
over the summer and act as self-feeders
to balance the diet.
A good plan with a \’ell-built stack
in a pasture or lucerne plot is to double-
fence it with nine-wire shallow pig-netting,
leaving about 12 inches between the
two sets of wire. This cheaply-made
feeder can be filled with hay every
few days so that the sheep can clean up
its contents at their leisure. Oaten
stubble, cut with the binder or mower,
is much underrated for this work. Sheep
and even milking cows grazing on rich
half-growth lucerne will rush anything in
the way of fibre—even wheat straw
sometimes.
I have noted often that dry ewes put
on lucerne stalks to clean up after the
lambs or stores have eaten the leaf off
are more contented, healthier and
remain fat, compared with more
pampered stock. This is apparently
owing to their diet being better balanced,
especially in fibre.
Curing Soil Drift.
“J. Want”: The C.S.I.R. some time ago
sent F. N. Ratcliffe to a typical erosion
area, and his report is illuminating but
depressing. He finds that it is over the
great areas which once were covered with
dwarf shrubs, such as salt- and blue-bush,
that there has been most trouble. And,
though drought is contributory and the
rabbit will have a secondary effect likely
to be disastrous,
there can be no gainsaying the fact that
the greater part of the deterioration and
drift apparent to-day in the arid pastoral
regions of S. Australia — i.e.. over the main
source of moving sand—is due to over-
stocking... .though deliberate flogging of
the country is quite the exception.
The past 12 seasons have been un-
usually dry in the erosion areas, and lack
of moisture has upset the calculations of
graziers. Ratcliffe finds that the main
penalty of eating out country lies in per-
manent changes in vegetation and the
nature of the soil surface which cannot
be rectified by “mere spelling dr return
to favorable conditions.” Only large and
well-financed properties can stand a light-
stocking policy with rotational resting of
paddocks, but where it is practised the
result has been a success.
Cases must be uncommon. Country of
the type which goes to sand must have a
value rarely more than a couple of shil-
lings unimproved, and even when there is
a rainfall it is so small and seasonal
that even a long succession of what
northern S.A. looks on as bounteous
seasons would not result in full recovery.
Although the rabbit does not do the
damage—in dry districts the salty nature
of the low bush puts bunny off using it
extensively as a diet—the pest is sealing
the fate of the mulga. Even 12 years ago
I saw mulga ringbarked by rabbits in
Centralia. Bunny had penetrated the
desert till hundreds of him had become
so weak and desperate that any aider-
man could run them down. Mr. Rat-
cliffe now says that, thanks to rabbits,
“natural regeneration by seed of the
mulga has practically ceased” :
The present generation of trees is visibly
dying (probably as a result of old age
and drought), and no seedlings are rising
to take its place. Short of rabbit extermi-
nation, which cannot be hoped for, the
only thing which will prevent the great
areas of sandy mulga scrub country from
reverting ultimately to a drifting desert
would be the establishment of a substitute
vegetation to take the place of the scrub.
As apparently the substitute, too, must
be impervious to rabbit and drought, it
does not seem a very satisfactory expedi-
ent for curing the ills of the country in
which drift originates. But much might
be done by barrage planting of timber in
the Queensland and western N. S. Wales
pastoral areas on which the moving sand
is encroaching.
Grassland Treatment.
“Steve”: On many farms it is doubt-
ful if “Stump Jump’s” hints on winter
grassland (B. 15/7/’36) could be utilised
economically. To harrow a pasture once
a month is an ideal which is not prac-
ticable on large farms.
Generally speaking, the paddocks
where cattle camp could be given a
monthly harrowing and the others treated
once every three months. Further, to
allow rye-grass and phalaris to attain a
height of 6in. to Sin. in winter presup-
poses some other source of protein-rich
foodstuff at this difficult period.
These grasses would not attain that
length until the warmer spring, when
there is plenty of green outside winter-
growing grasses.
Admittedly, the average dairyman car-
ries far too little winter reserve, but
neither grass, hay nor ensilage can pro-
vide that protein balance so vital to milk-
production and the development of grow-
ing lambs and cattle.
Says “Stump Jump”:
Rye and phalaris must never be cropped
closer than 6in. or Sin. if they are expected
to hold their 60 p.c. dominance over clover.
Not 5 p.c. of the rye-grass pastures
which I have seen have attained any-
thing near that length during the three
winter months. Phalaris is not grown
extensively enough yet in my district for
me to generalise about it. The appli-
cation of half super, in winter is good
practice provided the other half is
applied before the first rains in autumn.
It is during the autumn growth that the
phosphate gets in its good work.
Hints for the Farm.
“5.8.”: A good bloat preventive for
milking cows is one cup of paraffin with
some chaff to each animal.
“Lam”: To make soft putty, thor-
oughly knead a mixture of 201 b. whiting,
1 gill salad oil, 2lb. white lead and i-gill
raw linseed oil. Add raw linseed oil till
it is workable. Keep covered with water.
“Silky Bag”: A cheap, hygienic way of
feeding numbers of calves is to use one-
gallon enamel basins (plum-pudding
type). Being seamless, they are easily
cleaned and last longer than metal,
especially when fitted into round holes
on a long bench at the head of the bails.
“Bluetongue”: Handy drawers can
easily be made for the shed or workshop
from old kerosene or petrol cases and
tins. Stack the cases against the wall,
facing out, cut the side out of each tin,
then fit them, two into each case. The
small wire handles are usually enough.
“X.T.”: Don’t risk early-shorn sheep
in cold, open paddocks on the first night
after shearing. If possible, they should be
shelter-shed housed the first night out. It
is cheaper to have shelter than to lose
hundreds by driving them overcoatless
into a chilly late-afternoon rain or sleet.
Mostly sheep lost after winter shearing
perish through being driven distances. If
you don’t believe it, take off all your
clothes on a cold-snap afternoon, walk
briskly far enough to get thoroughly
warm and then sit down on the open
grass all night.
“Murrinji”: Try this on the local
lamb-stealing eagle: Spread out an old
blanket with a skinned lamb or rabbit
or a sheep interior on it. Six times out
of ten Aquila will get his claws caught in
the fabric and presently roll himself up.
“Zamia”; Every station should have
its beef-extract supply; Try lib. fatless
beef, 1 teaspoon salt, \ teaspoon grated
nutmeg, ditto ground mace, 1 des-
sertspoon butter, \\ teaspoon anchovy
essence. Boil meat, salt, pepper and
butter in a sealed jar placed in
water for three hours. Mince cooked
meat, beat in flavorings thoroughly. Pack
away in well-sealed jars in a cool, dark
spot.
“Valerin”: Joining good rams with
unclassed ewes is a laborious method of
improving the quantity and quality of
wool. No matter how small the flock of
breeding ewes it should be classed to a
standard. If a man has not expert know-
ledge it will pay him to get a reputable
sheep-classer. Wether flocks of over
1000 should be carefully gone over, and
small, badly-shaped and rough-woolled
animals culled out and sold.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is there a limit to the height at which a
siphon will operate ? (2) Would it be possible
to siphon water over a hill 50 ft. high to a
reservoir 1500 ft. below the original water level ?
(3) If so, best size for the pipe ? (4) Has the
ratio of the short arm to that of the long arm
any bearing on the rate of discharge ? (5) Can
water be pumped higher than about 22ft. with
an ordinary pump ? —-2250.
(1) Yes, about 32ft. vertical height. (2) and
(3) No; the atmospheric pressure would not be
great enough to force the water up to such a
height. (4) Yes; the greater the vertical height
of the long arm as compared with that of the
short arm, assuming the latter does not exceed
32ft., the greater the rate of flow. (5) A suc-
tion pump will not draw water from a depth
of more than 32ft. below the movable valve,
and in practice this height does not exceed
25ft. On the other hand, the height to which
water can be raised by a lift pump depends
upon the strength of the different parts.
* * * *
(1) Where can I obtain a water-wheel de-
veloping \-h.p. ? (2) Cost ? (3), Minimum fall
of water necessary ? (4) Quantity of water re-
quired per minute ? —2212.
(1) W. G. Watson and Co., 279 Clarence-
street, Sydney, is agent for the Pelton wheel,
which is suitable for small powers. (2) De-
pends upon the size; in any case it will have
to be imported from England. (3) and (4)
It varies with the rate of flow as under: No.
6 wheel, 4.25 cub. ft. per min., fall 80ft., h.p.
0.47; No. 9 wheel, 6.98 cub. ft. per min., fall
50ft., h.p. 0.5; No. 12 wheel, 12.1 cub. ft. per
min., fall 40ft., h.p. 0.724.


SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘There’s too much talk at Geneva,’ says a
politician.”
Conferences of the pow-wow-ers.
•b *b *b *b
“ ‘lndigestion is a souvenir of overeating,’
says a doctor.”
A keeps-ache.
•b *b *b *b
“ ‘lf you came home to an empty house and
found your husband had gone, leaving only £i
note, what would you do?’ asks an authoress.”
Spend it before he got back.
b b *b -b
“ ‘My husband was all right until he took
to playing cards for money,’ says wife in a
Brisbane divorce case.”
Then he went to the pack.
•b v v - b
“Goats In Harness.” — “D.T.”
That about describes us.
*b 4* 4* *b
When a woman promises to be punc-
tual, it carries a lot of wait.
•b 4* *b *b
“ ‘Whether mep approve of it or not,
women’s dresses this year will be made almost
exclusively of spotted materials,’ says a fashion
expert.”
But surely men are not averse to spots!
“ Erbert, I p os'tively can't remember which bin I
chucked that fiver inter."
“ ‘You’ve got to admire the American hold-
up man, tor he is utterly reckless and nine
times out of ten secures the booty he’s after,’
says a returned traveller.”
Sure, you’ve got to hand it to him.
v
omen ’ s v j rt f ues are so self-evident that
I ketire"” need for me pra,se thcm ’ sa,s
They speak for themselves.
,
.** * *
mnrl p a msters ar , e usuall y, much calmer than
marred women,’ says a lecturer.”
Well, they’re certainly self-possessed.
* * * *
“Two dwarfs from Russia who claimed to
AnS ” El,r ° Pe f ‘° m
y . 1 eie s ,a pn.
Small prophets and quick returns.
“Year after year she gave him the same
breakfast food.” — “Telegraph.”
A cereal?
•b *b *b 4*
“ ‘A wife is nearly always responsible for her
husband’s success,’ says a writer."
This is because he has to earn more
and more to meet her increasing expen-
diture!
Do You Know?
That if all the snow at Kosciusko were
collected and distributed in equal pro-
portions among the cities of Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth
it would melt in no time?
That those skates you paid three
guineas for could be bought at any
Sydney pawnshop for 10s. 6d.?
That no Australian over the age of
87 has ever broken his neck ski-ing?
That the girl you met at Buffalo last
August will be there again this season?
“No gas, and miles from anywhere'! You rascal, I guessed you Were
plotting some mischief."
That the hire of a “bob’’-sleigh is 2s.
6d. an hour?
That the six o’clock bell at the Chalet
is rung to rouse those who wish to catch
the early morning train.
That a Kelvinator salesman was stoned
to death at Kosciusko last year?
Anything?
Rip Lee.
•|«
Theory.
The lecturess was appealing to the class
of cookery students.
“Before many years have passed,” she
said, “most of you girls will probably be
mar ried, and the health of your husbands
and families will largely depend on your
culinary efficiency. So you must appre-
ciate the great importance of this study,
“You must bear in mind that the value
of home-cooking cannot be over-empha-
sised. Many young women of to-day
think it is good enough to provide tinned
foods for the meals, but I hope that you
will know better.
“You must realise your responsibili-
ties. Every person for whom you
cook will require a certain quota of vita-
mins daily ; they will require properly-
cooked meats and fresh, life-giving fruits
and vegetables; a careful study of
dietetics must be made to see that they
get the correct allotment of proteins, car-
bohydrates and”
Here a maid tripped up to the dais.
“Excuse me,” she said, “but your hus-
band is on the ’phone—says it’s im-
portant.”
With an impatient “Tch! ” the lecturess
left the classroom.
When she picked up the receiver, a
peevish, complaining voice came from
the other end:
“That you, Sophia? I’m just home
from work'and I’m famished. Where
have you put the tin-opener?”
T. W. N.
-I- *b 4* >2* •
A Gift for Incongruity.
He was a draughtsman in a big city
engineering firm, efficient, but with an
unappreciated sense of humor. Deputed
to design a bridge for which the firm
held the contract, he submitted the com-
pleted work to the heads for approval.
It was returned with caustic instructions
to remove the two fishermen he had
sketched on the bridge.
When the design came up for inspec-
tion again the heads were more annoyed
than ever. The two anglers had been
removed from the bridge, but were still
to be seen, a little way below it, fishing
off the river bank.
The draughtsman was ordered to do
away with them altogether. When the
design came before them for the third
time the wrath of the heads reached boil-
ing point. Where the men fishing off the
bank had been were now two tomb-
stones.
The draughtsman was suspended in-
definitely.
L. R.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XXV. — And so to Sydney.
Sydney can be entered by land, sea
or air; but there is the compensatory
advantage that it can be left just as easily.
It has a harbor (or, more correctly, a
Harbor) which was provided by Nature,
and a bridge (or Bridge) which wasn’t.
Sydney is equally proud of both, though
it did nothing towards establishing the
former and hasn’t paid for the latter.
Melbourne grudgingly admits that the
Harbor “isn’t bad,” but considers Nature
put it in the wrong place—somewhere in
the vicinity of Hobson’s Bay would have
been much more suitable.
Sydney claims the noisiest trams, the
quietest night clubs, the dingiest Parlia-
ment House and the smallest Public
Library in the world, and no fewer than
17 of its beaches are the “finest in the
world,” while those that aren’t think they
are. .
Sydney has more people, motor acci-
dents, picture-shows, hotels, milk-bars,
flats, Asiatics, tin-hares, wowsers, chain-
stores, golf widows, insurance sales-
men, blonde Venuses and traffic by-laws
than any other city in Australia. Some
of these things it claims and some it
denies.
Mrs. Loofah was tickled pink at the
galaxy of milk-bars, and insisted on the
party going into one. Claude Counter-
pane tried to escape, but Mrs. Loofah
detected him in time. He scanned the
list of drinks, and his eyes lit up as he
sighted “Bootlegger Punch.” His dis-
appointment and horror on finding it was
mostly milk I shall never forget. He was
off-color for the rest of the day.
No visitor to Sydney should miss the
Zoo, and it isn’t likely that he’ll be
allowed to. Other things that no one
should miss are the last ferry to Manly ;
Mr. Archdale Parkhill arriving in state
at his office, complete with military
chauffeur; Mr. Lang walking past
U.A.P. headquarters in Bligh-street with
his hat on ; the monthly civic welcome
to American film stars ; the museum of
clues to unsolved murders at police head-
quarters.
Sydney is a very cultured city, and has
a theatre which is open for most of the
year. There hasn’t been a centenary in
Sydney for nearly 50 years, and there
won’t be one for over 50 years; but
Sydney has a quaint way of getting
around little difficulties like that. As
all the other cities have had more or
less recent celebrations, Sydney has de-
cided not to be left out of it, and has
invented a thing called a Sesquicentenary.
“Sesqui” is an Esperanto word mean-
ing “Trump that! ” and you can hold
one whenever you like instead of having
to wait a hundred years like the other-
cities.
That’s the way they do things in
Sydney.
Jasby.
-b *l* *b
“Victorian Agent-General was welcomed
home by bagpipes.”
Politicians go abroad to a lament from
the taxpayers.
•b *b *b *b
“A scooter Derby will be run on the new
Melbourne scooter track.”
For kids" stakes?
Sauce for the Gander.
You stood upon your balcony,
A dream of girlish loveliness,
And swift the thought occurred to me
To win one more farewell caress
By climbing up the creepered wall.
But prudence kept this whim in check ;
I didn’t wish to risk a fall
And thereby jeopardise my neck.
You touched my fancy, standing there.
Your classic head moon-haloed, pet,
A nd I was prompted to declare :
“Ah, darling, you’re like Juliet.”
I felt exalted, deified,
But you dealt Love a fatal blow
When pertly, glibly, you replied:
“You’re telling ME, Sir Romeo.”
P.O.M.C.
Getting the Wind Up.
“At Stoneyford (Vic.) a heavy wind c<?m-
pletely stopped a goods train. The driver
had to take it to its destination in two sec-
tions.” — “Age.”
That was only a gentle zephyr com-
pared with the wind I struck once.
It was on a November 8--I recall the
date well, because my aunt’s birthday is
on June 25, and the peculiar coincidence
impressed me at the time—that 1 pulled
out with No. 72, a mixed train, bound
for Beesknees Gully, one of the highest
points on the N.S.W. mountains. Our
freight was blood and bone in both
animate and inanimate form —fertiliser
in wagons, humans in carriages.
I noticed after we’d begun to climb
the mountains that the wind was getting
stronger. Suddenly it hit us from the
rear. I jambed on the brakes as we shot
forward, but with all the wheels locked
we sailed up that one-in-three grade at
80 m.p.h.
The tornado got stronger. As we ap-
proached a bend I did the only possible
thing—put her in reverse. Still we kept
on at a dizzy speed.
Suddenly I saw what appeared to be
a dark cloud shooting past us overhead.
Afterwards I noticed that the pastures
through which we passed were beauti-
fully green and healthy, whereas previ-
ously they had been poor and hungry-
looking. Then the explanation dawned
on me —the roofs had come off the
trucks, and what I had taken to be the
cloud had been the fertiliser being
whisked miles ahead. By the time we
caught up to it, of course, it had had
its beneficial effect.
It was only by good chance that the
last stage of our run was a somewhat
stiff grade of one in one and a half which
saved us from going over the dead-end
at our destination. As it was, I had to
take it at 40 m.p.h., but beyond a few
jolts that was nothing.
We got our real thrill, though, on the
return journey. 1
was anxious to get
back that night, as
I knew that for my
tea there would be
filleted sardines, a
dish of which I
am inordinately
fond. Hurriedly I
had the engine
supercharged, and,
the better to hurl
the train into the
teeth of that ter-
rible wind, I took
on as ballast a
heavy load of in-
flated pigs’ bladders
and cork.
Awaiting a tem-
porary lull, I made
a dash for it.
Down that almost
sheer gradient we
flew, with the
speedo. showing 75
m.p.h. That was
no guide, though,
for that was as
high as the instru-
ment went.
We could feel
the wind again be-
coming stronger. 1
calculated we must
be down some-
where near the
plains again, but I began to feel uneasy,
as we kept passing red lights. Once I got
too close to the speedo., which was white-
hot, and scorched some part of myself.
I was still dubious about the danger sig-
nals, but it was Sydney or the bush, so
I kept it flat out. Suddenly there was a
tremendous crash. When I picked my-
self up from the permanent-way I was
amazed to find that we were back at
Beesknees Gully—that wind had blown
us backwards clean up to the top of the
mountain again!
Sadly thinking of the filleted sardines
and my waiting spouse, I put in the rest
of that awful night sandpapering what
remained of the engine’s brakes off with
a railway sandwich.
S.W.K.
As I Find Her.
Those folk who try deserve the most,
They say. On this relying,
/ say my wife deserves a host
Of things — she’s always trying.
H.M.


STATION ABO. SKETCHES.
CHUNUMA
BY MARY & ELIZABETH DURACK
111.
Corroboree.
FOR days there had been a storm brewing in the
walk-about camp. In the walk-about camp there
usually was, for when the lubras had nothing
more important to do than to sit about looking at
the boys, and the boys nothing more absorbing than
making one another jealous, there were bound to be
disturbances. Everyone enjoyed them —looked upon
them, indeed, as an inseparable part of their holiday
time.
The dogs knew all about them, too. They would
lie for hours regarding one another balefully, doing
nothing more decisive than to bark and bare their
teeth until their masters and mistresses gave vent to
their feelings in a more active manner; then they
were all into it together—tooth and claw in the
general bedlam.
When it all subsided and became quiet again
there was seldom anyone much the worse. A cut
finger, a moderately-split head and a temporarily
lame leg was as serious a list of casualties as usually
eventuated.
Only very occasionally was the fight of a more
serious nature when some warrior, not content with
a mere flirtation with another man’s lubra, was deter-
mined to carry her off. Then there was a brooding
darkness in faces that had become suddenly the faces
of wild men who held human life in small account.
And such a storm it was that was threatening
now.
The three youngest members of the camp, as
fully aware of all the circumstances as were their
elders, hung about, lest on one of their hunting or
berry - picking expedi-
tions they might miss
any stages in the de-
velopment of so inter-
esting an event.
Dingyerri, alone of
the trio, was somewhat
upset. It had been just
like That before her
mother and father had
run away from their
tribal camp and
been tracked down
and speared. There
had been the same
silent, brooding air;
the same half-fearful,
sidelong glances of the
lubras as they bent,
apparently absorbed,
h umm i n g occasional
snatches of corroboree,
over their dillybags ; the
same waiting, watchful
crouching of the dogs.
Gwennie, being im-
mediately concerned in
this disturbance, as,
indeed, if she had not been, she would have promptly
made herself, was particularly interested.
Her arrival in the camp had been closely fol-
lowed by that of a young lubra with a small boy of
two or three. The lubra, known to All-about as
“Joondree,” was a comfortably proportioned, pleasant-
faced person with a ready, engaging smile and short
hair which she brushed straight up from the back in
an original coiffure of which she was justly proud.
She carried herself with the air of a person of some
importance, as she undoubtedly was, being famous
among blacks and whites as the swiftest runner in
the district.
Such was the mother over whose memory
Gwennie had wept large tears on the homestead
verandah, in the hope of enlisting the elusive sym-
pathies of the whites. Whites were amazingly stupid
sometimes, and at others surprisingly astute. On such
rare occasions as they proved themselves to be of
the latter category, they earned the immediate appro-
val and admiration of the black fellows whose par-
ticular little ruse they had perceived.
Gwennie’s father, Alec, was not long in follow-
ing her mother. He strode into the camp in a sulky,
overbearing manner, a muscular warrior much scarred
about the back and chest, with a wild mop of hair
standing up stiff and straight above the colored wool
band that adorned his forehead. His eyes, under
beetling brows, had an intent, staring expression,
explained by his own somewhat proud statement that
he went mad occasionally “longa full-moon time.”
At the time of his arrival in the camp
the moon was, as it happened, only two days off that
most exciting of its phases.
For two days, therefore, the storm brewed.
Alec sat apart from the others, seemingly taking
no notice of anybody, but being, in reality, fully
aware of every covert glance that passed between his
lubra and young Peter, whom she had met last walk-
about time, and who had evidently had a good deal to
do with her arrival in the camp at this time of year.
Peter had not, perhaps, as many scars as Alec,
but he was very strong and straight, and had good
clear eyes that could measure the distance between
himself and a leaping wallaby with the utmost accu-
racy and convey it precisely to the spear as it left
his hand. Everybody liked young Peter, with his
broad, pleasant smile. He had been born on the
station, and the manager had taught him to ride,
perched up in front of his own saddle, when he went
out mustering. Peter had always • been proud of
having occupied this place of honor, and laughed
delightedly when his boss reminded him of how he
had loved to attach a long piece of brittle speargrass
under each foot to act as a spur.
When Joondree came into the camp everyone
knew that she had awakened an interest in young
Peter, such as none of them had ever succeeded in
arousing.
On the night of the full moon there was to be
a big corroboree. All the walk-about blacks for miles
around were gathered on the river. Among them
were good, solid stockboys and their lubras from
other stations, and a goodly number of bush blacks
from the sandstone ranges out east who had never
worked for the white man, because in the lonely wild
places where they lived they could , spear as many
cattle as they wished without much danger of the
police molesting them. There were blacks, too, who
had worked on stations once, but who had been out-
lawed for some deed they had committed against the
white man’s law.
Worker and idler and outlaw sprawled about
conversing in a low, desultory manner under the
pandanus and the wild figs and the deep-foliaged
Leichhardt pines.
AS afternoon drew on, preparations for the corro-
boree commenced. The lubras pulled the feathers
out of a dead cockatoo and
gave them to the performers,
who then retired behind a
bough screen to adorn one an-
other with weird and wonderful
designs in red and white ochre
and symmetrical islands of
feathers stuck on with an ad-
hesive concoction of cabbage
gum and spinifex wax and
blood. The tall headpieces of
woven paper-bark were similarly
ornate. Rustling green branches
were bound to wrists and ankles,
and the disguises were com-
plete.
Excitement ran high. The
lubras collected their tapping
sticks, and old Bungyee greased
his bamboo trumpet and the
dogs made tireless pilgrimages
from the scene of the lubras’
activities to the secret dressing-
room “off stage.”
When the moon rose Bung-
yee, impressive in his war-
paint and high cap of paper-bark and feathers,
seated himself among the old men on the edge ot
the smooth corroboree ground. He took up his
bamboo trumpet and blew till it gave forth its low,
throbbing note. It was like the first distant pulsations
of thunder before the storm clouds break.
To - night nobody
laughed very much.
Only Chunuma and
Gwennie, chasing one
another in and out the
paper-barks, failed to
treat the occasion with
due solemnity. The
lubras sat together at a
little distance from the
old men. They were
always inclined to get
rather unnecessarily
close on such occasions,
but to-night there was
a certain lack of ease in
the way they were
huddled one against the
other.
Joondree held her
baby very closely and
endeavored, with little
nervous whisperings, to
hush him to sleep.
There was no fire
lit to reveal the dancers,
the moon’s being considered sufficient light, but a heap
of coals, upon which roasted the day’s catch of goanna
and kangaroo, glowed brightly near by.
There was a long, low sound of admiration as
the dancers leapt, one after another, into the for-
mation of the corroboree. The lubras’ voices rose
and fell, hands beating naked thighs to the time of
Bungyee’s trumpet and the rhythm of the stamping
feet. There was no melody —only such wild music
as exists in elemental things, the shrill, plaintive whin-
ing of the wind in the gullies, the rushing of the river
falls and the hushing of the rain, and the high, clear
call of the mating
brolgas, and, under
all, the deep, mono-
tonous intoning of the
frogs.
All went quietly
enough for the first
two hours of the
dance. Chunuma up-
set the dignity of the
performance slightly
by bounding into the
foreground holding a
pair of bullock’s
horns to his head and
keeping the time of
the corroboree, charg-
ing the dancers with
wild bellowings.
The lubras tit-
tered. Daisy made a
few ineffectual little
sounds of protest:
“Rainyerri! Come
’ere, Rainyerri!
Naughty boy!”
Gwen n i e shrieked
with delight and Ding-
yerri gazed with timid
admiration upon her
hero. The boys them-
selves took no more
notice of him than if
he had been an im-
pudent mosquito.
When the dancers retired for a spell and Chun-
uma had fallen asleep with exhaustion, the lubras rose,
with their strands of colored wool stretched from
thumb to thumb, and danced with the slow, sinuous
movements of arm and body considered proper of
womankind.
The older lubras sang and some of the men joined
in the chanting.
Joondree swayed her rounded young figure with
lashes cast demurely over her eyes. Gwennie, well
in the forefront of the dancers, moved as lithely as
a little brown snake, her thin arms rippling like grass
in the wind as she turned and twisted them in and
about her strand of wool. She kept her eyes cast
down, too, like the older women, but she saw all
that was going on and a good
deal more from under her
long, straight lashes.
When the lubras had
seated themselves again and
the men had risen to take
their place,
Gwennie made
her way with
seeming aim-
lessness to
w h ere Alec
stood, waiting
to commence. She bent down at his feet to pick up
a tapping-stick that was lying there.
“Peter all-a-time look longa Joondree,” she said
softly. “Me bin hear’m talk two pfeller run away,” with
which remark she carelessly extricated a thorn from
her foot and sauntered off. Passing the tall form


which, even under the heavy disguise of mundic and
feathers, was not difficult to recognise as that of
Bungledoon, she paused to remove yet another imagi-
nary thorn from her foot. She sighed and cast a
significant glance in the direction of his wife and
a muscular bush blackfellow who stood, probably in
all innocence, at no very great distance from her side.
“Nida’s boy wanna look out,” she murmured as
though in soliloquy.
Passing the lovesick Jackson, she remarked con-
versationally that
Dardo was going
to run away with
Dicky by-and-bye.
Gypsie was sit-
ting with her tap-
ping-sticks crossed
and an abstracted
expression on her
face. Gwen n i e
paused just behind
her, grunted, lifted
her foot, and
closely scrutinised
its little horny
sole.
“Cripes!” she
exclaimed, “I bin
shust watchin’ old Tommy where ’im bin look
longa young Peggy!” The latter part of her
remark was addressed to Daisy, who was seated
in the immediate vicinity of Tommy’s exceed-
ingly jealous spouse. It wouldn’t have been much
fun telling Tommy that another boy was look-
ing at his iubra, because, for one thing, he would
never have believed it, and for another he was far
too placid and easygoing to do anything much about
it. To arouse any excitement in that family it was
necessary to attack the situation from the other angle.
Gypsie was very handy with her nulla-nulla, and had
applied it on more than one occasion to the inoffen-
sive head of her spouse.
Without pausing to watch the effect of her handi-
work, Gwennie moved on. Every now and again
she stopped to examine her foot, until at last she threw
herself down at the end of the group of lubras with
a great sigh and commenced beating
her little thighs to the time of • the
chant which had started up as the
boys leapt into action.
The moon had risen high, but was
overcast now by clouds of varying in-
tensity. Faster and faster stamped the
dancers, wilder and wilder rose the
voices of the women, and more bod-
ing the droning undercurrent of the
hollow bamboo. The wind rose sud-
denly from the north and swept down
to the river, bringing the scent of rain-
wet gum-leaves and spinifex from the
distant ridges. It seemed as though
the elements had entered into the spirit
of the corroboree and were rising with
it to a crescendo of excitement. The
branches of the trees, tossing and
swirling, drowned the rustling of the
branches about the ankles of the men,
but it would have taken more than
the rising storm to drown the shrill
mounting voices and the sound of
excited feet beating the earth in frenzy
till it seemed to shake.
A spear flashed from the hand of
one of the dancers, who, even in that
dim light, might have been known
from the wildness of his hair and
general bearing to be Joondree’s boy.
His weapon passed through and re-
moved the high paper-bark cap that adorned young
Peter’s head.
Immediately the organised movement of the dance
became a chaotic medley of waving arms and bran-
dished weapons, and the rhythmic cadence of the song
a bedlam of cries and screams.
Nobody knew, or cared very much, with whom
he was fighting.
Gypsie, foremost among the lubras, leapt into
the fray, and singling out her portly spouse delivered
him a resounding crack on the head with her nulla-
nulla, her shrill scolding voice rising above the others
in jealous and self-righteous protestation.
Bungledoon, with one well-judged stroke of his
boomerang, had laid low his lubra’s supposed seducer,
and was proceeding to administer fitting punishment
to the more or less innocent Nida.
Alec, Peter and Joondree had become lost from
single combat in the excited crowd. Little Georgie,
temporarily forgotten, screamed his hardest and was
unheard.
Dingyerri had scuttled away into the darkness
of a conkerberry thicket and crouched there shivering
with fright.
Only Chunuma and Gwennie could be said to
have really enjoyed that rumpus. They raced and
danced about on the outskirts of the fray like a couple
of gleeful participants in a Guy Fawkes celebration.
They clasped one another excitedly, and danced about
and screamed and shouted until they were too hoarse
to shout any more.
Suddenly a figure broke from the seething mass
of dark forms, snatched up the still howling Georgie
and ran.
Gwennie was after her in a twinkling.
“Where you goin’?” she asked.
“I dunno!” panted the terrified Joondree without
slackening her pace.
“Well, come on,” said Gwennie. “Me an’ you
an’ little Georgie go longa big ’ouse.”
It had previously occurred to Gwennie that if
the boss discovered she had parents in the camp at
the river and was not a motherless outcast he would
more than likely send her about her business. If,
however, her mother and father could in some way
be installed on the station stall’ all would be well.
She would then be a legitimate dependant and entitled
to all the amenities of life the station had to offer.
Joondree look no further persuasion to seek pro-
tection at the house. She had been brought up with
whites, and it was natural to her to turn to them in
her need. It was her ambition in life to work for
a white woman, and to have a settled home for her-
self and her children and to be done with the wan-
dering, runaway existence to which Alec had for so
long subjected her.
The mile between the river and the house was
negotiated with as much speed as possible.
Georgie’s wails had by this time been bounced
into a frightened whimpering. The wind had dropped
and the rain commenced to fall in a steady downpour.
When they reached the homestead all was in
darkness and there was nobody about. The house
was a square structure, raised above the ground on
two-feet blocks. Wearily Joondree crawled beneath
its shelter with her baby. Gwennie followed a little
reluctantly. It seemed rather an anticlimax to the
dramatic entry she had foreseen, but under the house
were sundry wire-bunks upon which were spread the
wet-weather supplies of onions. Having peeled and
eaten one of these, she stretched out her little weary
limbs and slept.
«DOSS,” said Gwennie dramatically, having secured
an early audience. “I bin think it my mother
dead pfeller, on’y ’im must be jump up agen!”
The manager lowered himself resignedly into his
long canvas chair and prepared himself for the infevit-
able interview.
“W here is
she?” he asked.
“ ’Ere, longa
’o us e c n o w!”
Gwennie replied
with alacrity. “Last
night that no-good
father b’longta me
bin close up kill’m
dead pfeller!”
By this time
Joondree had ap-
peared with her
baby in her arms.
She stood sheep-
ishly at the foot of
the verandah steps and looked timidly up from
under her lashes. She placed the whimpering Georgie
upon the ground and flashed the white man her most
fetching smile.
“You know me, boss,” she said. “You bin
lose’m five quid long time where me bin lick that
Territory boy longa footrace.”
“AU-about reckon ’im smart lubra properly,”
Gwennie interjected. “ ’lm savvy wash’m clothes,
savvy iron’m, all-a-same Chinaman!”
“That’s right,” Joondree agreed modestly, “Me
like’m work, stop longa one place. No good all-a-
time walk-about longa bush.”
“Where’s yer boy?” inquired the manager.
The smile died on Joondree’s face. There was
no mistaking her sentiments towards her spouse.
Somewhat to the surprise of the gathering the
blackfellow in question suddenly made his appearance
from behind a tank. Traces of his warpaint of the
previous night still lingered on his face and chest.
His hair was still unruly, but his eyes and general
bearing were more calm. Evidently his anger
had spent itself in the brawl, which, for all
its ferocity, had left surprisingly little mark upon
its various participants, most of whom were by this
time clustered about the house for fear of missing
anything.
“Well,” said the white man, regarding him sternly,
“What do you want?”
It is doubtful whether until that moment Alec
had the slightest idea what he wanted. Startled now
into some sort of a decision, he said he wanted to
work at the station with his lubra.
“No,” said the boss firmly. “I know all
■about you —you’re one of them useless, runaway
scoundrels.”
“Me wanna work longa one place now,” Alec
protested. “Last night me bin go mad, then someone
bin crack’m me longa head hard pfeller, make’m me
all right.”
The manager had heard that Alec was a good
enough stockboy while he lasted, so, being short-
handed at the time, he clinched the matter in a wordy
harangue, containing all the lurid and bloodcurdling
expletives at his command, and dismissed the com-
pany with a wave of the hand.
And so Gwennie came into her rights.
IV.
Mustering Time.
WALK-ABOUT time was over,
and work had begun again.
The very feeling in the air,
the aspect of the station was different
now. There was the wet-weather
holiday-time and the dry-weather
working-time, and the two seasons
were irreconcilable. All the frivolous,
playtime things seemed gradually to
have disappeared and the matter-of-
fact realities of the world to have
taken their place.
The walk-about camp by the
river was deserted ; in fact, there was
very little evidence of there ever hav-
ing been a holiday camp on the bank
at all. There were certainly numer-
ous bonies—remains of many a feast,
and the grey ash piles of sundry fires
and a few scattered branches and
strips of paper-bark that had gone to
the making of a shelter of sorts.
There may have been, too, had you
sought more closely among the grass,
a few broken spearheads and shat-
tered bamboo shafts, a charred hat
and a battered boot, but there re-
mained nothing to greatly offend the
fastidious eye.
The boys moved at a brisker, more purposeful
pace than their habitual holiday saunter. Their spurs
produced a merry jingling sound, blending with the
jingling of hobble chains and the busy clatter of
canteens.
Their hats, boots, trousers and shirts were all
new, for it was quite unheard of that they should
retain any of their last year’s clothes after their, walk-
about, no matter how good they were before. It
went without saying that during that time everything
they had hitherto possessed was religiously lost, burnt
or given away to the inevitable poor relations who had
visited their walk-about camp. In the matter of
apparel, the choice was between the coat-over-shirt
style and the more abbreviated “jumper suit.” Such
of them as favored
the latter attire were
usually in a state of
exhibiting a large
expanse of flesh be-
tween the top of
their trousers: and
the waistband of
their jackets. This
was particularly evi-
dent in Mundee’s
case, he having an
exuberant habit of
flinging his arms up
and performing in-
elegant acrobatics
from any crossbeam or rafter of convenient height.
On the morning marked for the general depar-
ture to the mustering camp the precincts of the home-
stead were strewn from the yard to the saddle-shed
with the necessary equipment and gear. It seemed
{Continued on page 50.)


N°l7*
BRONCHO SADDLE
£lB/5/-
(COMPLETE).
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
ONE OF THE FINEST COW-
BOY SADDLES WE MAKE
TEXAS
SPURS.
No. 15 1 3.
Gold colour,
with nickel
spot, 30/-.
Post 1/-.
No. 6863 —Gold
colour, as illus-
trated, but with
Bison head, 21/-.
Post 1/-.
Write for Saddlery Catalog No. 361
and see full list of Cowboy Gear, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. Darvall, General Managrer.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Grapplers?
BY CON DREW
GRAPPLERS? You never know
when you’ve got them fellers. As
the famous admiral Sir Horatio
Drake said of the bullets they issued
at Trafalgar, “they ain’t no more depend-
able than a hemp cable over a rocky
bottom.”
When the game was startin’ to boom
in Melbourne me and Brusher Simpson
had a grappler called Wazoff who, if
looks count for anythin’, should have
rose to big heights in the stranglin’ pro-
fession. He weighed close on seven-
teen stone, and most of it was muscle.
Apart from liftin’ planners and other
showman stunts, he was the strongest
man I’ve seen. We hadn’t had him a
week before he heaved one of his
wrestlin’ partners so hard agen the oppo-
site wall of the gym. that the bloke near
stuck there. When he woke up he was
lyin’ in state in the general hospital.
Another partner had his wishbone staved
in, and didn’t come back for a second
dose.
Wazoff was a trifle peculiar in his
ways. Sometimes he’d go for hours
without sayin’ a word to no one. Then
maybe we’d find him sittin’ in the corner
of his room hummin’ a song called “The
Vodka Boatman.” He could sing a
bit, too, when he liked, but his talkin’
ability was on the blink. Our conver-
sations with him would go somethin’
like this:
“Good mornin’, Wazoff. Sleep well?”
“Vhaf?”
“I ask if you have good sleep last
night.”
“Esleep?”
“Yes.”
“Yah. I esleep.”
“That’s good.”
“Vhat?”
“I say that’s good.”
“Yah. Goodt.”
With a talkative bird like that on our
wheels every day you can bet we en-
joyed his company immense.
“I’d feel a lot better,” says Brusher to
me one mornin’, “if Wazoff’s thinkin’
gear was a wee bit more robust.”
“He ain’t what you’d call a Solomon,”
says I, “but, lookin’ at it one way, that’s
all to the good.”
“As how?”
“Well, he’d be less likely to take a
flop on us, for one thing.”
“Why would he want to put up a
schlenter on us?”
“You can search
me,” I says, “but
it’s been done be-
Tre, you know.”
“Yes, but Wazoff
won’t put nothin'
over on us,” says
B rusher. “He’d
have nothin’ to
gain by sellin’ us
a pup. On top of
that he’s dependin’
on us for his
tucker.”
“That's true,” I says, “and, talkin' of
tucker, it’s time we switched him up
with somebody. The biscuit barrel is
gettin’ low.”
The woods weren’t so full of wrestlers
in them days as they are now, and it
took us a couple of weeks to get Wazoff
a match. At last we stacked him up
agen a chesty gent, who called himself
the Russian Bear. He’d bumped off a
few baboons in Sydney and had come
to Melbourne lookin’ for further tri-
umphs. When Brusher told Wazoff we’d
matched him with the Russian Bear he
screwed up his dial into a sort of grin.
“I fool that feller,” he said.
It was a long speech for Wazoff, and
Brusher and me were surprised.
“You want to look out he don’t
fool you,” says Brusher. “He's not a
bad grappler, by all accounts.”
“Bah!” grunts Wazoff, and walks
away.
“He seems to be pretty confident,”
says Brusher. “A man might do worse
than back him,”
“Yes,” 1 says; “but I’d rather he
wasn’t wrestlin’ another foreigner. When
two foreign gents, get up agen each
other you don’t know how they’re goin’
to gallop.”
'There you go agen,” says Brusher.
“I told you that Wazoff was straight.”
. right,” says I, “if you think he
ain’t likely to sell us a pup we’ll put a
pony on him on the night of the debate.”
THERE was two weeks to go before
* the affray was billed to come off, and
we kept Wazoff well up to the collar in
his training. He had walkin’ exercise
each mornin’, and in the afternoon he
put in an hour or so at wrestling. After
tea at night we took him out for a stroll,
and saw that he went to Blanket Bay at
nine o’clock. He was jumpin’ out of his
skin when the day came round.
At half-past eight that night we took
him down to the hall. The place was
full of smoke and foreigners. There was
so many aliens present that if we hadn’t
known where we were we’d have thought
we’d stumbled on a meetin’ of the
League of Nations. There was a couple
of Melbourne bookies present of course,
and, just before the grapplers entered the
ring, Brusher gave a mate of ours a
pony and told him to put it on Wazoff
at the best price he could get. After a
bit he came back and told us we were
set at even money, and we took Wazoff
into the ring and squatted him down in
his corner.
Our angle was what was known as
the timekeeper’s corner, there bein’ no
ring clock in them days. The time-
keeper sat near the ropes and worked an
electric bell let into the side of the ring
staging. He was a sour-lookin’ gent.,
and it wasn’t considered too lucky to be
working near him. Still, lucky or not',
we had drawn his corner and we had to
put up with it.
After a wait of a couple of minutes the
Russian Bear climbed through the ropes.
He was a full stone lighter than our
gorilla, but he looked every inch a
grappler. He had splendid shoulders and
arms, and I noticed that he had a scar
or two on his dial, as if he’d been in a
few tough battles. The crowd seemed to
like his general make-up, and gave him
a real good welcome.
The go was to be for three eight-minute
rounds, with three minutes’ spell between
each round. While the announcer was
explainin’ the conditions to the crowd,
Brusher says to Wazoff, “You 0.K.?”
“Vhat?”
“You feel all right?”
“Yah.”
“Good,” says Brusher. “What you’ve
got to do is to put him on his back for
the count as soon as you can grab hold
of him. Mix it with him all the time,
and don’t give him a chance to play ring-
a-ring-a-rosy. If you see a chance of
puttin’ a hot one in when the referee
ain’t lookin’ that’s all to the good, but
don’t do nothin’ that will get you dis-
qualified. Do you get me?”
“Vhat?”
“You understand?”
“Yah. I fool heem.”
“Well, see that you do,” says Brusher.
“That’s all.”
Then the referee came in, and a minute
later the baboons were at it.
Gripes! Wazoff carried out his instruc-
tions all right. He went straight for the
Bear from the start, and never gave him
a chance to get set. Wazoff was like
a ragin’ tornado let loose in the ring.
Half a dozen times in the first few
minutes he had the Bear in serious
trouble, but the Russian always managed
to avoid bein’ pinned. It was a wonder
to me how the Bear stood the strain.
Wazoff dumped him so many times that
I lost count of the number. The Bear
was a game ’un though, and always came
back for more. This went on all through
the first round and continued through
the second.
The Bear looked a trifle sick when he
,came up for the third and last round,
and Brusher nudges me elbow. “It’s the
end of the section,” he says. “The Bear’s
done.”
DUT the Bear wasn’t done, though he
looked to be mighty near it. He took
enough punishment to satisfy an ordinary
man, but he hung on to his job like a
game ’un. Half-way through the round,
when Brusher and me were telling each
other that our wager was as good as
won, a chap we knew comes up and
says: “There’s a foreign bloke in the
third row of chairs who must believe
in miracles,”
“Why?” says Brusher. “What’s he
doin’?”
“I seen him take fifteen pounds to five
twice about the Russian Bear,” says the
bloke.
Brusher looked thoughtful for a bit
and then he laughed, “He must be mad,”
he says.
“I think so, too,” says the bloke and
walks away.
After a bit he comes back agen.
“There’s somethin’ doin’ all right,” he
says. “The foreign bloke is backin’ the
Bear as if there weren’t no settling day,
and the bettin’ has hardened to 2 to 1
on.”
“Gripes, that’s funny!” says Brasher,
lookin’ at me serious.
“It’s about as funny as a crutch,” I
says. “We’re gone to the pack.”
“There can’t be nothin’ crook goin’
on,” says Brasher. “Wazoff wouldn’t
stand for it.”
“Every man has got his price,” says
I. “Anyhow, we’ll know directly. Keep
your lamps on ’em.”
Just then the Bear fluked a hold on
Wazoff and dumped him pretty heavy.
It seemed to jar our bloke, and he got
up slowly. When he did get on to his
feet he seemed to have lost a good deal
of his pep. 1 looked at Brasher, but he
didn’t say nothin’. Later on the Bear
got another hold and dumped Wazoff
agen. This time our bloke was slower
still in gettin’ on his feet, and Brasher
turns to me. “I’d have gambled me life
on Wazoff bein’ straight,” says he.
“Surely he ain’t goin’ to let us down.”
“That’s just what he’s doin’,” I come
back. “Look at him.”
The Bear was forcing the battle now,
and was followin’ our bloke around the
ring.
“Go in at him!” yells Brasher. “You’re
leadin’ by a mile. Go in at him.” But
Wazoff don’t seem to hear. He stands
off and kids to play for safety. It was
a nice jamb to be in. Here we were
with our money practically won, and we
were goin’ to lose it cold unless a miracle
happened. I knew what the next move
would be, and it came when there was
about two minutes left of the round.
Wazoff was backin’ towards the ropes
when all of a sudden the Bear dives in
and slams him down on the mat. He
was on top of him instanter and switched
on a double nelson. Wazoff tried to
make it look as if he was puttin’ up a
wonderful battle. It didn’t even fool the
crowd, and they started to count the
grapplers out.
Gradually the Bear levered Wazoff
over, and I turned me head away, for I
hate seein’ coldblooded murder done.
“It’s the end of it,” I says to meself.
“We’re done.” Then all of a sudden
I heard a clatter next to me ear which
sounded like a dozen alarm clocks goin’
off at once, and 1 snapped my head back
lively. I hadn’t allowed for the bell, and
neither had the gorillas in the ring. They
had left their ran a wee bit too late.
Lookin’ a bit surprised, they got to
their feet, and the Bear unloosed a lot
of foreign lingo at the referee. The
crowd, which was sick of the show,
roared him down, and the ref. crowned
Wazoff the winner. The play was over.
II7E said farewell to Wazoff at the door
*" of the hall, and Brasher, who had
a forgivin’ nature, only jinked him for
a fiver when handin’ him his percentage
of the gate-money. On the way to the
tram I says to Brasher, “Crikey, that
was a near thing. If that bell had gone
two seconds later we would have been
separated from twenty-five quid.”
“I knew that when I rung it,” says
Brasher. “It cost us a fiver, though, to
keep the timekeeper from squealin’. He
reckoned there was nearly a minute to
go.”
“What odds?” says I; “it was worth
it.”


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager; J. Gi H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
:.• M f( It:
ttaMuii
p « m |« |
■ IT •'•
j I ' 1 \ ;: ; i.|
' K '-
m.
m Jm
M :
-aa
Sfssi
n
;..j
—'^'r^r —pir-'Hwn
; ! ’:i; ; :S si- !|sli!ii|;i /;■:? Ml
5 I
w
» I
t- f
: I
"M k'
-II i
£f«2
1
i - t.
gf*f
Uuniv
&
■i;*
mmk \
ts
j/.aVh
flame is
(T) c Callums
X UlAisAy is-
-36 B
Distributors for the House oj McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course. The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“The Glorious Traditions of the Free,
Unfettered Press”:-
THE PRESS COMES
TO SANDVILLE
BY G.E. MAYMAN.
'■pHE minutes of the previous meeting
I having been read and confirmed, the
1 members of the Sandville Roads
Board shuffled in their chairs and pre-
pared to close the monthly meeting, but
with a, casual gesture Woods, the secre-
tary, produced a neatly-typed letter.
“Correspondence, chairman, if you
don’t mind,” he said with feigned care-
lessness
The board looked up with interest,
Barney Harris cou S hed to hide his over-
sight and blinked vaguely “Of course,
ot course. 1 will now ask the secretary
to read correspondence received. Stid-
denly the import of the secretary s re-
mark dawned upon him. Dammit,
Woods,” he cried excitedly, “you mean
you’ve got a letter from someone. Read
it, man, read it.”
Woods rose from his chair, cleared his
throat importantly and commenced to
read.
“You—you mean someone’s going to
start a newspaper in Sandville?” asked
Smith, of the Sandville Gold Develop-
ment Company, crudely summing up
Woods’s carefully-emphasised recitation.
Woods glanced over his spectacles. He
preferred to approach facts in a less
direct manner.
“Er—the National Press of Austral-
asia, Inc.,” he repeated, carefully rolling
the words, “in their letter to hand, whilst
they have not given notice of the actual
date of their initial number have, as no
doubt you gathered, signified their mten-
tion of establishing a tn-weekly paper
to circulate throughout Sandville and dis-
trict. This is their formal notice to the
Roads Board, as chief civic controlling
body of Sandville, of their proposed ven-
ture, and they ask our fullest co-opera-
tion and good wishes.”
“The matter is now open for discus-
sion,” shouted Barney Harris, vainly
striving to be heard above the eager
voices of the board, swept up with the
emotion which such a significant step in
the march of progress had brought.
THE atmosphere of suspense that hung
* about the station as Sandville awaited
the arrival of the weekly train and the
representative of the National Press of
Australasia was one of some regret, as
well as pleasure and excitement. For the
returning train was to take away Frank
Fuller, the Mining Registrar, on tour
weeks ieave, during which, if he could
find the time, he was going to have a
try (or the State ping-pon| champion-
ship. It was unfortunate that Fuller’s
departure should coincide with the arri-
val of the press, for his farewell cele-
brations were overshadowed by the for-
msd welcome given to Bull, the news-
paperman "
The welcoming committee took Bull
back to town in Barney Harris’s truck,
a somewhat heavy, formal group, awed
as if in the presence of a minor deity.
« A j , , ~ y ,
• n f Can e^p e no» B i, st
issue of the paper, Mr. Bull?” timid y
inquired Woods
“All the junk came up in the train,”
briskly replied Bull. “My offsider’s
taking care of it. Just have to shove it
together in that back room of yours.”
“My back room?” interposed Barney
Harris. “You can use current from my
electric-light plant as arranged.”
“Now the title of the paper. Bull.
Sandville, we are proud to say, is a centre
of our State’s two most important indus-
tries, that of goldmining and the produc-
tion of wool. The title should have re-
presentatiye appeal perhaps the ‘Sand-
\!r 6 t „ sto , ra i l st and M lner > hinted
Marshall, the bank manager,
Bull waved an airy hand. “Been
decided long ago. The ‘Telegram.’ And
it’ll be a sure-fire success. The N.P.A.
know the news game from A to Z. Got
picked, experienced men running all their
papers. Of course, some centres are
more difficult than others to educate up
to our standards ; refuse to keep abreast
or modern progress and that sort of
filing. But I’ve been on papers in every
r^ t C th ® country. That’s why they
me to knnu he / i e . to s^ art thin § s - Trust
me to know what makes a paper sell.”
“Splendid, Mr.
Bull,” said Jim
McGrath, of the
Sandville Pastoral
Comp any. “By
the way, I
brought this
along for you to
read over. A
couple of my
niggers worked
out a new method
of dingo - trap-
ping—dam’ good scheme it is, too. The
drought north has driven a hell of a lot
down to our fences. Perhaps you could
print it in the paper—the men in my
game would be pleased to read about it.
Smith, of the Gold Development Com-
pany, pressed forward. “Yes, and, Bull,
out on the mine we’re experimenting with
an improved mill for sulphides. In the
interests of the small mineowners in
out-of-the-way spots I could send in de-
.particulars of progress each
W * > 6 ± roughed out a few no , es
referri (0 , he e “ cd | ent work done by
(he , ocal hospital> .. said Dr . Rogers. “We
obtain a smaU su bsidy from the Govern-
nient, of course, but not nearly enough.
jf you cou ld emphasise the pressing need
for a small X-ray plant I’m sure a sub-
scription list could be opened by the
Telegram.’ ”
Bull shook hands all round. “Gentle-
men, I am deeply touched by your co-
operation. 1 see that our interests in the
welfare of the community aie mutual.
He took up his beer Er-now let s get
bd ' d ‘>”’° uslness ‘ en ale e 1 accs
. e „ R Hospital BaU af(ernoon
and Easter; . ; nsw J ed Mick Scanlon,
who ran the p a i ace Hotel,
Bull staggered at the unexpected blow.
“What? Only twice a year? Still, what
ar e the other sporting fixtures for the
next few months?”
“Well,” said Scanlon, frowning heavily
to concentrate, “Smith from the mine
hig b are thinking of playing the
’ cricket—nothing fixed vet—a tennis
own cnck f. n .V V .. a , ten
tournament in aid of the hospital some
dme m future. an u-i?- rT !j^u t . tin^
I 1 ! 3 a , tenner for the bilhaid bieak
111 a lew wee^s time,
An inscrutable mask settled over Bull's
futures, hiding the acute dismay Micks
information had brought,
“H’m! No boxing?” he asked,
“Nothing official. Still, sometimes on
a Saturday night”
“Dammit,” asked Bull desperately,
“didn’t you send a team down for Coun-
try Week cricket?”
“Unfortunately, no,” said Marshall,
the bank manager. “It was suggested,
but young Fuller was the only one who
could get away—expensive business, you
know ”
Bull’s mantle of gloom and despon-
dency momentarily lifted. “Yes, Fuller—
didn > t j hear he plays pin g- p ong?”
t < VI7 , , , ,
We ha '[ e „ a « ame at .. ,be P ab now and
! he "’ smd Scanlon Frank may play
,n .? e , 01t J y .' f „ he , flnds bl ™i’ . „
. Splendid, cried Bull jovially. The
citizens of Sandville can be assured that
the ‘Telegram’ will maintain the glori-
ous traditions of the free, unfettered
P res ? o£ n ? b ]f coun 7’ . II w ‘ n ba
a mirror, he d aloft upon the pmnacles of
high Pnnctples, reflecting the true opinion
and thought of the dls, " ct and P eo P e ’
which it will fairly and courageously
represent. Gentlemen, the ‘Telegram’!"’
The Telegram ! they echoed.
“ And Mr * Bul1 ’” added McGrath > “a
gentleman who brings to our township
aB that experience and skilled direction
gathered from the desks of those fearless
organs of the city whose sympathy and
protection give us, battling almost un-
known in such places as these, added
hope and courage to continue the devel-
opment and settlement of this splendid
country.”
COR a fortnight Bull and his mate were
f to be seen wrestling with mysterious
machinery in Barney Harris’s back-
room, until in some miraculous way a
small printing press and sundry benches
took shape.
Early one Saturday morning Sandville
hung over its front gate and greeted Bull’s
assistant with cheers as he rode down
the main street on a bicycle and tossed
the “Telegram” right and left,
At midday a cautious group greeted
Bull as he strode confidently into the
Palace bar.
“Well,” he cried, slapping McGrath
who was in for the week-end, heartily on
the back, “what do you think of her?”


Sergeant Jeremiah Murphy
the First Depositor in the First Bank
April 8, 1817, when the Bank of New
South Wales opened for business, the first
customer was Sergeant Jeremiah Murphy, of the
46th Regiment of Foot, He deposited £5O. He
was followed by Mr. John Harris, of Ultimo,
Sydney, and Mr. William Redfern, of Sydney,
one of the first Directors of the Bank.
By January, 1818, deposits had increased to
£1,859 and the Bank had advanced £1,381 on
mortgages to its customers.
To-day deposits held by the Bank of New South
Wales total over £88,000,000, whilst advances to
customers are over £73,000,000.
Thus, the Individual depositor plays a vital part
in the financing of the country’s production and
trade. As deposits increase the Bank is enabled
to extend still further its financial assistance to
industry.
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
die
Coron ailon
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. “NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. “NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
“Er—-I see Frank has entered for
the ping-pong championship,” ventured
McGrath.
“Yes,” said Woods, somewhat puzzled.
“I thought Frank had gone to the coast
mainly for a holiday. Been up here
three years without a break. From the
paper, though, I see he only went down
to play in the tournament for Sandville’s
sake.”
“Ha, ha,” laughed Bull, “We news-
papermen have a way of rooting out the
truth. We are born psychologists—
there’s always some motive behind any
human being’s action other than that
which appears on the surface, and that’s
what we bring to light.”
“I see they think a lot of his chances
in the city,” pondered Scanlon. “Look,
‘Sandville Tornado Tipped to Sweep
State Title.’ I wonder what his price is,
Mac? What about wiring away a
tenner?”
They were interrupted by the entrance
of Marshall, the bank manager, somewhat
flushed. “I say, Mick, may I borrow your
paper?” he inquired.
“But surely our first number was de-
livered this morning?” queried Bull.
“Er—yes, but I only managed to read
a few words . . . er —my wife, I’m afraid,
is.. . . er —well, we only take the more
conservative weeklies for our general read-
ing. That—er —advertisement covering
the front page—corsets and —er —founda-
tion garments, I believe they were termed
—most unusual . . . and that Amaz-
ing Medical Discovery ... I mean to say
my wife”
“Yes, yes, marvellous scoop that,” an-
nounced Bull. “Worth twenty pounds
to the paper. Big firm had a surplus
stock after a sale and gave us the adver-
tisement.”
“Bull,” asked McGrath, as he again
studied the pages carefully, “I don’t see
that bit about the dingo trapping.”
“Dingoes? Oh, no. To-day’s edition
was rather crowded ; had to cut a lot of
excellent copy. But did you see that
article about a woman’s pet sheep on St.
Helena? I knew that would create tre-
mendous interest among the grazing
fraternity.”
“And the sulphide treatment details?”
asked Smith dismally.
“That was bad luck, too. Still, that
news of the possibility of immense ore
deposits in the Antarctic will undoubtedly
have far-reaching influence upon those
connected with the mining industry in this
district. Sorry, too, about the hospital
write-up, doc., but that sensational story
of the operation on that opera star’s
throat in Vienna should disclose what
valuable work the local hospital does up
here.” Bull shook his head with pity and
sympathy as he noted the fallen faces
of Sandville.
“Gentlemen,” he said a little sadly, “in
this first issue of the ‘Telegram’ I flatter
myself I have not underestimated the in-
telligence of Sandville. As you know, I
have served a long apprenticeship on
some of the largest and most powerful
papers in this country; In pursuit of my
calling I have travelled to practically all
the countries of the world. I think
therefore you will agree that when I
bring the blessings of the press to Sand-
ville I do not come unfitted for my
task.
“It is, and I think you will agree with
me here also, one of the primary duties
of the press to educate the people. That
is the compass point by which I steer
the ‘Telegram.’ Here in Australia we
have not the rich background nor the
tradition and art of the Old World. But
in the pursuit of a national culture of
our own we are inclining too much to
the parochial. There is a tendency to
live too much to ourselves, to become
too provincial. A regrettable tendency
to overrate the importance of the
national as against the international. And
we must never forget the solemn fact
that the future of humanity rests firmly
upon the friendly relationships of all
nations.
“It is this international viewpoint
which Sandville must be educated to
appreciate. Sandville must look further
afield than its own petty acres. Sand-
ville’s gaze, narrowed by wanting to con-
cern itself with its own difficulties and
destiny, must widen. Sandville’s in-
feriority complex, as it were, its Un-
healthy desire to read about itself in its
own press, must gradually be broken
down. That, gentlemen, is the duty of
the ‘Telegram,’ to broaden and stimu-
late the vision of this centre. Sandville
must take its place shoulder to shoulder
with the rest of the country and cease to
regard its own importance.”
The spell of admiration which held
the listeners was at last broken by
McGrath.
“Thank you, Bull,” he said huskily ; “it
was selfish and narrow of us to want to
see news of our own district in our own
paper.”
“That’s all right, old fellow,” returned
Bull kindly, patting him on the shoulder.
“We have some marvellous stuff for next
week. Two pages from Our Own Corre-
spondent in Hollywood, the private lives
of the film stars and all about the
Dionne quintuplets—overflowing with
human interest and poignant appeal.”
“Well, it was good of you to tell us
about Frank, anyhow,” said Scanlon
feelingly. “It must have been a sacrifice
putting so much in about him, I mean,
seeing he came from Sandville.”
Bull regarded him blankly for a
moment. Then he sighed heavily.
“Ah, my good friends, but don’t you
see the vital international significance of
our champion journeying afar to appear
in healthy rivalry with the giants of
other centres? Sport is the great bond
which knits this country of ours together.
Its strong strands reach over all the
world ; its lofty ideals do more than
any trade treaty to bring to suspicious
nations the principles of common brother-
hood and peace. And then we judge,
by the efforts and sportsmanship of our
countrymen in competition with others,
our own progress forward in comparison
with our neighbors.”
IN Tuesday’s paper Sandville learned
that “Fuller’s devastating service and
miraculous placements in practice left
his opponent dumbfounded. Such all-
round brilliance has not been seen for
years, and the Sandville boy is regarded
by the critics as certain to take the State
honors.”
This clinched matters, and Scanlon hur-
riedly wired off ten pounds on Sandville’s
behalf to a city bookmaker.
By Thursday “Fuller has secretly
perfected an uncanny backhand slice, the
effectiveness of which must be seen to
be believed.”
Saturday’s edition devoted two exclu-
sive pages to the Sandville champion’s
progress and forecasts of his chances,
with stories of his early struggles, dis-
appointment and ultimate rise from ob-
scurity. As there was only one photo-
graph of the champion and news was
scarce, Japan’s refusal to buy Australian
wool had to be bolstered up to six
inches, and to fill in space beneath a pic-
ture of Clark Gable room had to be
given to the Prime Minister’s firm stand
upon tariff reform.
Once the heart of Sandville almost
stopped beating, when the shocking news
of a strained ankle came through, with
harrowing details of the sufferer’s agony
and his fortitude and courage under treat-
ment.
The day before the championships it
was learned that the “Telegram” tipped
him to carry all before him, and that
‘‘Fuller’s opponents are utterly unnerved
by his flawless practice displays. The
panther-like grace with which he moves
about the table, his sparkling forehand,
his impeccable length, his amazing tim-
ing, his unreturnable service, but above
all his splendid sportsmanship and
modest bearing have won him, and all
Sandville, a place in the annals of sport
which will never be forgotten.”
Sandville’s heads were held high and
hearts beat quicker ; they spoke together
with quiet pride in their voices ; Scan-
lon was commissioned to wire away an-
other twenty pounds.
The morning after the championship
Sandville was up at dawn to scan the
“Telegram.”
Big London Wedding—Australian
Meets King—Princess Marina—Austra-
lian Narrowly Ousted in American Open
—Shirley Temple—Australian Woman
Addresses League of Nations—Actress
Engaged, Married, Divorced —Italian
Count Admires Australian Beaches—
Atlantic Flight—Australian Girl’s Success
in Paris. Ah, here it was. Why, no, it
wasn’t. There were two pages devoted
to form and prospects for Mick Scan-
lon’s billiard tournament the next week.
But no ping-pong results.
“Perhaps the wires are down some-
where,” hazarded Barney Harris. “Any-
how, Frank will be home to-morrow.”
THE flags were out on the station as
the train drew in. Whistles blew, and
Frank was carried shoulder high to a
decorated truck to the strains of “See the
Conquering Hero.”
“Where is it, Frank?” demanded the
delighted Scanlon.
“Where’s what?” asked the bewildered
Fuller.
“The cup, of course ; we all want to
see it.”
“Oh, good Lord, I was put out in the
first round. I only entered to get some
practice.”
“You —you mean to say you didn’t
win, after all we’ve read?” truculently
demanded Scanlon.
“Dammit, man, you must have won.
We had thirty quid on you,” said Barney
Harris.
know, Harris,” said Marshall
* round at the Palace a little later, “I
don’t think the van of progress quite suits
Sandville. I mean, don’t you think too
great a load is thrown on that dynamo
of yours giving current to Bull’s con-
founded newspaper?”
Hoar Frost.
Cold, cold, the winter’s frozen breath
Had broidered and embossed;
And midnight, with a brittle wreath
Of scintillating frost,
Had roughened with rime the sliprail bars
And crisped the roadside mire:
The sky was rich with flashing stars,
And orbed with icy fire.
And looking to that bright expanse
Of worlds unnamed, unknown,
1 saw more glory at a glance
Than emperors might own,
More gems than jewelled rajahs hold
In treasuries locked and barred;
All heaven was with flowering gold
So wonderfully starred.
Rime on the fronded canopies
Of fern and the austere
White pillars of the ringbarked trees,
Though all the rushes were
Like slender spears about the pond,
So delicately bold;
But the eternal hills beyond
Lay humped against the cold.
An engine’s shriek was like a sword
With sharp-edged silence crossed,
Setting a watch about the broad
White acres of the frost.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the Uritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The General Theory of Employ-
ment, Interest and Money.
By J. M. KEYNES. 5/-.
“The most important theoretical economic
writing since Marx’s ‘Capital,’ or, if only
classical economics is to be considered as com-
parable, since Ricardo’s ‘Principles.’ ”
— O. D. H. Colej “New Statesman.”
The Fear of the Dead in Primi-
tive Religion.
By SIR JAMES G. FRAZER, 0.M.,
F.R.S. Volume 111 (conclusion).
10/6.
“Sir James Frazer’s latest work, alike in
style and in scholarship, shows no falling off
from that high standard which for half a
century he has so consistently maintained.’’
—“The Times."
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
LATEST TITLES
Faster! Faster!
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
“Miss Delafleld writes with her usual com-
petence and with many amusing moments. The
children of the story arc, as she always makes
them, true to life; and though the men in
it are not so convincing, the women are all
excellent.” —“The Times.”
Caroline.
By RICHMAL CROMPTON.
“She deals with people whom we all know.
She succeeds (where so many fail) in making
them live and talk like real human beings.”
—“Daily Sketch.”
Old King Cole.
By EDWARD SHANKS.
“This very unusual and hair-raising mystery.
....It is all admirably written and constructed
and should produce a reminiscent shiver in
future every time one hears the nursery rhyme
which gives the book its name.”
—“Country Life.”
All Star Cast.
By NAOMI ROYDE SMITH.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," O/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, V FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone; BWI2IB
GIDDINESS
GONE —Woman
isdlA . . . "£nd&
(Di&ij. diiadiA;
J'cdnimq.
4%
y m
mi
i
‘For years I suffered ... Without
warning I would become faint • • •
dizzy. Black spots would dance be-
fore my eyes . . . everything would
whirl and become blank. I was
never safe from these fits. One day
I collapsed in the street. Luckily I
was with a friend.
».
“She had me placed under proper
care. Only then did I learn the
cause of my trouble. My colon was
clogged with fermenting food waste.
Virulent bacteria were breeding and
getting into the blood stream ...
undermining my entire system.
V-'
m
mi
“Self-poisoning was thus sapping
my energy, causing the terrible
attacks. I was advised to take
COLOSEPTIC to clean my colon,
to stimulate my intestinal muscles.
I’m glad I did. I feel 10 years
younger, now I never suffer at all.”
Coloscptic ends dizziness and fainting fils,
spots before the eyes and liverishness, be-
cause it removes the basic cause—self-
poisoning (or Autoxima)—brought on by a
clogged colon. Let COLOSEPTIC clear your
intestines of putrefying waste—and fainting
fits, which arc only symptoms, must end.
Experts agree COLOSEPTIC is safest. It’s
sure —too —because it also tones up the
kidneys, the pores of the skin, and the
respiratory system—the other three organs
which eliminate poisons from the body.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK
Coloseptic is sold by all chemists. If un-
obtainable locally write to Coloscptic
(Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Or clip coupon for generous demonstration
jar and the informative, intimate booklet
on Autoxima which is included— FßEE.
Coloseptlc
CLIP HERE.
Coioseplic (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE book on Autoxima.
Also send my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose 1/-
in penny stamps.
Name
Address
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
A Strange Tale of Hatred:-
SHADOW ON THE WALL
BY MARGARET FANE & HILARY LOFTING.
A SPARK caught at last. Breathing
heavily he got up from his knees ;
the fire was right. By the time he
got back from having a look at Straw-
berry and her calf there’d be a good
blaze, and he could cook his tea in com-
fort. Bluey, the old cattle-dog, sat on
his haunches at the back of the shack —
as far from the fire as he could get —
and watched him.
Lem chuckled. “Once bit, twice shy,
eh, Blue?” he muttered, and chuckled
vacantly again.
Bluey, old, patient, bearing no malice,
wagged his tail once, and followed the
boss down to the shed in the lower pad-
dock. Lem stopped at the shack window
and looked in.
No shadow on the wall yet. The fire
wasn’t high enough, and the light was
still too strong ; by the time he got back
Rover would be there on the wall, strain-
ing hell-for-leather at his leash, straining
his heart out to get at him. That vacant,
half-sibilant chuckle escaped him again.
If Rover ever did get at him , . . from
the wall—*-
But the chill evening breeze blew that
away. It was only a shadow, made by
the corner of the brick side of the open
fireplace, where the hob jutted out.
Every night it threw a shadow on the
wall, just over his bunk —a big black
dog, leaping and straining with the leap-
ing fire, snarling sometimes when a bit
of a flame got behind the hob.
Yes, it was a shadow. But it was
Rover, too. Just over his bunk. If he
ever got loose from that leash
Bluey buried his nose in a patch of
mud on the track, whimpering faintly as
he looked up at the boss.
“Tongue still sore, Blue?” Lem’s eyes
gleamed a moment in the gathering dusk.
“But that’s pretty near a week back—
you ought to be over it be now.” Bluey’s
whimper ceased ; he trotted in silence at
Lem’s heels.
“You want to be cleverer than that,
Blue,” Lem argued in his gentle, sibilant
voice. “If the boss chucks you a burn-
ing ember after a bit o’ damper you
want to dodge it, not swallow it whole.”
He looked down at old Bluey. “You
didn’t half let out a yelp when you found
what you’d got, did you?” he demanded,
his voice sharp and hard, bitter with hate.
Bluey fell back a couple of yards in
the gathering shadows. He knew that
voice.
Lem could see the dog’s contorted
body beside the fire last Thursday. He
was pretty sharp, old Bluey; you
couldn’t catch him easily. But he’d
caught him that time. One, two, three,
four bits of damper—and then a small
live ember out of, the fire . . . And he
caught it too and swallowed it . . .
Lem laughed softly, licking his lips;
tickled him up properly, too, from the
way he squirmed and hollered round
the fire for half an hour. And he was
still burying his nose in the mud, pretty
near a week after. Tough, old Bluey
was, tough and patient. And clever with
the cattle and the sheep—too valuable
to make a job of it. But you could
tickle him up every now and again—
like that dud bit of damper, and the big
burning ember stuck in his ribs. Lem’s
shadowy laugh sounded again.
That was six months ago. And it was
a good one. Bluey used to come in and
lie down by the fire to sleep. Lem
watched him a night or two ; it was often
hard work for a dog on the run, and
Bluey would drop off without waiting
for his tucker. There was a bosker bit
of white-gum in the fire —about a foot
of it red-hot and a clear six-inch unburnt
handle . . . Lem plunged it into the
sleeping dog’s ribs. And didn’t he tear
round the shack, yelping blue murder.
. . . Lem had laughed till the tears ran
down his narrow, leathery cheeks.
Bluey never came near the fire in the
shack now —squatted as far away as he
could and watched the fire and the boss
like a cat watching a mouse.
Dogs —dogs . . .
The burning glit-
ter shone in
Lem's eyes again,
bitter and im-
placable. They’d
had a good time
with him, turned
the world upside
down for him twenty years ago ; but he
was getting his own back on them by
degrees.
There was that big Alsatian, Prince,
that Charley Day wanted to sell. Big as
a horse, and tough—you could tickle
him up for years before you made a job
of it . . .
He’d taken a fancy to Lem, too. When
they met on the road Prince used to
chuck himself all over Lem. Dogs always
did take a fancy to Lem —at first. Lem
chuckled softly; they always would
while he had anything to do with it.
He’d buy Prince —he had put it about in
the township that he was willing—and
try a few new methods of tickling-up on
him. He was looking forward to that.
HE had a look at Strawberry and the
calf. She’d be O.K. for the night—
nothing wrong. He kicked Bluey in the
jaw with savage precision for coming
into the shed, and went out again into
the dusk, Bluey whimpering monoton-
ously at his heels.
“Losin’ yer nerve, Blue?” he asked,
his voice gentle and caressing. “Soften-
in’ up a bit on it, eh? You’d oughter
be tougher than that. What’s a Lick in
the jaw and a burnt tongue and burnt
guts to a hard old doer like you?”
Bluey knew that voice, too, and slipped
back a couple of yards again.
It was heavy going up the rise back
to the shack ; that dead weight was on
his chest again, his breathing and his
heart hammering away underneath it. It
had been a heavy day ; he’d be glad to
get his tea and to sleep, Rover or no
Rover over his bunk.
Rover . . . Rover’d been tough all
right, twenty years ago.
Lem’s face was suddenly white and
livid staring into the thickening shadows.
He saw, not the oncoming darkness, but
a lighted verandah and couples dancing
—saw Lilian dancing with young Hooper,
dancing with Carton, at last dancing with
him, Lem. Lilian thought a lot of her-
self ; so did he, Lem, think a lot of him-
self in those days. He meant to get her.
All those coots were fools. They hated
him because Lilian was falling for him,
because they felt his superiority. And
when he offered to show them a new
dance step, and was doing it on his own
on the verandah, some of them sooled
Rover on to him. Rover got between his
legs, tripped him and he fell flat. He
looked a fool, felt a fool, was a fool.
And they laughed—he could hear Lilian’s
high mocking scream of mirth pouring
out of this stealing darkness now . , .
That was the last he heard of her, too,
thanks to Rover. She married young
Carton and went down to Sydney.
But Rover . . . well, Rover went
through it, with a branding-iron, a shoe-
maker’s knife, salt well rubbed-in, a slow
poison or two. He was a big dog and
took a lot of punishment; Lem kept him
on the chain. Arsenic finished him off in
the end ; the wild anger and despair in
his dying brown eyes, the convulsions
that nearly pulled the strong chain apart,
were balm to Lem’s gloating spirit. Death
was a little thing ; but the preliminaries,
the delicate torturing details—Lem licked
his dry, grey lips.
And if he could get at him now —get
off that leash on the wall, over his
bunk . . . Bluey heard the boss’s soft
silky laugh and slipped back another
pace.
But the Days, Charley and Bob, were
going further up-country ; and he’d buy
Prince —he’d stand more punishment
than Rover.
A high wind sprang abruptly out of
the shadows, making his laboring breath
heavier.
Lassy, too ; she was a good cattle-dog.
You’d think she was tough, but she’d
cracked up after a couple of months.
Even the strychnine didn’t take more
than ten minutes . . .
Snowy and Spot were better. You
could keep a dog going a hell of a time
before you made a job of it. Prince
would last months.
Flip and Carrie and Albert—they all
had their points. Flip got around on
three broken legs —you’d be surprised , . .
Lem’s bitter animal face was grey and
livid, shining with sweat despite the high
wind. Hundreds of them, hundreds of
dogs in twenty years, all ministering to
the slow, steady, implacable revenge.
Rover made a fool of him. All right.
Rover could leap and tumble about on
the wall till the cows came home, but . . .
Lem chuckled vacantly as he breasted the
last rise to the shack. The wind beat
on his face, but it still shone with sweat.
He glanced at the wall through the
window as he passed. Yes, there he
was —tearing at his leash over the bunk.
There was a good fire going; he’d be
out of this wind and having his tea.
The door opened suddenly as he came
round the corner. A huge black dog
tore out of the shack, leapt at him, put
its forepaws on his shoulders . . .
The shack and the wind, the world,
swung away in a sudden vast thunder
that was choking him. Rover! A flame
of lightning lit all the shadows, was gone
in nothing. Nothing . . .
CHARLEY DAY looked at his brother
in consternation. Prince howled once
and slunk away from the body,
“My God!” Charley stammered. “He
said he’d buy the dog and we bring
him”
“Better get back home and telephone,”
Bob was kneeling, feeling Lem’s heart.
“He’s a goner. Get O’Grady at the
police station. Heart-failure, I suppose.”
Bluey, his spine-fur on end, sniffed at
the boss, walked into the shack and lay
down before the fire.


350,000 MILES AND STILL
ON THE ROAD EVERY DAY-
Surely this would
convince anyone
f
««a».
- 4p *no«,
’ S.S,
0a >r Slr>
. °ni y + *o
b*m ****
Jw »i- e
ai (f„ , c »otf (J ®“/ aorf r* or h
........ -i^S-sapa a„ •*
StH** ffi.v «?.
ha,
•'err
£*e«u - ’ * 'Cot/ .
'^du gn^t.
e bf **k* ( j an(i I c
***, r „ c > «>.
Uthr m, t
Ojv.
60.276
“A Reo truck with a mileage of over 109,000
9 OTHER TRUCKS doing in all ONE MILLION
MILES have equally good performances Texaco
Motor Oil is responsible” says H. Blakiston,
Customs & Shipping Agent, Geelong.
“A twelve year old A.E.C.
with 105,000 miles up is
a “working” testimonial to
the safe economical lubri-
cating qualities of your
oil” says H. Keogh,
Foreman Mechanic, North-
cote City Council.
m M
i A jS& 'mWS . •>
I
Think of it—350,000 miles with original valves and
main bearings still in the engine. This is definite
proof of what Texaco Motor Oil will do better than
any other oil.
You are assured of greater engine efficiency, longer
effective engine life and a considerable saving in
repair bills, no matter what car or truck you drive.
Make sure it is Texaco Motor Oil for you next time.
*
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
A MIXED GRILL.
William Patrick, who died in Perth
(W.A.) recently at 91, was a shrewd and
eminently-likeable Scot who put in a
sound record of public service, munici-
pal and Parliamentary. In the early days
of Cue, where he ran a drapery business,
he took an active part in local adminis-
tration and was always ready to back
a mining enterprise ; later on he repre-
sented the Central Province in the Leg.
Council for a dozen years. A son, also
a William, sits for Greenough in the
Assembly.
=i= * * *
“Victor H.”: Simpson Newland, one
of S.A.’s earliest-born, was a useful legis-
lator and citizen in his day, and will be
remembered as well by a novel, Paving
the Way. A fresh edition is being
brought out for the S.A. centenary
by his sons. Of these, Henry is a
leading Adelaide surgeon, and Marra
(or “Mick”) is now M.H.A., after an
interesting Central African career, during
which he helped to pilot Theodore
Roosevelt as a hunter. Phil, who died
young, was a prominent athlete and re-
serve wicketkeeper in an Australian XI
in England.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut”: Leper escapes (B.
24/6/’36) have been common enough in
the north. The record one was when 23
abos., of both sexes and all ages, awaiting
transfer to the Peel Island (Q.) lazaret
in Moreton Bay, stole away from the old
quarantine station on Friday Island (T.S.)
and were never found again. Sharks and
drowning probably accounted for most
of them. Peel Island, too, has had its
instances. The most notable of these was
when a man and a young woman, who
got away in a rowing boat, were married,
and spent six months in N.S.W., with a
final fortnight at Southport in the height
of the season, before returning quietly
one evening. Southport nearly went off
its rockers when the news got out,
although the risk of direct infection from
mild cases such as theirs is practically
nil.
* * * *
Supplementing his prediction that
“long before the completion of our
second century of settlement South
Australia will be governed by a Parlia-
ment legislating for the whole of Aus-
tralia,” State Crown Solicitor Hannan
said:
The change will be wrought either by
direct legislation repealing the Common-
wealth Constitution Act and substituting
a single Parliament, or by the gradual
transfer of the State’s powers to the Com-
monwealth.
Gradual transfer is the preferable
method (a start might be made with edu-
cation and income tax), and the process
need not take many years. But it is at
least interesting to learn that one
eminent legal authority considers that
Union could be accomplished by “direct
legislation.”
* * * *
Forgan Smith says it is “nonsense” to
suppose he might become Queensland
Governor:
You don’t think I would give up the
Premiership for that position, do you?
It would mean leaving an unsteady job
with 18 months to run for one at £3OOO
for five years, with a fine house and staff
and the probability of enough director-
ships afterwards to make a man indepen-
dent for life. It may be too great a sacri-
fice for Foggy, but plenty of other Scots
politicians would make it.
“Tabra”: Even devotees of the Aus-
tralian game of football don't always
know their Australian geography. When
a team from the Barrier visited Brisbane
recently to play the local lads the
match was advertised on showcards as
between “North Broken Hill (South Aus-
tralia) and Queensland.”
* * * *
“Menshevik”: Something like a sports
meeting was held in the great square at
Moscow to celebrate Constitution Day.
The paved square was covered with a
green carpet on which a Soccer match
was played and races were run. The great
turn of the day was the swimming.
There is no water in the square, so a
large tank was dragged across it, and in
this the swimmers did their turns. Why
the square was chosen instead of a
proper playing field has not been ex-
plained. The show, however, was
watched by Stalin and his offsiders, and
perhaps safety-first had something to do
with it.
* * * *
“Corbie”; Ball-stealing crows are get-
ting so bad on some Victorian country
courses that poisoned golf balls have
been suggested as a remedy. The prob-
lem would be solved in a month if the
crow were officially regarded as a game
bird and eaten, as in many of the Ameri-
can States. The Americans are mad on
game-preserving these days; they soon
found the egg- and chick-destroying
crow their worst enemy. A bonus on
crow heads proved ineffectual, so a drive
was started to try serving crow as a
game course at private and public meals.
The birds turned out to be tender and
succulent, and jumped into popularity
almost immediately. Now, in many
States, no hotel or banquet menu is com-
plete without a crow cawse, and the time
is coming when the one-time vermin will
be as strictly preserved as partridge or
quail.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.S.A.: “The Master Mind” was ingenious,
but it didn’t quite get past T.V.T.: Some
good lines in it, but not enough to carry the
poor ones on their backs F.M.: Both
trembled in the balance before the verdict went
the wrong way EJ.B.; A trifle too remi-
niscent of Ginger Mick, and the end is a
declension... .F.W.M.: One stanza, if only
for its obvious sincerity:
e blokes upon the land must pay an unemployment
tax
With money that a feller needs to buy the things
he lacks.
We useter get our goods by car before this Trans-
port Board
Arrived, and truck our lambs to town —and that
we could afford.
But now they say “To hell with you, you’ve gotter
use the rail” ;
And though it costs us twice as much it’s either
that or jail.
. ...J.G.C.: Conventional sentiments, labori-
ously phrased... .L.C.; We found your “Fallen
Idol” about as inspiriting as Humpty-Dumpty.
. ...D.H.L.: You should really know better
than to seek to rhyme “ear-phones” first with
“queer groans” and then (the horror of it!)
with “tear-tones” J.H.G.: Has the virtue
of brevity and little else A.E.M.: Dull as
ditchwater... .M.T.H.: It would brighten up a
culinary column; unluckily for you we don’t
run 0ne....C.P.: It’s a rare disqualification,
but there’s hardly enough of it J.W.: The
rhymes are all right, but your offerings are as
mechanical as inferior sermons... .J.L.:
One eve I wandered forth into the woods
In one of my many most despairing moods.
A futile excursion if you were in search of
inspiration W.S.P.: Feeble stuff, over-
loaded with inverted commas J.S.: Bayley-
street, Coolgardie, deserves something less
commonplace than that E.R.M.: A whirl of
words, but it lacks appeal M.M.0’8.: Can’t
make much of it....J.G.: “I send you six
articles which you may possibly deem of no
value.” Too right... .D.E.; If you think they
are worth publishing, or that there are any
rights worth reserving in them supposing they
were published, we differ. Still, you can try
elsewhere... .T.A.S.: Both totally untrue to
life.., .H.T.R.: Dialogue sound, but plot a
bit too melodramatic Oriole: And that goes
for yours... .L.R.Y.: Glimpses of wit, but
the humor is overdone. Get on to another
line for burlesque and tone it down
D.G.McS.: Long-winded... .J.S.E.: Ending
weak.., .H.P.W.: Treated more interest-
ingly it might have knocked with more
insistence... .W.P.H.: A paragraph about
every second line isn’t the thing, and the
plot is too amateurish 0.H.: Stories pre-
faced by the narrator being urged by his
cobbers around the campfire to “spin us a
yarn, Tom” are invariably duds E.K.: Read
plenty of good short stories if you would
study the technique, but plots will have to be
an improvement on those submitted T.S.:
Tolerable character study, but story peters out.
. ...R.G.: Nothing in either... .R.P.: Some
humor; not enough to carry the yarn.... R.L.:
You have the callow, near-society yap off to a
T, but the yarn itself doesn’t assist... .M.D.:
Excellent style and sound character etching —
now try both on a more solid plot W.L.:
Not bad, but not good enough to make the
cheque writer reach for his pen JJ.J.: That
is carrying imagery a bit far J.McL.:
“Rat’s Castle” the better of the two; it doesn't
quite get there... .C.V.S.: Well written, but
subject matter scarcely strong enough
M.H.: Article might suit magazine section of
a Saturday daily J.E.S. (U.S.A.): Regret
we have no niche for that monograph... .V.C.:
Just a yarn.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.M.: We took the animal to be a leopard
because of the spots, but it may be a new variety
of dingo R.L.W.: Drawing does not fit the
joke...A.N.; Regret decision to “take up art."
C.T.: Might appeal to the less serious
readers of a parish magazine J.8.K.; Attend
a life, class, for a few years... .H.D.: Such
coarse-surfaced paper is unsuitable for fine pen-
work... .G.R.: Sanctions cartoon is muddled
and ill-drawn... .E.W.: Some nice, sweeping
lines, but the drawing doesn’t hang together....
T.J.: Still plodding....S.T.A.; Creditable for
a youngster, but you need tuition... .H.N.:
The jest dates back to the Boer War and the
drawing lacks merit L.M.; What is Dad
doing with the dead whale?... .A.L.J.: Threat
to discontinue manufacture of humorous draw-
ings carries no sting 8.G.: Lean monstros-
ity, with map of Australia for a face, ordered
off the premises... .M.W.: Preferred the wash
drawings to those in line, but all are below
standard... .E.S.: The rider should be safe
from buckjumping on that, rocking-horse—
W.F.N.: Heavy cross-hatching put us off an
otherwise good piece of work... .A.H.: No
room for the hideous dwarfs with whom you
people your pictures... .M.F.: Matador and
half-starved bull are homing westward J.H.:
Wooden figures and an overworked wheeze.
W.M.P.: Fair slapstick efforts; gags need
brightening... .G.Y.: Same old drunk mak-
ing same old remarks to same old police-
man T.H.: Poses excellent, but penwork
ragged and scratchy... .C.F.: Now dozing
peacefully in the w.p.b.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 481 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 pan.). Din ner from 5.30 pan. (Sunday, 5.45 p.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
Generai, Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid contusion in filing and search, every inquiry
uust be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young cook-houseman, N.S.W., educated,
can drive car, city and country exp., wants
position anywhere.—2240.
Married couple require positions as caretakers
of flats or offices. Refs.—2287.
Young man (26), N.S.W., exp. in bank, office
and country store, wants work, preferably in
store or as traveller. G.P.S. education. —2310.
To buy A. E. Bassett-Hull’s Stamps of New
South Wales. —2273.
Words of following recitations: “Kissing
Cup’s Race,” “When the Wheat’s a Foot
Above the Fence” and “The Rio Grande,”
also the song “I Fear No Foe.” —2343.
Pen-friends in Java and Queensland interested
in science, geology and anthropology. (Write
to N. H. Brayshaw, Alabama-road, Blenheim,
M.L.)
Information Sought.
Can machine-guns be timed to fire through
the revolving propeller of an aeroplane ?—
2096.
Yes, this is common practice. A cam on the
propeller-boss depresses a piston which dis-
places oil in a pipeline. This displacement of
oil causes a plunger to be forced out at the
other end of the pipeline, thereby tripping the
trigger of the machine-gun. The cam is so
set in relation to the blades of the propeller
as to ensure that the impulse occurs when
the bullet will pass harmlessly between the
blades. Each time the propeller revolves the
trigger is tripped; consequently a rate of up
to 1000 rounds per minute can be attained.
* * * *
(1) Is Australia the main source of supply
of opal at present? (2) Any fields of conse-
quence outside Lightning Ridge, Coober Pedy
and White Cliffs, and which is the chief one
of those named ? (3) Is black opal found out-
side Lightning Ridge ? (4) Has opalmining
ever been done in Australia by a company ?
(5) Total value of opals found at Lightning
Ridge ? (6) Value per carat or ounce of good
black opal? —2149.
(1) Yes. (2) Small parcels of opal are won
periodically from several localities in Queens-
land. White Cliffs has produced most opal,
but Lightning Ridge is the largest producer at
present. (3) Yes, in southern Queensland.
(4) A company held leases at White Cliffs in
the early days of the field. An attempt was
made to work the gem by opencut mining,
but this method proved unsatisfactory. Later
the leases were let on tribute to individual
parties of miners. (5) Approximately £500,000.
(6) There is no set price. Prices ranging from
£400 to £600 per ounce have been obtained
for large pieces of best-quality opal in the last
few years.
(1) Date of death of bushranger Gilbert?
(2) Was Dunn ever caught? (3) What is the
best book on the bushrangers of the colonies ?
—2173.
(1) May 8, 1864. (2) Dunn was captured on
December 20, near Dubbo, and later hanged.
(3) The History of the Australian Bushrangers,
by G. E. Boxall, is good.
* * * *
(1) Dates and places of Sidney Kidman’s
birth and death ? (2) How long did he sur-
vive after he withdrew entirely from work,
according to Idriess’s biography? —2136.
(1) Born May 9, 1857, near Adelaide; died
Adelaide Sept. 3, 1935. (2) Mr. Idriess replies:
He took but little active part in the business
in the five years before his death, but never
entirely withdrew from work, visiting the Adel-
aide office several times each week. He held
his seat regularly at the Adelaide cattle sales
to within a few weeks of his death, and rarely
an evening went by without his son or one of
the senior officers of the organisation visiting
his home and telling him of the day’s events.
jjj -i* 't*
Where did the Australian aborigine originate,
and is there a definite date known when he
first occupied Australia ? —2232.
Basedow, in The Australian Aborigine,
asserts that remains found in Australia prove
that man existed on this continent at least in
late Tertiary times. The aboriginal Aus-
tralian bears an anthropological relation-
ship to the aboriginal inhabitants of India, the
Veddahs and Dravidians, and the fossil men
of Europe, from which the Caucasian race
sprang; he has for various reasons, chiefly lack
of opposing forces, remained more or less
exactly at the stage he was when, owing to
gigantic land subsidences, he was cut off from
the rest of the world. This theory of pre-
historic occupation by the ancestors of the
present aboriginal inhabitants, who correspond
to the Stone Age in the evolution of man, is
additionally supported by the presence of
animal and plant life which exists in other
parts of the world only as fossils of a period
before the separation.
* * * *
Was the Suez Canal closed against either
the United States or Spain in 1898 ? If so,
what are the particulars ? —1756.
The canal was not actually closed against
.either belligerent, the incident being as fol-
lows : On June 25, 1898, the Spanish Reserve
Squadron under Camara put into Port Said,
under sealed orders from Cadiz, and applied
for permission to coal; the Egyptian Govern-
ment refused to allow coal to be supplied, or
even taken from the Spanish colliers to the
warships, it being held that under international
rules this was illegal, as the Spanish ships had
sufficient coal with which to return to a home
port. On June 20 Camara was requested by
the Egyptian Government to withdraw from
Suez, as he had already much exceeded the 24
hours accorded to belligerents, nor was he
allowed to remain and effect what he claimed
were necessary repairs. On July 1 he sent two
transports into the canal and himself went
with the rest of his ships into the Mediter-
ranean outside of territorial limits and
attempted to coal. On July 5 and 6 the fleet
passed through the canal, but was at once
served with a notice from the Egyptian Govern-
ment to quit Suez within 24 hours, and in
conformity with this request he again went
beyond territorial limits, but was recalled by
the Spanish Government and re-entered the
Suez Canal on the return journey on July 8.
The fiasco, owing in the main to the indecisive
orders and vacillation of the Spanish Govern-
ment, cost that nation £64,000 in canal fees
for the double passage.
Is there anything in Captain Cook's log to
say that while his ship was getting repaired
on the bank of the Endeavour River he climbed
the mountain on Lizard Island to have a look
around ? —2334.
Cook made two expeditions, in the course
of which he climbed what be describes as
“a hill” and a “very high hill.” But they
were both on the mainland, the latter
excursion being seven or eight miles to the
northward and in the company of botanist
Banks. Having been repaired and refloated,
the Endeavour left the harbor on August 4,
and on the 11th Cook landed and ascended
the highest hill on the island which he subse-
quently named Lizard Island.
* * * *
Particulars regarding the loss of the Quetta,
including number of lives lost and saved ?
2291.
The ship left Brisbane February 18, 1890,
under the care of Captain A. Sanders and a
pilot, and on the night of Friday, February 26,
entered Torres Strait, where she struck an un-
charted rock near Mount Adolphus Island.
There was barely time to launch the boats,
not more than three minutes elapsing between
the time the vessel struck until she foundered,
and of the total of 282 persons on board 123
were drowned. Among the passengers lost
were members of a number of well-known
Queensland families.
* * * *
When was the training ship H.M.S. Eurydice
lost ? What was the captain’s name, and were
any lives saved? —2211.
The Eurydice, a frigate used as a training
ship, while returning from Bermudas foundered
in a squall off Dunnose Headland, near Vent-
nor, Isle of Wight, March 24, 1878. Captain
A. S. Hare was in charge, and, with Lieut.
Tabor and over 300 others, including a number
of military officers, supernumeraries and in-
valids from the West Indies, was drowned.
Of the whole ship’s company only two seamen,
Cuddiford and Fletcher, survived.
* * * =h
List of books by J. H. M. Abbott, with
prices ? —2195.
Tommy Cornstalk, which first appeared in
1902, was followed by An Oinlander in Eng-
land, Letters from Queer Street, The South
Seas, The Sign of the Serpent, The Story of
William Dumpier, Sally, The Governor’s Man,
Castle Vane, Ensign Colder, Sydney Cove,
Dogsnose and The King’s School. Most of
these are now out of print. The King’s
School is obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, 65.; and the same firm can supply Tommy
Cornstalk, 65., Sydney Cove, 2s. 6d., and
Letters from Queer Street, 12s. 6d. Some of
the second-hand shops may be able to supply
others.
* * * *
What books has J. H. Curie written, other
than “The Shadow Show,” and prices ? —2280.
This World First, To-day and To-morrow
(published at 7s. 6d.), Travels and Men (95.)
and This World of Ours (95.); The Shadow
Show is now published in a 4s. edition.
* * * *
(1) Can the relatives of a dead man, a
person whose business dealings were world-wide,
obtain damages for statements about him
which, were he alive, might be construed as
libel, though true ? (2) Some years since such
an action was brought by a son of the late
W. E. Gladstone ; what was the end of it ?
2263.
(1) An authority (Gatley) lays it down that
“Defamatory words published of a deceased
person are not deemed to inflict on the sur-
viving relatives of the deceased any such legal
damage as will sustain an action. Libel and
slander are essentially personal wrongs, and
the right of action therefore dies with the
person defamed. But it is a'criminal offence
to write and publish defamatory words of any
deceased person if it be done with intent to
injure and bring contempt on his family and so
provoke them to a breach of the peace.” (2)
In the case referred to a son committed a
technical assault on the offender, and the plain-
tiff was thus enabled to bring the action. The
object was to enable a complete refutation of
charges of immorality to be brought before
the public and not for any monetary recom-
pense. You would have very little hope or
success in a case where the damaging state-
ments were true.
* * * *
Is it possible for a member of the per-
manent military forces to buy a discharge?
If so, what is the cost ? —2090.
Soldiers of the permanent military forces
may be discharged at their own request if
the request is made within three months ol
enlistment on payment of the unexpired value
of the articles of kit issued to them, and of
additional sums as follows: If request is made
later in the first year of service, a payment ot
£2O must also be made; in the second year,
£l6; in the third year, £l2; in the fourth year,
£B, and in the fifth year, £4.
* * * *
(1) What is the State income tax on a salary
of £220 in Queensland? (2) Is any allowance
made for the support of dependants living in
N. S. Wales? (3) What, if any, is the allow-
ance on a life-insurance policy? —2lo7.
(1) On a net salary of £220 ( i.e., provided
there are no allowable deductions), State
income tax payable is a minimum tax of £2
if the taxpayer earned income in Queensland
during the whole of the income year. (2) It
the taxpayer earned income in Queensland
during the whole of the income year he would
be entitled to deductions for dependants wholly
maintained by him; wife £72, each child under
16 £6O. (3) The taxpayer who earned income
in Queensland during the whole ol the year
would be allowed the actual amount ot life-
insurance payments during the year, to a maxi-
mum of £5O; if part only of the year he would
be allowed proportionate amounts of life insur-
ance, deductions for dependants and statutoiy
exemption.
* * * *
(1) When and at whose suggestion was the
price of Imperial Reply Coupons fixed ? (2)
Who fixes the selling price of International
Reply Coupons, and how much do they cost
in Australia ? —lB5O.
(1) The price of Imperial Coupons was in-
creased from to 3d. on and from April 1,
1935, at the suggestion of the British Post
Office, as the charge of 2)d. made in Australia
was the equivalent of only 2d. in British cur-
rency. England increased its selling price from
to 3d. as from February 1, 1933. (2)
The International Postal Convention provides
that the selling price of International Reply
Coupons shall not be less than 35 gold cen-
times or the equivalent in the money pf the
country of issue. The Australian equivalent
of 35 gold centimes is approximately 7d., and
the Australian Postal Administration must
settle on a gold basis with the country which
cashes the International Coupons received from
Australia.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding the artificial color-
ing of flowers? —1921. . .
The methods are dusting, dipping or tinting
and absorption. Color powder or cake rouge
finely powdered is used for dusting work; it
should be applied sparingly with a puff or soft
brush, then shaken or dusted off. The dipping
is done with a liquid pastel tint or dye, into
which the bloom may be dipped; otherwise
apply with a camel-hair brush. Absorption of
color through the cut stalk requires experience.
Tinted liquids are prepared, and the flowers
must remain with stalks only immersed until
the color shades the petals or blooms. The
strength of the dye, length of time taken for
absorption and method of after-treatment are
matters for experiment.
* * #
(1) Method employed for quarrying lime-
stone for use as a lime mortar? (2) Any up-
to-date books on the subject ? (3) Particulars
of the lime used in cyaniding gold ores ?
(1) The usual practice is to drill holes in the
limestone and charge them with a suitable ex-
plosive, tamp the charges and then fire them.
The limestone is then broken up and conveyed
in trucks or barrows to a specially designed
limekiln and burnt at red heat. The calcium
carbonate of which it is composed then breaks
down into lime and carbon dioxide. The latter
is driven off, and the lime remains behind as a
powdery or lumpy substance which is more or
less white. (2) The process cannot be ade-
quately described here, but particulars will be
found in Bulletin No. 9, Limestone, Dolomite,
Lime and Hydraulic Cement, by L. J. Jones;
price 2s. Bd., post free from Mining Museum,
28 George-street North, Sydney. (3) Ordinary
building lime is used, but in extremely small
quantities.
* =i= * *
Formula of suitable substance for preserving
butterflies ? —2106.
No formula exists for preserving butterflies,
but there are various preparations which will
preserve them from the attacks of insects and
mould. If kept in boxes or tins they require
plenty of naphthaline, moth balls or camphor,
or, better still, paradichlorbenzine (sold by
Houghton and Byrne, 2 Bridge-street, Sydney,
under the name of Kilmoth). This latter is
more volatile than the former substances, but
is more effective. In the tropics mould is a
great enemy of collections, and for this reason
a small quantity on a piece of cotton-wool may
be placed in a corner of the box. The speci-
mens may be set on a setting board or kept
in butterfly envelopes.
* * * *
Briefly, how are white and brown sugar,
golden syrup and treacle made ? —2160.
The juice is separated from the sugarcane
fibre by crushing. It is then clarified and con-
centrated until crystals are formed. After
separation from the mother liquor, these crys-
tals are the raw sugar of commerce. The
lowest grade of raw sugar has a dark-brown
color. At the refinery raw sugar is dissolved
in water, further clarified and decolorised in
the refining process. The refined sugar is sepa-
rated by successive crystallisations, and the pro-
cess material gradually acquires a brown color
owing to the heat used for concentration. The
final grade of refined sugar, known as No. 3,
thus has a light-brown color. Golden syrup
is produced by special treatment of the syrup
remaining after most of the crystallisablc re-
fined sugar has been extracted. Treacle is simi-
lar to golden syrup, but has not been decolor-
ised to the same extent.
Brief Answers.
C.M.: There is no necessity to register a
nursery in Victoria. All nurseries are subject
to supervision by an inspector appointed under
the Vegetation and Vine Diseases Act, 1928, to
see that the plants propagated and for sale
are free from disease....H.G.P.: Cannot trace
the author as given; if, however, it is William
Falconer and the book is his Universal Dic-
tionary of Marine, worth 10s. to accord-
ing to condition... .N.C.T.: Write Pharmacy
Board of N.S.W., 157 Gloucester-street; and
Elliotts and Australian Drug Co., 29 O’Connell-
street —both Sydney G.D.: Particulars too
vague. Send a specimen... .A.P.S.; She
should be addressed as “Mrs. Mary Jane
Brown”... .A.H.8.: Get in touch with Miss
M. Vines, Correspondence Teacher in Dress-
making, Sydney Technical College, Harris-
street, Ultimo, Sydney E.J.W.; Write
Hocking Water Heater Co., 126 Homer-street,
Undercliffe, Sydney... .H.N.: Get in touch
with W. G. Watson and Co., 279 Clarence-
street, Sydney D. 8.: The chief services of
Louis Pasteur (1822-95) to humanity were in
connection with diphtheria, cholera, tubercu-
losis, yellow fever, bubonic plague and hydro-
phobia, for all of which, by his experiments,
he made prophylactic treatment possible. His
researches in fermentations also proved of
great value in the manufacture of vinegar
and the prevention of wine diseases... .T.H.:
(1) The dominant or positive type combines
personal magnetism with power of concentra-
tion. Hypnotic control is difficult to gauge,
hence its restricted use in surgery. (2) See
Hypnotism Explained, by Macey (3s. 3d. per
copy). (3) Yes... .P.T.: Cannot trace publica-
tion. In such cases some scarring usually per-
sists; there is no specific remedy. Plastic
surgery with skin graft is necessary when injury
penetrates epidermis or surface skin. Grease
paint (flesh 9) and cover liquids have been
mentioned P.A.L.: (1) Vitamins arc not
destroyed in a mixture of rum and milk. (2)
Vitamin B and derivatives are present in both;
amount depends upon method of preparation.
(3) Draught beer usually contains most....
C.C.: (I) Lemon juice is permissible if it
causes no digestive upset. The citric acid is
converted into carbonates in the system; dilute
with water for beverage. Possibly of more
benefit in biliousness and liver faults than in
rheumatism. (2) Liable if you guaranteed the
money. (3) Stated recipe is property of the
manufacturers... .D.R.R.: Value, if in mint
condition, is 6d H.P.: Paintings by the
artist mentioned were once fairly popular, but
are now out of fashion and bring only
small prices H. 8.: It was written by Pliny
the Younger and in English reads: “In the
function of listening the grace is lost if the
listener’s attention is demanded not as a favor
but as a due” H.C.M.: Anthracite does not
occur in commercial quantities in Australia
and is not marketed here... .N.J.W.: Write
Burns, Philp and Co., Bridge-street, Sydney
G.W.E.G.: (1) Write Cowles and Dunn, gun,-
makers, 71 King-street, Sydney. (2) E. Esdaile
and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney R.M.:
Yes, from ss. to 7s. 6d R.R.: Try Curtis
Brown, 6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, Lon-
don... .A. 5.8.: Parkerising, Bonderising and
Rustproofing Ltd., 5 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
J.P.B.; Obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., Castlereagh and Market streets, Sydney.
... .T.D.: From your description the violin
labelled “Maggini, 1687,” is one of many copies
and has no particular value. Genuine Maggini
violins are both rare and valuable. His labels
are not dated... .P.M.K.: There is no record
of any such violin maker as Gaetano Ronci.
... .A.C.R.: Recommend washing the floor
which has been coated with creosote with a
10 p.c. solution of washing soda (11b. soda
to Igal. water) as a possible remedy for “kill-
ing” the cause of the trouble if it is due to
phenolic or acidic substances present in the
creosote. Should this prove unsuccessful com-
municate with the Curator, Technological
Museum, Sydney... .A.D.: (1) A unit is equal
to 1 p.c. per ton, or 22.401 b. (2) There is a
limited market for molybdenite. Market price
is only nominal. The Climax Co., U.S.A., con-
trols the market. (3) Frank Hambridge, 22
Bridge-street, Sydney, purchases this metal....
N. : Communicate with Dr. C. H. Kella-
way, director, Walter and Eliza Hall Research
Institute, Melbourne, C 1... .V.M.S.; “Money
for the use of any public hospital” is exempt
from N.S.W. stamp duty; 4 no exemption in case
of private hospitals J.K.R.; The Queens-
land Cotton Board may be able to supply
cottonseed oil. A number of firms who handle
edible oils in Sydney are listed in the Telephone
Classified Directory. Cooking oil mentioned
is not known, but cottonseed oil is quite suit-
able for the purpose. Particulars regarding im-
port duties may be obtained from the Customs
Department, Sydney D.A.C.: (1) Yes, of
the child, but he is not required to maintain
the mother if he provides a reasonably suffi-
cient home for her and she refuses to live in
it with him unless she can show circumstances
which make such living intolerable. (2) No,
if the husband had a home for her and she
refused to live with him. Yes, if the medical
expenses were essential. (3) The mother is
entitled to the custody of the child during the
years of infancy A.A.; (1) Barney Ross was
born on December 23, 1909, at New York. (2)
He has won 40 fights, 13 of them k. 0., lost
three and drawn three. (3) Height, sft. 7in.
J.A.J.: You do not appear to be qualified
for appointment as a pilot at a Queensland
port. Furnish full information to the Port-
master, Brisbane, regarding your qualifications
and mercantile marine service, if any, and you
will be further advised in the matter L. 0.;
Write secretary, Superannuation Fund, the
Treasury, Adelaide F.A.F.: See The Aus-
tralian Mandate for New Guinea, by Eggles-
ton (ss. 3d.)... .C.H.: The only methods of
deep-sea net-fishing carried on from N.S.W.
are trawling and Danish seining. Both methods
are for the capture of bottom-dwelling fish,
the capture of pelagic species not having yet
been exploited in this country. Experienced
men with strong, reliable boats and gear can
make a living at either form of bottom fish-
ing, but the venture is not recommended to
any person who has not had considerable
fishing experience (Many others mailed.)


A>J S i l|M
a no
533N00 aim d g
vn ruxsn S.fNfd | :« XN>
rf
•l*N
h\ «y
o'v®
as?-***
s.
m
(1H«
rr“ ;
mm
gllp«i
•s .• V.
.'V <
«»:«*
pew
m
m
3S
; I f.)
0
V
There only could be one
reason —Quality at a
commonsense price.
Quality, the foundation
of which was laid years
ago when the finest in-
gredients were chosen ...
that was enhanced by
inspired blending ... that
reaches perfection after
many long years of aging
in the wood, until today
Old Court is one of the
world’s purest whiskies,
mellow and matured.
RING DOWN THE CURTAIN
BY “JASBY."
The sanctionist press learns that
“official circles in Moscow are of the
opinion that in the event of war between
China and Japan the Soviet would sup-
port any appeal for help made by China
as a member of the League of Nations.”
It also learns on the authority of a
Jap or a Russki that a Russo-Japanese
war would be the bloodiest in history,
far surpassing the European War.
This projected war has been discussed
for years, and has long been considered
“inevitable” and “just around the
corner.”
The interests of Japan and the Soviet
in Asia are directly opposed and in the
long run must, it seems, lead to armed
conflict. Both countries seek the lead-
ing role in the humanitarian drama (or
is it stock comedy?) “Saving China
from Herself.”
In the past Japan held down the
job at all the full-dress rehearsals and
even during the opening seasons at the
provincial theatres.
Russia was not then a member of the
League—beg pardon, was not a member
of the Actors’ Federation —so any action
against the rival would have had to be
taken single-handed.
The invincible Red Army was in the
midst of a triumphant parade-cround
season in Moscow —a season which
began shortly after the formation of the
most magnificent untried fighting force
the world has ever seen, and has con-
tinued without interruption ever since—
and could not be spared for a foreign
tour in the course of which it might
encounter hostile criticism from which
it was free at home.
Russia, therefore, ■ decided to change
her tactics. She joined the Actors
Federation.
She had been a bitter opponent of the
Federation, denouncing it on all possible
occasions. From the moment of hex
joining she became an ardent unionist,
eager to defend the rights of all her
fellow-members.
Presently an opportunity offered itself,
for an Italian Grand Opera Company
went to Abyssinia to run in opposition
to the local Goi'as and Danakils.
To this the Federation objected.
Although the Gofas and Danakils weren't
of much account as singers, still they were
members of the Actors’ Federation even
if they were let in on a cut rate. And
of all the voices raised in denunciation
of the opera company none was louder
than that of new-member and former-
opponent Russia, who urged that the
Federation should do this and that in
order to protect the interests of the
Gofas.
The Federation did this and it did
that, and in all its doings it had the
hearty and vociferous support of the
Soviet: verbal support, that is.
There was no suggestion from Moscow
that a Russian warship or even an ice-
breaker should be sent down to assist
in picketing the Mediterranean (that was
left to Britain and Australia); no sugges-
tion that portion of the Red Army male
chorus should be sent to give charity
concerts in the Addis Ababa Town Hall
in aid of the Red Cross. In fact, as far
as one can ascertain from the theatrical
papers, Russia even refrained from fol-
lowing the example of other members in
sending armies of press agents to
Abyssinia.
Everyone knows the result of the
Italian tour —how the opera company,
opening in the border towns, went from
triumph to triumph until it simply took
the country by storm. It achieved the
greatest success any foreign company
had ever scored in Abyssinia.
From Russia’s point of view the affair
was successful also, in that she was able
to prove her allegiance to the Federa-
tion (in lip service) at no cost to her-
self. And having established this allegi-
ance she will be able to ask similar
loyalty from her fellow-members when
the time comes for the final decision in
her dispute with Japan over the star
role in the Chinese tragi-comedy.
Of course the request won’t be for
help for herself. The invincible Red
Army is capable of looking after
Russia’s troubles without outside inter-
ference, and probably without leaving
Moscow. But the assistance of other
Federation members will be sought on be-
half of Chinese audiences, China being
also a member of the Federation, although
her fellow-members have more or less
forgotten the fact—particularly when
Japanese companies were putting on
military dramas in her northern pro-
vinces.
Supported by 52 fellow-members
and true, Russia would feel assured of
her efforts to secure the leading part in
the play.
Actually the only thing she could
be sure of would be a first-class
war with Japan, fought a long way
from Moscow, in which she would
have the support of any Federation
members quixotic enough or foolish
enough to become her dupes.
It matters little to us what roles
Ecuador, Siam and Liberia choose to
take in this play.
Australia, Maoriland and Britain must
keep out of the cast altogether, even re-
fusing places in the chorus or ballet.
They have a wider stage and a more
important production to think of an
Empire Peace Play, which they have
almost forgotten of late owing to the
false attractions of foreign
and extravaganzas. The Peace Pla\
would not be merely a short-season show,
but, properly managed, it could be made
a continuous institution, ever growing in
popularity and usefulness.
Ring down the curtain on foreign
melodrama, and throw open the doors
of the new Empire Peace Theatre!
F. Oswald Barnett, appointed deputy-
chairman of the committee chosen to
report on slum-elimination m Melbourne,
has made this question his hobby’J° r
the past 12 years. M. Com. ot } le-
bourne University and a Fellow ot the
Institute of Chartered Accountants, he
has spent years voluntarily compiling
data about Melbourne’s slums and m in-
teresting people in the problem. It now
■seems that his work is about to bea.
fruit'.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Cape Race must take a lot of beating
in the Australian Hurdle, for which event
he advanced considerably in favor after
the Aberfeldie Hurdle at Moonee Valley.
Admittedly the M.L. gelding would not
have won that race if Revision had not
fallen at the second-last flight of battens
and brought down Martext, But—as at
Caulfield a week before, when he ran
second to Cold Spring—Cape Race came
home with a rush. Stamina will stand
to him over the journey—“three miles
and a quarter and 20 yards.”
After leading the field for nearly a
mile Blackford surrendered control to
Revision, and passed out of the picture,
falling at the final obstacle when well
beaten. It was the first defeat of Black-
ford in a contest over hurdles, but he
performed ingloriously in the Great
Eastern Steeple at Oakbank (S.A.) on
Easter Monday, and was pulled up half
a mile from home.
Wrongly imagining that Blackford had
recovered the form that enabled him to
establish a world’s record over hurdles
in the autumn, Valley punters made the
son of Stand By equal favorite, at 9 to 2,
with Bayntun for the Aberfeldie Hurdle,
but the pair were in only half a point
better demand than Etymology (origi-
nally first choice of backers) and Cape
Race (Brilliant Son did not start). Of
the four Cape Race alone finished in the
money. Etymology almost unseated
Fullarfon in front of the grandstand,
.while Bayntun slipped and fell on the
flat when toiling behind the leaders at
the last jump.
If Revision had stood up she could
scarcely have lost, for she appeared to
have the measure of Martext (who also
crashed) and was too far in advance of
Cape Race to permit of W. R. Kemball’s
young jumper wearing her down. P. K.
Padfield trains Revision for the Gipps-
land sportsman S. Overend, who owns
a more noted jumper in Akanree.
On the middle day of the Grand
National fixture Revision ran fourth to
Cold Spring, Etymology and African in
the Keilor Hurdle. That effort did not
say a great deal for the mare, and 12 to
1 could be obtained without difficulty on
Saturday. As a judge of jumping form
Padfield has no superior. He may have
timed Revision’s preparation with a view
to the Australian Hurdle, and she will
deserve consideration if sent to the post.
Revision was bred across the Tasman,
and is by Surveyor, who was third to
Richmond Main and Artilleryman in the
Victoria Derby of 1919.
The Lindsay Gordon Steeple threw
little light on the Australian Steeple.
Philax carried the rest of the field off
their legs by drawing out for a 25-length
lead at one stage. He reached the judge
15 lengths in advance of the favorite,
Xmas Gift, while David’s Legacy, 10
lengths farther away, just pipped Neil
McKenna’s representative. Foxlike, for
third place.
Field Rise and Acfieon sustained ugly-
looking falls at the last of the stand
fences. Jumped on by the other horse,
Field Rise had an artery punctured in
the off hind fetlock; blood gushed from
the wound, and there does not seem
much chance of Field Rise competing in
the Australian Steeple on August 8.
Character may have to be reckoned with
in the big crosscountry event at Caul-
field. He fell at the last fence when
rapidly overhauling Philax.
In 1920 W. V. Manton was the most
successful horseowner in Australia, He
won both the A.J.C. Derby and Victoria
Derby with Salitros, besides landing the
Sires’ Produce Stakes at Randwick with
Glenacre, who developed into a Carring-
ton Stakes winner. Manton wagered
courageously and must have made a rich
haul at that period. Later he dropped
out of the game. The Manton colors
are in evidence once more. He cap-
tured the Cooee Handicap at Moonee
Valley with Golden Glow, a colt by Ver-
bius from Brilliance, the dam of Bon
Cretien and Charles Fox.
Manton now is domiciled in Mel-
bourne, where he conducts a Bourke-
street warehouse. Fred Williams used
to train for him at Randwick; Golden
Glow, after being for some time in the
Flemington stable of J. O’Toole, was
transferred to F. W. Hoysted’s place at
Mentone. With Keith Voitre up, Golden
Glow (14 to 1) came at the right end of
the race to vanquish Empiric (6 to 1) by
half a neck, with the 5-to-l favorite.
Lady Rays, half a head farther off.
Misty rain throughout the afternoon
marred the Valley racing and made the
track heavy. In such conditions Jeldi-
wallah covered himself with credit by
winning the Glen Orla Handicap from
end to end. With topweight (9st. 31b.)
and No. 10 barrier position in a field of
15, Jeldiwallah was allowed to go out at
8 to 1, the favorite being Sol Green’s
Alaric. Last-named did not handle the
going at all well, and had to be content
with fifth place. Jeldiwallah belongs to
H. E. Connolly, brother of Eric, the spec-
tacular punter. Originally the Dignity
gelding was owned by Harry Telford.
“Horrie” Leek, whose father owned
and trained the 1900 Caulfield Cup hero
Ingliston, turned a very profitable trick
with Tom Dodger in the Derrimut Han-
dicap. The grey son of El Cacique had
been successful on June 29 at Fleming-
ton in a division of the Marlborough
Trial, when quoted at 33 to 1. Opposi-
tion was much more powerful at the
Valley, and Tom Dodger commanded
small public support at 10 to 1. Always
at or near the front, he squeezed home
by a neck from the fast-finishing Othere
(20 to 1); with The Monarch (5 to 1) a
creditable third. Joint favorites Beau
Barton (from Tasmania) and Bullala
had every chance, but were found want-
ing.
After Britebeard (Heroic —Greytinge)
had won the Sunset Welter, for which he
had been backed off the card at the last
moment, the stipes told Bradfield, his
trainer, that Britebeard must not run
again in the metropolitan area until his
barrier manners have improved. The
colt gave a lot of trouble at the post, but
gained an advantage when the tapes rose.
This enabled him to beat Keith Voitre’s
mount, Bennington, by half a length.
Had the pair got away on even terms the
placings would have been reversed.
* * * *
The amazing price (amazing for Syd-
ney) of 7 to 1 the field offered on
the 10-furlongs handicap at Rosehill on
Wednesday. Grand Warbler-, one of three
at sevens, won, after an interesting tussle
with two 20-to-l chances, Broccoli and
Speldon; Serlodi, who was overweighted
with 9st. 71b., was fourth. Grand
Warbler is a very good-looking filly by
Grand Joy—Gobrabilla. She does little
work on the track, and had previously
done nothing remarkable with the colors
up, so the commission for her rather took
punters by surprise.
It was a great day for W. Cook, who
rode four winners, all at substantial prices
—Grand Warbler; Bull Ant (15 to 1) in
the Nursery Handicap ; Moonray (7 to 1)
in the Flying Handicap; and Pavarti
(14 to 1) in a division of the Carlingford
Mile. Moonray and Pavarti are trained
at Rosehill by Booth, who did not fancy
Pavarti, doubtless because she had time
and again faded over the last bit of a
mile. In this race she finished just as
stoutly as the two behind her —King
Gee and Dulcedo. The gallop will
sharpen up Dulcedo, and he looks a sure
early winner, especially as he is being
rather better treated by the handicappers
than in his early appearances at Sydney.
* * =l= *
It is ridiculous for Rosehill to be rac-
ing on Wednesday and Ascot on Satur-
day, but that happened in Sydney last
week. With one or two exceptions, the
cattle at Ascot were of poor class, as
witness the fact that old, Enamour won
the principal handicap. The son of
Treclare was suited by the going, which
was soft in places. It was by only half
a head that he beat Collstar, but had he
not lugged in over the last furlong he
would have won easily. Grand Warbler
was third. She met with no luck, and at
the turn her rider foolishly tried to get
through on the rails. Confab tired after
being in front for nearly a mile. Enam-
our went out at sixes ; his owner, Fred
Christey, must have had a fair win.
Maelstrom (6 to 1) triumphed over
difficulties in the Flying Handicap. Slow
away, he did not look likely until the
straight was entered ; the Marconigram
horse then put in his claim. In the end
he settled New Tip and Loyal Verde
handsomely. Roley’s Choice was fourth ;
the weight stopped him after he had
made most of the running. Bouyeo lost
his chance at barrier-rise, but Norman
Conquest went well while his condition
lasted. Sirocco disappointed.
Mala, a stable-mate of Bengal Lancer
and Golden Wings—all three are from
Maoriland —was favorite at odds on
for the first division of the Juvenile Han-
dicap. He could not make the locally-
trained Rostrim gallop ; the big son of
Rossendale scored in runaway fashion —
“three in a row” for Rostrim. His owner,
Les Hughes, intends to spell him. Being
a gelding, he is not eligible for classics,
but he is certain to make a useful
sprinter. His dam, Leitrim, is by Cool-
trim, sire of many smart horses. • Mala
will do better on a bigger track. Million
Dollars was third.
Silver Cap (5 to 4 on) met a poor lot
in the second division. Danger and
Needlewood made it easy for him, as
Danger carried Needlewood out at the
turn, and Silver Cap came through. He
is a lightly-fleshed Silvius colt who should
stay, Odilion, a Maoriland filly in Jack
King’s stable, was backed solidly, but
she must have left her trials on the track ;
she was never in the picture.
Both divisions of the Mascot Welter
Mile produced spirited betting. Atucas,
a sturdy son of Heroic, won the first
from Palady and an outsider, College
Lass ; Palady might have beaten him had
the rider got a decent run at the turn, but
he was forced wide. Dan Seaton’s Lyn-
ford (5 to 1) scored in the second divi-
sion, going past the favorite, Carmlee, at
the top of the straight,
McCarten completed a treble when he
scored on Color King (3 to 1) in the
Encourage Stakes, This son of Bicolor
is owned and trained by Allotta, who
used to ride Furious. Given time to settle
down, Color King came along with a last
run and beat Loyal Maggie and Big
Head. The favorite, Bancor, from New-
castle, was troubled by the going, and
was all at sea at the turns.
* * * *
Ruffian completed a very successful
trip to the N.S.W. Northern Rivers by
carrying off the South Grafton Cup for
E. D. Bostock, of Brisbane, running the
distance —a mile and 128 yards—in the
excellent time of Imin, 47sec. With a
smooth passage in his second race, he
would have won all three principal
events of the Grafton round —C.R.J.C.
Handicap, Grafton Cup and South Graf-
ton Cup. Unfortunately he was not
nominated for the Epsom or the Metrop.
He * * *
Recommendations of the Queensland
Royal Commission on Racing include the
reduction of the betting tax from Is. to
3d. in the paddock and from 3d. to a
penny in the Leger—-bookmakers to pay
and not punters ; also a ban on the publi-
cation of ante-post odds, the appoint-
ment of a tribunal to deal with appeals
against the allotment of racing dates, and
the interdicting of night coursing, tin-hare
racing and betting on night trotting. The
commission reported against the licensing
of betting shops, saying that its inquiries
in S.A. had “convinced” it that “the sys-
tem” had “failed to achieve the objects
for which it was established there.” A
South Australian commission, for its
part, has reported against State lotteries
on the ground that they have failed to
achieve the objects for which they were
established in Queensland.
“Bris.”: Queensland Racing Commis-
sion estimates, from police reports, that,
of the total adult population of Brisbane,
26 per cent are “habitual bettors.” Add
those who have a flutter occasionally and
the non-bettors must be a lonely minority.
No wonder the s.p. business is flourish-
ing! Near-by Ipswich is reported to be
comparatively virtuous with only 4 per
cent, of habitual bettors —which seems
unlikely.
Footbrawl
The see-saw process among the top
teams in Melbourne football continues.
On Saturday Melbourne followed up its
victory over Richmond by defeating
South, 22.16 to 14.12, after an extraor-
dinary last quarter in which the Redlegs
kicked 10 goals 4 behinds to one point;
for the first three-quarters South had
held the advantage. Collingwood (14.18)
had an easy win over Hawthorn (6.12)
and stepped up into top place once more,
while Richmond, by defeating St. Kilda
by 18.6 to 14.12, retained its position of
third on the list.
Carlton (18.15) beat Fitzroy (14.11), but
will have to be content with its present
position of first of the also-rans, as Mel-
bourne has a clear two-wins lead. Other
results were: Essendon (10.10) beat
North (6.14) and Footscray (14.9) de-
feated Geelong (10.22).
• ~ * * * *
Playing together to better effect a
North Broken Hill team beat Metropolis
in an Australian-rules game in Sydney,
17.12 to 14.13.
* * * *
Beginning the day in the lead with
Randwick, Western Suburbs slipped badly
in the principal Rugby Union match,
finishing 19 points behind East —6-25.
East made the better use of its oppor-
tunities, and West’s tackling was poor.
Randwick threw the ball about, and its
inside backs—-Richards, five-eighth this
time, particularly—cut through Gordon
to put on nine tries to one, 40-6. Best
match of the day was that between
Manly and North. Play was hard and
fast: each team scored four tries—Kela-
her, the play going to his wing for
almost the first time this season, getting
two for Manly. But better shooting for
goal gave North a 19-17 win. Univer-
sity was rather lucky to beat Parramatta,
22-20, though the Students put on four
tries to three. St. George still sucks its
wooden spoon; it went down to Drum-
moyne, 8-16.
Positions with five rounds still to be
played: Randwick 19, Uni. 18, West and
Drummoyne 17, North 16, East 14.
* * * *
“Taihoa”: The biggest burst-up since
the Pink Terraces went skyward fell
upon the M.L. Rugby Union when the
powerful Arawa tribe sent that body an
ultimatum requesting that not only
should no Maori individuals or teams
be selected to play against' the Spring-
boks, but that none should be asked to
meet the tourists in any capacity. Bad
blood was engendered when the 1921
’Boks met the Maoris, and feeling was
increased when Maori players or those
of Maori blood were left out of the All-
Blacks for South Africa in 1928. The
Maoris in general are backing the
Arawas.
* * * *
“Tripper”: Though the alleged hard-
ships of the tour do not seem to have
affected their form and probably helped
them to get a good price for their chances
in the Tests, the English Leaguers have
protested to the Australian League
against the excessive travelling, and ask
that there will be less of it on future
tours. Long journeys on the eve of a
Test are particularly deprecated.
(Continued an next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
The first day’s play in the Davis Cup
challenge round was very disappointing
to Australians. Crawford, after taking
the first set from Austin, 6-4, fell away
hopelessly to be beaten in the next three,
6-3, 6-1, 6-1. Against Perry, Quist
dropped the first set 6-1, took the second
6-4, and ran to a 5-1 lead in the third.
Then Perry’s class and experience told.
The Englishman won the next six games
for the set and finished it in the fourth,
6-2.
(Continued on next page.)
“Whoopee”: The friendly quiet of the
Olympic atmosphere has been shattered
by the suspension of Eleanor Holm, who
won the 100 metres backstroke for the
U.S.A. at Los Angeles. The management
alleges that the lady hit the high spots
on the boat coming over. She bitterly
denies any special playing-up, and says
a dozen others of the team were as bad
or worse.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Mornington Welter: Rondeletia;
next, Bite Again.
Malakoff Stakes: Gay Circle;
next, Dark Sky.
Australian Hurdle: Cape Race;
next, Cold Spring.
Moondah Plate: Heros; next',
Spin if ex.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Park Stakes: Lynford; next,
Crunatus.
Flying Handicap: Lavage ; next,
Golden Wings.
Canterbury Handicap: Foudroy-
ant; next, Grand Warbler.
Highweight Handicap: Orient
Orb; next, Concilio.
Campsie Handicap: Brushwood ;
next, Sarsign.


M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
In reply to the protest of Lane,
M.H.R., against the unloading of colored
bruisers on a Commonwealth which is
supposed to have a White Australia
policy, Paterson, the Minister for the
Interior, pleaded that the coons were ad-
mitted for only “limited periods.” It
would be interesting to know what the
limit is. Leo Kelly, for example, has
been in Australia for just on 12 months,
and evidently he plans to stay a lot
longer ; anyway he proposes to have an-
other mill with Rosenbloom (who,
though far from fit, easily outpointed the
negro) and to meet anyone else who may
come along. And Jones arrived before
Kelly. By setting these examples of
contempt for the White Australia
policy, the Government is courting
evasions of it on a larger and much more
dangerous scale.
* * * *
Sharkey is the latest ageing pug to be
matched with Louis. He is old enough
to have been beaten by Dempsey, who
beat Willard, who beat Johnson, who
beat Jeffries, who beat Corbett, who
beat Sullivan, who beat Goss, who
fought Jem Mace. Another of Sharkey’s
conquerors was Camera, whom Louis
knocked over in a few rounds.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”; Fierce controversy rages
in Melbourne over the increase in foul
football. Umpires are blamed, but this
is hardly Just. When an umpire reports
a player—all he can do under Australian
Rules—he has to face a barrage of cross-
examination by delegates on the tribunal
inquiring into the charge. Witnesses
almost invariably give evidence contra-
dicting his, and as often as not a ver-
dict of not guilty is recorded. And the
umpire has incurred a certain amount of
enmity which may tell against him sub-
sequently in his job.
The Englishmen ended their tour by
beating Lithgow (N.S.W.), 36-14. The
tourists played 17 games and lost three.
They scored 401 points to 204—in the
Tests 32 to 38—and notched 79 tries 82
goals to 38 tries 45 goals. In the Tests
again their six tries and seven goals were
topped by Australia’s six tries and 10
goals. The Englishmen drew £32,498, of
which they take 60 per cent.
“Hired Man”: As expected, the depart-*-
ing English League footballers have
thrown out feelers to Australian players
suggesting engagements with North of
England professional clubs. McKinnon
has been approached. He is not having
any. Others may not prove so sensible.
In addition to McKinnon, Reardon,
the Queensland centre, has been listening
to the voice of a charmer from Hudders-
field. Crippen is also on the list.
Something new cropped up when it got
out that Belshaw, the English back, had
been asked to return to Queensland. The
story is denied by the Bananalanders,
who point out ruefully that they are too
stiff to pay the price anyway. Belshaw
plays with Liverpool Stanley, a club
with a curious history. It began as
Wigan Highfield, but was taken to
London as London Highfield by the tin-
hare interests when an attempt was made
to start the League game in the great
Union and Soccer centre. Liverpool,
which has spurned the League ever since
its inception, is now its temporary host,
though here again Union and Soccer rule
the roost.
* * * *
“Boot”: Summoned to appear before
the League for his fight with Stehr in the
last Test at Sydney, Arkwright ignored
the summons. At last he was prevailed
on to toe the line, and was suspended
from play until July 31, a suspension
which is supposed to hold good in M.L.
Stehr stands down lor three grade
matches.
* * * *
Cash Amateur”: Victoria persists in
its advocacy of an Australian Rugby
Union, and has returned to the charge
with a list of recommendations which the
N.S.W. body is to consider. The Aus-
tralian Union is bound to come, and the
forthright Victorians deserve every sup-
port in their fight.
.** * *
Victoria sent what was practically a
second fifteen to Adelaide to tackle the
local Rugby Union cracks, and emerged
victorious by 11 to 9, the home side put-
ting up a stiff resistance. A wet ground
and greasy ball slowed up the game, but
the Victorian backs, though their for-
wards were bested in the scrums, made
good use of the ball from the lineouts
and the loose.
* * * *
The N.S.W.R.U. has drawn up a pro-
posed itinerary for the All-Blacks’ tour in
1938. The opening match will be against
Victoria in Melbourne on May 15, fol-
lowed by a N.S.W. country match four
days later. Then comes a match with
Ma in Sydney on May 22, and after a
Queensland country match a game with
Queensland at Brisbane. Then the three
Tests in a row. At Brisbane on June 5,
and at Sydney on June 12 and 19.
* ■ * - * *
“Ellis Park”: Though the South Afri-
cans will shortly select their team for
Australia, nothing has yet been settled
about their games in this country. There
are to be eight matches in Victoria,
N.S.W. and Queensland, and if the tour-
ists are willing extra games in Perth and
Adelaide may be squeezed in. So far
even the number of Tests here and in
MX. is not known, though the ’Boks
have asked that fixtures of the kind be
cut to bedrock,
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: N.S.W. Soccer players
are largely Scottish or of Scottish breed.
The N.S.W. authorities are putting
them to a hard test in connec-
tion with the Soccer tourney in Ade-
laide in September, The South
Australians have announced that they
cannot pay the full expenses of visiting
teams, and have asked the various State
bodies if they or the players can find
some of the funds needed. After a
stunned silence the State bodies have
promised to see what they can do. N. S.
Wales is passing the buck to its clubs
and asking them to guarantee the fare of
any member who may be chosen.
“Outside Right”; All being well, Syd-
ney may see two professional Soccer
“It was a Wunnerfulfight, list ners. Stand by for about 'arf 'n our, an"
I'll ask me opponent t' say a few Words."
sides from Britain during the 1938 spree,
one from England and t’other from Scot-
land. Maoriland talks about inviting an
amateur team to play there next season.
If this tour comes off an attempt will be
made to bring the visitors this side the
Tasman before they go home.
Ins and Outs
The Marylebone Club has published
the names of seven players for Australia.
Allen is captain, and another Middlesex
man, Robins, is the other amateur. Ham-
mond, Leyland and Verity picked them-
selves : the others are Fishlock and
Hardstaff. Robins is a googly of
class and an effective hitting bats-
man. He played in two Tests in
England, but was not persevered with,
though he averaged 35 with the bat and
took 10 wickets. Fishlock is a left-
hander who only came permanently into
the Surrey team last season. He heads
the batting averages and is a champion
outfield. Sutcliffe’s omission will cause
no surprise, for his habit of getting the
ball on the edge of the bat early in the
innings has been increasing with the
years. Duckworth is sure to be first
’keeper, and will be chosen with the
balance of the side after the Test v. India
at Manchester now raging. Lancashire’s
secretary, R. Howard, has been invited
to manage.
“Easingwold”: Yorkshire folk have
long memories. Recently the Stamford
Bridge C.C. decided on a new cap badge.
This took the form of crossed battle-
axes with the date 1066. How many of
The Bulletin’s cricket experts can rattle
off the match on that occasion, the rival
captains and the result?
“Aunt Sally”: lam pained to note that
Deputy-Premier Mick Bruxner is backing
the cuckoo proposal that an Empire
cricket team drawn from England,
Africa, India, West Indies and M.L. be
invited for the N.S.W. 150th anniversary
corroboree. It seems invidious to omit
the Falkland Islands, Papua, Cocos and
Willis and Nauru islands, but as the
scheme has no hope of getting through
that doesn’t matter. I sorrow for Mick.
At one time he gave evidence of solid
good sense, but politics seem to have
w'hite-anted him.
* * =i= -! :
“Aigburth”: Monumental ignorance of
the laws of the game is sometimes ex-
hibited by the most eminent cricketers.
Before the first match between England
and India at Lord’s the captains of the
teams noticed that the groundsmen were
covering the soaked wicket with blankets
and then running the heavy roller over
it to get some of the water out. They
protested, and it was not until umpire
Dolphin, here with Douglas’s 1920-21
team as a ’keeper, pointed out that the
Marylebone C.C. had added a ruling to
Law 22 the previous season making the
new idea legal that they drew in their
horns. *
* * * :J:
“Tenth Slip”; The economy craze
recently moved certain of the N.S.W.
cricket executive to attempt the abolition
of the municipal and shire competitions,
but the motion was deservedly hurled
out by the monthly meeting of the C.A.
These competitions rank below the third
grade, and from them come most of the
young recruits to grade cricket. Junior
cricket, so called, but with little of the
junior aspect about it, has a huge follow-
ing in Sydney, and it is rare for its
promising players to leave for the grade
teams. All the same the C.A. is £6385
down on the past seven years, and is los-
ing a steady £lOOO a year, although
international cricket has brought it in
£26,000 in the same time,
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Gents, v. Players at
Lord s was a washout. On rain-ruined
wickets the bowlers had it all their own
way. The Gents, made 130 and 8 for
195 ; the Players* 194 and 5 for 63. Gent.
Stephenson, of Essex, bowling fast-
medium, took 9 for 46 in the Players’
first bang.
* * * *
“Hotham”; The sport-broadcasting
question is troubling the cricket waters
again. Victoria had decided to permit
only a partial broadcast of cricket
matches instead of the alleged ball-to-ball
system of the other States. Now it has
decided to refer the whole question to the
Board of Control meeting in Adelaide on
September 10. The Board will be asked
to decide on the question of whether or
not the Test and Sheffield matches are
to go on the air in detail or in sub-
edited fragments.
'l'
“Pickets”: Life membership of the
N.S.W.C.A. has long been confined to
delegates to association meetings, players
being left out. This has been remedied,
and in future players who have figured
in five Tests for Australia are to be
eligible for life membership, provided
they are resident in N.S.W. This last
proviso will cut out Bradman and Brown.
In the past the C.A. has granted honor-
ary membership to players who have
taken part in two Test series.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: At the next Board of
Control meeting in Adelaide on Sep-
tember 10, Sheffield Shield affairs will
also be discussed and N.S.W. will for-
mally move for the adoption of the
amended l.b.w. law. As the amendment
will hold good for the Test matches it
is hardly likely that any of the other
States will refuse to fall into line.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Peter Anderson, who is
just retiring from the headmastership of
Scotch College, Perth, has been a modest
violet blushing unseen for many years.
Forty-three years ago he won the
amateur golf championship of Britain,
and no one outside the circle of his inti-
mates in this country had heard of it.
The obscurity in which he has lurked
contrasts strangely with the fierce light
thrown by the ballyhoo press on golf
champions nowadays. One Sydney
paper, however, did its best to make up
for it ah by announcing that it was the
“world’s” championship Peter had won.
It happened at Prestwick, and Laidley,
twice winner of the title himself, was
beaten by a hole in the final.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: Jim Ferrier has been play-
ing a few rounds at Los Angeles. He
says that the thing which has struck him
—figuratively, of course—more than any-
thing else in the U.S.A. is the larger and
lighter ball, which suits a short game to
perfection.
* * * *
Harvey, an 18-year-old N.S.W. club
boy, won the N.S.W. caddies’ champion-
ship with 67—5 under par for the 36 holes.
This beats the course record, though
several times the forward tees were used.
The youngster is a seven-stoner, only
about as high as his own driver, but
wallops a long ball and approaches and
putts in championship fashion.
“Sandringham”: The Australian golf
championships begin at Metropolitan
course, Melbourne,
with a stroke handi-
cap for all comers on
September 19 and last
until October 2. The
amateur foursomes of
36 holes stroke will be
played on September
21, and after the inter-
state match between
amateur teams Septem-
ber 24, 25 and 26 will
see the tussle for the
open title. This is to be
over four rounds of
stroke, only the leading
60 players at the end
of the second round
being eligible for the
other two. The ama-
teur cham p i o nship
starts on September 28
and is over 36 holes of
match play, ending on
October 1. The first
sixteen amateurs in the
open will play off in
match play. The professionals contest
their championship over 36 holes of
match from September 28 to October 2,
the first 16 pros, in the open to play
off. Entrants must have a handicap of
not more than two strokes from standard
scratch score and eight strokes from par.
Entries close August 24 at Metropolitan.
Racquet and Bawl
The news that Australia had beaten
Germany in the Davis Cup zone final
came as a blessed relief. Quist, playing
with a sprained ankle after the first set,
was beaten by Von Cramm 4-6, 6-4, 4-6,
6-4, 11-9, after Henkel had retired on
losing two sets to Crawford. Gloom began
with the news that Quist had to make
room for McGrath in the doubles, but
lifted a bit when that lad helped Craw-
ford to a sound win from Von Cramm
and Henkel —6-4, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. Then
when McGrath downed Henkel 6-3, 5-7,
6-4, 6-4 and made the tie safe for Aus-
tralia tails were mastheaded. Crawford
was to have met Von Cramm in the
second singles, but Denker took the
star’s place, to be beaten in three straight
sets by the Australian.
H; * #
“Rev. Knucklebone”: When Perry was
given a job with a firm of tennis supplies
dealers in Melbourne it was announced
that the champion would spend most of
the year in Australia coaching the local
youth to emulate him. His first visit was
a hurried scamper through the States,
after which he bolted for Hollywood and
Beauty. This year, while he will visit
this country, it will be only as part of
a world tour after the American cham-
pionships embracing Honolulu, M.L., the
Netherlands Indies, Japan and China
before going home to Britain. The Aus-
tralian residence idea seems to have
washed out.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 70 of 1936.
TO WILLIAM HENRY JAMES formerly of
Cloncurry in the State of Queensland
Painter.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Townsville by ELIZA
JAMES your wife in which she claims a dis-
solution of her marriage with you and by her
petition filed in the said Court she alleges
that you deserted her and such desertion has
continued for five years and upwards AND
IT HAS BEEN ORDERED that service of the
writ and petition on you be effected by post-
ing copies thereof in the Registry of the said
Court and by the insertion of this advertise-
ment twice each in the Sydney Bulletin and
in a newspaper published at Lismore in the
State of New South Wales. If you desire to
defend this action you must within thirty days
from the date of the last act done in pursuance
of the said order enter an appearance at the
Registry of the said Court. AND in default
of such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.
DATED at Townsville this Fourteenth day
of July, 1936.
W. M. DOYLE,
Acting-Registrar.
WILSON, RYAN & GROSE, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff, Denham Street, Townsville.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO FRANCIS POPE McGINLEY formerly
of Toowoomba in the State of Queensland
but whose present whereabouts are un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that_ an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the said State
and numbered 328 of 1936 by SARAH
PORTER McGINLEY your wife in which she
claims a DISSOLUTION OF HER
MARRIAGE with you and by her Petition
filed herein she alleges that on the Sixth day
of July 1931 you deserted her without cause
and such desertion has been continuous up to
the present time and it has been ordered that
service of the Writ of Summons and Petition
on you by personal service of a copy of the
Writ and an Office copy of the Petition on
ERNEST DUDLEY McGINLEY Solicitor of
National Bank Chambers Queen Street Bris-
bane aforesaid and by the publication once in
the Brisbane “Courier-Mail” once in the
"Telegraph” once in the Toowoomba
“Chronicle” and once in the Sydney Bulletin
of this advertisement and by affixing on the
Notice Board in the Registry of the said court
a copy of the Writ and an Office copy of the
Petition shall be deemed to be good and suffi-
cient service of the Writ and Petition. If you
desire to defend this action you must within
thirty-seven days after the doing of the last act
done pursuant to this Order enter an appear-
ance in the said Registry and in default of
such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.
DATED this Seventeenth day of July, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
LEONARD POWER & POWER, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff, Ascot Chambers, Queen
Street, Brisbane.
The World’s Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company
Incorporated in 1923, N.Z. PER-
PETUAL FORESTS, LTD., has
planted over 163,000 acres with over
100,000,000 trees, and built 230 miles of
roads.
The Bondholders’ realisation company
(N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS.
•LIMITED) is now established, and
preparations for realisation are proceeding.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
Head Office for Australia:
KEMBLA BUILDING, 58 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies
at London, Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hong Kong.
No Connection with any other Forestry Company
■
S* I
>■ * * \
1
w
mm
Mi
•S^SSW?
m&imi
■m
m
mmm
1
m
r;
•sm
mm
m
4S«
Mm
mm
m
wzm
Fine Car Style to match
Fine Car Performance
FORD V-8 has a combination of fine
car qualities that place it in a class of
its own. Compare the V-8 with cars selling
at three and four times its price and you
will realise the outstanding value it offers.
The exclusive V-8 engine gives smooth,
thrilling power to go —anywhere. Super
Safety mechanical brakes supply effortless
power to stop —with certainty. Safety is
built into the V-8 with All-steel closed
bodies and Safety Glass all round. Comfort
is exceptional because of Centre-poise riding
combined with long flexible springs, larger
shock absorbers and deep, restful seat
cushions. Here indeed is the thoroughly
modern car, built for years of economical,
dependable motoring. Test it yourself—the
Ford dealer near you will gladly demonstrate.
Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
FORD-PHILCO CAR RADIO
Designed for the Ford V-8 —a fine radio for a fine
car. Special Superheterodyne circuit with high
quality performance. Compact and neat, the set
fits snugly under instrument panel. Speaker
mounted out of sight above windscreen gives
"ear-line” reception. Ford-Philco radio is excep-
tionally selective and has deep, mellow tone.
See your Ford dealer for further particulars.
FOR 1936
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F83.24V
“Milton”; With a bit of luck Brisbane
will entertain a couple of N.S.W.
tennis teams in August: a hardcourt band
at Toowoomba and a grassy mob in
Brisbane. There is a catch about this
last lot, however. The N.S.W. players
invited have been told they must pay
their own expenses.
Miscellaneous
“Plug Ugly”; Don’t blame footballers
for all the rough stuff. I see that no less
a silvertail than Captain Tyrell-Martin,
England’s polo captain, has been hung
on the peg for “conduct prejudicial to
the game.” It appears he took a swipe
at another player with a polo stick.
This is an ugly weapon and close to
what the Johns call “lethal” when they
lumber a bloke for bottling. In foot-
ball we use nothing worse than the boot
or perhaps a fist with a good big ring on
it.
* * JK !!=
“Ride Off”; A team of polo players
from the Philippines cast up in Sydney,
unheralded, for a series of games.
They are Captains James, Lockhart and
Kenny, of the U.S.A. Army, and Mr.
Zobel, a sugar producer in the islands.
The team brought no ponies, hoping to
get these here. As they intend to take
back with them at least' 50 mounts, they
should be received with open arms by
Australian polo pony breeders and
makers.
* * * *
“Foul Fly”: We have heard so many
reports of baseball visits from the U.S.A.
which have washed out that only faint
interest is being taken in the announce-
ment that two professional Yankee teams
may come over to Sydney for the 1938
whoopee. Government financial aid is,
of course, being sought, while a special
drive for funds will be made. If more
of these alien sports propose to roost
on our doorstep in 1938 the puzzle will
be where to fit them in. The Nullarbor
Plain would seem the most likely spot
at present, and that cannot be styled an
enclosed ground such as is necessary to
collect that most vital aspect of all sport
—the spondulicks.
“Third Base”; Westralia has applied
for admission to the inter-State baseball
series for the Claxton shield, but will
have to wait till next year, when the
tourney will be held in Adelaide. The
Westerners have asked for a N.S.W. side
in Perth at the end of this season, and
have offered 50 per cent, of the gate.
Ma has written asking for a definite idea
of how much the 50 per cent, will amount
to. It would be a long walk home from
Perth.
:j: * * *
“Glissade”: Ski-ing history will be made
in Maoriland in August when the first
Australian team meets the All-Blacks at
Mt. Ruapehu in Tongariro National Park.
This will be the first time two Dominions
have clashed in a contest of the kind
and the first held south of the Line. The
tourney will last four days from August
30. The team leaves Sydney on August
13 and will pick up some tips at the
M.L. championships held at the same
place.
* * * *
“Long Rest”; The British Billiards
Association has changed the conditions of
the Empire amateur championship.
Hitherto this had to be played for in
the country of the holder. Now Britain
and the Dominions interested will take
it in turn, South Africa being the stamp-
ing ground this year and Australia in
1938. India will be the host in 1940, and
in 1942 the title will be played for again
in Britain. India was to have had the
1938 fixture, but it waived its right in
favor of Australia and the 150th anni-
versary corroboree.
* * *
“Blue Chalk”; Australia’s billiard con-
trollers have decided to send a player
to the world’s amateur championship,
which starts at Jo’burg on November 16.
The Australian championship will be
played for in Adelaide in October, and
the winner will be invited to board a
ship for the Union at once. An inter-
State fund for expenses has been opened ;
each State has been allotted a quota.
It was in South Africa some years ago
that Hayes, of N.S.W., won the title, the
first Australian to do so. He may again
make the trip.


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUCH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
HEENZO,
mmmm
m*
m
M
■ '
mm
m
mm
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
m
M is!®!
.
» 6 M
■I
Mis
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children and adults, and is far better than the usual made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZCh Add the Heenzo to
sweetened water, according to the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost up to £l.
Heenzo does NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
safety to the youngest baby. ' You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST


df
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
BRANDAIiERrS
m
&
0"
PENS
a
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUEB it CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Why Not a Useful Craze?
“A.D.”: Humans are prone to crazes.
And it’s not always the female of the
species who falls a victim, with her
painted toenails and tattooed lips. Not
by any means.
I have just seen an English weekly in
which the front page is devoted to a
serious and solemn explanation of why
Major Douglas was in no way account-
able for the fiasco in Alberta. Doug-
las and his U.S.A. counterparts are seem-
ingly still prophets in the eyes of a
number of people. And here we have
one of the most serious crazes of recent
times.
Douglas’s ideas were not plants (or
weeds) that sprang to light during the de-
pression. The Major’s A + B theorem
is of older nurturing than that, being
conceived, apparently, during the after-
math of the Great War. Bringing the
promise of “social credit,” his books
(they sold at a stiff price, too) often
found themselves on the shelves of
“new thought” and communistic book-
shops. The Douglas Credit crank of this
era was invariably a crank of his own
free will, and his numbers were not great.
It was the depression that gave the world
its biggest “social credit” craze.
Wishes are often fathers to thoughts;
and so the promise of “lands of eco-
nomic freedom—a veritable paradise,
though only a material one,” made
wide appeal to unfortunate people who
had lost businesses, jobs and investments
through the circumstances of 1930-33.
Many such people, probably for the first
time in their lives, became “currency
conscious” ; children of a boom age—
an age of invention and “prosperity” to
an extraordinary degree—they were un-
able to distinguish between normal and
abnormal, or between healthy and un-
healthy conditions.
One of the unfortunate features of
the trade cycles with which the world
should now be familiar is that both the
ups and downs in the scale take years
to level out. Fat years and lean years—
it has always been nature’s way. When
lean times arrive, those unprepared gen-
erally suffer severely. Some acknow-
ledge their unpreparedness or past pro-
digality ; others are ready to kick at
anybody but that deceitful fellow “Good
Times.”
And so the Douglas Credit craze —the
lure of “a veritable paradise, though
only a material one.” Shopgirls dream
of earls and duchesses, and some of
those who have been badly treated by
depression dream of Douglas Credit
“prosperity,”
Dreams, without a doubt. There is
nothing easy in nature, and the glamor
of earls and Courts is a delusion. Easy
money for all is also a fake. No coun-
try in the world, democratic or other-
wise, is perfectly administered ; no “sys-
tem,” financial, industrial or otherwise,
runs without hitches. We can all see,
even in small things, where we could be
better off; but those improvements are
not to be achieved by a stroke of the
pen, mathematical calculations or the
working of a printing-press. Make
money “cheap” and it becomes very
cheap—and living chaotic.
When I see the time and energy wasted
on crazes like Douglas Credit, I often
wonder why we can’t have a useful
craze for a change —a craze tor sound
Government finance, for fair taxation,
greater freedom for enterprise, and the
elimination of overgovernment. _ Such
a craze would have the unforgivable
fault of being practical and perhaps dif-
ficult, and therefore unpalatable.
The person who is over-assessed by
the income tax department in N. S.
Wales is nevertheless obliged to pay up
pending investigation of an appeal. If
he doesn’t he is fined for late payment.
The inequity of this bureaucratic power
is emphasised in the case of companies,
where the overcharge might be £lO,OOO
or more. Often a co. relies on a bank
overdraft, which means that interest has
to be paid on the amount of the over-
charge until the department finds it con-
venient to rectify the error. There is an
obvious answer to any defence put up
in favor of the practice, and it is that
the taxpayer should be allowed bank
interest on overcharges which are not
his own error.
* * * *
Though the banking position in Vic-
toria, as mentioned here last week, has
eased somewhat since the lifting of in-
terest rates in April, the situation
throughout the Commonwealth is not so
definite. During the last quarter (to June
30), though there was a lift of £3,100,000
in fixed deposits, all deposits show a
“ Interestin' souvenir that. It's the first pound I Won on a horse — it's cost
me about a thousand up to now!"
shrinkage of £1,900,000. Advances, de-
spite credit curtailment, have risen
£3,900,000 in the same time. If banks
were feeling the pinch three months ago
they must be noticing it more now. Of
course, the Bank of N. S. Wales took
the initiative in raising its deposit rates
partly to combat the threat of competi-
tive Government borrowing on Treasury
bills. With no such threat on the horizon
at the moment, the present stretching of
resources may perhaps be regarded with
more equanimity.
The investor (or speculator) in ordinary
shares at the moment should look care-
fully into several important develop-
ments. They are (1) the imminence of
increased interest rates and tighter
money, as indicated by latest banking
statistics and new-loan details; (2) the
fact that, though company earnings gen-
erally should in 1935-36 show improve-
ment over those of 1934-35, there is not
so much encouragement for anticipating
improvement at the same rate in 1936-
37 ; and (3) the fact that trade troubles
may affect our primary production
revenue to a substantial degree. It is obvi-
ous to those experienced in investments
that present 3-4 p.c. returns on shares
are a result of anticipated further benefits
by way of profit distributions or accu-
mulations. If those benefits are not to
materialise, no ordinary share is worth
buying on a 3 p.c. basis.
General buoyancy in a sharemarket is
often treacherous. Ordinary shares must
be bought on their merits—with due re-
gard to present and probable earning
power, the yield obtainable on ordinary
shares in other equally sound and enter-
prising concerns, and the yield to be got
on fixed-interest securities. Ordinary
shares bought in keeping with the
foregoing principles are among the
best investments offering in the Com-
monwealth, subject to Government in-
terference by way of taxation or other-
wise. But there will be setbacks in the
market, and at present there is an indi-
cation that many stocks are being
“wished” to high levels.
* * * *
In the weakening sharemarket towards
the end of last week, David Jones ords.
and Mauri Bros, ords., both mentioned
here lately, were strong. At 48s. 3d,
on Friday DJs. touched a record. In
addition to the extension of activities
to Newcastle and Cessnock, and the fact
that trading recently has been very active,
a rumor (unconfirmed) is current that a
new freehold has been bought in Syd-
ney. Mauri Bros, is a good stock that
was overlooked for a long while. It
has never been higher than last week’s
625.
:J: % *
Mf. Lyell (Tas.) is a concern the de-
velopments in regard to which have been
given space here for some time. The
shares in post-war days have never been
above 465. nor below 15s. They touched
a six years’ record last week with sales
in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide at
275. 9d. A 5 p.c. div. is assured, and
earnings for the term closing on Sept.
30 should be over 10 p.c. on capital.
Electrolytic copper has averaged more
than £5O (Aust.) per ton during the term
to date. On an output of 14,000 tons a
vear, with electrolytic at the present price.
there should be better than £lOO,OOO net
profit from mining. Fertiliser, etc., in-
vestments, which turned in £57,000 last
year, will most likely be up this term.
There is £1,550,000 of paid capital, all
in ords.
N. S. Wales mortgage interest rates,
which during April and May showed a
runaway tendency to increase (following
the lifting of bank rates), in June ex-
hibited a swing towards cheap borrowing
again. Of the business registered, 47 p.c.
was done last month at rates of 4{- p.c.
or under, as against 39, 39 and 50 p.c.
in the three preceding months.
* * * *
Australian Glass ords. slipped back
sharply to 91s. last week, a drop of
6s. G. J. Coles ords. also dipped
heavily, to 775. 9d. at one stage. There
has been considerable speculation
in both cases. B. H. Prop., which gives
a better immediate yield than either of
these stocks, and which is at present
developing additional sources of income,
is much better held.
H= * * *
The lift in Pitt, Son and Badgery’s
div. —an interim at rate of 1\ p.c. and
final at 12£ p.c.—brought if to 10 p.c.
for the year ended June 30. For six
years from 1929 the handout was steady
at p.c. Prior to that there had been
an unbroken line of 10 p.c. distributions,
sweetened with £140,000 of bonus scrip,
going back to 1921. It is one of the
soundest pastoral stocks in the Common-
wealth. In 1935 20 p.c. of wool com-
missions was returned to clients, other-
wise profits would have been much
higher,
* * * *
Peters Delicacy (N.S.W.) contrib.
shares went to 275. on the strength of
rumors last week—a rise of over 11s. in
nine days. When the co.’s secretary, in
answer to a Stock Exchange inquiry,
stated that the calling of capital or the
issue of bonus scrip wasn’t being con-
sidered, there was a flop in the price to
21s. So much for rumors. A large
number of shares changed hands.
* * * *
Wiluna, Australia’s biggest-profit-earn-
ing goldmine (next to Lake View and
Star it is the largest producer), has
struck a patch of ore temporarily lower
in grade than usual, but by stepping up
the mill throughput (47,850 tons in June,
a record) the month’s gold recovery was
lifted to 10,0460 z., a figure not often
exceeded in the past. The smelting plant
is expected to be operating by the end
of August', to the benefit of extraction
and costs —the latter, including 3s. 9d.
for development, are at present only
20s. lid. a ton.
* * * *
Portion of the new N. S. Wales com-
pany law is to be brought into operation
shortly, the share-hawking prohibitions
being considered particularly urgent. The
sooner go-getters are curbed the better.
There is great need for a new Companies
Act in Victoria as well, and the Dunstan
Government is trying to supply it.
* ' * * *
North Kalgurli, with profits £11,314
greater at £57,327 (stg.), pays Is. 3d. a
share (62| p.c.) for the year, the same
as in 1934. The sharemarket, bucked by
developments which still promise good
things for the future, paid up to 245. for
the 2s. shares in March. There were
sales last week at 19s. 6d., at which price
the yield is about 6.4 p.c.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch ordinaries were
taken to a higher figure last week, yield-
ing 4.7 p.c. at 51s. There is a record of
steady earning power behind this con-
cern, combined with a probability of sub-
stantial inner reserves.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s working profit
for June (£47,322) was the best for some
time, mainly by reason of better returns.
North Kalgurli’s throughput for June
reached 10,479 tons, up 3500 tons in two
months. Average values dropped a bit,
but shareholders should now be handed
the profit in the mine at a quicker rate.
* * * *
The Government Statist’s verdict on
the last S.A. vintage is something over
12 million gallons of wine, a slight de-
crease on the previous season, but a bit
above the average. The annual figures
are curiously steady. Every year S.A.
makes from 10 to 12 million gallons;
uses rather less than half of them for
distillation; drinks a million or so at
home; sells under two million all about
Australia, and sends from two to three
overseas.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Cox Bros. ords. were sought at 605., with
few sellers offering. This has been one of
the most remarkable business recoveries of
recent years. The price is speculative, but the
market seems to know something.
Gordon and Gotch ords. changed hands in
small parcels at 51s.
Central Nell Gwynne, after falling to 305.,
recovered to 335. on Tuesday, but dropped
again to 30s. by Thursday.
Mammoth (Centralia) shares sold to 4s. 3d.,
and then fell to 3s. 5d., recovering to 3s. 9d.
Lancefield declared another shilling div.,
payable Sept. 19. It will call for £50,000. A
similar distribution (the first) was made last
February.
Yarra Falls shares remained firm at
40s. 9d.
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
lifted its div. from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c.
Olympic Tyre shares were strong at 375.
Holeproof ords. were much firmer at 255.
Beau Monde and Prestige were also in
demand at higher figures.
Upper Sepik announced another dis-
appointment —the abandonment of an option
over Theobald and Hyde’s property on the
Watut.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Things to Come”
If it be true that all great literature is
propaganda, H. G. Wells’s novel The
Shape of Things to Come fulfils at least
that part of the specification of greatness.
It is propaganda to prove war both hor-
rible and ridiculous; to prove that per-
sistence in war will destroy civilisation,
and that civilisation can only be saved
and sane and ordered progress assured
to mankind if government is vested in ah
oligarchy of scientists.
The film with the shortened title now
being screened at Sydney Lyceum
preaches this sermon more powerfully
than the printed word could ever hope
to do. Commencing with an air raid-
one of the most striking representations
of mass panic ever put on the screen—
there is a brief sojourn in a world of
ruins, ruled by rival brigand chiefs. The
coming lordship of the men of science
is shadowed by the arrival in art aero-
plane of John Cabal (Raymond Massey).
Made prisoner by “The Bo$s” of the
locality (Ralph Richardson), he is soon
rescued, a fleet of gigantic monoplanes
Raymond Massey as John Cabal in
“Things to Come” at Sydney Lyceum.
armed with gas bombs that merely in-
duce deep sleep, overcoming all resis-
tance.
Time moves on another two-thirds of
a century. Cabal’s grandson Oswald
rules a world in which industry has been
revolutionised by great new inventions.
A huge, strange city is shown; weird
machines make mining and manufacture
speedy and easy. An enormous cannon
(Jules Verne is leaned on here) is about
to propel a chosen young man and young
woman on a trip round the moon. Thes-
tocopulos (Sir Cedric Hardwicke), a
rebel against things as they are, raises a
mob to destroy the cannon, but before
they can do so it has sent its missilfr out
into space. The story ends with Oswald
Cabal delivering some aphorisms as to
necessity of adventure, achievement and
even martyrdom, if human life is to
attain and retain its highest level.
Alexander Korda, the producer, has
tackled the task of presenting this theme
pictorially in what one feels is the right
Wellsian spirit. Where Wells indicates
sublimity, Korda gets sublimity. If
there’s a comic vein to be explored, as
when “The Boss’s” battered little old-
fashioned biplanes rise to do combat
with giant all-metal monoplanes, Korda
makes the most of the contrast. An
immense amount of effect is obtained by
montage, which in a few brief shots
gives associations of ideas that would
take pages of a book fo express. The
scenes of a thousand years ahead are
superb—they are convincing in every de-
tail, and there has never, even in D. W.
Griffiths’s palmiest days, been such effec-
tive management of spectacles involving
vast crowds. This is. the finest spectacu-
lar film that has yet come out of an
English studio.
“Wedding Group”
The wedding group portrait comes
right at the end of the film, bringing all
the actors in a neat if very hackneyed
little drama on to the stage for the final
curtain. A lieutenant of the Seventy-
ninth Foot (Patrick Knowles), stationed
in a Scottish village, loved a daughter of
the manse (Fay Compton). An elder
sister made mischief, and it was not till
after, the Crimean War (where the sol-
dier’s sweetheart served with Florence
Nightingale) that the lovers were re-
united. The piece is full of excellent
character-drawing: the minister, his sons
and daughters and servant, doctors,
nurses, young officers, all are represented
convincingly, and the Scottish accent is
given as to the manner born by those
characters to whom it is essential. This
English film has been handled in a
quietly efficient fashion that encourages
hopes of more ambitious excursions on
similar lines. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Petticoat Fever”
The title indicates the virulent com-
plaint suffered by a young man who
catches his first sight of a beautiful girl
after having communed for two years
with polar bears and Eskimos in the
wastes of Labrador. The malady runs a
hectic course, for the y.m. is Robert
Montgomery and the b.g. Myrna Loy.
That she happens to have her middle-
aged fiancd, a titled, well-wadded gent.
(Reginald Owen), with her (they were
forced down near Robert’s Arctic wire-
less station while on a flight) matters
not one whit to the mercurial Robert or
the bubbling Myrna. Romance, despite
the gelid conditions (snow and ice scenes
are very good), flourishes with the speed
of the mushroom’s growth. But the
ointment wrapped around the two flies
is Reginald. As the temperature outside
falls his temper rises. There is material
here for comedy, of which the most is
made by the players. Then Robert’s
fiancee arrives on the scene, her belated
haste to join him coinciding with his in-
heritance of a fortune and a peerage, A
snappy denouement follows, with
chuckles sustained to the end of a de-
lectable bit of nonsense.
Montgomery does this type of farce-
comedy with ease, and Myrna Loy tilts
a pert nose and aids and abets with a
charming mixture of verve and languor.
Reginald Owen as a thoroughly self-
satisfied knight is in his best form. At
Sydney St. lames.
“The Unguarded Hour”
Here is a 20-to- 1-shot winner for film
punters. It starts off so modestly that
one expects a boring milk-and-water
affair, but quickly develops into a
cleverly-constructed mystery thriller.
Lady Deering (Loretta Young), wife
of Sir Allan Deering, a brilliant London
barrister (Franchot Tone), goes secretly
to Dover to hand over £2OOO to a black-
mailer in exchange for letters her hus-
band had written years before to the
blackmailer’s wife. Later, a man is
accused of murdering his wife by push-
ing'her over the Dover cliffs, the only
witness to his innocence being Lady
Deering. Fear of exposure keeps her
silent, as her husband is Crown Prose-
cutor. Follows the murder of the black-
mailer’s wife in circumstances pointing
to Sir Allan’s guilt. Some highly-dramatic
sequences are capped by a clever snap
ending.
The dignity of an English court is
well represented, the unidentified actor
who plays the Judge giving a fine per-
formance. Franchot Tone has improved
vastly, and Loretta Young is impressive,
but Roland Young pushes the headliners
into small type by as neat a piece of
acting as has been seen for some time.
His trapping of his friend Sir Allan by
shrewd hypothetical arguments is the tit-
bit of a surprisingly good film. Lewis
Stone makes a competent Scotland Yard
chief. Also at the St. James.
“Escape from Devil’s Island”
Though this film is melodrama un-
adorned, it carries a fair degree of con-
viction, mainly owing to the excellence of
the jungle scenes, intelligent direction
and the forceful acting of Victor Jory.
The setting is the infamous French
penal settlement which, with that other
Gallic institution the Foreign Legion, is
looked upon as a synonym for brutal
discipline. The story concerns Steve
(Stanley Andrews), a spy who, caught
red-handed, is sent to Devil’s Island. His
young colleague Dario (Victor Jory),
who is in love with Steve’s daughter
Johanna (Florence Rice), gets a job as
prison guard and effects the escape of
Steve and Andre, a young man who has
been wrongly condemned. In their
flight the older man is shot, but Dario
and Andre reach Cayenne, where they
join Johanna. When Dario finds that
Andre has fallen in love with Johanna
he gets a boat and dumps him back into
the jungle, but after Johanna tells him
she loves Andre Dario nobly goes to
his rescue. In doing so both are re-
captured. Andre is pardoned, the real
villain having confessed, and Dario gets
five years for helping the others to
escape. He blesses the happy lovers and
departs for the narrow cell.
Victor Jory fills his role satisfactorily,
but the support is feeble. At the Syd-
ney Capitol,
“Special Investigator”
With his every appearance Richard
Dix becomes less convincing. In this
film he gives the impression that his mind
is miles away from the proceedings, and
that he is only in the cast to make up
the number.
Admittedly the vehicle is weak. Dix
is the legal “mouthpiece” for racketeers
and, on his skilfully obtaining the
acquittal of a gangster, he is publicly
rebuked by the Judge. Then his
H.G. Wells, shaped like his “Things to
Come.”
brother, a G-man, is shot by bullion
thieves. The shyster sees the light,
throws up his practice and goes to
Nevada to assist the Federal men break
up the gang. He teams up with the
gangster chief’s sister (Margaret Calla-
han). Right wins over Vice, and lurv
conquers in the end.
Fifteen years ago Dix would have
made a good fist of this one-man-smash-
ing-a-gang theme. Margaret Callahan
is wasted on such stuff, but she’s a deco-
rative asset Also at the Capitol.
“Till We Meet Again”
World War espionage is the theme in
this drama with the somewhat inane
title, and the methods of the under-cover
agents have been expertly demonstrated.
The long bow appears at times to have
been drawn, but in such circumstances
the incredible often happened.
Alan Barclay (Herbert Marshall), a
London matinee idol, and Elsa Duranyi
Dick Powell in “Colleen,” at Sydney
Plaza.
(Gertrude Michael), an Austrian star,
plan to marry, but when the Great War
breaks out Elsa, a member of the Ger-
man Secret' Service, reluctantly places
herself under the orders of her chief,
Ludwig (Lionel Atwill), and disappears.
Alan joins up and, by virtue of his know-
ledge of German, is drafted to the British
Intelligence Service. His death in action
is announced (Elsa gets word of it in
Germany) and, as Hans Teller, a shell-
shocked prisoner, he is sent to the
Fatherland on exchange. He gets in
touch with Captain Schrottle (Rod la
Roque), and does valuable spying in a
munitions factory. He meets Elsa, who
is assigned to the task of locating the
British men. Love triumphs and they
plan to fly to Holland ; but Ludwig sus-
pects and lays a trap. The climax is
tremendously exciting, but the happy
ending is improbable. Despite this, the
film has been finely handled.
Herbert Marshall is well cast, and his
voice is, as ever, delightful. Gertrude
Michael, too, gives a highly-intelligent
interpretation of a difficult role. Lionel
Atwill as the relentless Ludwig is at his
best, and Rod la Roque as a spy who
pays the penalty is well-placed. Aus-
tralia’s old friend Guy Bates Post makes
a brief appearance as the chief of the
8.1.5. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Colleen”
A pot-boiler hurriedly slung together
to provide employment for Dick Powell,
Ruby Keeler, Hugh Herbert, Jack Oakie,
Joan Blondell, Louise Fazenda, Luis
Alberni and an unidentifiable tap-dancer
(male). Herbert is a mentally deranged
millionaire who engages Oakie as “assis-
tant executive” and sets Miss Blondell up
in business as a costumiere, thus paving
the way for thousands of feet of manne-
quin parades. Mr. Powell and Miss
Keeler stroll on and do some crooning
every few minutes, and then Jack Oakie
and Miss Blondell stroll on and do some
dispirited wisecracking. On the not in-
frequent occasions when the tenuous plot
comes to a complete standstill the tap
dancer and Miss Keeler, backgrounded
by hordes of chorines, shake their
hooves for ten minutes at a stretch. A
regrettable waste of good celluloid. At
Sydney Plaza.


are wailing lb
be shorn... ‘
5k
uA\ K >
: \
;
«5
me
0
m
,
y- Li
... On small farm
and huge sheep station
wool-sheds awaken
from their winter leth-
argy . . . shearing
machines whir and
clatter presses creak
.. . transports labour
under their burden of
wool. . . freight trains
thunder over hill and
plain .. . and Aus-
tralia’s chief primary
industry is in full
swing.
In 1807 John Mac-
Arthur exported the
first wool from Aus-
tralia. Last season
New South Wales
alone exported
£25,000,000 worth of
wool.
The Rural Bank
takes justifiable pride
in the fact that it has
been able, over a
period of many years,
to co-operate with the
growers responsible
for this progress.
The Bank has fully-
equipped branches in
representative centres
throughout the State
at which interest-bear-
ing Fixed Deposits can
be made and cheque
accounts opened.
* im
fa F
jk
BSp
m
RURAL
BANK'
NSW
Z
SERVING THE STATE
Commissioners : C. R. McKERIHAN President, H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
August Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
THE TARIFF AND THE CONSTITUTION
A Market Review
AUSTRALIA’S PRODUCTION PROSPECTS
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY. OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
“The Golden Arrow”
Also at the Plaza. All about a million-
airess (Bette Davis) who insists on marry-
ing a reporter (George Brent). An hour
later it turns out that she’s a fake, part
of the advertising enterprise of a tooth-
paste co., whereupon her husband glee-
fully takes her in his arms and promises
that in future she shall live in a one-
roomed shack. Principally notable for
the fact that Mr. Brent, as the reporter,
frequently takes oft' his hat, never wise-
cracks, and behaves like a normal well-
mannered human being. Miss Davis is
alternately hard-boiled and pathetic.
Support is fair, and there is enough
humor to keep the affair entertaining.
Some First Nights
The boundaries that define the N.S.W.
State Orchestra, the A.B.C. Symphony
Orchestra and the N.S.W. Con. Orchestra
are undiscoverable to the public. One or
all three of these ambiguous organisa-
tions, advertised as the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, cropped up at Sydney Town
Hall on Wednesday night under the baton
of Prof. Bernard Heinze, of the Melb.
Uni. Con., and under A.B.C. auspices, and
proceeded to demonstrate its versatility
by ranging from the foundry of Mos-
solov to the fountains of Respighi and
from Handel to Ravel, with 35 minutes
of Tschaikowsky, a sample from the
English moderns, and smaller dashes of
Mozart and Wagner thrown in to give
the mixture body. It is an organisation
embracing a great deal of talent, and if
it could remain for a few weeks in one
form under one conductor it might be
welded into a very fine musical instru-
ment.
Principal advertised attraction of the
evening was the singing of Handel and
Wagner numbers by Dorothy Helmrich
with full orchestral accompaniment. Miss
Helmrich was in better voice than in her
previous Sydney recitals, and sang very
skilfully, but the volume and the quality
of her notes are not such as to render a
heavy background necessary or appro-
priate.
•b *b *b *b
Richard Crooks continues to cause
traffic jambs in Swanston-street, and a
congestion problem on the Melbourne
Town Hall platform three times weekly.
The tenor with the superb legato con-
tinues to sway his audiences, first this
way and then that way, by providing pro-
grammes which range from the beauti-
ful to the commonplace ; and the impres-
sion he gives is that the instrument he
loves to play on is his audience. If, by
some unfortunate circumstance, he had
been born a Demosthenes, he would
have studied rhetoric with the same
design. Some people are inclined to
think that a virtuoso of the Crooks
pattern is only after the money,
but virtuosi who go after the money
seldom get it. But when they go
after the much more human occupation
of making human beings in the mass a
harp which responds to every touch of
their fingers, metaphorically speaking, the
money comes automatically. Szigeti, the
violinist, told the present writer that he
felt that he seldom had his Australian
audiences with him, and this seemed to
concern him far more than the lack of
activity at the box-office. Successful con-
certeers are never potboilers.
»%
The artistry of “The Gondoliers,”
one of the most tuneful of the
Savoy operas, packed His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, on Saturday night. Among
listeners who crowded every seat even
to the back row of the gods were
folk who knew every note of the
score in the gay ’nineties, another
generation which applauded Lance Fair-
fax, James Hay, Mabel Gibson and
Lilian Crisp as the quartet of Venetian
lovers, and yet a younger school which
nowadays views the first act with
placidity and the second with genuine
enthusiasm. Such is the lasting freshness
of Gilbert’s words and Sullivan’s music.
The cast was beautifully balanced.
Godfrey Stirling’s singing in “Take a
Pair of Sparkling Eyes,” Gregory Stroud’s
effortless interpretation of Giuseppe,
Helen Langton and Eileen Kelly, lively
and tuneful as Gianetta and Tessa (Miss
Kelly’s own spot of applause came for
“When a Merry Maiden Marries”), Clif-
ford Cowley and Winifred Lawson as the
gentle pair of lovers Luiz and Casilda,
were part of a smooth pattern. Richard
Watson was excellent as the chock-full-
of-dignity Grand Inquisitor, and Evelyn
rich contralto did full justice to
the role of the Duchess. Ivan Menzies
had a small part as the Duke of Plaza-
Toro, but he lived every moment of it,
digging the Inquisitor in the ribs, giving
cheek to everybody—even his Duchess
when he wasn’t gurglingly subservient to
her ~ ancl frisking through the gavotte,
which called forth encore after encore.
From the opening number —bringing
the news and introducing the headlines
against a background of newsprint —to
the finale wherein the whole co. crowds
into a haycart to ride off into the dis-
tance, “Stop Press” moves along at high
pressure at Melbourne Tivoli. It’s a very
athletic show. Never has Melbourne
seen anything quite so like flying through
space as the stunts of Deecamp and
Dodge on their horizontal bar. The
Karolis are a couple who have mastered
all there is to know about equilibrium.
He balances a ladder on the soles of his
upturned feet, she swarms up the steps
and stands on her head on the top, with
her toes a few inches from the roof of
the stage. Louis Arley and the Oliver
Sisters do some double-jointed balancing,
Arnie Hartman is a conqueror of the
concertina’s intricacies, the Bridges Musi-
cal Trio’s climax is concerted rhythm on
their xylophone, eccentric repartee is pro-
vided by Sammy Lewis and Patti Moore,
and the Bashful Boys wriggle in and out
of one another’s coats, Edwin Lawrence
is a perspiring comedian. Will Perry-
man has the sort of juicy voice that goes
down well in vaudeville. Al Mack,
Frankie Jarvie, Yvonne Banvard and
Isobelle Mahon fit into several pictures,
and the sprightly ballet has scenic effects
to do credit to its twinkling feet.
Current Artbursts
The Contemporary Group’s exhibition
at the Blaxland Galleries, Sydney, is a
bright-looking show, for most of the
city’s futurists and modernists, whatever
else may be said of them by the hard-
hearted, keep their colors clean and are
not afraid of honest red, green and yaller.
That contemporary art isn’t entirely a
matter of seeing things in a distorting
mirror is proved by the presence of at
least 50 paintings that present impressions
of things seen conscientiously,
Robert Wakelin, usually regarded as
the leader of rebellion against effete for-
mulae has to his credit a pair of portraits
that are good likenesses and snappily
painted, also a still-life, “The Red
Lamp,” which records the subject matter
without aberration. Margaret Preston
paints flowers in an individual and effec-
tive way, and one of the most conven-
tional of her compositions has caught the
eye of the Gallery trustees. Kenneth
Mac Queen shows some curvilinear skies
and landscapes, Joseph Connor gives
some very recognisable impressions of
Hobart, Thea Proctor, in “Eighteen
Seventy Five,” makes preposterous
fashions pictorial and John D. Moore
wallows in storm-clouds to his heart’s
content. But these are things one could
see in any show.
Really determined rebels are Vasilieff,
who searches out nasty subjects and
paints them, so that the world will realise
their nastiness and resolve to reform;
Helen Stewart, who paints in pink and
green a nude lady with elephantine limbs ;
Eric Thake, who limns two cellu-
loid combs and a couple of screw-
heads and calls the result “An Abstrac-
tion” ; Arnold Shore, who lays paint on
with a trowel, and whose work has a
sort of barbaric magnificence even when,
as in “Autumn,” a flower piece, it defies
the laws of gravity.
•b 4* *J*
No one who cherishes the least appre-
ciation of art should miss the exhibition
of color woodcuts by two famous
Viennese artists, Madame Bresslern-
Roth and Dr. Carl Rotky, at present
being held at Baillieu Allard’s board-
room, Collins Gate, Melbourne. Madame
Bresslern-Roth’s sense of composition is
exceptional, her sound grasp of drawing
harmonising with her feeling for group-
ing and arrangement. She has imagina-
tion, and the joy she obviously takes in
color is communicated to the spectator.
Her animal designs are fine pieces of
work, as perfect of their type as have
ever been seen in Melbourne. “Tigers
Drinking” and “Greyhounds” are vigor-
ous essays based on secure foundations
of draughtsmanship; the animals have
vitality in their long lithe lines; there
are no superfluous strokes or unneces-
sary details to spoil the feeling of free-
dom. “Ducks in Reeds” is a master-
piece of delicacy, “Gazelle Hunt” is full
of movement, and there is decorative
charm about “Leopard Hunt,” “Sea-
lions,” “Flamingoes” and several prints
of parrots. A black-and-white drawing
of a young lion is particularly forceful ;
in fact, each one of the Bresslern-Roth’s
exhibits is of value.
Dr, Rotky’s prints would earn more
praise if they were seen in any but such
high-class company. It seems as if the
feminine co-exhibitor has stolen prac-
tically all the masculine thunder. In
some prints Rotky uses a realistic tech-
nique ; he is content to be obvious rather
than subtle. Included are some fan-
tastic designs wherein quaint insects play
the part of human beings.


tont
door
i T 2 «iin uteS .
° nlV L heart oi
horn » e peace
the dW* ? s pte-
an dq.« ietne
"f nU , situated
xd eaUV eparh
ioC, " 9 „ elevated
in el
posin° n -
np
SSJ&
V
r\v!36l.
Compounded
from
high grade
medicinal
products
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOI' «*
JUJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The cadets, of the Royal Military Col-
lege, Victoria Barracks, made a whole
day of it for their silver jubilee celebra-
tions. In the morning there was a spec-
tacular march past of the cadets, watched
by the officers and their wives. In the
afternoon the sports grounds were in a
state of perpetual motion while hockey
and tennis stalwarts among the cadets
fought the good fight. Followed a grand
tea-drinking in the mess to the music of
the Royal Australian Artillery band.
Mrs. H. C. H, Robertson played hostess
to the host of Corporal H. D. Clark.
Her furs were silver fox; her suit and
hat were of dark blue. Brigadier J. L.
Hardie and Mrs. Hardie, whose frieze
tunic suit was brown, recurred through-
out the day’s round. Mrs. Jim Renwick,
of West Maitland, wore a caped suit of
beige tweed. A Maoriland visitor was
Mrs. John Brookes. Her suit was grey,
her blouse and beret green.
In the evening the old stone walls of
the college stood up proudly to the flood-
lights that were poured on them. The
college gymnasium, giddily festooned
with bunting in the blue and red
of the corps, cascading flags, and massed
with flame-tree bloom and red sweet-peas,
was the ballroom. Here, scarlet mess uni-
forms and the rainbow hues of the frock -
ing lived up to jubilee standards.
Last Friday the Roystone Daveys gave
a sherry five-to-seven. Mrs. Davey
called it her “back-to-the-life” party.
After an illness that lasted nearly three
years, to be up and about again must
put an extra sparkle into things. Any-
way, from entrance to exit there was a
ripple of bright voices curling about the
reception-rooms of the Queen’s Club.
There was a constant stream of guests,
and Mr. and Mrs. Davey and her
nephew, Henry Hordern, seemed threat-
ened with overworked hands. A coat
of black Persian lamb was worn by the
hostess over her black suit. Her hat
was a velour, smart, small and rich cor-
nelian in shade.
The Kelso Kings were glimpsed.
Lady Poynter’s frock and hat were in
wine shade; her cape was mink. Clara
Butter, tall and graceful in black, brought
her friend from Tasmania, Pauline
Spencer Parsons. Pauline’s frock was
striped in many colors. The Crawford
Robertsons were the centre of a jolly
group. Dr. and Mrs. F. W. Wheatley,
of the Royal Empire Society, Bush
Book Clubber Beulah Bolton, the Wade
and Hughes ladies, the Harry Meeks
couple, Mrs. Walter Swinson and a
group of music enthusiasts, Mrs, Harry
Dransfield in dahlia-red and Mrs. Guy
Blaxland in powder-blue helped make
up the pattern in the crowded rooms.
Theo Cowan’s Chinese jade necklet,
Doreen Higgins’s lacquered macrame
bracelet (colored like some gay product
of Mittel Europe), and the caped suit
worn by Mrs. Schofield, like Mr.
Wordsworth’s daffodils, still flash upon
the inward eye.
There are now 950 subscribers to the
Symphony Orchestra. The committee
whipping Sydney up to a sense of its
artistic responsibilities dreams of 2000 but
is determined on 1500. But there are
complaints that the concerts are too long,
the programmes too heavy. Even if the
listener is a musician he can suffer from
musical indigestion ; as for the ordinary
citizen who just likes to let waves of
sound roll over him, a timetable that
starts at a little after eight and ends at
ten is one that most meets with his ap-
proval. If the A.B.C. doubts this let it
take a vote on it.
Jo. Curgenven, only daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. W. B. Curgenven, of Bondi, is
the secretary of the younger group help-
ing to organise the Journalists’ Ball. This
is to be held in the motor-ship Duntroon
on August 13 —a Thursday night, and
many inkslingers complain that it is not
a good night for the brotherhood. But
after exhaustive inquiries by a special
royal commission it was found that no
night in the week would suit everybody,
therefore Thursday stands. The brightest
idea produced by the juniors is a clock
competition. The Percy Marks firm
has donated an opal pendant. The stone,
large and full of dark fires, is set in deli-
cate filigree work. A clock, steadily on
the downward path, is ticking away in a
locked safe. You guess the time at,which
it stops and the pendant is yours.
Lady Poynter is president of the ball
committee, and under her leadership
there is a complete absence of squalls.
There will be no fewer than three
hampers stocked with good things to be
carried home by the housewife clever
at guessing competitions. A golf day at
Manly, a tennis tournament at the White
City, picture and bridge parties are all
listed as preliminary moneymakers. The
ball benefits the Journalists’ Benevolent
Fund.
The home of the Consul for Latvia,
Norman McLeod, is ringed with gum-
trees and bushland shrubs. In this Aus-
tralian setting Europe and Asia and the
music of both mingled in harmony last
Sunday. Over the gateway flew the flag
of Latvia, and to the party came the pic-
turesque little wife of Japan’s Consul-
General Murai with a young musician
compatriot who played the works of
Japanese composers, some of his own
among them. France was represented by
the Vice-Consul Edmond Meyer couple,
and Greece by its Consul, Dr, Kokotakis.
Mrs. Norman McLeod wore her satin
black hair parted in the middle, Madonna
style. Her frock of black romaine had
a puritan collar of white, below which
gleamed a brooch and pendant of plati-
num and diamonds. Sister Mrs. Targett
and tall Jocelyn Targett in a ground-
length frock of apple-green helped to
entertain.
The three young Mailings, who go off
to Denmark for further study, played
separately and together brilliantly. Alice
Prowse, very handsome jn black and
white, a coque plume drooping over her
small hat, sang German songs; tenor
Charles Nicis, as a Russian gipsy, made
the rafters ring, and then as a compli-
ment to the French visitors poured out
“The Two Grenadiers.” Eye man Dr.
Temple Smith had the pleasure of hear-
ing one of his poems, made into a song
by Mrs. McLeod and composer J. Brash,
sung in the hostess’s rich and flexible
voice.
Margery Murdoch, who set a vivid
smile in ruby reds, Dr. Levis and daugh-
ter Joan, pianist Carl Budden Morris,
who played like a poet, Linda Paul, her
profile very handsome above a rampart
of fur collar. Dr. F. Roberts, Mrs. F.
Taylor and sister Miss Parsons, Mrs. P.
Miller, whose springlike frock of deep
blue was patterned in white, and Miss
Elizabeth Plummer were others at this
party, which was as international as
Geneva.
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Pank, of Edge-
cliff, surrounded niece Margot Pank with
congratulations and celebrations on her
twenty-first birthday. In the evening
there was a gay little dance at the Man-
hattan, at which the blonde Margot
looked pictorial in black velvet with
shoulder drapes of French tapestry lace.
Margot is the daughter of the late Harold
G. Pank, of Lambourne and Pank, opti-
cians, and only recently left Adelaide to
join the staff of the C. of E. Girls’ Gram-
mar at Newcastle.
The week ended on a rocket of gaiety
at the Victoria Barracks. A dance organ-
ised by the Ist Field Cadre R.A.A. served
to introduce 17 white-satined debs, to the
social world. The night was made mem-
orable for them. Two heralds, in white
satin suits and plumed hats, and six little
flowergirls, in ground-length chiffon
frocks, led the procession which passed
under an arch of lances to the saluting
base, where Brigadier-General and Mrs.
Hardie waited to receive the debs. Ivory
lace and silver tissue formed Mrs.
Hardie’s frock ; Mrs. Lorenzo, who came
with her colonel, wearing lupin-blue satin.
Blue was also Mrs. H. B. Sewell’s choice.
The Tongan National Anthem is a
stirring work. It preceded “God Save
the King” at the opening of the Fifth
Symphony Concert, because the digni-
fied and smiling Queen Salote was in
the audience. The friendly Bernard
Heinze was the conductor, and from the
opening “Figaro” music all was happi-
ness and brightness except for the shade
of poetic melancholy over the Shropshire
Lad. In the second part of the pro-
gramme everybody was glad after the
nerve-racking “Iron Foundry” of Mos-
solov to bow a mentally bloody head to
the gentleness of Respighi’s “Fountains of
Rome.” But not till the end of the con-
cert did Ravel’s “Bolero,” which had
lured Greek Consul Kokotakis, occur.
Dorothy Helmrich, who looked like a
small edition of Clara Butt, was the
vocalist of the evening. In a rose-red
frock that might have been the work
of a Chanel or a Molyneux, and which
flowed to a short train and had its
shoulder scarf of chiffon caught to the
arm just below the elbow with a round
bracelet, she sang Handel and Wagner
arias. An audience fashionable and only
slightly befurred (the night was mild)
filled the Town Hall. Outstanding were
Mrs. Crawford Robertson, with her
sleekly-dressed hair, and Lorna Searl,
vivid and cigarette slim.
Lorna McKean was one of the four girls
in the final who received honorable men-
tion for the Melba Bequest scholarship
(within Australasia) at the Albert-street
Conservatorium in 1935. When “The
Ship of Heaven,” by Hugh McCrae and
Alfred Hill, was produced in Sydney
Lorna was its Cupid. Recently she
played the part of Pamina in the Sydney
Conservatorium Opera School’s produc-
tion of “The Magic Flute.” Early next
month the singer will give a recital at
the Conservatorium. Photograph from
Desmond Woolley.
Does science know of an operation
that can sprout wings on humans? If
so Mrs. Ivy Moore, of Mosman, would
surely be one of the first in the queue at
the operating table. After flying north
and south, east and west, she took to the
air on Wednesday, lunched in Melbourne,
dined in Hobart and was home again
on Thursday.
Models of locomotives, sets of signals,
tenders filled with coal—these were among
the decorations at the Railway Depart-
ment’s ball at the Trocadero. Daddy was
on the engine all right, for the importants
who make the wheels go round had a
life-size poster of an engine rushing out
of a tunnel at the back of their
table, while scattered shout the festive
board were other reminders of the long
steel tracks. Commissioner T. J. Hartn
gan, very much at home, gave the all-
clear signal. Mrs. T. J. helped him
entertain officialdom wearing dark
sapphire moires dashed with orchids.
Daughter Joan combined filmy lace and
creamy satin, and her frock fastened
down the front with large pearls.
The Acting-Premier Bruxners and
Mayor Howie, with Mayoress Mrs.
Parkes and her alderman husband, were
in this group.
Josephine Jack, from the United
States, wore a trig little jacket of white
pique with her long black satin skirt. The
State Taxation Commissioner came with
Mrs. McMahon, and one idly wondered
if they had had to pay amusement tax.
The H. B. Clapps brought a party ; the
S. A. Maddocks couple were there, and
so were the Eric Spooners. Jean Fahey
wore a sari with graceful effect. Her
frock was of hydrangea blue satin.
Out in the Randwick Town Hall last
Monday the women of the Randwick-
Coogee U.A.P. forces met to congratu-
late Ruby Storey on her decoration of
M.B.E. There were five members of
Parliament, a musical programme and a
great tea-drinking to add to the gaiety.
The whole capably produced by the
group’s president, Sarah Hynes.
With a grace that might have become
the age of which he had been speaking,
knight Francis Anderson kissed the
hands of ladies who offered congratula-
tions at the Dante Alighieri Society’s
lunch in his honor. Of course, the act
of gallantry was not general ; it was re-
served for old acquaintances of the bril-
liant little professor and his lady. One
half of Romano’s was curtained off, and
every chair at the many tables was
occupied. Iceland-poppies in tones of
orange and primrose gave uplift to the
eye, and soft Australian wines brightened
the sensibilities for, the reception of the
professor’s address. This was on the
internationalism of Dante’s poetry, and
the speaker had a subject on which he
could be both erudite and eloquent.
The Dante’s president, Bertie Kelly,
made an excellent host. One lady guest
had the Italian colors in the little feathers
on her toque ; Lute Drummond’s black
velvet hat was finished with a Bersagliere
coque plume. Mrs. Ferrari Passmore
made a first appearance after her long
illness. Violinist Leo Cherniavsky’s wife,
an artist in food who cooks for the love
of it and thinks hours of preparation not
wasted when her dinner party is a
triumph, was among the eaters of
spaghetti and other Italian dishes. With
her was the Canadian soprano, Lilian
Wilson. Greek Consul Kokotakis was
present; Miss Egan sat at the head of a
table ; Mrs. B. Norris took her Dante
between an Italian lesson and a discourse
on German art at the National Gallery.
And if that’s not internationalism, what
is? After lunch the knightly Andersons
did good business rounding up sets for
the International Ball.
The founders of Sydney’s Commercial
Banking Company would have thrown up
hands of horror at the idea of woman
taking a hand in their banking chamber.
Over 100 years ago the bank hung out
its first brass plate in an arcade in Bridge-
street. The girls who organised the in-
stitution’s dance last week didn’t go far
afield from the old site for their jubila-
tion (it was at the Wentworth), though
ideas on woman’s sphere in the business
world have travelled long and rapidly.
The dance benefited the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital. Ruth Wilkinson was
its secretary.
Was it imagination, or did the tem-
perature drop a point or two when Act-
ing-Premier Bruxner was opening the
annual exhibition of the contemporary
artists in the Blaxland Galleries? Mr.
Bruxner asked one of the contempor-
arians, “What is the difference between
the art depicted by this group and the
more conventional art?” And she re-
plied, “Well, they have electric stoves in
the country now, and why should they
not have them?” And if you think that's
cryptic go to the show itself. To the
listener Mr. Bruxner making his art re-
marks sounded 100 p.c. politician. To
Daniel his lions, to Patrick his snakes,
but to Michael Bruxner his artists!
DEBUTANTES PRESENTED TO BASE
COMMANDANT.
— “S.M.H.” heading.
Properly chaperoned, it is to be hoped!


Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM EDWARD MILLER, who was last
heard of in 1922 at The Branch, Stroud, via
Vooral (or Booral), New South Wales, where
he was employed as a farm manager, but who
came from Cropwell Butler, Leicestershire,
England, or, if the said William Edward Miller
were married, the whereabouts of his wife
and/or children, is asked to communicate with
MESSRS. CARLILE, McLEAN, SCANNELL
& WOOD, Solicitors, Queen Street, Hastings,
Hawke’s Bay, New Zealand.
WORDSWORTH.—Any person knowing the
whereabouts of JOHN CHRISTIAN CURWEN
WORDSWORTH, formerly employed as a
shearer on Arolla Downs station, Queensland,
is asked to communicate with MESSRS.
GAVAN DUFFY & KING, Solicitors, 125
Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, who have
information which will prove to be to his
advantage.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday.
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Melbourne
Chatter
There was no predominating glitter of
uniforms at the 2nd Medium Brigade,
Royal Australian Artillery’s dance at
Tudor Court, for a very large number
of dancers present were guests invited by
the militia gunners. The first thing that
met the eye in the reception-room was
the glitter of silver cups, trophies of the
brigade’s prowess of eye and limb ; the
second was a crackling fire ; another fire
behind the dais kept the stiffness out of
the orchestra’s fingers. The bar proved
a popular source of good fellowship, and
“cookhouse,” which took place at one
sitting in four supper-rooms, and early-
morning rations of beef-tea and celery
soup kept everybody merry and bright.
Hosts of the evening were the Brigade’s
C. 0., Lieut.-Col. A. T. Macarthur (whose
wife wore black with white scarf-
draperies), mess president Major L. R.
Stillman (Mrs. Stillman’s gown was of
ink-blue taffeta with bands of white-
spotted net at shoulders and ankles),
Lieut. L. D. King and Lieut. H. P.
Hamilton. Major P. J. McCormack es-
corted his black-velvet-clad fiancee, Iris
Hearle, who will wear bridal raiment
before the end of the year. Mrs. John
Rhoden chose a frock of plumbago-blue,
Mrs. Ernest Jones was in silver lame
and Mrs, John Clarebrough enhanced
her blonde coloring with Patou-pink
draperies. Among other guests were
Dr. and Mrs, Charles Kellaway. The
doctor, who is preparing to leave for
America on a lecturing tour, has through
successful research work accumulated a
vast amount of knowledge about snake-
bite, poisons and antidotes. MrS. Kella-
way is postponing a holiday overseas
until her three sons are a few years older.
To synchronise with the B.M.A. meet-
ing in England, Palmyra, Toorak, was
also the scene of a party. The hostesses
were James Barrett’s lady, who played
such an important part at last year’s
B.M.A. meeting in Melbourne, and
daughter Cara. In their speeches Major-
General Downes, Dr. Summons and Dr.
Newman Morris made eulogistic refer-
ences to their absentee host and to the
late Richard Stawell (the first Australian
to be elected a B.M.A. president), whose
wife and daughter Ann were among the
afternoon’s special guests. A cheery
speech was provided by John Parry, who
proposed the health of “the lucky young
chap,” meaning Miss Stawell’s fiance in
England, whose name he couldn’t re-
member. The bride-to-be quickly sup-
plied the name, Edgar Howitt; she
couldn’t let such an important toast be
honored with any uncertainty. Several
early arrivals among the guests made a
deviation through the woody garden to
look at the koalas, who share the sanc-
tuary with some wallabies.
Almost with the speed of sceneshifters
did the workmen on Albany Court
(builders’ strike notwithstanding) create
a shop on a Collins-street frontage. With
the rest of the building gaping windows
and damp-smelling plaster, the little shop
shone like a new pin as, painted, polished
and varnished, it was formally launched
on its one week of life as the Gift Shop.
The Hon. Mrs. Helme Pott performed
the initiating ceremony, prefacing her
speech with the remark that usually shops
are “opened” in front of a long line of
anxious shareholders, but the Gift Shop’s
shareholders were all absent, possibly
tripping up weary mothers in congested
households.
Proceeds go towards the rebuilding of
the Ministering Children’s League’s Cot-
tage by the Sea at Queenscliff. Sales
were brisk, for prices were reasonable.
It didn’t really matter whether the per-
suasive influence at work on business
houses and private citizens was impulse
of generosity, personality of the com-
mittee members soliciting gifts or the
chance of unloading unnecessary im-
pedimenta; the stall was stocked with
attractive merchandise and tempered by
no worries of borrowed capital or over-
head, for everything was donated.
Snapshot glimpses on the first morning
were caught of Raynes Dickson, jun.,
representing the Howey trustees, who
lent the shop; convener Mrs. Cairns
Officer, in brown tailored tweeds; Mrs.
Walter Carnegie and Mrs, Herbert Syme,
sending home all their acquaintances with
boxes of cakes and other home-mades;
Mrs. J. G. Purves, wearing her favorite
violets; Mrs. Alfred Taylor, calling
attention to chickens; Colin Fraser’s
lady and Mrs. A. M. Treacy, wrap-
ping up antiques with modern effi-
ciency. Judging by the rapidity with
which the old-world bits were sell-
ing, it is possible that, although
there is a cache away from the shop,
there will be nothing left to dispose of at
the end of the week. Mrs. Lennpx
Spiers, for instance, was so delighted with
her three plates that she resolved to re-
turn every day in hopes of more treasure
finds.
Members of the outside detachment,
Mrs. Barry Thomson, Mrs, Phil Lock,
Dorothy Raws, Sue Staughton and
Norma Lloyd, wished that spectators who
didn’t intend to buy tickets in hamper
or lucky dips would “move along,
please!” for doorway and footpath con-
gestion, though flattering, was liable to
cramp the style of anglers after really
big fish.
Here is a Jack Cato portrait of Joan
Lewis, one of Victoria’s most promising
young golfers. Miss Lewis was among
the eight to qualify for the Victorian
women’s championship, and put up an
excellent fight in the first round of match
play, losing to Mrs. Sloan Morpeth, this
year’s champion, by only two up and
one to go. Miss Lewis has played for
only three years, and as she has not had
much leisure most of her practice was
obtained in the late afternoon on the
Albert Park links opposite her home in
Queen’s-road. She is a daughter of Dr.
J. C. Lewis, is an old girl of Melbourne
Grammar School, and has done well at
several other sports, particularly tennis,
baseball and hockey.
Amateur dramatic talent gave its ser-
vices for a two-night season at the Melba
Hall in aid of the Women’s College and
the Union Building fund ; a couple of
engineering undergrads, gave their ser-
vices also, and had by far the most un-
comfortable job. Seated on window sills
high up near the roof, their backs in the
cold, frosty air, their legs dangling over
space, they manipulated the stage lights.
The first playlet was Bernard Shaw’s
“Man of Destiny.” Fortunately for the
cast’s nerves its component parts did not
know that Carrie Haase was in the audi-
ence on the second night. She had played
the part of the Strange Lady in this one-
acter some years ago in England with a
co. which did a tour of the provinces, and
which so interested Bernard Shaw that
he was present at several rehearsals.
In the interval everybody adjourned to
the Tallis Wing for sixpenn’orth of
biscuits and piping hot coffee, and after
the second item, the first act of Ros-
tand’s “Fantastics,” Dr. W. Bryden spoke
a word in appreciation of the cast and
producer, Frances Barkman, and Mary
Lindsay Smith and Chester Wilmott, both
of the students’ representative council,
mounted the stage to draw numbers out
of a hat for lucky boxes of chocolates.
On the same evening that the Gov-
ernor-General and Lady Gowrie dis-
embarked at Dunk Island as guests of
the Hugo Brasseys, Mrs. T. J. Ryan was
speaking of her North Queensland and
Barrier Reef experiences to the Centenary
Club and Dunk, Daydream, Lindeman
and Magnetic islands (Lord Huntingfield
left for Magnetic on Saturday) were
being projected on to a movie screen as
illustration to the lecture. Mrs. Ryan
prefaced her talk by suggesting coughs
as hints for long-windedness—which
wasn’t fair during the influenza month.
One or two listeners went through
agonies trying to control their throats
until the lecturer noticed their predica-
ment. In Queensland she travelled on
most uncomfortable conveyances, but
she has a lively sense of humor, and is
obviously a good sailor to tackle such
long trips in launches and yachts. A rail
car and an empty truck into which the
driver had not had time to load his ton
of bricks as ballast were other vehicles
that may have been good for digestion,
but were the world’s worst for bones
and muscles. But the bellhop at the
Yungaburra Hotel was impervious to
Mrs. Ryan’s plight. While carrying her
suitcase from the station he suggested
blithely and in all seriousness that she
would have a grand time at the hotel
playing ping-pong—and she so stiff that
she could hardly walk beside him.
Our Scottish regiment has a mascot as
Caledonian as its kilts and sporrans. He
is a little West Highland terrier, and over
his own hairy white coat he wears in
cold weather a button-on surtout in
Gordon tartan. He is already known as
Jock, but his formal christening is to take
place to-morrow night on the stage of
the Apollo at the regiment’s theatre party.
Jock was a gift from Mrs. C. F. Mc-
Cracken, and was handed over to Colonel
Mathieson during the ceremony of pre-
sentation of prizes in the Sturt-street
Drill Hall, when, to comply with regula-
tions, he had to “sign on the dotted line”
with an inky paw. Other celebrations
of the week, in connection with the regi-
ment’s thirty-eighth anniversary were a
parade at Scots Church on Sunday after-
noon and a cadets’ dance on the previous
evening.
Early in September there’s to be a
Highland Ball —not just a drill-hall hop,
but a really big affair in the Town Hall,
sponsored by the Scottish Society, the
Scottish regiment and the Highland
Dance Circle. The Melbourne Scots
claim that they have the best annual
dinner in the city, plus the best after-
dinner speeches, so why shouldn’t they
be in the running for the best ball? Lord
and Lady Huntingfield have promised
their patronage, and proceeds will go to
Melbourne Hospital.
A marriage of interest to both Victoria
and N. S. Wales will be solemnised at
St. John’s, Toorak, on August 5. The
bride-to-be (glimpsed here by a Raymond
Kelly camera) is Patricia, daughter of
Stanley Hammond, of Coonac, Clendon-
road, Toorak, and the ’groom will be
Chester Guest. Following the early after-
noon service there will be a reception at
Coonac.
A pastel-blue group of leading ladies,
a bridal gown cut in tunic fashion and
’maids wearing shoulder-length tulle veils
instead of the more usual halo wreaths
were original diversions of raiment at
the marriage of Barbara Campbell and
Tom Fogarty. The bride, who was given
away by her mother, Mrs. C. E. Camp-
bell, chose white gardenias for her
bouquet and hair chaplet, her veil was
of palest blue, and a silver thread mingled
in the wedding gown of the same soft
shade as the veil. Attendants Judith
Campbell, Celia and Betty Fogarty and
Betty Timmins carried pink azaleas,
echoes of the blooms which were clasped
high on their heads atop the quaint little
veils which were as mistily blue as their
frocks. The tall ’groom, who is the
second son of Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Fogarty,
had as his henchmen Peter Lempriere,
John Fogarty, Esmonde Jones and Jim
Watt. After a church ceremony to which
only a handful of relatives were invited,
a reception was held at the home of the
bride’s grandparents, Mr. and Mrs, J. K.
Merritt. There have been similar ar-
rangements for several recent marriages
wherein bride and ’groom and their wit-
nesses heard the vows in almost empty
churches, after which they were the centre
of a whirl of congratulations at large
receptions.
With mixed feelings in their hearts Cr.
and Mrs. E. L. Morton waved good-bye
yesterday from North Wharf as daughter
Gwen set forth in the Westralia to under-
take her new duties as biochemist at
Perth Hospital. Gwen will be very much
missed at home. At 22 she is already
such a competent and clever young
woman that her parents are feeling a
nice warm glow of pride in her achieve-
ments, Melbourne Grammar School is
her only Alma Mater. She went there
from kindergarten days upwards to a
leaving honors course. Miss Morton
accomplished her B.Sc. in fine style, and
is so enthusiastic about her work that
the toil that lies ahead for an M.Sc. is
only a very small cloud on her horizon.
Her younger sister Lesley is studying
music at the Conservatorium.
The Business and Professional
Women’s Club has never before given
a practical demonstration of the breadth
of its interests. Sales were not permitted
at the exhibition but orders were taken,
and the attention shown by spectators
forecasts a response to good advertising.
Among the feminine exhibitors were a
jeweller, a surgical corsetiere, an estate
agent, a slimming expert, a landscape gar-
dener, a press-cutting agent, a typing and
duplicating expert, chemists, a cottage-
builder and several creators of gowns
and dress accessories.
“You can’t keep a good girl down.”
On the day on which the general public
packed the lower Town Hall for the Busi-
ness and Professional Women’s Club’s
first exhibition it was announced that the
feminine element had invaded yet an-
other masculine domain. Miss G. M,
Gillespie, aged 25, has been named chair-
man of directors of the Glenespie Golden
Area Mining Syndicate. The young
woman was a prospector in the saltbush
country around Broad Arrow in W.A.,
has roughed it at the Yellowdine and
been up to Charters Towers.
Helene Best, who becomes Mrs. James
Mellotte in London on August 1, will
receive among other presents from her
mother a beautiful rose-colored plate
bought last week at the Ministering
Children’s League Gift Shop. Dr. Mel-
lotte is a very successful eye specialist
who was to have come to Melbourne
last year for the B.M.A. meeting, but
through a change of plans started prac-
tice in Harley-street about the time dele-
gates were setting sail for this part of
the world. He and Miss Best met for
the first time in London earlier in the
year.
That the age of youth is not quite
unconquerable must be some satisfaction
to the generation of seeded experience.
Twenty-nine years after she won the first
of her national and State golf associates’
titles, Mrs. Austin Gatehouse has be-
come once more champion of Royal
Melbourne. The game against Mrs.
Sloan Morpeth went to the nineteenth
and was full of thrills for those who fol-
lowed the match on a day when the
weather had missed its step and danced
right onwards into spring.


FIRST S A LOO N
/J!
X
»»
s
■ 111
A
m
I
O
/
i
31
■->;„■■■ - •
WM
| ■ i|
i i
HI
■
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND-
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Singers Elizabeth Rethberg and Ezio
Pinza were given a welcome at the
Adelphi by the A.B.C. Guests were re-
ceived by local manager Conrad Charlton
and his lady (her beige outfit was finished
with telling touches of brown), intro-
duced to g.m. Moses, and by him to
the visiting artists. The cantatrice had
floating fur-edged drapes on her effective
navy ensemble, and wound enviable
strands of pearls around her throat. The
pearls were again to the fore at the first
concert at H.M. Theatre, when she wore
a delicate contraption of black lace and
lacquered tulle, with frilly cape coatee
and three diamente ornaments on the
corsage.
Wattle-blossom, poinsettias and flag
lilies were massed in the hall of the
Myola Club for the members’ Cinderella
dance. President Mrs. F. Bromilow was
there in sweeping apricot georgettes, next
to dance organiser Mrs. G. Farmaner,
who edged her dawn-pink laces with
brown fur. Mrs. Cecil Evans’s chiffon
velvets gleamed sapphire-blue, Mrs. A. R.
Morris scattered misty flowers on her
black satins, Judith von Pestalozzi puffed
a cloud of blush-pink lace over rustling
taffetas, and clusters of pink roses were
caught on Pat Cotterell’s white organza.
Only relatives were present at the cele-
bration of Canon and Mrs. Clairs’s
diamond wedding. Canon Clairs has
completed twenty-one years’ service as
military chaplain, and in September of
this year will celebrate his golden jubilee
as a clergyman in Westralia, for the
couple sailed from England in 1886, their
ship, the Helena Mena, taking three and
a half months on the journey here. Be-
fore her marriage Mrs. Clairs was Eliza-
beth Pitt-Stokes, a member of that branch
ct the Pitt family which produced the two
great William Pitts.
The cheerful log fire at one end of
King’s Park Tennis Club pavilion was a
popular spot with the crowd which
turned up at the annual dance. The Basil
Bruces were there, she with ivory
georgette sleeves flanking her black matt
crepes. The Karl Knapps (her amethyst
moire taffetas were splashed with violets)
were others near the fire. Gladys Hadley
warmed her toes in lustrous moon-blue
velvets, the flames were reflected in Mrs.
Marshall Clifton’s rosy taffeta with its
applique of gold and Valenciennes lace,
and Betty Wood’s sunray-pleated chiffons
were near the warmth. Dorothy Lumb
squeezed cire ribbon banded black nets
into the circle. Pat Flower’s gold-
girdled blue silks were near by.
Before the Mitchell lady opened the
G.F.S. bazaar there was a musical pro-
gramme arranged by Mr. Williams and
given by Mrs. Digby Leach and Stephany
Nash. State president Mrs. Alfred Burt
presented the first lady with a basket of
violets and snowdrops, then took her on
a tour of the heavily-laden stalls, which
were set up in rooms festooned with ferns
and colored lights.
In James Bridie’s “Tobias and the
Angel” the Rep. Soc. brought to light
the most ambitious setting of its career.
Persia of the good old days was color-
fully reproduced, and dancers and singers
did their bit in giving atmosphere. Cyril
Riley, who relinquishes his position as
club director to do similar work in Ade-
laide, made his final production memor-
able, Tom Tracy as the Angel added to
bis list of successes, and Pat Hannah,
Gordon Dean and Bob Hayes figured
prominently.
The women’s section of the P.P.A. put
on a luncheon at the Carlton to welcome
back Mrs. Foster Mattel, who was instru-
mental in forming the association in W.A.
President Mrs. Craven Griffiths proposed
the toast of the guest of honor, and
C. G. Latham supplemented the remarks.
Miss Agnes Stops, voluntary organiser,
lecturer and handicraft worker of The
Women’s Institute in England, was feted
by the Home Industries Committee of the
C.W.A. Mrs. W. E. Weeds and Miss A.
Weeds, two members of the Maoriland
Institute, had box seats, and the three
visitors held presentation posies of kanga-
roo paws, wattle and Geraldton wax.
Gwenyth Ambrose, second daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Theodore Ambrose, has
booked a matrimonial date with Wil-
fred Adamson, of Colombo. Wedding-
bells are to ring in January.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The programme of the Radio Ball at
the Palais Royal provided some different
sort of entertainment every half-hour, in-
cluding a ping-pong dance in which the
competitors used frying-pans for bat's, a
miniature cycle race for which “Miss
Radio” (Yvonne Richardson) presented a
silver cup, a mannequin parade and an
acrobatic display. Profits went to the
Lord Mayor’s Fund and T.B. Soldiers.
The convener of the women’s commit-
tee, Mrs. Charles Freeman, wore magnolia
satin embroidered in a butterfly design in
silver thread and white beads; Miss M.
Cleggett, representing the T.B. Society,
was gowned in black georgette, the V
neck outlined in pale pink and finished
with a net bow. Iris Hart (she’s engaged
to Maurice Chapman, of SAD) was
frocked in cyclamen georgette, with scarf
ends falling from the shoulders and
sweet-peas worn in the hair. Mrs. Lionel
Hill wore a gold lame tunic over black
satin, Mrs. Reg Bowman favored a pink
matelasse tunic patterned in gold with a
skirt of black velvet, and Edith Donald-
son contrasted black georgette and a
short white fur coat.
Mount Osmond Country Club drew a
big crowd to its midwinter ball at the
clubhouse. The electroliers were en-
closed in inverted floral umbrellas in
autumn tones, and the mantelshelf was
arranged with poinsettias, Iceland pop-
pies, African marigolds, wattle and roses
almost to the ceiling. Supper was served
in a huge marquee, decked with pale-
pink, blue and mauve flowers. Mrs.
Howard Vaughan was chief engineer.
Guests were received by Dr. Darcy
Cowan, the president, and Mrs.
Cowan, the lady gowned in black tulip
satin, cut on princess lines. Immediately
following the reception a minuet was
danced by 12 of the younger members
of the club in silks and velvets, powder
and patches. The dance was arranged
by Mrs. G. Johnson, and the girls—
Nancy Stuart, Phemie Armstrong, Beth
Magarey, Dorothy Grundy, Bernice
Betts and Nancy Hector—made their own
costumes. Mrs. Howard Vaughan was
in dubonnet chiffon velvet. Mrs. Tom
Newton, who supervised the decorations,
chose black romaine, made with a swing-
back cape effect. Mrs. E. W. Holden
showed black French lace under a long
marmot fur coat, Mrs. M. Erichsen’s
black chiffon was patterned in scarlet
poppies, and Mrs. J. H. Morish sported
a jet tunic over a skirt of black satin.
C.O.R. held its ball at the Embassy,
which was decorated with scarlet poin-
settias and blue gum, with Iceland
poppies on the tables. In the official
party were manager S. Clarkson and his
wife, she in schooner blue, fitting to the
figure. Mrs. J. W. Elfick chose black
chiffon velvet, with shoulder straps of
diamente and white camellias on the
bodice. Mrs. B. Millagar, a visitor from
the U.S.A., was wearing black coin-
spotted net with full skirt and puffed
sleeves.
Mr, and Mrs. Howie Harris, of Ken-
sington Park, have received a cable in-
forming them of the marriage of their
only daughter, Joan, to G. K. Kirke at
Biggar, Scotland, on July 14. The bride-
groom, the eldest son of the Rev. G. K.
Kirke, of Brisbane, and Dr. Alice Kirke,
who is visiting Edinburgh, is on the staff
of King’s College, Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
Old scholars of Friends’ School
danced in the Hodgkin Hall, which took
the 260 guests on its floor with a little
management. Supper was served in the
lecture hall, and the tables were lit by
tall candles. The head and Mrs. Unwin
were present, and the official party in-
cluded president Charles Mitchell and
Mrs. Mitchell, Mr. and Mrs. Owen
Burrows (Clunes College), Mr. and Mrs.
W. R. Vincent (Hutchins Collegiate
Schools) and W. Verrell (Old Virgilians).
Devonport’s Convent Ball was well
run. Priminister Lyons’s better-half, as
patroness, wore a silver tissue frock.
Supper was served in the courthouse,
and David Armitage’s orchestra made
the music.
Quite a big affair was the dinner-
dance engineered by the management
at Hadley’s. About 100 guests dined, and
many more danced, in the lounge, which
was converted into a ballroom for the
occasion.
Lady Clark paid a visit to the Hobart
Relief Committee’s canteen at lunch-
time the other day, and was pleasantly
impressed by what she saw. The kiddies
are well-fed and can be sent home clean
after a hot bath —not a thing easily ob-
tainable in their own homes. Cans of
hot stew are requisitioned for the grown-
ups in necessitous cases.
Pat Butler gave an original party lately
at her grandmother’s house in Augusta-
road. Every guest had to represent a
character from Dickens, and some of the
dresses and the men’s costumes, too,
were very well done.
The re-dedication of the old monument
in Barrack-square to the memory of the
men and officers of the 99th Foot Regi-
ment who fell in the Maori War was a
touching ceremony. His Ex.’s little
address was good and to the point, and
a big crowd gathered to do honor to the
long-since-dead. The monument has
been furbished up and the lettering
restored.
Lady Clark was a guest at Mrs. G. R.
Adams’s party to welcome Mrs. Batter-
shill, who has come on a visit from her
home in Cyprus to John Gellibrand and
his lady. The locale was Mrs. Horace
Walch’s flat, where bulbs and berries
made decorations.
Karla Major and Edward Heritage
were matrimonially linked at St.
Aidan’s, Lindisfarae, The bride’s semi-
evening frock of wine-red marocain and
matching lace was topped by a felt hat
in the same shade. Mrs. Alex. Major as
matron of honor wore dusty-pink with
a silver thread in it, and a halo hat of
silver lame.


CALM STOMACH
NERVES & INTESTINES
Stop twitching abdominal nerves and muscles—END
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Gastritis, Flatulence, Heart-
burn, Sourness, Acidity, Fermentation, etc., by taking
HARRISON-Maclean Stomach Powder. Get instant
relief and ensure peaceful rest. Stomach and intes-
tines are soothed, healed, protected more completely
than by old methods. Inflamed, ulcerated tissues get
back to normal, even after years of dependence on
mere relief-givers. Bowels, too (where 75 per cent,
of digestion occurs), are made healthy by Harrison-
Maclean Powder. If a real restoration to perfect
digestive health is what you seek, as well as quick
relief, take Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder and
recover, as millions have. 2/6 at any good chemists,
tseware of inferior “Maclean” substitutes—get the
famous White Package, and see the name HARRISON
for your protection.
Harrison-Maclean Is Sure
kort Story
c Writing
tyree Usance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
, 140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
ESS
S CK
THAI
Comfort
Speed
in
£S
Moth
s
s
e
SEASICK
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
NORT OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Exit the “Daily Standard”
“El V.”: The official burial of the
“Standard,” Brisbane’s first Labor daily,
has taken place. An extraordinary meet-
ing of shareholders has backed the action
of the directors in ceasing publication.
The paper had some tough times in the
days when John Huxham, Ryan’s Home
Secretary, was on its board. Once, during
the war, a galaxy of Romani veterans, full
of corn, decorated its front with dozens
of conscription posters depicting a vil-
lainous I.W.W. man waving a bludgeon.
But its wildest night was when it was
housed in the old Adelaide-street offices
near Isles-lane. In October, 1916,
annoyed by an article, Diggers rushed
the offices late one evening. According
to the “Standard” itself:
A strong force of civil police upset the
effort, and the cowardly heroes vanished
when they were faced with some sort of
opposition. It is worth recording that the
morning conscriptionist papers had no
chronicle of the night’s disorderly pro-
ceedings.
Actually, the censorship intervened, 1
was in the middle of the row with
“Doctor” Jack Hamilton, the old-time
M. and champion shot. We had
arrived opposite the office when some-
body on an upper “D.S.” verandah—he
had no connection with the paper —fired
several shots across the street, one miss-
ing Hamilton by inches and breaking a
paling behind him. A barrage of stones
was then thrown from the roadway and
somebody neatly punctured a “Standard”
window with a bullet.
Despite these troubles, however, the
“D.S.” had its advantages in those days.
Its editor, J. V. —now Senator —Mac-
donald, was on the Labor Central Execu-
tive, and “scoops” were easy. In 1915
the “Standard” published the Budget the
day before Parliament got it. This was
a prelude to a regular day’s start with
the news of every important State war-
time and political move.
“Mulga Mick”: The Privy Council
apparently doesn’t know what “free”
means, and neither do I. Look at the
case of the Brisbane manufacturer who
has just been fined a fiver and costs. He
had “a contrivance fitted in his shop by
which employees can see when a factory
inspection is being made and disappear
by a secret door” before the Govern-
ment myrmidon arrives. If an employer
and his employees can’t agree to add a
little romance to everyday yakka by a
simple device of this sort, it seems pretty
tough. Especially as State schools, kept
up by the Government which pays the
inspector and prosecutes the trapdoor
owner, still throw glamor round the ad-
ventures of Charles 1., who had lots of
trapdoors built for him, and of Charles
11., whose feat of hiding in a hollow log
after the Battle of Worcester is still cele-
brated on May 29—the Merry Monarch’s
Birthday—each year in London, when the
Guards put on scarlet and Chelsea pen-
sioners appear as a temptation to every
bull for miles around.
❖ * s»:
“Zedo”: A Darwin police court dis-
covered a strange air pocket in the local
law in a husband-wife maintenance case.
A provisional order had been issued in
N. S. Wales, where the public is ex-
cluded from court during the hearing of
such cases. It was discovered that in
Darwin there was no provision to turn
anybody out or to stop the reporting of
what was a purely domestic matter. How-
ever, things like that are fairly easily
fixed in Darwin, where there is only one
newspaper. The local pressman agreed
not to report, and Bench and Bar de-
cided to have a word with the Adminis-
trator.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The bi-weekly mail service
between Sydney and Townsville became
an actuality this week. Mails leave Syd-
ney at 8 a.m. on Sundays and Thursdays
and Brisbane at noon. Calls will be made
at Rockhampton and Mackay, and
Townsville will be reached at 5 p.m.
Townsville mails will leave at 6.30 a.m.
on Mondays and Fridays and reach
Sydney at 4.30 p.m. Brisbane mails from
Townsville will be handed out in the
afternoon deliveries. Progress? Well,
33 years ago, when I first came from
Rockhampton to Brisbane to school, the
two towns, 380 miles apart, were not even
completely connected by railway, and the
journey from Brisbane to Townsville was
made up of several days of seasick
adventure.
"Don't go givin' ’Lijah any o' that salt beef, Andy. You know it makes
’im sick.”
“X.T.”; Two lines in a letter from
the New Guinea goldfields connect me up
again with an old friend:
N. G. Airways has a new head. One
O’Dea. He looks the goods to me, but he
never seems to have done anything much,
except to work for Holdens.
I remember Tommy O’Dea when his
’planes were the sort the enthusiast
bought in those days and tied up with the
luggage-strap so that they wouldn’t fall
to pieces. Nobody ever saw him do a
double roll or a falling leaf. If he had
tried he would have fallen to pieces. But
when Smith and Ulm came down in n.-w.
Australia and Holden in the Canberra
had found them and everybody in flying
was wondering how to get the Southern
Cross off the ground or to land beside
them, Tommy dropped down like a swal-
low on an eave in something that looked
as if it had been invented by Heath
Robinson. The big, good-natured and
capable Holden —killed in a crash on the
N.S.W. North Coast —saw the latent capi-
tal in Tommy, who now takes over the
’Guinea job and still manages the Holden
interests.
* r!= * *
“Kaloa”; It is a novelty to an old hand
who, hating many features of the Ger-
man system, still recognised its virtues
to read a leading article in the Rabaul
“Times” attacking the system under
which employers cool their heels for days
outside a solemn courthouse in which a
native is to be tried for an offence which
he does not regard as such. The
case which stirred the “R.T,” to action
involved a boy charged with “neglect
of duty.” The employer waited three
days for it to come on ; the hearing occu-
pied 2\ hours; the boy was sentenced
to seven days—the calaboose would seem
a happy home to him. The J.P. system
should operate in New Guinea, subject
to safeguards. Let any two reputable
whites or the D.O. or patrol officer deal
with any native on a plantation mis-
demeanor not actually involving theft
or injury or threat to life or property.
Introduce a rigid inspection of the
method and results and a closely-policed
system of reports. Make punishment
summary and salutary. Then it would be
possible to close an expensive court or
two in the Mandate.
“Gilbert”: William Angliss suggests
a railway from Julia Creek, on the
Townsville-Dajarra line, to the Gulf. It
is one of the most sensible railway pro-
pqsals made for a long time. All Car-
pentaria is good beef-raising country,
and the Murrays are raising sheep there.
Rivers run freely, water is plentiful. The
mineralised hills have scarcely been ex-
plored. Gulf fisheries should in time be
a tremendous’ asset. The shores grow
timbers, including sandalwood, for which
there is an unending demand in Asia. On
the shallow waters, when the big LA.
flying-boats bring the area within less
than a week of London, it should be pos-
sible to establish an oyster industry
which would supply Europe. Let any-
body laugh if he likes. The small, sweet
Australian oyster is the tastiest in the
world. ,
“Australia Jane’s’' Budget
Dr. Hedley Brown was quietly mar-
ried again last week to 1 Mrs. Tolmie,
whose first husband was an N.Q.
chemist. The newly-weds have started
housekeeping at Nundah.
Ethel Atkinson and Vera Margoliouth,
two Sydney Arts and Grafters, have a
delightful display of hand-painted china
and pottery in the old Town Hall. Aus-
tralian clay was used by the two crafts-
women, and Australian flowers and
animals are the subjects of most of their
designs.
Much interest was shown in the mar-
riage of Geoffrey Wedgwood, a direct
descendant of Josiah, of the potteries, to
Dot Whittick, a pretty Brisbane lass, at
St. Andrew’s C. of E., S. Brisbane, Arch-
deacon Stevenson, Warden of St. John’s
College, a cousin of the bridegroom, offi-
ciated, and Nell Cole was bridesmaid.
The ’moon is being spent touring N.S.W.
by car.
Over 40 debs, were at the Catholic
Ball in the City Hall, and each received
a pretty light- and dark-blue enamel
brooch before being presented to Arch-
bishop Duhig. A new idea was to give
the galleryites supper, and the cash from
the gods helped to swell the takings to a
decent amount. Over 600 dancers whirled
on the floor.
Not often in local musical history has
there been such a packed house at the
City Hall as there was for the A.B.C.
Dance Band concert, with Howard Jacobs
and Gladys Moncrieff. Enough flowers
to stock a whole street of florists’ shops
went up to Gladys,, who retains a mar-
vellously youthful purity of tone.
One of the dessert plates made for
Marie Antoinette when she became
Queen of France will be included in the
exhibition of antiques to be opened by
the Governor in the A.M.P. Buildings
on August' 10 to help the funds of the
Bush Book Club and the R.S.P.C.A.
Adelaide’s Miss Centenary, Joyce Tiet-
zel, had a good week in Brisbane, Her
hostess, Herschelle Morgan, of Lennon’s,
arranged several dinners and dances in
the guest’s honor. A civic reception
and a flight over town and Moreton Bay
were other incidents.
Many of our brightest young things
are qualifying for the title of fly-by-
nights, as their chief amusement lately
is to charter a ’plane and drone over
the sleeping city, trying to pick out the
paternal roof in the maze below.
Helen Ellenden, not quite 18 years
old, is now chief ranger of the Court
Fortitude, of the A.O.F. Her brother,
A. Ellenden, was the last chief
ranger, v and her father, a past chief
ranger, has been 25 years in the order.
Moira Quinn, daughter of the S. L.
Quinns, of .Yeerongpilly, made her debut
at a private dance given by her parents
in the Canberra Hotel palm lounge. Dur-
ing the evening, old school friends gave
her a bouquet tied with blue and white,
the colors of All Hallows’ Convent. The
decorative scheme also was in blue and
white.
President R. H. Coftam and his wife
received the guests at a dance held in
the Enoggera golfhouse, which was
gay with streamers, flags and colored
electric lights. Representatives from all
the other Brisbane golf clubs were
present, and almost everybody who was
there arranged to go along to Victoria
Park the following Friday, when the
associates were having a hop in the club-
house.
Mrs. B. Garrick, whose late husband
built Brisbane’s million-pound City Hall,
is just back from a world tour. She
was in London for the jubilee, and
motored all through England and Scot-
land. . . '
Roy Agnew and his wife were delighted
with Queensland. The two spent a day
at Lena Hammond’s Redcliffe cottage.
There were numerous pre-wedding
parties for Tommy Hope, official secre-
tary to Forgan Smith and chief clerk in
the Chief Secretary’s Department, prior to
his marriage to Ada Clifford, which took
place at Corpus Christi Church, Nundah,
on July 22. After the ceremony, Mrs.
Clifford held a reception at the National
Hotel, at which the Premier and his
wife were present.
Mrs. Basil Bergin, whose hobby is
collecting posters from all over the
world, is exhibiting them in aid of the
St. Vincent de Paul appeal fund. The
Commissioner for Railways lent the old
railway offices in George-street, and now
the walls are covered with color. School
children are arriving in droves, headed
by teachers, to look over the pictured
beauties of fufrin parts.


THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “ BABY GRAND ” All-wave
(The set that received 603 verified station:
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and l.aunch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
2SS&'
1930 A.V.C.
PENTAGKID I’OUll,
£6/5/-.
Thousands of. real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
\J
!, > .
RADIO NEWS
THE DRY BATTERY.
How It Is Made and Why It Deteriorates.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Consisting of a number of primary
cells connected together, the dry battery
is an integral part of most country re-
ceivers. Upon the condition of each cell
depends the efficiency of the receiver,
„ n j . • . • „ ~ ...
and batteries materially affect the quality
of reproduction. The cells forming the
battery are connected in series to in-
crease the voltage, and parallel connec-
tions are used to give higher capacity or
amperage
, . , ~ . ,
The simple cylindrical cell is composed
of an outer casing made of zinc, covered
on the outside with cardboard or strong
impregnated paper. The base is closed
by a disc of zinc, and the whole is
soldered together to make it acid-proof.
This container is used as one element of
the battery, having the negative terminal
attached. The inner face of the zinc
tube is lined with an absorbent material
of good-quality blotting-paper, pulp
board or a paste composition. This
paste is composed usually of plaster of
Paris, flour, sal ammoniac and a proper-
tion of zinc chloride. The latter is used to
keep the moistened solution from drying
too quickly. In some batteries this paste
is made of a gelatinous substance.
The inner base of the zinc is covered
with an insulating material, and the
walls with the paste, made sufficiently
moist with water. Blotting-paper or pulp
board is used to reduce the internal re-
sistance of the cell, although it is liable
to allow the depolarising paste to touch
the zinc. The positive terminal is a
carbon rod, which may be either cylin-
drical or fluted, moulded or cut. This
stands in the centre of the zinc case,
resting upon and surrounded by the de-
polarising paste, which is composed of
a mixture of 10 parts of manganese
dioxide, 10 parts of carbon or graphite,
two parts of sal ammoniac and one part
of zinc chloride. The composition is
packed around the carbon rod, with the
zinc case filled to within three-quarters
of an inch of the top. It is then covered
with sawdust or similar material, and
the whole sealed with pitch finished off
with a hard wax. Sometimes a small
venthole is left to permit the escape of
free gas.
When new each cell gives slightly more
than 14 volts. Series connections are
effected by joining the negative terminal
one ced positive of the next,
and 80 . on ;. The u volta f. f be whole
battery is the number of individual cells
multiplied by the voltage of one cell.
To increase the amperage or capacity,
a parallel connection is used. In this
case > all negative terminals are connected
together, and all positive terminals
joined. Usually a combination of the
two is used.
~. . . .
f When dr >; batteneB f re m use 11 1S
° en noticed, particularly when they aic
S ettin g °. Id ’ that the voltage seems to
dro P lapidly. This is due to polarisa-
tlo?‘ Owing to the internal chemical
B ener atmg the current, hydrogen
babb | e s at ® formed. These attach them-
8f ves be carbo '\ rod, and so reduce
.? sui f ace on which chemical action
p ac f ‘ . Wltb sufficient hydrogen
es ’, c^ emica l ac . lon ,s eliminated,
a f e , carb)or L-[' oc * ls lr| su ated trom the
e e^ lro *y lc - Thus no voltage is gener-
Manganese dioxide is used to clear up
the hydrogen bubbles as quickly as
they are liberated. If the battery is
allowed to remain idle for a time, the
hydrogen clears, and again the voltage
is available.
The life of a dry battery depends upon
many factors. If given continuous use
it will not give as many hours’ service as
if there were periods of inactivity. An-
other reason for short life of a battery is
the use of small capacity for large cur-
rent purposes.
Sometimes all moisture evaporates and
the cell will not function. It can be
revived by soaking a little water into the
container, but the cell ceases functioning
when either the chemical solution has
become too weak or the zinc has been
consumed. An examination of old cells
will show the container pitted with small
holes.
Thus the dry battery depends upon
chemical action to generate the current,
and its life depends upon the state of
the chemical substances. When these
have been consumed, the cell ceases to
function, but this does not happen with
a radio receiver, for a new battery is
necessary long before this stage.
D. N. L.
LICENSED EXPERIMENTERS,
New Conditions of Operation.
On 14/7/’36, a circular was issued
:o Australian licensed experimenters by
the Chief Wireless Inspector for the
Commonwealth, stating that it has been
decided to revise the conditions of work-
ing, particularly in connection with short-
wave transmissions. A somewhat un-
necessary use of telephony transmissions,
particularly music, in cases where com-
munication is only of an inter-State
character, and inefficient operating, par-
ticularly by some of the newer licensees,
have been noted, and from September I,
1936, the transmission of music on the
7000 kc, and 14,000 kc. bands will be
prohibited between the hours of 5 p.m.
and 8 a.m. local standard time, and all
other telephony transmissions will be
restricted to genuine experiments. No
session should exceed 30 minutes’ dura-
tion. Transmissions on the 7000 kc. and
14,000 kc. bands will be permitted only
where the oscillator is sufficiently con-
trolled in the case of C.W. or employs
a crystal or M.O.P.A. system of control
in the case of telephony. In addition,
all power and modulation systems em-
ployed must be of high efficiency.
Telephony transmissions on the
7000 kc. and 14,000 kc. bands must in all
cases be restricted to a power of 25
watts input to the final amplifier stage.
All new licensees will be required
to serve a probationary period of six
months. During that period a maximum
power of 25 watts (D.C. input to the
final stage) is to be permitted, but the
licensee is not to be permitted to use
telephony on any frequency during that
period. In the event of the department
not being satisfied with the operation
and general conduct of the licensee’s
station during the probationary period,
a further probationary period of three
months must be served. Each licensee
should make application to the Senior
Radio Inspector in the State concerned
for permission to use telephony should
he desire to do so on the expiration of
the probationary period.
A vigilance committee will be
appointed in each Stats by the depart-
ment. The committee will observe all
transmissions and log any experimental
station whose transmissions are contrary
to departmental regulations. The com-
mittee will issue a warning to any
licensee guilty of a breach, and, should
this warning be ignored, will supply the
department with full particulars so that
action may be taken.
The circular concludes with a re-
minder to experimenters that the new
conditions are in their own interests and
an expression of confidence that the
necessary co-operation will be forth-
coming. Also, there is a request that
licensees make access to the wireless
room available at all times for inspecting
departmental officers, and that, if absent,
the licensee will leave the key with a
responsible person.
The reorganisation of conditions was
inevitable. Because of a few blatant
offenders, all must now accept this re-
vision of conditions. With the expanded
popularity of short-wave reception gener-
ally, bands ■ reserved for experimenters
have been no unobserved stamping
ground. Ninety per cent, of the listening
public is now well familiar with the doings
of amateur transmitters—and only so by
the medium of telephony. That the privi-
lege for radio-telephonic facilities has
been increasingly abused by careless or
irresponsible individuals is indisputable.
Perusal of the new conditions will con-
vince all serious experimenters that they
are logical. It will be noted that the
department does not place undue re-
striction on telephony transmission for
experimental purposes, other than un-
necessary musical “sessions.”
The power limitation of 25 watts is
not new. It has been the regulation for
a considerable time. Where the work
justifies the application, the department
considers higher-power permits, and often
grants them, for telegraphic tests. The
experimenter never knows when he may
find himself in a situation where his
equipment can be of national service,
and if, in an emergency, he is an incom-
petent telegraphist, he is of little or no
value.
More attention should be paid by Aus-
tralian experimenters to proficiency in
Morse-code operation. The very terms
of his license demand this in any case.
Speech transmission is undoubtedly
useful in certain phases of experimenta-
tion, but for reliable emergency com-
munication over medium or long dis-
tances telegraphic working is of greater
importance. A good percentage of ex-
perimenters reveal a high standard of
proficiency as telegraphists, but many
do not, and these should make every
effort to get into line. In several cases
in earlier years the telegraphic services
of Australian amateur radio trans-
mitters were of good service to the
community, and they may be increas-
ingly so in the future.
D.B.K.
City Short-wave Diallings.
The strong station on 31.09 m. heard
after 7 a.m. every Sunday, Wednesday
and Friday is CTIAA Lisbon. It is
just below the former dial position of
2RO, with which it is apt to be con-
fused. The cause of confusion has been
intensified by the fact that the Rome
station, after changing to 25.4 m. for the
early-morning session, has been return-
ing to 31.13 m. for news in English at
8.15 a.m. Since July 15, however, it has
adhered to the wave-length of 25.4 m.
The Lisbon station may be distinguished
by a cuckoo call, which the listener will
hear if he waits long enough ; he will
also catch the announcement “Radio
Coloniale C-T-l-A-A,” in both French
and English.
One morning when CTIAA was not
scheduled, the writer heard a powerful
station in nearly the same position—
exactly on the dial-setting for .YDB, the
fine Javanese station heard in the even-
ings. The language, however, was Ger-
man, and the supposed newcomer turned
out to be a double-spot of the station
formerly known as DIQ, on 29.15 m.
This is now known as DZC and has im-
proved beyond belief. It works in con-
junction with DZH, on 20.75 m., which
is even better, and the pair are not sur-
passed by any short-wave stations in the
world for strength and quality. It may
be explained that all German trans-
mitters used for broadcasting regular
programmes to the various geographical
zones bear the initial call letters DJ ; the
transmitters used for the so-called Inter-
national Programme Exchange Service,
on the other hand, have the initial call
letters DZ. The new call signals of the
International Programme Exchange
(IP A for short; Internationaler-Pro-
gramm-Austausch in German), with
their frequencies, are as follows: 9675 kc.,
DZA (formerly DJI); 10042 kc., DZB
(formerly DJJ); 10,290 kc., DZC (for-
merly DIQ); 12,130 kc., DZE (formerly
DJS); 14,460 kc., DZH ; 15,360 kc., DZG
(formerly DJT).
One is so accustomed to the familiar
voice of the Frenchman announcer from
TPA4 that it came as a surprise to hear
an American speaking. The occasion
,was the morning of July 15, and the
American was giving a commentary on
what was happening at the Place de la
Bastille during the celebrations of the
French national fete day,
A new Spanish-speaking station, an-
nouncing (it would seem) from Havana,
Cuba, is now heard on about 30.9 m. It
opens strongly at 10 p.m., but gradually
An example of modern amateur station
design in a small space — WBAF, located
in Detroit, Michigan ( U.S.A. ). The two
valves above the shielded power trans-
former at the base of the panel assembly
are mercury-vapor rectifiers. The receiver
at the control position is a Patterson
PRIO all-wave superhet.
weakens until, by 11 p.m., it is barely
readable. There is a little music from
time to time, but the programme con-
sists mostly of talk by an announcer with
a rich, deep, vibrant voice. There are a
few peculiarities. Every quarter of an
hour one hears two chimes, and at half-
hourly intervals a bugle is sounded. A
puzzling feature is the soft, low, mocking
laughter heard in the background occa-
sionally. Is it the voice of a girl or


RADIO”
The progressive radio publication
for the short-wave experimenter.
Subscription now reduced to 16/6
per year, acceptable at “The Bulletin 1 ’
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“RADIO” is published monthly in
Los Angeles (U.S.A.) under date
as of the following month; ten issues
yearly, , including special annual
number; the August and September
issues (which would normally
appear in July and August) are
omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers
direct from U.S.A.
Read “RADIO” regularly and keep
in advance of the times.
Forthcoming Constructional
Articles.
Several new ideas in receivers and acces-
sories have been developed, and the fol-
lowing will be described in the near
future:
The Autotune Aerial Coupler for use on
short waves. No plug-in coils to change,
and effective aerial tuning between 10,
and 80 metres.
The Companion Portable, a remarkable
two-valve headphone receiver, covering
short waves and broadcast, using three
volts of dry-cell power for filaments and
18 volts (two nine-volt C batteries) for
plate voltage. Circuit contains no fixed
condensers or resistors. The most eco-
nomical portable yet designed.
The Tropical Twin, a special model of
the popular Little Twin, for use in
tropical climates.
The Highgainer All-wave Superhet, a ile
luxe regenerative iron-cored superhet,
covering 10 to 800 metres, with continu-
ous bandspread.
RADIOTRQNS
ALL METAL” OR “GLASS”-A VALVE FOR EVERY REQUIREMENT
Radiotrons IC4 and ID4 give greater efficiency and
economy in battery consumption.
Insist on your receiver being equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
fd
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
(Advertisement ot Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited).
(may the alternative be forgiven) a rather
clever bird?
A few minutes after 1 p.m. every
Sunday HJIABP Cartagena, Colombia,
may be heard on 31.25 m. Announce-
ments are in English as well as Spanish,
but rather faint.
Conditions have deteriorated on the
20m. band, and there has been a conse-
quent migration of amateurs to the 80m.
band, where the best conditions obtain.
Maorilanders throng this part of the dial,
and so powerful is the reception that in
order to keep some of the signals down
to reasonable strength the gain must be
reduced below that required even for
VK2ME.
Many long-wave listeners had the
opportunity of hearing, through 2BL, the
two-way international broadcast on
July 8 between the United States and
Australia, when little Kelvin Rodgers
(the youngster who had a nail in his lung)
and his mother, speaking from the
studios of KYW Philadelphia, had a con-
versation with Mr. Rodgers at Mel-
bourne. Short-wave listeners not only
heard this broadcast through W2XAF
Schenectady and VK2ME Sydney, but
were taken, so to speak, behind the
scenes and were privileged to hear the
arrangements between these stations
being perfected to the smallest detail
and the introductory remarks of the
American announcer carefully rehearsed.
They were thus prepared, a quarter of
an hour before the actual broadcast, for
the word-pictures describing Kelvin’s
actions at various stages of the proceed-
ings: “At present he is tugging at my
coat-tails.” “1 am sitting on a chair with
Kelvin on my knees, looking down and
playing with a bunch of keys, listening
to everything you say.” “Now we have
a young American chap, eight years of
age, presenting Kelvin with a baseball
bat.” Kelvin himself, very tired and
probably bored, had little to say, and
one must admire the ingenuity with
which Mr. Begley contrived to make the
incident fill a quarter of an hour of
crowded air-time. VK2ME is frequently
in communication with W2XAF, and an
exchange of pleasantries is usually heard.
A few days before the broadcast just
mentioned, Kelvin and his mother had
been heard from Schenectady in a less
formal contact. Kelvin gave a coo-ee to
his daddy, and a touch of realism was
added by the rattling in a tin of the
actual nail that had been removed from
the child’s lungs. The man at the other
end did not leave us unscathed. He
pointed out that the Americans did not
even charge customs duty on the nail
to enter the United States, and expressed
the hope that Kelvin’s fellow-country-
ment would “curb any ostrich- or emu-
like craving for ironware, as we won’t
have enough American ships to carry
you all from Australia.”
At 5.30 p.m. on 18/7/’36 HJIABE
Cartagena, Colombia, was heard in a
transmission stated to be the first from
a Ikw. transmitter. The station was
operating on 9500 kc. (31.58 m.), and for-
merly operated on 6115 kc. (49m.). Re-
ports were requested; the address is
P.O. Box 31, Cartagena, Republic of
Colombia, South America. At the con-
clusion, this station was calling “CQ
20-metre ’phone,” but apparently with-
out success. Strength was very good and
100 p.c. copyable. After calling CQ the
speaker announced very naively, “We
have a very good antenna to receive your
signals.”
P.R.W.
Amateur Chatter.
Of exceptional interest is an item of
news from E. B. Ferguson, of Hazel-
brook, Blue Mountains, N.S.W., who, in
the course of occasional listening on the
five-metre band, reports hearing VK4AW,
of Nundah, Queensland. Confirmation
is awaited from the Queenslander. The
report is one which can be taken seri-
ously, as Ferguson’s experience with
ultra-short-wave equipment is extensive.
He was responsible for the excellent
co-operation which in 1934-35 demon-
strated the fact that the terrain be-
tween Mount Victoria and Sydney is
an easy and certain one for ultra-short-
wave propagation. His location at Hazel-
brook is at a high elevation, and with
his various beam receiving aerials it is
quite possible that distant signals would
be heard there much more easily than on
the coast. He has not been actively en-
gaged in transmission for some months,
and his work lately has been confined to
tests with a visual radio-compass. This
used a pair of thirties on around 3i
metres with a parabolic system shooting
a narrow beam no more than three
degrees each side of the horizontal maxi-
mum field. The gain with this is at least
12db. No definite reports are to hand
of actual DX communication in Aus-
tralia on five metres, but VK3ML reports
covering 120 miles during a recent field
day in Victoria. Several Victorians are
attempting to get into contact with
Americans at week-ends, and carriers
have been reported heard, but these are
attributed to harmonics from 10 metres.
It is anticipated that there will be a big
wave of activity on ultra-shorts in Aus-
tralia for many reasons.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
Ultra-short waves of the order of four
and five metres are to be used for a new
radio-telephony link between England
and the Channel Islands. Three separate
and distinct circuits will be used in the
system.
; i : * * H:
Two hundred and eighty microphones,
5000 miles of twin cable, 1500 miles of
wire, 10,000 plug sockets and 580 engi-
neers will be needed for broadcasting
commentaries and eyewitness descrip-
tions from the Olympic Games in Ber-
lin next month. During the period Ger-
man amateur transmitters are to hold a
DX contest, with awards for entrants
who work the greatest number of long-
distance stations.
Latest in the Trade.
The 1936 Radio Trade Annual of
Australia is a comprehensive encyclo-
paedia of everything dealing with ad-
ministrative and technical aspects of the
Australian radio industry, and no
trader or manufacturer can afford to be
without if. This is the fourth year of
publication, and this 1936 issue is even
larger and more complete than the pre-
vious issues. The technical section alone
occupies 150 pages, and includes articles
on electricity supply voltages in Aus-
tralia, measuring instruments, aerial sys-
tems, power supply for country radio
receivers, loud-speakers, R.F. resistors,
reactance of condensers, reactance of in-
ductances, recent circuit developments
and short-wave reception, together with
many useful tables. A complete direc-
tory of manufacturers is given ; also sec-
tions dealing with trade-names, radio
magazines, textbooks, who’s who in
radio, specifications and retail prices of
receivers, pictorial parade of cabinet de-
signs, and a host of general information
covering such subjects as tariffs, patents,
Acts and regulations, broadcast stations
and institutions and societies. Radio
Trade Annual of Australia is edited by
O. F. Mingay, of Australian Radio
Publications, Ltd., 30-32 Carrington-
street, Sydney, and the price, 155., in-
includes also a year's subscription to the
“Radio Retailer.”
“Bulletin” Test Review.
( Manufacturer’s products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Tasma 365 Dual-wave All-electric
Superhet.
The latest receiver to be submitted to
this Page for test by the laboratories of
Thom and Smith, makers of Tasma radio
wares, is a dual-wave A.C. superhetero-
TASMA 365 dual-wave A.C. superhet.
Uses 6A7, 6D6, 75, 42 and 80 valves.
Price £29 15s.
dyne, in the cabinet as illustrated. This
is a five-valve model with all the sound
workmanship of Tasma engineering, sell-
ing at £29 15s. The valve combination
includes a 6A7 as frequency changer,
6D6 intermediate frequency amplifier at
470 kilocycles, 75 diode detector with
automatic volume control, and 42 pen-
tode audio amplifier. The rectifier is a
type 80. The A.V.C. action is applied
to the first two valves, and is particularly
effective. Wave-range is consistent with
the usual dual-wave arrangement of from
18 to 50 and 200 to 550 metres.
As with all the Tasma models for this
year, the circuit includes the highly-
efficient Ferrocoil intermediate frequency
transformers. There is little need to
stress the importance of this iron-core
feature, this Page having dealt amply
with its advantages. The net result of
well-designed iron-core I.F.Ts. is selec-
tivity of an unusually high degree and
an extremely low noise level. Four con-
trols are fitted, these being wave-change
switch which combines also as a local
distance switch, the tuning control,
volume control and tone control,
A pleasing feature about the cabinet is
that the slope of the control panel
is not overdone. It is an advantage to
be able to reach and see the dial and con-
trols of a receiver seated. The dial fitted
to all Tasma receivers is of generous pro-
portions, and of the circular or “aero”
type, and fitted with a smaller indi-
cator to give optical ease of tuning for
the short waves. Although this method
is not an actual vernier reduction in pro-
portion to the actual tuning speed of the
control, the effect is there, added to
which, the motion drive of the Tasma
dial is particularly large in diameter,
giving a reduction ratio which is neither
100 slow for broadcast nor too fast for
short waves. The positions of the main
broadcast stations and short-wave
channels are clearly marked and cali-
brated in metres. Checked against
known frequency standards, the calibra-
tion on both ranges proved to be highly
accurate. The whole dial is floodlit.
All vital parts of the circuit, such as
coil, chokes, transformers, etc., are
vacuum impregnated to ensure freedom
from trouble in tropical climates. The
performance of this receiver is enhanced
by the very noticeably low noise level,
which is to be expected in this combina-
tion of four valves in the R.F. circuits,
plus Ferrocoil intermediates. The choice
of an aerial depends to some extent
upon the locality, and, used with a long
and well-elevated aerial in proximity to
2BL, there was no evidence of the super-
imposed whistles often encountered in
receivers using no pre-tuning before the
frequency changer. Sensitivity is suffi-
cient for use with the average indoor
aerial, and even with the heavy input
load imposed from the big aerial the
selectivity is such that the local station
does not overshadow adjacent channels.
Tasma model 365 is now available from
radio dealers in all metropolitan and
country districts.
The Q. and A. Column.
I am well satisfied with the performance of
my Improved Wide-World Two (B. 21/8/’35),
but would like to be able to bring in the
weaker overseas stations on the loudspeaker.
It seems I have the choice of the following:
(a) Replacing the 76 with a pentode; (b)
adding an audio frequency pentode to the set
as it stands; (c) adding a stage of Class-B
audio amplification. Which is preferable? —•
454.
Suggestion (b) is to be preferred; a suitable
pentode in the interests of economy will be
either type 38 or 41. Class B would give very
little gain in this instance unless two extra
valves were added.


LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORT WORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT .is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small high-
p r e s sure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
less Gauge
5 1 " extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ u/ith a
RENRUT
aUA DFLU PL£
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sbeflield,
England.
"SILVER
EDGE* 9
tfauJUbtfo,
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND,
Factory Rep,: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
THE NEW 10-H.P. ENGLISH FORD
DE LUXE.
EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE OVER TEST COURSE.
BY FRED BERRY.
WHEN the question of buying a motor-car crops up the
motorist must decide whether he is content with 15 to
20 m.p.g. petrol consumption with the attendant riding comfort
and cost of operating a heavy car, or whether he would prefer
with reasonable comfort, transport for, say, four adults,
a fuel consumption of 30-40 m.p.g. and a correspondingly
reduced cost in tyres and depreciation. Obviously it is impos-
sible to secure a car with maximum comfort and roadworthiness
combined with extremely low running costs, but a compromise
can be effected. For those content with reasonable road per-
formance and comfort coupled with low operating costs and
splendid fuel consumption figures, the English-built 10-h.p.
Ford De Luxe sedan, tested recently over the “Bulletin” course,
x worthy of very careful consideration.
Manufactured wholly in England and
incorporating the best features of both
English and American automobile prac-
tice, the car is of robust construction, is
of proved reliability, can be expected to
be free from service worries and can
transport four adults over main roads at
an average touring speed of 30 to 35
m.p.b. with a petrol consumption of
from 35 to 45 m.p.g., depending on the
skill of the driver.
Although the engine is rated at only
10 h.p., the cubic capacity, 1172 c.c., be-
ing less than that of many big twin-
cylinder motor cycles, this highly-efficient
four-cylinder engine, with a bore and
stroke of 63.5 inT.m. and 92.5 m.m.
respectively, develops 32 b.h.p. at 4000
r.p.m. with a compression ratio of 6.6
to 1.
The engine is suspended in the frame
on rubber cushions —two in front, one
on each side of the sump—while, in
addition, a wide rubber pad, bonded with
metal housing, is located under the gear-
box. Cylinder heads are detachable, the
cylinder block being cast integral with
the upper half of the crankcase. Sturdy
lateral ribs serve as supports for the
main bearings. The sump is of pressed
steel. Pistons are of T slot aluminium
alloy, cam ground to conform with
cylinder bores at high operating tempera-
tures and fitted with two compression
rings and one oil retaining ring above
the gudgeon pin. Gudgeon pins are
lightweight, hollow, case-hardened steel,
floating in little-end bearing and piston
boss and located by spring steel circlips.
Lower half of distributor head, with
cover removed, showing contact-breaker
assembly and ignition adjustment index.
Connecting rods are I section steel forg-
ings, matched in weight, big ends being
babbitt-lined. The steel-forged crank-
shaft, running on three main bearings, is
balanced statically and dynamically and
fitted with integral counterweights.
The camshaft runs on three bearings,
line-bored integral with the upper half
The 10-h.p. De Luxe Ford tested recently, demonstrating handiness when
parking in restricted spaces.
of the crankcase. The drive from crank-
shaft to camshaft is through a train of
gears, crankshaft pinion of steel and
camshaft pinion of compressed fibre, pro-
viding an efficient drive with minimum
noise. Both gear wheels are plainly
marked to avoid errors in valve timing
when reassembling after overhaul.
Side-by-side valves are fitted, exhaust
and inlet of special Ford steels, designed
to avoid wear or distortion. Valve
stems are mushroom type, without pro-
vision for adjustment, and designed to
operate for long periods without neces-
sity for attention. Valve springs are
positioned by collars fitting over ex-
panded (mushroom) end of stem. Valve
guides are replaceable, being made in
halves of cast-iron.
Particular attention has been given to
the cooling of the motor, the cylinder
block being deeply cored. Cooling water
is circulated on the thermo-siphon prin-
ciple, which, when
correctly designed,
as in this instance,
effects a definite
saving without low-
ering efficiency by
eliminating power
losses incurred in
driving the water
impellor or pump.
Fuel is carried
in a pressed-steel
tank at rear, capa-
city imperial
gallons, and is
drawn by means of
a mechanical pump
located on the
near side of the
engine and driven
by an eccentric
from the camshaft
to a special Ford-type down-draught
carburettor.
The carburettor is entirely automatic
in action, assuring a correctly balanced
fuel-air ratio at all speeds. Main, com-
pensating and slow-running jets are pro-
vided with screwdriver slots to facilitate
removal for cleaning purposes, or in cases
where the driver seeks to vary power or
economy from that given by standard jet
sizes.
A special starting device, controlled
from instrument panel, is fitted to enable
a certain start in cold weather, while
at the same time preventing liquid fuel
from being drawn into the cylinders and
increasing crankcase dilution of lubricat-
ing oil.
The lubrication system is of full-pres-
sure type, oil being drawn from the sump
by a submerged gear-type pump and fed
to main, connecting rod and camshaft
bearings via ducts cast in the cylinder
block and drilled in the crankshaft.
Gudgeon pins, pistons and cylinder walls
are splash lubricated.
Electric equipment is single wire six-
Simple and effective ventilating system applied to front
windows of closed models.
volt type, the positive terminal of the
battery (located under engine bonnet) be-
ing grounded. The generator, of third-
brush type, driven by a flexible rubber
belt, is mounted at the front of the
engine on top of the cylinder block, and
may be raised or lowered to adjust ten-
sion of drive. Normal charging rate is
10 amps. Starter motor, with Bendix
drive, is mounted on the off side of the
motor. Ignition is by coil and battery,
with automatic advance and retard of
spark incorporated in the distributor.
Firing order is 1,2, 4, 3.
Transmission is through a Ford-type
single plate dry disc clutch, with fixed
adjustment for tension, to a three-
speed-and-reversc gearbox with cen-
tral ball change speed lever.
Top and second gears are heli-
cal cut synchromesh type, low and
reverse pinions being straight-cut
spur gears. Final drive is
through an enclosed torque
tube, a single totally enclosed
metal universal joint being
fitted on the front end of
propeller shaft. Radius
rods from rear axle
casing to torque tube
absorb driving
stresses. Rear axle, in
pressed-steel housing,
is three-quarter-float-
ing type, the load
being carried on the
axle housings, thus
freeing the axle shafts
of all stresses other
than actual transmission •of power.
Crown wheel and pinion are spiral
bevel drive ; reduction ratio is 5.5 to 1.
Safety-glass window is adjustable, the
actuating movement, on the “lazy-tongs ”
principle, being located in the centre of
the instrument panel.


USEFUL DATA ON FORD
10-H.F.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in
24 3-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top in 11 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
second in 6 3-5 seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 26ft.
Maximum speed, 60.2 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 37.4 m.p.g.
Two years' unremitting research produces Uulor's latest achievement . .
a 100% Australian-made axle equal in every respect to the world's best.
CHECK THESE DUFOR FEATURES.
1. All Tapers and Bearing Surfaces are machined lo precision limits to standards set by car
manufacturers.
2. Genuine Dufor Axles are Brinell tested and stamped with the DUFOR trade mark.
3. Material used is a high-grade Chrome Nickel Axle to S.A.E. Specifications 3140.
4. Dufor axles are heat treated to a tensile strength of 65 tons.
5. The accurate finish of every Dufor Axle insures ease of fitting with a minimum of time
and labour.
8. Dufor Splines are machined to recognised standard, with a tolerance of .002.
DULY & HANSFORD LTD.
MARRICKVIL L E. N . S .W.
DUFOR
AXLES
Chassis is of double drop design, with
side members outswept to conform to
body profile. Radius rods are fitted front
and rear. Wheelbase is 90in.; wheel
track, 45in. ; ground clearance, S^in.
Cross section of four-cylinder motor, showing disposition of
component parts.
Suspension is Ford type, transverse
springs front and rear, in conjunction
with double-acting hydraulic shock-
absorbers on all four wheels. Spring
hangers are steel bushed and fitted with
pressure-gun lubrication.
Steering is worm-and-nut type, reduc-
tion ratio in box being 10 to 1, Pro-
vision is made for adjustment for wear.
Turning circle, 33ft.
Braking system is of the four-wheel
internal expanding type, mechanically
operated by foot-brake pedal. Individual
adjustment on each wheel is made by
means of a screw on each housing plate.
The hand brake operates brake shoes on
the rear wheels through independent
linkage.
The body is of all-steel unit construc-
tion, front seats of bucket type being
capable of adjustment individually for
driving position. Speedometer, fuel-gauge
and ammeter are fitted to the instrument
panel immediately in front of the steer-
ing wheel. Adequate provision is made
for ventilation both on windows and
cowl of closed models.
The car tested was a De Luxe sedan
driven by G. Clifton, of Hastings Deer-
ing, Ltd., Sydney, metropolitan distribu-
tors, and weighed, with driver and
observer and full fuel tank, 19cwt.
(registered weight 16cwt.). As would be
expected when driving a narrow-track,
short-wheelbase car, traffic problems
were rendered absurdly simple, the pilot
wriggling through the maze of vehicles
during peak-hour traffic in the city in a
most nonchalant fashion. As a result
good time was made to Parramatta with-
out ever exceeding 40 m.p.h.
Owing to the high compression used in
the little four-cylinder motor the trans-
mission is slightly rough below 20 m.p.h.
After this stage the motor smooths out,
and at 40 m.p.h.—incidentally the best
cruising speed —vibration has practically
disappeared.
On the open road all main road hills
were negotiated in top, and on the diffi-
cult country section through Grose Vale
intermediate gears were not used —an ex-
cellent pulling effort for a motor of these
dimensions.
Test of freedom of transmission details
resulted in a distance of 628 yards being
coasted from a speed of 15 m.p.h. Maxi-
mum speed, clocked over a measured
mile with flying start, was 60.2 m.p.h.;
time taken being 59 4-ssec.
A standing-start climb of the final
2 1-5 miles of Kurrajong Mountain
occupied 4min. 35sec., second and top
gears being used throughout. Although
this time is very good for a 10-h.p. stock
sedan, yet, had the shock-absorbers been
more carefully adjusted before the test,
faster times could
have been made on
the many difficult
bends.
Returning down the
mountain the emer-
gency hand brake was
tested with satisfac-
tory results, and on a
level tarred surface
the service brakes
stopped the car from
25 m.p.h. in 26ft., a
fair performance.
In slow running in
top gear the time
taken for 350 yards
(Imin. 50sec.) aver-
aged 6.5 m.p.h. Ac-
celerating over a simi-
lar distance the little
outfit showed a fine
turn of speed, cross-
ing the line at 50
m.p.h., clocking 18
l-ssec. and averaging
39.5 m.p.h. From 10
to 30 m.p.h. in top
occupied 11 l-ssec. ;
10 to 30 m.p.h. in
second, 6 3-ssec. ;
standing start to 50
m.p.h., 24 3-ssec.
These times indicate
quite snappy road per-
formance.
For the total jour-
ney of 117 miles 3
gallons 1 quart of fuel was consumed,
showing an average of 37.4 m.p.g. (35.5
ton miles), an excellent result when it is
considered that an average speed of 33.2
m.p.h. was maintained throughout the
test.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
A.S.S. (Burrell Lake, N.S.W.). — What is the
cause of the trouble I am having with my four-
cylinder ’34 model utility truck? Starting from
cold it will fire a couple of times, then cough
and stop. Even on the road when normal
running heat is reached one needs to use the
choke when accelerating or the motor will
splutter and miss. Have checked for faults in
fuel line, pump and carburettor, but everything
seems in order , ■
Suggest first making a careful inspection of
induction manifold, carburettor and valve
guides for air leaks. If this is unsuccessful,
have coil and distributor in ignition system
tested and valve clearances checked.
* * *
T.R.B. (Ora Banda, W.A.).—(l) What is the
correct clearance for valves on my four-cylinder
motor ? (2) How can 1 adjust choke to get
best petrol consumption? (3) Petrol tank of
my motor-cycle has a lot of rust in it. Best
way to get it out? (4) My motor-cycle will
do about 45 m.p.h., and I desire more speed,
Back-wheel drive sprocket has 57 teeth. What
size should a smaller sprocket be to get an-
other 10 m.p.h. ?
(1) Six thou, inlets and eight thou, ex-
haust when engine is hot. (2) Choke should
be in fully opened position when engine is run-
ning normally, and should never be closed
save when starting up from cold. If you
find it necessary to use the choke in running,
look for air leaks in induction system. (3)
Only certain method is to dismantle tank,
sweat seam and open up. After cleaning,
carefully resolder tank again. Wash tank out
several times with boiling water before using
soldering iron and keep away from naked
flames. (4) Cannot say, as deviation from
standard gearing, whether in a higher or lower
ratio, may involve a lowering of maximum
speed instead of increase.
* * * *
A.L.D. (Tamworth, N.S.W.).—/ intend in-
stalling a radio set in my ’36 Plymouth. Are
there any special precautions to observe in
order to get maximum distance and minimum
of noise ?
Yes. Factory instructions for Chrysler pro-
ducts, including Chrysler Airstream, Dc Soto
Airstream, Dodge and Plymouth are identical,
and are as follows: Aerial-lead shielding should
be pushed up the front pillar over lead-in wire
about six inches. Shield pigtail should be
earthed to cowl panel. Generator condenser
should be mounted on generator frame under
relay screw. Connect a condenser to dome-
li<Bt lead as near entry to pillar as possible,
This connection must be soldered and taped,
Another condenser should be mounted on
bottom edge of instrument panel and .con-
netted to one of ammeter terminals ■or ignition
switch. Next ground the steering column to
dash. There will be found a Bole for a fan.
self-tapping screw m the steering column near
the dash opening seal. Scrape away all paint
and, using a bare stranded wire with two eye
terminals, place one terminal under one of the
screws holding steering-column dash seal in
position. The other end must be fastened to
steering with a No. 8 im. self-tapping screw;
anything longer will bind on the inner steering
column, and possibly cut a groove and weaken
the shaft. Earth the speedometer cable, oil
line and temperature indicator tube where they
enter the dash, using No. 14 bare stranded
wire, and using as a ground one of the grom-
met cap screws. Spring steel “static collectors”
fitted between hub caps of wheels and axle
shafts will also be worthy of attention, as
smooth reception will then be assured when
tuning in to weak or distant stations.
* „ F . * , *
A.D. (Yenda, N.S.W.).— I intend to convert
my ’2B Cowley from magneto to coil-and-bat-
tery ignition. Where could I obtain detailed
instructions how to carry out the job ?
Write works manager, York Motors Pty.,
Ltd., Barker-street, Sydney,
* , * _ . * , * ,
D.ON. (Blackall, Q.).—T/ic electric petrol
gauge fitted to my ’36 model car has never
given a steady reading, the needle moving
about in an erratic manner whenever the car
is in motion. Any remedy ?
Erratic readings are due to faulty connec-
tions.. Suggest examining first the dash gauge
connections near the tank. Clean well, and,
after adding a drop of solder, tape the entire
assembly to prevent accumulation of foreign
matter.
■ * ■ • * * *
E.S. (Hawthorn, Vic.).—Mr ’33 model six-
cylinder, car (28,000 miles) is becoming increas-
ingly difficult to start whether the engine is
hot or cold if left standing for more than a
few minutes. Ignition system has been care-
fully checked, fuel pump overhauled and fuel
lines and filters thoroughly cleaned, yet there
is an intermittent shortage of fuel. Cause and
cure?
Symptoms indicate that the flexible hose be-
tween fuel line and pump has developed a
crack which, while small enough to let fuel
through when the motor is running, will cause
either an air lock or starvation when the engine
is turned slowly by starter. Suggest fitting
a new flexible line between pump and petrol pipe.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS! —
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO..
233 Collins Street, Melbourne. Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News. Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 04-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
IKT
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Duilding, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
V
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
ppSjg
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering' Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Westralia’s
Happy Station
On its neiv power of 1000
watts is a welcome guest
in every Western radio
home. A sales medium for
every advertiser in Aus-
tralia.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
that nothing short of a miracle could transport every
packbag to its appointed horse, each saddle to its
rightful back, and each of the disorderly-looking band
of stockboys to his accustomed mount.
But it all came about by degrees and entirely
without the intervention of the miraculous.
The horses were fat and
sleek and fresh from their
protracted holiday, and for
the most part actively ob-
jected to the idea of starting
work again. The boys gave
them their heads. They
raced them across the plain,
past the homestead to the
gate, and turned them back
again to the yard, where all
their kickings and rearings
and writhings proved ineffec-
tual in ridding them of the
lithe, tenacious dark riders
who had been bred to the
saddle, and were well ac-
quainted with all the tricks
and wiles of horses fresh
from green feed.
Young Peter was riding
an outlaw colt to the admira-
tion of the lubras and picca-
ninnies who hung over the
rails of the house enclosure,
work being suspended indefi-
nitely.
Mundee, with a length of
emerald-green ribbon stream-
ing from his hat, galloped a
pretty bay filly about the flat, cheered on by his small
son, who bestrode the rails of the fence, wildly waving
a stockwhip until he became hopelessly entangled
in its coils.
Gwennie had climbed into a saddle that had been
flung across the fence, and was doing her own little
bit of buckjumping-riding.
Alec, looking more civilised now in his stock-
man’s outfit, was vigorously adjusting the last of the
packs.- The manager regarded him dubiously.
Jingbee, gloriously self-important and grown-up,
gazed down upon Chunuma from the Olympian
heights of a creamy pony.
“By-an’-bye me learn’m you how to crack’m
stockwhip properly,” he said condescendingly. “Like
this.” He raised his whip and brought it down with
a professional jerk of the wrist, producing, neverthe-
less, disappointingly little sound.
“Can’t crack’m properly here,” he said; “too
much frighten’m my horse —make’m buck.”
“Buck nothin’!” said Gwennie, rising up behind
and delivering a resounding smack on the pony’s
flank with the palm of her hand. The pony’s flank
responded with no more than a bored quiver of a
muscle as though a tedious fly had alighted thereon.
“You get away!” Jingbee shouted indignantly.
“Flyin’ Fox can kick all right, on’y I bin hard-work
longa ’im, make’rn quiet pfeller.”
Eventually all was ready, and the procession
trailed off towards the gate to the brisk accompani-
ment of the hobble chains about the necks of thirty
packhorses and mules, and the dull sound of many
hooves on the dusty ground.
At the end of the billabong the riders turned and
waved, clear-cut against the blue of the morning hills
and the shimmering yellow grass. And so the little
house on the flat, except for Chunuma and little
Georgie, became for a few weeks an entirely feminine
abode.
THE men had been away no longer than a fortnight
when Joondree disappeared. Presumably- she had
left in the night, though no one had seen her go.
It was ironing day, wherefore the consternation
among the house staff was considerable, for Gwennie
had been right in her assertion that her mother could
“iron like a Chinaman.” Since coming to the home-
stead Joondree had gone about her work with an
expression of obvious contentment and amiability,
wherefore her sudden departure was a matter of
general surprise.
The mystery, however, was soon solved.
Next evening, after sundown, a distrait and be-
draggled figure appeared on the homestead verandah.
“That Alec bin steal’m me!” the apparition that
was Joondree explained to her two white missuses.
“ ’lm bin come longa my humpy last night. ’lm bin
talk ‘you get up now, and s’pos'm you sing out me
put’m spear longa you heart.’ So me get up and ’im
take me longa river. Then ’im belt'm me, reckon me
all day look longa Peter. You look my head!”
She took off the
handkerchief to exhibit
with some satisfaction a
gash in her forehead that
would have sent a white
woman to bed.
“Then just now,”
Jo on dree continued,
“when ’im not lookin’, 1
bin crack’m hard pfeller
longa nulla-nulla. Tm
sleep now.”
The white women,
reluctant to be mixed up
in any of the blacks'
domestic quarrels, suc-
cumbed finally to Joon-
dree’s appeal that she
be allowed to sleep at the house with her picca-
ninnies.
“S’pose’m me slop longa camp,” she insisted,
“ ’im kill’m me all right. Ebery time where big-pfeller
moon come up ’im go mad like this, wanna take’m
me an’ clear out somewhere longa bush.”
And so Joondree brought up her swag and her
two piccaninnies and established herself at the house
for the night.
Gwennie thought it all tremendous fun.
“Where you gun, missus?” she inquired ; “you
wanna keep’m
close up to-night.
My n o-g oo d
father gonna
sneak up longa
house when ’im
don’t find Joon-
dree longa camp.”
It was almost
midnight when
the excitement
began. It started
with a furious
barking of the
camp dogs, fol-
lowed by the ner-
vous shouting of
the lubras, punc-
tuated by an oc-
casional guttural
male voice.
The tumult
grew louder and
nearer. Fpur half-
naked forms slunk
past the house,
fully visible in
the moonlight.
Alec had evidently brought some of his
friends along to assist him in the recovery of his
wife.
Little Georgie whimpered. His mother hushed
him into silence. Gwennie, lest any doubt be left
in her father’s mind as to the whereabouts of his
Joondree, gave a little excited squeal.
There was a shuffling sound under the house
and the noise of something scraping underneath the
floorboards.
“Missus! Alec underneath longa house, now!”
Gwennie shrilled. “I bin find’m gun boss all day
use’m b’longta shoot’m bullock. You want ’im?”
The latter part of her speech was delivered
through a crack in the floorboards.
Alec, however, was not waiting to see whether
Gwennie’s “missus” wanted the gun or not. There
was another furtive shuffling sound, some throaty
whisperings, and four figures emerged from the dark-
ness and ran.
Alec’s desperate
plan of intimidation
had failed ; but, no-
thing daunted, for
the next week until
the camp came
home again he persevered on subsequent occa-
sions, venturing no further than to cause a nightly
disturbance in the camp.
The procedure became so monotonous, indeed,
that even the bone of contention herself slept soundly
through it all.
More Abo. Sketches from “Chunuma” next week.


/
/
t.
i
a
/
W/
'//
mm
K
V.
k
/
mi
m
\
&
a
m
vA-
I
n
//
Ofe is splendid fun when you
are fit. You feel happy and want
others to be happy also. On the
other hand, the person with a
sluggish liver and a system
poisoned through constipation is
generally sick and tired of every-
thing, thus showing how the condi-
tion of the liver, which plays an
important part in regulating the
bowels, influences one’s outlook on
life.
As a medicine for stirring the liver and regulating
the bowels, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are held in
the highest regard by thousands who have used them
with the utmost satisfaction.
Dr. Horses
PILL
Jk
They Make You Fed Brighter
WORMS
Dangerous Parasites Cause
Havoc in the System
Worms are parasites. That is, they live in
the body by absorbing digested food intended
to nourish the body. The two commonest types
of worms found in human beings are Thread
Worms, and Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat Worms or
Pin Worms) are most common. They are
about one-quarter inch long, resembling a piece
of thread. They live in the lower bowel in
considerable numbers, particularly in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach Worms)
are frequently found in humans, both adults
and children. They resemble earth worms in
shape and may grow to a length of twelve
inches. They inhabit the small intestines, but
may occasionally get into the stomach and be
vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them
form a tangled mass and impede the intestines.
All worms breed rapidly. Their eggs are con-
tinually discharged in the waste matter and
may infect others. These eggs may be carried
by flies, on the hair of household pets, in raw
food, in drinking water or merely by contact
with earth in which they lie.
Symptoms.—-The symptoms of worm infec-
tion are many and often obscure. Itching of the
nose is one of the most common indications
of pin worms. Round worms may cause nausea,
upset or swollen stomach, desire to vomit,
j voracious appetite and craving for strange
; foods. Either type may result in diarrhoea,
restless sleep, grinding teeth, a bluish look
about the eyes, nervousness and irritability,
jin children convulsions sometimes occur. The
I danger to the person infected by worms is not
so much in the symptoms themselves as in
certain results which may follow. The continual
irritation of the digestive tract may cause
a number of digestive disorders. The strain
on the nervous system may also bring more
serious trouble. The general vitality is
lowered, the patient feels tired and weak,
he natural safeguards of the body against
disease are lowered and grave ailments may
be contracted.
Many physicians now believe that worms
I are often a cause of appendicitis. It is
I certain that worms are sometimes found in
| the appendix.
Treatment. —Tor home treatment it is best
to use a specific medicine which will kill or
stupefy the worms and follow it with a laxa-
tive so that the worms and eggs will be ex-
pelled in the waste matter. Several treatments
should be taken to ensure that any eggs which
may remain will not start the trouble anew.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
made for just one purpose—to promote the
destruction of round and pin worms. A Specific
Medicine, they act on the worms only, and
can be given in cases where the presence of
worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price
2/- per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
MIRPIL
Lotion.
In addition to its excellent cooling and
soothing properties in cases of Windburn and
Sunburn, Mirpil has many other uses.
Smeared on the face and hands, it keeps
away mosquitoes.
Relieves sore and tired feet if rubbed on
the soles.
Provides comfort if applied to the face after
shaving.
An excellent powder base if rubbed in until
dry.
All chemists and leading stores, or will be
sent post paid upon receipt of postal notes
or stamps by the W. H. Comstock Co., Lto.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price, 2/6 per bottle.
If writing, mention this paper.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ni
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- ( plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
&
o
&
v *\ .y. ‘/■#'<v?/' afl*
*V «*• s^//
.v*
v©'
,\' e
x'*' ,/*
. •‘ *
**
>IV ( -


For over Eidhiy Years
the safest, healthiest drink
1
; A
w/sm
s mJf/y, V, l. SHii
V
5C
7i
iy
•jf/W
v
••■s'
mm
Wmrn i i
fli/JiUf /1 /// i / H
*OO
m
V
A *o
'fits
lie
At -CQH
■ s
°£/c
feSs2s?i?N&fc
thp to ol ’v ft 1 , to at]r i ;>„ I
s?g:
*$
«**£
*°'4£ tf «*,*
**<aerf. Scru i'nijf , ’ rn nt ~ A^l
Ut**. <nrf ">e " ,fr 'a«em
**T; /? r.
%
rteo
r °u,/
G.L
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS is obtainable in large,
half, and quarter size bottles at all hotels.
Wolfe's Schnapps is now, as it has been
for over eighty years, the purest ot all gin
spirits. Distilled in Holland with genuine
Italian Juniper Berries, It is a refreshing
drink with remarkable medicinal proper-
ties. It purifies the blood stream, prevents
and corrects kidney trouble, and tones up
the system.
Drink Wolfe's Schnapps every day for
your health's sake! It will keep you fit and
well always, and refresh you when you're
hot, tired or thirsty.
wops*
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
ALWAYS KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOME.
GENUINELY MANUFACTURED & DISTILLED IN HOLLAND
WS-40-6C
