

SEE
JHamiltons
REME
m
■' S 8
V
" .■■;r 9
n
Wm
■
m
m
I
1
0
i
w
1 0
Investment and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital Cl^o.ooo
Head Ollire KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET. SYDNEY
Phones: BW A 46 and 1147 (G.PO- Bon: 7752 S.S.)
Branch Oflice Commercial Bank Chambers. Beardy St. A
N.S VV Phone: Armidalc 150 Box No. 125, Armidale
WITH perfect physique and training
far more exacting than that re-
quired in any other profession,
the Mail Pilot forms a vital link in
commercial communications.
Behind him is an organisation ensuring
utmost service, mechanics, ground organ-
isation and a thousand and one details,
each in itself vital to safe transit. Because
of this organisation and his own skill
and ability: swift, sure transportation is
possible.
Hamilton’s (Australasia) Ltd. provides in-
vestors with an organisation just as care-
fully and skilfully planned as that on
which the aviator relies.
As the mail plane is flown on carefully
surveyed routes, so Hamilton’s (Austral •
asia) Ltd. recommending investment in
established Companies of proven divi-
dend earning capacity shows avenues for
profitable investment.
Service and advice free of any obligation
is obtainable on application. Write for
a copy of ‘‘Profits.’ the monthly financial
review, which will be forwarded post
free, on application
Metropolitan Building
89-91 Queen Street
MELBOURNE
U.P.O. Box 520 J
I
Commonwealth Building
Queen Street
BRISBANE
G.P.O Box 101” N
e
Building
ung William Street
ADELAIDE
G.P.O. Box 650 F
Representatives si
Perth. W.A,
Auckland and
Wellington. Mi
The Bulletin
A Life Assurance Supplement
Vol. 57.—N0. 2948.
Wednesday, August 12, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
freelance
m
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HERE AND MAIE _
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, os
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ~
My Address
S.B. 336
no
PO
O
PO
w
§
o
>
r
Tl
PO
N
m
... •
H
NDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937,
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO, per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will‘be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person bom in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AS BAD
AS ZANE
Somebody lately
made the stagger-
ingly impolite
assertion on the
Red Page that
there were dozens of Australian writers
who could writs as badly as Zane Grey
if they wanted to. He went on to speak
of (his eminent tunny-stalker as the per-
fect literary haberdasher, implying that
Z.G. shaped his cloth to suit his cus-
tomers, and be hanged to literary values ;
that Z.G. writes as he does because it
pays. By implication those dozens of
Australian writers are above that sort of
thing.
1 doubt the whole lot of this. First, I
doubt that Zane Grey does write badly
according to his own lights. I believe he
writes with the utmost sincerity, and 1
believe all best-sellers do likewise: in this
The Sheik and The Seven Pillars of
Wisdom have a closer kinship than that
(here are Arabs in both of them: if any-
thing, probably the fuller sincerity went
to the making of the former. Australia’s
current best-sellers are, I’m certain, both
as positively sincere as any who envy
them their royalties. So are all Zane
Greys. The idea that any of them turn
out their masterpieces with tongues in
cheek is pure fallacy.
The contra suggestion that there are
dozens of Australian writers who could
do “as badly” as Zane Grey is a nice
compliment to the morality of our
novelists —unfounded, I fear. It is dis-
counted, I think, by their working at
journalism and other scribbling jobs, and
also by the sundry purely entertainment
novels that get published and the poor-
ness of these as entertainment. All these
latter people are pretty well in a literary
paddock with Zane Grey, and if any of
them could be Zane Greys I think they
would not mind a bit. In fact, I think
that is precisely what they aspire to be
As for the really good writers, whon
1 should hardly number in dozens, the
thought that best-sellers are never written
with the tongue in the cheek seems to
dispose completely of them.
My conclusion is that there are two in
Australia who can write very much as
Zane Grey writes, who, quite sincerely
do so, and who, considering our popula
(ion, make a fairly good; thing out of it
fhey are not, I think, consciously trying
to make literature. Neither, while they
are writing, are they consciously trying
to make money: they are trying to com-
municate with their visionary readers. 1
can see nothing objectionable in this
Neither can I see anything to get flusterec
about in the confusion of this sort of
writing with literature; nor do I think
that those sincerely intent on doing work
of literary quality are hampered by these
best-sellers. Rather the opposite. I do
not know why everyone should be ex-
pected to appreciate literary quality any
more than everyone is expected to
appreciate the corresponding quality in
music. I think the fact is that everyone
doesn’t; more, that many are troubled
by it. T fancy that the work of our
lighter fictioneers might be serving some
such purpose as helping to increase con-
fidence in Australian writing as entertain-
ment, which, of course, is the main pur-
pose of writing, though the interpreta-
tions bf “entertainment” are various. The
more that confidence can be strengthened,
the better, it seems to me, will it be for
those who, knowing what they are about,
consciously are trying to add something
of value to our literature.
Omitting that qualifying clause, “know-
ing what they are about,” these are not
by any means the rarities that some
might think. As I see it, by far the
strongest impulse in writing in Australia
is towards making literature. I do not
base this on published books: indeed it
could not be based on them, since the
majority of them are clearly written for
publication at all cost: that is why they
fail to be Zane Greys, while belonging
to his paddock. My basis for the belief
is unpublished manuscripts. Most of
the hundreds of these that I’ve looked
into in the last year or two are not only
unpublished but unpublishable, but the
impulse in the great majority of them has
been definitely towards the making of
literature. They are so intensely bent upon
this, many of these writers, so earnest
and serious in this laudable ambition, that
this alone has been enough to defeat
them: their earnestness has heaved them
up on stilts, and their seriousness has be-
come solemnity. Nor, I think, is that
altogether inapplicable to those published
ones that we praise as the stalwarts of
our literature. I know it is a risky thing
to speak of humor in the face of such
ingrained solemnity, for humor to many
means only comic farce, as comedy
means only slapstick. Nevertheless I risk
it to wonder whether Literature here-
abouts would be ruined entirely if some-
body was so lighthearted as to laugh in
fer vicinity. I suppose it isn’t just barely
possible that the lady holds aloof, regard-
ing our literary genius as a rather solemn
snob?
Cecil Mann.
Some New
Writings.
“It is also a
world where all
day, in every
activity, in the
factory and the
farm, and on the scaffolding of new
buildings, men are conscious of ‘we’ be-
fore T”: this remark, attributed by John
Lehmann, editor oi-New' Writing, to a
Georgian—that is, a Caucasian—poet, is
more descriptive of another anthology,
Proletarian Literature in the United
States, than of the more individual out-
look of Mr. Lehmann’s contributors.
New Writing is a new style of maga-
zine in book form. It is to appear twice
a year; it
aims at providing an outlet for those
prose writers... .whose work is too un-
orthodox in length or style fdr the estab-
lished monthly or quarterly magazines
... .it does not intend to open its pages
to writers of reactionary or Fascist senti-
ments.
About the longest piece in this first
issue is a study by Christopher Isherwood
of the family of a “removalist” in a poor
quarter of Berlin, This is full of cold
and exact observation, especially of
Otto, a precocious boy for whom Mr.
Isherwood (one of the Auden tribe) fore-
casts a livelihood based on sexual ambi-
guities. The father and mother, also, are
clearly drawn, especially the mother’s
collapse into a hospital neurosis. The
sketch strikes you at once as being very
true, and very new ; these people have
not been done before.
In a few pages that seem like warm-
toned oils, Ralph Bates balances the
launching of a sardine-fisher’s boat in the
Mediterranean against the labor-pains and
delivery of a fisherman’s wife. In a sym-
posium of “different Lives,” John
Hampson claims that hungry men should
eat slowly, adding his own experience ;
Charles Harte shows how an Irish black-
leg saw the light; two translations from
the German give the feelings of a German
soldier who passed by his home on the
way to the Western Front (Alfred Kan-
torowicz), and describe how the Nazis
taught some Jews to say “Our Father
Which Art in Heaven” by beating their
praying hand with steel and kicking them
about on the stones (Anna Seghers);
none other than our own visiting jumper,
Egon Erwin Kisch, reports the experi-
ences of a woman comrade growing silk
in the Pamir.
Andre Malraux, in Storm in Shanghai,
prepared us for almost any kind of shock
that China could give us; but “Hatred,”
translated from the Chinese of Tchang
T’ien-yih, adds considerably to the tradi-
tion. “Storm over Canicatti” is a story of
how some Italian villagers held up a train
which had come to take their young men
to Abyssinia; and John Rodker also
translates from the French of Andre
Chamson an exquisite story of two boys
who hated each other, climbed over
some country which is beautifully de-
scribed, and parted enemies.
The difference between this English
workman and the American workman as
shown in Proletarian Literature in the
United States is the difference between
the English book New Writing —polite,
suave, finding its satisfaction in the writ-
ing—and the American book, whose ob-
jective is not reached with the writing:
you cannot go through the 384 pages
of this book, divided into short stories,
poetry, reportage, drama and literary
criticism, without feeling very strongly that
here is a portrait of the American work-
man which the talking pictures and the
colored magazines have left out. That
is its value; as satire: there is a story
about the hundredth birthday of “James
T. Hamstringer, Sr.” which is as brutal
and libellous a burlesque as anything I
have seen, and the literary criticisms, be-
cause they deal mainly with enemies of
The Cause, are very good indeed. The
verse, except for “In a Coffee Pot,” by
Alfred Hayes, is poor; the saddest effort
is a lullaby;
Suck, little baby, suck long.
Body mustn’t be frail.
Muscles growing full and strong—
Daddy’s in the Fulton Gaol.
The plays, most of which are extracts
from books published, are worth while.
The play “Waiting for Lefty,” described
as a “Broadway Success,” has a clever
idea. The stage is the platform at
union meeting, the audience being the
members, and the meeting proceeds with
blackouts from time to time which allow
scenes from workers’ lives to be acted on
the stage in the half-circle made by the
union committee. A gunman watches
the meeting, in the interest of the em-
ployers, from the wings.
A friend I showed the book to said:
“You’ll find the weakness in the verse;
the pity and the softness—it all comes
out there.” It does, of course. Put all
this writing up against a study like The
Postman Always Rings Twice, by James
M. Cain, and it melts away. Cain’s
work is a challenge to a higher arbiter of
human destinies than any capitalist; he
does not appeal to Marx, but to God,
and he doesn’t expect an answer. That
is the old concept of literary perfection,
I know; but is the appeal to Marx or
Stalin a more ultimate appeal? Cer-
tainly it is more practical; but suppose
the American proletariat got its Stalin,
what would the proletariat do for litera-
ture? No Stalin would tolerate the
continuance of this satire, this resent-
ment, this self-pity, and, as these are the
only constituents of the book before us,
the invitation of these writers to Com-
munism becomes a suicidal gesture.
The truth is this is a literature not
ior but of the proletariat; the pro-
letariat itself still patronises the literary
and theatrical offerings of the capitalists ;
the most interested readers of Com-
munism literature are capitalist poli-
ticians and dilettantes.
R. McCUAIG.
“Spider
Wonders”
A readable
book on Austra-
lian spiders has
been needed for a
long time, and
Keith C. McKeown, of the Australian
Museum, has provided it, with the title
Spider Wonders of Australia. Mr.
McKeown is scientific but entertaining.
He does not like spiders; but they fasci-
nate him:
Among the spiders we find customs
which might well be transplanted from
another planet, and many things normal
to spiders rival the wildest imaginings of
the disordered mind of a drug addict, so
that one is repeatedly impelled to exclaim,
“Surely such things cannot be.”
After all, there is very little known about
the arachnes. They have yet to find a
Boswell as intensively familiar with them
as a dozen writers are with the ant.
There are plenty of spiders to study—
among them the big nephila, which
spreads over four or five inches, and the
funnel-web spider, which seems to be
almost confined to the North Shore of
Sydney and which is wrongly called the
trapdoor spider. A nasty piece of work
this, with two fangs which Mr.
McKeown thinks are probably the most
formidable organic weapons known, hav-
ing regard to the size of the beast that
wears them, and capable of injecting a
drop of poison, scarcely visible to the
naked eye, but holding enough death to
kill an adult human. There is also the red-
back, which carries its own danger signal
and can leave a bitten man very sick
and sorry.
Outside these, most spiders are harm-
less and even useful ’to man. The true
trapdoor fellow, who weaves a neat lin-
ing for his tunnel and puts an even neater
hinged lid on it, is in this category,
though he is not pleasant to look at. And
so is the nephila —-the triantelope. He,
however, has a habit of catching small
birds in his webs.
vSpiders also fish. The author quotes a
number of actual cases in which big
dolomedes have been seen to pounce on
heedless minnows and goldfish and drag
them ashore. He prints a photograph of
the actors in one performance: the fish
is a good many times the size of the
spider, but the spider’s appetite is in con-
sonance with his strength. He gets
through a fish meal at a remarkable
speed. He does not fletcherise. He
carries his own predigestive with him,
spreads it on the flesh, absorbs both,
sends the recovered liquid to a sump
somewhere for reconditioning and uses
it over again.
Of spider lovemaking and spider
houses, Mr. McKeown has a great deal
to say. The spider is not usually gre-
garious. Some species are found in
colonies so large that it takes a 12-foot
woven cloth, spider-made, to cover
them. But normally spider does not
gossip with spider ; and, so far from Mrs.
Spider expecting her lord and master (or
lords and masters) to spend his evenings
by the fire, she often does not see him,
except when he arrives “view mat.” The
spider couples which live together in
amity are the exception rather than the
rule. Those which live in unity are more
common, since the small male spider’s
amorous adventure with his large loved
one is more often than not his last. The
lady is as likely as not to make him
bridegroom and wedding breakfast in
one.
From the big nephila plumipes spider,
which lives in America, a certain Pro-
fessor Wilder wound off silk for an hour
and a quarter at the rate of six feet per
minute till he had 450 feet, which weighed
a third of a grain. The professor be-
lieved that this productiveness could be
commercialised, but Mr. McKeown does
not say whether he issued a prospectus.
A spider farm might possibly attract
{Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways. FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES “The Senior Store ” "While I Live I’ll Grow'
ANTHONYHORDERNS
QUALITY MERCERY BY WELL-KNOWN MAKERS
K
/•
I a
m
rim; W-ift;
■m.
*
mm
&&.MC ' s
s**
fyy ■■
■■v' ~,
i
*n
.
v,„
11
B
■*-*■- .....
8%
gPS&SM
m.
MS
L&f,
1
’ -..■
•>»
,i ’£>
.
: ■: ; ■
m
■<• :
.. A'iX. '
■ ■ ■. . ■■
:
WOODROW HATS RENOWNED QUALITY
There isn’t a hat to compare with'"Woodrow English Felt Hats for style
and wearability . . . nothing that will command such instant respect
3T6
Woodrow Hats have established a world-wide reputation for quality.
The dash and spirit of the new snap brim styles mark them as hats for younger men. Yet
older men will find in these hats the authority and correctness that good taste demands. Greys,
Fawns, Browns. Price, each 37/6
u
KYNOCH” SCARVES plaids and checks
9/6
; ‘Kynoch” Scarves come from Keith in Scotland. They possess just that
dash of colour and smartness which characterises Highland plaids and checks.
Made of All Pure Wool of a quality soft and warm, yet firm and durable.
Wear a “Kynoch” Scarf with your overcoat this spring—besides individuality, it will give the
correct finish to your dress. Two comfortable widths. Neat plaids and checks.
Prices, each 9 / 6 ’ 12 /6
KAIAPOI
UNDERWEAR
“Kaiapoi” is the name which guarantees
every garment of this high-grade New
Zealand-made Underwear. Made from
Wool that is soft and warm without
undue weight, therefore it provides the
right protection against winter’s ravages.
Every garment is fully fashioned
and doubly spliced at places where
wear and strain are greatest. Shirts and
Pants in Red drab shade.
Sizes: S.M., M., 0.5., X.O.S.
Shirts . . 18/6 18/6 19/6 21/6
Pants, pr. 18/6 19/6 20/6 22/6
Anthony Hordern
and Sons Limited,
SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
“WOLSEY" ENGLISH UNDERWEAR
Underwear made by the famous English firm of
Wolsey is renowned the world over for quality,
comfort and durability. Every garment is guaranteed
and specially pre-shrunk. Shirts and pants made from the best
selected Wool in styles fashioned to fit the figure perfectly. Winter
weight in natural shade.
Sizes, in., chest .... 34 36 38 40 42 44 48
Prices, per garment . . 18/6 19/- 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 26/6
“SMEDLEY’S” ALL WOOL U'WEAR
Another famous brand of English-made Under-
wear. Being made from softest and warmest Wool,
firm of fibre and texture, you can expect maximum
service and utmost comfort from every garment bearing the name
Smedley. Fully fashioned shirts and pants of warm medium winter
weight. Sunmore shade.
Sizes, in., chest or waist: 34 36 38 40 42 44 48
Prices, garment 22/- 22/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 27/6
9 Mens Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
22/-
18/6


\
tyef mote merfatopUf moleo
fat l/OUAHUrH&if
* nrrTU /
WITH
Super Plume 2tLi
-■- THE $ POWER PETROL §
CIEAROm MoMloil
PRACTICALLY 100% PURE LUBRICANT
capital, but until the company is formed
the sole uses for spider-web will be the
stopping of bleeding—a dangerous and
unhygienic practice—and fishing. North-
ern abos. often use spider-web in place
of a hook to catch small fish, which get
their teeth entangled in the silk when they
take the bait. And the Papuan, when
kite fishing, uses a spider-web tassel as
a lure. At Yule Bay (Papua) the huge
six-foot local spider-web is turned into
a fishing net. The fellow who weaves it
is an obliging cuss —you set up a hooped
bamboo and before long up comes a
two-inch arachne and fills the frame.
To his 250 pages of spider habits, Mr.
McKeown adds a chapter on scorpions
and ticks and the treatment of spider-
bite, completing a book which should
find a permanent place on many
shelves. It might well be prescribed as
a school book for young outback
Australians.
M.H. Ellis.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
A BOOK with the title No Wont of
Meat, Sir! held the promise, he sug-
gested, that “it might be reasonably close
to the knuckle,” though the name of its
compiler, John Hackney, “seemed a trifle
ominous.”
“1 notice,” he commented, sniffing
slightly, “that the meat our Hackney pur-
veys is most of it dead.”
"Here,” I protested, “I can’t possibly
put that in. It’d mislead people. They’d
think these short stories were thrillers.
They’re very serious literature.”
“You’ve said it,” he admitted breezily;
“ve-ry serious. So much that a lot of
people’ll be misled anyhow. They’ll
think the English short-story writers
aren’t interested in the fierce
passions of buttercups and
daisies any more. They’ll
think the whole roasting of
them have been inoculated
with the virus Hemingway-
cuss and are going to run
about all savage and primi-
tive like a lot of American
geniuses, guzzling corn rye and thumb-
ing their noses at the cathedrals and
swearing on Mother’s Day. I regret,”
he added fretfully, “that it’s all eyewash.”
“For my part,” I insisted, “most of
these score or so authors seem to be
trying to get something real said. As
the blurb significantly states, 12 of the
stories have appeared previously only in
limited editions. I’d have thought you'd
have liked them.”
“Sir,” he flamed warmly, “because a
man swears in his bathroom that is no
warrant for hoping he’ll do so in the
vestry. These, as you would say, are
really all very nice people. They’re just
got up to look a bit like gorillas
so our Hackney can stand outside
the tent and shout: ‘Roll up! No
want of meat, sirs! Real Authors
captured at fearful risk in the wilds of
Bloomsbury! Don’t miss the chance of
seeing them ’ock deep in ’orror. For
one day only, people. To-morrow they’ll
all be back in the “Curates’ Gazette.” ’
Not,” he added more hopefully, “that
they’ll be welcome there any more.”
He flipped over the pages to a story
by James Hanley.
“Now this,” he exclaimed enthusiasti-
cally, “ought to be really splendid.
Hanley, at least, is one who never minces
matters. H’m . . . my mistake. He
minces this chap all right. Bank clerk
who finds that his companion in the train
compartment has suddenly died. With
true British feasibility, he believes they’ll
have him up for murder. Goes imme-
diately and volubly off his head. After
9000 words throws himself under an
engine. Loud laughter—l mean, excel-
lent. H’m . . . here’s another good one
by Graham Greene. Airman hits the
ocean at 120 miles an hour. Another
little job for the undertaker. Ah . . .
here's a nice juicy one. Sidney Vogleys.
Set at the horse-butcher's. No want of
meat, sir! And what beautiful conclud-
ing words: ‘....the lecherous utterance
oi his lewd mind.’ . . . Hello, there's cer-
tainly no want of meat, sir, in this one
by H. M. Bates! Not an ounce under
21st. 101 b. of prima donna and 17st. 61b.
of basso profundo. H’m! Little boy.
peeping through keyhole, sees big basso
strumming ‘like a harp’ on bigger
soprano's pink corsets, after which re-
hearsal they sing together at the church
festival. Read that to your auntie!”
'‘Writing of arresting vigor,” I com-
mented. “And think of the delicate mys-
ticism in that story by T. F. Powys’’
“Yes, very pretty,” he agreed. “Girl
whose father builds her a bathing pond,
with shrubbery and a wall to make it
secluded. But she won’t say ‘Yea’ to the
nice chap who’s wooing her, so father
confers with parson. Naturally they
conclude that if parson’s secreted in the
shrubbery he’ll learn all. Parson plants,
and sees enough to justify the perfectly
lucid conclusion that the girl’s fallen in
love with the wall, whereupon they
knock the wall down. And the lass pines
and pines, until one day they find her
body in the pond. Poor dear . . . Hello,
her name’s Ophelia! I knew something
like that’d happen. I’ve suspected that
bloke Hackney all along.”
At a story by John Collier he bright-
ened, laughed outright. I understood; I’d
laughed heartily at that story myself. It
tells of a Famous Author who’s walking
in the zoo when a large ape informs him
that he, too, is a novelist. The upshot
is that the author gives him clothes and
takes him home. When both their novels
are finished the ungrateful ape changes
them, and, the Famous Author having
gone on a world cruise “to avoid the
publicity,” the novels get published in
a state of vice versa, and the Great Critic,
whose fiancee the ape’s meanwhile
mauled at a cocktail party, praises the
work supposedly by the Famous Author
and damns the work supposedly by the
ape.
“You agree,” I said, “that it’s a jolly
tale?”
“Oh, splendid,” he agreed warmly,
“with some especially effective bits of
attempted ape.”
* * * *
It having been agreed on the voices
that, among others, the last two stories
in the book—“ Body” and “In the Midst
of Death” —could be taken as read, I
asked what he thought of Aldous Hux-
ley’s new novel, Eyeless in Gaza.
“I think,” he said crisply, “that it’s
the finest contribution to the chilled-goods
trade so far invented. Instead of ever
banning Aldous, old Tom White up at
Canberra ought to tell everybody to pack
their apples and mutton with him. This
new novel of his’d freeze the impulses
of a film star. If Aldous is a serious
rival to anybody it must be Mrs. Stopes.
“Take it all round,” he summed up,
“I should say Aldous is pretty well de-
scribed by what a chap in that other
book over there does in his laboratory,
‘....breeding a small insect in a milk-
bottle and peering at it down a micro-
scope.’ Isn’t that the idea? Isn’t that
Aldous? Aren’t all these people of his
laboratory cultures? Why, they can’t
even commit a decent original sin with-
out looking like a lot of bacilli. That’s
a nice way of dealing with sex and other
pleasant virtues. It makes everything
deplorably antiseptic.”
“Of course,” I said, “I understand why
you dislike him. Mr. Huxley, natur-
ally, disappoints you. He puts down
everything about these people at all likely
to make them look evil and detestable ;
then, as you rightly suggest but naturally
dislike, he disinfects them, and they’re
clean and real. 1 should describe his
novel as a feeling and deeply moving'
piece of ice-clear literature. It records,
under its frigid but sharply-clear picture
of English intelligentsia life over the past
30 years, the efforts of a male specimen
of that stratum to cut through the mind-
conditioning of Jiis education and the
soul-debilitating influences !of his anaemic
environment. I should say that life is
rarely treated to so cold a stare. It influ-
enced me very strongly.”
“Apropos of which influencing,” said
the devil at elbow genially, “what did
you have for dinner after you finished
reading it?”
“I finished it this afternoon,” 1 said.
“I had tripe for my dinner.”
“You should be more sensitive to the
subtleties of literature,” he retorted.
“Tripe! And you say Aldous influenced
you! With his whole novel a sermon in
favor of vegetarianism! Look at his ex-
plicit description of the leg amputation!
Doesn’t that stir your cabbage instincts?
Or the woman’s removed kidney and dis-
cussion thereon! Where’s your lettuce
impulse? Or the little dog that falls out
of the aeroplane . . . squash . . . right be-
tween Anthony and Helen, splashing
them all over where they’re sunbaking in
the nude on the roof! And you retain
an appetite for tripe! What,” he asked
in an increasingly gastronomic tone of
voice, “are you going to have for break-
fast?”
“Steak,” I said firmly. “Underdone.
With split kidneys.”
“Calling Mr. Hackney! Calling Mr.
Hackney!” he paged impulsively. His
brow darkened thoughtfully. “Now
what in the name of eternity,” he won-
dered, “made me think of him ?”
C.M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Eyeless in Gaza: Aldous Huxley
(Chatto and Windus ; from Angus and
Robertson; 125.). Ice-cold, but excep-
tionally worth reading. See Satchel.
No Want of Meat, Sir: edited by John
Hackney (Grayson; 7s. 6d.). English
short stories, of the “completely frank”
order. See Satchel.
Sailors Do Care: “Sinbad” (Harrap ;
7s. 6d.). Stories of the sea, in wind-
jammers and steamers, told by a hand
who knows the ropes and can spin a
workmanlike, yarn.
Don John's Mountain Home : Ernest
Raymond (Cassell; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.).
Young vicarage governess’s romance with
a young teacher at the boys’ school, pre-
marital affair up in London, its not un-
natural outcome, a slash of tragedy, then
the gallant Don John to the rescue.
Prettily done entertaining romance.
ANTHOLOGIA ...
New Writing: edited by John Leh-
mann (Bodley Head ; from Dymock’s ;
9s. 6d.), and Proletarian Literature in the
United States (Lawrence and Wishart;
11s. 3d.). Interesting. See “Some New
Writings,” p. 2.
CRIME AND DETECTION . . .
Prologue to the Gallows: Paul Mc-
Guire (Skeffington ; 7s. 6d.). Seasoned
addicts may find surprises in this latest
ingenious crime fare by the best Austra-
lian concocter of these things. McGuire
—South Australian, with a dozen or more
good crime mysteries published in Lon-
don —here first spreads out the ingredi-
ents of an excellent murder, then uses
them. Nothing could be fairer, and
otherwise the addict gets what’s becoming
rare to his palate, the flavor of novelty.
BIOGRAPHY . . .
My 60 Years in the Law : F. W. Ash-
ley (Bodley Head ; 15s. net). Author,
for 54 years clerk to the late Mr. Justice
Avory, suffers the heavy handicap of his
hero’s unswerving uprightness and chill
personality. Nor does he make much
of •general/ interest ofhis own story set
in that shadow. “Lengthy and protracted
familiarity” is his style.
GENERAL . . .
Spider Wonders of Australia: Keith
C. McKeown (Angus and Robertson:
65.). Capital. See “Spider Wonders,"
p. 2.
Memoir on Fossils of the late Pre-
Cambrian : T. W. Edgeworth David and
R. J. Tillyard (Angus and Robertson ;
7s. 6d.). After a thousand million years
the remains of the stoutest marine
creatures are considerably impaired, and
the geologist and entomologist who
examined fragments from the Adelaide
Series were in doubt for a while whether
they were vegetable or animal. Animal
won ; they’re ancestors of the trilobites,
and, as reconstructed, look like lobsters.
The demonstration helps to push back
the date of the dawn of animal life.
New Zealand, A Short History : J. C.
Beaglehole (Allan and Unwin ; 3s. 6d.).
Comes almost on the heels of Condliffe
and Airey’s similar essay, but scores
over it by being able to view political
developments with the recent Labor vic-
tory included in the perspective. Dr.
Beaglehole’s style is gently ironical. He’s
no hero-worshipper, but his judgments
are fair.
Various Verse
Is love not everlasting,
And have I worn her lips away
With the hours’ wasting,
That their sweetness should decay
In the tasting?
Oh, love’s a sun still burning.
And sweet as ever are her lips
For the shades yearning
Of moving worlds to this eclipse
Not returning.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Dawn Castles.
When Tve been going, lazily as a floating swan,
Among men’s haunts and homes,
I have seen towers and paths that lead thereto
and on
To further and whiter domes.
’Tis easy to be generous to a world that gives
So very little away,
While such a vastness of eventful splendor
lives
In the castles of day.
Though the night nurtures yearning love could
never slake,
The castles of dawn endure;
So my faith harbors a crush of priceless songs
that break
Not out for any lure.
Castles beyond the dawn! Forge slow the
eternal spell!
Nor your vast reach confine!
Someday your diligent Magians will move
kindly to compel
Triumph for me and mine.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
The White Cry.
Where boughs green not with leaves but moss
Cathedral-cold enclosed the wry
Vines struggling through a world of loss
And trees’ growth heavier than a sigh,
I saw the youngest lamb in the world
Beside the oldest tree in the wood.
Its delicate fleece with twilight pearled,
In white astonishment it stood,
The only light in that green gloom,
The only warmth in bleak July.
So small against the dusk and doom
To which the tree through grcenlight’s sigh
Strode onwards with a vast, slow tread,
So frail against the breath of ice
(Though on white snow its red blood bled
To make a winter sacrifice),
It had no power to shake the wood,
That could not hurt a blade of grass.
1 saw it stricken as it stood
For lumbering centuries to pass:
Against the tree’s dark vastitude
A dream, a white cry, meaningless,
Though it were nailed on that huge rood.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


; ■. ' ''*\yS
l®* a ■•
'"■» r- \
m § i
S*| Jjg Ha
|' •;:•
:: ■ ■•/
: : •::>,:■■ *•><»*
> .♦
I
;: ■
Mi
■ i
Wm
still
I *
■
w
........
i
I :
■
%n <
I
... ! :. V ir-li ■
li
' i
; : s® : ;
HS
I
mmm
■
X
fm
-r
uni
1
s*
iliili
......
■ ■ 11 '
V *
:
. -;-v.
■
1
d»
\: : ;x. im
i
■ ■ i
lil
I
■>:'
m
f-
ill
■
■■■ va
W:4^r\fi
111 * i,»«
IN
Your Quests will appreciate the delicate aroma
of this Fine Australian WhisKy, and their judg-
ment, like yours, will acclaim its soft mellowness.
It is a satisfying drinkl
“A really charming
This specially-selected Australian Malt WhisKy
is guaranteed Pure Pot Stilled, and won First
Prize at the Royal Centenary Show.
MILNE’S WHISKY
is sold at a price to suit your purse, because there is no
primage or exchange and duty is little more than Half
that of imported wbiskies.
6d a nip - 7/9 per bottle
in Metropolitan Area,
Country Slightly Higher,
New South Wales Distributors for the House of MILNE .
CAWSEY MENCK T. & S. LTD.,
447 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
mmm
■'■M
STAHDAR
WhCP mvarn k .
'A ? ? | . r J.V # *. * "


è


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2948.
August 12, 1936.
DEADLOCK.
“Your move, I’m sure.”
“No, very right honorable sir—your move.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zhaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London ; T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months. £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places. 4d.
SECTION 92.
Since the Commonwealth Attorney-General returned
from London, the public has been fully informed of
his views on men and matters unconnected with the
Privy Council case in which his arguments and those
of N. S. Wales Attorney-General Manning were
rejected. It has had Menzies on chilled beef, Menzies
on flying-boats, Menzies on the surpassing merits of
British politicians, Menzies on Blum, the League, the
Obsessions of Europe and What Germany Wants.
Mr. Manning has not been so copious, but he also, in
conversations with reporters, has shown a marked
tendency to discuss anything but the subject of his
unsuccessful expedition.
Mr. Menzies intimated at Perth that he had “not
studied the judgment,” and Mr. Manning made the
same admission in Melbourne. It is rather extra-
ordinary, for the full text, with only lawbook quota-
tions omitted (and they were made identifiable), was
published in the Adelaide “Advertiser” five days before
the gentlemen arrived at Fremantle. They could have
had two copies delivered to them there for seven-
pence, postage included. No doubt both had lost
all the enthusiasm with which they set out, at the
people’s expense, to demonstrate that the people had
no constitutional right of inter-State freetrade. Section
92 being just verbiage ; still, some elucidation of the
judgment, some statement of the position it had
established, was expected.
The Privy Council was very far from saying that
Section 92 was verbiage. It said instead that “Section
92 binds the Commonwealth equally with the States” ;
and because it binds the Commonwealth “the Dried
Fruits Act, 1928-35, must be held to be invalid,” and
since “the Dairy Produce Act, 1933-35, raised exactly
the same issue as that raised in respect of the Dried
Fruits Act,” it, too, was invalid. In effect, no Govern-
ment may say to any producer or trader, “You may
sell so much of your produce in Australia but you
must export the rest.”
Of the argument advanced by Mr. Menzies that
“51 (1) overrides 92,” the Law Lords said: “The solu-
tion has an attractive aspect of simplicity, but will
it bear examination?” They were most emphatically
of the opinion that it would not.
They could not give effect to the contention con-
sistently with any construction of the Constitution
which is in accord with sound principles of interpreta-
tion. To give that effect would amount to rewriting,
not to construing, the Constitution. That is not their
Lordships’ function. The Constitution, including Section
92, embodied the will of the people of Australia and
can only be altered by the will of the people of
Australia.
It is uow clear that no authority—Commonwealth
Government, State Government or board —can pro-
hibit the export of goods from State to State;
but can any authority prohibit the transport
of goods from State to State or enforce regulations
having the effect of prohibition? This question
was not raised in either of the cases in which
James was successful, and both judgments leave it
undetermined. The Law Lords mentioned Vizzard’s
case, in which the owner of an unlicensed motor-lorry
appealed against a conviction under the N. S. Wales
Transport Co-ordination Act, 1931, on the ground
that the Act contravened Section 92.
Justices Duffy, Rich, Evatt and McTiernan held
that it did not. Justices Starke and Dixon dissented.
Four to two; where it is three to three, the view
of the Chief Justice (Duffy, C.J., retired and is now
dead) prevails.
Since the second James judgment was delivered
the Victorian Government has cancelled the licenses
of the motor-lorry men called Riverina “hauliers.”
A concern affected has taken out a High Court
writ claiming that Part II of the Victorian Transport
Regulation Acts, or “in so far as it operates or
purports to operate so as to prohibit the plaintiff from
operating commercial goods vehicles between Mel-
bourne and Wagga and other towns and places in
N. S. Wales, is contrary to the Commonwealth Con-
stitution and void.” This action may result in another
appeal, though in a previous transport case leave to
appeal was refused by the Judicial Committee itself.
“Orderly marketing” of commodities grown within
a single State and not sent beyond its borders —milk,
for instance —is still subject to State laws. According
to the Law Lords, “except so far as the contrary is
expressly provided in the Constitution, each State
remains sovereign within its own sphere; the powers of
the States within those limits are as plenary as are the
powers of the Commonwealth.” But “orderly market-
ing” of produce part of which is exported, to the
extent that it was based on compulsion cannot stand.
The leaders of wheatgrowers’ organisations want it
as well as the dried-fruits and dairy-produce organisa-
tions, and at the F. and S.A. conference in Sydney
the president, Mr. Field, issued a sort of ultimatum:
If it be found that the only way out is by amend-
ment of the Constitution we shall look to the Govern-
ment to take a referendum and do the utmost in its
power to see that it is carried.
A referendum is needed —to remove the doubt
regarding transport, to place it beyond the power of
one State to tax income from another (a thing incon-
ceivable in Britain) and to effect a complete separa-
tion between national and provincial powers. But
the sort of referendum that Mr. Field has in mind
wouldn’t have even a thousand-to-one chance.
Squandermania Methods.
Control of the public purse is supposed to be a
jealously guarded prerogative of the directly elected
House in British Empire countries. It still exists in
some, but is fast disappearing in Australia.
In Britain, Canada and S. Africa the financial
year ends on March 31, and budgets are brought
down as early as possible in April. One good result
is that the people know what the taxes will be and
can make their preparations accordingly. In Australia
the financial year ends on June 30 and budgets are
introduced when the seven Treasurers please ; and if
estimates are left until there is no time to consider
them properly it is thought to be an advantage.
A Commonwealth Public Accounts Committee
recommended that “estimates and budget be sub-
mitted to Parliament not later than July 15 in each
year, draft estimates to be delivered to the Treasurer
not later than April 30.” That it can be done was
shown by the Scullin Administration, which had its
1931-32 budget ready on July 10. Even Mr. Lyons, in
his character of U.A.P. leader, managed to put his
1934 budget before the House on July 24, 1934 being
an election year. Normally, however, any old time
is budget-time.
The hiatus between one financial year and
another is tided over with supply bills, which, as the
Tasmanian Auditor-General pointed out last year, are
apt “to defeat the right of Parliament to exercise a
proper supervision over the whole of the year’s
finance.” These supply bills are supplemented by a
jumble of emergency measures for the relief of some
section or other. These emergency measures are often
in the nature of blank cheques.
Last year the Westrahan Auditor-General had
to ask the Crown Solicitor to say whether the Finan-
cial Agreement Act overrode all State Acts in relation
to the squandering of loan money. Victoria’s watch-
dog gave many troubled hours to the consideration
of expenditure on unemployed-relief. He expressed
the opinion that it was the function of Parliament to
determine the amount to be thus expended in any year.
But Parliament has practically no control over
the allocation of unemployed-relief nor does it control
the maximum expenditure. And the expenditure is not
subject to the restrictions and supervision prescribed
by the Audit Act.
With the growth of bureaucratic control, there is
an increasing tendency for departments to spend freely
and tell Parliament afterwards —usually a long time
afterwards. At Canberra it has not been uncommon,
especially under the Lyons regime, for supplementary
estimates to be brought down more than a year after
the money has been spent without a statutory vote.
Unauthorised expenditure in Queensland, loan
suspense accounts excluded —they have been placed
beyond Parliamentary control —amounted in 1934-35
to £520,797 from revenue, £667,686 from Trust and
Special Accounts, and £578,001 from 10an—£1,766,484
in all. S.A. spent £541,000 of loan money and
£211,000 of revenue on Governor’s advance warrants,
“excluding excesses authorised by special Acts.”
Excess expenditure in Tasmania amounted to £107,084.
The Tas. Auditor-General has “frequently drawn
attention to the delay in submitting excesses to
Parliament.”
As for N. S. Wales no Auditor-General’s report
is complete without tables like this:
Expenditure without Parliamentary Sanction or
Appropriation.
From Revenue. From Loan. Total.
1932- £422,429 £870,636 £1,293,065
1933- 316,640 423,134 739,774
1934- 548,958 635,176 1,184,134
The N.S.W. Audit Act provides for the appointment
—within 30 days of the beginning of each Parliament
—of a Public Accounts Committee charged to
“inquire into and report upon all expenditure by a
Minister of the Crown made without Parliamentary
sanction or appropriation.” The committee has
power to order the attendance of witnesses and take
their evidence. It is regularly appointed, but it is a
farce. To comply with the Act the committee’s report
should be annually appended to the Auditor-General’s
report; but it never is.
The present committee was elected on October 2,
1935, and met on December 11, 1935, and March 18,
1936. It found that £1,293,065 had been spent (or
squandered) without warrant in 1932-33, but declared
itself satisfied with the explanations offered, though
Mr. Hankinson said “there seemed to be little or no
regard for the estimates,” The same member re-
marked on the tremendous difference between
amounts budgeted for and actual expenditure on
social services. Mr. Primrose reminded him that “if
the department adhered to the estimates a number
of persons would be adversely affected.”
One of the 1932-33 items was a £40,000 subven-
tion to friendly societies. In December, 1932, the
Ministry had rushed through an amendment to the
Friendly Societies Act and had forgotten to get an
appropriation. Unsanctioned payments to hospitals
in excess of estimates were £lOl,BOB in 1932-33,
£148,800 in 1933-34 and £99,150 in 1934-35. .•
Another item of which the Accounts Committee
approved without comment in March, 1936, was
£60,000, made available by the anti-socialist Govern-
ment for the starting of a socialist bus service on
Christmas Day, 1932. Parliament sat almost con-
tinuously from September to December 20, 1932, and
passed a Transport Bill, among other measures, so
that there was absolutely no excuse for not asking
the House for supply to meet this expenditure. A
1934-35 improvisation was an emergency advance Of
£150,000. Each time this was disposed of there was
a transfer to a suspense account and a fresh start was
made. The A.-G. “drew the attention of the Treasurer
to the illegality of this procedure”—in vain.
Perhaps all this disorderly finance is attributable to
there being too many Ministers and members. When
the Commonwealth Statistician last counted them
there were 73 Ministers (the Victorian Government is
appointing a 74th), and, including the 73 Ministers,
there were 616 members. Fewer Ministers and mem-
bers might mean greater competition in a field now
restricted by pre-selection swindles, and improved
methods. The current craze for overseas junketing
shows that not all the 73 Ministers (who are to be
74) are needed; Canberra has had four Ministers
abroad at the same time, and Sydney three.
This Freedom.
I was born in Jreland, and from 1897 right up to
1921 I was constantly hearing of the woes of the
distressful country. They followed me, through the
press, to school in - England and to the Western Front.
After the war, far away in India, I was still reading
of Ireland’s troubles. When I returned and learned
that peace had been arranged, and that the British
were going to hand over Southern Ireland to the
Southern Irish, I wondered what sort of freedom the
Southern Irish imagined they were going to enjoy.
Of course, the Free State may be an ideal country
to live in nowadays. I don’t know. But when 1 read
in the newspapers of certain “drastic police action”
it seemed almost like old times. Thirty arrests were
made and no charge was laid in any case ; 27 Republi-
cans, arriving at Dublin railway station in custody,
were met by “a large force of armed police, who
prepared a machine-gun for action....” I said to
myself “Well, the ‘Castle’ Government never did any-
thing like that.” At least, not quite like that.
But now I am old enough to know that most
revolutions end by producing the exact opposite of
everything they set out to achieve. Most revolutions
are due to the activities of determined minorities.
All that the general mass of the public contribute
is the chorus effect, and when the revolution is accom-
plished they have to contribute their brawn. Then
they find that the daily task is much the same as
before, and that the only difference the revolution
has made is to deprive them of the freedom to air
grievances which somehow they were able to air
before.
If we look towards Russia we shall see that the
Soviet regime has not only taken over the whole
Czarist technique of repression but has actually made
it much more severe. All the old features of censor-
ship, espionage, arbitrary arrest and banishment are
in vogue to-day in Soviet Russia in an intense form.
1881.' 1932.
Czar Alexander 11. was Sergei Kivov was assas-
bombed to death. Five sinated; 117 persons were
revolutionaries who par- shot as a result. Of these,
ticipated in the plot were only seven were actually
put to death. charged with complicity.
A Soviet law of August 7, 1932, prescribes the
death penalty for theft of State property. A decree
of 1934 prescribes banishment for the innocent rela-
tives of any Soviet citizen who flees from the country ;
banishment for at least five years—to Siberia, too.
In Czarist times all Russians \tfho were discontented
with the regime could leave the country.
And, of course, both Fascism and Nazi-ism have
adopted all the tricks of the trade from the Soviet.
In Italy, in Germany and in Russia there is just one
party, no others being allowed; and over the party
you have in Russia the Vozhd, in Germany the
Fiihrer and in Italy 11 Duce. These three individuals
demand and receive a far more intense sort of adula-
tion than was ever accorded to any king.
The old imperial days in Germany were free
beyond the wildest dreams of imagination compared
with the Germany of to-day. The German people
have surrendered their liberty—and in return for
what? The Fiihrer claims to have solved all the,
internal problems of the country. If this is really
so, he has done it without disclosing the secret of his
new principle of economic regeneration. The slight
improvement in the unemployment situation is merely
part of a general world tendency. The general world
tendency has had its influence in Russia also ; but a
study of Soviet newspapers —papers circulating inside
Russia —leaves me convinced that the man with a
job in Russia is really not very much above the level
of the man without a job in Britain or Australia.
I am forced back on the conclusion that this
Australia of my adoption, in spite of some drawbacks,
is the freest country in the world. There is more real
liberty here than anywhere else on earth. Within
certain limits, which are fairly generous, I can do
as I like. If I have any message for my brethren,
and feel an urge to deliver it, I can go on Sunday
to the Domain in Sydney or Brisbane —or the Yarra
Bank, or the Perth Esplanade or the Adelaide
Botanic Gardens —and deliver it publicly or criticise
the Government until I am black in the face. I can
choose my own way of living, and can remain unem-
ployed if I am so disposed. I can keep my home
sacred from intrusion ; and I can earn, spend, save
and accumulate property, provided I do so honestly.
And, finally, if I feel that this country will not give
me the place which I fancy I should occupy, I am
free to leave it.
EX-CAVALRYMAN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Labor's In; Taxation's Up.
What the politicians call “humanitarianism” has to
be paid for. Maorilanders who have watched the
proceedings of their first Labor Administration with
approval or trepidation, according to whether they
received things like the 40-hour week or had to grant
them, have now reached the point where they will
have to do some paying.
For one thing, the income tax is being
“remodelled.” There is to be “a basic rate” of Is.
Bd. in the £, rising to Bs. 2d. in the £ on £8950
Coates’s rose to 4s. 6d. in the £ on £5900 and up-
wards, plus 33 1-3 p.c. on unearned income and 4d. in
the £ on anything in excess of £5OO.
Under Coates and Forbes companies paid up to
4s. 6d. in the £, being exempt from the 33 1-3 p.c.
and the 4d. Under Nash there is to be a “basic rate”
of Is. in the £, rising to 7s. 6d. in the £. Maoriland
Labor seems to share Queensland Labor’s dislike
of companies.
Coates’s land tax was Id. in the £ of unimproved
value, with substantial deductions and exemptions.
Nash’s is to be Id. in the £ up to £5OOO, increasing
by “eight one-thousandths of a penny for every £’
to 6d. on £45,000 and upwards.
Administrative expenditure has been heavily
increased by the grant of the 40-hour week, and
“national restoration of wages to 1931 levels” is in
process of being added. Now there are to be
thumping increases in expenditure on social services:
£1 a week for old-age pensioners, £1 a week for
invalids (plus 10s. for a wife and 10s. for each child
under 16), and so on.
New and increased pensions are expected to add
£1,710,000 to the annual outlay. It seems extremely
doubtful whether the increased revenue will suffice,
for, except in the case of some companies, the income-
tax rates will still be below the Australian scale. But
Mr. Nash, the Minister for Finance, is positive that
it will suffice; he predicts a surplus of £13,000.
Mr. Nash is also Minister for Markets, and in
that capacity he announces a schedule of guaranteed
prices for dairy produce —117 s. 3d. per hundredweight
for “finest-grade” creamery butter, 107 s. lid, per
hundredweight for “first-grade” and 635. 7d. per
hundredweight for cheese. If the country loses on
these guaranteed prices the loss will have to be made
up out of the taxes. But at the moment the farmers
could do as well (or better) without the guaranteed
prices, which are less than they were promised on the
hustings; and already there are growls which will
swell to roars when the new wage- and tax-bills are
presented together.
Enough of Lang and Garden!
U.A.P. newspapers give twenty times as much space
to the latest Sydney Labor wrangle as they give to the
trade war with Japan, but though it is perhaps good
U.A.P. politics to keep Sydney Labor wrangles going
they make dreary reading.
The principal actors in the latest hullabaloo are
Lang and Garden, who have been political friends
and enemies so often that records of their fallings-out
and makings-up have been lost. As politicians both
are now exploded.
Behind Lang are the “Labor Daily” and the A.L.P.
executive which expelled Garden ; backing the former
Communist International man are a Sydney Labor
Council group, together with Communists who also
expelled him once. Four members of Lang’s caucus,
Heffron, Lazzarini, Davidson and Horsington, looked
on timidly at a meeting at which the Garden faction
defied the Lang faction, and Garden, who once
hailed Lang as “greater than Lenin,” described him
as an imitation Hitler.
The cause of the quarrel is obscure, the parties
to it are unimportant and uninteresting, and Aus-
tralian Labor would be well rid of both.
Welfare Projects Soon Pall.
At odd moments of enthusiasm the Lyons Govern-
ment throws off numerous welfare projects, but soon
loses interest in them. The latest example is the
nutrition inquiry, which is proving a complete flop.
The idea came to the Prime Minister or some-
body in February, and an advisory committee was
set up. Then housewives all over Australia were
invited in a desultory fashion to fill in forms setting
out details of their household regimen for a week.
The response was so poor that this phase of the
investigation has been virtually abandoned.
Everyone except a Government or a departmental
bigwig would have known that an effort of this kind
needed careful organising and much publicity—pub-
licity through the press and the radio, through private
welfare organisations and by personal appeal directly
to those whose co-operation was being invited.
Nothing of the kind was done.
A deep silence ensued. It was broken the other
day by a statement that careful observations and
records of the dietary of 100 selected families in each
State were to be made. Six hundred families, and
the population nears 7,000,000!
It is the story of the maternal-welfare appeal
over again. The Government decided to celebrate
King George’s jubilee by establishing a maternal-
welfare fund, to be raised partly by public subscription.
There was a pretty good response to the appeal. The
money was handed over to certain State institutions,
the Commonwealth thus relieving itself of what had
become a tiresome responsibility; and to-day nothing
is heard of the maternal-welfare movement.
Bullock-dray Methods.
Within a week or so the first seaplane for the new
Imperial Airways service to Australia will have been
put through its paces. By the end of the year the
whole 29 “Imperial route” ships, on which Short
Brothers have been employing 3000 men on the
Medway, will be off the ground.
In all, they will cost more than £1,000,000. Each
weighs 18 tons loaded, is 30 feet high, feet long
and 114 feet wide. There will be room for 24 pas-
sengers, who will have sleeping berths, a smoking-
room and a special room for their luggage. Each
passenger will be allowed 331 b. of luggage free.
The intention is to reduce the present London-to-
Singapore time, 8i days, to 5i days, and the time to
Sydney from 12} days to eight days, even though the
seaplane route will be longer. However, these are not
ultimate transit times. Schedules are to be shortened
as ground organisation improves, until another day
and a half is cut off the London-Sydney journey, which
will then be done at an average of 200 m.p.h.
When a bi-weekly service from London carrying
mail at ordinary rates—lid. per letter—was mooted
at the beginning of the year, it was opposed by the
Lyons Government as being an infringement of
Canberra’s right to lag a few years behind the rest
of the world in aerial matters, and of its prerogative
to extort taxes through the Post Office. After months
of negotiation no agreement has been reached. The
British who built the ships can’t understand Can-
berra’s attitude, nor can a public which pays sd. for
the carriage of a letter on the very shortest land route
understand it.
Having seen sky giants rearing their heads by
the dozen in every European country. Ministers have
decided to do a bit of aeroplane-building on their
own account. A committee has circled the globe, and
is now examining Australia with a microscope to find
a suitable site for the works. When last heard of it
had reached Adelaide. Provided it does not intend
to investigate the possibilities of Tibooburra and Inna-
mincka, one of “the frocks” should be laying a foun-
dation stone about five years from now.
Safety First.
Though scientists and inventors have done much for
the coalminer, his is still a dangerous calling. An
explosion in the Wharnecliffe pit at Barnsley, York-
shire, has cost 59 poor fellows their lives. As usual,
their mates made heroic attempts to rescue them,
and the stricken womenfolk were comforted by their
sisters, as far as comfort could be given. While
pressure of carbon monoxide was still dangerous,
Herbert Smith, the old president of the Miners’ Fed-
eration, hastened by air from a conference at Prague
and went down to see if he could do anything for
his lads. On such occasions, trade-unionism exhibits
a human and noble side.
This dreadful affair, following as it did at no
great distance of time the destruction of 260 Welsh
miners at Wrexham, reinforces protests against the
introduction of electric coal-cutting machinery in N. S.
Wales mines, particularly the Aberdare Central, where
450 men are concerned. Baddeley, M.L.A., in putting
the case for the Aberdare Central men, quoted the
opinion of their check inspector that a machine bought
for Aberdare Central is “dangerous, because of the
presence of inflammable gas in the mine.” Minister
Vincent, who has never worked in a coalmine (Mr.
Baddeley has), replied, in substance, that, “as far as
the department is concerned, everything is done to
ensure that safety conditions at the mine are
observed.” This is not questioned, and the company
may also be depended upon to take every precaution
that occurs to it; but it has to be remembered that
coalminers are not timid fellows, nor are they alarm-
ists, and in common with other miners they are very
competent as a rule.
Mr. Vincent should go into this matter again. It
is decidedly one of those cases in which it is better to
be sure than sorry.
The Balance Was Insufficient.
Canberra is inspiring press statements about an inflow
of capital making up for the insufficient trade balance
for 1935-36. No figures are given, and without them
the statements are not convincing. Nor has the amount
of London balances been disclosed, though two years
ago there was published an elaborate analysis showing
these funds to be £68,000,000 sterling, including the
note-issue reserve. Outside sources have calculated
that these reserves have been now reduced to
£35,000,000— quite inadequate in the circumstances.
Trade figures for two fiscal years in sterling:
1934-35. 1935-36.
Merchandise —
Exports £81,860,000 £97,409,000
Imports 72,421,000 83,582,000
Commodity Balance .. £9,439,000 £13,827,000
Bullion and Specie—
Exports £8,365,000 £10,425,000
Imports 1,698,000 1,731,000
Bullion and Specie
Balance £6,667,000 £8,694,000
Total Balance £16,106,000 £22,521,000
In 1933-34 the favorable balance was £37,860,000
sterling. About £28,000,000 is needed, taking into
account visible and invisible items, in order to meet
an overseas interest bill of £23,500,000 and to pay
for other services. Any deficiency must be met from
accumulated credits in London. These were drawn
on to provide about £12,000,000 to meet the defi-
ciency for 1934-35. _
On the face of it, the trade balance for 1935-36
was £5,000,000-odd light, but the unspecified inflow of
capital for investment is said to have filled the gap.
Not much has been said officially about the om/Aow
of capital in 1934-35, when several millions of profits
accumulated by overseas interest were taken out of
the country.
Imports went up 15 p.c. in 1935-36, exports 19
p.c. Customs and excise receipts for the first month
of the new financial year nearly touched £4,000,000
and were the greatest in any month since 1929. A
rush to get goods in before the new duties is the
official explanation.
Treasurer Casey estimates that the net loss attri-
butable to coronation tourist traffic will be only
£3,750,000. But his estimate of a surplus of £17,000
which actually reached £3,562,500 makes him the
world’s worst guesser.
The Marvels Menzies Met.
“Sanctions” shook the faith of many Australians in
British politicians. Australians are easygoing as a rule,
but the wool can’t be pulled over their eyes all the
time.
Looking back, they can now see that British
politicians of the Right dragged their own country
and the Dominions (above all, Australia) into a costly
boycott which necessitated a hazardous concentration
of military forces for a long period ; and all in pursuit
of a will-o’-the-wisp called “collective security,”
towards which no other country contributed a man
or a gun. And so far from protesting against this
extremely dangerous adventure, British politicians of
the Left wanted more of it: demanded that oil should
be included in the boycott, and shouted that if it
came to war the Empire could rely on support from
the Soviet, Turkey, Greece and Spain (!). All this
while refusing to vote another cent for additions to
the forces—relatively to other Powers, notoriously
weakened in every arm —which would have been
thrown into their war.
But, as the 1914 song had it, “It’s all right—all
right now. No need to worry any more.” Mr. Bob
Menzies, of Melbourne and Canberra, who intro-
duced the legal machinery imposing “sanctions,” and
then set out for London to represent the Government
on a Privy Council case in which it was equally
“successful,” has been meeting these politicians of the
Right and is back with the blithe assurance that
“the army of to-day’s all right”:
If Mr. Baldwin is not a great man England is not
a great country I admire Anthony Eden immensely.
Encyclopaedic knowledge, clarity and courage, reasoned
policy at least the greatest Foreign Secretary since
the war.,..Sir Samuel Hoare has a cold and almost
contemptuous mastery of any subject he takes up
Sir Austen Chamberlain’s authority in the House of
Commons is greater than it ever was when he was in
office William Sheppard Morrison supremely
gifted.... great character, clear and strong mind,
superb powers of expression and the richest under-
' standing of the human race.
“Every man a genius,” as Mr. Garden said of
the Russian Government when he belonged to the
Communist International. Not a messer among them ;
all marvels. That’s splendid! When are they going
to start to show it?
Mr, W. M. Hughes, who was right about “sanc-
tions” when all these living wonders and Mr. Menzies
and the rest of his colleagues were wrong, has also
been considering British politicians and their works.
To the Institute of International Relations he said
at Brisbane: —■
The Suez Canal is vital to this country. In 1921,
without consulting Australia, Britain committed itself
to a policy which made the canal extremely vulnerable
to hostile attack.
He, of course, was Prime Minister in 1921.
I was amazed to read a press announcement that
an agreement had been arrived at whereby the canal
was eventually to become the property of Egypt. I
protested against any such agreement being arrived at
without reference to Australia. The authorities in
England were forced to admit that, through the indis-
cretion of a plenipotentiary, and through the premature
publication of confidential negotiations, the Empire was
committed to a policy from which there was no with-
drawal.
Sir Austen Chamberlain, whose “authority in the
House of Commons is greater than ever,” was Leader
of the House then. Mr. Hughes wound up by point-
ing the moral.
Foreign policy concerns the whole of the Empire.
It is desirable that each of the Dominions should have
an effective voice in framing the policy which concerns
all and might destroy all.
Spoken with the sagacity of a man who knows
more about British politicians than Mr. Menzies is
ever likely to learn!
Diggers in Camp Again.
From “Keg,” who attended the last war:
I would rather not be at the next, but I am one of
many ex-Diggers who feel that, if the necessity arose, they
could give a good account of themselves. Many of us who
have reached the mid-forties, while not physically perfect are
far from imperfect. I work with 2000, and, if properly
appealed to, they would nearly all get into khaki again.
And there are still Gallipoli veterans who have not turned 40.
It would mean an annual camp of a fortnight, or of a
week half-yearly, whichever disturbed business less. The
appeal would have to be as wide as Australia and would need
to be made by the right men —not Cabinet Ministers who had
no war service. There is no bond between the returned soldiers
and them.
The ex-warriors themselves, most of them having family
responsibilities, could not afford to lose their wages. It
would be necessary for the employers or the Commonwealth to
guarantee them against loss. But surely that would be a
small price to pay for the services of a body of men who
know war and are ready again to place what they have and
are at the service of Australia.
The Commonwealth would also be able to save a bit
on the side. We would not require fancy clothes ; the old
uniform would be good enough for the old-timer, and we
would not disgrace it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMLE'S INKS"
“Owzat”: Lady Yule and her steam
yacht Nahlin, in which King Edward is
cruising, handed one M.L. newspaper-
man a story at New Plymouth early in
1932. The Nahlin anchored in the bay
and pressmen were not welcome. The
Taranaki “Herald” boasted a champion
16st. surf swimmer among its reporters,
and one morning he ploughed round the
Nahlin for exercise. Curious faces eyed
him blankly until the skipper, him-
self an athlete, yelled “Come up!”
The lad went off in a smother
of foam to get his pants. Lady Yule
gave him the best of her few Maori-
land interviews, and the skipper, besides
punctuating it with shots of Lady Yule’s
liquor, showed the pressman over the
“yacht” from the bridge to the engines
via luxury cabins and a hearty lunch. A
staunch belief in comfort and plenty
prompted the visitor to offer his brains
and brawn for any job on the yacht, from
private secretary to greaser. The skipper
was tickled but sorry.
“F.M.H.”: Choice of religions? A
cobber of mine, applying to enter the
Royal Navy, was required to give his
denomination. After that mouthful had
been explained to him he was asked
what they would put him down as.
“Anything that you’re short of,” he
replied carelessly. It is possible that this
tolerant attitude improves the position of
many of the minor churches in statistical
tables.
* * * *
Olympic Games invariably dis-
turb the complacency of people who
fancy themselves supreme in particular
forms of sport. Last time it was Ameri-
can and Australian swimmers, who found
to their vast surprise that they could not
live with the Japanese in the water. At
Berlin Europeans who specialise in lift-
ing heavy weights were outclassed by
Egyptians. One can hardly visualise
Gyppos as weight-lifters. But they are a
very mixed race, and like as not the tri-
umphant Egyptians at Berlin are sons and
grandsons of Anatolian Turks, who are
big, strong fellows, many of them.
* -f * *
“Scribbler”: We writers must be a thin-
skinned mob if any of us objects to his
or her work being named among the
also-rans in the Prior Memorial Stakes.
On the same Red Page (B. 22/7/’36)
there is an article on “Accidental Repu-
tations” which goes on to show how
best-sellers have been rejected time and
time again. In fact, that seems to be
almost an essential of a best-seller. I
have one in my cupboard ; it has been
rejected so often that it is now getting
barrier-shy. As for the unnamed MS.
which “makes it seem extremely hard to
decide between these two splendid en-
tries,” every one of the other two hundred
and odd might think it’s theirs. It ain’t—
it’s mine.
“Emel”: Who says there isn’t humor
to be found in rejection slips? I recently
received one which informed me that the
editor was “overrun with literature of all
kinds”—as if literature were a pest, like
rabbits! And I regard as even more
precious an English intimation, dated
May: “The late editor regrets his in-
ability to make use of the enclosed poem
.owing to the fact that this paper ceased
publication with the issue of March 2.”
Nobody could question the soundness of
that excuse.
* * * *
“Vex”: Among the unusual items of
cargo carried from Brisbane recently by
Qantas Airways were wedding hats for
a bride and her ’maids, day-old chickens
and strawberries. These were all bound
for Darwin.
:jc * i\t t\i
“Wenfilla”: At the end of an arduous
but futile house-to-house canvass as an
insurance agent I found myself at the
entrance to a large cemetery, and de-
cided to take a short cut through it to
the next suburb. The first thing that
“Can you play ‘The Bluebells of Scotland'?"
“No, ma’am—just the bagpipes."
struck my eye was “No canvassers
allowed in this cemetery.” But a second
glance showed that there was no need
to take it personally; it merely con-
veyed a warning to the representatives
of tombstone makers— not, as I had at
first supposed, a delicate suggestion that
insurance canvassers are unfit for Chris-
tian burial.
“Dom”; I don’t know where “Toboso”
(B. 5/ 8 /’36) went to look for Spaniards,
but if he is a Westralian he could have
found plenty at the Benedictine Monas-
tery, New Norcia, pioneered by members
of the order from Spain. There are very
few Australian recruits to these monas-
teries, and New Norcia still depends on
Spain.
❖ * ❖ *
“D.8.K.”: “Temporarily blinded by
escaping . steam” figured among the
casualties of the collier Wallarah off the
N.S.W. coast. Once experienced, this is
a lasting horror. A junior engineer on
the old P. and O. Kaisar-i-Hind on a
crowded cruise from U.S.A. in 1922,
I just missed being in the “grave-
yard” watch. Firemen called atten-
tion to a bad leakage on No. 1
boiler top. As the third engineer in-
vestigated with lamp in hand, a minute
crack in the pipe bend visibly increased,
and, realising what was about to happen,
he pushed another engineer before him
to the plates below, and followed. A
moment later the steam pipe was hurled
upward from the boiler. Steam at 2101 b.,
blowing back from eight boilers, swamped
the stokeholds and even drove the watch
officer above from the bridge. In a matter
of seconds the blasting inferno wiped out
almost the whole of the for’ard stoke-
hold staff. When intermediate stop valves
could be reached to isolate the affected
stokehold, the sight was unforgettable. In
panic, the trapped stokers had rushed the
fiddley ladders, being caught there and
literally cooked alive. There were seven
dead, three engineers scalded terribly and
a very shaky skeleton staff of engineers
left to carry on. Cause of the explosion?
lambed expansion glands in the main
steam-pipe lines. That particular type of
steam expansion gland is mercifully long
since obsolete.
* =:< *
“Snodman”: A kindly M.L. magistrate
was reported last week as advising a
man charged with attempting suicide by
jumping off a bridge that if the impulse
to end his life in that way ever re-
turned he should go and get a feed. “No
man,” added his Worship, “has ever been
known to commit suicide after a meal.”
Still, quite apart from the fact that lack
of the price of a meal has sent many a
poor devil to self-destruction, the gen-
eralisation was too sweeping. If the beak
had ever read Pickwick he should have
remembered the man who bought, toasted
and ate three dozen muffins, and then
blew out his brains to substantiate his
contention that, whatever doctors might
say, “muffins was wholesome.”
♦•* * ♦
“Spare Corp”: There were curious in-
stances of delayed action in other things
besides gas (B. 29/7/’36) during the war.
A shell landed in our trench at Meteren
and laid out a Digger with shock. He
did not , have a mark on his body,
although his clothes were torn, but we
thought he was completely gone until
he recovered suddenly under the stimu-
lus of rum. He carried on for a fort-
night, actually taking part in two hop-
overs, but when we went out of the line
he became so affected that he was hardly
able to stand. He was given a three-
fourths pension when he returned to Aus-
tralia. I once saw a man tossed into
the air by a shell explosion, pick himself
up after he had come down and go
ahead with a rare dash. He collapsed
three hours after we had been relieved.
* * * *
“Trafalgar Square”; Sir Edmund
Henderson, as he came to be, may have
been a great success as Comptroller-
General of Convicts in Westralia, and
may later have reorganised Scotland Yard
(B. 5/8/’36), but nd Commissioner of
Metropolitan Police fell down so hard
on his job at the end. It wasn’t merely
the case of a single scapegoat in high
places being clamored for; the whole
police force suffered when it couldn’t
prevent a mob from taking possession of
London from Pall Mall to Oxford-street
and smashing and looting for a couple of
hours. Never was such an exposure of
inefficiency in organisation. More cut-
ting, perhaps, than all the columns of
condemnation in the daily press was a
full-page cartoon of Henderson, fast
asleep in his uniform, which appeared in
“Punch.” It was acidly captioned “The
Great Unready.”
❖
“S.G.”: I have had honest doubts
about The Bulletin’s substitution of
“Maoriland” and “Maorilanders” for
New Zealand and New Zealanders. They
have been removed, in part at least, by
consideration of a Wellington daily’s
reference to the football rumpus, Maoris
v. Afrikanders.
The principle is simple: In international
Rugby there are neither Maoris nor
pakehas, only New Zealanders.
The moment I read it, it struck me there
was something wrong with the sentence,
and now I see it is the last word. “Maori-
landers” would be immeasurably better.
It would strike everyone as absurd to
call the most engaging of dark races
“New Dutchmen,” but what else are
Zealanders but Dutchmen?
* * « *
“D.A.”: The office flapper was tell-
ing the other girls how she found the
balance in petty cash. “1 was dreaming
last night, and suddenly woke up, and
remembered where I was out. It shows
you how much your subconscious mind
works while you’re asleep,” she finished,
rather profoundly. The accountant over-
heard. “H’m,” he growled ; “/ think it
shows how little your conscious mind
works when you’re awake!”
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Don’t you worry
about Korean barmaids (B. 15/7/’36).
Some of the prettiest pieces of feminine
frailty I’ve seen in Asia—and I’ve seen
a few —have hailed
from the long penin-
sula. Korean danc-
ing-girls have been
popular for cen-
turies, both in
China and Japan.
The male Korean of
to-day is a futile
person who wears a
black top-hat, whis-
kers to match and
long white robes
whilst engaged in
manuring the ances-
tral fields, but he
wasn’t always like
that. Three hun-
dred years ago a
Korean admiral in-
vented the first iron-
clad, and gave a
Japanese sea-force
of twice his size a
handsome licking in
a big fight. The
emperor of the day rewarded his ser-
vices by chopping off his block, lest he
become a danger to the throne.
# * * *
“Plantagenet”: The transposition of
human organs from the normal to the
opposite side (B. l/7/’36) is anatomically
called situs inversus. The par. re the Cess-
nock (N.S.W.) man is misleading in that
it seems to imply that his heart alone
was on the right side. In very rare
cases, twins are born with this curious
phenomenon—both of the same sex —
one right-handed, the other left-handed.
The latter has a complete changeover of
the viscera; in no case can one major
organ go right over alone. These twins
result from the fertilisation of a single
ovum, which divides.
“Kerys”: The major rather fancied
himself in full uniform, and he was walk-
ing with great dignity down our quiet
suburban street when a small woman ran
out of a house and had a word with him.
The major hesitated, smiled pleasantly,
and followed her round to the backyard.
He was out again in about five minutes
looking slightly disturbed. “Queer people
about,” he confided to us as he passed.
“That woman asked me to go in and
cut the head off a fowl she wanted for
dinner. Said she supposed that, as 1 was
a soldier, killing a fowl would be nothing
to me, and she couldn’t do it.” He
snorted indignantly and passed on.
* * * *
“Noo Zee”; The unenviable reputa-
tion of the Greymouth (M.L.) harbor
and bar was maintained when the Abel
Tasman tore away from her moorings.
In spite of her having full steam up at
the time, those on board were helpless to
prevent her from becoming a total wreck
within a few minutes. Rocket apparatus
was used to get a line to the stranded
vessel, and no lives were lost, although
the crew had a rough and trying time
being brought ashore in a breeches buoy.
Most of their abandoned belongings
were salvaged with difficulty next day. In
one basket sent ashore, which included
the cook’s, gear, the humorist of the partv
included an untouched rice pudding!
THE MODERN ATALANTA.
“The majority of the American women competing
at the Olympic Gaines enter the arena with their
hair exquisitely curled and their cheeks artistically
tinted.” — Cable.
They’re hard as nails, you bet, and keen as
mustard,
With no superfluous flesh upon their frames.
The girls who’re out to grab the cream and
custard
For Uncle Sam at the Olympic Games.
You never see them femininely flustered;
One trait, and one alone, their sex pro-
claims :
Even in contest fierce for championships
They can’t forget their tresses and their lips.
They run like hares (including the synthetic
Sort), and they leap like goats on mountain
fells
Or, shall we say—the figure's more poetic—
Like startled chamois or alert gazelles.
Nathless they’re just as partial to cosmetic
As movie actresses or ballroom belles.
Eve’s daughters still, the barrier they breast
intent to look as well as do their best.
Ere down the measured tracks their legs arc
sprinting,
Or o’er the hurdles dexterously hurled,
Their dials must get the proper shade of tinting,
Their manes must be artistically curled.
Reporters might have been content at hinting
What now some brutal male has “told the
world’":
It isn’t only trainer and masseuse
But beauty parlors that these damsels use.
They might have given, had they lived in olden
Times, Atalanta’s self a flying start,
Nor faltered in their stride for apples golden,
As happened to that prehistoric tart.
But nowadays they needs must be beholden
For fame to artifice as well as art.
Dumbbells and Indian clubs are not enough
Without the lipstick and the powder-puff.
Here’s fortune, anyhow, in bumpers brimming
To these Dianas of the U.S.A.,
Who eat the metres up like swallows skimming
And cleave the waves like porpoises at playl
And may it never worry them when swimming
To get the rouges and the “perms.” to stay
And constitute a lighter feature in
The rivalry of athletes at Berlin.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colonel Bungstarter”; Who says that
the Awful Climate of Our Tropic North
deteriorates the morals of the white race?
Here is the inscription over the door of
a humble abode in Wyndham (n.-w.
Australia): “Purity Villa. None but the
Virtuous May Enter.” No, I didn’t in-
quire further. Ido not pretend to be
virtuous myself, and it would have seemed
an unwarranted intrusion.
* * * *
“Windsor”: With due respect to Dr.
Barry 1 submit that Queen Victoria
never proclaimed to anyone her inten-
tion of having a bath once a week (B.
5/8/’36). The announcement was made
by one of the Queen’s uncles (Leopold
of Belgium, I fancy), who said that he
always had a bath once a fortnight,
whether he required it or hot.
H: *
“Marsh”; “Double-headers” remind
me of Palestine days (B. 29/7/’36). Soon
after some colored troops from the Brit-
ish West Indies arrived in the oasis where
we were spelling, three sozzled Light
Horsemen intrigued a few of them into
taking a hand at two-up. The Sambos
were having a lean time of it when the
spinner, overripe with purloined issue
rum, dropped a penny from the kip as
he was about to toss. As the brown
rolled along the ground with a head
showing on each side, a Jamaican, with
keener eyesight than his cobbers, re-
marked : “Oh, I say, that is hardly fair,
is it?” Muttering something about
“narks” the trio made tracks to the can-
teen, where they changed some of their
ill-gotten piastres for Pyramid beer. Any-
one who suggested two-up to the B.W.is.
after that was viewed with suspicion.
They preferred chess.
“Bakash”: No player need be afraid
of a double-header being spun in a big
two-up school (B. 29/7/’36). The pen-
nies are placed tails uppermost on the
kip ; the double-header, to be used effec-
tively, must be held underneath by the
index and middle fingers. In the act
of tossing, the thumb holds the inner
penny, while the outer one and the “nob”
from under the bat fly aloft. But nowa-
days the unusual wrist action of the
spinner would be promptly noted. The
ring-keeper, too, would have to be in the
joke, for he alone picks up the pennies
and replaces tails uppermost, which
would be impossible with a tailless coin ;
and no sensible ring-keeper would
jeopardise his lucrative job for such an
obvious ramp. “Flying the nob” is re-
served in these enlightened times for
bush race-meetings, drunks and neo-
phytes.
* * * *
“Bill O’Costs”: With due respect to
“Claypole” (B. 27/7/’36) learned brother
Draper, of W.A., was right when he,
while allowing “keeping nit” to go into
evidence unexplained, objected to the
phrase “giving the office” as not being
plain and understandable language. The
former scrap of slang is a simple state-
ment of fact; the latter involves infer-
ence, and is capable of many shades of
meaning. F’rinstance, I meet a know-
ledgeable follow who gives me (1) the
hint simple: “I am buying ‘Great Ex-
pectations.’ Can’t tell you why” ; or (2)
secret information: “The board is going
to increase the rate of dividend’; or
(3) information which isn’t secret, but
is unknown to me: “They’re a crook
crowd behind that. Leave it alone” ; or
(4) advice undiluted; “Put all you can
on Shirtwinner” ; or (5) a chance to form
my own judgment: “Come out and see
him do a genuine trial gallop” ; or (6)
shrewd deduction: “I believe the tariff
is going up on that line.” Cross-examina-
tion is largely taken up with the eluci-
dation of equivocal words and uncer-
tain phrases, and there is sense behind
the testy Judge’s occasional explosion:
“Yes, I'm ready to leave my wife
and children for you."
“How GOOD you are, darling!"
“Never mind your ‘dinkums,’ your
‘straight griffins,’ your ‘oils’ and
‘offices.’ What did he say or do ?”
iii * # Ht
“Kayeff”: That Chinese dentist who
pulled teeth with his fingers while press-
ing a nerve on the patient’s temple (B.
29/7/’36) was using a very ancient
Chinese method, which we moderns
hailed as a new discovery about 30 years
ago when a London magazine published
an article headed “Squeeze Your Toe and
Stop the Toothache.” It was illustrated
with photos., one of which showed a
practitioner drawing teeth while squeez-
ing the top joint of a patient’s finger. The
theory is that the body is divided into
vertical nerve zones, and that pressure on
the end joints of fingers or toes, applied
for about two minutes, has an anes-
thetic effect on the various groups of
teeth, the back ones responding to pres-
sure on the little finger, and others to
pressure on other joints.
“ You'll be able to see the manager in a few moments. Take a pew."
“Morphine”: What dictionary did
“Dai” (B. 29/7/’36) consult to discover
that chlorodyne is 90 p.c. proof spirit?
This is how the drug, a poison, is con-
stituted: anhydrous morphine, hydro-
cyanic acid dilute and chloroform. The
name is obviously a mixture of this mix-
ture. An overdose will entitle anyone to
an obituary notice.
“Spud”: A Westralian miner stuffed
his pay envelope into his waistcoat pocket
and, reaching home, proceeded to work
in his cabbage patch. Later missing the
money and guessing where he had
dropped it, he went out and found that
most of his young greenstuff was also
missing. A stray goat to which indica-
tions pointed as the culprit met a hasty
end. An unprofessional but effective
operation disclosed the tattered
remains of a £5 note. They
were identifiable, and the bank
cashed them.
“Morita”: Sudden conversions? One
of the finest tributes to the A.I.F. came
from the Bishop of Amiens, in which he
hailed the Diggers as the saviours of the
city and his beloved Picardy. His letter
to H.Q. was run off on a duplicator, and
a few copies were sent to each unit. I
opened up our issue in the orderly-room,
and, after the officers had each grabbed
one, the colonel, gazing at the few left,
suggested they had better be given to the
R.Cs. Almost all the unit was immedi-
ately converted, and there were bitter
complaints from rightful R.Cs., who went
short.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: To most people
a fire extinguisher is something painted
red which hangs upon the wall of an
office or workshop ; it was only lately I
realised that the use of one is apt to
cause a problem second only to the fire
itself. In an office where I was doing
some odd jobs, the boss carelessly tossed
a match into a w.p.b. filled with old
photo films, and a pillar of flame went
hissing up to the ceiling. A quick-witted
clerk grabbed the fire extinguisher,
bumped the plunger on the floor and
turned the hose on the blaze with in-
staneously effective results. Then a fresh
question arose; what was he to do with
the thing in his hands, squirting foam
all over the office floor? “The window,
dammit, poke it out the window! ” shouted
the boss. The operator turned the
hose towards the window, which was shut.
The foaming suds bounced off the glass,
and the giggles of the typists changed
to wails of indignation over their soaked
clothing. I managed to get the window
open, and immediately roars of anger
arose from the owner of one of the cars
parked below. In desperation, the clerk
turned the hose on the wall of the oppo-
site building; before the charge fizzled
out that wall and most of the near-by
windows looked as if they had been
whitewashed. “We’ll let the fire rip next
time,” the boss snarled, surveying the
scene of devastation.
* * *
“Bo”: These Hollywood murder-
mystery stories seem to be constructed
with a view to baffling the keenest ama-
teur sleuths among film
audiences. To this end
the “multiple suspect”
business is almost in-
variably employed.
Captains of industry,
professors of psy-
chology and politicians
may ponder heavily
over the identity of the
hidden slayer, but our
office boy can pick him
in one. On my desk
was the blurb sheet of
a mystery film I was
just about to preview,
which had not pre-
viously been thrown on
an Australian screen.
Displayed on its front
page was a pictorial
panel of eight of the
cast: “Any one of
whom may be the mur-
derer —can you pick
him or her?” Young
Jim pointed unhesitat-
ingly to a gentle-look-
ing old lady. “I’ll bet
she’s the one.” When I asked why he was
so confident he told me simply; “Because
she’s the least likely-looking of the
bunch.” And it was so.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Many Diggers were handed
a commission without ceremony (B.
23/7/’36). I was with a bloque once
when the C.O. browsed into the hut,
slung my cobber a couple of pips and
said: “You can stick these on your tunic
in the morning.” The stars duly
appeared, and the rest of us sprang to
it like one man, without a flutter of an
eyelid.
“P.M.”: I put in several years of the
war in orderly-room work, and never
saw a “commission” nor regarded it as
anything more concrete than a thirst or
a headache. I have vivid recollections
of an occasion in the Flying Corps when
six sergeants were commissioned in a
bunch. The sergeant-major lined them
up. “You blighters will ’ave yer last
night in the sergeants’ mess. Make the
most of the hopportunity, an’ good-bye
to you!” They made the most of it: I
was orderly-room corporal, and acted
next day for the O.R. sergeant, who was
•—er —indisposed.
•i* '!•
“Dungeness”: Wyndham (n.-w. A.)
affords an interesting example of Doug-
las Credit —or something. Anyhow, the
meatworks there manages to make one
lot of money do three jobs every pay-
day. It has a branch of the
Commonwealth Bank, which it
staffs and manages under
agreement, and from which it
draws the necessary on pay-
day. The recipients promptly
deposit most of their wages in
the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, of which there is also a
branch on the works premises.
A proportion of the pay is
telegraphed or posted to de-
pendants elsewhere ; the works
also has its post office. An
interchange system between
the township post office and
Commonwealth Bank and
Savings Bank branches in the
little township enables most of
the floating currency to be re-
tained in the circle. Old in-
habitants aver that there are
individual notes that will
answer to their whistle, so often have
they served to wet it.
»*' •!' 'l* *!'
“R.1.P.E.”; The Adelaide gardener
who sprayed a trombone with green
paint to “freshen it up” would not have
been fined had he used a wax spray. In
California, sun-ripened fruit and vege-
tables are now being kept fresh by thin
coatings of wax. This is claimed to pre-
vent scald, the chief cause of rot in
apples, and to prolong the edible lives of
ripe oranges, grape-fruit, lemons,
tomatoes and melons. Has this been
tried in Australia?
A NEW ANGLE.
“The first thing I turn to in newspapers is the
sporting pa ge.”—Prime Minister Lyons.
Before he starts considering the greatest
Problems impending for the land he rules,
He takes a hasty eyeful of the latest
Doings of “muddied oafs and flannelled
fools.”
Deftly he scans the turf vaticinations
The favorite for the Melbourne Cup to know.
The hardest worker needs his relaxations.
And sport provides no end of ’em for Joe.
The Davis Cup gave him some thrilling
moments
In the scant leisure he may call his own
(Along with the illuminating comments
Of Henry Marsh and Dr. McElhone).
He’s apt to linger over wrestlers’ capers
When referees across the ropes they throw
Before he tackles leaders in the papers.
Oh, he’s a many-sided man, is Joe.
He loves to read, before he turns to righting
Affairs of State that may be out of joint,
How Chippy Barker, at the Stadium fighting,
Landed a stinger upon Puggo’s point.
Even the links where golfers do their stunting,
The greens where bowlers saunter to and fro,
The chronicles of fishing and of hunting—
All have a vivid interest for Joe.
Although his own essays at skill and science
Must needs be made where only words are
flung,
With not an implement to place reliance
Upon, except a smooth and ready tongue,
His heart still thrills to tales of ski- and skate-
craft
Performed in Kosciusko’s ice and snow.
Be sure that, in the intervals of statecraft,
We’ve still a sport—a dead-game sport—in
Joe.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


M
20/orlf6
«0/br9 d
1.99*
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
CRAVEN A
JE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
TtRPCD
C I G ARE T T E
EE
GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
The F. and S.A. is not going to let
Stevens and Bruxner fix up all the N.S.W.
election arrangements again. Last time
the gentlemen coolly decided what seats
should be contested by one Ministerial
party or the other, and by whom. “No
more of that!” said the F. and S.A. at
its conference ; and the F. and S.A. is
right.
Revolutions and civil wars in which
Reds are concerned have one character-
istic in common. As Tennyson wrote
long ago,
The little boys begin to stab and shoot.
Some of the little boys who are perform-
ing in Spain have brought about an ugly
situation by shooting Germans and
Italians. The nasty little boys’ hero, it
seems, is Dimitri, the Bulgar, who was
accused of burning the Reichstag, and
was rewarded at Moscow by being com-
missioned to organise children for “the
world revolution.” The unspeakable
ruffian was also a hero .to hordes of
English writing men.
Reduction of taxes means reduction of
unemployment. If any politician doubts
it, let him study the S.A. income-tax rates
and unemployment returns for the last
year. When South Australia had the
heaviest State income tax it had the
heaviest percentage of unemployed. The
moment tax reduction was brought about
by gifts of Commonwealth money
(tax-money, ironically enough), the per-
centage of unemployed began to drop,
and with further tax reduction promised
the movement is still downward.
Rates are up in the City of Sydney—
or valuations are up, which amounts to
the same thing. Wholesale appeals have
been lodged. The Lud Mayor pleads
that rates could be lowered if Govern-
ment departments stopped sponging on
the council; and the worst sponger is the
Railway Department, which conducts
businesses in opposition to ratepayers and
trades in hours forbidden to them.
Victorian “Crown employees” are to
receive £337,000 in “restoration of
salaries to 1929 levels.” Politicians are
“Crown employees.”
“Young, brilliant and enthusiastic.”
N.S.W. Attorney-General Manning
brought back glowing reports of his
peregrinating chief. Stevens, it seems, is
known in England as “the young, bril-
liant and enthusiastic Premier of N.S.W.
who gave the knockout blow to Mr.
Lang.” Yes, he is enthusiastic.
Hitherto S.A., W.A. and Tasmania
have claimed to be the States with “dis-
abilities.” If Canberra doesn’t stop giving
them such prodigious grants, the other
three States will demand that their “dis-
abilities” should be considered. With
the aid of grants aggregating £2,750,000,
S.A. (surplus £243,000), W.A. (surplus
(£88,000) and Tas. (deficit £129,000)
finished the year £202,000 to the good.
The States which furnished most of the
£2,750,000 finished £2,516,000 to the bad
(N.S.W. £1,687,000, Queensland £714,000,
Victoria £115,000).
Victoria has a higher proportion of
elderly people than any other State. For
some never-explained reason, those who
have been thrifty enough to provide for
themselves are taxed double the rates
imposed on people young enough to earn
their living. In other respects the Mel-
bourne Government is rather considerate.
It allows relief tax paid as a deduction
from income subject to ordinary income
tax. The Sydney Government not only
refuses this deduction, but charges
ordinary tax on relief-tax money de-
ducted at the source or paid annually.
The Melbourne Government is taking
10 p.c. off its unemployed-relief tax and
starting the impost at £lO5 p.a. instead of
£52 p.a. It seems that £250,000 of
revenue will be ‘sacrificed” in the first
“QUEUE UP, GENTLEMEN—DUN ST AN SPEAKING!”
“Among Crown employees who benefit by the increases are the Premier (£1350
to £1600), Ministers (£lO28 to £1200) and members (£436 and £465 to £500).”
year. Not much of a “sacrifice,” con-
sidering that the Government is getting
about £250,000 in two parcels from the
Howard Smith and Myer estates; still,
every little helps.
In one week Tasmania’s Trade Com-
missioner in London, reviewing ship-
ments of apples and pears, said “Packing
has been consistently bad this season,”
and Victorian delegates to a conference
of apple 'and pear growers in N.S.W.
carried back the news that “everything ’
was “wrong” with Victorian apples and
pears placed on the Sydney market. Per-
haps it is all a result of Federal bounty-
feeding. There were few complaints of
the kind before bounties were paid.
S.A. has two McLachlans in the
Senate. The one who is not in the Cabi-
net doesn’t agree with Mcßride and
Cameron, Ms.H.R. from the same State,
that the trade-war policy is “disastrous.”
The only real opposition comes from the
woolgrower and the importer. The im-
porter perhaps has a genuine complaint.
The woolgrowers furnished £52,230,000
of 1935-36 exports amounting to
£107,834,000, but McLachlan evidently
considers that it gives them no right to
question the policy. It was the same
McLachlan who said that the British
High Commissioner had been sent to
Australia “to guide us.”
Raymond Watt, one of the delegates
the Lyons Government is sending to the
next palavers of the League Assembly (if
any), continues to embarrass it. He said
in Adelaide: “It is the task of the League
of Nations Union to see that our foreign
policy is kept truly in line with the
League of Nations.” That meant “sanc-
tions.” Next time it may mean war.
It is written that “approximately 100
people, including Ministers and their
staffs,” will be at the Premiers’ con-
ference. The number would be greater
but for a Commonwealth Minister
and one State Premier and one of
his Ministers being abroad—another
is just back after a wild-goose chase
which lasted nine months. A cable-
gram mentions that the Premier “and
staff” arrived at Berlin just before the
Olympic Games. What a heap of drones
our hive has!
Lyons, speaking at Brisbane, is re-
ported in “S. M. Herald” to have regis-
tered the unflinching determination of
his Government “to adhere to the Em-
pire bond,” and not to yield to foreigners
in any circumstances. He mentioned
“delicate negotiations being carried on
by Sir Henry Bullett.” Bullett? Bullett ?
It must be our clumsy old friend Gullett,
who is so inflexible that he has sanc-
tioned imports of Japanese goods for the
Christmas trade because “if the embargo
had been maintained it would have been
necessary to pay hands off and profits
would have been adversely affected.”
The Japanese, for their part, have re-
fused to admit a single bale or sample
of Australian wool, and have got Man-
chukuo to put an embargo on our flour.
Douglas’s “advice” to the Banking
Commission (“Discourage technical legis-
lation, but fix the responsibility on finan-
cial administrators regarding future
monetary systems in Australia”) set an
Adelaide “Advertiser” man recalling that
the major once appeared before a similar
commission in Canada. He talked for a
day and a half and left the commission
prostrate. Once the chairman inter-
rupted ;
“In the final analysis, your theory is
based on inflation?”
“My theory, sir, has nothing to do with
inflation.”
“Then I don’t understand anything
about it.”
Does anyone?
G. D. Fallon, who narrowly escaped
becoming president of the Federal Labor
organisation, is evidently another gentle-
man who believes in fairies. Writing
from Adelaide to the “capitalistic” morn-
ing newspaper in Brisbane, he declared
that his party had returned to the bank-
ing policy which had enabled the Com-
monwealth Bank “to finance the con-
struction of the East-West railway
without cost to the people.” Maher,
the new leader of the Queensland Opposi-
tion, promptly replied in the “Courier-
Mail” that the without-cost assertion was
absurd. As a matter of fact, an interest
item figures in every report on the East-
West railway. Obviously Mr. Fallon
never reads these reports, his reading
being perhaps confined to newspapers,
Karl Marx, Hans Andersen and Grimm.
Mr. Lang, as seen (on different occasions )
by Mr. Garden.
The Charmers and Fettlers who have
been conferencing in Sydney found Min-
ister Thorby almost bursting with en-
thusiasm for Britain.
During the last 10 years the U.K. has
taken more than £600,000,000 worth of
our primary produce and paid spot cash
for it. There is no other market in the
world to compare with it. Britain has
given us very definite preference. Trade
with Britain is the basis of our prosperity.
And so on. Before the orator sat down
someone mentioned “unification.” “God
forbid that we should ever have it,”
shouted Thorby ; “it would destroy the
country.” But Britain has it.
Thorby’s view of the Privy Council
decision is that “ ‘we’ have now been
robbed of the power to pass or enforce
legislation affecting inter-State trade.”
“They” have been robbed of nothing.
All that has happened is that the Privy
Council has interpreted the inter-State
freetrade section to mean what the people
took it to mean when they accepted the
Constitution, and what the framers of
Section 92 meant when they drafted it.
Politicians like Thorby are cubits below
their stature.
The Sydney Government is still blither-
ing about the wonders to be wrought by
putting the unemployed on sewerage
works in suburbs where many of them
live and can’t pay their rent, and in
which thousands of other houseowners
have been unable to pay their rates, let
alone find £2O to £4O for sewerage con-
nection. If Greater Brisbane’s Council
ever harbored such notions, it has cast
them out of its mind. Its sewerage
branch estimates for the 1936-37 year
are: Revenue, £181,503; expenditure,
£443,600.
Carruthers, the Douglas Credit Assem-
blyman whose vote keeps Tas. Labor in
office, says “he is grateful to the Gov-
ernment for having adopted socialisation
of credit and consumer credit,” and
having “undertaken to do its best to get
those planks adopted by the A.L.P.” In
that its delegates failed at the Adelaide
conference. Still the repulse was not such
as to discourage Ogilyie and Dwyer-Gray
from sporting green leaves on their coats,
as did the French revolutionary who said
“Green is the color of hope.” Like con-
sumer-credit, hope costs nothing.


“RUNG-IN.”


Enjoy Springtime in Sydney.
Springtime is calling! Sydney and her wealth of seasonable attractions await you
and so do the welcoming portals of “The Australia.”
You are assured of a delightful holiday, luxurious comfort and flawless attention
to your personal preferences. Now open the enchanting Martin Place Extension.
“ROOM ONLY” RATES: Single Room from 10/6; Double Room from 20/-.
Telesraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
PERSONAL ITEMS
Christopher Greaves, of Warwick (Q.),
can surely lay claim to have been Aus-
tralia’s lightest soldier. When at 15 he
was called up for compulsory training
he was recovering from a bout of rheu-
matic fever. His record book shows:
Height, 4ft. s|in. ; chest, 24yin. ; weight,
3st. 13i-lb. Decision of medical officer;
Fit. The hefty footslogger lived two
miles from the drill hall, and over that
distance he was compelled to stagger
back and forth with equipment which
weighed about as much as its bearer.
There is a lot more of Tom Clarke,
now London University’s director of
practical journalism, than there used to
be when he was assistant editor of the
One of Northcliffe’s men.
Melbourne “Herald” 10 years ago, but
in those days his past life had been too
strenuous to allow him to become North-
cliffian in figure, as he is now. Between
his eighteenth and twenty-second years,
Clarke had served on papers in Lewisham
(England) and Hong Kong, had repre-
sented the Chicago “Tribune” in Indo-
China during the Russo-Japanese War,
had visited every country in Asia
and laid the final foundation in Man-
chester of his training for the job of
news editor of the London “Daily
Sketch,” which he took over at 23. He
joined the “Daily Mail” three years after-
wards, and only war service held up his
appointment as news editor till 1919,
since he was soon a trusted Northcliffe
lieutenant. He became managing editor
of Charles Dickens’s old paper, the
“Daily News,” in 1926, and remained in
the chair with a- seat on the board when
the paper amalgamated with the “Daily
Chronicle,” resigning in 1933. Clarke is
a good all-round journalist with a decep-
tive air of simplicity on his good-
humored face. He has been a good
friend to many an Inky Wayfarer in need
of a helping hand in London.
An unusual trophy is the Archibald
Watson prize just founded by the Adel-
aide University. It is to go yearly to
“the medical student found on examina-
tion, after his term of surgical dresser-
ship, to be most proficient in applied
surgical anatomy.” It will consist of six
guineas and a portrait of the founder —
the veteran ex-Prof. of Anatomy Watson,
whose name is almost a legend in Adel-
aide, but who, in his eighties, spends
most of his time in the awful tropic
north.
Big, friendly Stan Sowden, son of
knight William Sowden, died in his
forties the other day. All the States
knew him. Born in S.A., when his father
was the power on the “Register,” he had
much of his early training on the Bris-
bane “Telegraph.” In the last tumul-
tuous days of the old Sydney “D.T.” he
was chief of staff before going to Perth
(W.A.) to edit newspapers there.
If attendance at church is a passport
through the Golden Gates, the hereafter
should be safe 'for William O’Donnell,
who for 30 years has been a church-
warden and honorary secretary of Holy
Trinity Anglican Church, S. Kensington
(N.S.W.). The parishioners gave him a
wallet of notes the other day to celebrate
the fact that he had been present at 4000
services.
William Ah Ket, Victorian barrister,
linguist and classical scholar, is dead at
60. Son of a Wangaratta storekeeper, he
had a brilliant Melbourne University
career, winning the Supreme Court prize
and topping the lists of his year. He
had a solid practice at the Bar, was a
Masonic Grand Lodge member and P.M.
of East Caulfield Lodge, and took a
great interest in all forms of sport. He
leaves an LL.B. son to follow in his foot-
steps, and another who is completing his
medical course.
Old Lord Trevethin, who was drowned
in the River Wye on his native Welsh
border, was a typical English Judge who
liked the good things of life and enjoyed
everything that came his way till the last.
He was Lord Chief Justice for a year or
two just after the war, and before that,
as Sir Alfred Lawrence, he was one of
the best-known justices of the King’s
Bench.
Nobody can claim that Ronald Angas
is not a South Australian—the Angas
family have been graziers there since
1843, and Angaston is named after them.
The original Australian Angas, George
Fife, was a Newcastle-on-Tyne man, a
prosperous retired
shipowner and
merchant when he
was appointed a
commissioner to
form the South
Australian Com-
pany, First his
son, J. H. Angas,
and then he him-
self emigrated per-
manently. They
secured large pas-
toral holdings and
built up a herd of
Bates Shorthorns
which, of their
type, were un-
equalled in the
world in their time.
The Angases have
all been good and
generous citizens.
Ronald, who is 45,
was educated at
St. Peter’s and Magdalen College,
Oxford. He served in the war as a
lieutenant in the Royal Field Artillery,
owns Collingrove and Glen Turret
stations and is a director of several big
Adelaide companies.
The first woman Hunterian professor
at the British Royal College of Surgeons
is Dr, Martin, a Queenslander. She was
also the only woman in England to take
her F.R.C.S. and Master of Surgery de-
grees at one attempt. Her father, Canon
Pughe, was one of the best-known Angli-
can Church identities in the northern
State, and her mother a member of the
pioneer Brodribb family. Mrs. Martin
specialises in eye surgery.
The “Mowles of Minto” finish a re-
markable record of civil service with the
entry upon retiring furlough of P. C.
Mowle, who has been with the Customs
for 48 years. He was the first N.S.W.
Customs officer to be taken over by
the Commonwealth. His grandfather,
who saw Parliament after Parliament
pass as Usher of the Black Rod, was 52
years in the Parliamentary service ; and
his father, who was a well-known metro-
politan chamber magistrate, served 54
years before retirement.
Arrived in Canberra, Walter Kinnear,
Kt., whom the Commonwealth has
brought to Australia to advise' on the
establishment of a national insurance
scheme. Kinnear, since 1919, has been
controller of the British Health Ministry
Insurance Department. He is an Irish-
man educated at the Royal University
of Ireland, who was deputy chairman
of the Irish Insurance Commission, 1911-
17, and chairman of the Navy and Army
Fund, 1917-20.
Lt.-Colonel Harry F. Trew, whose
Botha Treks has been published by
Blackies, is a Victorian, educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar. In 1894 Lord Hope-
toun, then Victorian Governor, made
Trew acting A.D.C., and with him
rode from Lake Corrong to Tyrrell Downs
and back —120 miles in 12 hours, a record
at that time, four horses each being used
by the riders. This feat was undertaken
to beat the Kelly gang’s 100 miles in a
night. In the Boer disturbance Trew
fought under Badeh-Powell and Plumer,
and later was given a commission in the
S.A. Constabulary. He commanded
Botha’s bodyguard in the South-west
African campaign, 1914-15, and in 1922
the Namaqualand Field Force. In 1929
he retired on pension. He is one of the
S’African Film Censors.
As a layman T. J. Hughes, of Perth,
figured in a lot of litigation which the
Westralian Labor Government and cer-
tain of its Ms.L.C. found very awkward
RONALD AN GAS.
and vexing. On
the strength of
being the people's
watchdog, Hughes
was elected M.L.A.
for East Perth,
beating J. J. Kcn-
neally, Minister of
Employment and
for seven years
president of the
Federal Labor
Executive. In
future, if Hughes
becomes a party to
any more lawsuits,
he will be able to
plead his own case
in wig and gown ;
just before he took
his seat in the new
Parliament he was
admitted to the
Bar—a double
event that must be
almost unique. He is a Victorian
by birth, and was an accountant before
he turned lawyer.
A. D. Bruce has celebrated his seven-
tieth year of association with the “N. Z.
Herald,” in which his “Notes by Phaeton”
have been running , for 56 years. His
Australian prototype was Melton, of the
Brisbane “Courier,” who stayed with his
paper for 71 years. The oldest hand in
The Bulletin office is in the composing-
room—Tom Reynolds, who has been
there 53 years. Tom looks as if he will
make the Bruce-Melton records seem
like a week-end.
A. E. Moore, just retired from the
leadership of the Queensland Opposi-
tion, has a worried look in Dubois’s pic-
ture which is foreign to his usual nature.
In the carefree days when he was a junior
member he was the best-liked man in
A Retired Leader.
the Queensland Assembly, always ready
to take the sting out of a heated debate
and bubbling over with wit and good
nature. He was not hard or purposeful
enough to be a successful leader, but
among his followers he was a very popu-
lar one.
The new president of the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Association is
H. S. Henley, of Bassett Downs, Cowra
(N.S.W.). He is the only son of the late
knight Tom Henley, and has inherited
much of his sturdy father’s doggedness.
He represents the graziers on the Sydney
Meat Industry Commission, and is on the
Australian Meat Board. He got his
agricultural grounding at Hawkesbury
College, and now is a well-known stud-
breeder of Dorset Horns and Romney
Marshes.
The young Duke of Grafton is dead
in a motor accident. The Grafton Fitz-
roys —descendants of Charles 11. and
Barbara Villiers —have had a lot of hard
luck lately. The last duke lived to be
80, but his heir, a Coldstreamer lieu-
tenant, was killed while flying in 1918,
when the youngster just dead was only
four years. The family has retained
the dash and debonairness of the
Merry Monarch, and some of its
members have a striking likeness to his
portraits. One was the most popular
early Governor of N. S. Wales. His por-
trait hangs in the Sydney Royal Ex-
change, of which he laid the foundation
stone, and a memorial in a Parramatta
park records that his wife was killed
there in a carriage accident. Queens-
land’s Fitzroy River is, named after him.
His royal antecedents did not prevent
him from accepting a farewell purse of
£2OOO from the colonists, who under his
benign rule had their first taste of real
self-government. The heir to the Grafton
dukedom takes the title of Viscount
Ipswich, after a town which has a sister
in Queensland. Only one Grafton
achieved real distinction —the wicked
Prime Minister whom Junius pilloried.


■ i Vi Ml - r 'mOfmjm
.
■
M
/
: .miw > ■■
■ J'
m
i
mm wmm
■
m
WJwm
mi
.
■:: ■' «"
'■ ",;r
M»
■ -
mm.
‘ rnmmm „w-
-’ <
\
C W-i
’
'
mm
.
*&:*s>&-'U$:
iiiiii
i 3 sn i
p m.swm v,/&»
-0!.' :: ' i *X: :f
I II i
„3gi»«gig^»SW^MW^W
iiS^r
I ; '- ; -
iyi wHA ilii
,
HWHbmI aW 1
j “
“Mummy says—
‘What about your Wolfe’s Schnapps?’
: , :
“
mm
* , , viA‘- ■ VV>
99
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCH NAPPS
“ As good for Women as for Men"
.


SAFEGUARD YOUR ESTATE
BY APPOINTING AS EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL
?
AND AGENCY CO. LTD.
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £948,430
WRITE OR CALL FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET
W. SYDNEY JONES, GENERAL MANAGER. K. M. HUGHES, MANAGER
SYDNEY OFFICE: Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street
HEAD OFFICE: 412 COLLINS STREET - - MELBOURNE
fit
(FCUfOIG
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- ami 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Dividends To
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,055,296
Bank of Victoria absorbed.
Reserves taken over, £850,000 .. 3,905,296
Written Off.
1927.. 556,705 401,817 50,000 4,010,184
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
1929.. 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385.226
81 p.c.
1931.. 441,816 402,816 4,424,220
5* p.c.
1932.. 253,866 260,646 4,417,446
5 p.c.
1933.. 259,077 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256,731 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935.. 263,937 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
6 p.c.
1936.. 298,227 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
For close on a century the very solid
C.B.S. confined its activities to its home
State —where, judged by the size of its
advances and deposits, it ranks second on
the list of associated banks—and Queens-
land. With the absorption of its old
friend the Bank of Victoria early in
1927, it gained a substantial Victorian
business, with small but growing con-
nections in S. Aus.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, earnings lengthened their
stride, thanks mainly to continued expan-
sion of trade activity, which strengthened
the demand for advances, eased the pres-
sure of fixed deposits and gave a little
stiffening to security values generally.
Also, interest rates hardened, and there
was a larger turnover in the exchange
market, owing partly to better prices for
wool and other exports and partly to in-
creased imports. Still, the total sterling
value of external trade was little more
than two-thirds of the 1929 figure.
This partly helps to explain the differ-
ence between bank earnings now and
then. Other factors responsible for the
relatively low level of earnings now in-
clude much lighter returns from London
funds and lower interest rates and rents
and higher taxation locally. However,
the worst of the troubles experienced by
the banks during the last half-dozen diffi-
cult years have been largely overcome.
So, subject to satisfactory seasons and
prices, and given stable government,
further expansion of earnings can be
expected.
After setting aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, the
spring in this co.’s net earnings for the
last term was £34,290. Still, the £298,227
of profit claimed was no more than 3.2
p.c. on total funds (capital and reserves
combined), or 6.2 p.c. on the £4,739,012
of capital alone as against 5.5, 5.4, 5.7,
5.3, 9.3, 13.7 and 13.8 p.c. back to 1929.
The div., which had been steady at 10
p.c. for 31 years to the close of accounts
in 1930, was lifted a point, making it
6 p.c.
The market, which expects a bit better,
prices the £25 shares paid to £l2 10s. (the
other half is callable only in the event of
liquidation) at £2O Bs. as against £lB 18s.
a year ago. The return at £2O Bs. is 3.6
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 4.2 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. distribution.
The bank’s chief service to the com-
munity is as a lender:
1 932. 1935. 1936.
Notes .. .. £13,815 £13,703 £13,669
Bills .. .. 1,158,933 1,173,911 1.121.006
Deposits ..- 44,466,426 49,191,296 49,777,559
ASSETS.
Liquids .'. £18,952,981 £21,469,657 £21,117,982
Advances . . 34,643,037 36,940,268 37,853,871
Premises, etc... 1.515.00O 1 1,247,812 1,231,789
An encouraging growth of £913,603 in
advances was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £586,263 in deposits and a con-
traction of £351,675 in liquids. When
the books closed, liquids amounted to
41.4 p.c. of liabilities to the public,
and the co. was holding approximately
£5 11s. of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
. Dividends \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1926.. 69,606 26 15 p.c. = 19,629 49,951 126,147
Taken from reserves, £8295 .. .. 117,852
1927.. 53,152 26 lo p.c. = 23,472 29.654 147,506
1928.. 37,952 26 15 „ „ 23,472 14,454 161,960
1929.. 26,211 26 12* „ „ 19,560 6,625 168,585
1930.. 20,123 26 10* ~ ~ 15,647 4,450 173,035
1931.. 16,012 26 10 „ „ 15,647 339 173,374
Tax reserve drawn on, £2729.. .. 170,645
1932.. 9,737 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
Tax reserve drawn on, £1666 .. 166,172
1933.. 6,799 13 8 p.c. = 6,259 527 166,699
Tax reserve drawn on, £1249 . . .. 165,450
1934.. 10,123 8 p.c. = 6,259 3,864 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080.. .. 143,234
Tax reserve drawn on, £1663 . . 141,571
1935.. 13,789 8 p.c. = 8,345 5,444 147,015
Tax reserve drawn on, £2490 . . 144,525
1936.. 18,333 8 p.c. = 8,345 9,988 154,513
Commenting on the co.’s latest accounts,
J. L. K. Gifford, lecturer in economics at
Queensland University, said, among
other things:—
Howards not merely reduced their
£10,582 overdraft to nothing, but they had
£7099 of deposits in the bank. They
could have spent this sum of nearly
£lB,OOO in paying higher dividends or in
expanding their business, but they did not.
If this money is not used by some other
business, the effect of Howards’ caution
will be to put a damper on recovery.
When this cautionary mood spreads far
enough we shall slide into the next
depression.
Rubbish! Nothing would drive us into
another depression more quickly than
lack of caution ; it was responsible for
much trouble from which many busi-
nesses are still trying to extricate them-
selves. The truth is that well-handled
concerns like Howards, whose liquid re-
sources have enabled them to extend
more credit than could be obtained from
the banks for the purpose, have done
rahch to hasten recovery.
During the last terra the co. sold some
of its outside investments in order to
finance an increasing number of hire-
purchase accounts. The amount involved
each way is not ascertainable from the
published figures, because the two items,
less something for contingencies, are
lumped in one entry (£149,779, down
£14,181). The sale of securities as well
as the growth of business turnover con-
tributed to the year’s spring of £15,583
in gross earnings (£92,578). Exes.
(£74,245) took £11,039 of the increase,
leaving the net result £4544 better at 17.5
p.c. on capital as against 13.2 p.c. for the
preceding 12 months. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c. (£8345), £3OOO was reserved for
taxation, and £BOOO was earmarked to
cover possible losses from repossessions,
depreciation, guarantees, etc.
In this class of business, discerning
shareholders will not quarrel with such a
policy. That the difference between the
co.’s overdraft and bank credit balance
at the beginning and end of the term
respectively approximated the year’s net
earnings was a coincidence. It is not the
correct method of measuring the amount
that could be distributed in dividends;
they can be paid only out of profits.
Divs. averaged 13.2 p.c. for the seven
years to the close of accounts in
1931. Two years later half the capital
was returned, and in ’34 £26,080 of
bonus scrip was issued, one for three,
which makes 8 p.c. equal to 10.6 p.c,
on capital as it stood before the gift.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
4932. 1934. 1935. 1936
Raid capital. . £156,905 £78,240 £104,320 £104,320
Sundry creditors 2,557 15,863 36,538 25,818
Freehold . . 66,516 66,516 66,516 66,516
Plant, etc. .. 192 530 634 709
Stocks.. .. 49,412 61,178 64,845
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 202,236 142,314 163,960 149,779
Shares in sub-
sidiaries . . 54,517 6,490 3,390 3,140
Cash, etc. . . 16,383 4,414 540 8,006
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
a reduction of £14,181 net in the com-
posite item, enabled £10,720 to be clipped
off the amount coming to outsiders,
£3667 to be added to stocks, and the co.’s
credit balance at the bank to be raised
to £7466. Including stocks but not shares
in subsidiaries, the more or less liquid
surplus (£196,812) was £7672 stronger
than at the previous balance. Provided
the co. banks its takings, profits are avail-
able to finance any business, including its
own, that may require assistance. The
banking system ensures this. At the
moment, too, the banks are anxious to
expand their credit base.
Buyers offer 325. for the fully-paid
pound shares without attracting sellers.
The return at 325. is 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, with prospects. The cover is
visibly 495. Bd. in net tangibles.
Berlei, Ltd.
• Dividends ,
Net Pref. To He- Rc-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 16,332 2635 10 p.c. = 12,265 1432 25,948
1928.. 17,165 2635 10 „ „ 12,382 2148 28,096
1929.. 16.595 2635 10 „ „ 12,479 1481 29.57/
1930.. 13,064 3712 7i „ „ 9,361 29,568
U.S.A. rights sold; intangibles reduced,
£1965 31,533
1931.. 17,629 4000 7i p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
Unexplained additions to reserves, £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9,985 1665 39,760
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,352 323 37,789
Unexplained additions to reserves, £1500.. 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 „ „ 11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
This co. is a good advertisement for the
tariff. About 10 years ago the Burleys
organised an anthropometrical survey of
Australian women, the idea being to
improve the design and fit of the co.’s gar-
ments. Medical advisers evolved standard
types ; then a mechanical type indicator
was devised, enabling both the co. and
retailers to give better service. Mean-
while, improvements in operating and
distributing methods lowered costs, and
the co. now enjoys a lion’s share of the
corset trade in Australia and Maoriland,
while a subsidiary, which promises to give
a good account of itself, has set up a
factory at Slough (Eng.).
Over the last decade shareholders have
had regular divs. averaging 8.7 p.c., the
lowest being p.c., despite slump. With
the improvement in conditions generally,
there have been a steady increase in sales
and a reduction in unit costs. After de-
ducting staff profit-sharing divs. (£1697),
last year’s net earnings (£25,182, up
£5937) were sufficient to pay the pref.
div. (£4000) and show 15.4 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 11, 11.3, 8.2, 8.7, 10.9
and 7.4 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was
lifted from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c., and prospects
of it remaining at the higher figure are
encouraging. Presumably the ladies will
not be forgotten in the distribution of
benefits.
A bonus scrip issue of £2560 received
from the Maoriland subsidiary, which
pays \l\ p.c., was sent direct to reserves.
The experience of the Victorian offshoot
has been similar to that of the parent.
The more youthful one at Slough, though
not yet contributing to the pool, earned
a profit last year, and is extending its
factory to cope with increased orders.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1928. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £157,436 £189,824 £190,057 £190,057
Mortgages .. 26,000 *
Overdraft .. 34,260
Sundry creditors 15,200 6,431 9,571 33,576
Freeholds .. 58,660 32,910* 60,863 60,863
Plant . . 18,314 11,182 10,563 10,052
Investments!.. 33,458 53,174 80,383 82,943
Stocks . . 121,634 87,517 58,848 78,520
Book debts . . 33.838 48,426 34,680 54,550
Cash, etc. . . 2,602 8,194 9,961 5,112
* Mortgage deducted from asset,
f S'hares in subsidiaries.
The growth of £19,870 in debtors’ bal-
ances, £19,672 in stocks and £24,005 in
the amount coming to sundry creditors
further reflects the year’s brisker trading.
The improvement in the more or less
Liquid surplus (£104,606, including stocks)
was £10,688.
The prefs. at 295. (31s. a year ago)
return 5.6 p.c. At 40s. the ords. yield
5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net tan-
gible cover per £1 of capital is £4 19s. 3d.
prefs. and 28s. sd. ords.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. senes.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 13,355 16 p.e. = 12,000 1,355 28,970
1927.. 19,123 18 „ „ 13,500 5,623 34,593
1928.. 15,801 18 „ ~ 13,500 2,301 36,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,613. . 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930.. 17,964 18 „ „ 13,500 4,464 75,695
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 90,695
1931.. 12,277 16 p.c. = 14,099 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 ~ „ 10,800 88,145
1933.. 11,760 12 „ ~ 10,800 960 89,105
1934.. 14,951 12 „ ~ 10,800 4,151 93,256
1935.. 11,973 12 ~ ~ 10,800 1,173 94,429
Staff fund, £844 . . . . • • 93,585
1936.. 12,875 12 p.c. = 10,800 2,075 95,660
Because of the problems associated
with the appointment of private
trustees and the difficulties and dangers
now connected with the administration
of estates, more business is being en-
trusted to the expert care of the trustee
cos. This one, which has been in the
business for the last 48 years, and has
provided from among former directors
half a dozen members of the Victorian
judiciary, does not disclose the volume
of trusts on hand, or separate in the
published accounts amounts received in
interest and other earnings. Still, it is
plain from the next table that the co.
does a substantial and expanding busi-
ness : —•
Gross Exes. p.e.
June, Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17,131 £11,328 66.1
1920 . . 26,673 14,775 55.3
1925 .. 37,467 23,322 62.2
1928 . . 46,963 31,162 62.8
1929 . . 54,856 , 30,632 55.8
1930 . . 52,328 34,364 65.6
1931 . . 47,338 35,061 73.6
1932 . . 43,454 33,382 76.9
1933 .. 45,244 33,484 74.0
1934 .. 49,857 34,906 70.0
1935 .. 50,300 38,327 76.1
1936 . . 51,227 38,631 75.4
Gross earnings have continued to climb
since ’32, thanks to a growing volume of
business, the hardening of real-estate
and other capital values, and to the
strengthening of interest rates and rents.
Last year’s net result (up £902) was 14.3
p.c. on capital, compared with 13.3, 16.6,
13, 11.1, 14, 23.9 and 32.3 p.c. back to
1929. The div., which averaged 17.2
p.c. for the decade to the close of ac-
counts in 1931, was kept at 12 p.c.
When the books closed there was
£95,660 of reserves supporting and assist-
ing £90,000 of paid capital. The lot,
together with a mortgage of £31,612
(there was nothing coming to sundry
creditors), was represented by freehold,
etc., £142,753 ; book debts, £70,085;
cash and deposit at Treasury, £10,109.
The market prices the 50s. shares paid
to 10s. —the other 40s. is callable only
in the event of liquidation —at 295. as
against 345. a year ago. The drop was
due to the hardening of interest rates.
At 295. the return is 4.1 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis, with prospects of a bit more
later on. The net tangible cover is 20s. 7d.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends ~
Prefs. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7-J p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 39,777 9,309 8 p.c.=24,000 6,468 7,466
Added to intangibles. £3750 .. 3,716
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000 4,547 8,263
1928.. 54,833 22,500 7„ „ 21,000 11,333 19,596
1929.. 47,496 22,500 6i„ .. 19,500 5,496 25,092
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24,042
1931.. 321 Nil Nil 321 24,363
1932.. 1,692 Nil Nil 1,692 26,055
4 p.c.
1933.. 9,833 20,594* Nil 15,294
1934.. 12,807 25,594* Nil 2,507
Deficit.
1935.. 13,057 25,594* Nil 10,030
1936.. 19,863 25,594* Nil 15,761
*4 p.c. from l/12/’32 plus £13,594 towards arrears.
The business expanded so rapidly dur-
ing the boom that the co. had little
opportunity of adequately strengthening
its shock-absorbers —its visible and other
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


THE EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS,
AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
“Companies Act 1928“
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir EDWARD F. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman.
Sir STEPHEN MORELL, K. 8., Vice-Chairman.
Hon. H. ALAN CURRIE, M.L.C.
E. F. HERRING, Esq., K.C. ALLAN SPOWERS, Esq.
Hon. R. G. MENZIES, K.C., M.P.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
For Presentation to the Eighty-first Ordinary General Meeting of Share-
holders, to be Held on Thursday, the I 3th day of August, 1936.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Eighty-first Report.
The accompanying balance sheet shows a net
esteemed colleague, Mr. Joel Fox. Mr. Fox was Manager of the Company from its
inception in 1888 until he resigned in 1933, when he was appointed a Director.
The Board desire to place on record their belief that Mr. Fox by his ability and
wholehearted devotion to the affairs of the Company very largely helped to put it
in its present highly satisfactory position.
The Right Hon. Sir John G. Latham, P.C., G.C.M.G., on his elevation as Chief
Justice of Australia, resigned his office as Director, which he had held for over 1 5
years, and during which period he rendered most valuable services to the Company
and took the closest interest in its affairs and well-being.
Shareholders will be pleased to learn that the Hon. R. G. Menzies, K.C., M.P.,
and Mr. E. F. Herring, K.C., have accepted seats on the Board rendered vacant b>
the resignation of Sir John G. Latham and the death of Mr. Ivor Evans.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Hon. R. G. Menzies and
Mr. E. F. Herring retire at this meeting, but are eligible and offer themselves for
re-election. .
By order of the Board,
C. T. MARTIN, Manager.
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1936
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-200.000 shares
of £2/10/-
each .... £500,000 0 0
Less unissued 50,000 0 0
£450,000 0 0
Less uncalled 360,000 0 0
Capital paid up in money .... £90,000 0 0
Mortgage of Company’s freehold
and accrued interest 31,611 11 3
Reserve fund 80,000 0 0
Profit and loss account 21,335 14 8
£222,947 5 11
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the Assets
of the respective Trusts (see
contra) £110,261 0 7
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the
Treasurer of Victoria £lO,OOO 0 0
Real Estate, Bourke Street prop-
erty, at cost 140,031 0 2
Cash in hand and at bankers .. 108 18 9
Sundry debtors for Commis-
sions, etc. (after providing
for bad and doubtful debts) 70,085 4 4
Fixtures, Fittings, Office Furni-
ture and Chattels (after pro-
j viding for depreciation) 2,722 2 8
£222,947 5 11
Moneys advanced to Trust
Estates, for which Assets of
the Trusts are held by the
i Company (see contra) £110,261 0 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the Year Ended 30th June, 1936.
To Directors’ and Auditors’ fees,
Salaries, Advertising, Station-
ery, Office and other expenses £33,214 1 2
To Rates and Taxes, including
Federal and State Income and
Land Taxes 3,809 17 8
To Mortgage Interest, etc 1,352 9 3
To Staff Provident Fund ...... 844 2 9
To Balance, Net Profit for year,
carried down 12,306 10 9
£51,527 1 7
By Commissions, Rents, Interest
on Investments, etc., after
providing for contingencies ..
£51,527 1 7
£51,527 1 7
1936 —Ist February.
To Interim Dividend of 6 per
cent £5,400 0 0
1936—30th June.
To Balance 21,335 14 8
£26,735 14 8
1935 —30th June.
By Balance
Less further
Dividend of
6 per cent. .. £5.400 0 0
Less writing
10 per cent,
off Office Fur-
niture Ac-
count 275 0 0
1936 —30th June
By Net Profit for year, as
above
£20,104 3 11
£5,675 0 0
£14,429 3 11
12,306 10 9
J he Certificate by Directors and the Auditors’ Report and Certificate,
required by the Companies Act 1928, accompany the Official Report
and Balance Sheet,
H
E
R
E
#
S
CL*
■HOW !
m
-gga^afe
How what? How to make a perfect party: Get together in a
pleasantly large room a number of young people of all ages,
distributed fairly evenly as regards the sexes. Mix ample
quantities of VICKERS and Vermouth and what have you?
Let the result circulate freely and the party take its course.
ICKERS
GIN
F A MODS 51 N C E 17 SO
lfl/Sd Cat
fHontMp
■- ,
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
August Issue Now on Sale.
THE TARIFF AND THE CONSTITUTION
A Market Review
AUSTRALIA’S PRODUCTION PROSPECTS
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY. OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H, Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Go.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 188 S to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. ,S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
IN
PIT
ST
JF there were a Mazda lamp over
the head of your bed you'd be
able to read without straining your
neck or your eyes and you
could put out the light without
getting out of bed.
reserves. During the seven years to the
close of accounts in 1928, over half a
million was added to advances, the out-
side debt increased by £154,499 net, and
£361,630 of fresh share capital was
gathered, making the total £600,000,
which was visibly supported by accumu-
lations £19,596 in excess of goodwill
(£27,000). When the bump came with
the break in the markets and in earning
power, debtors’ balances (the most liquid
of them) had to be worked down and
the amount coming to outsiders reduced ;
and payments to the prefs. (150,000 As
and a like number of Bs, which used to
carry a cumulative p.c.) were
£54,375 behind at the end of 1932. To
ease the strain, the div. was lowered to
4 p.c., with the right to advance with the
ords. beyond that point to 1\ p.c. and
to share in future issues of bonus scrip,
if any. The arrears have been wiped out
by four annual payments of £13,594 each
from reserves.
During the last term wool averaged
£l5 15s. 4d. per bale in Adelaide as
against £lO 16s. lid. for the preceding
season. So, although fewer bales were
put under the hammer, the co.’s gross
earnings (£83,936, after providing for
contingencies) sprang £13,382. Exes.
(£64,073) took £6576 of the increase,
leaving the net result £6806 stronger at
£19,863. This was enough to pay the
prefs. 4 p.c. and show 2.6 p.c. on the
£300,000 of ord. capital. Actually the
prefs. got 8y p.c., of which 4j p.c. was
in respect of arrears, now wiped out.
Reserves were drawn upon for £5731,
leaving £15,761 of the capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it;
1928. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Sundry creditors 380,068 296,805 234,507 232,428
Freeholds, plant,
stock, etc.. . 114,113 106,524 109,054 106,343
Advances & bills 904,429 796,196 705,764 699,289
Investments and
cash .. 18,373 20,291 20,458 21,036
To meet payments to the prefs. and chip
£2079 oft' the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., advances were reduced by
£6475 net. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£487,897) was
£3BlB.
With arrears of pref. divs. out of the
way, the co. will have a better oppor-
tunity of strengthening its armor. As
for the outlook, seasonal prospects are
bright enough ; chief doubt is about the
price wool will fetch.
The market prices the A shares round
14s. 6d. and the Bs at 13s. The return
at these figures is 5.5 p.c. and 6.1 p.c.
respectively on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The
more speculative ords. are priced at 7s.
3d. The net tangible cover is £3 17s. 7d.
As, £2 17s. 7d. Bs, 18s. lid. ords.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co., which
manufactures in Victoria, earned net
profits of £34,020 in 1935-36, as against
£13,940 in 1934-35. The showing was
over 18 p.c. on average capital at work
during the term, and the div. was raised
from 6} p.c. to 10 p.c. The fully-paid
ords. are changing hands at 405., a
big rise since the beginning of the year.
The directors report expanding sales in
all States and Maoriland.
* * * 4=
Australian gold production continues
to expand. For the first half of 1936
it was 524,151 fine ounces, or 135,886
fine ounces more than for the corre-
sponding half of 1935, when a strike in
Westralia affected the output there:
, Six Months to June 30—,,
1934. 1935. 1936.
Westralia .. .. 316,331 261,156 381,137
Queensland . . . . 54,500 54,489 54,858
Victoria . . .. 34,771 42,048 52,211
Others* .. 23,787 30,572 35,945
Totals 429,389 383,265 524,151
* Estimated.
Resumption at Mt. Coolon was mainly
responsible for growth in the Queens-
land figures.
In a report to the Federal Government
on goldmining, Herbert Gepp suggests
that Australians should employ more of
their savings in the industry. “Goldmin-
ing,” he says, “seems to be a compara-
tively stable investment for some time to
come.” This may be true of established
ventures, with development well ahead
of the mill, provided national currencies
remain near their present levels of ex-
change, and provided costs don’t get out
of hand. Speaking broadly, there are
three stages forming a natural sequence
in the commercial exploitation of ore
deposits. These are prospecting, develop-
ment and mining. When a mineral de-
posit has been found, and before it has
been proved to be a commercial propo-
sition of definite size and value, it is
called a prospect. The next step is to prove
the existence, or prospects of the exist-
ence, of enough pay-ore to warrant in-
troduction of more capital. Thus a
mining proposition, especially, reef gold-
mining, might be classed as a gamble,
a speculation or an investment. Much
depends upon the risk which the owner
of savings is prepared or can afford to
take with his money.
* * * *
When Zinc Corp., one of the Big
Three at the Barrier (N.S.W.), was
formed in July, 1911, half a million tons
of ore was in sight. After extracting
over four million tons there is still over
three million tons above the 1832 ft.
level. Divs. paid to date work out at
just on £1 per ton of ore extracted.
Exploratory bores indicate that the lode
maintains its value and dimensions for
at least 600 ft. below the 1832 ft. level. 1
Each 100 ft. of lift is expected to give
900.000 tons of additional ore —say 15
years’ work for the present mill for the
600 ft. New works (shaft, mill and asso-
ciated buildings) have been planned
(cost, about £A500,000), and the co.
has the money. The new shaft, 13ft. by
27ft. 6in., is to be sunk to 2500 ft., and
the new mill is to have a greater
capacity than the present one. Chair-
man Robert Horne said that the Port
Pirie plant was the largest and most
efficient lead smeltery in the world.
* * * :Jt
For the 13 months to the end of March
Melbourne-controlled Satupulo, operat-
ing at Takuapa, West Siam, treated
1.664.000 c.y. for 344 tons t. 0., valued at
£54,823, of which £26,015 was profit. The
result was £4157 lighter than the previous
year’s, owing mainly to a rise in costs
(4.75 d. per yard as against 4.36 d.). Divs.
took £25,470 —10 p.c. to the prefs. for
18 months, and then 3s. a share all round.
The prefs. (£10,500 in a paid capital of
£159,300) carry a cumulative 10 p.c., after
which they participate equally with the
ords. For the three months since the
close of accounts, the dredge, working in
virgin ground, has turned over 367,000
c.y. for 61.3 tons t.o.
Profitable returns are being obtained
from small rich veins in some of the old
mines on the Ravenswood field (N.Q.).
On the Rose of Allendale, which is down
56ft. on Sin. of good ore at water level,
a pumping plant is being installed. At
the Duke, trial crushings have averaged
but water is hampering operations.
A hanging-wall reef at Gambler’s Luck
prospects 2oz. A recent crdshing from
the Quarrien returned \\oz. per ton ;
here the reef averages 18in. Water has
stopped work at the Sunset. Miners at
Ravenswood are handicapped by heavy
expenses. One party sent 57 tons to Chil-
lagoe for a gold return of £204 ; exes.,
including railage, cartage, etc., came to
£234.
* * * *
In the Gladstone (Q.) district, where
gold was first discovered in 1853, most
of the old fields are being raked over
again. Nothing startling has yet resulted.
At Cania the Shamrock has sft. of ore
in the bottom of the shaft, and a winze in
the -north level is showing a 20in. for-
mation ; underneath is a 2ft. reef, with
a 12in. reef under that again. Some loz.
ore is expected. At Monal the Lady
Griffiths, a profitable producer 40 years
ago, is yielding a little ounce stulf, while
crushings from the True Blue are ex-
pected to return between Roz. and 2oz.
per ton. There the reef averages 12in.
in width. The Herbert brothers are also
opening up a promising gold-copper
show. Shortage of water is interfering
with operations throughout the district.
* * * *
New Chum Syncline, Bendigo (Vic.),
which cut the cap of a “highly mineral-
ised'’ saddle-reef at 443 ft., discloses a
loss on development account of £2346 for
the six months to May 31. During this,
period attention was given mainly to
testing the reef at the 212 ft. level and on
the intermediate level 50ft. below. Values
were not good enough, and it is now pro-
posed to sink the main shaft to 519 ft.,
opening out at 500 ft. At May 31 current
assets stood £294 in excess of liabilities.
* * ♦. , *
When Lancefield shareholders collect
the September Is. div. they will have re-
ceived £lOO,OOO since the co. started treat-
ment in March last year. Mining men
who have recently seen the property like
the co.’s prospects. : Gold worth over 11-
millions has been taken out of Lancefield
in the last 40 years. It was first worked
by a party the leader of which hailed
from Lancefield (Vic.). Between 1899
and 1912, when it was operated by a
London co., the mine produced
201,9140 z., and from 1914 to 1922, when
a local syndicate of mine managers was
in possession, it yielded a ■ further
157,0000 z. The property then remained
idle until two or three years ago, when
the present co. was formed.
* * * *
Although Boulder Perseverance (W.A.)
has produced £10,000,000 worth of gold
and paid £2,000,000 in dividends the
property has many years of life ahead of
it yet, according to Captain Broadbridge,
one of the London directors, who
recently visited the mine. However,
money will have to be spent on recon-
ditioning the surface plant, and the time
has come for installation of new air-
compressors, at a cost of between £12,000
and £15,000. Compared with com-
pressed-air costs on adjoining mines,
Perseverance figures are ludicrous. Bread-
bridge is convinced that the co. has at
depth a considerable amount of ore
which could be profitably treated at the
preseht price of gold. In the past the
management feared to go below 2200 ft.
on account of what was called the calc-
schist bogey. Other cos. working adja-
cent mines have gathered profits out of
the calc-schist.
* -\i * *
The contraction in Sons of Gwalia’s
profit and treatment figures last year was
the outcome of industrial trouble and a
skip derailment early in the term. Ore
reserves are expanding, and output is
back to normal again. There is every
prospect of “a gratifying surplus” from
the current year’s operations, and if all
goes well “shareholders may receive a
substantial interim dividend in time for
Christmas,” the chairman says. The co.
has already declared an interim dividend
of Is. in respect of the current term.
* * * *
Gold Exploration and Finance, the
London-controlled concern which con-
solidated the Australian interests of half
a dozen other cos. in 1934, reports en-
couraging developments at Kalgoorlie,
Norseman and Gt. Fingall (W.A.), and
at Bendigo (Vic.). At Kalgoorlie, where
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie is opening up
the old Iron Duke and Australia East
leases, plans are being prepared for erec-
tion of a 100,000-ton-a-year mill. Cen-
tral Norseman’s leases promise to give
better results than at first expected, and
mill capacity is to be lifted to 70,000
tons p.a. Exploratory drilling on the
Golden Crown reef, Great Fingall, has
indicated a probable .80,000 tons of
lOdwt. ore to a depth of 1000 ft. Bendigo
Mines, Ltd., and its subsidiaries have
crushed 2356 tons of development ore,
averaging 5.76dwt., and the. first section
of a 30-head battery is being erected.
* * , * *
Western Mining Corp. is getting good
returns from Cox’s Find, near Laver-
ton (W.A.). June output was 8290 z. of
bullion from 717 long tons. Value in
Australian currency was £6732.
“Ess”: One tangible result of the
Western Mining Corp.’s aerial prospect-
ing scheme in Westralia was a presenta-
tion to the local council of a composite
photograph of Kalgoorlie taken from a
height of 1200 ft. A representative of the
co. said it was hoped that the survey, com-
pleted, a year or so ago, would show
results. It was a “question of interpre-
tation.”
* * *■ *
E. Faye, chairman of the group of De
Bernales cos. in Australia, says Aus-
tralian headquarters is London House,
Perth, not Melbourne, as stated by a
section of the daily press. He adds that
only one of the cos. formed to supervise
the De Bernales interests is operating in
the Eastern States, and that F. R. Lee,
Melbourne, is attorney for that concern.
* sis ,*
Westralian Mining Association has de-
cided to hold a goldmining exhibition in
Perth towards the end of this year. Mines
Department and principal mineowners
are co-operating, and space has been
booked for many exhibits of specimen
ore and mining plant and machinery.
* :j; * *
London controllers of Westralian gold-
mining cos. are making an attempt to get
together again. The rock on which they
split in the past was policy in connec-
tion with labor troubles. This- lime J. A.
Agnew, P. E. Marmion, F. H. Hamilton,
C. de Bernales, A. H. Marker, W. A.
Macleod and others who boss the big
gold-producers of the West have agreed
to stand or fall together.
-Is sis sjs ' S|S _
Gold worth over £7,000,000 has been
recovered from prospectors’ and lease-
holders’ ore by the Westralian State
batteries ; over £6,000,000 was obtained
by amalgamation, and the balance by
cyanidation. Most of the mills are going
full bat, and so are the adjacent pubs;
* * sjc * . j ;
Transvaal goldmining cos. do things in
a big way. Crown milled over four million
tons in 1935, and the gold return was
the highest on record. Ore reserves were
25,000,000 tons, assaying a shade oyer
sdwt. Steps are being taken to mine
down to a vertical depth of 8500 ft. Gov-
ernment Mining Areas, another levia-
than, has crushed 40,000,000 tons to date
and paid nearly £20,000,000 in dividends.
Ore reserves aggregate over 11,000,000
tons of a little under 7dwt. value.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Hj # Hs *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTJIALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * ’ * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited. 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.


Hi
:-x : .
yw
I
■
»
mgM-
IR
n
*
H
IS
SSkH
poti*
wstosr :
■
I
1
Wj
ERE
■
1#
:
IM
W
m.
%
Hi
I
IM
Wit'-#
v msm
■ ■■■
mm
mm
U
£fotcft49i
d
■. • ■••
m
• ■ •
3^
mm ■
V
n
i
fine liqueur
It was not always in a bottle, this White Horse Whisky of yours. For years
and long years it slept in a cask, untouched and untroubled, unhurried by
time. Slowly changing, slowly mellowing, slowly growing old. While its aroma
grew rare and delicate, while its touch on the tongue became gentle as dew,
while its fire sank and spread to a genial glow. Until it could come to your
glass and your judgment, as fine as a fine liqueur.
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
y
WH 7A-36,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Groper”: An idyll of the Boulder
Block. Four hash foundries once graced
its precincts and, there being no back-
yards, the indispensable slop tanks rested
with considerable publicity on the outer
terrain. Silvaire the dish-washer, aspir-
ing to the hand of Biddy the tea-waitress,
slapped her sportively as she passed, to
meet reprisal in the shape of an inac-
curately-aimed lump of soap which
found unseen lodgment in the cauldron
of soup just ready for the midday rush.
There was Hades to play when fifty
hungry miners, lapping at their bouillon,
acquired the saponaceous flavor. Being
the only official soap-user in the kitchen,
Silvaire was accused, found guilty and
incontinently dismissed. “You give me
de sack, mister,” he hissed. “1 have
revenge. I show you down.” Gather-
ing an audience he proceeded to (he
slop-tank and, fishing into its depths,
resurrected a whole bullock’s head, horns
intact and fragments of skin still cling-
ing, which had obviously served as the
foundation for numerous previous
courses of soup.
* * * *
“Tauwarra”: One of the problems
which beset the game fisherman who
rides his hobby off the beaten track is
that of weighing his catch. The ten-
dency is to overestimate the weight of
the big fellows. A knowledgeable long-
shore fisherman recently introduced me
to a formula which he claimed to be
sanctioned by long usage among anglers
the world over and also mathematically
accurate: “Square the girth in inches,
multiply by the length in inches, and
divide by 800.” Is there anything in it?
*‘* * “ *
“Matjc”: Ever met the underground
edition of the mug in the bush—the
miner who loses his sense of direction?
Digging in the deep on the Clermont
field (Q.) my mate broke away another
drive from the shaft to head off a floater
that was causing him a deal of concern.
So confident was he following the fly-
specks that he could not suppress his
mystification when he drove the moil
into void, and his cry brought me scutt-
ling to witness the new find. Nor could
he be convinced that that strange
luminosity was the light of his own candle
reflected in the shaft!
* * * *
“Willaura”; Maybe there’s something
in faith-healing after all. Rabbit-trapping
outback, my mate developed a tempera-
ture and a nasty cough and kept to his
bunk. Returning from my even-
ing round of inspection I found him
sleeping peacefully. Next morning he
rose bright and early and seemed normal
again. He explained that in my absence
he had found six aspirins in a bottle and
they had done the trick. Then I recalled
that, cleaning-up the motor-cycle with an
old shirt, I had removed the six buttons
for future use, popping them in an empty
aspirin bottle.
$ v 'k
“Wailani”: As one who has breasted
the sand-billows of inland Australia on
the slowest and the fastest, the most
savage and most docile, the most grace-
ful and most grotesque beast of burden
on earth, I collected camel records, and it
will be news to me if an Arab steed could
make them look foolish. Ahmeen Khan,
well-known on the Cloncurry-Cooper’s
Creek tracks, once brought down the
ballot-box from Innamincka to Farina
(S.A.) —280 miles of sandhills —in two r nd
three-quarter days. There is another old
Hajji camped at Alice Springs who beat
the Alice-Oodnadatta time limit before
the railway went through—34o miles in
three and three-quarter days. The cow-
camel, Maggie, died thirty years after,
and I condoled with him over her remains.
For a bet and a bit of bravado a
jackeroo galloped a splay-footed charger
from Boolgardie station to Kingoonya,
150 miles, in two rounds of the clock.
I thought that one right on the edge of
the long bow. Now I find that Snake,
camel of camels, bought for 200 guineas
by Thomas Fleer from the Emir of Kabul,
made an urgent journey from Beltana
south to Port Augusta, 160 miles, in 20
hours. And after a few buckets of water
and a few hours’ rest he showed that it
was not a fluke by making the return
in the same time with (he doctor on
board as an extra passenger.
=!• , * *
“P.M.”: My youngsters have a private
zoo consisting of two cats, an Irish
terrier and an Alsatian. The four were
quarrelling, as usual, when one of the
boys brought along a lame jackass and
dropped him in the yard. There were
only two bites in it; first the Alsatian bit
at Jacky, then Jacky bit the Alsatian.
When Jacky looked round for something
else to bite the yard was empty.
“Dr. Watson”: If all the Sherlocks
have finished telling how to pick a bush-
man from a townman I’ll end off with
this simple and infallible test. Watch ’em
go for a drink. The bushman will always
tilt the bucket and pour the water into
the pannikin; the other fellow will dip
the pannikin in the bucket. Another
test is with a neck-bag. The city cove
will put his mouth to the nozzle of the
bag; the mulga-trained one will pour
the water from the bag to his pint.
“Lissadel”: Regarding paragraphs
about alleged remains of Leichhardt’s lost
expedition, I very much doubt the exist-
ence of that iron box which the natives
are supposed to be unable to open. They’d
open it all right! Back in the Hall’s
Creek days vehicles by the dozen were
abandoned on the tracks, and the abos.
stripped them of every scrap of metal.
Knowing no other method of metal-
working than grinding, they nevertheless
contrived to cut even the thick tyres and
tempered springs into handy lengths and
fit them as axe blades in place of
previous lumps of quartz. This they did
inside a few months —and they’ve had
something like 80 years to operate on
that iron box.
“Horsetailer”: Many Queensland rivers
from Charters Towers to Cape York
Peninsula carry platypuses. But 99 p.c. of
visitors to these rocky riverside spots
would never know of their presence unless
they fluked one on a fishing-line. To see
the duckbill you have to lie still out
along an overhanging bough for some
time before his dark form appears and
frisks about below the surface. At the
slightest movement he is gone. Some time
ago I met a prospector who had carried
around for two years a number of these
animals’ skins while trying to find an
illicit market. He couldn't; so, for-
tunately, the safety of this strange species
seems, at last, assured.
■ Beorg ": Bush pub-keepers seem to be
the most prolific slogan-makers. I sup-
pose that one in every three of the
bars in which I shelter out of wet, heat,
dust, fog or cold has a slogan, tacked up
on the wall. But the best I have seen is
painted on the water-trough outside the
Belair Hotel (S.A.). It reads: “Give
your horse a drink and have two
yourself! ”
“Del Norte”: “Centre's” 20-foot bask-
ing sharks (B. 8/7/’36) are mere infants ;
his 35-footers not yet in the first flush of
youth. One old gentleman of the species
has his beat off Redscar Head (Papua).
The late Rev. H. M. Dauncey, of the
L.M.S., first reported him 45 years ago.
and he has been sighted by dozens of
reputable observers at frequent intervals
ever since. According to natives of those
parts, he was an old identity when their
grandfathers wore the Papuan equivalent
of short pants. He goes 50ft. Few
anglers agree as to what constitutes a
“game” fish (perhaps “sporting” fish is a
better term), but it is safe betting that
none will include the basking shark.
Picture the docile monster, flabby of body
and small of mouth, drifting sluggishly
on the surface, feeding on the micro-
scopic organisms which live in the warm
ocean currents, screening them through
his gill-slits after the manner of certain
of the whales, harmless to man and to
all other fish —no right-minded sports-
man, however ardent, would attempt to
hook him. It wouldn’t be fair. And,
short of ramming the baited hook down
his gullet with a pick-handle, it wouldn’t
be possible.
“Kriz”: This talk about Zane Grey
and the whoppers along the Barrier Reef
gives me a pain. If you really want to
see big fish go to the north-west of
Groperland. A few years ago a half-
caste fishing off the Broome jetty got a
“hit.” He played -it for the best part of
an hour, and eventually the catch was
swung on to the deck of the old Bambra
by the ship’s winch. The tiddler proved
to be a rock-cod, and its head alone
weighed 2201 b., the rest of the carcass
going 12001 b. The half-caste, a six-
footer and big in frame, was photo-
graphed, and he looked a dwarf along-
side it.
“The 0.D."; Those big olive-trees with
the “dead black,” plum-sized fruit of “an
unpleasantly bitter taste not in the least
like imported pickled olives” (B. l/7/’36)
are producing perfectly good fruit. Any
Mildura (Vic.) citizen can tell you of the
perennial joke played on newcomers to
that district, who are advised to try the
attractive-looking large pickling olives.
Gall is not so bitter as these, nor worm-
wood, yet pickled they are the equal of
anything imported, a joy to the epicure
and a wonder to him who acquires the
taste.
“Eureka”: The new hand fired several
shots at rabbits, but in each case the
bullet kicked up the dust about twenty
yards past the rabbit. “That’s the worst
of. being so strong,” he remarked to
Dave. “I pull the trigger far too hard.”
“Old-timer”: It was during a heavy
flood in the Murray, and the old
Struggler, loaded with fruit from Tapalin,
was sweeping with the current down the
ninety-mile bend. The mid and lower
Murray varied in width from a mile to
40 miles, and in the open country, where
the banks had disappeared, steering by
night was a strain, as any wide opening
in the timber-line might be the main
channel—or might not. One Sunday
morning the skipper was amazed to find
the boat swinging into the reach above
Minduk, when he should have been at
least a day from there. About sun-up
the boat became cantankerous, was hard
to steer, and slowed down. Profane in-
quiries into the stokehole brought the
equally-profane answer that a big head
of steam was on and the paddles going
like blazes. Soon the astonishing fact was
evident that the current was overtaking
the boat. Old Dick, the cook, thought
it was a whirlpool without a whirl; the
skipper took a landing-pole and prodded
the muddy water to no effect; all this
time with steadily-churning paddles the
Struggler continued to struggle and weave
erratically across the stream. Then a
fence-post stuck its head up on the star-
board side, looked at them and bobbed
under. More posts indulged in the same
game, and two mysteries were explained.
The boat had taken a wrong turn during
the night, cut straight across a bend and
picked up about ten chains of flood-
wrecked fence with her rudder. As she
moved downstream post after post pulled
out of the flooded ground and her tail
of wire and timber grew ever longer. It
was the strength of . a strainer hidden
deep under the water half a mile back
that finally brought her to a stop.
% :'fi ❖
“Jachris”: May I come in on this
sheep's cry business (B. 29/7/’36)? My
qualifications? Nine months’ experience
as a youngster cutting out lambs from
drovers’ mobs passing through Mun-
gindi—those days I built the nucleus of
a flock I hoped would help set me up as
a big-gun station-owner —and the more
recent proprietorship of a ram which
kept the grass down in the backyards of
our street So far none of the Aboliars
has managed to get that nerve-racking
bleat (I had an Alsatian hooked up to a
kennel while the lawnmower reamed the
yard, and you can’t tell me Alsatians are
gentle with sheep) down on paper, though
“F.YJ’s” Me-h-h comes nearest. It’s
M-m-m-eh-r.
“Kali”: How's this for a record?
Arthur Schute, of Bundeena (Sydney),
recently took from one of his pots a
lobster that was covered with barnacles.
The ancient crustacean turned the scales
at 181 b. after being cooked.
“Mad Mullocker”: The boss used to
poison crows with phosphorus put in
meat baits at the stockyards. He was
puzzled when the chooks started to die
off, as the baits were well out of their
reach. Enlightenment came after a vigi-
lant morning. The crow, when he felt
a warm glow within, made straight for
the water-tin, had a guzzle and brought
up the bait.
SPRING SONG.
The wattles by the creek have thrown about
their heads a cloak of gold,
And in the orchard every twig has tiny flower-
buds half-unrolled;
The hills are dyed a richer green, the vagrant
swallows reappear;
The earth is waking from its sleep, for spring
will soon be here.
The magpies troll a wilder note and swoop in
fierce maternal rage;
And new-born lambs toss sportive tails and
gambol round the pasturage :
The sun has traced a wider arc, the westerlies
are not so drear,
And eastern slopes are almost warm, so spring
must soon be here.
the mountain snows are shrinking fast to swell
the lusty, brimming creek;
The mud that squelched and oozed and
splashed has clung and caked for quite a
week.
The feel of spring is in the air, the signs
of it are crystal-clear,
But next hnonth when the cows come in we’ll
know that spring is here.
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNET.


“Beorg”: Recognition of objects at
great distances? We were sitting on the
verandah of an S.A. country pub. A
speck crossed the distant hill. “Reckon
that’s Bluey from up at the Ridings,”
ventured the publican. Soon two more
specks crossed the hill. “An’ there’s
Cissy Whelan, and that’ll be the long
bloke from the Bluff with him.” I
strained my eyes, but only saw dots that
might be men on horseback or on bikes.
After a while Bung rose and went inside.
Then a red-headed man arrived from the
direction of the hill, and after him came
a delicate-looking individual and a
tall man. When they had gone into the
bar my companion jerked his thumb at
the doorway. “Yairs,” he observed. “He
always sets his watch by them three.
Every day at the same time, first Bluey
and then the other two.”
’t' 'l* $ '!-
“Warrigal”; “Anyone remember how
to plait a four-strand round?” demanded
Wirewhiskers as he produced a broken
thong attached to Lis whip-handle. We
all did, of course, until we tried, as is
usual in such cases. Wirewhiskers had
to have a whip, so the oiled greenhide
ended as a four-strand flat plait, as is
also usual in similar emergencies. The
next stage, however, was off the beaten
track. He had to get his convoy across
"Ere, y ’ selfish cow. I'm on bathroom-cleanin' t'-day !”
a rising ford, and landed back with the
entire works dry and, with the exception
of the lash and cracker, wound tightly
round his neck. “What’s the idea?” de-
manded a mug. “Brought it home to give
to the swine that plaited it,” growled
Wirewhiskers. “Ought to make a damned
good watchspring for somebody.”
“Pop-stick”; When first the rifled .22
came to W.Q. a party of ’roo-shooters
was having a holiday in Jundah. Those
toys in the window of a store aroused
their derision. They bought one and a
stock of bullets and evolved a new game
with them. The fellow who was “it”
“ Cripes, Dingo Dorkins is gettin a lot of fan-mail since ’e
donged them two Johns!”
stood in the middle of the street; the
others were ’roos. The game was that the
’roos should start from Poddy Atkins’s
pub on one side of the street and hop
across to the bar at MacKenzie’s while
the chap who was “it” took flying shots
at ’em. If any ’roo was hit he had to
shout for the mob. If “it” missed the
lot he had to spar up. Such was the
potency of back-country grog then that
“it” had to shout every time. While
those simple souls were enjoying them-
selves a mob of town goats strolled
across. “It” and the ’roos gathered round
to see how high one of those small
pellets could lift a goat. They soon
found out —when they examined the
corpse! The game came to an abrupt
end.
* * *
“Harpooner’s T.0.L.”: Those killers
that used to answer to their names (B.
20/5/’36) at Twofold Bay had nothing
on a baby whale we adopted at the old
whaling station just outside Albany
(W.A.). Having seen its parents har-
pooned before its eyes the poor little
orphan (it didn’t weigh more than ten
tons at the time) kept swimming around,
so helpless and homeless that Big Tom,
our skipper, took pity and decided to
adopt it. With a few hundred feet of
torpedo net obligingly left on the beach
by H.M.S. Cerebus on one of her periodic
cruises in search of the Russian navy, we
soon had a yard rigged, and the playful
little cetacean inside. With a force pump,
a few yards of hose and all the milk that
the district for 20 miles around could
supply we got to work. Didn’t it grow!
And wasn’t it intelligent! Big Tom named
it Tiny, and it’d come for its milk just like
a poddy calf. In little more than two
years it was a fifty-tonner. Then Big
Tom told us his real scheme —to use it
as a decoy to fetch whole schools up
from Antarctica. It worked. Sent out
in the spring Tiny would be back in the
autumn with a school of roundbacks that
made you think of the mullet schooling.
And when Big Tom gave the hoy he’d
lead a selection of fats right into the
corral. We were flooding the world
market with blubber and prices were fall-
ing when, as might have been expected,
the Yanks turned nasty. They practically
owned the Pacific at the time and would
stand no rivalry. Sending back home
they engaged a nice flapper whale that
had been performing with Barnum’s
circus and turned her loose just when
Tiny was coming north with his annual
mob. Being just a roughneck ocean
whale and she an educated flapper-
well, he just couldn’t resist, and our pros-
pective fortunes, together with all Big
Tom’s patient teaching, went into the try-
pots of Kangaroo Island.
“Mr. Chucks”; “N. Gineer’s” idea of
a Tom Fool’s knot (B. 8/ 7 / ’36) is what
one would expect from a “tiffy.” There
is no centre loop—only one on each side
of the knot proper into which the hands
of the prisoner can be slipped, the free
ends of the rope or line then being drawn
light and all made fast with a reefer. No
need for elaborate fastenings to the
patient’s legs and arms if he is
recalcitrant. Instead of slipping the
loops over his wrists, substitute a bit
of lashing for the rope and put them on
his thumbs with his hands behind his
back. Five minutes of this will convince
the toughest that the game is up. Don’t
keep the loops on too long or the thumbs
may drop off.
* * * *
“Tauwarra”: The local funny mer-
chant at Billy the Cook’s (Samarai) was
exercising his wit on the native waiter.
“What’s this, boy?” he demanded in an
ominous voice. “This fella pish (fish),
taubada,” the lad politely answered. “Is
it—er —dead?” This in the F.M’s best
Mark Twain manner. “My oath,
taubada! ” was the prompt response. “He
dead. Four week he stop ’long hice-
bokkis.”
V ¥ -S'
“Awani”; A good emu-hunting dog
waits until he’s running level with his
quarry, then springs and catches |thc
bird by the throat; the emu turns a com-
plete somersault and comes to earth,
dead, with a broken neck. No danger
of emu’s kicks by this method.
* * * *
“H.H.”: Fred, new on the station, had
heard much of Andy’s hardiness and
ability to go long stretches on very little
tucker. The two were leaving the home-
stead to track horses. “Bring the pack-
horse and swags along and meet me at
the bore,” called Andy as he galloped on
ahead. Midday saw a halt to boil the
quart-pot. “Where’s the tea, Fred?”
“Didn’t bring any ; you didn’t tell me to.”
“Well, you brought some tucker, didn’t
y’?” “No. You didn’t say anything about
it.” Andy scratched his head. “Well,
it’s too far to go back for it; we’ll go on
now we’ve picked up these tracks.” “Suits
me,” said Fred. Next day at midday:
“I’m beginning to feel I could do a feed ;
how are you, Fred?” “Jake,” said Fred ;
so on they went. At the end of the third
day Andy could stand no more and Fred
was still “jake.” “I’m done in; we’ll
camp here till daylight and make a break
for home,” said Andy. For some years
Fred was the hardiest chap he had ever
met —until he found out that before start-
ing Fred had filled his pockets and saddle
pouch with dried apples.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: My dog followed a big
wombat into his burrow and a few
minutes later we heard an agonised yelp
from the dog and then silence. After
digging for half an hour we came to the
crushed body of the dog. He looked as
though a steamroller had gone over him.
The wombat is as cunning as he is
powerful when dealing with dogs. He
will give it every opportunity of climb-
ing on his back, and once there the
wombat rises on his powerful legs and
crushes the dog against the roof of the
burrow.
* * * *
“Matje”: Near Tintinalogie home-
stead, barling River (N.S.W.), I saw-
lightning strike two gum-trees; when
they fell there were holes about 12ft.
deep. Days later runners from the tap-
roots were burning yards from the parent
root. So much for the bush legend about
lightning-struck timber refusing to burn.
* * * *
“Timothy Tywire”: Clouds, however
numerous or bulky, don’t necessarily por-
tend rain in n.-w. Q., but when you see
two layers of them travelling at right
angles to each other you can bet on get-
ting juice in the rain gauge before long.
I’ve never known it to miss.
* * * *
“Plankton”: I accord J. H. M. Abbott
due respect for his historical knowledge
of N.S.W., but when in his story “The
Mad Croppy” fB. 22/4/’36) he credits
the New South Wales Corps with march-
ing 15 miles in three hours, followed by
covering a further 30 miles in 15 hours
chasing rebels (and in hot weather at
that), he seems to overstep the mark. The
writer has walked up to 40 miles in 12
hours (including two hours for rests) and
travelling light at that; but with Matilda
up considers half that distance is a good
daily mileage. Even though dressed in
modern light fighting equipment it is
doubtful if a body of infantry could
maintain three and half m.p.h. The in-
fantry equipment of to-day is far lighter
than the old leather kit and Martini-
Henry of 40 years ago ; and almost cer-
tainly the latter weighed less than that
of 1804, when the cumbrous old musket
was still in vogue.
MY ANCIENT ROSA BUGGY.
Yes, my good old Rosa buggy is the last one
on the track:
Its wheels have scrawled their signature since
gran’pa came outback ;
It knows the road in wet or dry, an’ lots ot
other things,
An’ echoes all my private thoughts with
chirrups of its springs.
It knew the way before the axe or mattock
made it plain,
Before the brumby bush was tamed or knew the
tug of rein.
Its paint was fresh; its hood was sleek; each
bolt an’ strap was trim.
No rattle then came from its spokes; ’twas
sound in wind and limb.
An’ now its hood is wrinkled an’ its saucered
wheels are frail;
Its coat shows where the fires an’ floods an’
droughts have told their tale.
But still it’s tough as greenhide; just as willin’
an’ as fast,
An’ with care an’ kindly treatment it will
serve me to the last.
Oh, the courtin’s an’ the weddin’s an’ the
christ’nin’s an’ the shows,
An’ the races an’ the fun’rals that this old
buggy knows!
I can hear it tellin’ stories with a giggle or a
groan,
In a squeaky voice repeatin’ yarns that sound
just like my own.
When you pass me in your motor, with a sort
of pityin’ glance,
I don’t envy you your engine —my old buggy
has romance.
But I’m glad the roads are smoother, for the
body, rims an’ spokes
Need more nursin’ than they used to, just
like other aged folks.
S.A.
STRIPPER.


MTS
LYS
k
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
H
mm
m
, ■ .
'iMMm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPEC
FY "L Y S AGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Lamb-marking Methods.
“R.M.”: I have tried both methods to
stop bleeding of marked lambs (B.
8/7/’36). The best way I have found
is to use a 15in. pair of emasculators —
the type similar to the wire- or bolt-cut-
ters. If the tail is crushed quickly with
these, it seems to bruise the ends of
arteries and stop the flow of blood. Be-
sides being quicker than the searing, it
is more humane. Don't remove the
emasculators until the tail has been cut
off on the inside.
“Thorley”: I fail to see why any dress-
ing is necessary at lamb-marking if it is
carried out properly. Some advocate
searing the tail because it “stops bleed-
ing.” It does —and may produce a badly-
festering sore, a fertile feeding ground for
blowflies. Many years ago it was in
vogue in our district. All manner of
iron implements from
a common spade up-
wards were in use, but
after two or three
seasons they went com-
pletely out of fashion.
If conditions were right
for blowflies a dab or
squirt from an oilcan
of one kerosene in five
of raw linseed oil
might be used. But
weather conditions at
marking time should
not be bad. For mark-
ing, we put ewes and
lambs in a yard. The
lambs are drafted into
a small yard with a
crush pen. There they
are easily caught, and
when done are placed
in- an adjoining fresh-
grass paddock. Con-
ditions are clean, so we
never have losses.
Rugging Sheep.
“J.W.”: Rugging is becoming' a live
question, and there is no doubt that in
some districts it pays. In a recent re-
port, Goldsbrough Mo its record a test
in S. Australian country which normally
produces inferior, earthy wool. The
rugged animals, run in the same paddocks
with the unrugged, came off best to the
tune of ss. 4d. per head.
They cut a pound of wool more than
the unrugged, their fleece was better in
style, and tender and earthy backs were
not found among the covered sheep.
On large properties rugging is not
practicable, but there is not a small
property in N.S.W., Vic. and S.A. on
which it could not be regularly carried
out. Apart from other considerations,
rugging should save a lot of lives.
Quality Before Quantity.
“Doitnow”: The more one follows the
market reports, the more the fact is
hammered home that only quality returns
a payable dividend.
Recent N.S.W. lamb sales showed
extra choice lambs 28s. to 305., whilst
plain sorts fetched around the 18s. mark.
Exactly the same in proportion with other
grades of stock. Those catering for
quality get the returns with less capital
outlay and carrying less stock that the
quantity breeder can never hope to
receive.
I doubt if 10 p.c.. of lamb sold at
Homebush is extra choice, and, judging
from many and various yardings 1 have
seen in the past, it is mostly good to
plain only. It is these facts that prevent
us keeping a fixed standard in our ex-
port trade.
In such matters we might copy M.L.
with advantage. There they practise
a careful form of breeding that pro-
duces uniformity of carcass only. In
my district of N.S.W. I couldn't walk
on to two neighboring properties with the
same types of lamb. One breeder fancies
one, and his neighbor something poles
“ That's a caterpillar, blast y', not a possum
apart. The point to decide is the suita-
bility of one’s property in relation to
class of stock.
If you can’t breed and get off prime
export suckers, go for a good class of
crossbred such as the English Leicester-
merino—in my opinion the best for dual-
purpose breeding. The cross produces
plenty of good wool, and also makes an
ideal carcass either as big lamb or
mutton, particularly hogget mutton.
We have had years of experience with
this cross, have never been caught by
bad seasons, thanks to their wool value,
and have always had good prices with
adequate profits.
The same applies to wheat. Put in
100 acres with plenty of manure on
fallow country, rather than 200 acres
anyhow.
He Doesn’t Follow Prell.
“Ron J.”: The scientific grass produc-
tion by which C. E. Prell (B. 22/7/’36)
increased the sheep-carrying capacity of
Gundowringa (N.S.W.) 300 p.c. does not
seem to have impressed others in those
parts.
The owner of 2000 acres told me his
total stock —sheep, horses and cows —did
not exceed a hundred head.
All the land he would require for
them, under Prell’s cultural scheme, was
a decent-sized building allotment. More
stock, more work, was his obsession. He
had enough for himself and the missus,
he reckoned, so why worry?
Cultivation he regarded as a sacrilege.
“Never been a plough in it,” he said.
Some of it is first-class potato country,
too. Meanwhile eager sons of the soil,
despairing of ever getting a decent block,
answer the call for the dole and relief
work.
M.L. v. Australian Lamb-raiding.
“Ghanam”: Maoriland has one great
advantage over Australia in the lamb-
raising business. About 89 p.c. of M.L.
sheep are British breeds and crosses,
whereas in N.S.W. about the same per-
centage are pure merino. Maoriland,
therefore, has 25,000,000 fat-lamb sheep
to draw on, while N.S.W.
has only about 10,000,006
at most. The N. S. Wales
quota of first-grades
among export lambs is
only 25 p.c., while the
M.L. percentage is over
80.
Ronald MacKee, a N,
S. Wales departmental in-
structor who toured Maoriland recently,
says that there is no room for
an inferiority complex in N.S.W., where
many districts compare for fat-lamb
advantages with the Savage Isles.
The southern Australian climate gives
a better chance of organising regularity
of supply, which is out of the question
in M.L. because of the severity of the
winters. In S. Island particularly, it is
necessary to lamb mainly in September,
and around Canterbury, where the best
carcasses come from, 35 p.c. are sold as
suckers. The majority are crop-fattened
—swedes and rape are popular—and
slaughtered at from five to eight months
old. N. S. Wales suckers are turned off
at from to five months old.
However, even with meatworks closed
down for from six to eight months
in Maoriland, lamb-freezing is a paying
game, and with continuity of supplies it
should be much more payable in N. S.
Wales and Victoria.
M.L. has a system with fat lambs which
Australian dairy-farmers follow with
butter production. Freezing works are
decentralised so as to be as close as pos-
sible to sources of supply. Young lambs
do not lose weight and bloom during
long droves and train journeys as they
do in the Commonwealth. And there is
a lot to be said for the small-farm sys-
tem which the high price of land in M.L.
has tended to develop there—the price
is £2O to £4O per acre against £8 or so
in N.S.W. M.L. farms range from 50
acres upwards on the Canterbury Plain,
where the soil is heavy, rich and alluvial.
Australian farmers would die at the mere
thought of a 50-acre sheep farm.
Dealing with Strangles.
“X.T.”; Strangles mostly affects horses
from two to five years old. The disease,
highly infectious, comes with breaking-
in and teething and too-close stabling.
Loss of appetite, hanging heads, partly-
closed eyes and stiffness of action are
among the first symp-
toms. The nostril in-
teriors and possibly the
mouth will be inflamed,
and presently begin to-
give off a thickish
yellow pus though
occasionally it is white
or brown, streaked
with blood. Neck
glands enlarge and be-
come painful, and
presently develop into
a round swelling which
is very tender and
which gradually re-
solves itself into an abscess which
bursts if left to itself. In severe cases
swallowing is affected, and sufferers
may even suffocate. Or the abscess may
spread to the windpipe, or the continual
taking into the lungs of refuse from the
abscesses leads to pneumonia. Again,
abscesses occasionally form on the outer
skin of the face round the nose, eyes
and mouth.
Prevention is not easy, since strangles
is highly infectious and may
be caught by contact with
strange horses or by animals
being allowed to drink at
public water-troughs.
Plenty of open air,
warmth, clean water and
easily-digested food are the
main essentials in treating
simple cases. Carrots, bran
mash, linseed tea are all
useful in the hospital diet.
Wash out the nostrils gently
with warm water and a
little boracic. Creolin or
carbolic inhalations help-
give them from a nosebag
with a hot brick in the
bottom three times a day.
Drop the chemicals on the
brick.
A linseed or antiphlogistine poultice
will help bring the abscess to a head
quickly, and as soon as a soft spot forms
open it gently with a knife. Even if the
abscess bursts it is best to widen the
opening with the knife and wash out the
wound with a tablespoon of lysol in a
pint of water.
After the abscess has drained nursing
and rest should put the nag on its feet
again.
Sidebone in Horses.
“Horsey”: Sidebone is caused by in-
jury to the lateral cartilages, horses con-
tinually treading on another’s coronet
whilst working in a team, or by faulty
shoeing, which deprives the frog of essen-
tial natural ground support. I consider
that ready-made shoes, fitted cold and


LICK
VI
V
pc%Mg
p.
U
2s
ALL
WANT
i IT
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue ol
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
Economical as a Car ...
Does the Work of a Truck
More operators every day are realising the
many outstanding advantages o( Ford
V-8 Utilities. This extract from an owner’s
letter is typical of the high praise these
units are earning everywhere : “I am
perfectly satisfied with ray Ford V-8 Coupe
Utility and am very glad 1 bought it
because it has been such a real help to me
in my business. I have carried loads of
over 14 cwl. which it handles with ease ;
it is a pleasure to drive whether loaded or
empty, I consider the Ford V-8 Coupe
Utility the best job available because it is
as comfortable and economical as a car
and does the work of a truck.” V-8
performance, dependability, economy and
speed have introduced a new quality
standard in utility service. The experi-
ences of operators in all classes of work
prove the leadership of Ford V-8 units.
Important features include ; V-type 15-
cylinder engine ; Safety Glass all round ;
Super Safely mechanical brakes ; Five
16 x 6.00 lyres ; Larger loading capacity.
Why not test one of these smart
V-8 Utilities under your own operating
conditions ? The Ford dealer near yon
will gladly demonstrate. A special
Finance Plan providing easy and con-
venient terms may be arranged.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-6 UTILITIES
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
i • v
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) f 9 i.24c
with lack of proper trimming, are the
greatest cause of all in light horses.
There is no definite cure, but care can
prevent and minimise.
An affected horse’s team position
should be changed or the tackle adjusted.
Bad driving and short or vicious turning
are likely causes of sidebone develop-
ment.
The injuries set up inflammation some-
times on both sides of the lateral carti-
lages, which turn to bone, permanent
lameness often following.
Treatment methods:
Bar-shoe the affected foot with a heart-
shaped shoe, so that the normal ground
pressure is applied to the frog. This
often prevents the trouble going further.
Make shoes that will lower the heels,
and so increase frog pressure, and then
thin the horn below the sidebone, either
with a rasp or knife. Care must be taken
not to go too deep or the foot may be
permanently injured.
In all cases, the horse should be rested,
and on no account galloped on hard
ground. Concussion does not cause side-
bone, but it is disastrous when sidebone
is present.
Sidebone is a permanent and vital de-
fect in a horse with narrow feet and con-
tracted heels. This type of foot never
gets right. The broad foot with wide
heels is unlikely to suffer such serious
reactions.
Short or Long Grazing.
“Stump Jump”: Balancing of clover
and grass plots is basically a question ol
dominancy and the preservation of each
at the stage of vigor when it will be able
to prevent the other choking it out.
In mixed pasture, sub. clover will soon
oust rye-grass or phalaris on most soils,
if these are continually grazed shorter
than 6in. in winter.
In the spring white clover will do
exactly the same, with the result that
the rye is pushed out until it becomes a
mere 25 p.c. to 30 p.c. of the pasture—
not enough. Sixty per cent, grass is
needed for a good diet, the balance
being clover.
Whilst a lot can be done by cutting
down super, and applying ammonia to
boost grass up, the most satisfactory
method is by grazing control, always re-
membering that clovers thrive on short
cropping and grasses such as rye like
to be left long.
If the pasture gels too grassy, it can
be grazed close to lessen the vigor of
the grass, when the clovers will spread
quickly. The reverse process of grazing
long will let ryes keep clovers back in a
plot. The only time “super.-starving”
should be used in this scheme of variety
control is when the feed becomes 100
luscious and is “bloaty.”
“Steve” (B. 29/7/’36) refers to the fact
that rye-pastures are rarely seen at a
height of 6in. in winter. Obviously, if
there is only rye-grass in the plot, it has
not to keep any other plant down by its
own vigor, and so may be grazed very
closely without affecting anything
greatly. But let “Steve” try doing it
when good strains of sub. clover and
white clover are about, and he will find
the rye weakening each year.
1 have seen this happen so often that
I have come to the view that the control
of grazing heights in any mixed pasture
is almost the only factor affecting its
composition—that is, barring the use of
super.
Right-time Fallowing.
“I. Want”: To work at the right time
is important in fallowing —probably more
so than the number of times the land is
cultivated. In a season like the present,
especially inland, first ploughings or
scarifyings should be completed before
the middle of August.
In wetter seasons in the N. S. Wales
south-west the average number of cul-
tivations in fallowing competitions is
about 3.5, but it is often evident that the
tendency is to delay treatments so long
that weeds get a good hold as a result
of the heavy summer rains. Then, too-
deep working in process of dealing with
the weeds gives a too-thick mulch-layer
and an imperfect seedbed.
Often a quick harrowing when the
weeds were very young or early not-too-
deep ploughing after rain would avoid
most of the trouble.
Brunskill on Silage.
“I. Want”: The veteran Anthony
Brunskill was too ill to attend the N. S.
Wales R.A.S. fodder competition this
year, so he sent a paper summarising his
viewpoint, which has been developed out
of practice that has opened a new era
in drought provision.
He writes that he strongly favors pit
silage for inland areas as a fodder-con-
servation basis. He declares that p.s.
has advantages over hay because it can
be made for a quarter of the cost.
Secondly, it is the nearest approach to
green food in drought time and has a
special value in maintaining milk supply
for lambing ewes. It can be quickly and
cheaply made from a variety of fodders
which are easily grown in the inland.
Once laid down, it is safe from floods,
fire and pests, and the temptation is
never there to sell it when hay prices are
locally high.
Mr. Brunskill says that he has a very
open mind about the technique of making
pit silage. But he does not favor pits
more than 60ft. long by 15ft. wide at
the top, with a depth of sft. and a slope
of three and a half to one on every side.
Silage, according to his method, must be
packed the same shape above the soil
as below, for as high as it is possible
for the teams to drive over the pit. Then
soil must be piled on to supply weight.
Mr. Brunskill declares wheat-farm
silage to be the one great standby of
inland areas for maintaining lambing
ewes in dry seasons, and he sees in it,
quite rightly, a road to the development
of the baby beef industry.
Dry Ice and Tropical Fruits.
“Zedo”: Dry ice is only now becom-
ing familiar to Australians, though it has
been in copious use in U.S.A. for years.
It is made abroad largely as a by-
product of power alcohol. As it does
not melt, it can be sent safely by post,
and a very little of it goes a long way
and lasts a long time, since it is many
times colder than ordinary ice.
In Europe it is used to preserve soft
fruits such as raspberries and straw-
berries from season to season. Such
fruits can be turned into what ap-
pears to be stone and months after-
wards defrosted without much loss
of flavor and consistency. Where it is
needed only to keep fruits for a week,
enough ice is applied—not in contact with
the fruit—to preserve them in good con-
dition, The system has the advantage that
the consignments can be picked ripe and
sent by ordinary goods train or by mail.
Last week an expert in the business
sent strawberries to me in Sydney from
Hemmant (Q.) packed with a piece of dry
ice, which had been reduced to the size
of a two-shilling piece on arrival. The
package was sent by ordinary mail. The
interior of the box was dry and clean
and the strawberries were prime and full-
flavored and superior to those packed in
the ordinary way, though full-ripened on
the plants. The sender wrote :
I have made several shipments of straw-
berries To Melbourne, and all have arrived
so far in perfect condition, except for
some of the first lots, which were frozen.
I overcame this difficulty by insulating
the fruit from the ice. There is every
reason to believe that we shall be able to
open up a new era for the grower of
tropical fruits and flowers. Sydney and
Melbourne will soon know what tree-
ripened Queensland tropic fruits are like.
It certainly seems as if a method has
been found of giving the interior of
Australia cheaply the fruit and vege-
tables lack of which so much affects the
health of children in pastoral areas and
the central north.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ron”; To cure lice on horses, scrub
in—with a stiff brush —nicotine sulphate
(Black Leaf 40) mixed in a gallon of
soapy water. Allow the solution to dry
on the horse in the sun. Repeat the dose
in a fortnight.
“Lam”: When using a knife for lanc-
ing abscesses or other animal injuries,
wrap the blade round with cot ton-wool
to within a quarter of an inch of the
point. If the animal winces or jumps,
it is thus protected against serious injury.
“Steve”: A good method of loosening
a stubborn nut is to soak a piece of
waste wool in kerosene, wind it
around the nut and put a match to it.
This expands the nut and does not
affect the bolt.
“X.N.”: Dribbling in cows is some-
times caused by a thorn in the mouth or
something caught between the teeth ;
also by mouldy hay. Examine a cow’s
mouth when she slobbers —the cure is
usually merely a matter of taking out the
cause.
“Steve”; Put the ring in the bull’s
nose while he is still a yearling. Tie
him to a post in the open, and drive him
around it until he cannot move. Hold
the centre of the nose out with one
hand and with an ordinary butcher’s
steel puncture the cartilage at the thin-
nest spot. Put the ring through im-
mediately.
“Silky Bag”; Cows, when being let out
of feeders whose bail-tongues are linked
to one horizontal stick, pull back at the
first sign of release. By sawing the stick
into sections for four or five bails, and
joining these with a U-bolt, they can
be let out quietly, one batch at a
time. The U-bolt has bent arms lOin.
long,' the bolt going through a hole on
one free end of a stick, and its looped
end dropping into a notch on the adjoin-
ing one. Once the cows are out, the
stick can be recoupled to tighten all the
bail-tongues simultaneously.
Entries close in London on October
12 for the Empire Wine Competi-
tion, to be held from October 31 to
November 6, 1936. Australian wines
won several prizes last year. Entry
forms and class schedules may be had
from the Wine Overseas Marketing
Board, Pirie-street, Adelaide, or from the
Department of Commerce, Canberra.


or
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . .You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to %
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
NEW TECHNICAL BOOKS
Electric Wiring: (Ibbetson) 9/6 posted
Electroplating: (Field) 10/6 posted
Electric Welding: (Stockton) 11/9 posted
Stage Fighting (Ridge) 11/9 posted
Citrus Diseases and Control 40/- posted
Feather Manufacture (Proctor) .. 32/6 posted
Slide Rides and Drawing Instruments Stocked.
TAIT BOOK CO., 349 Collins St., Melb.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
uust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Middle-aged woman, good cook and house-
keeper, knowledge flower-growing for sale, own
furniture, fowls, small capital, wishes to com-
municate farmer, not too isolated. —Refs, ex-
changed.—24s6.
To buy Morrison’s A Yankee Boy’s Success
and Cole’s White Australia Question. —2443.
To buy Prelude, by Beverley Nichols, and
The Getting of Wisdom, by H. H. Richardson.
—2497.
To buy “Esquire” for October, 1933, and
January, 1934.—2512.
Information Sought.
Would it be possible for the Queen Mary
to berth at any of the passenger wharves in
Sydney ? —2422.
It would be possible for the Queen Mary to
enter Sydney Heads, but the depth of water
at present in the channels would not permit
her to navigate either the eastern or western
channel. The height of the bridge and depth
of water at the wharf would not be sufficient
to enable her to berth at Dalgety’s wharf,
Miller’s Point, which is the only wharf which
would be otherwise suitable.
« * * *
What is the ‘‘phallic sign” mentioned in
Idriess’s “Men of the Jungle” ? —1025.
It is the emblem of fertility, and may pos-
sibly take the form of markings on the body,
although it is usually represented in monuments
or objects of wood or stone decorated with
appropriate symbols. Members of certain
aboriginal tribes attribute their virility to the
possession and veneration of such phallic em-
blems.
* * * *
Navigability of following N.S.W. rivers for
a small flat-bottomed boat: Murray, Murrum-
bidgee, Lachlan, Barwon, Culgoa and War-
re go ? —2305.
In seasons of good rainfall on their respec-
tive catchments the Murray, Murrumbidgee
and Barwon are navigable from Albury, Gun-
dagai and Walgett respectively. Little pertinent
information is available about the Culgoa and
Warrego. With regard to the Lachlan, there
is no well-defined channel between Oxley and
the Murrumbidgee River junction, hence a
journey to the sea via that stream would not
be advisable, even with a flooded river.
* * * *
Ages and other particulars regarding the girl
victims in the Sodeman case ? —2500.
Sodeman, when on trial last February for
the murder of June Rushmer, aged six, at
Leongatha, Vic., on December 2, 1935, con-
fessed also to having committed three other
similar murders, the victims being Mena
Griffiths, aged 12, at Ormond, November 9,
1930; Hazel Wilson, 16, at Ormond, January
10, 1931; and Ethel Belshaw, 12, at Inverloch,
on New Year’s Day, 1935.
If a perfect rifle is pointed perfectly upright
and discharges a perfect bullet in still air, will
that bullet fall back into the rifle or will the
spinning of the earth affect the place where the
bullet will fall ? —2503.
It is an assumption in ballistics that the
motion of the earth need not be taken into
account when considering the behavior of pro-
jectiles, and in the case you cite, though a
very extreme one, the theory is that the bullet
would drop back into the muzzle, because any
lateral movement of the earth would be com-
municated to the bullet during discharge.
♦ ♦ * ♦
How is the pasteurisation of milk done com-
mercially ? —2540.
There are two methods, the “flash” and
“holder” processes. In the first method the
milk is heated to a temperature of 160 deg. to
165 deg. F. for about one minute, cooled to
about 40deg. F., bottled and placed in a
refrigerator. In the “holder” process the milk
is heated and kept at a temperature of about
140 deg. F. for 30min., cooled as before and
bottled. The latter method is preferable, as
the milk does not acquire a “cooked” taste and
the enzymes are not so readily destroyed.
* * * *
What act of bravery was performed by a man
named Cur now in connection with the Kelly
gang of bushrangers ? —2455.
The Kellys, after forcing some line-repairers
to pull up the rails at a dangerous curve on
the line near Glenrowan, with the intention of
wrecking the special train carrying a number
of police from Melbourne, made prisoners
of the local inhabitants in the Glenrowan Hotel.
Thomas Curnow, a schoolmaster, managed to
make his escape and, running along the line
in the darkness before dawn, contrived by
means of a danger signal improvised from
matches and a red pocket-handkerchief to warn
the train crew. The incident took place on
the morning of June 29, 1880.
*"* * *
Particulars concerning Sir George Gipps ? —•
2375.
He was the second-last Governor whose
administration included the territory of Vic-
toria with that of N.S.W., his term of office
being from February 24, 1838, to July 11,
1846; his name was given to the newly-opened
district of Gippsland. He was born at Ring-
wold, Kent, 1791, educated at King’s School,
Canterbury, and the Royal Military Academy,
Woolwich, joining the Royal Engineers 1809,
and becoming a lieut.-col. 1841. He served in
the Peninsular War, was wounded at the storm-
ing of Badajos, 1812, and was mentioned in
dispatches. He spent five years in the West
Indies, and was secretary to Lord Auckland,
First Lord of the Admiralty, 1834. Assuming
office in Australia when the colony was enter-
ing the first stages of self-government, he spent
difficult years upholding the authority of the
Colonial Office against local patriots such as
Wentworth and Lowe, and he left the colony
worn out by his efforts and disappointments.
He died at Canterbury February 28, 1847, and
is buried in the Cathedral there.
(1) Where can 1 get the passenger list of
the sailing ship Georgina which arrived at Port
Phillip from England in 1837 ? (2) From what
port in England did she sail, and on what
date ? —2321.
(1) and (2) The first vessel to arrive direct
from a British port did not enter Hobson’s
Bay until June, 1839. A barque Georgina
arrived with 148 immigrants on February 25,
1841, from Liverpool, whence it had sailed on
October 4, 1840. The passenger list is pre-
served in the Public Library of Victoria, and
application to view it could be made in writing.
* * * *
If 1 employ anyone in Victoria must I insure
him, and, if so, how do I go about it ? —2403.
Under the Workers’ Compensation Act, Vic-
toria, it is compulsory for an employer to insure
his liability. The necessary policy can be
obtained from either the Government Insurance
Office or any of the 70 approved insurers under
the Act.
Jjs
Is it possible to learn mine-surveying from
books ? If so, names of books, prices and
where obtainable ? —2208.
Mining surveying is a practical subject and
cannot be learnt entirely from books. If, how-
ever, a student has an opportunity of becoming
proficient in the handling of various instru-
ments used he can acquire a good knowledge
of their application to mining work from Trum-
bell’s Mining Surveying, obtainable at Angus
and Robertson’s, and from the various papers
published in the N.S.W. “Surveyor” and the
“Australian Surveyor,” obtainable from the
N.S.W. Institution of Surveyors, Science House,
Sydney. Oral classes are held in surveying at
the Sydney Technical College. Instruction is
not given by correspondence.
What are the educational standards applic-
able to conductors in the N.S.W. tramway and
Dept, of Transport omnibus services ? Is an
intermediate or leaving certificate necessary ?
—2421.
An intermediate or leaving certificate is not
essential. The entrance examination for tram-
way and motor omnibus conductors consists of
tests in simple arithmetic (English standard
money), dictation and general mental ability,
as well as a physical examination by the depart-
mental medical officer.
* * * *
What are sago, tapioca, vermicelli, spaghetti
and macaroni made from and have they any
special nutritive value ? Also, what is malt ?
—2243.
Sago is made from the thick starchy trunks
of the sago palm, which grows in the East Indian
Archipelago; it is washed with water and dried
by heat into pellets. Tapioca is made from the
starchy roots of the cassava or manioc plant, a
native of South America, but now grown for
its food value in many hot countries. It is
purified in water and dried on hot plates into
pellets. Arrowroot comes from the same source.
Vermicelli, spaghetti and macaroni are Italian
foods made from the flour of very hard wheats
mixed with water into a dough and then dried
into their familiar forms. Vermicelli is formed
into thin solid threads, spaghetti is the same
but larger, macaroni is made into hollow tubes.
All these foods are very high in nutritive values,
chiefly starch easily converted into sugar by
digestion; sago and tapioca are particularly
valuable for children and invalids, as they are
so easily digested. Malt is barley which has
been damped, piled into heaps in a warm room
and allowed to sprout for a brief period; it
is then dried off and roasted into a brown state.
H*
How to grow lily-of-the-valley in Sydney ? Is
there a local market for the blooms ? —2408.
Glass frames in which a regular temperature
of 75 to 80 degrees is maintained are essential.
Set the rhizomes 4in. apart in boxes of light
loam containing plenty of manure and at least
10 p.c. of sharp sand. Water regularly and
give occasional dressings of liquid cow or stable
manure. The planting is done during June, but
often the first year’s flowering is sparse. It
should not be difficult to sell lily-of-the-valley
blooms to florists if of high-class quality.
* * * -t
The foliage of my geraniums has a scalded,
burnt-like appearance, and is falling off. Cause
and remedy ? —2394.
Rust has made its appearance. Too much
watering brings this disease. Cut off affected
foliage and spray the stems with Bordeaux
mixture (trade strength). If the disease is ex-
tensive remove the plants and burn them.
Treat the soil with weak permanganate of
potash solution before restocking with more
geranium or pelargonium plants.
* ❖ * *
Is fresh soot harmful to plants ? —2382.
Yes. It should be spread on a special bed
and turned every few days to permit air and
sun to break it down, then mixed into the
garden with plants. A better way to use soot
is to place it in a bag and suspend it in a
barrel of water. At the end of a week it will
be ready to use, and is then an excellent
stimulant.
£ * ❖
Hints on the, cultivation of staghorn and
elkhorn ferns? —2271.
Staghorns (Platycerium grande) and elkhorns
(P. alcicorne) will grow readily when fastened
to boards or logs. Pack spagnum moss or
rotted cow manure in hessian behind the ferns
to hold moisture. Hang them in a protected,
sunny position and water regularly. In dry
weather soak the ferns for a couple of hours
in a tub or cask of water or place a jam-tin
(in which a small pinhole has been made)
above them and let the moisture drip. The
ferns do not make much growth until the
second year.
* * * *
In Nov., 1933, the P.O. at Brindabella was
destroyed by fire and all outgoing mail was
pen-cancelled. (1) Are these stamps of any
value ? (2) For how long was this cancellation
employed ? (3) Name of postmistress ? —2469.
(1) The “Australian Stamp Monthly” of
January 1, 1934, referring to this cancellation,
states that it will be one of the rarest in Aus-
tralia, but there appears to be no reference to
it in current catalogues. Generally speaking, no
stamp or cancellation can be of any value for
so long as it can be duplicated. (2) About two
weeks. (3) Mrs. J. S. Killen.
jJ; :Jj : i :
(1) What does the design on the Common-
wealth cable stamp represent ? (2) Were there
other values issued besides the 2d. ? (3) On
what date was the South Australian centenary
stamp issued ? —2423.
(1) It depicts the figure of Amphitrite (wife
of Neptune) holding the ribbon of communica-
tion between the cable landings at Apollo Bay
(Victoria) and Stanley (Tasmania). (2) Yes,
threepence, blue. (3) During the first week of
August.
* * * *
Method of staining previously varnished floor
surrounding carpet ? —2368.
The . varnish must be scraped off with a
scraper, burnt off and scraped, using a blow-
lamp and scraper, or scrubbed off with caustic
soda or petrol. After thorough cleaning, apply
a suitable floor stain; when it is dry, give a
coating of floor varnish or brush over a lacquer
made of two parts golden shellac dissolved in
one part by measurement of methylated spirit.
A combined stain and varnish is quick to apply
but does not wear so well.
.1! * * *
Details concerning Maintenance Art Scholar-
ships tenable at the Sydney Technical College ?
—2498.
Three competitive scholarships tenable at the
college are to be awarded annually and will
admit holders to the diploma courses in art
and exempt them from college fees for three
years. In addition, each scholarship carries
during its currency an allowance of £26 p.a,
for holders who live at home while attending
the college or £52 p.a. for holders who have to
live away from home to attend classes.
Scholarships are awarded on the results of an
examination held at the East Sydney Technical
College, Darlinghurst. The next examination
will be held on November 30 and four suc-
ceeding days. Subjects will be still-life or
landscape, composition and drawing from life.
The examination is not restricted to pupils
attending school. Candidates for 1937 scholar-
ships must not be more than 20 on February
22, 1937. No application will be enter-
tained unless the financial circumstances of
the candidate or his family warrant an award.
More detailed information and forms of appli-
cation are obtainable from the secretary,
Maintenance Art Scholarships Committee, East
Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst.
I have a shunt-wound 240 -volt D.C. motor,
r.p.m. 1000, full-load current 80 amps, arma-
ture resistance 0.2 ohm. 1 propose using this
machine as a 240 D.C. generator. How is the
r.p.m. calculated ? —2524.
Multiply the motor r.p.m. by the generator
terminal volts and divide by the back e.m.f.
of the motor. To do this, first ascertain the
volts drop, equal to full-load current (80) multi-
plied by the armature resistance (0.2), or 16
volts. Generator terminal volts equal supply
volts (240), plus volts drop (16), or 256 volts.
Back e.m.f. of motor equals supply volts (240),
minus volts drop (16), or 224 volts. R.p.m.
of generator therefore equals 1000 multiplied
by 256 divided by 224, or 1143 r.p.m.
❖ * * ❖
Recipe for making brown and black boot
polishes, in solid or liquid form, which will
also be a preservative for leather. Also recipe
for a good saddle soap ? —2383.
The basis of all good boot polishes is a
mixture of beeswax and turpentine to the
required consistency. Shred the wax into a
tin, cover with turpentine and stand aside to
dissolve to a paste; a few drops of raw linseed
oil may be added if liked. The quantity of
turpentine determines the stiffness of the dress-
ing. For black, mix in enough lampblack to
give a good tone; for brown, mix in Vandyk or
Bismarck brown; dry colors obtainable from
paint shops. You cannot compete with the
manufactured article for cost and quality; good
polishes are so cheap that it does not pay to
make them. Soft soap in tins is the best treat-
ment for saddlery; it cannot be made at home,
as it requires special ingredients and apparatus.
A fair imitation can be made thus: Good bar
soap 165 parts, ammonia water 45 parts,
benzine 190 parts, water about 1000 parts. Dis-
solve the shredded soap in two-thirds of the
water oyer gentle heat, remove, and stir in the
ammonia. Add the benzine, stir well until it
cools into a properly mixed mass, and pour into
tins. The remaining third of water is allowed
for dissolving rock ammonia or diluting the
mixture; you will get better amateur results by
using ordinary household ammonia. This soap,
like the boot polishes, does not pay to make.
Recipe for a grease solvent and dirt remover
to meet the requirements of a miner ? —2252.
Presume you refer to clothing. Very hot
water first; then plunge it into another lot of
hot water containing strong soapsuds and a
good deal of cloudy ammonia; rinse in hot
water containing more ammonia. If ammonia
is too expensive for continuous use, other simi-
larly acting alkalis may be used. Borax is mild
and effective dissolved in the water; washing
soda is stronger and very good, but must be
used in small quantity or it will combine with
the grease in the clothing to form a stiff, slimy
soap, almost impossible to remove.
Brief Answers.
T.L.R.: The present actual attendance at
St. Joseph’s College, Hunter’s Hill, is 370; its
greatest actual attendance was 399. It does
not take day boys A.J.R.; Johannesburg
was iounded in 1888, on the discovery of gold,
and the population (white) is now in the
vicinity of 180,000. Situated on the Rand, in
the Transvaal, which is the richest gold-bearing
region in the world, its continued prosperity is
still almost entirely due to its goldmines. It
is 957 miles from Cape Town W.L.: Write
Angus and Robertson, Sydney T.N.L.: (1)
No. (2) £8 Bs.A, including Government fees,
plus cost of block for advertisement. (3) No,
registration _ covers whole Commonwealth.
Write to Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack streets, Sydney
A.G.P.: (1) Cannot say. (2) Yes K.S.:
Records not available J.G.: 6000 copies of
the Commonwealth Year-Book are printed
annually... .R.H.H.: The library and inquiry
office of the Australian Society of Genealo-
gists are at 91a Phillip-street, Sydney, and the
objects are to serve the interests of genealogy
and family history generally. Records in re-
lation to early Australian family history are
being built up, and papers dealing with this
and other matters of genealogical interest are
published in a periodical. Membership fee, 12s.
6d., covers subscription to the magazine, as well
as use of the library and records... .A.F.:
Queen Mary was born at Kensington Palace,
London, May 26, 1867, and was the eldest child
and only daughter of the Duke of Teck and
Princess Mary, daughter of the Duke of Cam-
bridge and granddaughter of George 111
J.W.G.: (1) Moreland Metal Co., 3 Market-
street, Sydney; Austral Bronze Co., O’Rior-
dan-street, Alexandria, N.S.W. (2) Copper
£3O to £3B, brass from £l4, lead £lO to £l6
per ton... .F.D.: : Bunyancoor is a W.A. abo.
place-name meaning “a lot of swamps”
C.K.: The journey round Australia by pas-
senger steamer, commencing at Brisbane and
proceeding via Fremantle and Darwin, occupies
about five or six weeks. In the reverse direc-
tion the round voyage occupies about eight
weeks, as there is a longer period between
connecting steamers at Darwin and Fremantle.
First saloon fares for the journey range from
£5l ss. to £57 15s. Passengers must maintain
themselves ashore whilst awaiting steamers
at ports of transhipment H.T.; German
beer-mugs of typical salt-glazed brown pottery
are by no means rare, particularly of the type
made during the nineteenth century. Most
antique shops have them from time to time,
and it is a matter of luck to procure one just
when wanted... .R.S.E.: The brown teapot is
of a type made by many manufacturers, and
without seeing it it is impossible to make an
exact identification. It is probably, however,
of Staffordshire pottery, made somewhere in
the nineteenth century, possibly about 1850
H.E.H.: The books mentioned are of no
special value and would be hard to dispose of.
A.G.W.: From A.R.C. Engineering Co.,
14 Spring-street, Sydney... .T.L.C.: Write
Department of Labor and Industry, Sydney.
A.S.R.: Sydney booksellers cannot trace
the book R.C.; Ask the Warren branch of
the bank if the money is still there in your
name. If you cannot get a satisfactory reply
inquire at Cobbora. Your guardian should
be able to assist you. The bank may require
evidence of identification J.H.C.: As
patentee the company is entitled to impose
such terms as it may think fit for the use of
the patented article. Cannot see how it violates
“Commonwealth trading laws” H.J.C.: B
and C, having cashed the cheques, have no
further concern in the matter and no ground
on which to go into the transaction with em-
ployer A.T.: Marie Tempest is a Londoner.
. ...J.J.S.: The Martini-Henry rifle is the old
577/450, now obsolete. Cartridges are not
obtainable in Australia A.W.: Violin labelled
Joseph Guarnerius is in all probability a copy,
and has no particular value. The label is incor-
rect, the date 1723 being several years earlier
than the maker’s earliest known work P.C.;
The council, presuming that to be the author-
ity by which the work is being carried out,
has such extensive powers with regard to the
laying of pipes and making of drains for water
supply and sewerage through private property
that it would be very risky to challenge the
legality of its actions, however you may resent
them. Write to the council and state your
complaint F.D.; If the will has been filed
in the Probate Office and probate granted a
copy can be obtained from the Registrar of
* Probates, Supreme Court, Elizabeth-street,
Sydney. Inspection fee 25.; the cost of a copy
depends on the length of the will J.S.S.;
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Brickfield Hill,
Sydney; Vencatachellum 2s. Bd. per lb.,
Temple 2s. lb., Hamee Is. sd. lb. Postage
extra J.R.H.: Bride and bridegroom;
matron of honor next to the ’groom; best
man next to the bride; ’maids and ’grooms-
men spaced alternately on each side, accord-
ing to seniority or other claims. The best
man responds to the toast of the bridesmaids.
R.C.: Have the eyes tested for astigmatism.
With correcting glasses the trouble should be
bliminated, but avoid motion pictures and
anything that causes eyestrain. Meanwhile
bathe the eyes with tepid boracic solution
twice daily and wear a shade when working
under artificial light... .N.D.J.: Heart case
demands attention of doctor. Keep to routine
advised. Meat in moderation is permissible if
test for albumen is negative; avoid stews,
curries and recooked foods. Drink between,
but not with, meals. Moderation in all things
is essential R.H.: English form, Mrs. John
Brown; American, Mrs. Agnes 8r0wn....
T.H.: Citrus Products, 39 Liverpool-street; H.
Jones and Co., Darlington; Rosella Preserving
and Mfg. Co., Morley-avenue, Rosebery; Mar-
chants, Ltd., 127 Bourke-street, Redfern;
Orange Crush Co., 41 English-street, Camper-
down- —all Sydney... .(Many others mailed.)


SMOKE-OH!
“Women are Usually outspoken.”— “Sim.”
Yes ; but only by other women.
*l* -I* 4* 4
“An Arctic explorer relates how he once had
to cook and eat his boots.”
Well, what’s wrong with a three-course
meal of sole, tongue and ’eel?
•I- 4* 4* 4*
“More Japanese schoolboys are to be taught
to fly.”
The land of the rising sons.
4* 4- 4* 4*
“All cinema stars seem to marry in haste.”
—Film gossip.
And repeat at leisure.
4* 4* 4- 4-
“ ‘Most comedians are cleanshaven,’ says an
actor.”
It’s the jokes that have whiskers on
them.
4* 4* 4* 4-*
“The girls are distinct relatives.” — “D.T.”
Quite plain, in short.
“This breeze has made me awfully hungry."
"An it's blown away my twenty-five bob hat, an that's all the damage it's
gain' to do!"
“ ‘When I look around at the many un-
pleasant women of my acquaintance I wonder
how their husbands could ever have fallen in
love with them,’ says a woman writer.”
So do the husbands.
“A chemist says, ‘Laugh to keep off the
’flu.’ ”
The surly bird catches the germ,
a.
“It would be hard to say what is the world’s
greatest curiosity.”— “S.M.H.”
Still, the man who said a woman’s
would probably be right.
Sabbath Interlude.
From his study window the vicar
could see much of what was going on in
the sunlit room of the large house next
door.
A bathing party was in progress,
and the place was in an uproar. There
were, he knew, seven males and at least
10 females present, and all of them were
completely nude. He could also see a
number of bottles, and instinctively he
sighed.
Then, a moment or two later, the good
man smiled tolerantly. Even if it was the
Sabbath he would go across. That parcel
from the Guild would serve as an excuse.
Picking it up he hastily crossed the path,
and tapped on the window ledge.
A rosy-cheeked young woman smiled
out at him.
“When they are dressed,” he said
smilingly* “you can - give each infant one
of these rattles, nurse.”
o. w. w.
-I- -I- * 4*
“Even in China motor-cars are taking an
increasing toll of human life.” — “D.T.”
Again the Orient imitating the Acci-
dent.
•I* 4* -I*
Alas!
I am a disappointed man.
I was sitting in the cheap seats of the
best picture palace at Choomville-on-
Slush, when “Win or Bust, the First
True-to-Life Masterpiece Representing
Australian Conditions,” was flashed upon
the silversheet.
A ravishing girl with marcelled hair
was riding a buckjumping outlaw, while
a ring of cowboys with those woolly
hearthrug affairs on their pants yelled
“Atta girl!”
That’s how the marcelled kid won a
bet and saved the old homestead from
the villain with the mortgage. Then she
and the hero took the neddy, disguised
as a champion merino ram, to Melbourne
in an ambulance. The villain held them
up with sawn-off machine-guns, but was
foiled by a ’plane pancaking down on
them and dropping bombs.
In Melbourne they trained the horse
in a backyard fowl-run for the Austra-
lian Derby.
On the morning of the race the horse
broke his leg skidding on a butter slide,
but the heroine made splints out of the
slats of the verandah blinds and her
garters. She and the hero had just dug
up a nugget in the fowl-run, which they
put on the horse.
The villain had machine-guns trained
on the course, the bullets mowing down
the crowds, while Light Horsemen
charged the miscreants with fixed
bayonets.
The horse won. the heroine kissed the
Viceroy, and all the Melbourne pubs
handed out free beer. What a film!
So I sold my ham-and-beef business,
bought a saddle, cowboy outfit and a
sawn-off shotgun, and came out to Aus-
tralia.
I am a disappointed man.
Truth in Advertising.
“There Was a fly in it, sir."
“A man leaves a fortune to the woman who
jilted him in his youth.” —News item.
And yet people still say there is no
gratitude in the world.
•Xa
“ ‘Marriage is the biggest gamble in the
world. Nobody can foretell how it is going
to turn out,’ says clergyman.”
One can only mate and see.
“102 couples married in mass wedding in
China.” — Cable.
Hollywood is expected to reply with a
mass divorce.
4* * -I-
-“ ‘Most people eat more than they think,’
says a doctor.”
If they didn’t they’d starve!
•T-* »•*
“ ‘Why is it that most men wear old hats,
and women new?’ asks a writer.”
Probably because when women wear
new hats their husbands have to wear
old ones.
•£«
Speech Day.
“In Melbourne it has been suggested that the
struggle for prizes imperils the sanity of
students.”
“And now,” concluded the head as he
gazed benignly round the crowded hall,
“it gives me very great pleasure to present
the special prize for meritorious (en-
deavor. This year it goes to Ernest
Broad-Dome, who has succeeded in gain-
ing full marks in every single subject.
Will Broad-Dome please come forward?”
There was a burst of applause from
the assembled students as a tall, be-
spectacled youth arose from his seat and
made his way to the front of the hall.
“Ah. Broad-Dome,” beamed the head.
“Allow me to congratulate you on your
splendid achievement! Your school is
justly proud of you! Here is your prize
-—an excellent volume on Einstein’s
Theory of Relativity. You will enjoy it,
1 am sure!”
The youth gave a foolish giggle, and
blushed nervously at the head. Then in
a pleading, chiidjsh treble he piped,
“Pwease, couldn’t I have a Mickey
Mouse storwy-book instead?”
Gee.
v* *l* *l* 4*
“In the High Court the suspension of an
autogyro pilot’s license has been held over
for 14 days, the pilot undertaking to observe
the rules and the Minister agreeing not to pro-
ceed with the suspension.”— “S.M.H."
In fact, a judgment on the autogyro
principle.
“ ‘How can I keep the moths out of my
winter undies that I wish to store away
shortly?’ asks a correspondent.”
Try storing them in an airtight match-
box.
•I* 4* v 4*
An Oddly Even Match.
“When Quist was serving Hughes evened the
score at 30-15 with a lucky net-cord. Then
he lobbed out, and finally drove out, giving
Australia a 4-4 lead.”— “S.M.H.”
Then began a real ding-dong battle.
Serving fiercely, Hughes held his ser-
vice to wipe out Australia’s lead and
even the scores at 5-4. But our boys
were not to be denied. Combining
grandly on Crawford’s service, they
forced their opponents into a series of
errors, and again went ahead at five all.
Two double faults by Tuckey put Aus-
tralia in the lead again at 30-30, and
when Hughes missed a “sitter” at the net
Crawford, and Quist seemed to have it
in the bag with match point at 0-15. But
outs and nets by Crawford, who struck
a good patch, assisted England to pull
the game out of the fire, to even again
at 6-5.
Things looked black for Australia
when Quist served four aces to trail
at 6-6.
But their fighting blood was now sim-
mering, and they tore through the next
game, allowing Hughes only one point
on his service ; indeed, it was not until
24 deuces had been called that the Aus-
tralian pair succeeded in breaking
through, to even the games at 7-6.
And so it continued. With England in
the lead at 76 all, Crawford made tennis
history by actually using one of the other
seven racquets he had brought on to the
court at the start of the match. The
centre court was floodlit, and the game
continued. With both teams equal at
122-121, they slept on camp stretchers
on their respective baselines so as to
keep their eye in for the next day’s play.
Australia had victory in sight at 432
all, but England saved a match point
when Crawford was a bit slow in crawl-
ing out of the excavation made by his
left foot as he swung into his service. *
With both teams equal again at
713-712, Quist had to request the use
of a ladder to get out of the hole he
made when serving.
Just as England took the lead at 900
all, the drought which had been threat-
ening the country for the last two days
broke. On the resumption of play Craw-
ford had to put on a diving suit to go
down to serve. A serious accident was
narrowly averted when a terrific
smash by Tuckey broke his airline just
as he was coming up to take a half
volley.
As the Australians had to catch the
boat home, the match was abandoned,
with Australia in a winning position at
1439 all.
S. W. K.
Depreciation.
Now that I fix you with impartial gaze,
1 find you’ve rather mangy-looking
hair.
How did that figure set my heart
ablaze ?
That thing you call a face seems far
from fair.
Your eyes that used to once enrapture
me
Look dull, insipid; now / view your
lips
With no desire to kiss them ; and I see
You're getting pretty beefy round the
hips.
These matters, Isabel, I never mince :
You’re slipping, so I thought I’d let
you know.
’Tis wondrous how your charms have
faded since
That evening when you tossed me up
for Joe.
T. W. N.
Change.
The way she tossed her pretty curls,
1 felt a lucky chap
If she tossed me a smile or so —
/ lay in fortune's lap.
But now her pretty ways are gone,
And she’s established boss,
I feel I’m like a player who
Has somehow lost the toss.
H. M.
Proving a Theory.
George Mopper had a theory about
Creating Work, and he put it into prac-
tice by slashing windows, setting fire to
unattended motor-cars, smashing street
lamps and various other damaging diver-
sions.
Of necessity, George’s good deeds were
done by stealth, thus depriving him of
deserved recognition as a national bene-
factor.
Coming into the city one morning,
feeling particularly elated —he had suc-
cessfully fired a tramway waiting shed
the previous night—he saw a council em-
ployee sweeping the street. In accord-
ance with his theory, George lore his
newspaper into small pieces, and dropped
them as he walked on.
He was halted by a large hand on his
shoulder pulling him round to face the
enraged workman.
“Hey,” roared the latter. “Did you
chuck all that paper about where I jist
swept?”
“Why, of course, old chap,” explained
George placidly. “Don’t you see it
makes work for you. If no one threw
rubbish down you’d have no job. If
everyone did the same with his paper
there’d be work for at least twice as
many street-sweepers.”
“Is that so!” said the sweeper as he
pushed George with great force and accu-
racy on top of a swept-up heap of muddy
litter. “Well, I got a brother runs a suit-
cleanin' joint. Maybe this’ll put a bit
o’ work his way!”
TOBO.
Lament.
My clays ore dreary and I yearn to
range —
Same work, same meals and same
infernal wife.
Oh, if I had a tenner I could change,
How soon I’d change, the tenor of my
life!
T. W. N.


LIFE ASS URANCE SUPPLEMENT
The Policy
Life assurance has been one of the
worth-while social developments in modern
times. Next to savings accounts in banks
it is the world’s most popular investment.
Like the joint-stock company and other
financial institutions of comparatively
recent evolution, the life assurance policy
has come into its own during the last
hundred years.
In Australia most pronounced develop-
ment has been since the Great War. In
1920 there were 692,000 policies in force
in the Ordinary departments of life
offices operating in the Commonwealth ;
the sum assured was £168,257,400. In
1933 the figures had lifted to 877,173
policies, assuring £292,469,000. The aver-
age amount of cover taken per Ordinary
policy has greatly increased in late years.
In 1933 it was £333.
Industrial assurances numbered 904,000
in 1920, assuring £26,227,000. In 1933
there were 1,667,531 of these policies in
force, granting cover amounting to
£72,180,000. Here again the trend has
been to take out larger policies. Need-
less to say, especially in a country where
mutual and semi-mutual assurance is de-
manded, larger policies mean more
economical cover for all concerned.
The sum which life offices operating
in Australia have contracted to pay to
policy-holders exceeds the total of all
savings-bank accounts within the Com-
monwealth. That it is just as much a
poor man’s investment as a rich man’s
is seen by the great number of Indus-
trial policies in force. Industrial assur-
ance is usually paid for in small weekly
or monthly premiums, and, therefore, by
reason of the cost of getting in these
small and frequent premiums, there is
usually less profit for policy-holders than
in the Ordinary department.
But though policies in the O.D. of a
sound life office represent the best in
life assurance, by its popularity Indus-
trial assurance shows that it fills a want.
The collector is (or should be) a spur
against allowing such policies to lapse
where lapses are liable to be only too
frequent.
A savings-bank account should be the
first step by any young man or woman
towards establishing a lay-by for them-
selves or their possible dependents. The
next step is life assurance. The need
for life assurance usually grows as the
assured grows (and multiplies); but it
is one of those things which have to be
well established before that actual need
arises.
Early assurance is low-cost assurance.
A person is never too young to assure
after he or she passes the infant stage.
Even with regard to infants, deferred
assurances cannot be begun too early.
There are restrictions on the payment of
straight-out assurances on the lives of
young children, but there are no restric-
tions on the assurance of a healthy parent
in favor of those children. Also, by what
are called deferred assurances, the founda-
tion of an assurance policy, to be paid on
the death of the assured after he or she
comes of age, can be established by a
parent at low premium when the assured
child is young.
Assurance, as far as the assured is con-
cerned, represents a combination of fore-
sight and thrift. The will to assure and
continue to be assured is as important
as the actual putting away of money to-
wards payment of premiums. There are
few people in the world regularly em-
ployed during their working life who
haven’t had an opportunity to assure.
There are few who haven’t assured that
don’t regret the neglect.
The Office
One principle of mutual or semi-mutual
assurance is that all profits after pro-
viding for claims and probable claims, ex-
penses, dividends (if any) and reserves
shall be distributed among policy-holders
in the form of reversionary bonuses.
The healthy competition which exists
among leading offices in Australia tends
towards keeping exes, and other outgo
as low as possible, and increasing the
surplus for policy-holders by way of
bonuses.
The idea behind life assurance is that
those who live contribute towards the de-
pendents of those who die. Though the
contributor himself is assured of the
same treatment to his dependents when
he passes from this sphere, even if he
lives beyond the allotted span he should
lose no capital in his venture provided he
holds a participating policy in a solid,
bonus-paying office.
That is why all types of life assurance
can be regarded as an investment by one
who assures in a good office. The gamble
as regards the capital of the assurance
is on the part of the office. The specula-
tion as far as the policy-holder is con-
cerned is practically limited to the ques-
tion of bonuses. He can almost always
be certain of his premiums back ; and
often he receives excellent interest, as
well as death-cover for his dependents.
Once a life office has established itself,
it should begin to pay bonuses, and then
improved bonuses, subject to financial
depressions such as we have just seen.
Rarely, if ever, does an office reduce its
premium rates; if results improve and
the office is able to run its business with
lower expenses and claims than it first
bargained for, and if investment income
is better than expected, the assurer gets
the benefit not in cuts in the payments
he makes to the society, but in bonuses.
He originally contracted to make cer-
tain periodical payments in return for a
lump sum at a certain age or at death ;
in the end he gets a considerably greater
sum.
So all assurance contracts are not of
the same value. It depends on the
bonus-paying capacity, present and
future, of the office. Sometimes, also,
an office is more liberal on the point of
surrender and loan values than others.
"I'd suggest our group assurance, madam!
In choosing an office, therefore, heed
should be given to expense rates, mor-
tality experience, investment income, re-
serves set aside for policy liabilities, and
the nature of investment of the funds.
By not fully distributing surplus
profits, and adding part of them to re-
serves, a life office increases its future
bonus-paying ability. Thus we hear of
terms like “the basis of valuation.” This
often means the basis of anticipating the
future.
If an office, for example, up to the
present expecting a 4 p.c. return on its
investments, is able, by increasing its re-
serves, to count on only a 3y p.c. return
and still pay the same bonuses, its
bonuses are obviously going to be higher
if it actually nets 4 p.c, on the strength-
ened funds.
Likewise if an office budgets for high
expenses and high mortality, and both
those forms of outgo are below expecta-
tions, another source of profit accrues.
A life office is a continuing entity, and
old policy-holders benefit by new ones
coming in. To make it attractive for
new members to join up, prospects must
be made appealing by strengthening
bonus-paying possibilities. So generally
policy-holders should be pleased rather
than aggrieved when they see portion of
the actuarial surplus going into reserves
instead of out in bonuses. It is by reten-
tion of part of the profits that the future
is made more secure.
The Right Kind of Assurance
A life policy can be taken out for
many different purposes. The object may
be to provide for dependents in a great
or small degree, to make provision (by
means of endowment assurance) for a
retiring endowment, or to make sure of
having cash on a certain date for any
anticipated event where cash will be re-
quired ; and there are many other uses.
A policy may provide for payment of
probate duties, for funeral expenses, for
redemption of a mortgage or other debt,
for the purchase of a house, for educa-
tion of children, for a marriage dowry,
for a world tour or special holiday, for
regular income to a bereaved family, or
for income to the assured himself.
Then, of course, there are annuities.
An annuity represents worry-free income
to the annuitant, though in this case he
takes a bigger monetary gamble than
with a life policy. The office is sure of
the amount it is going to get, but the
annuitant doesn’t know how much he is
going to draw (nor does the office know
how much it will have to pay), as death
terminates the annuity. The annuitant
does know, however, that he will be paid
a regular income during his lifetime, and
that money won’t be much use to him
afterwards.
One of the understandings in regard
to life assurance is that a policy, once
taken out, should be maintained in force
until maturity. Maturity means the date
on which payment becomes due to the
, assured or his estate, by death or other-
wise.
To get the greatest return for one’s
money a policy therefore must be kept
going until it matures.
If a policy is surrendered in its early
years there is naturally a loss on it; the
office must make deductions in respect
of the death risk it has run to date. As
the contract grows older its surrender-
value increases, but still it does not pay
to surrender.
Once a policy has been taken out it is
difficult, if not impossible, to have its
terms altered, except that it may usually
be converted into a fully-paid-up con-
tract of reduced amount (without loss).
It is obvious, therefore, that a pros-
pective assurer should consider thor-
oughly before paying the first premium
which form of cover it is that he really
wants. If he is assuring mainly for cash
at a certain age, with death cover as a
secondary consideration, an endowment
assurance is called for.
If he is principally concerned with
providing for dependents or for probate
or funeral exes., a whole-life policy is
the one.
Endowment and whole-life policies,
being the most simple, are the most flex-
ible forms of assurance. Once frills are
added, or additional death risks are
brought into the one policy, the terms
become practically unalterable.
House-purchase Assurance
House - purchase assurance, being
featured by several offices just now, is
a remarkably useful contribution to the
scope of life assurance. The idea isn't
new, but for the first time it is being
written by a number of large institutions
on an extensive scale.
On approved properties (and where
the life is first-class) an advance up to
70 p.c. is made on the figure determined
by a competent valuer ; the home-pur-
chaser must take out a policy of endow-
ment assurance equal to the amount of
the mortgage, which it eventually dis-
charges. Premium and interest (at about
5} p.c. p.a.) are paid monthly ; the term
of the policy may be any reasonable
period, depending on the age of the house
bought and the life assured.
The mortgage in most cases is the
usual contract, and the assurance policy
an ordinary endowment, the sum
assured being paid on a certain future
date or at previous death. It partici-
pates in bonuses until maturity. On a
reasonably-priced house, over a term of
15 to 20 years, it works out as being
moderate rent; if the assured should die
meantime the mortgage is immediately
discharged out of.the proceeds of the
policy, and the property passes free of
encumbrances to his wife or other bene-
ficiaries, who also become entitled
to the accumulated bonuses, payable in
cash.
In one office, where the assured is
aged 40 at the commencement and the
period is 20 years, £lOO may be borrowed
for 17s. Bd. per month—-which includes
premium and interest. A £lOOO loan
could thus be arranged for £8 16s. Bd. a
month, or £2 4s. 2d. a week. Bonuses
at the end of the period should result in
a cash surplus of several hundred pounds.
The effect of these bonuses is to reduce
the actual interest rate to below 4 p.c.—
cheap money, especially when there is
death cover thrown in.
Assurance of this kind thus has special
attractions for young home-builders. It
is a venture which deserves wide popu-
larity and success.
A Variety of Policies
To mark the fact that its assets at the
end of 1935 exceeded the sum of
£100,000,000, the A.M.P. has issued a
booklet in which the story of its birth
and subsequent progress has been
featured. The society began in January,
1849, with an imposing list of patrons,
vice-patrons, trustees and directors —
over 40 of them in all—but without any
capital. Policies totalling £lO,OOO were
issued the first year, though the office
opened its second term with a balance
of only £95 13s. 2d. in the Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney.
The story is worth reading—as an in-
dication of the confidence in the early
directors and the appeal of life assurance
of the mutual variety to the public.
The A.M.P. has, issued over 2,400,000
policies since it began business 87 years
ago, and it is a family name throughout
Australasia. The society favors plain
and simple assurance contracts, such as
life and endowment policies and
annuities. It will issue more elaborate
types if asked for, but it considers that
simple contracts are more adaptable and
elastic so far as the changing circum-
stances of the assured and beneficiaries
are concerned. It is a matter of choice
and object.
Whole-life policies may be used for
probate purposes as well as for provid-
ing a death estate. An endowment policy
may be similarly used, but if purely as
(Continued on page 28.),


m
Mrm
mm
ACORN
rJ'
'mrrrrf/4'
>
ih
1956
0
i*
856
V:.
MIGHTY
OAK
m
m
125
59.161
m
Sit)
1869
s »r:
K* I
m
o})^.
i S*
\r.
nurM®
«*>
ZOIC
The acorn has grown to a mighty oak,
sheltering thousands of policyholders.
Conducted on the mutual principle of benefits to
policyholders only (there are no shareholders) the
National Mutual, through 66 years of capable
service and sound investment, has grown to be the
largest mutual office in Australasia transacting only
“ordinary ” life business.
INCOME FOR YEAR 1935, £5,233,822
OFFICES:
VICTORIA; 395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W.; 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon,
• South Africa and Straits Settlements.
Premium quotations for any class of Life Assurance furnished on
application. A Special Representative will call if requested.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION /AUSTRALASIA LTD.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
Million A.M.P. Policies
Among Two Million Families
£241,54i»761 Assured
8,310,000 people of Australia and
New Zealand now carry 1,150,382 life
policies with the A.M.P. Society, which is
roughly an average of one to every eight
people, or one to every two families. This
is proof of the thrift and good sense of
the people and of the strength of the
largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
The A.M.P. exists for the protection of
its members and their families. If YOU
are not a member, lose no time in becom-
ing one. Ask that an experienced adviser
be sent to tell you how to win the peace
of mind that comes with membership.
433 New Policies
Every Working Day
Last year the number of new policies issued reached 135,200,
or 433 new policies every working day. The sum assured
has reached £241,541,761.
Such figures indicate the public’s faith in the Society’s strength
and in its capacity to husband and develop that strength in
its members’ interests. The extraordinary growth in the
Society’s assets is further evidence. In 1922 the Society’s
assets were worth £50,000,000. To-day, 14 years later, they
are worth £101,869,000.
£5,100,000 last year
in bonus additions
Membership in the A.M.P. is open to men and women in good health.
The wise citizen will ask the nearest office of the Society to send an
experienced adviser to talk the matter over with him or her.
Write to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A..
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane. Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
THE
SOUTHERN CROSS ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Coiiins-st, Melb.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA.
LONDON AGENTS.
The Company transacts Assurance under all classes of Modern Policies
Life and Accident and Sickness.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THE “SOUTHERN CROSS” HOUSE
PURCHASE PLAN.
Payments spread over 25 years with full Life Assurance cover and redemption
of Mortgage at end of term.
Fortnightly or monthly payments amount to about the usual rental charges
only.
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS EXCEED £600,000.
ASSETS, £1,000,000 approx.
THOS. J. CONFOY, J.P.,
Governing Director.
A, AUBREY, F.A.1.5., F. 0.0.5.,
General Manager.
R. W. LAVERY, A.1.A., Actuary.
a provision against probate expenses, the
whole-life policy is the more economical.
Endowment assurance policies are a
great means of saving, as well as for pro-
viding a death cover ; they are especially
useful in establishing old-age security
for women and men, endowments for
children (for edu-
cation, marriage,
trips, setting up
in business, etc.),
and for providing
for the repay-
ment of a long-
term debt.
Whole-life and
endowment assur-
ance policies
generally have a
simple basis for
the calculation of
their surrender,
paid-up and loan
values, and (if
endorsed “with
profits”) partici-
pate fully in
bonuses. The
A.M.P. and every
other life office
issue these con-
tracts.
A.W. SNEDDON, g.m. of the A.M.P.
The National Mutual has up-to-the
minute types of policies, but by far the
largest proportion of its business, as in
the case of all the larger offices, is done
in respect of whole-life and endowment
assurances.
The association has attractive limited-
premium tables as regards both life and
endowment contracts. In these cases no
more than a fixed number of premiums
is payable (over a certain period), and
in all cases their total is less than the
sum assured. But if the assured should
die after only a few premiums have been
paid, the full sum, with bonuses, is pay-
able, and there is no liability for further
premiums.
Limited premium assurance has attrac-
tive features for various people, but it
makes particular appeal to those who can
see their earning power assured for 10,
20 or 30 years, but little longer. They
discharge their part of the contract (the
payment of pre-
miums) while they
are comparatively
flush; and the
policy is then free
of further premiums,
but participates in
bonuses, until it
matures.
The National
Mutual also has an
income assurance
policy which has
taken the fancy of
many assurers. The
chief feature about
income assurance is
that it relieves the
beneficiary of the re-
sponsibility of in-
vesting the proceeds
safely when the
policy matures, as
by death of the
assured.
The National can
quote for a variety
of children’s assur-
ances. Under one
type of policy,
where a child aged
five has a 30-year-
NORMAN DEWHURST,
of the National Mutual’s Sydney office.
old father, an assurance for £lOOO,
payable at death of the child after
it comes of age, can be obtained for an
annual premium of £lO Bs. 4d. If the
child should die before reaching 21 all
premiums are returned ; if the father
should die before the child comes of age
all liability for premiums ceases until the
child reaches 21. From age 21 the policy
starts to participate in bonuses, the child
takes on payment of the premiums, and
there are several options which he may
exercise.
The contract, for example, may be
converted into an endowment of smaller
amount or a whole-life limited-premium
policy, or it may be converted into a
paid-up contract.
•J*
Practically any
recognised type of
life assurance or
annuity can be got
from the Mutual
Life and Citizens.
The plain man or
woman with aver-
age financial prob-
lems may prefer
plain life or en-
dowment ass u r-
ance ; others may
choose to put their
income future en-
tirely in the care of
their life office,
and in such cases
income assurance
will appeal.
The M. L. C.
offers a form of
multiple endow-
ment assurance
with full participation in profits. It is
called the B.P. table. Instead of the en-
dowment being paid by the office in a
lump, it is spread over a period of years,
the first instalment being paid at a
selected age. In the event of death
before that age, the sum assured be-
comes payable immediately. If death
occurs after several instalments have
been paid to the assured, the balance be-
comes payable at once. The policy par-
ticipates in bonuses until the selected age,
and unpaid instalments also participate.
*b 4* 4*
The T. and G. (Australasian Temper-
ance and General), now 60 years old, has
been one of the big Australian mutual
offices which have striven to make Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders “assurance-
minded.” With a large business in both
its Ordinary and Industrial sections, it
has adopted new tables of demonstrated
popularity and use-
fulness. There are
over 700,000 policy-
holders on the
books, possibly rep-
resenting 50 varia-
tions of life and en-
dowment assurances
and annuities, and
their security is rep-
resented by a long
record of Australian
assurance experience
and a policy of con-
servative investment.
The T. and G. has
made greatest pro-
gress in the last 20
years. New types of
adaptable assurance
policies have helped
to popularise life
assurance in that
period; results of
this and other offices
have been encourag-
ing, until to-day a
life policy is the
most common type
of investment in
Australasia, barring,
perhaps, savings bank deposits.
The T. and G.’s family income policy,
now one of the most popular tables, has
given, a new trend in assurance
benefits, combining life assurance with
o Continued on page 30.)


e
Life Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
In October, 1935, a Member,
23 next birthday, effected a
Policy on his life for £3OOO,
and paid a quarter’s premium
of £l5/15/-. The Bonus
allotted his Policy for 1935
was £B6/5/0 !
Full particulars will be
forwarded on application.
M
wm
1
■
-V-. :
'
■
ill
m
**
m
ill
■
m
I ■ mSm
■
mm.
wm
m
I
s
i i
tin
■
IMii
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Life Assurance
The only Business
Certainty.
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE
OR BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR
HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR
CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE
MORTGAGE
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE assurance society limited
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual; All Profits Given to the Policy
Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves.
Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.
WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.


pm*
Etsuuiu
The Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Australian
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company, Ltd.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1893, the Australian
Metropolitan is one of the old-established Life Offices.
It has 40 years of faithful service to the public behind
it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are
ample for all purposes —but, even so, these bunds are
backed by substantial Reserves, so that its financial
position is impregnable.
At the end of 1935 the Assets were made up as follows:
Government and Municipal
Securities
Loans on Mortgage . .
Freehold Properties , .
Loans on Policies . .
Cash and other Assets
50.75 per cent.
18.56 „ „
16.99 .. „
6.67 „ ~
7.03 „ „
Assurance Funds at 31/12/’35, £1,366,713.
DIRECTORS:
DR. A. MURRAY WILL.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH.
D. F. STEWART.
J. A. HENDERSON,
F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER:
J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL SECRETARY:
FREEMAN J. EATON.
ACTUARY:
W. R. DAY, F.I.A,
BRANCH OFFICES :
Victoria :
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
METROPOLITAN BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
South A ustralia:
22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
PEARL ASSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
( Incorporated in England.)
INVESTMENTS IN AUSTRALASIA EXCEED
SIX MILLION POUNDS.
Funds exceed ~ .. £89,310,700
Income for 1935 .. .. £18,895,358
Total Claims paid by Com*
pany .. .. .. £100,182,094
The Company transacts every class of Fire and Accident business and is
represented throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Consult us—we offer undoubted security.
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand —-
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
W. H. C. Burnham, Manager for Australasia,
a guaranteed income to the beneficiary
if death occurs in a selected period. This
form of policy provides, if death occurs
in the selected period:
(1) An immediate cash payment with
all accumulated bonuses.
(2) An income increased by a share of
the interest earned by the society in ex-
cess of a certain percentage, payable by
equal monthly instalments for the unex-
pired portion of the selected term.
(3) The capital sum assured when the
monthly income ceases.
The payment of a small additional pre-
mium doubles the death benefit in event
of death by accident, and on satisfac-
tory proof of total disablement before
age 65 all future premiums will be
waived.
Educational policies that provide the
necessary school fees at the most useful
ages, with the proviso that all future pre-
miums cease at the death of the parent,
are another feature of the T. and G.’s
policy-writing.
It has been able, through the co-opera-
tion of employers, to give employees of
firms assurance by small instalments at
economical rates.
To help its policy-holders secure their
own homes by instalments practically
equivalent to a rental, and at the same
time protect the family by assurance
covering the balance due on the property
in event of the death of the head of the
family, the T. and G. has a home-pur-
chase scheme that is meeting with
popularity, and which is of benefit to the
society’s interest earnings.
'l*
The City Mutual issues policies notable
for the simplicity of their terms. Under
table A, representing whole of life
assurance, the conditions are expressed in
about 40 relevant lines in the policy;
they are subject to the society’s articles
of association certainly, but the gist of
the contract is plainly stated on the
document the assured receives.
It is interesting to review the salient
terms of this policy.
In the case of wilful misrepresentation
in the proposal by the assured (a condi-
tion in practically every life assurance
policy) the contract becomes void. If the
assured commits suicide after 12 months
from date of the policy, it is payable in
full.
After the policy has I, een in force two
years, it is kept alive until the surrender-
value is exhausted should premiums fall
into arrears.
After three years it may be converted
into a fully-paid-up participating policy
of reduced amount free of further
premiums.
Under any policy issued by the City
Mutual by which the death risk is
covered, if the assured loses two hands
or two legs or goes totally blind through
an accident incurred within six months
previously, the whole policy becomes im-
mediately payable. Should the assured
lose one arm, one leg or one eye as a
result of such an accident, one-quarter of
the assurance is paid immediately, the
balance at the agreed maturity date, and
the premiums are reduced by one-quarter.
The City Mutual looks on whole-life
cover (that is, where the policy becomes
payable in full at death alone) as the best
in life assurance ; and this is undoubtedly
correct where the idea is provision for
dependants. It is a fact also that whole-
life assurance is generally conducted by
offices on a more competitive basis than
most other types—it is the most straight-
forward of all contracts —and it is there-
fore the most economical for the purpose
of buying security for dependants.
•h 4* 4* *J*
The Prudential Assurance Co. com-
bines widespread operations with enter-
prise.
Among new policies introduced by this
big British office is convertible-term
assurance, under which maximum life
assurance cover for a term not exceed-
ing five years may be obtained at a low
rate of premium, the policy carrying an
option whereby, without any further
J.T. THOMPSON, of the T. and G.
evidence of health, the contract can be
converted to an endowment assurance or
a whole-life assurance at a specially-
reduced rate. This form of contract
is particularly suited to a newly-
married man or a man entering on a pro-
fessional career {e.g.. a doctor who has
just purchased a practice), who is often
unwilling, even if financially able,
to commit himself to a heavy outlay
during the first few years. After these
first few years, by which time the
assured’s personal expenses may have
decreased and his income increased, the
conversion option may be exercised, and
the future premiums for the endowment
or whole-life assurance would be reduced
by the amount of the premiums paid be-
fore the option was exercised.
Another. Prudential policy can be
issued on children’s lives whereby pro-
vision may be made for a marriage
dowry and also for an endowment sum
at a chosen age. On this class of policy
bonuses are guaranteed at a fixed rate of
£2 per £lOO assured, and, on the mar-
riage of the child, all bonuses accrued to
date of marriage are payable immedi-
ately.
The Prudential features policies
under which professional or business men
may secure a guaranteed income at re-
tirement, and at the same time make pro-
vision for life assurance cover to their
dependants in the event of their early
decease. One type represents endowment
assurance whereby annual bonuses are
guaranteed at the rate of £3 p.a. per £lOO
sum assured throughout the term of the
assurance. This type of policy is suited
to many different circumstances where it
is desired to provide a definite guaran-
teed amount at maturity.
With guaranteed bonuses the maturity
value of a policy can be accurately esti-
mated. The Prudential’s policy makes
particular appeal to those persons who
desire to provide for retirement. All
(Continued on page 32.)


GET A PRUDENTIAL GRIP ON THE FUTURE
-V.
I
; ■;
*1
... .
mm
s&*sss^i
m
L
IFE ASSURANCE POLICIES for
every contingency dependent upon
human life, namely: Provision for De-
pendents, for Retirement, tor Investment
combined with Life Assurance. Business Assurances
for Professional and Business Men, Educational
Expenses, Children's Policies, Probate Duty Poli-
cies, Surgical and Nursing Fees Benefits, etc.
GROUP ASSURANCE SCHEMES to provide Pensions and
Superannuation Benefits for Employees.
SINKING FUND POLICIES to replace Capital, Redeem
Leases, etc.
ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS POLICIES. Motor Car, Work-
ers' Compensation, Burglary, Plate Glass, etc.
FIRE INSURANCE
HOUSEHOLDERS' RISKS, under one comprehensive policy.
MARINE INSURANCE (including wool, sheep's back to
store).
LIFE FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
IMPREGNABLE SECURITY
OF PRUDENTIAL POLICIES
h quahani&ad by. the
EMPIRE'S GREATEST INSURANCE INSTITUTION
The measure of Prudential Dominance is the measure of Pruden-
tial Service to the public.
THAT IS THE FINAL ARGUMENT—the Prudential won its way to
supremacy in the insurance world because it most adequately answers
the needs of thrift-loving British people.
These figures {to December 1935) express the confidence of millions of
POLICY HOLDERS throughout the Empire—and beyond:—
Annual Income exceeds £52,000,000
—a million a week.
Claims Paid now exceed £490,000,000
—Last year alone they were more than £29,000,000
Sums assured (with bonuses) exceed £789,000,000
New business last year exceeded £85,000,000
Follow the SAFE lead and insure with the Prudential—it is not the best
because it is the biggest, but the biggest because it is the best.
"• PRUDENTIAL
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND)
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND: Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
PRINCIPAL OFFICES;
NEW SOUTH WALES; Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA 422-428 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA 69 King Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 21-23 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE FOR NEW ZEALAND:
TASMANIA—Life Branch: Ingle Hall, 89 Macquarie Street,
HOBART.
General Branch: Davey Street (opp. Franklin Square), HOBART.
QUEENSLAND 385 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Prudential Buildings, Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON.
POST
THIS
ENQUIRY
FORM
TO-DA Y
To THE PRUDENTIAL Assurance Company Ltd.
(See addresses above)
Please send me full particulars of the following types of assurance : —
NAME ...
ADDRESS


TG
m
ess
practically every man would agree
that Life Assurance was a necessity. It
is the easiest and the simplest way of providing
for your own future and the future of your
dependents.
By effecting a Participating Life Policy you
immediately create an Estate which is con-
tinually growing in value. Take the Policy
out with the T. & G. for Five Good Reasons.
(1) The T. &G.ls a Mutual Society,
and all benefits accrue to its
members and no one else.
(2) The T. &G. has been established
60 years.
(3) The T. &G. progress in the last
20 years is almost unparalleled in
the British Empire.
(4) The T. &G. has a well - earned
reputation for high Bonus results,
prompt and liberal treatment of
Claims and special additional
benefits.
(5) The T. &G. Policies are written
in plain and simple language—
there -are no involved technical
clauses or conditions.
Some Day You Bless
the Day You Joined the
T.&G.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TEMPERANCE AND GENERAL
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
(Incorporated in Victoria 1876).
such policies carry an option whereby, in
lieu of taking the maturity amount in
one lump sum, the assured may receive
an annuity at a rate guaranteed at the
inception of the policy. With fixed
bonuses the assured knows exactly how
he is to fare. He may not do so well as
if he had taken out a Prudential ordinary
participating policy; on the other hand,
he may do better. In any case, he has
no uncertainty.
All Prudential endowment assurance
policies can be issued carrying an option
of taking a guaranteed rate of annuity
in lieu of a cash sum. There are several
types of annuity options available for
selection. Either the annuity may be
payable for life or for a fixed period of
years, irrespective of whether the policy-
holder survives such period or not, or
for a fixed period, and then throughout
the remainder of life.
The same office makes a feature of
“business assurance,” especially the
assuring of “key men” in large concerns,
by means of temporary assurance policies.
Several types of annuity contracts have
been designed to meet the require-
ments of those persons who wish
to obtain a secured income payable dur-
ing the whole of their lifetime, but with-
out loss of capital in the event of
early death. Under one contract, in
the event of the death of the
annuitant, the annuity continues until the
total amount paid by way of annuity
equals the purchase money, whilst under
another form of contract, in the event
of the death within five years of the
person upon whose life the annuity is
granted, the office will pay a sum equal
to the purchase money after deducting
any annuity payments made prior to the
date of death.
Most parents are anxious that their
children should develop habits of thrift
and saving, but there is a diversity of
opinion as to how best such habits may
be instilled.
The Australian Metropolitan Life
issues a form of policy which provides
that the parent makes an annual, saving
until the child attains age 21, when the
latter becomes, responsible for all
future payments until the policy matures,
either by attainment of a selected age or
in event of earlier death.
Many grown-ups find that the
premium necessary to give sufficient life
assurance for the protection of their
families is something of a burden and
wish that their parents had known
enough to start their life assurance at a
very early age.
A man aged 21 next birthday could,
if he is a first-class life, secure an assur-
ance of £lOOO payable at age 60 or earlier
death for an annual saving of £22.
But if his parents had started saving
for him before he completed his first
year as a babe the annual saving for the
same amount of assurance would have
C. F. WARREN,
the Prudential’s Australian manager.
been only £lO a year, which is less than
half the amount required if the question
of protective assurance was deferred until
attainment of age 21.
Under such a contract provision can
be made for cessation of premiums in
the event of the death of the parent
before the child reaches age 21 —while,
should the child not live to that age, all
premiums which have been paid, plus
interest, are refunded to the parent.
•J*
The Equitable and Probate, Queens-
land, which issues whole-life, endowment
and other assurances, with participating
whole-life and endowment contracts,
grants hospital allowances ranging from
£2 2s. to £5 ss. per week, with a limit of
10 p.c. of the sum assured. The allow-
ance is paid if the assured is admitted to
any hospital as a result of an accident or
sickness, and is not deducted from the
amount of the policy when it becomes
payable. The hospital benefit ceases
after age 60.
This office has permanent total dis-
ablement benefits; in such a case
(through an accident) the whole of the
policy becomes payable, with a maxi-
mum of £lOOO.
11 the assured should lose one arm,
leg or eye through an accident, the E.
and P. will pay immediately one-quarter
ot the sum assured, and premiums will
be reduced one-quarter. The remaining
three-quarters of the assurance will be
paid on the due date.
Life Offices Reviewed
A.M.P. Australia’s largest and oldest
existing life office has won a world-wide
reputation for results. Its healthy com-
petitors in the Commonwealth, though
not so large as the older society, have
earned the respect of the A.M.P. It is a
position that promises well for the future
WILLIAM BENNETT,
the City Mutual’s managing director.
of soundly-conducted life assurance in
Australia, provided Governments do their
, part.
A.M.P. funds total more than
£100,000,000, which is equal to the
present market value of all the shares in
Colonial Sugar, Broken Hill Prop., Bank
of New South Wales, Bank of Aus-
tralasia, British Tobacco, Queensland In-
surance Co., Dalgety’s, Myer Emporium,
Adelaide Steam and Dunlop-Perdriau
Rubber.
Investors in the society range from
small industrial policy-holders to those
holding large whole-life contracts. In
the Ordinary department the small
policy-holder participates in bonuses at
the same rate as the larger—-and that is
true also in the case of nearly all estab-
lished life offices.
The A.M.P.’s O.D. income last year
passed the £ 10,000,000-mark.
Last term, expenses (excluding taxes)
ran off with 13.8 p.c. of the Ordinary pre-
mium income, as against a shade over 13
p.c. in the previous term. The funds
netted £4 4s. p.c. (after paying taxes),
approximately the same yield as in 1934.
The office assumes that 3 p.c. will be
earned ; the margin of 245. p.c., the sav-
ing in exes., and the fact that mortality
has been only 56 p.c. of expectations in-
dicate the sources of the society’s hand-
some bonuses.
Recent distributions compare as
follows:—•
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1920.. ill, 324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1926.. 2,668,323 193,776 2,862,099
1930.. 2,849,056 226,578 3,076,234
1932.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3.044.141
The amount of Ordinary bonuses dis-
tributed last year was equal to 44.4 p.c.
of the premiums received, as against 47
p.c. in 1934.
The distribution of the funds is seen
in this table:
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Public securities. £55,044,719 56.5 £58,231,599 5<.2
JMortfifafres • • 21,742,196 22.3 23,0 <5,022 22.7
Loans on policies 16,135,307 16.6 16,181,560 15.9
Premises.. .. 1,718,767 1.8 1,886,779 1.8.
Other assets .. 2,711,530 2.8 2,494,085 2.4
The office is a great supporter of Gov-
ernment loans. It is the largest bond-
holder in the Commonwealth -represent-
ing the holders of over 1,100,000 policies.
4* T
National Mutual Life— This office
has a splendid record. It is the second-
largest Australian institution, and has a
reputation for conservative disposition ol
its funds. It has no Industrial branch.
The association was founded in 1869,
and from the beginning all policies have
contained the non-forfeiture provision,
representing the pioneering of this prin-
ciple. In 67 years there have been only
two general managers. The present gm.
(Continued on page 34.)


m
I mm
I
\
■ •
...
If
■
i as-as v
V,
HEAD OFFICE:
EQUITABLE LIFE BUILDING, QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES
WINGELLO HOUSE,
ANGEL PLACE,
OFF PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Nominal Capital
£500,000
m
«
*
■ ■
fell
VICTORIA;
COLLINS HOUSE,
COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
Subscribed Capital
£450,000
IF DEATH OR DISABILITY REMOVED YOU FROM
YOUR FAMILY PICTURE
WOULD YOUR WIFE . . . YOUR CHILDREN ... BE PROVIDED FOR ?
WOULD THERE BE SUFFICIENT CASH TO MEET CURRENT OBLIGATIONS - . -
PROBATE AND SUCCESSION DUTIES - . - LEGAL FEES?
IT is a fundamental of honesty and fair dealing to pay one’s debts and provide for one’s family ... a
matter of personal honor! Yet, many men, swept out of the picture—before their plans are completed
—leave heavy obligations behind—usually for someone near and dear to pay.
Wouldn’t it give you peace of mind . . . greater confidence . . . more satisfaction to-day, to-morrow, and
in years to come, to know you will be square with the world, no matter what happens to you?
LIFE ASSURANCE as provided by THE EQUITABLE PROBATE supplies the means
to the desired end.
EQUITABLE PROBATE POLICIES CARRY FREE HOSPITAL AND DISABILITY BENEFITS
IN THE EVENT OF SICKNESS OR ACCIDENT. WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.


THE MUTUAL
LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Founded 1886.
AGAIN
for the second year in succession
The M.L. C. has increased its
Ordinary Branch bonus rates
EXAMPLES: Whole-of-life policy, age 25 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for first year £2/5/-
p.c., increasing to £4/2/- p.c. for the 30th
year.
Endowment Assurance maturing at age 60,
age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus for
first year £1 18/- p.c., increasing to £3/2/-
p.c. for the 30th year.
REASONS why these results
are possible:
1. The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets
covering them are unsurpassed for
strength in Australia. 90 p.c. of the assets
of over £24,000,000 consist of Government,
Municipal and Local Body Loans and
Loans on Policies.
2. The mortality experienced, due to careful selec-
tion of risks, is extraordinarily light. Last
year the rate was the lowest in the Com-
pany’s history.
3. The Company is managed efficiently, and always
has been. Last year the expense rate was
under 9 p.c. of the total income.
4. The rate of interest earned on the funds and
reserves is only a few pence less than 5 p.c.
The rate assumed in valuing the Com-
pany s liabilities is 3 p.c., leaving a margin
of nearly 2 p.c. for profit.
Annual Income exceeds £3,300,000
Payments to Policyholders
exceed £32,000,000
ARTHUR M. EEDY,
Managing Director.
W. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
Head Office, M.L.C. Building,
Cnr. Castiereagh Street and Martin Place,
Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED
“ THE A.C.A.”
HEAD OFFICE;
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 86381 (3 lines).
DIRECTORS:
E. J. MOONEY, Esq. (Chairman and Managing Director),
T. J. PURCELL, Esq., P. J, RYAN, Esq., J.P.,
D. J. MOONEY, Esq.
BRANCH OFFICES;
VICTORIA:
A.C.A. Building,
118-126 Queen St., MELBOURNE,
c. A. ADAMS, Esq., Resident Sec.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Paringa Building,
13 Bindley St., ADELAIDE.
F. C. LOCK, Esq., Resident Sec.
QUEENSLAND:
A.C.A. Building,
270 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
M. J. HOGAN, Esq., Resident Sec.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
Warwick House,
St. George’s Terrace, PERTH.
B. MURPHY, Esq., Resident Sec.
SAFEGUARD THE FUTURE
WITH AN “A.C.A POLICY
THE •‘A.C.A." HAS CONTRACTS TO SUIT ALL
REQUIREMENTS. AND ALSO TRANSACTS FIRE
INSURANCE AT THE LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
WRITE OR 'PHONE FOR A REPRESENTATIVE
TO CALL.
(C. A. Norris) took over this year fol-
lowing the death of that life assurance
veteran E. J. Stock.
Annual income is now over the
£5,000,000-mark. The association has
just on £40,000,000 in funds. Head office
is in Melbourne, but the business spreads
throughout Australasia, Britain, S’Africa
and other parts of the Empire.
The office charges a low rate of pre-
mium, but pays highly satisfactory
bonuses. The funds generally are
assumed to earn 3 p.c. Last term £4 4s.
p.c. was netted. Expenses amounted to
approximately 13 p.c. of the net pre-
miums, whereas 15.2 p.c. is allowed for
in the premium charges. Mortality lately
has been only 57 p.c. of expectation.
The results of these favorable experi-
ences show up in the following compari-
son of actuarial valuations and surpluses
over a period of years:
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922. £16,557,695 £14,882,160 £1,705,499 £1 455 499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2 118 974
1928.. 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3.013A18
1931.. 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,430 3,577,833
1934.. 37,851,007 36,469,354 3,423,419 3,053,074
The association publishes results of such
investigations every three years. The
last covered the worst period of the
slump. Circumstances are already greatly
improved, and the valuation to Sept.,
1937, should show marked expansion in
bonuses.
Funds are distributed as follows:
~ ~ , 1934. p.c. 1935. p.c
Puhn° dS - -V • • £1,691,285 4.3 £1,726,462 4.2
Public securities .. 17,353,527 44.3 18,745,953 45.9
Mortgages . . , . 8,760,318 22.4 8,880,307 21 9
foreclosures ~ 336,768 0.9 374,628 0 9
Loans on policies.. 5,820,250 14.9 6,725,574 14 0
Other assets _ .. 5,156,122 13.2 5,327,629 is'.l
More attention has lately been given to
mortgages, especially through the office’s
house - purchase assurance scheme.
Group assurance is also a feature of
the activities.
** * *
Mutual Life and Citizens.— The
management here combines keenness and
enterprise in business-getting with con-
servative investment of funds. There is
£200,000 of share capital in this semi-
mutual office. Before shareholders can
get anything out of it, however, certain
results have to be achieved for policy-
holders. And over a period of years
now those results have been very
attractive.
™. Tot i funds are around £22,000,000.
The office looks for a 3 p.c. return on
its Ordinary department funds, and 2\
p.c. m the Industrial branch. There is a
possibility that further reductions will be
made in the O.D. rate later on. In any
case, the present basis is remarkably
strong. Last term the net return on
funds in the O.D. was £4 14s. p.c. (up
sd.)j leaving a surplus of 345. p.c. for
bonuses, etc.
The low rate which the office esti-
mates its funds will earn (as against the
actual earnings) is made possible by im-
provement in the mortality experience
over the last 30 years and by the eco-
nomical way in which the business is
handled; policy-holders’ prospects grow
brighter as interest' rates tend to harden.
Ordinary department expenses last
year were a shade heavier at 13.7 p.c. of
the net premiums and 9.2 p.c. of the
total O.D. income. The claims and sur-
renders experience has been highly favor-
able.
Surpluses available for bonuses —the
test of a life office—have behaved this
way lately:
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Ordinary . . £692,946 £552,320 £623,363 £671,296
Industrial .. 76,730 70,530 82,297 96,203
Total .. £769,670 £622,856 £705,660 £767,499
The total in both departments was up
£61,839, For the second year in succes-
sion, bonus rates on O.D. with-profit
policies were increased.
The solid nature of the funds shows
up in this table of assets:
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Public securities. £19,104,727 83.2 £19,929,882 82.8
Mortgages ~ 890,450 3.9 1,189,369 4.9
Loans on policies 1,911,402 8.3 1,857,846 7.7
Cash, book debts,
etc 470,400 2.0 492,659 2.0
Property . . .. 133,362 .6 133,611 .6
Other assets .. 463,919 2.0 473,660 2.0
£22,974,260 £24,077,027
Liabilities* .. 1,367,134 1,624,153
Net assets ..£21,607,126 £22,452,874
* Other than under policies.
Nearly 83 p.c. of policy-holders’ protec-
tion is in public securities. The high in-
terest yield suggests that these funds are
most conservatively stated, and that there
are large inner reserves.
It is the co.’s jubilee year (it was
founded on the last day of 1886), and a
new head-office building is to be put up
on the corner of Castlereagh-sfreet and
Martin-place, Sydney. An open com-
petition is being held among architects
for a suitable design.
o Continued on page 46.)


WE HAVE
CONSTRUCTED BUILDINGS
FOR THE FOLLOWING
ASSURANCE COMPANIES
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd.
' SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
ADELAIDE.
City Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
AND ITS ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
New Zealand and South Africa


Three Sketches of the Drama and Comedy of Justice in Early Australia:—
OUT OF THE
PAST
THE CAPTAIN OF THE MAINTOP.
J-H-M- ABBOTT.
IN the year 1826 H.M.S. Tartar lay in the mouth
of the Hunter River, opposite to the village or
township of Newcastle, which in those days was a
primitive little place, though terribly impressive in its
own peculiar fashion.
There was trouble aboard H.M.S. Tartar.
Jeremiah O’Brien, a handsome Irish giant and good
seaman out of Queenstown, regarded his commanding
officer with what was meant to be a look of contempt
tor such a monkey-faced, malevolent, malicious and
miserable specimen of mankind as was Captain Sir
Robert Devlin, Bart., R.N., who now sat in judgment
upon him for the heinous offence of dropping a mar-
linspike from the maintop and for commenting that
the purser, Mr. James Simmons, would never be
nearer hell before he got there than he had been when
the pointed steel rod had whirled to the deck behind
him and stuck, quivering, in the white planking.
But it was not on this account only that the auto-
crat of the Tartar ordered a court-martial.
Years before that Mr. Midshipman Devlin, being
left in charge of a two-gun battery on shore in some
military operations in the West Indies, had been cap-
tured by a negro sergeant of French infantry in so
grotesque a fashion as to cause the tale to be carried
on gales of laughter to whatever corner of the globe
the red cross of St. George floated on a King’s ship.
And just now this scurrilous blackguard O’Brien
had had the audacity to retort upon him!
“Well, y’r Honor, I ain’t never lost no guns!”
Intolerable! Damnable! Well, the fool would
pay for his wit!
AN the day the court-martial sentenced O’Brien to
" three hundred lashes and five years’ penal servi-
tude, Captain Sir Robert Devlin, R.N., was landed at
the King’s Wharf, intent on visiting the commandant,
the celebrated Major Morrisset.
“With the greatest pleasure in the world, my dear
Captain Devlin,” the major responded to Sir Robert’s
request that O’Brien should not be permitted to recline
on a bed of roses. “With very much pleasure, indeed.
It always affords me unlimited satisfaction to tame
these saucy ones. By the Lord, they learn to know
what discipline means at the Coal River, I promise
you! We’ll send this dicky-bird to the limeburners’
gang.”
“How about the breakwater, major? I have
observed from the ship that the prisoners employed
on that fine piece of engineering don’t enjoy what
might be termed an easy existence —up to their waists
in water and always in danger of being swept away
by the surf. I should think that O’Brien would be
the better for some experience on that construction—
for a time, at least.”
The major laughed.
“By heavens, Sir Robert, I can assure you that
compared with what he’ll undergo at the limeburners’
a spell on the breakwater would be a holiday for the
iellow. I can, indeed! You see, the peculiar efficacy
of the limeburning treatment lies in the fact that the
carrying of the bags of lime through the shallow
waters to the barges is apt to irritate raw backs to
quite an extraordinary degree. We’ll soon have Mr.
O’Brien feeding out of the hand. Oh, yes. As they
say here, my colonial oath!”
“Oh, well, thank you, major,” gratefully re-
sponded Sir Robert, reassured. “I’ll leave it to you.
You know,” he hesitated a moment frowning, “you
know I have a somewhat personal interest in this man.
A little private annoyance of my own, so to speak.”
WHAT is set out above happened in the beginning
of December, a month when heat and blowflies
are troublesome to sore backs, whose raw condition
is not improved by carrying on them bags of un-
slaked lime.
On a wet night in January, 1827, Mr. Jeremiah
O’Brien delivered himself of a commanding officer’s
exordium which prisoner Sir Robert Devlin, R.N.,
did not find either agreeable or reassuring. He had
been caught whilst on a shooting expedition up the
valley, the Tartar still being engaged in her surveying
operations in the Hunter. They had tied him securely
to a tree in a wet and dripping density of virgin forest
on the left bank of the Williams River, not very far
from its juncture with the Hunter, and by the blaze
of a great fire the arbiter of his fate contemplated and
gloated over him, striding back and forth with his
arms folded across his deep chest and addressing his
remarks partly to the haughtily silent naval officer
and partly to five unkempt and hairy men who
squatted in the rain and smoke about the burning
logs, steaming and shivering, and enjoying themselves
with melodramatic bitterness and zest.
"Luk at urn, b’ys—jest luk at um! A pretty
figure o’ fun now, ain’t he, I ask ye? This here’s
my quarter-deck, Cap'n Devlin, an’ me by’s’U do wid
ye as I tell ’em. Ye don’t loike th’ luk o’ thim, mebbe?
Aw, well, they’re all right when ye know ’em —a good
lot o’ fellies. Or, at laste, they used to be good fellies
afoor Mor'set started in for to tame ’em. Tame ’em!
Th’ murlherin' dog! From bein’ Christian sowls
he’s changed ’em into woild bastes that'd almost ale
wan another, they’s that mad an’ bedevilled wid all
he’s done to 'em. Gawd’s curse upon um —th' curse
o’ Crummle to um! Now, thin, me bowld poshl-
cap’n, ’tis afther tryin’ ye be coort-martial we’ll be
doin’, this blessed inshtant. Now, who’s th’ pris’ner's
fri’nd? Don’t arl o’ ye shpake at wance.”
“He ain’t got nary a fri’nd, Jerry,” cried one
of the outlaws. “Gawd don’t love him, an’ ’tis too
wet to-night for his fri’nd th’ devil. Flog th’ black
heart out o’ him. Never mind talkin’—let’s get t’
bus’ness.”
Mr. O’Brien made a gesture of deprecation and
shook his shaggy head.
“Nunno, b'ys, he give me what they called a fair
trial. He’ll have as.good an’ betther, so he will. I’ll
be his fri’nd, but also I'll be th’ prossycution an’ th’
Judge-Advocate an’ th’ President o’ th’ Coort like-
wise. An’ th’ dam’ lyin’ masther-at-arrums as well!
How d’ye plade, pris’ner?”
Ihe pale lace of their victim, his sunken eyes
deep shadowed by the fireglow, was set in firm and
scornful lines, so that not one of the half-human
brutes could find a fault in the steady courage with
which he faced the dreadful prospect of torture he
had no doubt they meant to inflict upon him.
THE prosecutor opened the proceedings.
* “Gintlemin o’ this hon’ble coort, th’ pris’ner,
Cap’n Sir Robert Devlin, Baronile, shtands char-rged
wid bein’ a crool, bad mahn on th’ high says and in
harbor, an’ more partic’lar wid havin’ pershecuted
Jeremiah O’Brien aboord his Majesty’s ship Tartar to
his very crool damnation be that devii, Big Tom
Knowles—may his bones rot in his body! He ray-
fuses to plade. Well, thin, th’ hon’ble coort’ll put in
a plea of ‘not guilty,’ so’s to give um ivry chance.
Call th’ fir-rst witness.”
He strode to the edge of the firelight, turned
and walked back to another position, facing the
prisoner. Bowing solemnly, he cleared a husky throat
and began:—
“Mr. Prisidint an’ officers o’ th’ hon’ble coort, on
th’ t’ird day of Decimber, Cap’n-o’-th’-maintop Jere-
miah O’Brien—th’ han’some young fellie ye see a-
standin’ afoor ye—him bein’ sittyated in th’ territory
over which he exercises shupervision, has th’ very
great misfortin for to drop his marl inspike from his
fisht so’s it fall upon th’ deck close alongside that
chatin’, lyin’ humbug, th’ purser—an’ th’ on’y pity is
it didn’t spike um t’rough th’ thick head of um. Th’
cap’n, him bein’ sour be natur, he gives Mishter
O’Brien such a sland’rous char-acther th’ Coort dishes
um out wid free hunnerd lashes an’ five years’ paynal
sarvitude. God damn ’em!”
He turned and bowed once more to the half-
circle of men crouching about the fire.
“Will th’ hon’ble coort now be plased for to pass
sintence?”
A yell of savage acquiescence in these summary
proceedings was the unanimous response.
“Skin th’ hound alive!”
“Roast him on th’ fire!”
“Put his damned eyes out!”
"Tie him naked to th’ mangroves and let th’
mosquitoes deal with him.”
The fifth man scrambled to his feet, his face
aflame with passion.
An undersized Cockney pickpocket was Mr.
Johnny Mutton, blind in one eye, and lame as the
result of his experiences at Limeburners’ Bay, whence
he had escaped with the Irish seaman, to found with
him this little band of bushrangers—all of whose days
were numbered, as each of them very well knew. He
hobbled across to Captain Devlin and spat in his
face. Then he turned to his companions, raising his
right hand to check their applause.
“Cullies,” he screamed. “Wot I say is give th’
th’ same as wot ’e got for Jerry. Flog ’is back
raw an’ then rub in quicklime. That'll teach ’im.
By Gawd, it will!”
A howl of approval greeted this savage inter-
pretation of the lex talionis, and the others scrambled
rheumatically to their feet, the steaming of their
drenched rags lending to them a sinister appearance
of demons in the dancing firelight. One of them —
a huge fellow known as Bill the Giant —leapt across
to where Captain Devlin stood lashed to his tree, drew
back his clenched fist and drove it with brutal force
into the white face of the helpless officer whose head
fell forward in unconsciousness.
And then Jeremiah O’Brien betrayed his utter
unfitness for such brigandage as obtained in the district
of the Lower Hunter in 1827. He did a thing—on
the spur of the moment, maybe, but one that was
held by his fellows to be inexcusable —which'disquali-
fied him for ever as leader of, or even a humble private
in, any of those bands of banditti which preyed upon
the outskirts of Australian civilisation a hundred
years ago.
“To hell wid ye!” he roared. “Ye dirty scum!”
He drew a pistol from his belt. “I’ll tache ye dacincy,
ye coward! ”
He jambed the barrel into Bill the Giant’s flat
features and pulled the trigger. For a moment the
others stood gaping in amazement. Then they fled
howling with terror into the depths of the black and
dripping forest.
AS the sun rose over the long levels of the fertile
flats now known as Nelson’s Plains, two figures
emerged from the forest near the confluence of the
Hunter and the Williams, and stood waiting on the
bank above the swaying fringe of reeds that edge the
streams on either shore. One of them wore the wet
garments of a naval officer and the other the equally
damp rags of a runaway prisoner. The officer had
a bruised and swollen face and the other man was
gaunt and hairy and starved-looking. They were
having some manner of argument—the officer expos-
tulating and pleading, the other scornful and insistent.
“Don’t be a fool,. O’Brien ; don't be a fool!
Come back with me and we’ll wipe everything out.
I owe you my life, and I promise you I won’t forget
it. Twas noble, indeed, your conduct last night.
Heaven knows what would have happened to me had
you not taken my part. Forget everything now and
come back to the ship. You can’t go back to those
brutes. Return with me to Newcastle and you’ll find
i’ll treat you well and will see to your advancement
in every way possible. I’ll make you my coxswain—
I’ll see to it that you’re promoted whenever a suitable
opportunity occurs. You’ll not have cause to regret
joining the ship again, I assure you of it, on my word
of honor.”
“Well, thin, Sir Robert, ye may save y’r break.
I’ll not go back. For why should Igo back? Think
o’ that now. What’d happen to me if I did? Sure,
thin, I know ; I know well.”
“You could come quietly aboard and none would
be the wiser where you were. We leave the Hunter-
River to-morrow, and in a month’s time we sail for
England. No one aboard the ship would give you
away. You’d be perfectly safe and secure. Think
what it means. On the one hand, the life of a hunted
and starving dog—on the other, freedom and liberty.
If you should not desire to remain in the navy after
we return home I pledge myself to find you a good
job ashore. I’d employ you on my own estate as a
gamekeeper—or in any capacity you might have a
fancy for. Come, now, be a reasonable man.”
Jerry O’Brien waved a hand to the corner of the
next bend upstream.
“Luk there,” he said. “ ’Tis th’ Tartar’s cutter
a-comin’ roun’ th’ corner. They’ve give over lookin’
for ye, Cap’n Devlin, an’ are on their way back to
Newcastle. D’ye think they’re sorry for to have lost
ye, sorr? I’ll go bail they’re not. But they’ll foind
ye here, an’ ye’ll be all right. Now, tell me this,
Cap'n Devlin, d’ye think ye’re out o’ th’ wood?”
“What do you mean, O’Brien? Of course, we’re
safe and rescued now. Come with me and I’ll swear
you won’t regret it. 1 entreat you to do as I ask.”
Jerry O’Brien laughed as he looked at his com-
panion. He drew his pistol from his belt and aimed
it at the other’s breast.
“Sir Robert,” he said with a grin of amusement,
“me back’s shtill sore from th’ ticklin’ ye got for me.
Twill be sore a long time, an’ I’ve not forgave ye
nor niver will. Now, wouldn’t it be a cunning joke
if I was to shoot ye dead this minit an’ lave y’r corpse
for thirri to take back to th’ ship? A foine play that'd
be, wouldn’t it now? A swate little joke, eh?”
Sir Robert Devlin stared at this strange Irish-
man in amazement. He saw that the pistol was cocked
and that there was more than jest in the. other's
manner. He wondered whether this was to be his
end. And then O’Brien put the pistol away again.
“Now, luk, Cap’n Devlin,” he said, “I’ll niver go
back. An’ for why? Because, here on th’ bank o'
th’ river, both you an’ me’s cap’ns alike. You’re th'
commander of a King’s ship, I’m cap’n o’ Jerry
O’Brien. An’ that’s more’n I’ve iver bin in arl me
life afoor. I’ll kape me rank. Git aboord y’r boat
an’ go to heli. But I wish ye good-bye—as wan cap n
to another.”


He turned and walked into the dense forest, this
captain of one perishing soul, leaving the other star-
ing after him from above the reedbeds.
“Well, well,” muttered Captain Sir William
Devlin humbly as he watched him go.
TRIPLETS.
AS has been previously related in these stories of
old Sydney, Mr. Acting-Deputy-Assistant-Com-
missary-General Pilkington had, upon his arrival
in 1816, secured as valet one William Larkins, serving
a sentence of five years’ transportation for bigamy.
“Wimmen, gov’nor,” it may be recalled the latter
once confided to his master, “ ’ave bin me darnfall.
Alius was and alius will be. Me first wife, sir th first
time —she presents me wi’ triplets, yT Honor. S elp
me —three at a litter! An’ I put up with it an stuck
to her. An’ what does yT Honor think? I give ye
me word, gov’nor, th’ nex’ time she done it again /”
It was- some time after this confession of his
marital misfortunes —perhaps it would be better to
call them unfortunate blessings—that William Larkins,
being in attendance upon his master at morning service
one Sunday at St. Phillip’s, had heard a female voice
that he recognised in the pew behind him. It was that
of the lady whom he alluded to as his “second” wife.
She spoke to him. As has been previously recorded,
William Larkins went temporarily insane on receipt
of her harrowing intelligence. With a wild yell he
sprang to his feet and threw his prayer-book over the
heads of the congregation—even over the august head-
piece of Governor Macquarie himself —into the
chance], fought his way out of the pew and ran down
the aisle and out of the church, to the very great
scandalising of the Rev. William Cowper, of his
Excellency and Mrs. Macquarie, and of such of the
rest of the congregation whom it might have been
possible to scandalise.
AND so we come to the following morning, outside
the new police office —or court, as we should
say now —where Mr. Pilkington, supported and sus-
tained by his friends Ensign Calder, of the 46th, and
Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, R.N., of H.M.S. Emu,
was anxiously awaiting the commencement of pro-
ceedings by the Crown against his faithful servant,
the miserable, unhappy and unfortunate Larkins.
“And, pway, Patthy,” asked Mr. Pilkington of
Ensign Calder, “pway, what kind of perthon ith thith
polithe magithtwate—thith Mr. D’Arthy Wentworth?
I have never met him.”
“Oh, not a bad old cock,
Brummell, my boy; not a
bad old cock at all. He s
the father of young Billy
Wentworth —him who was
first over the Blue Mountains
with Mr. Gregory Blaxland
and that old spark Billy Law-
son, of the Corps of Vet-
erans. He’s been pretty well
everything here: principal
surgeon, superintendent of
police, police magistrate, and
he’s had a hand in all sorts
of other things. A bit of a
nabob, you know, but not
half a bad old boy. He’s
often in the mess. Been one
of us, too, as you might say.
They tell the story that when
he was a young medical
student in London —walking
the hospitals, you know—-he
went out for a lark one night
with some other bright fel-
lows and played at being a highwayman. Damme,
yes—‘stand and deliver,’ and all that. As they
say here, he bailed up the royal mail on Houns-
low Heath, or some such place —just by way of a
joke, of course. But the Imperial authorities refused
to see the humor of the thing, and, haying the bad
luck to be nabbed, I’m damned if they didn’t put him
on his trial, by George, and send him out here. Years
ago, in old Governor Hunter’s time, it was, I believe.
Bad luck, eh? Gad, it’s just the sort of thing you
or I or Pansy here might ha’ done! Of course, they
never treated him as a prisoner, you know. Sent him
as surgeon down to Norfolk Island almost at once.
That’s where young Billy was born. Oh, not a bad
old cock at all!”
“Don’t look so glum, Brummell. If what Patsy
says is true —he does tell the truth by accident some-
times —Mr. D’Arcy Wentworth will most likely have
a lot of sympathy for poor Bill Larkins. God knows,
he deserves it! Lord, he’s a man to be proud of rather
than to condemn to the roads or the gaol-gang or
anything disagreeable like that! Look here. I’ll lay
you a guinea to a gallon of rum he gets off with a
wigging.”
Mr. Wicks did his best to alleviate the lowness of
spirits which possessed Mr. Pilkington. That gentle-
man shook his head gloomily.
“ ’Tith vewy dethent of you fellowth to twy and
put heart into a man over thith mitherwable buthineth,
but I fear the wortht. I do, indeed. You thee, ’tith
not thuch an awful thing to let out a yell in church,
but to pitch the pwayer-book over the head of Mac-
quawie himthelf! Damned like high tweathon, I
thyould think, to go heaving bookth about the
Governor’th coconut, by Gad! I fear the wortht for
poor William.”
“What do you propose to do when we get inside.
Brummell?” asked Mr. Calder.
“I’m going to athk if I may appear on the
pwithoner’th behalf. If they won’t let me do that
all I can do ith to tethtify ath to William’th many
virtueth. Ith thith Mr. Wentworth a-widin’ up now?”
“That’s him. Come along ; we’ll go inside. Keep
your pecker up, Brum.”
Mr. Calder led the way into the courthouse, where
Mr. Pilkington and his friends sat up interestedly
in expectation of the appearance of the unfortunate
Mr. Larkins.
But the first case was not his. It was that of
one Barabbas Epstein, charged with stealing from
the Public Stores, against whom the police evidence
was so strong that there seemed to be but small hope
for the shifty, ratlike, smirking little prisoner who
faced the magistrate.
“I know thith fellow,” whispered Mr. Pilkington.
“No doubt of hith guilt, at anywate. None at all.
He’ll go to the Coal Wiver or I’m vewy much mith-
taken. And therve him wight.”
But Mr. Pilkington wav mistaken. Mr. Epstein
produced a score of witnesses to testify to such a com-
plete alibi that the police magistrate had no option
but to discharge him.
“Well, I’ll be damned!” muttered the disgusted
Mr. Pilkington. “What doth Holy Thcwipture thay?
‘And he weleathed unto them Bawabbath, a thief,’
ithn’t it? Dithguthtin’! Well, if I catch the fellow
within one hundwed yardth of the Thtoreth I’ll bweak
hith infernal neck.”
“Here he comes,” whispered Mr. Wicks.
“William Larkins!” bellowed the court crier.
THE dejected William, still arrayed in the elegant
though unostentatious raiment necessarily worn by
Mr. Pilkington’s personal attendant at Sunday’s church
parade, bore traces in his battered countenance of the
mental anguish and despair which had rendered the
past twenty-four hours a purgatory. The sight, how-
ever, of his master and the two young officers appeared
to brighten him a little.
“William Larkins, per Andromache, five years,
Middlesex Sessions, 1814—charged with creating an
unseemly disturbance in St. Phillip’s Church during
There was a snigger in court that was instantly
suppressed. Mr. Pilkington went on.
divine service on the morning of Sunday, the 15th
instant; how do you plead, guilty or not guilty?”
gabbled the clerk of the court, a gentleman who was
himself doing fourteen years for manslaughter because
of a little affray in Lincoln’s Inn Fields.
Mr. Larkins looked appealingly at his master,
and Mr. Pilkington shook his head.
“I never done nothink, y’r Honor.”
“Say ‘your Worship,’ ” admonished the clerk
with a frown. “Are you guilty or not guilty? You
must plead properly.”
“Not guilty, y’r Worship, y’r Honor.”
Mr. Pilkington stood up, and there was an im-
mediate hush in the crowded court. With the excep-
tion of Macquarie himself, the best-dressed man in
Australia was easily the most notable and best-known
figure in Sydney in 1816.
“May it pleathe your Worthip—one moment,
pway! ”
Although they had, curiously enough, not met
personally, the famous Mr. Pilkington was very well
known by sight to the police magistrate. But it would
never do to admit so much.
“Who are you, sir?”
“My name ith Pilkington, your Worthip—Arthur
Moorefield Pilkington—and I have the honor to be
an offither in hith Majethty’th Commitharwiate Ther-
vith Acting - Atthithtant - Beputy - Committhawy-
Genewal, thir.”
“And what do you want, Mr. Pilkington?”
“I would be obliged, your Worthip, if you would
be tho good ath to permit me to appear on behalf of
my unfortunate —I mean, the accuthed perthon, your
Worthip. Merely, thir, to watch the cathe in hith
interwethth, tho to thpeak.”
“Are you an attorney, Mr. Pilkington?”
“God forbid! —I mean no, your Worthip.”
“Then, of course, I can’t permit you to appear,
sir ; but at the proper time you may give such evidence
on the prisoner’s behalf as you may think fit. But
I see Mr. William Bumble in court, who is a solicitor.
Perhaps the prisoner might wish to retain his
services?”
Mr. Pilkington, it so happened, had not long
before thrown Mr. Bumble, drunk and impudent,
down the stairs at the Stores. He shook his head.
“I do not think tho, your Worthip.”
“Very well. I must request you to be seated, sir.
We will proceed with the evidence.”
THE evidence was very simple and conclusive. A
constable deposed to the arrest of the prisoner at
Moorefield Villa, near Bawes Point, the residence of
Mr. Pilkington, in whose service the prisoner was.
Another policeman, who had been on duty in the
church, gave a somewhat highly-colored version of
the disturbance during morning service, the day
before, at St. Phillip’s.
But it remained for the verger, Mr. Nathaniel
Bolman, an ascetic, pale individual who appeared
to be suffering from a perpetual sense of shock at
the sinfulness of the world in general and of Mr.
Larkins in particular, to say the words that seemed to
impress Mr. Wentworth most forcibly with regard
to the heinousness of the accused man’s offence.
“I do assure your Worship that the prayer-book
flew through the hair but a bare yard above ’is Hex-
lency’s ’ead. My ’eart was in my mouth, your Wor-
ship. ’Ad the sacred missile a-been but a bare three
foot lower it mighter ’it the Gov’nor be’ind the ’ear.
It looked to me, y’r Worship, as if this wicked man
’ad haimed delib’rate hat ’is Hex’lency. May Gawd
forgive ’im, says I, for I never will! ”
Mr, Wentworth informed Mr. Pilkington that
now was his time to speak if he wished to say any-
thing on behalf of the prisoner.
With much dignity, gravity and elegance, Mr,
Pilkington walked across the courtroom to the wit-
ness-box. Here, having taken his stand, he took snuff
with all that elaborate ceremonial for which he was
noted in the accomplishment
of this fashionable rite. Hav-
ing finally returned his snowy
cambric handkerchief to his
pocket, he looked at Mr.
Wentworth inquiringly.
“Well, Mr. Pilkington,”
asked that gentleman a little
impatiently, “what have you
to say? Pray, proceed, sir—
pray, proceed. The time of
the Court is valuable. Be
good enough to begin, sir.”
“Your Worthip,” said
Mr. Pilkington, with an air
of speaking rather in sorrow
than in anger and of throw-
ing the case of his servant
entirely upon the mercy of
the Court, “I have not a
gweat deal to thay. I would
wish to wemark that thith
unfortunate man Larkinth
hath been in my employ-
ment. He ith a motht pwaith-
worthy perthon, your Wor-
thip, and hath a vewy dirty
left. Oh, I beg your pardon,
thir —pewhapth that’th a little
iwelevant. But I would athk
your Worthip to put your-
thelf in thith poor man’th
plathe yethterday ath he that
devoutly in church. And
that you may do tho, I mutht
acquaint your Worthip with
the thircumthtantheth of hith
awwival in the colony. Ath
you have heard in the indict-
ment, he wath thent here for
five yearth for bigamy. When I tell you, your Worthip,
that the worthy woman whom he firth ethpouthed
pwethented him in the uthual courthe of time with
thwee luthty infanth, 1 have no doubt you will feel
that he ought to be congwatulated. But when I inform
you that in another twelvemonth there were thwee
more —well, I think your Worthip will agwee with me
that he hath been hardly uthed by Fate.”
Mr. B’Arcy Wentworth covered his mouth with
his hand as he nodded to Mr. Pilkington, pausing to
give effect to this solemnly-enunciated statement, to
proceed. There was a snigger in court that was in-
stantly suppressed. Mr. Pilkington went on.
“It wath not unnatural that thith afflicted man
thould theek contholation elthewhere. Tho he very
impwudently eontwacted another allianth, wath
almotht immediately appwehended, charged with
bigamy and thententhed to twanthportation for five
yearth. Yethterday in the church the voith of
that thecond wife of hith informth him that she’th
awwived in Thydney. She further informth him that
she’th brought their thwee childwen with her. Well,
Mr. Wentworth, I leave thith poor fellow’th feelingth
to your imagination, and twust that you will find
thufficient mitigating thircumthtantheth in hith cathe —
conthidewing the pwovocation he wethieved yethterday
—to overlook hith offenth and dithcharge him from
cuthtody. That ith all I have to thay, your Worthip.”
Mr. Pilkington bowed deferentially to the police
magistrate, and stepped down into the body of the
court, where he rejoined his two companions. With
grateful tears in his eyes, Mr. Larkins looked at him
like a faithful dog. Mr. Wentworth did not speak
for a little time. All the Court wore a broad grin.
Presently the police magistrate spoke.
“Six months’ hard labor on the roads,” he said.
He rose from his seat and walked through a door at
the back of the bench.
MR. PILKINGTON gasped. Then he sprang to his
feet and strode outside the building, his two
friends following him in alarm.
(Continued on next page.)


Bright New Serial Story
5s
U
AM A THE A ”
By Henry G. Lomond.
Author of “Horns and Hooves,’’ “Tooth and Talon” and An Aviary on
the Plains,” Henry G. Lamond is well known as one of the most engaging
writers of wild and semi-wild nature lore that we have.
“Amathea” is the story of a blood mare of the Western Queensland country,
where thought is given to good breeding. Mr. Lamond, who knows that
country and its people thoroughly, brilliantly paints in the scene, the people,
the wild life, and, above all, the splendid horses: the stallion ruling the
community of brood mares like a sultan, fighting to the death for them when
another stallion strayfc there; the friendly association of horses and men;
the races.
The principal character is the fine mare Amathea, from the buying of her
racing mother to her own tests on the race tracks. Amathea, as her breeder
comments, is no fairytale mare: she is real, as are the men who handle her,
the scene and the life altogether.
First Instalment of "Amathea"
in Next Week's "Bulletin."
I
THE
‘BOULIA’
BIG-DIP
STOCK
SADDLE
£l4/18(6
MOUNTED.
Has plenty of dip in
the seat and the
pads are s£in. high.
It has the popular
short panel with
leather facings at
back. It is built on
a best “Fouright” Tree and of first-
grade materials throughout.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
This stout Orthopaedic model for men is
stocked in Black or Brown Calf, in full and
half sizes, with narrow, medium and wide
fittings to every half size.
Prices: Black, 37/6; Brown, 39/6.
Use Abbey Polish, 6d. per tin.
WRITE FOR
LATEST CATALOGUE.
WALK IN
COMFORT. . .
WITH ORTHOPEDICS.
IF you suffer the least bit with
foot troubles, change at once to
Orthopaedic Shoes. Don’t blame
your feet, because in most cases
they are innocent.
Abbey Orthopaedic Shoes, as their
name denotes, are shoes made as
close as possible to the shape of
the human foot —straight inner
line, carefully curved outer line—
these are the things which make
for real comfort.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
W.A. 41.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING
IN WESTERN
CAMPAIGN
AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Syd tey Representative:
HAL. J. JOHNSTONE,
V'ingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Arrived in the open air, the exquisite's feelings
found vent in a single exclamation.
“Pontiuth Pilate!” he remarked bitterly.
"‘Who —who’s Pontius Pilate?” asked Mr. Calder.
“Why, that damned magithtwate! He weleatheth
Bawabbath an’ cwuithifieth Bill Larkinth.”
Mr. Wicks shook with a spasm of laughter.
Before he could reply up rode Major Antill. A.D.C. to
his Excellency.
“I say, Pilkington,” he said cheerfully, “what's
happened to that fellow of yours who made all the
row in church yesterday?”
“Thikth month!” replied Mr. Pilkington gloomily.
“Oh, well, that’s all right. I’ve got the Governor's
order for his immediate release in my pocket. I say,
you know it was fairly clever of you to tell Mrs,
Macquarie his story yesterday —when you came up
to apologise. She hasn't done laughing yet.”
THE COWPASTURES.
MR. JAMES MACDONALD was a very old man
when he died in 1890, and the land he owned
in New South Wales and Queensland was
measurable by units of thousands of square miles.
But it is doubtful if any
of the vast quantities of Aus-
tralian surface soil he pos-
sessed himself of between 1830
and 1890 ever brought him
quite such a thrill of satisfac-
tion as the ownership he sup-
posed himself to have estab-
lished in portion of the famous
Cowpastures in 1825, when he
was a young man with a hope-
ful soul and had not yet de-
veloped into the hard, infallible
and not overscrupulous in-
human being who grew out of
that bitter experience.
THE full-rigged ship Lady
Huntingdon lay at anchor
in the mouth of Sydney Cove,
between the grey bastions of
Fort Macquarie and the green
glacis of Dawes Battery oppo-
site, on a beautiful April day
during the last year of Lieu-
tenant-General Sir Thomas
Brisbane as autocrat of the
Australias. The Lady Hunt-
ingdon differed greatly from
most of the ships bringing pas-
sengers into Port Jackson in
(hose distant years, mainly for
the reason that the passengers
had paid their fares and had
not arrived as guests of Gov-
ernment. They were a fairly
well-to-do class of people, and,
though they had inevitably
many troubles ahead of them,
there were few who did not
eventually make good. Some
of them, like Jamie Mac-
donald, made very good.
Top-hatted and wearing
his shore-going clothes, which
included a pair of hessian
boots, the captain came out of
the cuddy and noticed Jamie
standing by the starboard
carronade. >
“Well, then, Mr. Macdonald,” he cried heartily,
“so here we are at last, with all our adventures ahead
of us and all our lives to have ’em in, eh? And what
may your immediate plans be, my young friend,
pray?’ Search for a lodging first, I suppose. And
then a job, eh? Well, ye can’t start looking for it
100 soon.”'
A showily-dressed individual in tight pantaloons
of a large check pattern tiptoed after him across the
deck from the port side of the cabin entrance where
he had been standing, the better to hear what Jamie
might say in reply. ‘"Gentleman Dick" Chester never
neglected an opportunity to improve his knowledge
of the plans and aspirations of new arrivals. That
was his purpose in coming aboard the Lady Hunting-
don this afternoon: and here was opportunity, a
thing Mr. Chester’s worst enemy could never accuse
him of neglecting.
A handsome young fellow was Richard Chester.
Esq., of no particular occupation now that his ticket-
of-leave need not be produced on the demand of any
constable. Members of his ancient profession still
meet the ships that bring immigrants to Australia,
and nowadays the police speak of them—sometimes
not without a certain respect—as “confidence men,
but in those days it was usual to style them "swell
mobsmen.”
Mr. Chester heard the young man respond to
the captain's greeting in the Scottish manner, and
realised that he must walk warily —for he knew that
the Scotch are a cautious and a canny race. They
were to be treated with anything but crudity.
“Oh, aye, Captain Herring,” said Jamie, smiling
his broad and friendly smile. “I’ll juist awa tae th
toon an’ spier aboot a wee bittie an" seek a hoose
to shelter in, whaur a mon may get bite an’ soop
whiles he bides in yon Sydney. But I’ll nae be lang
■ .
ashoar, lor 1 maun tak me bit baggage an pit it
ashoar forbye when Ive loond me a place to bide
in.”
“Well, then, come with me in my gig,” said the
captain hospitably. “I may be able to direct your
footsteps. Come, the boat’s at the foot of the ladder,
I’m bound for Government House—l have some pack-
ages for Sir Thomas—telescopic fittings, they are, for
his observatory at Parramatta—l was specially en-
trusted with them by his agents. A great stargazer.
his Excellency : he knows more and cares more about
the heavens that ever he'll know or care about 'New 7
South Wales. And I think I can put you on your
way to w'here you'll find a lodging. Come along.
Mr. Macdonald.”
Gentleman Dick watched them go over the side ;
then he returned on shore himself, telling the boat-
man to land him where Captain Herring landed. He
did not mean to lose sight of this interesting young
stranger.
Mr. Chester walked up to Macquarie-place behind
the shipmaster and the young gentleman, and actually
heard the latter directed to an establishment in Phillip-
street, with which he was well acquainted.
THE pleasantest fellow he had ever met came to stay
at Mrs. Allan's “select pension for the genteel” in
Phillip-street, two nights after Jamie Macdonald had
taken up his quarters there. Such a charming, open-
faced, open-handed, genial fellow as not even the
dourest of Scots might have been able to resist —and
Jamie was far from being “dour” at that time, though
in later years it was said that the sternness of his
visage would turn milk sour.
They became friends, this Mr. Arthur Broadbent
and Jamie, and went about to-
gether or to see the sights,
which mostly consisted of the
band of the 57th Regiment in
Hyde Park two afternoons a
week and an occasional execu-
tion at the end of Castlereagh-
street, where it joined up with
the scrub, somewhere about
the present intersection of
Park-street. They went fish-
ing together over at Great
Sirius Cove, and once or twice
a week they rode into the
country, well armed with pis-
tols in case they should meet
with bushrangers. Jamie ex-
pressed a desire to look over
the gaol in Lower George-
street, but somehow that ex-
cursion never came off.
So in about three weeks’
time, without going into de-
tails as to all that happened in
the interval, we discover Jamie
Macdonald riding a not-very-
good sort of horse, which had
been sold to him by Mr.
Broadbent, down the new
southern road, bound for the
famous Cowpastures country,
500 acres of which he believed
himself to have become pos-
sessed of, having bought them
for £450 of the £5OO which ho
had brought to the colony.
Besides Mr. Broadbent's
receipt, which empowered him
to take possession of the farm
from Mr, John Macarthur,
Mr. Broadbent’s bailiff at the
Cowpastures, he had a letter
of introduction to Mr. Mac-
arthur and an exquisitely
drawn map, done by his
talented friend, in which his
acres were shaded pink and
labelled with the name they
had chosen together, which
was “Macdonald’s Luck.’*
. uiquiring for Mr, John Macarthur in the
neighborhood ol Cobbitty, he discovered that the
gentleman had quite a local fame, and when, after
direction, he found his house at Camden Park, he
was still more impressed by the obvious wealth and
importance of Mr. Broadbent, whose bailiff, or man-
a § er ’ could afford to dwell in such a mansion.
He rode up to that fine house with a smile of
anticipation on his face to interview Mr. Macarthur.
After the next twenty minutes James Macdonald was
never known to smile again until a memorable morn-


BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED)
AT JUNE 30, 1936 (including the figures of the London Branch by Cable).
liabilities;
Capital Paid Up £4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund 4,300,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 4,739,012 10 0
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Deposits and other Liabilities ..
Profit and Loss Account .. ..
£00,203.043 3 7
Coin, Bullion,
A u s t r a lian
Notes an il
Ca e jh at
Bankers
Money at Short
Call
S li o r t-d a t e d
Britis h
Treasury Bills
S h o r t-d a t c d
Treasury Bills
of the Com-
monwealth of
Australia
British and
A u s t r a lian
G o v eminent
Stocks an d
other Securi-
ties ..
Bills Receiv-
able i n
London and
Rein ittances
in Transit . .
Notes and Bills
of other
Banks
ASSETS.
£7,410,341 19 10
1.085.000 0 0
100,000 0 0
4.450.000 0 0
5,409,009 0 0
2,143,084 3 6
519,900 12 8
Bills Discounted and other Debts
due to the Bank
Bank Premises, Furniture, etc. .
£21,117,982 5 C
37.853.871 8 7
. 1,231,78!) 9 6
£00,203,043 3 7
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim dividend for the half-year
ended December 31, 1935, at the
rate of 6 per cent, per annum,
paid on January 28, 1936
„ Bank Premises Account..
Balance proposed to be dealt with
as follows: —
To Dividend for
the half-year
ended June 30,
1936, at the rate
of 6 per cent, per
annum .. ...£142,170 7 6
„ Amount carried
forward . . • • 110,226 2 4
£142,170
25,000
252,396
7 6
0 0
9 10
£419,566 17 4
By Amount brought forward from
June 30, 1935 .. .. .. £121,339 12 7
~ Profit for the year ended June
30, 1930 298,227 1 9
£119,506 17 4
J Ail Kb ASHTON. Chairman.
C. DAHVALL, General Manager.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the cash in
the Head Office of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have Compared the returns
of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance fe'heet.
C. H. DOYLE 1
Sydney, July 17, 193 G. HAHINGTON B. COWPER J
Auditors.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE BEST IS THE CHEAPEST.’
/ V
f
>l5
m
swi:
£HS>
Billabong Wind Mills are known and used by
Farmers and Pastoralists all over Australia..
Billabong to them means years of service and trouble-
free running.
BUY BILLABONG WIND MILLS,
PUMPS and TROUGHING.
THE BEST BUILT.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Made in Australia by
BILLABONG
TROUBLE PROOF
WIND MILLS
AUTO OILED
ENCLOSED GEAR
ftt*DANKS&'
r
391-403 Bourke St., MELBOURNE.
324-330 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ing in the summer of 1850, the Year before the Gold.
Which, when you come to reckon it up, was twenty-
five years—a long time to refrain from laughter.
If was a hot morning in the courthouse at Scone, in
the Upper Hunter River district of New South
Wales, and the sole occupant of the bench was James
Macdonald, Esq., J.P., of Drumlossie, the old-time
station property whose red brick homestead still
nestles amidst peach-trees in a willowy bend of the
Kingdom Ponds Creek, a little to the north-westward
of the town. The month was January, and the day
the second of the year 1850.
Because all the district is very Scotch of extrac-
tion, and was even more noticeably so eighty-six
years ago than it is to-day, no one had been run in
for celebrating Hogmanay too unwisely. The sergeant
of police mentioned the fact almost apologetically that
there was but one case for his Worship to adjudicate
upon that morning. The Clerk of Petty Sessions
grinned at the sergeant and the sergeant grinned back
at him. The presiding magistrate did not grin, for
he was never known to do so.
“What is the case, sergeant?” asked Mr. Mac-
donald.
“An idle and disarderly, y’r Wusship. Been in
th’ cells since Christmas Eve, no magistrates bein’
availlyble, sorr. Shall I bring him in? ’Tis but an
admonishin’ I’m thinkin’ he’ll be wantin’, sorr. He’s
cut me enough wood for to see us t’rough half th’
winter, so he has, for th’ good tucker me missus fed
to him. I’d be sorry for to see him dealt wid* if it’d
plase y’r Wusship.”
Mr. Macdonald nodded solemnly and sat back
in his chair to await his victim.
THE sergeant returned with his prisoner—a sham-
bling, round-shouldered, furtive fellow, who might
have been seventy, but was probably younger. He
avoided looking at anyone, and the magistrate was
hardly given an opportunity of studying his evasive
face, for he kept his head bent.
The sergeant began to explain to Mr. Macdonald.
“This pore fellie, sorr —though ye’d not think it,
he’s a rale bad ’un —though there’s nothing agin him
this toirne, exceptin’ that he’s alive whin he’d be
betther off dead. ’Tis us’al for to run him in, sorr,
vvhiniver he comes into a town where he’s known —
just for to make him fale at home loike. An ould
hand,’ he is, sorr —Norfolk Islander —an’ lasht year,
he tells me, he finished a stretch at Cockatoo. Th’
polis don’t press for anny pinalty, seein’ a fair dale’s
a fair dale, an’ he’s been jugged for th’ holidays. Th'
risin’ o’ th’ Coort, y’r Wusship, I’m a-thinkin’ wud
meet th’ case, an’ him for to be tould to clar out o’
th’ town.”
“What’s his name, sergeant?” asked the clerk.
Mr. Macdonald picked up a pen to record the sentence
the sergeant had suggested.
“His name, Mr. Martin? Bedad, ’tis mesilf’s clane
forgot it, sorr. What are ye called, me mahn? Don’t
bother about the aliases —jist give us th’ name ye had
whin they shipped ye to Bot'ny Bay—an’ that'll be
a day or two ago, I’m thinkin’.
Still with his eyes on the floor, the fellow
mumbled something.
“What does he say, sergeant?” asked the magis-
trate.
“Richard Chester, sorr.”
James Macdonald sat bolt upright in his chair
and glared at the prisoner. His face went pale.
Almost, with a spasm that shook his whole lean face,
he seemed momentarily to struggle for self-control.
For a few seconds he said nothing. Then, in a strange,
dry voice, he spoke.
“Sergeant, I know something about this man.
Take him back to the cells. 1 will speak to him there.
His case is adjourned until this afternoon.”
“Very good, y’r Wusship,” mumbled the aston-
ished sergeant. “Come along, Dick.”
“You needn’t wait, Mr. Martin,” said James Mac-
donald to the C.P.S. as he left the bench. “And don’t
come back unless I send for you. 1 expect you're
tired. I can do all that’s necessary. Go home —and
a happy New Year to you.”
“Thank you, your Worship.”
IN the little brick yard behind the two cells of the
lockup, where Sergeant O’Brien exercised his
prisoners and kept his stock of firewood for the winter,
Mr. Macdonald found the doddering old gaolbird
whom he had formerly known as a smart and debonair
young scion of prosperity on his first acquaintance
with Australia. It seemed incredible to him that this
shuffling “lag,” this obvious “old hand” of the hull
Phoenix and Norfolk Island, could be the jaunty and
assured young fellow he had so unhappily known a
quarter of a century before. But it was “Gentleman
Dick” —of that he had no doubt whatever.
An axe leaned against the wall of the yard, and
the fellow was fumbling with a iog of wood. Mr.
Macdonald noted how wearily he lifted it into a
position to be chopped—the man was old and feeble
and obviously at the end of the race. He took no
notice of his visitor until addressed directly.
“Mon,” said Jamie, relapsing into the native Scots
he had long outgrown, “ye’ll be Gentleman Dick
Chester, noo —the mon I hunted for sae wearily and
sae vengefully, ’tis mony the year agone? Tell me,
hoo did ye dodge me?”
The vagrant turned and blinked at him with no
sign of recognition in his drawn and weary face, but
did not immediately answer.
“Losh, then, d’ye no’ ken me? D’ye no’ call tae
mind th’ braw young lad ye took in over th’ Cow-
pasture far-rm? Answer me, mon —’tis i’ ma power
tae mak’ ye. I could or-rder ye th’ stocks gin 1 was
sae mindit, or even th’ lash. Hae ye no’ a tongue i’
v’r heid?” .
The derelict shivered at mention of ’the cat.
He found his tongue as he shook his head dejectedly.
“Flog and be damned to you,” he said. “I don't
know you.”
“Four-fifty poond, ’twas, for a braw wee map
wi’ ‘Macdonald’s LuQ,k’ in pink done on it fine. And
a letter tae John Macarthur. And a lame horse —-
an’ wor-rse than that. Five-an’-twenty years I’ve never
trusted ma fellow-man —for a’ that time I’ve never
enjoyed ma life a-thinkin’ o’ th’ way Mr. Macarthur
smiled at me, James Macdonald. D’ye not recall me,
mon?”
With an effort the other straightened his bent
back and stared at James Macdonald. Slowly recollec-
tion lit his lined face, and momentarily a cunning
grin distorted his features. It was gone in a second,
and he spat savagely on the brick pavement of the yard.
“To hell and blazes with you and your four-fifty
pounds! The worst day’s work I ever did. I wish
I’d never seen your blasted ginger head! I got drunk
and picked a pocket and was lagged again—and I’ve
been through hell since then. The Island, and then
Port Arthur, and then the Island again. God, I’ve
paid for your Cowpastures farm! Oh, God, yes —I
remember you! You couldn’t find me because I was
in Sydney Gaol when you returned from Camden
Park. But I’ve paid for your farm ten times
over. The debt’s cancelled, Mr. Jamie Macdonald.
Anyhow, I don’t see how you’re going to collect.”
James Macdonald folded his arms across his
chest and began to pace up and doym the bricks
within the dark shadow that a hot sun made half-way
across the pavement beneath the blue tent of glaring
blue sky overhead. Six times he walked back and
forth before he spoke.
When he stopped and turned to the cringing yet
defiant figure of the broken man, the long-absent
smile had come into his good-looking face, and as
he straightened his back and put his hands into the
pockets of his peg-top pantaloons a score of years
seemed to have fallen away from him. He was again
the eager, grinning, enthusiastic young Scot who had
come ashore from the Lady Huntingdon with Captain
Herring in 1825.
“Mon,” he said slowly, still smiling, “ye’ve no
paid me, though I mak’ no manner o’ doobt ye’ve
settled wi’ Almighty God, an’ paid bitter interest for-
bye. But I’m goin’ for tae see that ye settle up. I’ll
gie ye y’r dischar-rge frae this place an’ ye’ll come
oot tae Drumlossie wi’ me th’ noo.”
“You can’t do that. You’ll have to commit me
and send me for trial and then apply to the Superin-
tendent of Convicts for my assignment to you. I’m
not going to your station to slave for you, damn you!
Not unless I’m made —legally.”
“You’re coming, Arthur Broadbent —for yon’s
the name I best like ye under —ye’re coming as my
guest for the rest of your life. You’re th’ on’y men's
ever ta’en me doon —an’ I'll be prood for tae ha ye
at Drumlossie.
Mr. James Macdonald left the yard to seek
Sergeant O’Brien. He was still smiling.


Life’s so much easier
with a
/% W
w JL
So much easier and so much simpler. A few seconds on
fhe strop and the blade is ready to give you a perfect
shave-—a blade that will last for weeks.
Shaved, you stand for a second amazed at the smoothness
of your face. Then in less than a minute the razor is rinsed
and dried, and you are out of the bathroom in no time
You see, with a "Valet" there is nothing to unscrew,
nothing to take to pieces—not even the blade to take
out. That's the secret of its success—and your quick
shaving. Life's so much easier with a "Valet"—the original
self-stropping razor still the simplest and the best
Get one to-day.
m.
Os
VAX.
fry
R *rop
''Sw Jf BLADE
No. 99 Utility Set contains the essentials of a perfect "Valet" Shave,
self-stropping Model C Razor, three blades in plated sheath, and
a leather strop in container. The whole in serviceable AJ Z
black leatherette case "T O
OTHER SETS FROM 9/- TO 65/- • OF ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
Not All Dogs Are Alike:-
KENNEDY'S DOG
BY H.A. LINDYSAY.
WHEN Locky McKinnon saw the
dust rising from Kennedy’s sheep-
yards he reined in, tied his horse to
a sapling and walked across the paddock.
He found Kennedy wading round in a
pen of fat wethers, dabbing a brand on
their rumps.
“Saw ye were doing a bit of sheep
work, so I came over to look at the new
dog,” the visitor announced. “How does
she work, Jock?”
You could always tell the sort of
humor Jock Kennedy was in by the
length of time he took to answer. When
a full minute elapsed before he replied,
McKinnon knew that the old man was
very liverish indeed.
“Hey, lad,” the squatter rasped at
length, “if ye’ve called in to see ma new
dog working ye’ll go as wise as ye came,
for seeing her work is more than I’ve
done, blast her.
I’m shooting her
when I’ve got this
bit of work done.”
McKinnon
stared at him, his
eyebrows raised
in surprise.
“What?” he de-
manded. “Ye’re
going to shoot
the dog that ye
had sent all the way oot from
Scotland ? Man, what’s wrong wi’ her?”
"Everything’s wrong wi’ her. The
daft gomeril only stands and gawks at
me. She’s no use whatever.” He
pointed with the branding-iron at a
near-by bluegum. “She’s under the tree,
if ye want to look at her.”
McKinnon walked to the tree and
stood looking down at the bitch. She
thumped the ground with her tail and
looked at him with ears cocked, but
when he spoke she dropped her head
on her paws again, a look of dumb be-
wilderment in her soft brown eyes. She
looked all right, McKinnon reflected, as
he studied the shapely body and noted
the width of her head. She was very
like old Maillie, the bitch whom he had
worked when he shepherded sheep on the
hillsides above Glen Moriston in his
boyhood. He squatted beside the dog
and ran a hand over her silky coat; she
flinched as his hand passed over her ribs.
“Ye've been kicked, eh?” he muttered,
feeling her body with gentle fingertips,
“Yes, and here’s another domned great
bruise. Ye poor wee thing, ye ; what have
ye done that auld Jock should knock ye
aboot like this, sonsie bawtie?” he
said, and in an instant the bitch was on
her feet; warm, wet tongue slobbering
at his face and tail wagging in frantic
joy. ~
“Hey?” he cried, picking up his hat
and holding the dog off, “what’s gone
wrong wi’ ye, lass?” Then his mouth
opened in amazement as he realised what
the dog’s behavior meant, and he gave a
hurried glance at the sheepyards.
. ir , , , , . ,
od . “ y * r f was f^ rnec
towards them, and Locky s face widened
“J* !™j „ He " alke ? , back , t 0 ««
yards cuttmg a fill of tobacco to hide
he shaking of his hands. Leaning on
he top rail, and striving to make his
voice sound normally casual, he indicated
the wethers with h.s pipe-stem.
Sending a mob away? he inquired,
Yes. Ive sold this lot to Masters
and Jfogan.’
“Juist what did the pup cost ye,
J° c k? ”
Kennedy looked up with an expres-
sion that showed he would like to tell
the visitor to mind his own business,
then growled “A mint o’ money, if ye
must know. Ten pound to buy her and
another ten to land her here.”
“She’s a pretty thing, Jock, even if
she canna work sheep. Seems a pity to
shoot her.”
“What the devil should I do with her,
then?” the squatter retorted.
McKinnon pretended to think for a
few moments.
ttTi ,, . . , , ,
It d be a shame to shoot such a
pretty dog he remarked trying to
appear as if he was turning the matter
over in h.s mind, and the wife often
asks me lo get her a pet dog. Tell ye
what, Jock, I give ye a pound foi
iet ' . .
He pulled the stem out of his pipe,
blew through it to clean it, then
looked up. “What’s wrong with ye?” he
demanded, answering Kennedy’s look of
surprise. “Here’s your money, if that’s
what s worrying ye.” He fished out a
handful of silver, counted a little heap
of coins on to the top of the nearest
post, and gave an inward chuckle of
glee when Kennedy picked it up.
Locky hunted through his pockets and
produced an old envelope and a stub of
indelible pencil. He scribbled a few
words, then looked up. “What might
her name be now?” he inquired,
“Skelpie—though devil a bit of run-
rung has she done for me. Is that a
receipt yere making oot?”
“ft is. I wouldn’t buy a billygoat
wi’out a receipt, after the domned fuss
there was aboot that pony stallion 1
bought last year.”
Locky added a few more words to the
paper, handed it over, and Kennedy
scribbled a sprawling signature. Locky
pocketed the paper, pulled out his
pocket-knife, and strolled over t<a , t * le
le . e , a willow stick. He had jusl
trimming it up when Masters
and Hogan arrived,
. , , , , ,
I OCKY waited until the sheep had een
" tallied out of the yard and the de-
livery note signed, then he unchained his
new ’
“Ever see a Scots dog work sheep?” he
inquired looki a t Charley Masters
and Tim Hogan. They shook their heads,
.. WeH no « ther< ..,, y a world differ .
ence be ’ tween ’ them and an Australian
dog ,” McKinnon said , give y( . a
tip, in case ye ever get Scots dogs your-
selves. It wouldn’t be fair for the
Chineemen to expect ye to talk Chinese
the moment ye set foot in their country,
and it’s the same wi’ a Scots dog when
he comes oot to Australia. He cannot
understand what ye say in English, for
he has only the Gaelic!”
McKinnon took a sly look towards
Kennedy.
“Another thing,” he added stooping to
undo the chain from Skelpie’s collar,
“Scots dogs aren’t worked by words. It’s
no manner o’ use to shout ‘Come away
k. a< ;k •, . ol ' . e ,t around ’em and then
kick then bieschee that s Scots for back-
,hey aon ’ 1 u "d« s * and ye :
Wha< y ?,, d ° 15 ‘°„ ca r ry a b,t sll f k and
point with it. Call those dogs o yours
back and j']| show ye.”
Lock waited unti , , he d were
de inted with his stick hissed
“Alla oossaI” to his new dog. The bitch
d;u [ ed away ; obedient to waves of the
sti C k she took the wethers to the far
end of the paddock, held them there,
and brought them back, working wide
and gently. When McKinnon dropped
his stick and whistled the bitch left the
sheep and came to his feet,
“Shouldn’t be surprised if I won a
trial or two wi’ my bonny skitherafeltie
G ’ a dog, now,” Locky remarked as he
snipped the chain on her collar. “Well,
I mus t be going. Some men say ye’re
hard, Jock Kennedy, but after your
generous act wi’ me aboot Skelpie here,
I’ll maintain that y’re the very soul o’
generosity. Good-day t’ye.”
A Slickly-told Mystery Yarn:—
BY MAVIS NEWTON
FOR thirty years Simon Frencham had
been dad’s man of business, and
when he died and young Simon
stepped into his shoes dad let the firm
carry on for him.
Dad was one of those pure souls to
whom all living relatives of their dear,
dead friends are pure, while I saw
Simon the younger as a fleshy, rather
bald, too-friendly man of forty-five.
And I hated his eyes.
Under his influence, daddy made a
new will, leaving all his bits and pieces
to me. Vere, according to Simon, being
married, was duly and adequately pro-
vided for. Whereas I
I didn’t know anything about it till
dad was too ill to be argued with. And
1 could always send Vere her share.
What Simon didn’t tell dad was that
he meant to ask me to marry him.
Daddy hadn’t been dead a month when
Simon asked me, and he had the nerve
to use those same unctuous words: “Now
that you’re alone and unprotected”
A month later he married Agatha Wil-
liams. I don’t know why she married
him. He, I know, married the late some-
body or other Williams’s legatee, and —
even lawyers are caught sometimes —for-
got to ascertain what happened to the
legacy if Agatha remarried. The results
of the union were bitter disappointment
for Simon, its recoil for Agatha, and a
real windfall for a couple of Williams
nephews who had expected aunt-by-
marriage Agatha to go on living in single
blessedness till the final amen.
I hated Simon, but I trusted his busi-
ness instincts. He sold out dad’s invest-
ments, which brought me in a steady
£25 a month, and bought things that gave
me £35. And I was grateful—too
grateful.
I was especially
grateful just then
because poor old
Vere, as usual,
was looking into
an exp e n sive
future. Ted had a
big slice of virgin
Western Australia, and was trying, with
Vere’s help, to make wheat grow where
nothing but wildflowers grew before.
Vere’s help consisted of adoring him and
presenting him with a new child every
year.
My month’s cheque was due the day
I got Vere’s letter telling me that her
future had become present, prema-
turely . . . And could I let her have a
few pounds as a loan—till Ted
So I went to see Simon.
I didn’t ask for my cheque. I didn’t
say a word for ten minutes. I didn’t get
a chance. Simon did all the talking. I
don’t know now just what it was he told
me. For this month there would be no
income. But he was confident
“Simon, I want my money!” I said
desperately.
“Let me lend you some.” He un-
locked his safe, an inner drawer . . .
snapped a rubber band that held a
bundle of notes . . .
“You realise that it’s as your friend
and not your lawyer that I lend you
this?”
“What’s the difference?”
“There’s no interest, my dear young
lady. Except perhaps your increased
regard.”
I wanted to get out . . . away from
him.
“I’ll let you know to-morrow,” I said,
pushed back my chair and almost ran.
At the doorway I bumped into Agatha.
A queer look slid over Simon’s face.
“Hullo!” he said.
“I want to talk to you, Simon. It’s
important, or I wouldn’t have come.”
“Well, you can wait,” he said, and
came to the street door with me and
bowed, and smiled with the mask still
over his face.


A new generalion of farmers
■sMf
m
<m
Wmm&.
wmM-
i'-W- '•
mai a\e
\tT-~J‘
- ?«
s*_
ip-
Ike FUTURE)
Growing up on farms
and stations in all parts of
the State are boys who later
will become the mainstay
of the State’s prosperity.
Rapid changes are taking
place around them: new
farming methods and
machinery are being
evolved: markets, too, are
changing. But these lads
are resourceful . . . and
adaptable. Already they
are planning for the day
when they will own a
property “ their own.”
No finer evidence of this
can be found than in the
continued success of the
Junior Farmer Movement.
The Rural Bank, too, is
adapting itself to changing
times . • . looking forward
to helping the farmers of
the future just as it is
helping their parents at the
present time.
Meantime the Bank ap-
preciates the support of the
general public in the useful
work it is doing and wel-
comes further business.
Interest-bearing Fixed De-
posits can be made and
cheque accounts opened
at all branches.
l lke IpST'
RURAL
BANR oKSW
‘SERVING THE STATE
Commissioners ; C. R. McKERIHAN President, H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS.
THAT was the day of Richard Poole’s
* party.
Richard lives at Greenlaw, about eight
miles from Harlow township. I went out
to it with Rosalie Field at about seven-
thirty. Rosalie is beautiful. She’s not
very young . . . years older than me.
Thirty almost, and rather big. She has
long, golden-brown hair that has never
been cut. There’s a heavy coil of it at
the nape of her neck, and her eyes are
almost exactly the same cairngorm color.
When she and her widowed mother
came to Harlow about a year ago,
she and Richard fell for each other
immediately.
Richard had planned a small party :
Rosalie and myself, and Simon and
Agatha Frencham. I’m sure Richard
and his mother would rather not have
asked those two. Simon had been asked
always with his father. There wasn’t a
soul in Harlow who didn’t love Simon,
senior, and leaving out his son deliber-
ately seemed disloyal to his memory.
However, there they were, still in (he
hall when we arrived. They and Richard.
1 saw at once that something unusual
had happened. Richard was different,
on the defensive, somehow. I’ve known
him ever since 1 was a youngster, and
I’d never seen that look in his eyes
before. They were such clean eyes some-
how.
Then a girl I had never seen before
ran down the stairs, and everyone, in-
cluding Richard, turned to look at her.
And 1 saw Richard’s eyes.
She was short, rather, and light and
slight. A scarlet flower was perched on
the shoulder of her black frock, her hair
was black and her lips were scarlet, and
she was the most alive thing I had ever
seen.
“Tell me, Dixie, am I nice?”
She twirled on her toes in front of
Richard. He dropped a steadying hand
on her bare shoulder.
“Marvellous! Stand still long enough
to meet people. This is my cousin, Jill
Hammond”
“Miss Field, Miss Hammond.” Rosa-
lie was regarding her gravely, listening.
Then Aunt Helen —I’ve always called
Richard’s mother that —took Rosalie and
me to drop our coats, and Mrs. Frencham
came, too.
When we got back to the big old-
fashioned drawing-room, Jill was the
apex of a human triangle.
“I do just little bits of things,” she was
saying, “impressions, sketches, verse. I
sell enough to —exist, barely. You can
see I’m thin” ——
Then she laughed, and showed per-
fect teeth. “But let’s talk about some-
thing interesting!”
Aunt Helen laughed. “Who wants to
play bridge?”
“Do you?” said Richard to Jill Ham-
mond.
“God, no! I’ve got no mathematical
sense. But you play, all of you, I’ll
watch.”
There was a pause, that Rosalie broke.
“Isn’t there something we could do that
we could all join in?”
Jill clapped her hands. She could,
and get away with it. “Of course! The
murder game. I’ll explain.”
SHE stood in the centre of the room, a
slim little bit of a thing, most extra-
ordinarily alive, and twirled to face first
one and then another. She used her
hands to emphasise her points, and her
fluff of thick hair danced about her face.
“First, there’s a detective. You, Dixie.
You, soon, go and shut yourself up
somewhere. Then we, all of us, pull bits
of paper, and on one there’s a cross.
Whoever gets that has to commit murder.
Murder somebody, anybody.
“We turn out the lights and drift
around. And in the dark the mur-
derer waits his chance. The victim dies
easily, of course. Then someone dis-
covers a corpse and the lights go on.
“The detective has to find out who
did it. He questions everybody, and
everybody has to tell the exact truth,
except the murderer. He can tell all
the lies he can get away with.
“All clear? Any questions?”
Aunt Helen looked worried, and did
her gallant best to hide it,
Agatha Frencham needed a number
of things explained; games aren’t her
strong point. Jill went close to her, and
stood, ticking off elucidated points on
nthin expressive fingers. Then, a slight
thing enough, Agatha Frencham crossed
her left leg over her right. The bottle-
green satin defined the limb’s outline.
The movement caught Jill’s restless
eye ; a slight irregularity in that green
outline, just above the knee, held it.
Her finger touched the little raised bit.
“What’s that?” she said curiously, like
a child might.
Agatha flushed, and her feet came to-
gether primly.
"A handkerchief,” she said. “What
would you suspect?”
“I’d suspect it of being two ten-pound
notes,” said Jill and laughed, and forgot
Agatha apparently in swinging everybody
into the boisterous eeriness of her game.
LIGHTS were all out. Even the fires
were partly screened. Figures moved
in almost darkness. Only when you were
practically touching could you be sure
who if was near you. Outside that
radius figures passed . . , slowly . . .
quickly. There was laughter, jesting,
little squeals of fear.
“Hurry up with that murder. I’m get-
ting all spooky!” It was Agatha’s voice
in the next room. I knew her titter.
Not long and there was a scream,
loud, obviously a fake. Somebody found
the lights. Agatha lay on the floor and
simpered.
“I don’t know why they picked me,”
she said.
“A crime of passion obviously,” said
Jill Hammond tensely, and Agatha red-
dened with scandalised delight.
Richard was called, and the corpse was
allowed to sit up and rearrange her bottle-
green skirts.
She ran her white hand over the rather
lovely satin once and again and stood
up hurriedly.
“I’ll be back in a minute,” she said.
Richard’s questioning covered her
exit. He swung a long arm at Jill Ham-
mond.
“Where were you when you heard
the scream?” he said.
Then Agatha came back running, sob-
bing.
“I’ve been robbed,” she said. “Robbed!
My twenty pounds!”
We must have looked rather ridiculous.
I saw several open mouths. Then
Richard went up to her: “My dear Mrs.
Frencham”
She turned to him a thin, overwrought
face: “You saw the lump in my stock-
ing. All of you! It was two ten-pound
notes. And it’s gone!”
She lifted the bottle-green satin to show
us the moneyless condition of her sfock-
ing-top. She turned to Richard:
“Mr. Poole, I’ve been robbed in your
house. It was my money, my very own.
Find it for me. You must.”
Richard’s good-looking face was white.
“But we’re all your friends here. You
know us all. Who would rob you?”
“Whoever murdered me did it.”
“Have you any idea who that was?”
“No. They came from behind.”
“Was it a woman?”
“I thought so, but”—slowly her eyes
came to where Simon Frencham stood,
and I’ve never seen fear leap into any
eyes as it did into hers then. “But”—
her voice absolutely withered —“I’m not
sure”
Richard turned to Simon with a gasp
of relief.
“Ah, Frencham. Of course, you’re
here. What do you think about this?”
“I think,” he said in a clear, hard little
voice, “that the murder and robbery were
committed by the same person.”
“That doesn’t get us much further,
does it?” asked Richard.
“No? You notice that my wife is
very much alive!”
Rosalie voiced his meaning first: “You
mean she hasn’t been robbed?”
“I happen to know that M rs. Frencham
hadn't two ten-pound notes.”
AGATHA was the centre of a circle
now —a silent, waiting circle. She
backed away from the segment that was
Simon till her back was almost touching
Jill and me. Using us as a wall, I
fancied.
“I had that money.”
“Since when?” said Simon blandly.
“Since this afternoon.”
He frowned, and she rushed into
speech: “You remember I came to see
you. To ask you for money. I said I
must have some. You must remember,
Simon. I came to your office. You
opened the safe. I put that money in
my stocking”
Simon actually smiled, and his eyes
were more like a snake’s than anything
I’d ever seen. At least, what I imagine
a snake’s must be like. I’ve never seen
one close.
“I remember —everything. Fancy me
forgetting. Sit down, my dear.” He put
a chair, and Agatha sank into it, her eyes
unable to leave his, fascinated.
“What in the name of the seven merry
little devils?” said Jill very softly. Her
voice called me back from Simon’s office,
where there had been a safe open and
notes, and a woman who was told she
could wait.
We all had a feeling that one scene
was definitely over. Richard felt im-
pelled to take charge again.
“Then,” he said heavily, “I’ve got to
find that money, and I’m going to
’phone the police.”
Jill’s hand took hold of my arm and
gripped. She had no idea she was hurt-
ing, I could see.
“Don’t do that,” she said. “That’s
absurd. It must be here. Must be. Put
out the lights, and let the person put if
back. Whoever did it feels a fool, and
won't own up. Give them a chance,
Dixie.”
“It’s gone past the game stage,” said
Richard. “I’m going to ’phone Harlow,”
“Dixie, don’t!”
“Why?” his voice was brittle.
“Because—oh, because it makes it all
so desperately serious.”
Agatha sprang up swiftly.
“You!” she said, and strode over to
Jill. “You made up that game. You
found out where my money was. You
don’t want the police. You stole it. We
needn’t get the police. Will you let me
search you?”
“I will not,” said Jill calmly. “I won't
let your horrible hands touch me.”
SHE might have been a minx, prob-
ably was. But she had pluck. At
that moment I almost loved Jill Ham-
mond. 1 tried to tell her that, and other
things, with my eyes.
“Let me search you,” I said,
“Not even you,” said Jill.
“My dear, don’t be an ass. It’s the
only thing to do. Will you all”—I turned
to the others —“be satisfied if I search
Miss Hammond?”
“Quite!” said Richard and Rosalie
together.
“Come on, Jill,” I said.
“You can go to the devil,” said Jill
Hammond. “The whole hospitable,
charitable crew of you! You would
find two ten-pound notes, but they’re my
own. I keep mine just where she did.
That’s how I knew. I’ve had them there
for a year. Something between me and
the devil.”
Agatha held out a long hand, curved
up like a basin.
“Give them to me. Give me my
notes!”
“They’re mine! Dixie, you believe
me, don’t you?”
She looked at his face ; we all did.
o Continued on page 58.)


Proved its worth —in hundreds of
THOUSANDS OF TROUBLE-FREE MILES!
W»Oy
m^M
mg.
‘A 1931 Model White
bus has completed o
distance of 176,000
miles during the past
four years, in that time
the valves mere ground
twice, one set of stan-
dard rings, oversize not
being necessary, were
used”—-says MR . R. J •
DOUCHTY, Proprietor,
Banhstown-Lakemba Bus
Service.
sd
“Federal No. I A-6 has
done over 350,000 miles,
and in that time has only
twice been rehored. The
original valves and main
bearings are still in the
engine and the bus is still
on the road every day”—
says G. H. MAY, Brighton-
Melbourne Bus Service.
Experience, on the road, has
proved to these motor owners that
Texaco Motor Oil definitely cuts down
wasteful tie-up periods, saves money
in repair bills and ensures longer en-
gine life and greater efficiency.
Remember this proof next time you
need Motor Oil.
zm.
“As you know, we operate 19
trucks, a number of which
have done a mileage of over
1110,000 on Texaco Motor
Oils. Our operating costs arc
highly satisfactory, and we
have had no mechanical
troubles which could be due
to lubrication’’—says CECIL
F. BERRY, Henry Berry and
Co. Ply. Ltd., Melbourne.
TEXACO MOT O R
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Cover”: The British businessman is
not so slow as some profess to think.
One London insurance company has
fitted rip a motor-lorry as a travelling
office plying on the main roads out of
London. At this a motorist can take
out every form of life and accident in-
surance, to say nothing of cover for the
special ills to which cars are liable.
* « * *
Among the King’s Birthday titles was
a K.B. for F. H. Flamilton, chairman of
S. African, Canadian and Australian min-
ing ventures and a former chairman and
now director of Wiluna (W.A.). He
edited the Johannesburg “Star.” J. H.
Curie was mining editor of the “Star”
when Hamilton sat in the chair.
*** ■ *
London’s “Cronk News,” which made
such an'exhibition of itself during the
Abyssinian business, has discovered that
“Liberalism” is at bay in the wildcat civil
war raging in Spain—“ ‘Liberalism’ now
defends ’ itself against the Fascist chal-'
lenge.” Why must this rag be selected
as a medium for informing Australians
when there are so many better papers on
which the cablegrammers could draw?
* * * *
Smashing assault on milk control by
an old-style co-operationist:
in three years it has become a costly
bureaucracy, existing by tolls levied on the
milk industry. Tt neither produces nor dis-
tributes milk. It is another middleman’s
cost on the industry. It has encouraged
farmers to produce more milk, but, owing
to the policy of raising prices to working-
class consumers, it prevents the people
from purchasing these increased supplies.
In Sydney? No, in England, though
every word is applicable to the operations
of the Lang-Stevens Milk Board. What-
ever the geography, milk boards seem
very much alike.
* * * *
“Falconer”: The London taximan has
a keen eye for the visitor from
the Dominions. A Maorilander of my
acquaintance was asked by a Cockney
driver how he liked the English
winter. “How did you know I was from
overseas?” asked the fare. “Dunno,”
was the vague reply. “Just something
about y’. You’ll be from Orstralia or
New Zealand.” “How can you tell?” per-
sisted the other. “Well,” said the Cockney,
“you’re not from India or South Africa —
your skin’s sort of different. And y’
don’t talk like a Canadian or an
American.”
‘*❖ * , *
. Aileen Alpen, who lives in Cracow,
Poland, has just returned to Sydney.
Cracow is very old and mellow, and its
people have quite taken the Australian —
she is correspondent for three of her
country’s newspapers—to their hearts.
When she goes back to Poland she will
carry with her some Australian' clay to
add to the mound being raised as a
memorial to Pilsudski, Poland’s late
President; a little of the soil of every
nation has been mingled in it. When
completed it will, be green-turfed and its
sides slopingly terraced. Around it will
stretch grassy lawns and flowering
borders. It is the Australian’s hope to
take back with her some of her country’s
native flora to enrich the memorial sur-
roundings.
* * * *
“Kataki”: Among Spanish towns
which have recently figured in the cables
as the scene of much slaughter is La
Linea, which, is strewn along the edge
of the neutral zone dividing Gibraltar
from Spain. It stands out in my memory
as the filthiest place I’ve ever seen. It
is the port of entry for Seville, and
handy to Algeciras, which boasts a
casino. It has a bull-ring of course—a
decrepit-looking structure of unpainted
palings and rickety seats—and stages
alleged bullfights for tourists. These
“fights” strike most visitors as nothing
more than the coldblooded, inexpert
slaughter - of harmless-looking cattle. On
one occasion a crowd of bluejackets from
a British man-o’-war lying in ■ Gib. were
so disgusted at the show that they invaded
the arena and took charge of proceed-
ings. The toreador and his satellites
were sunk with a few hearty kicks wheie
they were likely to do most good, after
which the matelots led the wretched-
looking bulls outside and turned them
loose.,
* *
“Gilah”: The reference to serenading
in Hungary (B. 29/7/’36) brought back
happy memories, but the operation is
never performed with the guitar, that
instrument being unknown there. The
Hungarian national instruments are the
violin and the cymbal, and the serenading
usually commences with the consumption
of large quantities of wine in the village
inn to the accompaniment of airs played
by a gipsy band. When sufficient grape-
juice has: been absorbed, the crowd,
gipsy band included, repairs to the house
of the beloved. On the occasion when
I was present at the ceremony, the bass
and the cymbal had to be left behind,
being too heavy, but .the two violins and
the ’cfello were in fine form. But they
seemed so far from being appreciated
that the musical performance came to an
abrupt termination with the girl’s father
and his dogs chasing the serenaders up
the street. I came away with The idea
that, even‘ in Hungary, romance is on
its last legs.
Answers to Correspondents
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.G.P.: “Payment expected,” eh? You might
have added “if published” R.C.: That apple
isn’t even fit for cider M.K.B.: Close up,
but it doesn’t quite hit the inner this time
J.D.: The climax needs more snap...
But the wheat isn’t up yet. Try again
in the merry springtime. The other piece is
better, but it failed to ring the bell... .P.J.I.:
Homely—in more senses than one.... A.S.A.:
“Doors”-“saws”—it’s like a pencil squeaking
on a slate.... Bellerive: A new vein: —
ARCHER, RACEHORSE OF THE ’SIXTIES.
Among- racehorses of yore
Of the finest breed,
Archer of the ’sixties
Was a brilliant steed.
Old-timers comment on
The wonderful horse
Who won tlie Cup twice
On Flemington course.
In the old-fashioned days.
When rough was the track,
He won with over ten
Stone on he’s back.
C.F.-: Like that snappy style, but the sub-
ject matter isn’t up to scratch R.M.L’E.:
You stretch the long bow to snapping-point
with that whole string of burglars.... Sti: Re-
veals sound knowledge of human nature, but
it doesn’t say enough....C.K.: The action
drags, and the character of the authoress isn’t
etched sharply enough....B.A.: You show
keen observation, but we 'can’t fit it in
Uplift: Muddled humor... .V.C.: ‘ “Riley’s
Romance” too melodramatic; other held for
further consideration E.K.P.: Only that life-
histories of animals are a drug on the literary
market kept it out... .Eureka: Nothipg in it.
. D.S.: Just an incident E.T.: That plot
track has been scratched by too many nibs —
D. : What is it all about, anyway? R.R.:
Would have made a good melodramatic radio
play if it had been written before Marconi
was born C.G.D.: “Sedi’s Mood Indigo” is
as muddled as the title... .I.L.J.: Whoever
told you that a string of puns was humor?
... .M.F.: By no means confine your efforts to
horticulture; your style is good. Liked the
longer yarn best, but it is rather exotic. Try
again... .D.E.: Not quite strong enough —
E. : Too slender W.D.: “The Miracle”
.would need one to get it through... .E.A.F.:
Not impressive... .L.S.L.: Not suitable
G.M.: “Reality” still unconvincing —
E.G.A.: That sort of thing needs careful
handling; you’re not up to it yet. Keep
trying... .C.H.: “Sponsored Session” will need
'to look somewhere else for a haven... .C.K.:
Don’t, like it.. ..F.V.A.: That type of yarn’s
only worth about 300 words... .G.E.M.: Not
so good; and we’re a little tired of that vein.
.. ..R.B.F.: We found “The Duel” unexciting.
. ...C.H.S.: No... .I.M.M.: It’s been done
too often... .M.S.: Now get a plot worth
writing about C.S.: ‘“.Micky” seems to
have strayed from “Every Boy’s Book of
Animals”... .G.M.B.: “If you send Sam back
I’ll cremate him.” Anyway, he’s had a good
long trip first J.N.: Our esteemed journal
is glad to see the back of “The Beyond”
V.W.: Crime reporter and murderer nicknamed
“La Guillotine.” No-o-o-o!... .L.G.H.:
“Phineas, old friend —forgive me if you can.”
Never... .R.H.L.: “Hair” isn’t strong enough.
... .M.D.-F.: No shelter for “The Man in
the Street”... .M.I.P.: The professional humor-
ist raised a grin, but that was all....L.L.:
No cheque in that... .R.W.: Two men quarrel;
one goes shooting rabbits and the other is
found dead with a wound in his forehead.
Even after that we could get long odds against
No. 1 being a murderer L.T.W.: And all
that happened in Little Bourke! Well, well!
H.B.: Just failed to make the grade; keep
at it....B.M.E. (aged 17): “The ants carry
the dead' moth to their lair.” Not here they
don’t.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.A.C.: Slight signs of progress, but they
are still far too wooden... .R.B.S.: No space
for those golfers to swing a club A.S.M.:
Dog-lovers wouldn’t appreciate those four-
footed atrocities... .E.S.: Scratchy... .W.W.S.:
All require polishing... .A.E.: Caricature in-
differently done, and subject hardly important
enough H.C.L.: The double-ended christen-
ing gag was long ago classed among the
ancients.., .S.T.: Would hate to think how it
would reproduce... .M.S.: Pencil work too
faint; try black-and-white... .G.H.R.: Surely
Mrs. Newlywed would have learned long before
not to put her husband’s clothes out of the
porthole J.E.S.: Still missing G.L.:
Carefully drawn, but idea hackneyed... .J.D.:
Crude J.W.: Yes, keep on, but not that
way C.B.P.: Shapeless and uninteresting.
... .A.F.G.: Your sundowners are still hoofing
it N.S.L.: Slick, but of no use to us...
G.C.: Fruitless daubs.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Plenty Hurdle: Brilliant Son;
next, Martext.
Melrose Steeplechase: Wakerife ;
next, Xmas Gift.
Glenara Handicap: Gay Circle ;
next, Dusky Native.
Argyle Welter: Palatinate ; next,
Mutable.
Kiata Handicap: Young Idea;
next, Heros.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Kogarah Stakes: Tuckiar ; next,
Sheila March.
Flying Welter: Goorka; next.
Fireman.
Moorefield Handicap: Dulcedo ;
next, Verberry or Imbiber.
Rockdale Mile: Pavarti; next,
Toriwa.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Santa Casa gave such an astoundingly
poor display in the Australian Steeple-
chase at Caulfield that Regan, his rider,
suspected doping. J. P. Devine, the
owner-trainer, reported this to the stipen-
diary stewards, under whose directions
swabs of saliva were taken from the geld-
ing.
After his Grand National victory Santa
Casa bucked all the way home from the
course. On Saturday he was spiritless at
the end of the journey. Regan
bore out the opinion of every onlooker
that the son of David did not jump any
one of the 29 obstacles in his accustomed
style. He made several serious blunders.
Once the reins were dragged from
Regan’s hands. If the jockey had not
been an experienced show-ring rider he
must have been tossed from the saddle.
Ante-post bookmakers had heavy com-
mitments over the Australian Hurdle and
Steeple double. The cramped odds of
16 to 1 were taken about Pooley Bridge
and Santa Casa, following up their Grand
National successes. When “Pooley” so
nobly performed his part of the contract
it was merely natural that Santa Casa
should come to almost a prohibitive
quotation in the Steeple. When the field
lined up he figured at 6 to 4, and even on
those terms ringmen did not write his
name with the best of grace.
At Geelong on July 15 Wakerife (Sea
Prince —Eveille) started favorite for a
Brush Steeple, but in a journey of “about
two miles” he finished eight lengths be-
hind Maid of Farndon, who lost to Val-
star by four lengths. Subsequently he
was runner-up to Xmas Gift in the
Steeplechasers’ Flat at Caulfield and in
the Jumpers’ Flat at Geelong. These
credentials were unimposing, and 14 to 1
could be had When the tapes lifted on
Saturday. Never farther back than fourth,
Wakerife shot past Actaeon and El
Damaroyal half a mile from home and
won by 20 lengths from the former in
the amazing time of 7min. which
bettered Fulham’s 1935 record by 6|sec.
Character, 10 lengths behind Actaeon,
wrested third position from El Dama-
royal, whose physical exhaustion was
most apparent. Wakerife paid £4 18s.
for each ss. in the s.o. tote pool.
Strobus was the only horse to fall.
Eastern Chief and Xmas Gift did not
finish the course, having been pulled up
by their riders. The former, like Cold
Spring and Strobus, was having his first
outing over fences ; Xmas Gift is a little
fellow, and not yet seasoned enough for
a marathon journey.
Fred Doran, the owner-trainer of
Xmas Gift, contemplated running him in
the Knowsley Steeple, rather than the big
race. The “Knowsley” would have been
no soft thing for Xmas Gift; it is prob-
lematical whether he could have ac-
counted for Elegance (Gay Lothario —
Robe d’Or). This promising recruit to
the crosscountry ranks left Sea Mawes
and Conde as if they were anchored at
the straight entrance, and scored by a
dozen lengths. Three days before Ele-
gance sustained quite as pronounced a
drubbing from Soranus —another out-
sider-over the Moonee Valley fences.
He is trained by Archie Ling, who was
associated with the stable of P. T. Hey-
wood for three decades and assisted in
the Melbourne Cup preparation of Artil-
leryman.
Dick Bradfield annexed the Arkaringa
Hurdle fof -H. N. Leonard with Martext,
a son of Silvius, the sire of Sylvandale.
In years gone by Bradfield was part-
owner of Regret, the best two-mile
hurdler on the Australian turf in his day.
Martext (11 to 2) led from end to end
and reached the judge two lengths in
advance of King’s Warden, who pipped
Loyola oh'the post for second. The
5 to 4 favorite. Brilliant Son, was in one
of his sour moods, and did not even gain
a place in a field of seven; despite weak
opposition. Bert Leonard, who owns
Martext, won the Grand National
Hurdle of 1931 with Cockcrow. His
father, the late William Leonard, raced
many famous gallopers, including Fish-
wife. . ,
Lou Robertson, who was so much in
evidence last spring with Marabou (Mel-
bourne Cup), Feldspar (Victoria Derby),
Garrio (Williamstown Cup) and others,
has promising new blood in his Mordial-
loc team. With Peerage (Chivalrous —
Miss Yarrien) he won the Chatsworth
Plate. It was by a mere half-head that
the colt disposed of Dame Chatter
(Windbag—Bahlaka), and the weights
favored him to the extent of 151 b. But
Peerage put in such a long-sustained run
and finished with such bulldog courage
that he will have to be reckoned with
over a distance and might give cheek in
the next Melbourne Cup. Dame Chatter
is raced by A. G. Hunter, who bred the
filly, and may take the Oaks with her. '
Gay Friar often gives trouble at the
post, and the starter cannot be blamed
for this gelding getting away badly in
the Balaclava Stakes. But if he h,ad not
so suffered Gay Friar should have won,
instead of being third to Dusky Native
and Amonic after an exciting finish. At
9 to 2 the winner was next in demand
to Highardo (7 to 2), whose fifth left a
good deal to be desired.
Not a single first favorite caught the
judge’s eye. Wakerife and Elegance (15
to 1) dealt deadly mischief to punters ;
but the ringmen had their best turn-up
over the concluding event, the St. Aubin
Welter, in which 20 to 1 went begging
about the first and second horses.
Mutable and Arroba. Tote return on
Mutable was more than 32 to 1. He
belongs to W. J. Smart and was bred by
“S. A. Rawdon,” for whom Smart won
numerous valuable races (including the
Newmarket Handicap on Blague) when he
held a jockey’s license. Smart’s appren-
tice son squeezed Mutable home by half
a head from Arroba, with the heavily-
backed Palatinate a similar distance
farther away. It might be wise to fol-
low Palatinate.
# Jfc * *
After the Flying Handicap at Rosehill,
Windbird was “specked” for the Epsom,
in which he has Bst. The little son of
Magpie caused a surprise by winning the
Flying Handicap on the Parramatta
course at twelves. He beat Kaylah and
Pavarti comfortably after having been
closer than usual in the early stages.
Half-way down the straight Kaylah
looked to have the race in her keeping,
but Davidson did not let Windbird go
until the last furlong. Fair Diana, hav-
ing her first gallop in public after a
short spell, came very fast in the straight
to run fourth. Moaenza disappointed,
but Egmont, last into the straight, was
not far behind Windbird at the end. He
will soon make his opponents gallop.
A very profitable double for the book-
makers was completed by Imbiber (10
to 1) in the Rosehill Handicap. This
son of Tippler, raced on lease by A. J.
H. Gray, should have won at Victoria
Park, where he was kept too far out of
his ground. At Rosehill, Findlay had
him near the leaders, and, getting a nice
run on the rails, just held off Speldon and
Rustler, who lugged in and boxed up
the field over the last furlong. Collstar
was a close fourth. Grand Warbler and
Dulcedo had bad runs in the .straight;
the Queensland horse was checked several
times, and McCarten eased him up to-
wards the finish. Grand Warbler led
for home, but when looking a certain
placegetter was squeezed back.
Talking now looms up as a worthy
opponent for Gold Rod in the Derby.
He is by Magpie—Society (a Maoriland
mare); his two-year-old form was good,
and there was no fluke about his win in
the Wentworthville Stakes, for which he
was backed from fours to 5 to 2. The
Magpie colt’s brilliancy had Ganegrass
in trouble a long way from home. The
old horse made a valiant attempt to run
the leader down at the Leger, but it was
no good. Loud Applause was third ; he
looks greatly improved by his winter
spell. Bobby and Clarion lost their
chances at the start, moving off in a
snail-like fashion. Talking was bred by
Percy Miller and sold to the Parramatta
sportsman S. Cash for 120 guineas. Cash
got a cheap horse.
Mala (9 to 4) had a rough passage in
the Three-year-old. When he got out
of the ruck the race was all over. His
fifth will keep him in the limelight, but
it is suspected that he is not nearly as
good as was thought. Water Waggon (14
to 1) led throughout, and at the finish just
held off Bull Ant (12 to 1), who is a
really good colt. The Blizzard surprised
by running a close third. He recently
won a maiden event at Kembla. Cool
Joy was fourth. Otto was badly placed
most of the way.
Sir Caledon (4 to 1) lasted long enough
to beat Hands Up in the first division
of the Maiden. Royal Promise was third
and Lasting fourth. Lasting, who has
been backed for the Melbourne Cup (the
backer alone knows why), started
favorite. Moorefield-trained Sheila
March (5 to 2) was much too good for
her opponents in the second division.
Slow away, she was in difficulties more
than once, but when Stan Jones took
her away from the rails in the straight
she bounded to the front, winning with
her head on her chest. Woolbrook, a
Marconigram colt, was second and
Naterra third. Woolbrook showed oace.
Backers were well on the mark in
both divisions of the Parramatta Mile.
For the first, King Gee, who has 7st. 31b.
in the Epsom, was turned out in excellent
trim by owner-trainer D. W. Gazzard,
of Pennant Hills. Backed from fours
to twos, he cleared out at the Leger
and won very easily from Lavage and
Verberry. Atucas was fourth after be-
ing sent to the outside of the field at the
start. An early winner at his distance.
The second division was won just as
easily by Rogerio (7 to 2). Musk Deer
made the pace, but Rogerio went past
him in a stride or two. Toriwa was third.
* * * *
Nobody can say that W. Cook, the
Sydney jockey, hasn’t led a full life
lately. He has ridden so many winners
and been so rushed with offers of
engagements that the young man
announced that he would not now
return to India, as he had intended.
Then at Kensington on Wednesday, the
stewards carpeted him for his riding of
a mare called Brown Betty in a division
of the Flying Welter. Backed early at
3 to 1, Brown Betty drifted into the
market till she was weak at 9 to 2. In
the race she lost ground at the start, but
worked into a good position on the out-
side, and with a final effort got third.
First was Wise Boy, winner of the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate 1934, but a failure in
the meantime; a sudden commission
brought his price from tens to fives.
Brown Betty explanations were accepted.
o Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Under the rules that obtained before
behinds counted, the Victorians would
have been beaten by South Aus. in the
centenary game at Adelaide. As it was
they won 13-27 to 15-13, a goal and a
behind in the last two minutes giving
them a two-point win. As the scores in-
dicated, the Victorian kicking was poor.
S.A., playing most of the time with vir-
tually 17 men —Mattiske, the goalkeeper,
injured an ankle and was of little use—
was somewhat unlucky to lose. „ Atten-
dance was 24,000-odd ; the “gate” £1213.
* * * *
Melbourne is out of the V.F.L. “four.”
Beaten the week previously by Fitzroy,
Melbourne, still weak but nearer full
strength than against ’Roy, went down
to Geelong on Saturday, 14-16 to 15-15.
A win over Hawthorn, 11-17 to 8-16, puts
Carlton level with Melbourne so far as
competition points are concerned, but
the Carlton percentage is a good deal
better, and Melbourne will find it hard
to get back into “the four” again.
Collingwood, with a couple of men in
Adelaide, Coventry suspended and others
injured, had some difficulty in holding its
top position opposed to Fitzroy. ’Roy
again played well: ’Wood, 13-12 to 11-8.
“Sowth,” still losing points because of
inaccurate kicking for goal—Saturday’s
kicking was worse than the previous
week’s, only 12 out of 33 scoring shots
raising both flags—hangs on to its second
placing, though Footscray gave it a stiff
tussle: 12-21 to 11-15.
Richmond, still third, is having a lean
time. Beaten in previous weeks by Mel-
bourne and ’Wood, and with two of their
best men away with the State team, the
Tigers on Saturday were stalked by
North Melbourne, second-last on the list.
Richmond had 20 scoring shots to 18 by
North, but went down 9-11 to 11-7. St.
Kilda, not good enough to beat the
topnotchers, but better than any below
it in the list, easily accounted for Essen-
don, 16-23 to 14-14.
* * * *
Western Suburbs, a few weeks ago
equal with Randwick for Sydney’s Rugby
Union premiership, slipped into fourth
place after Drummoyne had done with
it. Gilleland, at full-back, caught the
ball better and ran and kicked with more
judgment than M.L. tourist Storey did
for West; and centres Rankin and
O’Gorman were a more elusive pair
than the West men,, though McLaughlin,
having failed to pass the medical exam-
ination for the M.L. trip, put up a show-
ing that got him back among the tourists.
Forward Drummoyne had far more vim.
The Reds scored three tries; in all, 19
points to West’s 5. Randwick accounted
for Parramatta 21-11; it is on top, with
Drummoyne second and University third.
Nicholas again won a match for the
Students —this time against Manly. Each
team scored two tries, Nicholas one of
’Varsity’s, and he added a goal and
three penalties, 14 points out of 17.
Manly managed 14 only. The Villagers
are seventh. Eastern Suburbs, fifth now,
still looks like making “the four.”
Against Gordon it put on six tries to
one and finished 28-8. North under-
rated St. George. Gibbons, Arnold and
five other regulars were out of the team.
Saints grasped the opportunity, rucked
hard and hustled the Northern backs, to
win 19-14, three tries to one.
* * * *
The Maorilanders, beaten in the
scrums, nevertheless managed to keep
the Englishmen out and lead 2-nil at
half-time in the first of the Rugby League
representative matches at Auckland.
Afterwards Edwards and Jenkins, who
between them did most of the scoring
in the Australian Tests, added tries for
England, and Hodgson booted a couple
of goals to make it 10. M.L. got to eight,
all goals ; it was unable to finish off good
movements with tries.
(Continued on next page.)
At the end of the week Australia’s only
Olympic Games placing was Metcalfe’s
third in the hop-step-and-jump. Among
the swimmers the Westralian girl Evelyn
de Lacey was second to the world’s-
record holder, Willi den Ouden, of
Holland, in a heat of the 100 metres ;
and Kendall, third in a heat of the men’s
100 metres, did 59 9-10 sec only
Australian ever to break the minute.
Both were outed in the semi-finals.
Johnston, who took Gray’s place in the
1000-metres cycling time trial, didn’t
show out at all. The Japanese won all
the heats of the 100-metres freestyle
swimming event, but the final went to
Csik, of Hungary, in 57.65ec., almost a
second outside the record. An 11-year-
old Danish girl, Inga Soerensen, won a
heat of the 200-metres backstroke, and
in another heat Miss Maehata (Japan)
cut Clare Dennis’s record to 3min,
1 8-10 sec.
* * * *
The M.C.C. selectors of the team for
Australia have filled it by adding Fames
(Essex), Barnett (Gloucestershire),
Holmes (Surrey), Sims (Middlesex) and
Voce (Notts) to those previously chosen.
This makes 16 ; a second wicketkeeper
is still a possibility. Fames is a genuinely
fast bowler. Voce goes in as a result
of newspaper pressure, though it failed
‘in the case of Larwood. Wyatt and Sut-
cliffe are apparently regarded as past
their best as internationals. The greatest
surprise among the omissions is that of
Gimblett.
* * * *
A. L. Andrew retires from the secre-
taryship of S.A. Tennis Association,
which he has held for 13 years, latterly
as a full-time job, with residence at the
courts near the Adelaide Oval. He has
organised the visits of English, French
and American teams, has built up the
big annual country “carnival,” and has
seen the association reserves grow from
£2OOO to £lO,OOO.


SUPER RAPID ’
Ball-bearing
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
Centrifugal Pumps supply a greater
amount of water than any other pump
of the same pipe size.
Where a large volume of water at no
great pressure is
required,
“Super Rapid”
is the pump for
the job.
Fitted
with
S.K.F.
Ball
Bearings.
es
e _ r Rapid Pumps are made in two types: Low Lift for a head of 50 feet,
and High Lift for a head of 100 feet.
The following list shows the capacity of some of the popular sizes;—
Size of Gallons
Piping. per Hour.
2 800
1 1350
1J 2000
lh 3300
2 5730
3 9750
Ask for our illustrated
catalogue.
It contains full particulars of
these and other pumps.
Centrifugal Pumps can be supplied direct-coupled to electric motor or oil
engine.
c
Proprietary Limited
5.1 Bathurst St.,
Sydney.
546 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
116 Waymouth St.,
Adelaide.
532
Murray St.,
Perth.
Under the Whip
Prices for bloodstock are going up.
At the sale of the Arthur-Quinlan
horses in Melbourne Mitsui (Eastern
Monarch —Charlecote) fetched 1650
guineas, Avenger (Constant Son —Chat-
terbox) 800 guineas, Conandale (The Buz-
zard—Bambina) 675 guineas, Night of
Love (Rampion—Nuit) 500 guineas and
Britebeard (Heroic —Grey tinge) 450
guineas. Though at present under a
metropolitan racing ban (it applies to
Melbourne only) for misbehavior at the
barrier, Britebeard—a stallion just turned
four —is a recent winner and looks a
bargain at the price, especially as regu-
lation of racing is not so strict in other
cities as it is in Melbourne. Night of
Love was bought by J. E. Pike. Pike’s
name did not figure on the list of Rand-
wick trainers published at the beginning
of the new season, but he can apply for
a license at any time.
Si! * * *
All going well, the crack Maoriland
pacer Indianapolis is to race at Adelaide
in January, when there will be centenary
meetings. Indianapolis has paced a mile
in 2min. 1 2-ssec. No utility ’orse has
ever broken 2min. in M.L. or Australia,
but then neither country has tracks quite
as fast as the best American.
* si: * *
F. D. Jones, who introduced Limerick
to Australia, is back in Sydney with a
good team. Heading it is Gustos, by
Lord Warden —Matata, reckoned the best
two-year-old in Maoriland last season.
He won five races, three under w.f.a.
conditions, and it is believed that he will
stay ; if he does he will test Gold Rod,
of whose stamina not a few judges have
doubts. The Wanganella brought Jones’s
lot and also Silver Ring, Sporting Blood,
Silver Streak, a good winner in M.L.,
and Kinnoull, a fancy for spring events
since his success in the Canterbury Cup.
* * * *
Early favorites for the big spring handi-
caps are Pamelus and Hadrian (Epsom),
Egmont and Kinnoull (Metropolitan),
Valiant Chief and Cuddle (Caulfield
Cup), Gold Rod and Silver Ring (Mel-
bourne Cup). A two-Cups double backed
last week was The Wizard and Buzzard
King. Names of four-year-olds are
prominent on the bookmakers’ charts for
all races.
* * * *
“Poppy”: Lost tote-tickets? In my
youthful days I was enamored, at a dis-
tance, of a visiting actor, and was thrilled
beyond words to hear one day at Rand-
wick that my ideal was on the course.
Despite close watching I failed to behold
him until after the last race. Then the
gentleman, slightly inebriated, and crawl-
ing round in the vicinity of the tote on
all fours, burst on my horrified gaze.
The explanation was that in his muddled
condition he had torn up and cast away
a ticket on which a dividend of £7 was
due, and was making a praiseworthy
effort to locate the pieces. I never
learned whether he managed it.
“P.0.M.C.”: “I suppose the technick
of jockeys changes, same as everything
else,” said Bill the Battler; “but longish
races ain’t won by stayers like they wos
when Myles Connell an’ Alby Wood
wos ridin’. They useter come from
be’ind. Now you find the ’oop on the
dinkum stayer ‘goin’ fer the doctor,’ only
to git pipped on the post by some ’airy
goat which ’as bin pushed inter the
box seat, I’ve gotta snifter system fer
pickin’ the winners of ’andicaps now —
I goes fer the one wot looks the least
“Stand by, listeners! Cauliflower Joe has consented to croon his theme-
song, ‘Go to Sleep, My Baby"
hkely on paper, an ome it rolls. You
ought t’ ’op in fer yer cut before the
mob wakes up.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Although there are not more than a
few hundred wrestlers in Australia, three
(3) were sent to the Olympic Games.
They all failed. A protest was mooted
after Garrard, the lightweight, had been
declared the loser of his first bout —with
an Italian, Romagnoli, Actually none was
lodged, which was just as well, because
in his second appearance Garrard was
bowled over by Karpafi,'a Hungarian,
in a couple of minutes. Exit Garrard.
Karpati won the final.
In the light-heavyweight division,
Scarf won his first bout, but the
second was awarded to a Czech oppo-
nent, one Prokop. Here H. G. Alderson
entered a protest on the ground that
Prokop, who had somehow been dis-
abled. had been allowed smin. 40sec.
to recover, the 40 seconds, in Mr. Alder-
son’s opinion, being superfluous. The
protest was withdrawn, officials having
“indicated that there was little chance of
its being upheld.” Then Scarf was out-
pointed by a German, Sieberg, who ulti-
mately finished third. Fridell, a Swede,
being first. O'Hara, the welterweight,
lasted till the third heat; then he was
beaten by Anderson, a Swede, who ulti-
mately came second ; Lewis (U.S.A.) was
the winner.
“Jachris”: Commenting on the defeat
of our wrestlers, Les Duff and J. S. W.
Eve, managers of previous Olympic
teams, declare that on their return they
suggested the alteration of local wrestling
rules to bring them in line with. Olympic
conditidns, particularly the counting of
the roll, in which both shoulders touch
the mat together for an instant, as a fall.
Their suggestions were ignored. Charac-
teristic !
sfc $ * *
Victoria has a good lightweight in
George Lowe. In a 12-rounder at Leich-
hardt on Wednesday, Jarvis, the M.L.
champion, was of no use to him—could
neither hit Lowe nor get away from his
punches. None of the punches was
severe, but sufficient of them landed to
ensure success for Lowe long before the
referee had to give a decision.
* * . ■ *. *
“Tuart”; In one of his stories “O.
Henry” has a reference “to the patheti-
cally fistless Latin races.” He was no
stranger to pugs—in another yarn he
mentions one of the Fitzsimmons-Maher
fights, though attributing to the vic-
torious Anglo-Australian a sentence he
certainly never used, “I know what I
done to dat stiff”—and he wrote some
years before the advent of the Latin in
pugilism ; all the same in this particular
he was singularly unobservant. Latins
have swarmed into the game these last
20 years, and often their heavyweights
have towered over the Anglo-Saxons,
Camera is a mountain of a man and
Firpo was nearly as big. That “fist-
less” Latin knocked Dempsey out of the
ring, and Dempsey would have lost the
championship if he had not been helped
back. Argentina sent a heavyweight
as big as Firpo to the Olympic Games.
Photographers got him lifting one of the
Australian boxers on the outstretched
palm of a hamlike hand.
At the Olympic Games
The U.S.A. has some wonderful negro
athletes. Largely because of their
prowess that country early put up a big
lead in the Olympic points score at
Berlin. Jesse Owens followed up his
success in the 100 metres —he won the
final as easily as he had won his heats,
equalling Tolan’s world’s record, 10.3 sec.
—with victories in the broad jump (his
26ft. 5 l-3in, was an Olympic record)
and the 200 metres in 2Q.7sec., better
than Tolan’s Olympic record. Wood-
ruff, another black, took the 800 metres
for the U.S.A. Australia’s Backhouse
was first in his heat and second in a
semi-final, but was outclassed in the final.
Still another American negro, Johnston,
won the high jump, his leap of 6ft. Sin.
beating the previous Olympic record by
2in. ; and two others—Towns, 14 l-10sec..
a world record, for 110 metres hurdles,
and Williams, 400 metres in 46 5-losec.
—won their events.
The showing of the Australians demon-
strated the futility of sending athletes
unless their performances approach
world figures. Backhouse, an ankle now
troubling him, finished last in his heat
of the 1500 metres. Watson, the hurdler,
didn't qualify for either the 400 metres
(Hardin won for America) or the 110
metres. Metcalfe wasn’t in the hunt for
the high jump, and he and Dickenson
withdrew from the broad jump. In the
hop-step-and-jump Metcalfe was third
(with 50ft. 9.1 in.) to the Japanese Tajima
(52ft. s|in.) and Harada (51ft. 3.4 in.);
Dickenson qualified for the semi-finals
but was then eliminated. Woodhouse,
suffering from a leg injury, had to give
his one event, the pole vault, a miss.
A sterling performance was that of the
Maorilander J. E. Lovelock. In winning
the 1500 metres he cut a second off the
world’s record, reducing it to 3rain.
47 4-ssec. Cunningham (U.S.A.), who
was second, also improved on the old
record; he was beaten decisively by a
lad whom Grantland Rice, the American
sporting writer (seen here in “talkie
shorts”) pronounces “the greatest runner
of all time” at his distance.
Cycling, Duncan Gray reached the
quarter-finals in the 1000 metres sprint—
his success at Los Angeles was the time
trial, for which he wasn’t entered this
time—and was then eliminated by a
Hollander.
The Germans were prominent in the
strong-man stuff. Hein won the 161 b.
hammer throw with an Olympic record
throw, 185 ft. 3 3-sin., and another Ger-
man, who also beat the record, was
second. The German Woellke’s 52ft.
Hin. shot putt also bettered the record.
Throwing the discus, an American won
the event for men (Carpenter ; his 165 ft.
7iin. was an Olympic record), but a
German girl captured the women’s title.
* * * *
Ins and Outs
Bradman is to play in the Gregory-
Bardsley testimonial match. That will
add at least the best part of a thousand
to the receipts. The most profitable testi-
monial match on Australian record is
Charlie Macartney’s in 1927 ; it yielded
“the Governor-General” about £3600.
There was no Bradman in the business
then; on the other hand, cricket had a
greater appeal in those days than now.
:|s * * *
“8.H.5.”: Broken Hill cricketers are
laying down a turf wicket, with the hope
of getting first-class matches there. The
soil is being brought from Orange, 50
tons being required for three pitches. A
disused paddock with large reservoirs on
it—it formerly belonged to the B.H.P.—
has been obtained and fenced, and volun-
tary labor is doing the carting and exca-
vating. The reservoirs hold several mil-
lions of gallons of wafer, which will be
free to the playing organisation, and the
mining companies are expected to help
in erection of buildings. The lie of the
land, which is right in the town, is so
favorable naturally that there is little
trouble in grading. The only hindrance
is the rooted objection of young Broken
Hill athletes to give a hand without get-
ting “award wages.” Cricketers of the last
generation are doing pretty well all the
bullocking as well as the promotion and
the management of the scheme.
Footbrawl
“Jamwood”: As one who played the
Australian game of football in boyhood,
it pained me to read accounts of the
Collingwood-Richmond match. This
from the “Age,” for example:
It was evident that there was very hot
blood and bitter feeling between a forward
and a defender. The crowd was amazed
to see one rush at the other and aim a
furious punch. In a flash there was a wild,
disgraceful mix-up. Three players raced
from either side. The umpire supported
the fighting players and indicated that re-
ports would follow; this did not stop the
roughhouse tactics. One player, flushed
with anger, argued with the umpire, and
the umpire turned him about and had a
look at his number.
That is the root of the whole trouble —
the impotence of the umpire to deal
immediately with a wild man in a guern-
sey. In Rugby a player who argues with
the ref. goes off the field immediately.
His services are lost to the club for the
rest of the game. There is far more
close work in Rugby—either form —than
in the Australian game, but on the whole
it is played—and watched —in a better
spirit. It is largely because the referee
has adequate power, and, if he is any


1
'V U^^yyV\j\,
I
It was the strength of the
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Joint
that made a really practicable
proposition of the machine-made
fence—with its double advantages, the
safe enclosing of stock of all sizes down
to lambs and piglets, and the elimination
of the troublesome wooden dropper which
rots, breaks, and shifts on the wires.
The longer a well-strained “Cyclone”
fence remains up the greater becomes its
superiority over any plain wire fence
erected at the same time.
The unique advantage of the Ring-Lock
joint covers another point. Tightly
though the Ring-Lock clamps the
upright wires in position, its swivel
action lets the fence follow any rise or
dip of the land without buckling or
breaking.
Before you replace or patch any stretch of
fence, check up the low cost of “Cyclone.”
Made of HARD steel wire. Guaranteed
from end to end.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
THE GRACE BUILDING, YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd.
“Cyclone” is not a type of fence but is our registered trademark
and can only be legally applied to fences manufactured by us.
THE MOST
PRACTICAL
THING THAT
EVER
HAPPENED
IN FENCING
“ Cyclone” products are obtain-
able from your local distributor.
For fully illustrated catalogue of
all types of “Cyclone” fencing
and other products write to the
“ Cyclone” Company. The catal-
ogue is sent free and post free.
RINGLOCK
FENCE
e
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of "Cyclone” Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
B. 12/8/'36.
sort of a referee, exercises it when neces-
sary. Give the man with the whistle
equal power in the Australian game
and there would be little rough and foul
play. There would also be better
umpiring.
“Y. Kik”: Collingwood’s champion
forward Gordon Coventry, who began
the season with a record of having kicked
more goals (1177) than any other V.F.L.
man, and who is lying fourth on this
season’s list of point-scorers (60 goals)
will have no further chance of adding to
his total till next year. Reported for
fighting in the Collingwood-Richmond
game, he was disqualified for eight
matches. Collingwood has never been
so shaken to its foundations since the
first raid on the old shilling tote. Mur-
doch (Richmqnd), the other party to the
fight, was outed for four weeks.
“Yonker”: The Universities that sent
a Rugby Union team to Japan are con-
sidering the matter of a return visit. The
South Africans are due to look in on
their way to M.L. next season, and
Gordon Shaw, the manager of the Aus-
tralian team to visit Maoriland shortly,
has been empowered to press there for
three Tests in Australia. In 1938 the All-
Blacks are to tour N. S. Wales and
Queensland. The Japanese students —
very promising players, by all accounts —
may be asked to come in 1939.
* * * *
“Brickard”: As a rule Rugby League
forwards don’t last as long in Australia
as in England. It is not that our lads
are less tough than the English, but that
the grounds are much harder. After a
few years of being dumped on “turf”
that may for weeks together be as un-
yielding as cement—dried Bulli, for in-
stance —and having their faces rubbed
along the same, they tend to yearn for
a quieter life. An exception is Steinohrt,
the Toowoomba forward. Steinohrt has
been playing ever since the war, and was
in big football for a decade. Recently he
led Toowoomba to a victory over
Ipswich, gaining again for the Downs-
men the Bulimba Cup. The iron man
was carried shoulder-high off the field by
Madsen, himself a veteran, and Baker.
The Nineteenth Hole
“R’core”: On his way back from the
U.S.A. Jim Ferrier was asked at Auck-
land whether he was disappointed at not
winning the final of the British amateur.
“Disappointed?” was the reply. “Good
heavens, I was astonished in getting that
far.” Good luck to him for saying that!
Here’s one lad whose head hasn’t been
turned by success.
H*
“Christomar” : A couple of youngsters,
Joan Lewis and H. L. Williams, are to
give Sarazen and Helen Hicks their first
match in Victoria, on September 17 at
the Victoria course, the Americans tak-
ing the whole of the brass. Sarazen’s £5O-
--side match against the Queenslander
Von Nida is down for Royal Queens-
land on August 29. Between times the
visitors will take engagements where the
money is sufficient.
* * * 'i*
“Nobbier”: No longer can the Terri-
tory be regarded as falling somewhat
below the level of civilisation in temperate
climes. The last barrier to its acceptance
as fit to rank with the most enlightened
quarters of the globe was broken when a
golfer, James Reay, became the first
player in the Territory to hole in one.
It happened at the fifth hole on the
Darwin links. Report says “Reay and
partner thought the ball was lost till they
looked in the hole.” Leave it at that.
Miscellaneous
“D.E.”: I agree with the man who
wrote that gate-money cricket is one of
the dying industries (B. 5/8/’36). Its
doom was pronounced when fast bowl-
ing on the leg side was banned to save
the skins of flatfooted batsmen who
couldn’t get out of the way. For years
prior to the introduction of that sort of
bowling the bat was steadily beating the
ball. “Bodyline,” so-called, corrected this
cardinal weakness ; now there is nothing
to prevent the bat gaining complete
ascendancy. When that point is reached,
it is good-bye to cricket as we have
known it. It will remain a capital social
pastime, like tennis, but nothing more.
What will take its place? I predict base-
ball. “A Yankee game,” certainly, but a
manly and interesting one, and one in
which time matters —in gate-money
cricket it doesn’t. Despite many handi-
caps, the chief of which is dearth of
enclosed grounds, baseball is making
steady headway in Australia, and this
movement will continue.
‘Jachris ’: N.S.W., Vic. and South Aus.
have been staging a baseball tourney in
Sydney, and out of it has developed the
suggestion for an Australian Council to
control the game. It may also be neces-
sary to control “rooters,” who go to the
baseball en masse fortified with mega-
P h °” e f a " d huge cardboard signs calcu-
lat«d encourage the team they fancy
“ha fSt .dSfcST'St JSS
f ntes for the Claxton Shield-,he trophy
(“ISd »n Sr Lfc
he ' d “ Adelaide, and an inttr-State
schoolboys’ competition, N.S.W., Vic. and
S.A. starting in Sydney next season, was
agreed to -
South Australians are quite adept at
the American game, and don’t have to
import stars like Bradman. Their repre-
senfatives beat N.S.W. 5-3, after the
Welshmen had accounted for Victoria
3-1 i a °d in b es f B ai })s ser * es
S.A. beat Vic. 1 -nil. The result was
reversed a couple ot days later—a 4-. i
win for Victoria; then S.A. beat N.S.W.
again, 4-1, and it keeps the Claxton
Shield. Standard ol play by each ot the
States was good, the fielding excellent,
* * * *
“Mari-ja”: A couple of days after the
commencement of the Games the Inter-
i a+uw;,. Acc nr> «nt nut a list of
national Athletic Assoc, put J
new world S records, most Ot wmcn were
broken the same week-—Metcalfe had
one for the hop-step-and-jump, and Jesse
Owens three. A couple of them should
last longer. A Hungary Kovac had
even time, 30sec., for 3UU yards re g
nised, and Fanelli (Italy), goes down as
bn vim* done 20 miles in 2hr. 6rnin.
navmg done zu nines
10 4-6 sec. ...
' * . * . .
“S.G.”: It is no use arguing against
the advent of women in field sports after
the achievement of the American Miss
Stephens at Berlin. In her heat of the
oiepncus di ucii . f
100 metres she cut two-tlttns or a seco
off the world’s record for a woman,
11 4 ssec The semi-final she won in
1 Usee Many a young fellow who fan-
ii 2 sec. many ay b O „ llo]
cies himself as a pe . c
those performances, incidentally, tne
Sydney girl whose omission from the
Olympic team was challenged by Church,
Parliament and Press holds the Austra-
lian record for the distance, but it is a
m6re 13sec. However, the damsel is
better at hurdling than
* *, „„„.
From a man who wants to buy a gun
In aiming at the U.S.A. in that section of
its hast™ improvised May tariff, the Govern-
ment hit Australian sportsmen. American arms
manufacturers have for years supplied almost
the whole of the world market for high-class
sporting rifles. In Australia of recent years
90 p.c. of the .22-calibre rifles sold have been
American. Only the Americans produce .25-20,
>32 -20, .38 or .44 cal. guns. And they are
constantly making improvements and altera-
tions. . ..
Take Wmctetens-five changes m small-
the position
j s same Cartridges for the .220 Switt,
the .22 Hornet and the .270 Winchester are
made only in America, and there are many of
these rjfles Australia Certain i y gun firms
are permitted to import American ammunition
up to 25 p.c. of last year’s total, but it is not
near jy enough, and the guns themselves cannot
be replaced if damaged,
As with car-purchasers, gun-buyers want new
models if they can get them. One of the
largest Birmingham dealers features m his cata-
logue only two sporting rifles of other than
American makes: a single-shot (with no safety
catch) and a repeater. British manufacturers
are not going to produce special models for the
Australian market; it is not big enough.
Another point is that young men in the back
coun t r y g e t all their training in the use of
firearms from sporting guns ; but perhaps that
is immaterial.
* * * *
“Jibboom”: T. O. M. Sopwith has got
London Royal Yacht Squadron to
send in another challenge for the
America’s Cup on behalf of his
Endeavour n the
races to take place in
. . >.
July next year. There is talk of fitting
the Endeavour out with a steel mast and
Qt h er moc jern gadgets, and employing a
B B
professional crew.


INTEREST-BEARING
U/l ' #
Interest bearing deposits for amounts of £5 and upwards,
lodged for periods of three, six, twelve or twenty-four months
are accepted by all branches of the Bank of New South Wales
in Australia.
Interest can be withdrawn half-yearly on twelve and twenty-
four month deposits. If the depositor has a cheque account
at any branch of the Bank, the interest on the deposit will be
regularly credited to this account if so desired.
Interest rates are as fallows: —
3 % per annum for 24 months
2f% „ „ „ 12 months
2 \°/o „ „ „ 6 months
2 °/ 0 „ „ „ 3 months
THE LATEST HOME PURCHASING SCHEME
A modern method of buying your home and all the possessive
happiness that goes with it has been evolved by
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
Its modern home purchase policy makes immediate purchase or home
building possible, and at the same time affords a degree of protection
which is unique in home purchase finance.
Arrangements can be
made to find for you
70
of the purchase price
of an approved
property.
For a small amount of money you can now build a home for your
own use and reap the benefit' of the low cost of housing ruling at
the moment. You may build either in brick or wood, and payments
may be spread over a long term of years
For full particulars apply to —
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
Principal Office.
316 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branch Offices in
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide. Perth, Hobart, Launceston, and in the Principal Cities of
New Zealand, Great Britain and South Africa.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
City Mutual Life.— This society de-
clares bonuses on whole-life policies at
rates ranging from £2 17s. 6d. p.c. on
contracts five years in force to £4 ss. p.c.
on those 40 years or more in existence.
The probability of even better distribu-
tions later on is encouraging.
The office, like the National Mutual,
has no Industrial branch. It has concen-
trated on the type of assurance most
economical to the assurer. It endeavors
to avoid anything in the shape of frills
or fanciful embellishments about its
policy contracts, but to give the best
value possible in plain, straightforward
whole-life and endowment policies and
annuities.
The City Mutual especially encourages
young men to assure. And life assurance
in a good office is one of the things in
this world where a young man may make
a better bargain than an older one.
Income from property investments was
a big scoring-point for this office during
the boom. In the slump the outlook
changed somewhat, and returns dropped ;
but the pendulum is now swinging the
other way. The City Mutual changed
its basis of expected interest earnings
from p.c. to p.c. recently. The
actual return on funds, after allowing for
taxes, was a shade under £4 12s. p.c. last
term, as against £4 10s. a year pre-
viously. The 1935 margin for bonuses
was 275. p.c. —highly favorable.
Exes, took 11.7 p.c. of last year’s total
income, compared with 10.7 p.c. and
14.9 p.c. in the two preceding years.
A change is taking place in the distri-
bution of the society’s investments:
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £1,590,179 20.3 £1,782,721 21.4
Mortgages' .. 3,293,750 42.0 2,995,216 36.0
Loans on policies 1,125,806 14.4 1,153,931 13.8
Properties.. .. 883,267 11.3 1,297,721 15.6
S h a r e s and
debentures, etc. 497,093 6.3 621,469 7.5
Cash and sundries 449,525 5.7 476,894 5.7
Large new head-office premises are near-
ing completion in Sydney. The building
is attractively modern, and in a good
position.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The T. and G. —This is a very pro-
gressive office, with a large Industrial
branch. Its Ordinary department is at
present making a lot of headway. Funds,
now around £23,000,000, are almost
equally divided between the two depart-
ments.
The office assumes that its funds will
turn in 3 p.c. After deducting taxes,
the return on mean funds last year was
£4 10s. 9d. p.c., showing a surplus of 30s.
p.c. over the rate assumed.
Excluding taxes, exes, took 17.2 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums in the Ordi-
nary department last year. Good work
is being done in this regard, and if it
can be carried much further policy-
holders will see substantial benefit in
bonus results.
And, talking of bonuses, here are the
society’s results compared over several
years:
1930. 3 932. 1934. 193 V..
Net surplus—
Ordinary . . £398,612 £393,592 £418,552 £437,176
Industrial .. 190,059 286,548 301,519 317,199
Total .. £588,671 £680,140 £720,071 £754,375
The outlook indicates increases shortly.
There was a slight drop in the rates in
1931, but no cut afterwards. Interest
returns are improving, and taxation isn’t
quite so bad as it was.
The expansion in income illustrates
the growth of the business in recent
years. The claims experience has been
highly satisfactory.
The funds were invested as follows on
the last two balance days:
Public 1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
securities ..£13,247,821 62.8 £15,116,452 65.2
Loans. . .. 5,308.427 25.2 5,686.9)59 24.5
Freeholds .. 1,932,545 9.2 1,960,999 8.5
Cash, book debts,
etc 593,664 2.8 405,940 1.8
The high proportion in Government
stock (usually returning less than 4 p.c.)
and the £4 10s. 9d. p.c. actually netted
by the society last term suggest that
policy-holders’ cover is valued on the
low side in the accounts. Internal
strength of this kind will make it easier
to make a lowering in the basis of in-
terest-expectation at some future date if
the management so desires.
4* 4* 4* 4
Colonial Mutual Life. —In its last
term this society had a greatly improved
year. Income in all departments was a
record. In the Industrial as well as the
Ordinary department, the basis of anti-
cipated interest earnings is now 3 p.c.,
bringing the society into line, on this
point, with the larger mutual offices. The
new actuarial basis was made possible
partly by the creation of reserves follow-
ing revaluation of some of the assets —
the new values, the board says, “from
every aspect may be deemed perfectly
safe.”
Interest is one of this society’s princi-
pal sources of bonuses. Last term a
shade over 4 p.c. was netted in the
0.D., as against 4.1 and 4 p.c. in the two
preceding years. By virtue of the new
basis of valuation, the margin of surplus
was 1 p.c., as against half of 1 p.c. in
1933.
O.D. claims last year were actually
lower than in 1934, mainly because fewer
holders cashed in on their policies before
they were due. Favorable mortality ex-
perience is another source of bonuses.
Expenses, on the high side in the past,
were cut down to 22.8 p.c. of the O.D,
net premiums last term, as against 25.1
p.c. and 24 p.c. in the two preceding
terms. The improvement here is en-
couraging in view of the larger new busi-
ness written.
The surplus available for distribution
in the Ordinary department was a record,
and up £77,561. In the I.D. the amount
was also favorable; the 1934 figure was
swollen by assets revaluation:
G ross
surplus— 1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Ordinary . . £442,427 £328,179 £484,401 £561.902
Industrial.. 100,184 89,521 212,921 117,391
Accident .. 16,822 21,367 90,772 90,021
*Total . . £559,433 £439,007 £788,094 £775,974
In the O.D. £547,103 is to be distributed
among policy-holders by way of increased
bonuses, and £114,736 in the I.D. at
1934 rates. The O.D. distribution was
equal to 26 p.c. of the year’s increased
net premiums, as against 26.5 p.c. in 1934.
Policy - holders can see nearly
£18,000,000 of protection. The funds are
in this form:
Public securities 1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
and debentures. . £8,844,479 52.2 £9,135.779 49.9
Mortgages .. . . 3,327,151 19.6 4,395,786 24.0
Freeholds .. .. 2,111,042 12.5 2,169,801 11.9
Loans on policies.. 1,534,146 9.0 1,552,396 8.5
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 299,008 1.8 312,960 1.7
Cash and deposits. . 722,952 4.3 583,564 3.2
Other assets .. 102,147 .6 140,479 .8
I he society has been helping income by
giving more attention to mortgages and
house-purchase assurance lately.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Australian Metropolitan Life. —The
Metropolitan, a well-conducted semi-
mutual office, is attracting increased busi-
ness (up 10 p.c. last year) by reason of
its regular bonuses. Funds total about
£1,500,000, and there is £50,000 of share-
capital as well; the lot was invested as
follows seven months ago;
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. ..£259,259 18.3 £259,745 17.1
Govt, securities . . 688,150 48.5 770,571 50.8
Shares other cos. 21,302 1.5 22,047 1.4
Mortgages.. .. 283,476 19.9 281,649 18.6
Loans on policies. . 99,199 7.0 101,384 6.7
Book debts .. 42,863 3.0 45,247 3.0
Cash .. ' .. 25,685 1.8 37,632 2.4
Assets are an attractive lot. Despite the
large holding of Government stocks
(which by virtue of their security are
usually bought to give a low return), the
interest yield on funds is good.
The co. assumes that its Ordinary de-
partment funds will earn 3 p.c. p.c.
in the Industrial). Actually, last year’s
net return on average funds was 4.2 p.c.
in the Ordinary and 4.6 p.c. in the Indus-
trial, showing profit-margins of 245. p.c.
and 225. p.c. respectively.
In the O.D. exes, took 20 p.c. of the
Ordinary premiums last year, a substan-
tial improvement. It promises well for
future bonuses. Recent actuarial sur-
pluses have been as follows:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 .'. £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934 .. 28,543 19,747 48,290
In the O.D. recently rates on whole-life
and endowment assurances ranged from
30s. to 40s. p.c.
4* 4* 4*
Australasian Catholic. —One of the
younger successful life offices, this co.
has a fine record. It began in 1921, and
paid bonuses out of profits within 10
years. Paid capital was £14,610 to begin
with; assurance funds are now over
£BOO,OOO, invested to give one of the
highest interest returns (a shade under 5
p.c. in 1934-35) among Australian life
offices, and showing a margin of approxi-
mately 30s. p.c. over the assumed rate o!;
earning (34 p.c.).
The co. doesn’t issue separate O.D.
and I.D. figures, except when the actuary
makes his quinquennial investigation.
Last rate of whole-life bonus was
525. 6d. p.c. in the O.D. and 255. p.c. in
the Industrial.
Exes, averaged 36 p.c. of the year's
premiums in 1934-35, as against 37.9 p.c.
in the preceding year. Considering that
the greater part of the business on the
books is Industrial, these figures are very
encouraging. Claims experience has been
favorable, and the general trend of the
figures sound.
Investments take the following shape ;
1934. 1935.
Freeholds .. .. £105,024 £200,488
Mortgages .. .. 291 ,780 309,891
Govt, securities . . 122,855 131,408
Gash, etc. . . .. 10,540 13,500
Debtors . . . . 1.422 2,008
Loans on policies . . 23,834 31,042
Equipment . . 4,711 4,008
Shares in other cos. 3,313 3,388
Attractive new head-office premises, now
well let, have been put up on the corner
of King and York streets, Sydney. A
•similar building, most of the vacant space
in which has already been taken, is going
up in Queen-street, Melbourne. The
business is spread throughout the Com-
monwealth.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Prudential. — This British office
has been actively writing business in Aus-
tralia for several years now ; it combines
life assurance with all varieties of insur-
ance. Its life funds totalled £279,000,000
at Dec. 31 last. For the term to that date
£6,480,650 was distributed in bonuses to
Ordinary and Industrial policy-holders.
In the O.D. bonuses were at rate of
465. p.c. (on the original sum assured)
in respect of participating whole-life poli-
cies, and 40s. p.c. on endowments.
The Prudential’s assets now exceed
£300,000,000 sterling. They are mainly
represented by British Government
securities and debentures and shares.
4* 4- 4- 4*
Equitable Probate and General. —
This is an amalgamation of the Equitable
Life Association of Queensland and the
Queensland Probate Insurance Co. More
economical handling of the business has
been the immediate result. Exes, last
year were a shade over 38 p.c. of the
premium income, and the net interest
return was a little under 3.3 p.c. on the
mean life fund, deducting license fees
and taxes. The position calls for still
further improvement, which appears to
be forthcoming.
Last year there was a larger surplus
added to funds—4o p.c. of the gross
revenue was put by, as against an
average of around 22 p.c. hitherto (in the
case of the two old cos.). Renewal
premiums show that 88 p.c. of business
on the books last year has stuck, which
is encouraging.
The life fund stands at £299,624.
Whether this is the precise measure of
the co.’s policy liabilities isn’t known.
The co. has £128,831 in Government
securities, £11,884 in cash, £65,103 in
mortgage and policy loans, etc., £57,955
in freeholds, £10,555 in shares in other
cos., and £24,525 in other tangible assets.
The outlook for policy-holders is better
than for some time. The amalgamation
has been to the benefit of both cos.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Ldfe Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write lor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
sJSg
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
S¥TNEV
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
BRANDAUERrS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDA.HEE * CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Patent.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SHOE INSOLES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10596/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney,
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Victorian Companies Bill
A Companies Bill has had its second
reading in the Victorian Leg. Assembly ;
following fresh legislation in South
Aus, _ and N. S. Wales (the share-
hawking and prospectus provisions of
the latter become operative on August
17), it is part of a Commonwealth-wide
movement to protect not only investors
but the people in general where their
interests come into contact with com-
pany finance.
The Vic. bill is divided into five parts ;
Part I, which deals with trading cos.,
and Part 11, covering no-liability mining
cos., are the principal divisions. (
Schedules cover forms relating to pros-
pectus information and rules for mining
cos., among other things.
The recommendations of the late Judge
Leo Cussen, the findings of Justice Halse
Rogers in the McArthur inquiry, Vic-
toria’s own experience as regards abuses
of proprietary company law and recent
English developments have been con-
sidered in drafting the bill. There has
also been an effort to make the legisla-
tion comparatively uniform with that of
South Aus., N. S. Wales and Queensland.
New features affecting trading cos.
aim principally at
(a) Protecting investors from fraudu-
lent, reckless or negligent promoters or
directors.
( b ) Protecting share- and debenture-
holders (including holders of “bonds”).
(c) Recognition of the rights of share-
holders and simplification of winding up.
(d) Tightening up of law relating to
accounts, mortgages and charges, proprie-
tary and foreign cos., and receivers.
(e) Simplification of administration and
procedure.
Only one meeting will now be neces-
sary to pass a special resolution. P. and
I. statements will be compulsory in
annual accounts, and the right of share-
holders to annual accounts will be made
statutory. And there are provisions re-
garding accounts of subsidiary cos.
In the case of new cos., the minimum
subscription for allotment must be suffi-
cient to cover purchase price of the prop-
erty, preliminary exes., repayment of
moneys borrowed and working capital.
Underwriting commission is fixed at a
maximum of 10 p.c.
An anti-share-hawking clause prohibits
a canvasser going from “place to place”
selling shares. Information as to the
previous history of a business or land
deal is required to be furnished in every
prospectus, and no share-application
form must go out without a copy of this
document. Reports inserted in a pros-
pectus will have to be dated, and must
be accompanied by a qualification on
the point of whether they are specially-
prepared reports or not. Wilful omis-
sions from the prospectus will be pun-
ishable. Application moneys will be
held in trust until allotment, which must
take place within six months of the date
of the prospectus.
Another clause renders it necessary for
promoters of a proprietary to give notice
of intention to register—a provision
which may help to protect creditors of
a business on the verge of being turned
into a co. Proprietaries will be subject
to the same accounts regulations as
public cos.
In connection with mining cos., at
least 25 p.c. of the shares must be sub-
scribed for and 5 p.c. paid up before
registration will be allowed. If a mining
co. is wound up within a year of regis-
tration, cash-paid capital must be re-
turned before promoters’ shares come
into the picture.
The bill has been widely discussed, in
Parliament and elsewhere. Mr. Holl-
way made some enlightened and useful
suggestions on mining co. operations,
while Mr. Cain, in asserting that “the
investing public must be protected
against the unscrupulous company pro-
moter —the prohibition of hawking of
shares will not overcome the difficulty,”
came close to an opinion expressed here
more than once. But the bill in its
entirety does much more to protect in-
vestors than merely curbing share-
hawkers, and most of its new provisions
are long overdue. The passing of the
measure will be an achievement on
behalf of those who ask for sounder
company control.
Jack Hides’s gold-seeking expedition,
* sponsored by Investors, Ltd., to the Tau
Fauroro Valley, Papua, where a goldfield
“equal to the Bulolo” was said to exist,
has encountered official opposition. The
Papuan Legislative Council has closed
“ and don't keep bangin' that door or you'll bust the lock!"
the area to others than officials and
natives. Perhaps it’s all for the best.
Unless gold propositions have their merits
or otherwise quickly demonstrated, “Ex-
tended” and “North,” “South,” “East”
and “West” cos. often do in more cash
than the original show is likely to get out
of its claim. Besides, the place is in wild
country, and gold prospects in wild coun-
try sometimes result in loss of life and
great public expense. The day before the
Government’s decision was received from
Port Moresby, the £1 shares in Investors,
Ltd., were offered at 455. An appeal
is being made to the Common-
wealth Government on behalf of In-
vestors, Ltd.
* * * *
Australian overseas trade showed a
favorable balance of £22,521,000 sterling
for the year to June 30, about £500,000
less than the 11 months’ figure to May
31, Merchandise exports were up 19 p.c.
and imports 15 p.c. For June imports
exceeded total exports by £615,000. In
the same month of 1935 there was an
exports excess of £537,000.
The favorable balance was £6,400,000
sterling better than the figure for 1934-35.
While it just about covers our external
interest cheque, it does not provide for
invisible charges or withdrawals of in-
come and capital. There are some capi-
tal imports to be taken into the figures,
but these will not square the account. So
for the second successive year Australia’s
London funds will be tapped. The
amount of these funds —they include
most of the “gold and sterling” cover
for our note issue—is a close secret from
the public. From the satisfied smirks of
Federal politicians we are given to under-
stand that “everything will be all right—
just leave it to us.” But the Federal
Government’s record as trade managers
and financiers has been appalling.
* H= * *
At £52,000,000 Australian our wool
shipments in 1935-36 represented 38.8 p.c.
of total export values. Wheat (exclud-
ing flour) came second at £14,000,000
(10.4 p.c.), and gold third at £12,000,000
(9 p.c.). Butter ran a bad fourth at
£9,027,800 (7 p.c.). Gold, in price, was
lower than in the previous year ; wheat
and butter were up, though drought
affected the export volume of the latter.
Wheat went to over ss. a bushel at
eastern Australian ports last week. At
the 1935-36 season’s rate of production,
a year’s harvest would be worth
£35,000,000 to the country at ss. a
bushel. The price is an abnormal one,
being influenced by poor crops in the
U.S.A. But better returns to the Aus-
tralian grower seem assured for some
months at least. They will be welcome
to the nation as well as to the grower,
and may help to make up for the Gov-
ernment action which has brought about
depressed wool prices.
* * *
Victoria and South Aus. will benefit
most by the increased wheat prices evi-
dent since the beginning of 1936,
which had brought in an extra £2,400,000
to the end of June. N. S. Wales and
Westralia had lighter yields for the
season ; the Vic. harvest is estimated to
be up 12,000,000 bushels, and that of
South Aus. 5,000,000 bushels. Common-
wealth production, estimated at
143,000,000 bushels, is up 9,600,000
bushels. It was better yields per acre in
Vic. and South Aus. that did the trick.
* * * *
Those who tried to justify the anti-
Japanese tariff on a business basis —and
all its defenders have had a try —have
cut a sorry figure. One bit of nonsense
solemnly put forward by one authority
was to the effect that Britain, by creating
markets for our goods, had created extra
purchasing power in Australia, which
was being collared by Japanese exporters.
There are figures to show that Japan has
created about £16,000,000 of purchasing
power a year recently in this country,
and has left about £10,000,000 of it for
British, U.S.A. and other exporters. Japan
doubtless get's a little shipping revenue
from the Commonwealth, but we don’t
have to pay it £20,000,000 sterling a
year in interest.
* * * *
In spite of all concessions, quotas and
politicians’ skite, Australian beef exports
dropped from 212,000,0001 b. in 1934-35
to 196,000,0001 b. in 1935-36. Returns de-
clined from £2,547,342 Australian to
£2,481,396. Our cheque for mutton and
lamb showed a small drop at £4,465,000.
* * *
Premier Aberhart, of Alberta, put
250,000 $1 “prosperity certificates” into
circulation last week. They are taxable
at a cent a week (to make them too hot
to hold) and redeemable in two years.
Most of the issue will be used for road-
construction work. In some respects
they resemble Lang’s dole certificates,
especially in that shopkeepers don’t want
them.
* * * *
In B. 29/7/’36 it was indicated that
David Jones, Ltd., had bought a new
Sydney freehold. The deal was an-
nounced last week; what used to be
Weekes’s hotel and adjoining properties
on the corner of Market and Castlereagh
streets, diagonally opposite D.J.’s main
store, has been acquired at a cost of be-
tween £350,000 and £400,000. In antici-
pation of a new issue the co.’s ords.
ran up to 515., steadying at 48s. 9d. The
site is in a shopping centre of growing
importance.
* * * *
Speculative interest took the 12s. fully-
paid ord. shares in R. Fowler, Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne brick- and tile-
makers, to 15s. 9d. last week, as against
! 3s. 6d. in mid-July. There was a re-
action later to 15s. Ord. div. for the year
to Sept. 30, 1935, was 5.2 p.c. (earnings
were 9.3 p.c. on capital), and an interim
at rate of 6.2 p.c. for the current year
has been paid. The yield at 15s. is 5 p.c.
Earnings are largely at the mercy of
building activity, and a high return is
necessary to justify the risks run.
* * H* *
In Melbourne last week:
Luna Park, Ltd., showed profits of £4370
(up £1060), and paid 20 p.c. on ords. and prefs.
Equity Trustees declared a div. at the un-
changed rate of 12 p.c.
Central Nell Gwynne announced a crush-
ing of 200 tons for 91oz.—average 9dwt., as
against 4.9dwt. for previous milling.
There were a slight hardening in Consols and
a firmer market for industrial shares.
Dennys, Lascelles declared a div. of 4 p.c.,
compared with 2\ p.c. in the preceding year.
The announcement by G. J. Coles and Co.
of a profit of £154,851, up £23,407, didn’t do
much to stimulate the market for the scrip.
Up to 86s. a week or two ago, the ords. sold
around 82s. 6d. on Friday.
Yarra Falls shares sold at 405., yielding
5 p.c. The scrip is attractive at the price.
Gordon and Gotch ords. were better sup-
ported at 51s.
Holeproof, Beau Monde and Prestige ordi-
naries were all in keener demand. Last-named
co. gives a 6 p.c. return at the present market,
and is firmly established.
Mammoth (Tennant Creek) shares slackened
to 3s. 2d. on reports that crushing was de-
layed owing to trouble with the pumping of
water to the plant.
Wattle Gully (Chewton) announced that
the 20-head battery would be crushing by the
end of September.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“These Three”
The finest dramatic film this commen-
tator has seen this year. Ninety minutes
of first-class entertainment and a child
actress who can act.
When Karen Wright (Merle Oberon)
and Martha Dobie (Miriam Hopkins)
graduate from college they convert an
old home inherited by Karen into a girls’
school. They are assisted by young Dr.
Joe Cardin (Joel McCrea), resident at a
near-by hospital. Karen and Joe fall in
love. Martha also loves the young
medico, but conceals her affection. The
three are the best of pals.
Mrs. Tilford, the district’s social king-
pin, sends her granddaughter Mary
(Bonita Granville) to the school, and the
lesser lights immediately follow her lead.
With the advent of this vicious, lying,
brazen child trouble starts. It culminates
in Mary’s running home and pitching
scandalous tales about the two girls and
the doctor. Grandma believes them on
faked proof, and by the old lady’s in-
fluence the school is ruined. Karen,
Martha and Joe combine in a libel action
against her, but fail. Then the doctor
is asked to leave. Some of the insinua-
tions about Martha and Joe stick in
Karen’s mind, and she lets her doctor
depart for Vienna.
The girls do not quarrel. Martha tells
Karen that she loves Joe, but that there
has never been anything between them.
Then Martha leaves with her pestiferous
aunt (Catherine Doucet), a self-invited
tutor at the school, who had refused to
appear and give vital evidence for the
girls when needed. In the train the
voluble aunt discloses some important
things she’d seen, and Martha rushes
back. She breaks down the resistance of
Rosalie (Marcia Jones), a schoolgirl
whom Mary had blackmailed over a
stolen bangle. Follows the truth, and
a humiliated Mrs. Tilford agrees to a
public apology and the coughing up of
lull damages. Martha then sends word
to Karen to go to Joe, and fades out
of the picture. Karen and Joe are recon-
ciled.
Miriam Hopkins, Merle Oberon and
Joel McCrea all act with the restraint
and dignity demanded of their roles.
Marcia Jones gives good support to her
wilful schoolmate, and others in the cast
fit in satisfactorily. At Sydney State.
“I Give My Heart”
A well-staged version of. the operetta
“The Dubarry,” with Gitta Alpar, who
played the part in the original stage pro-
ductions in Berlin and Vienna, as Jeanne.
The Hungarian singer, who looks like
Du Maurier’s drawings of Trilby, but
who needs no Svengali, goes through the
not-very-well-digested mixture of opera
and period comedy with the hoydenish
vivacity traditionally associated with
king’s mistresses. Her excursions into
song are dragged in by the heels—she
sings her part 6f a love duet in a public
park with hundreds of people strolling
about; unwinds a solo when Dubarry
proposes ; trills her nightingale cadenza
in a love passage with Louis XV., and
marches up to the monarch at her first
Court reception carolling lustily. How-
ever, she’s there to sing, she is also a
very accomplished actress, and she is
soundly supported by a selected English
cast —Owen Nares (Louis), Margaret
Bannerman (the Marechale), Hugh Miller
(Due de Choiseul), Arthur Margetson
(Dubarry) and Patrick Waddington
(Rene) among them. At Sydney State.
“The King Steps Out”
When Grace Moore sings it doesn’t
much matter what she sings. The airs
provided for her by Fritz Kreisler in her
latest musicomedy fall into the category
of simple songs, but they are appropriate
and pleasing.
The , Emperor of Austria (Franchot
Tone) has had a wife picked out for him,
a daughter of a grand-ducal family. Un-
fortunately the lass’s affections have been
bestowed elsewhere. The grand duke
(Walter Connolly) is sympathetic, but
very much under the thumb of his am-
bitious wife, so it is left to his youngest
daughter Cissie (Grace Moore) to save
her sister. This she does by inducing
the young king to “step out” in her
company, and the result is a foregone
conclusion.
Gentle humor enlivens the proceedings,
the grand duke’s unaristocratic leanings
towards beer and wood-chopping provid-
ing many a chuckle. Casting is excellent.
Herman Bing as an innkeeper gives a
memorable characterisation, and his is
only one of many roles that contribute
to the success of one of the pleasantest
musical plays ever put on the screen.
At Sydney Regent.
“THESE THREE,” AT SYDNEY STATE.
Miriam Hopkins and Merle Oberon are shocked by Bonita Granville.
“Half Angel”
A hard-boiled reporter (Brian Dun-
levy), of the sort that never takes off
its hat, bullies policemen and District
Attorneys, forces entrance into private
dwellings on the slightest provocation
and solves crime mysteries in the twink-
ling of an eye, is the hero of this tangled
yarn. Proceedings open with a murder
trial and the acquittal ’ (owing to the
reporter’s efforts) of a beautiful young
goil (Frances Dee) on a charge of poison-
ing her pop. Subsequently she is taken
into the home of an eccentric scientist
(Henry Stephenson) and makes the
acquaintance of. scientist’s lunatic half-
brother. There are more poisonings, the
innocent goil is slung into a prison cell
once more and is once more rescued by
the newspaper man;, he pins the crime
on the most unlikely person in the cast
and telephones the story to his news-
paper while he is doing it. Charles But-
terworth as the reporter’s side-kick and
Sara Haden in her stock part as an
obnoxious maiden lady give the affair
some small flavor of humor. Also at
the Regent.
“Fatal Lady”
A series of mysterious murders com-
bined with first-class singing would seem
at first glance to be weird entertainment,
but the mixture has been made success-
fully in this film under the direction of
Edward Ludwig. The plot has symp-
toms of originality, and the ending is a
surprise. Not one filmgoer in a hun-
dred will pick the murderer.
A few hours before Marion Stuart
(Mary Ellis), a young operatic soprano,
is to make her New York debut, she is
questioned closely concerning the mys-
terious death of a man who has been
her admirer. She is cleared of com-
plicity, but the rebound of the shock
catches her at curtain-rise, rendering her
debut a wash-out.
She joins a travelling opera co. under
Maestro Feodor Glinka (Guy Bates Post),
and in Brazil another admirer (Allan
Mowbray) is murdered in
which implicate Marion. Thanks to testi-
mony by the dead man’s friend, she is
acquitted. She changes her name, goes
to Paris, and sings in second-class cafes.
Still under Glinka’s tutelage, she reclimbs
the ladder, and is eventually engaged
to appear at a big benefit performance.
Then another of Marion’s suitors, the
younger brother of a wealthy Brazilian
planter (Walter Pigeon), is found shot.
The planter, who up till now has shown
a marked antipathy to Marion, joins
urces with her to try to trap the triple
1 |H'. derer ‘ . su ?ceed in a thrilling
A he J lllds dls SU P"
posed hatred for Marion has been but
°^ e r dlss cmbled.
Mary Ellis is easy to look at, has a
voice which records with splendid effect,
and acts smoothly. Walter Pigeon gives
a clean-cut performance, and G. B. Post
has a character role made for him.
Strong support is given by Allan Mow-
bray, Ruth Donnelly, John Halliday and
Norman Foster. At Sydney Prince
Edward.
“Palm Sonnes”
v s
This third-rater has a plot that wouldn’t
strain the imaginative powers of a school-
boy. The many holes in it have been
filled up with crooning about the hills
of Wyomin’.
It is all about a girl who gets kicked
out of cahledge for gambling, and who
then poses as a membah of Albion's
nobilitay in exile so that she may land
a half-witted millionaire. She has to
live down a worthless father, who turns
out to be a real blue-blood. But mush
wins against the despised dahlar, and
she gives the h.-w.m. his conge —to tie up
with a cowboy who croons on a moonlit
hilltop at midnight.
Frances Langford croons through a
larynx that needs sandpapering, and as
an actress she sits a still horse without
falling off: Sir Guy Standing doesn't
enhance his reputation, and Smith Ballew
(the cowboy who croons) is worse than
Bing Crosby. The only decent bit of
acting is slung in by Ernest Cossart as
butler-cobber to a moth-eaten earl. Also
at the Prince Edward.
“Sons o’ Guns”
As a stage play, with Gus Bluett in
the leading role, this extravaganza made
Australia chuckle in the worst year of
the depression. On the screen, staged
with all Hollywood’s strong resources
and with a cast that includes Joe E.
Brown, Joan Blondell and Eric Blore, the
affair moves jerkily, and at times drags.
Some of the most effective stage situa-
tions seem tame, and the laughs are
elicited by little bits of by-play which, if
they were in the stage production, have
long been forgotten. Brown’s part as
the actor who got drafted by error
couldn’t be made credible by anyone—
it is a figment of pure farce, and so is
that of his valet —later his superior officer
—played by Eric Blore. They treat the
thing as farce, but unfortunately many
of the other characters are entirely
rational, which disturbs the atmosphere.
Joan Blondell is well cast as Yvonne,
the vivandiere, and her scenes with
Brown are amusing. An introduced
apache skit, with Brown wearing a
drooping moustache, is well done. At
Sydney Plaza.
“She Couldn’t Take It”
Any screen play in which George Raft
is cast as a gangster (with nerves of steel
and a heart of gold) is half-way to
success irrespective of other considera-
tions. In this case the story is fairly
well constructed, character-acting is ex-
cellent, and thrills are plentiful. A multi-
millionaire (Walter Connolly), unable to
control the extravagances and misbe-
havior of his wife, son and daughter, gets
himself railroaded to a Federal prison on
a charge of income-tax evasion so that
he can enjoy five years of peace and
quiet. In gaol he meets a bootlegging
big shot (Raft). They become friends,
and when the millionaire is stricken with
a fatal malady he makes the gangster
his trustee, with full control over for-
tune and family. Of course Raft falls for
the daughter (Joan Bennett), exhibits his
affection in the well-known Raft fashion
—he throws her in a river and wrecks a
limousine so that she shall have to walk
miles and miles in tight shoes—and
finally rescues her from kidnappers. At
Sydney Plaza,
“The Crime of Dr. Forbes”
Excellent character acting and effective
staging, combined with a clever solution
of a crime problem, lift this semi-thriller
out of the ruck. It is full of physicians,
and Robert Kent (as young Dr. Forbes),
J. Edward Bromberg, Sara Haden, Taylor
Holmes and Paul Stanton give clear-cut
pictures of varying types of medico. Dr.
Forbes, who loves the wife of his bene-
factor, Dr. Godfrey (Bromberg), is placed
in a terrible quandary when Godfrey,
condemned to a lingering and excruciat-
ingly painful death, begs to be put out
of his misery. When Godfrey dies Forbes
is charged with having murdered him,
and pleads guilty. There is a full-dress
representation of the trial and an unex-
pected and happy ending. Henry
Armetta, as a music-loving Italian cafe
proprietor, enlivens the evidence. Gloria
Stuart as Mrs. Godfrey is well cast. At
Sydney Capitol.


liojovfm a Ca i cnqituf
*•' * BUT CHILD’S PLAY FOR AN
INTERNATIONAL
%
k
mi:
M
i
m
m
i
m
u
m
You can run an International down
the steepest quarry ramp and be
quite certain that it will come up
smiling with a full, solid load . . ~
you will strike trouble if you
attempt these heavy slogging jobs
with a truck body built around a
car engine. All Internationals have
real truck engines and the struc-
tural stability that spell long life
and trouble-free operation.
Internationals for Everybody
And what a fleet—every unit a
masterpiece! . . . The heavy-duty
squadron—Dreadnoughts of the
highway . . . The speedy mobile
cruisers sturdy powerful
yet handy for every work-a-day
manoeuvre . . . and the light
flotilla to maintain trade com-
munications everywhere.
An International for You!
Every experienced truckman casts
an admiring glance when an Inter-
national passes him. Have a good
look over the International line.
The truck you want is there—from
heavy-duty to light-delivery
every unit a time saver—a money
saver.
Inspect the International fleet in
detail. You will have no difficulty
in selecting the truck to suit and
serve your every requirement.
Sizes range from half ton to five
tons—and for out-size jobs there
are the giant six-wheelers.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA „....
w
Some First Nights
“H.M.S. Pinafore” put to sea at Mel-
bourne His Majesty’s with the crew in
good voice. Ivan Menzies was skittish
and light-footed as the First Lord of the
Admiralty, Bernard Manning made a
bloodthirsty Dick Deadeye, Evelyn Hall
was an easy-to-listen-to Little Buttercup,
Gregory Stroud was handsome and brass-
braided as Captain Corcoran, and God-
frey Stirling was soulful as able seaman
Ralph. Richard Watson as Bill Bobstay
and Cliff Cowley as Bob, the carpenter’s
mate, entered into the spirit of things.
Helen Langton played Josephine and
Eileen Kelly was Hebe. The sailor boys
seemed to find their bell-bottomed
trousers and skin-tight jumpers incen-
tives towards extra mirth, but the sailor
girls, though they did their best, had a
difficult job in forgetting their bulky
pleated skirts, shapeless blouses and,
heaviest burden of all, white cotton
stockings,
•I* •!- *s* ►!-
“The Yeomen” followed “Pinafore” on
Saturday. Richard Watson again proved
himself a splendid actor and a fine singer.
His Gaoler-Assistant Tormentor was
superb and never exaggerated into farce.
Godfrey Stirling as Colonel Fairfax did
justice to “Is Life a Boon?” and “Free
from His Fetters.” Gregory Stroud was
imposing as the martial Lieut, of the
Tower, Bernard Manning sufficiently
dramatic as the counterplotting Sergeant
Meryll and Evelyn Hall successful in yet
another part which suits her, that
of the straight-spined Dame Carruthers.
Choruses were good, and Eileen Kelly
proved herself a much-improved young
actress. Winifred Lawson was Elsie
Maynard. Ivan Menzies as Point dis-
played his pretty wit and his perfectly-
shaped legs.
•!* *l*
Stephen Yorke and his redcoats began
a season at the King’s, Melbourne, last
week under the auspices of the übiquitous
A.B.C. That excellent pianist Henri
Penn, in a red coat like his colleagues,
co-operated with the brass men in a
concerto by Tschaikowsky. The band
was more at its ease in Moore’s “High-
land Scene,” with its picturesque tone
pictures of Scottish scenery, and the
ballet music from Gounod’s “Faust.”
And it was even more at its ease —in fact,
it was in its dressing-gown and slippers—
when it played “A Short Railway Jour-
ney,” with the instrumentalists some-
times blowing into their trumpets and
sometimes puffing their cheeks out and
chuffing in imitation of a steam engine.
And it was in the musical altogether
when it performed a piece representing
a naughty child exasperating its parents
and eventually being smacked, its
anguished howls concluding the opus.
The audience was enraptured with this
achievement, because it had no difficulty
in finding the key to an unmusical piece
of music. Nevertheless, there is no doubt
that Mr. Yorke can get an astonishing
variety of effects out of his organisation,
and, while some of them are merely
quaint, others are pleasing. Raymond
Beatty, the six-foot basso, also in a scarlet
coat but with the addition of a bandolier
across his breast, sings soldierly songs in
an artistic fashion.
*!* -!- v -I-
A comparative youngster as musi-
comedies go, “Sybil,” set in pre-Bolshie
Russia, comes with welcome freshness
after so many revivals. The plot has
some nice twists, the comedy is particu-
larly entertaining, Victor Jacobi’s ditties
are tantalisingly chirpy, and there is
scope for some colorful ballets. Peter-
sham Musical Society made an excellent
fist of the production. The group boasts
some pleasant voices, and a company 80
strong revelled in the amusing fantasy.
Leonora Lupp, John Bowles, Arthur
Bedwell, Don McGregor, Lilian Bauer,
Heather Williams and Arch Atkin had
most to do, and did it well. So did the
ballerinas.
’!* t -I- •£•
One of Frank Hutchens’s pupils,
Frank Blackman, a young Maorilander,
filled Sydney Con.’s small hall one night
last week for a pianoforte recital that
had as its main items the Bach-Tausig
Toccata and Fugue in D Minor and
Liszt’s B Minor Sonata. These are high
mountain peaks of pianism, and the
young man got within measurable dis-
tance of the summits. Fie keeps a firm
outline and plays intelligently. A ten-
dency to exaggerate light and shade and
to carry crispness to inordinate lengths is
more a virtue leaning backward than a
fault. Blackman has most of the ele-
ments of a pleasing, distinctive style. He
should concentrate on improving touch.
Current Artbursts
Roland Wakelin, two score of whose
paintings (a great many with red seals on
their white frames) occupy the walls of
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, is one
of those stern souls who regard self-
expression as a solemn duty. It is an
essential part of his formula that every
brush-stroke shall have a separate entity.
Forceful statement, with an insistence that
the medium is oil paint, is aimed at, and
the subject doesn’t seem to matter very
much. The method is applied to por-
traits, landscapes and still-life studies,
and the results are in some cases depres-
sing in their grimness. But some of the
portraits—particularly a self-portrait—
command admiration for their rugged
strength; the simplicity of “Landscape
with Judith” is appealing, and the still-
lifes, with their contempt for outline and
perspective and splendid loyalty to color,
are as final and intolerant as texts from
the Koran.
-I- *J* -I*
In the house of Art are many man-
sions. That occupied by S, Woodward-
Smith, whose pictures are on show at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, is sepa-
rated from Wakelin’s by a whole world
of outlooks and traditions. Woodward-
Smith worships Mother Nature because
he deems her beautiful. He finds end-
less inspiration in the sky, and finds the
blue parts of it as intriguing as the
clouds. So far is he from insisting on
the sky conforming to a Woodward-
Smith formula that he makes it look
“Sailing to Newfoundland,” by Ambrose
L. Hallen, at Anthony Horderns' Gal-
leries, Sydney.
exactly as it appears to common people.
It has depth and luminance and an aspect
of vast space, and when he dapples it
with clouds they are unmistakably clouds.
The landscapes that lie beneath these
serenely beautiful skies are quietly beau-
tiful, too. The color range is not wide.
There is one picture, “Children’s Hour,”
an evening scene with one star in the
sky, and a house with a few lighted win-
dows, sharply silhouetted against the
afterglow, which is likely to cause
modernist-expressionists to blaspheme. It
gets exactly the effect aimed at without
a distorted line or an interpolated
emphasis.
Woodward - Smith’s flower pieces,
painted with almost miniature delicacy,
make one think of Mozart—they are so
instinct with good taste. No matter
how many colors are used they refuse
to sing in anything but harmony.
-- -I- *l-
- L. Hallen, whose pictures fill
a spacious apartment in Anthony Hor-
derns’ Galleries, Sydney, has lived in
France for many years. As four or five
of his exhibits —his early work —show,
he started out on conventional lines and
developed a graceful line and a suave
touch with paint. Then, apparently, he
fell under the influence of Cezanne and
other French impressionists, and com-
menced to interpret things seen in an
idiom that allows the artist rather than
Nature to be the arbiter of color, and is
purposely careless of outline. Within the
canons of his style, Mr. Hallen is a vigor-
ous and daring painter, particularly suc-
cessful in the management of such effects
as light on water, and some of his color
combinations are very effective. Some of
the oils and water-colors on view repre-
sent the artist’s reaction to Sydney scenes,
but most of the pictures had their inspira-
tion in France or Italy.


OS
SC
m
/mm
mi ms
&
hi
$
nr
ii”
as
nn
<b
cs
ss
&
. . . then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
'THE WENTWORTH"
/;
&
ft
&
$
O
4
Wb
'o.
&
6
Half fheTrip is Dining
Enjoy Every Meal***
SHE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Last Thursday the Canberra was astir
with the lark and dressed long before the
morning mists had lifted from Rose Bay.
When the last bit of her bunting had been
fastened at the right angle the warship
waited the arrival of the Strathaird off
Cremorne. Here the State’s new Gov-
ernor, Sir Murray Anderson, and Lady
Anderson paced down the gangway
into a launch, and were welcomed aboard
the Canberra. The Admiral got into
his navy and gold, and Lady Anderson
(this is instinctive knowledge) arranged
the little veil on her pleated moire toque
and gave a last look at the glossy length
of her artificial pony-skin coat. Then they
felt ready to face their new kingdom.
The sky was speckless. Up the blue
terraces of air zoomed five ’planes in
silvered flight. Guns on the Canberra
boomed; guns on Mrs. Macquarie’s
Chair replied. Flags on the Man-o’-War
Steps and along the jetty seemed to stand
to attention, and the launch bearing the
Governor was made fast. Some enter-
prising decorator had grafted a flagpole on
one of the bollards. After one baffled
glance heavenward from the man whose
job it is to toss the mooring rope the
launch was tethered otherwise. The
National Anthem sounded, and this
State’s first representative of King Edward
VIII. stepped ashore.
On the roadway above the landing
stage was a company of the Navy, very
spick and span. There were lancers with
pennons flying; there were police,
mounted and foot; there were onlookers,
comfortably clad and smiling, tiers of
them. They pressed against the police
barriers ; they stood on the rising slope of
the Domain. Here a street-sweeper stood
for an enforced spell, leaning on his
broom. There stood a man, at least a
three days’ stubble on his chin, lean to
emaciation.
About the royal-blue dais at the land-
ing place were draped palms, Ministers
and their wives and the Mayor in his
ermine and chains of office. Acting-
Premier Bruxner and Mrs. Bruxner
arrived, she carrying a posy of mauve
and white hyacinths and lily-of-the-valley,
which she later presented to Lady Ander-
son. Her husband had the air of invit-
ing congratulations to the Government
on producing such a fine day. Chief
Secretary Chaffey came with Mrs.
Chaffey. She was one of the many in
black suits. Daughter Sheila’s blue suit
was fur-trimmed. Mrs. Ranald Peden’s
rosy angora frock was a welcome patch
amid the sombre hues. The wife of
Mines Minister Roy Vincent wore a
brown ensemble. Mrs. Matt Sawyer’s
hat was black and shady of brim. The
David lady and Olive Kelso King were
there ; so were Dr. Mary Booth and Mrs.
B. Muscio. Sir Murray and Lady Ander-
son seemed to top the lot. The new Gov-
ernor and his wife are both tall.
All the chairs and the gold settees in
the ballroom at Government House were
taken long before the new Governor
arrived for the swearing-in. Through the
long windows on to the terrace could be
seen brilliant lawn and shining vista,
stabbed here and there with spikes of
flowering prunis. Within, the scene was
not so brilliant. Women still clung to
their winter garb, and black was almost
uniform. Here came the Judges in their
robes —remindful of a Gilsullivan chorus,
but bringing the warmth of scarlet to
the room. Lieut.-Governor Philip Street
and his small lady were a pleasant duo.
Her black frock showed touches of white
and her coat was collared in skunk.
Mayoress Parkes brightened her navy
suit with a palely-gold blo.use. Violets
and fox furs and a slate-blue suit were
Mrs. Milner Stephen’s welcoming outfit.
Mrs. Robb’s suit was navy ; so was her
wide hat. Alexander Gordon’s lady was
a bright smile over a black Persian lamb
collar. Clifford Hay handsomely repre-
sented the Premier’s department and
sported spats. The Jordan lady was near the
dais ; later, her Chief Justice, scarlet and
impressive, was on it, administering oaths.
There was a stir in the doorway, there
was the flash of scarlet uniform, the glint
of the Navy’s blue and gold, and Sir
Murray Anderson, accompanied by Sir
Philip Street, the Chief Justice and the
Acting-Premier, walked to the dais. Oaths
were administered, signatures witnessed.
Official Secretary Robb read the procla-
mation to its stirring “God Save the
King!” Boom, boom, went the guns.
Another Governor was installed.
Lady Murray Anderson has a friendly
smile and a petal-fine skin that the cold
winds of Newfoundland have been lender
with. Before her marriage she was Edith
Muriel Teschemaker (her ancestry was
Dutch), and she was born in Maoriland.
Teschemaker is now the name of a little
station south of Oamaru, and the Tesche-
maker estate or part of it surrounds one
of the Dominican convents of the South
Island. The lady’s love of flowers was
shown when she told of the brief but lush
flowering season of Newfoundland. Here
in the marshy places are all sorts and
hues of shy and fugitive blossoms;
loveliest of all perhaps the little slipper
orchids. Both she and her husband are
fond of music. One of their delights in
their island home was to tune in their
wireless to the Philadelphia Symphony
Orchestra ; its concerts, in spite of the
ever-marauding winds of the Atlantic,
came over with great clarity. A visit to
the Zoo and one to the koala bears are
two looked-forward-to outings.
The new Governor’s lady is likely to
give an impetus to the garden cultivation
of native flowers and shrubs, and spoke
of South Africa’s work in this respect.
Though not claiming to be a good cook,
the new chatelaine of Government House
has a unique collection of recipes
gathered from all corners of the world.
Averse to the trapping of animals for
the fur trade, Lady Anderson wore on
her arrival a long coat of artificial pony
skin. Susan Paton, a niece of Lady
Anderson, is expected soon to arrive at
Government House. Already a cousin,
Rosemary de Sausmarez, is staying there.
Aeroplanes for Flora, all golden
flowers and streamers of skyey-blue and
red, had landed on the official tables at
the Royal Aero Club Ball. In addition
there were parking signs, giddy with
caricatures of club celebrities and little
jokes of which only the initiate got the
inner meaning. The dressing at this
dance leaned to the picturesque and the
period. Taffetas, moires and stiffened
net were much in evidence, and ribands
played a coy part. One of the pretty
frocks was worn by Mrs. Edward Mac-
arthur Onslow. Its stiffened net was a
morning-sky blue. It was full of skirt
and had rose-red ribbons at the waist.
With her was Mrs. Denzil Macarthur
Onslow (she and her husband returned
to Australia the other day). With- her
trailing gold lame frock she wore a rosy
chiffon scarf and red roses.
The Kingsford Smith lady wore white
Arctic fox furs with her black cellophane
laces. Flight-Lieutenant Norman Mul-
roney, who is president of the club, had
in the dark-haired Mrs. Norman a great
help in entertaining the official guests.
Her frock was of Deidre-green velvet ;
her slippers were gold. Wife of secretary
Stanley Bridgland wore parchment laces.
Puffed and ruched were the sleeves of
Mollie Poole’s black taffeta frock. Azure
blue was Elizabeth Godsall’s picture
frock. It had a bow, end on, at the
waist, and it had little puffed sleeves.
Mrs. A. T. Cole wore lacquered flowers
(black and white) with her off-white
crepes. Margaret Adams, who is licensed
to pilot, was one of the night’s hostesses.
There were more than 700 dancers.
This is Mollie Storey, one of a bevy
of nice girls on the committee of the Old
Sydneians’ sixteenth annual ball. This
happens to-night at the Blaxland Gal-
leries. Raymond Sawyer photograph.
Mrs. Rodney Dangar opened Wood-
ward-Smith’s show at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries. It is a very good show, and Mrs.
Dangar’s words were adequate to the
occasion and the flowers that surrounded
her. Most of these were from the
Dangar gardens. Rodney Dangar, tall
and grey-clad, squired his wife. Sister
Bea McDonald, in a suit of the soft-
est blue woollen angora, made up
the family group. Clara Butter, Pauline
Spencer Parsons, from Tasmania,
Lucille du Pain and Betty Fogarty were
a group of Doone ex-pupils. The
Charles Lloyd Jones couple dropped in
to compliment the artist. A prize clump
of the plumpest white snowdrops nodded
serenely in a glaze bowl. Woodward-
Smith had designed the cover of his own
catalogue. With what has proved to be
justified optimism he had stuck a red
seal against the word “Paintings” on the
cover.
The death in Paris of Mrs. Lachlan
Beaton tears another gap in Sydney’s
social fabric. Mrs. Beaton was a
daughter of the Dailey whose statue
stands in the Botanic Gardens, just
across the way from the Albany, where
the Lachlan Beatons lived for many
years. Mrs. Beaton, with her friend
Ruby Adams and her son Lachlan, had
lived in Paris since her husband’s death.
It is less than a year since her brother,
John Dailey, of The Bulletin staff,
was swept off the rocks near Avalon.
Daughter Janet (Mrs. Jack Lindsay)
lives in Sydney.
The annexe of David Jones’s buzzed
with cheery talk when the Harborside
branch of the C.W.A. met for pleasure
last week. The guests of the afternoon
were Sydney presswomen and C.W.A.
president Mrs. Matt Sawyer, and Miss
Warby handed out verbal posies, while a
spray of flowers that bloom in the spring
was handed to each guest. Another guest
of importance was Mrs. Baker, wife of
the Burns Philp magnate. Along with its
other benefits to Australia the C.W.A. has
hatched a fine lot of women speakers.
Soon the male orator will have to hand
out more than a string of half-baked
platitudes if he hopes for applause from
the sex. Speakers included Mrs. Arthur
James, Mrs. Matt Sawyer, Mrs. W. B.
Studdy and Mrs. S. Ritchie. Mrs. H.
Ridley helped the smooth running of the
afternoon. Mrs. Leishmann’s cameolike
profile was glimpsed. Mrs. J. F. C.
Armstrong, Mrs. A. H. Parnell and Mrs.
H. C. Mclntyre were others noted.
Sumer is icumen in. The sap’s run-
ning free in the trees, the bulbs send up
green stem and delicate flower, and shops
rush feverishly into window displays.
One store window has a background of
pleated newsprint. Centre stage stands
a lady with a newsprint face and
hands, on her head is a parterre
of gaily-hued flowers, in her grasp
a wide-leafed hat of petunia shade.
Next door to her there is a corner of
Hyde Park, with a sketchy background
of skyscrapers. Two ladies disport them-
selves on a grassed and flowering bank.
Both are taking the sun in evening dress.
One. her full skirts of black net
appliqued in large white flowers, bends
her head in contemplative mood between
two puffed sleeves. The other is lying,
arms behind her head. Her ankle-length
frock is of black organza squiggled over
with black braid, its hem a deep band
of white organza or organdie. The ladies
are wearing their evening frocks in Hyde
Park in the morning—just for fun.
“Sumer is icumen in—sing cuccu.”
The performance of Mrs. Ada A.
Holman’s three-act play, “The Premier’s
Wife,” will take place at David Jones’s
auditorium on September 16, in aid of
the Deaf and Dumb and Blind Children,
Darlington. Preliminary activities to
augment the funds include a guessing
competition, the prize for which will be
a tailor-made coat and skirt donated by
A. E. James. In addition, a card party
will be held at the Carlton Hotel on the
afternoon of August 21, and there will
be a picture party at the King’s Theatre,
Rose Bay North, on September 1.
Mrs. Diana Avail, who as a small girl
was known in Sydney as Diana Cum-
berlege, daughter of Captain Claude
Cumberlege, of the R.A.N. (he is now a
rear-admiral), is among those to whom
the Spanish situation has brought
tragedy. She and her husband and small
daughter Paloma were staying with
friends at Talavera, when a group of
men hammered at the door and called
their host, his son and her husband into
the garden. Three minutes later three
shots rang out, and Mrs. Avail knew her
husband was dead.
The Navy pinnaces got on their skis the
other night and simply swooped across
the velvety waters of the harbor, bring-
ing guests to the Canberra dance. This
is the first flutter the service has had for
a long time, because of Court mourning,
and with the luck of the Navy the night
was soft with spring and spangled with
stars. Not that it mattered once aboard
the ship, for the night was discreetly
awninged out. This was the first junket-
ing since the arrival of Rear-Admiral
Lane Poole and his lady, so the whole
quarter-deck was hubble-bubble with fes-
tivity. Red and white awnings, flags, the
dazzle of lights, the inevitable palms (are
they a variation of the hands-across-the-
sea motif ?) were the setting for frock-
ing that suggested solid cash or fright-
fully good credit.
Four hundred dancers were bade wel-
come by Captain A. G. Wilson and his
officers. The Mayoress was one of them.
She came with her husband, Alderman
Parkes. Her flowered chiffon frock
was worn under a hip-length fur coat.
The admiral’s wife had had an artistic
afterthought, and had fastened a spray
of pale-pink stock at the neckline of her
ivory lace frock. This was furthermore
embellished with a seventh-dimensional
bow of silver lame. Mrs. Edward Mac-
arthur Onslow brought in spring with
her peach-blossom satin and her long
tulle scarf.
Mrs. Jimmy Dixson’s long length of
ivory satin was girdled with a jewelled
belt. Rose and gold shone Nedra Ryrie’s
frock. Mrs. Bertie Kelly wrapped her
pink satins in a ground-length cape of
thick, soft silk patterned with rosebuds.
Joan Waddell’s smart black satins
featured diamente hooks and eyes. Mary
Hordern was a wearer of pale pink. Joan
Marks chose wine velvet. The Admiral
and Mrs. Lane Poole gave a dinner
before the dance ; so did many others,
among them Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar
(she was handsome in brown velvet with
gold design) and Captain and Mrs. A. B.
Doyle, of Garden Island.
The Schloss which houses Joan Ham-
mond and part at least of the Viennese
Boys’ Choir was built by Prince Rudolf,
the ill-fated heir to the Austrian throne. It
is beautifully kept, and half the Schloss
grounds are in the Vienna woods. When
Joan wrote there were three Americans
at this school of music. One was a
choirmaster from New York, and an-
other was one of the best-known Ameri-
can choirboy soloists. An attendance at
the opera almost nightly during the
season and the mastering of a role every
two weeks are part of Miss Hammond's
education. The countess who helps direct
the Schloss gave a great afternoon party in
honor of Joan, and to this came Lehmann
and Schumann. When Joan’s last letter
reached Sydney she and the whole school
were off to the mountains for eight
weeks.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A
medicinal
preparation
—not a
confection
HUDSONS
EUMENTHOI' «*
JUJUBES
For Coughs.
Colds. -
influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
e
Melbourne
Chatter
After four consecutive nights of train
travelling Lady Huntingfield was not too
weary to appear at the Gloucester Ball,
give a special smile to each of the 30
young debs, and chat for a couple of
hours with headmistresses. After their
presentation the buds and their partners
danced the valse cotillion (a measure
from the days of Napoleon) to a medley
of Strauss waltzes, at the conclusion of
which they gathered by prearrangement
around the v.-r. chair for Lady Hunting-
field’s presentation of their gift of a pearl
necklace to Kathleen Lascelles.
Thirty public and private schools are
represented on the Gloucester committee,
which held its first ball last year—the
object, the rebuilding of the girls’ ward
of the Prince Henry Hospital. This
year’s effort for the same cause had the
ranks of its dancers thinned by several
other events, including functions at Tin-
tern and Fintona and the Union Bank
Ball, which took, among other enthu-
siasts, one of the ticket secs., Margaret
Leitch, who represented St. Margaret’s
on the committee. The other secs, were
Norma Blanch (Toorak College), who
wore swamp-green and sprigs of daphne
in her hair, Marion Thomson (of
Warwick), whose olive-green gown was
cut to a Grecian inspiration, and Roslyn
McKenzie Henry (Ballarat Grammar),
who left her dark hair unadorned, and
chose jewel-green linings for the long
scarf drooping from the shoulders of
her mushroom satin gown. Among
others present were Mr. and Mrs.
Leonard Gray, Mrs. Gray in shower-of-
hair muslin of primula-pink ; Peggy Wil-
liamson, in black ; Maimie Felstead, in
hibiscus-red lace; Pat Haynes, who
twisted a green sash round a flowered
frock; Max Williamson and medicoes
A. Mathieson and Alan Jeffrey.
Since last year’s Joy Bells Ball there
has been yet another addition to the
Wallace Mitchell family. Young Hugh,
sixth son and eighth rung of the steps
and stairs, is now four and a half months
old. Responsibilities of such a brood
sit lightly on both parents, who were to
the fore with organising this year’s Joy
Bells at the Embassy, which pealed forth
in the interests of the orthopaedic sec-
tion of the Children’s Hospital at Frank-
ston.
Among other committee people present
was Mrs. Evan Pearse, whose mother-
of-pearl satin gown had its wing draperies
charged with fuchsia, and Mrs. James
Watt, whose geranium velvet ’sparkled
with diamente brooches. Lucky strikes
for lucky matchbox-holders were a set
of diamente clips, a bottle of whisky and
Mrs. Frederick Henty’s gift of bag and
gloves in pastel-pink moire, which should
be very acceptable accessories for
spring’s late-afternoon or evening func-
tions. Valmai Fleming Dunstan and
Norma Hosken carried large shallow
baskets of orchids, their tactics being
first to induce interest in blooms valued
at 255., gradually, if the customers proved
unresponsive, to suggest the ss. flowers,
and, failing all else, become persuasive
about ribbon-lengths of drink tickets.
Norma’s crowning success was a five-
pound note from A. E. Eastaugh for one
pink-and-purple flower.
Three musketeers who pulled corks
all the evening behind the bar were Roy
King, with a giddy gardenia in his
buttonhole, F. Fitz Gibbon, who had two
gardenias until they were purloined by
an acquaintance, and George Haines,
whose wife contributed voluntary assis-
tance to the band by crooning through
the mike. Scarlet flowers were Mrs. Jack
Dunstan’s burst of color on a black
dress. Gwen Williams, in mushroom
drapings, clipped two little bows to her
hair. Mrs. W. R. Treacy wore matelasse
in willow-wand-green, and Lorna Grant’s
black ninon had its shoulder scarves
lined with turquoise.
For anyone who has the thought of
green pastures at the back of his mind,
the event of the week was the Sheep
Show—or the fifty-eighth annual exhibi-
tion of the Australian Sheepbreeders’
Association, for which nearly 800 cham-
pion jumbucks were entered from well-
known studs in Victoria, N.S.W. and
Tasmania. Some of the wealthiest pas-
toralists in the country bowed their tall
heads to enter primitive skeleton lifts,
which carried them to the top floor of
Goldsbrough Mort’s warehouse. On the
first day men paid ss. and women 2s. 6d.
for the privilege of gazing at King
Merino ; on the second day, men’s ad-
mission was lower and the ladies came in
for nothing. At the sales on the third day
lunch was thrown in with entry tickets.
A pen under the banner of John Wil-
liamson and Sons, of Lochinver, con-
tained on the first day of the show a
Border Leicester ewe. On the second
day twin lambs shared the domicile of
the snobbish-looking lady. Almost next
door were exhibits from Dr. Arnold
Caddy, one of Victoria’s few first-class
sheepbreeders who did not grow up in
the game. He was a medico in India
until he came to Australia about a de-
cade ago, bought land and started to
study sheep scientifically.
A well-known figure missed by sheep-
men during last week was that of
Edmund Jowett, who died last year. He
was an old ’un who refused to grow old,
and of his various activities the two
things nearest to his heart were sheep and
ballroom dancing. At the sales, if an
animal were worth anything from 50
to 5000 guineas Edmund always had his
little joke by opening the bidding with
an aggressive fiver.
Herewith a Broothorn photo, of Olive
Agar, daughter of the Professor of Zoo-
logy and Mrs. W. E, Agar, Since leav-
ing school Olive has taken seriously to
the study of the arts, particularly the
piano, at the Conservatorium, and danc-
ing with Eunice Weston. She took part
in Miss Weston’s ballet recital held this
week, and with several other promising
pupils is preparing for an exam, next
year, when Edward Espinosa will visit
Australia as representative of the British
Ballet organisation.
Miss Weston has been appointed the
British Ballet’s representative in Aus-
tralia. She was born in the Channel
Islands, and has been in Australia nine
years. She is an advanced member of
the Royal Academy of Dancing, and
was given the singular honor of being
admitted without examination as a Fel-
low of the Imperial Society of Dancing.
She passed all her exams, while studying
with Genee, and was Judith Espinosa’s
head assistant. Edward Espinosa com-
piled syllabus and theory of the R.A.D.
and the British Ballet organisation. Felix
Demery, who visited Australia last year,
was one of his pupils.
Five hundred people of all ages and
both sexes rolled up to dine with R. G.
Menzies in Myer’s mural hall. Mr. Men-
zies’s sister, Mrs. I. A. Green, organised
the affair, which was not by invitation ;
anyone could go who was willing to pay
a table d’hote charge. There were no
speeches except the guest of honor’s witty
hour’s oration, which was sandwiched be-
tween the Lord Mayor’s brief introduc-
tion and William Brunton’s word of
thanks. R.G. told several tales about his
meeting with J. M. Barrie, who fortu-
nately, took a liking to the Australian—
if he dislikes people he doesn’t hide his
opinions. It is the privilege of the bril-
liant to be eccentric, for after dinner
Barrie disappeared and came back wear-
ing an overcoat, which was not a hint
for his guests to go home, but prepara-
tion to take “Mingies” out into the
garden and talk cricket.
An anecdote which R. G. Menzies told
about Barrie’s prowess in sticking stamps
on ceilings has already lost many bottles
of beer in bets for people who had never
heard of the trick. The stamp, moistened
on the sticky side, is placed face down-
wards on a penny which is spun to hit
the ceiling. A good spinner always sticks
the stamp first try. The trick is much
easier than it sounds, and bets against
one's neighbor's skill should be made on
no rash impulse.
A Broothorn glimpse of Claire Thomp-
son, who recently obtained her A-pilot’s
license. She is the younger daughter of
the late Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Thompson,
and is a sister of Freda Thompson, who
piloted her own ’plane from England to
Australia at the end of 1934. Claire has
not so far bought a ’plane for herself.
She is an old girl of St. Catherine’s, and
went abroad to finish her education.
At the wedding of Elaine Gibson and
Gordon Massey there were neither ’maids
nor best man, and only a handful of inti-
mate friends was invited to witness the
vows in Toorak kirk. But the couple
did not set off on their honeymoon as
quietly as they went to their wedding, for
the bride held a cocktail party afterwards
at Loudon, her home in Toorak-road.
She is the only daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. W. A. Gibson, and was given
away by her cousin, Leslie Gray. The
’groom is the elder son of the Gordon
Massey couple of Lansell-road. The
bridal gown, in a muted shade of rose-
beige georgette, accompanied a little
snuff-brown hat with a fly-away tulle
brim and, as there was a nip in the wind,
a cape of summer ermine.
Many brides include tailored suits in
their trousseaux, but few of them think
of choosing a man tailor to create the
bridal gown. Meg Pestell’s wedding
raiment justified the experiment; her
white satin gown was cut with slimly-
fitting simplicity by a genuine tailor. At
the reception which followed on the
marriage in St. George’s, Malvern, an un-
commonly bright speech was forthcoming
from Col. G. F. Wilkinson, who started
off by proposing the health of the bride’s
parents, Colonel and Mrs. W. Pestell.
Among other speakers were W. E.
Graham and Cuthbert Cate and bride-
groom Len Leckie.
The ’Varsity Dramatic Club made an
excellent effort of “A Symphony in Two
Flats,” put on for two nights at the
Garrick in aid of the new clubhouse
building fund. Tom Eckersley, who sails
off to Japan at the end of the year to
take advantage of his Mollison Scholar-
ship in Japanese, made a commendable
job of the part of David Kennard, who
writes the symphony and loses his eye-
sight. Peggy Mackay made a lively Mrs.
Plaintiff. Mollie Shackleton interpreted
a hilarious Salmon, the cyclonic young
woman who paints and does gym. on
horizontal bars. Esme Broadhurst was
Beryl Plaintiff, June Phillipson was
Mabel; Dorothy Ratcliffe played David’s
wife Lesley and John Samuel the faith-
ful friend Leo.
Ormond Ball thinned out the audi-
ence on the first night, but Saturday’s
show was much better patronised. No
professionals could have had a more
appreciative audience. Terence Crisp
produced and girl undergrads, helped by
selling sweets in the intervals.
What choice of dress should a concert
singer make for a matinee? For women
afternoon gowns are conventional, some-
times with the addition of hats and furs;
for men lounge suits are usually con-
sidered satisfactory. But Richard Crooks
makes use of the American precedent for
mixtures. At his last afternoon concert
he wore brown trousers, black coat and
a grey tie. Pianist Frederick Schau-
wecker matched the singer with the same
color scheme, and the man whose job
it was to open and shut the grand piano
varied the uniform with brown trousers
and a navy blue coat.
Crooks gives more and more “popular”
songs at his concerts. The sentimental
“Because” always creeps in somewhere
as an encore, and is received with thun-
derous clapping and stamping of feet.
Mothers and fathers (particularly
mothers) who were brought up on
Gilbert and Sullivan are taking their
offspring along to see some of the old
favorites. At “The Yeomen of the
Guard” on Saturday two small girls in
white frocks, with blue ribbon bows in
their fair hair, enjoyed their night out
from the front row of the dress circle.
Farther back a young lad with bright-
red hair and well-scrubbed knees got his
own particular thrill out of the Assistant
Tormentor, and decided that sooner or
later he must go to London and see the
Tower and the place where so many
people had their heads chopped off.
Two attractive young matrons who
accompanied husbands were blonde Mrs.
Alec Finlay, whose black gown had wide-
winged silver lapels, and Mrs. Guy Bar-
renger, whose green-and-pink floral dress
was covered by a squirrel coat and who
varied the prevailing inclination for
orchids and lily-of-the-valley with rose-
buds on her shoulder. The Stanley
Frankenbergs were in the stalls ; so were
Dr. and Mrs. Officer-Brown, she wearing
black and a fingertip-length black-and-
gold coat. Mrs. Sam Harcourt chose a
geranium velvet gown and a little fur
cape. Among others present were the
Nevil Hollinsheds and Professor Skeats.
An attractive lass who is receiving
felicitations on her engagement is Dinah
Cockrill, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. Cockrill, of Malvern, Max
Gaylard, of Shepparton, a son of Mr.
and Mrs. S. G. Gaylard, of Kew, pro-
vided the ring.
The police method of educating pedes-
trians to keep to the left and to wait for
the lights to turn from yellow to green
before crossing intersections is being
pushed down everybody’s throats with
the aid of loudspeakers. But no one
likes being shouted at. Where overhead
notices would probably have evoked
amiable response, a loud, dictatorial
bellow causes irritation and obstinacy. It
comes from a trumpet on the roof of a
car, and for the first few days it caused
minor traffic jambs. The yellow-light rule
is sinking in satisfactorily, but the “keep-
to-the-left” ukase is a far more difficult
business.


Flawless materials, delicately
wrought by master craftsmen, give
Stuart Crystal the peculiar depth and
brilliance found in no other glass.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold
Soleßepresentatives (wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street Sydney.
Stuart
Crystal
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A,
TO
of 1
Qofo^ aii ° a
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANSI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the \Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other routs
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Freshwater Bay Yacht Club was fes-
tooned with colored lights for its final
dance before moving to its new home at
Keane’s Point. Commodore G. H.
Bacon was at the helm with Mrs. Bacon’s
Chantilly laces alongside. Prizes were
distributed to skippers of winning sail-
ing-boats, and A. T. Sherwood, who
founded the club 40 years ago, was pre-
sented with an electric clock, which is
to be framed with the jarrah taken from
the first pile used in the club’s present
premises. Mrs. Sherwood watched the
doings in filmy black lace and georgette,
Mrs. Alex. Williams flung a white ostrich-
feather cape over sequined black ninon
and Mrs. J. Tonkin’s rose faille glistened
with silver.
With nearly 40 exhibitors the opening
of the W.A. Women Painters and
Applied Arts Soc.’s first exhibition found
Newspaper House Art Gallery crowded.
The walls were lined two and three deep
with water-colors, oils, pastels and black-
aifd-whites. Glassed cabinets kept
touchers from fingering the hand-painted
china (there was many an itch for Miss
Fanning’s fish set, with its delicate design
of salmony-pink goldfish flipping through
fronds of seaweed). Sculpture and model-
ling were on the dais, and in lieu of
seats down the centre of the room there
were exhibits of embroidery, leather-
work, carving and pottery.
The lights from myriads of Chinese
lanterns outlining Royal Perth Yacht
Club were reflected in the turbulent
waters of the Swan, when members
launched their annual dance. Commo-
dore George Gwynne cut the painter with
a score of honored guests aboard. Sheila
Hayes spread sails of canvas-colored
pleated georgette, Mrs. Felix Levinson
stamped a gold ensign on her black
pebble crepe, Molly Maginnis hoisted a
gold sequin cape above her black mate-
lasse, and Elsie Paxton was mast-like in
clinging tar-black chiffon.
The Uni. Choral Society burst into
opera for half its programme at Win-
throp Hall. A recorded version of the
orchestral prelude to “Lohengrin” lent
atmosphere for the singing of the first
act, with the chorus doing good work
under A. J. Leckie’s baton. Marcia
Hodges was Elsa, and Len Hancock,
T. C. Miller and C. L. Jenkins were also
soloists. The Western Studio Orchestra
collaborated.
August ushered in a series of staff,
club, association and society dances.
The Vacuum Oil Co.’s ball at the Em-
bassy was one of the largest, a strong
complement of supporters coming from
the party brought along by manager
J. C. Murray and his jade-green ninon-
clad lady. The Old Scotch Collegians
took partners to Anzac House, where
president H. S. Thompson, with Mrs.
Thompson’s sherry satins at elbow, stood
at the portals.
Karrakatta Club was gay with Iceland
poppies and wild grasses when mem-
bers entertained Lady Huntingfield at
morning-tea. The guest of honor, who
wound silver-fox furs about her black-,
grey- and white-flecked tweeds, was re-
ceived by the acting-president, Mrs.
G. W. Wickens, whose brown tailored
suit was topped by a soft velour hat.
Half the medical fraternity of Perth,
plus better-halves, turned up at the
Mount Hospital’s dance at the Karra-
katta Club. Matron Forsyth, with autumn
foliage and berries pinned to her velvet-
sashed pink crepe faille, received the
guests against a background of camellias
and ferns in the hall and vyintergarden.
Mrs. Theodore Ambrose had violet
blooms in her blush-rose ripple satin.
From England comes news of Kath
Crammond’s engagement to Bill Erquhart.
They met 18 months ago in London,
though both hail from Perth, Nearer
home is a good crop of engagements.
Freda, one of the J. L. B. Weirs’ sextet
of daughters, has announced hers to Dr.
Bertram Nairn ; Gwen Church is to wed
another medico, George Pottinger, of
Roe bourne ; the L. Butler’s only daugh-
ter Marjorie is to marry Mossis Foster,
of Elwood, Vic. ; and Gwennie Male is
engaged to Ken Hatfield, of Nedlands.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
As a finale to a long series of bridge
parties in the interest's of the 10 Flower
Princesses representing kindergartens, a
huge ball was held at the Palais Royal.
It was announced that over £l2OO had
been collected, Peggy Dawe as Princess
Daffodil, representing Bowden kinder-
garten, brought in votes worth over
£2OO.
The charming pageantry, which had
been designed by the Bonython lady,
was excellently presented. At 10 p.m.,
when the last vote had been recorded
and no one knew who had won, the
floor was cleared, and Dr. and Mrs.
Leonard Trott’s three small daughters
appeared as Queen of the Fairies and
attendants. The Queen (Ninette Trott)
mounted a small dais in the centre of
the floor, and the two little fairies, assisted
by the two debs., Martha Hatwell and
Rosalie Walker, made a fairy ring round
the dais with little sugar toadstools.
The Queen then descended, and the pro-
cession of Flower Princesses mounted
the dais in turn, bowed to the v.-r. box,
and then took up a position in the fairy
ring. When the 10 were grouped the
Queen sent her fairies to bring forward
Princess Daffodil, and presented her with
a miniature silver crown on a cushion.
Each princess was gowned in a color to
correspond with the flower she repre-
sented, with a wreath and sheaf of
the flowers.
The Bonython lady, as president of the
Kindergarten Union, received the official
guests gowned in black crepe cut on
princess lines with a cape effect. The
guests included Mrs. Haselden (sister
of the Governor), who wore a long black
velvet coat over a black toilette ; George
Ritchie and his lady, she in black ring
velvet, with a corsage spray of pink
roses ; Mrs. R. L. Butler, in daffodil de-
lustred satin moulded to the figure, and
Jean Butler, whose black marocain fitted
to the figure.
To raise funds for Molly Newland,
who represents the Sir Charles Forbes in
the pioneer ship competition for Kuitpo,
two very successful bridge parties were
held at the home of Henry Newland and
his lady, North Adelaide. The arrange-
ments were in the hands of Miss New-
land and Inez Hynes.
A centenary pageant organised by Mrs.
Frank Lawrence, and held at the Mitchell
Memorial Hall in aid of kirk funds,
brought to light some very interesting
relics. More than 40 women took part
in the pageant, which depicted fashions
from 1836 to 1936. Nancy Wallace and
Fona Spiers appeared as cyclists of 40
years ago, and 1936 was represented by
bathing girl, tennis girl and aviatrix.
For the Public Service Hockey Club’s
Ball the King’s Ballroom was elaborately
decorated and hung with colored electric
light's. The president, Miss M. Skeving-
ton, received the guests gowned in
sapphire-blue chiffon velvet, with Ren
naissance ornaments, and carried a
bouquet of pale-pink roses. Madge
Wilkins (hon. sec.) brightened her black
silk chiffon with red and green flowers.
Her tunic of black ring velvet was fin-
ished with a sash of pale-green soft satin,
and she wore a necklace of real yellow
pansies.
A bright cabaret dance was arranged
by Mrs. Keith Bowman, of Poltallach,;
at Mount Osmond Country Club, for;
Daphne Bowman, who represents the
Lady Emma. A feature was a scena
designed by Mrs. Bowman and her
daughter. At 10 p.m. the floor was
cleared, and Charles Lovett and Miss
Connie gave an intricate modern dance.
Then the lights were lowered and the
curtains drawn aside from a corner of
the ballroom to show an immense album
titled “Our Yesterday.” Mr. Lovett
stepped forward and opened the book,
and a powerful spotlight played upon an
1836 portrait of Daphne Bowman in an
oval on a white background gowned in
a black brocade and taffeta costume with
large bustle and train, tight-fitting bodice
and white lace jabot. She turned slowly
as the “Blue Danube” waltz was played
and, stepping out, danced the old-style
waltz first by herself and then with Mr.
Lovett before returning to the album,
when the lights came on again.
The ballroom was arranged as a
cabaret, and decorated with foliage
painted gold and mixed with scarlet
flowers. The hostess was smartly gowned
in black romaine hairstriped in gold, cut
on princess lines and worn with a short
coat of black silk embroidered in white.
Daphne chose purple chiffon velvet cut
on slim lines, with long scarf ends from
the shoulders of orchid mauve chiffon
and a shoulder spray of mauve sweet-peas
and violets.
The marriage of Jean, eldest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Corpe, to Peter,
son of the F. Siekmanns, of Kensington
Gardens, was a quiet affair. The bride
wore the magnolia satin wedding dress
of her grandmother, Mrs. J. R. Corpe,
of North Adelaide (modernised), and the
tulle bridal veil and diamond pendant
had also been worn by her grandmother.
The bride’s younger sister “Tommy” was
bridesmaid.
The Repertory Theatres of Adelaide
and Perth are swapping talent. Perth
was the first to engage a full-time secre-
tary, and Cyril Riley’s Adelaide experi-
ence got him the job. Now Adelaide
finds the need of such an official, and
Riley, chosen out. of a large list of appli-
cants, returns to S.A. with his Western
experience. So there is again a vacancy
at Perth.
TASMANIA.
Social affairs in honor of Federal
Treasurer Casey and his wife included
a lunch given by Mrs. A. N. Lewis to
Mrs. Casey at the Queen Mary Club, a
tea-party at the same place, when Miss
R. Maxwell was hostess, lunch with the
Young Nationalist party at the Imperial,
and a late-afternoon party at the Francis
Fosters’ in Hampden-road. Also an
A.W.N.L, party at the League’s rooms.
In the intervals of address-making and
social functions, the Caseys searched,
under the guidance of friends, for old
and odd things. Mrs. Casey came off
the better for a still-life by Gould, but
the major failed to trace a clock that
belonged to his grandfather, who prac-
tised medicine at Port Arthur. Major
Casey has presented a number of this
ancestor’s surgical instruments to the
Hobart and Launceston Hospitals.
The Richmond Troop 22nd Light
Horse ran a ball in the local Town Hall
the other night, when the floor was
crowded with dancers from the whole
surrounding district and from town.
Troop colors, blue and gold, were used
in decoration. Lieut, and Mrs. R. G.
Swan did duty as host and hostess, and
had a big official party with them.
The Tas. Aero Club said it's thanks to
the womenfolk who engineered the recent
ball with a picture-show, dance and
supper at the Continental. F. H. Huxley
welcomed the guests on behalf of presi-
dent D Alton—a very cheery evening was
spent.
University highbrows and others
played bridge in the A.W.N.L’s rooms
in the interests of the Women Gradu-
ates’ Prize fund. The Chancellor and
Mrs. Stops, Vice-Chancellor and Mrs.
Morris Miller, John McPhee and his
lady and Dr. Christine Walch were
among those who took tables.
Mrs. Arnold Banks-Smith, retiring
from the N.C.W. on account' of ill-
health, after 15 years of fine service, was
given a farewell party at the Lyceum
Club, when Lady Clark made a presen-
tation.
Dorothy Helmrich was given a recep-
tion by the local A.B.C. heads at Hadley’s
hotel. Col. Thomas did the honors and
musical people were chiefly in evidence.
Miss Helmrich sported a navy-blue suit
with a small hat and little eyeveil. She
mentioned having met Tasmanian singer
Benson in London, and prophesied
further successes for him.
Gwen, daughter of Mrs. W. Hart,
Evandale, and Trevor Hogarth, Western
Junction, became one at the Evandale
kirk, the bride in a navy tailored suit
with a silver-fox stole.
.
Marjorie> a daughter o£ bulletin
y g Clegs has with friend
D(>rothy ' Mason o ®f’ ed h a mtle Sydney
eyrie. This they call the Arm Chair
rest-room, and it is on the first floor of
Dymock’s Buildings in George-street.
Here Y ou can write letters, telephone,
re P air y° ur toilette, hire an umbre a,
eave a P arce l-


m
y I
m
w.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-comz-io>2
SYDNEY
cwr-ZOUH*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD.. Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd*
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F ; E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve ‘‘BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Marama”: Trade has been booming
in Fiji. There were a £260,000 leap in
the value of imports and a £350,000 leap
in exports in 1935, thanks in part to the
rise in copra prices. Not even during
the depression did Fiji have an adverse
trade balance, and this last year it was
on the right side by £553,000, equal to
44 p.c. of imports value. Sugar export
was worth £1,314,000 and copra
£220,000. Public finance is as sound as
trade balance, and this last year it was
£92,251. This has been locked safely
away with previous surpluses against a
rainy day, bringing the total reserve to
£353,000. During the year 69330 z. of gold
was sent away from the millioned mines
of the North.
* * i-s *
“Dungeness”: North Queensland is up
in arms against the arbitrary termination
of the 44-year-old mail-service connection
between N.Q. ports and the Pacific
Islands. Without deigning to ask the
opinion or wishes of the people chiefly
interested, our haughty Postal Depart-
ment has issued a ukase which chops
Townsville, Cairns and Cooktown clean
out of the map so far as direct postal or
commercial communication with Papua,
the Mandated Territory and the British
Solomons is concerned. Everything is to
go via Brisbane, and the only response
to protests so far has been, a polite inti-
mation amounting to permission for
for those who don’t like it to lump it.
But, except for spasmodic advertising
efforts connected with winter health
trips to those pleasant waters by politi-
cians needing a change of air at the
public expense, Canberra takes no real
interest in the peevish reactions of tropi-
cal wrecks who haven’t the sense to live
in a proper climate.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: That redoubtable unit of
the Commonwealth’s floating strength
the Larrakeah, designed to dash across the
Timor Sea to the rescue of disabled air-
liners, to overawe alien mother-ships and
perhaps take politicians on fishing trips,
has again furnished Darwin with excite-
ment. Forgetful for the moment that the
local tides fall 25ft. or so instead of the
decent five or six favored by civilised
places like Melbourne or Sydney, the
crew tied her up securely to the wharf
and took a walk up town. Returning,
they were met by an excited angler with
the news that the flamin’ boat was doin’
no good for herself hangin’ up like that.
A hurried dash revealed the fact that she
was a good eight feet above water level
and groaning ominously. Quick work
in passing a rope cradle round her tor-
tured hull enabled the good ship to
remain in one piece until the next tide.
* > * *
The new secretary of the Queensland
Aero Club is Irene Graham, who was
selected from among 120 applicants. She
is a Victorian who has been holding
down an executive job with the Queens-
land Oxygen Co. for 12 years.
* * * $
“II Vecchio”: A little-trumpeted war
disturbed the Ingham (N.Q.) railway the
other day. A few foreigners got into an
argument on Ingham station with an
Australian with a wooden leg. Two or
three Diggers applied “sanctions,” artd
the passage of Forgan Smith’s train from
Ingham to Bermerside was marked by
yells, curses and knockouts, during which
a good time was had by all who re-
mained conscious. At Bermerside, one
of the foreigners, who had been enjoying
a good sleep, brought on by the impact
of a Digger fist, shouted for help, and
fellow-“nationals” laid siege to a railway
carriage, pelting the occupants with
bottles and stones. Luckily, the train
left before there was any bloodshed.
* * * #
“Kelvin Grove”: The Brisbane build-
ing trade looks as if it is in for a boom.
Last week the old Normanby Hotel,
which has been in the hands of the Bur-
ton family for 65 years, was sold to a
brewery for £52,000. The Common-
wealth Bank has bought the Adelaide-
Albert street corner near the Town Hall,
and will put up a new savings bank there.
The Metropolitan Life, which sold the
block for £50,000, has bought a site in
Upper Queen-street, and the Temperance
and General has acquired Watson’s
Chambers in Queen-street to build.
# * #
Just dead, Paul Sylow was well known
wherever sugar was grown in the Pacific.
He was a Dane, born in Copenhagen in
1859. Educated as an industrial chemist,
he made a trip to Greenland and then
“Do you think the congregation would object to my removing my coat ?”
settled down in the Copenhagen beet-
sugar refinery. In 1885 he went to Fiji
as mill chemist to the C.S.R., and from
that start became chief chemist to the
co. in Sydney and manager of the New
Farm refinery in Brisbane. He retired
in 1927.
#
“Zedo”; The Cumberland Group, near
the Whitsunday Passage (N.Q.), is to
have its first hotel, the license having
been allotted last week. At present the
only beverages to be obtained in that
paradise, which is unsurpassed in beauty
in any part of the world, are sea water
and a little goat’s milk.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Forgan Smith has joined the
restrictionists with the suggestion that the
output of sugar should be cut down. He
could far more sanely advocate the in-
crease of production of cane and its
usage to provide power alcohol, dry ice,
drought fodder and other by-products.
U.S.A. makes 200,000,000 gallons of ma.
—equal in gallonage to Australia’s petrol
needs —from Cuban molasses and a vast
tonnage o! dry ice,
* * * *
“Toombul”: An ingenious young
woman turned up in a big Bris-
bane store the other day and asked
to have a watch charged to her
aunt. It was discovered that the
aunt had no account, but that somebody
else at the same address had. Later on,
the damsel returned and said that she
was the account-holder, remarking that'
her twin sister had called a few days
before about a watch. She carried off
her booty. A few more days, and there
was another appearance of the maiden,
now somebody’s niece. After book-
ing about £BO worth of goods, she
was asked to go to the office, but said
she must first see her mother, who was
outside. The police took a hand several
days later —16 charges of false pre-
tences. Not wishing to see her spend her
twenty-first birthday in gaol, a kindly
magistrate ordered her to enter into a
bond of £lO to come up for sentence,
and her widowed mother, poor woman,
is faced with the job of finding £45 to
make restitution.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mrs. Bill Buttner and Mrs. Firmin
McKinnon, aided by a chosen few,
ticketed and arranged the antiques
lent by collectors for the exhibition
which the Governor opened on August
10. There are some delightful pieces,
including a coffee-pot, rose-besprinkled,
and with a mask at the base of the spout,
which once belonged to George IV.’s
daughter Charlotte; and there is a
whisky tumbler, pottery, with the rubi-
cund face of William IV. on it. A goblet
from which Metternich drank a toast or
two, a sampler, dated 1810, a miracle of
stitchery done by a prim little miss of
10, pewter plates and jugs, and some
lovely snuffboxes also are on show.
The G.-G. and Lady Cowrie seemed
to like Queensland, and Queensland re-
ciprocated heartily. The Guides and
Scouts, assembled at their special request,
made a brave show. Lady Gowrie spoke
to the Brownies, who were gathered in
a ring, and to the Guides and Rangers,
who were drawn up on a glassy slope at
the side of the garden. Lord Gowrie in-
spected the Scouts and Cubs, and handed
over to Sir Leslie Wilson the silver wolf
which all good Scouts covet.
Joan Perry, the pretty daughter of the
Arthur Perrys, is engaged to Henry
Charles White, of Coolah, N.S.W., son
of Mr. and Mrs. Hunter White.
Lulu Rennie, who marries Redmond
O’Hara very soon, has been living in a
swirl of teas and bridge parties. Barbara
Sisley was hostess at one affair, and Kath-
leen McDonnell also threw a party, and
provided something unusual for the guest
of honor —a box made of the same
flowers that adorned the tables, with a
crystal sweet-dish inside.
Our German and Italian citizens rolled
up in full force for the first Rethberg-
Pinza concert, and sent so many flowers
up to the lady that she must have needed
at least two taxis to go home in. There
was a laurel wreath for Pinza, tied with
the Italian colors. The hall was crowded.
Mrs. Raymond Lambert was in the audi-
ence with Mrs. F. C. Freudenberg.
An attractive posy of wallflowers and
daffodils was handed to Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, who was the first State president
of the C.W.A. in Queensland, when the
metropolitan branch entertained her at
morning-tea on her return from the
northern trip.
Mary Lucas, just back from a trip
overseas, is much in request at tea and
supper parties these days. While she was
in Palestine she saw a race riot. And
on top of that she has a brand-
new engagement ring: Ivan Lindley,
son of the H. B. Lindleys, of Curra, is
the lucky man.
Hats off to Barbara Sisley, who made
a thoroughly artistic job of her produc-
tion of “Lady Precious Stream” for
Repertory. No curtains, imaginary
scenery and props—and one of the best
shows that Repertory ever has done.
Ailsa Krimmer (Precious Stream), Pat-
ricia Trace (Silver Stream) and Roy
Black (Dragon-General) all did excellent
work. Several Brisbane folk lent price-
less Mandarin coats for the show.
When the Journalists’ Ball committee
goes into session next year, the first
thing it should do is to enrol a body
of chuckers-out.
At this year’s show
there were over 1000
people, among them
a section that flung
food about, ruining
several good dance
frocks in the pro-
cess, and broke
bottles —which were
not their own prop-
erty. A few of
them were overcome
with nausea in the
ballroom. Journal-
ists, mostly hard-
working men with
wives and families
and neat suburban
homes, will be
blamed for all the
row and mess, and
most unjustly so.
The Constitutional
Club allowed its
wives and sisters and
other female rela-
tives into the sacred
precincts for the
annual at - home.
President Bruce
Shearer and his wife
received, and there
were bridge for the
sober-minded and
cheery round games
for the others. A
nice party.
University Women’s Club held its
annual at-home in the main hall of the
University, and, after a fine musical pro-
gramme, proceeded happily to enjoy a
“Personality” competition.
Glennie Old Girls’ and the Police balls
were on the same evening, so, after
dancing merrily at the first, and mur-
muring their greetings to official host
and hostess Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Bale,
lots of the energetic younger folk went
on to the Police Ball, where the Governor
was being curtsied to by a bunch of rosy-
cheeked debs.
There were no debs, at the Bankers’
Ball, but Madge Irving made her first
appearance unofficially, and was pre-
sented to the Governor and Miss Mar-
jorie Wilson. The affair was a big suc-
cess in every way, and the proceeds go
to the Crippled Children’s Home.


RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning- Arrester and Switch', 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6 -
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOVAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
feci
*
i
■
11
m
IS sM E t
Notice the
compactness of
this new Radi-
okes Kit-Set. No
space is wasted, yet
the chassis looks beauti-
fully balanced and neat.
Phenomenal Performance!
This is not just a mere advertising phrase—it is the considered judgment of Radiokes
after severe testing tinder actual working conditions in various localities.
The Radiokes Battery “Moneysaver” is the first receiver of its size, number of valves,
and low battery consumption capable of receiving short-wave and broadcast Signals
with the same power and sensitivity as a good six valve A.C. TYPE DUAL-WAVE
SUPERHETERODYNE. In fact, sensitivity, selectivity, tone and volume compare
favourably with the best of five and six valve A.C. dual-wave sets.
Advanced in Design
yet simple to assemble
Just look at the marvellous features of the “Money-
saver” Kit-Set:—
Iron-cored I.F. transformers — “Pi-wound” Litz high selectivity
coils—Latest Milliard metal clad, high gain battery valves- —■
“Colourvision” dial —Full automatic volume control—“ Wide
Range” “B” Class, audio transformer —Low battery consumption
—High selectivity—High gain.
Yet you can assemble this kit in a few hours. Send
the coupon NOW for full particulars, or order the
Radiokes Battery_ “Moneysaver” from your nearest radio
dealer. The price (not including valves, speaker and
batteries) is only £9/17/6.
Only £9-17-6
Complete to the very
smallest nm and bolt,
the Radiokes Kit-Set of
matched components costs
only £9/17/6, and the
only extras you need are
valves, speaker and bat-
teries.
Wonder 5-Valve
Dual-Wave Kit-Set
J~JERE’S the latest Radiokes Kit-Set
winner! The Battery “Money-
saver”—a wonderful 5-valve dual-wave
battery superheterodyne in Kit-Set
form, ready for anyone to assemble in
just a few hours. Easy-as-winking to
wire up—works perfectly from the
moment you connect the batteries . , .
and what a performance! Think of
the price, too—the complete Radiokes
Kit-Set costs only £9/17/6.
Build it Yourself!
No technical knowledge is required to
assemble this simple yet powerful Kit-Set.
You follow the simplified instructions which
are supplied with each Kit-Set. Taking
reasonable care, YOU CAN’T GO
WRONG. Radiokes engineers have already
wired up all the difficult bits, so that you
just connect the main components together.
If you have the least shadow of doubt that
you cannot assemble this remarkable
Radiokes Kit-Set, post the coupon below.
We will send you absolutely free a big,
beautifully-produced instructions booklet
which shows you just how amazingly simple
it is to put the Kit-Set together, and also
gives you full particulars of the battery
“Moneysaver.” If you are interested in the
all-electric version of the “Moneysaver,”
mark the coupon, and a special free 8-page
booklet will be sent you, post free. But
send the coupon NOW, for the demand for
these booklets is tremendous, and supplies
are limited. Fill in the coupon now—post
it TO-DAY!
RADIOKES
BATTERY DUAL WAVE #
MONEY SAVER VvT'SW
FREE Booklet—Send This Coupon
RADIOKES, LTD., Box 10, P. 0., REiDFERN, N.S.W.
Please send me, post free, FREE BOOKLET describing
tbe “Moneysaver” Battery Kit-Set.
“Moneysaver” A.C. Kit-Set.
(Strike out one not wanted.)
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin 12/8/’36.
I
RADIO NEWS
RADIOKES DUAL-WAVE BATTERY MONEYSAVER
RKS-8B.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
'“PHIS new Radiokes kit-set represents a very definite step
1 forward in battery-set design for the home constructor.
The vast improvements made during the last year or two to
tuning coils and I.F. transformers, and the advent of new high-
gain Mullard and Philips battery valves, have provided Radi-
okes ’ engineers with the material needed as a basis for this
particularly efficient receiver. Radiokes claim this battery dual-
wave Moneysaver to be the first receiver of its size, number
of valves and low battery consumption capable of receiving
short-wave and broadcast signals with the same power and
sensitivity as a good A.C. type dual-wave superheterodyne.
In action, the sensitivity, selectivity, tone and volume compare
favorably with the best five-valve A.C. dual-wave sets.
Valves.
The new high-gain Mullard or Philips
metal-clad valves, equipped with the uni-
versal “P” bases, are used. They are
types KK2, octode converter ; KF3, I.F.
amplifier; KBCI, duo diode triode de-
tector, A.V.C. and amplifier ; KC3, driver
valve; KDDI, Class-B output. The two
last-mentioned valves provide excep-
tionally high audio amplification and
good tonal quality.
If the constructor should desire to
take full advantage of the wide-range
audio transformer supplied, and does not
mind sacrificing some audio amplifica-
tion, a 30 driver valve and a 19 Class-B
output valve can be substituted for the
KC3 and KDDI. The resultant fidelity is
very good, but the current consumption
rises from approximately lima, to 15ma.
or 16ma.
The Circuit Arrangement.
The converter stage uses the new P
base KK2 octode. This valve is similar
to the earlier converters of similar type,
but embodies several improvements
which add to the performance.
Iron-cored I.F. Transformers.
The single high-gain, iron-cored I.F.
amplifier is to a great extent responsible
for the exceptionally high sensitivity and
selectivity of the new Moneysaver, which
seems to possess an uncanny ability to
receive stations that many seven- and
eight-valve sets would have difficulty in
picking out. Bulletin readers should be
quite familiar by now with the advan-
tages of modern iron cores.
The new variable-Mu KF3 is used, in
the I.F. amplifier.
Independent A.V.C. and diode detec-
tion, together with high audio gain and
good fidelity, are provided by the P base
KBCI, working in conjunction with a
KC3 driver and KDDI Class-B output
valve. This latter valve has a maximum
power output of nearly two watts. It is
the high power output available and the
excellence of the new AFB audio trans-
former that provide the good tone and
high volume.
Doublet Aerial and Pick-up.
Provision is made for using a doublet
aerial with transposed lead-in, and pick-
up terminals are also provided. Both
additions are provided for by the two
sets of three terminals mounted on the
rear wall of the chassis.
With an ordinary L-type aerial, ter-
minal 2 is connected to 3, the earth
terminal, with a shorting bar (see wiring
sketch) and the aerial taken to terminal 1.
If a doublet is used the shorting bar is
removed and the transposed leads taken
to terminals 1 and 2.
With regard to the pick-up terminals,
for radio reception terminals 1 and 2 are
shorted. When the pick-up is brought
into use it is connected between ter-
minals 2 and 3 and the shorting bar re-
moved to prevent stations breaking
through.
Other Components.
The dual-wave coils (type DWC) are
of entirely new pattern, the broadcast
coils being of “Pi-wound” Litz high-
selectivity design, wound on the same
tube (ground to size) as the short-wave
coils, which are space-wound in machine
threads and have interwound primaries.
These new coils provide vastly improved
selectivity and sensitivity and, what is
just as important, definitely correct track-
ing and alignment.
The padder condenser for broadcast,
although variable, is pre-set at the fac-
tory to the correct capacity and needs
very little, if any, adjustment.
The two-gang condenser is a Strom-
berg-Carlson type F. The new patented
construction makes it over 90 p.c. non-
microphonic.
The iron-cored transformers are the
new type SIC-4658 multi-strand Litz-
wound high-gain units, with square
shield-cans.
The element in the Stackpole volume
control is of solid moulded carbon, and
the mechanism provides perfect contact
and even variation.
Erie moulded carbon resistors are sup-
plied.
The wave-change switch is the new
Stromberg-Carlson product. Each bank
has three sections of three contacts, each
mounted on a special low-loss stamping
material. The contacts are silver-plated.
The Colorvision aero dial is calibrated
in metres for both wave-bands and has
automatic color switching. When tuned
to the broadcast band the broadcast
scale is illuminated in green ; when the
wave-change switch is turned to short-
wave the green fades out and the short-
wave scale is illuminated in red. The
principal Australian stations and the
international wave-bands are clearly
indicated.
The speaker chosen by the designers
is an Amplion Star type 05, supplied
with a TAM transformer, giving correct
matching for the KDDI valve. The same
speaker matches the 19 valve.
Lewcos multi-strand Litz wire is used
for both I.F. coils and “Pi-wound”
broadcast coils, as this is true Litz wire,
twisted for highest efficiency.
The chassis, made by Acorn Pressed
Metal Co., is of 18-gauge steel.
Apart from the carbon resistors, con-
densers, spring terminals, power plug
and socket, the remaining components,
trimmer condensers, Isolantite padder,
voltage divider and wire-wound resistors
are all products of well-established
quality.
Most of the condensers and resistors
are mounted on a bakelite panel for neat
appearance, and to avoid the danger of
short-circuits that is always present when
resistors are mounted haphazardly.
Parts List RKS-BB —Five-valve Simplified
Battery Moneysaver.
One Acorn RKS-8B chassis (sprayed).
One Stromberg-Carlson two-plank switch
(special), same as RKS-8.
One Radiokes DW aerial coil in can.
One Radiokes DW oscillator coil in can.
Two Radiokes SIC-4658 I.F. transformers
(Nos. 1 and 2).
One Radiokes AFB audio transformer.
One Radiokes DC-1 Colorvision dial.
Resistors, etc.
Three Erie 1-meg. resistors.
One Erie .5-meg. resistor.
Two Erie .1-meg. resistors.
One Erie .05-meg. resistor.
One Stackpole ,5-meg. volume control, with
switch.
One Radiokes 20,000-ohm volume control (sen-
sitivity control), with insulating washers.
Condensers.
One Stromberg-Carlson two-gang condenser,
type F, without trimmers.
Two Radiokes two-gang MEC trimmers, with-
out mounting holes.
One Chanex .smfd. condenser.
Three Chanex .Imfd. condensers.
One Chanex .Olmfd. condenser.
Two Chanex .00Imfd. condensers.
One Chanex ,02mfd. condenser.
One T.C.C. .005mfd. mica condenser.
Two T.C.C. .000Imfd. mica condensers.
One Radiokes seven-plate padder (peaked on
oscillator).
Sockets.
Five Milliard P sockets (must be numbered).
One Emmco four-pin socket.
One Emmco seven-pin socket (small).
One Peerless seven-pin plug.


J
ADIOTRON
The Importance of Good Valves
The most vital part of a broadcast receiver is its valve equipment. No Radio
can give good performance without good valves. Radiotrons conform to
the world's highest standards in design, material, construction and perform-
ance. See that your set is equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-149 Queen Street, Melbourne
RADIOTRONS
fAdvertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Ltd.]
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Sundries.
Four Radiokes knobs (John Carr and Co.I.
One Radiokes T-33 panel completely wired,
with pillars H-in.
Six Dalton bakeli'te terminals (two red, four
black).
Three large grid clips.
Four Osram 2.5-volt pea lamps.
One yard Lewcos copper braiding.
Five yards Lewcos hook-up wire.
Three yards Lewcos 16-gauge tinned copper
wire.
One yard Lewcos seven-way battery cable.
Fifteen fin. x |in. R.FT brass screws.
Twelve lin. x -jin. R.H. brass screws.
Two fin. x Fn. R.H. brass screws.
Three +n. x 4in. brass spacers with -Jin. hole.
Thirty iin. hex. nuts.
Twelve lockwashers, iin. hole.
Twelve solder lugs, plain single end.
Three yards 2mil. spaghetti.
Valves Required.
Milliard or Philips: One KK2, one KF3, one
KBCI, one KC3, one KDDI.
Speaker Required.
Amplion: Permag. Transformer to suit KDDI
valve.
Batteries Required.
Diamond; Three 45-volt heavy-duty or triple-
duty, each tapped at 22\\. ; one 4+volt C
battery, tapped at 3v.
One two-volt 100 amp.-hour accumulator.
Assembly and Wiring.
Before assembling the receiver, inspect
all parts for correct values and for any
possible breakages or damage of any
kind. Inspect the resistor-panel wiring
and the value of the components mounted
to see that the details coincide with the
diagram.
Constructional Notes.
On the KF3 and KBCI lugs Nos. 3 and 4
are connected together for convenience only.
Also lugs No. 7 and 4on KK2 socket. Lug
No. 4 is a dummy connection on all these
sockets.
On the KC3 socket lugs Nos. 7 and 8 may
be connected together, thus making it possible
to use a KL4 pentode (triode connection) as a
driver valve. The bias should be 9v. on the
KL4. With the KL4 driver it is preferable to
use a 19 in the output.
Commence by mounting all sockets and ter-
minals on the chassis (note positions of sockets
in the diagram). Connect No. 3, terminals
together with tinned copper wire (earth and
pick-up). Wire together lug No. 2 on all
sockets, using 16-gauge tinned copper. On
KK2, KF3, KBCI and KC3 sockets connect
the No. I’s to the No. 3’s with 16-gauge tinned
copper wire (see diagram). Following this, the
No. 3 lugs of all sockets (P type) should be
wired together, using hook-up wire.
All other components, except the resistor
panel, gang and dual-wave switch should be
mounted on the chassis and the wiring pro-
ceeded with. Connect a 16-gauge tinned copper
earth lead to the various earthed points. This
lead includes negative side of the filament
wiring (already wired). The lead is taken
from the lead between the No. 3 terminals and
connected to the filament negative lead (see dia-
gram). The moving plate of the seven-plate
padder is soldered to earth at the KC3 socket
No. 1. The earth lead is continued from the
KC3 socket along the chassis to one outside
lug of the sensitivity control, and from there
to one of the switch lugs on the volume con-
trol. This earth lead should be soldered to the
chassis at various points along its length, the
method used being to solder lugs under mount-
ing screws near the lead.
The main wiring of the set may now be
started, commencing at the KDDI socket,
working around the chassis and ending at the
coils and switch. The following in-
structions should be used in con-
junction with the wiring diagram.
Wiring.
Wiring of KDDI valve
(use hook-up wire). —No.
5 to No. 3 of speaker
socket (keep clear of
grid leads); No. 6 to
G on audio trans-
former : No. 7 to
remaining G on
audio transformer.
F on the audio trans-
former connects to earth;
No. 8 to No. 2 on the speaker
socket. Nos. 1 and 4 of speaker
connect to B+ on audio transformer
and also to +135 lug on battery socket.
Wiring of KC3 socket. —No. 6 to B on
panel (leave lead 3in. long); Nos. 7 and 8 to
P on the audio transformer.
Wiring of KBCI socket. —No. 3 to A+2V
on battery socket; No. 5 to white 465 No. 2
(I.F. transformer); to No. 6 solder a lead about
4in. long; to No. 8 solder a lead about 3in.
long; connect a .OOlmfd. condenser between
No. 5 and No. 6.
Connections to I.F. transformer No. 2 (465
No. 2). —White to No. 5 KBCI socket; black
to No. 1 pick-up terminal; red to No. 7
KF3 socket; green to No. 8 KF3.
Wiring of KF3 socket. —No. 7: A ,smfd.
condenser is connected to this llig; the other end
of the condenser solders to the earth lead. No.
7 also connects to +135 on the battery socket.
Wiring of battery socket and pick-up ter-
minals. —Connect pick-up terminal No. 1 to
one outside tug of the volume control (see dia-
gram). Leave enough slack in this lead to
clear the resistor panel when it is mounted.
Pick-up terminal No. 2 to A+ on battery
socket.
Battery socket. —A , B—, C+ to uncon-
nected lug of switch on the volume control
(leave lead long enough to clear panel when
mounted; approximately 12in.); —3V, solder a
lead about 4in. long; -41 V, solder a lead
about 4in. long; 90V to No. 7 KK2 socket.
(To be concluded next week.)
RADIOKES
Battery
DUAL-WAVE
MONEYS AVER
BATTERY CONNECTIONS.
Owing to the principle of switching
in this receiver, it is imperative "that
no alteration be made to the set
without first removing the battery
plug entirely from the set. To abso-
lutely safeguard against possible
blowouts a 2.5-volt pea lamp should
be connected between B— of the B
batteries and the A—, B—, C+ lead
of battery cable. If anything should
be amiss, the pea lamp and not
the valves will “blow.”
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Amateur Radio
Club.
This popular club announces the in-
tention of holding another “Hamfest”
this year—on September 26 and 27. The
initial occasion in 1935 was responsible
for an attendance of 80, and, judging by
requests, the number should be well ex-
ceeded this year. Details may be obtained
from the hon. sec., R. Glassop (VK2RF),
Sun Buildings, Hunter-street, Newcastle.
What’s What in Radio.
Poland believes in the feminine touch,
for at most of the Polish stations women
are replacing men, not only as an-
nouncers, but as heads of departments.
In several instances they hold respon-
sible positions on the engineering and
other technical staffs.
Hs ❖ %
Austrian radio manufacturers do not
intend to permit second-hand or out-of-
date receivers taken in part payment for
new models to go into the market again.
Over IGOO obsolete receivers were re-
cently crushed in a hydraulic press in
Vienna.
$ * * *
The 8.8. C. has printed a color code
for the use of artists who will appear in
the television programmes at Alexandra
Palace, There are three shades or tones
available, light, medium and dark, and
into these all the colors of the rainbow
must be accommodated. Colors register-
ing as white, or nearly so, include all pale
shades, orange, red and the lighter
browns. The dark browns, greens and
purples come out grey, while nearly all
blues, except very light tints, appear
black, or nearly so, on the television
screen. Artists will be impressed with
the necessity of wearing “contrasting”
clothes with bold patterns.
* * * *
“R.F.”: The latest wonder performed
by radio is rat extermination. Was called
in to service a big set that the owner had
left on the previous evening whilst he
and family went to the movies. On re-
turning, it was noticed that smoke was
curling up through the chassis and
“smelling funny like.” Took the chassis
out of the cabinet, turned it over and
discovered a medium-size rat with head
caught under the heavy filament wiring
and hindquarters securely gummed to
the 80 rectifier socket, quite dead. Much
juice had oozed out of the burning trans-
former on to the wiring, and the near-by
parts and the tufts of hair here and there
testified to the rat’s struggles ere he gave
up.
The Q. and A. Column.
I wish to build a communications-type re-
ceiver, and, having plenty of experience, con-
template a rather ambitious type. (1) Is band-
spread by the use of a separate gang of less
capacity, in parallel with the main gang, pref-
erable to the bandspread dial method ? (2)
Out of one of two tables written please select
the valve combination you prefer for maximum
gain and selectivity ?
(1) Not for any other reason than conveni-
ence. A bandspread dial achieves just the
same effect, if it is a genuine speed-reduction
dial, and the use of an extra and smaller
gang in parallel actually introduces some loss.
This is not noticeable, but it is naturally there.
Therefore, if a good bandspread dial is avail-
able. use this. (2) One R.F. stage should be
ample to reduce images, particularly with re-
generation. The combination of E, G and H
is preferred.


“SILVER
EDGE"
{RfuAo&tt,
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Befaco Ltd,, London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, l/ict
o
K)fohe$ wtuhe- • •
ACCURACY «' VITAl
Accuracy in tyre pressures is vital. It is a safe-
guard against excessive and uneven tyre wear,
and provides comfort and protection for you on the road. But only
an ACCURATE tyre gauge can assure you accurate pressures. Cheap
gauges save you a shilling or two, . but may lose you pounds in
tyre wear alone.
Put your trust in a KISMET for unvarying truth at every reading—
4 Qauqe is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading
KISMET
TYRE *
GAUGE
In lib. units on wide, flat surfaces. Handsomely
finished in plated metals' and complete in a
leather wallet 8/6
Sole Manufacturers: WIXDIAM TURNER
AND BROS., DTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
m
%
cjS*
The Steering Column.
VAUXHALL BX DESIGNED FOR
LONG LIFE AND DEPENDABILITY.
RESULTS OF TESTS OVER “BULLETIN” COURSE.
BY FRED BERRY.
j\/I OTORISTS of the older school, particularly those with
sporting proclivities, have been accustomed to coupling
the name of Vauxhall with speed and high-quality performance.
No doubt these qualities have in the past years been responsible.
Boyd Edkins, after whom the present N.S.W. distributing co. is
named, was a household word throughout the Commonwealth
owing to the many records broken and competitions won by
Vauxhalls, which he represented.
The new Vauxhalls, however, of which the BX is a character-
istic type, are designed essentially to satisfy the demands of the
non-competitive driver, the object being to build a robust car
having a road performance suitable to the majority of users and
in which long life of wearing parts, freedom from petty service
worries and comfortable riding qualities are the essential features.
The six-cylinder engine has an R.A.C.
rating of 26.3 h.p., but is of low-speed
design, and gives 64 b.h.p. at 2800 r.p.m.
Bore 3 5-16 in. and stroke 3|in. give a
piston displacement of 194 cub. in. Com-
pression ratio is 5.625 to 1. Cylinders
are cast en bloc, integral with the upper
half of the crankcase. The detachable
cylinder head is of the non-detonating
type. The sump is of pressed steel, with
provision for draining lubricating oil.
The unit-constructed engine and gearbox
is mounted in the chassis at four points
on live-rubber cushions.
Pistons are cast-iron, each having three
rings located above gudgeon pin. The
two upper rings are compression type,
the lower ring oil regulating,
with seating in groove drilled
for oil return. Gudgeon pins
are hardened nickel steel, hollow
and reinforced at centre. Con-
necting rods are locked in the
little end, piston boss being
bronze bushed.
Connecting rods are of forged
steel, I-beam section, with white-
metal bearings bonded directly
to the rod with pure tin. The
big-end bearing is drilled to pro-
vide a jet of oil to the cylinder
bores each crankshaft revolu-
tion.
The crankshaft runs on four
interchangeable steel -backed
babbitt-lined bearings, and is
balanced statically and dynami-
cally. Torsional vibration is
eliminated by fitting a friction-
type damper, incorporated in
the fan pulley on the front
end of the shaft. To avoid movement
the upper bearings are dowelled in
the crankcase, and lower bearings are
dowelled in the cap.
The camshaft runs on three cast-iron
bearings, and the front bearing is lined
with white metal, the thrust being taken
on a bronze plate forward of the front
bearing.
Timing drive is through a duplex silent
roller chain. Crankshaft pulley is steel,
camshaft pulley is cast-iron, both
plainly marked for reassembly after over-
haul.
Overhead valves are fitted, inlet and
exhaust interchangeable, of silichrome
steel. The valves are located in remov-
able cast-iron guides and operated by
overhead steel rocker arms and push
rods. Rocker arms are adjustable for
clearance, the adjusting screw being fitted
in the rocker arm.
Valve springs are of single helical type,
located on valve stems by cotters. The
rocker shaft is formed in three sections
and rigidly supported on six brackets.
The shaft is hollow, supplying actuating
gear with pressure lubrication. The
entire valve gear is enclosed by a pressed-
Vauxhall BX (short wheelbase) four-door sedan, with built-in luggage trunk,
tested over “Bulletin” course.
steel cover. Tappet clearances, both
inlet and exhaust, are 8 thou. hot.
An A.C, fuel pump mounted on the
right side of the motor is driven from
the camshaft and draws fuel from a 12-
gallon tank at rear to a new-type Zenith
downdraught carburettor, equipped with
combined air-cleaner, silencer and flame-
arrestor. Choke and throttle are inter-
connected, which, together with the
special design of the choke flap, ensures
easy starting from cold. The inlet mani-
fold, of cast-iron, is of the three-port
type, each section feeding two cylinders,
A hot-spot with vaporising plate,
heated by exhaust gases, is located in
the centre of the manifold. The ex-
haust manifold is of the four-port type,
the exhaust pipe and silencer being sus-
pended from the chassis by flexible
brackets.
Water is circu-
lated round the
cylinders by an im-
pellor-type pump
located on the front
of the block. Ther-
mostatic heat con-
trol is introduced,
the unit being
placed at the junc-
tion of radiator
pipe and header
tank.
The radiator is
of the characteris-
tic Vauxhall V
type, with copper
core and chrome-
plated shell.
Lubrication is of
full force-feed type,
oil being drawn
by a submerged
gear pump from the sump and fed
to the main bearings through holes
drilled in the crankshaft. Drilled pas-
sages in the crankcase casting feed the
camshaft bearings, and a vertical
pipe from each of the camshaft bearings
carries oil under pressure to the valve
rocker gear. Overflow pipes are fitted
to relieve excess pressure in the rocker
shaft.
A spring-loaded relief valve is fitted
in the line, also an A.C. cartridge-type
oil filter and purifier. An effective
crankcase ventilation system is incor-
porated in the sump, air being drawn
through the filter pipe and, after collect-
ing vapors, ejected through a vent below
the undershield.
The electrical system is 12 volt, of
separate-unit type. The generator, driven
by a' belt from the crankshaft pulley,
is of the third-brush type, and a control
switch fitted on dash allows any of three
charging rates to be used.
The starter motor, mounted on a
flange in front of the flywheel housing,
is fitted with a Lucas drive pinion, and
is brought into operation by pressing the
accelerator pedal after turning on
ignition switch,
Right-hand side of unit-constructed engine and gearbox,
showing (1) oil filter cap, (3) thermostat by-pass, (5) petrol
pump, (11) starter motor, (12) pedomatic starter control, (13)
distributor, with vacuum control and micrometer adjustment,
(14) valve-gear cover.
Ignition is by coil and battery, firing
order being 1-5-3-6-2-4. The distributor
is driven in tandem with the oil pump,
and is equipped with combined vacuum-
and governor-controlled automatic spark
advance, as well as a micrometer adjust-
ment manually controlled to suit different
fuels. The range of automatic ignition
is 40deg. Spark plug gap is 20-25 thou. ;
contact breaker gap, 10-12 thou. Plugs
are 14mm. Pyrox.
A five-way fusebox mounted
on the dash protects the main
circuits. Spare fuses are sup-
plied as standard.
Transmission is through a
single-plate dry-disc clutch 9in.
in diameter, the thrust bearing
being of graphite composition,
to a four-speed-and-reverse cen-
tral-change gearbox. Third gear
is silent synchromesh, and
pinions are helical cut for quiet
operation. Gear ratios are:
Top, direct; third, 1.5 to 1 ;
second, 2.2 to 1; first, 3.2 to 1;
reverse, 3.7 to 1.
Final drive is through an open
tubular propeller shaft, employ-
ing two Hardy-Spicer fully en-
closed needle-bearing type uni-
versal joints. A grease-gun
nipple is provided for lubricat-
ing the spline shaft. The rear
axle is semi-floating in a one-
piece pressed-steel banjo housing, insu-
lated from the springs by rubber pads.
Crown wheel and pinion are spiral bevel.
Final reduction is 4.11 to 1, giving a
road speed of 19.95 m.p.h. per 1000
revs, in top gear.
The frame is of pressed steel, channel
section, with cross members. Springs
are semi-elliptic, front and rear, with
single-acting shock-absorbers. Rubber
buffers are fitted to all springs. Front
springs are anchored at front of frame.
Wheelbase of the BX model (as tested)
is lllin. The BXL model, with identical


USEFUL DATA ON
VAUXHALL BX.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top in 9 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h.
in third in 6 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
second in 4 4-5 seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft.
Sin.
Maximum speed, 70.86 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 22 m.p.g.
ENGINE TROUBLES /
-install netV Champions
(Induce
It is false economy to keep sparking plugs
in your engine too long. They become fouled
their sparks are weak and result in
carbon formation and your engine be-
comes sluggish and expensive to operate,
Practise HEAL economy. Install new
Champions once every year.
CP"
m
-m-
w
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE iN WINDSOR. CANADA • • -AN EMPIRE PRODUCT •
Wltjjr
% V
-#•
■■• %.
V
r PHE famous Airship, “Graf
■*■ Zeppelin,” has flown over a
million miles, and every one
of them on VEEDOL. Over
raging seas through Arctic
and Torrid regions through
electrical storms this famous
Airship, carrying throughout
her career thousands of
passengers and valuable
merchandise, has never
once been held up by lubri-
cating troubles. Truly a
wonderful achievement, and
in no small measure due to
the outstanding lubricating
qualities of the world’s finest
OiI—VEEDOL MOTOR OIL.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED • ALLSTATES
mechanical specification, but designed
for a seven-seater body, has a wheelbase
of 130 in.
All points of lubrication on the chassis
are supplied with oil from the Luvax
Rear brake, assembly : (1) Trailing shoe,
(2) shoe guide, (3) axle flange, (4) wheel-
adjusting bolts, (5) and (6) leading shoe
linkage, (7) leading shoe, (8) return
spring, (9) shoe-operating cam.
Bijur fully automatic system, the oil
container being mounted on the engine
side of the dash. The system requires
no attention beyond maintaining a con-
stant level in the container, as it is oper-
ated by engine suction, being coupled
to the intake manifold.
The vacuum in the manifold operates,
through a diaphragm, a small pump ; and
a regulator is provided to maintain the
quantity delivered within predetermined
limits.
Service brakes are of semi-servo two-
shoe type, mechanically operated, internal
expanding on front and rear wheels. The
hand brake operates the same shoes
through independent linkage to a cross
shaft. Brakes are operated by cables
which are enclosed and taken back inside
frame members.
Steering is of Marles-Weller cam-and-
lever type, with provision for adjustment
Steering box, with cover plate removed,
showing robust and simple cam and lever
movement.
of end play and clearance of rocker
shaft. Reduction ratio in gearbox is
12.6 to 1.
Bodywork, by Holden’s, is neatly
finished, the hardware being of good
quality. No-draught ventilation is pro-
vided in front and rear quarter windows.
The windscreen, of non-shatterable glass,
is equipped with dual wipers hinged at
the top.
Six instruments are neatly arranged in
a pressed panel on the dash, and the
tool kit includes a jack for attachment
to spring pads and an inspection lamp
with a lead of sufficient length to ex-
amine any portion of the car.
The car tested, a BX series four-door
sedan, was driven by H. Poulton, of
Boyded, Ltd., N.S.W. distributors.
Speedometer reading was 2542 miles,
and together with driver, passenger and
full fuel tank the car weighed 34-jcwt.
(Registered weight 31cwt.)
The motor had been thoroughly run
in and was quiet in operation. First im-
pressions in driving through city traffic
were the solid type of riding comfort,
due, no doubt, to sturdy construction,
and, by reason of the high geared steer-
ing, the manner in which the car could
be driven round acute bends without
“winding up” the steering wheel —a most
important factor in an emergency.
On the open road the car cruised
comfortably at 45 m.p.h., and in a test
of coasting from 15 m.p.h rolled 700
yards. Maximum speed clocked over a
measured mile with flying start was
70.86 m.p.h., the time taken being
50 4-ssec. Over the rough country sec-
tion through Grose Vale suspension and
steering were satisfactory, and in the
timed climb of 2 1-5 miles of Kurrajong
Mountain, taking 3min. 47sec., the car
held tfie many difficult corners well at
Lower section of distributor head: (1)
Rotor, (2) contact breaker adjustment,
(3) breaker points, (4) return spring, (5)
micrometer adjustment, (6) vacuum con-
trol, (7) connection to intake, (8) con-
denser.
speed. Second, third and top gears were
used.
Returning down the mountain the emer-
gency braking equipment was tested with
satisfactory results, and en route to
Penrith further performance tests were
made.
Slow running in top gear over 350
yards took 2min. 15sec., averaging 5.3
m.p.h. This was followed immediately
by 350 yards accelerated in top, taking
19 l-ssec. and crossing the finishing line
at 55 m.p.h.; average, 37.5 m.p.h.
From 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top was
clocked in 9sec.; 10 to 30 m.p.h. in third,
6sec.; 10 to 30 in second, 4 4-ssec. These
times must be considered satisfactory
when power-weight ratio of the car is
taken into consideration.
The service braking equipment proved
highly efficient, stopping the car with-
out swerving in 21ft. 9in. from 25 m.p.h.
Over the journey of 116 miles s|gal.
of petrol was used, giving an average of
22 m.p.g. (38.2 ton miles), the average
speed, inclusive of all tests, being 35.7
m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
E.N.T. (Moss Vale, N.S.W.). —My ’36 model
six-cylinder sedan (11,000 miles) was recently
overhauled, combustion chamber decarbonised,
valves ground, pistons drawn and rings cleaned.
Previously oil consumption was at the rate of
2000 m.p.g.; now, although the engine pulls
as well os ever, the rate is 500 m.p.g. Does
this indicate rapid wear, and must the motor be
rebored ?
Cylinder wear is not the only cause of smoky
exhaust and excessive oil consumption. Had
you not disturbed the rings the accumulation
of carbon would have maintained a reason-
ably good oil seal. This carbon having been
rpmnvpH rinoc havp Hpcnm to work" in the
Grooves and to numn oil into the combustion
chamber. Suggest putting a micrometer over
the bores to check wear before reboring. If
wear is not excessive have the grooves re-
mned and fit ov?S rSfgs "
. . , , ...
T r rf" ■, . * \y \ "r , .i ■
. FJL.B. (Brighton, Vic.).— i have driven my
33 six-cylinder sedan 28,000 miles in freewheel
position. The dashboard control is supposed to
give fixed gear as well as freewheel, and now,
as my brakes are weak, I desire to use fixed
gear, but it will not go in. What’s wrong ?
The push-pull control on the dash is con-
nected to the freewheel mechanism by a
Bowden-wire. Ir this has stretched after long
use it will account for the difficulty. Any
service station will make an adjustment.
* * * *
P.L. (Hamilton, Vic.). —Although several
attempts have been made to adjust the car-
burettor of my ’36 model car to idle slowly
results have been unsatisfactory. Each time an
alteration is made idling is good for a day or
so, then the engine races when the foot is
taken off the accelerator. Why ?
This is a frequent trouble with downdraught
carburettors and is due to the sticking of the
cam actuating the idling adjustment. Slow idling
depends on this gear and the levers connected
thereto being in perfect alignment. If they
cannot be properly aligned fit a stronger return
spring.
* * . ! '
A.K. (Goulburn, N.S.W.).— Driving during
cold weather lately I have noticed oil pressure
much higher than is recommended. Is this im-
portant, and will it damage the motor ?
In most engines it is_ advisable to use dinei-
ent grades of lubricating oil for winter and
summer driving. .Theusenowof summer grade
would cause a use in If this is not
tlie case, check the oil-piessure iclease <
’, ~ , , n
N S (Toowoomba SirS JlvVaZ
CQ! ntllcs) IIOS OCCIt StCClCilly lOSlltg its
Punch. A month ago the engine was com-
lately overhauled and is now in food-as-new
mechanical order. Sti i Ul find d necessy to
use middle gear for many lulls the cm has
previously romped over top. Any
tions ?
If new rings have been fitted it is possible
th have not been thoroughly run in.
After SQO mjl should power still be below
norma j remo ve the air-cleaner, wash it and
rcp ] ace anc i j n addition clean carbon out of
m uffler and exhaust line.
* * * *
q p (Longreach, Q.),—/ want to improve
d and pidliny a f my >35 mo del 14 -h.p. car,
(md have been j„f orme d that by planing about
2-32 in. off the head and removing the counter-
balance weights fixed to big-end caps the motor
will deliver much greater power. Is there any-
thing against the idea, and, if improvement is
so simple, why are so many cars designed like
mine ?
Planing 3-32 in. off the cylinder head is an
extremely risky operation, as it leaves very
little metal around water passages and is liable
to cause distortion. The improvement in speed
would be problematic, and pulling would cer-
tainly be worse than in the standard motor,
Removal of weights on bearing caps would only
serve to promote vibration, without any com-
pensating advantage.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Nothung”: “Ayeff” (B. 8/7/’36) was
lucky to get out of a bog for ss. At
every place I’ve been stuck at by water
or mud it’s cost me the best part of a
quid. Wet-weather haulage is a regular
profession in Queensland. A man bought
a tractor and had it paid for in one wet
season by haulage charges over a hun-
dred yards of impassable mud.
* * * *
“Koi-Hai”; As a N. S. Welshman I
hotly refute “A. Sidley’s” claim (B.
8/7/’36) that corrugated roads are
peculiarly and solely a Victorian achieve-
ment. I have rattled over many very fine
examples in N.S.W., and, not to go too
far afield, nominate the 12 miles from
Penrith to Wailacia as equal to anything
that Vic, can produce. Whenever I make
this trip in my 1926 “Bangphut” I remove
my dental plates at Penrith and restore
them on reaching Wailacia. As to the
cause of these beautiful corrugations, I
would suggest that “A. Sidley” closely
observe the next road-roller he sees at
work. As it puffs and jolts its way over
the bed of broken stone which, duly
masticated, is to form a macadamised
roadway he will notice that the stone
flows for some inches along in front of
the rolling drum. It piles up like a
wave until the friction produced by the
interlocking stones will not allow it to
flow. The roller then climbs over the
“wave,” and with an extra grunt and a
hard jolt goes serenely on its way repeat-
ing the process. As the whole road-sur-
face is eventually rolled flat, it is clear
that wherever these piles or “waves”
have been forced into the road-bed there
must be hard, severely-compacted lines
below the surface. It then becomes a
case of the “survival of the fittest.”
Under the motorists’ wheels, the com-
paratively soft streaks pulverise first, the
resultant dust being blown away or
swallowed. The hard streaks survive to be
later cursed as corrugations. Uniformity
of size of stone, uniformity of crushing
weight of roller and uniform conditions
and behavior of everything else are what
gives a corrugated highway the sym-
metrical and exact undulations “A. Sid-
ley” so admires.


“THE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”"
know definitely what volume of publicity '
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable- Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News,»Etd., North, Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON —P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4. I
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LiE'l'
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
“The Examiner,” established 1842, is the
oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and
yet is still the most modern paper in the
state. It circulates everywhere in the
North—the home of two-thirds of the
population of Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates
of “The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from:
ibc
(hammer
LAUNCESTON
EST. 1842
yl^jcr'uujvy
'jbcuZy
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St M Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands anil
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of AV.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
. 'Y°u’d better give me the money,
Jill!” The pain in his voice accused
her before us all.
Jill gave a little, quite undramatic
moan, and got them out. She put the
bits of folded paper in Richard’s hand,
slipping past Agatha’s clutch to do it.
Richard turned them over slowly.
“Jill! I can’t believe even now”
But his voice told us that he could.
“Why can’t you?” Agatha’s voice was
shrill. “Twenty pounds was stolen, and
she, who professed to be so hard up,
claims to have had just that sum. I’ve
found your thief for you.”
Aunt Helen looked ten years older than
before we started to play that wretched
game.
“Jill,” she said, “I can’t help it. It’s
obvious. You must have taken it. You
were the one nearest Mrs. Frencham
when the lights went up. I saw you.
Give her the notes, and perhaps every-
one will be generous enough to try to for-
get the whole unhappy business. You’d
like to go? I’ll ring Harlow for a car.”
Jill’s small body was rigid with anger.
“I can prove they are mine. Mrs.
Frencham, do you know the numbers of
your notes?”
“No,” said Agatha at last.
“Look at them, Richard. One number
is” She rattled off a string of figures.
“And the other”
Richard looked at the notes and at
Jill, and away from her, quickly.
“I admit you know the numbers.”
Jill kept her temper in check.
“Then turn one over. On the other
side, top right-hand corner, is a small
round blob made with indelible pencil.
Right?”
“Yes,” said Richard unwillingly.
“Then tell me, any one of you, how
could I have learned those numbers and
marked that one since I stole them, sup-
posing I had?”
■ Simon gave a barking laugh, very like
a fox’s.
“Look!” He held up the pencil Jill
had dropped on the piano after drawing
the cross on the murder paper. It was
indelible.
THEN Aunt Helen’s natural dignity and
commonsense saved the situation.
“Do you know,” she said, “I have a
feeling that we’ll find Mrs. Frencham’s
money dropped somewhere about the
room in the scuffle. Give those notes
back to Jill, Richard—of course they’re
hers —and ask Mrs. Frencham to accept
your cheque for the same amount. And
when it’s found we’ll keep hers. It was
lost in our house.”
Richard nodded and played up to her
well.
“Good idea, mother! Excellent!. Will
you, Mrs. Frencham?”
“Yes,” said Agatha instantly. “That’s
fair enough.” And then the fool hadn't
sense enough to let well alone.
“And since the murderer didn’t do it
there’s no harm in telling who it was
that murdered me. Was it you?” Her
greeny eyes went to Jill’s face, a very
white, very still face.
“No it wasn’t,” she said. “And I’m
telling the truth.”
“According to your own rules you
needn’t under certain circumstances,”,
said Simon Frencham.
That made me furious.
“I don’t care what any of you say or
think,” I said, “I’m taking care of Jill.
I’m taking her home, now.. I’m taking
your car, Rosalie. Richard can drive you
home later. Give her her notes and let
us go.”
1 was sure she hadn’t taken it, but then
I didn’t expect it to turn up in the Green-
law carpet-sweeper either. And I didn’t
see why Richard should lose it.
“Are you honestly going to let the
Pooles give you £20?” I said, directly at
Simon.
He gave me just one glare, and then
put on an air of smug professional
dignity.
“Had we got the police and had all
this come out in court exactly as it did
here I am bound to state that I think the
verdict would have gone against my wife.
I am certain that a jury would have
found for Miss Hammond —on the evi-
dence, of course, purely.” I wanted,
badly, to laugh. “And we,” went on
Simon, “accept that presumable verdict.
She alone must stand the loss.”
I took Jill’s arm and ran her out of
the room.
IT was a three-months-old letter from
Vere-made me tell this story. It brought
it all back so clearly. I’ll tell you a bit
of what she: said. ; - >
“Twenty pounds! You are a generous
little sister! Thanks so much, my dear.
We’ve called the new wee thing Margaret,
after the darling who footed her
bills.”
Well, Margaret’s a nicer name than
Agatha, say what you will!
A Telling Brevity:-
THE OLD HARE
BY LLYWELYN LUCAS.
CREEK CROSSING was a great place
for sport. When someone had raised
the kangaroo-dog that could catch
the Old Hare that dog would become
famous. The other mongs could never
catch him. It was not so much his speed
as his cunning that did it. And neither
men nor dogs were cunning enough for
him. It became a stock question in the
countryside “Anyone caught that Old
Hare yet?” And the answer was always
a shake of the head, and a chuckle and
a rumbled “No, they haven’t beat him
yet.”
Down on the flat where the Old Hare
made his home everything was wet. The
corn stood bravely in soaked fields. The
gutters ran with water. It was Sunday
morning. All Saturday had poured rain:
all Saturday night ; ■ and the dawn rose
clear and yellow with a hot sky on
Creek Crossing.
On this particular Sunday. the Old
Hare was more than J wary, because
scents were smarting richly on the mov-
ing air. It rose in gusts of moisture from
the earth already, and: carried with-it
odors of root and rot, shoot and growth.
It was a powerful, pleasant odor, in-
toxicating to any hare but a very old
wise one, who had
lived so. long by
abstemiously keep-
ing his joy of life
in check. He had
no desire to gam-
bol. Tie was too
old for that. But
he loved soft moist
earth and grass
under his pads, and
the moist, fur-curling airs under his ears.
He smelt Boons lighting their fire with
ironbark sticks and kerosene. He smelt
their cows going up to milking, and he
smelt a horse going along the road carry-
ing its owner to an early mass. He smelt
dogs. But they were' only cow-dogs —
Boon’s dogs. ■
He hopped out, sniffing wistfully
towards the cornfield, whiph would be
promising something more tender and
succulent now than his old teeth had
touched lately, then he hid away again.
He caught sight of a young hare loping
towards the cornfield, and signalled him
that this was not a good day to be out.
The young hare laughed and went on.
It was a splendid day in his .young esti-
mation: warm and steamy, and soft
underfoot; a splendid reeking day.
THE Old Hare could hear them joking
together above the heavy thud-thud of
their bare feet on the earth. They came
towards him like an army: three bare-
Tootcd men and a lot of grey dogs, tails
down, noses ‘low; miserable, sneaking,
'lean, long-jawed dogs; hungry, un-
natural dogs with no joy in life, only the
lust to kill. „
' They passed beside him, frozen still,
unbreathing, unscented, part of the earth,
his coat brown as the grass, his shape the
shape of a stone. • . ’ '
By the time the young hare had
filled his stomach with juicy green corn
fibre and almost started up the hill they
were on him. It.was so unfair . . . so . . .
so unfair. Beauty and goodness, appetite
and movement . . .
The young hare shrieked frightfully as
he died. The Old Hare heard him. Only
his ears moved a fraction. They were
hardened to such sounds.
The men had taken the hare from the
dogs. “A young one,” they said, “he’ll
be good to eat; pretty fat, too, in good
condition!” He hung limp, long soft
ears dangling.
They set the dogs crossing and recross-
ing the paddocks. The old hare with-
drew silently and softly to a deeper plat;
and then he saw his mistake —the first
mistake of his life. Behind the others had
come two more men with two more
dogs, bigger and more powerful dogs
than the others. He knew before they
stiffened to their own knowledge that
they had sensed him —and he was off.
Soon he would leave them far behind.
He shot out and up the hill. The men
yelled. The pack came after. Never had
he heard so many thudding, cludding,
panting, breathing behind him. Never
had he imagined there could be so many
dogs in the world—thirteen of them.
He was surprised, but he was not afraid
; —not very afraid—no more afraid than
usual.
Thirteen or thirty, they ran in a pack.
With his wind still good he tacked, here
and there, losing them, regaining them,
mile on mile, circling the well-known
haunt of his famous hill—the Old Hare’s
Hill —keeping away from the ; soft flat.
The dogs would tire. They always tired
in the end. He would play with them
soon. Then he would descend rapidly
and regain his home ground and safety.
Now! , ' :
Down he went with all the speed he
had left. It had been a long fun this
morning—the longest he had ever had.
Thirteen of them! Phew! .. . Home and
dried . . . Surely. The cornfield where
he would browse this evening . . . the
stars . . . the moisture . . . Surely.
* Like the wind ran the Old Hare,
breathing short and sharp now, for home.
Back he came, grandly, surely, almost
with a touch of swagger as one who ex-
claimed: “I’ve done it again!”.
Almost . . . From the leash the two
powerful dogs that had first roused him
leapt out. The men dashed out. The
Old Hare dodged once —only from one
dog’s jaws to the other’s. Fight—fail.
Fight—-fail. He screamed against doom.
He dropped. Blackness. His own voice
crying—shrieking —and red everywhere
-—his blood. Man’s cunning against his.
Five men against an Old Hare. Thirteen
dogs to one, and two in leash. They
had caught the Old Hare at last. They
were always great sports at Creek
Crossing.


III! I
\Jkis masterpiece is (Perfection
f the spirit fie almjs serves .
DSSG
5$
m
&
■ f
m.
v H
m
M
f /;4»
*V»
V <M»
'
K
(D c GxUuro’s
X (i/A/sfyjs-
jam A
/tew '*<
(IFCdllum's
Scots (Übislgf
<s• i sMnc**r^
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS,
McCALLUM;
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO„ Adelaic
&. CO., Hobart,
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
w
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- ( plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
>slwSs
«r <**• «*V
*aS
:: 4 v\ e
.0^
o'
#>
$
<*’
<$ '°^iv' c '
..•■•■' y <'''■&s&&*?*


.
Mi
■
K:, : :
■HRMIi
'< -‘ $S £*£g|.' * : v-j v o> ..
; |
iM
v Ta ~ ■ . * -:
m # / ***&l >' •'■' ■ ' I
* .*1
< f! t
>-- v< .■ " | i% .. '¥ i
M S , > ■: 'i \ * « ,\/ •
.
ti m
v V; ,
.
m*
x;
■
9
j '/%% ' ,
•■ ,;• •••
ilill
SPIP
fek
fv
0
m
>*% VAT
.. \ u r r^r
AA , ■y«p ,a «T:
" fl
■ ■■ ■•
A
'. V ,
: -■■:
vi,
\Y>'
Ssf'l
va'T
; ft
A
M
m*
mm
ft ; :'
-T’-'V ' ' «
Uva ... . - ■
¥
■:<■:
-
a*
■
W; . S£
,;i.. J 'vft,
■“£■ JuiiLstSi'
v
V\
■
4
E AT
/V y
V*
w
/£si
. \ *>
V ■ pY-
r,
'm $
M?
m
iSMi
11111 l
V
.:V
:
R
- ■
:
*3
Ift "
:
.
V -V, ■ -•-
M
4
; x.
%
mi
h m
Clear-toned Overseas Broadcasts
with a Ja&ma Detail-built
Dual-wave All-electric or Battery Receiver
Take a world-cruise whenever you like! Call in at the Paris Opera
House . . . run across and hear what America is doing . . . visit the
Olympic Games in Berlin ... be in time for the King’s Coronation.
Cross to Japan, listen to what the East has to say. Visit Holland,
Berlin, Moscow. Go Continental! Be Cosmopolitan! Tour the world
with a Tasma!
Voyaging by Tasma is LUXURY cruising. No wondering whether you’ll get the
place you want ... no delays ... no interruptions or interferences . . . clear, full-
toned reception ALL THE TIME.
Why fight the ether with an ordinary short-wave receiver when you can enjoy every
thrill that’s on the air (short-wave or broadcast) with a Tasma?
All Tasma Receivers (and ONLY Tasma Receivers) have the amazing Ferro-Coii.
No jittering, no background hiss, no inter-station “clashing.” The transformers are
air-conditioned so that climate and weather make no difference to the perfect Tasma
reception. You get the famous Tasma Bandspread Dial . . . you get every new
development of modern radio science ... in cabinets you’ll be proud to own.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS, TOO.
Whether you live in the city or miles from a power line, you can tour the globe with
a Tasma. SEE them! HEAR them! They make all the world your neighbours!
There is a Tasma All- Wave Receiver at the price YOU want to pay.
Ash your Tasma dealer to show you the complete range.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY.. LTD., 370
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
John Hallway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Oliver J. Nilsen & Co., Ltd.,
49 King: William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons, Ltd., 674 Hay
Street, Perth; 31 Adelaide Street, Fremantle;
and at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Bunbury.
Carlyle & Co., 913-917 Hay Street, Perth,
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen Street,
Brisbane, and Branches at Gympie, Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackay.
DARLING DOWNS: Kosenstengels Pty., Ltd.,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
NE\V ZEALAND: New Zealand Electric Equipment, Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
c /atomt
DUAL-WAVE RECEIVERS
i-r
1
■
i'ASMA MODEJLS 335 and 335
in tjre new and beautiful
Masefield Cabinet. These six-
valve DUAL-WAVE Receivers
embody the I’EBRO-COIL
air-conditioned transformers*
floodlit bandspread dial*
velvet tuning drive and con-
tinuously variable tone
control. Heavy duty com-
ponents throughout; noise
suppressor; all vital parts
impregnated against humidity.
Price (for Model 335), £37/10/-.
For Model 335. BATTERY
operated, £43/10/- (slightly
higher outside N.8.W.).
No Background Noise
—No “Interference"
The amazing lack of
background noise is
one of the most strik-
ing features of Tasma
short-wave reception.
You will note particu-
larly how, on the 19-
metre band, Tasma has
overcome the inter-
ference and irregu-
larity which so often
mar the performance
of ordinary receivers.
Experts and amateurs
agree that the Tasma
Model 325 is probably
the most outstanding
short-wave receiver
offering at the present
time. Before coming
to any decision re-
garding a new set, in-
spect and hear this
truly remarkable
Tasma production—
the Tasma 325.
Price £37/10/-.
(Slightly higher out-
side N.S.W.)
■■
■ r 1
i :
1 ‘
m
u
m
TASMA MODEL 310 is now
featured in the perfect crafts-
manship of the new Gilbert
Cabinet. This Bive-valve
Dual-wave Receiver is BAT-
TERY operated and is one of
the most effective and attrac-
tive sets produced by Tasma
for rural use. The remark-
ably low battery consumption
of the Tasma 310 conies as a
distinct surprise to those ex-
periencing' it for the first
time.
Brice, £33/10/6 (slightly higher
outside N.S.W.). If in
Lawrence Cabinet, £35/10/-.
11
TASMA MODELS 350 and 305
—both Battery Operated
Dual-wave Receivers in the
graceful new Lawrence
Cabinet. Tasma 350 is a six-
valve receiver; 363 has five
valves. Both receivers feature
Ferro-Coil and every famous
Tasma development. Perfect
world-wide reception for the
country listener.
Prices: Tasma 350, £3l/15/-;
Tasma 365, £39/15/- (slightly
higher outside If.S.W.V.
