

u
m
m-i
mss
I / V.> V < -.i:?.. p|Ml**
#1
twwiMXiwmw
.
';V' : ' : '
liiiii
x:
■ -
‘ _ A
EE&till
/ ■
Sm m&m
jps*
JSmr.
Z J
m
:
VVV;
, '
'
?> ■ '< --
:.
"*"
, i;
►
THE WELCOME GIFT
6/20 KODAK JUNIOR
New style models you’ll be proud to carry—or proud to give.
Bring new convenience and efficiency to picture-making.
Values are simply amazing!
C. 20, With f/8.8 lens., 6/16., with f/7.7 lens
for popular 2.1 x A for pictures 21 x 41
inch pictures for inches,
only * • ' Price
You can afford Home Movies—what better time to start than
Christmas morning ? The finest family investment you can
make! From £ll/19/6
67/6
GIVE A KODAK—and you give the
happy promise of a thousand delightful
snapshots. All the year a constant
reminder of your thoughtfulness!
BROWNIES for
GIRLS and BOYS
Better than toys! A Brownie starts a
youngster on tin* finest of all hobbies.
Baby Brownie—modern all-moulded
design. Loads for pictures 2Jin. x lfin.
with Kodak Film sold everywhere. 6/-.
Box Brownies—these popular picture-
makers offer greater values than ever.
Smart—modernistic—jus! the thing for
Christmas. Junior Models from
£3
14/6
COUPLED RANGE-FINDER
KODAK REGENT
Ts’o more fuzzy snaps, thanks to
simply-operated range-finder. Stream-
lined design with everything “built-
in.” f/3.8 lens. Corapur Shutter.
Makes either 8 or 16 pictures on Fl2O
Kodak Film. . . . .
Brice £lB/10/-
MINIATURE
KODAKS DE LUXE
A wide range of models covering every
need, 'showing every modern improve-
ment.
Duo Kodaks, as illustrated, for 16 exp.
on Fl2O Film. Compur Shutter, f/4.5
lens, £8; f/3.5 lens, £lO.
Retina for 36 exp. 35mm. f/3.5 lens.
Compur Shutter. Price £lO/10/-
Dull Chromium finish £l3
Bantam Special—famous f/2 lens model,
£26/10/-.
a
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Aust.) PTY., LTD. fZ'',fi dney: r K J 52
c d • u I-? n v * * Colhns Street , Melbourne, C.J ; 250-252 Queen
Street, Brisbane; 57 Rundle Street , Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; East
S, £ eet ’ Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville. Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 70
Princes Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay,Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch,
The Bulletin
Christmas Number.
VoL 57.—N0. 2965.
Wednesday, December 9, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


S. H. Prior Memorial Prize.
Closing Date, June 6, 1936.
For particulars of the third com-
petition for this annual literary prize
of £lOO, write the Secretary, the
Prior Prize, Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney.
DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
will be sent Free and Post Free to any
address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Sto^
Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLIE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL -
Please send, without obligation yov *
liooklet, explaining how to »nfe I°*
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
ihj Name
My Address
S.B. 136
The Red Page
“CHUNUMA”
When Gover-
nor Phillip in
1788 made nis at-
tempt to count the aborigines from
Botany Bay to the Hawkesbury, he esti-
mated the number at 1500, probably an
underestimate, because he could muster
only 130 on the shores of Port Jackson,
with 67 canoes. Most of them no doubt
bolted into the scrub. To-day the city of
Sydney blankets the hunting-grounds and
camping-places of three abo. tribes, who
in 60 years became extinct. In the whole
State of N. S. Wales there are now not
more than 1000 full-blooded descendants
of the original inhabitants of the country.
A similar story is to be told of every
other State. In Tasmania, the abos. com-
pletely disappeared with the death of the
last of her tribe, Truganinni, in 1876 ; in
Victoria 50 full-bloods remain, in S.A.
1700, in Queensland 12,000, most of
them in the north ; N.T. holds 17,000 ;
W.A. 22,000. These are round figures
from a census in 1934, so that only about
54,000 remain in the Commonwealth out
of an estimated 300,000 when the white
man came.
This, in numbers, is the sad story of
the vanishing Australian race, suffering
the usual fate of primitive peoples, to
whom civilisation is but a pestilence that
destroys. Quickly they abandon their
old customs and forget their beliefs ; in
surrendering their tribal integrity they
lose their racial consciousness, and this
is the beginning of dissolution.
Australian aboriginals are objects more
of curiosity than of interest, and yet they
should be the most interesting individuals
on earth, because in their extreme primi-
tiveness they are the nearest living ap-
proach to the original Adam. They came
from Southern
Asia across the
East Indian
isthmus before
that land bridge
was destroyed, to
leave them
marooned in a
strange, wide
continent, with
queer ani-
mals and
birds and
and is t in ctive
trees, and the
world went on without them. The
scarcity of natural food made, them
split into groups and fight for possession
of the hunting-places, and each group
developed a separate language, thus keep-
ing them still closer to the beginning of
human time.
They stayed near the Stone Age. They
never learned to place a seed in the
ground for a plant to grow, to mould a
piece of clay to make a cup, to build a
roof to keep them dry. They remained
children while the rest of the human race
grew up, so childlike that even their chil-
dren came to "them in dreams. They
believed in fairies, though most of their
fairies were debbil-debbils.
The abo. has almost vanished from
the southern half of the continent of
Australia. In that half, only about 3000
remain, mainly in mission stations: the
tribal groups have dissolved. Those who
remain have forgotten the lore of their
fathers, and are objects of pity, with sad-
ness in their eyes. There are thousands
of white Australians in the southern
States who have never seen a black-
fellow. Only in the far north is it pos-
sible now to study the abo. in his
natural, or even semi-natural, state.
Of these primitive people, Mary and
Elizabeth Durack have written and illus-
trated —Mary the writer and Elizabeth
the illustrator—two of the most unique
and delightful books yet published in
Australia, All-About, meaning “all of
us,” published last year, and Chunuma.
(Bulletin ; 3s. 6d.).
They have sent us these
books from the far
north —Argyle station
on the Ord River,
which is in the East
Kimberleys, just across
the Northern Territory
border in Westralia.
All-About was a collection of sketches
of the natives camped in humpies near
the cattle-station homestead, where some
of the gins played at housework, while
the boys worked as stockmen and made
a great game of it —sketches grouped to
present to us a picture of the everyday
lives of these station blacks. A fine book.
All-A bout. An original book, full of
life and laughter, the everlasting laugh-
ter of the aboriginal, to whom, in his
free state, life is one long practical joke,
even, after rubbing his wounds, to the
victim of an accident. Disasters are
dramatised in corroborees. All-About
had one fault; there wasn’t enough of it.
So now, Chufiuma.
His full name was Chunuma Gun-
|}ungy Rainyerri, and he was the king’s
;randson. Mundee, his father, had first
magined him riding on a snake in the
till waters of the river, and in his dreams
hat night Chunuma had come to him and
isked him where his mother was, and
Mundee handed his dream child to
Daisy.
When he was born, the older members
jf the camp smeared charcoal and fat
aver him so that he wouldn’t grow up
little bit white fella,” but he was prop-
erly black all right, or rather “a rich
chocolate brown, with a soft down that
shone like gold-dust in the sun.’
As time went on, his playground was
the station crossing of the Ord, along
with his playmates Jingbee, seven years
his senior, and Bags, the young wallaby.
Here along the banks grew the native
figs, and the wild passion vines, and the
spidery pandanus, dipping to the water,
and upstream in the still, clear reaches rish
splashed invitingly, and crocodiles lazed,
with only the knobby tips of their snouts
and their protruding eye-sockets visible
above the surface. Here, too, were the
fresh-water turtles that laid their eggs in
the sand, and the big water-goannas and
lizards that darted up the swinging paper-
bark branches, startling a cluster of black
flying-foxes or white cockatoos to protest-
ing flight. Blood finches built in the pan-
danus and snow-white ibis and pelican
fished placidly along the river’s edge- And
this, as Chunuma had it, was the h Ord
River, b’longta me an’ Jingbee an Bags.
It was their Paradise.
And so it was for six years, until the
day came when Jingbee, “smeared all
over with a wonderful de-
sign in white mundick and
red ochre and feathers,”
went off to be made a man,
and Bags went off to look
for a mate.
Chunuma was lonely
until he found Dingyerri, a
wild girl-child from the
Territory, whose parents
had been chased to the Ord
and speared for some
breach of tribal law, and
when the blacks went
“walkabout” and gathered
on the Ord for a
corroboree the two
of them found
Gwennie, “a smart
kid properly” who
could
crumaphone.”
Gwennie is a minx.
The artful way .
she threw the apple of discord into the
walkabout camp is delightfully told.
There was. always the possibility of a
storm brewing “when the lubras had no-
thing more important to do than to sit
about looking at the boys, and the boys
nothing more absorbing than making one
another jealous.” It was part of the holi-
day in which even the dogs joined
“tooth and claw in the general bedlam.
Nothing very serious, as a rule.
Only very occasionally was the fight of
a more serious nature, when some warrior,
not content with a mere flirtation with an-
other man’s lubra, was determined to carry
her off. Then there was a brooding dark-
ness in faces that had become suddenly
the faces of wild men, who held human life
in small account.
Though, in this book, the three children
occupy the centre of the stage, they are
but part of the general scene, which is
a faithful picture of half-civilised abo-
riginal life on a cattle station.
Mary and Elizabeth Durack are well
qualified to write with knowledge of these
people. They were reared among them.
Their father, Miguel P. Durack, is one
of the Durack family who pioneered the
East Kimberleys. Following on the ex-
plorations of Alexander Forrest in 1879,
the Duracks first examined and subse-
quently settled in the Ord River country,
overlanding cattle from the outer Barcoo
up to the Gulf and across the Territory
in 1885, after an epic journey of over
2500 miles, which took them over two
years. Argyle station, the scene of the
stories in All-About and Chunwna, was
one of the stations they formed.
Maiy Durack has made an earlier
essay into literature, having published
Little Poems of Sunshine, written at the
age of 10. Both girls are still in their
early twenties, so we may expect more
from them. The sketches of Elizabeth
Durack which adorn the books are
inimitable.
T. D. MUTCH.
VANISHING
AUTHORS
About 10 years
ago Melbourne
“Argus” con-
ducted a plebis-
cite to determine
the most popular Australian author and
most popular Australian poet, and a
Bulletin paragraphist commented on
the result: “There are many genuine
students of local letters who would be
hard put to name a solitary work by
some of the writers.” He mentioned
William Astley as among those whose
works were unknown to him.
It came as a shock to me then that a
man who had been writing for and read-
ing The Bulletin for 25 years should
not have known Tales of the Convict
System or Tales of the Old Regime, to
mention but two of Astley’s half-dozen
collections of short stories. I have
since grown accustomed to the idea that
at least 97 per cent, of the well-known
writers of any generation are utterly
unknown to the next; so when a uni-
versity lecturer who prides himself on
his knowledge of Australian literature
recently confessed to me that he had
never heard of Harry Morant I didn’t
move an eyelid.
Who now reads Wilfrid Mailler,
author of The Secret Garden ? Yet A. G.
Stephens ranked him as a poet above
James Hebblethwaite, whose A Rose of
Regret Stephens included in A Southern
Garland. And who reads Hebble-
thwaite? Very few, I suspect. Only
those who stumble across “Merrymind,”
“Perdita” or “Wanderers” in the antholo-
gies, or who own a copy of A Southern
Garland, over 30 years out of print. One
curious reader of him I have known was
a clergyman who disliked everything
English. He treasured a volume of
poems by Hebblethwaite —the only Aus-
tralian book in his library—yet Hebble-
thwaite was for ever yearning for the
England he left as a young man! It
may have been because
James was a fellow-toiler
in the vineyard. So was
Mailler, I was surprised to
learn, when I turned to
Serle’s Bibliography of
Australasian Poetry to
check the spelling of the
poet’s name.
Speaking of clergymen,
it was Louis Webb, an in-
frequent contributor of
black-and-white drawings
to The Bulletin, who
afterwards exchanged an
artist’s bow for a back-
to-front collar, that intro-
duced me to the poems of
Frank Morton. He pre-
sented me, I remember, at
Pellegrini’s, a long-van-
ished resort of Sydney
Bohemians, with a copy
of Frank’s Laughter and
Tears. When I last heard of Louis it
was rumored that he was well on the
way to becoming a bishop.
Frank Morton was a Baptist and the
son of a grocer, but you wouldn’t think
so reading the verses to the Penelopes,
Marjories, Jennies and Suzettes whoni
he poetically kissed in his time. In his
verses Frank posed as the Great Lover
—a disillusioned, yet still dangerous,
roue. David McKee Wright, who knew
him well, once assured me, however, that
Frank was actually a most domesticated
Clt When I first joined The Bulletin
there was a fierce argument raging as do
whether Frank Morton or Ernest Sando
Emerson was the baldest of the poets
south of the Line. Having seen both I
should have put my money on Fra -
Emerson, son of a cousin of Ralph
Waldo Emerson, began to contribute
verse to The Bulletin in 1898 as “Milky
White.” Some years ago I heard a Ger-
man farmer at Oakdale (N.S.W.) give an
excellent rendering of his “There is Music
in the Mallee” —one of the best rain
songs 1 know, and as popular as “Tramp-
ing Down to Dubbo in the Rain
among people who write to The Bulle-
tin’s Service Department for such things.
Touching on preferences of readers in
the matter of verses which have origi-
nally appeared in The Bulletin, I have
spent a fair amount of the last 20 years
searching the files to satisfy some keen
but hazy fellow outback who has wanted
“the piece by Lawson about the bush
cove and caper sauce” or “that bit about
the crows that flew backwards.” Firm
favorites as “Clancy of the Overflow, ”
“When Your Pants Begin to Go” and
“When Brother Peetree Prayed” are, they
are not within coo-ee of the one about the
sunburnt, blanky stockman who cursed
his blanky boots, or Dennis’s National
Anthem which begins “Fellers of Aus-
tralia, blokes and coves and coots,” or
Henry Tate’s grotesque nonsense-verse
“The Wreck of the Brunkencrungercrob.”
Incidentally, there has been a great rush
for Jack Moses’s “Nine Miles from Gun-
dagai”—it was not printed in The Bul-
letin —ever since the statue of a dog on
a tucker-box was erected in memory of
the pioneers of the district three leagues
outside the township.
Jack should be making fair money in
royalties judging by the demand for
Beyond the City Gates, in which his
widely-quoted verse appears; and,
speaking of money, I should say there
is some to be harvested by the publisher
who issues a new edition of Bushman
and Buccaneer: Harry Moran t: His
’Ventures and Verses, by “Frank Renar ’
(Frank Fox, once of The Bulletin).
The only edition was published in 1902
by H. T. Dunn and Co., Sydney, and
copies nowadays bring fair prices. Every
year I receive a score of inquiries con-
cerning it. My own copy was recently
pinched by some dog and a half.
Harry Morant, or “The Breaker,” as
he was known to Bulletin readers of the
’nineties, is not even mentioned by con-
scientious Harry Green in his Outline of
Australian Literature; nor did Nettie
Palmer, in her Lothian Prize essay, men-
tion him, nor did Zora Cross and C.
Hartley Gratten in their booklets deal-
ing with Australian literature. Yet, de-
spite such neglect by the critics, I pre-
dict that “The Breaker” will be remem-
bered when such contemporaries of his
as O’Hara, Church and Holdsworth are
forgotten. The three mentioned were
probably superior versifiers; but, then,
Holdsworth never in his life rode a horse
into a bar and made merry there with
a stockwhip -; Church never indulged in
the daredevil escapades that marked
Morant’s career as horse-breaker, polo-
player and steeplechase jockey ; 0 Hara
never broke the lules of social propriety,
indulged in benders that lasted weeks or
busted three months’ earnings on one
also-ran. Nor did any of the three gather
about them such glamor as may spring
from being executed for shooting Boer
prisoners-of-war! Anyone who wants to
read the story and cannot get nold ot
Frank Fox’s book should try to obtain
G. R. Witton’s Scapegoats of the Empire.
Another of the less “respectable" Bul-
letin bards was J. A. Andrews, the
(Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” — and" in every act.
—Jr.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES.
* V
y
‘THE SENIOR STORE.”
V
v\
SaeA/vill appreciate
f ; ■
B
c
*4
D
A
1000 PAIRS
w
//
GLOVES make sensible Gifts
c
PURE SILK
HOSIERY
/■ /PAIR
4 it
• LACE TOPS • PANEL HEELS
The perfect gift! Divine Lady” Hosiery, specially made for
us, is the choice of hundreds of women for smart appearance,
perfect fit and durability. Fully-fashioned ail-silk from top
to toe in beautifully fine Sheer weight. Dainty lace tops and
panel heels. New season’s shades, also Suntan tones. All
sizes. Price, pair ; 4/11
9 Hosiery—New Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
H
x>,\
• BEAUTY CASE
A—Made of soft leather with sliding
fastener. Fitted with empty cosmetic
bottles and jars with bakelite tops.
Red, Blue, Green. Price .... 32/6
Others from 8/6, 11/9, 17/11,
49/11, 70/-, 75/-.
# Antique Brooch
B—A lovely antique brooch
for day or evening wear. It
measures 2in. across and is set
with brilliant stones in various
Price . . . 6/l»!
# PENDANT
C—For a distinctive gift, give
one of these pendants.
Antique style, beautifully set
with coloured stones.
Price 9/11
Ear-rings or dress clip to
match, each . 7/11
m BRACELET
D—This bracelet is very be-
coming for evening wear, and
makes a charming gift. Set
with small coloured stones.
Price 8/11
Others ....... 9/11, 10/11
9 SWANSDOWN HAND-
KERCHIEF PUFF
E—A dainty 'gift! Handkerchiefs,
beautifully hand-painted and stencilled,
together with a swansdown powder
puff. Complete in pretty cellophane
box. Prices: 3/6, 5/3, 6/3, 6/11,
7/1 I, 9/1 1.
# 4711 Eau de Cologne
F—A new delightfully fragrant Eau de
Colo gne made by the makers of 4711.
In smart sprinkler-top bottles with gold
and blue screw cap. Prices: 3/6, 5/6,
9/-, 21/-, 41/6.
® Perfumery and Art. Jewellery—New
Ground Floor —Pitt Street. Freight paid
only on Art. Jewellery to all railway stations
in N.S.W. and seaports in the Common-
wealth.
m SUMMERWEIGHT
NAPPA
G A pair of Nappa Gloves is
always a welcome gift' because
they wear so beautifully. These
are summerweight. In Black,
Brown and Black-trimmed White.
In gift box. Price 7/11
a WASHABLE
DOESKIN
H— Doeskin Gloves are
favourites for the summer, and
this comfortable slipon style will
please anyone. White only.
Packed for presentation.
Price 6/11
9 REAL KID IN
BLACK
I Perhaps nothing else’ will
delight her as. much as a pair of
real Kid Gloves. Fine, soft
quality. Neat one-dome style.
Brown, Beige, Navy, Black,
Black/White. In box.
Price . 9/11
9 Gloves —New Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
Anthony Horderns’
’Phone M 2401,
Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address;
Box 2712 C, G.P,O.


anarchist, one of the many queer identi-
ties The Bulletin office has known from
time to time. Andrews was originally a
Victorian civil servant, but his ideas in-
curred the disapproval of one of the
Public Service Commissioners, and he
was sacked. That was said to have
brought on a brain fever from which
he never fully recovered. He took up
journalism and made a hand-to-mouth
living by his pen; finally he drifted
into the ruck of Domain orators. But
though he had a fine gift of literaly
expression he was a miserable speaker,
and when he stood blurting out
unfinished sentences under the Red Flag,
with his beard a month old, his boots
tied up with string and his hair sticking
through a split hat, he might have stepped
out of an early Hughie Maclean drawing
of a park-dosser.
Another unorthodox rhymer, also a
soapbox performer, though more elo-
quent than Andrews, was Grant Hervey
(George Henry Cochrane), who wrote
verse for The Bulletin for 30 years. A
huge, handsome fellow, with a screw
loose, he was originally a blacksmith’s
striker, and, as James Edmond said, “he
had a constitution which could shift
pyramids and tear up the Sphinx by the
roots.” In his earlier and better days
he was one of the best writers of frivo-
lous verse in Australia ; he also thun-
dered in the manner of Walt Whitman.
Hervey achieved the dubious distinction
of being the. only poet in Australia
to have been tarred and feathered.
It happened at Mildura when C. J.
de Garis was in his prime. Serle
records that Thomas C. Lothian pub-
lished a bulky volume of Hervey’s poetry
in 1913, but I have never seen a copy
nor have I ever heard it asked for.
Not so Hits, Skits and Jingles, by W.
T. Goodge, which, although out of print
now since 1904, is still eagerly sought by
lovers of nonsense verse. Goodge’s Muse
never flew very high ; but as a skilful
versifier on topical subjects he has had
few rivals in Australia. He. was
a rhyming dictionary on two legs; if
Goodge couldn’t find a word to jingle
with another, then it could be safely said
that the other word hadn’t a rhyming
mate.
Among humorous bards whose work
still appears to be in some demand are
George Herbert Gibson, author of Iron-
bark Splinters from the Australian Bush,
T. E. Spencer (“How McDougall
Topped the Score”) and John Philip
Bourke (“A Bloke from Mulligar”). And
Westralia’s “Dryblower” Murphy re-
tains his public.
Of the prose writers, William Astley,
better known as “Price Warung,” not-
withstanding the opinion of the para-
graphist mentioned at the beginning of
this article, has been in steady demand
for as long as I can recall. It is a de-
mand that cannot be met, for all his col-
lections of short stories have long dis-
appeared, even from second-hand book-
shops. Astley’s popularity 1 attribute to
the reading public’s interest in the convict
period. Despite critics who attacked
Brian Penton for resurrecting some of
our unsavory past, the average Australian
reader apparently does not want that side
of our beginnings shelved and forgotten.
Marcus Clarke still ranks among Aus-
tralian best-sellers, and if Albert Dorring-
ton’s Castro’s Last Sacrament was re-
printed it would, I am certain, be assured
of good sales.
Astley often gets the credit for having
written The History of Botany Bay,
which appeared serially in The Bulletin
in 1888 and was afterwards published
in book form, illustrated with grisly
sketches by “Hop” and Phil May. Since
it dealt with the horrors of “The
System” the mistake is, perhaps, pardon-
able. Actually it was written under the
nom de plume of “Arthur Gayll” by
Francis J. Donohue, a postal official who
drifted into journalism. Donohue was
a deeply religious man, and at one time
joined an order of monks, but subse-
quently came out into the world again.
The History of Botany Bay is regarded
as a rarity in the book world, and a
chance to pick up a copy cheap should
not be missed.
I should say “The Lobster and the
Lioness,” by Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”),
is the most popular yarn ever published
in The Bulletin, though “Kodak’s” own
idea was that he had written many better.
Edward Dyson’s “The Golden Shanty”
and Lawson’s “The Drover’s Wife” are
close behind it in popular fancy, and in-
quiries still trickle in for the date of
Dowell O’Reilly’s yarn about the curate
who lost his bullant-infested pants.
“Ghosts,” by Henry Mostyn, a more
recent writer, has had a strong following
for nearly 10 years, and so have various
stories of the “By Rail and Semaphore”
and “Shepherd Kings of Canterbury”
series, by C. A. Jeffries. But, such few
instances apart, there seems no interest
whatever in the numerous prose writers
who were so popular in their not-so-long-
ago day. I cannot recall a single inquiry
for a story by J. Reay Watson, Perce
Abbott, J. S. Evison, J. B. Castieau,
Francis Rollitt, Frank Marryat Norris
and many others all very well known in
the ’nineties.
As for paragraphists, I can recall only
two who were writing in the ’nineties
who are remembered to-day: Phil Mou-
bray (“Scotty the Wrinkler”) and Donald
Fraser (“Jimmie Pannikin”).
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
A FRUITFUL VINE
In western Queensland there is—or
was—a certain lands office with a
verandah 40 or 50 feet long, in summer
dark with grapes. At one end could be
seen new silver-green leaf and twining
tendrils reaching for spaces yet un-
covered. At the other end, close to the
ground, were the parent branches, black,
thick and gnarly with ancient growth.
The fruit hung closest midway between
root and tip. That vine can be taken
as symbolic of Miles Franklin’s new
novel, All That Swagger (The Bulle-
tin ; 6s.), for, notwithstanding the
slightly critical implication of the title,
it is essentially a glad record of growth
and fecundity ; of slips that struck in
Australian earth in days when those
words had none of their present conno-
tations —when the unreclaimed soil was,
to quote Johanna,
merely “the furthest
extremity of the
globe.” .
The book like
the vine—is big in
its sweep and fine in
its detail, so there-
fore has to be taken
broadly. Danny
Delacy’s father, who
could not bring him-
self to come from
the house to say
good-bye when
Danny, with
Johanna, left for
Australia, and the
mother whom
Danny ever after-
wards saw sitting on
a milestone with her
apron over her head
stand for something
more than them-
selves alone. So,
too, with the brief
story of the Young
Delacys’ early
struggles in the raw
colony. Danny
dreamed of wide
dominions, and in
pursuit of his vision,
after a brief experi-
ence of employ-
ment on a station,
followed the ex-
plorers’ tracks down
to the Murrum-
bidgee. He had
little enough to go
with, a borrowed
dray, a lame horse
and his own high
courage. Johanna,
though not an en-
thusiast, was a better pioneer than
ever she knew. Her dream was not of
conquest of the soil, but of the “elegan-
cies,” and as she could not have them in
more civilised places she tried to create
them where Danny pitched his camp.
Their nucleus —her tokens of faith —
were a few pieces of Waterford glass
and other treasured oddments she had
brought from Ireland. Greater oppor-
tunity called, and Danny —now an old
hand, about seven years in the colony —
had to move. The Alps that ringed the
skyline beckoned whenever he looked at
them, so he dragged Johanna and her
babies over the mountain passes to a
valley beside the higher waters of the
river. Whether he would later have
gone further there is no saying, for the
growing family chained him now; that
and an accident that cost him a leg.
The Danny and Johanna who had
courted on a stile in County Clare for-
got each other in the struggle of life.
Johanna became a bit of a shrew after
one of the. girls was burned to death dur-
ing one of Danny’s absences from home.
To her was the care of the children
about her feet; to Danny the care of
beast and paddock. His energies were
taken up with his struggle with the re-
sisting bush, contention with his neigh-
bors over grazing rights, guarding
against cattle duffers and his journey-
ings between Bewuck, the old property,
and Burrabinga, the new. His consola-
tions were in his conscious part in the
taming of a great new country and in
his pipe—never missing from his black
beard whether he was peg-legging about
the homestead or swimming a river in
flood.
Then comes, with the growth of the
children —and of those of the Fullwoods,
the Anguses, the Urquharts and a
dozen other families —the great middle
part of the story. Gold had brought a
rush of population. The colony had ex-
panded. Railways were approaching.
Townships had developed. The giving
and taking in marriage and the home-
making of the native-born had com-
menced. There were markets for cattle.
There was trade in horses with India.
Those who were doing well were in-
dulging in what luxuries the times
afforded. It was the middle period of
pioneering. Smart vehicles behind
matched pairs were appearing on the
roads. A generation of young horse-
men were vying with each other in the
breeding and pacing of their mounts,
their show of accoutrements—and all
that swagger. Yet, withal, it was a
time when few men were in a position
to avoid soiling their hands with manual
tasks.
It is here, in the handling of an intri-
cate mass of material, that Miles Frank-
lin shows her skill. Her characters,
men and women, are many: old
hands and their wives, the rising genera-
tion, squatters, drovers, station hands,
blacks, convicts, horse-dealers, publicans
and clergy. Each of them is individual
and alive: Hennessy the publican, one-
time convict, who is ambitious for his
A Douglas Pratt etching from one of the superb
drawings he did for the serial of “All That Swagger.”
niece Molly ; Sandy Angus, head of a
respectable family, who struggles to keep
the secret of his convict days ; Fullwood,
who would come the haughty English
aristocrat if the others would let him,
but who is not above clapping his brand
on another man’s yearling; the
Urquharts, of whom little is known ; the
Delacys, children of pride, but looked
down on for their Irish brogue —each
has a significance in the book’s pattern.
The writer keeps in mind, as well as the
personalities of her people, their rela-
tionships, their ancient grudges, their in-
debtednesses one to another, their
present rivalries, their ambitions for their
young ones if they are of the older gen-
eration and their hopes of each other if
they are of the newer one.
Miles Franklin’s style is a robust
romanticism leavened with a sense of
humor. She glories in her pioneers, but
she insists that they show themselves as
the human beings they were in their day
—not mythical heroes. She enjoys, too,
to show —and the records support her
that in a land overrun with virile males
convict parentage did not prevent a girl
moving by way of marriage into one of
the successful early families if she had
good wits as well as a good figure. In
fact, aside from the interest of the many
personal threads that are followed, the
mass of the middle part of the book
shows the southern race forming in the
fusion of widely different social and
racial units from older lands.
The core of the book, of course, is
the Delacy homestead, where Johanna
and Danny have joy and sorrow alter-
nately in their children, and where, in
advanced years, when the view is back-
ward, they renew at times their joy in
each other. Robert is the dashing one
of the Delacy boys ; a good horseman,
and a born father who gets into one
scrape after another with the girls, but
escapes matrimony until his middle thir-
ties, when he takes a woman who is
above reproach. Robert is idolised by
his mother, whose cry each time he is
in trouble is: “They’re after me beauti-
ful boy.” Harry is Robert’s faithful
liege. William, as far as the girls were
concerned, was a Joseph in his genera-
tion. Norah marries sensibly and with-
out trouble, and apparently enjoys much
happiness. Della, very impressionable
as a young girl, becomes enamored of
a smart uniform while on a visit to
Sydney. It inhibits her in the matter of
laking a husband until she is in her late
thirties. Her family find her useful as
a maid of all work and her mother
hopes she will go into the Church. Then
she suddenly marries Ned, whom nobody
else had considered marriageable, and
presents Johanna and Danny with their
first grandson. (It is spelt with capital
letters in the book.) In her triumph
Della comes into a late blossoming.
The story of the mating of the Delacy
brood and of others necessarily involved,
though it can be indicated here only in
outline, forms, as it were, the ribs of
that part of the book in which it
occurs. After it, when Johanna has died
in the memory of her mother’s home in
Clare and Danny’s pipe “has gone out at
last” —comes the story of the grand-
children. They—to return to the vine—
are like grapes that must be lifted to see
to which branch they trace back. Comes
the Great War, and grandsons of all the
pioneers swarming to the defence of
their heritage. The author, in the
sophistication of her post-war mentality,
refuses them her complete approval,
though she does not deny them their
valor. Then the story reaches into the
immediate present, groping for the
future, with a Delacy roaring through
the skies above the tracks his forebears
travelled with lumbering bullock-drays,
A number of interesting points are
made by Franklin. One is the in-
fluence of the. horse on the present social
consciousness of Australians. Our
fathers rode. Put a man on a horse and
he can’t be a peasant; he 11 become a
caballero of some sort. The other is
the debt that is owing to the bullock.
We have reached where we stand by the
groaning of beasts.
~ All That Swagger has its faults—it’s a
dull-witted reviewer who can’t find a
few of these to justify himself—but they
are minor and the book is distinctly
major. It demands to be taken all-in-
all. It is a fine book for a writer to
offer a young country in which pioneer-
ing-—in the broadest sense —has only
commenced. It faces the sun. It praises
life.
;|; * * *
RECOMMENDED
Fiction: All That Swagger, Miles
Franklin (The Bulletin) ; Vagabond
Minstrel, Thomas Burke (Longmans.
Green); Jungfrau, Dymphna Cusack
(The Bulletin) ; Europa, Robert Brit-
fault (Robert Hale); Gunnar’s Daugh-
ter, Sigrid Undset (Cassell); Th e
Brothers Ashkenazi, I. I- Singer (Put-
nam). General: Wonders of the Great
Barrier Reef, T. C. Roughley (Angus
and Robertson); The Anatomy of Frus-
tration, H. G. Wells (Cresset Press);
Sentenced to Adventure, Serge Zoic
(Harrap); Rip Tide in the South Seas.
Willard Price (Heinemann); Stone Age
Bushmen of To-day, J. R- B. Lo\-
(Blackie).
F. D. D.
Reviewed Briefly.
pjcxioN
ft enry ' Airhubble: W. J. Turner
nt . y 7§ An extravaganza of
travel and a sequel to Blow
f or Balloons, which was appreciated in
some rters xhe hero i s a n Austra-
Humorous in patches, but for the
■ bit forced,
« F c ne „.. er
Or Give Me Death . Erie P * a
(Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). Gaietv, mur
beautiful woman, pohfied plottm
duction, rescue and iove_ triumphant in
and around Athens. A thriller manufac
tured by a craftsman vno knows his joo
and can write decently to boot.


m
s
■
£.
■ -
■
>•
MILS RAM
The World's Best Safety
To the happy Recipient a Rolls Razor will give Shaving
Comfort for Life. You will have the satisfaction of
knowing that your Gift is the Best the World has to Offer.
Models from 501-
Rolls Razors are obtainable at all the Best Retail Stores, Chemists, Tobacconists,
Hardware Merchants, Jewellers, Booksellers and Stationers throughout the Com-
monwealth of Australia.
The Head Office in Sydney is part of a World-wide Organi-
sation to give service and to substantiate the Guarantee with
which every Razor is Sold.
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
~r rTnDU INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
OTiFFN^A SM^ NIA: A Dl Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
SOUTH S AUSTRaha 6 - r ros -’,, Aus i f Pty T Ltd -> Monarch House,'Creek Street, Brisbane.
BCUIH AUSTRALIA: T Cornells, Coltons and Holfnungs.
ESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m
MM*-**!
- **"«%« »
W&M?zZx
#**K
mmmKzr^
**
m «#*
,I»» *■- <*
& *
*i #*»#***
*«■':'■*:■ JT
&*
aw*
Jfe»
j*p*
M> .*»►
*«&> *«*<
JF
ss*
EBSZ&
JF
/v^
/y
/■)
%;M
M
m
Some of the wine-filled casks waiting to be placed in one of the huge storage cellars.
V MS


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2965.
December 9, 1936.
“WE’LL STICK TO THE SHIP, LADY—YOU SAVE YOUR LIFE.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
ROMANCE AND DUTY.
Of all actual and possible forms of government,
government by newspaper must be accounted the
worst.
In the “sanctions” affair British and Dominion
newspapers, with a few honorable exceptions, failed
the country, and many of them were not above
publishing the rankest lies. In the events leading up
to the Constitutional crisis that was sprung on the
people last week, they failed the King, the object
of their indiscriminate and head-turning adulation
for nearly 40 years.
Australia rejoices, or is expected to rejoice, in an
organisation known as Associated Press.
All the daily newspapers belong to Associated
Press, and one of the blessings it confers upon the
public is a cable service “of unquestioned veracity,
completeness and authority”—Mr. Keith Murdoch,
of the Melbourne “Herald,” says so.
Mr. Murdoch gave the public this comforting
assurance in an address to a conference of
Associated Press delegates at Adelaide. He men-
tioned that Associated Press “employs a large
staff of highly-trained journalists in its London office
to collect and ‘prepare’ British and European news,”
and that “in selecting news sources only the most
dependable newspapers are chosen.” Did anybody
murmur “Abyssinia”? Nobody did.
While the delegates were being thus reminded
of their lofty mission, two members of Associated
Press, the Sydney “Sun” and the Brisbane “Courier-
Mail,” published an article by John Drinkwater—
one of a series he has written about King Edward.
The opening sentence was “The King has an unfailing
sense of just what should and should not be done.”
There followed a column or so on his Majesty’s
democratic ways with his Ministers, his relations with
his employees and his interest in “the acutest social
problems of his kingdom” ; and then Mr. Drinkwater
touched on “a matter about which I am sure that
every right-minded citizen of the Empire will be in
agreement with me f ”
No public figure, even in the humblest station,
escapes malicious gossip. Great eminence is the more
exposed to this form of attack. It is usually as
ridiculous as it is contemptible.
Certain foreign papers with some circulation in this
country have now been busy with our King’s private
life. That this happens to be one of singular charm
and generosity is beside the point. In no circumstances
whatever can it fitly be a proper subject for public
discussion or private conjecture.
In the circle of his own friends, the King’s life is
as much his own affair as mine or the dustman’s, and
any interference with it, even in the sanctified name of
newsmongering, is a gross impertinence.
We have on the throne a man who looks like doing
incalculable service to kingship and to his people. Not
to respect the privileges of his private life is disgraceful.
It was well understood in the newspaper world
that Mr. Drinkwater’s articles were read in manu-
script at Buckingham Palace and certified as correct
before being distributed to the journals publishing
them. This did not prevent two Australian morning
newspapers, shining lights of Associated Press, from
descending to the “gross impertinence” of dishing up
half a column of gossip, cabled from London, about
“our King’s private life” and insinuating with a
conditional “if” —that it might cost him his crown.
The stuff was printed on November 30. In the
Sydney “Morning Herald” it was attributed to “Our
Special Representative.” The germ of it was “the
rumored desire of the King to marry Mrs. Simpson.”
From this “a sensational crop of rumors” had shot
up; one of the “more sensational” was that “if the
King intends to marry, and persists in his intention,
the combined opposition of the Conservative party
and the Church of England might drive him to
abdication.”
Presumably this triumph of the New Journalism
was delivered to all the morning newspapers subscrib-
ing to Associated Press. It did not appear in the
Melbourne “Age” or the Adelaide “Advertiser.” It
did appear in the Melbourne “Argus,” with a con-
eluding paragraph which the Sydney “Morning
Herald” did not publish:
Responsible newspapers in Great Britain never
mention the subject, but it is one of the liveliest subjects
of conversation among the millions of people in London.
“Responsible newspapers in Great Britain” soon
chose to “mention the subject,” and when they did
it must have been known in Britain that respon-
sible newspapers in one of our great overseas
Dominions” had mentioned it.
On December 1 there was a diocesan conference
at which the Bishop of Bradford criticised a sugges-
tion, made by the Bishop of Birmingham when
preaching in the Chapel Royal at St. James’s Palace
on November 1, that the form of the Coronation
service should be changed, “especially in regard to
Holy Communion.” The Bishop of Bradford pro-
tested that without the sacrament the ceremony would
be reduced to “the level of a mere piece of national
pageantry, like a review,” inasmuch as there would
be no “self-dedication of the King.”
On that it would be improper to say anything except
to commend him to God’s grace, which he will so
abundantly need if he is to do his duty faithfully. We
hope that he is aware of his need. Some of us wish
that lie gave more positive signs of such awareness.
This was taken to be a reference to “the rumored
desire of the King to marry Mrs. Simpson,” and
next morning half a dozen North of England news-
papers came out with solemn articles backing up
the bishop.
London journals issued on December 2 reported
the episcopal speech without comment. The
comment broke out in full force on December 3.
That morning all the newspapers carried reports to
the effect that the Prime Minister had advised the
King to announce publicly that he did not propose
to marry, and warned him that if this advice were
rejected the Ministers who tendered it would resign
and the leader of the Opposition, Major Attlee, would
not accept a commission to form a Government. At
the same time the bishop who had brought matters
to a crisis of a sort without precedent in British
history plaintively announced that nothing had been
further from his intention: that when he wrote his
speech he was ignorant of the King’s private life,
and that he had meant to say only that his Majesty
did not go to church!
Then, while an Empire wondered, there were
anxious conferences at No. 10 Downing-street and
at Buckingham Palace, a swift gathering of the royal
family at London, the departure of Mrs. Simpson
for the Continent and a meeting of the House of
Commons. At this Mr. Baldwin uttered a few grave
sentences to the effect that no Constitutional difficulty
had thus far arisen and at that juncture there was
no more to be said.
Then there were more consultations between the
King and his Ministers; and another meeting
of the House of Commons was summoned. It lasted
only a few minutes; but even before it ended mem-
bers felt that the sun of Edward the Eighth was
setting. . Mr. Baldwin addressed himself to the
question of a morganatic marriage, and said it would
require legislation which neither his Government nor,
as he understood, the Governments of the Dominions
were prepared to introduce.
It was reserved for the N.Y. “Times,” one of the
representative American papers which did not exploit
the Mrs. Simpson affair with sickening vulgarity, to sug-
gest that the British press contributed to the unhappy
sequel by suppressing the facts and withholding all
comment until it was too late. It is an unanswer-
able indictment, and, on other counts, Dominion
newspapers are not exempt from blame; nor did
the British Government exhibit any recognisable
savoir-faire while the situation was developing.
Throughout the miserable “sanctions” business
the British Government kept in touch with news-
papers and press agencies. It could surely have
arranged for the publication, at an appropriate
moment, of articles in a sufficient number of respon-
sible Empire newspapers advising his Majesty in
respectful language that marriage with Mrs. Simpson
was out of the question. Not because the lady is
an American —the vast majority of his subjects would
have rejoiced had his choice of a mate fallen on a
free and frank young Yankee maiden —but because
she has two husbands living and is even now her
second’s wife in the eyes of the law. Because such a
marriage could not be celebrated by a clergyman
belonging to the church of which the King is head
and would not in any case be recognised by millions
of honest people ; because it would leave the Church
of England without a head and the Government with
the formidable task of disestablishing it; and because
it would weaken the influence of the Crown every-
where when it is immensely important that the influ-
ence of the Crown should be preserved, and, if
possible, increased.
As things fell out, only flapper fodder appeared
in the few newspapers that referred to the subject
(all Dominion, and nearly all Canadian and Aus-
tralian) till the situation had got out of hand. So,
underlying regrets at the plight of a very
attractive, if very unconventional, King is the feel-
ing that the issue between private inclination and
public duty could have been far more weightily put
to him when he had ample time to choose. ,
There is a great deal of affection in the royal
family. Eleven months ago a common impulse
stirred the four brothers to pass a winter night on
guard beside the coffin of the King their father.
Should circumstances bring about a change in their
relations, there is no reason to doubt that the
brother who was then first will step down from the
throne without resentment, and that the brother who
was second will mount it with regret. In his out-
look on life and in his devotion to duty, the second
son of King George greatly resembles his father,
and his Scottish wife is well qualified in every respect
to follow Queen Victoria, Queen Alexandra and
Queen Mary.
A Shabby Record.
Long before the war it was plain to all Londoners
and visitors to London that the motor-bus would
triumph over the tram in the world’s greatest city.
In Australian cities the motor-bus began its con-
quering career very late, largely because the tramway
systems were owned by public bodies or by com-
panies under sentence of death. A blight settles on
transport wherever it is owned or in danger of being
owned by the Government.
In Sydney the reply of the socialistic politician
and the Government transport boss to inquiries as
to why there were not more motor-buses about was:
“Oh, the people have trams, and they are going to
have a city railway, and they can have motor-cars if
they can afford to buy them. Trams ought to be
good enough for those who haven’t cars.”
But after the war motor-buses began to make
their presence felt in Sydney. Some of them were
introduced by Diggers, and they caught on imme-
diately. By June 30, 1930, the buses supplying
Sydney with modern services were valued, with plant
and equipment, at £618,000. During that year they
ran 19,927,783 miles, carried 94,481,982 passengers
and earned revenue amounting to £1,540,400, of
which £1,398,100 was expended—largely in wages and
taxes.
Sydney is a far-flung place in which speed, con-
venience and comfort are necessary ingredients of
street transport. The buses provided all; as popu-
lation and outer-suburban settlement grew, the roar-
ing and lumbering Government trams increasingly
failed to do so.
Then came Mr. Lang with his Transport Co-
ordination Act. Since 1913, Mr. Lang has represented
electorates in which the Government railwaymen’s
vote is all-important. In all his vicissitudes he has
been supported by the Government Tramwaymen’s
Union. Besides, the Government railway and tram-
way accounts had drifted into an appalling condition.
With unholy glee Mr. Lang set out to “make a
Government monopoly of the whole of the trans-
port system.” By means of swingeing taxes and actual
prohibitions, he caused most of the motor-buses, as
well as many of the motor-lorries owned by common
carriers, to disappear from the highways. Straight-
way hundreds of men whose crime was that they
had served the public too well had to go on the dole.
The Transport Co-ordination Bill was introduced
on June 18, 1931. Within twelve months N. S. Wales
had had enough of Mr. Lang to last it a lifetime.
He was dismissed by Governor Game and his party
was routed at the polls. One of the election cries of
the winners was “We’ll put the buses back on the
roads.”
They put some of the buses back. The Govern-
ment monopoly and the transport-strangulation policy
remain. Notwithstanding the monopoly and the
reduction of £1,200,000 in annual outlay by the
Bruce conversions, the railways still show huge losses,
For the tramways a small annual profit is claimed
(£57,272 in 1934-35), but the trams have become
noisier and less convenient than ever. If the value
of time lost through the city traffic blocks they cause
could be measured and compared with the annual
profit (which, of course, includes no provision for
taxes) the latter would seem like a drop in the bucket.
One feature has been added —a Government Bus
Department. There was none in Mr. Lang’s day.
When introducing his Transport Co-ordination Bill
Mr. Lang was asked whether the authority he
was setting up would have “power to run its own
vehicles.” “It will,” he replied, “but I don’t for a
moment anticipate that that will happen.” Neither
did those who listened to the cry “We’ll put the buses
back on the roads,” for it came from an anti-socialist
Government.
The Government Bus Department is a one-man
show. It is run by the Commissioner for Road Trans-
port, and the anti-socialist Government lets him do
what he likes..
The U.A.P. promise to “put the buses back on the
roads” was so ill-performed that on June 30, 1935.
value of private buses and equipment had slumped to
£113,700. And assets are constantly diminishing, as
private buses are “taken over” by the Government
whenever the Commissioner is in a “taking-over
mood. The process is facilitated by the fact that bus
proprietors can operate only on prescribed routes
and under annual licenses which can be withdrawn
at three months’ notice, and have to submit regular
reports of revenue and expenditure, with the numbe,
of miles run and passengers carried for checks. When
their businesses are seized their buses are paid for
at their value second-hand, plus a possible increas-.
up to 25 p.c. There is no allowance for goodwill,
though a man may have developed his business out
of nothing and worked it up for 15 years.
Not counting Commonwealth Government
officers or persons in State Government jobs classi-
fied as temporary, N. S. Wales had on June, 19-
(no later figures have been published), 71,990 Go\-
ernment employees, all qualifying for superannua-
tion payments to which the taxpayers must contri-
bute. How the public can gain from additions to
the number to do what private citizens are doin.-
sufficiently well it is impossible to understand, bu.
the anti-socialist Government is making the additions
or allowing them to be made.
On June 30, 1935, its Government bus stall
numbered 581. The number of buses in daily service
was 101, so there were nearly six men to every bus.
“We operate 312 buses with 607 employees,” said tne


representatives of the bus proprietors. “Our costs per
bus-mile are 9}d., the department’s are 15£d. It
claimed a profit of £9748 in 1934-35; but it pays
no taxes; we pay in taxes double its profit. And
our men get full award rates of pay ; 12£ p.c. has
been deducted from the wages of State bus employees
under the Salaries Reduction Act.”
To all this, the department did not reply—not
directly. But within two or three weeks it had given
notice of intention to take over another 10 p.c. of
private services. Some of the men doomed to
expropriation are returned soldiers —one has had his
buses on the roads since 1919. Their licenses were
renewed on a Friday and they read about the can-
cellation ndxt morning.
In the matter of motor-buses the Stevens crowd
has a sorry and shabby record.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Bruce and Mr. Lyons.
Early in his second year as Prime Minister, Mr.
Bruce had trouble with Mr. P. G. Stewart, one of
the Country-party Ministers. Mr. Stewart —a stub-
born, though very likeable, fellow —wanted to do
things in his own way, regardless of Cabinet policy
and responsibility. He had mare followers among
the Victorian Agrarians than Mr. Paterson has ever
had ; nevertheless, Mr. Bruce sacked him.
The dismissal was pronounced when the Nat.-
C.P. alliance was scarcely 18 months old. Mr. Bruce
was then 41 and had been only six years in politics,
so his position was vulnerable. But that did not
deter him from doing what he thought right.
Did the other C.P. Ministers follow their col-
league out of the Cabinet? No ; they ate out of
the P.M.’s hand. Another C.P. man was put in the
vacant place and the Government carried on for
another live years.
That was leadership. Raw as he was then, Aus-
tralia always got leadership from Mr. Bruce. It gets
none from Mr. Lyons. Mr. Lyons is not a leader’s
bootlace.
Had Mr. Bruce been in Mr. Lyons’s place when
Mr. Paterson had Mrs. Freer excluded from Australia
on “moral” grounds, and made a bad business worse
by attacking her reputation, under cover of Parlia-
mentary privilege, without producing a tittle of
evidence, Mr. Paterson would not have retained his
post for a day. Indeed, he would never have been
allowed, as Minister, to say what he said about the
woman in the House, much less write to Mr. Walter
Hunt for “corroboration.” It is easy to imagine
what an icy reception Mr. Bruce would have given
to any threat that all the C.P. Ministers would quit
if the Minister of the Interior were dismissed. Mr.
Lyons surrendered to this form of intimidation.
With nearly all the Great Dailies hurling foul
scorn at the Government, and with the only two
Ministers whose views count for anything in public
estimation imploring the P.M. to admit that a great
wrong had been done to Mrs. Freer and to place her
in a position to vindicate her reputation, Mr. Lyons
gave it out that the exclusion must stand. Not
because it was right, but because it was expedient
for Ministers to “stick together.”
It became known that the lady was returning to
Australia—as she did, with the result that the habeas-
corpus application was refused and she had to return
to M.L. —so the Government set to work to get the
rest of the bills on the business-paper passed in an
inchoate mass, so that Parliament might be out of
action when she arrived.
Ip this ignoble task it succeeded. Parliament —
always submissive on these occasions—was got out of
the way. Members packed their bags and fled
from Canberra, leaving the trade war with Japan
unsettled and the King’s business to move to its
climax, though the climax might palpably require
instant legislation.
“Parliament :ry government is in peril,” cries
Mr. Menzies. It is ; and it is Cabinets like his that
are imperilling it.
The Copper Cops It.
N. S. Wales police have again got it well and truly
in the neck. Following on the announcement a week
earlier that 18 members of the force had been dis-
missed during the year for unsatisfactory conduct
towards citizens, 22 more were suspended when the
S.P. Betting Commissioner’s report was handed in
last week. Since then 15 of these —three of them
sergeants—have been dismissed.
The royal commissioner (Judge Markell), while
commenting scathingly on the actions of some of
the police and rightly insisting that police must be
honest and fair, made one or two points that tend
to be overlooked in the general reaction to the report.
One was that in the six years before his inquiry
opened there had been 20,000 prosecutions for illegal
betting, but only 27 cases were brought up for investi-
gation. That is not much more than one in a thou-
sand, and if any of the other 999’s had felt aggrieved
they could have brought their cases along without
cost, the Government footing the bill.
Another point was that, though illegal betting
is heavily punishable by law, it carries no disgrace
in the minds of the general community. Police
Commissioner Mackay —who is in the U.S.A. study-
ing the main ingredients of gangster fiction or some-
thing of the kind while these things are happening
to his force—estimated that 75 p.c. of the populace
could see nothing wrong in starting-price betting.
Inspector Russell reckoned this figure too low.
Most people will agree with Inspector Russell;
and it is this huge weight of public opinion which is
unconsciously, or otherwise, gratified to see the police
—the “enemies” in this matter —getting what the
gratified persons themselves continuously run the risk
of having handed out to them. But to say that this
big majority of the community “sees nothing wrong in
starting-price betting” is putting it far too mildly.
There is nothing so negative about it. Wagering their
few bob on a horse is regarded by most of them as
a right: that this does not make it Right is beside
the point.
Mr. Stevens and his rather earnestly pious legis-
lators are frightfully shocked that there could pos-
sibly be such goings-on in the police force as Judge
Markell’s inquiry made evident. The police— -rightiy
enough on the findings—are immediately punished ;
and a certain tawdry kudos attaches itself to the
prompt-dealing legislators. Thereupon, duty done,
the legislators can sit back and get such satisfaction
as they may from contemplating legislation that no-
body in his senses believes can ever be a remedy,
a preventive or anything else better than a pinprick-
ing subterfuge.
There is one way in which starting-price betting
can be stopped ; but it does not commend itself to
makeshift legislators. It is simply prohibition of the
publication of all racing information and comment
before race meetings, the first information made avail-
able before races to be that contained in the race-
books sold on the courses. That is drastic, but
it would do the job. The only honest alter-
native would be an admission of what everybody
knows to be fact —that there is scarcely a single big
building in Sydney in which starting-price agents do
not operate —and the setting up of controlled,
licensed betting shops.
The existing legislation, in addition to being hope-
less, is vicious. Under it the temptations of bribery
are obvious, and Judge Marked reports that some
members of the force are not above framing
charges under it for their personal advantage.
It is unfair to the police to ask them to give effect
to legislation of this poor sort. Judge Marked
properly directed attention to what he called —too
softly at that—the “extreme difficulty” of their task
and to the precautions taken by police authorities
and superiors to prevent abuses in carrying out duties
imposed by a law which is “apparently powerless
to stop” what it is intended to stop.
Such matters as these are clouded over, together
with the good conduct and excellent service of the
police generally, when, as has happened, the report
is swooped on and sensationally presented by the
flapper press, and when, as has also happened, the
legislators who ask the police to do the impossible
swing their righteous axe with hardly a word for
the conduct of the police as a whole.
There is one serious widespread defect in our
police—’the bumptious officiousness of too many
of them towards decent citizens, and the milder the
citizens the bigger the bumptiousness. But that is
not to be overcome by making scapegoats of them.
Settlement?
Launched as the previous session was closing, the
trade war with Japan was announced to have been
settled, except for a few trifling details, as the Gov-
ernment was scurrying into recess last week.
The wool trade had taken it for granted for
some time that agreement would be reached. Not
because of any faith in Mr. Gullett as a negotiator
but because of the belief that conditions would force
his hand.
Towards the middle of October the speculator
began to come into the market. At Sydney average
prices rose from 14.5 d. Australian in the week to
October 31 to 18d. in the week to November 28.
One big speculative buyer took thousands of bales.
But at the end of November reaction began to set
in, and after the first day of the Brisbane sales there
was considerable irregularity.
Prophets who looked to the Auckland sales to reveal
what Australia has been missing were not far wrong.
Prices at December M.L. sales last year averaged
£l2 12s. per bale. They opened this year at £2O
per bale on a firming market. The Japanese were
“operating almost without limit,” and their bidding
“was too hot for Bradford.”
It suggests that, in the difference between prices
realised and prices that could have been realised, the
Australian wool industry has paid several million
pounds for tne privilege of having Mr. Gullett as
Trade-Treaty Minister. What annual reduction of
Japanese purchases will cost Australia cannot be
calculated with any approach to accuracy as yet.
Forward, Mr. Paterson!
For those who like education tests there is more and
more sturdy work to be done on the imported maga-
zine—the kind of magazine which is sold as pulp in
U.S.A. and which it pays Australians trading in the
stuff to open special shops to sell.
In one window in Sydney, 28 of the atrocities
were displayed last week. One openly bore the title
“Horror Magazine.” Its cover decoration consisted
of a highly-colored picture of which the central
figure was a scared young woman with nothing on.
She was enclosed in a glass cylinder into which a
gleeful-looking person was assiduously pumping
poison gas. Near by, a pale and distraught villain
with a beard like a mulga was engaged in pointing
an automatic at her.
Another cover design showed a young woman
face downwards on a bed. She was garbed in a
pink evening-dress, and a gentleman of original aspect
was compelling her to write something on a sheet
of paper. The poor girl had a substantial rope round
her neck (knot under the left ear), the other end
being tied round her ankles. The gentleman was
engaged in pressing down her ankles with one hand
while presenting a knife a couple of feet long at her
uncovered chest. Of the remaining 26 covers on
view, only two were not ornamented with paintings
of men shooting women or women shooting men,
and the words “Sex Crime . . . Love Nest . . . Six
Murders in Six Minutes” and other attractive phrases
trailed right across the window.
Half a dozen gloating youngsters were enjoying
their lunch-hour taking in the details.
The Government at Canberra, which has cen-
sored everything and everybody else, lets this offal
come in by the ton.
Not at AN Victorian.
Except in one particular, six o’clock closing, Victorian
licensing laws and administration are a model to
the world. The Victorian example has, in fact, been
followed in other Australian States; but N. S. Wales
has recently witnessed an amazing departure from it.
Licenses which have ceased to be valuable,
because the district is overpubbed or for some other
reason, cannot be transferred to other districts in
Victoria ; they can be in N. S. Wales. Of recent
months one has been transferred in this way to a
.block of flats in King’s Cross; another to Wallacia
and another to Katoomba.
The Katoomba case has been brought under
public notice by the prospectus of a company seeking
a large amount of public capital for the establish-
ment of a hotel. One of the directors is Trautwein,
M.L.C., the gentleman who has been condemned by
the High Court to pay a huge sum, representing tax
on income “omitted” from his taxation papers over
a term of years and fines imposed by the Taxation
Department.
In the prospectus, as advertised, these words
appear:—
Consideration.
The consideration for the purchase of the hotel license
is 19,500 fully-paid-up shares of £1 each. The price
paid for the license is reasonable from the company’s
standpoint and, according to expert opinions, somewhat
less than its actual value.
Valuation of License.
Having considered that the present liquor law
debars the granting of new licenses, and the population
of Katoomba, and the fact that there are now only
three licensed houses there, I value the license attached
to the new hotel building at Twenty-three thousand
pounds (£23,000).
W. Le Brun Brown,
Ex-chairman, Licenses Reduction Board.
If the transferred license is worth £23,000 to
private persons before a brick is laid, it is worth
that much to the State, and the State should be
getting it.
"Modernising" Melbourne.
“D.L.”: More efficient transport facilities, with less
noise and traffic congestion, are sought by Melbourne
men with businesses in Bourke-street.
Electric tramway systems are being replaced by
the trolley-bus in more than 30 U.K. cities. Even
in the narrow streets of Ipswich it has been proved
that two-way trolley-bus services do not interfere
with ordinary vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
S’African towns like Johannesburg are scrapping their
electric trams. Melbourne, like Sydney, goes on clut-
tering up the middle of its streets with trams nearly
as antiquated as the cable cars they are banishing.
Overseas cities are fighting noise ; the trolley-bus
has none of the clatter and clang of electric trams.
But noise is no concern of the Melbourne Tram-
ways Board ; its “imperious, hidebound despots” are
to be equipped with loudspeakers through which will
be broadcast the names of approaching streets. If
these are to be audible above the usual clatter, shop
and office workers and suburban residents will have
another noise nuisance.
Inspector Duncan, the Scotland Yard man
reporting on Victoria’s police, says Melbourne traffic
congestion could be solved easily because the streets
are generally wide. City traffic congestion will last
just as long as electric trams occupy the middle of
these streets.
The Dignity of Parliament.
Australian legislators who stand on their dignity
are apt to make a mess of it. Queensland’s one-House
Legislature recently did the thing really well. During
the hearing of the Baker-“Courier-Mail” appeal case
one of the Judges had offered sundry comments on
professional politicians; these, among others:
Before professional politicians came members were
men of strength, expressing their own views. Now
Parliamentarians do what others decide they must do.
There are men living on the game. I do not know what
they get out of Parliament, but that is not the point.
His Honor the Speaker remarked from his
place in Parliament that the observations of his
Honor the Judge were “incorrect, undignified and
unwarranted.”
Many times during the session I have been called
upon to protect their Honors the Judges by preventing
discussions upon matters which have been under adjudi-
cation by the various Courts so that their deliberations
might remain free and untrammelled. It is but right that
all Judges should show equal and proper respect to the
Legislature, which is the highest tribunal in the State.
His Honor said either too much or too little.
That cannot be said of the Speaker’s reply. It
contained not one inappropriate or excessive word.
And then the Parliament defended so admirably
must go and vote £l5O p.a. on to the salaries of
Ministers and members and date it back to July 1,
thus giving each gentleman a Christmas box of £75.!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“S.T.S.”: Prof. Kerr Grant, of Adel-
aide University, has no time for water-
diviners or people who believe in them.
In a recent “Advertiser” article, “Falla-
cies and Illusions,” he asserts that, after
looking into the matter for 30 years, he
finds “the case [against the dowser’s art]
overwhelmingly convincing as to its utter
futility,” and suggests flippantly that the
rod “might be employed with equal
efficacy to pick winners, predict the
weather or cure unemployment.” He
adds two acid comments, one from the
“English Mechanic”: “To see the water-
diviners walking about, a few feet above
a mass of water —running water, too —
and not being able to detect it, was ex-
quisitely funny.” The second is from a
N.S.W. Water Conservation report: “Of
56 bores located with the aid of the
divining-rod, 70 per cent, were success-
ful ; of those sunk without its aid, 87
per cent, were successful.”
•fc
“O’G.”: Kingsford Smith, Hinkler,
Ulm, Melrose, Macgregor (M.L.) and
how many more famous fliers have,
passed on in the last year or two!
Nearly all of them who were great names
five years ago have gone out. Men
only, be it noted—not the ladies! Can
any at all of the timid and hysterical
sex’s top-liners be named in the caval-
cade of crashes? Amy and Jean are
going stronger than ever; ditto Beryl
Markham (first woman alone across the
Atlantic), Mrs. Miller, Nancy Bird (fly-
ing sick children and what not in the
outback), Mrs. Putnam (she did the stiff
hop from U.S.A. to Honolulu), Lady
Young (of sundry African flights ; even
when she crashed on one of them there
were nice natives at hand to rescue her),
Freda Thompson (who had a crash or
two on the way from England to Aus-
tralia* and was lost in the inland wilds
for a time), Fraulein Beinhorn, and an-
other half dozen or so. And, while
we’re about it, how does the record of
women motor-car drivers compare with
the men’s? Joke-mongers ought to be
able to answer this one, judging by one
of the most prolific stock lines in their
arsenal.
* * * *
“Effectual Calling”: Am amazed at
the statement that John Knox and other
divines of his day regarded women with
“undisguised aversion” (B. 25/11/’36).
John certainly fulminated against them
in print, but his practice was different;
he was married three times, twice to
women much younger than himself, and
his friendship with coteries of elderly
ladies was notorious in his day. No
mid-Victorian curate was such a devil
among the teacups as was John at these
minor conversaziones, at which he was
usually the only male present.
♦ * * *
“Adelaide”: To prevent hawking of
shares, the S.A. Government in 1934 pro-
hibited offering them “from house to
house.” Offices not being barred, the
first man charged under the Act has
argued that farmers—though the law
seems to have been aimed specially at
protecting them —don’t count under it,
their homes being used for business pur-
poses and therefore becoming offices.
The Court said tersely “There is no
doubt that a farmhouse is a house. Ten
pounds, or one month.”
“Spot”: With or without “a few in,"
try to say these lines from Lewis. Carroll’s
“Jabberwocky” in Alice in Wonder-
land: —
’Twas briilig, and the slithy toves
Did gyre and gimble in the wabc;
All mimsy were the Borogoves
And the mome laths outgrabe.
That was the test a merchant of Calcutta
and Burma, accused in England recently
of being drunk while in charge of a
motor-car, set the police doctor and his
own doctor. They admitted he made no
mistakes in the word-tests “British Con-
stitution,” “The Leith police conveneth
us” and “The Leith police dismisseth us,”
but they frankly acknowledged that they
failed over his test. The counsel, read-
ing from his brief, stumbled over the
lines when cross-examining one of the
doctors. Case dismissed.
* * * *
“Bow Bells”: The, Crystal Palace, which
has gone up in smoke, was of course
the successor of the similarly-named
huge structure in Hyde Park where the
Great Exhibition of 1851 was held. After
that had run its course in four or five
months, the materials were sold for
£70,000, and a million-pound company
was floated to re-erect the Palace in
more spacious surroundings. Some idea
of the size of the original C.P. may be
gathered from the item that on one day
“Yes, it is the missus. She says when in Rome do as the Romans do!
in October, 1851, there were 93,000
persons collected within a windowed and
floored and roofed building. “There is
no record,” wrote a historian of the
period, “in either ancient or modern
annals of so many people having
gathered together in one room.” I
wonder if that claim still holds good.
“D.8.K.”: The burned Crystal Palace
will hold war-time memories for many.
From 1916 it was an enormous training
school for Royal Naval Volunteer Re-
serve and Royal Naval Air Service per-
sonnel. Within its glass-encompassed
bulk thousands of recruits got their first
insight into the meaning of discipline.
As a rookie from the North of England,
I reported on an early morn, soaked to
the skin, anxious to qualify as a flying
man. Under the eagle eye and strident
tones of a long-service C.P.0., we were
formed into fours and marched up and
down unceasingly until the steam rose
from our soaked garments in clouds and
we dried out. In the air raids, German
Gotha squadrons bombing London
somehow always gave the Palace a miss.
Yet on a bright moonlit night it must
have been a glittering mass from above.
It possibly served as an excellent land-
mark for determining bearings.
“Fancar”: “E.E.” (B. 18/11f36) com-
ments on the Irish word “street,’ whicn
makes several appearances in All That
Swagger, and suggests that “sthrell
would be a more correct spelling, but
John O’Brien in Round the Boree Log
favored that used by Miss Franklin:
Och, Norah O'Neill is a streel,
I’m talking the way that I feel.
Norah, it seems, had continually exas-
perated priest and verger by turning up
late to confession, and the poet assumed
that the lady “with skirt bobbing over
her heel” would be equally remiss on
the Day of Judgment.
♦ * * *
“Lost Yacht”: Government ships and
Government aircraft will always be sent
to seek lost yachts and lost fliers as
long as sentiment exists in the human
make-up. But why not do as the French
do with would-be Sahara fliers, and
make the venturesome ones put up a
bond to cover the cost of a possible
search? No bond, no take-off is the
rule there, unless the applicants are
willing to fly beside the ’plane of the
regular Government mail service. Some-
thing of the sort would be equally prac-
ticable here when either scacraft or air-
craft arc obviously unsuitable for the
job.
* t * * *
“C. Mac”: Ridiculed for the past 50-
odd years in tilts at “It must be true —
I saw it in the paper” print nevertheless
maintains its unparalleled power over
the human mind. Even such palpable
rubbish as Our Glorious Press served
out in the late Abyssinian affair—-“so
short of ammunition that they are filling
cartridge cases with the heads of
matches” —was not too much for human
credulity. Equally nonsensical stuff,
though a shade more subtle, formed the
inspiration and substance of ponder-
ously solemn professorial lectures and
leading articles. It goes on daily ; the
serving out of surmises as facts has be-
come a commonplace of journalism. Once
this sort of thing was done occasionally
for the sake of “running a good story” ;
the staggering part about it now is that
nobody believes the tripe they dish out —
especially all overseas tripe—more con-
fidently than journalists themselves. Any-
one who puts in an evening in any city
daily’s “literary” hive will see and hear
ample evidence of this. The only way to
read the papers to-day is to discount by
50 p.c. everything printed.
♦ * * *
• “Hassan Pasha' 5 : That yarn about
opening crown seal bottles with the teeth
(B. 2/12/*36) reminds me. After the
Evacuation Light Horse regiments
patrolled the western border of Egypt,
and officers were instructed to cultivate
friendly relations with the local sheiks
and other notables. One of these in-
vited a friend and myself to dinner. It
was served Europe fashion, our host
buzzing round and superintending. Pres-
ently bottled beer was brought in and
the usual inquiry made. A vast Nubian
who had been looming in the back-
ground stepped forward, grabbed a
bottle and twisted the seal off with h* s
magnificent teeth before pouring out the
drink. We’d been warned to avoid
offending the susceptibilities of the
Moslems, and I carried on. My mate
was a teetotaller, and his insistence that
I finish the bottle and his attempt to
have another opened caused a distinct
coolness between us on the ride home.
* ♦ * *
“C. Coral”: Touching the incident of
Midshipman George Stewart of the
Bounty (B. 11/11f36), it is probable that
he would have been placed in the boat
with Bligh had there been room. It was
one of the ironies of fate that the young-
ster of 16 was left with the mutineers ;
it is not at all unlikely that he was a
relation of Bligh.
♦ ♦ *
“M.R.P.”: Another “view mat.” advt.
with a glimmer of originality appeared
recently in Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Lonely Leonard in the list of his finer
qualities had included a pathetic “height,
sft. 2in.” In an age of towering young
Amazons it takes something for a man
to admit he’s such a “come-under-me-
arm.”
“Moreton”: Queensland Parliament
won't be the same without Jimmy Stop-
ford. At an early stage of his first
election for Maryborough, when he had a
majority of one (his own vote) “Stoppy”
announced jovially to the waiting crowd
that he was taking his majority across
to the pub. to have a drink. When he
was Home Secretary, “Stoppy” used to
visit the gaols just before Christmas and
hand out remissions to prisoners whose
sentences had nearly run out. One man
pleaded that Christmas was a bad time
to let him loose as he would meet too
many friends. “Stoppy” sent him away
to the country under supervision; but
the victim of mistaken kindness was
back in his old home early in the new
year. One of the Minister s acts, of
clemency nearly got him into serious
trouble. The Governor, Sir Matthew
Nathan, was a stickler for Constitutional
procedure. He insisted that remissions
of sentences should not be granted until
they had been approved by him. Forget-
ting this, “Stoppy” made a drastic cut in
the sentence of a long-termer. At the
next Executive Council meeting the
Governor asked sharply who had
authorised this. On the spur of the
moment “Stoppy” told a long story:
the prisoner, he said, was really a decent,
hardworking man who was the victim
of unfortunate circumstances ; his wife
was dying, his children were starving,
his home was about to be sold up, and
only his immediate release could save
the situation. It was a most pathetic
recital, and the Governor signed the
order for release with tears in his eyes.
Afterwards, Theodore (then Premier)
remarked to Stopford that it was a good
job he was so intimately acquainted with
the facts of the case. “I’d never heard
of the fellow before in my life,” said
“Stoppy” cheerfully.
“Petrie”: One of the stories which
Jimmy Stopford, Queensland’s dead
Mines Minister, used to delight in telling
was about a visit to Government House
when Lieutenant-Governor William Len-
non lived there in lonely grandeur.
Theodore had suggested that Ministers
should go out from time to time and
cheer the potentate up. Stopford col-
lected a few of the wilder spirits of the
party ’and drove out to Government
House. There they took charge and spent
a night of hilarity, which horrified the
English butler and moved the Lieuten-
ant-Governor to protest that he would
rather be lonely than be a party to such
proceedings. Theodore banned further
visits of the kind.
OF
Of course, all wc Girls are excited!
We just talk of nothing but!
And Gladys, who's only just plighted
Her Troth with her Beau—quite a knut 1 —
She Says that before any Palace
She’d rather have Love in a Hut!
But Aggie (she’s scrawny!) and Alice
(She's forty!) say: Don’t be a Mutt!
Of course, it’s stupendously thrilling,
With Pictures and Headlines galore!
/ think they were perfectly killing —
I mean the sweet frocks that She wore
When Cruising, I think, the Atlantic,
Or some lovely place. And what’s more —
Though this isn’t reely Romantic —
They say She’s been married before l
Of course, it has shocked the Old Fogies,
Like fuggy old Baldy—you bet ! —
And Lyons—in fact, all our Yogis—•
And “Granny” is all of a sweat!
But I say, Well, if He is ready,
And if She is reely a Pet,
And if it is Fate —Good luck, Teddy . ..
And hang out a Notice “To Let.”
N.S.W.
O. TRUELOVE.


“Moz”: A barrage is being built
across the Murray mouth near Goolwa
(S.A.), and visitors to the construction
camp near by are shown Zell Row.
Built of whitewashed iron, the shanties
in this row are all named with words
ending in Zell: Otazell, Appiazell, Cold-
azell, Ruffazell and Sandiazell. It was
the last three when I was there.
s*: 5 * : *Jc
“Old Lag”: Despite “Lifer” earlier
to the contrary, I can support “Likell”
(B. 2/12/’36) in declaring that some Aus-
tralian gaols still sport barred windows
other than above the cell door; Fre-
mantle, for instance. And what about
the old Geelong gaol from which Angus
Murray escaped in August, 1923, by
sawing through 12 bars of square
wrought iron? The old Geelong bastille
may since have gone into the discard,
but if “Lifer” comes west we can show
him some quite modern boobs still
adhering to the barred window of tradi-
tion.
'*' H* ❖ %
Mat’s Mate”: It’s an ingrained habit
of being non-committal that makes bush-
folk hesitate about exact answers (B.
25/11/’36). “Think it’ll rain?” “Aw, I
dunp'.;'. Looks like it,” is as near as
you’ll get outback, because bushmen are
quick to jump heavily on the discredited
prophet. Same, with distances ; every
bushman likes to be thought a good judge
of them, but hates to be proven wrong,
so is careful to be ambiguous. You'll
get that non-committal answer to every-
thing except an invitation to come and
have one —and even then it may be a
lukewarm “Don’t mind if I do.”
J * ; ❖ sH
‘Nor’-west”: The quaintest pearl,
apart from the Southern Cross, ever
lifted from Westralian waters was the
“Shirt Stud” won by Ericksen just out-
side Flying Foam Passage in the days
when Cossack was a pearling port. With
a top of fine, lustre it connected a flat-
rimmed bottom by means of a slender
shank three-sixteenths of an inch in
length, forming a perfect shirt-front stud
for a millionaire. But the sea regained
it before the finder could get his price.
Sheltering under the lee of Jarmon
Island during a terrific cyclone of the
middle ’nineties, Ericksen’s lugger sank
at its moorings, to be cast ashore hours
later, battered and gutted, not even hold-
ing the bodies of the luckless owner, his
wife and child.
“C. G. Sal is”: “Eques” (B. 28/11 /’36)
has mixed up his Persian emperors.
When Colonel Farr described General
C'hauvel as “the most excellent cavalry
leader since Darius,” he obviously was
referring to Darius 1., who ruled Persia
from 521 to 485 b.c. and extended the
empire eastward to India-, north as far
as the Volga and westward to Thrace
before he was defeated at Marathon (490
b.c.). It was Darius 111. who was inglori-
ously routed by Alexander the Great at
Arbela (331 8.c.). To describe Chauvel
as the greatest cavalryman since Darius
is, however, a bit too much. Genghis
Khan and Attila were probably the most
successful leaders of mounted troops
who ever afflicted the world. They both
lived and fought centuries after the great
Persian.
“Apsley”: The classic story of bad
handwriting (B. 25/11/ ’36) relates to the
Duke of Wellington. The famous land-
scape gardener, J. C. Loudin, wrote to
him asking permission to visit Strath-
fieldsaye and see the
Waterloo beeches. The
Duke replied to the
Bishop of London, in-
viting him to come
whenever he liked, add-
ing, “My servant will re-
ceive orders to show you
as many pair of breeches
of mine as you wish ;
but why you should
wish to inspect those I
wore at Waterloo is
quite beyond the com-
prehension of Yours
truly, Wellington.” The
Bishop showed the letter
"Whose idea was it to throw THAT Christian to the lions ?”
to the Archbishop of Canterbury and
other discreet persons, who all came to
the melancholy conclusion that the poor
old Duke was going a bit barmy.
* * * *
“Roier”: “Main Brace” (B. 25/11 /’36)
evidently belongs to that school of
mathematicians which can never under-
stand why flies buzzing round at a couple
of miles an hour in a railway car going
60 are not overtaken by the back wall
of the car and flattened against it. He
can rest assured that a charge fired from
a gun on a ’plane going 400 miles an
hour will leave the muzzle and will not
be overtaken by the ’plane. If the latter
is travelling 400 m.p.h., so is the gun.
"Word ave just been received that Cap'n Tredinnick 'ave passed away.
Let us sing Praise Cod from Whom All Blessins Flow.’ ”
The statement that bullet holes in the
fabric would mean the stripping of the
fabric in a few seconds by the slip-
stream is equally preposterous. Writer
has seen ’planes come down safely with
the wing fabric shot as full of holes as
a colander
“Morita”: No, “Alpha,” I didn’t slip
about the Digger’s hat (B. 25/11 / ’36).
True, the Third Divvy wore them
turned down all round, but my colors
told every Jack I was First Divvy, and
these gentlemen delighted in reminding
us that our divvy wore them turned up ;
also, out of pure cussedness they objected
to our leaving the top buttons of great-
coats undone. Even in Edinburgh I was
ordered to turn up my hat —three times
in the one day by the same pair of
Jacks; finally I showed them there was
no clip to attach the flap to. That
started them off on wilfully damaging
military property, they having seen the
clip earlier in the day, but their threats
were drowned in the icy comments of
a lady friend telling the gathering crowd
just how proud she was of her dad and
brothers doing their bit in France in
tin hats.
* * *
“County”: In his dissertation on rooks
(B. 2/12/’36) “R.N.” omits their out-
standing characteristic —their extreme
social exclusiveness. It is an accepted
fact, in the North of England at least,
that when a family long in possession
of an estate has to leave it, the rooks go
also. I know of only one exception.
This was in the East Riding. An ancient
family were driven out by the succession
duties, and the decision of the rooks to
follow them was hastened when news
came that the new tenants of the manor
were named Snooks. As the rookery
was packing up a huge procession of
furniture and baggage vans turned in at
the lodge gates. A scout sent to inquire
came back with the news that it was
the new family’s baggage all right, but
that the name on the portmanteaux was
spelled “Ssnoulkes.” That rather altered
matters, it was felt, and after consulta-
tion the birds decided to stay.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In columns about Bret
Harte in this centenary year of his birth
the most discerning comment of all came
from Stephen Leacock. It was simply to
the effect that Harte, except of course
when he had to introduce the vernacular
of the Californian mining camps into his
early stories, wrote better English than,
any other American author of his
day. It was a period when Mark Twain,
Artemus Ward and a dozen others
(mostly forgotten nowadays) were busy
with the beginnings of a new American
literature, and they all wrote not only
of new scenes but in a new style, almost
a new language to the great majority
of their English readers. Bret Harte was
the exception ; one could take sentences
from dozens of his tales that for packed
meaning and perfection of phrase could
challenge the work of the greatest Vic-
torian novelists. Yet, by some queer per-
versity of fate, when Harte did go to
England, where he held Consular and
other positions for the last 20 or 30
years of his life, he failed to sustain his
early reputation. The fire of genius
had burned out.
* * * *
“Zed Dee”: The Shadow Showman
writes (B. 11/11/”36) in reference to
Zane Grey’s “White Death”: “But the
film generally, outside authentic pictures
of big-fish chasing, is amateurish.” 1
haven’t seen the film, but I did see some
of it being made, including the redoubt-
able Zane engaged in “big-fish chasing.”
“White Death,” from which the thing
gets its name, is still on the beach at
Hayman—or was when I saw it last.
The ferocious shark was a lump of wood
with a couple of pieces of tin nailed to
it for dorsal fins. Seen as a moving
shadow in the water, when towed by a
launch and with the trade-mark triangles
cutting a ripple, that lump of wood did
its act better than Zane did his.
UNFIT FOR INSPECTION.
“Shorts should certainly not be allowed on the
beaches. How many men’s chests are really fit for
inspection ?” —Newspaper correspondent.
Where high in the “seats of the mighty”
One “takes up the thread of debate,”
Though his colleagues pretend that he bores
them no end,
How they envy his gift to orate!
How they jealously mark every gesture—
The finger aloft and the blow
That rattles the table and might have felled
Abeli
Delivered a long time ago!
But is there a man of them guesses,
Admiring his vigor and zest,
That he’d barter all that to be rid of the mat
Of preposterous hairs on his chest?
And, 10, in the holy of holies —
That is, in the room of the board—
When the chairman declares there’s a bonus on
shares
How they jump to their feet and applaud!
How they “No!” at his modest proposal
That perhaps it is time he retired!
As he fingers the chain on his waistcoat, how
plain
Is the worship his fervor has fired!
And is there a man of them guesses
That under that acre of vest,
Like a hill on the plain, like a ship on the main,
There’s a whopping great wart on his chest?
Where Genius furrows its forehead,
Where laborers flourish the pick,
From the cellar of Bung to the steeplejack hung
In the void from a tottering brick,
How many, alas, are the briskets
’Twere better the eye never knew—
How many in shorts at our bathing resorts
Would scarce be a boon to the view!
Ah, better that nobody guesses
That each one of these and the rest
Who fill the high station of Lords of Creation
Have—Spooner knows what for a chest!
N.S.W.
MACANN.


k
n
A'
10 for 9 l
20/farl'6
WI883
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
C I G A R E TTE OF THIS GENEBAT
POLITICAL POINTS
Queen Victoria, Queen Alexandra,
Queen Mary, Queen “Wally.” No ; it
wouldn’t have done.
“Let injustice be done lest Ministers
fall.”— Canberra version.
Churchills were busy snooping round
last week. One, the viscount, blithered
that the Red militia in Spain “are fight-
ing for Us.” Another, the restless old
intriguer who “planned” Gallipoli, sug-
gested a grand new alliance —with
“Poland and the Baltic countries;
Czechoslovakia, Rumania and Yugo-
slavia,” and, of course, Russia. Turn-
ing to the. King’s business, he said: “If
the King refuses to take the advice of
his Ministers they are free to resign.”
And the King would be “free” to send
for Churchill, of course.
The most idiotic of all proposals for
settling the King’s business was that
Edward VIII. should marry Mrs. Simp-
son as Duke of Cornwall (which he
ceased to be. on ascending the throne),
Parliament to pass an Act refusing the
right of succession to “any issue of the
marriage with ‘the King’s Consort.’ ” It
was hatched in the office of the “News-
Chronicle,” from which came many of
the Abyssinian furphies, and which is
still drawn on for a large proportion of
the foreign “news” with which Australia
is regaled.
There was a record rush at Canberra
so that Parliament might be closed down
before Mrs. Freer arrived. In a sitting
which closed at 1.45 a.m., 19 bills wefe
shot through the House, One chronicler
mentioned that two measures —one the
French Trade Treaty Bill, which involves
scores of debatable items—were passed
through all their stages in 15 minutes.
Australian cement cos. can supply all
the cement Australia requires, and more,
The trade-diversion Government has de-
prived them of protection. On the very
day the duty was removed 1000 tons of
British cement —doubtless consigned by
one of the groups of companies that paid
20 p.c. dividends last year and is ex-
pected to pay 30 p.c. this year —arrived
in Brisbane.
British cement cos. and chain-store
pharmacy cos. have such a tremendous
market in their own country that they
should be above cutting into the rela-
tively small Australian market, which is
already well supplied. Evidently “Live
and let' live” is no part of their policy.
Queensland Labor is restoring 50 p.c.
of the 1929 cuts made in Ministers’ and
members’ salaries. The Government has
the excuse that something of the kind
has been done in the Commonwealth
and every other State; but it has started
the new scale of payments from July 1.
Neither in the Commonwealth nor any
other State has anything like that been
done.
The marketing referendum was to have
been submitted in February. Canberra
is now saying it and the aviation
question will not be put till the end of
March. The necessary bills were passed
in November ; the Constitution requires
the referendum to be held “not less than
two nor more than six months after”
their passage. Canberra had better
forget all about it.
Britain has signed a three-year agree-
ment with Argentina which makes chilled
and lets mutton, lamb and pork come
in free. Argentina guarantees a 5 p.c.
reduction of chilled-beef exports by
gradual—very gradual—stages. There is
nothing in the agreement to warrant Aus-
tralians throwing their hats in the air,
although from time to time Canberra
has bidden them to prepare for that
operation.
TT , „ -j *1 -*u t 1
Uncle Sam evidently agrees with John
Bull that Argentina is a country whose
favors are worth courting. His Presi-
de.l?t has been visiting it, ostensibly to
T al J" »“ the Latm-American republics
m c ? u f °( P eace “ th , eir °i*!
worW, but v«th an eye to bustness as
wa ' l l sre a < T t la hc - 01 . c g
? st P°P ular , w f lc ° m l e T ‘° »
foreign potentate by the Argentines "Die
tlnc t ! o" « as Previously reserved for
Edward VUI - when Edward P '
The day before the Government at
Canberra decided to preserve Paterson
and save its skin and have Mrs. Freer
apprehended by “trusted officers” when
she showed up again in Australia (she
did > and the y conducted her back to the
“Just before the Queensland Parliament adjourned for Christmas, Premier Forgan Smith
introduced a bill (it was passed at a sitting) increasing the salaries of Ministers and members
by £l5O p.a. as from July 1.”
“Ma conscience, a chiel hangs up his sock, and here are ye going through his
pants!”
boat again), it was addressed by its news-
papers in language that no Ministerial
press ever addressed to a Ministry before.
“S. M. Herald” warned it that, although
Australia doesn’t think much of politi-
cians nowadays, “it still expects a Gov-
ernment to refrain from making itself
plainly ridiculous.” Remarks to the same
effect came from Sydney “D.T.,” Mel-
bourne “Age,” Adelaide “Advertiser” and
Brisbane “Courier-Mail.” Presently the
Government will be imploring the
papers which have flayed it for abusing
its powers to help it to get more.
The Westralian Auditor-General has
been looking into the administration of
the half-crown lotteries licensed in that
State. He found that accounts were paid
by cash instead of by cheque; that
the secretary had been allowed £lB
for “entertainment,” £l7 19s. 6d. for
“petty cash, expenses and motor
transport,” and £lO per lottery for
taxis; and that an additional week s
salary and tea-money was paid to
the staff —secretary excepted—for over-
time—ls hours. A brisk debate on these
and other features of the lottery busi-
ness led to the Government promising
monthly audits and periodical reports to
Parliament.
S.A.’s Liberal and C.P. League has
announced its policy on the marketing
referendum. The Libs, are city and the
other gentlemen country, so “between 70
and 80 delegates decided unanimously,
practically without discussion,” that the
League should —“remain neutral”!
Mr. Anthony Eden has assured Bel-
gium that “it can count upon our
help should it ever be the victim of
unprovoked aggression.” This is interest-
ing, though whether it will arrest the
recent tendency of the Belgians to make
their own arrangements is at least doubt-
ful, The Manchester “Guardian” asserts
that “the pledge applies equally to Hol-
land as to France.” If this is so, and
if it means'that Australia is expected to
defend the Dutch possessions to the
north-west of this continent, the Austra-
lian people ought to be told by their
Government —if they have _ a Govern-
ment.
Lang is winning his latest faction fight.
He and his Inner Group have foiled the
efforts of Garden and his pals to get
control of the A.L.P. executive and are
now certain to keep them off the “Labor
Daily” board. Like the Canadian
trooper, Lang always gets his man, but
his party always gets it in the neck at
the same time.
On paper the U.A.P. ought to win
the Darling Downs by-election. In 1934
the late Littleton Groom beat the Labor
man, Alke, by 9722 in a poll of 49,134,
and the Ministerial Senate candidates
scored 28,616 out of 47,159 effective
primary votes. But 1935 brought dis-
aster to the anti-Labor party at the State
election, in Darling Downs subdivisions
as in other parts of Queensland, and
Lyons and party have since lost ground
for other reasons too well known.
Adelaide’s Government was the first
to adjourn for Christmas. The session
was saved from barrenness by the pas-
sage of an electoral-“reform” measure,
reducing Assembly members from 46 to
39 and substituting single electorates for
the old two-member and three-member
divisions. But the thing gives a country
vote two and three times the value of
a city vote, so the pretence that it
amounts to “reform” is a bad joke.
S. A. Lloyd, M.L.A., and the other
two Sydney County Council aldermen
who proposed to give the staff of the
municipal lighting concern a 40-hour
week without reference to the customers
have been told by the Industrial Court
that they can’t do it. Opposition to the
40-hour week is not so keen as it was,
but if it is to arrive it should come as
national policy and not as an expedient
devised by a minor State politician with
two jobs, both shaky. Lloyd is member
for Concord, and at the last election his
majority was only 735 in a poll of
17,862.
Dreadful news for the N.S.W. Rail-
way Department comes from Tasmania.
There, according to the Auditor-General,
the Labor Government has agreed to
make “statutory provision for deprecia-
tion in the railway accounts.”
The sum of £94,000 has been appropri-
ated out of consolidated revenue for that
purpose. This action has my wholehearted
approval except that the provision should
be for an unlimited period and based upon
a definite principle and formula. De-
preciation and replacement charges should
always be provided for and included in the
accounts of the Railway Department to
show the true results.
They never are provided for in N.S.W.
Reports from Kyabram (Vic.) of an
address given by P. J. Kenneally, to the
effect that Labor (he is its organising sec-
retary) is sticking to the Dunstan Gov-
ernment to “get what it can while the
going is good,” have drawn U.A.P.
taunts and A.L.P. denial. “Argus” and
“Age” reports of the address differed so
much that the “Age” headed it “Loyalty
to the Premier” ; the “Argus,” “Getting
All We Can . . . Secretary’s Confession."
Only Kenneally and a few Kyabram
people know what he did say.
The S.A. Cameron on Gullett:
The Koran can be used to justify poly-
gamy, slavery and many other things. On
trade matters one can justify any theory
or any policy by quoting the hon. gentle-
man.
True enough. At various times Gullett
has been against tariff prohibitions and
for them ; against British preferences and
for them ; a champion of Japan as a
good-customer country and the author of
restrictions on Japanese imports. He
was so furious a critic of Page that he
called that person, his colleague since
1934, “the tragic Treasurer.” His other
colleague Hughes he denounced for not
borrowing £50,000,000 for immigration.
From “P.D.”:
On June 25, 1901, the “Argus” got the printer
of a Labor paper expelled from the Victorian
Assembly for republishing an abusive article on
the other King Edward. The printer was
Edward Findley, afterwards a Commonwealth
Senator for 22 years; he pleaded that he had
not read the article before the paper, was on
the streets, that he regretted his part in repro-
ducing it and that he had “taken the oath of
allegiance in all sincerity.” His withdrawal
and apology availed him nothing; out he went.
The “Argus” article which started the hue and
cry against him was headed “Foul Libel on
the King.” This was repeated day after day
and week after week until poor Findley had
been sacrificed. It occurs to me that the head-
line would have been trotted out again had "the
sensational crop of rumors” about the present
King Edward, published on November 30,
appeared in the “Age” —not the “Argus." But
it appeared in the “Argus” and not the “Age.'


LOVE WILL FIND A WAY—WELL, NOW AND THEN.


~Jim£ to-
B.V.D
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
-vhe
fOB
irM>*
Rtf&' V
RtS>
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
• UNDERWEAR
mmm
IR
r
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
The fact that approximately 200,000 buyers
from the five continents travel to Leipzig
twice yearly for their trading requirements
proves the world-wide importance of this
huge market.
Everything new, novel and useful, the products of
8,000 manufacturers from 25 countries, is displayed
at prices that permit very satisfactory resale profits.
You cannot afford to overlook Leipzig in your
merchandising plans.
COMMENCES FEB. 28, 1937.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available from LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Com-
missioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair;
L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422* Collins Street,
G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEX, Shenton Park, West Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Graham Waddell, making his second
attempt to get elected to N. S. Wales
Legislative Council, is the first of his
family to take to politics—ex-Premier
Thomas Waddell belongs to another
sept. Graham, a son of the squire of
Green Hills, Adelong (N.S.W.), started
on his career there as a jackeroo. Later
he became overseer and a manager for
Sam McCaughey, subsequently buying
Glen Iris, near Bethungra. He has been
a councillor of the N. S. Wales Graziers’
Association since 1917 and was president
for three years, during which he was
knighted.
George B. Philip, principal of the
Geo. B. Philip and Son Sydney firm of
educational booksellers and president of
both the N.S.W. Booksellers’ Association
GEORGE B. PHILIP-Publisher.
and Publishers’ Association, is the
G.O.M. of the Australian book trade.
He has been selling books since 1881,
the year after The Bulletin was estab-
lished. Born at Redfern, Sydney, in
1861, he first worked with Anthony
Hordern and Sons, then joined William
Maddock, leading bookseller of Sydney
half a century ago. He was with George
Robertson for a while, then part of
Kealy and Philip, which firm, when
Kealy withdrew, he carried on with his
son. There are few homes in Australia
in which there is not at least one Geo. B.
Philip textbook or atlas; Moore’s Aus-
tralian Almanac, now in its 85th year,
has long been a Philip publication.
The Commonwealth is receiving an-
other visit from 82-year-old Professor
Alfred Lodge, a brother of Sir Oliver,
and bearing a striking physical likeness
to him, but no spiritualist. He was last
here in 1930, visiting sons who were
farming in N.S.W. Among chairs he
has filled has been that of president of
the British Mathematical Society. There
is a third brother who has been president
of the Royal Historical Society and Dean
of the Faculty of Arts at Edinburgh. A
sister was principal of a women’s col-
lege in the University of London.
An able grazier passes on with the
death of Ernest Officer, who, after tak-
ing a brilliant degree at Melbourne Uni-
versity, managed Zara station, near
Deniliquin (N.S.W.), for 14 years. He
was a vice-president of the S. Riverina
Graziers’ Association, and had sat on
the Graziers’ Federal Council.
David Colman comes from Shrewsbury
School to be head of Melbourne Gram-
mar in succession to R. P. Franklin at
a remarkably young age for that job—
he is 30. He took first-class honors in
“Greats” at Oxford from Balliol, a col-
lege which has given Australia some
distinguished headmasters, including
R. H. Roe, who in the ’seventies became
head of Brisbane Grammar School at
an even younger age—27. For a time
Colman was a fellow of Queen’s College,
Oxford, and praelector in classics and
ancient history. Last year he returned
to his old school as a master. The
Grammar eight will welcome him:
Shrewsbury is one of the best of the
English rowing schools, and he has been
a coach there.
Bishop Blunt, of Bradford, who wished
that the King would give “more positive
signs of his awareness” that he needs the
grace of religion, is one of the most bril-
liant scholastic minds in the Anglican
Church. He was a house scholar at
Marlborough and took a double first in
classics and literce humaniores at Oxford.
For a time he was classical lecturer at
Exeter College, Oxford. He is one of
the world's greatest living Bible his-
torians, edited the Gospel of St. Mark
and the Acts for the Clarendon Bible and
has written largely about the Prophets.
His most recent book, an ecclesiastical
seller of last year, was called Grace and
Morals. He is “colonial born,” hailing
from the Seychelles, the lotus-eating
Indian Ocean islands of which former
N. S. Wales Governor Walter Davidson
was once Administrator.
The reproachful look of a brewer
offered the wrong brand has been caught
by Counihan on C. N. Tulloch, director
and chief brewer
of Ballarat Brew-
ing Co. His father,
William Tullocli,
started brewing
back in 1863, and
in 1895 Tulloch
and Son amalga-
mated with Magill
and Coghlan to
form the Coghlan
and Tulloch Brew-
ing Co., which, in
1911, adopted the
present name.
Charlie Tulloch is
well known to Vic.
rowing; he was
twice in winning
Vic. inter - State
eights. He is a
past-president of
the Ballarat Golf
Club and is on
the Ballarat City
Council. Tulloch
beer is well mixed
Brewer C. N. TULLOCH.
up with the history of Vic.’s old gold-
mining centre.
Queensland Mines Minister Jimmy
Stopford, who has passed over, was easily
Australia’s most picturesque portfolio
holder next to W. M. Hughes. In his
youth, working in the old Mundic works
at Mount Morgan, it was his habit to
give crib-hour one-man theatrical per-
formances with the bosses as his charac-
ters, and from that it was an easy step
to lunch-hour political orations. Pres-
ently Jimmy found himself a union
organiser. His methods were original.
Once when there was a strike at Iron
Island, whence the mine got its flux, it
was suggested that the board and
Jimmy should visit the island. They
did, and immediately the directors
stepped ashore the steamer crew (and
Jimmy) went on strike, marooning their
“enemies” till they compromised. Jimmy
entered Parliament in 1915, and stuck to
his Mt. Morgan constituency till it died
in 1932, when he transferred to Mary-
borough. He became chairman of the
Public Works Commission in 1918 and
joined the Ministry in 1922. For six
years he was Home Secretary, and in
1932 became Mines Minister. He was a
jovial man of Falstaffian figure who
much preferred to do a neighbor a good
turn rather than a bad one.
That bluff old Labor stalwart Bob
Warmington, Vice-Mayor of Brisbane
and acting Lord Mayor on many occa-
sions, was one of the casualties in the
Labor selections for the municipal elec-
tions next April. He has been an aider-
man of the Greater Brisbane Council
since its inception in 1925. Before that
he was Mayor of Ithaca. He was leader
of the Labor group in the City Council
for years until the arrival of Lord Mayor
Jones.
Youth will be served. Ex-Premier Jim
Dooley is a r ter the Labor nomination
for Lilley (Q.), and Randolph Bedford
wants to have a go at Hunter in
Maranoa. Jim has never encouraged the
compilers of birthday lists, but it is get-
ting on for 30 years since he was first
elected for Hartley (N.S.W.), and he was
no colt then.' Randolph admits to rising
69.
Thomas Lambert, one of M.L.’s oldest
working journalists, has just published
his second historical book, Pioneering
Reminiscences of Old Wairoa. His first.
The Story of Old Wairoa, appeared in
1925. Lambert edited the “Wairoa
Guardian” for many years, and, al-
though over 80, still turns out good
“copy” as local reporter for the “Poverty
Bay Herald.”
“El V.”: It looks as if the last ocean
to be conquered by air may be flown by
an Australian, after
which there will be
no more wide
stretches for the
breed to conquer.
Kingsford Smith
and (Jim flew the
Pacific, Tasman
and North Atlan-
tic. Hinkler .cov-
ered the South
Atlantic and the
seas from Singa-
pore so u t hward.
Fenton flew to
China. Wilkins
crossed the North
Pole. Now P. G.
Taylor, who was
Kingsford Smith’s
navigator on the
last trans-Pacific
trip, plans to fly
from Australia to
Africa —from Car-
narvon (W.A.) to
Cocos, thence via
Diego Garcia and the Seychelles to
Mombasa, returning via Colombo and
Penang.
The latest Australian to dig into
Hollywood is Alan Marshal, who is to
appear in David Selznick’s technicolor
“Garden of Allah.” Alan should be a
good movie man —he was bred in the
atmosphere of the picture theatre. His
father was well known in Sydney as
Leonard Willey, a pioneer director of
Pathe, and his mother, Irby Marshal,
from whom he takes his stage name, was
a leading light in N. S. Wales theatricals.
Mallam, J., whose trim beard and
sprightly walk used to be a familiar
sight in Darwin (N.T.), lives in retire-
ment impartially spreading his wit
Judge MALLAM.
through Adelaide, Sydney and Mel-
bourne, each of which he calls home for
part of a year. The wit, like his pro-
fession, is inherited. His father was a
London solicitor; his grandfather the
founder of the House of Commons Press
Gallery —a humorous gesture which
M.Ps. of a more conservative day did not
appreciate—and his uncle invented Ally
Sloper. Called to the S. Australian Bar
in 1902, he went to the N.T. in 1910,
was appointed to the Bench in 1928 and
in 1933 retired. When a Who's Who
editor asked him to name his recreations,
he replied: “Enjoyment of the arts,
conversation, meditation and rire et
faire rire.” He might have added light
opera. He pursues Gilbert and Sullivan
seasons assiduously from capital to
capital.
Tnside 18 months six Queensland poli-
ticians have died: “Darby” Riordan and
Groom (Ms.H.R.); Daniel, Funneil,
Collins and Stopford, Ms.L.A. At the
beginning of the 18 months there were
62 Queensland Assemblymen and 13
Queensland Federal politicians, so six is
an uncommonly large proportion.
Room for “Captain Pintle's” farewell:
Vale Britain’s most famous merchant-captain,
buried at sea in half a gale of wind, three
miles out from the Needles, killed by the strain
of helping the world’s greatest ship to find her-
self. Fifty-six years ago Edgar Britten earned
his first shilling at sea by winning a fight with
another six-year-old passenger. The broil started
over a question of navigation—fiow the ship's
log was operated—and the skipper put up the
stakes. Ten years later young Britten ran away
from an office, and persuaded that same skipper
to get him a job as ship’s boy in a wind-
jammer. Twelve years in sail followed; then
a junior bridge-officership in steam; rapid ad-
vancement of a taciturn but completely reliable
sea-officer; command; bigger and bigger ships:
the biggest and most responsible of all; well-
earned reputation as the most capable ship-
master in the British mercantile marine.


•7>
7 r>
✓ *
rr x ,
?»/
™»0«
««*
i»i«i
SiSM
ft; ffif: ■ v ■
■>
h&hhhm m
'
SSaS*??
vOWv:v»;
•&<*&
* —;::>f -
'
mv?
SSSB 5;
«*J' / ' '<,,' f Atv:- : 3fi f/fl:
pS i V „ 1 vlv/
\ “THREE-THREES” LEAD
ass
<»»
s££
sxprss*
it* j
325
m
00
tU& 3
'■
$
I •
(It
Carried along in the current of public favour,
"Three-Threes" lead grows longer every day.
The reason for "Three-Threes" success lies in
fine Virginia tobaccos, brilliantly blended to a
formula that will always be a closely guarded
secret. Remember "The secret's in the
'333Y blend,"
4890-11-6
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
CORK TIPPED OP PLAIN
9-6
AUo Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds, ond
Round Air-tight Fiftie*.


A home-made Will can
be a costly economy
ķ
It is an easy matter to save the cost
of a legally-drawn will, but such a
saving may cost an estate hundreds
of pounds in litigation. Careless
wording, ambiguity, or the slightest
deviation from legal procedure may render a will
of no effect, defeat the testator’s intentions, and
do grave injustice to beneficiaries. Ask your
solicitor to read your will and advise you without
further delay.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us,
we will be glad to discuss with you and your
solicitor, the important aspects of practical
administration of your estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, . and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
PRINCIPAL CONTRACTORS
FOR THE SUPPLY OF
ORE DRESSING EQUIPMENT
Throughout AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, NEW GUINEA & PAPUA.
The following equipment is manufactured under license in our own works:
DORR Classifiers Agitators, Thickeners, Diaphragm Pumps, etc.; ODItEK
Continuous Drum ’and Disc Filters; JIERKILL CROWE Gold Precipitation Plants;
ALLEN-SHERMAN-HOFF Hydroseai “Maximix” Soft Rubber-lined Sand Pumps
WESTERN PRECIPITATION Dust Recovery Units; BUFFALO FORGE Mine
Ventilating Fans; NEGRETTI AND ZAMBRA Control Instruments, etc.
BY
CROSSLE & DUFF PTY., LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SYDNEY OFFICE- Crossle, Duff & Macintosh, Dtd„ Winehcomhe House, a- Bridge
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
kThe WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re—
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926. 1,099,559 124 p.c.= 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 5,481,165
1927. 1,226,247 124 p.c.= 886,797 339,150 5,820,615
1928. 1,1£54,943 124 „ „ 936,905 248,038 6,068,653
1929.. 994,825 10 „ „ 750,000 244,825 6,313,478
1930.. 734,699 9£ „ „ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931.. 565,236 8 „ „ 619,200 6.262.963
1932.. 462,967 5£ ~ ~ 460,950 2,017 6,264,980
1933.. 439,616 6 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,596
1934" 439,739 5 „ „ 439,000 739 6,266,335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 5J,, „ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
The lift in the div. from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c.
p.a. for the last quarter of the term, mak-
ing 5| p.c. for the year, fitted in with
sustained anticipation, the £2O shares
having advanced from £32 17s. 6d. a
year ago to £36 12s. 6d. just before
presentation of ’the accounts. Then the
chairman’s remarks shook the market’s
confidence a little, and the price of the
scrip fell sharply to £33 17s. 6d., at which
figure the return is 3.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for
a shade over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 7 p.c. distribution, which, with
things as they are, is a reasonable expec-
tation. Indeed, as a long-term invest-
ment, the scrip has much to recommend
it.
Summing up the position in Australia
the chairman said:
Recovery is obviously fairly well on the
way, but we cannot safely continue expan-
sion at the rate at which it has taken place
during the last two years. That does not
mean that recovery has to stop. We can
quite safely continue the upward move-
ment at a somewhat slower pace without
risking the development of boom con-
ditions. But, in the absence of action by
the central bank to keep deposits rising,
the banking system cannot continue ex-
panding advances at the rate now de-
manded by industry, and will even find
it... .necessary gradually to reduce ad-
vances, which will put a definite brake on
recovery.
Actually, appearances are that the eco-
nomic machine in Australia is approach-
ing the point of balance. During the last
couple of years, heavy selling pressure by
traders resulted in a quick expansion of
business and accentuated demand for
advances. The upward trend of both
consumer demand and bank advances
can soon be expected to flatten out,
owing to continued growth of employ-
ment, etc., and, with export prices as they
are, an increase in deposits can be
looked for. Moreover, the present level
of export prices suggests that the banks
will be able to finance further expansion
of industrial activity without much, if
any, further increase in advances. In
these circumstances, a trading bank
desiring to extend its lending connec-
tions faster than it feels the growth in
its deposits and cash position will allow
could, of course, do so by getting in
more share capital.
When the books closed the ’Wales was
holding £6 7s. lid. of the. public's
tnoney for every pound of its own,
which was considerably more than any
of the other trading banks was holding ;
the ratio of advances to deposits was
85.9 p.c.; liquids amounted to 33.2 p.c.
of liabilities to the public; cash was
12.6 p.c., and cash and Treasury bills
combined 20.7 p.c. of total deposits.
Corresponding figures for 1929, when
there were no Treasury bills, were
£5 75., 89.9 p.c., 36.5 p.c. and 16.9 p.c.
respectively. It is a strong position, and,
together with the lift in the div., suggests
that lasi year’s declared net earnings (up
£27,794) were very conservatively stated
at £470,454, equal to 5.3 p.c. on the
£8,780,000 of share capital, or 3.1 p.c.
on capital and reserves combined. The
tax bill was £54,543 heavier at £217,102 ;
it related to the previous year’s earnings,
in which the visible increase was £2921.
To meet a growth of £1,469,790 in
advances and a contraction of £1,258,811
in deposits (fixed and current accounts
are not separated in the published
figures) liquids were drawn upon for
£2,527,114:
1931. 1935. 1936.
Notes .. .. £481,455 £140,968 £81,449
Bills, etc. . . 4,264,758 6,468,117 7,139,651
Deposits . . 69,388,093 90,403,980 89,145,169
Liquids . . 31,119,729 34,560,353 32,023,239
Advances . . 55,109,240 75,122,458 76,692,248
Premises . . 1,800,000 2,600,000 2,600,000
Deposit*' .. 341,983
* Statutory deposit with Reserve Bank of N.Z.
The drop in deposits may have some
connection with the Maoriland sec-
tion of the undertaking Here financ-
ing of the Dominion’s exports of
butter and cheese has been taken over by
the Reserve Bank, which means, among
other things, that the trading banks will
lose an important part of their business
in the foreign-exchange market. Also,
they have to make a statutory deposit
of not less than 3 p.c. of their fixed and
7 p.c. of their call deposits with the
Reserve Bank, which has arbitrary power
to increase the ratios.
Movements in liquids compare as
follows:
1935. 1936.
Cash, bullion, etc £10,179,566 £11,274,935
Notes other hanks .. .. 10 “
Call money, London .. 1,280,000 1,470,000
Treasury bills .. •• 5,535,000 7,235,000
Public securities .. .. 11,742,085 3,952,607
Due by other banks . . 685,506 728,802
Bills receivable, etc., London 5,128,186 7,361,895
£34,550,363 £32,023,239
During the slump, when interest-bearing
deposits piled up and borrowers were
shy, large sums were invested in public
securities, returns from which contri-
buted largely to declared profits and
therefore to divs. Since the tide turned
there has been a steady increase in ad-
vances, and most of the Government
securities have been sold in order to
strengthen the cash position and meet
withdrawals of deposits. Last year's
contraction in the book value of the hold-
ing of public securities was £7,789,478,
making the shrinkage £12,973,888 over
the last two years. Any profit or loss
connected with the sales has been ad-
justed through inner reserves.
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
—Dividends
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 440,229 310,602 190 129,431 565,429
Assets written up, £736,975 .. 1,302,404
Reserves capitalised, £776,975 .. 525,429
111 p.c.
1927.. 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
Ordinary.
£
1928.. 590,134 124 p.c.= 485,022 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. .. 740,817
1929.. 634,054 124 p.c. =539,860 94,194 835,011
1930.. 686,392 111 ~,, 632,317 64,075 889,086
1931.. 480,829 8 ~,, 449.048 1 ISI Q 1„ 0( . 7
Employees* Fund, £7OOO \ 24 > 181 913 ’ 2 ° 7
1982" 467,474 8 p.c. =449 648 | 8 82C 922,093
Employees I'und, £9OOO ) ’ ’
1933.. 482,204 84 p.c. =477,751 ) _ qiq r l4n
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO j
1934.. 507,119 9J p.c. =538,957 1 2g lfio q 47 708
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) ’ “ ' ’
1935.. 628,699 12$ p.c. =702,576* 873,832
1936.. 096,028 10 ~,, 589,017 )..",," Q7Q a4 o
To Staff Fund, £lOOO ..) 106)011 979,843
* Including special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
There is no price-cutting in the trade.
For the most part competition takes the
form of buying up hotel freeholds, thus
widening and anchoring turnover. This
Tooth and Co. has done on a wholesale
basis. It took over large and thirsty terri-
tories when it bought Castlemaine and
Wood Bros. (Newcastle) in 1920 and
Mahon (Wagga) and Lincoln (Narrandera)
in 1924. Five years later Resch’s business
(one of the two other big city breweries)
was welded into the organisation. This
involved the issue of 1,250,000 paids,
lifting paid capital to £5,621,598, of
which £2,150,097 has come largely from
hidden reserves ; the last £1,262,597 of
it was scattered during the three years
to the close of accounts in 1929. Still,
the gift-giving had not been overdone.
Three years later the State’s consumption
of beer had fallen by nearly 40 p.c., and
a crop of other difficulties, which further
reduced earnings and added to overhead,
appeared. Yet the distribution to share-
holders, which had reached 12| p.c. in
’2B, dropped no lower than 8 p.c.
As conditions improved payrolls
lengthened and earnings responded. Un-
employment in N.-S. Wales, which was
33.2 p.c. for the June quarter of ’32, fell
to 22.7 p.c. for the second quarter of
’35, and to 16.2 p.c. for the correspond-
ing quarter of ’36, and the position has
continued to improve since. The fol-
lowing table shows the State’s consump-
tion of intoxicating liquors, mostly beer,
for the five years to the end of 1935:
Quantity
Consumed, Total Per Head of
Year, Gallons. Expenditure. Population.
1931.. - 20.139,543 £10,800,000 £4/4/6
1932.. .. 19,923,802 10,620,000 £4/2/4
1933.. .. 21,015,562 10,740,000 £4/2/7
1934.. .. 23,849.389 11,750,000 £4/9/7
1935.. .. 26,144,654 12,800,000 £4/16/9
Consumption of beer increased from
18,042,000 gallons in ’32 to 23,764,000
gallons in ’35, the improvement over the
last 12 months being 2,191,000 gallons.
Now consider these figures:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Scipt., Earnings. Excise, etc. Gross. Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1925 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1930.. 1,593,798 907,406 56.9 686,392
1931.. 1,260,615 779,786 61.9 480,829
1932.. 1,092,345 624,871 57.3 467,474
1933.. 1,078,981 596,777 55.3 482,204
1934 1,237,497 670,378 54.1 567,119
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,699
1936.. 1,505,003 808,975 53.7 696,028
The improvement in Tooth’s gross earn-
ings for the last term was £121,112.
Though exes, were up £53,783, they took
16s. less of each £lOO of income, leaving
the net result £67,329 better at 11.8 p.c.
on average capital as against 11.1, 10,
8.5, 8.3, 8.5, 12.2, 14.7 and 15.2 p.c. back
to 1928. The div. was kept at 10 p.c. —a
2j p.c. cash bonus was sent out in '35 to
celebrate the centenary of the business.
During the year an extra £562,059 of
fresh capital was gathered, raising the
total to £6,182,659. Together with an
extra £64,197 of outside money, the
new capital and year’s surplus earnings
went mainly into breweries, etc. —the
etcetera is mostly hotel freeholds —up
£411,790, and book debts, up £137,563:
Assets:— 1925. 1935. 1936.
Breweries, etc... £2,420,241 £5,016,798 £6,028,588
Book debts .. 1,172,258 972,635 1,110,198
Stock .. .. 409,451 219,309 253,193
Liquid .. .. 182,522 855,237 891,590
£4,190,472 £7,603,979 £8,283,575
Sundry creditors.. 424,740 668,899 733,096
Net assets .. £3,765,732 £6,995,080 £7,550,479
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1.521,891) was £143,609.
At 535. 6d. the pound shares return 3.7
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The investor
at 535. 6d. who looks for 4.5 p.c. on his
money counts on a 12 p.c. distribution.
Visibly, the cover is 235. 2d. in net tan-
gibles.
Australasian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
, Dividends ~ Writ- De-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. ten Off. flcit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 97,177 8 p.c. 7 p.c. =72,535 23,500 2,394
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Premiums on shares, £14,344 .. 11,950
Assets transferred to subsidiary.
Added to reserves .. .. 89,107 101,057
1927.. 95,923 8 p.c. 8 p.c. =83,000 12,923 113,980
Sept.,
1928 f. 70,781 8 ~ 6 ~,,71,396} 113,305
1929.. 28,848 8 „ 2 ~,,36,762 105,451
1930.. 73,978 8 „ 6 „ ~73,727 251 105,702
1931.. 68,628 8 „ 5j 71,417 102,913
1932.. 92,931 8 ~ 8 „ ~92,209 722 103,635
1933.. 100,510 8 ~ 8 „ ~92.209 8,301 111,936
1934.. 107,950 8 ~ 8 „ ~92,209 15,741 127,677
1935.. 103,732 8 ~ 8 ~ ~92,209 11,523 139,200
Premium on shares, £30,248 .. 169,448
1936.. 106,697 lOfp.c. Bp.c.-102,829 3,868 173,316
t Fifteen months. } Divs. to June 30, 1928.
This co. and the Cumberland Board Mills
(Sydney) own approximately 78 p.c. and
22 p.c. respectively of the share capital
in Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.,
and little else. Early in the last term
A. P. and P. issued 302,483 new £1
ords. at a premium of ss. each. When
the books closed Bs. of the capital
(£120,993) and 2s. of the premium
(£30,248) had been gathered, making paid
capital £1,273,611 in 228,500 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., which advance with the ords. to
10 p.c., and 1,226,601 ords. The share
premiums were added to reserves. The
new capital and premium money com-
bined, and a trifle, more, were invested in
shares in the operating co. (£1,397,125, up
£155,236). Other assets were deposits
and cash (£109,117, down £4816). The
operating co. sent along a bit more than
was necessary to enable A. P. and P. to
pay its own exes. (£847) and an all-
round 8 p.c. div. The extra 2 p.c.
handed to the prefs. was to bring their
payments into line with balancing date.
The market prices the prefs at 395. 6d.
and the ords. at 355. 6d., the yield being
4 p.c. and 4.5 p.c. respectively on an 8
p.c. div. basis, with prospects. On the
basis of the operating co.'s figures, the
net tangible cover is £5 13s. 4d. prefs.
and 20s. sd. ords.
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
Actually the position of shareholders
in the holding cos. is governed by re-
sults and the financial situation in the
working co., which operates two mills,
one at Fairfield (Vic.) and the other at
Botany (N.S.W.). Its trading results
compare as follows:
Net Profit
Year, p.c. Average
June 30, Not Profit. Capital. Dividends.
1928 .. £96,147 6.2 5J p.c. = £90,826
1929 . . 45,797 2.8 24 „ „ 40,000
1930 . . 102,720 8.1 74 „ „ 96,000
1931 . . 99,372 7.8 7 „ „ 89,630
1932 .. 141,201 11 11.25 ~ ~144,000
1933 .. 153,272 f 12 11.25 „ ~ 144,000
1934 .. 171,614 13.4 11.25,, ~144,000
1935 .. 177,115} 13.8 11 „ ~140,800
1936 . . 194,702} 14.3 5.5 „ 70,400*
•(Includes £5OOO sent to loss of profits reserve'.
} Includes £2500 for research and unspecified pro-
vision for loss of profit reserve.
During the last term both plants worked
continuously, and costs and selling prices
were further reduced, owing partly to im-
proved processes. The new 160-inch paper
machine (capacity about 7500 tons p.a.)
at Fairfield commenced production in
June. So the £128,000 of new capital
gathered could not have contributed any-
{‘‘Wild. Cat” continued on page 18.)


and (jr.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1936,
SHOWS THE FOLLOWING RECORD OF PROGRESS:—
1916
1926
1936
1916
1926
1936
1916
1926
1936
INCOME
£665,840
£2,701,156
£5,004,192
NEW BUSINESS
(Excluding Accident Department)
£3,095,425
— £10,471,322
£15,228,499
ASSETS
£2,342,458
£10,354,583
£25,407,810
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
(Excluding Accident Department)
1916
1926
1936
£10,470,679
£40,717,980
£72,681,629
The T. and G. Mutual Life Society is one of the Strongest and one
of the most Progressive Life Offices in the British Empire
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited.
J. T. THOMPSON, Esq., Chairman.
r. McDonald, E sq .
DIRECTORS:
P. R. SUTHERLAND, Esq.
W. FORSTER WOODS, Esq.
A. R. STEWART, Esq.
Col. SIR CHARLES E. MERRETT, Kt., C.8.E., V.D.


m
ssaesaiass
■/
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. ‘ Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Buyer of TANTALITE and all classes ores, con-
centrates, metals, LOUIS BURIiARD, 250 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Telegram address, “Burkardore.”
—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
I.EMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sinus House.
Sydney. — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Advt.
# * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully iHustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.—Advt,
Prof essional Engagements !
Qualified accountants
need not fear future.
Men who are qualified accountants and trained by
H. & R. need not fear for the future. Accountancy,
as a career, is the opportunity for ambitious men if
they are trained in modern methods, rortv year>
consistent winning, year after year, the majority of
major honors by H. & R. students must convince ail
thinking men of the value of the H. & R. Course*
in Accountancy-Secretaryship —Cost Accountancy
Bookkeeping. Forty years of filling the worth-while
positions with H. & R. trained men must convince
you that the H. & R. tuition, from a practical point
of view, is the logical course for you. It cost* J u
nothing to convince yourself —write for our Guiae
to Careers,” and ask us to include our Brochure, n
Their Own Words.”
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Sydney: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack st.
Newcastle: 38 A.M.P. Chambers, Hunter >t.
Dear Sirs, —I am interested in Business. Plw' o
send me free copy of the 1936 Edition of
Guide to Business Careers.”
Name
Address
thing worth mentioning to the spring of
£31,060 in gross earnings (£389,431). In-
cluding £76,816 (up £5521) set aside for
depreciation, exes. (£194,729) took
£13,473 of the increase, leaving the net
result £17,587 better at approximately
14.3 p.c. on capital. An interim div. of
54 p.c. was paid; the final was not
stated ; appearances are that' 10 p.c. was
paid for the year.
The amount of the operating co.’s
annual profits belonging to each of the
holding cos. compares as follows:
1934. 1935. 1930.
A. P. and P... £138,207 £137,477 £151,128
Cumberland .. 38,407 39,638 43,574
The total amount passed on to the hold-
ing cos. for the last term was £136,000
or thereabouts, as against £140,800 for
the preceding term.
Expansion of the business is reflected
in all-round growth of balance-sheet
figures:—
1928. 1935. 193 G.
Paid capital .. £1,600,000 £1,280,0*00 £1,408,000
Loans, etc. .. 44 h™ 4 ) 112 290 134,230
S'undry creditors.. 52,991 j
Freehold and plant 1,400,202 1,384,905 1,559,914
Shares other cos.,
etc 25,608 30,058 53,383
Stock . . . . 475,110 449,209 500,519
Book debts .. 151,593 241,098 259,483
Cash .. .. 17,311. 21,956 99,482
The year’s improvement in the more or
Jess liquid surplus (£731,248) was
£130,621. Freehold and plant were up
£175,039. When the books closed, there
was another £300,000 of capital and
share premiums to come in. It will be
used mainly for erecting a new 132 in.
board machine (capacity 100 tons per
day), which is expected to be running by
July, 1938, at Botany. The project to erect
a 25,000-ton-a-year mill to pulp Austra-
lian hardwoods and make printing and
writing paper, etc., at Morwell is sub-
ject to approval of the Vic. Parliament.
It is estimated that this plant will cost
£500,000 or thereabouts.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (M.L.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct. , Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
_£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 20,005 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 6527 50,454
1927.. 22,533 224 ~ ~ 21,461 5,000 ~ 46,520
1928.. 22,903 10 „ „ 9,538 11,000 2426 48,961
Profit on sale of assets, £876 .. 40,826
1929.. 15,990 10 p.c. = 9,538 6,000 1462 51,278
1930.. 16,172 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1034 62,012
1931.. 16.415 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1877 54,780
1932.. 16,825 10 ~ ~ 9,538 5,000 2287 57,076
1933.. 17,305 19.3„ „ 18,470 5,000 50,901 •
1934.. 16,204 10 ~ ~ 9,538 4,000 2606 53,567
1935.. 15,636 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 2098 55,665
1936.. 18,121 10 „ ~ 9,538 4,000 4583 60,248
This co. turns out woollens, including
rugs and blankets, that have won awards
all over the world. Divs. have averaged
over 8y p.c. since the beginning (1871),
and only once, in 1876, has the co. failed
to make an annual distribution. The
comfortable position in which share-
holders now find themselves is due partly
to the care with which the management
has preserved the earning capacity of the
plant. During the five years to the close
of accounts in 1928, £36,342 was spent
on replacements and renewals ; the lot,
and £16,752 besides, was written off out
of earnings over the same period. For
the eight years since, £33,843 has been
spent on replacements and renewals, and
£37,000 written off, leaving the factory
and plant with a book value of £26,043
at Oct. 6. In addition, shareholders have
had a long run of 10 p.c. divs., sweet-
ened with £11,923 of bonus scrip in
1923 and special cash distributions of
10s. (12| p.c.) per share in 1927 and
7s. 6d. (9.3 p.c.) in 1933.
During the last term, there was more
money about, and gross earnings
(£41,259) sprang £8651, despite expand-
ing imports. Exes. (£23,138) were up
£6166. After striking off £4OOO for de-
preciation, the net result (£14,121) was
£2485 better at 14.8 p.c. on capital as
against 12.2, 12.7, 12.9, 12.4, 11.9, 11.7,
11.5 and 18.8 p.c. back to 1928. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c.
Finances are comfortable:
1923. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £95,380 £95,380 £95,380 £95,380
Liabilities .. 33,625 13,011 14,269 16,293
Plant & property 51,952 44,006 34,348 31,043
Stocks.. .. 64,668 49,341 50,208 34,677
Book debts, etc. 33,101 26,281 15,478 18,071
Cash and in-
vestments ... 35,505 61,813 86,075 109,000
Including the allowance for depreciation,
the year’s surplus earnings and a reduc-
tion of £15,531 in stocks enabled £22,925
to be added to cash and Government
securities. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£145,455)
was £7963.
At the moment there is a tendency
for costs to rise, owing to the Govern-
ment’s policy of a 40-hour week (though
this will affect these woollen cos. less
than most others), higher wages, and the
“regulation” of manufacture through
new “industrial efficiency'’ legislation,
which appears to have the blessing of
certain manufacturers’ organisations.
Still, unless something unforeseen
happens, the 10 p.c. div. is not likely to
be interfered with.
The market prices the £5 shares paid
to £4 at £9 12s. 6d. as against £lO ss. a
year ago. At current price the return
is 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is £6 10s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Tin Merger
The proposed merger of London Tin
Corp., Anglo-Oriental Mining Corp. and
Metal Securities, Ltd., all London-con-
trolled, is another step in the control and
unification of production and marketing
of a big slice of the world’s tin.
London Tin Corp. (it used to be the
London Tin Syndicate, Ltd.) is a holding
co. with a paid capital of £3,158,244.
Since the beginning of 1930, when the
name was changed to the present title, the
co. has consolidated extensive tin and
associated interests in Nigeria, Malaya,
Siam and Burma. It also holds a large
interest in Consolidated Tin Smelters,
Ltd., and over 90 p.c. of the issued capi-
tal in Nigerian Electricity Supply Corp.
as well as all the shares in Anglo-
Malayan Tin.
Anglo-Oriental Mining Corp. (paid
capital £1,750,000) was formed in 1928.
It holds a commanding interest in Anglo-
Oriental (Malaya), Ltd., and all the issued
capital of Anglo-African Selected In-
vestments, Ltd., and of Anglo-Oriental
and General Investment Trust, through
which it controls Anglo-Oriental (India),
Ltd., being thus interested in gold as
well as tin. The corp. also has substantial
holdings in London Tin Corp. and
British Tin Investment Corp. Among
the cos. whose affairs it manages, and in
which Australians are directly interested,
are Southern Kinta, Kuala Kampar,
Kampong Lanjut, Kramat, Malim Nawar,
Rawang Tin, Rawang Concessions,
Larut, Jelapang and Kundang.
Metal Securities, Ltd. (paid capital
£800,000), is an investment and finance
co., formed in 1934, with extensive inter-
ests in tin-producing cos. in Malaya and
elsewhere.
Because completion of the new oxi-
dised-ore treatment plant (capacity 800
tons per day), sulphide mill (capacity
about 30,000 tons of ore. monthly) and
reorganisation of the powerhouse, etc.,
called for more money than was antici-
pated, Mt. Morgan will presently issue
120,000 new 2s. 6d. shares at a price “as
near to the ruling market price as is pos-
sible to obtain.” The co. expects to
resume payment of dividends in March
next, probably at the rate of 4id. per
share. For the next 12 months the inten-
tion is to concentrate upon production
of weekly tonnages of regulated ore “that
will ensure an equalised production over
the life of the mine.” Power costs are
expected to be from Is. 6d. to 2s. per ton
of ore lighter. It is too early yet to say
what the magnitude of the new ore-body
will be. It was disclosed by a cross-cut
between the main tunnel and the Lady
Brassey shaft in an area previously re-
garded as overburden. Assays vary from
a few ’weight to 9|oz. per ton ; a bulk
sample averaged Bdwt. Much depends
upon how this new ore-body develops.
* * * *
Though income is now said to be
abreast of outgo, or a bit ahead of it,
Morobe Alluvials, formed in Aug, ’35,
to take over an estimated 3,000,000 c.y.
of untested ground adjoining New
Guinea Goldfields’ holding, discloses a
loss of £lBB5 in its initial year’s opera-
tions ; 33,136 c.y. was sluiced for
679|0z. gold. Test-drilling on the lower
reaches was early abandoned, owing to
boulders, and shaft-testing was resorted
to. Then came an unsatisfactory report
from T. R. Victor, and the co. com-
menced to hunt for another property.
* * * *
Burma-Malay Tin, latest co. to nibble
at New Pyrenees’ Avoca (Vic.) property,
has applied for a 12 months’ option,
contingent on New Pyrenees obtaining
extension of the options it holds from
landholders. If exercised, a working
co. is to be formed with a nominal capi-
tal of £150,000 in £1 shares, of which
25,000 will go to the vendor, which will
also get the option to underwrite 25,000
contribs. The area (3000 acres) was re-
cently estimated to contain 25,000,000
c.y., averaging 3gr. Dredging depth is
60ft. Water is said to present no dif-
ficulty. Yet it was on this account that.
Aus. Gold Development and Gold and
Tin Development turned down the prop-
erty a few months back. The Avoca
Valley is one of the wettest deep lead
alluvial systems in Vic. If the present
option is exercised, the co. intends to
instal an £BO,OOO bucket-dredge, capacity
200,000 c.y. monthly. Mt. Morgan
Developments and unnamed London in-
terests may also come in.
* * * . *
With the rise in the values of base
metals the West Coast of Tasmania is
beginning to look up again. Within
three miles of the Zeehan post office
some very promising galena shows are
receiving attention, while prospecting
parties have located a rich patch of
silver-lead ore near the Big Ben mine.
So far prospecting for gold on the West
Coast has not produced anything worth
bothering about.
* * * *
Cox’s Find and Central Norseman
(W.A.) continue to assist Western Mining
Corp. to climb the golden stairs. The
former has produced £25,000 worth of
the yellow metal in the last three months,
and a crosscut 180 ft. down—the deep-
est point yet reached —has exposed 21ft.
of ore assaying from 16dwt. to 19dwl.
per ton. Central Norseman is tipped to
develop into an asset of considerable
worth. Co.’s technical adviser and man-
aging director, G. Lindesay Clark, has
stated that “favorable results of pros-
pecting at depth would enable an out-
put of 10,000 tons a month to be attained
as soon as the lower ore zone could be
opened up for mining.” Also, “if other
reefs develop as expected, production
could be further increased.” The mine,
which is identical with the old Mararoa,
abandoned years ago, is equipped with a
mill handling about 3000 tons a month.
* * * *
Meekatharra Gold Mines, Ltd., one of
De Bernales’s newcomers from London,
has already drawn a blank in the West,
but is hopeful that Lalla Rookh, on the
Pilbara field, will prove to be a prize.
Plant is being installed, and draining and
mining operations are expected to com-
mence shortly. The co. aims at increas-
ing by development the quantity of ore
already visible in the old workings until
there is sufficient in sight to justify erec-
tion of a treatment plant. Worked by a
local syndicate on picking-and-choosing
lines in the days when gold was worth
less than half of what it is now, Lalia
Rookh produced a good deal of wealth.
* * * *
London-controlled North Kalgurli
United, operating at Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
needs a further £50,000. In asking share-
holders to cheerfully find this sum chair-
man William Campion said that fresh
capital was wanted because of the
amount of payable ore which the ex-
tension of present workings is thought
likely to open up. Claude de Bernales
(managing director) contributed a re-
minder that other mines on the Kal-
goorlie-Boulder belt were earning profits
from the treatment of ore. of a lower
average grade than that proved in North
Kalgurli United, and that an additional
lode had been discovered during the year
“which was destined to play a prominent
part in the future of the property.” The
diamond-drill has given encouragement
for deeper mining.
* * * *
Murchison Gold Development con-
tinues to spend money freely (£89,078
last year) on its two Westralian ventures,
the Riverina, at Mulline, and the Emu,
at Lawlers. Both are tipped to reach the
profit-earning stage, in 1937. The co.
was one of De Bernales’s 1934 Westralian
floats, and was one of the two sponsored
by Great Boulder Prop., the other being
Southern Cross.
♦ # ♦ ♦
North Kalgurli Central (W.A.) has
spent nearly £50,000 in purchase, de-
velopment and equipment of its prop-
erty ; all it apparently has to show for
its risk and enterprise is a comparatively'
small tonnage of ore, mostly too poor to
justify keeping on. An option taken by
Paringa some months ago has just been
abandoned.
* * * *
Sydney-controlled Lake View South
Extended has obtained exemption on its
blocks at the southern end of the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile. Developmental
results have not borne out prospectus an-
ticipations, and difficulty has been experi-
enced in raking in calls. About £16,000
has been spent on plant and mining, and
the co. at present “is unable to do any-
thing of a profitable nature.”
* * * *
Imperial (W.A.) has agreed to let
tributors try their luck on its Idaho lease.
The co. recently crushed 500 tons from
this show for an average over the plates
of 6.36dwt. gold per ton. Its other block
(the Aberdare) is to be diamond-drilled.
Both are at the south end of the. Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile.
* * * *
Mt. Jackson apparently believes it has
a good thing. Additional plant is being
acquired and paid for out of funds, and,
pending its installation, mining and treat-
ment will continue without interruption.
The. manager reckons the mine will yield
a regular profit from now on.


What’s the difference
between a Cricket Ball
and A Good Whisky ?
asks Johnnie Walker
N:, %
»
k A CRICKET ball,” said Johnnie
Tv Walker, taking one in his hand,
has a seam—you can see and feel where the join comes
—and so it is with poorly-blended whiskies. But a good
whisky, like Johnnie Walker, is somewhat like a billiard
ball, perfectly smooth; the blends of rare whiskies are so
skilfully married’ that there are no ‘edges’ to the whisky.
‘ Roll a few drops—neat—round your palate; you will
find that roundness and depth and harmony which make it
worth while to say ‘A Johnnie Walker, please,’ instead
of A whisky-and-soda.’ ”
-JOHNNIE
k
ķ
ĸ
Born 1820 ---still going strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LO NDON, KILMARNOCK AND SYDNEY.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Plug”: Of all the old bush celebrities
—Crooked Mick, Jack the Rager, Blue
Rob, Billy the Pup —one of the queer-
est was Pain-Killer Mick, who achieved
his name by his ability to drain
that liquid fire like mother’s milk. Added
to that was his power to take things with
a spice in them. Enough nicotine to lay
out a dozen men was to Mick just a
pick-me-up. He loved the heels of old
and bubbly pipes—that tobacco gave
him a smoke with a grip in it. He was
said to be worth ten bob any time to
a man who had a pipe well oiled and
soaked with fluid. Mick used to crush
the whole pipe to a powder, mix it with
his tobacco and enjoy a real smoke. He
was reputed to be able to use strychnine
as a throat gargle and arsenic as a re-
viver ; lighter poisons—laudanum and
the like —were merely refreshers. I don’t
know what happened to Mick finally. If
he went to the place where he was often
consigned, then Old Nick had better
keep a lock and key and a close watch
over his supplies of brimstone and
sulphur.
# * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “She’s a thumper,”
the old chap assured me, and my heart
jumped. It is years since I heard that
phrase, though it was once common.
Whether it was used appreciatively—“Yer
seen the nugget old Tom picked up?
It’s a thumper!”—or derogatively—“Yer
thumpin’ big bully! ” —it was equally ex-
pressive. We had another word, too,
“honest,” meaning something like
“dinkum” might mean but doesn’t. About
the last time I heard it was on the road
to Cue (W.A.), when I asked an old
hand “How far?” “Well,” he sized up
our swags, “if they’re honest, you’ll do
it in about 20 miles.” That was in the
days when an empty barrel rolled in a
blanket was a loafer’s passport to an
easy meal. But our swags were “honest.”
What would they be now?
* • * * *
“The 0.D.”: A wheatgrower out
Bareli an way (N.S.W.) had sold his
horses and bought a tractor, but, like
some others, he has returned to horses,
his reason more logical than most.
“Well, y’ see,” he explained the change
back, “when a man’s working all day
alone he likes somethin’ to talk to. And
what th’ ’ell can y’ talk t’ a tractor
about?”
* * * *
“Trebor”: I am at present taking life
easy, with my foot, swathed in ban-
dages, resting up on a chair, my arm in
a sling and much swelling, bruising and
soreness about the middle. I was not
thrown from an untamed horse or
caught by a falling tree"; I merely found
a wallaby raiding the bean patch. I
managed to corner him, grab his tail
and treat him to a good Soccer back’s
kick in the ribs. Result, foot out of
action, sprained wrist, a swipe round
the middle with the brute’s tail, and the
galling sight of him sailing over the
fence. Will I go out again without the
gun?
* * * *
“Mirwa”: Wedded at the Baptist
Church, West Melbourne, 18-year-old
Miss Nevin, whose aboriginal title is
Princess Bullum Bullum, meaning “But-
terfly.” Guests numbered 58, and the
reception was held at the home of the
bride’s mother. The wedding cake was
adorned with a boomerang, and aborigi-
nal songs livened the marriage feast.
Princess Bullum Bullum, now known as
Mrs. Jones, is, with Mr. Jones, spending
the honeymoon along the Upper Yarra,
where some scenery still remains that
might resemble home. King Barak, the
bride’s great-grand-uncle, was married in
that same locality over 90 years ago ;
simply by entering his mia-mia, eating
a roast possum, he became a hus-
band by tribal law. Barak was the last
king of the Yarra Yarra tribe.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Does any plant on earth
provide better excuse for honest pro-
fanity than the “fuchsia” bush of s.-w.
Queensland? In good seasons this bush
attains luxuriant growth and, mixed with
other herbage, has good fattening prop-
erties. But in good seasons the perverse
jumbucks shun the fuchsia. In drought,
however, when fuchsia is the only bush
surviving, it is eagerly attacked by the
woollies. And in drought the darned
plant has highly noxious qualities, as
casualties along stock routes testify.
“ 'Ere, Joe, you'd better take the "EraldYou'll Want somethin to read on the trip."
“Saddle-flap”: The old major nearly
threw a fit when he caught us droving
the mob across his drought-stricken
property several hours ahead of sched-
uled time, and our explanation that we
had tried in vain to find his lonely hut
to renotice him only made matters worse.
Subdued at last, the Old Contemptible
sat sweltering at our dinner-camp in his
immaculate white collar, when our horse-
tailer addressed him: “How can you be
bothered starchin’ stiff collars in this
ungodly country?” Instantly the major
acquired regimental vigor. “My dear
fellow,” he said, “if you only knew the
benefits of a stiff collar ... the cool-
ness ... the hygiene ... the feeling of
being dressed . . . well, bai Jove, you’d
never be without one.” “But are stiff
collars really cool?” “‘Yes, bai Jove,
they are.” The horsetailer kept on. We
felt like killing him. Couldn’t he under-
stand that anything might happen? It
did. The major promised to send him
half a dozen stiff collars.
* * *
“Kuaka”: A kookaburra seen near
Whangarei, North Auckland (M.L.), was
probably blown there by the boisterous
Tasman wind. At any rate that was the
theory when many years ago a badly-
battered Jack was found near the North
Cape. Half a century ago Sir George
Grey tried to introduce the kookaburra
to M.L., releasing several pairs in his
island sanctuary of Kawau, where, with
some fellow-Australian wallabies, they
flourished for a while. Jack’s tribe, how-
ever, did not increase, and, though occa-
sionallv kookaburras were reported on
the mainland or on adjacent islands for
a few years, the birds soon disappeared,
Possiblv they took a ride on the wind
back home again. ’
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Awful moments, is
it? In a staunch cutter one dark, windy
night we were running along the Vic-
torian coast, and because the binnacle
lamp wouldn’t keep alight I was steering
for stars given to me by my mate at
regular intervals. All at once our chosen
planet jumped high in the heavens—a
steamer’s masthead light! Running off
all we could in a heavy seaway without
gybing, a large wave struck us on the
quarter half submerged us, broached us
to and sent us tearing with everything
flapping straight at the huge black hull
towering wall-like ahead. Those moments
seemed hours before we missed that
Mpompr’c ctem hv feet
* * y ' * *
“Admiral”: “A.M.” (B. 11/11/ 36) ex-
presses surprise that the bolt blew out
of a .22 rifle before the barrel burst,
We present-day militia are strictly
cautioned about firing the modern Mark
VII ammunition through Mark VI rifles
on that very account. One chap who
tried it received the bolt through his
brain.
* * * *
“Squid”: Between time of writing and
publication of my par. celebrating the
egg-laying performance of the lady oclo-
pus at Taronga Zoo (B. 25 /11 / ’36) the
lady confirmed a long-held theory by
going west. She confounded the. experts
by continuing to live after the hatching
instead of, in proper octopus fashion,
turning up her toes at once ; but it seems
she had merely waited until the very last
egg was hatched. As it is estimated that
there were some 300,000 eggs and as the
octopettes are tiny and practically invis-
ible in the water an idea can be had of
the lady’s patience and counting ability.
* * * *
“Jim D.”: Can an eagle lift a lamb?
Too right it can—and something much
heavier. Crossing some open country
at the foot of Mount Lindsey I was as-
tonished to see a great wedgetail swoop
down from the clouds and carry off
Bluey, a full-grown cattle-dog, to its nest.
There Bluey showed fight, and for five
hectic minutes hair and feathers flew.
The eagle had a slight lead on points
when Blue got a scissors hold or some-
thing and the monarch of the air, unable
to free himself, rose higher and higher
till both bird and dog were lost in the
heavens. I don’t know what happened up
there, but Bluey never came back.
“Warrigal”: “Nothung” (B. 18/11/’36)
corrects one fallacy about marsupial
birth only to fall into another. The
young do adhere strongly to the teat,
but this is because the gland of the
mother swells inside the mouth of the
young one after the first suckling, and
the jaws are not sufficiently elastic to
slip over. Consequently, forcible re-
moval always causes bleeding from the
mouth, which is broken in the process,
a circumstance that gave rise to the
original bushman’s belief. There is no
membrane of any description connect-
ing dam and youngster once parturition
has taken place.
“Bambino”: I agree with “C.B. (B.
18/11/ 36) about the way kalians t ° l f
in N. Queensland. At Ayr (N.Q.) s
them rented a cane farm from the
Kalamia Mill. and working ceaselessly,
saved enough m three years to buy tne
place. There was no “smell of an oilrag’
living about them, either. From my
store they bought weekly one case lager,
one large cheese, half a dozen pure olive
oil, 101 b. butter, and pickles, jams, etc.
In fact, contrary to fairly common belief,
I should say they lived high. It was
industry, not parsimony, that got them
on.
**.* , * „
Paul C. : Baths in dry places (B.
18/11/ 36) remind one of a Bulletin
par. of donkey’s years ago about a
Parliamentary party wandering through
electorates during a drought. Early one
morning a local was astonished to see
a naked man, with streaming hair, rac-
ing through a clump of saplings at the
back of the pub. The nude one gripped
and vigorously shook each sapling as he
went through ; then turned and, shaking
the saplings on the way, sprinted back
to where he had left his towel and
trousers. The yokel recognised Sir John
Robertson. “The best shower bath
I’ve had for a month,” announced the
hon. gentleman as he wiped himself
with dew streaming out of his abundant
an( j w hiskers.
* * * *
“Vario”: Along the south coast
beaches of Queensland one of nature's
tragedies is being enacted. Thousands
of petrels are making their last pathetic
flight to the mainland from the Barrier
Reef, the bodies of the dead and dying
birds being washed ashore. Some old
hands hold that the birds come to the
mainland to die, driven by some in-
stinct ; others that they die from exhaus-
tion and starvation. It is an annual
occurrence.
* * * *
“J.R.D.”: I have a lot of sympathy
for those black-and-white artists who are
continually criticised for misrepresenting
the clobber of stockmen and other bush
types. The bushman who seldom leaves
the outback dresses himself in whatever
clothes the nearest store happens to have
in stock, or else repeats his last mail
order. All he asks is a material that is
durable and washable, that will not re-
strict his movements and may be com-
fortably slept in. Riding breeches and
leggings, which artists often use to depict
manager, overseer and choom types, are
extensively worn in some districts and by
horsemen who could hold their own any-
where ; but most outback cattlemen and
drovers stick to light washing trousers.
Bushmen dress to suit local conditions,
and horsemen in such contrasting
climates as the Georgina (W.Q.) and the
Moparo (N.S.W.) can’t be expected to
dress alike. And even in the bush fashions
change, though slowly. The cabbage-
tree is no more, and the two-gallon hat,
loud-checked shirt and jodhpurs are
working their way in. I once laughed
at a fellow wearing leather cowboy chaps,
but after picking black thistle thorns out
of my legs for a week I was only too
glad to make a pair for myself. The
trouble with many of the critics is that
they know their own district and no
further.
THE LITTLE TOWN OF BOWNA.
“The little township of Bowna, well known in the
old coaching days, is now drowned beneath the
waters of the Hume Reservoir.”
The little town of Bowna,
That lay where rivers run,
No longer looks to sunny skies,
Or feels the rain when summer dies,
Nor does it watch the spring go by,
For Bowna is a memory
Nearing oblivion.
Long, long ago to Bowna
The coaches bore their load,
And through the little drowned street
You then could hear the flying feet
Of horses as they bore away
The royal mail on posting day
Along the Bowna road.
They say, where storied Sussex
The restless Channel bounds,
From long-submerged, forgotten towns
That once lay on the sunny downs
Strange voices clamor in the night
And ancient kings on steeds of white
Ride forth with ghostly hounds.
So will the name of Bowna
Fade to a tale that’s told;
And folks will speak of those who trod
The Bowna roads and turned the sod
Of vanished fields in long-gone days
When over lost, forgotten ways
The rattling coaches rolled.
For Bowna is a memory
With the dead past bestowed.
But travellers in the dusk will hear
From out the waters rippling clear
A cracking whip, a warning shout,
To tell a phantom coach draws out
To take the Sydney road.
N.S.W.
TROY.


“Billy See”: Some of the flood of
flapper, journals at present sweeping the
Commonwealth found a backwash in the
abo. camp at Pinjarrah (W.A.) when
Mary arrived with a bundle donated by
the squatter’s missus. The following week-
end Jacky-Jacky, arriving full' as usual
with white-pfeller beer—and stoush —re-
ceived the surprise of his life when his
hitherto submissive helpmate socked
him with a waddy from behind the door.
Next morning, Jacky made aggrieved
remonstrance: “What for you do that?”
Mary was still belligerent. “By cripe, I
do it ’gen, you come home drunk and
try to hit me! I read de women’s paper.
1 stand up for woman’s rights. I’se gom’
to be de new kind of woman.” Jacky
began to pack his few belongings in a
chaff-bag. “What you do now?” Mary
demanded with some alarm. Jacky drew
himself up with dignity. “You goin’ to
be de new woman, eh? Well, you find
de plurry new man —I’se goin’! ”
* * * *
“Kirriki”: Back in the 'fifties my
great-grandfather helped a neighbor put
up a ihree-railed fence along a boundary.
Later they found that the line was
wrong by a couple of chains in width
and a mile in length. Instead of going
to law they decided to let it go at that
until a new fence was needed. The origi-
nal fencers are long since dead, while
the fifth generation on each side is still
being cautioned not to forget about fix-
ing up the fence should it collapse in
“Guess who?"
their time. From a recent examination,
the adjustment doesn’t look likely before
the fence’s centenary. So far the cost
of the error to the owner of the strip
of land runs into five figures.
“G.T.”: The tribe of bald abos. men-
tioned by “The Bridge” (B. 11/11/ ’36)
never existed. The old man quoted as
yardman at Cussen’s hotel in St. George
was “Bally Jimmy.” I played marbles
with Jimmy in the ’eighties. He was
not only bald on the head ; he didn’t
have a hair on any part of him. Jimmy,
who came from the lower Balonne, was
supposed to be a member of a hairless
tribe that existed in the dry country west
of the river, and George. Kirk, owner of
Cooleyarbor station, got in touch with
a clever fellow in Melbourne named
Baron von Mueller and interested him so
much that he came to have a look at
Jim and brought his best microscope.
Devil a hair could he find on him —
and that’s all there was to the bald blacks
of Balonne.
* * * *
“Dingo”: The thought that all the
aboriginal massacres in Australia’s his-
tory were perpetrated by English, Scots
and Irish settlers rather than by the
native-born (B. 25/11/’36) is not so curi-
ous as “Currency Lad” thinks, but a
matter of simple arithmetic. Australian-
born pioneers were an insignificant
minority up till about 1830. By this
time all the exterminating that was to be
done in the Eastern States was com-
pleted, except for minor incidents. It is
noteworthy, though, that the Empire on
the whole has a tendency to lower the
numbers of native populations with
which it comes in contact, and Australia
is no exception. Even to-day the “ex-
termination” mentality is far from
extinct.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: Where did “Salmon
Gums” (B. 11/11/ ’36) get the informa-
tion that jarrah is softwood? Not even
fresh off the saw is it easy to convert into
a statuette or a nut bowl, but after a little
seasoning it will blunt the best of a
carver’s tools. It may not be as hard
as tallowwood or ebony, but it is a
porous wood, and softwoods are not, and
it is mighty tough. to break under pres-
sures of any kind, as records prove. Its
classification in all forestry publications
is among the hardwoods.
3\i . * J|C
“Old-timer”: • Decrepit, very ancient,
he sat on an empty beer case in the bar
of a Mendooran (N.S.W.) pub. A yellow
dog lay beside his. swag on the floor.
“Strike me blind,” the old cove wheezed
as our prosperous looking party of six
stamped in, “I’m stiffer’n a crutch. After
battlin’ all day t’ cadge a pot outa the
publican he comes t’ light, an’ I haven’t
time t’ down it when in youse all walks.
Every o’ y’ good f’r a beer,” he
finished, with an optimistic grin. “Yair,
I’m on the hum,” he went on. “Bin on
it f’r twenty-odd year. It’s gettin’ tough,
lads. What with motors an’ “wireless an’
’planes, nobody’s got time t’ wait an’
shout a man a drink. An’ it’s me seven-
tieth birthday t’-day.” No offers coming,
he sighed, downed his pot and struggled
off the case. “Come orn, Bally,”
toeing the yellow dog. It made no re-
sponse. Quick examination. “Dead!”
he exclaimed. “Me poor ol’ Bally gorn.”
His grief shook 10s. out of us. We de-
parted. Two days later we struck it all
again at Coonabarabran, but this time
the dead Bally was a brindle.
* # * *
“Saddle-flap”: A tiger-snake isn’t in
it with the taipan of the Cape York
Peninsula for deadliness and quickness
off the mark. Binghi is scared stiff of
this ordinary-looking large brown
wriggler, and you rarely meet one under
six feet long. At Dimbulah (N.Q.) two
of us had an eight-footer cornered
in a barn pit. If took us half an hour
to get him on the head with a
pole. Quick? Swinging his head
“Gib it tickpen, boss."
"Here you are! And don't let me see you about this place again."
“Better make it a bob, then, boss."
about in a right and left hook as he
went, he, struck at an old boot dangled
before him without stopping to tele-
graph his blows, as a “tiger” does. He,
pierced the leather like paper. All the
fangs of these snakes I’ve examined are
over half an inch long, and the poison
grooves are nearly closed. I’ve never
seen them south of the Cairns-Chillagoe
railway.
¥ * * *
“Roly”: Small green frogs about liin.
long came down with a shower of rain
on the steamer Goondi on a recent trip
from Innisfail to Townsville. Numerous
cases of fish raining down are, of course,
now well authenticated, but a shower of
frogs is unique. The earliest record of
a rain of fish is dated third century b.c.,
and old woodcuts often show the pheno-
menon, though it was not scientifically
certified till the nineteenth century, when
the Zoological Society, sponsored by
Professor Owen, of London, proved the
instance of the rain of herring-fry near
Aberdare. There have been cases,
too, of small fish found in hailstones,
and it is quite well established that small
fry are caught up in waterspouts and
transferred inland. It is surprising, how-
ever, how many still regard it as a fisher*-
man’s yarn.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Because they were the largest
pair of shells we had fished that season
we had tossed them aside intending to
get them cleaned and polished to send
south as a gift. Somehow we. forgot, and
they were used as paperweights and,
finally, to prop open the door of the fore-
shore camp. They had been doing duty
in this fashion for over 12 months when
one of the Koepanger crew, coming to
the camp with the day’s meat, left it for
a moment on the table, sufficient time
for the cat to snatch up half a pound of
steak and bolt. The Koepanger picked up
a heavy mallet, threw it at the cat,
missed and skittled one of the shells.
Picking up the broken shell I examined
what I always thought was a mud blister,
but Ellies, the pearl expert at Broome
(W.A.), dug into it and extracted a five-
grain pearl. I shouted, and included the
cat.
“G.L.”: “James W.’s” neddy found
alive on an island after a mere nine
weeks’ stretch without water (B.
11/11/’36) isn’t' in it with a saddle horse
of the Innisfail (N.Q.) district. After
the 1918 cyclone the horse had evidently
vanished and was given up for dead.
Two years later his owner decided to
open up an old timber ramp, and, on
cutting his way through a mass of
tangled and shattered timber, discovered
the hack, rolling fat and full of beans,
peacefully feeding on the ramp. He
had lived on leaves and the sour-grass
that grew in the limited space, and the
only water he could possibly have had
was dew and any rain that had fallen.
There was not even a depression in the
ground where a sizable puddle could
form.
* * * *
“Admiral”: These utterances by learned
men do not always hit the mark. We
were splitting timber in the scrub, and
at dinner-time I read in the paper round
my lunch a doctor’s article. “The modern
man wears far too many clothes,” said
the article baldly. I looked at the gang.
Everybody was clad solely in shorts--
not a hat', boot or even singlet in the
whole bunch.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Why don’t swagmen and
other foot travellers' carry sleeping-bags
instead of the swag of blankets? I once
saw a swaggie who had made a fine
sleeping-bag out of a couple of wheat-
bags lined with possum-skins. The bag
had a draw-string which closed it com-
pletely over the sleeper’s head, a small
hole allowing him to breathe. With the
added advantage of being snake-proof,
the bag was warm enough for the coldest
night, and took up no more room than
ordinary blankets.
* * * *
“Sky Pilot”: Extraordinary what some
coves will come at. When a bullet stuck
somewhere in the region of the foresight
of his ancient singler-shot pea-rifle, Snowy,
the young rouseabout, filled the barrel
from the breech with water, inserted a
high-velocity cartridge, shut his eyes and
fired from the hip. When he came to
he was firmly clasping the splintered
remains of the stock. The barrel, bent
and shattered, was half a dozen yards
away, and the back window had been
effectively settled by flying metal.
DROVER’S SONG.
The rains have fallen. The holes are full
From Mungindi to Hay.
With talk of records in wheat and wool,
Tis time we made away
Across the plains where the wool-teams bog,
With saddles a-creak to the old stock-jog;
So kiss your girl and whistle, your dog,
We’re hitting the track to-day.
With blue-grass long on the Queensland side,
We’ll follow the drovers’ road,
A good fat stock-horse apiece to ride;
A packhorse strong to load.
A quid or two, till a job turns up,
Will keep us right for a bite and sup;
So kiss your girl and whistle your pup,
We’re leaving the old abode.
If north we ride we shall meet some mob
Short-handed on the way;
There’s always someone that slings his job
To booze away his pay.
And on the stock-route ’tis more than like
Some old-time mates of the road we’ll strike;
So kiss your girl and whistle your tyke;
It’s time we were on our way.
The smell of dust where the cattle ring,
Of sandalwood after rain!
The songs that only the bushbirds sing,
The brolgas’ dance on the plain!
The wild, wide lands where dustclouds whirl!
The cheery glow ’neath the camp-smoke’s
curl! ...
Oh, blast that dog! and forget that girl
Until we return again.
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
m
ill
si!
iltll
**■
n
I.J I
lilfi
wpiii
mm
Pllji
■
■
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Why is it that some children stay away from
school?” — “Sun.”
Possibly still further evidence of the
spread of class hatred.
•F *F *F *F
“After 70, few men think of marriage.”
— “Sun.”
No; the great desire in old age is
peace.
"A controversy between the Water Conserva-
tion and Irrigation Commission and the Wade
Shire is of interest, particularly in respect of:
the virtues or failings of Paterson’s Curse.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Mrs. Freer is certainly being widely
discussed.
“This is a business in which no dividends
have been paid since 1026.” — “Sun.”
The descendants of the original share-
holders must be almost giving up hope.
“The turkey is a poor flier,” says a natural-
ist.
Has he ever tried to carve one?
Parliamentary Event, 1938.
“A play in London had to be cancelled owing
to the star having gone to see another play.”
The glittering cavalcade of Light
Horseman dashed through Canberra with
pennons raised, followed by an equally
picturesque cortege of policemen
mounted on horses and cycles, while the
crowds of plainclothes detectives lining
the footpaths cheered themselves hoarse.
At Parliament House, Australia’s per-
manent army, drawn up in single file, pre-
sented arms like one man.
The Governor acknowledged the salute
and mounted the steps to the entrance.
There was no one to greet him but the
caretaker.
“Hang it, man,” rapped out vice-
regality, “they couldn’t have forgotten I
was coming! I’m opening Parliament to-
day ! ”
“ ’Fraid you’re stiff, boss,” sympa-
thised the caretaker. “Ain’t you ’eard?
They’ve all gone off to see the Corona-
tion!”
Cloon.
•I* ❖ 4* Ht*
“What should a man say to a woman who
asks him if he snores in his sleep?” asks a
newspaper correspondent.
Good-bye as quickly as possible.
"Hey, the water fr Washing s over there. That's the drinking Water you're
using.”
“Drinking watter? Lassie, there's nae siching.”
“Man picks up £2OOO in notes only to dis-
cover it stage-money. — News item.
Some actor must have lost his wages.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“If I saw my daughter going down the
street in such a costume 1 would jpake her take
it off at once."—"Old-fashioned,” Beach-road,
Coogee, in the "Sun.”
It is understood that Beach-road,
Coogee 5 isnow thronged with people
hS for .te best
“ Mothers' meeting will be eld next Toosd ' afternoon, and We want
every single mother to be present .”
“Save money by pasting your new wallpaper
on yourself.”— Advt.
But is the discomfort worth it?
“Cedric terminated his engagement because
His fiancee joined a nude club.” —From a novel.
So for him as well everything was off!
“Thousands of Women in Conference.”
—' “S. M. Her id.”
Over as many back fences.
•F *F *F *F
Headway.
The golfer was driving off in front of
the teeing mark when the club secretary
happened along.
“Here!” he cried indignantly. “You
can’t do that! You’re disqualified.”
“What for?” demanded the player.
“You’re driving off in front of the
mark.”
The player looked at him savagely.
“You will excuse me,” he said tersely,
“I’m playing my third stroke.”
Orontes.
•!• *!- •I* -!-
“Man who steals 50-pound says he
didn’t know what he was doing.” — “Sun.”
He’s not the only one who doesn't
know what one looks like.
•F *F *F 4*
“Surgeon’s knife cuts away worry.”
—‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Yes, of one kind.
•J* »J«
“Instances can be given of men who have
made success by praying for it.”
—‘‘Church Times.”
More, however, have succeeded by
preying for it.
•F »F *F *l*
With Best Wishes.
He pressed his way through the crowd
of Christmas shoppers.
He had only a half-note left in his
pocket, but he was willing to spend it all
on his old friend. He would never
forget George at Christmas—never!
They had stuck to each other through
thick and thin for as long as he could re-
member.
He did not bother to glance in the dis-
plays of shop windows. They would
offer nothing suitable. He knew'exactly
what old George wanted.
Smiling in anticipation of the pleasure
his gift would provide, he turned into a
public bar and bought himself the bottle
of Scotch.
T. W. N.
“Astronomers are badly paid.” ■
■ ■
Still, their occupation is looking up.
4* 4* 4*
“Shares in Pianos Rise.” — News item.
Evidently a sound investment,
v ‘ v ‘ , . t
“Married men should wear something to
show that they are married,” says a emm®.
1„ addition to that unmistakable look?
This Gardening Business.
11.
The type of gardener analysed in the
first of these agricultural chapters belongs,
of course, to the voluntary school. He is
beyond hope of redemption. With him
it is a sort of self-inflicted disease. He
neither gets nor merits sympathy for his
condition.
But what of that other, larger school
of sad sod-breakers, driven reluctantly to
the craft by the indisputable authority of
a Voice?
As constantly-dripping waters wear out
rocks, so constantly-dropping hints wear
out wrecks that were once men. With
typical feminine persistency the wives
of these unfortunates never let up, so
that in the end —which but proves to be
the beginning—for the ineffable peace
which they fondly, but mistakenly, hope
will be theirs outside the house, these
creatures flattered by the name of men
slink off to the spade, utterly ignorant of
Nature’s earthy mysteries and blindly
hoping for the best. Recalcitrant, stub-
born even, they may be at first, but they
will be beaten to their knees in the end.
It is the practice among wives of these
miserable wretches to hold precept up as
an incentive to more furious agricultural
efforts. When there is a bridge-party
on at home, for instance, and the per-
fume of roses wafted in the open window
brings a rapturous comment from one of
the visitors, there will be a pause, then
an ominous: “Oh, yes, they’re from Mr.
Sookey’s next door —he has such a
beautiful garden.” Then, after a suit-
able pause, the while she fixes her un-
comfortable spouse with a basilisk eye,
will come the inexorable barbed adden-
dum: “Just like ours!”
He will learn, in the bitter school of
experience, that one doesn’t pull half-
grown delphiniums up and examine the
roots to see if they are encumbered by
some fungus disease, and that the raising
of 6 p.c. of the seeds put into a box may
be considered a wild success. One con-
solation he will have: the untrammelled
freedom, provided he is in the garden
alone, wholeheartedly to curse the idiot
next door for having such a good
garden.
I know of only one “compulsory”
gardener who has ever beaten the system
and his wife’s persistence—that is my
Uncle Aubrey, who is a wily old bird.
When the inevitable screw was put on
by his large and masterful spouse, my
Aunt Juniper, Uncle at first rebelled, and
then suddenly submitted. It caused me
acute disappointment at the time, be-
cause I like to see a man put up a decent
fight against feminine domination.
One Saturday afternoon I stumbled on
the reason for his philosophical capitula-
tion. Uncle’s vegetable garden is sepa-
rated from his back lawn by a low hedge.
He eyidently didn’t hear me come over
the soft turf, for he was on his knees
by the hedge, the neck of an upturned
beer bottle half-way down his throat. I
have considerable affection for my Uncle
Aubrey.
S. W. K.
Turned Back.
In plaintive voice his small son asked,
“Is Father Christmas dead ?”
“Nay, nay, my son,” his sire replied, and
sadly shook his head.
“To get here Daddy Christmas tried,
and did his level best,
But Customs lads bamboozled him with
their dictation test.
Because his job has taken him to every
foreign part,
Gaelic, Greek or Arabic, he knew them
all by heart.
They tried him with the language spoken
down in Timbuctoo;
Then ordered him to sing in Welsh ‘Two
Little Girls in Blue.’
With German, Afrikaans, Korean, Per-
sian, Portuguese,
He showed those Customs chaps that he
was very much at ease.
Then suddenly a cunning move placed
him within their clutch —
Poor Father Christmas failed to pass the
test in Double ■ Dutch !”
D. McM.
Taking the Count.
“She found herself proudly and securely in
possession of the title Mrs. John Barrymore,
Number Four.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Though classified as Number Four,
She’s proud to be a Barrymore,
And hopes, no doubt, to steer quite free
Of snags that upset One, Two, Three.
Alas! in Hollywood they thrive
On ring events, and Number Five
Might yet put Number Four to rout
With that dread verdict “ eight, nine,
out!”
McM.


.'£§3B
mm
■Hf
tB
mm
K mm
m
m&
m
m
M
u
mm
i - m
, . : •>< <
■r i
ra&Kf tp
' \,
Ife
1
" a
m
H
M
*:>
¥
%
• !
SB?r
w
>■. -'; •.'/•
A
■, V ®
K
UN
IS
:•■
mi
m
?K, ',»»
BhK'<
> &
-
• •;• •:->
: * ''#*
111 1
toi;
i
11?
m
\ '■'* i ■'
m
4,
m
m
H
?■■*
Wsk&l
, ■
:: ,: *
jpHPf/* \V*\V' *
Rg£spnsf>s <\ &&
Tk ' V ■L - "{'Jp'
1 !
m
i
siyr
Stfe^
ipr mtijk.'C %
■
■
Wm
m
111
1
1
■
■
n
**.V-
;vs
si
- ■
■:
•mm
m
ms
. v
i
Jfj
P
ifc'SWS
i-'
> |
■
W?
m.
m i
* > jgL ; . >1
: -. /iA'
s** > i ■ ..
sgf" •* » t-fffl rr- fi. .. #gp 1
i
y&>4v!>A
.>#.
* £ .r
!
< 1
...................... mm
'I
.;
V
'. '4^:
ilPw'
m|, : ’ 4-' %' '
tt-SS*''
■K
ra-
fcxj
f -dwar
■f > * s
* K ''i . ~* \ ..- **v. .1*
, • • '<. ':
wm
■#s£
-■:
lutf
I* i
'-,■- -i-,
ir'" *. V - : J
.■: : : : -
M :v
. 1
■Rfr 1
M'Fmi
■
wm
*f
: .. v ,*--'
wm/
WSxsmJ M&- mM/’ . '-m.M.
m
©!■
mmm
M§i
*
■r /, ■.
'
jg&ttti \. At- r .
"v-
-v/'
u' f !
V ' % •
SPIW"" ' ;' i
SjpEt- "•
V is:
' /■ .: . '. •
t - -
; v
..
Sr
■ :;:
Santa Claus has un«
harnessed his steeds.
.. . He’s back from the
cots of the slumber-
ing children.
But there’s still left a
gift in that haversack
of his—a gift to grown-
ups, of health, of
purity, of sparkling
good spirits ....
<*V
CLUB LACER
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND— Burns. Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND—Dalgety & Co.. Ltd., Rockhampton
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson k Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart. ,
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
€LUB
. 11 :JTu'j «>KTi
J.A6E&


K PAGE OF
VERSES
Escape.
Here the earth-sweetened and bloom-lighted
bough
Has made another thing of common air,
And wears a quick and shining strangeness now,
As though it waited, tremulously, there
The moment of the crucial, swift escape
Of mortal bloom into immortal light,
Henceforward known no more by color or shape
That once were sweetness on our mortal
sight.
Another day—to-morrow, or the next —
See how the grass beneath the tree is sown
With the old letters of the mortal text,
Telling so much as may be surely known
Of bloom and bough, save that they some-
times wear
A shining strangeness not of common air.
QUEENSLAND.
BEATRICE HOLMAN.
History of Don Quixote.
Attended by an ass upon an ass,
A faithful fool upon a faithful beast,
Romance went forth to set the world to rights,
With casque awry and flimsy lance in rest,
Riding a scarecrow horse across the grass
Through blazing days and starry, dewless nights.
Romance blindfolded with a veil of dream
Saw gods in cloud, and where among the
stones
Crickets and reptiles, parched in that blue air,
Whispered complaint, perceived the matchless
tones
Of choirs of love and honor, which did seem
To make the whole world exquisitely fair,
Or by old tumbling barns that spoke with wind
The dusky bat-cry fell into his ears
As urgent as a woman’s cry to him,
So that his madman’s eyes grew dark with
tears
Of knighthood furious, and he was blind,
Not knowing night had made his vision dim.
Or you would find him, hinged and creaking
still,
Kneeling a vigil that he could not keep
Because old age constrained him heavily;
And in the wonder between sleep and sleep
He saw the dawn come streaming down a hill
To fire the dry grass of his sanctuary
And light a flame in his fierce, anxious eyes
Still dazed with dreaming; while upon his feet
His faithful fool must help him. Now his quest
Led him through many an echoing village street
Where he was seen and called to with surprise;
But high intention still forbade him rest
Until with courage, love and chivalry
He had enlarged the world for gentlemen , . .
If you had seen him, elegantly daft,
Beaten a little, humored now and then.
You would have better known how mightily
Good men slapped thigh, and pretty women
laughed.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
King Magyarudas and Death.
He says that he is Death. You say he lies.
His voice is humble and his eyes are kind.
With hat in hand, beneath these yellow skies
Whose kernel is the moon, whose stem the
wind,
He stands and says that when he leaves our
yurts
He crosses a desert like a cloth of gold.
The idle freedom of his wandering hurts,
As though my love were dead, or I were old.
Tell me what means it when a tall man stands
Before the king, and, 10, black shadows
spread
Their thirsty bodies through the king’s own
lands
And on their fringes dance long shapes of red,
Oh, slow and saturating like the sun,
And no man sees them, Stranger, save we
two?
I love you well for that; we seem as one.
lam man’s king no more: I reign with you.
Why are my women bowed down at thy feet,
O subtle Stranger? See, no word he speaks.
His mouth above his curled black beard is
sweet,
And the red saddle on his stallion creaks.
If I had owned an animal, by God,
Like this grey stallion, with its mane of fire,
My kingdom would be any road it trod;
But thou, whose jacket bears the paints of
Tyre,
Seemingly hast not found thy kingdom yet.
There glows an ancient glory in thy dress,
Where starved Egyptian jackals wrought in jet
Feed on dead dragons in the wilderness.
These aprons and soft skirts of rich old hide
Which thou dost nobly wear appear to me
Like to the gilded breasts of kings who’ve died,
And he who cares may read a dynasty. _
Where is my father’s breast? Below thy hip
I see the haughty fabric of his skin.
I was his son. The pressure of his lip
Summoned my soul. Man, let us go within.
Implore me not, you women. In this breast
Breathe ecstasies which wrench our fires
apart,
These arms you kiss were made to clothe my
guest.
Let me, in courtesy, with him depart.
MAORILAND.
EVE LANGLEY.
Swans.
I order my thoughts to keep pace with the
morning;
I order my thoughts till they move at com-
mand.
I have been long in a world of star quiet.
The sun! The sun is flooding the land!
My self is not eager to leave the sweet quiet,
But. I am awake and the day has begun.
White swans in a silent procession arc moving
Across a round lake, a round lake in the
sun.
Curving green shore is a circle that holds them.
White swans move on till they reach a green
arc.
Slowly then turning, they make a new crossing—
Dark unto daylight and daylight to dark.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN STRONG.
Day and Night with Snow.
I.
Like water easing brownly to a pool
This curve of rich drooped chestnut coils
the mare
In softest resignation to the snow,
Still cored with darkness spinhing through
the air.
What though her foal adorably may fool,
Curvet the pattern with a gawkish eddy,
He too is in submission to the cold
And like the chestnut haunches, or a bough,
Must gently to the circling softness fold.
Ah, with a wilder arc a dazed brown bird
Ribbons a ttail of terror through the fall,
Linking the snow’s cold flurry for a moment
To all birds that in silver salvos call
Rage at a world with frozen feathers blurred.
Blackbird and thrush and tiny red-throat
finches,
While the lost brown one bullets to the
hedge,
Shriek as if snow’s dark feathers were the
hawk’s
Whose wings’ black shadow sets their nerves
on edge.
11.
Pale-green the sky now, pale, unearthly green,
And arched in trembling semblance of a
shell.
Like the last ringlet of a sinking pebble,
Like the last whining of a waning bell,
The darkness thinned where snow and fog had
been,
Then pale-green nacre filmed the clean rinsed
heavens.
Sea-green remoteness and the white of sea
Are strangeness here, and monstrous in the ear
Chimes the huge shell’s unearthly melody.
Still, still is the swamp; the trees are still
Under the jade that trembles in its trance;
Only from rushes washed to marvellous fawn
A fawn hare darts, and, wary of mischance,
Goes cantering up the thinly-whitened hill.
And warily I go, too; watch step and thought,
For all is fragile in the moment’s palace,
And one might taste the pale-green wine of
madness
Too deeply drinking at this faery chalice.
111.
Now to a cautious stillness tune my motion.
On the long land the surf of snow is mute,
A stillborn foam on lank leagues racked with
cold.
Not the mad shell, the whinnying green flute,
But lubber earth demands the heart’s devotion;
So with a loglike creak I trudge the road
To mark with thicker joy the fields allow
Snow on the mushroom haystacks, snow now
lying
White on black ploughland, white on the
rusty plough.
Snow flaps from the hedge. Beyond in the
slushy sty
The black pigs guzzle at their snow-chilled
trough,
And grunt and squeal and splash the rancid
whey.
Cows with uneasy gait go skidding off,
Sniff at the grass, and start, and spurt like
grey
Monstrosities of leaves before the wind.
Unrest and hunger! Numb with cold 1 go
Along a colder and a darker road
To see how tree-ferns like the taste of snow.
IV.
They make obeisance: like the mare’s drooped
flank, .
Their long tongue-licking leaves are weighted
low.
A hare’s soft fawn I think would suit their
natures
Better than this cold churlish fur of snow.
But let that go; here all the bush is dank:
Snow veins the leaves with silver, lines the
vines
And soaks the dark-green sponges of the
moss; .
Snow sprawls like fungus on the rotting logs
And drags the living earthwards like a cross.
White segments gannet down from higher
boughs
And splash amongst the brown and bony
leaves
That float like seaweed on the oily mould.
But look! The clammy sea-green gloom
deceives;
The rimu through the drowning strongly
ploughs
And golden against the bruise-blue giant
mountain
Brandishes its foliage like a fist,
And towers a torch of gold while darkness
croaks
Froglike across the gorges and the mist.
V.
Red and gold is the whirlpool; whirl of flame
That draws us firewards with a crackling
suction.
Crouch to the fire, clods, crouch! These coils
are strong
Against the snow that lures us to destruction,
Dizzying, dizzying, calling us by name,
By name and more than that in the wild night.
Talk lewder now, and turn the radio
Louder, and shout the whirling darkness down,
And someone lock the door against the snow.
So in a bleak time once I reached the end
Of troubling and pianoing desire,
And dead as stone in age-old leathery silence
Crouched with two savages beside a fire,
And, as a dog knows, knew them both for
friend.
Corncobs and drying shark were hung on wall,
And sooty kettle swung from a black chain,
And rain outside, and shadows in. The woman
Jabbed at the embers. And then was still
again.
VI.
So there was stillness in that ancient alley
Gouged in dead time to keep a savage warm,
But leather around the fire there bound us all
The dead time’s deadly measure to conform.
From that brown lake of silence in the valley
I was the stream that gouged the gorge and
leapt
To unknown ocean with a silver clangor;
Here I am birds that shriek from sheltering
hedge
The boomeranging silver of their anger.
Unrest and ocean! Now the moon’s green
pearl
Gleams in the whinnying nacre of the sky,
And I must hunt it crying over the fields
Where the long snows in glistening rollers lie
And toi-toi plumes like seabirds flash and
whirl.
Oh, clearly now the sky’s green trembling shell
Echoes the ocean where our spirits go;
The pale-green bells, the jangling of the.
water
Above the calmer foaming of the snow.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
Madrigal.
From darkest nights I rise
Into darker day
Where brightest heavens are clouded grey
With the rain in my eyes;
Nor all the winds in the skies
Can blow these clouds away,
Nor will they melt to-day
Nor on any morrow,
But, frozen, they
Therein preserve my sorrow.
N.S.W.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
In a Garden.
The laughing lips of flower-soft moments harden
Into a mask of winter pinched and cold.
How faint the light falls in this fog-webbed
garden!
How grey all things have grown, how grey
and old!
Beneath our feet the brittle leaves are lying
That were so green, against the golden blaze.
Leaves, lives and loves, like summer dreams,
are dying.
We who have wondered pass, but wonder
stays.
Does not dusk bring us yet her dream Elysian,
Her rose of stars, eternally reborn!
It is but we who fail, with faltering vision,
With peering eyes long hardened into horn!
Earth is so young. Even her first tears,
gleaming
In silver sea-pools, have not wholly dried.
Surely one last, lost lotus-leaf of dreaming
Drifts in the nets of such a shining tide.
Ah. surely there beyond that desert shadow,
Those savage, splintered peaks of ice and
fire,
Gleams the gold labyrinth of Eldorado
Circling the secret of the world’s desire!
The golden storm of Beauty breaks in thunder;
Death’s black triremes fade on a dawn-red
sea;
Immortal morning keeps the ways of wonder,
Loves, lives and leaves grow young again
for me.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Garrakeen.
Garrakeen, the parakeet, is slim and swift.
Like a spear of green and red he flashes through
The cumbered branches by the river bank.
Watch him, brighter than the clouds, before the
day is done;
Watch him in the morning when the gums are
bathed with dew,
Rivalling the spears of the sun.
When dawn flamed on the Murray, I watched
for Garrakeen . . .
Opaline purple and crimson was the river . . .
He came from the west with blood on his
breast,
And the colors of the water were sluggish in
sheen
Compared with his fire in the air;
The voice of the water was shattered by one
Shrill from the spear-bird hurrying there,
Flying with the light of the east in his sight,
Rivalling the spears of the sun.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.
Syncope.
Green fields are glowing,
Bowing, blowing
Wanton caresses to every wind’s lip;
Hares leap, and run round,
Fall over, rebound;
Butterflies feign to be thrifty of wing-tip;
Where the clouds dally
Currawongs rally
Long-ringing echoes that waver and dip ;
Yodelling magpie,
Sapphire dragonfly
Down the white waterfall-staircases skip;
Now, in armadas,
Startled cicadas
Tattoo the air with sorcery gossip,
Tangled, the rain spills;
Bloom-curdled foothills
Shake off the quicksilver shadows that slip
Under blue grasses
Into the passes,
Climbing the boulders where diamonds drip.
N.S.W.
E. V. BARTON.
The Lesson.
The dying leaf lightly,
Not fretting, not mourning,
But nimbly and sprightly
Twisting and turning,
Floats to the earth,
As the ballerina, lithe and lean,
Posing in death, yet
Flits off the stage at the close of her scene
With a gay pirouette.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
Lanternlight.
With lanternlight these memories stir again . ..
Dim hills, and rain
Falling from darkness, glinting down the gold
Globes of ripe guavas amid dripping leaves;
Tall masts that seem
To soar to the white stars, while, all a-dream,
The moon-enchanted sea
Glimmers to the sky’s edge.or the blue rise
Of a hushed isle and lone;
A tropic road before
The open door
Of some half-native, frowsy house, where prone,
With fair hair shining, lies
A fair-limbed child upon the matted floor,
Reading by lanternlight:
And I who pass,
Pausing a moment in the dew-wet grass,
Wonder if races, alien each to each,
That blent to give her life,
Now endlessly
For mastery of her young soul make strife.
And then the sound
Of rhythmic clapping, even as the beat
Of waves on the long beach
Silvered beneath the round
White moon that sails above the dark-plumed
palms,
About a reeded house, with lanterns lit,
There young Lotisa
Sidles on naked feet,
Pauses, sways back, while supple hands and
arms
Weave slow familiar patterns on the air,
And suddenly,
As though a dark wind swept ’twixt them and
me
From their scarce-historied past, these girls
I know—
Bland Leba, Via-Via, slim Tamari,
Rapt Iri chanting low —
Are strange dark women. I, a stranger, watch
them,
Half-knowing how
They are forgetful of all new things now,
And troubled in their stead
By moods barbaric, ancient, as were dead,
Dark women of their blood, whose sinuous
hands
Once wove these same slow patterns on the
night • • • , ....
These memories come to me with lantemlignt.
N.S.W.
A. SMITH.


Another Fine Australian Novel
I SOLD
MY HORSES
BY ERIC LOWE
My grandfather died, and l never knew how ;
He left me six horses to drive in the plough.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
I sold my horses, and I bought a little cow,
But when I went to milk her I didn’t know how.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
I sold my cow, and I bought a little cat;
The wicked little thing on the mantelpiece she sat.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
1 sold my cat, and 1 bought a little mouse;
Its tail caught fire and it burnt down the house.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
Chapter XXL
o Continued .)
" MINUTE ago Steve Dent had been riding
forward carelessly; now when Robin
looked he was not there. He suddenly
realised that the whole troop had turned
and was galloping back. He had seen
nothing, heard nothing.
Steve had reined back his horse and was shouting
angrily “Come on, you bloody fool. What are you
waiting for?” And then, for he was isolated and a
stationary target, bullets started to fly all about him,
whining past his head, hitting the ground beside him,
under his horse’s belly. He turned and drove his
horse forward, using the spurs. He was conscious of
no strong emotion, neither of fear nor exhilaration.
He had been galloping a little while when Dent
rode close to him.
“All right?” he asked. “What were you waiting
for?”
“I didn’t know anything had started,” Robin said.
There was desultory firing behind them, and odd
bullets were whistling past or ricocheting with an evil
screech. Steve was laughing and looking back as he
rode, and Robin could see that, veteran as he was, the
man was excited. He discovered later that Steve —in
fact all but his ignorant self—was listening with
anxious ears for the stutter of a machine-gun.
They rode without mishap into the middle of the
waiting regiment. The men were dismounted, lining
the lip of the wady. The horses were farther down
the bed. Neither men nor horses seemed perturbed.
ROBIN lay beside Steve Dent. Close to him on the
other side were two men with a Hotchkiss gun. No
trigger had been pulled. The fire from the Turkish
trenches had increased, and Robin realised that they
could not have ridden so far forward as he had
imagined, for the rifles were cracking not more than
a thousand yards ahead. The exact position of the
trenches was quite obvious now, though no Turks
were visible. He heard the staccato rattle of machine-
guns. They were playing backwards and forwards
along the lip of the wady. He felt his hat peppered
with dirt and little pebbles, and then Steve’s hand on
his leg, pulling him lower down the bank.
“Just as well to duck your head when them things
are talking,” he said.
“What happens now?” Robin asked.
“Nothing.”
“Don’t we fire at all?”
“What’s the use? Can you see anything to fire
at?”
“Then what are we going to do?”
“Sit tight. If I know anything of Mister Barney
Case you’ll have all the action you want before long.
I reckon you’ll hear him bawl ‘Come on! We’ll
gallop ’em or something! ’ ”
The words were hardly spoken when the order
came “Horses up! Prepare to mount!”
The men were hardly in the saddle when Robin
heard a roar of laughter, and Barney’s voice: “The
beggars are turning it in, or something.”
Months later, writing of this day to Brand
Stewart, Robin said:
‘‘lt. would be hard for you to imagine my
feelings. Disappointment, of course, but a good
deal more than that and rage, quite a mur-
derous rage. When we were on guard over the
Turkish prisoners I could readily have killed
them all in cold blood. It was horrible, really,
as I remember it now. Something told me even
then that my only opportunity of proving my-
self, knowing myself, had been taken from me,
and I, quite irrationally, blamed the Turks.
The nasty part of it is the realisation that I
wanted to kill —not just for the experience of
killing, but because I actually wanted to. A
little later in the show there was a native
battalion sent out to take a hill. They had
never been in action before and started the
charge with great elan. They were almost in
the trenches when the Turks threw in the towel.
Well, the native troops would not accept the
surrender. They were not going to be cheated
of their hour of glory. Their officers could not
hold them, and they wiped out that band of
Turks —bayoneted them, unresisting and half of
them unarmed. I know just why they did it
and how they felt.”
Chapter XXII.
jp»OU could get leave easy enough,”
yW Steve Dent said. He pulled the
Jjk “makings” out of his tunic
pocket and started to roll a
cigarette. The cactus which lined the
sunken road they had been riding had given place to
an avenue of tall gum-trees, and the smell of them in
the still, moist air of early morning was charged with
vague memories. Robin had heard Brand Stewart
speak of the smell of wattle in the rain in South
Africa, and the nostalgia it carried to even a hardened
wanderer like himself.
Scents to many people were more memory-stirring
than sights or sounds, though the memory was often
more elusive. He wondered if the smell of eucalyptus
roused any emotions in the horses. These that they
were leading were practically all Australian-bred, the
first to come over, C-class now, worn out and blind
and halt, their, usefulness outlived. Now that they
were no longer needed in any capacity—now that the
war was over —they were to be shot. They moved on
to meet death unknowing, dull-eyed and listless.
“Easy enough,” Steve repeated, “if you want to
go so much. All the nineteen-fourteen men are going,
they tell us —all that are left, and I’m one of them—
and a few special cases. You could get them to send
word from home a cable would be best saying
you’re needed there pretty bad. Write and tell them
what to say ; there’s no censoring letters now, and no
one will know you’re working it from this end. A
lot of the boys are trying it. They haven’t much
hope, but I reckon you’d be a certainty married,
with a couple of kids, and knowing Barney Case and
all. He’ll work it for you if he has anything at all
to go on.”
“I have written,” Robin said. “They’ve had
time to reply, but I haven’t heard anything yet.”
THE 1914 men and a few special cases were to be
sent home —but the 1914 horses were to die. All
the horses were to be shot, rumor said. None would
be allowed to return to Australia because all were
carriers of Eastern diseases.
They were to be shot. Yesterday 800 had died
in rows on the sandhills, and to-day a thousand more
were walking out to die, walking out through
eucalyptus trees which smelt of home. The sand, as
restless as the sea, would surge over them, blotting
out their bodies, but nothing could blot out the
memory of those still lines, chestnuts and bays and
browns. Australian horses that had carried Australian
men, standing up to heat and hardship as no others
could, marching and fighting without water, covering
incredible distances on a handful of dried beans,
swinging away with that long, effortless walk that left
other mounted regiments as though standing. Horses
that had galloped over the Turkish trenches at Beer-
sheba. Australian horses the finest remounts the
world had ever known. They came into the unknown
bewildered but unafraid. They faced hardship and
mutilation and slaughter with a courage which, dumb
beasts though they were, stimulated and exalted men.
And their ultimate reward was death amongst the
sandhills —death at the hands of the men they had
carried. A quick death, certainly, and humane in that
it saved them from further misery; but they had
earned, surely, a better fate than this.
THE war was over, and the breach of Robin’s rifle
remained unfouled, his bayonet unfleshed. He
had never fired a shot; had in actuality never been in
action, for the fire-drawing episode could not by the
widest stretch of imagination be called action, and
Ziza had been a farce.
The memory of Ziza was the memory of some
absurd drama presented on an impossible stage by
lunatic players. Even now Robin could not believe
it had happened.
In Ziza were five thousand Turks willing to sur-
render, and facing them were hordes of Arabs —
British allies —waiting to annihilate them the instant
they should lay down their arms. The regiment,
rushed up to take the place, was sent into the town
to encourage the still-armed Turks and stiffen their
resistance throughout one mad night. The Australians
took no part in the actual fighting, but with laughter
and raillery cheered on their erstwhile enemies until,
fresh troops coming with the morning, the Turks had
surrendered, sure now of protection from the mur-
derous tribesmen. The war in Palestine was over.
On the following day the Turkish armistice was signed.
The next six weeks were crowded with rumors.
The general opinion was that the Light Horse regi-
ments would be sent to France —might even be used
as cavalry, for the German resistance was broken and
the stalemate of trench warfare seemed over. In early
November came the final collapse, and at last the
general armtistice.
Robin was at Richon le Zion then. Again he
was aware of the utter weariness and disinterest of
the men. They accepted this news as for months
they had accepted hardship or ease, death or escape —
without comment, without apparent feeling. There
was no excitement, no cheering. Someone in the
waiting lines drawn up for morning orders remarked
“I suppose that’s dinkum —this time.” That was all.
Their soldiering was over. They would wait now
with the same lethargic patience until they were taken
home, whenever that might be.
But not so Robin. If he had fretted to join the
army he raged now to leave it. When day followed
day, week followed week, and there was still no word
of returning, he became gradually more and more
despondent. A sense of futility possessed him. A
sense of failure and hopeless frustration as bitter as
death itself.
THE long column of led horses streamed out from
the tree-lined road, across the plain, over the grass
which was springing now green and young, leaving for
ever the smell of the gums, moving quickly closer and
closer to the sandhills and oblivion.
“This is a rotten show,” Robin blurted out.
“Ye-es!” Steve Dent drawled the word, and
thoughtfully refit his cigarette. “It seems more rotten
because there’s such a lot of them. If a horse broke
its leg you’d be the first to shoot it. Do you remember
a pony stallion of Jim Coulter’s on the river that got
his nosebag on the branding fire? He went mad, and
we couldn’t get it off until his head was horribly
burnt. He might have lived—you said so yourself—
but you shot him to put him out of pain.”
Steve’s cigarette had burnt to a soggy butt. He
spat it out and started to roll another.
“I reckon,” he said, “this is the same sort of
thing. Most of these horses would live for a few
more years, but what would their lives be worth?
Worked to a standstill by Arabs or Jews, flogged and
ill-treated and half-fed —this is better.” He handed
tobacco and papers to Robin. “Smoke?”
“Thanks.” Robin took the pouch.
They were riding through sand now. Another
mile, a few more minutes, and the wholesale slaughter
would begin. No doubt Steve’s attitude was the right
one. His unemotional reasoning, Robin thought, was
another proof of his maturity. Most of the men
were the same, though some of them were more
emotionally disturbed by this cold-blooded killing than
they had ever been in battle. Yesterday there had
been a row of some sort. A man from another
regiment had been knocked from his horse and
trampled on. Steve, Robin believed, had been some-
where close, so he asked “What was the trouble over
the little dark chap who was hurt yesterday?” and
was surprised at the anger which flamed instantly in
Steve’s face.
“That fellow,” he said. “He’s lucky he’s not dead!
He was riding at the rear of the column, and tried
to sell a horse to an Arab. Actually had sold it for
a hundred and fifty piastres when one of the other
boys saw what he’d done. There was a hell of a
row. The horses were all milling around, and some-


one cracked the fellow and knocked him into the
middle of it. The Arab beat it on the horse he’d
bought, but he didn’t get far.
“What happened to the hundred and fifty
piastres?”
“Well, now!” Steve said in surprise. “I suppose
he has it still. No one thought of that.” He
chuckled. “That damn’ Arab did make rather a song
about something when we hunted him off.”
“Halt!” The long column stood fast.. “Men with
revolvers and automatics, come out.”
The horrible business would start now. Robin
took a quick look around. To the right on a sandhill
Barney Case and two other officers had reined-up
their mounts and were looking over the ground that
had been the scene of yesterday’s tragedy. Robin
saw Barney’s hand stretched out, his hand pointing ;
heard his voice in a bull-like roar: “Hunt those damn’
crows away! Good God, look at them! ”
On the opposite side of this place of death were
pitched a score or more Arab tents, and the Bedouins,
men, women and children, were out amongst the still
lines, digging the covering sand away, skinning the
dead bodies, cutting off the meat.
A sergeant and four troopers cantered forward,
shepherding the Arabs out of the depression in which
the horses lay. They moved reluctantly, and no
further than they had to, lining the lip of the hollow
like crows that wait for men to go before returning
to their feast.
IT seemed to Robin, now that the war was ended,
that everything had failed. He was left without
purpose and without hope. In everything he had lost
the substance for the shadow, striving for personal
happiness and contentment which had been mirage-
like, non-existent. He had refused a University
education so that he might come back to Malwa. He
had thrown away Malwa and his heritage for life
with Myrna. He had sacrificed Lammas, Myrna’s
home, for Naranbah, the playground. Finally, in one
desperate throw he had flung to the winds all that
remained of stability and happiness for some intan-
gible end which he could not at any time have clearly
defined, only to see fulfilment of desire plucked from
him at the last moment.
It had always been the same, he thought. He
might strive for something with absolute singleness
of purpose, and with his desire attained it would be
taken from him or turn to dust and ashes.
He could not escape the tireless hounding of
pursuing memories, and should he turn to meet them
he would be confronted with faces, personalities of
the people he had hurt—and all of them had loved
him.
His misery at this time was the more awful
because, caught in the aftermath of inaction, he could
find no expression, no outlet. To his fellow-troopers
he was morose and unapproachable. They did not
understand him and very soon left him alone.
At this stage came the rumor of compassionate
leave. The 1914 men were to be sent home, and with
them a few who, either for business or personal
reasons, could show a good enough excuse. Robin
had immediately written to Myrna, begging her to use
what influence she could in Australia to bring him
home, and to back this with a personal request to him
to get leave if he could. He left it to her to make out
as good a case as possible. That was over six weeks
ago, and already many of the men had left for
Moasca, whence they would embark on a returning
troopship. But still there was no word for him.
It was weeks since he had had any letters from
home, though in the beginning Myrna had written
regularly. The only happy moments in his present
existence were on the days when Nancy’s letters came.
She wrote often, and was always bright and cheering.
Her letters were quite impersonal, giving him news,
talking about books and music, and he accepted what
he believed to be her wish —that there should be no
talk of love between them, no discussion of future
plans. Her letters seemed to assure him that there
had been no change in her feeling for him but that
she did not wish to discuss their relationship at this
time or at this distance. He replied in the same vein,
as cheerfully as he could and gladly, for it allowed
him a little longer to leave a problem unsolved.
BACK in camp Robin found waiting for him a letter
and a cablegram. The letter, from Nancy, he
thrust into his pocket. The cable was from Myrna,
and she had certainly done her best. It read:
“Come home if you possibly can. Over-
drawn at bank. Cyclones destroyed crops.
Sheep dying.”
Robin grinned. This would satisfy Barney. He
rushed around until he found a sergeant, and asked:
“Will you parade me at once to Colonel Case? It’s
urgent —compassionate leave.”
He pushed the cable in front of the man, who read
it with a serious face and handed it back.
“That’s what’s been worrying you, is it?” he said.
“Why didn’t you say so instead of moping about like
a goat with the ’flu? Get your tunic and belt and
come on. There’s one or two going to the railway
to-night. If you’re lucky you can go with them.”
BARNEY CASE held out his hand for the cable.
“You,” he said, “have exceptional reasons for
wanting leave, I understand. I’ve had instructions
about you from headquarters. You can get away
to-night.”
Robin saluted and turned to go, but Barney said:
“Wait a minute,” and to the sergeant: “All right,
you may go. Stewart goes out to-night with the
others. I want to see him for a while.”
When they were alone together Barney read the
cable again and laughed.
“I suppose this is all eye-wash, Vol?”
“Yes,” Robin said, “I think so. In any case, I m
not at all worried with Father there to look after
them.”
“Someone’s been stirring things up properly over
the other side. I’ve been told to send you home at
once, to let nothing delay you. Well, you’ll be off to
Moasca to-night—after that you’re out of my hands.
You’re lucky. I wish I was going.”
“Can’t you?”
“No.”
“Why? Because you’re Colonel Case?”
“Not altogether.”
Barney got up from the camp bed where he had
been sitting and walked restlessly about the tent. He
pulled a chair from behind a small table and thrust it
at Robin.
“Sit down,” he said irritably, “or lie on the bed.
Don’t stand there like a stuffed dummy. We’re not
on parade now.”
He came over and sat on the bed again.
“Don’t mind me, Vol. I’m all on edge. I expect
it’s that wretched business of the horses.”
“Yes,” Robin said, “I think everyone is a bit upset
over it.”
“Did you know that Whalebone was shot to-
day?”
“No. Really I didn’t watch any of it.” After
a while he added “It’s queer. I’m glad Whalebone’s
gone, and it seems to put all the rest of it in a better
light—not nearly so foul. It’s the wholesale look of
it that makes it seem so ghastly and those damned
Bedouins.”
“Yes,” Barney said absently, and suddenly Robin
knew that his thoughts were not on the horses at all.
He wondered what it was that Barney wanted to talk
about, but his next question made Robin wary.
“You know Nan Mcßride pretty well now, don’t
you?”
“Pretty well,” Robin admitted, and knew again
that Barney had not heard his reply.
“She’s a great girl,” he said slowly. “We’ve been
mates ever since we were kids together. Cousins, you
know —we’d have been married only for that.”
Barney stood up and started to pace restlessly
again.
“I never wanted to marry anyone else,” he said,
“and neither did she. Since I’ve been out here I’ve
thought about it a good deal. I’ve thought if we
didn’t have children this cousin business wouldn’t
matter. I don’t know what Nan would say to this
and I hesitated about asking her for one thing, I
didn’t think I’d ever get through alive. When the
show was over I thought about it again, and it
really seemed all cut-and-dried. I knew —I know now
—that Nan would marry me. But still I put off
writing. I’m not much good at it —especially writing
things that matter, that mean anything.” He stood
still, grinning at Robin. “You and Dick Rawdon
used to write all my essays at Macquarie. Do you
remember the one on ‘Empire Builders,’ and how
sarcastic Rocky Stone was about it?”
“Yes,” Robin said. He was suddenly panicky,
believing Barney was about to ask him to write to
Nancy for him. Barney was facing him, leaning his
shoulders against the centre-pole of the tent.
“Partly,” Barney said, “it was because I didn’t
know if it would be fair to Nan, whatever she might
say—about the kids, I mean. What do you think?”
“I really don’t know.” Robin moved restlessly.
“I don’t think any man could know about a thing
like that. I do think that Nancy” He broke off
abruptly, his face hot with annoyance. Barney was
not listening. His look was abstracted, his thoughts
apparently far away. His question had been mean-
ingless.
“Have you ever been in Cairo?” he had asked.
“No,” Robin said shortly. What on earth was
the man driving at!
“I’ve just come back. It’s a filthy hole. I could
have got home leave before I went. I wish I had,
but I wanted to take the regiment back.” He started
pacing about the tent again. “It meant a lot to me,
getting the regiment, and I wanted to take them home
—all that are left of them. The regiment is full
strength, I know, but somehow there seem to be gaps
there still”...
Robin broke in impatiently. “What’s this all
about, Barney? I’ve not much time to get my things
together and hand over my equipment. Is there any-
thing special you wanted to see me about?”
“No —oh, no —just wanted to have a yarn about
old times or something. I think I’ll wait till I get
home to ask Nan.” He held out his hand. “Good-
bye, Vol, and good luck. Give her my love.”
ROBIN opened the letter half reluctantly, thinking
of Barney Case, who was going home to ask
Nancy to marry him.
“Robin, dear, / have resisted all these
long months the temptation of writing as l
wanted to write, not wishing to unsettle you.
To-night I am alone, and not so brave. There
are ghoulies and ghosties all around and about,
uglier and more fiendish than they were at
Yugilla Springs, and no you to hunt them away.
Dear, six months—it is nearly six months since
l saw you —can be a long, long time. I wanted
to tell you that it has shown me this: That life
without you now would be meaningless and
impossible—l would not want it. I wanted to
tell you, too, that I love you, to beg you to
come back soon —to come back to me.”
It was the shortest letter he had received from
Nancy, yet every sentence in it thrilled him, set his
blood leaping with desire and longing. He would
reply at once —cable that he was on the way home ;
that he was coming back to her.
The problem seemed simple enough now. There
was no other solution to it but life with Nancy. He
believed that Myrna would divorce him, and he would
give everything —everything that was left—to her and
the children. But whether she divorced him or not
it would make little difference. He would start life
afresh with Nancy.
For one dreadful moment he had again a sense
of losing the substance for the shadow, of eating
Dead Sea fruit, but he pushed the feeling quickly from
him, persuading himself that he had come through a
period of turmoil and uncertainty to calm purpose
and clear thinking.
Chapter XXIII .
SAND like a brown mist, and a storm-
wind blowing.
“... full of misery. He cometh
up, and is cut down, like a flower ;
he fleeth as it were a shadow.” The words,
as the padre spoke them across the open grave, were
caught up in the hands of the wind and flung away,
as though God Himself was denying the right of
Christian burial to the body in the flag-draped coffin.
Robin, one of the firing party standing beside the
grave, thought “A mad ending—mad and unfair.”
It was, too, a fitting curtain to his own army life,
for to all intents and purposes this was the final act.
To-morrow at dawn he would be leaving Egypt,
embarking for home.
ROBIN had lost count of time waiting on the canal,
but of all the weary weeks these had been the
worst. Ship after ship had come through, packed with
troops from France, rotten with influenza, and the
Egyptian troops were not allowed to board. But at
last a clean transport with room to spare was in the
canal, and to-morrow a batch of “compassionate
leaves,” a motley crew from Moasca camp—infantry,
artillery and Light Horse—would embark at Kantara.
Another month, five weeks perhaps, and he would be
in Australia.
Leaving the regiment he had expected to sail for
home immediately. Since receiving Nancy’s letter,
since replying to it by cable and by letter setting out
his plans for the future, telling her he was coming
home at once, he had fretted more than ever to be
away, though at first without the hopeless depression
which had surrounded him during the time of inaction
in Palestine. But soon he was caught in the backwash
of deferred hope and carried once more towards the
old, engulfing tide of misery and frustration.
When definite news of his embarkation had come
Robin and a few others had walked into Ismalia to
celebrate and to make a few last purchases. They
came back to camp through a howling sandstorm
and were stopped by an infantry sergeant cursing the
wind and very put out over something.
“Is every damn’ man wearing leggings and spurs
out of camp?” he shouted. “I want a Light Horse
burial party. You’ll do,” he said to Robin. “Parade
at once. Bandolier and belt. Rifles and blanks will
be issued on parade.” Noticing the patches on
Robin’s arm, he said “He’s one of your crowd.”
“Who?” Robin asked.
“I don’t know —Casey or something.”
The last expression, combined with the closeness
of the name, sent a cold shiver over Robin.
“Not Colonel Case?” he said.
“That’s it.”
“But how?”
“Blew the top of his head off with an automatic.
Accident, of course! Accident! I suppose in the
dark he mistook the muzzle of his automatic for a
saveloy!”
He passed on, grumbling, to look for more
troopers, and Robin walked slowly back to his tent.
“He was popular?” one of Robin’s companions
asked.
“Very. But more than that to me. We were
at school together.”
“Do you think he shot himself purposely?”
“I wouldn’t have thought so. But I saw him
just before I left the regiment and he was well,
queer; different from his usual self. I see it all now,
really. I didn’t know what he was driving at then,
but now I know. He was frightened of himself and
trying to tell me. Poor old Barney. His luck
deserted him at last.”
THE men were scrambling on to the gun-carriage
for a ride back to camp, laughing and chattering
now that the burial was over, excited at the prospect
of getting away in the morning. Robin was the only
one from Barney’s regiment, and though they had
heard of Barney Case his death meant little to them.
But the memory of it was to haunt Robin through
the monotonous weeks on the water and for many
long days afterwards.


Chapfer XXIV,
SEARCHING eagerly amongst the
faces on the wharf Robin could
discover none that he knew. He
had hoped that Nancy would be
there, though during the week in quaran-
tine he had received no letter from her. He could
understand this now, for until this morning he had
received no letters at all, and had discovered that no
one knew he had arrived, though he had cabled when
about to leave Egypt. He had not been allowed to
send letters from the quarantine camp, so it. was
possible that Nancy was still unaware of his arrival.
Myrna knew, as her letter to him proved, but even
she had had no information until after the troopship
was in the harbor and the men had been transferred
to North Head.
This business of quarantine had upset everything,
and it was utterly ridiculous. Theirs was a clean ship,
nothing infectious aboard,
no single case of influ-
enza. One man had died
of pneumonia soon after
leaving Aden, and this
apparently had been
enough for that port
doctor. If only he
hadn’t kept them wait-
ing so long! If only
they hadn’t pelted his
launch with potatoes! It
seemed great fun at the
time, especially when the
man in the stern of the
launch had stood up to
shout something and had
received a potato squarely
in his wide-open mouth.
The troops roared laugh-
ing as the crew of the
launch fished him out of
the water with a boat-
hook. But there was no
laughter next morning
when they were told that
their transport was
branded as infected with
influenza and that all
men would have to go to
quarantine in their re-
spective States.
Instead, then, of going direct to Melbourne and
thence to Sydney, they must now circumnavigate
Tasmania, drop troops there in quarantine, come to
Melbourne and, finally, Sydney, where the New South
Welshmen would go straight to an isolation camp at
North Head. It meant seven weeks on the water
without leaving the ship, and, finally, seven days in
quarantine. But that was over now.
COMING down the gangway Robin discovered that
there was someone to meet him after all; not
Nancy, but Myrna’s friend Elsie Glasson.
“There’s a reception of some sort,” she told him,
“in the Domain, where you eat buns and drink ginger-
pop. After that you must come home with me, have
lunch and stay until your train goes to-night.”
Robin felt embarrassed. He intended to spend
the day with Nancy. What excuse, he wondered,
could he give to Mrs. Glasson. He could avoid lunch
easily enough, giving as his reason that he had to
report at the barracks to get his discharge ; but the
afternoon and evening! Well, he wotild promise to
go to Elsie Glasson in the afternoon, and before
then he would think up some excuse and telephone
her, putting off the visit.
“I’m sorry,” he said. “I’m afraid I can’t come
to lunch. You see, we have to go to the barracks —
discharge papers and one thing and another. May I
come out this afternoon some time?”
“Of course; whenever you wish. If you get
through at the barracks in time come to lunch. It
doesn’t matter what time you arrive there’ll be
something for you. What about your kitbags? Can
I take them home with me in the car?”
“Thank you,” Robin said, “but I think I’ll leave
them at the railway; they’ll be easier to pick up
to-night.”
Nancy was not at the reception. He was sure
now that she had not known of his arrival. He must
report at the barracks at noon, so he would have
time, if he took a taxi, to run out and see her. He
left Mrs. Glasson as soon as he could, with the excuse
that he wanted to get rid of his kitbags.
AS he came through the gate he saw Mr. Mcßride
sitting on the lawn in the shade of a pepper-tree.
He came over to him quickly, smiling, with ms hand
held out. The old man looked up at the click of the
gate, but he made no effort to rise or to take the
proffered hand. Robin said in surprise “Don’t you
remember me, Mr. Mcßride? I’m Robin Stewart.”
“Yes, I know you.”
Robin hesitated, bewildered.
“Is anyone at home?” he asked at last. “May I
go in?”
“I wouldn’t. There’s no one there ; only an old
w 7 oman who cannot die.”
Robin thought “Good heavens, the man’s worse
than ever.” Aloud he said “Where is Nancy?”
“Nancv was buried a week ago last Thursday.”
“Buried!”
He had a sudden sense of absurdity. He wanted
to laugh. Here was a ridiculous old man trying with
exaggerated histrionics to play a melodramatic part.
The setting, too, was stupidly incongruous—a subur-
ban garden flooded with sunshine, peaceful and happy
seeming. It was the feeling of an instant only. With
the old man’s next words he was sick with horror ;
face to face with hideous reality.
“Her child was stillborn. Were you the father?”
“Yes,” Robin said, and wondered if he had actu-
ally spoken or if it were only his mind making the
admission. “I didn’t know”. . . his voice trailed off
helplessly.
“You didn’t know! Do you mean —but that
would be absurd, of course. You mean, then, that
Nancy never told you?”
“Yes.”
“That would be like her. She tried to shield you
here, too. But I knew.”
The old man’s hands dropped in a hopeless ges-
ture by the sides of his chair.
“No one else knows,” he said, “or ever will know.
Not even her mother —she has been bedridden for
"Why aren't you Taking part in the sports?"
"Aw, they matched me to fight the Bengal tiger."
months now. She knows that Nancy is dead
—that’s all.”
Mcßride had slumped down in the chair,
but now suddenly straightened and looked
directly at Robin.
“What are you waiting for?” he said, but when
Robin turned to go he put out a hand, catching the
sleeve of his tunic.
“Wait,” he said. “I want you to understand that
I do not blame you, either of you. Certainly not
Nancy.”
He lifted his arms above his head. His eyes were
unnaturally bright, wild-looking. “He’s mad,” Robin
thought, “stark mad!”
“War is to blame,” the old man shouted. “War
and the people who make it; the people in high places,
the people who control wealth. They run about snap-
ping like rabid dogs, and so the madness is carried on
until the whole world raves. Murder and Lust walk
hand in hand and are worshipped as gods, and in their
train follow the scavengers Disease and Famine and
Poverty —and their vile work goes on long after war
has passed, when there is nothing left but the horror
of memory.”
His hand dropped and he slumped down as
though utterly exhausted. In a little while he spoke
again, more calmly.
“A few months ago I received a letter from my
brother in England. He told me that we out here
could have no conception of the misery of war —we
were too far away.” He laughed harshly. “To far
away! My nephew shot himself ;my sons were killed
and lie in unknown graves; my daugher”—the old
man’s voice faltered —“my daughter is dead because
of you— you, a product of war, a hero to her, a hero to
the people! I cannot have many more years to re-
member, but you are a young man. No, I don’t wish
you any misfortune: I’m very, very sorry for you.
Now go. Your secret is safe with me.”
TJE last medical inspection! With his tunic in his
hand Robin stepped up to the examining doctor.
It seemed that he had been waiting here for hours.
Waiting with a mind numb and incapable of thought.
But if his mind had been shocked beyond complete
comprehension, physically he was broken. The doctor
dropped the mouthpiece of his stethoscope impatiently.
“Fellows like you are a damn’ nuisance,” he
said. “Go over there and sit down or lie down for
a while —anyhow, rest; don’t move about.”
Beside the wall there was a wooden bench on
which a man in infantry uniform was lying. He
greeted Robin with a wave of an enormous hand.
“Hullo, mate!” he said. “Did he tell you to lie
down, too? They’re a bit shy of beds in this ward,
and this one’s narrow for two.”
“It’s all right,” Robin said. “I’ll sit on the end.
I don’t want to lie down.”
“What’s the big idea?”
The man sat up, and when Robin did not reply
he shook him by the shoulder.
“Hey! Wake up! I said What’s the big idea?”
“What idea?” Robin asked listlessly.
“That’s what I said. What idea? I’m not crook,
and I haven’t had a drink, and I want to get away ;
and he says ‘Go over there and lie down. I'll see about
you later.’ Well, what’s the big idea?”
“I don’t know.”
“Are you crook?”
“No.”
The infantryman sat for a long while with wrinkled
forehead, evidently trying to puzzle the matter out.
Finally he gave it up and turned to Robin.
“My cobber’s waiting outside till I’m through,”
he said. “He’ll be a bit fed up. He got his discharge
a few weeks ago. Reckoned it didn’t take long. But
I’ve been here for hours.” He shook his head. “I
don’t know what the game is. When
a man’s clear of this there’s a lot of
other things to do —money, a returned
badge, a civvy suit. Do you know
about the civvies?”
“Yes.” Robin was answering
questions mechanically, hardly know-
ing what he was saying or what was
said. The man looked a little hurt.
He was trying to be friendly and was
not receiving much encouragement,
and to-day of all days was nbt a time
to be stand-offish.
“Well, if you
know,” he said,
“it’s all right. My
cobber put me
wise. They don’t
give you much
time to pick and
choose, he reck-
oned. The bloke
behind the coun-
ter was a bit short
when he went
through. Held up
the outfit —pants
and coat and cap
—and says ‘Come
on, you;; this isn’t
a fashion store.
Which is it? Thirty
bob or a civvy suit?’
My cobber takes
one look at the duds
and he says ‘l’ll pay
the bloomin’ fine! ’ ”
THE doctor called
Robin over.
“That’s better,” he
said at last. “I suppose
you fellows are not to be blamed at getting a bit
excited at going home. Light Horse, eh? Where do
you live? Country, I suppose. Well, don’t get too
drunk and miss the train. You’ll do —but I’m not so
sure of our friend over there.”
Chapter XXV.
ROBIN stood alone on the small plat-
form of Malwa siding, waiting for
the car that would take him first to
his father’s house and then on to
Lammas ; to his wife and children.
He could see the train, which had brought him so
far on his journey home, crawling like a brown worm
through the Malwa paddocks. Just now it was passing
through stubble land —Schreiber’s old farm, the roof
of the cottage gleaming bright in the morning sun.
He turned impatiently from the railway line to the
main road. This, too, divided the Malwa paddocks,
running away into the limitless west, brown and
narrow as a bridle rein between green fields ; past
Bald Head and Malwa homestead, past Burnt Plains,
past Croy, where it left the steel rails of progress and
went on alone —past Lammas.
There was a cloud of dust on the road. The
Malwa car, coming fast. In a few minutes it would
be here. In an hour perhaps he would be home. The
end of the journey. The end... But the road ran
on past Lammas —the end, or a new beginning...
In his tunic pocket was Myrna’s letter, and a note,
proudly pencilled, from Margaret. These he thought
of now. His hand, moving unconsciously, crushed the
paper into a hard ball. Remembered sentences bit
into his tortured brain.
“Do not stay at Malwa... Come quickly ...
We are all longing to see you.” This from Myrna.
And Margaret: “There will be chicken and fruit
salad and bonbons like Christmas-time, and Chinese
lanterns with candles all around the verandah, and
flags on the gate, and Martin put a long pole in the
garden with a big flag” ...
Welcome for a hero. Love —and gaiety—ana a
feast —and flags.
[The End.]


First of an Exceedingly Fine Batch of Yarns:-
SHOOTING
STAR
BY
HENRY G. LAMOND.
BLUE BILL’S spirit left his battered body and
commenced its long climb up the golden stairs
leading to the pearly gates.
Aching in every joint, with the balls of his feet
snapping with the intensity of tfie pain, Billy sat on
the edge of the platform at the head of the stairs
and looked back to the earth he had left. He felt
in where his hip pockets should have been for the
makings, intending to roll himself a smoke. He
cursed softly at his disappointment* rose to his feet
and, with his spurs trailing, he rapped loudly on the
knocker of the gate.
There was nothing timorous or diffident about
Bluey’s knock: he knew he was a man among men,
a fellow who had always played the game, and that
he had the right to enter. There were certain things
which he had left undone which should have been
done. Bluey reflected upon a few of them while
waiting an answer to his summons, but, as he added
mentally, “I never thought I was cornin’ so soon. I
didn’t think little Destiny was goin’ to put her foot
in that hole when I was runnin’ them brumbies
through th’ gidya.”
Billy’s meditations were cut short by the opening
of the gate and an aged voice asking querulously,
“Who’s there?”
Bill hitched his pants, squared his shoulders,
cleared his throat and announced firmly, “It’s me,
Blue Bill, from th’ Georgina country. I don’t suppose
you gets many from that part of western Queens-
land, an’ ”
“I beg your pardon, Bill,” the voice declared,
and, opening the gates, St. Peter advanced with hand
outstretched, “I didn’t recognise you at first, though we
had word of your coming. What with old age and
failing eyesight and one thing and another I’m not
the man I used to be. We’d
heard you’d chucked the
seven, Bill, and we were glad
of it. We have urgent need
of a man of your type. Walk
straight in, Bill. Go right up
the middle of. the road.
There’s a job waiting for you.
Er —by the way —I don’t sup-
pose you ask a place in the
choir, Bill?”
“I’m willin’ to fit in,” Bill
replied obligingly. “I used to
be able to whistle a gum-leaf
once, and there’s fellows says
when I’ve a few in I’m hot
stuff on th’ flute. I’ll fit in
anywhere. Don’t make no
special place for me. If it’s
all th’ same to you, though,
I’d sooner take a job outside.
Have you got any horses up
here?”
“Come with me, Bill.
You’re a man after my own
heart. Between you and me,
that orchestral stuff is getting
overdone. It’s more men we
want. Give me your hand,
Bill. Hep! Watch your step,
man. If you get looking back
over your shoulder, Bill, you’ll
trip in strange places.
“Who was that angel just
flew by? I didn’t get a good
glimpse of her, Bill—my eyes
aren’t all that they used to be.
By the smell of the scent,
though, I’d say it was Mrs.
Potiphar. Keep your eyes
straight ahead, Bill. Here we
are! What do you think of
those stables? There’s Car-
bine, Phar Lap, Pardon the
son of Reprieve, and all the
great and good horses in his-
tory. Take your pick, Bill.”
“About that cheque, sir; We'll need some means of
identification."
“Well, there’s a scar on me hip where Murphy’s bull
got me.”
“An’ here’s little Destiny!” Bill exclaimed, throw-
ing his arms about his mare’s neck. “Here’s th’ best
thing ever was in bad timber or rough country. Here
she is, eatin’ out of a golden crib, waitin’ for me.
This is my mount. There’s no job too big for me an’
this mare. Got th’ makin’s on you? Thanks. Tell
your tale, Pete, while I roll an’ smoke one.”
< i j WOULDN'T have this get about, Bill,” the Saint
' commenced sadly, seating himself on a golden
stone and combing his whiskers with his thin fingers.
“I know I can trust you, though. There’s trouble in
the heavens, Bill. A few years ago the first of the
leading movie actors came here. I think they used to
call him The Great Lover’ when he was down be-
low. We’d had trouble with tenors previously, Bill,
to say nothing of other odds and ends. But we
weren't up to the technique of movie actors.
“This fellow declared he was a Star and wanted
stellar treatment. He claimed the spotlight all the
time, and wanted the centre of the stage. We decided
to discipline him.
“We turned that Star out for a spell. And what
does he do, Bill, but develop into a Shooting Star
himself! Added to that, the fellow is developing a
brumby mob of his own. Our information bureau
isn’t all that it should be, and we can’t say positively.
We know, though, the Star has a following, and we
also know of suspicious leakages of susceptible angels
from our numbers.
“We tried to get him to return. The impudent
dog refused. He claimed the right to dictate terms
to us, Bill! The position now is we can’t get him
back ; we can’t get rid of him—we’re in a quandary!”
“Send him to hell,” Bill suggested.
“Nick won’t take hirn,” Peter replied dolefully.
“We offered him free of all encumbrances. He was
refused'. We offered to sling in a couple of members
of Parliament and a pound of tea. They wouldn’t
even have him then. What are we to do, Bill?”
“Run him in,” Bill replied promptly. “If me
an’ Destiny can’t wheel that cove we’ve slipped.”
“I was hoping you’d suggest that, Bill. You can
take your pick of
the horses here
and the best stock-
men we have on
hand. Let’s see,
speaking from
memory, we could
let you have Jim
Neville, Jack
Sullivan, Jack
Hall”-
“What about
Ralph Brierty,
Bob Ledgerwood,
Tom Griffiths,
Arthur Campbell,
Byron Nathan?”
“I don’t know
if they’re on the
roll yet, Bill. If
they’re here you
can have them.
Take whom you
like and what you
like—only yard
that Shooting Star.
We want him back
here again. We’ll
discipline him!
We’re more used
to handling his
sort now. Do
what you like,
Bill.”
“I’ll want a
mob of coachers,
too, Pete.”
“Coachers,
Bill?”
“Y e s. I
want a mob
of quiet old
she-angels to
drive with me.
We’ll run
them brumbies into th’ coachers. That steadies ’em.
. Them coachers will bring th’ brumbies home to th’
vards easier. I’ll want them.”
“H’m-m, Bill: let’s think a bit. Knowing the
earthly reputation of Shooting Stars, I think you’d
better take Jezebel, the Pompadour, Mary of Scot-
land, Nell Gwynne, Catherine of Russia, Lola
Montez, Cora Pearl, Lady Hamihon —and I’ll dig you
up a few more before to-morrow morning. I’ll get
you coachers, as you call them.”
“An’ how about that other one—that Missus
Potiphar one? I think I’ll take her, too. I’ll want a
mob of about twenty, Pete, an' don't forget that
Missus Potiphar—she’s th’ best coacher I seen here
yet.”
A S the sun was rising next morning Bill took his
team of musterers and his mob of coachers to
comb the heavens in search of the brumby star. The
old stockmen, glad to be back at their own jobs, rode
loosely with their whips coiled on their arms, their
haloes hitched tight with chin-straps, their wing-tips
tucked securely in their belts. The coachers floated
lazily in front, casting an occasional eye back to the
men who rode behind them, and giggling girlishly
as some little joke was whispered from one to the
other.
“Jack,” Bill said authoritatively. “You better
take th’ outside, bein’ here longest an’ knowin’ th’
country best. You’d better slip round by Jupiter,
take a bit of a lead towards Epsilon, work over by
Beta Centauri, have a look round Mars, an’ we’ll
meet near Venus for dinner. Jim’s goin’ next to you.
If you see anythin’ what looks like them brumby
mob pass ’em in to your next man. I’ll be inside th’
lot of you, drivin’ th’ coachers, an’ by th’ time they
come to me we’ll have ’em winded so th’ coachers
can hold ’em.”
The men met at the dinner-camp. Each had the
same report: “Seen nothin’ what looks like Shootin’
Star.”
They were sitting in the shadow of Venus, boil-
ing their quarts, with their horses standing head-and-
tail, swishing flies, and with the coachers floating about
lazily, when there was a blur of light, a flash, a smell
of something burning, and Shooting Star was among
the coachers. With a squeal and a yell he reared as
he swung and cut off one wing, and, in the next flash
of a second, he was gone with three of the coachers
with him!
Bill sprang to his feet. In one bound he was on
Destiny’s back. Jambing his halo tighter, he called as
he disappeared from sight: “Take them coachers
back home. I’ll wheel Shootin’ Star.”
A COUPLE of million miles on Shooting Star halted
for a space to complete his conquest of the three
new members of his mob. He advanced to Mrs.
Potiphar arching his neck and raking up the ground,
and tentatively he had extended his nostrils to hers
when Bill burst upon them.
As fast as stabbing light Bluey drove Destiny
into the mob, swinging his whip. With a crash of
reverberating thunder the thong fell on Shooting Star’s
flank, drawing ribbons of light and spurts of flame,
and, cutting him out from the mob, Bill rode desper-
ately to wheel him after the coachers, which were
scampering back home, followed by the rest of Star’s
mob.
Shooting Star doubled in on himself and drove
ahead recklessly. As the thunder broke on him again,
laying open pulsating rainbows along his ribs, he got
down to it in desperate energy and raced for his life
and freedom.
Bill lay Destiny up on that brumby angel, striv-
ing to turn him. The other fellow had too much
weight for her, too much guile, too great a local
knowledge, and, be it mare or maiden, he was too
accomplished in the feminine arts to be turned by
any female. He shot straight ahead and took the
Milky Way with a scatter of satellites and a shower
of sparks.
In that close country Bill did not have a chance
to swing his whip. He had the toe of the other fellow,
though: he lay up beside him and belabored his ribs
with the steel-sprung handle of the whip.
Shooting Star was squibbing under the punish-
ment. He lopped his ears and showed the whites of
his eyes as, in a dull and sullen temper, he drove
ahead, brushing smaller stars aside, smashing through
clusters and churning the stuff through which he
raced. A new hope came to him as the stars thinned
slightly, and the expanse of the Coal Sack showed
ahead.
o Continued on page 30.)


ALL ABOUT A HAT.


Shooting Star drove straight at it with no dimi-
nution of speed ; he rose a shade and soared across
with all the ease of a flying rocket. Destiny pricked
her ears when the dark horror showed before her.
She shortened her stride a little, drew herself to-
gether, and, with a bound which creaked her muscles,
she cleared it, scrambling on the far bank as she
fought for her footing. Shooting Star took full
advantage of the momentary check. He shot from
sight and was lost.
Bill pulled his mare together and raced forward
confidently. He could track Shooting Star by the
clots of cream and butter-milk splashed on near stars.
Shooting Star shot out of the Milky Way on the
other side, but a bare hundred thousand miles to the
good. And no sooner had he entered the expanse
than a remorseless figure, relentless as fate itself,
swept aside a curtain of stars and came after him!
All that long afternoon Destiny ran Shooting
Star. Once he had him turned on the Pleiades when
a blind and blundering dead star checked him for a
moment, giving Star a fresh lease of life and a new
hope. The sun was not more than a couple of hours
high when Bill finally wheeled him on the wings of
hell, came in on him and shouldered him over.
Shooting Star stood, the sweat dripping from
him, his flanks heaving, his tail hanging limp and
dejected. His ears were listless and the fire had gone
from his eyes, showing only fear, when Bill dis-
mounted from his mare, leaving the reins trailing, and
advanced to the thing which crouched in terror from
him.
""P HAT evening, when the sun was casting mile-long
* shadows, there was trouble in heaven. The
cherubim were flying in long strings through the air,
going to their perching trees, twittering and squab-
bling prettily as they nestled together. A line of
dryades were trailing across the flat, going to their
yards for the night. Odd satyrs were loafing about.
And St. Peter in his trouble was mumbling to
himself: “I wonder what’s happened to Bill. I
rather liked that fellow. I
thought he’d help us at the
job I gave him. He ought
to be back by this —all them
other musterers, the coachers
and most of Shooting
Star's mob checked in an
hour ago. If Bluey’s taken
up with Shooting Star there’s
going to be trouble. I’ll give
him another half-hour before
I lock the gates. I don’t want
to be too hard on a new-
comer, but those bushmen
have got to learn discipline
when they come here!”
While Peter was com-
plaining to himself, shading
his old eyes and looking
down the road that led to
the gates, there came a
sudden clap as of thunder.
Cherubim, with an odd
seraph or two mixed with
them, rose in protesting
clouds from the trees on
which they had settled, twit-
tering noisily; the dryades,
which were nibbling at short
picking before going to their
pens, bounded forward in
their fear and ran into the
yards ; a mob of angels of
varying shapes ran from their
front doors, leaving the pre-
paration of the evening meal
to take care of itself as,
strangely and weirdly garbed,
they came to see the cause
of the noise.
A ribbon of dust was
rising along the main road
leading to the gates. As the head of that ribbon came
closer it could be seen that it was a mounted man
with a spare horse running behind. And, closer still,
the man’s arm could be seen to rise, the whip fly out,
and again that thunder rocked the air.
That mounted figure swept up the main road,
past the post-office, between the police-station and
the butcher’s shop, and threw a loop round the race-
course and school. It jumped a couple of goatyards,
sending the dryades scuttling in fear, and with a
flourish, a spatter of pebbles and a gust of dust it
pulled up in front of the pub.
It was Bill. His halo was tilted well back, held
by a chin-strap ; his wings were draggled, torn and
bespattered with clots of butter; he lit his pipe from
a lightning flash, and he rocked the air again with
his whip.
And submissive, cowed, dejected, ridden to a
finish and tame, carrying the man who had wheeled
him across the heavens, was Shooting Star.
An Animal Story That Is Different:—
BEYOVD
THE
VEIL
BY
E.MARY GURNEY
AS though conscious of the slight that had been
put upon her in mating her with an ass, the old
thoroughbred mare that Van Thorn had picked
up at the sale of a bankrupt circus took one look at
her misshapen offspring and died.
Purchased mainly out of pity, she was no loss,
except as a mother, and Van .Thorn’s first instinct
was to knock the foal on the’head, since it would
obviously be chance-got, and more nuisance to rear
than it would be worth.
But, in spite of its dam’s debility, and the more-
than-probable debility of its sire, it was a sturdy little
atom, born, so to speak, on its feet. Propped on
gangling, uncertain legs, it surveyed the world from
large, trusting, bluish-grey eyes, and sucked hopefully
at the finger the man offered it.
Because he loved dumb things, it needed only
the confiding touch of its baby lips to dispel the man’s
instinctive desire to. be quit of the worry consequent
"I'll never invite HIM again! All he said all night
Was ‘Just another mouthful, ol' feller!'"
on bottle-feeding.
The ungainly colt’s
lips were soft past
dreaming, its
scarcely-dry coat
like satin to the
touch.
When he took
his hand away the
little beast made
tiny, funny noises,
and staggered after
him, nosing his
trouser - legs, tug-
ging hopefully at
the frayed hem of
his jacket.
“Hell!” said
Van Thorn.
“You’re a cute
little beggar!”
And, picking
the foal up bodily, he carried it from the side of
its dead dam.
Without premeditation, he christened it Tom Mix,
and grew to regard it with a mixture of admiration
and incredulity; for even to him, prejudiced as he
was by pride of possession, it was abnormally ugly,
scraggy-tailed and lop-eared ; but a whole fortnight
elapsed before the horrible truth dawned on Van
Thorn.
Then he sat down on an upturned tin and laughed
until he was sick. Tom Mix stood in front of him
and regarded him with a comical mixture of mis-
chief and sorrowful reproach.
His eyes, like his coat, were by then darkening
to brown and losing that confiding baby look that
had saved him from the axe. Already they were
growing almost ludicrously shrewd —developing that
aloof, mystic look that is the heritage of horses. Also,
he had taken to turning up the whites of his eyes,
which gave him a leering and, at times, incredibly
evil look. And already he was addicted to sly nipping,
to little, furtive, semi-playful, semi-spiteful kicks.
Van Thom, who re-
garded him with almost
paternal indulgence, was
not as yet resentful, but
was learning to keep a
wary eye on his vagaries.
] T was Tom Mix himself
1 who ended Van Thorn's
ribald acceptance of his
discovery, rearing up on
his hind legs and striking
with a deliberateness of
purpose that might have
been either malice or mis-
chief, or a compound of
both.
His tiny hooves
caught the man’s shoulder
a shrewd blow that
knocked him off his seat.
By the time, half-wrathful,
half-amused, he had
gained his feet, the foal was away across the paddock,
gambolling with an extravagance that brought an
unwilling smile back to Van Thorn’s lips.
After all, he thought, ruefully rubbing his
shoulder, you couldn’t judge a mule by ordinary
standards. It was a crime against Nature, a freakish,
man-connived abortion, conceived in ignominy and
born to a life of dishonor and unwarranted abuse.
So Tom Mix, generously bottle-fed, grew alike in
stature and shrewd malice. Not that he was w'ilhout
affection or gratitude, but it was as though he had
been born with a devil that made it impossible for
him to forget for a moment that he was a mule.
In more ways than one he was a problem, for,
from birth upward, he was a bundle of destructive,
misspent energy. No door or gate was sufficient
against his ingenuity. No gap in hedge or fence too
small for him to find a way through ; and where he
went disaster followed.
He killed fowls and ate cabbages with equal
gusto. He upset bins and water-butts, and danced on
lawns and chewed linen with a prodigality of purpose
that was as amazing as it was exasperating. Yet, with
it all, his was a singularly engaging, not to say
intriguing, personality.
When he had been bad —and he knew he was
bad —sometimes he would be wholly unrepentant, at
others ludicrously contrite, offering himself up to
punishment with a dog’s meekness and singleness of
purpose.
The horses on the farm he treated disgracefully,
harrying them with the viciousness of, a mosquito,
but it was some time before it occurred to Van Thorn
that their avoidance of him was disproportionate.
When, light as thistledown and as heartless, he gam-
bolled in their pastures, they watched him with a
nervous interest that was as intense as it was unnatural.
Q* OMETIMES at dusk Van Thorn would go out
to the fields to smoke and watch the day die,
latterly to watch Tom Mix at his extravagant games,
flying round the paddock, flirting with shadows.
He was, maybe, some six months old before it
dawned on the man that the little brown mule flirted
with more than shadows.
The races he ran were not all with himself. When
he curveted, kicking and sheering away, it was not
from shadows only or from creatures of his imagining.
Ghosts raced with him in the dusk.
Sometimes he would pause, arching his neck as
strange horses will when they meet ; and, watching
him, Van Thorn remembered that it had always been
so. He was a strange thing, a fey thing, owing to
mankind a debt of everlasting hatred for the manner
of his begetting.
Watching the little beast’s antics gave the man
a queer, uncanny feeling that lifted the hair on his
nape as the dogs’ hackles went up when Tom Mix
went near them. They avoided him when they could,
but, cornered, threatened him with bared teeth and
lifted, bristling hackles. Subconsciously, the man had
noted that that, too, dated from the foal’s beginning.
It grew to be a habit with Van Thorn, that going
out at dusk to watch the little mule flirting with his
unseen comrades.
The hacks, heads lowered and prick-eared, would
watch him, eyes wide, nostrils flaring nervously, scat-
tering at his approach, their gait stiff-legged, their
snorts less of play than of fear.
When the moon was full so that the shadows of
the trees were flung out in dark rifts and blotches on
the grass, the chained dogs howled dolorously, and it
seemed to Van Thorn that the very birds were uneasy
in their sleep. But through it all Tom Mix, growing
from ugly, bull-headed babyhood, through gangling
adolescence, to a queer, stocky adult grace that was
all his own, played his brave, solitary part, uncon-
sciously but intensely individual. Yet from foalhood
upward, in spite of his malice prepense, he was
curiously tractable and teachable.
FOLLOWING the method he invariably used in
breaking horses, Van Thom handled the little muie
from the beginning, accustoming him to brush, bit
and saddle, teaching him to lift his feet and to move
over at a word of command.
Tom Mix, rolling his shrewd eye, learned all his
lessons at their inception, but neither unending
patience nor judicious punishment could break him
of the habit of nipping and kicking— not viciously, but
painfully.
He seemed able to judge to a fraction of an inch
how hard he could kick or bite without doing any


mm m
mi
mi
m
mm
m
iS>M<
m
55S
mt
m
mi
Bii as
J
I i
★
I
%
$
3
for this Xmas-and for the many years to come
f . Si s S SI X
ac/ur
Make this the most thrilling Christmas of a lifetime
with a REAL .gift to your family a Stromberg-
Carlson Radio.
Since 1894 Stromberg-Carlson have pioneered many
vital refinements in telephone and radio technique
. . . providing the public at moderate cost with
the advantages of each new advancement as quickly
as it has been perfected. Thus, with an enviable
background of knowledge in the science of radio,
Stromberg-Carlson have always been far ahead in
design ... in craftsmanship ... in actual value
for money. To-day, in a newly-built factory with
every modern facility, a complete range of 16
Radio Receivers is produced, each model being the
best performer available in its class—with one model
priced at 14 guineas . . . the lowest-priced
Stromberg-Carlson for years.
a® ®a
MODEL 888 (illustrated above) is typical of the
Stromberg-Carlson range. It is an 8-valve Dual-
wave Battery-operated Superheterodyne, covering
5 short-wave channels (16-51 metres). The
efficient, highly-developed circuit ensures excellent
reception in any district, but despite its tremendous
power is very economical in operation. (The A
Battery—2-volt—consumption is .58 amperes, and
B Battery consumption at room volume—whether on
Australian or Overseas Stations—is 13-14 milli-
amperes.) The Volume Control is automatic—it
adjusts even the strongest of signals automatically
to your desires. A special three-way battery switch
is provided, enabling dial light to be switched off
after tuning, resulting in more economical operation.
Model 888 is housed in a magnificent Console Grand
Cabinet.
Price - - - 45 Guineas
MODELS FROM 14 GUINEAS
Authorised Dealers throughout the Commonwealth
THERE IS NOTHING FINER THAN A STROMBERG-CARLSON


He WORLD'S GREATEST BRIDGE
gJ2uo.
• Ar
>v
pft§§§pg|jp
88?
n
V
to
m
err
xs
$
■ . I
m
y
r%> «W
*
4s
G t*XD
sisf
KW**
/i?
&
* /*
r
r^v
$
-»aT
JS
at:
OS
as
&2S
1.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS usiaiLTD
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


real damage. He possessed, or so it seemed to the
man, a deliberate and perverted sense of humor. Twice
before he was a year old he caught Van Thorn bend-
ing, and once he kicked and once he bit, and both
times he laughed.
At two years old he was a solid, chunkily elegant
little brute, satin-brown, with a black stripe running
from his wither to the base of his jet-black rat tail.
He was a devil on four legs. Van Thorn’s dogs he
tolerated, but woebetide any chance cur that happened
in his path. Death was in his hooves, not only for
them, but for all things feathered or possessed of
wool or horns. The house cow he recognised as a
possession, Van Thorn’s pet lambs were also sacred,
and when he grew to working strength and went about
the farm he developed a curious sense of property; but
in his early years he was a problem that almost turned
Van Thorn’s hair grey.
Strange things he would not tolerate, be they
human or beast. Until Van Thorn hit upon the
expedient of putting up warning notices, he lived in
daily dread of returning home to find a mangled
corpse in the mule’s domain, for there was the con-
stant nightmare menace of inquisitive people invading
Tom Mix’s paddock for a closer inspection of any-
thing so unusual as a mule.
Twice indignant strangers produced evidence of
narrow escapes from sudden, violent death.
Twice Tom Mix escaped on to the road, once
ditching a car and once stampeding a herd of inoffen-
sive dairy cows. And once, by dint of burrowing
through thick-set hedges, he got among the pedigree
ewes.
That was the time Van Thorn decided to shoot
him, but in the night Tom Mix broke through the
garden gate and called under his window, and for a
day and a night Van Thorn fought a grim fight against
the inexplicable attack of colic that had the mule in
its grip.
TOM was rising four when a series of minor earth-
quakes, culminating in two nasty jerks, shook the
district, bringing down rocks, slips, chimneys and
bridges and making things generally unpleasant with-
out providing any real excitement.
It was the height of the lamb-
ing season, and Van Thorn was
far too preoccupied to pay any
particular attention to the mule’s
id i o syncrasies, to
which, in any case,
through familiarity,
he was growing in-
different.
Tom, at the
moment, was lead-
ing an idle life,
being too unreliable
for hacking at the
peak period, so the
devil kept an eye on
him, and he got into
sundry mischief
until Van Thorn’s
mare wrenched her-
self in a bog and he
had to have another
hack in a hurry.
The mule, in one of his
most perverse moods, re-
sented first the bit, then the
saddle and finally the man.
He kicked and bit like a
fury, so that when Van
Thorn ultimately succeeded
in mounting, he was bruised
in several places, and in as
evil a mood as Tom Mix
himself, using spurs and whip
with more justice than mercy.
Surprisingly, Tom took; what was coming to him,
and behaved throughout the day with a contrite meek-
ness that was utterly disarming. Once again, overcome
with secret pride, Van Thorn forgave him.
When in the dusk they returned to the homestead
there was a message necessitating a three-mile trip
through the hills.
There had been two or three unpleasant shakes
during the day, and the prospect of a long ride through
the night was anything but alluring. However, there
was nothing for it, and Van Thorn set off riding the
reluctant mule.
Tom, in much better case to do the extra journey
than was the man, who had been working from day-
light, elected to behave like a pig. On the way home
the weary Van Thorn would most cheerfully have
given him a bullet. When they reached the small
bridge that spanned a deep, narrow ravine Tom finally
dug his toes in and refused to go at all.
T' HE road that led up to the bridge wound along
1 the top of a ridge, and was solid, but on the far
side the approach was built up over a distance and
dropped sheerly on each side to the ravine. Van
Thorn, weary to the bone, cursed his mount high and
low, and dismounted, for bitter experience had proved
the futility of argument. Once Tom Mix dug his toes
in, the only thing that would move him was dynamite.
Controlling his temper with an effort that was
praiseworthy, Van Thorn lifted the reins over Tom’s
head with the intention of leading the mule across,
but Tom promptly swung between him and the bridge
and deliberately began to haze him away from it.
Before he could do more than jerk on the mule’s
mouth the whole world began to heave and jerk and
twist in a devil’s dance of torment. Van Thorn was
flung down, and even Tom went to his knees.
Then, with a passing shudder, the shake was over,
leaving the world drenched in the murky red light of
the new-risen moon.
From the ravine a slow dust rose in ugly little
spirals, and from its depths echoed back the rattle
of still-falling stones. All that remained of the bridge
was a few twisted planks nailed to a broken pile. The
rest of it and most of the opposite approach were down
in the ravine.
Van Thorn put up a none-too-steady hand and
touched the mule’s face. Promptly, with more than
ordinary spite, Tom bit him, but Van Thorn was
hardly conscious of the twist of the brute’s teeth on
his arm. There was a horror on the world, a sense
of death in dreadful guise, walking the hills unseen.
The stars had a glazed, unreal look, like sunken dead
eyes in the hazy dome of the sky. The moon leaned
down grinning hatefully, its face pock-marked as
though with some hideous disease. Even the air had
died, and lay like a mighty pall of silence drawn down
over the world.
A wave of nausea swept over Van Thorn, leaving
him weak and spent, and Tom Mix pawed the earth
and brayed with a Machiavellian laughter that pro-
faned the ghostly silence.
THERE was about Van Thorn nothing timorous
or imaginative, but, with the death of the echoes
of Tom’s eldritch laughter, fear took him by the
throat, the ghastly, soul-shaking fear that belonged
to primitive man caught in the solitary night.
Breathless, shuddering, he waited, but never a
sound came back from the dead heart of the world.
Tox Mix pawed with sudden impatience, nosing the
man’s arm, and Van Thorn caught the bridle as a
child might cling in strange darkness to a known hand.
“Er—by the way , Miss Prudence, shall We be seeing you at choir practice
this evening ?”
To reach home now they would have to go
many miles round, for the ravine ran north and south,
steep and sheer, without a break.
Trembling still with the dark, primitive horror
that had seized him, Van Thorn mounted.
Tom Mix stood tractably enough, but, turned
once again from home, all his accustomed perversity
descended upon him sevenfold, and he gave Van
Thorn the devil’s ride, digging his toes in every
hundred yards and refusing to budge until the spirit
moved him.
For the second time that night Van Thorn dis-
mounted. In him anger warred with the thought
that in all probability the mule had saved him from
certain death. And mingling with his anger and his
gratitude was that primitive fear, not only of the
night, but of that uncanny, intangible something that
set Tom Mix apart from all living things.
The powers of darkness were leagued in him. Ha
was a constant and fearful reminder of the eternal, the
unknown.
Van Thorn turned the mule loose, and began to
walk back up the road.' Abandoned, docility descended
on the mule, and he followed at the man’s heels,
reproachful and dependent, and braying at intervals
so that the echo trembled back, dying flatly against
the stark, uneasy earth. Presently he trotted ahead,
and once again attempted to turn the man back.
Van Thorn, his temper frayed with his fear, struck
the brute savagely, and Tom Mix reared above him,
immense and terrible in the bloody light; pivoted
on his heels, kicked, squealed and fled back down the
road, his shod hooves seeming to make no sound
on the ironstone flint of its surface.
But when he was long gone from sight the world
was rent again and again with the faint and ever-
fainter echoes of his hideous, eerie braying. When
it finally died out the old fear descended on Van
Thorn.
The world on which he stood ceased on a sudden
to be finite. It lost dimension and solidity, conse-
quence or purpose, and became a thing of insig-
nificance —a speck smaller than dust, hurtling from
no known beginning, through the infinite, towards
no known ending.
The moon thrust its mottled face down closer,
grinning with dreadful malice. The stars shrank back,
dead worlds in a dead sky. In all of space, in all
eternity, he alone was. He alone had conscious
thought and a spirit that could not die.
Abject terror took Van Thorn. Within him
his spirit cried aloud on unknown gods, but no sound
passed his lips. Blindly he turned and began to run.
FENCES halted him, but he scrambled through and
went on, up the hills and down the hills, with
bursting lungs and beating heart threatening to break
against his ribs. In the hot valleys were a darkness
and a silence. On the hillcrests the murky light lay
still as death. Over them his shadow, immense and
grotesque as some fire-born beast that was conceived
with the world, went before him, seeming to mock
the futility of all flight.
Outraged nature checked him on the rim of the
ravine, far below the road and the broken bridge.
Spent, exhausted, he went down the sheer side;
climbed doggedly from its menacing depths back to
the sullen light of the midnight world. Memory stirred
in him, and he thought of Tom Mix, wondering
vaguely what had become of the ill-starred brute,
what devil’s world had fastened on him now.
Into his overwrought mind flashed a picture of
the mule, overtaken by the bloodlust and killing, kill-
ing. Not sheep or dogs, but humans. Through the
silence, it seemed to him that he caught a faint echo
of the hideous, braying laughter. Incontinently he
began to run again.
That mental vision of the mule
slaughtering men had repeopled the
world, so that the awful sense of soli-
tude was in a measure dispelled; but
sight of the homestead where he lived
brought it back with redoubled intensity.
In the murky light the old place
sprawled with the impression of the body
of a thing that has died a violent death.
It was a husk, an empty
shell, yet the haunt of evil
memories. The chimneys
were down, the windows
shattered so that the un-
quiet spirits of the night
might enter in.
Van Thorn
stopped with his
hands on the
gate and shiv-
er e d with a
dread against
which reason
had no power.
Out in the
empty desolation of
the hills home had
seemed a haven of
strange, incalculable
peace.
A sudden wave
of sick longing went
over Van Thorn;
for warmth, for
light, for living
things. He thought of Tom
Mix, and the mule no longer
seemed evil but a thing of
life and loveliness, of cap-
rices and a wisdom beyond
the wisdom of men. His 1
malice was a splendid thing, rich
with unpremeditated humor.
\ /AN THORN pushed the gate
* open and went down the drive,
past the staring house, towards the
dark blotch of the stable. The horses were out to pas-
ture, but the buildings held their homely smell, were
instinct with their warmth and abundant life. Stand-
ing in the open door of a loosebox, he thought with
gratitude that horses were sane and splendid things,
giving much, asking little, yet faithful unto death.
Within the box was movement—a sudden deep
sighing followed by a harsh whinnying that was like
low laughter. Tom Mix, waking from deep and
easy slumber.
Van Thorn heard him scrambling to his feet,
vigorously shaking straw from his ears. Mechani-
cally the man found and lit the storm-lantern that
hung above the manger. Feverishly he closed the door.
In the dim light the mule blinked sleepy, red-
rimmed eyes, and yawned prodigiously ; snorted and
blew expectantly in the empty manger.
The comfortable smell of the horses, the warm,
sane life of the mule did much to dispel the man’s
stark terror. Four walls were about him again, shut-
ting away the urgency of space and life without end.
Here were sane things, normal things, the tangible
stuff of life, holding life’s dimensions —sound and
scent and touch: Tom Mix, yawning and rolling the
whites of his eyes and demanding service.
Thought of the indignities to which the brute
had subjected him filled the man with sudden, whole-
some rage. He pictured the mule sleeping while he
toiled, with a child’s terror whipping him, through
the red solitude of the hills and the night.
Tom Mix stretched, luxurious as a cat, and nosed
him with trustful expectancy. Outside one of the
chained dogs whined, first living sound of the night.
It barked, short, urgent yaps, then whined again, and
bayed the red-rimmed moon.
Within Van Thorn some tension seemed to snap.
He brushed his hands over his face and stood a


moment, breathing deeply. Then he moved to un-
saddle the mule. The saddleflaps were badly torn,
the tree smashed past repairing.
Reaction took hold of Van Thorn. He, who
never.; struck a beast in anger, jerked savagely at the
mule’s mouth and kicked him in the belly. Tom Mix
lost his trustful apathy. He whirled, a red-eyed fury,
biting and kicking like a devil gone mad ; and it
was some minutes before it occurred to Van Thorn
that, had the mule not willed it, he certainly could
not have escaped out of the door.
For a long time- he lay on the ground where he
had fallen, fighting the fresh terror that, had him in
its grip—reawakened terror of the mule that was like
no other beast he had ever known. He thought, “I’ll
get rid of the brute —have him destroyed”;. . . and
he thought with a queer shuddering “That would be
murder” . . .
AFTER a time Van Thorn got up and saw Tom
Mix standing absolutely motionless in the open
doorway of the The mule could have followed
him out and killed him on the ground . . . He spoke
whisperingly, but Tom took no notice.
He was staring out into the paddock intently with
an interest, or so it seemed to the man, that was tinged
with uneasiness. His nostrils flared nervously, and
his huge prick ears twitched with uncertain inquiry..
Van Thorn touched his face, but Tom ignored
him ; so, satisfied that the devil was out of the beast,
the man edged back into the box and removed the
broken saddle. But when he tried to lead Tom Mix
out across the threshold the mule refused to move.
He took the bridle off and hung it on the peg
in the back of the box and stood there for a long
time, fighting the repugnance that overcame him at
thought of returning to the empty, sprawling house.
Tom Mix maintained his motionless vigil, but ever
and again in the dim light of the lantern the man saw
a tremulous ripple, like a slow shudder, go over the
beast’s body. Always was that nervous twitching of
the ears, the questing, nervous flaring of the nostrils;
but slowly the intent, watching eyes grew half-fearful,
yet red-rimmed with rage.
The moon slid westering and a cloud went over
it. Through the open doorway a cold breath seemed
to creep into the stable and a sudden fantasy of
shadows writhed athwart the night. Tom Mix threw
up his head, rearing a little, and went out of the
stable, stiff-legged, and snorting like a stallion.
lie went out across the pasture with that curious,
stiff-legged gait, neither run nor walk nor yet
an amble. His forefeet came off the ground one
after the other, yet both were clear of the ground
together. His ears were pricked forward, his short
mane seemed to bristle, and he held his rat tail stiffly
erect, cocky as a stallion that is drunk with pride.
The cloud left the face of the moon, but
still the pastures were dark with unspeakable
shadows that writhed. Beyond them, in the hol-
lows above the swamps, the mist rose sickly in
strange goblin shapes that had neither form nor
substance and yet were fraught with menace.
Tom Mix snorted again, curveting and arch-
ing his neck, reared suddenly, ears flattened to his
neck, teeth villainously bared in the light.
Perpendicular on his hind legs he braced
himself to meet some terrific shock that
rocked him almost off: his balance, but,
active as a cat, he twisted to earth and
leaped away, and the night was
sundered by his high-pitched,
savage screaming. He swerved
and went up again, slashing
with appalling savagery at his
ghostly opponent.
Once, screaming with hate
and terror, he went to his knees,
driven there by a hail of in-
visible blows that sickened the
watching man to his soul, and
then he was up again, fighting with whirlwind fury the
terror of the unseen.
Behind the stables the dogs howled and moaned,
while down the pasture the horses milled, snorting
until the air was vibrant with the sound.
Tom Mix reared up and up, striking blindly, flail-
ing his wicked head to and fro, crashed over and over,
half-rose and crashed again, screaming with pain and
a fear that transcended pain.
Van Thorn ran from the stable door shouting
crazily at the thing that he could neither hear nor see,
and the earth heaved again in its unutterable torment
and the voice of its agony surged upward in a roar
that drowned out all individual sound. Flung down,
Van Thorn scrambled on hands and knees towards
the dark blot that was Tom Mix, silent now, and still.
The red light was gone from the face of the moon
and all the pastures were bathed in a pure white glow.
Over the swamps the little fingers of the mist shone
with a gossamer loveliness.
Van Thorn stood up. In him a great peace
warred with a great sorrow and a sense of loss.
Tom Mix lay unmoving, his head flung back, his
teeth bared in a savage grin, but there was no mark
on him. And no strange hoof-marks mingled with
his on the turf.
Van Thorn knelt beside him, touching the strong,
ugly head that was already hardening in death ; and
in his soul was a sense of dismay and of abiding
sorrow for the spirit of the beast that could never
know fulfilment.
To the muffled dream of hoof beats a little wind
went past him and away under the moon. Life pass-
ing, passing by . . .
His fingers slid down the dead beast’s muzzle
and rested there with unpremeditated tenderness.
“Green pastures,” said Van Thorn, “and an under-
standing God” ...
No longer fearful, but infinitely troubled, he left
Tom Mix lying there and went towards the house-
Before he went in he paused a moment to look back
on the quiet earth.
Jacky Finds a Melon—And a Pig:—
THE MELON
BY
J.H.SCHMEIDER
DARK, deeply-set eyes fixed meditatively on the
split-wood garden fence, Jacky sat in the broken
shade of a small Moreton Bay-fig behind the
stables, the big black Berkshire sow sprawling, belly
towards him, at his feet. Jacky tickled its belly with
a big toe, the sow grunting contentedly with closed
eyes.
“Him ripe,” Jacky spoke- aloud; “him lovely
pfeller ripe. Me bin cutum. Me know.” His
remarks had reference to the big melon, a green-
striped, forty-pound beauty, in the hotel vegetable
garden adjacent the stables and adjoining the pigyard.
For days. Jacky, hungrily, mouth watering at the
thought of its juicy sweetness, had watched the ripen-
ing melon, now covered with dry grass against sun-
burn and the attack of predatory crows. Never before
had he seen a melon like it. Like a green-striped
mound, it had pushed its elongated roundness above
the tangle of leafy vine, expanding daily and greying
to the warmth of the December sun. The largest
watermelon the garden had produced, it was being
saved to provide a banquet for the hotel people.
Jacky’s ever-present fear was that he would not
get a fair share of the melon. His fear had grown
as the melon matured, till finally it became an unend-,
ing torment. Day and night Jacky’s thoughts were
’ on the melon, planning and plotting, seeking a way
to obtain possession without turning suspicion his way.
“Have to pickum,” he muttered, still tickling the
sow, now half-asleep, “or some bad pfeller man only
“Wot for you didn’t stay home?”
stealum. Might stealum to-night.
Him ripe,” he told the sow ; “him
beautiful pfeller ripe. Jacky bin
cutum, Jacky bin turn over,
cutum little pfeller hole in
bottom. Jacky bin put piece in
again. Him sweet. Jacky bin
tastum.”
Suddenly his face, shaded by
a dilapidated bro\yn felt hat,
brightened. He glanced down at
the drowsy sow, still grunting
weakly. “By cripes, me pickum,”
he said excitedly. “Me pickum
to-night! Go yer fifty-fifty.
Jacky eatum melon. You eatum
skin. You eatum all up. Won't
know den dat Jacky took melon.
Fair go, eh? You no tellum
boss? All .right, Jacky pickum
melon to-night.”
1N the shadow of the big
1 bleached log in the small horse-
paddock below the garden Jacky
sat on his heels mopping his perspiring lace with a
soiled sugar-bag. The moonlit night was hot, and
Jacky had found the melon heavier than expected.
“By cripe, him heavy pfeller,” he grunted,
glancing down at the glistening melon, its striped huge-
ness enhanced by the bright bareness of the ground
about Jt. “Jacky nearly couldn’t carryum ; makum
sweat. Phew, him hot!” i .
He took a penknife from a trousers pocket and
set about cutting the melon. The delicate blade,-too
frail for the purpose, threatened to snap, and Jacky
desisted.
“Shoulda brought butcher knife,” he grunted
disappointedly. “Hard as plurry hell! Haveter
breakum.”
Lifting the melon, he was about to dash it on
the ground when the grunting of a pig coming his
way halted him.
“Plurry sow,” he growled disgustedly. “Musta
got outa sty. Couldner shut door proper. S’pose
she t’ink Jacky goin’ to cheat her. She plurry liar if
she t’ink so. Jacky wouldn’t cheat a pig. Jacky a
gentleman.”
The grunting grew momentarily louder as the
sow followed hungrily along his tracks, snuffling
loudly as she came. She quickened her pace as the
scent strengthened.
“Silly cow,” Jacky grumbled, lowering the
melon. “Make such a row someone hear her
yet. Shurrup!” he growled irritably, scowling
darkly in the pig’s direction.
Hearing his voice, the sow paused to listen ; then,
catching his scent, came lumbering along at a run.
“You’re a beauty,” Jacky chided as the panting
sow came up, distended udders almost brushing the
ground. “Wot for you didn’t stay home? Make so
much noise someone hear you yet. By cii’, you get
no melon den. Jacky eatum all by himself. Might
eatum all yet.”
THE soWj.smelling the melon, pushed against Jacky
to get at it. Jackv pushed her aside. “Here, wot
game dis?” he demanded, lifting the melon on to the
log out of her reach.
“Wanter eatum all by
yourself, eh? Not if
Jacky plurry well know
it! Go yer fifty-fifty as
me bin promise. Jacky
eat melon, you eatum
skin. Fair go!”
The hungry sow be-
came so vociferously
pressing that Jacky de-
cided to get on with the
feast. The night was
still, save for the occa-
sional nose-blowing anc
stamping of a couple of
feeding horses, and there
was grave danger of the
sow’s noisy outbursts at-
tracting curious attention.
Climbing the log,
Jacky raised the melon
and brought it down on
the flattened surface at
the log's forking, breaking it in two. Repeating the
process with a dripping half, he grabbed up a huge
chunk and bit greedily. The sugary juice of the
nicely-ripe melon squirted from his mouth and
trickled down a stubby chin.
The sow redoubled her pleading, running up and
down, squealing, grunting loudly on discovering the
melon beyond her reach. Jacky became alarmed.
“Shurrup! ” he
commanded, choking
down a mouthful of
melon. “Ain’t no skin
yet. Jacky got to eat
first.”
The sow tried to
climb the log. “Hah,
hah, hah: hoh, hoh,
hoh ; wough,
wough!” she
v o c iferated,
polished
teeth gleam-
ing white in
open mouth.
“W o ugh,
wough!”
J a c ky’s
alarm in-
creased.
“Gorstruth! ”
he exclaimed,
“Take de plurry lot!”
throwing the sow the _ piece of melon in his
hand, “eat dat an’ shut yer mout’. Have whole plurry
pub down here in a minit.” _
The sow swallowed the offering at a gulp. She
demanded a second helping. Jacky gave it, cursing
volubly. The sow asked a third helping. Jacky
obliged again, having to break the remaining portion
of the half of melon.
“Of all de gluttons!” Jacky cursed as with con-
sternation he saw the third helping of melon disappear
down the sow’s throat. “Jacky haveter hurry up or
get no melon at all.”
With his fingers he gouged out another piece
and pressed it against his mouth. The sow became
noisy again. Her hunger was whetted. She liked
melon, particularly the rich, red, sugary heart of a
melon, and she was determined to have more. She
hah-hah’d, hoh-hoh’d, squealed and woughed until
she got it. She bolted the pieces as fast as Jacky
could break and throw them to her. One half of the
melon had disappeared and the second half been com-
menced, and Jacky’s share had been no more than
a few hurried mouthfuls.
P) ESPERATE, Jacky voiced further protests. “Here,
yp u § reed y pfeller,” he pleaded pathetically,
“gibbit fair go. Jacky promise gibbit only skin.
Melon no good for fat pig. Gibbit bellyache. Fifty-
fifty, Jacky bin promise. Skin fifty-fifty.”
The sow evidently thought otherwise. Her appe-
tite was only partly satisfied, and she was determined
to have her fill. Begging as noisily as-ever, she stood
on hind legs and tried: to. grab the remaining melon,
nearly knocking it off the log. Jacky smacked her
soundly on the snout. “GOramighty, wot a plurry
glutton!” he said with angry disgust. “Eat jus’ like
a pig. By cripe, you get heart disease yet, you bin
swallowum so quick. Haveter go to hospital den an’
getum cut out.”
Throwing the sow an extra-large piece of skin,
“Me pay her out."
Jacky grabbed up a piece of
melon and ate greedily, splut-
tering and choking. But
Jacky was hopelessly out-
classed. A couple of hurried
chops, a greedy gulp and the
sow was begging again.
Jacky almost wept in his dis-
appointment. “Oh, you big
pfeller glutton!” he wailed,
smashing a piece of melon
on the sow’s nose; “you big pfeller
glutton! You worse’n two alligator.
Jacky never go fifty-fifty wit’ greedy fat
pig agen. Here”—he spat viciously as
the sow came forward once more —“take
de plurry lot!” And, standing up on the
log, he brought down, with all his might the remain-
ing round of melon on the begging sow’s head.
Leaving her to up the fragments of melon
Jacky (painfully disappointed) hopped to the ground
and headed for his bunk in the stables, cursing the sow
for her greediness.
‘Teach dis pfeller to go fifty-fifty wit' greedy fat
pig,” he muttered sullenly as he stepped lightly along.
“If me ever do it agen hope me haveter eat all de
plurry melon meself.' But me pay her out,” he swore ,
“me pay her out. Me not give her no supper to-night.”


W£M
mm
mm
WOLFE’S^
W®!
SCHIEDAM
'
lllllill
»SgSSgS§B»S»^: : :::>
gp:£Sp|f§£
• .■: - •
S^SS
®s
pp:p
I
■
■
MgKPijKKgS^
P*
» i
si¥
1 ■ |
PPIPf
'■*:**-:xV
pSsftggfeSvX
HlpS
g£SS&
mm
i
•wA-Ws-Jv:**?
gp:
: : : : : : : : : :
■ •.•■
in
: : :*5:
WM
■sm
I
111111
gpKr**-"^
liii
■n
■ & !
mm
;*g
Hi
w
figs sgsgaw
m
m
1
Ww§m
mmm
mm
K i'fM
ppg
mm
■
Bli!
M
Mi
Wtf:
■MW/s
pps
Y&ssmfo
mmm&
•ysassssi
■;
1111111
■'
g:g:*i
■I
ggg
1
■
mfmmmM
mm
m&mm
W. 5.108 F.P.
the healthy, hard-working people of Holland,
womenfolk as well as men know the tonic value of a daily
glass of Schnapps. Thousands of Australians, too, have learned
the same simple rule of health, and for over eighty years the
Schnapps they have preferred is WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
the purest of all gin spirits,
Wolfe s Schnapps comes direct from Holland to Australia. It
is distilled to-day to the same recipe invented by Udolpho Wolfe
300 years ago. Real Italian juniper berries are used in its
distillation, and it is their splendid diuretic properties that so
largely contribute to the health-promoting goodness of Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Wolfe’s Schnapps tones the kidneys, cools and
purifies the blood stream and is especially valuable to women
and men of middle-age.
Iry the small bottle; it contains a week’s supply—enough to
prove to you the wisdom of the famous Wolfe’s Schnapps
slogan, ik One a day for your Health’s Sake!”
WOLFES SCHNAPPS


A Story of Faithfulness:—
JIMBLE'S
CURISTMAS
BY
KATHARWE SUSANNAH PRICHARD
THERE were all sorts
of yarns about the
Hon’rable Charles at
Sleeping River.
“First time I seen
him was in ’96,” said Jo
Foster. “Me and me
brother was prospectin’ in the Frazer Ranges, and
went down to Sleepin’ River station for stores.
Couple of miles out, struck Charley gettin’ round
with a mob of gins, all of ’em mad drunk.
“They told us on Sleepin’ that Charley was the
son of an English earl. He’d gone bush: been livin’
with the blacks for years. Every three months when
the Grace Darlin’ come up the river with stores it’d
be the same. Charley got a remittance or something
—and he blew it up then and there. It’d be Christmas
in the blacks’ camp till the food and drink give out.
Charley’d get round with ’em until the next money
was due. Then it’d be merry blazes agen.
“But the money stopped cornin’ after a bit, and
Charley went prospectin’. Did pretty well, -too, with
a couple of gins shiftin’ mullock for him.
“That was when he began cornin’ in here. Mostly
he’d have a few ’weights in his pocket, start drinkin’
on the strength of ’em, and there was no gettin’ rid
of him. And the blacks’d come traipsing after him
like a flock of crows.
“ ‘Gibbit it loose chilber, Charley,’ the gins’d say,
bailing him up in the street.
“ ‘Gibbit it chented choap.’
“They’d acquired expensive tastes, knocking
around with the Hon’rable Charles.
“Mick Ryan put Charley on the train at Far-away
once and sent him off to Coolgardie to get rid of
him. But he was back in no time, and the whole
mob with him.
5 “They camped down there by the Salt Lakes, and
you’d see Charley settin’ playin’ euchre with the gins
all day. He’d play while he had a rag to his back —
play for his pipe, his knife, anything he’d got. When
he struck a bit of a show near by, some of the boys
thought they’d go along and see if they could play
him for it. But Charley and the gins cleaned them
out. You never saw such a mob!
“When Charley sold his show to the South-East
Syndicate, the whole camp lived on the fat of the
land. The gins could buy anything they fancied in
the store, and went about dressed up like a sore finger.
The men, too. They bought up all the tinned stuff,
biscuits, sweets, cigarettes and tobacco in sight—-and
went sick on them. It was a blessing when Charley
was broke and the crowd went bush again.
“Nobody heard anythin’ of him for a couple of
years. Then he came in here one night with George
Weatherspoon—and young Jimble under one arm.
George had driven them up from the estuary in that
old rattle-trap of his: said Charley had given him a
lump of gold to drive him and the kid into Sleepin’.
“The kid had the soles of his feet burned.
Couldn’t have been more than four years old then.
Fair made you sick to look at them. He’d walked
over the ashes of a fire and was. in a bad way. The
camp had been having a beano, it seems, and nobody
was in a fit state to look after young Jimmy, so
Charley picked him up and walked into the station
with him, brought him here for my missus to fix up.
“The nearest doctor was in Coolgardie, over a
hundred miles away. So there was nothing for it.
The wife done the best she could for the youngster:
plastered his feet with some home-made ointment,
and Charley hung round, making a nuisance of him-
self until young Jimble’s feet were healed and he
could hobble about a bit.
“Then they set out for the coast again. It’s
nearly eighty miles between the Sleepin’ River Hotel
and the estuary, as the crow flies, and Charley
made the distance, carrying the kid on his back most
of the way. He was on the sick list himself, too,
though you would never have thought it to look at
him. A _ tall, strapping chap,. gone tough as leather
with gettin’ about half-naked in the sun and weather,
he might have passed for no more than fifty when
he was well on the three score; but he had some
trouble with his eyes.”
'"THE Sleeping River Hotel stood on a long stretch
1 of arid country between Far-away and the coast
in a scrub of grey-green snap and rattle, flanked by
shelving, ridges. In the rainy seasons, every break in
the rough, shingly earth carried a rushing torrent;
but for the greater part of the year there was no sign
of water for miles in any direction. Only the broad,
sandy swale of a dead river lay glistening with salt
crystals under clear blue skies, along its old course
because, although rain-
water accumulated between
its shallow banks, it dis-
appeared in a day or so,
leaving the riverbed bare
and silent, as though the
stream were sleeping be-
neath.
When Speck Jones and
Yank Delver picked up a
hatful of slugs in the Sleep-
ing River sands there was
a rush that promised well
for the locality. Jo Foster
built a shack and called it
the Sleeping River Hotel;
but the rush had petered
out, and Foster’s remained
the whole township—pub,
post office and store.
It is still the only habi-
tation on the old coast
road; Jo Foster and his
wife popular with prospec-
tors and motorists off the beaten track. Jo was tired
of “chasing ’weights” when he built the pub, he
explained, and, having sunk all his money in it, had
to stay where he had planted himself. Mrs. Foster
nearly died of the loneliness at first; but now you
could not get her out of Sleeping River, Jo complained.
She was “afraid somebody might forget to feed the
birds.” They came out of the bush every evening
when she called: all sorts of birds, pigeons, butcher-
birds, magpies, little warblers, willy-willies, and she
fed them with crumbs and chopped-up meat.
Must have been four years later, Charley
stumbled into Sleepin’, down and out and nearly blind.
There had been a row in the blacks’ camp and
he’d been kicked out. From what you could gather
of Charley’s story, he couldn’t see to go prospecting
any more ; was a bit of an encumbrance in the camp,
though a quarrel over a gin had something to do
with it. But young Jimble had lit out with Charley
and steered him along the sandy courses of the dead
river and over steep shingly ridges to the hotel.
A BRIGHT kid, Jimble was, not more than eight
years old then, and thought the sun shone out
of Charley. The old blackguard treated him like a
dog: knocked the youngster about when he was drunk
and didn’t care what happened to Jimble if Charley
“You naughty boy! Put your hat on or you'll get sunstroke."
himself struck a mug to stand him drinks and a meal
at the pub.
Jimble could fend for himself, Charley knew no
doubt. The kid had a way of standing at a back door,
looking hungry and miserable, no woman could resist.
He soon learned to cadge for Charley and himself
when food was short.
They wandered about the countryside living on
what they could pick up ; dropping in on rushes and
fettlers’ camps, working the pubs from the coast to
Coolgardie, taking their time about it, covering two
or three hundred miles a year, on foot mostly; but.
with lifts from miners or farmers, going down to
Norseman or Esperance now and then.
A queer pair they made, the disreputable Eng-
lish gentleman and the aboriginal urchin in his brief,
grimy pants, shreds of a woollen jersey and man’s
hat, an old felt somebody had given him. Charley
still spoke with what was known as the la-di-da of
smart society, though he tramped the roads, all his
worldly goods, including perhaps an extra pair of
boots and two or three shirts, on his back.
It was a common sight when Charley was making
a night of it in a bar to see young Jimmy huddled
up somewhere outside ; crouched over the embers of
a little fire he had made for himself or asleep on the
verandah.
Long, dark hours he waited for Charley, cold,
wet and hungry. But when Charley staggered out of
the bar yelling “Jimmy! Where are you, Jimmy?
Damn and blast the little devil, what’s become of
him?” Jimmy would spring to his side, all but wagging
his tail, and saying: “All right. Bin waiting forum,
Charley.”
And the pair of them would sway out into the
darkness together, the youngster struggling forward
under the clutch of the old man’s hand on his shoul-
der, straining to steer the direction of his tall, unwieldy
body. If Charley collapsed by the roadside and
refused to budge Jimmy built a fire to warm him, and
trotted off to their camp for Charley’s blanket, tucked
it round him and rolled himself in a couple of bags
before lying down to sleep.
MICK RYAN it was who said something ought to
be done about an old-age pension for Charley.
The authorities got in touch with his family, and
arrangements were made for ten shillings a week to
be paid to the Hon’rable Charles. Mrs. Foster ran
the post office as an adjunct to the store and pub.
Charley’s ten shillings went into the pub as fast
as he got them. Jo tried to sidetrack him by giving
him credit for stores against his remittance, and
refused to hand out any cash for booze, and Mrs.
Foster persuaded him to go up and see the doctor in
Coolgardie about his eyes.
Charley came back to Sleeping with his eyes
bandaged. The doctor had operated, and warned
him to keep off the drink if he wanted to see again.
Young Jimmy heard him say that: he had shepherded
Charley away from the pub, taken him bush and
tried to keep him there. But Charley had fallen in
with a party of prospectors going into Sleeping for
a bender. Jimmy followed them and hung round the
pub, miserable as a bandicoot, telling the men what
“that big pfeller doctor with the buckteeth in Cool-
gardie” had said.
It was Christmas-time. The boys were all too
far gone perhaps when he got to Foster’s to under-
stand what young Jimmy was driving at. Thought it
was a good joke, him trying to keep old Charley on the
water-wagon.
Mrs. Foster her-
self was angry when
she knew what had
happened.
“You ought to
be ashamed of your-
sel v e s,” she said.
“Jimmy’s got more
sense than the
lot of you.”
It was too
late to do any-
thing with
Charley then.
Mrs. Foster
took Jimmy
round to the
kitchen and set
him to work
plucking a wild
turkey. With a
house full of
men, looking
for a slap-up
meal next day,
she was glad of
any help Jimmy
could give her.
“It’s no
good worrying,
Ji m m y,” she
said. “W hen
men are on the
drink like that
you’ve just got
to leave them to
it. It’s Christ-
mas and their
idea of having
a good time.
God knows,
there’s nothing
else for them to
do out here.”
‘What Christ-
mas, missus?” said
Jimmy, very glum
and pulling the glossy
bronze and black and
green feathers from the turkey on the back verandah.
Mrs. Foster was busy icing a cake, the kitchen
full of hot, spicy odors.
“Christmas one big feller feast time,” she ex-
plained cheerily. “White-feller corroboree —everybody
makum happy feller eat, drink, sing, givum presents.'
The brown face grinned back at her. “Pfellers
in bar give you presents, missus?”
“I daresay some of them will. A bit of gold,
a box of scent or some handkerchiefs from the store.
But I’ll tell you a secret, Jimmy. I asked Santa Claus
for a concertina, and I’m hoping to find it in my
stocking to-morrow morning.”
The boy looked puzzled. Concertina in a stock-
ing! How could that be?
Mrs. Foster laughed at his solemnity. “Santa
Claus he one big jinkie feller, come round Christmas
Eve, Jimmy,” she said. “All the white children hang


ULTIMATE
THE PERFECT SOUND INVESTMENT
Baby Grand
Cabinet.
ULTIMATE tone is an exact
reproduction of the original.
Tone Colour, that almost in-
describable something which
* makes tones rich, melodious and
pleasing, is present in abundance
in ULTIMATE reproduction, for
the Rola loudspeaker has been
specially designed to suit this
make of set.
For you who covet quality, who seek the new and different in the Radio you own . . .
ULTIMATE’S the answer.
ULTIMATE sets the pace for the whole radio Held. In New Zealand ULTIMATE
RADIO has secured nine Champion of Champions Awards against the whole field of
American, English and Australian sets and now has just won
The DX Cup Championship
against allcomers with a world record score of 798 verified stations. ULTIMATE
now holds records for All-Electric Sets with 798 stations and for Battery-operated
sets with 531 stations.
Pick the model you desire to hear from the range below, then write us for full infor-
mation and name of your nearest dealer.
Five-valve “Treasure Chest” £lB/10/-
Six-valve Empire Console for broad-
cast reception £2B/10/-
Six-valve Empire All-wave for world-
wide reception £36/10/-
Seven-valve Empire Battery-operated
Broadcast Console £3B/10/-
Seven-valve Baby Grand Battery-
operated All-wave Console for
world-wide reception
Eleven-valve Twin Chassis De Luxe
Model High Fidelity Receiver
with 20 watts output—Radio. .
Radio Gramophone Combina-
tion
£45/12/
£B2/10/
£95/10/
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & COMPANY LIMITED
Electrical and Industrial Engineers, 267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service:
Rola Loudspeakers, Mullard Radio Valves, Van Ruyten Auto Radio, Staiger Gramophone Pickups.
Queensland Distributors: National Radio, Cnr. Queen and Wharf Streets, Brisbane.
up their stockings on Christmas Eve, and Santa Claus
comes down the chimney; puts lollies and toys in
their stockings. Sometimes I forget I’m not little
feller now —and he won’t come to me any more.”
“That Santa Claus pfeller only come to kids?”
Jimmy asked in amazement.
Mrs. Foster nodded. Suddenly she realised that this
aboriginal youngster was the only child she had ever
had at the Sleeping River Hotel at Christmas-time. It
—ro—— —— -
would be a hard day for him, with old
Charley drunk, most likely, or sleeping off
his grouch in their camp if Jimmy took him
away when Jo shut up for the night.
“Gee, Jimmy,” she said gaily, “p’raps
he’ll come to see you.”.
Jimmy looked down at his bare brown feet.
“No socks,” he said dolefully.
“I’ll lend you one of Jo’s,” Mrs.
Foster promised, “and you can sleep on
the floor in the kitchen. I’ll tell Jo to let
Charley sleep in the bar parlor—so he’ll
be all right. But, mind, you’ve got to
keep the blanket right over your head
when you go to sleep. That Santa Claus
very nasty jinkie feller if you look when
he come. All the same jinkie at black-
feller corroboree when women and chil-
dren must keep head covered up. He
go away—and not leave new knife or
some lollies, maybe, if you look.”
“I keepum eyes shut, missus,”
said Jimmy. His nimble brown fin-
gers plucked industriously, but his
face was thoughtful.
“What way that pfeller Santa
Claus come —motor-car, buggy, rid-
ing bicycle?” he asked, after a
mnmpn t
moment.
“Oh, he comes from a long way away,”
Mrs. Foster replied, letting her imagination
run. “He comes galloping out of the sky in
a big sleigh with reindeers for horses —big
buggy, ponies like steers, plenty horns.”
“By cri’l” Jimmy trembled with excitement.
“P’raps he’ll bring my concertina, too, if he’s
coming to see you,” Mrs. Foster said, enjoying the
game they were playing together.
THERE was no end to the odd jobs Jimmy did for
her that night. He filled the woodbox, fed the
fowls, dried the dishes and scrubbed the kitchen floor.
Finished up, at her suggestion, by washing out his
shirt and ragged pants and giving himself a bath in
the horse-trough before he rolled into an old grey
blanket under the kitchen table and went to sleep.
Most of the men had been bending the elbow all
the evening when Mrs. Foster went into the bar to tell
them about her scheme for Jimble’s Christmas.
“It’s the first time I’ve ever had a kid on the
place on Christmas Eve,” she said, “and it’s up to
you to give me something for him.”
Those who were sufficiently sober followed her
into the store, and Mrs. Foster did a roaring trade.
There was a new shirt and pants for Young Jimmy,
a belt and a knife and red handkerchief, some lollies
and fancy biscuits, an Ashburton felt hat and a
mouth-organ.
Charley insisted on playing Santa Claus, and
made a good deal of noise about it. Mrs. Foster
thought she could trust Jimmy’s aboriginal instinct
not to venture a glance
if he heard a jinkie
moving about; but she
had wrapped the red
tablecloth round Charley
“And you fellows will have to remember to
concentrate on the adults—children are
rather sceptical about Santa Claus."
and pinned some cotton-wool to his bandages
before she led him out to stuff the parcels into Jo’s
socks, dangling from the kitchen table, under which
Jimmy was sleeping, and to put the overflow on the
floor beside him.
It was late before the racket in the bar died down
and Mrs. Foster herself got to sleep. Men were
sprawled all over the house that night, sleeping
wherever they could find a space to stretch in. When
she waked, however, there was the big brand-new con-
certina Jo had promised her on the end of the bed
and Jo himself snoring peacefully beside her. She
got up and dressed quietly so as not to disturb him,
intending to get the fire lighted and breakfast on the
way before the men began to stir.
As she went into the kitchen she smiled to her-
self, wondering how Jimble was taking his windfall.
The kitchen was empty, although his blanket and
the paper his parcels had been wrapped in still lay
on the floor.
Looking out of doors she saw him in all the
glory of his new shirt and trousers, big felt hat and
red handkerchief, knife in belt, walking backwards
and forwards across the backyard, searching over the
ground as though he had lost something.
“Merry Christmas, Jimmy!” she called. “My,
aren’t you grand! ”
He came up to her, his eyes brilliant but troubled.
“That pfeller Santa Claus
bringum,” he said. “Bin look for
tracks, missus. Team of reindeer
you tellum —like steers, plenty horns.
No tracks. Proper jinkie that pfeller
Santa Claus; smell like Charley, I
reck’n.”
Mrs. Foster laughed at his
shrewdness: he had got a whiff of
the iodoform on Charley’s dressings,
she guessed—might argue, if he
wanted to, that “that pfeller Santa
Claus” was also an old man who had
trouble with his eyes. She wondered
how far Jimble’s native superstition
would carry him. He had gone
looking for tracks, as though not
altogether disillusioned by the smell
of Charley, at any rate.
CHARLEY paid for that Christ-
mas with his sight. Jimmy took
him to the doctor in Coolgardie.
But there was nothing to be done. Charley would
never see again. Between him and the darkness of
that rough, sun-blasted country there were only
Jimmy’s bright eyes. Charley and he wandered about
the roads and rushes much as they had always done.
But when they arrived at Sleeping River on Christ-
mas Eve a year later Jimmy was quite prepared for
Charley to drink with anybody who would drink with
him, and to help Mrs. Foster in the kitchen himself.
A spark of mischief, shrewd and beguiling, glinted
on his dark little face as he thrust out brown feet
with the broken rubber soles of old canvas shoes tied
round them.
“That jinkie pfeller Santa Claus bringum pair of
sandshoes this time maybe,” he remarked, looking up
at Mrs. Foster from the turkey he was plucking.
Every Christmas sure as clockwork they’d be
along, the Hon’rable Charley and Young Jimmy.
Everybody’d cash in for Jimble’s Christmas. Then
Charley died —and his own people took Jimble off
to make a man of him.


You will have an old man to keep
some day—that old man is YOU!
Be wise and make an early start on a
RETIREMENT
INCOME PLAN
Providing an Annual Income for 10, 15, 20 or 25 years
after reaching a selected age.
Life Assurance stood up to the depression in a way far
surpassing that of any other form of investment, and,
because it is scientifically sound, furnishes the safest and
best means to make this provision. When commenced at
an early age, the instalments each year are comparatively
small, while in the event of death the capital sum or balance
of the income (as the case may be) immediately becomes
payable.
Write for particulars to—
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Ltd.
(The “M.L.C.”)
which has very comprehensive contracts to offer in this connection.
Assets Exceed . . . £24,000,000
(of which 83 per cent, is invested in Government, Municipal and
other Public Securities).
Annual Income Exceeds . . . £3,300,000
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
E STABLISHE D
1834.
Established over a century, The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited stands,
to-day, as one of the foremost financial insti-
tutions in the Southern Hemisphere. Adhering
strictly to the sound principles of British Banking
practice, and adapting its services to the needs
of modern business conditions, the Bank pro-
vides every facility for the transaction of local
and overseas Banking and Exchange business.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
THE BANK OF ENGLAND, WESTMINSTER BANK, LTD.,
BARCLAY'S BANK, LTD., NATIONAL PROVINCIAL BANK, LTD.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—•
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORLU, QUEENSLAND, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
AND AT CANBERRA, FEDERAL TERRITORY.
Agents Throughout the World.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
A Brief Christmas Sketch
MAILMAN
BY HERBERT DAWSON
CHRIS TMAS
EVE! Damn
it all! Why
should a man have
to be out in all
sorts of weather
when other folk
sat under dry roofs
cracking jokes and
calculating the value of
the rain?
Frank Wilson savagely shook his head to
dislodge the raindrops that dripped from his
hat on to the point of his nose or crept
through the lining to reach the back of his
neck. Fetlock-deep in slush and rivulets of water, his
horses jogged along down the road towards soaked
flats that shimmered dully through the drizzling rain.
If he’d had any sense he would have stopped at
Lawton Plains! Haliwell told him he was a fool to
come on, and Haliwell always handed out good cheer
at Christmas-time . . . And there was that new maid,
Elsie Barnes —a pretty little thing, and she seemed to
like him a bit. He had been looking forward to
meeting her again, but had been in such a fool’s hurry to
get ahead of these rising creeks that he had just dropped
the mail and pushed on. If he had stopped . . . Hell!
What use thinking about that now! There was that
parcel of toys and things for the Matthewson kids.
No chance now of getting back to Lawton Plains.
That thunder, rolling and booming in the hills all the
morning, had meant heavy rain up in the range, and
Lawton Plains Creek had been nearly a swim when
he crossed it, and was rising fast. Plenty of excuse, that,
to stop a mailman with any brains at all!
Slatehill Creek! That damned ditch would be
a corker—just down there across that box flat. Sure
to be running a banker.
Frank pressed his heels into the flanks of his
bay mare, and she broke into a canter, the old piebald
packhorse loping heavily along beside her. The creek
when he reached it was right out on the flat. Riding
slowly to the edge of the slack water he pulled up
and dismounted. It was dusk now, and the hurrying,
muddy stream with its cargo of logs and rubbish
looked unpleasantly wide and dangerous. He swore
softly as he took off his oilskin, rolled his coat and
boots in it and fastened them with the box of toys
and lollies on top of the packsaddle.
CHRISTMAS! And all through a pack
of kids. He wouldn’t have come on
only for these damned toys and lollies ...
He unbuckled the reins to prevent the
mare getting her legs through them if any-
thing went wrong. “You’ll have your work
cut out here, old girl. We’ll be lucky if
we all get across. Come on, Paintbox!
You’ve got to get through, anyway, or the
Matthewson kids will have no Christmas,”
and he pulled the piebald round and mounted the
mare.
Snorting uneasily, the horses minced gingerly into
the water. Heads stretched out on the ruffled, muddy
surface, nostrils blowing
loudly. Then they started to
swim. Wilson slipped out of
the saddle on the downstream
side to ease the mare’s task,
and with his right hand rest-
ing on the pommel held the
reins and the halter loosely.
Funny how long horses
held their breath swimming!
Paintbox’s blow would be fol-
lowed by Actress’s, then a
long pause and the double
blow again. Like an engine
standing at the siding. Soon
be in the middle of the cur-
rent. Paintbox has got the
brunt of the stream up there
above Actress. Logs! That’s
the great danger in the
dark... Must be half-way
down. Hell, what’s this?
A great branchy log
loomed up just beyond Paint-
box’s head. Sweeping down,
head-on, it extended wide arms
towards them. Wilson pulled
the halter-end to turn the
horses downstream, but claw-
ing arms seemed to reach out
in the darkness, and the halter-
end was dragged from his
hand. Actress was blowing
and snorting in obvious dis-
tress, but, headed downstream
now, seemed to be getting
clear of the tree. Turn her
again now. Must be nearly
across. Good mare! She’s
game.
“This is London calling the Empiah.
Stand bai for a broadcast descrip-
tion of the King's herb-strewah
strewing herbs."
Poor old Paintbox! Hear him snorting out there
in that blasted tree—going downstream fast! He’s
done, and the kids’ toys too . . . Lord! A man can’t
hear a horse drown like that! And those kids!
With a weary flounder Actress pulled herself up
out of the water. But Wilson was not with her. He
struck out downstream, guided by the labored blowing
of the unfortunate Paintbox . . . Can’t break limbs
off in the water ... Get on the butt-end of the log
and try to kick it round . . . Yes, it must be swinging,
they were going down so fast. Paintbox is upstream
now. Must be free. Now to get out himself. God,
how tired he was!
The gloom of the trees along the bank came
nearer. Then a dark bulk loomed up at his shoulder.
He made a frantic effort to clear it. With a rolling
lurch the floating tree, swung by contact with the bank.
turned over and struck with thrash-
ing arms...
TWO weary horses, halter drag-
ging, walked up the track
to the Matthewson homestead.
Matthewson, hearing the dogs
bark, went out and returned in
a few moments with the articles
he had removed from the pack-
saddle after letting the horses go.
“Frank must have had to swim
Slatehill Creek. S'pose the horses
got away from him on this side.
I’ll go down and meet him.”
Mrs. Matthewson, not de-
ceived by her husband’s casual
speech, hastened white-faced to
heat up water. She could not have
told you why. It is the instinctive
thing to do in the bush in moments
of crisis. The five children squealed
delightedly over the toys and
sweets that a frightened-eyed
girl helped them unpack.
An hour later Mrs. Mat-
thewson bent over a blanketed
form in the spare room.
“Have you eaten all the soup?
Yes, your horses are quite all
right. Jim found you lying
across a forked log in against
the bank. Your head was just
out of the water. He says one
limb must have given you that
knock on the side of the head,
and, in rolling over against the
bank, the other limb must have
lifted you up. It was good of
you to come through just to
bring the toys and things.
You’ll have to put up with us
for Christmas; still I’ve a girl
friend to help entertain you. I think you know her.
She could not get back on account of the creek. She’s
a nice girl—Elsie ... Yes, Elsie. You know, Elsie
Barnes, who works over at Lawton Plains.”


Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
ofli&
Coroa* 110 "
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" . . , . t . . . From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" ....... From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" ......... From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
F ares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
2m
31
e
3
At your request we shall he
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
to
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars—the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
Tells of a Tough Ghost:-
THE GHOST
LAYERS
BY JOLIN JONES
££"PHIS ghost, this ’orrible glaring thing in
j white”
“Ghosts are not white,” interrupted the
expert coldly. “They are reddish-brown. The average
ghost is the color of raw liver.”
A murmur of angry dissent went round the meet-
ing, and Bill Ward persisted.
“Stone th’ crows, mister, me an’ Noble Jackson
seen the ghost on the culvert down by Gribble’s only
last week. It was as white as a boiled shirt and ’ad
eyes like headlights.”
Rapping sharply for order, the chairman (the
Mayor) intervened. “This meeting of citizens has
been convened to welcome Mr. Corbuckle, the famous
investigator of supernatural—er—infestations, who has
consented to run the rule over the Mooramble Ghost.
Kindly pay him the compliment of a fair hearing.”
Mr. Corbuckle bowed stiffly and continued his
dissertation. “In the publicity recently given the Moor-
amble Ghost the usual popular fallacies have, I grieve
to say, been repeated. This ghost, the wraith of a
local inhabitant murdered by persons unknown, is
described as mooning about his deserted farm at
midnight dressed in a glorified nightshirt and wailing.
An obvious commingling of legend with improper
observation.
A whiskery dairy-farmer rose truculently to his
feet. “ ’Ere, you! ” he bawled. “Me wife seen the
ghost one night just after we done the separating. ’Oo
are you calling improper? A bloke orter crack yer.”
Simpson, Mr. Corbuckle’s bullet-headed assistant,
started forward for the interjector, but the lecturer
waved him aside. “I withdraw the word ‘improper,’ ”
he said smoothly. “I am quite satisfied, gentlemen,
that the phenomenon exists. I shall take steps to hunt
down, trap and effectually ‘lay’ this ghost. I shall
destroy it utterly.”
A murmur of dismay rose from the audience.
Lay the ghost which had become such a profitable
local asset! Since reporters from Sydney papers had
whooped up the Mooramble legend the town had had
a growing influx of city visitors. The local pubs did
a roaring trade, half the population catered for
boarders, and the shire council was talking of putting
up a guest house. And now this long-winded blowhard
came along, promising to spoil the business altogether!
“I have here an apparatus for producing and con-
centrating a beam of ultra-short radio waves,” con-
tinued Corbuckle, exhibiting a large box crammed
with wires, valves, chokes, condensers, resistors and
batteries. “A materialisation or ghost is merely a
condensation in the ether. By projecting a beam of
short waves upon it I can shake its structure to pieces
beyond repair. When I meet the Mooramble Ghost
it will regret the day that it ever dared exist. Simpson,
demonstrate the apparatus for the gentlemen.”
Mr. Corbuckle’s assistant switched off the lights,
pressed a key, and, amid a staccato of electric barks and
sparks, a beam of bluish light flitted about the ceiling.
“What you see circling there, gentlemen, is
Death!” boomed the voice of Mr. Corbuckle from
the darkness. “Careful, Simpson! No, lower, please.
That ray will utterly destroy any living being as well
as any ghost that it penetrates. That will do, Simpson.
The demonstration is over.”
The meeting broke up in disorder, disgruntled but
impressed ; few waited for the vote of thanks. Angry
little groups gathered outside voicing indignation at
this scientific blight whom they had unwittingly in-
vited along to destroy their profits, but nothing further
was done.
A WEEK passed. Mr. Corbuckle and his assistant,
living at the best hotel at the township’s expense,
were indefatigable. By night they haunted—fruit-
lessly—the ghost’s pet sites for materialisation, with
the death-ray packed on a motor-truck borrowed from
the council. By day Mr. Corbuckle ferreted out and
cross-examined all local identities who claimed to have
encountered the apparition. Old Mrs. Martingale
received such a grilling that she took to her bed;
Bill Ward was pronounced a schizophrenic, and nega-
tively veridical; Noble Jackson, the local drunk, when
called a plain liar, swung a wild blow at Mr. Corbuckle
and received two horrible short jolts on the chin from
Simpson. The bystanders noted that Jackson remained
“out” for twenty-five minutes, and were suitably
impressed.
Obviously something would have to be done in
the matter before the last shreds of the profitable local
legend were scattered and discredited. A secret gather-
ing of influential citizens was convened to discuss the
situation. They gathered like conspirators in the cellar
of Thompson’s pub by candlelight. Jevon, the local
legal light, explained the situation.
“This man Corbuckle is living at our expense
here, and at the same time doing his best to damage
the reputation of the town. He says he will not leave
till he has encountered the ghost and annihilated it. We
cannot run him out, because the papers have his story,
and we would become an everlasting laughing-stock.
“Now I have no wish to doubt anyone’s veracity ;
but we are all friends here, and I think we recognise
that this Corbuckle is—er, well, extremely unlikely to
encounter the Mooramble Ghost, no matter how long
his stay. The only logical course is to ‘frame’ a
false ghost, let the man view it and get rid of him.”
“All very well,” grumbled the Mayor, “but we
got to have somethink that’s alive for this ’ere imper-
sonation. I’ve already thought of dressing up that
tame kangaroo of Windle’s in a sheet, but Corbuckle’d
only murder the pore beast with his blasted ray, then
examine the corpse, and we’d be a nice joke in the
papers afterwards.”
The conspirators murmured assent. Then the
solicitor again spoke up. “My solution is a human
sacrifice. This town can surely spare its walking dis-
grace, its local drunkard, to further the cause of trade,
tradition and progress. I vote we make a ‘ghost’ of
Mr. Noble Jackson.
“It’s a simple job,” he added, drowning the
exclamations of incredulity and surprise. And he
explained his diabolical plot, down to the method of
disposing of the corpse of Mr. Jackson afterwards.
“Jackson,” he concluded, “will disappear, the
police will drag the river, there’ll be a par. or so in
the papers, he’ll be forgotten in a few weeks ; Cor-
buckle will go, and everyone will be happy.”
A storm of objections broke out, but Jevon over-
came them all. Finally the plot was agreed to, though
many leading Mooramble citizens spent a sleepless
night in consequence, cogitating the respective values
of the local ghost, the local drunk and a conscience
haunted by murder at second-hand.
Next day the conspirators called on Mr. Cor-
buckle and explained that, as this day marked the
anniversary of the Mooramble murder, the ghost was
certain to appear that night, and that they proposed
to accompany him on his nocturnal search, hoping to
be “in at the death.”
Mr. Corbuckle was charmed, and generously
shouted drinks for the company at the town’s expense.
NOBLE JACKSON, captured and made comfort-
ably soused during the afternoon, was lured,
under promise of a keg of beer, to the haunted farm-
house. Here, under Jevon’s direction, the unfortunate
victim was securely bound and attached to a generous
length of rope. A bullock’s liver was draped round
him, and roller skates were fitted to his feet.
By this time the other conspirators had arrived
in Mr. Corbuckle’s motor-truck at the crest of the hill
overlooking the farmhouse. Mr. Corbuckle was all
agog with anticipation, and his villainous assistant
leered murderously over the ray that spelt death to
all, mortal or ghost, that encountered its beam.
Their arrival was the signal for immediate action
below. Sheltering behind the house, the plotters hauled
out Mr. Jackson, steadied him on his skates, then gave
him a hearty shove that carried him into full view, raw-
liver-color and all, of Mr. Corbuckle above on the hill.
As the weird object reeled wildly round in the
moonlight a shrill wail from his hidden manipulators
rent the air.
Mr. Corbuckle never turned a hair. “The ray,
Simpson,” he barked. In a moment, to the accom-
paniment of sparks and ominous crackles the blue
beam shot out, swung wide and finally focused on the
teetering object below. Some of the conspirators turned
faint and averted their eyes. The Mayor kept his head,
remembering Jevon’s programme. He slipped over the
side of the motor-wagon, chained and padlocked a
rear wheel to the frame, and slung away the key. At
the same time the plotters below swiftly retrieved the
corpse of Jackson by hauling in the rope.
The corpse proved to be very much alive. It
demanded either satisfaction for the outrage or more
beer. The relieved plotters hustled it off with sighs
of relief.
Up on the hill Mr. Corbuckle, after vain efforts
to shift the wagon except in a dragging skid, became
suddenly philosophical.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “I am more than satisfied
with this excellent materialisation of your local ecto-
plasmic protoplasm. It survived the ray. It actually
flitted away. This, I consider, was due to the phan-
tom’s etheric toughness. I congratulate you, gentle-
men, on that quality in your local ectoplasm, though,
to employ the vernacular, it spelt tough luck for Cor-
buckle—ha, ha, ha! Having verified your legend, I
shall pack up immediately and leave Mooramble
to-morrow.”
AT the railway station next day most of the popu-
lation gathered to see the last of their incubus.
A quick whip-round furnished a gift of a tidy sum
in a hat, which the Mayor presented with due solem-
nity. Mr. Corbuckle began a speech, but the train
was already moving. Feverish hands thrust him into
a carriage and piled the stocky Simpson on top of
him. They left Mooramble to a roar of ironic cheers.
As the last of the ghost-infested township faded
from their view, Mr. Corbuckle plucked off his horn-
rimmed glasses with a sigh of relief. “Well, we
brought it off, Sim,” he said cheerily.
“Fifty-fifty with that railway-station c’lection!”
growled Simpson angrily.
Mr. Corbuckle ignored the request. “Sim, Sim,
my dear, unreasonable old partner, just listen to this.
It’s the Mooramble ‘Banner’ —special edition of the
local rag. ‘World Famous Mooramble Apparition
Scores Again. Ghost Evades Celebrated Psychic In-
vestigator, Who Admits It Defies His Power!’ I
collected a cool fifty quid from the local council for
admitting as much in a special interview.”
“I cleaned up nearly twice as much from them
mugs,” retorted Simpson. “Everyone of ’em came to
me on the quiet with a bribe to put your ‘death-ray’
out of order and so save that pore drunk’s life.”
“That ray wouldn’t hurt an insect. But it was my
idea, anyhow. Kindly hand me over two-thirds of
that cash.”
“I wonder,” muttered Simpson dreamily.
“Wonder what?” said Corbuckle sharply.
“I wonder, Corbo, if you mightn’t be ’it by a real
death-ray yet.”
The celebrated one-two of Simpson’s fists crashed
on the scientist’s chin. He woke some time later to
an empty carriage, empty pockets and a note in scrawl:
“Syence aint everytliink so long Corb i
gone to smoke like a gost no good investiggatin
you aint got a gost of a chanst.”


A Pleasing Sketch of Childhood
CRAZING
FOR MR CAMBLE'S
HORSE
BY
FRANK MIDDLEMISS.
44T THOUGHT you would’ve finished. Is that all
I you’ve done whilst we was at school?”
I, too, had been surprised at the slowness
of my progress, but Alice does not encourage one
to depreciate one’s work. The painting of the fence,
I told her, represented but a part of my morning’s
labor. I had also perused the paper, retrieved a tennis
ball from the verandah gutter, and assisted Sister
Bingley with her wool.
“She’s making ’erself a singlet,” explained Beryl.
Such enterprise, I suggested, could meet only
with approval; let us see to it that we were always
as wholesomely engaged. In a non-committal silence
I started another panel. Besides Alice and Beryl I
now had as critics Joyce, Barbara and Clarice ; and
presently, their arrival heralded by friendly greetings
and the clatter of boot-protectors on the bridge over
the railway, Agnes and Norah, Hannah, Grace and
Lorna, and Kathleen and Evelyn and Ruth.
“D’you like paintin’, Mr. Pemberton?” inquired
Evelyn. “Stop pickin’ at ’is putty, Beryl!”
I could think of less pleasant occupations, I
replied. And, indeed, it was very restful, this leisurely
daubing of the palings, with the sound of birds about
one and the thin aromatic sweetness of the mountain
air. It was none the less agreeable for the company
of Beryl and Alice, Joyce, Evelyn and Hannah, Lorna,
Ruth, Kathleen and Clarice, and Norah, Agnes,
Barbara and Grace.
“I wisht you was always at Macquarie,” whis-
pered Agnes.
We have an understanding, I and Agnes. Cropping
has not diminished her rather rabbit-like appearance,
but her heart is benevolent and tender, and she does
not, as might some girls, take pride in having had
things in her head.
“I wisht you was my father.”
But this, from Hannah, was found vain, extrava-
gant and presumptuous. Hannah has no status. Quite
small girls attack her with their fists. Her gusts of
passion are only self-destroying. In the
gratifying phrase of Mr. Pratt, the Wel-
fare Inspector, Hannah is subnormal.
“Mr. Tovey has whiskers in his nose,”
observed Clarice, who, I was conscious,
had been regarding me somewhat closely.
Divers dubious traits, it seemed, distin-
guished Mr. Tovey. He was by nature
captious and capricious—not that his
canings hurt. In the opinion of Ruth, busy accom-
modating a “drummer” in a matchbox, Mr. Tovey
was mad.
Truly to the endowed are riches added. If I were
an artist I would paint a picture of Ruth —in her
playtime frock, a brief affair of sun- and soap-bleached
cotton, of the blue that the fellaheen favor, which
brings out the beauty of her honey-colored freckles
and the cornflower blueness of her eyes.
“I know who gave youse the locus’,” challenged
Hannah.
But I was not to know immediately who had given
Ruth the locust, for there came at this juncture the
sound of the dinner gong.
OF official donations to Macquarie Orphanage the
supply of orphans seems easily the most constant,
but with neither Sister Bingley nor my sister-in-law,
the matron, have I discussed with any satisfaction the
reason for this glut of little girls. The question is
possibly too abstract for those with so much to engage
them. It is a business doubtless presenting sufficient
problems, this caring for thirty-five young females
and (in a manner befitting to their station) in some
measure habilitating them for life.
My standing at Macquarie is peculiar. It is in
no way comparable, of course, with Mr. Tench’s or
the Rector’s, and it is different again from that of
Mr. Steptoe, of the committee ; it has points of like-
ness, I am afraid, to that of Miss McNiven, who calls
with dairy produce on a Friday and has no roof to
her mouth. But while the interest attaching to Miss
McNiven is not of her seeking, I have deliberately
exploited such claims as I have to notice. Standards
are so different at Macquarie. I count myself fortu-
nate in that I am double-jointed and have a compass
on my watch-chain, and can simulate the sound of
water gurgling from a bottle and so .contract the
muscles as perceptibly to move my ears.
To these gifts, no doubt,
is due in part the felicity
of our relations. Delicate
secrets have been entrusted
to me, matters to which it
would surprise me if the
Rector or Mr. Steptoe were
privy—that Mr. Pert, the
newsagent, is a theophilus by
religion ; that Hannah some-
times says b , which is
swearing, having heard her
auntie say it before she was taken away
because she was silly ; that Sister Bingley
uses a loover in her bath.
J ALWAYS enjoy my week-ends at Mac-
' quarie. Even Mr., Slatterthwaite, now
elephantinely busy among the rhododen-
drons, I have found affable according to
his lights.
“Nice show of roses,” I remarked.
They were fairish, he conceded, peep-
ing a moment from his weeding.
I had liked, too, I confessed, the
appearance of his pumpkins.
They were fairish, Mr. Slatterthwaite
allowed.
The beetle didn’t worry him, I sug-
gested.
They were a fairish sort of pumpkin,
said Mr. Slatterthwaite finally. And now
came hearty pipings of thanksgiving, and
presently a vanguard of Clarice, Evelyn and Agnes,
and the clang of the schoolhouse bell.
< \I/E’D golden pudding,” announced Evelyn.
W “Hullo, Alfred!”
“Hullo, Alfred!” echoed Agnes.
I observed, in the object of these greetings, a
red-and-bullet-headed lad ploughing up the dust, until
this moment, as might any red-and-bullet-headed boy.
But for his manner —a growing flamboyance, a cer-
tain freedom with his spittle—one might have judged
him insensible of our notice ; but for the exercises
with which he now embellished, as it were, his pro-
gress—hints of his prowess, abortive and showy
gestures, faintings, shapings at imaginary wickets,
leapings and the like. And walking at length back-
wards he rent the perfumed air with tuneless
whistlings, becoming presently articulate, but at such
a distance as to make dqubtful the tenor of his
remarks.
I picked up my belongings preparatory to
luncheon. So, 1 reflected, does the lyrebird advertise
his splendor to the female.
“That’s Alfred Inskip,” confided Agnes.
On such a muted note had Sister Bingley advised
me of the visit of the Rector with just such a ravished
air.
“ Baldy , why can’t We be friends?"
j T was upon Alfred that there developed the following
1 Sunday morning the delivery of Mr. Gamble’s horse.
There was good grazing in the play-paddock, and Mr.
Gamble had always been generous with his surplus
milk.
From my chair on the back verandah I had a
good view of their arrival. It was a gingery, rather
thoughtful-looking horse, and scarcely seemed to call
for such tch-tchings, whoaings and giddupings. Per-
haps there had been differences on the way. Having
formally established it in the neighborhood of the
swing, the boy Inskip stood and frowned at it. And
the horse eyed Alfred, considered Hannah’s handful
of thistles, rippled a little at the shoulders and pro-
ceeded to initiate that cycle so important to the sus-
tained productivity of the soil.
To all these phenomena there was numerous and
interested witness.
“P’raps we’ll have mushrooms, Alfred,” suggested
Clarice
But as to that the lad would not commit himself.
His air was still aggressive and important. The name
of the horse was Caesar, he advised. And they didn t
want to get shottin’ things at him and givin’ him sticks
an’ that. All he wanted was a bucketful o’ water.
“I wisht ’e was my horse!” breathed Hannah.
There is no sense of proportion in these infatua-
tions of Hannah’s. It is a discomfiting thing, the
adoration in her coal-black eyes.
“I’ll give ’im is water, Alfred,” volunteered
Norah. But for this honor there was immediate clamor.
“I’ll give youse me pencil-sharpener if you’ll let
me,” bargained Grace.
Only Ruth, lazily toeing herself on the swing,
seemed quite careless of the issue. Were I so gifted
I would paint Ruth as I remember her that morning,
flecked with the sunshine that filtered through the
quince-tree, delectably demure. Even the boy Inskip
seemed to find the picture provoking. Something in
Hannah’s eyes, a dark intentness, a palpable girding
to decision, told me that here was the bestower of
the locust.
“I’ll give youse me brooch,” she said.
“What’d 1 be doin’ wi’ brooches?” sneered the
lad.
But he subjected it to inspection—a blue-
enamelled brooch in the semblance of a ship, which
1 had more than once remarked on Hannah’s bosom
—and of a sudden transferred it to the bulging region
of his trousers.
“You got a lot o’ marbles, ’aven’t you, Alfred?
flattered Joyce.
With them he had at home he had a lot, said
Alfred. With them he had at home, opined the lad,
redistributing, this drag upon his system, he bet he
had a hundred. He bet he had a gross. A gross
wasn’t nothin’.
“It’s like y’r twelve times,” commented Barbara.
“We’re goin’ into fractions, Alfred.”
Fractions wasn’t nothin’, he declared; neither
wasn’t aljibrer ’n’ euchre. If he wanted he could
play it, he pronounced with reference to his mouth-
organ. He bet if he wanted he could lob a fir-cone
on the laundry.
A growing boastfulness informed his manner;
one noted again that opulence of gesture which had
characterised his progress along the Western-road. He
bet if he liked he could lob a fir-cone in the chimbley.
All these feats, one gathered, were but a matter of
the direction of his fancy. There seemed no limit
to his talents. But especially was he skilled in the
more uncommon modes of locomotion, such as the
use of the roller-skate and stilt and swimming under
water: in these and in the science of projection. For
the shotting of masticated paper, failing elastic for a
dinger, he inclined to one of one’s grandmother’s
stay busks.
His markmanship with the latter proved unim-
pressive. Five minutes’ flippings failed to reach Ruth
on the swing.
Convention, I suppose, would preclude a picture
of Ruth poking out her tongue. It struck me that
Alfred welcomed this symbol of defiance, surely a
calculated incitement to a more personal manifesta-
tion of his powers. Quick as he was, it seemed to me
she could have escaped before, by virtue of his
twistings, she became a squealing blue-and-brown
teetotum.
I think she might have welcomed a repetition of
the outrage had it not been for Sister Bingley’s advent
at this point.
“Such screechings! ” chided Sister
Bingley. “And the verandah not
touched, and not a stocking sorted; and
no flowers and the Rector coming!
Quickly now, girls! Never mind about
that bucket, Hannah!”
She regarded with some un-
certainty the newcomer to Mac-
quarie.
“You brought the horse,
Alfred?”
He’d brought him, said the
lad, with a return of that air
of somewhat acrimonious im-
portance. He’d brought him,
but one thing he hadn’t brought
—he hadn’t brought his rug.
“His rug?” echoed
Sister Bingley vaguely. “Just
guinea-golds for Matron’s
room, Lorna. I’ll see about
the roses for the Rector’s.’
“Since ’e’s ’ad gripes,”
explained Alfred, “Mr.
Gamble likes ’im rugged of
a night if it comes on bad
weather.”
But Caesar’s welfare
was a matter in which
Sister’s interest had obvi-
ously languished. More deli-
cate things engrossed her.
“What’s gripes?” inquired Hannah.
She’d soon know what gripes was if ’e got them
proper, said the lad.
DESPITE Sister Bingley’s misgivings, all appeared
to be in order by the time the Rector arrived.
He was descanting on the glory of the lilac when I
joined them in the hall. That it was a fairish show
of lilac I think Mr. Slatterthwaite would have allowed.
It reminded one, said the Rector, of the homeland.
“Thank you, Sister. Just the mackintosh and suit-
case —I’m afraid I’m somewhat mistrustful of our
mountain weather.”
It quite brightened up the hallstand, this mackin-
tosh of the Rector’s —a handsome biscuit-colored gar-
ment, with nickelled eyelets under the armpits and natty
slides for the adjustment of the cuffs.
It is perhaps invidious to refer to the Rev.
Beamish as “the Rector,” for, while he is qualified for
the title, so also and no less is Mr. Tench. And Mac-
quarie is in Mr. Tench’s parish of Greenheath, and
it is at his church that those at Macquarie worship.
But Mr. Tench, to outward appearance, is rather a
negligible person ; speaking figuratively, his voice is
sufficient to condemn him, let alone his niggling little
beard. Mr. Beamish, on the other hand, is an orna-
ment to any drawing-room or pulpit; a splendid man
to borrow for Harvest Sunday or appeals, such as


In spite off rfING
«4RD
«4RO
P
•^r
m
W
=X \N
tfc
\V
\*
Bill
i
*
m
*
<b
%
i
*
v
S
N
I
•S-
-jft
V
r
i
1/
B
I
i
mS
2*=
Its grand to drive a speedy modern car, with powerful brakes, and
get a clear run and a warm Summer day. But you pay the price
with "Tread-Burn"—that destructive tyre-wear aggravated by
speed and Summer's heat.
When you drive at 50 miles an hour your tyres get DOUBLE
the "Tread-Burn" they get at 25 miles an hour!
Again, suppose you're averaging 33 miles an hour and the
thermometer says 90 degrees. Your speed and the heat of the
day is causing THREE TIMES the "Tread-Burn" your tyres would
suffer with the thermometer at 50 degrees!!
In short, SPEED AND HEAT cause "Tread-Burn." But—it's well worth
remembering, if you value mileage— THAT "G-3" BEATS "TREAD-
BURN" —a fact proved by the 43 per cent, (and more) longer non-
skid mileage you get from "G-3."
6 STANDOUT FEATURES-
That make the "G-3" the
finest tyre money can buy
HEAT-RESISTING COMPOUND throughout entire
construction. This reduces the destructive frictional
heat caused by to-day's high speeds.
"G-3" TREAD—flatter and wider, for cooler running
and longer mileage.
ALL-WEATHER TREAD—best-proved non-skid tread
in the world, made still thicker and heavier—more
rubber.
"THE GOODYEAR MARGIN OF SAFETY" for
quickest stopping. The "G-3" has tougher rubber,
slotted deeper to give many more miles of non-skid
safety.
"SUPERTWIST CORD" in every ply to provide
maximum protection against bruises and blowouts.
Exclusive Goodyear feature.
STRICTEST CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS in
the industry—in materials, workmanship, balance
and inspection.
a
I
K
5-C26-33
ĸ


m
■
■ i
m
■ m
m
Ml
■
11
S!-
v
BEALE model V.57.W.
0. finHohij (Rocowoh wMwJui “<B" j oh “Q" ißati&hi&A
THE NEW BEALE BIJOU
Not merely a new piano, but an entirely
new type of piano. Though of ideal
dimensions for the modern home or
apartment the Bijou has a tone equal
in quality and volume to any Baby
Grand.
k
Constructed to give years of trouble-free service.
This 5-valve battery operated dual-wave Superheterodyne is the ideal set for country
use.
Unlike the general run of battery receivers which are equipped with dry "B" and "C”
Batteries for grid and plate potentials, the construction of the Model VS7W eliminates
dry batteries and is operated on the ordinary 6-volt storage battery. There are no
expensive dry batteries that require constant replacement.
This is the first receiver of its kind to run on such low current consumption, viz., .9
amperes instead of the usual 1.l to 1.2 amperes.
The Model VS7W is endowed with remarkable sensitivity on both broadcast (local) and
short-wave (world-wide) bands.
The sturdy chassis employs the latest circuit design incorporating new double purpose
valves and full automatic volume control. The full vision edge-lit airplane dial is
equipped with a new automatic current-saving dial lighting switch.
The first high-grade Battery Receiver not employing "B" Batteries to be presented.
This Model may be obtained in two exclusive cabinet designs—
BEALE RADIO AND PIANOS
BEALE and COMPANY LTD.
177 PITT ST., SYDNEY
OPP. BANK CORNER. HUNTER ST. WEST. NEWCASTLE


to-day’s, for foreign missions. Perhaps a trifle self-
sufficient. Perhaps a little cloying for dinner, tea
and supper. He was to tarry at Macquarie overnight.
Evensong, I confess, he conducted in my absence,
but I attended the morning service, a stimulating
occasion, with special solos by Mr. Tovey and Miss
Gunter, and a special message for young folk. Just
a friendly little discourse. Too often, observed the
Rector, we let unworthy interests obscure our patent
duty to our fellows. Empty and vulgar pleasures, the
fever of material acquisition. Possession, let us
remember, was but fleeting. All property, too, im-
posed a certain obligation ; everything we had, even
our very raiment, was only ours on trust. Only in so
far as we enjoyed it modestly and wisely, with due
regard for the needs of others, was it in any true sense
ours.
An unexceptionable discourse. Some rustling, to
be sure, could be noted in the pews allocated to Mac-
quarie ; some nudging and sighing, some evidence of
that strain inseparable from young animals in cap-
tivity. One could only hope that Mr. Beamish had
made some spiritual contact, effected some redirection
of the purpose of Hannah, Beryl, Grace, Barbara and
the rest.
Three times, counting Sunday-school, did Sister
Bingley steer the crocodile to the fountain. No
wonder her manner in the dormitory was short. (The
Rector’s mistrustfulness had been only too well
founded. It was clearly blowing up for rain.) Sporadic
whisperings still defied her demand for silence. An-
other word from Hannah, said Sister, and she would
be sleeping in the laundry.
This was no hour to be talking about horses.
Horses, indeed!
PERHAPS it was the wind, perhaps the second
helping of Welsh-rabbit, but I did not sleep as
soundly as I do usually at Macquarie. It seemed hours
before I settled, and no time at all between my fading
consciousness of rain lashing on the window and my
waking awareness of voices in the hall. Sister Bingley’s
and the Rector’s; though not just the voice in which
he had solicited our interest in the heathen, a less
mellifluous, a rather unshaven sort of voice.
“You’re quite sure?” inquired Sister Bingley.
He could scarcely have been mistaken, said the
Rector. When he had taken his lozenges from the
pocket just prior to retiring it was hanging on its peg.
“It’s certainly strange,” said Sister Bingley, “but
I don’t I’m just getting it, Matron. If you’ll
excuse me, Mr. Beamish, while I get Matron the
ginger”
On which worried note of promise she departed
precipitately to the kitchen.
“Quickly now!” I heard
her exhort some waiting
courier. “I don’t know what
people want bringing
horses”
I debated while dressing
these evidences of disturb-
ance. It was Beryl, puffed
with ill-tidings, ostensibly
sweeping the back verandah,
who explained to me the sig-
nificance of the ginger, the
gathering in the play-pad-
dock, a ghostly group in the
shifting morning mist. How
the gate had come to be open
was still a matter for conjec-
ture ; it was his discovery of
the poultry feed that had
been Caesar’s undoing. It
needed no expert eye to see
that Caesar had the gripes,
and had them proper. As
Mr. Slatterthwaite observed,
a bucket of water atop a
bellyful o’ wheat weren’t
good for any horse.
How bad it was became
each moment more tragically
patent. So acute was now his
excitement, such his kickings
and rollings, as to make him
impossible of approach, until
of a sudden, as if some spring
in him had broken, he lay
still but for the undulations
of his breathing. And, little
as I know of horses, I knew that Caesar had finished
with the milk-run, was bound for greener pastures.
“I’m dreadfully sorry, Mr, Gamble,” said my
sister-in-law at last.
Mr. Gamble blew his nose and picked up his
hat and jacket; the bucket, the jug in which he had
mixed the salts and ginger, and what at first looked
like a rather dirty piece of sacking.
One did not at once perceive it to be portion
of a garment, with traces of nickelled eyelets under
the armpits and a natty slide for the adjustment of
the cuff.
BREAKFAST had been a depressing meal, but now
the Rector was going and Caesar and his cortege
had departed, and Barbara, Agnes and the others had
long since clattered off to school. All except Hannah.
“Just boldness and badness,” had been Sister Bingley’s
judgment in committing Hannah to the laundry, no
doubt a satisfying judgment to one in Sister’s humor,
but as a comment on an essay in Christian behavior
not perfect, it seemed to me. Already, I fancy, there
stirred in Sister Bingley some compunction. It was
not easy to forget the dreadful dark booing of
Hannah’s weeping, the desolation in her eyes.
It was somehow of Hannah’s eyes I mostly found
myself thinking, not Ruth’s, lovely as they were. And
never more angelic than while awaiting a blessing on
her porridge, fingering the fastening of her collar —
a blue-enamelled brooch in the semblance of a ship.
Of Blackberries, Beautiful Women,
Sharks and Other Things:-
PREDICAMENTS
AND VICISSITUDES
BY LES ROBINSON.
I’ve got you at last!” exclaimed the black-
berry bush exultantly and quivering with carni-
vorous gusto.
And it had, too. Several of its longest, thorniest
and thickest trailers had gripped me in various vulnei-
able places, and others were only waiting for me to
attempt to wrench myself free still more inextricably
to entangle me. To make any such endeavor was,
as I very soon realised, to be torn to pieces.
“I was doing no harm,” I murmured in a tone
of voice suitable for peace conferences.
“You were stealing my berries!” snapped the
blackberry bush.
“I only took one,” I said, trying to sound
abstemious.
“My largest,” said the blackberry bush angrily
and digging its prickles still further into me. “The
pick of this season’s crop. I was saving it for seed.”.
“It was overripe, and would have fallen off any-
way,” I mumbled apologetically.
“Not before I wanted it to,” retorted the black-
berry bush, and then added, so viciously that it made
me wish more than ever that I had brought a pruning-
knife or some other jungle-quelling implement with
me, “It is thefts like yours, the more inexcusable
because they are prompted by gluttony, that help to
prevent us from owning all these paddocks.”
“You are an old offender,” it went on, quivering
with rage and bloodthirsty gusto combined. “I
remember you and your enormous billycan one
autumn afternoon last year. I grabbed you, but the
council’s men had been spraying me with chemicals
and I was not feeling very strong at the time, so you
managed to get away. Not, however, you may recol-
lect, before I had scratched you badly and torn your
pants. This time, berry-filcher, you are here to stay.
Your flesh and blood will provide me with much-
needed nutriment, and, long after that is all gone, your
bleached skeleton, held upright perpetually by these -
inescapable, sanguinary and stiletto-studded tendrils
that now, with felonious zeal, have you in their never-
flagging and painful clutch, will serve to scare the
birds away and as a warning to other berry-thieves.
"I'll really have to announce you now. What did you say your
name was?"
WHAT a predicament to find oneself in on a
glorious midsummer day!
Cows munched placidly in my immediate
vicinity or barged in leisurely fashion through the
surrounding undergrowth. The whole peaceful, sun-
drenched landscape basked drowsily in the shimmering
heat.
Four crows, two hawks and a fish-eagle circled
slowly, ominously and expectantly overhead. Not
far away several Chinamen were at work in their
garden. At the top of my voice I described my
predicament. They gabbled back threateningly and
shook their hoes at me, thinking, doubtless, that I was
merely some hoodlum wantonly insulting them.
Some hours later—l don’t know how many, for
the glass had fallen out of my wristlet watch and a
blackberry tendril was holding its hands —the local
barber (it was a Wednesday afternoon, his saloon
was closed and he was picking blackberries) heard and
recognised my voice. Hacking his way towards me
with a cavalry razor I had left with him to be sharp-
ened, he severed, with those sometimes deft slashes
for which he is notorious, the bloodthirsty trailers that
fully intended to detain me indefinitely, and, unhin-
dered, would undoubtedly have done so. I was then
able to emerge from that excessively tangled and
revengeful wilderness and, though at reduced speed
and not without discomfort on account of the numer-
ous thorn prongs and tips embedded in my flesh and
the many scratches I had received, to add still further
to the meanderish mileage of the day.
ALL was still and silent. Moonlight streamed down.
The visible world seemed steeped in- a trance to
which I myself was gradually succumbing. It must,
I think, have been about midnight, though time itself
seemed standing still, when, I am positive, without
being able to explain why, I saw those two most
beautiful women.
The sleigh they were driving was made of glitter-
ing rock-crystal and jingled, jingled, jingled as it sped
by, and the fourteen reindeer gave no trouble, no
trouble at all. I came to the conclusion that they were
shod with rubber or some other sound-quelling
material, because there was no “clop, clop, clop, clop,
clop, clop, clop,” which, as they were speeding not
across grass, but along an asphalted thoroughfare,
would, if my conclusion was erroneous, have been very
remarkable indeed.
How radiant they were! What effulgence!
Then, without turning a corner, they seemed to
vanish, to vanish utterly. It was astonishing and rather
bewildering, too.
MORE moonlit miles and hours went radiantly
and, until I caught sight of the two trains rush-
ing towards me simultaneously and at breakneck speed
from both ends when I was in the very middle of
the railway bridge on my way across it, peacefully by.
There was only one thing to do. Hastily entang-
ling my typewriter in both shoelaces in order to be
reasonably sure of remaining perpendicular whilst
falling, I dropped between two sleepers and entered in
a resigned state of mind the large hole in the water the
typewriter made.
And now to get rid of that encumbrance. It had
been functioning erratically for some time past, ruin-
ing good foolscap and chewing holes in ribbons at
a rate that exasperated and impoverished me.
Severing, soon after reaching the bottom of the
estuary, the laces with a safety-razor blade I happened
to find in my coat pocket, I abandoned with no regret
whatever that wretched paper and ribbon muncher to
its richly-deserved fate.
When questioned as to the predictable candle-
power of my presumptive phosphorescence by one
of the largest and most luminous jellyfish of a fleet
or shoal in the midst of which, when I rose to the
surface, I found myself, I made an evasive and a
non-committal reply. Rising thereupon, just below
my chin, the big jellyfish squirted a quart or more of
partially-digested seawater into my eyes. Perhaps all
the others, one by one, as a hint that I was not wel-
come among them, would have done the same, but
the tide had now begun to turn, and, as they evidently
intended to accompany it wherever it was going, they
now, to my great relief, focused their attention entirely
upon navigational- matters and, moving off towards
the centre of the estuary where the current was fastest,
passed under the middle arch of the bridge and dis-
appeared downstream.
I found upon inquiry and greatly to my surprise
that I was near the shore. A passing mullet which,
though seeming very nervous, had paused in order to
tell me where the least squelchable mudflat was sub-
merged suddenly in order to avoid a shark that,
anxious, as I erroneously supposed, to join in our
conversation, had paused also.
Sharks are rude, very rude indeed ; in fact, there
are no more ill-mannered fish in the sea. Ignoring my
remark about the undeserved weather but superb tides
we were having, and without even troubling to ask
if I would mind it crept close up behind me and,
before I was aware of its dastardly intention, tore a
large piece of unmatchable cloth out of the back of
my trousers.
A bell then rang inside the shark, and at a speea
which indicated, doubtless, that it had matters of the
greatest importance to attend to elsewhere it dis-
appeared in the direction taken by that most courteous
though neurotic of estuarians the mullet.
| T was not long after —in fact, not nearly long enough
* after —that I found myself inside a massive, sombre
concrete building, its floors, doorways and gates, the
barred and bolted shutters of its thin slits of windows,
its staircases and even the buttons on the tunics of
its stern and accusatory-looking guides or custodians,
all made, apparently, of solid steel.
How I came to be, or why I was, in a building so
cold and cheerless, so metallic, so stark, so forbidding,
so unsuited to the requirements of a person of my
temperament, I really haven’t the faintest idea. Nor
does it serve any useful purpose to persist in subject-
ing oneself to such self-questioning, especially if there
seems a likelihood that correct answers might result
in one foundering beyond diver’s aid, metaphorically
speaking, in one’s own esteem.
In particular, I did not like the irrevocable and
ominous way in which the big steel entrance gates had
clanged behind me. There seemed, indeed, to be
more clangings of steel doors, echoing footsteps and
jinglings of bunches of keys than any reassuring
sounds. Perhaps the jingling of those sleigh-bells was
in the nature of a portent, this much more sinister-
sounding kind its fulfilment.
Perhaps in a philosopher it was unwarranted —
there may even be people who would regard it as
symptomatic of inherent pessimism— yet for some
reason, disquieting even if fanciful, cogent if only
conjectural, I began to feel depressed. -
But presently my spirits rose, for I found myself
opposite a door upon which was inscribed:
GOLD MEDALS FOR EXEMPLARY CONDUCT
DEPT.
» PLEASE ENTER. -
So I was not in the wrong building after all.
“Not that way! Not that way! ” exclaimed one
of the guides or custodians in tones as chilling and
metallic as the buttons of his blue tunic.
My instant and instinctive acceptance of the invi-
tation on the door had, it seemed, antagonised and
incensed him.
I was in the wrong building after all.


GIVE A
Conklin
ĸ
NOZAC
THE PRECISION
WRITING INSTRUMENT.
Judged by any standard,
the Conklin Nozac Pen is
foremost in quality. Among
its many Giftworthy fea-
tures are: Revolutionary
Cushion Point—Self-filling
Device that “Winds Like a
Watch” —New Controlled
Feed —Visible Ink Supply
with Word Gauge—Distinc-
tively Modern Penline
Styling . ..
For Christmas give a
Conklin Nozac —a Gift to
be lastingly valued.
Available in Three Colours,
Black, Green Pearl and
Red Pearl.
Priced at 30/- and 40/-
each.
Pencils to Match, 25/-
each.
Complete Sets in Pre-
sentation Cases, 55/-
and 65/
Use Conklin Fountain
Pen Ink.
The right Ink for every
Pen—All Colours—l/-
per Bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
No Hies
in the .
Soup!
g;
Or
Anywhere
else
IF YOU USE
INSKTIBANE
For Fleas on Dogs, Lice on Poultry, Thrips on Roses, Flies
in the Room; IN FACT, for killing all Insects, use
1.N.5.E.C.T.1.8.A.N.E
Give him a
WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR!
mm
Made in England
E 7 Self-stropping Razor, complet
with strop and two hollow-groum
blades in neat oak case .... 14/1
El 2 Self-stropping Razor, complete
with strop and two hollow-ground
blades in nickel-plated case ..18 6
E 10 — Same as E 7, but with five
hollow-ground blades 18 6
E2l-—Highly-finished silver-plated
self-stropping razor with seven
hollow-ground blades, one for each
day of the week, and shell horse-
hide strop, complete in chased
chromium-plated case .... 37 O
Obtainable from all Stores
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
103 York Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Woolpressing.
“Murrawong”: “Birre Gurra” is
rather drastic in his attack on false bot-
toms in wool presses (B. 25 /11 / ’36).
Since bale-fasteners displaced the sewing-
needle the advantages of the short square
bale for loading and stacking have been
recognised. These may be done in a big
press without using a false bottom, but
the latter makes pressing easier, as the
farther the spear comes down the shorter
becomes the distance between pulleys,
and with a thick wire rope it is the last
few inches that take the juice out of
the pressers.
Tearing of bales is mainly due to the
way the pack is fixed in the box. To
turn out a neat square bale, the bottom
seams should hang an inch above the
press floor. The higher it swings the
rounder the bottom and the longer the
bale, with the disadvantages that it ■ is
difficult to stand on end and takes up
extra room in the truck. When the pack
is fixed so high in the box that the pack
and not the bottom of the press has to
take the pressure, the flaps' must either
slip or tear.
With some types of press only a short
panel on top can be removed, instead of
the entire side of the bale being exposed
for pinning, and a false bottom is needed
to raise the bale and allow it to be
quickly and securely pinned.
The height of the false bottom can be
overdone. It should never be so high as
to necessitate packs being cut down at
the corners, provided that the packs are
not an oversewn type.
I have found that every good presser
has his own set methods, and if his
routine is interfered with it leads to
mistakes, bad workmanship and strained
relations. If a presser knows his job
leave him alone. If he wants to use
a false bottom let him have it. If
none is available, the same results can
be obtained by piling new packs in the
bottom of the press.
Footrot.
“Sheepo”: Treatment for footrot fails
in most cases because the dressing solu-
tion used doesn’t get to the seat of
trouble. Hence running sheep through
a foot-bath isn’t always effective.
Paring is essential, and trimming
should be done if the hooves are long,
even though lameness is not evident.
Sheep should be allowed to stand in the
solution for at least half an hour, to
ensure complete penetration. After dry-
ing, the sheep can be turned bush, pass-
ing through a race containing lime on
their way, though bad cases should be
kept back and treated until cured.
I’ll back the old-time foot-bath solu-
tion—copper sulphate.—against other
“I s'pose YOUR kids'll soon be goin' to school, Mrs. Thompson?"
remedies. Except in bad cases it will do
the job if the pared feet of the sheep are
allowed to stand in it long enough.
Sheep-dipping Hints
Best time for dipping is from
four to six weeks after shearing, when
enough wool has grown to hold the dip.
If too short, the wool will dry almost as
soon as the sheep leaves the dip ; if too
long, the dip may not get to the skin.
A calm, cloudy, moderately warm day
is ideal for the work. Searching winds
can have a greater drying effect than a
hot sun. Sheep should be run into a
handy yard a few hours before starting
to give them time to cool; heated wool-
lies readily catch chills. Late-afternoon
dippings should be avoided, also on ac-
count of chills, which cause more after-
dipping deaths than does anything else.
The wool should be dry. Damp or
wet it will let little dip soak in, and
any that does will be diluted. The sheep
should be kept in the dip long enough
fer the mixture to give the skin a thor-
ough soaking, and the beast's head
should be pushed under once or twice.
After being allowed to drain well, the
sheen should be placed in another yard
until fairly dry—preferably a place with
a clean wooden floor. If no draining pen
is used, there should be no kind of feed
in the yard or paddock in which the
sheep are placed; poisonings occur
through sheep eating herbage on which
dip mixture has dripped.
A,, ... , , ~ ,
Three dippings, two to three weeks
apart, give best results. If powder dips
are first made into a paste they will mix
much more readily with the water,
Bungled Markets,
“Wundi”: Australia, which bans M.L.
potatoes, has thousands of acres that
CO uld grow potatoes but which now
g ro w very little. If Australian potato
lands were treated intensively as Euro-
pean and American lands are, so as to
double the present wretched yield of
a bout 2\ tons to the acre, prices might
be kept down permanently to a level at
which M.L. murphies would have no
chance of competing. Anyhow, if M.L.
growers can dig their potatoes, carry-
them to port, ship them 1400 miles of-
so to Sydney, pay Australian charges and
still knock the Australian market, there
seems to be something radically wrong
with the Australian grower or his selling
organisation. M.L. potatoes are usually
pounds dearer per ton: last week, Aus-
tralians in Sydney were £l4 to £2O ; in
Auckland the price was £25.
On the other hand, M.L. does not
grow oranges and hasn’t a ghost of a
phance of growing them. Permission to
™P° rt 12 . 000 ° f sel f e,:l Australian
fruit was granted last week—a temporary
Q f t h e m.L. embargo on these lines
happens every now an dthen. The las
happens every now and then. The last
week of November, N.S.W. oranges were


You may travel to
TASMANIA
by a 20,000-ton ship this
summer
I
fiARyJ* m
J
'X
NATIONAL
Information and tickets from
Tasmanian Government Tourist
Bureaux in all Mainland States.
new JUi&k nvaheJr
POWDER
EASY TO USE
Dentists know that
POWDER cleans
teeth better than
anything. Calvert's
Tooth Powder comes
to you in an Airflow
Flask, a new kind
of package which is
ever so much easier
to use than ordinary
tins or tubes.
F. C. Calvert & Co.. Ltd.
England.
SiUjt
IVJ
EASY TO USE
k
k
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
HERE'S YOUR GREATEST
b/wjjU Kmlde/i
as
v/
H-T- 85-30 56
because it
gives you
LOWER
RUNNING
COSTS
• Sturdy ARMOURED
WALLS protect the tread
and casing.
• Twin BEAD WIRES give
greater stability on rims.
• Greater CONSTRUCT-
IONAL STRENGTH en-
sures more miles of safe
service.
ck
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
.the strongest toughest truck tyres money can buy
6s. to Bs. per bushel case (counts 113 to
150) and 232- to 250-count cases went as
low as 3s. 6d, Yet in M.L. the Govern-
ment had to interfere to help consumers
in a market in which up to 68s. per case
had been bid for nigger-grown Jamaican
fruit. Retail, 150-count oranges in Wei-
lington, Christchurch and Dunedin were
selling for 3d. each under a price-fixing
order, and the maximum wholesale price
had been fixed at 325. 6d. by agreement
with importers—that is, at about three
times the price at which Australian
oranges could be sold in Auckland.
Sheep in the N.T.
“J. Rankine”: “Walkabout’s” com-
ment that the “Barkly has still to prove
itself” as sheep country (B. 25/11/’36)
is somewhat ambiguous. It is about the
last country I would pick, and the result
of the Avon Downs experiment should
satisfy most.
Although the country looks exactly
like the downs of C.Q., the nutritive
value of the Barkly grasses, when dry,
was found to be low. They will
keep strong dry sheep going, but are not
up to the mark for breeding ewes.
Avon Downs ran from 50,000 to
70,000 sheep. Hundreds of miles of
wire fencing, as well as yards and a big
wolshed, were put up. A lot of money
was spent in building dams, putting
down bores and erecting tanks and wind-
mills. Fortunately, the station ran about
14,000 head of cattle, and they almost
earned enough to balance the losses in-
curred through the sheep,
If a big company with the capital to
make the best possible start and reserves
to carry over lean years can’t make a
success of it, a selector would have no
hope of even paying interest,
Inaccessibility of markets also seri-
ously disqualifies the Barkly as sheep
country. It is excellent for cattle, but
even as such is languishing for want of
convenient selling outlets.
There are hundreds of better sheep
propositions available within a reason-
able distance of established markets,
wbere a man can . rai ? e a with
some . prospects °f civilised comforts and
arn emties.There are millions of acres of
land 111 distrlcts with a good rainfall,
ru / 1 - n [ n ® sheep to the acre and less,
whlch under pasture improvement could
cai T y at least three times as many stock
ai l d Wlth better results and more cer '
tamty '
Wheat tor oheep.
“Rom Ney”; T. Heane has 2600 acres
near Narromine (N.S.W.), four sheep to
five acres in its natural state. By feed-
ing wheat grain to merino ewes lambing
to Border Leicester rams, he marks
nearly 3000 lambs a year.
Heane claims the following advantages
from feeding wheat: No need to drench
for worms ; less trouble with fly; better
wool, longer in staple; sheep quieter
and better doers ; pastures spelled and
not flogged out; many natural grasses
that had disappeared have come back.
Beef-raising on Farms.
“Hubback”: The Australian farmer
will one day realise that beef-raising
can be made to pay on an average farm.
There is, for example, scarcely a famous
Shorthorn farm in Scotland bigger than
the average large Australian dairy farm.
Largest I saw there was about 600 acres,
and it, like most of the others, had
several interests besides beef.
With a good stock bull there should
be little difficulty in breeding up a run of
early-maturers on any sound N. S. Wales
dairy-type coastal farm, particularly
where the old Illawarra blood prevails—
it has a lot of the Bates strain in it. The
bull should be selected to match the cows
and the district.
Feeding needs to be thorough, but not
overdone. It is important that calves
should not be allowed to slip back after
weaning; but forcing with heating foods
causes dryness of coat and bad health
in any young beast.
Experience would soon show how long
it takes to put on market condition and
bloom.
The fat-yearling trade could be made
as profitable as the fat-lamb trade if
mixed farmers tackled the job in the
right spirit.
Bracken and Stock.
“Pappamosca”: Anybody tried rais-
ing pigs on bracken as a regular
thing? In England I noticed around the
southern Surrey and north Sussex
borders that some farmers deliberately
put their pigs among the young fern,
where the grunters seemed to have a
great time digging for the roots.
In that frugal land the fronds—which
the animals did not touch—were cut and
stacked, and made good clean bedding.
The bracken was gradually cleaned out
altogether by the rooters and the land
was then put to more profitable uses.
I’m told that in the Burragorang Valley
(N.S.W.) pigs, running at large like cattle,
are partial to bracken roots.
“Trebor”: “Agamemnon” errs in say-
ing it is only when young that bracken


JTtfTfyxilletz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
'*1)0
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
When ordering shoes be sure
also to order correct Abbey
Polish. Made for black, tan
and dark tan shoes. Also a
special polish for patent
leather.
Write for a Catalogue.
Fashion still
favors the
square toe
FOR MEN
MOST fashions come and
go; in to-day, out to-
morrow; but the broad,
square toe seems here to
stay.
Men realise that for com-
fort and appearance this
style is unsurpassable.
Made in Black Box Calf and
Brown Willow Calf in full
and half sizes with medium
and wide fittings.
PRICE 39/6
316 GEORGE STREET
224 PITT STREET
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
,%WSSPw • *
■ 'mm ■
fi
SCHUTE
BEU.eC?™
t]k
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
20th Century Miracle.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
R.D.L. LEVER
EVERLASTING WATCH
Unbreakable —— Shockproof
>'on-magnetic and Accurate.
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
Against Constructional Faults, and
Oiled Free Every Twelve Months.
Built to Stand a Knock or Fall.
POST
FREE
12
11
10
2
LEVER
9
8
Ur
7
5
USED BY 60,000 PEOPLE.
R. Dixon Long, Designer and Director of the
World-famous R.D.L. Wonder Watches, so
successfully used and recommended by 60,000
people during the past 11 years, now offers you
this marvellous Everlasting Watch as the acme
of Perfection in a dependable timepiece.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
R.D.L. Watches, designed by an Aus-
tralian, were first introduced in 1025 and
are still supreme.
Recommended for Farmers, Tram, Rail,
Police and Businessmen.
The R.D.L. LEVER is everlasting because it is
built of standardised interchangeable parts. As
one part wears, so it can be replaced at a very
low cost, making the life of the watch indefinite,
everlasting. It is also shockproof (virtually
unbreakable), having special shock absorbing
features introduced into the expert construction
of the movement.
Pocket Size, Plain Dial 17/6
Pocket Size, Luminous Dial 207-
Lady’s Service Wristlet Size 20/-
Gent.’s Large Service Wristlet .... 20/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (small round
nickel case), Luminous 25/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (nickel
cushion shape case), Luminous . . 30/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (9et. gold-
lllled cushion case), Luminous .. 437-
Lady’s Gold-filled and Solid Gold
Dress Wristlets (jewelled)
45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Obtainable only from
R.D.L. WONDER WATCHES,
Est. 1917. It. Dixon Long, Director,
Fourth Floor, Cromwell Buildings,
oor-xr St.. Melb., C.l, Vic.
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OP TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. B. f 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
b.
I
Sheet
n metal
I STAMPING
MACHINERY
m\
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
• O lie o
k
R«pre»»ntativei;
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melboums,. Adelaide,. Pertfc.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTn Kino St.. Sydney
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” take you?
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote . °
price for the original.
is fatal. The poison is in the sap, and
though this is more plentiful in new
fronds, older fronds have their share.
Cows, horses and pigs, however, rarely
eat bracken fronds. Far more serious
losses have been sustained through their
eating leaves and flowers of grass-trees
(Xanthorrea hastilis ). This quickly
causes blindness, and the animal becomes
too weak to stand.
From the Glass House coast (Q.)
come many reports of losses among
herds through their eating the long green
shoots of black mangrove. One man has
lost over 30 head.
Bacon Pigs in Drought.
“Beelzebub”: Drought has played
havoc with bacon piggeries in districts
near the tropics; many factories have
complaints about the condition in which
animals are arriving. The causes are often
lack of pasture and sty foods so dear
that harassed producers skimp feeding.
Yellow meat and fat that behaves like
whale blubber in the chiller and which is
unsuitable for comparatively dry soft
goods are. among the results.
Also, owing to scarcity of maize and
other similar foods, many feed their
pigs with peanut's —all right for breed-
ing stock ‘ and young stores, but
quite unsuitable during the topping-off
stage. Root crops, separated milk,
lucerne (not to be overdone), pumpkins,
a bit of pollard and meatmeal are best
when maize is scarce. Meatmeal is the
best substitute when milk is short.
The best plan under present' condi-
tions is to lay out a careful ration. There
is no economy like that which saves
food ; and there is no better and more
profitable way to save food than to
give the right food at the right time to
bring pigs to market condition as early
as possible.
Milking the Heifer.
“Melba”: The first milking is the
crucial one with all cows. It’s easy to
spoil the best youngster in the work by
rough handling in the beginning. Every
heifer should have her teats gently
stroked in the early days of milking. And
the tenderer the udder or the more sensi-
tive the animal, the more patient should
the milker be. A little cream used as a
lubricant helps to soothe a hard, sore
udder.
Milking should be done slowly and
smoothly. Quick, nervous, impatient
action makes for irritated cows, and so
does wrong finger action that sends milk
accidentally upwards instead of down-
wards.
Teaching heifers to stand is sometimes
one of the hardest of jobs, but it is not
nearly so difficult if you get on friendly
terms with your milker. A little time
spent on scratching the lady’s forehead
and educating her to move at a touch
when she gets herself into a bad position
pays for itself.
For several years I had the annual
job of posing a few hundred cows to be
photographed on showgrounds. What
struck me most was the surprising
number of owners who could do nothing
with their animals and how responsive
those animals were to decent treatment,
in contrast to their obstinacy when
handled by the “put-your-blanky-foot-
back” school of hoof-kickers to which
their owners as often as not belonged.
Potash for Pineapples.
“Bris”: A pineapple experimental plot,
laid down on the Palmwoods (Q.) farm
of G. F. R. Nicklin in October, 1934,
was recently harvested. The main object
of the experiment' was to test value of
potash, and the fruits from the potash-
treated sections were superior in size,
flavor and flesh color to those of the
other sections. To arrive at the value
of the fruit harvested, the factory basis
of 4s. 6d. per case was used. The re-
sults were:
Plot A: No fertiliser —125 pines, 5f cases,
value £1 ss. lO^d.
Plot B: Incomplete mixture, without
potash—l 43 pines, 9 cases, £2 os. 6d.
Plot C: Complete mixture 10-6-10, potash
as muriate —230 pines, 18£ cases, £4
6s. I+d. . , ,v
Plo't D: Similar to C, but with potash
as sulphate —306 pines, 22} cases, £5
Os. Hd.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: My favorite rat-
fixer: Mix equal quantities of cement
and pollard, and leave the mixture neat
a saucer or shallow tin of water. A
drink after the meal settles the rodent.
“X.N.”: Gummed eyes in piglets is
usually due to cold, and best treatment
is to wash with a one-in-twenty boracic
acid solution. A few minutes after
bathing smear on a little lanoline.
“J.W.”: An excellent ration for a test
cow is about 301 b. corn silage with all
the lucerne hay the animal will take. To
this add a mixture of equal parts corn
and oatmeal in proportion of lib. mix-
ture to every 3ilb. test milk. With a
heavily-producing cow lib. linseed meal
in addition will help. The concentrate
ration should be built up to full quan-
tities gradually.
“Rusticus”: In rack-feeding baled
grass hay to sheep, 4in. mesh Cyclone
wire allows the woolly to get his
nose through and no more. A false
bottom of lin. board and 2in.-square
uprights 4ft. high at each corner give
the framework for the. wire. A 10ft.
sheet of galvanised iron, the same width
as the rack (3ft. 6in.), makes adequate
shelter from sun and rain. The cost of
the materials (new) is under £2 in coastal
districts. The rack will hold eight aver-
age-size bales, or over half a ton of
clover hay. When filling, loosen the hay
a little after taking off the tie-wire.
“Weylands”: Concrete in dairies and
piggeries frequently becomes pitted and
deteriorates rapidly from the effects of
the lactic acid content of milk. To prevent,
mix one gallon of waterglass with four
gallons of water (enough for about 30
square yards), make a smooth finish and
when the concrete will bear a man’s
weight apply the solution with a water-
ing can. Only as much as the concrete
can absorb should be applied at one
diessing. When dry make a second and
a third application. Dairies and pig
troughs badly pitted should be thor-
oughly scrubbed with hot water and
soap before treating, the surface being
allowed to dry and the solution then
applied.
“Nabawa”: Here’s a tip from a Bar-
medman (N.S.W.) farmer on the fringe
of the skeleton-weed belt. While strip-
ping his wheat, he keeps a watch for the
pest, and throws an empty wheat-bag on
every plant he sees. Then he sends out a
boy to explore the stubble and root out
all plants marked by bags. He has kept
the pest down so far.
“H.F.J.”: Notwithstanding the drought,
W. Maynard, of Doonside, Malakoff,
collected a £lOl cream cheque for
October from the Dalby (Q.) butter fac-
tory. His herd consists of 70 Australian
Illawarra Shorthorns, and throughout the
winter he averaged between £9O and
£lOO a month for his cream. That on a
rainfall which from the beginning 6f the
year to date has been only Min. The
secret is feeding the cows on wheat dur-
ing winter.
“The 0.D.”: Dave Kelly, of Quan-
dialla (N.S.W.), chaffed 75 tons of cereal
hay and fed it to sheep this season. Add-
ing a supplementary ration he was able
to increase his stock by 1000, maintain
ewes in good condition, and keep lambs
going without check. Extra money from
wool and lambs gave him a return of £7
a ton net for the chaffed hay.
“Pack-bag”: A pest that overruns
much river frontage country in western
N.S.W. is wild tobacco bush (Nicotina
glaucri). After the ’3l flood most of
Tammit’s (Lower Murray, N.S.W.) rung-
box plains became a forest of this bush,
choking out grasses and harboring
rabbits. It was so thick in places that
we had to slash tracks through it to
allow stock to pass. Before 1931 the
run had just recovered from the crop
following the T 7 record flood. Like
most plant pests, this one was intro-
duced into the back country to orna-
ment gardens.
“Lex”: Guyra is the latest N.S.W.
country town to become, with Albury,
Newcastle and Goulburn, a wool-selling
centre. The first sale held there, attracted
Bradford, Continental, American and
Australian buyers, and all 650 bales
offered were sold, bringing over £15,000.
The average for the sale was 19.3 d.
Some Sydney woolbrokers have sug-
gested that country sales would limit
competition and benefit only the local
dealer, but evidently the New England
woolgrowers don’t think so. Bales are
pouring in for the next sale in the middle
of December, and about £25,000 worth
of wool cheques is likely to be dis-
tributed through the district before
Christmas.


ADAMS’ (T ATT KRsALL’S) HOTEL
259 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Is Arranging a
10/6
SPECIAL XMAS DINNER
12.30 till 2.30 p.m.
JO/6
Which will be je celebration worthy of the occasion, and suggest you make vour
Reservations at once. Call, write or ’phone—M46ol. *
XMAS TEA—A LA CARTE-5.30 pm. t0%.30 p 3£ RT ’ Manager ‘
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq. G.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (f ederal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
■^o^K^oners_the_nill6st^facilit ies for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Totally incapacitated returned soldier would
welcome reading matter, used magazines or
English weeklies. —3843.
Digger pensioner, N.S.W., single, wants job
keeping down pests, hares, rabbits, etc. —3838.
Pan-sampler on small goldmine, S.A., de-
sires to improve his position. Offers invited.
—3891.
Experienced jackeroo, 18£ (N.S.W.), wants
job on Queensland station. Refs.—3909.
Young Canadian, to arrive in Australia next
year, would appreciate a letter giving instruc-
tion and advice from an Australian. —A. N.
MacDonald, 383 Metcalfe-avenue, Westmount,
Montreal, Canada.
To buy Memories of an Old Savoyard, by
Sir Henry Lytton.—3853.
Words of monologue ending “The mill will
never grind with the water that is past.”—3854.
Information Sought.
(1) How many runs have been scored by
England and Australia in Test matches? (2)
What Australian XI in England has the best
record in all matches ? (3) What were Chipper-
field’s bowling figures in England with Wood-
full's 1934 team?— 3872.
(1) England: 60,698 runs for 2138 wickets,
average 28.39; Australia: 60,155 runs for 2223
wickets, average 27,06. (2) There’s only a
fraction between Armstrong’s 1921 team, which
played 38 matches, won 22, lost 2, drew 14,
and Darling’s 1902 team, which played 39, won
23, lost 2, drew 14. (3) 228.3 overs, 53
maidens, 695 runs, 15 wickets—average 46.33.
* sjc * *
Was Brown’s batting against England at
Sydney recently the slowest scoring ever seen
in first-class cricket? —3863.
No, Alec Bannerman, at Melbourne,
in January, 1892, spent 8| hours
making 86 runs —4 hours for 45 runs
in the first innings and 4 \ hours for 41
runs in the second innings; M. A.
Noble, at Manchester (Eng.), took 3hr.
smin. to score 60 not out in the first
innings, and shr. 20min. to make 89
in the second innings. Englishman
W. H. Scotton, at Adelaide in 1884,
was 6 hours scoring 82, and at The
Oval (England) was 3J hours making
34. Brown’s performance was 71 runs
in 4hr. 19min.
Pronunciation of the name of the racehorse
Wotan?— 3Bo7.
Accent on the first syllable and the “o”
long as in “woe.”
* * * *
Brief particulars of Jimmy Governor’s career,
and date of execution ? —3806.
While employed on Brelong station, N.S.W.,
Jimmy Governor, in company with his brother
Jqe and two other blacks, attacked and killed
his employer’s wife, Mrs. Mawbey, her three
children, Grace, Percy and Hilda, and a school-
teacher, Miss Kerz, who was boarding at the
station. The brothers disappeared into the
mountains, the next heard of them being news
of the murder of an old couple named McKay,
followed by that of Mrs. O’Brien and child and
of an old man named Fitzpatrick. Governor
was declared an outlaw, and he and his brother
were run to earth, Joe being shot dead and
Jimmy captured. The latter was executed
Friday, June 18, 1901.
* * * *
What became of the s.s Makarini, which in
1912 was carrying emigrants from London to
Melbourne? —3772.
The ship, formerly of the Tyser line, became
later the Port Nicholson, of the Commonwealth
and Dominion line, and was sunk by mines off
Dunkirk in January, 1917, while bound from
Sydney to London.
* * * *
Date and location of wreck of the s.s.
Pericles, also of the s.s. Orizaba? —3763.
The Pericles (Aberdeen White Star line) in
March, 1910, struck an uncharted rock off Cape
Leeuwin, W.A., and was lost. The Orizaba
(P.S.N. line) was lost off the Westralian coast
in February, 1905.
* * ?. %
Some biographical particulars of Paul Robe-
son, and address? —3846.
Paul Bustill Robeson was born April 9, 1898,
at Princeton, New Jersey, and educated at Rut-
gers College and Columbia Uni. In 1923 he
acted Jones in O’Neill’s play “Emperor Jones,”
later appearing in “All God’s Chillun,” “Show
Boat” and a number of other productions;
in England he played Othello in the Shak-
spearean play. He has also toured England,
Europe and America giving concert perform-
ances, chiefly as an interpreter of negro
spirituals. His residence is given as 19 Buck-
ingham-street, London, and his address as care
of the Metropolitan Bureau, 113 W. 57th-street,
New York. He is married, and has one son,
Paul.
=f= * * *
What is the meaning or intention of Sibelius’s
overture “Finlandia” ? —3885.
Intention evidently is to express Finland, and
the means employed is the use of folk-song themes
or themes of folk-song character, the orchestra-
tion suggesting the singing of these by lusty
peasant voices. Like Grieg, Sibelius is a com-
poser whose work mirrors not only the charac-
teristic music but the scenery and atmosphere
of his native land. Hence the presence of
melodies of graceful line and haunting beauty
in conjunction with what one commentator calls
the “wet blacks and greys” of Sibelius’s har-
mony.
* * * *
What is the amount of the old-age pension
per fortnight, and what amount may pensioners
earn without affecting pension? —3832.
The maximum rate of old-age pension is
38s. per fortnight. A pensioner’s income, in-
cluding all pension, must not exceed £Bl 18s.
per annum. The value of board and lodging
supplied to a pensioner is income within the
meaning of the Act. A pensioner on the maxi-
mum rate may have an income of £32 10s. per
annum in addition to pension.
* * * *
Particulars of the Parliaments of Northern
and Southern Ireland respectively? —37B3.
Parliament of Northern Ireland: First met
June, 1921, being opened by the King. It
consists of a Senate of 26, 24 of whom are
elected, and a House of Commons of 52
elected members. It has power to legislate for
its own area except in matters of Imperial con-
cern, and executive power is vested in the
Governor, appointed by the King for a six-
yearly term. Parliament of the Irish Free State:
First met September, 1922, to adopt a Consti-
tution ; on December 6, 1922, was established
by Royal Proclamation. The Legislature con-
sists of a Senate and a Chamber of Deputies,
“Mother says if I'm a good girl shell let me have quintuplets for
Christmas!"
the executive composed of a Council of not
more than 12 nor less than five Ministers, mem-
bers of the Chamber; the President of the
Council is nominated by the Chamber, and he
nominates other members of the Council. The
King is represented by a Governor-General.
The Senate is limited to 60 members, but the
number of Deputies is fixed on a population
basis.
% 3: * *
What is the scientific name of the red marks
on the skin called “port-wine stains" ? Cause
and treatment? —3B6o.
They are known as ntevi, and are essentially
tumors composed of small blood-vessels, situated
in the skin itself. They are due to , a congenital
overdevelopment of the cutaneous vessels, and
not, as formerly believed, to some prenatal in-
fluence upon the mother. The diathermy needle,
carbon dioxide snow and X-rays are all used
in treatment according to the size and location
of the tumors.
'l' V *!•
(1) Cause of sciatica ? (2) Good home
remedy? (3) Is acetic acid of any value in
treatment ? (4) Electrical baths ? (5) Is sciatica
curable ? —3827.
(1) It is due to inflammatory changes in the
sciatic nerve and its sheath. These may follow
damage, such as a violent stretching movement,
repeated friction of the nerve against the bony
parts, as in stooping, or from prolonged pres-
sure against the hard edge of a chair. Local
infections about the pelvis and chemical or
bacterial poisons circulating in the blood are
also active causes. (2) There is no reliable
home remedy except the application of heat.
(3) No. (4) Frequently give relief. (5) Cures
have followed injections of harmless fluids into
the nerve-sheath, and manipulations produc-
ing stretching are useful in long-standing cases.
Complete rest in bed for some weeks is often
remarkably effective.
* * * *
How can warts be removed from the back of
a child’s hand? —3Bs6.
Simplest way is to snip them off with scis-
sors. All the warts should be treated at one
sitting, and if freezing methods are used the
pain is trifling. Freezing with carbon dioxide
snow is remarkably 'successful. Salicylic col-
lodion (strength—one drachm to the ounce)
may be applied daily; this gradually destroys
the thickened skin. X-rays are exceptionally
effective. Sometimes the warts disappear when
arsenic (one-eighth of a minim of the liquor in
two drachms of water) is given internally three
times daily. Epsom salts may also be taken
(five grains in a little wafer after meals) and
used in saturated solution to paint the warts.
For isolated warts the diathermy needle is very
effective.
* * * *
Method of mixing sulphur and treacle with-
out lumps ? —3456.
Place the treacle in a vessel and set it in the
oven to warm, so that it becomes thin. Crush
all lumps from the sulphur and add it gradu-
ally to the treacle, stirring and blending with
the back of the spoon until it is a smooth,
thick mass.
* * * *
(1) Easiest and most satisfactory method of
striking flower cuttings ? (2) Suitable plants ?
—3740.
(1) Make boxes 2ft. long by 12in. wide and
6in. deep, put in stones or crocks for drainage
and add soil to within 2in. of the top. Set
cuttings and cover with glass. Earthenware
pots are also suitable; placed in new manure
to generate heat they soon force cuttings
to root. Soil should be baked or saturated
with boiling water before being used to kill
weeds. (2) Carnations, fuchsias, heliotrope,
salvia, snapdragons, petunias and penstemons;
also coleus and leaf-plants for greenhouses.
* * * *
Recipe for the Mexican dish Chile con
Came ? —3409.
Boil haricot beans until tender, strain, and
save the liquor; place beans in a large baking
dish. Fry small pieces of garlic in butter, and
add chopped fresh red chillies to be lightly
browned in the pan; add all this to the beans
and mix. Add also small pieces of meat or
chicken from left-overs, or uncooked meat
freshly fried a light brown. Make a flour
sauce with the bean liquor, season with pepper
and salt, and pour over the contents of the
baking dish. Sprinkle the top with rough
breadcrumbs and small pieces of chilli, and
bake about an hour if cooked meat is used;
longer if fresh meat is included. May be
eaten either hot or cold. When cold, cut into
slices for sandwiches. Pepper and salt are
added to the various items as they are
assembled.
* * * *
Recipes for curry wafers, crepe suzette,
Melton Mowbray pie and Scotch oat cakes ?—
3422.
Curry wafers: 2oz. butter, one large cup s.r.
flour. Rub well together and add pepper, salt,
cayenne and one teaspoon curry powder. Mix
to a stiff paste with one beaten egg, roll out
thinly, cut into fingers and bake a light brown.
Crepe suzette: Two eggs, 2oz. butter, 2oz.
fine sugar, 2oz. fine flour, one cup milk. Beat
butter and sugar to a cream, beat in the eggs,
then milk and flour. Stir well and let it stand if
possible. Place on buttered plates and bake in
a quick oven for 20 minutes. Pile high on a
dish, sprinkle with sugar and serve with cut
lemon or preserves. If the batter is allowed to
stand any time add the egg-whites last, whipped
to a stiff froth. Melton Mowbray pie: lib.
flour, ilb. butter, one egg, one gill milk or
water, pinch salt. Sift flour and salt, make a
hole in the middle, and break the egg in.
Put milk and butter on to heat. Mix a little
flour into the egg; then add the hot milk and
butter, and stir up into a paste; roll out and
line round piedish, which should be deep.
For the filling, use pieces of pork, rabbit or
game, chopped parsley and hard-boiled egg.
Fill the pie very tightly, and add enough good
stock to cook the contents. Make a pastry
top, and decorate with cut leaves of pastry.
Put in a very hot oven until the pastry is set,
and then cook slowly until the meats are tender.
With a small funnel, add stock or gravy con-
taining gelatine until the pie is filled; if eaten
cold, this forms a jelly and prevents the pie
from collapsing when cut. May be taken on
picnics or served out of doors cold. All
seasonings must be added to taste when the pie
is being assembled. Scotch oat cakes: 3oz.
butter or dripping, two large cups oatmeal,
4-teacup water. Pour the water boiling over
the butter, mix in the oatmeal, roll thin, cut
square and bake light-brown in good oven.
Brief Answers.
H. 8.: The record attendance for one day ai
the Sydney Royal Easter Show is 181,065;
Melbourne’s record is 76,238 J.C.: Rosacea;
commonly associated with the presence of
dandruff. If this be present, treat scalp with
frequent shampoos and rubbing with a sulphur
and salicylic-acid ointment (any chemist). The
condition of the nose is aggravated by overeat-
ing, especially of highly-seasoned foods, and
by nervous disturbances. The following pre-
paration may be painted on the nose: Precipi-
tated sulphur and calamine, l|oz. of each, gly-
cerine 1 drachm, water 4oz. Shake well and
paint on with a brush T.L.: (1) The Missis-
sippi, with the Missouri, its chief tributary,
is 4200 miles long; Nile, 4020 miles; Yangtze-
kiang, 3500 miles; Amazon, approximately
3500 miles. (2) The Murray, 1500 miles; Mur-
rumbidgee, 1350 miles; Darling, 1160 miles;
and Lachlan, 850 miles J.D.: The world’s
professional running championship is purely a
matter of challenge, there being no regularly-
held competitions. At the last, held in Vic.
early in 1935, Eddie Tolan (U.S.A.), Olympic
champion, defeated Billy McFarlane, the Scot-
tish and Empire champion, and Austin Robert-
son (Australia), holder of the world title. More
detailed information may be got from J. Bull,
secretary Vic. Athletic League, 58 Union-street,
Brunswick, Vic E.D.: You should put in
a claim for compensation, and if granted the
council would no doubt require a conveyance
of the land. This would be at its own cost.
In the event of a subsequent sale probably a
survey would be necessary. The land con-
veyed to the council and the land subsequently
sold would be endorsed on the certificate of
title... .L.K.U.: Shakspeare is computed to
have used a vocabulary of 15,000 words; Milton
used about half as many C.V.A.: Hop-
growing in Victoria is confined practically to
the Eurobin (Ovens River) district, the season
commencing usually towards the end of Febru-
ary. Picking is done by contract, rates varying
from year to year. For details, write to the
secretary, Panlook Bros.’ Hop Gardens, Eurobin,
Victoria... .MJ,: It is used here for refractory
purposes, a limited field. Price probably 355.
per ton to 40s. for highest grade V.T.:
Write Registrar, Widows’ Pensions, Chief Secre-
tary’s Dept., Sydney J.V.: It's in Your
Kitchen, Bertha Parry (3s. 6d.)... .TJ.K.: No.
.... R.D.: “Print Collector’s Quarterly,” 10
Bedford-street, London, W.C.2; sub., 17s. 6d.
P-a A.A.: Douglas Fairbanks, Jun., was
born in 1907. He married Joan Crawford, but
the marriage was dissolved E.F.: The four-
masted barque Falls of Garry, 2088 tons, was
stranded on a reef off New Caledonia, July,
1898. It was refloated a year later, towed to
Sydney and refitted. Voyaging from Port Pirie
(S.A.) to Queenstown (Ireland) it was totally
wrecked on the Irish coast, April, 1911
F.M.: Women’s League of Health and Beauty,
308 George-street, Sydney R.P.H.: (1)
Cannot say. W. Beaumont is no longer in
this line of business. (2) Forward particulars
of your present unit to E. Hallstrom, 462
Willoughby-road, Willoughby, N.S.W.; he will
probably be able to do the recharging. (3)
£3 10s., plus freight and ss. for casing D.C.:
Hygienic Containers, Ltd., Gardeners’-road and
Birmingham-street, Alexandria, Sydney. Prices
per 100 are 7oz. 4s. 6d., Boz. 55., lOoz. ss. 6d.;
cheaper by the thousand; delivered free within
50 miles of Sydney. These are wholesale rates;
retail from Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.,
George-street, Sydney, at about 6d. per dozen.
M.L.: The second Test will be at Sydney,
Dec. 18-23; third at Melbourne, Jan. 1-6; fourth
at Adelaide Jan. 29-Feb. 3; fifth at Melbourne,
Feb. 26-Mar. 3.... J.A.C.: See Vol. II Australian
Encyclopaedia R.S.: Karangi, F. S. Hibble,
(Endeavour Press, 1935; 65.); Burnt Sugar,
F. E. Baume (Macquarie Head Press, 1934;
7s. 6d.); Bracken, Bernard Cronin (Jarrolds,
1931; 7s. 6d.); A House Is Built, M. Barnard
Eldershaw (Harrap, 1930; 7s. 6d.); The Swayne
Family, Vance Palmer (Angus and Robertson,
1934; 65.); Working Bullocks, Katharine Susan-
nah Prichard (Cape, 1936; 7s. 6d.); Tiburon,
Kylie Tennant (The Bulletin, 1935; 7s. 6d.);
Landtakers, Brian Penton (Endeavour Press,
1934; 7s. 6d.); Inheritors, Brian Penton (Angus
and Robertson, 1936; 7s. 6d.); All That
Swagger, Miles Franklin (The Bulletin, 1936;
65.) G.H.D., Number of sheep in N.S.W.
m 1901, 41,857,099; in 1902, 26,649,424....
W.H.S.: No commercial value M.G.E.: The
words and music of “Forty Years On,” the
Harrow School song, can be obtained from
Allan and Co., 276 Collins-street, Melbourne.
G.M.B.: H. S. Carter kept wickets in the
fourth Test match of the 1920-21 series played
m Melbourne—his last appearance in Test
cricket....H.T.R.: See Bulletin No. 16, “Grass
Tree Resin,” obtainable from the Technological
Museum, Sydney; 7d. posted A. 8.: A
license from the Minister for Labor and Indus-
try, Sydney, must be obtained for an employ-
ment agency. Form of application from the
department. Particulars should be verified by a
statutory declaration, and application lodged
with fee of £2. Get from the Government
Printer, Phillip and Bent streets, Sydney, a
copy of the Industrial Arbitration Act, 1912-35,
together with the regulations thereunder, pub-
lished August 2, 1918....5.J.: Write Ocean
Newspapers, Ltd., Wireless House, 47 York-
street, Sydney F.H.: (1) Inquire at the
Probate Department, Supreme Court Buildings,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney; any will may be seen
on payment of Is. 6d., and would disclose the
names of the executors. (2) Money bequeathed
under a will to which no claim has been estab-
lished or made is held in probate for transfer
subsequently to the State Treasurer. A list
of these trust accounts is published from
time to time. Inquire at the Treasury.
• v G.M.K.: A printed form may be used
safely if care is taken with regard to wit-
nessing the testator’s signature (using the usual
formula) and observing the other requirements
stated in the instruction sheet where the testator
makes a simple and comprehensive devise and
bequest, such as “all my real and personal
estate of whatsoever kind to my wife (name in
full).” If you go beyond this you should have
the will drawn up by a solicitor. Home-made
wills are a fertile source of litigation....
J-S.: Victorian Aero Club, Melbourne, is con-
ducting such a competition (Many others
mailed.)


iillllliiliii he lillii:
w
OL
*
M
tj(r
S'*
4kA
■
v>>
v
irf
oX
SHMkthe gift he *eceis&egj
;:»:>n
■
■
V4L
fry
blade
«»v
No, 99 UTILITY SET. —Contains the essentials of a perfect "Valet" shave,
self-stropping Model C Razor, three blades in plated sheath and a m/ *
leather strop in container. The whole in serviceable case. Price ....
OTHER SETS FROM 9/- to 65/- e OF ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
EVERY MAN NEEDS A "VALET." The "Valet" Auto Strop, the
original self-stropping razor, is still the simplest and best. Stropped
in 10 seconds. Cleaned in 10 seconds. Nothing to take to pieces.
Nothing to unscrew. A perfect edge for every shave and weeks
of perfect shaving from every blade.
ĸ
1 Aulo/Sfaop
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OP’FICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. - • • • . • 1,000,000
(Used 'pai-tly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ’..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
■<r -mm
■•#s
>S»gr
mt
H/cl
JESS
11
r”'
it* «¥::>• :;-ai
f. •■-
51?
! **'??**&
3K5&
ssr’MswsWSw
'«SS
»
Be the design classic or modem,
flawless beauty, diamond cut and
sparkle, and exquisite symmetry dis-
tinguish every piece of Stuart Crystal.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold.
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.
3x7-23 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence St., Sydney
Stuart
(Trtjstal
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions'
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.R.M.: It came close J.D.: Didn’t quite
make it P.J.1.: Those buckjumping stunts
are apt to pall J.H.S;; It had several read-
ings, but failed to weather them A.D.; We
liked the Arcadian flavor, but that was all
C. : While unreservedly accepting your
statement that “the Tick Eradication Scheme
through which the Bonalbo-Woodenbong area
is passing has caused a vast amount of indigna-
tion among farmers” we regret we cannot pub-
fish your 160-line poem on the subject
Csesar: Not bad; but it didn’t quite get O.K.’d.
....W.G.: Not much of a parody—in fact,
not much of anything... .E.N.M.: Quite tune-
ful, but it isn’t autumn now. And there's
something in the phrase “magic beak,” applied
to any sort of songbird, that grates
F.R.M.; You broke down in the straight
D. : Get nearer to the persons in your yarns
and you’ll do better... .M.A.: The end has
been used before... .D.T.F.: Nicely told, but
a little thin L.G.8.: Always bumping up
against that one R.R.: Wading through that
merits a New Year knighthood, or perhaps
even a free beer....W.M.M.1.: The trials of
the widow left us yawning... .E.S.: You
promise a roast dinner and offer us canary
seed R.H.: Too rambling; and why don’t
you get a new typewriter ribbon? S.R.:
After carefully assembling your characters you
didn’t know what to do with them G. 8.:
Hope the wedding-cake was not as heavy to eat
as to read about G.W.R.S.; One quart of
tears shed over the romance that never hap-
pened M. 8.: Anti-climax a squib
J.G.8.: Conflict should have been keener, and
you take sides too obviously W.J.H.: No
chance for long-winded yarn of marital dis-
harmony E.W.L.: Pointless and off our
beat... .J.W.S.: “Home, Sweet Home” goes
back there E.M.G.: Not a Bulletin yarn.
J.A.J.: Average crime-story reader would
spot the culprit in one 8.H.: Below stan-
dard K.T.: On a surmise that you are very
young you are forgiven... .D. 1.: Needs the
hand of a “Kodak”... .M.J.L.: Try it else-
where... .8.M.: You haven’t given it a plot,
and it still wanders all over the map Rich:
Not so very, either of them G.V.8.: Not
attracted by any of that lot Rondoryter:
Threat to write one rondeau a week noted,
What have we done to you?... .H.R.R.: Too
far-fetched H.F.: Sentimental bird-fancier
now filling the w.p.b. with his tears.... A.WU..
Not keen on the murderous twins... .E.W. :
You take too long to arrive at the main incj-
dent... .A.S.: No cheque for the timid land-
lady C.H.: A dull satire....G.R.: You
must have been a fervent admirer of Bland
Holt in your early days L.M.: Might suit
a women’s paper... .D.F.L.: Rather confusing.
R.W.: Both are lightweights P.C.: All
right for a business firm’s house-organ. •• •
G. 8.: An English magazine might swallow it.
F.J.F.: Yarns in which detective and friend
(usually a doctor) discuss baffling murder mys-
tery are nowadays in the hackney class....
1.M.: Outed K.McC.: Undernourished
L.T. and H.R.: Not our type T.E.L.:
Might scrape through with stronger ending....
W.J.W.: Indigestible.... A.C.: Misses....
R.W.C.: Opens well, but fades to a shadow
long before the end.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.D.: Tariff-wall cartoon has appeared too
often in print to have any punch... .E.N.:
Cannot say that the labels make them any more
recognisable... .A.W.S.: Jew and kerosene-in-
the-fire-extinguisher gag pensioned off long ago.
... .V.R.: The dispute between Mavis and Joan
is too juvenile for this adult journal... .H.D.:
Picture of Jacky and his bride suggests that
you have been looking at too many portraits
of Abyssinians... .R.L.C.: Clumsy penmanship
and a gag hardly worth illustrating... .8.G.:
Figures carefully posed, but linework is
scratchy W.H.M.: Wash drawings are too
uniformly and drearily grey P.W.8.: We
have chained up the orang-outang until you
call and collect him J.N.: An untidy mess
of blots and smudges... .S.T.J.: Not enough
difference between the concrete gatepost and
the bloke leaning against it C.L.8.: Bush-
fire drawing wasn’t even realistic enough to
send us out for a drink... .G.W.: You are
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 5s. each
on acceptance.
burning the midnight oil to no good purpose.
S.C.: Your sketch suggests that a new
breed of cattle-dog has sprung up west of
Bourke A.L.D.: Dislike gags based on
physical deformities... .0.J.: A collection of
copies; send us something original K.L.:
You might tell us how the giant managed to
get through the d00r... .H. 8.: Drawings betray
an untrained hand; humor as flat as a week-
old beer J.8.M.: No bid for silhouettes
P.S.: Not tempted by that array of skeleton-
like bathing girls W.M.: Make jokes more
crisp, and don’t overcrowd your drawings.
A.E.: Use Indian, not violet, ink and
white drawing-paper, not colored stationery
W.R.C.: Promising though apparently drawn
from photographs G.N.: No discernible
merit in any of the dozen.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Spatient”: Some doctors hear nice
things said about them by anaesthetised
patients (B. 18/11 /’36). A hospital nurse
told me of a lady who had just come to
(in a public ward), and what she said
was: “00-00-er! Isn’t Dr. lovely?”
* * * *
“T.W.N.”: There’s nothing slack
about the business methods of some
“speakeasies” around King’s Cross (Syd-
ney). During one of our celebrations,
we ran out of soda-water, and when I
slipped out for a fresh supply I was
stopped by a gent, from the flats oppo-
site, who had evidently heard the sounds
of revelry. Handing me a business card,
he said, “Excuse me, but if you happen
to run dry you’ll know where to come.!”
On the face of the card was printed his
name and the number of his flat; on
the back was neatly written: “Gin, beer,
wine or whisky.”
* * * ■ *
“Moreton”: At a Labor conference in
Brisbane a delegate spoke at length and
with great vigor without defining his
position. When he sat down the chair-
man asked him: “Are you supporting
the motion or the amendment?” The
delegate replied with dignity: “Mr.
Chairman, I am always prepared to sup-
port anything that will help ‘the move-
ment.’ ” The chairman had to let it go
at that. x
* * * *
“Karaway”: Everybody is familiar
with philatelists, but I met a new variety
the other day—a collector of postmarks.
He had traced a map of N.S.W., and
marked thereon all the towns in the
postal directory. When he got a letter
he carefully cut off the postmark and
pasted it over the name of the town it
came from. His correspondence was
small, but he collected envelopes from
friends and acquaintances, including
clerks in big business places. The post-
marks he particularly valued were those
from obscure places, to which he wrote
on all sorts of pretences. He hoped in the
course of years to have the whole map
covered with postmarks.
* * * *
Dunstan and Argyle swapped compli-
ments during an all-night debate on the
Metropolitan Council Bill. Argyle told
Dunstan he was a wrecker and Labor’s
cat’s-paw; Dunstan retorted that Argyle
was a stonewaller with a sore head. A
Labor member interjected sleepily, “And
you were such pals a while ago!”
* * * *
“K.D.”: It has been estimated that it
takes four tons of coal (as fuel and raw
material) to produce 300 gallons of
petrol. Assuming that these figures
apply approximately to the hydrogena-
tion process, and that a £10,000,000
plant would turn out 50,000,000 gallons
a year, the coal consumed by the unit
would total about 670,000 tons p.a.—
roughly 6 p.c of the present N. S. Wales
output.


“I FEEL LIKE
A DIFFERENT
WOMAN IN EVERY
WAY”..
b says Maisie Carroll
206 Nelson Street
ANNANDALE
k
The Douglas Drug Co
Dear Sirs,
It gives me great pleasure to be able to write
my praises of your "Bidomak". I have just finished
my first bottle and I am now well on the way with my
second. I have had a terrible time of it with ten
abcesses in my right ear, then a germ in my left ear,
which caused me a time of dreadful agony, which was
eventually operated upon. My nerves were in such a
shocking state that I was given a strong nerve tonic, which did not seem to
reach the root of the trouble. My brain always seemed to be in a muddle as I
would walk from the kitchen to get something from my room, but by the time I
reached my room I would quite forget what I went for, which meant that to stop
and think made me feel quite dizzy in the head. My nerves were in such a state
that if anything startled me I would cry bitterly and practically for no
reason at all.
I could not speak to my family as I was so irritable. I lost all interest
in, not only some things, but in everything. I use to lose all my sleep and lay
awake all night, wondering what was going to happen next and it used to worry me
to know that I could not sleep and everybody else in the house was snoring.
Then following all this, I got a nasty pain round my heart, which was as much as
I could bear. I was nearly frantic until one day I thought I would give
"Bidomak" a trial and as I have already stated I am now on my second bottle.
I now eat well, sleep well, have lost the dizzy feelings in my head, lost the
heart pains, can do my knitting and numerous other things of interest which I
had cast aside when my nerves were bad and now I feel like a different woman in
every wav, "thanks to 'Bidomak'" and you, who make it. I intend taking my full
course of "Bidomak" even though I am feeling well again so soon after taking it.
"Bidomak" is the best thing I have had
for the small price of 3/- a bottle and I say
small price because most of the medicines I had
taken previously cost me 4/- and 4/6 a bottle
and did me no good, where the first bottle of
"Bidomak" removed heart pains, dizziness and
commenced building up my body which was so
terribly run-down after all my suffering.
I will be ever ready to praise "Bidomak".
Use this letter as you think fit. No one is
afraid of the truth.
I am,
Xours ever gratefully and faithfully,
NERVES
GET RID OF THEM
this PLEASANT WAY!
Thousands of women are blessing Bidomak
to-day, who once were going about “nervy,”
listless, tired, run down, “jittery,” never feeling
really well, but always half sick. These
nervous disorders robbed them of popularity
because even a beautiful face and figure can’t
make up for “jumpiness,” irritability or lack
of “pep.” The best thing to do is to take
Bidomak, as thousands are doing. Bidomak
will put roses in your cheeks, a sparkle in your
eyes, give you new life, energy, vitality . . .
POPULARITY ... all the things that make
life worth while. Bidomak is offered to you
under a definite guarantee to do you good or
' cost you nothing.
This amazing guarantee is given by the discoverer of
Bidomak because he is positive that if you take it as
directed you must obtain real benefit'. He has the
whole of modern medical science on his side when he
asserts that 90% of human ailments result from
“mineral starvation.” This lack of vital mineral
elements from our food supply causes a great list of
deficiency disorders, including all nerve troubles, mal-
nutrition, nervous dyspepsia, anaemia, headaches,
lowered vitality and many other common illnesses.
GOOD HEALTH DEPENDS ON
MINERALS.
The most important health-giving minerals are iron,
lime, potash, sodium and phosphorus. These vital
minerals are all present in Bidomak and made avail-
able for easy assimilation in accordance with formulae
developed by the most advanced scientific work on
nutrition. A course of Bidomak strengthens the
liver, pancreas and stomach so that' we make
better use of our ordinary food supply. It builds
nerve strength and vigorous, buoyant muscles. It
recharges the arteries with a fresh supply of living,
red blood corpuscles and with oxygen, too, for the
purpose of burning up the body’s wastes.
BIDOMAK IS SAFE AND PLEASANT
TO TAKE—THE LATEST PRODUCT
OF SCIENCE.
There is not one single substance contained in Bidomak
which is not present in a perfectly healthy human
body. Bidomak contains no bitter, dangerous,
narcotic drugs nor opiates. It feeds does not drug
■ —and builds up, permanently, starved nerves, blood,
muscles, heart and brain. From the first dose you
feel it is doing you good. You’ll like taking it, too,
because it tastes so nice.
GET A BOTTLE OF BIDOMAK
TO-DAY!
BENEFIT GUARANTEED
Or YOU PAY
NOTHING
So many nerve sufferers have obtained
immediate relief from BIDOMAK that if you
do not benefit from the first bottle we will
refund your money within 14 days of pur-
chase on its return, nearly empty, to the
Douglas Drug Co. Thus we guarantee you
positive relief or you pay nothing.
BIDOMAK
The TONIC of the CENTURY
MAKES YOU WELL OR
COSTS YOU NOTHING
Bidomak is a product of the DOUGLAS DRUG CO.,
Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
Sole Tasmanian Wholesale Agents: L. FAIRTHORNE & SON PTY., LTD., Launceston.
<& a
ALL
CHEMISTS
ANO
STORES
mm . 1
$lB
m
■<■■■■


You couldn’t have thought
of a nicer present!
m
%
SnVS
>SN^
«■
fy
§
fy
V
It
§
!$
\
K
'l
fit
“o« Maurier cigarettes. Why, how
nice! I’ve never tried one yet.”
V
“ Try one now. I don't mind betting
you'll like them as much as I do.”
L ,
to
SF> t
VI
d\
\
■43> //
“ Well, have 1 hit on something you like, or
haven’t l?”
“ You have. I’m feeling grateful to you al-
ready—and I’m only half-way through the
first of the fifty!”
Cigarettes for Christmas—of course.
And this Christmas the question of which cig-
arettes to give is not a difficult one. du Maur-
ier, naturally. Luxury cigarettes, du Maurier
with the filter tip that has brought a new
pleasure to smoking. Fifty du Maurier Luxury
fifty times renewed. Can you think of a better
Christmas present ?
Make it a
du Maurier Christmas
m
du MAURIER
CIGARETTES WITH THE FILTER TIP
for 50 • 7/6 for 100
MADE IN LONDON
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 21J PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.I.
M.C.2
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND: ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS LTD., 185 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Showman”: One explanation of the
perfect teeth of natives of Tristan da
Cunha gives their diet as the secret.
They live chiefly on fish, potatoes, milk,
eggs and occasional goat’s meat', but
their rule is to eat but one thing at each
meal. If the menu for the day is fish,
this is eaten without additions of any
kind, not even salt. When the islanders’
teeth were examined by the president of
the Dental Society of Cape Colony, it
was found that out of 156 persons, rang-
ing in age from infancy to 92, the teeth
of 131 were entirely free from decay.
* * * *
“Kali”: Before the coming of the
white man divorce in Malaya simply
meant a visit to the imam and payment
of a small quantity of goods, and the
complainant was free. Nowadays the
fee has been increased to $5, otherwise
there is no difficulty. But the law is
strict with divorced persons who
effect reconciliation without remarrying.
At Kuala Lumpur a Malay school-
teacher was charged under Moslem law
with this crime. He was fined a hundred
dollars, and the lady was bound over
for a similar sum never to return to her
school-teacher.
* * * *
Nowadays the “Times” seems to be
subject once more to aberrations of the
kind that impelled it to pay £2500 for
the clumsily-forged “Parnellism and
Crime” letters without taking the
slightest trouble to inquire whether they
were genuine. Its comment on the re-
port, still unverified, that Italy was to
recognise Japanese control in Man-
churia and Japan the Italian conquest
of Abyssinia amounted to a muddy
attack on both parties. The faults of
“Times”-supported British foreign policy
are not to be corrected by abuse.
* * * *
“Rastus”: A black cloud has descended
on the swankiest and most “English”
part' of the U.S.A. Westchester County
in N.Y. State has for many years been
the G.H.Q. of those N.Y. social butter-
flies who prefer hunting after the Eng-
lish fashion to other pursuits. Also it is
the Mecca of American polo ; the West-
chester club can rightly claim to hold
the world’s championship. Now a negro
syndicate has bought the Pine Ridge
golf course and is to establish a
negro colony there. Estates worth mil-
lions in Westchester have been inhabited
for years by the cream of American
society, who have tried successfully to
build up a replica of English “county”
life. With the coming of the negro all
these must go and at a big fall in value,
and the hunt and polo clubs must vanish
also in the advancing darkness. Harlem,
a great residential and business district
of N.Y. City, was overrun by the negro
in a few years, the white retreating as
from a pestilence ; apparently that is to
be Westchester's fate.
* * * *
“Minden”: Next year the descendants
of Queensland’s first German settlers
will celebrate a centenary. When
the old people came out, Queensland
was limited to Moreton Bay, a
convict station. Free settlement was pro-
hibited for 50 miles around, and the
Teutons were among the first to break
through the restriction. The third and
fourth generations sprung from them are
still scattered about the districts in which
their forefathers found land, from
Myrtletown on the Brisbane River to
the Pine. Many good Queensland citi-
zens have come from that old stock,
and men bred from it lie under
the soil of Gallipoli and France, killed
fighting against the Germany which their
ancestors left.
* * * *
Veteran journalist John Smethursi,
from Broken Hill:
I learned recently of the death of George
Forbes, son and grandson of N.S.W. Judges—
his grandfather was the first Chief Justice of
N.S.W. At Wyalong over 40 years ago he said,
in fun, that he hoped I would write his epitaph.
Almost a stranger to him then, I had in his
absence stood up for him at a public meeting,
where he had been subjected to undeserved
carping in connection with his great services to
the new goldfield. George Forbes had only one
defect —he lacked the purse of Fortunatus;
nothing less would have carried him safely
through the swarms of parasites that he
attracted whenever prosperity came round his
corner—as it did intermittently. Articled to
Billyard, the Sydney solicitor, he followed his
fancy and went on the stage, joining the
Wybert Reeve company. After five years he
returned to the law, and practised, with in-
tervals, until a few years before his death.
He was a charming companion, a prolific story-
writer —his novels appeared as serials in Sydney
dailies —and a good lawyer, as I know—l
worked with him at Wyalong on big cases when
I was town clerk. George Forbes could relate
the most interesting stories of old Sydney.
Some day I may tell the one of Lord Rosebery,
Billyard and the suspension bridge. May his
kindly spirit rest in peace!
* * * *
“N.M.”: The Tildesley sisters have
such an outsize endowment of brains
that it is no wonder one of them has
made a study of their containers. Miriam
Tildesley, who has been on a visit to
sisters Evelyn and Beatrice at Sydney,
is an anthropologist. The only woman
to have held the position of curator
of the Museum of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons, she has measured
skulls of all nations and has written a
learned monograph on the skull of Sir
Thomas Browne, as well as the section
on the disposal of the dead (ancient) for
the Encyclopedia Britannica.
* * * *
Lady Harding, visiting Australia with
her lord, is a granddaughter of T. H.
Huxley. Grandmother, before she be-
came Mrs. Huxley, was Henrietta
Heathorne, a Sydneyite for some years.
* * * *
“Notch”: Another English cricketer
taking a busman’s holiday in this coun-
try is J. F. Parker, who last season
proved himself a useful all-rounder for
Surrey and looked like becoming a regu-
lar member of the team. Unlike several
other English county players now in Aus-
tralia holidaying, Parker will not follow
the English team round the map, but
remain in Sydney and play for Gordon.
A right-hand batsman and medium-fast
off-break bowler, he is only 23.
* * * *
“Surrey”: Was it at Lord’s that there
was no sight screen at the pavilion end
of the pitch (B. 25/11/’36), and that the
swing doors of the members’ bar were a
worry to batsmen? My recollections of
the two grounds are a bit confused, but
I have an idea that this was a feature
of the Oval. Perhaps Allen or Robins,
both Lord’s habitues, may be able to give
us the dinkum oil.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: Two old friends contested
the final of the U.S. professional golfers’
championship at Pinehurst: Densmore
Shute (winner) and Jimmy Thomson.
Pinehurst is in North Carolina, so, no
doubt, the Governor celebrated the occa-
sion in the usual manner.
* * * *
“Spare Quack”: A lot of fuss is being
made in Britain over the appearance of
a new infliction known as “golfer’s
shoulder,” which is proving as difficult
to overcome as “tennis elbow.” A char-
acteristic sign is pain in the right arm
at the insertion of the deltoid muscle. I
have not come in contact with a case,
but it seems to me that complete rest
would soon cure it. This could easily
be accomplished by transferring the glass
to the left hand for a period.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In Lynch Law Jamieson has a likely
Derby candidate. By Limond-Drastic,
the M.L. colt has size and galloping
ability, and possesses that good trait of
being docile at the barrier. When he
won at Moorefield he looked burly. In
the Kirkham Stakes at Warwick Farm,
where he started at twos, he was still on
the big side. But, short of a gallop or
not, he outclassed his eight opponents ;
St. Constant and Micawber proved the
best of them. Rodborough and Theolos
were next, but they, were too far away
to be recommended for Randwick. And
Pierrette's showing was signally dis-
appointing.
The A..T.C. chairman was present ,to
see his filly Sal Volatile (2 to 1) record
her third successive win in the first
division of the Camden Handicap. Her
performance drew attention to her
Villiers chance. Slow away from the
No. 1 position, the filly got a lucky run
on the rails, and, with Darby Munro
driving her along in the straight, she
worried King’s Head out of the first
prize by a neck, with Un Brave two
and a half lengths back. Herarde, a
son of Heroic-Bavarde, showed heaps of
pace to finish fourth. He is worth fol-
lowing. Upoko Ariki also went well to
the turn.
Falstaff likes the Warwick track, and
it was surprising that he was allowed to
go out at eights for the second division.
Überous was made favorite, but his
second to Fernacre at Moorefield must
have knocked him out, as he failed to
show up, and could only finish ninth.
Falstaff’s rider, Heather, who had previ-
ously won on the chestnut at the Farm,
rode confidently and did not send his
mount along until well in the straight.
He easily held off Thebez and Raleigh.
Misnomer was fourth after dwelling at
the barrier.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt
captured the first division of.the Maiden
Nursery with a Maoriland-bred colt,
Normandy (10 to 1). An excellent type,
Normandy will win more races, as he is
not quite wound up. Red Rivoli, from
Queensland, favorite at evens, had every
chance, but McCarten did not have to
ride his mount out to beat Red Rivoli
by a half neck. Ethnic and Pygmalion
ran a dead heat for third.
Own Folk, bred in Queensland and
raced by Mrs. C. H. Hicks, romped
home in the second division at sevens.
This son of The Buzzard-Merle’s Robe
ran past Billy Kerr’s Atalanta with
ease; Mangoola was third. El Mey-
nell, a stable-mate of Lynch Law, can
gallop. From No. 14 position he had to
be hustled along, and he chased Atalanta
until Own Folk put in his claim.
Summer Cup candidates sported silk in
the December Handicap. Dick Wootton s
Constant Son gelding First Son was
always favorite. He was boxed up on
the rails most of the way, and when
Knox tried to pull him out he was
forced back on to the fence. Jovial Son
(9 to 2) finished most resolutely to beat
Wykeham and First Son, by a neck and
a length respectively. Prittle Prattle was
fourth. Curator, after making the run-
ning to the last furlong, stopped badly.
Jovial Son is now in request for the
Summer Cup.
Wagner, a stable-mate of Jovial Son,
is a good-looking fellow, but his was a
poor effort in the. Farm Stakes. Though
backed from threes to evens he was never
in it. Perhaps he was not suited by the
turns; anyway, McCarten was at him
all the way. He finished eighteenth.
Gipsy Moon, trained at Ascot by George
Carr, gave the bookies a clean sheet;
she went out at 20 to 1 (nominal) and
paid £lO 12s. 6d. on the ten-bob tote.
She just got home from Rosmead, raced
by the former jockey Arthur Kuhn, and
Acinom, who had made the pace. Aerial
Post was fourth.
* * * *
New juvenile talent is continually com-
ing to light, and before autumn arrives
the relative rating of our young thor-
oughbreds may have to be revised con-
siderably. Harry Telford, of Phar Lap
fame, won at Moonee Valley with Per-
tiosa (Beau Fils-Parchment), who was
making her first appearance in public.
She started at 33 to 1 and paid
£lO Is. 6d. for ss.
Waetere, ridden by Frank Dempsey,
was favorite. This Ronsard filly might
have done better with a clear run at the
home bend. Dempsey dislikes big fields
—there were 20 competitors in a five-
furlongs flutter —-and he did not handle
Waetere with the pertinacity that Pres-
ton displayed on Pertiosa. Last-named
lost several lengths at the start'; yet
Preston persevered and forced his mount
through on the rails.
Judge’s verdict went to Pertiosa by a
neck from the Adelaide representative
Eastern Maid (Eastern Monarch-Ingo-
dina), who was only half a head in ad-
vance of A. G. Hunter’s Sir Grey, a grey
colt by Cimbrian. An apprentice allow-
ance of 71b. was claimed by the rider
of Sir Grey. An early win is in sight
for this smart galloper. On the dam’s
side Pertiosa comes from the same
family as Auraria, Aurum and Aurous.
Her sire gave the turf Waltzing Lily.
After being off the winning list for
exactly 12 months Art captured the Fund
Handicap at the Valley for the second
year in succession. His victories in the
spring of 1935 included the Werribee
Cup and Moonee Valley Cup. Art hasn’t
returned to his best form, but he man-
aged to lead all the way on Saturday,
and cleverly stalled off a challenge from
Nuit D’Or, with Bonus an eyebrow
farther off.
Buzbury, owned and trained by a son
of Dick Bradfield, was a false fa«vorite
for the Fund Handicap. He had
whipped-in the Bendigo Cup field a week
before and threatened to behave simi-
larly on Saturday, but made up some
leeway towards the finish. Though a
good track worker Buzbury seems too
nervous to do himself justice in public.
Held on lease by V. H. Braham from
Hunter White, his breeder, Art raced
in Sydney and Perth before becoming
permanently located in Melbourne.
There was a strong W.A. flavor about
the Fund Handicap finish, Bonus (third)
being in the stable of Ted Temby, who
was at the head of his profession in
Groperland a few years ago.
Three Melbourne trainers—O’Dwyer,
Holt and Bradfield —trained Britebeard
in turn before the handsome son of
Heroic was banned from racing in the
metropolitan area because of fractious-
ness at the post. He then came under
the hammer, and was bought for 450gns.
by the Gove brothers, who are interested
in the Indian horse trade.
Britebeard has mended his ways under
the tutelage of Leek. After registering
four wins on country courses he was re-
admitted to the city fold of thorough-
breds. The good display recently given
by Britebeard at Caulfield caused him
to be made a 6-to-4 favorite for the
Benefit Welter Plate, and he scored bril-
liantly from Sir Geraint. A tight tussle
for third resulted in favor of Buteman
by the narrowest of margins from Press
Gang, who was next in demand to the
winner but isn’t up lo his best form.
It was supposed that the new owners
of Britebeard would export him to Asia,
but now the chestnut stallion is being
talked of as a coming star in the big
autumn sprints. At his worst Britebeard
never was as bad as Heroic at the
barrier.
Beau Fils sired two of the Valley
winners—Pertiosa and Black Mac. The
manner in which Black Mac triumphed
over difficulties in the Welter Purse sug-
gests that he will shine in better com-
pany as the season advances. Far back
in the field at the half-mile he was
obliged to go wide at the turn, but
scored with a lot in hand from Benthos
(6 to 1) and Sannottar (10 to 1). Backers
were lucky to obtain 7to 4 about such
a gilt-edged proposition.
Carrying the colors of H. E. Con-
nolly, who won aG. N. Hurdle with
Jackstaff in 1924, Boomberry (6 to 1)
won the Appeal Hurdle in highly prom-
ising fashion. It was the gelding’s first
success over the little sticks. Bridge of
Mar, owned by V.R.C. chairman H.
Alan Currie, went out a 7-to-4 favorite.
He faded into fourth after looking dan-
gerous three furlongs from home. Minor
places were filled by Field Rise (33 to 1)
and Loyola (6 to 1). The manner in
which Loyola made up his ground shows
that this gelding has inherited stamina
from Poifrel.
Odds of 7 to 1 were offered on the
field in the Highweight Handicap, Gay
Sheik being one of four horses thus
quoted. The M.L. four-year-old im-
proved on his Bendigo form, but lost by
three parts of a length to Desert Dream
(10 to 1), with Don Miguel a close third.
Gay Sheik may not be thoroughly strung
up yet.
* * * *
“Agar”: One thing the stewards might
turn their attention to is the language
hurled at one another by jockeys strug-
gling for positions. In an apprentices’
race at Ascot (Vic.), the turn out of the
straight found the boys screeching
epithets which so disgusted a patron of
the flat that he indignantly reproved
them. The whole flat heard the reproof:
“Shut up, you lot of !”
* * * *
“Knavesmire”: The Manchester
autumn meeting, which ended the Eng-
lish flat-racing season, saw Gordon
Richards ride his 1000th mount for the
year and score his 177th win, bringing
his grand total of victories to 2011. Aus-
tralian “Brownie” Carslake—as inex-
haustible as his old pal Bobby Lewis —
fills fourteenth place on the list with 42
winning rides. Lord Astor like.
Richards, yet to win a Derby —is head
of the winning owners with £38,131. Lord
Derby is second with £29,839 ; the Aga
Khan, for once, has had to be content
with third place —and £29,055.
* •[' * *
“Nemo”: They are saying in Mel-
bourne that Jock Holt may hand in his
V.R.C. trainer’s ticket at the end of the
season. The story is that he is stopping
in the game only until Charlie Kellow
gives up racing. As evidence it is men-
tioned that Des McCormick, who used
to be located at the old Allendale stud-
farm stables, has transferred his string
to a section of the loose boxes at Holt’s
place. Being so closely associated with
Holt should give McCormick a wonder-
ful chance to get to the top of the tree.
He is a very capable young man —wit-
ness the fact that he has won a number
of good races with so-so horses and has
shown skill in patching up crocks.
* * * *
Two horses fancied for the Perth Cup
are Panto and Yaringa. Panto won the
1935 V.R.C. Hotham Handicap ; Balkan
Prince that of 1936. Yaringa beat
Balkan Prince nearly every time they
met as three-year-olds.
(Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
Brisbane’s Test match opened sen-
sationally. The Englishmen, batting
first, lost Worthington, caught Oldfield,
bowled McCormick,.first ball; and with
the score at 20 McCormick got Fagg
and Hammond (also first ball).. But
there was no collapse: Leyland (126),
though dropped twice by Ward —at 17
and again in the seventies —stayed till
six were down for 252; 7 Barnett
(69) had helped stoutly, and Ames (24)
also. McCormick, after bagging his
three wickets, contracted lumbago and
went off, and the rest of the'bowling
was not up to much. Ward mixed many
short ones with a very occasional good
ball. O’Reilly kept the runs' down—at
one stage he sent down 50 successive
balls without a score —without ever
appearing really dangerous. Sievers,
Chipperiield and McCabe were obvi-
ously mere stopgaps.
Hardstaff, showing glimpses of real
form at last, made a serviceable 43.
With Robins (38) and Allen (35) shap-
ing well, the total was carried to 358 on
the second day. O’Reilly bagged the
last four wickets, and finished with five
for 102. The others were divided be-
tween McCormick (three for 26) and
Ward (two for 138). Brown, a finger
injured in the Queensland game, was the
twelfth man, and Fingleton had Bad-
cock as opening partner. The young-
ster soon played on, 1-8-13, and a use-
ful Bradman-Fingleton partnership was
ended when the champion, who had hit
’em hard, mistimed a fast one from Voce
and was caught by Worthington—
-- Fingleton (61) and McCabe
(37) were plodding along at stumps—
two for 151.
On Monday morning Voce began
methodically to go through the side.
McCabe took his score to 51 quickly
and then went, caught Barnett, to the fast'
man ; three for 162. Robinson departed
next, caught Flammond—4-2-176 ; and
then Chipperfield, caught Ames—s-7-202.
Fingleton, plodding along steadily, was
89. After lunch he had Sievers as part-
ner, and got to the century in 297
minutes, but without adding to the score
he fell to Verity—6 for 220. The rest did
little and the last wicket fell at 234.
Voce got 6 for 41 —5 for 16 on the day.
Uncommonly good bowling. Allen look
3 for 71, Verity 1 for 52.
McCormick (he had a man running
for him while he batted) was unable to
bowl when the Englishmen started again,
but the openers fared little better.
Worthington went to. Oldfield again,
stumped this time off McCabe, 1-8-17.
At 50 Barnett (26) was caught by
Badcock off Ward.
*#*..■*
“Aigburth”: Cabled that J. W. Hearne
is retiring from the Lord’s staff. He
began with Middlesex in 1909 and was
in Australia with Douglas in 1911-12,
coming again in 1920-21 and 1924-25
with Douglas and Gilligan. A solid
right-hand bat and leg-break slow
bowler, he averaged 25 with the bat in
16 Tests and took 16 wickets. Don’t:
confuse him with his uncle “J.T.,” one
of England’s greatest right-hand-medium
bowlers, some of whose bowling feats
at Lord’s are cricket history.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne’s idea of re-
serving seats for the entire Tests instead
of for individual days and of making
them transferable has proved a success,
the whole batch of 1716 going off on the
opening day at 30s. A careful watch
was kept against speculators, and though
one travel agency bought a considerable
batch this was for M.L. and other clients
outside Victoria. So keen were the
buyers that there was a box-office queue
forming at 6.30 in the morning.
(Continued on next page.)
Young Bromwich —he’s 18 now —•
should be a certainty for Australia’s
next Davis Cup team. Crawford beat
him in the final of the N.S.W. singles,
but he needed five sets to do it, 6-4,
3- 1-6, 11-9, 6-2. Bromwich had ac-
counted for Hopman in four sets and
Quist in five. The doubles went to
Crawford and McGrath. The Vic-
torian girl Nancy Wynne beat Mrs.
Hopman in the women’s singles and, with
another Victorian, Dot Stevenson, took
the doubles.
* * * *
“Vernier”: Great preparations are
being made by the English Rifle Asso-
ciation for the visit of the Australian
team which will be the chief attraction
of the Coronation shoot at Bisley.
Among other special events there is to
be a Coronation competition, to be shot
for concurrently with the first stage of
the King’s. The smaller bull’s-eye intro-
duced last year will be in use, and a
special commemorative medal will be
struck and presented for the leading
events.
* * * *
“Splash”: After endless sparring the
Australian swimming heads have received
a cable' asking them to book passages
for Australia for Medica and his
manager. The shipping strike permitting,
the pair should leave ’Frisco this week
and reach Sydney by Christmas. As
, the Australian championships start in
Sydney on. January 9, Medica will not
have much time to get into condition for
them, though he will probably train in
the ship’s baths coming over.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Dundas Handicap: Distin-
guished ; next, King Gee.
Corinthian Cup: Curator; next,
Canegrass.
December Handicap: Windbird ;
next, Buzzalong.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Lincolnshire Handicap: Even-
ing Mist; next, L’Elite.
Ascot Handicap: St. Valorey;
next, Turf Boy.
Berkeley Welter: Earl Leicester;
next, Don Miguel.


THE GUN OF THE MOMENT
THE B.S.W. (Simson) D.B. HAMMERLESS
EMBODYING—
EXCELLENT MECHANICAL FEATURES,
MODERN DESIGN, PERFECT BALANCE,
HIGH-CLASS FINISH, WITH EXCEP-
TIONAL SHOOTING PERFORMANCE.
Specially Manufactured for Australian Shooting Conditions.
BARRELS OF KRUPP FLUID STEEL.
Distributors:
VICTORIA —Evans & Balfour, 269 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—J. T. Lake, Bank Street Adelaide.
Factory Representatives:
Cheetham & White Pty., Ltd., Box 1947 R, G.P.O Melbourne.
• The Victoria offers delightful
appointments, service, cuisine. In heart
of city. Moderate tariffs —“Room Only.
Singli, </- to 7/6
-*■ Write
VICTORIA
PALACE
Dept. 821 for
free booklet.
201-229 Little Collins
St., Melbourne, Cl.
i ■!!!!!
■lll
ItttlHl
■Luus
Hill
LARGEST NON-LICENSED HOTEL IN AUSTRALIA
PICKING ’EM.
IV.
Next' to the root of all evil, the punter’s
best asset is a good memory.
The Bulletin has been asked a hun-
dred times how it came to pick Capris for
the Epsom and Young Crusader for the
Metropolitan, a double that was 500 to
1 and 600' to 1 on Epsom Day. The
answer is that the picker has a pretty
good memory.
In his summing-up of the Epsom field,
Capris came back to memory as she. was
at Randwick in the spring of 1934, a
stylish dark chestnut looking every inch
a racehorse. When she struck form she
beat High in a seven-furlongs race, re-
ceiving 71b., and Dromos in another,
conceding a stone —each was run in
lmin. 24se.c. In between she defeated
Dromos in a mile race, giving him 21b. ;
the time was lmin. 37isec.
Very impressive form for a three-year-
old that had not had much racing and
might be expected to go on improving,
and the subsequent performances of
High and Dromos made it look more
impressive still.
High was third in the Carrington
Stakes won by Dame Moab (time, lmin.
lljsec.); first in the Elizabeth .Handicap
at Rosehill, beating Silver King over
“seven” in lmin. 25sec. (certainly he
was getting 161 b., but Silver King was
to prove himself in the weight-for-age
class); a close second in the Doncaster
to Hall Mark (lmin. 37^-sec.); first in
the Coogee Handicap with Bst. 131 b.
(lmin. 51Jsec.) and first in the Auburn
Handicap at Rosehill (lmin. I34sec.).
When making his
run in the Don-
caster, he was inter-
fered with by Hall
Mark, but the stew-
ards decided that
the interference did
not affect the result.
Dromos, for his
part, was first in the
Moorefield Cup,
second in the Cab-
ramatta Handicap
at Warwick Farm,
fourth in the Don-
caster and third in
High’s Coogee Handicap, with Bst. 81b.
In the Doncaster Hail Mark, High,
Silver King and Dromos came right
away from the rest.
One poor race Capris ran at Randwick
that season was in the Adrian Knox
Stakes. In that she was beaten into
second place by Limyris—by no means
a bad mare, but not quite in the class of
the Maoriland-bred filly. An occa-
sional indifferent performance must be
allowed for, however good the horse is ;
for horses have their ailments and off
days just like the lords of creation.
And sometimes, of course, the occa-
sional poor performances of good horses
would be hard-luck stories if owners and
trainers cared to take the public into
their confidence, which naturally is not
their custom.
After the Adrian Knox Stakes, Capris
was taken to Melbourne, where, except
for one visit to Randwick in June (she
ran second in the Botany Handicap, a
seven-furlongs race, conceding 221 b. to
Cid, since very successful), she remained
for upwards of a year. She won a couple
of races, in Melbourne (one was the
Stanley Plate at Caulfield, a seven-fur-
longs race, in which Capris had 9st. 81b.
and the runner-up, Lillirene, 7st. 71b.),
but she does not seem to have struck
top form there. This is no uncommon
experience in the case of horses accus-
tomed to Sydney conditions and the
Sydney way of running from right to
left. David, one of the greatest stayers
and weight-carriers that ever raced at
Randwick, was no good in Melbourne.
Returning to Sydney in April this
year, Capris won the Flying Handicap at
Ascot. Taken to Brisbane, she won the
Stradbroke Handicap, about the most
important six-furlongs handicap in
Queensland, cutting the record for the
race, to lmin. 12Jsec. That was a capi-
tal performance, for Queensland form
the last two or three years has been good
at all distances.
Before returning to Sydney, Capris
was tried at a mile and a quarter in the
Doomben Cup. With Bst. 71b. she ran
a creditable third to Verdun (7st.) and
Silver Standard (7st. 101 b.), the journey
taking 2min. ssec.
For the Epsom, Capris was given 7st.
121 b., a nice weight for a five-year-old
mare with such credentials. The three
races Capris had prior to the Epsom put
her in excellent condition for that handi-
cap ; in each (Campbelltown Handicap
at Warwick Farm, Camellia Stakes at
Rosehill and Flying Handicap at Ascot)
she was putting in her best work at the
end, and in the Flying Handicap she
ran a close second to Goorka, who
lowered the. record for the race to lmin.
“ Owzat?"
“Er— not quite sure. Do it again!"
25sec. Gay Lover, who was to battle
out the Epsom finish with Capris, was
one of the beaten lot.
Randwick was obviously the course
which suited Capris best. She had won
three races there, been second on two
occasions and third on another. Why
shouldn’t she win the Epsom?
So reasoning, The Bulletin’s prophet
tipped her for the Epsom, and she duly
arrived. Certainly the race was awarded
to her on a protest, but obviously she
had been carried out by the tiring Gay
Lover. There was no doubt in the
stewards’ minds and that of Cracknell,
the jockey, that the interference and no-
thing else had enabled Gay Lover to get
his head in front of the mare.
As for Young Crusader, the position,
as it seemed to The Bulletin man, was
that the handicapper had taken a de-
cided risk with a good horse. Young
Crusader had done pretty well as a two-
year-old and a three-year-old and shown
himself capable of running the Metro-
politan distance in fast time. Of few
other Metrop. candidates could that be
said.
As a two-year-old, Young Crusader
had won a race at Victoria Park, been
second at Kensington and third on three
occasions—twice at Randwick. As a
three-year-old, he had won the Mem-
bers’ Handicap and the Winter Plate,
both at Randwick. In the Winter Plate
he had 7st. 131 b., and, though his oppo-
nents were not much good, there was
no arguing against the decisive nature of
the win or the time —2min. 44isec.
Fast times are rarely made in winter.
In the previous Metrop. it had taken
High Cross and Oro 2min. 46Jsec. to
struggle to the end of the mile and five
furlongs.
Yet here was Young Crusader, in the
Metrop. with 6st. 91b. A four-year-old
and a proved stayer! Taking only
Metrop. winners since the end of the
war, Pershore, Sir Andrew, Bard of
Avon, Star Stranger, Jocelyn, Loqua-
cious, Cragford, Regal Son and Waikare
were four-year-olds.
The Bulletin writer’s mind went back
to Sir Andrew’s Metropolitan. Sir
Andrew’s three-year-old performances
were not much better than those of
Young Crusader. Certainly in the A.J.C.
St. Leger he turned the tables on Caserta,
who, much to the disgust of the late
Jimmy Wilson, had defeated him in the
V.R.C. St. Leger, but Caserta was a very
palpable second-rater. Sir Andrew got
Bst. 61b. in his Metropolitan, ran his
race much as Young Crusader was to
run in the Winter Plate, and won by a
street.
This is what' appeared in The Bulle-
tin when the weights came out:
Young Crusader has only 6st. 91b. in the
Metropolitan. Now that he has shown he
can go the distance and finish strong, what
is going to beat him, provided he is not
overraced in the meantime? In the A.J.C.
Winter Plate he carried 7st. 131 b. and
ran the distance in 2min. 44|sec. Oro and
High Cross (from whom the race was
taken away) occupied 2sec. more in the last
Metrop., and in the straight could not have
gone a fraction of a second faster.
Melbourne people looking for winners
of the two Cups have a prejudice against
winter form, but.it has repeatedly worked
out all right in Sydney. Laddie Blue won
the Winter Plate and the Metrop. Journal
won the Winter Plate, was second in the
Metrop., third in the Toorak Handicap and
first in the Caulfield Cup.
The Bulletin writer stuck to Young
Crusader all through the piece. His last
performance prior to the Metropolitan
was second to Lancaster King, a smart
middle-distance horse, in a race at Ascot
—and when apparently winning he ran
out wide. It is now turf history that the
chestnut won his Metrop. even more
easily than that other chestnut Sir
Andrew won his.
Ins and Outs
England carried its second-innings
score against Queensland to 528, and
closed with eight wickets down. Barnett’s
smashing innings for 259 was one of the
finest forcing shots ever seen on the
ground—he hit 39 fours and two sixes.
Fagg was not altogether convincing with
his 112, which ensured him a place in
the first Test, and Fishlock did not set
the ground afire with a scratchy 41.
After Ames made 60 no one. else wor-
ried much, Wyeth taking 3 for 95.
Queensland was saved from a flop by
Andrews (44), Baker (63) and Amos
(39). With 227 for 9 and ten minutes
to go, Dixon and Wyeth defied the
English bowling and played out time
to make it a draw (Fames 3 for 45,
Robins 4 for 63).
“Old Q.”: To many of the old-timers
with memories of Hutchings and Craw-
ford the batting of Barnett against
Queensland must have been as grateful
as the recollection of the pies mother
used to buy at the confectioner’s and
swear she made herself. A younger gen-
eration sat dumbfounded while this most
unusual batsman drove high over the
heads of fieldsmen —scored boundaries
by hitting the ball in the air instead of
pushing it along the grass for a single.
Barnett is a reviver of past glories.
“Aigburth”: Some of the papers are
asserting that Hammond, who took
command of the England-Queensland
match for an hour or so in Robins’s
absence, is the first professional to cap-
tain England in Australia since the start
of Test matches. The first Test in Aus-
tralia was in 1877, and Lilly white, a pro-
fessional, captained the English side,
Australia winning by 45 runs. Alfred
Shaw led two English sides in this coun-
try in 1881-82 and 1884-85. The last of
the professional captains in Australia
was Shrewsbury in 1886-87. Before the
Tests began, H. H. Stephenson and Geo.
Parr led the 1862 and 1864 teams. In
the latter instance, E. M. Grace, an
amateur, was a member of the team.
* # * *
“Wickham Terrace”: There has been
much moaning in the Sydney papers be-
cause the Australian cricketers had diffi-
culty in finding the high-class housing ac-
commodation their kind expects in Bris-
bane, the pubs and boarding-houses being
full of country people down for the match
and woolbuyers up for the sales. The
Board of Control does not book board
and lodging for its players as it does for
the Englishmen, but gives them 30s. a day
and tells them to hunt their own hash-
house. In the golden past many a fru-
gally-minded southern player made a
pretty good profit on the deal, though
allowances were not nearly so high. At
the worst the. Queensland Government
might lend the lads a sleeping carriage,
while they could get their scran at the
railway refreshment rooms. The Eng-
lish professional footballers had to do
this at Rockhampton, but, beyond the
hurt to their dignity, nothing happened.
* # * *
“Five Ways”: Brisbane C.G. is unfor-
tunate in that it is overlooked by some
high buildings just across a narrow
street. These buildings have been the
eyries of radio announcers and photo-
graphers, while tenants have otherwise
done well by hiring windows and bal-
conies to cricket enthusiasts who are of
frugal mind and like the idea of seeing
the fun for sixpence or so less than they
would have to pay for admission to the
ground. The ground authorities erected
a huge screen which cut off the view of
the folk in the high buildings. In the
night a high tower rose like Aladdin’s
palace on a vacant allotment close by
and was stocked with the freelances.
The ground authorities countered with
another screen. I write before the Test
match; by the time it eventuates they
may have found it necessary to wall-in
and roof their arena.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The usual fuss is being
made over the long-standing rule of the
Q.C.A. that strangers, even if they are
press experts, may not enter players’
dressing-rooms except in special circum-
stances. Apart from the fact that press-
men are apt to be a weariness of the
flesh to tired players, the Brisbane rooms
are so small that there is barely decent
room for the team, let alone an appan-
age of alleged acquaintances. To do
Jardine justice, he backed up the Q.C.A.
when a similar dispute arose.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Ward having cray-
fished on the cricket job offered him in
England, Mudge has consented to take
his place for a three-year term. Mudge


:
Ms
■
■
wMM
Hi
I
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
J. E. LOVELOCK {New Zealand)
who established a new world's record of
3 min. 47.8 secs, for the 1500 Metres
Run at the Berlin Olympic Games,
displayed remarkable endurance, speed
and stamina.
His display at the Berlin Olym-
piad was regarded as the most
technically perfect of all com-
peting athletes.
A runner of Lovelock’s calibre
must be thoroughly sound in
wind and limb to perform so
efficiently, and his performance
proved his physical capabilities
just as safe performance and long
service prove the superiority of—
Olympic Tyres
For Cars, Trucks, Cycles !
« S'LVER
£OG£ M
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
Asl{ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
POWER
f- 1
Si
arid
M©
STILL
ft
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SY r DNEY.
QUEENSLAND: El pliinstones Pty., Ltd., eorner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
No "B" Batteries
with this "Astor” Battery Radio
:g| &" '■';:'m§
One Standard 6-v. Accumulator
supplies both A and B voltages
Everybody not on the electric mains should trade in their present
battery set for one of these. No more "B" Batteries to buy—the one
6-v. accumulator supplies all the power needed. Accumulator guaran-
teed to give 100 hours operation after each full recharging. This
Astor gives higher power, greater selectivity and purer tone, too!
Write for full particulars. Set supplied complete with 6-v. accumulator.
£22 7 io OR EASY TERMS
DAVID JONES'
RADIO HALL, CEORGE ST. STORE
leaves in February, and will join the
touring Cahn team at Colombo, as it
was intended Ward should do, for a
tour of the Malay States. Alan Fairfax,
who is doing the roping-in for Cahn,
talks of adding yet another one or two
to his string.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Fleetwood-Smith is ex-
pected to be fit to play for Victoria
against Queensland in Melbourne in the
Sheffield game beginning December 22.
Whether he will catch a Test or not
remains to be seen. F.-Smith is a
googly expert above all else, and, since
Grimmett seems definitely out of it, may
be needed. He has improved, they say,
since the Jardine tour, when Hammond
did things to his bowling which are too
painful to mention.
* * * *
“Nundah”: Ron Oxenham is expected
to drop out of big cricket at the end of
this season. It is 25 years since he first
played with the State ; since his Shef-
field days started, in 1926, he has taken
160 wickets in the series, a record beaten
only by Grimmett (377), Ironmonger
(215) and Jones (200).
* * * *
The absence of the big fellows in the
Brisbane Test has given the smaller fry
of N.S.W. cricket a chance to show their
pace's on the Sheffield tour to Melbourne
and Adelaide. Of the three newcomers,
Ward (not, of course, the Australian XI
man) is an outstanding left-hand bats-
man who many think should have
got his chance earlier; Lush is a
sound all-rounder, right-handed and
bowling medium-fast, and Gulliver is
another who bats left-hand and bowls
right-hand slows. Gulliver has skip-
pered the N.S.W. second eleven.
* * * *
“Nark”: London “Sunday Express”
is making much of an alleged statement
by some member of Allen’s team in Aus-
tralia that the wickets, up to Brisbane,
where the tourists encountered their first
traditional Australian billiard-table
pitch, had evidently been doped to suit
the slow Australian attack, which asked
for a soft surface to help the spinners.
It will be remembered that the same
charge was made by the same paper
when the Jarwoods were out here and
was refuted on all sides, by none more
warmly than the English players them-
selves. It is a contemptible slur on
groundsmen—as decent a lot of chaps as
ever larded the lean earth.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida continues
on his triumphal way. He and Richard-
son cleaned up the rest of the N.S.W.
professional talent in the. pros.’ four-
somes at Kensington with a card of 137,
or 10 strokes lower than Heard and
Eyre, Petterson and Booth, the title-
holders, and Soutar and W. Bolger, all
of whom finished on the 147 mark. The
winners did nothing astonishing in the
morning round, which took them 72.
Tn the afternoon they skittled par and,
combining perfectly, came home in 65.
* * * *
“Marino”: Rufus Stewart came back
to the limelight by winning the S. Aus-
tralian professional golf championship
at Seaton from Fergus McMahon. The
form shown by all hands was poor, a
card of 301 being enough. McMahon was
second with 305 and Harvey nicked a
place, with 306 —all scores the English
cricketers would be glad to claim for
an innings total.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Announced that
there will be no golf included in the
1938 N.S.W. birthday party —that is, as
far as overseas players are concerned.
The organising committee has ruled that
all sports during the spree are to be
strictly amateur. This will forbid a tour
of a team of professionals such as the
Melbourne centenary saw, but not the
visit of a team of amateurs. It is stated
that to pay the expenses of such a side
is contrary to the rules of golf. This is
sheer rot. American and British Walker
Cup teams have their expenses paid, and
so do other amateur sides representing
Britain overseas or on the Continent. The
statement is all the more extraordinary
since all the other amateur athletes visit-
ing this country for the birthday and the.
Empire Games will have their costs paid,
and the rules of golf are much easier in
respect of the amateur status than those
governing runners, swimmers and their
kind.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Commenting on the
fact that Portland (U.S.A.), a city about
the same size as ..Brisbane, has 31 golf
courses while the Queensland city can
boast a bare dozen, a returned Queens-
land traveller opines that if the same
facilities were available in Brisbane as the
Portland golfing public enjoys the town
would soon have 51 courses. In Port-
land there are golf “colleges” where balls
are electrically teed up for pupils to drive
against a screen, the result of the stroke
being recorded by bells. Out of doors
may be seen grounds with long alleys
of netting like cricket practice nets. The
patron is supplied with a set of clubs
and a bucket of balls and whacks away
down his alley until the bucket is empty.
Minions kept for the purpose gather up
the pills into the bucket again while the
enthusiast goes on his way.
Racquet and Bawl
The N.S.W.-Victoria tennis matches,
which preceded the Ma State champion-
ships in Sydney, were won, as far as
the men were concerned, by N.S.W.,
17 rubbers to 4. The Victorian women
proved too strong for the home side,
7 rubbers to 5 ; they took all the singles
but one, which Miss Selwin retained for
N.S.W. Miss Wynne, again scored for
Victoria in singles and doubles.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: The members of the
Australian L.T.A. have gone into smoke
following on that body’s decision not to
send a women’s team to Europe, as was
proposed. The decision is based on an
estimated loss of £2OOO. The lasses are
not going to take the setback in a spirit
of humility.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The actual passing of
Perry to the professionals has not moved
the All-England L.T.A. to the wild grief
anticipated. But genuine sorrow is being
shown over the prospect of a falling-off
in takings. A born showman as well as
a great player, Perry for some years
dragged unprecedented crowds to
Wimbledon for the championships and
the Davis Cup games. The L.T.A. made
£2OOO-odd on the Davis Cup match with
Australia alone.
“Spike”: M.L. athletes are joining
with Australian in bringing over the Cali-
fornians Foy Draper and George
McKey. Draper was a member of the
American Olympic team, and claims to
have broken evens for all distances up
to 200 metres, his time for the 100 yards
being given as 9isec. and for the. 220 as
20 4-ssec. McKey is a decathlon cham-
pion, specialising in the high jump, shot
and hammer events.


A Present
with a Future!...
ķ
By giving—
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
this Christmas, you will start your children, nephews and nieces and other young people on the
road to sound investment. In one simple transaction, you buy for them an interest in 2
prosperous Australian companies, the pick of those listed on ’Change. Income distributed twice a
year. YIELD £4/18/6 per £lOO based on a price of 21s. 6d. per Sub-Unit and Income
during the past 12 months. (Dividends £4/0/4%, Bonuses and Sale of Rights 18/ /°-)
Here’s a wonderful way for you, also, to end your investment worries!
Full details from: Any Member of the Stock Exchange; The Custodian Trustees,
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney; or
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
Telephone: 85294.
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
December Issue Now on Sale.
TUNG OIL AGAIN
THE SHAREMARKET
JAPAN’S MONETARY POLICY
MONTH’S PROSPECTUSES AND BALANCE
SHEETS REVIEWED.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
F
1 OUR months of “trade-diversion”
have resulted in a Commonwealth over-
seas trade balance to the end of October
£922,000 sterling worse than for the
same period of 1934-35. Its sponsors’
claim that “trade-diversion” was adopted
to safeguard our London funds was
obvious humbug; but the startling thing
is that we are not even providing for
invisible commitments on the inadequate
scale of last year. For four months, in
fact, exports have failed to pay for im-
ports to the extent of £417,000 sterling.
* * * *
The investment sharemarket is buck-
ing a bit. After a rise to new high levels
a few days earlier, bank shares slumped
again last week, remarks by the ’Wales’s
chairman at the annual meeting result-
ing in a heavy fall in that institution's
issue. The marking-down continued to
spread among scrip of all classes of
companies not having brought anything
special to light during the past week or
two. It was just such a setback as had
been anticipated here, a reversal influ-
enced by rising interest rates and by a
waning of speculative support. The in-
vestor not relying on borrowed money
can ride out these squalls without
worry. It is significant that sound stocks
giving a good yield are holding their
own; Gordon and Gotch ords., show-
ing 4.5 p.c., moved up to 535. 6d., and
Pitt, Son and Badgery shares were
keenly sought also. Another of this
page’s fancies, Bankers and Traders’
Insurance, made headway. In the base-
metal section Mt. Lyell held its price
best.
* * * *
A Tariff Board report tabled last week
said that British cement was being
dumped in the Commonwealth ; export
prices were below fair market value, and
freights had been cut. The board recom-
mends that British cement offered at Aus-
tralian ports for less than £2 11s. 6d. ster-
ling (£3 4s. 6d. Aust.) a ton, c.i.f., should
come under the. provisions of the Indus-
tries Preservation Act. An anti-“freight-
dumping” bill passed through the
Federal House last month ; but with Par-
liament in recess it cannot give full
effect to the latest recommendation, which
calls for an amendment of the I.P. Act.
Some Malayan Tin Cos.
Ten well-known Malayan tin cos. listed
on Australian ’Changes have for their
secretaries in the F.M.S. and London the
Anglo-Oriental cos. (which last week
were considering amalgamation with the
London Tin Corp.), and in the Com-
monwealth Eric H. Pratten.
Known as the Anglo-Oriental group,
market valuation of the cos.’ scrip has
risen all round since the recent lift in
the price of the metal began to take on a
more stable look, and at present aggre-
gates around £8,000,000 (Aust.). Southern
Kinta, not very active on Australian
’Changes, accounts for more than half
of this:
Market Value of Shares.
Total. Per Share.
Southern Kinta .... £4,371,000 25/- (5/-)
Kuala Kampar .... 1,025,000 17/8(10/-)
Kampong Lanjut .. 412,500 27/6 (£1)
Kramat 605,000 73/- (£1)
Malim Nawar .... 66,700 13/- (£1)
Rawang Tin 920,000 10/9(10/-)
Rawang Cons. .... 280,000 28/- (£1)
Larut 435,000 14/6 (£1)
Jelapang 180,000 30/- (£1)
Kundang 75,000 12/- (£1)
£8,370,200
Kuala Kampar has ore reserves esti-
mated to contain 36,700 tons of tin ore
down to a digging depth of 90ft. At
present rate of output there is a life of
more than 30 years ahead of the show.
Kampong Lanjut’s ore reserves are
reckoned to hold 10,500 tons t.o. —about
nine years’ supply. Kramat (9200 tons)
shows eight years’, Rawang Tin (9000
tons) 13 years’, Rawang Concessions
(4900 tons), 19 years’, Larut (8000 tons)
nine years’, and Jelapang (9000 tons) 24
years’.
In all cases values are likely to vary
somewhat, and as they vary costs may
fluctuate. Lives of properties may be ex-
tended by purchase of additional ground,
of course. Most of the cos. are “well-
in” financially ; Kuala Kampar last bal-
ance day had surplus liquid assets of
£156,282, Kampong Lanjut £56,397,
Kramat £87,431, Rawang Tin Fields
£270,514, Rawang Concessions £53,461
“She wont let me in till I pass dictashun test through keyhole!”
Larut £40,595, Jelapang £BBB2 and Kun-
dang £15,500. When the estimated lives
of the properties are considered in rela-
tion to present and probable divs. of
the owner-cos., some idea of the ulti-
mate yield on an investment may be
arrived at.
Tin remains a speculative metal,
and there are a number of people
attracted by its possibilities. As div.
rates are now likely to lift, it is of little
value, to estimate yields to the investor
on past experience. But Kuala Kampar,
Kampong Lanjut and Kramat are con-
cerns with long to medium lives which
show working costs that should permit
the taking of full advantage of increased
prices for the metal.
Australian Cement £1 shares lifted to
30s. again last week ; at 235. Kandos 16s.
scrip was better buying by Is. 3d. in the
£1 —and that is ignoring the fact that
the N. S. Wales concern has a slightly
greater proportionate interest per share
in the operating co.
The possibility of Japan’s re-entry
into the Australian wool market is
plainly seen in the stimulated support
for the staple in Sydney over the past
few weeks:
Per Bale. Per lb.
Week ended — £ s - 4- d.
September 5 16 16 5 12.5
September 12 9 10 13.0
September 26 16 9 11 6
October 3 17 4 11 13.1
October 10 17 2 1 13.1
October 17 17 17 6 13.8
October 31 18 13 0 14.5
November 7 20 12 15.8
November 14 21 8 10 16.9
November 21 21 16 10 17.3
November 28 22 17 7 18.0
Quotations represent the average for
greasy and scoured. About a quarter of
the Commonwealth clip had been sold
before the price rose above 15d.
From 1,133,940 bales sold throughout
the Commonwealth to the end of Novem-
ber proceeds were £21,322,947. At the
average price of 14.8 d. realised the wool
cheque for the whole clip would be
around £57,750,000. In November, how-
ever, the average had lifted to 16.9 d., so
that that figure should eventually be
exceeded.
The wool clip, notwithstanding the
widespread dry spell, is expected to reach
the 3,036,000 bales estimated at the be-
ginning of the season.
Wheat, after a long, quiet period
in which prices kept fairly steady around
4s. lOd. a bushel at eastern Australian
ports, rose sharply early last week to
around ss. Id. The lift followed an-
nouncement of Britain’s defensive grain-
reserve programme; British and Italian
buying was prominent in the Sydney
market. And there are chances that the
129,000,000 bushels expected from the
Commonwealth’s wheat areas this season
will prove an underestimate.
* * * *
A quarterly interim div. of Is. (the
second interim of the new term) by G. J.
Coles and Co. compares with 6d. for the
corresponding period of last year. Though
the sharemarket on a previous occasion
took the wrong view of a higher-than-
usual interim, in this case bids for the
ords. have rapidly lifted from below 80s.
to 87s. 9d., at which figure they are close
to the level reached before the disturb-
ance on the board caused some alarm.
If 15 p.c. is paid for the term (12i p.c.
went out for 1935-36), yield on the present
quote, ex div., would be 3.5 p.c.
* * * *
British rubber stocks totalled 89,228
tons last week, compared with 91,600
tons in the previous week and 166,400
tons a year earlier. The price of the
smoked plantation product has moved
up to nearly 9d. a pound in London,
with Para at 12d. Increased interest in
rubber cos. listed in Australia has fol-
lowed. Koitaki has risen from around
par to 235. 6d. There has also been in-
quiry for the less prosperous Bukit Kubu,
Port Swettenham and Jalan Kebu cos.
(all with Barnet-Glass associations).
Koitaki shares, which in the co.’s last
year received 7 \ p.c., have had a large
turnover.
& * # *
First market reaction to actual sub-
division of South and North Broken
Hill scrip was a lift in quotations —
6s. in South’s case (on a £1 denomi-
nation basis), 265. in the case of North.
To add more than 10 p.c. to the price,
as in the latter instance, purely because
of a split-up in scrip was indicative of
speculative dealings. Proof followed
quickly ; on a metals market only slightly
weaker Souths suddenly dipped to a
level equal to 7s. below the pre-split-up
quotes, and Norths to 6s. below. Of
course, much of the appreciation gained
between the time of the announcement
and the actual subdivision still remains.
It looks, however, as though a lot of
punters have been disappointed. They
were warned here early that speculation
in regard to Mt. Morgan’s second sub-
division and Placer’s rearrangement had
been unprofitable.
Morris Hedstrom ords. re-
mained at 275. last week, de-
spite the leap in the price of
copra. The interim div. was
unchanged at 5 p.c. (payable
in Fiji money), but improve-
ment should come. The co.
has plantations as well as a
big trading connection.
Present return is a shade over
4 p.c. to the Australian in-
vestor.
* * *
Castlemaine - Perkins 12s.
6d. shares have dropped from
265. to 245. At the lower
figure the return is 4.1 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis—a
good yield from a sound
brewery stock.
* * *
British Tobacco’s final
quarterly div. for the year to
Sept. 30 was at the rate of 8
p.c. p.a., and this was ac-
cepted here as the distribu-
tion likely to be paid in
future, though daily papers
continued to quote the shares on a 6 p.c.
basis. An interim for the current term at
8 p.c. p.a. has settled any doubts. The
ord. scrip rose Is. 3d. on Tuesday of last
week and fell 9d. on Wednesday then
another Is. (to 455. 9d.) on Thursday.
* * * *
Producers of gold in the Common-
wealth are. getting that £8 165.-per-fine-
ounce outlook back again since France
left the gold standard and the metal re-
covered in terms of sterling, as this page
several times predicted that it would.
The metal in London hasn’t shifted
more than a few pence above or below
£7 2s. an ounce for several weeks now.
It is all to the good of mines and miners.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Consols continued to weaken, still leading
the way towards generally higher interest rates.
Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo) shares
lifted to the new high level of 58s. 3d. m
expectation of a higher div. Mount Morgan
scrip, after sales at 16s. 6d., drifted down to
15s. 9d.
Carlton Brewery shares were down to 605.,
showing a 4 p.c. return. Despite price-cutting
in bottled beer they appear good buying.
Holeproof ords. recovered to 28s. 6d.


HERE'S THE WAY
TO HAVE A BETTER
SAFER HOLIDAY
Get big husky Dunlop Weftless Cord Tyres out of their wrapping
and on your wheels. Is there any real economy in having to
crawl along an inviting highway because your tyres are too old
to stand a little speed? So, what’s it to be—risk being stranded
by the wayside (or worse), or spend a little tyre money now
instead of later? Here’s the economical way out—buy the longer
mileage and year-round safety of
Dunlop —no other tyres have
these advantages . . .
Before you pack your bags-
unwrap your Holiday Safety
Weftless cord tyres
★ The 48% greater non-skid mileage provided by
pounds more and tougher rubber in the treads.
★ The 12% cooler running and the 52% longer casing
life given by Weftless Cord (an improvement exclus-
ive to Dunlop interests in Australia).
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1737 of 1936.
BETWEEN ETHEL VARTY (formerly Ethel
Osborne) Petitioner
And WILLIAM VARTY Respondent.
TO WILLIAM VARTY late of Liverpool New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL
VARTY has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twenty-second day of February next and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of November,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
TIGHE, JONES & JONES, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, River Street, Ballina; by their
Agents, TEECE, FIODGSON & CO., 2 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1684 of 1936.
BETWEEN PAULINE ZILLA OSBORNE
Petitioner
And JAMES WINDSOR OSBORNE Re-
spondent.
TO JAMES WINDSOR OSBORNE formerly
of Woodburn and Jiggi in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PAULINE
ZILLA OSBORNE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Hon-
orable Court on or before the Twenty-second
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 23rd day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk
P. H. ROACHE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1548 of 1936.
BETWEEN VINCENT ANDREW REILLY
Petitioner
And MARY REILLY Respondent
And CHRISTOPHER WEBSTER Co-re-
spondent.
TO CHRISTOPHER WEBSTER formerly of
Coonabarabran in the State of New South
Wales Hotel Employee.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VINCENT
ANDREW REILLY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have committed adultery with
the respondent MARY REILLY AND FAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to this suit at the proper office o!
this Honorable Court on or before the third
day of March One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit will be determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had upon application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this First day of December, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) L. C.„HOLMWOOD,
Clerk in Divorce.
P. E. ROGERS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Coonabarabran; by his Agents, CURTISS,
DEZARNAULDS & EDWARDS, Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1515 of 1936.
BETWEEN ROSE FLORENCE POLLOCK
Petitioner
And JAMES KEVIN POLLOCK Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES KEVIN POLLOCK of North
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
Boilermaker.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ROSE
FLORENCE POLLOCK has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted the Petitioner and
without any such cause or excuse left her con-
tinuously so deserted during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the second day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. BIRNIE JACKSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Adelaide Brewing Carp., Ltd.
As mentioned here some months ago,
a Melbourne co. is taking over the old
Waverley Brewery, at Mitcham, Adel-
aide. Adelaide Brewing Corp. pays
£35,000 (£25,000 in shares, the rest cash)
for the asset's, and it has floated an Adel-
aide-registered subsidiary to carry on the
business.
The public is offered 300,000 shares of
ss. each, which have been underwritten
and fully subscribed. This should pro-
vide a working capital of £65,000, sub-
ject to brokerage, after the cash con-
sideration has been paid. , What tied
houses, if any, are included in the deal
the abridged prospectus doesn’t say ; the
co. intends to make full use of its license
to deliver dozen lots of bottled liquor
direct to the consumer.
The co. will start off with a paid capi-
tal of £lOO,OO0 —not a large amount to
pay divs. upon. Much will depend on
the popularity of the brew, on which
point the promoters seem satisfied.
Liquor consumption throughout the
Commonwealth is again on the increase.
Amalgamated Textiles earned 4.2 p.c.
on capital in the. year to Sept. 30, which
compares with 6 p.c. in the previous
term, when 5 p.c. was paid to share-
holders. No div. goes out' for 1935-36,
unless conditions later on warrant it.
Uncertainty in regard to wool prices
made warehousemen cautious in stock-
ing up as the term advanced, and Amal-
gamated Textiles at balance day was
™
anc j k an k was due for an additional
£ 15j321 ( mak i ng £66,020 altogether).
with cred j t tightening and interest rates
likely to rise, deference of the div, was
j n best interests of shareholders. Plant
was liberally written down during the
year.
* * * *
Jitters in the market such as were evi-
]as, week make one der what
sharebrokers are ; t 0 do> i£ they want
when industrial . scrjp
’ d , he boom in
~ .. ~, lt
m stocks loses Its „ “ t,ract £“L J
lwo 7 ea { s k ®° a 7 ne V m 7 ...
remarked that, as the gold-scrip bubble
< dou k ble commission on dealings) seemed
10 be B etti ng flay, i was going
take a lot of industrial-share activity to
F en F F C F!n r ound
to h .B ht durm S lhe all-round
rlse m com pany earnings ovci p .
tw .° y ears but sooner or later all good
things come to an end, even for share-
brokers. Continued speculation demands
better and still better co. profits—not
merely good profits. If speculation lan-
guishes, ’Change dealings might easily be
cut in halves.
* * . * , ,* _
Ordinary shares in Australasian Paper
have sll PP ed back to 33s - 9d ? showing
4.7 p.c. on last year s div. basis (8 p.c.).
Until the new plant starts earning there
will be a big parcel of capital idle, but
there has been no hint of a div. reduc-
tion.
Swan Brewery’s chairman told share-
holders last week that a bonus issue
wasn’t in sight at present; the reserves
were there, but taxation considerations
ruled against an early capitalisation.
The scrip was weaker in the sharemarket
following the lift prompted by the new
par issue.
* * * *
Interest' in Morning Star, the Wood’s
Point (Vic.) gold show, is quickening ;
there were sales of the Is. 3d.-paid shares
at 4s. last week, following preliminary
trials of the new treatment plant in
November. Underground work has been
resumed on full scale, and the new air-
compressor should shortly be working.
The largest gold-producer in Vic. dur-
ing 1935, Morning Star has financed the
£lB,OOO or so called for by the new
equipment' out of proceeds of gold won.
Between June, 1935, and July, 1936,
10,307 fine ounces was recovered from
5630 tons. Shareholders have received
a shilling a share in divs., and more
should soon be forthcoming. After
Burns’s floor is worked out the future
will depend on results of exploratory
work.
sK * * v *
Wattle Gully, the Chewton (Vic.)
show, has its own battery running now,
and from 725 tons of ore won 3210 z.
recently. This was the largest through-
put in the co.’s history, and included
lower-grade ore than usual. There were
sales of the 9s. 9d.-paids last week at
465. 3d.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
Shakspearean Film Heads Week's Offerings.
Of the talkies introduced to Australia last week M.-G.-M.’s “Romeo and
Juliet’’ stands easily first—the most successful adaptation of Shakspeare to
the screen yet seen. Of the five thrillers—“Suicide Club,” “Lonely Road”
“Counterfeit” “King of the Royal Mounted” and “Alibi for Murder”—
the first-named has most to recommend it. “Southern Roses” (English
stage musical half-fitted to the screen) and “We Went to College” an
amusing American skit, are the other arrivals.
"Romeo and Juliet."
CAPULET ! Aubrey C. Smith
ROMEO Leslie Howard
•MERCUTIO John Barrymore
BENVOLIO .' Reginald Denny
T'YBALT Basil. Katlibone
JULIET Norma Shearer
NURSE Edna May Oliver
Save for some unimportant cuts and
the substitution of action for spoken nar-
rative in cases where the screen’s magic
carpet makes this helpful, thisJs Shak-
speare’s tragedy, from prologue to cur-
tain. To make rhymed and blank-verse
dialogue, archaic in diction and decked
with metaphor and imagery, sound natural
is no light task, but the M.-G.-M. organi-
sation has proved equal to the strain. The
film takes over two hours to unwind,
but though it holds no surprises it grips
the interest and seems no longer than
the usual ninety minutes.
AIT the leading play-
ers seem to have put
their most intelligent
interest into this pro-
duction, and as they
are all seasoned actors
the result is excellent.
Outstanding is John
Barrymore’s masterly
sketch of the gayest,
most whimsical gentle-
man in the Montague
entourage ; outstanding
also Miss Shearer’s
Juliet, a character that
wins all sympathy.
Leslie Howard mixes
the irony, the rhap-
sodising and the tragic
forebodings of Romeo
with a steady hand.
Rathbone is all tigerish
venom as Tybalt, and
Miss Oliver’s nurse—
hardest part of the lot to put across to
a twentieth-century audience —is as good
a representation of the good-hearted,
garrulous old soul as one could ever
hope to see behind footlights.
The balcony scene is beautifully
staged, the immortal lines are well
spoken. In the vault, when Romeo
quaffs the fatal cup, one has reason to
reflect' that Mr. William S., much as he
liked to pile on lash-act agony with a
heavy hand, knew when to stay that
hand. Juliet doesn’t wake just after her
lover has swallowed the poison; she
must wait till he has expired.
Costuming and settings throughout are
examples of thoroughgoing efficiency.
Every little detail has been considered.
And the censor hasn’t ironed out all of
those full-flavored Elizabethanisms that
remind us of the respectable antiquity
of our impoliter words. At the St.
James, Sydney.
"Lonely Road."
WEALTHY CHAPPIE .* Clive Brook
HONEST WORKING GIBL, Victoria Hopper
Ingredients are those of the stock
penny novelette. Commander Stevenson,
R.N., retired because of a mistake that
lost the British Navy a good submarine
and several lives, has oodles of money,
spends a lot of it on liquor, and does 90
m.p.h. on the roads at night in a super-
charged Auburn. While very tight he
dashes down a lane and nearly into the
sea, coming to a standstill on a little
beach where desperate characters are
landing a consignment of sub-machine-
guns. He is knocked on the head and
spends a few days recovering. Later he
meets a poor but beauteous dance-hall
hostess who lets slip a tip that her
brother (represented by Australia’s recent
visitor Charles Farrell) is in with the
crooks. Partly because he is egged on by
Scotland Yard, the commander takes the
girl to his Devonshire country house
for a holiday (stay the rising blush —he’s
a perfect English gentleman), gets in
touch with the brother (an innocent tool)
and protects both brother and sister
against official persecution. Most excit-
ing thing that happens is an attempt to
assassinate brother, in which girl gets
Aubrey C. Smith as Capulet, John Barrymore as Mercado, Leslie Howard as Romeo, Edna May
Oliver as the Nurse—“ Romeo and Juliet, " at the St. James, Sydney.
potted, but not fatally. Dance-hall miss
and dissipated ex-officer are headed for
altar at fade-out.
Brook does his best with a mostly
static part, and Miss Hopper, who has
little to do but look coy, does that little
nicely. But it’s a dull affair. At Sydney
Lyceum.
"Southern Roses."
HEAVY COMIC George Bobey
HEADING JUVENIEE Keith Hamilton
SINGING SOUBBETTE Gina Malo
DANCING SOUBBETTE Chili Bouchier
A further demonstration of the fallacy
of the British idea that a stage show is
ipso facto first-class screen material. Gina
Malo is a pretty, vivacious actress, with
a nice little light voice ; Miss Bouchier
puts over a Frenchy part (she’s sup-
posed to be Spanish, but there’s not
much distinction in musicomedy) very
snappily. George Robey is the embodi-
ment of Cockney perkiness as a pompous
paint-manufacturer and Mr. Hamilton-
wears his clothes beautifully, but with-
out body and color the scenes are as
insipid as watered wine.
However, the production marks an
advance on previous English essays of
the same sort. It gets more laughs out
of the essentially English sort of humor,
and the principals have been induced to
shed some of the tricks that are essen-
tial on the stage but irritating on the
screen. At Sydney Lyceum.
"Counterfeit."
T-MAN Chester Morris
BOSS COUNTERFEITER Lloyd Nolan
ENGRAVER Claude Gillingwater
BAD GOIL Margot Grahame
GOOD GOIL Marian Marsh
T stands for U.S.A. Treasury. T-men
track down counterfeiters, and accord-
ing to this exposition of their activities
they are prepared to stage sham hold-
ups and murders in order that they may
worm their way into the confidence of
suspected persons. This film commences
with the kidnapping of the U.S.A.
Treasury’s oldest and most capable en-
graver. He is set to work manufacturing
phony currency. When the stuff gets
under a Treasury microscope his initials
are found twined among the curlicues
of an intricate design. Heroic T-man
joins the counterfeiters and is selected to
murder innocent sister of a woman mem-
ber of the gang because she knows too
much. Instead he holds up the whole
gang with a typewriter (otherwise a
tommy-gun), and at that moment the
forces of lawnorder burst in.
Morris and Nolan are smooth actors,
Gillingwater gives a snappy picture of
the irascible, dyspeptic old engraver, and
the goils are both clever and decorative.
Action is swift, the moral is sound, and
what more do you want? At Sydney
Capitol.
"King of the Royal Mounted."
SERGEANT KING OF THE R.C.M.P.,
Robert Kent
SHYSTER LAWYER Alan Dinehart
GOIL Rosalind Keith
One of the novels of the industrious
Mr. Zane Grey provided the material
for this romance. Shyster lawyer arrives
at' Keeway, in the Canadian north-west,
to establish the claim of beautiful goil
to half of a rich goldmine. Of course,
he intends to bilk the girl, but she gets
in touch with the owner of the mine, and
the assassination of that person is ac-
complished by the lawyer in circum-
stances that make the goil a suspect.
The hard-riding Sergeant King, however,
does a bit of Sherlockholmesing, and
while the bad attorney goes handcuffed to
the gallows the serge-ant and the goil fade
out locked in a languorous embrace. Dine-
hart has become so accustomed to vil-
lainy that two seconds after committing
a violent murder he becomes immersed
in the study of botany. Miss Keith is
pretty and vivacious and Mr. Kent makes
a very personable hero. At Sydney
Capitol.
"The Suicide Club."
PRINCE FUOBIZEU ... Robert Montgomery
MAJOB GEBAUDINE Frank Morgan
CLUB PBESIDENT Beginald Owen
MISS VANDELEUB Bosalind Bussell
Based on R.L.S.’s story of “The Young
Man with the Cream Tarts.” Mont-
gomery makes the prince understandable
and Morgan gives one of his famous
studies in vacillation —a gay pair of ad-
venturers of London’s hansom-cab era.
And, of course, there is no doubt that
the imperious Miss Russell is a princess
incog. Her tests of courage inflicted on
the unsuspecting prince soon expose the
pair to danger from the anarchist presi-
dent of the Suicide Club, a menacing
person with a bald head, who meets his
fate in a duel with swords.
This must be the first mystery film in
which everything that happens really
has some logical connection with the
story. At Sydney Mayfair.
"We Went to College."
BRICK MAGNATE Walter Abel
HIS FRIEND Charles Butterworth
PROFESSOR Hugh Herbert
PROF.’S WIFE Una Merkel
This comedy exposes the folly of try-
ing to recapture lost youth ; slow-moving
scenes and heavy treatment rob it of
much point.
When the Uni.’s old-boys stage their
back-to-college week-end all indulge
pathetically in moronic behavior —except
the magnate, there solely to get a brick
contract. However, he meets his school-
days sweetheart, now a prof.’s wife, ana
she, letting her romantic yearnings run
amuck, nearly wrecks their respective
marriages. A crude climax saves them
and gives the film its K.O.
Butterworth and Herbert are monoton-
ously the same as in their last half-dozen
appearances, but Una Merkel attempts a
new type —unfortunately, without much
success. At Sydney Mayfair.
"Alibi for Murder."
RADIO REPORTER SLEUTH,
William Gargan
GOIL Marguerite Churchill
This Sydney Plaza support is a fair-to-
warm crime-detection film in which an
astute and voluble radio reporter, while
attempting U inter-
vi e w an inventor,
stumbles across said
inventor’s corpse.
There is the usual
platoon of suspects
with good, strong
motives, among them
deceased’s wife, his
assistant, a munitions
magnate, a business
rival with a criminal
record, and, of course,
an innocent - looking
butler. Marguerite
Churchill, who was
the victim’s secretary,
and another employee
were with the reporter
when the shot was
fired. The police,
naturally, get the
wrong notion, so it is
left to Gargan to clear up the mess, which
he does, despite threatening letters, mur-
derous attacks and dictaphones planted
in his office. His reward? Well, what
do you think Miss Churchill is in the
picture for?
SOME FIRST NIGHTS.
“Contes Russes,” presented by the
Monte Carlo Russian Ballet in Mel-
bourne, is derived from Russian folk tales,
atavistic, melancholy and superstitious.
The legends are danced as divertisse-
ments, with a spectacular finale wherein
all characters take part in a gorgeous
exploitation of color and movement.
Woizikowsky danced the Prologue with
his usual volatile enthusiasm. Elizabeth
Souvorova and Thardee Slavinsky as
Kikimora and the Cat dramatised their
grotesque roles so as to create more than
a twinge of sympathy for the poor,
puzzled Cat when the Spirit of Wicked-
ness turns on her benefactor, kills him
and escapes to ravage the world.
In the second legend Nina Youchke-
vitch is the bewitched swan princess, and
Valentin Froman the hero who rides to
her rescue on a charger (painted scenery,
and far more compatible with ballet than
were the early experiments of using
a real horse). The prince kills the four-
headed dragon, after which there is a
funeral and a gay folk dance. Of


HIGH SPEED
nUDIG
Two hall-turns only required t
ĸ
'"THIS is quite the simplest and quickest way
x in the world of filling a fountain pen. See
for yourself just how easy it is, try writing with
one, at any good Stationers or Jewellers.
Prices. —The Leverless (‘ Quick-fill ’) Swan from
21/-. The Visofil (‘ Big-fill ’) Swan 32/6. Ladies'
Size, 27/6. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours. '
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE LEVERLESS
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
k
A. 2.36
Mothersills
SCASICK REMEDY "
Guarantees A Perfect
Voyage
5S
32HH
NEW BOOKS
FROM LOTHIAN’S LIST
A Fascinating Travel Book,
THE GREEN PARADISE.
Tells of a woman's unconventional trip along the
Amazon in a cargo boat, and a journey in the
Argentine delightfully described.
4G Fine Illustrations.
C'r. Bvo., cloth, gilt lettered, 5/- (post 4d.).
“Informative and well illustrated.” — “Bulletin.''
“The reader will revel in the beauties so delight
fully described in this admirable volume.” — “Courier.”
•.“The sense of mystery is well suggested. Interest-
ing and readable.” — “Advocate.”
A GRIN, A LAUGH, A CHUCKLE
ON EVERY PAGE.
Seven editions sold in England in 7 months.
A SHORT HISTORY OF SCOTTISH REGIMENTS.
By A. W. Keith,
Private (retired) Highland Light Infantry.
Fully illustrated. Cr. Bvo., sewed, 2/6 (post. Id.).
New Volumes of Verse by Australian Authors.
WHITE MAGIC.
Nature Poems, by M. A. Hamlyn-Harris. Cr. Bvo.,
beautifully printed and artistically bound in Blue
and Silver, a most charming volume, 3/6 (post. 3d.).
BOUNDARY BEND,
And Other Ballads, by Edward Harrington. Cr. Svo.,
daintily bound, gilt lettered, with portrait of Author.
3/6 (post. 3d.).
POEMS—LYRICAL AND
DESCRIPTIVE.
By James Kennedy.
A collection of new verse by the author of
“Psyche and Eros,” which was published last year,
and was highly praised by critics in England and
Australia.
Cr. Bvo., cloth, gilt lettered, 3/6 (post. 3d.).
Some Old Favourites for Gifts.
SHAW NEILSON’S COLLECTED POEMS.
John Shaw Neilson is Australia’s most popular
lyric poet. He is a born poet and has the true
gift of the song writer.
Cr. Bvo., cloth, gilt lettered, 10/6 (post. 4d.).
LAWSON’S MATESHIP.
(Remembrance Series.)
A dainty and typically Australian gift. Three of
Lawson s best stories for Xmas.
Neatly boxed and artistically designed,
2/- (post. 2d.).
AT ALL GOOD BOOKSELLERS.
THE LOTHIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY
LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, and Auckland.
m
m
■
m
m
'' w%££
m
m%&>
>4+
What a glorious holiday trip
one can enjoy in this land of
contrasts. Perpetually snow-cap-
ped peaks rise majestically
from the plains . . . gigantic
glaciers grind their inexorable
way down the mountain side to
finish among semi-tropical ver-
dure . . . hissing, gushing geysers
and bubbling, plopping mud-
pools . . . weird underground
caverns with unique limestone
formations . . . tumbling cas-
cades . . . placid lakes reflect-
ing the bush-clad shores, mar-
vellous fiords that have earned
a world-wide renown.
Come to
NEUJ ZEALAND
Friendly Land of
SCENIC SPLENDOURS
m.
Ml
And, if you want sport, there are
lakes and streams where you can
tempt the trout; fishing grounds
where you can pit your skill against
giant sword fish and mako sharks;
picturesque well-kept links for a
round of golf; shooting; or hiking on
scenic trails. Come this Summer.
For further particulars:
GOVERNMENT
14 M* DT,W PLACE
SYDNEY
(Directly G.P.0.)
Tel. B 7043
ķ
(and all Travel Agents)
Write. Call or 'Phone:
TOURIST BUREAU
COLLINS HOUSE
360 COLLINS ST.. MELB.
Tel. Cent. 3110
.KINS HOUSE, QUEEN ST.
BRISBANE
primeval, Eastern Russian origin is the
third legend, “Baba Yaga,’ in which
there are three weird and dreadful devils,
a haunted house on walking chicken
legs, Sonia Woizikowsky as a lost child
and’ male dancer Ristic as a realistic
ogress. Massine did the choreography for
the ballet, and Larioneff, a modernist long
before his time, designed the exhilarating
costumes and the highly-imaginative
scenery, which included several changes
of curtains.
“Les Cent Baisers” is the only ballet in
the co.’s repertoire by Bronislava Nijin-
ska, brilliant dancer, teacher and choreo-
grapher, and sister of ill-fated Nijinsky.
Saturday’s production was of particular
interest in that it,gave a further oppor-
tunity to Nijinska’s pupil, Nina Youchke-
vitch, to expound the classical technique
which she revealed the previous week in
a revival of “Aurora’s Wedding.”
Youchkevitch is of bigger build than most
of the girls in the ballet, but her pirouettes
and fouettes are beautifully executed, and
with Igor Yousskevitch (not a relation)
to lift her she seems as light as a
feather. Yousskevitch does some of his
best dancing in the role of the prince,
who must combine technical accuracy in
slow and difficult adagios with dramatic
intensity. The ballet, one of the few with
a moral, is derived from a story by Hans
Andersen in which a shallow-minded
princess spurns a prince’s simple gifts of
a rose and a bird until the young suitor
disguises himself as a swineherd, when
she becomes crazy about his magical
cymbal and submits to a hundred kisses
that she might possess it. But the prince
is disillusioned, abandons his disguise;
gathers up his unappreciated gifts and
leaves a weeping maiden locked out of
the castle by an angry father. .
Also on the programme were revivals
of “Les Sylphides” and “Prince Igor.”
■2* *2* '2* *l*
“Ruddigore” returned to Sydney for
three nights. Consequently Ivan Menzies
was compelled to commit on the Royal
stage at least one dark deed nightly, Wini-
fred Lawson would not take a step with-
out consulting a book on etiquette,
Richard Watson ceased to be a wicked
baronet just before the finale of the first
act and the Murgatroyd picture-gallery
came to life to sing “Painted Emblems
of a Race” and point fingers of scorn at
Sir Robin alias Oakapple. On Saturday
evening some of the principals were list-
less, and Mr. Menzies was not at his best
when called upon to thunder in the
second act. However, Bernard Man-
ning’s “Ghost’s High Noon,” Eileen
Kelly’s “To a Garden Full of Posies,”
Evelyn Hall’s “There Grew a Little
Flower,” the patter song, the professional
bridesmaids and other features kept the
audience happy.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
A link between such “modernists” as
Epstein and the sculptors and mural
decorators of Babylon and the Egypt of
the Shepherd Kings is provided by cer-
tain statuettes just now on view at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney. The
maker of these, a middle-aged lady, has
had no formal art training. She has
never heard of Monet, and doesn't
know a pointellist from a puma. It is
doubtful whether she ever saw a good
piece of sculpture, from Praxiteles down
to Bertram Mackennal. She finds her in-
Modelled group by Miss Youngi at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney.
spiration entirely in things seen, and her
sincerity and her devotion to her art
are alike admirable.
She has to go on long fossicking ex-
peditions to find her materials, which
come from the beds of creeks, and the
material is stubborn. So much the
better. Consider the strong simplicity of
the most ambitious offering, the group of
man, bird, horse and cat. Rodin couldn’t
have bettered the composition. The
single figures are not quite in proper
anatomical proportion, but their exag-
gerations have purpose. Thousands and
hundreds of thousands of years ago
carvers of wood and stone and moulders
of clay produced figures very like these,
embodying in them the first element of
art, which is judicious accentuation.
Why does this lady sculptor hark back
thus to the primitive? It would be in-
teresting to interview her, but she isn’t
available. She is on vacation, or, as she
would probably put it, “walkabout,”
and her address is unknown. When she
wants for baccy she’ll probably turn up
with some more of her inspirations. She
is Kalboori Youngi, of the Pitta Pitta
tribe, Boulia, Queensland, and The
Bulletin unhesitatingly acclaims her as
the most essentially Australian artist it
has yet struck.
4* *i* *2*
The Royal Art Society’s “cabinet ex-
hibition” at Rubery Bennett’s galleries,
Sydney, comprises oils, water-colors and
etchings by about 40 artists. None of
the offerings is more than about 16in.
by 12in. and most are considerably
smaller. There is nothing very striking
in the show, but Mary Edwards, A. J.
Sherman, Howard Barron, Tom Garrett,
Erik Langker, W. Lister-Lister, Alfred
Coffey, H. A. Hanke and J. S. Watkins
are represented by characteristic works
well up to their standard. Norman
Baker, in “The Case Factory,” attempts
less than usual and completely succeeds
in conveying the impression aimed at.
J. R. Flanagan’s figure study “The
Veteran” has some clever color and
graceful drawing in its make-up. T. Y.
Butterworth’s “Mosman Bay” falls be-
tween the stools of realism and Japanese
decoration. J. Elliot’s “Petunias” shows
a sure touch. Charles Bryant's “Low
Tide, St. Ives,” and G. L. Trindall’s
“Florence” stand out as examples of
sound painting in oils.
•2* 4* *2* *2*
Elaine Coghlan’s show of oils, water-
colors and pencil-drawings at the Wyn-
yard Book Club, Sydney, is full of nice
fresh glimpses of the Sydney waterside,
and for that reason, perhaps, made a
special plea for appreciation to this critic
on a morning when the humidity stood
at 70 and the thermometer at 94. There
is nothing very original or distinctive
about Miss Coghlan's work, but it is
based on good draughtsmanship, and so
far as it goes is a sincere attempt to ex-
press things seen. But so many of her
pictures repeat themselves that the effect
is a bit monotonous.
*2* 4* 4* *2*
Sydney’s newest gallery is the Lode-
star, next door to the Carlton Hotel in
Elizabeth-street. Here Stella Scroggie
has hoisted the, defiant standard of the
art moderne, and on the walls are the
latest and most characteristic examples
of the work of such thoroughgoing im-
pressionists as Roland Wakelin, Arnold
Shore and Helen Stewart, with a leaven
of less aggressive modernity as expressed
in paintings by Lloyd Rees, Elioth
Griiner, Douglas Dundas, J. D. Moore,
and J. Muir Auld. Women painters,
notably Mary Edwards, Adelaide Perry,
Margaret Preston, Maud Sherwood, Thea
Proctor, Grace Cossington Smith,
Treania Smith, Gladys Owen, Ethel
Anderson, Enid Cambridge and Kathleen
Jones, are well represented. It is a bright
show, and can be commended to those
who are interested in new paths in art.
Australian Bush Songs, music by
Georgette Peterson, words by Annie
Rentoul (Allan and Co.; 25.), is a selec-
tion from' three volumes of the same
authorship which have been on the
market for many years. Accompani-
ments have been simplified and some of
the songs have been transposed into keys
more suitable to the average voice than
those originally chosen. There is a
great variety in style and mood, but in
each of these compositions the melody
is well-defined and pleasing, the accom-
paniment, though easy, is really an accom-
paniment, not a dissected bass, and the
words have grace and humor. The pub-
lication should introduce these clever
little ditties to a wide circle. Grown-
ups as well as children will find them
likeable.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
#ll*
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwadc
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Ijm
10J i
P E TTYS Hotel
York Street Sydney
Stay at Petty's in Sydney—the hotel of 102 years' service. Enjoy the
excellent service; the air of comfort; and the convenience of its position.
The best of everything at sensible prices.
New private dining room and lounge room at your service.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(2) E. yOUNSS, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In the days when Phil May and “Hop”
were handing out The Bulletin’s
weekly laughs, Nellie Stewart was draw-
ing audiences to the old Lyceum (yes,
that was a theatre of flesh and blood
before it turned cinema) in such light
operas as “Ma Mie Rosette.” Nellie,
like Marie Tempest, commenced her
career as a singer, and later took up
romantic drama and brought a pre-war
Sydney nightly to Her Majesty’s in “The
Du Barry,” “Old Heidelberg,” “Sweet'
Nell of Old Drury” and such. Harald
Bowden, of J. C. Williamson, talked of
these things, turning up some of the
Firm’s archives. Last week there was a
pilgrimage of Nellie Stewart admirers to
the Botanic Gardens, when Mayoress
Parkes presented the Garden of Memory
to Minister for Agriculture Hugh Main,
who is also chairman of the Gardens
trustees.
The garden, which will commemorate
Australia’s most versatile actress, blooms
with 2000 rose-trees —Ma Mie Rosette
and Dubarry among them. Later there
will be a bust of Sweet Nell by Rayner
Hoff.
The actress’s daughter, Mrs. Lynton
(Nancye Stewart), was in Melbourne, but
grandson John Stewart Lynton was
there, and presented the Mayoress with
a basket of flowers. Eileen Robinson,
friend since childhood of Nancye
Stewart, told with pride that she has the
original Ma Mie Rosette frock. Tempe
Pigott, newly returned from Hollywood,
was there ; so was an admirer who came
with her handbag filled with rosemary.
Incidentally, Nellie’s sister Docy died on
Sunday.
Mrs. Jack Crawford wore violets at
the throat of her blue linen frock for
Saturday’s tennis at the White City. Her
gloves were Of purple hue ; so was her
handbag. She followed her husband’s play
with absorbed interest. So did Viv Mc-
Grath, Adrian Quist with sister Rhonda
and Joan Hartigan. Clothes worn by
women onlookers were cool, crisply
fresh and tubbable. Mrs. A. C. God-
hard’s blue linen suit and white adjuncts
could be classed under all three headings.
So could Mrs. John Arnott’s white linen.
Tennis intelligentsia scattered about were
the Harry Hopmans, Nancy Wynne,
Dorothy Dingle and Dot Stevenson. Enid
Halloran was there in flower-patterned
silks; one girl took pictures with her
cine camera.
To arrive at the heart of the Day Nur-
sery in Woolloomooloo you pass
through a glass door on each side of
which is a brightly-hued galah. Just in-
side the door two black cats with in-
credible whiskers arch their backs in
greeting. Visitors to the Nursery’s open
day last Friday then came upon a notice
written on a blackboard just the right
height for fives and sixes. It reminded
of a trip to the zoo —each child to be
complete with hat and hanky, and
to be at the school not later than 9.30.
All around the walls of the verandah
and the bright rooms opening on to it is
a frieze of duck and rabbit, of dog and
goose. Tom, Tom, the piper’s son, pipes
blithely away on one wall, while Little
80-peep, crook and all, presides over
her sheep on another.
While babies cooed and kicked in
their cots and playgrounds and on the
sunny roof, the older ones, in their gay
little green and red overalls, played in a
sand pile or, seated snug in a car tyre,
swung blithely. The exhibition of
students’ work downstairs drew a con-
stant procession of visitors. There are
seven first-year and five second-year
students, and what those girls can do
with cotton reels and cigarette-tins
leaves the uninitiated blinking. Cotton
reels colored, sometimes spattered with
dots, are used to teach the youngsters
color, or, again, made into long cater-
pillar-like strings, encourage Baby, who
draws them behind him, to walk. Draw-
ing and painting and the making of
woolly and wooden toys are part of the
students’ interests; and from Valerie
Berry, an attractive first-yearer, to Eliza-
beth Town, the capable and softly-
spoken director, was found the same
absorption in the work.
There are three of these Day Nur-
series now (not counting the one at-
tached to the Ashfield Infants’ Home),
and the association hopes to have two
more going in 1937. Here mothers who
have to go out working can leave their
babes from seven in the morning to six
in the evening for a very small charge.
Not only are the children minded, but
they receive training. Even the cleaning
of teeth is part of the day’s ritual. Each
youngster old enough to have teeth has
his or her own numbered mug and
toothbrush standing on shelves in the
bathrooms.
With the approach of Christmas cook-
ing takes up an important position. The
subject of this Montgomery-Dunn photo-
graph has intimate knowledge of the
stock pot, the joints and the sweets of
Europe and of the South Seas. Her
broadcasts on Italian, French and
Swedish cookery have already caught the
ear of the housewife. A broadcast on
Island cookery is now being prepared by
Mrs. Yonna and will take the air in the
new year.
A forest of gum-tips and Christmas
bells supplied the right atmosphere when
in song and poem the charm and fire of
Australian poet Chris Brennan filled the
reception-room of the Women’s Club.
Musical and literary circles had combined
for this end-of-the-year flutter, and gradu-
ates of Sydney Uni., where Chris had
brilliantly lectured, were thick in the
audience. First there was an intimate
talk on Brennan the man by Innes Kay.
then a group of his songs was sung by
Mrs. H. Keats, whose husband had com-
posed the music. The recital ended on
the rich sweep of poems read by Mr.
Dobbie, whose wife and Mrs. Vernon
Cole and Mrs. Edwards were mainly
responsible for the evening. Harry
Green, of the Fisher Library, Dame
Constance D’Arcy, Dr. Teresa Car-
michael, Grace Scobie, Kathleen Dono-
van and sculptor Theo Cowan were some
of the listeners.
Amy Hopkins, one of the daughters of
Bulletin “Hop,” is back in Sydney after
a nine months’ world tour. She is staying
with sister Dorothy at Neutral Bay.
The Royal Military College, which
has been stationed at Victoria Barracks,
is about to depart for its original home,
Duntroon. Last week the Staff Corps
mess farewelled the Commandant and
staff in a garden that bloomed green
and gay, drought an’ all. This garden
party was a friendly affair, decked with
the Staff Corps colors, red and blue, and
with fair deeds such as the handing over
by Brigadier Hardie to Brigadier Miles
of a silver rose-bowl for the mess at Dun-
troon. The mess silver and trophies
gleamed with effect against the tea-table
decorations of red roses and hibiscus and
blue delphinium and hydrangea. Colonel
Lorenzo, who is president of the mess,
and Mrs. Lorenzo and Brigadier and
Mrs. Hardie did the honors. Mrs.
Lorenzo’s suit was of hydrangea-blue
tones ; Mrs. Hardie’s frock was of navy
and white silk.
If the Navy doesn’t eventually net a
few middies out of the party on H.M.A.S.
Canberra last week, this Letter will be
surprised. From 2.30 onwards the Man-
o’-war .Steps simmered with excitement
as small girls and boys were, being tucked
aboard the shining pinnaces whose
destination was the flagship. Here the
Admiral, Captain A. G. B. Wilson, of
the Canberra, and a company of officers
waited to greet the guests and introduce
them to the slippery-slide, to the ice-
creams, to the pirates’ cave and to “Pop-
eye.” (That character’s name, by the
way, was given by one youngster in
answer to the query in the recent exam-
inations: “Who is the sailor’s friend?”)
The Admiral’s wife came to the party
and brought her guests, Mrs. Edmund
Phillips, of Melbourne, and small son
Lindsay. Ann Lane-Poole and Mrs.
A. G. B. Wilson were others actively
interested. Later in the week the ship’s
company entertained their small friends.
Every dog had his day at the
R.S.P.C.A. Gymkhana on Saturday.
This was the birthday party of Bob, pet
of everybody at “the Cross,” property
of none. Bob had a new blue collar and
lead for the occasion, and a jazz cap
with feather. On arrival at the Ravens-
wood Oval, Gordon, he stepped between
a guard of honor of small girl and boy
dog-lovers. He and each of his canine
guests received a large bone in a cello-
phane wrapper. Another high spot of
the proceedings, applauded with loud
barks and a tornado of tail-wagging, was
the distributing of the birthday cake—a
slice for each dog. Bob got in early and
snatched a hunk for himself.
This is Anne, daughter of the Admiral
Lane-Poole couple, and the Navy set in
Sydney is the brighter for her coming.
Monte Luke photo.
Pity there isn’t television when such
good-lookers as Alice Prowse raise their
voices in song before the microphone.
Alice is off in company with violinist
Phyllis McDonald and pianist Marjorie
Hesse on a broadcasting tour for the
A.B.C. They will give recitals in Q’land,
S.A., Tas. and M.L., and they have
arranged their programmes in an inter-
esting and musicianly manner. Every
recital will be devoted to the works of
a separate country or a special period.
Vested Interests and their fashionably
dressed wives and daughters arrived by
the liftful at the party in the Australia
given by banker A. C. Davidson and his
wife. The Judiciary and the Military
were represented also, and there were
some Ministers (Cabinet size), Minister
for Transport Bruxner among them.
Olive Kelso King, in chrysanthemum
browns, brought in poetry.
The ballroom of the Australia was
decked with tall gilded standards of
hydrangea, and Mrs. Davidson’s black
frock wore black velvet flowers at its
neckline and white gardenias at the
waist. Frocks for these late-afternoon
parties are worn long. Enid Riddle’s
was black, patterned in gold ; Mrs. C. L.
Jones wore a white cloque jacket with
a long black satin skirt; Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s chiffons were of Florentine blue;
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones was pretty as
ever in black chiffon and silver fox.
Thomas Buckland, the Mackay Sims,
Ernest Riddle and Major Boyle and his
wife were others of the three hundred.
Shakspeare, Lucullus and Herrick are
quoted in a circular sent out by the
Fruitgrowers’ Federation in praise of the
cherry. But the delicious fruit can speak
for itself. In Orange and in Young
(N.S.W.) the cherries are ripe, and full
and fair ones are being picked by an
army of fruit gatherers. Orange in
October is a picture when the cherry
blossom is out and sixteen hundred
acres of trees raise their flowering to the
sun. Cherry-picking in N.S.W. starts
early in November and ends about the
middle of January. With its circular,
which tells the history of the cherry, the
Fruitgrowers’ Federation sends out a
leaflet of recipes for using and preserv-
ing the fruit.
With the turmoil of the world
screamed by the newsboys still in the
ear, it was pleasant to turn into the
rooms of the United Associations the
other afternoon and hear of peace and
goodwill. The first speaker was Miss
E. Curtin, who told of the International
Peace Conference in Brussels, to which
she had gone as delegate for the N. S.
Wales Peace Campaign. Even the least
imaginative listener must have been im-
pressed with the picture the speaker
drew of that vast inaugural meeting with
its thousands of delegates from every
country and nation, inspired by the ideal
of world peace. The second speaker was
Dr. Van Kersbergen, leader of the group
known as the Ladies of the Grail. This
is a youth movement for girls. Its ideal
is spiritual as opposed to the material.
The doctor, who spoke at the invitation
of president Mrs. Kenneth Street, has
a pleasant but lightweight voice, and
uses her fine hands with distinction. Her
subjects are literature and psychology.
Every Christmas has its pervading
present—one that you send and have
sent to you, till in the end you either
laugh or yawn when the new packet
arrives. Some years it is powder puffs,
sometimes powder. Last year it was per-
fume in this Letter’s circle. This Christ-
mas is going to the dogs. Dogs of every
shape and size, dogs in china, furry dogs,
collies, dachshunds, Scotties, and dogs
that are mixtures of all, gaze adoringly
or knowingly at you from every window.
They have even taken possession of the
sweet counter, and though their little
hollow tummies are filled with chocolate
instead of gnawed bones they carry off
the situation with arch looks and a
jaunty bow at the throat.
Lace dresses, which have had their
nose put somewhat out of joint—in this
part of the world, anyway—by those of
net and marquisette, have stepped
straight into the limelight again. The
Duchesses of York, of Kent and of
Gloucester set the vogue when they ac-
cepted lace dresses from the Lace
Federation. Lace is already seen in
tunic and blouse, and shades from the
most ethereal weave to heavy crochet-
like texture. The cotton laces that look
like broderie anglaise are going to be a
boon in the making up of the collar and
cuffs to which every frock and suit is
now addicted. During Lace Week held
a month or so ago in England that coun-
try’s workers proved themselves (why
should they not with the tradition of
Nottingham and such behind them?) in
the making of cotton, wool, thread or
silk lace, in its coloring and texture, the
equal of their Continental neighbors.


GIVE YOUR BOY A
MODEL
MONOPLANE
FOR XMAS!
k
Thousands of airminded boys have derived much enjoyment from constructing
and flying the “Mirror” model monoplane. The kit, complete with all parts and
diagrams, costs 45., and makes an admirable Christmas gift for a boy. Send
4s. in postal notes to: —
MONOPLANE SPECIAL XMAS OFFER,
“Woman’s Mirror,”
252 George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE LODESTAR GALLERY
77 Elizabeth Streetj Sydney.
(Next the Carlton Hotel.)
Showing a permanent exhibition of paintings
by Leading Australian Artists.
Including Elioth Gruner, Will Ashton, Roland Wake-
lin, Arnold Shore, John D. Moore, Roi de Mestre,
Lloyd Rees, Douglas Dundas, Maud Sherwood,
Adelaide Perry, Thea Proctor, Margaret Preston,
and many others.
Hours: 11 a.m.—6 p.m.
Stella Scroggie, Director.
JOYOUS DAYS IN OLD
QUEBEC
Cl
Tim
1
5^
' n 'T
On YOUR Way to
EUROPE
The only remaining walled medi-
eval city in the new world where old
customs still prevail . . . winding,
steep cobbled streets - and just,
around the corner is the new
modern city. Here Canadian Pacific
welcomes you to Chateau Frontenac
above the Ramparts scene of
gaiety, sports and luxurious Hotel
life. You must see Quebec. Get
literature and details now
from any Tourist Booking Agency
or
QiMaJkaMffadfrc
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 WILLIAM STREET - - MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET - - - - SYDNEY
11.6.7
Melbourne
Chatter
It was disappointing, after the months
of hard work for the Union House fete,
that the weather clerk should have
turned on a bad-humored bit of winter.
On the first afternoon the Pageant of
History was grouped on the roofs of the
cloisters under threatening grey skies.
Afterwards kings and queens were faith-
less to their period costumes, slipping
1936 capes and raincoats over their
shoulders. On the second afternoon the
elements were too severe altogether for
royalty, which retreated to the sanctuary
of the Wilson Hall.
Stallholders had a worse time. Many
of them saved their wares only to see
their decorations ruined by rain ; others
found a use for tarpaulins ; many sought
new quarters on verandahs or in lecture-
rooms. Purchasers at King Canute’s
beach stall, situated in the right atmo-
sphere of a piece of real beach, a real
boat and a large umbrella, felt them-
selves to be the sort of Spartans who
go for morning swims all the year round.
The fete is to be repeated on Friday
and Saturday of this week.
As well as the wind and rain other un-
rehearsed incidents took place. Freda
Connolly as one of the afternoon wives
of Henry VIII. (he had another six for
the evening pageant), lost one of her
many petticoats while mounting the
steps to the cloisters roof, but the much-
married monarch, who was close behind,
retrieved the voluminous garment, which
he managed to tuck under his cloak.
Isobe! Crosbie as a Georgian lady re-
ceived particular praise for her costume
from one of the organisers. “I can’t
help liking it,” the lady said ; “it’s exactly
the same material as my dining-room
curtains.” Mrs. Furze-Morrish, in an
attractive starched organdie country-girl
costume at one of the Georgian cake
stalls, had the antithesis of satisfactory
criticism from conventional childhood.
Small daughter Honor wished to change
her surname for the afternoon proces-
sion: ‘T don’t want anyone to know
you belong to me, mother dear, you
look so awful.’' A Gretna Green
marriage with Colin Birmingham, Jack
Curtis, Margaret Shirwin, two horses and
a blacksmith’s forge took place on Bar-
rett’s Hill, with the band in the distance
playing “Home, Sweet Home.”
Noticed round about during the after-
noon were Hersey Brookes, as Lady
Jane Grey (all in black and ready for
her execution, with a thick veil over her
face); Mrs. O’Collins, as Mary Queen
of Scots, being served with strawberries
and cream by a young Robin Hood;
Dr. Constance Ellis, as fifty-years-a-
queen, acting as her own chauffeur,
smoking a cigarette and eating an ice
cream.
“History—and All That,” a humor-
ous pageant revue written by Keith
Macartney, was dramatised for two
evenings in the Wilson Hall. Those who
pushed and scrambled got the best seats,
for the open-air box-plan had to be
abandoned. The revue opened with
Betty Tait, as a very handsome Boadicea
giving a piece of her mind to the ancient
Britons, who were shivering in bare legs
and tiger skins. David Thomas was a
a priceless swineherd, dithery, dirty and
apparently half-witted, who roamed the
forest at the time Alfred was burning
the cakes. Then came Canute and the
Waves, very attractive ones, doing
eurhythmies in green tulle. Colin Mc-
Alpin was Richard 1., who deserted bride
Berengaria at the altar to attend to a
little bit of trouble on the Jerusalem
front. Poor Richard 11., quite unlike
the romantic figure of Richard of Bor-
deaux, was given a mirror as his chief
prop., and two wives at once. Sam
Cohen made an excellent Henry VIII.
Cynthia Sutton was first wife and Peggy
Mackay outlived him as the last. (She
has just got through her final med.
exams., and is leaving soon for a hos-
pital job in Adelaide.)
Jessie Brookes was a strong-minded
Queen Elizabeth and Dorothy Dixon a
winsome Anne Hathaway. Lavender
and cherry sellers, Nell Gwyn and other
decorative people pranced through the
reign of Charles 11. Annotations in verse
told the story of William-and-Mary,
Anne, the Georges and various other
ladies and gentlemen to the young
Queen Victoria (Rosemary Downes), and
finally the Jubilee Queen (Dr. Constance
Ellis). The finale was a bank holiday
on Hampstead Heath, with spirited
coster songs by Keith Macartney and
Marie Fawsett. The pageant was an ad-
mirable production and very fine spec-
tacle, costumes perfect in detail, design
and coloring.
Here is Betty Llewellyn, who had time
to be snapped by Broothorn during her
short stay in Melbourne. The young
visitor, seeing Australia for the first lime,
is travelling with the W. R. Lysaght
couple, of Sydney. She is as Welsh as
the “LI” in her surname, and comes
from the part of the principality where
riots recently took place. An experi-
enced horsewoman, she hunts regularly,
and is looking forward to gallops along
Australian bush tracks and occasional
exercise on the tan. In London she had
to pay 355. for a morning’s hire of a
good horse. Miss Llewellyn’s brother,
on Ecco, finished second in the last
Grand National.
W. H. Everard, Speaker of the Leg.
Assembly, and Louis Monod, sec. of the
R.A.S., were at the Heidelberg Horse
Show, an annual event, profits from
which go to the After Care Hospital of
the M.D.N.S. Harold Bartram, presi-
dent of the Horses in Action Society,
which works hard to make the show a
success, was busy in and out of the ring,
while his annual gift of a giant cheese
was being raffled in a marquee. Mrs.
Bartram was on the committee for the
real billy tea, which, in spite of being
poured from teapots, had the woody
tang of open fires and gum saplings.
Daughter Mary collected a few more
prizes as a child rider. Mrs. Coffey,
Mrs. Hickey, Mrs. Frank Dexter and
very attractive June Allen, from Black
Rock, were among winners of eques-
trienne trophies. Jean Pape, with her
two youthful plaits bobbing on her neck,
defeated competitors of both sexes in
the Johnny Dawson Plate, for pony
hunters.
With the success of previous parties
as their incentive P.L.C. Old Collegians
organised a dance at the Embassy in aid
of the Women’s College. Old Collegians'
president, Doris Moore, was guest of
honor, but there was no ceremonial
about receiving her, even the presenta-
tion of a spray of frangipanni taking
place in the cloakroom while Miss
Moore was coaxing her hands into long
kid gloves. Among committee people
were Burneice Swaine, in beige lace,
Alison Cook, in pastel-green ninon and
shoulder sash of darker green velvet, and
three of this year’s debs.—Sheila Fitz-
gerald and Ann McNab, both in their
fledging white, and Pauline Jennings,
feeling completely grown-up in her first
black frock. She is on the staff of
P.L.C. as gym. mistress, and the other
two girls are learning to be scientifically
domesticated at the Homecraft Hostel.
Among others who danced through
the evening was Yarra Yarra’s champion
associate golfer, Bessie Davidson, wear-
ing the frock of mist-blue chiffon in
which she officiated as bridesmaid in
Colombo for the marriage of her brother
Bob to Verna Cooper, of Sydney. Beth
Howden also wore blue chiffon, Ma-
donna in shade and design, for a long-
hooded cape went over the frock. Pat-
ricia Higgins, who looked charming in
apple-green satin, believes in sugar “for
energy” (or perhaps she just has a sweet
tooth), for she nibbled lumps of it be-
tween dances. Ted Lambert, who seems
to divide his time equally between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, wore three violets
in his buttonhole, according to himself
a present for abandoning a game of
squash in favor of a Women’s College
dance. Just graduated Bob Anderson
was there saying a few early good-byes
before leaving to fill a medical appoint-
ment in Perth. Joan Spencer wore
floral lame, and Julie Murphy poppy-
patterned white moire.
Catherine Duncan, of this Athol
Shmith portrait, has proved herself not
too youthful at 21 to deal with political
situations. She is producer of “Till the
Day I Die,” the Workers’ Theatre Group
play banned from Collingwood, Won-
thaggi and the Imperial Theatre, Russell-
street, and “warned off” by several other
shires, boroughs and municipalities. At
Collingwood Miss Duncan found herself
making ah impromptu speech to a crowd
of several hundred. In spite of the forces
arrayed against it she is sure the Clifford
Odets play will be produced before
Christmas.
Miss Duncan says that Workers’
Theatre Group is a deceptive title. It
doesn’t mean communism, and brain- as
well as manual-workers are among its
members. A young, unpretentious and
unwealthy body, its membership list has
grown considerably since the stir over
the banned play. Miss Duncan, who
hails originally from Launceston, fin-
ished the last few years of her schooling
at Ruyton, Melbourne, and made her
theatre debut with Theo Shall, since
which she has pursued a radio career.
The first night of “Abraham Lincoln”
and the second night of “History—•
and All That” caused some empty seats
at the Russian Ballet on Saturday.
Noticed in the audience were the E. C.
Dyason couple, who gave a garden party
the next afternoon in honor of the sec-
retary of the Bureau of Social and In-
ternational Affairs, Constance Duncan,
who has just returned from the U.S.A.,
China and Japan. To the Ballet Mrs.
Dyason wore black and a red rose
tucked into her knob of hair. Maisie
Curtis was also in black, with frangi-
panni, and Margaret Ryan wore lily-of-
the-valley in her black hair.
Danish dancer Birger Bartholin was,
for a change, on the house side of the
footlights to view his scenery of “Hun-
dred Kisses,” for the execution of which
he has had a fortnight’s holiday from
ballet. His impressionistic decor had
to be copied from a small sketch bv
Jean Hugo, who designed the scenery
and costumes for this fairy-tale ballet.
Bartholin (or Billy, as he is known in
and out of the co.) likes working on his
own creations more than following a set
pattern. All credit is due to him for
the second scene backcloth of “Fire-
bird,” a modern design of coral pinks
and reds suggestive of fairy turrets cling-
ing to forest peaks.
Leading-lady Margot Rhys, otherwise
Mrs. Dal Mein, was not able to come
from her station home for the Mel-
bourne premiere of “Uncivilised."
Director Charles Chauvel is now in the
U.S.A., but his name was represented
by his uncle, General Chauvel, who was
present with his lady. Moira Madden,
taking seriously the responsibilities of
her future film career, came to the
show at the cost of cutting a date with
Richard 11., whom she had meant to
accompany as Isobella of France to
“History—and All That.” Mrs. Nor-
man Brookes went to the Majestic, but
stayed only for the beginning of the pro-
gramme. By the time “Uncivilised” was
being screened she was at the pageant as
Caroline of Anspach, an accessory to
Georse 11.
Mrs. E. Barnes gave some of her
friends a violent shock when she told
them they would be receiving invitations
to see her exhibition of pictures. Grim
suspicions formed about the bite of the
“modern art” bug or the even more viru-
lent germ of surrealism. But the show
was a joke, though it had talent, as
would be expected from the mother of
Peggy Barnes, now Mrs. Henry Marval
of New York. Gallery Director Jimmy
MacDonald was there in caricature, gaz-
ing at squeezed-together pictures (appar-
ently in the Sydney Gallery), and plot-
ting to work them apart in spite of the
trustees. Afterwards other trustees, who
beneath their beards and war paint
turned out to be Hal Brockhoff, George
Lomas, Gil Ward and Theo Troedel,
clamored for admission to the gathering
in Mrs. Barnes’s flat, producing electric
torches for the minute examination of
the “pictures.” The fed seals affixed
to their purchases provided suitable if
unorthodox atmosphere; they were the
seals which angry creditors fix to letters
for defaulting debtors, rammed home
with “proceedings will be taken if not
paid within seven days.”


ķ
You may get temporary relief from rheumatism,
sciatica, muscular pains, gout or lumbago by the
use of pain-deadening drugs, but to be rid of them
permanently you must dissolve away the acids in
your system. COLOSEPTIC does this. It gently
stimulates and tones up the colon, thus restoring life
to its weakened walls. It restores normal alkaline
balance and also activates the three other important
eliminative organs—the pores of the skin, the kid-
neys and the respiratory system. COLOSEPTIC
means a permanent end to rheumatism and neuritis.
“Wonderful Relief
My husband and I have been using
COLOSEPTIC. Before using it my husband
was drawn down one side with rheumatism.
I myself spent pounds each winter in medi-
cines for pains in the legs. Since taking
Coloseptic we have never been so well in our
lives.
Mrs. A.M.L.
(The original of this letter can be seen at Head Office.)
ENDS RHEUMATISM
AND NEURITIS . . .
UNUSUAL
SCIENTIFIC TREATMENT
ROOTS OUT CAUSE
"Rheumatism and Neuritis are
caused by self-poisoning" . . .
says Dr. Agasse-Lafont
Scientists have now traced the cause of Rheuma-
tism and Neuritis to self-poisoning. Let this scientific
treatment—COLOSEPTlC —free you from this men-
ace to your health and happiness. Let it show you
how you can at last be free from constant torture.
Rheumatism and Neuritis cannot be overcome until
the real cause is rooted out. This, Dr. Lafont points
out, is autoxima or self-poisoning. Incomplete
evacuation of the intestines caused by to-day s
demineralized and devitalised foods, leaves acid-
forming food-waste adhering to the walls of the
colon. Opening medicines cannot remedy this.
They only purge the lower end of the bowels—■
leaving them irritated and weakened.
The decaying acid-forming waste in the colon de-
velops virulent poisons which seep into the blood
stream. The whole system becomes loaded with
uric and other acids. At every change of the
weather these acids crystallise out in razor-edged
deposits which lacerate the nerves at every move-
ment, thus causing the cruel pains of rheumatism,
neuritis, sciatica and lumbago.
Clogged
Colon.
Banish COLON CLOG and you banish rheumatism. The left illustration shows
how your colon becomes clogged. Acids from the decaying food waste
poison the blood stream, which affects every important organ in your body.
Regular bowel movements are no guarantee of safety. It is the encrustations
that must be removed. The right illustration shows the colon cleared by
COLOSEPTIC. All clogging waste has been removed, incomplete evacuation
is remedied because life has been restored to the walls and the basic cause
of rheumatic affections has been swept away.
Unclogged
Colon.
AT ALL
CHEMISTS
Individual
Size . . 2/9
Family
Size . . 5/6
FRE£—Liberal Sample of COLOSEPTIC. Mail the coupon for a free
trial sample of COLOSEPTIC. You'll receive it by return mail and. in addition, an interesting book
felling you more about the vital and intimate subject of autoxima will be sent to you—FREE.
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
W
Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD HARKLESS ALBERT WALTON
FRANCIS, or any person knowing his presen:
whereabouts or recent movements, please com
municate with the undersigned? The sa:c
Harkless Albert Walton Francis was former!)
of 71 O'Connell Street, North Adelaide, anc
was last heard of in Sydney in 1928.
PERCY L. WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Solicitors,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TO WILLIAM COUCH.—WILLIAM COUCH,
a nephew of one William Couch, formerly ot
Sandietown, near Timaru, New Zealand, is re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned
for the purpose of claiming a legacy bequeathed
to him in the will of Patrick Mechen, late ot
Timaru, deceased.
ALLEN. ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA
An o.s. wedding-bell hung over the
chancel steps and golden gladioli
decked the assies when Clem Dyer and
Zoe Davidson exchanged vows at St.
Mary s, South Perth. The bridal wu e
satins were square cut at the neck, fitted
with tight sleeves, pleated as to train
and surmounted by an all-enveloping tulle
veil. Matron-of-honor Mrs. Langlois
Hancock topped picturesque marigold
taffetas with a matching hat and
carried Peruvian lilies; the ’maids,
Rockie and Lauri Davidson, were girt
with daffodil georgettes, puff-sleeved,
panel-pleated and trained. As a van-
guard went little Jean Ryan swishing
primrose-spotted net while she scat-
lered rose-petals. A.’plane, piloted by
Brian Holmes, followed the couple to
Fremantle and hovered over the
Katoomba, dropping confetti on the ship
as it carried them off for the honey-
moon.
The spooky decorative scheme devised
by the committee of the ‘‘Witches’
Revels” cabaret suited the Como
Pagoda to a nicety. A frieze of witches
from the brushes of Kay and Pat Kin-
nane stalked round the walls in com-
pany with gaunt skeletons; crimson
streamers were woven into ominous
spider-webs and lights were hidden in
a mass of exotic flowers. Kay Kinnane
matched the webs with her luminous
red velvets, Pat threw a misty film of
net over her black satins and Joyce
Grano’s white taffetas were submerged
in spotted tulle. Mrs. T. D. Murphy
ran a silver stripe down her black
cloque, Lorna Sydney-Smith spilled
multicolored flowers on her bouffant
taffetas, and Dorothy McCarthy’s creamy
georgettes folded into sunray pleatings.
The Historical Society wound up its
season with an overflowing party at the
Karrakatta Club. There were musical
S'—
Edj , h Cowan - presented by , Birt .
w j st i e highlight of the evening was
old-time Wedding,” a dramatisa-
pon by Canon Burton of the marriage
G f Henry Campbell and Ann Breeze,
which took place in the octagonal
church at Middle Swan in 1840. Eliza-
beth Hatch as the bride, E. Clifton as
the bridegroom and Canon Burton as
the officiating chaplain were supported
by a large cast.
The Rev> w. Patrick tied the matri-
monial knot between Oliver Affleck
Finlay, scion of the J. H. Finlays, of
Kyabram, Vic., and Betty, only daugh-
ter of t h e G. W. Wickens. The bride’s
ivory taffeta foundation frock was
COV ered with soft silk net, tier-frilled on
t b e skirt, high at the neck and finished
with a flat frill-edged collar. The em-
broidery on her tulle veil was rich as
the gardenias in her bouquet. Kath
Tracy and Joan McDonald followed in
her wake.
A Quaker wedding,- the second in
W.A., was celebrated at the home of
the society’s registrar, F. B. Creeth, at
Cottesloe, when Enid Lightfoot was mar-
ried to J. E. H. Oaks. The ceremony
wa s performed in the flower-decked
drawing-room, where the bride’s tulle
veil fell from a coronet of daisies over
white angel-skin lace. Bride’s atten-
dants, Marian Lightfoot and Dorothea
Cass, tied rose and mauve sashes about
their lilac blue chiffons,
At the tea given in her honor by
members of the Karrakatta Club La
Meri’s outfit gave a slight forecast of
the dressing one would see at the per-
formance. Her smart, creamy ensemble
was flanked by wide caped sleeves and
flowers were appliqued over the whole
of the crown and most of the brim of
her large biscuit straw hat. President
Mrs. W. H. Vincent, whose floral georg-
ettes were at the portals, took daugh-
ters Helen and Eyla to His Majesty’s
for the opening night.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
It was hard luck that the Empire
Pageant at the Oval should have fallen
on a day when the thermometer soared
to 102, with hardly a breath of air. Over
1200 men, women and children col-
lapsed and had to be carried away on
stretchers. A casualty ward behind the
grandstand kept 20 nurses going their
hardest.
The pageant was an amazing sight,
vividly colorful, especially in the Indian
scene, in which hundreds took part.
Unfortunately the back legs of the
elephant fainted owing to the heat, and
an understudy had to rush across the
Oval to take his place. The men of the
v.-r. party in black frock coats and high
hats were objects of sympathy. Lady
Dugan, accompanying his Ex., wore
a beige and navy chiffon frock and a
navy balibuntal straw hat. Mrs. Hasel-
den chose a black-and-white ensemble
and a black hat banded with white
ribbon. Mrs. Adey (wife of the Direc-
tor of Education) was in powder-blue.
The Ritchie lady, in a brown-and-white
ensemble, and Jean Butler, who repre-
sented her mother, were onlookers.
Boys took a prominent part in the
pageant. Hundreds were dressed as
Grenadier Guards, and so well drilled
that his Ex. complimented them when
he inspected the guard of honor. Also
there were Yeomen of the Guard and
Indian braves with feathers in their
hair and hatchets in their hands. India
afforded the boys a chance to vie with
the girls in splendor. Dressed in the
brightest and richest of satins, each
rajah, followed by his retinue and his
dancing girls, marched to music on to
the Oval. Pastel tonings were chosen
for the dancers, their chiffon veils sup-
plying a contrasting color.
The Women’s Non-party Association
held its annual dinner at Arcadia Cafe,
with Rev. Winifred Kiek presiding. Miss
Glasson described how women in S.A.
won the vote, and gave a diverting de-
scription of the early campaigns for
suffrage.
Many people have the idea that our
centenary concludes this year, but it
carries on to the end of March. The
Centenary Grand Prix race on Decem-
ber 26 is attracting so many visitors to
Victor Harbor that every available
hotel, boarding-house or flat was
booked up months ago. All our wealthy
folk who have summer houses down
there will have large house parties.
Mrs. R. Wood, of. Sydney, is in Adel-
aide on a visit, the guest of her son-in-
law and daughter, Dr. and Mrs. D.
Robson Wallman, New Hindmarsh.
TASMANIA.
At a grey and chilly Elwick nobody
dared expose spring frocks to the cold
wind that swept the course. Chairman
A. J. Miller and the committee tea'd a
big crowd, among them Lieut.-Col. and
Mrs. R. B. Johnson (N.S.W.), Capt. and
Mrs. J. R. Johnson, the Thos. Lyons
pair, the Russell Ibbotts, the Alan
Millers, Dr. and Mrs. Shugg, the Jim
Brocks, Mrs. Geoff Chapman and her
guest Mrs. R. Gilder (N.S.W.), the Leslie
Gibsons. Major and Mrs. Strutt, the
James Murrays, the Norman Fergusons,
the H. C. Ikins, the two Pringle girls,
Sybil Lyons and Betty Lencken.
Zoe Anderson, before she became
Mrs. - George Crawford, had farewell
parties galore and two presentations, one
from the proprietors and literary staff of
the “Examiner” (a silver tea-and-coffee
service), the other from the A.J.A. (a
travelling case.). The president of the
A.J.A. mentioned that Zoe was the first
woman journalist it had thus honored.
The wedding in Launceston Grammar
School chapel was a picturesque affair.
The bride, having the courage of her
opinions, was married in pale green,
even to the veil, which fell from under a
spray of gardenias. Silver brocadings
garnished the turnout. Meg Anderson
and Nola Crawford, the ’maids, wore
white chiffon frocks with pale-green
sashes, the long ends falling to the
ground.
Homing birds from overseas this week
included the C. B. Davies pair, the Henry
Allports and the. J. Scott-Powers. Heads
of the various departments of Davies
Bros, gave the managing director a
welcome-home dinner, and many social
functions are in the offing for the women-
folk of the three families.
The Lord Mayor’s function for the
committee of the newly-formed Tas-
manian Society and its friends was an
elaborate affair. About 150 guests
gathered at the Town Hall. Lady Clark,
in violet georgette, came with the Gov-
ernor. The Lady Mayoress was in black
chiffon velvet. Most of the notabilities
rolled up, including Nicholls, C.J., and
his lady, Bishop and Mrs. Snowdon
Hay, the Lewis lady, A. L. Wardlaw,
M.L.C. ('northern chairman of the
society), the head of Hutchins and Mrs.
Harris, the E. T. Emmetts and others.
Mabel Gibson held an exhibition last
week of pottery at her home in High-
street, Launceston. A spatula, rubber,
penknife, and sponge are her sole tools,
and it is almost incredible that the lovely
and quaint productions she shows could
have been formed by these simple means.
Mrs. Bushby and daughter Victoria
are back in the north after their world
tour. They went by Panama and New
York to England, ventured into Southern
Europe in spite of warnings and rumors
of wars, and then went to China, stay-
ing some, time in Hong Kong.


The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24'6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
XHE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, fop {in., fin. and {in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
nse, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
k
IVE a Globite Case ... for
travel, school, business,
sport or ordinary everyday
use. Globites are smart,
light and strong . . . sold
at local stores. All sizes.
ķ
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
“J.W.”: The sensible suggestion has
been made that headquarters of the
British-China naval station should be
shifted for part of the year from Wei-
hai-Wei to Darwin. For all practical
purposes the fleet is useless in N. China ;
real British influence now reaches only
tenuously above Hong Kong. Darwin
has a better harbor than Wei-hai-Wei,
and the climate and surroundings are
more pleasant. The new quarters would
make the Australia-London air route
much safer, and with Singapore base
and Trincomalee in Ceylon, where a
vast naval and air headquarters has been
built, would form the final nip in a
pair of pincers—very awkward for any
enemy fleet to get into. At Darwin there
would be no danger of attack from land
at the rear, and 6000 naval ratings and
probably another 4000 or 5000 people to
provide for them would be added to the
population of the Far
North. It would be
a great help to the
cattle business, and
might result in the de-
velopment of an agri-
cultural industry. In
effect, Aus t r alia’s
naval forces would in-
crease from 4000 to
over 10,000, which
might shame the Com-
monwealth Defence
Department into pro-
viding decent land
and air defence.
* *
“Passage Pilot”:
The proposal to grant
a liquor license to the
tourist islands in
Whitsunday Passage
is causing a bit of a
stir. So far three
applications have been
made, each from a
different island, and
the Licensing Com-
mission has decided to
inspect. If the weather
is decent there would
be worse things than
being a licensing com-
missioner while that trip is on. Knowing
all the islands well, I reckon it would be
a gross injustice to single out any one
of them for a license. Each of the appli-
cants has laid out thousands to develop
the tourist trade ; and, though having no
bar would not necessarily cripple the
unlucky ones, trade would be drawn to
where the froth could be blown. There
can’t be any reasonable objection to
allowing each island a license. They are
far enough apart.
* * * *
“Eungella”: There will be some cries
of rage from other coastal towns if, as
is reported locally, Bowen is to be the
North Queensland stage on the London-
Australia flying-boat service. It is a
good centre, its harbor one of the finest
in Australia. The stages on the. Austra-
lian end of the journey, if the town is
included, will be: Darwin to Karumba
(Normanton), 700 miles; Karumba to
Bowen, 500 miles ; Bowen to Brisbane,
625 miles. And Bowen has the advan-
tage of being well defended. If you don’t
believe me, I refer you to the report of
the local scribe: —•
There was practically a 100 p.c. roll-up
at last parade of the militia, held on Wed-
nesday night, when a further issue of equip-
ment was made. Most of them have now
been served with khaki uniforms, forage
caps, belts, bayonet frogs, ammunition
pouches, etc., and boots.
* * * *
“East' Point”: They still breed ’em
tough in the North, as witness the per-
formance of a man named Daniels out
on the Never Never of the Barkly at
Eva Downs (N.T.). Having trouble with
the petrol choke on his truck, he got
underneath, screwed the pipe tap off his
tank to free the blockage and was screw-
ing it back when an onlooker lit a match.
It is hot on Eva and there is plenty of
vaporisation, so up went the petrol.
Both Daniels’s arms were enveloped in
flames, but he went on screwing up the
tap till the tank was sealed. The truck
was practically uninjured, but they had
to bring a doctor to take Daniels a few
hundred miles to Tennant Creek for
treatment.
•i*
“Washee Washee”: I nominate Cairns
(N.Q.) as the cleanest town in Austra-
lasia. It's population is 12,500. The city
engineer reports that in October it used
60,100,000 gallons of water.. This is about
4800 gallons per head (including babies
"Before toastin' the 'appy couple , I'm sure you'll all be int'rested to know that Strawberry 'ad
twins early this mornin'!"
in arms), or 24,000 gallons per average
family—say 775 gallons per family per
day. On the. record day of the month
2,348,000 gallons were used, or over
1000 gallons per average family. But
who cares about water in Cairns? So
much rain falls there that it is said the
locals can be identified by their web feet.
* * * *
“Kauin Kauin”: The story of the
hard-luck ports (B. 11/11 /’36) is one that
runs right round Australia. On the
Queensland coast are two great ports
almost entirely ignored by shipping—
Gladstone and Bowen. Just what For-
rest did for Fremantle in despite of
Albany, so Philp did for Townsville, to
spoil Bowen, and Kidston did for Rock-
hampton to nark Gladstone. When in
1846 Barney decided that Port Curtis
(Gladstone) was a better if less pictur-
esque harbor than Port Jackson, and
should be the site of the Gladstone
Colony, he decided entirely well, and his
judgment has been approved by the best
expert opinion that has ventured any
comment since. But, instead of Glad-
stone, the State became committed to the
expensive and wretched berthing at
Port Alma and in the Fitzroy proper.
So with Bowen. When Towns had his
historic row with the local bumbles
and betook his outfit to Townsville, there
the “port” stayed and Bowen languished.
Both seem to be sneaking back into their
own on the sheer merits of their virtue
as ports, and this end is being helped
by the development of the, hinterlands.
Gladstone has been given an extra fillip
in this direction since the R.A.N. has
chosen Hervey Bay for an exercise area.
* * * #
“El V.”: W. P. Payne, chairman of
the Queensland Land Board, and W. D.
Fletcher have been appointed two of
three members of a commission to inquire,
into Northern Territory affairs, particu-
larly pastoral affairs. The Bulletin ad-
vocated Payne’s appointment three years
ago. He is the outstanding authority in
the North on pastoral organisation ; it
would be a good thing if some arrange-
ment could be made whereby the pas-
toral administration of the N.T. could be
handed over to his permanent super-
vision. Fletcher, at 30, was manager of
Gladstone meatworks. He is one of the
brightest brains in Queensland. He had
one term in the Queensland Parliament,
but he had no patience with Parliamen-
tary methods. In recent years he has
made a great success as a grazier in the
Gulf Country and has worked wonders
in stock and property improvement.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
At the cricket match almost every
woman’s eyes were behind large colored
glasses, rimmed with all the colors of
the rainbow. Many went hatless, their
semi-shingles tied up with Alice bows.
The Governor was the guest at a lun-
cheon given by the Queensland Cricket
Association, and Forgan Smith kept him
company. Roger Hartigan also was
among the official guests ; and the Roger
Hartigans and daughter Patricia gave a
supper dance at Lennon’s, at which
several of the English team were present.
Mrs. Hartigan looked cool in lemon
floral georgette, and Patricia wore petal-
pink brocade, with an overdress of
cloudy-grey net.
Mrs. Graeme Gibson, of London
fOntario), and her small son are in Bris-
bane, staying with the Dudley Camerons.
Mrs. Gibson was Mary Cameron, daugh-
ter of the late Dr. Malcolm and Mrs.
Cameron.
Dr. Millice Culpin thoroughly enjoyed
his ninetieth birthday party, to which all
the family in this part of the globe rolled
up. There were cables from his medico
son in England and from a sister, also
over there. Daughter Daisy Culpin came
down from Toowoomba, where she is
principal of the Fairholme Girls’ Col-
lege.
Isabel Andrews and Mrs. Dailey Scar-
lett received the guests at Dr. Dailey
Scarlett’s studio for the Handel Society’s
Christmas party. Music, games and
competitions kept the 60 adherents of
Handel who attended busy through a
late sitting.
All sorts of parties are being planned
for the birdwomen who will take part
in the Brisbane to Adelaide air-race—
luncheons, cocktail parties and various
other doings. Mrs. G. U. Allen is put-
ting up Nancy Bird.
The James Allans, their daughter Mrs.
Eric Boden and granddaughter Mary
Boden have left for Sydney. The Allans
and Mary go on to Tasmania, and then
cross the creek to Melbourne to stay
awhile with Professor Marshall Allan
and his wife —she was Polly Bracker,
member of the well-known Queensland
pastoralist clan.
The 60 girls who are doing the Y.A.L.
tour to Tassie have been lucky in the
matter of chaperons. Mrs. A. E.
Moore is the, chief one. Her daughter-
in-law, Mrs. Euston Moore, who, as Miss
Mackay, had a good deal of experience
in this job, is assisting her, together with
Marga Harrold.
Queensland pianist Eddie Cahill seems
to have found London kind to the wan-
dering minstrel. Early in November
Eddie, assisted by Reginald Forsythe
(the Tasmanian film star who played
opposite Lilian Harvey in “Black Roses”),
gave a pianoforte recital at 28 Kensing-
ton Court, the residence of Dowager
Lady Swaythling, in
aid of the King
George V. Memorial
fund. H.R.H. Princess
Beatrice was patron-
ess, and H.H. Princess
Marie Louise went
along to listen.
Mrs. Harold Clapp,
who is best remem-
bered in Queensland
as Vivienne Noel,
came up after writ-
ing, producing and
staging a successful
play in the cause of
charity. Daughter
Mrs. Geoffrey Smith
came with her, but
they spent only a few
hours in Brisbane ; the
rest' of their time they
were at the Clapp
property on the
Downs, which Bob
Clapp manages.
Doris Margaret
Willson, younger
daughter of the H. H.
Willsons, Eagle Junc-
tion, and Roy
Waraker Beardmore,
younger son of the
late E. Russell Beard-
more and Mrs. Beard-
more, of Taringa, were married on
November 28 at St. Andrew’s Church,
Creek-street. Bridegroom is a grandson
of the pioneer pastor of the first Con-
gregational church in Toowoomba. The
bride wore cream mariette and a halo
cap with a three-quarter length veil, and
carried water-lilies and gardenias. Her
sister, Mrs. W. L. Burns, was matron of
honor.
For the house party at Nindooimbah,
the home of Mrs. Willie Collins, C. B.
Fry and Eileen Moore motored over
to join Hugo Brassey’s sister, Mrs. A. D.
Poliak, down from Dunk with her hus-
band, and Mollie Brenan. The once-
great cricketer wandered round the
estate and made friends with the em-
ployees.
Our repertory society is as good as a
matrimonial bureau. Two of its mem-
bers, Gwen Campbell and T. G. Mac-
Minn, who have just announced their
engagement, are the fourth pair of Rep.
players to do so recently. Congratula-
tory parties will be staged before
Christmas.


FOLLOW THE TESTS
/" RICKET is now the?i«*H< '
Will Australia retain the', Cun food-
man continue his record-brefc&wg- -v&y#
Hammond rival Bradman? . . .
and one other queries are raised.^
Enjoy the commentary of the Test
comfort of your own arm-chair. Own a
Radio Receiver marketed in Austrc&> :; by
R.S.& for their Parent Company, that
organization The General Electric Company U&g
of England.
There are plenty of models to choose from. Table,
Console and Radiogram models . . . Dual-Wave
or Broadcast . . . Battery operated or All Electric
• . . all of singular design and unsurpassable value.
GEHALE
RADIO
fiTAM R;
AUTHORISED "GENALEX" DEALERS IN ALL CENTRES
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.
LTD.
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Perth, Hobart and Launceston
Sole Agents at Brisbane and Adelaide.
A “GENALEX” RADIO MAKES AN IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT.
I
M
P
E
X
V»
I
»2
OXYGENATED
Dry Batteries for punch, stamina and
longer life. Newest invention in radio.
Impex. Ltd., Abbotsford, Victoria; and
ISI Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO-
at wholesale prices.
VALVES—Battery valves "-volt 23‘-
5 ;--
HIO6, 8605, C 603 power. 5/- 201 A..4/6.
All 100% tested on ‘Palec” tester.
AERO DIALS —Radiokes No. 7/14..3/6.
MICA condensers “Impex” .01 1/-.
CRYSTALS—Mighty Atom lOd.
LEARN MORSE —Complete key, buzzer,
battery and Morse chart 4/-.
KEYS only 15/-, 19/6, 25/- each.
HEADPHONES —1000 ohms light-
weight ...7/6.
Price list of parts posted on request.
BATTERY' SUPERHET. —Six stage
4-valve, complete in floor cabinet,
Amplion speaker, latest valves,
100 amp. battery, 3 lI.D. Batteries.
Aerial and Earth £l3/2/6.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. ’Phone: FX5494.
RADIO NEWS.
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
What excellent hearing the broad-
casters among them make of sport!
This listener would make an exception
of tennis; at any rate, the “Perry to
Crawford, Crawford to Perry, Perry to
Crawford —out” formula of its broad-
casters has always left him cold.
The game is probably too fast for
broadcasting. The particular excellence
of any shot is a flash to the eye too
subtle to be instantly translated into
words.
About the pick of all sport on the air
is racing ; and, unless they have some-
body extraordinarily good at it in South
Australia or the West—from which
places this listener has not yet heard
racing described—the pick of all our
broadcasters of this sport must be the
chap who does the “national” descrip-
tions from Victorian courses. The Syd-
ney man has his points; is pretty accu-
rate, has a voice that is no infliction on
the ear, and his pre-post comments on
the horses are seldom belied by their run-
ning. Generally, he is informative, clear
and competent. The B-class chaps can’t
be judged. Relegated to eyries outside
the tracks, they labor under difficulties.
But this Victorian is a genius in his
line. His voice is good ; clear, precise,
with enough peculiarity of intonation to
give it individual character. He has
humor, and the sense to use it only for
spicing. He builds up quickly a picture
of the course, whether it’s a long or
short straight, where the furlong posts
are, the sort of day, the crowd. When it
comes to the race the listener 400 miles
or so away has a backgrouhd ; and it’s
when it does conic to the race that this
broadcaster is uncommonly well worth
listening to.
His strongest asset is a sense of the
dramatic. To him a race is not merely a
sporting event; it is an intensely drama-
tic episode. The remarkable thing about
him is that he retains this outlook after
years of broadcasting ; most would have
—and have—dropped into a formula
long ago. With most, one race is merely
the. previous race, using different names.
With him every race is an entirely sepa-
rate episode.
This listener has yet to hear the Vic-
torian bungle a race or any part of one.
From the time the horses go on to the
track till “Weight” he is interesting. If
there is a delay at the start, there is
something about the runners, their
trainers or owners or the Turf generally
that he can turn into entertainment. In
describing the actual running he has ex-
traordinary talent. He is not merely
accurate: he has a style in the same
"Y' know , Ma, I reckon We ought to get one of these wireless
sets so’s We can get the market reports up to date.”
sense that a writer may have a style.
Whether there are three starters or 23,
his broadcast has a clear-cut pattern.
Instantly, with the jump-out, the listener
knows,what is in the first three or four,
and what has had the worst of the start.
As they stretch out you get a sense of
movement never conveyed by written
description, except, perhaps, in Gordon-
ish verse. Any change that means any-
thing in the running is spotted instantly.
As they head for the judge, the tempo
of the description livens, to the sharp
phrases and snappy sentences that con-
vey in terms and sound the idea of the
finish.
If broadcasting has any regular per-
former as good in his particular line,
one listener would like to hear of him.
A regular calling himself the Radio
Roundsman (2BL) makes good hearing,
or he did the night this listener caught
him interviewing Wallace, skipper of
the yacht Wanderer. Wallace, who had
searched the seas for the Viking, the
sound-looking craft that disappeared
with its crew of six, would speculate no
farther than to say that the Viking had
an extra-big cockpit and may have taken
a sea into it and been swamped. Between
interviewer and interviewed an excellent
idea of the Wanderer’s vovage was put
over. There was a salty taste about Wal-
lace’s account of having left in a reef
wreck some time ago enough provisions,
spirits and the like to keep any party
that might happen to pile up there alive
for 10 days or so. The Roundsman
probably doesn’t always strike so good a
mike performer -as Wallace, but he’s a
regular worth sampling.
St. Andrew's Night, with the promise
of “Scots melodies” from 2BL, sounded
attractive, but the melodies were about
as Scotch as a moujik lamenting a
bender on vodka —or so it seemed to this
listener. The singing was all right, and
the music also; but it was folk stuff
highly civilised, sounding as if it might
have been sheeted home to any of half
a dozen countries. The original folk-
songs may have gone like that; the feel-
ing was that they didn’t, but had had
polite hands laid on them, and been con-
verted from the native wood-note wiid
into plaintive chamber music.
But' a twist of the dial brought up
Scotia well and truly, though with no
evident relationship to St. Andrew—Mr.
Jock Garden, M.P., rending down a cer-
tain “rotten corrupt body” as axle-
grease for some political chariot —sound-
ing mighty like one of soapbox design—
that he’d mounted for a fiery quarter
hour. One thing in favor of the Sydney
Labor station —they don’t suffer from
over-politeness round there. They might
be classed as crude by some ; but they’re
an antidote to smugness, and sound
closer to the bare bones of life than most
broadcasters. Jock himself talks twice
too fast for broadcasting. Also he’s get-
ting more Scotch the longer he lives in
exile from his beloved homeland; and
his burr, plus his pace, makes a pretty
thick soup.
Unexpectedly fair entertainment in a
“national” palaver from 3AR done by
Professor G. S. Browne and Dr. G. L.
Wood, which august personages, billed
to discuss “Man and His Environment,"
or something to that weighty effect,
turned out to be Gordon and George,
like a couple of genuine familiars of the
kids’ hours, though which of the learned
men answered to Gordon and which to
George this listener failed to gather.
Anyway, they’re evidently more than
casual mike performers, and their
“debate,” to one who has no particular
fancy for such entertainment, was sur-
prisingly good listening.
All Round the Dial.
“Aus. Jane”: Mrs. Robert Bell, one of
Queensland’s best-known concert and
radio singers, who went to London a
couple of years ago, has composed several
Maori numbers which have been broad-
cast by the 8.8. C. Mrs. Bell was one
of the first Australian singers to get a
try-out with the 8.8. C. television broad-
casts.
* * * *
“R.S.”: Of 176,000 questionnaire
forms issued early in the year to radio
licensees by Maoriland’s National Broad-
casting Service, 80,000 were completed
and returned. The majority of listeners
voted for a reduction of classical, sym-
phonic and chamber-music items. The
most popular nights for “listening-in”
are Monday, Tuesday and Saturday in
that order. Friday (shopping night) is
radio’s “flop night.” A total of 38 per
cent, affirmative answers were received
to the question, “Do you dance to broad-
cast dance music?”
* * % *
“J.F.C.”: Had the scheme not been
frowned on by a Labor Government
then in power, radio history would have
been made in Westralia at the Wynd-
ham meatworks. Late manager McGhie
was convinced that much time and labor
would have been saved by installing
radio on outstations and cattle camps
supplying the works with killers, and he
brought up from the south The Bulle-
tin’s Don B. Knock, who set to work
and tested a scheme utilising short
wave. The preliminary tests were suc-
cessful, and the work was well in hand
when the Government called a halt.
That was when radio was not the every-
day affair it now is ; but I’ll bet my dual-
waver to a crystal that McGhie’s plan is
a commonplace of cattle marketing in
Australia within a few years from now.
* * * *
The A.B.C. in its “Young Australia”
programmes proposes to bring forward
some of the young students who are just
finishing courses of studies at various
conservatoriums in Australia.
* * * *
“Querex”: Soviet Russia is making
practical use of television. Locks on a
canal between Moscow and the Volga
are controlled from a central point, and
the official on duty is able to observe
the entry of ships into the lock by look-
ing at a television screen.


wm.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d.. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
« BOYAIi ARCADE, SIDNEY.
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15//.
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, fo-r free illustrated
literature NO W.
Buya B Battery-Operated
RADIO and SAVE MONEY
ve
mus
ess
■m*.
mmm
mam
iver
it
BOTH IN INITIAL
COST AND UPKEEP
an all-electric set
without
: B-Batteries cost
|i? ; r | -|
our Jfe /ur||| Bfj|| rt+eries last for months
ion relieve you
of ih&Movhl&btid 4 x P en^%°^r f^ ua T :rec^ ar^‘ n s' B-Batteries
give the smoothest
and most reliable
power.
Therefore, see that
your new set is B-
Battery equipped.
I ill
imm
mmm.
mmm.
to 11 A
PfP&
vo LT
*
sss!§!s
EH*- 45
pO T<
Si::*;
*
Tl* 1
Vlt
WMmm*
rj,A T
ill
m
mmm
ffimm
■>y»:
WM
mm.
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS
PTY. LTD.
119 Hawke St.. West Melbourne
D.X.3
DIAMOND P 5 RADIO BATTERIES
for improved performance and qreater economy
AUTOMATIC SENDER FOR
TRANSMITTERS.
Now and then the need arises in any
amateur Ration for a device which, left
unattended, will continue to send out
a prearranged call for a given time.
An automatic apparatus of this kind
should be found particularly useful with
ultra-short-wave DX. In Australia there
arc several amateurs in various States
who have receivers capable of hand-
ling keyed C.W. signals on five metres ;
but actual DX in inter-State contacts has
not yet been achieved two-way, and
hand-keying a transmitter for long
periods in the hope that somebody might
hear the signal is tedious. The chances
of overseas reception are perhaps even
more forlorn. Given a good stable trans-
mitter, such as the one outlined in B.
11/11/’36, it is not very difficult to rig
up something that can be left to itself
for a few hours. GSJZ publishes details
of a clever arrangement in “Television”
(England). The basis is a strip of 9mm.
cine film and a cheap emery grinder,
such as may be obtained from the chain
stores for 2s. 6d.
Materials required are an electric
motor for four- or six-volt input; a
length of cine film, 9mm. ; a baseboard,
4ft. 6in. long, 6in. wide, lin. thick ; and
sundries, such as terminals and some old
condenser vanes.
Those not accustomed to the 9mm.
film will see on examination that the
perforations are in the centre ; by tak-
ing a razor blade and cutting out the
strip of film from one perforation to
another a “dot” is formed, and by cut-
ting out a strip of film between three
perforations a “dash” is obtained.
By leaving one space or picture
between dashes which form the same
letter, three spaces between two letters,
and five spaces between two words, the
correct spacing and sending are obtained.
Therefore by taking a length of film
and cutting between the perforations
one can prepare a length to send “CQ”
three times, “de” once and callsign three
times, or any other desired combination.
When the film has been prepared the
two ends are cemented together to form
an endless belt and left to dry. The
handle is taken off the emery wheel and
fitted in its place is a Hin. pulley. Also,
in place of the emery wheel itself, is
fitted a 2in. pulley. Two pieces of round
ebonite bolted between washers are satis-
factory.
The gearbox has a turnscrew at the
base for fixing to a table. This is re-
moved and a screw inserted in the hole,
while the gearbox is screwed to a 2in.
by 2in. by lin. block of wood, which is
in turn fixed to the baseboard about 9in.
from the motor end.
A cotton-reel pulley is then made up.
The film is placed over the pulley of
gearbox (handle side) on to the cotton-
reel pulley, which is screwed to the
baseboard. Make sure the film is taut
and that it runs square on the pulleys,
which must be in a straight line.
Then comes the contact guide. This
is cut from an old brass condenser vane,
the size required being lin. by l|in.
The two ends are bent up to form a U-
shape so that the film runs easily between
the sides. Care should be taken to make
the brass guide perfectly smooth where
the film enters. A small bolt should be
soldered to the bottom to enable the
guide to be bolted on to a three-ply
panel. A connection is then made from
the bolt to a terminal mounted on the
panel. The top contact consists of a stiff
spring, such as a large safety-pin. The
end of the pin should be rounded and
the other end fixed under a second
terminal. The rounded end of the pin
must be adjusted so that it makes good
contact with the brass guide and is in
the exact centre of the trough.
Fix the motor and connect the belt
from the driving pulley to the pulley
on the gearbox. See that the film runs
easily over .the guide, and adjust the
contact as soon as the top contact finds
a space in the film. It will then con-
nect with the bottom guide, and as the
film runs through the circuit will be
made and broken according to the pre-
pared film. The small original perfora-
tions are not large enough to make a
contact, so should not give any trouble.
The -sender can be connected across
the key without the use of relays.
Operators of high-power transmitters, or
using different keying systems, may find
a relay necessary.
This sender has been in use at GSJZ
for many months, and has given no
trouble whatsoever; also the film showed
no sign of wear. A resistance should be
in series with the motor, so enabling the
speed of sending to be varied to indivi-
dual requirements. The original model
has been placed under the operating
table entirely out. of sight, and is in
almost daily use.
DON B. KNOCK.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
1937 Air Chief Car Radio.
The new 1937 Air Chief car radios
are now on the market, and are available
in three models —single-unit model, £24
10s. ; two-unit, £27 ; de luxe, £3l 2s. 6d.
The single-unit model is suitable only for
installation in cars having a six-eight-volt
ignition system. Receiver and speaker
are housed in the set, which can be
neatly mounted under the dash, with the
controls fitted into the instrument panel.
The two-unit model can be installed in
any make of car, both six-eight volt and
12-16 volt. Three types of speakers are
available —a flush type, for fitting into
the header bar; an external header bar
type and an under-dash type. Both sets
feature every improvement to modern car
radio, and in performance are claimed to
equal the best home console models.
The de luxe model is for installation
where two speakers operating in parallel
on the one set are desired. It comprises
the two-unit model with the flush or
external header bar speaker, together with
the Bin. speaker mounted under the dash.
All speakers and receivers are attrac-
tively finished in smart light-colored suede
to match the interior trim of cars. With
the 1937 Air Chief car radio there is
available a complete range of control
panels specially designed to suit all makes
of cars. Further information can be
obtained from any of General Motors-
Holden’s dealers or distributors, who
will arrange for an immediate installation
if desired.
* * * *
The well-known British Eddystone
short-wave products are now represented
•in Australia by a prominent experi-
menter, R. H. Cunningham (VK3ML), of
397 High-street, Glen Iris (Vic.), who for-
wards a well-illustrated catalogue. In
this are listed interchangeable coils for
all waves, six-pin coil bases, ultra-short-
wave interchangeable coils on Frequen-
tite strips, air-tuned I.F. transformers,
mica-tuned I.F. transformers, u.-s.-w.
H.F. chokes, multiple honeycomb R.F.
chokes, screened R.F. chokes, mica trim-
mers on Frequentite and variable con-
dencers, stand-off insulators and dials of
all kinds. Not the least attractive item
to the amateur transmitter is a steel rack-
frame for transmitter design selling at
745. 6d. At the last Sydney Amateur
Radio Exhibition an Ideal superhet, ex-
hibited by VK2NO, used Eddystone
band-setter and tuning condensers.


This advertisement, an extract from the Prospectus, is published for information
only, the shares to be issued having been subscribed for. It is not an invitation to
subscribe for shares, and does not fully comply with the requirements of the Com-
panies Act. A printed copy of the Prospectus was filed with the Registrar-General
(of the State of Victoria) on the 4th day of December, 1936.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of issue of
300.000 SHARES OF 5/- EACH
ADELAIDE BREWING CORPORATION. LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria under the Companies Act, 1928.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL—£ISO,OOO, divided into 600,000 shares of 5/- each, OF WHICH
300,000 shares are now offered for subscription, payable in full on application,
100,000 shares of 5/- each, fully paid, are to he Issued to The Adelaide Brewery
Limited (Vendor Company) as consideration for the transfer to this company
of certain of its assets,
200,000 shares are to be held in reserve.
600,000
The issue of 300,000 shares has been underwritten by Lindsay, Mildred and Co. and
Eric J. Morgan and Co., members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
DIRECTORS:
GEORGE KEITH AIKMAN, 145 Collins Street, Melbourne, Grazier.
lION. ROBERT MELVILLE CUTIIBERTSON, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Investor.
HADDON AUBREY SMITH, 360 Collins St., Melbourne, Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
UNDERWRITERS AND BROKERS:
LINDSAY, MILDRED and CO., 56 Queen Street, Melbourne) Members of The Stock
ERIC J. MORGAN and CO., 422 Collins Street, Melbourne) Exchange of Melbourne.
BANKERS:
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
SOLICITORS:
GREEN, DOBSON and MIDDLETON, 00 Market Street, Melbourne.
LEMPRIERE, ABBOTT and CORNISH, 29 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
AUDITOR: .
HERBERT TAYLOR (Young and Outhwaite), Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
368 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND HEAD OFFICE:
M. I. TOMLINS (Cook, Tomlins and Mirams), B. Com. A.C.A. (Aust.),
“Collins House,'’ 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS.
The Company has been formed with a
Nominal Capital of £150,000 in shares of
5/- each, with objects as defined in its
Memorandum of Association, and will
acquire the freehold land and buildings,
plant and machinery, fixtures and fittings,
etc., of The Adelaide Brewery Limited
(Vendor Company), of Mitcham, South
Australia. It will also acquire the shares
to be issued in The Adelaide Brewery
Limited (Operating Company), a Company
registered under the “Companies Act, 1034,”
of South Australia on the Ist day of
December, 1936 (and named with the con-
sent of the Vendor Company), to acquire
from the Vendor Company certain other
assets more particularly described in the
Agreement hereinafter mentioned. The
Operating Company will lease from this
Company the abovementioned freehold
land and buildings, plant and machinery,
fixtures and fittings, etc.
PURCHASE CONSIDERATION.
The Vendor Company is to receive as con-
sideration for the sale to Adelaide Brew-
ing Corporation Limited of those of its
assets more particularly described in the
Agreement hereinafter mentioned the sum
of £25,000, which shall be satisfied by the
allotment of 100,000 fully-paid-up shares
of 5/- each in the Capital of the Company.
In addition to the above consideration,
the Vendor Company will receive for the
Sale to The Adelaide Brewery Limited
(Operating Company) of those of its
assets more particularly described in the
Agreement hereinafter mentioned the
sum of £lO,OOO in cash.
BROKERAGE.
An underwriting commission of 3d. pet
share will be paid to the brokers who
have underwritten the whole of the issue
of 300,000 shares. Out of this they will
pay a brokerage of ljd- per share on allot-
ments in respect of applications for shares
bearing the stamp of any member of a
recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Application for shares must be made upon
the appropriate form and cheques for
application money of 5/- per share accom-
panying applications should be drawn
payable to the order of the Company,
and crossed “Not Negotiable.” COUNTRY
and INTERSTATE CHEQUES must in-
clude EXCHANGE.
If the number of shares allotted be less
than the number applied for, the surplus
application money will be returned.
IN TEEMS OF THE UNDERWRITING
LETTERS THE UNDERWRITERS OR
THEIR APPROVED NOMINEES HAVE
THE RIGHT TO APPLY FOR AND BE
ALLOTTED 300,000 SHARES. THIS
RIGHT HAS BEEN EXERCISED.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES.
Applications will be made in due course
to the principal Stock Exchanges of Aus-
tralia for official quotation of the Com-
pany’s shares.
OPERATING COMPANY—THE
ADELAIDE BREWERY LIMITED
OBJECTS.
In order to comply with the “Licensing
Act, 1932,” South Australia, the Operating
Company has been formed with a Nomi-
nal Capital of £lOO,OOO in shares of £1
each, with objects as defined in its Mem-
orandum of Association, and will acquire
from The Adelaide Brewery Limited
(Vendor Company) its Brewer’s Licence,
Brewer’s Australian Ale Licence, Brands,
copyrights, stock-in-trade, and book and
other debts, etc.
OPERATING COMPANY—THK
ADELAIDE BREWERY LIMITED
SITUATION AND HISTORY OP *
BREWERY.
The “Adelaide Brewery” premises are ac-
cepted to be the oldest in the State of
South Australia, still occupying their
original site at Mitcham, approximately
I>4 miles from the Adelaide G.P.0., and in
close proximity to the Mitcham railway
station. The present buildings are com-
modious in all departments, having umplo
cellar and storage facilities, and occupy
a portion only of the total area of the
property, which is a corner block of
approximately 1 acre 3 perches. The un-
occupied land available will therefore
facilitate expansion. The Brewery in
former years was known as Mallen’s
Waverley Brewery, and as such it played
a notable part in the brewing history of
South Australia, having been founded by
the late Mr. Charles Mallen, an English
brewer, over 60 years ago. Mr. Mallen
personally conducted the business up to
the time of his death. The situation ren-
ders cheap transport available for the
distribution of the Company’s products
to the Metropolitan area and to the
Country and for Interstate trade.
The water supply for the Brewery, which
is obtained from the Happy Valley Reser-
voir, is recognised by brewers as being
ideal for brewing purposes. In addition,
the brewery possesses its own supply of
well and bore water.
LICENCES.
In addition to the general brewing rights
conferred by the Brewer’s Licence issued
under the Commonwealth Beer Excise Act,
the Brewer’s Australian Ale Licence issued
under the “Licensing Act, 1932,” of South
Australia permits the holder to sell and
deliver its products not only to hotels,
clubs and other licensing persons, but
also direct to the consumer, including any
householder or other person, provided
that each sale is of not less than two
gallons (one dozen reputed quart bottles).
This privilege is considered to be of great
value to the Company.
BRANDS AND TRADING POLICY.
The Company will continue to brew and
market only the highest quality beer and
stout. Its main productions and brands
Will be “ADELAIDE BITTER” ALE aud
“STANDARD STOUT.”
The Vendor Company, after complete tests
and research, is producing a perfect beer
in “ADELAIDE BITTER,” fully matured
and distinctive in flavor; it is most pleas-
ing to the palate, and is guaranteed pure
and free from chemical preservatives.
Another outstanding product is the com-
pany’s Three-Star English Quality
“STANDARD STOUT.” This is a stout
of rare character and flavor, appetising
and rich in health-giving vitamins, fully
justifying the slogan included in its label
—“Rivals the Best Imported.”
In addition, specialty lines will be de-
veloped, including an excellent type of
“Old English” Malt and German Lager.
It will be the Company’s policy always to
cater for the widest range of public taste.
The general industrial revival and in-
creased prices of products in South Aus-
tralia have created buoyant conditions in
that State, and the prospects of continu-
ance are bright. A modest share of the
existing trade will firmly establish this
Company’s position in. respect of public
popularity and its future earnings.
Copies of this prospectus may be obtained from the Underwriting
Brokers and the Head Office of the Company.
Legal Notice.
IN THE WILL OF ROBERT SMITH late of
Cowra in the State of New South Wales
Farmer and Grazier deceased.
ANYONE knowing the present whereabouts
of or having any information regarding the
relatives, of the abovenamed or his sister Esther
Smith now or formerly the wife of John Mellin
or somewhat similar name or his stepsisters
Mary Jane and Emma daughters of his mother
Mary Smith who married a second time a man
named Kew or Que or a name of similar
sound and who died at Tenterfield New South
Wales please communicate with the undersigned.
W. J. GOLSBY, Solicitor,
Box 47, P. 0., Cowra.
National
Advertisers:
LEI
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hjll
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Btd„ Adelaide.
NEWS
t m
Mf
r°Sfates
READ
THE AUSTRALASIAN.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
TWO COMPETITIONS
FOR YOUTHS.
“'“THE BULLETIN” has decided to run a couple of
t competitions for youths who want to get on but see no
present prospect of realising their ambitions.
Each competition will carry a worth-while prize.
In one case the prize will amount to the sum of Fifty Pounds
(£5O), which will be paid by The Bulletin Newspaper Company,
at its discretion, to further the winner’s advancement in the
study, business or calling of his choice.
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship; in
other words, a job on “The Bulletin.”
Boys will be boys, and The Bulletin knows
that it is no use telling ardent spirits that they
must not send more than one entry for one
competition or try to win both. But no lad
can win both.
Competitors for the £5O prize may be any
age from 17 to 22. They will be required to
give in writing plain accounts of themselves,
their circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O
will go to the youth who, considered as a
citizen in the making, will, in the editor's judg-
ment, put it to the best use.
He may be a student stumped for books or
fees; a budding scientist who cannot at present
buy needed apparatus; a lad with a mechanical
bent who is short of money for tools or for a
premium; an embryo flying or wireless man
who cannot finance a course; a young fellow
starting in some carrying or other business to
whom £5O would be a godsend; a country lad
who with £5O could do something in the share-
farming line or buy some implement or even
pay a deposit on a bit of land, perhaps having
some friendly neighbor who may be willing to
give a lad a chance.
The Bulletin wants the stories of such lads,
and of hundreds of others. Not necessarily
for publication in every case —no doubt in
some cases there will be written things which
should not be made public—but so that it may
arrive at a fair judgment in deciding the destiny
of the £5O, and also that it may collect evidence
that will second the efforts of those good people
who have taken up the cause of unemployed
lads and of others whose opportunities have
been tragically restricted by the depression.
It will not be expected of any entrant for
Youth Competition No. 1 that he must be a
practised writer. If he makes out what is
adjudged the best claim to the £5O it won’t
matter a bit if his grammar is rocky and he
can’t spell.
Character, courage and a clear and logical
purpose—these are the things that will tell.
In< the other competition, however, literary
merit or aptitude will necessarily be a deciding
factor.
The Bulletin wants a lad who may be
trained to become a responsible member of its
staff, and naturally preference will go to the
boy who, on the evidence of the writing sub-
mitted, will seem most likely to supply the
requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths
in the 17-22 age group living anywhere in the
Australian Commonwealth or Territories or in
New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads
living anywhere in Australia or its Territories
or New Zealand, but they must be aged 17, 18
or 19.
In each case youths living remote from
Sydney will start equal with residents of Sydney
as regards chances of landing the prize.
If the winner of Youth Competition No. 2
happens to be a Victorian, a Queenslander, a
South Australian, a Westralian, a Tasmanian, a
New Zealander or a resident of any of the Aus-
tralian Territories, or of N. S. Wales beyond
Sydney, The Bulletin Newspaper Co. will pay
his fare to Sydney and see that he is installed
in a decent home.
If, after a fair trial, he does not like the job
or the job does not like him, he will be sent
back to the place he came from at the expense
of The Bulletin Newspaper Company.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association)
rates for cadets are £2 a week the first year,
£2 15s. the second year and £3 15s. the third
year; then the cadet qualifies as a junior at
£6 12s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to
Sydney, the first year’s salary will be made up
to £2 10s., and the lad will have opportunities
of earning more. This will apply also to the
second and third years of his cadetship.
Entries for both competitions will be re-
ceived to the end of February. This should
admit of every eligible Australian and Maori-
lander, however remote from The Bulletin
office, sending in an entry if either competition
appeals to him.
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 1
WHAT I WOULD DO WITH FIFTY
POUNDS.
Set out in plain language what you would
do with the money. Lead up to it by giving a
short account of yourself and your experiences,
seating your age, condition, whether living at
home or out in the world; if no longer at
school, how old you were when you left it, and
so forth.
There is no word-limit for your essay, but
try not to make it too long. Facts are the
essential things. And write on one side of the
paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cut-
ting in the places specified and get one of the
responsible parties mentioned below to certify
to your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to
your essay and address both to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 2
WHY I WANT TO BECOME A
WRITER.
Give reasons in an essay of, say, 600 to
1200 words —though there will be no hard-
and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, .state your age, the course
your reading has taken, your favorite poet
(and why), the prose-writer you prefer (and
why), what sort of memory you possess, and
whether you have had anything printed in
your school paper or in some other publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one of
the responsible persons mentioned below, pin
it to your essay and post to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS


boßß^
OUT HIS
thahks
ft
V-
V,
A
gift
9
l r
mm
I
■^om\
m
i
I
«s«***'
ass
"'• k &w»5 S&3S
' ,«S^SB9^
ft
\yjV\\SH^
is sure of o
REAL welcome
REMARKABLE HAPPENINGS, 1936.
(BY “MACANN.”)
AS diligently recorded in the daily
press, the actual occurrences herein-
under veraciously surveyed helped
to make 1936 in Australia a no less
eventful year than any other.
Early in the year a party of aborigines
was taken to witness a performance of
an elevating play, “The Mikado,” and a
month later—it was not suggested as an
antidote —the party was treated to a
ride on Luna Park slippery-dip. Despite,
or otherwise, these cultural influences, a
15-year-old aboriginal boy in Queens-
land stabbed a venerable member of his
tribe in the stomach in a dispute over
honey and lit out for the mulga, with
the tribe hotly in pursuit, though whether
with the intention of punishing or re-
warding him was not recorded. Also, a
lubra named Topsy was murdered and
Bullfrog Jack arrested, the report fail-
ing to make clear either why Topsy was
done in or why Bullfrog was run in.
A lay preacher, while pronouncing the
benediction, fell from the pulpit and
landed on his head, an embarrassing ex-
perience. Also, a boy, licking ice on a
freezing coil, had his tongue frozen
thereto, and two other boys were equally
astonished when, the electric wiring of
a swimming bath getting out of order,
they were hurled over an adjoining
fence. These experiences were no more
surprising to the participants therein than
that of another boy who, carrying a pea-
rifle inside his trousers (for reasons best
known to himself), shot himself in the
leg—twice. Again, a youth, riding a
bicycle past a motor-lorry, was struck and
knocked unconscious by a dead cow
which fell from the vehicle, an edifying
occurrence not only to the young
cyclist, but also to philologists, the term
“cow” having been thereby still more
deeply embedded in our vocabulary.
Whereas a number of people fell over
cliffs during the year, an almost equal
number were reported to have fallen
over precipices, a curious preference. A
better choice, some might feel, was that
of one who fell into a cellar ; the most
inexplicable choice, perhaps, that of
those —quite a number —who fell out of
hotels. Tree-lovers, it can be confi-
dently suggested, should be shocked to
learn, if they are not painfully aware of
it already, that more people fell out of
trees during the year than out of all
other things put together, not overlook-
ing ships, railway engines and hospitals.
Moreover, more people were offensively
struck by trees or portions thereof than
by the whole arsenal of other flying or
falling objects, including lightning, pack-
ing-cases, bales of wool, chimneys, red-
hot bars of iron and brick kilns.
Dog-lovers must surely have been over-
joyed if they read of the man and woman
who, reversing popular precedent,
dashed into a burning house to rescue
their hound, the faithful species recipro-
cating when an injured man put his
shirt (literally) on one of them, which
dutifully trotted off and attracted the
attention of a sagacious rescue party. Of
the uninjured men who did the same
thing figuratively, one went on to tell his
story in the Bankruptcy Court.
Courts of all kinds were among the
most prolific sources of outstanding
events. In one, it is recorded, a male
cook was charged with bigamy at his
own request, in respect to which all
those wishing to point the moral are re-
quested to write on only one side of the
paper, or, if married, on asbestos. A
Judge in another court was reported to
have emphatically asserted that two-up
is not Australia’s national game, but up
to the present no one has had the
temerity to suggest that his Honor
should call the cops off for 24 hours
and see. In one burst in the Divorce
Courts 500 undefended cases were dis-
posed of in five weeks ; in other courts
these figures tended to be reversed.
Criminals and other desperadoes who
during the year either got into the courts
or did not included those who noctur-
nally pinched the Adelaide Police Com-
missioner’s hens; also those to whom
the following, among other, assorted
articles proved irresistibly tempting: 111
leather overcoats, a gold racing cup
(Mrs. Kidman’s), a slab of granite, a
typewriter (Canon Hammond’s), some
communion wine, 230 newspapers, five
bales of wool, £412 worth of fountain-
pens and a “racing page from the ‘S. M.
Herald.’ ” Furthermore, a man and a
woman were found unconscious in a
house ; when they came to the man was
charged with stealing gas.
Naturally, in a sport-loving country,
sport contributed its share of outstand-
ing events and occurrences, including a
notable fight at Yarra Bay with
crockery, following which a woman was
revived with 50 stitches. In another in-
stance a man at Lismore (N.S.W.) taught
another man some effective wrestling
holds, subsequent to which instruction
the pupil missed the wallet from his hip-
pocket. It was also reported that two
cricketers, running to catch the same
ball, collided and knocked each other
unconscious—in which condition, it has
been thoughtfully pointed out, they ran
a grave risk of being mistaken for spec-
tators. The most stupendous cricketing
occurrence of the year appears to have
been the painting of a roof at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) to “keep the sun out of Brad-
man’s eyes.”
That noble animal the horse —insepar-
ably associated with sport —is becoming
more and more domesticated, appar-
ently. At Pylara station (N.S.W.) one
went into a house to die, while at
Forbes, in the same State, one, “with a
very long neck,” ate a neighbor’s plants
over a fence, his owner being mulcted £1
in damages. When another, with suffi-
ciently long neck, ate up the straight at
Flemington, his owner was rewarded with
a cup. A scratched horse won a race at
Victoria Park; crowd highly indignant,
A horse, which ran third was placed
first at Harold Park ; crowd speechless.
Under the heading “Drama” the out-
standing event of the year appears to
have been an address given to the
Legacy Club by Long Tack Sam. Under
the heading “Fossils” it was reported
that a prehistoric wombat had been un-
earthed in Queensland, though the report
did not go so far as to say that it was
sent to Canberra. From that city, co-
incident with a proposal to remove
Koala Park from Sydney to Tasmania,
emanated a very strong rumor that Mr.
Lyons intended to retire to a “life of
relative quiet.” Under the heading
“Patriotism” it was reported that when
the King died a Digger in Pitt-street,
Sydney, closed his fruit-barrow for the
day, and under the heading “Memorials”
that a monument had been erected to
Granny Smith, a lady who invented, or
caused to invent itself, an apple with the
singular attribute of being ripe when it
is green.
Under the heading “Mail” can be
listed the three unsuccessful attempts to
send letters by rocket across the Brisbane
River, a desperate commentary on that
river’s bridges. “Pests” embraces the
outstanding occurrence of grasshoppers,
advancing “on a 20-mile front” at
Goondiwindi (March 22), loyally attacked
by crows (March 24). “Police”: arrests
included a porcupine. Under the heading
“Centenaries” were recorded, and com-
memorated, those of South Australia,
Pickwick, the Independent Order of
Oddfellows and Gladesville, while under
the heading “Churches” it is pleasing to
note that the “S. M. Herald” published
a long leading article on this subject, as
many, attracted by the title ' “New
Bottles,” surprisingly discovered,
Under the related headings “Army,”
“Navy,” “Defence” and “Statesmanship”
there appears to have been an inordinate
entry of that which Nature reputedly
most abhors.


04
WOMANS MIRROR
100
PRGES FDR 3:
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose .
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price ljd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE ACE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAH”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne—Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludeate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Long White Cloud
Off to the P.W.D.
Summer months, high-pressure ones
in M.L. shearing- and milking-sheds and
harvest fields, call for extra farm labor.
According to branches of the Farmers'
Union in both Islands, this labor is not
offering. .
Agricultural Minister Martin, the only
farmer in the Cabinet, says the short-
age has been overcome everywhere but
in the Waikato. The exception is doubly
curious; other dairying districts are as
badly off as Jhe Waikato, a large part of
which happens to be the Minister’s elec-
torate of Raglan.
Most farmers, it seems, are being out-
bid on the labor market by the Public
Works Department, whose jobs their
taxes are financing. In addition to better
money and hours, most P.W.D. camps
boast recreation huts and libraries ; con-
cession-rate picture shows are also being
arranged.
Far from blaming their deserting men,
struggling cockies themselves feel like
joining the drift to Semple camps.
“Motu”: There was a marked differ-
ence in the expenditure on the recent
England-Maoriland flights. Jean Batten
places the cost of her 11-day trip at
£2200 ; Ernie Clark, who followed a few
weeks later, says the same flight cost
him £2OO, irrespective of initial outlay
on his machine. Where Clark took off
with home-made maps and flew his
machine home in preference to freighting
it, Jean Batten spent months preparing
for the venture. The expense of these
months, as well as portion of the price
of her machine—which she had pre-
viously flown across the South Atlantic
and in Europe—probably makes up the
odd £2OO. Clark is a casual amateur
whose livelihood comes from Canter-
bury sheep. Jean Batten’s flight was
part of her planned career as an aviatrix.
They were great efforts both.
H= * * *
“R.S.”: Transport Minister Semple has
appointed new traffic inspectors who are
to be “friends of the motoring public.”
Eleven thousand applications for the jobs
were, received by the Main Highways
Board. How many jobs? Twelve.
* * *
“Kiwit”: Maoriland’s Labor mouth-
pieces have broadcast some amazing
schemes during the year, but Minister of
Internal Affairs Parry should jump into
cartoonists’ favor with his suggestion for
keeping farmers’ sons out of the cities.
Says Minister Parry:
If the breeding of the right type of horse
could be promoted, with the development
of the right type of picnic race meeting, the
attraction of farmers’ sons to the cities
would be diminished.
As a scheme for attracting bookmakers
and their sons to the country, it is a
winner.
V "!•
“F.1.N.”: Australian tourists who
have sniffed the sulphur fumes of
Rotorua (M.L.) know the fall sequoia
tree outside the town’s tourist bureau.
For the last six months, it has been
dying from the top. Several large macro-
carpas in the town square and a giant
gum in the centre of a street intersection
are also yellowing at the top. Forestry
experts say their roots have struck
thermal ground and that the heat is
killing them. Macrocarpas and gums
are common enough, but the sequoia,
planted in 1887, is a Rotorua landmark ;
nearly 23ft. in circumference, it is 91ft.
high.
* * * *
*'D-N.”: Maori elders would like to
send 100 of their people to the Corona-
tion. It is 131 years since Dr. John
Savage took the first Maori, Mohanga,
to England on a whaling vessel from
N.S.W. Presented to George 111., Mo-
hanga made no attempt to disguise his
disgust at finding the King an old man
and not a vigorous warrior. Samuel
Marsden took a chief’s son to London
in 1807, and in 1820 Hongi, chief of the
Bay of Islands Nga-puhi tribe, met
George IV. Hongi got more fun from his
London introductions to beautiful new
killing, instruments that he knew could
revolutionise tribal warfare back home.
He collected some martial wrinkles and
“Put on your pinafa W, young Woman.”
“ Taubada, me too shy!”
effective weapons, and within a few
months of his return was beating up his
neighbors. The next warlike Maoris to
go abroad landed on Gallipoli and the
Western Front, and present tribal elders
would like a detachment of their re-
turned soldiers to be included in any
M.L. Coronation party.
* * * *
“Mak”: Wandering comes easily to
Maori land newspapermen.- 1 Every Aus-
tralian city has its quota on local sheets ;
Sydney and Melbourne, where the pay
is best, have always had good M.L.
newspaper colonies.. It is still a fair step
to S. Africa, but the Rand “Daily Mail”
seems to have a soft spot for Maori-
landers; it employs eight, including the
editor, news editor and advertising
manager. Rand pay is the highest offer-
ing on the S. African newspaper front.
* * * *
“Xo”: Arawata’s lonely cattle-breeder
(B. 25/11/ ’36) has a counterpart in the
sheep business off Mahia Peninsula, on
the north-east coast of Hawkes Bay.
For 15 years one man has farmed Port-
land Island —named by Cook after
England’s Portland Bill. Before his
wool comes under the auctioneer’s
hammer it is ferried 18 sea miles to
Waikokopu or 40 miles down the bay
to Napier. East Coast sailors know his
island by the lighthouse that keeps them
well away in stormy weather.
* * # *
“Kohi”: Divorce courts reveal strange
human dramas. In two recent Auckland
(M.L.) cases, it was admitted that the
marriage ceremonies had been empty
formalities, with separations previously
agreed upon. The frowning Judge said
agreements of that sort were “against
public policy,” and added that people
should marry with the intention of
marrying, not of separating. One of
the “marriages” was attended by men of
law waiting to effect the separation.
* * * *
“Korero”: The future of the National
party doesn’t look healthy. H. S. S.
Kyle says there must be a reversion to
the old Reform party, and being chief
Opposition Whip he should know what
he is talking about. The Reform and
United parties co-operated to form the
old Coalition Government, and later
made the National party. One interest-'
ing Kyle revelation is that National-
party leader Adam Hamilton and Gordon
Coates, the old Reform party boss, nearly
broke away from the main body of the
Opposition to form, with others, an “in-
dependent Reform group.” It explains
how Adam Hamilton recently licked
C. A. Wilkinson for the Opposition
leadership after Wilkinson had been in-
duced to return to the party system he
had so often criticised, and it possibly
accounts for the resignation of George
Forbes as leader.
* * * *
“Ghost”: M.L. is having a war of its
own, but anyone can join in. The G.O.C.
is Minister Parry, who has been learning
about the depredations of thar and
chamois, goats, stoats and weasels, hedge-
hogs and rats. He has an army of 40,
under Captain G. F. Yerex, operating on
Mount Cook reserves in the biggest cam-
paign of deer destruction ever under-
taken. The army travels on skis.
* * * *
“Beetle B.”: Riverton still remembers
an early Maoriland Governor who went
to extremes to avoid loyal addresses (B.
25/11/’36). 'Horsemen rehearsed an
elaborate ceremonial of welcome, intend-
ing to escort him from Waimatuku. They
waited hours on the banks of the stream
before a special messenger arrived to say
the Governor wanted no escort, could
not wait at Riverton for lunch, and could
spend only a few minutes in the town.
Some troopers rode home in disgust, but
others swallowed their pride and, as the
Governor’s gig approached, lined the
roadside as a guard of honor. The Gov-
ernor ignored them as he drove quickly
between the ranks. An address of wel-
come was waiting at Riverton. It was
afterwards found in a fireplace at the
hotel in which his Nibs refreshed him-
self! And he didn’t go to the ball.
Riverton and districts were just recover-
ing when the unkindest cut of all was de-
livered—a bill for £6 for the Governor's
horse-hire from Invercargill to Riverton.
# * #
“Uramao”: An unexpected casualty
was left in the hands of the raiding squad
of police who descended on a two-up
school in Maoriland the other day.
When the tumult died and most of the
offenders had been collected from vari-
ous places of refuge, members of the
force dashed round to the basement in
search of two-uppers who had jumped
from windows. One delinquent was
picked up with a broken leg. It looked
at first glance a case for the surgeon,
but closer examination revealed a job
for a carpenter. The leg was of wood.
* * * *
“Erua”: The Maori can be cited as
an example of what can be done without
meat in the development of thews and
muscles (B. 2/12/’36). While Henare
and co. were not strictly vegetarians
within the meaning of the term, they
were not meat-eaters, for the suffi-
cient reason that no meat existed
in Maoriland for them to eat. They
consumed huge quantities of fish, includ-
ing not only deep-sea varieties of every 7
description, but toothsome morsels like
the pipi and toheroa, the sea mussel and
the fresh-water koura —a small and deli-
cious variety of lobster. Birds they had
in plenty, from the moa to the wood-
pigeon, and by way of variety they ate
the great houhou grubs, their native
sweet potato, berries of many varieties
and the pithy portion of the nikau palm.
That their diet, minus meat and milk,
was a good one was proved by the pro-
duct of brawn, brain and courage that
was the Maori as a simple savage. On
occasion they also ate a juicy steak of
enemy origin, but that wasn’t a steady
diet.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
A Course of
Pelmanism will
1. train you to remember
names, faces, appoint-
ments, figures and use-
ful data of any kind,
and to call to mind
promptly the apt word
or argument;
2. strengthen your power
of Concentration ;
3. give you a Strong Will;
4. give you a definite Aim
in life, and the ability
to achieve that Aim;
5. enable you to develop
Initiative and the power
of accepting Responsi-
bility ;
6. strengthen your Self-
Confidence ;
7. Remove all trace of
Inferiority Conscious-
ness ;
8. make all your contacts
with other people—
social, business and
casual —easy and com-
fortable ;
9. enable you to express
yourself better either in
Writing or in Speech ;
10. increase your energy,
direct it into the most
profitable channels, and
so enlarge your earning
capacity ;
11. broaden your mind and
improve your judg-
ment ;
12. give you a stronger and
more effective Person-
ality.
Real Substance
in 1937
nro those with energy, foresight and courage, 1937 is not just another year
to be stumbled through. For them it is a fixed period of time to be used
for advancement and accomplishment, to be managed so that work is well
and properly done, and leisure and freedom of mind fully secured.
r | "HERE will be problems and there will be anxieties. As long as we live
in a world which from the very first made provision for the cussedness of
inanimate things” and for people who will think their own thoughts and do
their own deeds there will always be problems and anxieties. But more often
than not circumstances can be handled so that they work together for good,
and just as often people are kept moving comfortably in the right direction by
enlightened self-interest. Generally it is a question of adjustment between the
world within ourselves and the world without. The trained mind recognises
this. It has courage, and really enjoys overcoming difficulties that the untrained
mind often rears into “spectres for self-affrightening.
DELMANISM trains the mind. It develops qualities and attributes that
* enable the Pelmanist to make use of circumstance. The Pelmanist is
alert and never far away from opportunity. He sees it in places where another
man sees nothing. Proper training has imparted mental sensibility, and the
chances to which others are blind display themselves to him invitingly. The
Pelmanist has real substance within himself.
r T'HOSE, no matter what their calling or circumstances, who are considering
the means by which they can increase their substance, moral and material*
in 1937 will be wise to inquire into the possibilities that Pelmanism offers.
Full particulars of The Pelman Course are given in
“The Efficient Mind,” copies of which are posted free.
Write or call for one. Your inquiry will be regarded as
confidential. We have no outdoor representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation.
Its headquarters are in London. The Institute in
Melbourne has been established for 29 years.
More than half a million men and women have
enrolled for the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory
and Personality Training. Of these 35,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
CUT OUT OR COPY THIS AND POST TO-DAY.
| THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1.
Please send your free book, "The Efficient Mind.’
| Name
I Address
I 455
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
£
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand shoidd send 30/-.)
X
K 1 v
° J. ,o^ e -
■el’
M^Vt^V’nV^
S*s
J 0
\0
0
w e
o'
*JV V
s o vlt
A 4*s
a *^&y
+k& m ..-■' .•■'* . o'v, '°^sy; 0 o


wk
y
to
*
\*r>
r
7:&.
A
rb
H
?v.O^
5b
A
N
D
A
s>
SF
K
fc>
■v
o
*£>
y
\
¥
<K
s*
*
A
S'
&&
o
o
V
IV
&
m
»tr
m
fess
Iv3q
mm
*‘£xs£&r4
JHHBk
!: Pl: jpßMflnSwJ
KD
> w
kJ
’i'Kli
WJKWttK
A FAMOUS PRODUCT OF
W. & A. GILBEY, THE
LARGEST WINE AND
SPIRIT MERCHANTS IN
THE WORLD.
SCOTCH
UJHISKV
