

111 min 1 ii
it
i/
iii
in
inn
»• / 111 I M 41 I
• 7 i i,.Mimill
f. 1 »• II \ '-I 'll
I II I I I I I f,
11 u i 11 j: /
!. i
m
lin.inuii'
E
if
a
«h
A
/yv
i
|/...«nf/ ißhmi* I'wrnj'.i
1 . r:.T:* iWTiifiiji ’
• aliilL'i?it ivij
rLi Mix : sfeisii II
n
mi
m
n
Ah
= /
f
: /,
4
a
i
zmLkh
m
m
m
:
Ul
U : u
ill
j.
.'1
I
Ml
(]h\
r,M.
wi
!
if h
MS
mmm
i_j
DEFORE the massive doors stands the stern
custodian of untold wealth, himself within
the Security of iron grilles—none but those who
pass strict examination may gain admission. A
tiny lever actuates the mechanism which makes
available gold to stimulate the nation’s commerce.
Protecting investors stands the organisation of
Hamiltons (Australasia) Limited affording
security in safe investments.
Between the investor’s funds and capital invest-
ments is the knowledge and experience of a staff
of experts who have built up the mighty barrier
which excludes all but approved stocks.
Shares in Established Companies of proved
dividend-earning capacity backed by adequate
tangible assets form the basis of offerings from
Hamiltons (Australasia) Limited.
Thus a Hamilton investment may be said to be
“safe as a bank.”
An advice service is available free of any cost or
obligation.
Address enquiries to—
HAMILTONS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
etc.
Copy of monthly Review, “Profits,” will be sent
post free on application.
fHaifliltOllS (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE, KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY*
’Phone: 8W1146 (2 lines). (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building.
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 NT.
n
Chamber of Manufacturers’ Bldj?.,
14 Pirie Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 P,
Representatives
at Perth, W.A„
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
“Island Heritage ” a Winner
Vol. 57.-No. 2921.
Wednesday, February 5, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Story Writing
VW at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address .... *
S.B. 1S«
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
FICTION’S
RIVAL
Negley Farson’s
The Way of a
Transgressor (Gol-
lancz ; Angus and
Robertson ; 125.) is
a rattling good
piece of entertaining reading, which hap-
pens also to represent an interesting de-
velopment in literary technique. There
are many alleged novels which are really
travel books done in the fictional
manner. Farson does not give his
adventurous career in that way, but
quite directly in the first person.
Yet he employs the technique of
the fiction-writer very freely. There is
continuous narrative current, with good
character depiction, suspense, dialogue
and other essentials of fiction, while
recording actual travel, autobiography,
adventure, biography, world affairs and
the like. The result is a book which has
most of the qualities, appeal and flavor
of a good novel while making no pre-
tence to be one.
In this new method, suspense-making
—which is, of course, a straight borrow-
ing from the fictional technique—is pre-
meditated ; regularly and quite openly
employed. “After two years at An-
dover, Farson states at the beginning
of a chapter, “I was expelled from school
under the most sensational circum-
stances.” The reader who isn’t quick-
ened by that simply isn’t human. Far-
son, as it happens, having whet curiosity
in that way, has the material to satisfy
it amply— not all the writers of these
books have! Again, beginning the first
section of his experiences in Russia—he
was there as a plain go-getter, call Jie it
what he likes!—he declaims: “Russia!
Holy Russia! I will never forget my first
sight or smell of her, nor, Bog iznat!
what she did to me during those next
three years.” Even the reader surfeited
to the eyebrows with visitors’ accounts of
Russia —and there is an enormous sur-
feit of this stuff—might rise to a bait of
that kind.
Suspense-making is merely one of the
method’s borrowings from fiction. An-
other is the careful construction of char-
acter. The method is not content with
mere names of people and their surface
appearances: there is conscious effort to
construct them so that they walk, talk,
breathe, think, live as in the most delib-
erately contrived illusion of fiction. Two
dozen, at least, of Farson’s characters
could be moved bodily without any
alteration into a fictional presentation
(the whole book, in fact, could well be
fiction, written by one exceptionally well-
informed who had had some personal
experience of the many countries that
are the book’s varied scene). For
example, Farson’s grandfather who
reared him, and who is the first of the
large range of varied, picturesque, excep-
tional people to appear in the book—is
such a perfect specimen of the veteran
American Civil War leader as the fiction
romance writers only in their most in-
spired moments invent. Abner, his man
is a living picture of the old darkie man-
about-the-place. Here are the pair oi
them together on the book’s first page:
My grandfather and Abner could get
more solid contentment out of a pot of
wax and a pruning-knife than any two
men I ever knew. They would make
plums grow on a peach-tree and (I’m not
so sure of this) peaches on plums—half
the trees were bandaged on our places—
and my grandfather would discourse
learnedly to Abner upon how the bees
crossed the pollen on the grapes, which
explained that cross we had between the
Wild Fox and the Concord, whose vine
trailed along from the stables to the
garden gate And, of course, during
all these rambles, in an old black alpaca
coat with trailers of alfalfa dangling from
its pockets, ray grandfather and Abner
would talk politics. For my grandfather,
who had served four terms in Congress,
had just been broken in Pennsylvanian
politics and was now a ruined man—to
everyone but Abner. People used to say:
“General Negley can swing only two votes
now—his and his nigger’s!”
For a chapter or two the author work
upon revealing the shades of characte
in these two men, not, as the fiction
writer does, to make their subsequen
behavior credible and inevitable, and ye
for more than the mere passing effect o
making them visible and known to the
reader. Consciously, on the author’
part or not, they serve a literary pur
pose: they are there, rememberer
throughout the narrator’s subsequen
experiences—and these are extraordi
narily varied, in many lands—and those
two, with the setting to which they anc
the author belonged, are a touchstone to
the way he subsequently faces up to anc
goes through life. It is they, because of
the solid and the traditional that arc
in them, who really account for his
eventually becoming in England more
English than the English: so much so
at least, as to cause a break between
him and his New York paper because
he had lost the outlook the paper re-
quired in him of a detached American
observing the European scene, events anc
affairs. He admires England from the
moment he goes there for engineering
training at Manchester ; and part of what
he admires is that integrity in business
and craftsmanship exemplified in the
following incidental-character construc-
tion —one of the best of many very good
similar glimpses. An order having
come from America for a sample of a
new chain, Farson sent a note to the
works to have a special sample made up.
And then the Old Man came into my
office.
“What’s this?”
He was half out of his mind with rage,
and he banged a length of chain down
on my desk.
“How dare you!” he panted. “How
dare you! ”
I jumped to my feet in alarm. I told
him why I had ordered a special sample
made up.
“What! By God, you listen to me!”
He slammed the sample of chain down on
the floor. “I want you to understand one
thing—every foot of my chain is just as
good as any other foot. We don’t send
out samples to get orders by!”
There was almost a maniac shriek as he
uttered the detested word “sample.” He
flung himself out of my office and
wouldn’t admit my existence for weeks.
I think he would have fired me if I had
not been on contract.
But that was the Old Man, God bless
him! It was an honor to work for him.
In addition to such excellent char-
acter-construction and the use of the
suspense-making method-, the writer
employs the general fictional narrative
manner, so that the reader is carried on
by a continuous current rather than by
interest in the happenings themselves.
The happenings are vividly interesting,
but the narrative current in which they
occur carries the reader along by its own
momentum. So he is swept through that
early life with Grandfather and Abner;
and then a period of representative
American schooling, though with inci-
dents extraordinary enough for a despe-
rate fictioneer to have invented; then
England, with interesting pictures of
domestic life in Manchester ; then Russia
during the war, go-getting in war
materials that seems almost a shade too
fantastic to be true (though then, and
later, Russia must have been in reality
an incredibly fantastic place); then with
the British Air Force in Egypt; then back
in America, with almost equally fantastic
hospital experiences ; marriage then, and
a couple of years’ idyllic fishing (an-abid-
ing passion) and simple life in a watered
retreat in British Columbian wilds; then
sailing clean across Europe, from Hol-
land to the Black Sea, in a 26ft. yawl;
and then a lively period as correspondent
for a New York paper, with whaling,
India and Gandhi, Turkey and Kemal,
Spain, England’s general strike and more
Russia all crowding his life.
A terrific jumble of experience and
adventure, though anything but a jumbled
book. The fiction method prevents that;
controls the action into a narrative that
has a clear, forward direction to its end,
and leaves an impression of definiteness,
completeness, all said that could be said,
such as good novels give. If there is any
fault in the method it may be that a
reader may feel that he has been listen-
ing to a good tale rather than to what
the book is described on the jacket to
be —an. autobiography.
R.P.
Odyssey of
an Island
Trader
Probably there
is no man living
who knows the
Pacific, from Syd-
ney to Tuamotu,
.from Honolulu
down to Auck-
land, as well as does 76-year-old George
E. L. Westbrook, of Apia, sometime a
member of the Legislative Council of
Samoa; latterly in bad odor with the
Maoriland Mandatory Administration
because he espouses the cause of the
Mau. An American writer, Julian Dana,
has undertaken the task of writing the
old chap’s recollections of his first 30
• years or so in “the Islands” (as we Aus-
tralians call them), and these are set
down in Gods Who Die (Macmillan;
Dymock’s ; 225,).
The story,"though vastly adventurous
—it is full of battle, murder, shipwreck,
villainy and sudden death —rings true.
As to the manners and customs of the
Caroline, Marshall, Solomon, Gilbert,
Ellice, Fijian and Samoan islanders it is
a little more outspoken than other
accounts, but adds not very much to
what has already been disclosed by an
army of writers headed by R. L. Steven-
son and Louis Becke. The main interest
of the narrative lies in its personal refer-
ences.
Westbrook made his first acquaintance
with the Pacific in about 1875, when he
was an apprentice on the ship Famenoth,
which he deserted at Auckland. Thence-
forward for three or four decades he
drifted round about and up and down
Polynesia, Micronesia and Melanesia. He
was too late on the scene to meet Bully
Hayes, but knew Becke—“harum-scarum:,
full of the love of adventure and ever on
the lookout for new experiences. When
excited he stuttered badly, but even with
this handicap he was a gifted story-teller.
His first book of short stories was re-
printed from the pajges of the Sydney
Bulletin. Becke supplied the material for
Rolf Boldrewood’s Modem Buccaneer,
in which Hayes appears as Hayston.”
Becke, Westbrook recalls, was arrested by
the commander of H.M.S. Rosrio, on a
charge of being Hayes’s accomplice
in various unsavory transactions, but
managed to clear himself.
Westbrook’s first shore job in* the
Islands was as book-keeper to Black
Tom, a giant negro whose exploits
reach nearly as bad an eminence
as those of Bully in South Seas tradition.
Because of his connection with Tom,
innocent thbugh it was, the youngster
(Westbrook was then about 16) was set
upon by the natives of Arnho (in the
Marshalls), stripped, tied to a tree and
nearly killed by mosquitoes before a
compassionate native girl cut him loose.
Black Tom had a run-in with Bully Haye,
at Apia—and came off best. The negro
at that time kept a grog-shop. He stole
some of Mrs. Hayes’s fowls, and, when
that energetic lady protested, abused her
with every nasty term in his extensive
vocabulary. Hayes was away blackbird-
ing. When he returned he visited Tom's
shack armed with a club and smashed
every bottle, glass and fitting in the place.
Tom went to the Consul with a bill as
long as his arm, and Hayes had to pay
every penny of the claim. His temper
wasn’t improved when he learned many
months later that the whisky, rum, brandy
and wine in the bill were represented by-
bottles filled with water —Tom kept no
genuine alcohol save Hamburg gin.
Westbrook had this yarn from Alfred
Restieaux, whom he met on Funafuti
in 1883 —a Frenchman who had seen
much better days;
These chronicles also mention
“Matafa” (Four-eyes), a wily German;
O’Brien, the giant humpbacked trader
on Niutau ; Waldemar Dienstmann, the
Pole ; West India Jadk, the three Smiths
—Lying Jack* Whistling Jack and Scan-
dalous Jack—and a hundred other traders
and schooner captains. There are dozens
of yarns about these people.
Westbrook’s attitude towards mission-
aries is that of most other laymen who
have sojourned long in the Island. He
admires their pluck and devotion, but
can see no result of their operations but
the enslavement and degradation of the
natives, who are robbed of their own
laws and customs and placed under
“stupid and narrow-minded bans and
regulations” that turn them into snivel-
ling hypocrites, sap their constitutions,
and foster infanticide and abortion.
Native kings are deposed, and their
autliQrity is usurped very often by some
low-browed native teacher who tyran-
nises not only over brown but over white
residents, Westbrook speaks feelingly on
this subject, for he was left alone for
four months on Funafuti because the
whole population (including Restieaux)
had been deported to build a church on
Funafula at the behest of Tema, one of
the L.M.S.’s native agents. While all were
away from Funafuti save Westbrook a
hurricane devastated the island. Fortu-
nately for the trader, German Consul
Steibel happened along in a warship just
after the blow, sent Tema and his team
packing back to Funafuti and compelled
the natives to rebuild Westbrook’s and
Restieaux’s homes and stores before they
did a tap to their own domiciles and
church. The Germans had a short way
with missionaries.
Gods Who Die is a meaty book. In
cidentally it explains the genesis of at
least a hundred highly-flavored Island
stories that have found their way into
The Bulletin’s “Aboriginalities” page in
the last decade.
A.D.W.
The Writer's
" Lot
Austere”
When Henry
Kendall wrote
about “the lot
austere” preserved
for “the man of
letters here,” he
knew what he
was talking about. Poverty can be
a malignant and fatal disease; and
he felt its thrusts early. All one
questions in those lines is his use of the
word “here.” Was such a poet worse
off in Australia than he would have
beefi, say, in England at the same date?
Has Kendall’s influence been greater or
less than it would have been had
he lived in another country? This
second matter is difficult to assess. Here
{Continued on page 4


"TRUTH W ADVERTISING ” — Always.
ANTHONY
“The Senior Store
While
1 Live I'll Grow
HORDERNS’
agricultural implements
SELLING AT BARGAIN PRICES
, ' ' " r.c <n? '
HALF-YEARLY GENUINE
fflH
Usually
£27/10/-
£l6
dsf
Planet Jr. Orchard and Universal
Cultivator
No. 41 Planet Jr. Orchard and Universal Cultivator is built to
combine strength, lightness, adjustability, and efficiency to the
fullest extent in one implement. The Steel Wheels are low and
entirely enclosed by the frame; they are adjustable 30 to 40 inches
apart. Without the Extensions it cuts 4ft. in width and has seven
stiff steel standards, carrying inch bevelled steels, specially
hardened. With the Extensions it cuts 6ft. 6in., carrying 1 1 teeth,
and the frame can be changed to cut any width from down to
4 feet in width. Price £27/107-
Sale Price £l6
ds
4/- Stamped Steel Spade
3/3
Potts’ Reliable Stamped-steel Spades
are genuinely reduced for the Sale.
Strongly constructed with Sturd-e-dee
handles. Ideal for garden use.
Price, each • 4/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, ea., 3/3
6/3 4-prong Digging Fork
4/6
Any gardener who requires a strong
Digging Fork should secure one of
these while they are reduced. Drew s
well-known make with four reliable
prongs. Price, each 6/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, ea., 4/9
fds
V
70/- Portable Forge
65/-
A First-class Portable Forge, defi-
nitely superior to many low-priced
forges. Machine-cut gear wheels of
40 to 1 ratio, 7-16 in. wide; 6£in.
fan case gives a powerful blast. Legs
are strong, and the forge is alto-
gether a sturdy, compact production,
and unusually -good value for the
money. Has . been designed for
simplicity and high efficiency. Fire
pans made of 16 gauge iron, 1 Bin.
square, 3in. deep. Price .... 707-
Sale Price 65/-
• r .
8/- Sheep
8.8. A. Sheep Shears. 7£in. blades, double hollow-ground. Fitted
stop-gap attachment. Price, pair 87-
Sale Price, pair 7/3
£ll
5®
m w
Usually
& 11/12/6
“Wiard” No. 120 Two-horse Hillside Plough
“Wiard” Reliable Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with coulter
and adjustable clevis. Jointer and coulter are adjustable, and shift auto-
matically when mouldboard is reversed. Will plough sin. to Bin. deep
lOin. to 1 3in. wide; weight, 1181 b. Price, each £ll/12/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each £ll
Extra Cast Shares. Price, each 7/-
Extra Forged Steel Shares. Price, each 36/-
Usually
£6/2/6
£5/17/6
oTh
UVd
Yracux
Deere’s No. 824 Two-horse Hillside Plough
One of the sturdiest and lightest Ploughs of its type on the market.
“John Deere” Hillside Plough works equally well on level ground.
The bottom swivels for left or right furrows, so that land may be
ploughed all one way. Complete with land wheel and steel handles.
Price £6/2/6. Sale Price £5/17/6
MZSXS
XmX
Mffiffi
a
i
r-:x-:*T-:»^£x
*2
Xsfi>
t -. <:- x —: * :—; r
*5£X
5H3K3
xsx
iSXS
t-r-x-xr—
*s*
Si®!
.-.X
»M*W>
xs*
®®gi
MBS
*2
IH*
ftlfl
i_j
IS
•TSX
as*
XSXSX2
*2*
English Pasture Chain Harrow
Usually £5
90/-
English Pasture Chain Harrows. Sizes, 6ft. x 7ft. 6in.
Prices, each . . £5
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, each: £4/10/-
Bft. x 7ft. 6in.
£6/10/-
£6
WRITE FOR A FREE COPY
OUR SALE CATALOGUE.
OF
# Agricultural Implements —Fourth Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


> 'OUV
rm boom of tm f%m
ALL-ABOUT
MARY and ELIZABETH DURACK
YOU WILL ENJOY
THIS BOOK!
THE HAPPIEST BOOK OF THE YEAR
ALL-ABOUT
The Story of a Black Community on Argyle Station, Kimberley, Nor’-west West Australia.
By MARY and ELIZABETH DURACK.
The public demand for copies of “All-About” rapidly
exhausted the first and second editions of this
splendid book, and the THIRD EDITION is now
available.
“All-About” has been acclaimed by press and public
as one of the best books published for some time.
Here, indeed, is the happy book, full of good cheer,
excellent fun and a splendid tale of station life in
the vast nor’-west of Western Australia. The writers
are daughters of that splendid pioneer of the Kim-
berleys, Mr. M. P. Durack, and in collaboration they
have written a tale of station life, of intensely inter-
esting natives who, the writers profoundly realise, are
gifted with the joy of laughter, human kindliness
and true philosophy.
PRICE 3'6 (Postage 4d.)
All Newsagents or Booksellers throughout Australasia, or from
the Publishers, The Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
and Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
are two bits of data. South African poet
Roy Campbell, in Broken Record, says
of the Australian:
Kendall had an enormous and original
vocabulary, and he has influenced me more
than I can say. Like me, he was brought
up in a whaling town, and his Kerguelen
is the father of my Tristan da Cunha.
If Kendall could read that, I think he
would lift his beard from where it used
to rest on his two hands clasped over
his umbrella-handle ; such gratitude
would retrospectively mitigate his lot
austere in life.
In England, for a poet or other serious
writer who had no private income, the
matter would not have been much better,
as Grant Richards indicates in Author
Hunting :
A Shropshire Lad began by being pub-
lished at the expense of the author; Grant
Allen published at least two of his books,
the books that in his early years as an
author he thought most of, at his own
expense; all the books of Samuel Butler
were published at Samuel Butler’s own
expense—until, that is, I had the good
fortune to make his acquaintance.
Such facts could be augmented in heaps.
So far from expecting to live by writing
what he cares about, a man is fortunate
if he can get a genuine piece of work
published without actually paying for it.
Nearly all English poets have been men
with a private income.
What, then, is the special trouble for
writers in Australia? A few years ago
there was a habit of tilting that famous
phrase of Wilkins in this direction:
“Australians are the poorest rich people
in the world.” That is, as regards
literature, they have starved their
Kendalls and their Shaw Neilsons. The
wealthy patron of the arts can now be
counted out. He was always prob-
lematical, especially in Australia, as
Wilkins's phrase suggested. Can our
writers somehow live and write now in
a poor country? Is it possible for them
to manage?
Recently death has come to several
significant writers of ours, different in
calibre; and when their work is con-
sidered, it is inevitable to consider also
their opportunity, their audience, their
“market,” financial and intellectual. Did
we make it possible for these writers—
J. B. Dailey, Steele Rudd, D. H. Souter,
Louis Stone—to give out the best that
was in them? Souter was more artist,
but “man of letters,” too: one would
like to know his literary experiences.
Dailey was a novelist of ideas that he
never had quite leisure enough to embody
fully. It was always to be hoped that he
would do some historical studies with
the aid of family records. Steele Rudd
was carried on the tide of his bewilder-
ing success, which dominated him too
long. In another country, at a better
time, such success would have been
recognised for the comparative irrele-
vance it was, and more, much more
appreciation would have been given to
the distinguished and meditative stories,
such as some in his late book Grey
Green Homestead, that he usually hesi-
tated to write. Then Louis Stone —he
who wrote Jonah and Betty Wayside—
did he die with several books in him?
If so, they were probably not near the
surface, for we hear that for many years
he was a deeply fatigued man. Having
written Jonah, a novel that in its finest
chapters was a discovery and achieve-
ment, while as a whole it shouted a gruff
promise, Louis Stone needed a spell of
leisure and superfluous health. Instead,
as I gather, he remained a school-
master, which was a very good thing in
itself, for he must have been a sym-
pathetic one, but a very bad thing for
an author with little spare energy. It
meant that every morning he woke up
to the promise of a day’s work at school
instead of a day’s struggle at his own
writing-desk ; his writing had to wait for
odd hours of fatigued leisure. The
literary talent is not to be fobbed off in
that way. For an author to do his best
work he needs to wake up fresh every
morning to his primary job as a writer,
even if he has to live on a pound a week.
A pound a week or less. Said Frank
Swinnerton in a recent article, where he
was not dealing with rarities either: “A
novelist wrote to me the other day, saying
he found it very hard to live on seven-
teen shillings a week.”
The writing of books is no safe method
of making even a little money. To quote
Swinnerton again, as he writes of con-
temporary matters:
The number of novelists who sell more
than ten thousand copies of a book in
England is very small indeed. The average
novelist chuckles with glee if he passes two
thousand. I know one man who wrote for
twenty years without ever exceeding a
thousand copies; and another, well known
after more than a quarter of a century’s
hard work, who is still said to sell fewer
than fifteen hundred. Say these men get
fifteen per cent, royalty on a seven-and-
sixpenny book (it is more likely to be ten
per cent.): what do you suppose they
earn by twelve months’ unremitting work
in the year?
The answer is: something like that
“seventeen shillings a week.”
An absurdly difficult life, this life
austere; often a back-to-front success,
as with so many artists, who in the end
have no secure possessions, nothing but
their work to show for it. Nothing but
their work,, their very reason for
existence! They are not apt to grumble,
if only they can keep at work. Writing
a Kerguelen or Such Is Life or Joe
Wilson, these strange, persistent fanatics
continue to ignore the living wage so
long as they are free to do so.
LONDON.
NETTIE PALMER.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
I Write As I Please Walter Duranty.
The Way of a Transgressor .. Negley Parson.
Dorset Essays . Llewelyn Powys
Lucy Gayheart Willa Catha.
WALTER DURANTY’S I Write As /
Please (Hamish Hamilton; 10s. 6d. net)
is an uncommonly good rambling book of
eyewitness description and a reporter’s
personal experiences and adventures in
Europe, especially Russia, since the war.
It needs to be an uncommonly good one
to hold a seasoned booktaster for 300-
odd large pages after the surfeit of stuff
already written on that large topic. The
difference between Duranty and many of
them is that he does seem to write as he
pleases, and what he writes sounds like
truth. He appears to have no axe of any
kind to grind. He is a blunt realist, re-
porting on what he has seen, indifferent
to trends of events one way or another.
“I’m a reporter,” he says, “not a humani-
tarian” ; and with the true reporter’s
instinct he swoops down upon such
things as the Volga famine with the
thought that luck has come his way at
last. In the same sense being on the spot
for the funeral of Lenin is “luck”—
luck for the reader, too, in a vivid chap-
ter of graphic description. Though
Duranty hails originally from Lanca-
shire, his association with America as
Russian correspondent for the New
York “Times” since 1920 has given his
expression a curious American flavor; —
the more vigorous, racy, pungent sort,
however, that is all to the good in such
breezy books as this. He is able to write
of all the main occurrences in Russia
since the war as things he has personally
observed, and he writes, too, with evi-
dent understanding of the people and
their aspirations. His outlook is that the
medicine Russia has been taking is good
stuff for Russia: he does not suggest it
as a universal panacea. Sundry lively
adventures in uneasy, sometimes dan-
gerous and always interesting surround-
ings spice the shrewd observations to
make a book that is fresh and thoroughly
readable all the way.
Of similar kind is The Way of a
Transgressor (examined on page 2).
Llewelyn Powys’s Dorset Essays (Bod-
ley Head; Bs. 6d. net) are 31 variations
on the theme of “a simple attitude
of piety towards every manifestation of
life,” to take a phrase from the author.
The English of them, touched with a
beautiful simplicity throughout, bursts at
times into poetic expression that halts
the reader with a quite arresting loveli-
ness, and puts the book in the rare class
of those that are worth keeping for cer-
tain re-reading. Fine photo, reproduc-
tions in light sepia tones illustrate each
essay. . . , . .
Not quite in that class of fine reflec-
tive prose, but a beautiful piece of writ-
ing and narrative nevertheless, is Willa
Catha’s brief novel Lucy Gay heart
(Cassell; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.).
It is graceful fiction.; the idyll of an
American small-town girl’s May-and-
December love affair with a famous
singer in an idyllically depicted Chicago,
her other lover’s revenge-marriage, the
singer’s departure for Europe, and other
events through which everything goes
astray for everybody. Nothing very
great or original about it, but made an
exceptional piece, of fiction simply by
the sheer beauty of the telling. It has
to do a good deal with music in its
subject-matter, and in both its literary
nature and its effect it is as much like
an exquisitely-played piece of light music
as anything else. A very graceful per-
formance.
Shoulder the Sky, by James Gray
(Chapman and Hall ; 7s. 6d.). To quote
the blurb: “It is a study of the tempera-
mental reactions and misunderstandings
of a highly-strung young married couple.”
He is an American small-town doctor ;
the majority of his cases illegitimate
births. None of the characters appears
quite normal. The book is recom-
mended (the blurb again) to “all those
who have adventured, or are contemplat-
ing, marriage”: the latter, at least, would
probably find a course of Hans Ander-
sen and P. G. Wodehouse of more real
value.
Pied Piper of Lovers, by Lawrence
Durrell (Cassell; 7s. 6d.), recounts the
life, from infancy to young manhood, of
a Eurasian —father an English civil
engineer; mother a Burmese. The boy
was educated in England, and at no stage
encountered the color line. His queer
character is well drawn, and there are
other quaint personalities. Pictures of
life in an English boarding-school and
in Bohemia are convincingly limned.
Clear Horizon, by Dorothy M.
Richardson (Dent and Sons ; 7s. 6d.), is
the latest instalment of the novel-cycle Pil-
grimage. Miriam continues to psycholo-
gise for 239 pages, the only tangible event
a friend, Amabel, gaoled for sulfragetting.
The tense of the narration shifts from
third to first person and back again to
third without apology or explanation;
no conclusion is arrived at on any sub-
ject under discussion, and considerable
mental effort is required to pierce a veil
of obscurity. However, Miriam’s mind
is agile and perceptive, and Miss Richard-
son must be credited .with having
pioneered a new style.
The Riverside Mystery, by John G.
Brandon (Methuen ; 7s. 6d.). London,
enlivened by the presence of an inter-
national dope ring ruled over by an “in-
scrutable Chinee.” Murders, kidnapping,
fistfights and shooting affrays galore.
Hero is the Hon. A. S. Pennington, an
ex-Harrovian with the' features and the
tastes of a beersoak tough.
Hell Beyond the Seas (Bodley Head;
15s. net). An account constructed by A.
Krarup-Nielsen from the MS. of an un-
named Dane, telling of enlistment in the
Foreign Legion and the brutish punish-
ment meted out to him whdn, for in
attempted escape, he spent seven years
as a prisoner (in chains most of the time)
at'the French convict gaol in Guiana.
Grim reading most of it; a harsh com-
mentary on our alleged civilised modern
world, for it happened since 1920.
Life Errant, Cicely Hamilton (Dent;
10s. 6d. net). Memories of touring
theatricals in pre-war England, a little
suffragism, war work in France and
travels in Germany, Italy, Austria and
other European countries since the war
getting the material for her well-observed
books about those places. Lightly enter-
taining.
Mark Twain’s Notebook, edited by
Albert Bigelow Paine (Harper, New
York; from Angus and Robertson;
225. 6d.). The desultory notes kept by
Mark Twain for about 50 years, from
his early apprenticeship as a Mississippi
pilot onwards through his beginnings in
journalism, mining adventures, his trip
round the world, including stays in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, and the rest of his
life to 1908. The editor does a good
job of linking the notes into a continu-
ous narrative, and the book altogether is
a rich addition to what’s known of the
writer.
Playthings of Time, by Arnold Zweig
(Seeker ; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.).
An unpretentious sheaf of excellent short
stories, all on a high level of craftsman-
ship, with one or two gems, including
“The Enemy,” a first-rate war-story, set,
like the author’s The Case of Sergeant
Grischa —one of the greatest of war
novels —over on Germany’s Russian
front: an episode between patrols in a
forest at night into which is concentrated
a great deal of the tragedy of war from
the point of view of the ordinary humans
who become its victims. “A Spot on the
Eyeball” is another capital one, with a
fine idea in it: the fundamental change
—for the good—which comes over the
character of a man through the misfor-
tune of a strained eye altering his vision
and presenting him with a philosophy.
“A Silesian Tale,” in spite of a rather
weak ending, might have been written
specially for Rackham to illustrate.


THE ABILITY TO SPEAK EFFECTIVELY
MEANS fibeJ&gji, sOuufaiiiu/i, ac/u&veutetrf!
Cm jj/mw&icome IfeaJt
and ticuje fjjtujhir?
Cmi^nAmakwidieaiel
V \ (hnipmatyHc&iMMt
I|I7O^WIN?
mi
i
■
*
>*...
•ij
u
mm
I
m:
msam,
■ •' ■ ■ ■ •:■ . ■■■'•" ■ , ■
■
m
um
I—«■
■BP:
THE PRICELESS SECRET
OF A MAGNETIC TALKER
IS NOW OFFERED TO YOU
IN “EFFECTIVE SPEECH.”
Mr. LAWRENCE CAMPBELL, one of Australia’s
leading teachers of elocution, says: . . this new
work is presented on such a sound and natural
basis, is so simple and practical in its teaching, and
is so extensive and complete in the range of its
instruction that it will be a boon to thousands of
men and women who, wishing to develop their
power of self-expression, find it impossible to
receive personal instruction. To these I strongly
recommend the work set out in ‘Effective Speech.’
Follow the simple rules that govern health, body
and breath-control, utterance, power of emphasis,
thought analysis, skill in managing facts, cultiva-
tion of imaginative impulse, readiness of speech,
and the result will be an added charm and dignity
in conversation, and the mastery of a simple,
straightforward, forceful style in influencing your
fellow-men.”
Mr. BRUNTON GIBB, well-known adjudicator,
acclaims “Effective Speech” as “the most practical
and convincing course of self-study that it has been
my pleasure to examine.”
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL FREE!
With the six volumes of “Effective Speech” you
receive a 64-page book on “Speaking Fundamen-
tals.” It is full of sound advice on self-expression,
public speaking, meetings, delivering addresses and
the use of wit, humour and anecdote. It quotes
interesting examples. You also receive 12 practical
discussions in pamphlet form, together with a letter
of personal instruction about each of the 12 lessons
into which the series is divided, and a form of self-
examination for each lesson. The discussions tell
you exactly how to apply what you have just learnt.
The self-examination forms make it easy to check
your progress and guard against omissions. On
.every point, “Effective Speech” gives full and
easily understood instruction.
SPEECH
WILL HELP YOU TO
GREATER SUCCESS
GREATER HAPPINESS
Rich rewards await the man
who can talk well. He stands
out. He attracts the attention
of the leaders in all spheres.
Under all circumstances ...
in business dealings, in selling,
in social and public life . . .
the man who speaks with ease
and fluency stands most chance
of getting what he wants. And
rarely has the spoken word
been of greater value than it
is to-day.
Make yourself master of Effec-
tive Speech by studying the six
books illustrated here. Mental
training, development of per-
sonality, public speaking . . .
all are included in the most
concise and practical home-
study course of its kind.
4fe#
xSj ipcrufr emmcudion cetteclr,
14011 ft Ameck mcujmiie 1
*boeA iit GET YOU
WHAT YOU WANT 7
EFFECTIVE
This Is What You Learn:
How to Think More Clearly How to' Concentrate. Overcoming Fear in
Speaking. Five Simple Rules to Overcome Fear. Methods of Preparing
and Delivering a Speech. Speaking Extemporaneously. Combinations of
Various Methods. How to Present and Accept a Gift. How to Accept an
Office. How to Make an Announcement. The Purpose of a Speech. How
to Respond at a Dinner. How to Make People Laugh. The Use of Stories.
How to Secure a Pleasing Voice. How to Secure Resonance. Correct
Pronunciation —Articulation. Speech Melody. The Parts of a Speech: The
Introduction —the Discussion —the Conclusion. How to Control an Audience.
“A Few Appropriate Remarks” —In Opening a Meeting—ln Introducing a
Speaker—A Speech of Welcome. How to Respond to Such Remarks, etc., etc.
Deiim'ied to ifoidfr home
fot a fjiMt fuufment of onlty^~
r-
Six volumes, x inches, bound in
flexible, dark-red, Morocco-grained artcraft.
This is a real opportunity to develop personality. For the
first time you can secure a complete, concise and self-
contained course in public speaking, prepared by a leading
university professor and an outstanding figure in the business
and financial world . . . successful men both.
SEND THIS FORM AND SECURE YOUR SET
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the six-volume course, “EFFECTIVE SPEECH,’’ with book on
‘Speaking Fundamentals” and 12 practical discussions in pamphlet form. I
enclose a first payment of 5/- and agree to make five further monthly payments
of 10/-, in all £2/15/—. The price for cash within 30 days is £2/10/-.
*AME OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
"Bulletin,” 5/2/’36.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
ngi
iMH
' v ?
■ ■ -
HH
mm
interior of One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2921.
February 5, 1936.
PROTECTORS.
“The League of Nations offers vital security to Australia.” — League official now touring the Commonwealth.
“No need for you to worry, Mbs White Australia. These soldiers of France and Russia will protect you.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
WHEN ISOLATION WAS IN
FLOWER.
Is Seeley’s Expansion of England read now? By
students, perhaps, but probably not by politicians, to
many of whom expansion has become a thing
abhorrent. They and their newspaper friends dwell
more on the idea of giving up colonies won by expan-
sionists than on a chapter of history which, though
admired and envied by other nations, they would
forget if they could. Gallipoli was “the grave of
British imperialism” to one of their prophets, Wells ;
Kipling, the poet of British imperialism, is dead ; and
the practice of imperialism is nowadays .permitted only
to the Red Russians—who, of course, don’t call it that.
Still, the Cambridge historian’s book deserves to
be studied by politicians, if only for the facts he
collected. He shows, among other things, that in
England (as in Australia) woolgrowing was the foun-
dation of the national fortune. In the time of the
Plantagenets,
England subsisted upon her lucrative intercourse
with Flanders. She produced the wool which was
manufactured there; she was to Flanders what Australia
is now to the West Riding. London was as Sydney,
Ghent and Bruges were as Leeds and Bradford
This continued until the Elizabethan age.
Then, “about the time that the maritime greatness
of England was beginning, she began to be a great
manufacturing country.”
The manufactures of Flanders perished in the war
of the Low Countries with Spain. Flemish manufac-
turers swarmed over into England. Through the
whole seventeenth century England manufactured her
own product, wool. Instead of being mainly a pro-
ducing country, as before, or mainly a manufacturing
country, as now, she was a country manufacturing
what she herself produced.
Australia is doing the same to an increasing
extent, and it would be to Australia’s advantage, and
that of Britain likewise, if the process were acceler-
ated. The need for immigrants is again being
felt. It could be in part supplied, and some of the
objections to it would be silenced, by the transfer of
woollen and tweed mills and millworkers from
depressed areas in the North of England to suitable
inland parts of this country.
Their economic strength thus established, the
English made the most of their favorable political
situation when men began to look beyond Europe:
Connected but slightly with the European system
since she evacuated France in the fifteenth century,
England has not since then lived in chronic war with
her neighbors. Her hands have always been free....
In the long run this advantage has been decisive
Out of five States which competed for the New World
[Spain, Portugal, France, Holland and England] success
has fallen to that one which was least hampered by the
Old World.
That decisive advantage exists no longer. Our post-
war British politicians have flung it away by involving
their country in the League system. And by involving
Britain they have involved the Empire, for, although
the Dominions are nominally independent of British
foreign policy, they could not leave the motherland
in the lurch. Nor would any enemy respect this
nominal independence if it suited him to ignore it.
In the past ambitious Powers with a thirst for
military adventures were restrained by fears of what
Britain might do, British policy being then unknown
and unpredictable with any certainty. They now
know what to expect. By virtue of the Covenant of
the League of Nations and the interpretation
placed upon it by zealots like Mr. Anthony Eden, the
English are now bound to interfere, and the
Dominions with them, in every quarrel in which
League members are concerned ; and there are the
seeds of scores of quarrels in the Treaty of Versailles
alone. Britain and the Dominions have guaranteed
the political and territorial integrity of every other
member of the League; and some members are
mischievous, and others have colonies which they
cannot themselves defend. It has even been held that
once a country has been declared a belligerent, whether
a member of the League or not, neither Britain nor
any of the Dominions has the right to decide for
itself the nature or extent of the coercive measures
it must apply: that is a matter for a Geneva com-
mittee, headed by a Mexican or a Peruvian, a gentle-
man from Lisbon or from the Levant.
Seeley’s most pregnant chapter deals with the
loss of the American colonies; the “schism in Greater
Britain,” as he calls it. Chatham he hails as “a states-
man of Greater Britain” ; “his old age was spent in
trying to avert schism in Greater Britain” —a thing
which is never likely to be written of Mr. Anthony
Eden. But when Chatham was old, “narrow-minded
and perverse” men had the misdirection of affairs ;
so a Stamp Act was passed, much as the Covenant
of the League and “sanctions” were adopted:
Parliament found on the Order of the Day a pro-
posal for taxing the colonies, and passed it as a matter
of course, with as little attention as is now given to the
Indian Budget The Stamp Act was passed with
scarcely a division, almost without notice.
Followed the American Revolution and the
secession of the first Greater Britain. A second
arose, and the thirteen colonies became the world’s
foremost republic—in each case largely as the result
of an isolationist policy, such as now excites the
derision of British “Liberal” newspapers. Seeley
describes the influences which the English-speaking
empire receives from the English-speaking republic
and exerts upon it, closing with words which remain
as true as when they were written nearly half a
century ago:
There is no topic so pregnant as this of the mutual
influences of the branches of the English race. The
whole future of the planet depends upon it.
After a great crisis, which brought them together
for a season, the leader of the branch that separated
took the initiative in forming the League to enforce
peace which has developed into a combination to
prevent change in a changing world. His country-
men refused to follow him. Without inquiring too
curiously as to their motives, we now see that they
were right, and we have cause to envy the isolation
they have regained.
LOSSES AND BOSSES.
Among the peculiar features of the peculiar system
under which peculiar politicians spend the taxpayers’
money, one of the most peculiar is the accepted
understanding that Government railway systems (there
are seven) cannot be operated except at a heavy
annual loss. It was not always so. In the simple
old days before machine politics were thoroughly
organised they were expected to make a profit, just
as Australia’s privately-owned railways are expected
to make a profit to-day —and do. If running costs,
plus interest, seemed likely to prove too high for
revenue, economies were practised. Incompetent, lazy
or superfluous staff got an enforced opportunity to
try some other job. In fact, Government railway
departments were regarded as existing for the public
benefit.
Nowadays the public is regarded as existing for
the benefit of Government railway departments. The
last Commonwealth “Transport and Communication
Bulletin” shows a loss of £3,227,900 on Government
railways for the year to June 30, 1934. Queensland
was the only division that reported a profit (£170,400
was claimed), but this was merely a piece of figure-
juggling made possible by the transfer of £28,000,000
of capital cost to a separate fund: the real
figures would have shown, with exchange, a loss
of about £1,500,000. If the Queensland practice
spreads, all Government railway systems will soon be
showing handsome profits, but the taxpayer will con-
tinue to foot the bill for the concealed losses, as in
Queensland.
In point of fact, annual deficits are grossly under-
stated. Subventions from tax-revenue (£BOO,OOO p.a.
in N. S. Wales alone) are reckoned among railway
receipts, and depreciation, a necessary item in private
railway accounts, is either nominal or non-existent.
Even so, railway deficits for the ten years to June 30,
1934, during three of which “the Queensland capital
account was reduced” (from just on £60,000,000) “by
£28,000,000,” were estimated by the Commonwealth
Statistician at £52,869,400.
That economies can be effected is obvious from
comparisons with losses in especially bad years. There
has been a steady fall from the £9,439,600 deficit
admitted in 1930-31. In four years to June 30, 1933,
staffs were reduced by over 16 per cent, and working
expenses came down by 26 per cent, per train-mile.
Though more mileage was opened for traffic, fewer
train-miles were run. And the loan conversions helped
materially: for example, the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment’s interest-and-exchange bill was £7,826,400 in
1931-32, £6,480,400 in 1934-35. But it is common
knowledge that Government railway systems are
still heavily overstaffed, imperfectly controlled and
uneconomically operated. Indeed, peculiar politicians
are yielding to the demand that railwaymen should
be kept on the strength even when there is little or
nothing for them to do.
There are 100,000 Government railway employees,
all banded in trade-unions, and their votes are
important. Labor Governments could not do with-
out them. And non-Labor Governments fear the
power of the railwaymen’s unions to cause strikes.
Since the development of road-transport, railway
strikes are not the effective weapons which they were,
although they are still formidable possibilities in
relation to our overgrown capital cities. A well-
organised system of commercial road-transport could
break any railway strike in short order. Realisation
of this fact in Queensland, together with a conscious-
ness of the possibility that denial of the use of the
King’s highways to the King’s subjects may lead to
still worse forms of tyranny, accounts for much of
the opposition to the State Transport Board, which is
trying to run all road-transport out of business on
the alleged ground that it constitutes an unfair and
uneconomic competitor with the Government railways.
The truth is that actual competition is negligible and
that there is ample need for both railways and road-
transport. Effective rural rail-service is impossible
without effective rural road-transport as feeder and
distributor. The public demands the continuance of
road-transport. But, if departmental and trade-union
bosses have their way, it will be put out, and kept
out, of business, not in Queensland alone but in all
the mainland States.
The question is whether the Government railway
interest, which annually costs the people millions
more than it earns, is to be allowed to deprive the
people of modern conveniences to which they are
entitled, at the same time depriving them of the only
weapon which can successfully avert or break a
general railway strike. Will the people permit com-
mercial road-transport to be taxed or regulated out
of existence? Will they not rather insist on thorough
investigation of all Government railway departments
with the objective of reorganising them on a proper
basis of economy and efficiency?
AN AUSTRALIAN IN ROME.
If ever physician provided a timely antidote in a
nasty case of attempted poisoning, Dr. H. M. Moran,
of Sydney, does so with his “Letters from Rome.”
In Dr. Moran’s view, “no country in the world
is more susceptible to tendentious news” than Aus-
tralia ; “no people an easier prey to propaganda” than
Australians. He believes also that “some day” Aus-
tralia may “become embroiled, for want of know-
ledge, in some shameful adventure.”
But “want of knowledge” is not the complete
diagnosis. The trouble is not nearly so innocent.
Want of knowledge is a dangerous, but not a sinister,
complaint. It is poisoning by corrupt, mendacious or
misleading report that is the fatal evil.
We are told many things in disparagement and
ridicule of Italy and Mussolini; many things designed
to evoke sympathy for Abyssinia and the Negus;
many things calculated to inspire enthusiasm in the
League and faith in a temporary foreign policy of as
vague and groping a troupe of politicians as Commons
and Lords ever got together to set the Empire an
example in ineptitude. That is the direct poisoning.
Marconi, the inventor of broadcasting, has his
offer to present the Italian case refused by the 8.8. C.
Cable factories take the lead from that denial of free-
dom of speech, and information is selected for us
accordingly.
On such a starved victim the poorest dosage of
the poison acts. Dr. Moran tells us that when the
new Lord Mayor took office in London the Italian
Ambassador “was singled out for very special, spon-
taneous and fervent acclamation.” No great signifi-
cance in that: merely the authentic note of traditional
English decency, above the hates of little, snarling
minds. On the day it was published—in Dr. Moran’s
letters —Sydney newspapers reported that “the
International Defence Organisation” had protested
to the Italian Consul-General against alleged bomb-
ings of the Red Cross.
Those same “atrocities” intoxicated the “Herald”
to the war-drunk shrieks of a foolish leading
article, concluding: “Will not the League Powers
find themselves brought abruptly to face the supreme
decision —that the upshot must be peace by negotia-
tion without further delay, or war to enforce it?”
That peddling of insults, that shrieking of war,
over “atrocities” which had been so grossly mis-
reported that now, after inquiry into them, “the Inter-
national Red Cross has decided not to act! ” Another
insult to Abyssinia, or simply that the International
Red Cross is too near the scene to be a prey to
poisonous propaganda?
We were told (December 5): “No British news-
paper and only one French newspaper can be purchased
in Rome to-day” ; with the poison-tipped addendum:
“Officials blame the traffic confusion, but Austrian,
German and Hungarian newspapers are obtainable.’
At that same time, Dr. Moran, as an Australian in
Rome, was impressed by the fact that at the kiosks
in the streets he could “buy the journals of a dozen
countries (except the ‘Daily Telegraph’), and this at a
time of war which means life and death to the State.
We were told (November 29) that “a distaste
for war, verging on despair,” was growing in
Italy; there were “restlessness and apprehension ’ :
“serious disorders” were “rumored,in the provinces.’
On December 7 Dr. Moran was writing to Australia
describing how he had stood that same week and
watched the spontaneous “coming and going of rich
and poor with their offerings of gold and silver” ; how
bishops gave their pectoral crosses, rabbis gifts from
the treasures of the synagogues, Pirandello his Nobel
prize, athletes their trophies.
Even the death of King George was not sacred
to the users of the poison-tip. The first news of the
King’s illness was reported on the morning of Satur-
day, January 18. Less than 12 hours later the cables
had informed us that “So far no message has come
from Mussolini, but various messages have been
received from officials in Italy, expressing sympathy.'
We know now that when the King died flags were
half-masted thrdqghout Italy, the Crown Prince was
present at the funeral and Mussolini attended the
memorial service in an Anglican church at Rome,
standing throughout.
Of the Italian people Dr. Moran reports that they
stand to-day “steady, united and unafraid. Never
was the present regime more firmly fixed in the hearts
of the people.”
That not only a result of leadership. As an
observer on the spot, the massing of our fleet in the
Mediterranean seemed to Dr. Moran “a psychological
blunder of the first magnitude. The lukewarm interest
of a contented people concerning the Abyssinian
venture was suddenly quickened by a keen resentment
against what they considered a provocative act.
What that commenced sanctions completed. “If the
mobilisation of a great fleet stirred the popula-
tion from the lethargy of routine work, the imposi-
tions of sanctions brought every individual to his feet.
The service Dr. Moran does Australia is a
matter not of the rights of Italy but of our own
democratic rights to the truth. Italy is welcome to
Fascism and the African war. Australia wants none
of them. But Australia is healthier for an antidote
against being drugged by falsehood into ignorance
and ignorant actions.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Net Loan Expenditure.”
The Financial Agreement, though rightly hailed as
an epoch-making reform, has, when put to the test,
proved as ambiguous as parts of the Constitution to
which it has been added. The consequence is that
the country is subjected to vast expense for meetings
of Treasury and Law officers to try to discover what
certain passages and phrases actually mean.
An army of officials from all parts of Australia,
Westralia excepted, assembled at Canberra during
the week to try to interpret the meaning of the phrase
“net loan expenditure.”
Spendthrift State Treasurers argue that the words
do not include that portion of loan expenditure used
to finance deficits. The Commonwealth Government
contends that loan funds appropriated to cover deficits
must come within the term “net loan expenditure.”
Another nice point under consideration is the
claim by Speck Premier Ogilvie that unexpended
balances from a previous year should not be taken
into account in framing annual loan-works alloca-
tions. The practice insisted upon by the Common-
wealth is to include its unexpended balance of loan
funds in the allocation of loan money to each State.
If Mr. Ogilvie’s claim were upheld, unscrupulous
State Treasurers could, by pressing for more than they
really intend to spend, accumulate large unexpended
balances against a rainy day, and thus obtain an
advantage over other States in times when loan money
is harder to obtain —as it may become in the future.
All these points should have been cleared up in
1927, when the Financial Agreement was before the
Australian Parliaments, but the work was done in
a sloppy fashion, and now the taxpayers have to pay
for this carelessness. The agreement can be altered
only by unanimous consent of the seven Australian
Governments and the seven Australian Parliaments.
Meanwhile the Loan Council is wandering in a
labyrinthine tangle of technicalities, and operations
which in themselves are perfectly simple are becoming
more and more complicated.
■ ♦
“Vital Security.”
Doubtless with the belated idea of sugar-coating the
pill prepared for Australia (“you must be prepared
to fight for the League”), Mr. Duncan Hall, a wander-
ing member of the vast Geneva bureaucracy, asserts
that his show “offers vital security to Australia and
its Pacific possessions.” If Mr. Duncan Hall really
believes this, he is the champion of champion
optimists.
“Vital security” implies complete protection for
the White Australia policy, and the local Russian
party’s attitude to that policy is expressed in the
slogan “Down with it!” And France, having itself
no color line, could not fight for the preservation of
a color line in Australia ; to do so would be to lose
its African and Asian colonies and a large part of
its army. With Italy antagonised, there is no other
League country whose help to Australia in its
imagined extremity would be worth a row of pins.
Mr. Duncan Hall has no political nous at all.
+
The Treatment of Paralysis.
Dear Bulletin, —Pasteur expressed a great truth
when he said “Chance favors only the mind that is
prepared.” By that he meant that scientific discoveries
are made after a long period of preparation.
Sister Kenny is not of this class. She admits that
she has had no training in anatomy and physiology ;
says she has' to depend on medical advice as to
which muscles are paralysed. Now, how can any
individual who has no knowledge of anatomy or the
function of muscles train paralysed muscles?
The writer had an opportunity to see Sister
Kenny’s film which has so much impressed Mr.
Hughes and other lay observers. There were children
shown in it walking with foot-drop from paralysis
of the muscles in front of the leg and over-extended
(or knees curved backwards) from paralysis of the
muscles in front of the thigh. If Sister Kenny can
cure paralysis, why did she not cure these groups of
muscles?
Sister Kenny disapproves of splinting paralysed
muscles, thus casting overboard the accumulated
experience gained in the World War in connection
with the treatment of neuro-muscular injuries. She
has probably never heard of the results obtained by
splinting. It is easy to take away splints, but think
of the crop of deformities that will certainly follow!
Unsupported knees have a habit of becoming recurved
or hyperextended, thus leading to a very crippling
deformity. Feet with support from external braces
will become deformed or flattened in a very short
time.
The only cases of infantile paralysis in which the
patient recovers under Sister Kenny’s care are those
in which the vis medicatrix naturce operates —a law
that every physician and surgeon knows.
“I dressed the wound, God healed,” said Ambrose
Pare. Sister Kenny receives credit due to the Almighty,
for the tendency in infantile paralysis is towards
recovery of muscle-function rather than the reverse.
Sister Kenny does not believe in operations,
because she knows nothing of their technique or pur-
pose. How can she, since she has never been trained
in orthopaedic nursing?
J h «,9 overnment Australia and that of New
South Wales should examine Sister Kenny’s creden-
tials before accepting and acting on claims made for
her treatment. —Yours etc., Specialist.
♦
Anti-Socialism and Municipal Socialism.
Sydney’s County Council, a recent creation of
Sydney’s anti-Socialist Government, has vexed that
Government (which has been disposing of State
quarries and pipeworks) and infuriated many of its
supporters by proposing to trade in electric gadgets.
The Government never dreamed of such a develop-
ment when it set up the County Council, which has
a U.A.P. M.L.A. for chairman, “to take over the elec-
tricity powers and functions of the City Council.”
The City Council used to sell electric gadgets,
and Arthur Joseph McElhone says “the results
were disastrous.” And he ought to know—he belongs
to City Council and County Council, has been Lord
Mayor, and has from time to time been accused by
U.A.P. worthies of being a Labor-socialist at heart.
The most distinguished part of the City Council’s
performance as trader in electric appliances was the
balance sheet. Administrative expenses in the sale-
rooms, usually over 30 per cent, of turnover in a
private business, were alleged to be only 2.3 per cent.
Depreciation of stock and fittings was estimated in one
year at 0.06 per cent. For rent of the showroom, which
covered several thousand square feet in one of the
busiest buildings in the city, £2 a week was charged.
A Government committee of which the Town
Clerk was a member reported in 1930 in favor of the
council displaying electrical goods to demonstrate
their utility, but not selling them —sales were to be
effected through retailers who subscribed to joint
advertising. Then came depression and Mr. Lang,
and the scheme was killed.
Of course, the happy thought of another con-
ference suggested itself to the Government, but it
can’t get rid of its responsibilities that way. It is a
case in which action is necessary. The Government’s
anti-Socialist pretensions will be all cant and humbug
if it allows an exploded form of municipal trading
to be revived by an instrument of its own invention
at the expense of taxpayers.
<►
More Necessary Corrections.
Premier Forgan Smith’s Official Secretary, who
pronounced a Bulletin statement that Brisbane “has
no factories to speak of” “a serious misstatement
of fact” necessitating “a correction in an early issue,”
should hurl a few demands for withdrawals at the
compilers of his Government’s publication Queens-
land in Cameo. “The Story of Progress,” one of the
main articles, does not refer to Queensland manu-
factures at all, though it deals with every other source
of production. Equally silent is a “Labor and Indus-
try” section. But the “Trade and Commerce” sum-
mary says something:
The greater portion of imports... .has come from
other States, particularly from the manufacturing
centres of N.S.W. and Victoria... .Queensland’s pur-
chases from other States are chiefly manufactured goods,
and they exceed the purchases in other States of.
Queensland goods by £4,000,000. Queensland provides
a very large and satisfactory market for the factory
goods purchased in Sydney and Melbourne Every
variety of industrial, household and personal com-
modity was included.
It is set out proudly that in the worst trade year,
1931-32, Queensland’s purchases from other States
were worth £13,000,000, and
Brisbane is not centrally located, and does not domi-
nate the trade of the State as do other capitals. A
great deal of trade passes Brisbane altogether on its
way to and from the southern capitals.
South Australia, with barely 600,000 people
(Queensland has nearly a million), no coal and com-
paratively poor supplies of raw materials, can fairly
claim that it- has “the biggest furniture and tinware
factories in Australia, the largest motor-body-
building works in the Southern Hemisphere, and
the most up-to-date silver-lead smelting works in the
world.” Why has this State made such progress in a
field wherein Queensland, with far greater resources
and opportunities, reported fewer hands employed in
1934-35 than in 1913? It is a question that Queens-
land Labor should seriously ask itself, for Queens-
land Labor is chiefly responsible for the poor showing.
*
A Flying Doctor—and No ’Plane.
A story that Henry Lawson would have loved:
To Wilcannia (N.S.W.) at midday on December 31 word
came by telegraph from Tilpa, 84 miles up the Darling, that
a woman with acute appendicitis was stranded there. The
message arrived via Bourke, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Broken Hill and Menindie, for the direct telephone and
telegraph line had been broken the day before ; torrential
rains had fallen, and for a radius of over 100 miles from
Wilcannia the roads were practically impassable.
Crises seem always to breed difficulties, and the drama
that followed proved no exception. Efforts already started
to locate the break were now redoubled, and negotiations for
the charter of an aeroplane were begun, but, owing to the
hampered communications, they were completed too late
for practical use before dark. Second and third messages
from the nurse in charge of the case stated that the patient
was becoming worse, and that they were about to attempt
the apparently impossible trip in a car driven by a station-
owner who has unselfishly responded to similar calls four
times in eight months. There are four excellent landing-
grounds between Wilcannia and Tilpa, all near homesteads
passed by the patient. At sunrise on New Year’s Day a
chartered ’plane landed on one of these grounds. . The car
party had left it.
It was a dreadful journey. (Another car attempting it
was bogged for days.) At times the wheels had to be
removed for clearing the glutinous, black-soil mud stuck
under the guards. The lights had fused, and it took nearly
two hours intensive working in slush and rain to find
and rectify the fault. And the chains kept breaking. But
16 hours after leaving Tilpa the car reached Wilcannia, with
driver and patient exhausted.
It was not too late. The patient was operated upon;
the operation was a success, and the lady was discharged
from hospital on January 10. The medical superintendent of
the hospital Wilcannia and District—is a licensed pilot. A
light ’plane stationed at Wilcannia could have dealt with
the case promptly and saved the patient the pain, the delay
and the consequent exhaustion.
Apart from life-and-death emergencies, which are not
uncommon, such an aeroplane would be invaluable for
routine work and service to remote towns like Ivanhoe,
White Cliffs and Wanaaring—not to mention Tilpa—none of
which possesses a doctor. Their distances vary from 64
to 140 miles.
Many of the landing-grounds are so confined that they
would not accommodate anything larger than a light two-seater
’plane. Provision of such, with the doctor acting as pilot (as
he is willing to do), would (a) enable medical attention to be
brought direct to the isolated patient, and ( b ) render avail-
able the passenger’s seat for a patient, if necessary. Wil-
cannia is the ideal centre, the geographic hub, equipped
as it is with an efficient X-ray plant and up-to-date operating
theatre, where an average of three major operations is main-
tained weekly.
The State Government long ago announced its intention
of placing an ambulance ’plane in the Far West. Represen-
tations were made a year ago, but the matter is “still under
consideration.” Yet a mere £llOO would suffice, and the
Hospital Board is prepared to find £4OO of it. And, once
established, such an aerial ambulance service would be self-
supporting.
Established .it should be, of course. Still, the
people along the Darling mustn’t expect too much of
their Sydney Government. It is busy with plans for
spending £15,000,000 on sewerage for Sydney suburbs,
as well as “sixty schemes for country towns” ; so
proposals for helping isolated communities to help
themselves are apt to be overlooked.
«
“Prosperity Has Returned.”
More and more politicians are raising this cry.
Others just go quietly on, adding steadily to the vast
pile of unproductive debt and keeping their voters
sweet.
The Federal Treasurer administers a “severe
rebuke” to a retiring Federal Auditor-General who,
among other things, denounced the form in which
the public accounts are presented as misleading.
Shortly afterwards the same Federal Treasurer blandly
explains that there will be a surplus of £2,000,000 or so
for the fiscal year—in plainer words, that an unneces-
sary £2,000.000 or so is being wrung from the taxpayer.
Land tax, sales tax and high income taxes still con-
tinue, as does the petrol tax of l\d. a gallon. And
pensions soar to the tune of an additional £2,000,000
with every year since the inquiries as to eligibility
ceased.
We must not blame the Federal spending-machine
for all of it. Canberra politicians economised in
places. From the beginning of the depression they
cut down expenditure on defence. They waste no
money on the guarding of our northern coasts from
untaxed exploiters of our sea-resources. They decline
to do anything to help in the way of subsidising sea-
training of boys in our merchant services, explaining
blandly—as Mr. Lyons did recently—that quite
enough openings exist already.
And the States are getting in some splendid pros-
perity work with railways which carry staffs 10 per cent,
superfluous, and which are run to suit the employees.
Unemployment relief is also well done—in Queens-
land the expenditure on relief actually rises with
every fall in union unemployment rates. And, over-
manned as State public services are, a well-buttered
crust can always be found for a few more employees,
though the tendency nowadays is to call them mem-
bers of boards. It costs money, of course, but when
the interpretation of the borrowing formula has been
“revised” by the Loan Council any difficulty of that
kind may be got over.
The public goose is laying its golden eggs again,
but not fast enough for vote-catching needs. Instead
of feeding up the bird by remission of imposts on
private enterprise, and the adoption in the field of
public enterprise of such valuable advice as that which
chairman Rivett, of the C.S.LR., has given regarding
a scientific continent-wide search for gold, our
politicians are fingering the taxation axe with the
idea of reaching the source of egg-supply in one
operation. As AEsop’s boneheaded poultry-farmer
discovered long ago, it is an unwise and wasteful
operation.
♦
Melbourne’s Memorial.
John Longstaff has put forward a sane suggestion
for Melbourne’s memorial to King George. He advo-
cates the completion of the State Parliament House,
according to the original design, which shows the
building crowned by a graceful dome. It would then
dominate Melbourne, standing as it does on the
highest ground, and for miles in every direction the
King George Memorial would rise as the mark of a
great city.
Parliament House, Melbourne, even in its
unfinished condition, is not merely one of the finest
buildings in Australia, but one of the finest buildings
in the world. It is designed in strict accordance with
the canons of classical architecture without being
cold. It is Roman in its details, but its general
atmosphere is charged with a beauty which is essen-
tially Greek. It occupies a unique site on the crest
of a hill; it faces an important thoroughfare, permit-
ting it to terminate a vista a mile long; and it is
surrounded on all sides by open spaces and gardens.
Of all the best-known Legislatures, only Washington,
D.C., occupies a position at all comparable. Neither
the House of Commons in London nor the Chamber
of Deputies in Paris has been nearly so well favored.
The only objection to Longstaff’s scheme is that
the Parliaments of all the States are in the condemned
cell. But, even were State Parliaments abolished
to-morrow, there would still be found use for a build-
ing such as this.
If Melbourne decides to accept the artist’s advice,
it will possess a memorial to the reign of King George
which no other centre of the Empire can hope to
surpass.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Subbub”: For many months my neigh-
bor Ned held the Sydney-Eastwood
slumber record. Almost before the train
was clear of Wynyard he would be nod-
ding gently, but he had a wonderful
knack of waking up just before he
reached his destination. Somebody
christened him “Dormouse,” and the
name stuck. A night of hectic Christmas
shopping was Dormouse’s downfall. He
missed his usual train and companions,
and staggered under the weight of a
multitude of parcels into the 8.45 or
thereabouts. Unusually fatigued, he fell
asleep at once, and woke with a start
to see the train gliding slowly through
his station. “Hell! ”he said, and, seizing
parcels, hat' and gamp, took a brave leap
to the platform, coming to rest in a hori-
zontal position with his Christmas shop-
ping strewn for yards around. Then the
train stopped, and the other passengers
alighted.
4! 4= 4= 4=
“Also R.A.N.”: Diggers were always
upsetting the susceptibilities of over-
conscientious Regular officers by not salut-
ing on every possible occasion. But put
this on the other side of the ledger.
When T. E. Lawrence was practically
Governor of Damascus he arrived at his
hotel to find a number of matters marked
“Urgent” waiting for his attention.
Among them were some death sentences,
the appointment of a new justiciary, the
probability of a barley famine next day
if the train could not be made to work,
and a complaint that some of his Arabs
had been slack about saluting Australian
officers!
4: 4= 4= 4=
“Set Square”: Melbourne Town Hall
has been washed down by the fire brigade
and looks all the better for it. But the
result might be different in the case of
other fine buildings; it all depends on
the nature of the stone. A few years
back the desire to provide work led some
inartistic official to have the facade of
the old Treasury Building at the top of
Collins-street cleaned down. Before
cleaning it was a thing of exquisite
beauty. Each individual stone had
weathered to a warm tone of brown, dif-
fering from its fellows but harmonising
with them. Now it will be another 20
years before it recovers its old charm.
The Town Hall is constructed of a dif-
ferent material; age, in place of improv-
ing it, makes it look dirty, and the wash
is all to the good. Paris cleans down
most of its buildings regularly, but only
when the place is beginning to look
shabby.
4c 4: 4: 4:
“Oran”: I am convinced that “Fer-
ment,” who enumerates (B. 22/1 / ’36) a
list of beverages missed by bards, has
never been a regular attendant at the
Band of Hope. I was, and in my youth
I sang many a lay castigating intoxicants
and extolling the virtues of pure water.
One ditty I remember, sung to a rollick-
ing tune, had a chorus which ended with:
Oh, a foolish man was Sandy;
He spent his money every week
On gin, stout, rum and brandy.
Sandy, of course, came to a ghastly end,
which he surely deserved after mixing his
drinks like that.
4c 4c 4= *
“Cam Cove”: The dolly dyes men-
tioned by “M.G.” (B. 22/1/’36) have
been removed from the Archibald foun-
tain in Hyde Park. I didn’t object to
them, because it proved that there was
aldermanic interest in the gift, if not in
“Anything I can do for you, sir?”
“Remind me when We get ashore to send a cheque to the seamens
strike fund."
its artistic conception. Now even that
interest has gone, and the lovely group
stands dusty and barren all day in the
sun. The water-spray, which is part of
the memorial, is turned off every day,
and is permitted grudgingly for a little
while only at night.
4c 4C 4S *
“Jurgen”: I am filled with admira-
tion for a Greek gentleman of Brisbane,
aged 83. He was lumbered for illegal
distilling, and in his defence it was
urged that he brewed only the Greek
beverage of mastik for his own use
and as a corrective for his asthma. In
other days writer had a fad for sampling
strange drinks, and the opportunity to
try mastik once occurred in Alexandria
—once only. The stuff is distilled from
grape juice, aniseed and caraway seed,
and tastes like a combination of proof
spirit, anise, kummel and hellfire. The
only stuff I ever found to equal it was
slovitz, the special tipple of the Serb.
One dose of that revealed to me why
existence in the Balkans is so full of un-
expected little surprises. A people full
of slovitz could raise a revolution in hell
and get away with it.
sfc * H* *
“El V.”: Having inspected “Lorelai’s”
memory (B. 29/1/’36) per medium of his
paragraph about Kipling’s Kim, I sug-
gest that he drop it over a precipice in
the Suleimans or have it blown from a
gun for treachery. Beattie —or Beatty or
Beaty (since records spell as you please)
—is not, never has been and never will
be “chief of police at Quetta,” and in his
late middle age has not attained an
official position which entitles him to
entry in the “India List,” which cata-
logues every personality in Hindustan
above the rank of chowkidar to the Vice-
roy or thereabouts. And, if he was indig-
nant at being taken for the original Kim
because the latter was a half-caste, he
hadn’t read his Kim. Kim’s father
was Irish and his mother was English,
though he was adopted by a native lady,
as is all made quite clear. And, having
known Kim’s original, who, like a lot of
originals, was merely the kernel of the
final conception, 1 could not conceive of
his kindliness allowing him to get into
a rage about anything.
b #
* _ ... ...
“Bokio : 1 saw' King George
once, and t * iat , was mere^ L
glimpse. We were in rest billets we I
behind the line when word came through
from divvy h.q. that H.M. would inspect
the troops the next day. Followed a
scene of wild activity. Trace chains were
put in chaff bags and forcibly agitated
to ensure a burnished appearance, all
white gear was pipeclayed, boots and leg-
gings were brilliantly shined and pints of
brass polish splashed about. There was
snow on the ground, too, which didn’t
make the handling of harness and iron-
work any more pleasant. At sparrow-
chirp next morning we were up and at
it again, to be drawn up, resplendent, by
the roadside at 10.30, the hour for the
royal hop-over. Eleven o’clock, and still
a Rex-less road. Another half-hour and
the mob were beginning to get restive,
and were freely offering advice to
the officers to call the show off. Sud-
denly a big limousine loomed over the
distant rise. “Here’s George Woodbine
now,” someone growled. We had just
been drawn to attention, with no time
for any other order, when the great car
tore past, its flying wheels shooting gal-
lons of mud from the pave road over
beautifully tanned boots and leggings and
puttees. As it passed we caught an in-
distinct glimpse of what seemed a tangled
mass of equerries, aides and military
brasshats, and a hand being raised to
a cap. That inspection, lasting exactly
l|sec., was over. Nobody blamed the
King, but what was yelled after the
speeding car by the half-frozen Diggers
would have rattled any War Office wallah
who caught the drift of it.
* * * *
“Fiona”: A clergyman who used to be
a surfer relates an experience that
turned him for ever into a silent bather.
Noticing a pretty young thing venturing
rather far out, he decided to stand by
and see that she came to no harm.
Exhorting her to be careful, he lurked in
her vicinity, occasionally calling a word
of warning as an extra large wave
appeared. The girl stayed out in
dangerous water for so long that he
finally decided to ask another bather to
keep an eye on her, but as soon as he
turned away she dashed past him for
the shore. He waded out, to be con-
fronted by a large woman who, bringing
a parasol heavily down on him, de-
manded how he dared go on like that!
To a gathering crowd she related that he
had been annoying her daughter in the
surf, making the pore girl in her terror
take to deep water, and keeping her there
till she was near done for. The astounded
young man, speechless with shock,
bolted for the shed. Never again by
word or sign did he evince any interest
in bathing-beauties.
* * * *
“G.A.L.”: Australian jack-tars are
not quite so badly treated as “Kellick"
makes out (B. 15/1/’36). True, in
N.S.W. and Vic. “Jack” has to pay tram
fares, but in other States such transport
is free. Also, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and Darwin turn on pictures, dances,
sports and factory inspections—all gratis,
Hobart even goes to the limit of throw-
ing the local brewery open for inspec-
tion to show its appreciation of “Jack’s”
presence in the port.
4c * * 4=
“Janus”: Tennyson, of course, glori-
fied war (B. 22/1 /’36); after all it was
the prevailing sentiment in early- and
mid-Victorian times, and he did no more
than echo it. Still, perhaps he went
further than most of his contemporary
bards, apart from having a far wider
audience. I remember to have seen one
line quoted against him (though I never
could find it in his published works),
alleged to have been written at the outset
of the Crimea campaign:
Now the long, long canker of peace is
over and done.
The canker of peace! What an im-
measurable distance it connotes between
the 1850’s and the 1930’5!
4c He * *
“Fiona”: The latest development in
the bag-snatching line. A well-dressed
woman, carrying a purse well-filled to
sample the bargain sales, was
walking quietly down the road
in our suburb when a youth
stopped her and breathlessly
asked to be directed to the near-
est doctor’s. An accident —no
time to lose. The woman was
giving him directions when her
bag was snatched from behind,
and the thief bolted. Shouting
“I’ll catch him!” the first youth
dashed after the other, and the
bereft citizeness waited anxiously
for something to happen. No-
thing did. Neither the young
men nor the bag appeared again.
* * *
“Old Roundsman”:
Turned up at the sub-
editor’s desk at the
Melb. “Argus” office
with a wad of crime
copy on the night of
Queen Victoria’s death.
Guy Innes, now in
London, was officiating
and opening wire after
wire from country
centres, each and every
one beginning “Quite a
gloom was cast over,
etc.” “It would save a
lot of space,” Innes
suggested, “if we just got out a table of
the country townships and headed it
‘Quite a gloom was cast over the follow-
ing,’ appending an alphabetical list.
Then he opened another wire. “Hooray!'
he yelled as he waved it in triumph.
“Minyip has put itself on the map.
Listen: ‘Minyip—Friday. Minyip has
been plunged into poignant grief.’ ”
* * * *
“Findy”: Reference to Police Com-
missioner Tolmer (B. 15/1/’36) reminds
me that his autobiography is one of the
most readable books obtainable on the
early days of South Australia. Its title
is worth quoting for its length alone. As
far as I can remember it runs: The
Life of Alexander Tolmer, Being Remi-
niscences of a Chequered Career at Home
and in the Antipodes. I fancy it was
the uniform given to his troopers by
Tolmer, based upon that of his old regi-
ment, that earned for Adelaide the
description “the place where the police-
men wear funny hats.”
* * * *
“Scribe” recalls a day with royalty:
I spent a full day with King George
when, as Duke of York, he visited Australia
in 1900. He had a brief spell from cere-
monial to enjoy a shooting excursion to Pear-
son’s station, outside Sale, Gippsland, and we
gents, of the press were there to describe him
with the frills off. Our first check was when
Guy Madden, son of the C.J., told us on Sale
station that on no account could any re-
porters accompany the cavalcade. >' e
appealed to Madden, senior, who smiled as
he introduced a legal fiction. “Of course,
he told us, “no reporters may be present,
but I see no insuperable objection to three
additional detectives accompanying the party.
We took the tip, and clambered into the
buggy where Detectives Ward and Christie
were seated. When Guy Madden saw us out
on the shooting ground he spoke so stern!'
to his parent that for the moment I feared
he might be committed for contempt. As for
the Duke himself, he looked happier than »
had even seen him in Melbourne. He went
out scouting for birds with the gamekeeper,
and got a good bag. The guest of honor
was surrounded by an entourage of dukes
honorables and other patricians who were
shockingly disappointing in their diction
Neither the future King nor any of his aristo-
cratic party gave us the “heah” and “thean
affected by so many Australians who wish to
be refaned. It was only the flunkeys who
spoke that way.
A HUNDRED MILLION BOTTLES.
“Stocktaking in France has revealed that there
are more than 100,000,000 bottles of champagne
in stock and that the cellars contain sufficient. to
fill another 48,000,000 bottles.”
A hundred million bottles of fizz!
Did I hear you murmur a soft “Gee whiz”?
And don’t forget there’s enough in store
For close upon fifty million more.
What radiant visions, what pleasant dreams
It gives you of Epernay and Rhcims,
Of the vine-clad slopes and the dales and dells
Once raked and riven by German shells,
And the cellars cool where the tally’s riz
To a hundred million bottles of fizz!
There are Perrier Jouet and Veuve Clicquot,
No matter what Governments come and go;
No matter what Premiers go and come,
There are Heidsieck, Moet and G. H. Mumm,
And a dozen others perhaps as good
That stand as firmly as Verdun stood.
And 1 shouldn’t wonder if all the stack
Were fully up to the pre-war tack,
Which is more (worse luck!) than our
stingo is.
A hundred million bottles of fizz!
Has France, bled white in the war’s grim strain,
Recovered her peace-time punch again?
Do her wheels move on without jolt or skid
As swift and smooth as of old they did?
Will she pay a bit off the bill she owes
To her good friend Angleterre? Who knows?
Yet the vaults of her banks are stuffed with
gold,
And think of the gold-top her wine-vaults hold.
What a tale they bubble of mounting biz,
A hundred million bottles of fizz!
Well, a votre sante, my
bold mounseer,
And the best of luck with
your liquid cheer!
Now he’s off the waggon,
the thirsty Yank
Will doubtless help you
sustain the franc.
Though Hitler rumble be-
yond the Rhine
By the Marne there’s ever
an anodyne.
And it’s good to learn that
upon the shelf
Jacques keeps a trifle to
drink himself,
A small indulgence that’s
fairly his
With a hundred million
bottles of fizz!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jas.”: I can never understand the
peculiar twist which makes the residents
of a town with a commonplace name
ashamed of it. The suggestion to change
Streaky Bay (S.A.) to Flinders is a case
in point. No one visiting the small port
on a clear, calm day could fail to remark
the aptness of the name Matthew
Flinders bestowed on it—the long streaks
on the still surface of the wide bay tell
their own tale. Wherever possible
Flinders favored descriptive nomencla-
ture —Smoky Bay, Cape Catastrophe,
Memory Cove (to commemorate the
boat’s crew lost at Cape C.), Kangaroo
Island, Backstairs Passage and Mt. Lofty
are a few examples. If it is urged that
the change would keep green the memory
of the man who first charted the coast
of S.A., I suggest that Flinders Range,
Flinders Island, Flinders Naval Base,
Flinders Chase, Flinders-street, Flinders-
terrace, a Commonwealth electoral divi-
sion, several monuments and statues
and a pub at Streaky Bay are doing that
already.
* * * *
“El V.”: Indian princes have not con-
fined the habit of doling out their weight
in coin (B. 29/1 /’36) to jubilee and other
festive occasions. Once the practice nearly
cost England a war. Cornwallis was before
Seringapatam, with a Mahratta army in
the rear ready to help him scupper Tip-
poo Sahib. Everybody was
looking forward to the sortie
with glee when it was sud-
denly discovered that the
aide-de-camp of the Mahratta
leader had been dallying with
a lady of lowly parentage
who, in addition, was some-
body else’s wife. This ren-
dered him unclean, and not
the philanderer only but
everybody who had sat at
table with him, including his
general. That pious man
flatly refused to go into
battle in such a condition,
and, retiring with all his
forces to the junction of the
Cauvery and Boomti rivers,
and having awaited the full
moon, he had his weight in
silver cast into the waters as
a cleansing sacrifice.
* * *
“N. 0.”: Touching burials
in the Abbey (B. 29/1/’36),
the remains of some people
rest there who could hardly
be described as famous. One
Jack Broughton, often
claimed as the founder of
the British school of boxing,
and his wife are both buried
in the West Cloister. This
same Broughton was the
model whom Rysbrack used
for the figure of Hercules in
the Abbey monument to Sir Peter
Warren, so it may be said that his statue
is there, too. On the boxer’s gravestone
a space was left which was intended to
be filled with the words “Champion of
England”—he died in 1789. But the
Dean objected, and so the space remains.
* * * *
"Tooley St.”: A British freighter got a
radio message from Pitcairn asking it
to call for urgent mail. The skipper
good-naturedly altered his course, but
when boarded by the islanders found
they were more intent on bartering pro-
duce for old clothes than on getting their
mail away. Growing impatient, the Old
Man demanded the mail. One of the
islanders produced two letters ; and the
“I’m awfully sorry. Wrong room!"
“ What's Wrong with the room?”
exchange of second-hand clobber for
fresh cabbages came to an abrupt end.
j|e * *
“Exdig”: Few Diggers seem to have
set much store by the souvenirs they
picked up, sometimes at the risk of their
lives. Occasionally a police report men-
tions a revolver brought from the
other side, and bullets are still sen-
timentally preserved by the men who
were wounded by them, but these are
exceptions. Some Diggers went to great
pains to smuggle back their “tin-hats” ;
the other day I noticed one of these
doing duty on a cottage verandah as a
hanging pot for a fern. When a Fritz
’plane was brought down on Branden-
“ Righto , then , missus—Til wash an polish y' in the mornin '.”
molen, the boys were on it so quickly
for mementoes that it was practically
torn to pieces. Probably not one eagerly-
snapped-up fragment of that ’plane could
be found to-day.
* * * *
“Say 99”: In Australia, as elsewhere,
the husband who flatly denies the
paternity of his child is no new pheno-
menon, but it has been left to a Copen-
hagen Court to supply the latest ruling
on the subject. The husband had blue
eyes ; so had his wife, but in due course
she presented her startled spouse with a
brown-eyed baby. The reputed father
brooded over the thing for 13 years, and
then asked the Courts to return all
moneys paid as maintenance. But biologi-
cal experts, called to give evidence, said
that a brown-eyed baby might occur as
the fruit of the mutual affection of one
per cent, of blue-eyed couples. Case dis-
missed ; payments to continue. The ex-
perts’ opinion may be sound, likely
enough ; but my textbooks, reasonably
modern, state that, while brown-eyed
parents may and do produce blue-eyed
children, a reverse case is bound to cause
sniffing among the neighbors. The pranks
played during the division of a fertilised
egg, human or other, are strange beyond
belief. The study of them involves the
consideration of such matters as eye-
coloration, the tint of the skin, albinism,
an over-supply of big toes and even the
Hapsburg lip.
* * * *
“Findy”: In a Melbourne police court
case last month it was stated that a torn
half of a £1 Commonwealth note is legal
tender for 10s. If this is so, I don’t see
why recognition should stop there. A
quarter of a note should be worth 55., a
tenth two bob and so on. It is interest-
ing to speculate on the arguments that
would arise over the exact size (say) of
the piece to be torn off the corner of a
greenback in giving change for a pair
of shoes at 19s. lid.
“Red Cap”: Congratulations to the
Light Horseman who ran in three
Bedouins to make up his complement
of Turkish soldiers (B. 29 /1 / ’36), but
how did he get over the uniform and
rifle difficulty? Jacko wore khaki of a
sort, and carried his own rifle on the way
to the cage —minus the bolt, of course.
The Bedouins would be in their usual
garb of dirty nightgowns, and would not
fit into the dressing scheme at all.
“S.T.S.”: Just found this item in a
book of Mark Twain’s, written in 1897:
If this is true, it must be what they call
in Australia “a record.”
He had just been here, and must have
heard the phrase for the first time. But
did we really invent it, or even shorten
“best on record” into it?
* * * *
“Exdig”: There are 193 A.I.F. soldiers
who are still listed as “missing” in
Defence records, no satisfactory explana-
tion about their end having ever been
gathered. The clearing-up of the battle-
field areas, with the men of the Graves
Commission helping, caused
hundreds of names to be
transferred from “missing”
to “killed in action” ; the 193
are the residue. Still, other
things beside death may have
happened to some of them.
I recall one man who saw a
hop-over through and dis-
appeared just before our relief
arrived. Scheduled as “miss-
ing,” he reappeared in the
batt. with a cheerful grin a
few months later. His expla-
nation that he had been taken
prisoner after wandering out
of the trench, and had man-
aged to give his captors the
slip and to make his way
back after many vicissitudes,
was officially accepted ; but
his private account told of a
successful trip to Paris and
a hectic time before he weak-
ened on his original resolve
to keep out of the war for
good. With great subtlety he appeared
among the Tommies on the sector we
had relinquished, and was passed on to
us; this helped to bear out his official
story. On his private one he could easily
have remained among the “missing.”
£t 8£ # *
“K.G.”: The revival of the Gilsullivan
opera “Ruddigore” in Sydney has evoked
some reminiscences about its quaint title.
The play, of' course, was originally
labelled “Ruddy Gore,” but there was
something in these words that grated on
refined susceptibilities of London in the
decorous ’eighties, so it was altered. But
nobody has recalled a cynical remark
attributed to W. S. Gilbert when “Ruddy
Gore” was softened to “Ruddigore.”
“And if they don’t like that,” he sug-
gested, “we can easily make it ‘Kensing-
ton Gore.’” The old English word
“gore,” common enough still in the
U.S.A., means a small triangular bit of
land which juts out from one county or
parish into another, and carries no sinister
associations of blood with it.
sjt *S * *
“Tickets, Please”: Tramway regula-
tions (B. 29/1/’36) lay it down that
“employees and constables travelling
free must not occupy seats required for
paying passengers” ; and occasionally an
unpopular inspector has been dethroned
by a zealous conductor. As an examiner
I ve often yearned for the power to order
the pompous politician to give way to
the paying client.
“E.J.8.”: Marie Tempest’s memories
are being published simultaneously in the
“Courier-Mail” and the “Argus.” A
sample:
Calve lay on the sofa in her dressing-
room and refused flatly to go on. Despite
secretaries and dressers, John [Cort]
walked into her dressing-room, turned up
her frock and gave her a severe spanking.
She jumped up, threw her arms round
his neck, kissed him and said “What a
man! 1 love you, Cort,” walked on the
stage and sang like an angel.
But the full text appeared in the Bris-
bane paper only ; the “Argus,” with a
fine eye to the proprieties, cut out the
four words after “dressing-room.”
* * * *
“General Prac.” takes a back glance:
A quick tally shows that about 54 kings and
four queens have sat on the throne of Eng-
land since the days of Egbert, 1134 years
ago: an innings per monarch of a little under
20 years. The coroner’s findings run some-
thing like this, taking a few of the more inter-
esting cases: Deaths in battle, Harold,
Richard I. and Richard III.; deaths following
fall from horse, William the Conqueror and
William 111. (also suffering from malaria and
pulmonary tuberculosis); assassinated, mur-
dered secretly or otherwise abolished, Edward,
son of Edgar, William Rufus, Edward 11.,
Richard II.; publicly beheaded, Charles I.
Presumably, most of the other rulers of Eng-
land including the Saxon and Danish kings,
died’ from “natural causes.” James I. must
have possessed the largest list of these. He
had rickets, and did not walk untl he reached
the age of six; he also had enlarged tonsils,
adenoids and nasal catarrh. His decayed teeth
made him a martyr to indigestion. He was
stiff with rheumatism, and came frequent
croppers from his horse. Finally he died
(as did Cromwell) from malaria. Probably,
of all monarchs, Edward VII. had the greatest
share of luck; he nearly succumbed to typhoid
before he was 30, dodged the falling mast of
Sir Thomas Lipton’s yacht by a hair, miracu-
lously escaped an Italian lunatic who took four
pot-shots at him on the Brussels railway station,
and almost went under to appendicitis on the
very eve of his coronation. After all this, he
lived to be 69.
THE PARSON AND THE LION.
“\mong the applicants for a two-year-old lion
offered for sale by the Taronga Park Trust was a
well-known city clergyman, who undertook to give
the animal a good home.”
They run in all kinds, as they deal in all creeds,
The men who attend to our spiritual needs.
Their fancies and tastes in the animal line
Are as widely divergent as yours (say) and
mine.
Some keep an Alsatian, and others such freaks
In the canine creation as Poms and as Pekes.
But in all my experience I never have met
A parson who yearned for a lion as a pet.
I’ve known them cage parrots of various hues,
And cherish canaries, and feed cockatoos,
And whistle to magpies and avadavats,
And offer asylum to wandering cats.
There’s one has a monkey, I’ve frequently
heard,
Another a possum, a tortoise a third,
But quite a new line on the calling you get
In a parson who’s wanting a lion for a pet.
Some love a good neddy—or did, anyhow—
While others grow warmly attached to a cow,
But I own that 1 find it exceedingly hard
To picture a priest with a lion in his yard.
Such a beast, with his roar and his jaws all
a-froth,
You’d hardly imagine would click with the
cloth;
And one fears that the flock would be likely
to fret
At a padre who kennelled a lion as a pet.
Is his aim to portray, to the best of his power,
How Satan may look when he’s out to devour?
A far-fetched and outre suggestion, perhaps,
But one never can tell, with these clerical chaps.
Is it some rugged curate, intent on a date
With a wrestling opponent who’s up to his
weight?
Here’s luck, anyhow, to the parson who’s set
On having the monarch of beasts for a pet!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


C *AV
km
A'
20/„rlf6
10/or 9 a
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
. ..vX;'
mm
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE
D F
THIS
GENERATI
POLITICAL POINTS
Canberra and Hobart can now indulge
in telephone talks. State Premier Ogilvie
and Commonwealth Treasurer Casey had
the inaugural chat. Ogilvie mentioned
afterwards that he had heard Casey per-
fectly, but at times Casey could not hear
him. That must have been when he was
breaking the news about the special grant
he is demanding—£7s3,Boo.
Westralian Premier Collier, who has
represented Boulder since 1905, has been
returned unopposed. So have two of his
Ministers, Munsie (Hannans) and Troy
(Magnet), seven other Labor members
and five Oppositionists. In effect, Labor
has a lead of five, and only 35 seats to
be contested.
When State Labor wins in Westralia,
there is nearly always a reaction against
Labor at the next Federal election ; and
the same applies to the Nat.-Cockies.
Curtin will have a better chance in Fre-
mantle if the Collier Government goes
down than if it goes back. Knowledge
of the way the pendulum swings must
divide the sympathies of Westralian
Federal members on both sides, but with
a supreme effort they contrive to remain
loyal.
Australians who have read the “News-
Chronicle” in its native Cockaigne think
little of it, and Englishmen evidently
think less of its politics, which are
Liberal.” Nevertheless, a large propor-
tion of the one-eyed foreign politics
served up as cable news in our Great
Dailies is “News-Chronicle” stuff, and
the somewhat - exploded Manchester
Guardian,” also “Liberal,” is drawn on
for much of the balance. Where foreign
dictators are concerned (Stalin always
excepted) the wildest rumor is not too
wild for the “Cronk-News” to print, so
long as it is provocative.
Mossy Hynes, Forgan Smith’s Min-
ister for Industry, has returned from
Maoriland charmed to find there a
Utopia in which the Government is not
“hamstrung with a Loan Council, with
six vState Governments and a Federal
Government, like we are.” But ham-
stringing is no disability to a borrowing
Government—you don’t sign lOU bills
with your feet.
The Loan Council was created to con-
trol and restrict Australian borrowing.
It has succeeded in the first objective,
but failed lamentably in the second. The
Australian national debt is now one-
fourth of the way to the second thousand
million pounds. Though the sinking
fund is paying it off at the rate of about
£9,000,000 a year, the politicians are
borrowing between £25,000,000 and
£30,000,000.
Bussau, the Vic. Transport Minister,
must have learned something from his
“study of transport conditions” in N. S.
Wales and Queensland, brief though it
was; anyway, the “hauliers” who carry
goods from Melbourne to the Riverina
have been notified that sentence of death
on their licenses to trade has been sus-
pended for six months. At the end of
the six months, if the Government can
hang out that long, the general election
will be that much nearer and the sen-
tence can be suspended again.
For the present, at any rate, the
Defence Department has won its
wrangle with the Post Office over the
British air-mail proposal. Bull’s idea
is to establish a flying-boat service
from London to Sydney, twice a
week each way; time, seven days;
letter charge, l|d. (it is now Is.
6d.); additional cost to Australia,
£140,000 a year. Dirt cheap for the
advantages offered; but the Defence
Department contends (1) that land
'planes are better feeders for our internal
air services, (2) that such as fly over the
North constitute the nucleus of an* emer-
gency Defence squadron, and (3) that
to give up control of the Singapore-
British section would mean sacrificing
the experience being gained in ground
organising and servicing. All this is
rather nebulous ; but the public has not
been taken fully into the confidence of
either party to the dispute that has been
raging behind Cabinet doors.
One of the great needs of the time is
consultation, if not co-operation, be-
tween the Australian and Maoriland
Governments on all matters affecting
both countries, air services in particular.
Canberra should have asked Wellington’s
opinion of the British offer to carry
mails and passengers from London to
Sydney—and vice versa —in flying-boats.
Whatever may be thought of the flying-
boat notion, a trans-Tasman service
linking up with the Anglo-Australian air-
mail is necessary to both countries.
"In an endeavor to secure the support of the younger people, the Lang Labor party is
organising social functions and sporting competitions. A golf club has been formed.”
“Why doesn’t he get someone to hit it for him?”
“Hush! This is golf, not politics.”
Reviewing State Budgets for the Bris-
bane “Courier-Mail,” F. W. Eggleston
reserves his praise for S.A.:
Its Government has steadfastly refused
to borrow for unemployment expenditure.
The Victorian Goverpment, on the other
hand, is clamoring for loans, though it
benefits from loan expenditure in other
States. N.S.W., Queensland and W.A. are
still borrowing all they can.
As chairman of the Commonwealth
Grants Commission, Mr. Eggleston
secured an increase of £200,000 in the
annual payment of hush-money (making
it £800,000) to the Westralian Govern-
ment which is borrowing all it can.
Bushell, the tea merchant, who has
been abroad for three years, returns with
the information that Russia has aban-
doned communism for State capitalism,
which will be a “huge success”; that
internationalism was chased out with
Trotsky, and that piecework is universal.
He thinks we should “try to effect
a barter agreement with Russia for wool.”
Since Australia can sell every pound of
wool it raises, it has no need to barter
it for cheap-labor produce which might
seriously affect less stable industries;
still, the proposal will be considered if
Mr. Bushell insists. Does Russia grow
tea?
Preposterous as it seems, Opposition-
ists are raising the secession cry again
in Westralia. It is nothing to them that
the Commons refused to receive the
secesh petition on the ground that its
power to interfere with the Common-
wealth Constitution Act, except in cases
where alterations are solicited by a
majority of the people of the Common-
wealth, has virtually ceased to exist. In
a sense it is a pity these provincialists
cannot have separation for a twelve-
month. Cessation of the flow of Com-
monwealth money would force swinge-
ing local taxation on them, and before
the end of the twelvemonth the victims
will be clamoring for reunion.
Visiting Newcastle to give his bless-
ing to a technical college advisory
council which is not to have rating
powers, Premier Stevens descanted on the
progress made in and about Newcastle
under his Administration.
Since June 9, 1932, there has been a
60 p.c. reduction in local unemployment.
There were then 6000 men employed in
the steelworks and allied industries ; now
there are 11,000. The weekly wages bill
has gone from £32,000 to £60,000.
A very impressive record ; and now per-
haps the U.A.P. will pluck up courage
enough to decide to run a candidate for
Newcastle some time. At the Federal
by-election and the State general elec-
tions it left the field to Labor fac-
tionists.
In spite of bankruptcy proceedings, T.
J. Hughes is continuing his interesting
fight against the Westralian Labor Gov-
ernment —he is out against Kenneally, the
“full-time” Minister for Employment and
Labor-unity Conferences, in East Perth.
A returned-soldier brother, F. J. Hughes,
has also nominated, and the Trades Hall
doesn’t quite know what to make of it,
while remaining of the opinion that T.L,
is a nark. T.J. is no stranger to the
electorate ; he was its Labor member for
some years after the Trades Hall picked
a quarrel with the brainy J. J. Simons.
The performances of Queensland’s
Transport Strangulation Board are
arousing State-wide opposition. Cham-
bers of Commerce from Southport to
Mackay have combined with the
R.A.C.Q. and the Commercial Motor-
users’ Association to approach the
Government for a return to the former
scale of registration fees. Meanwhile,
there has been a significant pause in the
campaign against road transport, which
began immediately after Parliament rose
in December.
Tully Falls will provide th? next big
hydro-electric scheme for N.Q. Gain-
ings over 15 years have shown a
minimum power-source of 17,500 h.p.
and a maximum of 136,000 h.p. without
storage. The available head from the
top of the falls to the proposed power-
house site is 1400 ft.; and for storage-dam
purposes there is a porphyry bar a few
chains above the falls. Initial capital
cost is estimated at £300,000 ; return, on
a 50-mile supply radius, at £30,000 p.a.
Townsville, with an estimated addition
to revenue of £45,000 p.a., is within
practicable transmission distance. With
the existing Barron Falls scheme, this
development would revolutionise condi-
tions in Queensland’s richest agricultural
areas.
Rebuffed by the coalminers when he
asked them to plunge into a suicide strike
“to help the seamen,” and again when
he suggested a general stoppage to the
A.C.T.U., Orr, secretary of the Miners
Federation, still affects to believe that “the
miners are thoroughly behind the
strikers.” If Orr doesn’t look out the
miners will get behind him and his
Militant Minority pals with big boots on.
Notwithstanding the change of gov-
ernment in France, it is still fondly be-
lieved that the French will spring to the
rescue, along with the Turks, the Greeks
and the Croats, if Italy bogs into Britain.
The fond belief is not confirmed by a
writer in the “Financial News,” who re-
ported to his paper from Paris that,
although the Government (i.e., Laval’s)
“nominally supported the British,” the
French are pro-Italian, and “mock at the
idea of sanctions being effectively
applied.”
Stewart, M.H.R., who is still called
Director of Employment, or something
like that, has been making the Govern-
ment uncomfortable by campaigning
briskly for a 40-hour week. It was neces-
sary to stop him, and, needless to say,
the stopping is to be done by “appoint-
ing a conference”—Chief Judge Deth-
ridge, four employers, four Labor men,
an economist, a doctor, a woman, two
Canberra civil servants, the Dalai Lama
and the Ahkoond of Swat. No ; those
potentates are not to be invited to serve,
but they would be as useful as others in
stringing the thing on.
Commonwealth quarterly statistics re-
veal that there are 13,245 people in
Australia with incomes of more than
£lOOO p.a., 36,000 with more than £5OO
p.a. and 80,000 with more than £2OO
p.a. The remainder of the earners and
rentiers luxuriate in the luxury of less
than £4 a week.
From Molongloside:
Canberra is earning a place of its own on
the world’s joke-map in matters of official
courtesy and diplomatic procedure. As if that
reception to the Duke of Gloucester, at which
the Consular representatives of European
Powers were preceded or displaced by depart-
mental clerks and the Chief Justice of Aus-
tralia was ignored, wasn’t sufficient, the city by
the Molonglo has achieved eternal fame as the
only Empire capital in which the accession of
Edward VIII. was not announced, in the ortho-
dox fashion, by proclamation from the official
headquarters of the Government. Even if no
Minister could be dragged to the place in
recess, it would have been a great opportunity
for one of the more uplifted clerks to announce
officially that a new reign had begun. As it is,
someone seems to need a proper wigging for
making Australia look ridiculous.


U'l //' (J
Your table manners are 4
Whv domt you copy Jacko ? vV
it
W HEM EVER t SCoLd HER
Sue HIDES HER hs/ad''
// / . w
DON'T FORGET TO PUT uumbo out, dear .
" GOLDFISH domt to me .
1 LIKE SOMETHING* BI^E-R.”
// , , *
Hes simply aoorajbLe .
f/ Hes almost humao4 . Unoerstahos
EVERY THING* \ SAY. vV
// r
That EXAMINED HIPPOS BEEM OH
MY BED <AG,AJH !' v
WHY STOP AT LIONS?
“Sydney Zoo has a lion for sale. Many applications have been received from suburban residents who want it for a pet.”


U 1
Ln
i_n
W’T.
m
w
Y ot
dsf
PERSONAL ITEMS
M. P. Durack has been on one of his
infrequent visits to Sydney from the West.
He is one of the most changeless of Aus-
tralians and, like all Duracks, a fine
advertisement for the North Westralian
climate. A drover once summed them up
as “all ironbarks or Monkiras”—Monkira
cattle being famous for their size and en-
durance. The endurance is certainly there,
“DURACK of the North-west.”
for since they were born on the
Cooper and grazed over to N. West-
ralia the family has fought politicians,
flies, mosquitoes, sandflies, floods, low
prices, droughts and a few other enemies,
and put enough names on the map to
make a country. Duracks have an im-
mense faith in the Australian future and
possess the saving gift of humor. Wit-
ness All-About —, by M.P.’s two daugh-
ters, published by The Bulletin and
hailed as a classic by “S. M. Herald.”
W. H. Shiers, now chief engineer of
Airlines of Australia, has just received
his Afghan Frontier medal, won in 1919,
when he, with J. M. Bennett, under Cap-
tain Ross Smith, was drafted to the
Indian frontier. It was while they were
on this duty that the offer of a £lO,OOO
prize for an England-Australia flight
attracted them.
The new acting-manager of the head
office of the Q.N. Bank in Brisbane,
G. F. Darvall, is a descendant of the
first Solicitor-General of N.S.W. under
responsible government, and, further
back, of an adventurous Governor of St.
Anne’s, in Sumatra, in the John Com-
pany days. The Australian branch of
the family has a financial bent. G.F.’s
grandfather was first Queensland
Auditor-General, his father Curator of
Intestate Estates, and his cousin is g.m.
of the Commercial of Sydney.
Maryborough (Q.) has lost a citizen
who was once known to every schoolboy
in his State —Hugh Morton, a member of
a leading legal firm which his father had
founded, dead at 54. He won a State-
school scholarship to Maryborough
Grammar School at 12. Thence, by his
own efforts, he rose to be an M.A. of
Melbourne, and in intervals of study made
himself a first-class cricketer. Only when
Roger Hartigan, many years ago, was
scoring heavily in a Test in Adelaide
was there more excitement among Bris-
bane youth than when Morton made
135 against Victoria —a score by a
Queenslander in inter-State cricket which
stood for many years as a record.
“Yarrabee”: Christian Brother John
Coughlan, new principal of St. Pat.’s,
Strathfield (N.S.W.), has just completed six
years as chief of the Wagga College, where
his monument is the new £lO,OOO college.
Previously sportsmaster at Rostrevor, he
trained many S.A. sportsmen, including
the footballers Margitich and Jaffer, and
Tobin, at present playing cricket in Eng-
land. While on St. Virgil’s (Tas.) staff,
he helped to fill the “Mercury” sporting
columns. The family name is well
known in the Royal Show Shorthorn
cattle rings, where their Quatta’s Duke
of Derrimut 35th and his offspring
have won many championships.
Albert Gould, who celebrates his
eighty-ninth birthday on February 12, is
not the oldest Federal politician—that
honor belongs to ex-Senator Tom
Glassey, who is three years older. But
his Parliamentary initiation dates back
further than that of anybody else except
Bruce Smith, who was elected to the
N. S. Wales Parliament in the same year
—lBB2. Gould was educated under
Doctor Woolls, the first headmaster of
The King’s School, Parramatta, and first
became a Minister 47 years ago. Unlike
his colleagues, who have long ago retired
from public and business life, he has kept
up most of his directorships to the present
day, and still takes a keen interest in the
affairs of the Sydney diocese of the
Anglican Church, of which he was
chancellor until recently.
C. F. Warren, pictured here by Horner,
was educated at Christ’s Hospital—the
Blue Coat School. He served in the war.
and finished as a
major in the Royal
Army Ordnance
Corps. In 1926 he
visited India and
Burma to arrange
the extension of
operations for the
huge Prudential
Assurance Co.,
which in some
crises carried the
burden of financ-
ing British orders
in U.S.A. during
the war; in 1929
he advised the ex-
tension of the co.’s
life assurance sec-
tion to Australasia,
returning in 1931
as g.m. in the Anti-
podes. He is a fine
athlete and as good
an organist.
“X.T.”: Owen
Seaman, just dead,
was the first
“Punch” editor to
be made a baronet.
Captain of Shrews-
bury School and of
the boats at Clare
College, Cam-
bridge, where he
tOGk a first in
classics and was Porson prizeman, he be-
came professor of literature at Durham
College of Science, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
went to the Bar, joined “Punch” at the age
of 31, for years wrote light verse on classi-
cal models almost exclusively and, on the
strength of it, became editor. A light-
Prudential’s general manager.
verse writer who is a baronet, a golfer
and belongs to both the Athenaeum and
Leander must be nearly unique.
J. J. Hardie, whose “Bridle Track” will
be printed as a serial in The Bulletin,
has had an adventurous career. He
was born in Troon where the Glas-
gow millionaires live—in 1894, and, com-
ing to Australia 25 years ago, he rode
over most of north-west Queensland and
the N.T. with cattle. In 1914 it was two
months before he heard that war had
broken out; then he and a mate rode
200 miles to enlist, only to be turned
down. He had better luck in Canada.
After the Great War he served on the
N.-W. Frontier of India with Skinner’s
Horse. His Cattle Camp won third prize
in The Bulletin’s 1929 novel competi-
tion. He is a woolclasser.
“Smashie”: A cousin of G. 8.5., C. M.
Shaw, is retiring from the Metropolitan
Golf Club, Melbourne, after having man-
aged the club’s affairs for more than 13
years. Metropolitan’s first manager, he
began his association with golf in 1898,
when he founded the Goulburn Golf
Club, acting as president, secretary and
treasurer. He subsequently became hon.
sec. of Albury Golf Club. Shaw super-
vised the Melbourne centenary cham-
pionships very successfully. Much of
the credit for the wonderful development
of Metropolitan goes to this veteran —a
banker by training, and one of the best
of good fellows.
The New England will never again see
the busy Napoleonic form of Alf
Purkiss, once the centre of every move-
ment in Armidale, where he was born,
and where for 10 years he owned the
Armidale “Chronicle.” He was Mayor
of Armidale twice, and either president,
committeeman or secretary of every
public body in the town. After selling
his New England interests he went to
Brisbane and took over a printery, from
which he issued a sporting paper. A few
days ago he was caught in his burning
house and died, at 57.
The Earl of Strafford, now in Aus-
tralia, is descended only on the female
side from Thomas Wentworth, first
earl, whose title
fell into the basket
with his head on
Tower Hill in 1641.
Through that blood
channel he has dis-
tant relationships
with the Australian
Wentworths. The
title was revived in
1835 for the Penin-
sula and Waterloo
field-marshal, John
Byng, who was
descended from
Lord Torrington, a
doughty admiral of
George I.’s day.
All history since
the original Tor-
rington’s time has
been crowded with
Byngs from the
admiral who was
shot and “Poodle”
Byng, that engag-
ing character in
Greville’s Memoirs,
to Lord Byng of
Vimy, whom many
Australians knew.
The present Earl
of Strafford is an
engineer. The
Byng family holds
one record two
out of the three family peers have
marriage connections with Australia. Lord
Byng married a Moreton of Lord Ducie’s
family—the present Earl of Ducie is a
Queenslander. And the Strafford heir
espoused a Tasmanian girl, Agnes Smith
Travers, of Hobart.
William George Toop Goodman—
somebody once said that his third name
sounded as if his grandfather had been
a railway engine-was born in Kent. He
became city electrical engineer at
Knight W.G.T. GOODMAN,
of Adelaide.
Dunedin (M.L.), but since 1907 has been
g.m. of the Adelaide Tramways. In S.A.
he is regarded rather as an institution
than a personality. Since 1913 he has
been a member of the Adelaide Univer-
sity Council. His figure, upright and
slim enough to belie his 64 years, he
owes to his love of walking, which, apart
from work and music, is his only hobby.
Allan Fisher, last term appointed Pro-
fessor of Economics at the W.A. Univer-
sity, is a bright-looking, boyish Maori-
lander, with unbounded faith in the
brotherhood of man beaming in his eyes.
For 11 years he held the Economics
Professorship at Otago University. A
few years ago he visited Moscow and
wrote a book about it showing such a
friendly interest in the Russian experi-
ment that crusted M.L. Tories expected
him to be sent for instanter to become
a Moscow udarnik. Instead, A. C.
Davidson gave him a temporary job as
economist in the ’Wales.
Hugh Ruttledge, who is making his
second attempt to climb Mt. Everest —the
R.G.S. gave him its Founder’s Medal for
the last attempt—is the last person who
would be credited on sight with being
so adventurous. He is 52, and his training
was all in the I.C.S. as a magistrate and
commissioner. He retired in 1929, and
lives on the little island of Gometra
across the Ulva Strait from Mull—just
a few hundred yards from where Lachlan
Macquarie, N. S. Wales Governor, was
born, and on soil from which a host of
Scottish Blacks who have helped to build
Australia’s commerce were fathered.
Allan Maughan, who becomes Federal
president of the Australian Association
of British Manufacturers, ironically got
a good deal of his technical education in
U.S.A.—after Sydney Grammar and Syd-
ney University he was at Cornell, and
then served for several years with General
Electric and other companies. After his
return to Australia, he became managing
director of the A.G.E., but left to join
the Liverpool Cable Co. His lean, alert,
youthful figure has been well known to
everybody in the Australian electrical
trade for 25 years. He is a brother of
Maughan, K.C., who is the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment’s leading constitutional counsel.


/<
Vwho wouldn't
w
accept the
verdict of
this jury ?
Mj&gjjjj (oaMQjaataoopowi s
liig M ■
.>“:>>>-;.>>r'';;
■
dsf
■m
'
■mmmmmm
m
7 <%,
/ ®wim
K
m
mi
.v;
■ :
■
:
. m
■
m
■
■
m
Hi
m
m
| '
»
II
H
r
■Sfi
mm
v/ : : y 'yy.
i
mm: .
m
M
ngU
V-.
wmm
—a jury which, composed of discerning people
whose good fortune it is to enjoy the best things
of life, finds "Ardath De-Luxe" to be •
Definitely Superior
ARDATH
Smart Flat Tins:
10, 9d.; 20, 1/6.
Also Flat 50*s, Tins of 100
and Round Airtight 50’s.
100 per centk Pure
Virginia Tobacco.
■■ill
illil
Itiifc
ik
m
■Mg
“Soothing to Your Nerves Kind to Your Throat
6788-2-6. **


#
CORDIALS
"Curvilinear” Ore Concentrator
Ml
THE MOST EFFICIENT Con-
centrator on the market, and
suitable for all classes of ores.
The unique action of this table
separates the minerals according
to their specific gravity, and so
enables even an unskilled
operator to get the highest
recovery possible. Other advan-
tages are its simplicity, small
floor space and light weight for
transportation. Owing to the
absence of intricate moving parts, annoying and expensive breakdowns are eliminated
and maintenance costs reduced to a minimum.
Send for our Bulletin which fully describes the table; demonstrations given by
appointment.
Used throughout the Commonwealth and exported in large numbers to South Africa
and the East.
Capacity up to H tons per hour. Our 2ft. dia. cone classifier should be a part of
every mine equipment where concentrators are used.
Send us your inquiries for all Mining Equipment, Explosives and Accessories.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Mining Engineers,
10 Parramatta Road, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sheet
metal
‘‘stamping
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
, O 7(B
SYDNEY
t~ Son Ltd.
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane. '
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
Nominal
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926. . 43,699 17J p.c. = 52,500 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 „ „ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 „ „ 45,000 16,921
1929.. 62,338 15 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34,259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ „ 30,000 25,003 59,262
1931.. 799 Nil 799 60,061
1932.. 718 Nil 718 60,779
Loss.
1933.. 38,617 Nil 22,162
June.
1934 f. 18,367 Nil 3,795
Profit.
1935.. 4,215 Nil 4,215 8,010
*l3 months. fl 4 months.
Headquarters are in Melbourne, where
the co. was floated 14 years ago, and
where most of the £300,000 of capital
Was subscribed. The plantations, mill
and refinery are all in Kenya, East
Africa ; and some juicy returns were won
while the co. had practically a monopoly
of the local market. Then, as usually
happens in such circumstances, there was
a rush to get into the business, and the
co. now shares a heavily oversupplied
local market with half a dozen other
manufacturers. Owing to price-cutting,
unprofitable exports and a plague of
locusts, now out of the way, the aggre-
gate net result of the last five years’
operations has been a loss of £51,252.
Shareholders have gone without since
1930, and it is difficult to say when, and
to what extent, they are likely to come
into the picture again.
During the last term the co. crushed
an extra 9458 tons of cane, making
80,451 tons in all, for a sugar yield of
6111 tons, up 1054 tons:
1925. 1931. 1934. f 1935.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown . . 14,774 50,389 49,293 50,761
Cane purchased . . 5,299 49,042 21,700 29,690
Sugar (white) pro-
duced . . . . 1,385 7,457 5,057 6,111
fl 4 months.
The all-in cost of production was £4 6s.
per ton lower, owing partly to more
favorable natural conditions, including
a bigger tonnage of soft cane, and partly
to savings following an overhaul of the
organisation. So, despite a drop of 30s.
per ton in the average price realised for
whites, the net result was a profit of
£4215 (1.3 p.c. on capital) as against a
loss of £18,367 for the preceding 14
months. That was after setting aside
£10,983 (down £901) for depreciation, and
reducing the development account (now
£52,200) by £1027 net.
The financial position improved:
1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . . . 58,863 8,691 3,183
Mill 132,891 117,263 112,791
Land, buildings, etc. .. 63,758 60,333 59,401
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc 84,084 64,182 56,636
Plantation development 47,388 53,277 52,200
Sugar stocks . . . . 02,760 800 505
Book debts . . . . 19,782 15,991 13,529
Cash, etc 8,259 619 18,085
The year’s profit, allowance for depre-
ciation, etc., and a reduction of £2462
in debtors’ balances enabled £5508 to
be snipped off the small outside debt, and
cash, etc., to be strengthened by £17,466.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£28,936) was £20,217. The
co. has thus strengthened its position so
far as a trade war is concerned.
The outlook is obscure. Since the
close of accounts, efforts at co-operative
marketing through the Sugar Distribu-
tors’ organisation have been abandoned,
and there has been further price-cutting
in the local market, which absorbed
about half the co.’s output last year. On
the other hand, January’s export ship-
ments fetched 17s. 6d. per ton more than
the season’s first consignments. The co.’s
production of sugar for the current
season is expected to reach 10,000 tons,
while the output in Uganda continues to
increase, and there is talk of yet another
mill being erected, this time in Tangan-
yika.
The market expresses its opinion of the
risks by pricing the fully-paid pound
shares at 9s. The return at this figure
would be 4.4 p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
JNov., I rofit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 26,751 4 p.e. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926. . 13,488 Nil 41 352
Profit.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
1928.. 34,158 5 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil 55,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
Trade-marks disclosed, £lOOO .. 49,651
Profit.
1932.. 18,409 2} p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 24 „ „ 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 24 ~ „ 12,281 757 52,037
1935.. 11,057 24 „ „ 12,281 50,183
The old Q.M.E., led by Robert Philp
and other men of vision, had gone
into the pastoral business and done fairly
well. There was a reconstruction in 1915,
when the old co., whose capital and re-
serves totalled £369,862, was split into
two, with paid capitals aggregating
£873,306. The pastoral properties passed
to Australian Stock Breeders, and the
meatworks at Townsville and Brisbane
to the present co.
For the first five years shareholders
averaged 5.8 p.c. During the next 11
they received two divs., totalling 9 p.c. ;
and reserves were tapped for £BO,BOl to
pay them and extinguish trading losses.
That was because, after the war-time
meat contracts ran out, the Argentine
got a stranglehold on British and Con-
tinental markets with chilled baby beef,
while, locally, high prices, drought and
labor conditions bumped up costs. Still,
owing to allowances for depreciation,
etc., the co. managed to hold on to more
money than it could find employment
for in the business. Without hamstring-
ing itself, it was thus able to return ss.'
per share (= £163,744) early in the 1933
term, reducing paid capital to its present
figure (£491,232) in 15s. shares.
Low prices have stood in the way of a
lift in the div., which has been steady
at 2{ p.c. for the last four years. Dur-
ing the last term the net result (£11,057),
which benefited by an unspecified amount
previously reserved for contingencies and
lumped with sundry creditors in the
sheet, was £l9Bl lighter than the previ-
ous year’s, and £1224 less than the div.
called for. That was after setting aside
£10,834 (down £834) for contingencies.
The drop in net earnings was due to an
unspecified loss on shipments of chilled
beef.
What the future holds for the co.
largely depends upon how the chilling
section of the business turns out. Dur-
ing the last term selling arrangements in
London were reorganised, and £45,000
was spent on the Ross River (Towns-
ville) works, mainly in connection with
chilling. The net addition to the book
value of fixed assets was £74,160:
1923. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £654,976 £654,975 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors .. 119,806 17,610 75,047 190,827
Property, live-
in other cos. 425,798 423,532 324,931 399,091
Stock.. .. 85,557 35,243 78.819 141.332
Stores . . 45,865 20,180 15,399 19,69 S
Debtors & cash 270,688 244,282 211,449 185,033
Stocks and stores were up £66,812. To
meet the outlay, £115,780 net was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes something for contingen-
cies, and book debts and cash were drawn
upon for £26,416. The contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£155,236)
was £75,384.
At 7s. 9d. (7s. 2d. a year ago) the 155.-
paid shares return 4.8 p.c. on a 2\ p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 16s. 6d. in net
tangibles.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 10,577 10 p.e. = 5000 5,577 26,641
1927.. 10,580 10 „ „ 5000 5,580 32,221
1928.. 16,145 10 ~ „ 6000 10,145 42,366
1929.. 16,938 10 „ „ 6993 9,945 52,311
1930.. 6,578 9 „ „ 6300 278 52,589
Loss.
1931.. 3,937 4 p.e. = 2800 45,852
Profit.
1932.. 7,952 6 ~ „ 4200 3,752 49,604
1933.. 10,640 8 „ ~ 5600 5,040 54,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 ~ „ 6300 6,574 67,649
The table covers the decade since the co.
began to do business direct with the
public ; for 17 years before that it was
solely a reinsurance concern, sharing the
well-established Mercantile Mutual’s
risks. Slump interrupted a run of 10 p.c.
divs., but since the co. withdrew from
the troublesome London marine market
—results there were responsible for the
mishap in ’31 —the loss ratios have been
the best yet exhibited, and net earnings
have reflected these and other benefits.
During the last term an extra £lOBB of
net premiums was gathered at £579 less
cost:
Loss Exes,
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59.8 35.8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 35.0
1929.. 133,101 67,838 55,741 51 41.9
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*0.2 41.4
1931.. 85,822 60,504 36,450 70.5 42.4
1932.. 74,658 37,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1933.. 67,259 30,642 31,848 45.5 47.3
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1935.. 70,907 30,125 34,411 42.4 48.5
Though claims (up £1244) took 225. more
of each £lOO of net premiums, the under-
writing surplus was £423 better at £6371,
equal to 9.1 p.c. on capital. Investments
turned in £6503 (up £420), or 9.2 p.c. on
capital, making the net return from all
sources 18.3 p.c. on capital, compared
with 17.1, 13.3, 11.6, a loss, 9.3, 25.3 and
26.9 p.c. back to 1928. The div. was
lifted a point, making it 9 p.c., which
was more than covered by returns from
investments alone.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to 7s. at 17s. as against Bs. 9d. three
years ago. At the higher figure the return
is 3.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis, 4.1 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. distribution. The policy
appears to be to keep divs. close on the
heels of returns from investments alone,
leaving the underwriting surplus avail-
able to swell investments and returns
therefrom ; it gives the scrip an attractive
appearance as a long-term security.
Funds are held in this way:
1926. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £50,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities.. .. 20,777 15,528 12,487 14,903
Freehold's . . . . 2,540 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages . . 23,910 40,902 41,843 42,648
Debentures . . 6,000 9,000 9,000 9,000
Public securities. . 36,666 61,912 65.325 68,397
Book debts . . 5,728 7,246 4,050 5,509
Cash, etc 29,073 22,772 30,451 34,598
The year’s surplus earnings, etc., went
into public securities (up £3072), cash,
etc. (up £4147), and book debts (up
£1459). When the books closed, policy-
holders could see net tangibles equal to
194 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
Australian Stock Breeders
, Dividends >, To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. , —Pref.—•, Ord. serves, serves.
jj? £ £ £
1925.. 9,029 8 p.c. = 7920 Nil 1,109 4,231
Less. Deficit.
1926.. 29,152 Nil Nil 24,921
1927.. 31,370 Nil Nil 56,291
1928.. 1,778 Nil Nil 58,069
1929.. 5,089 Nil Nil 63.158
1930.. 3,499 Nil Nil 66,657
1931.. 8,865 Nil Nil 75,522
1932.. 143,585 t Nil Nil 219,107
Loss on sale property, £4125 .. 223,232
Accrued pref. divs., £68,597 .. 291,829
1933.. 7,202 Nil Nil 299,031
Accrued pref. divs., £B5BO . . 307,611
1934.. 1,967 Nil Nil 309.578
Accrued pref. divs., £B5BO . . 318.158
1935. . 7,601 Nil Nil 325,759
*Two years, flncludes writing-down of properties, etc.
The story of the run-owner —this one
took over the old Q.M.E.’s cattle busi-
ness in 1915 —in the far west and nor’-
west of Queensland, where uncertain
rains produce slow-maturing beasts, has
been one of drought, lost markets, fall-
ing prices and rigid costs. For the last
decade the co. has not balanced on the
right side. Including the writing down
of properties, mainly responsible for the
big loss in ’32, and £85,756 of accrued
pref. divs., losses since 1925 total
£329,990, making the deficit on share-
holders’ account £325,759 at the end of
November. Excluding accrued divs., the
whole of the £218,330 of ord. capital and
£21,673 of the £107,249 of 8 p.c. pref.
money were unrepresented by tangibles
when the books closed.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1931. 1933. 1934. -1935.
Capital . . £325,579 £325,579 £325,579 £325,579
Creditors .. 222,073 275,505* 277,531* 269,886*
Prope r t y,
plant and
livestock . . 400,004 291,029 283,318 265,031
Stores, etc.. . 2,358 3,023 1,121*. 1,447
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 4,3 0 7 0,80 1 9,09 4 3,228
includes accrued pref. divs., £08,597, 1933;
£77,170, 1934; £85,756, 1935.
The year’s net reduction of £18,287 in
the book value of property, plant and
livestock, of £5866 in debtors’ balances,
etc., plus £2731 added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, enabled
£18,956 to be clipped off the overdraft,
reducing it to £93,629, which is secured
by a mortgage over the whole of the
assets. The net reduction in the outside
debt (£184,130) was £16,225. At the end
of November the cover (book value) for
the overdraft was 575. 7d. in the pound,
and for the whole of the outside debt
295. 3d. in the pound.
The co.’s memorandum stood in the
way of a proposal to write off the whole
of the ord. capital, cancel arrears of
pref. divs., convert existing pref. shares
into ords., and issue £70,000 new 5 p.c.
prefs. to the Q.M.E. to satisfy a debt
of like amount. What further steps,
if any, the board now proposes to take
are not mentioned in the report. What
is plain is that the outside debt over-
shadows the whole position.
During the last term seasonal condi-
tions were favorable on the co.’s cattle
runs, and a record number of “fats”
were sold. But the gains in this direc-
tion, and more besides, were eaten up
by drought losses on Tarbrax, the co.’s
sheep station. Here the lease runs out at
an early date, and application for an
extension on more favorable terms has
been made. The co.’s fate depends
largely upon seasonal conditions and the
possibility of a little relief by way of
reduced rentals and railway rates.
Peeks, Ltd. (Adelaide)
Nomi-
t Dividends -,To Re- nal Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 4,000 8 p.e. 8 p.c. =2B 4 9 1151 1,951
1929.. 192 8 „ Nil = 1591 552
1930.. 2,837 8 „ Nil =2O 6 3 774 1,326
1931.. 1,774 4 „ Nil = 114 1 63 3 1,959
Loss. Deficit
1932.. 14,071 Nil Nil 1 10Q1 ,
Written off, £6199 .. ..j ~
1933.. 1,589 Nil Nil 19,900
1934.. 1,741 Nil Nil 21,641
1935.. 2,201 Nil Nil 23,842
The position of the ords. in this little
Adelaide tailoring and mercery business
looks pretty hopeless, and it is hard to say
what amount, if any, of the pref. capital
is likely to be rescued. Attracted by high
values and rentals toward the end of the
boom, the co. plunged into debt to
finance a new building, with plenty of
letting space, in North-terrace. Since the
close of accounts in 1928, £14,900-odd of
8 p.c. pref. money has been gathered,
making paid capital £51,591 in 28,941
prefs. and 22,650 ords., £66,466 has been
raised on mortgage, and £7353 net
has been added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors (up £2501 during the
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


THE DIRECTORS HAVE DISCLOSED IN THE PROSPECTUS THE WHOLE OF THE INFORMATION POSSESSED BY THEM
RELATING TO THE MINES.
Abridged Prospectus of
Big Bogong Mines Limited
(Registered under the Companies Acts of N.S.W., 1899-1918)
Dated 29th November, 1935.
NOMINAL CAPITAL-£50,000 ... Divided into 400,000 Shares of 2/6 each
200,000 Shares of 2/6 each are offered for public subscription, payable 1/3 each on application and 1/3 on allotment £25,000 0 0
66,500 Shares of 2/6 each fully paid are to be allotted to the Vendor or his nominees in pursuance of the Contracts hereinafter referred to.
In addition to the fully paid up Shares the Vendor is to receive £BOO in cash 8,312 10 0
133,500 Shares of 2/6 each are to be held in reserve, and such Shares will be offered in the first instance to the holders of the first issue of
Shares at such times as the Directors may determine 16,687 10
0
Directors:
J. WILSON SCOTT FELL, Director, Interstate
Steamships, Limited, I 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
W. E. ETHERINGTON, Director, Maitland Main
Collieries, Ltd., 19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
W. BAIN SCOTT FELL, Director, Scott Fell
Shipping, Ltd., 1 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
C. T. MANNING, Geologist, British Australian
Mines, Ltd., c/o 19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
(Three other Directors may be appointed.)
General Manager:
SCOTT FELL SHIPPING, LIMITED,
I 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Consultants:
O. M. WALLACE, A.M. (Aust.), etc.,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. V. SEALE, M. (Aust.), etc.,
107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Brokers:
MINNETT & CO.,
(Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange),
105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bankers:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
LTD.
Solicitors:
JENNINGS & JENNINGS,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Auditors:
SADDINGTON & DIXON.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Secretary:
J. R. FAVIELL, F.C.A. (Aust.),
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Registered Office:
ROFE CHAMBERS, 19 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY.
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed, inter alia, to engage in mining in all its branches,
and more particularly to acquire and exercise an option of purchase in respect of
certain Gold Mining and Water Rights Leases in the Beechworth Mining District of
Victoria and to continue the development work thereon and to establish the necessary
treatment, etc., plants, and for other objects as set out in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company.
GENERAL.
The property, now known as Big Bogong Mines, is situated near the town of
Mitta Mitta, in Victoria. The Omeo Highway passes through the lease. The area
consists of a Gold Mining Lease of 78 acres of Crown property and Water Rights Lease
of 3* acres adjoining. An abundant supply of water for all power and metallurgical
purposes passes through the property, and a dam and race can be conveniently
provided.
The mine has been extensively developed in a proven gold-bearing area. Valuable
ore has been exposed. Examinations have been made by competent engineers, and
their reports are presented in full in the Prospectus.
Research work in respect of the metallurgy is completed.
It is proposed to commence operations immediately.
The capital to be subscribed from the first issue of shares will be utilised primarily
for —
(1) Building a road through the property from the Omeo Highway to the plant
site.
(2) Construction of the necessary dam and water race to make available the
water power. It is known that at least 200 horse-power is available from the
installation of a Pelton wheel or water motor.
(3) The installation of a compressor and other machinery necessary for the
mining of the ore.
(4) The erection of the first unit of the treatment plant in conformity with the
metallurgical tests already carried out, as shown in reports. This plant will
be income-producing from its inception.
(5) The vigorous development of the ore-bodies to make available a larger
tonnage of ore. It is known that the reefs extend through the length of the
lease, and it is proposed to strip the reefs over their full length to deter-
mine the position of the payable shoots.
HISTORY.
The property was discovered towards the end of 1931 by Mr. William O’Connell,
who did considerable prospecting work by shafts and costeens, from which small parcels
of ore were crushed. The property was then placed under option to Granites Gold,
N.L., which continued the prospecting work by tunnels and shafts, from which small
crushings were taken. It is on record that this company asked for an extension of its
option, but Mr. O’Connell would not accept the terms suggested, and the option closed.
The prospecting then again proceeded under Mr. O’Connell’s supervision. The further
history is contained in the reports published in full in the prospectus.
During the prospecting period various parcels of ore were crushed at a small local
battery. The plant recovery was low, but the bulk values of the parcels were revealed
as being:
ORE DEVELOPMENT.
Prospecting work so far carried out points definitely to three separate ore channels
with a strike approximately north and south.
Major development work has been confined to the most westerly formation, where
a shaft was sunk from the surface on the reef. A tunnel was then driven into the hill
to intercept this reef series. The tunnel and shaft were later connected. It is to be
noted that the shaft is in ore of good values for the whole of the depth of 115 feet.
The reef was then developed by driving north and south approximately 100 feet each
way, and values which are disclosed in the reports are definitely profitable.
Although the ore thus developed has not been blocked out on all sides, the
exposures in this section indicate 3000 tons of ore (vide reports), the sampling of which
shows an average value of 15dwt. per ton, with values up to 50dwt. per ton over a
stoping width of not less than 33 inches.
On the other formations, most of the developmental work consists of small shafts,
costeens and small open cuts, from which the bulk of the ore was taken comprised in
the trial crushings given above, all of which crushings disclose profitable values.
Most of the workings in each of the formations indicate the presence of ore masses
as yet undeveloped, and the evidence that all the masses worked have a profitable gold
content favors the theory that any of the masses to be located would have a similar
content.
A considerable tonnage of ore is thus already available in the mine for treatment.
ORE DUMPS. —Based on the value of the ore-body samplings, it has been estimated
that the directly measurable quantities of ore in the dumps is approximately 348 tons.
This is valued at between 14dwt. and 18dwt, per ton (see reports).
The following distinct advantages predict the favorable future of the undertaking:
(а) The situation alongside the Omeo Highway of what is a completely new
discovery in a known auriferous district.
(б) Adequate water power at small cost.
(c) Ideal conditions for adit mining.
(d) At least three reefs workable from one adit within a distance of 400 feet.
(e) Continuity of reefs along strike.
(/) Distinct evidence of continuity in depth.
(g) Continuity of gold contents down into primary sulphide zone.
See reports published in full in the Company’s Prospectus.
The development work has been kept under close inspection by competent mining
engineers, and their various recommendations have received attention.
PURCHASE, ETC.
The purchase price payable by the Company is £9112/10/-, payable as to £8312/10/-
by the allotment and issue of 66,500 shares fully paid up to 2/6 each and £BOO in cash.
The above-mentioned purchase price includes the price payable to the present holder
of the leases, and is the total consideration payable by this Company.
CAPITAL AND SHARE ISSUE.
To provide the moneys required for the purpose set out, it has been decided to
offer for subscription 200,000 shares of 2/6 each, payable in terms of the Prospectus,
and such shares are now offered to the general public. The Directors reserve the
right to grant priority to or to reject, as they think fit, any particular application, and
if no allotment is made deposit moneys will be returned in full. If the number
allotted be less than the number applied for, the surplus application money will be
applied in part payment of the allotment amount.
INITIAL SUPERVISION.
IT HAS BEEN ARRANGED THAT THE INITIAL OPERATIONS WILL BE
CONDUCTED UNDER THE PERSONAL SUPERVISION OF THE CONSULTANTS,
ONE OF WHOM WILL RESIDE ON THE PROPERTY UNTIL THE WHOLE
OF THE PRELIMINARY WORK IS COMPLETED.
STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application will be made for listing on the Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide Stock
Exchanges, and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company have
been drafted to conform with the requirements of the Stock Exchanges.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES AND BROKERAGE.
The Company will, out of the funds of the Company, pay all expenses incurred
in the incorporation, formation and registration of the Company, and all matters
incidental or in relation thereto, including the payment of (one penny half-penny)
per share as ordinary brokerage.
CONTRACTS.
It is proposed that the Company enters into the following contracts, drafts
whereof have been prepared and marked for identification by the Solicitors of the
Company, and may be inspected at the office of the Company.
(1) Agreement expressed to be made between COLIN THEODORE MANNING
as Vendor of the one part and the Company of the other part, whereby the
Vendor sells to the Company for the purchase consideration hereinbefore
referred to ALL THAT his option, right, title and interest in and to
certain Gold Mines Lease and Water Rights in the Beechworth District,
Victoria.
(2) An agreement with OLIVER MILLETT WALLACE retaining his services
as Consulting Engineer.
(3) An agreement with HARRY VERNON SEALE retaining his services as
Consultant.
(4) An agreement with MESSRS. SCOTT FELL SHIPPING, LIMITED, for
management.
REPORTS AND VALUATIONS.
Separate and complete examinations, etc., of the property have been made by
recognised mining engineers, who all confirm the value of the property, and metal-
lurgical investigations by leading authorities show that good recoveries of gold will be
obtained from the ores by standard treatment practices.
These reports are published ;, 2 j u u j n chronological order, as follows:
Engineers’ reports by—
R. A. CLINTON, M.A.1.M.M., etc.
DR. LOFTUS HILLS, D.Sc., etc.
H. V. FRANCIS B.C E etc
I. W. MORLeV, 8.M.E., B.Met.E., Assoc. Inst. M.M. A.M. (Aust.),
1.M.M., etc.
O. M. WALLACE, A.M. (Aust.), 1.M.M., etc.
Metallurgical investigations by—
PRECIOUS METAL PROCESSES PTY., LTD.
(This investigation was conducted under the personal supervision of
SIR HERBERT W. GEPP.)
MINERALS SEPARATION AND DE BAVAY’S PROCESSES AUST. PTY ,
LTD.
STATE LABORATORIES, DEPARTMENT OF MINES, VICTORIA.
These reports date from December, 1932, in progressive order, to the present year,
covering early investigational inspection, developmental work, and the final report
recommending the purchase of the property.
Attention is drawn to the high opinions consistently expressed by the prominent
engineers employed in the investigations, and the consistent return and common relation-
ship of high assay results by all inspecting engineers.
It is seldom that a proposition is put forward with so many recommendations, all
of which are in agreement, not only as to the geological structures, but as to
values as well.
Reports by such authorities, conforming so much with one another, while being
the results of entirely separate inspections at various times during the progressive
development of the property, must establish its value as a great potential gold-producer.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
The Company’s Prospectus and Share Application Forms may be obtained from
the Company’s Brokers, Messrs. Minnett & Co., from all members of the Stock
Exchange and from the Secretary’s office.
IT IS THEREFORE WITH CONFIDENCE THAT THERE IS PRESENTED TO THE PUBLIC FOR CAPITALISATION A PROPERLY
PREPARED AND INVESTIGATED INDUSTRIAL GOLD MINING ENTERPRISE.


Men’s Aertcx Athletic Combinations
in various qualities.
Hullo, son, come to help me? —You
can take these roses to Mother in a
moment . . . you are proud of your
Aertex shirt, aren’t you? . . . now,
why do we wear Aertex —because
it’s cool and comfortable, and we
must let our skin breathe . . . good
lad! You deserve a new cricket bat
for that!
Prices from 7/- for white. Colored
stripes and checks at various prices.
SCAERTEX
Your garment is not Aertex
unless it bears this label.
Stocked by all good Men's Stores and
Drapers throughout the Commonwealth.
AERTEX TWEED
TWIST SHIRTS
In check designs, short
sleeves, with collar attached.
In Summer heat or sudden
chill, let “AERTEX” keep
you free from ill.
Wholesale only: THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LTD.,
313-315 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Distributors throughout Australia: DENT ALLCROFT & CO. LTD.,
Branch or Agent in Every State.
If any difficulty in obtaining, write to Cellular, Box 1274 L, Melbourne.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and* Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.'
* * * *
DAVIES & COLEISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co, (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O T
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals.- —' dvt.
$ * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydnev. —Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, .Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
last term). The £BB,OOO-odd thus gath-
ered went mainly into premises and book
debts:—
1928. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £36,645 £51,591 £51,591
Mortgage 66,464 66,464
Sundry creditors . . . . 14,033 18,885 21,386
Freehold, iplant. etc. . . 19,242 61,474 61,402
Shares in other cos. .. 25
Stocks 4,012 4,182 3,999
Book debts 27,549 49,381 50,184
Cash, etc 24 513 264
Since debenture-holders took possession
in June, 1932, they have been unable to
reduce the amount of principal coming
to them. The position continued to slip
during the last term. Despite the im-
provement in retail trade generally, a
net loss of £2201 (up £460) was recorded.
Little, apparently, was set aside for de-
preciation ; the net reduction in the book
value of fixed assets was £72. Assum-
ing that debtors’ balances and stock are
worth their book value, more or less
liquids exceeded the floating debt by
£33,061. To represent the balance of
the mortgage money (£33,403) there
were premises in at £61,402.
In the books there are net tangible
assets equal to 19s. 2d. per pref. share.
The whole of the ord. capital has been
lost.
Australian Alloy Steel, the little Syd-
ney concern which is turning out high-
grade general foundry products and
agricultural implement parts at low cost
by its patent gravity die-casting system,
continues to make steady progress. The
recent deal with the McGregor Wheel
Grip and Engineering Go., Melbourne,
for manufacture of the whole of the
tractor grips required by it for Aus-
tralia should mean much to the Alloy
Co.; and so should the arrangement
whereby the McGregor Co. becomes
distributor for the other’s . agricul-
tural implements. Further, the co. has
just received 6250 fully-paid £1 shares in
Alloy Steel (N.Z.), Ltd., which will
operate the Australian co.’s patents in the
N.Z. Electric Steel Co.’s works at Christ-
church.
* * * *
Stimulated by optimistic reports con-
cerning the possibilities of Fijian gold-
mining ventures, especially on the Tavua
field, the market valued them at figures
which heavily discounted the possibili-
ties of future developments. It was a
wild gamble, considering that the finds
were in virgin country, about the geology
of which little is still known. In October,
shortly after flotation, Emperors (10s.
shares, now fully paid) were bumped up
to 265. on ’Change, and Koroeres (10s.,
paid to 35.) touched 20s. 6d. Lolomas
(55., paid to Is. 6d.) soared to 38s. 9d.
at the beginning of December. Much
of the buying was speculative and
financed on credit. Prices have tumbled
in this way:-
, Market Price of Shares—— —\
0ct.,’35. l/12/’35. 10/l/’36. l/2/’36.
Emperor . . 26/- 19/4 16/3 9/8
Loloma .. 38/9 35/9 20/-
Koroere . . 20/6 11/- ; * 8/9 3/6
It had become apparent that there
would be a long wait before dividends
could be paid; and there has been
forced selling. Further, under Stock Ex-
change regulations, the 600,000 Emperor
paids handed to the vendors —they got
£300,000 in cash as well—can be dealt in
six months after the co. has been listed.
But there was a rally on Monday:
Emperors were at 12s. 2d.; Lolomas, 235.
6d.; Koroeres, ss. 3d.
* * * *
Placer Development, which is jointly
interested with Oroville (London) in the
Pato Consolidated and Asnazu proper-
ties, Colombia, S. America, reckons there
is a minimum of, 144,000,000 cubic yards
of dredgeable gravel (including tailings on
Pato) in the two areas combined. After
deducting 20 p.c. of the estimated
Asnazu profits in respect of the vendors’
interest in that property, the combined
working profit of the two areas is figured
at 15,600,000 dollars; that is leaving
amortisation out of the reckoning. With
the exchanges as they are, Placer’s pro-
portion of this would be approximately
£1,974,683. Placer and Oroville each hold
a 50 p.c. interest in Pato, and each a 40
p.c. interest in Asnazu. Placer is respon-
sible for management of both.
* * * *
Mt. Ore Deposit Syndicate, the Mel-
bourne concern which recently took an
option over Iron Island (Q.), has received
an order from a Japanese co. (name not
disclosed) for 500,000 tons of ore annu-
ally— term of contract not mentioned
either. The stuff is to be shipped in
Japanese vessels as ballast at 9s. a ton.
Costs are not expected to exceed Is.,
which looks like a very low estimate.
On this basis, there would be a working
profit of £200,000 p.a.
* * * *
Big Bogong Mines, Ltd., is a Sydney
float to take over and work three parallel
formations on the western side of the
main Omeo highway, about 18 miles
south-east of Mitta-Mitta (Vic.). Nominal
capital is £50,000 in 2s. 6d. shares, of
which 200,000 have been offered. The
vendor takes 66,500 paids plus £BOO cash.
The co. thus aims at a paid capital of
£33,312. The other 133,500 shares are in
pickle. The deposits, first discovered by
William O’Connell toward the end of
1931, have been examined by five geolo-
gists, all of whom reckon that prospects
warrant further development. The gold
occurs in quartz-filled fissures in slate,
and there is a fair prospect of the for-
mations living to considerable depth, says
O. M. Wallace. Enough work has not
yet been done to estimate the quantity
of pay-ore available. The western reef, the
strike of which appears to be consistent
for about 900 ft., is the most promising.
At one point, sampling to a depth of
113 ft. discloses varying widths of ore,
which continues underfoot, and suggests
an average of about 15dwt. over a 30-
inch stope. Sulphides come in at about
90ft. The 348 tons of ore in the dump
is expected to average between 14dwt.
to 18dwt. Metallurgical tests suggest no
serious treatment difficulties. On the
board are J. Scott Fell, W. B. Scott Fell,
W. E. Etherington and C. T. Manning.
* * * *
Oceanic Gold Explorations is a Mel-
bourne prospecting concern in which, for
the present, the ordinary investor is asked
to shut his eyes and back the manage-
ment. The co. was formed to “dispatch
an expedition to certain islands in the
Pacific Ocean known to be gold-bearing.”
The expedition, consisting of four mining
engineers under the leadership of T. J.
Shephard, sailed on the Joseph Conrad
on Jan. 29. If and when anything con-
sidered worth while is found, a subsidiary
will be formed to deal with it. Nominal
capital is £lO,OOO in £5 shares, of which
1500, to be paid to £2 each on allotment,
have been underwritten by Wallace H.
Smith and Co. The other 500 are in
pickle. Australian Prospecting, Man-
dated Gold and Pacific Gold have each
taken 150 shares, and Cracow Gold 100
shares. On the board are Wallace H.
Smith, T. R. Victor, J. C. Dawson, A. G.
R. Williams and A. J; Villiers.
4= * * *
After a run of poor returns from the
spurs along the eastern side of the main
ore-body, Ironbark, operating on the
Sheepshead line, Bendigo (Vic.), has
struck high-grade ore on the 1528 ft. level.
The formation, reported to be large, is
believed to be a continuation of the reef
that was so profitable in the Hercules.
There is about 500 ft. of ground between
the present end of the 1528 ft. level and
the co.’s southern boundary. The find
sent the 155.-paid shares from 9d. :o
ss. 2d. in the market last week-end.
* * * *
All going well, Central Norseman will
commence production at the Phoenix,
Norseman (W.A.), some time in March.
The first unit of the mill has been de-
signed to treat 100 tons a day. Prospects
for divs. within a reasonable time are
reckoned to be bright. There has been
talk of the co. acquiring the adjoining
Norseman Gold Mines. The Central Co.
is controlled by Colin Fraser and his
associates, and the other one by an
Adelaide crowd.
* * * *
The old Bronco, at Burbidge, on the
Yilgarn field (W.A.), is being boosted
under another name by a London crowd.
Estimates of payable ore run into mil-
lions of tons, and formation of a sub-
sidiary to work it is talked of by Yellow-
dine Mining and Finance Corp., the
present owner. Apparently the wealth
now stated to be visible, or most of it,
escaped the notice of those who unsuc-
cessfully worked the show in the past.
* * if: *
Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance, the
last of the series of De Bernales floats
in London, has started to reopen the old
Augusta mine, Laverton (W.A.), and is
confident of success. During the few
years the property was previously worked
26,0000 z. of gold was taken out. Further
development and boring should give a
good indication of what remains.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. is preparing for
extensive development on its recently
acquired Cox’s Find, near Laverton
(W.A.). This show is considered to be
the most promising discovery in the West
since Yellowdine.
* * * *
Goldmining continues to be the chief
absorber of labor in Westralia. Last year
15,424 men were engaged in the indus-
try, and just under 650,0000 z. of gold
was produced. Although number of
men employed has increased in propor-
tion to ounces produced over the last
30-odd years, metallurgical and other
improvements have helped to keep costs
down, while the rise in the paper price
of gold has assisted earnings and divs. In
1903, when 20,700 men were employed,
divs. totalling £7,896,096 were paid. In
1933, when 10,165 men were engaged in
recovering about a quarter of the aggre-
gate ounces mined 30 years before,
£4,289,073 was distributed in divs. This
proportion was maintained in 1934, but
the strike in 1935 caused a decline. This
year increased production per man is ex-
pected, and, since a number of new mills
will be in full operation, an increase in
divs. is looked for, too.
* * * *
The Westralian Nationalist party says
it is dissatisfied with the State’s mining
laws, and wants to tighten them. Leader
Norbert Keenan states that if his party
is returned it will limit the size of reser-
vations, prevent bogus tenure of mining
tenements by speculators, and protect
the public by requiring as a condition of
transfer a full disclosure of the price paid
by the purchasers and the amount received
by the vendors at all stages of the trans-
action. Promoters of wild cats and
pushers of shares in such ventures are
also promised attention.
* * * *
Gold-prospecting has been added to
the list of occupations for abos. at the
Mt. Margaret mission (W.A.). Twenty
of them can loam, dry-blow, dolly, test
ore for values, sharpen picks and drills,
sink their own shafts, make their own
windlasses and use explosives unaided.
They are working ground that doesn’t
pay a white man, most of them follow-
ing up veins and leaders only a few
inches wide. Last year they sent about
100 tons, for a yield of approximately
£6OO, to the Laverton and Linden bat-
teries. The missionaries didn’t take a
penny ; the proceeds were all handed to
the abos.


t'T*"" ', "V" 5 '
II liliSiS pi : II§i; | pf|ill|§glii^mrnmim
f ’S TO'f f .
1 ' * ' I** * * ■• -l mm
ta : >* v Vp'v ; '" ,' / “ ' '
i t '-s ;4 V' ,'"-
wm&mmmMwmwrnmwmmmMwMmwwmmwMmmwmmMmmmmi
' v •■> ' . \ ••>' *■• '*\ y<% ■< %
mmmmmm
i iiiii in iin m§i miii iiiiii 1111111111111
- ' ;" \\ Mi 1
■
i'
1
il
11
mi
ON THE
m
mi
JT '
: :v 1-
-<2:
.
iiiiiMiiiiniiil
ill
»
ii
mm
X
•'lx.
I
Hi
r
'’l ■
O
m
&
s
v
m
'
>
Mm
■«?
n
M
■
81 ■
: : :V : : '.••••
m
: m
m
w
< : :*
V
ml
■
■
1
M
H
4&
m
: :
::
m
m
Hi
1 ■
Bi
: ■
; .■>, I :'/’-*
I
%
Hi
I s:>.
Hi
m
a
■ 4 - ■
-•' . 4,
Aj
-■ : : : :
' • /
■ •:
****'” -Mm-'*"
m
'
.< - •*'.
<•/ .
E
85
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
AGENTS:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide. > ' .
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Milne & Co.,
Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd-,
Hobart.' > '
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
' ' ceston.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Quack”: A Miriam Vale (Q.)
farmer’s wife was baffled for days by
something turning on the house tank-
tap at noon each day and allowing the
water to run to waste. The culprit
proved to be a duck which, by stretching,
was able to turn on the tap with her
bill and give her brood a bath and drink.
And the birds don’t stop at' taps; a
farmer in the same district missed a pile
of new two-inch wire nails. The thief
was discovered when one of his prize
Indian Runner ducks died ; a post-
mortem revealed the missing nails stuck
in its gizzard.
* * si: *
“Laetitia”: For strength in proportion
to bulk I nominate the old-man goanna
as Hercules of the reptile world. On
the Torres Strait islands, where they
attain the proportions of young crocs.,
one had almost disappeared in the cleft
between two rocks when a full-grown
“boy” grabbed him by the tail. The go.
obtained a purchase for his nails, and
looked like winning the tug-of-war,
when a detachment of the entire tail
unit precipitated the abo. backwards.
Incidentally, can any Aboliar enlighten
as to the longevity of the go.? One
big fellow on Thursday Island has
defied all attempts to trap it for at least
10 years.
* => * *
“Spud”: Prize for the greatest animal
freak? I nominate a calf born on a dairy
farm near Perth. It has five legs, two
tails, two udders, is bi-sexual and in
perfect health. The attending vet.
reckons it unique in the cattle world.
Both parents are Australian Illawarra
Shorthorns, and are not related. The
owner is reaping a steady income ex-
hibiting the calf in the city.
“Avon”: I agree with “Tom Willie”
(B. 15/1/’36) that mirages aren’t likely
to deceive anyone that’s sober. Made
my first acquaintance with ’em on the
Canterbury Plains (M.L.), credited with
being the flattest large stretch of coun-
try on earth, and capable of producing
mirages in almost any sort of weather.
But those mirages weren’t deceptive.
They were always double or treble re-
productions of a distant skyline—first
one upside down, next highest right side
up, and the top one (if it ran to a treble
display) upside down again. I’ve only
seen one in Australia (they don’t flourish
round Sydney), and it was a singleton—
upside down.
“Win”: Ever seen a mirage sweep some
object completely off the landscape?
When working at my neighbor’s, I came
out one sunrise to find that my own
house had disappeared. The orchard
and shed were there, the haystack gone.
There was nothing else to suggest
mirage.
* * .1! *
“Williami”: The best all-in world’s
championship fight I ever saw was
between a trapdoor spider and a hornet.
1 had my money on the spider the
moment I saw the hornet tip up the
door and rush in to challenge the tenant.
In a moment I wasn’t too sure if I was
on the right one. Out came the bruisers,
tumbling in a cloud of dust and going
for a knockout from the start. The
spider, with his nippers open, bored in
but’ the hornet back-stepped and stabbed
with his long and deadly proboscis. One
home thrust and the black pug would
have been a bad case of K. 0., but he
nimbly sidestepped, the round ending in
a draw. So did each of 20 rounds there-
after. For half an hour the combatants
fought, never moving more than a foot
from the trapdoor, but several times the
spider escaped into the hole. Down after
him went the hornet, and out they both
came to continue in the open. In a
desperate final sortie, the spider snapped
and missed ; the hornet was on him in a
flash. Locked together they fought
desperately, digging their toes into the
ground and refusing to break. It fin-
ished in a draw—both dead.
* * *
“Quart-pot”: “R.W.’s” fly-blown tree
(B. 25/12/’35) reminds me of a coolibah
which I opened near Warbreccan (W.Q.).
When the axe bit into the limb there was
a hollow about a foot long and an inch
or more in diameter; and the whole of
that pipe was stuffed as full as it could
stick with baby frogs. They were a
palish green, almost creamy, when the
thing was opened. As the light flooded
in they changed color, gradually darken-
ing to the deeper green which they would
"I'll letcha lead me, but, if y value y'r life, don't PUSH.”
have acquired had they lived. But inside
half an hour at the most the last of these
skinny frogs gave a feeble flutter and
turned up its toes. I can imagine what
killed them —the sun was too strong. I
don’t know though how they got there
and on what they developed.
* v : i : $
“Aileron”: A Yank has invented a
method of overcoming the dreaded
“spin” which is still a danger to the air-
man. A small parachute is released from
a locker in the side when the ’plane
refuses to straighten out', and this is
said to interrupt the spin. It may work,
but I recall old Cap’n Jones (M.M. ret'.),
whose old mare used regularly to bolt
with him when he went driving. Scorning
the assistance of landsmen, the old man
loaded a small kedge into the back of
the buggy and connected it up with a
two-inch manila rope. The first time
the mare bolted again the kedge was
dropped over the stern. It worked like
a charm. The buggy came to a dead
stop, but the mare went on with the
shafts behind her and the captain cling-
ing round her neck. She carried him five
miles before she jettisoned him at Flana-
gan’s pub. Next day the captain bought
a bike.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A deal of nonsense is
palmed off on southern tourists concern-
ing the allegedly bottomless animal- and
abo.-shunned lakes of the Atherton
Plateau. Each in the crater of an extinct
volcano, they are sufficiently lovely to
need no false interest. Barrine has been
bottomed at 330 ft., Eacham at 240 ft.
Both are the homes of innumerable
ducks, waterfowl, eels, turtles and
platypuses. Both have outlets, Barrine at
Toohey’s Creek. The levels of both vary
with rainfall, up to 3ft. or more. The
yarn about the blacks fearing to go near
them is probably due to the fact that
there was plenty good pfeller tucker to
be got more easily elsewhere. Black
Brother had to scratch too hard for a liv-
ing to take any interest in scenery.
>:• * *
“Dungeness”: Are there any recent
records of the use by natives of southern
coastal New Guinea of long tubes from
which they blew lime into the eyes of an
enemy? Torres and the rascally Prado
who accompanied him on the voyage
through the strait in 1606 both mention
such weapons. Cook, more than 160
years later, refers to natives who puffed
smoke from long tubes, apparently with
hostile intent. Captain Blackwood, in
1846, records that he saw natives about
the mouth of the Fly River “making
signals by puffing smoke and fire out of
a tube, looking just like the flash of a
musket but without any report.” In
Dutch New Guinea I have seen blow
guns used for killing small birds, but in
a fairly wide experience of native cus-
toms, from Fak Fak to Samarai, have
never come across lime-blowers or
smoke-tubes. The Sulu pirates used the
former when making boarding attacks.
* * * *
“Notaden”: For the last month rail-
way and car travellers passing by night
through the North Coast country, 40
miles or so north of Brisbane, have been
puzzled to see cleared patches burst into
a soft glow of light, across which flash
spots of brighter light. The spectacle is due
to an unusual prevalence of fireflies, and
occurs most strongly in blady-grass
areas. Our fireflies are really small
beetles which possess the power of emit-
ting a phosphorescent light from the
abdomen. Only the males possess wings.
In a mixed gathering, alarmed by the
noise of the passing train or car, the
ladies glow and sit still, while their boy
friends light up and unchivalrously take
to the air for safety. Fireflies are no
relation to glowworms, which are the
larvae of a species of .fly.
* * *
“G.M.”: I fly in the face of popular
opinion by asserting that, though speak-
ing birds may not know the precise
meaning of the words they utter, they
have a distinct knowledge of the spirit
in their remarks. Here’s a test I’ve ap-
plied more than once in proof of my
contention. Get a cockatoo who is a
good linguist. Scratch his head and pet
him and he will say “Pretty Cocky” or
something to that effect. Then flap a
towel at him until he loses his temper.
The remarks he will make then will be
the sort which have to be handed up to
the Bench on a piece of paper. I once
had a bird that had been frequently re-
buked for pulling up' growing turnips.
He had been punished so many times
that he grew to associate the word
“turnips” with his crime. One day in
the garden he was strolling suspiciously
towards the turnip-bed, and when asked
“Where are you going, Cocky?” replied
defiantly, “Pull up the turnips,” which
he promptly did.
* * * *
“Nikko”: And tell “Sa Tiko” (B.
22/1/’36) that if the magpie isn’t run
down by cars it isn’t the bird’s fault.
Motoring from Temora to Young
(N.S.W.) one winter morning, we found
the road dotted at short intervals by
groups of maggies, all of which showed
the greatest reluctance to move until the
car was almost upon them. At each side,
in the bush and on the paddocks, were
gatherings of the birds, all with their
heads together and their black, parsoni-
cal-looking backs outwards. As it was
just before a State election, the theory
was that they were discussing the
political situation.
* t- *
“Ghealug”: “Sailor” (B. 25/12/’35)
may be right about sharks and their
food preferences and the abundance of
fish-food in tropical waters, but he is
very wide of the mark when he says that
shark tragedies are practically unknown
in the tropics. In spite of the publicity
given to Sydney surf attacks, the little
Torres Strait Hospital at T.I. can show
records of more shark attacks than all
the hospitals of Sydney lumped together.
During the nine years ended December,
1934, there were 31 cases of people being
bitten by sharks in Torres Strait, and
of these 11 were fatal. Not in one case
was a European the victim.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Recent storms and gales in
Queensland have done some curious
things. By reason of a squall and an
open window a Golden Casket ticket
which later on won £lOOO narrowly
escaped being blown into the kitchen fire.
A. flying sheet of iron neatly decapitated
a calf. Three others were wrapped so
tightly round a tree by the force of the
wind as to need tools for their removal.
Hailstones penetrating the hood of a car
gave the driver a handsome black eye
and a bump on his head the size of a
half-lemon. Large numbers of fish were
drowned in estuaries by the sudden influx
of fresh water. On account of damage
to telephone lines a detective was obliged
to make a rough 60-mile journey by car
to get in touch with a witness in an im-
portant law case. Two people were
killed by lightning. A lad running to join
his father for shelter from a windstorm
in a clump of trees saw every tree
snatched away except the one his father
stood behind.
* H: * *
“Runa”: I met' my first bluebottle on
the Karekare beach, on the West Coast
of Maoriland. Delighted with the peacock
hues the creature flaunted, I, used to
handling with impunity stranded jelly-
fish of all varieties, went to pick it up.
What made me pause I don’t know, but
I decided to carry my find back to camp
on a piece of driftwood. As I walked
along the beach the thing began to cast
off threads until filaments yards long
were trailing behind, adding to my tri-
umphant entrance into the dining-tent. A
clamor of disapproval greeted me, and I
was asked to retire with the “stinger.”
The pest is not common on M.L.
beaches, but everybody else knew that
bluebottles were best avoided.
* * * *
“Groper”: Regarding this triple-hook
snapper-fishing argument. Obviously we
fish differently in Sou’-Westralia —and
our fish sound bigger. We average
snapper at 151 b., with an occasional one
at 201 b. Jewfish run easily to 301 b. And
there are no spare hands on our boat
to help haul in and give a tap with a
“nutter” —even the skipper, who has to
watch the wind and the drift, holds a
line and helps with the tally. And we
wouldn’t use a “nutter” on edible fish.
Having an eye on the market and the
fact that snapper heads are in demand
for the making of a delectable soup, we
refrain. Of course, a triple-hook line
could be used for small snapper—
“squire”—and some of our anglers’ clubs
put up big records with such tackle
among the kindergarten stuff; but / was
speaking of adult fish.
# * * *
“0.P.”: Members of the inquisitive
sex seem specially gifted in recognising
sounds (B. 15/1/’36). A woman living
on a country road can name correctly
the owner of any local horse-drawn
vehicle that passes. I once owned a
foal who would clear the sliprails
directly his mother’s hooves were heard
on the bridge that spanned the channel
a mile away. It’s remarkable how far
the sound will travel on a still night.
OLD BLACK CROW.
In bush and hamlet, all the year,
Where’er I chance to go,
Afar or near I’m sure to hear
Your greeting, old black crow.
The seaside camps to far outback,
Hot climes to sleet and snow,
And yard and shack on every track
All know you, old black crow.
On snares designed your fun to mar
A sly look you bestow;
You’re wiser far than most birds are,
And cunning, old black crow.
You’re oft denounced a plaguey scamp,
Though you do good, I know,
Where vermin ramp about the camp
And paddock, old black crow.
You’re branded with another’s sin—
And hence your troubles grow—
The bad that’s in your white-eyed kin,
The raven, old black crow.
’Most everywhere a blunderbuss
Awaits to lay you low.
Still, though in times of fret and fuss
Your quark becomes monotonous,
I’d miss you, old black crow.
N.S.W.
E.S. Sorenson.


“Wool Away”: London saw its first
sheep shorn by machinery when 1500
which act as lawnmowers for West End
parks were treated with a four-stand plant.
Previously the old hand-tongs had been
used. Further particulars would be wel-
come. For instance, did the English
barbers work on the loose sheep between
their knees as their Australian cobbers
do? As a small boy, writer earned black
marks by his derisive behavior at be-
holding his first Yorkshire sheep-shear-
ing. After being bathed in the beck and
carefully dried, the jumbuck was laid on
its side, with legs securely tied together.
Squatting by it, the ancient who did the
job leisurely removed the fleece with a
pair of shears that dated back to early
Anglo-Saxon times. I was told the ringer
could do 20 in a 10-hour day with a
man to catch and tie for him.
* * * *
“R.H.”: No doubt about the death-
adder harmonising with its surroundings
(B. 8/1 /’36). I came across one on an
almost-white sandy track, and would
have passed it but for the surface bulge.
Incidentally, when roused, it is the
niftiest reptile of them all. I stood off
one with a long-handled shovel and tried
to get it on the back before it
struck, but it beat me each time until
it became exhausted. And there is no
doubt about the potency of its venom.
After dispatching it, I tossed the body
on an ants’ nest; next day there were
hundreds of dead ants near its mouth.
* * * *
“Brix”: In a netted paddock beside the
Wollondilly (N.S.W.) we had paused to
watch a platypus in the stream when
the dogs discovered a rabbit and gave
chase. It made for a large, hollow
willow-tree besides the water and ran
up the trunk. One of the boys put his
hand in from above and clutched some-
thing furry: a large possum blinked in-
quiringly at us; on his back sat the
yellow rabbit, and beside him was the
head of the foremost dog. It was hard
to say which looked the most astonished.
We grabbed our subterranean mutton,
and the possum, his home once more his
own, curled up and slept again.
* * * *
“Embryo”: One of the worst pests
citrus-growers at Lake Boga (Vic.) have
to contend with is the webbing spider,
Lampona obsccena. These energetic
insects, about iin. long, fat and light grey
in color, at first web a few leaves to-
gether, then twigs, and finally branches,
until the tree from top to bottom
is enveloped in an inconceivably sticky
mess of web off which
water runs like an um-
brella. So thick are
these webs that no
toxic sprays will pene-
trate, and therefore
growers have to be con-
stantly on the alert; on
the first signs of the in-
sects’ activity—usually
in the spring and early
summer —the embryo
webs have to be cut
off. If they are just
torn off the insects spin
to the ground and im-
mediately race to the
trunk and up the limbs
to start again. The spiders do not
bite, but it is almost impossible to keep
them from getting beneath the clothes,
resulting in a peculiar itch which de-
velops into a nasty irritation; they
live on small insects which breed pro-
fusely on the shores of the lake. A
puzzle to entomologists is that the male
has never been located ; it is presumed
that this spider, in common with many
other varieties, finds hubby so attractive
that it devours him after the mating
season.
“De Aar”: Orange (N.S.W.) received
a scare recently when a circus lion pass-
ing through the town roared too loudly.
But Broken Hill got a worse lion scare
before the war when one of the felines
belonging to a travelling menagerie
escaped and ran through the town, to
wander aimlessly over the outer terrain.
“Shay, old chap, what time does the bar open on your boat?"
Eight o'clock, sir"
“Thash no good to me —I don't get up till ten."
Most of the population of the Barrier
gathered at a safe distance, ready to run
if the animal turned, but it simply con-
tinued to stroll about, looking thoroughly
unhappy. Suddenly it grew energetic
and galloped back madly, while some
two thousand people scampered in all
directions, getting on roofs and climbing
verandah posts. But there was no need
to worry. The tamer had driven the
cage out, and as soon as the lion sighted
it he made a beeline for it and jumped
in the door, obviously happy to be home
again.
* * * *
“Kentia”: Rat-hunting has now be-
come a major sport at Lord Howe
Island, though the taint of professional-
ism is strong. As soon as the dogs find
a tree infested with rodents, a thatch
(Kentia palm leaf) is lit, the smoke being
fanned into the roots. The rats emerge,
to be snapped up by the dogs or killed
“Good morning, early birds! This is Samson, your radio physical-culture
instructor, speaking from his gymnasium. Now take the first exercise
with me: One, two”
by sticks. If they run up a tree a shot-
gun completes the work. The tails are
cut off, and the magpies, which invari-
ably follow the hunt, greedily devour the
corpses. The attraction of this pastime
is, of course, a bonus —4d. a tail is paid
by the Board of Control.
“Pullum Leg”: According to “S. M.
Herald,” those “uncivilised” Binghis
from Palm Island mission station (N.Q.),
brought to Sydney to take part in one
of Chauvel’s films, hail from such out-
landish spots as the Weipa River, “where
few white men have ever trod.” Jardine
and scores of other whites travelled that
country before these abo. actors were
born. And Willie, Sam and Charlie were
reared at Clump Point (not “Pond,” as
the “Herald” records), “a few hundred
miles from Cloncurry.” Why Cloncurry?
Clump Point lies at Innisfail’s front door ;
Cloncurry, where the copper used to
come from, is the best part of 600 miles
west of Townsville. The interview with
Willie Lowrie, a police black-tracker, fur-
nished the information that “he felt very
uncomfortable in his clothes.” He must
have, after having been accustomed to
them since piccaninny days. The visiting
Palm Islanders are as tame as the boom-
erang sellers at La Perouse.
* * * *
“T.H.”: Is there a better linguist any-
where than the Australian abo.? His
ability to learn languages is inherent.
Boys who work on Japanese pearling
luggers for six months will come off
speaking understandable Malay and
Japanese, and after the same period with
a Chinese storekeeper or laundryman
they will be sing-songing in the best
Chow fashion. Everyone of them can
speak at least two or three abo. dialects,
and some native tongues resemble each
other about as much as do English and
Chinese.
“Bungarrer”: Gins are extra super-
stitious of the celluloid doll (B.
18/12/’35). A gollywog or a sleeping
doll in the Laverton (W.A.) district would
draw merely a scared “Nothing let picca-
ninny see that one.” But show a belli-
gerent gin a baby doll and she just melts
into the landscape. I could never find
out whether the doll is so lifelike that
it is regarded as a mummy or is looked
upon as a debbil-debbil.
* * * *
“Speewaa”: Mrs. Ronald Colman is
said to have brought with her to Aus-
tralia a Tenerife spaniel which sings
when it is happy. But this is
not the only example we have
had of a pup capable of emit-
ting more or less sweet sounds
at will. Attached to a well-
known deadbeat at Sale (Vic.)
many years ago was a tyke
which won his master many a
free beer by raising his head at
command and pouring forth rich
contralto tones which the owner
identified as well-known melo-
dies. “Another beer and he’ll
give yer ‘Sweet Alice, Ben
Bolt,’ ” the proud proprietor
would announce, and it was an
unadventurous bar which would
not spar up the pot. I myself
encountered a singing horse on
a farm near Violet Town (Vic.)
some years ago. Just an ordi-
nary horse he was to look at,
but as soon as a stranger
approached the homestead he
would burst into a paean of
rich, fruity vocalism, utterly un-
like a neigh and just as different
from the screams of terror
which backblock horses used to
raise when they first saw
camels.
“Bunny”: The rabbit’s incursions
northward (B. 18/12/’35)? His limit
is where the spear grass starts. Rabbits
have been on the Georgina, north of
Boulia, for 40 years at least, probably
longer, and that in spite of the Rabbit
Board making Boulia its headquarters.
They run right up the river from there
to the spear-grass country. That dry
country is too much for them. The
only place they can knock out a living
with decency and ease is in the
river channels —note the colony at Wau-
kaba Hole, on Walgra. And when the
river comes down in flood that does more
destruction in a week than a dozen rabbit
boards have done in a score of years.
* * * *
“8.F.”: Three times the new city-
bred missus visited old Bob the “boun-
dary’s” camp, and each time got corned
mutton and damper for dinner. Bob ex-
plained that his culinary experience fin-
ished there. A cookery book arrived for
him on the following mail day, and
when the lady next visited his camp she
was most disappointed to receive the
usual feed. “It’s this way, missus,” Bob
told her. “Every one of them there
recipes starts off with ‘Take a clean
dish,’ so you see I was stumped from
the word ‘go’!”
* * * *
“Essjay”: Has “Billy See” (B.
18/12/’35) sought to reason out why the
eucalypt sheds atmospheric moisture
while the pine absorbs it? The latter,
indigenous to damp countries, has a poor
root system, and is a softwood. This
type has large, thin-walled vessels, as
compared with the less capacious, thick-
walled ones of the eucalypt hardwood.
The pine is therefore adapted to store
water internally, whereas the eucalypt
drags all it requires out of the ground.
The accusation that the pine is a bad
watershed tree because it does not pre-
cipitate fog or drip off as much water as
the eucalypt is unfounded. Its draw on
the soil is slight because of the leaf
absorption, while fog-precipitation is
purely a matter of surface area of leaf.
Here the pine loses nothing to the euca-
lypt, and it simply prefers to take its
nectar direct when possible, instead of
indirectly from the soil, which is the rea-
son for those “sickle” leaves of the
eucalypt.
* * * *
“Kataki”: In the days w'hen the world
was young —that is, soon after Maui the
Fisherman had fished up from the depths
of the ocean the islands which now con-
stitute Polynesia—a rat was washed out
to sea, clinging to a piece of driftwood.
The heavy seas soon parted him from
this refuge, and he was on the point of
sinking when he spied an octopus.
“Help!” he cried. The octopus took
pity on the rat, put him on his back
and set off for the beach. But
the rat proved a most ungrateful pas-
senger, for just as they came alongside
the reef he gave his rescuer a good hard
bite and, putting his fingers to his nose,
so to speak, skipped ashore. Since that
time the octopus and the rat have been
deadly enemies, and that is why a large
cowrie shell, a stone and a sliver of
wood lashed together to look like a rat,
and lowered into the deeper pools of
the reef, always prove an irresistible
bait for the octopus.
RASBRIES.
I don’t see why the Gover’ment
Should take me oft the dole
And send me pickin’ ras’b’ries in
Some God-forsaken ’ole.
This berry-snatchin’s tiresome work,
An’ tough, I tell you straight.
You’ve got to go flat out, I know,
To reach your ’undredweight.
And seven bob an ’undredweight
Is all the cockies pay.
So what’s the union goin’ to do
About an eight-hour day?
It’s me for Deadwood Gully and
The grass seeds in me socks,
An’ dodgin’ with me bucket round
The ras’b’ries and the rocks.
It isn’t any use to grouse
When once you’re up the pole,
But —devil take the Gover’ment
That’s squeezed me off the dole.
I don’t mind shiftin’ boulders and
I don’t mind failin’ trees;
But, spare me days, I’m fair fed up
With pickin’ ras’b’ries!
TASMANIA.
P.M.


«
’A PINNY
.IN HOUR
t * i
“The whole cost of fuel —freight
and cartage included—is just Id.
an hour.”
(Extract from “R-an-D“ Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
.Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE in QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
.••VALLEY BRISBAME ■
EASTBOURNE
THE IDEAL RESORT
1. For leave or retirement.
2. For the education of your children.
3. A remarkably equable climate.
4. Accommodation, at reasonable
charges.
5. Sport and entertainment at all
times.
6. Music daily throughout the year.
7. Easy access to and from London
(60 miles).
Eastbourne, England's " favoured " health resort,
has a wonderful sunshine record. His Majesty The -
King stayed at Eastbourne before the Silver
Jubilee Celebrations.
\V..*
•:u> *v
wr
Make use
of this !
Official handbook, and any information you need regarding
Eastbourne and its amenities, gladly sent oh request to
Dept. 80, Information Bureau , Eastbourne, Sussex.
Hand
lited
KANGAROO
HIDE BELT
A belt is a very personal
thing to a man.
Experience a new idea in
trouser comfort by
wearing one of Pike
Brothers 10-strand
hand ridge-plaited
Kangaroo Hide Belts.
The finest and strongest
made.
PIKES
of QUEEN STREET
/ BRISBANE.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Super Wools and Super Brands.
“Murrawong”: It may be too much
to ask for some future standardisation
of wool brands, but a glance at the
description of the lots in any broker’s
catalogue brings the conclusion that the
staid document is sometimes beginning
to look like a prospectus.
This practice of branding wools as
“Super” has spread to such an extent
that, if competition makes it necessary
to add further superlatives, we shall have
to resort to longer bales to find room
for the brands. While many wools merit
the “Super,” others do not.
The quality brand on a bale has prac-
tically no influence on the price, except
where it acts adversely. One of the
best-known specialty clips never uses
anything more elaborate than AAA for
its top line, and its prices are seldom
beaten.
A super wool is not necessarily a type
of 74’s or 80’s spinning quality. There
are super wools to be found in medium
and strong merinos and in Corriedales,
comebacks and crossbreds.
The terms signifies that such wools
possess in full all the best characteristics
of their type, such as length and sound-
ness, and are, in addition, of outstanding
quality and style and show all the signs
of good breeding. As a rule, such wools
are of good color, with a high yield.
Several clips have recently come on
the market with 25 per cent, of the bales
branded “Super,” plus a string of As,
where 5 per cent, would have been more
than ample. The top lines of one large
clip, in particular, contained a propor-
tion of stylish fleeces through a larger
proportion of average wools. Apparently
the classer had aimed at making bulky
lines, while continuing to use the
“Super” stencil.
The clip sold at a good average price,
but the owner was disappointed because
a neighbor’s AAA line had beaten him.
The reason lay in the classing. If you
want super lines that are super, you must
be prepared to pick the eyes out of the
clip.
A few years ago short, superfine N.
England clothing wools were topping
the market as recognised “Supers.” Then
came the demand for shafty wools, and
there followed the spectacle of super
wools being beaten by pence by the ordi-
nary combing lines.
To-day lower lines sometimes sell
better than the tops. The clip must be
classed to suit' the market.
Country Wool-selling.
“Andy”: This is our experience.
Before the 1933-34 season opened we
were offered an average of 16d. all
round. When sold in November, we
averaged 20|d. at auction. Again this
season we were offered 16d., but in
January we averaged 18id.
There were no offers during the 1934-
35 season, when wool slumped to near
depression prices.
I have seen crutching wool sold on a
showfloor for 16d. It was bought in
the shed —all in—for 4d. or sd. a pound,
and repacked with the above result. We
obtained 16|d. for the best of our
crutching wool that season (1933-34) at
auction.
Pink-eye.
“Albarmount”: I agree with “Lion”
up to a point. Pink-eye does spread more
rapidly through mustering and yarding.
But “Lion’s” sheep must have had p.-e.
very slightly to recover without treat-
ment (B. 22/1 / ’36).'
Two years ago this disease broke out
in a small flock of ewes, and before I
observed it five were blind—two with
badly-ulcerated eyes that required weeks
of daily attention before partial vision
was regained. Under the laissez-faire
method, all sheep so badly infected would
become permanently blind. Anyway, it
is needless cruelty to leave them un-
attended.
If infected sheep are picked out and
placed in the “hospital” paddock, they
can be treated regularly without having
to round up the whole mob. There are
several good specifics, but I generally
use boracic.
The yards and shed are not always the
sources of infection, but will become such
if used by infected sheep. To safeguard
the other sheep it is advisable to use a
temporary yard.
In-and-in Breeding.
“Ghanam”: There is nothing more
erratic than the outlook of many sheep-
breeders on “new blood.” Some seem
to have derived their ideas from the list
of prohibited degrees in the Prayer Book.
Others have read a cursory article or
two and fancy that they have achieved
a measure of skill which puts them
beyond the need of expert advice. Actu-
ally, intuition is a determining factor in
the make-up of a matcher of sheep. The
best men, apart from a wide knowledge
of studs and origins, seem to have a sixth
sense akin to the instinct of the open-
hearth steel man.
It. is wrong to believe, as many
graziers seem firmly to do, that the regu-
lar introduction of new blood will always
add to strength and character of a flock.
It may, but it depends on the rams —and
the ewes.
In-and-in breeding badly carried out
and with the wrong animals may inten-
sify weaknesses; but it can just as
readily stabilise sound characteristics
and breed out bad points. Similarly,
exactly the right type of outside ram
may strengthen thq production capacity
of the stock, but it is less likely to stabilise
sheep than judicious close breeding by
a man who knows his job. It has been
skill in this technique which has made
the Australian sheep, and there are many
unsung heroes of the early days who de-
serve credit for the laying down of a
foundation of method —Dawson, who
was brought out by the A.A. Co., was
one, equally with some of the early
Macarthurs and their employees. Most
of these seem to have learnt their lesson
from the cattlemen who were skilled in
it, and their technique derived from
Bakewell.
Every breeder should remember that it
is more important to class sheep than to
class wool, because, if sheep-classing is
not done carefully and often enough,
there will not be wool of a quality which
needs classing.
There are a few good rules which no
small grazier should neglect: To have an
expert stud classer go over his breeding
flock and lay a basis for him ; to adhere
to that basis whether it involves in-and-
in breeding or not; to buy outside stock
only from breeders of sound reputation,
but on the merits of the sheep, not on
the reputation of the breeder alone ; to
avoid too-recently-established flocks in
drawing rams, since the blood may not
have been stabilised ; to mate only per-
fect animals.
And not to be afraid of close relation-
ships, where the sheep are good and
sound. A young ram, better than his
sire and matched with his mother, should
produce lambs which will be another step
forward in standard. And where there
are available vigorous, healthy, good-
woolled sires and daughters, true to the
type which is the owner’s ideal, there is
no need to frequent the saleyards or the
outside stud.
But always the word “selection”
should run in the mind of the breeder.
Yet he should always remember that
selection in a flock in which there is a
changing blood basis through regular or
indiscriminate purchases can never fully
succeed in fixing a type.
Prepare for Fly.
“Rom Ney”: Autumn and humid days
will bring the green hordes out, especially
as January rain will make soft green
feed. Every man with merinos should
be preparing to crutch. Crutching gives
all merinos a degree of immunity from
fly attack, and also gives ewes and lambs
a better chance at lambing-time.
Period is important, and is dictated
by related times of shearing, lambing
and season. Length of wool is a guide.
Don’t crutch ewes too soon, or the wool
will have grown again by lambing. And
don’t leave it till just before lambing
unless you want to lose many ewes and
lambs through the knocking about and
handling. If crutching can be arranged
to coincide with the first fly attack in
late summer, much expense and work
will be saved.
Incorrect crutching is worse than none
at all. Removing wool from the crutch
alone won’t do. It should be taken from
inside both hind legs, the crutch and
well up over the tail. Cleaning the in-
sides of the legs and round the udder
gives the young lamb a great send-off
in a hard world. Remember, it comes
into life when cold snaps are likely,
and, if it has to fight a way through
dags and wool to get at the teat,
well
Dipping Losses.
“Sheepo”: A report from Cowra
(N.S.W.) of the death of 800 out of a
mob of 2000 sheep from arsenical poison-
ing, contracted through being travelled
too soon after dipping, proves once again
the need to observe rigid rules—in this
case, of course, they may have been
observed.
Sheep must be rested before and after
dipping. To travel dipped sheep imme-
diately after being immersed causes the
pores of the skin to absorb the dip solu-
tion unduly. It invariably contains
arsenic in some proportion; hence there
is danger of arsenical poisoning.
Points to remember are: (1) See the
dip is thoroughly mixed ; (2) water the
sheep, if possible, and allow them to
remain in the yard for sufficient time to
cool off; (3) start early and finish in
ample time to allow the sheep to drain
in pens not overcrowded before travel-
ling them; (4) make certain that every
sheep is well immersed ; and (5) avoid
dipping in wet weather or when condi-
tions are chilly.
It would be wise if-power were given
to those in charge of public dips not to
allow any sheep to be treated unless the
above precautions were to be strictly
adhered to.
Weight Without Age.
“Cow Punch”: Only intensive breed-
ing and steady importation of new blood
so that better-type cows will be freely
available will help Australia’s chilled-
beef trade.
Argentina can produce 7501 b. beef at
2 to 2} years because it has been im-
proving its herds for thirty years or
more. Argentinos know that the chiller
animal must be almost pure-bred, and
that the best of feeding won’t make baby
beef out of scrubber crosses.
What our beef men have to achieve
is weight without age. Maturity at two
years or slightly more means a much
more rapid turnover of capital invested.
Present age of average Australian chiller
beef is senile compared with Argentinian
standards.
McCann, the S.A. Trade Commis-
sioner, suggests that uniformity of classi-
fication of steer beef, uniformity for
speyed and heifer beef in all States —par-
ticularly regarding age—definition of
“heifer beef” and a recognised standard
for chiller steers should have the new
Meat Export Control Board’s attention.
Speaking of frozen lamb, he says that
shipments should be distributed so as to
obviate gluts in December, and that
assistance rather than interference should
be the board’s policy.
McCann knows Argentina. He speaks
like a man who knows control boards.
The Horse’s Hoof.
“R.K.D.”: “Mimosa’s” remarks con-
cerning the frog, sole and wall of a
horse’s foot (B. 22/1/’36) were particu-
larly well chosen.
Far too many Australian shoeing-
smiths pare away the frog, sole and
bars, and rasp the horny wall. Army
farriers are taught not to do this.
I have found it necessary habitually to
instruct the smith: “Don’t cut the frog
or sole, and don’t rasp round the
‘clenches’ ” —a measure that has brought
its own embarrassments. At no time
(though always hoping) have I received
the reply: “I never do, anyway.” The
most, certainly, have complied without
discussion, but some have been quite
hostile about it, and some facetious.
One gentleman heatedly offered me his
hammer, pritchel and salmon-tin of nails
to “finish the flamin’ job” myself. (To
his sultry indignation, I did.) One old
fellow who made a sweetly fitting shoe
was mystified that I should prefer to let
the loose flakes slough off frog and sole
rather than have a “nice, tidy foot.” He
was very concerned about his reputa-
tion—if those “untidy” feet were seen
to come newly shod from his shop. (All
very well, perhaps ; but if loose flakes
need cutting I’d prefer to do it carefully
myself in bright light— not in the gloom
of a smithy.)
When I told another that the horn of
a horse’s foot corresponded to his own
fingernails or toenails, he was amused.
I fancy he thought 1 was mad.
What is the reason for this ignorance?
The average blacksmith is taught and
practised only in the mechanics of his
work. He “finishes off” the job of shoe-
ing a foot conscientiously with the object
of producing the best possible appear-
ance. Only those who take the trouble
to study the construction of the foot and
the functions of its parts finish off their
shoeing with the comfort and well-
being of the foot as first consideration,
appearance coming next. And they are
mighty few.
The remedy? Probably the only effec-
tive one is for owner after owner to
stand over blacksmiths during shoeing
and insist on no interference with the
foot (except the bearing surface of the
wall). This would entail all owners be-
(Continued, on page 24.)


Goldman’s Have Closed One of Their Branches
on account of Property being sold
and are
holding a
HUGE SPECIAL SALE
in order to
Reduce Stocks
D. m cr UNIVEX f
FOLDING CAMERA
MODERN
DESIGN ,
COMPACT
AND
LIGHT.
WORTH
2 GUINEAS,
Only
12'6
POST
FREE
'
The LOWEST-PRICED and MOST RELIABLE Pocket or
Handbag Size Folding Camera on the Market.
Fitted with Synchromatic Lens, New and Easy Peep-sight method of Focussing.
No delay when taking a picture, springs open ready for use at the press of a butto .
Takes Good, Sharp, Crystal-clear Pictures,
PORTRAITS, SNAPS or TIME EXPOSURES.
The Fine-grained Negatives ensure Perfect Enlargements of your Favorite Snaps.
Unbreakable, made of Rustless Metal and beautifully finished in shades of BlacK,
Brown or Grey. . _
Attractively and artistically boxed for Presentation Purposes.
Illustrated and Printed Instructions with each.
Daylight Loading. ULTRACHROME ROLL FILMS, Bd. per Spool (6 Exposures).
RIDING
BREECHES
AND
JODHPURS
Vj
MEN’S JODHPURS, Grey or Fawn, Strong
Whipcord. Were 30/- "t *7 /C.
NOW, pair JL//0
LADIES’ JODHPURS, Well-tailored in
Saddletwist Gabardine. Usually, per
pair 27/6
NOW, per pair 10/11
MEN’S and LADIES’ RIDING BREECHES,
made from Smart and Strong Saddletwist.
All sizes. Usually, per pair, 27/6
NOW, per pair . . 15/11
MEN’S HIGH-GRADE RIDING BREECHES,
in Bedford Cord. Particularly well-
tailored to fit.
Usually, per pair 39/6 <jw //]
NOW, per pair £ i ' V
HEAVY TWEED WORK TROUSERS.
Navy Blue or Dark Grey. Were 12/11
and 14/1.1 per pair. Q/1 1
NOW, per pair 1 1
WELLINGTON RIDING BOOTS, made
from High-grade Leather, Tan or Black.
LADIES’, per pair 27/6 nn/
MEN’S, per pair -
OILSKINS.
DOUBLE-LINED OILSKINS, with Butterfly
Back. Fly Front. Reinforced Sleeves,
Caped Shoulders. A Real Good Oilcoat
for the Horseman. Usually, 42/6 QC/
NOW “
CARTER’S OILSKIN, Half-lined. Caped
Shoulders. Reinforced with Leather. Well
Oiled Material. o*7 /C
PRICE °
SEAMAN’S OILCOAT, Single-lined. A
Strong, Roomy Garment. Reinforced, and
will give Real Good Service. 17/C
BARGAINS IN
BOOTS and
CLOTHING
FASHION SHIRTS, Striped Poplin, Guaran-
teed Fast Colours. Two Collars to Match.
Were, each 7/11 0/11
NOW, each ° 11
POPLIN PYJAMAS, Fast Colours and
Latest designs. All sizes. C/l 1
NOW • ° ll
LUMBERJACK SHIRTS, Check Flannel,
Collar attached, Two Pockets, Long
Sleeves. Were 8/11 C/1 1
NOW ° 11
TWEED SPORTS SHIRTS, Smart Check
or Striped Designs in Fawn or Grey.
Pockets, Collar attached. Tie to match.
REMARKABLE VALUE. K/&
NOW, only ** W
OVERALLS, Blue or Khaki, Bib and
Brace. C/ 1 1
Reduced to, per pair
GREY FLANNEL SPORTS TROUSERS,
Side and Hip Pockets, Belt Loops, Wide
Bottoms. All sizes. Were 12/6. 7/11
NOW 1
MEN’S FAWN GABARDINE RAINCOATS,
Belted Raglan Style, Storm Cuffs.
Were 55 /' OC/
NOW, each
LEATHER LUMBERJACKETS, made from
High-grade Leather. Were 55/-. OQ/fi
NOW, each o^o
CAMP BLANKETS, Dark Grey, 54 x 72.
Price, each 5/11 11/3
Price, pair * A °
Part Postage: 1/- each; 1/6 pair.
Tennis Rackets
Usually 30/- THE 1 LEADER' Now 15/-
1936 OFFER
The “Leader” is splendidly built, with a two-piece English
Ash Black Fibre Laminated Frame and is Strung with
Genuine Gut.
Full GUARANTEE of 60 Days on both Frame and Gut.
GOLDMAN’S are Sole Distributing Agents for the
f ROSVFNOR RACKET CO., who load the World in Racket
construct AU Frames are built for Speed on Airflow
lines.
The Grosvenor “Dictator.”
The only unbreakable Tennis
Racket Frame. Oval or Flat
Top. Usually 80/-
1936 Offer 57/6
The Grosvenor All White
“J. O. Anderson.” Oval or
Flat Top. Usually ... 75/-
1936 Offer 45/-
The Grosvenor “White City”
Super Model. Oval shape.
Usually 75/-
1936 Offer 40/-
The Grosvenor “White City”
Ordinary. Flat Top.
Usually 40/-
1936 Offer 25/-
The Grosvenor “Zenith.”
Oval shape. Usually . . 37/6
1936 Offer 207-
All Grosvenor Rackets carry
full GUARANTEE of 60 Days
Frame and 100 Days on
Gut.
on
'^J!2§2aSS2sinNkN
SUB
::::::::::::::::::
■iiaßaiMvaSSSißiiSS
SKBSiBS
11181111118
■■■taanaaißa
<ll
Enjoy Motor Camping
I
&
'M
m
The “GOLDO”
Marquee Motor Tents Listed Below
have hand-sewn Pole Holes, and are reinforced throughout with high-
grade Canvas. Top of Tent has Roped \\ all Plate and is shaped exactly
The 6ft. Walls are made from 9oz. Duck and are reinforced with Webbing.
Poles are made from selected Timber. Price includes convertible
Partition, Telescopic Poles, Pegs, Guy Ropes, Metal Rope Adjusters and
a Canvas Bag to contain the whole Outfit.
Other features are a two-piece Front Wall, either one or both of which
may be extended to form an Awning, Laced .Corners on W alls, and
many other improvements which make the Goldo Marquee lent the
last word in modern convenience and comfort for Motor Camping.
“Goldo” Marquee Motor Tents
Special Make and Extra Strong Construction.
fds
Also MOTOR COVERS, TARPAULINS and Camp Equipment at
Prices. Write for Catalogue.
Lowest
SQUARE or COTTAGE TENTS.
Made from Heavy ENGLISH
“GOLDO” TENTING. Superior
make only. Well-sewn and Best
Workmanship throughout.
6xB, 14/6; 8 x 10, 19/11;
10 x 12, 26/11.
TENT FLYS, made from Heavy
ENGLISH “GOLDO” TENTING.
8 x 10, 8/3; 9 x 11, 9/9;
10 x 12, 11/3; 12 x 12, 13/9;
12 x 14, 15/3.
All High-grade Goods at Lowest
Prices.
Write for Free Catalogues.
MAIL ORDERS POST FREE.
FREIGHT EXTRA only on Heavy Articles,
such as TENTS, TARPAULINS, etc.
f
429 GEORGE ST.
(CORNER MARKET STREET).
SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
’Phone: 85748.


A LIGHTWEIGHT.
mL
Soft and pliable, and
extremely comfort-
able to wear.
Made in a glossy
Black Calf, in full
and half sizes—
narrow, medium
and wide fitting.
Price, 39 /6.
When ordering by post please state whether narrow, medium or wide
fitting is required.
Order a tin of ABBEY SPECIAL POLISH, 6d. per tin. Made to clean
Black, Tan and Dark Tan Leathers; also a special preparation for Patent
Leather. Better still, why not order a handy Cleaning Outfit. Price, 2/6.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY wa 15.
BOOKS & PAPERS
«- 1
OBIT 6
BuiUuM (foe
ilfea
Nothing smarter or more con-
venient than this neat, new-
shaped Globite Business Case!
It is light and strong, with
a glossy, grained finish, like
leather. It measures I6i x 12
x 4 ins. Ask for Globite No.
4195.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
ICHUTE
BEILIUCSi
r.
m
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape'” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
I 111
m
nmi
/ g ISif"
(P.i'ini
ffMT&lttlleivn.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
coming hoof-conscious. Perhaps if The
Bulletin keeps hammering at them even
that might happen before Judgment Day.
Marram Grass.
“Sheepo”: Little is being done to coun-
teract erosion or sand drift. Those advo-
cating million-pound schemes might do
well to study what was done decades ago
on the sandhills bordering the coast near
Warrnambool (Vic.), where marram grass
was planted for miles along the coastal
ridges.
The strong point with marram is that
it seems to know the work for which
Nature intended it. Thriving in sand, it
is a binder and a counter against drift,
but will not invade agricultural or pas-
ture soils and choke natural and arti-
ficial grasses, as do so many species of
weed pests. As fodder its value is low,
but in a district where drought never pre-
vails stock are never forced to fall back
on marram.
A few experiments carried out in the
Mallee have proved the adaptability of
the grass. It might yet be that district’s
salvation. Planted in Centralia’s sand-
hills, where spinifex is non-existent,
marram might succeed. Warrnambool
could supply thousands of plants for the
cost of gathering them.
Dealing with Peat Flats.
Lucerne Flea”: I have heard many
men state that nothing can be done with
a peat swamp, because, if it is drained,
it dries out so rapidly that nothing will
grow on it. And in its natural state
rushes are its only likely covering.
I have recently seen a swamp turned
into a valuable asset. Treatment began
in autumn, when the land was dry
enough for ploughing. A main drain
was cut from one end to the other, and
subsidiary drains were run into the main
channel. All the drains were very
shallow, the idea being to lower the
water-table to a foot from the surface
only, thus preventing the swamp from
drying out. The drains run to a 35ft.
shaft, sunk through the pan of clay
underlying the peat to a stratum of water-
bearing gravel.
In winter, the swamp fills with water,
but, once the winter rains are over, the
water soaks away rapidly, leaving the
surface ready for cultivation about the
beginning of December. It is then
ploughed up and put under the usual
summer crops—chiefly maize and rape.
Growth is phenomenal.
A good ploughed firebreak is main-
tained around the swamp, for if a fire
gets into a drained peat swamp it soon
ruins it. The peat smoulders, and nothing
short of a cloudburst can extinguish it.
By the time the winter rains come, the
surface has sunk two feet or more and
| the rich soil has become a baked ash
in which nothing grows.
It must be stressed that the drains
have to be shallow; the idea to keep in
mind is to drain a few inches of the top-
soil only. Having the channels too deep
results in the surface soil drying out
before the roots of the young crops can
get down to the wet sponge of decayed
vegetable matter overlying the clay.
Paspalum and Kikuyu.
“Jim G.”: Ten years ago I had a half-
acre paddock covered with couch grass,
over which I broadcast paspalum seed,
hoping that it might eradicate the couch.
It did!
Later I dug in, here and there, a dozen
sods of Kikuyu-grass roots, and it has
been a fight to the death between the
two, but the paspalum is gradually going
out. Between the two the plot almost
feeds a pony for six months of the year
(being so small, the plot becomes fouled ;
otherwise the horse would need no other
feed). The Kikuyu forms a deep lawn-
like mat' and, being continually eaten off,
the paspalum spreads its tussocks in a
luscious green sward.
I have seen eight acres of short' pas-
palum fully feed 500 sheep for six weeks.
If the grass had been allowed to grow
to seeding height, 100 sheep would have
starved on the same plot. Paspalum
must be eaten or burnt off regularly, or
it becomes soured and tough.
Payable Wheat Crops.
“The 0.D.”: Systematic long fallow-
ing, except in the N.S.W. north-west, is
the only way to ensure reasonable cer-
tainty of payable wheat crops. Clean
fallows mean weed-control. This season
saffron thistles, black oats, mustard,
variegated thistles and barley were the
worst w’eeds in N.S.W. crops. Saffron
and barley seeds, beside being objection-
able in milling wheat, are difficult to
grade out of seed samples. Green
saffron, torn through the combs, exudes
a juice that gives the grain a bad taste.
To beat weeds and prepare a good
seedbed plough in early or mid winter
and cultivate in spring. Continue culti-
vation after every shower in summer to
kill weeds. As sowing-time draws near,
workings should become shallower, so
as to compact the seedbed.
The foregoing is, of course, generalisa-
tion. Each district has its peculiarities.
Adapt your farming to suit the district,
and success is not far away. Remember
that sheep, are great fallow workers, and
pay you with wool and lambs for the
privilege of being allowed to eat the
weeds and cut the soil down to a tilth
with their sharp hooves.
Tetanus Among Farm Horses.
“Valerin”: Many a “mysterious” death
among working farm horses may be
traced to tetanus. There is a mistaken
belief among farmers that horses are not
susceptible to this disease.
Badly fitting collars, unprotected trace-
chains, barb-wire fences, broken or
splintered timber in yards and stables,
etc., cause wounds which allow the entry
of tetanus spores.
Symptoms are characteristic. When
the animal is approached it throws up
its head with a jerk, twitches the ears,
gets excitable and has a “mad look”
about the eyes. In advanced stages there
may be convulsive spasms, and it has
difficulty in standing on its feet. When
it collapses the signs cannot be mis-
taken the legs, tail and head are rigidly
stretched out.
Preventive treatment is the best cure.
Keep stables and yards clean and dis-
infected ; remove all causes of galling or
skin injuries. Do not neglect wounds,
which should be thoroughly cleansed and
given antiseptic treatment.
And when a horse goes down, call the
vet. at once.
T.J.F.”: Although provision is made
lor pounds on N.S.W. silo agents’ re-
ceipt vouchers, my experience is that the
facility is ignored. This, if general,
must result in considerable loss to
farmers—especially those who bring in
small loads. As they have to pay for
weighing, farmers should urge their
organisations to have the pounds
included.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to make charcoal for use as a fuel for
a suction-gas engine ? —175.
A method in general use is to burn the wood
in a 44-gallon oil-drum. Remove the top and
cut four holes in the bottom. Fill with 4ft.
split timber and place over a small trench to
permit a draught to pass through the wood,
which is set alight. When the fire is burning
freely the drum is turned upside-down and left
until the smoke clears off. It is then smothered
and, when out, the charcoal is riddled. It is
now ready for use. A 44-gallon drum should
produce about 1 1-3 sacks of charcoal in six
hours, and one man can handle about 25
drums a day.
* * * *
What constitutes a “stock and station agent."
articles dealt in, and laws, if any, governing his
.business in N.S.W. ? —97.
He is concerned with the sale and purchase
of stock and station properties. Details can
be obtained by writing to the secretary of the
Stock and Station Agents’ Association, Parkes,
N.S.W. There is at present no special legis-
lation dealing with this class of agents, but
the matter is under consideration, and legisla-
tion will probably be enacted during the present
session. It is proposed that an indemnity bond
be required from all such agents in the future
to protect the public.
* * * *
(1) What percentage of lambing would be
represented by six lambs from 12 ewes ? (2)
By six lambs from seven ewes ? —lB9.
(1) 50 p.c. (2) 85.7 p.c.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
m
ill
ii
I tin
Hi
ui
H
ill
11
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Repentance
He was a hard man, notoriously hard.
Most people considered that he was
incapable of shedding a tear ; and yet
here he was, with his handkerchief to his
eye.
“I wish I had never come on this jour-
ney,” he muttered.
After travelling hundreds of miles, this
was what had come to him! Tears!
Moralists would probably describe
it as another example of the fact that
there is some softness in everybody.
But there was no softness in this case,
in spite of the tears. Rather hardness.
The rich man, in fact, looking out of
the train window, had got a speck of
grit in his eye.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was proud of his staff; some of them
might be stupid, but they were all well-
dressed.”—“Telegraph.”
Proud of his duds.
4* 4* 4. 4*
“Criminal evades police for months by
dressing himself as a woman.” — News item.
Strange! We should have thought
that this would have exposed him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Why Our Neighbors Complain. {
“You’re late,” she greeted me without
vexation.
“Yes, Snookums,” I admitted. “De-
tained in town. Dinner on the table?”
“Yes, all ready and piping-hot. Hurry,
darling, or it’ll be spoiled.”
“What’ve you got?”
“Oyster soup, roast duck and”
“Seasoning?” I interrupted.
“Of course, who’d roast a duck with-
out seasoning? Green peas, baked
potatoes, fried tomatoes and artichokes
with white sauce.”
“Yum, yum,” I murmured, smacking
my lips. “Strawberries, too?”
“Mmm, and oodles of whipped cream.
Hungry?”
“N—n—no, as a matter of fact, I had
a plate of prawns at Ivan Chisanfipski’s
on the way home.”
Yes, we badly need a new dinner
service now!
P. C.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Excessive gin-drinking is a menace to lon-
gevity.”—Sydney doctor.
The wages of gin is death.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The teacher divided the melon between
those whose conduct had been good.” — “Sun.”
No piece for the wicked.
***
His Weak Moment.
Driving his ’plane earthwards, the
Bink Ace threw back his head and
laughed merrily. He was now in the
centre of the danger zone, and there was
nothing he enjoyed better.
Below him anti-aircraft guns were
being trained skywards, hundreds of eyes
were fixed on him, a whole regiment was
intent on bringing him down. This was
Life to him!
A vicious discharge of bombs, and up
he zoomed, with shots hissing every-
where around him. Again and again
he swooped down to perform that in-
trepid feat, and not once did the careless
smile fade from his lips.
At last, ammunition exhausted, he
turned back towards his own line. Then
suddenly his nerves became on edge ; a
cold shiver ran down his spine; he
had just experienced a sensation which
he found utterly unbearable.
Nervously.he raised his hand, and with
one desperate blow he squashed the
beetle crawling on the back of his neck.
T. W. N.
Intelligence Test for Week-end
Fishermen.
(1) You propose going rock-fishing at
a deserted part of the coast. You are
about to board the train at 6.30 p.m.
on Saturday when one of the party
makes the appalling discovery that the
liquid refreshment has been forgotten.
Give at least one reason why the excur-
sion should be abandoned forthwith.
(2) You have rowed away from all
the other craft so that you can cast your
line in comfort. You immediately meet
with success. Discuss the advantages of
standing up conspicuously in the boat
to land it, your wife at the same time
attracting the attention of other fishing
parties by yelling excitedly.
(3) After a heavy day’s fishing in a
hired boat your companions are
operating on the last of the three
dozen, and you are endeavoring to
haul up the anchor. After 20
minutes’ perspiration and profanity
there is still no sign of the hook. You
notice that there is only about a glass-
ful left in the last bottle. A knife is
close at hand. Describe your pro-
cedure.
(4) It is 102 deg. in the shade, and
“And Zane Grey comes out here after swordfish!”
the bait is getting “high.” Your wife’s
mother, who insisted on coming, is de-
manding that you chuck it overboard.
The fish are beginning to bite well. What
would you do?
(5) Pursuant to the preceding question,
the querulous drone of your mother-
in-law’s voice is getting on your nerves.
As you swing your line, heavily baited,
around your head, you idly notice that
only a slight deflection, caused, say, by
a stumble, would result in your com-
plaining relative’s stopping it approxi-
mately in the back of the neck. In the
circumstances, would you plant your
feet more firmly in the boat?
(6) After fishing the whole day with-
out even a nibble you are just on the
point of giving it up when you suddenly
get a “run” from a big fellow. By the
feel it is an old-man snapper, about
161 b. Just as you get it within a few
feet of the boat there is a sudden swirl,
followed by a complete absence of
“pull.” You bring in the head only.
When you get to the shore some fellow
asks whether you had any luck. Would
vour reply be in the affirmative?
S. W. K.
•T 4* 4* 4*
A Change.
In the three weeks that he was staying
at the seaside he earned the name of
“Honest Jack.” A shopkeeper gave him
change for a five-pound note instead of
a pound, but he pointed out the mistake
and handed the extra cash back. He
found a wallet containing ten pounds,
but he was not happy until he had
taken it back to the owner. Even then
he refused the reward. In dozens of other
ways he proved his honesty and trust-
worthiness, until people were curious to
know the history of such a man.
They found out. He was “Jack
the Grabber,” the accomplished burglar
and pickpocket, taking his annual vaca-
tion from work.
Sef.
Farewell, Adventure!
True, I have never been to a war,
flown over oceans or attended a Mon-
day morning bargain sale.
But hitherto life has not been without
thrills for me. Hitherto, I say, because
soon, it appears, the one and only adven-
ture which has been my monthly lot
will be but a memory.
No more shall I thrill to the reck-
less exploring of hot and uncharted
waters, to the glorious risks of pursuit
after a cunning under-water quarry, to
the honorable scars and sprains insepar-
able from my great monthly adventure.
Some effeminate cow in Detroit has
invented a non-skid bath.
Angus O’Cohen.
4. 4. 4* 4*
Rejected.
The editor sighed wearily, dived his
hand into a pile of unread manuscripts,
and selected one at random.
Mechanically he read it through, men-
tally criticising its deficiencies. “Too ver-
bose . . . lacks humor . . . dull, dreary
stuff . . . iterative . . . too many uninter-
esting figures ... no good!”
With an expression of distaste he cast
it unceremoniously into the w.p.b. and
selected another screed. Not until several
hours later did he discover that he had
absent-mindedly rejected his income-tax
assessment!
Roland Butter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Difficult.
Jenkins is a poor conversationalist. To
start talking to him is the hardest thing
in the world, for there is something about
him that is like an impassable barrier.
I’ve tried talking to him cheerily and
seriously. It makes no difference. After
all, what can you do with a man who,
when you greet him with “Nice day,
Jenkins,” replies “I’m not interested in
the weather.”
Ced.
“The stairs face the right way, which is a
good start.” — “Age.”
Steps in the right direction.
A Gentleman’s Denial.
1 think you stretch the truth a bit
When you declare
That you I pummel, whack and hit,
And pull your hair.
Uncouth persuasion I eschew;
Force l despise;
I never bounce or bully you
Or black your eyes.
At sheer distorting you’re adept,
I’ve noticed, hence
l never punch you, sweet, except
In self-defence !
P.O.M.C.
Making the Weight.
“The Aga Khan, to celebrate his golden
jubilee, gave gold equalling his own weight to
the poor.”
The custom is of particular interest to
me because of an experience my great-
great-grand-uncle Angus McUsquebaugh
had on the occasion of his jubilee.
A sea captain, he was inadvertently
left behind on an island off the coast of
Borneo. His crew wouldn’t have left
him there, only they thought the place
was uninhabited.
The powerful Bakka Bakka race who
lived there had a legend that a Great
King would be sent to them with a red
nose, bandy legs and knobby knees.
Angus filled the bill nicely, so they
promptly dispatched the reigning mon-
arch and placed McUsquebaugh in his
place, nose, knees, legs and all.
The deceased king’s relatives were a
bit upset, but they didn’t live long enough
to worry much. The Council of State
had had it in for the old chap for some
time, and would probably have crowned
the first red nose that turned up, with
or without the other requisites of the
prophecy. The harem didn’t mind in
the least (all our family are handsome
men), and the commonalty hardly knew
anything about it until Angus began to
train a bagpipe band, and then it was
too late to do anything.
In consequence Angus commenced a
long, happy and prosperous reign.
Forty-nine years and nine months later
arrangements were being made to cele-
brate his golden jubilee, and he was told
for the first time of the weight-in-gold
custom.
His first impulse
was to commit sui-
cide. Then he
thought of renounc-
ing the throne in
favor of the eldest of
his 17 sons. He then
remembered a bag
of old brass coins
he’d found in the
palace that looked
“as good as gold.”
Furtively he put
them on the scales.
His heart sank. All
told they weighed
only 731 b. This was
tragic, for Angus
was a shade over 23
stone.
But he was a
Scot! And a Mc-
Usquebaugh!
With three months to go he set to it
like a jockey to get his weight down. Of
course, it had to be done unobtrusively.
First of all he ordered a 60 days’ fast in
memory of his predecessor. This killed
off half the population (the thinner half),
but, as that meant all the more gold for
the survivors, no one complained.
Angus dropped to 15st. 81b. before he
gave in and commenced eating again.
He then insisted on a non-stop Highland
Fling, himself setting the pace. More
casualties. Angus 12st. 101b.
Turkish baths, a cinder track and an
18-day diet knocked off another 401b.;
then with a week to go he had a brain-
wave —he tried a diet of haggis and
porridge.
Day by day flesh fell away from him
till on jubilee day a wizened old
bag of bones was assisted on to the
scales. The bag of dud coins was brought
in. They were tipped on to the other
side of the scales, and as the last coin
dropped into the pan a perfect balance
was struck.
When they lifted Angus off he was
dead, but a smile of supreme content still
wreathed his features.
JASBY.


ISLAND HERITAGE
BY ALISON SMITH
OCLIUUUTJ RATTED) CBV
CD. CK Oi EM CD
[Author’s Note. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XL —( Continued ).
RODDY went, bitter-eyed, back to Ruvia.
He was oddly silent, and to his father,
guessing that something was amiss, he said
nothing. Ruve, who loved him, may have known.
Elena’s ’vigilant eyes dwelt on him with a strange
complacency. It was to Roddy’s credit then that he
relaxed no effort in his new undertaking, though the
good had gone out of Ruvia, as far as he was con-
cerned. He wished with all his heart that he had
never returned to Fiji, but had kept only that one
memory of the child Daphne—a receding, lovely
image of early youth that would perhaps have flowered
into poetry.
The world had changed for Roddy. His old
buoyant light-heartedness, his sunny temper deserted
him; it seemed as though different, once dormant,
elements of his nature were now asserting themselves.
Brooding by night or out in the field, where the men
worked sweating in the sun, a bitterness, new and alien
to him, began to possess him ; even Daphne, who was
still to him a goddess, a wonder of the world, began
to be affected by it. In those moods he saw her despis-
ing him as beneath her because of the stain in his
blood, yet stooping to play with his worship of her.
Then the mood would change ; he would revile him-
self. “Fool! Fool! To think myself worthy of her!
To draw her down to my level —my pale Daphne!
God forgive me for the crime of it!”
But his father saw with dismay that he was inclin-
ing to the world of his mother. There was a fantastic
idea in the boy’s mind that the Fiji of the future
should belong to the men and women of mixed blood.
What breed so fitted as they, he claimed, to inherit it?
“Bloody rotj” said his father when these revolu-
tionary ideas were first vigorously presented to him.
“You’ve got to have one or the other ; the white man
must be master. You’ve more white in you than
dark —you’re to all intents and purposes a white
man.” Rod smiled bitterly ; a distinction was to be
made in his case, it appeared. But—would the world
accept it?
“Don’t be a damned fool, Rod,” was his father’s
rough counsel. “You’re seeing things black now;
but you’re young enough, and there are more women
in the world than that prattling bit of foolishness
you’re breaking your heart over. Be a man —and
take it like a man!”
So his father knew it, too. His case was common
gossip. His mood was more bitter than ever.
Vivien and Denny- were beginning to fall silent
when they were together, to look each at the other
with eloquent eyes. Vivien was barely seventeen —a
lovely, laughing girl, the beauty of the family and the
joy of Laurence’s heart. It was a revelation of another
side of his character to see them together ; she laughed
with him, joked with him, coaxed him when - her
allowance ran short or when she wanted a sudden
jaunt to Suva or Levuka —finding the grim old man
easy to manage. But he hadn’t the faintest notion
that she and Denny would be likely to fall in love ;
he thought they were merely good friends. It was
certain that he would look higher than Denny for a
mate for his adored young daughter.
If Elena noticed, she was content to let the thing
slide. She liked Denny—good-looking young men
appealed to her; and, anyway, she saw Denny from
a viewpoint different from her husband’s. She was
sensuous and amorous; sometimes, when the memory
of the lover of her youth came back to her and her
own passion, she wanted all young things to experi-
ence a like rapture. There was much of the frank
pagan in her; her code of morality was not rigid.
She felt that her young daughter, lovelier than she
had ever been, had a right to take from life whatever
joy was offered. There was time enough for morality
when one was old and the smooth comeliness of
youth had fled. And dimly in the depths of her soul
stirred something that desired to strive against
Laurence, who thought himself the only man who
had ever mattered in her life. A spice of malice tinged
often her thoughts of him ; he was so sure of himself
and her.
Vivien was happy at this time ; she moved like a
creature of light through the spacious homestead. She
was slender and tall, with dusky, beautiful eyes and
lips delicate yet passionate. As far as looks went, she
and Denny were an ideal pair. They were much
together; anyone but Laurence, confident in his own
schemes, would have foreseen it. The shrewd Indian
women nodded and gossiped.
“You and Denny are always together lately,”
Ruve said idly once. She was sunning her drying hair
in a slant of light;, a black-and-green
kimono emphasised the fairness of her
skin. Vivien, lying luxuriously back in a
cushioned hammock, was in vivid contrast.
The two, back from an early-afternoon
swim, were enjoying the pleasant, drowsy lassitude that
followed.
Vivien’s answer was somewhat in the nature of
a surprise. She said quite seriously:
“Denny and I love each other. That’s why I’m
so happy.”
Ruve sat up in an instant.
“Good heavens! You’re only a child yet. Father
wouldn’t have it; he wouldn’t’ think Denny good
enough for you.”
“Why ever not?” queried Vivien, like an inquir-
ing child.
“Oh, don’t be silly! You know! Anyway, you’re
too young.”
“You mean because Denny’s got dark blood —
like me,” said Vivien. “That’s just it. We’re both
the same. Oh, I’ve thought things out, though you
all think me a featherhead. Nobody will ever be like
Denny to me. I know he’ll never get on wonder-
fully—he’s too slow. But we love each other, and
we’re both young and strong. We’d be ever so happy
together. Why shouldn’t we be allowed to marry and
be happy? What’s the good of living if one isn’t
, happy? We’re only young once.”
“What 'will your mother think? Does she
know?”
“Oh,, she guesses. ,She’s too lazyto mind ; and,
anyway, she wouldn’t,be as serious about it as you
are. She’s fond,of Denny, too.. She said once that
the only thing that matters in life is to have what you
want—if .you - cah get it.”
Ruve looked at her young sister with new eyes.
For the first time she was aware that Vivien had
changed subtly from the girl who had - seemed so
easily moulded. She was like Elena —as young. Elena,
as; Ruve not too clearly remembered her in the first
years of her marriage. And quite suddenly the white
girl was aware that there was a difference between
her and the sister she loved. Different racial streams
ran in them ; their outlook would never be the same.
She began to understand why Ellice Grey, good, fear-
ful woman, had not wanted her to return to the
Islands and the lax guardianship of Elena Laurence.
Roddy and Semeli, the engine-boy, were going
over to Valoa for stores. He hoped with all his heart
that the Eliots had gone back to Namaya; it would
be better if he and Daphne never met again.
They did the trip across in easy time, Semeli in
the engine-room and Rod steering. Ruvia, sharply
cut at first —the red-roofed homestead, the copra-
shed, the black wharf and the cleft hills behind—
blurred into one blue-green mass ; long, low Valoa
unfolded into detail before them, wooded hills and
clearings pricked out of the blueness, white, beaches
showed clear. Over the reef now, they ran by craggy
islets that seemed to have come adrift from the main-
land —sheer, upstanding rocks, plumed with foliage,
the waves lapped at them with white tongues. A cutter
sailing down the coast hailed
them across the green water.
Running through the nar-
row straits, they came to
Valoa settlement. Roddy, look-
ing over as they passed the
small, neat house of the Eliots,
noticed with relief that its
shutters were all down.
Semeli found lodging in
the Valoa town for the night.
Roddy, in no mood for Mrs.
Bennett’s sympathetic curiosity,
stayed talking desultorily to
little Clark, the new manager
of the store. He was Mrs.
Bennett’s son-in-law. Flora,
his wife, was still in Levuka,
where'Clark had recently been
employed. She was to come
to Valoa by the new steamer.
“I can give you a shake-
down for the night, Rod,” offered Clark. “What
about cracking a bottle with me? Must get off the
rails sometimes, you know! Besides, Flora isn’t here
to make a fuss. We’ll drink to our next merry meet-
ing, my boy.”
Clark’s little pink-and-white face blinked at him
in the light of a smoky lamp. It was a pity, thought
Roddy critically, that the fellow was so much like a
rabbit. He wouldn’t even have been a good-looking
rabbit, he decided, dissatisfied. “Have another,” said
the rabbit hospitably. “Whisky makesh a man forget
his troubles. You’ll get over it, Rod! Plenny more
girls in world.” ,
So Clark knew it, too, damn him! Everyone
knew. Rod flung out into the night.
Thick darkness came down on Valoa; darkness
in which only the stars rode above the world. His
last night in Valoa had been one of moonlight and
enchantment that had ended in the bitterness of
defeat —the blackness that now possessed his soul. He
felt lonelier than he had ever felt before ; the hurt
that lived like a live thing in his soul cried out for
relief. He went blindly on.
Out of the night she came —dark like the night
itself, and eagerly desirous.
“Lola!” he said.
Her soft hands went out to his, and clung ; she
came close, and the faint odor of perfumed oil that
drifted from her night-black hair seemed to envelop
him. He felt strangely that, coming to her, he came
back to his own people. Something of the bitterness
left him; and the ache of loneliness. She took his
hand and led him with her.
The old joy of living had come back to him again.
He felt a little light-headed; he had drunk too much
of Clark’s whisky. He had never been a drinker, and
it affected him.
They were there, the three of them —old Batila
and Lola and himself. They spoke in the Island tongue
that came to them as a mother tongue. These were
elements of drama, said the critic in Roddy, stirring
a second. The dark, secret old woman like a witch
in a romance; Lola, who loved him, and himself.
What a fool a man was to break his heart because a
white girl scorned him,! He had been a fool to think
old Batila was his enemy ; he had never really under-
stood her. The hanging light above them seemed to
swing like a gold moon ; moonlight made men mad
when a silver-and-honey girl walked in it. Dark women
were better —they were not cold like the fair ones, who
crushed men’s hearts between their pretty hands. He
was done with them for ever.
In the dark night again he walked between them
both —the old woman and the young. Batila carried
a lantern; the yellow light of it flickered up on her
face, which had again a look of malevolence. At the
door of Batila’s own bure they paused. He was glad
the old woman was leaving them ; taking away with
her that sinister, damnable smile. He wanted Lola,
and Lola only. Lola, who loved him.
“Go in, go in, Roddy!” said the old woman,
pushing him with hands that shook a little. She took
away the lantern ; they saw her shambling with it
across the thick grass to the house. They saw her
climb the creaking - steps and draw after her the
wooden door. . ,
. Over the world again fell the thick darkness.
Turning to Lola, he felt that he went to the earth's
dark breast.
Chapter XII.
DAWN —a clear, cool, pale dawn —was filtering into
the reeded native house where Roddy and Lola
lay in each other’s arms. Gradually out of a
uniform soft dusk objects stood out in light. A little
dressing-table, very tidy, , with a white, lace-edged
cloth, a rocking-chair with a bright scarlet cushion
and a big bed that still held shadows under its
looped-up white screen.
Roddy awoke.
He looked about him for a moment with a dim
sense of unfamiliarity and felt then the nearness of
the sleeping Lola: • '
“Good God ! ” said Roddy in a panic.
At the sudden exclamation Lola opened drowsy
eyes. They , looked at each other for a queer, half-
embarrassed second. And then, amazingly, Lola
laughed.
“You look so shocked, Roddy,” she said. “It’s
so funny!”
At- that; irresistible bubbling laughter of Lola’s
over their questionable situation, some sense of values
oddly shifted focus in Roddy’s mind. He felt that
he at last belonged by right of desire to Lola’s world
—the world of the “in-betweens” —that had always
fascinated him. That intolerant father of his was
wrong ; one couldn’t go against one’s blood. He knew
now the meaning of that secretive look in Elenas
THE STORY SO FAR.
The children of James Laurence,
trader and planter, of Ruvia, Fiji, are
a strange trio. Roddy, the eldest, though
almost white, has the blood of Laurence’s
former dark mistress. Ruve is the
daughter of the planter’s first wife, who
died when she was born. The third
child, Vivien, also has dark blood. Her
mother is Elena, a beautiful half-caste
girl, whom Laurence married when Ruve
was a small child.
Roddy and Ruve have been educated
outside Fiji, the former in Auckland
and the latter, in Sydney. Roddy is bril-
liant, but impractical arid is not anxious
to fall in with his father’s wishes and
take an interest in Ruvia. However, he
falls in love with Daphne Eliot and plans
to marry her and settle on the plantation.
She rejects him because of his Island
blood.


dark, inscrutable eyes. She also, cursed with mixed
blood, knew that. It was better to belong openly to
that intriguing, vivid, colorful world. He knew at
last.
Lola’s drowsy voice brought him back to the
problematical present.
“What are we going to do, Roddy?” she said
practically.
“God knows,” said Roddy. “What do you think
yourself?”
Lola got up. She crossed the matted floor to
the decorous table and borrowed Batila’s comb. She
came back to sit on the side of the bed as she combed
her long, thick tresses. The simple act invested her
with a familiar domesticity. She looked like a little
girl, and Roddy was conscious of a tenderness towards
her. She looked so young and innocent sitting there,
placidly arranging her hair.
“Do you really care for me, Lola?” he asked.
“Roddy, dear! Of course I do. I loved you
always, but you had no eyes for me. Would any
girl do what I’ve done if she didn’t love you?”
Roddy considered that. After all, what was the
difference between them? He had had the advantages
of more education, travel—that was all. And the
thought that another girl valued the love Daphne
rejected was balm to the bitter smart. Perhaps in
Lola’s arms he would forget Daphne and all that
she had meant. Perhaps this strange allure Lola had
always held for him was love. There were so many
different ways of love.
Roddy put up a hand and caught her slim brown
one. She looked down, smiling at him.
“I think the best thing we can do now is to get
married, Lola!” he said soberly. “I owe it to you—
perhaps we’ll be happy.”
“Batila was right,” said Lola to Lola’s dark soul;
“She knew him through and through. She said he
would marry me if I threw myself in his way. I shall
be lady of Ruvia.”
Triumph sang in her —but outwardly she showed
hesitancy.
“Your father would never let you marry me,
Roddy,” she said. “He wants you to marry a white
girl— not one like me.”
Roddy took fire, as she knew he would.
“Damnation, Lola! Do you think I’m a child?
I’ll marry whom I please—the old man doesn’t own
me body and soul.”
“Ah, but you’re his son, the heir to Ruvia,” said
Lola shrewdly. “He won’t let you.”
“Will you marry me?” repeated Roddy,
exasperated.
Lola kissed him.
Mrs. Bennett, that cheerful pagan, was aghast,
shocked, thrilled, secretly triumphant, all in a breath.
“Oh, but you were a wicked, wicked girl, Lola,”
she said. “To behave in such a way. You’ve been
brought up in a Christian home, and this is what you
do. That immoral old Batila—she’s nothing but a
savage ; I shouldn’t have let you stay with her. You’ve
got no dress —how can you have a wedding? That
dreadful Batila! I’m heartbroken, ashamed to lift
my head. Roddy, you’ll have to see the missionary
now, at once. I wonder how long it would take
me to run up that white silk—what a blessing I
bought it! You should both be thoroughly ashamed
of yourselves—letting that wicked old woman in-
fluence you. She’s up to no good—of that I’m
certain.”
Out of the swift happening of that day one or
two incidents stood out clear and vivid to Rod, seem-
ing for the little space they endured to be invested
with a quality of timelessness and calm in the midst
of hurried activity. His sudden marriage was one.
Flamboyant trees were red outside the litttle
austere study in which the missionary married them.
It was a hot, still day; and from the open window
one could look down on Valoa, amid its mango-trees
and palms, dazzling in the sun. One looked down
on the yellow beach and the high green tide ; looked
out to the purple rim of ocean on which rose neigh-
boring islands. Roddy, standing there, felt the Islands
were at last claiming him for ever ; he had done now
with other lands he loved for good. Well, there were
worse places.
What was the good of desiring the unattainable?
He looked at Lola, alluring in the bridal white her
mother had contrived for her ; at Mrs. Bennett, in-
clined now to be tearful and somewhat apprehensive
now that all was irrevocably over; at the mis-
sionary’s frankly curious wife. It was over. Lola
was his wife.
Some latent measure of caution sent Roddy back
alone to Ruvia. He knew his father would take such
a marriage as his had been bitterly hard. To what
extreme his anger would drive him he did not know ;
but he reckoned the older man would eventually make
the best of what he would frankly denounce as a
“damned bad bargain.” There would be anger and
a white-hot flood of scathing words, but, at bottom,
perhaps his father would realise that he was at last
inevitably anchored in Fiji. And Lola was a
favorite of his ; he liked spirited, pretty women.
But Roddy was yet to learn that amused liking
was one thing and welcoming a new member into
one’s family circle another. Anyway, Roddy didn’t
much care how things went; let the old man rage if he
liked ; he’d come round in his own good time, and,
in any case, it was his lookout and not his father’s.
And the old man had done the same thing himself:
married a girl of mixed blood —two of them, in fact —
and started all the trouble.
Compunction stirred in him as he brought the
launch up to the steps beside the long black wharf.
There was his father waiting to meet him, immacu-
late in his white wear (he was beginning to take him-
self rather seriously as a sort of “Lord of the Isle,”
dressed the part and swaggered a little). Poor old
chap! This would take some of the swank out of
him ; he wouldn’t tell him just yet. But it would
have to be done —and soon. News got round with
uncanny speed in the district.
“I looked out for you yesterday, Rod,” remarked
his father. “What kept you? Did you fix up that
matter with Clark at the store?”
“Oh, that! Yes. He’ll meet you half-way.”
“Good! That's off my mind. Oh, well, come
up to the house. We can leave this to the boys.
Was there any mail over there? We sighted a cutter
going up apparently from Levuka.”
At the house, with Elena’s dark eyes on him and
the girls with their demands for commissions he had
forgotten to carry out, Rod felt apprehension. It
wasn’t as easy to break the news to his father as he
had imagined it would be. But it had to be done.
At last, when he and his father were alone, he did it.
He never forgot the look that came over his
father’s face when he realised what he was being told.
Incredulity, anger, hurt were all in it, but blind rage
was strongest. He looked as if he were going to
thunder out his passion, but with an effort of will
“Your father would never
let you marry me, Roddy.”
he checked himself, and waited grimly till the young
man finished his floundering explanation.
Then —
“So you’re married, eh!” said Laurence, deadly
calm. “Married to that loose dark bitch. By God,
Roddy, you’ve brought me low. That sly piece”
“Hold hard, dad,” said Rod, his own quick
temper flaring now. “Lola’s my wife. I’ll trouble you
to remember that.”
“To hell with you and your damned wife! ”
blazed the old man, suddenly losing control of him-
self. “You’ll not bring her here—don’t think that.
You can both go—you and your ——. I’ve done
with you, Rod, done with you for good. You can get
off the island as soon as you please.”
“I’ll do that,” flashed Rod. “I’m damned sorry
I ever came back to it.”
“No more sorry than I am,” retorted Laurence.
“I hoped too much of you ; I should have known how
you’d serve me.”
Roddy was suddenly tired of it all —the sordid
situation, the furious face of the passionate, thwarted
old man. He hated ugliness, scenes—they were
anathema to his beauty-loving nature. In a percep-
tive instant he saw that the old days he loved were
certainly doomed. Lola and he had mentally nothing
in common; he shrugged, weary of it all.
“Have your own way, dad,” he said in so cold
and changed a tone that his raving father stopped
his furious invective and looked at him in astonish-
ment. “I’ll get out of it—l’ll not trouble you again
whether I sink or swim. If you let me have the
launch, I’ll go back to Valoa to-night and see what
I can do for myself. I’ll have my clothes packed and
be off. We’ve said too much, both of us. I’m sorry
if I’ve wrecked your plans, but, after all, my life is
my own to live in my own way.”
Anger and chagrin held the old man speechless.
He hadn’t meant all he said ; nor did he want to cut
Rod off. But he was too stiff-necked to give in—let
the boy go and find out how difficult it was to stand
on his own feet, saddled, as he was, with an undesir-
able wife. He turned away.
“Please yourself,” he said curtly. “Dick can run
you over and come back with the launch. And
neither you nor that black of yours is to set foot
on Ruvia again. You understand?”
“Very clearly,” said Rod, and left his father to
rage up and down like a man possessed. Roddy him-
self felt as if the solid ground had been cut away from
under his feet. And he hadn’t the remotest idea of
how he was going to get a living for himself and Lola.
Elena was guarded, cool.
“Perhaps your father will come round later,”
she said, non-committally. “I must say you were
very foolish, Roddy. I thought it was Daphne Eliot
you admired.”
He felt the steel was bared at last.
Ruve and Vivien, awed, half in the dark, wept.
Roddy had made brilliance and laughter in the home-
stead ; they felt as if that gay insouciance went with
him. And it all seemed to have happened so swiftly
and inevitably. Vivien, indeed, was for flying to her
father to coax him into a softer mood, but her
mother, suddenly fierce, turned on her.
“Keep out of it,” she said. “You’ll make things
worse if you meddle. I forbid you to interfere. This
is between your father and Roddy. It’s no one
else’s business.”
“Mother,” said Vivien, tense. “I believe you
want Roddy to go.”
Elena smiled.
“You know so much, don’t you? I think it will
right itself, this quarrel, if other people”—her dark
glance swept Ruve and her mutinous daughter—“keep
out of it.”
An hour later Roddy had gone,
and a blankness settled down on the
house that was long in lifting.
“But how terrible, Roddy,” cried
Adela. “Indeed, I can’t forgive that
father of yours. What right has he,
of all people, to be so bitter?”
Roddy was silent; he was averse
to discussing his stubborn father with
Mrs. Bennett. But Lola struck in with
a flash of malice:
“It’s not because Rod married
without his father’s knowing it—it’s
because he married me. Horrid old
man! I’m not good enough for him.
I hate the old wretch!”
“Leave my father out of it,” Rod
said sharply. “After all, it’s no one’s
business but his and mine.”
“And mine,” pouted Lola. “What
are we going to do?”
That was the problem. There
was nothing in Valoa for one of
Roddy’s type. Mrs. Bennett came to
the rescue by writing to a brother-in-
law in Levuka. A place was found
for Roddy in a Levuka store ; and,
not too enthusiastically, Rod went
down by cutter to start work. Lola was to
follow within the month.
Levuka began for Roddy a new phase
of life. To begin with, he was thrown
entirely on his own resources, as he had
never been before in the whole course of
his existence. He had a wife to keep, and
he found himself in an entirely different
environment.
Money, which had hitherto been
plentiful, now became something which
took hard earning, and Lola apparently did
not know its value, for she spent what she
(Continued on page 50.)


EVERY note
AS THE Jfatlvt PLAYS IT.
Strombera
•Carlson
Chromo -phonic RADIO
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Will ijou see their
happiness with Pride?
NA\ W
Picture a family re-union in
days of the future . . the happy
atmosphere of success . . your
children grown up . . fulfil-
ment of your hopes. Education
and the finer things of life
which financial stability makes
possible, can be secured by
Insurance with this Company.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T .°
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
R. Y. PERKINS, General Manager.
A Whimsical Essay by a Disillusioned Devotee:-
RUMINATIONS
OF AN EX
ROCJ-FISHERMAN
BY LES ROBINSON
THE first thing to do, unless you’ve
bought some —in which case the
chances are that it will prove unsuit-
able —is to get bait. Perhaps you didn’t
think, before leaving home, to find out
from the morning paper whether the tide
was likely to be high or low by the time
you got wherever you intended going.
If, being a born haphazardist, you
made no inquiries about it at all, you are
almost sure to find, by way of a reminder
that inconvenience occurs with greater
regularity as a result of lack of fore-
sight, and even in spite of it, than any-
thing even remotely beneficial, that the
tide is abnormally high. And if, as you
contemplate from afar your submerged
fishing-spot and realise that six hours or
so will have to elapse before you can
safely occupy it or even collect bait, you
feel annoyed with everything and every-
body, yourself included, and have half a
mind to take the next train, tram or
motor-bus back home (a decision, by the
way, that would
save you a great
deal of discomfort
and fatigue), the
correct and only
conclusion to
arrive at will be
that you are not a
confirmed roc k-
fisherman.
For what' are
six hours or so to
that most patient
and stoical o f
mortals, accus-
tomed as he is to spend a whole day, or
even a week, untangling his line, repair-
ing a rod or waiting for a bite?
One of the best baits to use when fresh
is, of course, “cungevoi,” or “cungeboi.”
When not fresh, it is one of the worst.
In fact, seagulls and crabs have been
known to faint when getting a whiff of
it —let alone human beings. If you
should happen to see a seagull flying
erratically, as though a bit dizzy, and
holding its beak with one claw, or a crab
endeavoring, in a dazed but desperate
kind of way, to deflate and hose itself
out well with salt water before venturing
to breathe freely again, you will not be
far astray in surmising that they have
just emerged, or are still trying to
Diagram showing effect of “cungy” upon
marine life.
emerge, from a stench-zone, its foetid
centre and cause being putrid “cungy”
some inconsiderate rock-fisherman has
left lying about.
Only one living thing, apparently—a
certain species of seashore fly—is able
to withstand that odor. Not content
merely with withstanding, the loathsome
creature actually luxuriates, wallows,
revels in it. The more putrescent the
“cungy” the more this ignominious insect
becomes exhilarated. It is, in fact, what
is best described as a dipso-stench-
maniac.
Rock-fishermen, crouching in damp
caves to avoid being struck by lightning,
waiting for the sea or their wives to be-
come calmer or for tides to come in or
go out, will argue interminably as to
whether “cungevoi” or “cungeboi” is
the correct name of this succulent
rock-bait. They none of them, how-
ever, ever think of using either word
in its entirety, the abbreviation “cungy”
being considered
quite sufficient,
which only goes to
prove that a
good or bad argu-
ment needs no
justification.
The thing you
attempt to drag
“cungy” off the
rocks with re-
sembles Neptune’s
trident, except
that, instead of
prongs, it ends in
hooks ; and don’t be surprised, as, you
wade out with it to the edge of a
reef over which the waves are breaking,
your shirt and whiskers flapping behind
you in the breeze, if you seem to be
attracting quite a lot of attention. It will
be thought, you may not inaccurately
surmise, that you belong to some freak
sect or are acting for the pictures.
Thrusting the hooks under a mass of
“cungy” that looks like some horrid and
malignant disease the reef-edge is suffer-
ing from, you tug with might and main,
and, as likely as not, in vain. Then,
dodging large waves that keep on
threatening to overwhelm you, you keep
on wrenching and tugging. Perhaps, in
the long run, and sopping wet, you suc-
ceed in dislodging a lump, not nearly
such a large one as you hoped or in-
tended. After that, returning to dry land
with it, you look for a nice smooth rock
on which to uncoil your line. Not being
able to find one, you end by laying the
coils just anywhere.
When you think they amount to
about eighty straight yards or so, you
put a neck and breast of “cungy” on
the hook, and, whirling it and
the sinker round your head a few times,
you suddenly release your grasp and
let the ensemble soar seaward. It
soars about twenty feet seaward and
then comes hurtling back, nearly knock-
ing your brains out, whereupon you
discover that the line has caught on
something.
YOU will make this discovery with
exasperating frequency unless you are
an accomplished rock-fisherman ; and you
will continue to make it quite often, no
matter how skilful you become. In
about a quarter of an hour, or even less,
depending on how much per-
spicacity you possess, you will
begin to realise that, if your
surroundings had been specially
designed for the purpose of
frustrating attempts to utilise
them for fishing purposes, they
could not succeed more often.
You will invariably come to
the conclusion, also, that there
are wilful tangles, as well as
those due to rash assumptions
on your part regarding the
perfect lay-out of the line and
unlikelihood of anything happening to
cause them. Although the expert who
sold it to you said that rock-fishermen
preferred that kind of line to all others,
it seems positively to hate the idea of
getting wet, and to be most ingenious,
ably assisted by barnacles, seaweed and
a boisterous breeze, in frustrating your
ceaseless efforts to hurl it into the sea.
Successful, perhaps, at last, if you are
as persistent as the small bait-snatchers
the sea seems to contain in greater quan-
tity' than anything large and unwary
enough to be caught on a medium-sized
hook, except impediments of one kind
and another —immovable and unavoid-
able for the most part —to rock-fishing,
you can now for a while, no longer hav-
ing to give your undivided attention to
the line, its attachments and hindrances,
light your pipe and sit and gaze about
you.
If the rocks should happen to be
wet, you will do your gazing on foot.
If, on the other hand, you at all resemble
a confirmed rock-fisherman, most of
your gazing will be of the inward kind ;
that is to say, you will merely
ruminate. Rock-fishermen do
a lot of ruminating. There
is something about the am-
phibious, fatiguing, hazard-
ous and futile pastime or vice
that induces it. Only for
such frequent interruptions as
getting bait, tangles out, their
billies to boil, their pipes to
light, hauling their lines in
and throwing them out again,
there is, in fact, no doubt
whatever that they would
nearly all be whole-time in-
stead of only part-time
ruminators.
Crabs do a lot of ruminating, too,
especially in the deeper crevices, where
rock-fishermen and other enemies of theirs
find it difficult to reach them. And so
A bit dizzy.
Fisherman studying
prospects.
do seagulls. One of the things you can-
not fail to notice in wakeful rock-fishing
moments is the incoherent behavior of
certain crack-brained seabirds. Instead
of proceeding from one unimportant
destination to another in a leisured
manner suited to their enervating
environment, and as you would expect,
considering that they have nothing in
particular to do and oceans of time in
which to do it, these feathered futilists,
pursuers of chimeras or believers in
speed for its own nonsensical sake no
sooner alight anywhere than, twitching
their heads about in the most eccentric
fashion and gazing at one another inquir-
ingly, as though wondering what they
alighted for and why, they dash off again,
at a signal from their leader, in the
opposite or any other direction, uttering
incessantly shrill, staccato, questioning
and unanswered, perhaps because unan-
swerable, cries. Dotterels, I believe they
are called, and there is something about
the very sound of the word that impairs
belief in their sanity.
T HEN there are the gannets.
* These exceedingly large sea-
birds spend the day falling
beak downwards, sometimes
from a great height, their idea
in so doing being, presumably,
to impale fish. There is, how-
ever, nothing fish hate more
than being impaled, and to
avoid this uncomfortable form
of demise they invariably en-
deavor to be somewhere else
when the gannet hits the place
where it thought they would be when,
following its beak, it got there. Countless
misses, owing to fish being so well aware
what these sudden descents portend, in
no way discourage the gannet. If at first,
or all day, or even indefinitely, you don’t
succeed, try, try again appears to be its
motto.
Roused from such reveries by a wave
breaking over you or, more alarmingly
maybe, by small boys throwing stones
and dropping unsaleable bottles over the
cliff-edge—a favorite pastime, and one
that adds nastily to the already incon-
veniently numerous foot-hazards rock-
fishermen, though not always smilingly
or in silence, put up with—you decide,
perhaps, that you will haul in your line
and have lunch. You had been wonder-
ing, doubtless, why it had remained for
so long just where you wanted it to, well
out in deep water, as all your previous
hopes of its doing so were frustrated by
monstrous waves. The mystery, however,
is now explained. You find that your
hook or sinker —both, very likely—has
a firm grip of this island continent; seems
as though cemented to it, in
fact.
You lean back and haul
with all your might, imagin-
ing, perhaps, that portion of
the continent will give way.
The line, however, nearly
always snaps instead, not
near the hook and sinker,
but well up your end, which
means, you will probably
find, that you have said
good-bye to fully half of it.
If you are an optimist or a
poor judge of tensile stresses,
and were therefore not ex-
pecting it to break like that.
you are likely to find yourself on the
broad of your back, which the by-
standers, if there happen to be any, seem
to think is a huge joke. By you, however.


sOV>
cw
aOi'W
1
6^
o^
c
***
«4
r^e
H°
rtf
me*
t tvtO
r,®
'JJS 5 ,
cw-
■pcV
st> c
iVi e
ow
live
o'*
OC'
\\’A
\CO
*v>
ro
ft
Jo
D
ft
>
ft
m
m
>
m
g**&*
o«i
OU*
•c\j*s
With this announcement, the Pep-
sodent Company invite you to try
Pepsodent Toothpaste'in a new and
larger tube at the same price as
before. To-day Pepsodent stands as
an example of the finest scientific
toothpaste modern science can pro-
duce. Pepsodent is famous for
removing dingy film, that sticky
germ-laden coating that stains teeth
and encourages decay. Only
recently in scientific tests Pep-
sodent proved the least ab-
rasive, and therefore safest, of
15 leading toothpastes.
And now we have found a way
to give you Pepsodent at a
greater saving. New processes
have cut costs and we.are pass-
ing the saving on to you. The
identical time-proved
Pepsodent is ready for
you with the tube
alone changed and the
quantity increased.
Chemists are selling
the new larger tubes at
no increase in price.
PEPSODENT
N 1361
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING TOOTHPASTE—NO IT IN LARGER TUBES
\
CJ
(‘
WHATEVER your problems in the realms of Credit
and Finance may be, the National Bank is always
willing to help solve them. Years of experience, plus
the benefits resulting from a world-wide organization,
make The National Bank familiar with these problems,
and competent to proffer advice on them. A few
minutes’ discussion may, quite easily, provide a
solution and save a great deal in time, worry, and money.
BANK
Sffi]
Branches Throughout Australia
alulae.
especially if lumbago happens to be
one of your chronic ailments, their mirth
is regarded as unseemly. It indicates
beyond disproof that they are egregious
louts; persons, in other words, whose
upbringing has been the worst con-
ceivable.
Limpingly, mumpishly and muttering
to yourself, you adjourn for your mid-
day repast, and, though assured, as you
are bound to be, by some of your fellow-
“rockhoppers” that tea made with the
allegedly fresh water —though it seems to
you to have a
slightly peculiar
taste trickling in
places down the
cliff-face from some
cowish, or for other
reasons none too
sanitary, swamp up
above, and boiled
over that smokiest
of all fires, a drift-
wood one, is superior
to the home-brewed
article, it is most
improbable that you
will agree with them.
«D OUND the
rugged rocks
the ragged rascals
ran their rural race”
(old - time sobriety
test). It wasn’t
round these rocks,
though. The only
running is done by
crabs and water-rats
when they hear a
rock-fisherman com-
ing. That hardy and
intrepid individual
(the confirmed and
incurable devotee of the “sport,” not,
of course, the mere novice) proceeds
to one fishing-spot from another by leap-
ing from rock to rock like a chamois ;
by crawling on hands and knees along
what are aptly termed “goat-tracks” ; or
by clinging precariously to slight indenta-
tions in cliff-ledges known as “hand- and
toe-holds.”
For weeks after a day’s rock-fishing
you are likely to be plagued by an
abominable, inescapable and elusive,
Luncheon adjournment.
though by no means faint, stench which,
more than anywhere else, seems at its
worst where it will cause the maximum
of inconvenience; that is to say, in your
bedroom. There is a dead rat about
the place somewhere, you not improbably
conclude, and in your spare moments
you move the furniture and rummage
exhaustively. It transpires finally that
the cause of the vile effluvium is a piece
of decaying “cungy” still impaled on the
now very rusty hook from which, in
your haste to scramble out of your
rugged surroundings
before dark, you
forgot to remove it.
How it came to get
behind the ward-
robe, the dressing-
table, the chest-of-
drawers or the other
unlikely place you
traced it to you
haven’t, of course,
the faintest idea.
To mark my re-
tirement from the
sport, I would appre-
ciate the insertion
of the following
heartfelt advertise-
ment :
FOR SALE-
FISHING OUTFIT,
COMPRISING
Umbrella (wave-
stained) fitted with
lightning - conduc-
tor.
First - aid requisites
(iodine bottle and
embrocation tin,
empty).
One hundred yards
assorted major and
minor tangles, the
former predomi-
nating.
Collection mixed sinkers—bolts and nuts lost
by railway and tramline changers predomi-
nating. . . , . .
Guide to rock-fishing (inaccurate), bound in
fishskin ( the skin off one the author
bought), with marginal annotations, assev-
erations and contradictions, in. pencil, by
present owner. (N. 8.: Constant perusal
of this volume will make no difference.)
Model, plasticene (inaccurate), of the coastline
(took rock-fisherman, now in Calla?t Park,
half a lifetime to make), showing alleged
best fishing spots, alleged dry caves, alleged
fresh-water seepages and dripulets. You
will need a lorry to take this away with
you.
A Convincing Sketch on an Unusual Note:-
THE HYPNOTIST.
BY C. KELLY.
LUKE CASTON stood at' the door of
his shop and stared at the hoarding
opposite, where, beneath a wide blue
sky, a black-and-white liner rose on
swelling sea and white sea-birds hung
above a group of picture-book palms.
His gaze shifted to the street, crowded
with vehicles moving in the direction of
the showground for the opening of the
annual show, then back again to the
poster, and he sighed impatiently.
He was a man who liked to see his
way clear before him, and he was
worried by a problem upon the solu-
tion of which the future course of his
life would depend. He was forty-three,
and he found himself a sick man; the
doctor’s words had been definite.
“You’re not going to die. Apart from
this trouble you’re a perfectly healthy
man, but you must get away from all
business worries for six months —after
that, we’ll see.”
He had always wanted to travel. The
ambition to do so had been the driving
force that had placed him, in his early
thirties, among the solid businessmen of
his town. That was when he had first
met Eileen, and the idea had been lost,
or, as it now appeared, sidetracked, in
the new order of things that her presence
in the town had brought into his life.
The doctor’s words seemed to have
given fresh strength to his old inclina-
tions, and he had found himself, as he
left the surgery, thinking longingly of far
horizons. His body and spirit alike
yearned for change. He pictured him-
self leaning over a ship’s rail and look-
ing down into cool, translucent depths
below, his mind untroubled by thoughts
of time and work.
The thing had seemed simple enough
of achievement when he had remem-
bered that his insurance fell due shortly,
and that it would amply cover the cost
of a leisurely trip to some of the places
he had always
wanted to see ; Cey-
lon, perhaps, or
Singapore.
It had not seemed
so easy after he had
talked with Eileen.
Her lovely eyes had
been full of sym-
pathy and tender-
ness, and she had
taken his head upon
her breast and cried
a little, stroking his
face with her soft fingers. She had been
firmly insistent that he should follow out
the doctor’s orders to the letter. He
was not to think of her, for whom he
had already done too much. They had
discussed the projected trip and the
points for and against the various holi-
day routes.
It was just before he left her that he
had learned of Owen Ferry’s offer to
Eileen of an excellent avenue for the
investment of a sizable sum. She had
pushed her sleeves back, delicately, from
her wrists, with a graceful movement
that he had learned to look for. She
had extraordinarily attractive hands —
small, white and beautifully kept, with
a round and supple wrist —and she had
said with mock solemnity:
“Provision for my declining years!”
and had then added, laughing, “So
stupid'of the man! As if I would have
that huge sum!”
She had those large, dark-blue eyes
that darken, rather than fade, with age.
Expressive eyes. Equally attractive when
lit with laughter or drenched with sym-
pathy. Looking at her, he wanted to
say, as he had said so many times during
the past fifteen years, “I’ll attend to
it for you, Eileen,” and to see her laugh-
ing face glow and then soften into an
expression of tender gratitude.
He had been turning the matter over
in his mind ever since, and he found
himself more and more fired with the
desire to help Eileen to financial security,
although if he did so he would have to
forego his dream of an ocean holiday.
HE stepped into his shop to get his hat
and to leave word with his assistant,
Bert More, that he was leaving for the
showground. A good man, Bert —just
the fellow to put in charge of the business,
whether he left the town or stayed
quietly at home, taking things easy for
a while. Somehow he could not see the
latter plan working happily for him. To


RHEUMATISM
Joints Stiff, Swollen and Painful
If your joints are stiff, swollen and filled
with pain, you are so badly handicapped
that you are little better than a prisoner or
a slave. You cannot be a success either
socially or commercially, and you certainly
cannot enjoy life as you should. You will
find it hard to believe that
your suffering is unneces-
sary, but surely you will be
willing to make an effort to
get well, and your effort will
not be in vain if you get a
box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist
and take them as directed.
No doubt you have already tried all sorts
of things—embrocations, liniments, oils,
medicated baths, purgative
salts —and perhaps you are
disappointed, and disgusted
as well, because
they have failed
to give you the
relief you desire,
but, just for one
week, forget your
d i s appointments,
and decide that
you will give
De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills
a fair trial.
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC,"ACID
mm
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitfs Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see and
feel and know for certain that they
must do you good.
Throughout your future life you will be
glad if you do this, because De Witt’s Pills
never disappoint, and you can take them
with absolute confidence in their ability to
do you good.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of
the limbs, swollen feet or
ankles, foul breath, scalding
pain, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede
attacks of Rheumatism,
Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or serious
Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting
a box of De Witt’s Pills from the- chemist
and taking them as directed.
They cost only 3/6, or the larger size,
containing 2\ times the quantity, 6/6. All
chemists sell them in the blue, white and
gold boxes, so that you will have no diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies. You will derive
certain benefit from the first dose, and as
you continue, the pain and stiffness will
leave your limbs and joints, and in a very
short time you will fully regain your health
and strength. These results have been
obtained by many thousands of men and
women who were tortured by rheumatism
and joint pains. Be persuaded to do as
they did—take
m
De Witt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
be in the town, and not of it. Gradually
to fall out of the circle of business
friends whose belief in his integrity and
whose respect for his business acumen
meant a lot in his life ; worst of all, to be
forgotten by Eileen.
There had been moments in the
muddle of conflicting thoughts when he
had harbored black doubts regarding
Eileen’s intentions. Was she trying for
a big clean-up with the intention of dis-
carding him afterwards? He had put the
thought aside as unworthy of himself
and of her.
The road stretched grey and uninvit-
ingly hot after it left the shade of
the shop-awnings, but he took it in
preference to the overcrowded buses.
They would be filled with a good-
natured, sweating crowd of men and
women and skylarking youths. And
children. Luke liked children ; he got on
well with them, and he would have asked
for nothing better than to be married to
Eileen and to have a family to strive
for. He pulled himself up sharply.
Detestable thing, he thought, self-pity!
He plodded on soberly through the
heat, nodding quiet greetings to occu-
pants of verandahs and house-yards who
called out cheerfully to him as he passed.
He liked attention. It made him feel
that he was a man of consideration,
approved by his fellows.
IT was on such a day as this that his
cousin Jeffrey had brought his new
wife home, and she had stepped upon
the platform, looking cool and unruffled
after the long train journey. Luke
chuckled inwardly as he remembered
how she had shocked the behind-the-
times town with her short dresses and
bobbed hair. But she had got away
with it. Undeniably, she could wear
clothes that looked ridiculous on other
women.
She had got away with so much more,
for that matter. When the mine in
which Jeffrey Barlow served as a time-
keeper had closed down, she had wangled
a job for him from old Mackintosh, the
manager of Number Three. It was dur-
ing Jeffrey’s period of enforced idleness
that they had gone to live in Luke’s new
house, rent free. It pleased him to think
that they still continued to do so, even
though, through Eileen’s clever manipu-
lation, Jeffrey had risen to be head clerk.
Queer chap, Jeffrey, Luke thought.
His bleached-looking hair and pale eyes
gave him a permanently exhausted look.
Very quiet, he was, and never gave any
indication of his private thoughts about
Eileen’s friendship with Luke.
He remembered his own discomfiture
when faced with the knowledge of his
interest in his cousin’s wife. He had
felt mean and contemptible, apologetic
towards Jeffrey, whom he liked. He had
begged Eileen to get a divorce and
marry him, but she had persuaded him
that it was better not. She could not
bear the thought of hurting Jeffrey, who
had such faith in her. Well, a man was
forced to reconstruct his views in accor-
dance with the chances of his life!
HE had believed that it needed mar-
riage and children to bind a man
irrevocably to one woman, but he had
found himself mistaken. To some
women, perhaps, but not to Eileen. The
strength of her personality attracted
women, too, as well as men. They began
by being suspicious of her, or jealous,
and ended by eating out of her hand.
It had always amused him to watch
her social progress, for she had early
penetrated the circle held by the families
of bank officials and professional people.
He had had a few uncomfortable
moments about that, too.
It was during the lockout, and old
Doctor Macleod had been carrying a
heavy load, with his two sons at the
uni. and most of his patients on the
grass. Luke had tided him over a
special difficulty by lending him money,
and for some reason he had not wanted
the matter talked about. In a forgetful
moment he had told Eileen, and he
guessed that she had used the knowledge
as a lever. Anyhow, it was then that she
had been taken up by the doctor’s
family. Queer sense of honor, women
had, where their personal ambitions
were concerned! Even superior women
like Eileen.
She was firmly established among
them now, and none of them could
hold a candle to her where clothes or
looks were concerned ; or nice manners.
He stopped to wipe the perspiration
off his face, and began to wish he had
gone by bus. He had lent Eileen his car
for the afternoon, because she was help-
ing to entertain the official visitors to
the show.
The car had been rather a slug. His
first intention had been to buy a cheap
runabout, but when he had mentioned
the matter Eileen had taken it for
granted that he had thought of a sedan,
and he had not liked to disappoint her.
Jeff had surprised them both by saying
that he had been saving up for a car
himself. He had planned it for a sur-
prise for Eileen, putting money away out
of his overtime and doing book-keeping
for business people. Eileen persuaded
Jeff to let her use the money to have the
house refurnished and decorated in the
modern manner instead.
He paused a moment before crossing
the road to mingle with the jostling,
noisy crowd at the showground gate.
The place would be a medley of heat,
dust and noise, for it was the lowest part
of the town, itself a heat-conserving
basin surrounded by low hills whose flat
tops, covered scantily with ringbarked
trees, gave the eyes no sense of rest or
coolness.
Inside the gates he paused, irresolute.
On the left side was a travel poster —
twin brother to the one opposite the
door of his shop; and before it was a
marquee where one could book one’s
ticket for ocean trips. On the right was
a lane of souvenir sellers and while-you-
wait photographers, at the nearest of
which an awkward-looking boy was try-
ing to persuade a pretty girl to have her
likeness taken with him. He passed
them and began an aimless tour of the
grounds. A couple of hours later, when
he passed near the grandstand, he saw
Eileen. The essence of sophisticated
smartness, she appeared to be holding
her own among the elite, and was
receiving marked attention from the fat
Parliamentarian who had graced the
show with his presence. She had turned
her face away in addressing the visitor,
but he would have known her at twice
the distance.
IN avoiding a trotting turnout about to
enter the ring, he presently found him-
self close to one of the dancing shows.
He was about to move off, when his
attention was taken by a woman who
came out of the tent. She was holding
the canvas flap for half a dozen girls to
pass out, and there was something in
the pose of her hands and the gesture
with which she lifted them that
reminded him sharply of Eileen. She
was about the same age and not unlike
her in figure. It annoyed, while it in-
trigued him, to note these things, for
she was rather shop-worn and soiled-
looking. He felt that her eyes, which
were turned away, would be warmly blue
and of compelling beauty.
The girls mounted the platform and
began to dance. They were a coarse-
looking lot in abbreviated trunks and
brassieres, with inches of unattractive
skin showing between. He noted that
the girl at the end had bleached hair
and pale eyes like Jeffrey Barlow.
When the dancing stopped, the woman
who was so indecently like Eileen stepped
up beside the dancers, and the girl at
the end who had been looking straight
ahead with a sort of weary indifference
turned, like an automatom, towards her.
She pushed back her sleeves with a
graceful wrist-movement and began
making passes before the girl’s face.
When the girl’s head fell forward upon
her chest and her eyes closed, Luke
thought she looked more than ever like
his cousin Jeffrey.
Queer thoughts passed through his
head as he stood watching the per-
formance and listening to the woman
making a stock speech. He felt sud-
denly old and very sick. He wished to
go away, and found himself without the
power to do so. It was like looking on
at some spiteful burlesque in which all
the follies and weaknesses to which he
had blinded himself for years, and of
which he had believed the world to be
unaware, were cruelly shown.
The hypnotist was calling for volun-
teers for experiment, and some youths
behind him were daring one an-
other to go up. He had a weak feeling
that if the woman willed it he would go
forward, and the thought horrified him.
In a town like this, where ridicule was
the essence of humor, the thing would
never be forgotten!
He turned to leave, but the womav,
noticing his movement, turned her eyes
upon him, and under their compulsion
he found himself making for the plat-
form. At that moment one of the lads
from behind pushed himself forward
roughly ahead of him, and, stepping
upon the platform, turned his face to the
woman with a loutish grin.
Luke found himself upon the out-
skirts of the group, his mind a muddle
of conflicting thoughts. He was close
to the gates of the grounds, and the
committee was farewelling a party of
official visitors. Eileen was there, and
as the visitors departed she smiled
charmingly and signalled him to come
to her. He stood a moment, like one a
little unsure of himself, and shook his
head, as though freeing himself of
the remnants of a discomfiting dream;
then, turning away, he pushed purpose-
fully through the crowd and entered
the tent of the travel company.


HUMOR COMPETITION.
This competition closed on 31st
January. Over 400 entries were
received, comprising good, bad and
indifferent efforts. All yarns not
included in the last two classes will
be published.
Next Week:
“A MAGNETIC PERSONALITY,”
by
SIDNEY BELGRAVE.
©
Marks the important points
requiring ALEMITE LUBRI-
CATION: Wheel bearing,
water pump, cylinders, gear
box, clutch release bearing,
universal joints, chassis and
differential. "ALEMITE” is
the assurance of protection.
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
W 2
LEMSTE
‘not(jXeCtAJLj
Wheel Bearing
Particularly on cars equipped with
four-wheel brakes , Alemite Wheel
Bearing Lubricant is successful.
Millions of useful car-miles
are lost to motordom
yearly because of haphaz-
ard greasing instead of cor-
rect lubrication, whereas
performance, efficiency and
endurance of light and
heavy motor vehicles are
improved when the lubri-
cants and the system of
applying them are Alemite.
Alemitc Corporation
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address; ALMIT. • • Chicago
Full particulars from MR• KENNETH J. C. SMITH 9
Resident Manager , 554 George Street , Sydney , N. S. W,
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Etd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Etd., 894 Hay St., Pert It
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—B-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
• .
m
Uo£4
j .
I
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St.., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne.
Was It Theft?:-
A RAD NAME
BY B.L. FOGARTY.
PASELY is a thief.
He is no longer merely a reputed
thief. Twelve months ago he left a
clue behind him. Since then he has
passed through all the stages of capture,
trial, sentence and release. Last month,
having atone'd for his sins, he returned
home to plan new ones.
Perhaps you think you would not like
a thief in your town, but we know better.
Visitors come to us from towns where
there is no convict. We point to Pasely.
They say, “Oh! one place is like another.
We miss things at times, and we have our
suspicions.”
Our people smile. Pasely is “branded
goods.” We find that a recognised thief
can be very convenient at times.
Mrs. Johnson cleans and presses her
husband’s second-best suit. He sees it on
the clothes-line. She parcels it up and
sends it to her brother, hoping that it will
help him to get work. It has disappeared.
Her husband is furious. He will set
the police on Pasely and put him back
where he belongs.
“But the wife and family—how would
they live?” asks the tender-hearted wife.
There is a long discussion: Mr. is for
justice, Mrs. stands for mercy. Finally
Mrs. Johnson says, “After all, he is a
Digger, you know,” and the question is
settled. No action is taken. The husband
wears his best suit until he can afford
another, and thanks God for his wonder-
ful wife.
Young Tom Harris is in desperate need
of a few pounds. The horse that he in-
tended should provide them is beaten by
a nose. Then his bicycle is lost. Only
the last of these catastrophes is reported
to his father.
Mr. Harris appeals to the Law. Con-
stable Whelan searches the Pasely home,
questions Pasely at length, but reports
that he can find no evidence. Mr. Harris
buys the boy a new bicycle, and the
mental barometer by which he measures
police efficiency falls rapidly, coming to
rest many points below fair.
In these ways Pasely is gaining a repu-
tation for stowing loot to add to his status
of convicted thief. If he has any other
talent that might bring him notoriety he
sees no need to reveal it to the public.
After a visit by Whelan much laughter
is often heard in the Pasely home. Pasely
will copy the good constable’s Irish
accent. He will ask a question, and
shift his weight on to the other foot;
then he will twist his mouth and screw
up his eyes as he receives imaginary
answers.
Mrs. Pasely does not approve, but she
is soon laughing with the others. Some-
times he does the vicar visiting or the
vicar in the pulpit. Another time it
might be the doctor or the schoolmaster.
ONE evening as the eight-thirty train
arrives Pasely is on the platform. He
is looking at the centre of the train, but
his mind is recording that a side of bacon
is taken from the van and is being placed
on the station trolley.
He remembers that it is Friday night
as he sees the porter’s sweetheart getting
off. He is reflecting that the porter will
pull the trolley into the shed and go off
with his lady. He will unload it when
he comes back for the nine-forty up.
Pasely knows, however, that if he is
seen there the trolley will be unloaded
without delay and the goods locked up
as soon as the newly-arrived train leaves.
He is not seeking subtle compliments, so
he takes himself off.
Pasely has no plan yet. He does not
favor thieving from the railways. Depart-
mental methods of investigation are
more persistent than he cares for. Still,
he is very fond of bacon.
A heavy, egg-shaped man is sitting on
a box near the van. He, also, has
noticed the bacon. In four steps he
could walk over and see the label, but
he does not wish to seem interested.
He rises and moves down the plat-
form. Two patches on his trousers wink
at each other as he strolls slowly to the
gate. Barker is not even a reputed thief ;
but he has no regrets. He is modest
about his profession. Publicity has no
value for him. If Pasely gets all the
credit, he at least gets some of the goods,
and that satisfies him. Barker sighs at
the thought of the bacon, but he, too,
dreads the methods of the railway
department.
He plods on.
Pasely is not in
sight. That is good!
Sometimes he feels
that he might meet
Pasely on one of his
ventures. It gives
him some concern.
His knowledge of
Pasely is not equal
to Pasely’s knowledge of him.
Barker has travelled about a hundred
and fifty yards when he notices that a
street light is fading. It grows dimmer.
A twisted streak of red now indicates
where it was. Even that has gone. He
remembers that the last time it faded
like that there was no light all night.
Immediately another thought strikes
him.
Pasely has turned a corner and has gone
east about four hundred yards. When
the light fades he stops and goes back.
He reaches the corner and presses close
against the fence. A hedge grants him
cover while he peers around. Dimly
outlined, a queer shape can be seen. It
is hurrying towards him. He presses his
back against the fence and waits.
Presently a fat man with a burden comes
level with him and passes.
Pasely says “Ah!” It is enough ; the
other jumps forward, stumbles, picks
himself up and disappears. The bacon
remains.
Pasely picks it up and goes east again.
A timberyard lies next to the house
where he waited. At first he thinks of
hiding his loot and returning for it later.
The memory, however, of the fat man’s
flight reassures him. He smiles and
goes on.
Presently he comes to a corner, but
he is cautious. Setting his burden against a
gate-post, he goes forward to peer round.
The fat man has by this time recovered
from his fright and is stalking the other
to see who it is. Thus Pasely, returning
from the corner, gets a dim glimpse of
the bacon hurrying away.
This is not at all to his liking, but he
thinks of a plan and is strangely thrilled.
He darts down a lane and picks up a
private right-of-way that leads to the
timberyard. He dashes through and
arrives in the street ahead of his quarry.
When he hears his man coming he
walks into the middle of the road, strikes
a match and looks for something on the
ground. Only his boots are visible.
Pasely’s heart is glad. The bacon is
going east again. It must go round two
sides of a block to get into a road going
west. Thus he needs to walk only one
side of a block, while his burdened quariy
must toil round three. As a special
measure of precaution he stays where
he is for a while. He is enjoying some
of the thrill that an army leader feels
when he has a marauding party cut off
from its base.
BARKER has hurried round two sides
of the block and is going west again.
He is thanking his lucky star that the
man struck the match in time. What if
he had walked into him? He dislikes
the extra walking, but his thoughts are
pleasant. Luck is running with him.
He stops. There is someone talking
ahead of him. He recognises the voice
of the doctor. He will take a risk and
cross the road.
The doctor says “Good night, Mr.
Morgan,” and crosses in front of hiTh.
The doctor stands on the corner. Why?
Perhaps he has heard footsteps. It would
not do to be seen by the doctor. He
must go around another block.
In the next street he hears “Onward,
Christian Soldiers,” being sung softly. He
has to turn about. He is getting im-
patient. Why should all those people
be wandering about in the dark? he
wants to know. Perhaps someone is ill
at Morgan’s. He remembers hearing
about someone being ill. but he did not
bother to learn the name. That is it, he
decides. The vicar would be returning
this way. He must keep ahead of him
and go into the next street.
He feels that the venture is not going
well. It was only a, fifteen-minute job at
the beginning, yet after all his wander-
ing he is still fifteen minutes from home.
What if the lights came on? The
thought worries him. The burden is
getting heavy. The task of walking
quickly but softly is taking its toll of
the heavy man. The next street is a
crescent bearing away to the north-east.
This means extra walking, and he has
already had more than enough.
Then he remembers. There is a back
lane running west between the street he
is in and the next. He will get a clear
run there. Hopefully he turns into the
crescent. He proceeds more slowly ; the
job is well in hand.
As he passes the fourth house the gate
of the first snaps shut. Someone says
“Good night.” The roots of his hair
tingle. It is the voice of Constable
Whelan.
He hurries forward. He thinks of
prison, and is horrified. Prison discipline.
Prison food. Hard labor. His left eye
is smarting where a drop of sweat has
lodged, but he pays no heed.
The shoulder where the hand would
fall is not comfortable. He wants it to
shrink, but it seems to be reaching out
to welcome the blow. The temple of
Barker is divided against itself, and its
fall would seem to be but a matter of
seconds. He starts running on his toes,
praying that he will not stumble or col-
lide with anything.
He is nearing the lane. A peculiar
cough, unmistakably Whelan’s, sounds
almost behind him. He recognises the
back fence of Pasely’s place by the patch-
work of petrol-tins. Over goes the
burden while he charges on.
Presently he slows down and wipes his
forehead with his coat sleeve. He pauses
and listens. He is not being followed.
Phew! What a narrow escape! He
praises his quick wit and feels better.
Pasely’s position does not give him any
concern. He is amused and goes off
happy.
Pasely finds the bacon. He pulls off
the label. His face is beaming with
pleasure. He sets down his lantern and
chuckles. At last he stows the bacon
away and goes in. He is still chuckling..
Barker goes home and finds his wife
preparing for bed.
“Joe,” she says, “my brother sent us
a side of bacon by the eight-thirty. If
you get it first thing in the morning you
can have some for breakfast.”


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
A Selection of
MACMILLAN’S
3s. 6d. NOVELS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
By
HUGH WALPOLE
THE WOODEN HORSE
MR. PERRIN AND MR. TRAILL
THE PRELUDE TO ADVENTURE
FORTITUDE
MARADICK AT FORTY
THE DUCHESS OF WREXE
THE DARK FOREST
THE GREEN MIRROR
THE SECRET CITY
THE CAPTIVES
THE YOUNG ENCHANTED
THE CATHEDRAL
A MAN WITH RED HAIR
THE OLD LADIES
HARMER JOHN
WINTERSMOON
THE SILVER THORN
HANS FROST
THE THIRTEEN TRAVELLERS
JEREMY
JEREMY AND HAMLET
JEREMY AT CRALE
THE GOLDEN SCARECROW
ABOVE THE DARK CIRCUS
ALL SOULS’ NIGHT
By
RICHMAL CROMPTON
THE ODYSSEY OF
EUPHEMIA TRACY
MARRIAGE OF HERMIONE
PORTRAIT OF A FAMILY
THE HOLIDAY
By
CHARLES MORGAN
PORTRAIT IN A MIRROR
By
MAZO DE LA ROCHE
JALNA
WHITEOAKS
FINCH’S FORTUNE
DELIGHT
EXPLORERS OF THE DAWN
POSSESSION
LARK ASCENDING
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Constipation
and Colitis
Conquered by
Modern Medical
Science
Dr. F. de Courmelles, of the Paris
Society of Practising Physicians,
says "Good health results from
internal cleanliness/'
Constipation takes many forms —it gives rise to count-
less ailments. Most serious of these is colitis. The colon
becomes hard, strangulated, and encrusted with putre-
fying deposits. Modern foods, which never include
sufficient roughage to properly exercise the intestines,
make these troubles unavoidable unless precautions are
taken. Regular bowel movements are no protection —-
the colon walls have grown too weak to rid their folds
of the daily increasing addition of waste matter . . .
opening medicines only purge the lower end of the
colon, and extract essential vitality from the walls. Note
how liquid your faeces become after a severe dose of
ordinary laxative. Science, however, has now found a
sure and effective remedy in Coloseptic (Wayne’s Im-
proved Formula).
FREE-This
Absorbing
Book ■ • • • •
Mail coupon for
demonstration jar
of COLOSEPTIC
and receive, under
plain cover by re-
turn mail, a book
telling you all
about Autoxima.
This book is
FREE —so fill in
and mail the
coupon NOW!
Whole Family Benefits
Wellington, N.Z.
“/ have used COLOSEPTIC for some
time and without any exaggeration
whatsoever it is the finest medicine
obtainable for bowel troubles. There
are five in our family and we all use
it regularly. We have given up the
use of pills, paraffin oil, salts and
salines . . . It has given us all health
and vigour ...”
A.F.ffi
1 (Original of
this letter
' may be seen
at head
’office.)
CLIP OUT.
F 8
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book on
Autoxima in plain envelope. Also
send my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose
1/- in penny stamps.
i NAME
| ADDRESS.
COLOSEPTIC'S Vitalising Action
The clogged colon, which results from
the non-digestion of modern foods,
forms virulent poisons that seep into the
blood stream and attack every vital organ
in the body. This introduces a state of
autoxima, or self-poisoning. That is why
Dr. de Courmelles declares that a clean
Clogged Colon
colon is essential for perfect health.
Natives, eating natural foods, are
safe, but civilised people need the
protection that only Coloseptic can
give. It tones up the walls of the
colon, giving them back the power
to easily and naturally remove en-
crustations, it corrects acid condi-
tions and stimulates the action of
the pores of the skin, the respiratory
system, and the kidneys——the three
other important organs ■which eliminate poisons
from your system. Remove Constipation——the basic
cause of 95% of disease—drink Coloseptic.
Look at these two illustrations. One shows the
colon clogged and ineffective. It can no longer
absorb the essential body-building minerals from
the passing matter. It is powerless to eject putrefy-
ing waste. Nausea, dizziness, bloating, headaches
and stomach gas are some of the warning symptoms
that this partial constipation gives. Nine people
out of ten suffer. Colitis and similar serious com-
plaints must follow. Now look at the other illus-
tration. All danger is ended—the colon has been
cleaned by Coloseptic. And autoxima,
the dread self-poisoning -which re-
sults from a clogged colon, and
which undermines all your functions,
has been banished. Take Coloseptic ,
put an end to constipation, avoid the
danger of serious troubles like
colitis, diseases of malnutrition,
weakness, exhaustion, emaciation,
etc. You’ll know real health again
. • . you’ll feel fit . • . you’ll be well.
Unclogged Colon
DRINK
Coloseptic
(WAYNE'S IMPROVED » F, 0 R M U LA)
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., 26 O'Connell St., Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.W.S.: A bit technical, isn’t it? W.R.:
Reads like an indifferent homily in terribly
halting verse M.N.: Just an exercise in
rhyme, and rather a stilted one... .Isabelle:
“A Lament” is truly lamentable... .M.D.M.:
It got our goat Puritan: Quite commend-
able sentiments, but you make no mistake
when you refer to your effusion as doggerel.
J.D.: The outback weather prophet with
his “I told you so” is a very old friend
J.W.: If you regard those as “poems” you
have a lot to learn... .EJ.G.: The sort of
yarn that needs a David McKee Wright to tell.
Z.V.W.: Neither the canine-dictatorship
yarn nor the one about the supposed rich
uncle made the grade... .C.F.: Put together
in somewhat muddled fashion... .8.G.: Tenth-
rate humor L.V.K.: Too commonplace for
even a flappers’ sheet... .G.S.C.: A hackneyed
plot, and told without inspiration N.C.:
Not worth even cutting down to a paragraph.
... .D.V.O’N.: One of the most familiar of
the masquerade plots P.N.: Crudely con-
structed L.M.: “A Darn Dull Day” is a
darn dull yarn R.D.C.: Just another quiet
hero licking the village bully A.E.K.: A
drab effort L.A.M.: It creaked every inch
of the way E.J.S.: An insignificant peg
to hang a yarn on M.S.: We thought that
everyone was awake to that trick R.H.L.:
Your yarn of trickery is also encrusted with
barnacles C.McE.: Try again. It’s a really
good ending, but the opening verses are too
far-fetched, and the lapse into free verse spoils
the effect you should aim at H.K.A.:
There’s a grin in it, but you should have
found a better rhyme for “appendix”
W-K.McC.: An unstimulating song, even for
a tramp M.K.8.: Prosaic, not to say prosy.
. ...E.R.M.: “The Prodigal” is homeward
bound W.D.F.: “Under Below” came
very close. So did “Restoration” D.T.F.:
Too hysterical H. 8.: Not far off A.C.:
You have allowed the unreality of your charac-
ters to run away with you F.T.: Well,
after all, one Aloysius has become Prime
Minister of Australia W.W.: It’s a sad
tale, but it draws no tears G. 1.5.: The
gentleman on whose statements your skit is
based is practically unknown outside N.S.W.
. ...W.S.: Take it on again... .R.8.N.: Not
enough humor R.8.P.: Your mistake. The
photographer’s name is Shmith F.W.M.:
Yarns “with a definite purpose behind them,”
other than the purpose of achieving publica-
tion, are seldom worth publication W.A.R.:
Seems to be a scrap of personal ex-
perience; as a story it has little interest
G.S.: Why blame the tree for such a string
of platitudes? G.1.L.: Ghost story uncon-
vincing—they nearly always are J.M.: That
wouldn’t be a miracle—just sheer bad busi-
ness! J.M.K.: Didn’t run into a place
M.M.; Rather too close to moralising....
JH.: The story about the Maori and the
cheque-book has been told about nearly every
abo - f Australia... .E.L.M.: Sentiment not
a meM”%ame dSse jV-°No'
moun[ J in i ay a f a ||,
N.C.: Vigorous, but they don’t really say
muc h..,.Syd C.: It has an old familiar
appearance C.P.: Article on Shanghai
rickshaws unsuitable 1.H.: For the writing
of an elegy on the late King or stanzas in
praise of the new one, other qualifications than
loyalty are necessary if the verses are to rise
above the level of the “In Memoriam”
column 5.8.; Couldn’t raise any enthusi-
asm over the Cobb’s-coach episode D.D.:
Incident too slight, though well enough told.
H. 0.8.: Neatly done, but not suitable
M.T.: “Returning Prodigal” not worth killing
a fatted calf for Capricorn: A par.
strung out to short-story length K.E.:
Dialogue a bit stilted, and the plot creaks at
every joint J.L.; Nothing wrong with the
telling, but the plot doesn’t quite satisfy
J.F.: A bit on the morbid side... .Anony-
mous: “Ghost in Cow Paddock” “Comic
Cuts” stuff; and who are you, anyway?
J.M.L.: Highly melodramatic attempt at re-
venge frowned on G.Y.: You’re a bit late
with that seasonal story; even so, it didn’t
quite reach publication standard... .E.F.P.;
The reader would still have to cogitate on
what the theme of the author’s ppus really
was... .E. 0.5.: Dialogue and setting-out are
up to standard, but plot falls short E.C.H.:
Turned down with regret, but the theme was
too slight to carry it....C.R.: Reads as if
the plot were made as you went along; and
the “stealing-out-at-dead-of-night” style would
kill anything W.H.S.: Too closely akin to
the Rocky Mountain school of minstrelsy
J.A.: “Real Game” too far removed from real
life.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.T.: A pair of inky mistakes 0.G.: You
won’t go far without lessons H.K.A.: The
gag has been worked to death J.R.: You
landed yourself in a mess from the first line....
A.8.D.: Have bumped that “sober-as-a-Judge”
wheeze before... .J.J.P.: As yet you are but
an earnest scratcher... .M.H.: Drawihg is fair
to middling; not a laugh in the joke
C.H.J.: You can’t draw a goat or an abo
J.P.: Don’t want them that size, and want
them better drawn E.M.: Quite promising,
but you’ll need lessons to carry you through.
.... J.K.M.C.: People who know him say the
likeness is just so-50... .E.G.: Curate dashing
around in underpants made us yawn....
N.M.8.: Scratchy... .D.J.S.: That chestnut
turns up about once a month... .N.G.:
Wouldn’t care to ride that sorry-looking nag.
A.M.B.: Still puzzled as to the mean-
ing of the weird figure in the background.
....A.C.F.: Lifeless characters... .T.S.:
Your loyalty remains unquestioned—can’t say
as much for your knowledge of art...,J.5.:
It ended up among the unwanted after its faults
had been weighed against its merits A.R.:
You’re not a success with the brush —try a
pen L.S.H.: It misses, chiefly in anatomical
details H.A.: Our cricketers don’t look like
that... .RJ.: Bar-room witticism crudely illus-
trated.
“Der Jong”: It’s quite like old times
to hear the head of Vickers telling
how the British Government has refused
a new anti-aircraft gun designed by the
firm, with the result that it is being sold
to foreign Governments. The dear old
War Office did the same thing with the
pom-pom, firing one-pounder shells on
the Maxim principle. The Boers
grabbed all they could get before
the ports were closed in 1899, and on
several occasions, at Spion Kop especi-
ally, got in some deadly work with the
weapon. Of course, the War Office then
rushed in and bought hoggins of the
guns. But by this time the scrapping
had gone to the wide open spaces where
there was plenty of room to scatter, and
the small shells did comparatively little
harm.
$ * * *
According to “S. M. Herald’s” Cana-
dian correspondent, Alberta electors not
incurably insane are already convinced
that a pup was sold to them by Mr. Have-
a-heart and his Social Crediters, to whom
they gave nearly all their representation
in the provincial and national Parlia-
ments.
At the recent municipal election in the
City of Medicine Hat, which was not long
ago a stronghold of Social Credit, the
Social Credit candidates were all decisively
beaten.
And this was before Mr. Have-a-heart
described his promise to give everyone
a national dividend of $25.00 a month as
“a figure of speech.”
* * * *
“Tomi”: In proportion to the number
of soldiers mobilised, Rumania suffered
more heavily than any other Great War
combatant. The figures compiled by the
U.S. War Department and quoted in the
World Almanack (1934), are so staggering
as to be almost incredible. Taking the
killed alone, Rumania lost 335,000 men
out of 750,000 under arms. The figures
in British reference-books are more con-
servative, but even these credit Rumania
with having lost more than one man out
of every four who served. As some com-
pensation, the Versailles Treaty more
than doubled her territories.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DißECions—Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV-£ public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Author, Sydney, in ill-health, wishes to meet
with exp. woman-writer who would collaborate
in revisions of novels dealing with social
problems.—2ol.
Young married man, N.S.W., bricklayer,
plasterer, licensed sewerage drainer, wants job
installing station sewerage services, underground
tanks, concrete dips, floors, paths, drains, chim-
neys, ovens, etc., own conveyance; go any-
where. —205.
Information Sought.
(1) Does the British Constitution confer any
privileges on the consort of a reigning queen ?
(2) How many consorts of reigning queens have
there been in English history ? —215.
(1) The Constitution has never attached any
special privileges to a consort, conformably
with the maxim that a woman can receive
honor from her husband but cannot confer it
upon him. (2) Three. Philip of Spain, though
designated King Consort, and although the
statutes were enacted ujider the joint names of
Philip and Mary, was excluded from more than
nominal dignity, and in disgust quitted England
after a year. The husband of Queen Victoria,
again, after having for years been known simply
as “Prince Albert,” received the title of
“Prince Consort” by individual creation, as he
had previously received that of “Royal High-
ness.” Prince George of Denmark, husband
of Queen Anne, constitutes the remaining
example.
* * * *
Excise revenue collected in Australia last
year ? —148.
Beer, £5,093,625; spirits, £1,577,066; tobacco,
£3,167,682 ; cigars, £5939 ; cigarettes, £1,788,771;
petrol, £625,901; playing-cards, £10,594; con-
centrated grape-must, £1545; cigarette-tubes
and -papers, £384,173; matches, £77,391 ;
total, £12,732,687. Figures are for 1934-35.
* * * *
What is the currency of Siam ? —9259.
Under the Currency Act of May, 1928, the
unit is the baht, a silver coin weighing 15
grammes, 900 fine, and equivalent to 0.66567
grammes of fine gold. Exchange ratio is
11 bahts for £1 sterling. Siam departed from
the gold standard on May 11, 1932, and the
circulation medium is almost entirely paper.
One baht equals 100 satangs. Other silver
coins are 50-satang and 25-satang pieces. The
10- and five-satang pieces are nickel, and the
one-satang piece bronze. Notes and baht coins
are legal tender, without limit as to amount,
the Government in 1902 began to issue cur-
rency notes (5, 10, 20, 100 and 1000 bahts,
and since October, 1918, one-baht notes).
* * * *
Is it a fact that the Cunard liner Queen
Mary, although not graded as first-class by the
Atlantic Conference, is the largest and finest
in the world? Some particulars ?—72
She is the largest of all ocean liners, and
was launched on the Clyde River on Septem-
ber 26, 1934, the ceremony being performed
by Queen Mary. Displacement is 73,000 tons,
and the ship is 1018ft. in length, and has 12
spacious decks. She is capable of travelling
from Southampton to New York, a distance
of approximately 3000 miles, in four days.
* * * *
(1) Brief description of the Eagle ships built
by Henry Ford for the American Government
during the war ? (2) How many were ordered,
how many were built and what was the cost ?
—121.
(1) The Eagles were of 550 tons burden,
were 204ft. long, 25ft. in beam and drew 8ft. of
water. They were driven by oil-burning steam
turbines of 3000 h.p., and had a speed of 18
knots. They carried a crew of 67 men, were
armed with two four-inch and one three-inch
rapid-fire guns, a Y-gun for “ash-cans” or
depth-bombs, and a depth-bomb dropper. (2)
The contract was for 100 Eagles for the United
States and 12 for Italy. Only 60 (for the
United States) were built, the Armistice inter-
The cost . of the 60 was about
39,000,000 dollars.
* * * *
Details concerning the £200 story competi-
tion being conducted by A. and C. Black, Ltd.,
of London ?—151.
Four prizes of £50 each are offered for
book rights in the winning entries in the fol-
lowing classes: (a) modern adventure stories
tor boys and girls, ( b ) animal stories, (c) stories
ot modern exploration, and ( d) adventure
stones for boys dealing with aeroplanes and
the air. Briefly, chief rules are: (1) MSS. must
be original, from 40,000 to 50,000 words in
length, and suitable for children from eight
years of age upwards. (2) Competitors may
enter for any or all four competitions, but
\ •, d ™ ma /£. their entries - (3) Closing date,
April 30, 1936. (4) MSS. should be addressed
to the Competition Editor, A. and C. Black,
Ltd., 4 Soho-square, London, W.l.
* * * *
What was the origin of the phrase “As the
Governor of North Carolina said to the
Governor of South Carolina ” 156.
It is said to have originated during a con-
/erence between the two Governors relating to
a dispute about boundaries and other inter-
state matters.. The undue prolongation of
the discussion and the alleged verbosity of the
Governor of South Carolina induced the Gov-
ernor ot the former State to issue his classic
invitation It s a long time between . drinks.”
What music has been inspired by Shak-
speare’s works ? —lOO.
A full list would more than fill this page.
“Romeo and Juliet” inspired operas by
Bellini, Gounod and Berlioz, an overture by
Tschaikovsky and incidental music by Edward
German. “Falstaff” provided opera libretti for
Verdi and for Balfe; “Othello” for Rossini and
Verdi. “Macbeth” (Verdi), “Taming of the
Shrew” (Goetz) and “Merry Wives of Windsor”
(Nicolai) are other Shakspearean operas.
Wagner commenced a score of “Measure for
Measure,” but never completed it. Mendels-
sohn’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream” music,
Tschaikovsky’s and Joachim’s “Hamlet” over-
tures, Joachim’s “Henry IV.” overture, and
the incidental music written for “Richard III.”
and “Henry VIII.” by Edward German, for
“Coriolanus” by A. C. Mackenzie and for
“The Merchant of Venice” by Frederick Rosse
are other examples, while a host of song-
writers, headed by Schubert, have found in-
spiration in the songs.
* * * *
Did Mozart ever meet Beethoven ; if so,
what did he think of him ? —-87.
Yes, Beethoven called on Mozart at Salz-
burg in 1787, four years before the latter’s
death. Mozart was then in the zenith of his
powers ; Beethoven “a sullen-faced youth of
17 with a thick Rhenish accent.” The visitor
seems to have had a rather cool reception at
the outset, but Mozart invited him to show
what he could do with a pianoforte and “soon
pricked up his ears.” When Beethoven had
gone his host said to some friends who had
listened in another room, “Watch that young
man. He will make a noise in the world
before long.”
* * * *
Is it a fact that Wagner in his struggling
days made a living by writing pianoforte
arrangements of famous operas ? If so, are
any of these arrangements obtainable to-day ?
—79.
Dannreuther, in his article in Grove’s Dic-
tionary (1898 edition), asserts that Wagner did
several partitions de piano for Schlesinger in
1840, but later biographies say that these
arrangements were for the cornet-a-piston, and
that the only pianoforte arrangement under-
taken for Schlesinger was of Donizetti’s “La
Favorita.” Whether the work was ever, com-
pleted isn’t stated. If it was published, the
work has long been out of print and for-
gotten.
* * * *
Who was Johannes Brahms’s mother? —114.
Johanna Henrika Christine Brahms, daughter
of Peter Radeloff Nissen. She was a native
of Hamburg, and was born in 1789. With her
sister, Christina Frederika, she kept a store for
the sale of fancy goods, and took in
lodgers. She was 17 years older than her hus-
band whom she married in 1830. It is said
that she was a woman of affectionate, noble
character, delicate from childhood.
* * * *
(1) Quantity of hydrogen gas required to
lift 150 lb. ? (2) Would a spherical balloon,
14 in. in diameter, be large enough ? (3) Is this
gas procurable in Australia ? (4) Is it
explosive ? (5) How would helium compare
with hydrogen as regards (1) and (4) ? —145.
(1) Over 2000 cubic feet of gas space at
sea-level. (2) No; the balloon would require
a diameter of nearly 16ft. (3) Yes; from
Commonwealth Oxygen and Acetylene, Ltd.,
Wortley-street, Balmain, N.S.W. Prices on
application. (4) Yes; with air it forms a
violently explosive mixture. (5) Helium is
heavier than hydrogen, the order of spec. grav.
being: Air, 1; hydrogen, 0.0695; helium,
0.1381. Helium is not inflammable. A spheri-
cal helium balloon would have to have a
diameter of 19.63 ft. to hoist 1501 b.
* * * *
(1) What is the difference in the readings of
a wet- and dry-bulb thermometer, and how
caused, and has such difference anything to do
with or is it an indication of humidity ? (2)
Is there any simple way of measuring
humidity ? —lOB.
(1) The wet-bulb thermometer is one in
which the bulb is covered with moistened
muslin. The moisture is evaporated at a rate
proportional to the dryness of the atmosphere.
Evaporation causes cooling, and, consequently,
the reading of the wet bulb is depressed below
that of the dry bulb. The drier the atmosphere,
the greater will be the difference between the
two readings. It may be as much as 25 to
30 degrees if there is very little moisture in
the air, but if the air is fully charged to
saturation point there will be no evaporation,
and both dry- and wet-bulb readings will be
the same. (2) Yes; by use of wet-bulb and
dry-bulb thermometers. Mathematical tables
have been compiled by which, from readings of
the two thermometers, the absolute humidity or
actual amount of moisture in the air (either
mass per unit volume or pressure exerted by
the vapor) can be calculated, and also the
relative humidity. This latter is the ratio
between the amount of moisture present and
the amount required to saturate the air at the
particular dry-bulb temperature. Tables (price
6d.) can be obtained from the Weather
Bureau, and may be found in some textbooks
on physics or chemistry.
* * * *
(1) Why was the Great Wall of China built ?
(2) By whom ? (3) Its height, length and
breadth ? (4) Did it accomplish its purpose ?
—ll6.
(1) and (2) It was constructed by order of
the first Emperor, Tsin Shih Hwangti (246-
209 b.c.), as a protection against the incursions
of the Tartars. (3) The wall stretches from
beyond Lanchow, Kansu Provmce, m the west,
to Chihli Province, where it ends within a few
miles of the sea at Shanhaikwan, the total
length (along its sinuosities) being 1500 miles.
It is constructed of two strong retaining walls
of brick, rising from granite foundations, the
space being filled with earth and stones ; the
breadth at base being about 25ft. (at the top,
15ft.), and the height 15ft. to 30ft., in portions
having towers from 40ft. to 50ft. high at inter-
vals of 200 yards. (4) Yes, fairly well.
* * * *
In which of Shakspeare’s play is ‘‘The Seven
Ages of Man,” and what are they ? —l5O.
In “As You Like It,” Act 11, Scene 7. The
speech is that of the “melancholy Jacques,
commencing “All the world’s a stage,” on
which “one man in his time plays many parts,
his acts being seven ages”: the infant, the
schoolboy, the lover, the soldier, the justice,
the “lean and slippered pantaloon,” and, lastly,
second childhood, “sans teeth, sans eyes, sans
taste, sans everything.”
* * =i= *
Treatment for weight reduction ? Weight,
14 stone; age, 45; occupation sedentary, and
weight steadily increasing. —200.
Apart from occupation, increase in weight
is contributed to by organic changes; at stated
age this is always possible in health. Although
thyroid-gland substance, iodine, etc., may be
prescribed, your diet demands attention as a
preliminary treatment. Exclude fats, pork,
bacon, bananas, grapes, potatoes, peas, beans,
carrots, parsnips, sweets, sugar, sweetened
drinks, ice-cream, white bread, butter and milk.
Brown or wholemeal bread is allowed; also
skim-milk in moderation. Water may be taken
between, but not with, meals. A hot lemon-
drink night and morning is of value. Moderate
exercise daily is essential.
ijj * * *
Difference between solvent spirit lotion and
ethereal spirit soap for the skin ? How are
these employed, and for what purpose ? —195.
As a cosmetic lotion for the skin, any alco-
holic liquid is accepted as a solvent for grease
excess; its strength depends upon the spirit
percentage. The ordinary spirit lotion is
primarily intended as a skin-cleanser and
astringent for open pores. Liquid witch-hazel,
Cologne, etc., come within thjs category; wipe
into the skin daily after bathing the face with
tepid water. Ethereal spirit soap differs from
the former in the addition of soap and a 50 p.c.
proportion of ether with the spirit. This is
also a cleanser and fat-solvent, but its action
is somewhat drastic if the skin is dry or sensi-
tive. It is of special use for blackhead elimina-
tion. Wipe firmly into affected parts on a
pad of wool or lint twice or thrice weekly, and
follow with a tepid wash. Almond oil or a
vegetable-oil cream is employed to soothe the
skin after its application.
* * * *
The term ‘‘mydriatic” occurs in a prescrip-
tion from my doctor. What is its definition ?
—207.
A drug or chemical which causes dilatation or
increase in size of the pupil of the eye is known
as a mydriatic. Those chiefly used in ophthalmic
work are atropine, homatropine, cocaine and
hyoscine; they may be applied as aqueous
solutions or in the form of an unguent. All
are extremely poisonous; their action tem-
porarily paralyses the nerve endings controlling
the sphincter muscle of the iris, or otherwise
stimulates the nerve supply to the dilator
muscle. Dilatation of the pupil facilitates exami-
nation of the eye.
* * * *
For years the action of my left knee has
been accompanied by a crunching noise. Only
on two occasions, last year and this, has
there been any pain; it soon passes away. What
is the cause, is the trouble likely to develop,
and what treatment is advised ? —9816.
An injured cartilage would account for the
“crunching”; there is usually some inflamma-
tion. Applied heat benefits; for pain and con-
gestion a liniment of potassium iodide with
soap may be rubbed in daily after fomenting
with hot water. Wear an elastic-crepe bandage
for support. Painting the part, with tincture of
iodine tends to harden the tissues; if trouble
persists, alternate other treatments with a
dugong-oil pack. Medical attention is advised.
* # * *
Best part of England to winter in ? 1 have
a weak chest. How long does it take to get
acclimatised to the English winters ? —9985.
Harrogate may be recommended; it ranks
with Bath and Buxton as one of the chief
British spas, and, situated on the edge of the
Yorkshire moors, 450 ft. to 600 ft. above sea-
level, it has a bracing and invigorating air.
The sunshine record is 1500 hours p.a., and
the rainfall is 30.3 in. With regard to acclima-
tisation, much depends upon the individual
case.
* * * *
I have a son 13 years of age who is badly
affected with stammering and appears to be
getting worse. Is there any prospect of a cure
for this complaint ? —9820.
With educative treatment a cure is usually
possible. Although formerly believed to be
due to a defect in the mechanism of speech
production, modern research has proved the
disorder to be psychogenic in origin. With
practice and the exercise of will-power, the
following train both nerves and lips to act
as needed, and gradually build a co-ordina-
tion between the two: (1) Form all words in
which the first letter or syllable is difficult of
articulation mutely with the lips, then articu-
late the rest. (2) Practise reading aloud—
enunciate each syllable slowly and distinctly.
(3) Indulge in deep-breathing exercises daily.
* * * *
Do garden hedges need much watering dur-
ing the summer ? Best method of watering ?
—154.
During dry weather garden hedges require
regular and thorough watering. A light
sprinkling every day is useless, and is injurious
by reason of caking the surface soil and by
attracting the roots to the surface; a good
soaking once a week is, on the contrary, bene-
ficial. The foliage will also benefit from an
occasional good hosing, which not only keeps
the leaves clean, but holds scale in check. A
good method of watering is to make a hollow
trench, and to allow the water to run slowly
along, so that it percolates the ground thor-
oughly and gets down to the roots.
Brief Answers.
H.C.H.: W. Trinick, hon. secretary,
Rangers’ League, Box 36075, G.P.0., Sydney,
will post literature on request... .W.M.8.: (1)
The Nests and Eggs of Birds Found Breeding
in Australia and Tasmania, by Alfred J. North.
(2) The Australian Museum, College-street,
Sydney DJ.: Arthur J. Bedwell, 64 Me-
Lachlan-avenue, Rushcutter Bay; A. W. Cole-
mane, 421 King-street, Newtown; T. V.
Homan, 78a Wentworth Park-road, Glebe —
all Sydney... .M.W.W.: The “Countryman”
(quarterly, 2s. 6d.), edited and published by
J. W. Robertson Scott, Idbury, Kingham,
Oxfordshire, England G.S.: All are aborigi-
nal words. Karawinna means “the sky”;
Bungalook, “stringybark”; Collymungool, “an
expansive lagoon”; Wirripang, “eaglehawk”;
Turrambine, “blue-gum”; and Yarramin, “a
horse” P.D.: Thomas Edward Spencer
wrote the following books of verse: How
McDougall Topped the Score, Budgeree
Ballads and Why Doherty Died L.A.: From
the secretary, British Drama League, 10
King-street, Covent Garden, London, W.C.2.
T.C.: Cinesound Productions, 65 Ebley-
street, Waverley, and National Studio, Nilson-
street, Pagewood—both Sydney... .A.P.K.: A
code address for telegrams may be registered,
the charges being: (a) For Commonwealth
telegrams, £2 2s. p.a.; ( b ) for international
telegrams, 10s. 6d. p.a.; (c) for both Common-
wealth and international telegrams, £2 2s. p.a.
S.T.: The gladiolus is a sun-loving plant,
and, whilst a position sheltered from the hot
winds is necessary, it must not be too shaded,
but well open to the sunlight... .T.M.H.: The
art gallery at Port Adelaide, which forms part
of the local institute, was founded by the late
E. Phillips, and was formally opened on July
27, 1880. The first gallery established in
South Australia, it is also the oldest provin-
cial one in Australia... .A.S.: Wyndham,
“Gazette”; Broome, “Nor’-west Echo”;
Carnarvon, “Northern Times”; Wiluna,
“Miner”... .C. 8.: The submarine AEI dis-
appeared with all hands—3s officers and men
—in the waters of the Pacific on September
14, 1914....P.J.: Local agents for co. advise
that the Queen Mary is not likely to come to
Sydney, mainly owing to the tremendous cost
that would be involved E-C.H.L.: Apply
to the various State Statisticians, who may be
able to supply separate particulars for each
kind of factory mentioned M.F.H.: Any
oily substance which will form a continuous
film on surface of the water will prove effec-
tive in preventing the breeding of mosquitoes
therein. Liquid paraffin should be suitable,
and will certainly not give rise to any odor.
R.K.S.: Parts are obtainable from Hugh
Lennon and Co., Hall-street, Spotswood, Mel-
bourne E.A.G.: (1) Yes. (2) Assuming
husband and wife contributed half each to the'
account, probate duty would be charged only
on his half, but if the husband contributed
the whole and put the account in the joint
names of himself and wife duty would be pay-
able on the whole. You cannot escape pay-
ment in the way suggested. (3) In Vic. the
duty on estates passing to widows, children
and grandchildren where the value of the
estate does not exceed £lOOO is 2 p.c. (4)
There is no fixed portion, but he should make
adequate provision for them, having regard
to the value of the estate; otherwise the Court
could, in necessitous cases, compel such pro-
vision to be made... .G.S.: Address the letter
to him care Italian Consulate-General, 13 Bligh-
street, Sydney D.V.: From Department of
Lands, Sydney G.8.C.: From Australian
General Electric, 123 Clarence-street, Sydney.
T.B.: Write secretary, A.J.C., 6 Bligh-
street, Sydney E.L.: The Chairman’s Guide
and Secretary’s Companion (3s. 9d.) ; Speeches
and Toasts and the Chairman’s Guide (ss. 3d.);
The Chairman’s Handbook (4s. 6d.); How to
Conduct a Meeting (35.), by John Rigg; Meet-
ings (ss. 6d.), by F. D. Head J.0.C.: J. J.
Hardie’s Cattle Camp can be obtained from all
leading booksellers, price 4s. 6d 5.J.8.:
Kay’s Leather Work (25.)... .F. 8.: Write to
the American Trade Commissioner, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney E.H.: Under the provisions
of the Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act
1920-35 and regulations thereunder, the Repat-
riation Commission is empowered to vary any
previous decision given by it, conceding eligi-
bility for medical treatment and increased war
pension in cases where subsequent investiga-
tions (including medical and lay evidence) prove
that such variation is justifiable. The ex-
soldier concerned has the right of appeal to
the appropriate Appeal Tribunal appointed
under the Act T.H.J.: Write either Blue
Funnel Line, 5 O’Connell-street, or White Star
Aberdeen Line, 15 Bent-street —both Sydney.
. ...W.H.: Sir J. A. Marriott’s address is care
Carlton Club, Pall Mall, S.W.I, London....
M.H.: Candidates for the David Berry prize
of a gold medal and £5O may select any subject
dealing with Scottish history within the reigns
of James I. to James VI. inclusive, provided
such subject has been previously submitted to
and approved by the council of the Royal
Historical Society, 22 Russell-square, London,
W.C.I D.H.: Exact analysis costly—charge
depends upon nature of test required. Refer
to local chemist or Dixon and Byrn, Reiby-
lane, Sydney. This is private work; not for
Health Department C.H.: Nasal-douche
powder is powdered borax, salt and bicarb,
soda. Dissolve one teaspoon of the mixed
powder in a pint of tepid water. Use as a
nasal wash and gargle night and morning.
Smear mentholated vaseline within each nostril
before retiring O.B.: Write N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department, Sydney, for leaflets, “The
Sulphuring of Apricots,” “Drying of Figs,”
“A Standard Mixed Dip for Sultanas” and
“The Drying of Prunes” F.G.: Arramagong
means “wombats running into their holes”;
Borgaline, “home of the perch”; Caratel,
“black cockatoo with grey tail”; and Gulo-
mogo, “stony ground” K.M.: Louis Bren-
nan, the inventor of the torpedo which bears
his name, was the son of Thomas Brennan
by his marriage with Bridget MacDonel, and
was born in Ireland on Jan. 28, 1852. He
went to Melbourne with his parents when 11.
. ...J.K.: No. The brother is entitled only to
his share in the estate on an equal division
between the children living on the termination
of the trust (Many others mailed.)


1
/
■
ft.
i n
tr
't.l:
• h '/ ‘
■fc U
««<w.VVV .
:'*r ,?/,.
7C2-
t' t
Vs " 'l'll
f \
* Ms
m
y •
M
J .§L
,1
pASTEST of all field dogs the
setter is also the most impulsive.
Long years of breeding have made
him readily amenable to training
Like a pedigree setter your EVER-
READY battery is full of quick
impulsive energy. You will find
how reliable and constant an EVER-
READY battery is if you equip a
heavy duty or Superdyne to your
Radio or buy EVER-READY refills
for your torch.
No battery can serve you better thaw
an EVER READY.
» <
VERftEADY
*ES
e: Ready
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
NUFACTURED BY THE EVER-READY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA! LTD.. SYDNEY AND LONDON
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Unnecessary
Having silenced motor-horns in the
streets, our Ogilvie Government says that
it will probably consider limiting other
unnecessary noises. Isn’t one of these the
noise made by politicians?—W. M. (Tas.).
Trees and Wealth
I was particularly interested in “Trees
and Wealth” (B. 22/1/’36), and appre-
ciated every word. Another quotation
from the 1935 report of the Queensland
Land Board:
From that time onwards the private cut '
diminished until now little remains, whilst
the Crown cut has been correspondingly
increased to make up the balance of re-
quirements. At the present rate of cutting ,
the stand of hoop and bunya pine remain-
ing at the end of a decade will be of no
great consequence.
I fully agree with you in your criti-
cism of the attitude of the N.S.W. Fores-
try Commission, from which it can be
inferred that there is no room for really
highly-trained technical officers. This,
as you know, is quite contrary to the
decisions of Empire forestry confer-
ences. In no undertaking is there a
greater need for fully-qualified men. —
F. H. Corke, secretary, Sydney and
Suburban Timber Merchants.
“Tiburon” and the Teachers
After a half-century with chalk and
duster, I raise my hat to Kylie Tennant
and her Tiburon,. that good Australian
book. The author’s effective tackling of
the problems facing “travellers” will
prove of national benefit; but of still
more interest to me personally is the
manner in which she floodlights the ser-
vice rendered to Australia by the thou-
sands of girls running one-teacher
schools in Never-Never areas.
The exigencies of the plot demanded
that Warning Hill’s tiny school should
be within calling distance of Tiburon;
but it typifies exactly the myriads
of bandbox schools adjacent to
nowhere. The army iof chief officers,
sub-officers, senior clerks, inspectors-in-
the-field and other folk running the seven
non-Federal education systems, which
ought to be one. under Commonwealth
control, can learn many lessons from
Tiburon, particularly from brainy and
tactful Inspector Kentish. I admire his
manner of dealing with pupils and
teachers, and especially his definite action
concerning that fiendish anonymous
letter, bane of so many teachers. —T. P.
(Vic.).
Self-defence
If Australia is helpless in the matter
of defence, it is only because it has a
Government that prevents it from help-
ing itself,' ■
Australia cannot be blockaded. Any
, nation attempting a blockade would
only starve itself. As to invasion, with
the sea routes clear for all-comers it
would be impossible to transport an army
with the slightest chance against such
a force as the Commonwealth, with its
million or so of men eligible for military
service, could oppose to it. Can any-
one name the nation able to bring even
a quarter of a million men here with army
equipment and food supply in one lot?
What a target they would offer for
aeroplanes and submarines should such
an armada appear within reach!
Suppose an invader sought to land
small parties in different places where
they might dig in until sufficiently re-
inforced for a combined movement.
When someone told Von Moltke that
he knew a place for getting a German
army into England, the great general said
he knew a dozen ways of getting it in
but not one way of getting it out.
It would be our own fault if any army
that could be landed here from any-
where went out again except as disarmed
prisoners of war.
By throwing away her sea supremacy
England has wakened Australians up from
their dream that they are safe for all time.
But, instead of doing anything about it,
our Government tells us that it is no use
trying to do anything because with our
million fighting men we could not hope
to resist an invader. —C. T. (N.S.W.).
“No Parking”
Melbourne Tramways chairman Bell,
newly appointed, suggests that not many
years hence motor traffic will become so
large that parking in streets will be pro-
hibited and that all cars will be required
to pull up outside the central parts of the
city. To-day, all movement in central
streets is slowed down, while double
parking actually stops traffic in thorough-
fares where trams run.
This is not peculiar to Melbourne.
Sooner or later, every big city in the
world will be forced to clear its streets
of parked cars—and of horse-drawn
vehicles. — Grasspan (Vic.).
A Northern Territory Plan
I regret that. I misread your statement
referring to cattle numbers (B. 22/l/’36).
My figures as to the number of square
. miles in the proposed area are approxi
mately correct; but over one-third is
now vacant. Further country will be
abandoned if no outlet for fat cattle is
established shortly. All this vacant coun-
try, plus the remainder, which is lightly
stocked, . makes the average present
carrying capacity very small; but, with
a scheme. operating such as the Barkly
Tableland Co-operative Development Co.
proposes, carrying capacity would average
about' eight head per square mile, or
over 800,000 head. The security is not
. what the area actually is carrying at
present, but what it will carry in 10
• years’ time.
“Meatworks are not usually built by
Governments.” But the Queensland
Government has partly financed the
present meatworks at Normanton; the
Westralian Government financed the
Wyndham works, and subsidised works
at Carnarvon ; and money advanced by
Governments in Victoria to co-operative
meatworks runs into hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds. The Brisbane abattoirs
are another example. The Homebush
abattoirs, Sydney, were financed by the
Government, and the capital cost has
. been heavily written down.
Our scheme provides for interest to be
paid on the money spent on the meat-
works as well as on all the rest of the
loan. When I mentioned the building ot
a township I was referring to accommo-
dation for employees.
You suggest that baby-beef production
calls for the expenditure of a great deal
of money. We who know the area are
confident that we shall be able to export
a considerable percentage of this quality,
but the bulk of the beef will probably
be good quality chilled from bullocks
aged three years to a bit older. _ Under
our scheme we would be treating the
bullocks in the area 18 months to two
years younger than is being done at
present.
You ask why the lessees have to request
the Government to guarantee the loan,
seeing there are plenty of banks. What
financial house will advance the mone)
for any scheme out there while it is sub-
ject to changing Government policies
every two or three years? The Barki}
Tableland lessees require a long term-';
we suggest 60 years —not only to repay
interest and principal, but also as
guarantee of continuity of policy. *
Maclntyre (N.S.W.).


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
As The Bulletin predicted—twice, in-
deed, because of the postponement —
Heritor won the Challenge Stakes at
Randwick, and won it well. He had done
a capital public trial for the A.J.C.’s
important sprint in the Berala Handicap
at Warwick Farm, beating very comfort-
ably two smart horses in Thebez and
Cabalist; but for some reason or other
the performance did not impress either
sporting reporters or the public. So for
the Challenge Stakes the chestnut (he is
a natty four-year-old gelding by Heroic
—Shule Agra, owned by knight Hugh
Denison and trained by Cook) was
allowed to go out at 14 to 1 in a field
of 12. Divs. for 10s. were £8 Is. and
£2 15s. ; and here and there ringmen
offered longer odds than the tote paid.
Heritor hit the front in the first fur-
long, but Moaenza made it a very strenu-
ous race for the chestnut by cutting at
him most of the way. He had shaken her
off at the Leger, and then he had to take
on the favorite, Gay Blonde (3 to 1), on
whom Munro had sneaked a run on the
rails. The Maoriland mare finished well
but not well enough, and was beaten by
half a head ; Porcia was third, almost her
own length away, and Palm fourth, with
Regular Bachelor and Moaenza next.
Backers of Gay Blonde thought themselves
unlucky, but she was beaten on her
merits. Seldom does a horse succeed
when he has to meet two challenges in a
six-furlongs race ; and that is what Heri-
tor withstood. The Randwick track is
being refashioned, and no records are
broken nowadays, so lmin. 12isec. was
good time.
It was a fearful day for punters. Two
other outsiders in Water Waggon (14 to
1, Widden Handicap) and Autoland (20
to 1, Paddington Handicap) were among
the winners, and there were several better-
backed horses than Mr. Kerry (8 to 1),
who just beat Viceroy in the January
Handicap.
A.J.C. committeemen E. J. Watt and
Walter Brunton saw their colors carried
to victory in the two important races
decided on the second day at Randwick.
Cereza romped home in the Adrian Knox
Stakes, and in the Anniversary Handicap
Mr. Kerry got up in the last stride. The
old fellow used to be owned by Mr.
Watt, but was sold to Mr. Brunton.
For the Adrian Knox Stakes Cereza
was at 7 to 4 on. She jumped out from
the rails, was pulled in behind the coun-
try filly, Dancing Lady, and took charge
at the half-mile: after that it was “no
race.” Fair Diana beat Salamander for
second. Urunalong disappointed, but
Trimercian showed enough pace to keep
her in the limelight in weaker company.
The Victorian candidate, Valsard, was
troubled by the reverse way of running ;
she was one of the last lot. Time: lmin.
38sec. —very good.
Pratt rode Cereza and also Mr. Kerry
in the Anniversary Handicap. He allowed
the gelding plenty of time to become
balanced. On the other hand, Curator
(equal favorite with Mr. Kerry at 4 to 1)
was hustled along from barrier-rise in
an effort to win all the way. Viceroy
kept him going, and it was obvious turn-
ing for home that Curator would not see
the journey out. The three-year-old had
his measure at the Leger, and there looked
a good thing ; but Mr. Kerry, who had
begun to make his run from the half-
mile, flashed up on the outside and de-
feated Hugh Denison’s big chestnut by
half a head. Curator was 2\ lengths
away third ; Limbohm was fourth and
Journal fifth—there had been backing for
him at tens. Viceroy is a three-year-old
and an improving stayer. A Sydney Cup
horse perhaps.
Miss Lorna Doone has another promis-
ing colt in Billy Boy, by Pantheon—
Earloona (Earloona was the dam of
Karuma). The stable-mate of Jovial Son
and Sylvandale was at 5 to 4 for the
Havilah Handicap. First away, he
dropped back and looked beaten, but
when pulled to the outside and given
plenty of room to stride out he mowed
the opposition down. Two lengths was
his advantage at the finish ; Barramul
was second and Home Thrust third.
Trainer Lawson preferred Thebez to
his other horse, Short Wave, in the Kur-
nell Handicap. Thebez firmed from
eights to fives, easing to sevens ; Short
Wave went from fives to eights. Heritor
(11 to 2) and Short Wave had a great
battle for the lead, and half-way down
the straight it looked as if Heritor would
win. But it was his third strenuous race
in a fortnight, and he tired. Short Wave
went on to beat the fast-finishing Dame
Moab (33 to 1), with Heritor in third
place and Vista fourth. Moaenza was
badly away.
The Magpie colt Stalwart (5 to 2)
exhibited pluck and McCartqn vigor in
the Novice Handicap. McCarten kept
to the rails, while Domica, slow to move,
was rushed along. Domica was in the
lead at the Leger, but Stalwart, though
his backers almost abandoned hope, kept
plugging on under his nine stone, and,
amidst great cheering, he caught and
passed the mare —a head to the good.
Wattle Day was a poor third.
Lone Raider from M.L. was the
medium of a successful plunge in the
Phillip Handicap. He was backed from
twelves to sixes, and was not in danger
of defeat from the top of the straight.
Autoland —nearly last at one stage —and
Fernacre (favorite at fours) filled the
places. Fanfare’s fourth was a good
effort; there was no support for him,
and he looked a trifle above himself.
Lone Raider’s owners sent the chestnut
to Frank McGrath with an idea that he
was good enough -for cups. It was his
first win for two years.
William Booth, of Rosehill, was the
unluckiest of trainers at this meeting:
Vice-Royal (January Handicap) and
Tingalba (Paddington Handicap) broke
down. Vice-Royal had thrice beaten Mr.
Kerry this summer, and must have
finished near that veteran in the Anni-
versary Handicap had he kept right. And
Tingalba had been revealing a glimpse of
his capital four- and five-year-old form.
* * * *
A man with a good three-year-old can
make a lot of money in Melbourne. That
city has more progressive racing clubs
than Sydney possesses, and they increas-
ingly put on richly-endowed weight-for-
age races in which, as often as not, the
company is by no means select. Thus
Shaw, the owner of Cardinal, has had
the satisfaction of seeing his colt win two
weight-for-age races this season, with
more in prospect. In the C. F. Orr
Stakes at Williamstown as much as 7 to
1 could be got about Cardinal in a very
ordinary field of five. Naturally the
price shortened —to 9 to 2 at the close.
It was picking up money ; Cardinal had
little trouble in defeating Petit Fils and
Press- Gang, who was an even-money
favorite.
* * * *
Though few of his progeny have
shown stamina, Beau Fils has sired very
good sprinters. Juveniles by the Son-in-
Law stallion usually come to hand
quickly; one, Excel, scored at Ascot
(Vic.). She belongs to Burlesque’s
trainer, M. Crossey, who did not forget
to back the filly; indeed, weight of
money for Excel was such that she
wound up favorite at twos.
Only five started, yet the finish was
exciting. The Bulgarian (Gay Lothario
—Balkan Rose) joined Excel and Claro-
veldt after entering the straight; Claro-
veldt weakened, and Excel just managed
to stall off The Bulgarian. Whereas
Excel was sold for lOOgns. as a yearling,
The Bulgarian, who is a brother to
Balkan King, cost 850gns. The Bul-
garian may develop into a good horse.
He handled himself rather awkwardly on
Saturday.
There is promise of much new blood
when the Grand Nationals come on for
decision at Flemington in the winter. A
horse that seems destined to be heard of
in the first leg of the jumping double is
Blackford (Stand By—Lady Peggy). He
made a victorious debut over the battens
at Mornington recently, and followed
up by taking the Tottenham Trial Hurdle
at Ascot. Ridden by Fullarton, who
seems invincible in contests over ob-
stacles just now, Blackford made the
opposition look cheap, although still
green at the game. C. Fitzroy, a one-
time Sydney trainer, holds Blackford on
lease from the breeder, T. S. Ryder, of
S.A.
Closing Time scored in the Eclipse
Handicap—for the first time in Hunter
White’s colors. Opposed to such
speedsters as Heros, L’Elite, Multudo
and Great Legend, all Newmarket Han-
dicap aspirants, he received unexpected
warmth of support, the best odds obtain-
able at barrier-rise being 4 to 1 ; Voitre’s
mount, Great Legend, was at 9 to 4, and
Heros at threes. Multudo was left at
the post, and Great Legend marred his
chance by hanging out. Hopping off
smartly, Closing Time galloped as
straight as a gunbarrel, and reached
the judge nearly a length in advance of
Heros, with something in hand. Great
Legend ran third, half a neck farther
off. He may be relied upon to do better
along the “straight six” at Flemington.
*•••••
El Bassana won the Ascot Handicap,
and now seems to have an outside chance
in the Australian Cup. Roy Shaw, who
trains him, has another representative in
the race, Hot Shot. Consider-
ing that El Bassana had failed twice in
Purse company since the beginning of
December, it was surprising to find the
Albanian gelding pressing Petau closely
for favoritism. Taking command at the
home turn, he shook off a late challenge
from old Ruach, and won by a length,
Petau, who hung out, being a close third.
Heroic Prince finished well, and may be
coming to hand again. Since his Aus-
tralian Cup triumph two years ago,
Heroic Prince has been consistently
beaten on the flat,. but' this season he
scored at his only two outings over
hurdles.
The easiest win achieved at Ascot was
that of Baryta (The Night Patrol—
Bareena) in the first division of the
Macedon Trial Handicap. This three-
year-old colt left his rivals standing, and
scored by what the judge stated to be
4 \ lengths ; there seemed much more
daylight between first and second.
And Baryta hung out in the straight!
The dam of Baryta is by Woorak from
a sister to Artilleryman.
® t © 6 9
In the second division of the Trial
Handicap Gay Pop (Gay Lothario—
Popma) had a belated success. Bred by
the late James Wilson at Queenscliff, he
is trained by Freedman, and holds an
engagement in the Newmarket Handi-
cap ; but the chief hope of Freedman
in that race is L’Elite. The Federation
Welter went to Your Honor, owned by
A. G. Barlow, who landed the Victoria
Derby and Oaks of 1923 with Frances
Tressady.
* * * *
The high quality of the three-year-old
division is obviously recognised by the
V.R.C. handicapper. Starting his New-
market list with Hall Mark at 9st. 91b.
(Closing Time has 9st. 71b., Press Gang
and Arachne 9st'. 41b., Heros 9st. lib.
and Ogwell Bst. 131 b.), Mr. Davis has
given pride of place among the three-
year-olds to Valiant Chief (Bst. 111 b.),
with Garrio (Bst. 101 b.), Young Idea
(Bst. 91b.), Cardinal (Bst. 61b.), Carnarvon
(Bst. 31b.), Bimilla (Bst. 21b.), Gay Lover
(Bst. lib.) and Grand Mogul (Bst. lib.)
following. This opinion of their relative
merits over the Flemington “six” will not
be universally endorsed. It is very ques-
tionable whether Valiant Chief is cap-
able of conceding 21b. to Young Idea.
Heritor has a chance with 6st. 131 b.
• ••••*
The handicapper reckons Sylvandale
31b. better than Hall Mark over the
Australian Cup distance ; and probably
he is. Sylvandale won last year with
Bst. 31b.; he gets* 9st. 91b. now. Cuddle,
the Maoriland mare, now in Sydney, has
9st. 21b.; Marabou, 9st. Feldspar and
Allunga are bracketed, with Bst. 61b. ;
Palfresco has the weight with which Syl-
vandale won. Likely lightweights are
Heroic Prince (7st. 131 b. ; he had Bst.
51b. when he won in 1934), Bunsby Gaze
(7st. 81b.), Ismarus (7st. lib.) and El
(6st. 111 b.). - -
At the moment this Page likes Young
Idea and Heroic Prince or Ismarus.
Arachne, successful in the last Oak-
leigh Plate with Bst. 111 b., has been
raised to 9st. 71b. in the next. Closing
Time is topweight with 9st. 91b. —he won
the Hawksburn Handicap with 9st. 111 b.,
and was third in the Newmarket with
9st. 71b. Cereza will be troublesome with
Bst. 101 b. if she goes over. She is
reckoned lib. better than Valiant Chief
and Cardinal, who have the same weight;
so have Grand Mogul and Bimilla (Bst.
51b.). Closing Time may be the least
unsafe proposition of those mentioned,
and Heritor (7st. 41b.) is worth con-
sidering.
Ins and Outs
Frank Tarrant writes from Amritsar:
In justice to the team and myself i feel I
must answer and correct the inaccuracy of
statements made by “Huzoor” (B. 4/12/’35).
In the first place, there are no Indian gentle-
men’s clubs which do not admit Europeans.
With reference to being made members of
British clubs, we were invited to dinner by
Australian residents, the dinner to be at the
Yacht Club (for Europeans exclusively) at
Bombay. The Maharajah of Patiala was in
Bombay. He is our host, and the team cannot
go where he is not allowed. I asked them
to have the dinner anywhere else, but they
refused, so there the matter ended; we did
not have the dinner.
Is not “Huzoor” proclaiming himself some-
• thing of a prophet when he says our gesture
will only induce amused contempt by the
Indians? The'best answer to this will be given
by the Australians on their return to Australia.
Years ago Sir Thomas Lipton invited
“Ranji” to lunch with him at the Yacht Club.
They had just come to India (“Ranji” after
a long stay in England), and it was Sir
. Thomas’s first visit. Neither knew of the
restriction “Europeans only”; as they were
entering the club “Ranji” was stopped, the
reason being explained. Sir Thomas Lipton
resigned from the club.
I have been coming to India for 28 years,
so I presume to know the right thing to do
in matters of this description.
* * * *
Tarrant’s men have missed Oxenham.
Playing a combined team at Secundera-
bad, they were dismissed for 144 and 154.
;The Indian side smacked iup 413 for 5
(dec.); Amaranth, who had scored
heavily against the visitors in earlier
matches, made 144. Ryder reached his
1000 runs in this match.
* H= * *
“Tenth Slip”: With the Sheffields clos-
ing at the end of this month, the next
thing to think of is the selection of the
Australian team to meet the Englishmen
next summer. There will be a sort of
trial in the Grimmett-Richardson testi-
monial match at Adelaide, and it is to
be hoped the Australian selectors will
pick the Rest of Australia side to meet
the team returning from South Africa.
Memory of the farcical result when the
N.S.W. selectors were allowed to pick the
“Australian” team against the Maryle-
boners is still unpleasantly fresh.
© :’S * *
“Tenth Slip”: I, for one, am not ex-
tolling .that bat which has a handle of
steel instead of the familiar cane and
rubber (B. 29/l/’36), nor am I fore-
casting huge scores from Bradman and
others when they take to the new fad.
The bowler has to beat the blade of the
bat and not the handle. As long as that
end of it isn’t widened there should be
nowt to worry about.
.$$ * #
“Skepsel”: In sport South Africa has
always been Teacher’s Pet as far as
Britain is concerned, and has constantly
been , compared favorably with those
awful Australians. The riot at the Cape
Town Test, including the pelting of
Richardson with rolled-up newspapers
and other oddments when he went out
to inspect the wicket, has not been
paralleled on this side. We have to go
back to 1878 to find a Sydney crowd
rushing the ground in protest after an
innings. The team was that led by Lord
Harris, and, though the players suffered
some jostling as they pushed pavilion-
wards through the mob, no harm was
done. What sort of a tale would Larwopd
have made of it in that notorious book
if his pal Jardine had been pelted with
solid chunks of “S. M. Herald”?
('Continued on next page)
Ted Hampson made his marble good
for Berlin by getting over the 220 at the
Dunn Shield meeting in Sydney in even
time. Carlton, Yates and Grehan all
have done the distance in 21 3-ssec. The
world’s best is 20 3-ssec.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The London Rugby
conference between the British unions
and those of the Dominions has ended in
an atmosphere of secrecy, the result of
the confab being concealed until released
by returning delegates. I will take
a shade of odds that Australian and M.L.
attempts to incorporate Rugby League
rules in the local versions of the Union
code have been thrown out.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Trial Stakes: El Banado; next,
Pavarti.
Flying Handicap: Regal Star;
next, Thebez.
Rosehill Handicap: Dulcedo;
next, Flamari.
Carlingford Mile: King Moab ;
next, Bulletin.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Wyndham Handicap: Windmar ;
next, Petit Fils or Musste.
February Trial: East Cape ; next,
Seymour.
Marine Handicap: Young Idea;
next, Closing Time.


v "' : '
"Tteoct £>■ imiAeJjf-
?Me. wnU3t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
IHE
fOB
Nt*2-=
wm
Rtf*' 1
BtSl
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
• UNDERWEAR
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS 'OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
ai
ii
■
V
Iwtiy i 11> r*>
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Petersen has become British heavy-
weight champion by outpointing Harvey
at Wembley. Well whipped by the
German Neusel, who proved no match
for the oft-defeated Camera, Petersen
can’t be much good, and Palmer may
have cause to regret that he didn’t go
back to England to meet the “champion”
instead of - staying in Australia. Win or
lose, he would have earned more in one
match with Petersen than he will get for
several bouts in Australia.
* * * *
Though twice beaten by the hard-
punching negro, Kelly, Merlo Preciso
has won the respect of Sydney crowds
by virtue of his fine skill and pluck.
In the first meeting the Italian was dis-
abled by a wild butt, and should have
got the decision. In the return match
he again outpointed the black, but in
the seventh round he got distinctly the
worse of a collision of heads. In the
eighth round he was knocked out. “Best
heavyweight fight for years” was the
verdict of the “house” —there was £6OO-
- in it. A Preciso rib was broken.
=N * * *
“Mitt Shover”: Max Schmelling, who
was world champion once, returned to
America in quest of a match with Brad-
dock. The bowelless N.Y. Boxing Com-
mission has stepped in and declared that
before Max can get a scrap with the
champion he must show his mettle by
walloping Joe Louis, an. unpleasant
colored person with a habit of outing his
men in the opening round. It is either
that or back to Germany for Max.
Bert) I Backed it for a. yvim
" f
• A.UD IT EVEN PL\C|SD
Bert \ It w/xs g,wbu to me ab a
dead cert,"
GER?T time B\Cl< A, UlsIE OWE l "
Ins and Outs
The Victorians made a spirited fourth-
innings attempt to get 442 required in
the match with N. S. Wales at Sydney.
Their last' wicket fell at 415 with 16
minutes to go ; over-eagerness (four men
were run out) beat them. Eight bats-
men had double figures opposite their
names: Lee (85, run out), Scaife (70),
Rigg (54) and Hassett (51) did best. White
got 4 for 114—7 for 139 in the match.
Hynes, 6 for 25 in Victoria’s first knock,
was nil for 76 in the second.
* * * *
Transvaal, though the team included
six internationals, made a poor showing
against the Australians. The locals piled
up 160 in their first try, Rowan, Coen
and Mitchell each getting over 30. Their
second knock was worth 157 only, bowler
Langton hitting three sixes in the death
flurry. McCormick (5-59), Grimmett
(5-114) and O’Reilly (7-110) got the
wickets. As the Australians had col-
lected 346 (Fingleton 110 ; Langton 4-81)
the travellers won by an innings and 29.
* * * *
“Ba”: Fijians and Maorilanders have
been engaged in a cricket tourney. M.L.
won the first match, Fiji the second ; in
this Edward Cakobau, great-grandson of
the old “King” whom a past age knew
as “Thakambau,” made 92 n. 0., including
the winning smack. M.L. skipper Massey
carried on the innings to give the batsman
a chance to get three figures, which he
did. In the days of his esteemed great-
grandpapa the occasion would have been
celebrated by the killing and eating of
a hundred slaves or so. Now, under
Methody rule, the rival teams were prob-
ably regaled on buns and lemonade.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The Queensland C.A.,
which seems to have an infinite capacity
for falling foul of its players, issued a
ukase that those selected for the team
to play Victoria must all attend practice
on a certain day. All did but Andrews.
He was excluded from the team. Now
there is talk of importing Constantine,
Nourse, Brown and Fingleton for the
“Queensland” eleven. It might be wiser
to get a new Q.C.A.
* * * *
“Cotton Wool”: It is pathetic to watch
the efforts of most contemporary bats-
men on the very rare occasions on which
they strike a sticky wicket. The idiotic
practice of covering the wicket has gone
50 per cent, of the way towards making
batting mechanical and scoring auto-
matic. Before covering started every
team contained a batsman who could
be relied on to make runs on the most
loquacious wicket. How many to-day
could emulate Harry Graham’s feat of
scoring 107 on a quagmire pitch, and
that against such sticky-wicket cham-
pions as Peel and Briggs?
* * * *
“Old Q.”: I see that N.S.W. and
South Aus. are having a friendly barge
over their match in Sydney, which was
“abandoned” in consequence of King
George’s death. N.S.W. is claiming a first-
innings win, and if the game had been
discontinued by rain or the pitch catch-
ing fire the claim would have been a
correct one. Sheffield Shield rule 3A is
emphatic on the subject. It says that
in the event of a match being abandoned
each team shall score two points. ‘
* * * *
Peggy Antonio has been putting up
great records again this season. She
has already taken 47 wickets at 5, while
with the bat she is the girl Bradman.
Peggy is a native of Melbourne; father,
a Chilean.
Hs # * ♦
“Simba”: I am getting anxious about
the Australian Eleven. Hearing that an
unwanted lion was to be executed at
Bloemfontein Zoo, Oldfield jumped in
and bought it for Taronga. In the same
paper containing the cable appeared a
notice saying that Taronga was so lousy
with lions that it had a nice young one
for sale for £l5. What Oldfield will do
now is uncertain. He might try selling
the beast to the Board of Control for use
as a deterrent to bodyline bowling. The
spectacle of the ferocious patrons of Syd-
ney Cricket Ground roaring in unison
Ad leones with thumbs turned down
when a fast bowler laid out another
batsman would provide rare copy for
the British papers.
The Nineteenth Hole
C. H. Fawcett must be added to the
list of golfers who have collapsed and
expired while engaging in the apparently
leisurely game. When the seizure over-
took him he was playing in a foursomes
at Royal Sydney. Fawcett was probably
the most consistently accurate golfer in
Australia, and was unrivalled in four-
somes. Luck had not been kind to him
of late, for an eye affection was followed
by a broken arm, which kept him out of
the game for some time. He won the
N.S.W. and Victorian championships and
many other first-class events in those
and other States. A charming per-
sonality, with hosts of friends (he was a
Digger, and a good one), he was only 53
at the finish.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The U.S.A. tour of the
Australian 'golfers has been a bit of a
washout. In spite of tales told on this
side of the Tom Tiddler’s ground cov-
ered with easy money awaiting profes-
sionals there, it turns out that the popu-
larity of exhibition golf is waning and
that promoters of tourneys are losing
money every time. The much-vaunted
advertising revenue from manufacturers
of golf goods is also a dream. As a result
the tour will be cut short and the team
will probably leave ’Frisco by the Mon-
terey on March 4. The lads will play
at Honolulu and probably at Auckland
on the way through.
“Sandringham”: Victorian golf begins
officially on February 22 with the open-
ing round of the junior pennant. Then
a series of club championships and open
meetings lead up to the State profes-
sional championships from August 17-
22. Country Week follows, and the
amateur championship will be contested
from August 28 to September 3. This
year the Australian championships will
be staged at Metropolitan, and they run
from September 21 to October 2. Then
another run of club events until the finals
of the senior pennant on December 5.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Caloundra, the pretty
seaside resort some 60 miles north of
Brisbane, at the entrance of Bribie Pas-
sage, claims to have discovered, with the
assistance of the State Governor, the
finest golf course in the Commonwealth.
It is close to the township, near Battery
Hill, and adjoins the surfing front of
Dickie Beach, named after a small
steamer wrecked there years agone.
Arrangements are being made by the
Shire Council to secure it —most of it is
Crown land, of little use for any other
purpose—under perpetual lease as an
additional attraction to tourists.
* * ❖ *
“Hoylake”: Golfers bound for Britain
should remember that the Lucifer Golf-
ing Society holds its ninth annual invita-
tion meeting on July 6 and later, entries
closing on May 31. The address is 81
Gracechurch-street, London; the entry
should state the date of arrival in Britain,
together with a British address and club
certificates of handicaps. The tourney
is specially for overseas golfers, and
those in the final for the Lucifer trophy—
there are several events —are given mem-
bers’ rights and privileges on a number
of British courses.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: Of some municipal
golf links the less said the better. On
the other hand, some councils realise
what a paying asset a decently kept and
supervised course can be to a munici-
pality, and reap their reward. A notable
instance is Katoomba (N.S.W.). The
course is one of the finest outside Sydney,
and is a haven for holiday-making
golfers. In the past year 11,500 of these
took out tickets, while cits, also give the
enterprise solid support the year round.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: American professional
golf is losing a picturesque personality—
Leo Diegel, the “spreadeagle putter.”
Leo says his game has suffered from a
shoulder injury received when in Aus-
tralia last year. After he won the Aus-
tralian professional championship at Mel-
bourne, Diegel was skylarking with an-
other member of the Yankee team when
his shoulder crocked and has refused to
recover. However, as Leo says he has
£BO,OOO stacked on its edges, he seems to
have little cause for worry.
• “Susie Swattit”: The N.S.W. golfing
girls have drawn up their official pro-
gramme for 1936, which kicks off with
the open summer meeting at Wollon-
gong. Country championships, includ-
ing the combined country fixture at the
Sydney Lakes club, are among the items,
and a match with professionals on June
12 is an attractive-looking proposition.
The State championships will be played
from July 2 to 13 at Royal Sydney.
There will be an exodus of every female
golfer who can raise the fare to Adel-
aide for the Australian championships
from August 24 to September 3.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian tennis singles cham-
pionship ended, as most expected, in a
win for Quist, though he had a hard
tussle with Crawford. The ex-champion
ran the new man to five sets —6-2, 6-3,
4-6, 3.-6, 9-7. Quist, now champion of
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria and Aus-
tralia, also took the doubles title. With
Turnbull he downed Crawford and
McGrath by 3 sets to 2. Joan Hartigan
won the women’s singles by defeating
Miss Wynne in straight sets.
* * * *
“Bo”: The Australian championships
cleared the Davis Cup air. Crawford,


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
February Issue Now on Sale.
ARE PRICES TOO HIGH?
THE CEMENT INDUSTRY.
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS.
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £ll2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Positions Vacant.
AUSTRALIA FIRST PARTY.
Wanted a young man —not more than
35 years of age —of good personality
and education—not necessarily university
—willing to actively devote the whole or
part of his time to “Australia First
political propaganda (having as its object
the formation of a new Australian poli-
tical party).
He would need to be Australian-born
of British Aryan stock; and feel fully
sympathetic with the nature of the par-
ticular propaganda. He would need to
be able to write and speak clearly and
forcibly; and have capacity for research.
He would be required to travel for pro-
paganda purposes throughout the Sydney
metropolitan area, and address audiences.
On request, intending applicants would
be sent preliminary propaganda leaflets.
Apply J. 8., Box 1 783 K, G.P.0., Sydney.
Public Notice.
THE LATE WILLIAM COPE BEQUESTS.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.)
and DONALD MACINTYRE, Executors ol
the Will of the late William Cope, invite
applications from persons, trustees or associ-
ations genuinely eligible to participate in the
disbursement of the undermentioned Funds
which they are holding under the following
provisions of the Will: — „
1 FOR WAR TROPHIES AND MEMO-
RIALS.
.. .to pay or apply at such time or times
as they may think fit the sum of One
thousand five hundred pounds in or to-
wards the erection or upkeep of War
Trophies or MEMORIALS or Halls,
Hospitals or tree- or flower-planting in
parks or streets or other public places in
Australia.”
2. FOR PROTECTION OF NATIVE BIRDS.
ANIMALS, TREES AND FLOWERS.
“ to pay a further sum of One thou-
sand pounds as and in such amounts and
contributions and at such times and to
such persons, associations or trustees as
they shall think fit in or for protecting
native birds, animals, trees and flowers,
or in planting or caring for trees or flowers
of any kind, and in providing or contribut-
ing towards sanctuary for the same.”
All such applications will be considered by
the Executors, and should be addressed to the
Manager, Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.),
Box 4172 X, G.P.0., Sydney, on or before the
29th day of February, 1936.
Patents.
DIFFERENTIAL ORE FLOTATION
PROCESS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
6541/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
FERROUS METAL AND PROCESS FOR
PRODUCING SAME.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10129/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Jo EUROPE via
UL
rU.
*4
MPtPii
nftiiu
-in Canada's
Rockies
Only reached by
Canadian Pacific
Glistening snow peaks . . .
tinkling streams . . . quiet
forests . . . placid lakes.
A veritable fairyland in the
heart of the Canadian Rock-
ies. Days of sport and
adventure. C.P.R. Hotel accom-
modation . . . cuisine . . . personal
service all at surprisingly
moderate rates.
Write for illustrated literature.
Any Tourist Booking' Ageney or
CANADIAN I'ACIITC.
217 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Qreatest Travel System
TRAI NS STEAM ERS HOTELS
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 9th Floor, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collin-, Streee.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street.
satisfied with his form after taking Quist
to five sets, is available. So is McGrath,
subject to a satisfactory report from his
doctor; and Australia should have a
stronger team than last year, with Quist
as the new pivot. The doubles combina-
tion has still to be worked out. The three
mentioned are capital exponents of
doubles play, and it might be wise to try
McGrath and Quist, resting Crawford
for singles. Sproule will be the player-
manager, though his play will no doubt
be limited to tournaments and match-
practice for the team.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Cochet, backed by the
Willard brothers and Cummings, is now
on his way to M.L. after a tour of Aus-
tralian States as far as Adelaide, in
which he and his improvised “circus”
proved highly popular. In M.L. they will
have to confine themselves to exhibition
matches, unless some amateur or other
can steel himself to turn professional.
On his arrival in Australia Cochet faced
a barrage of icy exclusiveness from the
amateur tennis authorities. -This he
quickly overcame.
Miscellaneo us
Victoria prevailed in the track and
field events at Adelaide, though the
absence of N.S.W. stars like Metcalfe
and Hampson made this a certainty: Vic-
toria 12 wins, N.S.W. five, S. Aus. four,
Westralia two, Queensland one and Tassie
nil. New records were Backhouse’s 3min.
59sec. in the 1500 metres (Australian),
Irwin’s lmin. 55 3-ssec. in the 800
metres (Australian) and F. Woodhouse’s
13ft. 3fin. for the pole vault (Australian).
Clarice Kennedy had the fine record of
four wins and a third in five starts, a
record for the Games and one that
ought to waft the young woman to
Berlin.
Features of the water-splashing section
of the National Games at Adelaide were
the good times made in the Unley pool and
the series of shocks suffered by N.S.W.
swimmers, Pat Norton, who won both
100 yards free-style (in lmin. 4sec.) and
backstroke (in lmin. 13 l-ssec.), and Clare
Dennis (220 yards breaststroke, 3min.
17sec.) excepted. Kendall was beaten by
Tremble (Q.) in the 100 yards free-style
(55 4-ssec.), and Noel Ryan was un-
placed in the 440 yards, won by Craw-
ford, of Victoria (smin. 14 4-ssec.);
Witt (Q.) was second and Herford
(N.S.W.) third. Westralia was strongly
represented by Oliver, a close third in
the 100 yards free-style and first in the
100 yards backstroke (lmin. 4 2-ssec.),
and by Evelyn de Lacey, an easy win-
ner of the 440 (in 6min. 3sec.) and
second —beaten by a touch —in the 100
yards free-style.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Mathieson wasn’t the only
Maoriland swimmer to suffer through
the neglect of officialdom (B. 22 /1 / ’36).
After they had moved on to Melbourne
the other member of the team, Jarvis,
won the Victorian 100 yards freestyle
championship in 54sec., a fifth better
than Vockler’s record. Next day the
manager of the Olympic pool discovered
that the course was three yards eight
inches short, “a mark where a rope is
put down for diving competitions” hav-
ing been mistaken for the 100-yard mark.
Jarvis had never done anything like the
time, and he couldn’t have covered those
three yards in a fifth of a second, but
it’s annoying to be told you’ve broken a
record when you haven’t. There’s a lot
of carelessness in the running of sport
in Australia —in swimming more, per-
haps, than in any other.
“Hawthorn”: Certain Melbourne
swimmers are nursing a grievance over
the length of the two M.L. swimming
champions who have been performing
down there. Mathieson is 6ft. long, but
his mate, Jarvis, stretches out to 6ft. sin.
It is obvious to the least mathematically
minded that the last-named, at any rate,
has only to fall flat on the water at the
start to have about 18 inches’ start of the
other competitors. A remedy is difficult
to find, other than shortening the legs of
Jarvis, who would probably object.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: All-Black footballers
have brought off a double event in two
widely-separated quarters of the globe.
In Vancouver the team homing from
Britain downed the local men 32-0 ; at
Tokio the M.L. Universities side won its
first engagement by defeating Western
Japan 31-3.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
is building a new clubhouse, to cost
£lOO,OOO, on the latest American model.
The old club in Phillip-street, Sydney,
has been a money-spinner, and, now
that profits from the game itself in nor-
mal seasons are not what they used to
be, an extension of its earning capacity
will be welcome
* * # si
“Outside Right”: South Aus. Soccer
people intend to make a tourney a feature
of their State centenary jubilations.
Teams from all the States will compete
for the British Association Cup presented
in 1924 by the visiting British team on
behalf of their home authorities. It is a
fine trophy, worth £3OO, but has aroused
little interest in Australia. The last com-
petition for it was in 1932, when N.S.W.
won from the Wheatfielders. There will
also be a special competition for naval
teams.
* i[i * $
“Rover”: Sydney Australian Rules
footballers start their season on April
25 with the first round of the club com-
petition. As usual, no attempt is to be
made to encourage the game in the
country. Canberra has asked for a match
with a Sydney team at Manuka on May
6, and the League has passed the matter
on to those city clubs which will be dis-
engaged that day without doing anything
itself. This is bad work, and it is not
astonishing that the national game lan-
guishes in N.S.W. However, a Victorian
club team is to play N.S.W. at S.C.G.
at the end of June.
-j- *l ! -!*
“Susie Swattit”: The girls’ hockey
team for the U.S.A. has been chosen.
Of the 14 players, Victoria supplies four,
N.S.W. and S. Aus. three apiece, West-
ralia and Tassie two apiece. Loud cater-
waulings from Queensland may be
expected. Each member pays her whack
of the expenses, reckoned at about £l5O.
Fancy our lilywhite amateur cricket and
tennis players coming at a proposition
like that!
% * * ❖
“Benoni”: Cabled that an extra cricket
match arranged between the Australians
and Transvaal for March 7-10 has been
cancelled. Instead, the travellers will
meet a baseball team from the Rand,
proceeds to go to the Cameron Fund.
The Witwatersrand was once a strong-
hold of baseball, whatever it may be
now. Before the Boer War there was a
strong Yankee element, and this scoffed
at cricket and Rugby in favor of its
national version of rounders. ' None of
our lads has set the Murray on fire with
his baseball glory, but they will no
doubt make some sort of fist of the
game. Their great handicap will be lack
of practice in swearing at the umpire.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Sydney G.P.S. rowing
races, to be held on the Nepean at Pen-
rith, will take place probably about the
middle of April. Shire officials are to
arrange with the railway authorities for
sidings and platforms to take spectators
to the banks on each side of the river,
thus cutting out a dusty walk from the
station. The course will be that used
by the N.S.W.R.A. for the State and
inter-State championships, finishing just
north of the bridge.


Hot Water
r.
r oe 4
*
WArfe R ose
DOMESTIC BDILERS
Not only is White Rose an efficient boiler, but it is also a
definite saver of labor and conserver of your energy.
It is most reasonable to instal, and its maintenance costs
are nil.
In operation it burns any type of fuel—coke, wool or coal.
Special grates are supplied for briquettes.
So economical is White Rose that, burning coke, you get
as much as 34 gallons for about a penny—whilst as far as
wood-burning is concerned we Venture to suggest that it
would amount only to the cost of carting.
It might interest you to know that White Rose boilers that
have been installed for as long as 25 years have never
required any repair work—simply because they’re solidly
constructed and they HAVEN’T any elements to burn out.
7 fyen£
JOHN OANKS e SON ltd:
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
C.l
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
if
KITCHEN
m
ws<
oi DAIRY
A MIXED GRILL.
“Jungor”: News of great events travels
with lightning-like speed nowadays to the
most remote places, yet doubtless there
are battlers outside Australia’s beaten
tracks who haven’t yet heard of King
George’s death and may not do so for
many a day. I recall in 1910 a couple of
prospectors who had just returned from
a six months’ trip into the country north-
east of Laverton (W.A.) drifting into
the goldfields newspaper office where I
was employed. King Edward had been
dead four months, but it turned out that
they had never heard of it until a week
or two previously, when they were
almost in touch with civilisation again.
“And it’s a queer thing,” one of them
added reflectively, “that it was an abo.
who gave us the news.”
* * * *
“Rabbits’ Eggs”: I have met only one
man who was at school with Kipling at
Westward Ho. He was a doctor in
Westralia, and his recollections of
“Beetle” were not very distinct. But he
made it perfectly clear that the attributes
with which some of the characters in
Stalky and Co. are invested were quite
beyond his own conception and imagi-
nation. I have often wondered how some
of them, particularly *the masters, re-
garded the easily identifiable portraits or
caricatures of themselves when the book
came out. The chances are that most of
them were alive— Stalky and Co. was
published only 17 years after the author
left school. The headmaster and the
chaplain would have nothing to com-
plain of, but it was a different matter for
King and “Heffy” Prout, especially the
latter. And the original of Prout, as
Kipling’s housemaster, would be readily
apparent.
“Adel.”: Does anyone remember the
extraordinarily graceful remark Kipling
made when he was here? “I don’t pro-
pose to write anything about Australia at
present, although there is magnificent
material. You have a better man than
me here already. Rolf Boldrewood has
got this country pre-empted. He may
not have made very much out of Rob-
bery Under Arms, but it is a great work.”
* * * *
“Crow’s Nest”: “Nip” comes a couple
of croppers himself (B. 15/1/ ’36) in try-
ing to drag “Kellick” (B. 8/1 / ’36) out
of the mud regarding Lieut, (now Vice-
Admiral) Evans. Scott, heading Pole-
ward with Wilson, Oates, Bowers and
Petty-Officer Evans, parted from Lieut.
Evans in 87° 32' S. —a position on the
polar plateau over 130 miles south from
the head of the Beardmore Glacier.
Lieut. Evans’s companions, whose de-
votion to their leader saved his life, were
Petty-Officer Crean and Stoker Lashley,
not Clissold and Day.
* * * *
“Quayeau”: If a recent invention by
a retired English garage proprietor turns
out to be as foolproof as he claims, one
of the navy’s greatest bugbears will be
effectively scotched. The device is a
hermetically-sealed “rescue room,” cap-
able of holding the entire crew, built
into the side of a submarine. It has
specially-contrived two-way hatches
allowing access from the submarine
proper, and release gear enabling the
crew to detach the compartment from
the vessel, thus allowing it to rise from
any depth to the surface. As the need
would arise only on the submarine’s de-
veloping a defect serious enough to send
ii helpless to the bottom, release would
obviously have to be effected before the
sea-floor was reached, or the sub. might
rest with the “release room” underneath,
thus rendering the crew as helpless as
hitherto. If the invention is approved,
submarine building will be entirely revo-
lutionised.
* * * *
“G.M.”: The ways of the British in-
vestor are certainly mysterious. He re-
fuses to subscribe to the Commonwealth
conversion loan, returning a trifle more
than 3 p.c., but rushes Siamese four per
cents. No sane investor would regard
the credit of Siam as superior to that of
the Commonwealth, and the explanation
that “the international situation” affects
subscriptions may be well offset by the
reports of unrest and possible revolution
which have come from Siam. Anyhow,
the ruler of Siam abdicated. Isaac Isaacs
never found it necessary to follow the
example.
* * * *
“X. Rounds”: A century ago the lad
on police court rounds for the Sydney
“Gazette” turned in some snappy stuff.
“Isabella Thomas,” he writes in July,
1836, “a dashing commodity with a
catskin boa, was charged with being
emphatically drunk, and while thus in-
spired astonishing the passers-by with a
train of ideas that were not quite the
thing. After an attempt to raise the
wind on the catskin she tripped to the
stocks with an air as though leading
down a country dance.” “John Sen-
nett, with a face resembling a pancake
fried ugly, pulled up his leeboards until
they settled under his listeners, and
accused the arresting constable of having
purloined him.” “We observed the
stocks full of drunkards yesterday morn-
ing, male and female —in fact, an over-
stock.” Come on, you budding North-
cliffes, and try to better those?
* * * *
“Scribe”: Justice Lowe, of Victoria,
returned from a world tour, expressed
surprise that in French courts the press
photographers are given an open go. But
the practice is not unknown in London ;
when I was there in 1921 the beautiful
Mrs. Bamberger, who was being tried for
perjury, was photographed day after day
without any objection being raised. The
first press photograph I ever remember
being taken during the progress of any
court proceedings in this country was at
Melb. Morgue during the inquest concern-
ing the notorious boot-trunk case. Coroner
Morrison gave the necessary permission,
the accused raised no objection, and
when one of them, a damsel who had
been invested by the public with a fic-
titious air of romance, was giving her
evidence, the flashlight was fired and the
papers reproduced the picture. But in
the higher courts of Australia the man
who enters with a camera runs grave
risks ; even an artist sketching quietly
in a back row is liable to strike trouble.
* * * *
“Wakooka”: The S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize committee can show
A.B.C. a few points. Despite the colossal
task of passing judgment on 210 full-
length novels, the results of the 1935
competition were published within two
months of the closing date. A.B.C.
announced that the results of a twenty-
minute radio play competition which
closed on August 31, 1935, would prob-
ably be available towards the end of
January, 1936.
* * * *
“El V.”: The British authorities in
Egypt were slow if they have only now
developed a motor type which will carry
30cwt. over bad sand and have had to
go to the camel for their technique. Six-
teen years ago, before the days of low-
pressure balloon tyres, I was using
doubled tyres with the pressure let down
for Centralian sand, and a few years
afterwards, when making an overseas trip
which included some deserts, I persuaded
a big English tyre manufacturer to make
me a specially treaded 64in. tyre which,
in sand, was let down to 12-151 b. pres-
sures. Against the camel tyre
with its 30cwt. load, I have carried 24-
tons over bad sand which baffled ordi-
nary cars on my smaller section. But
perhaps the Egyptians have not learnt
sand-driving, which is an art in itself,
not to be acquired in 10 minutes. The
main secrets are keeping dead straight
regardless of contour, a medium low
gear and a knack of imparting a slight
roll which can be achieved only after
careful pressure experiments.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Recently I listened'to Law-
son, M.H.R., give a most interesting
account of his trip abroad. He told us,
inter alia, of an interview with the great
Musso., and here follow some of the
leading questions put to our youthful
member by the Italian dictator. What is
the size of our (Australian) navy and
also our army? In the event of any
country declaring war on England, would
Australia be compelled to render assis-
tance? How stands our air defence?
These are a few that I remember. Fair
questions, perhaps, from Musso.’s point
of view, but it amazed me to learn that
the wandering member had answered
such questions “to the best of my ability.”
Isn’t it time a gag was put on some of
our politicians? I gathered also that
when the member for Macquarie asked
Musso. questions, the replies were mostly
grins.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: The popular delusion
that persons falling from any consider-
able height are insensible or dead before
they reach the ground has again been dis-
proved experimentally, this time in
America. A trained observer jumped
from an aeroplane travelling 119 m.p.h.
at 2200 feet. In 11 seconds he fell 1200
feet, turning slowly over all the way. No
sensation of falling was noticed till he
had dropped 300 feet. Throughout the
fall, there was no nausea, giddiness, or
interference with breathing or vision.
Fear went' directly the fall began, and
mental reactions were undisturbed
throughout. At 1000 feet from the
ground, whilst falling at the rate of over
100 feet per second, he pulled the open-
ing cord of a parachute and landed un-
hurt.
* * * *
“Mako”: “Marlinspike” is emphati-
cally right (B. 29/1 /’36) in his conten-
tion that Zane Grey did not invent sword-
fishing. And Maorilanders had got
beyond the dinghy stage long before the
Yankee ever met a mako. Eighteen
years ago I fished for sharks from a
good-sized launch, and far out beyond
Piercy Rock at the entrance of the Bay
of Islands a fleet of fast launches was
then occupied in chasing, and catching,
bigger game. Several Australians were
there then, and some famous English
big-fish hunters as well, and, of course,
crowds of Dominionites. What Zane
Grey did introduce to M.L. was a clutter
of fishing harness and implements that
staggered the local fishermen, who even
yet are not sure that this sort of fishing
is really sport.
* * * *
“Como”: Pitcairn Island, which is in
the news again, revealed its economic
position in Chauvel’s “Bounty” film a
few years ago. The film showed a none-
too-fertile dot in the Pacific, with no
means of landing except by surf boats,
a meagre supply of simple tools and no
agricultural implements in the accepted
sense. The local flour supply is kept up
by turning an old windlass to grind the
wheat, and there is not a circular saw on
the island—all milling is done in the
sawpits used 100 years ago. Yet there
are no unemployed ; everybody is well-
fed, and, as far as one can gather,
reasonably well-dressed, and everybody
lives in a neat weatherboard cottage in
the middle of a flower garden. The
township as a whole stands comparison
with any of its size in the world. Some
of our numerous economists might ex-
plain why it is that civilisations fitted
with every device for production can’t
make a go at it, while a remote island
without an oil engine—apparently with-
out a steam-engine —can give everybody
a decent living.
* * * *
“Upper Tooting,” his yarn:
An Australian I know rose from humble
beginnings to affluence, and, after a big clean-
up, went off to live the rest of his life in Eng-
land and achieve a lifelong ambition to be a
Piccadilly clubman. He was making solid pro-
gress when one day an apparition appeared
in Regent-street —a Yankee showman whom
he had been associated with in Sydney and to
w'hom he owed some of his success. The Yank
was “socially impossible,” but he couldn’t be
dodged. He came up with glad hand extended
and a genial smile all over his face. The Aus-
tralian was ill at ease. He had an important
date only a few minutes ahead, and he shuffled
in an embarrassed manner. At last he had to
blurt out the truth. “Look here, Woodchuck,
old man; I’ll see you later, but I’ve got an
important appointment with Lord Nozoo." The
Yank’s face beamed. “What!” he cried, “a real
lord. Oh, I’ll stay; I’d like to meet a lord."
The Australian groaned, and before he could
think up another Lord Nozoo came along and
greeted him cordially. There was nothing for it.
“Lord Nozoo,” he said. “May I introduce you
to Mr. Homer B. Woodchuck, of Seattle? I
used to know him in Australia.” The Yank
grabbed the hand of the titled one. “This is
some real little surprise,” he observed. “Fancy
you being a lord; you look just like an ornery
guy. I’ve always wanted to see a real lord, not
one of those phony ones.” Homer continued
his monologue, and the Australian nearly
wept with humiliation, but Lord Nozoo himself
seemed vastly amused. As they strolled along,
the Australian found himself sidetracked; the
others did all the conversing, and eventually
Lord Nozoo was so taken by the stranger that
he shook off the Australian and went off with
the vulgarian. During the rest of the Yank's
stay in London the Australian saw nothing of
the lord. He was out every day with his bosom
pal Homer B. Woodchuck.


THE
lINITCn INSURANCE
U 11 1 ILU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A- C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
uen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
.. -x-
-}i ■ N
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Rtronglv-made, grained leather ease free with each lazor.
THE PLL'll RAZOR GUARD, for fin., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street. Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keDt in order for two
years free of charge.
and
Sale*
'Seiilire
C R E D O ~ We believe in the Gerrard system and in the goods
we sell; the sound value of the continuous service that follows
every sale. We believe this business grows each year because of
the sound, honest basis on which it builds ; and because of the
recognition of true economy by users throughout Australia.
JSSSsSt,
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide. Hobart
gM A truly fine hotel. A distinguished .MS
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22 1--JOM
HOVEL'
iSYDNEIi
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
“Sharemarket Strong”—For How
Long?
The holder of investment shares has
seen little in the quotations lately to
disturb him. On the contrary, most
stocks have firmed, and some laggards
such as United Provisions ords., Gartrell
White and one or two others which
remained depressed longer than the
average have shown signs of definite im-
provement. Bank shares, after several
false alarms on other occasions, have ex-
perienced a sudden revival of interest
following the Commercial of Sydney’s
increased distribution.
Dunlop-Perdriau is one of the few
depressed issues. J. C. Ludowici, which
is susceptible to the hides market, is not
so high as it was. Beale prefs. are low,
and talkie-show scrip is not keenly sought
after. That is about as dark as the
picture, reflected in the mirror of the
sharemarket, can be made to look.
Practically every industry is busy at
the moment, judged by 1932 standards.
Price levels remain stable, interest costs
are little higher, and wages have shown
moderate upward movement, though the
spread of employment has greatly in-
creased the general purchasing power.
With the written-down book values neces-
sitated by slump, and many economies
of the period still in force, a quick
recovery was almost bound to be
shown in company earnings under
present improved trading conditions.
So long as price levels and wages keep
in balance and neither run up disturb-
ingly—high nominal figures, or booms,
always throw trade out of gear—results
of better export prices and the stimulus
following general national development
should continue to be shown in company
earnings.
Factory activity has disclosed no sign
of having reached its peak so far;
8.H.P., which exported 10,000 tons of
steel to India last year, has had to turn
down foreign orders lately owing to the
great local demand. Many other manu-
facturers are similarly busy. Building is
going ahead on an increasing scale,
retailers report a volume of turnover
rarely equalled, consumption of gas and
electricity has mounted above the highest
levels of the boom years, and transport
figures show a great recovery in freight
and passenger traffic.
So far as “good investments” are con-
cerned, however, it is all a matter of
comparative worth. Profit - earning
capacity is the first essential, qualified by
probable stability and strength of earn-
ing power. Money rates (current interest)
have then to be compared with immediate
yields on the shares under consideration,
due regard being given to the possibility
of higher returns from ordinary stocks
in the future.
The natural increase in Australia’s
population has not been very great since
the war. Immigration helped, but when
depression (and Lang) came emigration
predominated for a time. The absorp-
tion of migrants in the Commonwealth
during 1920-29 was no doubt assisted
by overseas borrowing; that financial
policy did us little lasting good, and
loaded us with a burden of “works” and
interest. Yet at the present time our
employment position would do credit to
most countries of the world, and there
is small doubt that the state of affairs
could be improved on in more capable
hands. Population, so important from a
national viewpoint, also governs the out-
look of industries and investments to a
large extent. Some industries have prac-
tically the whole Australian market to
themselves ; except where there is under-
consumption, greater demand in such
cases will come only from greater
population.
Provided a buyer of ordinary shares is
satisfied with the present return and
prospects, he buys at the moment with
reasonable safety. With stocks of out-
standing merit—such as Broken Hill
Prop., most of the banks, some of the
breweries and steamship cos. and well-
established manufacturers —it is hard to
see where he could place his money to
better advantage.
After Clutha Developments, Placer’s
subsidiary, surrendered its option over
the Middle Creek properties at Avoca
(Vic.), New Middle Creek Alluvials,
N.L., the owner, checkbored portions of
the leases. The work “failed to disclose
“Were goin' on strike fr shorter hours, Hon. Are you with us ?”
“Py korry, NO/ Ploomin dinner hour only t'ree-quarter already !”
payable gold values” ; and the presence
of hard cement bands in the wash dirt
rendered the property unsuitable for
bucket-dredging in any case. The leases
are to be abandoned. So ends another
fiasco in which the public, expecting
great things (as much as £27 per 55.-paid
share was quoted), got a smack in the
eye at the finish. In March, 1935, the
directors “anticipated” that the Placer
concern would exercise its option, “to
the great benefit of shareholders.”
Consideration is being given to a pro-
posal to share in the development of
“another proposition of promise.”
What', another?
* * * *
New Occidental (N.S.W.), on the data
available, suggested the makings of
a really good mine. But December’s
return averaged l|dwt. below that for
November, and the reason hasn’t been
fully explained. Shareholders, always a
bit nervy in such cases, are the more so
by reason of the fact that sharebrokers
are interested in the show. Perhaps the
first balance sheet of the co. as a pro-
ducer will establish a more solid basis for
valuation purposes. Mt. Morgan’s
accounts are a model of lucidity in this
respect. There was heavy selling of
Occis. last week, the price drifting to
around 12s. 6d.
* * * :!:
Electrolytic copper was about £1 a
ton stronger last week, and the share-
market appears to support the sugges-
tion (B. 22/1/’36) that a higher dis-
tribution should be possible by Mt.
Lyell (Tas.) in the near future if the
metal keeps steady. Since the ’Changes
opened after the holidays Lyell £1 shares
have advanced 3s. to 235. Some good
work has been put in at Queenstown dur-
ing the past half-dozen years. The North
Lyell tunnel, improvements in the hydro-
electric power supply, refinements in re-
covery methods and reductions in min-
ing costs have all contributed to the more
economical running of the mine, which
kept open during the worst of the depres-
sion.
“Fi. Fa.”: A remarkable range of
business activity was outlined at a recent
Brisbane examination in bankruptcy.
It appeared that the bankrupt, after
walking out from a tobacco and
hairdressing business in 1933, had car-
ried on as a racing tipster and herbal
chemist, with a research laboratory in
addition. Later he went in for a con-
traceptive business, and ran a patent bird-
lime, together with the sale of a tattoo-
removal application. Incidentally, he
read horoscopes, and conducted a
flourishing business as a prophet at
2s. 6d. for five prophecies. The sale of
herbal tobacco and a line of lucky
charms were later combined with a matri-
monial and introduction bureau, together
with a racing and betting system. Leas-
ing and owning racehorses helped the
other activities along until the approach
of Christmas afforded an opening for a
hamper service. He also sold birds, and
had large dealings in seed for their cap-
ture. And all this while not yet 24. An
enterprising young man!
* * *
February, May and September of 1935
were months when a large volume of
mortgage business was done in N. S.
Wales.at rates of 4} p.c. or under. Since
September there has been a drift towards
higher rates, in December 30 p.c. of
mortgages registered being in the over-
5-p.c.-and-under-6-p.c. class. In the
4y-p.c.-or-under class 42 p.c. was put
through, as against 44, 46 and 53 p.c.
in the three preceding months.
# sH * *
Mt. Isa’s output of silver during its
last financial year increased 642,0000 z.
to 2,326,9820 z. Production of lead
(38,168 tons) was up slightly. The
accounts showed a loss of £8195, as
against a debit of £166,315 in the pre-
vious year. At the end of the year a
change-over from treatment of car-
bonate ores to sulphides was necessary ;
the deeper stone contains zinc, and is
somewhat poorer in lead. In the old
days at the Barrier zinc was another
name for the Devil until Potter and De
Bavay perfected their minerals-separa-
tion processes. Isa shouldn’t have much
difficulty on the treatment side, and the
lower lead content of the sulphides
may be offset by the higher prices for
metals ruling at present (though silver,
an important item, is down). There is
a chance of a profit next year. London
prices the scrip at about 10s. (stg.).
* * * *
The market undervaluation of Kandos
Cement shares as compared with Aus-
tralian Cement scrip (each co. has a half-
interest in Aust. Portland Cement) has
been commented on several times here
within the past few months, when it was
llso pointed out that Kandos should
raise its handout from 7\ p.c. to 10 p.c.
Australian Cement has just declared a
final div. at that rate ; Kandos’s year
does not close until June 30. The Vic.
co.’s £1 scrip is at 31s. {ex div.); Kandos
16s. shares are at 245. 6d., equal to 30s.
6d. per £1 of capital. The “arbitrage” in
the prices is shrinking, but it is still there.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Among our remarkable
war news from the Ethiopian front is a'
statement concerning the profits in
smuggling petrol-tins, and the uses made
of them by the subjects of the Lion of
Judah. These include buckets, grain
measures, cooking stoves, shower baths
(a statement which, having smelt Abys-
sinians in seafaring days, I beg to doubt),
iceboxes and building material. Assuredly
an unresourceful people. About our
place we not only use petrol-tins for
these purposes, but also for chests of
drawers, windscreens for lamps and
stoves, fish-traps, baking dishes, plant-
pots and a dozen other. A lad made a
practicable diving helmet from one, with
a tyre pump air-supply. Cut diagonally,
and set in a frame one has the perfect
wash-up dish —the other half, with clean
hot water to rinse the gear, obviating
need for drying up.
$ $ * *
Wiluna treated 41,940 tons of ore
during December, a drop of 3180 tons
compared with November ; the holidays
were responsible. Fine-gold recovery
was 97250 z., down 4270 z. ; value in Aus-
tralian currency was £85,187. Working
costs (£43,350 Aust.) rose from 20s. l|d.
to 20s. Byd. per ton (including 3s. 3d.
for development). Working surplus was
£41,837 (Aust.), down £2369. It has
turned out to be a great show—a low-
grade mine that should have a satisfac-
tory life ahead of it, and at present pro-
ducing £1,000,000 worth of gold a
year. Improvements in treatment (it is
proposed to change over to smelting
shortly) should bring additional bodies of
ore into the scope of profitable mining.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Mutiny on the Bounty”
If ever a real-life story was ready-
made for the screen it was that of the
mutiny of the Bounty. The producers of
the film have wisely recognised this,
and have made but few departures from
the main facts. A fictitious Midshipman
Byam is substituted for the unfortunate
Heywood, who is relegated to an unim-
portant part. Family reasons or the law
of libel may have prompted this, or pos-
sibly a desire to find a suitable part for
Franchot Tone. Another alteration is in
the discovery of the mutineers who re-
mained in Tahiti. Actually it was Cap-
tain Edwards who brought these men
back to England, treating them most
cruelly on the way. In the film the
Pandora arrives at Tahiti and Byam (who
was not a mutineer, but was detained by
the others against his will) goes on board
eager to meet his fellow-countrymen
again. “Put that man in irons!” roars
a terrific voice. Bligh has returned! It
isn’t history, but it’s certainly a dra-
matic highlight of the play.
The producers have also played fast
and loose with Time—again to the
E.E. Horton in “Top Hat.”
advantage of the film—but apart from
these points the stickler for facts will
find little to quarrel with.
Charles Laughton is a bullying Bligh—
blustering, self-righteous, devoid of pity.
Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian has
what is perhaps the most difficult nart
he has played, in that he has continually
to hold himself in check in playing
underdog to Bligh. He acquits himself
splendidly.
If a first-voyage snotty of Franchot
Tone’s type got beyond the Bay of
Biscay without being thrown overboard,
then the old British Navy wasn’t all it’s
been cracked up to be. This critic de-
rived considerable pleasure from seeing
Tone sent up to the masthead in a hurri-
cane, and felt only slightly sorry for him
when he was locked in “Pandora’s
box.” A point where the film could
easily have fallen short is in the open-
boat trip. On this epic voyage all Bligh’s
good qualities came out—courage, leader-
ship and will power—and Laughton
makes the distinction well.
Minor parts are well filled, and the
crew of the Bounty is a fine collection
of types. The Tahitian girls have been
etherealised into something far removed
from the sirens of Cook’s and Bligh’s
day, but convention demands that.
Photography and settings are excellent,
and well in keeping with the high stan-
dard of acting set by Laughton and
Gable.
In fact, it’s a great film.
“Stars Over Broadway’ 1
Hollywood seems bent on flogging
the radio theme to death. This pic-
ture, nth of its line, deals with
the usual unknown singer who, after
moderate success, fails, and then
just as inevitably goes to Mussolini-
land (apparently no Amurrkan singer
can be a success in his own country
unless he undergoes a prolonged course
of Milan and Grand Canal), to come
back and cause a furore at the Metro-
politan. If this talkie does nothing else
it introduces a first-class voice to the
screen. James Melton may not cause
Tauber or Gigli any loss of slumber, but
he sports a lyric tenor that shines brightly
in “Celeste Ai'da.” He also contributes
numbers which, if emitted by Bing
Crosby, would be croons, but Melton’s
voice does not allow them to sink to
that. In addition, he has a pleasant per-
sonality and a good sense of comedy.
The plot is merely incidental. Pat
O’Brien, overdoing his heavy, blase air,
is a Broadway theatrical agent down on
his luck. He accidentally picks up a
singing hotel porter who turns up musi-
cal trumps, enabling O’Brien to rise to
affluence. Jane Froman is, like Melton,
another radio star who makes her initial
bow to the screen. She and Melton are
pleasing in a cleverly-produced sketch,
“At Your Service.” Jean Muir as an
aspiring singer with a nice soprano com-
pletes the quartet of stars who twinkle
over Broadway with a fair degree of
effulgence. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Return of Peter Grimm”
Also at Sydney Capitol. Talkie version
of the Belasco drama. Peter Grimm
(Lionel Barrymore), a kindly old Dutch
gardener, dies after extracting a promise
from adopted daughter Catherine (Helen
Mack) that she will marry his nephew
Frederick (Allen Vincent). Though she
is in love with Peter’s secretary, James
(James Bush), the girl dutifully consents.
Peter’s lifelong friend, Dr. Macpherson
(Edward Ellis), unsuccessfully endeavors
to induce Catherine to break the engage-
ment. Then, in an effort to undo the
results of his earthly muddling and
meddling, Peter Grimm’s spirit returns,
but his old dog is the only one who re-
cognises his presence. Eventually he
succeeds in communicating his change
of intention through a dying orphan boy
whom he had befriended. The boy tells
the doctor that Frederick is his father.
Of course, that means a reuniting of the
true lovers, and all is as it should be,
with Peter retiring happily again to the
shades, accompanied by the boy. Barry-
more gives an effective picture of the
bluff old Hollander whose dominating
manner covers a gentle heart. Edward
Ellis as the old family doctor gives his
best performance to date. Helen Mack
has the easy task of just looking beauti-
ful, and James Bush is a manly, if dry,
lover.
“Powdersmoke Range”
The film business was to a large extent
built up on a basis of stagecoaches,
redskins, fiery mustangs, two-gun men,
sheriffs, saloons and all the other para-
phernalia that used to make five minutes
of life in the Wild West only slightly
less interesting than six months in Abys-
sinia. With the coming of more sophis-
ticated films the man who could with
equal ease shoot the spots out of a play-
ing-card or the cigarette out of the vil-
lain’s mouth found that, although he was
still free to indulge in these and similar
pastimes, the cameramen were no longer
interested. But did he give up? Not
he! At least, not Harry Carey. Hoot
Gibson, Boots Mallory, Bill Desmond,
William Farnum and a score more of
him who are still doing things in the
old and approved fashion at “Powder-
smoke Range.” For some reason (econ-
omy, perhaps) the redskins are missing,
but everything else is there. The coach
is robbed, the sheriff and the saloon-
keeper (as usual) are hand in glove, men
shoot each other for business just as
much as for pleasure, a pard is addressed
as “you durned ole coyote, you,” and a
villain is “lower than a rattlesnake.”
Enough shots are fired to buy the Arma-
ment Ring a champagne supper, the
crooks “get theirs,” and all is as it should
be. But to enjoy the show to the full
one should see it as this critic did, with
a Saturday-afternoon crowd of cowboys-
in-spirit, who lived every minute of it,
fired every shot themselves and cheered
lustily when Carey and co. won the day.
At Sydney Civic.
“The Crouching Beast”
This film, also at the Civic, gives the
impression that the producers had Fritz
Kortner and a lot of Turkish uniforms
and Constantinople sets left over from
“Abdul the Damned” and didn’t want
to waste them. It deals with the adven-
tures of a British spy and an American girl
in Turkey during the war. The materials
might just as well have been thrown
away, after all. Even the small boys
who cheered themselves hoarse at Hoot
Gibson were unimpressed.
“Red Salute”
General Van Allen’s daughter (Bar-
bara Stanwyck) decided to marry a
Communist agitator, so her father shang-
haied her to Mexico in an aeroplane,
with an aunt as chaperon. Escaping
her aunt’s custody, the young lady wan-
dered into a saloon, where she proceeded
to get sozzled in the company of a
soldier (Robert Young). Soldier, who
had outstayed his leave, subsequently
bilked the saloon-keeper for the price of
two dozen drinks, and escaped (with
general’s daughter) in a stolen army car,
which he wrecked. The couple continued
their flight in a motor-caravan, also
wrecked. Lurv dawned. The general,
relieved to find that the Communist was
out of the running, welcomed the
deserter and car-purloiner with open
arms, and wedding bells chimed. This
revelation of the manners and customs of
American generals and their daughters
was witnessed at Sydney Plaza.
Lawrence Tibbett in “Metropolitan.”
“Broadway Hostess”
The sad love-story of a female crooner
(Winifred Shaw) who pined for a big-
shot gambler (Lyle Talbot). He, alas!
pinned his affections on a society gal
(Genevieve Tobin), and, moreover, mar-
ried her, and, still moreover, stayed
married to her. Things being thus, the
torch-singer married her pianist. That’s
the main theme of “Broadway Hostess.”
A little gunplay and a vast amount of
croonery are mingled with it, and the
general effect is dull, though bright
moments are afforded by A 1 Jenkins, who
becomes a social butterfly and marries a
wealthy widow. Also at the Plaza.
“No Limit”
One of those British fantasias which
belong to the era of the slapstick silents,
and which make one wish talkies hadn’t
been invented. George Formby, who
sings songs which are presumably in-
tended to be comic, but are unintelligible,
has the role of a half-witted Lancashire
lad. Florence Despard, who models her
George Marion in “Metropolitan.”
style on Grade Fields and sings on bar
counters with her skirts pulled above her
knees, is his sweetheart. Her voice is
dreadful. The young man rides in the
Tourist Trophy Race on the Isle of Man,
and wins it despite wicked rivals who
crowd him off the road every two or
three seconds. A demented grandpa on
a tricycle is featured, and the only
characters who seem to have any claim
to sanity are an assorted half-dozen of
villains. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Where’s My Man?”
Time, reign of Queen Anne; scene,
the camp of the Duke of Marlborough’s
forces in Flanders. Cicely Courtneidge is
a young woman whose rather stupid hus-
band has been snared by the press-gang,
so she enlists herself, disguised as a man,
to look after him. She proves a smart,
efficient soldier, wins promotion and,
when the Duke (Tom Walls) is captured
by the French, rescues him single-handed.
Later she unmasks the treachery of a vil-
lainous sergeant who has been selling
information to the French, and is deco-
rated with an order (unspecified) by
Queen Anne. Miss Courtneidge isn’t a
very convincing soldier, but her pert and
breezy remarks win chuckles. Walls
wears the tricorne and long ringlets of
the Duke with a fine swashbuckling air,
and invests the part with appropriate sar-
donic humor. Minor roles are well cast,
and the comedy goes with a swing. Also
at the Lyceum.
“My Marriage”
A member of New York’s Four Hun-
dred (Claire Trevor) is engaged to an-
other sprig of the American nobility
(Kent Taylor). Her father is bumped off
by gunmen, and it is disclosed that he
was a racketeer. Social ostracism looms
for the lady, but her lover remains true,
and they marry. His mother (Pauline
Frederick), feigning sympathy and affec-
tion, plots to wreck the marriage, but
experiences a change of heart when a
friend-of-the-family sleuth (Paul Kelly)
tracks the murderers to their lair and
elicits that her youngest son lured the
deceased millionaire to his doom. The
plot is poorly constructed and reeking
with improbabilities and unexplained
hiatuses, but Miss Frederick gives a
memorable picture of a warped and em-
bittered woman, and Mr. Taylor is as
sound as always in the sort of role in
which he shines. Seen at Film House
theatrette, Sydney.


VISIT
111 THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY.
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1966 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARY JANE LEE Petitioner
And THOMAS PATRICK LEE Respon-
dent.
TO THOMAS PATRICK LEE late of Main
Road Wombarra South Coast.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY JANE
LEE has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-ninth day of April a.d. 1936
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Third day of February, a.d.
1936.
For the Registrar,
C. A. H. HARMES,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
WWW*
FAMOUS PICTURE SERIES
'~7ke -most Sensational Sspionaae
of all 'Time / *
m
: ipi:
Wm
’diMMmsmmmi’Xi
SB§SS > < _J
t'tm 'l- '
>!
CvtiA
ELISSA
LANDI
PIERRE FRESNAY
JOHN LODGE
FRANK VOSPER
and a cast of
-thousands /
STUPENDOUS PRODUCTION —BRILLIANTLY DIRECTED
—LAVISH SETTINGS—COLOSSAL CAST—AN AMAZING
STORY set in a hotbed ot treachery and intrigue!
100% AUDIENCE ENTERTAINMENT THAT
WILL HOLD YOU SPELLBOUND WITH
EXCITEMENT AND SUSPENSE!
1936
Will Be Remembered by
"KOENIGSMARK"
ComvrvQ to SnfceAtaln CLCt OLuAiAaixa * * »
(ldk. YouK Local Manager about it/
“I Live My Life”
Joan Crawford is the spoilt daughter
of a Babbittish father, a member of the
smart set. She plays with an earnest
young archasologist during a yachting
trip to a Greek island. The youth
doesn’t understand the amusements of
the idle rich, follows the lady to New
York, and tells her off so good and hard
that she discovers that she loves him,
and, when he is prepared to stand on
his dignity and be rid of her for ever,
tricks him into marrying her. Dialogue
is bright, and acting well-nigh faultless.
Brian Aherne is a credible hero, Frank
Morgan a kindly, vacillating father, and
Jessie Gage a capable old woman who
bullies everybody. At Melb. Metro.
‘‘Vanessa”
Also at the Metro. Based on Wal-
pole’s novel, but differing greatly from
it, this film is notable mainly for the
performance of Australian May Robson
as the centenarian head of the strange
Herries family. Helen Hayes is Vanessa,
and Robert Montgomery the hero. Trick
photography combines actual back-
grounds of London with the action of
the play in the foreground. The
appearance of Queen Victoria and her
eldest son at a garden party of the
’eighties is convincingly done.
Some First Nights
Sydney’s Phil., instituted as a choral
organisation, made history for itself at
its 296th concert, at the Town Hall on
Thursday night, by leaving its choir off
the programme. Orchestra, under
Howard Carr, played several light selec-
tions capably, and soprano Phyllis
Thomson and basso Stanley Clarkson
gave the necessary spice of variety. Mr.
Carr’s work “The Chiffon Frock” figured
among the orchestral items, and proved
very pleasing and tuneful.
•f* •b
Melbourne Tivoli’s new programme is
rich in acrobats. Ray Rogers is a somer-
saulter of a new sort. Maurice and
Vincent are burly men who fall over
each other in remarkable ways, and
Ross Wyse and June Mann shine in less
Landscape by Robert Johnson in the Macleod Gallery,
Sydney.
boisterous gymnastics. Jack La Vier, a
trapezist, commences reclining in a rock-
ing-chair balanced on the crossbar, and
Alma Victoria uses a bicycle as an im-
petus to jumping from dizzy heights.
Angus Watson is the principal comedian,
and Cornelia and Kirdall, billed as
“exotic dancers,” perform variants of the
Apache and similar dances. Ballets are
up to standard.
.£• •[.
At Sydney Kursaal on Saturday Scott
Alexander’s players contrived to get
through “Romeo and Juliet” in 2\
hours. John Rybak found Romeo’s part
heavy. Better suited were Wilson Irv-
ing, who doubled Mercutio and the
apothecary, and Pauline Markley, who
as Juliet spoke her lines distinctly.
Current Artbursts
A mixed show at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, reintroduces impres-
sionist pictures ranging in breadth of
treatment from the work of Roland
Wakelin, who sees everything as a
series of large flat planes, to the
more detailed analyses of landscape
set forth by such painters as John Moore,
Douglas Dundas and Daryl Lindsay.
Maud Sherwood makes an effective
design with a pot of zinnias, and Alison
Rehfisch (now studying in England) has
an essay on the same theme in a vastly
different style which is equally pleasing.
Thea Proctor in “The Black Fan” depicts
the nude female form with grace and
delicacy; Gladys Owen gets some
quiet beauty into a study of pollarded
willows, and willows in full weep provide
Isabel Mackenzie with a pleasant sub-
ject. Kenneth Macqueen, ever poetic,
finds inspiration in belar scrub, and gets
beautiful curves out of (or into) even that
unpromising material. Robert Campbell’s
flower piece “Waratahs” is well-drawn
but very wintry in tone, a remark that
can be applied also to Will Ashton’s
“Sunlight, Middle Harbor” and John
Moore’s “Neilsen Park.” Arthur Murch
is represented by a nicely-brushed study
of gladioli in oils. Margaret Preston
uses Maroubra beach as a background
for a pile of fishes and shells. A Lionel
Lindsay woodcut and a Lloyd Rees
pencil-drawing round out a well-varied
show.
“Impair”: For the first time in its
naughty history the Casino at Monte
Carlo ceased play as a mark of respect
during King George’s funeral. As far
as writer knows the late King never
visited the tables, though Edward VII.
was a pretty good customer at one time.
The present King has more than once
visited “the Mount” and, presumably,
had his little flutter.
* * * *
“A.P.R.”: “Old Pressman” (B.
22/1/’36) is pleased because Australians
“are going to have an accent.” On re-
turning to Aus-
tralia 25 years ago,
I found that the
mass of the people
had a faulty articu-
lation—l wouldn’t
call it an accent.
This is becoming
more marked, and
seems to result
from laziness - to
wit, “Melbun” for
“Melbourne,” a s
quoted by “Press-
man.” Refusal to
drop the lower jaw
in the “a” and
“ow” sounds pro-
duces “meean” for
“man,” “piper” or
“poiper” for
“paper” and
“k e y o w” for
“cow.” Neglect to
use the lips in the
“o” and “u” sound results in weird mis-
pronunciations. Unmusical short cuts
abound, such as “wossat” for “what’s
that” and “orright” for “all right.” One
unfortunate aspect is that many of out-
school-teachers are afflicted with this mis-
pronunciation. In Australia, I am glad
to say, there are many who speak plain
English without an accent. I do not
mind the acquisition of an accent in the
true sense, such as the rolled “r” of the
Scot or the clear-cut, decisive twang of
the Yankee. But we do not want a faulty
articulation that bespeaks slovenliness.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
a ?'
i if
< si
33
fi ff
riil
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4 14 1 (10 lines).
ds
COM INC to SYDNEY ?
Then wire or write for reservations at Petty's
Hotel. Petty's the oldest established oi
Sydney's Hotels, will please you. Its quiet
comfort and convenient position make for an
enjoyable holiday. Tariff: Room and Breakfast
from 11/6. Inclusive, 18/-.
PETTYS
HOTEL York St. Sydney, R.J.Lanqley.Mqr.
JuTfcUGl
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors cl’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
WHEN A DOCTOR
Gets INDIGESTION
He doesn’t treat it with scorn. He realises
that neglected digestive distress may mean
danger. The Doctor knows he must get ria
of the acid and, more, he must end the
and soothe the inflamed tissues. Medical me
know nothing better than Harrison-Made
Stomach Powder, made on formula ot
famous Prof. H. Maclean, of St. Th°mass
Hospital, London. Harrison-Maclean Stomacn
Powder gives quick, harmless, effective re >
maintains the normal “balance” required
proper digestion, soothes dangerous stom
ulceration conditions, and helps the do >
too. All good Chemists sell HARRISU
MACLEAN Stomach Powder at a/6d• P“ l
beware of “Maclean” substitutes get gei
HARRISON-Maclean Stomach Powder in tne
White Package. If any difficulty, order (aaa
ing 4 d. postage) from Owl Pharmacy, u
Place, Sydney. Eat what you like: bid farew
to stomach upsets— lf
Stomach Powder never fails'
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Everywhere in the black-draped city on
Tuesday of last week churches echoed to
prayer, the solemn clap of bells sounded,
organs poured out the mighty music of
funereal marches. At twelve a silence
that was more arresting than even the
measured notes of sorrow held Sydney in
its grief.
The doors of St. Andrew’s were be-
sieged by mourners from an early hour.
At ten o’clock the northern and southern
doors were opened for official representa-
tives and those to whom cards had been
issued by the State Government. In a
steady stream they arrived: the represen-
tative of the Governor-General (he was
in Canberra), the Lieut.-Governor and his
lady, Dr. Earle Page, the Premier and Mrs.
Stevens. Here were the Ministers of the
Crown and the Chief Justice, Judges, the
University’s Deputy-Chancellor and Vice-
Chancellor. The Army, the Navy and
Consuls of many lands helped fill the
pews in the hoary old church that stands
a little remote from the roar of George-
stree,t. In a few minutes after the western
door was thrown open to the general
public there wasn’t an empty seat or
a spare inch of standing room. The
Goss anthem, “We Believe That Jesus
Died and Rose Again,” was a particu-
larly moving moment in a service of
which the lessons were read by the
Moderator-General of the Presbyterian
Church, Dr. Reid, and the address was
delivered in the clear tones of Archbishop
Mowll.
Never has such a vast crowd found
foothold in St. Mary’s Cathedral as at
the memorial service for King George V.
The basilica seats about 5000, and it
seemed that almost another 5000 squeezed
in. Even then there was an overflow —a
tidal wave of humanity that swept down
the steps and across into Hyde Park,
where amplifiers carried every word of
the service to them. The sanctuary held
300 black-robed priests—Archbishop
Kelly supplying the relief of purple—
who chanted in solemn tones the Litany
of the Saints. Even the rustling of wav-
ing handkerchiefs (the day was oppres-
sive) was hushed as that surf of suppli-
cation beat insistent on the heavenly
shores. Archbishop Kelly’s voice, thin as
the tinkle of old silver, whispered through
the sanctuary and, magnified a hundred-
fold, reached the ears and hearts of those
of his flock who were unable to be
present, standing gravely beside the
family radio. Monsignor King, who had
met George V. when he was serving as
senior R.C. chaplain to the A.1.F., spoke
in clarion tones his eulogy of one who
had been a model King, husband and
father.
But it was to the open-air service in
the Domain that the heart of the city
responded with its warmest beat. There,
looked down on by Robbie Burns, while
further back our own Henry Lawson
paused with dog at heel, a surging chorus
of prayer and hymn rose upon the
gathering night. “O God, Our Help in
Ages Past,” sang 35,000 mourners in a
hushed reverence that toned in with the
shadowy dusk. The Last Post was
sounded ; and then that gentlest of all
hymns, “Abide with Me,” murmured
and rustled into a darkness that was,
indeed, deepening.
A Randwick roofed in grey clouds
and a wind that flung fistfuls of icy
slivers into the teeth and down the spines
of stand-mounters or -descenders greeted
the Anniversary meeting last Wednesday.
It was a thinly-populated Randwick,
and black and white (mourning for King
George) was worn by every second
woman. Colored frocks and hats looked
quite out of the picture, and a girl or two
in red gloves caused the eye to blink.
But there was no recurrence of the vision
that appeared at a recent meeting in
slacks and crochet sandals.
One of the nicest at Randwick was Enid
Hull, whose black suit was decked with a
white toby frill. Mrs. O’Brien, who on
her arrival in Sydney was a guest at Gov-
ernment House and then went off to the
Hugo Brasseys at Dunk Island (she is
about to rush north again), was smart in
a frock of thin black woollens and a
high peaked hat which flew a feather
full-mast. Philippa Stephen added her
black suit. Mrs. M. Mackay’s white
tarn hat was worn above black and
white, and was quite a bright spot
among the millinery, which often had a
refurbished look. Frangipanni added the
touch of white to Mrs. W. E. Roberts’s
sable suit. Mrs. John Collins, down from
Beaudesert, was pretty and fair in pink,
with silver-fox furs and a small black
hat.
Earl Beauchamp’s address on King
George was the most interesting per-
sonal document that Sydney has heard.
The Earl as a very young man was
attached to the household of King
Edward VII., so his knowledge of
royalties is no second- or third-hand
affair. The address presented George V.
as he was —a sailor King, joyous, manly
and kindly. Lord Beauchamp is still
marvelling, by the way, over the beauties
of the woodwork in his new house on
Bellevue Hill. Parquet floors are every-
where ; even the kitchen floor is of Aus-
tralian hardwood.
There’s always another Windeyer to
enter the professional life of the State.
This is Dr. Ella Windeyer, just through
her medical course, and doing a job at
Prince Alfred’s. She’s a daughter of
Dr. J. C. Windeyer, of Wahroonga.
Montgomery-Dunn portrait.
When George V. came to the throne
Earl Beauchamp was head of King
Edward’s household. At the coronation
of his late Majesty he was bidden to
carry the Sword of State, and again at
the investiture of the Prince of Wales,
now Edward VIII., at Carnarvon Castle.
On that occasion Court officials had
forgotten to bring the sword from
the Tower of London, where it rests
among the Crown jewels. With great
presence of mind the earl borrowed
the Sword of Justice which belonged to
the city of Chester, the Mayor gladly
giving his consent. And apparently no-
body but the earl, the Mayor and
the forgetful officials knew the difference.
Lorna Byrne, organiser of the woman’s
section of the Agricultural Bureau, goes
off to other lands with a Carnegie Cor-
poration visitor’s grant tucked under her
arm. Great Britain, Canada, the United
States will be studied by her observant
eye, and particularly any ideas for the
advancement of home and community
activities among women on the land will
be seized upon. Lorna is a product of
West Maitland Girls’ High School and
Sydney Uni. She was one of the first
women to enter its Faculty of Agri-
culture.
When Mrs. Bertie Kelly embarks on
an adventure, such as organising a ball
or a fair, she sets a course direct for El
Dorado. No Spanish buccaneer had the
mountain of gold more firmly fixed in
his mind’s eye. Just now Mrs. Kelly is
busy with the Leap Year Fair that is to
help the building fund of St. Vincent’s,
a hospital over 80 years old in work, and
still growing with every birthday. The
fair will be an international one, the
helpers at each stall dressed in French,
Belgian, Swiss, German and other sorts
of national attire. On their stalls will
be goods typical of the countries repre-
sented. Mrs. Kelly will preside from
Feb. 19 to 22 as the Burgomeister’s wife,
in ruby velvet of mediaeval cut, its wide
sleeves of white batiste. A Dorothy
Welding camera caught this glimpse.
With Saturday’s sunshine Randwick
got more back to its old form as a well-
dressed institution that has stood the test
of time. Hugh Denison’s lady was one
of the handsome in black-and-white, but
black was not almost the unvarying wear,
as it had been at' the Wednesday meet-
ing. Many women expressed their half-
mourning in white frocks with black belt
and handbag ; some of them wore the
pinks and blues, the flowered frocks that
seem to tone in best with Australian
atmosphere.
Margaret Burns, in navy and white ;
Rachel Joy Morton (soon off on her
travels), black-clad ; the John McKelvey
lady, white spots on her black frock ;
Mrs. Dick Allen, in navy and white, were
among the crisp and the attractive.
After an illness that began some weeks
before Christmas, Mrs. John Spencer
Brunton died during the week-end at
her home, Gladswood, Double Bay.
With her passing .Sydney’s theatre loses
one of its best-known first-nighters. The
races, too, were a constant delight to her,
and at Randwick meetings her tall, well-
dressed figure was always looked for.
She was a splendid hostess, and her
friendships are spread throughout Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Eric Lawson and Mrs. John
Moreing are stepdaughters ; her sons are
John and Tom Brunton. The funeral
service at St. John’s, in Darlinghurst, was
crowded.
Another link with war-time Sydney
has been severed by the death of Mrs.
R. R. S. MacKinnon. The Red Cross
movement claimed her from its very
beginning, and to the end she was active
in its interests. The founding of
the Junior Red Cross will stand as
the great achievement of her life.
A woman of great vision, Mrs. Mac-
Kinnon saw in the babes of the post-
war years the standard-bearers of the
cross of pity and healing in the years to
come. It has proved one of the great
youth movements of the world, and has
spread throughout Europe.
From the outbreak of the Great War
Mrs. MacKinnon was on the Council of
the Australian Red Cross and on the
executive of the N.S.W. division. She
was to hold both offices for the rest of
her life. In addition, there was not a
R. committee or enterprise which did
not seek her counsel and know her work.
During the 1919 influenza epidemic she
was in charge of a special nursing ser-
vice in the city. In 1925 she was sent
as substitute delegate for the Common-
wealth to the sixth Assembly of the
League of Nations. She was a Fellow
of the Senate of the University of Syd-
ney and a member of hospital commis-
sions. She wrote, she painted and she
was one of our best women speakers. She
was a pupil of the old Sydney Girls’
High, and was the widow of Dr. R. R.
S. MacKinnon.
In this year’s march of time woman
will rustle. Even though on top you are
woolly, underneath you can wear an
organdie or taffeta slip ; and even if your
name isn’t Helen you’ll know you are
in some degree the choice of Paris. Beads
and belts are no longer something to be
snatched up from a bargain counter and
made “do.” Their position is assured and
certain. Belts are broad, patent leather
is much favored, and they are generally
in contrast to the color of the frock. All-
over pleats are once more with us bv
day as well as night, and deep cowls give
a monastic cut to afternoon frocks. To
balance such meekness there’s a sort of
military swagger about shoulders and
backs of coats and gold braidings.
Time was when an evening frock was
something, becoming as to color and cut,
to wear for dinner. If there was dancing
to follow the dress might be a bit more
frivolous. Now not only is it something
in satin or lace or tulle (and tulle is quite
the thing again, and black tulle sewn here
and there with tiny pearls can be recom-
mended), but it represents a mood:
drama, comedy, tragedy. Are you a
wronged wife who has been given a re-
frigerator for a Christmas present instead
of the emerald ring you wanted? Your
mood is Medea-like ; Greek drapings for
you. Modesty without Victorian prudery
can be expressed in the period taffetas—
full, flowing and backless. The Chinese
art exhibition in London has brought a
suggestion of old Pekin into evening coats
and in colors.
Battalions of V.As., hundreds of Junior
Red Crossers dressed the length and
breadth of St. Phillip’s on Church Hill
in snowy white for the passing of their
leader, Mrs. R. R. S. MacKinnon. The
J.R.C. arrived at the church looking very
forlorn, mostly carrying snowy wreath or
crimson cross. One of such, made of
velvet-like roses, shed its fragrance inside
the sanctuary, pressing home the cause
to which the gifted dead had devoted her
life. The chancel steps were heaped with
flowery tributes, almost all of them
blazoned with the Red Cross.
Miss Rosa Piper, Miss Kate Eagan and
Miss Nancy Consett Stephen looked very
sad. They, too, have been soldier
workers since the first warnote sounded.
Now they have lost a friend whose
interests were their own. The matron
of every woman’s hospital paid her last
respects in person, and was accom-
panied by some of her staff. M en
were thick in the crowded congregation.
Every branch of the R.C. was repre-
sented, every woman’s organisation.


BRANDAIER3
" SVC
558
t*'*
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample bos
C. BRANDAUER & CO., Lid, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
PENS
NkY
Sam
Os
m
m
WILCOX; SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling JList Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Educational
SUCCESS
Success must come to those who study
the DACOMB method of shorthand,
typing, book-keeping and accountancy.
In these days, speed, combined with accu-
racy, is absolutely essential for those who
wish to fit themselves for well-paid posi-
tions, and students are advised to ring
Cent. 3825 without delay, or apply direct
to the College for particulars of this
highly-efficient course.
The DACOMB College,
Personal and Correspondence Courses,
Presgrave Building,
Cnr. Honey Place & Lit. Collins St., Melb.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund •. • • • • .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.G.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
.banking business transacted.
Melbourne
Chatter
Two minutes’ silence was a more im-
pressive method of showing honor and
respect for the King’s funeral than any
holiday would have been. The only
sound in the streets during that short
memorial period were twittering of birds
in the eaves and the fall of leaves
blowing down the sidewalk. In all the
dense crowd round the cenotaph on the
steps of Parliament House, the only thing
that moved was a small black dog—a for-
lorn, pathetic little animal with no pedi-
gree and probably no home, which ran
among the feet of the guard on duty,
stopping occasionally to gaze up into the
faces of officers and men.
After a consultation with Colonel Pott
the committee of the Sorrento Golf Club
decided that in deference to Court
mourning the A.N.A. week-end golf
competitions must be postponed,
although over 1000 entries had been re-
ceived. Friendly games were played
instead, and the clubhouse was filled with
all the usual habitues, for Portsea and
Sorrento are enjoying halcyon days. H.
C. Cornforth, wearing his “admiral’s
coat” with brass buttons and puffing at
satisfying cigars, Norman Baillieu and
Dr. Davenport were among the brigade
of golfing men who cherish a deep affec-
tion for queer little tweed hats.
With Dr. Bunny Cato was Max
Stewart, who refers to himself as the
“worst-dressed golfer in Portsea,” but a
Royal Melbourne blazer and grey slacks
don’t make him that. Knight Harold
Luxton was noticed playing golf, and
Harold Holt, M.H.R., went riding.
Guyon Pleasance managed to tear him-
self away from the stock market for a
few days and accompany his attractive
wife to the seaside. Jack Griffin was
there ; also Harry White and his sun-
tanned daughter Marie. Joined up with
a party from Red Hill were Mr. and
Mrs. Clive Ross-Fenner, Joan Hill, Max
Glover and Geof Boyes.
The building trade, which, according to
those concerned in it, is always the first
to feel a depression and the last to
recover from it, has been given a remark-
able fillip during the last few months.
St. Kilda and Elwood swarm with new
flats, Brighton has caught the habit, even
in Prahran modern “unit homes” are
now available, and in back streets of the
oldest portion of South Yarra new apart-
ment buildings have suddenly risen above
the treetops and chimneys of some of
the most ancient houses in Melbourne.
In Queen’s-road cobbled paths and the
influence of the Spanish patio as an en-
trance have crept between the severe
stone houses of the Victorian era.
Shops, factories, business houses and
even churches also show improved statis-
tics, and six suburban picture palaces
will be opened during the next few
months. In the city alterations are going
on apace, and new buildings are grow-
ing on the sites of old. There seems to
be no street where builders’ posts and
wooden platforms have not leapt across
the footpath seemingly overnight.
Very different from the Shrine lawns
is the grass in the Botanic Gardens.
Whereas the area round the Shrine looks
starved and unhealthy, the grass in the
Gardens is as green as if there had been
no summer. Water-lilies, pink and white,
are blooming on the lakes, and the sacred
lily of Buddha grows thickly in one par-
ticular pond. This lily, whose natural
haunts are China, Japan and Egypt, is a
very large pink cup which flowers on a
tall, thick stalk high above the water. Its
leaves are each roomy enough to serve
as cradle for a water-baby.
Looking across the oak lawn, a tree
which appears to be a puff of grey
smoke is labelled golden variegated box
elder; not far away, and a complete
contrast, is a native of the Levant, an
Oriental strawberry-tree, its bark like
smooth red satin. The domestic bliss of
the birds and waterfowl goes on undis-
turbed. The youngest members of the
Gardens colony are four baby teal, small
fluffy balls, brown, with pink faces.
Mother and father teal are devoted
parents ; they swim up to the bridge to
grab breadcrumbs thrown by visitors,
which they carry over to the hungry chil-
dren, who have not yet got used to fend-
ing for themselves among a multitude of
swans, big and little ducks, seagulls and
other teal, with, beneath the water, a
churning army of gold and brown carp.
Their parents and intimate friends
know the difference between the Jona
twins, Merrie and Gwynneth, but to
everybody else the pair are as alike as
two buds on one bush. But Geoffrey,
son of Sir Charles and Lady Seligman,
of Kensington Palace Gardens, London,
is quite sure which is Merrie —their en-
gagement was announced last' week. Dr.
and Mrs. Jona with their eldest daugh-
ter Clare and the twins have been abroad
for nearly a year. It is expected that
Merrie’s marriage will take place in June
or July.
Beatrice Phillips, whose profile is
glimpsed through a Hollywood lens, is
a violinist and a composer, and is organ-
iser of the Salon Trio—herself and her
fiddle, May Daley at the piano, Miss
L. Young at the harp. Except for broad-
casting, which television has not yet
made a dressing-up business, the Salon
Trio keeps all its professional engage-
ments in old-world costume. Recently
its members have performed a good deal
at sessions of community singing. They
quite enjoy this, for they have a sense
of humor, and the audience is so
amiable, enthusiastic and appreciative.
The people range from very young
babies (whose prams block the foyers
and whose voices are sometimes raised
in protest) to octogenarians who get
their fun listening and beating time with
their feet.
Miss Phillips is “right-hand man” to
Dr. Ruby Davy, who this week is leaving
Adelaide to settle in Melbourne for
good. Dr. Davy, whose life is entirely
bound up in music, is a pianist, a com-
poser and a lecturer on musical subjects.
She is something of a musical philan-
thropist. In December she gave two
concerts to packed audiences in the
Assembly Hall. There was no charge
for admission or booking, and a full
professional orchestra and the Orpheum
Choristers figured largely on the
programme.
There’s nothing like tropic moonlight
for making Cupid get busy. Kathleen
Macpherson and H. F. Homer, who
travelled from England in the Otranto,
announced their engagement at a ship-
board cocktail party the night before the
steamer berthed at Station Pier. The
ring, a diamond sparkler, was on the
youthful Kathleen’s finger when she dis-
embarked at Melbourne. Mr. Homer is
an Englishman on a world tour. Miss
Macpherson, who was returning from
school in Paris, was accompanied by her
mother, Mrs. L. M. Macpherson, and her
sister Margaret—the group make such a
youthful and smartly-dressed trio that
at first sight three sisters would be
guessed at rather than mother and
daughters.
In 1935 more Christmas cards than
ever were bought and posted; now that
they have been (or should have been)
acknowledged with thanks there is a re-
sorting and a scrapping of the also-rans.
Among those which will be kept prob-
ably for years are etchings sent from
Palestine by Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Salmon.
(Mrs. Salmon was known to Melbourne
as beautiful Dorothy Hoysted.) Mr.
Salmon etches the cards himself. This
year his choice was a sun-baked building
in a quiet street of Jaffa ; last year it was
the village of Inab, its dwellings clustered
like limpets upon a rocky hillside.
Glimpsed by a Broothorn camera is a
very enthusiastic supporter of the Guide
movement, Mrs. Frank Faulkner. When
Lady Gowrie, who is Federal president
of Guiders, comes to Melbourne there
will be a special Guide welcome, with
Mrs. Faulkner as one of the organisers.
Mr. and Mrs. Faulkner have a daugh-
ter, Pamela, who has done a spot of
guiding, and will probably do more when
she completes her schooldays at Clyde.
Remarkable have been the fortitude
and determination of Miss Tilly Aston,
just awarded a Commonwealth literary
pension at the age of 61. Blind from child-
hood, she has been writing and, what
is more, publishing stories, verse, serials
and articles for the last 16 years, since
an accident compelled her to give up
her work as teacher at the Blind Insti-
tute (Vic,), a position she had held for 15
years. What will come as a surprise to
less handicapped writers is that not one
of her publications has failed to show a
profit. She writes her copy first in Braille
and then types it with unfailing accuracy.
In addition to her literary work, Miss
Aston turns out needlework and knitting,
weaves carpets, manufactures toys from
her own designs and takes a hand in
activities in the interests of the blind,
besides keeping up a correspondence with
Esperantists in various foreign lands.
She is a bright, cheerful woman, appar-
ently far happier than most people of
her age in full possession of their
faculties.
Miss A. Parling has returned to Mel-
bourne after eight months’ holiday, most
of which she spent in Germany. Except
for the treatment of the Jews Miss Par-
ling had no criticism of the Hitler regime
to offer. The women with whom she
came in contact seemed moderately con-
tent at being pushed back from public
life into the home. Miss L. Hooper
also returned home in the Aller after a
Continental trip.
Roy Rogers, who arrived in Melbourne
to play at the Tivoli, warns all thugs
and gunmen that his jiu-jitsu is a pro-
tection against any of their pranks. Mr.
Rogers has offered to teach jiu-jitsu free
of charge to members of any club who
get in touch with him.
Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Lempriere, who
are on their way from England, will go
straight through to Sydney to visit their
daughter Margot, now Mrs. Archie
Turner. In England they were intro-
duced to their first grandchild, Anthony
John Segrave: Joan Lempriere that was
is Anthony John’s proud mother. Joan’s
husband is a brother of the late Sir
Henry Segrave.
When Charles Holmes, of the
A.N.T.A., planned a trip to England he
didn’t walk into a steamship office as
everybody else does—his plan of route
is per air, bus and train. He left Mel-
bourne a few days ago, and this week
hopes to catch the mail ’plane in Bris-
bane. He will fly all the way to Bagdad,
where he and his luggage will be trans-
ferred to a very large bus which runs
to Haifa. This bus is operated by two
Australians, and the journey takes a few
days. The next stage is by train from
Haifa to Gaza, a town of green trees
and glaring white limestone. The whole
journey to England will probably take
about a month.
Not only the younger social set but
the Guide movement and many welfare
and charitable societies will miss the
Hon. Sara Vanneck when she leaves
Melbourne as a bride. Miss Vanneck,
who is the elder daughter of the Gover-
nor and Lady Huntingfield, was in Eng-
land most of last year, and arrived home
just too late for the Cup festivities. Her
fiance, David Peel, was at Eton and New
College, Oxford, and was in business
in London. He is now in Australia
in the capacity of advance agent and
assistant director for the British Empire
public school boys’ tour. Owing to
Court mourning the wedding will be very
quiet.
An attractive brunette from Maffra,
Margaret Prytz, is home again after five
months’ inter-State wanderings. Mar-
garet has visited several members of the
Wentworth family ; she stayed with some
of them up at Coolah, on the border of
N.S.W. and Queensland, and the George
Wentworths entertained her in Sydney.
Her twenty-first birthday was celebrated
a couple of weeks ago with friends at
Urana.
Nine young women who a few years
ago were contemporaries at Janet Clarke
Hall arranged to celebrate with a dinner
the last opportunity they would have of
being together. But unforeseen circum-
stances arose, and there were only seven
after all. Beryl Howell, who is an M.A.,
was still at Lome, and Marjorie Morrow,
the musical one of the bunch and a Mus.
Bac., couldn’t get over from Tasmania.
The others, who spent three hours over
their meal at Henry’s, were Hilary Hay,
who is a masseuse and just back from
Brisbane ; Marjorie Goodisson, a gradu-
ate in social science; Dorothy White-
head, an M.A., who is doing secretarial
work; Marjorie Strangward, an M.A.
and a teacher, who is leaving soon for
her marriage with Leigh Vial in New
Guinea ; Cynthia Wood, off for a holi-
day in Colombo ; Betty Wilmot, the rail-
ways dietitian ; and Jean Robertson, a
clever, vivacious lass whom no one would
suspect of being a M.Ag.Sc. She has
been doing research in Melbourne, and
is leaving shortly to carry on the good
work in Germany. When the seven
arrived at their chosen restaurant they
were surprised to find Ray Triado, a con-
temporary of their student days, walking
the floor as maitre d’hotel. Ray, who is
a lawyer and was something of a cham-
pion runner, looks very elegant in his
new office.
Mr. and Mrs. Buller Allen are on their
way home in the Orion.


LONDON’S LEADING
HOTELS
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger Lifts.
Garages, Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Running Water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Vegetarians
catered for if desired. BRIDGE, BIL-
LIARDS, TABLE TENNIS and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single, from 4 guineas.
Double, from 7 guineas.
Tele: Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its new Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 34 guineas Single,
64 guineas Double.
Tele: Padd. 6061.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 5022.
Accommodation for 60 guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8431.
Accommodation for 00 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as Bed-sitting Rooms. Owing
to their popularity you are advised to
secure accommodation —if possible—in
advance. Terms: Single, from 3 guineas.
Double, from 5 guineas.
The above hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin’’ takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Missing Beneficiary.
WILLIAM WALTER BARNARD, formerly
of Hewlett Street, Waverley, Bus-driver, and
formerly employed at Hughes’s Garage, Sydney,
46 years of age, sft. 9in. or lOin. in height,
medium build, fair complexion, fair hair turn-
ing grey, hazel eyes, clean-shaved, natural
teeth, son of Mrs. Jane E. M. Barnard,
deceased, and husband of Effie Isabel Barnard,
last heard of in October, 1925, and who is
entitled to £llBO, approximately, in the intes-
tate estate of his late mother, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, kindly communicate with
MESSRS. DONNELLY & O’BRIEN, Solici-
tors, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Personal.
SHORT-STORIES WANTED; Romantic plots
with Australian atmosphere but no slang
figures of speech; for publication in English,
American and Indian periodicals. Lengths,
1-5 thous. Send stamp with MSS. (NOT
stamped envelope).—S. CHRISTOPHER
ROBINSON, Film, Dramatic and Literary
Agents, 37 Mortimer Market, London, W.C.I,
England.
, QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4tli Floor, 66 Pitt St,
’Phone: BWI2IB.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
<1
Eg
I
I
0
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
FREE PATTERN
DAINTY TAIEORED
SEIP
AU S T R-A LIAN
WOMAN’S
MIRROR
FEBRUARY 11, 1936
ON SALE FRIDAY
LEAP YEAR
AND
VALENTINE
NUMBER
NEW PATTERN SERVICE
Any One of Fifteen Patterns
FREE, including Slip as Illustrated
CASH £250 PRIZES
WHO HAS AUSTRALIA’S
CHAMPION BABY?
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Accommodation at Bunbury was taxed
to overflowing for the tennis week-end.
Visitors from the city and south-west
towns rolled up in hundreds as much to
join in attendant revels as to wield a
racquet. Sandridge Park Golf Club’s
dance was a magnet. Phil and Gwen
Brazier were there, and Mary Burt (a
black cape swung over her blush-pink
crepes), Phil Hawter, Louie Shenton (with
draperies of unrelieved white), Diana
Davey (distinctive in crushed strawberry
matelasse), Joan Church (with green-and-
gold flowers on her white phantom crepe;,
Bonne Spencer (whose azalea-pink ninon
dripped with silver) and Joyce Burridge
(in stiff pink taffetas). The Seaview Golf
Club lit up its lounge for the tournament
dance, where the trophies were presented.
“Mickie” Amsberg unleashed her given
names of Shirley May when she became
Mrs. Thearle Adnams at St. Mary’s, West
Perth. Her bridal white satin smacked
of Greece in cut, with drapings falling
from narrow bands at the neckline, a
deep V back, inlet train and plaited satin
girdle. Stephanotis and tiger-lilies peeped
from under the cloudy veil of beautiful
handworked Brussels net. Betty Wickens
and Betty Jackman had flame char-
meuse satins cut on similar lines to the
bride’s with shorter trains, wider Vs and
bands of silver lame on their heads.
Summer styles are on view in the
Museum show cases, for curator Pitt
Morrison has rearranged his textiles to
show the evolution of dress. Loose hair-
string skirts are first in the field, closely
followed by a plaited coconut-fibre outfit
comprising shorts and modish cape. Gar-
ments from materials woven on looms
lead up to a stiff black taffeta worn by
Queen Victoria, complete with ruchings
of the equivalent to windswept chiffon,
drapings of lace and a small side pocket
to hold a miniature of the Prince Con-
sort. A startling 1929 model of gold lame
appliqued with roses winds up the series.
Kylie Phelps and Godfrey Carter
forded the matrimonial bridge at St.
Mary’s, South Perth, with Sylvia Miles
and Bernard Carter as official witnesses.
Kylie, who is the only daughter of Mrs.
E. W. Phelps, had a froth of spotted net
foaming over her surf-white satin and
a lengthy tulle veil which formed a train.
’Maid Sylvia’s reseda-green floral georg-
ettes were cut sari-wise to form a train.
Geraldton put on a round of valedic-
tory parties for Dr. and Mrs. H. C.
Callagher. Mrs. L. Moustaka adorned
her lounge with carnations and palms,
and set up bridge tables in their honor;
Mrs. W. McKenzie Grant, of New-
marracarra station, decorated her billiard-
room with roses for her bridge party,
and Mrs. A. C. Bogle took a number
of guests to the cinema and brought them
to her home for supper.
The national concert arranged by the
A.N.A. was an all-Australian affair as
to authors, composers and performers.
Works by Reginald Glass, Edith Harrhy,
Nelson Burton (who conducted the
Western Studio Orchestra), William
James and Percy Grainger were put for-
ward by Browning Mummery, Marshall
Sumner, Roy Glenister, Thelma Neill,
the Western Studio Orchestra and Male
Quartet and other musicians.
For her marriage to Charles Douglas
at St. Columba’s kirk, Cottesloe, Ruth
Bode made a happy choice of white
georgette and lace, soft tulle veil and
sheaf of white lilies and roses. Little
Betty Bode, in frilled ankle-length blue
voile, was trainbearer, and Gwen Bode
’maided in pastel-blue floral georgette
and large blue picture hat.
Signora Costantino, wife of the Italian
Consul in Perth, will leave in the Vimi-
nale for a tour abroad armed with
brushes and palette. An exhibition of
water-colors on her return is in her
mind’s eye.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Linen suits in which white pre-
dominated were worn at the Memorial
Drive by many of the spectators of the
championship tennis matches. Mrs. Ross
Sawers wore a large white linen hat to
match her suit, Miss K. Rymill was an-
other who favored the all-white outfit,
Zell Goodman gave a touch of relief to
her white linen frock with a black-and-
white-spotted blouse, and Mrs. Norman
Todd chose a red-and-white linen suit
and white hat.
The country tennis carnival dance at
the clubhouse was a great success, the
weather being ideal. Dancing was on
the floodlighted grass lawns in front of
the clubhouse. Dressing was varied, the
men being in lounge suits or flannels and
the girls in evening gowns. Ruby
Skinner’s scarlet-and-jade satin was pat-
terned in gold, Mary Stow Smith’s shell-
pink georgette was trimmed with fronds
of ostrich feather, and her white fur coat
was edged with ermine tails. Joan Walters
sported sapphire-blue satin crepe, with
silver outlining the frills on the shoulder.
The Women Graduates’ Association
held a party at the Lyceum Club in
honor of Mrs. T. G. B. Osborn, wife of
Sydney Uni.’s Professor of Botany.
Mrs. Alan M. Colvin, who has de-
parted to join her husband in Brisbane,
was the guest of honor at a farewell
party given by the convener of the
C.W.A., May Mcßain, at the Arcadia.
Mrs. Colvin was convener of the com-
mittee, then metropolitan secretary. Miss
Mcßain presented Mrs. Colvin with a
boomerang of pink phlox, with the letters
C. in red flowers, and Mrs. E. Wil-
liams, on behalf of the hospital visiting
committee, handed her a crystal vase.
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Melrose and family,
who annually leave their station to spend
the winter months in town, have bought
the Harry Brays’ home in Balliol-street.
The Melroses are at Victor Harbor, and
will move into their new home shortly.
Mrs. B. Mehrtens gave a party at her
home, Collinswood, as a farewell to Mrs.
A. Colvin and a welcome-home to Mrs.
A. Garfield and Beth and Jean Pritchard,
who recently returned from an 18
months’ trip overseas. The jollo also
celebrated the birthday of Mrs. C. H.
Ramsbottom. Orange tiger-lilies, roses,
delphiniums and gladioli decorated, and
Mrs. Mehrtens was gowned in white
floral chiffons flowered in blue and red.
Mrs. T. M. Boyer and Dorothy have
returned from Seacliff to their home at
Medindie. Miss Boyer has made a round
of visits. She was the guest of William
Sowden and his lady at Castlemaine,
Victor Harbor, and also stayed with Mrs.
D. H. Cudmore at Adare.
TASMANIA.
Five ladies combined forces and gave
a farewell party at the Eric Waughs’
house to Mrs. Cecil Muschamp, Sheila
Parsons and Dora Grant, all bound for
England. Hostesses were Mrs. Eric
Waugh, Mrs. Stuart Gibson, R. Gibson
(N.S.W.), Sybil Lyons and Una Witham.
Many of the guests came on from a
dinner-party at Hadley’s, given by Dr.
B. Hiller.
The Victoria League and the Lyceum
Club staged welcome-home tea-parties in
honor of Mrs. Goddard, who is a very
live member of both bodies.
Dorothy Sorell and John Hutchinson
were married at St. David’s in the early
morning—8.15. The bride’s dress of
thick magnolia satin was cut on long,
straight lines, with train and long sleeves,
and the full veil of tulle was surmounted
by an exquisite one of old Honiton, a
family heirloom. Sister Margery ’maided
in blue with a big picture hat, and her
full skirt had a corded hem with taffeta
ruchings. Edith Knight, the ’groom’s
small niece, also followed, in blue and
pink.
The James Murrays have taken Mrs.
Hungerford’s house in Holbrook-place
for the duration of her absence in Eng-
land. Mrs. Hungerford stayed for a
while before sailing with her daughter,
Mrs. Arndell Lewis, Abernaut House.
Two of Hobart’s old buildings have
gone the way of all bricks and mortar.
The “Haunted House,” on the way to
New Norfolk, once a vice-regal shooting-
box, has been pulled down, and the same
fate has overtaken the Woolpack Inn at
Gretna, which was-erected in 1829, and
was raided by bushrangers under Martin
Cash. It became in its old age an apple
store, and has now been demolished be-
cause its toppling walls were dangerous.
The engagement of Mary, only daugh-
ter of the late Frank Harbottle, to Lieut.-
Commander Emil Dechaineux, R.A.N.,
has been announced.
Among mainland folk visiting Hobart
recently have been Miss Elinor Wren
(Studley Park, Kew), Mrs. C. A. Kay
(Melb.), Mrs. W. F. Gardiner and her
two daughters (Brisbane), the Newland
lady (Adelaide), Dr. and Mrs. Scantle-
bury (Melb.), and Mrs. Robt. Gibson
(N.S.W.).


FRASER S CLAW HAMMER
The CLEVHAM Trade Mark, a clever, useful all-
round tool lately invented; all steel. Send for
• free leaflet showing some of the many things this
combination Clevham will do, for it is a clever
hammer. It should be found on every farm and in
every home and in every tradesman’s kit, and it soon
pays for itself. When ordering one CLEVHAM
, send postal note for 6/6; for four or more send
- 4/6 each (wholesale price) to: —
JOHN FRASER,
CLEVERLIE, GLENTHOMPSON, VICTORIA,
and they will be sent post free to any address in
Australia or New Zealand. When paying by cheque
.please add 6d. exchange.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who'will
quote you price for the original.
m§m
• The Hotel Mansions
Situated in the highest and most convenient posi-
tion in Sydney, this well-established Hotel gives
you every luxury and service.
We are noted for our splendid cuisine and
competent staff.
Reservations day and night ever at your service!
SYDNEY’S SOCIAL CENTRE
King’s Cross, Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines').
■
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7J hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
On Official Charity
"Oondooroo”: Apart from sheep and
lambing losses and the results of burdens
loaded on the shoulders of Queensland
graziers in other ways by the 1934-35
drought-artificial feeding, unforeseen
transport, extra interest charges—the net
loss in wool was about 135,000 bales,
worth, at £l7 per bale, £2,375,000, or
about £2 10s. per head of population.
The Government was kind—its Minis-
ters said so often. But there were large
flies in the lanoline. The Government
helped drought-driven farmers to carry
their fodder and sheep to agistment by a
35 p.c. reduction in freight-rates. Nor-
mally, if there had been no drought or if
proper provision for water supplies and
fodder conservation had been made the
railways would have got no extra
freight. As it was, the additional
business should have been economical
at the cut rate. Moreover, saving
sheep meant saving lambs and wool—
sources of taxation not only in the cur-
rent year, but in years to come.
Evidently, however, the Government
did not look at things like that. It
gave no hint that it was gaining by
the bargain, as it would have done
over a period of years even had it
carried drought-struck sheep free. It
merely used the misfortune of its
heaviest taxpayers outside the commer-
cial world to strengthen the transport
monopoly. Graziers who took advantage
of the rebate were compelled to sign a
solemn undertaking that in future they
would have all their goods carried by
rail. It was decreed that sheep taken to
agistment should be brought back to
original pastures —of course, by train —
and held there for at least a year. Only
if they were dying were they allowed to
be sold.
In substance, Queensland graziers lost
20 p.c. of their sheep, apart from cur-
rent income and stock increment. The
Government Railway Department had an
income of £6,996,000 in 1934-35 against
£6,103,000 the year before, and spent
only £596,000 more than the year before.
“Zedo”: An example of general official
casualness is the manner in which water
hyacinth is allowed to play hide and seek
with Queensland rivers. In any other
country that I know, one of the first
major works of development would have
been to clear the Brisbane and the
Bremer of bars and keep them free of
pests so as to make them navigable for
cheap transport of produce and tourists
into the heart of the Moreton. Even
in England canals and rivers much
smaller than these are traffic features.
But, though millions have and are being
spent in bridging Mother Brisbane, and
its lower reaches have been carefully
dredged to prevent floods and let in over-
seas steamers, the inland tributary is in
such a state that water hyacinth blocked
the channel to the bridge in the heart of
Ipswich. The town reaches were pro-
tected on the lower side for a time by a
boom which prevented the weed drifting
up on the tide, but a little while ago it
was removed. Now a dense mass of
greenery and mauve flowers covers the
stream, and it is impossible for many
motor-boats which used to ply from
Ipswich to Brisbane to get away from
the wharves.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: The apparent unreason-
ableness of the Federal ukase which re-
quires three years’ residence in Darwin
before unemployment relief can be
granted, but only six months to qualify
for what of a franchise exists there, is
probably a self-protective reaction from
Canberra, applied unthinkingly to our
Great North. Canberra is easily acces-
sible to all sorts of political refugees,
ghosts out of many a political past. Such
are better set on their way with a small
“loan” than allowed to haunt the halls
of statesmanship in the intervals of
shovel-leaning. But it certainly does not
seem fair to extend the system to
Darwin.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: News comes
of a most deplorable happening at
Darwin, which has created much annoy-
ance among spiritual survivors from
those great days when The Cruet, The
Bulk and The Deportations made its
name resound through the land. It
would seem that Moscow failed to
come across for the local Workers’ Inter-
national Relief, and what the blazes was
the use of being international if you got
no relief? A change of title was decided
upon, and after deep thought the
choice fell on Immigrants’ Home
Unemployed Mess, at once local and
descriptive. Did the sneering, upstart
boorjois show their appreciation of this
olive branch? Cumrads, they did not.
They only laughed at The People
struggling in the bonds woven round
“ How'd y' do with yr wheat this year ?”
“Aw, not too good. Th' grass'oppers got 'arf, the banks ’arf an th'
rest Was burnt in the flood”
them by the iron-heeled capitalistic
octopus, and alluded to them as “that I
HUM lot.”
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Bishop of Salisbury did
not forget his old Queensland diocese in
his will. Out of £49,000 left, Dr.
Donaldson apportioned £3OOO sterling
to St. John’s College, Queensland Uni-
versity, and £lOOO to the Brisbane
See Endowment Fund. The bishop
was the founder of the college in
1912, and had already given it £2500. The
See Endowment Fund trustees, however,
have greater cause for rejoicing, for they
provide the salary of the local arch-
bishop ; and, though he takes a stipend
which many a London suburban rector
would scorn, local piety is not so
material that it is always easy to sign the
cheque.
* * * *
W. H. Guy, the grand old man of
Buderim Mountain (Q.), has gone to his
last home at 95. He was a London man
who marched with Garibaldi to Rome ;
then came to Australia, lured by the gold-
fields, and presently helped to open up the
rich scrub lands under the Blackall
Range. Sixty-four years ago he settled
on Buderim, about 60 miles north of
Brisbane, by bullock track, the oldest
white inhabitant having been on the spot
for a week. Blacks frequented the
Maroochy a couple of miles below.
Thick volcanic scrubs covered the moun-
tain. Sugar was the first crop grown,
bit it was not a success. Coffee followed,
and went out with black labor. But'
eventually the mountain settled down to
bananas, pines and citrus and other
fruits, and is now one of the show places
of Australia.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: It' is difficult for any
Torres-Straiter to realise that big, hand-
some, smiling “Chum” Jardine is dead,
in the Aru Islands, of a clot of blood on
the brain, in the prime of life. Elder
son of the late Frank Jardine, he was
born at Somerset, Cape York, and lived
a Straits man practically all his life. For
18 years he was on the Arus, as agent
for several Thursday Island pearling
interests. Despite his vast bulk of
muscle he was a remarkable athlete, and
held the high-jump championship at the
Thursday Island sports for years. Few
could beat him over any distance from
10 to 440 yards, and his trick of mount-
ing a galloping horse on the run would
have gained him employment' as a stunt
artist in Hollywood. Good-natured, good-
looking, good-mannered, and with a
heart of gold, “Chum” Jardine’s memory
will live long with all who knew him.
“Nagheer”: How dreadfully does the
climate of our Awful North continue its
fell work! In a single issue of the
N.Q. “Register,” one reads of five more
victims. Captain Tutty, cut off at 83 at
Townsville, lived there for 35 years. Dr.
Drysdale, member of an Ayr pioneering
family, passed away there at 84. George
Wooldridge, long famed as the strongest
man in the N.T., died at Darwin after
50 years of the climate, aged 79. Fifty
years of life at Capella have also slain
Richard Norton at a little under 80.
And Cooktown deplores the loss of one
of her grand old men, Jeremiah Coutts,
also a climate-endurer of more than 50
years. He was only 87.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Barbara Sisley and the members of the
Brisbane Repertory Society who played
in “The Late Christopher Bean,” quite
the best show staged by the society last
year, went to Toowoomba for the week-
end to repeat the performance. Too-
woomba Repertory arranged a series of
entertainments for them.
When the Jubilee Bridge over the river
at Kangaroo Point was started, the old
Immigration Depot, once the first Mili-
tary Hospital in Brisbane, was taken over
for the staff. Commissioner Davidson, of
the Railways, allowed the Red Cross
workshop for disabled soldiers, which
had been going strong for over 18 years
in a small room on the grounds, with
Miss Macaulay Turner in charge, to find
another home in a disused railway build-
ing on Wickham-terrace.
There are 60 men on the books, most
of them with pensions so small that a
microscope is required to see them. They
are broken and sick, but their injuries,
generally speaking, are not classed as
war injuries. If they couldn’t find a
market for their work, the daily menu
would fade to nothing. The shop car-
ries its own burdens, with no help but
a yearly donation of £5 from Red Cross
funds. It seems to be an opening for
some enthusiastic charity worker.
Black-and-purple draperies fluttered in
the breeze on the day of the late King’s
funeral. All the buildings were in
mourning, but there were policemen
without black armbands.
The delicate shades that live in mother-
of-pearl shimmered in the church when
Marjorie Adelie Rouvray-Cox married
Cyril Robert Masterman at All Saints’.
The bride’s classical gown was of pearl
satin, and her embroidered veil was lent
by Mrs. L. Kendall, of Sydney. Jean
Rouvray-Cox and Dorothy Beaver, who
’maided, were frocked in ice-blue and
Patou-pink respectively. Breakfast was
eaten at the Belle Vue Hotel, after which
the young pair left for Sydney and Tas-
mania. In the Speck they will stay with
the bridegroom’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
C. R. Masterman, of Devonport.
On February 1 Jean Storie and Ronald
Grimes kept their altar date. The bride
lived in a whirl of parties for a week
or two prior to the great event, and Mrs.
G. R. Sayle was one of the finalists
among hostesses.
Viola Dent, another bride-to-be, was
given a coat-hanger party by Mrs. Chris
Jorss. February 6 is the date of Viola’s
wedding to Harold Russell. The most
impressive thing about Mrs. Jorss’s party
was the giant bon-bon into which all the
coat-hangers were packed. A magician
must have done the job.
Before Honour Hamlyn-Harris went to
Melbourne to live, about 40 members of
the Commissioners and Guiders’ Society
gave a tea for her at the C.D.A. rooms.
Mrs. Tregear presided. Honour was cap-
tain of the Sherwood company, and is a
Guider of long standing.
Bertha Clarke, the Brisbane girl who
takes parties of tourists under her wing
to Japan, is off again. Bertha once
held down a job in Tokio, so that
her parties have a chance to see more
than the usual tourist.
Lord Barnby, his cousin, Marjorie
Rushworth, and his secretary, Arthur
Ponsonby, are in Brisbane. Very cheer-
ful tourists, and quite enthusiastic about
Australia. So many titled visitors are
arriving from overseas that some enter-
prising bookseller should stock up on a
few copies of Debrett and Burke. Most
of those volumes still extant in Brisbane
homes stop short at the ’nineties, which
leads to regrettable errors.
The popular Max Way pair decked
their flat with gerberas and zinnias for
the big farewell party at which Mr. and
Mrs. Vincent Wheatley, on the eve of
setting off for Melbourne, and Captain
and Mrs. N. G. Roskruge, who go to
live in Sydney, were the guests of honor.
The Max Ways left for Maoriland by
the Otranto.
All-black costumes, black with a touch
of white, white with a touch of black
and violets for shoulder posies were worn
at Ascot races. Among the country
visitors were the Q. P. Hills, of Barcal-
dine; Mrs. C. G. Pollock, of Mt. Perry ;
Mrs. Reg Quilty, from Normanton ; and
Barbara Blackstock.
Ella O’Shea hostessed an afternoon-
tea party, wearing a white jacket suit.
And veteran Mrs. J. J. Buchanan, very
sprightly for all of her 86 years, added
a posy of violets to her black-and-white
floral chiffon frock.


iSIHI
□
You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
LARD MARK
I and MARK II
Radio Units.
f
Milliard
MU S TER
»Ol • A U S T k. A l I A ' S COUMIIV-HOMII
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Carter
GINIMOXor
A NEW
"B" ELIMINATOR
dsf
MODEL
1580 A
Input. Output. Inter-Tap.
6v. 2.2 amp. IBov. 30ma. 90 volts.
Price, £5/10/-
The smallest and most efficient
Eliminator made.
NOTE.—If Genemotor is required
for use with receiver employing
directly-heated valves, specify filter
Model XI Price, 30/-
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
Write for Comprehensive Bulletin,
No. 42.
AMPLION (A/sia) LTD. lesrams
Te, 86694 e 70 Clarence Street. 'Amplion.
(3 lines). Sydney. Syane:
RADIO NEWS
WHITHER RECORDING?
WILL IT BE USED LESS AS TIME GOES ON?
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Ever since the beginnings of broadcast-
ing in Australia, when the newness of the
art and the scarcity of financial backing
made the engagement of fiesh-and-
blood talent difficult and rare, recordings
have played a big part in programme
make-up. It' would be no exaggeration
to state that, without recorded music,
broadcasting as we know it to-day would
be well-nigh impossible.
Time and greater financial strength
have made no difference. Apart from
the national stations (and even their
average of recorded music is still quite
high) the general trend is towards in-
crease in the use of recordings, and it
is safe to say that' most of us are pleased
with the general run of entertainment so
provided.
Let us look into this matter of re-
corded items. First of all we have the
normal 10- and 12-inch discs produced by
the gramophone companies here and
abroad, which are primarily intended
for home use. These were for a very
long time the only source of supply
open to the broadcasters, and right well
did they play their part in building up
radio entertainment.
Soon, however, B-class stations began
to search for new programme items —
features. They found their requirements
in imported recordings not easily obtained
by the average householder. These made
excellent fare, and during the war
between the Australian record com-
panies and the broadcasters enabled the
latter to carry on when otherwise they
would have had nothing but old numbers
to play. Nowadays, with a peaceful
solution arrived at between the record
manufacturers and the stations, the im-
ported record does not play such an
important part, although it is still widely
used for variation in programme matter.
About this time, or perhaps a little
earlier, the transcription made its appear-
ance, and was hailed as an excellent
innovation. These large, slow-revolving
discs, carrying 15 minutes of programme
material, were looked upon as very
nearly the ideal method of presentation
for sponsors who demanded something
new, exclusive. Transcriptions have held
their public right from their incep-
tion. All are recorded at 33 1-3 r.p.m.,
and some have, in addition to the main
discs, small ten-inch “plug” or introduc-
tory discs carrying theme music or in-
troductory chords. These “plugs” are
sometimes recorded at slow speed and
sometimes at the standard speed of
78 r.p.m., and are used for beginning
and ending sessions. Notable examples
have been the “plugs” used with the
“King’s Men” programmes and the “Once
Upon a Time” series.
A more recent innovation has been
the introduction of 8.8. C. recordings,
which are standard 12in. discs recorded
at 78 r.p.m. and played in the usual
way. These have, of course, been pri-
marily available to A-class stations, but
are also circulating among the B-class
transmitters under special conditions of
sponsorship. About this time, too,
“Wide Range” hill-and-dale recording
came in for some attention in Sydney.
It has been used to good effect by 2GB.
These records cover a much wider fre-
quency range than normal discs and call
for special reproducing gear, in which
the stylus moves up and down instead
of sideways. The universal adoption of
such records depends, naturally, upon the
universal adoption of the special gear.
And now another method —film re-
cording. This has not had a great vogue
so far, and, like steel-tape methods, re-
quires special gear and entirely different
A striking example of English receiver
style. The grandfather clock and radio-
gram. combination. Television will no
doubt be included next.
technique. Neither the film nor the steel
wire or tape has provided the Australian
listening audience with a great' deal of
entertainment.
The question regarding the increased
or lessened use of recording hinges
upon the uses to which discs may
be put rather than upon the way in
which they are produced. Already there
are stations in Australia with their own
recording plants, and several excellent
programmes have been committed to
“platters.” This opens up another new
field of the art. Stations employing tal-
ented artists may record them while actu-
ally broadcasting and supply (either for
sponsoring purposes or for sustaining
programmes) other less fortunate broad-
casters with the records. Again, pro-
grammes calling for many effects can
be greatly assisted by the correct “noises
off.” Comprehensive though the avail-
able libraries are, there are always
effects that are wanted, but can neither
be easily faked nor had from the
record shelves. What better than to set
to work and record the required sounds,
when convenient, for reproduction later?
The use of the recording unit is not
confined to the cities. It' is a boon to
small towns, inasmuch as the presen-
tation of local plays with local players
may be difficult in the flesh. In such
communities the stage and histrionic art
do not provide a living. In the day-
time and during evenings it may often
be difficult to get hold of the artists
required. The opportunity of gather-
ing whole casts together is presented dur-
ing week-ends. The play or act could
then be recorded for later use.
News, too, can be better presented by
the help of recordings. In time to come
stations will send their own recording
vans out to points where important
events are to take place. For the
“bottling up” of sound is daily growing
in importance.
R.H.A.
Miles-per-watt Record ?
E. J. Lake, of experimental station
VK4EL, at present located at Ayr (N.Q.),
operates a low-powered portable trans-
mitter using a single Philips B406 valve
and 100 volts of B battery for plate
voltage. Recently he worked on the 20-
metre band with OA4X in Peru, South
America, whilst using only one watt in-
put to the little transmitter. Signals
were reported QSA3 R4 by the South
American, and Mr. Lake is anxious to
know if this communication constitutes
a record on a miles-per-watt basis. The
distance is approximately 9000 miles air
line.
Shorter Waves for Empire
Broadcasts.
The 8.8. C. intends to make experi-
mental Empire transmissions on wave-
lengths as short as 11.49 metres. At
present the lowest wave-length in use at
Daventry is that Of GSG, which works
on 16.86 metres. So great, however, has
been the success of amateurs in long-
distance transmissions on wave-lengths
between 10 and 12 metres that the 8.8. C.
anticipates remarkable results from the
shorter wave-length. When the forth-
coming meeting of the Technical Com-
mission of the International Broadcast-
ing Union was first mooted, it was
probably not realised that the experts
concerned might be called upon to allo-
cate channels on wave-lengths right down
to 10 metres; but England is by no
means the only country where broadcast-
ing authorities have seen the possi-
bilities of these very short waves, and
it is certain that others will put in claims
for exclusive channels. The International
Telecommunication Conference will be
held at Cairo in 1938 ; the whole ques-
tion of short-wave broadcasting will be
thoroughly discussed, and the conference
should be particularly interesting, for the
very short waves should then be at their
best, since 1938-39 should see the sun-
spot maximum period.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Four Japanese stations have lately
been engaging attention —JVN (28.14 m.),
JVM (27.93 m.), JVH (20.55 m.) and JVP
(39.95 m.). JVN and JVM are sometimes
spoken of as “sister” stations, but the
pairing appears to be JVN with JVP,
and JVM with JVH. JVN is the power-
ful station heard regularly every evening
from 7 till 11. Usually, but not invari-
ably, it gives news in English at 7.55.
The news is always interesting, and fre-
quently is not covered by the services
that supply Daventry, Paris or Berlin.
JVN, in conjunction with JVP, has
now inaugurated a series of early-
morning sessions, commencing at 7 with
the playing and singing of the singularly
beautiful Japanese national anthem.
This is a by no means perfunctory pro-
ceeding, but lasts for five minutes. First
the orchestra plays the anthem ; then it
is sung by women’s voices alone ; then
by men’s voices alone ; finally, by men’s
and women’s voices combined. At these
sessions, in which the listeners are com-
prehensively addressed as “Ladies and
gentlemen and everyone,” announce-
ments in English of the callsigns and fre-
quencies of the two stations are repeated
almost ad nauseam; during the pre-
liminary test on January 7 the announce-
ments continued for ten minutes at a
stretch, both at the beginning and at the
end of the transmission. It appears to
be quite useless to attempt to raise JVP ,
it is encompassed and obliterated by a
dense belt of Morse signals, to say
nothing of the blasting and battering of
midsummer static. JVN itself becomes
almost inaudible towards 8 a.m.
The co-operation of JVM and JVH has
been already noted (B. 15/1/’36). Their
occasional exchange of programmes with
DJB and DJQ probably accounts for the
mysterious appearance from time to time
of Japanese stations on the 31m. and
19m. bands. Apart from such broad-
casts, JVM is frequently heard ’phoning
Berlin or Paris in English.
Very close to JVH there is a Russian
newcomer (noted B. 15/1 /’36). It is
heard two or three times a week from
9 till 11 p.m. On January 12 it gave a
very fine broadcast of Tschaikowsky’s
“Eugen Onegin.” JVH does not appear
to announce in any language but Russian.
RNE now gives the following regular
transmission: On 25m., from 9 p.m. on
Sundays and Wednesdays; on 50m.,
from 7 a.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays,
Fridays and Saturdays. On January 12
it transmitted an address in English by
Molotov, president of the Council of
People’s Commissars, in which he spoke
of “the menace” of Fascist Germany,
as well as of Japan’s “playing with fire on
our far-eastern borders,” forecasting the
large increase in the U.S.S.R.’s defence
expenditure which has since been an-
nounced through the cables.
The station on 31.5 m., believed to be
CQN Macao, has now been definitely
identified as such by announcements in
English. It is heard every Monday and
Friday night from 10 till 11.30. It has,
I should say, the world’s worst micro-
phone, and only the most insensitive
enthusiast could endure for long its
asthmatic and toneless reverberations.
The short-wave listener has, and likes
to have, conundrums to solve. Here is
one. At 7 a.m. on January 16 a station
was heard on the lower 31m. band giv-
ing patriotic marches. First guess, 2RO.
Words spoken, however, were in Ger-
man ; after which, in response to a cry
of “der Fiihrer,” cheers rang out. Could
it' be DJA? Next came words spoken in
French ; after which, once again, a cry
of “der Fiihrer” and cheers. Then the
playing of “La Braban9onne.” A double-
spot of ORK? No, for that station had
gone off the air. Finally, the playing
of another national anthem and the an-
nouncement “Radio Coloniale, CTIAA.”
Lisbon, after all!
P.R.W.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have again been mostly
good, although static above 25 metres
has been much worse than usual this
summer. On the 11th there was an in-
teresting talk by the chief engineer of
the 8.8. C. in the No. 1 transmission.
Among other things he mentioned three
new stations, one each in the 25-, 19- and
16-metre bands. He stated also that
they are now using 25 aerials and con-
centrating the beam more for each direc-
tion.
Another interesting item was the
announcement from Radio Coloniale that
a very powerful new station is to be
erected in France, with 120 kw. As
Radio Coloniale is very strong now,
something quite exceptional in reception
in Australia may be expected later.
The new German station on 9765 kc.
with callsign not yet identified here has
been on regularly in the mornings, but
there have been long intervals with only
the typical interval note. Strength has
been quite good, and programmes are
different from DJN and the others. The
new station has also been heard at night
after 10.30, but could not be compared
with DJN. The 25-metre station improved
in the early evenings, as also did Radio
Coloniale.
GSG has been very erratic, being
mostly weaker than the preceding weeks.
PCJ in the Wednesday session was hard
to copy, and was not to be compared
with PHI in the 25-metre band as far as
my district was concerned.
2RO has continued excellent at night,
but telegraphic interference in the morn-
ings spoilt the 31-metre transmission.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. AH
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Vi
ms
\
Announcing—
vjy.s< ... v
• .....
The “Palec Compleat”
A truly universal radio tester and fault
tracer, and one which the Engineer and
Experimenter can rely on.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS AND
RANGES.
(1) Volts: D.C.. A.C., and Output, 10-
50-250-500-1000.
(2) .MilMam ps.: 1-10-50-250.
(3) Ohms: Prom 1 ohm to 10 megohms.
(4) Capacitance: Paper and mica Con-
densers from .001 to 10 infd., measured
and tested for leakages and open
circuits.
(5) Inductance: Chokes, Transformers,
etc., readings in two ranges from 1
to 10,000 Henries.
(6) Impedance: Measurements at 50
cycles, two ranges from 1 to 1 megohm.
(7) Electrolytics : Tests Electrolytics. both
8 and 25 mfd. types, at working
voltages, registering condition as
Good, Poor, or Faulty.
(8) Insulation Test: An invaluable feature
is the provision for testing circuits,
sockets, bushes, valve elements, etc.,
for leakage at 250 Volts D.C.
The instrument is a portable laboratory
type, and completely self-contained, the
power unit incorporated operating from
200-250 Volt A.C. supply. The keynote
of this Multi Tester is its accuracy, versa-
tility, and simplicity of operation, and,
what is more, it CAN NEVER GO OUT
OP DATE.
Trade Price, plus tax . £l3/10/-
Analyser Adaptor Unit for above (in-
cluding metal tubes), plus _ .
tax £2/19/6
Manufactured by
The Paton Electrical
Instrument Co.
90 Victoria Street, Ashfield, Sydney.
Telephone: UA1960.
Manufacturers of the “Palec” moving coil
Meter (as supplied to the N.S.W. Govt.
Railways); also the “Palec” Cathode Ray
Oscillograph Valve Tester, Oscillator, etc.
Write for particulars.
Obtainable from:
Sydney—Bloch and Gerber, Ltd.; John
Martin, Ltd.
Melbourne—A. EL Gibson (Electrical)
Co. Pty., Ltd.
Brisbane —Zenith Radio (Qld.) Pty., Ltd.
Both GSB and, later in the morning,
GSC were much improved, and were
quite fair up to 8 a.m. and often later.
The 49-metre band was explored
several mornings, but nothing of enter-
tainment value was heard above the
general noise level. The outstanding
station at night recently has been DJN
after 11 p.m. Signal strength has been
so great that it overrode static. RNE,
in the 25-metre band, has been hard to
copy in the 9 p.m. session on Wednesdays
and Sundays, and the 7 a.m. morning
session on 49 metres was not worth
listening for.
It is remarkable how Radio Coloniale
still gives fair reception after 2.30 p.m.,
and is the one overseas station success-
fully putting a good signal into Australia
in the day during midsummer conditions.
The Japanese station on the 27-metre
band has recently been good after 7
p.m., but was transmitting more typical
Japanese music than formerly.
NIGHTOWL.
Short-wave Notes.
If plans mature, Germany in 1936
may possess the most powerful short-
wave broadcasting system in the world,
it being the ultimate aim to transmit
programmes daily in five different
languages. Four new 50-kilowatt stations
are in course of erection at Zeesen, and
these are to be equipped with beam
aerials permitting directional transmis-
sion to both American continents, Asia,
Africa and Australia. At present broad-
casts are already made in German,
Dutch, English, Spanish and Portuguese,
but it is likely that other languages may
be added in the near future. The chan-
nels allocated to this German short-wave
broadcasting system are as shown:
Call. Metres. Kilocycles. Kilowatts.
DJE .. 16.89 17,760 5
DJR .. 19.56 15,340 50
DJQ .. 19.63* 15,280 50
DJB .. 19.74* 15,200 5
DJL .. 19.85 15,110 5
DJP .. 25.31* 11,855 50
DJO .. 25.43* 11,795 50
DJD .. 25.49* 11,770 5
DJA .. 31.38* 9,560 5
DJN .. 31.45* 9,540 50
DJM .. 49.35 6,079 50
DJC .. 49.83* 6,020 5
*Already in use.
Italy, also, during the past few months
has been concentrating efforts on the
development of short-wave broadcasts,
and for the benefit of nationals, as well
as other listeners abroad, has increased
considerably the’ news service and fea-
tures of general information in the pro-
grammes. These broadcasts are also
given in several European languages, in-
cluding French, English, German and
Spanish. Additional 20-kilowatt trans-
mitters are being added to the system,
and will be in operation during 1936.
The channels available are as follows:
Call. Metres. Kilocycles. Kilowatts.
.. 11.69 25,650 20
.. 13.95 21,510 20
.. 16.88 17,770 20
.. 19.62 15,290 20
.. 19.70 15,230 20
12R04 .. 25.40* 11,810 20
12RO .. 30.67* 9,780 20
12R03 .. 31.13* 9,635 20
.. 31.25* 9,600 20
12R02 .. 42.98 6,980 20
12RO .. 48.7 6,170 20
.. 49.3 6,085 20
12R01 .. 49.46 6,065 20
12RO .. 52.4 5,725 20
12RO .. 53.0 5,660 20
12RO .. 53.48 5,610 20
12RO .. 54.01 5,555 20
12RO .. 80.0 3,750 20
*Already in use.
How It Is Done in Russia.
The following list of broadcasting ses-
sions of Moscow, Leningrad and Odessa
stations illustrates amply that the lan-
guage question is no question at all for,
U.S.S.R. announcers. The difference
between this system and the 8.8. C. is
that the one wishes to reach listeners in
countries throughout the world, and the
other is only directly concerned with the
Empire, in which the great majority of
listeners are English-speaking. One con-
cludes, nevertheless, that' U.S.S.R. an-
nouncers must be extremely versatile
people: —-
MOSCOW.
'From the Comintern station on a wave-
length of 1724 metres, with a simultaneous
broadcast on 25 metres.)
English: Simultaneous broadcast on wave-
length of 25m., 9 to 10 p.m., G.M.T., Sun-
day. Monday, Wednesday and Friday. In
addition on Wednesday and Sunday, from
11 to 12 noon, G.M.T., on a wave-length
of 25m. only; Sunday from 3 to 4 p.m.,
G.M.T.
German: 8 to 9 p.m., G.M.T., Sunday, Mon-
day, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday;
10 to 11 p.m., G.M.T., Wednesday, Friday
and Sunday.
French: 9 to 10 p.m., G.M.T., Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday.
Czecho-Slovakian: 8 to 9 p.m., G.M.T.,
Wednesday and Friday.
Dutch: 10 to, 11 p.m., G.M.T., Tuesday.
Swedish: 10 to 11 p.m., G.M.T., Saturday on
25m.; from 1 to 1.45 p.m., G.M.T., Sunday.
Spanish: 10 to 10.30 p.m., G.M.T., Thursday;
from the R.Z.S. on a wave-length of 1107 m.,
10 to 11 p.m., G.M.T., Saturday and
Tuesday; from the V.Z.S.B. on 25m. from
12 to 1 noon, G.M.T., Sunday.
Portuguese: 10.30 to 11 p.m., G.M.T.,
Thursday.
Hungarian: 10 to 11 p.m., G.M.T., Monday.
LENINGRAD.
(On a wave-length of 1224 metres.)
German: 9.20 to 10 p.m., G.M.T., Monday,
Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.
Swedish: 9.20 to 10 p.m., G.M.T., Tuesday.
Finnish: 4.30 to 4.55 p.m., G.M.T., Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday.
Latvian: 4.30 to 4.55 p.m., G.M.T., Monday
and Friday.
Norwegian: 9.20 to 10 p.m., G.M.T., Saturday.
Esthonian: 4.30 to 4.55 p.m., G.M.T.,
Wednesday and Sunday.
Esperanto: 9.20 to 10.20 p.m., G.M.T., Thurs-
day and Sunday.
ODESSA.
(On a wave-length of 309.9 metres.)
Greek: 8 to 9 p.m., G.M.T., Wednesday,
Saturday and Sunday.
Ultra-shorts and Commercial
Activity.
The old, old story is repeated. The
amateur, given a range of frequencies
ostensibly of little or no commercial
value for experimental purposes, finds
out all about them, puts them to good
use, and makes a purse out of a sow’s
ear. It is only a short while since
anything in the nature of 10 metres
Forerunner of the dual or all-wave type of receiver in Australia. The Inter-
national Five, designed in 1931 by Don B. Knock. This was a T.R.F. receiver
with plug-in coils.
and below was scorned by “professional”
radio engineers, but in ’36 the story is
somewhat different.
The amateur spans the world on 10
metres, and has established remarkable
long-distance and point-to-point com-
munication on five metres. Two and a
half metres and below haven’t been
neglected either. The success of the
amateur, particularly with five metres,
naturally attracted all kinds of people
keen on using such wave-lengths for pur-
poses adequately served by the telephone.
It is not difficult to imagine what
would happen if all the ultra-short-wave
channels below 10 metres were thrown
open for ordinary communications. The
U.S. Federal Radio Commission, realis-
ing this, has banned these waves for
ordinary commercial use —and rightly.
The Australian P.M.G. Department also
is not giving this valuable territory away
to Tom, Dick or Harry, as countless
applicants have learned. If the authori-
ties permitted an influx of indiscriminate
commercial communication on ultra-
shorts, there wouldn’t be a spare kilo-
cycle left within a week or two.
It is obvious, with modern television
on the up-grade all over the world, that
a big slice, probably between six and
nine metres, has got to be reserved inter-
nationally for this increasingly important
work. There are cases, however, where
the granting of ultra-short-wave opera-
tion licenses is justified, such as the
ambulance work now undergoing tests
in Sydney. It must be remembered also
that television may eventually use still
higher frequencies than those at present
popular. This alone is sufficient reason
for reservation, other than for experi-
ments, of ultra-short-wave channels.
Amateur Chatter.
The passing of King George left a
feeling of widespread loss. Most Empire
amateur stations remained silent, and
most receivers were tuned to Daventry’s
19-metre transmission, where the Empire
programme consisted of rare announce-
ments and the tolling of Bow Bells.
CO6OM, in Tuninucu, Cuba, rarely
comes on the air at times favorable for
peak conditions in Australia on the 20-
metre band ; but when he does his tele-
phony is at an average of R 8 QSAS.
Around 10.30 p.m. Sydney time is break-
fast-time in Cuba, and consequently Mr.
Jones has little time to spare. On Sun-
day evening, January 19, CO6OM, during
a 15-minute conversation with the writer,
again excelled as the best DX amateur
telephony station yet heard in Australia.
The writer’s station also had a two-way
telephony contact with USAE in Khar-
kov, U.S.S.R. This station is the first
Russian to attempt telephony with Aus-
tralia to the writer’s knowledge, and re-
ception was very good, despite language
difficulties.
On the evening of January 25 the
W.I.A. Convention in Brisbane was
opened from 2CH Sydney by E. T. Fisk,
with 4BC Brisbane collaborating. Mr.
Fisk paid tribute to the recent good
work done by Australians in 10-metre
DX research. It is hoped that by the
next convention several VKs will be
able to talk about their DX records on
five metres. The A.R.R.L. is staging a
12 months’ international five-metre DX
contest, and anything may happen in
that time.
Many of the Sydney 40-metre ’phones
have migrated to 20 since the good DX
conditions have prevailed, and at times
it is difficult to find a clear spot at the
high-frequency end of the band. Many
W.A.Cs. on 20-metre ’phone must have
been secured by VKs recently. During
the afternoon of January 25, American
’phones suddenly appeared strongly, and
the writer had two four-way contacts in
a space of 15 minutes. WSDE relayed
WSDYM, the latter station working on
160 metres. VK2BQ has moved from
Bondi to Rose Bay (N.S.W.), and with
a centre-fed 133 ft. antenna is reported
overseas as being the strongest VK.
VK2NO.
Why A.C.-D.C. Receivers Are
Popular in Great Britain.
A writer in “Wireless World” (Eng-
land) effectively disposes of the idea that
the “grid system” of power distribution
over Great Britain has resulted in
standardisation in electric power supply
to homes.
There are still no fewer than 1,037,729 homes
served by D.C. supplies as against 5,035,977
which have A.C. Despite the progress made
by the grid system, the diversity of voltages
and periodicities in Great Britain is something
almost beyond belief. Looking down a list
showing the supplies of the larger towns, one
finds that D.C. ranges from 100 to 250 volts,
with figures such as 105, 110, 130, 200, 210,
220, 230 and 240 in various districts. The A.C.
supplies are even crazier. They run from 100
volts, 50 cycles, to 250 volts, 40 cycles, with
curiosities such as 110 volts, 25 cycles; 100
volts, 100 cycles; 100 volts, 40 cycles; 115 volts,
50 cycles; 200 volts, 83 cycles; 200 volts,
100 cycles; 220 volts, 25 cycles; 230 volts,
25 cycles; and 240 volts, 40 cycles in between.
Even in London the D.C. voltages vary from
100 to 240, and the A.C. supplies from 100,
104, 105 and 110 volts at 50 cycles to 200, 205,
220, 230 and 240 volts at 50 cycles.
The strangest cases are those of towns with
a wide selection of supplies. In Prescot, for
example, you may have 240 volts D.C. or
115 volts, 50 cycles A.C. or 230 volts, 50 cycles
A.C. Newcastle-on-Tyne offers you 230 volts
D.C., 100 volts, 40 cycles A.C., 240 volts,
40 cycles A.C., or 250 volts, 40 cycles A.C.
At Torquay the selection includes D.C. 100
volts, D.C. 240 volts, A.C. 200 volts, 50 cycles,
A.C. 240 volts, 50 cycles. There are even cases
where the odd-numbered houses on one side
of the street have A.C.. whilst the evens on
the other side are served by D.C.
One can see now why it is that the A.C.-
D.C. set is so popular among Britons.
P.M.G. radio licenses for the Com-
monwealth totalled 770,152 in December,
1935. Experimental licenses numbered
1387.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
(1) I have a 12-volt generator designed to
deliver 80 amps., and used for arc-welding.
Would it be possible to utilise this current for
running an arc-light ? (2) If not, what class
and power of electric bulb could be operated
from same? —3Bl.
(1) It should be just about possible, using
fine cartons; but 12 volts is on the low side
for arc-lighting. You can do no harm by
trying. (2) Gas-filled 12-volt motor-car head-
lamp bulbs could be used, and, as plenty of
amperage is at hand, a cluster of such lamps
would answer. Brighter lighting could be
obtained from the 12-volt “talkie” exciter lamps,
as used in projector sound-heads.
* * * *
When will the new A-class station at Towns-
ville be opened ? All listeners in the, Clon-
curry district are keen to know what kind of
reception we are likely to get during the hot
months. —3B2.
No information is available.


USEFUL DATA ON MORRIS 25.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 13 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 25ft.
Maximum speed, 72.87 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 21.5 m.p.g.
••SUVER
EDGE”
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RA YBESTQS- 3 [ LACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORTWORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation—for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small liigh-
pressure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
h. >m
zjm a\
7
\
: Vy
mm
60-
less Gauge
5/** extra
with gauge.
Take it easey with a
RENRirr
Q.UADP.U PL€
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
England.
The Steering Column.
MORRIS 25 PASSES TEST
WITH HONORS.
BRILLIANT PERFORMANCE BY NEW MODEL.
BY FRED BERRY.
O ENTIMENT cannot be the sole consideration in the purchase
of a new car. Anxious though Australian motorists may be
to keep trade under the fiteg, a price-performance comparison of
English products with American models has usually, except in
the baby class, been unfavorable to the former.
Now comes the 25-h.p. Morris to challenge comparisons.
History repeats itself. Morris started
the ball rolling a dozen years ago when,
to an English market full of high-rev-
ving fussy types, the firm introduced the
famous “bull-nosed” Cowley with its
comparatively large, flexible motor and
easy-change three-speed gearbox. The
latest Morris product, the 25, incor-
porates a favorable power-weight ratio,
with attendant excellent road perform-
ance, a new body design and a com-
fortable suspension system. Workman-
ship and materials are
of high quality, and
should the assembly
be as reasonably free
from trouble as the
specifications indicate
the new model should
soon become one of the
most popular cars in
Australia.
The 6-cyl. L-head
engine bore 82mm.,
stroke of 110 mm.,
piston displacement 3485 c.c.—has an
R.A.C. rating of 25.01 h.p. Cylinder
heads are detachable. The cylinder block
is cast integral with the upper half of
the crankcase, which extends well below
the crankshaft centre and is liberally
reinforced with internal webs to pre-
vent crankshaft whip.
The crankshaft runs on four steel-
backed white-metal bearings, and is
balanced statically and dynamically, a
Component parts of the Morris 25 cork-faced clutch
assembly, showing flywheel and ring gear, clutch
plate, pressure plate, clutch springs and cover plate.
vibration damper being fitted to the
forward end. The camshaft is also pro-
vided with four bearings, and is driven
by a duplex silent roller chain from the
crankshaft. Side-by-side valves are used,
adjustable tappets being carried in re-
movable guides.
Pistons are aluminium alloy, each with
four rings—three compression rings
Smart in appearance, comfortable and powerful—the new Morris 25, tested over
the Bulletin course.
above the gudgeon pin and one oil
scraper located low down on the piston
skirt. Steel connecting rods are equipped
with white-metal big-end bearings of the
full ring type, and are individually bal-
anced to a high degree of accuracy.
Fuel is held in a 13gal. tank at the
rear, and is drawn to the motor by an
S.U. electrically - operated
petrol pump incorporating
a large-area gauze filter.
Carburettor is S.U. auto-
matic-piston down-draught
type with adjustable jet.
Mixture control is on the
instrument board. An
efficient air-cleaner, silencer
and flame-arrestor is
attached to the intake port
of the carburettor, a heavy
stay bolted to the cylinder-
head casting preventing
whip or vibration.
Electrical system is 12
volt, the large heavy-duty
generator being driven by
belt from a crankshaft
pulley. Three charging
rates are provided, and the
unit is fitted with vanes on
the pulley end for cooling
purposes.
Starter motor is of sliding-pinion type,
located on the side of the gearbox. The
distributor for the ignition system is
driven by skew gears from the upper
end of the oil-pump spindle and has
fully automatic advance and retard, to-
gether with manual control micrometer
adjustment.
All electrical units and accessories are
protected from damage by means of a
compact cut-out armature and pair of
fuses housed in a neat moulded box
located on the engine side of the dash.
Dual electrically-operated windscreen
wipers are fitted.
Full-pressure lubrication is used in
the motor, the sump capacity being 2gal.
Oil is drawn from the crankcase by a
pump driven from the camshaft' by
helical gears and located externally on the
near side of the crankcase. Oil is taken
through a passage drilled in the pump
casing to a large external filter, thence
to the main delivery pipe feeding main,
big-end and camshaft bearings and
clutch, excess oil being by-passed back
to the suction side of the pump through
a release valve. After use the oil gravi-
tates back to the sump, passing through
a tray-type gauze filter covering the
whole area of the crankcase.
Cooling water is circulated by centri-
fugal pump, temperature control being
by thermostat. Radiator cooling is
assisted by a four-bladed fan designed to
minimise “auvroar” at high speeds. Trans-
mission is through a
special type clutch
running in oil. The
central-driven member
comprises a double
line of cork inserts in
a plate, the plate itself
being spring-mounted
on the driven shaft.
The driving faces are
the rear face of the
flywheel and the for-
ward face of the rear
pressure plate. Ad-
justment of pedal
travel is effected by
turning a nut on the
end of the clutch pedal actuating the cable,
A three-speed-and-reverse gearbox
with central change-speed control is in
unit with engine and clutch. Synchro-
mesh mechanism is used on top and
middle gears, and the gearbox is pro-
vided with an accessible filling orifice
and dipstick oil level indicator and pro-
tected by a thick dustproof rubber cover,
A Spicer tubular propeller shaft with
needle-bearing universal joints at both
ends transmits drive to the silent spiral-
bevel final-reduction gears and differen-
tia.l in the rear-axle housing. Axle
shafts are three-quarter floating type,
Operating cylinder and control gear of
hydraulic jacking system.
Final reduction ratio is 4.454 to 1 in top,
direct drive 7.46 to 1 second and 15.09
to 1 bottom gear.
The chassis frame is of robust design,
and incorporates box-sectioned side
members spreading into generous cross
bracing, and is further strengthened by
heavy cross members.
Track is 4ft. Bin.; wheelbase, 12Hin.;
minimum road clearance, Bin.
The suspension system comprises long
semi-elliptic springs fore and aft con-
trolled by Luvax hydraulic shock-
absorbers. Spring eyes are fitted with
flanged non-squeak bushes to reduce side
play. Stabilising bumpers are fitted at
front to counteract periodic vibration.
Large-section low-pressure 7.00 x 16
tyres are fitted to road wheels.
Built-in hydraulic jacks are fitted to
the chassis, thus enabling all four wheels
to be lifted from the ground simul-
taneously, or alternatively front or rear
wheels only when desired, the master con-
trol, located beneath floorboards in front
of the driver’s seat, being set in the de-
sired position by turning a knurled knob.
Steering gear is Bishop-cam type, pro-
viding finger-light yet positive control.
Steering wheel is racing type, rubber
mounted, with flexible spokes reducing
road shocks and eliminating fatigue on
journeys. Track-rod bearings arv
self-adjusting. Turning circle, e a
ri §ht lock, is 39 feet,
Service, foot-operated brakes are
of self-equalising internal-expanding
hydraulic type, while the emergency
hand brake, located horizontally between
the front seats, is cable-operated, pro-


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
r&A
yA
%
f/3
top
“DULUX” as a car-finish cannot be
bettered. It dries HARD; it retains
its lustre longer; is easier to keep
clean and bright, and has far
greater wear-resistance! Ask your
re-finisher about this amazing
“miracle finish.”
★ A Product of British Australian Lead if
i Manufacturers Pty. Ltd., makers of
famous “ Duco ” Lacquers and
No. 7 Specialities for the Motorist.”
DB9
BALM
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
• • • •:
It’s Not what you PAY
it’s what you RECEIVE ...
m
®*SE
mm mm
>»Bg
v -,
<■£:■: v*c
m
.
• •
r*.
£■::s& $
1.1
4
?s*>
}fwf«
88*
V- .:
sMSSSs
Sis
■
iHll
Ji
mm
&sZxm
SsSSs
mm
m
\
\.^4g
*
'
Vai#nE
SAFER
BUYING
VALVOLINE is the finest Oil your money can
buy. It is'sold in "tamper-proof" tins, being
sealed against substitution, adulteration, dirt
and short measure.
Valvoline Oil costs a little more but goes much
further and makes every engine part last longer.
Ask your garageman!
Advt. of J. CARRIGAN. Sydney. Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth
H 2-36
vision being made for instantaneous ad-
justment at the base of the brake lever.
The bodywork is neatly designed, clean
exterior, sloping windscreen and inde-
pendently mounted streamlined guards
giving the car a distinctive and smart
appearance. An efficient ventilating sys-
tem is incorporated in front and rear
quarter windows.
The instrument panel is in the centre
of the dash, and holds speedometer,
clock, ammeter, oil-
pressure indicator,
electrical fuel
gauge, ignition
switch (with winter
and summer charg-
ing rate control)
and head- and side-
light switches, all
very neatly
grouped.
Seating capacity
is five adults, the
front seats being of
adjustable bucket
type.
The car tested
was a four-door
sedan driven by H.
T. Hayward, of
York Motors, Ltd.,
N.S.W. distributors.
Speedometer read-
ing stood at 2677
miles, and the car,
together with
driver, observer and full fuel tank,
weighed 33cwt.
Driving through city traffic, one was
impressed with the excellence of top-
gear acceleration and flexibility. The
generous lock and light steering per-
u , 6 , u & y
muted traffic problems to be overcome
ease ‘
Passing through Parramatta and on the
open road through Baulkham Hills, the
car hummed along at a steady 45-50
m.p.h., and at this speed a slightly greater
throttle opening met with instant re-
sponse, indicating ample reserve of
power
Approaching Windsor speed was re-
i * Z, u a -.u •
~ * ~ and ™ th m
neutral a distance of 728 yards was
coasted before coming to a standstill,
proving freedom of bearings and correct
alignment of all running gear.
A test of maximum speed was then
made over a measured mile with flying
start, clocking 49 2-ssec. and averaging
72.87 m.p.h. Over this section the car
steered positively, with a distinct absence
of swaying or yawing.
Leaving Richmond the by-pass dirt
roa rou ®!\ Grose Vale was taken,
and on this section, heavy and
rough owing to recent rain, the sus-
pension system proved excellent, while
roadholding and cornering were of a
similar high order.
Before attempting the speed hill climb
on Kurrajong Mountain the pilot re-
quested permission to make an effort in
top gear, and after removing the spare
wheel the full test climb was negotiated
in top, crossing the finishing line in 4min.
27sec., the motor finally stalling in
extremely heavy going a few yards from
the summit—an extremelv good effort,
Part section of Morris 25 engine, showing internal
construction.
and one possibly never before accom-
plished by a sedan of British origin.
On * be s P e£ d climb over the 2 1-5-miic
cou rse, the time taken, 3min. 48sec.,
® a .Y e a 1 rLie indication of the ex-
Pf f°™ a "« POJsib le with the
Morns 25. Over this difficult section the
car he|d , he road we]|; wjth no swaying
on corners.
Returning down the mountain a test
of braking equipment was made, the
brakes pulling on smoothly and without
jar. Taking the cross-country road via
Castlereagh to Penrith further traffic tests
were made. That of covering 350 yards
as slowly as possible in top, followed by
( arda ™ ful ' 1hr . 0,,1e , in “>(• a « ain
showed the 25 to advantage, the slow
sec tj on being clocked in 3min. 6sec.,
averaging 3.8 m.p.h., whilst the acceler-
ated section was timed in 15 4-ssec.,
crossing the finishing line at between 55
and 60 m.p.h. and averaging 45.5 m.p.h.
From 10 to 30 m.p.h. In top occupied
8 3-ssec. ; 10 to 30 in second, 5 4-ssec.
From a standing start to 50 m.p.h. was
clocked in 13 2-ssec.—a really snappy
Performance.
F { om 25 m -P- h - the brakes stopped the
“0“ ffif'journey of 124 miles sgal.
3qt, of fuel was consumed, averaging
21.5 m.p.g. (35.4 ton miles). The aver-
age speed, inclusive of all tests, was
34.6 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
H.A. (Ballarat, Vic.). — When running along
in top gear in my 1-h.p. ’2B model car, each
time the foot is taken from the accelerator a
distinct whine is heard beneath the floorboards.
In intermediate gears the trouble is not
apparent. Cause and cure ?
Trouble is due to wear in the clutch thrust-
race, probably aggravated by slight end-play of
the crankshaft. Remedy is to renew thrust-race
in clutch.
* * * *
E.P.L. (Portland, Vic.). — Although I have
done only 6000 miles in my ’35 \2-h.p. car, l
have to top-up the radiator every few days.
All water-joints are tight, and the cooling sys-
tem has been flushed out on three occasions
without rectifying the trouble. Any suggestions ?
In a comparatively new car such as you
describe the trouble is probably due to either
faulty timing or a “stuck” thermostat in the
header tank. First check valve and ignition
timing with instruction-book, and, if this is
correct, remove the thermostat in the circu-
lating system. If the waste of water ceases,
have the thermostat examined and correctly
adjusted.
Jf« sfc * *
J.J.K. (Captain's Flat, N.S.W.). — Where can
l obtain a book dealing with the mechanism
of the F 8 Ford ?
Write to Hastings, Deering, Ltd., Wattle-
street, Ultimo, Sydney.
* * *
L.N. (Waitara, M.L.). — My ’26 car at 28,000
miles has tightened up in the gear lever, and
now it is difficult to tell when it is in neutral.
Clutch looks all right through inspection plate.
Cause and cure ?
First flush out and refill with exact amount
of oil stated in instruction book. If this does
not effect a cure the trouble is due to a worn
thrust race, involving dismantling to free the
gear lever.
* S: * *
W.H.M. (Roma, Q.). —(1) My 4-cyl. ’2B model
car has registered 60,000 miles, and now on a
heavy pull in top gear, or whenever the engine
labors, a loud lapping noise is heard, which, l
understand, is caused by pinking. Is so, what
can I do ? (2) The oil pump works in con-
junction with the accelerator, and on a recent
trip of 400 miles the pressure gauge did not
register when coasting, so the actuating rods
were shortened, resulting in pressure at 30
m.p.h. now showing 20 on gauge. Will this
do any harm ? (3) Where in Sydney can I
procure a new crown wheel and pinion for
this model ?
(1) It is unlikely the knock is due to pink-
ing unless a considerable time has elapsed
since last decarbonisation or a change to in-
ferior fuel has been made. Most probably the
trouble is due to piston or gudgeon-pin slap,
due to excessive wear. (2) With hot oil in
a motor of this age it is usual for pressure
to drop to zero when coasting. Advise restor-
ing pump linkage to original setting. (3) Write
S. F. Hill Motors, Ltd., William-street, Sydney.
* * * *
R.R.R. (Cloncurry, N.Q.). — I have a ’35 sedan
which has done only 1400 miles, and, on put-
ting one gallon of petrol in the rear tank
recently after draining it for a petrol test, the
engine would not run and I had to add more.
Is this right ?
Depends upon whether the car was on a
level surface. The tank is built with a flat
bottom, and if car stood on a steeply-cambered
road the small quantity might not immerse the
fuel pipe, although in normal running, owing
to swirling action, most would be used. In
making fuel tests you should use at least four
gallons, and carefully measure what is left at
conclusion. Alternately you could fit an
auxiliary tank attached to the windscreen pillar
or some portion of the dash.
J.W.S. (Brisbane). —(1) Is chrome leather
genuine, or will it chip similar to fabricord ?
How should it be cleaned and preserved ? (2)
Are cork-faced clutches liable to burn out, and
do they offer any advantages ? (3) Fuel gauge
on my car stops at 5 when tank is full, and is
generally erratic. Any cure, and can I fit a
gauge to the rear tank ? (4) Should I use first-
or second-grade fuel, and why ? (5) What
mixture should be used for painting springs ?
(1) Yes. This leather will wear well and is
not likely to chip. Preserve and clean with
regular applications of a good-quality lino,
polish. (2) They should never burn out, pro-
vided the correct quantity and consistency of
lubricant are maintained. (3) Electric unit in
rear tank should be removed and adjusted to
give a more exact reading. Calibrated glass
gauge could be fitted to end of rear tank at
little cost, but difficulty would be experienced
in making a reading. (4) First-grade gives best
results, owing to high compression used in
the motor. (5) Fifty-fifty mixture of hot light
oil and mineral turps.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Ekib”: A church tower in New York
has a set of 17 chimes made from old
motor brake-drums. They are drilled to
various pitches, and are played with a
hand hammer.
* * * *
“Jeffo”: These modern motorists with
their synchromesh gears and what not
don’t know what hard work driving
could be. In my youth I learnt to drive
on an old French car. It had three for-
ward gears and one reverse, all in a
straight line. One would go through the
lot and. get into top nicely, when an ob-
struction in the traffic would necessitate
stopping. Then, to get into neutral, one
would have to go back through all gears.
Still, we used to get a lot of fun out of
it, and when in top gear, which was a
direct drive, the car ran along almost
silently.
[Delage and Renault were both fitted
with quadrant change in pre-war days,
and many mistakes were made by drivers
changing over from one to the other. The
reason was that, while Delage reverse posi-
tion was obtained by pushing the gear-
lever right forward towards the engine,
Renault gear positions were exactly oppo-
site, though both factories were within a
stone’s-throw of each other in France.—
Motor Ed.]


"THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a "speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
tbe mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
HIGH PRAISE
IS GIVEN
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
All the news from everywhere
. . . All Saturday’s sport . First
in the State for pictorial interest
. . . Packed with entertainment in
its magazine sections Features
and advertising in four colors.
A.B.C. Certificate, 61,361.
Where else
Could YOU f
Advertise •
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newsnarier House. Collins street.
SYDNEY —p. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F A Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Dtd., Adelaide.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
“The Examiner,” established 1842, is the
oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and
yet is still the most modern paper in the
state. It circulates everywhere in the
North —the home &£ two-thirds of the
population of Tasmania,
b'ull information, copies, advertising rates
of “The Examiner” and "Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from:
LAUNCESTON
EST. 1842
jlAxArusixjf
jbal/y
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st.. Launceston
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of AV.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
got like water. A new frock and hat, her gay
sunshade, and she was quite happy, sauntering up the
beach road or loitering through hibiscus-glowing
lanes. She liked to feel men’s glances admiring the
pretty figure she undeniably made. But Roddy
couldn’t keep pace with it.
Lola’s talents did not lie in the direction of house-
keeping. Roddy was amazed to find that such a
pretty person could be so slovenly in the mornings.
They rented a little cottage in a narrow side-street
running back from the main road. Lola, trailing
about it in a shoddy Japanese kimono, her slim
brown feet bare or thrust into worn-down slippers,
was a contrast to the gaily-dressed, radiant Lola
tripping out in the afternoons. Nor did the little
cottage often present a tidy appearance.
Lola’s belongings were thrown carelessly here,
there and everywhere ; flowers were left too long in
the vases, face-powder drifted into everything. This
last it was that exasperated Roddy most, though he
was not himself the tidiest of men ; he felt his life
was choked with the strongly-scented jasmine powder
that was dearest to his wife. Lola pouted when he
suggested a general clean-up.
“I’m not used to much housework,” she said.
“Goodness knows, mother was as hard-up as
anyone could be, but even she could keep one
houseboy! ”
Roddy gave it up.
It was at this period that the black, bitter moods
began definitely to obsess him. It was usually at night
that they came over him ; the days were busy enough
to one struggling with unfamiliar routine. Then he
would fling out from the little cottage, feeling he could
listen no longer to Lola’s light chatter, look no longer
at her pretty, vapid face. Out of the little-lit town
he would walk, keeping aloof from acquaintances, till
he rounded the points and had the road almost
to himself. Swinging along with the sea-wind
blowing his hair, he could sometimes over-
come them ; but ever more frequently they claimed
him victim.
In them he was obsessed by a hatred of the whites
and, to a lesser degree, the natives ; he felt himself
wronged by both races, and a passionate pity, an
angry championing, urged his whole vehement sym-
pathies to the cause of the men and women of mixed
blood —those who were neither one thing nor the
other and had no secure foothold anywhere. Then
he blamed his domineering father for giving him life
and despised his dark mother because he judged his
father had found it easy enough to have his way with
her. He had written little for months, but his bitter-
ness began to escape now in satiric-edged verses that
appeared furtively in the Sydney paper in which
much of his earlier, more sanguine work had
been printed. But the Rod Laurence who
had been responsible for that earlier vital,
youth-hrimmfcd work had given place to. a bril-
liant cynic.
His desire for solitude and lone walking sank in
abeyance ; he wanted the interest of other minds akin
to his own, and was fated not to find them —in
Levuka, at any rate. He began tentatively to talk to
other young men of mixed blood on the subject that
so obsessed him, and was met at first with blank indif-
ference, till at last his fiery eloquence roused a flicker-
ing interest in them. But that was all he was to get;
further they were not prepared to go. And, inci-
dentally, Roddy himself was not too clear about what
he did want. He did know that he wanted to instil
in these slow-moving minds a pride in their own
mixed blood, a determination to remove all obstacles
from their progress to an equal status, an
equal opportunity. But it was a wasting of
himself, a flinging of his fire and energy against
solid rocks.
They would gather at night in the little verandah
of his house, these young men in whom Island blood
was blended with European. They smoked and
listened to Roddy, and sometimes there was excited
argument; and then again the burning topic of them-
selves and their destiny would drop for a time and
they would merely be a cluster of young men discuss-
ing local sport. Lola, much as she liked the company
of young men, left them to themselves when Roddy
aired his queer notions. She would flounce off to
a neighbor’s, for a walk along the sea-wall with some-
one who would say the flattering things Roddy had
given over. Roddy was left with his darling theme
and his half-amused, half-fired audience. Outside in
the Levuka night folk would drift past, the white
frocks of women glimmering ; there would be the
sound of voices and the scent of honeysuckle.. When
the nights were dark torches gleamed in the dusk, but
in the clear moonlight there was little need of them.
Then, indeed, Levuka was a place of mystery and
magic, with the lucid light flooding through it and
the peaks looming dark and fantastic behind it like
walls reared up against the stars. And on Roddy’s
verandah would be a cluster of eager faces, and Roddy
himself carried away with his enthusiasm to dangerous
extremes. Some of them would question his sweeping
statements.
“But, Roddy, to me it is not like that. They don't
treat us like the dirt beneath their feet, like you say.
I got a damn’ good job ; and I’m satisfied —me. I’d
be a plooty fool to kick.”
“What does your job matter?” flared Roddy.
“It’s of the whole situation in general we’ve got to
think. Your own petty job doesn’t matter.”
“By Joves, it does —to me,” said the objector
shrewdly. “What is it your fine talk get us? Kicked
out of our jobs. No damn’ good—that.”
“Hear! Hear!” said a little Samoan quarter-
caste. “More better to keep what we got.”
“Do you want to be the underdog always? Why,
it’s we who should have the say in the Islands. We’re
part of them, with the white in us that sets us above
the natives. Why, in God’s name, should we be put
in the second place? We submit like slaves, like
imbeciles, instead of altering the whole scheme of
things, sweeping it away to make a better, fairer
one.”
They gaped at him ; and Roddy, looking on the
dark faces—some frankly mystified, others catching
fire from him, others hostile, wooden —felt like a man
trying to move mountains.
The talk, the. dangerous, futile, ceaseless talk,
went on.
Chapter XIII.
IN Ruvia an air of depression brooded over the
homestead that had been a place of laughter and
clear young voices. Grimly about it stalked
Laurence, grown more aloof and irritable than he
had ever been. Rod’s name he had forbidden them
to mention. “He’s .dead to me,” he said heavily. 1
want to hear no more of him. Remember that all
of you.” But, stiffly as he carried himself,, he could
not hide his hurt. Nor could he shut Rod out of his
heart. Rod! The little, fair-headed, eager boy and
the young, enthusiastic man walked with him the
hills of Ruvia, flung out airily new and startling
theories of running a plantation, housing Indian labor,
drying copra ; everything under the sun.
He saw him as he sat lonely in his bure at
night, making pretence to read. Saw him come in
breezily, flinging himself full-length on the cane
lounge. Discussing everything under heaven, and
touching whatever he spoke of with his own peculiar
vigor and vitality. His quick mind left the older
man’s slower, surer intelligence plodding behind, but
it stimulated him. His only son! To think that a silly
slip of ivory-and-amber girlhood could wreck all his
hopes! For Rod was turning to Ruvia ; it was only
the girl who had wrecked everything. Lola, he knew,
was nothing ; she had merely been at hand when he
was hurt and stumbling with the pain. She had known
how to lure him with her dark comeliness, her eager
desire that for a little space had eased the smart.
Damn her! Damn them both! —young, feather-brained
girls whom he could have crushed with one hand to
have power enough to wreck all the proud dreams of
his life. If thoughts could have slain, Daphne and
Lola would both have been still enough by now.
Elena went delicately in these days of her
triumph. She began to see all that she had hoped for
coming slowly and surely her way at last. If only
Vivien had been a boy! But no matter. Ruvia would
be hers after her father ; hers and the man she would
eventually marry. As well Denny as another. She,
Elena, could sway Denny ; they would all be happy
together. As for Ruve, she was fond in a way of
Ruve, but she had a shrewd idea that Dick wanted
Ruve. She would have wished it Vivien. But she
would not stand in Ruve’s light there ; let them marry
if they wished. She knew that Dick would soon be
leaving Ruvia. And, once settled on his own land,
he would not be long in his wooing. That would
dispose of Ruve ; and for herself and her daughter
was rich Ruvia. Subtly she worked towards her goal.
News came up from Levuka of Roddy—gossip
of cutter-captains, Fijian men and women going up
and down. He had begun to drink, mixed more with
the colored element than the white, he and Lola
quarrelled often, he was looking haggard and much
older. They knew Laurence heard it all —though he
kept his stubborn silence.
(To be continued next week.)


THE EDITOR’S
DILEMMA.
The editor would like to publish the manu-
script. The subject is interesting* and the
thought good, but the paragraphing is poor,
giving the effect of lack of unity; there are
some obvious grammatical errors, and the em-
phasis is wrongly distributed. The writer
apparently has been at pains to enlarge his
vocabulary, but has not learned how to con-
struct sentences; he is involved and redundant,
and he misses the climaxes that would make
what he has to say sparkle.
The editor hesitates. By rejecting the MS.
forthwith he would save time, but he would
lose an article his readers want. Can he
blue-pencil the offences out, and put some
strength in? He reads the first two pages
again and finds that he cannot. His dilemma
is solved. He rejects the MS.
“WRITING FOR THE
NEWSPAPERS ”
“Writing for the Newspapers” is a Course
of training prepared and conducted conjointly
by Bernard Cronin and E. H. Welford. It
concerns itself with the difficulties of inex-
perienced writers as indicated in the pre-
ceding paragraphs.
The Course consists of eight lessons. It
covers all the requirements, general and par-
ticular, of newspaper paragraphs and articles.
It is a complete training, including not only
the writing of articles and paragraphs, but
also selection of subjects and methods of treat-
ment for different kinds of publications.
The chapter headings of the eight lessons
are: General Requirements, Subjects and the
Source of Ideas; Paragraphing an Article;
Unity and Examples; Punctuation; Distribu-
tion of Emphasis and Brevity; Hints and
Errors; the Range of Consciousness; Conden-
sation and Expansion; the Effective Vocabulary
and the Business Side of Writing.
Throughout the Course the pupil is re-
quired to conform to newspaper practice and
to write articles and paragraphs under strict
newspaper conditions. The lessons themselves
deal with the many common faults which may
spoil an otherwise acceptable article. The
exercises are searching and the standard of
work demanded of the pupil high. Each para-
graph and article written by the pupil is
criticised in detail from the editorial stand-
point and as a piece of writing, with the
object of bringing it, if possible, up to publica-
tion standard.
The Course gives just the help and stimulus
which the inexperienced but ambitious writer
needs.
If you are interested and will communicate
with E. H. Welford at 398 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, he will send you further particulars of
this Course of training, and will be pleased to
discuss with you your writing experience and
aspirations.
E. H.. WELFOBU PTV., LTD.,
“Good English and Good Writing,”
Managers of
The WELFORD COURSE IN
ENGLISH, by E. H. Welford and
A. W. B. Welford, M.A. (Cantab.),
The BERNARD CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE, by Bernard
Cronin,
WRITING FOR THE NEWS-
PAPERS—a course in the writing
of paragraphs and articles for
Australian newspapers and
periodicals,
CRITICAL SERVICE TO
WRITERS. Criticism of indivi-
dual MSS. and advice on publica-
tion by Bernard Cronin.
Particulars of any, or gll, of these
courses will be sent post free on
application to
E. H. WELFORD PTY., LTD.,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
H.R.H.
Prince Charles of
Sweden.
Lieut.-General
Lord Baden-Powell,
K.C.8., K.C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout,”
Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch. ”
The Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas,
Secretary of State for
the Dominions.
“ Pelmanism smooths away all
difficulties rr
(Dame Sybil Thorndike)
The Signatures
The signatures in this announce-
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
the Pelman Institute. Signatures
differ as much as faces differ, and,
like faces, they often surprise us
"'hen we meet them by their un-
likeness to our conception of them.
We are sure that readers of “The
Bulletin” will be interested in these
signatures of well-known Pelman-
ists. ,
I)R. V. W. NORWOOD, D.D.,
of the City Temple,- London,
Who describes Pelmanism as
“The Key to a Man’s Career.”
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute:
Liege .... 1830 Nancy 1933
Geneva .... 1933 Paris 1933
The more important personal qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
are: —•
Self-Confidence
Initiative
Social Ease
Courage '
Concentration
Observation
Judgment;
Recision
and a Reliable Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind,
More than half a million men and
worrien have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 33,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 30 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Elinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
The Effect of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is a
working course in Practical Psychology directed to the needs of the average man
and woman.
The obvious effect of the Pelman Training, observable very early in the
Course, is a quick and accurate memory for faces, names, facts, figures, business
conversations, for what has been said and what has been read, for what has been done
and what is to do, for cards, languages, and the general material of work or study.
There is a quickening of the natural perceptive faculties reflected in increased
ability to concentrate, greater powers of decision, and much greater confidence, so
that we find Pelmanists in all walks of life accepting cheerfully, inside and outside
their occupations, responsibilities that they were once afraid of.
They seek and get' better positions, they are able to speak without notes, they
meet others on terms'of equality, they accept office in Lodge, in Council, in
Parliament, and acquit themselves creditably.
In short, Pelmanists carry within themselves a wider range of consciousness,
greater aptitudes, and justified self-confidence, qualities which give personality and
mark their possessors for advancement and progress.
Pelmanism is for anyone who has aspirations
and ambition
The Chain of Personal Reference
Accompanying the textbooks of Pelmanism, containing information and
graded mental exercises of great practical value, there are Progress Work Sheets to
be submitted to the Institute. These Work Sheets are carefully revised by qualified
Examiners and returned with letters of advice. ' > '
Progress Work Sheets and Letters combined constitutes a chain of personal
references in which the full scope of the Pelman System is brought to bear on the
development of the student and on his personal difficulties. This thorough revisional
work is an outstanding feature of the Pelman training.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 11255.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin" a copy
Of “The liffici.ent Mind,” 70
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
Or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pel man Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
336 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.” '
Name
Address
418
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist.
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economics.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
—
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
&
0
o v-V^
\> eY
■
e °
5# «V
V O' V dfvl
t'°
gv 0<
e 1
F
ejcc
e^V*>
, r e
;,'s e V
.‘6
o'' e
,OV*
\s s
tS ‘
#*
••*** ••** JV
...•••


New Head Office for
Australia’s Most Progressive
Life Assurance Institution-
s'© A.C.A.
“Careful handling of the
business from the com-
mencement, notably a
close grip on expenses,
resulted in a quick accu-
mulation of funds; dis-
creet investment (largely
in first mortgages) brought
handsome interest returns.
Bonuses quickly followed
—they were earned within
the first 10 years of the
co/s life, a remarkable
achievement and in-
creased support from new
and old policy-holders has,
over the past three years,
resulted in an annually-
increasing, buoyant in-
co m e.” “The Bulletin,”
9/ 10 (’ 35-
mp
*?' ;■
A
&
c
% iMWfeljfl
KmSSImSt
“No other Australasian
life office founded since
the war has been able
to equal the A.C.A.’s
record of steady progress.
. . ..The reversionary
bonuses are now payable
at the rate of £2/12/6
per £ 100 on whole of
life policies, and £l/15/-
per £lOO on endowment
assurance policies; these
rates compare very favor-
ably with —-and in many
cases are actually higher
than —the bonuses at pre-
sent allotted by the
majority of the older-
established life offices.”
—“Australasian Insurance
Journal” 79/72/^5.
The 14-storeyed modern-style structure, on the corner of King and York Streets,
Sydney, to be occupied by the company on February 17, 1936. Over 80 per cent,
of the floor-space has already been let at rentals which will make this a highly-
profitable investment for policy-holders.
New Premises of Similar Design are being erected at 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE (until Feb. 17):
OCEAN HOUSE, 34 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary. E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
BRANCH OFFICES:
475 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
C. A. ADAMS, Resident Secretary.
WARWICK HOUSE, ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
B. MURPHY, Resident Secretary
29 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
F. C. LOCK, Resident Secretary.
A.C.A. BUILDING, 270-272 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
M. J. HOGAN, Resident Secretary.
DISTRICT OFFICES & AGENCIES THROUGHOUT THE STATES
