

Life Assurance
In Octpber, 1935, a Member, 23
next birthday, effected a Policy
on his life for £3OOO, and paid
a quarter's premium of £l 5/ 1 5/-.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for
1935 was £B6/5/0 I
Full particulars will be forwarded
on application.
ķ
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Life Assurance
The only Business Certainty
PROTECTION OF ESTATE OR
BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR
CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORT-
GAGE
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Given to the Policy
Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves.
Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2935.
“Splendid Work for Victoria ” (Page 8)
Wednesday, May 13, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street , Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 336
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows;
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HOUSMAN’S
POETRY
A. E. Hous-
man, to Grant
Richards, the pub-
lisher: “I am not
a poet by trade ;
I am a Professor
of Latin. I do not wish to make profit
out of my poetry. It is not my business.
The Americans send me cheques. I
return them.” If there was any profit
on The Shropshire Lad, he suggested, it
should be applied to a reduction in the
price. Richards met Housman’s wish
with the vest-pocket sixpenny edition of
1900, not difficult then, “especially with
a man who would accept no royalty.”
The curious will find a small mine of
similarly interesting Housman informa-
tion in Author Hunting, where Mr.
Richards speaks with more enthusiasm of
Housman’s two slender books than of
all the authors he has published put to-
gether, and these include Shaw and Mase-
field, among others. One piece of ore
in this mine is that A Shropshire Lad,
first published in 1896 by Kegan Paul
in an edition of 500 —at the author's
expense—was not sold out two years
later. It had been—on the advice of
John Morley, it is said—rejected by Mac-
millan.
At 77—as a precisian that figure must
have suited him —Housman has joined
Dick of the “prompt hand and headpiece
clever,”
Has woven a winter robe,
And made of earth and sea
His overcoat for ever,
And wears the turning globe.
It is not unlikely that he left some verses
to be published, but it is certain there
would not be many. No poet has faced
the judgment of posterity with so slender
a sheaf: 104 lyrics is the total of it: and
the verdict of posterity may be that no
poet, either, has faced the judgment with
so singularly uniform a high perform-
ance.
It is a curious fact that, while columns,
reams, books, whole libraries have been
confidently written about poets and
poetry in and of his time, either in de-
voted praise or disparagement, he and his
poetry have always been approached ten-
tatively, though pretty well invariably, if
awkwardly and uncertainly, they have
been praised. Nearly all who have
spoken of poetry in this time have had
his name and poetry on their lips, and
only on their lips. One of the first to
praise him openly—and that was immedi-
ately—was Richard Le Gallienne, though
he did it in terms that must have made
Housman squirm.
Of others who have praised him since
every one that I can recall has spoken
of Housman’s “pessimism.” Now, it
would be about the limit of bad criticism
to try to represent Housman as a bright
and cheery, or even a cheering, poet, as
these terms are generally accepted in an
age that puts a chocolate-box value upon
human life. But to shunt him off with
such a cheap thing as “pessimism” is
surely no less false. The word all these
people are after seems to me to be “fatal-
ism.” That Housman had ; it is his con-
tinuous theme; the “meaning,” with
hardly an exception, of every poem he
wrote ; certainly the sum of his poetic
statement. But that, it seems to me, is
a rather different thing from “pessimism,”
a cheap and shabby word, with a cheap
and shabby meaning. For “pessimism,”
in my definition, is not, as “fatalism”
is, a complete and dignified acceptance of
the inevitable ; it is a moaning before
the bar is reached ; an inverted remorse ;
a fretful calamity howling at what’s to
come. Yet critics, professing to esteem
Housman, charge him with this poor-fish
spirit.
One, I recall, spoke of his “catastro-
phic despair,” which is better, but not
much better. In “fatalism” —the Diggers
knew it, and embraced it in France and
elsewhere ; that and comradeship are what
in Housman widely appealed to them
—you have gone beyond “despair” ; for
the sufficient reason that if you stayed
there you would go mad. In this beyond
you will accept what is inevitable, not
quibble with it. It is not at all the same
thing as that “destiny which shapes our
ends, rough hew them how we may.”
That is a romantic notion compared with
it; a piece of pure flattery, conjuring up
in another shape the personally interested
angels. But “fatalism,” as I read it with
Housman, is beyond the need of such
romance: it seeks no such sustaining.
It faces the whole inevitable, without
illusions. That seems to me the com-
pletely heroic; but, apparently, it is a
more courageous thing to go armored
with fantasy. Otherwise the charge of
“pessimism” cannot lie with Housman,
for all that he has done to warrant the
charge is to drop that armor and look
about him. And this seems to me to be
true and courageous together even if we
take such a poem as his “Eight O’Clock”
and invest its superb poetry with a com-
prehensive application to mankind;
He stood, and heard the steeple
Sprinkle the quarters on the morning town.
One, two, three, four, to market-place and
people
It tossed them down.
Strapped, noosed, nighing his hour,
He stood and counted them and cursed his
luck;
And then the clock collected in the tower
Its strength, and struck.
I have tried to clarify what I accept
as the singular courage of Housman be-
cause in 99 out of 100 attempts that will
be made to appraise him the charge of
“pessimism” will flourish. There is not
only this supreme courage in his poems;
that could be somehow expressed in any
sort of verse or in prose. Altogether
more importantly, there is some of the
finest of poetry. He himself, straying
away from Latin to lecture on poetry at
Cambridge, gave this definition:—'
I think that to transfuse emotion —not
to transmit thought but to set up in the
reader’s sense a vibration corresponding to
what was felt by the writer —is the peculiar
function of poetry.
This, it seems to me, is felt often in A
Shropshire Lad, and almost continuously
in Last Poems, from;
Beyond the moor and mountain crest
—Comrade, look not on the west —
The sun is down and drinks away
From air and land the lees of day.
The long cloud and the single pine
Sentinel the ending line.
And out beyond it, clear and w r an,
Reach the gulfs of evening on.
on through
The chestnut casts his flambeaux, and the
flowers
Stream from the hawthorn on the wind away;
and
The troubles of our proud and angry dust
Are from eternity, and shall not fail.
Bear them we can, and if we can we must.
Shoulder the sky, my lad, and drink your
ale.
and
These, in the day when heaven was falling,
The hour when earth’s foundations fled;
throughout it is there; and it seems to
me that it is poetry of the purest.
On the debit side there is the restricted
range: more than three-quarters of nis
poems are variations on the one theme,
and very little varied. He reduced man-
kind to too simple a formula ; his con-
ception of the world was, in fact, a “turn-
ing globe,” on a schoolroom pedestal. He
understood the comradeship of men, as
no other poet has ever understood it;
but that and perhaps a rustic acknow-
ledgment of sex were the extent of his
awareness of human emotion. There is
no overwhelming power of drama, no
breadth of outlook ; all mankind is re-
duced to the simplest, if not the lowest,
common denominator. His verse is so
simple that some find it bare, but the
truth is that it is not so simple as it
looks: in its naturalistic management of
dialogue and in its fusing of classic
poetic language with the vernacular it is
anything but “simple.” The writing is
never worse than: —
West and away the wheels of darkness roll,
Day’s beamy banner up the east is borne
both the imagery and the juvenile allit-
eration of which are certainly bad
enough.
Housman,! in the remarks to Grant
Richards at the beginning of this article,
was speaking genuinely. Poetry was not
his trade. He rarely worked hard at it.
He is one of the very few instances—I
cannot really think of any other at all-
ot a poet who took what came to him
in moments of exalted excitement—in
fact, by inspiration—and left it at that.
He complained before his Cambridge
audience of the exceptional instance of a
poem of which three stanzas had come
to him but a fourth was needed: “I had
to turn to and compose it myself, and
that was a laborious business. I wrote
it 13 times, and it was more than a
twelvemonth before I got it right.”
CECIL MANN.
The Literary
Deluge
In reply to
Gerald Dillon’s
profusely mathe-
matical sophistry
(R.P. . 22/4/’36)-,
might I suggest
that he has missed the point and failed
to apprehend that scope of my argu-
ment? I neither affirmed nor denied
that literary work of great excellence
was being produced at present. And
heaven forbid that I should be so en-
veloped in conceit as to believe myself
a critic competent to pass judgment on
contemporary literary production. The
purpose of my article was not critical
and dogmatic, but analytical and induc-
tive.
Avoiding unfruitful comparisons be-
tween individual authors, I analysed as
well as I could the influence of the
organisation and conditions of life on
literary production in the past and in
the present. I contend that the result of
that analysis indicates that the condi-
tions of- modern life are not favorable to
the production of literature of the
highest class in the abundance and
variety which distinguished the greatest
literary epochs of the past.
But I will not shun Gerald Dillon’s
argument. I confess that not only am I
not one-quarter abreast of contemporary
literary production, but I am not one-
hundredth or even one-thousandth
abreast of literary production in the Dil-
lonian sense. Gerald Dillon overlooks
the fact that a considerable part of this
vast production consists of technical
works which could not be regarded as
literary masterpieces even by those
modern poets who deal in precision ex-
pressed in jangles. And another large
part consists of cheap novels of the
bookstall type which might contain a
literary masterpiece once in a century
but probably would not. Certainly the
residue of serious attempts at literary
excellence is too vast for any one per-
son to express an independent opinion
on. its merit.
But, then, I am not so egotistic as to
wish to rely solely on my own opinion.
I am quite willing to restrict my reading
to those works to which the general
opinion of intelligent critics, purchasers
of books and subscribers to circulating
libraries attributes outstanding merit.
True, general opinion may pass over a
masterpiece which is not in harmony
with the spirit of the age. But such a
work cannot be claimed as a native and
authentic production of our age. It is
a child of Chance, which has deposited
in this age a mind which belongs to the
spirit of a past or a future age.
Admittedly, the individual cannot form
an authoritative opinion on one-t'enth of
the 16,678 books produced in Great
Britain in 1935. But the millions of
minds which make up the intelligent por-
tion of the reading public can pass judg-
ment —fallible certainly, but seldom
wholly unfounded. In this age of com-
petent criticism, voracious readers and
conversational exuberance there is as
much truth as ever in the ancient proverb
“Good wine needs no bush.”
TOOWONG.
Maoriland
Bibliomania
A most instruc-
tive guide to prac-
titioners of this
still reasonably
inexpensive form
of lunacy has just
been compiled by Johannes Andersen,
keeper of the institution which houses
the collection of one of the most illus-
trious addicts, the Alexander Turnbull
Library, at Wellington (M.L.). Entitled
The Lure of New Zealand Book Collect-
ing (7s. 6d.), the book is so admirably
turned out by Whitcombe and Tombs—
inside, that is ; its cover is nothing won-
derful —that it should take a place in
any collection of handsomely done Aus-
tralian and Maoriland books.
The maker of such a collection would
have at least one advantage over such
bibliomaniacs as the one who had to buy
eight houses to hold his library—he
would need a minimum of shelving. Nor
would very much shelving be needed to
hold what is really established as worth
collecting in Mr. Andersen’s engaging
book. It would be a comparatively small
but a very interesting library. Another
advantage which Mr. Andersen indicates
is that, as yet, many of the books —if, of
course, they are discovered —are not really
costly compared with the fabulous prices
paid by these inoffensive maniacs in
larger places of the genial lunacy like
London. The bait Mr. Andersen tan-
talisingly dangles before the doomed fish
is that these pieces he mentions will cer-
tainly rise in price: already some of them
go as high as £30 or so.
Mr. Andersen enlivens what is alto-
gether a charming discursive librarian’s
book with capital personalia, its most
picturesque figure one Bob Thatcher, an
itinerant, scurrilous minstrel, who went
from one M.L. town to another compos-
ing and singing to popular tunes songs in
which disreputable local history was re-
corded. Naturally the victims were in-
furiated, but audiences were delighted.
As the bee often does, Bob left his sting
behind, publishing a local collection of
the insulting songs in towns he’d visited.
These little items are now treasure-trove
to M.L.’s bibliomaniacs. In case anyone
feels ambitious to emulate Bob, that
worthy was a big chap, and handy with
his fists.
KIRIB.
"Sandford and
Merton”
Up to Date
A New Earth
and New Heaven,
by William Boyle
Hill (Watts and
Co., 7s. 6d.), has
as its hero Henry
Thorough, aged
107, who made a fortune in mining
speculation in 1911 and devoted the rest
of his life and most of his fortune to
almsgiving, choosing as the objects of his
{Continued on page 4.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Always.
“The Senior Store ”
“While l Live I’ll Grow
i : y0 m
TREE
r t \-4G €d--'s
AND BOOTS AND SHOES
Work boots, riding boots, officers’ heavy service boots, as well as
smart shoes for tov/n wear, are illustrated here at particularly keen
prices. They are our famous “Tree” Brand
makes, designed on comfortable lasts from the
best selected leathers. “Tree” Brand Footwear
keeps its new look longer—wears better —and
travels farther. No matter what style you choose,
you know that you wear an authentic style,
fashioned of the best materials.
/v
“TREE” BRAND SUPER HANDCRAFT SHOES
Made on popular extended last from selected
high-polishing Willow Calf, with stout single
soles and genuine welts. Smart and comfort-
2816
able. Full and half sizes.
Price, pair
28/6
■
TREE BRAND SUPER HANDCRAFT SHOES
Designed for ease and comfort from high-
grade imported Brown Glace Kid, neatly
punched and silk-stitched. Full and half sizes
2816
are available.
Price, pair . .
28/6
'
k
■m
< (//A
rl-i
IP
' 'P^p, (
“TREE” BRAND
ELASTIC RIDING BOOTS
“TREE” Brand
Elastic Riding
Boots with extra
light standard
screwed soles. Full and half sizes.
PRICE, pair 19/6
With Buckle and Strap .... 22/6
In Tan Willow and Black Box Calf.
Genuine Welted soles
Price, pair
HEAVY DUTY
OFFICERS’ BOOTS
Tan
Willow
and
Black Box Calf. Full
and half size fittings.
Price 30/-
30-
m
m
SMART “TREE” BRAND SUPER BROGUES
Well-dressed men always choose our famous “Tree”
Brand Super Shoes. They are made from high-grade
Tan Willow, Brown Calf and Black Box Calf in full
and half sizes. With stout, welted soles, they are ideal
2716
for winter. Price, pair
2 7/6
VV;
Ha
m
y 3
%Si3Ss-
“TREE” BRAND
OFFICERS' BOOTS
2216
S p e cial
Officers’
Boots
construc-
ted for heavy duty and lasting
comfort. Our well-known
“Tree’’ Brand in Tan Willow
and Black Box Calf, with extra
stout genuine welted soles.
Full and half sizes are avail-
able.
Price, pair
22/6
«
TREE
99
BRAND
COSSACKS
“Tree” Brand
Riding
Cossacks,
made of
selected light-
weight Wallaby with extra light
standard screwed soles. These
boots are carefully designed for
the horseman to give maximum
comfort as well as service.
Price, pair 17/6
17/6
n \i
Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all railway stations
in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
FAMOUS
FOR LOW
PRICES


ĸ
moi£. tHoJcriltiq ml&o
ifauA wtcttey
WITH
Super Plume 2tU
-■- THE S POWER PETROL §
CMMOm MoMloil
PRACTICALLY 100X PURE LUBRICANT
philanthropy teetotallers, non-smokers,
non-gamblers, vegetarians and addicts of
various brands of occultism.
In twenty-four years he dealt with
30,000 cases and found that in 63 p.c. of
these the Demon Rum and in 15 p.c. the
habit of backing wrong-’uns was the
cause of misfortune. Possibly the remain-
ing 22 p.c. would have had as much luck
in the sharemarket as Mr. Thorough if
they had eschewed meat and attended
table-rapping seances. Mr. Thorough is
made to converse extensively with a high-
minded young man named Rupert.
Rupert, after a couple of hundred pages
of elevating conversation with his men-
tor, goes on his travels and finds in
Northern Australia Dawn City, where
all the inhabitants subscribe to the good
Mr. Thorough’s principles, work only 24
hours a week, and spend the rest of the
time in sleeping, nut-crunching, elevating
conversation and communication with the
spirits of the departed.
This commentator has never met a
pair of prigs he so thoroughly detested as
Mr. Thorough and his disciple, but he
has to hand the author a bouquet for his
ideas on house-construction. The walls
all roll up like blinds, the furniture can
be hoisted to the ceiling and a spring-
cleaning is merely a matter of vacuum-
cleaning the mats and running a hose
over the entire rubber floor. Reinforced
terracotta makes the framework, and Mr.
Hill (he’s a Sydney resident, by the way)
assures his readers, not without warrant,
that it will last for ever.
A. D. W
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Questions of Our Day Havelock Ellis.
Cosmopolitans W. Somerset Maugham.
The Baroness Ernst Wiechert.
IT would seem that the art of Dorothy
* Dix is not to be altogether despised:
its method, at least, might be usetul, as
Havelock Ellis demonstrated in My Con-
fessional, and demonstrates further, on
the same lines, in Questions of Our Day
(Bodley Head; Bs. 6d.). For both these
interesting books are modelled on the
method of Dorothy, and in some in-
. . , ...
stances the substance, as well, is not with-
out resemblance. That might seem an
inexcusable suggestion to make of so fine
a thinker as Havelock Ellis. Still, some
of the letters on which he bases most of
these brief commentaries are the very
stuff on which Dorothy feeds. The right
answer to a few of them would seem to
be a blunt intimation that what the corre-
spondent needed was a sense of humor,
which he, Havelock Ellis, was unfortu-
nately unable to provide. They are never
100 fatuous, too sententious for Mr. Ellis,
With a seriousness matching their own,
he takes these letters from mostly un-
known correspondents in many parts of
the world, and, using them for texts,
discourses upon the great and diverse
range of topics which they suggest—
nudism and war ; “The Problem of the
Japanese Kiss” and “The Problem of the
Ideal Community” ; American literature
and Dr. Johnson’s fame ; Freud, unem-
ployment, hypnotism, hypocrisy—these
and threescore other matters, with his
concise, clear, interesting comment on
each limited to two or three hundred
words. It might be said—it usually is of
such books—that it should be taken in
periodica! doses ; but, apart from his
lively conversational manner, which
leads one on, there is flowing continuity
to Mr. Ellis’s thinking that makes it easy
to follow the narrative of his -thought
continuously. Especially these books
must make a strong appeal to young
people obsessed with problems that seem
insurmountable or inscrutable. To these
he must come as a wise father confessor,
meeting their questions in advance.
T r „ u u i * c .
If ever he had met them, Somerset
Maugham would have had some of Mr.
Ellis’s questioners into his case-book, too ;
fer a rather different use. He would have
dealt with them just as tolerantly as Mr.
Ellis, but lightly, as the proper material
for the slight, engaging comedies he has
gathered into Cosmopolitans (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d.). The title is apt because
it is a cosmopolitan lot of people and
scenes that he presents, but it has an-
other source. The stories were written
on commission for the “Cosmopolitan
Magazine,” with the condition that they
had to be so brief that they could be put
on two pages, with ample illustration, and
no “continued on page 76.” Like Mr.
Ellis’s concise essays, they are a notable
lesson for the long-winded. Anyone might
iea d them and be well entertained: Mr.
Maugham asks of nothing from the
ieac *ci but that he should find them
fusing, and it would be a very dry
!“* , tha . **> tor. though often ex-
tremely slight, they are lively, bright, en-
gaging and continuously amusin|. But
p,,. pr actising story-writer should find
them of especial value. There is not one
Q f them that 99 editors in any 100 would
not rush and ask for more. They are
of little more than 1000 words’ length ;
yet nearly all are complete stories in the
strictest sense of the word. Mr. Maugham
states a dislike for incompleteness ; and
there is none of these stories that does
not give, for all the brevity of them, the
impression that Mr. Maugham has said
all that was to be said, exactly as he
wanted to say it and as it required to be
said. He does not think the stories are
of a kind to be read continuously, but
this book-taster’s liking for them was not
dampened by taking them in that way.
They have, once more in common with
Mr. Ellis’s essays, a definite continuity,
brought about, in this case, by their being
nearly all in the first person singular—
not artificially so, as is usual, and usually
ruinous, when writers adopt that method,
but with Mr. Maugham himself as first-
person narrator. Because, looking amus-
edly upon life, he has a sufficiently engag-
ing personality, the fact that he is in
each of the stories is enough to keep
the reader going from one to the next,
though the scene changes all over the
place, from Paris to Thursday Island and
China to South America,
Ernst Wiecherfs fantasy novel The
Baroness (Allen and Unwin . 7s . 6cL) is
, , unusual Taken from
, „ . ’ .j, , .
,£ e Gerrmn, it has possibly suffered in
tians l a h n g? th e translators attempting
to preserve a simplicity of the original
■ and investing it with an English prose
, u , , . .f, ~ ° , u v ,
that w,th emotionalism and has too
°^ en the preciousness of oyeidone, con-
scions simplicity. Swallowing that, the
reader will find the narrative a fantasy
quite out of the ordinary: the concep-
tion is of a German peasant soldier, be-
lieved to have been killed in the war,
returning years later, from French prisons
and worse, to be taken by his father for
a spirit, and, befriended by the Baroness
who owns the place, finding gradually a
spiritual peace for himself as keeper of
her forests. It has a fairytale quality, a
naive mysticism and a very lovely setting.
The Cambridge Murders: Adam
Broome (files ; 7s. 6d.). Seems to depend
for its color on the fact that its first two
corpses are negro students, and a near-
corpse that of a professor of anthro-
pology who goes to West Africa for a
refresher course and is potted by a native.
For the rest it is a somewhat overloaded
story that refuses to march, although
four, at least, of its characters travel
thousands of miles, quite apart from the
journeying to that bourne from which
there is no return that two of them are
forced to take.
Death and the Golden Image : Whyte
Hall (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). Deals with the
Spooner scheme for monetary reform:
a band of financiers determined to keep
the world on the gold standard, and an
infallible cancer cure, the chief ingredient
of which is gold—lots of it. The murders
start in a laboratory when a baleful and
unbelievable crook, incited by a British
banker, plugs the chemist who is with-
holding the precious ointment, until the
banker withholds his opposition to the
monetary reform. Asa thriller it is about
as palatable as the ointment. As these
mystery writers deal so much in murder,
the King’s English is never safe. “He
was ages older than her” is at least one
shudder in the book.
The A.B.C. Murders: Agatha Christie
(Crime Club; 7s. 6d.). The real thing:
ingenuity of plot—a railway guide is in
each case the criminal’s card left with
the dead body—and a gallery of charac-
ters, each clearly drawn, all subsidiary to
the central character of all the Christie
novels, the brilliant Belgian sleuth
Hercule Poiret. Over all hangs a sense
of terror, the feeling of a killer at large.
England Have My Bones : T. H. White
(Collins; from Angus and Robertson;
Bs. 6d.). London “Daily Mail” “book of
the month” choice, and already in ivs
fourth impression when this copy
reached Australia. Some have written
better about fishing, about flying, even,
perhaps, about hunting, than Mr. White,
but none has written so well about all of
them together, and few have expressed
so deep and genuine a feeling for the
English country.
High Street, Africa: Henry Birch-
Reynardson (Blackwood; 12s. 6d. net).
Breezy account of a cheery family-party’s
caravaning over Africa. Light, super-
ficial, but entertaining enough to divert
most travel-book addicts.
Modern Ireland: Cicely Hamilton
(Dent; 7s. 6d.). It is impossible to discuss
any aspect of Ireland, ancient or modern,
without stepping on to controversial
ground. Miss Hamilton presents both
sides on every question she touches, and
her absence of prejudice or bias and her
friendliness towards the people of
Ireland, both North and South, breathe
through every page of this remarkably
judicial and informative summary.
Furious Young Man : I. A. R. Wylie
(Cassell, 7s. 6d.). Story of an English
young gentleman whose impatience with
the shortcomings of modern society im-
pelled him to lead hunger marches and
come into conflict with the London
police. Believing he had killed a bobby he
allowed himself to be shipped to Mos-
cow, where in haste he married a
peasant girl, an inveterately class-con-
scious Communist, and at leisure dis-
covered that Communism, translated into
a method of government, becomes a
tyranny as narrow, as ruthless and as
bigoted as any that flourished in
mediaeval times. Characters are well-
drawn, and though the atmosphere
throughout is charged with tragedy the
ending is conventionally happy.
Oil Paint and Grease Paint: Dame
Laura Knight (Ivor Nicholson and Wat-
son ; from Angus and Robertson, 245.).
A simply-told autobiography of the great
woman painter of the circus and the
stage, illustrated with many fine repro-
ductions of her best work. An interest-
ing childhood in England and France, the
years of study and struggle and the fol-
lowing stages towards success in Eng-
land, Europe and America make a
pleasantly entertaining book.
Self and Partners: Sir Charles Holmes
(Constable ; Angus and Robertson ; 275.
6d.). A jolly sense of humor invigorates
these altogether interesting reminiscences
of the Slade Professor and Director of
the two London Galleries, who at an
impecunious stage of his career could
not eat at one London restaurant be-
cause 2s. a meal was impossible extrava-
gance. In the course of schooling, book-
publishing, art journalism and other
attempts to get on his feet, the author
personally encountered a great many
interesting personalities, including Wilde,
upon whom he gives a wholly kindly
report. Typical of the good stories that
color his pages is that of W. G. Grace,
who, when he took a team to play
Oxford, was accidentally served a liqueur
brandy for sherry, became suspicious,
and, “having a head like cast-iron,” in-
sisted on “taking wine” with the Univer-
sity team’s members, to their subsequent
disaster in the field. Sir Charles allows
that Grace
may have had some faint ground for
suspicion. 1 remember when a very
famous professional team of footballers
came to Oxford to play the University,
we were amazed to see their captain fall
flat on his face as he kicked off. They
had been entertained just before to a sump-
tuous lunch, and the University in conse-
quence lost only by four goals to none.
The Way of the Cross: an interpreta-
tion by Frank Brangwyn, with a com-
mentary by G. K. Chesterton (Hodder
and Stoughton ; from Dymock’s). The
story of the Crucifixion depicted in 14
scenes of as powerful and impressive a
kind of realism as has ever been brought
by artist to an interpretation of the
Tragedy. Mr. Chesterton, standing in
almost overwhelmed admiration before
this superb work —as well anyone
might—is practised enough in the in-
troducer’s job to know that the one co-
operation of any use in such combina-
tion of writer with artist in a book is
some help to the lay spectator in getting
from the pictures what they have to give:
Every face is different; and every face
is vigorous, with an ugly energy that is
more attractive than vulgar beauty. It is
important to emphasise this crowded and
tumultuous background of all the pic-
tures, especially in connection with the
grotesque distinction in every face and
gesture, because it leads up to the point of
the most decisive distinction of all. I
have called the drawing exuberant, but it
is the very reverse of careless. It would
be possible to write a page about every
face in that crowd. A face peering but of
some dim corner is often in the exact
sense surprising; to some it will often be
puzzling. For though these masks of the
mob are often extravagant in type, they are
always subtle in intention. The mob is
not a mob, in the sense of men merely
turned into a man, still less into a beast.
There is every shade of every passion, or
lack of passion, that may go to make up
a huge human blunder or crime; as if to
emphasise the deeper doctrinal conception
that every man has his own quarrel with
God.
But even allowing Mr. Chesterton’s
“masks of the mob” its fullest figurative
meaning, the phrase is misleading; for,
about as completely as is possible in black
and white art, these faces are both indi-
vidual and human. Ugly some may find
many of them, but it would be a strangely
confused mind, sickly with lush roman-
ticism, that found any of them repulsive.
The repulsive is the preserve of bad art,
and it is masks with which it is produced.
Mr. Brangwyn’s superb depiction of the
core of Christian belief is supremely
powerful—largely by reason of its uni-
versal humanness.


You'll be Miles better off
wi Ih DUNLOP
w
as* 2
m
PBOT
COO®
33*5
$10
HO®
o
ms
Product of Dunlop Perd
v
DUNLOP
Specify
PERDRIAU
TRIANCLE AA TREAD
Product o( Dunlop 3 o r d ri a u
or
Perdriau
Weftless cord tyres
AS ,,iri AS THE FLAG
and be assured of Greater Mileage and Safety
170


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
I
pi
mm
m*
mmm*
m
m
mm
«**
m*:
m-
m
rmr*
..-■ 5
D • «■
-33
—«.
/v
■
■
Some of the wine-filled casks waiting to be placed in one of the huge storage cellars.
lUne-cfM/ie mellemi£M nnd.bmq/ud


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—-No. 2935.
May : 13, 1936.
NOT GUILTY.
“Haile Silassie, who claims descent from King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, has gone to Palestine.”
“Behold, O King, a little stranger from Ethiopia, the remote consequence of our dalliance—sprung, as it were, from thy loins.”
“You WOULD blame me!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William sjjreet, Adelaide.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London; T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas : 12 months. £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“MORE FAVORABLE THAN EVER.”
After months of vacillation the Commonwealth
Government has taken a plunge at making an oil policy
for Australia. The chief ingredient is an unwarranted
optimism.
Of course, there is nothing new in that. Unwar-
ranted optimism was a feature of the boom in
oil-company promotion which raged seven or eight
years ago. In March, 1929, there were 16 drilling
cos. listed on Melbourne Stock Exchange alone. Issued
capital (including one co. working in Maoriland and
another in Timor) amounted to nearly £1,500,000, and
the market had valued one show (Roma, Ltd.) at
£500,000 ; £1 shares jumped as high as £7 15s. In
March, 1936, only one Australian co. was mentioned
in the Melbourne Stock Exchange record, and there
had been two sales of its shares, paid to 7s. 6d. —
at 2d. and Id.
Nevertheless, the Lyons Government considers
that the “prospects of finding well oil in commercial
quantities are more favorable than ever before.” So,
Commonwealth Governments having spent £589,000
on boring subsidies, it proposes to spend £250,000 in
the same direction, “on the basis of £1 for every £1
of private capital found” ; and perhaps this will start
another boom.
The late Cunningham Craig, who was adviser
to British oil companies, and also to the Ministry for
Munitions during the war, pointed out at the begin-
ning of the last boring boom that virtually all the oil
found in wells came from two regions in the world —
along the European-Asian mountain range fold, and
along that which runs the length of the American
continents. Also, that all flow oil belonged to one
geological period, and then occurred under uniform and
highly specific conditions—where one of the great
folding mountain ranges dropped suddenly down to
sea level or below or to a great river estuary, and
where the fall was associated with big cretaceous
deposits of a certain age.
Such conditions might conceivably be found in
New Guinea, but it has not been proved that they
exist in Australia. If the “good deal of survey work”
which has heartened Mr. Lyons has revealed them,
it would be highly interesting to know exactly where.
But unless the Prime Minister is of opinion that the
formations which Nature gave the continent can be
altered by Act of Parliament there does not seem to
be much hope of success.
Combined with the expensive search for flow
oil, aid is to be given to production from shale and
coal. Here persistent political pressure has been put
on parties in power, and not only the Commonwealth
Government but some State Governments have yielded
to the extent of playing with the question. Mr.
Stevens, one of the touring Premiers, “is to investi-
gate in Britain the extraction of oil from coal.” This
presumably means that he will visit the Imperial
Chemical Industries works at Billingham and learn as
much about it as a gentleman with office training can
be expected to learn.
Eighteen months ago a Commonwealth technical
committee reported that the figures dealing with
Billingham costs were “of little use,” and that
“it would be folly unbusinesslike to the point
of recklessness” —for the Commonwealth to find
the £10,000,000 which would be needed to start
the coal-oil business. On March 13 Mr. Lyons
was convinced that it would be necessary “to wait
for some time, probably a year,” to ascertain the
result of the Billingham work. On April 2he quoted
the Commonwealth fuel expert as reporting that petrol
produced by hydrogenation in Germany will probably
not exceed 100,000,000 gallons this year, and that
expansion to an annual production of 270,000,000
gallons, the full programme aimed at, might have to
be deferred. He added that petrol in Berlin is worth,
in Australian currency, 3s. 3d. a gallon, though coal
petrol enjoys tax-remission equal to Is. Bd. per gallon.
If these are facts, it is far from certain that fuel
oil and petrol can be produced from coal at a price
which the public could afford to pay, even with
abolition of the present taxes on petrol —customs duty
alone is 7d. per gallon on refined imports and excise
54-d. on petrol refined from imported crudes. Cer-
tainly Mr. Lyons has another string to his bow
Newnes. The Newnes plant and machinery cost
“considerably over a million,” and “can now be
secured for £34,500.” Protection “to the extent of
the customs and excise duties at present operating
will be granted to any concern willing to take it on
and extract from Newnes shale up to 10,000,000
gallons p.a., about one-twentieth of present Australian
consumption.
Nothing is said about power alcohol. Germany
uses about 80,000 tons p.a., and would use more if
it had the areas to grow the produce from which power
alcohol is made. Virtually, every European country
ekes out its petrol supplies by prescribing an admix-
ture of p.a. with mineral fuel. Queensland has fol-
lowed suit, so far as the Constitution allows. The
U.S.A. makes a quantity of p.a. equal to Australia’s
petrol consumption.
Alcohol has the advantages of putting more land
under cultivation, of having sources of production
which can never be exhausted, and of being distillable
in small-unit factories reasonably safe from raiding
bombers. Coal and shale distillation must be done in
huge plants close to the sea coast which well-planned
raids might blot out in ten minutes. It would take a
month of Sundays to destroy an alcohol industry spread
throughout Australia.
Again, alcohol distillation gives off by-pro-
ducts specially useful for defence purposes, such as
acetone and various essential oils. It should certainly
be included in any fuel programme. For the equiva-
lent of what is to be distributed among drillers, some
of whom may be merely liars with holes in the ground,
Australia could set up three commercial alcohol fac-
tories capable of turning out nearly as much fuel as
it is expected to get from Newnes —at least, that is
the estimate, adapted to local circumstances, of Dr.
Arnstein, the American authority. Rivett of the
C.S.I.R. is to go to Britain to discuss hydrogenation
with Imperial Chemical Industries. He should cer-
tainly be asked to go into the power-alcohol question
as well.
With expanding demand for road fuels and the
increasing urgency of making Australia’s supply self-
contained, no possible source of production should
be neglected. But there are limits to the supply of
public money available, and unfortunately holes in
the ground seem to have a hypnotic effect on Govern-
ments.
“SPLENDID WORK FOR VICTORIA!”
Mr. I. G. Boyle, a Westralian M.L.A., attended the
Country-party conference in Victoria, at which “the
various Governments” were ordered “to provide suffi-
cient currency for the reasonable needs of the people,”
a thing beyond the constitutional powers of six of
“the various Governments.” He returned to Westralia
full of admiration for “the remarkably successful”
conference and for the Dunstan Government, which
he pictured as “riding on a wave of State-wide
enthusiasm.”
The Victorian C.P. Government, Mr. Boyle
added, has “conquered Victoria.” This is not quite
consistent with cold facts, since there are only 20
C.P. members in a House of 65, and in the Allandale
by-election—the last contested by the three parties
represented in the Assembly-—the C.P. man was third
in a field of three; but Mr. Boyle’s enthusiasm is
invincible. The Government, he added, is “doing
splendid work for producers and for Victoria,” He
gave one example, and one only.
A Victorian farmer whose secured and unsecured
debts amounted to £17,000 has had his indebtedness
reduced to £ll,OOO.
This is presumably a result of the Farmers’ Debts
Adjustment Act, which, as the secretary of the Federal
C.P. puts it, “provides for the Commonwealth raising
£12,000,000 to assist in reducing farmers’ debts to man-
ageable proportions.” And no doubt the gentleman
who has had £6OOO wiped off his liabilities shared
last year in “the Commonwealth bounty and hard-
ships grant,” which, as the Federal C.P. secretary men-
tions, amounted to £4,066,000, and will get his whack
of the “£1,800,000 for 1935-36, voted notwithstanding
the considerably increased price of wheat over that
of recent years.”
The declared object of the bounties and hardships
grants and the debts-adjustment racket was to keep
worthy farmers on the land. In Mr. Boyle’s State it
does not seem to have been attained. A Westralian
Digger farmer writes to The Bulletin:
We have not had more than an inch of rain since
the middle of September. In our district half the land
is idle. Farmers are chucking it up wholesale, and many
are good men. There is a sale to-morrow and another
in three days. In one case the farmer rose from
the ranks and returned with the M.M. and the M.C.
What a cruel trick was played on a good many returned
men when they were settled on the land!
The general body of taxpayers have had to find
the bounties and hardships grants, and will be respon-
sible for the £12,000,000 “to assist in reducing farmers’
debts to manageable proportions.” Beyond all doubt
they would rather see their £12,000,000 devoted to
keeping solid triers on small farms and giving the
wherewithal for a new start to those whose position
is hopeless than dipped into for the relief of big
operators like the Victorian who contrived to borrow
£17,000. Six thousand pounds off one wheatgrower s
debts when every widow who opens a tearoom or a
hatshop has to shoulder the whole burden if she fails.
RAILWAY AND ROAD SERVICES.
In the latest year (1933-34) for which full figures
are available, Australia had 2145 miles of Common-
wealth Government railways, 24,986 miles of State
railways and 846 miles of privately-owned lines, used
for general passenger and goods traffic. The Com-
monwealth Government railways made an actual loss
of £487,900, and the State-owned ones reported an
actual loss of £2,740,000 ; but in Queensland, where
a “profit” of £170,400 was claimed, “£28,000,000” has
been “written” (not paid) “off capital account.”
Gross revenue of private railways was £561,500
and working expenses were £343,000; capital cost
was £5,068,900. The figures for Westralia’s Midland
Railway Co., which operates 277 miles in competi-
tion with a Government railway, built to settle the
company’s hash, were: Capital cost, £2,239,600 ; gross
revenue, £158,200 ; working expenses, £72,800. This
concern regularly pays London dividends and (what no
Australian railway department ever does) Australian
taxes without making a song about it.
For ten years to June 30, 1934, the admitted losses
on Government railways amounted to £52,869,400 ;
and during four of those years the “reduction of capital
account” applied in Queensland: for six years prior
to that bit of financial jugglery, losses on the Queens-
land Government railways amounted altogether to
£9,779,800. Also the N. S. Wales revenue figures
included £4,800,000 contributed from taxes. “Exclusive
of construction staff” in N. S. Wales, Government
railway employees at June 30, 1934, numbered 95,112.
When Government railways are criticised it is
the custom of their defenders to reply that private
lines are flimsy things, laid down and used only for
special purposes. None of those included in the total
given above comes within this category—they are
public lines, working both goods and passenger traffic.
Defenders of our Government railway systems likewise
maintain that they must, in the public interest, pro-
vide and run a substantial proportion of railway-
lines which do not pay, but that private lines are under
no such compulsion. In these days of improved road
haulage this is an unsound argument.
There is no justification for saddling the taxpayer
with the cost of operating non-paying lines. Far less
is there any warrant for building railways of neces-
sarily uncertain financial prospects, such as the Suther-
land-Cronulla and Sandy Hollow-Maryvale lengths,
which are on the Stevens Government’s list. Rather
the obvious need is for closing every line
chronically unable to show a profit and for
encouraging private' enterprise to act as a feeder
system to main lines, either over existing roads
or by utilising the reconditioned tracks. In
other words, to convert these non-paying lines from
a certain loss to a certain source of profit, with corre-
sponding lessening of the taxpayer’s load.
The protagonists of our railways speak as if
steam haulage over rails, operated by Government
employees, were the only kind of public land trans-
portation possible. Every other allegedly progressive
country in the world recognises in practice that a
Government cannot provide really economic or
efficient railway service, and that steam rail haulage
is becoming obsolete except for long routes and for
the heavier kinds of freight. Australian railway
authorities furnish proof of their own realisation of
this fact by the zeal with which they wage war on
“competitive” road transport. The commercial and
travelling public also realises it, and in at least two
States strong public movements are being organised
to prevent suppression of road transport by Govern-
ment railway departments.
The suppression attempt has already been carried
to extreme lengths for an allegedly free country. In
Queensland, for example, the Commissioner of Rail-
ways, in his capacity of chairman of the State Trans-
port Board, can summarily forbid any commercial
vehicle to operate. There is no appeal. If he allows
it to operate he may exact payment of fantastic “fees.”
Again there is no appeal. Unregistered operation is
punishable by punitive fines, seizure of the vehicle,
perhaps imprisonment. Still there is no appeal. The
railways allege that they can carry freight at 2d. per
ton-mile, as compared with 3d. per road transport.
With all these advantages they cannot make a success-
ful or satisfactory job of their business or give the
kind of service which the public wants.
The same sort of thing is happening, or will
happen shortly, in other Australian States. An ugly
spirit is developing in opposition to this bureaucracy
among country people who have come to depend on
efficient road service or to realise its advantages. This
spirit is resolving itself into a definite resolution that,
whether politicians and political unionism like it or
not, country residents are going to have the kind
of transport service they want.
There remains the factor of national defence.
Whether one supported “sanctions” or opposed them,
there is no getting away from the fact that motor-
lorries played a tremendous part in the swift conquest
of Abyssinia. Nor can it be denied that State trans-
port-strangulation policies are fraught with danger to
the Commonwealth since they may result in its being
unable to requisition in an emergency such fleets of
motor vehicles as the Italians mobilised in Abyssinia
and the French at Verdun.
M. TURLUTU.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Sanctions,” Haile Silassie and War.
A FEW days before Haile Silassie “reiterated ’ to the
“Times” correspondent that he would “fight to the
bitter end,” and then bolted back to his palace to
superintend his packing, the Italian Consul-General
called on Minister Gullett at Canberra to discuss
resumption of trade. In a statement issued that night
he said that when hostilities ceased his country would
deal with others “on three bases”:
(1) With those countries which have not enforced
“sanctions”; (2) with those which have
enforced “sanctions” but have not ceased to trade with
Italy; (3) with those which have enforced “sanctions.
That was on April 27. On April 24 the Minister of
External Affairs had made these assertions in “a state-
ment on the international situation”;
Economic and financial “sanctions” were imposed in
November by 52 nations... .All are loyally co-operating
in the enforcement... .There is no doubt that “sanc-
tions” have had a serious effect on the economic and
financial situation of Italy.
A perfect example of the folly (and, where the
fate of nations is concerned, the danger) of believing
what you wish to believe. The Lyons Government, it
is now evident, was misinformed on almost every phase
of the Italo-Abyssinian quarrel, and it passed on its
misinformation to the public, already deceived by the
vast masses that came over the cables.
May 1 saw the leader of the Abyssinian “nation”
skedaddle with all his gold. He left his palace to be
looted by his “Christian” warriors, and the foreigners
in his capital to save themselves from mobs of mur-
derous savages, for whom, if fools and liars had had
their way, the youth of the Empire would have been
sent to fight and die by the hundred thousand. Whole-
sale massacre was averted only by the heroic exer-
tions of the soldiers and staffs of the British and
French legations ; even so, white people (among them
a British Red Cross doctor) were killed and some were
“mutilated in the ghastly Abyssinian fashion.” When
the Italians arrived they were greeted as liberators.
On Thursday it was reported from London by
“the special representative” of Australian afternoon
papers that Mr. Bruce, Dr. Page and Attorney-General
Menzies had on the previous afternoon “informed the
British Government that Australia was anxious that
‘sanctions’ against Italy should be removed at the
earliest possible moment.” This was denied by the
Prime Minister in the House of Representatives ; but
on Friday he said that his Government had “no infor-
mation” about what its representatives in London had
“said or done in the matter” ; it had “not been in com-
munication with them” and “no instructions” had “been
given to them.” It will be remembered that he shuffled
in much the same way over the pledge of co-operation
he gave to the British Government in London; but
in the pass to which things have come shuffling will
no longer avail.
Acceptance of the accomplished fact and prompt
removal of “sanctions” are plainly necessary to Aus-
tralia and the Empire. Continuance of the boycott
can only mean prolonging a useless sacrifice of trade
and exacerbating a situation which has had explosive
possibilities all along, and the dangers of which have
been increased by the victory of the so-called Popular
Front in France, Within a few weeks France will
have a Socialist-Communist Government dominated
by the sinister Blum. Blum has already intimated that
he will support Britain against Italy if Britain will
support France and Russia against Germany; so if
the rulers of the Empire are not careful they will
have two major quarrels on their hands. In God’s
name, let them reject the Blums and Litvinoffs and
Lyttons, and withdraw at once from a situation which
admits of their countries being voted into war by
foreigners!
Canberra Rejects the Mike.
The Commonwealth Government replied with a
chilling negative to the suggestion of Baker,
M.H.R., that Parliamentary debates should be broad-
cast. This is of a piece with the Government’s refusal
to entertain the British proposal that air-mail postage
should be twopence. The Government has a
nineteenth-century mind.
Radio would enable the electors to learn the truth
about Parliament. The truth is that its business is
conducted in a slipshod and careless manner; that
hours are wasted in speeches made solely for record
in “Hansard” ; that the forms of the House are abused
in a hundred ways, and that obvious insincerities are
connived at for party advantage.
Frequent broadcasting of debates would correct
these evils. With the public listening, members would
have to be on their best behavior. Speeches of the
tedious, reiterative character would have to be elimi-
nated. Much of the personal abuse which disfigures
the debates would disappear, for members habitually
offensive would realise that they would be injuring
themselves with the public by objectionable behavior
on the floor of Parliament.
Newspapers necessarily give an imperfect impres-
sion of what goes on in Parliament. They can find
space only for news, and it has long ceased to be news
if one honorable member calls another names. The
microphone would be a reforming agency in Parlia-
mentary life. But many members do not want any
reform that would represent an “intrusion” and would
cramp their style.
The Hanging of Hickey.
After delays that added to the sentence of death the
punishment of mental torture, Edwin John Hickey
is to be hanged at Long Bay, Sydney, to-morrow
morning for the murder of Montague Henwood. The
crime was one of the most brutal in criminal record,
and Hickey’s personal defence, since retracted, in-
cluded a horrible charge against his victim.
The State Government’s position has not been
easy. Since capital punishment has never been abol-
ished in N. S. Wales, it is hard to see what other
decision it could have reached. Besides Hickey’s case
it had that of the ruthless gunman Jones to consider.
Jones escaped hanging on a doubtful legality: sen-
tence of death had not been “passed” on him, but
had been “recorded.”
One K.C. advising the Government read this as
holding, in effect, that the man had not been sen-
tenced to death and (as the Executive had no power
to pass the death sentence itself) could not legally
be hanged. Two other K.Cs. held, in effect, that the
man had been sentenced to death. If the one K.C. is
right it seems to mean that, though a jury finds a man
guilty and declines even to recommend mercy, a Judge,
by “recording” sentence, overrides the jury, and the
Executive, instead of having the privilege of reprieve,
has the onus of hanging.
Further, all K.Cs. agreed that no man against
whom sentence had been “recorded” had ever been
hanged. There is doubt in the whole matter, but the
Executive could hardly have done anything but give
Jones the benefit of that doubt.
There was no doubt in the Hickey case. It was
purely a matter of whether or not the prerogative of
the reprieve should be exercised. In this there were
very important matters to be considered. The only
thing that could have carried weight in Hickey’s in-
terest was his youth. But Dan Kelly and Hart and
“Billy the Kid” were youths, and there has been a
terrible record of crimes recently committed by youths
that cried out to be stopped, if at all possible. Then
Hickey’s crime was committed on a defenceless man
travelling in a train, and the Government, as the prin-
cipal carrier of similarly defenceless and unsuspecting
passengers, had to consider its responsibility in making
passengers’ lives at least safe from murderers. The
similar battering to death of two passengers in a
Queensland train could not have helped Hickey, but
it is not unlikely that Hickey’s example was in the
mind of the Queensland murderer.
“By the People, for the People/’
It is one of the axioms of democratic government
that the people should understand the laws ; but many
of the laws rushed through Australian Parliaments
at the rate of 400 or 500 a year are past understand-
ing. For example, the latest of many Common-
wealth Income Tax Assessment Bills runs to 120 quarto
pages and has hundreds of clauses. It is so big that
ihe Government has issued a huge “explanatory”
handbook which covers 224 pages.
The measure is, as usual, being debated in a
hurry. As for intelligibility, take Clause 106 (1): —
Where, in relation to any private company, there is
an undistributed amount, and any person (not being
a company, trustee or partnership) would, otherwise
than as a shareholder of the private company, have
received a part of that amount if there had been suc-
cessive distributions of the relative parts of that amount
to and by each of any companies, trustees or partner-
ships interposed between the private company and
that person, the Commissioner may also, in addition
to any other tax assessable under this Division, assess
the additional amount of tax, if any, which would
in that event have been payable by that person, and
the private company shall be liable to pay the tax so
assessed.
In the 224-page explanatory handbook the fore-
going jumble of words is unexplained. But the authors
of the bill sometimes did have a brainwave. For
instance, there is a clause which states brightly that
“a primary producer is a person engaged in primary
production.”
New Field for Missionary Effort.
The Bulletin is not reckoned a religious paper, but
it has its pious moments. When it considers recent
newspaper reports of Anglican bishops’ speeches it
thanks God that Australia has no established church.
This country gets heaps of unsolicited advice
from episcopal gentlemen, and has become resigned
to learning from Anglican bishops that “the capitalistic
system” is the last word in rottenness. This seems
ungrateful, for “the capitalistic system” has been
extremely good to bishops. On the other hand, in
Russia, which bishops praise so much, “40,000 priests
were arrested, banished or murdered ; and among the
murdered were 30 bishops”—the figures were pub-
lished at Geneva in August. It is on record also that
“nearly all the Orthodox churches and chapels have
been either destroyed or else closed to religious
worship.”
Political power, denied to bishops in Australia,
is possessed by them in England and exercised. The
Archbishops of Canterbury and York sit in the
House of Lords. When it was a question whether
Britain would go to war with Italy “on behalf of the
Abyssinian nation” or remain at peace with, while
rightly condemning the policy of, the ally who inter-
vened so usefully in 1915, the language of these arch-
bishops was anything but pacific.
As late as May 1 his Grace of Canterbury was
railing at “the impotence of Christian Europe while
professedly Christian people use every barbarity in
the name of civilisation.” He talked that way all
through the piece. The Archbishop of York said in.
a broadcast address that “if the effectiveness of the
Covenant demands the employment of armed forces
we should be prepared to use them” ; and again, in
New York: “The young men of the world may once
again have to be sacrificed to make certain for ever
the value of collective security.”
The Bishop of Liverpool wrote: “In this case a
Christian nation must be prepared to use moral and
military force against aggression.” The war spirit
now being thoroughly aroused, the Bishop of Durham
thundered at a Church Assembly in London that “the
foul and mean persecution of the Jewish race in
Germany” made him “blind with rage.”
Would that we could draw a sword and go and
do battle for God’s people!
The “Daily Express” report mentions that other holy
men cheered these sentiments to the echo,
Gaitered bishops beat a thunderous tattoo with their
feet, elderly clergymen shouted their applause and
curates stood on their feet and cried “Encore!”
Missionaries are still sent to heathen countries.
It might be a good thing to vary the procedure and
send some to bishops’ palaces.
Commonwealth Paternalism.
Astonishing figures showing the extent to which
Commonwealth assistance to the States has developed
have been tabled in the House of Reps, in response
to a question. Since the Lyons Government took office
in 1931 payments by the Commonwealth to the States
have amounted to £70,795,027, made up thus;
Contributions towards sinking fund, State debts .. £4,962,842
Contributions towards interest, State debts 30,339,648
Annual grants to States—
South Australia 4,550,000
Westralia 2,000,000
Tasmania 1,360,000
Grants for Federal-aid roads 8,407,850
Grants towards unemployment-relief 2,021,615
Assistance to primary industries (including
bounties) 14,929,303
Bounties to secondary industries 146,963
Special assistance from excess revenue 2,000,000
Special payments to Tas. during operation of flour
tax 76,806
Total £70,795,027
State Governments have become so accustomed
to receiving these handouts from the Commonwealth
that they now say they can’t do without them;
indeed, they repeatedly ask for more. The Com-
monwealth raises huge sums which are spent by other
Governments without control or supervision by the
taxing authority. In principle and practice, it is
utterly wrong.
Ballyhoo and Boloney.
Doubtless because they suffer most from it, the
Americans have the best words to describe wildly
flamboyant journalistic excess. Australia hasn’t the
words, but it has the need of them.
Exaggeration has become the sign-patent of
reporting. There is fierce competition in it. Any
reporter who lives by a gift for graphic description
will tell you that he would not hold his job a week
if he did not lay on the wood.
Australia has had plenty of example in the cables
on the late Abyssinian affair. That news was so crude
and fantastic that it might be thought a kindergarten
could read it only with laughter. Yet it went down.
The same kind of reporting is expended on the
mimic warfare called sport. At Sydney Cricket
Ground there was -a game of football which,
as a one-sided match and an uninspiring spectacle,
would take beating. It was so bad that, with 20
minutes of time still left before the end, the Hill
began to head bodily for the exits. Yet reporters
praised this dull performance in superlatives. One
had it that “the ball was flung about with that pre-
cision which is the acme of the League code” ; it
left the spectators “gasping.”
Heights attained were rendered more dazzling because
of their unexpectedness.
Another;
In the first half especially, the crowd rose in a
cheering mass as they swept their way through the
opposition in fast bursts of passing rarely excelled in
club football.
To another’s fine ears the crowd
was in one constant roar of excitement, in which there
was a tinge of amazement.
This is anything but unusual; in fact, it is notable
only because it is so characteristic. It is one with
the famous report of the poor Abyssinians filling
empty cartridge cases with match-heads.
The Egyptian Situation.
“G.D.” considers it;
Fuad I. could not have selected a more inauspicious
moment to die. His removal from the scene leaves Egypt
under the nominal control of a Woolwich cadet of 16. The
real power will be wielded by three Regents.
When the British protectorate was terminated in 1922
Egypt became a sovereign and independent State, subject
to four reserved points—(l) security of communications,
(2) defence against aggression, (3) protection of foreign inter-
ests and (4) the Sudan. Many attempts have been made since
1922 to negotiate a treaty about these matters. They have
all proved abortive, and recent events in foreign politics have
increased the difficulties.
The first attempt was made by Zaghloul Pasha in 1924.
Zaghloul had been living in exile in Gibraltar, but when
Egypt became free he returned as soon as possible to stir
up all the trouble he could. His idea was that Britain should
abandon all control in Egypt, and that Egypt should abandon
nothing. That was too much even for the Ramsay Mac-
Donald Government.
Zaghloul was leader of the Wafd, a thoroughly anti-
British organisation. He is dead, but the Wafd goes on. It
won the recent election hands down, and an all-Wafd
Cabinet is in office, with Nahas Pasha as Premier.
King Fuad left instructions that Adly Pasha, Nassim
Pasha and Fakhry Pasha should be regents. Adly is dead
and the others have been rejected by Parliament, though
Nassim has been named senator. During a previous illness
of King Fuad, the control of affairs passed into the hands of
a cliaue of palace officials, and these are likely to come
to the front again now that a 16-year-old boy wears the
crown.
It may be of some interest to recall that, if the draft treaty
of 1930 had come into effect, the military terms of it would
have allowed Britain only 8500 troops on Egyptian soil, and
these could not have left the canal zone without permission.
Egypt would also have became a fully-fledged member of the
League of Nations.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INDS"
“E.H.M.”: When an unassuming and
well-dressed young fellow engaged me in
general conversation on an excursion
train between Murwil-
lumbah and Sydney
early last month I
was favorably im-
pressed. We had
drinks together at
more than one refresh-
ment station, and dur-
ing the night he re-
lieved me several times
of the burden of nurs-
ing my six-year-old
son. At Hornsby,
where he got off, he
shook hands with both
of us cordially and
hoped that we should
meet again. Opening
my Sunday paper on
May 3 I asked my
youngster to identify
a photograph on the
front page. “Why,
dad d y, that’s the
gentleman who took me on his knee
in the train.” It was the man who
has been charged with the train killings
in Queensland, Herbert Kopit.
“Impair”: Reported that the casino at
Monte Carlo has dropped £56,000 on
this year’s working and is not paying the
usual dividend. Nations must be in a
bad way when they can find no time or
money for gambling. Various causes are
blamed. First, the Italian business and
the general tense situation among the
Powers; second, the death of King
George, which has kept thousands of
British habitues of “Charley’s Mount” at
home during the season when the prin-
cipality is generally thronged.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The bagpipes haVe
screeched their martial music in many
climes, from Clan Alpine’s crags to be-
leaguered Lucknow, but the quaintest
setting in which I ever heard them was
the fo’c’sle of a steamer about to leave
Thursday Island jetty the other morn-
ing, the audience being a polyglot crowd
of Europeans, Asiatics and Islanders. A
recruiter of labor, Sydney-bound and in
holiday mood, unearthed a passenger who
had a set of pipes. The ship moved out
to strains beloved of Albyn’s hills, with a
Celtic leaven in “The Wearin’ of the
Green” as a concession to the Irish origin
of the pipes.
;;c * * *
“Exdig” : The last census supplied some
information on the ages of ex-soldiers.
A summary shows that three years ago
there were still surviving 721 Diggers in
the seventies, and 1909 in the late sixties.
At the other end, one finds that 14,452 men
with service overseas were between the
ages of 30 and 34 in 1933, so that, even
if they did not enlist until the last year
of the war, they must have been under
19 then. During the last two war years
steps were taken to prevent lads under
18 going into the line ; but many slipped
through. The youngest I know of was
killed in France —at 16.
“Spare Corp.”: The absent-minded beg-
gars of the A.I.F. who failed to claim their
medals bright and early have shown little
inclination to relieve the Defence Depart-
ment of the load of 60,000-odd which
it still holds. Probably the British War
Medal and the Victory Medal, of which
there are 59,500 on hand, may be
esteemed too commonplace to worry
about; but 5200 Diggers have failed to
gather the prized Anzac Star, and there
are six M.Ms. still waiting for their
owners. Now and again a belated appli-
cant turns up. A man who had taken
his discharge in England, gone thence to
America and only returned to Australia
last year strode into the Defence Depart-
ment offices in Melbourne not long ago
with a “Hey, what about my medals?'’
And among the inquiries received by
letter last year was one from a 14-year-
old boy who wanted to know whether jus
grandfather, who had died shortly after
his return from the war, did not have
some medals due to him.
“Knock his block off, George!”
“Col. Bungstarter”; Exit finally on
Fraser Island (Q.) the Maheno, for
years cock of the trans-Tasman run and
pride of the Union Co.’s fleet. The
March cyclone finished all hope of sal-
vage, although before it there was a good
chance of getting her afloat. Her
Japanese owners stand to lose about
£17,000 on their deal. Except for a few
items, most of the old ship remains in
Australia. The saloon organ and grand
piano were sold to Brisbane people ; the
heavy swivel chairs from the first-class
dining-tables are mostly in business offices
north and south from Maryborough —
though one, at least, will function in a
game-fishing launch for operations
against swordfish. Incidentally, one of
the Customs officers who stood by during
the salvage inquiries has acquired a good
working knowledge of colloquial Japan-
ese which may stand him in good stead
for official advancement.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Had she a person-
ality, the four-masted barque Herzogin
Cecilie would have preferred leaving her
bones on the rocky South Devon coast
to the ignominious end of a coal hulk or
so much lumber in a shipbreaker’s yard.
She was built in 1901 as a training-ship
for the N.D.L.; 3242 tons gross measure-
ment and 37,000-odd square feet of
canvas. Never a flier —her best was 96
days from Port Lincoln (S.A.) to Fal-
mouth, compared with the Lightning’s 64
days from Port Phillip to Liverpool—she
handled well in foul weather, and was
a stout ship. Captured on a voyage to
South America, she lay for four war years
in Coquimbo. Afterwards she was
bought at Ostend for £4OOO by Captain
Gustav Eriksson, of Mariehamn, and has
made many voyages in the grain fleet.
She had her share of romance, too —Cap-
tain Sven Eriksson and his sea-minded
bride were on their honeymoon voyage
when the ship struck.
“Carrick, A. 8.”: The Herzogin Cecilie
was the staunchest, handiest and most
beautiful windjammer left afloat. Gustav
Eriksson snapped her up for about
£4500 and paid for her out of
the profits of a single voyage. She
has gone ashore on a coast that has been
the graveyard of innumerable ships;
from the Wolf, off Land’s End, to Port-
land there is hardly a rock or reef that
has not claimed a victim. Fogs plus
heavy inshore sets of the currents and
tides are chiefly to blame.
* * * *
“Templar”: Despite the protest of the
worthy Canon Hammond against the
supply of stimulants to a jury locked up
for the night (B. 6/5/’36) I can’t help
hoping that if ever I am tried for crime
the arbiters of my fate will not be
doomed to a drouthy night before they
make their decision. Also, I would like
them to have a first-class breakfast.
“Hungry and discontented jurymen”—to
quote the dictum of Mr. Perker on the
morning of the “Bardell v. Pickwick”
trial —“always find for the plaintiff.” And
the plaintiff in criminal cases —juries are
never locked up in civil ones —is of
course the Crown. Obviously a juryman
deprived of his favorite tipple for, say, 16
hours before the opening of the court
would be as likely to be discontented as
one who had breakfasted poorly.
) * *
“Ex-Cavalryman”: George V. may
not have looked imposing on horseback
(B. 6/5/’36), but, after all, he was
primarily a sailorman, and sailormen are
seldom skilled equestrians. But Edward
VII., who was really neither soldier nor
sailor, looked very much less impressive
upon a horse than did his son. One can
hardly imagine Queen Victoria on horse-
back, but that did happen in her young
days. In the 1840’s the young Queen re-
viewed her army from this point of
vantage, and took the salute in the regula-
tion way, by raising her right hand to her
hat or bonnet.
“Oran”: The comment of “Balaclava”
brings to mind a war-time happening in
our village. Alcoholic beverages had been
banished from the royal residences, and
loyalists the Empire over were being
urged to “Follow the King.” Our par-
son used the slogan all round the dis-
trict with great effect. One morning the
papers announced that H.M., on a visit
to France, had been thrown from his
horse. That afternoon the parson, pass-
ing the Blue Lion on his ancient steed,
had a similar mishap. The village repro-
bate was the first to lurch from the bar
to his rescue. He helped the parson
to rise, and, dusting him kindly, re-
marked with beery concern, “Now look
here, Mishter Brown, ishn’t thish foller-
in’ the King a bit too far?”
* * * ❖
“Oxmead”: The transporting of the
remains of the heroic Father Damien
from Molokai to Belgium, for intern-
ment at Louvain, naturally sets one
thinking of Robert Louis Stevenson’s
“Open Letter to the Rev. Dr. Hyde.” It is
a fine piece of writing, more reminiscent
than anything I have ever read in Eng-
lish of certain of Cicero’s orations. Did
the reverend doctor ever essay any answer
to it, I wonder ; and, if so, where can
it be found? Stevenson’s philippic, as
everyone knows, was written and pub-
lished in Sydney in the form of a few’
hundred paper-covered booklets. I won-
der, also, where one could happen on
one of those nowadays. Probably not
many of them went to England, where
the Open Letter was subsequently re-
printed in more imposing form. One of
these days somebody will light on an
original copy in a second-hand book-
shop or the lumber of a town or country
house. In the present craze for first
editions and for Stevensoniana generally,
it should be a worth-while find.
* * * *
“Jungor”; A query about the doings
of those bloodthirsty ruffians Jimmy and
Joe Governor (B. 6/5/’36) reminds me
of the enterprise of a weekly jour-
nal launched in Perth at the time when
Australia was ringing with the atrocities
of the two blacks. Things weren’t going
well, and a scoop, or anything that
would pass for one, was urgently desired.
“Pity we couldn’t
get a snap of those
Governors,” said the
proprietor to the
literary staff of one ;
“we could make a
rare front-page splash
with it.” The editor
said nothing, but the
light of high resolve
came , into his eye. He
repaired to the Cen-
tral police - station.
Had they any photos,
of blacktrackers they
could lend him?
After some trouble
one was found, but
only one. “I must
have another,” said
the visitor —“any sort
of abo. will do.”
Finally an accommo-
dating sergeant dug
up a very old photo,
of Tommy Windich,
the native who accom-
panied Bigjohn For-
rest on 'some of his
exploring trips, and
the journalist left with
profuse thanks. Of
course you guess the
sequel; the struggling
sheet got in ahead of
all its competitors
with lifelike pictures
of the two desperadoes who were terror-
ising N. S. Wales. After all, two Binghis
are very like any other two. It was the
police-sergeant who told me the story.
“Lower Tops’!”: Mention of a dis-
abled mining ’plane coming down at
Port Davey, on the West Coast of Tas-
mania, recalls that this is the Speck’s
least-used port. Discovered in 1815 by
Captain Kelley (the first Australian
master mariner) on his famous explora-
tion trip in a whaleboat, this fine harbor
was the resort of Australian and American
whaling ships. A grass-covered grave at
Bramble Cove and rusted ironwork on
the shore are about all that is left of
their activities. Cut off from the rest of
the island by an impenetrable barrier of
mountains, interspersed with marshy
button-grass plains, Port Davey is only
visited nowadays by an occasional fisher-
man after trumpeter. Driftwood, fish
and wild ducks alone abound. It is one
of the few places left where the Tas-
manian marsupial wolf may be found.
My mate was attacked by one on the
beach while chopping wood.
f. * *
“Prill”: There are lesser Kidmans out-
back who refrain from bad language (B.
6/5/’36). I recall an occasion when,
after the boss and I had worked our in-
sides out hand-drafting heavy crossbred
ewes in a brush yard and lifting them
over a six-wire fence, we discovered at
the end of the day —that the drafted
simply walked up the fence, through an
open gate, down the road and back into
the brush yard. He was a new boss to
me, but I waited for him to do verbal
justice to the situation. Yet all he said
was, “The jolly beggarin things! Even
my dog looked his amazement.
A BELATED DISCOVERY.
“'At the C. of E. convention, the Bishop of
Goulbum said the conventional idea of Heaven,
with heavily-bejewelled palaces inhabited by winged
angels, was a glorious piece of Oriental imagery.
Heaven and Hell were not places; we had them in
ourselves.”
The Hell that Milton sketched in poesy
polished,
The Sheol that the Bible tells about.
Has been by general consent abolished
(Alike by theologians devout
And learned Judges), overthrown, demolished,
Dismissed with costs, nonsuited, counted out.
In this enlightened age at any rate
Eternal punishment is out of date.
And what, one well may ask, of bliss eternal
’Mid glittering mansions somewhere in the
skies,
Life everlasting in abodes supernal.
With harps and crowns and wings for virtue’s
prize?
Must this, too, go the way of pangs infernal
In hissing heat that never fades or dies?
In short, are both these extra-mundane spheres
Dreams of imaginative Hebrew seers?
I may not hope to ever set an eye on
The pearly gates or climb the golden stair
In realms beyond Arcturus and Orion,
And hence I cannot say I greatly care
About the site of the Celestial Zion.
But if it really isn’t anywhere,
The New Jerusalem that fancy limns,
What will the churches do about their hymns?
Is Heaven above as patent a misnomer
As Hell below is recognised to be.
One neither high above the planets’ dome or
The other deep beneath the earth and sea?
Ah, well! There was a wise old bird named
Omar,
A cheerful pagan, who, it seems to me,
Knew all our most outspoken bishops know —
And phrased it better—centuries ago!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Valerin”: I never realised how re-
spectable Melbourne can be until I
lunched the other day at a Collins-street
restaurant. I was shown to a two-seater
table, and was on my last round when an
irreproachable-looking female parked
herself on the other pew. At once the
usheress rushed up and diverted her to
another seat. Being curious 1 asked why.
“Oh, we have to be so careful; if your
wife or a friend came in and found a
strange lady at your table you might
feel embarrassed!”
* * *
“Brix”: Queer accidents? A doctor
was called the other day to sew up a
nasty cut in a woman’s head. “I fell
down and hit a stone,” she told him.
Afterwards she grew confidential with
the family. “I simply couldn’t admit
that I had thrown a stone at a hen in
the garden and hit myself on the back
of the head!”
* * * *
“Tagus”: Sydney “Daily Telegraph,”
in an editorial, predicts that Haile
Silassie will make his home in England:
Ex-King Manoel of Portugal, ex-King
Alfonso of Spain and the ex-King of Siam
are a few royal figures who, when Haile
Silassie lands on England’s soil, will be
able to greet him with that fellow-feeling
which makes us wondrous kind.
Unfortunately the first-named will
hardly be able to grip the dethroned
Negus by the hand or slap him hearten-
ingly on the back. Ex-King Manoel died
nearly four years ago.
v *•' *!* •!•
“Sally”; Who says the backblocks
teacher’s life is a dull one? I arrived
this morning to find a sozzled swagman
on the schoolhouse doorstep, and it took
quite a lonf time to persuade him that
1 didn’t need his assistance in running
the school. Then an infuriated parent
arrived and said I’d insulted her hopeful
by requesting him to go outside the day
before and toy with a little soap and
water. Afternoon brought another par-
ent, who said a youth of seven had used
fearful language towards her six-year-old
daughter. After a lot of guarded in-
quiries it came out that the lad had told
the damsel to “Shut up! ” Then an in-
surance agent called and a juvenile swal-
lowed a pin and the school tank was re-
ported to have sprung a leak. When I
was going home, somebody, presumably
after rabbits, sent a bullet just beyond
the end of my nose. Dull ? I ask you!
* * * :i:
“G.S.”: “Old soldiers never die.”
Westraha sent to the war eight battalions
of infantry and a regiment of Light
Horse, together, of course, with field
artillery, engineers, etc. On Anzac Day
in Perth, 11th Battalion men headed the
list of marching Diggers with 341 (out
of 2800), and 16th Battalioners were next
with 325. Both were at The Landing (the
11th 970 and the 16th 959 strong), and
in almost everything after that. Of
course, they were renewed by reinstoush-
ments again and again.
**, * *
Carrick, A. 8.”: A little-known indus-
try of the windjammer days was the
coloring of meerschaum pipes. You
went to an old tobacconist in Hamburg
and received for 10 marks a meerschaum
pipe whose carved bowl was protected
by a padded case. On your next voyage
you smoked that pipe only in your bunk,
to avoid all risk, and after having been
out to the nitrate ports or to Australia
and back you took it to the tobacconist.
He removed the case with a knife,
and carefully examined the bowl for
flaws; if it was sound and nicely
colored, he would hand you from
30 to 50 marks, plus another pipe
to be colored. The finished article,
with a new stem fitted to it, was sold at
a fancy price to some young buck who
liked to swagger around with a beauti-
“But suppose your wife followed you?”
“She won t—got her false teeth in my pocket”
fully colored meerschaum in his jaw.
Some fool spoiled the industry by dis-
covering a way of imparting a convinc-
ing artificial color to meerschaums.
* * * *
“Querex”: The R.A.A.F. ’plane crash
has again called attention to the para-
mount importance of wireless apparatus
on any ’plane flying anywhere in Aus-
tralia. Such equipment need not be
comprehensive; a small battery-
operated short-wave transmitter is a
better safeguard than none. Ample
proof of this was given in April,
1930. Carrying a five-watt battery trans-
mitter, the Smith-Shiers Ryan mono-
plane, en route to England, was bushed
“Miss Jones is late. Where is she?”
“Oh, she dropped her costume and can't find it”
in the Kimberleys with a broken cam-
shaft. The 34-metre signals from the
ground were immediately received at
both Wyndham and Darwin, indicating
at least that the crew were down safely.
Within 48 hours they had been located
by a search party.
“Betul”: South Dunedin can’t claim a
record for having a fire in its own station
(B. 6/5/’36). That distinction was
earned a year ago by Creswick (Vic.).
When the alarm bell called the volun-
teers they were surprised to find that
the outbreak was in their own strong-
hold, the flames already having a good
hold on the wooden structure. The
assembled spectators were then treated
to the unique sight of the firemen break-
ing through the fire in order to obtain
appliances with which to fight it. Un-
fortunately the fire won easily.
$ * *
“J.R.D.”: It isn’t only once-prosper-
ing mining towns that degenerate into
deserted villages. For many years Moss-
giel (N.S.W.) was quite an important
place. Travellers on the coaches that
ran from Hay and Booligal out west to
Menindie, Broken Hill, Wilcannia and
the upper Darling were wont to wel-
come the sight of its glaring tin roofs
after a long day’s trip across the most
monotonous country imaginable. In
those piping times Mossgiel had three
pubs. But the car and the Broken Hill
railway, which ignored Mossgiel’s exist-
ence, gradually settled it. Now its last
remaining pub has departed, the cottage
hospital has just been closed and only a
ramshackle store, a post office, a couple
of cottages and a gaunt collection of
crumbling pise walls testify to the glory
that once was Mossgiel.
“Millbank”: The prejudice against the
hangman is illogical. After all, he is only
the last link in the chain which terminates
the life of a convicted murderer, the pre-
ceding ones including the Crown Prosecu-
tor, the jury who found the man guilty,
the Judge who passed sentence and
the sheriff who employs the execu-
tioner. If the sheriff couldn’t find a hang-
man the Law would require him to do
the job himself, and in such a case would
anyone think the worse of the sheriff?
And, after all, the hangman’s work, grim
as it may seem, has none of the sus-
tained cruelty in it that is part of the
warder’s job in every big prison. The
one takes life in a few minutes ; the other
may earn his bread for 30 or 40 years by
helping to take away from large numbers
of his fellows (possibly for ever, if they
are “lifers”) all that makes life worth
living—including “liberty and the pur-
suit of happiness.” Yet a gaoler ranks
as the most respectable of citizens ; no-
body points the finger of scorn at him ;
he may even be a churchwarden in his
spare time. Don’t any of these anti-
capital-punishment agitators ever think
of this aspect of the case?
* * * *
“Drysdale”: A first-aider’s reactions
to an artist’s shortcomings (B. 6/ 5/ ’36)
serve to remind us that, while modern
communities teach their male youth the
rudiments of military training, neither
sex is instructed in what is perhaps the
most valuable branch of knowledge—
first aid to the injured. At present many
rail and. tram men, police and miners
are qualified to render skilled assistance
in accident cases, relieving suffering and
saving life. Added to senior school cur-
ricula, about 40 hours’ training p.a.
would suffice for proficiency. One has
only to consider the work of surf life-
savers to realise the value of organised
effort of a similar nature.
* * * *
“Morita”: “D.B.K.’s” air-crash (B.
6/5/’36) recalls a remarkable sequence
of tragic crashes, all in the one Ypres
stunt. First a fighting ’plane circled
around us low down, blazing at the tail-
tip. There had been no air fight, and it
was too long a shot for ground machine-
guns from Fritz’s front line. We could
only gaze in horror at the flames roaring
along to the trapped pilot; there were
no emergency landing-grounds in that
churned-up bog. Then two observing
’planes, with all the sky to work in,
glided into each other side on. We saw
four bodies sorted out of their wreck-
age. From away up over our line an-
other ’plane started a long gradual dive
and ended in a crumpled heap in the
mud. The pilot, a very young English-
man, died in the air, shot in the head
from the ground, there being no Fritz
’plane anywhere near him. Yet, down
on the Somme at Yarra Bank, hundreds
of us each morning lined the parapets
with rifles blazing and Lewis-guns clat-
tering at a flaming-red German ’plane
that always flew to and fro above us
with absolute contempt.
* * *
“C.V.S.” : Brisbane and Sydney are not
alone in the benefits they are getting from
fast ’plane services (B. 6/5/’36). Holy-
man’s have rendered good work to the
Speck since the inauguration of their air-
ways. During the Christmas shipping
strike all first-class mail matter was
carried by their ’planes at ordinary rates.
* * >l= *
“Tuart”: It used to be the highest
ambition of the Australian girl to be-
come a prima donna, “like Melba.”
Times and standards have changed so
greatly that the achievement of Marjorie
Lawrence in storming the Metropolitan
Opera House at New York has been
ignored by her Australian sisters and
dismissed in small pars., while fur-
longs of print have been devoted
to the exploits of a lass who was
employed in Paris and London rag-
shops. Not even Melba at the height
of her fame was received with such
roars of newspaper applause as this
young gown-trotter has excited. The
soberest of dailies wrote that “all Aus-
tralia” had “followed her career,” and,
returning to Sydney, she was rushed with
contracts, not only by drapers, but by
moving-picture cos., broadcasting sta-
tions, newspaper proprietors and photo-
graphers. I listened to the lady’s
half-audible gabble over the air and
stood beside her at Randwick. Very
nice, no doubt, though the make-up was
rather overdone ; but I saw prettier
faces and figures and (it was a
windy day) dozens of superior legs.
Somehow I felt grateful that Melba
flourished when she did. Nellie Arm-
strong had elements of greatness, but she
was not exempt from feminine weak-
nesses. It would have broken her heart
to be eclipsed by this heroine of the
mannequin-parade press.
WAGGA AND WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
“Indignant protests reach Australia House, London,
whenever 8.8.0. announcers mispronounce Australian
place-names, such as Brisbane, Wagga and Wool—
loomooloo.” — Cable.
They’re tardy in learning that Brisbane
Has come to be currently held
A passable rhyme-word for Lisbon:
They bellow it out as it’s spelled.
They “bungle the accent that’s proper
On Bondi —Deniliquin, too —
And they come an habitual cropper
On Wagga and Woolloomooloo.
Our Canb’ra they turn to Canberrer;
They mangle Wiluna, one fears;
There’s many a palpable error
That grates on our countrymen’s ears.
The “G” in our Gippsland they soften;
Condobolin bothers the crew;
And they blunder deplorably often
At Wagga and Woolloomooloo.
It’s an ordeal that’s bitter and jarring,
One apt to make listeners squeal,
The mess that they make of Mundaring,
The muddle of Warracknabeal.
Murwillumbah rattles them badly,
I’ll wager a bob —wouldn’t you?
But the fences they fall at most sadly
Are Wagga and Woolloomooloo.
There is Bruce, there is Page—there are
dozens
Of other political birds
Who might wise up our Cockney-bred
cousins
On the havoc they play with our words.
Twould minimise ad infinitum
The job that announcers must do
When they’re called on to broadcast an item
From Wagga or Woolloomooloo.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


2 OforVS
10 /or 9*
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
)
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
<■<>
a
*
1
T HIS GENERATI
POLITICAL POINTS
The House of Reps, wasted the best
part of two days wrangling about a 40-
hour-week. Labor, of course, demands
it, and the other side is afraid either to
grant or refuse it. Meanwhile a re-
stricted 40-hour week has been intro-
duced beyond the Tasman by a party
without previous experience of office
which is trying to make a socialist para-
dise of Maoriland. It does not apply to
land industries or to the following:
Freezing works, dairy factories and
creameries, fellmongeries and felt works,
fish-curing or -preserving works, jam fac-
tories (during the small-fruit season) or
sausage-casing factories.
Which strongly suggests that the Gov-
ernment has very little faith in its own
nostrum.
With the return of population to the
goldfields, Westralian Labor gained
ground in two provinces, North-east and
South, at the Leg. Council elections ; but
any pleasure felt at this achievement van-
ished when the Trades Hall bosses con-
templated the result of the East Perth
Assembly by-election. Beaten at the gen-
eral election, and forcing another contest
because of T. J. Hughes’s financial diffi-
culties, Kenneally, the Minister of Em-
ployment, saw Hughes’s majority grow
from 199 to 1404. With 185 more names
on the roll, Hughes’s poll increased from
2433 to 3361 ; Kenneally’s slumped from
2234 to 1957. A dreadful doing.
Colebatch’s term as Westralian Agent-
General is up. The Collier Government
delayed making an appointment, obvi-
ously with the notion of offering it to
Kenneally if he were beaten again at East
Perth. It will be difficult to do that now.
With a bare majority on the floor of the
House, the Government will have to
watch its step.
Production of cement has increased in
Tasmania from 21,026 tons, valued at
£105,130, in 1924 to 61,298 tons, valued
at £214,542, in 1935. The Westralian co.
last year paid £62,000 in wages, £30,000
in railway charges, £45,000 for stores,
£24,000 for electric power and £19,000
for gypsum, coal and water. The Tas.
and W.A. concerns will suffer most if
Parliament ratifies the Canberra Govern-
ment’s “Yes, Mr. Baldwin,” attitude.
Parliament is considering another plan
for redistribution of the Westralian Fed-
eral electorates—-like the Victorian, long
overdue. If it goes through it will weaken
Curtin’s position in Fremantle, for subdi-
visions in which Labor votes prepon-
derate will be transferred to Perth. So,
unless Blackburn is restored to his posi-
tion in “the movement,” Curtin may go
after the Bourkc nomination after all.
In the French Chamber elected four
years ago, only 20 of the 615 Deputies
were Communists, and some of the 20
called themselves “Socialist-Commu-
nists.” Now the Reds number 81, and,
united with the Socialists and Radical
Socialists in a so-called Popular Front,
will have a great, perhaps dominant,
influence in the new Government of
the Left. Like th~ situation in Spain,
which seems rapidly approaching civil
war, it is an indirect result of England’s
taking “Bolshevism’s bloody hand.”
The so-called County Council set up
in Sydney to run city-and-suburban light-
ing-and-power is behaving just like
a State Government. It began by voting
itself salaries; then, having an anri-
socialist majority, it started selling appli-
ances in competition with taxpayers.
Next it ordered an £llOO car for the
chairman, a U.A.P. Assemblyman ; now,
having nothing in the locker, it is renew-
ing a £276,000 London loan, and is will-
ing to pay 4i p.c.—say, p.c. Austra-
lian. Also it is “sending the commercial
manager and his personal assistant abroad
for about six months at an estimated cost
of £l9OO” —to “investigate” something or
other which could be investigated by air-
mail and overseas telephone.
Most people marvel when members of
Parliament, who are seldom engaged in
Parliament for more than 13 or 14 three-
day weeks in a year, protest that they are
overworked. Light was shed on the
matter at the Sydney inquiry into charges
made against policemen engaged in the
hopeless and thankless task of putting
down s.p. betting. A demand was made
for the production of letters written to
three Assemblymen “in connection with
the remission of s.p. fines.” Marked,
J., said it would mean going through
20,000 letters.
Tas. Shields, M.L.C., standing for re-
election in Tasmania, proudly recalled
that he had been instrumental in defeat-
ing the attempt made in 1934 to extend
the bar-closing hour—the proposal was
tc substitute 10-to-10 for 6-to-6. He
moved that the bill should be read that
“Reports that Australian representatives in London had urged the abandonment of
‘sanctions’ were denied by Mr. Lyons Mr. Lyons said the Government had no information
as to what its representatives in London had done or said in the matter of ‘sanctions’....
Mr. Lyons said he was going to Tasmania to tour his electorate (Wilmot).”
“But, Mr. Lyons, won’t you explain your explanation about ‘sanctions’? ”
“Don’t bother a man when he’s concentrating on the nation’s business! Can’t
you see I’m off to Wilmot?”
day six months, and the motion was car-
ried by one vote. Shields was member for
Launceston, which has the most drastic
Sabbatarian regulations in Australia.
They and six o’clock closing don’t help
the tourist trade. Shields was beaten.
Percy Hunter, who established the
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau,
brought off his greatest coup as
a legpuller when he got a letter
on the Abyssinian business into
“S. M. Herald,” praising that paper
for its “singularly independent and
courageous view, which I have no doubt
was cabled to London,” and alleging that
its “wise and courageous leadership” was
“a source of considerable pride to all.”
“Granny” swallowed it, hook, line and
sinker. The old girl’s “leadership” con-
sisted in cheering on the Abyssinians and
the League when almost everybody was
doing it and deserting them in their direst
need.
H.M.A.S. Australia has been so long
in the Mediterranean that it seems now
to be taken for granted that she will
remain there. At all events, the social
columns of Australian dailies are begin-
ning to announce the impending depar-
ture of ladies to join their officer-hus-
bands at Alexandria.
Churchill, who, as First Lord of the
Admiralty for years, should be well in-
formed, has been disclosing the quality
of the air protection that the Australia,
the Sydney and the ships of the Royal
Navy would have to depend upon if at-
tacked in the Mediterranean or ordered
to attack.
Many aircraft were supplied without
bomb racks in position or bomb-release
gear. Common spare parts were not avail-
able. One squadron of new aircraft was
so inefficient that it had to remain ashore
waiting to be replaced. Flying boats at
Alexandria were described as “laughable”
compared with those possessed by Italy.
War in such circumstances would involve
frightful slaughter of our men, even if
it resulted in victory. Nevertheless fools
and liars are willing to let them run the
risk.
Sir Samuel Hoare, in December:
I have been terrified by the thought that
we might lead Abyssinia on to think that
the League could do more than it can do,
that in the end we should find a terrible
moment of disillusionment in which Abys-
sinia would be destroyed as an independent
State.
Hoare was sacrificed, and that meant
the fall of Laval, who was striving for
an enduring peace with Germany. Now
the “terrible moment” has arrived ; the
Abyssinian Empire is no more ; also the
German army is back in the Rhineland ;
France has signed another Russian
alliance and the Reds rule Paris. Still
all is not lost —Mr. Anthony Eden is
still in the Foreign Office.
Extracts from an advertisement which
“the Forestry Pulp and Paper Co. of Aus-
tralia (incorporated in Victoria)” has had
the gall to insert in an English magazine,
the “Geographical”:
Send for a booklet that simply and
convincingly tells how £35 subscribed over
2£ years makes a good return within 12
years and yields about £250. It is the
best and soundest way of creating capital
from income, and is the direct result of
over 50 years’ work by the Australian
Federal Government.
Perhaps the idea was that with Bruce
so busy at Geneva there was no one at
Australia House who would know the
facts about “the Australian Federal Gov-
ernment” and its poor little forestry
school.
Pleading for the murderer Hickey and
the gunman Jones, Grant, the Labor
M.L.C., said: “No one would be idiotic
enough to suggest that any member on
this side would advocate that these boys
should be allowed to go free.” But
Paddy Keller, who is president of Grant’s
party organisation, had the face to sug-
gest that “these boys should be sent to
prison farms.” And what the Paddy
Kellers of A.L.P. politics say goes when
“Labor” is in office.
It was supposed that Commonwealth
politics kept Martens, M.H.R., sufficiently
busy, but the member for Herbert chose
to come to Sydney and add his voice
and influence (such as it is) to the anti-
hanging agitation. Of course he couldn’t
help giving a political twist to it.
In Queensland, where a Labor Govern-
ment has abolished capital punishment and
endeavored to provide work for all at
shorter hours on equitable wages, there has
been a distinct decrease in crime.
So there has been in the rest of Aus-
tralia. But it has been reserved for the
State in which capital punishment has
been abolished to furnish the most blood-
thirsty crime of the decade, the case in
which two men sleeping in a railway car-
riage were battered to death and the con-
ductor left for dead. And the evidence
was being taken while Martens was
blithering.
On a day when the newspapers were
full of the reprieve in the Jones
case, the quashing of the N.S.W. basic
wage for women and James v. the Com-
monwealth, “S. M. Herald” added this
in its Parliamentary report;
Mr. Lang asked whether the Crown
Solicitor had been requested to recover
from a N.S.W. Judge Federal income tax
amounting to £550 17s. 6d.; State income
tax, £551 55.; and wages tax, £69 11s. sd.
The Minister (Martin) said he didn’t
know. Well, he ought to have known.
British publication has been arranged
for a book about Earle Page’s wander-
ings, to be called “The Travelling Trea-
surer.” If it sells well it will be fol-
lowed, no doubt, by “Lyons on the
Lope,” “Peripatetic Pearce,” “Perambu-
lating with ParkhiU” and “At Sea with
Stevens.”
H. S. Baker, who was Attorney-Gen-
eral in Lee’s last Ministry, is to succeed
that fed-up politician as leader of the
Tas. Nats. Neil Campbell, who was
once supposed to have designs on
Lyons’s seat, Wilmot, becomes Baker’s
deputy. A general election is due this
year, so Baker and Campbell will have
their work cut out.
From Molongloside:
Internal troubles similar to those which
hastened the fall of the Bruce-Page Ministry
are developing in the U.A.P. room. The party
is at sixes and sevens on important questions.
The cement controversy has caused a serious
schism, members for semi-industrial electorates
saying it would be political suicide for them
to face the next election supporting the Gov-
ernment’s interpretation of the Ottawa agree-
ment. Tlien Stewart and other N.S.W. mem-
bers want national insurance put on the plat-
form as a fighting plank. Stewart says the
Government has got into a groove; others
aver that low-tariffists in the C.P. are domi-
nating fiscal policy. The fact of the matter is
that the Ministry has very weak elements and
needs leadership not so “peculiarly amenable”
to Downing-street.


IHEY APPEAL to THE UsjioM.
// I "
Remember the ukion rules ,
&LO&GER M c Gis4TV
£>c/^e>s.
Tisef? Bashems sparring partners DOWN TOOLS.
SPARRIWG, SUITS ARE PROVIDED,
fl "
GO SLOW ,
The. President cmlsd a, stop-work meetimc; t
UNDER UNION RULES.
“Attempts are being made to organise boxers and trainers in trade-unions.”


Unleash All the Power af
THE NEW
car
your
o
7i
S
z
Pur
MJnTfW
j/rdr mm m mm mm \
mmmm
3n ■* i
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Royal College of Veterinai'y
Surgeons this year awarded fellowships
to its own president, to Charnock Brad-
ley, principal of the Royal Dick College
(England), to the head of the Dublin
Veterinary School and to Professor J.
Douglas Stewart, Dean of the Sydney
Veterinary Faculty. Stewart is the last
man who would be picked at a casual
glance as an animal doctor—he looks like
a banking satrap or a prosperous com-
mercial lawyer. He has done much
to raise the status of animal medi-
cine, and has turned out a succes-
sion of graduates as highly quali-
fied in their line as the average medical
graduate, and instilled with the same sort
of professional pride. Several of the
most brilliant of the C.S.I.R. men
were trained under his hand. He
was born on the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.),
became an accountant before he went
to Edinburgh to study veterinary science,
and was N.S.W. Chief Inspector of Stock
before becoming a professor.
At only 46, A. N. Brierly, of the
accountancy firm of Kent, Brierly and
Sully, died at Manly (N.S.W.) last week.
He was one of the sparse pre-war band
of students who took the B.Ec. degree at
Sydney University ; he then joined the
firm in which he became a partner in 1911,
and enlisted in 1914. A lot of pioneer
Diggers will remember him as paymaster
at Liverpool camp before he left with
the 13th Battalion. He was wounded
on Gallipoli and invalided, but returned
to his battalion in 1917 and served till
the Armistice. He was a director of the
N.S.W. Imperial Service Club and of the
Australian Golf Club.
Louis Monod first appeared on the
public horizon as a quiet, courteous
youngster hovering in the background at
Melbourne Royal Show meetings and
doing all the jobs which nobody else felt
MONOD, of Melbourne R.A.S.
like doing. Then he came into full leaf
as the experienced secretary of the Show
and of the many breed societies linked
with it. Behind his outward unobtrusive-
ness there is a shrewd organising brain.
1 he late C. W. Peterson’s acting suc-
cessor as War Service Homes Commis-
sioner is H. H. Richardson, lately N.S.W.
deputy-commissioner. He joined the
Commission in 1920 after returning from
active service.
Sydney Technical College gets a bril-
liant graduate in mechanical engineering
as its new head —H. J. Swain, who gradu-
ated with first-class honors at Sydney Uni.
and won an 1851 travelling scholarship
which enabled him to take a research
degree at Cambridge based on internal-
combustion engine studies. He has been
lecturer in mechanical engineering at the
college and on internal-combustion
engines at Sydney University since before
the war.
C. J. Melrose was unlucky that he was
not born a few years earlier. Had he
reached his majority in 1928 instead of
in 1934, he would probably have been
acclaimed the world’s greatest flier of
light ’planes—he is probably that to-day.
His record began in August, 1934, when,
with a few flying hours to his credit, he
circumnavigated Australia (8000 miles) in
5f days. September saw him on his way
to England in his
tiny Puss Moth. He
cut 15 hours off
Mollison’s record —
and Mollison was
an experienced mail
pilot and the first
man to fly the Atlan-
tic from England.
In October Melrose
appeared at the
starting post of the
Melbourne centen-
ary air race, the
only solo competi-
tor, and, with every
psychological factor
against him, reached
Darwin in 94 hours’
flying, a grand per-
formance. Since
then he has lived
mostly in the air
between Adelaide
and London, which
he left on April 9
to begin the Adel-
aide centenary flight,
on the Australian
Australia’s Flying MELROSE.
section of which he is now engaged. The
lad has never been lost, had a serious
mishap or inspired a word of self-adver-
tisement.
Outside the Pope and the Archbishop
of Canterbury, the head of the Aus-
tralian Anglican Church, H. F. Le Fanu,
has about the biggest primacy in the
world to look after. The archbishop has
made the journey from Perth, his head-
quarters, to Sydney for a meeting. He
is a witty, businesslike Irishman, with a
special flair for administration and
finance.
The veteran Frank Richardson, who
had his left leg amputated above the
knee in Melbourne recently (septic
poisoning), is probably Australia’s only
negro-blooded councillor, though there
used to be another in Mt. Morgan (Q,).
A Labor councillor at Oakleigh, Frank is
a foundation member of the A.W.U., and
has been one of its organisers for 34
years. He joined up as a shearer 50
years ago. His parents emigrated from
Tennessee, and Frank was born at
Moonah (Vic.). At Oakleigh he has been
president of the local progress associa-
tion, school committee, unemployed relief
committee and other bodies. He is a
good speaker.
On May 7, 1915, the ceremony of
opening the N.S.W. Conservatorium of
Music was performed by the Governor,
along with the' then Minister for Educa-
tion, Arthur Griffith. On May 7, 1936,
the Stevens Government gave a conversa-
zione “to celebrate the twenty-first anni-
versary.” Except Campbell Carmichael,
none of the speakers on its list had had
anything to do with the initiation of the
institution. The man who had launched
the Conservatorium and nursed it through
the first years of its existence was omitted.
The present Minister sent Griffith a card
of invitation “to be present at the func-
tion.” He declined it,
A. G. Huie, the Freetrader and Single
Tax enthusiast, who still carries on the
league of which he has been secretary
for nearly four decades, in spite of every
discouragement, has lost one of his best
friends with the death of Walter Finch.
Finch once tackled W. M. Hughes when
he was a Labor man in his West Sydney
stronghold. Fie was the first president
of the Nationalist party’s speaking team,
and with his passing Archdale Parkhill
is the only survivor of the founders. He
had to accept the U.A.P. as the only
existing counterblast to the Labor party ;
but Henry Georgism was his real
enthusiasm.
J. V. Fairbairn, now on his way to
England by air, can claim to be the first
regular civil-pilot-politician in Australia,
though not the first
to use the air regu-
larly for political
purposes. Theo-
dore was- the
pionee r —in the
Queensland election
campaign of 1920.
Earle Page also was
an early patron of
Qantas. But Fair-
bairn owns his own
’plane, and in inter-
vals between repre-
senting S. M. Bruce's
old electorate of
Flinders (Vic.), look-
ing after his pastoral
and business interests
and playing half a
dozen strenuous
games — including
polo, tennis, squash
rackets and golf—
he flies his own
machine. There are,
of course, others in
Parliament with fly-
ing licenses, the
doyen being Tom White, the Customs
Minister, one of the early birds of the
Mespot campaign.
A great-grandson of “Monitor” Hall
(who founded in 1826 the Sydney paper
of that name, helped to found the Bank
of N.S.W., fought for constitutional free-
dom with Wentworth, and became the
Sydney coroner) was H. W. H. Hall, an
Adelaide man just dead. All his career
was in the Bank of N.S.W., at Broken
Hill and various S.A. branches ; at the
end he was manager at Goroke (Vic.).
The new president of the M.C.C., Lord
Somers, if not an Australian at least
knows us, for he was Victorian Gover-
nor from 1926-31 and acting G.-G. dur-
ing the interregnum before Isaac Isaacs’s
appointment. He played cricket for Wor-
cestershire in his younger days, and while
in Australia rarely missed a Test match.
He still has one Australian connection—
he is a London director of the National
Mutual.
The Union Bank Board has appointed
the very able A. W. McNicol as g.m.
during his fortieth year in its employ.
McNicol had six years with the City of
Melbourne Bank before he joined the
Union. All States know him well,
for after being a sub-inspector in W.A.
and Maoriland he was auditor and reliev-
ing manager for 10 years, then succes-
sively inspector for Victoria, S.A., Tas-
mania, N.S.W. and Queensland.
The fairy-godmother who sponsored
Keith Barry gave him a variety of abili-
ties. He has practised medicine, and
KEITH BARRY, medico and musician.
his writings have been seen in most
Australian newspapers. But music is
his favorite child, and his last few
years have been given over largely
to the study of broadcasting technique.
Recently he visited Europe, saw most of
the big studios, gave a number of
broadcast talks and on his return became
an adviser on music to the A.B.C.
David O. Selznick’s latest acquisition,
Alan Marshall, the subject of a Holly-
wood publicity campaign, is the son of
two Australian old stagers, Leonard
Willey and Irby Marshall, who settled in
New York some years ago. Both were
featured players in Bland Holt thrillers.
The mother was associated with George
Arliss before the latter went into cellu-
loid.
J. J. Whyte, appointed Chief of Adel-
aide Fire Brigade, is a Scotsman of 50
from Melbourne, with an adventurous
career. He went to Westralia as a mining
prospector at 22, but with two years’
service on the Indian frontier with the
Black Watch already behind him. Since
1912 he has been fire-fighting, with a
war interval —Badly wounded at Loos, he
had a year in hospital at Leeds, and mar-
ried his nurse. His progress in Vic. since
has been steadily upward, including
charge of the rescue operations in 1924
at Wonthaggi, and latterly the training
of the gymnasium team at headquarters.
“El V.” on a possibility;
Robert Horne, who is tipped in some
quarters as a possible successor as British P.M.
to Stanley Baldwin, has been out of the lime-
light since the days of Lloyd George, but
behind the scenes he has still been a power
in British politics. He is a type which only
Scotland can produce—a son of a small parish
manse who scratched hard to find his way
to Watson’s College and Glasgow University
and then blossomed into a paragon of versa-
tility. Horne is one of the ablest and richest
commercial K.Cs. in England. His financial
and legal ability has put him on some of the
world’s blue-ribbon boards —those of the Suez
Canal Co., P. and 0., G.W.R., Lloyd’s Bank
and Zinc Corporation. Yet at the university
he was distinguished as one of the finest
scholars in philosophy the Scottish universities
had seen, and after carrying off every honor
which Glasgow had to offer in that field he
became an examiner at Aberdeen, of which he
was afterwards Lord Rector. Early in the war
he was handed a commission in the Royal
Engineers and embarked on a number of big
organising jobs in transport and for the
Admiralty; then he graduated to the Cabinet—
he is a s staunch Conservative —as M ; ni* f °r U
Labor, “President of the Board of Trade and
Chancellor of the Exchequer. He is a snrewu.
aquiline, clean-shaven bachelor whose Scotch-
ness is not over-apparent in his speech, and
when he came to Australia about eight years
ago he probably saw more interviewers and
said less to them than any other visitor in
history. He is 65.


Jick
of \\\ e ®°ck
TIME FORA
because
Capstans are
made of 100%
pure Virginia To-
bacco-Capstans'
own blend.
10-6 d. : 20-V-
Also Flat 50's, Flat 100's and
Round Airtight 50's.
v
/,
&f 4
■ 'Usj
<s&
2975-4-6


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J, Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary, Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, (>/- iiii<l 8/- per day; Breakfast, Xable-d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.15 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by T’hone, M4OOl.
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 167-
Extra Quality Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 : with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 21/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for |in.. Jin. and |in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR''
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes or ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes o£ alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices I»ol!i
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-13 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Feb., 1927..28,316 124 p.c. = 15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug., 1927.-28,378 124 „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671 .. 179,457
Feb., 1928. .28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500
Aug., 1928.. 26,918 124 „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8665 .. 196,737
Feb., 1929..28,503 124 p.c. = 15, *SO 907 dQU
Staff fund, £2OOO .. . . j JU
July, 1929. ,24,071 224 p.c. = 28,350
Jan., 1930..29,016 15 ~ „ 18,900 I 011< , 010 „,, 7
Staff fund, £IOOO .. .. j 9,110 L\L,i-I
July, 1930.. 22,285 124 p.c. = 15,750 6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931. .21,437 124 „ ~ 15,750 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 .. 226,635
July, 1931..16,468 9 p.c. = 11,340 5,128 231,763.
Jan., 1932..19,491 9 „ ~ 11,340 8,151 239,914
July, 1932. .18,490 10 ~ ~12,600 5,890 245,804
Jan., 1933..20,873 10 ~ ~ 12,600 8,273 254,077
July. 1933..19,281 10 „ ~ 12,600 6,681 260,758
stiff-?S“lwoo 10,750 } 7 - 6,6 2CS ’ 33i
•”" y - s- -sr sir 15 ' 760 !
Reserves capitalised, £63,000 . . 213,814
Jan., 1935.. 26,235 124 p.c. = 19,688 6,547 220,361
July. 1935..28,854 124 „ „ 19,688 9,166 229,527
Jan,, 1936..29,267 124 „ „ 19,688 9,579 239,106
There is nothing to suggest that the
position is any less attractive than it
looks. Indeed, now that the board is
finding employment for more of the co.’s
big pile of surplus funds in subsidiary or
associated businesses, earnings show an
encouraging expansion, and shareholders’
prospects have gained a little more lustre.
For the 234 years to the end of January,
1931, divs. averaged 14.4 p.c., sweetened
with £102,000 of bonus scrip, scattered
during the half-dozen years to the end
of 1919. Slump brought the rate down
to 9 p.c., but 124 p.c. has been paid with
comfort for the last 24 years, and an-
other £63,000 of reserves, one for four,
was capitalised at the end of 1934, mak-
ing 124 p.c. worth 15.6 p.c. on capital as
it stood before the gift.
The market discounts the future by
paying 735. 6d. for the pound shares as
against 695. a year ago. At the higher
figure the return is 3.6 p.c. on a 124 p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for
a shade over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 15 p.c. distribution, or on a one-for-
two gift issue and a 10 p.c. div. Such a
gift would take £157,500 of reserves and
make paid capital £472,500, on which
10 p.c. would call for £10,871 less than
was netted last year. The £58,121 (up
£6656) of profit claimed was 18.4 p.c. on
capital as it now stands.
The co., which runs a chain of drug
stores, is in an unusually strong position.
Cautious management, the manufacture
of much of its own requirements and the
hoarding of surplus earnings and other
moneys, chiefly from the sale of freeholds
(many of them picked up cheap early in
the century and sold before the boom
burst), have combined to set it there. The
hoardings were invested largely in Gov-
ernment securities, as the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:
Jan.,’3o. Jan.,’33. Jan.,’3s. Jan.,’36.
Paid capital. . £252,000 £252,000 £315,000 £315,000
Liabilities .. 50,253 57,810 72,797 80,996
Premises, stock,
plant, ' etc. 181,157 134,590 124,618 129,664
Book debts . . 166,741 149,985 88,615 87,140
Public securities 175,170 271,112 258,085 278,425
Cash, etc. .. 20,782 17,585 51,064 17,180
Shares in
other cos... 3,630 17,216 121,465 158,380
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts £20,340 was added to
Government securities, raising the item to
£278,425, equal to 17s. Bd. per share.
Shares in other cos., including the two
subsidiaries—Soul-Pattinson (Newcastle),
Ltd., and Soul-Pattinson (Laboratories),
Ltd.—increased by £36,915, and £5046
was added to premises, plant, stocks,
etc. To do all this cash was drawn upon
for £34,884 and £8199 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
what the etcetera is the published
accounts don’t disclose.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
t- Dividends— N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan,, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 36,014 10,100 12j p.c.=10,648 15,260 51,178
1927.. 7,674 10,100 10 „ „ 8,518
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976.. 31,258
Loss. 74 p.c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Deficit-
etc., £IB,OOO 18,000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written off capital, £63,888 .. ..
Profit. Reserves.
1930.. 21,087 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
Loss.
1931.. 592 2,525 Nil
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO .. 2,395
Deficit.
1932.. 9,890 Nil Nil
1933.. 9,829 Nil Nil
Profit.
1934.. 10,357 Nil Nil
1935.. 19,853 11,110 5 p.c. = 1,065 7,678'
12 p.c.
1936.. 21,179 12,120 10 „ „ 2,129 6,930 7,641
This co. and its two subsidiaries —Over-
land Sydney, Ltd., and Overland, Ltd
distribute the products of the Diamond
T Motor Cos. (U.S.A.) in Queensland
and those of Willys-Overland (U.S.A.),
Graham-Paige (U.S.A.) and the Singer
Cos. (Eng.) in both N. S. Wales and
Queensland. There is £122,296 of capital
to feed in 101,000 £1 prefs. and 106,480
ords. of 4s. each. The preponderance
of pref. capital makes the pref. rights
largely nominal. Because of this and
other things, and to give the ords. a
chance to get in the picture again—they
went without for seven years to the end
of January, 1934, and have had 16s.
lopped off each pound share since 1921
—the prefs. agreed to a reconstruction of
the co. a year or so ago. Capital re-
mained intact; but the pref. div. was
lifted to its original contract rate of 10
p.c. cumulative. Any profits distributed
after that are to be divided in approxi-
mately equal amounts among prefs. and
ords. until arrears of pref. divs.
are wiped out.
The brisk recovery of earnings over
the last three years reflects the revival
in the motor trade. During the 12
months covered by the latest accounts,
gioss earnings (£49,335) sprang £6468.
Exes. (£28,156) took £5142 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result £1326 better
at £21,179, or enough to give the prefs.
15 p.c. and the ords. approximately 26
p.c. Actually the prefs. received 12 p.c.
(10 p.c. plus 2 p.c. on account of arrears)
and the ords. 10 p.c. ; the other £6930 re-
mained in the business, making reserves
£7641. Arrears of pref. divs. are now
£44,693, or Bs. lOd. per share.
Sales have been well maintained since
the close of accounts, and additions are
being made to the Brisbane premises.
But the market, mindful of the history
of this and other motor-agency concerns,
sums up the risks by pricing the prefs.
at 275., at which figure the return is
8.8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. Owing
to the smallness of their capital, the
ords. have a speculative interest at
7s. Id. The return at this figure is
5.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover (book value) is 255.
Bd. prefs. and ss. 4d. ords.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell;
1928. 1932. 1935. 1930.
Capital . . £186,182 £122,296 £122,296 £122,296
Sundry creditors 121,230 5,539 207 1,649
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 82,062 21,834 20,293 20,059
Plant, etc. .. 12,181) a<7n f 1,432 1,521
Stocks .. 1,067 j 1 370
Book debts .. 195,828 73,106 62,730 74,087
Shares in
subsidiaries, etc. 39,522 23,529 45,394 44,535
The year’s growth of £11,357 in debtors’
balances reflects brisker trading. Free-
hold is not worth its book value. The
accounts of the subsidiaries, in which
the parent has £44,535 invested, are not
broadcast.
lllawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926 . . 6,542 7 p.c. = 7,000
1927 .. 8,509 8 „ „ 8,000 509 2,072
1928 .. 8,626 8 ~ „ 8,000 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500 . . • . 15,198
1929 . . 23.561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 .. 18,875 9 „ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 . . 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 .. 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 . . 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 . . 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44,594
1935 . . 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 .. 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
It’s a snug little concern whose ships
have been poking in and out the ports
on the N. S. Wales South Coast for the
last 86 years. Apart from competition
from road transport, the co. now enjoys
a monopoly of the carrying business be-
tween Nowra, where the railway ends,
and the Vic. border and Sydney. At the
end of March Consols and cash totalled
£111,945 (up £11,347). Including an un-
specified provision for taxation, the
amount coming to sundry creditors was
£11,889 (up £1371). The whole of the
£IOO,OOO of share capital (it includes
£25,000 of bonus scrip, scattered during
reconstruction in 1920), and more be-
sides, were thus invested outside the busi-
ness. So the ships and other property,
which are conservatively valued in the
books, haven’t got to turn in much in the
way of profit to enable an 8 p.c. div. to
be paid.
During the last term, another good
season enabled farmers to fill the co.’s
ships with produce, and the backloading
of stores helped to swell earnings. The
board figured net earnings at £8346, or
£134 less than for the previous year.
That was after dropping £3401 from
somewhere into reserves and reducing
the book value of fixed assets by £4BOO
net. Including the unexplained addition
to reserves, the net result was 11.7 p.c.
on capital as against 11.9, 8.2, 8,8, 10
and 18.8 p.c. back to 1930. The div.
was kept at 8 p.c.
At 38s. the pound shares return 4.6
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
295. 9d. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1920. 1928. 1931. 1935. 1936.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 75,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Liabilities., 11,505 11,282 9,815 10,518 11,889
S’hip pro-
perty . . 49,500 60,844 54,600 43,630 38,630
Other pro-
perty .. 1,717 2,807 2,895 2,570 2,770
Plant, stores,
etc. .. 3,362 2,645 2,078 1,469 1,711
Book debts 14,078 15,936 6,652 11,324 9,653
Consols and
cash . . 32,062 48,268 89,323 100,598 111,945
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£109,709 = 21s. lid.
per share) was £8305.
Country Producers’ Selling Cos. (Sydney)
, Bonus To
to Con- Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividend. signors, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 16,387 10 p.c. = 6,823 7,864 959 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ „ 7,500 10,578 3660 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 „ „ 7,500 11,251 3653 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 „ „ 9,981 10,548 3617 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ „ 7,000 Nil 489 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 „ „ 7,000 1,233 2365 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 ~ ~ 5,000 1,056 1710 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 ~ ~ 5,000 2,300 760 49,977
1934.. 16,611 6 „ „ 6,000 4,583 6028 56,005
1935.. 6,772 5 „ ~. 5,000 2,731
1936.. 19,635 10 „ ~ 10,000 5,341 3294 59,340
The co. started the term with 15,863
bales of wool in the store and finished
with 2267 there. The number of bales
received during the year was 73,671, up
1210, despite a smaller clip ; so an extra
29,167 bales, making 87,267 bales in all,
were sold. The average Australian price
for the 10 months to the end of April
was £l7 16s. 3d. as against £l2 Bs. 4d.
for the corresponding period of the pre-
vious season. So, although 65,014 fewer
sheep and 1273 fewer cattle were put
under the hammer, there was a spring
of £27,396 in the year’s gross earnings.
Wool „ Gr ? s ;L
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earning
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415
1930 . . 88,707 392,371 14,632 In’, oo
1931 . . 87,232 389,065 14,286 JO.iaf
1932 .. 85,703 391,183 15,466
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 ,820
1934 . . 82,541 340,801 10,938
1935 . . 58,100 341,480 13,862 65,9-1
1936 .. 87,267 270,466 12,589 93,31/
Including £4OOO set aside for the tax-
gatherer (no provision was made in
the previous term), exes. (£73,682)
made off with £14,533 of the increase.
The net result was thus £12,863 better at
£19,635, of which consignors, who are
mostly shareholders, were handed £5341,
being a refund of the commissions on
wool, livestock and produce. In the pre-
vious term 20 p.c. of the wool and 10
p.c. of the livestock commissions were
rebated. Allowing for these rebates,
enough remained to show 14.2 p.c. on
the £IOO,OOO of share capital as against
4, 12.1, 5.7, 6.7, 9.5, 7.4, 13.6 and 14.8 p.c.
back to 1928, when wool averaged over
£25 per bale. The div. was lifted from
5 p.c. to 7 p.c. and a 3 p.c. bonus was
added, making 10 p.c. for the year.
As for the coming clip, the immediate
outlook favors more and heavier bales ;
still, the co. may put fewer under the
hammer, owing to the small carry-over.
The statistical position of the staple
favors maintenance of satisfactory prices,
which will also be governed partly by
international developments. Repetition
of a 10 p.c. distribution is, therefore, by
no means certain.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1927. 1933. 1935. 1930.
Paid capital.. £75,124 £100,124 £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Mortgages . . 42,974 - *
Sundry creditors 63,506 103,283 94,932 58,459
Freeholds . . 93,884 146,523 140,523 140,523
Plant, shares in
other cos., etc. 10,150 12,372 13,743 5,366
Debtors & cash 125,704 102,488 94,712 79,909
When the books closed, debtors and
cash exceeded outside liabilities by
£21,450, an improvement of £21,670
over the twelvemonth.
The pound shares (paid to 10s.),
covered by 15s. J Id. in net tangibles, are
not listed.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends.- Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit, 74 p.c. Ordinary. sen es. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 23,686 6000 74 p.c. = 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 74 „ „ 7500 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up, £25,000 . . . . 17,047
1928.. 22.352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ „ 6000
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil
1932.. 7,913 Nil Nil
Deficit.
Written off investments, £2625 .. 1.497
1933.. 17,875 Nil Nil
Insurance reserve ( £5000) taken in .. 14,372
1934.. 7,353 Nil Nil
1935.. 1,573 Nil Nil
Profit.
1936.. 8,335 Nil Nil 8,335 14,963
■"Half-year’s div.
This drapery offshoot of Marcus Clark
and Cos. has a paid capital of £200,000,
one-half prefs. and the other half ords.
The parent owns the ords. and the pub-
lic is interested in the prefs., which carry
a cumulative 74 p.c., reduced to 5.8 p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act. The co. trades largely on a t.-p.
basis, and the store is in one of the city's
industrial areas. Slump gave sales a nasty
jolt and brought troubles with book
debts and stocks, all of which is re-
flected in a run of losses aggregating
£44,572 over the five years to the close
of accounts in 1935 and the absence of
divs. To revive turnover, an extensive
advertising campaign was launched in
1933, and, helped by the growth of em-
ployment and the general upward surge
of economic activity, it has been con-
tinued with success since.
During the last term, further growth
of employment was accompanied by
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


> '
■
mmm
mm
m
mm
■
This-is White Horse
99
• ® •
44 How do I know?
Why, you can’t mistake
it!”. . . There’s no mis-
taking this whisky, it
has such rare bouquet.
Breathe that rich frag-
rance, just faintly peated.
Feel that soft smooth-
ness, velvet and dew...
Then wait for the glow
that suffuses your being,
that wonderful warmth
without fire . . . Who
could be wrong when a
whisky is as fine as a
fine liqueur! It must be
White Horse of course!
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
WH 48-36
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale


mm
Sheen
Metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
I MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY \
JohnHcinc
£- Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
JMcPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
T-H
ELECTRIC LAMPS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Still Further
Reduced in Priee
Coiled - coil '■Single - coil g /
from JH. W ffrom M. QJr
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
Distributors for The British Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd., Eng.
ML 74
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * ■ * *
AUSTRALASIAN tiinberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, S'crap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertisin
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
invincible” .
since
WHO.
INVINCIBLE
MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES.
Petrol Kerosene—Diesel.
18 Sizes: 3 to 100 h.p.
Wjiie. for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS,
53 Nth. George St„ Sydney.
steady and continuous expansion of sales,
making the spring in turnover £67,000
over the last two years. At the same
time there has been a contraction in the
stocks item and an expansion of debtors’
balances. The £8335 of profit claimed
(an improvement of £9908 on the pre-
vious year’s result, and the first thing
of its kind since 1930) was £2535 more
than a year’s pref. div. now calls for.
But money is wanted in the business, and
the outside debt (up £14,865 last year)
calls for reduction. Still, resumption of
payments to the prefs. may not be far
distant; an official announcement will be
made within the next three months.
As for the current term, sales have
thus far been more than maintained;
the outlook, however, suggests that the im-
provement may be less marked than last
year’s. Collection of book debts is not
yet up to pre-depression standards, the
chairman says.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities . . 82,098 95,399 103,990 118,861
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 124,205 122,762 122,350 122,983
Plant, etc. . . 18,144 15,332 15,568 14,919
Stock.. .. 40,850 26,360 25,799 24,780
Book debts . . 120,350 108,735 116,305 140,506
In v e stments,
cash, etc... 9,943 484 077 095
To carry £24,261 more debtor balances,
the co. went outside for an extra £14,865.
Including stocks, the improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£47,180)
was £8395.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the fully-paid pound prefs, at 16s.
The return at this figure is 7.2 p.c. on a
5.8 p.c. div. basis, plus arrears, when
paid. The cover is 375. in net tangibles,
largely debtors’ balances.
Bebarfalds, Ltd.
This Sydney co. does a large furnishing
and furnishing-drapery business, mostly
on a t.-p. basis. Paid capital is £412,900
in 100,000 A and 99,500 B prefs.,
both 8 p.c. cumulative (reduced to 6.2
p.c. under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act), and 213,400 ords. The prefs.,
in which the public is interested (the ords.
are held privately), have not had a div.
since 1930. Slump and moratorium legis-
lation produced a run of losses aggregat-
ing £133,465 for the three years to June
30, 1933.
The business is now on a profit-earn-
ing basis again ; for the year to June 30,
1935, £13,793 was netted. But outside
liabilities then totalled £468,695, and tan-
gible assets had a book value of £827,391,
of which premises and plant accounted
for £566,493. It is thus plain that the
co.’s two most urgent needs are reduc-
tion of the outside debt and provision
of more working capital. Because of this
some modification of existing pref. rights
(arrears of pref. div, at June 30 last
amounted to £66,334, or 6s. per
share) would appear to be in the best
interests of the business as a whole.
The board called in two independent
accountants, R. W. Nelson and W. E.
Johnson, to investigate and report. They
recommend that arrears of pref. divs. to
June 30 last be cancelled, and that the
rate of div. be reduced to 6i p.c. cumu-
lative, with the right to advance with the
ords. beyond that rate to 8 p.c. All
other pref. rights, including those of the
B shares to participate with the ords.
after the latter receive 10 p.c., remain un-
altered. Also, ss. per share is to be
lopped off the ord. capital. The £53,350
thus made available is to be used to rub
out the p. and 1. debit (£20,810) and to
reduce the book value of goodwill from
£33,393 to £854.
The board has asked pref. shareholders
to agree to these proposals, which give
the prefs. an equity in future earnings to
the extent of 1J p.c. after the ords. have
had 6| p.c. An alternative would be to
give the prefs. an unrestricted right to
advance with the ords. beyond p.c.
until payments in excess of that rate
equalled the amount of arrears now pro-
posed to be cancelled. It' seems unlikely
that the ords. will get any divs. for the
next few years, at any rate. Until some
basis of agreement is reached, the busi-
ness is not likely to make the progress
that it should.
Yerranderie Ore Treatments, Ltd., is a
Sydney float to take over and treat the
slimes and sand dumps of the Silver Peak
Mine at Yerranderie, Burragorang, about
60 miles from Sydney. Nominal capital is
£10,000 in £1 shares, of which 3000 are
offered, 2570 paids go to the vendor,
Yerranderie Dumps, Ltd., and the other
4430 are in pickle. Fresh capital is
wanted for installation of a new treatment
method and additional plant, which will
also handle ore from other near-by mines
and tributors. About 8500 tons of dump
material, assaying 13.5oz. silver, ldwt.
gold and 3 p.c. lead, will be taken over.
At current metal prices, the gross value
per ton is approximately £2 11s. Experi-
ment has shown that by chlorinising and
roasting, followed by extraction of the
metals with brine solution, an 80 p.c. re-
covery can be obtained as against 28 p.c.
by cyanidation. On the basis of an 80
p.c. recovery, and with costs at 17s.,
working profit would be 23s. lOd. per ton,
or £10,129 on 8500 tons. Royalties are
figured at £1050, leaving £9079 for capi-
tal redemption and profit. In addition
there should be some profit from treat-
ment of outside ore, and there are more
near-by dumps with high silver assays.
Much depends upon the figure at which
these can be bought.
* * * . *
Provided consumption continues to in-
crease or is maintained, and provided re-
striction of production continues in the
degree necessary to prevent an undue rise
in visible supplies, tin-producers Can look
to the future with confidence, says the
chairman of Austral Malay Tin, the big
prospecting and holding co. World con-
sumption for 1935 is put at 143,000 tons
as against 117,600 tons for 1934. The
increase enabled the international quota
to be raised from 40 p.c. to 80 p.c.
during 1935, and the domestic quota in
the F.M.S. from 28.3 p.c. to 62 p.c. ; it
also brought about a fall in the average
London price of the metal from £229
for 1934 to £217 for 1935. Incidentally,
owing to over-exportation, Siam’s quota
fell from 48.7 p.c. for the first half to
46.6 p.c. for the second half of the year.
The present restriction scheme runs out
at the end of this year, and negotiations
are proceeding for a renewal. If agree-
ment is not reached, and a period of un-
restricted production is entered upon, an
increase in visible supplies and a drop in
the market price of the metal can be
looked for. After the international quota
was lifted from 80 p.c. for the last
quarter of 1935 to 90 p.c. for the first
quarter of 1936, the price fell to £201-
odd ; it strengthened slightly when the
quota for the quarter ending June 30
next was lowered to 85 p.c.
* * * *
To take advantage of the Common-
wealth Government’s £250,000 subsidy,
Drillers, Ltd., is issuing 100,000 new 5s.
shares, one for two. The issue will pro-
vide funds for immediate drilling of
Arcadia dome (Q.). Here the permo-
carboniferous formations are believed to
be the source rocks of oil and gas occur-
rences at Roma. If the option is exercised,
purchase consideration will be £50,000
(to be invested at par in shares of
Drillers, Ltd.), plus a royalty equal to
half that now payable to the Queensland
Government, or half of such royalty as
may hereinafter be imposed, whichever
is the greater. If shareholders are re-
luctant to take up the issue, the directors
say they can find new capital privately.
:jc * *
Bendigo Mines, Ltd., the big holding
co. whose offshoots are engaged on a
five-year development plan on the Ben-
digo field (Vic.), will presently call
tenders for a 30-head stamp battery. It
will be the first unit of a large central
mill to treat ore from the subsidiaries
—Napoleon, Nell Gwynne, Carshalton
and Derby—and from the Central Nell
Gwynne, in which the parent is also
interested. The parent’s capital of
£250,000 in f.-p. 10s. shares is held largely
by strong mining-finance groups in Aus-
tralia, London and New York. Of the
700.000 unissued shares, 250,000 are
under option to the underwriters until
March 28, 1938, at a premium of ss.
each. The option over another 250,000 (at
a premium of 2s. 6d. each), which expired
on March 28 last, was not exercised.
Chairman E. C. Dyason is expected to
say something about how the co. pro-
poses to finance further its programme
at the annual meeting next month.
* * * *
Central Nell Gwynne, Bendigo, is a
speculative proposition. After the 10s.
scrip had run up to 265. bears decided
that it was worth having a go at. The
market went their way for a while —
there were sales down to around 205.;
then a crushing of 210 tons for 1450 z.
(a grade of 13.8dwt. as against 13.2dwt.
for the previous milling) brought a pro-
nounced firming in the scrip, which sold
to 30s. on Thursday, weakening a shilling
or two on Friday. The co. paid its
first div. of a shilling (director Herbert
Gepp was against it) last Thursday.
•J* »(• »|»
From extreme enthusiasm td apathy—■
that is the story of the punter’s attitude
towards Aloha Central, Fiji. It was floated
by the Aloha Syndicate in Melbourne a
little over 12 months ago to test a 30-acre
block in the centre of the Tavua field,
close to the Emperor, and the £5 shares
rapidly ran up to over £3O. In
March last a Canadian group gave the
property the cold shoulder after inspec-
tion by its engineer. A meeting called
in Melbourne to decide the co.’s future
lapsed for want of attendance. A second
one arranged more recently was simi-
larly unresulting. On April 30 £ISOO
was due to Pat Costello, owner of the
area. Owing to shareholders’ disinter-
estedness the option has expired, and
the co. is to be wound up. Dr. Loftus
Hills recently mentioned 61,000 tons of
B.4dwt. ore, and said the property was
worth prospecting.
* * * *
Three Westralian-controlled goldmin-
ing ventures which haven’t done nearly
so well as they were expected to do held
apologetic meetings in Perth the other
day. Shareholders of one, Leonora Cen-
tral, one time Harbor Lights, empowered
the board to sell the co.’s property “to the
best advantage,” and, believing that two
more heads would be an acquisition, in-
creased the number of directors from
three to five. Cos. has added anew string
to its speculative bow by acquiring a
proportional interest in a venture at
Widgiemooltha, on the Norseman field.
Cash at balancing date totalled about
£7OOO.
Shareholders of Western Queen were
called together to consider reconstruc-
tion, which was agreed to. On pay-
ment of 3d. application fee, shareholders
will receive one Is. share paid to 9d. in
the new for every 2s. share held in the
old co. Since there are 600,000 shares
in the new co., the application fee will,
if everybody pays, provide £7500, which
the board considers ample to place the
mine in full production.
The chairman of New Venture de-
plored results. One hole in the ground
was abandoned after an expenditure of
£11,359, and two other shows were
turned down after outlays of £1790 and
£952 respectively. From the sale of a
cast-off £226 was received. Cos. had
95.000 shares in the Coolgardie Brilliant,
which seemed to lose its brilliance from
the day the co. acquired it, and is now
estimated to have a liquidation value of
£1760. There are hopes of selling the
Coolgardie leases mentioned B. 29/4/’36
to an overseas crowd. Cash in hand has
dwindled to £800. 4
* * * * i
Two opinions are freely expressed in
the West regarding Boulder Persever-
ance: (1) Prospects are all right, and
after the notes are paid in September
shareholders may look for increased
dividends; (2) owing to developments
at depth, the milling grade will have to
come down, and dividends will be little,
if any, better after the notes are paid
than they are now. Officially the mine
is a sealed book ; but some light may be
thrown on the subject at the next annual
meeting.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., in
which the Baillieus and Robinsons have
a big say, and whose assets include, the
old Associated Northern and Australia
East on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, is
so confident of its future that it proposes
to erect a treatment plant with a capa-
city of about 10,000 tons monthly. At
present ore extracted from its holdings
is treated at the old patched-up Asso-
ciated mill. Lately the co. has mined
rich stuff in the Associated Northern,
which it bought a year or so ago for
very little.
* * * *
Wiluna East Development failed in its
claim in the Warden’s Court, Wiluna
(W.A.), last week for the recovery of £265
from J. F. and F. S. Bardborn on account
of repossession of the lease over which
the co. had an option last year. Defen-
dants contended that they repossessed to
protect their own interests.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.F.McL.: Not known to us....M.M. and
D.R.M.: No regular market for Whakatane
Paper Mills shares. Hamiltons (Aust.) might
know... .J.G.A.S.: Not listed on ’Change. ...
R.J.O’R.: No V.D.: Haven’t followed it
closely, but looks among better-class gambles.
. ...R.G.: Depends on conditions. Shares are
generally preferable to forestry bonds... .E.J.:
One of the soundest of the forestry ventures.
It now rests on the profits available from the
timber... .W.J.B.: (1) Taken over in 1931 by
Associated Dominions Assurance. (2) A fair
chance of being paid in full... .Q.S.: Get in
touch with one of the big mutual or semi-
mutual offices,.. .R.J.: If they are Mt. Elliott
preferred ord. shares, they are worth about 5s.
(Australian money) in London. There are three
classes of shares, with varying values. Write
Frank Wolff, sharebroker, Lombard Cham-
bers, Pitt-street, Sydney, giving particulars, and
he may be able to sell them... R.M.B.: Unless
you have money to play with, drop out....
R.A.Y.: All reasonably good, but prefer (2)
and (3), and wouid rather buy the latter
fully paid than the contribs Miner:
Write Raub Australian G.M. Co., Brisbane.
....G.J.: Don’t know anything of co. or pro-
cess... .P.C.C.S.: Don’t know co. Not one
of the bigger afforestation concerns... .Mae
(Launceston): When Burma Malay turned down
its option sharemarket lost interest. No recent
dealings... .Anxious:" Write to co. by regis-
tered letter, explaining position... .W.D.McC.:
(1) Seems to be struggling. (2) Well con-
ducted ; future depends on what the timber
realises.. . .S.N.: Convert to shares. Neither
bonds nor shares have a regular market....
Jim Pee: Lustre Hosiery ords. and Yarra Falls
ords., 100 of each, obtainable through Sydney
brokers.... M.F.: Leave it alone.... Dry-
blower: Unfortunately both plant and ore are
giving trouble... .J.C.M.: They underwrite new
issues; also appear to sell scrip on commission
or profit-margin... .D.G.: Yes... .Timber: Let
the bonds go, unless you can afford a long-
term spec. You can’t get a refund, but may
be relieved of balance... .M.R.A.: Yes, sell
the prefs W.B.: (1) Just let the matter
drop. Co., in the circumstances, probably
won’t go further. (2) Don’t like prospects of
the industry in M.L S.T.S.: Private co.
No information... .A.G.M.: Don’t know it.


AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
“A sure friend in uncertain times.'
A S announced at the Annual Meeting of members on Ist May, the Society
grows from strength to strength. Its assets and the number of members
increase from day to day. Last year the number of new policies issued reached
135,200, or 433 new policies every working day.
433 New Policies
every working day
Such figures indicate the public’s faith in the Society’s strength and in its capacity
to husband and develop that strength in its members’ interests. The extraor-
dinary growth in the Society’s assets is further evidence. In 1922 the Society’s
assets were worth £50,000,000. To-day, 14 years later, they are worth
£101,869,000.
Assets now
£101,869,000
At the Annual Meeting the members approved of the Principal Board’s
recommendation that £5,100,000 be allotted as Reversionary Bonuses for the year,
and Bonus Certificates will be issued in due course to participating policy-holders.
£5,100,000
in bonus additions
Membership in the A.M.P. is open to men and women in good health. The
wise citizen will ask the nearest office of the Society to send an experienced
adviser to talk the matter over with him or her.
Write to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Delia”: Have just been reading
Hard Life in the Colonies, by one
Catherine Jenkyns, published in 1891.
Bloodsucking bull-ants, lyrebirds which
accompanied her violin-playing and
koalas which required numerous shots to
bring them down are a
few of the lady’s experi-
ences. I am inclined
to award the medal for
her kangaroo tale. Near
Melbourne a mob of
some hundreds of kan-
garoos crossed the path
of her party. These
were led by a large
deer, to whose move-
ments they conformed
with the regularity of a
Guards battalion.
“Strange as it appears,”
says Kate, “the fact
remains that kangaroos
prefer the guidance of
a deer to one of their
own tribe.”
* * *
“Packbag”: Joe had
been an old Murray
whaler, and I asked
him why he travelled
alone. “I’ve got me own thoughts
about things,” he told me, “an’ I
like to stick to ’em. If I talk to other
blokes, I get sort of contradicted. I won’t
stand that, so I always stays on me own
and think out new ideas in place of me
old ones.”
* * * *
“A.E.H.”: I was fishing for fresh-
water herring in a broad ford of the
upper reaches of the Mersey (Tas.),
when a heavyweight farmer, carrying his
already-rigged rod, rode his draught
horse into the stream. Whether it was
the elevated position of the fisher or the
herring's acceptance of the horse as a
part of Nature’s scheme, I know not;
but he certainly clutched more fish
against his expansive chest than we who
waded. And he certainly looked more
comfortable.
'!• -I* -I'
“Tid’apa”: If The Bulletin is out to
scotch myths, what about the oft-
published report of a couple of turtles
being seen on the surface engaged in
mortal combat, the yarn usually emanat-
ing from passengers arriving from Asia?
Actually, the reptiles are only indulging
in a little lovemaking, as every species
londucts its courting on the surface. Dur-
ing this season the turtle is easy meat for
most natives, being so engrossed that
they seem to throw their natural caution
to the wind and can easily be approached
by canoes. Black Brother slips over-
board, seizes the back flippers over
crossed arms and turns the amorous one
on its back.
* * * *
“Quartza”: Grubs and ants are not the
only Morse-signallers who bash their
craniums against the earth. That doubly-
damned pest the rabbit is a pastmaster
at it. When startled or disturbed he
hurls himself down the warren, and, as
soon as he is comfortably seated below,
begins thumping the roof of the burrow
with his brainbox. The thuds of his
code are well-spaced and distinct, the
sound apparently travelling a good dis-
tance. At the first thud all rabbits within
200 yards cease feeding, sit up and listen ;
at the second thud they dash towards
cover, where they pause and sniff appre-
hensively. A third thud, and the earth
swallows them all. Then the official
thudder of each warren proceeds to signal
further afield, and before long not one
cotton-tail is visible within half a mile.
Some bucks become so proficient at
Morse thud that they acquire swelled
heads.
* * * *
“Cent”: A Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.)
cocky placed a chain around a calf’s
forehead, between the horns and eyes,
and fastened at the back with a calabash
link. The beast got away and went bush
for several years. It was recaptured
recently ; the chain was still in its head,
with several feet of it hanging loosely.
The bones of the forehead had grown
right over, leaving a neat passage in
which the chain did not touch any vital
part.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Chance saved the new-
comer to coral reefs from an agony of
pain, maybe death, certainly long and
serious illness. He asked explosively
what was the bright idea in shoving him
“ There's only this bottle left , Dave. Think We better Wait for the bloke
to come up from the shed?”
"No, it’d look crook us drinkin it in front of ’im."
nearly over just as his sandshoe-clad foot
was entering a little pool. The answer
was squirming slowly on the spear-
points, now and then arching swiftly to
a quarter circle along its back. A thick-
set, shaggy-looking lOin. fish, with warty,
baggy skin hanging loosely over short,
broad fins, a line of loose pendants along
its back, it looked exactly like a weed-
clad piece of reef-growth. Under those
back pendants lay a row of 13 sharp,
slender lances, midway between base and
apex of each a gland filled with virulent
poison. Trodden on, even touched, those
lances will pierce a sandshoe sole, and
leave their broken tips in the wound
after they discharge their poison.
Synanceia horrida, the stone-fish, is ab-
horred of divers.
* * * H=
“Horsetailer”: Binghi will eat only
snakes he has killed himself. Once I
handed a Pindan Kimberley buck an
appetising six-footer, but he refused it.
My boy explained later: “That pheller
snake no good, boss. Maybe him bite
himself one-time, bite himself two time.
If that pheller eat, he feel sick, too, all
the same longa snake.”
i’fi Jj* ♦ *
“Ras fieri”: The succulent M.L.
whitebait, popular in tinned form in
Australia, is a vanishing race in the
North Island, although still plentiful in
some of the more remote western rivers
of the south. Under the Treaty of
Waitangi, natives may take these fish at
any time of the year, although the com-
mercial season is limited to three months.
As a result, the larger “enunga,” or
mother-of-whitebait, coming up to spawn
long before the official season, are caught
by the natives by the sackful, and when
the season proper arrives very poor
“runs” are experienced.
♦■* * *
“C. 0.” (Canada): Conditions regarding
extermination of rabbits vary greatly as
between Canada and Australia, as the
following extract from the Montreal
“Gazette” (11/3/’36) demonstrates:
Fines totalling 1440 dollars, plus costs,
were imposed on three men who pleaded
guilty to killing 16 rabbits during the
closed season.
The heaviest sentence was imposed on
Paul Desrochers, of Quebec, who pleaded
guilty to having killed 11 rabbits within the
St. Marguerite area between March 1 and
10. He was sentenced to pay a fine of
5990 and costs or serve six months in gaol.
All three chose to serve their sentences.
* =H *
“Groper”: The mass instinct of fish
is a curious study. For the past couple
of months the narrow entrance of Peel
Inlet (s.-w. W.AQ has been completely
closed by a wide sand bar. As a result,
angling in the vicinity of the “bar” had
been only fair, the whiting having _evi-
dently passed upstream to more spacious
waters. Then the locked-out sea began to
roll, huge combers flinging right across
the high, acre-wide bar. Hopes rose high
that a breach was imminent. Curiously,
the fish seemed to think the same, for the
previously almost empty inside pools
suddenly became crowded with shoals of
whiting and pilchard. The most despised
bait found takers, while even mug
anglers got good bags. Yet both fish and
humans were disappointed, for the sea
died down without breaking down the
bar. The disturbance was unaccompanied
by any storm, indeed, by scarcely a
breath of wind, yet the fish far upstream
knew and were on the qui vive.
$ * * *
“Saddle-flap”: Tell “Dusty” there’s one
place where bees won’t go (B. 8/4/’36),
and that’s west of the Darling. At Bourke,
Pera Bore and Wilcannia (N.S.W.) I’ve
seen swarms imported and partially fed
so as to enable these insects to fertilise
orange-trees and pumpkins there. Always
they disappeared in one season. There are
no native bees on the Darling either.
“Cape Wollamai”: Near the Walsh
River (N.Q.), I found a native bees’ nest
in the top of an anthill. In the mound,
also, were white ants in the top storey
and black meat-ants on the ground floor.
* * *
“Western”: The wave, that struck the
Nairana as she was entering Port
Phillip Heads (B. 29/4/’36) probably
had its origin in the collapse of a giant
waterspout. Fishing off Mandurah
rW.A.) in a dead calm a couple of years
ago we noticed an enormous waterspout,
towering from sea to sky, on the far
horizon. After hanging stationary for a
couple ,of minutes it fell. Some time
passed: then, leaping as it were out of a
dead flat sea, came an enormous wave,
towering as high as a church. Luckily
we were drifting, and were nose on, and
so managed to ride it, though not without
a terrific shaking. Where did that one big
wave come from? From nowhere other
than the fall of the thousands of tons of
water which had hung suspended in the
“spout.” In a narrow sea like the Bass
Strait, the effect of such a splash would
be magnified enormously. Back in the
windjammer days ships not seldom went
straight to the bottom through collision
with small collapsed waterspouts.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The recent suggestion as to
a quasi-Tasmanian race having inhabited
Kangaroo Island (S.A.) has been quickly
dealt with by Tindale, ethnologist of
Adelaide Museum. Among the native
remains he found unmistakable white-
sealer objects. The big island was
the home, long before Adelaide was
founded, of these sealers ; having hardly
any connection with the mainland, they
brought a few Tasmanian women with
them, and these made characteristic
baskets and the like. A grandson of one
of them is still living there.
* * * *
“Bimbo”: Dad was recovering from
an illness, and the doctor had ordered
egg-and-milk flips, with whisky added as
an inducement for the unwilling patient
to take it. I inquired how he was pro-
gressing with his farmyard cocktail.
“Good-oh!” he said. “But I don’t know
how it will end. I’m three weeks ahead
with the whisky and a fortnight behind
with the milk.”
* * * *
“Sisera”: The Papuan peoples with
whom I was once in contact outvied
Binghi (B. 22/4/’36) when it came to
hereditary rights in property. When the
Mamba natives murdered Magistrate
Green and sundry miners, Governor Mac-
Gregor exacted payment in a fashion
which would make modern Administra-
tors profess holy horror in their reports.
As a consequence several villages were
abandoned by the natives, one having a
fair supply of betel and coconut palms, all
owned by individuals and families. The
years went by until one day a deputation
of former villagers or their descendants
called and asked for help in the re-alloca-
tion of their long-abandoned property.
During the years many new palms had
added themselves to the old ones, and
some of these last, of course, had died.
Yet every claimant swore he knew which
of the palms, old and new, were his, and
demanded an official title. After two days
litigation I suggested in despair that all
the palms, old and new, be pooled and
divvied up among the 20 or so claimants.
To my surprise this settlement by mutual
consent was adopted, and all parties went
home happy.
* * * *
“G.G.6”: If would have been better
if “Nejd,” in his criticism of shelly-
footed horses (B. 15/4/’36), had men-
tioned which one of the 20 or so A.P.
stations along the Balonne he had en-
countered them on. Some of the Butler
horses were from mares running on hard
country with plenty of stony ridges like
Noond'oo or Yerambah, and when
dropped on their dams’ country were well
up to the average in the matter of hooves.
Another point about these horses bred on
alluvial river flats were their long pas-
terns, a serious fault which became vety
noticeable as they aged.
* * * *
“Nor’west”: As a scratcher for a liv-
ing with the minimum of labor, Binghi
stands as model for the universe. In
North Australia as the “dry” nears its
end tucker becomes hard to get. Fish ,'s
still to be caught in the deeper lagoons
and the sea, but ducks and other
feathered fry have passed along with the
evaporated swamps. But Binghi still has
his “poultry” ; hawks are always there.
Building a cunning little shelter just high
enough to lie under, he roofs with sticks
and grass. Then, as bait, he hoists a
frilled lizard tied to a stick. Soon a hawk
floats overhead. A shake of the stick and
the lizard wriggles. Down swoops the
hawk ; up goes a hand, and dinner be-
comes a certainty. In numbers of places
these hawk-traps are permanent struc-
tures, two low stone walls which puzzle
the white passer-by until he has seen them
roofed over and put to use.
* H= * *
“GDI”: Queer bush accidents? An
old Queensland wether was camping at
the foot of a little coolabah ringbarked
by corellas. Suddenly the rotted roots
gave way and the tree fell beside the
sheep, one small projecting stub catching
a single lock of wool on its belly and
pressing it into the ground. It never
touched the skin ; it wasn’t even half-
way down the staple. But it held that
old wether tighter than all the holds in
jiu-jitsu. Luckily we found him two days
later, and a mightily relieved old jumbuck
galloped off to water, pretty hollow, but
none the worse for his experience.
AN AXEMANS RHYME.
Out with an axe on a timbered hill:
Bird notes clear in a world so still,
As the dawn mists drift away,
And the dew drops soft to the fallen leaves,
While the gossamers that the spider weaves
Are jewelled where the sunbeams play.
A hickory shaft and a razor edge.
And we’ll soon be ready for maul and wedge.
The tall tree sways and swings,
And a jackass, perched on a limb near by,
Watches the toil with a grave, keen eye,
And flutters his lazy wings.
The white chips dance to the ground below
In a mounting pile to each shivering blow,
And the breath comes deep and fast.
Till a shuddering creak and a rustle of leaves,
As the massive trunk sways back and heaves,
Proclaim the end at last.
Down with a groan and a headlong crash,
Trunk and limbs in a wild, mad smash,
Echoing down the tracks!
While the startled minahs scream and wheel
And the jackass drops to an upturned meal,
And you lean on the haft of the axe.
The crackle of.twigs and the blue smoke-rings,
While the blackened billy sways and sings
And a thrush breaks into song.
A drink and a smoke and it’s work again,
Keeping the time to a new refrain
As the crosscut swings along.
Out in the bush on a timbered hill:
Keen-edged tools and an axeman’s skill,
Old since the world began;
The chatter of birds and the keen, sweet air;
The sweat and the toil for the bushman’s
share;
But at least it’s the life of a man!
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Bilbury”: Big Dan had been ringer
for years at a Coonamble (N.S.W.) shed,
but was in danger of losing his title to
a “casual” who had dropped in for the
lamb shearing. Dan was a profuse per-
spirer, and as he loosed a sheep he would
hurriedly wipe his face and forehead
with a sweat-rag hung on a nail behind
him. The “casual” was a fraction be-
hind him at the 150th. Dan, flat out,
glanced quickly at his rival, jerked his
machine out of gear, threw the sweat-
rag down the chute, wiped his face with
the lamb, jabbed it up on the nail and
rushed the pen for his next catch.
Jfc
“Surcingle”: Ant and caterpillar duels
(B. 11 /3 / ’36)? In the N.Q. tobacco
fields a lone ant hasn’t much chance
against a caterpillar. Before he can ad-
minister the needle to the ’pillar that
gentleman has squirted out a liquid poison
in defence. Sergeant-major Ant needs at
least one private to attack from the rear
flank to get a prisoner. But the scout
ant becomes so used to tackling the
squashed grubs thrown in the drills that
on striking a live ’pillar he’s off his guard
and more often the victim.
5jC
“Me”: The fussy little man bustled
down through wire fences and gates to
where Dad was ploughing. “Sir,” he
started, “I am a soil expert. By scientific
examination of your soil for a small fee
I can tell you what crops this soil will
grow for profit.” “Giddup!” said Dad
“I ’ear she's gorn back to 'er 'usband
now 'er lover's in gaol!"
to his team in a tired voice ; ‘’you’re
not a soil expert, lad—you’re a
magician! ”
* $ $ *
“G.V.S.”: Does any Aboliar know the
speed with which the wallaby propagates
its species? One at a time seems to be
the rule, but I have seen a well-grown
youngster hop away from a doe caught
in a neck snare, and on examining her
pouch have found one teat obviously in
milk and well-used, while to the other
was securely fastened a tiny naked
youngster.
* * * *
“Tid'apa”: 'The other day I read a yarn
in which the hero is cast up on a coral
atoll when his launch is pounded to
pieces on the tropic reef. He has just
sufficient strength to crawl beneath a
coconut-tree. On reviving he
finds two fallen coconuts near
by, and a second later is drink-
ing the lifesaving liquid. Just
another of the many lives
saved by novelists, though in
real life the castaway would go
thirsty for a darned long time.
Even with a strong knife
husking a coconut is no easy
job ; it takes up to 20 minutes
to hack away the three-inch
covering of tough husk. With-
out a knife the only alternative
is to bash it on a lump of
coral until the husk frays, and
then it must be broken care-
fully to retain the milk. Native
huskers use a strong sharp
stake that has one end firmly
fixed in the coral, the nut being
forced sharply a few times
against the sharpened end.
Good nutters clean 10 a
minute, but they have small
boys collecting the fallen nuts
and bringing them to the scene
of operations. Next to the
Malay the slickest thing I know at open-
ing one is the robber crab, his time being
about five minutes.
* * * *
“Ornithos”: The two old bullockies
were arguing about their teams and big
pulls. Said Mick: “A log I was haulin’
out o' the scrub jambed between trees.
I straightened out me bullicks and put
’em at it. I got out all right, but it took
all the bark off the log, and when I
come to measure up the flamin’ thing
was eighteen inches longer than when I
cut it.” Said Bob: “I was bogged with a
load of wool at the Bend Crossin’ on the
Barcoo. I yoked all me spares up and
got at it. She come clear all right, but
when I come to look behind there was
no bend there. No, it was just a straight
channel.”
# * * *
“Underwood”: Alarm-clocks are rare
in the bush as most outbackers wake up
at dawn as a matter of course. Old
Archie, the bullocky, had not this gift,
and, as he often turned his charges into
roadside paddocks for the night, he had
to be up early to remove them before dis-
covered. When his offside leader had
settled for the night, Archie would unroll
his blankets alongside and tie the tail of
the bullock to his shirt. Baldy could
always be relied on to stir at the first
hint of daylight.
* & *
“Nagheer”: The rifle fish are grow-
ing plump on the hordes of small insects
sheltering under the jetty from the rains.
They surely must be the world’s best
marksmen —in many years of observation
I have never seen one miss. Graceful
chaps, anything up to a foot long, they
cruise just under the surface watching
for a shot. When the quarry is marked
down, the hunter sneaks up within a
yard or so, points the elongated snout
above the surface, and an ejected drop
of water knocks the victim from its perch.
Even if it takes to the wing, a flying
shot always brings it down. Some call
them archer fish —Toxotidce is the scien-
tific name of their family. They occur in
tropic waters in many parts of the world,
and were first described from the East
Indies in 1764.
“ ’Bout that furriner from Broken 'III, Nich'las; can 'e speak English
't all?"
“ 'E speak un splendid, curly—party near's good as me an you."
“The O.D.”: I suspect “Ock Ulist”
(B. 8/4/’36). His treatise on bushmen’s
eyes sounds too much like an expert
talking, and experts are over-prone to
state what people—and things —should
do, ignoring what they do do. There are
few “bad-tempered, ill-conditioned” bush-
men (though plenty of hard swearers),
for their life is one creating sound physi-
cal health and philosophy. Few bushmen
nod over a book ; if the book be attrac-
tive enough they will stay awake all night
to read it to the end. “O.U.” has been
observing a few elderly farm couples.
And the accuracy of bush eyesight is the
last thing he should put his instruments
on. Has he ever seen a true bushman
estimate distance, the height of a tree, or
the fall of a slope ; or watched him iden-
tify a man far off, certain sheep in a
flock, a horse he has not seen for months,
and so on? I’ve seen engineer’s instru-
ments made to look silly by the accuracy
of a bushman’s eye.
;Jc •!» •!» 'I*
“C.B.”: I thank “Deadhouse Dick”
for clearing up (B. 22/4/’36) a mysteri-
ous incident of my last expedition across
the Yo-urab-eelyah Mountains. Using
the customary pack-broken purinthy for
transport, we ascended the 5000ft. preci-
pices by hanging on to its tail, after-
wards parachuting it
down the other side and
following at our leisure
as it grazed. At one
terrific descent I was
horrified to see a great
brown shape, clad in
ragged oilskins, shoot
out on wings from the
cliff face, seize our
faithful dumb ally, and
bear it to a ledge with
the evident intention of
devouring it. Unsling-
ing my sub-machine
gun, a personal gift
from A1 Capone, I sent
the marauder hurtling
to its doom. Hastily
disguising ourselves as
a second purinthy, old
Wotta Woppa and I
launched off. Two
more of the winged
terrors flew out, two
bursts of rapid fire
from dear old Al’s
timely present disposed
of them and we alighted
safely. As we were
calming the ' startled
purinthy, and examin-
ing its precious load for
breakage, old Wotta
stooped and picked up a half-digested
lump I had evidently shot out of one
of the aerial marauders. It proved to
be a fragment of a N;G. coastal master’s
ticket, wrapped round an electroplated
spoon engraved: “Stolen from Mother
Platt, Samarai.”
* * * *
“First Blue”: Deer-shooting has re-
appeared as a pastime for many Vic-
torian youths. This time the orgy of all-
night stalking was started by a farmer
in the ranges near Gembrook whose
crops were being damaged by antlered
invaders. He wrote to Melbourne news-
papers inviting sportsmen to aid him;
in the result hordes of inexperienced lads
with high-powered rifles, spotlights and
“sound decoy whistles” went over his
property night and day, doing more dam-
age in half an hour than the deer had
done in 12 months. One night he
saw two enthusiasts capering round
in the home paddock, one of them lug-
ging a .303 rifle, the other with a pair
of antlers tied with rope to his shoulders.
The idea, borrowed from an American
Nature magazine, didn’t get a chance to
work properly, for another party in
the scrub caught sight of the antlers over
the top of the undergrowth and blazed
away. It cured that agriculturist of writ-
ing letters to the dailies.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: “Capricorrius’s” par. on the
alpaca (B. 22/4/’36) recalls the pro-
posal to introduce chamois into Tas-
mania. The idea was that the chamois,
inhabiting mountain-tops, would not
compete with the native game, and by
providing an additional target for the
sportsman’s gun would relieve the pres-
sure on the island’s fauna. The proposal
was rejected, as it was thought that the
animals, scampering away, would dislodge
loose rocks, to the imminent danger of
mountaineers.
Hs * H* Jfc
The really ravenous shark
will take risks to get a feed. I’ve seen
them at East Boyd (Twofold Bay,
N.S.W.), at a spot where sheep are killed
and the offal thrown into the bay, leave
the water on the top of a swell, grab
hunks of sheep stranded by the backwash
and catch the following swell on its
recession. Occasionally one has hurled
itself so far out as to be almost high and
dry and then rolled back down the slight
incline into its native element.
* -<•
“Dai”: That abo. delicacy the white
wood grub tastes like frogs’ legs, a lot
better than it sounds. A couple of dozen,
roasted, make a snack that no gourmet
could fault once he plucked up courage
for the initial swallow. Asa jackeroo
in Queensland I often used them as a
fill-up. On one occasion, hearing that
the boss’s two daughters were coming out
to my camp on the run (they had been
acquiring polish at a school in Sydney),
I combed the district and had a welcome-
home, toasting on the fire, awaiting them.
When they saw them they forgot their
city manners and bogged in, unmindful
of the horrified look on the face of the
school pal who had come with them. She ■
turned very green, and spent a harrowing
few minutes behind my hut.
* * *
“Bisi”: Greasing of a waterbag is
necessary (B. 8/4/’36) if a traveller has
to depend for water on the supply he
carries, for in a dry, hot climate the
water in an average-sized waterbag would
evaporate in 48 hours. The fluid seeps
through the canvas and passes into the air
as vapor, the residue being cooled ; the
process continues until all the water is
gone —with its owner, too, if he relies
on it! For the traveller afoot whose
life depends on the water he carries, the
military waterbottle is the best.
GREAT SNAKES!
“Them station kids are tough, all right,”
Said Bill, the boss of Fuller’s run;
‘Tve seen ’em work when hands was scarce,
And tendin’ sheep’s not always fun.
But some are tougher than the rest —
I guess they’re kind of born with cheek —
And Jimmy Cole’s young nipper Sam
Made history once at Dingo Creek.
‘Td rode across to Jimmy’s place,
One hot and sultry summer’s day,
For castor oil to drench a cow
That sickened with some poison hay.
I couldn’t make nobody hear,
So wanders down beside the dam;
And here’s an eight-foot tiger-snake
In mortal holts with tiny Sam.
“The five-year-old was leanin’ back
Against a tree in Jimmy’s yard;
And writhin’ in the nipper’s grip
The Joseph Blake was fightin' hard.
Tve handled snakes ’most all me life,
And knew just how the chances lay
If Sam had lost his nerve just then
Or raised his eyes to look my way.
‘Don’t move!’ I warns the strugglin’ kid
(Just here me blood run cold with dread);
Then stoopin’ down 1 grabs a bag
And wraps it round that lashin’ head.
I heaves like mad and throws the snake
High up across a clump of scrub;
And sees it divin’ down a hole,
As, kidlike, Sam begins to blub.
“Just then Big Jim comes runnin’ up,
All pantin’ like he’s had a fit:
I tells him all about the snake,
And how young Sam was nearly bit.
’Well, spare me days,’ says Jim to me,
‘You’d make a flamin’ feller sick.
I gave the kid that snake to hold
While I went lookin’ for a stick.’ ”
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


PERMANENT PASTURES
The best results can only be
assured by using
THE BEST
P. 8.9 FERTILIZER
Because it ensures not only a quick
start to the grass, but also a suffi-
ciency of Plant Food throughout the
whole year, being a mixture of
quick-acting (Superphosphate and
Sulphate of Ammonia) and slow-
acting (Blood and Bone) Manures.
Write for Pamphlets, Post Free.
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
Fertilizer Experts,
52 King Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK f LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); IV. 11. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, K. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
At Sydney’
Social
Centre
You will find every
modern convenience,
first-c lass service
and , an excellent
cuisine.
m
Hotel Mansions
Is situated in the most central part
of Sydney, and is the real home for
visitors from all over the world.
Excellent catering for Wedding Break-
fasts, Dinners and Private Lunches, etc.
King’s 'Ci oss, Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 {l4 lines).
RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS
Stop that pain. Howards Swedish
Remedy will dissolve those torturing
crystals that collect in the joints and
muscles. This famous old recipe—
the discovery of an old Swedish lady
• —will cleanse the blood stream, and
bring you freedom from the fiery
pains and stiffness. Just think, you
will once more be active, healthy,
fit. No matter how stubborn your
case, no matter how disappointed you
have been wdth other treatments —let
this old remedy work its marvellous
powers —quickly, surely, permanently.
Write for FREE particulars.
Price, 21/6 —one month’s generous
supply.
OUR GUARANTEE—we will refund
your money in full should you not
be satisfied.
From chemists and stores, or direct
from
THE HOWARD COMPANY,
BOX 4, 43 BARK STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIBE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Lambs’ Wool.
“Murrawong”: The increasing import-
ance of having lambs’ wool properly pre-
pared for market is more realised than
formerly, but many graziers are still re-
luctant to give facilities for having the
job thoroughly done. The old fallacious
idea that lamb-shearing is the classer’s
holiday is still evident in the discrepancy
in rates paid.
Although some early shearing proper-
ties have their lambs “whitewashed” at
the general shearing, the majority hold
olf until the lambs carry a profitable
fleece or until menaced by grass seed.
As a result, the day has almost dis-
appeared when the advent of lambs on
the board means that the classer can
retire for a smoke and a spell. With
smaller holdings and smaller sheds where
the classer is expected to do wool-rolling
or piece-picking in addition to his own
job and up to five lines of lambs’ wool
are made, the classer invariably gives a
sigh of relief when the last lamb goes
down the chute.
Even if the lambs are very small it is
a mistake to sweep everything off the
board straight into a pack. Have it
put on a table and all dags, stains, etc.,
removed from the wool. The bigger the
lambs the more work will be entailed. If
lambs are being shorn in small mobs,
sandwiched between grown sheep, there
are seldom bins available for the lambs’
wool, and it should be picked into packs
hung beside the tables. These butts can
then be pushed aside until the next lot of
lambs come in, and shearing goes on
without a break.
When merino lambs’ wool begins to
show signs of crimp- formation, two lines
should be made. The top line, which
will be longer, brighter and freer, should
be picked out for the top line. The
balance, with stains removed, forms the
second line.
When lambs carry only light burr,
every effort should be made to get a top
line perfectly burr-free. In fleece wool,
an odd burr does not matter —it can be
combed out without causing any trouble
—but a top line of free lambs must be
without a single burr. The price margin
between free and even light burry lambs’
wool fully repays the extra care entailed,
and there should be no stinting of labor.
Merino lambs cutting over 2lb. may need
three main lines —a top line of free wool,
a slightly shorter, light burry line, then
the short dusty wool. All straight, strong,
hairy-tipped stuff should be kept apart.
Each year sees an increase in the
number of crossbred lambs shorn. This
wool is classed according to quality, and
time and trouble may be saved by
drafting the lambs into comeback, fine-
medium crossbred and English breeds
before running them into the shed. If
these fleeces can be picked up and care-
fully thrown out on the table, it will
facilitate handling. Remove stains and
dags. If there are enough fleeces to
make a line and it is possible to lightly
remove burry skirts, this may be done,
bellies going with skirtings.
Rams and Condition.
“Bimbo”: As “Granova” says (B.
15/4/’36), rams must be in good condi-
tion when placed with the ewes. I run
my rams on a top-dressed rye-grass and
clover pasture and they are always fat.
For many years past I have averaged
just on 100 p.c. of lambs.
One year, the rams carried so much
condition that several wiseheads pre-
dicted that I would not get a lamb, but
I marked 106 p.c.
The same year a neighbor had his
rams so poor that they would not work
when placed with the ewes. They had
to be removed and fed on oats and chaff
for a month before they were any use.
And yet after that he had poor results.
Even when rams are in good condition
it is well worth while to give them a
fattening ration for a few weeks before
joining them.
Sheep Stomachs and Drenching.
“Corriedale”: What “Liss” (B.
29/4/’36) says about the inefficiency of
starvation on the working power of a
drench is sound.
The Clunies Ross experiments over
the last three years have elucidated the
“There's a lot more in this log than yd think, Joe!”
fact that, as the period of starvation in-
creases, the contents of the rumen
become more liquid, whereas normally
they are semi-solid. At 48 hours they
are almost wholly liquid, a change
brought about by the solid stuff going
into the omasum and abomasum. These
are invariably fairly well filled with
packed fodder at the 24-hour starvation
stage.
It is useful to understand the
mechanism of the sheep’s stomachs as
a guide to the passage of a drench. First,
there is the big rumen, then the reti-
culum, a false stomach at one end of
the rumen. Attached to it is the small
circular omasum, which has a passage
leading to the last stomach, the aboma-
sum. In popular parlance these are, in
order, paunch, honeycomb or tripe, bible
or manifold, rennet or true stomach.
Food from the mouth enters the
stomach at the top of the reticulum, and
here is the oesophageal groove. It is a
muscular, vertical tube leading into the
omasum which can split open to one
side and let food pass into the reticulum
and so through to the rumen.
If the animal drinks, however, the
groove closes by reflex action, and shoots
the liquid clean through the low-lying
passage in the omasum straight to the
abomasum. Liquid swallowed does not
go to the rumen, except for the first
few ounces, nor does any food go any-
where else, unless cudded, when it goes
direct to the omasum. The whole appara-
tus is a marvellous piece of adaptation.
Where this swabbing of the mouth with
copper sulphate solution before drench-
ing comes in is that the chemical affects
the nerves controlling the groove, and
this closes. Why the few c.cs. it is pos-
sible to administer effectively after the
swabbing don’t fall by the wayside into
the omasum folds, as the food does, is a
mystery, but it works.
Moving Sand's.
J. B. Cramsie: I have been warning
our Governments for many years to pro-
vide against the extension of the menace.
1 had previously travelled over most
of Western Central Queensland and the
eastern half of the N.T., and had a good
knowledge of that country under ordinary
seasons. For a few years prior to 1901
the numbers of stock in Western Central
Queensland had been continually in-
creasing, and the lessees were asking the
pastures to carry more stock than they
were able to do. These lessees were
not increasing their water and fencing
improvements sufficiently fast, and were
relying too much on natural waterholes.
While g.m. of a Central Queensland
meatworks whose interests were
threatened by stock losses, I travelled
over 1200 miles down the Thompson to
Cooper’s Creek, and in a westerly circle
back to Longreach. I saw that rolling
sandhills had in many cases covered
fences, buildings, homesteads and even
stockyards to such an extent that it was
more costly at the conclusion of the
drought to remove the sand than erect
new improvements.
Since then I have investigated shifting
sandhills and soil erosion in Western
Queensland, Western N. S. Wales, parts
of the Riverina and in the various
Western States of the U.S.A., where
recently grave troubles of soil erosion
have occurred. I am confident that the
principal cause is overstocking and not
failure to provide sufficient watering
places and tree life. In recent years
higher land values have made the over-
stocking position more serious.
My experience is that pasture land
should be spelled sectionally each year
until grass seed falls. If the pasture is
continually fully stocked and never
allowed to seed, the good binding grasses
disappear, and are replaced by weeds
which have less binding effect.
The absence of tree life, enabling the
winds to have full play on the surface
of the soil, increases the trouble, which
rapidly extends. An inquiry by compe-
tent men should be made so that Gov-
ernments may be advised of the means
that should be taken for its prevention.
If steps were taken to prevent
overstocking and the continuous move-
ments of large numbers of stock round
too few watering places, we should be
able at least to minimise the threat which
now hangs over thousands of square
miles of the Eastern States and N.T.
Permit Requirements.
“Seenitall”: In N.S.W. and some other
States one must have a permit to travel
sheep in a motor-lorry or by air, as well
as under ordinary conditions. There is
no charge when transporting by m.-l., but
full particulars have to be given and all
sheep branded. This applies on a jour-
ney only as far as the local saleyard.
Exemption can be got for lambs under
six months or suckers by applying to
a stock inspector.
The minimum charge for a N.S.W.
permit is 10d. per 100 sheep or part for
the first 10 miles. For 101 sheep it
would be Is. 2d., the old scale applying
as before for anything after the first
minimum charge. Cattle have been
raised from 9d. to
Is. per 25 or less
for the first 10
miles. Thereafter,
the charges revert
to the old scale.
Pork in Britain.
“Pappamosca”:
Pork seems to be
going to the bad as
a foreign-import
business to Brit-
ain, though there
is plenty of mar-
gin for the de-
velopment of the
Australian trade.
As D e n m a r k’s
trade has gone
down, under the
stress of restric-
tions, British
breeding sows
have increased 20
p.c. in numbers
in two years.
Bacon imports last year were 24 p.c.
lower than in 1933, less, indeed, than in
any year since 1922 ; but this does not
wholly reflect the trend of the trade, be-
cause much imported pork—some from
Australia —was “home-cured.”
Canadian and Irish imports into
Britain increased 9 p.c., but foreign
countries showed a reduction of over 12
p.c. Australia’s contribution of pork was
146,732cwt., compared with 65,000cwt.
in 1933. This is a fleabite, and even
the Commerce Department admits that
the “standard is not yet generally satis-
factory” and the “position demands care-
ful attention.”
The department, in a recent report,
comments that: —
It is not surprising that Australian pigs
should compare unfavorably with the pigs
of other countries, such as N.Z. particularly
and S. Rhodesia, which are constantly en-
gaged in conducting tests, trials and
demonstrations in their attempts to find
the most suitable and profitable breeds,
types and methods.
Why, only the Commerce Department
(“Land” continued on page 24.)


i N
%
r-j / .
s
fT/ien s/jeep
are losing condition
L]? ( \d[V
iw.
-=3>
It
A c
«Bf>
FEED
REASON 1
REASON 2
MEGGITTS AT ONCE
DELAY COSTS MONEY . . .
Although the use of Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts offers the most satisfactory and also the
cheapest method of maintaining sheep under all conditions, the best results can only be
obtained when feeding is commenced immediately sheep show the effect of deterioration of
pastures.
Delayed feeding means greater financial losses from dry spells, because
results are not so satisfactory, and in the long run actually more feed is
required.
That is why a few ounces of “Meggitt’s” per head per day should be fed before sheep
lose condition on dry or sparse pastures —you will save money by doing so.
It costs only from 5d. to lOd.
per Head per Month
When there is dry pasture available, 2 ounces of “Meggitt’s” per day is sufficient, or, in the
case of lambing ewes or ewes with lambs at foot, 3 ounces to 4 ounces per day.
These rations cost 5d. to lOd. per head per month. Their use maintains sheep in
good condition, ensures better wool yields, higher lambing percentages, and better-grown
lambs. No other method of feeding can give the same results at such low cost.
#
v v
ACt'*
►V
Literature and
Ration Advice
FREE
on application.
PREPARATION for SHOW or SALE
Apart from feeding during droughts or dry spells, “Meggitt’s” is the most widely
used of all concentrates in the preparation of sheep or other stock for Show or Sale.
Its use maintains sheep in perfect health and condition, stimulating wool growth
and inducing “bloom” which cannot be obtained by any other method of feeding.
MEGGITTS
LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
Order from your local Produce Merchant, Stock and Station Agent or direct.
New South Wales: Meggitt, Limited (Head Office), Asbestos House, York Street, Sydney.
Victoria; Meggitt, Limited, Hobson’s Road, South Kensington.
Queensland: Gollin and Co. Pty., Ltd., 72 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd., St. George’s Terrace, Perth.


EVENING WEAR
THE Light welt is now correct for dress wear. For
evening, only the best is good enough, and the well-
groomed man always realises this.
This Abbey Patent Dress Shoe will certainly add to your
appearance at all social functions.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
Price 25/- Better Quality 45/-
Uave you had a copy of our latest Illustrated Catalogue yet? If not,
write at once. l’ost free on request. Also ask for a Bottle of
Meltonian Cream, the«correct dressing for Patent Shoes. Price 1/-.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.” W.A. 29.
■'O
5*15
TirHOME'TBAIN
Work over for the day, man and
maid, young and old are intent
upon “getting home.” All day they
have been concerned with business,
mostly someone else's business, for the
majority of the homeward-bound
travellers are salary or wage earners.
Have they—have you —found
time for personal business? Have
you made the same wise provisions
for your own financial needs that,
as a matter of course, and of sound
business practice, you made for
the company, department or shop
where you earn your living?
The Commonwealth Savings Bank
is open all day in City, Town,
Village and Country Post Office,
and its convenient services are
therefore easily available to all.
Opening a Savings Bank account
and using it—costs little time
and no money, and it will pay you
well in the long run.
commonuiEfliiH
snumes briik
OF nUSTRRLIR
TflE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
1
ts
nuA
Fortnightly Sailings
via
M
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
17 (ieor«:e St., Sydney. ,VJ William St., Mellioui-iu
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers* Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
can know. Are Australians incapable of
carrying out the same tests and improve-
ments? If the department would get the
British buyers together, ask them to lay
out firm specifications as to type, size,
treatment and flesh features, and use the
information thus gained as an export
grading basis, our trade might get ahead
a lot faster.
Wheat Quality.
“Hortus”: The report on samples
tested by English expert Kent-Jones
reads well for N.S.W. Growers must
take note, however, that his opinion is
based on a baking test. Milling qualities
are not taken into account.
None of the “strong” wheats (N.S.W.)
submitted had been seen before in Eng-
land. The first “strong” samples were
mainly Pusa 4 (“very good”). The second
(“excellent like Manitoba”) and third
(“stiff and stable for the strength”) con-
tained a mixture of Pusa 4, Carrabin,
Florence and Gullen. The “medium
strong” Dundee and Baringa were dis-
tinctly above the average seen in Eng-
land. Dundee is worth concentrating on.
It comes from a good family. It was
evolved by crossing Hard Federation on
Cleveland, and then, crossing the pro-
geny with Sands.
Hard Federation is a selection from
Federation, and is believed to be the
product of a natural cross (Cowra Ex-
periment Farm). Hard Federation’s non-
bleaching and superior flour qualities
have brought it into much favor with
millers.
Of course, Federation is the direct
result of Farret’s attempts to produce
“short-straw wheat,” especially suited to
Australian methods of harvesting with a
stripper. Dundee inherits this short-straw
quality of the Federation type, and also
the smut-resistance of the Cleveland
wheat.
Harvest results show it to be a heavy
grain-yielder. Especially is this the case
in the western and north-western portions
of the wheat belt. And it is a good com-
mercial grain. Some have found that
Dundee is inclined to throw back. This
must be watched, for the expert’s analysis
is worth studying;
Dundee has high protein content, good
maltose figures, excellent dough stability
and general strength better than the
average Plate wheat. It is really pleasing,
although a little harsh and stiff in the
dough.
Seeing that the baking test is the only
one used on the other side, it’s time
Australian show societies started con-
sidering this method in their wheat judg-
ing. If this test is not feasible for show
competition purposes, observations prob-
ably could be made after examination by
mechanical dough-testing.
Hints for the Farm.
“The Bushie”: Rub kerosene over the
nose, between the lips and under the
jaw of a bereaved ewe, then over the
back, butt and belly of an orphaned
lamb. The ewe will generally be de-
ceived and take the orphan for her own.
Where sheep are run in an open pad-
dock it pays to tie the ewe up for half-
an-hour to ensure that she becomes used
to the adoption.
“Geedee”: In light mallee country
subject to drifting when cultivated, try
ploughing m the stubble. The straw
helps to bind the soil and builds up a
stable surface.
“Kelpie”: Breeding ewes with de-
formed udders and large teats should be
rigorously culled from the flock. Though
they may produce a lamb successfully,
in many cases the lamb is unable to
suckle owing to the size of the teats.
“Zedo”; In growing kurrajongs the
main thing is to give young plants a
good start and not to move them too
soon. Sow in rows, and be sijre the seed
is ripe. Don’t attempt to transplant for
three years, and then take a good deal of
soil with the lift, making sure that the
taproot is not injured,
“X.T.”: A good bacon cure for the
tropics: One pound salt to every 201 b.
pork, mixed with lib. brown sugar and
41b. saltpetre. The mix must be thorough,
and special care must be taken to get the
pickle well into the joints through in-
cisions. Within 24 hours, drain off any
brine formed, and repeat the rubbing in
and draining daily for three weeks.
Finally, dry and smoke.
“Little”; To give anew lease of life
to a wornout plough axle and wheel-
box, wind long horsehair round the
axle in the same direction as the wheel
turns, starting at the shoulder, or thick
end of the axle, and working out to the
point. Use considerably more hair at
the shoulder, where the axle needs to be
much thicker. Now bind the hair firmly
crosswise with string. Put on as much
oil as the hair will hold and work on
the wheel carefully. The tighter it fits
the better. The revolving wheel will
work the hair into a solid bearing, which
will stand a year’s wear.
“Valerin”: The best way to get rid of
foxes is to destroy harbor, such as hollow
trees, logs, burrows and stunted bushes.
Poison with crystal strychnine finely
powdered ; put into each bait as, much
as will lie on the small blade of a pen-
knife. Baits must be small and buried
just beneath the surface of the soil at
intervals of about 150 yards. Do not
allow the hands to touch the bait. Young
rabbit, sheep’s liver, parrots and small
birds chopped into small bits make tempt-
ing baits. Fat is unsatisfactory. For a
trail, use a sheep’s paunch, and make it
late in the afternoon.
“Granova”: Clean yards, scalded
tools disinfected frequently while the job
is on and sprayed lambs make for few
marking losses. After yarding allow the
lambs time to cool down. Swab the
wounds with 8 p.c. phenol in fish oil to
prevent fly strike. This year extra pre-
cautions must be taken, as I have seen
unmarked lambs flyblown. Finish the
job early in the afternoon to give the
ewes time to sort out their lambs before
sundown.
“Zedo”; A useful formula: Dressed
weight of a beast equals two-thirds of
the product of the girth behind the
shoulders, squared, multiplied by five times
the back length from shoulder-blade
front to tail bone. Measurements are in
feet, result in pounds. Thus the weight
of a bullock, 7ft. girth by 6ft. length,
equals 49 by 30 by two-thirds equals
9801 b. A small marginal allowance
needs to be made for very fat and very
lean stock.
“The 0.D.”: The value of early strains
of sub. clover in low-rainfall districts
where mid-season strains do not thrive
cannot be over-emphasised. Pastures can
be established as late as the end of May.
Early strains have proved successful in
districts of from Sin. to 20in. rainfall.
They are valuable in producing early
feed, and have been seen 6in. to Sin.
high by the following March. In the
hot weather they are supplemented by
the natural trefoils.
“W.D.Mc.”; Tell “A.G.R ” (B.
22/4/’36) that dairy inspector at Warwick
(Q.) wasn’t first in with the pumpmg-up
cure for failing quarters in cows. I used
it more than 20 years ago, and I
was not the owner either. I first saw
it tried when a Gippsland farmer had a
cow with three quarters attacked with
milk fever. After he applied the usual
treatment and pumped one quarter up,
he was surprised to find that the
lost quarter had been restored. I
would not say that the method is 100
p.c. effective, because cows lose quarters
from all sorts of causes. But in cases
where the quarters just fade away it is
well worth trying. In my experience the
best time to treat the cow is before
calving.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How do the principal sheep-dips for flies
act ? Are they repellent to the fly or do they
kill the fly or its eggs ? (2) In any dips repel-
lent to flies, what chemicals are used ? Any
other chemicals that are repellent to flies or
other insects? (3) Are there any that kill flies
or eggs on contact ? What chemicals are
chiefly used? Any other chemicals that will kill
flies or other insects or their eggs by contact
with them ? (4) Would these chemicals act the
same with other insects under similar con-
ditions as they do with blowflies ? Are there
any chemicals that kill or are repellent to other
insects and have no effect on blowflies ? Books
on the subject ? —-1289.
(1) Dips are not used to control blowfly
strike. They are essentially used to treat lice
and tick. Jetting with an arsenical preparation
(calcium arsenite) is useful in blowfly control.
There is some degree of repellent action
against the flies, and the developing larvae are
destroyed by the ingestion of the arsenic de-
posited in the fleece and skin. Arsenic in the
strength and in the manner used in this pro-
cess does not destroy blowfly eggs. Arsenic, •
if used at minimum strength (0.4 p.c.), i.e.,
double-dipping strength, has a preventive
effect against fly strike. (2) Actual repellents
which ward off flics and prevent them laying
their eggs are few. Carbon tetrachloride, iodo-
form, Margosa oil, oil of wintergreen, oil of
American wormwood act mildly. There are
other drugs which have from time to time
been tested, but their effect is slight and casual.
(3) Any poison which will kill blowflies or
render infertile blowfly eggs on contact would
not be practicable as a dressing for animals.
(4) A good pamphlet is "The Sheep Blowfly
Problem in Australia,” Report No. i, published
by the C.S.I.R. It may be obtained from the
Under-Secretary of the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department, price Is. 6d.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip anil Voting Streets, Sydney
I
Hi
yWm.
u
111
Mini
rm
111
i
lIIIW
•If
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Gril!
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“METROPOLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
56363 (A lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“A woman’s hat may be shaped to look like
anything.” —Fashion note.
Except, of course, a hat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘ln every civilised country in the world a
record is kept of the number of cases of
drunkenness that occur,’ says a lecturer.”
Statist-hics.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Serious Miners Strike.” — “Courier-Mail.”
But it’s when the frivolous ones strike
that trouble is likely to start.
4* 4 4 4*
“ ‘Many girls nowadays make a living on
hush money,’ says police chief.”
Silence is golden.
4* 4 4 'l*
“Leather coat for sale, suitable for lady
double breasted.” — Advt.
Possibly they don’t mean exactly that.
“An please make me good! This is Bobby Jones
signin' off. I'll be on the air again at ha-past
seven to-morrer night."
“In some islands in the Pacific fish are used
as currency.”— Oddity.
The one that got away is probably
the first prize in their local lottery.
4- *l* -I- 4-
“ ‘Old maids’ opinions are invariably very
wise,’ says a writer.”
But men still prefer the views of
flappers.
4* 4* HE* 4*
“A man who is now a very earnest clergy-
man was one of the wildest gamblers when he
served with the A.I.F.”— “D.T.”
A Minister of the Crown and Anchor.
4- -I- 4-
“ ‘Coarse yarns are in good demand,’ says
a financial paper.”
Well, the celluloid czars would give us
Mae West!
“Butcher fined for illicit betting.”— “Sun.”
He probably found that his stakes
worked out tougher than he ever dreamed
of.
4* *l* 4* 4*
“There is plenty of action in ‘The Walking
Dead.’ ” —Talkie critic.
Which is more than we can say about
the galloping dead.
“Famous jazz-band conductor retires.
—News item.
Too late!—the damage has been done,
"b 'h
“Meteorologist declared bankrupt.
—News item.
Didn’t save for a rainy day, evidently.
*J* *J*
These avenues of peace explored by
diplomats appear to be lined with sour-
apple trees.
4* *F
“ ‘Can anyone recommend a cure for chap-
ping?’ asks a woman correspondent.
Yes —keep away from them.
•|«
Another Crisis.
“A junior municipal clerk at Oldham (Eng.)
was suspended because he refused to feed
goldfish, considering the duty incompatible with
his dignity. A Labor M.P. will urge the
Government to delete the suspension.”
—Cable item.
Continuing the debate in the Lords on
the bill to reinstate Montmorency Fitz-
giggle, Lord Jiggletosh (Con.) said that
if was a damnable thing that a youth,
fresh, perhaps, from the playing fields
of Eton, which, as their Lordships knew,
was the battleground on which all the
Empire’s wars were won (hear! hear!),
should be subjected to the absurd indig-
nity of having to fill the Town Clerk's
inkwell. The job was distinctly menial,
and certainly not compatible with the
4in. stiff collar, cutaway coat, morning
trousers, silk hat and lemon gloves
which tradition prescribed for his chosen
profession
The Archbishop of York said that,
with the exception of the rather strong
adjective, he would support, in toto,
his Lordship’s remarks. England would
need its Montmorency Fitzgiggles —
need them for the world war to enforce
collective security, a war which would
not only be just but necessary.
Lord Whoosthis drew the attention
of their Lordships to the sensational
disclosure in the “Daily Herald” that the
victim of this manifest injustice and vin-
dictiveness had previously applied for
an assistant. It was time something was
done to scotch the
slave - driving
methods adopted by
some employers.
The Government
spokesman, Lord
Shilley-Shalley, said
he was glad to learn
the views of their
Lordships, but there
was no need for
panic. In the face
of a tremendous
clamor for action
the Government was
calm. He denied
that there had been
a Cabinet crisis on
the question. It was
true that the Foreign
Secretary had incon-
tinently left a meet-
ing of the Commit-
tee of Thirteen that
was still discussing
the possibility of
sanctions against a
certain late aggres-
sor, and that the
Prime Minister had
cancelled his vaca-
tion, but this was no
indication of any-
thing unusual. He
would assure their Lordships that if any
serious developments occurred he would
take the House into his confidence. He
would give the lie to rumors that the
Government’s position was in any way
imperilled, and would not at present go
beyond saying that a White Paper was
being prepared.
S. W. K.
Catching That Cold.
“ ‘There are many ways of catching a cold,’
says a medical writer.”
As a professional, there is one method
I have found unfailing. It is to stay out
so late that the wife will lock you out;
subsequent slumber on the dew-soaked
grass till the milkman’s arrival will do
the rest.
"Whash’ll I lelly’r wife?"
“Teller I’m home in bed an’ she mush’n' dishturb me
when she comes inf"
The uses of a cold are various. Some
people only catch them so that they may
skite about the severity of - them. These
people are bores. Others, more sensible,
make use of colds.
“I must have a whisky (or rum),” they
say, “for my cold.”
That excuse goes even with the missus.
I know one man who keeps a cold going
right through the winter, and has a devil
of a job getting rid of it even by mid-
summer.
There are other uses. For dodging the
boring type of social engagement it is a
winner.
A good cold will also help you to get
to the football match when, say, the wife's
relatives are due for the day. “Standing
in the sun will do my cold good,” you
aver. So you go out and stand in the
mud, and if you are an expert like me
you catch a fresh cold, which might get
you a holiday from the office.
Well, the rum season approaches, so
to-morrow morning I’ll go out and get
the paper from the wet lawn in my bare
feet.
H. M.
•J*
Hail—and Farewell.
He was a successful businessman, and
after eight years of absence was alight-
ing at the station of the old town. De-
spite his expectations, there was no one
on the platform whom he knew. No one.
Discouraged, he sought out the station-
master, a friend since boyhood. To him
at least he would be welcome.
The successful businessman was about
to extend a hearty greeting when the
other spoke first.
“Hullo, George!” he said. “GoiiT
away?”
Orient.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XIV. — Some Odd Bits of S.A.
There are many odd corners of South
Australia that the unthinking tourist may
find himself taken to if he once lets th.
Tourist Bureau get hold of him.
For example, Kangaroo Island, so-
called because it would be an ideal
place for kangaroos if they could
be induced to settle there. And
Victor Harbor, where the only tramcaf
horse in captivity (excluding piecart
neddies) keeps a good engine out of a
job—its vehicle, by the way, forming an
excellent roosting-place for late birds
locked out of their
boarding-houses.
Then there’s Lake
Cadi barra wirra-
canna, which has no
attractions at all ex-
cept the possibility
of writing to one’s
friends therefrom
and placing the name
in the top right-hand
corner of the first
sheet or (if small
notepaper is used) of
the first two sheets.
And, of course,
there’s Mt. Gambier
and the Gordon
country —not the gin
Gordons, but the
Adam Lindsay
variety. Here, one
may see the identical
pub from which A.L.
was returning when
he requested Ned to
lift him down once
more and lay him in
the shade, while, for
a small considera-
tion, the publican
will produce the
identical saddle in
which Ned held him
when he swayed.
The landlord will,
however, indignantly
deny that it was in his hostelry that Gor-
don was moved to remark that the beer
was mostly froth and bubble.
“Must’ve bin some other pub,” he’ll
probably say.
Whilst in the Gordon country the tour-
ist will find it impossible to get out of
looking at the lakes, and while he’s look-
ing at them it’s a thousand to one he’ll
be told the Blue Lake is bottomless, the
water being kept in position by the gravi-
tational pull of the moon.
“If he doesn’t believe it,” say the
natives, “let him put on his bathing togs
and try it.”
On one occasion two young men set
out to disprove the claim. Attired in
the most modern diving-suits procurable,
and with a couple of bottles of oxygen
apiece, they descended into the lake.
They were never seen again !
Rumor has it that one of them came
up through a volcano in a Pacific island,
where the natives painted him green and
set him up as an idol, but the story lacks
confirmation.
Regarding the other adventurer even
Dame Rumor is almost silent, though
there are several people in Mt. Gambier
who look very knowing when mention is
made of the Loch Ness monster.
Who knows? Jasby.
Invitation Declined.
You toss your head that / might note
The golden glory of your hair.
To draw attention to your throat
On silver cord a gem you wear.
Your eyes meet mine and then are veiled
By lashes sweeping, long and black,
And I, thus suasively assailed.
Get pins and needles down my hack.
I feel emotion in me stir,
But rapidly the tumult calms.
So, lady, will you not confer
On someone else your wilful charms ?
Though chance makes you my vis-a-vis
You’ll find in me a problem tough.
Because, my sweet, ’twixt you and me,
1 have a wife —and one’s enough !
P. O. M. C.
Habit.
Tears nearly came .to the eyes of de-
voted young Mrs. Gutter as she watched
her beloved Edward gulping the pudding
into which she had put so much of her
painfully acquired knowledge. He never
passed one complimentary remark.
“Edward,” she faltered, “do you like
the pudding?”
Edward started, and then, with a far-
away look in his eyes, began:
“This pudding, my dear, is more than
a pudding ; it is the culmination of a
stupendous success achieved by combin-
ing science with culinary art. Rich in
nutritive values, containing the purest in-
gredients, its glorious flavor lingers :
although inexpensive, it is crisp, a dish
fit for a king. Don’t forget, these pud-
dings are obtainable only from Mrs.
Edward Guffer, Bunkydoo-avenue, Blurb-
ville, in all sizes”
A stifled sob from his spouse brought
Edward, the wireless announcer, back to
earth with a jerk.
D. McM.
Ordeal.
Ah, me! If I had only known!
How well I might have spared my soul
The burning grief that made me groan
The night we shared the festive howl!
If I had only known that you,
Averse to gay and jovial kicks.
Would mag that long, long evening
through
Of nothing else but politics!
T. W. N.


Fine Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:—
THE
BRIDLE TRUCK
By J.J. HARDIE.
Chapter XXV. —( Continued ).
SHE plunged hurriedly toward her room, leaving
Bill staring thunderstruck after her. He walked
slowly to his own room and sat heavily on the
edge of the bed, where he remained deep in gloomy
thought till the hum of a distant car reminded him
of the business on hand. It occurred to him that he
had eaten nothing since midday, but his hunger had
faded in the face of this latest complication.
He opened a drawer and took out a heavy .45
Webley revolver, contemplated it grimly for a few
seconds, then thrust it back and shut the drawer. The
policeman could use his if it was needed ; all lie wanted
was to get his bare hands on someone and work off
the fierce, conflicting emotions that he felt he could
repress no longer.
To hell with all women!
He strode across to the yards as the headlights
of the approaching car turned the corner of the home-
stead and cut a white swathe in the night. As the
mounted constable got out of the car a grim-faced
horseman leading a spare horse circled the path of
the lights, urging the frightened horses toward him.
Within a few minutes the rhythmic beat of the horses
hooves died away in the darkness.
The rain started shortly after midnight, lightly
at first in scattered drops that gradually increased to
a steady downpour. Elaine peered anxiously into the
darkness beyond the verandah for the
hundredth time, and was on the point of
turning back in desperation to the lighted
room when a dog barked resentfully. She
threw a quick glance at the clock on the
dressing-table—only ten past three! —she
seemed to have been alone for ages! Then
she hurried to the kitchen to put more
wood on the fire before returning to her
patient.
Bill stepped cautiously on to the
verandah, where a hurricane-lamp stood
lighted at the door of his room. His
sodden shirt was plastered flat on his
chest and stained with blood that still
trickled from a gash on one cheekbone.
He stooped to remove his squelching
boots, the spurs hidden under the accu-
mulation of clinging mud, and emptied
the water out of them. He stiffened
alertly at the sound of hurrying footsteps,
and next instant' Elaine appeared, hasten-
ing toward him. He stared in amazement
tinged with fear and foreboding. Her
features were drawn and her eyes des-
perate as she grasped his mud-spattered
arm.
“Come quick, Bill!” she implored.
“Daddy’s awfully ill!”
Bill followed with an access of re-
morse. In his haste he had forgotten to
give the morphine before he left. He
threw a swift, contrite glance at the
patient shifting restlessly in the grip of
delirium, and hastened to the brown tube
of pellets and the little plated case on
the dressing-table. He motioned to
Elaine, anxiously soothing the restless
figure, and she set her lips tightly and
held the thin, emaciated arm for him, her
eyes avoiding the shining needle.
Slowly but steadily the drug took
effect, the fevered lips ceased their mean-
ingless babble, and the wasted, yellow
features relaxed in sleep.
The girl’s face was lined with ex-
haustion ; there were dark shadows under
the heavy-lidded eyes, and her disordered
hair looked dull and lifeless, without a hint of the soft
golden sheen that usually radiated from it. Her head
lifted with apparent effort, and her tired eyes opened
wide as they took in the unkempt figure opposite.
She rose unsteadily to her feet and faltered; “Bill,
oh, Bill, you’re hurt!”
She came round to him and cautiously touched
the gashed cheek, at the same time realising that he
was soaked to the skin. Bill raised his hand to his
cheek and stared stupidly at the blood on it.
“It’s all right!” he mumbled. “I’ll put some
iodine on it.”
Elaine mustered the remnants of her ebbing
strength and faced him with a show of firmness.
“I’m going to get some hot water to bathe it,
then you’ll get out of those wet clothes and get some
sleep.”
“I’ll bathe it —and you are going to get some
sleep right away!”
She dissented desperately. “I’m going to stay
here and watch.”
“You’ll do nothing of the kind! I'll stay —he
may want the needle again.”
Her head drooped, she swayed with fatigue and
mental strain. She couldn’t argue—the words would
not come, but she made a last stubborn appeal.
“Will you promise to call me in two hours?"
“I’ll call you when you’re needed!” he answered
gruffly, turning aside before he succumbed to ihe
desire to put his arms round the tired shoulders and
comfort her.
She rested a hand on his arm with a wan, be-
seeching smile. “Bill, I didn’t mean what I said to-
night! Ido need you! We couldn’t do without
you, and I don’t want you to go! Will you forgive
me?”
He nodded desperately, holding himself rigid
against the surging impulse, the flood of incoherent
words that crowded to his tight-pressed lips. She
paused in the doorway, clinging to the side for sup-
port, and smiled happily.
“Good night, Lancelot!”
He could only nod, grim-lipped, in return.
When she had gone he stood motionless for a
long time, then he drew a long, deep breath, and a
wild, defiant gleam lit his eyes. What if she were
Mac’s girl? They weren’t engaged! She hardly ever
mentioned his name. Anyhow, Mac had had plenty
of time to win her if he had only gone about it
properly. Why should he stand back and crush his
own feelings in the dust? All’s fair in love and war!
He became suddenly aware of the pools of mois-
ture dripping from his clothes to the carpet; with a
final glance at the sleeping patient, he moved softly
to his room to change.
The first long, slanting beam of the morning sun
crept through the window of the sick room like a
sword challenging the garish yellow lamplight. Bill
forced his reluctant eyelids open, afraid to move in
the big armchair because of the multitude of aches
that cramped his limbs. There was a crick in his
neck, his gashed cheek ached and throbbed, and every
muscle in his body felt stiff and sore. The rain had
gone. The sky was clear, and the air clean and laden
with the warm, heavy scents offered up by a grateful
earth, while the magpies voiced their appreciation of
the morning in glorious cascades of liquid notes
against the hilarious crescendo of the kookaburras.
Bill glanced keenly at the patient and his face
turned grave. He had had to repeat the morphine,
but it was evident from the twitching nerves that it
was losing its effect. There was something about the
patient, too, that he had never noticed before. Great
sunken hollows above the temples, the nostrils were
pinched and thin, and the skin had a transparent,
ethereal quality that brought him to his feet to peer
closely at the sleeper with fear in his eyes. He lived—
but in a world of pain. Bill sat down and gave way
to a flood of dark, rebellious thoughts.
The patient was doomed. He knew it himself,
and the doctors knew it, yet they must still allow him
to linger on in increasing agony till the rapacious
fingers of the gnawing monster within him reached
a vital spot and ended the chapter. And this was
civilisation! Why, even a blackfellow was more
humane! Man took upon himself the right to put
ailing and diseased animals quickly out of their
misery, and called it a humane act. Yet he persisted
in keeping his doomed fellow-humans alive to the
bitter end, torturing not only the victim but all who
loved him and were forced to suffer every spasm of
the drawn-out, hopeless struggle.
A surge of passionate revolt swept over him, and
he rose to his feet, imbued with a grim resolve to go
to town and drag the doctor out by force if necessary.
He was seated alone at breakfast, when Elaine
came in. Her eyes were heavy with fatigue, but she
threw him an accusing smile.
“Bill, why did you let me sleep so
long?”
“I slept most of the time myself.”
“I don’t believe you!” She became
serious again. “How do you think he is
this morning?”
“I don’t know. I’m going in to see
the doctor.”
“I’m glad! I rang and rang to try
to get him last night, but I couldn’t
even raise the exchange. It was awful! ”
“You poor kid!” He spoke softly.
Elaine looked swiftly at him. Then she
dropped her eyes to her plate and spoke
hurriedly. “I don’t know what the road
will be like after the rain. You’ll prob-
ably need chains. Do you think you'll
be all right?”
“I’ll try not to hit any stumps this
time.”
She laughed with a tinge of the old
gaiety. “I’m sorry, Lancelot, I didn't
mean that. But hadn’t you better take
someone —you have all those gates to
open and you may get stuck?”
“I’m taking Percy. He’s over teuing
Mac about last night.”
She leaned across with a quickening
of interest.
“Oh, tell me what happened! I was
so worried last night I quite forgot to
ask.”
“We got him.”
“Who was it?”
“Williams!’”
She gasped incredulously. “Mr. Wil-
liams, who was overseer here! But how
—I mean, how did you know he would
come last night?”
“Well, to start at the beginning, Mac
suspected him first, then when I could
find no tracks to show where the sheep
had been taken away I got Percy down.
He’s the best tracker I ever met. As
soon as we got out to the back of that
rough paddock he dropped on to things
straight away, and we could see that who-
ever did the job knew more than a little
about sheep—and sheep-stealing.”
“But how did he steal them?” she interrupted
impatiently.
“In a big lorry fitted with two decks like a sheep
truck. He drove in off the main road through Kelly’s
selection, and turned off it to your boundary fence,
driving along the foot of the hills ; it isn’t far, and
he laid down wide planks to drive over and cover his
tracks. The lorry was backed against the boundary
fence with the tailboard resting on the fence posts,
then he built a long, sloping ramp of planks from the
tailboard to a horizontal bar lashed between two small
trees, and more planks from there to the ground. He
spread a big tarpaulin there and strung a rope fence
round it from tree to tree, like a drover’s sheep-break,
with wings running out at the back.
“After we had found how they went we had to
discover where they were taken to and how they were
disposed of. Percy tracked the lorry out to the main
road but lost it there. However, we knew from the
size of the tyres that it was a big truck, and the police
tried to trace it through the district registrations but
Our New Serial
Commencing Nexl Week
“THE PAPUAN”
By Monte Holcroft
This serial, the fourth resulting from the 1935 Prior
Memorial Competition, is totally unlike any of the three
which have preceded it.
The author deals with the power of solitude and inner
forces to bring out the worst and best in men and
women, and he develops this theme with an insight
and intensity that make the story live.
The characters that count in the story are Murdoch,
Resident Commissioner, who has been so long in Papua
that the place has got into his blood; Burnley, an anthro-
pologist, and Joyce Manson, a woman doctor who goes
to Papua for experience—and gets it.


with no luck. Anyhow, I decided to take a long shot,
so Percy turned up at Williams’s place pushing a bike.
Williams was shearing at the time, and Percy got a
job mustering and doing odd jobs round the shearing-
shed.
“He used to ring me up fairly often, and one
of his first discoveries was that Williams’s sheep had
the same earmark as Camelot, but he used a different
tar brand. Yours is a U, his brand is a square with
a dot in it; it is the easiest thing in the world to fake
that. I thought we had him till I discovered some of
the queer stock laws you have in this State. I found
that Williams was fully entitled to that registered ear-
mark ; his property is in a different pastoral district,
so Williams must* have discovered the fact that it was
the same earmark as Camelot’s, and bought the place
while he was here. (He’s clever, all right!
“Then one day. Percy picked up the track of
a big lorry—the same tracks that'he had seen here —
and he followed them- to a sort of outstatipn at the
back of Williams’s place. A boundary-rider dived
there, and Percy found that he used -to work here in
Williams’s, time, j This chap told him Williams had
bought the big lorry from a carrier who went broke,
and he only used it occasionally. It was not regis-
tered. Yesterday evening I got a ring from Percy
to say the lorry had arrived at the homestead and
was being fitted with high sides. You’ll remember
it was a dark night with rain threatening, so if they
could only get the job done in time their tracks would
be washed out and no one would be any the wiser.
“I got the local policeman on the ’phone, and
he came out straight away. The sergeant and another
policeman picked up Percy in their car, and he brought
them along in the tracks of the lorry. When Jones
and 1 got to the hill above the creek the lorry was
in position and one man was fixing up the ramp. We
waited till another man arrived with a mob of sheep,
the man walking in front and the dog bringing the
sheep along behind him, covering his tracks.”
He paused reflectively. “I wonder how it is that
fellows who go in for sheep-steal-
ing or cattle-duffing always have
champion dogs or horses. They
seem to have a special gift for
training them—and they’re nearly
all fine fellows to meet!”
Elaine eyed him blandly.
“You must have picked up a few
cattle belonging to other people
in your time, Bill! ”
His drooping eyelid flickered
slightly. “I’m a drover!” he re-
plied dryly.
“H’m-m-m!” There was a
twinkle in her eye. “Droving in
Queensland appears to be rather
a comprehensive business! But
what happened when the sheep
arrived?”
“They switched a spotlight
on the ramp —sheep will always
travel toward a light at night— ,
and started to run them up into
the lorry. We took advantage of
the noise to creep down close, and
I circled round to the other side.
1 was dead scared that dog would
spot me, but he was too busy with
the sheep. Then when I was
ready we just bailed them up;
there were only the two of them,
Williams and his boundary-rider.
Then the other car turned up and
they took them away, and Percy
and I rode home in the rain.”
She looked thoughtfully
across the corner of the table at
the man casually rolling a cigar-
ette. “Bill,” she said slowly, “I’m
not going to try to thank you
formally for all you’ve done for us, because anything
I could say wouldn’t express half of what I feel.”
“It’s quite all right,” he broke in diffidently. “I
don’t like putting a man behind the bars, but, in this
case, if I hadn’t he might have tried to pinch my
sheep—well, Mac’s sheep!” He corrected himself
hurriedly as though he resented the connection of his
name with sheep.
“Bill, 1 would like to do something for Percy.
Can you suggest anything I could give him—anything
he would like?”
He brushed aside the idea. “Percy enjoyed it
as much as I did. If you offered to pay him he’d
be insulted. He’d most likely think you looked on
him as a policeman!”
“But I mean it, Bill,” she protested firmly. “Not
necessarily money but a gift of some sort.”
He studied her a moment. “Til tell you what
he would like,” he ventured. “You know that good
sort of a grey mare he rode?”
“If Percy will accept her she’s his!”
“He’ll be the happiest man this side of Borro-
loola!”
She was rising from the table when a thought
stayed her, and she scrutinised the strip of plaster
on the man’s cheek with a puzzled air. “Bill,” she
queried, “did those two men give in without a struggle
last night?” ' •
He looked sharply at her. “Why, what makes
you think” —-—
“How did you get that cut on your face?”
He hesitated, then with a casual, apologetic look
he replied; “Oh, Williams made a bit of a rush-
tried to get away in the dark, and I tackled him. He
got a bit wild, and”—— He peered out of the window,
his eyes darkening. “Well, he called me something
I don’t take from anyone, and had a crack at me,
and I tore into him till the policeman hopped over
and stopped it. Then we slung him into the car.”
“I’m sorry, Bill! Better let the doctor have a
look at it.”
She walked through to the sick room, thinking
deeply over the sudden transformation in the man’s
expression. It seemed ludicrous to imagine Bill getting
worked up merely because someone abused him in
a heated moment. Still, there it was.
; - - Chapter XXVI.
ON the way to town Bill had little opportunity
for letting his thoughts dwell on his personal
problems. The task of keeping the car on the
soft, slippery road called for the full concentration
of his faculties, and he pulled up in front of the
doctor’s residence feeling absolutely frazzled. The
doctor was out, but might be back at any moment, so
Bill took the opportunity to walk down the street
for a much-needed drink.
The handful, of men in the bar were eagerly dis-
cussing the news that had put the little town in the
headlines,'and when someone recognised Bill a hush
fell on the group and all eyes turned on him. He
signed to Percy, and they finished their drinks and
returned to the street with a feeling that if he read
local sympathies correctly no jury in this town would
ever convict Williams. Bill was not worrying about
Williams —now that the matter had been cleared up
he would have been just as pleased if Williams had
been set free —but the looks that had been cast on
him in the bar riled him. They seemed to regard him
as a police pimp.
The doctor’s car was drawn up behind their mud-
spattered vehicle and he met them in the hall looking
more weary and haggard than ever. He seemed to
have shrunk to such an extent that his clothes looked
as though they had been made for someone twice his
weight. His bloodshot eyes glared at the plaster on
his visitor’s cheek.
“Are you a patient or have you come to waste
more of my time?” he demanded, pushing Bill into
the surgery, “Let’s have a look at it.” Without
further warning he flicked the plaster off, and before
Bill had recovered from his surprise was poking at
“When I was ready we just bailed them up.”
the cut with a pudgy finger, “I’ll put a stitch in that
—see that you keep it clean! How’s Mr, Atherton?
“Pretty bad! Can you come?”
The doctor interrupted gruffly. “I can’t come to
see him, so don’t waste your breath asking me! Even
if he lived across the street instead of half a day s
journey away I couldn’t help him. As it is, practi-
cally the entire town and district has ’flu—the hospital
is jambed full, with only two tired-out probationers
left to run the place; and now the other doctor has
gone down with it and Fm left to carry the lot. Id
give my entire hopes of the hereafter for a decent
night’s sleep! Keep your head still, will Y ou ! ,
“But can’t you do anything, man? He s suffering
hell, and the morphine doesn’t seem to act any longer.
The doctor opened a little drawer in a cabinet,
picked out a thin, brown tube and examined it cate-
fully before handing it over.
“Use these, then. They’re twice as strong as the
others. One of these”—he threw him a significant
elance—“would be enough to kill the average man.”
~ Bill looked dumbly at the tube in his hand, then
he looked at the doctor with a steely glint in his eye.
“If I ever get what Atherton’s sufferihg from and
haven’t the strength to put a bullet into myself I
hope I’ll find a mate to do it for me! Then, I sup-
pose, you will call it murder and want to hang him!
Why haven’t you doctors the guts to put a man out
of misery instead of trying one thing after another
to keep him alive when life is only a burden to him?”
“I suppose you think you’re the first man to get
that wonderful, original idea! Damn it, man, that
subject has been discussed by every quack since
Aesculapius!”
“And you’re just as far from a solution now as
he ever was! We pride ourselves on our civilisation—
and let men doomed to certain death linger on till
the pain wrecks them physically, then wrecks their
intellect and robs fine, decent men of a respectable
death. If we ordinary bushwhackers find a'horse or
a bullock hopelessly crippled we cut its throat or put
a bullet into it and know it’s only a fair thing. Can t
you come out and see Atherton and do something—
anything ? ”
The doctor eyed him grimly. “If you’re quite
finished you can get into your car and drive home —
it will save me backing my car out from behind you.
And, listen! This is final!” He spoke with slow,
incisive deliberation, letting each word sink in with
its intended significance. “There’s only one more thing
1 can do for Mr. Atherton—that is to sign his death
certificate! And I’ll do that as soon as you give me
the hour and date. I’ve got the rest of it all filled in
ready—cause of death—all complete. There will be
no post-mortem. Good-bye!”
Bill drove silently back to Camelot. Percy talked
lightheartedly for a while, but, getting no response,
he closed down and felt glad when he had to get
out and open a gate. Bill hardly saw the road ; only
a special dispensation of Providence and the fact that
it had dried a lot since lie went in kept him on it-
His faculties were numbed—-distant—controlled not
by himself but by a grisly spectre that hovered above
and around him suggesting nameless things that froze
his brain. ’
A cheerful Elaine in a bright-colored frock
awaited him on the verandah with good news of the
patient, and during lunch Bill’s load of depression
lightened appreciably. He told her briefly that it was
impossible for the doctor to leave town on account
of the ’flu epidemic, but that he had been given fresh
instructions, which, they hoped, would help the patient
considerably. The girl listened with a preoccupied air
and made no comment.
As they moved out to the verandah Elaine men-
tioned casually: “Bob rang up this morning. His
isolation period is nearly finished.”
Bill nipped the end off his cigarette preparatory
to lighting it, and observed just as casually: “He must
be breaking his neck to get back to work again; Good
fellow, Mac!” Then he eyed her critically. “Why
are you so keen on selling Camelot?”
She non-committally. There s daddy
—and all our bad luck—and I suppose the responsi-
bflit.es are getting me down Isn tit quite natural
that 1 should want to leave? You and Bob sold your
place m Queensland. . .
That was different! We never had any intention
of making a home of it Mac only came to Queens-
land to make money, and he sort of dragged me into
it. That was bad enough, but I jibbed when he wanted
me to pick a nice, fat comfortable wife and sett
down. Settle down! He gave a snort of disgust.
Elaine laughed softly. Would it be quite impos-
sible for you to settle down she asked. .
He looked up quickly, then studied the end o
his cigarette. It depends. That s what I reckoned
then, anyhow.” He raised his head slowly and sur-
veyed hei from under the drooping lid. Do
remember that first night we met in Longieach?
She smiled reminiscently. Verily, Sir Lancelot!
“Well, Mac had been worrying me that night.
His features wore the grim look that betokened a
distasteful task that had to be faced. “It wasn’t that
I was a woman-hater—not by a long chalk—but he
didn’t approve of my girl friends and we had a bit
of an argument. Anyhow, I pulled out and told him
I was going to get a few drinks into me, go over to
the dance and ask the first girl I met to marry me.
“And was I the first?” she demanded with mock
affront “Oh, Lancelot, and you never asked me!
Why didn’t you?”
“Well, when I knocked the top off that car it
put it out of ray mind for the moment. Then, when
I got to know you better, the last thing I wanted to
do was to insult you.”
“Lancelot! That isn’t the way to insult us! Wo
poor girls look 5n it as an honor—a very rare on;
these hard times!” She rose with a laugh. “I must
go and see how daddy is.”
The man sat still, gazing dully out over the rank.
grass-grown garden. He still had not accomplished
(Continued on page 50.)


About Your Indigestion.
I
*
S'
v
u
m
INTESTINES
A
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE Painful distension of the
' stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
‘.rouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
111 The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers,
or HERE Duodenal ulcers. Excess
outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles. It acts in a
logical and common-
sense way and if you
persevere it will even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain ol
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid F'owder means another day of
unnecessary suffering fJr you.
DEWITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6
Fame for a Great Unknown Poet:—
TO BLUSH
UNSEEN
BY H.E. NOLAN
SHE diffidently opened the country
newspaper, found the piece marked
by her mother, and read:
on aday in merry may
XbS Xj3A B|T3d_[ sbav t
it said to my girl Hr
“come, SHRdlu shrdLU !!!! ETAoin
“come, dance, with your teeth of pearl”....
but she said:— 11l
“oh myhead cmfwyp
“Though recognition for this result is
given to the inherent strength of the
forces making for recovery,” says ‘S. M.
Herald,’ “due regard is also paid to the
relative stability of the foreign exchanges,
despite the alarms that had attended,
during the period, attacks on the gold cur-
rencies.”
blest if il Alint’ne ar dead
il’d bettertakeacure 11l
before an swearing your lure
Miss Gaster raised eyes appealing for
light. None came. Dazedly, she read
the poem aloud this time, down to:
“ ‘come, SHRdlu shrdLU !!!! ETAoin’ ”
A great white light burst in her brain.
She, worshipping, sank to her knees,
clasping the newspaper to her bosom.
"My God! ” she panted ; “a Genius!
Genius has blossomed, and I —l hold
the first flower here —close to my
heart!” . . .
She could not read the poem again. It
hurt as only incomprehensible beauty
can. Feeling utterly lost, she wandered
about her arcade shop (“ye arte moderne,
mile gaster, convenor”) , . . She found
herself reading again the letter her mother
had sent with the “Wallabinga Times”:
“ I don’t like you living with thai
rout of unwashed maniacs and child-
minds. Bohemians indeed ! They are not
fit companions for an unmarried girl like
you approaching the strenuous forties.
Come home. I wish your Aunt Letitia
had left her money to a cats’ home, as
she always threatened to, God rest her!
instead of to you. You’d still be here
in Wallabinga. I received that book you
sent for my birthday, ‘poignant poems in
puce, by claxton standwell’—a pity the
Depression has hit the printer so badly
that he couldn’t afford capital letters.
Why do you waste pounds importing such
nonsense? We publish stuff just as good
in the ‘Times’ at fourpence a week. I’ll
send you a copy and mark the poem.”
Well, Miss Gaster had read it, and
forgave her mother everything, even her
tendency to always laugh at her.
«UTHY, Miss Gaster!” exclaimed Pro-
” fessor Exliss Buldorp, as she drifted
unannounced into his green-and-purple
study. Hastily he dropped into the w.p.b.
the Wordsworth he had been surrep-
titiously glorying in. Apprehensively he
watched her standing gauntly before his
desk, clutching to her breast a badly-
printed newspaper and a paper-bag. She
seemed in a trance.
“I have come,” she assured him, “like
the star to the wise men to announce
the literary birth of a great one!”
“Cheeses!” breathed the professor in
relief. She hadn’t noticed him reading
Wordsworth then. Imagine if she had,
and reported his backsliding to the
coterie! He would never live it down.
But his grim secret was still his own.
Himself again, Professor of Mixed Lan-
guages Buldorp thereafter carefully
dragged in assorted swear words to each
speech—a trait much applauded by his
female admirers.
Miss Gaster stabbed her claw into her
bag, dragged from it some torn-up paper
and flung it into the air. Amidst this
A while light burst in
her brain.
spray, she
e x claimed:
“Behold all
that is left
of my stock
of p oi 8-
nant poems
in puce ! ”
He gasp-
ed: “You
cannot have
d e s troyed
all your
crimson-
tinged clax-
ton stand-
wells? You
cannot have perpetrated such sacrilege!”
“I have torn tooth and nail every
one! Standwell no longer matters. He
is old-fashioned. Behold, a real poet.”
Tensely she knelt and pressed her news-
paper to her lips. “Listen and marvel!”
Dephlegming her throat, she read: “on
aday”....
Finishing, with emotion’s tears oozing
down her cheeks, she sobbed, “What do
you think of that?”
“My God!” moaned Professor Bul-
dorp, his eyes hopelessly on the jetti-
soned Wordsworth. “My God!”
“That’s exactly how I reacted! ”
exulted Miss Gaster.
“But —but” floundered the pro-
fessor. Then, although realising he was
risking his literary reputation, he asked
“What does it mean?”
“I don’t know —yet; but what does
that matter? I do know we have among
us at last the great Australian poet! Call
the coterie to-morrow to worship the
coming of the greatest one! Hosepipe!
—I mean Hosannah!”
She dashed out, shrilling “ ‘come,
SHRdlu shrdLU’ ”...
Professor Buldorp recovered slowly.
He dredged up his Wordsworth and
gazed long upon it. His great dry sobs
made the Wagneresque accompaniment to
which he deliberately tore it up. He
forced his maned head up. His lips re-
solved into a line of determination. He
was the city’s leader of everything ultra-
modern, and, no matter what sacrifice
of private opinion it demanded, he would
remain the leader —more, the dictator!
THERE was a burst of applause as Pro-
* fessor Buldorp quite unnecessarily in-
troduced Miss Gaster to the coterie.
They all knew Miss Gaster. In fact,
they had gone out of their way to patron-
ise her; there was no other in their
midst that merely to talk to gave them
such a pleasurable feeling of Olympic
superiority.
“The dear professor is ageing rapidly,”
whispered Aggie Silton behind bejewelled
podgy fingers. “He swore only fifteen
times, my dear, in that speech. Look!”
she added as Miss Gaster approached.
“Caster’s got anew dress! Mustard-
green with orange polka-dots! Two-and-
eleven a yard! Only a woman a quarter
her age could wear that and be for-
given ! ”
“Silence, please!” Miss Gaster im-
plored.
“Dear cat!” purred Lisbett Slulk.
“Don’t be jealous that our poor Gaster
and not you discovered the poet.”
“Before reading this gift of the gods,
I call on all to silently pray!” Miss
Gaster was clarioning. She knelt, hold-
ing aloft her newspaper.
“Anew ritual!” said Lisbett eagerly,
and was echoed round the salon. Every
knee bent.
“Isn’t it awe-full!” breathed Lisbett as
the coterie rose. “What did you pray?”
“I couldn’t think of anything except
‘God bless papa and mamma! ’ ” wheezed
Mrs. Silton. “I suppose I’m still just a
simple little child at heart! Sh! She’s
going to read it.”
For one ecstatic moment the coterie
thought Miss Gaster would faint, but she
cleared her throat and read the master-
piece.
Ending, she looked up. The coterie
was amazed to open-mouthed silence.
“Well,” she began, one hand fluttering
helplessly. “Well”
Lisbett’s smile was burgeoning into a
fiendish titter.
“On your knees!” thundered the pro-
fessor. “And thank Nature that at last a
vision of heaven has been vouchsafed.”
With the verve of old, Buldorp swear-
ingly led them through the thanksgiving.
Miss Gaster, smiling triumphantly,
was soon the centre of a milling, shouting
horde, each component frenziedly striv-
ing to salute her dress-hem.
“I was wrong,” puffed Mrs. Silton,
backing after her kiss. “I couldn’t help
feeling the quality of dear Miss Caster’s
dress. It cost at least twelve-and-eleven
a yard or I’m due for the 0.-A.P.! ”
«W HAT! ” Great Editor of
/* the not-so-great morning daily.
“No murders, Cusper?”
“Sorry. Not even one cabled,” apolo-
gised his associate.
“What then are we to give the hun-
dred thousand readers —er —buyers of
the “Daily Furphy?”
“Anew competition?”
“I’ve thought of that. Yes No!”
“Another supplement?”
“Of course, I thought of that, too.
But what subject?”
“Let’s see,” pondered Cusper. “Mon-
day is the astrological supplement;
Tuesday, postcards ; Wednes I’ve
got it, chief! We’ve never had an Aus-
tralian Literature Supplement. Couldn’t
we”
“No! ”
“Perhaps not; but it’d be something
new. Give the public something new all
the time!”
At this moment a lank-haired, dis-
hevelled figure plunged into this Inner-
most Sanctum. Unavailing hands clawed
to drag him back. The Great Editor
rose.
Ultra-modern Professor of Mixed
Languages.
“‘co me , SHR and 1 u shrdLU /! ! !
ETAoin’!” babbled the .newcomer, the
light of the seer scorching through his
hornrims.
“Cusper, who —what is this?”
“The new cadet, chief; trifle drunk, I
guess. Never thought he had it in him,
chief. He was covering old Prof. Bul-
dorp’s special salon to-night”
“ ‘il said to my girl i i i’! ” declaimed
the cadet, eagerly seizing the chance to
make an impression. “The great Un-
known Australian Poet has at last seen
print! ”
“Great Unknown Poet” Cusper
scented something. He snatched the copy


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
IHE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
\
M 3 . I
I I |/ |
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
How what? How to make a
party perfect: Get together in
a pleasantly large room a
number of young people of all
ages, distributed fairly evenly
as regards the sexes. Mix
ample quantities of VICKERS
and Vermouth and what have
you? Let the result circulate
freely and the party take its
course.
VICKERS
HU FAMOUS SINCE
U I N 1750
from the cub’s unnicotined fingers, and
conned it.
“Take him away!” howled the Great
Editor. “He’s fired! ”
“Wait, chief! Here’s what we’ve been
looking for!”
“A murder at last! I knew some-
body’d bump off old Buldorp!”
“No! He’s alive, but his coterie has
been ‘arrested amidst scenes of orgiastic
celebrations in honor of
the Great Unknown
Poef! Don’t you see! If
there is an unknown
poet, we needn’t run the
literary supplement, but
inaugurate a competition
to find him or her!”
“Of course ; I was just
planning that. Front-
page it! And run it with
some pictures of present-
day unknown poets—
The Great Editor.
Byron, Keats and those guys!”
“Will we publish any of the Unknown’s
works, chief, or wait till the Yanks syn-
dicate it and get it cheaper?”
“Wait!” roared the Great Editor.
“Anyway, no one ever reads poetry
nowadays! ”
yiSS GASTER, undecided whether to
stage a hunger-strike, finally paid her
fine and hurried out into the sunlight.
She bought a “Furphy” to read the raid
report.
Her soul groaned at what she read.
FIND THE UNKNOWN POET
COMPETITION.
New Genius Hailed.
A Great Unknown's masterpiece was
read last night by Miss Gasper at Profes-
sor Buldorp’s special salon amidst amazing
scenes of enthusiasm. The police were
called in soon after....
“Professor!” bleated Miss Gaster as
he came down the steps. “Look!”
He gloated over it. “Marvellous!
Think of the publicity”
“But,” shrieked Miss Gaster, “the
brutes have misspelt my name. Look,
Gasper in-
stead of Gas-
ter! If ever
1 meet a
p r e sshound,
I’ll”
“Miss Gas-
per,” cut in
one of five
wolf - eyed
young men
descending on
her, “give us
a statement
for exclusive
publication in
the ‘Fur-
phy’?”
Dephlegming her throat.
“Delaighted!” purred Miss Gaster.
“Where shall I stand for the pictures?”
CROM the “Furphy,” a day later (still
* no more murders):
“PROTTY! ”
Where Is the Great Unknown Poet?
For two days this progressively great
journal, the mouthpiece of our great Aus-
tralian Literature, has been searching for
“Protty,” as we have chosen to call the
“Great Unknown Poet Protege.” From
all over Australia we have received clues
that, it was alleged, would lead to his
hidden Parnassus. But, upon investigation,
we have come up against a dead wall of
silence.
But the “Furphy” is undaunted! It has
the situation in hand. “Protty” will be
found!
To the first person revealing “Protty’s”
identity this mighty organ of Public
Opinion will pay £1000 cash. Guessers
of “Protty’s” identity must accompany
entries with 2s. and the coupon on the
back page. After expenses of the search
have been deducted, the surplus will go
to the Unemployed Poets’ Union.
Turn to page 1 of our Rotogravure
Section for a magnificent picture of Lovely
Miss Gasher —not Gasper, as erroneously
reported in some quarters. Miss Gasher
found the only printed example extant of
“Protty’s” inspired poems.
The “Furphy,” having acquired the Aus-
tralian rights of this magnificent poem,
will publish it in to-morrow’s Pre-eminent
Literary Supplement. Don’t Miss It!
Next morning Miss Gaster bought six
copies of the “Furphy,” and, getting her
mouth fixed to register amiable surprise,
opened one.
There was murder splashed over the
front page and continued on page 5, foot
of cols. 3, 4, 5, with back-page photos,
of an axe similar to the one used to
chop wood in the devastated household
that had been wiped out by a maniac
with a butcher’s knife.
There was no supplement; no poem ;
no more details of the “Find ‘Protty’
Competition”; no mention of Miss
Gaster, spelt Gasher or otherwise. When
she found her voice, Miss Gaster pro
tested:
“They can’t do this to me! I’ll show
them, the [choice Buldorpian ex-
pletive] ! Even if it does mean going
back to Wallabinga!”
THE blue of afternoon was on the
scrub-clad hills sheltering Walla-
binga. All the coterie who
had been able to raise the
fare and the open-
mouthed Wallabingies
had crowded into Mit-
chell-street, waiting round
the hastily erected dais
bearing Miss Gaster, the
professor and the ampli-
fier mechanics.
“The amplifiers are
O.K., Bill; tell the old
girl to turn on the gab.”
Bill’s mate fiddled with controls.
“No, I won’t wave back to her, profes-
sor!” Miss Gaster’s voice burst through
the amplifiers. “She’s only my mother.
- her! She’s laughing at me, as
usual.”
”sn! Miss Gaster!” warned Bill.
“You’re being amplified.”
“Oh, no I’m not! I am? Well, why
didn’t you warn me? What must I say?”
Miss Gaster bleated, then recovered.
“Hello, dear people. I’m thrilled to be
back in Wallabinga, where a dear, sweet
little old lady has kept my home-fires
burning. I —er —mean my mother. Wait
till I wave to her.
“Proudly I say it: Wallabinga is my
birthnlace. and it is one of the cradles
of our nation. It is also the literary birth-
place or Australia's Unknown Laureate.
So I—er, we —have come to dedicate a
memorial to the Poet here outside the
office of the Wallabinga ‘Times,’
“Dear Professor Bulldorp, the ritual
prayer, please.”
“Kneel, damn you!” roared the pro-
fessor. Everybody knelt, and he blas-
phemously led the prayers.
The “Times” office-door opened, and
an inky youth peered with sun-shocked
eyes at the coterie.
“W’y, wot’s up?” blinked the “devil.”
“I thought you was only a dog-fight or
the Salvation Army praying. Well, if
you want the old man, lady, go for him
yourself. I gotter get the paper to bed
meself as usual. He's up at the pub,
but he don’t like being disturbed on
press-day”
“We shan’t interrupt him, or you
either, you Philistine!” said Miss Gaster
crushingly. The head disappeared and
the door slammed.
“I am astounded to hear,” resumed
Miss Gaster “that a few people—l’m
certain not you, dear people!—have
failed to understand, let alone appreciate,
the true beauty of our Laureate’s poem.
By beauty Ido not mean prettiness—
nothing so revoltingly old-fashioned.
There is stark modern beauty in its verse-
form: no capital letters —I love no
capital letters!”
A newcomer, wreathed in malt and
hops fumes, interrupted:
“Look here, you’re”
“Silence!” thundered the professor.
Miss Gaster gushed on; “And how
cleverly by his spellings and his inverted
lines the Poet reproduces inside you the
very emotions that prompted him. Look
at your printed copies. Take the second
line: ‘i was feelig very gay’—r— Just
said like that it conveys little ; printed
upside-down you know exactly how gay
he was feeling.
“The Poet’s pen could find no mere
words to next set down the soul-music
throbbing within him, so, in the most
soul-stirring line of the gorgeous whole,
he expressively makes up his own:
“‘come, SH'Rdlu shrdLU ! ! ! /
ETAoin’
“With such soul-music within, no won-
der he thought of dancing. But his
inamorata —she must be his inamorata
to have inspired such an epic, though
our Poet, with Germanic simplicity, is
content to call her ‘his girl’—feels she
cannot dance. Because of the exhaust-
ing reaction to his great love, she is feel-
ing utterly heavy, with no inspiration.
And to convey this feeling perfectly our
Poet introduces here lines from a ‘S. M.
Herald’ leader. What a stroke of genius!
[Applause.]
“After reading that you must feel the
hopelessness his lure has cast over her.
(Continued on next page.)


TITI ' ¥ ¥ II
Wheii HLM may lead
to all three
remove film this special way
Don’t fool yourself about film! It can be the forerunner of one or all of the
troubles pictured above.
"But in removing film, why use one dentifrice rather than another? you may
ask. On that point, too, you need have no doubts. Many tooth pastes and
tooth powders may claim to attack film. Pepsodent’s sole duty is to REMOVE
FILM—and to keep film off teeth safely. To both the dental profession and
the public alike, Pepsodent is known as the "special film-removing tooth paste.
Common sense reason for effectiveness and safety
You know about that sticky coating that constantly forms on your teeth. Dental
authorities agree that this stubborn coating, which we call film, should be removed
daily. And now, in Pepsodent, is a revolutionary cleansing and polishing material,
recently developed. This material is unexcelled in film-removing power. No
other leading dentifrice contains it. And is it safe? So safe that in impartial
MOREPEPSODENT
—SAME PRICE
New processes have
cot costs, and we
are passing the sav-
ing on to you.
The identical time-
proved Pepsodent is
ready for you, in the
new larger tubes, at
no increase in price.
N I 365
tests Pepsodent has been proved the least abrasive . . . there-
fore softest —of 15 leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders.
So, between visits to your dentist, remove ugly, dangerous
film daily with Pepsodent. No grit in Pepsodent. No risk
of harming precious enamel as with mere “bargain” ways.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
I N
NEW
LARGER
TUBES
So she replies that she would have to
take a cure for it before she can ever
dance again! And so the poem closes
on this superb note of bitter realism —
starkness that must reduce the demigods
of Russian literature to gibbering im-
potent jealousy all over the Steppes!
[Applause.]
“Alas! His modesty prevents me and
you from seeing our great Poet! But
the least we can do in appreciation is
to instal this brass plate, suitably in-
scribed, outside this newspaper office!”
“But, shee here!” The beery one had
come out of his doze.
“Who the hell are you?” demanded
the professor.
“I’m the editor of the ‘Times’!”
“The editor” Miss Caster stared.
“Then where is the Great Unknown?”
“There ishn’t any!”
“Beast!” exclaimed Miss Caster, “But
what could one expect from a thing who
dared jamb the gem of Australian
Poetical Frenzy in a column of patent-
medicine advertisements! ”
“That isn’t poetry! It’s an A-D-V-T! ”
“An advert.” Miss Caster tottered.
“Yes! Damme, won’t I ever hear the
end of it! I was up at the Royal—
detained on business, of course —when
that issue had to be rushed on to the
press. In the excitement my damned
‘devil,’ after attempting to set the ad.,
dropped it and mixed it up with a snip
from the ‘Herald.’
“It should have read like this:
“On a day in merry May,
I was feeling very gay.
1 said to my girl,
‘Come, dance, with your teeth of pearl! ’
But she said, ‘Oh, my head!
Blest if I aren’t near dead.
I’d better take a cure
Before answering your lure —
Good’s Great Cattermint Cure! ’
“I gave Good’s three free ads. to
square it up, so 1 don’t see what you’ve
got to complain about,”
When Hand of Air.
Fair flowers that fill the green
Young leaves with colored light.
Still fair, though faintlier seen,
Blow sweeter still by night.
Would God, might winter stay
Beyond our realm of earth.
And leave —not steal away —
This whole bright summer’s worth.
The hawthorn of the fields,
The red or yellow rose ;
Each to the season yields,
In field or garden close.
Then, when the Hand of Air
Hath pluckt them, every one;
We search the covert where
Some few, perhaps, have run ;
Yet nothing ever find . . .
So turn our gaze on high
To see star-blossoms twined
Eternal in the sky.
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
New Values.
“For these our fathers starved and fought,
Our sons shall enter into these,
With agonies and strivings bought —
Safety and comfort, wealth and ease.”
But Nature, wise in age, replies:
“Though you the brunt of battles bore,
Your far-off progeny may not prize
The things you fought so fiercely for.
“Look, l give the kiwi power
To range the skies on hungry wings,
Yet she disdains the envied dower
And to the sullen earth she clings,
“And even so your sons may choose
To leave the sweets of life untasted,
Spurn the fair charmer when she woos
And think your blood and sweat all
wasted
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
Out of Australias Past:—
THE WILDMAN
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
IN 1803 Lieutenant-Colonel David
Collins, of the Royal Marines, formerly
Judge-Advocate of New South Wales,
reached Port Phillip in H.M.S. Calcutta
with the intention of founding a colony
on the shores of the huge inlet—and
made a failure of the job.
David Collins was an excellent marine
officer, a reliable historian and a very
estimable gentleman, but he was not
cut out to be the leader of a company
of pioneers in the wilderness. When he
had landed his establishment on an alto-
gether unpromising spot just inside the
entrance to Port Phillip, he was deterred
from making a complete examination of
the upper part of the bay by the reported
unfriendliness of the natives, and so
missed the opportunity of founding a
settlement which might soon have been
as important as that at Sydney Cove. He
took the earliest chance he could of mov-
ing across the strait to the Derwent
River in Van Diemen’s Land, where
Lieutenant John Bowen, R.N., had re-
cently established a small military station.
So it came about that Port Phillip was
abandoned early in 1804, and those
southern coasts of the continent remained
neglected for more than twenty years,
although there is little doubt that they
were often visited by the sealers or
whalers operating among the islands in
Bass Strait.
WITH this slight historical introduction
we may proceed to tell our tale.
The tents and flimsy huts of the little
camp established by Collins close to what
is now Sorrento gleamed against a back-
ground of scrub in the last rays of the
setting sun as Sergeant Martin O’Malley,
of the Marines, approached the particular
canvas domicile in the soldiers’ lines that
served him and his wife as a dwelling.
Out in the bay H.M.S. Calcutta lay at
anchor, almost ready for sea, her black
hull and tall rigging silhouetted against
the crimson waters of Port Phillip,
stretching away behind her towards far-
off purple ranges painted against the
glowing western sky.
Sergeant O’Malley was a big man, hard
and dour-looking, with an extraordinary
breadth of shoulder. As he strode down
the lines the look in his face was black
and savage, and it was evident he was
holding himself in great restraint, and his
close-set mouth and jaw were shut in a
fashion that almost spoke for itself of
a determination not to allow a naturally
fierce temper to overmaster him. For
if ever a volcano of rage and resentment
burned within a human being, one flamed
and smoked that summer evening beneath
the broad bosom of Martin O’Malley. So
hot and tempestuous were its pent-up
forces that he scarcely trusted himself to
return the greetings of those'he passed,
“Mary!” his deep voice rumbled as he
raised the canvas flap that served for a
door. “Are ye within? Ah, then, come
out here.”
“Can’t you come inside?” a woman’s
voice responded from inside the tent.
“Come you out here! ” commanded the
sergeant. “And at once —do ye hear me?
I’ve that to say to ye I daren’t say except
where all the camp can witness what I
do. I want ye here at once, Mary.
There’s no time for titivating—come as
ye are. The business will not tarry,. Come
out now.”
, With a face that was a little pale and
frightened-looking, a dainty, pretty and
diminutive woman came to the door of
the tent and stood with a tiny hand sup-
porting herself against the post that
divided the entrance. The great bulk of
her husband loomed before her, huge
and menacing, and as she looked up at
him she seemed k*sense some impending
crisis, for she shrank back into the tent,
and would have disappeared again had
not his huge hand encircled her slender
wrist and detained her.
“I want you
to come with me
at once, Mary —
at once. Get
your hood on
and come with
me.”
“Martin!” she
gasped. “Why,
what ails ’ee?
Where d’ye want
me to come wi’
ye—and why?”
“Never mind
that,” he growled
in a low, tense
voice. “Come
with me —that’s
all ye’ve got to
do.”
He released
her from his
grasp, and in a moment or two, with a
look of fear and anxiety, like that of a
child who dreads detection in some
trifling misdemeanor, she came out to
where he stood and looked up at him
inquiringly.
“Where to, Martin ; where be ’ee takin’
me?”
“Come!” was his only answer. He
led her through the camp towards where,
a little apart from it, stood the tent of
the “Lieutenant-Governor of a Settle-
ment or Settlements to be formed on the
Southern Coasts of New South Wales to
the northward of Basses Streights.”
He asked the sentry where Colonel
Collins might be.
“Went away at daylight, sergeant,”
replied the soldier; “away into the bush
wi’ th’ cap’n o’ the Calcutta an’ four of
our chaps. Some explorin’ game, I think
it is. Mebbe he’ll return soon. Will ye
wait, sergeant?”
Sergeant O’Malley shook his head and
frowned. He thought for a few moments,
and then asked the man another ques-
tion.
“Lookye, Simpson, d’ye know where
that prisoner Buckley is? That tall fel-
low, 1 mean, that the colonel employs
as a servant? I know he’s not out with
his Excellency ; but where is he? Is he
about headquarters?”
“Oh, aye, sergeant. Can ye not hear
the axe? He’s choppin’ wood this very
moment at the colonel’s cookhouse. Ye’ll
find him at th’ back o’ th’ tent.”
“Come! ” said Sergeant O’Malley
sternly to his wife. “We’ll go find this
precious lover of yours. Come with
me.”
Meekly the little woman followed him
as he led the way to the back of the
Lieutenant-Governor’s quarters.
CLOSE beside the shed of boughs that
sheltered the headquarters’ kitchen, an
immense man, bigger far than Sergeant
O’Malley, was chopping firewood from
logs that had been dragged thither by
convict working parties. When the
strangely-contrasted man and woman
came into view he ceased his work and
straightened himself up, a grin in his
somewhat vacuous features, as he saw
who the woman was.
The sergeant halted as they came close
to where the giant was standing beside
the pile of cut billets of wood, and stood
regarding him malevolently, with his left
hand gripping his tiny wife’s right
shoulder. For a moment or two no one
spoke, and then O’Malley drew a pistol
from his belt and covered the younger
man.
“Drop that axe!” he ordered ; and the
gaping prisoner loosed his grip upon the
handle of the implement and let it fall
to the ground.
“Now, hearken to what I have to say
to ye—to say to ye both.”
The woman seemed to shrink a little
as she darted a frightened glance up-
ward at her husband. Buckley’s lower
jaw sagged downward, and he gaped fool-
ishly at the man who threatened him.
“ Twas in my mind,” the sergeant
growled, “to have told what I’ve come
to know this afternoon about the goings-
on of you two to his Excellency, but at
this moment I’ve thought of something
better. You both know what I mean I
see ye do —so I’ll not soil my lips by
speaking of it further. I’ll say little ot
it at all. But this is what ye’ll do —each
of you.
“You, Molly—you’ll go back to my
tent and try to believe I’ve forgiven ye.
I’ll never do that, but you may come to
believe it in time. And you, Buckley—
you’ll leave the camp and go away. I
care not whither you go —that’s youi
lookout. But if you’re within the lines
by daylight I’ll shoot you dead, so help
me God ; and if ever I set eyes on you
again I’ll kill you. D’ye understand ? 1 m


■
X-KJ
ri
vm,
n
i
V?> v. #m^s
t ; * *rt &s*i *'" <2
$ yA*.. >*-
%
%3E
s^k
%
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
t o
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars —the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
giving you the choice of all New Hol-
land to wander in, and that you may do,
but if ever you wander near where I am
you’ll live no longer than gives me time
to compass your destruction.
“If the black natives kill and eat you,
well and good. If they don’t, you’ll be
lucky. But go you shall. Come, Molly,
we’ll go back to our tent, and never
again, I promise ye, will I speak of this.
And you can reckon, Buckley, on being
a dead man if ever I clap eyes on you
again.”
At the morning roll-call the prisoner
William Buckley was missing, and so
were three of his companions. They
never came near the camp again whilst
Collins remained in Port Phillip.
ON May 10, 1835, lohn Batman sailed
from Launceston in the schooner
Rebecca with three white men and six
New South Wales blacks. He did not get
clear of the coast of Van Diemen’s Land
until the twenty-seventh, but on the
twenty-ninth the schooner dropped
anchor off Indented Head, near the en-
trance to Port Phillip, where he estab-
lished a depot, while he explored Corio
Bay and the northern side of the big
inlet.
On luly 12 a small party of natives
visited the people whom Batman had left
at Indented Head, and one among them
became of immediate interest to the white
men because of his tall stature and the
fact that his features were decidedly
European. It was also noticed that one
of his arms was tattooed with the letters
“W. 8.” But, although his appearance
was utterly dissimilar to that of any of
his dusky companions, in nakedness and
manners he was altogether one of them,
and he did not seem to have any know-
ledge of the English language. How-
ever, since they could not believe that
he was really an Australian aboriginal,
they persisted in questioning him, and
one of them tried an experiment by hold-
ing out to him a piece of bread. At once
he uttered its correct name. After a few
days he began to remember other Eng-
lish words, and gradually his native
tongue came back to him and he was
able to give some account of himself.
William Buckley thus returned to the
world of his fellow white men after hav-
ing lived for thirty-two years as a Port
Phillip blackfellow.
A few years after this a book entitled
The Life and Adventures of William
Buckley was published by a man named
John Morgan in Hobart Town. It was
supposed to be a narrative from Buck-
ley’s own lips of the incidents and ad-
ventures which had to do with his long
sojourn among the blacks, but it is of
very doubtful authenticity, and it is
strongly to be suspected that' the tale is
rather that of John Morgan than of the
actual actor in this strange human drama.
From all the evidence available, it is
probable that, after leaving Collins’s
camp near Sorrento, he fled along the
coast of the bay as quickly as he could,
so as to avoid recapture. He did not
go inland, for fear that he might miss
being picked up by some possible vessel,
and he gradually worked his way round
to and along the western shores of
Port Phillip until he came to the Geelong
district. According to his own statement,
he even penetrated to the Otway Ranges.
It is certain, however, that for thirty
years he lived with the Geelong blacks,
occasionally wandering with them as far
northward as the Yarra, but generally
inhabiting the district of the You Yangs.
He was never able to give any account
of what happened to the companions
who had run away with him, and their
fate has remained a mystery.
A formal pardon was granted to Buck-
ley by the authorities in Sydney, and for
some time he was employed by the Port
Phillip Association as a go-between with
the natives ; his chief duty was to act as
an interpreter. When the first superinten-
dent of the Port Phillip district, Captain
Lonsdale, assumed office in 1836, he
found that the “wild white man” had
been a private in his own old regiment,
and naturally took a good deal of inter-
est in him. At the suggestion of the
Governor, Sir Richard Bourke, he
appointed him constable and interpreter
to the natives, and at first placed a good
deal of reliance in him. But it was not
long before he proved himself to be
utterly untrustworthy, lacking in intelli-
gence, and quite incapable of making
himself of any service in connection with
official dealings with the aborigines. Sir
Richard Bourke recommended him for a
pension, but the Colonial Office declined
to grant him one.
AND so we come to the year 1851 and
the taproom of that long-vanished
Hobart Town hostelry, the David Collins
inn, of which the licensee is the highly-
respected Mr. Martin O’Malley, lately ot
Port Arthur and Norfolk Island.
It is getting on for half a century since
last we saw Mr. O’Malley, and, naturally,
he has aged considerably in that long
interval. The broad shoulders have a
stoop in them, of which there did not
seem to be any possibility at all when
we beheld him raging through the lines
of Lieutenant-Governor Collins’s camp
near Sorrento that summer evening in
1803, and, a long grey beard hides the
massive jaws that had been so trimly
shaven in his early years. But the great
voice is still deep and strong, the dark
eyes bright and sharp, and still, at eighty
years of age, Mr. O’Malley is what is
called “a well-preserved man.” That’s
more than can be said of that little
shrivelled atom of femininity, Mrs.
O’Malley, who, although active enough
in the conduct of the business, has some-
thing of the aspect of a diminutive
Egyptian mummy.
When he left the Royal Marines —•
which was somewhere about the time
Lieutenant-Governor Collins died at
Hobart Town in 1810 —Sergeant O’Malley
joined the police, and greatly distin-
guished himself during the administra-
tions of Colonel Davey, Colonel Sorell
and Colonel Arthur by his activity against
the Hobart Town bushrangers. The last-
named Lieutenant-Governor invited him
to enter the service of the Comptroller
of Convicts, and he had long periods at
the famous penal establishment on Tas-
man’s Peninsula and later at Norfolk
Island. He retired in 1836, and became
the licensee of the David Collins Inn,
between Hobart Town and its growing
suburb of New Town. A prosperous little
house it was, where good liquor was sold
and no nonsense tolerated on the part of
potentially rowdy patrons. Some of the
latter had known the landlord at Port
Arthur and “the Island,” and clearly
understood that good behavior was as
necessary towards him as a publican as
it had been when he was a gaoler.
On this particular evening he was
seated with an old crony, Mr. Isaac
Plumb, retired leather merchant of Eliza-
beth-street, reading aloud from a news-
paper of the granting of responsible gov-
ernment to the Port Phillip district and
commenting somewhat caustically on the
proposal that the colony should be named
after the young Queen.
“Nonsense, I call it, Isaac,” he said.
“What’s her Majesty ever had to do with
the place? I’d name it after the first
ruler if ever had. True, he didn’t stay
there long—but he was the first, and his
name should be honored. Same as I
honored it when I took over the license
of this inn.”
“Why, who was that, Martin?” asked
Mr. Plumb. “I disremember.”
“ ’Twas his Honor Lieutenant-Colonel
David Collins, with whom I went there
at the end of the year 1803. His was the
first Government there—’tis his name
should go to the place. * I’d call it Collins
Land —not Victoria. ’Twould only be
right and proper so to do.”
“Collins be damned!” cried a rough
voice from the darkest corner of the
room.
Surprised, and a little angry, Mr.
O’Malley turned to look at the stranger
who had dared to contradict him in his
own house. Neither he nor his friend,
engrossed in their conversation, had
noticed anyone enter the room, and they
were a little startled by the interruption.
Among the regular customers of the place
there was none who would have dared
even to differ with Mr. O’Malley’s
opinion. At least there was none who
would have ventured to express a dif-
ference, and to express it so rudely.
As their eyes got used to the darkness
of the corner in which he sat upon a
bench behind a plain deal table that
stretched along the wall, they made out
a very tall old man with a swarthy com-
plexion, the lower half of whose face,
like that of the landlord, was hidden by
a great beard that, too, was almost white.
He towered above the level of the table,
and the first thought that came to each
of them was “What a giant he must be
when he stands up!”
“Davy Collins!” he said, “he weren’t
no dam’ use at all. Run away and left
th’ place, he did. Frightened—scared.
Scared o’ them pore creatures as wouldn’t
hurt a babby, so long as they was let
alone. Don’t I know it!”
Martin O’Malley was a little huffed.
David .Collins had been good to him in
his time, and abiise of the dead Gov-
ernor was blasphemy in his ears. More-
over, this stranger —he must be a
stranger, or he wouldn’t take up such an
attitude in his house —was inclined to a
certain “you-be-damnedness” that rubbed
him the wrong way.
“Well, then, mister,” he said gruffly,
“you may know something about the
matter, or then again you may not. But
I was there at the time, and I know what
I’m talking about. ’Tis folly to say that
Colonel Collins was afraid of the blacks,
if that’s what you mean. You don’t
know what you’re talking about. And
you can’t know very much about the
blackfellows if you think they’d be likely
to frighten a man like David Collins,
who’d seen a main o’ fighting with the
Royal Marines. He was at Bunker’s Hill,
in the American War, and with Lord
Howe at the relief of Gibraltar. A man
who’d had sarvice like his wouldn’t be
likely to be scared of a parcel of half-
starved cadgers like those Australian
blackfellows. Not likely! ”
“Better men among ’em than ever
Davy was,” retorted the big man. “An'
as for you bein’ there—that ain’t
nothink, Mr. Landlord. I was there, too
—and, by God, if anyone knows them
blacks ’tis meself. You can believe that,
mister —I tell you straight. They’re good
men, them blackfellers —-and they treated
me better nor any white man ever did.
I don’t mind sayin’ it, see? Don’t ’ee
reckernise me, gen’lemen?”
“Why, who the devil should you be
that' we’d recognise you?” demanded Mr.
O’Malley angrily.
“Well —I’m pretty well known in
Hobart Town, anyway. Ain’t ye ever
heard tell about Bill Buckley?”
Mr. O’Malley started, and leaned for-
ward in his chair to peer at the big
stranger sitting in the corner with his pot
of beer before him. The latter went on:
“Yes —I’m him. I’m Bill Buckley—
the cove what stayed behind when Davy
Collins run away from Port Phillip, an’
lived for thirty years with th’ blacks. Oh,
my oath —there ain’t no mistake about
it. I know more about them black-
fellers than anyone else in th’ world.
I do that. Why, if I was to tell
you”
HE was interrupted by the startling be-
havior of the landlord, who rose
from his chair and limped across
towards the door that led out into the
passage.
“By God!” he said. “By God!”
He paused for a moment to address
the tall old man in the corner. “You
stay there—just five minutes —Mr. Bill
Buckley, an’ I’ll carry out the promise
I made ye eight-and-forty years ago.
Don’t go! Stay there, and I’ll keep my
word.”
Mr. Plumb, amazed, saw his friend go
out the door and begin to climb the
stairs to the upper storey of the house.
In a moment his amazement was in-
creased. The door of the bar-room, which
had been ajar, was pushed open, and
the tiny, wizened figure of Mrs. O’Malley
shuffled into the taproom. She went
across the apartment and leaned over
the table, staring and peering at Buckley.
“Fod God’s sake, Bill—go while you’re
alive. He’s gone upstairs to get his pistol
—the one he’s kept for you all these
years an’ loaded afresh each end o’ th’
week. Go —for God’s sake go before he
comes down again.”
“Why, ma’am, who be ye?” asked the
giant in a tone that betrayed something
of fear.
“I be Molly O’Malley, the sergeant’s
wife.”
“And him?”
“He’s Sergeant Martin O’Malley that
was.”
“Oh, my Gawd!” exclaimed Mr.
Buckley fearfully as he elevated his
great bulk and made towards the door.
“Oh, hell! I don’t want to meet Ser-
geant O’Malley. I’m a-goin’.”
The wild man hastily departed into the
deepening twilight.


NEW NATURAL WAY TO STRENGTHEN
YOUR NERVES —NO DRUGS OR PALLIATIVES
\
m
m
mM
Save Yourself with COLOSEPTIC
COLOSEPTIC cleanses the colon of all ferment-
ing food-refuse and passes it out of the system,
in a smooth, natural manner. It enables the
body to obtain full nourishment from the food
you eat and arrests the cause of weakened and
irritated nerves. COLOSEPTIC checks acidity
of the nerve fluids and the blood stream by
stimulating the action of the other eliminative
organs—the kidneys, skin pores and respiratory
organs. This simple drug-free remedy has
helped thousands of men and women to regain
lost nervous energy. Commence taking COLO-
SEPTIC to-day. With its aid you will build up
strong, vigorous nerves and thus master the
trouble that is ruining your health, happiness
and prosperity.
FREE . . . This Absorbing Book!
Send the coupon to-day for a demonstration jar
of COLOSEPTIC, and you will receive, under
plain cover and by return mail, a book telling
you all about "Autoxima," an intimate and
highly important subject. Prove, at our, expense,
how much belter COLOSEPTIC is than pallia-
tives and "nerve foods." In a few days your
head will feel clearer, your nerves steadier—
you'll not feel so "peevish" you'll
sleep better. Then realise what a full
treatment will do for you. The book is
absolutely free—so fill in and mail the
coupon now.
Medical Science Discovers Real Cause of
NERVOUS CONDITIONS . . .
NEURITIS . . . WEAKNESS . . .
SLEEPLESSNESS
NERVOUSNESS
NEURALGIA...FEARS...
NEURASTHENIA . . . . .
BREAKDOWN... and other
complaints duo to Exhausted Nerves.
"NERVES" kill. You may be the next victim. Many
a promising career and many a happy home has
been ruined by "nerves." Many a social success has
been lost by some trifling indiscretion or error of
judgment—due entirely to unstable nerves. When a
man loses his temper or flares up in excitement; when
a woman begins to nag, fret, worry and have weeping
fits; when a child becomes cross, unruly, shy—it's
definitely a case of unbalanced nerves.
WHY RUIN YOUR LIFE?
Clogged Colon
Science has discovered that it is as easy to
have sound, healthy nerves as it is to have
vigorous muscles —without drugs, pallia-
tives, or "nerve" foods. Due to modern
cooking methods and the lack of vital food
essentials in present-day diets, the muscles
of the large intestine (colon) become flaccid
and fail to expel from the body all the waste matter
left over from digestion.
This food-refuse accumulates and clings !o ihe walls
of the colon and toxins are eventually absorbed into
the blood stream, giving rise to acidosis. Acid condi-
tions or acidosis of the system quickly develop and
when the nerves are irritated, nervousness, neuritis,
fretfulness, irritability, hysteria, neuralgia, neuras-
thenia, fears, worry, sleeplessness and hosts of other
nerve complaints result. Drugs, palliatives and nerve VndoggedCoion
foods merely "whip up" the already irritated nerves and
thus actually hasten nerve exhaustion.
CLIP OUT
COLOSEPTIC ust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book on Auloxima.
Also send me my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose 1/- in
penny stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS.
not I«1 »M"
ft
I
m
DRINK '
Coloseot
ic
R M D UJ‘
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
(WAYHF'S IMPROVED * FOR
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., 26 O'Connell St., Sydney.
i
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
What Is the League?
Like millions of others, I was a strong
believer in the League of Nations till its
miserable failure to prevent, or even to
make an honest effort to prevent, the
massacre of the inhabitants of one mem-
ber-country by another, which must cause
it to perish in the scorn of a disillusioned
world.
Mr. Duncan Hall, an officer of the
League, told an audience at Canberra
that “the League offers Australia vital
security! ”
Presumably the League would offer
Australia the same “vital security” it has
given to the unfortunate people of
Abyssinia!
No, it won’t do to rely on the League
or on anyone else for the defence of
Australia. We must be prepared to de-
fend ourselves or perish. We know that
God helps only those who help them-
selves, and it’s God help those who can’t
or won’t!
If we were to utilise, towards the up-
keep of a powerful air fleet, the money
we now subscribe to help maintain this
futile institution, we would be doing
something effective in securing the
“vital security” of Australia.— Arthur
Griffith (N.S.W.).
On the Track
A housewife living in a country town-
ship, I wish someone would do some-
thing about this “hobo” question.
Two a week is our average. They beg
everything from tea to a meal. Hitherto,
I have refused none ; a refusal might be
the last straw to some deserving unfor-
tunate. But lam hardening my heart
to say “no” to the next one.
Recently our village was visited by
four youths, ages 17 to 20.
They worked to a plan, doing the place
thoroughly in pairs. They asked for
potatoes, butter, jam, everything to pro-
vide variety on their menu. When they
left they carried away four sugarbags
of food.
And we are paying our relief tax in
instalments.— Credulous (Q.).
“Necessary—and Neglected”
That Bulletin article (15/4/’36)
registers a sound and well-merited kick.
Customs Minister White has admitted
that imports of fish into the Common-
wealth over six years averaged approxi-
mately £BlO,OOO a year. Still Canberra
has not altogether been asleep. It has
assigned to knights Julius and Rivett and
their C.S.I.R. staff the right to build in
Australia a specially-designed research
vessel to operate under the command of
an experienced Yankee seine-net skipper,
with a year for expenses.
Such a move may be justified ; but how
many years will the commercial and in-
dustrial world have to wait for the build-
ing of the vessel, the training of the crews
and the correlation of records?
This industry, potentially the fourth-
largest in Australia, needs the guiding
hand of an F. H. Stewart or a
Kneeshaw, not the red-tape and flounder-
ings of Canberra. —S. McA. (N.S.W.).
“Black Boxers”
Why stop at the coons (B. 15/4/’36)
or at boxing? Disgraceful attempts
to foul with the head are seen at
most so-called wrestling matches be-
tween imported whites. But, as an old-
time champion remarked to the writer:
“The crowd loves to see somebody get
hurt.”
Prohibit imports of coons, by all
means, but prohibit also brutality, what-
ever the color of the offender’s skin.
For some mysterious reason boxing
promoters are exempted from laws
binding upon employers in far worthier
businesses. They need not insure their em-
ployees ; they are permitted to profit
from beatings inflicted publicly upon
human beings such as would result in
prosecutions for cruelty if the victims
were horses or dogs ; and they are never
called to account when a “boxer” dies
after a fight. Why is this interest so
favored? —SOP (N.S.W.).
“Shyiock’s Happy Hunting-ground”
Public servants have permanency of
employment and fixed salaries. Except
for circumstances beyond their control
there should be no valid reason for
their resorting to Shylock.
Moreover, public servants are specially
protected by the Bankruptcy Acts. They
are not permitted to assign their estates
to a trustee for the benefit of their credi-
tors —vide the proviso to Section 101.
The only redress, therefore, that a credi-
tor (not necessarily a moneylender) has
against a defaulting public servant is to
sue for his debt and obtain judgment.
The department will set aside a reason-
able proportion of the defaulter’s salary
to satisfy the judgment. There is, there-
fore, no need for a garnishee order.
Certain departments recognise a deed
of arrangement under Part XII of the
Bankruptcy Act entered into by a public
servant for the benefit of his creditors
as a whole, which is sensible. Certain
other departments refuse, which is not
sensible. There are on record instances
where a public servant has entered into
a deed of arrangement with his credi-
tors under which he undertakes to set
aside portion of his salary for then-
benefit, and after the deed is registered
has refused to honor if. In view of the
attitude of the department and the protec-
tion of the section mentioned, there is no
power to make him honor it.
The Act should be amended in the
direction of compelling a public servant
to honor the contractual obligations en-
tered into by him with his creditors.—
Warrabinda (Q.L
Answers to Correspondents
«
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.N.8.: Your most pressing need is a pocket
rhyming dictionary... .JJ.: Excusable at 16-
Now read some genuine poetry and tune your
harp again... . A.V.N.: reflec-
tions in indifferent jingle E.R.1.: “Is the
verse really bad?” It i5....W.C.: Afraid its
not up to publication mark... .0.5.8.: We
have no “usual rates” for humdrum stuff ot
that sort —in fact, no rates at all E.F.J.:
There’s a hint of music in it, but yours is a
very thin and reedy pipe A.S.M.; Not a
bad bit of rhyme, but the mug who turns out
to be a finished horseman has been presented
too often... .L.P.: Anything less suitable or
more footling seldom comes our way....
A.V.N.: "A Decent Bloke” failed to pass the
poetical test J.M.M.; It might pass as
descriptive prose; tricked out to resemble
verse it made our head ache E.D.: “It is
only I who weep.” Maybe, but your stu..
might reduce anyone to tears... .L.S.: The
last word in inanity M.M.: Useless to us.
... .W.M.S.: Plain silliness, and even the rhym-
ing is execrable... .Bellerive: Don’t get down-
heartened if you are occasionally crowded out;
you have stacks of admirers yet;
BEHIND THE CURTAIN OF MY ART.
I diippeth my pen in silence.
My verses no longer are seen
Weekly as they were in the answers,
For years in The Bulletin.
A victim of fierce spectulation
In defence I could only dare,
But never weakened nor trembled
In the thraldom of sad despair,
A mirthful clown of a circus
Who capers and rolls he’s eyes
Wins more friends than a poet,
Be him ever so clever and wise.
I jotteth down verse in silence,
I’m snug in my little den,
Master of my gift from the cradle,
Wizard of ink, paper and pen.
E.M.E.: Send it to a woman’s paper....
M.P.: Too long-winded and unresolved
R.Q.: Only worth a par. at the most....
R.W. and J.C.L.F.: More suited for the maga-
zine pages of a daily... .0.P.: Incident has been
described before in paragraph form L.Q.:
Not impressed by that particular courtship by
correspondence... .H.T.G.: Needs a lot more
suspense to pull it through... .M. 8.; Neithei
is sufficiently well told —there is a loose,
amateur touch about both... .R.A.: A tempei-
ance rag might snap up touching tale of re-
formed drunkard’s will-power KJ.L.: Well
enough written, but the facts are too hard to
swallow... .L.G.H.; A trifle that misfired....
R.M.L.; Your faith in your ability as a short-
story writer is misplaced... .R. 1.: Got some-
where near the mark G.C.8.: A little more
crispness and punch needed T.L.W.: No
place in our Rogues’ Gallery for your lucky
murderer... .V.M.R.: Have you only just heard
that preserved-monkey story? ... .J.C.H.; All
three are too inconclusive... .D.H.E.; Rendez-
vous yarn may appeal to a maga. for girls.
H.A.: Fair enough, but a little too much on
the thin side T.W.N.: Plot wherein would-
be suicide changes his mind only to meet with
fatal accident has been worked threadbare
1.N.C.: Some good imaginative writing, but it
ends too vaguely... .L.C.W.: Merely f.a.q.
slapstick F.T.: Not as uproarious as it
could have been... .G.R.; Rather formless... •
Z.V.W.: A polite elaboration of a story our
barber tells.. . .G.H.S.: Looks as if you
couldn’t decide whether it was to be article
or story E.G.: Confession fell on deaf ears.
. ...G.F.: No perching-place for the albatross
here D.M.: Ditto with your wagtails....
M.S.; Learn to write a perfect short story
before writing about a perfect crime....
E.M.D.: Sorry, no resting-place here W.H.:
Not quite what we are seeking; try it elsewhere.
A.T.P.: Second reading merely confirmed
our opinion formed after the first.... A.R.: Did
not find Coolgardie Joe entertaining....
J.0.G.: Labored attempt at humor L.C.G.:
Not sufficient Australian interest M.W.:
Tragedy tamely t01d... .C.L.C.: Only a faint
smile in that yarn—we want laughs A.L.S.:
Outsize in tomcats is miaowing his way back.
... .Jackeroo: Fair description of outback con-
ditions, but not enough in it... .Unsigned
(whoever you are): German East African cam-
paign story not up; give us an idea of your
identity next time... .R.E.8.; Passed on to
Religious Editor to say a prayer over it
R.E.D.: Sounds like a sermon, brother
M. : Your second sheilah not as attractive
as your first.... Glentronie: A neat vignette,
but far too slight Bandy Joe: You might
have hoisted a swag with Lawson, but the
telling requires much better treatment E.G. :
Virile brawler who trembles at his spouses
baritone is an old friend... .T.P.D.; We were
disappointed in that traditional bellowdrammer
—the villain was not named Throgmorton
A.M.G.: Ah! welcome to the thief with the
evil leer who turns out to be the long-lost
nephew from Canada!... .C.E.G.: Suburban
grocers who get vicarious globe-trotting thrills
can’t ring this peter... .D.W.; A morbid
theme, and you handle it crudely F.S.:
Still don’t like that canecutting yartE.
N. : Not enough humor in travel skit.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC?
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.R.; A scratchy drawing illustrating an
ancient wheeze... . 8.D.: No hope for you
unless you give years to study... .C.A.: Boxing
kangaroo counted 0ut....V.M.: A neat httle
sketch, but it doesn’t fit the gag A.M.C.:
Looks to have been drawn while you were riding
behind a stump-jump plough... .H.H.: A hor-
rible example of slather-and-whack art... .C.U. ■
Can’t corroborate your friends... .L.W.: From
what cemetery of jests? ... .F.R.J.: Abyssinian
cartoon horrible... .E.N.; A dozen artistic
errors, and the joke is stale... .R.W..
You need a finer brush for that detailed
work... .F.C.C.: Still puzzling as to the
breed and purpose of the winged monster
in the treetop M.K.: Well, they must be,
original and good; yours are neither. . . .8.8..
Nearly every small boy who goes fishing on
Sunday seems to make the same retort to an
inquisitive parson... .H.S.: Caricature has no
bearing on the subject.. . .T.H.M.: You know
how to set out a drawing, but your linevyorK
is splintery and indecisive V.P.: Didn t
take to the family with hexagonal faces....
O. Jests need to be brighter and draw-
ings improved tenfold.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (23), used to sheep, wants job
on Q’land sheep station, boundary-riding pre-
ferred. —1423.
Journalist (43), 25 years’ exp. daily-weekly
papers in Britain, S. Africa and M.L. as re-
porter, sub-editor and editor, desires employ-
ment in Australia or Islands. Refs. —(D. W.
McIntosh, 27 Hepburn-street, Auckland, C.2,
M.L.)
Chauffeur (Vic.), nine years last position,
seeks employment. Refs. —1348.
Accurate detailed information relating to
all phases of the life of Henry Lawson, at
Grenfell, Mudgee, Sydney, W.A. and M.L.-—-
(To R. Grant, 107 Eyre-street, Ballarat, Vic.).
Art students’ club in Budapest wishes to
communicate with art students, artists and art
critics in Sydney.—(Write al S.20, E. Preim,
Farkas-Preiss, Hongrie, Budapest-Rakospalota,
Bethlen u. 123.)
To correspond with Bulletin readers re-
siding Lancefield goldfield, W.A. —<To F.
Kingston, Fleetwood station, via Jericho, C.
Queensland.)
Words of verse “When the Jim-Jams Nest
Again.”—1389.
To buy Highways and Byways in Somerset,
by Edward Hutton, and Royal Academy Illus-
trated, 1928.— 1379.
To buy Cartoons by Thomas Nast and
Cartoons by Bradley. —1381.
To buy portable typewriter.—1410.
Information Sought.
Did France charge the Commonwealth of
Australia for the rent of the land on which the
A.I.F. were fighting during the Great War ?
-1149.
A very old canard. The answer is, em-
phatically, no.
* * *
Is it a fact that the South African Govern-
ment owns an area in France containing the
graves of South African soldiers ? —1440.
The title deeds of Delville Wood, contain-
ing the graves of South African troops who
fell there during the battles on the Western
Front in France in the Great War are held by
the Government of the Union of South Africa,
and Delville Wood is, as a matter of inter-
national law, part of South Africa.
s': * *
(1) Can any Act of Parliament override the
Constitution of Australia, such as a War Pre-
cautions or Emergency Act? (2) Would it
have been possible for Mr. Hughes when he
was Prime Minister to enforce conscription
under the War Precautions Act without putting
the issue to the people ? —1396.
(1) No Act of the Federal Parliament can
suspend or override the Constitution,. but by
means prescribed in the Constitution (involving
submission of the matter to State Legislatures,
and in certain cases the holding of a referen-
dum of electors) the Constitution can be
altered. (2) The point has not been judicially
decided. Clause 51 of the Constitution em-
powers the Federal Parliament to make laws
with respect to “the naval and military defence
of the Commonwealth and of the several
States.” Quick and Garran in their commen-
tary say: “The plenitude of Parliament’s naval
and military power is, apparently, subject to
limitation in the purpose for which it must
be used. It could not enter uppn naval and
military enterprises solely with a view to foreign
conquest and aggression; its power is to be
used for the defence of the Commonwealth
and of the several States.” If the matter
came to the test the High Court might decide
that the defence of Australia may necessitate
the sending of forces overseas.
❖
Are lascars a distinct race, and where do they
originate? —1376.
The Royal Commission on Labor, 1892, de-
fined lascars as Asiatic seamen, subjects of
the British Empire, as distinct from Chinese,
Malays, etc., and at the International Seamen’s
Conference held at Genoa in 1920 the repre-
sentatives of the Indian Government stated that
the name covered deck hands only, excluding
firemen and stewards. The men are usually
recruited from the Mohammedan population of
India. In early .British-Indian history the
term was also applied to camp-followers, and
: s derived from the Persian laskar, meaning
camp.
* * -1= *
(1) Is a contractor in N. S. Wales who
works on the job entitled to deduct pay for
himself as foreman or ordinary workman when
calculating income for taxation purposes ? (2)
May he deduct cost and upkeep of motor-car
used entirely in his business ? —1264.
(1) No. (2) Cost of car would represent
a capital expenditure, and is not an allowable
deduction. Running expenses and depreciation
can, however, be claimed as deductions.
* * * *
My son (17) wishes to join the wireless
branch of the R.A.F. to become a radio
mechanic. What are the qualifications, and are
there any vacancies ? —1219.
To be eligible for consideration as a wire-
less operator candidates must be able to send
and receive messages at the rate of 20 words
per minute. The education standard is that
of the merit certificate. No facilities exist for
the entry of boys as apprentices or for the
further training of partly-qualified tradesmen.
Was Guy Boothby, the novelist, an Aus-
tralian ? When did he die ? —1380.
He was born at Glen Osmond, near Adel-
aide, October 13, 1867, being the grandson of
Mr. Justice Boothby, an early Judge of the
Supreme Court of S.A. After producing
works of fiction in Australia for some years,
he went to England, where he achieved
success. He died at Boscombe, England,
February 26, 1905.
$ Hs $ *
When and by whom iva.v the Spit Bridge,
Sydney, built ? Who owns it now, and when
did the toll system cease ? —1404.
The wooden bridge across the Middle
Harbor at the Spit was built in 1924 by the
Sydney Harbor Trust for the Manly Muni-
cipal Council. Tolls were levied to defray the
cost. In 1930, when expenses had been paid
in full, the bridge was transferred to the
Government.
* * * *
Unemployed-relief tax collected and other
receipts obtained by the N.S.W. Government
for use by the unemployed-relief fund for each
of the financial years since June, 1930 ? —1413.
1930-31, £4,877,835 (includes £500,000 ad-
vanced by the Treasury); 1931-32, £6,042,256;
1932-33, £6,736,923; 1933-34, £5,274,475;
1934-35, £5,289,189.
* * * *
What per cent, is payable in England in
estate duty in estates of the n follcrmng
amounts: £500,000, £1,000,000, £1,250,000,
£1,500,000 and £2,000,000 7—1424.
£500,000, 34 p.c.; £1,000,000, 40 p.c.;
£1,250,000, 42 p.c.; £1,500,000, 45 p.c.;
£2,000,000, 50 p.c.
* * *
What maternity allowance is payable in Aus-
tralia, and what is the maximum annual in-
come allowable to claimants? —1420.
The Maternity Allowance Act 1912, as
amended, provides for the payment to mothers
of a sum of £4 in respect of each birth occur-
ring in Australia, plus ss. in respect of each
other living child under the age of 14 years,
up to a maximum of £5. It is claimable only
where the income of the claimant and her
husband (or, in the case of a posthumous or
ex-nuptial child, the income of the claimant)
does not exceed £2OB, plus £l3 for each living
child under 14 years of age, up to a maximum
of £299.
* * * *
On what date were the elections for the
N.S.W. Legislative Council? —903.
The ballots took place on Nov. 2, Nov. 16,
Nov. 30 and Dec. 14, 1933. On April 24,
1934, the writ was returned and the members
sworn.
* * * *
How did the breeders of budgerigars first set
about evolving the various colors now avail-
able ?— l2ll.
Scientific selection, together with a lair
amount of luck, produced the first pure blues.
All the colors have been produced by an appli-
cation of the Mendel theory, the selection of the
parent birds in each instance being a matter
for the specialists, some of whom jealously
guard their secrets. There are several books
on the subject, and any bookseller in a large
way should be able to supply these.
H: *
(1) How are flowers made from wood pulp ?
(2) Where in Melbourne can the material be
bought. (3) How is it colored ? —1262.
(1) Full details are given by suppliers of
materials. (2) Robertson and Mullens sell it
under the name of “wood fibre for artificial
flowers.” (3) The material can be bought
already colored in a number of shades.
$ sH * *
I have had a ring gidya walking stick sent
to me from Cent. Q’land. This has a varnished
surface which is liable to scratch _ easily and
chip. What is the best method of giving a last-
ing polish, and how can the present finish be
removed ? Also , what is the best polish for a
cedar dining table ? —l3ll.
Scrape off the varnish with a sharp pen-
knife and sandpaper the stick smooth. When
clean, polish with a mixture of beeswax and
turpentine soaked to a thick paste. If the table
is French-polished, make up a mixture ol
equal parts of raw linseed oil and vinegar.
Shake, and apply lightly with a flannel; polish
with silk. If waxed or low-polished, apply the
beeswax and turpentine mentioned, and rub
with a woollen cloth.
* * * =l=
Where is the musk located in a crocodile or
alligator? Is it secreted only in the mating
season, and is it liquid ? —1097.
The scent- or musk-glands of the crocodile
consist of two pairs, one pair at the sides of
the throat close to the angles of the lower
jaw, the other just within the vent. These
glands are possessed by both sexes, and they
produce a strong, musky, liquid secretion only
during the breeding season.
* * * *
I have sawn off a large camphor laurel tree
24 in. across and cut to within a foot of the
ground. How can 1 prevent roots throwing
up suckers ? —1335.
The camphor laurel does not, as a rule,
sucker from the roots. It will shoot from the
stump remaining, but there should be no
difficulty in breaking those few shoots off as
they, appear, or strip all the bark off the stump
down to the roots. Either of these methods
would eventually kill the stump. A mixture
of arsenic powder and caustic soda inserted
into holes bored in the trunk would soon poison
it, but this is dangerous to prepare unless
one is accustomed to handling it.
* * * *
(1) How to prevent silverfish from eating
wallpaper near wainscoting ? (2) How to pre-
vent silverfish from eating carpet which lies
under furniture ? —1094.
(1) Silverfish can be poisoned by mixing
a paste of raw flour and water to which has
been added a little Paris green or arsenate of
lead, the paste being placed on pieces of card-
board where they are suspected. Both poisons
are dangerous. It is better to wage war on the
pests by using plenty of turpentine in crevices
where they are suspected, and allowing no
accumulation of old magazines on the book-
shelves—they are very fond of the glazed
paper in good periodicals. (2) Carpet beetles
are the cause of the damage to your carpets;
they are dark in color, and unless you are
acquainted "with them you will not recognise
them. Under the carpets place plenty of para-
dichlorobenzine, mixed with a little naphthaline.
If this is unobtainable, use a preparation called
Kilmoth. Further information on both ques-
tions in the “Woman’s Mirror ’ 4/6/ 35, 4d.
posted from this office.
* * * *
Recipe for (I) black and (2) tan boot polish ?
—422.
(1) Shredded soap 122 parts, potassium car-
bonate 61 parts, beeswax 500 parts, water
2000 parts. Mix and boil together until a
smooth paste is obtained; then add bone black
1000 parts, powdered sugar 153 parts, pow-
dered gum arabic 61 parts. Mix thoroughly,
remove from the fire and pour into tins or
boxes. (2) Beeswax 9 parts, oil of turpentine
20 parts, soap 1 part, boiling water 20 paits.
Dissolve the wax and turpentine over a waiter
bath with gentle heat, dissolve the shredded
soap in the boiling water, then stir the two
mixtures together. Add sufficient Bismarck
brown to make the right shade, remove from
the fire and stir until it cools into a mass;
place in pots or tins. If a stiller paste is
wanted, reduce water and turpentine. It is un-
profitable to attempt to make these polishes
in small quantities.
Origin and English translation of Habet
aliquid ex iniquo omnemagnum exemplum,
quod contra singulos, Militate puhlica rependi-
tur” ? —1427. , f
It is from Tacitus: “Every great example Lot
punishment] has something unequal in it, which
is compensated, so much as it is to the dis-
advantage of individuals, by its public useful-
ness.”
* * * *
I am a man just past 60, in good general
health. Often my night’s rest is spoilt by pro-
longed painful cramps in my leg and foot
muscles. Cause and cure ? 1367. .
The leg cramp is caused by faulty circula-
tion and uric-acid accumulation in the system.
At your age the tendency to arthritis or har-
dening of the arterial walls is a frequent cause
of trouble. Apart from a simple diet, with cur-
tailment of alcohol, acids and red meat, take
frequent aperient salines, keep legs warm and
protected from chills. Indulge in a warm soda-
bath at night, and after drying massage the
leg upwards with equal parts methylated spirits
and olive oil. Analgesic liniment (containing
oil of wintergreen) may be smeared on occa-
sionally for relief of pain. Internally, iodine
in an assimilable form may be helpful.
* * * *
When tonsils are removed should the ex-
ternal fauces go with them ? In the event of
one of these being torn would it cause a feeling
of a paralysed nature, and, if so, would this
be temporary or permanent? —1315.
The fauces may be involved in the tonsil
operation. Severed nerves result in local numb-
ness, which is usually permanent. Some coi-
rection is possible with operation.
(1) 1 wish to store some gladioli bulbs for
planting in January. How should they be pie-
pared ? (2) Cause of leaves going yellow in
strawberries and chrysanthemums, only occa-
sional plants being affected ? Cure, if any ?
(3) Cause of rhubarb wilting ? Cure, if any.'
Soil is heavy black loam, and drainage satis-
factory. (4) How to propagate Norfolk Island
pine ? —844. ,
(1) Store in a cool, dark, dry place, not
necessarily a cool store, although in such there
would be a better chance of retarding growth.
See that the bulbs are properly matured,
cleaned and dried off before storing, and watch
for signs of growth or rot whilst in storage.
The bulbs should be taken from storage a lew
weeks before it is proposed to plant. (2)
This may be brought about by bad drainage,
unsuitable soil, red spider and other causes.
Without further information it cannot definitely
be accounted for. (3) Have not heard ot
rhubarb being so attacked. Suggest transferring
the plants to new ground that has been well
worked. (4) Plants are propagated from
seed, either sown in boxes or in a shady posi-
tion in the open ground.
* * * *
The leaves of my coleus are faulty in color.
What can be done to overcome this ? —997.
Color defect is due to the plants being kept
too much in the shade. A position near glass
where the sun will strengthen them will bring
out the colors. The addition of leaf-mould
to the potting material is an excellent tonic
to force the color. Established plants thrive
with a weekly dose of weak liquid manure.
* * * *
(1) How should I treat crepe myrtle badly
affected with powdery mildew ? (2) When
should cuttings be taken for propagation?
(3) Varieties and colors of this shrub 3—1009.
(1) Spray the affected leaves and stems with
Bordeaux mixture or lime-and-sulphur (trade
strength), and gather up all fallen leaves and
burn them. In June and August dig about
the base plenty of wood ashes or sulphate of
potash (ilb. per shrub) to fortify against the
disease next year. (2) Cuttings of firm,
seasoned wood taken in June or July will
root quickly in soil containing a big percentage
of sand. (3) Eavesi (heliotrope), Indica rubra
(red), Ovalifolia (pink), Matthewsi (mauve) and
Flos regina (bright pink) are the named varie-
ties.
* * * *
(1) To get prize flowers from bulbs, what
manure should 1 use, and when should it be
applied? (2) How to treat lily-of-the-valley
at this time ? —986. .
(1) Give the beds a good dressing ot pul-
verised cow manure at least a month before
planting. Avoid forcing chemical fertilisers
such as nitrate of soda or sulphate of am-
monia ; but a sprinkling of blood-and-bone
manure placed about 6in. from the bulbs and
watered in will stimulate growth. Weak liquid
horse or cow manure applied when the buds
show is beneficial. (2) Fortify the crowns
by giving them plenty of liquid manure, and
when the foliage dies down in winter cover
with an inch dressing of thoroughly decayed,
finely-pulverised manure to which has been
added 25 p.c. of sand. Plant fresh crowns in
May and June, covering with about lin. of
soil. The plump crowns will flower in Novem-
ber; but the thin pointed crowns may not
flower until next year. Beds of lily-of-the-
valley should not be disturbed by digging, or
the flowering will suffer.
Does Anybody Know?
Name of insurance co. or friendly society
in Sydney to which old-age pensioners, by the
payment of. 6d. weekly, are assured of funeral
expenses at death? —1375.
Brief Answers.
W.K.: Appointments to commissioned rank
in the Permanent Military Forces are made
from graduates of the Royal Military Col-
lege, Duntroon. Particulars regarding con-
ditions of entry and rates of pay may be
obtained on application to the District Base
Commandant, 2nd Military District, Victoria
Barracks, Sydney. It is not necessary to have a
private income to be eligible for appointment
to a permanent commission... .G.A.C.; (1)
Textbooks such as Mineral and Aerated Waters,
by Mitchell; technical journals such as “Aus-
tralian Food Manufacturer and Distributor.”
(2) One or two Australian firms supply such
machinery. They include Mauri Bros, and
Thomson, Sydney, and Progressive Engineer-
ing Cos., Darlinghurst, Sydney. (3) Consult
firms mentioned above... .M.S.: (1) Regis-
tration under the specified Acts and payment of
sales tax on sales would not be required pro-
vided the goods which you intend to market
are manufactured by you and their sale value
does not exceed £6O. (2) Owing to the in-
troduction of the Sales Tax (Securities and
Exemptions) Act 1935, bonds are not required.
The Commissioner of Taxation, however, may
require any person registered under the Acts
to give security... .J.M.0.D.; Approach any
of the repertory theatre societies regarding
production, though you should ascertain be-
forehand whether you are legally entitled to
produce the work... .P.W.8.: At the nearest
census, that of 1911, the population of Canada
was given as 7,206,643 persons, and at the
same rate of increase as over the previous
decade (34.17, or roughly 180,000 per year) it
would be approximately seven and a half
million by the middle of 1913. Population ol
Australia at the end of June, 1913, was
4,802,174 H.M.R.: Dividends received from
the cos. mentioned are not subject to Q’land
State income tax, but are taken into con-
sideration for fixing amount of statutory ex-
emption, allowance for dependants and rate
of tax payable on other income. They do,
however, form part of assessable income under
the Federal Act, and are subject to tax, but a
rebate is allowable with respeot to tax paid by
a co. on part of dividends included in a
taxpayer’s taxable income... .G.C.W.: Plans
and specification for gliders and “Pou du Ciel”
aircraft are obtainable from P. J. Pratt, Bel-
mont Common, Geelong. In connection with
the construction of “Pou du Ceil” aircraft, you
should get in touch with the Defence Depart-
ment regarding its requirements N.R.S.:
Don’t know of any representative an-
thology of Australian war poems. Several
books of war poems by various Australian
poets, notably Leon Gellert and Edwin
Gerard, were published, but most are out
of print now J.D.: Cannot trace the
firm R.R.: Approx, cost of analysis (quali-
tative), 6s. Bd. for each metal determination;
formula, from three to five guineas. Dixon
and Byrn, Reiby-lane, Sydney... .N.M.; Pos-
sibly inherited or acquired through personal
associations, diet, etc. Any malformation
should be corrected. Cure possible with self-
will and determination. Avoid worry on the
subject. Adopt an outdoor hobby, indulge in
a cold shower or plunge bath each morning,
and exercise daily according to your occupa-
tion. Curtail red meat and condiments in the
diet; take frequent aperient salines. Medicinal
treatment is not advised E.E.; (1) As,
apparently, the two blocks were sold as a
whole, you cannot now dissever them and
appropriate the purchase money separately.
When you have completed payment you should
receive a certificate of title for the whole. (2)
Very unlikely that any bank would advance
the money unless you have some acceptable
security to lodge covering the advance....
G.H.: See Armature Winding, by Morton and
Dunlop (145.), and Dynamo Design and Con-
struction, by A. H. Avery (ss. 3d.).
M.K.K.: Unlikely that the photograph is an
original. It seems to be a Diamond Jubilee
group; probably sold wholesale at that time....
A.R.W.: Get in touch with Tait Book Cos.,
Melbourne, or Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
R.M.: The artist is unknown, and it is
unlikely that the picture has any value
R.F.5.8.: London (1931), 8,202,818; New
York (1930), 6,930,446; Tokio (1932),
5,312,000; Berlin (1925), 4,000,000; Shanghai
(1931) 3,550,000; Chicago (1930), 3,376,438;
Paris (1931), 2,871,039; Moscow (1931),
2,800,000; Osaka (1930), 2,600,000; Leningrad
(1932) 2,783,600; Buenos Ayres (1932),
2,215,000; and Philadelphia (1930), 1,950,961.
... .L.W.: (1) Good results have been obtained
with emulsified oil treatment for pneumonia
and other infective fevers. Olive oil is used
in its preparation, the minute globules of the
oil being negatively charged with electricity
in the finished product. The theory is that
negative electrons neutralise toxic influences in
tissues and the bloodstream. (2) Physiological
Labs., Ltd., Wembley Chambers, 104 Hunter-
street, Sydney. (3) Price, 12s. 6d. per 10 c.c.;
treatment, approx, five guineas. (4) Prelimi-
nary instruction is necessary... .M.F.: See
Portrait Studio Lighting, by Frank Fraprie
(11s.), Studio Portrait Lighting, by H. Lam-
bert (17s. 6d.) and Portrait Lighting, by Towle
(255.)... .G.R.C.: Write to the editor of
“Poultry,” 13 Goulburn-street, Sydney
M.A.; Secrets of Scene Painting and Stage
Effects, by Van Dyke Brown (7s. 6d.)....
D.N.: It is impossible to state the value of
the etchings without inspecting them....
A.C.: See Browne and Bullen’s Practical
Taxidermy (11s. 3d.)... .A.R.W.; A short list
of books which may interest you has been
posted... .L.G.P.P.: The value of “Punch,”
Vol. I, would be about 10s., but condition
must be perfect... .G.M.L.; (1) The Shorter
Oxford English Dictionary, two vols. (£4 10s.).
(2) A Guide to Public and Social Life (10s. 6d.).
(3) Best book on the subject is May’s Parlia-
mentary Procedure S.L.: (1) You would
address him as “Mr. Chief Justice,” or, if he
had a title, by his title, as “Sir John.” (2)
“Mr. Justice.” (3) “Judge”... .A.S.R.: See
Windmills and Wind Motors (Is. 6d.), obtain-
able from Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-
street, Sydney E.L.J.W.: Write Agricultural
Department, Brisbane... .J.K.: Get in touch
with one of the island traders... .W. 8.: The
Vic. Nurses’ Board requires that every trainee
shall, before commencing training, produce at
least the merit certificate of Victoria or evi-
dence from the headmaster or headmistress of
a secondary school that a standard above that
certificate has been reached. For other infor-
mation regarding the training of a nurse, refcr
to the matron of the training school selected.
I.W.: Question too vague. Set out qualifi-
cations in detail....T.J.G.; Write Fairbanks
Morse Cos., 29 Clarence-street, Sydney....
(Many others mailed.)


u
ML
g\
■
Ml
>o6fr>«y»>lVS^» , »VW«*»\*>»V\^«>«*VWVVVV^X«*C»C >
The Lines of a Beautiful Car
YET ALL TRUCK
THROUGHOUT
Beautiful . . . smart . . . flashing . . . here is the van that will
create an atmosphere of quality and efficiency in your delivery
service ... the van that is at once your smartest travelling
salesman and the best advertisement your business can have.
International's newest half-ton vans set a new standard of
elegance—yet here is all the sturdy ruggedness and endurance that has made
International famous in the world of transport.
In these new models, International's brute-strength and lion-hearted staying-power
are elegantly dressed in the streamlined beauty and pleasing proportions of the
most modern motor car.
YOUR business demands a van that will give confidence to the customers who see it
standing outside their doors. Come and have a look at these Internationals, get
behind the wheel and drive one—notice the attention it causes on the streets, and
imagine the advertisement your business will receive when your firm's name is
displayed on its shining panels.
Other INTERNATIONAL Models
Model C-30, the lowest priced 6-cylinder 35 cwt.
truck in International history, is cutting transport costs
everywhere, handling, as it does, 60% of all truck
work. Models C-35 and C-40—the 2 and 3 tonners
—are speedy, adaptable, economical 6-cylinder units
with plenty of power and typical International quality
. . . great trucks for all-round heavy haulage.
International Models C-50, C-55 and C-60 handle
the heavy loads from 4 tons upwards.
CHASSIS PRICES:
ti 3" wheelbase
£267
125" wheelbase £275
(Plus UV)
k
ķ
k
The International 6-cylinder Utility combines
truck toughness and power with the appear-
ance, comfort and flexibility of a modern car.
m
M.
XX!
M
The International Utility with a wellside
body—a popular adaption for many users of
this speedy and attractive runabout.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Q 14308.
4
m
A SLANT ON MELBOURNE.
Previously a denizen of Sydney North
Shore suburbs, I have been in Melbourne
three months, and until the other day I
felt like a fish out of its native element.
I played golf at Albert Park ; and there
was a general raising of eyebrows when
I asked what par was. In Melbourne
they call it the “standard scratch score,”
abbreviated to “S.S.S.” In Melbourne also
they play what they call “Australian”
football. I felt a stranger, almost a tres-
passer, when I tried to follow a game.
I saw a brother-journalist to the altar
at St. Kilda. Then for the first time I
realised that home wasn’t quite a million
miles away.
But I still wanted a real slant on Mel-
bourne. I wanted to see the city from
its most revealing angle, from the back
as well as from the front. In the end
my chance came, and I got my slant on
Melbourne. And then I made the great
discovery that Melbourne also has a
slant.
I was a guest of Holyman’s Airways.
The shining, beautiful new Douglas D.C.2
had been tested the day before, and I
and other more important. people were
taken up on one of its first passenger
trips. *
Fourteen of us got in, and a “hostess”
made sure we were ‘comfortable. We
taxied to one end of the; aerodrome,
raced the engines a moment, and then —
off down the runway and into the airi
We climbed a thousand feet, or so,
stopped climbing and then stopped alto-
gether.' . We hung in the sky for 20
minutes without moving, shaking or hav-
ing to raise our voices in speaking. And
it was during this time that Melbourne
“did its stuff,” and I became acquainted
with the real manner of the city.
It moves very smoothly. I had been
assured of this before I left Sydney, but
here was proof. Essendon moves with
an anti-clockwise motion, and generally
this is true of the rest of Melbourne,
though some parts move faster than
others. And it is just such sections of
the city which have a slant. They slanted
at various angles, but never in a manner
to make you feel really surprised.
There we were, hanging comfortably
on an even keel, talking, smoking and
looking out of the windows, while Mel-
bourne slanted, turned graceful curves,
went from sunshine to shade beneath us
all in the space of minutes. It’s a really
wonderful city.
Not all of Melbourne slants. After
we’d been up about 15 minutes the Bay
became perfectly horizontal again, big
fields levelled up underneath us, and —
it just shows you how well-regulated
Melbourne is—here was Essendon aero-
drome alow again.
The pilots at this stage decided .o
come down. They probably thought
we’d get bored just hanging up there,
doing nothing, with not even the wind
ruffling us. So the Douglas was put
down leisurely, the hostess opened the
door, and out we got. Then we had after-
noon tea.
I know Melbourne now. 1 have seen
the backyards of Fitzroy, the mansions
of Toorak, life on St. Kilda-road, and a
football game from what I believe to be
the proper angle. In a word, I think
I am now acquainted with the Mel-
bourne slant. For this my thanks to
Holyman’s and their Douglas!
I intend going further into this slant
business before I return to Sydney
to see if the idea can’t be transferred.
The City Council or the Weather
Bureau may be interested. 1 took my
camera up with me, and if the snaps
come out all right there’ll be plenty of
evidence as to what I have here deposed.
D. A.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Keera Welter: Hostile; next,
Master Motley.
Nonga Handicap: Sarokos ; next;
Serlodi.
Morang Handicap: Gay Pop;
next, Flying Glance.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Trial Stakes: Nabob ; next, Poi
Bounce or The Freak.
Auburn Handicap: Moonray;
next, Disalto.
Rosehill Handicap: Jovial Son ;
next, Fair Diana.
Highweight Handicap: Young
Crusader; next, Poi Bounce or
Buonarroti.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Charley Hodson has begun well with
the horses left in his charge by G. J. Bar-
ton when that ML. sportsman returned
home after giving evidence at the hearing
of the appeal which his former trainer,
S. G. Ware, made without success to the
V.R.C. committee. Ware was disquali-
fied for twelve months over the running
of Gay Circle at Epsom on April 4.
Hodson temporarily took control of the
Barton string, and those not disposed of
at a recent auction have remained with
him. Believing that seven furlongs was
too short a distance for Jack Horner,
Hodson did not greatly fancy him for the
Boisdale Welter at Mentone on Saturday,
and five rivals were preferred to the Cap-
tain Bunsby colt in the betting.
The finish was the most exciting of the
afternoon. Master Motley, who shared
favoritism with Flying Glance, came into
the straight with a seemingly unbeatable
lead, but Skidmore used the whip with
telling effect on Fred Hoysted’s candi-
date, Buteman, and he had caught Master
Motley when Jack Horner came with a
lightning rush. The judge decided for
Jack Horner by a head, with Buteman
another head in advance of Master Mot-
ley, Racing for ■ the first time in the
colors of Alex. Higgins, who bought him
for shipment to Asia immediately
after the Ascot victory on May 2, Flying
Glance carried his 9st. 81b. to a credit-
able fourth.
Jack Horner had only 7st. 111 b., but
he is capable of much improvement and
should be heard of in better company
over a longer journey. Barton, the
owner, occupies a position in the M.L.
meat industry analogous to that of W.C.
Angliss in Victoria. His choice of Hod-
son as a trainer promises good results.
Hodson prepared Fujisan for his 1925
Doncaster Handicap triumph. Early this
season he won races with Queen Craft,
who died as the result of an accident.
Hodson says that Queen Craft was the
fastest galloper that ever he handled.
The Mewburn Hurdle was packed
with sensations, despite there being only
six runners. Ras Kassa, the favorite,
jumped magnificently until he took off
too far at an obstacle in the straight and
gave Alex. Fullarton a fall. Boomberry,
a big-framed gelding belonging to H. E.
Connolly, moved up into second position
at the turn out of the straight, but
crashed heavily at the seven-furlongs
post and brought down Dakwood. Dak-
wood staggered to his feet three times,
only to collapse as if fatally injured.
However, he recovered a few minutes
later, and it was found that the horse
had merely sustained concussion. Jockey
Douglas (Dakwood) escaped injury, but
Meredith (Boomberry) was removed to
the Alfred Hospital in a dangerous con-
dition.
Cape. Race, a 15-to-l shot, won, finish-
ing very strongly to vanquish the pace-
maker, Wapho, by less than a length. He
belongs to W. R. Kemball.
Harry Freeman annexed the first
division of the Avon Handicap for Mrs.
G. Hore with Golden Light, a colt by
Brazen —Spring Morn. Favorite was
Heroic Chief, a brother to Valiant Chief.
On the strength of a first-up win at the
beginning of the season big things were
expected of Heroic Chief, but the colt
has not furnished so well as Archie
Crofts and his trainer, F. W. Hoysted,
expected, and looks undersized. The out-
ing at Mentone will benefit Heroic Chief ;
Hoysted had not given him much to do
on the tracks.
Silver Reign, a colt by High Art or
Silvius from Aulone, had! two lengths to
spare in the second division of the Avon
Handicap, but he may have been lucky
to beat Lou Robertson’s representative,
Dictator, a colt by Chivalrous-Miss
Neville. The apprentice rider of Dictator
got into difficulties, and lacked the
strength to get all that was possible out
of his mount. M. S. Cooper, of the
V.A.T.C. committee, was so little
enamored of the prospects of Silver
Reign that he did not put a shilling on
his colt and attended a football match.
E. Preston, who served his apprentice-
ship with H. R. Telford, rode three suc-
cessive winners at Mentone. He took the
Tinamba Plate on The Sky Patrol (6 to 1),
the Powerscourt Handicap on Count Or-
loff (7 to 1) and the Boisdale Welter on
Jack Horner (8 to 1). Punters again “got
it in the neck,” not a single first-favorite
catching the eye of the judge. The cur-
tain rolled down on Heroic Dove (15 to
1) romping home in advance of Dah
(2 to 1) in the Tinambra Purse. Heroic
Dove hails from the Ballarat district, and
has a habit of visiting the metropolis at
long intervals to confound backers who
place faith in public form.
* * * *
Consistent horses are nearly always
good horses. There is no doubt about
Grand Boy’s consistency or his worth. A
powerfully-built chestnut gelding, son of
Grand Joy—Rodent, Grand Boy did not
begin racing until March, finishing out
of a place at Menangle. Then he won
at Kembla Grange, Rosebery and Moore-
field, and finally at Randwick on Satur-
day, and on each occasion was never
extended.
The handicapper awarded Grand Boy
9st. at Randwick. He had to concede
weight to such winners as Shakespeare,
Peanut, Bela and Royal Step, and a stone
to Punjab, who is thought to be a likely
Derby colt, and the bookmakers took
liberties with the gelding; from 7t04 he
eased to 9 to 4. McCarten pulled him
in behind Black Gauntlet and Bela to
the turn, and, going round that pair at
the Leger, he left the result in no doubt
over the last furlong. Peanut was fourth ;
Punjab, slow to move at first, came
home well in fifth place.
Dark Sky’s brother Moonray, who is
raced by F. W. Hill and E. G. Whitla,
the latter a Queensland pastoralist, did
the Ring a good turn —one of several —
by leading throughout in the Flying Han-
dicap. He had been costly to his party
since running second to Regular Bachelor
at Rosehill before that horse was taken
south tor the Futurity and the New-
market, and was allowed to go out at 12
to 1. Having shaken off Prince Pombal,
Moonray went a bit wide at the top of
the straight, allowing Disalto to come
through on the rails. For a few strides,
Disalto held him ; then the favorite faded,
and Moonray went on to beat Cabalist
(6 to 1) and Thebez (6 to 1). Jaccuse was
fourth ; he will be returning to the list
of winners shortly.
Moonray is trained by Booth. That
veteran Rosehill trainer completed a
double when Fair Diana (8 to 1) had a
runaway win in the James Barnes Plate.
Curby, who had ridden Moonray, was on
Fair Diana. Never further back than
third, she cleared out at the Leger to beat
Urunalong and Oro by lengths. Barak,
the favorite, gave an inglorious display.
He isn’t much of a horse. Fair Diana,
who cost her owner, S. W. Phillips, 625
guineas this season, is a sister to Hope,
by Heroic —Rythona.
Dick Wootton’s mare Zulander (8 to 1)
got such a break on her field in the
Novice Handicap that her opponents got
tired chasing her. Menu was ridden by
Darby Munro, who waited for the last
run, but j Menu failed to stay arid was
beaten for second by Spark, a son of
Marconigram, who flashed up on the
rails in the last furlong. Gipsy Chief
was fourth. This good-looking brother
to Baltimore needs more racing.
High, a disappointment at the Easter
meetings, won the Welter, and pastoralist
Victor White and his friends must have
got back all their losses on him—High
was backed from twelves to sixes. The
race provided a thrilling finish. Bombus
is not a genuine miler, but he hung on
surprisingly well, and was beaten only
in the last stride. Bundar’s third was a
sterling effort; he was forced wide turn-
ing for home and lugged in near the
judge. Young Crusader, the favorite, was
in all sorts of bother.- He finished on
fifth, just behind Fireman. Cherry King,
last (of 13) at the half-mile, did well to
run sixth.
* * * =i=
Sent to Adelaide after some of the
rich purses hung up this centenary year,
Croden Lad ran in the Cheltenham Park
Handicap at the Port Adelaide club’s
meeting, and demonstrated that up to
five furlongs he was about the fastest
handicap horse in the Commonwealth,
though the distinction had been claimed
for Heritor. Five furlongs was the dis-
tance, and with 9st. 91b. up Crowden-
nis’s son won the race easily in 591 sec.
Within two days he was dead of inflam-
mation of the bowels. Very bad luck
for the animal and his owner (Mrs.
Sprod) and lessee (Homann)..
Had Croden Lad lived he might have
won the S.A.J.C. Goodwood Handicap
at Morphettville; as it was, the six-
furlongs race went to one of the greatest
outsiders on record: Agargil, by Den-
acre —Nebulae. Agargil is owned by his
breeder, G. P. Spensley, who says he
didn’t have a penny on the horse and
was annoyed that the trainer, Graetz, did
not give him “the oil.” The trainer,
whose son had the mount, explains that
he did not think it worth while com-
municating with Spensley because the
horse was a “windsucker” and had been
racing badly. Fifty to one in the ring,
Agargil returned tote backers £67 18s.
straightout and £l3 16s. place, each for
£l. Anton Hill was second and Petunia
Park third.
There was a tote double on the
Goodwood and Fisher Handicaps, the
latter being won by Celotex (12 to 1).
The Agargil-Celotex dividend was £ll3
2s. 6d., and since the doubles tote pays
first and second also (“books” never do)
those who coupled Agargil with Alinura,
runner-up in the Fisher Handicap and 7
to 1 in the ring, drew £25 2s. 9d.
* * * *
Thalwyn, winner of the Q.T.C. More-
ton Handicap a year ago, made it two
at Ascot on Saturday, and went out at a
remunerative price—7 to 1. The task
was lightened for him by the withdrawal
of Lough Neagh. Brown Force was
favorite with Silver Standard, and the
three-year-old ran a good second.
Ruffian being third. Thalwyn, like so
many good horses racing in his State, is
Queensland-bred, being by Syce Knight
—Rose Alwynton.
High Speech, who had beaten every-
thing but Capris in the Stradbroke Han-
dicap, captured a good consolation prize
for the Sheans in the Flying Handicap.
He was a 2-to-l favorite, and ran
“six” in Imin. 12|sec. This form sug-
gests another victory for Capris in the
Doomben Newmarket, in which she has
Bst. 131 b., with a 7st. minimum. The
weight will not trouble her.
* * * *
Limond is dead in Maoriland, where
he sired many good horses. Limerick
was the best of them, but Ammon Ra,
Veilmond and Limarch were good, and
altogether Limond’s progeny earned for
their owners upwards of £200,000 in prize-
money. The defunct was by Desmond —
Lindal; Desmond was a son of St.
Simon, and Lindal a daughter of Kendal
and a half-sister to the dam of Phalaris.
♦ * * * *
Doubtless inspired by Melbourne
examples, the A.J.C. is increasing prize-
money for important races. The Epsom
is to be worth £2600 instead of £2OOO,
the Metropolitan £SOOO instead of £4OOO.
* * * *
David is coming into the picture at
last as" a sire. He was a grand-looking
racehorse who could stay for a week, and
success at the stud was predicted for
him, but somehow it didn’t happen for
several years. Now offspring of Otway
Falkiner’s horse, whose sire (Baverstock)
was a son of the great Wakeful, are pick-
ing up useful races. For example, while
Boonewa, by David —Swan Song, was
winning the Loddon Trial Hurdle at
Ascot (Vic.) in a style that suggested a
prosperous career over the sticks, Dark
David, by David —Micology, was beat-
ing a pretty good field in the Kimberley
Handicap at, Perth. Dark David has
had several victories this season, and
seems to be about the best middle-
distance horse now racing in the West.
* * * #
“Cockatoo”: An ingenuous defence
was put up in a Brisbane s.p. case.
The police said they found the gentleman
in a passage, with a pencil and a betting
sheet in his hands. Defendant said he
had been working out a crossword puzzle
in his billiard saloon, and, stuck for the
right word, wandered into the passage in*
meditation. There he saw a piece of
paper on a ledge, and, picking it up,
found it was a betting sheet. Then the
police hopped in, and, in spite of ex-
planations and production of the cross-
word puzzle, lumbered him. Twenty
pounds or 40 days.
* * * *
“Kirkwall”: The Fairway blood got
another advertisement when Lord Derby’s
filly Tideway won the Thousand Guineas
over the Rowley Mile at Newmarket.
Following on the win of Pay Up in the
Two Thousand the stock of the Phalaris
sire should go up considerably. Pay Up
is in the Derby, and at time of writing is
favorite.
Footbrawl
Already it is evident that Carlton is
going to be very hard to beat for the
V.F.L. premiership. On Saturday it over-
whelmed Essendon, 21-19 to 5-13.
Richmond has fallen from its high estate,
proving no match for Collingwood ; the
Magpies scored 16-12 to 10-12. On
the previous Saturday Richmond had
scraped home by a point from St. Kilda,
and South Melbourne showed that the
form was nothing out of the way by van-
quishing St. Kilda, 12-17 to 10-11. Good
goal-kicking enabled Geelong to defeat
North Melbourne, 11-8 to 9-14, .North’s
showing being a surprise agreeable to
everyone but Geelong supporters; and
superior shooting likewise gave a wel-
come victory to Hawthorn at Footscray’s
expense, 11-7 to 8-20. Hawthorn has
the makings of a good team, and pro-
mises to do better this season than ever
before. In a heavy scoring game Mel-
bourne always had a bit the better of
Fitzroy, finishing with 15-17 to 9-14.
Collingwood, South, Carlton and Rich-
mond were “the four” in 1935, ’Wood
winning the premiership. Already the
Magpies, South and Carlton look like
being in “the four” again, but there are
haunting doubts concerning Richmond.
* * * *
Sydney University’s Rugby Union
team is still winning, though North,
Drummoyne and Parramatta have run
the students close. On Saturday, Parra-
matta scored four tries to ’Varsity’s two,
but lost because of the penalties it gave
away: 18-17. Randwick, the other un-
beaten side—they meet on Saturday—had
an easy run against Gordon after half-
time: 45-11. North (12 ; three tries) beat
Manly (11 ; two tries) in a ragged game
in which the forwards did the best
work, and West, snatching a try towards
the end, got the verdict over East, 19-15 ;
four tries to one. St. George was
trounced again, this time by Drum-
moyne, 17-3 ; also four tries to one.
Richards, a solid Randwick five-
eighth—he was a half last season —is
captain of the N.S.W. team for Queens-
land. Bedford, also of Randwick, is full-
back.
(Continued on next page.)
In Victoria, Geelong College is head-
of-the-river at last. With a boatful oi
big boys, it succeeded at its twenty-
eighth attempt, leading from start to
finish on the Barwon. Wesley College
was second, a length and a quarter away,
and Geelong Grammar third.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: According to the cables,
Helen Wills-Moody has extended the
friendly mitt to the U.S.A. tennis heads,
with whom she has been at variance for
so ■ long, and will' play in the national
championships at Forest Hills. Helen
will also figure at Wimbledon.
w * * *.
“Hotham”: There is a move afoot by
the rowing and swimming folk to have
power of selection for the Olympiad
taken from the Olympic Council. The
idea is that each athletic body shall pick
its own team and pay its expenses in-
stead of contributing to the Olympic levy
—or sidestepping it, as has mostly been
the case! With all unions and associa-
tions doing this the situation should be
interesting. For one thing, a special
ship would have to be chartered to take
the mob overseas. Meanwhile, the
Olympic constitution vests authority for
selection and transport of teams in a
body representing the central Olympic
Council in each country, and takes no
notice of individuals or single organisa-
tions.


S4VAGE
presents
a new and better .22
Model
3-S
single shot
Priced low; has
“line-gun” features.
18 different combinations of front and rear
sights. Adjustments for elevation and wind-
age. Broad fore-end gives a full, firm grip.
Amazingly accurate barrel. Also made in
6-shot repeater (Model 4-S) and with open
sights, single and repeater. Get a Savage
and you’ll get the best.
AT YOUR DEALER’S.
If he cannot supply yon, write our
Exclusive Representative,
ASHER SMITH, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Abo. boxers are going through an
unlucky period. Richards, the best of
them, has been beaten in his last couple
of bouts, and his match with Henneberry
has been postponed once more —-for five
weeks this time, Henneberry having sus-
tained a thumb fracture. And Roberts,
probably the next-best, was stopped in
four rounds at Leichhardt on Wednesday
by an American welterweight named
Bennett. Roberts could punch, but was
always slow. Apparently he is slower
than ever and can no longer “take it.”
# * * *
Sydney chuckled when Cohen, the 17-
year-old bantamweight, explained his
reason for withdrawing from the Olympic
team or a pressman explained it for him.
He “feared” he “might become involved
in some trouble over Hitler’s persecu-
tion of the Jews.” The youth has won a
four-round bout at the Stadium, but only
one paper went into raptures over his
showing. Meanwhile people who are
trying to form a Boxers and Trainers’
Union have been explaining what pugs
get for fighting “prelims.”—los. a round
at the Stadium; 30s. for four rounds,
50s. for six rounds and £4 for 10 rounds
at Leichhardt; and at other halls, 20s.
for four rounds, “40s. win and 30s. lose”
for “semi-sixes,” £3 for eight rounds and
£4 for 10 rounds. Cohen should have
gone to Berlin and risked being scalped
by the Nazis.
Footbrawl
“Nark”: A N.S.W. country League
football official has been growling about
the degeneracy of the modern player.
He says his gladiators expect to be begged
to play, to be supplied with jerseys, stock-
ings and boots, to have a lemon put in
their mouths and to be rubbed down after
a game. The free-kit cadge is not con-
fined to the League, being popular in the
amateur Union also. When writer
played inter-State Union football, all the
free issue he got was his State jersey
and stockings—all else he found himself,
including pocket money on tour. Club
players found their own jerseys as well,
and often paid their own travelling and
housing expenses.
* * H= *
“Cash Amateur”: The American
sports promoter now in Sydney trying to
arrange a tour of professional athletes
for this country has been appointed am-
bassador plenipotentiary to the United
States by the Rugby League. The gentle-
man has warned his principals tnat if
the game is taken up in America it has
no hope of getting into the amateur uni-
versities, which are the cradle of U.S.A.
football, but will have to be “a working-
man’s game” —whatever that may mean.
* $ $
“Toot Sweet”: A University delegate
at a Sydney Rugby League meeting pro-
tested against the abuse of the whistle
by referees. In one first-class match he
had counted 216 blasts, and at a match
last season the count was 236 for the
80 minutes. No use blaming the referee.
The cause of the trouble is the rule en-
joining a scrum for every stoppage for
which a free kick is not provided. This
eternal scrumming is the curse of the
game, and until the League goes back to
the Rugby Union alternative of the line-
out or some equivalent a curse it will
remain.
?jc sfc :((
“Gate”; Rugby Leaguers are rising in
the social scale. In the past players in
inter-State and other big matches have
received their pay in proletarian pounds.
A motion before the Sydney League is
that for this season’s games against
Queensland and the Englishmen the fig-
ures be raised to 10 and 15 respectively,
and guineas at that —none of your
quids!
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Under the terms of the
agreement with the football bodies Syd-
ney Cricket Ground trustees have
allotted July 4 and 11 to the Rugby
Union for its inter-State matches and
June 20 to Australian-rules footballers.
The Rugby League will be playing Eng-
land and Queensland in Brisbane on the
July dates, but as it has some unimport-
ant club fixtures down for them the
usual bellow of protest against their
allotment to the R.U. may be expected.
* * * ♦
“Touchline”: The Rugby Union inter-
state fixtures start with N. S. Wales
tripping to Bananaland, where Queens-
land will be tackled at Brisbane on May
23, Newcastle being encountered on the
journey north on May 20. The Queens-
land mid-week match will be against the
tough Toowoomba side, and the second
inter-State match at Brisbane on May 30.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: The Union code is
forging ahead in Queensland, helped by
the long-standing feud between the Bris-
bane and Queensland Leagues. A
country Rugby Union has been formed
to handle the game in Toowoomba,
Warwick and other Downs centres, while
Union clubs are making their appearance
in the North. There is a great chance for
the Queensland heads here. Unbiased
and wise control would soon bring the
amateur code back to the strength of pre-
war days.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Auckland Rugby
Union is blaming golf as a worse threat
to the amateur code than the League
game. It is increasingly difficult to get
competent referees, retiring players taking
up golf instead of becoming umpires, as
used to be the almost invariable case.
This is true of this country also. Worse
still, young players of promise on leaving
school are now apt to turn to golf in-
stead of playing grade football, especially
in N.S.W. There the game has become
rougher in the last few seasons.
•!* *i*
“Ellis Park”: The South African R.U.
adopted a tentative programme for the
tour of Australia and M.L. at its annual
meeting. It has suggested 29 matches,
eight in the Commonwealth and 21 in
Maoriland, with five Tests —three against
the All-Blacks and two against Aus-
tralia, Westralia and South Australia are
asking for matches. These may be
thrown in as extras. They should cer-
tainly be staged, if possible.
if * * *
“Outside Right”: The selection of 15
players for the Australian Soccer team
“He’ll be orright—that forward only kicked him in the face. We’re lucky
it Wasn’t his ankle!”
to tour Maoriland has brought the usual
shrieks of protest. Only nine of the
selected men come from N.S.W., the
other places being grabbed by Vic-
torians, South Australians and Queens-
landers.
Racquet and Bawl
“Oh Cli”: China had a short and sweet
trot in its first round of the Davis Cup
at Paris, France winning the first singles
and doubles off the reel. Boussus and
Destremeaux downed Kho and Cheng in
the singles, and Borotra and Bernard
outed Kho and ex-Australian Gordon
Lum in the doubles. Destremeaux is the
new French hope, a protege of Borotra,
who expects him to develop into another
Cochet.
* * * ♦
“Centre Court”: There doesn’t seem
much wrong with Perry. He went through
all opposition in the Bournemouth hard-
courts tourney, the pipe-opener for big
tennis in England, downing Austin in
the final in three straight sets. Hughes
and Tuckey, both Davis Cup doubles
representatives, beat Maorilanders Mal-
froy and Stedman in the doubles final.
This pair will probably play in the
doubles for England, leaving Perry free
to concentrate on the singles.
H*
“Top Spin”: Some tennis enthusiasts
with more zeal than judgment are urging
that the British Davis Cup team should
be invited to Australia after the tourney
is over. Perry is coming, anyway.
Tuckey, who seems to be certain to
partner Hughes in the doubles, is a
gunner officer, and his chance of getting
the necessary leave these dubious times
is not rosy. In any case, the A.L.T.
heads have announced that Germany has
been invited, and until an answer is re-
ceived one way or another no one else
will be considered.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Wimbledon looks
forward to an extra-heavy season. The
Wightman Cup tourney is down for
June 12 and 13, while the All-England
championships run from June 22 to July
4. Then come the Davis Cup inter-zone
final (it begins on July 18), and finally
the challenge round between England and
the winner of that event.
:J: $ * *
“Cut Shot”: The City of Sydney
tennis championships were a triumph for
the Hopman team. Hopman himself
took the singles, the doubles with Turvey
and the mixed doubles with Mrs. H.
Pity Hopman’s services have been lost
to Australia as far as the Davis Cup
team is concerned.
$ * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Secretary Sab-
elli, of the English L.T.A., has circular-
ised the Australian body proposing that,
where players in the Davis Cup tourney
are unable to agree in what language the
umpire shall call the score, the use of
English shall be compulsory. Nothing
is being done, apparently, about what
language a dissatisfied player shall make
his remarks in. Presumably it will be
left to individual inclination.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Tennis-players,
like their opposite numbers in cricket
and football, are .remarkable for lack
of knowledge of the rules. All seem in
agreement with the cricketer who,
taunted with his ignorance, said “Bli-
me, ain’t there two umpire blokes to see
to all that?” A Melbourne happening
is a case in point. A server struck an
opponent who was standing up at the
middle of the net, and the player-umpire
gave it a fault. It should have counted a
point to the server under rule 15, which
says that if a ball in play hits a player,
no matter where he is standing, he loses
the point.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Lytham”: Ferrier makes his next
public appearance in the big golf at St.
Andrews on May 25 and the following
week. The youngster was sorely handi-
capped by the bitter cold in the Scottish
championships, and, given better weather
conditions, should improve on his very
creditable showing then. Perrier’s driv-
ing powers should stand to him well on
the Scottish course, but the narrow fair-
ways will call for straight shooting. He
will need all the practice he can get on
the course before the championship, for
the somewhat cramped layout demands
careful study.
* * * *
“Muirfield”: In addition to his golfing
ability, Jim Perrier shows signs of be-
coming an excellent press correspondent,
his letters to Sydney newspapers being
informative and commendably brief and
to the point. He seems to be greatly
impressed by the vogue and quality of
“artisan” golf. In addition to their own
clubs, many artisans have the free run
of private courses at certain hours on
very moderate terms, an example clubs
like Royal Sydney would do well to
follow. Many of these workingmen are
in the first-class as golfers.
* * * *
“Baffy”: The first junior golf cham-
pionship of N.S.W., staged by the Lakes
club, was a success at all points. The
winner was Davies, of Cammeray
club, whose card showed 155 for the 36
holes. Heard, of Kogarah (159), was
second, and Close (161), of Australian,
third. The star turn of the field of 27 was
J. Palmer, 12 years old and not as high
as his golf bag. His stroking was capital.
Palmer finished last but one with a card
of 199.
* * * *
“Gleneagles”: Denham, the Queens-
land professional golfer, brings back
from Scotland the cheerful news that a
visit from a team of British professionals
is likely in the near future. He sug-
gested the tour during his trip, and found
the idea well received. As he says, Aus-
tralians should benefit by contrasting the
styles of the American players and those
of Britain. The trouble will be getting a
team to make the long journey. All the
big men —and most of the others, too —
are under engagement to British clubs.
Hs * # *
“Hoylake”: A section of British golf-
ers has revived the periodical protest
against the stymie in match play and de-
mands its abolition. There seems to be
no reason why the stymie, or the block-
ing of a player’s ball by his opponent’s
which has got between it and the hole,
should be allowed in match play and not
in stroke. The thing is mostly a matter
of sheer luck, though sometimes it is
deliberately laid when the chance offers.
By mutual agreement in friendly matches
the stymie is often cut out, but as it has
to be played in all competitions it has
to be officially recognised.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Melbourne is wit-
nessing a new experiment in golf links.
The derelict Ivanhoe course, abandoned
by its club when the floods ruined it, has
been leased by Fowler, the professional
at Eastern, and Durant. The course is
being reconditioned, and will be used for
public play. A feature will be the adop-
tion of free tuition in mass lessons, on
the plan now so popular in America, a
professional illustrating the strokes and
the “parade” imitating him. Faults are
corrected during this drill, and lasting
benefit to the game of those taking part
is claimed.
* * * *
“Baffy”; Richardson, the N.S.W.
golfer, has taken delivery of a club
carved entirely from one piece of wood;
it is to be finished off in his workshop.
The wood is wild cherry, and remarkable
distance can be obtained with it. One
way and another, heaps of golf clubs,
especially in the outback, have been satis-
factorily reshafted with Australian
timbers after the original hickory has
been smashed, but local woods have not
come on the market. Manufacturers say
that sufficient matured timbers cannot be
(Continued on page 38.)


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Moss - - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Company
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


m N
'-rmm
m
Never Stopped
Working
13
Another truck owner praises
the dependability and eco-
nomy of V-8 performance.
He says: "My Ford V-8 Tip-
ping Truck has never stopped
work since I got her. She does
more work at less cost than
any truck I have used." Im-
portant V-8 Truck features
are; Full-floating rear axle;
Straddle mounted pinion;
Truck-type clutch and trans-
mission; Safety Glass wind-
screen. Your Ford dealer will
gladly arrange an "on-the-
job" test. Easy purchase terms.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V 8
TRUCKS
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
STEER STRAIGHT FOR SUNSHINE
iw
On a cruising Orient Liner yon
are wailed upon hand and loot
—and deck after deck invites
. you to do as you please. . » »
Whether your mood is for rest
Of play, for society or solitude*
there is room and to spare.
W'IMTER CRUISES
$ BABADt—EARLY JUNE —''OTEAffTO*
PAPUA ~ EARLY JULY "OR AM A"
f FIJI ~ LftTE AUGUST "ORFORD"
# Fire* Saloon only, t first & TotatM Classes
%iHi
iiliift
■
&
•••
mm
LIRE CRUISES
got. If they went looking for them the
supply would soon meet the demand.
* * * *
“Hamilton”; When renaming itself
“GailesGoodna golf club (Q.) sent a
silver kangaroo trophy to the West
Gailes club in Scotland, which it
regards as its godfather. The Cale-
donians have come back with a shield
studded with cairngorms and engraved
with thistles and bluebells. The Queens-
land crowd are setting it up as a trophy
for a special competition.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Some of the larger clubs
in the Sydney suburban district asso-
ciation reckon the time ripe for a revi-
sion of the rules regarding representation.
At present each club has one vote, with
the result that the one with a hundred
members at most has as much power in
the affairs of the association as clubs
with a membership roll running into half
a dozen times that number. The change
proposed is that votes should be allotted
to the clubs on a membership basis.
Miscellaneous
“Bramall Lane”: India made a poor
start again Worcestershire, one of the
weakest of the counties, scoring 229 and
J 50 to 248 and 7 for 134, though Nissar
bagged 5 for 50 in Worcestershire’s
second try. A new fast bowler named
Perks gave the tourists a bad time, and
is already being hailed as Larwood’s
successor.
* * * *
“St. John’s”: G. O. Allen has been in-
vited to lead the Marylebone club’s team
against the Indians at Lord’s on May 16.
All the tipsters have been naming him
for some time past as skipper of the
English side for Australia, and he will
now have a chance to show his paces as
a captain on the easier job.
* * * *
“Thame”: Australia provided the first
century of the English first-class cricket
season, the active agent being R. C. M.
Kimpton, of Melbourne, now in his
second year at Oxford, who scored 101
against Gloucester. He went on to make
another (106). Kimpton, who ’keeps
for the Dark Blues, is described by
“Wisden” as a player of high promise
with a style reminiscent of Macartney.
He was second on the Oxford batting
averages last year with 35.92 and a
highest score of 160. A brother, S.M.,
played several games for the University,
but missed his blue.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Maoriland cricketers are
gradually making their presence felt in
England. Dacre has been a success with
Gloucestershire, and now Dempster,
probably the best batsman M.L. has
turned out, is to captain Leicestershire.
The hunting county, by the way, was
skippered last year by Astill, a profes-
sional, but England is getting so used to
that sort of thing now that not a bellow
of protest was heard. ’Keeper James,
who was rated in the top class of Aunt
Sallies when playing with the All-Blacks,
will figure as a professional with North-
ampton. Curiously enough, Australians,
once as thick as fleas on an old maid’s
poodle in some of the county teams, seem
to have vanished off the map.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The Board of Control got
a first-hand glimpse of the ineptitude of
the Queensland cricket controllers at the
Sydney meeting to consider the adoption
of the amended l.b.w. law. Queensland
voted against adoption—vainly. It
came out that, though the matter has
been under discussion and experiment in
other States for nearly two years and
that the Board met specially to deal
with it, the Q.C.A. had made no attempt
to ask opinions from umpires or club
captains.
Ht $ * *
“Spike”: All the tickets (180,000) for
the Olympic Stadium seats at Berlin were
sold by the end of January. Admission
includes reservation. One wonders
when Australia’s antiquated methods in
matters of the kind will be brought up
to date. In most overseas countries
advance sales and reservations are the
usual thing—an instance is the English
Rugby Union ground at Twickenham,
which seats 80,000 ticket-holders. The
system does away with congestion at
entrances and gate-crashing.
* * * *
“Durani”: Afghanistan is sending a
team to the Olympiad: hockey players
and a jumper. It should be an interest-
ing go if the hockey players meet the
Indian team, mostly composed of old
friends from the Punjab and N.-W. Fron-
tier native regiments just across the bor-
der. One would have liked to see some
wrestlers in the side. The Afghans are
devoted to the sport, and to the inexpert
watcher their rules differ little from those
alleged to govern our version of catch-
as-catch-can, minus the spoof.
“Duiker”: South Africa is relying on
a team of 10 for the Olympiad, only one
girl being included. The men have
records well up to Olympic form, not-
ably Lavery, an outstanding hurdler. A
high-jumper, Thacker, won at the Empire
Games.
* * * *
“Splash”: The Olympic hoodoo con-
tinues. Claire Dennis, after all the wan-
gling to have her selected, cannot go be-
cause of a recurrence of the foot trouble
that bothered her in California. And in
Melbourne the purity of a cyclist’s ama-
teur status has been examined.
* * * *
“Spike”: Olympic candidate Metcalfe
did some good things at Sydney Uni.
sports, putting up new University
records in the javelin throw and the hop,
step and jump. His h., s. and j. was
50ft. s+in.; the Olympic record is 51ft.
7in., but 50ft. has been exceeded twice
only. Pity Metcalfe can’t be restrained
from entering for the whole programme.
At the Sydney meeting he had a shy
at the javelin, the high jump, the lit)
hurdles and the hop. A natural jumper,
he should confine himself to jumping.
* * * *
“Cinders”: The Dominions will
take advantage of the Berlin gathering
to discuss the draft programme ot the
Empire Games to be held in Sydney m
1938. The Australian delegates will be
H. Alderson, manager of the Olympic
team, and Syd Middleton, an original
Wallaby and a member of the Australian
eight which won the Grand Challenge at
Henley in 1912.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Empire Games
committee has revealed the programme
for the meeting at Sydney in February,
1938. The list comprises athletics, box-
ing, cycling, swimming and wrestling.
Bowls has also been incongruously in-
cluded, and the champions of croquet,
ping-pong and mah jongg may well ask
why they have been neglected. The man-
agers of the show accept no responsibility
for any liability outside quarters and food
for athletes and officials during their
stay in Sydney for four weeks —two
weeks before the Games and one week
during the show, with a week for recov-
ery. The programme will have to be
confirmed when the Empire Conference
is held at Berlin.
* * * *
“Blade”: The N.S.W. win in the
King’s Cup race at Perth was a triumph
for the so-called orthodox style. It was
the 54th inter-State race and N.S.W.’s
twelfth win, the last four having been
taken in succession. But N.S.W. has still
a long way to go to equal Victoria’s
record—2B wins. Since the King’s Cup
was tagged on to the race in 1920, N.S.W.
has won five times and Westralia four.
In the sculls Pearce scored the ninth suc-
cessive victory for the senior State.


A
£
ill*
181
I US
seas
Ulll
■ItIHIBI
5!3D
lIOISBI ill>
fill
o
MELBOURNE
Located beside Melbourne Town Hall, the
Victoria is Australia’s largest, most modern
hotel. Every comfort. Unrivalled cater-
ing. Moderate “Room Only” Tariff:
singles, 4/- to 7/6 ; Doubles, 8/- to 16/-
_ per day. Write Department
Cl/ \Vj B 5 for free illustrated
/hC / LS/W booklet.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
AUSTRALIA’S LARCEST.HON-IICFJS:ED HOTEL 1
PACIFIC FORESTS LTD.
’Phone, Write or Call for Any Information re Shares in
the Above Company:
HODSONS INVESTMENTS Limited
INVESTMENT BANKERS,
PACIFIC HOUSE
249 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
’Phone: 82892.
(All Departments .)
INQUIRIES INVITED ABOUT STOCKS AND SHARES
BOTH QUOTED AND UNQUOTED.
«SS»
-«3S
rrt
OS9
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
'HOTEL
SYDMIY
vTiOs*
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Investing for the Future
Conversational post-mortems on gold-
share dealings over the past two years
generally result in one unanimous query;
Who made all the money?
Some punters may have made a little,
others have come out about square, but
many are well on the wrong side. All
will agree that the reward (in money)
for their dabbling has hardly compen-
sated for the time and (often) worry
involved. Some are vastly richer in ex-
perience as to the less reliable side of
human nature. Some are still chasing
their money—from Westralia to Fiji, and
from there to Tennant’s Creek, New
Guinea and Bendigo.
Gold shares are rarely an investment.
The nearest approach to investments
among them in Australia are a few
Golden Mile shows, Wiluna, and Mount
Morgan (Q.). If it could be shown that
one in ten of 1933-35 new flotations was
a moneyspinner (and with gold shares a
big return is expected) the outlook
wouldn’t be so bad. But scarcely one
float in a hundred has resulted in the
development of a substantial and pay-
ing ore-body.
Promoters and vendors often raked
in money. Sharebrokers did wonderfully
well on commission. Bears and “ex-
pert” market operators have probably
cashed in solidly over the last 12 months.
But none of these classes represents the
man in the street. He was generally the
mug.
Life assurance statistics show aston-
ishing figures regarding poverty in old
age. Our Commonwealth pensions bill
of £11,000,000 a year backs them up. It
is obvious that the average man on the
average income can’t afford 100 to 1
shots, as most goldmines are.
Every man, if assurable, should have a
life assurance policy. Every single
woman, if permanently employed and
sufficiently paid, should take out an en-
dowment assurance contract. Once they
see £5OO, with bonuses, coming to them
at, say, age 60, besides having £lOO or so
of ready cash for contingencies, they
may consider other investments. In view
of all the circumstances and develop-
ments of recent years, sound industrial
ordinary shares are here suggested as the
second investment line for the man or
woman of moderate means. That is
leaving house property (as a home) out
of the picture.
Burns Philp, the South Sea and
shipping and investment concern, paid
10 p.c. throughout the slump. The C.S.R.
didn’t alter its rate. Both stocks are
rather highly priced now. Gordon and
Gotch (periodicals, etc.) paid nothing
lower than 8 p.c, (now 10 p.c.), and,
though Yarra Falls (textiles) got down
to 5 p.c. in 1931, the rate rapidly recov-
ered to 10 p.c. These two stocks may
be bought showing yields of 4.3 aud 5
p.c. respectively.
Other stocks with a reassuring past
now giving a satisfactory yield are
Castlemaine-Perkins (brewery, Brisbane),
Broken Hill Prop., Henry Jones and
Millaquin Sugar.
With every threat of international
complications the industrial sharemarket
usually weakens. There is no really jus-
tifiable reason for this. One of the first
things to lose value during war-time in-
flation is paper money (and Consols).
Ordinary shares don’t represent money
so much as equities in working assets.
Ten months’ wool-selling (to April 30)
brought Australia in £46.3 millions
(Aust.). In the period 2,760,000 bales
were delivered to store for sale ; 94 p.c.
was sold. Clearing-up sales in Sydney
last week continued, with prices strong
and clearances good.
* 4c * *
Another indication of the recovery
in industrial activity—the C.S.R. reports
that consumption of sugar in Australia
is now greater than the 1928-29 peak
year. That, of course, means the great-
est consumption yet reached.
Overseas, sugar has been selling at a
better price, too. The Australian ex-
port surplus for last season fetched about
Bs. 9d. a ton more. Milling cos. and
growers have benefited.
* H= * 4c
Australian gold production for the
quarter ended March was 244,9660 z., as
against 153,5800 z. in the same period of
“ 'E's no good, Joe. Sort o' bloke wot gets this place a bad name!"
1935, which included the Westralian
miners’ strike. Output for 1936 should
be over 1,000,0000 z.
* * * *
The public debt, £174 a head in June,
1928, had risen to £lB2 in 1933, to £lB5
at September 30, 1935, and to £lB6 at
December 31. The interest bill is £7 a
head. Australian Governments are not
paying their way in spite of the enor-
mous taxation exacted, and the cost of
“works” —what are they anyway?—is
fast outstripping sinking-fund provisions
and the growth in population.
He * * 4=
The outlay of £40,000 on new ’planes
during the past two months by Guinea
Airways, Ltd., which is meeting with com-
petition in its goldfields service, was men-
tioned by the co.’s chairman (C. V. T.
Wells) in Sydney. He also referred to
the Commonwealth proposals for merg-
ing the N.G. aerial services under one
control, to be supervised by the Govern-
ment. Guinea Airways pioneered aerial
transport in the Mandated Territory and
Papua, and certainly did its job efficiently.
It is the largest air-freight transport co.
in the world, and was of great service to
the Bulolo Co. when that concern was
in the baby stage.
$ $ $ $
Mt. Lyell declared a sixpenny div. last
week, thus getting back on to a half-
yearly basis. The two previous distri-
butions were also of sixpence, in Dec.,
1935, and Dec., 1933. On a 5 p.c. basis
the yield at last week’s price (245. 9d.)
would be 4 p.c. A better div. should
be possible later on.
% Jfc ❖
Australian Knitting Mills 7s. 6d.
shares (they are being reduced to that
figure following the distribution of 57
Yarra Falls shares per 100 A.K.M., to-
gether with an interest in Austral Silk
and Cotton and a small amount of cash)
sold at Bs. 9d. last week in Melbourne.
It has been a profitable purchase for
those who bought at 28s. 9d. (B.
11/3/’36). At 40s. a share for the Yarra
Falls scrip the holding is now worth
over 325.
Dr. Earle Page told London Chamber
of Commerce last week that Australia’s
purchases from Britain had increased 47
p.c. since Ottawa, while Britain’s pur-
chases from us had gone up 14.1 p.c.
It is somewhat difficult to define what
constitutes a fair pre-Ottawa basis for
comparison; but the general trend in-
dicated by Dr. Page has been pointed out
here from time to time.
* * * *
A. R. Penfold, addressing the annual
meeting of the Royal Society in Sydney,
mentioned, as “the most important tech-
nical development last year from a
national standpoint,” the installation of
a new benzol distillery at B. H. Prop.’s
Newcastle works, and now producing
about 40,000 gallons a week. Penfold
is in agreement with the Commonwealth’s
attitude toward hydrogenation of coal —
that of waiting until a process has been
proved practical and economic overseas.
Governments, however, have had to be
persuaded on this point. There was talk
of sinking £8,000,000 in a plant at New-
castle.
* * * *
David Jones’ (Sydney) ord. shares have
kept very firm lately despite a somewhat
wishy-washy sharemarket. They sold
at 455. 6d. last week, yielding around
4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
market was disappointed with Burns,
Philp’s figures—the increase in admitted
earnings was small, the div. wasn’t in-
creased, nor were any probable bonuses
mentioned. The shares were up to 70s.
6d. a short time ago ; last week they sold
at 685., still yielding less than 3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch ord. shares changed
hands at 465. in Sydney and 465. 6d.
in Melbourne last Wednesday. This
stock pays 10 p.c. (it didn’t distribute
less than 8 p.c. throughout the slump),,
and the yield at 465. is 4.3 p.c.
* * * *
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd., has re-
turned to the ord. div. list with a declara-
tion of li p.c.—the first distribution on
this class of scrip since 1931, when 1£
p.c, was handed out for the full year.
At the end of the last term the co. funded
£12,000 of its pref. div, arrears by issu-
ing that much pref. scrip, was relieved
of the rest, and reduced the div. on the
8 p.c. prefs. to 6 p.c.,
with the right to
participate with the
ords. up to the old
rate.
Mark Toy’s, the
Sydney drapers, have
declared the first
ord. div. since 1930
—the 5 p.c. (prefs.,
allowing for the
statutory cut, get a
similar rate) was well
covered by net pro-
fits (equal to 6.7 p.c.
on capital). Pref.
arrears were dis-
charged in 1935 by
the issue of 40,367
ord. shares.
* *
Associated Pulp
and Paper rights sold
at par or little over last week. They
opened at a premium of about 9d,
* * -1= *
Excepting those who have recently
toured the Continent, there is still mis-
understanding in some Australian minds
as to the value of our money in gold
currencies. The Commonwealth pound
note is said to be worth 9s, 7d. in France.
The French franc at present has a fixed
value in gold. Tied as our currency is
to sterling (it is worth 20 p.c. less than
the £ English) it fluctuates in gold-
standard currencies as English money
fluctuates.
* « * *
In Melbourne last week:
Yarra Falls shares changed hands at 40s.
Paying 10 p.c. and yielding 5 p.c. at the
present price, this is an industrial stock with
a future. It has not only had a growing
market for its products (woollen yarns, wor-
steds, dress materials, etc.), but it is very
strongly financed, and has an influential
control.
Mr. Lyell was a trifle weaker at 245. 9d.
Zinc Investments, Ltd., was registered by
Amalgamated Zinc to take up the 150,000 £1
shares in Associated Pulp and Paper, which
the De Bavay Co. is entitled to subscribe for
at par. The new co. has a nominal capital
of £250,000 in 1,250,000 shares of 4s. each.
Broken Hill Prop, shares were firm
above 61s.
Australasian Paper ords. changed hands at
365. on Friday, as against 375., buyers, in
Sydney.
Hercules (Bendigo) shares were strong at
12s. 6d., following an announcement that the
co. intended working upper reaches of the
reef from which good divs. were paid at
lower levels.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Thoroughbred”
Technically, this Australian film shows
a- vast improvement on previous efforts.
It opens with some magnificent outdoor
shots. The lighting effects throughout are
splendid, and the sound technician has
done his job well. The picture, in so far
as these branches of technique are con-
cerned, shows little, if any, inferiority to
the products of Hollywood and Elstree.
But that’s as far as it goes.
Seemingly there are only two themes
which Australian producers will dare to
even think about hanging a film on —
the alleged mental disparity between
country folk and townspeople and the
Anna Neagle in “Peg of Old Drury,” at
Sydney Embassy.
Turf, as imagined by Nat Gould. Appar-
ently on this occasion tails won and the
Turf had it. That mightn’t have been so
bad, but the hackneyed plot is muddled
and blurred. One gathers that when the
Melbourne Cup is run residents of Pink-
ville (la.) and Krasnovarsk (U.S.S.R.)
listen-in goggle-eyed. In fact, so great
is the world’s interest in the race that
an international organisation of crooks is
formed to nobble the favorite. The gang
leader, who comes to superintend matters,
is refused permission to land, but that
doesn’t stop him from using his state-
room as a rendezvous for desperate crimi-
nals, or from telephoning instructions to
a horde of myrmidons ashore. He tells
them to shoot the favorite from the top
of the grandstand, a trifling occurrence
which only one of the 110,000 people
present (the hero) seems to notice. This
shocking deed is performed when the nag
is only a few yards from the winning-
post, and the noble animal is able to
stagger on to victory and death.
All arguments as to the Australian
accent are settled simply in this effort.
Wearers of smart clobber bleat d la
Oxford ; less exalted coves out-Cockney
’Oundsditch.
Acting honors go to the horse. This
sagacious beast, when its stable is ablaze
from end to end, walks with admirable
calmness to safety, a remarkable example
of equine self-control. Most neddies go
frantic at the first smell of smoke. Helen
Twelvetrees is quite at home in the Aussie
settings, and looks charming. Frank
Leighton and John Longden do the best
they can with unintelligible material.
Ronald Whelan looks suitably sinister as
a gang leader.
Direction sometimes clever, at other
times crude. At Sydney Mayfair.
“The Music Goes Round”
Audiences need entertain no qualms re-
garding this film’s title. True, the theme-
song is played, crooned and howled a
few times, but it is not germane to the
story, which is an occasion for devout
thanks.
Harry Wallace (Harry Richman), a
musicomedy star in rehearsal for a new
show, quarrels with entrepreneur Bishop
(Douglas Dumbrille). A Mississippi
showboat arrives; wandering aboard
during a try-out for talent, he
gets one-line parts in the lurid
bellowdramas with which the Courtney
Players wring sobs from bucolic audi-
ences. But Pat Courtney (Walter Con-
nolly) and daughter Susannah (Rochelle
Hudson) are up against it, and Harry
(now yclept Linden) peels a few off the
roll and appeases the bailiff.
Then he gets the Big Idea. He wires the
frantic Bishop to see the show. When
the great man stops laughing at the audi-
ence’s hissing of the moustachioed villain
in the satin-flowered waistcoat he agrees
that a touch of the old “unhand-me” stuff
inserted in his new show will send
N’Yark’s hard-boiled theatregoers into
shrieks. The players are duly incor-
porated, but they innocently fail to under-
stand the laughter commingled with the
claps. When it dawns on Susannah she
is furious, tells the boiled-shirted patrons
off good and plain, and bolts back to the
boat. Follow Harry’s contrition and
reconciliation.
Harry Richman puts pep into his role,
but as a crooner he glurbs between the
cracks in the piano keyboard. Rochelle
Hudson is hard to fault, save for her
irrational admiration of Mr. Richman’s
voice. Walter Connolly as the dignified
but bibulous showman gives a superb
piece of character-acting, and Douglas
Dumbrille forsakes his usual path of vil-
lainy for the part of a harassed entre-
preneur.
The glimpses of the purple “dram-
mers” that caused grandfather furtive
sniffs in the ’eighties are delightful, and
altogether, despite the music, the film is
good entertainment. At Sydney Plaza.
“If You Could Only Cook”
There are plenty of laughs in this farce,
which is wafted along on the breezes of
sheer asininity. James Buchanan (Her-
bert Marshall), president of a motor
corporation bearing his name, is about
Reginald Owen in “The Bishop Mis-
behaves,” at Sydney Civic.
to marry, having got as far as wedding
rehearsals. Wandering, disconsolate, in
the park to chew over his failure to
impress his fellow-directors with a new
car he has planned, he sits upon the
same seat as Joan (Jean Arthur), who,
after unsuccessfully scanning her paper
for a job, passes it across to him. Enter-
ing into the spirit of the diversion, he
lights upon a cook-butler job for man
and wife. As Mr. and Mrs. James Burns
they land the job at the mansion of a
boiled-shirt gangster. The inevitable
complications ensue, and when James is
seen by Mike’s offsider to enter the motor
corporation’s office at night, open the
safe and extract plans, they take him for
a member of their fraternity. Joan, in
a helping spirit, tries to sell the plans to
another co., which recognises them, and
Joan is arrested. James’s nuptials are
next on the agenda paper. During the
ceremony the gang arrives and kidnaps
the bridegroom to put him on the spot.
Joan, who has been released, implores
Mike to spare him, but she refuses to
marry him until a mock bump-off
staged by the gangsters throws her into
Edmund Gwenn in “The Bishop
Misbehaves.”
his arms. The fine comedy sense of
Herbert Marshall and Jean Arthur gives
feasibility to the most ridiculous situ-
ations. Leo Carrillo is a likeable and
benevolent gangster. At Sydney Plaza.
“Peg of Old Drury”
A piece of historical reconstruction
which owes little to history save atmo-
sphere and personalities. Peg Woffington
(Anna Neagle) is represented as playing
at Drury Lane Theatre in Garrick’s com-
pany in 1743, with Rich as manager.
Rich was at Covent Garden, and his
association with Garrick did not com-
mence till 1746. Peg in real life refused
David Garrick’s offer of heart and hand ;
in the film she adores him. But the film
story serves as a good enough string on
which to display Garrick (Sir Cedric
Hardwicke), Dr. Johnson, the cat-loving
Rich, the pretty Mistress Woffington,
the Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding Club
and the costumes and manners of a pic-
turesque period.
Hardwicke makes an impressive and
witty Garrick. He is shown in snatches
of Shakspearean plays, and brief glimpses
of him as Shylock and Richard 111. are
memorable. Miss Neagle in the opening
sequences is too perseveringly eager and
vivacious, her Irish brogue, like that of
other allegedly Hibernian characters, is
unconvincing, and her attachment to a
dog (apparently paralysed, since she
carries it everywhere) is an irrelevant dis-
traction, Later, as a firmly-established
public favorite, she fills the bill ade-
quately, dying of heart failure after a per-
formance as Rosalind in “As You Like
It” very prettily. Old Drury, Vauxhall
Gardens (with fireworks) and street
scenes in the London of George ll.’s reign
are well represented, and the various
members of a large cast wear perukes
and full-bottomed wigs as to the manner
born. At Sydney Embassy.
“While Parents Sleep”
In this English film the author of the
play has had a hand in arranging the
screen version, which, in consequence,
retains the merits of the original to a
far greater degree than is usual in such
reconstructions. Acting is first-class.
Mackenzie Ward is exactly the type for
the irresponsible and irrepressible
youngest son; Jean Gillie presents a
working-class girl who, while she doesn’t
transcend her type, has intelligence and
spirit. Athole Stewart as the amiable
Colonel Hammond, David Burnaby as
Lord Cattrington and Rebla (he made
his fame as a juggler) as a resourceful
butler give admirable studies of types,
and other parts are equally well cast.
The division between farce and comedy
is never overstepped, and the tempo is
brisk enough to keep any audience inter-
ested. Second string at Sydney Embassy.
“The Bishop Misbehaves”
Another of those films produced in
England under American direction. An
Anglican bishop, addicted to reading
thrillers, stumbles on a crime mystery*
and, interfering, nearly gets his fingers
burnt. Edmund Gwenn makes the part
credible through sheer good acting.
Norman Foster as the inevitable Ameri-
can (with his accent he couldn’t be any-
thing else) and Maureen O’Sullivan
supply the tincture of romance. A round
half-dozen of Cockney characters, all
different and all excellent, keep the atmo-
sphere predominantly English. Scenes
in Limehouse (London’s equivalent of
Sydney’s Campbell-street) are graphically
done, action is snappy and the frailties
of a machine-made plot reeking with
improbabilities are cleverly glossed over.
At Sydney Civic.
“Tough Guy”
Jackie Cooper, now old enough to
know better, runs away from home be-
cause his multi-millionaire papa doesn’t
appear to love him. Companion in his
flight is an Alsatian hound billed as “Rin-
lin-tin, Jnr.” The pair fall into the
hands of desperate gangsters headed by
Joseph Calleia, but, of course, no gang-
ster, however tough, could withstand the
united appeal of Master Cooper and a
dog, and by these agencies a hard heart
is softened and a wicked soul is brought
to see the light. The process is long
and not particularly entertaining, but
there is one beautiful moment when Mr.
Calleia lands Master Cooper a smack
which atones in some degree for the tons
of guffy sentiment unleashed in connec-
tion with Master Cooper in this and
hordes of other films. At Sydney Civic.
“Gentle Julia’'
An attempt to utilise as screen material
incidents from one of Booth Tarkington’s
stories about children and adolescents.
Jane Withers, whose metier it is to be
quaintly solemn, is given a Shirley Temple
role which requires her to bubble over
with merriment. She bubbles most deter-
minedly, but is never effective until she
is allowed to get on her dignity. Tom
Brown, capable of excellent acting if
cast as having the intelligence of his age,
is a painful spectacle as a young man so
divorced from reason that he goes to a
party without his trousers. Best-placed
people in the extensive cast are ten-year-
old Jackie Searle and a mate of about
the same age. Marsha Hunt as a
Sir Cedric Hardwicke in “Peg of Old
Drury.”
romantic young miss and George Meeker
as a dashing stranger from New York
(1900 vintage—he sings “Love Me and
the World is Mine”) are satisfactory. Ar
Sydney Capitol.
“Yellow Dust”
When Bob Culpepper (Richard Dix),
a prospector, is helping Solitaire (Andy
Clyde), an old fossicker, to plant the


n
that
with
gunni
Get down
burrow
Bunni-Di is a practical improvement
on all other Rabbit Killers —you can
carry the Brickettes on the saddle —
you need no expensive machinery—
you cut labour costs and you get bet-
ter results. Just light the Brickette
wick, and place in burrow mouth.
Write for our testimonials which are
increasing every day.
Chief Distributors for Australia:
D. G. OFFICER PTY. LTD.
90 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
INTERSTATE.
N.S.W.: CHARLES CLARKE & SON,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
W.A.: LEWIS BATEMAN, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.G.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tne
world.
hafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All visual
banking business transacted.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
/■
A
Flawless materials, delicately
wrought by master craftsmen, give
Stuart Crystal the peculiar depth and
brilliance found in no other glass.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold
Sole Representatives (whole sale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street Sydney.
Stuart
drgstal
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE MODERN EXILITY
m
%
m
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
THE 1936
good-looking • •
hard-working
JpORD V-8 the modern
Utility gives you smart
style with efficient, dependable
performance. Many features
and special equipment (usually
supplied only at additional cost)
add many pounds to V-8 Utility
value. Make your own com-
parison of equipment and
dimensions as well as prices.
Your local Ford dealer will
gladly arrange an “on-the-job”
test. A special Finance Plan
provides easy purchase terms.
FORD V-8 UTILITIES
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer.
F 74 .1 0 C
k
ķ
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
May Issue Now on Sale.
MAORILAND’S FINANCIAL EXPERIMENTS
PROBLEM OF IMPORTS
INTEREST RATES
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 262 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
latter’s would-be assassin, who paid the
penalty for indifferent marksmanship,
they make a rich strike. While in part-
nership they rescue Nellie (Leila Hyams),
a cabaret singer, and her mother (Jessie
Ralph) from bandits. But when they hit
Goldtown a wicked, marcel-waved cabaret
proprietor develops dual designs on the
fair Nellie and the gold in them lhar
hills, frames Mr. Culpepper for banditry,
and sends myrmidons to jump the claim.
His base designs are overheard by Nellie,
who beats the usurpers to the warden’s
office, and spars for time by agreeing to
marry the double-dyed villain so that
Bahb may spike the scheme. The stern
hero escapes gaol, a yo-yo imitation over
a tree branch and other awful fates, and
arrives back in time to hear the parson
saying “Wilt thou take?” to the smirking
bad man. Only one thing could possibly
wipe that out in the wild and woolly
West, and in the gunplay Marcel, as
full of holes as a sanctionist’s argument,
writhes in the goldless dust, while Stern-
Jaw, scatheless as all good Western
heroes should be, clasps Nellie to his
breast.
Richard Dix, though his increasing
avoirdupois is slowing him down a mite,
clamps his prognathous jaw as trucu-
lently as ever and gives the villain some
hurry-up. Leila Hyams is a delectable
goii, and Onslow Stevens laughs like
Mephistopheles as he plots. Andy Clyde
and Moroni Olsen help the Western
atmosphere, and Jessie Ralph capably
handles a boneheaded-mother part.
Action is brisk. At Sydney Capitol,
Some First Nights
N. S. Wales Con. celebrated its coming-
of-age with a concert at which not only
the present director. Dr. Edgar Bainton,
but his predecessor. Dr. Arundel Orchard,
and a former and distinguished member
of the staff, Alfred Hill, took turns in
waving the baton. If the shade of Henri
Verbrugghen had an eye and an ear on
the proceedings he must have been grati-
fied to note that the State Orchestra has
been resurrected and that it is becoming
a remarkably efficient instrument. Mr.
Hill conducted his own orchestral suite,
“The Voice of Nature,” charmingly
melodic ; Dr. Bainton skilfully steered
the band through De Falla’s “Night in
the Gardens of Spain,” with Marjorie
Hesse as solo pianist, and showed its
paces also in Beethoven and Wagner.
Dr. Orchard exercised the orchestra in
the vivid contrasts of Elgar’s “Enigma”
variations. Mozart’s symphonic concerto,
with George White (violin) and Rosalind
Gumpertz (viola) as principals, rounded
off a well-conceived musical festival. The
Con. building, originally designed as a
stable, now houses a strong-winged
Pegasus.
Current Artbursts
Of all the Australian rebels against the
conventions and formulas of last century's
art, Helen Stewart, 22 of whose designs
“Carting Hay,” etching by E. Warner in the
Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
are on view at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, is the most individual and the
most courageous. She has invented a
code of her own, using as a nucleus just
a few of the mannerisms of French post-
impressionists, and she sticks to the code
with dogged fidelity. But she is no
creator of phantasmagoria. The smallest
child could unerringly diagnose the sub-
ject of any of her paintings and make
a recognisable copy of it, though the
infant might be puzzled as to why Miss
Stewart should paint a lady with no eyes
and only one eyebrow. This commen-
tator prefers to regard Miss Stewart’s pic-
tures as essays in decorative design, in
which light some of them are very pretty.
There is little mark of the professional
in Joan Henry’s first exhibition being
held at Margaret Mac Lean’s Galleries,
Melbourne. But Miss Henry obviously
takes a delight in her work. She has
and there is a fluid feeling
about her drawings as if she is trying to
catch a picture of the theory of move-
ment. Some pen-and-inks, the profile
of a woman wearing a stiff turban, a
sketch entitled “Lace” and a cunning
half-face, “Regency Rake,” are interest-
ing in detail. Gold and silver paints
provide decorative
effects in some of the
colored sketches,
many of which are
designs for costume.
“Horses” is an ex-
ample of imagina-
tion expressed in
color and sweeping
curves. In some of
the pictures the
foundations are in-
secure, but Miss
Henry has talent
and should make
progress,
4* 4 1
For the first time
oils only cover the
walls of the Vic-
torian Artists’ Gal-
leries for the autumn
exhibition. Of the
few portraits Charles
Wheeler’s “George
King, Esq.,” is one
of the most success-
ful. John Rowell shows two or three of
his landscapes, and Violet Mclnnes (Mrs.
W. B. Mclnnes) three of her flower
pieces. A. E. Newberry, who also favors
floral subjects, depicts pleasing effects of
light in a shower bouquet. Edward Hef-
fernan can do better than the nude
“Calypso,” an uninteresting study with
grubby flesh-tints. Alfred Coleman is
happy among outdoor subjects, his
“Morning Haze” being particularly satis-
fying. A. Colquhoun’s work is varied
and shows traces of his passage through
various schools. Dora Wilson tackles
diverse subjects. Her “Selborne Cham-
bers” is a nice piece of architectural
drawing, and her “Muriel of Australia,”
a study of an abo. girl, is effective.
Among the well-known exhibitors are
Hans Heysen, who paints fruit more
happily than masses of golden daffodils,
and E. Buckmaster, who shows a por-
trait' of General Chauvel. Of the younger
generation Murray Griffin is among the
hopefuls. He isn’t afraid of discarding
conventionalism, though he hardly makes
a success with his large Biblical-looking
canvas entitled “Garry and His Hundred
Hills.”
•b *l* *£•
The current black-and-white show of
Mrs. Heather Hamer at the Society of
Arts gallery in Adelaide is something
quite unusual. Wife of a planter in
Ceylon, Mrs. Hamer has let the odd run
away with her fancy. Her single figures,
or illustrations to legends of Asia, are in
the school of Beardsley, with glimpses
of S. H. Sirae; the crowded composi-
tions, with dwarfs and fays among the
revellers, suggest a more decorous Nor-
man Lindsay. The show challenges the
onlooker’s attention at every point. The
Art Gallery of Adelaide has bought one
of the crowded sort, but, having London
Bridge as its basic idea, the fancy is more
restrained, the figures ranging from
Henry the much-married to Dick Whit-
tington.
•I- * * *
A memorial exhibition of the paint-
ings of the late Clarice Beckett is being
held at the Athenaeum. Miss Beckett had
both talent and color sense; she was a
serious-minded thinker with a taste for
the ethereal, never the practical; for
the “soul” rather than the actual form
of painting. She liked to work in mist
and rain, and catch with her brush wet
roads, hazy lights and pinky-grey dusks.
A close disciple of the Meldrum school,
she showed signs of breaking away from
its theories during the last few years of
her life. “Striped Roofs,” “Tea Gar-
dens” and “The Awning” are examples
of experiments with gayer paints which
might have amounted to something really
good had the artist lived longer.


Richardson Chain Hotel
'OM
t id
m
S 3
mU*
is*?
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone; F 4 14 1 (10 lines).
iiSiiilil
* &jg3ssasaa
PETTY’S at SYDHEY
People stay at Petty's when they visit Sydney.
You. too. would like Petty's for its quiet com-
fort, the perfect service, excellent cuisine and
moderate tariff. Room and Breakfast from 11/6.
Inclusive, 18/Wire or write for reservations.
PETTYS
HOTEL York St. Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
k
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The dictum of Mrs. Adam Black,
pioneer member from Charters Towers,
spoken at the C.W.A. conference, that
“the city provides the brains of the
nation, but the country provides its
character,” and the C.W.A. record of ser-
vice to the community as shown in the
financial report are things to be remem-
bered. Acting-Premier Bruxner’s voice
was almost tinged with envy at the open-
ing of the conference (done very ably by
the Lieutenant-Governor’s lady), when
the comfortable figures rolled off his
tongue. Cash in hand £21,000, assets
£84,000. In addition the association has
given away £BB,OOO. The C.W.A. has
opened 114 rest-rooms in country centres.
It runs seven holiday homes at the sea-
side and on the mountains, and 13 emer-
gency and maternal hospitals. Once
again Mrs. Matt Sawyer is president.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax is now State secre-
tary, Mrs. Rupert Tucker, of Camden,
State treasurer. Miss S. F. Warby, who
was last year elected acting State secre-
tary, had been State treasurer for nine
years.
It looked as though David Jones’s had
bought out the entire stock of prickly-
pear spared by the cochineal bug. How-
ever, after a second glance at the pillars,
visitors at the C.W.A. reception dis-
covered the pear was part of a decora-
tive scheme, and settled more or less
contentedly about tables adorned with
pots of cacti in the bud. The reception
was on the night preceding the opening
of conference, and may have had some-
thing to do with the enthusiasm with
which the proposal to hold next year’s
council of war in the country was re-
ceived—a sort of nostalgia to regard the
dear old pest against nature’s back-
ground. Over five hundred delegates and
their friends came to the party, and after
listening to a • musical programme they
talked and drank coffee, and then went
home to bed for an early start in the
battle of proposing and seconding.
Mayoress Parkes and former Mayoress
Parker were there ; so were Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, now State secretary, and Miss
S. F. Warby, with pastel-toned roses in
her black chiffon frock, doing a last-
minute job—she has been State trea-
surer for nine years. Mrs. Rupert
Tucker, of Camden, takes up the work.
Mrs. Val Osborne, very handsome in
flowing black chiffons and pearls, Mrs.
Darcy, of Eastwood, smiling above rose-
du-Barry frocking, and Mrs. Arthur
James, who mingled gold lace and black
satin, were others noted in a crowded
night.
May, and a warm, still day brought
out lightweight woollen dresses, the fur
stole rather than the fur coat, and the
brimmed felt hat to Randwick on Satur-
day. Tattersall’s must have nailed up
a horseshoe on the club door, for they
had all the luck of the weather. Women
punters went out by the score, an amaz-
ing number of young marrieds among
them. Mrs. Sam Hordern was one in
burgundy angora ; Mrs. Lennox Bode’s
beige-grey was topped by a tasselled hat;
Mrs. Graham Body had soaring quills
on her small green hat; Mrs. Douglas
Levy mixed navy and grey ; Mrs. Gordon
Snow was caped in furs ; cornelian were
Marie Coen’s velour hat and braided
frock. One lady of Japan, just arrived
in Sydney, wore her national dress in
gold and deep-blue tones ; Midge Nelson,
up from Austinmer, sported a blue suit
smartly frogged in white.
Suzanne White’s coming-of-age was the
diamond-frosted party of the week. This
was at the Royal Sydney Golf Club, and
the spaces that weren’t taken up by the
170 guests were completely occupied by
flowers and foliage. It seemed as though
half of the family’s garden at Mount
Wilson had been brought to town. All
the red-browns and reds of autumn were
massed and twined about the rooms.
Suzanne’s frock, a heavy white crepe
run with silver, had a dash of fuchsia in
the shoulder drape that crossed at the
back. Mrs. White’s frock was flower-
patterned on black and gold. There were
horseshoe tables and champagne, so it
seems like a lucky year for Miss White.
Blue was repeated over and over again.
It was worn by the young and the not-
so-young with equal effect. Pamela Laid-
ley Dowling and Jennifer Maughan were
two girls who wore it with success. A
flared and pleated basque was the fea-
ture of Pamela’s frock ; buttons down
the back and a very full skirt were
noticed in Jennifer’s blue moire. Anne
Gordon was prunes as to the color of
her rustling silks, and prisms in the bril-
liant buckle at her waist and in the little
ornament that clipped the bow in her
hair. Sheila Elliott’s feather cape was
afternoon-sky blue. Mrs. Alan Potter,
Mrs. C. L. Jones and Mrs. Bertie Kelly
were wearers of blue, and Mrs. Sam
Hordern’s white crepes had silver bows
in a row.
The ambition of Mrs. Toby Browne
is to extend the market for Australian
wool. A little while ago she went to
Tasmania and talked “wear more wool”
and the necessity of capturing the Pacific
market. Mrs. Browne is largely respon-
sible for the wool handicrafts exhibition
now being run by the C.W.A.; the suit
worn by her in the photo, is of hand-
woven tweed. A Raymond Sawyer
camera caught the glimpse.
In a storm of flash photography that
was like the play of summer lightning the
Glassy flung its frozen charms under the
feet of Sydney. Thousands, including
cohorts of school children, took to the
ice, or from the tiers of seats watched
their offspring and their friends skim like
birds or waddle like ducks in the wide
space below. Skating was of three classes,
the careful, the carefree and the Heaven-
help-me. The gardenia in the hair bobbed
up again on the skating rink. Again the
women who stuck to the black velvet
dress with fitting bodice and flared just-
below-the-knee skirt were the most
attractive figures, though one girl in a
white cloth outfit, white boots and stock-
ings caught the gaze; so did Beatrice
Fawsitt in her pleated plaid skirt and
white pullover. Eve Sheedy’s suit was
gentian blue. Mrs. Bertram Ford, one
of the city’s expert skaters, wore the
regulation skating frock in Parma violet.
The new fashion note for women skaters
is to have their boots, skirt and stockings
all in one tone, and thus avoid the nasty
break when the top of a dark boot sud-
denly jars against a lighter-toned stocking.
Mungo MacCallum’s lady bending in-
tently over a spinning-wheel was one of
the first sights that met the gaze at the
wool crafts exhibition the other morn-
ing. Spinning is one of her recreations,
and after she spins wool she often turns
it into tennis socks and jumpers. She
was wearing a hand-knitted costume she
had made herself, and said that she made
one every year for her trip to Tasmania.
The Lieutenant-Governor’s wife was
among the interested ; so were the Snow-
den lady, Mrs. Jimmy Ashton and Lady
Hosie from England. The Vice-Consul
for Japan arrived, and was taken to
every wheel and loom.
At these looms girls are busy on every-
thing from the making of gay little
scarves to slowly-evolving Persian rugs.
A beautiful example of this latter craft
is in full view. It is a design of a win-
dow from a great cathedral in Constan-
tinople. A girl with clever fingers does
felt inlay, making pictures of cottage
gardens, buccaneers or flower pieces. A
black velvet evening coat lined with wool
under its quilted satin was proudly dis-
played by Mrs. George Davies, of Scone.
This clever worker also shows padded
gowns, and quilts. There’s at least one
worker making Harris tweeds with wool
from the Orkneys, and there’s a woolly
jumper, soft as silk, that proves that even
the black sheep of the flock has his
good points. This is fashioned from
twisted strands of the soft raw wool--
the result is a look of brushed wool.
Travelling rugs, rugs for the floor, mat-
tresses filled with wool, a cobweb shawl
of Shetland wool (this is a heirloom, so
it’s in a case) are part of an exhibition
absorbing because it is not still life, but
an active demonstration of what the
sheep means to Australia.
Helen Stewart wore a burgundy cos-
tume and a green feather in her bur-
gundy hat for the opening of her show
by Ethel Ranken last week. This brought
a fluttering of the social as well as the
artistic to the Macquarie Galleries, and
by four o’clock, when all had departed
for tea, there were three or so red discs
adding reclame. Helen is a Maorilander
by birth, and she is a product of Thea
Proctor, the Grosvenor school of mod-
ern art, London, and the studios of
Andre Lhote and Yaclav Vytlacyl in
Paris. Artist Maude Sherwood, Mrs. A.
T. Anderson and Gwen Ramsay from
the North Shore line, Jocelyn and Violet
Robins, and “Tim” Bailey, daughter of
the stage Dad of “Our Selection,” were
among the picture-gazers.
Eunice Hurst, the violinist, who played
at the party for the Writers and Artists’
Ball, which is dated for the fifth of June,
is a product of the Conservatorium.
After her Sydney studies she went to
Minneapolis and worked under Miss
Jenny Cullen, the brilliant violinist of
the late Henri Verbrugghen’s orchestra,
Dayne photograph.
After Stormalong had won his Mel-
bourne Cup and love had found a way,
toasts were drunk on the stage of the
Mayfair to the success of “Thorough-
bred,” the Cinesound film which had
just had its premiere. This was a mid-
night rally, and to the great white arc
lights in the vestibule moths of the stage
and the screen fluttered with unerring
instinct. The Ken Halls were there, and
so was Frank Leighton. He’s the hero
of the picture, and he came in the bosom
of his family. The Cecil Kellaways, the
Leo Franklyns, her black frock of quilted
taffeta, and Marie La Varre, her blonde
good looks dressed in black satin, were
some celebrities. Gwen Munro, picked
for lead in Cinesound’s next production,
had been caught in a shower of butter-
flies. They glimmered in the fine mesh
of her grey laces.
The coffee-party at Mrs. Norman
Lowe’s last Thursday unfurled the banner
of publicity for the ball of the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers. Mrs. Norman,
who is president, hostessed in black velvet
and a small fitting toque whose whole
being seemed a jaunty black bow. Fellows
by the hundred journeyed to Bradley’s
Head-road, and the affair went off with
the bang of a successful and ornamental
cracker. Iris Burns, a pretty teen-old
niece of Mrs. Lowe, in a ground-length
white crepe frock, made her debut as a
singer. The voice is unusual with its
’cello-like notes and great range. Lute
Drummond was in charge of the music,
and had Ruth Pierce Jones and Eunice
Hurst among the artists. The star event
was a dance by Norda Mata. On the
lawn under the light of the moon, assisted
by the headlights of two cars, she danced
as some young priestess of the Nile
might have when Caesar Augustus was
Egypt’s lord. Her mask was gold, her
draperies gold and crimson.
Up at the Australian Hall rehearsals
for “The Holy Grail” are getting into
their stride. Sometimes an unrehearsed
scene creeps in. Last week when Sir
Percival’s sister was swooning to her
death, and Galahad on one knee was
waiting to receive the lifeless body, one
of the gentle knights looked down and
broke into a hoot of laughter. The stage
had been very dusty, and somebody had
carefully spread it with newspapers.
Galahad was kneeling on a sheet
blazoned with “Plan for Cheaper
Funerals.” It was 15 minutes before
King Arthur’s Court got its face straight.
Variations on the theme that art is
long, however fleeting life, were played
by Bertie Kelly and Joe Collins at the
opening of the private view of the
Women’s Industrial Arts exhibition. This
display lines the walls of the Education
Galleries with paintings, while down the
middle of the long room are tables dis-
playing examples of modelling, pottery
and beaten-silver ware. Lengths of hand-
woven and hand-blocked linens, two of
them designed with bars of music, form
the backcloth to the dais. At Friday's
opening president Mrs. Clinton, dressed
in terra-cotta angora, and Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, in a frock that was the mauve-
blue of asters, picked out with red, and
snugglesome with fur borders, added
color to the scheme. On the eighteenth
there will be another opening by the
Governor-General’s lady.
There was a demonstration of model-
ling, painting and glove-making in the
outer gallery. Miss McCredie’s modelling
and Miss ‘ Rodder’s glove-making were
attractions. John Lane Mullins, daughter
Barbara and Howard Hinton did the
show together, and Howard went straight
as a homing bird for one of Phyllis Shil-
lito’s pictures. Marie Monypenny’s
woven curtains of ivory cotton, knotted
in gold with the old Turkish pile knot,
repay inspection.
Over five hundred went to the Con-
servatorium’s coming-of-age party at
David Jones’s. On the invitations the
jubilation was called a conversazione, but
there were five speakers and a pro-
gramme of music. Among the speakers
was Capt. Campbell Carmichael, a
member of the Government which
founded the Con. He mentioned
with appreciation the work of the
school’s first director, Henri Verbrug-
ghen. Peter Board, another stalwart
of the cause of music culture in this
State, was one of the evening’s honored.
Another whom the Con. honors with a
spray of forget-me-not is William Hol-
man, whose own love of music and the
arts had much to do with its coming into
being. Acting-Premier Bruxner, Minister
for Education Drummond, Dr, Bainton
and Dr. Orchard were others who made
speeches.


AT MYER’S
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
An exhibition of nearly 300 original “Bulletin black-and-white
drawings is now open at the Myer Emporium, Melbourne.
Here is an exceptional opportunity to view a selection of the
splendid line and wash work of Norman Lindsay, Ted Scorfield,
Unk White, G. K. Townshend, Percy Lindsay, Syd Miller,
B. E. Minns, Oswald Pryor and other leading Australian artists.
All the drawings have been published in The Bulletin, and the
originals may be bought at Myer s.
When at MYER’S, don’t forget to see “THE BULLETIN”
black-and-white exhibition.
COME TD THE
LEIPZIG
"
mi
%
£4— J ~ .
Monument of the Battle of the Nations.
TBADE FAIR
The popularity of this buying centre
is amply proved year after year.
You cannot afford to overlook the
profit-making opportunities made
possible by the Leipzig Fair held
every March and August.
COMMENCES AUGUST 30
Comprising General Samples, Building,
Household and Industrial Equipment Fair.
All information, including Barter Arrangements, from:
LARS G. BRUNDAIIL. Commissioner in Australia for
the Leipzig Trade Fair. L. MESSEY, Technical
Adviser, Challis House, Martin Place; G.P.O.
Box No. 3127 P, Sydney. ’Phone: 84006.
C N KEPPEL. C/o Marcard & Co., 360 Post Office
place, G.P.O. Box 1658, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTBRSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Legacy Ball revolved at the Palais
as a solid mass of 1200 people. There
was some scrimmaging over tables, for
a few people forgot to book seats until
the last moment, and spent the early part
of the evening casting piratical eyes over
envy-provoking tables vacant thus far
and wondering how much trust they
could put in the old adage that posses-
sion is nine points of the law.
President of the ball committee Mrs.
E. Drake-Brockman wore black, and
Mrs. Frank Sampson and Mrs. H. R.
Hamer, who checked ledgers on the in-
coming tide, wore respectively grey-blue
chiffon finely pleated and floral pattern-
ings in black and white. Two distinc-
tive Tasmanian visitors were Mrs. Percy
Keach and Mrs. R. R. Field. The Moul-
den lady, wearing black (which suits her
much better than white) and orchids, and
accompanied by barrister Basil Murphy,
joined forces with the Louis Nelken
couple. Alan Mcßride, who worked
hard as the ball’s honorary publicity
agent, gazed at the decorations and won-
dered how his written descriptions really
sounded in print.
The dais, from which the band offici-
ated, crooners crooned and various en-
tertainers leapt to the floor for cabaret
turns, was transformed into a rose garden
against a drop curtain of pink lame.
Autumn leaves and tall bamboos shot
upwards out of huge bowls placed round
the room, and down at one end there
was a silver sheath of bunting which,
when the lights were dimmed, became
transparent so that the word “Legacy”
written in red flowers stood out in strong
relief. In the throng of dancers were
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Wales, Gordon Rice,
Ron Nettlefold, the Byram Gowans, she
in pink with twinkly earrings, and the
Lindsay Plants. Margaret Swinburne
wore emerald-green ninon with a sheen
of silver beneath. Betty Stewart’s airy
white gown had floating wings draped
from the shoulders. Lois Ridge chose a
floral garment and Nan Jacobs sheath-
like white chiffon and white camellias
pinned high on her head. Coral Spiers
was also in white, with a suggestion of
pastel-pink in the lining of her winged
draperies.
Produced in aid of the Union building
fund, “Bridal and Bits” was this year’s
theatrical effort by grads, and under-
grads. The show was a quasi-revue, with
satire upon a society wedding as the cen-
tral theme. Among the “Bits” a Russian
dance by Gerald McErlean and the
tumbling of Wilbur Curtis, Frank Hyett
and Alan May were of professional
standard, and Josephine Ambler kept the
flag of the Conservatorium flying. She
can do straight stuff and burlesque (as in
‘The Rowan Tree”) and can sing in tune
or off the note and get away with it,
which is a real test of musical in-
genuity. A bit of Shakspeare gone
modern was put over in a “Midsummer
Nightmare,” wherein Lady Macbeth
(Joan Burke) prowled about being
sepulchral in American vernacular.
“Community Singing in the Home”
showed a boarding-house proprietress
(Kath Hyland) and her peculiar variety
of guests singing for their breakfast
bacon, the guests being very personal
about the eggs. A “Weatherwise
Comedy, in two scenes, by Noel
Coward,” started by being a kind of skit
on psycho-analysis, but the treatment
couldn’t have been right. It finished with
the patient (Nan O’Connor) killing the
psycho-analyst in a bout of rabies.
In the “Bridal” interludes Joan Burke
did fine acting as mother. Maidie Flint
was daughter, George Lindon the
’groom. The ballet appeared as blithely
dancing attendants. Jim Buchanan was
a fiery follower of Marx (Karl, not one
of the Brothers), with Cynthia Sutton
doing a bit of character work as the un-
welcome poor relation from outer
Coburg, and Keith Macartney burbling
that he was the Empress of China. The
show had its good and bad spots; a
pruning-knife would have made it less of
an endurance test on the first night.
Here is a Broothorn camera’s impression
of Margaret Read, a cookery specialist
who is spending this year as an exchange
teacher at the Emily McPherson College.
The other unit in this particular ex-
change plan is Molly Jose, who is adding
to her experiences as a teacher in London
at Berridge House, a large institution of
domestic economy run by the National
Society. Miss Read says that English
people visiting Australia are not prepared
to find foodstuffs of such fine quality;
our goods are so little advertised abroad.
Teachers and students at Berridge House
work hard during school terms (nearly
all the students do full courses, not just
odd subjects), but they get, in all, 13
weeks of vacation during the year. Miss
Read has taken advantage of these holi-
days to travel extensively through the
British Isles, to the Continent and the
Mediterranean. For Easter, her first
holiday in Australia, she went riding with
some friends and a guide through the
Cumberland Valley. Sleeping in a ham-
mock under the stars, drinking billy tea,
the magnificent scenery and the sight of
her first kangaroo were some of the ex-
periences she enjoyed and will remember
in England when she returns at the end
of the year.
The Palais looked really lovely for
Xavier College Ball. Even the waitresses
wore red and black, and there were red
cloths and red candles on the tables.
Enormous dahlias, tawny chrysanthe-
mums, bright red autumn leaves and
tall, slim poplars, transported roots and
all, turned the dais into a botanical fairy-
land. Public-school banners hung from
the roof, to which later in the evening a
girl doing a cabaret turn climbed up on
a rope. When she reached the ceiling
she nonchalantly hung downwards, appa-
rently suspended from one toe. Among
other features were polo matches played
with croquet mallets and balls by public
schools’ representatives on tricycles which
had wheels but not pedals. Supper was
served with various courses handed round
to a timetable. There were oyster-bars
and bar-tickets and a bottle of beer as
a gift for every man. Leo Quin, with
the experience of hon. sec. for many
years, saw that all went smoothly. His
sisters Margot and Violet were among
the thousand-and-some dancers. Mrs.
T. M. Burke wore black and carried a
bouquet of cactus dahlias, Mrs. Ken
Lyall was swathed in oyster satin, and
Mary Allen was in black with hyacinths
in her hair. Lorna Moriarty’s choice fell
upon white chiffon and plaited shoulder-
straps, and Margaret Malone came forth
in fuchsia draped info a cowl neck.
Such a success was the Ivan Holymans’
dinner party at Menzies that no one
thought of making tracks for home until
after midnight. Cocktails appeared about
eight o’clock ; thenceforward things went
with a swing to the tune of a string band
playing in an arbor of autumn leaves.
Later in the evening there was a shuffle
up of seats so that guests who had been
placed at opposite ends of the oval table
could have heart-to-heart chats.
Thoughtful extras were flower gifts for
each feminine guets —not of fresh buds
which die so quickly and usually have
competition from another posy already on
the shoulder, but of artificial flowers of
all kinds and colors, to suit varied shades
of frocks. Mrs. Holyman wore a figured
dress of red poppies on an ivory ground,
and Mrs. Bertrandias was in black
attached to a glittering silver sequin yoke,
with her platinum hair adorned by pink
rosebuds.
Group-Captain and Mrs. Harrison ex-
tended cocktail hospitality to 150 people
one afternoon last week. An ingenious
device invented by Mrs. Harrison was to
insert into invitation envelopes a plan of
the party’s locality, so that there were no
difficulties over the crescents of Brighton
for guests who did not know the way.
The hostess wore a tailored frock of
shell-pink lace with violets clustered at
her waist and a plain saucer hat of
featherweight felt. Among the guests
were General and Mrs. Laverack and
the Herbert Bentons, Mrs. Benton in
black with gold buckles and a clever
little cape of caracul and kolinsky.
Douglas P. Douglas dropped in en route
from Tasmania back to Sydney with
portfolios of business papers plus golf
clubs as excess luggage. The Tim Jones
couple were there, Mrs. Jones in a ravish-
ing model of black crepe with silver
foxes inserted into the sleeves. Among
attractive young matrons were Mrs.
Freddie Thomas, with a black guardsman
hat topping her cocoa fox furs, Mrs. D.
Carroll in a green suit and a little gob
cap, and Mrs. Syd Dalrymple, who chose
a halo hat to accompany her diagonally-
striped tweed dress. Her husband, Capt.
Dalrymple, one of the State’s few
scratch golfers, received congratulations
on his scores of the day before in the
open foursomes at Kingston Heath. He
and his partner, Hugh Hamilton, pro-
duced a card marked 11 up.
Greta Harrison (her portrait is by
Dickinson-Monteath), who celebrated her
birthday last week, is the first “Air Force
baby” to reach the age of 21. Greta
was born in Melbourne at the time when
Point Cook consisted of a tin shed and
several canvas tents, and her father, now
Group-Captain Harrison, was founding
the Australian Air Force and training the
first pilots for the Defence Department.
Mrs. Harrison is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. G. M. Prendergast.
The motor show is drawing the inter-
ested, the envious and the merely curious
to the Exhibition Building. Speaking
generally, there seems to be a more
marked standardisation of design, and
English makers are gradually adopt-
ing American methods of structure.
Everything is streamlined, even the
door-handles of some models. Among
the mascots, also suggestive of pace
and minimum air resistance, are
torpedoes with wings, modern-arty sea-
gulls, impressionistic nymphs and de-
signs in thin pieces of metal moulded
to be smooth, simple and cornerless.
Every gadget is suggestive of speed, and
all unnecessary outside projections have
been cut out. Many cars no longer have
steps, and many more have an all-in-one-
piece look as if they had been made in
swooping lines out of single pieces of
metal. Iridescent paints are being used to
catch the eyes of people who like to lead
the way in road fashions. One car, for
exhibition purposes only, is gold on one
side and silver on the other, with a black
velvet curtain arranged down the middle
so that the full force of either effect can
be obtained. A few silver cars have been
seen on the road already, but the first
person to drive a golden model might be
taken for Cinderella’s prince up to date.
“That doesn’t mean much to you, but
it’s a poem to me,” say the husbands as
they desert their wives to gaze admiringly
at the shiny innards of new engines. On
the dais there is a fighting Hawker ’plane
complete with bombs and an explanatory
pilot-mechanic. A parachute is propped
open with bamboo stays —the largest
beach umbrella is but a fleabite in com-
parison. The dummy looks safe enough
in his complicated harness and leather-
lined flying suit.
For the first time in its rowing history
Geelong College has won the title of
Head of the River. The last year in
which the winning school got into the
final was 1927, when, with victory well
within its grasp, one of the crew caught
a crab. This year the Barwon was the
locale, so on Friday and Saturday
the Geelong-road was alive with cars
flying favorite school colors and wearing
all manner of mascots: dogs, cats, lions,
tigers and übiquitous kewpies. It rained
hard on the semi-finals day, and people
who had left Melbourne in bright sun-
shine were lucky if they were able to
find umbrellas, rugs or even newspapers
pushed in with picnic hampers. On Satur-
day the weather was perfect, and 15,000
cheered the college, which finished in fine
style, “rowing like veterans.” Wesley
and Geelong Grammar were the other
finalists.
The Moulden lady is to become Mrs.
Basil Buller Murphy. She has been twice
widowed, and both her husbands, lohn
Winthrop Hackett, of Perth, and Frank
Moulden, of Adelaide, received knight-
hoods. She was only 18 when she
became Mrs. Hackett. Basil Murphy,
who has lived all his life in Mel-
bourne, is a bachelor barrister, tall,
with prematurely-grey hair which suits
him well. He has a flair for repartee, a
good sense of humor, is fond of music
and paintings and is always seen at
concerts and private views. Pat Hackett,
who practises law and runs her own
Torch Theatre in Adelaide, is the only
one of the Moulden lady’s children who
has so far met her future stepfather.
The pair get on well.
The future Mrs. Buller Murphy is
well known for her good business head,
her enterprise and her bright outlook on
life generally. She likes flying, and has
travelled 6000 miles by air since last
October. She has chartered a ’plane for
April 24, when she will leave on a three
weeks’ flight in the interests of tantalite,
gold, cattle and sheep—up to Darwin,
down the Westralian coast to Perth and
back to Adelaide. She’s always a busy
woman. At one time she toyed with
the idea of standing for Parliament for
a Westralian country constituency.


Personal and Missing Friends.
MOLDEN.—WiII MR. SIDNEY C. MOLDEN,
late of Merewether, N.S.W., or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate with
undersigned to his advantage? Brother David
deceased—HAßßY R. ANDREWS & CO.,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, son of Allan
Campbell and Euphemia Macdonald, or any-
one knowing of his present whereabouts, is
requested to kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, in connection with the estate of tffe
late James Campbell.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
wm
Ssif
m
wm.
tm
&
iiiaai
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers^
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
Legal Notices.
TO GEORGE RUSSELL, Grandnephew of
ELIZABETH KNOX, deceased, who died
at Auckland in New Zealand on the 19th
October, 1908, to his children and to any
person claiming by, through or under him
or them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are here-
by called upon to send to the undersigned on
or before the Ist day of July, 1936, your
claims to certain moneys held by the Public
Trustee in the estate of the abovenamed de-
ceased, failing which the said moneys will be
distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1936.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN the matter of the Estate of WILLIAM
CHARLES JACKSON, late of Girvan,
near Stroud, in the State of New South
■ Wales, Independent Means, deceased, in-
testate.
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and
Administration Act 1898, and the Trustee Act
1925, NOTICE is hereby given that every
creditor or other person having any debt or
claim upon or affecting the Estate of the above-
named deceased, who died on or about the
Fifteenth day of March, 1935, and Administra-
tion of whose Estate was on the Twenty-seventh
day of June, 1935, granted by the Supreme
Court of New South Wales to the Public
Trustee, is hereby required to send particulars
in writing of such debt or claim to the said
Public Trustee on or before the Eighteenth day
of July, 1936, at the expiration of which time
the said Public Trustee will proceed to convey
and distribute the property and assets of the
said deceased to or among the persons entitled
thereto, having regard only to the debts or
claims of which he then has notice. AND
notice is hereby further given that the said
Public Trustee will not be liable for the pro-
perty or assets or any part thereof, so con-
veyed or distributed, to any person of whose
debt or claim he shall not have had notice at
the time of such conveyance or distribution.
W. B. GEDDES,
Public Trustee.
St. James Buildings,
107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, May 4, 1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 626 of 1936.
BETWEEN FLORENCE GERTRUDE
DUTTON Petitioner
And SIDNEY JOHN DUTTON Respon-
dent.
TO SIDNEY JOHN DUTTON late of Stepney
in the State of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
GERTRUDE DUTTON has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-fourth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
wilt proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of April,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
After the inter-State boatrace Kar-
rinyup Country Club put on a hop
which drew a horde of dancers. Mar-
garet Baton was there with a riot of
flowers on her beige chiffons, Mrs.
Stanley Craig effectively combined black
taffeta and lace, layers of soft frills
blew gently on Gladys Hadley’s apple-
green ninon, and Mrs. Stan Murphy
danced in severe black velvet. Misty
flowers shadowed Barbara Clarke’s
georgettes, and Grace Stapledon was
wound into a length of duck-egg blue
matt crepe.
The Billabalong Angus Campbells came
to Perth to give their eldest daughter into
the safe keeping of Tim Officer, of Wool-
gorong. Lots of neighbors arrived from
the Murchison and mingled with the city
guests at St. Mary’s, West Perth. The
train of Jean’s simply-cut ivory satin was
surcharged with filmy lace culled from
her mother’s wedding dress. Younger
sister Margaret undid the glove in sunset-
pink net over taffeta, frilled and puffed
and tied with a fetching sash which
matched the bow on her picture-hat.
Thousands lined the banks, of the Swan
for the head-of-the-river race. At night
Old Haleians gave a dance in the school
hall. Rita McGibbon was there with a
suggestion of violet and silver on her per-
venche-blue silks, Josephine Dobson tied
white lace with a lettuce-green sash,
Pauline Farrar swished old-world blue
taffeta, and Jean Fothergill’s striped blue
satin gleamed with silver. Joan Clime’s
taffeta shone sapphire and ruby in dif-
ferent lights, and Mrs. Tom Flintoff
danced in hyacinth pebble crepe.
Canon Henn, ex-headmaster of Guild-
ford Grammar School, officiated at the
wedding of Dr. lan Thorburn and Lillian
May, of Sandringham (Vic.), which took
place in the school chapel. The bride’s
apron-style navy sheer crepes were
decked at the neckline with red-and-
white suede leather, and she carried a
trail of roses and lilies-of-the-valley.
Angora fluffed on ’maid Mavis Mitchell’s
blue military suit, and her accessories
were all navy.
The Avalon Club, which was brought
into being by Public Service Commis-
sioner G. W. Simpson, started its social
activity with a dance at the Adelphi.
Standing next the president at the portals
was Mrs. Simpson, beset with jade-green
chiffon. The E. B. Sinclairs were there,
the Henry Greigs (she in diagonal-striped
sherry georgettes), the Bruce Galloways,
the Theo Taylors (her black georgette
was flecked with white), the W. H.
Taylors, Angus Rutters, J. L. Walkers
(gold roses were woven into her black
satins) and the C. F. McLarens.
Gay blooms were embroidered on Mrs.
Hubert Momber’s moon-blue silks when
she presided over the party commemo-
rating the Myola Club’s first anniversary
of the occupancy of its own clubrooms.
Mixed autumn flowers were arranged
around the main hall and looked well
against the blue curtains of the stage.
Mrs. T. O. Nicholls was responsible for
the first part of the programme, which
included musical items by Mrs. F. Cox,
Mrs. A. J. Baird, June Epstein, Evelyn
Shotter and Theo Meugens. Essex
Dane’s one-act play, “When the Whirl-
wind Blows,” was neatly portrayed by the
president, Mrs. C. Lamb and Mrs. R.
Long.
The Orford sailed away with a number
of Perth’s well-knowns aboard. Mr. and
Mrs. George Ridgeway left for an ex-
tensive trip overseas, taking with them
niece Marjorie Lukies, whose farewell
parties were legion. D. A. Gair, who
manages the Westralian affairs of the
Orient Co., set off for England with his
other half, whose valedictory hostesses
included Mrs. Hilton Wood, Mrs. T.
Ambrose and Mrs. B. Rosentamn. Dr.
T. Ambrose was booked to Colombo,
from whence he will escort daughter
Gwenyth back to W.A.
To farewell Gertrude Walton, Mrs.
Cecil Mason invited members of the
French Salon to tea at the Karrakatta
Club. The guest of honor, booked to
sail for England in the Comorin, was
girt with trim patterned georgette, and
the hostess’s blue-and-white check maro-
cain was trimmed with deep blue taffeta
and tulle.
Betty Sparke, of York, has announced
her engagement to Alistair de Courcy
Dick§pn, of Colombo.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
In aid of the Stirling Hospital a very
successful golf and bridge afternoon was
held at Mount Lofty Club. Mrs. E. W.
Hayward won the golf prize. Many
folk motored from Adelaide and made a
day of it.
At the Lyceum Club’s luncheon the
president, the Mawson lady, introduced
her husband, who gave a talk on
“Precious Stones,” a subject on which
his researches as a geologist enable him
to give many strange sidelights.
Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Marcus, of Heath-
pool, gave a cheery dance at the Went-
worth, at which daughter Patricia and
her friend Nina, daughter of the Rev. and
Mrs. R. V. S. Adams, made their debut.
Roses and dahlias in large bowls deco-
rated. Patricia’s white crepe frock was
cut on slim lines with diamente clasps
on either side of the draped bodice. Nina
also chose white crepe, flat, with wide
stitched revers and a flared skirt. Peggy
Fenner struck an original note with long
gloves of vivid green chiffon velvet worn
with a black taffeta frock.
Mr. and Mrs. Justin O’Dea gave a
large farewell party for their only
daughter Paddy, who left in the Comorin
for England, where she will be married
on arrival to Hugh le Messurier.
Autumn flowers and foliage made season-
able decoration.
The Bonython lady was the first to
give a debutante dance this season when,
in conjunction with Mrs. L. E. Clarke,
she entertained about 200 guests at St.
Corantyn, East-terrace. Arranged for
the debut of Mrs. Clarke’s niece, Patricia
Manton, of Sydney, the occasion served
also to launch Adelaide, daughter of the
R. M. Cudmores, of Mount Lofty, and
Mary, younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. M. Toll, of Glenelg. The hostess was
in black flat crepe moulded to the figure,
and trimmed upon the corsage with dead
gold and blue and red stones. Patricia
wore a charming frock of white pin-tucked
chiffon. Adelaide’s white matelasse was
cut on princess lines, and Mary chose
soft white satin, accordeon-pleated, the
bodice, high at the neck, finished with
three bands of turquoise beads and gold.
Adelaide Repertory has had to break
reluctantly its no-postponement motto
of close on 30 years’ standing. (It was
the first body of its kind to appear in
Australia, calling itself a Literary
Theatre till Sydney and Melbourne both
soon started as Repertory, when it
altered its name to fall in step with
them.) It had booked full houses for
“The Wind and the Rain” on May 2 and
9, when one of the principal players
went- down with illness, and the show
had to be called off for the moment.
TASMANIA.
The Aero Club garnished its ball with
appropriate decorations, and the commit-
tee members’ badge was a wee ’plane.
During the evening a flight of parachutes
came from the ceiling. Max Roche was
hon. sec. to a committee of 50. The
president (Chief Sec. T. D’Alton) and
Mrs. D’Alton were there, the latter in
bright red with short white fur coat. Mrs.
Ogilvie was in brocaded silver lame.
Supper-tables were decked with long trails
of Viriginia creeper and red vine and
vivid blooms.
The Grammar Ball at the Albert Hall,
Launceston, was up to expected stand-
ards. Decorations, chiefly in the school
colors, were very effective. Kiddies held
the floor in the earlier part of the even-
ing ; adults came on later. Frocking was
smart and good and extraordinarily
varied, some young things having their
frocks so full that they gave almost a
crinoline effect, while others were pro-
nouncedly “slinky.”
The Midland Hunt Club had a great
day out at Meadowbank. The meet
started from Meadowbank House, where
the Malcolm Gibsons dispensed coffee
and sandwiches, and after a long and
severe run finished up again at the start-
ing point, where a picnic lunch was en-
joyed. Weather was warm and pleasant.
Winifred, only daughter of the A, F.
Johnsons, Lonsdale, Kempton, and Hume
Sale were married at the Kempton kirk.
The bride’s simply-cut satin frock had
full cape-sleeves and a long train. The
tulle veil fell from a little cap, with sprigs
of orange-blossom holding it in shape.
Joan Gatehouse and little Elizabeth Swan
(bridegroom’s niece) followed, in pale
primrose yellow net with green sashes.
Nancy Burbury, Oatlands, and Ronald
Clemons, King Island, having decided to
take the matrimonial plunge, the bride-
elect’s friends ran a gift afternoon in her
honor at Oatlands Town Hall. Pro-
moters were Mrs. V. Page, Mrs. C. L.
Archer, P. C. Headlam and Miss J.
Watchorn. The associates of the Oat-
lands Golf Club, of which the chief
guest was a member, gave her a silver
cakedish.
Before leaving for England, the E. C.
Pratts were guests at many parties. Mrs.
Pratt gave a farewell afternoon jollo for
everyone at the last, choosing Hadley’s
as its setting. Competitive games filled
in the earlier hours, and after five o’clock
the affair became a cocktail party. The
hostess was in black, with a small smart
hat and stiffened eyeveil.
The Repertory Society put forward
some new blood in James Pratt’s produc-
tion of “London Wall” 'at the Royal.
Marie Johnston, in the part of Miss Janus,
was excellent, and Miss Pat Rex, Dorothy
Lloyd and Freda Elliott gave a good
account of themselves as the other
typists. Noel Richard, as the office boy,
was one of the highlights or the show.
Mrs. Arndel Lewis is home from her
short trip to Colombo. To welcome
her, the Francis Onslows gave a cocktail
party at Hadley’s, to which about 40
guests rolled up. The hostess was in a
smart black tailored turnout, and the
guest of honor wore soft woollen frock
with collar and cuffs in stripes of black,
green and white.
His Excellency and Lady Clark are
visiting Lord Gowrie at Canberra.
From “Edeline,” touring in Europe:
After ski-ing at St. Anton (Austria) we went
to Innsbruck and Salzburg, which are deadly
places. We were glad to leave for Vienna.
There Bruno Uher, who writes jazz music that
we heard frequently in the cafes, showed us
round. It wasn’t a bit like “Viennese blights"
(which had a long run at Sydney Prince
Edward), but it was a very charming place
just the same. At an opera we heard Richard
Tauber, and also a marvellous violinist called
Odnoposoff. Came back through Germany,
staying at Munich, Wiesbaden and Cologne (a
small bottle of “4711” for 9d.!); some of the
people in the streets were very rude to us,
yelling remarks which we couldn’t understand
—perhaps fortunately. It was just before
Hitler’s election, and there was a great
deal of tenseness. Back in London again now
[April]; spring is starting, and the countryside
looks lovely.


Smart... Rainproof...
Leather Lumber Jacket
ķ
made
from the
finest
Chrome
Leather
in sizes
36 to 44.
PRICE,
67/6
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET - - BRISBANE
It is the Purest of all Gin Spirits
3
C
WOLFES
iratt m
SCHIEDAM
...and the most health-
giving of all drinks
WOLFES
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
“For that tired feeling”
ĸ
Be a
MAN
Again
Are you letting the world slip by you?
Do you feel “out of things”? HOW-VEX
will bring back your natural pep and
sparkle.
HOW-VEX is a new, scientific treat-
ment for loss of energy. It is safe,
- sure, guaranteed efficient.
Revitalise your whole system, renew
your youth and confidence. Write
for free particulars.
HOW-VEX
will give you new life. Your money
refunded if dissatisfied.
Price, 10/6; extra quantity, 15/6.
At your chemist or storekeeper, or
direct from
THE HOWARD COMPANY,
BOX 4, 43 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: The “cruiser guarding raiding
luggers” off the Arnhem coast turns out to
be a supply ship which is mothering 21
Japanese luggers. They were discovered
in Apsley Strait, the narrow channel
which runs between Bathurst and Mel-
ville Islands. They were in Gordon Bay
for five days, according to the report of
an engineer who sheltered there. The
Administrator has reported them to
the Minister for the Interior. If history
follows its previous course in these mat-
ters, Mr, Paterson will now make a speech
saying that raiders will be dealt with
firmly. And Customs Minister White will
say the same thing in a slightly louder
voice. Then the 21 luggers will go away
loaded down with Australian shell and
42 luggers will come back in their places.
And another cry of anguish will go up
from the pearling industry, and some
more taxation money will be used to help
those who carry it on.
* % $ *
“Zedo”; Another block of the official
palaces which give Brisbane such an air
of civic opulence is to go up in Anzac-
square at a cost of £Bo,ooo—minimum.
Three similar units already have been
built; the Railway Department, follow-
ing the example of its brother in Sydney,
moved into the last of them completed.
Apart from a half-empty Parliament
House—the largest in Australia —the
huge insurance skyscraper, the Treasury
Building, which is about the size of the
Tuileries, the Executive Building, which
covers several acres of floor space, and
some minor hovels worth a few hundred
thousands, Queensland civil servants have
not a decent place to put a desk in, so
it is about time a few more palaces were
built. Though those who pay for the
building sometimes wonder what will
happen if the States disappear and ad-
ministration is decentralised, as it must
be when the North becomes strong
enough to demand separation.
* * * *
“Nothung”: News of the retirement of
England’s Biggest Policeman suggests a
comparison. He is 6ft. lOin. and weighs
25st. Sub-Inspector Howard, of Clon-
curry, is 6ft. 6in. and weighs 17st. Con-
stable Jentz, of Taringa, is 6ft.
and 19st. # Acting-Sergeant Clancy, of
Townsville, heads the list of Q. police
heavyweights with 22ySt. Sergeant Selby,
of Tully, runs him close with 20st. An-
other 20-stoner is Constable Weise, who
was anchor man of the one-ton team of
10 which won the N.Q. tug-o’-war.
¥
“Captain Pintle”: Australia’s furthest-
north cathedral at Thursday Island now
has in its walls a stone which once formed
part of Canterbury Cathedral. It occu-
pies the position which for many years
was used for a glass case containing the
house flag of the Quetta, wrecked off
Mount Adolphus Island in 1890 with
terrible loss of life. The flag was picked
up at Murray Island, over 100 miles
away, soon after the wreck, with some
signal flags and other wreckage. The
case has been re-erected above another
which contains a porthole crusted with
coral blasted from the ship’s hull by a
diver 16 years after the tragedy. Miss
Lacey, a Queensland girl, who was among
the few survivors, swam for many hours
in the shark-infested waters before she
was picked up. She afterwards married
a barrister, who later on became a lead-
ing law officer in the Mandated Territory.
“Marlinspike”: Apparent discrepan-
cies between successive surveys of the
ocean bottom north of Breaksea Spit on
Fraser Island (C.Q.) have led to the
view that a comparatively rapid deep-
ening has occurred over more than 100
square miles of sea-bed. One opinion
ascribes it to subsidence, quoting in sup-
port the earthshakes which have taken
place in the adjoining mainland. Others
believe it to be due to excavation by a
powerful current, setting northward and
carrying coral-smothering sand with it.
Replying to a question from the Great
Barrier Reef Committee, the Admiralty
Hydrographic Department expresses the
view that all surveys prior to that of the
Moresby in 1927 were inaccurate, and
that a resurvey of the same ground is the
only way of settling the matter.
“Dear me, that must he difficult!”
“No fear, missus! You take off boots and socks and have a go.”
“Fi. Fa.”: Contrary to popular ideas,
a sentence of imprisonment for life in
a Queensland court actually does, in
some cases, mean gaol for the remainder
of the prisoner’s days. Two real “lifers”
are now in Boggo-road, one on a second
sentence for a murder committed after
release from “life” for a former one,
the other for a particularly brutal crime,
cunningly designed and callously carried
out. In “life” instances, the visiting
magistrate may permit the prisoner to
petition for remission after a reasonable
period has been served. With a report
by the presiding Judge, such a petition
is considered by Cabinet. Only the
actual circumstances of the offence are
considered, although, if the Judge who
gave the sentence has died in the interim,
the governor of the gaol will report on
the prisoner’s conduct. Release has
occurred after six years, but the average
is from 12 to 15.
* ' * * *
“Notaden”: Darwin is no place nowa-
days for vegetarians of modest means.
To browse on cauliflowers at Is. 3d. per
pound or cabbages at lOd. per pound,
with all other greenstuffs and fruit at
proportionally high prices, would need
the income of one of the loftier civil
servants. Even with that, such fodder
is only available for a fortnight or so
after the arrival of the monthly steamer,
except for an occasional ’plane load at
even fancier prices. Yet, in the sleepy
old days before Andy Fisher and co.
decided to “civilise” it, Darwin had an
excellent and cheap supply of all kinds
of vegetables and fruit from a score of
Chinese gardens, not to speak of those
grown on the fertile river flats about
Stapleton on the Pine Creek railway.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Rockhampton certainly knows how to
give a helping hand to local talent. When
Jean Elwing came down from that city
to board the Sydney mail in Brisbane,
she carried with her a cheque for £5OO
contributed by her townspeople to help
pay for her elocutionary studies overseas.
Rosa Horwitz, of Townsville, was
Eileen Joyce’s first teacher, and Eileen
was her first pupil. The pianiste has
written long letters to her old friend, and
also delighted Moya Horwitz, a pupil at
All Hallows’, Brisbane, with an auto-
graphed photograph.
Puffing Billy, the oldest Queensland
railway engine extant, with a load clothed
in the modes of the 1860’s, squatted
alongside the 1936 streamlined model at
the railway pageant.
The Lighthouse Keepers’ Guild gave
a cheery little dance in the Commercial
Rowing Club’s boatshed in aid of the
Mission to Seamen. Over 100 dancers
attended, and Mrs. J. Eadie, v.-p., in
midnight-blue lace, welcomed them with
the aid of acting-president Doris Dal by
and hon. sec. Edith Fairbrother.
Mrs. Grant Thompson is publicity
officer and Mrs. F. R. Matyear will be
in charge of the decorations for the Lady
Mayoress’s ball, to take place in the City
Hall on June 19, in aid of several chari-
ties, including the Creche and Kinder-
garten and the Playgrounds Association.
Three young hopefuls up from Tas-
mania, Ray Robertson, Barclay Gray
and Stan Shay, gave a dinner-dance at
the Belle Vue, the guests including Patricia
Gardiner, daughter of the W. F. Gar-
diners, with her new diamond ring
sparkling on her finger and fiance Don
King Scott very attentive in the back-
ground. Don is a son of the late Dr.
King Scott and Mrs. J. D. King Scott,
of Malvern (Vic.).
Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Watt, who have
been in town for a week or so, have
gone on to Belle Vue. They gave a fare-
well dinner-dance at the Belle Vue Hotel
the night before they left.
Among the girls who are week-ending
at Beaudesert for the camp-drafting are
Mollie Brenan, Margaret Webster and
Shirley Lloyd, of Harrow. A.D.C. Reggie
de Leathes, Tony Shepherd and Ken
Lloyd are also in the party.
The numerous guests at the wedding
of Louise McColl and John McLelland
danced to the strains of the pipes after
the knot was tied. Dot McColl and
Flora McLelland ’maided, and George
Fraser came by ’plane from Townsville
to be best man. The groomsman was
Jack Phillips.
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Thwaites—she
was Janet Walsh—are back from their
honeymoon trip to New Zealand, and
have taken a flat at Craigston, on Wick-
ham-terrace.
The Uni. students had their usual Com-
mem. Day out. The procession would
have been side-splitting if the censor had
not intervened; even so, the lads got
away with a few things that the older
scholastic mind could not be expected to
grasp. Billy Hughes and our Lord
Mayor Jones featured largely in the tab-
leaux.
There wasn’t a vacant perch in the
Princess Theatre at night when the
burlesque was staged. The wit was a
leetle Rabelaisian, but it was a good show,
and Vic Hargreaves, who worked over-
time producing it, earned a cheer. The
final flutter was the dinner and dance at
the City Hall, attended by professors and
the senate.
Jessie Moffatt that was, well known in
Brisbane and Warwick, now is Mrs. Leon
Dexter, and she will live on Misima
Island, New Guinea. The couple were
married at the Mission House on the
island.
For the third time since her marriage,
Mrs. James Thorburn is over on a visit
to her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Peel,
but this is to be a long stay—until next
year. She has been living at Ed Darner,
250 miles from Khartoum, where there
are only four other bungalows occupied
by whites.
Ismay Joyce and her brother are home
again after footfree wanderings about the
globe. They did Ireland by car, and
were thrilled by the horsemanship dis-
played in the international military
jumping at Dublin Horse Show, in which
six teams competed. Scotland was aglow
with gorse and heather for them. In the
Argentine Ismay, a trained nurse, did a
spot of work, and says that trained
nurses can always get a jojb, and good
pay for it, in that country.
Nancy Elphinstone also is home again,
but not to stay. She will do a little
trousseau collecting, and then go back to
Upminster to wed fiance Lieut. C. A.
Meyer, R.N.R.


Replace worn
Valves with
Mallard
The
Master
Valve
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Vi
RADIO NEWS
SIRUFER 4.
A New High-frequency Iron-core Material for Australia.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
DY courtesy of Ducon Condenser Pty., Waterloo, Sydney,
details of an advanced type of core, with developments
and uses, are outlined here. Apart from certain features which
make Sirufer cores particularly interesting, provision for variable
permeability opens up a wider field of application. Radio
apparatus incorporating these new cores should not be far
distant in Australia.
The primary development of the special
form of iron-core which is rapidly taking
its inevitable place in radio design to-day
first saw the light of day in Germany,
This new type of core, known as Sirufer
4, is a product of the laboratories of
the Siemens Halske A.G. organisation,
handled exclusively in Australia by
Ducon. Early last year, Siemens Halske,
Fig. 1.
working with core material known as
Sirufer 1, developed cores in this material
of an H-shape. These were very suc-
cessful, but it was found that, the neces-
sity for “trimming,” or providing induct-
ance compensation, indicated a line of
further development, which led to
Sirufer 4. This newer material is made
with various core shapes possessing
many advantages, and in particular the
cross-shaped core has been found especi-
ally efficient. This is illustrated in detail
in Fig. 1.
Ever since radio became something
more than a plaything radio engineers
have striven to improve continually on
coils used in R.F. circuits. Reference to
publications over the last 10 years will
show that this has been no half-hearted
business. It has become essential in
recent years to get away from the large-
diameter coils of 3in. or more, for the
modern receiver must be compact and
simply controlled. In the process of
development many weird and wonderful
coil arrangements came to light, and it
is interesting to note that, after a lapse
of some' years, Litz wire has come into
prominence again. Receivers of the best
modern types invariably use Litz wire
for R.F. inductances, and particularly for
intermediate frequency transformers.
The use of Litz wire is a step toward
more efficient inductances, but it is not
just a matter of winding such wire on
any old kind of supporting former.
Much has been developed lately in
the way of good high-
frequency insulation
material, and receiver
manufacturers are paying
more attention to. this.
Yet, to make efficient in-
ductances of Litz on air-
cores, the overall size
still remains big. The
introduction of the
special iron-cores now in
widespread use is the
logical outcome of the
need for keeping com-
ponents as small and
space-conserving as pos-
sible. In the specifica-
tions for the use of
Sirufer 4 cores, it is seen
that a very high-grade in-
sulating material for the
coil support, known as
Trolitul, is used, and the
designers state that “it is
assumed that a good
high-frequency Litz wire is used for wind-
ing purposes.”
Measurement of Coil Losses.
It is often stated that it is not pos-
sible to measure absolute values of coil
losses, and that such values are rated
as relative. The makers of Sirufer 4
have left nothing to assumption in this
A representative gathering of N.S.W. radio amateurs at the annual dinner
of the W.I.A. (N.S.W. division) held recently in Sydney.
respect, and have developed a high-
frequency differential measuring bridge
with an accuracy limited only by the
standards employed. The coil to be
measured is connected in series with a
variable condenser which is a high-grade
instrument with little or no losses. In
the circuit arrangement, it follows that,
with the coil and condenser in resonance
at a given measuring frequency, any
A.C. voltage difference will be due to
the total loss-resistance of the coil. Be-
ing a bridge circuit, the indicating gal-
vanometer returns to zero at resonance,
and from the condenser adjustment can
be read the inductance value. The total
amount of high-frequency resistance in
circuit, controlled by a variable resistor,
gives the total value of the loss resist-
ance of the coil.
Inductance Compensation.
In the manufacture of cores and coils
variations from standard are often en-
countered, traceable to variations in
permeability and small differences in
turns. Additional variations also appear
when a coil unit is wired into a chassis.
It is desirable to compensate for such
variations by means of a
trimming device on the coil,
and in this connection ex-
perienced readers may re-
call the principle used many
years ago in a receiver
known as the Peridyne. In
this a metal disc was varied
in relation to the coil of
each R.F. unit, and induc-
tance “trimming’’ obtained
by what was virtually an
introduction of loss. With
modern iron - cores, the
process is different, the
desirable trimming being
accomplished through the
medium of the core itself.
There are various ways of
doing this. The method
adopted in the Sirufer 4
cross-shaped core is by the
provision of a central
trimming screw, naturally
made of the same material
as the core. Fig. J shows
this type of core with the
trimming screw and the
two halves of the coil former. In order
to facilitate mounting, one side of the
core is fitted with a boss, the coil flanges
being an integral part of the core itself.
The threaded centre hole is continued
along the entire core axis so that the
thread is utilised in the dual functions
of trimming and mounting. The former
is done by the trimming screw and the
latter by a screw constructed from suit-
able insulating material. This, in the
case of Sirufer .cores, is Trolitul, and
both the mounting screw and coil-former
are made of this material. As Trolitul
may not be readily obtainable in Aus-
tralia, it is stressed by Ducon that these
cores should be mounted on high-grade
mica insulation as the next most suit-
able material available. To mount these
cores on poor insulating material would
undo all the good of the initial design
and purpose.
In Fig. 2 is illustrated an example of
an aerial band-pass filter of European
design, using Sirufer 4 cores, and
designed for a broadcast receiver. This
is a long- and medium-wave unit, and
the medium-wave side (corresponding to
Australian broadcast range) is equipped
with cross-shaped cores. So far, no
aerial or band-pass coil units have
appeared in Australia, and attention has
been paid only to intermediate trans-
formers. With the introduction of
Sirufer 4 cores, with the valuable feature
of variable permeability and other out-
standing points, manufacturers should be
able to make yet another step forward
in the continual quest for higher effi-
ciency in radio-receiver design.
D.B.K.
City Short-wave Diallings.
The German South Asia programme
for May does not make any notable
alterations as regards the stations operat-
ing, but there are minor variations in the
time-schedule. The transmissions are as
follows: —DJA, 3.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. ;
DJQ and DJN, 3.30 p.m. to 6.50 p.m. ;
DJR. 4.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. ; DJQ, 6.50
p.m. to 10 p.m. : DJB and DJN, 6.50 p.m.
to 2 a.m. ; DJE, 9.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. :
DJL, 8.45 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. ; DJA, and
DJE, 11.5 p.m. to 2 a.m. There do not
appear to be any “Letter Box” items,
but every night at 6.55 there are “Greet-
Fig. 2.
ings to our listeners.” One item in the
East Asia programme (DJA, DIE, DJN.
DIB) arouses curiosity. It is called
“Short-wave Amateurs’ Hour” (it is really
only a quarter of an hour), and is fixed
for 12.30 a.m., May 28.
On the 19-metre band DIB has not
been heard well of late. On the other
hand, excellent entertainment has been
provided from London and Paris, though
at rather unexpected hours —from Lon-
don in the early mornings and from Paris
in the early evenings. London uses GSI
before 7 a.m., and afterwards changes
over to GSO. The latter station appears
to be the better, although both deteriorate
rapidly towards the end of their respec-
tive sessions. Radio Coloniale starts at
4.30 to 5 p.m. and is at its peak by about
6 p.m., coming through with tremendous
strength. One Sunday evening it gave
very fine choral singing, followed by
Bach’s beautiful “Air for the G String.’
while the spoken French was all that the
most fastidious ear could desire. On
Tuesday evenings, when it is heard for a
while concurrently with PCI, it is as
definitely superior to the Dutch station
as the latter is to DIB. Radio Coloniale’s
early morning and early evening trans-
mission on 25.23 m. are well known, as
is its afternoon transmission on 25.6 m.
It was somewhat of a discovery, however,
to find the 25.6 m. wave-length being
used one morning at 8.25 —a capital
transmission, comparing favorably with
that given earlier on 25.23 m.
On several evenings recently a power-
ful Russian station —apparently anew
one —has been heard testing on about
22.8 m. (a little below VPD). It has
something of the exuberance of RVIS.
but its quality is harsh and raw, and the
voice of its announcer is as pleasant to
listen to as an ungreased axle. It gives
recorded items which are constantly in-
terrupted, and ends with a ’phone talk
and the counting in Russian of 1 to 10
(or I to 5) for a quarter of an hour at
a stretch.
The point-to-point transmission from
the Colufnbia Broadcasting System to
Honolulu, which has been relayed by
KKC (?) between 3 and 4 p.m. on Sun-
days, comes through here on 21.9 m.
with the strength of a local. As spon-
sored programmes go it is quite good, and
only the humorless would fail to find en-
joyment in the rapid fire of the Ziegfeld
Follies. Nevertheless, listeners who,
the writer, turned from the long waves to
the short mainly in order to escape the
assaults on their ears of the radio adver-
tiser will regard the intrusion with
apprehension.
’Phone talks on 20 metres between
Australian and American amateurs still


FIVE WEEKS TO GO
Sydney's 1936
Amateur Radio Exhibition
Organised by the N.S.W. Division, Wire-
less Institute of Australia. Open June 15
to 20, in Presbyterian Assembly Hall
(Lower Hall), Wynyard Square.
Not a cabinet display—but a scientific
demonstration of the latest ideas in
amateur and short-wave radio.
Inter-club and general amateur construc-
tional competitions, with valuable prizes
donated by prominent traders and manu-
facturers.
Competitions open to non-members at a
small entry fee.
Complete radiophone and telegraphy trans-
mitters in action. Experimental television
apparatus. Demonstrations of ultra-short-
wave working. Military display.
THE week and meeting place for all
interested in short-wave radio! ,
The exhibition will be open from 6 p.m.
to 10 p.m. on dyne 15, 16, 18 and 19;
from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. on the 17th,
and from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on the 20th.
Admission 6d. Children 3d.
Exhibition committee:
H. r. Peterson, VK2HP
VV. Ryan, VK2TI
W. M. Moore. VK2HZ
I). B. Knock, VK2NO
S 3
fit
♦
Olympic
Australia's Champion Tyre
m
Obtainable Leading Garages, Tyre Dealers
and Service Stations throughout Australia.
A
MADE
IN AUSTRALIA...
BY AUSTRALIANS
continue, although some of the partici-
pants might be expected by now to have
become satiated with the sport. How-
ever, the Americans are such pleasant
fellows to talk to, so good-humored and
courteous and knowledgeable, that the
temptation to respond to their call must
be irresistible. In the last instalment of
these notes (B. 22/4/’36) mention was
made of. the advantages of using an
aerial specially cut for reception of the
American amateur wave-band. I should
have alluded also to the advantages of
making the aerial directional to the U.S.A.
My own experiences may be of
interest. The first horizontal doublet I
used happened to run N.E. and S.W., and
reception of the Americans was very in-
different. The second happened to run
about 16 degrees to the S.E. and N.W. of
E. and W. This was distinctly better.
When the latter aerial was swung round
another 30 degrees there was a further
improvement of about 40 p.c. Actually,
a horizontal doublet running S.E. and
N.W. should be about right for the U.S.A.
The magnetic bearing of San Francisco
is approximately N. 42 degrees E. of
Sydney. With the aid of an atlas and a
little trigonometry N.S.W. readers may
work out such bearings for themselves.
Draw a spherical triangle ABC, connect-
ing the transmitting centre (A), Sydney
(B) and the North Pole (C). BC will be
the latitude of B plus 90 degrees, AC
will be 90 degrees minus the latitude of
A (if it is in the Northern Hemisphere),
and the angle C will be the difference
between the longitude of A and B. Where
A is Santa Clara (near San Francisco)
the figures would be: —
BC =124 degrees ; AC = 53 degrees ;
C = 87 degrees 15 minutes.
Then apply the following formulae: —
A + B cos J(a — b) C
Tan = —— cot —
2 cos I(a + b) 2
A — B sin J(a — b) C
Tan = cot —
2 sin |(a + b) 2
where a and b represent the sides of the
spherical triangle opposite to A and B
respectively. In the case of Santa Clara,
A plus B would work out at 83 degrees
15 minutes, and A minus B at 31 degrees
22 minutes, from which it would be ap-
parent that B was 51 degrees 53 minutes,
This would be the “true” bearing. The
“magnetic” bearing would be 9 degrees
30 minutes less = 42 degrees 23 minutes.
In a letter to the writer, H. Jackson
(“Super Wasp”), of the “West Australian
Wireless News,” mentions a stranger on
48.6m., which opens at 11 p.m. with the
“March of the Dolls” and which, he
thinks, is the Mexican XEXA. He men-
tions also having heard several Cubans
in the mornings (the best being C09GC
on 48.79m.), as well as IQA on 20.37m.,
sending opera music ; XECR, Mexico, on
40.65m. (9 to 11 a.m., Mondays only) ;
and Radio Tananarive, Madagascar, on
49.9m., with call letters FIU (referred to
by many as FQIA), closing at 1.45 a.m.
P. R. W.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Two more changes were announced
recently. No. 2 transmission from the
8.8. C. is now on GSG in the 16m. band
and also a new station, GSH, just below
14m, PHI has changed to the 16m. band,
and reception should be interesting this
year in view of the change in conditions
of the shorter wave-lengths. GSH is
audible on ’phones from starting up, but
drops rapidly after 11 p.m., and with
more high speed fading than on GSG,
which also fades down considerably by
11.30 p.m.
Early evenings are poor, and so far
there is no improvement in the 49m.
band.
The mornings after 7 a.m. are much
improved, with Americans on 25m. and
31m. at better strength, but the writer
seldom gets an op-
portunity of listen-
ing at this time.
The station heard
on 14m. very close
to GSJ has not yet
been identified, and
a ’phone station
has been heard
quite strongly
about 13.5; also
Morse stations
down to 10m. This
condition of short-
wave reception has
not been observed
by the writer for
many years, and
with the much im-
proved valves of
to-day one assumes
that receivers will
have to include
ultra-shorts to get
all stations.
The 80m. band
has been explored,
but with poor re-
sults, the Russian
RVIS being just
audible through
static on 70m., and
only a few amateur
’phone stations strong enough to come
through the high noise level.
On 20m. there are amateur ’phone
stations from all parts of the world, and
it is almost as difficult to separate them
as on the 40m. band.
Both VK3LR and VK3ME are heard
very strongly in daylight now, but dis-
appear entirely at night.
2RO is the outstanding early-morning
station when reception is not ruined by
FZR.
NIGHTOWL.
Latest in the Trade.
Radiotron technical bulletins under
the title of “Radiotronics” are very use-
ful to the technician. They are obtain-
able on application to A.W.A. Valve Co.,
47 York-street, Sydney. No. 61, just
released, deals with dual-wave battery
receivers, and is thus of particular
interest to country readers. Two circuit
diagrams are shown, giving the use of
Radiotron two-volt valve series, with
types IC4, IC6, 185, ID4 and 30 and 19
for Class-B audio. In describing a dual-
wave receiver for constructional purposes
nothing is left to guesswork, and full
details are given of coil windings and
sizes and, what is more, the specifica-
tions for a Class-B input transformer.
Postage should be included when send-
ing for these bulletins, which are free
* * * *
A visit to the R.C.S. factory at Ivy-
street, Darlington (N.S.W.), found pro-
prietor Ron Bell engrossed with the plans
and preparations for a more advanced
type of iron-core intermediate frequency
transformer. The new R.C.S. product is
the direct outcome of the Ideal Amateur
Superhet, described in B. 15/4/’36, and
is to be modelled on the lines of well-
known American types. The primary
and secondary coils, mounted on iron
cores, will be arranged at right-angles,
and will provide for a variable coupling,
with a low minimum. This feature is
very desirable in iron-core I.F.Ts., and
Bell is to be congratulated on being the
first coil-kit manufacturer in Australia
to approach the iron-core question
thoroughly. Several new lines will
shortly be seen from this factory, and
they will be welcomed by short-wave
constructors and amateurs generally.
Lopsided Modulation.
During transmission experiments on
five metres around Sydney in 1935 many
stations suffered from a form of modu-
lation where the voice could be heard
clearly only on one side of the carrier.
In the “centre” a form of overloading
or distortion was often present, and the
receiver had to be mistuned accordingly.
Describing a modulated ultra-audion
form of transmitter in “Radio” (U.S.A.),
W6JMI mentions that “when using shunt
feed the voice was on the high-frequency
side of the carrier, but series feed put
the voice right in the centre of the car-
rier, and at the same time put less work
on the R.F. choke.” A point to remem-
ber during coming five-metre tests.
In “Radio” for April, 1936.
Notable articles are “A Controlled
Carrier Grid-modulated ’Phone,” “Dia-
thermic Construction,” “Getting the Most
from the Twisted Pair,” “High-efficiency
Frequency Doublers,” “Notes on Grid Ex-
citation,” “Metal-tube Microphone Am-
plifiers,” “A Relay Rack at Low Cost,”
“Multi-band Single Wire-fed Antenna,”
“The Noise-reduction Problem,” “More
“Mrs. Beefar’s cooking talk this morning will be
'Tripe'!"
Effective Automatic Gain Control,”
“Putting the New Eimac 35T to Work,”
“R.F. Interstage Coupling Methods,”
“Economical 10-metre ’Phone-c.w. Rig,”
“Remote - controlled Band - switching,”
“A Dual-frequency Crystal Calibrator,”
“Volume Range Expansion,” “A Keying
Monitor” and all the usual departmental
features. This magazine is invaluable
to progressive radio technicians and
amateurs. Subscriptions are accepted,
20s. annually, at The Bulletin office,
252 George-street, Sydney.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
My receiver is a Stromberg-Carlson dual-
wave battery superhet, six months old , Local
conditions are bad, and interference from power
station and electric motors makes broadcast-
band reception difficult and never free from
noise. The short-wave band will not bring
in Melbourne in daytime. Can you suggest
any means to overcome these troubles, par-
ticularly on short waves ? —412.
The question of non-reception of the Mel-
bourne stations in daytime is purely one of
general atmospheric receiving conditions.
Technically, you are in what is termed the
“skip distance,” where such stations cannot
be heard. At various times of the year you
may hear the wanted stations strongly at day-
light intervals. It is one of the vagaries of
short waves, and there is nothing you can do
about it. Electrical interference can be greatly
minimised by the use of specially designed
receiving aerial systems. One is supplied
by Australian General Electric, Ltd., and
known as the R.C.A. double doublet aerial.
This has a twisted-pair feeder line to the
receiver, and is efficient on broadcast and
short waves. On the other hand, a screened
lead-in of lead-covered wire, with the sheathing
earthed, may be quite effective on your present
aerial.
# * * *
(1) Can the Semi-tuned R.F. Short-wave
Three (B. 25/3/’36) be used for the broadcast
band if the R.F. stage is tuned ? (2) Would
a 1 4-volt bias battery be necessary ? (3) Are
the same values of resistors and condensers
suitable ? —413.
(1) Yes. A ,00035mfd. condenser should be
used to tune the grid circuit of the R.F. stage,
with a coil to suit. If the .OOOlSmfd. capacity
is used in the grid circuit of the detector
two coils will be needed for broadcast coverage.
Alternatively, a .00035mfd. tuning condenser
can be used here, but tuning will be extremely
sharp and somewhat difficult on the short
waves. (2) The bias battery can be dispensed
with, and the filament supply used to supply
the necessary bias. (3) Yes.
Jfc # * *
No. 407 (B. 29/4/’36) asked for address of
agent in Australia for Scott all-wave receivers.
It is now learnt that Otto Sandel, Ltd., York-
street, Sydney, are agents, and have a limited
number of models in stock.
* * * *
(1) Is there any possibility of an A.C.-D.C.
multi-meter for home construction being de-
scribed on this page ? (2) Would the circuit
sketched and values given be correct for
a line filter to use with a broadcast receiver on
240-volt A.C. mains? —414.
(1) Yes. (2) The circuit is correct, but two
more condensers should be used on the mains
side of the R.F. chokes. The choke windings
will be suitable, but the two coils should be
wound in opposite directions to minimise coup-
ling.


USEFUL DATA ON CHRYSLER
PLYMOUTH.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 11
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.K. in top
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.K. in
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.K. in 28ft.
Maximum speed, 77.92 m.p.K.
Petrol consumption, 22.5 m.p.g.
3-5 seconds,
in 7 seconds,
second in 5
**SILVER
£DGE”
TRADE d MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Via
Onln fheKISMETuim accurate
ķ
ĸ
k
k
ķ
In a recent independent test' of tyre gauges one out of
53 was found to be completely accurate. That one was
the KISMET And little wonder, lor behind the production
of every KISMET gauge is an experience as old as the
motor-car industry. The utmost care m manufacture, and
frequent testing, produce a tyre gauge which is really
worthy of the name.
\ g a uqe is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading
TYRE
Faultlessly finished in plated metals; with wide,
flat reading surfaces calibrated m 11b. units indi-
vidually numbered. v 1W -
Complete in neat, leather wallet »/
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD.. Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative; JOHN ARNOLD,
13 ' Hardware Street. Melbourne. C.l.
ĸ
The Steering column.
CHRYSLER PLYMOUTH SHOWS ITS
PACES.
QUIET AND ECONOMICAL WITH NEW OVERDRIVE.
By FRED BERRY.
WHEN four years ago the Chrysler people decided to
redesign their smallest six-cylinder model and hand it
the Chrysler Plymouth nameplate, a car was produced which
met with an instant acceptance by a critical public. Each
succeeding annual model showed clearly that the designers were
not content to rest on their laurels, but were determined to
maintain a very high standard in manufacturing practice and
to incorporate any proven new idea that might be expected to
enhance reliability, roadworthiness or efficiency, while still
keeping the price within reasonable limits.
Adhering to this policy, the ’36 model tested recently over
the “Bulletin” course, though still retaining the fundamental
mechanical features upon which the Plymouth’s success has
been based, incorporates several valuable improvements in
design, while many details have been modified to suit Australian
conditions better.
Chassis is twice as rigid as in any
previous model, while the Safe-T-steel
bodies, although lighter in weight and
neater in design, have recently
given practical proof that they
offer far greater protection to
passengers and crew than any
type hitherto fitted.
Suspension and steering have
been modified to eliminate
shock and give added safety
when driving at speed over
rough highways, and passenger
comfort has been further im-
proved by increasing available
room in all closed bodies.
The six-cylinder L-head type
motor is mounted in the chassis
on Chrysler patented floating-
power mountings. Bore and
stroke are and 4|in. re-
spectively, giving a swept
volume of 201.3 cubic inches.
Maximum brake - horsepower
developed at 3600 r.p.m., using
6.7-to-l high-compression head,
is 82, R.A.C. rating being
23.44.
Cylinder block and upper
half of crankcase are cast in-
tegrally, the crankcase being
heavily ribbed to maintain a
rigid support for crankshaft
bearings. Crankshaft is fully
balanced, and runs on four precision-
type interchangeable main bearings,
whilst counterweights forged to each
Transmission case, showing all silent helical-cut gear
pinions, with automatic overdrive and freewheel unit
at rear.
throw eliminate vibration throughout
the full speed range. Pistons are of
Anodic-coated, split-skirt aluminium-
Chrysler Plymouth de luxe sedan equipped with overdrive, tested over the
BULLETIN course.
alloy type, each being fitted with tour
rings, above the gudgeon pin—two com-
pression rings and two oil-retaining rings.
Connecting rods are I-
section, machined and care-
fully matched as to weight,
while bearings are remov-
able heavy-duty type, lined
with cadmium-nickel bear-
ing metal.
Camshaft is of cast-iron,
with special quiet cam de-
sign, driven by silent chain
from crankshaft and run-
ning in four large pressure-
lubricated bearings, Nos. 1
to .3 being of removable
type.
Side-by-side valves are
used, intakes of chrome-
nickel alloy and exhausts of
silichrome steel. Guides are
removable. Inlet-valve seats
are cut direct in the metal of the
cylinder block, but exhaust-valve seat-
ings are hardened steel inserts shrunk
into the casting, so resisting the “pit-
ting” effect of hot gases and greatly
increasing the time
between top over-
hauls. Valve springs
are of non-surging,
variable-pitch type
made from Swed-
ish steel wire. Tap-
pets are mushroom
type, stems being
of carbon steel and
heads of chrome
steel, with provi-
sion for adjust-
ment.
The cooling sys-
tem is fan-assisted,
pump - circulated,
with cellular radiator. Thermostatic
control of water circulation is in-
corporated, together with a by-pass
system wherein a normal working
temperature is reached immediately
after starting up from cold. Full-length
water jackets are provided for in the
coring of the cylinder block, thus main-
taining uniform expansion of cylinder
walls under the most exacting conditions
of operation.
A further useful feature included in
the cooling system is the water-distribut-
ing tube, which runs the full length of
the cylinder block, to which the pump
forces cool water at high velocity to all
parts of the .block. Open-
ings in this tube are so posi-
tioned that the jets will first
impinge directly on the ex-
haust-valve seatings, which
are the hottest parts of the
casting when the engine is
running.
Full-force feed lubrica-
tion is used, main, connect-
ing-rod and camshaft bear-
ings being supplied by fil-
tered oil under pressure,
passing through oilways cast in the
cylinder block and crankcase. Cylinder
walls and pistons are lubricated by
splash through metered holes in the
connecting-rod bearings. As these holes
come into register once each crankshaft
rev., a jet of oil under pressure is pro-
jected on to all friction surfaces within
the cylinder block.
Particular attention has been given to
preventing road dust or foreign matter
from mixing with oil and so damaging
bearing surfaces. An efficient air-cleaner
is attached to the carburettor intake, the
oil-cleaning unit filters oil continuously
and the crankcase ventilating system em-
ploys a copper mesh screen on the
breather pipe to prevent direct contami-
nation of sump oil.
Fuel is held in a 12gal. tank at rear,
and drawn by a diaphragm-
type mechanical pump, driven
by an eccentric from the cam-
shaft, through metal pipes
located outside the frame
members to a down-draught
carburettor equipped with
accelerating pump, air-cleaner
and silencer.
Choke control is by button
on dash, interconnected with
the throttle, so that the throttle
partly opens whenever the
choke is used.
Automatic manifold heat
control is incorporated in the
induction system. During the
warming-up process some of
the exhaust gases are passed
round a hot-spot to pre-heat
the fuel mixture before it
reaches the combustion cham-
ber. When the motor reaches
normal working temperature
a valve automatically by-passes
all hot gases directly into the
exhaust manifold.
Electrical equipment is six-
volt type, using separate
units. The heavy-duty generator, driven,
together with fan and water pump,
by a rubber belt from a crank-
shaft pulley, is air-cooled to make
adequate provision for the heavier loads
Sturdy four-bearing crankshaft, showing the seven
counterweights forged integrally with the shaft.
imposed by radio, cigar lighters and
other accessories. A voltage regulator
is also fitted to ensure the exact charg-
ing rate under varying conditions of load


mik
It TOUR CAR
HARR TO START}
replace worn plugs
KIiCHAMPIONS
Obtainable at ail leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
L.HAMPION
SPARKING PLUGS
WINDSOR,
CANADA
Announcing
OL
MOTOR
GREASE
★
Costs More than other
Grease but saves you
pounds. Ask your
garageman.
2 lb. Tins . . . 2'B
*
Advt. of I. CARRIGAN, Sydney, Melbourne and throughout Australia
and to prevent overcharging the battery
on long runs during daylight.
The starter motor is of the positive
gear-shift type, in which the starter
pinion and ring gear are meshed be-
fore current is applied.
Ignition is by coil and battery, spark
advance being controlled automatically
by vacuum from the intake manifold,
Spark plugs are of 14mm. type.
Transmission is through a ventilated
single-plate dry-disc clutch to a three-
speed-and-reverse gearbox fitted with
synchro-silent helical gears throughout,
Clutch pedal is mounted on the frame
instead of being integral with the power
plant, so that movement of the engine is
not transmitted to the pedal. Ratios of
pinions in gear are: Top, direct; second,
Diagrammatic section of Plymouth engine, showing
full-length water jackets and directional cooling.
1.55 to 1 ; low, 2.57 to 1 ; reverse, 3.48
to 1. An optional fitting at slight
extra cost is an automatic overdrive unit
for assembly with standard gearbox,
which cuts in at some predetermined
speed between 35 and 45 m.p.h. and
slows the engine revs, down by one-third
for any given road speed. The over-
drive unit consists of a separate set of
gears located at the rear of the trans-
mission case, together with a freewheel-
ing unit.
By an ingenious arrangement the car
stays in normal top gear or freewheels
when the foot is taken off the accele-
rator up to about 40 m.p.h. At higher
road speeds the freewheel unit locks,
and, owing to centrifugal force, a set
of weights, held in position by springs,
are forced out and against a drum
which encloses them, so bringing into
operation the overdrive. The device can
be thrown in or out of operation by a
manual control on the dash, and where
required conventional drive can be held
at all road speeds:
Final drive is through open propeller
shaft with sealed metal-cased roller
bearings and universal joints at front
and rear to a semi-floating type rear axle
in pressed-steel banjo-type housing.
Adjustable taper roller bearings are used
throughout. Final reduction is 4.125
to 1.
Chassis is exceptionally strong, of
rigid, double-drop X-member design,
with box-section reinforcement, wheel-
base being 113 in. and road clearance
under differential housing Biin.
Suspension is on semi-elliptic springs
front and rear, fitted with silent
U-threaded shackles in conjunction with
double-acting adjustable hydraulic shock-
absorbers on front and single-acting on
rear. A rigid metal bar is bolted to the
arms of both front shock-absorbers and
extends across the chassis, the purpose
being to eliminate sway and keep the
car on an even keel when rounding
curves.
Steering gear is of improved worm-
and-roller type, with two tapered roller-
thrust bearings. Road shock transmitted
to the steering wheel is reduced to a
minimum by reason of spring and drag
links, both being anchored at rear. Steer-
ing-gear reduction is 18.2 to 1.
Service brakes are self-equalising
hydraulic on all four wheels, stepped wheel
cylinders assuring equal distribution of
pressure over front and rear shoes in
each wheel assembly. Brake drums are
of centrifuse type, with cast-iron liners.
The hand brake is independently
mounted, adjacent to the gearbox, and
actuates a contracting metal band on a
drum located on the front end of the
propeller shaft. Bodywork, by Richards,
is Safe-T-steel, neatly designed, with
armorplate glass in the windscreen. All-
metal panels are Bonderised before paint-
ing to prevent rust, and all bolts, nuts
and washers are treated by a similar
process.
Front seats are adjustable. Interior
fittings include dome light, sun visor,
assist cords, arm rests, ash
receivers, robe cord, wind-
shield crank and windshield
wiper. A large built-in
trunk at the rear serves as
a luggage compartment and
houses the spare wheel.
The instrument board,
neatly designed, includes a
large speedometer, oil
gauge, fuel gauge, water-
temperature indicator, am-
meter, throttle and choke
control and light switches.
The four-door de luxe
sedan taken over the test
course was driven by Otto
James, of York Motors,
Ltd., N.S.W. distributors,
and weighed, with passenger
and driver and eight gallons fuel, 3Hcwt.
The speedometer reading was 3686 miles,
the motor having been thoroughly run
in. The engine ran smoothly, silently
and without noticeable vibration at all
revs., and the Plymouth proved an ex-
tremely easy car to handle in traffic, top-
gear pickup and steering qualities being
outstanding features. Once out on the
open country road, and with the over-
drive in action, a cruising speed of 55
to 60 m.p.h. was shown to be possible,
while comparatively slow engine revs.
Left —By old method of mounting, body
overhangs frame and is attached to
wooden sills.
Right—Plymouth method. Steel body
follows frame contour and is rigidly
bolted to side members.
tended to quieten the motor to a marked
degree.
On the rolling test from a speed of
15 m.p.h. in neutral the Plymouth
covered 700 yards before coming to
rest, while the measured mile was
covered in 46 l-ssec., averaging 77.92
m.p.h. On this timed section the over-
drive gear was used, and so quiet was
the motor that conversation could be
maintained in normal tones without
difficulty.
Over the rough by-pass road through
Grose Vale approaching Kurrajong sus-
pension was found to be satisfactory, de-
spite the fact that the tyres were over-
inflated, and in clocking 3min. 13 4-ssec.
for a standing-start climb of 2 1-5 miles
of the final steep section of Kurrajong
Mountain the car showed excellent
front-end stability and roadworthiness in
negotiating the many difficult bends.
Returning down the mountain the
emergency-braking equipment was tested,
stopping the car in 10 yards from 15
m ™ Hrtwr. arndf'
m.p.h. on down-grade
Traffic tests were then conducted on
the Castlereagh road en route to Pen-
rith. Slow running for 350 yards was
followed immediately by an accelerated
350 yards, the former being clocked in
4min. 15sec. and the latter in 15 l-ssec.,
making slow average 2.8 m.p.h. and
accelerated 47.3 m.p.h.—extremely satis-
factory performances proving the in-
herent flexibility of the power plant.
From & §t J ding tQ 50 m . p . h .
occupied n 3_s sec ., 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
tQp 7sec>> 10 to 3 q m .p.h. in second ssec.,
and j n test j ng braking equipment the cat-
puned up f rom 25 m.p.h. in 28ft. Fuel
consumed was sgal. 1 pint, an average
Q f 22.5 m.p.g. (35.1 ton miles), the
average speed for total distance of 115.5
miles being 39.2 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
H.L.Z. (Brisbane). — Oil in the gearbox of
my ’27 car runs down the torque tube to the
diff. housing, the leak being so great that
box is usually empty after 250 miles. What
can be done ?
Only remedy is to pull out the metal uni-
versal joint and build up splines on the drive
shaft until it is a neat fit.
% $ # *
E.J.R. (Griffiths, N.S.W.).—(I) Is the Ford
car a British product? (2) What is the regis-
tration charge on the F 8 in N.S.W. ?
(1) The V 8 as imported to Australia is built
in Canada by Ford Motor Co. of Canada,
an organisation separate from the parent co.
The 10-h.p. is built in England. Bodywork,
assembly and many of the chassis details are
done in Australia. (2) £8 14s.
* * * *
P.W.P. (Gisborne, M.L.). — The mileage of
my recently-bought ’35 model six-cylinder car
(1600 miles ) so far has been from 15 m.p.g.
on ordinary runs to 19 m.p.g. on long tours.
I had expected to gel 18 to 22. Agent has put
in a smaller jet which, whilst giving better fuel
consumption, does not appear to give sufficient
pick-up when the throttle is opened quickly.
With the smaller jet the exhaust system is
much hotter on returning from a long run,
though water temperature remains normal.
Was the change advisable, and will it involve
greater strain on the engine when the car is
fully laden ?
At 1800 miles it is probable that the engine
is not yet thoroughly run in and is still stiff,
consequently performance is as yet below
normal. Full throttle acceleration makes very
heavy demand on fuel, and normal con-
sumption can be secured only by careful
driving. Provided there are no fundamental
errors in adjustment of either motor or trans-
mission details, your car, rationally driven,
should do between 20 and 24 m.p.g. Smaller
jet will not impose greater strain on motor,
but owing to supplying weaker mixture might
ultimately damage exhaust valves and seatings.
:J: * * *
N.G. (Benalla, Vic.). — I recently bought a
’32 model six-cylinder car and immediately
fitted a new set of rings, but after 3000 miles
plugs oil up, exhaust is smoky and pulling is
bad. Cause and cure ?
You do not state total mileage covered, but
symptoms indicate that there is excessive cylin-
der wear and that the new rings are inadequate.
As a temporary measure, you might fix special
oversize rings, but a complete remedy of the
trouble can be obtained only by reboring or
relining cylinders; in the case of reboring, also
fitting new pistons and rings.
* * * *
W.S. (Lismore, N.S.W.). — My four-cylinder
10 -h.p. car has now covered 38,000 miles, and
on assembling the engine after grinding valves
and decarbonising the oil-pressure gauge gives
no reading, although normally the oil pressure
should be between 40 lb. and 60 1 b., depending
on distance travelled. Is it safe for me to con-
tinue driving the car ?
No. If the units have been assembled cor-
rectly there must be an air lock in the oil
line. First remove rear screw in pump casing
under valve tappet chamber and, using an oil-
can, prime the pump. Start up the motor, and
if the oil gauge does not show pressure examine
the release valve and note if it is stuck m
fully-open position.
* * * *
M.S.B. (Mosman, N.S.W.).—(I) Looking
through recent descriptions of cars tested by
The Bulletin I note that some engines use
automatic spark advance, others vacuum-
operated ignition. What is the difference be-
tween the two systems ? (2) Does either offer
any practical advantages over hand-controlled
advance and retard of spark?
(1) Both types of ignition control, centri-
fugal and vacuum operated, as used in modern
practice, are described as automatic. Centri-
fugal type depends entirely upon engine speed
to actuate a governor control and so alter
the degree of advance and retard. Vacuum
control depends on depression in intake mani-
fold so that when throttle is fully opened,
for mtrposes of rapid acceleration, the spark
is automatically retarded. A combination ol
both systems is frequently employed. (2)
Hand control depends on the human element
entirely, so to secure best results the driver
should alter his spark lever every time the
accelerator pedal is moved. This is never done
in practice, and as a consequence efficiency is
never equal to that where automatic advance
is incorporated.
* * * -i-
H.E.J. (Cairns, Q.). — The dashboard fuel
gauge in my ’3l model car has not registered
correctly for some time, showing “empty”
when there is about six gallons in the tank.
How can it be adjusted ?
The gauge in your car is in the form of a
U tube, and depends, among other things, for
its efficient operation on an airtight pipe-line
from tank to dash. If there is the slightest
leak in the line erratic readings will be re-
corded. Should this line be found free from
faults the error must be due to loss of red
fluid in the gauge itself. Unless a specially
prepared Telegauge fluid is used to refill it will
not be possible to get consistent and accurate
readings over the complete tankage.
# * $ $
A.S. (Pentland, N.Q.).—(l) What is best
speed to drive car generator off a stationary
engine for battery charging, and what should
the charging rate be ? (2) Could it be run off
a wind wheel without gearing ?
(1) The generator will give a constant charge
of approximately 10 amperes at any revs, be-
tween 800 and 4000. For your purpose,
suggest running at 1200-1500 r.p.m. (2) No,
gearing would be necessary.
G.H. (Narrabeen, N.S.W.). — Instruction book
says plug points on my new engine should be
25 thou, apart. Previous car had points 27
thou, wide and ran much smoother at low
speeds. Anything wrong in using the wider
gap ?
No reason why you should not experiment,
although maker’s advice is usually right for all-
round operation. It is advisable, if the plug
gap is altered, to vary the raake-and-break
width in the distributor.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
‘*Thc Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an. advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & GO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
Lcndcn Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
CIK mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
P. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
The truth about
Advertising!
We invite you to
take our word, of
course . . . but in
case our story
sounds too good to
be true, ask the
man who advertises
in
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
Net Sales , 61,361
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newspaper House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON —F. A. Smyth. 3>-40 Ludgat.e
Hill. E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas,
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers;
. \•' . . ~ .
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed-each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
in ADVERTISING
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner’’ (Eet. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication,
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS
REACH THE HOMES IN LAUNCESTON
AND THE NORTH
Full Information. Copies, Advertising- Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C. 1.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
■ J ;V > ■
CAM’s new power of 1000
watts carries, it into the
s farthest outback farm and
* into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
the tasic he had set himself. Well, he would put it to
the old man. It would be.much easier.
But he had to admit it was Elaine’s opinion that
mattered, and much as he dreaded broaching the
subject he desperately wanted it settled. For he knew
that until then he would have no peace of mind. He
was no longer in doubt —no longer afraid to acknow-
ledge the fact that the future, his life, and his hopes
of happiness hinged on her reply. He wanted to
laugh out loud at his futile imaginings—that he was
no one woman’s man. that he was a wanderer, a
chronic lone-hander who could not settle down, did
not want a home. He knew now that where Elaine
was there lay his happiness. Away from her the
world was a barren, empty place—an endless dry
stage where one could only go on and on in a great
weariness till the crows drew gradually nearer to
mock and tell that the end was near.
Damn it, why did his thoughts always end on
a funereal note? He rose abruptly and walked round
to the sick room.
The invalid greeted him cheerfully and motioned
him to a chair. His eyes were bright and alert, and
everything about him suggested that he had obtained
anew lease of life. Bill marvelled at the display of
vitality after last night’s collapse and wondered if
the doctor were really right—if there was absolutely
no hope of recovery.
He managed to persuade Elaine to take a nap
while the patient .was so well. He himself intended
to share the night nursing from now on, but he did
not tell her in the meantime. When she left the room
he drew his chair close to the . bed where he could
face the sick man, and commented on his changed
appearance. •
“I feel wonderful!” Atherton replied. “Tell me
all about last night. I’m sorry you got hurt. Elaine
told me all she knew, but I gathered there was quite
a lot left unsaid.”
Bill repeated the story of the tracking and capture
of Williams from the very beginning. When he had
finished the old man lay quiet for a time. “I’m sorry
about Williams —I liked him, and found him a very
capable man. But I must also thank you for all you
have done for us. I cannot fail to realise how for-
tunate we are in having you here ; in fact, my only
regret is that we did not meet years before. Still, for
your sake it was better to have your life shaped by
men like Mac Andrew and—what was his name? —
Dinny. I’d like to have met that man! I’m afraid my
influence would not have helped you.”
He fixed his bright eyes intently on the younger
man. “What made you leave your home in England
and come out to Australia?”
Bill stared out through the window with narrowed
eyes before he turned with apparent reluctance. “I
have never mentioned this to anyone, but I’d like to
tell you. I was expelled from school for giving an
awful hiding to another boy —I nearly killed him,
in fact —for spreading a rumor that I was a bastard.
When I arrived home 1 found my mother very ill,
heart trouble, and she died shortly afterwards. When
1 went through her papers with the lawyer I found
that what they had said was true. My mother had
been deserted by—by my father, and she had brought
me up in a district where she was unknown. After
the funeral I booked a passage to Australia. I wanted
to get clean away from everyone I knew—to start
afresh.”
The head on the pillow nodded sympathetically.
“And it still hurts to be reminded of the birthstain
even by accident?”
Bill nodded.
“Very foolish, Bill! What does it matter, any-
how, and who is to know how we are born unless we
advertise the fact ourselves? You’ll excuse my blunt-
ness, but, really, you have magnified a trifle far
beyond its real significance, and the aspect you lake
is based entirely on snobbishness.”
“That’s all very well!” —Bill's tone was bitter —
“but if you had suffered”
“Wait a minute! Supposing I had. Would I
be entitled to speak?”
Bill stared. “What do you mean?”
“Only that I am in the same position as you.”
“ You!’ ‘
The old man smiled on. “I came out to Aus-
tralia under a similar set of circumstances, except that
perhaps my case was even more involved than yours,
but our feelings were the same. Hate toward the
parent responsible for our misfortune and a desire
to escape the eyes of all our acquaintances. We
were both guilty of snobbishness. We had acquired
the habit partly through our super-sensitiveness and
our inability to rise mentally above our social environ-
ment. We praised or damned a man for circum-
stances over which he had no control. A man should
be judged by what he makes of his life —the hand is
dealt him but he must play it. He may be born in
the slums and attain lo wealth and honor, or he may
be born to the purple and end in the gutter. These
are the things that count! We made the mistake of
accepting a false sense of superiority —we allowed
ourselves to be placed on a pedestal, and when cold
truth knocked that pedestal from under us, well —
the higher the. pedestal the greater the crash ! We
were very foolish, Bill.”
Bill could only sit and stare and listen dazedly,
letting the waves of the old man’s philosophy lap
soothingly among his thoughts.
There was nothing new in what he had said. Bill
had tired of hearing those same views expressed again
and again, and each repetition of the empty platitudes
had only deepened his unconcealed cynicism, while
the givers he regarded as smug hypocrites offering a
cheap salve for a wound against which they them-
selves were invulnerable.
But this was different. Here was a man —and
one with all the attributes of birth and breeding—
calmly acknowledging the illegitimacy of his birth, yet
in no way downcast or ashamed of it. The simple
confession carried more weight than all the arguments
and platitudes in the world.
But what of Elaine? The thought loomed up
suddenly like a black thunder cloud blotting out the
new-found warmth and sunshine. Would she share
her father’s point of view, or would her smile fade —
her lips tighten at the news?
He crouched tensely forward, his hands gripping
the chair-arms till the knuckles showed white under
the tightened skin, torturing himself with the mental
picture of Elaine—drawing back —turning slowly away
from him.
She would be sympathetic, of course. But he
hated any sort of pity. From Elaine it would be
intolerable; yet the situation, the possibilities, had
to be faced. His dark, introspective eyes lifted, came
to rest on the patient, then they slowly cleared,
regained their focus, and his own problem dwindled
in the immediate need of the other. The old man’s
eyes were ciosed. the hands clenching tightly on the
sheets betrayed the pain reasserting itself.
The grim lines faded from the watchers face.
With a returning sense of responsibility he rose heavily
and began to fit together the shining hypodermic
syringe.
Chapter XXVII.
ELAINE appeared at dinner looking bright and
refreshed, but her smile gradually faded in the
presence of the other’s unreceptive mood. “What
is it, Bill?” Fear clouded her face. “Is it dad? ’
He shook his head. “No. It’s all right. I’ll turn
in soon if you don’t mind.”
The girl was not satisfied. She looked at him
intently and her voice was subdued and vibrant.
“What is it, Bill? Can I help you?”
He avoided her eyes and sat staring at the table-
cloth in a heavy silence, trying to marshal the things
he had to say to her and searching fruitlessly for an
opening.
“Bill, what did the doctor say? I mean —how long/
He glanced up with a quick sense of relief at her
misinterpretation of the real cause of his silence, then
that, in turn', gave way to one of surprise at the new
Elaine that faced him across the table. There was a
calmness in her attitude that astounded him. A sense
of forearmed knowledge —the glimpse of a spirit pre-
pared to meet the inevitable with staunch, unyielding
courage.
“It’s impossible to say,” he managed to stutter.
“It all depends, Elaine.”
Her face clouded ; she abandoned the pretence
of eating and sat forward, her elbows on the table
supporting her chin in her palms. Then after a while
she spoke in low, tense tones as though the words
were being wrung from her lips.
“Bill, how long are they going to let him go on
suffering?”
The man stared fixedly at her, but she avoided
his eyes, staring straight ahead with a trembling,
hysterical note invading her rising voice.
“Can’t they do anything? It isn’t fair —this
terrible sufferihg—and waiting.”
Suddenly she faced him, her fingers tightening
on his arm. “Bill, must we let it go on like this?
’Can’t something be done to help him? To make it
easier? Bill, please!” ' .
He turned pale-under the wildly-beseeching eyes
that held him inexorably, demanding an answer. He
sat tense and rigid in his chair, his thoughts in a
feverish turmoil. He was fhlly aware of what he
had wanted to do all along. It was a hard thing—
an illegal thing in the eyes of the world —but he felt
justified in doing it, and there would be no reproaches
from his own conscience—ever! Then as the resolve
crystallised in his mind the sharp line of the jaw
tightened. One hand slipped across the table and
covered Elaine’s, holding it in a fierce grip for a space
of seconds, while his grim eyes answered hers. Then he
rose abruptly and left her sitting motionless at the table.
Back in his own room he threw himself on the
bed, but tired as he was sleep came only in troubled
snatches that failed to withstand for long the mael
strom of his thoughts.
He smoked cigarette after cigarette. Finally he
rose, haggard eyed and nervy, and made his way to
the bath, where he stood under the shower with the
water pelting refreshingly down on him. But even
that afforded only temporary relief, and sleep was
still impossible."
(To be concluded next week.)


BMMMMBHIiiiHMHHMHI
She is playing a losing game
Her vitality is lowered her health
is undermined by Excess Uric Acid —
Kidney Trouble is taking its toll.
-,-r!wwiw!w.rg».*i.w.' .i ■J',. l-
IKE her, thousands are losing their
health, little suspecting that the
Kidneys are the cause of their trouble.
If the Kidneys, through any cause, are
unable to eliminate and filter certain poison-
ous waste matters which are always forming
in the blood, then a sort of slow poisoning
is set up in the human body.
This poisoning manifests itself in diverse
ways, and is responsible directly and in-
directly for a number of remarkable symp-
toms and ailments, amongst which may be
numbered the following:—
Rheumatism — Stiff and Swollen
Joints —Aching Back (either sharp
and sudden or dull and continuous)
—Sciatica — Lumbago-Nervous Dis-
orders— dull, continual Headache —
Dizziness.
If any of these symptoms or ailments
are noted. Kidney Trouble is present or
indicated.
Perhaps you are beginning to feel the
first symptoms of Kidney Trouble? —then
now —to-day—is the time to begin taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, Gin Pills will
quickly assist the Kidneys to become strong
and healthy, and at the same time act as a
tonic to the whole system.
As soon as you begin to take them,
Gin Pills begin to help the Kidneys
filter impurities from the blood streams, and
dissolve any excess uric acid. They will
bring relief within 24 hours, and will soon
make you feel stronger and in good health
once again.
Gin Pills are perfectly suitable for
anyone to take. They contain no harsh
irritants or harmful ingredients, and their
constituents are such that they cannot help
but do you good.
Have the health that can be yours
by beginning a course of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day.
ShJheldmi
cm pius
27 PILLS IMMENSE SALES 6 ° pills
Indigestion
& Dyspepsia
The terms—-Indigestion and Dyspepsia'—
simply mean illness of the digestive organs,
and apply to a group of symptoms which
accompany every disease of the digestive
system.
TTwa PAT IQp. Overeating, hurried
Ine OMUOL. or irregular eatingv
improperly prepared and unsuitable food,
overwork (mental or physical), irritants
(such as tea, coffee or alcohol) in excess.
The EFFECTS:
originating from a disordered stomach.
Food not digested; constipation; lack of
nutrition; blood impoverished; poisons
absorbed into the system; and other organs
so affected they cannot perform their work.
RPQI If ’T’« System run down;
IDC IXILOkJL,!. brain becomes
tired; muscular system weakened; insomnia;
excessive debility; bad blood; skin
blemished; low vitality: and susceptibility
to serious disease.
The REMEDY:
Sheldon s Digestive Tabules, which digest
what you eat, relieving the inflammation of
the mucous membranes lining the stomach,
protecting the nerves and enabling the
glands to secrete the natural juices of
digestion.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules create a
healthy appetite, and enable the stomach
and digestive organs to transform the
wholesome food that may be eaten into
rich, red blood that makes health, strength,
tissue, brain, brawn and bone.
small
size
1/9
D? SHELDON’S
DIGEST
WHAT YOU EAT
large
size
2/9
PETROL EXPLOSIONS
During the past few months there has been
a number of very serious accident's caused by
using Petrol for cleaning purposes.
The occurrence of these distressing fatalities
is bad enough, but it is a matter for wonderment
that there are not more accidents from the use
of such a highly inflammable liquid as Petrol for
cleaning purposes. There is not only the great
danger from the readiness with which an explosive
mixture, of Petrol and air can be ignited by a
naked light some considerable distance away, but
the additional risk of explosion due to frictional
electricity generated by the vigorous rubbing of
the material to be cleaned.
In place of Petrol, a liquid which is highly
recommended for cleaning purposes is Double “D ’
Eucalyptus. This high-grade Eucalyptus is par-
ticularly suitable for cleaning purposes, and will
not leave the slightest mark or ring behind.
V* Double “D” Eucalyptus is double distilled,
free of impurities, water-white in colour, and has
a sweet, fresh smell. Enormous sales 9d. and
1 /3, Refuse substitutes —accept only the
genuine Double “D” Eucalyptus.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
N
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that L do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
«°V
X
<&'&&&s£ „ ,
«#>'// ...
1 ..n'Vl
o° ■■?>
;.e
a
\' 6
$
o*
;^ s
.-•*■'’»■<<s
0^S e l SftH
S*
..*** o*V* o^Vs*’


I
f
:
Mis
■
MiiiiK c V -.. I
A
o
A
K*
mm;. :
A
111;
X.
IB
a
11
,
*
■
m
. r\‘'- * v \ *!
m «- - ~i
MH *
.
.
Pi
:»
m
k%
&
s: '■ 'Sm
|v
m
l'M
MX
:
■w
VAT
G
i
■
■
VA
Mm
0I 5 t
teisiti;; S 4
*
I, . ,FV
, <»Aj
: :
■;i.m
f‘ t ' > '.. '
:’
T . :
»-■
v
M
5! -
WE AT i
4
A/ y
i
S
X i ■
*’' < ■
Bira I
yilSlxx ii
i iipß
,M
■ H:
IffiiP'H' ‘v
i Hi
:
p
Clear-toned Overseas Broadcasts
with a JaJma Detail-built
Dual-wave All-electric or Battery Receiver
Take a world-cruise whenever you like! Call in at the Paris Opera
House . . . run across and hear what America is doing . . . come
back and drop in on Honolulu. Tired of America? Cross to London,
taking in Japan and the East on the way. Visit Holland, Berlin,
Moscow. Go Continental! Be Cosmopolitan! Tour the world with a
Tasma!
Voyaging by Tasma is LUXURY cruising. No wondering whether you’ll get the
place you want ... no delays ... no interruptions or interferences . . . clear, full-
toned reception ALL THE TIME.
Why fight the ether with an ordinary short-wave receiver when you can enjoy every
thrill that’s on the air (short-wave or broadcast) with a Tasma?
All Tasma Receivers (and ONLY Tasma Receivers) have the amazing Ferro-Coil.
No jittering, no background hiss, no inter-station “clashing.” The transformers are
air-conditioned so that climate and weather make no difference to the perfect Tasma
reception. You get the famous Tasma Bandspread Dial . . . you get every new
development of modern radio science ... in cabinets you’ll be proud to own.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS, TOO.
Whether you live in the city or miles from a power line, you can tour the globe with
a Tasma. SEE them! HEAR them! They make all the world your neighbours!
There is a Tasma All-Wave Receiver at the price YOU want to pay.
Ash your Tasma dealer to show you the complete range.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA: Hartley’s' Pty., Ltd., £7O Flinders
Ltd., 597 Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne.
Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North Ballarat.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Oliver J. Nil sen & Co., Utd.,
49 King William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons, Utd., 674 Hay
Street, Perth; 51 Adelaide Street, Fremantle;
and at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Banbury.
Carlyle & Co., 913-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen Street,
Brisbane, and Branches at Gym pie, Mary-
borough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns
and Maekay.
DA RUING DOWNS: Rosenstengels Pty., Ltd.,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba,
Chas. Birks & Co., Utd., 44 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND; New Zealand General Electric, Ltd,, Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
c /a&nut
DUAL-WAVE RECEIVERS
-f'i
S m
lisi
iPil
w
-. f /mm
W'-mm
i ii
: /#'
j {! . ; ’J>
i
< s 'y^v%]
TASMA MODELS 325 anil 335
In the new anil beautiful
Masefield Cabinet. These six-
valve DUAL-WAVE Deceivers
embody the FERBO-COIL
air-conditioned transformers,
floodlit band spread dial,
velvet tuning drive and con-
tinuously variable tone
control. Heavy duty com-
ponents throughout; noise
suppressor; all vital parts
impregnated against humidity.
I'rice (for Model 325), £37/10/-.
For Model 335, BATTERY
operated, £43/10/- (slightly
higher outside N.S.W.).
No Background Noise
—No “Interference.”
The amazing lack of
background noise is
one of the most strik-
ing features of Tasma
short-wave reception.
You will note particu-
larly how, on the 19-
met're band, Tasma has
overcome the inter-
ference and irregu-
larity which so often
mar the performance
of ordinary receivers.
Experts and amateurs
agree that the Tasma
Model 325 is probably
the most outstanding
short-wave receiver
offering at' the present
time. Before coming
to any decision re-
garding a new set, in-
spect and hear this
truly remarkable
Tasma production—
the Tasma 325—-
Price £37/10/-.
(Slightly higher out-
ride N.S.W.)
n
wm
■C
TASMA MODEL 310 is now
featured in the perfect crafts-
manship of the new Gilbert
Cabinet. This Fire-valve
Dual-wave Receiver is BAT-
TERY operated and is one of
the most effective and attrac-
tive sets produced by Tasma
for rural use. The remark-
ably Tow battery consumption
of the Tasma 310 comes as a
distinct surprise to those ex-
periencing it for the first
time.
Trice, £33/19/6 (slightly higher
outside N.S.W.). If in
Eawrence Cabinet, £35/10/-.
mm
!??
sri!
TASMA MODELS 350 and 365
—hoi li Battery Operated
Dual-Wave Receivers in the
graceful n e w Eawrence
Cabinet. Tasma 330 is a six-
valve receiver; 365 has five
valves. Both receivers feature
Ferro-Coil and every famous
Tasma development. Perfect
world-wide reception for the
country listener.
Prices: Tasma 330, £3l/15/-!
Tasma 365, £29/15/- (slightly
Ijigher outside N.S.W.)
