

5 Is > t v/M
•* ' *"'■? . '»( to V
AUSTRALIA
■SMi
f^-nrn
Nfc
11*
1, J
aggm
Sap®
■
tjS
sis
■
1. Iroustone Quarries —Electric Shovel loading: 30-ton Quarry 'Wagons. 2. Wilputte Coke Ovens—discharge side. 3. Blast
Furnace Plant.. 4. Open Hearth Furnace—Tapping 100-120 ton heat. 5. Plate Mill. 6. Finishing Mill—loading yard.
7. Merchant Mill Stock Yard—Racks containing merchant bars and sections.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited
Mine Owners—Ship Owners—Steel Manufacturers—Colliery Proprietors
Manufacturers of: PIG IKON, INGOTS, BLOOMS, BILLETS, TEE RAILS, FISHPLATES, BRIDGE KAILS, TIE PLATES
PLATES, BEAMS, CHANNELS, ANGLES, ROUNDS, TEES, SQUARES, FLATS, OCTAGONS, ALLOY STEELS, REIN-
FORCING BARS, WIRE RODS, BENZOL, TAR, TOLUOL, SLAG, SOLVENT NAPHTHA, NAPHTHALENE, SULPHATE
OF AMMONIA, FOUNDRY COKE, COAL, HOUSEHOLD COAL AND BUNKER COAL.
Offices: Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London.
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonport (Tas.), Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
li
.
The Bulletin
Soviet “Justice”
Vol. 57.—N0, 2951.
Wednesday, September 2, 1936.
Price 6d.
iiegieiei-ed at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission bv Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMQCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Tamil!
iiiiki
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100■ Ilussell Street, Melbourne.
_ CUT HERE AND MAIL -~
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, os
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..
My Address • •
S.B. 336 . ••
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately. within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees. ,
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts _ must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have-made their decision.
The judges' selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is -52 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. It this should
occur in any year, the amount of. the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
SERIALS
Some publishers
are chary of ac-
cepting a novel
which has already appeared in serial
form, and, when they do, insist on a
change of title. Others, and they are in
the majority, accept them with alacrity,
realising the value of the publicity, which
is considerable, especially with a new
author.
Personal investigations convince me
that serialisation is more beneficial to
book sales than otherwise. Generally
speaking, the majority of serial readers
are not book-buyers. There is also a
large section of the publia who never
read serials. “They -can’t be bothered
with them” ; yet they do not avoid the
journals that publish them. Then there
are the people who do not take a maga-
zine regularly, but who are sufficiently
interested by one instalment of a serial
to buy the book on publication. With
them may be included, the hundreds who
missed an instalment or two and to
satisfy their curiosity either buy the
book or order it from a library. In
France it is a common practice of many
journals to publish one instalment of a
book or play by arrangement with the
publishers. No payment and no serial
rights are involved, each party receiving
mutual benefit by the transaction.
In this country, as a rule, there is a
condition that a novel must not appear
in book form until the last serial instal-
ment has been published, but in recent
years this has been considerably modi-
fied. Book publication may occur when
the serial is only two-thirds under way,
and, probably recognising that serial
readers are not book-buyers, a well-
known Australian journal lately bought
the serial rights of a local novel that was
already on tlie booksellers’ shelves.
From the author’s point of view, serial
publication has distinct advantages.
Apart from the publicity, he gets pay-
ment for the serial rights, according to
his standing and knowledge of the ropes.
At £lO0 —an infrequent sum in Austra-
lia, admittedly-—he has the equivalent
return of standard royalties on 3600
novels at 6s. And not only do few Aus-
tralian novels sell to anything like that
number, but after serialisation that pos-
sibility is still open to the author, the
field of royalties Is still untouched, and
he has a lump sum for serial rights safe,
more or less, in his pocket.
J. J. HARDIE.
A Triers
Comment
As an entrant
in the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize
Com petition, I
should like to
make a few observations, now that the
prize has been awarded.
The winner, Miles Franklin, is to be
warmly congratulated upon her success.
One eagerly looks forward to The Bul-
letin publication of All That Swagger,
for it must doubtless be a fine work to
have emerged successful from such an
imposing array of entries. One also feels,
and hopes, that the simultaneous publi-
cation of the book in England and
America will assist to minimise the
effects of such a thing as the film
“Thoroughbred.”
The judges, too, are to be commended
upon their assiduity. Reading over the
list of entries, one was here tempted to
remark that at least 20 p.c. might safely
have been rejected on titles alone ; and
the conclusion now arrived at is that,
luckily, th'e judges did not reason that
way.
A final observation is this: I fail to see
how a “commended” would prejudicially
influence the reputation of any com-
petitor who contemplates submitting his
book to a publisher. Personally (con-
sidering the number of entries and the
literary standing of the sponsors) I would
feel like having the “commended”
blazoned across the cover.
S. RIBE.
Maugham ,
Galsworthy
Somerset
Maugham had
been to me a bril-
liant craftsman
with a harsh,
definite, vivid
and extremely effective view of life. His
steady production at a high level gave him
a depth of vitality, a value the one-play
man, however good the play, could not
reach. On the other hand, Galsworthy
was a too-kindly, gentlemanly man,
charming, occasionally purposeful in in-
dignation, occasionally literary, but
inherently a man of dated sentiment and
not considerable beside Maugham.
A drama-diet from the library leaves
me convinced that those generalities are
bosh. Maugham’s harsh and definite
view is more corrective than correct, I
think. He has one plot: if you sin you
pay for it, justly or unjustly. There are
a dozen variants, all admirable, nearly
all piquant and moving; but that is the
story for three-quarters of his work. He
says in the preface to the last volume of
the long series. of his. published plays
that the three plays in that, volume are
the only ones that he wanted to write
—they were, written for himself and not
for his audience ; all the others were, in
effect, a job of work to hold his income
and his., position as a popular dramatist.
The plays, “Our Betters,” “For Services
Rendered” and “Sheppey,” were not
meant or expected to be popular ; they
were a luxury that he allowed himself at
the approaching end of his career, the
luxury of speaking the truth as he saw
it. But only “Sheppey” comes out of
the sin-and-punishment tunnel into the
light of day for two acts ; in the third it
hurries back to the values and the effec-
tive scenes, wherein even Death has the
tongue in the cheek, an ironic mocking
attitude.
In this play, if you don’t sin you pay
for it The barber’s assistant who wins
the sweepstake prize, follows the ancient
tenet and gjves away all he has is a
saint. He gives board and lodging to a
thief and a prostitute. He comforts and
relieves wherever he can, gives whenever
he is asked, gives himself nothing. Death
intervenes to prevent his incarceration in
a lunatic asylum. It comes r near to the
harsh bones of the truth, as near as bril-
liant craftsmanship and the ironic atti-
tude will allow. But that 1 makes
Maugham not quite a one-pfay man;
Galsworthy’s is a better way to .arrive
at the flesh-and-blood of the truth: to
be a gentleman not caring a damn about
his audience or himself. He has any
number of plots, from the famous “The
Silver Box,” “Strife” and “Justice” to
the less well-known “Windows,” “A
Family Man,” “A Bit o’ Love”; and he
wanted to write every one of them.
It is this less well-known Galsworthy
who dealt me the blow. Gentleness and
kindness are suspect in art. They so
often slip over the border into the mush
of falsehood, and life is reputedly so
unkind —well, like everyone else who
takes letters seriously, I like it clean and
definite, unmannered. If I can only have
it harsh that way, so be it.
But I needn’t have it harsh. “A Bit
o’ Love” is so kind that I am filled with
gratitude while I read the luminous
words. The dancing children are all
round me; and I grieve with the heart-
broken St. Francis of a parson, with his
bewildered, unfaithful, spellbound wife ;
and I hail the clear, spiritual solution
with relief and gratitude. This is the
flesh-and-blood truth that threw “Jus-
tice” and “The Silver Box” into the
works of the British judiciary and
changed their running.
And “Loyalties”—how is a man to be
a gentleman all round? He is hard-up,
newly-married and desperately in love ;
the father of a discarded mistress is
blackmailing him, threatening exposure ;
he has given (to save its keep) an appar-
ently useless horse to a Jew acquaint-
ance in whose trainer’s hands it has be-
come valuable, won a couple of races,
and been sold for a thumping price; he
sees a chance to steal a thousand from
the Jew, risks his life to do so. He pays
off the mistress’s father with the money,
aqd his desperate love is safe; but the
hue and cry has begun, grown louder, is
at. hand ; he forestalls arrest by suicide.
So sometimes it is impossible for a man
to be loyal to his code all round. You
are bitterly sorry that' this should have
happened to these friends of Gals-
worthy’s creation ; you feel and share
the pity in their creator’s mind, which is
the high art of writing, of the interpreta-
tion of life.
“Windows,” too, is as kind as it is
strict. The daughter of a window-cleaner
has served two years for smothering her
baby. Released, she gets a job as parlor-
maid and, it having been dull in prison,
she kisses the son of the house, a poet
and a rebel It is observed, and there is
the usual rumpus. In the end she has
two alternatives: to stay, or to go out
with the defiant poet and marry him.
She takes neither—too much like prison
again ; besides, “There’s nothing to be
done with a girl like me,” she says, and
is content to go alone. The dialogue is
spare and strict; the author feels his
helplessness—once more there is almost
nothing to be done. But what little there
is can be kind and therefore, perhaps, a
fingerpost.
These are true bits of life, seen clearly,
definitely. They burke nothing, affect
nothing, are concerned, with nothing but
themselves. It is Galsworthy who .is
considerable, and that, I think, for a long
time to come.
HILARY LOFTING
New Temple
“Shakspeare"
Publication of
the “Commen-
tary” volume by
the editor, M, R.
Ridley, M.A.,
completes the New Temple Shakspeare,
and its 40 bright' crimson-cloth bound
midget tomes can now make a gay splash
on a bookshelf, for as long, at any rate,
as such light color may hold out against
fading.
If it does as well in that respect as the
original Temple which it supplants, com-
plaints should, not be heard for 40 years,
at least, and then the blame can be put
on Halley’s comet. For the Old Temple
edition, which, in its dark-red cloth, can
still be built up by a little patient watch-
ing, of second-hand counters in Sydney
shops, remains as good in decently-
treated first issues as when published in
1894-96. Since then it has sold five
million copies, a staggering commentary
on the decadence of literary taste, even
though it’s allowed that a solid propor-
tion of the five million may have gone
to schools.
That Old Temple is, of course, a superb
little library. The early issues done on
clear white deckle-edge paper, a Morris
touch about the heavily-decorated title-
page, red lettering for acts, scenes an
other headings, etched frontispieces
Shakspeare portraits, pictures oi
birthplace, theatres and the like, h era , 1
endpapers with that soundest of all e
scriptive mottoes, Non sans droict, ex
cerpts of Shakspeare praise by rna s?
hands, glossary and notes (at the en ),
the text unencumbered on the clean -
printed page —altogether, the Old Temp
gives the New something to better.
the Old the “Sonnets” is the high-water
mark: save for having the worst frontis-
piece of the lot—a flamboyant version or
Love Triumphant, by Watts —it is hand-
some enough to laugh at most special
Press efforts. The original Dent — his son,
the new Dent, was in Australia a year or
so ago—probably shouted himself an extra
cup of tea or went twice to chapel when
that little book came from the Temple
press in October, ’96. The old Dent, m
his design to have his House responsible
for making Great Literature inexpen-
sively available to Everyman —he’d been
through a hard grind himself, earlier on
—was doubtless as pleased as anybody
with a beard and no taste for wine could
be over the excellence of the Old Temple
Shakspeare altogether.
The New Temple, except in size (it s
slightly smaller), sensibly makes no
attempt to meet the Old on any of the
grounds on which the original Dent and
his editor, Izrael Gollancz, doubtless ad-
mired it. The New wisely shifts ground.
The editor’s aim is:
... .To give to readers, with the least
distraction possible (and thereiore m
modernised spelling, though with a modi-
fied adherence to “Elizabethan” punctua-
tion), the nearest approximation that can
be made, in the light of modern Shaks-
pearean research, to what Shakspeare him-
self actually wrote His. text, therefore, is
conservative, . based upon the earliest re-
liable published version of each play,
whether that be' the First Folio or the
earliest “good” Quarto. A feature of the
edition is the use of special brackets to
indicate, in plays of which there are both
Quarto and Folio versions, such passages
as occur in one or the other only, so that
the reader may read whichever version he
wishes, but not an uncritical conflation of
the two. Conjectural emendations are
most sparingly admitted, and the sole aim
of the notes is to elucidate the meaning
of what Shakspeare wrote, not to distract
the reader with the vagaries of commen-
tators. In brief, the object of the editor. .
of the New Temple Shakspeare is to give'
the maximum of Shakspeare, and the mini-
mum of himself or any other editor.
But there is more to it than bringing
the edition up to date in scholarship:
the New Temple is brought up to date in
its entire character. Designing it, they
probably said the Old was all right for
its time, the flamboyant ’nineties ; too
overloaded for now; a bit .soft for these
times; prune it all back hard to the
wood ; cut out the frontispiece etchings,
elaborate title-page and red ink, and let
Eric Gill decorate ,it slightly with bare
symbolical designs ; just black-and-white,
that’s the lea ; and, for general appear-
ance, let’s have it crisp, bright and just
hard enough to match the spirit of these
’thirties. And on these lines a thoroughly
competent job publisher, editor, printer
and binder have made of it. It’s as
bright, clean and “modern” as steel fur-
niture, and would go well with it.
The editor’s prefaces are of the brief-
est, put down with the crisp sureness of
one who knows what he’s about. His
notes are equally clean and economical,
his “Commentary” volume a sane, sound
piece of concise writing and exact
scholarship. In chronology he follows
Sir Edmund Chambers, though person-
ally he places “The Merry Wives” much
earlier than where Sir Edmund has it
between “Hamlet” and “Troilus and
Cressida.”
Mr. Ridley’s general approach to the
consideration of Shakspeare may be in-
dicated by his dictum that “.... it is a
dramatist’s insight into men and
(I Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
*The Senior Store’
‘While / Live I’ll Grow ’
f
' - • ' ••
ASONS
W
\
m
' ' ' >
,
mt
sat
m
m
f;
Ifir
p
i
pr
m
" m
m
r
n
T* O
■
A*
■■
A
A.—"TREE" BRAND
AIR • TREAD ARCH SHOE
Comfortable summer shoes. Made
of high-grade Tan Willow, Black Box
Calf and Havana Brown. Every
pair has a special cushion tread arch
support and heel cushion. Designed
on good-looking last.
At Anthony Horderns .. . jyE /*»
Seven Important Points of Our High -
Grade AIR-TREAD ARCH SHOES
# 1.-—Of finest leathers, made to fit the foot.
$ 2.—They give new foot health.
$ 3.—They prevent flat foot and build strong
arches.
$ 4.—Keep the feet cool, therefore prevent
perspiration.
$ 5. —They relieve pressure that causes corns
and callouses.
# 6. —They give that cushion feeling.
© 7. —They are exclusive to Anthony Hor-
derns*. ,
B. —" TREE " BRAND SUMMER
GOLF SHOES If it’s summer Golf
Shoes you want, choose these. They're made
for comfort. Smart styles in Black-White and
Tan-White leathers. With non-slip rubber soles.
Full and half sizes.
At Anthony Horderns’ .......
27/6
C "TREE" BRAND GRAINED
LEATHER GOLF SHOES You'll
like these Golf Shoes for their comfort and
smart style. In sturdy grained leather, made on
the “Tree” last. . Bellows tongue prevents dust
and damp. Non-slip rubber soles. Full and
half sizes.
At Anthony Horderns’
30/-
D—"TREE" BRAND AIR-TREAD
BOX CALF BOOTS Fitted with
special - cushion tread, arch support and heel
cushion. In Black Box Calf or Glace Kid. Full
and half sizes available. pm i
In Box Calf. At Anthony Horderns'. . mmi*} I m
In Glace Kid. At' Anthony Horderns’ .'. 29/6
E.—"TREE" BRAND HAND TAIL-
ORED SHOES Correct in . style—one
look tells you that! Made by expert craftsmen
from finest-grade leathers. Ten distinct styles
with welted soles. Full and half j
sizes. At Anthony Horderns’ '. .
9 Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all railway' stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
E
D
HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
f
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


women.... that gives his plays immor-
lality,” which would hardly suggest him
as a suitable editor of Shaw, but quali-
fies, him highly as a readers’ editor on
his present job. One interesting hint he
puts out is that Shakspeare should often
be read fast, which may not have
occurred to many, and is the right cor-
rective to pretty well all school treat-
ment of Shakspeare.
The “Commentary” volume includes
an excellent brief article on Shakspeare’s
language by J. N. Bryson, who advised
on the glossary throughout. The edition
is kept to the Old Temple 40 volumes,
while including the “Commentary,” by
tossing out the ragbag of dubious minor
verses, and so having room for “Venus
and Adonis,” “Lucrecc” and “Phoenix”
in one volume.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
PURSUING his fancy for quaint
titles, Noel Langley, said to be a
South African by name Noel Levy, and
certainly author of one of the prettiest
pieces of light fiction of last year, Cage
Me a Peacock, already in its fifth or sixth
impression, for his second novel casts his
net in the scaly phantasmagoria of Lewis
Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland versical
invitation to the dance and lights
brightly upon There’s a Porpoise Close
Behind Us, a title as allegorical as it is
informative, since the setting is in the
apparently murky waters of contem-
porary London stage life, wherein plunge
an innately decent' pair of young lovers,
bent upon making clean careers for them-
selves, and, instead, finding it, and
especially its denizens, very slimy and
fishy indeed, so that this clean, pretty
pair, personifications of virtue, flutter be-
wilderedly along, like two shining but
harried transmogrified souls out of a
play by Yeats, with, menacingly close
behind them, the porpoise—to give “pur-
pose” its American pronunciation—of
Evil itself, masquerading mostly in the
guise of young men commonly desig-
nated by a dissyllabic borrowing from
horticultural nomenclature, and their
feminine counterparts, distant observers
of rites widely reputed to have enjoyed
early popularity on that ancient isle
where Sappho sang and
“Speaking of singing,” interrupted the
devil at my elbow quietly, “your lyric
lines in laudation of Langley, or Levy,
passed the bathroom-class fen commas *
ago. I suggest you pull out the plug
and let us have a clear look at this
plunging porpoise.
“Ah; as I thought,” he added more
cheerfully. “The allegory looks like tak-
ing a sudden twist from your, if I may
say so, rather Bellerivian version. That
trembling bubble you’ve just seen pass
down the plughole is our friend Lang-
ley. You behold what the porpoise is?”
The monster conjured up by this
black magic might best be described as
an unwieldy jelly, muddy in character,
unpleasant in odor and uncertain in
movement. Its low forehead corrugated
in puzzled wrinkles, rheumy eyes popped
out as if straining to see as much more
as possible than there was to be seen,
clammy tentacles clutching forth to smear
everything within reach, it writhed along
as if in blundering pursuit of the van-
ished bubble. As I gazed at this mon-
strous sight a dirty point of light traced
out on its ugly side the puzzling word
Rosnec. It wrote the curious word back-
wards.
At last the shocking thing passed some-
how through the plughole, and I turned
to find the devil at my elbow grinning
broadly.
“Well?” I urged.
“A little legerdemain,” he explained
breezily. “The meaning of the allegory
as I expect it to be enacted.”
“You mean,” I exclaimed, horrified,
“that this dreadful thing Rosnec is close
behind Mr. Langley, and may overtake
him, smother him with its smear?”
“I mean exactly that.”
“But why, how?” I insisted.
“Why?” he repeated airily. “Oh, just
because somebody with a mind in that
condition will find our Langley indecent
and make a noise about it.”
“What you’re suggesting,” I inter-
rupted impatiently, “is that Mr. Langley
may be banned by a Censor. Surely
that’s too fantastic! Consider what Mr.
Langley’s book does. It exposes a
hideous growth in the body of English
life. Under his disguise of flippancy, Mr.
Langley says, as plainly as it eaiTbe"§aidr
that that for which Sodom and Gomorrah
perished is as horribly present in English
life. That’s the purpose close behind Mr.
Langley’s bantering tale, and a deadly
serious purpose it is, too. for all that the
book’s a Swiftian ripple of laughter from
start to finish. And you suggest a possi-
bility of stupidity colossal enough to con-
sider banning it! The only immorality
to be considered about any book of its
kind is the immorality that banning it
would be. On that count the Censor, or
Rosnec, or whatever could do anything
like that, would exist as an encourage-
ment for the cancerous things in the body
of society. Why, the Censor’s purpose
is the very opposite!”
“Oh, yeah,” remarked the devil at my
elbow in the more insinuating intonation
of that vulgar expression.
CVF course I knew that if the foregoing
discussion were set down as, say, a
review of Mr. Langley’s lively book, it
would give an entirely false impression.
Therefore I shall refrain from using it.
Instead, I shall just comment briefly that
there are moments when a book reviewer
feels gloriously happy, seeing a new
literary planet swim into his den —and
knowing it to be a planet. Mr. Langley
is writing as well as Aldous Huxley wrote
at the same stage of his career, though,
perhaps, with a shade more humanity
than Mr. Huxley ever quite owned. The
first novel, Cage Me a Peacock, has
something in its nature in common with
Antic Hay, without the Huxley acid. The
new Langley is more mature ; the humor
has taken on a fuller note, and the
characters grow closer to human beings
than those of the earlier book. Above
everything, it is gusty with laughter that
rises continuously above its serious under-
tone —
“I know, I know,” interrupted the devil
at my elbow. “But our
Langley’s really a ser-
moniser of the deepest
dye. He pretends to be
flippant, but his porpoise
is to have London’s teem-
ing tiddlers as pure as
his precious hero and
heroine. Sool him,
Rosnec! . . . Of course,” he added
snappily, “Rosnec sooled that other cove
you have there. Caught him, too.”
“You refer,” I said, “to Wallace Smith,
who entitles his new novel The Happy
Alienist. I recall that Mr. Smith’s Bessie
Cotter did fall victim to the Censor, and
the publisher was stiffly fined, too, if I
remember rightly. You approve, I sup-
pose.”
.. “Certainly I approve,” he said emphati-
cally. “The book made the lives of
street-women coarse, sordid and repul-
sive.”
“Well, anyway,” I said hurriedly,
“there’s scarcely occasion to sool your
Rosnec on Mr. Smith’s latest work.”
“Some bits in it,” he said thoughtfully,
“might serve. Rosnec doesn’t need ex-
travagant provocation.”
“But,” I retorted, “this is merely a
rather original sort of murder-mystery
story, set in Vienna, with its main char-
acter a professor of psycho-analysis who
rings up the police in the first pages to
confess having just murdered his wife,
her paramour and then his mistress.
Mystery addicts mightn’t like it, unless
they’re ones with a highly developed
sense of humor, because it burlesques
their particular form of intellectual
recreation. Still, that side of it has the
rare merit of completely surprising
originality.”
“In fact,” said devil at elbow genially,
“our Wallace Smith begins to look like
another Edgar Wallace in the making.
Most interesting example of the in-
sidious effect of Rosnec bite. Our Smith,
if Rosnec hadn’t savaged him over that
earlier book, would never have written
this one. He’d have gone on facing up
to things as they are and trying to so
depict them —in other words, exposing
some of my special preserves. Bitten
once by Rosnec, he writes like many of
your own Australian writers, who are,
of course, kept in a perpetual dither by
their sensible fear of Rosnec. The result,
in our Smith’s case, is a writer completely
off his balance, if you see what I mean.
It’s really a mocking sort of book, as if
life, when Mr. Smith looked at it, gave
him a nasty grimace and he had to give
one back. Savaged by Rosnec, he’s
bolted for some sort of an escape, and
found it, as life’s escapologists do, in fan-
tasy.”
“Nevertheless,” I insisted, “Mr. Smith
is innately honest enough to have made
something of the character of the pro-
fessor before he’s through. And you
can’t deny..he’s even funnier .than Mr.
‘Langley A4soi~iCs~'good : even
as a mystery yarn—a thoroughly original
idea and capital entertainment.
“In any case,” I added emphatically, “I
think your Rosnec a disgusting creature. ’
“You’re telling me!” said d. at e.
proudly. “I train him.”
C. M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
There's a Porpoise Close Behind Us:
Noel Langley (Arthur Barker. Ltd. ;
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.). Uproari-
ous piece of fun or a trenchant exposure
of moral degeneracy —just as you prefer
to take it. See Satchel.
The Happy Alienist: Wallace Smith
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Something vastly
different in mystery yarns; a sort ot:
mockery of the genre, but still having a
most original plot and impudent humor.
See Satchel.
The Son of Grief: Dudley Carew
(Arthur Barker; 7s. 6d.): Yarn about an
Eton-Oxford product who, soured by an
unfortunate marriage, became a cricket
“pro.” and took to drink. Various
women attempt to seduce him, some with
more success than others. Heroine is
addicted to brandy. End is dismal.
Fire Over England: A. E. W. Mason
(Hodder and Stoughton ; 7s. 6d. ; from
Dymock’s). Time, the reign of Good
Queen Bess ; hero young Robin Aubrey,
sent by Walsingham to be a spy in Spain
to gather information about the Armada.
In Madrid Robin finds his father, victim
of the Inquisition. The Babuigton Con-
spiracy has a place, and in the tutor
Stafford Mr. Mason has created a figure
nastier than Uriah Heep. A fast-moving,
well-knit yarn.
NEW TEMPLE SHAKSPEARE . . .
William Shakspeare, a Commentary .
M. R. Ridley (Dent). Rounds off the
bright little edition in 40 pocket vols.,
selling here at 3s. a vol. See extended
notice, p. 2.
TRAVEL . . .
Tankard Travels: Gordon Beckles
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d. net). Jour-
nalist sketches of knocking about Eng-
land, Ireland and Wales. Has humor
bright light entertainment. Most interest-
ing item: that 90 per cent of the British
applicants for fighting posts under Haile
Silassie came from the Irish Free State!
GENERAL . . .
You and the Universe : Paul Karlson
(Allen and Unwin ; 12s. 6d. net). Popu-
lar science which should be very popular.
It’s “modern physics for everybody” Herr
Karlson serves up. Humorous, breezy,
incredibly entertaining.
Contract Bridge, the Australian
Pachabo System : William Noall (Robert-
son and Mullens; 3s. 6d). In bridge
one may receive any one of
635,013,559,600 hands, mostly rotten.
Assessing the value is a problem. Mr.
Noall’s system takes into account only
aces, kings and queens. You count
quick tricks and losing tricks. Losing
tricks are the As., Ks., Qs. you don’t hold.
No losing tricks are counted for a’miss-
ing suit or a singleton ace ;. two for a
doublefon, unless A., K.; one if A., x.
A Q. is counted a losing trick unless
there’s the A. to cover it, or-it’s in a
sequence of K., Q., J. or Q., J., 10. That’s i
the essence of the losing-tricks count.
Its application takes even the terse Mr.
Noairinto 62 pages. Seems a very sound
basis for bidding.
The Story of San Michele : illustrated
edition ; Axel Munthe (Murray). Sells
here in cloth, 21s. ; in cream buckram,
28s. 6d. —this a choice piece of firie
bookmaking. Illustrations include fron-
tispiece drawing of Munthe and photo-
graphs of the story’s creature-characters
and scenes. New preface records author’s
surprise at his book having become a
Best Seller in 25 tongues, a performance
which seems only to have engendered in
him increased pessimism.
What of Australia’s Future? : Joseph
Hamiet (Angus and Robertson ; 3s. 6d.).
In his unique literary style, in which the
American idiom is interlaced with flowery
classical illusions, Mr. Hamlet surveys
Australia’s institutions and social prob-
lems and finds the latter insoluble unless
the former are overturned. He would
scrap Protection and the White Aus-
tralia policy, abolish industrial arbitra-
tion and the jury system and abandon
Canberra. His notion of good govern-
ment seems to be a dictatorship under
which political opinions other than his
own would be ruthlessly stamped out
and only one party (his party, whatever
it is) permitted to function. These views
are garnished with some beautiful senti-
_men ts. about, dem.oc racy and the ..sovereign
freedom• 'oTYKe Individual.' ~ ~~
Various Verse
The Ascendant Sponge.
And we have walked in the long-remembering
dusk.
“Pax vobiscunT’ saying, .
Where leaves drip and little runnels play
And the great guns are baying,. , ,
And we are filled with a resolve ineffectual ai
vast, ,
But deep and comforting the crackling nus
Is broken, the trammels cast .
And the padding wolves of dread seek o
prey.
Here we repent, ..
For we are filled with resolve to renounce ,
aims
That shall disturb content.
Come home, you wandering friars
Whose stealthy sandals tap the cobblestones
That lead into the realms of banishment.
Turn home and be content .
To Jay, our bones beside our fathers bones.
We who would save men's bodies from tnc
flames . .
Can but come famished home bleeding witn
briars....
Come home, my wandering friars. ,
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
The Faces.
At night, in the empty street.
Where light and shadow meet
And blend,
Seemingly without end,
1 have seen the faces
Bereft of the beauty of day,
Empty of sunlight’s passions and graces,
Pallid as clay.
And I have remembered then
Looks that lingered on
After words sounded; when
The sound and meaning of words were gone.
Eyes that knew no economy in the sun,
When the night has begun
Grow close and mean;
Faces the sun has seen
Moved to express pleasantness and delight,
In the dead, forced radiance of night
Are still and strange—
Surely too strangely uninspired to keep
Even the inevitable tryst with sleep.
Shadows pass over them
But not cover them,
And if, as it sometimes seems,
They hang upon the edge of speech,
I think their words, like the mad talk ot
dreams,
Would curse, or beseech,
Pleading with beauty as a lover pleads.
They would cry out because they need not
Solitude, nor silence, nor thought —
All that those wish they needed
Who need naught . . .
Through the streets unheeded
They go at night.
The silence follows them.
The shadow swallows them.
N.S.W.
M.
The Young Girls.
A coolness upon the coldness of the wind.
And through the dusk a pale-gold smell of
buds;
Lethal and lithe the white Spring crouches
near,
And yearning are the fields and dark-green
woods.
And the young girls, desirous of the night
When moonfire pulses white in their green
veins,
Arc pierced with restlessness, and arm-in-arm
Wander along the heifer-quief lanes
Through mist’s blue witchery to deep brown
hollows
That blossom with the roses of their sighs.
White ardors warm their dusk-drunk heavy
limbs,
White pangs make ice their bosoms; and
their eyes,
Spellbound upon the pale-green star of women,
Mirror in tears a darker star’s green jade,
The lake deep, deep within them, whose smooth
curve
With the white whips of moonlight will be
flayed.
And now, remembering one as deep and
strange
Ere our white passion smouldered to eclipse,
My moon-sired limbs remembering one so
strange
Her name was a wet pebble on my lips,
I see the moonward feet, moon-hungry limbs,
Daughters of silence, locking in the lake;
Amongst'the fields, the crowds, see green eyes
yearning
For white unearthly radiances to break;
I see amongst the fields and dark-green trees
And in the crowds and in the clanging places
The sons of moonlight, white, with dream-wild
eyes,
And water on their dazzling haunted faces.
Deeper than forests, deeper than rocks and
caverns,
Deeper than emeralds dark in the cold earth,
The lake they ache for lies, the wild green
milk
For which the moon-fleshed hunger from their
birth.
And lethal and lithe now white Spring crouches
near,
Like the white moon-limbed, taut in wait for
truth;
And the young girls, all glimmering with their
wonder,
Rove the sweet pangs and ardors of their
youth
By lake and mist-path and the deep brown
hollows,
While white with love the small birds burn
and fume,
And. like a whorl of moonlight, thrilling them.
Nods-in- the dusk a,silver toi-toi plume
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


SV/2
*
N.
0
//
//
LIU
vm
IA/W
£5
O
c ft
Calling at Auckland and Wellington
via Brisbane and allowing time for
the Overland Trip or Special Day
Excursion to Rotorua, the Thermal
Districts, Waitomo Caves and local
sight-seeing.
R.M.S. STRATHNAVER
leaves Sydney
NOVEMBER 13th
FIRST SALOON AND TOURIST CLASS:
Fares from
20 and 13 guineas respectively,
free of exchange.
PLEASURE CRUISES
ALL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO LOCAL P. &■ O. AGENTS


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
f
SL.
«#$ ->
■
fcL\
-V
iiFTffi
m
It
!? * - : Wk^
S&XJ 1 '- :; 8 < ;i «. *8 ’ ter*
M'::lil»(«lli I *5*11 -* >\.* JT . '4'
O 8" | ' »* j 1 »* .« w „
jfsBp* A «,*’--/ - & ,„ ~ ® 4 ' 4
* , 1 . * •' • . < * «.
* . €;: .: f ■ $ I. I |
♦ jfc &:• - jj& 1> ' £ Jv
. | | * S ■ : * I «*»< * ■ .
fe «fpjj « t 1 i t
uH myKsMwm , .&*■■■: .. . & & ' & .... /.r> s
«&*»
" " -
**
mm
m
m * * • 4
gy&ttj§ii§£fe£ s&' &
-■ ■- v:
■' •
i
,,, •"
i\ * J?/ SsfliBL.* S*V * -**' t"* >.' *
M
H
'•!; : ', 4':: ■ ]:■■ .•■••• .
* •
4 ■
ifif
i #«
Aerial View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
vms


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2951.
September 2, 1936.
THE UNCHANGING CANNIBAL.
"he Revolution, like Saturn, i, devouring it. children.”— Vergniaud, the 1793 regicide, after he was condemned at a counterpart of the Zinovier "trial."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
V ictoria : 'Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. 11. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.47
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
SOVIET "JUSTICE."
The horrified gaze of English-speaking people, who
have been receiving further dreadful—though, happily
for them, distant—evidence of what Red ascendancy
in a country means, was withdrawn last week from
Madrid to Moscow. There, towards the end of the
nineteenth year of what Bishop Burgmann calls
“Russia’s mighty experiment for the future of the
world,” Zinoviev, Kamenev and 14 other “comrades”
were “tried” and shot in a batch for having
“plotted to kill Stalin,” their associate in 1917 and
afterwards. In effect, the Revolution devoured 16
more of its children, and it is certain that they are
not the last of the litter for whom the same fate is
reserved.
The “trial” had features which the case of
the Vickers engineers made repulsively familiar, but
on this occasion there was no powerful “capitalistic”
Government to intervene to the extent of securing
counsel and saving heads. So there was no counsel
for the defence. Neither, of course, was there
any suspension of comment in Government news-
papers, which, having no fear of being cited for con-
tempt of Court, preceded and accompanied the trial
with ferocious demands for blood.
Accused were described by the Attorney-General,
one Vishinsky, as “a murderous, despicable band of
mad Fascist dogs, the scum of the underworld.” The
evidence against them seems to have consisted mainly
of confessions written in their cells —drawn from
them perhaps by torture, perhaps by the hope that
confessions would soothe savage breasts, perhaps by the
deliberate preference of death to lingering confinement
in Soviet prisons. Some of the confessions were
repeated from the dock, and the London “Daily Tele-
graph’s” reporter described the spectacle as “one of
the most degrading ever witnessed.”
All but two, Smirnov and Holsman, virtually begged
to be shot. Some, including Kamenev, actually
’ thanked Stalin for his magnanimity in not having them
shot earlier.
Kamenev asserted that Trotsky’s part in the con-
spiracy was greater than his own. Trotsky, now an
exile in Norway, denies that there was a conspiracy,
and pronounces the trial “the greatest fake in history.”
Still, it seems clear that if he and his set had triumphed
they would have shown no more mercy to the Stalin-
ists than the Stalinists have shown to the Trotskyists—
their leader excepted, since, for the moment, he is
beyond their reach.
Found guilty and sentenced to be shot, the
prisoners were allowed 72 hours in which to appeal.
The appeal was to Stalin, and at the end of the 72
hours they had become food for worms. While the
battue was being arranged, Soviet police were hunting
for Tomsky, whose revolutionary exhortations to British
and Australian trade-unionists achieved some notoriety
a few years ago. Tomsky died by his own hand.
It is a revolting story, but no aspect of it is really
surprising. It was plain long ago to all but fanatics,
noodles and some bishops that the controllers of
“Russia’s mighty experiment for the future of the
world” had not mastered the first principles of justice,
as justice is understood in English-speaking countries.
It is equally plain to anyone who studies history with
an open mind that envy and vanity make social
revolutions, and that in all such revolutions there are
stages at which ruffians who united to exterminate
defenders of the institutions they have smashed divide
and destroy one another.
Revolutionary leaders—Marats, Camilles and
Robespierres, Lenins, Trotskys and Stalins—are
accepted as supermen, partly because their revolutions
do not immediately collapse—actually they shove the
real work on quite obscure persons interested in
nothing but doing a good job for their country. Alivi
and dead, they are extolled by romantic writers ; but
they are rarely men of action or men of outstanding
ability. Always they bring desolation to the countries
infested with them, and always they end by stirring
up an invincible hostility to them among stronger
natures at home or abroad, or both.
Fear inspired the slaughter of the Trotskyists.
Fear inspired also the military measure which imme-
diately preceded it: the calling up of two new classes
of Russian conscripts. Germany has retaliated by
extending the period of conscript service from twelve
months to two years. With the Bolshevist Govern-
ment obviously scared of the Germans, and the Nazi
Government openly contemptuous of the Russians —
and doubtless convinced that Trotsky, for once at
least, is not lying when he asserts that there is in
Russia “colossal tension which may develop into mass
struggles”—it will be difficult to prevent the war for
which both countries are preparing. John Bull, for his
own sake as well as the sake of a distracted world,
will try to prevent it. If he fails it will be no business
of his to side with the ruthless enemy of 20 years ago
or with the faithless ally.
"Pedetes Coffer."
South Africa is the habitat of a rodent known to
scientists as Pedetes coffer, and to ordinary people
as the jumping hare. It has a body like that of the
hare. Its hindquarters resemble those of the kangaroo.
It is armed with great claws, and its leaping powers
are extraordinary. It makes raids upon fields and
farms, with unhappy results for the owners.
But the leaping and raiding powers of the South
African jumping hare are far inferior to those of
Australian taxing authorities. In quarter of a century
taxation in this country advanced literally by leaps
and bounds. And in the last recorded year the raids
yielded £95.2 millions compared with £15.6 millions
quarter of a century ago.
The population of Australia doubled itself in 66
years—lB69 to 1935.
Tax-revenue was doubled in 16 years, quadrupled
in 20 years ; in 1935 it was six times as great as in 1910.
And the increase in lax-revenue is an imperfect reflec-
tion of the increase in tax-rates, for the highest yields
were obtained in years when the national income was
below normal.
Had the population grown in the last quarter-
century as fast as tax-revenue grew the continent
would now be occupied by about 26f million people.
Had the flocks increased in correspondence with tax-
revenue, last year’s wool clip, allowing a mean
price of 14d. a pound and an average fleece of eight
pounds, would have been worth £250,000,000.
Had the herds so increased the number of cattle
in this country would have been greater than in the
three countries which are Australia’s principal rivals
at Smithfield: Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay.
Fancy figures? Exercises in arithmetic? Not at
all! Rather these are important facts. A very consider-
able modification of them, indeed, would still illustrate
the painful truth that the' developmental contest
between taxation and capacity is terribly unequal.
Even defenders of high taxation —if there are
such—must admit that the real test is not so much
what is taken as what is left. The man in the street
may know a good deal less about the volume and
severity of taxation than he ought to know, but he
is fully aware that the financial strength of a nation
is to be measured by its income, and he must know
that taxation is a toll upon industry.
In the ten years to June, 1935, the population of
Australia increased by 824,377. Tax-revenue went up
£19,362,240. Population rose 14 p.c.; tax-revenue
25-jr p.c., equal to £23 9s. 9d. per additional inhabitant.
Value of exports declined by £48.3 millions.
In 1924-25 tax-revenue was equal to 93 p.c. of
the value of the wool clip. In 1934-35 it amounted
to 227 p.c. of the value of the wool clip.
In the three years to June 30, 1935, population
increase was 149,882, tax-revenue increase £8,481,674.
Population up a shade over 2 p.c.; tax-revenue up
nearly 10 p.c. Divide the number of new Australians
into the additional taxation and you get almost exactly
£56 12s. 6d. per head.
Again the opinion is offered that the phenomenal
leaping powers of Pedetes coffer are dwarfed by those
of taxation in Australia.
Now take the official records for the last 12 years
showing gross value of industrial production and tax-
revenue collected by the seven Governments, and
separate the period into two equal parts:: —
Year to Value of Government
June 30. Production. Taxation. Remainder.
(All expressed in £ millions.)
1924 400.3 71.3 329.0
1925 .. .. .. 454.6 75.8 378.8
1926 431.7 80.0 351.7
1927 447.4 88.5 358.9
1928 452.9 88.9 364.0
1929 447.8 88.9 358.9
Totals .. .. 2,634.7 493.4 2,141.3
Yearly average 439.1 88.2 356.9
1930 389.5 92.1 297.4
1931 319.7 86.3 233.4
1932 305.0 86.7 218.3
1933 318.2 93.5 224.7
1934 354.9 90.8 264.1
1935 349.0 95.2 253.8
Totals .. .. 2,036.3 544.6 1,491.7
Yearly average 339.4 90.8 248.6
Comparing the second period with the first, the
following changes are recorded:
£ Millions.
Value of production decreased by .. .. 598.4
Taxation increased by 51.2
Total loss to population 649.6
Movements Expressed by Index Numbers.
1924-29. 1930-35.
Value of production 100 77
Taxation 100 110
Remainder 100 70
Had the value of production been maintained
in the second six years, the additional taxation would
have been serious, but it was specially burdensome
because of reduced capacity to. contribute.
State Governments have been the worst offenders.
At Adelaide the Prime Minister met their impudent
demand for vaster Commonwealth grants—to be
expended, as well as raised, without a shred of respon-
sibility on their part —or, in the alternative, the
privilege of levying still more taxes with the simple
statement that their tax-revenue had gro\yn
£4 os. 2d. per inhabitant in 192040 £7 10s. Id. in 1935,
and that of the Commonwealth from £6 12s. Bd. to
£6 14s. 2d.
“In the face of possible national emergency,
Mr. Lyons said, “the Commonwealth cannot afford
to vacate permanently any field of taxation.” The
Bulletin, while supporting his refusal to let taxation
drift still further into chaos, is of opinion that the
Commonwealth could afford to let the States have
exclusive right to tax their own lands. But this sur-
render should be conditional on the States transfer-
ring income taxation to the Commonwealth, the
national authority taking over education control as
well —in 1933-34 State expenditure amounted to
£9,321,662, whereas “ordinary” State income taxes
yielded £8,771,798. The national Government has
promised tax-cuts in its Budget, but it can give tax-
payers no guarantee that provincial spendthrifts and
narks will not deprive them of the benefit. Only
through Commonwealth action on the lines indicated
—and Mr. Lyons's Government is in a position to
force the issue—can the nation be given substantial
and lasting relief from burdens and worries which are
far greater than it should be called upon to bear.
A Victorian "Crisis."
The Dunstan Government has a “crisis” on its hands ;
and Labor-leader Tunnecliffe, whose parly is keeping
it in office, darkly suggests that there will be a general
election in October “unless the Legislative Council
sees the error of its ways.”
On July 1, Dr. Harris, who leads for the Govern-
ment in the Council, introduced a bill providing for
redistribution of Council seals, substitution of preferen-
tial voting, with grouping of candidates, for the first-
past-the-post system, and dissolution. The rule at
present is that “one member for each of the 17
provinces retires every third year, except in the case
of a dissolution, when one-half of the newly-elected
members hold their seats for three years only.” The
Government proposes instead a dissolution (of one
House only) in May, 1937, and an election on the
basis of new boundaries, the first member elected
for a province to hold office for six years and the
second for three years; if both are returned un-
opposed, “periods of membership to be determined
by lot.”
Redistribution of seats is needed, for six metro-
politan provinces with 12 members contain 248,754
electors, whereas 11 country provinces with 22
members contain only 224,986 electors. Preferen-
tial voting is also desirable (though the variety
employed at Senate elections is scarcely deserving of
imitation); and household suffrage, without frills,
together with disqualification of electors who deliber-
ately neglect to exercise the franchise, would have
made the measure more palatable to the public, if
not to the politicians. But the Government’s main
idea of “reform” is to give 55 country electors as
much representation as 100 metropolitan electors. It
proposes 14 metropolitan and 20 country members,
quotas being 38,000 for metropolitan provinces and
21,000 for country provinces.
The other gentlemen present listened politely to
the doctor’s exposition of the bill ; then, disregarding
his plea that haste was necessary, they adjourned the
debate for three weeks. When the three weeks were
up, they agreed to there being 20 country and 14
metropolitan members (members of Mr. Tunnecliffe's
party vainly protested), but carried a series of amend-
ments. One was to the effect that the Redistribution
Commissioners should assign sitting members to the
altered provinces, so that they would all complete the
terms for which they were elected instead of having
to go to the country next year.
“It’s a gluepot amendment,” said Chief Secretary
Bailey hotly when he had to submit it to the Legis-
lative Assembly. “The idea is to glue half of the
members of ‘another place’ to their seats for a further
term of three years.” Somebody interjected that there
was a precedent for it in Victorian history. The
Minister admitted it, adding bitterly that it was the
kind of precedent that would naturally occur to
the framer of the amendment, H. J. Cohen, who is
a lawyer. He was more effective when he pointed
out that, since the bill abolished a country division
and created a metropolitan one, “two country mem-
bers would have to be assigned to a metropolitan
province.”
Ex-Premier Argyle spoke up for the Council
majority, saying that 17 members had been elected in
1934 for six years. But he did not press the matter
to a division, and the bill was sent back to the Council,
with the demand for a dissolution emphasised in a
new paragraph.
On the appointed day the Legislative Council shall
be dissolved, and all the members... .shall retire, and
thereupon a general election shall be held.
The Council decided that adding paragraphs was
a game that two Houses could play at, so it consigned
the measure to the Assembly again with these words
inserted: —
Provided further that the redivision shall not affect
those members who shall be due to retire in 1940, but
each such member shall be entitled to sit and vote as
though this Act had not been passed.
There the “crisis” rests. It is unlikely to result
in an October election, but if it does it will be grand
to hear Mr. Tunnecliffe thundering in the name of
democracy that a city vote should have 55 p.c. of the
value of a country vote. Such a spectacle, added to
the paltry exhibition that each House is now giving,
would drive many Victorians into the ranks of those
who realise that State politics, as now conducted,
have become small beer, and hopelessly flat at
that, and that the necessities of Australia demand
a great transfer of powers to the Commonwealth,
leaving local self-government to be attended to by
much smaller Cabinets and one-Chamber Parliaments,
members to be paid for attendances only.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Let It Be Settled!
Melbourne “Age,” in an elaborate attempt to justify
the trade war with Japan, published the following
on August 19:
Last year Japanese exports to the amount of
£8 000,000 entered this country. Japan’s imports from
Australia totalled £12,000,000.
The actual figures were issued at at the
week-end. They were not detailed in the “Age,
which contented itself with stating that Australia had
“a trade balance of about £8,000,000 sterling. ’ The
“Argus” gave the figures:
Exports to Japan reached £17,650,000 Australian
or £14,000,000 sterling. Imports from Japan during
the year were £5,960,000 sterling. Total Australian
purchases by Japan in 1935-36 were £5,500,000 Aus-
tralian greater than in 1934-35, while Australian imports
from Japan increased by £1,300,000 sterling.
This plain statement does not support the story
that Canberra had to take action against Japanese
imports or it would have been all up with British
exports to Australia and Australian production of
factory goods. Also it throws doubt on the value of
the “confidential” information with which the Govern-
ment secured the acquiescence of woolgrowers’ repre-
sentatives in its hush-hush policy. As to that, a
Westralian delegate to the Woolgrowers’ Council men-
tioned to the P.P.A. conference in Perth that “from
a quarter-past two till five o’clock one afternoon the
Prime Minister was occupied in placing information
before us.” The “information” was withheld from
Parliament. Parliament will have a great deal to
say about this denial when it gets the chance.
While the first of the new season’s wool sales
was being held in Sydney, the Minister for No Trade
Treaties and the Japanese Consul-General were dis-
cussing the unhappy dispute at Canberra. This raised
hopes of'a settlement, and no absurd parade of con-
sistency or exhibition of pique should stand in the
way. It is necessary to the great cause of peace in
the Pacific that Australia and Japan should be friends.
If they cease to trade with one another they will drift
into enmity.
So Much for Pre-selection!
The U.A.P. machine got a dreadful showing-up in
the Assembly by-election for Vaucluse (N.S.W.). Last
year, with its bob-a-nob variety of pre-selection, it
succeeded in making a gift of the Gordon seat to a
gentleman unknown in the political world, who soon
set out for Britain on private business. This was
remembered in Vaucluse when a vacancy fell due
there and an impudent attempt was made to force
the unopposed election of another political tyro.
The familiar farce of a pre-selection ballot was
staged, and a son of the late member, W. F. Foster,
was proclaimed the winner. There were several candi-
dates ; Mr. Foster got 508 primary votes out of 1348
given in—there are 21,000 electors. According to U.A.P.
practice and belief, nothing remained but formalities,
nomination ; declaration of the machine s nominee as
the member ; congratulations all round.
But Murray Robson, a son and grandson of N. S.
Wales members, threw his hat into the ring. He said
he was U.A.P. and Vaucluse was U.A.P. also, but
he would be no party to letting 508 or even 1348
persons decide for 21,000 who their member should be.
The young man was, of course, denounced as an
intruder and an impostor. “He a U.A.P. man!”
it was said at U.A.P. headquarters and the local
office. “He can’t be, for he is ‘opposing the selected
candidate.’ The U.A.P. casts him out. Electors of
Vaucluse, complete the job!”
Vaucluse had other views. There are six sub-
divisions, and “the selected candidate,” though quite
a worthy person, was well beaten in every one. With
only a handful of ballot-papers to be counted, he had
a mere 6296 votes to Murray Robson’s 10,544.
Vaucluse contains Wentworth’s old home and
mausoleum, so it is an appropriate setting for a whole-
some political revolution. The establishment of the
preferential-voting system, with the provision that no
vote should be valid unless preferences were exercised,
removed the case for pre-selection, but it has
remained because it is necessary to the exorbitant
power of the machines. Crawlers also prefer it, be-
cause they could not get into Parliament otherwise,
and interests that want a particular man in the Legis-
lature find it convenient; but the general results have
been saddening. Among the pre-selected members
on both sides of the State House there is very poor
material. In the Commonwealth Parliament also
N. S. Wales has never been so flabbily represented.
The flower (or cauliflower) of the U.A.P. variety
of pre-selection is Mr. Parkhill.
"Are We Insane?"
Philip Goldfinch, of the C.S.R., who set out for
Europe on C.S.R. business two or three months after
he had been elected unopposed for the Gordon
(N.S.W.) Assembly seat, mentioned in a recent U.A.P.
lecture that he visited 15 countries. Then he put
a question to his audience.
“Are we insane that we do not encourage every
Britisher we can get to come and settle in this country?”
We should be insane if we went back to the
kind of “encouragement” that resulted in the West-
ralian group settlements (estimated losses, £6,000,000)
and in the farm scheme for which Victoria had to
compensate the sandwichmen who have been hanging
round Australia House—it’s a wonder Mr. Goldfinch
didn’t see them. New methods are necessary—dis-
crimination in the choice of immigrants and provision
of suitable jobs.
Why doesn’t the C.S.R. do something in that line?
Unquestionably it has the capacity, since in three years
it has declared profits amounting to £2.833,430
(£963,501 in 1934, £931,949 in 1935 and £937,980 m
1936), and that on capital which consists largely of
bonus shares.
Mr. Goldfinch is one of the U.A.P. Assemblymen
who have been girding at their financially embarrassed
Government for not providing more pick-and-shovel
and wheelbarrow jobs for the unemployed—on
melancholy projects like “Olympic swimming pools”
and railways that will be born bankrupt. He would
be better occupied in inducing the immensely wealthy
concern of which he is general manager to relieve
the Government of some of the burden.
Federal-aid Roads and Petrol Tax.
The Premiers’ Conference was the usual washout.
Three days were given over to “no-decision” argu-
ments ; on the fourth day, perhaps in the desperate
hope of demonstrating that out of nothing something
could come, the Prime Minister promised a ten years
extension of the Federal-akLroads agreement, with a
20 p.c. increase in the Commonwealth grant.
The additional money could be well spent on
roads in remote districts which have been ncglecteo,
the votes of the inhabitants being unimportant. But
there is a natural fear that it will be reserved for
other purposes.
During a preliminary discussion, the six Premiers
had the gall to demand increased road grants “based
on an additional per gallon on petrol imported
and Hd. per gallon excise.” Mr. Bruxner (N.S.W.)
appeared in the unusual guise of a friend of road-
users. He painted a picture of the sorry plight of
his State, with 264,000 vehicles on 15,000 miles of
main roads, and pointed out that heavy traffic needed
paved and tarred surfaces; but he did not stress tne
fact that heavy traffic has been pushed off most of
the main roads lest it should harm the Government
railways. Also, western N. S. Wales development has
become the concern of Mr. Stevens’s deputy because
the country out there is sparsely settled, and “rich
coastal lands” he finds “still inaccessible.”
It is now possible for travellers for pleasure to
go from one capital to another on virtual speedways.
But the touring maps of North Queensland still mark
spots on the main western track where the motorist
is advised to truck his car because of the condition
of the so-called highway. It is an adventure to drive
from Sydney to Bourke in wet weather, and the main
“road” to Central Queensland from the N. S. Wales
border usually consists of a couple of churned-up ruts
across the black soil. This is the military highway
by which any southern force would have to reach
the Northern Territory in time of invasion.
At just on 7id. per gallon, petrol tax now returns
about £8,000,000 p.a. This represents a little over £lO
p.a. per motor vehicle. Registration and license fees
bring the figure up to £l6 per vehicle ; and the average
life of a car is about nine years. Country users
of cars and lorries pay added taxes in the shape of
freight charges. Petrol can be bought at round Is. Bd.
a gallon in Sydney, but in Goulburn, 130 miles away,
it is 25.; in Tarcutta, 2s. 3d.; in Eden and Bateman’s
Bay, 2s. Id.; in Central Australia, 4s. to ss.
Mr. Casey has already admitted to deputations
that this petrol taxation cannot be equitably sustained.
A substantial reduction is expected—that and more
attention on the part of the Commonwealth to actual
expenditure of road-money. In the international situa-
tion that has arisen, the national Government cannot
afford to support the transport-strangulation policy in
any shape or form.
Southward Ho!
Whether or not the world considers it presumptuous
for a nation of 6,750,000 people inhabiting just on
3,000,000 square miles to annex a territory as large
again, Australia has formally taken over a huge slice
of Antarctica.
This has been done, first, by a Royal Order-in-
Council; and, second, by the proclamation of the
Australian Antarctic Acceptance Act.
The territory annexed abounds in whales, fur-
bearing animals and birds. Coal has been found there
or thereabouts, and it may have goldfields comparable
to those of the Yukon and the Lena. It comprises
Enderby Land, discovered and named by a British
sealer in 1831 ; Kemp Land, discovered by another
sealer in 1833 ; Knox Land, discovered by the Ameri-
can Lieutenant Wilkes in 1840; Queen Mary Land,
Wilkes Land and King George V. Land, discovered
by the Mawson expedition of 1911-14 ; Macßobertson
Land, Princess Elizabeth Land and Banzare Land,
named by the 1929-31 expedition led by Mawson;
the eastern part of Queen Maud’s Land and Lars
Christiansen Land, discovered by Norwegian whalers
in 1930-31.
Simultaneously with the proclamation of the
Antarctic Territory Acceptance Act, the Comnion-
wealth has proclaimed the whaling bill, embodying a
convention drawn up by the League of Nations. What
will happen to the whale wealth of Antarctica unless
regulation is enforced is shown by the fact that 11,369
whales, yielding 407,327 barrels of oil, were killed in
1919-20; 40,000 whales, yielding 3,250,000 barrels, in
1930-31. Overproduction caused unremunerative
prices, and the companies concerned, by private agree-
ment, limit the yield to about 2,000,000 barrels a year.
The Commonwealth has now charged itself with,
the responsibility for regulating whaling in the seas
off its own territory. All whalers must be licensed,
and the killing of whales with calves is prohibited.
Policing will be an immense task, but it should not
be beyond Commonwealth resources, employed with
energy and intelligence.
Taxation by Stealth.
Payers of income tax throughout Australia have felt
rather than seen the growing power of officials since
depression loaded us with extra burdens, not removed
since “prosperity” has got “out of hand.’
They have been smitten with State Acts legalising
(very doubtfully) special taxation on inter-State
income, and with a N. S. Wales measure that permits
the taxation of overseas companies in respect to the
manufacturing profit on goods sold in N. S. Wales.
Now comes a Federal “regulation’ that threatens to
increase taxable income of pastoralists by some mil-
lions next year.
Section 33 of the Commonwealth Income Tax
Act touches on the basis of valuation of livestock.
Certain limits to the discretion ol: a pastoralist in
valuing for assessment are prescribed ; under the old
regulations the minimum for lambs was 2s. 6d., for
calves 10s.
In the Act as assented to on June 2, 1936, there
is no mention of new limits. But on July 8
regulations were brought in lifting the minimum for
lambs to 4s. and for calves to £l. For taxation
purposes pastoralists will be forced to show a “profit
of Is. 6d. a head on sheep and 10s. a head on calves
during the first year; and because of averaging provi-
sions the effect will be felt during later years.
Assuming that natural increase as regards sheep
will be 33 1-3 p.c., a taxable “profit” of £3,000,000
will result, if all woolgrowers adopted the minimum
now discarded. More likely three-fourths of them
did ; but the figure leaves cattle out.
The voice of Jacob and the hand of Esau arc closely
associated in the “uniformity’ of which so much has
been heard.
Ariadne's Monument.
The League gave away with a recent set of reports
a picture of its new palace in Geneva. Underneath
the picture is an extract from the dedicatory speech
of M. Avenol, the Secretary-General, who calls atten-
tion to the fact that the million-pound palace has been
built in Ariana Park, “named after Ariadne”:
I trust that the very name of the spot which calls
to mind an ancient legend may be a happy augury,
and that, on its way through the international labyrinth,
the League of Nations will hold a guiding thread which,
even if it may sometimes appear thin, will not break.
“Ancient legend” varies as much as modern news-
paper legends, but this is the story as told by Homer.
There was a Greek named Theseus, who had
all the characteristics of a modern dictator. He
was always right, and he spent his days making war
and his nights making it clear to the public that all
the people he attacked were horrible examples of
moral turpitude, given to employing the ancient
equivalent of mustard gas. He “liquidated” the Pine
Bender, so called because he caught humans with bent
saplings, as Queenslanders catch wallabies, and Pro-
crustes, who always cut down or stretched his guests
to fit their beds in a fashion which would have made
an Abyssinian laugh.
Theseus married, reared a family (it worshipped
asparagus), put on a long robe and let his hair grow.
He walked the streets, of Athens looking as much
like a girl as possible. This was the equivalent of
a “denial of warlike intention,” as practised three
thousand years later. When comments were made
on his weakness, he lifted his Great Toe and left a
lot of Athenians with bruises. After that King AEgeus
recognised him as a favorite son, and asked him to
go out and slay the Cretan Minotaur, which was
hidden in a labyrinth and most inconveniently
demanded seven Athenian youths and seven maidens
as part of its annual diet.
The Minotaur was a nasty piece of work, with
a bull’s head and a human form, but its sister Ariadne
was as different from it as some nations in the League
are different from others. She was the goddess of
vegetarians, and she had a bad husband —one Dionysos,
god of wine. Ariadne liked the look of Theseus, and
when he went into the Labyrinth she kept him on a
string so that he wouldn’t get lost. After he
had polished off the Minotaur he let go the string
in the approved League-member fashion, and Diony-
sos got Artemis (Diana), the huntress-goddess, who
also controlled the desire of men to fight, to knock
Ariadne on the head.
Theseus went back to Greece. The events after
his return were such that his annual festival was ever
afterwards celebrated with weeping. But he went on
killing until he met a snag called Lycomedes, who
heaved him over a cliff.
The feast of Ariadne was kept up for a time (she
was goddess of spring as well as of vegetarians), with as
many drinks as there were in the bottle, followed by
plenty of jazz. But in later ages only people like
League secretaries and sentimental classical painters
remembered her, though Artemis, who slew her, and
who controlled the urge to war, is well remembered
by almost everybody.
History, along with its habit of repeating itself,
shows a remarkable adaptability to changing con-
ditions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Coif”: In many ways the spirit of
the Middle Ages survives in the United
States. A striking example is the trial for
murder in New York State of a dog which
had drowned his master by climbing on
his shoulders while swimming. The tyke
was sentenced to two years’ confinement
in a backyard. In medkeval days trials
of animals for all sorts of crimes were
frequent. Perhaps the leading case was
that of a sow —her name has escaped me,
if she had one —which faced the Courts
on a charge of murder at Rouen, she hav-
ing allegedly eaten an infant. Found
guilty, the wretch was sentenced to be
burned at the stake, and the sentence
was duly carried out. Whether the con-
demned received the consolations of re-
ligion is not known, but it seems a horrid
waste of good pork.
* * * *
“Bridport”: There died the other day
in England an ex-M.P. who had sat for
32 years in the House of Commons,
which he finally left with the distinction,
almost his sole one, of having “blocked
more bills than any other living mem-
ber.” He seems to have made a hobby
of it ; finally a peerage was bestowed on
him, possibly as the only way of getting
rid of him. These amiable eccentrics, or
obstructive nuisances, crop up periodi-
cally ; the marvel is that their constitu-
ents don’t get tired of them before their
fellow-members. Over 50 years ago there
was an M.P. named Warton who brought
bill-blocking to a fine art, for no reason
that could be ascertained, except sheer
cussedness. Whenever a private measure
could be talked out or hung up he was
there to do it. The Government took a
curious way of getting rid of him. He
happened to be a lawyer, and it offered
him the Attorney-Generalship of West-
ralia, then a Crown colony. He grabbed
it and departed, to everybody’s relief.
If his memory still lingers in Perth it is as
that of an official who was as notoriously
unfitted for his job as a man could be.
A few years later, Westralia got respon-
sible government, and Warton returned
to England on a pension.
“Tuart”: More misinformation from
Europe:
Prince Ha raid, of Denmark, announces
that his daughter, Princess Alexandrine
Louise, has become affianced to Count
Luitpold Zu Castell, of Germany.
What's the use of trying to stuff Aus-
tralians with fairy-tales like that? Our
most eminent proprietary-racing knight,
who writes “Why 1 Publish ‘Spiflicator's
Weekly,’ ” has positively betrothed the
lady to King Edward.
* * * ❖
“Poor Fuel’’: She's a member of the
local school Mothers’ Club, much
addicted to what she would describe as
social service, and last week she bailed
up my wife and sought to sell her a
ticket in a raffle for a ton of firewood.
After much protesting, the wife ex-
claimed: “What would 1 do with a ton
of wood if I won it?” The other had
her answer pat : “Oh, but, my dear, you
might not win!” When the wife re-
covered she found she had bought a
ticket.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The Americanisation of Aus-
tralian girls per medium of talkies, radio
and the illustrated press is extending to the
boys. In the subbubs nowadays you can
see youngsters sporting two-gallon hats,
schools have “cheer-leaders,” and no
baseball club is complete without its
“rooter.” I saw one of these absurd
urchins, at work in Parramatta Park.
Slapping an open palm with another
cased in a baseball glove, and bending
low until he almost kissed the ground,
he kept up a flow of meaningless yabber
during a whole “inning.” Significantly,
nobody but myself was giving him the
slightest attention. I think the Australian
sense of the incongruous is too keen for
Americanisation to penetrate deeply. In
Melbourne a party of University youths
sought to establish an Association of
Veterans of Future Wars on the lines of’
the sportive societies which have sprung
up in the U.S.A. There the thing was a
pretty good joke, being a neat satire on
the demand for huge bonuses by so-
called Great War Veterans, millions of
whom in 1917-18 had the time of their
lives and were never in the slightest
danger. In Australia, with its 60,000
war graves, its 20,000 soldiers dead since
1918, and maimed, ailing and ageing
Diggers to be seen everywhere, the imita-
tion was outrageously out of place,
and the ridicule of a small crowd extin-
guished it in a few minutes. Never was
there a suddener flop.
“S.T.S.”: Examiners and other gram-
marians are constantly falling foul of
“alright” as a single word with a single
“1.” Yet Young Australia insists on using
it, which suggests that we are witnessing
the unconscious, instinctive production
of a new and useful word. There are
ample precedents. “Always” now has a
meaning, and therefore a spelling, quite
distinct from “all ways”; nor does
“altogether” any longer mean all in com-
pany. Probably “also” and “almost”
have graduated in the same way. The
two-word phrase may still, as in the
other examples cited, remain for use on
the rare occasions when it does mean
what it says: as “These answers are all
right.” I have never, till this moment,
written “alright” as a single word ; but
I think the ultra-conservative gram-
marians will drive us to it.
* * * *
“Ex-Sahib”: If we are thinking of
Dak bungalows (B. 26/8/’36) why not
hare youth hostels, which are plenti-
ful in Europe? Even England has them
now. They are economical to run be-
cause they are worked on the cafeteria
principle. The Dak bungalow system, as
applied in India, would hardly work
here, for in Hindustan they are more or
less open houses into which a sahib
strides, plus servants and plus bedding.
If we had such open houses in the back-
blocks it would be hard to keep swaggies
out of them. They would bowl in plus
bedding but minus servants, and prob-
ably minus cash.
* * * *
“Ex-5.8.”: “Garda” (B. 20/8/’36)
does not want to take mustard gas too
casually, though its conflicting actions
puzzled me. At the Bazentin train-load-
ing post I held up a Digger, trying to
give him some relief. He was in fright-
ful pain, frothing at the mouth, gas
burns over his face and his eyes ban-
daged. Mustard gas was his ticket diag-
nosis, and ever after in gas alarms I shud-
dered when I recalled his dying agonies.
In the Glencorse Wood stunt we were
carrying out a stretcher case, shoulder
high, when Fritz strafed the track with
mustard shells. Our patient was delirious
and without a respirator ; even to stop to
put ours on might have meant a full issue
of gas for him. “Run through it,” yelled
our squad leader, and we ran through
the yellow cloud bang into a denser one
that seemed likely to end our soldiering
for a while. We counted the time for
eight hours, when usually mustard gas
started working ; 1 got an inflamed eye-
lid out of it, the dther three of the squad
nothing at all, yet we had the taste of
mustard down to our innards and our
clothes reeked of it.
“Gas Gasper”: As one still suffering
from the effects of mustard gas 1 can’t
have it that the stuff is not a terror. I
have lost the use of one eye and have
to use glasses for the other. Also, the
blisters in the tender parts of the body
were more painful than any wounds
I have sustained. Four of my mates were
gassed at the same time at Villers Bret.
Two died, and when I saw them stripped
about two hours later in the M.D.S. be-
fore I became blind myself, their bodies
looked as if they had been immersed in
boiling water. Give me a bullet in pref-
erence to mustard gas any time.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Don’t disparage “Thorough-
bred,” the Australian picture; it has
educational value. At our suburban show
it had just reached the part showing Mel-
bourne as seen from a boat in the river;
as the word “Melbourne” was super-
imposed on the city’s skyline, an in-
credulous female voice said, “Oh, it’s
quite a big place! ”
* * * #
“D.Y.”: Most people who travel to
and from Sydney daily in the Manly fer-
ries are hardened to rough-weather con-
ditions, but there is still a handful of
regulars who, at the sign of a heavy
swell, will take the long tram journey via
The Spit in preference. Most of them
are women, but there is at least one
male you would hardly expect to find in
such company. He is a retired mariner!
* * *
“A. de G.”: Some fashions likely to
be started by King Edward’s Dalmatian
cruise:
1. Vogue in skittles (the King played it
with fisherfolk on the island of Rab).
2. Vogue in Dalmatian dogs, once very
popular in England. There are not
many left in Dalmatia now; those that
remain arc mostly used for hunting
jackals on the island of Korcula.
These are the last jackals left in
Europe.
3. Vogue in Maraschino. This famous
liqueur used to be supplied to Queen
Victoria direct from the distillery in
Zara.
4. Vogue in Shakspcare. Both “The
Tempest” and “Twelfth Night” have
their setting about the Dalmatian coast.
In the reign of Elizabeth there was a
flourishing trade between England and
Dalmatia, and Shakspeare heard all
about the Adriatic from sea captains
whom lie met in taverns around and
about the Globe Theatre.
5. Vogue in sardines, sponges and olive
oil, all products of Dalmatia.
* * He *
“Oran”: A most unexpected opium
haul was made by a youthful Sydney
p.c. who, patrolling a lonely section of
the Pyrmont waterside, noticed one mid-
night an opening about 6in. square in a
high fence, which he felt sure had not
been there previously. Curiosity prompted
him to put his hand in,
whereupon a small pack-
age was placed on his
palm. Pocketing the pack-
age, he held out his hand
again, with the same re-
suit, and he accepted a dozen tins before
a voice on the opposite side said “No
more.” Leaping the fence the p.c. was in
time to see a figure disappearing into the
shadows, but the chase ended in escape.
There remained merely the dozen tins
of first-grade evidence.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Just by way of settling
the “handing of commissions.” The
beatific moment is intimated in the
“Gazette,” together with seniority, and
is usually retrospective. The parchment
merely confirms this. The actual “hand-
ing” of a commission goes back to the
Peninsular War, when it was delivered in
exchange for a lump sum down.
* * >;c ❖
“Lampy”: As a fellow who's slung
many a nob and spun a grey, though
now retired, let me into this double-
header argument. There isn’t any need
to take pennies to an expert for doctor-
ing. When I was working the sheds 1
used to make my own. After getting two
pennies that pair well it’s only a matter
of filing them down carefully—and when
a man knows that if the job isn't well
done he’s going to get his ribs stove in.
then he is careful. After pairing the coins
get a bit of the silver tissue that is inside
some packets of cigarettes. Put the two
pennies together with a sheet of tissue
between, take a pair of pliers and hold
them in the flame of a candle until the
tissue’s all run out. After cooling oft
that lot a man’s got a double-header
warranted to stand a fair amount of
rough usage.
NOTHING TO WEAR.
“Tlie committee arranging the King’s Coronation
proceedings next year lias learned that some ot the
peers who wish to take part are too poor to afford
Coronation robes.”
1 fancy that it’s one of our democracy’s
hypocrisies
To stress the enviable lot of titled aristocracies;
They have their troubles, same as we, most
ev'ry mother’s son of ’em,
And impecuniosity, it’s clear, is sometimes one
of ’em.
A mantle trimmed with miniver may often
prove a sorrow-net,
A brow be creased with carking care beneath
a ducal coronet,
And, oh! it’s tough upon a peer who can’t
afford the clobber he’s
Forced to acquire for his attire at super-royal
corroborees.
My heart goes out to needy carls, and
viscounts, too, and marquises
Who’re short of Coronation robes to drape
around their carcasses.
1 feel a pang for noblemen in crumbling halls
baronial
Who’re minus haberdashery for such a cere-
monial.
Where are the duds that decked their dads, five
lustrums back, or thereabouts,
When Georgius Quintus was enthroned? Ah,
who can tell their whereabouts?
Surtouts and capes in gorgeous shapes, with
bars of ermine twined on ’em,
Gold-tasselled caps—all gone. Perhaps the
hungry moths have dined on ’em.
Our own glad rags may disappear till better
, days shall dawn again
And bring along the wherewithal to hoick
them out of pawn again,
Or second-hand emporiums may give us the
facility
For hiring raiment that’s denied to Britain’s
old nobility.
No such expedient for them—you simply can’t
imagine it
In clans that date from Tudor times or,
possibly, Plantagenet.
And yet within the Abbey walls there’s not a
peer may venture his
Patrician frame without the garb that’s
sanctified by centuries.
I’ve sympathy for any man—the quiet chap or
windy gent.—
Who cannot realise his heart’s desire because
lie’s indigent.
1 care not if it’s beef and beer he craves for
needs corporeal
Or if his finer fancy yearns for pageantry
pictorial.
But most I ache for men of rank—the stillest
oft the best of ’em —
For belted earls and barons bold and dukes
and all the rest of ’em,
Who may not see their sovereign crowned or
join in the ovationing
Because they lack the fripperies required for
Coronationing.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Gunner’s Mate”: The papers have
been making a fuss and hinting at Com-
munistic influences over the alleged dis-
appearance of some firing locks from
the Canberra’s anti-aircraft guns while
the ship was at sea. Little protests of
this kind have always been characteristic
of disgruntled lower-deck ratings. In
the days when Britain really ruled the
waves, a lower deck fed up with con-
ditions of pay and living very little better
than those which induced the Mutiny at
the Nore used to throw overboard the
gun sights, an important part of naval
artillery in the ’eighties. There was
never any particular fuss about it.
* * * *
“Argent”: The Federal Government
is said to be considering the issue of five-
shilling notes to meet some alleged meed
in the commercial world. I hope it comes
to nothing. My experience of small-
denominationed paper money in other
countries —Mauritius, for instance —is
that it quickly becomes grimy, greasy,
tattered and patently unhygienic. If
there really is a demand for some such
currency addition, it would be much
more sensible to resuscitate the half-
crown. Silver is cheap enough, anyway,
and ten times as clean as crumpled and
evii-smelling paper equivalents. Also it
is less destructible.
* x * *
“Crewe”: The other day a well-dressed
middle-aged man stood in the dock at a
Brisbane police court charged with dis-
turbing the peace, to wit, fighting with
another man in Queen-street. The de-
fendant pleaded his own case. “It was
this way, y’r Worship. I was standing
near two men who were talking; and
one of them used an obscene word, so I
tried to arrest him. He struggled, and
then a police constable came along and
arrested me. Y’r Worship, I was made a
Justice of the Peace last week and I
couldn’t stand by without taking action
against that man, could I?” “H’m,” com-
mented the beak, “you disturbed the
peace to keep the peace, eh? When you
have familiarised yourself with your
magisterial duties you will learn that they
do not include going round town arrest-
ing people.” Then he discharged the
newly-made Jay Pea with a caution.
* * X X
“Selah”: Am inclined to doubt “Ike
Hollar’s” theory (B. 26/8/’36) that
Queen Victoria prided herself on the
alleged descent of the British royal
family from King David of Judah. A
recent life of Palmerston tells how, when
the Queen was chatting with her women-
in-waiting, conversation turned on the
mid-Victorian conception of Heaven.
One enthusiast was holding forth on the
rapture there would be in meeting famous
Biblical characters in the next world
—“lsaiah, Elijah and that sweet singer
in Israel, David.” Conscious of a frosty
atmosphere, the speaker looked up.
Thunder sat on the old Queen’s brow.
There was a ghastly pause ; then “We
will not meet David” clinched the discus-
sion.
* * * *
“Ahoy”: Not only sugar fumes (B.
19/8/’36) but fruit also can be a deadly
cargo when hundreds of tons are lumped
down below. Fruit emits fermenting
gases as poisonous as the most lethal
chemical preparations. Bananas, dates
and apples have been known to affect
whole ships’ companies. On one occa-
sion members of the crew of a small
tramp staggered ashore in a fair way to
be arrested as “drunks” : their binge had
been on gas from cider apples.
“Ike Hollar": A clergyman has been
advocating more religious discussion in
the home. Still, it can be overdone.
When 1 was a small boy quartered on
my grandparents in England, an uncle
who had been converted to Buddhism
in India returned somewhat unexpectedly.
The Sunday after his arrival, when
various other relatives had returned from
their respective churches, things began
to get warm. My grandfather, a fine old
gentleman, was a Plymouth Brother, and
he was always oppressed by the thought
that my grandmother, an adherent of
Bradlaugh and freethought, would not
be with him among the 144,000 of the
elect. Two aunts were High Church
and a third Low —the bitterness between
them was greater than between those of
“Did you say ‘mantle or ‘ mental ’ department ?"
creeds much wider apart. A great aunt
who looked in occasionally had become
a Baptist; another relative was a Sweden-
borgian; while Cousin Arthur (a regu-
lar) made atheism a more dogmatic re-
ligion than any of the others. Occasion-
ally others were present, but it was clear
even to my youthful mind that every-
body regarded nearly everybody else as
damned. My own main feeling on the
matter was a hope that the storm which
invariably broke up the Sabbath midday
meal would not come until the dessert
had arrived ; I did like that dessert.
* * x x
“Double Disc”: Roebuck Bay was
emphatically not the part of Australia
“where Dampier first set foot” (B.
26/8/’36). On his first visit to New
Holland, in the Cygnet in 1688, the coast
was sighted near the Lacepede Islands,
“And another point about our forthcoming jumble sale. Garments
should in every case have a full complement of buttons .”
which lie about 90 miles north of
Broome. The Cygnet then turned north
and coasted along to King Sound, where
she anchored in Cygnet Bay for repairs.
It was here Dampier first landed and re-
marked that the aboriginals were “the
miserablest people in the world.” It
was another 11 years before, in the Roe-
buck, he got soundings off the Abrolhos
group. Shark Bay, where an unsuccess-
ful search for water was made, was his
first landing place on that voyage. The
Roebuck then coasted north till she
anchored in Roebuck Bay. Dampier, of
course, never had any treasure to bury.
“Country Ped.”: There may not be
many Spaniards in Australia to-day (B.
12/8/’36), but there are families in Ben-
digo, at least, whose names attest their
country of origin. Their grandparents or
great-grandparents came out from Spain
70 or 80 years ago at the call of Coun-
cillor Carolan, ofttimes Mayor of Ben-
digo, to show the natives of the Golden
City how to grow tomatoes. This they
did so successfully that for very many
years Bendigo tomatoes consistently
topped the Melbourne market; even
to-day barrowmen will inform certain
familiar customers when they have Ben-
digo tomatoes for sale, and charge a
little extra accordingly. So the now
widespread tomato-growing industry has
something to thank Spain for.
* * * *
“Vario”: The Director of the Adelaide
Art Gallery recently condemned the
South Australian centenary
stamp as being “like a label on
a jam-tin.” Invariably new
issues of stamps in this country
have all sorts of faults found
with them; nevertheless, at a
recent philatelic exhibition at
Washington (U.S.A.), a collec-
tion of Australian stamps won a
prize against exhibits from all
parts of the world.
“Hellene”: “Cestus” (B. 19/8/36)
seems to think that the cestus was origi-
nally intended as protection for the
boxers’ hands, and that the Romans
brutalised this form of sport. If he looks
at the statues of Greek boxers in Sydney
Botanic Gardens or in Centennial Park
he will see a weight in the hand. This
is the ancient cestus : it used to be tast-
ened by thongs of hide round the hand
and wrist. Later weight was increased,
and technique included swinging strokes.
The rabbit-killer would be flapper petting
to a good windmill stroke delivered on
the top of the head with such a weight
in the hand.
* * * =!'■
“Edenglassie”: Diggers who passed
through Enoggera (Q.) will recall White-
foot ; the old horse has faced a soldier’s
death after 24 years of service. Bought
for the remounts when he was four,
Whitefoot did his bit in the war at Enog-
gera, helping to train drivers for the
A.F.A. The steadiest horse in any gun
team, he was a great favorite. The old
warrior made his last appearance as “off
lead” at a recent tattoo.
* * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Far worse than
the torments of hay fever (B. 15/7/’36)
are those suffered
by woodworkers
whose systems are
sensitive to the
dust from certain
woods, such as red
pine, cedar and
blackwood. Let
them come within
scent of their par-
ticular curse being
worked or sanded,
and they begin to
cough, their eyes
stream with tears
and their skin is
apt to rise in red
and angry blotches,
which may persist
for days. Vaccines
help some cases;
others have to learn
another trade to
escape the trouble.
The champion wood
for causing misery
is black beanwood. Put a bit on the
sand drum and you’ll have half the hands
in the workshop coughing, scratching and
cursing.
“Triconi”: The experienced moun-
taineer will always fear sudden blizzards
like the one which swept over the Aus-
tralian Alps and caught three skiers on an
unsheltered skyline (B. 26/8/’36). Maori-
land climbers have learned to pack addi-
tional warm garments and sustaining food
extracts for emergency use. But better
things than blizzards are commonly bred
by mountains. Glen Valley miners and
cattlemen left their work to join the
search for the lost Australians: a few
years ago towns and farms round Mt.
Ruapehu (M.L.) responded in the same
way when an Auckland University party
went astray. And it isn’t always the lost
or injured who die ; a Taranaki (M.L.)
man named Gibson went to help an in-
jured alpinist on Egmont in 1929 and
lost his life in a blizzard which caught
him above scrub level.
:|i H 1 H* : i :
“Lid”: The Australian military hat
with its turned-up brim has had a lot of
criticism; now General “Bertie” Lloyd
has dubbed it “the most appalling con-
traption ever devised.” The turn-up was
born of the long Martini bayonet and the
“shoulder arms” that was then part of
the manual exercises. An attempt to
shoulder in a flat-brimmed cady saw it
either spiked by the bayonet or knocked
off—this last one of the 17 deadly sins
from the old-time R.S.M.’s point of
view. On active service the turn-up, in
writer’s experience in South Africa and
the last Donnybrook, was never utilised
save on special eyewash parades. In the
Sinai-Palestine campaign the Australian
regiments of the Anzac M.D. wore the
brim turned down by order, the badge
being shown on the front of the pogri.
% * * *
“2nd Spook”: Strange noises from a
bedroom occupied by tourists who had
arrived that day disturbed the slumbers
of a southern N.S.W. publican the other
niaht. Awakened twice by mysterious
tappings, Bung toured his premises, but
everything seemed in order. The tap-
pings continued ; he could stand it no
longer, and thrust open their door.
A group of people, apparently in
deep meditation, turned on the in-
truder indignantly. Explanations fol-
lowed: they were spiritualists trying to
get in contact with a bushranger who
had practised his profession thereabouts
in the bad old days. The operators, after
persistent efforts, had induced the de-
parted to reply with one knock when
the publican ruined the seance.
PORT SAID.
McLeod, the second engineer, a very godly
man, . ,
He’s been praying something awiul down
below; , T ...
I couldn't think the reason, and I didn t like
to ask,
But now I’m nearly certain that I know.
For Port Said is dead ahead —we’ll anchor there
at dawn;
And the day is breaking fine and very clear;
But my mother asked my father it he would
ask the captain
Not to give me any shore-leave here.
I am just a young cadet, but I know a thing
or two,
Though I haven’t been so very long at sea:
I can understand McLeod —lie’s a very decent
sort —
But I wish he wouldn’t look so hard at me.
I’ve half a mind to follow him —he just went
down below;
I’ve half a mind to tell him: “Never tear!
For my father asked the captain, and 1 think
the captain promised,
Not to give me any shore-leave here.”
QUEENSLAND.
L. O’NEIL.


ti
A
20 /ur lf6
10/„r9"
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
(%e*yt£4it&ek.
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
im
*
THE
CORK
TtPP£O
CIGARETTE
EE
THIS
GENERAT
POLITICAL POINTS
Before the Premiers’ Conference talked
itself out, Ogilvie, the Tasmanian Pre-
mier, disgustedly observed that “for 26
years Premiers’ Conferences have done
nothing but talk.” This is hardly fair,
for one Premiers’ Conference made his-
tory by doing something. It decided that
every Cabinet Minister (there are seven
Ministries) who has been three years in
office shall be deemed to have thereby
qualified for a life pass over all the Gov-
ernment railway lines in Australia.
There is to be no Commonwealth
referendum, and no politician, Common-
wealth or State, is sorry, though some may
pretend to be. The Premiers of the three
small States refused to have anything to
do with the thing, and Canberra, never
really keen, grasped the opportunity- to
drop it. A referendum is necessary, but
it must await the advent of stronger and
more farsighted men.
Three days before the wool sales began,
the Japanese Consul-General went to
Canberra to see Gullett. The Japanese
Foreign Office spokesman says it was “in
response to the Australian Minister’s
written request,” and this has not been
denied. Along with the concessions
granted to importers of Japanese goods,
it is a sorry sequel to the claim that the
Government in starting the trade war
was actuated by towering patriotism and
would never budge an inch.
Murray Robson, the “unendorsed”
U.A.P. candidate for Vaucluse (N.S.W.),
beat the “official” nominee by a majority
of 4300 or so in a poll of 16,000-odd. A
day or two later he was told that some
official or other would be “willing to
have Mr. Robson officially recognised as
the U.A.P. member on his joining one
of the branches and subscribing to the
rules of membership, which, in the event
of his being defeated in a pre-selection
ballot, would debar him from contesting
the seat again" In other words, he is to
sigree “in principle” to let 200 or so
U.A.P. persons nullify the verdict of the
10,600 or 10,700 electors who put him
in. How is that for hide?
Bishop Burgmann, usually so voluble
on the subject of the Wonderful Revolu-
tion, has been strangely silent since the
Zinovievs and Kamenevs were bumped
off. It would be at least interesting to
know whether he considers the bumping
off a development or an interruption of
“Russia’s mighty experiment for the
future of the world.”
It will be dreadful if the Stalinists go
looking for Trotskyists in Australia.
There is one, a nervous little fellow,
among the professors at a great univer-
sity.
The raising of the 40-hour-week ques-
tion has led to lamentable exhibitions of
backing and filling. Maoriland Labor,
while granting the concession to city
chaps, has refused it to rural workers.
Vic Premier Dunstan was seen in this
performance at Adelaide:
“I move that this [Premiers’] conference
affirms the principle of a shorter working
week.”
There was no seconder.
Mr. Forgan Smith moved for “the early
introduction of a national 40-hour week.”
The motion was defeated by one vote
—Mr. Dunstan’s.
When the public sees Dunstan and the
rest of the Agrarians introducing the 40-
hour week on their farms it will believe
that they believe in it.
Ex-Premier Prendergast blithering in
the Melbourne Assembly—and Prendy is
really old enough to know better:
Russia, although a Communist State,
is probably the most civilised country at
present, because it attends to the needs
of all its people.
It is certainly attending to the needs of
the Executioners’ Union.
In an expansive moment Brig.-Gen.
Lloyd, M.L.A., whose Assembly electo-
rate (Mosman) is part of ParkhilPs Fed-
eral division, referred to Parkhill “as a
courageous little man who is preparing
now for compulsory training, which he
knows and I know will be essential.”
Next day the hero denied everything but
his heroism.
The steps now being taken are in no
way connected with the reintroduction of
compulsory training. They are in accord-
ance with the Government’s definite policy
of voluntary enlistment.
And, of course, with the Government’s
definite policy of going after the greatest
number of votes.
Victoria has had little luck in the
matter of London loan conversions. Of
£198,000,000 converted, its share has been
a mere £22,620,000, and annual saving
in interest and exchange only £418,000.
“Lang Labor has put so many ‘comrades’ out of ‘the movement' that it has been reduced
to putting the same gentlemen out twice.”
“John Marcus Baddeley, go outside at once and chuck some of those boys in so
that I can chuck them out again!”
Had it been half as fortunate as N.S.W.,
whose Government-railway interest and
exchange bill alone has been, reduced by
something like £1,500,000, Dunstan would
have been able to announce a substantial
1935-36 surplus instead of a deficit of
£115,000.
Death has necessitated an unusual
number of by-elections in Victoria this
year. Parkin, M.L.A. for Allandale, was
the first to go, then ex-Premier John
Allan (Rodney); and Martin McGregor
(M.L.C., Gippsland) and Cleary (M.L.A.,
Benalla) passed away in the same week.
A successor has also to be found for
Bourchier (M.L.A., Goulburn Valley),
who is going to the London office. There
are 99 members altogether, and old Par-
liamentary hands cannot recall so many
vacancies occurring in the same space
of time.
“S. M. Herald” has discovered that
W.A. has “never been very enthusiastic
towards Federation.” Judging by its
votes at referenda, it has been far more
enthusiastic than the “Herald’s” own
State. It accepted the Constitution by
44,800 to 19,691 ; whereas N.S.W. re-
jected the original draft (of 80,000 votes
required only 71,759 were got), and when
the thing was “amended” to please it
could muster only 107,420 ayes against
82,741 noes. Except in 1926 Westralia
has polled substantial majorities at
every referendum at which increased
Commonwealth powers were sought, in-
cluding, of course, the two conscription
referenda. N.S.W. said no to everything
except the financial agreement.
Lazzarini, was on the Syd-
ney Trades Hall platform when Laz-
zarini, M.L.A., was expelled by the
Lang Labor executive for having
attended “a ‘bogus’ conference” seeking
“the readmission of Mr. Garden and
the disaffiliation of certain groups in
the interests of the Communist party.”
And Lazz., M.H.R., heard the executioner
say that Lazz., M.L.A., and others had
“deliberately and provocatively defied the
rules and constitution of the party which
has placed them in their lucrative posi-
tions.” Did he object to the sentence,
defend his brother, offer a plea for
mercy? No ; he was as dumb as a drum
with a hole in it.
It came out the other day that British
trade-union chiefs were supporting the
efforts of an international trade-union
body to “combat Fascism” in Italy, Ger-
*, . .
many and other countries, thereby giving
indirect support to Communism. The
disclosure was followed immediately by
a British trade-union protest, voiced by
“Sir” Walter Citrine, against the ruthless
denial of ordinary British forms of jus-
tice to Zinoviev, Kamenev and the
„„„„ ~
ruffians associated with them by the other
set of ruffians in power at Moscow.
British Labor, like Australian Labor, has
n rpor/aftci hi a lonrimim.
a legietUble tendency to be m two minds
at the same time.
Changes in forms of government and
economic svstems seem to have no effect
c n mic systems seem to nave no enect
on what the blurb-writers call 'the soul
of a nation.” Our rough-spoken fore-
fathers said “Scratch a Russian and you
finri .. Tnrtn, ” ~ • - .
d a Tartar. Obviously it remains true,
Menzies spoke at Adelaide of “the
notorious difficulty of inducing, not only
_„ • ~ , f .. , *
a majority of the people of Australia, but
a majority in four States, to agree to
constitutional amendment.” It really isn’t
so difficult when the cause is good and
, • . . T . s . , ”,
plainly put. Twice the people registered
large majorities for national control of
State debts. On the second occasion they
vetoed State borrowing and approved of
the establishment of a national sinking
fund. That happened eight years ago.
There were 2,237,391 ayes and 773,852
noes, and there has been no referendum
since.
In the bullock-wagon and camel-team
days, there was some ground for giving
people in remote parts more voting power
than people clustered about cities. The
ground narrows with every improve-
ment in transport and mail services ; yet
we find the S.A. Butler Government try-
ing to give an Assemblyman apiece to
Peterborough (4219 electors), Young
(4791), Port Augusta (4923), Newcastle
(4923) and Burra (5004), and one apiece
also to Torrens (18,131), Unley (16,888),
Hindmarsh (16,883), Prospect (16,141)
and Norwood (16,013): 13 members for
203,647 metropolitan electors and 26
for 148,674 country electors. One con-
solation is that this devastating example
of reaction will make Commonwealth
men of many of the victims. The Com-
monwealth has one vote, one value.
The annual meeting of Coles, the
chain-store concern, was enlivened by the
assertion of a shareholder that six of the
seven directors drew in “total remunera-
tion” £63,000 in 1934-35 and £57,000 in
1935-36, the £63,000 representing 87 p.c.
on paid-up capital. The chairman’s very
vague reply was that “the figures may or
may not be correct.” More candor will
be expected at the chain-store inquiry
soon to be commenced in N.S.W. It will
be conducted by the Industrial Commis-
sion.
Westralia is expecting a 28-million-
bushel wheat harvest. That looks goods ;
but there is another side to the story.
During the year to June 30, 710 farms
were abandoned to the Agricultural
Bank, bringing the number of abandoned
properties to 2791. And many of these
deserted holdings are, it seems, so “poor”
that they are being “examined with a
view to writing off the debt and return-
ing them, to the Lands Department.”
This information was conveyed to the
Leg. Assembly by Lands Minister Troy ;
and for once nobody had the face to
blame the Commonwealth.
A deputation to Queensland's Main
Roads Commission was told that appli-
cations for nearly 300 new roads were
“receiving consideration.” A few miles
irom Southport a sandy wilderness was
boomed into a holiday resort, named
Broadbeach. “Consideration” in the case
of Broadbeach took the form of bitumen
roads, constructed in record time. They
are admired by bush-farmers who cannot
get their produce to market, and by
heavy-vehicle owners who pay anything
up to £9OO a year for being allowed to
drive a truck over bullock tracks. Such
disaffected folk are suggesting that
Broadbeach should be renamed Poli-
ticians’ Paradise.
From Macquarie-street:
Had the Sydney relief-work rumpus occurred
while the F. and S.A. conference was being
held, instead of a week or two after, the U.A.P. -
C.P. alliance would have ended suddenly. As
now it is, severance is only a question of time.
Taken to task for acquiescing in the new relief-
work plan, for which Deputy-Premier Bruxner
is held responsible, Minister Spooner, who is
Stevens’s U.A.P. substitute, meekly signed a
memorandum to the effect that 28 U.A.P.
members at a party meeting were “unani-
mously of the opinion that the Government's
decision to dismiss certain relief-workers before
full-time work had been •found was unwise,
precipitate and calculated to cause unnecessary
hardship.” While Spooner was giving this
exhibition of total and ignominious surrender,
the afternoon paper came out with the genial
statement of a C.P. member that the U.A.P.
has “a razor gang in Parliament which is
running with the hare and hunting with the
hounds.” As a rule, razor gangs are not
addicted to these odd practices, but there will
be some running before long and good hunting
at the geneial election.


11 1 must P?uw along, now, Mrs Prattle,
And attbNd to ©aby?
" SHES JUST told Nie.
" rather CRAWP HER STYLE,
Wont- »t?"
" Oh 4 ITS TPUE EHOUGH l *
U i
ITS TIME she SETTLED
DOWN?
AMD SHE NEVER SAID A WORD To ANY OF US'.
/» ,
VOURE <S,OIN<3, TO WAVE A
CHRISTENING, THAT 'WU.U
SURPRISE YOU?
A UTTLE FROCVC POP-
Mps Gadabouts bASy,'"*
* But TWIS VS THE "
THE BABY.
“The car has conquered the cradle; the baby car is preferred to the baby boy,”— Bishop Baker, of Bendigo,


If you average 8 starts a day,
THE NOBBLER OF PETROL YOU SAVE
on each start with . *
SH ELL
would buy you 2 NEW TYRES A YEAR
l
m
■ t.
im
■\l \ \
Cl!
\\*
S7JC
ITS ENE R G Y C ONTENT SAV E S YOU
MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Maoriland’s new director of broadcast-
ing, James Shelley, is a Cambridge man
—Christ’s College—who was Professor of
Education at Canterbury College, and
before that at Southampton University
(Eng.) from 1914 to 1920. This earlier
job was much interrupted by the war,
which he entered as an R.F.A. lieutenant,
emerging as a major, to become chief
instructor at the War Office School of
Education. Shelley’s passion is the drama.
He has written largely upon it, and when a
lecturer at Manchester University he was
one of the city’s leading producers of
Ibsenish pieces. He founded the Christ-
church (M.L.) Repertory Theatre.
Douglas Pratt, who will illustrate Miles
Franklin’s S. H. Prior Prize novel in The
Bulletin, was Katoomba-born, son of a
Congregational minister and of a mother
who helped to impress on him the
beauties of the Australian landscape.
After jackerooing on a Singleton station
A Prophet of the Pencil.
and afterwards in Queensland, Pratt
became a licensed surveyor. He has
reason to know the locale of the Frank-
lin story well, because he surveyed many
thousands of acres of it in his theodolite
days, and now makes an annual pilgrim-
age to the Monaro in search of inspira-
tion. When he was 25 the desire to
express in etching and pencil the beauties
of the bush became too great for him,
and, encouraged by John Young and
Dattilo Rubbo, he set out to make him-
self a professional artist, drawing his
subjects from the Cooma country and at
the same time studying under Sid Long
at the N.S.W. Royal Art Society school.
He is represented in all Australian gal-
leries, but in later years—he is 36 —he
has concentrated more and more on the
pencil, which, to most artists a Cinderella,
is to him the princess among media for
picturing the Australian bush.
To fill the gap caused by Lance
Fallaw's retirement, the Fairfaxes have
appointed H. A. McClure Smith asso-
ciate editor of “S. M. Herald.” Only
son of the late W. A. McClure Smith,
g.m. of the Australian Estates Co.,
young Smith—he is still in his thirties— —
was Melbourne-born and received a local
school education, afterwards polished at
Oxford. For some years he has been on
the “Times,” is widely travelled and
knows European politics thoroughly.
R. N, Kirk was a landmark of O’Connell-
street, Sydney, where, with Lindsay
Robertson, he watched over B.H.P. in-
terests. Most people took the tall,
bearded, quiet man for an Englishman,
but Port Fairy (Vic.) was his native town.
Son of a mining engineer who died
young, he received his education from his
mother before following the paternal pro-
fession. Apart from he was a
director of a dozen important companies,
but if the revolution had arrived in his
lifetime he could easily have made a
living as cabinet-maker or photographer.
Canberra’s Advisory Commission gets
a new chairman in J. T. H. Goodwin,
formerly Surveyor-General. He should
know the mushroom city by this time ;
he was in charge of its administration
from 1916 to 1924, combining the duties
with those of Commonwealth Surveyor-
General. He retired in 1925, and since
1932 has been a member of the advisory
committee and special magistrate of the
F.C.T. Petty Sessions Court.
The Ewens family (S.A.) has a re-
markable police record. Two branches
have had four generations in the S.A.
police, and they are still represented. The
service of all the members so far aggre-
gates 194 years.
“Mudurup”: The statement (B.
26/8/’36) that the late Frank Wilson, of.
Westralia, “never had a sniff of office
again” after Newton Moore left him to
take a licking at the general elections in
1911 isn’t quite correct. Wilson , was
Opposition-leader for the next five years,
but in 1916 his party returned to office
and himself to the Premiership. His
second term in that job, however, was
comparatively brief and troublous. In
the end his followers' deposed him. They
decided that he was too autocratic.
There was little of moment that Heber
Hedley Booth —passed on in Brisbane at
73—did not know about Queensland. He
had been a postmaster or relieving offi-
cial in nearly every centre of the State
during 50 years, all the time scribbling
verse and articles for local papers. In
1909 he collected a wad of his verse
under the title Opalodes (his pen-name
was “Opal”). Louis Lavater included one
of his sonnets in The Sonnet in Australia.
Booth, a brother of Dr. James Booth, of
the, Australian Literature Society, was a
committeeman of Queensland Authors
and Artists’ Association.
“Johnny” Drew, State Secretary in the
Westralian Ministry,* has followed Col-
lier into retirement, at 71. He was the
Nestor of the party,
having sat in every
Labor Cabinet, in-
cluding the first
(1904-05). At that
time, he wasn’t a
pledged Labor
man, but it was
necessary to have
one Minister in the
Leg. Council, and
even then Drew
was reckoned “as-
good - as - Labor.”
Not until 1911 did
Johnny go the
whole hog; after
that his rig H t
to a portfolio in
every Labor
Cabinet, along with
the leadership of
the Upper House,
was never in ques-
tion. He won his Central Province seat
in 1900, and went on winning it, except
for one post-war break (1918-24). He
was a conscientious worker, a shrewd
campaigner and an able journalist.
R. J. HAWKES, president, Sydney
Chamber of Commerce.
Thomas Cullinan was about the last
of the great figures of S’Africa’s diamond
history. Discoverer of the Premier mine,
from which came the Cullinan diamond,
now in the Imperial Crown of England,
he was S’African-born, suffered the
stresses of several wars, brought up nine
children, became a knight in his late
forties and won the D.S.O. at 54. He
was a director of many big mining com-
panies. With the coming of gold, his
interests more and more centred round
Jo’burg, where he lived latterly, but he
was always a man with a national hobby.
For years he was engrossed with the
foundation of the S’African Union
Constitution; then he concentrated on
farming and afforestation. The high
terrain of Jo’burg, which soon kills off
weak hearts, suited him, and he was 74
when he died.
Jerry Pentland, M.C., D.F.C., in the
air again as a flying instructor at Mascot
(N.S.W.), was sent to France after only
141 hours’ flying, and had an unusually
good war-time record. He brought down
24 German ’planes and has a special
mention in Elliott White Springs’s War
Birds. He did some gold-seeking after his
return from the front, then took to
growing gherkins—there was no air force
job for him.
Visions among his friends of Bulletin
artist Unk White immured in a dungeon
in Aragon or leading an assault on the
breach at Badajoz were dispelled by this
week’s mail. Unk set out from Aus-
tralia to draw in Spain, but he writes
from Bruges that he was so charmed by
the quiet of Belgium and by the artistic
prospects of London that he has decided
to keep Spain for a Christmas treat —•
that is, if there is anyone left in Spain
by Christmastime.
Daglish, the first Westralian Labor
Premier, was a Subiaco house-agent—in
Victoria, where at the only election he
contested he lost his deposit, he was a
civil servant. Collier was a timber-
worker, then a corporation laborer.
Scaddan was an engine-driver on the
Golden Mile; Willcock, the fourth of
the line, was an engine-driver on the rail-
ways. Daglish, Collier and Scaddan were
all Victorians. Willcock was born at
Frogmore (N.S.W.). He has just turned
Melbourne Royal Show this year will
have a baronet —Renwick of Riverdale,
Bellingham, Northumberland judging
horses and dogs. Renwick is the son of
one of the big shipping and dry-dock
men of Newcastle-on-Tyne, but he'leaves
the family interests to a younger brother
and concentrates on agriculture and
stockbreeding.
R. J. Hawkes,
president of Syd-
ney Chamber of
Commerce, is just
the sort of man he
looks shrewd,
kindly, humorous.
He began life in
the E., S. and A.
Bank in Adelaide
at 17, and at 36
was manager for S.
Australia. He re-
tired in 1925, being
then the bank’s
N. S. Wales in-
spector. He is a
leading apostle of
Rotary, has been
chairman of the
N.S.W. Red Cross
and Ambulance
Brigade, and when there is any parti-
cularly tough problem to be handled
N.S.W. commercial bodies send for him
as British monarchs used to send for
Wellington.
“Emms”: Mention of the recent death
of the Duke of Grafton (B. 12/8/’36)
calls to mind how well the family mem-
ory is preserved in Grafton (N.S.W-),
which took its name from the Fitzroy
who governed N.S.W. when the city was
founded. Fitzroy, Villiers and Duke
streets are other memorials, and in 1922
the then duke approved of the City
Council using the family crest and motto
to adorn official documents. It has long
been the custom of the City Council to
cable felicitations to the Duke of Graf-
ton on his birthday.
Coventry’s drawing of G. C. Ligert-
wood, K.C., shows him as he often is
in a difficult case, putting the last ounce
into expressive declamation. At such
moments, he brings into play not only a
persuasive manner, but a histrionic gift
which seems to impart itself even to his
wig and gown. A susceptible jury might
G. C. LIGERTWOOD, K.C.
well have the feeling that if Ligertwood
does not get a verdict his life will be
ruined and the prospects of his offspring
blighted. Added to his gifts of advocacy
are such assets as a frank and pleasant
countenance and a hard-working analytic
mind. He is one of the handful of
counsel for whom there is always a dive
when big issues are involved, and he is
this year’s president of the S.A. Law
Society.
Sydney Eisteddfod put another genera-
tion of musical MacEacherns on the map
when the 18-year-old nephew of Mal-
colm of the ilk won the operatic aria
competition. The youngster has a fine
basso voice. Uncle Malcolm, born in
Albury (N.S.W.) and married to pianist
Hazel Doyle, is one of the greatest inter-
national bassos, his art flavored with a
nice touch of humor which made him
a London favorite as prime member of
Flotsam and Jetsam, entertainers. Melba
gave him his first chance when he toured
Australia with her as a soloist, and he
has sung at concerts all over Europe, as
well as making a great hit on the screen
in “Kismet.” Malcolm is a fine speci-
men of Australian, the negation of most
things usually supposed to be attributes
of an operatic singer. He plays golf off
a three handicap, swings a hefty left,
performs well with a bat and in a Rugby
scrum, and is a disheartening opponent
to meet over a billiard or snooker table.


1
m
W
1
m
m
via.
m
1
he"
m
to
m
di* ft
I*o^
apP
(ii^
itvu
in
%
mi
ti" xe
o n<
Hi
pop
he
of
m.
•Mil
T
000
f
bio
ort s
ml
000
ossf
150
lit'o s
bo
in
iitio
leas 1
ho 111
oto
,/in 11 '
Uy
tllOlf
oUS
/"
i
in
of' 11
W
not
i>n
m
OllS
TlfO
litlG>
tano
afo
bi
Id
ent
/.it
OSS 1
til'
It) O'
loV ,n
gti*
' r a**
,HC f Ijing aTII ttiofo
d < «.Ul „,Her
‘‘“'s ih" 11 b l l)( . jo""'
I
On
tin
rc
itno
tin
iil
tH at
tlvo
imm
u llll , <rua&o
eop
tin
, 1( , u'ft) „ [an^ u r A
. com^er^
Hit
by
aw
tdy
H
l-eo
sly
imj/ii
tins
iV
on
dc^
ttin
bf° a
I
be
I
s' s
tin
uiH'O
ef s
v» *
, v.v'-
by
viMl
o"
RADIO has swept aside many of the limita-
tions that were inherent in earth-bound com-
munications.
Its research laboratories look upward and out-
ward, always seeking to accelerate the sequence
of invention, continually unfolding new
methods of applied wireless science.
The work of the A.W.A. research laboratory is
having a marked effect on the development of
wireless communications, broadcasting, and
oilier phases of wireless, and its results will be
even more potent in the coming years.
It is this spirit of progress, this far-seeing policy
of harnessing the ether waves to new tasks, of
scientific planning for requirements years
ahead, that have built up A.W.A.’s prestige as
leaders of the wireless industry in Australia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
AUSTRALIA'S


Does your Will still
express your intentions?
sdf
In fairness to your dependents, you
should read and revise your will regu-
larly. A will made last year may be
altogether inadequate this year, and
changing conditions, fluctuation's of
values, variation of assets, may defeat your expressed
intentions.
Consult your solicitor and ask him to consider the
.terms of your will in relation to your affairs as they
are to-day. lou may find some revision absolutely
necessary.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us, we
jwill.be glad to discuss with you and your solicitor,
the important aspects of practical administration of
your estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
<•,951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20.000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
E states.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
BOARD OR DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir L'ennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager:, W. • Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel. Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1 -5 BI ; gh Street, Sydney
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY
For Gold and Base Metal Mines, Etc.
The following equipment is manufactured under license in our own works at South
Melbourne: —
DORK Classifiers. Agitators, Thickeners, Pumps, etc.
OLIVER Continuous Drum and' DisC Filters.
MERRILL-CROYVE Gold Precipitation Plants.
ALLEN-SHERMAN-HOFF Mydroseal “Maximix” Soft Rubber-lined Sand Pumps.
\VESTKRN-PRECIPITATION Dust Collection and Recovery Units.
Units of the above equipment have been, anjUare being, supplied to all the principal
Mines in Australasia, such as Great Boulder Pty., Gold Mines, Ltd . Lake View and
Star, Triton. Lancefield, Big Beil. Mount Isa. Mount Morgan and Mount -Lyell, etc.
BY
CROSSLE & DUFF PTY., LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SYDNEY OFFICE: Crossle, Duff & Macintosh. Ltd.. Winchcomhe House. 52 Bridge
Street, Sydney, N.B.YV.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926. . 303,032 10 p.c. = 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ „ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 53,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written off old plant, £200,000 . . 3,614,644
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,671 3,929,978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,088
1936.. 850,361 12} p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
A remarkable performance. Still, this
great iron-and-steel enterprise is excep-
tionally equipped. For the last couple
of years, demand for its products, helped
by interlocking share interests, has called
for substantial additions to plant and
equipment, which is highly efficient.
Moreover, the business is largely self-
contained. Supplies of ironstone from
the co.’s own deposits on Eyre’s Penin-
sula and limestone from its quarries,
near Devonport (Tas.), are cheapened by
the backloading of coal, drawn from its
own pits at Newcastle and carried in its
own steamers. With the expansion of
turnover, both costs and selling prices
have been reduced.
During the last term, 2,232,663 new £1
shares were issued; they brought with
them £1,597,110 of share premiums,
which was added to reserves. Of the
new shares 750,000 fully-paids were ex-
changed for the 2,700,000 issued £1 ords.
in Australian Iron and Steel. Besides
giving B.H.P. control, the deal will pre-
vent unnecessary duplication of plant,
and help to keep capital outlay and costs
in the industry down. The other
1,482,663 new shares were issued to those
on the register, one for two, at 30s. each.
Paid capital increased by £1,262,143, so
there was still £970,520 of capital to
come in when the books closed:
Liabilities.
Paid All Other
Mav, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005.336
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 862,900 729,35.3
1932.. 2,987,708 3,814,644 739,700 ' 889,788
1933 . 2.987,708 3,629,490 624,200 1.022,179
1934.. 2,987,708 3,558,307 480,000 1,190,337
1935.. 2,987,708 3,929,978 365,400 1,206,968
1936.. 4,249,851 5,941,671 286,600 1,160,646
Including debentures, outside liabilities
were reduced by £125,122. The new
share money has been used largely for
extension of subsidiary interests, includ-
ing mechanisation of the collieries,
purchase of more steamers, and exten-
sion of electrical and other equipment at
Iron Knob and elsewhere. Erection of
plant for manufacture of tin-plate has
been temporarily postponed, because im-
portant changes in the technique of that
industry are pending.
Assets.
Stocks, Book Debts,
Mining’ Metals In-
Steel- Equip- and Steel vestments,
works. ment, etc. and Stores. Cash, etc.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 5,243,725 467,797 512,871 1,903,123
1931.. 6,491,632 462,453 514,063 1,787,332
1932.. 5,335,700 441,953 513,669 2,107,787
1933.. 5,222,846 425,555 488,965 2,093,480
1934.. 5,269,943 419,788 572,500 1,934,123
1935.. 4,997,505 413,862 827.569 2,231,119
V y >
1936.. 5,600,041 856,674 5.162,055
In addition, the mine now figures at £20,000.
After allowing £615,052 for depreciation,
the net addition to the book value of the
steelworks, Iron Knob plant, etc., was
£188,684. Shareholdings (£3,537,502) in-
creased by £2,167,597 (mainly on ac-
count of the A .1. and S. purchase already
referred to), debtors’ balances (£1,247,431)
by £645,260, and cash, etc. (£377.122), by
.£118,078. Mine account is unchanged a<
£20,000, notwithstanding expenditure on
reconditioning underground workings
and surface plant at the Barrier, where
production (now about 2000 tons of ore
per week) began again in March last.
The ore is treated at Sulphide Corp.’s
mill. Shareholdings consist chiefly of
scrip in A. I. and S., B.H.P. By-Products,’
Stewart and Lloyds, Australian Wire
Rope Works and Commonwealth Steel.
The output of pig-iron, steel ingots
and coke, which was a record, has
stepped up in this way:
1927. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Pig-iron .. 343,801 153,563 521,253 607,449
Steel ingots* 353,652 195,183 552,710 663,282
Coke,, .. 356,865 167,160 520,864 585,389
■ Includes foundry open-hearth furnace.
The growth in last year’s income was
£352,659, of which £24,031 was in re-
spect of divs., etc.:
Income: 1929. 1935. 1936.
Working profit .. £795,953 £1,495,625 £1,824,253
Interest, divs., etc. 142,968 48,711 72,742
Total . . . . £938,921 £1,544,336 £1,896,995
Outgo:
Depreciation ..£417,592 £541,949 £615,052
Office and other exes. 61,854 105,704 158,277
Debenture interest 81,094 26,241 23,305
Income tax .. 45,710 200,000 250,000
Total exes. ..£606,250 £873,894 £1,046,634
Of the increase of £172,740 in exes.,
£73,103 was on account of depreciation
and £50,000 taxation. The net result
was £179,919 better at 24.4 p.c. on aver-
age capital, compared with 22.4, 14.3,
10.5, 3.4, 2.7, 5.4 and 12.3 p.c. back to
1929. The div. was lifted from 10 p.c.
to 12f p.c.
On the goldmining side a subsidiary
(Wellington Alluvials) has been formed
to work ground on the Macquarie River
(N.S.W.), and a £125,000 dredge has been
ordered. The parents’ shareholders are
to, be invited in later. Hannan’s North,
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), continues to operate
at a profit, but the holding in Enterprise,
on the same field, is to be sold. A reef-
ing proposition at Cowra Creek (N.S.W.)
is being tested.
Anticipating a further lift in the div.,
the market prices the fully-paids at
745. 9d., as against 665. 9d. a year ago
and 50s. 12 months before that. The
return at 745. 9d. is 3.3 p.c. on a 12| p.c.
div. basis, or 4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribu-
tion. Including uncalled capital, the
cover is 425. 9d. in net tangibles, mainly
fixed dssets.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £>£,£.
1926.. 133,246 10 p.c. = 84,232 49,014 185^08
Written off shares in other cos., £25,38P.. 160,528
1927.. 138,204 10 p.c. = 84,232 53,972 214,500
Written off shares in other cos., £35,000.. 179,500
1928.. 174,645 10 p.c. = 84,232 90,413 269,913
1929.. 137,898 10 „ „ 84,232 53,666 323,579
1930.. 118.349 10 „ „ 84,232 34,117 357,696
1931.. 43,762 10 ~ ~ 42,116 1,646 359,342
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14,820 2} p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 „ ~42,116 342.025
Profit on sale of Consols, £B5Bl .. 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 356,696
1935.. 76,471 7} p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 . . 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. 67,386 • 10,029 393,449
“Speaking generally, the outlook for
cement sales has never been better, yet
the outlook for the Australian cement
manufacturer, as a result of recent tariff
decisions, has never been worse” —such is
the chairman’s succinct summary of con-
ditions in the industry. In May last pro-
tection against imported British cements
was lowered by 50 p.c., reducing it to
7s. 6d. a ton. Unless the Government
reviews its decision, the British article is
to be admitted duty free from the begin-
ning of December next. This is in
accordance with the Tariff Board’s
recommendations, following an inquiry
into the industry at which Australian
cos. furnished full particulars of their
operations, while British manufacturers
declined to furnish any particulars. With-
out making any allowance for taxation,
capitalising plant at £4 per ton of
capacity, and on the basis of an 80 p.c.
production, the Tariff Board reckoned
that, on the average, a selling price of
765. sd. a ton f.o.r. Sydney would yield
a fair profit (approximately 10 p.c. was
what it had in mind) to local producers.
The Tariff Board also put the landed
duty-free cost of imported British
cement at 70s. 3d. a ton ; that was on
the basis of a c.i.f. price of 51s. 6d. a
ton, and included shipping freight at
275. 6d. less 5 p.c. Actually, the freight
on a recent shipment of 6000 tons of
British cement to Westralia was a frac-
tion under 13s. 6d. a ton; and there are
plenty of time-chartered in the
wool and wheat trade hungry for such
cargoes instead of ballast. Moreover, a
free market is apt to mean a dumping
market these days. Indeed, the London
f.o.b. cost of another recent consignment
of cement to Australia works out at
265. 6d. a ton or thereabouts, whereas
for English consumption British cos. sell
in London at from 40s. to 425. a ton. In
1935 the Tunnel Portland Co. (Eng.)
netted 41.4 p.c. on its capital, and paid
a 20 p.c. div.
Since the beginning of 1936 the selling
price of cement in Sydney has been
lowered by 10s. a ton, reducing the figure
to 90s. The full effect of the reduction
will not be reflected in Kandos’s figures
until next balancing date. Consumption
increased (it is still well below plant capa-
city), and the co., which is an equal part-
ner with Australian Cement in Australian
Portland —the last-named operates plants
at Kandos (N.S.W.) and Geelong (Vic.) —
showed an extra £1544 of profit, or 11.5
p.c. on capital as against 11.3, 4.8, 4.9 and
1.6 p.c. back to 1932. The div. was
lifted from p.c. to 10 p.c. In 1934
the co. returned 4s. a share, thus making
a relatively higher rate of dividend pos-
sible.
When the books closed, shares in other
cos. appeared at £1,005,000; this in-
cludes a million £1 shares in Australian
Portland. Debtors figured at £37,502 ;
cash, £74,500. There was £15,997 com-
ing to outsiders.
At 225. 4d. (265. a year ago) the full>-
paid 16s. shares return 7.1 p.c. on ,
p.c. div. basis. Subject to intangibles
in the operating co., whose figures are n°;
broadcast, the net asset backing is 2 4 si. -o.
per share.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Ke_
June, Profit. Dividends Reserves. serves.
£*££ " . .
1926.. 50,838 10 p.c. = 31,613 19,225
1927.. 54,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122
Written off, £6OOO .. .. •* }^’orC.
1928.. 56,073 10 p.o. = 39,820 16,253 ieT.ga->
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 • -
1929.. 59,783 10 p.e. = 49,986 9,797 12T,0b-
-1930.. 43,653 7 „ „ 35,000 8,653
1931.. 37,730 6 „ „ 30,000 7.730 143.*
1932.. 39,162 6„ „ 30,000 9,162 102,60-
1933.. 41,017 6 „ „ 30.000 11,017 163.6-4
1934.. 48,638 7„ „ 35,000 13,638 177,26-
1935.. 46,034 7„ ~ 35,000 11,034 T88,29«i
1936.. 57,884 8 „ ~ 40,000 17,884 206,18« J
The spring of £11,850 in net earnings for
the 12 months covered by the latest ac-
counts was due mainly to a better price
for wool. The co. put 23,200 fewer bales
under the hammer, owing to drought in
Queensland and dry conditions in the
west and nor’-west of N. S. Wales, which
also explains the contraction of 60,950 in
the number of sheep sold:
Woe l
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 .. 137,258 321,140 15,307
1925 .. 117,550 232,501 32.676
1930 * .. 182,221 485,958 37,243
1931 .. 186,801 618,125 26,099
1932 .. 214,120 481,507 21,901
1933 . . 253,647 657,935 24,980
1934. .. 206,277 442,078 20,447
1935 .. 233,840 426,674 25,457
1936 210,640 365,724 28,736
An extra , 3279 head of cattle passed
through the co.’s yards, and turnover in
the produce and machinery departments
improved. The average price of wool
in Sydney was £l7 Bs. lid. (up £4 6s.
6d.) per bale, and in Brisbane £lB ss. 3d.
(up £4 4s. 9d.).
After paying all exes., providing for
depreciation and other contingencies,
and rebating 20 p.c. of the commission
on all wool sold, the declared net result
was 11.5 p.c. on capital, compared with
9.2, 9.7, 8.2, 7.8, 7.3, 8.7 and 11.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was lifted a point,
making it 8 p.c.
The dry conditions and continued
expansion of the produce and machinery
sections are further reflected in a growth
of £98,104 in advances:
1920. 1928. 1935. 193 C.
Capital .. £205,755 £414,018 £500,000 £500,.
Liabilities .. 461,352 553,490 387,234 431,20 .
Freeholds .. 160,856 199,965 200,624 200.624
Plant, etc. . . 35,687 31,656 42,119 45,075
Advances, etc. 505,048 899,365 800,226 898,3:: •
Investments and 7
cash .. 21,396 21,865 11,321 11.321
Consignments 1,916 41,240 4,531
Consignments were down £36,709, the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£276,084) was £106,019 lower, and
the overdraft (£155,121) increased by
£149,989. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£482,977)
was £17,424.
Good rains have brightened the sea-
sonal outlook, both in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. At the moment the most
uncertain factor is the price of wool.
The market expresses its confidence by
paying 335. (30s. 6d. a year ago) for the
fully-paid pound shares. The return at
335. is 4.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 28s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re— Re —
dune, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 76,603 15 p.c. = 75,000 1,603 83,795
1927.. 68,572 11} „ „ 56,250 12,322 9G,12<-
1928.. 76,074 74 „ „ 37,500 38,574 134.694
1929.. 53,914 10 „ ~ 50,000 3,914 138,608
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 50.000 34,303 172,91’.
1931.. 53,471 8} „ „ 43,750 9,721 182.63
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,435
1933.. 47,761 2} „ „ 12,500 35,261 235,700
1934.. 52,165 10.7 ~ „ 37.500 14,665 250,36
1935.. 59,642 8.9 ~ „ 31,250 28,392 275.7. V,
1936.. 67,710 14.5 „ ~ 43,750 23,960 302,717
This co. hauls concentrates, mining
requisites, passengers, etc., between
Broken Hill and Cockburn (here its 36-
mile track links up with the S. Aus. .
Government railways), and has been
doing so for the last half-century. Dur-
ing that time it distributed £437,200 oi
bonus scrip, raising paid capital to
£500,000, of which £250,000 has been
{“Wild Cat ” continued on page 18.)


lli#i
Ji®
'<■
mm
I
mfc--- 1
i 4
Episodes from a Life Spent Among the
Native Tribes of Australia
In this book, Dr. Basedow relates (acts that are stranger
than , fiction. Close association with these remarkable
nomads of the North provided countless opportunities for
the writer to observe their quaint habits and customs.
It is as one of themselves that Dr. Basedow wrote this
fascinating story of the Aborigines’ lore, tribal ceremonies
and customs; pitched battle and duel; bird and animal hunt.
It is a narrative in which broad comedy, touching pathos and
tragedy blend into a living and beautiful pattern. Nobody
will ever again see all that is described in “KNIGHTS OF
THE BOOMERANG.”
240 PAGES. PRICE 5/-, POSTAGE 3d. EXTRA.
17 Pages of Illustrations
NOW ON SALE
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or from the Publishers.
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Sydney and AH States, also New Zealand
IHr
4r-
Jill
• -w
■ i
■
L 4
(HSIl 4
r i
aßinaraMil mm
liilll* & - . T K
?
i: WmMi
-
m
jMppiin
!: #1
m
m
MHnBpHHiHM
ilillti
r* I 3
W-
iflA#? %
$■ Mi .
UrDOfo T D
DJf iILtvDLIV 1 Di
l;>hj)., B.Sc.
*
PRICE
m
I
I ' I,
■1
i mm
mm:
•*
if J
ill
I*
m
JS
■
mm
m
UIL
■
li 1
ill
M
WHEm
H
n
WHWM
'I
:JP
—■
m
|jlgi
1
■
I I
*


NOBEC
NOBEL-GLASGOW |
EXPLOSIVES
NOBED
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. YV .A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Eiinited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalg-ety Sc Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.s R. N. Kirk Sc Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company. Limited.
BRISBANE. QLD.: Elder, Smith Sc Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: YV. Sc G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: .1. S. Mnnro Sc Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company* Limited.
SUVA and LAU'IOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys
Asbestos House, Cr. .York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — : Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O T
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD.. Collins House.
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. —Advt.
dsf
THE WORLD’S TOUGHEST
AND MOST DURABLE LINING
METAL FOR BEARINGS.
Stoeks in all States.
Write for “The Hoyt Book.”
HOYTS METALS
4!) Hardware Street, Melbourne.
Cent. 15(501.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. .T. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Body,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
BRITISH MOTOR
TRUCKS.
We have in stock two absolutely new
Petrol Motor Lorries made bv
TILLING STEVENS, LONDON;
which we are selling at £4OO each,
plus Sales Tax. The usual price of
these trucks is from £9OO to £1 150,
and we desire the room for new
models. Any inspection.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
returned since the beginning of 1933, the
last £lOO,OOO ( = 4s. per share) of it at
the end of 1935.
The future of the business depends
upon the life of the big silver-lead mines
at the Barrier. Realising this, the board
has set aside out of earnings £12,500 p.a.
since 1929 for the amortisation of capi-
tal. Leaving interest out of the reckon-
ing, this will repay capital as it now
stands in 20 years. Subject to the course
of metal prices and costs, recent de-
velopments on the field suggest a con-
siderably longer life ahead.
During the last term more concen-
trates and other goods were hauler!:
1930. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Goods Carried. Tons. Tons. Tons.* Tons.f
Coal .. ..108,609 8,692 8,539 10,360
Lead con’trates 363,367! 228,456 255,194 257,662
Zinc eon’trates 304,128! 203,484 225,231 288,174
Other goods . . 78,040 67,329 79,431 98,092
Total . . 854.144 507,961 568,395 654,288
* Weekly returns to 26/6/’35. f Weekly returns to
24/6/’36. ! Concentrates accumulated in previous
year owing to shipping difficulties, etc.
Gross earnings (£151,646) sprang £17,694.
Exes. (£90,716) took £8697 of the in-
crease. Allowing for movements in re-
serves, the net result was £BO6B better
at £67,710, equal to 27 p.c. on capital
as it now stands. The £43,750 distributed
was equal to Is. 9d. (up 6d.) a share, and
another Is. 3d. has been handed out since
the close of accounts.
As for the current term, the reopen-
ing of B.H. Prop.’s old mine, resumption
of operations at the British section of
the North and formation of a new co.
to work the southern leases, adjoining
Zinc Corp.'s mine, favor increased
earnings.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1932. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £350,000 £350,000 £250,000
Suu d r v
creditors .’. 33,865 33,799 36,877 50,830
Fixed assets. . 488,500 483,069 480,294 478,967
Fuel and stores 20,837 23,316 19,966 19,537
Sundry debtors 39,445 38,934 43,642 54,718
Cash, etc. .. 186,905 89,887 122,641 51,182
To return £lOO,OOO of capital and carry
an extra £11,076 of debtors’ balances,
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £71,459
and £13,953 was added to the amount
coming to outsiders. Excluding fuel and
stores, the year’s shrinkage in the more
or less liquid surplus (£55,070) was
£74,336.
At 38s. the fully-paid 10s. shares give
an immediate return of 5.4 p.c. on the
basis of a 2s. distribution. Each varia-
tion of 6d. in the distribution affects the
return by 1.3 p.c.
For the year to March 31 last, South-
ern Kinta had six dredges at work in
Malay and Siam. They turned over
10,035,400 c.y. for 3243 tons tin concen-
trates,? a recovery of 0.721 b. per yard.
Sales, etc., brought in £470,205, average
price realised being £l2 13s. lower at
£2ll 35.; costs made off with £37 15s.
per ton. Including £53,585 from sale
of buffer stocks, a net profit of £336,550
is shown, of which £134,636 (= 20 p.c.)
was distributed among shareholders;
£54,000 was added to depreciation
account (making it £81,500), and £83,000
was sent to tax reserve (now £108,000).
In addition, £lO,OOO is being set aside
annually against bucket-band replace-
ments, a quinquennial event costing
£50,000. During the year the co. added
43 acres to its holdings (now 8752
acres), and checkboring is proceeding on
two other areas, containing 20,140,000
c.y., over which options have been
secured. At balance day, allowing for
final divs., the co. had £292,049 at bank ;
property figured for £333,868 ; dredges,
etc., £467,935; other assets, £80,554.
There was £23,134 coming to creditors,
The co.’s quota has been increased by
12 p.c., making it 63.5 p.c. Tin is
now fetching around £lB6 (London), de-
spite Siam’s tentative assent to continu-
ance of restriction.
* * * *
Enterprise of New Guinea Gold and
Petroleum Development, N.L., has been
formed in Melbourne to hunt for oil and
minerals on the leases of Enterprise of
New Guinea in Papua and the Mandated
Territory. Nominal capital is £150,000
in £5 shares, of which 21,122, credited
as paid to £1 each, go to the vendor. An
unnamed British co. is “understood to
have spent over £300,000 in prospecting
for oil in New Guinea during the last nine
years.” Between 1920 and 1929 the Anglo-
Persian Oil Co. carried out a geological
survey with the object of locating suit-
able oil structures there on behalf of the
British and Commonwealth Govern-
ments. The cost was about £150,000,
paid by the two Governments on a 50-50
basis. The Commonwealth Government
recently set aside £250,000 to assist cos.
which have located likely oil prospects
in Australia and New Guinea.
* * * *
After spending about £20,000 on de-
velopmental and prospecting work, Oro-
ville, London, has decided to take over
Misima Gold Reef’s property on Misima
Island, New Guinea. The option pro-
vided for formation of a working co.
with a nominal capital of not less than
£lOO,OOO, of which £20,000 in f.-ps. goes
to the vendor. Approximately 46,000
tons of s.Bdwt. ore has been proved, and
there is a lot more similar grade stuff
in prospect. The main lode is 20ft. wide.
On the board of the new co. will be F. W.
Baker (chairman of Oroville), T. M.
Owen and R. C. Boyce, both of Sydney,
and two nominees of the vendor.
* * * * .
A promising antimony show is being
worked near Wondavale station on the
Broken River (N.Q.). A shaft is down
60ft. The ore is practically free of
arse.nic, and is yielding 56.2 p.c. anti-
mony. The last 16| tons returned 9 tons
4cwt. of antimony, which sold for £366.
ft is claimed that there is a lot of similar-
looking ore in the district. One drawback
is the cost of cartage (£6 per ton) to the
nearest railway station (Pentland), 120
miles away. There has been very little
antimony ore raised in Queensland since
1916. From 1873 to 1916 production
totalled 4576 tons, valued at £58,400.
At Mount Chalmers, Rockhampton
(Q.), a new lode, claimed to be 30ft. wide
and carrying values between 4dwt. and
sdwt. to the ton, has been located. Sink-
ing has commenced. The co. running the
Hidden Star near by is installing new
plant. Here recent crushings averaged
about 15dwt. A new mill is also being
erected at the Torilla, where 300 tons of
payable stuff awaits crushing.
* * * *
On behalf of a new co., A. E. H.
Chapman, a Queensland mining engineer
recently returned from overseas, has
taken options over several shows on the
old Yarrol goldfield, 44 miles from Mt.
Perry (Q.). Samples from large forma-
tions, up to 60ft. in width, within a
radius of a mile from the old Beehive
mine, have yielded high assay values.
Crushings at Cracow (Q.) during the
first six months of the year totalled
23,237 tons for 16,9390 z. standard gold,
valued at £134,740. Golden Plateau was
the chief producer with 15,3340 z. from
20,966 tons. Rose’s Pride was next with
813 oz. from 1325 tons. Others were the
Golden West, New Golden Mile and
Roma North.
* ■ '* * *
Owing to the rise in the price of lead,
better sales and a slightly increased pro-
duction atdower cost, North Broken Hill
has lifted its quarterly, div. from 3s. 6d.
to ss. a share, making total distributions
over the last 12 months 15s. 6d. a share,
or 11\ p.c. Over the last three months
fully-paid pound shares have shot from £8
to £9 15s. (a new peak). Last week produc-
tion was resumed at the British section
of the co.’s property, which had been idle
since the end of June, 1930. For the 12
months to that date 158,589 tons, assay-
ing 11.8 p.c. lead, 6.70 z. silver and 8.6 p.c.
zinc, was hauled from the British, where
measured ore reserves aggregate 800,000
tons. Last week-end the spot price of
lead in London was £l7 2s. 6d. as against
an average of £l5 4s. 3d. for June and
£l4 ss. Bd. for the 12 months of 1935.
* * * *
To assist small claimholders and others
in determining the metalliferous content,
value and best method of treating ore
from their deposits, the Department of
Mines in N. S. Wales has installed an
experimental stamp battery, amalgamat-
ing tables, strakes, ball mill, cyaniding
and flotation vats, etc. If they wish to
do so, owners of samples can witness
the tests as they are made. The idea is
to hasten development of worth-while
deposits, by saving the owners much time
and money in experimental work.
* * * *
Mining practice at Mt. Lyell to-day
shows what first-rate mining engineers
can do when they are up against it. A
great stretch of schist rock near the sum-
mit of. the mountain ridge which divides
Queenstown from Linda has been proved
to carry over 1 p.c. of copper. Here
quarries have been opened, and over
1000 tons of ore a day is scraped up by
electric shovels and conveyed by a fleet
of motor-lorries to a central pass about
half a mile away. The ore then drops
900 ft. to 10-ton trucks in the North Lyell
tunnel, and the electric loco, hauls it to
the mill. Costs have thus been greatly
reduced.
* * Me *
To deal with deep ground Endurance
Tin (Tas.) is installing electric gravel
pumps. For the year to June 30 113,730
c.y. was sluiced for 801: tons stream tin
and 80oz. of gold. A further ton of tin
was obtained from old tailings at Brad-
shaw’s Creek, and tons from tributes
on the South Mount Cameron and other
leases. After providing £2lBO for depre-
ciation and £3B for interest, profit was
£lOlB. At balance date current assets
exceeded liabilities by £B6l. The tin is
found to a depth of 90ft. along the foot
of Mount Cameron. The co. has
2,360,000 c.y. of ground, estimated to
contain 830 tons stream tin.
~ =F M= * *
New Campbell’s Creek Dredging
turned over 161,500 c.y. for the six
months to June 30 for 7290 z. smelted
gold, an average of 2.16 gr. a yard. For
the previous six months the correspond-
ing figures were 156,840 c.y., 5730 z. and
1.75 gr. With ground worth 8.91 d, per
yard and all-in costs at '4.85d., net profit
was £894 higher at £2364. A Is. 6d.
div, on the 40,000 ss. shares absorbs
£2550. The co. is interested in 60 acres,
depth 20ft., at Castlemaine (Vic.). The
dredge has been treating ground worked
by Chinese in the old boom days, but
is now getting into better-grade virgin
dirt. A quartz reef, assaying up to 4dwt.
Bgr,, has been met at one point.
* * * M=
Having met with no luck in Centralia,
Centralia Gold Development is now con-
centrating on a sluicing proposition at
Smythesdale (Vic.). Joint options are
also held in conjunction with Victoria
Development over two other areas. The
ground is mainly fine quartz and gravel
on a pipeclay or soft-slate bottom;
dredging depth is less than 20ft. Some
800,000 c.y. is expected to average 2s. 3d.
on the tested portion, while there
is a “considerable area” yet unproved.
Costs were originally put at 9a. a'.'yprd.
An operating co. is to be formed to vyprk
the three leases. At June 30 the co. had
£2ll in hand to meet liabilities of £5O.
•* * * *
“O.B.” sends along some Westralian
concentrates:
Wiluna hopes to have its smelter in full blast
in September. This will mean closer extraction
and better returns. Main shaft is down 1729 ft.
Cox s Find, in Western Mining Corp.’s staple,
looks like a stayer and a winner. Recently
equipped with a 10-head mill, it has yielded
£13,000 worth of gold. Developments are
pleasing to the eye.
New Golconda will shortly reach the small
but, it is hoped, regular producing stage. It
has leased and is reconditioning its neighbor's
(Lake Austin Eureka) battery, and expects to
commence ore-treatment in a few weeks. Profits
lor the time being will be put into develop-
ment.
First Hit continues to report “excellent”
results round about the 200 ft. workings.
Values up to 30dwt. over a width of 3ft. are
mentioned.
Consolidated Gold Areas, working the old
White Hope, Hampton Plains, is another of
the small fry that claims to be looking well.
No battery, however, has yet been installed to
tell the tale.
Barbican Corporation, London, has been
granted 12 months’ extension in respect of its
option over Hannans Hill Amalgamated (old
Hannans Reward), Kalgoorlie. Drilling, which
is being done by Lomah (Rhodesia), Ltd.,
on behalf of the Corporation, has given en-.
couraging results.
Shareholders of Mt. Ida, a small Perth co.
operating north of Menzies, have been informed
by the board that their mine will now pay
its way 1 from returns. About 2000 tons of
15dwt. ore has been opened up, and an addi-
tional 1500 tons of about the same grade has
been partly developed.
* * * *
South Kalgurli’s pockets continue to
be well lined. At last balance (March
31) it held unrealised bullion, £7026 ; in-
vestments, £65,205 ; cash, £67,532. Liquid
assets work out in Australian currency
at about 15s. a share. During the year
operations proceeded without a hitch, and
the tonnage treated (126,371) was the big-
gest yet. Structural geology of the lodes,
profitable ore occurrences, and possible
repetitions at depth and adjacent to old
workings are being studied by an expert.
Divs. and bonus for the year aggregated
3s. 6d. a share.
* * * *
H.E. Proprietary, a good dividend-pay-
ing holding co. with goldmining interests
in South Africa, Westralia and other
parts of the world, held a cheerful meet-
ing in London the other day. Chairman
F. H. Hamilton mentioned Wiluna, Gold
Fields Australian Development and Asso-
ciated Mining and Finance as among
the co.’s major holdings. Associated
Mining and Finance is largely interested
in the other two, and also in Lake View
and Star.


AI PORT SAID
ASPECTS OF A NEW ALLY.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Moorabie Tom”: These Sydney
papers are always discovering something
new. It appears that the Australians in-
troduced boomerang throwing to Berlin,
and that it has caught on. Sydney “Sun”
eagerly notes that the Germans have al-
ready evolved “a new type” of boom-
erang, the peculiarity of which is that
it is thrown with the inside of the bend
facing the line of flight. Also it is “cres-
cent-shaped, with a less pronounced bend
than the Australian type.” From a dis-
tant childhood I have had opportuni-
ties of studying Australian types of
boomerang. All of them are crescent-
shaped, but there are 50 variations ac-
cording to the use for which the boom-
erang was intended. Also all are thrown
in the manner described, so Germany's
application for a patent is hereby refused.
:|: * * *
“The Padre”: The facts as 1 have them.
Scene —a small holding. Husband out
ploughing ; mother doing the washing out
of doors in the sun, while the toddler
plays around. Mum, interrupted by a
tug at her skirt tails, finds to her horror
a huge snake behind her. She sees
the snake seem to beckon, much as a
dog would, going forward a little and
giving every indication that it should
be followed. Invitation accepted, the
snake leads her to the well, where she
finds another snake with its tail around
the windlass and its head under the
toddler’s chin, just keeping it above
water —the male snake doing the heroic,
while the female had acted as messenger.
Naturally mum slapped the child for
falling in.
•!' 'f- *!'
"Kelly”: The crow is sudden death on
any bird abnormality. An escaped cage
pet has small'chance once a crow sees
him and raises the “tally-ho!” One of
its own clan, if garbed out of reason, is
handled just as lively. It is a quick way
of hunting crows from a place for
a time to trap one and tie a bit of
bright-colored rag round its neck. In
about two flicks all the crows in the dis-
trict will be chasing that strange fowl.
They’ll wheel him into a handy tree
and conduct a court-martial. Execution
of the sentence fakes less time. As soon
as one fellow gives a lead the mob will
fall on the condemned and pull, him to
pieces.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Talking of zoos on
ships; in the 1917 flood on the Murray,
the old President tied up one night a
few miles above Mallee Cliffs. During
the darkness the rising river turned what
had been a bank into a waterlogged
island, the inhabitants of which made a
silent invasion over the gangplank. When
the sun rose a startled engineer beheld a
stokehold and lower deck crowded with
numerous rabbits, mice, lizards, beetles,
two porcupines, a Mallee hen, a cower-
ing fox and an odd snake or two. Most
of the beetles and mice escaped ; the rest
went into the river or into the cook’s
saucepans.
* ’ * * *
“William”: Australia's shortcoming
for big-game shooting is that only the
imported buffalo offers good “heads”
for hunters to hang in their ancestral
halls. If kangaroos had ornate horns
such as adorn many of the African
antelopes, no doubt' this country
would long ago have been rushed by
that type of sportsman who shrinks from
having to face lions and other nasty dis-
positioned beasts. Still, from Cooktown,
once the capital of China in Australia,
comes news that a new wild beast has
been seen by station-hands in the May-
town country. Description includes
mottled blue color with immense
horns and a strange, bleating cry unex-
pectedly weak for a creature of its size.
Lest this should scare the big sports, there
can be no doubt that this monster is a de-
velopment of the goats which have made
the far north of Queensland famous.
Domestic pigs which escape to the bush
quickly take on the characteristics of the
wild Indian boar, and there is no reason
why the goat gone bush should not
revert to ancestral types. In America
and the Himalayas are wild goats which
annually attract hordes of wealthy sport-
ing braves; and now Maytown offers
opportunities to intelligent promoters of
big-game safaris in the local jungles.
* * * *
“H.R.S.N.”: Just how stiff does an
animal have to be to be classed as a
corpse? The only male member of our
“Now, sir, see if you can pick Ah Ling out o' that lot!"
kelpie’s last litter was foolish enough to
get left outside on the coldest night of
the year. When we found him in the
morning he was quite dead —anyone could
see that —but the missus reckoned a basket
on the hearth would do the trick. I told
her the pup’s heart had stopped, but she’s
got a one-track mind, my missus. By
tea-time the pup was romping with his
sisters. Perhaps the missus is right in
saying I don't only look daft.
“China Straits”: Sorry to spoil a good
yarn, but I knew Billy the Cook in his
Samarai heyday and can vouch he never
had such a thing as an icebox (B.
12/8/’36). There was nothing of the
kind in Samarai then, and no ice save
when one of the E. and A. boats dropped
a charitable chunk or two. Billy’s
specialty was dressed crab. Other
Samarai caterers never bothered about
crab or lobsters, though they were plenti-
ful enough, but there was always a tasty
supper at Billy’s for favored acquaint-
ances.
* & * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Many thanks to “Plank-
ton” (B. 12/8/’36), but the only good
military record of the Rum Corps must
be allowed to stand. It is beyond all
doubt authentic. Perhaps I might refer
“Plankton” to the article on the N.S.W.
Corps in the Australian Encyclopedia. I
wrote it myself, and am certain that all
my statements are correct. So was
Arthur Jose, the Encyclopedia’s chief
editor, who knew a great deal more of
Australian history than I do. Possibly
“Plankton” forgets that the Sydney com-
panies of the Corps who left their bar-
racks about 1 a.m. on March 5, 1804,
got to Parramatta at 4 a.m., and then
chased rebels all day round Castle Hill
and Toongabbie had some apprehen-
sions of the cat-o’-nine-tails if they didn’t
march well. Their Sergeant-Major
Whittle was not at all nice in his methods
of making things move in the battalion.
* * * *
“P. Adscitus”: Pale-headed rosellas
might be rare down south, but they are
not in central and N.Q. They have a
liking for maize in the milky stage, and
wade into a crop. They are also de-
veloping a taste for sugarcane.
'** * *
“Westerner”: Talking of “Prince
Alberts,” Fred Vosper, a picturesque per-
sonality in Westralian politics a genera-
tion ago, used to tell a story of a dance
given in his honor in the little mining
town of Yalgoo. The first thing he saw
on entering the dance hall was a notice:
GENTS. ARE REQUESTED TO WEAR
SOCKS.
It was not that the “gents.” were in the
habit of going about barefooted, but
most of them preferred calico foot
swathings to socks for ordinary occa-
sions.
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: Mention of Marble Bar
in the goldmining news from W.A. re-
minds me of a glimpse I had of the old
township some years ago. It was a
sadly decayed settlement then, the popu-
lation having dwindled to 17. Lying in a
barren ironstone basin it was the ter-
minus for the nor’-west’s only railway,
114 miles to Port Hedland. The train
ran once a week to carry a little wool.
The township itself consisted of a store,
a pub, a warden’s office, several aban-
doned banks and shuttered houses, some
quite imposing two-storeyed Govern-
ernment buildings, and so many bottles
that my mate decided to give up the old
ceremony of raising his hat to dead
marines for fear of being sunstruck. The
Bar is a bottle-oh’s dream.
* ill * *
“Splice”: If all the other mug experts
have finished tying their man down, let
me slip in with a length of fishing line
or whipcord. Just a running noose
round his big toe, with the line thrown
over a rafter or similar thing. When
that is hauled on until his leg is at an
angle of about 45deg. with the line of
his body, and tied to something, he’s as
good as being in a vault. He may try
to climb up to his toe for a start, but
he’ll only try once.
* * * *
“Porcus”: Why introduce vultures and
other eaters of carrion to block blow-
flies breeding when we have our own
wild pig? He is all over pastoral Queens-
land, from the coast to the Mulligan.
Vultures would starve where the pig
holds sway: he leaves only a few tracks
on the ground, and not enough of the
smell of his victim to draw a fly from
a distance of two flips. I know a water-
hole where over 50 cattle were bogged
and died; when the pigs had finished
there were only a few bare-picked bones.
Knowing what I do of them I’d bet a bit
that quite a few human disappearances
in the bush can be attributed to wild pigs-
I wouldn't like to break a leg or lie
disabled in country where they are thick.
* * if *
“Ogom”: Jim had been at a dance
overnight, and was ploughing in the far
paddock. The day was warm, the shade
inviting, and with little fear of a visit
from the boss, who was busy rebuilding
the dairy, Jim stretched out in the shade
of a friendly gum-tree. A visitor arrived,
and the proud owner showed him over
the farm. Coming to the paddock in
which he expected to see his trusty team
turning over the sod, great was his sur-
prise to find the team stationary and
their driver asleep. He stood over the
slumberer a moment, then: “Slape on!
Slape on, me mahn! Whilst ye slape ye
have a job, but wanst ye awake yer’ll be
without wan.”
* :]! * *
“Bogaduck”: That sheep-dog which
only understood an order in Gaelic (B.
12/8/’36) reminds me of a man who
bought a farm in the Wimmera (Vic.) on
a walk-in-walk-oul basis. When he tried
to work the team, he could do nothing
with them. A neighbor solved the mys-
tery. “You bought that farm from i
German cocky,” he explained. “The nags
can't understand you. It’s no use heaving
rocks at ’em or lamming ’em with the
whip; talk to them like a Teuton and
you’ll find them first-rate.” He took the
reins and shouted, “All togedder, lads!"
and the team moved off; when he said
“Woo, dere!” they halted. A horse got a
leg over a trace-chain and stood over to
the command 'Get up, ober dere!”
and when the team was yarded each prad
moved to its correct stall at the com-
mand of “Hoop-la!” It was darned
funny to listen to the new owner talking
to his team in broken English thereafter,
but it was the only way to get them to
do any work.
Arriving in Condobolin
(N.S.W.) 1 called on a customer. Pres-
ently I found a large blue cattle-dog in
possession of the back seat of my tourer.
I courteously pointed out that it was m\
car. He merely glared at me. Making
noises with my fingers and telling him he
was a nice dog produced the same effect.
Tried with a yell of “Heel 'em up!”
he showed his contempt for an
amateur stockman by displaying a for-
midable set of teeth, followed by a series
of hair-raising growls. I moved gingerh
to the driver’s seat, but his remarks when
I stepped on the self-starter made me
desist. Many ribald suggestions were
offered by interested onlookers, who, how -
ever, discreetly remained on the footpath.
At length I decided on an enveloping
movement. Slowly opening out the rug
T had left on the front seat, I suddenly
threw it over him, followed by my 14-
stone-odd. Smothering under what he
probably thought was a cattle stampede,
he struggled from under, sprang over the
side and was last seen heading for Bogan
Gate.
“LET ’EM RING.”
Some years ago-—how many?—well, a few,
The bush held sayings never heard to-day;
To what they owed their birth not many knew
And no one cared . . . what matter, anyway?
Perhaps because the name was known so well
No bushman ever dreamt of questioning
The meaning of that comprehensive yell:
“They all belong to Tyson—let ’em ring!”
A touchy lot, those mobs of T.Y.Ts!
The rowdy, rushing sort that drovers hate.
When travelling, their passage through the runs
Was marked by fallen fence and shattered
gate. •
I lie crash of rotting timber round about
Was quite enough to start them galloping
fill someone wheeled the leaders with the
shout,
"They all belong to Tyson—let ’em ring!”
Those “mulgas” told at night-time round the
lire
Brought murmurs of “That’s Tyson to a T”;
To-day 1 heard a station-hand inquire,
“This Tyson—Jimmie Tyson —what was lie?”
I looked, then recollected as the years
Pass by a name becomes an empty thing;
That now, in jeer or cheer, one seldom hears
“They all belong to Tyson—let ’em ring!”
Well, all that’s done with, Tyson’s gone, and
those
Who tailed his rowdy beasts and spent his
cheques
Look back and wonder why it was we chose
To hold them through each trip or break our
necks.
Pride? Flashness? Nevermind; 1 only know
That very soon the cockies’ crops will spring
Where once we wheeled ’em with a “Whoa,
boys, whoa !
They all belong to Tyson—let ’em ring!”
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


“Turoar”: I was always sceptical con-
cerning these water-diviners, but, though
1 may be somewhat stubborn, I am not
mule-headed, and I am prepared to admit
I was mistaken. That was when Pro-
fessor Bendagen came along. The boss
employed him to search for water on
our place when the waterholes went dry.
I was given the job of escorting the prof,
around the paddocks and putting in
stakes where his forked branch indicated
water. We did not have much suc-
cess. Holding his branch above his head
like an Indian sadhu, he stalked around
the paddock with me tailing him up. Not
a dive did the branch make. Towards
sundown the boss came out to see how
we were going. He fell in beside the prof,
to watch proceedings. Then it happened.
The branch crashed with terrific force
upon the boss’s head and he dropped
like a stone.
* * * *
“Once Bitten”: What goat mentioned
emu meat? Blazing the trail for a
railway in gidya scrub in W.Q., I grew
dizzy trying to sort out men, pickets and
emus in the tele-
scope of my theodo-
lite. The birds pol-
ished off all our steel
arrows, with turkey-
red attached. After
a four-mile amble
back to our camp on
the dam, there were
more of them there,
and to cap it all the
ants were in our
tucker-box. I rushed
for a gun and blazed
into the mob, and
one turned a sugar-
doodle and recon-
ditioned the air for
miles around with its
dying kicks. Some
silly cow suggested
cooking it. I haven’t
eaten anything worse
since I used to be
married. We talked
in our sleep and per-
spired beads of oil
for weeks after and
trembled all over at
the sight of an emu.
One bloke tried to
cure the skin, but
the poor cow ulti-
mately snatched his
time and ended up
on a bender at a pub on the Barcoo.
* * * *
“James K.”: Talking of rabbits, what
is their normal span of life, and are there
bachelor bunnies? For the last six years
an enormous buck has occupied a burrow
in a Gippsland paddock, and is on
friendly terms with everyone in the dis-
trict. If you sit down he comes up and,
squatting a few yards away, watches you.
The paddock is completely shunned by
other rabbits, although they abound in
neighboring spaces.
* * * - *
“Creel”: A curious deep-sea fish occa-
sionally seen by divers in northern
waters is the male “kurtus,” which grows
to an average length of about 2ft. It
has a bony hook about 2in. long pro-
jecting from its forehead between the
eyes; this is used solely for carrying
eggs. The female lays her eggs in two
bunches, each about the size of a ping-
pong ball, connected by a thin filament.
When laid they are caught by the male
on his hook, and with a bunch dangling
on each Side of the hook he carries them
until they hatch.
H* •{' H*
“Clio”: Dad was showing the distant
relative from overseas round the farm,
and the visitor expressed the hope that
he might see a possum at first hand. Dad
kept a lookout for
likely trees as they
strolled along, and
presently paused by
an ancient eucalypt
with a large hole in
the trunk. “This,”
he said impressively,
“is a likely place for
a find.” Thrusting
his arm in gingerly
he felt round, but
nothing furry seemed
to be in hiding. His
effort was not en-
tirely fruitless, as a
rustling made him
investigate further
and collect a hand-
ful of neatly-folded
papers. Opening
and perusing a
couple he was so
overcome that he
streaked for home,
leaving his astounded
visitor to follow
alone. Up at the
house the 17-year-
old daughter was
listening to dad’s
opinion of herself and the jackeroo on
the neighboring station, who in good, old-
fashioned romantic style had been utilis-
ing the hollow tree as a p.o. for impas-
sioned screeds. The embarrassed visitor,
afraid to mention possums again, de-
parted without seeing one.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: When the duck season
opened on a IVlurray station shooters were
more often in danger of being hit by the
hordes of amateurs than were the birds,
some always going away peppered with
shot. By daylight all the birds would be
gone, so the sportsmen would expend
their shot on anything—trees, posts, gum-
leaves, jackasses and even sheep. But
the boss couldn’t be convinced of this
uhtil one day he found three crippled
bullocks. Thereafter he saw that all
ducks were scared off the run before
"No, you're all Wrong —hand it here and I'll show you how to
throw 'em.”
opening night, and that we were posted
at the boundary gates with guns to direct
all shooters to a place miles away.
$ * * *
“N. Coast”: Governor Murray’s diffi-
culty in ascertaining whether native
evidence was a recital of facts or the
expression of the Papuan’s willingness to
please is in line with the old-time
legends about Australia’s vast inland sea,
fed by great rivers and bounded by fer-
tile country. Every good early-day
Aussie was looking for just that, and the
native gave it to him in large doses in
answer to his leading questions. The
Papuan was more reliable when he told
you of the men with seven heads and
other monstrosities inhabiting mountain-
tops. Mambusa’s belief in these was un-
shakable. His father and his father’s
father had spoken of their existence, and
they couldn’t lie. The truth was that his
remote ancestors had discovered that
expeditions to such parts generally ended
disastrously. Many had died from pneu-
monia, raving deliriously, while others,
posted “missing,” had probably been
kai-kai'd by the more warlike moun-
tain races. Anyhow, it gave such places
a bad name, and village Ripleys over
the centuries had added spare parts to
the debil-debils to make the story go with
more of a swing.
* * * *
“Anemone”: The stonefish can cer-
tainly sting—l know, having been a vic-
tim—-but I doubt its lethal power, and
I’ve seen a dozen cases similar to mine.
Boiling rice-water and molten blood-
wood gum have had a vogue as remedies,
without much success; but I’ll plump
for an onion cut in half and heated.
Applied to the sting, it fixed mine within
half an hour. I benefited by the experi-
ence of Moorhouse, the S.A. fisheries
expert, who used it on himself. When
he put his onion under the microscope
afterwards he traced the poison right to
the finest capillaries of the outside leaves.
* * * *
“M.A.W.”: “Vario’s” eagle (B.
17/6/’36) shot near Win ton (Q.) may
have had a record wing span of lift.
2in., but it was certainly not a golden
eagle—there are none in Australia (vide
Cayley). In the locality mentioned there
is only the wedge-tailed type, recognised
as the largest in the world.
“Tauwarra”: Another shark attack on
natives in Torres Strait, proving, if proof
be needed, that the brutes’ antipathy to
“black meat” is a fallacy. My Papuan
boatboys had no great fear of sharks;
but, when freeing a fouled kellick or dis-
lodging a snagged line, invariably black-
ened the soles of their feet and the palms
“I say, when does the next train go? I've been Waiting twenty minutes!
“ Couldn't say, mate. Only bin 'ere a Week, an I ain't seen one”
of their hands before going overboard.
Experience (not white man’s theorising)
had taught them that the white flash of
soles and palms counteracted any im-
munity given by their brown skins.
Of some sharks, notably the scav-
enger tiger, they had no fear at
all. “Spose boy no humbug ’long
udukibi they claimed, “udukibi no
humbug 'long boy.” Of the hammer-
head : “That fella no savee kaikai
man; he look-out small fish, tha’s all.”
Of one species I have never been able
to identify they had, however, a whole-
some dread; and, fishing from a frail
canoe, were never at ease until we had
him alongside with a .44 slug in his brain.
Of a rich fawn color, dorsal, tail and
pectoral fins edged with black, Uduravi is
a graceful, mackerel-shaped fish, stream-
lined like a blue-pointer, but lacking the
lustrous eye and characteristic tail of his
famous congener. For speed, tenacity
and general “gameness” he is the equal
of any shark I have ever hooked.
“Hryscan”: The “rain sign” believers
are great casuists (B. 1/7/’36). The new
moon was the wrong way up, and a
neighbor cocked an eye at it and told me
there would be no rain. Three hours
later he drove by through a steady
drizzle. “How about the moon now?”
I yelled. “You don’t call this rain, do
you?” he asked in return,
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Dad, who had lin-
gered long at the counter lunch bar,
did not feel at all hungry when the
dinner gong sounded. He ordered some
sausages, however, but when the waitress
brought a liberal helping he sighed
deeply, speared the largest of the mys-
teries with a fork, and neatly tossed it
on to the plate of a pompous-looking
dame sitting opposite. “You might man-
age it, missus,” he beamed fraternally.
“I bin stuffin’ all day.”
$ * * *
“Keeran”: Bill Botts, our outer-
suburban swaggie, was in a bad humor,
despite a friendly cup of tea handed to
him by the wife. Raising his battered
lid, he showed her a half-healed scar.
“Look at that, missus,” he complained ;
“it’s all done be Alsatian wolf-’ounds,
and vicious ones at that.” “But,” re-
marked my better half, “they are under
the ban now in Victoria.” “That’s jest
why I’m bein’ bitten orl over,” he
growled as he pulled up a trouser-leg
and exhibited a fresh incision half-hidden
by a dirty rag. “Yer see, missus, it’s this
way,” he explained. “Orl th’ owners are
out ter prove that their pets ain’t
so they tells me ter go round ter ther
back jest ter prove it.” “Well,” said my
wife sympathetically, “that’s clear proof
that they are vicious.” “Yes,” said
Botts, picking up his knot. “They say
that ‘th’ proof of the puddin’ is in th’
eatin”—but, as it ’appens, I ain’t no
puddin’.”
OFF THE FLAT.
When the low grey clouds go riding on a wind
that’s wild and keen,
When a curtain hides the hilltops, drenching
all the earth between,
When the branches toss their raindrops to the
sodden earth below,
Then it’s time to yard the horses, time to
saddle up and go.
For it’s raining, raining, raining, and the
creeks are on the rise,
Rushing gladly down the gullies ’neath the
leaden, dripping skies;
And there isn’t time to linger—pass the word—
don’t stop to chat,
For the cattle must be shifted to the uplands
from the flat.
Past the tea-tree scrub and wattles, through
the tussocks stirrup-high,
Past the swollen brimming river as it swirls
and eddies by,
To the cattle standing huddled, with their
heads turned down the wind,
And the stockwhips crack and rattle as the
horses swing behind.
For the river’s rising, rising, as the rivulets
come down,
Creek and gully roaring seaward, swirling tur-
bulent and brown.
Two days’ rain and more to follow —and a
warning lies in that:
Time has come to shift the cattle to the
uplands from the flat.
Dogs are barking, horses wheeling, at the
stragglers falling back,
Till the scattered steers are gathered to the
semblance of a pack,
Plodding slowly through the tussocks to the
sliprails up above,
From the sweet green summer pastures, from
the clovers that they love.
For it’s raining, raining, raining, from the
mountains to the sea,
And the creeks have joined the river, and
the floods are swirling free.
But the horses are unsaddled. You can doff
your coat and hat,
For the dinner’s on the table, and the cattle
off the flat.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


m
Sheet
metal
m> STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY
tr Son Ltd • SYDNEY
PTy. LTD.. Melbourne,. Adelaide., Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane,
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
"More than a Famous Hotel . . . it is a Delightful Home"
For 102 years, Petty's Hotel has given service to guests. Even to-day
this fine old hotel is still renowned for its service; its comfort; and its
conveniently central position.
See the new private dining room and lounge.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(I) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .■ •> •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. . • • • • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET. E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Prafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.-
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Blowflies on the Warpath.
“Warramulla”: In Queensland districts
which have had good rains, following a
long dry spell, the blowfly has arrived in
clouds. The same has been happening
in N. S. Wales.
The attack has been so virulent that a
large number of sheep struck have suc-
cumbed within two or three days. Often
a patch the size of one’s hand is the only
sign of strike. Many sheep in my experi-
ence have had the skin punctured, and
the local swelling inclines one to the
opinion that septicaemia has been directly
responsible for some of our losses.
Every recognised method ot' combat
has been brought into action, but not
one has been entirely effective. Crutching
has proved only a temporary check. One
breeder crutched his sheep a second time,
within a month of the previous opera-
tions, to remove the maggots.
We are treating blown sheep which
were carefully jetted a month ago. Some
owners, in desperation, shore their flocks
with a good deal less than the normal
12 months’ wool. In some districts all
are busy dressing sheep that have been
blown wherever a shearing cut occurred.
With the fly making an all-the-year-
round job of it (as he threatens to do
this season), I agree with a Coonamble
(N.S.W.) stock inspector that trapping is
“the most effective way of dealing with
the menace.” The C.S.I.R. believes that
trapping considerably reduces strike
incidence.
One of the best arguments in favor of
traps is that they strike at the cause of
bur troubles and not at the effect.
Skirting Hints.
“R.N.”: Small, mixed wool lines don’t
attract the general run of buyers.
For the small man uniform lines of
even value pay best.
Skirting treatment varies, of course,
according to the flock and the fleece.
Western N.S.W. clips will produce as
much as one-third skirtings, a N.S.W.
Tableland clip about 5 p.c.
Remove all wool below the quality
of the fleece wool proper, i.e., shorter or
heavier conditioned wool or wool full
of rubbish.
Make the shoulder and first pieces of
the britch “broken.” Take the neckfolds,
topknot and wool from the jowl, and fold
over the fleece neck, then work from
shoulder to britch. Skirt heavily around
the britch, for there is the coarsest, most
burry and dirtiest wool.
If the sheep have been on thistles and
burrs make a separate “necks” line. With
wool off fallow, dust in the backs will
make the fibre weak. So make the back
wool still another line.
Ignore heavy burr or there’ll be no
lleece left.
A Handy Paddock Chart.
“Bungaree”: On the flat side of a pack-
ing-case lid or on a sheet of three-ply or
a few light boards nailed together, trace a
rough outline of the shape of the prop-
erty, then divide into paddocks, not neces-
sarily to scale, but allowing a minimum
space of about 3in. vertical for each pad-
dock.
Alternatively, the property may be
represented by a large rectangle cut up
into smaller rectangles equal to the num-
ber of paddocks without attempt at
shape, scale or proximity, but the former
method is the better.
Print the name of each paddock
plainly in the top portion of its square
and screw a small brass hook or L hook
in each below the title. The board
should be hung in a prominent place on
the wall of the station office or in the
overseer’s room.
Keep a supply of small luggage labels
at hand. Hang one on each hook on the
board and fill in the particulars of the
sheep in that paddock. Use the top half
of the tab for the date on which the
sheep were put in and where they came
from; underneath, their number and de-
scription. For instance, “From West
“ Don't you blokes realise that wheat's live bob a bushel?”
Well, Aug. 12, 1936, 3796 station four-
tooth wethers.”
The board must be kept up to date
with each move of sheep, and numbers
affected by deaths, etc., rectified. It is
thus possible. to tell at a glance just
how many sheep are in any particu-
lar paddock on the property. Even when
the overseer and his notebook are out on
the run the information remains perma-
nently available.
After-calving Care.
“Silky Bag”: The normal cow after
calving cleans up without help, and it is
unwise to interfere with her. Rarely is
an afterbirth retained or uterine infec-
tion contracted.
Such troubles mostly follow contagious
abortion infection, which destroys the
fcetal membranes. Uterine sickness then
causes the cow to expel the partly-grown
calf.
For this sort of infection, irrigation or
syringing with antiseptic warm water
does clean out the parts, but within
half an hour they are contaminated
again. So the treatment serves no
purpose, as, in an otherwise healthy dam,
lesions will disappear of their own
accord.
The animal wounded in the uterine or
vaginal wall is different —then any bac-
terial activity within the tissues is an
indirect effect, and the cuts should re-
spond to the application of medicated
oil, rubbed in by hand.
Don’t use irritant antiseptic douches.
Bad cases in which cuts enter the ab-
dominal cavity need . surgical treatment
by a vet.
When the afterbirth is held for 24
hours after calving, avoid the old, dan-
gerous practices of tying boots, sticks,
etc., to the part which hangs out, and
get to work with a carefully disinfected
pair of hands.
The fcetal membranes, never tightly
fixed to the “buttons” on the uterus, can
be skirted off the surface of each wall
in turn. There are usually 40 or 50.
When the whole membrane is clear, the
afterbirth can be slipped out. The job
often takes an hour and is tiring, but
the cow will probably be fertile soon
again, whereas, with the old forceful
methods, the cow remained sterile for
months. Sometimes valuable animals re-
ceived injuries which ended their breed-
ing lives.
The Wheat Output.
“Zedo”: Precise estimates are not yet
available, but the Commonwealth Statis-
tical Bureau thinks that 12,400,000 acres
of wheat will be harvested in Australia.
The average for 10 years ended De-
cember last was 14,182,000 acres. Any
estimate of quantity is yet awhile a mere
guess, but it should be in the neighbor-
hood of 153,000,000 bushels.
Prices have shown an amazing change.
Wheat saw 44d. for growers’ bagged
lots —weighted shippers’ average, Syd-
ney, Melbourne and Adelaide —in
January last. At the opening of this
month the price was 55.69 d., which had
not been touched since the end of 1929.
The averages for the past five years
ended December last were as follows:
1931.. .. 28.86 d. 1934 .. .. 31.46 d.
1932.. .. 36.57 d. 1935 .. .. 37.84 d.
1933.. .. 33.74 d. 1936 (7 mths.) 43.84 d.
August figures will increase this. The
lowest level since 1930 was reached in
September, 1931, at 25.03 d.
Export figures for the present year are
interesting. Japan in February and
March, when the tariff negotiations
showed definite signs of failing, imported
from Australia 3,200,000 bushels of
wheat, or a third more than in the remain-
ing four months of the half-year. And
Manchuria in February started to ac-
quire flour on this progressive scale:
January, nil; February, 2685 tons ;
March, 8749 tons; April, 5133 tons:
May, 13,593 tons; June, 16,154 tons.
Total, 46,314 tons.
Another Lucerne Disease.
“J. Want”: In 17in. to 20in. rainfall
country in inland N.S.W. a pest which
hitherto had not given much trouble, and
could once have been fairly easily got
rid of, is rearing it's head and becoming
a thorough nuisance. About half the
State’s lucerne area is affected.
Witches’ broom is a virus disease (it is
sometimes called bunchy-top, mistletoe
or spindleshoot). It usually attacks crops
from 15 months old onwards. In the
Riverina, stands four or five years old
often show up to 30 p.c. infection, and
the older the stands the wider the de-
velopment—sometimes 70 or 80 p.c. of
the crop is diseased.
The disease, in a mild form, reduces
the quantity of leaves produced ; pro-
gressing, it kills the crowns and upper-
root tissues. At Trangie (N.S.W.) Experi-
mental Farm an infected field plot has
produced 37 p.c. less than normal leal
over several years.
At the outset, plants develop an un-
usual number of fine shoots which run
up to only a few inches in height.
Attacked lucerne does not flower as a
rule ; if it does, the flowers are small and
pale. Often, after good winter rains,
there are no spring symptoms except the
abnormal number of thin shoots. It is
not yet known how w.b. spreads under
field conditions, though it has been found
that a graft will transfer it from plant to
plant. Sap does not carry infection, so
animals cannot be responsible for exten-
sion. Seed, too, plays no part in the
spread.
There is no way of getting rid of
witches’ broom without clearing out all
affected plants by ploughing and resow-
ing lucerne fields every three or four
years. A costly business on grazing land.
Putting in Cotton.
“Marmor”: Queensland Cot-
ton Board is busy handing out
seed for the new season ; these
hints may help the newchum:
Apply to the board —address,
Whinstanes (Q.) —with cheque
attached. Rates are Id. per
pound for fuzzy and lfd. for
delinted, delivered at the nearest
railway station. About 201 b.
fuzzy or 151 b. delinted per acre
is needed on already cultivated
land, but 121 b. delinted is
enough on new-burn scrub.
When ordering, send the board
a description or specimen of
soil ; it helps in choosing a suit-
able variety or strain.
A lot of growers buy fuzzy
seed because it is “cheap.”
Don’t —except, perhaps, for dry-
soil work. It stands to
reason that the cleaned seed takes up
moisture more quickly ; it has closer con-
tact with the soil. This means that even
light rains can help in promoting a
strike; with fuzzy seed, light rains are
no help. On the whole, delinted seed is
72 to 48 hours faster in striking than
the “cheaper” line. Also, delinted seed
makes for a more even planting ; fuzzy
has an affectionate habit of clinging to-
gether in the planter and going over the
top in bundles, and the crop is liable to
look as if the dentist had been at it.
Lastly, a six-hole-plate maize-planter
(Jin. holes) will put in delinted seed with
a little wangling, but a cotton-planter is
needed for uncleaned seed.
On new-burn soil where a stick hand-
planter has to be used, delinted seed is
(“Land” continued on page 24.)


WMCms i GORIUA
the SIKN6IH at 10 Men?
mi
m
c
m
S&8
- V
mi
mmm
m
mm
■ ■■ •:
m
II
WHAT THIS AMAZING
BOOK WILL TELL YOU!
9 How to Add Inches to Your Chest.
0 How to Strengthen Your Back.
9 How to Treble Your Strength.
9 How to Get Strong Nerves.
9 How to Get Great Strength.
9 How to Develop a Muscular Body.
9 How to Cultivate Personality.
$ How to Be Successful.
9 How to Attract Friends.
9 How to Do Feats of Strength.
9 How to Be Always Well.
9 How to Get Endless Endurance.
READ the most sensational book on strength ever published.
This book will amaze you with its facts —startle you with
its possibilities. You don’t know you’re alive until you get
this book in your own hands. Do you know what gives a
gorilla the strength of 10 men? Do you know why strength
and virility are connected? It will answer questions you
have hardly dared to ask yourself, and you can get a copy
FREE —if you hurry. Fill in the Coupon NOW, this
minute, and post it TO-DAY!
THE SECRETS OF MUSCULAR
STRENGTH FREE!
750 Copies to Be Sent Only!
YOU have never seen a book like this before. No publisher has ever dared publish such a
book. Its truth is glaring, its secrets are startling—“it is the most amazing book that
has ever appeared in Australia. The moment you turn over its pages you will be enthralled,
you won’t blink an eyelash until you have read every word. It is crammed full of startling
pictures—true-life photographs—startling text—amazing facts. And yet for a while you can
get this wonder book FREE, if you hurry! 750 Copies ONLY will be sent in response to
this advertisement. If your inquiry arrives too late you may never get an opportunity
again. It is NOW or never. Rip the coupon out and post TO-DAY!
These Men Started by
Reading This Book!
6 INCHES GAIN ON CHEST!
“I have now a 42in. chest, 6in. increase
since taking your course, and I have grown
all over.”—J. KIRKWOOD, C., N.S.W.
COURSE THE FINEST AND BEST!
“Your course is the finest I have ever
seen to so quickly build up strength and
muscle, and I thank you again and again
for wliat it has done for me.” —J. MC-
GOVERN, T.A., N.Z.
PUT ON 5 INCHES ON CHEST!
‘‘l have put on f> inches around the chest
and 1 inch on the upper arms. I am very
fit and well also, and thank you tor the
interest taken in me.”—F. WOOD, W.
COURSE MARVELLOUS!
“I don’t think there is a more pleased man
in this State than myself, and I am more
than proud of my body every time 1 see its
reflection in the mirror. 1 can only say it is
marvellous.”—W. TIMBLETT, P., W.A.
ASTOUNDED AT IMPROVEMENT!
“I am writing to express my deepest appre-
ciation to you for the benefit I: have derived
from your course of physical culture. When
1 measured myself recently I was astounded
to see such improvement in so short a time.”
—,T. W. STRINGER, P., Vic.
m
«
m
m
m
Make This Test To-night!
pjEFORE you hop into bed to-night try this: Strip
down to your birthday suit and stand in front
of your mirror. Look yourself over. AVhat do you
see? A fine, upstanding specimen of a MAN, splen-
didly proportioned, superbly muscled, glowing
with health and vitality? Or do you see a flabby,
sickly sort of fellow, with sunken chest,
bloodless-looking flesh, scrawny arms, neck and
legs?
WHAT I CAN DO FOR YOU IN
JUST 30 DAYS !
TN the first 30 days I guarantee to add one
whole inch of real live muscle on each of
your arms, and two whole inches of rippling
strength across your chest. 111 take the kinks
out of your back, strengthen and broaden your
shoulders, give you a wrist of steel, and a fight-
ing, powerful personality that just yells youth,
vigor and vitality all over. I’ve done it for
hundreds, and I can do it for youl
ANNOUNCEMENT!
’"THIS book is the outcome of the
requests of hundreds of men and
is being offered to men only. In
it is the truth about manhood. Why
men fail as husbands, the reason
why sweethearts quarrel. It proves
to the reader that deep down in
every man’s heart is a desire to be
strong, to be well developed, to be
admired. There are no half-truths,
no “beating about the bush. In it
are the plain, unvarnished truths.
Women want he-men —they always
have and they always will. This
remarkable book will tell you how
to quickly transform your body,
how to add inches to your chest,
broaden your shoulders, develop
powerful arms, legs, neck and back.
Between its covers is the story of
how this truly amazing concentrated sys-
tem of muscular development was discov-
ered. You can put these principles to work
at once and quickly change your body.
TEST THIS COURSE
for 30 DAYS!
VTOW you *can lost this famous course
* ' yourself—try this remarkable system in
your own home —under any condition you
like, and if it doesn’t add inches to your
chest, broaden your shoulders, develop your
arms, legs, neck and back within 30 days,
it COSTS YOU NOTHING. But you must
hurry; this offer may never be repeated.
It places you under no obligation what-
soever ; all you have to do is send the
Coupon NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
FAR SUPERIOR TO OTHER
SYSTEMS!
“I am convinced your system is the pick of
them all.”—J. T. HALL, T., N.S.W.
GAINS ONE STONE!
“I am writing you these few lines to con-
gratulate you and your wonderful system on
the way it has developed my body. My
weight has increased nearly a stone, and my
height nearly an inch.”'—G. SWAINSON, M.
Est., N.S.W.
GAINED 7 INCHES ROUND THE
CHEssT
“Before I started the course, my chest,
normal, was 27 inches, but now it is Hi
inches, and 36 expanded; truly a marvellou°
difference.”—J. MILNER, C., Norfolk Island.
CAINS 5 INCHES
ABOUND CHEST
“I am now 41i|in.
around the chest, which
is an increase of f>
inches.” —0. E. JEB-
REEN, M., Nth Qlaiul.
HEIGHT
INCREASED
“Gained two inches
in height. Yours
sincerel y.” N.
GRAVE, Malvern, Vic.
Alfred J. Briton, Dept. L
107 Pitt-s\, Sydney,
30 DAYS Amoving TRIAL OFFER!
f u|S OFFER EXPIRES
RUSH COUPOMALOHG NOW !
Alfred J. BRITON
Dept. L,
107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Name
f
Address


JU D I N C, ■
WORKING,
ROUGH COUHTRY
WEAR AND
H IK IN C
PRICES:
BLACK CALF 37/6
BROWN CALF 457-
BROWN GRAINED CALF, 45/-
for every
occasion . . .
THE
COSSACK
IF you want outstanding value
in your working boots, then
buy Cossacks. Don’t take
our word for it, but prove for
yourself that they are the
country’s most long-wearing
boot. And their appearance is
pleasing, too!
When ordering, don’t forget a
tin of English Dubbin to keep
your Cossacks supple and
waterproof. Price 2/6 per tin.
| SEND FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE. |
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘ABBEY BOOTS," SYDNEY.
W.A. 44.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
SCHUTE
BEIUUCSi
SI
A»S
4 m
IF
5.
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
A NEAT, RELIABLE PUMP
Write for our free
illustrated Catalogues.
Sent Post Free
ANYWHERE.
“TRITON"
VERTICAL SINGLE-ACTING
PLUNGER PUMP
If a moderate supply of water is required,
the “Triton” is ideal. Compactly built, it
stands only 19| inches high.
The “Triton” is practically noiseless in opera-
tion, and the smooth running reduces wear and
increases the life of the pump.
At the normal speed of 300 r.p.m. the capa-
city is 6 gallons per minute.
Fitted for lin. suction and delivery pipes.
Chain or V-belt drive from motor may be
fitted. All parts easily accessible without dis-.
connecting piping.
Our wide range of pumps of all types and
sizes enables us to supply the pump most suited
to your requirements.
M-I'licrsoits
r Proprietary Limited v ' y
51 Bathurst Street Sydney
546 Collins Street Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth.
dsf
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM KAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
' 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak ease): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
AU post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
vears free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
imperative if an economical job is to be
done, since fuzzy needs special treatment
before it will run freely.
We Can Grow Potatoes.
“Sheik Murphy”: Although Australia’s
potato output is woefully low on the
average—about a third that of the great
European producing countries and a bit
more than half that of Canada —the
R.A.S. competitions in western N. S.
Wales show that we can grow the murphy
as well as anybody when we put our
minds to it.
The average of crops reaching the
championship from 1929 to 1935 was 8
tons 13cwt., a figure not uncommon in
general field practice in Europe. This
year, the average rose to 9 tons scwt. and
the award went to an 11 ton 15cwt. dig.
Conditions on the whole were favor-
able till February, when dull, showery
weather helped pests. In the Orange dis-
trict all competitors who dipped their
seed had clean crops ; others had more
or less scabby harvests.
All the entrants began work in August
or September last year, and most of the
seed was put down in late November,
with whole seed between 2oz. and 3oz. in
weight, spaced about 28 rows per chain.
J. Moad and Sons, Fairfield, Mill-
thorpe, the winners, used Factor on a
medium red, well-prepared loam on
which there had been a rotation of wheat
followed by oats and short fallow during
the previous four years. The land was
ploughed in August, again in October-
November. Planting took place Nov. 28-
Dec. 4, with 3oz. to soz. dipped seed
dropped from a four-furrow plough in
241 rows to the chain. Fertiliser was
4cwt. 3 to 1, super, and amm. sulph. per
acre drilled in before planting. In
August, 901 b. p.a. sulphate of potash had
been put on. The field was harrowed
when plants began to show through, and
there were further cultivations in
January and February.
The method was a lesson in payable
technique ; the tubers produced were
even, good cutters, an attractive commer-
cial sample.
Old-fashioned farmers may groan at
the expense and work involved, but on
the type of soil used the yield was equal
to five times the average Australian pro-
duction per acre. And it is sound eco-
nomy to spend a lot of time and labor to
make one acre grow what it took five to
produce before.
Hints for the Farm.
“O. W. Waireki”: If you haven’t any
resin handy when an engine belt starts
to slip, treacle or slightly-moistened
sugar will do for the moment.
“Q.W.W.”: After getting a cast ewe
on to her feet, walk away in front of her.
Leaving from behind causes her to turn
to watch you, and the chances are that a
weak jumbuck will overbalance again.
“Zedo”: A lot of the sheep nasal-fiy
trouble common in spring and summer
can be avoided by frequent nose dab-
bings of Stockholm tar. Lay in a stock
for use between mid-September and
January.
“Pappamosca”: A three-ton sweet-
potato crop equals a 40-bushel maize
crop; and it is poor s.-p. land which
will not turn off three tons. Also, pigs
like rooting—use the sweets for paddock
feed, letting the grunters clean up the
crop bit by bit behind hurdles. Don’t
give them the run of too much at a time
or there’ll be a lot of roots and green
stuff wasted.
“Asplin”: Don’t wait for skeleton
weed to get a hold. Isolated plants can
be got rid of by mattocking out 3in. deep
and dosing holes with 1 pint salt to y-gal-
lon water. Cover the salt, or the stock
will get at it. When s.w. really gets a
hold, £6 per acre is not an out-of-the-
way clearing cost.
“Ek Dum”: The one parasite which
the rabbit seems to spread among sheep
is liver fluke. The best pasture work
with carbon tetrachloride during autumn
and winter can be wasted if rabbits are
allowed to stay on to carry over infec-
tion to the next season. Where bunny
lives in force, the more snail destruction
by bluestone the better; destroy the mid-
way host and there can be no infection
by either sheep or rabbit.
“Scale”: Every fruit-farm should have
its pit for infected fruit; pit disposal is
cheaper than and as safe as boiling or
burning. Pits should be at least 4ft.
deep, with only a small central opening,
I the remainder covered with flat, galvan-
I ised iron or other, safe material, over-
lapping Lthe edges a few inches and
securely fastened down. Grubs may
escape while waiting for a burn, but d
properly built a pit is a secure gaol.
“Tid Apa”: Try derris-root sprays
derris is a Malayan product, newly on
the market—against cabbage caterpillar,
onion thrips and other aphids, such as
cabbage aphis. The spray acts both by
contact and as a stomach poison, and
has the advantage that, while toxic
against insects, it is safe to apply to
edible plants on the point of harvesting.
“Vario”: Gigantic specimens of vege-
tables were to be seen at the Royal
National Show at Brisbane. A cabbage
weighed 321 b., sufficient to provide ample
helpings for 120 people. And there was
a red sweet-potato weighing 361 b.
R. M. Chirnside, who has developed a
remarkable herd of Jerseys at Mornmoot
(Vic.), has put up another record with
his Mornmoot Princess Madeira, which,
on a 273-day test, gave 14,4801 b. milk
(5.48 b.f.), yielding 7941 b. butter-fat. Last
year Princess Madeira won the State
test championship as a senior three-year-
old with a fat yield of 7731 b., and her
four tests have averaged 6481 b. Her
daughter last year was the winning junior
two-year-old with 5511 b. fat.
“Ekka”: It was asserted at a recent
meeting of the Colac (Vic.) Dairymen's
Association that 6000 tons of butter sub-
stitutes were sold in Australia in 1934-35.
Displaced butter had to be exported, and
under the existing equalisation scheme
the loss to the industry was £150,000.
Another speaker declared that half a
dozen manufacturers were making for-
tunes out of margarine.
“The 0.D.”: This is the time to top-
dress lucerne with super. N. S. Wales
experience teaches the right amount
for the locality, but a basis is
about 2cwt. per acre on the coast,
and about lcwt. per acre inland.
The value of top-dressing has been
proved by departmental trials and farm-
ing experience. Outstanding advan-
tages are heavy increase of green fodder ;
a better quality product, evidenced by
healthy dark-green color of the stand ;
generally improved condition of stand
owing to vigorous growth developed. The
useful life of stands is extended and de-
pleted stands are restored.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) What are the prospects for mixed-farmers
in Queensland in (a) Gym pie district; (b) any
other district ? (2) To what extent will the
Government assist settlers from another State ?
(3) Where can particulars of Government
scheme be had?—- 2139.
(1) Keen demands for mixed-farming lands
in Q. Suitable areas are applied for as soon
as available, ballots having usually to be held,
(o) Gympie district is closely settled, and there
are no suitable areas of Crown land in it now-
open or available for selection. ( b ) Mixed-
farming settlement is now mainly confined to
N.Q. In Clump Point and East Palmerston
areas blocks of scrub land are available to
landless approved persons. To be approved, a
person must, in addition to farming experience,
have enough capital to tide him over his first
years. Scrub lands in Innisfail, Herberton,
Atherton and Cairns districts are being pre-
pared for selection, but it will be some time
before they will be available. (2) The Agri-
cultural Bank may make advances to settlers to
improve and stock holdings and buy imple-
ments. Each application is dealt with on its
own merits after inspection of the selection.
Selectors of the Clump Point and elsewhere
will be required to effect some initial improve-
ments at their own expense. (3) Further in-
formation may be had from the Land Settle-
ment Inquiry Office, Brisbane.
* * * *
I am thinking of going into the mixed
poultry business at Griffith ( N.S.W .) and /
wish to find out (1) at what age would birds
be suitable; (2) what are the best breed of
birds; (3) cost of raising them from day-old
chicks to sale age. —2619.
(1) Cockerels’ sale age depends on the market,
but from August to October birds of 14 to
18 weeks will usually command good prices.
Later than this they would require to be 20
to 24 weeks. (2) Suitable breeds are Austral-
orps, Rhode Island Reds and Light Sussex.
(3) The cost of feeding only to the various
ages would be approximately Is. each to 14
weeks, Is. 6d. to 18 weeks, and 2s. 3d. to
24 weeks. Rearing and other costs would vary
with conditions. Raising cockerels at Griffith
for market, however, is hardly likely to be
profitable.
* * ❖ 4=
How to get rid of a white waxy substance
on the limbs of persimmon- and orange-trees ?
—2537.
The white waxy substance on certain fruit-
trees is the protective coat of the white-wax
scale insect. The most useful spray is l|lb.
fresh washing soda to 4 gals, of water. The
spray is effectively used only when young
insects are present, usually from November
onwards during summer. A careful watch
should be kept on the trees for the young; the
spray to be timed for a heavy hatch, but before
the babies have acquired a thick coating of
wax. Pruning and destruction of heavily-
infested branches or twigs will help.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Iff
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Gril!
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and WireIess-
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“It is degrading for a man to be maintained
from public funds without any opportunity to
work in return.” —Political speaker.
Why not resign the seat?
4 4 4 4
“Stone was awarded £l4 damages.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Proving conclusively that 14 pounds go
to a Stone.
“In Australia she played only small parts;
in America she is starling.”— “Sun.”
It looks as if she has been given the
bird.
4* *4 4* 4*
“Cabinet Meeting. Seeking a Way Out.”
Usually the reverse is indicated.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“On his luggage are labels of hotels in
every part of the world.”— “S.M.H.”
Evidently he has travelled from spot
to spot.
-I* «►%
How to Propose.
Take your shabbiest suit, roll into ball
and place under mattress for three nights.
On evening of fourth day don suit, to-
gether with check shirt, frayed collar,
red tie, green socks and your oldest shoes.
Then telephone the girl you’ve been going
with for years and inform her that you
have something important to ask. When
she gushes: “Oh, Perce, this is so
sud” just hang up.
Arriving at her home, push girl sav-
agely into chair and say:
“Now, listen to me! I smoke, drink,
gamble and fall in love with every pretty
face I see. I snore, am subject to night-
mares on Tuesday and Thursday nights
and I always have cold feet. I hate
spending my evenings at home. I’m
cranky about cooking, detest babies and
I loathe your mother. I earn £4 a week,
but the prospects of my continued em-
ployment aren’t bright. Consequently, I
feel it’s my duty to counsel you to reject
the proposal I’m about to make. Darl-
ing, will you marry me?”
You’ll be dead stiff—she’ll think she
can reform you.
P. O. M.C.
•J*
An Easy Victory.
The heavyweight champion paused for
a moment, his gloved hands lowered un-
certainly and a vicious snarl curling his
lips.
His straight left shot out. He drew
back as though to observe the effect:
then, crouching to foil a possible counter-
attack, he feinted with his right and
threw his left again, this time in a short
stinging hook that crashed heavily on
its mark.
Casting restraint to the winds, he staged
one of those wild, double-fisted rallies
which had made him famous.
The onlookers watched silently as
punch after punch thudded home with
savage persistence, but still the swaying
form in front of him, devoid of defence
against such fierce onslaught, remained
upright.
The finish came with a terrific right
uppercut', timed perfectly.
The champ, grinned.
“That’ll do for this mornin’s work-out
on the bag,” he said.
Nat.
•t#
Familiar Myths.
“The Magistrate: ‘You said just now he
was with a man named Pat Malone.’
“Witness: ‘1 meant he was on his own, your
Worship.’ ” — “Sun.”
My friend Bluggins used to be asso-
ciated with this same Pat Malone when
he went fishing ; he did his drinking with
Jimmy Woodsers, and it was usual for
Tom Thumb to be there. His relatives
said that Jack Ketch would probably be
his last friend, for he was always get-
ting into trouble with the John Hops;
and at last he was snavelled before he
could mention Jack Robinson.
He went to quod with a Kathleen
Mavourneen.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the record price for hide?”
—Question in Bulletin.
Will be found in list of Cabinet
salaries.
4 4 4 4
"Liquor Acts —Judge Indicates Defects.”
find it defective when it fails
to act.
•J* *s*
Touching on Evolution.
“There is an old problem which has been
solved, though people still sometimes ask it:
‘Which came first, birds or eggs?’ The answer
is ‘Eggs.’ ” — “Sun.”
It is gratifying to learn that this vital
matter has been settled.' Back in ’6l,
Charles Darwin cast doubt on the theory
in grandfather’s hearing. Grandfather
immediately wrote a strong letter to the
paper about it. Mutual recriminations
followed, the controversy reaching such
“But, your Majesty, I need a string of rubies VERY badly."
proportions that we still use grandfather’s
press-clippings for the bath-heater.
Incidentally, grandfather’s spectacular
retirement from public life in ’B2, when
he was had up for manslaughter, set
the keystone of his brilliant career. A
student of ballistics had advanced a
theory that if a bullet were fired at an
engine-driver from the guard’s van of a
train travelling at 100 m.p.h. it (the
bullet) would never reach its mark. From
a natural desire to prove all correspon-
dents wrong, grandfather took the
affirmative. Boarding the Mudgee mail
at Central he took a pot shot at the
engine-driver going through the Redfern
tunnel. Happily, he hit the fireman by
mistake, and was thus able to have the
case dismissed on a technical point.
A. S. A.
“Our aerodromes keep a careful record of
every mishap.” —An aviator.
Crash registers.
4 4 4 4
The Last Link.
I noticed as he walked about the
streets rather briskly that every time he
took a right-hand turn he extended his
right arm, and when he was about to
stop he gave the pedestrians behind him
ample warning of his intention by giv-
ing the correct motorist’s stop signal.
“Why all the traffic signals when on
foot?” I asked him. “Are you afraid
of being run over?”
“It’s not that,” he replied, “but it’s all
I have left of the car I bought on terms.”
W. P. T.
Checked.
“Well, laugh this off,” my missus said
(And I’ll admit it’s stood Time’s test),
As, scorning needle filled with thread,
She wired a button on my vest!
P.
Refaned Radio.
“A movement is being instituted lor the
introduction of higher-class English in com-
mercial broadcasting.”
“Wireless Telephony Station ME2 —
the hour, as indicated by the atelier
chronometer, is 8 hours 30 minutes 2\
seconds post meridiem.
“Is your canine pediculous? Does he
so frenetically abrade as to endamage his
epidermis and hirsute tegument? If this
be so, why not palliate his cruciation?
Why not procure a cylindrical canister
of Bipkin’s Anti-Anoplura Powder? A
judicious application of this pre-eminent
insectifuge on the putrefactive quadruped
will instantaneously averruncate the pol-
lution. Essay a tin to-day.
“The Bipkin Anti-Anoplura Company
now invite you to hear A 1 Apfelbaum
and His Incandescent Euterpeans render-
ing “My Carbohydrate Infant Is Nec-
tareous.’ ”
Gee.
4 4 4 4
“Many girls accompany the troops in the
Spanish revolution.” — “S.M.H.”
The Rebelles of Barcelona.
Let’s Be Superstitious.
“Seldom does anyone derive any benefit from
a superstition.”— “Herald.”
On the other hand, since I became
superstitious I have prospered greatly.
I had never been superstitious until
one day it occurred to me that it would
mean some months of bad luck if my
mother-in-law paid another visit to my
home. It took some time to win my wife
round ; but she agreed, and I was much
luckier than I would have been with ma-
in-law round the place. Then I decided
that it was very unlucky for me to chop
wood for the fire. I showed the wife how
it should be l’ve been growing
more and more superstitious ever since.
Other husbands should note that it is
extremely unlucky to make tea in the
morning while their wives lie in bed, to
put the milkjug out at night when they
have already retired, to buy new women’s
hats or gloves from Monday to Saturday
inclusive, and to pay tradesmen’s bills.
Still, superstition can get one into
trouble. I had an idea that it would be
unlucky to settle with my s.p. bookie,
and I told him so. I didn’t discover until
later that my horse won the race on
protest at 33 to 1.
S. Esq.
Some Little-known Facts About
Spain.
111. —Its Modern History.
When the Moors thudded in 1492
Boabdil, last of the Moorish kings, wept
bitterly as he was leaving Granada. It
was not emotion, however,' that stimu-
lated his lachrymose glands. It was the
Spanish equivalent of the “raspberry,'’
delivered with gusto by the freed citi-
zenry. The familiar berry being then un-
known, they resorted to the Spanish
onion, peeled.
Spain’s greatest period of prosperity
came with the alliance of Ferdinand and
Isabella. Ferdinand before his marriage
was noted as a man of iron will, but when
Bella got going it just rusted up. In
1492 the Queen made up their minds to
have America discovered, and to this
end sent for Columbus, a Genoese skilled
in finding new places to go to.
Actually, America was discovered
because Isabella, lying awake one night
listening to Ferdinand talking in his
sleep, her ear cocked for revealing in-
formation, heard the monarch mutter:
“Columbus—poor cow’ll go west, all
right.” Taking it as an omen, she ordered
Columbus to follow the setting sun. That
was why it took the discoverer so long
to get there, as he had to heave-to for
most of the day until he was sure where
the sun was going to set.
When Columbus returned and an-
nounced that he had discovered the
U.S.A. according to plan, Bella ordered
the Court draftsman to draw an
imaginary line securing to Spain all dis-
coveries west of 100 leagues off the
Azores. This the Court draftsman did
with an imaginary pen.
Columbus’s failure to find the imagi-
nary line again after a prolonged search
led to his disgrace. The Amalgamated
Heretics’ Association then put in a round
robin requesting that Torquemada be
given the honor of looking for it, but
Spain’s first racketeer declined, contend-
ing that his big auto business took up all
his time.
Spanish arms enjoyed many great
victories, one of the most gloriously
successful being the attack on England
by the Great Armada in 1588, in which
the Spanish fleet lost only 75 vessels out
of 129, and completely succeeded in com-
pelling Drake to abandon his game of
bowls.
Spain’s last war was, ironically enough,
with the country she discovered, and
America’s ingratitude in defeating her'hurt
the Spaniards deeply. The trouble arose
over the introduction of the jazz band
and the rhumba into Cuba, Spain hotly
protesting against the clashing of these
with the traditional castanets and fan-
dango. But America stood by her guns,
which were bigger than those of Spain,
and hot mommas displaced Castilian
love lilts. Spain, however, had the moral
victory, having got rid of a colony which
was becoming a nuisance.
S. W. K.
-I- 4* -I* 4-
“ ‘Husbands should assist their wives to clean
the eating utensils after meals,’ says a clergy-
man.”
Mr. Henpeckke says he wouldn’t mind
washing up the dishes if only his wife
would dry up.
.j.
“The Government Astronomer and his staff
have much more to do than sit all day and
gaze at heavenly bodies through huge tele-
scopes.”—“S.M.H.”
Why the telescopes?
Nescience.
"A Sydney woman has invented a new kind
of bridge.” —News item.
I’m certain the renown or fame
This paragraph conveys
My wife with perfect truth could claim,
For she invents a novel game
Of bridge each time she plays!
P. O. M. C.
Warning.
“A Court awarded damages to a boarding-
house keeper for malicious libel because an
ex-boarder had said that the meals supplied
were uneatable.”
Here is a moral for the good
Of those inclined to profit:
Men must not scoff at hash-house food
Because they cannot scoff it.
H. M.


Magnificent Coming Serial.
"ALL THAT SWAGGER"
By Miles Franklin,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner for 1936,
will appear in instalments of about 20,000 words
in enlarged issues of The Bulletin.
First Instalment September 16.
Bright, Brief Australian Serial of Real Horses and Men:-
AMATHEA
BY Henry G. Lamond
Chapter VI.
PRIMARY EDUCATION.
A FLOOD of commiseration flowed in on Kilgour
when the death of Bluff Downs became known.
Trouble did not stop at that. Cascade blundered
through a fence one night and was killed. Kilgour
brought Amathea in and turned her loose in the big
horse paddock at the homestead.
Evans sent immediately and removed his two
mares Linen Duster and Sethia, and Red Dick got
gloriously drunk. Between drinks, interspersed with
hiccoughs and profanity, he vowed he would not pay
for the repairs to the fence. He cursed the whole
thing as a dirty capitalistic trick to keep the worker
down.
Fatter Singh wasted three days looking for his
strayed bull camel. Then, with the fatalism of his
class, he took the remainder of his team and his
shoddy wares elswhere. He would get the bull some
other time. There was plenty of camel feed on
Meetucka. Why worry?
“There’s a bit of a silver lining behind the cloud,”
Kilgour assured himself with a show of optimism.
“There’s worse things can happen a station than to
get a change of stallions.”
By letter he learned what Head Office thought on
the matter.
“We note with regret that Bluff Downs has
been killed in a fight with another stallion. We
recognise, of course, that this was an accident
which could not be foreseen or prevented, and
we do not in any way attribute any blame to
you. At the present time, unfortunately, it is
not suitable to us to send another stallion to
replace Bluff Downs, even though we recognise
that the horse numbers must be kept up to the
requisite standard for the efficient working of
the property. Mr. Peter Outhwaite informs us
that he has a colt on Meetucka, by Bluff Downs
from Susette, who should now be about two
years old, fit to work lightly with a limited
number of good mares. We recommend that
you utilise this colt for a few years. He, as you
know, is magnificently bred. He should suit the
purpose. As you have no Bluff Downs mares
yet fit to go to the stud for breeding purposes,
there is no danger of inbreeding. Toolery Street,
which, as you know, is the name Mr. Outhwaite
has given his colt, could. run with the mares
which constituted Bluff Downs’ stud.”
Under the formal signature of the company there
was a pencil-scribbled P.S. in Peter Outhwaite’s hand-
writing :
“Hard luck, George. It must have been a
gorgeous fight and the little fellow died game.
I wish l could have seen it. Give Tooley a
square go. I know you’d sooner have another
horse of different breeding. I’ll try and get you
one as soon as possible. But, man, times are tight.
Now Bluff Downs is dead I’ll arrange to get
Susette and her filly here a$ soon as possible.
My respectful salaams to Mrs. Kilgour, and
kiss yourself good-night for me. — P. 0.”
“That’s that!” Kilgour muttered. And that
being that, it is that!”
The idea’s right enough in theory, he thought.
Really, it’s good. I suppose one strain won’t do too
much harm ; but I wouldn’t like to run on with it.
Locally-bred stallions in a district that has distinct
seasons, a regular rainfall, frost during the winter, and
a few other things, is right in moderation. Locally-
bred stallions in the dry west, where the heat saps
vitality, and the seasons ain’t regular, is courting
disaster. Apart from that, I’m doubtful about this
joker. His breeding’s right; his make and shape’s
right; every external part of him fills the bill. But,
I don’t know. His ma and his pa didn’t mesh, for one
thing. We’ll see.
Tooley Street was brought up from the bullock
paddock and put with the mares in Mingeri. He
behaved like an adolescent schoolboy suddenly trans-
planted into a Mothers’ Union meeting. He was shy ;
he was diffident: he attempted to hide his shyness and
fear under an assumed air of bluster. He raked up
the dust and squealed. He wheeled about him and
lashed at the dust he had raised.
When a wise old mare, mother of many, came
near him with her ears lopped, he
dropped his masculine pose: he
forgot to pretend he was the lord
of the mob, and sidled away from
the punishment which that old mare
would mete out to him. Instead of
demanding what he considered were
his rights—as his sire did —he
humbly besought favors. He was
weak, and the brood fell to pieces
under that slack reign. They divided
and roamed about the paddock in
twos and threes, only coming near
the colt when it suited their
purpose.
“He’s only a boy yet,” Kilgour
commented. “If he takes after his dad he’ll spring
them old ladies to attention.”
KILGOUR had Amathea brought in from the spell
paddock and put among the workers. She was
nervous in that strange, grown company. Odd tufts
of hair were lifted from her quarters, an occasional
mark of raking teeth along her ribs proved that the
others were putting her in her place and making her
thoroughly at home. She was run up to the yards
every morning, pairing with old Roan, the biggest and
sleepiest draught-horse on the place, standing head
and tail with him in the corner while they switched
flies from each other’s faces.
Kilgour commenced to handle her, taking that
on himself as a labor of love.
Amathea started when his hand was placed on
her neck. But there was a comforting feeling about
that firm stroking, a soothing sound about the low
rumble of words which came to her. The sweat
sprang from her - she twitched-her ears nervously;
but she was not really afraid. She had to submit —
there was no get away from it—and, being gifted
with a modicum of ordinary horse sense, she sub-
mitted.
After half an hour’s handling, when the filly had
grown accustomed to all sorts of liberties being taken
with her, a halter was slipped over her head. She
fought against that in futile protest, but half-heartedly.
Then the gate at the end of the crush was opened
and she bounded out. But even as she thought she
was free her head and neck were jerked round, and
the man on the end of the halter rope forced her
to face him. That new experience of being captive
and yet free took some time to reach her understand-
ing. She fought against it —strenuously and whole-
heartedly—without avail.
“Steady, the little mare!” The rumbling voice
continued, carrying with it a note of assurance and
comfort. “Steady, the filly!”
The man stood close, rubbing his body against
hers. He fondled and caressed her with his hands.
He walked about her, never taking his hands off her
when near her. He let her go, advanced to her again.
She tried to escape, but the trailing rope which the
man carried always brought her to him again. The
lesson was repeated and repeated, until finally she
stood to be caught, did not flinch at his advance,
even reciprocated some of the friendship offered her.
She rubbed her head against the man’s body.
“That’ll do you for to-day, old girl.”
Next day he taught her to lead. With a length
of light rope looped over her loins and dangling about
her hocks, he stood in front of her, holding both
that line and the halter shank. “T’ck!” he clicked,
pulling on the shank and jerking the hock line at
the same time. The filly leant to the pull of the
shank, and when the snap twanged against her hocks
she bounded forward.
“Steady, the little mare!” the man crooned to
her. “That’s the good little mare! That’s the way
to do it. old girl! Come on, Amie, we’ll do it again.
You’ll learn to lead in no time with this.”
Half a dozen jerks of the line made her spring
forward each time, to be met with exaggerated praise
and soothing patting. She learned to associate the
pull of the shank with the snap of the line. She
anticipated the snap by going to the pull. In less
than half an hour she was leading freely wherever
the man took her, and the loop on her loins was lying
slack, merely as an emergency.
Then kilgour picked up her. feet. Standing
beside her shoulder he rubbed his leg against her near
fore leg. When she was used to that he cleverly
hooked the toe of his boot under her fetlock. He
lifted. The first few attempts were failures. The
mare plunged away. But she grew accustomed to it.
Then the man leant down and picked up her hoof
with his hand. She fought against that. Rather,
she tried to fight. The man cunningly held only the
toe of her hoof in his finger and thumb. Try as she
would, she could not put any weight into her
struggles. That double-bent joint numbed her
muscles. She could only swing her leg blindly, aim-
lessly and without effect. She recognised the futility
of that. She ceased to struggle.
He did the other fore leg, then handled her hind-
quarters, running his hand down her hocks. If
Amathea asked herself a question, it assuredly was:
Why struggle against kindness, and why combat
friendship? She did neither.
invited his wife to the yards to have a
I ' look at the filly. Mrs. Kilgour was plump,
matronly, and to a certain extent easygoing.
“Amathea, is it, George?” she asked. “Well, if
you’ll promise to stop singing her praises to me, I’ll
go with you.”
They walked to the yards. Kilgour ran the filly
out by herself.
“What do you think of that?” he asked, placing
his hand on Amathea’s neck and fondling her.
“Is that Amathea?” Mrs. Kilgour asked. “I
thought you said she was a beautiful filly!”
“Ain’t she?”
“But she’s too ragged, George,” his wife com-
plained. “She’s too long and lean. I don’t like her
face, either. It’s too long. I suppose she’s right
enough in her way ; but I wouldn’t call her pretty.
She’s not nearly round enough to be pretty.”
“Well, I’ll be frizzled!” ejaculated Kilgour. “This
ain’t a rocking-horse or a circus pony, Nell. This is
the makings of a working stock-horse. This is the
SYNOPSIS.
This story, by one of the finest of Aus-
tralian nature writers, concerns the breed-
ing, station training and subsequent rac-
ing of the mare Amathea, whose mother,
Cascade, Kilgour, manager of Meetucka
(Q.), had bought and put with the
mares running with the station stal-
lion Bluff Downs. At lladda races
Bluff Downs progeny, prepared by
Meetucka’s head stockman Peelben, do
well, but Linen Duster, a mare. owned by
the foxy Evans, breaks down. Reluctantly,
disliking Evans, Kilgour agrees to put
her and another of Evans’s racing mares,
Sethia, to Bluff Downs. Incidental to
Amathea’s story, the author depicts the
authentic horse and general life of the
station. In the previous instalment was
told how Bluff Downs was killed in a
fierce fight with a stray stallion. Amathea
is now growing into a promising filly.


sort of thing that don’t get out in the limelight, that
don’t hear the cheering and applause, and that props
up the Empire from behind, as it were. Why, if the
poet laureate was a horseman, he’d sit down here
and now and compose an Iliad about this thing. I
can nearly write poetry about her myself.”
Chapter VII.
THE ADOLESCENT AGE.
AMATHEA was turned out in Gumboil Paddock
with all the other weaners of the year. In addi-
tion, Gumboil was used as a spell paddock for
the station’s workers, the growers and unbroken stuff
ran there, and it was the general horse paddock for
all but a few special classes. Parrot Creek ran along
the frontage, with holes lasting up to four months
after the rains. At the back was the Gumboil Bore —
a sub-artesian, equipped with a windmill, tank and
troughs.
The thirty-odd thousand acres of Gumboil
Paddock constituted ideal horse-growing country.
Rich in Mitchell and Flinders grasses and well
sprinkled with saltbush, those pebbly downs kept the
horses’ feet trimmed, chipping off pieces, giving them
a hardness of flint.
The water from the bore, though with a certain
brackishness which made it unpalatable to men, was
appreciated by the horses. It was good stock water.
The variety of feed gave them endless picking and
the change which their systems desired. The scope
of those limitless acres gave them room to expand—
to race and play, to grow and develop.
The rains came. The flies and other pests of the
air herded the horses together in one mob ; it was
torture for an animal to go away by itself. The
youngsters learned the benefit of the fly ring. They
understood the meaning of an older horse lopping
its ears and rolling the whites of its eyes. The
yearlings had all the bumptious cocksureness which
is the privilege of growing stock of any class of animal
—from mankind down. But they also assimilated a
little wisdom with it.
Trouble came to some of the older horses —those
whose skins were tender, and who had not the vitality
of youth to combat the attacks of diseases and wounds.
During the height of the fly season they developed
great sores on their hips. The mob was mustered to
the yard, the injured ones taken out and dressed with
a mixture of Stockholm tar and flour and the lot were
returned to Gumboil. They were seen at least once
a fortnight.
But the flies did not last for ever. With the rich-
ness of the feed following the rains, and the variety
of it, even they could not prevent the horses from
putting on condition and getting foolishly fat. They
could not stop the young stock growing. When the
flies eased sufficiently to allow the mob to split and
mate according to its individual and collective desires
the animals spread in twos, threes, a half dozen or
more —batches all over the paddock.
AMATHEA became mates with half a dozen young-
sters, of both sexes, of about her own age. They
had nothing to do but preserve their health and grow.
They played. They evolved all sorts of new
games. They found, by standing on the ridge just
below Corkscrew Bend, they could see a long line
of the road running from Iladda to the head station.
They used to spend hours watching that road.
Suddenly, away in the distance, a ribbon of dust would
be seen rising. That would be a car or some other
vehicle on the road. Immediately, and with no audible
warning being given, they would gather on top of the
ridge, watch the rising ribbon of dust drawing nearer.
Their eyes would be glistening, prickled ; they would
quiver with nervous anticipation and shiver with the
delight of dread. Then, when the suspense
began to irritate them, they would slyly nip one
another, kick lightly and skirmish a little.
The car, the buggy, the wagon, the horse-
man, or whatever it might be, would come into
sight and draw abreast. One or two would
break in pretended fear,
scampering away ner-
vously, only to wheel
back and rejoin the
others. Suddenly the
whole lot would wheel,
race, twist and dodge,
bucking and bounding,
each going its separate
way. They would pivot
on their hind legs,
wheel and snort wildly
in pretended challenge.
Then they would come
together again and look
for more horrors to
burst on them.
There was another
game at the waterholes
in the creek when there
was water in those
holes. The main feature of that game was to make
the water as muddy as possible, to paw and stir it to
a floating soup, before lying and rolling in it. That
was a great old game if the water was low and others
were just coming in for a clean drink.
There were a thousand games, each of them good,
but none to equal that mad race in the early morning
when the air was sharp and crisp, when any position
served as a starting place and any old where was the
winning post.
The youngsters were yarded periodically when
spelling horses were wanted for working purposes.
They knew what it was to race to the yard, prop, rear
and saueal at the entrance gates, and then take position
inside and doze placidly. Occasionally a couple of
three-year-olds would be drafted out and kept to
be broken.
Every time they came to the yard, after he had
looked over the other horses, Kilgour would run
Amethea out and catch her. If he had the time to
spare he would lead her around a little and pick up
her feet. But he always caught her, even if it was
only to pat her roughly, mumble a few words of
endearment, and, in the language of the stockyards,
tell her a tale.
DOWN in Mingeri Tooley Street was growing to
maturity. His first batch of foals from the old
mares he had in the bullock paddock were admired.
The first foals of any new horse, when they are
young, and if the sire himself has any quality at all,
are always admired.
The horse and his batch of mares were to be
mustered for the foals to be branded and weaned,
according to their ages.
Kilgour went with
Harry and a couple of
other men to bring the
stallion to the yards at
the head station. There
were thirty mares.
Tooley Street kept
twenty of them with
him. The other ten
were scattered about
the paddock in several
lots. Those outsiders
showed scars along
their ribs and torn rib-
bons of hair from off
their rumps.
“He’s got his likes
and his dislikes,” Kil-
;
gour observed. “A young fellow like him shouldn’t be
vicious like that. Susette was a sweet-tempered thing.
His sire had a temper, but he wasn’t mean.”
When the outsiders were run to the mob Tooley
Street came out to meet them. He was a magnificent
specimen of his breed, though he lacked the finish
which only maturity would give. He stood about
fifteen one, long, low, well coupled and superbly
sprung, in spite of his youth. His chestnut coat
glittered like the flames of a fire. He was every inch
a stallion as he posed in front of the approaching
mares.
Tooley Street tired of posing before his brood.
He turned to the mounted men who were watching
him. Some evil thought filtered through his mind,
and suddenly his eyes reddened and his ears lopped.
He swung towards Harry Peelben, head lowered to
near ground level, the whites of his eyes showing,
his ears laid back along his neck, and his lips curled.
He slid over the ground with an action that was
snake-like, and he swung his head in the manner
of a snake about to strike.
“This is the first test,” Kilgour thought. “And
he couldn’t have picked a better man to try it against!
Now we’ll see whether this fellow’s a real horse, or
whether he’s.an imitation of nothing done up in hide.”
As the horse swung towards him Harry loosed his
whip. It was not the twenty-foot thong beloved of
fiction writers. It was not even capable of “deliver-
ing a death-blow.” It was only an eight-foot thing,
thirty-inch fall and twenty-inch handle. That,
roughly, gave the man a radius of about eleven feet.
It gave him a whip which was fast and, provided the
man could use it, one which would do all that any
whip could do. Harry could use a whip!
Like a lick of lightning the stallion struck towards
the man. He was puzzled, and perhaps slightly
cowed, by the fact that the man ignored the attack.
When a mere eight feet separated them, he swung
aside and swept past. He squealed his anger, shuffled
his ffindauarters and lashed.
Squeal was cut short and kick never delivered.
Searing lightning bit his rump, and thunder cracked
above him. At the actual moment of impact
the man drew the lash slightly, rasping the fall
on the skin of the horse. A red weal sprang
and slow dribbles of blood formed.
The stallion bounded in the air. While
he was off the ground fire took him under the
flank and across the bare
skin of his belly, and the
snapping report of a gun
burst beneath him!
Harry coiled his whip.
Tooley Street charged
among his mares. He took
Sarah by the nape of the
neck between his teeth
tossed her to one side, lie
chopped Vashtai, and a
wound opened on her hip.
He lashed Clementine, and
he kicked blindly. He
surged through them,
brushing them aside and
chopping. He reared and
smashed a foal to the
ground, leaving the small
body twitching. He raced
to the lead and blocked
the mob. He cut out Sheba and chased her round
one wing, keeping her out when she tried to race back,
and he lifted a flap of skin from Una's ribs as he
passed.
“Hey! ” a voice roared, accompanied by the
report of a whip.
Tooley Street stopped in his tracks. Almost he
cowered ; then he slunk among the mares and hid
himself in the midst of them.
“P'sst!” Kilgour spat his disgust. “You’ve given
me a rotten taste in the mouth.”
He rode over to a tree, broke a bit of a stick
about three feet in length and idly trimmed it with
his knife as he rode across to Harry.
“Good work,” he said briefly, without emotion.
Chapter VIII.
SCHOOLING.
EARLY in March, while the wet season was still
in progress, Amathea was taken to the head
station to be broken. She was just three years
old. But for the development which maturity would
bring, she was full grown. She was a truly glorious
mare, and Kilgour, as he walked about her, voiced
his comments.
“You’re Stockwell right through, old girl. At
least, you’re what we’re led to believe is the Stockwell
touch. So you should be! You’ve got more of his
blood than anything else.”
Harry broke the mare. That was comparatively
easy ; she had been so well handled. But she showed
spirit that pleased Kilgour
when Harry slipped her tail
through the loop of the
crupper. That was a new sen-
sation for her. She kicked in
vigorous protest, and when she
kicked and stretched herself
the girth pinched her. She
snapped her head down be-
tween her knees, humped her
back until the crupper strap
stood taut as a fiddle String,
jambed her tail between her
legs, swelled her muscles until
overlying flesh hid the girths,
and in the flash of a second she
leapt in the air. She landed
stiff-legged with a jarring thud,
sprang again, turned on her side in the air—known
as “floating”—and, after a repetition in reverse, she
landed with the near shoulder tucked under. She
did not spring from there ; she just bounced, and with
a catlike wriggle and squirm landed with her off-
shculder grazing the ground. She plunged round the
yard in high leaps and, her fighting spirit roused,
roared her anger.
Kilgour’s thoughts were too jumbled to express.
They amounted to something like: “Oh, you gem!
You ain’t any flaccid nothing that submits to every-
thing. Look at the way she picks herself up when
she rises! Look at the neat way she lands! A horse
that bucks must have strength and muscular develop-
ment. It must have balance. It must be able to stand
on its feet. If it’s got breeding as well there’s no
telling what that horse mightn’t do. But it must be
clean bucking—whips of devil and devoid of vice.
This thing's got the lot. You little beauty!'’
To Harry, he merely remarked casually, “She
handles herself well, Harry.”
“Um-m-m,” Harry grunted in affirmation. “I
like to see ’em show what’s in ’em. This is goin’ to
be a good mare, Mr. Kilgour.”
HARRY soothed her, adjusted the bearing reins.
There was nothing more to be done for a couple
of hours. She had to break herself in some respects.
Harry left the yards to attend to other work.
Later, Harry drove her in reins, messed about
her and indulged to the full his fancies of what con-
stituted perfect breaking—and every worthwhile
horseman is full to the brim with fancies of that
sort. He led her on horseback, then put his saddle
and gear on her for the first riding. He mounted
her in the big yard.
The filly flinched, swayed to balance the unaccus-
tomed weight, and stood still. The man hit her down
the ribs with a short length of rubber hosing. That
made a resounding smack, hurt not at all, lifted no
hair and caused no bruises. But its unexpectedness
caused the mare to bound forward. She hit the
ground stiff-legged to commence the bucking which
would dislodge the weight on her back. But she
swayed when she landed. Instead of springing in the
air she had to balance herself. She gave a half-
hearted bound and plodded stolidly forward every
time she was urged.
“Are you right, Harry?” Kilgour called, opening
the gate.
“Right.”
Kilgour mounted his old horse, swung it into the
yard and ranged up beside the filly. He rode across
to the open gate, partly coaxing and partly forcing
the novice towards it. They went out in the open.
Amathea felt confidence in having a horse beside her,
and went more freely. They did figures of eight
about the flat. She was coaxed into a trot. When
she stretched to the canter the girths pinched her
again. She snapped herself together in a tight ball
and tried to buck. But she could not balance the
weight on top of her.
In less than half an hour she seemed to be
stretching to her work with confidence, apparently
enjoying it, beginning to recognise and respond to the
directions from the reins and the swing of the thighs.
AMATHEA went out in the camp when the season
broke and learnt to do the light work which is
handed young things. She learned quickly that it was
futile to plunge against the restraint the hobbles im-
posed ; she learnt to shuffle along in the short-stepped
gait forced by them ; and she recognised that when a
man approached her, bent double and with his hand
extended, it was wise to stand—that the man was
about to release her from the shackles of the hobbles.
Particularly she learnt the value of smoke. When
the first tinge of dawn came, and sandflies woke to
their work, then a wisp of smoke rising in the distance
was a haven of refuge. The horses would stand in
that, the thicker and more stifling the better. She
learnt to balance her rider subconsciously. She learnt
to watch the cattle she was working. Almost, it
seemed, she took a delight in the work.
Towards the end of April she was turned out for
her first spell. She ignored her old and unbroken
mates in Gumboil. Rather, on a new standing and a
('Continued on page 50.)


A Great Australian Story
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
By Miles Franklin,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner
for 1936.
Owing to its size, the big sweep of its
story and its many characters —greatest
of them Danny Deiacy and not the least
his “brave Johanna” —this splendid
novel will be presented in instalments of
about 20,000 words in enlarged issues of
The Bulletin.
First Instalment, September 16.
Look into the future
One thing
is quite
certain—you
will grow
older, and
some day
wish to
retire in ease
k
\ y "i
and comfort; perhaps even travel.
Take out an insurance policy
to mature when this day arrives.
Small regular premiums will secure
future independence for you.
/> #o Btfi
GENERAL INSURANCE C? UP
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingallo House. Angel IMaee, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street., Melbourne.
R. X. PERKINS, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Service to its customers, and the public generally,
has been the paramount consideration of the Bank
for over a century.
THE
! COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
ASSETS EXCEED £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING AND EXCHANGE
BUSINESS EXPEDITIOUSLY TRANSACTED.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
They 're Like That:-
GIRL
BY
RENCE FEATHERSTONE.
ALF drank his beer phlegmatically.
When his glass was empty he re-
filled it from the bottle on the table ;
when the bottle was empty he nodded
to the barmaid.
The girl brought the fresh bottle. She
glanced at Alf, then sideways at Ernie ;
her eyes were bright, her lips smeared
with scarlet dye.
Alf ignored her; he filled his glass
and drank, clutching the bottle within
a hairy hand. Ernie placed his hand over
the girl’s, where it rested upon the table.
“Going to the dance, Bertha?” he
asked.
She withdrew her hand and said: “My
name’s Ruby.”
Ernie nudged Alf with his elbow,
glancing from him to the girl. “Did you
hear that, Alf? Her name’s Ruby.”
Alf nodded. “I heard,” he said.
Ernie lay back in his chair, his eyes
half-closed. “Going to the dance,
Ruby?”
“Maybe.”
“Who with?”
“Maybe with my boy friend.”
Ernie ran his fingers through his black,
oily, curly hair. “Maybe I’ll be there,
Ruby ; yes, maybe I’ll be there,” he said.
Ruby watched them from behind the
bar. They were strangers and spent their
money without fuss. Alf was big, with
heavy shoulders; his face was large,
round and battered. His companion was
younger, slimmer ; his clothes fitted him
tightly, the coat drawn in at the waist ;
iiis trousers were wide, flaring into
twenty-six-inch cuffs.
ALF drank beer phlegmatically and
listened to the music. Ernie returned
to the table now and then for a drink.
After the third dance he nudged Alf with
his elbow. “There’s Ruby,” he said.
Alf nodded. “Yes,” he said.
Ernie sauntered across the floor. Ruby
was seated between a fair-haired youth
and a squat, swarthy Italian. Ernie shot
a swift glance at them before speaking.
“Dance?” he asked.
Ruby glanced towards the fair-haired
youth. He made no sign.
“Dance?” said Ernie again.
She nodded slowly. “Yes,” she said.
They moved out on to the crowded
floor.
“Boy friend?” asked Ernie, nodding
over his shoulder.
“Yes.”
He clasped her possessively.
“Who’s the Eyetalian?”
“Joe Bartelli—he's a friend of Bill’s.”
“The boy friend looks a bit shirty—
ain’t jealous, is he?”
“Bill don l
dance much,” she
said defensively.
Ernie brushed
her face lightly
with his. “I’ll see
you home, if you
like.”
“Bill's taking
me home,” she
said after a pause.
Ernie addressed
himself to no
one in particular.
“Did you hear
that?” he asked
plaintively. “Bill’s
taking her home.”
*PHE dance ended, he led her back to
. I her place between the fair-haired
youth and the swarthy Joe Bartelli. “I’ll
be seein’ you,” he said, and swaggered
back to Alf’s table.
“I’m going to take that sheilah home,
Alf,” he said.
“Uh!”
“That’s her boy friend —the pasty-faced
bloke.”
Alf nodded. “What’d he say?”
“Nothin’ —he don’t know.”
Alf surveyed the bottle for a moment.
“What’d she say?”
“Said the boy friend’s taking her
home.”
“Uh! ” Alf was silent.
Ernie danced again with Ruby. “How's
the boy friend?”-he asked.
“He doesn’t like me dancing with you.”
“Do you?”
“Yes.”
“Listen,” he said earnestly. “I’m tak-
ing you home, see —maybe after the next
dance.” He grasped her hard by the
arm.
She nodded. “All right, but not home
—we’ll drop in at Jerry’s first.”
“Where’s that?”
“Jerry Sullivan’s pub—down the road
a bit.”
“Friend of yours?”
“I know him.”
“How about the boy friend?”
“Listen. After this dance I'll tell him
I'm going to the ladies’ dressing-room—
you wait for me down the street a bit.”
“K. 0..” he said heartily.
ALF drank his beer reflectively.
“I’m taking that sheilah down to
Jerry Sullivan’s pub,” said Ernie.
“Uh!” said Ajf.
Ernie sauntered idly to the door and
down the street.
Ruby came hurrying. “Come on,” she
sdid. They walked quickly, with Ruby
glancing over her shoulder. She knocked
softly upon Jerry Sullivan’s door and
placed her mouth to the keyhole. “There,
Jerry?, It’s me!” she called. “Ruby”
Jerry opened the door cautiously. “Oh,
it’s you ; come in.” He glanced at Ernie
quickly, and grinned. “Come in,” he
said.
They sat in the parlor upon an old
couch. There were several chairs, an
old, scarred table covered with a dirty
green cloth, and several pictures of race-
horses upon the wall.
“What’s yours?” ask:*d Jerry, rubbing
the palms of his hands together. His
bald head shone yellow under the electric
light.
“Beer,” said Ernie. He turned to
Ruby: “Beer all right?”
“No” —she giggled and looked at her
shoes—“l’ll have a gin squash.”
Jerry brought the drinks. “Yell out
if you want more,” he said.
“Have a drink?” invited Ernie. “Bring
another glass.”
“Say,” said Jerry when he returned
with the glass, “that bloke of yours is
outside. Ruby ; what’ll 1 tell him?”
“Tell him we’re not here,” said Ernie
quickly.
“No,” Ruby laughed suddenly. “No,”
she said ; “let him in, Jerry.”
Jerry glanced at her quickly.
“Listen,” he said. “I don’t want no
rough stuff.” He turned to Ernie: “You
understand —1 don’t want no rough
stuff?”
“Sure,” said Ernie. “That’s all right,
Jerry.”
The fair-haired youth came in, fol-
lowed closely by Joe Bartelli.
“Hullo, Bill,” said Ruby. “Sit down —
here on the sofa. Bring some more
glasses, Jerry. This is Ernie—sit down,
Joe.”
The men sat down. Bill’s mouth was
very tight, and his nostrils were drawn
in. Joe sat on the edge of his chair.
Ernie drew out a pound note. “Bring
in half a dozen bottles, Jerry,” he ordered.
Jerry brought them in. “How’s the
dance, Bill?” he asked. “Good crowd?”
“All right,” said Bill.
“What’d you think of it, Joe?”
“All right.”
“Me an’ Alf came up for the week-
end,” said Ernie; “never been here
before.”
Joe nodded. “When are you leaving?”
“Maybe to-morrow,” said Ernie.
“You’re staying the night, Ernie, aren’t
you?” asked Ruby.
“Sure.”
“Maybe,” said Joe, “it’d be better if
you never stayed the night.”
Ernie looked at Jerry. “Did you hear
what he said, Jerry? He said maybe I’d
better not stay the night.”
“He doesn’t mean it,” said Ruby
quickly.
Jerry rubbed his bald head. “Listen,”
he said. “I think you’d better get along
now —take your beer down the street a
bit.”
“What for?”
“I don’t want no rough-housin’ goin'
on here.”
“Who’s rough-housin’?”
“I think you’d better go,” said Jerry.
“I’m not going,” said Ernie. “Fetch
in some more beer.”
“No —you've had enough.”
“Listen,” said Ernie. “If anybody
starts rough-housin’ me—Alf’ll belt the
life out of ’em —Alf Taylor.”
“ ‘Plugger’ Taylor?”
“That’s him.”
“I think you’d better go,” said Jerry.
“I’m not going—I’m all right.”
Joe turned to Ruby and spoke through
his teeth. “I think we’d better be going.
Ruby.”
“What for?”
“I think it would be better.”
She looked at Ernie. “You coming,
Ernie?”
“No—l’m all right.”
“Listen,” said Jerry. “You’d better go
—1 don’t want to get mixed up in no
quarrel.”
“Who’s quarrellin’?”
“No one —no one’s quarrellin’ at all.”
“I’ll go when I like, see?”
“That’s right—you’re all right.”
“Course I’m all right.” He turned to
Ruby: “I’ll take you home now, if you
like.”
“You’d better go, Ruby,” said Jerry.
“We’ll all go,” said Joe quickly.
JERRY opened the door and they filed
out. The electric lights shone bleakly
on the wet pavements: it had been rain-
ing.
“Listen,” said Ernie, “you coming.
Ruby?”
She glanced at the fair-haired youth.
“No,” said Joe, “she’s not going with
you.”
“You coming, Ruby?”
“She’s not going.”
“Keep out of it,” said Ernie. “You’d
better keep out of it.”
“She’s Bill’s girl.”
“She never said so.”
Joe turned to the fair-haired youth.
“Going to let this mug take your sheilah
home?”
“No,” said Bill suddenly. “No, I’m not
—l’ll fix him.”
Ernie caught Ruby by the arm.
“Coming?”
“You’d better not go with that mug,”
said Bill. “I’m going to fix him.”
ALF came idling down the street.
“Heigh, Alf,” called Ernie. “These
mugs reckon they’re going to fix me.”
“Are they?” Alf said. “That’s good —
going to fix you, are they?”
Ernie laughed. “That’s not bad, is it,
Alf?”
“No, that’s not bad.”
Alf walked between the fair-haired
youth and Joe Bartelli, using his elbows.
Ruby watched him.
“I think you’d better go, Bill, and you
too, Joe,” she said.
Alf caught her by the arm. “Listen, ’
he said, “these mugs’ll get a crack on the
jaw if they ain’t careful.”
“Leave them alone,” she said. “They’re
all right.”
“K. 0.; where you going now?”
“Home.”
“I reckon I’m going your way, see?”
“Home?”
“Anywhere you like.”
“All right,” she said. “All right, Alf."
Alf placed his arm round her waist and
they walked up the wet street, their heads
close together.
Ernie laughed suddenly. “He’s a
trimmer,” he said. “Walks up and says
‘l’ll take you home’ —just like that.” He
turned to Bill and Joe: “What about a
couple of bottles?”
“K. 0.,” said Bill.
Joe nodded.
Jerry opened the door and stared down
the street.
“Come in, boys,” he said. “Come in.”


QN
BANK
Ihfc. QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OrFlCfc, ttrtISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager— At. G. HAYMEN.
With oinces at London. Canberra (.Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and P 7
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the. World, this
Bank ofters the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
c %
e
Corona ti° n
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Winders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suei or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHONE B 7671
w*
S,MiB
GIM/IS
m
an. mblr *‘ wh, Uln
„ e P°sits, wh °J orn ' hard et V S in
-•■"'SKtasSSs
the
sums
V-
STUBBORN STAINS
Film absorbs stains from
food and smoking. To remove
these stains you must remove
the film.
■
FILM on teeth
. may invite all three
Remove film this safe, sure way as only the (( special
film-removing tooth paste* * does
■piLM should be removed if teeth are to be kept clean and sound, it gums
are to remain healthy.
It has been proved unexcelled in the way it removes the film that glues
decay germs to teeth. Other dentifrices may promise film-removing action.
But are they equally effective ? Can these other kinds remove film with the
same safety ?
In fair and unbiassed laboratory tests, it was shown that Pepsodent’s
special polishing material was the softest —and therefore safest ... of 15
leading tooth pastes and 6 leading
tooth powders. Pepsodent con-
tains no grit, nothing to harm
the teeth.
Use Pepsodent Tooth Paste
twice a day ; see your dentist at
least twice a year.
SAVE MONEY!
Buy Pepsodent inthe neic 10% larger tubes
at tbe old prices. You can't afford to take
chances on cheap “bargain” brands now
that it costs no more to insist on the
special fllm-removing Tooth Paste.
PEPSODENT
the Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
N.G368
Suspense:-
CLOCKS
BY HAROLD MERCER
MATHERS felt he must not be a
moment too soon; yet he feared
to be late. The sound of a clock
striking in a house as he passed caused
him to quicken his step, his heart jolted
by the sound. As he reached the main
street, however, he chuckled with the
feeling of a man who has allowed fear
to make a fool of him. The clock over
the entrance to the tailor’s shop showed
twenty minutes to the hour. There was
plenty of time.
What was it her note had said?
If you do not come by 11 o’clock
1 will know that, really, you do not
care. At one minute past l shall
be a dead woman. Going on like
this is no good ; and if you do not
pare there is nothing in life for me.
Eily was tempestuous enough to do
anything; but she had to have her
lesson. Really, he cared for her a great
deal; ever since he had received her note
he had been gripped by a haunting fear.
To rush pell-mell in answer to her call
would only pamper her histrionics ; she
might even laugh at him. If ever there
was to be peace between them it was
necessary to chastise her spirit by delay
until the last minute. Let her realise
that her unrestraint was a dangerous
thing.
Still, there was anxiety in his heart.
Involuntarily he quickened his step, and
as a tram clanged towards the stopping-
place he turned into the road.
With his foot on the footboard he
turned back resolutely.
“No,” he told himself, “I’ll walk.
There’s ample time. If I take the tram
I’ll be too early.”
The next moment, as the clock in the
tower of the suburban Town Hall came
into view, his heart seemed to be turned
to ice. The hands showed five minutes
to eleven.
The panic that fell upon him as he
looked wildly around for a taxi passed
quickly. Again he laughed, jerkily,
feeling the pain in his heart. The clock
across the road at the post office showed
10.35 ; as it was but two minutes since
he had seen the one at the tailor’s, one
or the other must be wrong. As for the
Town Hall clock, that was obviously
out of order again. It was always out
of order. The last time it had been
adjusted one of the hands had been
faultily fixed, so that it was difficult to
say which hour was indicated. When
he crossed the road to secure a glimpse
of another of its faces he saw that it
had actually stopped at five minutes to
ten.
As, reassured, he walked down the
hill he smiled tenderly. He would be
in time; but poor, wild-hearted Eily
would be counting every minute now.
There was a strange mingling of regret
and satisfaction about the punishment
his delay was inflicting.
SHE had made a tempest of their
lives, which, seeing how much they
really meant to each other, should have
been full of happiness.
The idea that her wayward impulses
should destroy their serenity simply
because she loved him so much —he
could have no doubt of that had
maddened him. She deserved punish-
ment that would beat the folly out of
her.
The rising warmth that was in the day
reminded him of her. It was just such
a day that they had met at Bondi.
The girl who boarded the tram hur-
riedly as he was coming home smiled ;
then he remembered her. They had met
in the surf, almost colliding as they
came in on the crest. There was no
stand-offishness about her; she talked
brightly all the way in to town.
“It’s a coincidence, our meeting
again,” he remarked for the fourth time.
“Isn’t it?” she laughed, her eyes
sparkling at him.
“I hope you don’t mind the sugges-
tion ; how about having some tea with
me?” he said.
“I’ll have to ring up home and explain
first.”
There was not only tea a picture-
show afterwards. It seemed to fall out
quite naturally ; he saw her home. The
block of flats by which she stopped
hinted that her people were well-to-do.
He had gathered as much from her con-
versation.
“There’s going to be an awful row
when I go in,” she said with a nervous
laugh.
“Do you want me to help you face
it?” he laughed.
“That would only make it worse.
Reg will be there ; that’s his car.”
“Reg?”
“He’s the man I’m engaged to marry.
My people want me to marry him. He's
got tons of money. He drove me down
to Bondi to-day.”
“The stout chap who came over while
we were talking in the surf?” Mathers I
felt some amusement, remembering the
man’s looks of annoyance.
“Yes. We had a quarrel afterwards.” j
“That’s why you came back in the
tram?”
“No. I saw you catch it and I wanted
to speak to you again!”
She laughed at him and fled into the
flats. After that he doubted whether she
would be at the appointed meeting-place
next day ; but she came with an eager
step, a face that was all brightness.
T T was the interference that came to
1 their romance that day that precipi-
tated matters.
They had been wandering together
along a quiet road that led towards her
home when the car he had seen on the j
previous night drew up sharply beside
the pavement and Reg, furious of face,
stood before them.
“What’s the meaning of all this?” he
demanded. “Do you know that this lady
is engaged to marry me?”
“I’m not. 1 broke the engagement!”
she said quickly. She had already told
Mathers about the row.
“It’s a matter, 1 suppose, in which the
lady can please herself,” he suggested.
Mathers heard himself described as a
penniless vagabond. He had laughed.
He was not wealthy, of course, but he
was neither penniless nor a vagabond.
Reg had finally left them, discomfited.
“Did you mean that that we were
going to be married?” he heard Eily
breathing into his ear as if she fdund
rapture in the thought. He had said it,
he remembered, in defiance of Reg ; her
acceptance of it was a trifle dismaying.
“Eily, I have nothing to offer com-
pared with what you’re used to.”
“What does it matter?” she had
returned. “All I want is you. I knew
that the moment I saw you.”
J T was all very amazing. Mathers
' told himself afterwards that he
ought to have known what to expect;
the price of such a passion as Eily's
was turbulence. She had sacrificed in
a moment everything for him ; it was
not to be wondered at if their own
peace was sometimes sacrificed on the
same altar.
She would cling to him almost exult-
ingly at the end of one of their quarrels.
“It is almost worth while to have a
quarrel,” she had told him. “It is so
beautiful to make it up again.”
That irritated him. Sometimes he felt
that she was impossible to live with;
yet there was still the flattering obsession
of her love for him.
It was the chilling thought that all this
warm impulse, this passionate wayward-
ness, might be frozen in death that
caused Mathers to quicken his step
again involuntarily. The clock in the
produce-store showed 10.40. He must
have walked very quickly.
He sauntered for a time. The only
hope of peace in their lives was that she
should suffer her lesson to the last
moment. v
His heart jumped again. The clock
in the little refreshment-shop showed
less than five minutes to eleven! I
He was breaking into a run, and the
perspiration, feeling cold with his fear,;
was streaming from his face as he
reached Taylor-square. Two clocks
there reassured him. The one above the
hotel gave him nine minutes to spare ;
the one at the tram-stop a minute
longer.
“Confound those clocks!” Mathers
wondered how many tragedies their
warring lies had wrought; but that
wonder did not move him from his
iQoiUinued on next page.)


Jin amazing
new Swan Pen
%
Op
op
'l
%
%
to
*4
*4
ALL progressive writers will want to own
1 x this wonderful new invention! See for
yourself how much ink it holds, how it shows
you the ink through a special ‘ observation
window.’ Do this at any good Stationers or
Jewellers to-day!
Prices .—The new VISOFIL (‘ Big-fill ’) Swan, 32/6.
Ladies' Size 27/6. Leverless (‘ Quick-fill ’) Swan
from 21/-. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poyn t Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney,
THE VISOFIL
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
■ALWAYS USE 'SWAN'INK
i
A. 3.36
dsf
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run, *
LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
,!!)/> miles in 7A hours.
London & North Eastern Hailway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, I’HI UP & CO.. UTD.
: Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
MEhori», theasE
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FRO A “THE BULLETIN," Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, V/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. ItAWNSLiKV MOSS, Chairman. K. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
resolve to exact the ultimate minute of
Eily’s punishment. He would catch her
exactly at the moment of despair. This
time he hoped the reconciliation would
be final,
The tram clock should be right, yet
in spite of its reassurance he felt like
one who was walking on the brink of
a precipice. He was gambling with
minutes, feeling that the gamble was
necessary to win future happiness; but
the strain was heavy.
His faith in the tram clock could not
fend off a fresh shock when a clock in
a jeweller’s window indicated three
minutes to the hour; his hurry died out
at the sight of another which gave him
nine minutes.
He had plenty of time, even though
this clock, too, was wrong. He had
reached the hotel which stood on the
corner within a hundred yards of the
cheap residential where Eily lived. He
pushed one of the doors ajar to look at
the clock on the bar wall.
A full four minutes yet. Mathers
hesitated; then, gripping himself, he
walked inside and ordered a drink.
“fV N G, dong, ding, dong- dong
VJ ding” The big G.P O clock
from the heart of the city struck the
hour. The sound of the peal fell on his
heart like a sledge-hammer.
‘‘Dong, ding. Ding, dong, dong,
ding” ~
Mathers was in the street, his feet
pounding on the pavement, as the peal,
as if mockingly, sounded the last
i ~,
Dong. Dong. Dong
Ihe hour was booming out remorse-
lessly. Mathers's feet seemed weighted
with lead, hard to lift from the ground,
Damn the lying clock in 'the hotel!
Damn his pig-headed delay to the last
moment! Poor little broken-hearted
Eily
“Dong!” With a quivering note the
clock finished its count of the hour
It was like a note of doom,
He was at the house now, at last. But
the sound of the chimes had died into
silence. The door was open and he
rushed in. An astonished residential-
keeper barred his way.
“Mrs. Mathers” he demanded, his
voice coming in painful gasps. “Which
flat?”
“Number five, first floor. But
what” He pushed her aside and
tore up the stairs. He beat on a door,
calling “Eily! Eily darling! ” and
rattled and pushed at the door-handle,
A frenzy gripped him; ignoring the
landlady, who had followed him up the
stairs, he heaved his weight against the
door. And again.
With a crash of rending wood the
do 9 r yielded and he was in the flat,
"Eily!” he called .. .
He found her on the bed. There was
froth on her lips and a distorted look of
a § ony on her P rett V face > despair in
her starm S e y es - Beside her on the
f 0 1 ve l r,^ t was the httle bottle with the red
a^e *hat m£ ant poison,
He grasped her wrist to feel for her
P u l s e, nd Ih e P he saw the wristlet
watch. It had been his gift to her—a
f eap thing m ° ney
th blU never
lts cheapness^ he.possibility °f tragedy in
The hands showed 11.20.
As he stood there, stunned, he seemed
to be surrounded by clocks, their faces
all showing different times, laughing at
him on all sides, mocking him!
Skinny Hazlitt: “Trotters Ain’t Racehorses” :-
SPAPE THE ROD
BY A.C.HEADLEY.
££ A CCORDIN’ to Mimi,” said
Z\ Skinny, sending the red into the
x top pocket, “it’s a snack. All we
gotter do is find a couple of quid to
enter the horse in the right races, an’
what comes next is cigar-smokin’ and
turkey dinners. It ain’t like ’avin’ a real
racehorse neither. Trotters ain’t race-
horses. There was one I read about the
other day that did all its trainin’ between
the shafts of a milk-cart. Came out an’
won races, too.”
I finished chalking my cue. “Who is
this Mimi, anyway?” I said.
“It don’t matter,” said Skinny. “She's
just a frien’, an’ natu’lly she’ll want a
cut. That’s all she’s doin’ it for.” He
put his cue in the rack. “What about it,
Scut? We’re all cashed up, an’ you know
the old one about no speculatin’ no accu-
mulatin’.”
“I don’t like the speculation,” said I.
“What is it, anyway? This Mimi of yours
knows an old girl who’s got a trotter,
and Mimi thinks it’s pretty good. What’s
she know about trotters, anyway?”
“Enough,” said Skinny.
“Well,” said I, “it don’t sound too good
to me seeing that it can’t seem to win
races.”
Skinny pushed his hat on to the back
of his head. “That’s the beauty of it,”
he said. “The old lady races the thing
herself whenever she can find a show to
enter it in. It gits about forty yards start
an’ it don’t run nowhere. An’ why—
because she won’t let the boy use the
whip ; an’ the thing ain’t so dumb that
it wants to git somewhere in a hurry
when there ain’t no sense in it.”
“And you say that Mimi’s seen what
the whip can do to it?”
Skinny nodded.
“She reckons it could have lapped itself
and won runnin’ away. The boy that
looks after it took ’er out one mornin\
Mimi says all we gotter do is kid the
old lady into lettin’ us handle the horse,
an’ tell ’er we’re members of the
R.S.P.C.A., an’ ’ow we fought a man
once for Hoggin’ a horse. It’s a snack
all right. We can let the thing coast
around for a while whenever the old
lady’s about, an’ soon’s we get it in a
race we slip a whip into the driver’s ’ands.
We might only git it for one race, but
that oughter be enough. We oughter git
tens, about our money. It can’t miss,
Scut.”
| T’S indecent the way the old ladies
1 fall for the line Skinny hands out.
They always seem to get the idea that
their sons would have been like him if
they hadn’t been caught burgling the rec-
tory when they were nineteen. Inside a
week Skinny was a bosom friend of the
woman who owned the horse. Her name
was Mrs. Keeler. She was a small, egg-
shell kind of woman, and Skinny had
probed most of the history of the horse
out of her before he’d known her ten
minutes. How it was the one thing she’d
kept out of her husband’s stable.
Mimi and I had nice long talks about
it. Mimi looked after the bar in the
town’s only pub. Except that she was a
little plump there was nothing wrong
with Mimi. And at any rate she had a
dimple that made up for it. It stopped
me wondering why the boy had been so
keen to show her what an expert he was
with horses. That was all right. I got
on well with Mimi and Skinny got on
well with the old lady.
The only trouble with the whole busi-
ness was that it was in the bush. I can’t
feel at home in these little one-pub burgs.
I miss the tramstraps, and 1 can’t get
used to calling a corner a corner if 1
can't see a pub there.
I was glad Skinny didn’t take too long
to get wound up. In a couple of days Mrs.
Keeler was spending most of her time
over a hot oven just because Skinny had
mentioned that he hadn’t tasted apple-
pie like hers. He would have jobbed me
if I’d mentioned apples at the end of the
second week. But by that time Mrs.
Keeler was beginning to agree that exer-
cise was the only thing to keep a horse
in good nick.
“It’s invaluable,” said Skinny, staring
through the glasses, while this horse, a
thing they called Pretty Sunrise, went
through the trotting motions of a
draught horse. It was running in a gig
that was another thing she’d saved out
of the old man’s stable. 1 didn’t feel
100 happy about the coin Skinny had
said we were going to spend on its debut.
1 could think of lots better ways of wast-
ing money. Most
of the time the
thing didn’t even
strike its hobbles.
Only the old
lady and Skinny
seemed to be
pleased about it.
She beamed at
him, and he
beamed at her.
"Lovely piece of horseflesh,” he said.
There was an apple-pie look in Mrs.
Keeler’s eye when she smiled. “I’m so
glad,” she said.
'~P HE next morning we were up bright
I and early. Mimi had fixed it up with
the boy for a private show-off. The old
lady wouldn’t be up for an hour or so,
so everything was jake. Out behind the
town there was an old track, and some-
time about dawn we were all gathered
around the rails. This time there was a
whip, and the boy let her have it.
You never saw such a change. The
track was all measured off, and when the
boy loafed her back after the circuit
Skinny showed us the watch. If I hadn’t
seen the run I wouldn’t have believed it.
There wasn’t a trotter I’d seen that
could give her twenty yards start, let
alone forty.
“What’d I tell you?” said Mimi.
1 WAS with Skinny when he put the
t proposition.
“Life is funny,” he said while the old
lady tugged a weed out of the garden. “1
have money, position, almost all I could
wish for ; but am I happy?”
That straightened the old lady up. “Is
anything the matter?” she said, looking
as if she was wondering if the last apples
had been too green.
“All my life,” said Skinny, “I’ve been
swayed by the call of the turf, thrilled
by the hoofbeats of thoroughbreds. The
sport of kings. Ah, Mrs. Keeler, you
should be happy.”
“I?” said the old lady.
Skinny played all round the question.
“If only I had a horse like Pretty Sun-
rise,” he said. “You wouldn’t like to
sell her?”
It was Skinny’s idea to buy the horse,
and he stuck to it even after Mimi had
spent the best part of half an hour try-
ing to tell him there wasn’t a chance.
Mimi was right. The old lady looked a
bit ashamed of herself and then said:
“I’m very sorry, Mr. Hazlitt; I promised
Albert before he died.”
“I was afraid you wouldn’t sell,” said
Skinny. “It’s a pity, because, properly
trained, Pretty Sunrise might develop into
a champion. At least that is the opinion
of my friend here, Scut, a man who has
had considerable experience with the
handlin’ of trottin’ horses. Right, Scut?”
“Sure,” said I.
“I’m amazed,” said Skinny, “that you
don’t race Pretty Sunrise yourself.”
“But I do,” said Mrs. Keeler. “I had
her in for Post’s Better Biscuit Handicap
at the Easter Show.”
“I mean real trottin’ races,” said
Skinny, “where there’s real money to
be picked up. I’m sure Al—your hus-
band would have wanted you to carry
on the glorious tradition.”
“H’m,” said Mrs. Keeler, “do you get
much money for running third in those
races?”
That was Skinny’s moment.
“Lady,” he said, “if that horse was
handled proper, there wouldn’t be any
thirds —it’d be firsts. Scut,” he said, turn-
ing to me, “you could do it. I know
you could.”
He looked suddenly as though a great
idea had handed him a kick.
“Why don’t you, Scut? Just for the
love of the grand old game. It wouldn't
take much to get her into shape, an
we’re here on our vacation with nothin'
to do. What d’yer say, Scut? For Mrs
Keeler’s sake.”
“You know, Hazlitt,” said I, “how I
hate mixing business with pleasure.”
“But this is pleasure,” chirped Skinny.
“Think of it, Scut, the perfection of a
magnificent piece of horseflesh. It’s a
duty, that’s what it is—a sacred duty.”
“I wouldn't do it for no one else,”
said I. “When do we start?”
The old lady looked at Skinny. “How
much would it cost, Mr. Hazlitt?”
“Not a cent,” said Skinny, looking like
a millionaire dropping sovereigns off the
Harbor Bridge to see if they could reach
the water. “Not a cent. You can leave
everything to us. We’ll fix it. In no
time you’ll be pickin’ up some pretty
handy stakes.”
WHAT Skinny and I knew about train-
ing horses we could have written on
one side of a cigarette-paper. All we did
was get the horse out early each morning
and coax her to show us how good she
was. She was good plenty.
The old lady knew nothing about the
workouts. It would have been curtains


m
m
m --
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
At your request wo shall be
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
t o
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs - colourful
bazaars —the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE 87901
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY .
«
i
X
\L3 Kj/ w X*
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN'S
SUITINGS
for us if she had. We had a regular
performance fitted up for her. Pretty
Sunrise would go round the track
about as fast as your watch when
you’re waiting for the feller who pro-
mised to pay you back the tenner he
borrowed.
There was only one thing that troubled
Mrs. Keeler. Skinny always had the
boy carry a whip. He never used it
when she was about, but you could see
that the old lady didn’t like it.
“It’s a regulation,” Skinny explained
when she chatted him about it, “in
regular trottin’ meetin’s. All drivers have
got to carry whips. It’s a matter of
weight, the same as lead bags on a race-
horse. Besides, Pretty Sunrise ought to
get used to it. She might get frightened
when they’re all fly in’ around her in
a race. Not that I’d ever dream of
lettin’ anyone use it,” he added. “I told
you what I once done to a man I caught
Hoggin’ a horse.”
She looked as though she was satis-
fied with that.
The routine went on for a couple of
weeks, and then Skinny got the horse
entered for a race. The same time he
sent down for a feller named Andy
McEnally, who did a bit of driving
around the trotting meetings. As soon as
Andy gave Pretty Sunrise a tryout with
the whip he wrote down to his sister to
pawn everything he had. He got so
that he couldn’t look at the horse with-
out rubbing his hands together.
At any rate, the time came for us to
take Pretty Sunrise down to the city.
By then she was covering the mile in
2min. Bsec. Everything looked rosy. But
there was one thing we hadn’t figured on.
The old lady insisted on coming with us.
“I haven’t missed a race she’s been
in,” she told Skinny.
That rather spoiled Skinny’s idea that
we might be able to use the horse a few
times without the old lady getting wise
to the whip. After she saw the way it
was lashed around in that first race I
• knew there’d be no more apple-pie for
Skinny. But there it was, and we had
to make the best of it.
To cut the story short we got Pretty
Sunrise down to the course. She was
quartered up in the stables about an hour
before the first race. Mrs. Keeler was
wandering around trying to look like a
lady owner, while Skinny and I were
doing our best to get the bookies to take
our money.
IT was a cinch. Pretty Sunrise was
' handicapped on the forty-yard mark.
Before long Skinny and I had the price
down from tens to sixes. We had to
knock off then because that was all our
money.
Skinny even started being generous,
and began looking for fellers he knew
just to wise them up to the good thing.
1 saw him with Darky Nolan, and a
minute after I saw Darky make a
dive for the betting ring. It made me
feel uncomfortable. I called Skinny over.
“I don’t want to put a damper on
your generous impulses,” I said, “but did
it occur to you what might happen if
Pretty Sunrise should happen to lose?”
“Don’t be an egg-head,” said Skinny.
"How can she? Ain’t we seen her do
' a mile in 2.8?”
When we came back to look at the
horse we found Mrs. Keeler standing in
front of the box looking sentimental.
There was a whip standing by the door,
and 1 noticed she didn't look any too
happy when her eyes lit on it.
“You’re sure it won’t be used?” she
asked Skinny.
“Lady,” said Skinny, “you have my
word of honor as a gentleman.”
We drifted off then to take a peek at
the other scrubs, and when we came back
she was inside the box patting the thing
all over and talking to it as though it
was her old man. A couple of minutes
later up comes Andy to harness Pretty
Sunrise into the gig. When he’d finished
Skinny shoved the whip into his hands.
Mrs. Keeler took a good screw at him.
“Don’t you use that whip, young man,”
she said.
Andy grinned. “No, lady,” he said ;
“it’s against me principles.”
Mrs. Keeler, Skinny and I went down
to the track to watch the preliminary
round. Pretty Sunrise went round like a
dirt-cart draught, and then they were
all ready for the start.
THE race was over a mile and a half,
and Skinny had it all fixed up so that
Pretty Sunrise just ran along with the
rest of them for the first half-mile. The
way Skinny looked at it, if she could
win without the whip it was all the better,
because then we’d have the horse for
more races. After all, it was a pretty
scrubby field. A decent trotter could
have beaten most of them running back-
wards.
When they passed the half-mile Pretty
Sunrise was running third. That was the
way they’d been handicapped. There
were two horses that had started from
the sixty mark. Pretty Sunrise was pick-
ing up ground, but the back-markers
were picking up on her a damn’ sight
quicker.
At the mile Pretty Sunrise had run
into second place, half a length behind
the leader, but the scratch horses were
right on her tail. Two furlongs to go
there were four of them all bunched to-
gether. Pretty Sunrise wasn’t doing no-
where near her best. She was looking
every minute as though she’d sooner be
playing follow-the-leader.
It was then that Andy let her have the
whip. You should have seen the change.
In about thirty yards there was daylight
between her and the second horse, and
it was stretching out like a piece of elas-
tic. It was pretty to watch.
“The dirty skunk!” said Skinny, look-
ing at Mrs. Keeler. “He’s usin’ the
whip! ”
There was a set look on the old lady’s
face, but she said nothing. Her eyes
were glued on her horse. I looked at
Skinny and I looked at her.
“Maybe it’s the heat of the moment,”
I said; “he’s carried away by himself.”
“Yeah,” said Skinny. “He’ll be real
ashamed of himself when it’s all over.
He’s a man who’d cry over a thing like
that.”
For the first time Mrs. Keeler opened
her mouth. “I knew it,” she said, twining
her fingers together. “I knew it.”
Then suddenly Skinny gave a yelp that
nearly scared the daylights out of me.
“Look!” he yelled.
My eyes jumped back to the track, and
straightway my pockets began to feel
empty. Pretty Sunrise had settled back
into the draught-horse gait, and the
others were going past her like a choco-
late-wheel past your favorite number.
“What happened?” said I, turning to
Skinny.
“The whip,” said Skinny. He could
hardly push out the words.
“What about it?” said I.
Skinny pointed down the track. It was
then that I saw the broken half. Right
then 1 felt like a comfortable dose of
arsenic. They passed the post with
Pretty Sunrise in about fifth place.
“IT was just as well I did it.”
' Skinny and 1 turned around. We
had almost forgotten the old lady.
“Yes,” she, said, “it’s just as well I
did it.”
“You did what?” asked Skinny with
hardly any interest.
Mrs. Keeler folded her arms. “I'm
glad I cut through the whip when I found
it near the door.
I grabbed Skinny by the arm. “Listen,”
I said, “we’d better get out of this before
Darky Nolan and the boys start looking
for us.”
Memories:—
FREEDOM
BY HENRY MORRIS.
WHEN the
engine roared
Selwyn Green
felt the same old
feeling of intense
happiness sweeping
over him. The
brown earth rocked
and heaved. A
minute passed, two
minutes, then the machine straightened
and zoomed upwards. A gentle pressure
on the joystick, and she flattened out, to
sail along serenely, suspended evenly
between the brown and the blue.
In the first sickening moments before
the machine left the ground, fear had
gripped at his heart. He had been back
in France with the engine of his fighting
'plane failing, a forest of shell-shattered
trunks and dead branches reaching up
to grapple with him. Again he had heard
the tearing, sicken-
ing crash of the
branches as the
machine tore earth-
wards like the
snapping of a dead
man’s bones.
But now, after
18 years of slavery,
he was free. For
the first time since 1918 Selwyn Green
was aloft; the master of his shattered
nerves.
There came a wild feeling of exhilara-
tion. The controls were at his hands.
The roar of the engine sounded all round
him. He looked up at the bluest of blue
skies; felt the warmth of the sun pene-
trating the cabin window, and laughed
aloud. His face was still white, the
knuckles on his hands showed out clear
against the tight skin, but he did not
notice. He bent forward to peer at the
speedometer. One hundred and forty
miles an hour! Great work for a little
bus.
A drop of perspiration fell between his
knees, and when he wiped his brow the
back of his hand came away wet; the
signs of strain meant nothing to him.
His eyes were bright and the hot blood
beat against his temples. The pointer
on the little white dial crept round to
one hundred and fifty. About her limit!
He’d have to be content with that.
ACROSS the blue whirled another
larger ’plane, a great dark shadow
with a black cross painted on her tail-
piece. Without a sign they fell into the
old battle manoeuvres. With a feeling
of dread, Selwyn knew he must play
the farce through again. To bank, to
turn and twist, pouring in a deadly hail
of bullets whenever the chance offered,
till the blonde German should slump for-
ward in his seat like a ghastly inanimate
bag.
Once when they ranged alongside each
other, both fighting for height, Selwyn
had a chance to observe his opponent
closely. He could not be more than
twenty-two, and looked younger. His
friendly blue eyes looked out on the
world with a puzzled light, and somehow
Selwyn knew, despite the venomous rattle
of the machine-gun and the skill with
which he manoeuvred his unwieldy craft,
the boy hated his job, and knew only one
reason why he must fight—for love of
the Fatherland. When the opportunity
offered, Selwyn, for love of his own
country, poured a hail of bullets into the
other’s big, soft body.
The young German half rose in his
seat and slumped forward in the cock-
pit. The ’plane reared like a drunken
thing and plunged earthwards. Selwyn
hovered above till it crashed to the
ground and the first few hungry tongues
of flame poked out to devour it.
The battle had taken place in full view
of the Allied 'drome, and as Selwyn
taxied up to the big hangar an enthusi-
astic crowd rushed lo meet him. Their
first enemy ’plane, and brought down by
old “Selly”! “Good man, Selly! ” “Good
shooting, boy!”
Celebrations in the mess that night
were long and protracted, but the patheti-
cally friendly eyes of the German kept
worrying him. There was no reason why
they should. The commandant had said
something about a possible decoration.
He should have been proud and happy.
After a while the wine warmed him
a little, and he laughed and sang with
the others. Why should he worry?
'“Damn the Germans!” It was good to
recover that grand feeling that came
with the banging of drums and a new
uniform back home, when one had really
believed the Huns were a tribe of lost
souls. Of course, it was a little fantastic
when one thought of the particular brand
of devil he had shot down that day.
Yellow hair and blue eyes.
The following day the whole squadron
took to the air, and Selwyn returned with
another scalp. He was not the only one.
Two others did the same, and the Ger-
mans scored as well. Selwyn remem-
bered how that had dampened their re-
joicing, and wondered just why they had
thought celebrations were in order the
night before.
Then a month before the Armistice
Selwyn was flying back to the base when
his machine began to fail. Losing height
rapidly, he crashed into the shell-
shattered forest of his dreams.
A QUIET, insistent knocking brought
him back to the present. The engine
was failing and he had not the faintest
idea where the trouble lay. He looked
out the cabin window. A clearing
showed up half a mile ahead, but he
could not make it. He was a bare two
hundred feet above the ground. He
looked down. The forest was rushing
up in a blank green wall to meet him.
The tearing, sickening sound as he
crashed through the uppermost branches
made him scream like a tortured child,
but as he sank into unconsciousness he
had the sense of freedom at last —of
freedom from a problem he could not
solve.


Meet
me
Phantom
in
AUSTRALIA.**
WOMANS MIRROR.
Now on Sale
\v
'-w , ‘
THE NATIONAL BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
• LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31st MARCH, 1936
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital . . £6,000,000
£ s. d.
Paid Up Capital . .
Reserve Fund . .
Currency Reserve • •
Notes in Circulation
Deposit and Current Accounts . .
2,000,000 0
1,000,000 0
500,000 0
99,820 10
13,655,182 3
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
and Provision for Doubtful
Debts and other contingencies 1,559,811 16
0
0
0
0
6
3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT:
Net Profit for Tear .. £102,593 13 9
Balance at Ist April, 1935 115,365 13 0
Less:—
Interim Divid-
end . . £40,000
Pension and
Gratuity
Funds .. 14,000
Premises .. 10,000
£317,959 6 9
64,000 0 0
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 153,959 6 9
£18,968,773 16 6
ASSETS.
NOTE. Tlie New Zealand and Australian assets and
liabilities are included at the par rates of exchange «nc
the net difference which, would have arisen had they been
converted at the rates ruling at the date of the Bulante
Sheet is covered by the Currency Reserves.
Complete Travel
Service to
IE U ICC IP IE
ON the way Home, see Can-
ada —Land of Glorious
Surprises. Canadian Pacific
trains through the Rockies
. . . Banff, Lake Louise. Pal-
atial hotels at all resorts, and
the famous “Empress” and
“ Duchess” ships on the
sheltered Atlantic Crossing.
These, combined with the
renowned service of Canadian
Pacific, make the most enjoy-
able trip to England and the
Continent.
Illustrated literature and details
from any Tourist Booking Agency
or
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 William Street, Melbourne,
247 George Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.R.N.: The too-frequent refrain tends to
pa 11... .H.G.: Sorry for delay; it doesn’t quite
click J.S.S.: Your prad failed to stay the
course... .T.H.Y.: Ineffective rhymes. And if
the Poet Laureate has pronounced that “damn-
able women have ignoble ears,” you may be
sure he wasn’t reflecting on a physical feature.
.... V.D.: Rhyming exercises, suitable for home-
consumption only T.W.E.: Truth in it
doubtless, but not a scrap of melody J.D.:
Not a bad ending, but the verse drags and
limps..:. R. 8.: Undistinguished L.M.8.:
“Pride” came nearest. If you want to see
print, have done with those vague longings
to be a tramp or a gipsy girl; you wouldn’t
really like it H.C.: “Letters from Heaven”
quite out of our line C.N.: Indigestible
jingle C.R.U.: Not this time, but there is
hope for you J.H.H.: Light verse must
stand or fall on its own merits, and yours falls
with a heavier thud than most... .R.C.: No
good at all M.L.L.: One is too like a
hymn, the other too prosaic H.P.: Not
absolutely but far from meritorious.
... .R. 0.: As impressionistic pieces some are
quite good. Don’t care much for the kind,
preferring more finished work... .K.G.: Poem
in honor of 21st birthday not up. Perhaps at
your 30th M.E.: “Approach of Spring”—
late, aren’t you? All the seasonal poets are now
drowsy with summer and cicadas Scribe:
Have an unshakable idea that unrhymed verse
in lines of any old irregular length takes no
writing whatever Longfallow: Terrific local
outbreak of headaches attributed to reading so
many “dream” stories... .M.T.: That plot’s an
elaboration of a hoary Scots gag W.G.E.:
Nice descriptive effort; try it on the magazine
section of a daily... .R.A.M.: Too melo-
dramatic C.W.P.: Too much verbiage
crowded out the worth-while stuff L.D.:
Not enough in it D. 0.: We’ve sworn off
theses on “Freud’s psycho-analytical system”
for light reading... .K.McC.: Your knowledge
of secret agents’ methods isn’t profound
A.M.M.: Tragic ending doesn’t suit it. Try
a humorous twist... .J.N.H.: You haven’t
made it any more convincing; the thing is
that the plot itself is too theatrical H.P.:
Not a bad bit of nautical description, but it
doesn't make a story G.M.8.: That’s too
old a stunt, and it has been handled better
E.L. (S. Africa): Article unsuitable for us;
passed on as requested E.H.: Your argu-
ments are sound enough, but we have no niche
lor them J.M.: Doesn’t quite click
C.W.P.: Not meaty enough... .1.M.M.: Yours
a bit tough and stringy J.T.R.: Dying
prophecies and revenge—too melodramatic....
J.McG.: Yarn started off all right, but col-
lapsed R.P.: "Pay-day,” but not for you,
owing to over-application of sordidness
J.M.L.: Nothing in the s.p. story J.H.:
If any motorist ever acted like that, we’ll eat
our shock-absorbers J.N.H.: Plot theatrical.
The Dominie: Nice little studies not quite
suitable; try elsewhere J.G.G.: Only a par.-
Icngth incident G.C.S.: Not enough spark
in “The Human Supercharger” R.R.:
Humor showing improvement, though zOo
sketch doesn’t quite get there G.C.L.:
F. story, but it doesn’t reach publishable
standard... .Y.M.H.: Shows distinct promise.
Dialogue is good; avoid purple patches such
as the unnecessary shark incident.... W.J .T.:
Domestic infelicity a bit overdone and long-
drawn-out 1.P.: As a thesis on economics
it might be all right, but it doesn’t make a
story E.W.: Not quite....Sti: Females
like that might exist, but they don’t impress
in print F.J.C.: Just missed J.H.W.:
Took Smith; other not for us C.G.H.:
Chivalrous jewel thief known as the “Ace of
Diamonds.” N 0!... .J.M.: Same to your
insignificant little clerk saved from committing
a robbery because the manager’s already done
the deed C.J.R.: The beast! J.Y.: No
fancy for story of mediaeval Germany....
G. : Thin, and much too long A.M.:
Yarns about astonishing inventions have to be
exceptionally good to get by W.M.M.: Even
the Religious Editor turned a stony eye on
your “Feminine Appeal” A.W.M.: Neither
of them up E.M.G.: We like the super-
natural in small doses 0n1y... .R.D.N.: Too
light, and the same type’s been done before.
... .P.A.D.: No nest here for “A Tough
Bird”... .E.R.M.: Close, but it goes bumpily.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.W.8.: Swagman with meat-hooks for hands
and his lopsided mate were ordered to keep
on walking... .F.S.: Plight of cleric with the
torn pants failed to amuse N.M.C.: Too
lifeless for anything beyond a draper’s advt.
.'...A3.: Capital and Labor see-saw gag is
mouldy with age C.S.: Your chorus girls
are dismal jesters D.H.: Fair draughtsman-
ship, but you fall down badly on minor details.
W.R.: Imitation will get you nowhere;
try a style of your own G. 8.: Timorous
linework and whiskered jests K.W.: You
can’t produce a masterpiece with an indelible
pencil and soggy butcher’s paper W.T.:
Haven’t you sent us a couple of X-ray photo-
graphs by mistake? C.H.L.: As an illus-
trator of fairy-tales you might have more luck.
R.S.: Gags anything but piquant, drawings
anatomically incorrect... ,L.N.: Still a long
way below print level M.M.: Looks as if
you used one rubber-stamp for men and an-
other for women C. 8.8.: You will never
do a staff-artist out of a job T.F.A.:
Cheques should come your way when you can
hit on brighter gags... .E.D.J.: The rustic and
the swell in the shooting cap might have walked
out of London “Punch”... .J.M.: We don't
like bodies with detached heads, arms and legs.
P.Q.: Indiscernible without a microscope.
C.J.T.: This week’s untidiest E.M.: The
day of the dull double question-and-answer
gag has gone by W.F.J.: Send us some
more samples when you have improved a
bit. 1
A MIXED GRILL.
“Brickbat”: , “Gagging” in Gilbert and
Sullivan has brought torrents of abuse on
the co. now in Australia —in Melbourne
especially. Letters to the papers speak
in horrified terms of “sacrilege” and “the
degradation of these beautiful English
classics to the level of low-class vaude-
ville,” and express ' their writers’ inten-
tions of not attending performances until
the operas are returned to the pristine
purity of the ’eighties. The fact that
many quips which were topical when
Gilbert wrote them are now meaningless
to all but those who have studied the
commentaries, and even to those give in-
tellectual satisfaction rather than amuse-
ment, should be sufficient justification for
“modernising.” I doubt whether Gilbert
would turn in his grave when “nigger
serenader” becomes “crooning serenader,”
or when Australian politicians are
placed on the list of things that “never
would be missed.” After all, the operas
to-day are put on as a business proposi-
tion to attract 1936 audiences, and not
merely as an opportunity for reminis-
cence among those who saw them 40
years ago.
$ * * *
“Blow-up”: Yes, some of those old
tradesmen were old masters. My first
boss was an English blacksmith. Pushed
for work he took on forging the handles
and spindles for half a dozen crab
winches. He didn’t get a repeat order.
“Why,” protested the foundryman who
was doing the cast-iron parts, “you’ve
done them that neat that they’re all
ready to go together. But I didn’t want
them like that; I wanted the collars just
roughed on, and I could have got a boy
at seven and six a week to turn them up
in a lathe.” There hadn’t been any
lathes where my boss learned his trade.
Pushed for shoeing nails, he take
a thin bar of iron and forge sufficient
just as quick as I could keep the irons
hot. His masterpiece, however, was the
forging of a tiny shoeing hammer out of
a Swedish shoeing nail, the handle tak-
ing the form of a long pin. Filed bright
and then burnished, it made a tiepin that
shone like silver.
S. A. Floyd, chairman of Sydney s
County Council, which was one ot
Spooner’s creations and now looms up
as a very doubtful blessing, asserts that
his show won’t be “economically doing
its job” unless it competes with taxpayers
selling electrical apparatus. The trade
protests that “this move towards social-
ism” is grossly inconsistent with the pro-
fessions of a Government which “won its
way to the Treasury benches because ot
its opposition to socialism,” and so it
is; so also is the charter given to the
Department of Road Transport to order
as many Government buses as it pleases
to buy. Lloyd is U.A.P. member for
Concord, and aping the good-as-Labor-
politician won’t save his shaky seat.
* .* * *
“S.T.S.”: Touching all this talk about
intentional wides in cricket and safety
misses at' billiards, the funniest thing 1
ever saw in the latter game was in a
“friendly” 100-up for a half-crown be-
tween an expert and a clubmate with
25 start. The latter finished a nice little
break by potting his opponent' and giving
a miss in baulk, with the red hard against
a side cushion. That left his score 84
to the expert’s 95. Expert, slightly
annoyed, made a hasty calculation, on a
3-to-l basis, and then fired straight into
a pocket. This he did five times, receiv-
ing four more misses in between. Then,
at 99-all, the other had to hit ’em up —
and the expert scored a cannon to win.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
20!t PJTT STREET, SYDNEY, JSI GEORGE STREET,
Rooms, 6/- and »/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.ni.), Din uer from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.),.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
10 attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid contusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to~Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, literary, own typewriter, offers services
as secretary or nurse to traveller abroad. Refs.
—2715.
Lady, N.S.W., golfer and bush walker, desires
a holiday on a station elsewhere, and offers
services as typist and general assistant in
return for accommodation. Refs. —2714.
To buy New Science and Healing, by Kune
(not the American edition). —2712.
To buy popcorn or get in touch with intend-
ing growers.—27lB.
To buy “Scottish-Australasian” for March,
September and October, 1922.—2736.
Information Sought.
(1) Did the Bruce-Page Government pass an
Act which enabled it to commandeer gold
produced in W.A. at £4 per ounce and sell it
outside Australia at £6 10,s. per ounce ? (2)
Do any Federal Acts in recent years deal with
gold ? —2635.
(1) No. (2) In December, 1929, an
amendment of the Commonwealth Bank Act
provided that, where the Treasurer was satisfied
it was expedient for the protection of the
currency or of the public credit of the Common-
wealth to do so, the Treasurer could authorise
the bank to require persons to furnish par-
ticulars of the gold coin or bullion held by
them and to require persons to exchange for
Australian notes any gold coin or bullion held
by them. The Act gave authority for the Gov-
ernor-General to prohibit, by proclamation, the
export of gold except under certain conditions.
No action was taken under this or any other
Act whereby the gold producers were deprived
of profit. An arrangement was made under
which the trading banks, when buying gold,
allowed the producer the benefit of exchange
on London, less freight and other charges.
* * * *
(1) Who are the members of the Australian
Defence Council ? (2) War service of each ?
—2481. •
(1) Prime Minister, Treasurer, Minister for
External Affairs, Minister for Defence, Chief
of the Naval Staff, Chief of the General Staff,
Chief of the Air Staff. In addition, the Prime
Minister may summon such other Ministers
or persons as he thinks fit to attend any meet-
ing of the Council, and such Ministers or
persons shall, for the time being, be deemed to
be members of the Council. (2) The Treasurer
and the three Chiefs of Staff served in the
Forces during the Great War.
* !]! *
Particulars regarding the naming of Rodd
Island, and the person after whom it was
named ? —2514.
The small islet in Long Cove, Sydney, off
Fivedock, known variously in early days as
Snake, Rabbit and Rhode Island, was finally
given the name of an early resident of Five-
dock, B. C. Rodd. At a Crown auction the
island was knocked down to Rodd for £lBO.
He took possession, cleared and improved the
island and encouraged the public to make use
of it, but the purchase was never completed,
owing to some dubiety as to foreshore rights.
Rodd gave up his option on an understanding
that the island was lo become a public reserve,
and when the Government erected a Pasteur
experimental station there and proclaimed it a
prohibited area he protested strongly. Later,
however, the island reverted to the use for
which Rodd had intended it. The present
name was bestowed on resumption by the
Crown, nearly half a century ago.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to alter the tone and range
of a singing voice ? (2) Can it be done at
home without tuition ? (3) What do good
teachers of singing charge for lessons ? (4)
What is the tenor range ? (5) How long does
it take to train a voice ? (6) Names and
addresses of good teachers ? (7) Is it possible
to improve a voice by imitating Demosthenes,
who filled his mouth with pebbles ? —2507.
(1) Vocal tuition can modify tonal quality
and extend the range, both upper and lower, of
a voice. (2) It is best done by a competent
teacher of voice production. (3) Fees vary up
to about £8 Bs. a term. (4) Up to top A; some
can go two or three semitones higher. (5)
Depends on the voice and the intelligence of
the student. (6) You *should be able to get
competent tuition from one of the music-
teachers in your own town. (7) Not recom-
mended.
(1) What are the award wages for station-
hands in Queensland ? (2) Any chance of an
experienced N.S.W. station-hand obtaining em-
ployment in Q’land ? —2584.
(1) Southern Division, £2 9s. per week;
Northern Division, £2 14s. per week, in each
case with keep. (2) Very little. It is reported
that stations there are carrying all the men they
require.
(1) Could a novice build a small canoe ?
(2) Approximate cost of material ? (3) Any
books dealing with the subject ? —2692.
(1) Yes, with proper tools and aptitude in
their use. (2) Depends on type of canoe, but
it isn’t expensive. (3) Canoes, Dinghies and
Sailing Punts (“Boys’ Own Paper” series), 2s.
3d., describes an easily-built canvas canoe;
Practical Boat-building for Amateurs, ss. 3d.,
deals with Rob Roy canoe. Both books are
obtainable from leading Sydney booksellers.
•J* Jjt $
/ have been told that glass can be cut by a
process which involves holding it under water.
If so, liow is it done ? —2704.
According to Henley’s Twentieth Century
Book of Recipes, Formulas and Processes, it
is possible to do the job roughly to any
desired shape with an ordinary pair of scissors,
used under water.
* * * $
How can I enter the N.S.W. tramway service
as a conductor ? Is the waiting list very crowded,
and must I join the Tramway Employees' Union
before applying ? —2610.
Application may be made by persons between
the ages of 21 and 35 who are not less than sft.
sin. "in height (without boots). Application
form is obtainable from the Staff Superinten-
dent, Department of Road Transport and Tram-
ways, 119 Phillip-street, Sydney. Appointment
is made to the grade of probationary conductor,
permanency being attained after 18 months’
satisfactory service. Applicants are called up
in the order in which they apply, in the pro-
portion of 75 p.c. married to 25 p.c. single
men. The waiting list of both married and
single applicants comprises hundreds of names.
Membership or non-membership of a trade-
union is not considered.
* * * *
Information concerning the kapul (New
Guinea opossum), one of which recently
passed through Brisbane on the Montoro bound,
for the Sydney Zoo ? —2475.
The animal was a white cus-cus, not an
opossum, and was sent to the Zoo by R. B.
Worden, of Madang. These animals are found
in New Guinea and Cape York Peninsula. They
are fairly harmless, though if interfered with
they can inflict a nasty wound With teeth and
claws. A full-grown animal is about the size of
an opossum, and a peculiarity of the
species is that there is no hair on the face
or the end of the tail. They are apparently
slow in movement, sleeping all day, but are
very active at night. They smell rather
strongly, not unlike a fox. The specimen
which arrived in the Montoro is an albino, with
pink eyes, and is a nice little animal. It
is fed on meat.
* * * iff
(1) Is the standard required for the N.S.W.
public service examination higher than the
intermediate ? (2) What subjects must be
passed to become a successful candidate ? (3)
Is there an age limit for candidates; if so,
what? (4) Any vacancy for a youth of 19
with the intermediate certificate in the forestry
or other service ? —2547.
(1) and (2) The special N.S.W. public service
papers, consisting of English (composition, con-
struction of sentences, grammatical corrections,
precis-writing), dictation and handwriting, must
be taken in conjunction with at least six sub-
jects at the intermediate certificate exam. The
exam, is competitive in nature, and candidates
are required to obtain 55 p.c. in each of the
special public service papers and an aggregate
of 55 p.c. of six intermediate certificate sub-
jects from the list posted, (3) Candidates at
the intermediate certificate standard must be
under 18 years of age on the first day of the
intermediate certificate examination. (4) Not
as junior clerk, recruitment as such being from
the channel set out above or at the leaving
certificate standard. Apart from junior clerk-
ships, vacancies in connection with forestry
work are advertised in the press. You could
apply to the Forestry Commission as to the
possibility of securing employment at forestry
camps.
* * * *
Particulars regarding the introduction of
camels into Australia; where were they
obtained ? —2545.
It is believed that the first camel to be
introduced into Australia was the survivor of
three bought at Teneriffe and landed at
Port Adelaide in 1840; a later importation was
made by Sir Henry Barkly, Governor of Vic-
toria, who in 1860 was authorised to bring
camels from India for the Burke and Wills
expedition: 24 camels from Peshawur, of
both fleet and heavy species, were safely landed.
In 1866 100 camels were imported by Thomas
Elder, and, although a large number were lost
through mange, the remainder quickly multi-
plied on his Beltana station, and were employed
in carrying supplies along the overland tele-
graph line during its construction in 1871-73.
The S.A. Government has a camel station at
Mt. Searle. It is computed that there are over
11,000 camels in Australia, as well as many
hundreds in a wild state in the interior.
* * v -. f
What progress is being made with the 200 in.
diameter telescope for Mt. Wilson, U.S.A.? —
2541.
The most recent information we have is that
the 200 in. Pyrex disc has been successfully
transported in a specially built railway car
front the Corning glass works to the Mount
Wilson observatory, where it arrived in perfect
order. The disc is now in the Mount Wilson
laboratory, undergoing very severe tests. It
will be several years before the telescope will
be put into use.
* * * *
Is the “Adelphi” magazine, originally edited
by J. Middleton Murry, still in existence ?
Has No. 7, Vol. 1, any particular value? —2529.
The magazine still exists, and Mr. Murry
is still associated with it. The publishers state
that there is a constant demand. for back
numbers, and copies of the early monthly series
from June, 1923, to June, 1927, which includes
the first issue, are offered at 25., post free.
* * Sis *
Is there any difference between “one square
mile” and “one mile square” ? —2629.
Both have the same area, the equivalent of
a square with sides one mile in length, but
"one mile square” indicates that the shape of
the area is square, while a “square mile” may
refer to a similar area of any shape.
'o 'l' -ft
(1) Is a N.S.W. lease in perpetuity taxable
if sold ? (2) If sold on a basis walk-in-walk-
out with 1000 sheep, what is the basis of value
of sheep—is it the value as per last income-tax
return or the market value of the sheep ? (3) If
the sale is on terms, should the payments as
made be shown in that particular year’s return
or the full amount of sale in the year of sale ?
(4) Does the Taxation Department allow for
the value of improvements effected if the
amount of sale of lease is taxable ? —2459.
(1) If the lease referred to is a perpetual
lease without revaluation, or a lease with a
right of purchase, it will not be subject to
tax, as it was not bought by the taxpayer,
but selected. (2) The sheep should be included
in the return at the selling price as stated in
the contract, dr, if no contract, at the market
selling price of the date of sale. Sheep bred
by the taxpayer, on hand at July I, 1935, and
ordinarily used by him for breeding purposes,
will not be included in assessable income.
(3) The total sale price should be returned
in the year of the sale. (4) In arriv-
ing at the profit on the sale of the lease the
value of any improvements would be taken
into consideration to the extent to which they
were not recouped by deductions in previous
income-tax returns.
* * * *
Names of prominent members of Ben Hall’s
bushranging gang ? —2631.
On Gardiner’s abdication the leadership of his
gang was taken over by Hall and Johnny Gil-
bert. The former was originally a small squatter
who was suspected by the police of assisting
Gardiner, and, as a result of their attentions
and, allegedly, his wife’s unfaithfulness, finally
threw in his lot with Gardiner. In the end he
was betrayed by a connection, Mick Connolly,
to whom he had entrusted his money, for a
reward of £5OO, and was shot by police while
he slept near Billabong Creek, his body being
riddled with bullets. He had at the time of
his death made arrangements to follow Gar-
diner’s example and give up a lawless life.
Johnny Gilbert was Canadian-born, the son of
an old soldier; he also was betrayed to the
police, being shot dead on May 8, 1864. He
is the subject of a poem by A. B. Paterson.
* * * *
(1) Particulars and value of the nine kr.
Baden stamp, issued in 1851 ? (2) Name of
Sydney firm that values and buys stamps ?
—2614.
(1) Engraved by C. Naumann, Frankfurt,
printed by Hasper, Karlsruhe, and issued on
May 1, 1851. The stamp is catalogued at
15s. unused and 3s. used, but may be bought
for a fraction of these prices. (2) C. F.
Laseron, 4 Bond-street, Sydney, and A. C.
Campe, 50 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.
* * * *
The addresses of secretaries of the following
English societies, together with annual subscrip-
tions: (1) Chemical Society? (2) Botanical
Society ? (3) Royal Microscopical Society ?
—2667.
(1) Burlington House, Piccadilly, London;
subscription, £3 p.a. (2) W. H. Pearsall, Mat-
field, Kent; sub., 10s. p.a.; exchange members,
£l. There are also a Botanical Society of
Edinburgh (hon. sec., R. J. D. Graham ; sub.,
155.) and a Botanical Society of Liverpool (hon.
sec., Miss N. Speakman, 91 Islington-street,
Liverpool; sub., 55.). (3) C. Tierney, D.Sc.,
B.M.A. House, Tavistock-square, London,
W.C.I; entrance fee, £2 25.; sub., £2 2s. p.a.
* * * *
(1) Commercial value of shark oil and
method of extracting front liver ? (2) Method
of curing shark jaws ? —2329.
(1) The value of shark liver oil fluctuates
with that of cod oil (not cod liver oil) and
varies from about 2s. 3d. to 2s. 9d. per
gallon. It is extracted from fresh livers either
by means of direct steam or in a steam-
jacketed kettle. After extraction it is necessary
that the whitish deposit known as stearine, or
“foots,” be removed at a low temperature,
preferably in a filter press. (2) To preserve
shark jaws, soak them in formalin for a short
time, then cut away all adherent flesh with a
sharp knife. Dry them in the sun and wind
for three or four days, and when dry wash
them in an arsenic solution to protect them
against the attacks of pests.
*s* . *
Names of the founders, the adherents and
the doctrines of the following schools of Greek
philosophy: (1) The Academy? (2) The Gar-
den ? (3) The Lyceum ? (4) The Porch ? (5)
The Tub ? —2719.
(1) Plato, the Platonists, Platonism. (2) Epi-
curus, the Epicureans, Epicureanism. (3) Aris-
totle, the Aristotelians, Aristotelianism. (4)
Zeno, the Stoics, Stoicism. (5) Antisthenes,
the Cynics, Cynicism.
* * * *
Particulars of the major works of painter
Charles Wheeler, where they are to be found,
and subject ? With what picture did he win
the Archibald Prize 3-^-2720.
Mr. Wheeler has kindly supplied information
regarding his larger works. In Melb. National
Gallery are “The Poem,” a three-figure subject
picture; “Reverie,” a nude study; a portrait
of Dr. E. H. Sugden and a self portrait: in
Sydney National Gallery, “The Portfolio,” a
study of a girl looking at drawings; “Noon
Dreams,” a nude; and a self portrait: in
Adelaide National Gallery, a nude study ; in
Ballarat Gallery, “Sleep When the Day For-
gets,” a nude. At the State Theatre, Sydney,
is a nude, “Interlude,” which was awarded the
Art Quest Prize for 1927. The Archibald Prize
was won with a portrait of Ambrose Pratt.
* * * *
Recipe for an embrocation to rub on legs
to relieve aching after walking? —lB29.
Oil of turpentine Boz., acetic acid l|oz., oil
of lemon 2 drachms, yolk and white of egg
2 lid. oz., distilled water to 1 pint. Emulsify
the turpentine and oil of lemon with the egg:
gradually add portion of the water, and finally
the acetic acid diluted with balance of the
water.
* * * *
Recipe for dog biscuits containing a maxi-
mum proportion of meat and with fair keep-
ing qualities ? —2406.
Mince or chop the meat fairly finely; spread
it thinly on sheets of paper to dry in the sun
or a slow oven until it is sterile dry. If drying
is not easy plunge the meat into boiling
water and keep at boiling-point for five minutes
until it is albumenised, then dry it as above.
Make a dough of three parts plain flour
and one part wheatmeal. containing a little
baking powder and sufficient salt to taste,
using water to mix. Add the meat, as much
as you wish to include in the mixture, and roll
out on a board; cut or mark into biscuit
shapes and bake in a good oven. Store in
airtight tins. The addition of sulphur makes
a slightly medicated biscuit. It is useful to
make some biscuits with less meat than others.
If the meat has been slightly boiled use the
water for mixing the biscuits, but let it cool
first.
Does Anybody Know?
Why is a billycan so called? —2711.
Brief Answers.
T.P.W.: Write the Federal Broom Co., 10
Fred-street, Leichhardt, and the Austral Broom
Co., 236 Johnstone-street, Annandale —both
Sydney... .H.C.: Get in touch with the
Pensions Dept., Wellington, M.L V.A.C.:
Yes, the law gives them power to temporarily
occupy any lands for purposes of water, sewer-
age or drainage works without obtaining the
permission of the occupant. They must not
cause damage to the property beyond what is
necessarily incidental to the work, and should
leave the place in reasonable order... .R.H.:
The second wife is not entitled to any portion
of the money in trust. As to her husband’s
estate, if he dies without making a will, she
takes one-third, the remainder being divided
between his children, whether of the first or
second marriage... .C. 5.8.: Yes, he may dis-
claim. A deed of disclaimer is the best evi-
dence of renunciation, but the conduct of the
person desiring to renounce may amount to a
disclaimer... .H.E.H.: “South China Morning
Post,” Wyndham-slreet, Hong Kong, China.
... .C.E.C.: The Commonwealth Copyright
Act embodies the British Act, and the provi-
sions of the latter operate as if they were
local provisions P.W.: The title “Princess
Royal,” conferred on the eldest daughter of a
sovereign, was last bestowed on the Princess
Mary, Countess of Harewood, in 1932....
R.C.: See Alloys of Iron and Copper, by J.
L. Gregg and R. N. Baniloff, and The Metal-
lurgy of Bronze, by H. C. Dews T.L.:
Booroodabin means “place of the oaks”;
Caboolture, “the carpet snake”; Kawana,
“flowers”; Koodyoorinadyal, “Southern
Cross”; Kooroora, “native camp”; and Too-
goolwa, “place of the heart” —all are Q’land
abo. place-names E.D.: Rates of pay for
apprentice bricklayers range from 12s. 6d. per
week in the first year to £2 per week in the
fifth. For journeymen, the minimum rate is
2s. 3d. per hour. For work of a dangerous or
unpleasant nature, minimum rate is 2s. 6d.
per hour... .H.A.: The Anzac Memorial, Hyde
Park, Sydney, was designed by C. Bruce Deilit,
winner of a competition instituted by the
trustees... .S.S.: An Outline of Australian
Literature, by H. M. Green... .R.M.8.: The tax
has been levied in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Q'land Income (Unemployment
Relief) Tax Acts and is not payable in advance.
The assessments for the financial year ended
June 30, 1935, and also for other financial
years, are based on the income derivpd by tax-
payers during the preceding 12 months
R.8.G.: Symptoms point to eczema. This
should have been attended to immediately it
was noticed. Trouble may have been due to
worms. The feeding certainly was wrong.
Raw beef given twice a day is a mistake. It
takes roughly 16 hours to digest J.R.C.:
E. Esdaile and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, and
H. B. Selby and Co., Bulletin-place—both
Sydney F.K.: Search is being made in
local files (1896 approx.); letter to follow.
... .C.N.: Books of no special value....
Pensioner: If the source is in Victoria, such
pension would not be liable to N. S. Wales
tax T.J.G.: He has a right to the title
because he was a Federal Cabinet Mini-
ster M. 8.: Write Dept, of Labor and
Industry, Melbourne H.K.S.: Get in
touch with A. E. Smith, violin expert,
9 Hunter-street, Sydney A.E.S.: (1) About
20001 b. (2) Not if correctly applied. (3)
Vincent Lopez is generally recognised as the
world’s champion wrestler. (4) No 8.G.:
The name mentioned docs not appear in
the official record of the Olympic Games
for either 1906 or 1912: inquiries among sport-
ing bodies and champions of other days re-
garding him were similarly without result....
A.J.H.: (1) Jacob Stainer, a famous old
German violin-maker. (2) The violin would be
of considerable value if genuine, but many
thousands of copies of this maker’s work have
been made. (3) A. E. Smith and Co., 9
Hunter-street, Sydney, could undertake repairs
and give definite information M.H.: The
Red Page of The Bulletin dates back to the
issue of August 29, 1896 J.C.: Write
Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney D.C.:
E. Charlish, Norfolk Stud, Camden; Mental
Hospital, Gladesville; Snelson Bros., Leeton —
all N. S. Wales; and Hog Farm, Canberra,
F. K.M.8.: Get in touch with Tod-
williams, Ltd., 646 King-street, Newtown, and
George Foster and Sons, 13 King-street, St.
Peter’s--both Sydney F.S.: The Taxpayers'
Association of Victoria has been asked to
send you a copy of its journal containing a
full list of rates of succession duties W.M.:
The bureau is genuine G.N.: Insufficient
information to say whether eligible. Qualifica-
tion is total and permanent incapacity for all
work. She might apply, however, on the pre-
scribed forms obtainable at any post office. .
S.W.D.: (1) E. F. Wilks and Co., 124 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. f 2) Unit alone, £34 10s.:
cabinet, £l5. (3) See Modern Gas and Electric
Refrigeration, by Althouse and Turnquist, price
245., from leading Sydney booksellers....
A.8.K.: Get in touch with Burns, Philp and
Co., 7 Bridge-street, Sydney F.L.: A bay-
window, named as making a bay in the wall
of a room, is one that projects outwards from
the wall in a rectangular, polygonal or curved
form. Bow-window is properly restricted
to the curved one R.J.8.: Herbert C.
Macllwaine is the author of three other
volumes in addition to Dinkinbar; they are
Fate the Fiddler, The While Stone and a volume
of three stories R.W.: Write to the Vic.
Taxpayers’ Association, 360 Coll ins-street, Mel-
bourne G.A.L.: In Sydney the clerks.
wholesale hardware, etc. (metropolitan), award
provides the following rates of pay for male
employees: Age 22, £3 195.; age 23, £4 45.:
receiving and delivery clerks, £4 ss. 6d.:
cashiers, ledger-keepers, timekeepers and cost-
ing clerks, £4 9s. per week R.L.: Manjiri
is a W.A. abo. place-name meaning “a gum
forest”... .8.W.: “Atria region hominibus
plena sunt, amicis vacua” is from Seneca. In
English. “The halls of kings are full of men.
but void of friends” M.W.: It was Disraeli
who said “Wc all of us live too much in a
circle”... .W.W.F.: Cannot trace any similar
books H.E.8.: Know of no book on the
subject....(Many others mailed.)


€
f
I
I
I
1
\
1
“Having worn one of
your Governa Belts, I
am pleased to state my
waistline has been re-
duced five inches, and
my weight from 16
stone 5 pounds to 14
stone. I have not
altered my diet in any
way, and my health is
perfect. I have played
golf and cricket, and
have done a lot of
horseback riding as well
as my usual occupation,
and I have found the
Belt comfortable in
every way.”—Mr. C. J.
Dean, Adelong, N.S.W.
REDUCE Your
WAIST 3 to 6ins.
/Vr—.
h
Men wearing the Gov-
erna Corrective Health
Belt are protected
against rupture risks,
even if they play golf,
polo, cricket, tennis or
ride horseback.
NO DIETING—NO MEDICINES—
NO EXERCISES
A bulging waistline is not only unbecoming, Hut it also
endangers your health. Insurance companies know the
danger. The best medical authorities warn against it,
so don’t wait any longer.
The Governa Corrective Belt restores a more natural
bodily balance, and will make you appear inches
slimmer AT ONCE. Its elastic action causes a gentle
changing pressure on the abdomen, bringing results
formerly obtained by regular massage and exercise. In
7 short days your waistline will actually be 3 inches
smaller—3 inches of “bulge,” strain and discomfort
gone—OK IT WON’T COST YOU A PENNY.
The Belt supports the abdominal wall and keeps the
digestive organs in place—it gives you an erect, athletic
carriage and greatly increases your vigor and endurance.
Note how much better your clothes fit and look without
a heavy waistline to pull them out of shape.
FREE
SENT ON 7
DAYS’ TRIAL
Prove, at our expense, that the Governa Corrective Belt
will reduce your girth by inches; prove that it will give
you the smarter appearance that you desire, and a
waistline of which you will not be ashamed. We will
send you this wonderful belt on 7 days’ free trial, with
the distinct understanding that it brings you the full
results you desire or else it costs you nothing. Send the
trial offer coupon at once.
POST THIS 7-DAY TRIAL OFFER COUPON TO-DAY
GOVERN A CORRECTIVE BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Gentlemen,—Without obligation on my part, send me your illustrated
folder describing the Governa Corrective Health Belt, and also give me
full details of your 7-DAY FREE TRIAL OFFER. I enclose 2d. in
stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
The NEW
AIRFLOW flask
makes POWDER
so easy to use
EMOV
IDE DO WHO
S
R E SS
\ c
O L
C &
easy
ONVHsnse mooi
wao NMoa 30«<in
aiOH‘dVD3AOW3)I
TO USE
All dentifrices contain some
powder, that’s what does the
cleaning. But Calvert’s is ALL
powder, that’s why it makes
teeth whiter. Now Calvert’s
Airflow Flask makes powder
even easier to use than paste
from an old-fashioned tube.
“LIQUIDATED”
BY “EL V.”
rHE “liquidation” of personnel which
is going on in Moscow has already
Communism ot
nf its fieriest stars
Internationalists in iheir fashion the
persons of the drama of butchery are-
Sr were. Stalin is a Georgian ; Zinoviev’s
former name was Apfelbaum ; Kamenev
was Rosenfeldt; Tomsky was Efremov
(Ephraim); Trotsky was Bronstein ;
Radek is (or was) an Austrian-born Jew.
A cobbler’s son, Stalin was expelled
from a monastery in which he was an
initiate, and his life for years was one
gaol sentence after another. He reached
revolutionary eminence on June 13, 1917,
when he raided an open carriage,
guarded by Cossacks, in the streets of
Tiflis, threw bombs which killed Cos-
sacks 5 bystanders and horses, and got
away’ with 341,000 roubles, in 500-rouble
notes. Litvinov, now a personage at
Geneva, was caught trying to pass some
of the boodle in note numbers
were advertised throughout Europe.
So Stalin became Lenm’s “rough-
house man He pacified the Cos-
sacks—an artless picture job
given m Quiet Flows the Don- expro-
pnated banks m Moscow and Petr
grad, and carried fire and sword throug
the Caucasus.
At this stage he linked up with Voro-
shilov, now his right-hand man and corn-
mander of the Red Army, and cleaned
up Kronstadt. Soldiers and sailors m
that fortress city inconveniently chose' a
moment in 1921 when the Communist
party was holding its tenth congress to
demand the freeing of Russia from Corn-
munist control. Stalin and Voroshilov
had the place shelled. According to
Stephen Graham, a pretty reliable
authority, “a mediaeval slaughter of the
inhabitants” followed.
Lenin, Trotsky, Kamenev, Zinoviev,
Stalin, Sokolnikov and Bubnov com-
posed the Central Committee of the Com-
munist party. They were not a happy
family. Within two months Zinoviev,
Kamenev and Trotsky thought of desert-
ing Lenin and forming a Government
without him. Stalin wanted to have
them shot. Lenin said no ; they would
come running back. They did. And
though occasionally there was more talk
of shooting, they got along somehow
until Lenin died.
In politics as in ancestry Zinoviev and
co. were internationalists. Stalin was
not concerned much with anything but
Russia. A division of functions enabled
them all to live and let live. Stalin and
Dzherzhinsky, head of the Cheka
(Dzherzh was a Polish Jew), kept the
peasants quiet. Trotsky tried to consoli-
date his position by building himself into
a Cromwell with the Red Army behind
him. Zinoviev became the organiser of
world revolution, assisted by Kamenev,
Radek and Bukharin (author of the
Programme of World Revolution, copies
of which have been distributed by tens
of thousands in Australia), Rykov, Sokol-
nikov and Tomsky.
In 1922, it was proudly announced
that Australia had entered the Commu-
nist International, and J. S. Garden, now
M.H.R., became a member of the world
executive.
Hungary had been “revolutionised” for
a few mad months by Bela Kun (Cohen)
and Samuelsky ; there were high hopes
of Bulgaria. Says the Encyclopaedia
Britannica :
On April 14, 1925, an attempt was made
on the life of King Boris, and General
Gheorghiev was killed next day. < At his
funeral, which was held on April 16, in
the Cathedral of Sveta Nedelia (Sofia), a
bomb exploded killing 123 persons and
wounding 323. ,
A certain Gregory Bessedovsky has
drawn a pretty picture of the period.
According to his account, Loganovsky,
“who had been getting in some practice
shoots by bursting bombs in editorial
offices and political bureaux in Poland,”
proposed to repeat the Sofia programme
in Warsaw. The Poles were raising a
monument to Joseph Poniatovsky, and
at the unveiling ceremony there were to
be generals (including Foch), political
delegations and the diplomatic corps.
Loganovsky suggested “liquidating’
this assemblage with a couple of
infernal machines —he always took care
to display the (Russian) Embassy flag on
the bonnet of his car when he was
carrying bombs. Bessedovsky discovered
that he was to represent the Soviet Gov-
ernment at the performance as a sacri-
fice “for effect.” So he scotched the plan
and lived —to escape some time after-
wards from “comrades” intent on shoot-
ing him by climbing over the back fence
of the Paris Embassy.
When Zinoviev was in control of “the
world revolution” he led the campaign
against “British imperialism.” Flam-
boyant instructions in his name were
issued to Communists in Australia. Now
he, Kamenev —the custodian of Lenin’s
will—and 14 others have been de-
stroyed by the Stalinists like rats in a
bucket, and at the terrible mockery ot
a Moscow trial most of them failed to
show even common courage. Tomsky
another person who sent orders by the
bushel to Australians —anticipated exe-
cution by shooting himself.
Perhaps Mr. Garden will send his
jubilee medal, in place of a wreath, to
be laid on Zinoviev’s grave.
“Oxmead”: John Peden, Dean of the
Faculty of Law at Sydney Uni., in the
intervals of being President of the Leg.
Council, denounces as “black vipers
undergrads, who answer the names of
absent friends at lecture rollcalls, and
threatens them with dire penalties. It
comes as news to me that uni. lectures
should be preceded by rollcalls; times must
have changed a lot or Australian condi-
tions be much stricter than English ones.
In my own distant day at Oxford men
either attended the lectures set down for
them or didn’t; there was no attempt
to ensure that they did. Some —indeed,
many—were allowed to dispense with the
regular routine altogether on condition
that they went to private coaches, which
of course meant extra fees and generally
more effective tuition. For some of the
unofficial coaches were more successful
than any of the academic ones. Pitt
Cobbett, who made a distinguished name
for himself at Sydney Uni., where he
accepted an appointment 50 years ago,
was merely a private coach at Oxford.
* * *
N. S. Wales has an Egg Board which
periodically shakes the faith of hen-
farmers in the alleged blessings of “con-
trol.” Among its recent activities have
been a huge export to the British market
and a price-cut in the home market.
Both operations immediately preceded a
sharp rise in the price of wheat and
pollard. Apropos, Dorman Smith, M.P.,
president of the British National
Farmers’ Union, has been writing that,
“by means of a tariff designed to dis-
courage imports, we probably could be-
come self-supporting in eggs.” And
some day, no doubt, “they” will get a
“tariff designed to discourage imports,’
and the bottom will fall out of the egg-
export business in Australia.
* * * *
E. T. Crutchley, after being British
representative at Canberra, went to
a job in the British Post Office. He
has now been transferred back to
an Assistant-Under-Secretaryship in the
Dominions Office. The statement of
Treasurer Casey that it “would be
helpful to have someone at the
Dominions Office with recent and active
knowledge of Australian affairs” will
raise a lot of quiet smiles in the unpre-
tentious rooms which Dominions heads
haunt in Downing-street. Apart from
Sir Harry Batterbee, who knows his Aus-
tralian politics like the palm of his hand
—he was here with the Duke of York as
political adviser —there are at least two
D.O. men who spend their whole time
poring over current Australian affairs.


FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Canterbury Stakes: Cuddle;
next, Lough Neagh.
Flying Handicap: ‘ Canegrass ;
next, Goorka.
September Handicap: Loud
Applause ; next, Curator.
Guineas: Tucker box; next,
Tonga.
Ashbury Handicap: The Freak ;
next, Toriwa.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Heatherlie Handicap
next, Desert Chief.
Memsie Stakes:
next, Charles Fox.
Whittier Handicap:
houette ; next, Bimilla.
Bustard
Allendale
Belle Sil
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the course of some excellent racing
at Warwick Farm it was revealed that
there are at least two good three-year-
olds. Gold Rod, of course, is one.. At
the distance, seven furlongs, he over-
shadowed his opponents in the Hobart-
vijle Stakes—and there were 19, an un-
usual number.
E. J. Watt's chestnut has grown into a
fine-looking fellow. He was backed from
5 to 4 to 6 to 4 on, it being 12 to 1
bar one. No. 8 at the barrier, he dashed
out like a greyhound, and was the leader
at the end of a furlong. Water Waggon
tried to pace it with him, but couldn’t go
on when McCarten let Gold Rod slip
away at the turn. The chestnut was
easing up while .Shakespeare (14 to 1)
and Bobby (12 to 1) were chasing him
up the straight: 2? lengths; a head;
lrriin. 26|sec. Gustos was fourth. He
can scarcely be improved in condition ;
but Rob Roy, Apollo, Barramul and
Plutus will do better with more racing.
Talking is the other good one, and his
performance was as impressive as that of
Gold Rod, for in the Warwick Stakes,
w.f.a., he beat a better field. A 101 b.
allowance was claimed for this son of
Magpie—Society, and he started at fours,
Cuddle being favorite at 6 to 4. Talking
trailed Cuddle to the turn, and then beat
her for pace. He bounded right away
from the Doncaster winner, and Lough
Neagh accounted for Cuddle in the run
home: three lengths ; 2\ lengths ; lmin.
38sec. Sarcherie was backed, but could
not go the early pace. Allunga was doing
well in the last two furlongs.
Talking cost 125 guineas as a yearling
and has won five races —a great bargain.
He lacks Gold _ Rod’s commanding
appearance, but is a typical Magpie.
Price, of course, has Gold Rod. Pat
Nailon trains Osculum for Mrs. Watt. It
is a pity Osculum is not in the Epsom or
the Metrop., for the Grafton Cup winner
is one of the most improved horses rac-
ing. Parsons rode a heady race on him
in the Spring Handicap, for which
Dromos’s brother went out at 9 to 2.
Waiting for the last run, the lad took
his mount up to Verberry in the final
furlong, and Osculum scored cleverly by
a neck. The pacemaker, Musk Deer,
was third. Dulcedo disappointed. He
had the run of the race, but finished a
weary fourth. Gone off, apparently. The
backing of Fair Diana was a surprise ;
she did not look ready to run out 11
furlongs, but must have been working
well at Rosehill. Under the whip at the
turn, she beat only Spear Belle home.
The Marne, improved by a run at
Rosebery—he was second to Some Boy-
had a popular victory in the Campbell-
town Handicap. He was firm at fives,
and McCarten virtually won the race at
the barrier. He hopped out Heroic’s son
smartly and took up a position behind
Arachne (6 to 4), who hit the front after
a slow beginning. The mare commenced
to shorten her strides at the top of the
straight. There Cereza went' past her.;
The Marne issued a challenge at the
Leger, and it was all over in a twinkling.
Silver Streak travelled very fast in the
straight and got third: two lengths;
same ; lmin. 13|sec. On Parade, an-
other visitor from M.L., was fourth. The
Marne is in the Epsom, but there is a
doubt about his being a genuine miler.
Still he appears to be sticking,better with
increasing age.
Tuckerbox (7 to 1) led throughout in
the Novice. Peter Pan's half-brother
Brazilian tried to run him down at dif-
ferent stages, but he could not do it.
Sedenum was third and Trekster fourth.
Aerial Post, heavily backed, was noticed
early, but dropped out as the race pro-
gressed ; and The Athenian could not
see the journey out.
So far there has been little Epsom
money for King Gee, but he is a worthy
candidate with 7st. 31b. His success in
the Glenlee Handicap was a meritorious
performance, and it followed an equally
good one at Rosehill. Not sighted at the
beginning, King Gee made a fast move
three furlongs from home, went round his
field and won easily from Wykeham and
Dermid, both of whom were doing their
best work at the end: length ; length ;
lmin. 39isec. Loud Applause was a
street-corner tip, but his apprentice was
of little use to him, though he finished
fourth. He looks an early winner. The
Freak and Brushwood showed pace.
There was money for Silver Standard,
but he must have left his smashing trials
on the track, as he was never a possi-
bility. . _ .
King Gee’s price was returned at
fours, but as they were lined up at the
barrier fives could be got without diffi-
culty.
* * * *
Those who have supported Donaster
for the Caulfield Cup need not lose faith
in him because he was only third in the
Epsom (Vic.) Cup. His owners, J. A.
MacLeod and C. F. Taylor, consider that
the Great Star four-year-old requires a
fair amount of racing at this juncture to
render him fit for the spring. Donaster
had not sported silk since he won the
S.A.J.C. St. Leger, the Baker Handicap
and the King’s Cup at Morphettville in
May.
Nine-tenths of the spectators expected
that Donaster would drop behind in the
early part of the H-mile journey and put
in a long-sustained run at the close. He
surprised by being with the leaders as
they turned out of the straight. Never
farther back than fourth, the chestnut
easily wrested control from Barren Corn
entering the straight, and was hailed as
the winner. However, Desert Chief and
the Pantheon prad Orford went too fast
for him towards the end.
Desert Chief, who won, had been
rather weak in the betting. Favorite
at 3 to 1, he eased to twice those
odds ; then the price firmed a point. His
backers were prepared to sell out at a
heavy loss when they saw the M.L. stal-
lion seventh in a strung-out field at the
back of the course and showing no dis-
position to improve the aspect of affairs.
Stan Tomison must have been riding to
orders, for Desert Chief, when called on
at the three-furlong pole, past one
rival after another. He was ridden out
to beat Orford, but the win must be
written down as notably good.
G. J. Barton put a high reserve on
Desert Chief —1500gns.—when the son
of Chief Ruler came under the hammer
in Melbourne a few months ago. He
can be thankful that no sale took place,
for Desert Chief is coming into his own
as a four-year-old. In the Caulfield Cup
he will meet Donaster on 61b. worse
terms, and perhaps Donaster will prove
his master at “the Heath.” Yet Desert
Chief is a good ’un.
Conandale, who had made a splendid
race of it with Allendale at Williamstown,
rose to the occasion in the Manumbar
Handicap. Favorite at 7 to 4 in a field
of 15 three-year-olds, he looked in danger
of defeat when challenged by Gilded
Youth (Gay Lothario —Beneficiary) at
the distance. Keith Voitre got the utmost
out of Archie Crofts’s colt, but the gal-
vanic energy, of Neville Percival kept
Conandale from faltering, and the bul-
lion-laden chestnut scored by a length.
Harry Telford - provided the third—
Bronze, a Windbag filly that he did not
consider class enough to nominate for
the Cups.
Winner of over £36,000 in stakes be-
fore retiring from the turf, Eurythmic
began his triumphs in the Eastern States
by a first-up Caulfield victory at long
odds. Jack Holt trained the son of
Eudorus —Bob Cherry. He nearly staged
another huge surprise in the Tanti Plate
at Epsom with Balkan Prince. This horse
from Westralia —where Eurythmic also
began his galloping career—was the rank-
est outsider in the field, bookmakers
lengthening his price from 20 to 1 to 50
to 1 without attracting business.
Following the pace set by Tom Dodger,
the chestnut four-year-old moved beauti-
fully to the front a furlong from home,
but Radiant Star (13 to 2) mowed him
down and scored by three-quarters of a
length. Balkan Prince is far removed
from being a Eurythmic, yet he may have
to be reckoned with in the Caulfield Cup
with Bst. 61b. and in the Flemington two-
miler with 61b. less. At the correspond-
ing age Eurythmic won the Caulfield Cup
with Bst. 91b.
Ever since he landed the Doncaster
Handicap with Simeon’s Fort in 1928
G. L. Scott has been vainly searching
for a worthy successor to that imported
stallion. Among the horses that let him
down badly was ! Mollison’s brother Cal-
mond, while Albanian, imported from
England, did not stand training. Two
years ago Scott gave 1700gns. for the
M.L. stallion Radiant Star (Hunting
Song —Spotlight), and reckoned that he
had got hold of a potential weight-for-
age star. Until Saturday this fellow was
somewhat of a washout, but the style in
which he disposed of Balkan Prince has
revived the owner’s hopes. Radiant Star,
trained in the same stable as Valiant
Chief, is in the Epsom (Bst.) and Caulfield
Cup (7st. 111 b.).
Guy Raymond, the St. Albans stud-
master, who will leave for England before
the end of the year to buy more blood-
stock, saw two thoroughbreds of his
breeding perform notably at Epsom.
Balkan Prince, second to Radiant Star,
and Villius, winner of the Parkdale
Welter, are by Gay Lothario. Racing
generously for once, Villius easily ac-
counted for his mile rivals. He is a
brother to Gay Star, recently sold to do
>tud duty in Westralia.
Charley Fitzroy is doing well with the
progeny of Stand By as jumpers. Some
months ago he captured several hurdle
races on end with Blackford ; at Epsom
he won over the battens with Pride of
the Plain, who belongs to a Mt. Gambier
(S.A.) sportsman. Second place went to
a former Sydney performer, Fickle Wal-
lace —a mere pony, but game.
* * * *
Hadrian, who has not trained on, is
out of the Epsom, for which he was the
early favorite. Pamelus steps into the
vacant place.
* * * *
Spear Prince redeemed his reputation
by winning Tattersall’s Cup at Brisbane
on Saturday, giving 231 b. and a three-
length beating to Un Brave, who is not
a bad sort of horse, and making excel-
lent time for ten furlongs—2min.
He is now coming to Sydney. But his
performance attracted far less attention
than that of Pamelus, who in his first
race for upwards of 12 months donkey-
licked a fair field in the Flying Handicap,
for which he was favorite at 7 to 4. He
carried 9st. 41b„ ran “six” in lmin. 13sec.,
and made an exhibition of second and
third (Auto Buz and Some Cure) at the
finish. About the same time Lough
Neagh was beating everything bar Talk-
ing in the Aveight-for-age race at Warwick
Farm. Pamelus was disqualified for not
beating Lough Neagh at w.f.a.
* * * Jjs
Carnarvon will puzzle punters no more..
He dropped dead at Flemington after
sprinting on the track. By Eastern
Monarch, Cragford’s sire, out of Starry
Night, Carnarvon was a good two-
year-old, but failed as a three-year-old,
though once or twice he showed that he
had not forgotten how to gallop.
* =l= * *
Lasting’s efforts in races immediately
subsequent to his being backed for the
Melbourne Clip were poor, but at .Vic-
toria Park on Wednesday he won a divi-
sion of the Maiden Handicap in rather
impressive style. He is a black colt by
Dark Fox—Maggie Love. Dark Fox has
sired two good stayers, Clever Fox and
Dark Chief, and Lasting may conceivably
prove himself equal to Dark Chief, who
was a somewhat unlucky second in the
1925 Sydney Cup. But he is a rather
green three-year-old and may require
time.
#*, * *
McCarten, the jockey, has been
awarded £5OO damages for libel published
in a Sydney sporting sheet, which had
accused him.of pulling, horses. . A.J.C.
officials called as witnesses for the jockey
gave him the highest character. He him-
self admitted having been disqualified
years ago for his riding of Royal
Despatch; but he said he hadn’t stopped
that horse and that the stewards of the
day had erred. That-is now the general
opinion, and, since the present stewards
and other A.J.C. officials have expressed
their confidence in McCarten, it seems
only a fair thing to ask that the disquali-
fication should be expunged from the
A.J.C. records.
Footbrawl
Though one round of the V.F.L. com-
petition remains to be played, there can
be no alteration to “the four.” Rich-
mond, downed the week previously by
Hawthorn and on Saturday by Geelong,
12- to 8-7, is out —for the first time
since 1927. Beaten one point—l 3-12 to
13- —by Carlton in a torrid last quar-
ter, Collingwood lost its first position on
the table to “Sowth,” which has been
tailing it for weeks. Though bucked by
its win over Richmond, Hawthorn was
just not good enough for “Sowth,” going
down 15-11 to 16-10. Third and fourth
are Carlton and Melbourne. Melbourne
found Footscray more troublesome than
it expected, but got home, 9-18 to 8-17.
The other matches were unimportant.
Essendon ran riot against Fitzroy, 17-16
to 9-16, and St. Kilda was just too good
for North, 15-18 to 15-7. ,
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs made a gallant
though belated attempt to enter the Syd-
ney Rugby Union semi-finals. It beat
Randwick 16-nil, 12 of the points com-
ing from tries. But a defeat of Uni-
versity was necessary to East, and the
Students won their match, though they
had anxious moments: Uni. 21, West 16.
So Randwick, Drummoyne, University
and West are “the four.” Drummoyne
found Manly easy enough, 32-14 ; Parra-
matta beat St. George, 21-17, and North
accounted for Gordon, 16-3.
The Union’s semi-final system is com-
plicated. On Saturday Randwick will
play Drummoyne and Uni. will meet
West. The loser of the ’Wick-Drum-
moyne game will then be matched with
the winner of the other affair, and the
winner of that will meet the winner of
’Wick-Drummoyne in a “grand” final.
West beat University by one point for the
club championship, decided on the first,
second and third grades, a 13-all draw
between West and the Students in Satur-
day’s second-grader putting West on
top among the clubs.
* * * He
The Australian Rugby Union team
touring Maoriland continues to strike
trouble with provincial teams ; Hawke’s
Bay trounced it 20-14. It was another
wet day.
* He H= He
“Basin Reserve": The All-Black team
to meet Australia in Wellington on Satur-
day is a hot one, including 10 of the
side that toured Britain last year. Six
of these are forwards, led by Manchester,
who was the star of the M.L. vanguard
on the tour. Of the balance only full-
back Pollock has been seen on this side.
He was here in 1932 as a centre and five-
eighth.
* * He *
“Wakatip”: The prowess of an old
Southland Rugby Union footballer was
mentioned at a Sydney Travel League
meeting while Invercargill was celebrat-
ing the golden jubilee of its Union.
Henry Braddon had told the League of
his touch with international affairs since
1869. E. L. Sellars, of Thos. Cook and
Sons, said that the speaker had not men-
tioned his international Rugby record.
H. Y. Braddon was a Southland All-
Black in 1884. He later represented New
South Whies. Old-timers still recall his
deadly tackling. V '
(Continued on next page.)
Norman Von Nida had his hour of
glory on Royal Queensland’s links when
he beat Sarazen, 2 up. No fluke about
it either ; and the former caddie is only
20.
Hi H-- * *
“Centre Court”: English tennis
writers have seized the occasion of the
departure of Sproule and Quist for Aus-
tralia to sum up the Australian Davis
Cup team. It is pleasant to note the
general chorus of praise for Quist, who
is rated as one of the world’s best half-
dozen and sure to rise to the top. Craw-
ford and McGrath, now in Australia
again, are scarcely mentioned.
* 1 * * *
“Outside Right”: Australian hockey
may be represented at the next Olympiad,
which will be held in Japan. The Aus-
tralians will have to affiliate with the
international hockey body, but that
should present no difficulties... .. ..


M. (and Rafferty) Rules
More dark meat for the “National'’
Boxing “Club”-—two Filipinos this time.
Until.’they qrrive—and afterwards if the
Federal Minister will stand it—the
negroes Kelly and Jones are to be kept
in Sydney for engagements. They have
both been in Australia for upwards of
12 months, but that does not seem to
matter to the Minister, although he as-
serted in Parliament that such bruisers
are admitted only for “limited periods.”
* * * *
“Snowy” Clarke, the Westralian ban-
tamweight, continues to win fights in Mel-
bourne. On Friday night he outpointed
Gill, one of the Newcastle twins of that
name —good-looking lads and good
boxers. Clarke will probably figure in
one of the preliminaries to the Ross-
Carroll fight for the welterweight cham-
pionship at Sydney.
* * * X
When W. M. Hughes, who is Minister
of Health, was at Adelaide, local
wrestlers sought him out and made the
extraordinary allegation that “a number”
of foreign grapplers who are descend-
ing on Australia are suffering from
trachoma. This is very hard to believe,
but Billy was sufficiently impressed
to promise that the foreigners would
be “carefully examined by the Com-
monwealth medical authorities before
they would be allowed to land.”
Trachoma has for many years been an
insurmountable barrier in the case of
newcomers seeking admission to the
U.S:A., and Australia can’t afford to be
less strict. One wrestler who appeared
in these parts not long ago had very bad
eyes.
Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: The leisurely Marylebone
selectors have included Ames in the side
for Australia —16 players and another to
home if another amateur is desired as a
vice-captain. If this is decided on, Wyatt,
batting in fine form again, is a pretty
certain choice. The M.C.C. has decided
to extend the tour to Maoriland, where
half a dozen matches will be played. In
view, of the fact that the All-Blacks lost
£3500 on the tour of Holmes’s team if
is hoped that the mana of an All-Eng-
land side may bring some of the lost
brass back. Ml, will return the visit
next year, the team leaving for England
in April. -
s{c ijC . 4* , •
“Lansdowne”: As 1 write, Derbyshire
looks like winning the county cricket
championship. It was on, top- in 1874,
when the competition was in its infancy
and the rules governing it very vague.
After that its descent was rapid, so much
so that for over a dozen years it fell out
of first-class ranks altogether. Eight
counties were originally ranked as first-
class ; Sussex is the only one that has
never landed the bacon, though Glo’ster-
shire’s period of pre-eminence dates back
nearly as far as Derbyshire’s, to the
’seventies and the heyday of the three
Graces. Warwickshire is the only com-
parative newcomer that has ever collared
the championship, and that was quarter
of a century ago:
9.: * *
“Tenth Slip”: Anyone interested will
have a chance to see some of the cricket
giants of the past in action on September
16, when teams led by Warren Bardsley
and Jack Gregory will meet in Sydney
in a one-day match at Pratten Park to
help the Bardsley-Gregory testimonial
fund. Other past players will include
Fairfax, Johnny Taylor, Kelleway,
Andrews, Macartney, Mailey and Waddy,
with some moderns like McCabe and
Fingleton thrown in.
* * X *
“Amateur Pro.”: Through Frank Tar-
rant, Fleetwood-Smith, Wendell Bill and
Alan Kippax have been offered coaching
jobs by the Maharajah of Patiala. Smith
will probably stay in Australia to try his
luck against the Englishmen, and Bill has
announced he is not having any. Kip-
pax, who was refused leave to go with
Tarrant’s team last year on the ground
that he wks wanted for Sheffields, and was
then discarded by the State selectors,
is not having any, either.
“Susie Swattit”: Australian cricket
girls must be as frugal of mind as John
Gilpin. Applications for the 15 vacancies
in the women’s cricket team for Eng-
land number 59, though £75 has to be
deposited or guaranteed in the case of
each applicant. There are 22 from
N. 14 from Westralia, 15 from Vic-
toria and the balance from Queensland
and S.A. Tassie has given the show a
miss. The girls have to supply all their
own gear as well, to say nothing of paint,
powder and lipstick, and the contrast be-
tween their fine sporting attitude and
that of the amateur-professional male in
cricket and other sports is refreshing.
"Shrewsbury”: There is sharp divi-
sion in Britain as to whether women
cricketers shall play without stockings or
not. Authorities insist on stockings, and
are backed by girls with varicose veins or
hairy legs. On the other side are ranged
those who have no reason for hiding
their shanks from the light of day; they
quote the example of women tennis-
players, who mostly go barelegged nowa-
days. There is a cross-bench party
which wears stockings but rolls them
below the knees. Developments are
eagerly awaited by the male element,
which realises that if stockings go skirts
will be succeeded by shorts.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Something new in V.F.L.
football cropped up when an umpire re-
ported a player in the Melbourne-North
Melbourne match for having “endeavored
to ridicule the field umpire by passing
remarks on his decisions.” Evidently the
player departed from the time-honored
method of impugning the ump.’s ancestry
and thought himself on safer ground if
he sought refuge in sarcastic criticism.
In the Rugby game comment of the kind
is as dangerous as direct abuse. At least
one player in an international match this
season was told to return to the dressing-
room for offering some more or less mild
advice to the tyrant with the whistle.
* # * *
“Preston”: Some time ago the V.F.A.
decided not to publish the names of um-
pires for the week-end fixtures. ; Some-
how or other the name of one of these
officials leaked into print prematurely the
other day, and
there was a sensa-
tion in V.F.A.
ranks. It is not
certain whether
police protection
was provided, but
the press records
that on the day
of the game the
official was es-
corted to the um-
pires’ dressing-
room and thence
to the field. No-
thing happened,
but the papers
refer to the inci-
dent .as “a dan-
gerous departure
from the estab-
ished procedure.”
* . *
“G 1 e n e 1 g”:
Australian Rules
amateurs he 1 d
their first inter-
state tourney at
Adelaide, Vi c-
toria, South Aus-
tralia, N.S.W. and
vVestralia compet-
ing. Victoria
beat South Aus-
tralia in the final,
and carried away
the Conder Shield.
* *
On another wet
ground the Aus-
tral i a n s beat
vVanganui—22-12.
The locals out-
classed the tourists in loose, pack and
linpout. The Australian backs saved the
day, McLean playing a wonderful game
and scoring three tries. Storey was also
in grand form at full-back, and the Vic-
torian Hammond proved a, real find at
five-eighth. After the match manager
Shaw congratulated the home team on
showing his men how to play a forward
game.
* * * *
“J.M.”: Frankham, the Auckland
half-back who broke round the blind
side to pave the way for Hadley’s try
against the Wallabies, has played consis-
tently good Rugby since his Auckland
Grammar School days. Charlie Oliver,
vice-captain of the 1935 All-Blacks, de-
scribes Frankham as a “splendid little
player.” Many Aucklanders who have
followed Grammar Old Boys in the last
few years know Frankham to be as re-
liable as he is game, and believe him to
be a better wet-weather half than Corner.
* si: * *
“Old Q.”: . Full-back Storey’s try for
Australia against Auckland has evoked
a lot of press blither about the alleged
changes in the methods of Rugby which
made such a: feat possible: it was “un-
known in other days.” Forty years ago
Queensland full-backs, inspired thereto by
coaches like Billy Warbrick, quite fre-
quently crossed the line, in club matches
at least, players like McCowan, Paul and
Ivory habitually running up ih attack
with backs .and forwards as a matter of
course. N.S.W. in those days played a
much more stereotyped game than
Bananaland. Its full-backs were chosen
for defensive qualities.
“Der Jong”: I’m getting a bit sick of
these Maori protests against the South
African disinclination to meet them in
football. If the Afrikanders like to draw
these distinctions that is their business.
In their own part of the world the Zulus
accept the situation, and so dp other fine
races like the Basutos. And I place the
Zulu ahead of the vociferous gentleman
across the Tasman. His military organisa-
tion when the white first came in con-
tact with it was a model for many Euro-
pean countries. He was never a canni-
bal or keeper of slaves, and he was
a large-scale agriculturist and herdsman.
Most of these attributes he retains to-day
in the teeth of civilisation, and his honesty
and the high moral standard of his women
are still proverbial among South
Africans. Above all, he knows the worth
of reticence, something the Maori has
not yet been able to master.
“Tenakoe”: One of the jobs facing the
Australian footballers in M.L. is the
settlement of the Springbok programme
in the two countries next season. The
’Boks are talking of bringing 32 men. The
limit for a touring team under the inter-
national rule is 29. In any case, it is not
likely that the tourists will be asked to
play more than 27 games in the two
countries. Probably they are thinking
of casualties on the, hard Australian
grounds, but there is no danger of the
kind in M.L. It is expected that the
“Take the flag out , Myrtle!”
Afrikanders will be here early in June.
They are talking of picking a block of
their team in October and the rest before
the boat sails.
“Stoush”: Many Australians who saw
them were far from satisfied with the
methods of English League forwards, but
at least it can be said more than one
local player did his best to outdo them.
In Maoriland complaints of the rough-
house methods of the recent tourists are
loud and high. Particularly is the so-
called “stiff-arm tackle” objected to.
This amounts to smashing an opponent
across the face with the forearm under
the pretence of tackling him high. It is
just as foul as an open punch. One M.L.
journal drily doubts “whether the visit did
the code any good in the Dominion.”
-
The Nineteenth Hole
The Maoriland contingent made a
good start in the women's golf champion-
ships in Adelaide by taking the four-
somes. Miss Kay and Mrs. Fullerton
Smith (Betty Gaisford as was) returned
a card of 162, three strokes ahead of the
N.S.W. pair, Mrs. Clive .Robinson and
Mrs, Clements.
_
“Sandringham'’: Naismith won the
professional golf championship of Vic-
toria, though not long out of bed from
an operation. It was his second consecu-
tive win, and he made it evident that his
trip to America with the professional
team has greatly improved his game.
Victorians tip him for the Australian
open and professional titles.
* * :J: ❖
“Hotham”: There are 131 entries for
the Australian golf championships at Mel-
bourne next month, 119 being for the
open title. Sarazen is in both open and
professional events, but Helen Hicks did
not nominate for either.
* % * * ,
“Divot Digger”: Sarazen considers the
standard of British golf has improved
greatly in the last two or three years,
while the American game has been slip-
ping. The Yankee tourist rates Horna-
brook and Ferrier two of the finest ama-
teurs he has seen, and strongly recom-
mends a U.S.A. tour. Hornabrook is
well known on this side of the Tasman ;
he must have improved his game con-
siderably. One would like to hear how
Gene classes Harry Williams, whom he
is likely to meet in the Australian open.
$ * :j< *
“Starboard”: “Hoylake” cites the case
of a stickler for the rules (B. 24/6/'36)
whose ball rested against the edge of
the hole. He would have saved himself
a stroke if he had more closely observed
the laws of the game and insisted that
the cup be so set that its edge was at
least ’ a half-inch beneath the green’s
surface.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Olympic champion
Lovelock has caused a mild sensation by
saying that the alleged slowness of grass
tracks as opposed to cinders is a myth.
With all respect, one suspects the Maori-
lander of a bit of Shavian posing. The
best answer to it is that there is not a
single record over accepted distances
standing in the books as having been
done on the grass, though Jack Donald-
son’s name appears as having run the
100 in 9fsec. at Melbourne on two occa-
sions. Lovelock makes much of having
run for years on grass before he saw his
first cinder, track in Europe. But all his
records' have been done on cinders.
* * - * *:
“Outfield”: Our baseballers are still
hoping to get a couple of pro-
fessional teams across from the U.S.A.
for the Sydney 1938 spree. Fitting in the
trip is the trouble. President Frick, of
the National Baseball Association, sug-
gests that a couple of the major Ameri-
can teams make the trip during their
winter training season. This would mean
leaving about January 1, with exhibitions
on the journey, and reaching Australia in
February. A three-week programme in
this country would enable the teams to
start for home again early in March.
A visit of the sort would be a splendid
lift to a fine game, and should help to
begin the establishment of an enclosed
baseball ground in each of the big cities.
* * ❖ *
The bowlers of Australia are hereby
summoned to roll up to Adelaide’s cen-
tenary tourney, which will run from De-
cember 26 to January 2. There will be
three championships, singles, pairs and
rinks, and other events which will give
every visitor a chance of showing his
form. Special rail and steamer fares
have been arranged for, and intending
contestants are advised to book hotel
accommodation early. Inter-State entries
close on December 4.
* * *
“Blade Sight”: Australian riflemen,
once in the forefront at Bisley, are to
have another chance there next year
after a lengthy absence. The money for
the trip—£soo0 —has been contributed by
J. Woolcott Forbes, of Sydney, whose
generosity in the support of rifleshooting
is known throughout Australia. The an-
nouncement was made by that eminent
military authority Archdale Parkhill, but
he said nothing as to whether his Gov-
ernment, which found £2OOO for the
Olympic Games fund, will supplement
Woolcott Forbes's contribution to Aus-
tralian defence.
}J; :J: *
“Blue Chalk”: Les Hayes has dropped
out of competitive billiards, and will not
play in the Australian championships.
This means that he will not be eligible
to represent Australia in the Empire
championship at Johannesburg, which he
won in 1929. Hayes won the Australian
championship six times and the N.S.W.
nine times.
:{: % &
“Curl”: Weight-lifting records are
being made by Maoriland strong men.
Hogan, of Auckland, improved the
middleweight world record for the pull-
over at arms’ length by sJlb. to 145 Jib.
H. Cleghorn bettered Australasian records
for the heavyweight two-hand military
press, the two-hand snatch and two-hand
clean and jerk. K. J. Webb, a Welling-
ton featherweight, surpassed the Austra-
lian right-arm curl record of 491 b. by
741 b. To prove it was no; fluke, he
hoisted the same poundage with his left.


mm
FAILS 90a TO
$
uMMws:
Pelvic Arches Broken
15 Weeks in Children’s Hospital
5 Years a Nervous Wreck
BIDOMAK Brings
Back Speedily to Vigorous
Happy Boyhood!
IP
m
m
m
m
I
■
i
*!«
The remarkable medical history
of Billy, 10-years-old son of Mr.
and Mrs. Bott, of Leichhardt,, has
amazed every one of the neighbors
who have known him since he
fell 90ft. from a railway bridge
five years ago.
Interviewed at home, Mr. and
Mrs. Bott gladly and freely gave
permission for Billy's story to
be tdld to the world for the sake
of other parents, whose children
might be benefited by the treat-
ment which finally resulted in
Billy’s return to vigorous happy
boyhood.
Mr. Bott tells the story this way :
; ‘Tite school which Billy attended
was some distance from our
home. To reach it, he had to
cross the railway line at Lilyfield
by means of an overhead bridge
spanning a deep cutting.
Adventurous youngsters often
crawled under the fence and
played on the edge of the cut.
90 Feet Down! Down!
Down!
Billy did more—he climbed on to
the brick parapet of the bridge
and, leaning over, lost his balance
and fell sheer down to the railway
track 90ft. below. Providentially,
he fell in a patch of soft mud.
We believe that this was the only
thing which saved his life.
This we learned afterwards, but
to continue. As my wife was
returning from a visit to town by
tram on the day Billy fell, an
ambulance passed, bell clanging,
and obviously in urgent haste.
Little my wife knew that Billy
was the patient (his life ebbing
away) who was being so swiftly
rushed to expert aid. She was
worried on her return home to
find Billy had not returned from
school, and her worry became in-
creased as time crept on. She
was nearly frantic with anxiety
by the time I arrived home at
6.30. There was only one thing
to do. I got in touch with the
police and found after many
inquiries that a boy answering
to Billy's description had been
admitted to the Children’s
Hospital, but was not expected
to live the night.
Rush to Hospital
By car, my wife and I rushed to
the hospital. It was our son!
Both his pelvic arches had been
fractured and there seemed little
hope for his recovery. He had
lain on the tracks until his white
shirt had attracted the attention
of a signalman, who had dragged
him clear of the lines as a train
rushed under the bridge from
which he had fallen.
And there he was at the hospital
—unable to recognise his mother
or me —a wee, small urchin of
five lying wan and white.
Fight for Life
I can’t pay a high enough tribute
to the. doctors and nurses who
pulled him through those first
desperate days when his life was
in the balance and who so bril-
liantly worked so that Billy’s
terrible injuries would not leave
him a lifelong cripple.
Fifteen Weeks in Hospital
It was fifteen weeks before Billy
was discharged from the hospital
and we brought him home, with
thankfulness for the sparing of
his life.;
Terrible Night Terrors
But we found that the shock to
his nervous system had been
terrible. He was a sheer bundle
ol nerves—-he could not sleep a(
night, or, if he did, he would fall
into a fitful slumber only to
awake screaming from terrible
nightmares.
He was like this for nearly five
years. We did not know what to
do. Nothing seemed to give any
relief, and the strain on the boy
as well as on ourselves was
rapidly becoming unbearable. We
had tried almost everything when
we were recommended to try
Bidomak.
Miraculous Results from
BIDOMAK
We did so, not because we
thought it would really do any
good, but in hope that perhaps
it might. But 1 tell you, it was
a miracle. Almost at once Billy
calmed down—he began to sleep
quietly and peacefully and his
night terrors left him.
In words it is difficult to make
you understand just how much
Bidomak has done for us. One
would need to have experienced
all I’ve told you to realise how
much Billy went through. But
he’s all right now. Just look at
him.”
We did, and to see that happy,
carefree fit youngster made us
proud to think that Bidomak had
wrought so wonderfully.
The story of Billy Bott, as we
have told it above, may be
verified in detail by anyone who
is interested. It was offered to
us by his parents without solicita-
tion and in gratitude for what
Bidomak had done. No payment
was made for permission to
publish the facts. Mr. and Mrs.
Bott will be content if their son’s
BENEFIT GUARANTEED
or
YOU PAY NOTHING
So many nerve sufferers have obtained immedi-
ate relief from BIDOMAK that if you do not
benefit from the first bottle we will refund your
money within 14 days of purchase on its return,
nearly empty, to the Douglas Drug Co. Thus
we guarantee you positive relief or you pay
nothing.
ABO\F.—Lool; at the bright smiling; face of Billn Bott
o* he is to—dbg, shown here with his mother and father
just, outside their pleasant home in 240 Catherine Street.
Mchhardt. No one could picture a finer specimen of
Australian boyhood.
A’V LEFT.—lllustration shows the deep cutting of the
bridge from, v.irwh Billy fell. The terrible distance is
indicated by the fact that it is more than two and a half
times the height of the tall signal in the centre of the
illustration.
case points to the value of
Bidomak for every case where
children, or adults either for that
matter, are run down and nervy
and need the finest tonic of all to
make them fit and well.
Get a bottle
BIDOMAK
TO - DAY
It will not only do
you good*, but it
tastes so good that
you’ll enjoy taking
it. All chemists or
stores sell it.
3/- FOR A BIG
BOTTLE.
© o
ALL >
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
3
m
MM
me
mm
in
»w'**
»&&&■.
**x : >v>y%<
><vS
iMi
»<***»
BIDOMAK
Bidomak is a product of the DOUGLAS DRUG CO., Adelaide, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
Sole Tasmanian Wholesale Agents: L. PAIRTHORNE & SON PTY. LTD.,
Launceston.


Meet
15hQ
■f
Phantom
in
HUUHAL^N
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Now on Sale
w
X
The Long White Cloud
Mr. Savage’s “Revolution”
In its first session, which lasted 12
weeks, Maoriland’s Labor Government
pul through 15 Acts, and a round dozen
were important policy measures.
Currency and credit passed under Gov-
ernment control with the Reserve Bank
Amendment Act; application of that con-
trol was exerted in the Primary Products
Marketing Act, by which the dairy indus-
try is guaranteed the prices announced
with the Budget on August 4; and
further advances to settlers and home-
builders were made possible by the State
Advances Corporation Act. That
measure provides also for the remodelling
of the Mortgage Corporation to bring all
Government lending activities under the
same control.
National services such as relief of un-
employment, broadcasting, railways, road
and air transport were removed from
board to direct Ministerial control. Labor
laws were reorganised to reduce maxi-
mum working hours —now 40 per week
except on farms and in shops—increase
minimum rates of pay and fix a basic
wage. Temporary rent restrictions were
imposed pending the adoption of a
national housing scheme.
The Budget announced increased social-
service and public-works expenditure, in-
come-tax increases and the re-enactment
of graduated land tax.
For speed, this rivals a change of gov-
ernment in a South American State. Its
endurance will depend on the capacity of
"... And now it's three for the Labor Government and
one for us, Jim!"
Maoriland industry to stand reduction of
working hours without reduction of pay,
and increased taxes. This is doubted.
But there is one thing for which all
Maorilanders praise the Government —its
avowed intention of planning defence
measures in co-operation with Australia
and co-ordination with other parts of the
Empire.
The cableman mentions that at a
Maorilanders’ cocktail party in honor of
J. E. Lovelock, High Commissioner
Jordan wondered “whether the day will
come when our country will have a pair
of running-shoes incorporated in its coat-
of-arms.” Minister Semple may know —
he handed running-shoes to members of
the Railway, Transport, Unemployment
and Broadcasting Boards.
jj» *! ; •
“Kiwit”: According to H. T. Arm-
strong, the Minister of Labor, Maori-
land’s Agricultural Workers Bill does not
prevent a farmer paying as much as he
likes. For that matter, no bill can com-
pel the farmer to employ men he does
not need. With the prospect of approxi-
mate increases of 33 1-3 p.c. in labor
costs, and 20 p.c. in maintenance and liv-
ing expenses, cow-farmers intend em-
ploying fewer men —in some instances,
no men —and their wives and children
are preparing to do their bit in the sheds.
Still others, knowing by the price guaran-
tee the returns they can expect, believe
they will find it more economical to milk
fewer cows than to employ the labor
necessary on their old herds. 1 have yet
to meet a farmer who will now admit he
voted Labor!
* * * *
“Elver”: Sydney and Melbourne poli-
ticians and the heads of different State
departments are keenly interested in
Maoriland’s legislative experiments if in-
quiries at the local offices of the M.L.
Trade and Tourist Bureau can be taken
as a guide. Labor’s various amending
bills and its application of the Primary
Products Marketing Act are being closely
observed. Further, N.S.W. Premier
Stevens, who is at present in America, in-
tends delaying his return to Australia
while he spends a week or so in M.L.
* * * *
“Whip”: H. S. S. Kyle, Riccarton’s
M.P., predicts that Maoriland’s Labor
Government will be in an unhappy posi-
tion in two years. Expenditure, he says,
will be up £5,000,000 this year, and he
doesn’t think the income-tax increases
and the re-enactment of graduated land
tax will bring in the revenue anticipated.
Kyle went on to say that one of the Gov-
ernment’s “severest tasks is the placing
in employment of youths from 18 to 20
years old.” But one of the reasons why
M.L. took a chance with Labor was
that the Coalition Government proved
incapable of meeting this very issue.
* * * *
“F.”: I read that “the leader of the
Opposition, Mr. Forbes, owing to early
closing, was unable to speak in the debate
on the Labor Budget.” Another hotel
argument for late closing?
“Super.”: The gospel of pasture im-
provement, preached for many years by
such Maoriland Agriculture Department
officers as J. M. Smith, has been carried
to Australia by members of the farmers’
party bound for S. Aus. In the Illawarra
(N.S.W.) dairying country, they found
scanty evidence of pasture-improvement
work, and were soon talking of top-
dressing and increased production. Years
of intensive campaigning were necessary
in M.L. to convince farmers that their
pastures could be improved, but when
top-dressing was followed by production
increases they soon fell into line. W. H,
Bracey, a Hokianga dairy-farmer, told
Kiama farmers that, in his part of ML.,
it was “top-dressing, more top-dressing
and still more top-dressing—and it pays
all the time.”
* * * *
“J.M.”: When Rima Wakarua, who
died recently, was contesting the Western
Maori seat in 1932, he was an unsus-
pecting debt collector for a Taranaki
newspaperman who was reporting his
campaign. Latter was wrangling with a
Wellington newspaper over payment for
contributed articles. Wakarua asked him
to insert an advertisement in the Welling-
ton paper and paid up on receipt of a
telephoned quote. The scribe adopted the
unethical but satisfactory method of de-
ducting the amount in dispute from
Wakarua’s advert isemenl - mo.ney,. apd
sending on the slim remainder. The
office then complained that it had been
overcharged for its articles. Correspon-
dence ceased when another letter went
south containing a bill for the forgotten
telephone call. Nobody enjoyed this
more than Wakarua, then chief of the
Ngarauru tribe, when he was told of it.
He had paid for the telephone call.
* * * *
“Waimate”: Nearly 1500 tons of care-
fully-selected potatoes have been dis-
patched from Timaru (M.L.) to Monte-
video to test the South American market.
Local prices have increased by more than
£1 a ton, and in an endeavor to maintain
supplies at lower prices the Government
is restricting further export. The Monte-
video market was tried some years ago.
Returns were then disappointing, but the
latest shipment has been inspected for
possible diseases and more care has been
exercised in the maintenance of quality.
One produce firm has announced its in-
tention of sending a representative to
study the South American market with a
view to future expansion.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Just a few days before the
report that a Maoriland missionary, G. C
Mitchell, had been killed in the Sidamo
province of Abyssinia, his brother, the
Rev. D. F. Mitchell, of the Armadale
Baptist Church, Melbourne, was advised
of the fears held for the safety of mis-
sionaries working outside the area con-
trolled by Italian troops. The letter was
from the missionary’s wife, formerly
Myrtle Jenkin, a M.L. school-teacher,
who, with a son born last year, is still in
Addis Ababa. Her husband was the
second missionary to penetrate the
Sidamo province, and he used the trans-
lations of his predecessor, Glen Cain, to
teach the natives. The missionary and
the Melbourne clergyman are sons of
F. J. Mitchell, Blockhouse Bay, Auck-
land.
* * * *
“Waitangi”: Australian complaints
over the treatment of aboriginals and
their tribal lands round the Tennant (B.
19/8/’36) serve to emphasise the general
satisfaction attending Maoriland hand-
ling of what has always been a knotty
problem. Large blocks of native-owned
land are administered by Maori Land
Boards; sections, in some instances, are
leased to white settlers and in others are
worked by the Maoris, individually or
co-operatively. Auckland Supreme Court
has just investigated the affairs of a
£lOO,OOO estate left by a Hastings Maori.
The net balance in the settled estate was
said to be £95,582, mostly in mortgages ;
trustees watch the interests of the 19-
year-old daughter who inherits this from
her Maori father. Art extreme case, it
is true, but I have still to hear of a
parallel among the Australian abos.
* * * *
“Cruise”: Although M. Limage, the
Sydney manager of Messageries Mari-
times, is unaware of any proposal to ex-
tend French shipping between Sydney,
Maoriland and Tahiti, shipping-circle
rumors still suggest that subsidised
French interests will step in when the
Union Co.’s Makura and Maunganui
abandon the Pacific run. Regular ser-
vices between France and Tahiti are at
present conducted via Panama; they
could be extended to Australia. Such ex-
tension would hardly be profitable, but
France might subsidise its liners as liber-
ally as does the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Waikato”: The Bryant name (B.
26/8/’36) is associated with aspects of
M.L. life more serious than mountaineer-
ing. An uncle of the L. V. Bryant who
cracked his ribs and an ankle on j
Ruapehu is Dan Bryant, of Hamilton.
Dan Bryant organises an annual seasi
camp for needy children, and has als
engaged in the development of unim-
proved and deteriorated Waikato lan
by the subsidised and co-operqtive set e-
ment of unemployed. He is founder,
chairman and honorary manager of the
Waikato Land Settlement Society, whic i
at the end of its second year had asse s
valued at £38,236. More land has since
been acquired, cottages and sheds an
fences have been erected. Groups o
men worked together to improve the
land: under Dan Bryant’s keen eye stoc v
transactions netted the society a
profit of £4413 in two years; and the
32 men who will be permanently
on subdivisions by next winter will be
given the titles to their sections.
Other practical farmers and businessmen
share with Dan Bryant the honorary
adminstration of the scheme.
* * *
Dairy produce made in M.L. alter
July 31 is Government property when it
reaches the holds of export ships, and
LESLIE LEFEAUX.
the legislation which accomplished this
makes Leslie Lefeaux the farmers’ pay-
master. Under Labor’s Primary Products
Marketing Act, cheques paying for the
produce go to the factories from the
Reserve Bank’s dairy industry account;
money received for the overseas sales
will be credited to it. And so Leslie
Lefeaux, governor of the M.L. Reserve
Bank, assumes control of one of the
largest pay-rolls in the world.
* * * *
“Malta”: Jerry Pentland, one of
Elliott White Springs’s fighting “War
Birds,” is back in Sydney after flying
and goldmining in New Guinea. Maori-
land lost another member of Bishop’s old
circus when Squadron-leader M. C.
McGregor crashed at Rongotai aero-
drome, Wellington, late last year. M.L.
organised a national fund to make edu-
cational provision for Mac’s children, and
nearly £5165 was contributed from all
parts of the country. A unique feature of
this response was that the gross amount
was* also the net amount; incidental ex-
penses were met by the workers who
organised the appeal. This was a fine
tribute to one of Maoriland’s pioneer
airmen.


advt
The
“Bonser ’
Stockwhip
Made of hand-plaited Kangaroo Hide. 8-
strand, Bft. long-. The handle is 8-plait,
and stool-lined to give strength. A fine
stockwhip for hard work.
Price
Boy’s Size, 6ft.
21/-
18/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal .
September Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
THE WOOL QUESTION
WILL SHARE PRICES HOLD?
TRADING IN COMMODITY FUTURES
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
, HOTEL
.cvrtuFWi
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Lasseter’s “Reef”
Westralia’s Minister for Mines (S. W.
Munsie) last week released the report
made by H. A. Ellis, Government Geolo-
gist, on the alleged finding of Lasseter’s
“reef” by Border Gold’s expedition. The
location this time was the Petermann
Ranges (W.A.), about 600 miles from
Alice Springs.
Mr. Ellis said that every opportunity
was given Border Gold and its agents to
take him to the reef, to which a road
was supposed to have been made; he
found neither road nor reef after several
months' journeying. The formation
which Hummerston pointed out from an
aeroplane was later “unmistakably
reached” by land, and proved to be a
barren sandstone ridge.
“The reappearance of Hummerston
with aeroplanes at Petermann Ranges
was inconsistent with information, given
to the Mines Department by the co., that
Hummerston was no longer connected
with it. Evidence suggested that the ar-
rangement for Hummerston subsequently
to point out the reef from an aeroplane
was made before he left Alice Springs for
Adelaide in May.
“The use of aeroplanes was unneces-
sary, since the road was supposed to have
been made, and the conclusion is that
the reef was sighted from an aeroplane
to enhance share values.”
Leaving “conclusions” out of it, it is a
fact that the public paid up to £250 for
the £5O shares of Border Gold Reefs on
the strength of information little more
definite than that the “reef” had been
sighted from an aeroplane. There was
optimistic talk from the co. itself and
affiliates ; but that punters should have
been favorably influenced by a reported
bird’s-eye view of an alleged mining
proposition points to a credulity rarely
revealed —in other than those who have
believed in the Lasseter myth. Even
irom the ground real reefs are often diffi-
cult to appraise. A worm’s-eye view gets
closer to facts.
Eye- and Ear-advertising
Up to 1925 it was the aim of national
advertisers in all countries to catch the
eye of prospective buyers; since then
wireless has caused an onslaught on the
ear. As a novelty radio advertising could
be used almost indiscriminately among
all types of prospects ; now that wireless
is commonplace people are more selective
in what they will listen to. Inappropriate
propaganda is liable to offend the ear
more quickly than the eye. What does
not interest in newspaper advertising
can be skipped without breaking away
from the editorial “programme”; with
radio it means changing over to a dif-
ferent station.
“Eye” and “ear” forms of advertising
are beginning to sort themselves out. In
the last two or three years poorer people
have bought radio sets on a large scale,
and “necessities” —food and chemist-shop
articles—have been widely advertised
over the air. One American “network”—
the N.B.C.—received 18 p.c. of its adver-
tising revenue from these sources in
1927; in 1931 46 p.c.; in 1935 66 p.c.
In 1931 $11,860,000 was paid to the
N.B.C. in advertising food and “drugs” ;
$13,746,000 for publicity in respect of
motor fuels, laundry soaps, motor cars,
tobacco, sweets, clothing, furniture,
paints, etc. In 1935 $20,783,000 went
over the air on behalf of food and
drugs ; only $10,365,000 in respect of all
those other items, which represented
34 p.c. of the total outlay, as against
54 p.c. in 1931.
It would seem that people with money
to spend “are not amused” to a great
extent by radio advertising. They object
to giving their time to publicity inter-
ludes. The pill has to be made more
and more sugar-coated, and therefore
more expensive and less striking. Seeing
things in “black-and-white,” at one’s
leisure, seems still to make the more
favorable impression.
At G. J. Coles’s annual meeting in Mel-
bourne J. B. Tait, a shareholder, asked
the chairman (among other things) what
the total fees, salaries and bonuses of the
directors were for the past two years.
Mr. Tait said he had information to the
effect that £63,000 (8f p.c. on ord. capi-
tal) was split up in 1934-35, and £57,000
(7 p.c.) in 1935-36. He “would not say
that he could prove the figures,” but sug-
gested that if they were correct they
"More'n 'alf of ’em ’ere, Tummas, don't know the way in out of a
shower of rain."
represented a disproportionate and in-
ordinate amount. Mr. A. W. Coles re-
plied that the figures quoted might or
might not be correct. The board had not
issued them. Directors’ fees were £4OO
a year, but he would not disclose the
amount of salaries or bonuses paid to
working directors. In the bonus con-
tracts no right existed to any part of the
profits until a certain figure had been
reached. The objection, the chairman
said, to giving detailed information was
that it would be invaluable to competi-
tors. But information on working-
directors’ contracts, expressed in percen-
tages or proportions, could hardly do
any harm, especially as the N.'S.W. In-
dustrial Commission is about to embark
on a chain-store inquiry.
“The last nation to industrialise, Japan
has equipment far ahead of any other
country. It is also making very good
machinery for itself.” That, pointed out
by a touring textile engineer who
touched at Sydney the other day on his
way home from Japan, is one of the
factors totally ignored or evaded in the
gabble of Federal politicians. It isn’t
only “living standards” that make Japan
such a powerful competitor in the
world’s cotton-textile markets. Obsoles-
cence elsewhere is a tremendous item.
But Australian Governments are great
upholders of obsolescence —and over-
capitalisation, until someone happens to
mention cement.
* * * *
Kandos Cement’s satisfactory figures
for the year to June 30 had not time to
be affected by the cut in duties ; elimina-
tion of the preferential tariff is proposed
as from Dec. 1. It is also worth reiterat-
ing that the average div. for the past six
years has been only 6 p.c. The Federal
Ministry’s success in finding wrong trees
to bark up has been almost unbelievable
lately.
sfc sf: ❖
Stocks extraordinarily out of keeping
with prevailing sharemarket buoyancy
are Kandos Cement (16s. shares at 205.)
and Cumberland Paper ords. (£1 shares
at 30s. 6d.). Yields on present divs. are
8 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively. One
industry has already received the atten-
tion of the Tariff Board ; in the other
such attention (or something) is feared.
* * * *
A week or so ago a N. S. Wales poli-
tician referred to the great quantity of
coal being raised in the State—he
regarded it as an indication of returning
prosperity. It may mean better times
for some, but as for coal itself, present
cut-throat competition has produced con-
ditions never before known in the in-
dustry. Coal has been sold as low as Bs.
a ton at pithead. Heavy colliery losses
are the rule. Hetton Bellbird, with a
splendid mine, showed a loss of £19,529
last term, as against £18,748 and £4857 in
the two preceding years. This co. has the
Australian Gas contract. A coal-loading
plant at Hexham is expected to cut costs
next term, but Hetton scrip fell Is. 2d.
(to 4s. 9d.) last Thursday.
Jjc ijc
The steadiest sharemarket leader in
the Commonwealth is Broken Hill Prop.
Around 755., the fully-paids have regis-
tered fluctuations of inside a shilling or
so for weeks. Meantime, Australian
Glass and G. J. Coles ords., somewhat
higher in price, have jazzed about within
a 10s. range. B.H.P. put £2,167,597 into
shares in other cos. last term a sum
greater than half its paid capital—and
these new investments are turning in little
or nothing by way of dividends. Here
is a potential profit-stabiliser for the
future.
* * * *
U.S.A. is reported not to be increasing
the price of copper; States producers
nevertheless aim at lifting output by
one tenth. There was a reaction in the
price of the red metal, but electrolytic
has steadied above £42 sterling a ton in
London, and standard is around £38 —
which is considered overseas to be a fair
price. Mt. Lyell should be doing well
at present rates. Nearly all its 14,000-
ton output of electrolytic is used in the
Commonwealth at a price which should
return around £55 (Aust.) per ton. In
1934-35, after deducting value of gold
recovered, all-in costs were a shade over
£43 a ton of metal. Assuming that cheap
mining from the opencut has offset the
somewhat lower grade milled lately, there
should be nearly £lO a ton profit on
copper now produced. Including returns
from fertiliser, etc., investments, profit
for the twelvemonth to September 30
is likely to exceed 10 p.c. on capital.
Shareholders had a lean time during the
depression. Provided world production
is not increased, present prospects are
encouraging.
*
After rising to a record price of 515.,
David Jones ords. have slipped back to
455. The sharemarket seems to have
dumped whatever it expected would
result from the co.’s new land purchase.
At 455. the shares still return 4.4 p.c.,
and if extras —share issues or div. in-
creases—are not forthcoming shortly, it
will be merely a deferment of benefits.
* * * *
At 12s. 6d. last week Mt. Morgan 2s.
6d. shares were the lowest in the co.’s
recent history. Heavy rains in May and
June and lower grade of ore treated in
July have affected recoveries. Last quar-
terly div., paid on July 20, was at the un-
changed rate of 60 p.c. p.a. When the
scrip was in ss. denominations it rose to
over 40s.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Peters Delicacy (Vic.) scattered most of
the year’s profit in an 8 p.c. (up 2 p.c.) dis-
tribution. The market for the 4s. 9d. contribs
showed little change at Bs. 4d.
Beau Monde ss. shares were strong around
-35., following the new share issue announce-
ment.
Emperor (Fiji) shares sold at 17s. 6d. at
one stage, the firmest price for months, then
weakened to 16s. Bd. Highest price for the
10s. shares has been 285., and lowest 9s. Bd.
North Broken Hill’s final declaration
brought the year’s div. to 771 p.c.—lss. fid.
a share. Not since 1926, when 19s. was passed
to shareholders, has such a handsome distri-
bution been made. Metal prices continue en-
couraging.
Dunlop Perdriau’s 5 p.c. ord. distribution
caused a firming in the scrip to 18s. 9d.
Mammoth (Tennant Creek) announced that
the battery was “operating exceedingly well.”
and that values on the plates were showing up
promisingly. “There is an ample supply of
water and an excellent team of men.’’
National Bank shares showed pronounced
firmness after a long period of uncertainty.
Upper Watut shares weakened to 3s. 2d
on heavy sales in all States. The market, nervy
about NeW Guinea alluvial shows, especially
since there had been disappointments of vary-
ing degree in connection with Sandy Creek,
Sunshine and Upper Sepik, quickly withdrew
support when Bulolo relinquished its option.
Upper Watut management stated that the
original mining policy would be carried on.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE arid GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Princess Comes Across”
Wanda Nash, an ex-Broadway sou-
brette (Carole Lombard), is a passenger
on the transatlantic luxury liner Mam-
moth. She is masquerading as Princess
Olga of Sweden, having, as such, landed
a contract with a Hollywood film co.
Fellow-passengers are a Concertina King
(Fred Mac Murray), detectives represent-
ing five European nations and Japan, and
a blackmailer. Blackmailer, who has
threatened both princess and king, is
found murdered in princess’s cabin. A
murderer is known to be aboard, and a
mysterious stranger is snooping about,
sometimes masquerading as a steward and
Fredric March as Bothwell in “Mary of
Scotland.”
listening to the detectives. After about
ah hour and a half it transpires that the
murderer is one of the least suspected
people in the cast, and that princess and
king are headed for matrimony. Acting
of the principals is smooth, and good
support is given by Alison Skipworth as
the princess’s lady-in-waiting, George
Barbier as ship’s captain, Douglass Dum-
brille as a detective and William Fraw-
ley as the Concertina King’s olfsider.
Mac Murray, in addition to faking some
remarkably clever concertina-playing,
does a spot of crooning with his own
voice, but the offence is brief-lived. At
Sydney Prince Edward.
“Early to Bed”
A typical Ruggles-Boland comedy.
Charles is a salesman of glass-eyes, mar-
ried after 20 years of courtship to Mary.
Long delay is due to Charles’s dark
secret —he is a sleep-walker and has been
told by psychiatrists that his subcon-
scious self might turn into a tiger while
nocturnally roaming. Honeymoon is
spent at a sanatorium, Lake Wakannam-
miboogee, because a millionaire (George
Barbier) who can give an order for two
million dozen glass-eyes is staying there.
Charles gets the order several times, but
something always crops up to provoke
the millionaire to cancel it. One of the
happenings is a murder in the garden
which Mary does her best to prove was
committed by Charles’s client, for she
fears Charles did it himself. Ruggles, in
his deliberate, serious, slow-speaking way,
exudes rich absurdities. His consistency
is absolute, his comedy never slopping
into farce. Miss Boland gushes as un-
discriminatingly as ever, and the fantastic
yarn has sufficient logic and cohesion in
it to hold interest. Also at the Prince
Edward.
“Mary of Scotland”
Hollywood’s counterblast to “Tudor
Rose,” and, as might be expected, less
convincing but a lot more dramatic than
the English film. It sticks very closely to
history. Mary (Katharine Hepburn),
Bothwell (Fredric March), Moray,
Huntly, Darnley, Throgmorton, Knox.
Rizzio and a score of others, including
Queen Elizabeth, do what the historians
record. If liberties are taken they are
taken with motives, and on the motives
of Mary Stuart and Bothwell there is
room for a wide range of conjecture.
Miss Hepburn’s Mary is a spirited lady
who speaks her mind, whether facing the
lords of her Court, John Knox or the
judges at Fotheringay. March gives one
of his finest performances as the gallant
chieftain who was Mary’s third choice ; a
slight Doric flavor in speech is part of
a clever study.
Settings, though all studio-produced,
are elaborate and picturesque, and cos-
tuming is excellent. Director John: Ford
has an eye for a fine stage picture, and
again and again produces a grouping
that is full of artistry. The painful con-
cluding scenes of Mary’s life are long-
drawn-out, but on the scaffold there is a
ray of brightness. Bothwell, who died in
a Danish prison, had promised the queen
that when next she heard his pipers he
would be in England to set her free.
And, of course, she does hear them —an
effective curtain. Previewed at R.K.O.
theatrette, Sydney.
“Fury”
Human emotions under the microscope
in a powerfully-presented film. It is
propaganda, directed against the U.S.A.
fancy for turning crime cases into poli-
tics, as in the Hauptman trial. Advo-
cates of lynching, too, are grilled, and
the aphorism about the hollowness of
revenge is hammered home.
The savage treatment of an innocent
man, arrested on a serious charge on the
flimsiest of evidence, will give Australian
audiences the comfortable feeling that “it
couldn’t happen here” ; apparently it can
in the Land of the Free. Mass hysteria,
worked up by a few hotheads and cul-
Katharine Hepburn as Queen Mary in
“Mary of Scotland.”
minating in the burning of the gaol in
which the victim of lynch law is locked
in his cell, has been wrought into a fear-
some scene.. Court happening are typi-
cally disorderly; the sole upholder of
decorum is the Judge, and even he gets
down from his bench to take the witness
stand.
Spencer Tracy admirably portrays the
wronged man, with Sylvia Sidney soundly
supporting as his fiancee, Walter Abel a
smoothly efficient district attorney, Bruce
Cabot a thoroughly unscrupulous mob-
leader and Edward Ellis a tight-lipped
sheriff, determined to uphold the law
against Judge Lynch. Previewed at
M.-G.-M. theatrette.
“Let’s Sing Again”
Introduces yet another “wonder child,”
Bobby Breen, who cuts across normal
vocal laws by producing a clear lyric
tenor voice at the age of eight (Caruso
was similarly gifted at the same age).
John Carradine as Rizzio in “Mary of
Scotland.”
Breen’s voice has had sound training ; he
attempts “La Donna e Mobile” and
“Santa Lucia,” with moderate success.
The child has an attractive personality
and an easy, natural screen manner.
There simply had to be a sugary story,
and all the old props are there. The
separated parents ; the disowned child ;
flight frorn the institution; “adoption”
by the kind circus man ; a little luke-
warm villainy to cash in on the boy’s
talents, duly foiled, and the happy end-
ing, with sentiment dripping over all.
The film’s best is Henry Armetta. The
inimitable retailer of spiggotty English
flavored with Americanisms, with his ex-
citably waving arms and queer lopsided
walk, gives a capital performance as pro-
tector of the synthetic orphan. George
Houston as the father is sound, and
sings a couple of songs in a fine, reso-
nant baritone. Vivienne Osborne is the
answer to an entrepreneur’s dream, and
Grant Withers enters into the spirit of
the production by not laying the turpi-
tude on too thick. Lucien Littlefield gaves
a delectable vignette as the mock-severe
head of an orphanage. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Two Against the World”
Good acting in this radio drama, but
the many holes in the plot have to be
stuffed with much putty of credulity.
Among other things, the audience is
asked to swallow the representation of a
broadcasting co. so unmindful of the law
of libel as to broadcast a serial story
(“Sin Doesn’t Pay”) founded on the facts
of a twenty-year-old murder committed
by a woman (acquitted at the time on a
self-defence plea), since happily married
and living.
Still, the tragedy that can result from
this sort of muckraking is vividly por-
trayed, with Helen MacKellar giving a
fine performance as the victim and Henry
O'Neill excellent as her husband.
Humphrey Bogart as the station’s
manager, who, under pressure from the
owner, cynically but unwillingly agrees
to the broadcast, is satisfying in a difficult
role, and Robert Middlemas makes a
convincingly sanctimonious hypocrite of
the station’s owner, exploiting the
skeletons in a community’s cupboard. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Whipsaw”
An extremely hard-boiled collection of
citizens figures in this garigster fantasia
at Sydney Mayfair. Myrna Loy is the
pretty lady of a jewel-thief who gets
away with four pearls valued at one
hundred thousand smackers. While he
goes into smoke she remains on deck.
The police build up a criminal record for
one of their brainiest sleuths (Spencer
Tracy), and stage some little plays that
induce pretty lady to fly with sleuth. But
the lady is wise to the fact that her asso-
ciate is a dick ; and he knows that she
knows. What neither of them knows is
that the missing jools are in the handle
of her hand mirror. Rival gangsters
pursue them. After many crosses and
trials —some of the former of the double
variety—romance is in full swing. The
Loy-Tracy combination is as entertain-
ing as was the Loy-Powell partnership in
“The Thin Man.”
“Three Live Ghosts”
Done yet again, this time by
M.-G.-M.’s English branch. Claude Alli-
ster is still “Spoofy”—the part must by
now be second nature —and the only
notable change is the casting of Richard
Arlen as Foster alias Jones. Plenty of
chuckles, but the Scotland Yard officials
have Centre-street written all over them.
Also at the Mayfair.
“Desert Gold”
This is Zane Grey’s story about the
educated Indian chief who knew where
there was a fabulously rich goldmine,
and was therefore persecuted by villain-
ous whites. Buster Crabbe is the poor
Indian, and Marsha Hunt is the girl in
the case. The plot isn’t as important as
the by-play, and the by-play sent this
commentator to sleep. It was gathered,
however, that in the end virtue was tri-
umphant and loving hearts were reunited.
At Sydney Civic.
“It’s a Great Life”
Uncle Sam’s variant on Australia’s
sand-shifting “relief work” is the C.C.C.
—Community Conservation Camp —
where young men are given board and
bed, 30 dahlars a month, and such jobs
as transplanting trees. Joe Morrison,
who is “Chic” Sale’s grandson, and Paul
Kelly go to one of these institutions. They
love the same girl, Rosalind Keith. Mr.
Morrison sings sweetly and frequently,
but Mr, Kelly rescues the goil from a
forest fire by dynamiting a dam, so he
gets her. Most exciting part is where
Claude Allister as “Spoofy” in “The
Three Live Ghosts,” at Sydney Mayfair.
the elderly Mr. Sale falls off a step-ladder
seven times while attempting to hang a
picture. The dullest effort this critic has
seen on a screen for at least 12 months.
Also at the Civic.
“The Border Patrolman”
General atmosphere is ethelemdellish.
George O’Brien, member of the Border
Patrol —the border being that between


Fifty Years of Progress
1886-1936
There is no better evidence of the confidence in which
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) is held by the
Public than the growth of the Trust and Agency Funds
committed to its care since its incorporation in September,
1886.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS:
1916 £12,604,679
1926 £26,969,507
1936 £49,843,141
THE COMPANY IS EMPOWERED UNDER
SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT TO ACT AS
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS, TRUSTEE,
ATTORNEY, AGENT, etc.
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (CHAIRMAN), WALTER T. BRUNTON, HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.,
LIEUT.-COL. The Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., E. R. KNOX,
K. de L. CUDMORE, R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE (MANAGING DIRECTOR).
CAPITAL:
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL ; £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL . . 200,000
UNCALLED CAPITAL .. .... 800,000
RESERVE FUND 120,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company (Limited)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Call or write for free
Explanatory Booklet.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Manager.
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage
Board, Sydney.
£1,000,000 LOAN.
INTEREST, 4J PER CENT. PRICE OF ISSUE, £99.
REPAYABLE 1951.
LOAN NOW OPEN
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board from
whatever source arising. Subscriptions to the Loan may be
paid in full with application or by the following:—
Option 1:10 per cent, with the application.
30 per cent, on 16th October, 1936.
30 per cent, on 16th November, 1936.
29 per cent, on 16th December, 1936.
Option 2: 10 per cent, with the application.
89 per cent, up to 16th December, 1936.
Prospectuses and Applications obtainable at Common-
wealth Bank and Board’s Office.
WHY YOU SHOULD INVEST!
THE LOAN PROVIDES A SOUND INVESTMENT
WITH REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
ASSURED. IT WILL BE LISTED ON THE STOCK
EXCHANGE AND THUS PROVIDE READY MEANS OF
REALISATION.
THE LOAN WILL PROVIDE REPRODUCTIVE WORK
FOR THOUSANDS OF UNEMPLOYED AT FULL-TIME
AWARD RATES.
100,000 HOUSES IN METROPOLITAN AREA AWAIT
PROVISION OF SEWERAGE SERVICE.
MAIN OUTFALL SEWERS REQUIRE AMPLIFICA-
TION.
SEWERAGE FACILITIES LESSEN TOLL OF DISEASE.
TYPHOID ALMOST NON-EXISTENT IN SEWERED
DISTRICTS.
TREATMENT WORKS AT OCEAN OUTFALLS
REQUIRED TO IMPROVE CONDITIONS OF SYDNEY’S
SURFING BEACHES.
SYDNEY.
T. HAYNES UPTON, President.
F. J. HENRY, Secretary.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Arizona and Mexico—arrests a way-
ward millionairess (Polly Ann Young) for
smoking in a prohibited area. She lies
like a professional, is believed and ac-
quitted. O’Brien resigns from the force,
and is immediately engaged by million-
airess’s grandpa as tamer of the maid.
She gets mixed up with a gang of jewel-
thieves and elopes with its leader, but
George is on her trail. Unarmed, he lays
out three desperate villains heavily
equipped with artillery, and lurv dawns
where formerly hate blazed. Previewed
at Fox theatrette, Sydney.
“High Tension”
The niche left vacant by the disappear-
ance of James Cagney has been filled
by Brian Dunlevy. He’s much bigger
than Cagney, and just as hard-boiled and
conceited. In “High Tension” he’s a deep-
sea diver, employed by a cable co. which
values him as highly as he values himself.
He finds his match in Glenda Farrell,
whose weakness is rages, and the pair,
abetted by Norman Foster in one of his
trusty-pal roles and Helen Wood (to pair
off with Foster at the fadeout), unfold a
brisk-moving adventurous yarn with
plenty of humor in dialogue and action.
Incidentally, the film marks the first
appearance this commentator has struck
of the latest addition to the American
idiom —“no soap,” which means no
money, no success, or “nothing doing,”
according to circumstances. Previewed
at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
Some First Nights
Gusts of uproar at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night hailed Charles Heslop and
Leo Franklyn boisterously exploiting the
rich material of “Yes, Madam?” To
carry the foolery Albert Locke produces
a nicely-dressed and mounted show, and
Nina Starace’s ballet is Al. Andrew
MacCunn’s baton made no false waves,
but the music has only a fugitive tuneful-
ness.
The play’s plot is a bit bewhiskered,
having to do with the will of a rich
eccentric, whose prospective heir and
heiress before they can collect have to
stay in domestic service for two months
without getting the sack. Otherwise some-
one else benefits, and, of course, this
party’s machinations produce absurd
situations.
Nellie Barnes brightens proceedings
with her good spirits and winsome way ;
Ethel Morrison as a forbidding spinster
gets laughs by looking glum, roaring up
the servants in a heavy baritone and sud-
denly, becoming girlishly skittish; Marie
La Varre has one of the racy parts she
enjoys. Charles Heslop as a beneficiary-
valet-c//m-chauffeur and Leo Franklyn as
his boss, a walrus-moustached, retired
Yorkshire “bootten” manufacturer, team
up perfectly. Phil Smith as a cocky little
knight adds to the fun, and Robert Coote
is good as an impecunious rake. Tom
and Laurie Devine do some neat danc-
ing, and Harold Meade, Charles Zoli
and John Dobbie are lively in character
‘roles.
•J* *l* *!♦ •b
A large and enthusiastic audience
rolled up for the first Pinza-Rethberg
concert at Melbourne Town Hall ; sub-
sequently attendance waned, though
without enthusiasm slackening. Pinza is
a dark young man with an expressive
Italian buffo face whose words roll out
to flood the hall, a flood he controls with
extraordinary ease, so that the tortuous
Mephistopheles aria, with its demoniacal
mirth, seems done as effortlessly as the
solemn, anthemlike songs of Monfeverde,
Torelli and Scarlatti. Madame Rethberg,
on the other hand, trills as gently and
lightly as a bird. As the programmes
have been so arranged that the dark pas-
sions of Pinza alternate with the sweet-
ness and light of his fellow-vocalist, the
effect is as of a vocal symphony rounded
off with a grand finale in the form of
a duet from a Thomas or Verdi opera.
Pinza and Rethberg double the length of
their programmes with their encores,
and the banquet of song threatens a sur-
ieit to the ear, which Richard Crooks’s
never did. Crooks had a pianist to help
him out, and there doesn’t seem to be
any valid reason why a solo item or two
shouldn’t be heard from the present
couple’s accompanist, Raymond Lam-
bert, the Melbourne pianist.
•J* •b 4* *J*
In Barrie’s “Mary Rose,” produced by
Brett Randall for three nights at Mel-
bourne Garrick, characters have not only
to create a fantasy but to sustain it, for
there’s no explanation to smooth away
difficulties at the end. Particularly com-
mendable were Jack Wiltshire as Simon
and Collins Hilton as Morland. In the
second scene, where the parents of Mary
Rose tell Simon about their daughter’s
inexplicable disappearance in childhood,
Simon and Morland, with Ruby May as
Mrs. Morland, produce a tense climax.
Again in the last act these three pick up
the threads smoothly; they have aged
not only physically, a matter of stance
and make-up, but mentally. Judy
Thomas looked charming as Mary Rose,
but she gave the part more of the ingenue
than of the remote mystic. Lewis Tegart
was satisfactory as Cameron, the bare-
footed boatman who became a parson,
and Hilda Whitburn produced the neces-
sary symptoms of morbid fear in shuf-
fling old housekeeper Mrs. Otery. Wil-
liam James had easier ground to tread
as the Rev. Amy. As Harry, Robert
Bennet looked well and exercised a good
carrying voice.
•b
When one’s flighty spouse is bowled
over by a mania for the simple life and
an infatuation for a young flunkey per-
petually gushing psychological incom-
prehensibilities, it’s possibly best to let
her have her head and burn her fingers
- —provided one does as Henry Crespard
in Sydneysider Helen Bousfield’s “Com-
panionate Divorce” and wishes a frosty
maiden aunt on the eloping doves.
Still, only for the timely intervention of a
worldly-wise sister Henry Crespard might
have wound up in Queer-street. The
piece has its moments, but the humor is
labored, and essays at being naughty are
a bit schoolgirlish. The Independents
put it on at Sydney Savoy.
“Sir Charles the First,” by a local man,
John Ormiston Reid, made its d£but on
the stage of Melbourne Little Theatfe.
There are plenty of pitfalls for inex-
perienced writers of three-acters, and that
Reid didn’t fall into more of them is to
his credit, but he slithered round the
edges now and again. Faults, however,
were compensated for by lively plot' de-
velopment and characters that were
characters.
Douglas Kelly displayed a delightful
sense of comedy in his juvenile lead of
Vernon Pendlebury, a painter of abstrac-
tions and nude ladies. Shirley McLeod
was the maid and model, and H. N.
Gregory did a fine character sketch as
the girl’s boozy father. Reginald Rob-
ertson played Pendlebury, the bacon
king who gets a title and becomes Sir
Charles. He’s an intolerant martinet, as
unimaginative as his bacon factory. Joyce
Walker was his daughter Antoinette, who
has an innocent love affair with a clerk.
Loveday Hills proved herself a versatile
young actress. Having graduated from
small parts she got away with the role of
a faithful wife who to get a divorce and
freedom invents a love affair with a
friend of the family.
*l* *!* *l*
Adelaide Repertory Theatre revived
“Major Barbara,” and two crowded
houses took Shaw’s long arguments
warmly; a pity the action fades
into a jungle of talk. Florence Brown
had the name-part, but the chief weight
of dialogue fell on Arthur Fay as the
armaments-manufacturer and David
Dawson (a real “find” for this theatre) as
the quietly humorous professor. Glen-
non produced, and there were neat char-
acter-studies by Peterson and Crump in
the Salv’army-shelter scene.
*][• *|«
For the W.E.A. of Adelaide, Colin
Ballantyne produced his own historical
drama about S.A., “Harvest,” written
round John Ridley, who invented the
reaping-machine but sturdily refused to
make any personal profit out of it, to
the great annoyance (as represented in
the play) of his wife. Richard Ashley
did good work in the lead. Also Esmond
George pluckily produced John Drink-
water’s “A Man’s House,” a 'brilliant
study of a household in old Jerusalem,
in process of being divided and broken
up by new and revolutionary ideas from
Nazareth. Wallace Johnstone, a finished
and easy player always, scored as the
much-tried head of the house, and was
best supported by Esther Coffey as a
blind woman.
Current Artbursts
Painter Will Rowell is showing 51 pic-
tures at Melbourne Athenaeum, chiefly
descriptive landscapes, with some portraits
and still-life. Rowell’s technique is sure ;
he uses no slapdash short cuts. In
sketches of bush and mountain there is
a preponderance of purples and blues;
other canvases are genial with sunshine,
and there is some very clever painting of
sunlight on water. Portraits include
several of fellow-artists. That of W. B.
Mclnnes is an excellent likeness, with
character. Louis McCubbin’s present-
ment looks as if he were a harder sub-
ject to tackle. “The Airman” stands out
well against the sky ; a fine outdoor por-
trait, producing an illusion of light and
air.


The Ttieliardson Chain Hotel
9%
m
m
Ml
ir/TL
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot an d Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
in", Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Contain
genuine
medicinal
qualities
HUDSON'S
EUMENTHOL' •«
JUJUBES
Recommended
by Doctors
tor almost
50 years
6d. & 1/6 tin
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Ropr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St.. Svdnry.
sf
WILCOX SMITH £ CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
t(S Page Buying anti
Selling last free.
Established 4!) years.
Bankers: The Union
Engagement.
THE engagement is announced of ELIZA-
BETH MARIAN, only child of Mr and Mrs.
p D Belcher, of Gordon, N.S.W.. to
WILLIAM AKINS CARTER of Kiama.
N.S.W.. only child of Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Carter, of Stavvell, Victoria.
A WONAN'S
LETTER
The lads wore all the fine feathers at
Governor Murray Anderson’s first levee.
The Government House affair was for
males only, but the absence of the oppo-
site sex didn’t prevent the gowned and the
uniformed, the helme’ted and the mortar-
boarded from positively preening them-
selves in the spring sunshine. The
Governor himself was all of a glitter with
gold braid, medals, sword and cocked
hat. Chancellor of the University Mungo
MacCallum was impressive not only in
the gold and black of his robes, but by
virtue of the mighty-looking university
mace that preceded him in the hands of
acting-Esquire Bedell J. Dale. Sergeant-
at-arms Harnett showed well-built legs
under his knee-breeches, and the full-
bottomed wigs of the judiciary and
glossy tailorings of acting-Premier Brux-
ner and Chief Secretary Chaffey went to
the party. There were soldiers of to-day
and soldiers of yesterday, the shoulders
and backbone of both equally erect, but,
oh! where are the waists of yesteryear?
Barrister Nerida J. Cohen was in the
scene, but not quite of it. She did not
enter the ballroom, where the levee was
held.
The banqueting room at the Australia
was chosen for the Victoria Leaguers’
introduction to Lady Anderson. The
Governor’s wife chose a black-and-white
ensemble. Black and white also was
Rosemary de Sausmarez. A feature of
the reception was the presentation of all
the members present. These included
Dame Eadith Walker, Miss Fairfax, the
Hugh Denison lady, the wife of Lieu-
tenant-Governor Street, Miss Macarthur
Onslow, Mrs. Walter Swinson and other
pillars of the league. At the beginning of
the party the middle of the big room
was filled with chairs on which the guests
sat listening to the speeches, but at tea-
time the tables were arranged on each
side of the room, with a great and yawn-
ing gap in between. The v.-r. tea-table
was decked with boronia and daffodils,
and Lady Anderson was given a spray
of exquisite orchids.
One of the funniest and best-dressed
shows Sydney has seen for a long time
is “Yes, Madam?” To greet it the Royal
was packed on Saturday night with the
city’s best-appointed. Marie Bremner
and Strella Wilson were among the ap-
plauders; Marie, pictorial as usual, in
white, the round collar of her frock
crusted with rhinestones. One of the
night's prettiest was Mrs. Malcolm Mc-
Intyre (Sadie Bedford that was). Her
black frock, worn under a green coat,
was silver patterned. Mrs. Colin Gal-
braith’s wrap was of Parma violet velvet.
Which is a reminder that one of the
most graceful ballets was dressed in float-
ing frocks of white, apple-green and
violet. Mrs. K. Johnson was a slim
figure in black lace, with a ground-length
velvet cape. Down in the stalls was
Mrs. Sep Levy ; up in the circle were the
Bertie Kellys. Mrs. Bertie’s wrap was
magnificence in black and gold—more
gold than black. Its wearer was smiling
because it was her wedding anniversary,
and daughter Mrs. J. McPhillamy had
come from Bathurst and son Carlton had
flown up from Melbourne to join the
family dinner party. Mrs. McPhillamy’s
frock was of black chiffon. Being an
artist, she had spent the afternoon at the
International Show lecture in the
National Gallery.
Some beautiful Japanese and Chinese
costumes came to the International Ball.
The ball filled the Trocadero with much
glitter and many tongues. The Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie came, bringing
with them a small court—the guests at
the dinner party they had given at
Admiralty House. Pearls, black lace and
a great bouquet of hyacinths made
gracious Lady Gowrie’s attire. The
Anderson lady, whose professor is one
of the pillars of the League of Nations
Union, looked peaceful as the lake of
Geneva on a still day. Her chiffon frock
was mist blue. There was quite a covey
of debs., white and glittering like Mont
Blanc. Alexander Gordon’s lady, who
afterwards led them to the presentation
carpet, had a busy quarter of an hour
beforehand running them through their
paces, rehearsing curtsies, and what all.
Her satin frock held the deep rose of
wine. Its skirt had a pleated panel, and
its shoulder scarves were pleated, too.
Noreen Dangar presided over the
Younger Set table, which was set out as
an Australian homestead. It showed a
typical outback cottage in stretching
wire-fenced paddocks. A competition for
the best-decorated table brought out some
good ideas —none more topical than
Ruby Rich’s effort. Over this flew the
flags of all nations, supported in the
middle by a slim glass figure representing
Peace holding up a bowl of flowers. At
each side the table was banked with
bowls of deep red flowers:, one bearing
the word “International,” the other
“Friendship.” The first prize went to a
Swedish scene, designed and painted by
Mrs. Bainton. It showed villagers in
national costume dancing around a blue-
and-gold maypole on a village green
bordered with nasturtiums and forget-
me-nots. A peaceful little English gar-
den, flower-hedged and lamplit, was an
attraction. Kathleen Kenna, the guest
of Admiralty House and a next week’s
bride, wore a great spray of liiy-of-the-
valley with her black moire frock.
Jeanne Suzor, daughter of France’s
Consul-General, was one of the debs.;
Mrs. E. Meyer was handsome in her
Alsace-Lorraine costume; Czechoslo-
vakia was represented by
The wife of Japan’s Consul-General
Murai brought the ceremonial costume
of Japan. Mrs. Norman Macleod was
picturesque in black tulle, its fichu fast-
ened with a deep red rose. Rosemary de
Sausmarez flashed by in lilac. The U.S.A.
Consular Pierrepont Moffats were there.
Lord Ranfurly was in the group that
came on from Admiralty House ; so were
Lieut.-Commander Tyrwhitt and the
Denzil Macarthur Onslows. Joan Wad-
dell was there, unusual as ever, in two
tones of lilac. Mrs. Norman Lowe, in
cloth of silver, and Mrs. Fowler Smith,
in wine taffetas, had four debs, at their
table. Lieutenant-Governor Philip Street
and his wife were importants. She was
the ball’s president, and dressed her part
in black satin and lace. Jeanie Ranken
and Mrs. Noelle Brennan, the one in
black lace, the other in lime-green, were
among those who helped run the success.
Mrs. Florence Taylor, of the Arts Club,
Mrs. Mark Foy and Josephine Marks
brought outsize parties.
Merle Taylor, a Melbourne girl and
former pupil of St. Catherine’s Girls’
School, will captain the All-Australia
women’s hockey team that is to tour the
U.S.A. The team leaves Sydney on Sep-
tember 10 in the Niagara, a few days
after the final match of the hockey car-
nival now raging at the Sports Ground.
To-morrow (Thursday) night, for the first
time in Sydney, night hockey will be
played. For this the sports grounds will
be floodlit, and the evening will be
opened with a spectacular march past.
During the week's matches Merle cap-
tains her ow'n Victorians. This outdoors
girl is a fine horsewoman and a splendid
tennis-player.
The city is positively bristling with
hockey-sticks. Besides the hundred
players who will show their mettle in the
carnival matches, several touring teams
have arrived to pick up points and to
join in the fun. Everyone, including
Merle Taylor, who reached Sydney only
on Saturday morning, was welcomed at
the Australia. Motor drives, launch
picnics and theatre parties will fill in any
spare hours. The association’s president,
Dr. Marie Hamilton, and secretary, Mrs.
F. J. Davy, who will also manage the
American tour, can be proud of the
week’s programme of sport and enter-
tainment.
Kathleen Kenna, who arrived in the
Orford, will be one of next week’s brides,
On arrival in Sydney she went to stay at
Admiralty House as guest of the Gov-
ernor-General and Lady Gowrie until
this week, when the vice-regals were due
to leave for Canberra. Miss Kenna is the
elder daughter of the late Brigadier-
General Paul Kenna, V.C., D. 5.0., who
was a friend of Lord Gowrie. Her
bridegroom-to-be is Lieut.-Commander
Tyrwhitt, of H.M.A.S. Sydney. Captain
Fitzgerald, of H.M.A.S. Sydney, is to give
the bride away. Dorothy Welding photo.
Anybody who arrived late for the
Continental auction and fashion parade
in Elizabeth Bay House had to lurk
about the doorway till the last show
frock and hat had circled the rooms.
Babe Cobcroft’s voice, decanted through
loudspeakers, described the frocks that
were alternately evening glamor, after-
noon sophistication, and sports-spectator
smartness. Women sat enthralled till
Philip Lewis, who had kept up a running
fire of comments on fashions frivolous
and gay, announced tea. Well, that was
like one apple tossed to a garden full of
Eves. Before you could say hot crumpets
the buffet was surrounded five deep.
Optimists peered through the awninged
entrance to the verandah, which was still
another tearoom. That also was a full
house. Finally Faith and Pekoe were
united, and every woman had her tea.
Strella Wilson and Bill O’Neal ran the
auction. The president of the committee
was John McKelvey’s lady. Smart
lookers-on were Frances Angus, Mrs.
Pat Levy, Mrs. Alexis Albert and Joyce
Boynton. The Industrial Blind Institu-
tion benefits.
The Sterling Levis couple entertained
a great company at a Sunday-afternoon
party that brought a procession of cars
to Parsley Bay between five and seven.
Musicians and followers of the drama
were in the majority. A highlight of the
afternoon was a Mozart concerto on the
piano and dulcitone played by the hostess
and daughter Joan. Another was the
singing by Alice Prowse of the poem
written by Mrs. Levis for her new play,
“The Spirit Host.” This has been set
to music by Mr. J. Brash. Mrs. Norman
Macleod sang Brahms, and Clement
Hosking told legends of the Hebrides,
and then backed them up with song.
The “Uncivilised” Ball for the Mater
Misericordise Hospital’s new wing filled
the Blaxland Galleries with enthusiasts.
It also brought out some novel table
decorations in keeping with its name.
Orphaned-looking palm-trees jutted up
here and there. In their shade native
huts were safe in the keeping of stal-
wart black warriors, holding spears very
erect. Or, again, the village chef seemed
busy preparing dinner. Salted and pep-
pered to taste, a victim was simmering
in the communal pot. Particularly attrac-
tive was the lady croc, having a walk-
about with a pink bow on her tail-
Spears and palm fronds about the pillars
gave added atmosphere. A contrast was
supplied by the table bordered by a deep
window-box richly blooming with spring
flowers, and by another brave with wara-
tahs and bushland flowers.
Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre’s rose-pink crepes
were embroidered with silver cloque
spots and had touches of lilac. Ihe
Eccles Snowden lady, who came late,
wore black velvet. Her daughter Jean
wore turquoise organdie effectively.. Ear-
rings of real hyacinths were her orna-
ment. Mrs. Norman Macleod, the treas-
urer, brightened black-and-white frock-
ing with a cluster of red camellias at
the neckline. The Archdale Parkhill lady
was the guest, her frocking a composition
in gold and mist-blue. North Sydney s
Mayor, David Hunter, brought his
Mayoress. They were in a party of forty
or so, in which were Mrs. E. D. Cohen
and Mrs. P. Middlemiss.
Beverley Slayney, who danced in the
“Gipsy Princess,” ruffled in cosmos-pink
net, and late in the evening did a solo
dance. Pearls and pale blue were Mrs.
Chauvel’s contribution. Queenslander
Maureen Leeper, slim in pale-blue and
pink organza, talked to screen-actor Joe
Valli and his pretty wife. Maoriland
journalist Mabel Baker was with Miss
Hollander. Pat and Alice Nall W'ere
among the dancers. A screen-type com-
petition was a long-drawn-out but no
doubt exquisite agony to the aspirants.
Helen Hicks has become a world
champion at golf without developing
pneumatic hips. That brought a sigh of
relief from the woman who is a golf
addict. The bright-faced American girl
talked the game and demonstrated shots
at Anthony Horderns’ country club last
week. Gene Sarazen was there, too, and
the place was packed. A bunch of the
firm’s directors sat in a front seat watch-
ing Gene’s explosive shots to get the
ball out of a bunker, and from directors
to the uttermost rim ears fanned the air
as they wiggled with tenseness while G.S.
explained how to avoid slicing. Helen
changed her pullover for every recital.
This Letter gives the palm for becom-
ingness to the deep blue. This was worn
with a grey skirt. The Gene Sarazens
and Helen were guests of honor at the
Professional Golfers’ Association ball.
On that occasion Helen wore filmy white
lace, and a diamond bow glittered in her
dark hair. Mrs. Sarazen’s black velvet
frock had a silver tunic.
But what about the dragons? Who
was being kind to them at the R.S.P.C.A.
Ball? Knights, all armed, went riding
through forest ways, and probably every
man of them was a follower of St.
George. However, black cats posed care-
free on many a table, every dog had his
bone, and one at least had a flower
kennel. The decorations were clever and
amusing, and Paddington Town Hall was
crowded with animal lovers who played
bridge or danced in the interests of their
dumb friends. One of the smart dances
of the week, it was preceded by many
dinner parties. The Victor Whites were
among the evening’s hosts, and dined a
bright party at Lulworth, their Roslyn
Gardens home.
Mrs. White’s frock was flower-pat-
terned in black, green and white, and
featured shoulder scarves in tones of
mauve and green. The guests included
the Bertie Kellys. Mrs. Kelly’s frock
of pale-pink satin glittered with dia-
mente. The Julius lady’s frocking
was black and white. Slim scarves
swayed from the shoulders of Peggy
Halloran’s hyacinth-pink satins; an
orange satin sash followed in the wake
of Suzanne Stogdale’s brown velvets. She
had given a dinner at the Rose Bay Golf
Club, and had brought on a cheery group.
Mrs. John Bavin and Mrs. Colin Gal-
braith were among the dancers. Mrs
Crawford Robertson, wore silver brocades
and summer ermine.


Meet
15he
Phantom
m
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR.
Now on Sale
w\r
m
C 005&
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Enjoy your trip
Mothersills
ble
it
akes’Deck Activities" Enjoyable
And Tea a Welcome Event
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
Melbourne
Chatter
Elisabeth Rethberg and Ezio Pinza at
their first receptions had full-pressure
central-heating at the A.B.C.’s party at
Menzies and the same evening Antarctic
cold at the Music Teachers’ Association’s
at-home in the lower Town Hall. The
official welcomers, Madame Ethel Ash-
ton (the only woman on the M.T.A.
council) and Harold Elvins, were obvi-
ously worried over the frostiness. Signor
Pinza fingered his lapels lingeringly, sug-
gesting that with little encouragement
he’d have turned up his coat collar;
Madame looked cosier, submerged to the
ears in her ermine wrap. They slipped
off quietly, without waiting for a nobbier
of coffee, as soon as the Victorian String
Quartet had concluded its programme.
The earlier A.B.C. party enjoyed what
felt like an Indian summer atmosphere
after the blizzard outside, in which
dozens of hats, parted from masculine
and feminine heads, careered madly
across the streets, blew under the wheels
of cars or tripped up the feet of pedes-
trians. On their arrival women guests
had but a single thought—the cloakroom,
for a complete renovation of coiffure.
At the party were many highlights of
the A.8.C., musicians and lovers of clas-
sical music, and an element of jazz in
such exponents as Howard Jacobs. Mrs.
Cecil Norman, in a little fur cape, had
woolly pompoms in place of buttons
down the front of her tailored dress. Miss
Brownlee (sister of John) was among
the guests, and so was Rita Miller, who
was particularly interested to talk with
Madame Rethberg ; she heard the diva
in opera in Paris. Miss Miller had great
difficulty in getting her very smart hat
to the party ; a tall black velvet envelope
model, it exerted what felt to its harassed
owner as much wind resistance as the
sails of a racing yacht.
For hh> concert appearances Ezio
Pinza wears a wider-winged butterfly
collar than we are used to seeing.
Madame Rethberg for her second con-
cert was in black stiffened net, the skirt
slim as to hips and very full from a
diagonal line half-way down the skirt,
while the charm of the corsage depended
on a deep calyx cape of the same sheer
material. Her notebook, which she em-
ploys with English songs, was also black.
The same notebook at Saturday’s concert
melted into one of the large black flowers
which patterned Madame’s pink gown.
This lovely frock went over a layer of
deeper pink chiffon, and the bodice was
swathed with a fichu draped over the
shoulders and tied at the base of the
decolletage. Coiffure was an arrangement
of crimps and curls. For the previous
concert Madame’s spun-gold hair was
brushed back from her brow without a
ripple, and a plait was twisted far back
round the crown of her head. This style
suits her type to perfection.
In spite of its mud, Bulla was a gay
place on a freezing night last week when
the Oaklands Hunt Club held its annual
dance in the little township’s hall.
Various cars were bogged en route; the
Denis Brannigans arrived plus the extra
pulling power of a truck, collected a flat
tyre and to get home accepted a tow-
rope from Harry Minogue. The Harry
Johnstons were also delayed by the cling-
ing morass. Whatever formal receiving
there was came from Judge and Mrs.
Magennis, who were, as always, in fine
hospitable fettle. Present also was courtly
Alister Clark, who had given cartloads
of daffodils to decorate the hall. Eighty
of his prize daffodils were being exhibited
the same day at the Royal Horticultural
Society’s show in Sydney.
Deputy-Master Alf Watkins was in
lusty voice for conducting choruses of
“John Peel” and “Drink, Puppy, Drink.”
Mrs. Watkins wore white and silver, and
a striking brunette also in white was Ann
McAuley. Thelma Bucknill’s azure-blue
satin gown was patterned with flowers.
Supper was in a marquee tied to the
foundations of the hall. Canvas flapped
and wind howled, but the meet, its femi-
nine members wrapped well in furs, went
right through the menu with a good
open-air appetite.
R. G. Menzies, opening Will Rowell’s
exhibition of paintings, put forth some
propaganda by reminding everybody that
artists must live, and that favorable com-
ments from spectators won’t pay the
butcher and baker. Mr. Menzies
eulogised the galleries of Europe, con-
fessed himself a layman in the matter of
art, and then astonished the assemblage
with the sweeping statement that any-
body of ordinary education could walk
through the Louvre and without consult-
ing catalogues or identification discs pick
out by instinct the most famous and valu-
able of the Old Masters.
Among portraits on the wall which
materialised during the first afternoon of
the show were A. E. Newberry, sculptor
Leslie Bowles and air-pilot Eric Chase-
ling. Mrs. Bill Mclnnes deputised for
her husband. Chilled fingers, wet shoes
and a wind-nipped nose were part of
the price Mr. Rowell paid to paint in
the rugged Cradle Mountain country
(Tasmania). One picture, “Snow Capped,”
was painted with tempest roaring up the
gully, guide hanging on to the easel with
both hands and artist, instead of put-
ting brush to canvas, beholding canvas
billow up to meet his brush.
Helen Benjamin, whose profile is
caught by Dickinson-Monteath’s camera,
becomes the bride of Dr. Leslie Kirsner.
Helen is the only daughter of Mrs. Louis
Benjamin. Her fiance, who has a house
situated in its own garden out at Haw-
thorn, comes of a medically-addicted
family. He has one brother a doctor and
another a chemist, and his mother did
two years’ medicine before relinquishing
a career for marriage.
It looks as if the Town Hall will be
packed with the Caledonian spirit for the
night of September 10; no Scottish ball
of such dimensions has hitherto been held
in Melbourne. People who have in their
make-up a sprig of heather which up till
now has lain dormant are feeling the
prickle of its leaves. They are examining
family albums and making inquiries
about their clan tartan.
Captain and Mrs. I. M. Moffat Pender
and Mrs. G. B. Walker are particularly
interested in the revival of Scottish reels,
with the result that 100 men and women
are practising these energetic dances for
a performance at the ball. Some rehear-
sals are held in Christ Church Hall,
others at the Victorian Scottish’s regi-
mental headquarters, and quite a number
take place in private homes. For the ball
the feminine Scottish-reelers will wear
pastel-tinted evening gowns and swathed
over their shoulders tartan sashes of the
clan (or one of the clans) to which they
claim kinship. Betty Walker, tall, fair and
very charming to look at, has designed the
advertising posters. Miss Walker is the
eldest daughter of Major and Mrs. G. B.
Walker, and is studying art at Melbourne
Technical College.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Betty,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Wood,
who has recently announced her engage-
ment to Arthur, second son of Mr. and
Mrs. H. G. Hanson, of Armadale. Miss
Wood was educated at Somerville House,
Brisbane, and since coming with her
parents to live in Melbourne has returned
to Queensland for several holidays.
Knees knocked and teeth chattered
through “Mary Rose” on Saturday night,
for the Garrick carries no central heat-
ing. Radiators half-way up the walls
are pleasant to look at, but seem to pro-
vide little more warmth than cigarette-
lighters. The committee working for the
Brotherhood of St. Laurence effort was
there in full force. Behind the chocolate
counter Mrs. Harold Nathan and Mrs.
A. B. Paterson presided jn fur coats.
Mrs. Paterson placed a spray of gilded
grapes in her hair to match her frock.
Mrs. Nathan’s gown was of ciel-blue
crepe scattered with diamente. Her son
Maurice, who is most enthusiastic about
the Brotherhood’s work, was everywhere
at once.
The vice-regal lady was welcomed by
Mrs. Essington Lewis, and was presented
with a bouquet by Betty Ince, whose
mother, Mrs. W. Ince, was swathed
snugly into a cloak of black velvet.
Among the programme- and sweets-sell-
ing contingent, mostly of debutante age,
were Mary Stephens, in pastel-pink and
an ermine cape; Helen Hockey; Joan
Leitch, all in ciel blue with puff-ball
sleeves to her ankle-length coat; and Mar-
jorie Matear, in a long slim-waisted coat
of white crepe Vanessa. Also sharing
committee responsibilities were Mrs.
Lytton Stephens, with orchids attached
to her fur cape, and Mrs. E. M. Corn-
foot, with a fur wrap over a velvet gown.
Elvie Prahl had violets in her hair to
match the ribbons tied to her vendor’s
tray. Coral Spiers wore black with dew-
drop beads strewn here and there. Prof.
Giblin, in his favorite ox-blood red tie
and unorthodox coat without a collar,
dissociated himself from facts to enjoy
an evening of fantasy.
News from London that his Australian
novel has won a £5OOO prize plus several
thousands’ worth of extras for film rights,
etc., is being taken calmly by Tarlton
Rayment. Possibly this naturalist would
get more thrill out of discovering some
new fact about the private life of bee,
wasp or ant. The job he made of A
Cluster of Bees, published by The Bul-
letin, has led critics in the U.S.A. and
Germany to compare him with Fabre.
Rayment, who for 25 years has studied
his favorite insects in their natural ’en-
vironment in several countries, possesses
all the patience of the scientist. His ex-
cellent eyes don’t require glasses, though
they sometimes have to look down a
microscope for 14 hours a day. Short
and rotund, Rayment looks neither physi-
cally tough nor a good bushman, but he’s
both. On a hot day last summer, unpro-
tected by any shade, he watched for
seven hours at a stretch the entrance to
a burrowing bees’ nest at Emerald. The
shortest day of this year he spent in the
snow examining the same nest. His win-
ning novel, Valley of the Sky, which will
be published simultaneously in 12 lan-
guages, has as its central figure that braw
Scot Angus McMillan, one of the pioneer
explorers of Gippsland.
Tennis-players anywhere near cham-
pionship mark usually do well at squash
racquets, one of the fastest and most
strenuous of games, and one which is
steadily becoming popular. Thus inter-
state tennis-player Dot Stevenson, though
a relatively new recruit to squash, won
the women’s championship of Victoria
fairly easily from Mrs. Ross Grey-Smith,
who has held the title for several years.
The finals were on Royal Melbourne
courts, where the Australian squash
championships will be fought from Sep-
tember 7 to 12.
Things are not going smoothly with
plans for the King’s memorial statue, for
which some favor a site near the Shrine,
others a place in the King’s Domain. The
latest meeting of the executive com-
mittee was “adjourned” ; only one mem-
ber, General Chauvel, put in an appear-
ance. The fact is that many Victorians
don’t want a statue, feeling that, after the
novelty wears off, few sculptured memo-
rials are appreciated, and that there are
other ways in which King George could
be honored with just as much reverence.
Incidentally, last week the metal rein
was removed from Wallace Anderson’s
“The Man with the Donkey.” No recog-
nition for a work of art nor admiration
for Private Simpson’s exploits in that
mutilator.
Latest news from New Guinea is that
there’s to be a brewery at the Wau. Beer
in this quickly-expanding mountain and
jungle village is priced from ss. to ss. 6d.
per bottle ; aerial transport makes every-
thing very expensive. Water tests arc
satisfactory for the malt-and-hops pro-
ject, and sturdy pioneers are hoping in
the near future to assuage their thirsts
without making such large holes in their
pockets. What a party the day the
brewery opens!
News comes from England that a
bright career is forecast for Bunty Leech.
Bunty, aged 17, went with her mother
to London last May. For several years
in Melbourne she studied dancing with
Eunice Weston, and in London enrolled
for lessons from Espinosa and Ruth
French. Both these teachers are enthusi-
astic about the budding ballerina, and
solo engagements have been promised her
for the London Christmas panto, season.
Bunty is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. William Leech, of South Yarra.


II
ill
isii
Conklin
ENDURA
Vn*T UmtmdiKcmlU U Guuamutl
Pens—Pencils-Sets
Guaranteed for
All Time,
Unending constant satis-
faction in ownership is
assured all who buy a
CONKLIN ENDURA
PEN or PENCIL by a
guarantee of free repair
service whenever repairs
are required.
CONKLIN ENDURAS
are made of unbreak-
able materials, and in
strikingly beautiful
modern color combina-
tions,
See them. Try them.
Gents.’ Pens,
30/- and 407-
Ladies’ Size, 307-
Pencils to match,
25/-
Compiete Sets in
Presentation Case,
55/- and 65/-
From all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores.
Personal and Missing Friends.
FELICE (OR PHYLLIS) MABEL JUST, last
heard of at Maroubra about June, 1932 (now
believed to be married), or anyone knowing
her whereabouts, is requested to communicate
immediately with her brother, Leslie Just, c jo
Macnish, Macrossan and Dowling, Solicitors,
Brisbane. Father is dead and his estate is
being administered. :
Legal Notice.
IN THE ESTATE OF JAMES BRYANT
GILLIES formerly of Port Melbourne and
Western Australia but lately of Hurlstone Park
near Sydney New South Wales Retired Rail-
way Employee now deceased intestate.
The Administratrix is now in a position to
make a distribution of the assets in the above-
mentioned estate and is making inquiries to
ascertain who are the next-of-kin of the said
deceased. It is believed that the maiden name
of the Mother of the deceased was CAROLINE
KNOWLES that he had one brother and one
sister that said sister’s name was LOUISE
or LOUISA that she married a Dentist named
BELL who once practised at Port Melbourne
Victoria and that there were at least three
sons of the said marriage.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that any
person claiming to be one of the next-of-kin
of the said deceased or to be the personal
representative of any next-of-kin of the said
deceased or any persons knowing anything of
the identity or whereabouts of any of such
next-of-kin or personal representative should
communicate immediately with the Administra-
trix MRS. I. C. GILLTES, c/o Messrs. Baldick
Asprey and Co. Solicitors 14 Martin Place
Sydney New South. Wales.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
.-.••• , No. 1136 of 1936.
BETWEEN HENRY ERNEST HALL Peti-
tioner
And ISOBEL ELEANOR CHALMERS
HALL (FORMERLY BROWN) Respon-
dent.
TO ISOBEL ELEANOR CHALMERS HALL
late of Grafton in the State of New South
TAKE NOTICE that the said Henry Ernest
Hall has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
arc required to enter an appearance to the
said suit in the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirteenth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of August, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SPORA & PRICE, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 155 King Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1089 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELSIE LOUISA KELLY Peti-
tioner
And HAROLD KELLY Respondent.
TO HAROLD KELLY late of Rita Island
Ayr Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE
LOUISA KELLY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
third day of November One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of-the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned. free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of August,
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES W. YOUNG, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Next of Kin.
Would the children of the late MAURICE
BROSNAN (native of Knockanimirish, Kil-
larney, County Kerry, Irish Free State), who
died in Australia upwards of twenty years ago,
communicate with Mr. Cornelius Healy, Soli-
citor, Killarney, County Kerry, Irish Free
State, from whom they will receive particulars
of information to their advantage?
TO ELIZA HENRY (otherwise Prendergast),
who was a sister of one William James Pren-
dergast, or her Legal Personal Representatives.
TO MARY ANNE ROCHE (otherwise
Prendergast), who was a sister of the said
William James Prendergast, or her Legal
Personal Representatives.
PURSUANT TO AN ORDER of the High
Court of Justice in Irish Free State, made in
the matter of the Estate of Jane Murphy,
Deceased, Prendergast v. Murphy, all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the said Jane
Murphy, deceased, and particularly the above-
named Eliza Henry and Mary Anne Roche and
the Legal Personal Representatives of them or
either of them, are on or before the 25th day
of November, 1936, to come in and prove
their claims at the Central Office, High Court
of Justice, Four Courts, Dublin, or in default
they will be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order.
Wednesday, the 2nd day of December, 1936,
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon, at the Ex-
aminer’s Office, is appointed for the hearing
and adjudication upon the said claims.
Dated the 7th day of August, 1936.
JOHN HEALY,
Examiner.
PHILIP WILLIAM BASS & CO., Solicitors
for the Plaintiff, 19 Upper Merrion Street,
Dublin, Irish Free State.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts-
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Pharmacy Ball, with novelties,
ballets and exhibition dances for good
measure, crowded the Embassy. Mr. and
Mrs. Hugh Howling (he presides over the
council) were at the portals, she in silver-
thread black cloque sprayed with cream
and gold roses. Mrs. Syme Johnson
ensconced her silver-coated black satins
in a guest-of-honor pew next Mrs.
Campbell Wilson’s black Chantilly lace,
Mrs. D.. G. White’s ice-blue matelasse
with its touches of red was alongside
Mrs. Brendon Garner’s floral crepes, and
Mrs. F. J. Wood danced in black-and-
white figured georgette.
Frank Boan and Betty Blackman
took their special license along to St.
Mary’s, West Perth. The bride’s tailored
white-spot navy-blue suit was worn with
a white organdie blouse, a neat little
navy hat and a bouquet of pink camellias.
After the knot-tying there was a luncheon
at the Hotel Esplanade, where Mrs.
Blackman received.
Hunt Club members gathered at the
Stirling Institute for an informal dance.
Secretary Molly Manning wore sleek
sherry velvets, Mrs. E. L. Barrett was there
in misty blister crepe, and Mrs. D. A.
Freecorn fluttered patterned georgette.
Mrs. D. J. Chipper beaded her black
georgette with silver, Edna Smily slipped
a blue mandarin jacket over floral taffetas,
and Sheila Hayes draped her black
georgettes with metal lace. A presenta-
tion was made to W. D. Atwell, the chief
huntsman, in recognition of long service.
Two families from the hills were
united when Betty Lee Monger was mar-
ried to Kelvin Pepper, of Mundaring, at
St. Cuthbert’s, Darlington. The bridal
ivory satins, cut on classic lines, with
scallops at the hem, swooped off into a
long semicircular train. Ghita Pepper
and Nessie Monger attended.
Iceland poppies and golden nastur-
tiums made gay the Guild Hall, National
House, when the Women’s Service Guild
put on its at-home. Mrs. W. H. Evans,
the State president, in navy-blue silk
crepes and wearing a matching Breton
hat, was assisted in welcoming by vice-
president Mrs. M. C. Terry and Perth
president Mrs. T. Lawrence. A musical
programme was given by Mrs. J. Logan,
Winifred Gamble, Mrs. Gilbert Barter
and Gladys McKee.
Members of the Tree Planters’ Assn,
selected the R.A.S. showgrounds as the
site for their first Arbor Day planting.
Lieut.-Governor Mitchell embedded the
roots of the first sapling, which was fol-
lowed by 45 others, the nucleus of a
grove of Norfolk Island pines, native
peppermints and N.S.W. box-trees. The
horde of guests washed down the dust
with tea.
Some 800 dancers trekked along to
the Embassy for the Catholic Ball, run
by a committee of thirteen. Mrs. J. P.
Maxwell, in luminous black satin, and
Mrs. T. Ahern, with violet and autumn-
toned flowers on her black silk crepes,
received Administrator Kelly, who repre-
sented the Archbishop. Diamente orna-
ments twinkled on Mrs. E. Needham’s
black satins, Ray Donovan wound ivory
lace over pink taffeta, Dorothy Grant’s
deep-blue satin was ribbed with silver,
and Mrs. J. J. Prendegast’s taffetas
changed from red to green.
After four days of hard work the
C.W.A. wound up its conference with
a reception to the wife of Lieut.-Com-
mander P. Agnew, M.P., Parliamentary
private secretary to the President of the
British Board of Trade. Mrs. Agnew,
who is a daughter of Harry Boan, of
Perth, spoke on the work being done by
country women’s organisations in Eng-
land, with which she is actively con-
nected.
The star bride-elect party held in
honor of Betty Hobbs was the one given
by her parents, General Talbot Hobbs
and his lady, at their home in Cottesloe.
Betty is following the family tradition
of sticking to the army. Both her
brothers are military men, her elder sister
is married to a major and she also will
wed a soldier. He is in India.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Kuitpo Gala in the Exhibition
Building was an excellent centenary
effort. Decorations by Mrs. Frank
Harcus showed the march of progress.
His Ex. made a speech and Lavington
Bonython moved a vote of thanks, after
which the conveners were presented to
the Governor by Mrs. S. Forsyth, whose
husband, Rev. S. Forsyth, is guiding star
of the Kuitpo colony. At an evening
session there was a pageant of “100
Years of Dress,” arranged by Mrs. Alec
Bagot and Dudley Matthews, in which
40 girls took part. Many of the frocks
had belonged to pioneer women. Next
night the centenary presentation “Pioneer
Ships” wound up the effort. Penny votes
for the twelve ships brought in over
£lOOO.
The programme was arranged by Mrs.
F. W. Porter and Nora Stewart. Twenty
of Adelaide’s pretty girls and 22 men
(Nightlarks) sang an opening chorus, and
a minuet by Dorothy Slane’s pupils and
some vaudeville numbers concluded the
first part. In the interval young men and
girls armed with butterfly-nets on long
bamboo sticks put in such good work
collecting that they brought in a further
£3OO. The second part of the bill
showed each of the “Ship” representatives,
first in single tableau like a picture in a
frame and then with the families who
came in each vessel to Australia. The
Buffalo group was made up of four
great-great and two great-great-great-
grandchildren of James Hurtle Fisher,
representing the six children who arrived
with that pioneer. Miss Stewart' was
assisted in grouping the pictures by artist
F. Millwood Grey. The announcement
that the Lady Emma, represented by
Daphne Bowman, had topped the poll
was received with great applause—a very
popular win. Lady Dugan then mounted
the stage and crowned Miss Bowman
with a wreath of pink roses.
The Bachelors’ Ball in Adelaide Town
Hall, at which 40 unmarried hosts enter-
tained, was lavishly organised. Dancing
did not start till 10.15 and very few got
home before three. For the centenary
the hall has been renovated, and the
result is a shock. The beautiful old
organ has been whitewashed all over,
and looks like something transplanted
from a cemetery. For the ball branches
of fir and masses of prunus-blossom
were the mainstays of the decorative
scheme. Six of the bachelors received
the 800 guests. The Bonython lady was
gowned in black matelasse, the Bruce
lady favored black with a draped corsage
of white satin, Mrs. Albyn Rankine chose
dusky-pink self-spotted taffeta, and Mrs.
H. C. Cave sported a black net patterned
in silver. Her daughter Mary danced in
daffodil chiffon on flowing lines. A
striking-looking girl was Mary de Gruchy,
of Jersey, Channel Islands, in Adelaide on
a visit to her aunt, Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward. Miss de Gruchy wore silver tissue
fitting to the figure, with a shoulder-spray
of red camellias. Mrs. Sidney Downer
was gowned in flame chiffon. Mrs.
Arthur Rymill’s black lace was worn
with an ermine coat. A bevy of this
season’s debs, wore their white tulle or
net frocks.
The Lady Mayoress’s room at the
Town Hall was decked with pink sweet-
peas and Lorraine Lee roses for the civic
reception to Dr. J. E. Rattenbury and his
daughter. Mrs. Dunstan was in a black
tailored romaine with a trimming of black
cire ribbon. Miss Rattenbury chose a
cape ensemble in duck-egg green, worn
with a wrap of skunk furs and a close-
fitting brown hat trimmed with rosettes
of fawn ribbon.
Mrs. Milo Sprod and Mrs. Moore
gave a dance at the Wentworth for
daughters Madeleine Sprod and Joan
Moore, Mrs. Sprod in black chiffon
velvet and Mrs. Moore in pale-pink
romaine cut on diagonal lines. Made-
leine was frocked in mist-blue silk lace,
flaring from the knees, and Joan’s pale-
pink crepe fitted to the figure.
The new American Consul, C. A.
Hutchinson, and his wife were welcomed
at the Lyceum Club by the E.S.U. The
room was bright with bowls of mixed
flowers. The president, Mr. E. W. Ben-
ham, and his wife received the guests,
introducing them in turn to Mr. and Mrs.
Hutchinson.
The Inter-Varsity Ball, in the Refec-
tory, drew a big attendance. Sport was
well represented. The guests were re-
ceived by Dr. O. L. Betts (president of
the Uni. lacrosse club), Dr. F. N. Le
Messurier (president of the football club)
and Mesdames Betts and Le Messurier.
Mrs. Betts wore may wine chiffon velvet,
fitting to the figure, with slight train, and
flowers in the same tone on the corsage.
Mrs. Le Messurier looked well in a slim
black frock of marocain, the V-neck and
cape-sleeves of black lace, and white
shoulder spray.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark attended
the A.I.F. Ball in Launceston’s Albert
Hall, which was decorated with masses of
greenery and flags. The stairway was
flanked by green lawns; on which beds
of primulas looked as if they were grow-
ing there. Dressing was very smart.
Lady Clark was in crepe of her favorite
Parma violet shade. The president of
the R.S.S.I.L.A. and Mrs. McKenzie re-
ceived the guest. Mrs, E. E. von-Bibra
(Mayoress) was in black satin with a
handsome coat. Red, white and blue
was the color scheme for the supper-
tables.
The Rep. Soc.’s Melodrama Ball at the
Continental provided good entertain-
ment. Programme included a fancy-dress
parade, a locally-written melodrama of
the goriest type, dancing and a fine
supper. Some of the costumes were
lovely, some extraordinarily quaint and
one or two uproariously comic. Mrs.
Roy Richard and Mary Balfe were joint
secs.
Mary Fox, principal of the Launceston
Methodist Ladies’ College, was fare-
welled at a big gathering of old girls
and present pupils before leaving for
U.S.A. with the Aust. hockey team. The
Kate Perrin Hall was decorated with
spring flowers for the occasion.
Pat Butler, shortly to be married to Bill
Hood, is going through a round of prc-
wedding parties and accumulating stocks
of hardware and haberdashery. The
Bethune girls, Mrs. Guy Webster and
Mollie Swan were among recent
hostesses.
Five of Hobart’s young modernist
painters-—Eileen Crow, Amy Kingston,
Phyllis Pitman, Nea Whittle and Robert
Montgomery-held a show at 0.8.M.s
Gallery. Dr. Pearson opened it, and a
fair crowd gazed with more or less rever-
ence at the startling pictures.
Keir Murdoch, only daughter of the
Tom Murdochs, St. Andrew’s, Mont-
pelier-road, and Anthony Brunskill
Dunn, N:S.W., announce their engage-
ment.
Mrs. Petrie Hay, known to Hobart in
her girlhood as Dolly Counsel, is com-
ing from Scotland on a visit to her
people.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A JOINT.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
17278/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
HAIR GRIPPING FASTENERS AND
METHOD AND MACHINE FOR
PRODUCING THEM.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
16257/28 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for Ihe granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
.and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to tire manager, who will
quote you price tor tne original.
IN
FIT * ''-r-
-
shadow? If there were a
Mazda lamp over your kitchen
range you'd save yourself
endless bother and trouble.
MLSO
I FT"
T-H
-J
THE
PERFECT
ELECTRIC LAMP
FOR GOOD LIGHT AT EVERY POINT
Stay in the Centre
of MELBOURNE
Rooms from 4/- to 16/-
m
Located beside Melbourne Town
Hall, the Victoria is Aus-
tralia’s largest, n.ost modern
hotel. Every comfort. Un-
rivalled catering. Moderate
“Room Only” tariff —Singles,
4/- to 7/0: Doubles. SI- to
16/- per day. Write Dept. 816
for free illustrated booklet.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST NON-LICENSED HOTEL
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Some Larrakiyah must surely
have sat on Lovers’ Walk along Darwin
Harbor to point a bone at Common-
wealth authority. Since the war one
Administrator living in the Residency
overlooking the harbor has been de-
ported. Another was found guilty of
assault by a civil jury because he put out
some agitators who were telling his after-
noon-tea guests that they were eating the
bread of tyranny. The Government Sec-
retary’s house near the water’s edge was
burnt down not long ago. The Darwin
wharf, when built, achieved a right-
angled bend which doubles the work of
ship loading and nobody seems to be
able to get it straight. When George
Pearce bought a fine boat several years
ago and ordered it out posthaste to
search for the Douglas Mawson women,
the Darwin tide set in against it, and it
took a day for it to get out of the harbor.
When a flying boat was sent from Mel-
bourne to welcome a British bomber
squadron from Singapore, it found itself
unable to get off the harbor. The fear-
some vessel recently built to deal with
Japanese poachers was no sooner there
than it sank. And it had no sooner been
raised than it was discovered hanging in
the air by its painter, where the receding
tide had left it. Final confirmation came
with the arrival of Dr. Earle Page. Step-
ping off the naval flying-boat which
brought him from Singapore he fell in
among the sharks and alligators with a
loud splash.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: New Guinea Mandate has
had a record financial year. Gold ex-
ports fell off a bit, but copra prices im-
proved, and the Government was able
to collect £400,000 from the small white
population and the few thousand con-
trolled natives who pay taxes. Ninety
thousand pounds is to be spent on new
works ; that sum should go a long way
with native labor.
* * * *
“Marama”: Public life in Fiji might
lack drive and bustle, but it has its digni-
ties. The Chief (and only) Justice, for
instance, is “his Lordship” to the press,
and when there was a council in control
of Suva, which is the size of a smallish
Australian country township, the mayor
had a chain. Last year the Crown abol-
ished the elective council and substituted
a nominated town board. So at the coun-
cil’s last meeting the three councillors
present decided to give the retiring mayor
his chain of office as a memento of his
reign. The council auditors refused to
certify the transaction, and after months
of argument sued the councillors for
£l3 10s. and got a verdict.
* ❖ *
“X.T.”: The Aerial Medical Services,
which have largely solved the problem
of caring for the hurt and sick over a
vast area of interior and northern Aus-
tralia, did their great job last year on
a shoestring. They collected only £2620
from all sources, the Westralian Health
Department paying the salary of the fly-
ing doctor at Wyndham. Apart from
other work, one of their ’planes flew 4000
miles during the search for the missing
R.A.F. Dragon. Often the flights are
made over uncharted and hazardous
country, but no call is refused. The service
warrants the Commonwealth and State
Governments most concerned —Queens-
land (base Cloncurry) and W.A. (base
Wyndham) —in contributing £20.000 a year
to extend the good work, particularly to
provide radio ’phones and medical equip-
ment for emergency calls at all centres.
“Zedo”: The human race takes to vast
changes with astonishing calmness. In
1907 at Brisbane G.P.O. we listened to
noises from the contraption we then
called a telephone. It was, I think, the
first talk between Brisbane and Sydney.
Three years afterwards the late George
Taylor and J. L. Balsillie walked into my
office to say they had actually received
Morse code on a moving mail train. In
1911 I made my first trip to the Northern
Territory, and it took six months. Also,
I had my first aeroplane flight, on Ascot
racecourse (Brisbane): we went up in a
shiver of struts and came down stone
deaf from the roar of the Caudron, and
“ Hey , keep yr finger orf the trigger—them cartridges cost fourpence
a go!"
offering up thanksgiving for having
flown three-quarters of a mile without
disaster. In 1912 I went with Andy
Fisher, who was addressing a meeting 12
miles out of Gympie (Q.). We travelled
by buggy, and I had four boys with
horses to take the copy in over the dark
road when it had been written by candle-
light. In Sydney a few days ago (August
25) I saw A. M. Blain, M.P., off to the
N.T., shutting off the radio in the car
that took us to the station so that we
might talk about the installation of radio
’phones on every N.T. station. He was
going to Darwin to address a meeting,
and remarked casually that he had to be
back in Adelaide on September 8. and
would see me on the way. By 1940 it will
be possible to fly to Darwin one day,
address a meeting at night and be' back
in Sydney next day.
* * *
“Oke”: The latest batch of Brisbane
motoring fines for speeding reminds me
that the traffic cop has not always got
away with his charges in Brisbane. Years
ago, the Force descended on a lady artist
who was whirling about the streets at the
then dreadful velocity of about 30 miles
an hour and haled her before the beak.
“Well, madam,” said his Washup tartly,
“what excuse have you to offer for this
dangerous conduct?” Said the lady
meekly, in a small voice: “Only that I
was trying to catch up to the Commis-
sioner of Police, who was in front of me.
J wanted to speak to him.” A sad-eyed
constabulary then went out to lie in wait
for another victim.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
There were 72 hosts at the Bachelors’
Ball, and was it a gesture of defiance
that prompted them to decorate the gal-
lery at the S. Brisbane Technical Col-
lege with a leap-year frieze? The deco-
rations were queer, but attractive —a
triple canopy of red, black and green
streamers, with a brightening touch of
silver. The light gleamed dimly through
all this, and made complexions extra
beautiful. Sholto Douglas, Tony Shepherd,
Archie Douglas, Eb Luya and Charles
Mant were official hosts. Marjorie Wil-
son and her brother Peter attended. There
were many dinners beforehand, Una Bell,
of Coochin, entertaining a big crowd.
Other hosts and hostesses included the
Des Shaws and Essil and Archie Long-
land.
At 5 p.m. on Aug. 22 the telephone
at Bishopsbourne rang, and Archbishop
and Mrs. Wand heard the voice of daugh-
ter Kathleen, just about to leave the
home of her uncle, Major C. A. Wiggins,
in England, to keep an important appoint-
ment at St. Leonard’s Parish Church with
Michael Addison, the nice young Eng-
lishman who was here earlier in the year.
He is the son of the Right Hon. Chris-
topher Addison, of Bucks.
The three debs, at the Ambulance Bali,
Betty Ives, Joan Meier and Zena
Richards, were presented with miniature
ambulance wagons after making their
bows to the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Aid. and Mrs. A. J. Jones.
Mrs. E. H. Green was matron-of-honor.
Twenty-four debs, at the Mater Ball
were presented to Archbishop Duhig and
to Archbishop Killian, of Adelaide, by
Mrs. H. J. Windsor. Sisters of Mercy
at All Hallows’ made the lovely debu-
tantes’ cake.
All in brown, with a huge posy of
daffodils pinned to the lapel of her
jacket, and wearing a brown hat with
an amber buckle, Mrs. W. Kent, of Jon-
daryan, entertained 20 guests at luncheon
at Lennon’s before everybody started to
pack up to go home.
Same day, at the Belle Vue, Mr. and
Mrs. W. J. Lloyd, of Harrow, daughter
Shirley and son Kenneth had over 150
guests at a delightful five-to-seven party.
Gold and orange poppies were the deco-
rations, and most of the guests danced
happily, regardless of the fact that they
had to rush away and dress for yet an-
other dance in the evening.
Informal but very cheery was the Vic-
torian Association dance at the Carlton
Cabaret. R. Collier Vincent and his lady,
she wearing a white velvet coat and a
shoulder spray of jade green with her
white frock, received the guests. Patron
H. C. Saunders was there with his wife,
who topped her black velvet frock with
a coat of gold brocade.
The Old Southportians’ fifteenth annual
ball at the Trocadero was relieved with
song, an impromptu effort, supplied
gratis. President Gordon Lahey received,
ably seconded by his wife, who looked
charming in her red frock, which she
wore with one of the new mannish-look-
ing jackets.
One who avoided the tumult and the
shouting of Show Week was Freda Bage,
who motored to Melbourne before the
fuss began, and came back after it was
all over. Gwen Hughes, Nesta Brown
and Leila Macnish went with her, and
an extra passenger, Isobel Hannah, made
the journey back.
The committee of the Incapacitated
Sailors and Soldiers’ Association enter-
tained Mrs. J. D. Cunningham, Mayoress
of Charleville, at a musical afternoon at
McWhirter’s cafe. Mrs. Edgar Robinson,
president of the ladies’ committee, and
Matron Malone, vice-president, did the
honors.
Mrs. E. Woolley, hon. general secre-
tary, presented the twenty-second annual
report of the Red Cross, showing
that £lBOO had been spent on extras for
returned men in institutions, and that
orders for groceries, meals and accom-
modation also had been distributed.
Lady Wilson attended the meeting, and
handed over long-service medals to the
stalwarts who have kept on working for
the Red Cross for 20 years ana over.
War nurses are working for funds to
establish a home for Diggers who can’t
work. At a bridge evening in the Lord
Mayor’s and Lady Mayoress’s rooms at
the Citv Hall, Miss E. M. Paton,.
A.R.R.C., president of the Returned
Nurses’ sub-branch, was hostess to 400
guests. Miss R. Huxley, Mrs. T. Porter,
Miss Q. Cave and Miss L. Leitch were
the committee, and Mrs. W. J. Sterne,
Miss J. M. Hart,. R.R.C., and Miss W.
Payne helped keep things moving.


RADIO ACCUMULATORS
r
m
2A YEARS' GUARANTEE
New cases and fittings,
heavy duty plates. Fully
charged.
--volt 100 amp 17/-
-t-volt 80 amp 23/-
0-volt 80 amp 32/-
Packing 1/6 extra.
Send your inquiries for
all types of CAR and
Home Lighting Batteries.
“B” BATTERIES.
45-volt “CLIMAX,” full voltage, long
life. Made by one of the .largest matui-
faetiirers in Australia. Guaranteed for
3 months against faults.
Triple Duty, 15/-. Light Duty, ’7/6.
Heavy Duty, 12/-. “C” Batteries, 2/-.
HEADPHONES.
Continental, lightweight, 4000 ohms.
very sensitive, pair 7/6
Please add freight to all orders.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
’Phone: FX5494.
\5
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, AAV.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687. 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. AH tested and guaranteed: Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARC AD IS, SYDNEY.
<XXE#I.
1936 A.V.C.
PEN TAG RID FOUR,
£6/5/-.
RADIO NEWS
A CURRENT ECONOMISER FOR BATTERY SETS.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
For economical battery consumption
with comparatively high audio output, a
Class-B or Q.P.P. stage is frequently em-
ployed. The method described here makes
use oi what may be termed a variable
bias battery. It may be used with any
ype of output valve and needs no special
transformers, yet achieves a similar result.
How It Works.
A high bias sufficient to reduce the
current taken by the last valve to one or
The Economiser circuit.
two milliamps. is applied to the grid of
this valve by means of the normal C-
battery terminals. In order that loud
signals may be passed without distortion,
A.C. at speech frequencies is taken from
the plate of the output valve and recti-
fied by a small valve. The fluctuating
rectified current is filtered by a 100,000-
ohm resistance and a .25mfd. condenser,
and neutralises some of the voltage of
the C battery, thus reducing the high
bias on the grid of the output valve to
a value sufficiently low to enable the
signal to pass without distortion. The
stronger the signal the more will
grid voltage be reduced ; thus the bias
on the output valve is always just low
enough to permit the valve to deal with
the signal.
The Circuit.
The valve used in the economiser unit
may be of any type. If a cathode valve
is used it may be run from the normal
A battery, but directly-heated valves
need a separate filament supply. A low-
consumption two-volt valve working
from a single dry cell is all that is needed,
and so long as the valve has a milli-
amp. or so of emission left it will be
satisfactory. Months of service have
been obtained using an old A 209 with
two 1.5-volt torch cells wired in parallel.
A Westector would be more suitable
for the rectifier, as this battery may then
be dispensed with.
Construction.
The unit is built into a small case
measuring 6in. x 4in. x sin., containing
also a nine-volt C battery and the two
J.5-volt torch cells mentioned previously.
On the front of the box is the filament
switch and the knob of the poten-
tiometer. Three external connections go
respectively to the C+ and C— termi-
nals on the receiver and to the plate of
the output valve, connection to which is
made by a small eyelet the plate leg of
this valve passes through.
Operation.
The C-battery voltage is increased to
about double that normally used on the
output valve, and the slider of the 4-meg.
potentiometer is turned towards the
earth end of the latter. After switching
on, signals should be heard, probably
distorted. Clarification is effected by
adjustment of the potentiometer knob. A
milliammeter in the plate lead to the
last valve is helpful, and loud signals
should be accompanied by a correspond-
ing rise in plate current. The nearer the
potentiometer slider is to the end
connected to
the 100,000-ohm
fixed resistor, the
greater will be the
current drain on
loud signals.
Hence, for econ-
omy, the poten-
tiometer knob
should be kept as
far away from
this position as is
consistent with
good quality.
When listening
to talks a certain
amount of distor-
tion can be toler-
ated, and the
potentiometer may be turned closer to
the earth end, thus effecting a further
saving in plate current.
The following are measurements made
on a C243N pentode:
plate. C Bat. No Sig. Current. Peaks.
15Qv. 10.5 v. 2ma. |sma.
6.0 v. -ma. 7 °™ a
VK3AH.
60kw. broadcast transmitter, designed and manufactured by Amalgamated
Wireless for the Maoriland national,broadcasting service at Wellington.
The transmitter is here seen temporarily assembled to undergo testing
trials before being shipped to Maoriland.
Giant A.W.A. Transmitter for M.L.
On 17/8/’36 Sydney radio journalists
inspected, by invitation of A.W.A., the
new high-power broadcasting trans-
mitter for 2YA Wellington (M.L.). Stand-
ing in the test section of the works at
Ashfield (N.S.W.), the apparatus had an
impressive appearance. Details were ex-
plained by chief-engineer McDonald.
Transmitter with associated modula-
tion and power equipment employs
more power than the combined totals of
current used by the 29 broadcasting
stations in the Australian capital cities.
It is thus the largest broadcasting plant
yet constructed in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
Unmodulated power in the aerial is
60,000 watts; power necessary for
operation, about 350,000 watts. The
high-quality system of series modulation
is employed, as in other stations of the
M.L. national service installed by
A.W.A., and in some Australian B sta-
tions. (The system is used in pretty well
all 8.8. C. stations also.) When the trans-
mitter is modulated to fully 100 p.c., the
instantaneous power fed to the aerial on
modulation peaks will be 240,000 watts.
A single tower —designed to withstand
wind velocity of 110 m.p.h. and fixed
upon insulators —will carry the radiating
system. It will be 700 ft. high and
approximately 400 yards from the trans-
mitter house. All guying supports will
be insulated and the various insulated
lengths so proportioned that there will be
no risk of fundamental or harmonic
radiation to distort the wave pattern
from the aerial itself.
There is no bewildering maze of opera-
tion for the engineers ; the control con-
sole is almost human. Colored push
buttons are operated in sequence from
a small panel, and relays in the trans-
mitter units ensure time delay action in
applying high voltages. Should any
defect occur a special breaker control
automatically cuts all high tension, safe-
guarding apparatus and valves. From
console operating position the engineer
can see at a glance what is happening in
any portion of this huge station. Interest-
ing features of the output section to the
aerial equipment are the harmonic sup-
pression devices and the massive Fara-
day screening between coupling coils.
The new station, undoubtedly a fine
job, perfectly engineered, is to be
erected on a hill north of Titahi Bay,
several miles north of Wellington. From
there unimpeded radiation will be ob-
tained, and it is confidently expected
that the programme will be received
without difficulty throughout M.L. and in
Australia and the South Pacific gener-
ally.
This is the fifth station designed by
A.W.A. for the M.L. national service in
the last three years. Efficient as the pre
vious ones are, Maorilanders will enjoy
an exceptionally powerful broadcasting
voice in the new station.
What’s What in Radio.
A high-definition television station at
Moscow, designed to have a range of
about 25 miles, is expected to be
ready early next year, and will probably
mark the commencement of a regular
television service in U.S.S.R. At present,
as in many other countries, there are
several transmitters working spasmodi-
callv, but there is apparently no regular
service.
* * * *
The superheterodyne principle of re-
ception first appeared in 1917, and con-
troversy concerning the identity of the
inventor —rival claimants being the
American Armstrong and the French-
man Lucien Levy—continues, although
even American authorities long ago ad-
mitted the priority of Levy’s claitn. But
the American admission is qualified by
the contention that the invention was
merely a practical development of the
idea of heterodyne reception conceived
by Fessenden 10 years earlier.
Casual Comment.
“Hotvalve”: A representative of.
Philips radio organisation in Sydney, on
duty at the last Royal Agricultural Show,
was approached by a woman who asked
if a Philips Radioplayer would work by
gas. She was quite serious. Actually, a
gas-operated receiver is not out of the
question. In earlier days gas-operated
triodes used to be advertised in the
pages of “QST.” The cathode was a
small spoonlike affair containing a
mineral salt and heated by a gas jet. The
idea was again discussed quite recently
in a European radio journal, and there
appears to be no technical objection to
gas-heated valves other than the incon-
venience and likelihood of leakage from
gas tubing, etc.
* * * *
“G.H.”: Wally Pankhurst, of Double
Bay (N.S.W.), travelling from Sydney in
a 16-footer launch, picked up
2UW’s midnight to dawn programme on
an Astor 220 receiver. He was over
1000 miles from 2UW, at sea off the
coast of N.Q.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
With conditions changing, reception is
improving at night, and all three bands,
19, 25 and 31 metres, have stations from
9 p.m. onwards at good strength.
As expected, Germany had many sta-
tions on the air for the Olympic Games:
of those using English the one best re-
ceived was that at the H.F. end of the
25-metre band, though it was never equal
to DJB on ordinary programmes.
The Russian on 70 metres has been
strong after 9 p.m., with very fine music;
2RO is now up to strength in the special
English session at midnight, also at 8
a.m., both transmissions being in the
25-metre band.
The D.E.I. stations on 27, 29 and 31
metres have much improved, and are
good after 10 p.m., but DJA and DJN
are only fair in the same band. . Some
unusual reception of 2ME has been
noted ; usually this station is not heard
in my locality at night until midsummer.
Americans have all been poor, ’phone
strength at best, except for W2XAF test-
ing with VK2ME on occasions in the 31-
metre band.
Some extraordinary reception has been
experienced in the 20-metre amateur
band. Usually Sydney amateurs are not
heard because of skip, but one recent
Saturday afternoon stations using very
low power were coming in so strongly
that even with no aerial connected it was
difficult to keep the strength down to
reasonable volume.
NIGHTOWL.
Improving Pentode Quality.
Remarkable fidelity can be obtained
from a single audio pentode output stage
if correctly used. The amateur con-
structor, however, particularly in the
battery-set class, does not always have
access to correct components ; he makes
shift with substitutes, and the result of
that can be harsh and unpleasant
reproduction. Because the impedance
varies considerably according to the
frequency of the sound being repro-
duced, it is necessary to connect a
filter, consisting of a condenser and resist-
ance across the loudspeaker, to keep con-
ditions reasonably correct at all frequen-
cies. The diagram shows the application,
with typical values.
Larger capacities may often be applied
with advantage. Connection may be


Send for our technical
bulletin 11 AW on
x °
TWIN CHASSIS
11 - VALVE
DE LUXE ALL-WAVE HIGH-FIDELITY RECEIVER
Here is at last a de luxe model at least two years ahead of mass produc-
tion receivers ... a set so sensitive that foreign stations come in like
locals . . . yet so engineered that interfering noises are kept in the
background ... a set that gives you twice the tonal range of the next
best, yet does not cost as much as other makes that give but half the
performance. Twenty watts undistorted output.
GEORGE BROWN & COMPANY, LTD.,
El»ctrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
X.S.W. A {fonts: llola Reproducers, Van Ruytcn Car and Launch Radio, Milliard Radio Viiltfs
“RADIO”
The progressive radio publication
for the short-wave experimenter.
Subscription now reduced to l'6/6
per year, acceptable at “The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“RADIO” is published monthly in
Los Angeles (U.S.A.) under date
as of the following month; ten issues
yearly, including special annua!
number; the August and September
issues (which would normally
appear in July and August) are
omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers
direct from U.S.A.
Read "RADIO” regularly and keep
in advance of the times.
made either to B negative or B positive ;
in ; he latter case across the speaker trans-
former primary. A battery-powered
receiver is much more difficult to keep
from overloading in the output stage
than a receiver powered from A.C.
supply, so that it is even more important
to make sure that what power can be
provided is being used lo the best
advantage.
Amateur Chatter.
The unseasonable climatic change dur-
ing Sydney’s supposedly wintry August
resulted in unexpected DX conditions
showing up on 20 metres. (The writer
has not observed conditions on 10 metres,
but possibly the change has been reflected
there also.) One particular afternoon Aus-
tralian 20-metre ’phone users were sur-
prised to find several English ’phones on
the band at good strength. VKs who
had never previously even worked
Europe on the key made ’phone con-
tacts. In the evening, the schooner Mor-
Remotely-controlled transmitter at the
experimental wireless station of the Aus-
tralian Corps of Signals, N.S.W. This
equipment is maintained by Sergeants
Caletti and Jessup, of Second Divisional
Signals.
risey was heard somewhere in the North
Polar regions, and VK2ABD, of Belle-
vue Hill, Sydney, tied up with the
schooner on ’phone. VK2ABD is a 20-
metre ’phone station with a large fol-
lowing among Americans.
An interesting power-reduction test
recently took place between VK2ABD
and W6LLQ, the Australian gradually
reducing power until the input to the
final stage neared half a watt. Even so,
the American reported every word clear
at R 6.
Reg Tibbetts (W6ITH) was heard to
state recently that he is erecting four
400 ft. towers to support a rhombic
antenna for 75-metre ’phone, with the
object of working Australia on that band.
The transmitter of the five-metre appa-
ratus used by VK4AW in Brisbane and
giving reception in Hazelbrook (N.S.W.)
to E. B. Ferguson is not of advanced
design, but consists of a series-fed Hart-
ley oscillator with a single 210 modu-
lated by push-pull 50’s. The antenna is
merely a 66ft. horizontal Zepp. If
signals can be received at this distance
with apparatus not intended for the pur-
pose, obviously better results should be
obtained with stabilised transmission.
Queensland division of the W.I.A. did
a good job for the Aero Club pageant
in Brisbane (15/8/’36). The races, over
a triangular course, were assisted by 80-
metre amateur stations at each pylon,
the equipment operating under the calls
VK4HR, VK4FN and VK4RY. The
control station at the Aero Club house
was VK4AW, and at this point five-
metre communication was also used for
duplex working with a car patrolling the
aerodrome.
VK2NO.
Netherlands Indies Broadcasting
Services.
D. G. Mackie, of Mt. Isa (Q.), an en-
thusiastic short-wave listener, recently
received a comprehensive booklet giving
full details of the N.1.R.0.M. group of
short-wave broadcasters. The N.1.R.0.M.
started broadcasting officially on March
31, 1934. Until then only a few local
stations had been operating in the bigger
cities, the cost being met by members of
local radio societies. N.1.R.0.M. started
with four stations, increasing to
21 in 18 months. Sixteen take pro-
grammes by landline from the Batavia
control station, and the other six broad-
cast local native programmes, All
stations can be switched over to studios
at Sourabaya, Bandoeng and Semarang.
Because of tropical atmospherics, no
wave-length above 200 metres is used. The
long-distance stations operate below 100
metres and the locals between 100 and
200 metres. Eastern Australian times for
the long-distance station transmissions
are 8 to 10.30 a.m., 1.30 to 5 p.m. and
8.30 p.m. to 1.30 a.m. or 2 a.m., and the
calls and wave-lengths of the transmit-
ters are: YDA (Tandjong Priok), 98.68 m.,
10,000 watts; YDB (Sourabaya), 31.2 m.,
1000 watts; PMN (Bandoeng), 29.24 m.,
1500 watts; and PLP (Bandoeng),
27.27 m., 1500 watts. Whenever big
features are broadcast in European
countries a special receiver relay centre
near Batavia takes them from the Philips
station PHOHI in Holland and passes
them to all N.1.R.0.M. transmitters.
N.1.R.0.M. administration is controlled
by a committee of 12, eight elected by
licensed listeners, holding office for two
years. Two members are appointed by
the Government, and the other two are
the general broadcasting manager and
an assistant. N.1.R.0.M. broadcasting
caters for about the most thickly-popu-
lated country in the world, for Java has
40,000,000 inhabitants.
Radiotron 6L6 Beam Tetrode
Amplifier.
Radiotron 6L6 is a new type of tetrode
intended for use in the power output
stage of an A.F. amplifier. Unlike most
earlier double-grid valves, the 6L6 does
not exhibit any secondary emission
effects at low plate and control-grid
voltages; its characteristics, therefore,
resemble those of the usual power output
pentodes. Attractive features of the 6L6
are high power output, high efficiency
and high power sensitivity.
The Pentode Suppressor Grid.
When the plate voltage of the usual
tetrode is less than the screen voltage,
an appreciable number of secondary
electrons, which are emitted from the
plate because of bombardment by
primary electrons, are attracted to the
screen ; the plate current, therefore, is
greatly reduced. For this reason the
plate voltage of the usual tetrode should
not swing below the screen voltage if
the output is to be substantially free
from distortion. A zero potential sup-
pressor grid, positioned between screen
and plate, serves to prevent the loss of
plafe current due to second-
ary emission. Hence, in a
pentode, the plate voltage can
be made less than the screen
voltage without appreciable
secondary emission effects.
The 6L6 dispenses with a
physical suppressor in order
to reduce secondary emission,
effects. Suppression is ob-
tained by creating a potential
minimum between G 2 and
plate by space-charge effects.
The electron * stream to the
plate is confined to a beam
whose electrons have nearly
uniform path lengths and
velocities. Such a design re-
sults in a plate characteristic
that has a relatively sharp
knee at low plate voltage.
The Virtual Cathode.
If there were a valve in which each
electron traversed the same distance in
the same time on its journey from
cathode to plate, many of the pentode
difficulties could be obviated. Consider
such a tetrode. Apply a voltage to
screen, and a lower voltage to plate.
Shifting the plate further from the screen
under those conditions, there is found to
be a point of minimum potential be-
tween screen and plate, which tends to
repel secondary electrons, preventing
their passage to the screen.
The cloud of electrons near the posi-
tively charged plate is, in effect, a virtual
cathode, the position of which is changed
by varying the control-grid voltage or
the plate potential. With the correct
screen to plate distances, the potential
can be made just enough -to suppress
secondary emission effects. The plate
then acts as a diode plate.
To simulate the ideal conditions the
electron streams must be focused into
some form of parallel “beams.” In the
6L6, this has been done by carefully
winding the two grids with the same
pitch, and even more carefully aligning
them so that each turn of the screen
grid lies exactly outside that of the con-
trol grid along a line perpendicular to
the cathode.
In pentode valves, the grid side rods
do much to disturb the field near the
plate. To overcome such effects in the
6L6, two side plates, called “beam-form-
ing plates,” have been placed at the sides
of the grids in the plane of the virtual
cathode, as shown in the diagram. Being
held at cathode potential, these plates
effectively screen the plate from the field
of the side rods of the screen grid, and
deflect the “beams” into paths very
nearly perpendicular to the axis of the
cathode after passing the screen.
While the overall distortion for a given
output is less with Radiotron 6L6 than a
single 42-type pentode, at higher out-
puts, which would seriously overload the
latter valve, the predominant harmonic
produced by the 6L6 is the second.
When used in push-pull this can be nulli-
fied, and far greater outputs at low
distortion are possible when the valve
is operating along its optimum load line.
Service Hints.
If impregnating grease oozes out of
condenser-cans on to other components
it may be readily removed with a little
petrol on a clean soft rag.
An old dynamic speaker may be
brightened in appearance and tone by
applying several coats of thin shellac to
the diaphragm.
Stand the receptacle in which acid and
water are being mixed for accumulators
in a dish of cold tap-water. When the
neat acid is added the heat generated is
dissipated more readily and time is saved.
The serviceman or experimenter who
uses nothing but resin-cored solder would
do well to invest in some plumbing solder
and a small tin of soldering-paste. In a
recent job a heavy-duty voltage-divider
had to be added to a receiver pre-
viously minus a divider of any sort.
The under-chassis layout was altered
to make room when it was found
that in the only possible position avail-
able the bolt-holes for the divider fell
foul of components on top of the
chassis. Bolts were dispensed with and
the divider was soldered to the chassis.
Resin-cored solder will not take to a steel
chassis ; ordinary solder plus a paste will.
R. H. A.
Velocity Microphone Tip.
Many amateur transmitters and users
of public-address equipment are employ-
ing the velocity microphone. This type
of microphone is quite easily constructed
from an old magneto magnet. Illustrated
is an idea for improvement in a velocity
microphone. “B” is a “sound-absorbing
labyrinth” packed with felt or other
highly-damped material, effective in pre-
venting back-wave absorption. This can
be made up from bakelised paper or
other insulating material.
The Q. and A. Column.
I have a four-valve receiver which emits a
loud hum that obliterates soft music. I am
advised that the hum is caused by interference
in the power supply. P.O. radio inspector
reports: “Hum apparently 100 cycle, not
affected by tuning, and not evident elsewhere
in vicinity; originates in set.” What can be
done ? —459.
Cause appears to lie in the filtering system;
possibly electrolytic condensers are giving
trouble. Pass the R.f.’s report on to the service
people and insist that the chassis be given a
systematic overhaul.
* * * *
(1) What regulations govern the use of
wireless telephone or wireless buzzer (Morse
apparatus) for communication between isolated
districts, radius about 30 miles ? (2) Approxi-
mate cost of installation, license, etc. ?
Apparatus would be operated by batteries.— 4sB.
(1) Conditions would be imposed by the
Chief Radio Inspector’s Dept, if a license were
granted. Apply to Chief Radio Inspector,
Treasury Gardens, Melbourne. (2) Low-
powered battery equipment should not cost
more than £l5 per station, including license.
(I) Is “crackle finish” paint procurable in
Sydney ? (2) I take it that Masonite is some-
thing like fibro-cement. Is it obtainable in
Australia P ——46l.
(1) Try G. E. Crane and Sons, 33 Pitt-street,
Sydney. (2) Masonite is entirely different from
fibro-cement, and is probably not obtainable
in Australia. It is processed from a wood
fibre, and has the appearance of a smooth
wood, minus grain. It is easy to work and ideal
for panels for radio transmitters or other
apparatus.
i'i- •!'
(1) Is it possible to buy a receiver that will
give in W.A. daylight reception from leading
broadcast stations in Eastern States? (2) If so,
what make and what type of aerial ? (3) Have
you tested the 11 -valve Ultimate set advertised
in The Bulletin ? (4) Can you recommend
it ? —460.
(1) and (2) Should be possible under favor-
able atmospheric conditions to hear stations
across Australia on the broadcast band in day-
light, but this would not be consistent, even
with a receiver made for the purpose. W.A.
stations can be heard at intervals in daylight
at some N.S.W. country centres. A receiver
such as you have in view would have to be
experimental. The aerial would necessarily be
of special design, with directional qualities
eastward, and would be an unwieldy affair.
(3) Yes. (4) Yes, heartily.


••SILVER
EDGE"
fiayk&itbit
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LININQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, l He*
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
The Steering Column.
HIGH TOP GEARS AND OVERDRIVES.
FAST CRUISING AT LOW ENGINE REVS.
BY FRED BERRY.
MECHANICAL improvements in automobile design during
the last few years have mostly had the dual object of
making matters easier for the driver and improving the dur-
ability of car mechanism. Air cleaners, oil purifiers, improved
lubricating systems, alloy cylinder blocks and freewheeling,
among other things, have furthered these aims. Now comes
another important innovation; the provision of some form or
other of “overdrive” in the transmission. Why the “overdrive”
came into being and what it accomplishes, this article explains.
Until comparatively recently gear-
box and rear-axle mechanisms were much
the same as when first designed. Cer-
tainly in later years the gears were
slightly more efficient and quieter, but
even five years ago, with few exceptions,
gears were noisy in indirect ratios.
Insistent public demand required the
car to operate with as little vibration and
noise as possible. With the revolutionary
change of mounting the motor by allow-
ing it to swing on rubber supports in-
stead of bolting it firmly to the chassis,
noise from the motor was reduced con-
siderably, and, as would be expected,
transmission noises then began to receive
attention. So the helical (silent) gear was
evolved and used in mass-production
cars, and it was even found possible to
use other than straight-cut pinions on
sliding shafts within the gearbox.
The use of less noisy gearing was ex-
tended to the differential assembly.
Whereas, except in the few instances in
which worm drive was used, the crown
An cany attempt at solving the gear-ratio problem—the
Lucas variable speed gear built in 1899. Note expanding
pulleys and silent chain drive.
wheel and pinion were almost invariably
designed with straight-cut teeth, to-day
the standard practice is to use helical-
cut teeth and hypoid drives, ensuring
higher efficiency, longer life and silent
operation.
With regard to the gearbox, there are
lew exceptions to-day to the use of syn-
chiomesh or constant-mesh gears at
least, in the higher ratios and as a con-
sequence the motorist is provided wi h
power and transmission gearing virtually
free from .vibration and quiet in opera-
t j on
Pre-war Experiments.
To arrive at the most efficient method
of transmitting power from the engine
to the road wheels innumerable expert-
ments, involving the expenditure of mil-
lions of pounds, have been made. Dur-
ing this experimental period many in-
genious ideas have been evolved and
applied in production models. As an in-
stance, the pre-war Cadillac, with its
dual crown wheel and pinion in the rear-
axle assembly, provided the driver with
six forward speeds and two in reverse ;
but, though the underlying idea was
sound enough, the average motorist re-
fused to be worried by nice calculations
as to whether he should use “high
second” or “low top” for best effect, and
so through the range of gear ratios.
Power from an internal combustion
motor depends mainly on revolutions ; at
low speeds of rotation the engine does
not develop its maximum power. Tn
regard to this designers of popular cars
have strongly differed. First are those
who, by fitting a relatively low gear-ratio
in the back axle, provide a car in which
acceleration in top gear, up to say 50
m.p.h., is of a high order, and hill-climb-
ing qualities are good, but at maximum
speed the engine is prone to be fussy.
The second group
includes designers
who, particularly
with the modern
synchromesh casy-
change gearbox, fit
the car with a high
oack-axle gearing,
so that at maxi-
mum speed the
engine turns at
relatively low
revolutions, with
consequent tack of
fuss and vibration.
Here, when rapid
acceleration from
low speeds is de-
sired, the intention
is that the driver
should change
speed by using the
gear lever and so
lower the ratio be-
tween engine and
road wheels. It must be admitted
that in the up-to-date conventional
three-speed gearbox this idea is sound
and effective, but the public still favors
a car in which the gear lever has to be
resorted to very seldom.
Every motorist must at some time or
other have realised, when travelling
over long easy grades, that it would be
much more comfortable and economical
if it were possible to use a much higher
ratio in the back axle than that fitted as
standard. Then comes the reflection that
such a gearing would have disadvantages,
for in negotiating steep grades and diffi-
cult bends a reasonably low ratio is essen-
tial.
Consequently, drivers using cars fitted
with a low back-axle ratio have the ad-
vantage in driving over difficult country,
while those using high gearing are bene-
fited on long straight runs.
Ideal Methods.
The ideal transmission would be a
widely variable ratio which would adjust
itself to circumstances. This has been
tried, Constantinesco, 10 years ago,
demonstrating conclusively that such a
mechanical contriv-
ance could be fitted
to a car and oper-
ated successfully.
Construction and
design of such a
gearbox were so
complicated, how-
ever, that manufac-
turers feared to
adopt it, realising
that the frequent
necessity for re-
pairs and adjust-
ments would more
than outweigh its
usefulness.
The fluid fly-
wheel has gone far
towards solving the
problems of trans-
mission, but a great
deal of experiment-
ing will have to be
done before this
device can be successfully adopted, par-
ticularly in quantity-production cars.
Latterly a compromise has been effected
in equipping the transmission with an
“overdrive” gear, and in practice this
device is proving highly efficient and
popular. Actually, the system is not new,
as in pre-war days a number of cars were
fitted with an “overdrive,” either in the
form previously described as used in the
Cadillac, or by fitting an auxiliary gear-
box in the transmission line.
The difficulty in reforming conven-
tional transmission types is that one must
invariably start off in low gear, and with
that as a basis three- and four-speed gear-
boxes are commonly used. For every-
day purposes, it has been found that the
three-speed synchromesh-type gearbox is
most effective, but fussiness at maximum
speeds is a drawback inherent to this type
of assembly. With the “overdrive”, fitted,
however, after reaching a predetermined
speed in top gear, an auxiliary mechan-
ism comes into operation which reduces
engine revs.; immediately by one-third,
provided the road speed remains con-
Cross section of a modern dual-ratio
gearing, located in rear axle assembly.
slant, or that' the road speed will be in-
creased by that value with constant
engine revs.
Overdrive Types.
Many types of “overdrive” have been
made, some located in the back-axle hous-
ing, others at the rear end of the gear-
box. The latter type is possibly the more
popular design to-day. In one of the
most popular types in use the “over-
drive” is mounted at the rear of the
transmission in a separate housing, and
is designed to automatically reduce the
ratio of engine speed to car speed with-
out shifting of gears when the road speed
is approximately 40 miles an hour. The
Principle of operation in gearbox overdrive. Dotted lines
show power line when freewheeling; solid line with over-
drive locked at high cruising speeds. Illustration from the
“Motor.”
actual point at which the “overdrive”
comes into operation can be varied
according to the work which the car is
being asked to perform.
With the “overdrive” in operation, the
engine speed is 30 p.c. slower than the
propeller shaft speed, while in conven-
tional drive the engine speed and pro-
peller shaft are the same.
The “overdrive” consists of a vibra-
tion damper mounted at the front to
cushion and quieten the drive ; a station-
ary gear, about which five pinions re-
volve on needle bearings ; an automatic
clutch engagement unit which cuts “over-
drive” in and out of operation, and,
finally, a freewheeling device at the rear
of the housing.
Automatic Operation.
Automatic engagement of the “over-
drive” is controlled by engine speed, but
can take place only when the freewheel
is in operation. This is controlled by a
push-pull button on the dashboard. When
the button is pulled out as far as possible,
a clutch shaft is moved to the rear, and
its teeth engage with the internal teeth of
the main shaft and the freewheel cam, so
making a solid unit and giving the con-
ventional fixed-gear drive. In the re-
verse position, when the button is pushed
in as far as possible towards the dash,
the clutch shaft is shifted forward so
that its teeth engage with the freewheel
cam and the “overdrive” clutch. In this
position the freewheel is in operation
whenever the car speed exceeds that of
the engine, but only below 40 miles an
hour, or whatever the predetermined
speed may be. After this point the driver
has merely to lift his foot from the
accelerator pedal for a couple of seconds,
and on again pressing it down the “over-
drive” will be found to be in action.
When shifting the control button on
the dash to either position it is essential
that the engine power should be on. The
clutch pedal should be depressed when
pulling out the dashboard control to
secure conventional drive.
It is inadvisable to lock out the “over-
drive” above 40 miles an hour, but obvi-
ously it is not necessary to lock out the
freewheel at speeds over 40 miles an


If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
WORK YOUR LAND AT LESS
COST., with an EFFICIENT FORDSON
70
r)*
im
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR—26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT... HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
...GOVERNOR CONTROL ... SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM...
CRANKCASE VENTILATION ... “HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER ... CLUTCH
PULLEY... POWER TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The English Fordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-
power on the market. And because it has ample economical
power, it will save time and money for you on every job
ploughing, harvesting, haulage or stationary work. Fordson
is available with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips.
A special Fordson Purchase Plan makes it possible for your
Tractor to earn its cost before you pay. Your local Ford
dealer will supply full particulars.
Fords oiv
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD.. Comer Bridge &
Young Streets. Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street. Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd.. City Shrms.: 601-3
Lit. Collins Street, Melb.
South Aust.: POWER PLANT LTD.,
98-100 Currie Street, Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD.. Hay Street, P c r t li
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
DESIGNED AND BUILT AT DAGENHAM, ENGLAND
hour, as the “overdrive” has automati-
cally been engaged.
When travelling at speeds lower than
the “overdrive” cut-in speed, with the
“overdrive” and freewheel unit unlocked,
transmission is through the clutch-shaft
teeth, giving direct drive.
When the accelerator is released and
the car speed exceeds the engine speed,
the car naturally freewheels through the
operation of the uni-directional clutch.
The method in which these changes of
rotation are made is very simple: when
the car is in operation the clutch core
and pawls rotate at the same speed, as
the clutch shaft is revolving faster than
the clutch shell, but when the car speed
exceeds the “overdrive” cut-in speed cen-
trifugal force, acting on the pawls, over-
comes the tension of the springs and
causes the pawls to fly out and engage
with slots in the clutch shell. Power
is now transmitted to the-clutch shaft, to
the pawls, to the clutch Shell, and then to
the planetary gear set. From this point
the power is transmitted by the pinions
to the ring gear internal teeth and to the
main shaft, and under these conditions
the freewheel unit is not in operation.
In practice it is possible to accelci ate
from low car speeds to the maximum
speed in direct drive without the “over-
drive” operating, owing to the difference
in rotating speeds of the clutch pawls and
clutch shell.
The “overdrive” clutch Will not engage
unless the throttle is completely closed
in order to permit both units to attain
the same speed after the predetermined
cut-in speed has been reached.
The value of overdrives depends largely
upon the type of car and the kind of
highway over which the car is to be
driven. When fitted to low-powered,
high-revving cars the device is of doubt-
ful utility, for even with the low-geared
back axle commonly used there is little
surplus power available for top-gear
acceleration.
In larger and more powerful cars the
device undoubtedly is of great benefit,
for with ample reserve power the “high-
top” gearing—usually approximately 3
to I—can be driven with ease, and at the
high-cruising speed made possible with
this gearing practically any main-road
hill can be taken in top. Should car
speed fall below 30 m.p.h., the gearing
will automatically return to conventional
top, the only indication given to the
driver being the higher engine revs, and
better pulling.
Under normal operating conditions the
overdrive, apart from improving the com-
fort of motoring owing to minimising
engine “fuss” at touring speeds, should
prove more economical than conven-
tional types. Fuel consumption should
be less, and engine life, owing to lower
revs, at high road speed, should propor-
tionately be increased.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
W.B. (Sydney).—7 am considering trading in
a ’2B sedan for a late-model car. New car
will be used only for week-ends and I want
to keep it for seven years. Which of the
cars mentioned would best suit me ?
No reason why any type mentioned should
not give good service without major overhaul
for 30,000 miles.
•i" ■ »!* -!* *i>
B.E. (Benalla, Vic.).—/ am having trouble
with oil system of my ’3O model four-cyl. car.
On disconnecting vacuum line from the oil-
vac. and holding finger over end, the oil gauge
will register, but fails when pipe is replaced.
Cause and cure ?
Either the flap-valve in the vacuum tank is
faulty or there is an air leak in pipe line be-
tween tank and pump. Check pipe line and
make certain there, is no air leak between
vacuum tank and pump. Look particularly
for small cracks in the metal tubing. If this
is sound, the trouble can be cured only by
fitting a new flap-valve in the vacuum tank.
* * ; i : *
Spruso (Sydney).—My ’2B model car
when in second gear will not pick up quickly
and makes a roaring noise. Cause and cure ?
Impossible to diagnose with certainty with
such scanty data, but the noise and sluggish
pick-up may both be due to excessive wear
and faulty alignment of pinions in gearbox.
* $ * $
L.A.B. (Victoria).—//! what order of pref-
erence would you place the two cars named —
/ desire mainly good hill-climbing and com-
fortable riding ?
No. 2 first.
=? * si:
W.N.G. (Waverley, N.S.W.). — What is the
cylinder pressure in the engine of a ’27 Stan-
dard Six Buick ?
Approximately 651 b. gauge pressure.
* * * *
R.J.H. (South Yarra, Vic.), —(1) Am con-
sidering purchase of a car (named), but liaye
been advised that the oiling system is inefficient.
Any truth in this ? (2) What mileage could I
expect before reboring ? (3) Where are Chev-
rolet cars manufactured ? (4) Where can I
obtain reliable figures of Vic. new car sales in
1935?
(1) No. (2) Depends largely upon how the
car is operated, but should not be less than
50,000 miles. (3) Engine and. chassis by
General Motors, Oshawa. (Canada). Body,
springs, most auxiliary units, batteries, tyres,
etc., are made in Australia. (4) Try Royal
Auto. Club of Victoria or Victorian Auto.
Chamber of Commerce.
* * * *
D.A.R. (Warwick, Q.). —/ have recently re-
sleeved my ’3O model car and fitted standard
pistons. Engine has been reconditioned
throughout, crankshaft and big-etul bearings
are in excellent condition, and the car runs
in every way as good as new except for exces-
sive oil consumption. Before pulling the motor
down it was. very light on oil. Ang sugges-
tions ?
Apparently some mistake has been made in
reassembly if the motor uses more oil than
•it did before overhaul. Make certain of the
following points: (I) Big ends should be
machined to a perfect fit, with no oil grooves
and no shims. (2) Mains should be the same
except for an oil groove extending one-eighth
round bearing. (3) Oil-squirt holes in big-
end bearing caps should be sealed. (4) Cast-
iron pistons should be fitted with Maxigroove
rings. (5) All rings should have a slight lead.
(6) Bottom of pistons should not be cham-
fered, but left with a cutting edge. (7) Make
certain there is no pressure in crankcase.
Wants.
M.S.M. (Rochester, Vic.) requires crown
wheel for 1927 Berliet Six.
Road Races for Cars and' Motor-
Cycles.
Having secured permission to close a
section of the road between Port Elliott
Diagram of the Port Elliott-Victor Harbor road-racing
circuit.
and Victor Harbor (S.A.), a syndicate
has promoted a Grand Prix road race
for cars and a Tourist Trophy race for
motor-cycles, the events to be held in
conjunction with the S.A. centenary cele-
brations on Dec. 26 and 29.
Prize money totals £705, and there are
valuable trophies. The circuit is 7| miles
in length, and the distance of the race
will be approximately 250 miles (32
laps).
The race is open to all factory-built
and catalogued racing cars and to all
catalogued sports cars, irrespective of
engine capacity, and the event will be
run on a handicap basis. Entries close
September 30.
Teams’ Contest for S.A. Car Rally.
Provided entries from four teams are
received (not necessarily from four sepa-
rate clubs), the committee controlling
the South Australian centenary inter-
state car rally will conduct a special con-
jest for teams from car clubs or similar
bodies. Teams will consist of three com-
petitors, who will each be eligible for
any of the 40 rally
prizes. There will
also be a prize for
each member of the
winning team, as well
as one for the club
entering the team.
It will not be
necessary to drive
the same make of
car or for the cars to
be in the same class.
The only condition
will be that a certifi-
cate of club member-
ship must accom-
pany each entry.
First prize will be
a 100-guinea gold
cup presented by the Dunlop-Perdriau
Co. ; second prize, a 50-guinea gold cup
presented by Federal Felters Pty., of Mel-
bourne. The Ford Motor Co. (Australia)
has donated the third prize, a £25 trophy.
In addition, General Motors-Holden’s,
f Ltd., has given a £5O prize for the
woman competitor who obtains highest
points..
Competing cars will be divided into
Class A, cars with an engine capacity
up to 1500 c.c., and Class B, cars with
an engine capacity over 1500 c.c. En-
tries close with the State Organising
Director, S.A. Centenary Celebrations,
Box 664 G, G.P.0., Adelaide, on Sept. 30.
Tinkering with Speedometers on
Used Cars.
In a case recently heard in U.S.A. <he
act of setting a speedometer back before
reselling was held to amount to fraud.
Details published in “American
Motor” reveal that a salesman, after
accepting as a “trade in” a car showing
46,000 miles on the speedometer, but still
in excellent condition, decided to alter
the reading to 6000. The car was sold to
an acquaintance of the original owner,
and when the alteration became known
suit was brought against the seller. The
company claimed privilege of common
usage.
In giving judgment for 1250 dollars,
the Judge said: “In regard to the com-
mon practice of turning back speedo-
meters this Court cannot agree with the
suggestion that all that was done was to
follow a practice of the trade. This
would not make the seller’s act any less
a misrepresentation. This case is unique
in that' it does not represent an isolated
wrong, but discloses perpetration of a
fraud purposely and deliberately done at
the expense of the buying public.”


<c
9)
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!— v
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an"invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return/-
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present ■ powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors,' having a direct bearing
on its" value as ,an advertising. medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates 1 on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & GO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne,' Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in thfe “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
.their products are getting in Tasmania
through this.publication. The,“Mercury,”
which' circulates in every corner of the
•State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
. combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania.' * That it' continues to grow’in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
.31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
' F. L. WILSON & 00., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collius St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper) - ’
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was ■
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE— A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.';
LONDON— F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4. |
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, tKe capital
city of New Zealand, is
• certain through the
columns of
. ‘‘The Evening Post’’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National _ j , /
Advertisers: ' '
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken-Hill'
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Detail* from I*. A. Messenger, Warwick .
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,-
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department. News/ Ltd., Adelaide. <
fds
f
Tasmania's Oldest and most
Modern N ewspdper
The Examiner
"AUDIT i
-BUREAU OF- :
CIRCULATION
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, , and the only daily
effectively covering Northern; Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
.iL. ... progressive North.
Full information, conies and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD.,, 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney. 7
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness mail should ignore.
It’s the station with a puli
in the country districts
of YV.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth, •
Western Australia.
higher social level, she preferred to mix with the
workers from the camp which had also been turned
out to spell. The view of the road from Corkscrew
Bend now held no allurements for her. With Break-
spear, Maureen, Dandy and Sasafras she fed on the
flat out from Duck Hole.
'T'HE Uadda Picnic Club held its annual meeting on
1 the twenty-fourth of May. The club had grown
It was influential. The best elements of the district
controlled it. It had a waiting list.
As the annual meeting was dated to fit in after
the first general musters of the year, and before the
bullock musters started, all stations attended in force.
Evans was there, in his string two Bluff Downs young-
sters —those from Sethia and Linen Duster.
“But they’re only babies, Evans,” Kilgour com-
plained. “Why, they’re only three!”
“Every horse that wins a Derby is only three,”
Evans retorted. “Many of them win Melbourne
Cups at' that age, too.”
Kilgour agreed. It was hardly worth while
pointing out that a Derby winner at three was forced,
grown and matured to equal a bush horse of five. ■
“I had this colt of Sethia’s, Set Down, broken
in as a two-year-old. He is set,” Evans continued.
“Dust Down, the filly from Linen Duster, was broken
in even earlier. In fact, I can’t say exactly when she
was broken. I took no chances with her. She was
too good to take chances with. You might say she’s
been broken in from the time she was weaned.”
“You might be right,” Kilgour said agreeably.
“Still, I prefer to let ’em develop under natural con-
ditions.” .
Set Downs started in the Breeders’ Plate. He
galloped like a half-grown pup. His legs seemed to
tangle themselves, and he sprawled all over the course.
“He hasn’t got the strength and muscular develop-
ment to hold himself together,” was Kilgour’s verdict.
Dust Down started in the big race of the first
day, The Bachelor’s Bag. She bounded out at flag-
fall and sped ahead of the field like a startled rabbit.
Literally, she was bolting, and it was only the horror
of those thundering hooves behind her which kept
her going.
One horse caught and passed her. Dust Down
swerved and flinched. The rest of the field swung on
her, engulfed her. She came out of the tail end of
them wallowing in her stride and struggling hopelessly
in pursuit.
“That thing has pace,” Evans exclaimed at Kil-
gour’s side. “She gets it from her mother. If she
only had her mother’s stamina she’d be a champion.
I think she’s short of a gallop. Did you see the way
she shut up?”
“If she was mine, and Set Down was mine,” .Kil-
gour said tartly, “I’d take ’em straight home and turn
’em out;in the biggest paddock I had. I wouldn’t let
anyone look at ’em, let alone touch ’em, until the
end of next March. That’s what I’d do with ’em.”
i
Chapter IX.
LESSONS.
AFTER Amathea had been in the camp a month
Harry decided to take her to the head station.
He reached the homestead late in the afternoon,
when the westering sun threw grotesque and mile-long
shadows, and White ribbons of birds in flight streamed
through the air and converged on central points as
the corellas flew to their communal camp. The wind
blew endlessly from the south-east, a clean 'wind,
dry, brittle, sparkling with life arid tinged with the
edge of ice. . . , i .
Harry’s mount, Membrane, swung along confi-
dently towards the yards, picking her feet up cleanly
and moving smartly with the action.which all horses
show when going to a well-known spot. Amathea,
with only a halter on her, and with the shank lightly
held in the rider’s hand, rah'beside the ridden mare,
head high. .: :
As Harryi reached the yards and just as he was
about to dismount, Kilgour. rode in. He had been
out round the Knob, through Balana Plains, and over
by the Sprinkler Bore, having a look at the country,
viewing the state of the stock —and enjoying the
whole process.
“G’day, Harry,” he said, dismounting beside his
head stockman. “What’s up?”
“Nothin’,” Harry replied. “I’m camped at th’
Weaner Yards. We’ll be shiftin’ down Pituri in th’
morning. Before 1 went down th’ bottom end 1
thought I’d bring this filly in to you. You want her,
don’t -you?” - • t <*" --- -
“What’s wrong with her, Harry?”
“Nothin’. I “only. thought you wanted her." ‘
'“I thought you’d keep- her longer,” Kilgour
replied,, standing, beside Amathea... and. commencing
the game with her which all young horses love to
play endlessly. ,He - put the flat of the palm of his
hand across her lips, muzzling her, and tickled the
side of her mouth with his middle finger. Immedi-
ately the mare reached forward, palpitating her lips,
trying to take the flat hand in her teeth.
“She’s quiet now,” Harry replied evenly.
“What’s wrong with her?” Kilgour■> repeated,
letting the mare’s teeth push his hand away and then
muzzling her again.
“Nothin’s wrong with her.”
“Then why’d you bring her in?”
“Because, Mr. Kilgour, this is th’ daddy of all
mares ! You never seen a thing come quicker to its
work. She likes it. A man don’t have to ride her
she carries him along.”
“Buck at all, Harry?”
' “Never humped her back. But by th’ feel of th
strength an’ balance of her, if she does buck shell
buck bad.” '
“And you.expect an old cove like me to ride a
raw filly ! ” Kilgour said in mock surprise. “Here it
is, the middle of winter, when all youngsters are a
bit tight when they’re saddled, and you spring a
soothing tale; of ; a rare buckjumper on me and tell
me there’s no need to worry. If she slings me I’ll
have to send her back to you again. Then it’s going
to take you twelve months to reform her. By
time you’ll be fond of her. If I want her there’s*
going to be a row —in fact, I’ll either have to do
without my mare or get a new head stockman. Ain’t
that they way it goes?”
“Oh, no,” Harry grinned, knowing the boss had
touched the fact of it; “This mare won’t sling you.”
“I’ll see she don’t!” Kilgour said with emphasis.
“Are" you staying here to-night? How about giving
her a ride for me in the morning, when it’s raw and
cold?”
“I got cattle in hand at th’ yards,” said Harry,
showing without the necessity of further words that
he had to return to the camp. “I’ll come up in th’
mornin’ an’ rough her for you if you like.”
“It’s all right,” Kilgour , laughed. “Don’t you
worry about me. i I’m old enough to look after my-
self.” He changed the subject. “Old Wally Budd’ll
be here about Wednesday week—you-know, the buyer
.for the Domestic and Meat Export Company. You’ll
have all the bullocks and fat cows in hand, will you?
I’ll bring him down to the camp. You’ll be ready,
eh? Good egg! Well, I suppose you’ll be haying a
feed before you-go back to the camp, Harry.”
NEXT day. Kilgour walked to the yards. Woppida
was there. The boss’s boy, he devoted his days
to showing a spurious eagerness for work between
the hours of just; after breakfast and. the morning
smoko. For the rest of the day his sole ambition was
to keep out of-sight,'dodge the. boss,, and. evade work.
Considering the fact that he was only an untutored
aborigine,; he- was wonderfully successful.
“Hey, Woppida,” Kilgour hailed him. “Come
here. You’ve got to act as my wet nurse. Does that
weigh-on you?”
| “Huh-ha,” Woppida agreed, and grinned.
He saw his boss was in a good humor. The
best reply was a laugh. Woppida laughed.
“Every time mine catch-it that one chestnut mare,
that-one Amathea, you been get-em ’nother horse an’
come belong-it me,” Kilgour directed him. “Every
time, now. Suppose-em you don’t, s’elp me goodness,
I’ll skin you alive!”
Woppida caught enough of the drift of the order
to; be impressed.
Kilgour drafted four horses, including Amathea,
into the round yard. He separated her, letting the
others run out of the open gate. They slipped through
and stood in the pound yard adjoining and Kilgour
stood in the open gateway.
{To be continued next week.)


Has ’FLU
weakened your
KIDNEYS?
MANY PEOPLE find that, after
an attack of 'Flu, they are left
with weak kidneys; their backs ache;
and their recovery to normal strength
is very slow.
This is because weakened Kidneys
are permitting impurities to accumu-
late in the blood streams, and what is
needed to correct this condition is a
course of Dr. Gin Pills.
Gin Pills act directly on the
Kidneys and assist them in quickly
eliminating all impurities from the
blood streams. Gin Pills are abso-
lutely safe for anyone to take—they
contain no harsh irritants or harmful
ingredients, and their constituents are
such that they cannot help but do
you good.
r:.-
m
osSttELDON’s
THE SHEtOON DBUGCO LTD
So with the
Kidneys functioning
normally again, good
health and strength
will return, and the
dangers of Kidney
Trouble will have
been averted.
BACKACHE
Sign of Kidney Trouble.
# “Having been a sufferer for a
long titrie with my kidneys and a
dull, constant backache, / was
advised by a friend, who had
derived great benefit, to try Dr .
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. I cannot
speak too highly of them; they
have completely cured me.”
Mrs. D. King,
Lennox Street,
Newtown, N.S.W
$ “1 am sending this testimonial
to let you know how wonderfully
your Gin Pills have benefited my-
self, wife and two grown-up
children. We have found them
excellent for Backache and Rheu-
matism, and have been free from
illness ever since We had Gin
Pills in our Medicine Chest."
Mr. G. Christie,
Gilbert Street,
Gilberton, S.A,
Sllld NO
mrpmyws
27 Pills 19
_
'.‘ S? -S.: t
60 Pills 219
’FLU & COLDS
ft
For quick results take 3 drops
of Double “It” Eucalyptus on
-ugar every few hours. Also inhale
15 drops of Double “D” in hot
water before retiring. This
treatment will smash ’Flu-Colds
overnight.
9d. —ENORMOUS SALES— 1 / 3
dsf
SPRAINS
Rub generously with
Double "D” —it Is the purest
strongest, and most pene-
trating Eucalyptus sold in
Australia, and will bring
immediate relief.
-y v
9d. —-ENORMOUS SALES—I/3
yth v 4< TI
MJp mjMj ■ JLr
Sxilact
BRONCHITIS
&
The inflammation of the
bronchial tubes is at once
relieved by inhaling 15 drops
of Double “D” in a jug
of hot water. The powerful
antiseptic vapors of
Double “D" are very sooth-
ing and healing.
SALES—I/3
MIS
feumlyfituifixtoact
BURNS
Owing to its strong anti-
septic properties. Double
“D” not only cleans, but
assists in the healing. It
should be applied with clean
cotton wool.
ds
—ENORMOUS SALES—I/3
Double “D”
Sxtlaet
ORE THROAT
&
Immediate relief can be bad by
gargling with a few drops of
Double "D” in a tumbler of
water. On account of its purity,
Double “D” makes a splendid
antiseptic gargle and mouthwasn.
AlstK rub neck thoroughly with
Double “D.”
SB aivOi a fliiliKTffji 1 him ff
])oi KI.K “I> ,
iueafyfibM
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fd
TO ‘THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that l do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription fate, in full payment.
NAME .......
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should ■send 30/-.)
0°
Q s>»
~ 6 e <<■>'
V\e
o'
#•
#*
s°
..-•" ..- 'y'H*
.-• VV&>
b
tr v*
*o
5> x //>>/
«?*S
¥
V s
»r
k<®' V«V* V?<*
t^V'Ss-vy
N.
Ss %
\0


it**:
*s
!N
/
&
iilllll
m
■
/
'y , 'yV&
*y :
3
r
home-
# ■sr*- w
:£S'co
« cent more lo 50 pe.
• c t 2K*- *•? ■-s?'
\™Z X out any extta cost
ent c °" SUrf '^°" e doced P" ces *°J.
{or the new re yOU cannot
tl,a " CO " J0 l
■ • . V
