

KO
■■■■■■■■■■■
IBRAffV
A
%
ĺ
‘/CINE-
KODAK
EIGHT
A new 1936 Kodak will mean more fun at Easter —
and better snapshots afterwards.
Kodaks from 28/6 ...... Brownies from 6/-
Write for catalogue.
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Aust.) PTY., LTD.
■179 George Street, Sydney; Kodak House, 252 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l;
250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; 87 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba ; East Street,
Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162 Queen Street, Auckland;
70 Princes Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo
Street, Christchurch.
Introduced four years ago, the Eight
principle cut the cost of home movie-
making. Now to-day the huge world-
demand again sensationally reduces
prices.
Model 20,
f/3.5 Lens ... £9/18/6
Economical in running costs —produces brilliant movies
you’ll be proud of. You cannot afford not to be making
movies at these new low prices. Call for demonstration
or write for booklet.
CINE-KODAK EIGHT IS
THE IDEAL WEDDING GIFT
NEW
Easter
24
The Bulletin
First Instalment of “The Bridle Track”
Vol. 57—No. 2926.
Wednesday, March 11, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S-W- Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
ļ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HEKE AND MAIL _ —.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 3SG
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
1 o recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted-
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.’
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors-must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
ROOSHUN
PLAYS
Just now there
is an epidemic of
Russian plays in
Australia, per-
formed in the
dull deadness of
; Sunday nigh
Presuming that the plays are bond .fi
Russian (for I suspect some are Ame
can), I doubt whether they ever we
allowed to be played in Russia exce
to children or long-bearded rustics.
To melt into the atmosphere of the
audiences, one must', if a woman, ha
sandals, lacquered toenails, no stockin
and no hat; if a man, an
shirt, a week’s beard and no socks. Anc
one may gossip or smoke during the pe
formance. As to the reactions of tl
audiences, Thackeray and Dickens dea
with the subject a century ago: hoo
when a bourgeois is down, cheer an
thing proletarian, is the formula.
In these circumstances I saw th
“latest four-act play from the Sovi
Union,” entitled “Life Is Calling,” th
author of which was not disclosed on th
programme. Almost certainly he wa
kicked out of Russia immediately, h
published it or was tied to a stake i
Red Square and shot at dawn one col
winter’s morning. If the play is author
ised by the Soviet (for overseas con
sumption in lofts and other places), the
it lets Australians peep into the Russia
mind to see which way Russia is head
ing—which is to perdition.
Reference is made in the play to
red flag flying over a church which, pre
sumably, has been converted into
theatre, for the theatre in Russia has dis
placed the church as a place for im
parting moral lessons and for regimenl
ing the Russian mind by means o
propaganda plays. “Life Is Calling” con
tains very full proofs of this, from point
ing the disadvantages of alcohol to dis
closing the Soviet plan of industrialising
Russia and increasing the agricultura
productivity of the country, even unto
altering the climate of Siberia by divert
ing the Japanese current overland and
(according to the map which is one ol
the props.) drowning China and letting
the Japanese Navy steam into the hear
of Siberia! Russia, which once had a
hundred astronomical observatories unti
someone pointed out that looking at the
universe from them was as valueless as
if they were all grouped together on a
pin’s head, is engineer-mad. It believes
that an ant may move a mountain if he
lives long enough and works hard ; so
diverting a warm ocean current over-
land appeals to the Russian imagination,
which is mystic, as exemplified in the
names, for example, of Lenin (Lion) and
Stalin (Steel), much as, to impress the
Stone Age hoi polloi of Abyssinia, Haile
Silassie is the “King of Kings” and the
“Lion of Judah.”
As for “human interest,” Nikitin and
Galina are man and wife, but not one
another’s private property, as the play
carefully points out. Kashirin is the
“Manager of a Chemical Trust,” which
industrialises” the play, although the
gentleman becomes Galina’s co-respon-
dent in the last act. Professor Chadov
.is Galina’s father, and he has just had
a cerebral stroke, and no wonder, for
his is the scheme for changing Siberia
to a land of smiling meadows by drown-
ing China. There is another professor
—Savich —who fits into the climatic
prestidigitation somehow. On the prin
ciple that dignity is the pose of incom
petence, both professors wear ziffs
glasses and learned physiognomies
Chadov has a second stroke while the
map is on the wall, and he dies with
the third one, doubtless brought on by
the news that his scheme has been
adopted by the “Technical Soviet”—for
performance, I presume, by American
engineers under sentence of death but
promised reprieve if they succeed.
Nikitin is the bad boy of the piece,
who drinks instead of studying, and,
after threatening suicide, walks out of
the menage, once with a revolver and
finally with a resolve to reform himself
and leave Galina with her co-respon-
dent. Galina is at least human enough
to commit adultery with Kashirin and,
in the last act, make an honest man of
him. In keeping with the traditions of
the Russian novel, there is an unlearned
discussion on the ethics of killing an in-
curable patient (Kashirin having killed a
disembowelled assistant commissar after
an engagement with a White army), but,
fortunately. Professor Chadov dies natur-
ally as the last curtain falls, and the audi-
ence is deprived of a murder scene.
The programme assured me—for
threepence, which was its price—that the
Soviet Union had set its seal on the
play. I also assured myself that if
Communism ever showed its head in
Australia it would be over my dead
body, plebeian that I am ; for I am
Western, and Russia is Eastern, little re-
moved from the Stone Age—and I know
the Stone Age mystics too well.
B. C.
Old Words —
New Meanings
In the “Austra-
lian Writ e r s’
Annual” there is
an article by
Vance Palmer en-
titled “New Ways
—New Words.” Apparently it is in-
tended as advice for young writers .
to-use the right words to express their
thoughts—a laudable object indeed.
Therefore I read it with close attention.
Alas! I feel more befoozled after than
before reading it.
For instance, Mr. Palmer writes: “It
was Patmore and Arthur Symons who
laid a spell upon my own boyhood with
their nostalgic style; it was A. G.
Stephens who helped to free me from it.”
Later on, after speaking of the necessity
for a writer to capture his readers’ atten-
tion, he says: “It is seduced without
much difficulty by a familiar manner, by
images of life known to it in other
books,” etc.
Now how in the name of Literature do
“nostalgic” and “reduce” fit' in? Of
course, a living language grows; but
deforming established words so that they
lose their familiar meaning is not growth.
Probably some lipsticked lady jour-
nalist, wanting a stronger word than
“interest,” by a happy inspiration of
ignorance hit on “intrigue,” and changed
a good English noun, with a definite
meaning, into a silly verb. I doubt if
any other word has suffered such a “sea-
sick” change so rapidly, for it is met with
in light paragraphs of professedly humor-
ous as well as in sombre leading articles
of the most solemn journals.
However, I think most harm is done >
when writers of established repute misuse
words, for the inexperienced will- take
them as authoritative and not trouble to
check them with a decent dictionary.
PLAIN AUSTRALIAN,
A Debunker
Tackles Nelson
Save in the
matter of his en-
tanglement with
Lady Hamilton,
forgivable to a
sea-dog with a
roving eye, the cold breath of disparage-
ment has spared Horatio, Lord Nelson,
Duke of Bronte, but in The Dear Emma
(Harrap; 10s. 6d.) E. B. D’Auvergne
hastens to repair the omission. His book,
as its title implies, is a biography of
Nelson’s lady-love, and it was to counter-
act the sentimental tosh written about
her by Sichel and other writers that
D’Auvergne hopped into the biographical
arena.'
It was hardly worth while. That Sir
William ■ Hamilton, Ambassador at
Naples, married the discarded mistress
of his nephew, the Hon. Charles
Greville ; that the lady in youth was beau-
tiful (see Romney’s pictures), and later
immensely fat (see the spiteful caricatures
of Rehberg and Gillray); and that she
held Nelson mainly by egregious flattery
—these things were already well estab-
lished. Even Mr. D’Auvergne cannot
deny Emma’s many excellent qualities—
loyalty to her friends among them.
'But he certainly casts a new light on
Nelson.
, Ndson was a great admiral, but it is
difficult to imagine any other walk in life
in which he would have succeeded. He
repeatedly jeopardised his own professional
prospects, not to say his loyalty, by some-
thing dangerously akin to insubordination
and by high-handed and tactless interfer-
ence with his equals and juniors. Some-
one said he was not a gentleman, which
is true if the much-abused word connotes
a magnanimous and sportsmanlike attitude
awards one s opponents. His vanity was
childlike.
Threatened with invasion, Ferdinando,
King of Naples, fled hi 3 kingdom
m Nelson s flagship, and took refuge at
Palermo. In his absence a republic was
declared. Nelson lingered at Palermo
dancing attendance on Lady Hamilton
when he should have been harrying the
French fleet. Ferdinando’s kingdom was
at last reconquered for him by his own
people, who granted an amnesty to the
rebels under which they were allowed
safe conduct to Toulon. Nelson hastened
to Naples in the Foudroyant, intent on
serving his cowardly royal friend,
arrested the rebels as they were on the
point of departure, brought them aboard
his ships and handed them over to Fer-
dinando’s hangmen. One, Admiral Car-
raciolo, was hanged from the yardarm
of the Foudroyant. On shore there were
three hundred executions.
As to Nelson’s marital affairs, he mar-
ried, without love, a widow, Mrs. Frances
Nisbet. “She caught him in a mood of
sour reaction from romance. For one
of his temperament it was an amazing
and idiotic marriage,” but still, “If any
woman could have claimed a share in
making Horatio Nelson what he became
it was not Emma Hamilton, but his plain
ordinary wife.” She left him in 1801,’
four years before Trafalgar, when it had
become obvious that he was hopelessly
in Emma Hamilton’s toils. “What chance
had she against a woman who had gradu-
ated as a courtesan?” Mr. D’Auvergne,
summing up the evidence that Lady
Hamilton bore a child to Nelson, con-
cludes it is incredible that she should have
been confined, under her husband’s roof,
without his knowledge, and most people
will agree with him. But the Admiral
firmly believed that he was a father
and that Emma was a mother, though
he had to pretend he was a “godfather.”
There is a postscript to one of his letters
to Emma just after the child’s alleged
birth, “I would steal white bread sooner
than my godchild should want,” of which
Mr. D’Auvergne says: “I like that post-
script better even than Nelson’s signal
at Trafalgar.” And on that commen-
datory note this condemnatory biography
may be left.
A. D. W.
The Author’s
Spot of Cheer
Writers driven
to contemplate
the Gap, or the
milkcart profes-
sion at least, by
Nettie Palmer’s
appalling spectre of the author’s “lot
austere” (R.P. 5/2/’36) might find some
spots of cheer in the sort of book-sale
figures George H. Doran scatters prodi-
gally through his reminiscences of 50
years of American publishing, Chronicles
of Barabbas (Methuen; Angus and
Robertson; 225. 6d.). There are one or
two flies in the pleasant ointment. Nearly
all the writers Mr. Doran mentions were
prodigious workers., capable of produc-
ing more in a year than any of Mrs.
Palmer’s authors could manage in a life-
time ; and all of them took that road
which Gerald Dillon (R.P. 19/2/’36
sensibly indicated as the highway to
literary financial success and the primary
business of authorship—their work enter
tained.
The most staggering statement in the
book is that in 1928 one out of every
four books printed and sold in England
exclusive of Bibles, school textbooks
and medical textbooks, was an Edgar
Wallace. That year four Wallace plays
were running to crowded houses in Lon-
don alone. Many travelling companies
were playing him. He was the most
popularly read author in the United
States, and from many other parts of
the world money poured in to make his
income enormous. When he died in 1932
his estate showed a deficit of approxi-
mately £lOO,OOO, all of which was paid
off by his widow, though she killed her-
self doing it. Horses accounted for some
of the deficit; but Wallace was lavish
and generous as a caliph. “No needy
person or institution ever appealed to him
in vain.’' His London headquarters was
a half-floor-large apartment at the Carl-
ton ; he kept a large house in fashion-
able Portland Place and a country
estate, Chalklands, with racing-stable
attached. Each member of his family had
a grand car, and on his visit to America
he travelled de luxe as a party of nine.
How he made money is well indi-
cated in that American trip. Of his time
there he spent 96 hours in Chicago, of
which he slept six. Then he wrote the
“On the Spot,” which paid for the
whole American jaunt a hundred times
over, though an emperor might have been
ruined by the cost.
According to the publisher, the popu-
lar idea that Wallace employed “ghosts”
to do his writing is a pure libel on the
busiest man Mr. Doran ever knew.
Wallace offered £lOOO to anyone who
could prove that any word of his was
not of his own creation and writing, but
there were no takers. He was simply a
super-worker, even for the hardest-
working of all professions. He spoke his
plays and novels into dictaphones— two
of them; one at each end of his desk.
In front of him, across the desk, sat his
secretary, to whom, in between bursts of
inspiration, he dictated his letters and his
journalism, including editorials for a
country paper he owned.
Arnold Bennett’s income was always
either a little under or a little over
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Always.
“The Senior Store”
ľ
While I Live I’ll Grow”
Anthony Horderns’
Our builders’ hardware section specially caters for the wants of the modern
builder. We stock everything in the line of improved and up-to-date tools
and materials, the quality and workmanship of which are the best in their
respective classes. This is a page of specially keen values; study it, and
remember every transaction carries our assurance of satisfaction, complete and
absolute.
FOR
BUILDERS’
MATERIALS
RISISTOID ROOFING
“Risistoid” Reliable Roofing, made
expressly for Anthony Horderns’. In
rolls 72ft. long, 36in. wide.
Available in 1 -ply 2-ply 3-ply
Prices, per roll . . 31/- 38/- 45/3
Prices, per yard .. 1/5 1/9 2/1
BUILDING PAPER
Double Kraft Building Paper, a
quality reliable for long service. In
rolls 36 inches wide, 300 feet long.
At Anthony Horderns’, roll, 30/-.
Price per 100 square feet .... 3/-
BLACK COATING PAINT
A lasting and efficient Black Coating
Paint for preserving “Risistoid” roofs.
At Anthony Horderns’, per gal., 6/6.
BLACK CEMENT PAINT
This Black Cement Paint is invaluable
when sticking down “Risistoid” roofing.
At Anthony Horderns’, gallon .... 6/6
GALVANISED MAIL BOXES 11/-
Galvanised Mail Boxes in style for building in brick piers. Fitted with brass
fronts and clips for padlock. Size 9 inches. At Anthony Horderns’, ea., 11/-.
Also available in Min. size. Price, each 11/-
FLAT FRONTS FOR LETTERS 5/-
Hard-wearing quality Galvanised Cast Iron Flat Fronts for Letters.
At Anthony Horderns’, each . . . 5/-
CHIMNEY POTS 4/6
Strong Terra Cotta Chimney Pots. At Anthony Horderns’, each 4/6
HOODED CHIMNEY POTS 7/6
Terra Cotta Hooded Chimney Pots. A quality recommended for hard service.
At Anthony Horderns’, each 7/6
ŀ
INSIDE VENTILATORS
Inside Plaster Ventilators
in Waratah pattern,
and with square holes.
Price, each 7d.
At Anthony Horderns’,
dozen 6/-
6
MOSQUITO-PROOF
VENTILATORS
Inside strong Plaster Ventilators in
Waratah pattern. These are
n o a
thoroughly mosquito-proof. Size 9x6 inches. Price, each 1 Od.
At Anthony Horderns’, dozen 9/6
CAST IRON INDUCT COWLS 6'-
Reliable Galvanised Cast Iron Mica Flap Induct Cowls. Size 4 inches.
At Anthony Horderns’, each 6/-
Also available in Galvanised Sheet Iron. Size, 4in. x 24in. gauge.
At Anthony Horderns’, each 3/9
WALL TIES - - - - 19/- per 1000
Long-service Galvanised Wire Wall Ties. 8 gauge. Price, per 100 . . 3/~
Price, per 1000 .... 29/-. Also available in 10 gauge. Price, per 100, 2/-.
At Anthony Horderns’, per 1000 . . . 19/-
GALVANISED IRON CISTERNS 35/6
Strongly-constructed Cisterns, ideal for country use.
Finished in high-grade quality galvanised iron. 20-gallon
size. At Anthony Horderns 9 35 6
Smaller 10-gallon capacity cisterns of same reliable make.
Price, each 31/6
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.,
’Phone: M2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712C, G.P.O.
WATERPROOF FABRIC 37'6
“Sarkoid” Waterproof Fabric for under tile or iron roofs. A
reliable fabric, thoroughly waterproof, to ensure your roof
against leakage. In rolls, 36in. wide, each containing 250
square feet. At Anthony Horderns*, roll 37/6
m
wmm
mmm
msM
BRICKS
Terra Cotta Air Bricks
Terra Cotta Square Hole Air Bricks, 9x6 inches. Price, ea., 8d.
At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 7/6
Also size 9x3 inches. Price, each 7-|'d.
At Anthony Horderns’, dozen 7/-
Terra Cotta Louvre Air Bricks
Terra Cotta Louvre Air Bricks. 9x6 inches. Price, each . . 9Jd.
At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 9/*
Also size 9x3 inches. Price, each 8-|d.
At Anthony Horderns’, dozen 8/-
Glazed Square Hole Air Bricks
Glazed Square Hole Air Bricks. Size 9x6 inches. Price, ea., 9d.
At Anthony Horderns’, dozen S/6
Size 9x3 inches. Price, each 8^d.
At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 8/-
Glazed Louvre Air Bricks
Glazed Louvre Air Bricks. Size 9x6 inches. Price, each, 10-Jd.
At Anthony Horderns’, dozen . 10/-
Size 9x3 inches. Price, each 9|-d.
At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 9/-
Terra Cotta Hooded Air Bricks
Terra Cotta Hooded Air Bricks. 9x6 inches. Price, each, I / I 0.
At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 21/-
Glazed Hooded Air Bricks
Glazed Hooded Air Bricks. Size 9x6 inches. Price, each, 2/1.
At Anthony Horderns’, dozen 24/-
Cast Iron Air Bricks
Galvanised Cast Iron Fancy Air Bricks. Size 9x3 inches.
Price, each, 1/-. At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 11/3
Size 9x6 inches. Price, each 1/7
At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 18/6
Galvanised Stamped Fancy Air Bricks. Size 9x6 inches.
Price, each, 1/-. At Anthony Horderns’, per dozen 11/*
9 Builders’ Materials —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free
delivery City and Suburbs only. »
/,
6


BUSH BALLADRY
COMPETITION.
Prizes totalling £2s—£ls, first;
£7, second; £3, third—are offered
for the best ringing bush ballads to
reach “The Bulletin” by April 30.
Entries should be marked "Bush
Balladry Competition.” The word
“ballad” is not used in any narrow
or technical sense; the verse may
be in whatever form and metre the
competitor prefers. Each entry
should be of less than 80 lines,
though longer entries would not be
disqualified. In addition to the
prize-money, space rates will be
paid for every entry published.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
NDTAKERS
“Landtakers” grips the imagination from the very first page. or mood is being portrayed. In fierce or violent action and
Its literary quality is maintained throughout—beautiful in gentle passages the language is always appropriate and
prose is characteristic of the book, no matter what scene never ceases to reflect true literary craftsmanship.
The London “Daily Mail” selected Landtakers as the best book of the month in England. In a three-column review it said that
the author had chosen a mighty theme —Australia striving to find herself —and that his pen was equal to his vast opportunities. His
gifts make memorable this vivid and stunning story. Landtakers is a worthy picture of a vast savage area which has been the
setting in which Australia’s sons could find her , soul. Its vast conception is like a pageant of crude colors, turbulent, and sometimes
violently vigorous.
g§ Brian Penton, one of Australia’s best-known feature-writers and a journalist of international repute, has written something
entirely new in Australian literature —something different. In Landtakers the author achieves what others have attempted
but never attained: —the tracing up from its roots of that hitherto elusive thing, the Australian national character. This great
Australian novel has met with remarkable success in Australia and has reached the third edition.
Landtakers, by Brian Penton. A novel of 500 pages, on sale at all Newsagents and Booksellers. Price 7/6 (postage 6d. extra), or direct from the Publishers:
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS :: :: :: :: :: 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
£20,000. In his real work of fiction-
writing—a mere fraction of his daily out-
put—he limited himself to 1000 words a
day of finally corrected manuscript. The
Old Wives’ Tale, containing 210,000
words, took him seven months to write..
His practice was to wake about six
o’clock, light his spirit-lamp, brew him-
self a pot of tea (Wallace’s stimulant,
also), and proceed with his day’s stint.
‘At nine o’clock he would emerge from
lis study fresh and immaculate, but with
his real day’s work behind him.” The
number of words he wrote in a year
seemed appalling even to a publisher
used to such efforts of the hag-driven
people who are authors.
The whole picture of Bennett makes
the best chapter in Mr. Doran’s book,
and the best brief account of Bennett
that has been written. He gives Bennett
credit for the great sales of The Bridge
of San Luis Rey, even in America, where,
after Bennett had lauded it, “it had a
sale of at least 350,000 copies; probably
300,000 of its purchasers are still won-
dering, if they even recall the book, just
what it was all about.” In Mr. Doran’s
opinion the real Bennett is not to be
found in The Truth About an Author,
in which, as in the “somewhat
expurgated” Journals, he really hid him-
self ; but “in his book The Card, either
consciously or blandly unconsciously, he
portrays his real self.”
Apart from Wallace’s incredible one-
in-four, the strangest sales figures the
publisher records are those of Gerard’s
My Four Years in Germany. As a serial
in the “Public Ledger,” the work caused
the “Ledger’s” circulation to jump by
300,000 copies daily. In book form the
first edition of the huge total of 50,000
had to be delayed a week while a further
edition of 25,000 was printed to meet the
advance demand. Then occurred what
never before had happened to any book
within the publisher’s knowledge-
queues waited to get into the bookshops
and buy it on the morning of publica-
tion. In a week 90,000 copies were sold.
To ginger it up a bit, a page advertise-
ment was inserted in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post',” and sales jumped to 200,000.
Altogether sales totalled 500,000 for what
the publisher describes as “a fair book,
a plain, unvarnished statement” and
“one of the greatest pieces of propa-
ganda ever put out.”
More curious was the American record
of The Young Visiters. Up to
200,000 it sold as if it would go on sell-
ing for ever. Then utterly and abruptly
the demand ceased, leaving the publisher
with an additional 50,000 on hand to get
rid of as best he could. He had to dis-
pose of them through the ten-cent stores,
the final resort in such failure. Another
curious flop was that of Margot Asquith.
On the strength of the sale of 30,000 of
the first volume of her reminiscences, the
courageous Margot was induced to visit
America. Through no real fault either of
herself or her audience her first meeting
was not a success, and afterwards she
was openly critical of things American.
Result: total sale of vol. 11, 2000 copies.
Another job for the ten-cent stores, prob-
ably ; but the stores did not get the
750,000 copies of propaganda books and
publications on hand at the end of the
war out of Mr. Doran’s vast propaganda
publishing for the British Government.
Mr. Doran sensibly pulped the lot.
Award for “the shrewdest and most
penetrating stunt in the whole realm of
publishing” Mr. Doran gives to T. E.
Lawrence, of whose Seven Pillars of
Wisdom the publisher says: “Frankly, I
never could understand the stampede for
it. Interesting and somewhat spectacu-
lar, yes, but great or permanent,
decidedly no.” In America the great
stunt of “the apostle of self-abnegating
publicity” was an edition of 10 copies
offered for sale at 10,000 dollars the
copy. “Never was better publishing pub-
licity conceived. Not a copy was sold,
but they were all exhibited in leading
bookstores throughout the country, and
the public flocked to purchase the slightly
abridged 10,000-dollar book for three
dollars.” The effect of that stunt has
lately been seen working in Australia,
where Seven Pillars; though £2 ss. a
copy, has sold in many thousands, and
booksellers could not get nearly enough
of the £7 10s. edition to satisfy their
clients.
On nearly all the writers he has
known Mr. Doran’s remarks are of the
kindest. Exceptions are Dr. Axel
Munthe, of San Michele— -“As he talked
of money, his asceticism and lassitude
disappeared” ; John Drinkwater—“A less
poetic or soulful man one would go far
to find. He is ponderously, not to say
pontifically, cordial” ; Frank Harris—
“ Had I met him on some fair-grounds
back of a three-card-monte table, I
would have thought of him as being
exactly in character.” Michael Arlen
gets off with Irving Cobb’s comment on
him: “I like Mike—he is the only
Armenian I have met who has not tried
to sell me a rug.”
R. P.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Life with Father Clarence Day
Hester and Her Family H. W. Freeman
Harvest of Victory E. Wingfield-Stratford
IN some moments the vociferous domes-
tic tyrant whose egotistical roaring
makes joyous the pages of Clarence Day’s
Life with Father (Chatto and Windus ;
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.) is reminis-
cent of the character of Dad Rudd in
the first On Our Selections days, before
Dad’s honest-sweaty trousers and shire
became a motley and their wearer a
figure of farce. The resemblance is no
more than of one household egotist to
another, made to appear closer by both
authors adopting the same role of sons
depicting fathers and having regard
chiefly for the comedy of their heroes’
foibles and idiosyncrasies. Hence there
is none of the viciousness a neurotic
author-offspring would certainly have
seen and plaintively analysed in the
tyranny of Father, the well-to-do New
York family Hitler, as there was none
in Dad, selection Mussolini. Apart from
this rather general resemblance, and per-
haps the more personal resemblance of
full-blooded sulphurous vocabularies,
there are notable differences, not only in
character and setting, but in the writers’
methods. Father, in addition to being a
New York stockbroker, is chiefly unlike
Dad in being a far less futile egotist. In
a sense, the Day family tolerate Father’s
ways and outbursts as the Rudds
tolerated Dad’s ; but, to the children at
any rate, Father is Jehovah, at once awe-
inspiring but essentially Right, and —very
importantly—much closer at hand. Dad
Rudd was never a god. The Rudd
family always had some degree of com-
pensating amusement out of Dad such as
the Day family never dared—or desired —■
to have out of Father. Thus, even when
a horse treads on Father’s toe, and
Father calls down a malediction of fire
and brimstone, the young Days are
almost as impressed as Father himself is
by the enormity of the affront to his dig-
nity. Reader and family together might
roar at Dad’s inglorious misfortunes, but
the reader laughs alone at the things that
happen to Father. Dad only rarely
attained to dignity, and then always in
pathetic circumstances: Father is still
dignified even when he is sacking a cook.
It is the dignity—not, as with Dad, the
pity—of it that makes Father’s wrath
irresistibly funny, as when, the doctor
having convinced him that he is really
ill, the thoughts of Father, alone in his
room, “now that he knew he was in
trouble,” had apparently “turned to
God.” “Have mercy!” they heard him
shouting indignantly. “I say have mercy,
damn it!” Day lacks that zesty gusto
and enthusiasm with which Steele Rudd
flung himself into his earlier work, but,
on the other hand, he is not to be
tempted into the gaucheries that Steele
Rudd was rarely long able to keep out
of. There is comparative refinement to
Day’s credit, not merely in that his set-
ting is the utter opposite of the bucolic.
This has its effects, of course ; refinement
is natural to a home where Father invari-
ably dresses for dinner, and is vehement
about the correct warmth or coldness of
the wine ; just as a good deal of Steele
Rudd’s supposed uncouthness is even less
than just to its setting. But Day, in his
writing itself, is comparatively restrained
and polished ; the thought of committing
a pun or any other literary vulgarity
would make his hair curl. He never
forces effects. When he makes the reader
laugh outright, which does happen now
and then, it seems to be by mistake: his
humor’s quality is of the smiling sort'.
Simply, he just goes on quietly remem-
bering home life in the Day family, a
rather English New York of the ’nine-
ties, with Father dominating it all, and
that life comes steadily out of the past
as a living reality with a wide smile on
its face.
Not so essentially amusing, but with
much the same sort of quiet humor
among its ingredients, H. W. Freeman’s
new novel, Hester and Her Family
(Chatto and Windus; Bs. 6d.), is fiction
on a far wider and larger scale. With
the qualification that' he does it humanly,
Freeman makes a good deal of use of
the D. H. Lawrence formula for fetch-
ing sex forth from any secret preserve
that may be left to it and reducing re-
lationship between men and women to
a barnyard level. Hester and her daugh-
ters , both by heredity and by indi-
vidual choice, think no more of the act
than a hen. As a result the first half or
more of the novel has the fault of giv-
ing the impression that the author is ob-
sessed with this aspect of his characters’
lives—a fault of disproportion only, for,
even when it is reading like merely a sex
parade, there is no question of the sin-
cerity and sustained beauty of the writ-
ing. The novel is richest of all in charac-
ter, in which it is really extraordinarily
fine. Depicting the life of Hester (first
a slavey, then married in haste, then liv-
ing in sin, finally the inn hostess, with,
to her, very exciting adventures along
the way), and also the lives of her men
and her daughters (one of whom be-
comes astonishingly a B.A. and has her
adventures in Italy), it sweeps over about
the past 30 to 40 years, with the setting
mainly in Suffolk.
E. Wingfield-Stratford’s The Harvest
of Victory: 1918-1926 (Routledge;
12s. 6d. net) is an attempt —on the whole
successful —to fix the European scene ot
the title period in correct historical per-
spective. Curiously the author, who
deprecates the modern pseudo-historian’s
penchant for debunking and otherwise
reducing the stature of great men of the
past, heartily debunks the English and
French statesmen of his own period.
Perhaps that’s how he thinks the detached
future historian would also have to feel
about them. However, his is not merely
spectacular debunking. He does not try
for such effects, but writes clearly,
vigorously, sanely, recording a vivid
piece of modern history in swift and
bright' narrative.
Workaday Lady: Maysie Greig
(Hodder and Stoughton; 7s. 6d.). On
the dust jacket the author writes an essay
on “Why I Write Love Stories”:
Because I am more interested in love
than anything else. Love makes everyone
Human; almost everyone in the world
akin. I write Happy love stories because
I believe that happiness is the greatest
virtue in the world and misery the greatest
sin.
The dish, served in a commercial photo-
grapher’s business, with the secretary in
love with the head and the head in love
with a model, is faithfully true to that
recipe, with enough treacle to bog a
giraffe.
The Milk Churn Murder: Miles
Burton (Crime Club ; 7s. 6d). A diaboli-
cal murder, obviously long premeditated,
confronts Inspector Arnold, of the Yard.
Introduction of Arnold’s friend Merrion,
brilliant amateur in crime detection, sup-
plies counterplay of theory and some ex-
cellent deduction. It’s well told, and
action never lets up.
The Last Plague of Egypt: Baron
Harry d’Erlanger (Lovat Dickson;
Angus and Robertson ; 165.). This visi-
tation is heroin —in the Baron’s account,
affecting about one in every four adult
males. If these figures and other details
are right, a great opportunity has been
missed to make the book the shocker of
the century. The chap who did the dust-
jacket had the idea all right—a really
thrilling effort. Alas, the Baron lets him
down! Still, in the prosaic record there’s
material enough to make mere metho.
addicts feel like demigods, and to show
that the League of Nations (dope depart-
ment) has another tough nut to crack in
Africa.


/
T-^7
ZL
i
'l4
/ a / '/
f
4
-//
//O
She said to me : The favourite got home in a canter .. /
I said to her : Tve got the favourite at home in a DEcanter •. /
Tired after a day on the course, it’s good to relax over a glass
of Johnnie Walker. In this rare old whisky there’s a kindly
comfort which comes from its age and long keeping. As
soon as you lift the glass to your lips, the bouquet makes its
fragrance known. And when you taste this traditional spirit
of the Highlands, you realise that you are drinking
whisky of unusual merit.
Johnnie
By Appointment to
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LIMITED,
Walker
His Majesty the King
LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
go\^


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■;
wmm
.
1 1
■■
Ml
WimmM
■H H
: :
H
HI
H
&
m
k ‘v
*j
ei &
m
■Si
—MWPPMB I HSMlin '*i
■
: a
mmm
m
m i
a
.
ll
i
LJ
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.
une


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.-—No. 2926,
March 11, 1936.
ONLY ONE ELEMENT TRIED.
“Anodder alliance mit Russia, hein? Relying on der old shteam-roller again, is it nod so?”
“But, m’sieur, next time de steam-roller ’e might fly!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.'
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William,Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
“WACHT AM RHEIN” AGAIN.
Before the ink had dried on the Treaty of Versailles
the Germans were enrolling so-called Civic Guards,
Emergency Volunteers and Public Safety Police
(within six months they were 550,000 strong) in spite
of clauses forbidding them to establish military asso-
ciations of civilians or reservists. As time went on,
much as the Prussians did to circumvent Napoleon,
they evaded parts of the Treaty designed to limit the
strength of their army to 100,000 men, particularly
provisions specifying that non-commissioned officers
and men must serve for “twelve consecutive years,”
and must not be discharged “for any reason” before
the end of the twelve years to an extent greater than
“five per cent, of total effectives.”
These measures, and others associated with them,
were applied without open defiance of the Treaty, and
with no special enthusiasm on the part of some of
the civilian rulers, who were overawed by the army.
With the advent of the Nazis, they were accelerated
and extended. At length Hitler felt himself strong
enough to throw off the mask ; and Europe awoke
one morning to find that Germany had another con-
script army (the Treaty said “Universal compulsory
service is abolished”) and clouds of aircraft (“no naval
or military air force is permitted”). Now, with Britain
and France engaged in disciplining their ally of 1915-
19, it has sent troops into a demilitarised part of the
Rhineland.
This step is an infraction not only of the
Versailles instrument, but also of the Treaty of
Locarno. It was preceded by the delivery of a memo-
randum to the British, French, Italian and Belgian
Ambassadors in which the Treaty of Locarno was
denounced and a demand was made for “equal rights
in this world,” “equal rights” including “a demili-
tarised zone for Germany as well as for France.”
Australians and Maorilanders can never justify
breaches of treaties which precipitate a situation in
which war may come again ; but it must be confessed
that the enemies of the Germans have presented them
with a case. Only the British Commonwealth of
Nations has tried to live up to Article VIII. of the
Covenant tacked on to the Treaty of Versailles (“The
members of the League recognise that the mainten-
ance of peace requires the reduction of national arma-
ments to the lowest point consistent with national
safety and.... international obligations”); and in
the vain pursuit of disarmament its influence has
suffered as well as its strength. The Germans may
fairly claim that, with the British Commonwealth
voluntarily weakening itself, and France and Russia
arming mightily, they had to go in for self-protection.
They may claim as fairly that the new Franco-Russian
alliance, called a “pact,” .is a deadly threat to them,
and that they offered France a non-aggression “pact”
instead.
Their action has, of course, been influenced
by the example of Italy and by the pitiful failure of
the “sanctions” imposed on that country by other
parties to Locarno ; but hatred and dread of the new
Red Russia influenced it far more. From the first
the mass of the German people rejected Bolshevism
•—“Oriental socialism,” as they called it as far back
as 1919 —but a Bolshevik revolution was an ever-
present danger until the Nazis came along with a
revolution of their own. Their revolution has had
features repugnant to English-speaking people, but
at least it was accomplished without a frightful civil
war and wholesale robbery and murder, and it may
conceivably have saved neighboring countries from
similar horrors.
In his speech to the Reichstag the Leader said
that his Government was ready to enter into air pacts
with “the Western Powers”; a non-aggression pact with
France and Belgium (this to last for 25 years and to
be guaranteed by Britain and Italy), and other non-
aggression pacts with “the countries along our eastern
frontier.” It was also willing to re-enter the League.
Herr Hitler may be “fair and false,” but he should
at least be given a chance to make his words good.
The French talk of demanding an extension of
sanctions. This is dangerous nonsense. Just as we
of the British Commonwealth of Nations must not
make war on Italy because the Italians are settling old
scores with a bad neighbor, a set of slave-owners, so
we must not make war on Germany because the Ger-
mans are garrisoning their own country notwithstand-
ing a prohibition which never should have been
made eternal. League or no League, Treaty of Ver-
sailles or no Treaty of Versailles, it is our plain duty
to mind our own business unless our vital interests
are affected, and this has happened in neither case.
STALIN’S WAR TALK.
When M. Stalin condescends to unburden his mind
of its great thoughts, as in his talk on war prospects
last week, the statement is usually so childlike and
naive that a sophisticated world can only stand and
gape. There was scarcely a sentence in the Russian
dictator’s talk that was not demonstrably nonsense,
but its real purpose was none the less mischievous
on that account.
In mere foolishness the statement included such
twaddle as: “Nowadays wars are not declared;
they simply start.” That, though the only war that
happens to be on at the moment is probably without
precedent for the length and definiteness of the
advance notice that ushered it in.
Still merely foolish, but working up to his pur-
pose, M. Stalin declared that “No people to-day wants
war.” His logical mind nevertheless perceives “two
focal points of danger.” He had no compunction
about naming them—Japan in Asia, Germany in
Europe—nor had he the French delicacy about
declaring the Franco-Soviet pact to be a defensive
measure against one of those “danger points.” Thus his
thesis is that, though no people wants war, Germany
and Japan do. Logic is hardly M. Stalin’s strength.
It is hardly the strength of the Soviet’s admirers,
either, who see cause for nothing but admiration in
the Soviet’s staggering military preparations—
-1,300,000 men under arms, another 3,500,000 trained
reservists and 3000 aeroplanes—but who condemn as
maliciously warlike any small increase of Defence
expenditure in Australia. It is matter for congratula-
tion, apparently, that the Soviet has constructed its
tremendous war machine. We must admire the
achievement. The similar efforts of Japan and Ger-
many, however they may logically appear to be
inspired by the Soviet’s example—these we must view
with shuddering distaste.
Coming still further to his purpose, M. Stalin
indulged a little in the popular Soviet pastime of
bogey-baiting. “It is symptomatic,” he said, “that
even when Herr Hitler speaks of peace he cannot
dispense with threats.” Also, he had in mind “numer-
ous statements by Japanese military men, containing
a threat against other Powers.” In answer to Herr
Hitler he conjured up the Franco-Soviet pact; as
for the other danger point, he foreshadowed direful
things that would happen to Japan if Japan ventures
to attack —proving, at least, that an inability to
“dispense with threats” when talking of peace is
no special privilege of Herr Hitler.
That sort of sabre-rattling, in fact, is common,
not only to M. Stalin, but to his foremost satellites
as well. For truculence, bragging and bombast in
this respect, the Soviet leaders outstrip all others. The
recent boast of the official newspaper “Pravda” that
“the Soviet is ready to fight both Japan and Germany
single-handed” is not merely childlike bragging.
Childlike it certainly is, but just as certainly is it
thoroughly believed in—by Communists; nobody
else would risk a bad half-crown on its ability
to beat either of those countries. But the belief is
fixed Soviet doctrine, enunciated at frequent intervals
by the leading whippers-up of nationalist sentiment.
Along witn it goes propaganda aimed at putting
the blame for the threatening Asian war on Japan.
Thus Molotov (1933): “Soviet Russia would
destroy Japan completely in the event of war”; Lit-
vinoff (1933): “Japan is feverishly preparing for an
offensive war”; Kagonovitch (1934): “We may
expect an attack at any moment”; Blucher (1934):
“Japan is preparing feverishly for a war of aggression.”
This campaign of anti-Japanese propaganda has
been pursued for years. It is deliberately provocative,
and therefore highly dangerous, but it is calculated
Soviet policy, and it apparently has the approval of
all good Soviet admirers. It is significant that the
bigger the Soviet’s war preparations grow and the
stronger the Soviet’s relationships with France and
Britain become, the more arrogant these attempts to
provoke Japan—and blame that country in advance.
That, in a word, is the real purpose of M. Stalin’s
confidential chat. Japan is the only country able
and prepared to block the spread of the Soviet system
over Asia, as Germany has proved a solid bulwark
against its spread over Europe. Eastward is the easier
direction, and the one the Soviet means to use. Japan,
obviously, is the obstacle to that intention ; and Japan
will be an easier nut to crack if propaganda can induce
the world to regard it as an unprovoked aggressor.
Meanwhile the Soviet’s vast arming is wholly
pacific ; the Soviet’s intentions are pure. It is the
other fellow who is nasty. It always is. There isn’t
a more hackneyed masquerade known to the world.
CURTAILING CREDIT.
During the week in which the Commonwealth
Bank Boar I gave notice of its intention to go
into the open market with three months’ Treasury
bills at If p.c., trading banks had considered
the economic position. A programme of curtailing
credit confronted them. It did not necessarily mean
increase of interest rates: that question was discussed
but was left undecided. When the Commonwealth
Bank Board announced its new policy, the Bank of
N. S. Wales took the initiative and put up its three
months’ deposit rate to 2 p.c., with an all-round lift
of 10s. p.c. for other terms.
Last financial year Australia’s surplus exports
were not enough to meet overseas interest. This year
there is certain to be another call on London reserves,
perhaps for eight millions sterling: in sterling values
the commodity balance of exports over imports for
seven months of 1935-36 was only £5,254,000. Trans-
fers of funds by Australian branches to head offices
have made the position still more difficult.
Internally, the banks are also having trouble in
supplying demands for credit. Since December, 1932,
average advances have moved by about £27,000,000
Australian; fixed deposits (representing, with the
banks’ own funds, the safest basis for lending) have
actually dropped £8,000,000. Deposits at current
account have increased £23,000,000. The obvious
thing about these balances is that, if their owners did
not contemplate putting them to further use in the
near future, much of this floating money would have
been placed where it would earn something.
The ratio between fixed deposits and advances
having widened almost to December, 1929, propor-
tions —advances are less than 4 p.c. below the figure
of that boom year, which is the more impressive when
lower commodity and land prices are considered-
some change in lending policy was to be expected.
There have been several competing factors at
work. Recovery in private industries and investment
has withdrawn support from Consolidated loans. When
Governments have sought increasing sums from the
public in order to finance deficits and “works” pro-
grammes, they have pushed the interest rate up. Bank-
deposit rates, the lowest on record, were not high enough
to attract funds in competition with the higher yield
on Consols and prevailing Stock Exchange buoyancy.
Customs revenue appears to have influenced
tariff policy. In January, despite an increase in
exports, heavy imports gave an adverse commodity
balance of £277,000 for the month. Little wonder
that the banks are contemplating the curtailment of
advances likely to encourage imports.
Some features of the present financial scene are
out of balance. The wool cheque will be good, and
on medium-grade areas wheatgrowing has become
payable. Wages and commodity prices have by no
means run up to inflated figures. But unbalanced
Budgets have influenced the cost of money, among
other things, and sharemarket speculation has been
an expanding blister also. Customs Minister White
said 12 months ago that the external trade position
would “right itself.” This it has not done.
In the immediate future there will be less bank
credit for the construction trades, importers and the
sharemarket. The probable effect of this influence
is hard to gauge at present. If it curbs speculation
it will do good—here and there flat-building is almost
back to boom-time levels, and unnecessary cinema
theatres are starting up again. Healthy private indus-
tries, however, should continue to progress if Govern-
ments let them. Public finance is still having a big,
and far from beneficial, influence on conditions.
Private enterprise has been the backbone of recovery.
NO REDUCTION OF TAXES.
A deputation of businessmen from 39 organisations
asked the Prime Minister in Melbourne for 1 p.c.
p.a. off the sales tax (5 p.c.); for a 20 p.c. cut
in income tax (it goes up to 7s. 6d. in the £ on what
the States have left after taking perhaps ss. or 6s. in
the £); for abolition of the 6 p.c. special tax on
property income and of land tax, and for a progres-
sive reduction of primage.
Their case was devastating. A. W. Relph, presi-
dent of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce,
pointed out that £6,000,000 of surpluses secured during
three depression years had been placed in a trust
account to meet unmentioned and perhaps unthought-
of “commitments,” as they are called. Of pre-depres-
sion “commitments” the Government had been
relieved by the Hoover moratorium (virtually made
a permanency by Father Bull), and by the loan con-
versions—to the extent of £6,900,000 of war-debt
interest, and exchange, and £2,341,000 p.a. of interest on
other loans. It was nevertheless taxing and spending
far more than in pre-depression years, and applying
the screw to a comparative few. For the number of
resident taxpayers had fallen from 322,802 in 1930-31
to 221,866 in 1933-34—this though the exemption had
been lowered—and the number of companies paying
tax from 8636 to 6449.
These figures prove that excessive taxation is
strangling industry.
Whereas in 1928-29 the Commonwealth and
States got along with a tax-revenue of £88,829,000
taken out of production valued at £447,805,000, last
year they took £95,189,000 out of production valued
at £389,000,000. During the five years to the end of
1935, Commonwealth and States extracted 26.8 p.c. of
production income, compared with 19.6 p.c. in the
previous five years. Sales tax was originally imposed
“to offset the loss of customs and excise revenue
because of dwindling imports” ; actually, for seven
months of 1935-36 customs and excise yielded
£6,885,600 more than in the corresponding seven
months of 1931-32. And it was evident that total tax-
revenue would largely exceed the estimate, £58,750,000,
though that would be the largest amount ever collected
by a Commonwealth Government.
The Prime Minister replied that the Government
was beset with “difficulties,” but would give the
fullest consideration to everything you have said
when we know where we are.” Mr. Casey, who was
with him, heartily agreed with the deputation, but
protested that it had “not given me much of a lead
as to how to reduce taxation” —a job which Mr. Case\
is paid by the country to do. Dr. Page was not present.
A pity, for during the election campaign he told the
country that taxation was “one of the greatest factors
in keeping interest rates and cost of production
high” ; also, that “recovery cannot take place until
a greater proportion of the receipts from industry are
left in the hands of private enterprise, which is the
great employer.” .
On that occasion Dr. Page proposed the aboliti
of land tax, primage and the special tax on proper
income. Mr. Lyons had previously declared that he was
working to “abolish the land tax,” and described ,
special tax on property income as “savage and stupia.
He now prefers, and Dr. Page with him, to take m
from the taxpayers (who are also wage-payers) tn
he knows what to do with (millions are han( ? e .“
extravagant State Governments for uncondition
expenditure, and portion has been used to g tve P ,
ticians their boom-time pay again); and when
for relief, to which the victims are fairly entitled,
fob them off with words that mean nothing.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Masters at Geneva.
Australia, which has so many local masters, has
acquired a lot more at Geneva. Some of them belong
to the Committee of Eighteen, others to the Com-
mittee of Thirteen.
To the Committee of Eighteen Mr. Anthony
Eden said last week that he thought it “fair to the
Committee that I should make it plain what is the
view of his Majesty’s Government on the report of
the experts on the oil embargo”: —•
His Majesty’s Government is prepared to accept any
decision arrived at by the Committee, but must make it
clear that, having considered the findings of the experts,
it favors the imposition of an oil embargo by members
of the League, and is prepared to join in any application
of such sanction if the other principal supplying and
transporting States who are members of the League are
prepared to do likewise.
The Abyssinians had just been defeated in a real
battle. The French Foreign Minister, getting up
before Mr. Anthony Eden, had proposed that the
Committee of Thirteen should be called together “to
initiate fresh peace proposals.” In the circumstances
Mr. Anthony Eden’s interruption was utterly tactless
as well as ill-expressed; but apparently he can’t help
making an ass of himself when Mr. Baldwin is not
about. Nominally, the thing his Government “favors”
does not bind Australia, but the Lyons Government
is so subservient to Mr. Anthony Eden that, in effect,
it does.
The Committee of Thirteen met immediately
afterwards. It adopted a resolution calling upon the
combatants to negotiate for peace; then it adjourned
for a week to await replies. These have now
been received, and are as favorable as can be expected.
Mr. Anthony Eden wanted answers within 48 hours,
which would have meant sending Italy an ultimatum ;
but he was overborne. British foreign policy has
seldom been in clumsier hands than those of Mr.
Anthony Eden.
4
The Speck Has Its Day.
This is a great period in Federal politics for Tas-
manians. The Prime Minister, of course, is a native
of Appleland, and so are the Speaker of the House
of Reps, and the Chairman of Committees in the
Senate. Before Mr. Guy was defeated at the polls
Tasmania had two representatives in the Ministry ;
Queensland, with four times the population, had one.
Political observers think it remarkable that within
the first 31 years of Federation the smallest and least-
populated State should have provided a Prime Min-
ister. He is now in his fifth year of office. It is a
tribute to the magnanimity of N. S. Wales, Victoria
and Queensland.
N. S. Wales has 28 members in a House of 75 ;
Victoria has 20 members. If these States were as selfish
and parochial as politicians in smaller States contend,
they could have made it impossible for Mr. Lyons
to become Prime Minister, as it is impossible for a
small-State man to become President of the U.S.A.
There is never any public recognition of the national
outlook which has made the elevation of Mr. Lyons
possible.
The people of N. S. Wales, Victoria and Queens-
land consent to taxation by the Commonwealth
for the benefit of the three “small States.” They
finance the development of their partners by providing
a plentiful supply of loan money. They ask for no
account of how the money is spent. They subsidise
a scale of expenditure which would be quite impos-
sible to Westralia, South Aus. and Tasmania if they
were “on their own.” Surely this is the true Federal
spirit.
«
Bad Guessing.
Customs revenue for eight months to the end of
February 29 was £2,663,288 above the official estimate.
Collections from import duties and excise were up
£2,509,077—£27,896,521, compared with £25,387,444
for the same eight months of 1934-35.
An average monthly increase of £33,000 over the
official estimate shows very bad guessing. Those in
close touch with Federal politics know that, though
these estimates of prospective revenue are drawn up
by officers, they are submitted to politicians before
being finally approved. There is one notorious
example of a Treasurer deliberately rejecting the esti-
mate of an expert officer and arbitrarily fixing his own.
Heroic underestimating of customs revenue has
been a feature of Commonwealth finance ever since
the depression. Look at these figures:
Increase of actual customs revenue com-
pared with the Budget estimate for
financial year 1934-35 £3,269,487
Increase above Budget estimate for 11
months (June-May) of 1933-34 £1,600,000
Increase above Budget estimate for 11
months (June-May) of 1932-33 .... £5,089,000
Figures for 11 months only are given for the
1932-33 and 1933-34 financial years, because the
Treasury did not issue separate statements of customs
revenue for June of those years. The disparity for
the 11 months in each case speaks eloquently, how-
ever.
Businessmen and private citizens have to be
responsible for their estimates of expenditure and
revenue. Why not Governments also?
4—
Trade with Lancashire.
The arrival of a delegation bent on increasing Aus-
tralian trade with Lancashire helps to illustrate the
lopsidedness of the British Empire. ; -
The area of Lancashire is 1875 sq. miles —equal
to a strip from Sydney to Newcastle (N.S.W.) about
18 miles wide. It contains 10 cities with populations
of 100,000 and more, including Manchester and Liver-
pool, and altogether over 5,000,000 people—26B7 to
the sq. mile. Australia has about 2\ persons to the
sq. mile.
Lancashire carries its big population largely because
of the conjunction of suitably-placed textile ports with
suitably-placed fuel and metals. Its crowded areas
are not the result of a desire for comfort on the part
of its people, for its towns are the most uncomfortable
in the white portions of the Empire, and what it is
pleased to call its climate is largely smoke-fouled
drizzle. But the people are frugal, dogged and intel-
ligent, and have a great capacity for work.
The comparative area from Sydney to Newcastle
has about a million and a half people, and upwards
of two millions get a living somehow in other
capital cities. The remaining 2,960,000 sq. miles of
the continent carry about one inhabitant to the sq.
mile —a lot of it about one to 100 sq. miles. In Sydney
and other Big Cities, instead of the people being
taken to materials and work, materials and work are
brought to the people, so that manufacture is burdened
with additional heavy taxes to save the desperately
struggling railways from falling into the hands of
receivers. Hence coalfields which should be hives
of industry are now everywhere half-idle, and vast
deposits of metals and oil-shale hear no voices but
those of the laughing jackass.
Lancashire and Yorkshire are loaded with
13,000-mile freight-rates on Australian raw materials,
and Australians in turn pay 13,000-mile freight-rates,
plus revenue duties, to get back in finished form the
products which they themselves—or, rather, the hand-
ful of themselves that are producing an exportable
surplus—have grown or mined.
The secretary of the N. S. Wales Chamber of
Manufactures goes to Britain this month to study
manufactures and discover whether various new indus-
tries cannot be established here. It is to be hoped
that his voice will not be drowned or his brain clogged
by the chorus of Australian politicians braying about
“our unparalleled resources.”
+
Influenza Again.
“Kwakprak” : London cables report a serious
epidemic o/ influenza in Russia, seemingly the same
disease as that which in six months of 1918-19 killed
almost twice as many people as the war had slain in
four years. The onset is reported to be relatively mild,
but is followed days later by severe collapse, with
lung, throat or heart complications.
No mention, so far, has been made of the startling
haemolytic effects which turned many 1918 sufferers
blackish-purple, even when it did not kill them.
Maoriland had an experience of that type, with heavy
mortality, introduced, via America, in October, 1918.
The Quarantine Service succeeded in keeping Australia
free from that disaster, a feat never adequately recog-
nised here, although other countries have given praise
to it.
It is to be hoped that equal vigilance and skill
will be forthcoming if we have to face another experi-
ence of the kind.
—: 4
A Rumpus in New Guinea.
The New Guinea Legislative Council is facing its
first great crisis. It has been operating for some time
in imitation of Australian Parliaments. It has a
“Hansard,” but little debate, because the Common-
wealth has been careful to appoint a civil-service
majority, and non-official members rarely do more
than raise a weak protest against bills drafted by offi-
cials, which must be passed.
Last month, however, a shipping bill was pro-
duced at six hours’ notice. Three shipping companies
feed the Mandated Territory—Burns Philp, who have
the mail contract and run a regular service to main
ports; Carpenters, who have two ships, which call at
irregular intervals, sometimes months apart, and the
Norddeutscher Lloyd.
The N.D.L. re-established contact four years ago
under a method which astonished the natives. It cut
the price of rice- and copra-bags at a time when copra
prices were at a starvation level, and it introduced a
policy of going anywhere for anything. New Guinea
has a wealth of deep water, and N.D.L. boats usually
call, not only at Rabaul and Madang, but at 30 to
40 individual plantations. They will pull up for a
couple of tons.
The shipping bill was designed to stop this. If
the other companies were prepared to follow the
N.D.L. line the measure might be justified ; but there
is talk of the Commonwealth subsidising them to do
what the Germans were prepared to do without
subsidy. When the bill came before the Council, there
was a row. Only one non-official member—local man-
ager of one of the shipping cos. —voted for it. The others
protested strongly.
Mr. Mullaly reinforced his protest by resigning
from the Council. Messrs. Pratt, Clark, McLennan
and Grose—the last one of the oldest and most experi-
enced ex-civil servants in the Territory—backed him
up, Mr. Grose saying that the Council v/as being used
as a rubber-stamp for Canberra.
The Government argues that what is being done
is merely an extension of the Australian coastal
restrictions, but this is far from true. The N.D.L.
ships do no local inter-port trade, but carry a con-
siderable quantity of exports direct overseas and pay
export tax of 2s. 6d. on every ton. The Administrator
has power to exempt them from the provisions of the
bill, and he can also fix fares and freight-rates on
“local” ships.
The planters’ bodies, the Returned Soldiers’ Asso-
ciation and the non-official members of the Council
have asked the Lyons Government to have the opera-
tion of the measure postponed till next session. This
is a fair request. The matter may have delicate inter-
national repercussions; in any case, it is important
enough to be dealt with by the Federal Parliament
rather than by officials in a hurry. The interests of
the planters—Diggers almost to a man —should be the
first consideration.
4
A Revolution in Dead Meat.
Vesteys have come to Australia, and their coming
is no little thing. For years their agents have been
visiting us, and —at a time when “advanced” trade-
union leaders were dreaming of “the revolution”
—they built huge meatworks in Darwin and
acquired the pick of the Victoria River country
—Wave Hill and other stations as large as
European countries. They have also, for more than
a decade, retained the services of some of the ablest
of northern pastoral authorities —Moray and his like.
In other words, they have put in 15 years of thorough
but unobtrusive experimental work.
Chilled-meat experiments have been in progress
for a generation. Argentina has been at an advantage
because it was nearer to the European markets, and
the limit of time for effective chilled-meat carriage
was about 21 days. In the last few years experiments
with longer-distance methods have been successful.
Immediately that was proved there was a move
to shift world trade. Vesteys put on the Australian
run a line of modern meat ships—the Star line—the
like of which had not previously been seen
in these parts. They also began to acquire
southern meatworks interests. The Angliss and
other works have fallen under their control, and,
just as quietly as they acquired them, they broughl
over some of the best of their South American pro-
duction men. What their exact investment in Aus-
tralia is nobody knows, but it is certainly £4,000,000,
perhaps £6,000,000, and their investment in staff
experience means more than their outlay in money.
Deductions from this are obvious: Australia is,
or soon will be, on the map as a chilled-beef export
country. The politicians know it; hence the efforts
of Mr. Lyons and Dr. Page to “secure a market for
Australian meat in London.” Vesteys do not need
these exertions, but it would be taken unkindly if
they said so.
There has been a widespread fear of meat com-
bines in Australia. It may be justified and it may not.
The fact remains that no country has developed a
large-scale beef export without huge capital invest-
ment in works and shipping lines and a laying down
of standard plants. That leads to perfect stardardisa-
tion of beef by companies which own retail shops in
hundreds in the countries to which the exports go.
If Vesteys can do for Australia what their works
have done for Argentina, Australia will share in con-
siderable gains.
4 —
Those Labor “Unity” Terms.
Dear Bulletin, —The suggestion industriously pro-
pagated by the daily press to the effect that I and
others have been readmitted to the Lang party is so
contrary to fact that it is necessary it should be
contradicted.
There is no question of our being “admitted” to
anything. We are, and have been for years past,
members of the A.L.P. (N.S.W. branch), and to talk
of admitting men to an organisation of which they
are already members is obviously to talk nonsense.
It is Mr. Lang and his friends who have been
readmitted to the A.L.P., from which they were
expelled by the governing body of the movement ( i.e
the Federal executive) for “ratting"’ on the party.
They have now given a pledge to abide in future by
the platform and rules ( inter alia, abandon the crazy
“Lang Plan”), and on this undertaking have been
readmitted to the A.L.P.— Arthur Griffith.
4
Giving Up the Colonies.
“Grasspan” has a brief for the black man:
Germany jumped at the suggestion that “uncivilised”
areas of the world should be surrendered by their present
controllers (Britons, of course, for the most part) and divided
among “the Powers.” It was made by British pacifists, and
vaguely endorsed by responsible politicians seeking support
for sanctions. And it may yet be regarded so seriously by
the world in general as to provide provocation for more
wars.
Naturally the nations desiring the “uncivilised” areas will
assert that the original owners are not fit to govern them-
selves and need the services of white philanthropists who
want raw material at low prices. To ensure the safety of
their souls, the philanthropists will dispatch forces necessary
to civilise the natives. As Edgar Wallace wrote in his verse
about the King of Oojee-Moojee: “We likewise sent a
Hotchkiss and a hundred red marines.” In the past the
Hotchkiss and the marines have played a big part in
“civilisation”; but the black man can no longer be regarded
as a cross between an ape and a tiger.
Scientific people, unprotected by Hotchkisses or marines,
have ventured among the most unprepossessing of primitive
races, untouched by the civilisation which the white man is
so eager to impose on them, and have found human beings
like themselves.
Gradually the humanness of the black man has become
known even to politicians and newspaper readers. We
hear of savages no longer; they are “backward races” now.
They nevertheless contrive to get a living, which is more than
can be said for some “advanced” races which have ample
means. And evidence is accumulating that the Hotchkiss and
the marines do not constitute the most effective means of
civilising “backward” races. The scientist and the school-
master and the engineer apply other and better methods.
In the course of three generations, the negro in America,
struggling up from slavery and hampered in every way, has
evolved intellectual types which are capable of holding then
own anywhere. The same nearo, had he had the same
inadequate facilities in his ancestral Africa, would probably
have proved himself capable of running his country as well as
the white races run their countries.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“A.N.S.”: At a
soapbox meeting on
the river bank near
Gunnedah (N.S.W.) a
local Commqnist had
the floor —or the turf.
Taking up an inter-
jector, he howled
“What chance have
you got of ever being
a director of your
company?” “None,” the other admitted.
“None! None! An’ why?” “I’m its
liquidator,” explained the man engaged
in finalising the affairs of the old Namoi
butter factory.
H= * * *
“Boolardy”: Octogenarian Edward
Wittenoom, just dead in Perth, was cer-
tainly the last knight in Australia —prob-
ably one of the last' in the Empire—who
received the distinction from Queen Vic-
toria herself. Also, he was very nearly
if not quite the last man whom the Queen
knighted personally; she was herself an
octogenarian in 1900 when Wittenoom,
then Agent-General, went to Windsor
Castle for the ceremony. The thing that
struck him most about the venerable
sovereign, he used to say, was the elegant
smallness of the royal hand.
* H= H= *
“Hamer”: Passion-fruit has helped to
put Australia on the map in America,
the name having struck the Yank humor-
ists as a theme for levity. A young man
I was reading about recently was a quiet
character “until he went for one of those
Australian passion-fruit drinks sold in
the drug stores,” after which he became
a regular Lothario. Not being acquainted
with the curious formation in the pas-
sion flower, the Yanks naturally imagine
the name has something to do with
“pash.” I once asked a recently-arrived
American actress if she had tasted our
passion-fruit. “What does it do to you?”
she asked.
* H= * H=
“S. Gumm”: What’s in a name? A
great deal, as far as public interest is
concerned, if the name belongs to a
party in the dock on a murder charge.
In Maoriland a musician has been found
guilty of poisoning his wife with veronal.
If he had been plain William Smith and
the lady Jane Smith, the populace would
have followed the case with perfect sang-
froid. But he is called Mareo, and
Mareo summons up dim but enchanting
second-hand impressions of La Scala, the
Grand Canal, the Riviera, Phillips Oppen-
heim, and an illustrious tenor singing in
the street for a starving cripple ; so even
sober Maoriland surrendered to an
almost delirious excitement. And the
thrills are not over, for Mr. Mareo is
appealing.
* * H= * j
“S.T.S.”: Carl Linger, the com-
poser of “The Song of Australia,” which
S.A. has steadily adopted as its national
anthem, is having a boom in that State
for centennial purposes. MS. music of
his has been brought out, and Prof.
Harold Davies finds in it “creative gifts
of an exceptional order.” Incidentally,
a radio announcer made a diversion by
saying that the MS. had been “found in
a well,” adding tardily “preserved con-
dition.”
* * * h=
“E. and 0.E.”: Touching the dis-
appearance of engrossing in legal docu-
ments (B. 26/2/’36), when I first entered
upon articles to a Queensland G;ent.
One all documents pertaining to the pro-
fession were in hand o’ write. I still
“Get ready , Bill —’ere comes Prosperity round the corner .”
recall the fulminations of the late Judge
Chubb when the first typed affidavit he
had seen was handed to him by a Towns-
ville solicitor. The finest engrosser I
ever saw was managing clerk of the firm
I was articled to. One of the old school,
with plenty of work of his own, he
always insisted on engrossing the impor-
tant deeds, etc., drawn up in the office.
For the exquisite black-lettering of such
phrases as the familiar “This indenture
Witnesseth,” etc., he used a pen which he
cut himself from a slip of bamboo.
H= * * *
“Miro”: Sneak thieves are always hit-
ting on new devices or reviving old ones.
I live in a neighborhood where gardens
are fnany and varied. The other morn-
ing a carter delivered a lawn-mower, new
and partially wrapped in sacking,' to a
suburban villa, where the owner’s young
wife took charge of it and left it beside
the back door. Five minutes later a
young man, who had evidently watched
the carter delivering the goods, arrived
breathlessly to say the wrong mower had
been left, collected it from the unsus-
pecting woman, saying he would be back
with the right one, and vanished with it.
Nothing has since been seen of either.
* * * *
“Rapid Fire”: “Kali” (B. 26/2/’36)
tells us he saw Bathurst prison warders
carrying “Lee-Enfield rifles of the 1884
brand.” The rifle which takes its name
from the Lee breech action and the En-
field barrel did not come into existence
until after the Boer War, when, as the
Short Lee-Enfield, it was issued to all
white troops in the Imperial service. It
succeeded the Lee-Metford, another bolt-
action rifle, which had, in it turn, dis-
placed the old Martini. What “Kali”
saw was probably the old Martini car-
bine. There was a Martini-Enfield which
was carried by the early Queensland
M.I. regiments in the Boer War. A
single-shot rifle, it was a light and accu-
rate weapon, but far outranged by the
magazine Mausers of the Boers.
* H=. * *
“S.G.”: I like not the new newspaper
trick of leaving out necessary a’s and
the’s. In this fashion:
First prize in State lottery No. 19,278
was won by Mr. William Cleaver, popu-
lar butcher, of Bogalong. A tenth share
in the ticket was held by Mr. Dogspike,
well-known platelayer, of the same dis-
trict.
An alluring cocktail-party gown is worn
by Bobby Slink, beautiful film star, in
“Did She?” It consists of bullock’s-blood
tulle trimmed with blobs of lipstick velvet
and ends four inches above the knee. It
was the creation of Eugene Singemoine,
famous French designer.
It is execrable English, but I suppose it
has come to stay, like “incinerated” for
“burnt to death,” and “tributed” for
“paid a tribute to.” These “improve-
ments” and others equally barbarous may
all be attributed to lazy or careless editors
of newspaper cablegrams or telegrams,
which are necessarily abbreviated ; and
they may all be seen nowadays even in
Great Dailies.
* H= * *
“Kwakprak”: The new attempt being
made on Mt. Everest has some interest-
ing physiological details about it. Man
is more adaptable to the oxygen-short-
age effects of extreme altitudes than are
most other animals—cats, for example,
die at 14,000 ft., cows at 15,000 ft.—but
it is still an open question whether men
can survive on the summit of Everest
without oxygen apparatus; and the ex-
pedition has no intention of testing it.
A curious feature of “mountain sickness”
is that the first gastric upset and weak-
ness is followed by a quarrelsome stage.
With the few observatory officers and
guides who live on the top of Pike’s Peak
(U.S.A.) there is stationed a sheriff for
the special purpose of dealing with can-
tankerous visitors. The residents do not
get that way, because the bone marrow
soon begins to make new red blood cor-
puscles, which increase the oxygen-carry-
ing capacity of the blood. The kidneys
help by retaining products which stimu-
late the breathing centres, and the oxygen
supply to the brain thus becomes re-
established at the normal.
* * * *
“Keg”: Tell “Alea” (B. 26/2/’36)that
lottery winnings are not subject to tax
as income in N. S. Wales. There is no
earthly reason why they should not be,
except that the party that introduced such
a measure would lose a few votes. This
does not mean that the taxation people
are not interested. The threepence on
the ticket gives the Government £1250
every time a sweep is drawn.
* * * *
“Bendigo”: I wonder if “Texas Jack,”
who passes on his Bulletins to where
he thinks they will be most appreciated
(B. 4/3/’36), has ever caught up with
one of his old copies. I have. Every
week for years past, after reading my
Bully through, I have posted it to an
old pal in S.A., from whom I regularly
receive an Adelaide weekly in exchange.
I knew my friend passed The Bulletin
on to a brother on a sheep station up
Broken Hill way, and I always supposed
that this finished its travels. But last
Christmas, v/hen I was in N.Q., a sugar-
grower said to me: “I must show you
a good joke in this week’s Bully,” and
he produced a well-worn copy. “It’s not
really this week’s,” he explained ; “I have
them sent on to me.” That was the very
paper I’d originally paid my sixpence for.
Scratched-out addresses traced it, after
leaving the sheep station, through Cobar
and Deniliquin (N.S.W.) to Cloncurry,
whence my temporary host was the
seventh regular recipient. “Where do
you send them?” I asked, after I had
convinced him. “Oh, I just keep ’em,”
he replied. I told him that unless he
immediately discovered a friend in Tassie
or W.A. to carry on the good work I’d
cut off his supply at the fountain-head.
* * * *
“Bo”: It would scarcely be supposed
that the imposition of sanctions against
Italy would cause Mayfair any incon-
venience, yet it has already resulted in
a change in coiffure styles. Nearly all the
hair used by London’s society women for
supplementing their own store comes from
the Land of Olives. Regret at the ban
isn’t all one-sided either, for fancy prices
were paid ; one titled dame used to pay
£6 an ounce for a particular shade, which
she always obtained from the same Pied-
montese peasant woman. The hirsute
excellence of Piedmontese women is
attributed to the cheese and milk which
form the bulk of their diet. Air, too,
has a marked effect upon the texture of
tresses, the rarefied atmosphere of Alpine
Italy being particularly favorable.
“Brilliant Deeps”;
A Gympie (Q.) show
which struck payable
gold recently cele-
brated by hoisting a
red flag. It is a once-
universal mining cus-
tom which has long
fallen into disuse. Be-
fore the war I was
driving through
Charters Towers with
an old South African
mate who had been in
the first alluvial rush
at Barberton. He
spotted a red flag fly-
ing in a huddle of
wooden houses and
exclaimed delightedly
at the sight the
chance of a payable
gold proposition is
always manna in the
desert to a mining ad-
dict. But I had to set
him right and explain
that the flag was
flown by a midwife in
a large way of busi-
ness to mark her
house. At night the
lady hoisted a red
lamp, just as a brigade
commander does in
the army to denote his H.Q.
* * * *
“Alpha”: Can’t work up much sym-
pathy for either “Worried” or “General
Prac.” when it comes to a question of
professional outlook (B. 26 /2 / ’36). The
B.M.A. is a close corporation which
conserves the interests of its members
more closely than does any known union.
And lawyers are relatively few in
number compared with school-teachers,
though it takes as much money to be-
come a school-teacher (degreed) as a
solicitor, with the same time-limit—
there are 10,000 teachers in N.S.W.,
few making much over the basic wage.
Chemists and electrical engineers have
an easier task to get qualified, but most
of them would cheerfully change places
with a suburban quack —their game is
really overdone.
He * * *
“T.P.”: “Ichabod Crane” says there is
an unwritten rule in the N.S.W. Educa-
tion Department that all anonymous
letters reflecting on members of the ser-
vice should be destroyed (B. 26/2/’36).
We Victorians —and I write as a former
ped. for half a century —always found
Frank Tate death on the “poison pen.'
To those sneaks who wanted to injure a
teacher privately he would say: “There
are foolscap, ink, pen. Make your
charge! No? Then please leave my
office.” Yet no clerk whose duty it was
to open letters and place them on the
various trays had instructions to destroy
unsigned specimens without submission
to the responsible man. Given a vindic
tive anonymous charge, surely the mar
or woman at whom it is aimed shoulc
be entitled to a warning that there is '<■
snake in his or her neighborhood.
“OUR FIVE-MEAL, MEAT-FED
MEN.”
“Australians are the heartiest eaters in the world,
in the opinion of Lincoln Ellsworth—they beat
Swedes, Norwegians and Americans.”
He’s knocked about the world in various
regions
Where honest toil to healthy hunger leads;
He’s seen innocuous seals done in by legions
To furnish famished Eskimos with feeds,
Noted the table prowess of Norwegians,
Observed the gastronomic feats of Swedes;
Yet never a race that’s come within his ken
Can vie with ours, he holds, as trenchermen.
Some visitors applaud our girls as fairies,
Our youths as models for Olympic games.
His verdict is we’re primi inter pares,
We lead whoe’er may follow, he proclaims,
At fondly studying our “Little Marys”
And stowing sustenance within our frames —
A somewhat novel angle on us, this.
Eh, brother-dieter? Eh, slimming Sis.?
Some eulogise our skill with bats and racquets
Or our proficiency with picks and ploughs,
But here is one awards us winning brackets
And our superiority allows
In that fine art which tightens dinner-jackets
And not infrequently distends the blouse,
One who’s discerned among the popping corks
Our real metier is with knives and forks.
He’s had the nosebag on beneath th’ Equator’s
Fierce heat and under scowling Polar skies;
He’s dined with kings and hobnobbed with
dictators.
And no one knows so well that Yankee guys
Are far from negligible
operators
On juicy porterhouse
and steaming pies.
But when the point arises
who can eat
The most, we’ve got the
world, he reckons,
beat.
Some there may be can
hit the bottle
harder,
Or rise to even giddier,
dizzier heights
In the fierce zest and un-
abating ardor
Displayed for other
physical delights,
But when it comes to
emptying the
larder
His money’s on Aus-
tralian appetites.
Hard fact or playful
humor? Who can
tell?
Not I, but, say, was that
the dinner-bell?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ocki Pog”: The local member was
just about to declare the new bridge
open when Bill the mailman rattled to a
sudden stop. Glaring at the ceremonial
strand of ribbon he honked im-
patiently. An official stepped up in mild
protest, but Bill bawled, “Down with
them ribbons —y’ can’t ’old the mail
up!” Further argument found him more
intractable, and he ended with the fiat:
"Drop ’em, or I’ll De Groot ’er!” They
dropped ’em.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “For the first time in 94
years Britain has no Prince of Wales,” a
writer in Melbourne “Age” asserts —not
quite correctly. It hadn’t one for the
greater part of 1901. Queen Victoria
died on Jan. 22, and the then Prince of
Wales came into his own ; but not until
Nov. 9 was a new Prince of Wales
created. The future (and late) King
George was still the Duke of York till
he returned home after his visit to these
parts. A week or two later the more
imposing title came his way as a birth-
day present.
'< * * *
“Bland”: My war souvenirs are at
least unusual ones. There is the name
stamp of Hazebrouck, which I salvaged
from a cottage in Caestre or Fletre. I
suppose it was the property of the Maire,
and my theory is that he was sheltering
there from the German shelling. I also
hold a sheaf of ecclesiastical documents
from the bishop’s house in Villers Bret.
(I lodged in his cellar); a few copies of
German notices to civilians in Belgium ;
a sheet of paper with increasing ranges
marked on it, blown up with the gun it
referred to near Vaire on the Somme
(1918); a German leave pass, diaries from
captured Fritzes and the shrapnel pellet
that sent me away from Gallipoli.
“Garrotter’s Striker”: I erd
a bloke argue once an he
reccond that this ear Syense
was a good thing. I no now
he was a liar, an if is mug was
anywair andy I’d nock the cow
rotten with a nuckelduster.
This grate thing Syense, I see,
can tell the D’s by lookin at
dust—a lousy bit of dust, mind
yer—who it was dominode the
dead un. Some Yank D, I see,
by scrapin orf a bit of dust
from a stiff’s fingernails, shode
that the cove that swiped him
wor a purpel shirt, was goin
borled, carried a bonandeld pen
nife an worked in a sand pit.
They got im orlright, corse
when they arrested him he
sqeeld. They reccon they can
tell from a strand of hair an a
shred of tobaccer who did a
crime. An even gluvs won’t
save a bloke. Spare me days!
This is wots causin all the
truble to-day—Syense doin
blokes out of jobs.
“Centurion”: Light Horsemen will
hear with pleasure that the British Gov-
ernment will destroy all cavalry horses
discarded in Egypt as a result of mechan-
isation rather than leave them to the
tender mercies of the unspeakably cruel
Egyptian. The step is necessary, for to
return the horses to Britain would mean
the introduction of glanders and surra,
not to mention other appalling animal
diseases which flourish in the land of
the Pharaohs. When the British and
Australian cavalry regiments went
home in 1919 something of the sort was
suggested, but as there were many thou-
sand neddies killing was out of the ques-
tion. So the poor brutes were sold—into
the vilest slavery, save for a fair pro-
portion of Walers quietly taken into the
desert and shot by the men who had
ridden them—in many cases, from the
Canal to Damascus. An Englishwoman
whose name deserves to be held in honor
“I told him it Was only carbolic acid, but he Wouldn't take my Word
for it.”
years ago started a fund to buy up these
horses and destroy them. Six months
ago the cables reported that the last of
the unhappy beasts had been disposed
of in this fashion.
* * *
“D.8.K.”: The old four-wheeler cab
could stand a good deal, but I saw one
disintegrated once in Plymouth. AP. and
O. liner, homeward bound, had put in
to drop mails and a few passengers.
The skipper, fat and jolly, was a Ply-
mouth man; so was the senior Sparks,
and together they paid a swift unoffi-
cial visit to their homes. Meeting at
a prearranged spot, they found time very
short, and not' a taxi within coo-ee. The
only available conveyance was a decrepit
“growler,” drawn by a venerable horse.
On arrival at the quay, they unavail-
tried to get out; the door of the
relic had jambed, Finally, the heavy-
weight skipper placed a vast shoulder
amidships and heaved. Not only the
door gave, but the whole side of
the cab, depositing the fares on the
“ Doesn’t matter what you tell me, I Won't believe it!”
“All ri' then —I bin round the town with a dinkum sport an a coupla
— hie — sheilahs .”
cobbles and leaving the cabby tearfully
surveying the ruins of the four-
wheeler he had had for a lifetime, and
his father and grandfather before that.
Meanwhile skipper and Sparks sprinted
for the launch; but they paid up hand-
somely when on leave later.
“Ex-Officer”: One way to make the
militia more popular (B. 4/3/’36) would
be to enlist feminine sympathy. Said
an English colonel at a Territorial dinner
in England a few months ago: “I am
told on good authority, and I am sorry
to hear it, that at the present time young
girls don’t set the same store by a soldier
as they used to. All I can say is I am
very sorry for them. In the old days
every girl loved a soldier or sailor; and
a damn’ good thing, too.” Isn’t it about
time that Mr. Archie Parkhill put a word
in with the Bright Young Things of the
U.A.P.?
* H-" * *
“Blackadder”: Mention of a few
quaint names of pubs (B. 4/3/’36) will
generally provoke a symposium on the
subject. But sometimes the very home-
liest are the most intriguing, and there is
always a chance of their containing a
certain historical interest. Jimmy
Edmond, in one of his Palestine tours,
claimed to have discovered a wayside
tavern labelled the “The Three Com-
forters,” owing to a tradition that the
trio who went to console Job in his afflic-
tions had stopped there or thereabouts
to refresh themselves at some almost pre-
historic date. On a bleak Somerset-
shire upland I once happened on an
isolated and dismal-looking beerhouse
that proclaimed itself to travellers under
the uninviting designation of “Tucker’s
Grave.” The name puzzled me; an
ancient in a smock frock who was absorb-
ing cider in the taproom supplied a
rambling enlightenment. A highwayman
named Tucker had been shot down by
King George s men some two centuries
before and buried at the adjacent cross-
roads, where he met his fate. Probably
he was a very undistinguished operator,
but his memory had been preserved in
a way denied to such dashing figures as
Dick Turpin and Claude Duval.
* * * *
“In Vino”: The story is told of a de-
ceased newspaper autocrat that he once
arrived at one of his Big-City offices, after
hitting the bottle overhard, and incon-
tinently sacked the whole of the literary
staff —or all whom he could find. Then
he settled himself in the
editorial chair, buried his
head in his hands, and
gave way to bitter tears
—whether for his own
condition or the victims
of his sudden burst of
rage has never been
ascertained. The sound
of his sobs shook the
empty offices and
attracted a sub-editor
who had escaped the
general cataclysm by
having loitered a bit
over his lunch. Taking
in the situation at a
glance—the same thing
having happened once or
twice before —he laid his
hand soothingly upon
the Big Noise’s shoulder.
“Don’t take on so, Mr.
N.,” he adjured the
chief; “I’m here still.”
John raised a tear-
streaked face and eyed
his would-be comforter almost savagely.
“So I see,” he barked ; “and isn’t that
enough to break anybody up?”
* * * *
“Friar Tuck”: “Centurion” (B.
26/2/’36) is at sea when he says that the
War Office is returning to its old method
of owning its own transports; that
troopship is being built for the 8.1.
Co., which has been doing the troop-
ing for the Admiralty. King’s Regula-
tions provide that all troops at sea are
transported by and under the orders of
the Royal Navy. War Department
vessels only are owned by the War
Office, never troopships.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Touching the f®r
fair-haired heroes in drama (B. 4/3/’36).
I remember an occasion when, wigs hav-
ing gone astray with some of our co.’s
chattels, the characters had to appear in
their own natural thatches. It sent the
whole performance astray; a puzzled
audience appeared to imagine that the
fair villain could not be as bad as he
seemed, and gave him sympathetic cheers
for his most hypocritical whinings, whilst
it showed a readiness to condemn the
black-haired hero which spoilt the whole
spirit of the play. It was probably a
realisation of this feeling that caused
George Rignold to sack a black-haired
juvenile (he is white-haired now and not
a juvenile) for coming on the stage with-
out a fair wig. I was reprimanded once
for appearing in a broad comedy part
without a brick-red wig. That insignia of
the comedy merchant is also traditional.
“Verri”: The villain wasn’t the only
person whom English stage tradition re-
quired to be dark-haired. Some years
ago Maoriland saw a silent film of “Ham-
let,” staged in Denmark, with the ancient
castle of Elsinore as the background.
When Hamlet made his first appearance,
walking across the drawbridge, the audi-
ence gasped to see a tall, handsome
youth with flaxen curls falling to his
shoulders, looking, in fact, as a Danish
princeling of Hamlet’s day probably did
look. The Danes, a racially fair people,
regard the dark and sombre Hamlet with
disfavor.
* * * *
“Solway”: Stuart (B. 4/3/’36) simply
means steward, being, therefore, an occu-
pational name. The founder of the
Stewart-Stuart tribe as we know it took
his name from having been appointed
first steward of Galloway, a wild terri-
tory in the south-west of Scotland which
the Crown had neither time nor inclina-
tion to administer. In a very short time
the Steward of Galloway became to all
intents and purposes an independent
sovereign, and his kingdom became
known as The Stewartry, a title it bears
to this day.
H: * * *
“P.M.”: I have lived near level cross-
ings in Victoria for years, and I am satis-
fied there is no limit to the risks some
people will take. Recently I saw a
farmer driving up to a crossing as a fast
passenger train was approaching. He
flogged his 30-year-old mare across, the
loco, being 50 feet away, and hadn’t gone
many yards when the old mare stumbled.
Had she stumbled right on the rails it
would have been the end of him—but
his own foolhardiness would have been
the cause. I could give dozens of similar
instances.
ON WITH THE OLD.
“The hobble skirt is returning to fashion.”
-—“Sunday Sun.”
Doomed is the freedom of the wide-flung leg!
The time draws near when, tearing for the
bus,
No more will Flo and Kitty, Maud and Meg
Take lengthy strides to pace it out with us.
Though they may sigh for that habiliment
Which left their legs untrammelled, it’s a
cert
That, martyr-like, they’ll suffer nor resent
The limitations of the hobble skirt.
Woman, the restless, has (unlike her lord,
Whose clobber changes not from year to
year)
Persistently and patiently explored
All avenues in the sartorial sphere.
And often as designers find they’re “grassed”
For new ideas —well, they just revert
To fashions resurrected from the past,
Like leg-o’-mutton sleeves and hobble skirt.
And men, home-going, who have hitherto,
Held up at stopping-places, muttered
“damns”
Will find some compensation in the view
Of damsels delicately boarding trams.
The ukase issues from some fashion czar
That nether limbs must once again be girt
With that absurd, fantastic and bizarre
Item of woman’s dress, the hobble skirt.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


is
is.
%
V
20 /orlG
10/;
9
or
I ft^yt
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAYENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
f:
J
GENERATI
R K TI PP E D - CIGARETTE
THIS
POLITICAL POINTS
In spite of protestations to the con-
trary, the drain on London funds is
causing concern. In 1934-35 our trade
balance didn’t meet overseas interest.
For the first six months of the current
year there was a credit of 10.8 millions
sterling towards an annual debt charge of
20-odd millions sterling ; and two-thirds
of our wool clip is already gone. Exports
(in quantity) are sure to be less during
the next four months. Meantime, im-
ports are coming in at a disturbing rate.
Labor-Leader Curtin would prefer to
“mass immigration,” which nobody pro-
poses, “a policy that would settle Aus-
tralians of Melbourne and Sydney in
North Westralia.” Why leave out Perth?
It is not nearly so far away from North
Westralia as Melbourne or Sydney, and
in proportion to State population is as
congested as either.
Abbott, M.H.R., is after the appoint-
ment of a select committee to inquire into
the Barkly Tableland project', for which a
Government loan of £1,000,000 is sought.
Cabinet is unsympathetic; the Prime
Minister states that all necessary infor-
mation is at the disposal of a Cabinet
sub-committee set up years ago to ponder
on problems affecting the North. Unless
Abbott can get considerable rank-and-
file support, his proposal will be shelved.
Canberra Cabinet sub-committees
rarely do anything. The one whose exis-
tence has been recollected by the P.M. by
way of chiding Abbott, M.H.R., has been
wrapped in slumber ever since it was
formed. There was a preliminary an-
nouncement that it was proposed to
develop the North by chartered company,
and then the Government yawned deeply
and made itself comfortable again. Since
then there have been sounds of deep
snoring from the sub-corn, but no action.
Construction of a railway to the
Gulf Country is proposed by the Mt. Isa
Co., which wants a Government subsidy.
The Brisbane Ministers, being socialists,
have cold-shouldered the project. Soon
it will be deposited on Lyons’s doorstep.
Dunstan has three Assembly by-elec-
tions on hand—for Allandale and
Rodney, Parkin and John Allan having
died, and for Goulburn Valley, Bourchier
having been appointed Agent-General.
The Cockies are easy in their minds
about Rodney and Daylesford, but Allan-
dale is another pair of sleeves.
At the Vic. general election last year,
Cocky preferences put Parkin in, U.A.P.
and C.P. being then allies. This time the
Cocky nominee, Glenn —he is a Ballarat
solicitor —says he won’t ask his supporters
to give their No. 2’s to the U.A.P. candi-
date, Baird ; and Labor man Denigan,
who was second to Parkin, swears that
Baird will get none of his supporters’
seconds. Whichever way it goes, the
Cockies may permanently alienate their
friends of the immediate present or those
of the recent past.
To meet the situation brought about
by the Supreme Court’s veto on his
agricultural measures, and by the pass-
ing of the Soldiers’ Bonus Bill over his
veto, President Roosevelt announced ter-
rific increases in taxes. Then, in a chal-
lenging spirit, he immediately went on
the market for 650 million dollars in
12- to 15-year bonds at 2f p.c., and
600 million dollars in five-year Treasury
notes at If p.c. It was putting his popu-
larity to a severe test, but the answer was
decidedly in his favor, the 1250 million
dollars being subscribed within a day. If
there was any doubt about his nomina-
tion that will make it a certainty, and
there seems no Republican in sight who
can beat him.
Alberta’s first Douglas Credit Budget
provides for “a new 2 p.c. sales tax on
all commodities, a new social service tax
and a higher income tax,” also for a
deficit of five million dollars. No men-
tion of the 25 dollars a month promised
by Mr. Have-a-heart and subsequently
dismissed by him as “a figure of speech.”
From the N.S.W. Assembly’s debate
on Martin’s Companies Bill:
Mr. Lloyd interjected: What did Theo-
dore, Cody and Packer make out of the
Fiji transactions?
The Minister: What is the public
saying about that?
Mr. Horsington: They did not make
their money out of Fiji. They made it
out of the foolish people who buy shares.
“S. M. Herald” reported it —you could
almost hear the old girl sniggering.
Theodore and Packer have bought the
“Daily Telegraph.”
No small amount of the unemployed-
relief money raised in N. S. Wales has
been advanced to suburban councils for
“Olympic swimming pools.” Almost
every Sydney local body within a few
miles of the finest surfing beaches in the
world has an “Olympic swimming pool”
or plans to get one. North Sydney’s has
“The Governor of Queensland has described Mr. Forgan Smith as ‘the Premier who has
never broken a promise.”
“It’s a ’ richt; it’s na broke —only a wee bit bent.”
cost £41,000 already, and an alderman
gloomily predicts that there will be no
change left from £50,000 when it is fin-
ished ; and it has been estimated that
the staff will require nearly 60 pounds a
week. During some winter weeks the re-
ceipts will be fully 60 pence.
To encourage local bodies to go in for
grandiose relief works, the Stevens Gov-
ernment has had a law passed cancelling
the old right of the ratepayers to interdict
borrowing. The Government may now
permit municipal loans for “works,”
though 99 p.c. of the ratepayers vote
against them. And, according to T. J.
Rofe, the solicitor and Hornsby coun-
cillor, “only about eight Sydney councils”
(there are 49) “have assets exceeding
liabilities.”
Westralian Labor is allowing Ken-
neally to remain in the Cabinet until his
case is decided. The defeated Minister has
asked the Court of Disputed Returns to
void the East Perth election because his
conqueror was bankrupt on polling day,
though Hughes has since paid his debts
and received a clean discharge. It must
be the first time on record that a Labor
politician and Caucus have tried to
thwart the Will of the People in this
fashion; but Westralian Labor hates
Hughes so much that it can’t think dis-
passionately where he is concerned.
All Fed. Labs, expelled by Lang
Labor are entitled to membership of the
“unified” N.S.W. branch of the A.L.P.,
among them Chifley, who opposed Lang
at the last State election, and Theodore.
As the next step to general harmony, it
is proposed that the A.W.U. in N.S.W.
should throw in its lot with the “unified”
branch. The A.W.U. paper might
brighten the rather dull proceedings by
reprinting its report of that speech of
Theodore’s in which “leather-lunged low-
brows” was the orator’s choicest term for
Langsters.
Public Works employees in Maoriland
are to have their weekly hours reduced
from 47 to 40 “without reduction of pay,”
which is to be the same for single and
married men. They are also to have
annual holidays— two weeks on full pay
after two years’ service—and camp libra-
ries stocked with “books on economics,”
instead of two-up schools and shanties.
Minister Semple hopes that all this will
be an example to the world. Perhaps
it will, but it won’t be easy to carry
the example into other trades not
sheltered nor fed with loan money.
Ghosts from the past must' hover dis-
approvingly round the Queensland Leg.
Council Chamber now that it is being
used for Caucus powwows. After the
Council was abolished 13 years or so ago,
the rooms which had known the stately
Dundrearies of Arthur Morgan and a
hundred other hirsute glories through
which Conservative heroes of the past
emitted statesmanship were placed at the
service of “comrades.” But, except for
occasional overflows of overcome guests
and the vice-regal levee on the King’s
Birthday, the Chamber itself was left to
the ghosts until now.
Dunstan and co. have been a long
time thinking out what they call their
“transport policy,” but they have now
arrived at a decision to renew road
licenses to goods carriers who had them
before August, 1933. Giving tongue
to one of his thoughts, Dunstan said it
would be a grand thing to “write off
railway capital” as Queensland did
(£30,000,000 is mentioned, and interest
would have to be paid as usual, but that
is a mere detail), and he asked the Allan-
dale electors to remember that “road
transport services have rendered great
benefits to this State.” That is true, and
not of Victoria alone, but N.S.W. and
Queensland politicians and bureaucrats
refuse to admit it.
Savage, the new P.M. on the other
side of the Tasman, is an Australian and
a Labor man, but there is no Australian
Labor man quite like him. While Aus-
tralian Labor men were howling last week
against immigration, Savage said “Popu-
lation should be our first line of defence.”
As for defence:
We don’t know enough about what
Britain is doing and Britain doesn’t know
enough about what we are doing. This
also applies to other parts of the Empire.
For instance, New Zealand does not know
what Australia is doing to any great ex-
tent.
In a previous speech he said that Aus-
tralia and Maoriland should have a
common air-mail policy. He must be as
great a puzzle to Parkhill as he is to
Curtin.
The banks, left with piles of idle
money three years ago, have little trouble
in getting clients now. Problem is to
find the finance. On average balances,
since December, 1932, advances of nine
trading banks have gone up by 27 mil-
lions ; owing partly to the repatriation
of funds (estimated at 10 millions) by
overseas firms trading in' the Common-
wealth, the increase in deposits has been
only 15 millions. There has actually been
a drop of eight millions in fixed deposits.
That is the position ; and cloudy argu-
ments between Curtin and Lyons won’t
help.
Ministers and Directors of Education
from the six States collected in Melbourne
for a conference which was one long
damaging admission of how technical
education has been neglected under pro-
vincial control. A gentleman from West-
ralia confessed that of “£600,000 p.a.
allotted for education” his Government
could spare only £lB,OOO for the techni-
cal side—this though it is getting
£BOO,OOO from the Commonwealth in one
special grant. They all demanded another
special grant —“£2,000,000, spread over
four years.” Naturally no one put in a
word for transfer of education control
to the Commonwealth (and with it the
surrender of the ordinary State income
taxes, which, taken together, return less
than their six education “systems” cost);
but Melbourne “Age” testily told the
gentlemen when they were dispersing that
they had helped the cause of unification.
From “Molongloside”:
The Government has gone cold on the Inter-
State Commission, revival of which was
promised in the policy speech. One supposes
that when the P.M. is tackled about it he
will reply, “I certainly promised to revive the
commission, but I didn’t say when.” The
Constitution states that “there shall be an
Inter-State Commission,” and if the States
chiefly concerned —Westralia, South Australia
and Tasmania —chose to take united action they
could compel the Government to appoint one.
Possibly it is stalling until after the general
election, with the idea that Lyons, being then
relieved of the promise he gave that he
would not take a seat on the commission,
might change his mind. But people in close
touch with politics are beginning to think that
Joseph will go to London as High Commis-
sioner, though not until 1938.


IT’S AN ILL WIND...


So writes the user of an “R-an-
D Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: JlacEwan's
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEE/4SL ATM O BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD
•VALLEV •;_• BRISBAAI E ?-''>4aSl
¥OO WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age 7 If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost l
® In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House. St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
iiiii
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Ernest Scott, who retires from the pro-
fessorship of history at Melbourne Uni-
versity, has had an unusual career. Born
in Northampton (Eng.) 68 years ago, he
was trained as a pressman on the old
London “Globe,” but came to Australia
when he was 24 and joined the Mel-
bourne “Herald.” A place was soon
found for him on Vic. “Hansard” staff,
but in 1901 he transferred to the Federal
Parliament, and remained in the gallery
till 1914. For nearly 20 years he devoted
his leisure to historical study, and though
he had no university degree his writings
had sufficiently established him to make
his choice certain when his name was
suggested for the professorship which he
has held since. He is an ardent traveller,
and has added a good deal to the know-
ledge of early Australian voyages of dis-
covery by his original research among
European archives.
Koki Hirota, the new Japanese
Premier, is a lawyer, diplomatist and
publicist. He has served as Ambassa-
dor to the Netherlands and U.S.S.R.,
leaving Moscow to become Foreign
Minister in 1932. He speaks English
well, has been in charge of the
European and American information
bureaux, and was executive publicity
man to the Foreign Office for some years.
His policy is pacific. He urged on the
Latham mission the appointment of an
Australian Minister to Tokio, but after-
wards agreed that there were so few out-
standing differences between the two
countries that it was unnecessary.
Twenty-two-year-old T. J. Kennedy put
up something of a legal record last week.
Rounded up with 27 other fledglings, he
was solemnly called to the Victorian
Bar, and at once received a brief to
appear lonehanded next morning before
the Victorian Full Court in a divorce
appeal. And he won it, too.
L. C. Gamage is one of the young
directors of the British General Electric
Co., and for many years has been the
Captain L. C. GAM AGE, director of
the B.G.E.
right-hand man of Lord Hirst, the head
of the concern, whose eldest daughter
he married. He served in the war with
the 24th London regiment and won the
M.C. He is on a visit to Australia.
Just dead, at 69, Harry Osborne was
well known in the grazing world as the
owner of Currandooley, Bungendore
(N.S.W.), which he inherited from his
father. To the general public he was
familiar as a member of the A.J.C. com-
mittee and a persistent follower of big
racing. He married a daughter of the
late John Madden, C.J., of Victoria, and
served in the war with the British Army.
The Queensland Road Transport De-
velopment Association has appointed
Major P. Goldenstedt, who has been
a thorn in the flesh of N.S.W.
Transport Departments, as its organising
director. There are many Diggers of
Gallipoli and Palestine who have mem-
ories of “Goldie’s” energy. He won his
commission at Lone Pine, transferred to
the Imperial Camel Corps, and thence to
the sth Light Horse Brigade. After the
war he made a name for himself in the
British political service, which had the job
of cleaning up the debris which the
Armistice and the Versailles wrangle left
behind in Palestine, Syria and Trans-
Jordania.
Arthur H. Adams,
whose name was a
household word when
he was editor of The
Bulletin’s Red Page
and, later, of the “Lone
Hand,” has died in
Sydney, aged 63. A
Maorilander from
Otago, Adams was
trained for the law, but
left it for the press. He
saw the Boxer Rebel-
lion through, and spent
a somewhat precarious
period in London, after
which he came to Aus-
tralia and became sec-
retary to J. C. William-
son. Just 30 years ago
he took over the Red
Page, and edited it till
the year after the war.
He returned to the staff
later. He published a
number of volumes,
poems, novels and
plays: there are haunt-
ing lines in the poems,
memorable passages in
the novels and in the
plays a pretty wit. The
most popular was his
Double-Bed Dialogues,
which first appeared
serially in The Bulle-
tin. “S. M. Herald” in
a thumbnail biography
called it “ ‘Honeymoon'
Dialogues.” Arthur
would have loved that.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Ihe Parliamentary experiences of
Edward Wittenoom, who passed out at
82 last week, went back far beyond those
of any other man in Australia. Grand-
son of the first Colonial Chaplain of the
Swan River Settlement, he sat in the old
Legislative Council in the early ’eighties
when he was barely 30. Then he dropped
out for 10 years, devoting himself to
grazing mainly; he and brother Frank
were among the earliest Murchison
squatters. Edward returned to the new
Leg. Council in ’94, and soon became
Minister of Mines under John Forrest.
He held that job during stormy times,
and became known as “Ten-Foot
Ned.” He was acting-Premier during
his chief’s absence at the Diamond
Jubilee celebrations, and a year later he
himself went to London as Agent-
General. He came back to put in nearly
30 years more, with only one break, in
the Leg. Council, of which he became
President. He retired only a couple of
years back.
N. S. Wales lost one of the kindliest
of its S.Ms. when H. H. MacDougal
died unexpectedly at 60. He had the
advantage of knowing the inside of
various prisons, on the staffs of which
he served in his younger days, and the
knowledge of punishment thus gained
reflected itself in his magisterial work.
After he had acted as a magistrate in a
dozen courts, he was appointed Comp-
troller-General of Prisons by George
Fuller in 1924, but the Lang Govern-
ment cancelled the appointment, and he
went back to the Bench.
The Big Brother movement has had a
welcome gift of 3000 acres near Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.) from William Angliss, who
has a fellow-feeling for young immi-
grants. He himself, born in the indus-
trial midland town of Dudley (Worcs.l,
came to Australia at 19, and got his first
job as journeyman butcher in Brisbane.
Two years later he boldly established his
own business with virtually no capital.
He lived to see the concern grow till
politicians talked of it as an “octopus,”
and until he was strong enough to make
alliance with Vesteys. Vesteys are tak-
ing control of his chain of big works in
the golden jubilee year of the establish-
ment of the Angliss firm.
John Dutton, the
S.A. pastoralist, son of
the Henry Dutton who
was the first to cross
(with Murray Aunger)
from Adelaide to Dar-
win by motor-car, and
himself holder of a
flying-mile record, has
linked his name with
Adam Lindsay Gordon
in an odd way. The
Blue Lake at Mount
Gambler is down in an
old crater with precipi-
tous sides, close to the
road which runs over
the mount. A.L.G.
once jumped his horse
over the fence on to
the narrow ledge at the
top of the precipice—•
and back. A Gordon
monument marks the
spot; and, just there,
Dutton’s car skidded
and went through the
stout rails. The drop,
about 300 ft., is very
steep, and finally sheer.
A constable, pluckily
climbing down in the
dark, found Dutton
caught by a tree 50ft.
down, on the brink of
the final plunge. He is
in hospital, but likely
to recover. The car is
under 300 ft. of water.
D. B. Copland, acting Vice-Chancellor
of Melbourne University, has more
honor outside his own country than in.
Young economists doing post-graduate
courses come from overseas to sit at his
feet, and Harvard has now asked him to
visit U.S.A. for the University’s tercen-
tenary celebrations, to read a paper
before an international economic con-
ference and to receive the degree of
Doctor of Letters. Copland is a long,
solemn person who looks as if his
ancestors had been economists since the
Stone Age. He was one of the framers
of the Premiers’ Plan.
Cyril Ruwald, who has become a
Fellow of the Royal Institute of British
Architects, served his articles with the
well-known British firm of Waterhouse,
Lake after the war, in which he was
in the 7th Brigade, Australian Field Artil-
lery. He is among Australia’s first-flight
golfers. He was a member of the N.S.W.
Kirk-Windeyer team which visited Maori-
land in 1934, and gave Jim Ferrier a
close run for the Queensland champion-
ship last year.
John Woolcott-Forbes, depicted here
by Frith, is one of the driving forces in
Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd., and is also
Interested in other financial enterprises
WOOLCOTT-FORBES, of Cranwells.
and in mining companies. Still in the
early thirties, he attended Adelaide High
School, then went jackerooing in West-
ralia. He later managed his family’s
property outside Onslow (W.A.). On the
division of the estate, he moved to the
Eastern States, and took an active part in
putting Cranwells on the map.
“Ted” Cleland, successor on S.A.
Supreme Court Bench to Judge Piper
(never called by his Christian name), is,
like him, an old Prince Alfred boy. He
is of the old Davenport-Cleland wine-
and-oil family. K.C. since 1912, he even
before the war was chosen as a counsel
for S.A. in London in the Privy Council
disputed-boundary case v. Victoria ; and
he refused Judgeships more than once
before retiring to this one at 67.
A face not often seen in the big cities
is that of Robert Macintyre, of the Rob-
inson River (N.T.), who is in the south
in connection with the Barkly Tableland
development scheme. The Macintyres
have been in the Carpentaria country
since the days of the first bunyip, and
the father of the present generation was
one of the finest bushmen the North
produced. He led more than one expedi-
tion in search of lost explorers. And
after more than two generations of ex-
perience the family still have faith in
the Gulf country.
Light Horsemen all over Australia will
miss a dinkum cobber in A. W. F. Mac-
dermott, who died at Narrandera (N.S.W.)
recently. “Old Mac,” as he was called,
though in his early fifties, was one of
the N.S.W. Lancers, commanded by
“Fighting Charlie” Cox. Macdermott
went through the Palestine campaign
with the 6th Light Horse. Prior to the
war he was for some years in Fiji with
the C.S.R., where he was well-known as
an expert marksman and roughrider. His
grandfather was Henry Macdermott, one
of Sydney’s first aldermen and Mayor in
1846, whose challenge to Robert Lowe
(afterwards Lord Sherbrooke) to fight a
duel was an early-Victorian sensation.
Lowe gave the duel a miss, and took his
challenger to court instead.


THE PRESS ARE UNANIMOUS IN THEIR APPROVAL
“SYDNEY MORNING HERALD”—cautious, but very favorable.
“JOBSON’S INVESTMENT DIGEST”: “The proposition has much to
recommend it . . . should prove reasonably satisfactory.”
“DAILY COMMERCIAL NEWS AND SHIPPING LIST”: “No more
encouraging proposition has been offered for public subscription for
many years.”
“SMITH’S WEEKLY”: “Caro Court, Limited, should prove an attractive
proposition.”
“TRUTH”: “Caro Court, Limited, shares are worth enquiry. There is
no sensible reason why a project operating modern and up-to-date
flats should not do well.”
“FARMER & SETTLER”: “An ambitious, but sound, proposition, and the
first opening for the small investor to join with high finanse in equally
high returns.”
CARO COURT LIMITED
Capital: £130,000 in £1 Shares.
70,000 Shares were offered for Public subscription, payable 5/- on application, 5/- on allotment, and two calls of 5/- each at intervals of one month.
ONLY A LIMITED NUMBER OF SHARES ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THIS SAFE, SOUND AND
LUCRATIVE INVESTMENT SOON CLOSING.
The Directors, however, reserve the right to close the issue when a further 10,000 shares are applied for.
Present investors are leaders in Finance, Professional, Business, Company and Public Life of Sydney,
Follow their Example Immediately,
DIRECTORS:
ALD. CHESTER W. DAVIES (retired Builder), 6 South Street, Woollahra.
JOHN EVERETT BEST (Manufacturer), Moore Park Road, Paddington.
EDWARD M. DAVIES (Consulting Engineer), 2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
BANK: SOLICITORS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES. Messrs. ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY.
Head Office: George Street, Sydney. 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. STARKEY & STARKEY, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Grace Building, King Street, Sydney.
ARCHITECTS: Messrs. JOSELAND & GILLING, 8a Castlereagh Street. Sydn—.
.0.
It
win
mb
16
w Of
III
-
s
m
*
1
its
ffl
11
y
I
H
v**
\
w
It is proposed to erect a building containing 276 Flats which for modern conveniences, comfort, general and social services offered will be unequalled
by any other building of its kind in Australia.
The increasing demand for this type of home is so urgent that even the large number of flats included in Caro Court will satisfy but a very small part
of it.
The loss in possible home requirements for the five years ending 1934 was over 39,000 homes. In the past year of intense building activity, this loss
was further increased. There were 12,377 marriages—a record for the Metropolitan area—but only 7808 homes were built for them. An additional loss
of 4500 possible homes without consideration for the growth of population.
A further feature of a building of this size is that it allows the Company to provide more elegant flats at cheaper rentals, owing to the lower cost of
overhead expenditure; affording a greater range of inquiries from which it will be possible to secure a carefully-selected group of permanent tenants.
The lower cost of overhead expenditure can be better appreciated when it is remembered that buildings of 12 flats or less must have managerial and
cleaning staffs. With one manager and a small properly-organised cleaning staff combined with other services, which will be profit producing, the expenses
of Caro Court will be relatively low.
Based on minimum rentals and maximum expenses, the estimated nett profit on the completion and addition of each part is as follows:—•
First part, 14 per cent.; second part, 13 per cent; third part, 15.8 per cent.; fourth part, 15.8 per cent.; and on the whole building, 16.8 per cent, nett profit.
The maintenance of these rates will enhance the value of the shares more than twofold. Allowing for a 10 per cent, loss of rental on the completed
building, the return is over 14 per cent, nett profit; whilst for an extreme estimate of 20 per cent, loss in rentals the return is over 1 1 per cent, nett profit.
Contrast this with a similar loss in rentals sustained on buildings of from 4 to 40 flats, and note what a loss of income will result.
And yet it cannot be said that those men who have been building flats up to the present, and will in the future, are lacking in knowledge of investment
value when it is realised that the money they are expending is what they were level-headed enough to hold to during the past depression.
The site of the flats is at corners of Miller, Blue and William streets, dominates the whole City and its environs, with a view only bounded by the horizon-
in every direction.
Here is a solid investment that is unusually profitable and perfectly safe. It warrants your investment. Make your application now, before the limited
number of shares available for public subscription are taken up.
Prospectuses are available at the Company’s Registered Office, United Chambers, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
APPLICATION FORM.
CARO COURT LIMITED
TO THE SECRETARY,
2 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
I/We hereby apply for shares in the abovenamed Company, upon the terms of
the Company Prospectus, dated 6th February, 1936, which I/we have read, and which is the sole basis of
my/our application for shares.
I/We hereby agree to accept same, or such smaller number of shares as may be allotted to me/us, and
I/we authorise you to register me /us as shareholders of such shares.
I/We enclose herewith £ // —, being 5/- per share on application, and I/we agree to pay 5/- per
share on allotment, and to pay the balance in calls of 5/- per share at intervals of not less than one month.
NAME IN FULL
Address Occupation
Date Ordinary Signature
Shares may be reserved by Telegram pending arrival of application, or telephone 83310.
APPLICATION FOR PROSPECTUS.
Caro Court Limited
Please forward me a copy of your Pros-
pectus and Literature relating to Caro Court,
Limited.
Name in full
Address
’Phone 83310, when prospectus will be
forwarded.


MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
<Bmz-io»s
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
3.
s
o
N
T
D
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- anti 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV £, PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tallies or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time—your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, Shepheard E. Laidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,*
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund,
£ £ £ £ £
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1915 . . 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1925 . . 867,172 339,366 90,190 25,912 411,704
1927 .. 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1928 .. 1,223,364 516,262 126,903 53,351 526 848
1929 . . 1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 . . 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 .. 1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 )
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 ) ,iz ‘
1932 .. 1,316,891 767,756 163,556 - 762 1 „~, 5 , 7
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO ) . ,0 ‘
1933 . . 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 ) 99H
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO ) " ’ ’
1934 .. 1,039,535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 . . 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
The City Mutual, which first began to
write life-assurance contracts in 1879,
took 28 years to build up an annual
premium income of £82,388 ; over the
next 28 years this figure was multiplied
by nearly 14. The society’s success has
been due largely to the bonuses it paid-
for about 15 years after the war it
claimed to pay higher bonuses than any
other life office in the world. These
bonuses have been derived mainly from
(1) high rate of interest earned, (2) a very
favorable mortality experience, and (3) a
satisfactory expense rate. The office
scored heaviest from interest; it used to
assume that its funds would earn 3} p.c.,
whereas, after deducting taxes, the
actual rate realised was approximately 6
p.c. in 1929. This extra-good interest
return was the outcome of a policy of
mortgage and property investment,
which in turn was very helpful in secur-
ing new business at moderate cost.
Then slump, which meant lower returns
from mortgages and Government and
other securities, a heavy growth in taxa-
tion and contraction of property values
affected the margin available for bonuses,
as it did in all life offices. Though the
City Mutual reduced its bonuses on
whole-of-life policies by £1 per cent., the
rates still remain very handsome. For
the three years to the end of 1934 (last
year’s rates are not yet available), they
ranged from £2 17s. 6d. per cent, on con-
tracts five years in force to £4 ss. per
cent, on those 40 years old or more.
Meanwhile, property and other values
have recovered much or all of the ground
lost during the slump, interest rates and
rents are hardening, taxation of life offices
has been reduced, the co. has lowered its
basis of valuation from 3i p.c. to 3| p.c.,
and it has accumulated reserves in excess
of its Life fund amounting to £552,950.
Returns from these extra reserves supple-
ment the earnings of the fund, and there-
fore the amount available for distribu-
tion as bonuses. Thus the outlook for.
policy-holders is becoming still more
attractive.
The increase in the amount of new
business written last year was £655,152
as against £476,146 in ’34:- —
1911. 1934. 1935.
Policies . . . . 3,379 4,737 6,424
Assuring .. .. £599,361 £1,657,050 £2,312,202
First premiums . . 40,406 54,387 74,038
Renewal premiums 79,826 636,701 646,658-
Annuities . . . . 400 24,895 81.082
Interest, etc. . . 30,722 323,552 350,422
The spring in net premium income was
£29,608, an extra £56,187 was gathered
as consideration for annuities, and inter-
est, dividends and rents were up £26,870,
making the growth in total income
£112,665. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes, and striking off £25,700
(up £17,344) for depreciation, £481,937
(up £74,586) was added to the Assur-
ance fund, raising it to £7,644,182. Exes,
took 11.7 p.c. of the year’s total income,
compared with 10.7, 14.9, 16.5 and 15.7
p.c. for the four preceding years. After
deducting taxes (£18,050), the net effec-
tive rate of interest earned on the Assur-
ance fund was 4.59 p.c. as against 4.49
p.c. in IS>34.
During the last few years the manage-
ment has turned its attention from mort-
gages to Government securities and
shares and debentures.
„ . 1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Oovt. securities. . £1,590,179 20.3 £1,782,721 21.4
Mortgages . . 3,293,750 42.0 2,995,216 36.0
Loans on policies 1,125,806 14.4 1,153,931 13.8
Properties 883,267 11.3 1,297,721 15.6
Sha re s and
debentures, e tc. 497,093 6.3 621,469 7.5
Cash and. sundries 449,525 5.7 476,894 5.7
Last year’s surplus earnings and a re-
duction of £298,534 in mortgages (they
accounted for 36 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total as against 51.8 p.c. in 1926)
enabled Government securities to be
increased by £192,542, shares and de-
bentures by £124,376, properties by
£414,454, and cash, etc., by £27,369. The
growth in the property item reflects
erection of the co.’s fine new head-
quarters, now nearing completion, in
Sydney, and the purchase of office free-
holds in Perth and Melbourne. It is in-
tended to purchase suitable properties to
house the Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston
and Brisbane branches as opportunity
offers.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, -Dividends—— N To Re-
Dee., Loss. Pref. . Ord. serves. Deficit.
£££ £ ' £
(8 p.c.)
1927.. 38,754 16,898 Nil 68,961
Profit. Reserves.
1928.. 130,880 24,000 Nil 106,880 37,919
1929.. 249,357 24,000 Nil 225,357 263.276
1930.. 83,595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,066 24,000 Nil 12,066 334,937
(8 p.c.)
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 —> 328,955
(16 p.c.)
1933.. 140,820 ' 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 .. 115,775
(12 p.c.)
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
(8 p.c.)
1935. . 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
The strong and persistent rise in the
price of crude rubber —the average paid
by the co. last year was 42£ p.c. above
the ’34 figure—was mainly responsible for
the sharp contraction of £156,250 in net
earnings, which were less than one-third
of the previous year’s. There was a rise
in the price of other raw materials,
chiefly cotton, too ; and the allowance
for depreciation was £23,664 heavier at
£61,108, making total provision over the
last nine years £570,720, or more than
half the aggregate cost of all fixed assets.
Turnover compared favorably with ’34,
the board says. Certainly replacement
sales were lighter, owing to the scrap-
ping of old vehicles, but the number of
new cars and trucks sold in Australia was
the best since ’29, and the co. secured a
“substantial share” of this initial tyre-
equipment business, while there was a
“gratifying advance” in the use of farm-
implement tyres on farm tractors.
After handing the prefs. their £24,000,
enough remained to show 5.7 p.c. on ord.
capital. So, although the div. was
lowered from 12 p.c. to 8 p.c., reserves
had to be tapped to pay the lower rate,
which called for as much as 12 p.c. did
in ’34. That was because in November,
1934, £250,000 of bonus scrip, one for
two, was handed to the ords., raising paid
capital to £1,050,000, of which the public
is interested in £300,000, carrying a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c.
The ords. are held by the parent, the
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron,
U.S.A., which put up a factory here
about nine years ago owing to pressure
of the tariff. The offshoot has given a
very good account of itself. Having
stepped into ready-made trade connec-
tions developed by an importing agency,
output soon doubled, to the benefit of
costs; more plant, etc., had to be in-
stalled, and the parent found the money
(over half a million at the end of 1930),
since repaid out of earnings. Although
the ords. received no divs. for the first
five years (the money was wanted in
the business), they have been well re-
warded since.
During the last term the co. invested
£197,300 in a new rubber factory at
Buitenzorg, Java. Excluding this, but
including stocks, the contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£613,385)
was £174,203:
1930. 1934. 1935.
Pref. capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital . . . . 500,000 750,000 750,000
Owing parent co. . . 549,420 4,978 92,532
Other liabilities . . 111,942 139,323 99,403
Freeholds, plant, etc... 811,437 517,188 476,843
Stocks 443,464 566,443 537,243
Book debts . . . . 226,756 217,306 200,025
Cash, etc 314,575 148,140 68,052
Investments .. .. 197,300
To meet the cost of the new investment
and clip £39,920 off the amount coming
to sundry’ creditors, the co. leant upon
the parent for an extra £87,554, reduced
the book value of fixed assets by £40,345
net, stocks by £29,200, book debts by
£17,281, and cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £BO,OBB.
Prospects are for a much better show-
ing at next balance. Last year’s net
earnings more than 2\ times covered the
pref. div. At 31s. 9d. the prefs. return
5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is £4 ss. lOd. in net tangibles.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928. .21,324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,324 2,276
Added Intangibles, £32 .. ~ 2,308
Dec., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 .. .. 9,114
1929.. 39.590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added Intangibles, £59 .. . 38.595
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
Added Intangibles, £9O .. .. 47,486
1931.. 10,429 10 p.c. Nil= 8,005 2,424 49,910
Added Intangibles,, £8 .. •.. 49,902
1932. .14,830 14.4 p.c. Nil = 12,030 2,800 52,702
Added Intangibles, £64 .. .. 52,638
1933. .24,578 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. = 21,250 2,328 55,966
1934.. 32.331 7\ „ 7} „ ~ 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29.824 7f „ 7f „ ~ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Pref. div. subject 224 p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
*Six months.
It is to increased efficiency that the Aus-
tralian manufacturer has to look for a
reduction in costs that will enable him
to win profits in highly-competitive
markets. With the worst of the troubles
arising from slump and domestic dif-
ferences out of the way, and with dis-
criminating State industrial legislation re-
placed by a Federal award, this 14-year-
old is again giving a good account of
itself. Improved production methods
and savings in selling and administra-
tion and distribution charges allowed it
to lower selling prices, while the open-
ing of selling branches in Melbourne
and Brisbane helped to liven turnover.'
As the pressure of stocks upon the
market eased and conditions generally
improved, net earnings responded, and
the prefs.’ slate was cleaned at the end
of 1933, when, after a three years’ dry
spell, the ords. got back into the picture,
and they have remained there.
Last year seasonal conditions were un-
favorable, and competition got more of
an edge on it. After deducting a small
but unspecified loss in connection with
the Maoriland section of the business,
gross earnings (£160,735) were down
£llB. Exes. (£131,083, including pro-
vision for taxation, etc.) were £2388
heavier. Allowing for minor reserve
adjustments, the net result was £2507
lighter at 11.9 p.c. on capital (pref. and
ord. combined), and the div. was kept at
an all-round 7| p.c. While the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act remains in
force, the prefs. are entitled to advance
with the ords. from p.c. to 10 p.c.,
their original contract rate.
To provide for further expansion of
the business, including modernisation of
existing plant and installation of new
machinery, 58,065 new £1 ords. were
issued shortly before the close of
accounts; there was another £45,484 to
come from this source when the books
were ruled off:
1929. 1931. 1934. 1935.
£ £ £ £
Old. capital ) , J 166,667 166,667 181,183
Pref. capital ) 83,333 83,333 83,333
Overdraft . . 43,171 59,070 27,483 28,1)77
Creditors . . 94,940 28,095 40,163 48,650
Freeholds . . 40,472 41,600 45,626 46,980
Plant.. .. 135,934 140,530 142,732 139,044
Stocks . . 180,527 128,228 127,689 151,824
Debtors . . 85,239 95,371 97,770 94,415
Cash, etc. . . 1,352 1,691 2,722 2,891
Investments . . • —.— 10,919
Fearing an interruption of supplies
through possible disturbances in Europe,
the co. built Up its stocks of raw
materials from overseas, hence the spring
of £24,135 in the stocks item. During
the year the Maoriland section of the
business was converted into a co., in
which the parent’s holding figures at
£10,919. Excluding this, but including
stocks, the more or less liquid surplus
(£310,847) was £7580 stronger than at
the previous balance.
The full benefits of the new plant to
be installed will not be felt until 1937,
the board says. When all the money on
the new shares is in, paid capital will be
£308,065, on which 7| p.c. will call for
£5699 less than was netted last year.
The market prices the prefs. at 275. 9d.
and the ords. at 265. 4d., at' which figures
the return is 5.6 p.c. and 5.8 p.c. respec-
tively on a 7£ p.c. div. basis.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 9,623 7i p.c. = 9000 623 52,674
1926.. 9.864 8 „ „ 9600 264 52,938
1927.. 11,749 8 „ „ 9600 2149 55,087
1928.. 10,365 8 „ ~ 9600 765 55,852
1929.. 7,181 6 ~ „ 7200 55,833
1930.. 5,276 3 „ „ 3600 1676 57,509
1931.. 6,253 54 „ „ 6600 57,162
1932.. 6,942 5 ~ ~ 6000 942 58,104
1933.. 7,469 6 ~ „ 7200 269 58,373
1934.. 8,559 7 „ „ 8400 159 58,532
1935. . 7,920 64 ~ „ 7800 120 58,652
The outlook for shareholders changed
in 1925, when the co. (it used to be the
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power
Co.) began to supply and instal electric
lifts. Just as it began to look like an 8 p.c.
proposition, slump intervened ; still, main-
tenance and repair work kept the pot
boiling, a firm hold was maintained upon
exes., and divs. continued to flow. Then
prospects were enhanced by the revival
in building, by purchase of the goodwill
of the lift business formerly carried on
by Major, Stevens and'Coates, and by
acquisition of the Commonwealth agency
for the Express Lift Co., London.
The agency, which placed the co. in a
position to supply all the latest types of
high-speed electric lifts and moving
stairways, was mainly responsible for
the sharp spring of £41,792 in last year’s
gross earnings:
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1920. . £36,441 £25,938 1931.. £33,997 £27,744
1924.. 41,158 31,666 1932.. 39,025 32,083
1926.. 47,279 37,415 1933.. 36,306 28,837
1928.. 61,995 51,629 1934.. 46,261 37,702
1930.. 47,875 42,598 1935.. 88,054 80,134
Exes., however, took all the increase and
£640 besides, leaving the net result at
7.4 p.c. on capital as against 7.7, 6.2, 5.7,
5.2, 4.3, 5.9, 8.6 and 9.7 p.c. back to 1927.
Half a point was chipped off the div.,
making it 6| p.c., the final being at the
rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
The market, which notes that net earn-
ings have received no benefit from the
larger trading, prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 235. 9d. as against 265. 3d. a
year ago. At the lower figure the return
is 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
Country as well as City Interests.
1 nvestments carry greatest possible security.
The Society that imposes no restrictions on aeroplane travel.
Yearly Bonus additions to all participating policies.
M utual —owned and controlled by the Policy-holders,
u ndoubtedly the most Liberal and Progressive Life Office.
The Office to assure with for Bigger Bonuses,
u nique advantages by assuring with the City Mutual Life.
A ustralia’s Security is the City Mutual Policy-holders’ Security.
Liberality to Members unexcelled.
Lowest Expense Rate, 10.7% —1934.
I nvestment yield the greatest available.
Free Accident Conditions on all Policies with Death Risk.
Empire’s Soundest and Best Assurance Institution.
Strongest Reserves of any Society in the Empire.
Only one Board of Directors in the whole of Australia.
Ca'eful selection of Risks, Low Mortality, High Interest Yield,
build Bonuses.
I nvestment in Life Assurance never depreciates.
Efficient and Economical Management
T he Millionaire Society that operates only in the Commonwealth.
Y oung Australians will positively secure their future by
becoming Policy-holders of this Society.
1
:
I
■
■I
: :
u
11 Hi
■
!i
e
: ■
}! 1
m
m
: r....
m
•i
s
y
sii i
£ife ytwuranee the Balance Wheel of Life
The one Investment that did not depreciate during the World-wide Depression
Life Assurance is the only Business Certainty
In October, 1934, a Member, 23 next
birthday, effected a Policy on his life for
£3OOO, and paid a quarter’s premium of
£l5/15/-.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for 1934
was £B6/5/-!
Full particulars will be forwarded on
application.
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE OR
BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORTGAGE
ASSURE WITH
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
Wm. BENNETT, Managing Director


G3BON
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL!
i
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN-, N.T.: Federal fiovernment Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & O. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: .T. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
“GILT-EDGED" INSURANCE
and
MELBOURNE INVESTORS’ GUIDE
—SEE PAGE 38.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boiler?
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our 1935 General
Catalogue.— Advt.
net' tangible cover per £1 of paid capi-
tal is 295. 9d., mainly in fixed assets.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1932. 1934. 1935.
Capital £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . . . 10,417 15,598 35,021
Mains and plant . . 135,703 136,838 136,556
Freeholds . . . . 35,197 35,231 35,231
Leaseholds .. . . 1,149 1,149 1,149
Stock 9,136 12,978 27,568
Debtors 8,678 11,204 14,779
Cash, investments, etc. 2,309 2,290 2,290
The year’s brisker trading is reflected in
a growth of £14,590 in stocks and £3575
in book debts. To meet the outlay the
co. added £7281 to the overdraft
(£18,195) and £12,142 to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors (£16,826). The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£9616) was £1258.
Bundi Tin Dredging’s operations to
Dec. 31 last are disappointing. The co.
pulled out of Malaya at a loss of £44,726,
and transferred its No. 2 Werf Conrad
dredge, with a rated capacity of 120,000
c.y. monthly, to a 471-acre claim which
it had taken up near Greymouth, on the
west coast of Maoriland’s South Island.
Of this area 76.8 acres is estimated on
bore results to contain 2,955,908 c.y.,
averaging 4.5 gr. gold. The dredge began
digging on June 13 last. At Dec. 31 it
had treated 518,500 c.y. for 22420 z. llgr.
gold bullion, an average of 2.07 gr. per
yard, or 8.73 d. Working costs were
6.44 d., and the Government export duty
amounted to 0.65 d. Working profit was
thus 1..64d. per yard, or £3023, of which
£823 was swallowed in head office exes.,
leaving £2199 net. Paid capital is
£106,238 in 85,000 shares of 255. each.
Since the close of accounts the dredge
has turned over 163,400 c.y. for 5850 z.
Bdwt. 6gr. gold, an average of 1.72 gr.
per yard. The 200-acre flat on which the
dredge is working is outside the bored
area. Owing to the hard nature of the
ground, wear and tear has been severe.
To reduce costs it is intended to con-
vert the dredge from steam to electric
power when the latter becomes available
in about 18 months’ time. Meanwhile,
the machine will dig its way toward
Chinaman’s-terrace, where there is some
60 acres carrying “highly-payable values.”
On the basis of recent recoveries and
costs, and a turnover of 120,000 c.y. per
month, G. E. Pool, local director, figures
a monthly working profit of £1458, equal
to £17,496 p.a. The co. has taken a
prospecting license over further areas on
the New River, .where 600 acres of pay-
dirt are expected to be proved.
* * * *
W. L. Jack, chairman of Misima Gold
Reefs, says Oroville, London, intends to
exercise its option over the co.’s pro-
perty on Misima Island, Papua. If it
does, the intention is to form a new co.
in Australia with a nominal capital of
£lOO,OOO in £1 shares, of which 20,000
paids will go to Misima Gold Reefs
and 40,000 paids to Oroville, which has
spent £20,000 or more testing the pro-
perty and which will underwrite the public
issue of 40,000 contribs. J. A. Miller,
owner of two of the leases, will receive
£l5OO cash from Oroville. The main
lode, 20ft. wide, has been proved for
a considerable length ; and so have two
smaller parallel lodes. There is approxi-
mately 46,000 tons of s.Bdwt. ore ready
for extraction.
*l®
Reporting on Tavua Gold Develop-
ment’s holding on the Tavua field (Fiji),
Dr. Loftus Hills says trenching and shal-
low shaft-sinking on the Homeward
Bound area disclosed a lode 1200 ft. in
length, showing good surface values. The
first diamond drill showed values under
4|dwt. from 20ft. to 40ft. ; at 300 ft. it
entered ore. He considers that
the most important gold-bearing zone
can be expected at a depth of 750 ft. or
thereabouts. Obviously a lot more work
needs to be done before any reliable idea
can be formed as to the value of the
property.
* * ■ h: *
The 2,000,000 tons of old dump
material at Charters Towers (Q.)
recently acquired under working license
jointly by Linden (W.A.) Gold and
Morobe Alluvials is reported to
average I.sdwt. On this basis, and with
a 90 p.c. recovery and gold at £8 15s.
an ounce, the material is worth 11s.
per ton. Costs are not expected to ex-
ceed 35., leaving a profit of about Bs.
per ton. The two cos. also hold an
option over other dumps containing
about 1,000,000 tons, sampling of which
is not yet completed.
* * * *
A. G. M. Davis, who used to be
assayer for the old Occidental Co.,
Cobar (N.S.W.), writes:
The old co. had three rather rich but small
veins, known as Bowman’s, Elkin’s and John-
son’s, which were used as sweeteners. When
these had been worked out, crushings fell to
5.62dwt., which made the mine unpayable.
As the battery, concentrating and cyaniding
recovery was 90 p.c., it will be seen that the
worth of the ore was not more than 61dwt.
To make doubly sure, we crushed 3000 tons
of it, with the result that the directors de-
cided to close down. That was in 1918. The
ore-body is located at the 740 ft. level in the
sulphide zone ; experience was that values
here decreased with depth.
The old co.’s costs were never more than
30s. per ton, and wages were actually higher
than they are to-day. The new co.’s costs,
which were not expected to exceed 255. per
ton, have reached 38s. Id. The old residues,
estimated at 1,000,000 tons, represent the
whole of the crushings of the Occidental, which
averaged 9dwt. The old co.’s plant, which
consisted of a 60-head stamper battery, 12
Wilfley tables and cyanide equipment operated
by air agitation and a Moore’s filter, made a
90 p.c. recovery, as already stated. Thus the
residues contain not more than ldwt., which
is unlikely to be profitable.
* * * *
The new gold find at Gulgong
(N.S.W.) is on private property 3 } miles
south of the township and just below
the junction of Magpie and Spring-
field leads, which were prolific producers
in the early days. The discovery was
made by C. Bennett and party on Feb-
ruary 17, and within 10 days 560 z. of
fairly coarse gold was recovered, the
largest slug weighing nearly 4oz. The
depth of sinking ranges from 14ft. to
20ft., and the wash is about 9in. thick.
Leo J. Jones, Senior Government Geolo-
gical Surveyor, says the find may be in
the nature of a pocket, or the lead may
prove profitable for several chains down-
stream ; the land traversed by the lead
has been scoured under “Authority to
enter.”
**■ * *
Developments at the 200 ft. level at
Marvel Loch (W.A.) are encouraging.
Here crosscuts from each of the three
main shafts, spaced along the main lode
for about 2000 ft., have each encountered
ore which assays a little better than the
average for the mine (5.2dwt.). More-
over, the lode continues downward at the
northern end. It suggests the existence of
a lot more payable feed for the mill than
the 250,000 tons of ore already measured
up. For the most part, the measured
reserves consist of oxidised, free-milling
ore which is not expected to present any
treatment difficulties. The mill started
up on Feb. 25.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.), which cele-
brated its 37th birthday not long ago,
is being vigorously prospected at depth.
The deepest producing level is the twenty-
seventh (2840 ft. vertical), but the shaft
has been taken down to the twenty-
eighth, where drives are being extended
in good ore from two winzes. The co.
has nearly five years’ supply of ore in
sight at the present rate of extraction.
The January return was the biggest for
many years.
* * * *
Westralia will shortly have three addi-
tions to its list of prominent gold-pro-
ducers. Sand Queen, at Comet Vale,
one of De Bernales’s Commonwealth
Mining and Finance group, is having a
trial run, and Yellowdine has its mill
almost completed, while Gold Fields Aus-
tralian Development, which has a sub-
stantial interest in Yellowdine, is billed
to begin treatment on its Wiluna mines
within the next month or two. Ore from
the latter property is to be smelted owing
to its arsenical and antimonial contents.
* * * *
At North Kalgurli United, another of
De Bernales’s Westralian group, prospect-
ing on Nos. 2 and 3 levels is proceeding,
with encouraging results. A parcel of 255
tons has been sent to South Kalgurli’s
mill for treatment. The return from this
should give a fair idea of the average
grade of ore in the mine.
* * * *
Additions to the North Kalgurli-
Boulder Perseverance ore-treatment plant
are being hurried, which means that both
mines will soon be turning out more gold.
North Kalgurli is steadily adding to its
ore reserves, which now aggregate well
over half a million tons. Boulder Per-
severance has little to say about its ore
resources, but from all accounts their
shadow isn’t growing less.
* * * *
Edna May (W.A.) has repaired its big
pump, and now hopes to cope with the
water trouble, which has been a source
of worry and heavy expense for some
time. After the co. succeeds in un-
watering the mine, it will take months
to clean up the workings, and months
more before sufficient ore can be made
available to justify a start with gold pro-
duction.
* * * *
C. de Bernales (London director),
A. J. Walkley (Adelaide director) and
R. Hamilton (Westralian director), of
Gt. Boulder, discussed with general-
manager E. Williams on the mine the
other day the future working policy of
the co. Their conclusions will go be-
fore the London board next month.
Williams is voluntarily retiring from the
management in June.
* * * *
Princess Royal (W.A.), which operated
at Westonia for many years and which,
since reconstruction in 1931, has un-
successfully tried to back winners at
Ora Banda, Kunanalling and Bullfinch,
has now taken out a ticket on the Rising
Sun lease on the Yilgarn field. There
is a three-head battery on the property,
and crushings to date are reported to
have been satisfactory.
* * * *
The Mt. Jackson North, Arrow Gold
Mining, Havelock Option, Mining and
Finance and New Paringa Junction cos.
are talking of pooling their interests.
If they do, a new co., Grenfell Gold
(W.A.), Ltd., with a capital of £25,000
in 500,000 shares, will be formed. IDis-
tribution of scrip in the new co. will
depend on the market value of shares in
the old cos. at March 14.
sH 4= * *
Systematic testing by drilling of the
Craigiemore and British Flag, Laverton
(W.A.), has not been encouraging, so
Craigiemore Development, a Melbourne
concern, is to be wound up voluntarily.
It is expected that shareholders will re-
ceive about 3s. 6d. per £2-paid share.
Some of the mining propositions let
loose during the boom period are
coming to roost with a sting in their tail.
* * * *
Shareholders in Westralia Renown,
Morgans (W.A.), agreed to the board’s
proposal to raise £20,000, less cost of
underwriting, by a sixpenny call. Chair-
man Hamer blamed defects of plant, a
common complaint at the moment, and
delay in procuring an adequate water
supply for lateness in ore production and
consequent exhaustion of funds. He
opined that future prospects were hope-
ful ; the market is not inclined to that
view.
* * * *
Ingliston Consols Extended, Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), which Sydney nibbled at,
has added the neighboring Ingliston
Alberts to its assets at a cost of £21,000.
The new property is fairly well equipped,
and is said to have a fair quantity of ore
in sight.
* * * *
Last Chance, Kanowna (W.A.), has
probably had its last chance. A London
co. took some gold out of it in the early
days, and then left. No one seemed game
enough to begin where the previous
owner gave up until a year or two ago,
when the Kangaroo Co., of Adelaide, did
some pumping and sampling, and then
decided to do no more. An option sub-
sequently taken by Gold Fields Australian
Development has now been abandoned
because “values in the bottom were dis-
appointing.”
* * * *
The Livesey Co., floated in the hey-
day of Patrick Whelan’s attempt to locate
Lasseter’s lost reef, has tested the Lalla
Rookh and other mines in W.A. without
success. Last year it bought an interest
in Weslralia Properties, Ltd., in which
Gold Fields Australian Development has
also taken shares. Livesey has £790 in
the till.
* # * *
Two of many instances of the way
things are done in the West. Western
Queen, with money to burn, bought an
old plant and sent it to the mine. De-
lays in getting a continuous run caused
funds to become exhausted and in-
debtedness to be incurred. Now share-
holders are asked to take up 6000 £1
debentures to enable the co. to “get to
a profit-earning stage.” Golden Valley
raised £60,000 and gave £13,000 cash
for an old waterlogged hole in the
ground which someone said was worth
something at depth. It proved to be
worthless.
* * * *
Aggregate ore reserves of Westralian
goldmines are now roughly estimated at
7,000,000 tons, varying in value from
265. to 365., with gold at 84s. an ounce.
Over 5,000,000 tons is in two mines,
Lake View (3,035,900 tons) and Wiluna
(2,040,000 tons). Others which figure
high up on the list are Sons of Gwalia
(600,000 tons), North Kalgurli (about
500,000 tons), Great Boulder (356,370
tons) and Lancefield and Triton (each
300,000 tons).
* * * *
From London: Kalgoorlie miners’ de-
mand for 35 hours a week underground,
with 40 hours on the surface, instead of
the present 44 hours for both, is not mak-
ing the mineowners’ flesh creep. Follow-
ing an application to the Court in Oct..
1934, shorter hours and higher wages were
granted to surface workers and an in-
crease in wages to underground men. In
January last year a six weeks’ dispute
arose over the spread of the working
hours. Under pressure from the Westra-
lian Government the cos. agreed to accept
the result of a secret ballot of miners;
this resulted in introduction of a 44-hour
week.
* * * *
North-West Gold Mining, N.L., has
thrown in the towel at Erlistoun, Laver-
ton (W.A.). Low assay values at 50ft.
were the knockout.
* * * *
Accounts of Freney Oil Co. (W.A.)
still show all going out and nothing
coming in. Expenditure for the De-
cember half of 1935 amounted to £3197,
of which £312 represented salaries, £275
directors’ fees and £297 geological
survey. In his latest interim survey Dr.
Wade says that about one-third of the
co.’s Kimberley areas (90,000 square
miles) is terrain where oil might be
expected. He is off to Canberra shortly
to complete his work with the assistance
of the Commonwealth Government’s
technical staff.


Today's Speeds and Braking
demand a Tyre with - - - -
PLIES OF
77WW
[EXCLUSIVE TO GOODYEAR]
THE FAMOUS
ALL-WEATHER
TREAD
[ EXCLUSIVE TO G 0 ODYEAR j
In spite of the grinding punishment
dealt out by to-day's lightning
acceleration, sustained speeds and
merciless braking, the "G-3" Tyre is
scoring mileages never before
approached.
This is because the amazing
E-L-A-S-T-I-C-I-T-Y of Supertwist Cord
(exclusive to Goodyear) gives the
Goodyear Carcass unsurpassed dur-
ability. Supertwist stretches and re-
covers, without breaking, up to 61%
further than cords used in ordinary
tyres.
Supertwist is the reason why the
Goodyear Carcass gives maximum
blowout protection.
Supertwist is the reason why the
Goodyear Carcass can support the
extra heavy "G-3" tread right to the
last mile of its 43% (and more) longer
non-skid mileage.
mad e IN AUSTRAL I A


ABORIGINALITIES
“Fer. Nat.”: One of my outstanding
experiences as a field naturalist was
when, for a lark, I set
a batch of turtles’ eggs
under a broody Orping-
ton hen that had be-
come a nuisance with
her mooning about the
camp. I never thought
of anything but keeping
the hen quiet, and my
surprise equalled that
of my colleagues when
she hatched the lot.
Luckily they were all in
a netted yard we kept
for small, harmless
mammals, and were
some distance from the
sea. The little turtles
took readily to the hen,
and we kept them
going with big dishes
of seawater, with
scraps of lettuce and
any other greens like
seaweed we could get.
The crash came when
we took the party
down to the beach.
The turtlets made one
dive for the water, as
they do on breaking
out of their nest. We
thought the old hen
would go mad. She
ran up and down the water weeping for
her children until her voice went. But
towards Sundown, to our amazement,
most of the brood crept up the beach
after a day in the water, and sheltered
under their foster mother. This became
a regular routine, but one by one those
that returned became fewer. Finally,
none came at all, and the hen abandoned
herself to hopeless melancholia. Time
passed, during which the hen grew thinner
and thinner, wandering always along the
edge of the surges looking for the family
that never returned. “Never,” did I say?
That was wrong. One evening, walking
on the beach, we came on a most touch-
ing scene. Held tight in the embracing
flipper of a huge turtle, the only one of
the brood who had returned to home
and the old mother, was our hen. Emaci-
ated as she was with grief and self-denial,
the return of the prodigal seemed to have
given her a new lease of life. Calling
our attention to her companion \Yith a
glance of a filming eye and with a feeble
cluck that seemed to say “Didn’ I tell
y’?” she expired in the flippers of her
foster child. As leader of the expedition
—an American one —I forwarded a full
report of the extraordinary happening.
The reply was to order me home at once
and for the whole party to leave the
vicinity of Mackay (N.Q.), where our
base had been established for some time.
* * * *
“Bryan”: I refereed a fight between
an inch-long caterpillar and a small black
ant, my job being to stop the ant’s com-
rades from lending a hand. The ant was
much too quick for his bulky opponent
at first, darting in smartly and biting
when and where he could. The cater-
pillar wasn’t exactly slow either, and its
somersaults and cartwheels would have
done credit to a trapeze artist. The ant
had the better of it for a long time, but,
like most hit-and-run artists, he did it
once too often and the ’pillar’s jaws
broke his back. The duel over, the victor
went serenely on his way while the ants
gathered quickly around the vanquished
gladiator.
* * * *
“Spud”: The seal is commonly re-
garded as a rather docile creature, but
when occasion demands it can put up
a decent scrap against more fero-
cious denizens of the deep. Witnessed a
thrilling battle between an outsize in
seals and a monstrous stingray off Rott-
nest Island (W.A.). They battled for half
an hour, but the end came when the
seal hurled the ’ray clean out of the
water, getting one home on a vital spot
as it flopped back. Then the meal began.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Bush eyesight (B.
12/2/’36)? I’ve had a school with 70 p.c.
of pupils suffering from sandy blight and
conjunctivitis in various forms, with
officialdom inclining to the opinion that
intermarriage and feeble-mindedness must
be common in the district! Eye-
strain attacks even coastal Australians.
Look at the crow’s-feet under the eyes of
city girls (late-party addicts excepted).
“The 0.D.”: Good, honest sunlight
never hurt anybody’s eyes; whether
shining on claypans or open downs.
We can leave snowblindness out of
this. Your bushman’s eyes are so
“Jones, I wish you wouldn't smoke while I'm busy with my food."
used to the sun that it has no effect,
especially as his eyes are usually in heavy
shade under a wide hat brim. And look-
ing at or through mirages is no strain.
Sand and salt winds in a dry year will
work that terrible scourge sandy blight,
particularly on children. “T. Tywire”
talks like a Pitt-street bushman who has
gone from the bright, artificial light of
the city to the open with eyes already
weakened. A bushman coming into office
life from outback feels the change quickly
and distressingly with his eyes. Electric
light plays Hades with eyes hardened to
sun glare, wind and distance.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Inspired, possibly, by
recent dramatic feats of insects and
spiders, Queensland snakes are getting
back into the headlines. A North Coast
farmer discovered a carpet-snake prepar-
ing to swallow one of his chickens. He
was just too late to get a stick before the
marauder escaped into the scrub. A re-
sourceful man, he put the dead chicken
on a stout fish hook attached to a heavy
line, and tied the end to a tin for signal-
ling purposes. In an hour he got a bite
from eight feet of carpet-snake, which
was duly dispatched. The idea may have
come from the experience of a neighbor,
a short while before, whose baby had
been given a ball of wool to play with on
the verandah, the loose end of the wool
tied to a post. A 7ft. carpet-snake swal-
lowed the ball —the baby had luckily got
tired of the toy meanwhile —and thereby
provided a literal clue, which led to its
own demise.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Ryan stopped his horse
and dray in front of the pub. At the
third drink he covered the pound
note placed on the bar to say that he
couldn’t lift the dray off the ground.
“Climb aboard,” Ryan roared to the seven
lubricated navvies leaning on the coun-
ter. They clambered in, and he got under
on the broad of his back. Then, placing
his two feet against the axle-bed, he
shoved the dray up about 10 inches off
the ground. An hour later when the
pub closed he drove away, mournfully
singing a sad ditty which began:
Here’s to the honest servant girl, God
defend her!
* * * *
“Fisher”: Old Bob went on the bust
after three months’ solitary at a boundary
hut. At the end of a week’s jag he dis-
appeared, leaving a note to the effect
that he was tired of life. All available
hands wasted a day before finding him
asleep near a waterhole, suicidal inten-
tions forgotten. The culprit was paraded
before the manager. Sentence was
brief: “Run the car round and take him
into hospital.” The condemned’s appeals
for mercy went unheard, and judgment
was executed —a week in bed. That was
far greater punishment than a stretch in
the cooler.
* * * *
“Fernie”: In midsummer masses of
beautiful blue flowers grow along both
sides of the road through Fernhill (Vic.).
They are the naturalised descendants of
a crop of chicory grown by a Danish
settler about 70 years ago. The plant
escaped, and, thanks to its fibrous-root
system —more tenacious than sorrel —
flourished in the rich chocolate soil. Un-
checked on the roads, and ever ready to
creep back into cultivated fields, it
has never spread further than a few
chains from its place of origin.
* * * *
“Mandurah”: That experiment of
“deep-sea” Beebe in testing the shark’s
sense of smell (B. 22 /1 / ’36) told only
what was already well known. The
human animal possesses only a few square
inches of odor-detecting diaphragm,
whereas the shark carries about 14 sq. ft.,
all packed away in its snout. That’s
what makes the sea lawyer’s nose his
most vulnerable part, where the South
Sea diver punches him a good one when
he gets too fresh, and where the stingray
gets him with that spike when he is try-
ing on for a cheap meal. Now the real
mystery, which Beebe didn’t solve, is how
the smell manages to travel through a
dense medium like water in so short a
time. In this upper air we have the
vagrant breeze, but there couldn’t have
even been a current in that 50ft. tank.
“Salmon Gums”: A peculiar feature
of the lake country east of Laverton
(W.A.): of a chain of lakes stretch-
ing for miles, only one may be drinkable,
the others being too brackish for horses.
Travelling across difficult country my
mate and I, aware of this peculiarity,
tried each successive lake. Scooping
some water from the top, I pronounced
it doubtful, but drinkable. My mate
pushed on into the centre and returned
with a billyful—altogether different.
Fresh water is lighter than salt or brack-
ish, and consequently is at the surface ;
but why should the centre of a volume
of water be fresher?
* * * *
“Notaden”: I hate to appear as a
scandalmonger, but that blue wren (B.
19/2/’36) certainly didn’t tell “M.L.C.”
the truth about his multi-marriedness.
The “contemptuous flick of his impu-
dent tail” with which he terminated the
outrageous tarradiddle was meant for the
innocent soul who swallowed such a
yarn. I know what I know, and I’ve seen
what I’ve seen, and the only decent in-
terpretation of which the matter is
capable, other than honest polygamy, is
that any paternal relation is of the nature,
substance and quality of that known in
the U.S.A. as “sugar-daddy.” At least,
I hope so. Of course, there is the possi-
bility that the enervating climate of S.Q.,
where my polygamist lives, loosens the
moral fibre of those subjected to it —
Canberra seems to think so. But I fear
that “M.L.C.” has been deluded by a
sheik.
* * * *
“Drift”: Let “Grub” (B. 22/1/’36)
have no illusions about the bandicoot’s
welcome in Queensland canefields.
“Bandy” is a proven carrier of Weil’s
disease —he is the first native so con-
victed. That alone calls for his exter-
mination.
* * * *
“Nimau”: A Pukekohe (M.L.) butcher
came across something new in bullocks’
hearts —one with four
inches of wire through
it. Gristly growths about
the size of a golf ball
surrounded the wire
where it protruded on
either side. Seemingly
it had caused no incon-
venience, for the animal
was in excellent nick
when killed. The wire
was of the gauge com-
monly used for the bind-
ing of bales of hay.
* * *
“Yah Khan”: I sus-
pect that “Williami’s”
insect which back-
stepped and stabbed
with his proboscis (B.
5/2 / ’36) must have been
a mosquito-hornet cross
to have its sting at the
wrong end. Spider-hunt-
ing hornets always chase
their game down the
burrow and paralyse it
by a sting from the rear.
Spiders in general are in
deadly fear of this
variety of hornet and
never show fight; the
deadly trapdoor is no
exception. It is a com-
mon sight in localities
where funnel-web spiders
are numerous to see a
hornet “snigging” a para-
lysed aranece fully ten times his size
towards the tucker cache. But I have yet
to see a hornet successfully tackle a red-
backed spider.
* * * *
“Win”: Like “S.M.’s” birds (B.
5/2/’36), my dogs or horses are not
grammarians, but they know their
sounds. Jingle his chain and Meggs
slinks off; jingle a bridle-bit and he
bounds away to find my saddle horse.
When ploughing I call “last time round."
Eight heads go up, 16 ears forward, and
I do the last round in 10 minutes instead
of 15.
* * * *
“Torquata”: Apparently Mailee fowl
return to their natural incubators to re-
lease their chicks, for a western N.S.W.
observer recently wire-netted a mound
which showed signs of having been freshly
worked. Returning a few days later he
found the old birds under the netting
scratching frantically fo unearth the eggs,
some of which were buried to a depth
of 18 inches. He dug up an egg which
was chipped, and released the chick,
which, within a day, was fully fledged
and able to fly. Owing to the dry spring
the nesting had been postponed till the
arrival of suitable rain, for the nest must
be filled with wet leaves and vegetation
to generate sufficient heat for the eggs.
DISHES.
They’re fine girls, the boss’s daughters-
Drive and shoot and swim and ride;
Molly musters like a veteran,
Peggy’s handy every side.
Nancy is the youngest of them;
It’s of her I mostly think
When I see her in the evening
Washing dishes at the sink.
Twenty-one years old is Nancy,
Dusky hair and eyes of blue;
Keeps the house and does the cooking,
Smiles at me, the jackeroo.
I go tongue-tied when I see her,
With her little fingers pink,
Standing underneath the lamplight,
Washing dishes at the sink.
Most nights when the dark is falling
I just take a look around
Somewhere near the kitchen window
Where I know she’s to be found;
Even if she’s closed the shutters
I can see her through the chink
Looking sort of sweet and solemn,
Washing dishes at the sink.
Molly’s eyes are brown and impish,
Peggy’s hair is sunlit gold;
Both of them can dance like fairies;
Molly sings a treat, I’m told.
But my fancy flies to Nancy
When I hear the crockery clink —
Nancy, small and kind and gentle,
Washing dishes at the sink.
That’s the time I see a cottage,
Walls of white and roof of red,
Marigolds and stocks and roses
Glowing in a garden bed;
And beside a little window
Nancy standing, hands all pink,
With a chap (that’s me) beside her
Wiping dishes at the sink.
N.S.W.
TROY.


“O. W. Waireki”: The new hand was
becoming weary of wood-chopping, and
when dad took a look at the sun the lad
hopefully asked: “What’s th’ clock say?”
Dad frowned. “We don’t take any notice
of th’ clock,” he snapped. “We go by th’
calendar.”
* * * *
‘Duckbill”: Telepathy or coincidence?
Was awakened in my bush humpy by a
terrific sting on the temple. Struck a
light and found a large scorpion which
I had evidently smacked in my sleep as
"Wait till I get a good edge on, Alf, an then We'll
have a look at ’er.”
he crawled over my face. Looked at
the watch ; exactly two o’clock. Spent
the next three torrid hours heating water
and fomenting a badly swollen face and
neck. That morning the chap on the
next claim came over. “That’s peculiar,”
he said. “I dreamt I was stung by a
scorpion last night. The pain was so
realistic it woke me up.” “What time?”
I asked. “Just two o’clock,” he replied.
We are not in usual scorpion country.
Neither of us had ever seen one near
the camps, and we had never discussed
them. By the way, does any Abo. ,
scientist know a remedy for the sting?
* * * *
“Double Express”: Wild beasts that
turn man-eaters are among the curiosi-
ties of nature. They
are rare, and this is
just as well, for if the
average carnivore
found out what an
easy mark man is,
even when armed,
homo sapiens would
have a much worse
time than he already
experiences from taxa-
tion commissioners.
Tigers, lions and
leopards in that order
are the worst
offenders, and once
they take to the new
diet abandon all
others for it —it is so
ridiculously easy to
get. These reflections
are due to reading a
cabled account of a
hyena which is ter-
rorising an Indian
district. Taking chil-
dren from huts at
night is his hobby.
The ryot’s hut of straw and wattle is a
poor protection against any marauder, and
the hyena found this out long ago, for
both in India and Africa this most
cowardly of beasts has specialised in
breaking and entering, with children as
the objective. Rare to hear of its attack-
ing a man, though in this instance an
old Brahmin has been a victim. That
seems to have roused the countryside, and
the hyena is probably dead by this. A
few children do not matter much in rural
India, but a holy priest is a very different
matter.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: “Beargrass” mentions a peli-
can swallowing a “rare silver seagull” at
the Melb. Zoo (B. 12/2/’36). Why rare?
Flocks of these birds frequent the Vic-
torian and Tasmanian coasts, and they
nest in thousands on the Bass Strait
islands.
* * * *
“Nimau”: A Karori (M.L.) station-
owner has adopted a means of combating
the sheep-worrying menace which smacks
of the days of which Hardy writes. At
the main entrance to his property is a
notice bearing the legend: “Do you value
your dog? If so, keep him off this prop-
erty.” The tails of three marauding dogs
are symmetrically arranged on the board,
and it is surmounted by the head of an
Alsatian, ears erect and jaws wired
open so that the fangs are exposed and
the tongue lolls out in the most life-
like manner. The whole thing makes a
gruesome show, though its effectiveness
is questionable.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Those big burrowing
wasps are certainly models of speed and
efficiency. Watched a female of this
solitary clan scouting over a patch of
cultivated ground. She tested it in several
places for easy digging, then flew away.
Shortly afterwards she returned with an
insensible grasshopper (anaesthetised by
means of her sting),
and dropped it
near the selected
spot. Then she
hopped into the ex-
cavation work,
soon disappearing
from view. Hav-
ing finished, she
came up, cast a
critical eye over
her work, then
parked the grass-
hopper in the hole.
Inside 10 seconds
she had laid her
egg and was out
again, completing
the job by quickly
filling in the cavity.
Time taken for the
entire job from
when she went off
to seek a grass-
hopper could not
have exceeded five
minutes. She re-
peats this routine
many times before
all her eggs are safely deposited, each
with its food-supply perfectly preserved
with formic acid injected in the principal
nerve-centre.
“Otnim”: Fate played the hundredth
chance with a frolicsome young draught
filly on a farm at Minto (N.S.W.) re-
cently. Let into the yard where a bull
was having his feed, her ladyship thought
the fair sex should have a cut, too, but
his lordship tossed his head in contempt
at the intruder at his feedbox. The
"And now a cheerio message for our country Listeners. Drenching rain
is expected during the next twenty-four hours.”
horn cut the jugular vein, and the prad
bled to death before it was possible for a
vet. to stop the flow. Ninety-nine times a
shake of the head would not have grazed
the skin.
* * * *
“Speewaa”: When the Melbourne
papers announced that Asphodelus fistu-
losus was becoming a menace in the
Wimmera shire, city dwellers had visions
of a Greek conspiracy, with possibilities
of the old phalanx reforming to chal-
lenge constituted authority behind its
oyster-knives. It turns out' that Aspho.
isn’t a revolutionary, but simply science’s
dignified title for our old enemy the
onion weed. He is now declared noxious
by the Governor-in-Council and may be
shot on sight.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Adjudication, please! While
fishing for bream with light hand lines
I got a bite, gave a tug, but feeling
nothing more surmised I had missed.
My fellow-angler in the boat shortly
afterwards got a “hit” and started to haul
in. When the fish was landed it had two
lines in its mouth, my cobber’s and mine.
It must have been ravenous to go for
the second bait with my hook still in its
jaw. Whose fish was it?
* * * *
“Billy See”: In this perennial argument
about a shark turning on its back to
seize a swimmer, doesn’t it ever strike the
disputants that all those good English
yarns in which such incidents figured
were written about the sharks of the
Atlantic equatorial waters, and especially
of the Caribbean Sea? Quite possible,
being of a different species, those Atlan-
tic sharks do turn on their backs as has
so often been related. Ours can take a
meal from almost any angle.
* * * *
“G.G.6”: The sea of pear which has
for many years engulfed much of south-
west Queensland has given up one of its
secrets. The work of Cactoblastis re-
vealed a long-hidden grave with a head-
stone which said the grave contained the
remains of one James Halliday, of Scot-
land, who had died at Tartha station in
1874. Only a few of the old hands could
remember that Tartha was once an im-
portant run which had to be abandoned
because of the encroaching pear. It was
on the Moonie River, about 20 miles
from Tara, but beyond the grave no trace
whatever of the head station remains.
* * * *
“Kuku”: William long ago
settled that question (B. 5/2 /’36) of the
New Guinea natives reported by Black-
wood and Cook as blowing lime or
smoke at strangers from bamboo tubes.
Earlier observers were unable to ap-
proach closely to these manifestations.
MacGregor found them to be due to the
N.G. custom of smoking from a com-
munal pipe, the bau-bau. The bamboo
tube is filled with smoke from a cigar-
ette stuck in a small hole at one end,
and when it is sufficiently full is passed
from hand to hand. Each man takes
a whiff from the bau-bau until it is
exhausted, blowing the smoke into the
air when his lungs can hold it no longer.
“Spook”: Listening to the radio the
other night I heard someone quoting an
English paper’s account of Australia’s
kangaroos. There are, it appears, two
kinds, the brasher and the boomer. The
boomer runs to 7ft. high ; it has a tre-
mendous leap, and its favorite habitat
is under bushes or in a hollow tree. The
radio man was inclined to scoff at the
description, but there is nothing wrong
with it. My last active part in mundane
matters was attempting to poke a possum
out of a hollow Christmas bush some
70ft. from the ground. To my horror,
instead of a possum a 7ft. boomer
emerged, and, gnashing its fangs in fury,
hurled me to earth. I am writing this
on the headstone some of the boys
erected to my memory under the tree. I
would take the opportunity of saying here
that, considering the amount of money
they used to win from me at poker, it
is a dashed cheap-looking affair.
* * * *
“Cape Wollamai”: Tasmanian trum-
peter ought to be in the running for Aus-
tralia’s best eating fish (B. 29 /1 / ’36).
For flavor it will, plain-boiled, hold its
own anywhere. It is hard to get now
even in the Speck, for it is usually hooked
in 12 to 20 fathoms off some of the
worst coast in Australia.
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart”: I have just received a
circular from a broadcasting station in-
viting me to buy a tailwagger’s badge
for 2s. 6d.; the invitation goes on to state
that “the badge can be used for both
dogs and cats, and this, of course,
entitles dogs to the privileges of the
society.” May I protest? For the
human purchaser to wear a tailwagger’s
badge seems to me ridiculous, homo
sapiens being tailless; to append it to
a dog or cat would be annoying to the
animal, if not cruel. Moreover, though
dogs wag their tails if treated intelli-
gently and not hung with medals, cats
are not addicted to the gesture, prefer-
ring, in moments of wrath or emotion,
a lateral motion in stately tempo. More-
over, why should cats be decorated with
an insignia which confers on dogs, their
natural enemies, the right to be treated
in a luxurious hospital, from which, I
take it, cats are to be excluded—not
that they’d enter it without vigorous pro-
test? The whole notion seems to be
muddleminded.
* * * *
W. Miller, from Gwelo, Southern
Rhodesia:
Since reading Lasseter’s Last Ride some
years ago I have often wondered what became
of the kaditcha stick that Philip Taylor had
wished on him by the abo. tribe at Ilbilba,
and whether the hoodoo that followed the ex-
pedition in the bush also followed the holder
of the stick into civilisation. A while ago
I met Taylor’s brother here in Rhodesia. He
showed me a sheaf of photographs, and told
me the subsequent fate of the kaditcha talis-
man. After that Centralian trip everything
broke wrongly for Taylor, and he presently
found himself among the unemployed.
All this while the kaditcha stick was hang-
ing, as Taylor had declared it should, above
the mantelpiece of his home in the south of
England. His mother regarded it as some-
thing unholy, and steadfastly refused to touch
it. Partly because of her wishes, Taylor offered
it to the British Museum. There must be
many curses housed there, but this one from
Centralia never reached it. It was removed to
the cellar, where it got broken, and it finished
up in the boiler fire!
Soon after its destruction Taylor was offered
a post in Teheran as consulting aviation
engineer to the Persian Government. And
there he is still.
I don’t believe in the power of hoodoos,
of course. But coincidences are a bit queer
sometimes, aren’t they?
LAY OF THE LITTLE SHEARING.
Thus runs the solemn Law’s award: “For
crutching, wigging, ringing
The rate’s” —so much per hundred. The sheep
are slowly stringing
Back to the board they left clean-shorn a
few short months ago;
But lambing-time’s in prospect and the fly
is out “on strike”;
My harp is set in minor and a doleful song
I’m singing
Of a job that’s pretty urgent, a task that all
dislike:
Crutching, wigging, ringing.
Once the “little shearing” disclosed a comic
cluster
Of stragglers and the odds and ends brought
in by second muster,
With scrub-torn wool in pieces and flopping
double fleeces.
The station hands would peel these in the
spacious flyless days;
Now a barber team is bending and the
driving engine’s jigging,
Romance has gone to cover and prosaic duty
stays:
Rigging, crutching, wigging.
The sheep themselves seem conscious of the
shave that stops “too recent,”
Turned out like flappers on a beach, half-
dressed and half indecent.
When we are critically cold, the compensa-
tions (we are told)
Of Nature on the balance may some day
redress its ills.
Like drowning men who grasp at straws,
that hope we’re faintly clutching,
Whatever trials seasons bring or politician
wills:
Wigging, ringing, crutching.
Malediction on the rabbit horde, the locust,
fox and dingo!
Anathema the carrion crow! —we know no
apter lingo.
Though these seem always with us, at times
they disappear;
And the gatherer of taxes, sometimes we may
dissuade him;
But the fly—blind Nature’s offspring—goes
his sordid way a-winging,
And we who can’t control him, destroy him
or evade him
Are crutching, wigging, ringing.
O Power inscrutable, all things, beneficent and
baneful,
Thou call’s) to life; the problem seems a
puzzling one and painful;
Respectfully I drop this in the cosmic
question box
As advocate for suffering beast and temper-
tried humanity
(Esteem me not a reprobate or idle cynic
scoffer).
Thou madest this fiend who causes such a lot
of coarse profanity.
In Chinese English, “Whaffor?”
S.A.
BILL O'C.


HITS
LYS
ft
PROOF
MUUM «*M»I
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
T: - .
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Pink-eye and History.
“Bungaree”: “B-gar” is right in advo-
cating not only the isolation of those
sheep already suffering from pink-eye,
but the treatment of the entire mob (B.
26/2/’36). Admittedly, it means a lot
of work, but numbers of apparently
sound sheep may already have been
affected, and if the whole mob is doc-
tored —provided the treatment is not too
severe—it will prevent future trouble.
The infection, besides being spread by
contact with long grass and scrub and
other fleeces when sheep are crowded to-
gether, is more often carried by flies.
How and when pink-eye was intro-
duced to this country is hard to say, but
the following extract from the official
account of the Sale of the Royal Merino
Stud Sheep at Kew, 1804, at which John
Macarthur purchased the first stud
merinos for Australia, is interesting.
Lot 1 is described as a “Shilling Ram
laboring under temporary privation of
sight, bought by Capt. Macarthur for
£6 155.” Lot 15: “A ram at present
blind, sold to Capt. Macarthur for 22gn.”
According to the general report, many
animals were not in fit condition to be
offered for sale, and the flockmaster and
Sir Joseph Banks came in for some criti-
cism. In addition to the two sheep above-
mentioned, one was “too unwell to be
offered,” another “suffered with bad
eyes” and one is described as “suffering
from the disorder known as the foot-rot.”
One chronicler has recorded that foot-
rot was prevalent in N.S.W. in 1803, and
that it disappeared with the subsequent
drought and did not reappear until 1878.
A still earlier account of the first flocks
remarks on their wonderfully healthy
condition, adding that although blowflies
were more numerous than in the Old
Country, and that any carrion was in-
stantly attacked, there were no instances
of sheep being struck by fly. The blow-
fly’s taste for mutton may have taken
some time to acquire, but he has made
up for lost time since.
Rugging Sheep.
“Wally D.”: The rug “Winfield” men-
tions (B. 29/1/’36) is a good one. Simi-
lar ones made of canvas are used very
successfully by stud breeders in N.S.W.,
but the rug has its drawbacks when used
on mobs of 1000 or more. There are too
many loose places to catch on fallen
branches, etc.
I think the S. Australian studmen’s
lead is well worth following. The wheat-
bag is cut as “Winfield” describes (but
has not the bellyband or the string
around the back legs), and is sewn from
shoulder to flank with a bag needle and
twine to the wool, when the sheep has
about two months’ growth. As the wool
grows where sewn, it allows the rug to
rise with the wool on the sheep’s back.
To make sure of ample room the rug
can be taken off after three or four
months and resewn, allowing room for
later growth.
It is surprising how quickly the job
can be done once confidence has been
gained with the needle.
Judging by the few I have experimented
on, there is no doubt that rugging im-
proves growth and appearance and adds
a good deal of weight to the fleece.
Cox’s Merino Chart.
E. W. Cox’s chart, showing the evolu-
tion of the Australian merino via most
of the leading studs, is one of the most
useful things of its kind which has been
done in pedigree work. Only stud flocks
which have had a substantive influence
on the development of the breed are
given. Heavy lines indicate the sources
of foundation blood, and lighter lines,
guided where necessary by an arrow
system, show the direction of flow.
It is an easy system to follow, more
especially as the chart is sectionalised
according to States. And the information
which it contains is indispensable to any
large-scale sheep man who takes his
flock-breeding seriously.
New Foot-rot Germ.
“Albarmount”: W. I. B. Beveridge,
of the C.5.1.R., has isolated a new germ,
for the present called “Organism X,” and
his discovery may ultimately lead to the
eradication of foot-rot.
Bacillus necrophorus has been gener-
ally blamed for the disease, but Mr.
Beveridge failed to introduce foot-rot to
uninfected sheep by the use of this
bacillus alone. The disease was easily
transferred by using material from in-
fected animals. Mr. Beveridge reasoned
that' there must be another agency,
by careful microscopic investigations
“Organism X” was discovered.
Foot-rot germs cannot live long in the
soil, nor are they troublesome during dry
periods, when, generally, some sheep carry
the disease in latent form or in chronic
lesions in the hooves. Apropos of this,
Mr. Beveridge says that the elimination
of foot-rot from flocks and infestation
from properties by treating or removing
all cases of chronic and latent infection
during dry summers, while the disease is
in abeyance, has possibilities which he is
investigating.
Bluestone Drench.
“Valerin”: I cannot agree with
“W.D.Mc.’s” (B. 19/2/’36) objection to
the use of bluestone in worm formulas.
Dr. Clunies Ross has demonstrated
that bluestone has a special property in
being delivered direct into the fourth
stomach, where it attacks the fine oster-
tagia worms, and the trichostronglyes
of the small intestines.
Working in the Romney Marshes in
England, Mr. McEwen has proved the
efficacy of a combination of bluestone
and nicotine sulphate to deal with hair-
like worms of the small intestines. Tests
at the McMaster Institute and Glenfield
(N.S.W.) and trials on several properties
have verified the McEwen formula.
The McE. drench has been given to
lambs only a few weeks old without ill
effect.
A New Factor.
“Cow Punch”: All-year-round supplies
of tender young beef in regular weekly
shipments, resulting from lavish importa-
tion of the best early-maturing stud
cattle available ; climate, soil and rain-
fall that permits large scale lucerne
growing without irrigation, together with
comparative nearness to market —these
factors comprise the start Argentino meat
producers have over Australian rivals.
A further advantage is adequate rail
service to obviate long droving, thus re-
taining bloom, condition and tender
quality.
Bulletin writers have told local cattle-
men time and again that there is no
hope unless they breed quick-maturing,
small-jointed stuff weighing around 7501 b.
at 24 to 28 months of age, and sufficient
to maintain supply. Now McCann (S.A.
Trade Commissioner in London) says
there is a distinct lack of bloom in many
Australian cargoes shipped under CO2
conditions.
So the scientists had better lend a hand,
too. Cambridge Low Temperature Sta-
tion (Eng.) is already at it. The new
Meat Board might ask what is being
done at this end.
Casein Calculation.
“Steve”: Without exception, within
my knowledge, butter factories pay for
supplies on a butter-fat basis, to the
mutual loss of factory and supplier alike.
It is not the butter-fat only which is im-
portant in cheese-making. Casein is a
vital component. Yet this mostly passes
untested and unnoticed.
Men with Jersey herds and other high-
testing grade stock are in some districts
being encouraged and paid to produce
an article which is not the most suitable
for cheese-making.
The remedy is to apply the casein-
fat test, which can be calculated simply:
Subtract 3.0 from fat percentage, multi-
ply result by 0.4 and add 2.1 to result,
which gives the casein percentage. Tak-
ing milk with a test of 5.0 p.c. fat, we
get:
5.0 —3.0 = (2.0x0.4) = 0.8+2.1 = 2.9 p.c. casein.
Similar computations readily reveal which
milk has the greater value for cheese
manufacturing.
Grinding Grain for Pigs.
“Large White”: Some recent Swedish
investigations have a bearing on this
matter. It has generally been thought
that there is no advantage gained by
grinding maize—indeed, Henry and Mor-
rison (Feeds and Feeding ) recommend
feeding it on the cob. The Swedish
workers found that the finer the grind-
ing the better the results. With barley
best results were obtained from a
medium fineness. Comparisons were
also made of grain fed dry and that
steeped in milk or water for some hours,
but no appreciable differences could be
found.
Necrotic Enteritis in Pigs.
“Silky Bag”: This is a serious pig
disease, and not hard to recognise. It is
distinguished from swine plague (a
pneumonic infection) by the absence of
cough or nasal discharge.
There is no known cure, so that diag-
nosis and slaughter of the affected
animals are the best means of elimina-
tion. A post-mortem of a badly-infected
pig is the quickest guide.
The caecum or blind intestine is the
hot-bed, and, on opening, this will show
all over an ulcerated, black or grey
rotting with pus. In some cases, it has
the button ulcers of swine fever on the
intestine walls. The other main organs
are usually unaffected. Necrotic lesions,
however,, may occur all through the small
intestines, and a gastritic rawness can be
present in the stomach.
About half the young pigs in a mob
go down to the disease, the rest develop-
ing an immunity. The germs are excreted
in foul-smelling fasces and lie about the
yards, which makes reinfection very easy.
Older pigs are a big problem. They
can develop unnoticed a chronic infec-
tion, which does them little harm, but
infects the younger ones.
Control: Don’t hesitate to have proved
cases slaughtered. Disinfect and, if pos-
sible, rest pigyards after the slaughter.
Never run older pigs with the slips. And,
best of all, don’t buy without an assur-
ance that the farm from which stock
comes is free of disease.
Quarantining Noxious Weeds.
“K.Mc.”: “B-gar” suggests (B.
26/2/’36) that “if there is too much gal-
vanised burr and Noogoora to eradicate
the Government could easily fence off
heavily-infested places.”
All seedbeds of noxious weeds should
be fenced in ; but don’t expect sewerage-
bent Governments to do the job. Cudge-
gong councillors (Mudgee, N.S.W.) went
on their knees for permission to quaran-
tine seedbed areas, but were rebuffed.
Quarantining, the Minister contended,
would adversely advertise the district,
and owners would have to be compen-
sated.
There is no need for compensation.
If owners do not keep their land clean
they deserve to lose the use of that por-
tion infested with weeds. And quaran-
tining would be an assurance that stock
from those districts would be free of
noxious seeds.
If the Government granted the power
to quarantine, that would greatly help
the shires and cost little.
Disc v. Mouldboard.
“Valerin”: For general ploughing
there is a definite swing in southern N. S.
Wales from the mouldboard to the disc
or sundercut.
Advantages claimed for the disc are
(1) penetration and thorough pulverisa-
tion of land which the mouldboard
would not “look at”; (2) effective
destruction of weeds and other growth,
and chopping into short lengths of
stubble. All this extraneous matter is
incorporated into the soil, thus maintain-
ing the humus content; (3) a 50 p.c.
reduction in draft, thus enabling larger
areas to be operated with less power;
and (4) a direct saving in ploughshares,
which in hard or stony country are a
serious cost item.
In addition, these implements can be
used for many other purposes, such as
keeping fallow clean, putting in oats
directly on stubble land and making fire-
breaks around crops and stacks.
Kikuyu and Marram in S.A.
“Bogaduck”: Kikuyu has proved won-
derfully well adapted to the third-rate
sandy country in the lower portion of
S.A. which, in its natural state, carries
only bracken, stringybark and useless
bush.
The first step there with Kikuyu is to
establish a parent stand of the grass on
sandy ground near water. Runners are
planted a yard apart on this plot, which
is rabbit-proofed and kept well irrigated
after being top-dressed. Within a few
months it will resemble a luxuriant lawn,
and a plot 50ft. square will give sods
enough to plant 30 acres at least, and
perhaps 50.
With the first autumn rains this plot
is cut into sods with a sharp spade;
the sods are carted out to the paddock
and are let into the soil at intervals of
6ft. among the bracken, which shelters
the grass through the winter.
The Kikuyu runners grow in all direc-
tions from the parent sods. When the
bracken starts to grow again in the next
spring, the paddock is gone over once a
month, and the practice continued
through the summer with a ribbed roller.
A good one can be made by bolting 2in.
(Continued on page 24.)


Here's straight talking on petrol values! To-day . . •
in all high compression engines, 1934, 1935, 1936
models especially ... no spirit on the market can
out-perform Atlantic Ethyl*!
We've proved it . . . so have thousands of motorists
for two solid years. Now—for your own sake—we’re
asking YOU to prove it! So test Atlantic Ethyl . . .
when and wherever you like . . . judge its value for
yourself. Test Atlantic Ethyl—it’s A 1!
* Cars built before 1934 (other than those with high compression
motors) having comparative low compression and a consequent free -
dom from knock develop full power output on Atlantic Petrol,
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., incorporated in N.S.W.—A.EI-36.


If shoe
could speak
Just think of the tales it could
tell about that sliced drive or
missed putt
Or of the hard wear and bad
treatment which it receives,
ultimately bursting the stitching
and breaking the sole of all but
the strongest. Anyhow, this
Golf Shoe can’t speak, but we
can see by the way it wears that all the hardships it has to endure
won’t break its sole.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
\VA2O.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice' Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
m
m
m
I
■
There are thousands of acres of land in China where storms
have swept away the soil, leaving only stones and gravel
behind.
Lost ground is no more unproductive than the years that
are permitted to pass without making a sound investment —
an investment that will provide for your future years. Trees
—the lack of which has caused the destruction of so much
of China’s soil —can be your source of income.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. was organised with the object
of planting forests which, with their rapid growth and the
great demand for softwoods, would amply repay the invest-
ment. At present N.Z. Perpetual Forests has planted
163,000 acres and approximately £4,000,000 has been sub-
scribed for forestry investment, whilst (approx.) £1,000.000
is held in reserve for maintenance and realisa-
tion. Thousands of investors have grasped the
opportunities of investing in N.Z. Perpetual
Forests Ltd.
May we send our representative to give you
facts and figures regarding this investment.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA;
IvEMIiLA BUILDING, 58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
WATCH
TOUR MO NSW
CROW
No connection with any other Forestry Company.
Peps up Body
as it Ends Lazy Poisons !
Body wastes start gases which destroy ap-
petite, digestion and health. Constipation is
not overcome by ordinary laxatives, or
purges which act like a whip on an open
wound. The perfect Treatment is ‘INTES-
TONE’, a new Yeast-Salts combination.
This gives a mineral salts course, plus Yeast
which is “Eife”, together with other recog-
nised medicinals—Rhubarb and Juniper, the
latter to ensure dispelling Rheumatic Pains,
Backache, etc. ‘lntestone’ causes the break-
up of old, hardened wastes that clog the
intestines. No painful movement. Just
easy regularity of habit; sweet breath, clear
tongue, clear eyes and skin—free, vigorous
limb movement—and tons of “pep”. Try
‘lntestone’ yourself and get the proof.
Large packages 2/9 at any Chemists. If
any difficulty in procuring ‘lntestone’ send
order, adding 4d. postage,, to Owl Pharmacy,
Martin Place, Sydney. Better than Bran—
Intestone
Puts ‘Kick’ into Tired Bodies!
ALL SUCCESSFUL FARMERS
use
The Best Fertilizers.
P.B. COMPLETE MANURES
are THE BEST
for ALL CROPS
They contain the right constituents
in the proper proportions to bring
the crops through to maturity.
Each one is specially compounded
for the particular crop, and is based
on a scientific study of the needs
of that crop.
ORDER P.B. MANURES FOR SURE
RETURNS.
Write for Free Booklet —“Farming foi
Profit.”
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
T^ielSulleS/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post. Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
angle irons to a smooth, round log. These
repeated bruisings kill out fully half the
bracken without harming the Kikuyu.
During the following autumn the pad-
lock is top-dressed and sown with sub.
clover, which grows quite well amongst
the Kikuyu runners. Thereafter, the land
needs no further treatment save the
annual top-dressing. The rest of the
bracken dies out gradually. The Kikuyu
takes its place as a sand-binder, and
keeps the sand from drifting in the
summer, when the clover has died off.
It also gives a quick growth of green
feed after every summer rain.
Opinions vary as to the number of stock
which can be carried on this country, but
it is safe to say that much country can
be made to carry three sheep to every
two acres, with a minimum of work and
expense. Sub. clover alone will not do
on much of the bracken country, as there
is nothing to stop sand drift in the latter
part of the summer when top-dressing
and use of the ribbed roller have ousted
the bracken.
Parts of the south-eastern coast of
S.A. were drifting in an alarming way
until recently, the dunes moving inland
at the rate of several hundred yards per
annum.
Marram grass, planted out in autumn,
is solving the problem. It has a poor
feeding value, but when once it has
locked up the sand edible plants like
primrose and saltbush get a chance to
seed and grow, turning wastes of drift
sand into permanent dunes which will
carry a sheep to every four or five acres,
as well as removing a potential menace
to the good country farther inland.
Spelling Irrigation Pastures.
“Pappamosca”: Farmers who go in
for rotational grazing don’t always
understand the effects of varying the
period of recovery allowed after the grass
has been eaten down.
Obviously this is important in mixed
pastures, because of the uneven growth
of different plants. It is easy to upset the
balance of a pasture by either too short
or too long spelling. And unbalanced
pasture can easily send animals down
with bloat or digestive troubles.
It is important on irrigated pastures
to see that legume balance is right, and
the control of it and of white clovers, in
particular, is always a problem.
The Victorian Agricultural Depart-
ment has been experimenting for several
years with a paddock section sown in
1923 with the following mixture: Peren-
nial rye, 121 b. per acre ; cocksfoot, 41b.
p.a. ; lucerne, 21b. p.a. ; perennial red
clover, alsike clover, white clover, straw-
berry clover and sub. clover, each lib. p.a.
For 10 years the plot was eaten over
regularly by a dairy herd. The lucerne,
alsike and red clover had dwindled per-
ceptibly, but prairie grass had found its
way in and was thriving.
Three years ago the area was dealt with
sectionally in these different ways—cut
weekly and fortnightly, three-weekly,
monthly, five- and eight-weekly and
mown for meadow hay at 22-day and 23-
day intervals.
The cutting was so organised that every
16 weeks all plots were cut on the same
day. Eight-weekly cuttings gave the great-
est yield of dry matter except in the last
four summer months, with five-weekly
and four-weekly cuttings next in order.
But, at the same time, weeds increased
only 1.4 p.c. in the weekly-cut plots and
7.3 p.c. in the eight-weekly sections. Also,
while there was a yield of 184.61 b. dry
leguminous matter from the weekly cut,
the yield was only 147.61 b. from the two-
monthly cut.
The best balanced results came from
a monthly cutting system.
Green Manuring and Water.
“Ghanam”: It is recognised that
humus or other organic soil matter will
hold water more fully than mineral soils.
Some humus takes out even 1000 p.c.
moisture, while mineral soil capacity is
only from 20 to 40 p.c.
The C.S.I.R. has been experimenting
for some time with changes in water
capacity due to green manuring, which
naturally adds considerably to the humus
content of the soil, but the results have
shown that green-manure humus adds
little to water retention—nine years regu-
lar fertilising with green manures added
only 1.25 p.c. to the “sticky point” of the
30 centimetres of surface soil, or equal
to about one-quarter in rain p.a.
For moisture purposes, green manur-
ing isn’t worth while, though for its
other virtues, it certainly is.
Wild Radish in Seed Barley.
“Kyeamba”: The separation of a seed
line from other seeds of approximately
the same size, shape and weight gives
plenty of worry. Wild radish is a particu-
larly troublesome pest.
Unlike most of the members of its
family— Cruciferce —the wild radish pod
breaks transversely into one or more
seeded segments, the seeds remaining en-
closed within sections of the pod which
are comparable in size with wheat, oats
and barley, and when in bulk lines are
difficult to eliminate by grading or win-
nowing.
Last year I heard of an experiment by
a Westralian concern which had seed
barley badly infected with radish.
Owing to the difference in weight and
density between the two seeds, it was
decided to attempt separation by flota-
tion. A quantity of the affected barley
was poured into a tub of water. After
stirring, the entire w.r. content floated on
the surface, while the barley remained
on the bottom. As it was calculated that
in treating bulk samples immersion from
half to three-quarters of an hour would
be needed, samples were taken at the
end of 30 and 45 minutes’ immersion.
These were thoroughly dried by electric
fans. After storage for a few days germi-
nation tests were made, together with un-
treated seed, with the following results:
Time Immersed. Germination.
98%
30 min. .. .. .. 100%
45 min .. 96%
Thus, allowing for experimental error,
the immersion produced no detrimental
effect.
Later, five tons of barley was treated
in large tanks, the radish being skimmed
off on rising to the surface. After im-
mersion the seed was spread on the
floors about 6in. deep and a current of
air drawn through. The seed was thor-
oughly dried by continual stirring, and
a germination test gave 98 p.c., with no
sign of wild radish.
I have since seen the method success-
fully tried with seed-wheat and oats. In
all cases thorough drying after immersion
is essential.
Hints for the Farm.
“Valerin”: Many farmers estimate
hay yields by keeping count of the balls
of twine used. Taking one season with
another, a fair average yield is two tons
to a ball. A tall crop, well grown and
tolerably free from weeds and under-
growth, will go close to 2\ tons per ball.
“Silky Bag”: Oilstone the three flats
of a trochar which refuses to enter easily,
so that both point and corners are equally
sharp. The fit of the canula is even more
important, as its leading edge must be of
less diameter than the trochar point. Tap-
ping and grinding will secure this.
“Berry”: The blackberry bushes that
had been proclaimed noxious weeds in
the Bridgetown (W.A.) district delighted
the hearts of immigrants. They were so
homelike. The same pest was taboo in
Corsica, but for a different reason:
Corsicans were persuaded that malaria
followed the eating of the fruit. The
truth was, of course, that the fever season
coincided with the time when the black-
berries were ripe. The mango was re-
garded by many as a confederate of
dengue in N. Queensland.
“Crescent”: Bill Lunny, of Crow’s
Nest (Q.), can show tomato-growers an
unusual variety. One of his tomato
plants, growing close to a strawberry
plant, was evidently the subject of bee
inoculation. Result: perfectly-formed
tomatoes and strawberries on the one
bush. The tomatoes have a rare flavor
never found in shops, but when ripe are
somewhat mottled in color.


SILENCE and VERSATILITY CHARACTERISE
the New SUPER SILENT L. C. SMITH TYPEWRITER
SILENCE—without—SACRIFICE.
The new SUPER
SILENT L. C. SMITH
is the first type-
writer ever manu-
factured that is both
STANDARD and
SILENT. It is
STANDARD in per-
formance ; it’s
SILENT in operation.
ĺ
Thirty years ago the
designers of the
L. C. SMITH adopted
the principle of
segment (type) shift
and have adhered
to it ever since.
There is no dancing
of the Carriage when
shifting for Capitals.
BUILT ON THE BALL-BEARING PRINCIPLE THROUGHOUT.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.
“Stanton House,’’ 131 Pitt St
.“Penfold House,” Cr. Queen and Lit. Collins Sts.,
„ , “Widows’ Fund Buildings,” 40 Grenfell St.,
Maedougalls (Q land) Pty., Ltd., 299 Queen St., Brisbane. H. Hardman, 35 Barrack
.. Sydney.
Melbourne.
, Adelaide.
St., Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
How happy some middle-aged men
would be if only they could lose their
paunch instead of their punch!
•2* *2* *2* *2*
Warning to Lovers.
“For the sherry blonde the make-up should
be a peach rouge under the new banana
powder, with a pomegranate lip-paste.”
—Beauty hint.
With these latest dictates of Fashion,
woman’s face has become not' so much a
face as a fruit salad. As I have ever been
a lover of fruit salad and cream, as well
as being a lover in the mushy sense, 1
find that the new facial adornment has
stirred in me a strong cannibalistic urge
which I have the greatest difficulty in
suppressing.
My object here is to issue a solemn
warning to men of the dangers which this
new fashion may engender. Let them
take heed by my experience.
The other night I met a sherry blonde
who was wearing a burgundy frock and
champagne shoes. This weird and un-
accustomed alcoholic mixture intoxi-
cated me. I felt my mouth watering—
as it ever does —at the sight of the peach
make-up and the cream ; but it' was the
pomegranate lipstick that did it. Before
I realised what I was doing I had pas-
sionately crushed her to me, and was
swooping on those vivid and alluring
lips when my cheek happened to touch
hers. With a terrific wallop my jaw hit
the ground. I had forgotten about the
banana powder!
I’m thinking of growing a non-skid
beard.
80.
*!• *!«
“A valuable collection of fossils has been
presented to the Commonwealth Palaeontolo-
gical collection in Canberra.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
At any rate, the new collection has
this advantage over the old one —it’s
valuable.
•j*
The Waters of Venice.
When I met her in the romantic atmo-
sphere of the Queen of the Adriatic the
hour was already late.
A solitary gondola was moored by the
steps, but no gondolier was in sight. I
scouted round, and presently found the
familiar, dark-haired figure munching a
shallot and spitting into the water.
“Come and get that boat into action,”
I demanded with Anglo-Saxon directness.
“But, signor, I” he protested, with
Mediterranean procrastination.
I seized him by the neck and bundled
him on board, still protesting, while we
sat down inside. She snuggled in closely.
Hardly had the paddler taken a dozen
strokes when the accident happened.
One moment she was in my arms and
the next I was clasping an indignant carp
in the water. I kissed it, discovered the
mistake and let it go. She and the gon-
dolier were clinging to the upturned
gondola.
“Sapristi, fool!” I hissed, pushing him
down to the slippery end to obtain a
firmer grip. “What sort of a gondolier
do you claim to be?”
“None at all, if the signor pleases,” he
said deprecatingly. “I was merely con-
templating the waters when the signor
arrived. lam not a gondolier—l am a
poet.”
Cloon.
Liquid Content.
The raised arm well out in the first
line of breakers had caught the eye of
the lifesaver on patrol, and within a
couple of seconds the beltman had hit
the water. The distressed surfer was just
going down for the third time when he
was grabbed by the hair, and the long
pull back through the heavy seas com-
menced. Water was streaming from him
as he was being carried up the beach,
and by the time resuscitatory operations
commenced his face was a greyish black.
The gravity of the lifesavers’ faces de-
noted how close a thing it would be.
With every pressure on his lungs from
the man astride him water gushed in a
seemingly endless stream. But after
half an hour’s unremitting effort the
victim began to show signs of life. An
hour after he had been dragged from
the depths he dazedly sat up and gulped
in great draughts of air.
His mates gathered round, patting him
on the back and offering words of
encouragement.
“Blimey, Joe, you were tinny that
time,” said one of them. “That lifesaver
“Goof nacht, mein children.
Und remember—only goot
Nordic dreams!”
bloke reckons y’ swallered over ’alf a
gallon.”
Joe staggered to his feet, still shaky
after his awful ordeal. A few more
seconds he stood, his mind trying to
grasp the facts.
“Cripes, yairs,” he said slowly. “I
must’ve got a proper bellyful all right.
I’m the luckiest cow alive. Let’s get
acrorss to the pub an’ ’ave a drink on
the strength of it!”
S. W. K.
*2* -I- *l* *2*
The Victim.
He emerged from the crowd, feeling
his pocket and cursing vehemently.
“Damned thieving swines!” he mut-
tered. “Some low-down rat’s pinched my
watch! Must have been that bloke I
noticed edgin’ up close, the slinkin’ little
crook! I should have been on the look-
out —just shows you what you get for
being trustful. I wish I could lay me
hands on him now, the flamin’ snake!”
He turned homeward, mumbling bit-
terly—a man whose faith in human
nature was utterly shattered.
“If only I could tell the cops!” he
mused. “But that’s the snag. I can’t
very well tell them, considerin’ I pinched
it meself in the first place.”
T. W. N.
4* 4* *f*
“The rows of kernels on an ear of corn are
always even in numbers —18, 20, etc.”
—News item.
Farmer Drybelt' agrees that they are
even, but gives the numbers 0,2, etc.
<*• 4* . +
Irresistible.
“A revolution-proof safe has just been com-
pleted.”—“Herald.”
Silas K. Lotsocash, the multi-million-
aire, was pleased with his private safe.
“Had it in several places,” he boasted ;
“went all through six Mexican revolu-
tions and a coupla dozen South Ameri-
can wars. Once the rebels looted my
house, set fire to the place and threw
bombs into the ruins. Nothing would
open my safe. Gelignite, revolutions —
no chance!”
At that moment Mrs. Lotsocash walked
in. “Silas dear,” she cooed ; “open the
safe and get me a thousand dahlars.
Wanna new frock.”
“0.K., baby,” said Silas.
D. S.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Widow, elderly professional woman, home
loving, small means, wishes to meet gentleman,
70 to 80, good position, view matrimony.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Even though it is leap year, something
should be done to prevent these women
deliberately luring young men into
matrimony.
*l* *•*
Signing as a Career.
“Every man should practise signing his
name.” — “Sun.”
This is all right for people who are
content to sign for pleasure. I spent
weeks and weeks practising my signature
on the south-east corner of cheque forms.
I got a lot of fun out of it, but no profit.
In fact, it was costing me twopence per
signature. That gave me the idea of
using someone else’s cheque forms. And
why not someone else’s signature?
I soon mastered the boss’s scrawl, and
after a little more practice I was reason-
ably good at the signature of anyone who
had money in the bank. It was then
that I passed from the ranks of the
amateur signature-practitioners to the
professionals.
Even people who draw the line at
signing other people’s names on cheques
can find profitable employment in this
line. There is a great demand for private
secretaries who can save managing direc-
tors the trouble of signing all the letters.
Those who can sign letters alleged to be
written by rivals are popular in political
circles.
My own trouble is that none of the
warders will believe that the governor of
the prisons signs the orders for my re-
lease which I show them.
Penman.
+
“He has been accused of engineering a fraud
in tennis goods.”— “Telegraph"
A racquet-eer.
4* *i*
“ ‘My husband has stayed home to mind
the baby right from the very start of our
marriage,’ says a lady correspondent.”
Probably she doesn’t mean exactly
that.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
V. — Wandering Round Westralia.
It is a mistake to think that when
you’ve seen Perth and Subiaco you’ve
done Westralia. There’s quite a lot of
the State out of earshot of the Fremantle
Flier. The mountain-climber will find
scope for his talents in scaling the pre-
cipitous heights of Mt. Lawley, and the
deep-sea fisherman who slings his hook
at Applecross will meet with many a
stirring tussle.
If he decides to go further afield the
tourist should be careful to see that he
gets the right type of map. Railway
maps will try to convince him that there
isn’t a made road in the whole of Aus-
tralia, while a motorists’ map will en-
deavor to disguise all the railways as
rivers.
The truth lies somewhere in between,
i.e., there are some made roads and
some of the railways are rivers some of
the time.
Westralians have suffered quite a lot
through having their character maligned
by unthinking tourists. For instance, one
of the first visitors to the State, one Wil-
liam Dampier, described them as “the
miserablest people in the world.” This
is probably an exaggeration. Then there
is the remark of a later tourist who
visited the West during the goldfields
boom and nicknamed it “the land of
Sin, Sand, Sorrow and Sore Eyes.” How-
ever true this may have been at the time,
it is not so now. Medical science has
made great strides since those days.
If the tourist goes south he will come
to Bunbury (where they don’t make buns)
and Busselton, where the women dress
much the same as anywhere else. Then
all of a sudden, without any warning,
he’ll find himself in the heart of the
“Up” country.
This land was unoccupied until a few
years ago, when there was a sudden out-
break of “up” towns, most of which still
remain. There’ll be no time to visit all
of them, but the tourist should pick out
a few at random. Quindalup, Kojonup,
Pallinup, Kendenup and Mullalyup are
a few examples, not to mention Hiccup,
Cashup and Payup. The last three aren’t
on the map, but he’ll probably find ’em
just the same. There are no “up” towns
in the north, but the following should be
visited—Broome, where they sweep for
pearls, Derby (pronounced Durby to dis-
tinguish it from another town of
the same name in South America)
and Wynd-up—no, Wyndham.
Miss Birdseed on a peculiai
phenomenon:
And I didn’t think they worried
about game laws and that sort of thing in
Australia, but—would you believe it? —
they’ve got a big fence right across the
State to stop their rabbits from getting
away.
And Sir Percy Whipsnoodle records a
grave injustice:
Met a man in Perth with station
property in the south. He remarked casu-
ally that he was looking for a few men to
help him clear his land of blackboys. I
was astounded, and threatened to take the
matter up with the Dominions Office when
I got home. The callous scoundrel merely
laughed.
Then, going eastward, there’s Kalgoorlie,
but that deserves an article to itself.
Jasby.
First Thought.
A screech of brakes ! A scream of fright!
A form lay stretched upon the ground
And, fascinated by the sight,
A milling crowd soon gathered round.
So pale was she that many thought
They gazed upon a form in death ;
Then someone had a mirror brought
To test thereby if she had breath.
They held it to her lips, and then,
With eyes that seemed to be half-
■glazed,
She turned her head and saw some men ;
Then back into the mirror gazed.
And as her senses cleared at last,
She sat up straight and gave a shriek,
Groped for her bag, and said, aghast:
“My heavens ! don’t / look a freak!”
QUAYEAU.
Payment.
Her lips drew near —then closed on mine.
My spirit seemed to burst from chains.
I reeled with joy ! Like fiery wine
My blood ran fiercely through my
■veins!
Ah, yes! My spirit left me then.
It rose ! The whirling stars it neared !
Vm wond’ring now if that was when
My roll of bank-notes disappeared ?
NAT.


First Instalment of New Serial:—
THE BRIDLE TRACK
By J.J. HARDIE
Chapter I.
THEY rode into the westering sun along the dusty,
rutted track that stretched toward the hazy line
of the river timber. The last straggling shanty of
the town fell behind, and with the clear road before
it the packhorse jingled freely ahead with the stiff
new swag strapped across the bulging packbags.
In its wake rode the drover, middle-aged and
stocky, with the unimaginative, stolid features of the
steady toiler for whom the gilded dreams and hopes
of fortune do not exist. He sat squat on the thick-
set black horse, with the loose reins swinging at every
stride,, his worn clothes bleached by the sun and many
washings to a faded neutral tint.
At his side jogged the boy, fresh-faced and slim,
in his brand-new rig-out—khaki shirt and moleskins,
supple elastic-side boots and wide-brimmed felt hat—
struggling hard to curb the exuberance that bubbled
up in him. Yesterday life was a drab, depressing
thing—just another day of fruitless waiting and hang-
ing about the dusty, untidy, alien town, with the hope
of ever finding a job receding further and further.
To-day life held a glamor that needed no artificial
stimulus. He had crossed the threshold, and the
despondency of yesterday vanished like mist before
the sun. The past with its memories was a discarded
thing, locked away with the formal clothes of yester-
day in the trunk at the hotel receding behind them.
The exhilaration of the moment was something
to be enjoyed without pausing to analyse it. It was
a vague, subtle compound of the complete novelty
of everything—the stiff new clothes with the store
smell still hanging to them, the comfortable feel of
the big stock saddle, with the added hint of safety
from the wide, triangular knee-pads, the free-swinging
gait of the bay horse under him, and the quiet drover,
with long stockwhip hanging from his forearm, riding
at his side, talking to him not as a boy and a new-
chum, but as an equal—and calling him Bill!
The name was still new enough to demand a
pause before he fully realised it was his and responded
to it. New scenery combined with new, unaccus-
tomed clothes, the feeling .of self-consciousness that
invests a boy entering on his first job, the sense of
superiority of the pedestrian elevated to the saddle—
all these may herald the beginning of a new epoch
in one’s life, but none shuts a door so effectively on
the past as the adoption of a new name.
It had been Mac Andrew’s suggestion. When his
shrewd, casual questioning had satisfied him that,
although the boy was totally inexperienced, he had
in him the makings of something that the few remain-
ing beer-hums in town could never attain to, he had
held out his hand. “Right you are, then ; we’ll pull
out as soon as you’re ready. My name’s Tom
Mac Andrew. What did you say yours was?”
“Muir!”
“What else?”
The boy had hesitated. The reticence born of
school years, where he had almost come to forget
that he ever possessed other than a surname till he
went home for holidays, was still upon him, and his
reply was suspicious, grudging. “Lancelot Atherton
Muir.”
Then Mac Andrew’s expressionless nod and his
kindly “Suppose we call you Bill —it’s easier to
remember!” and the sense of relief that fell on both
of them. The boy with sudden disturbing memories
of the one person in that other life who had called
him Lance. And Mac Andrew thinking to himself as
his eyes glimmered idly at the nearing timber,
“Lancelot —and ginger hair! I reckon Bill will save
him a few hidings.”
Clear of the town, they broke into a long, easy
canter. The boy’s lack of saddle experience was
evident, and although the drover felt slightly troubled
in his mind about it his expression betrayed none of
his feelings. When a glance showed the unaccustomed
moleskins creeping up to Bill’s knees in concertina-
like folds, he eased the pace and taught him to stand
in the stirrups and let them slip back.
The sun was dropping low when the drover
pointed ahead. “There’s the mob! Camp’s just
ahead.” The boy’s eyes searched the timber, but
failed to discover anything. Then a fine haze
above the treetops caught his attention, and as
they drew nearer it thickened till through the dust
a gleam of moving white grew and took shape. The
timber thinned to a few scattered trees and twisted
shrubs, then before them opened up the sheep. From
the bare river channels out across the plain, the mob
was spread, a grey-white mass quarter of a mile wide,
drifting steadily along.
As they approached, a boy on a rough-coated
pony followed by a black kelpie materialised from
the shade of a tree and jogged across to meet them.
Bill, eyeing him with curiosity, saw a boy of about
ten, short and thickset, yet looking older than his
years by reason of the clothes he wore. They were
unmistakably cut-downs and still several sizes too big,
giving him the appearance of a little old man.
“Everything all right, Bob?”
The boy nodded, his eyes covertly taking in the
brand-newness of the newcomer as he replied, “Had
to leave a couple of old ewes on the dinner camp.
They were settled.”
“Well, I’ll go on with the packhorse. This is Bill
Muir—my son Bob!” The two young people looked
at one another, Bob inclining his head in an awkward
nod, while Bill’s stiff “How do you do?” was edged
with a restraint that plainly signified “I’ll meet you
half-way, but don’t expect me to be effusive.”
Mac Andrew, watching the two lads sizing up one
another, chuckled silently ; then, as he prepared to
follow the packhorse forging calmly through the
sheep, he broke in on their invisible sparring. “Like
to come on to the camp, Bill? Or would you rather
stop with the sheep? We’ll be putting them in the
break pretty soon.”
“I’ll stay and help with the sheep if you like.”
“Right! Bob, take him over to Dinny.”
Bill turned the bay horse in the wake of the
shaggy pony, on whose ribs the diminutive rider’s
heels beat an ineffective tattoo. The black dog poked
out in front and little groups of sheep, standing heads
together in huddled knots, broke up at his approach
and ambled after the main mob with the outstretched
necks and stiff, jerky gait of near-exhaustion.
Bill was experiencing a vague feeling of annoy-
ance. The boy pushing on ahead, rounding up the
stragglers with a sharp “Hoy!” or an encouraging
whistle to the dog, appeared totally oblivious to his
presence. As they reached the flank of the mob, he
jerked the pony to an abrupt halt, and Bill’s horse
ranged alongside, stopping from apparent force of
habit without consulting the rider. Bill forgot his
annoyance in his inspection of the horseman riding
to meet them. He looked at the man, then at the
horse ; something in its carriage, in its action as it
picked its way across the broken ground held his eye
till it halted in front of him, stretching out a shapely
nose to exchange greetings with the bay horse he
rode.
“Dad’s back, Dinny. This is Bill, the new bloke! ”
Bill met the casual scrutiny and the quiet “Good
day!” with a reserved nod. The man was somewhere
in the region of forty; his eyes were hidden under
the hat brim, and a straggling moustache and a week’s
stubble effectually disguised his features. He sat easily
in the saddle, and the long black plaited thong of a
stockwhip hung looped from his forearm.
“Got a dog?”
“No . . . I’m afraid I haven’t.”
The three sat in silence for a while, Bill fidgeting
uneasily, while the two, gazing over the sheep, had
every appearance of being naturally at ease. Gradu-
ally the sense of being slighted dissolved in the
gathering consciousness that the man and the boy had
not merely accepted, him, but had outdone his own
dislike of effusiveness by refusing to show any
curiosity or ply him with questions. Their silence
was a natural sense of quietness that accrues to men
whose solitary mode of life offers more opportunity
for thought than speech ; a shunning of idle conversa-
tion for the mere sake of hearing themselves talk, and
an avoidance of futile questions when the newcomer
carried his history all about him in his brand-new
clothes, his stiff seat in the saddle, the way he held
his reins and wore his hat. Even in the way he
glanced restlessly about, compared with the slow, keen
gaze of the bushman, who draws his information and
his inferences from the sun, the sky, the trees, the
tracks, and to whom a glance at the brand on a horse
or a bullock of the condition of a mob of sheep tells
a story and obviates a multitude of preliminary
questions.
Dinny straightened leisurely in the saddle and
glanced at the sun,' low on the horizon. “We’ll put
’em in, Bob!”
The boy tugged the unwilling head of his pony
round, belabored the staring ribs with his heels and
jogged off, his black dog interpreting the situation,
loping ahead with new energy. Bill glanced interroga-
tively at the elder man; he was still undecided how
much of the taciturnity was natural or due to the
occasion.
“Been on the road before?”
“You mean droving? No. This is my first trip.”
He paused, then with a sudden, burst of frankness,
“As. a matter of fact, I know nothing at all about
this, but . . . if you will tell me what’s to be done,
I’ll—l’ll be very grateful.”
Dinny nodded with apparent satisfaction.
“There’s nothing much to learn. Not with sheep,
anyhow! If it was cattle” The glance that swept
the woolly mob held a trace of contempt that changed
to a meditative wistfulness. Then he roused, and,
without appearing to move in the saddle, swung
his horse toward the rear of the mob. “Just dodge
the tail along. Don’t hustle them or they’ll lie down
on you! Camp’s straight ahead.”
Against an arm of timber in front of the mob the
white rectangle of a tent fly caught the low rays of
the sun. Dinny left him to ride up the wing and
turn the scattering leaders in, and Bill forced his horse
at the laggards, getting a mild thrill at their short,
jerky rushes from almost under the horse’s feet. The
mob closed together and assumed a solid tractable
form with young Bob and his dog on the left wing,
Dinny steering the leaders on to the camp from the
right, while Bill rode backward and forward across the
tail, keeping the listless, weakened sheep up to their
mates.
A fence materialised ahead, deflecting the leaders
toward the gap in the break, and a chorus of baa-ing
mingled with the dust-laden air. Bill, closing up with
young Bob, gradually made out the semicircle of
wooden stakes supporting a light rope fence running
out from the wire fence and enclosing the mob.
When the last weak and weary members had hobbled
inside, Mac Andrew appeared with a heavy maul;
more pegs were driven into the ground across the gap,
and a further section of the rope fence closed the mob
in for the night.
Bill led his horse toward the camp in Dinny’s
footsteps.
They pulled off the heavy saddles and spread the
sweat-sodden saddle-cloths over them against the
drooping pole of the waggonette. “Here’s your
hobbles!” Something landed at Bill’s feet with a
heavy clink, and he looked up sharply at the owner
of the harsh nasal tones —a long, slouching individual
with thin features and a slit of a mouth. Bill picked
up the hobbles —they looked like outsize handcuffs—
and, following Dinny’s example, fastened both straps
round the one foreleg.
“Look out when you take the bridle off! ” Dinny
cautioned him. “That horse jumps away.” He slipped
his own bridle over the bay horse’s ears ; it walked a
few slow paces, then went down on its knees with a
grunt of enjoyment, flopped over and rolled luxuri-
antly in the dust. Bill undid the throat-lash, and had
just slipped his fingers under the bridle when with a
quick twist the horse snatched his head out of
the bridle ; the bit caught in its teeth and the bridle
was jerked out of the boy’s hand, while the bay’s
quarters swung menacingly around as it bounded
forward. He jumped clear, to find Dinny watching
him closely. “I’ll show you how to fix him next
time!” he said.
Swags were unrolled, and Bill, armed with soap
and towel, joined young Mac and Dinny at their
ablutions. As Bob stepped away from the battered
tin basin, groping for the towel stuck in his belt to
relieve the sting of soap in his eyes, Dinny stood back
and beckoned Bill silently forward. The boy picked
up the dish of dirty brown water with its scum of
soapsuds, when a hand descended on his arm. “Steady
on, lad! This is a dry camp. We’ve all got to wash
in that!” Dinny smiled grimly at the consternation
on the boy’s face and jerked a thumb toward the
waggonette. “Them two drums is all we’ll see till
to-morrer dinner-time.”
Bill put down the basin and stared with uncon-
cealed distaste at its thick, murky contents. Dinny
quietly tipped a pint of fresh water from one of the
drums and added it slowly to the dish. It looked as
brown and discolored as the original, and Bill, some-
what reassured, slowly immersed his fingers. He knew
the dust lay)thick on his face, but he dreaded the touch
of this pea-soupy fluid that practically everyone in
camp had already washed in. At the moment he
would have given anything for a bucket of clean, cold
water. But the prospect had to be faced; he felt
Dinny’s keen,, inscrutable eyes on him, and with a
sudden flurry splashed the liquid on to his face, screw-
ing up his eyes and holding his breath lest it reach
beyond the- siiperficial/'skin.
He stepped back, and Dinny washed unhurriedly.
“Saves soap when you come last!” he observed drily.
Young Mac reappeared and picked up the basin; Bill
followed him' wide-eyed. To what further purpose
was this awful fluid to be used? The excited rattling
of a chain in the dusk advertised a dog tied to a
stake toward the break ; the boy planted the dish in
front of the black kelpie, and the sound of its eager
lap-lap-lap rose above the envious whimperings of the
other dogs in the further darkness.
Mac Andrew hailed from the ‘ fire. “Come and
have your supper while it’s hot, Bill. You’ll find the
tools on the tailboard and the tucker at the fire.
Bring the pint off your saddle.”
As he ducked under the tent fly stretched over
the waggonette, the cook, an old man with a hairless
yellow face and one blind, stony-looking eye grinned
affably at him from the piled plate on his knees. The
boy picked a tin plate, a wooden-handled knife and
three-pronged fork off the tailboard, where a slush-


lamp flickered fitfully. An appetising odor of roast
mutton rose from the camp-oven beside the fire ; the
tea in the blackened billy was thick and milky-
looking, but Bill was too thirsty to let his mind dwell
on further probabilities in that direction.
The mutton was lean, dark and stringy, but he
had not realised till then how hungry he was, and he
found himself enjoying the meal better than any he
had eaten for weeks. George, the cook, started to
wash-up, crooning tunelessly to himself, the others
stretched out on the ground round the fire, leaning on
their elbows. Dinny rolled a cigarette with surpris-
ing deftness ; he was the only smoker until Reg, the
horsetailer, entered the firelit circle with a bridle slung
over his shoulder; but, after silently lighting his
cigarette with a glowing coal, he slouched across to
join the cook.
“Things are bad everywhere,” Mac was saying ;
and everybody wants to shift their stock now while
they can get ’em away. Any bagman with a couple
ot horses and a packsaddle calls himself a boss drover
these days.”
No chance of picking up a dog?” Dinny queried.
A dog! It wouldn’t be safe for any sort of a
dog to show his nose in the street. If you took a
sheep-dog within a mile of Longreach they’d shake
him the minute you took your eyes off him. You’ve
seen that dog of the stationmaster’s —that long, flap-
eared spaniel? He’s been pinched three times—to
work sheep, mind you—-and they even took that yap-
ping little Pomeranian of Mother Murphy’s. Sheep-
dogs!” The drover shook his head sadly and
rose, preparatory to turning in. Dinny, still smiling
reminiscently, prepared to follow, and Bill turned to
find himself alone at the fire with young Mac.
“Want a hand to fix your swag?” the boy ven-
tured after a long silence.
“Thanks ; but I think it’s all right.”
“You’ll sleep cold the way you’ve got it —your
feet are higher’n your head, and you didn’t clear the
bindi-ies and gibbers before you unrolled it.”
“The what?”
“Bindi-ies, goat-heads—them sharp burrs—and
stones.”
“Oh—er —thanks very much.”
Bob sprang eagerly to his feet and led the way.
Now that the ice was broken, he waxed comparatively
voluble. “There ain’t no moon to-night, or you’d be
better in the shade. Don’t ever sleep right against
the butt of a tree,” he cautioned sagely. “You might
get a snake or porkypine or something in your
blankets.” And so he left Bill to assimilate that cheer-
ful bit of bedtime news.
For a long time Bill lay stretched out straight
m his blankets on the hard, springless ground staring
up at the stars. A cool night breeze whispered
vagrantly along the ground, just lifting the corner
of a blanket and letting it fall again.
The banked fire smouldered dully, and from
beyond the waggon fly, where old George was snoring
lustily, came the hesitant bleat of a sheep ; a warm,
acrid smell wafted to his nostrils—the unforgettable
smell of sheep that, once implanted in a man’s con-
sciousness, stays with him for life.
Chapter 11.
EVERY bone in his body had a private, individual
ache ; the ground underneath had the hard, relent-
less feeling of concrete, and the cold penetrated
his blankets to his very bones and made him shiver
incessantly. Bill uncovered one weary eye and sur-
veyed the world. It was still dark as pitch, but the
fire threw cheerful pennons of flame at the gleaming
stars, making old George look like a gigantic spider
as he dragged a shovelful of dark-red coals out and
planked a camp-oven on them. A terrible weariness
and longing for sleep possessed the boy, but his aching
bones rebelled at the hardness of his couch and the
cold air made him long for the warmth of the fire.
He must have dozed off in spite of the discom-
forts. A persistent, cracked voice pierced his hazy
consciousness, and he gave reluctant ear to old
George’s “Da-aylight! Breakfast’s ready!” Of day-
light there was neither vestige nor sign. The stars
still leaned down like diamonds from fathomless black
velvet, but figures were stirring and a wonderful whiff
of frying chops wafted across from the fire. The noise
of water gurgling into a tin dish galvanised him into
sudden action, and he hastily threw back the blankets.
He intended to be early at the washbasin in future.
In later years, when Bill looked back on his
first droving trip, those three long weeks of alternately
coaxing and forcing weak, exhausted sheep, sullen
from protracted hunger, he would bite his lips with
vexation at the recollection of the mistakes he made.
The first few days left him with an accumulation
of aches that made him long for nightfall. His first
surprise that everyone should turn in so soon after
the evening meal did not last long. Thereafter, when
he crawled stiffly off his horse and let it go in the
growing dusk, his aching body and legs, chafed raw
by the saddle, made bed seem the nearest equivalent
to heaven, and it seemed that he had just rolled him-
self into his blankets and dropped into a deep, dream-
less sleep when old George’s high-pitched chant of
“Daylight! Breakfast’s ready!” woke him again to
the cold realisation of another day.
He would rise stiffly and painfully, every aching
muscle protesting in the chill half-light that faded the
eastern stars. A quick, perfunctory wash, then he
would roll and tightly strap the swag and leave it near
the waggonette ; breakfast of damper and lean chops,
piping-hot, and, as they ate, the sharp, distant cracks
of Reg’s whip and a string of vindictive early-morning
oaths would rise above the drum of hoofs and the
crackle of snapping branches. Then the horses would
surge on to the camp in a wild jangle of bells and
hobblechains that sent the startled sheep rushing and
huddling to the far corner of the break.
Bridle in hand, they would encircle the mob,
single out and catch the horse they intended to ride
that day. Bill’s bay horse was a rogue that took the
joint efforts of all hands to catch, and the boy, whose
previous experience had commenced with horses
ready saddled for use, was a long time acquiring the
patient skill necessary to circumvent the cunning of
bush horses. Dinny stood by one morning, his own
horse bridled, while Bill pursued the elusive bay back-
ward and forward through the churning mob until,
winded and speechless with impotent rage, he swung
his bridle and slashed at the disappearing rump. The
horses split and scattered, pursued by Reg in a cloud
of lurid comment on the chronic uselessness of
newchums.
When the horses were brought back Dinny took
the bridle from Bill without a word, singled out the
bay, walked straight up to his shoulder, slipped the
bridle on and handed the horse over to the waiting
youth. Bill sulked for the rest of the forenoon.
On the dinner camp, young Mac lit a fire and
put his quartpot on ; Bill filled his quart from the
waterbag on his horse’s neck, and set it beside the fire
on pebbles, as he had seen the others do, to let the
flames draw underneath. When it boiled he skimmed
the yellow froth off with a twig, emptied in the tea
and sugar, ready mixed, and picked off the quart with
his hat, then sat down in the thin shade of a white-
wood and had his lunch. As soon as he had finished
he put his gear back on the saddle and rode round
to Dinny’s little fire on the opposite side of the sheep.
Dinny gave him a casual glance, then turned his eyes
back to the restless mob. Bill dismounted and stood
diffidently in front of him. “Dinny, I’m sorry about
this morning ; but, honestly, I want to catch my own
horse.”
The man on the ground nodded casually. “That’s
all right.”
“Will you tell me when I’m doing the wrong
thing?”
“I’ll show you how to go about it.”
“What was wrong this morning?”
“We-ell, pretty well everything. He’s a hard
horse to catch, that fellow—he’s been spoilt.” Dinny
emptied the rubbed tobacco from his palm into the
cigarette-paper. “You’ve got to remember that one
man can’t surround a horse in the middle of a plain,
but if you use your head—and keep your temper—
and don’t let him think you’re anxious to get that
bridle on him, you’ll be all right.” He licked the
cigarette-paper and nipped the loose ends off. “Horses
He found himself in the middle of a sea of woolly backs surging relentlessly after the little mob in front.
ain’t machines—they’re none of them alike. Don’t be
scared of them, and don’t make them scared of you—
and hold on to that temper of yours!”
That paved the way for further sessions. Some-
times a curt word of advice —“Keep your hands
down! You’re not driving a hansom cab!” —or at
other times, when they were alone, Dinny would drop
his cloak of taciturnity and talk horses. Horses and
horsemen he had known; their deeds and their
methods ; how So-and-so could teach a colt to lead
on a strand of cotton, or some other famous horse-
breaker whose colts had mouths like silk.
Except on two subjects—horses and cattle—
Dinny’s conversation was limited to monosyllables.
One aspect of Bill’s problems he faced with diffidence.
The trend of a democratic lifetime had been directed
toward minding his own business and refraining from
interfering in others’, so that when he noticed Bill
passing his annoyance with the sheep on to his horse
his first impulse was to turn a blind eye to it.
But his interest in the youth prevailed, and when
Bill next rode towards him Dinny dismounted and
called him to him. The mystified Bill stood still while
a flattened hardwood stick was thrust between his
teeth. Then Dinny struck the projecting end of the
stick a sharp blow with his hand. Bill’s head jerked
suddenly sideways, the stick dropped to the ground
and he clutched his aching jaw while a myriad stars
whirred round in his head. He wheeled on Dinny
with an outraged glare.
“What’s wrong with you?”
Dinny swung calmly to the saddle. “Next time
you jerk at a horse’s mouth like you did a while back
you’ll know what it feels like!”
Bill blinked—and remembered.
His attitude toward the other members of the
camp varied considerably, and his first hastily con-
ceived opinions had to be constantly amended. Reg,
the horsetailer, who made capital of the newchum’s
mistakes and who took every opportunity to tease
and provoke him, raised a smouldering hate in the
youth ; Bill’s policy of snubbing and ignoring the man
merely had the effect of goading him further.
Old George, the cook, he tended to despise, and
he persisted in treating young Mac with aloofness, in
spite of, or perhaps because of, the boy’s attempts at
friendliness. The fact was that both were possessed
of the self-consciousness of youth that copies the
pattern of its elders and tries to ignore the speech
and habits of its juniors.
Mac Andrew he regarded with respect. He was
his boss, he had given him his chance, and he was
determined that old Mac should not repent his
bargain.
But it was the taciturn Dinny who received his
homage and toward whom the wall of reserve he
raised against the others was never in evidence. Dinny
was always right; he never appeared to hurry, but he
was always on the spot to divert strange sheep sud-
denly appearing in front of the mob, or to sense when
a few weary stragglers had been cut off and left
behind.
Another and a more subtle influence accounted
for his preference. Mac Andrew’s interest was J centred
in the sheep. Everything was subordinated to their
interests ; his personal comfort and that of the camp
came second to the well-being of the flock. He had
little interest in horses, or even in his dogs, except in
that they were necessary for the management of the
sheep.
After a few days Bill decided that sheep were the
stupidest creatures God ever made. Horses were dif-
ferent—you could do things with them ; and on a
horse Bill felt an added sense of superiority. And
dogs were intelligent; in fact, he fully intended to
get one at the earliest opportunity.
Subconsciously he recognised Mac as the sheep-
man, Dinny as the horseman ; and there lay the root
of his worship of the quietly competent stockman,
sitting and handling his horse not so much as though
he were part of it as though it were 'part of him, and
inseparable from the long, supple stockwhip looped
over his right forearm. Dinny was his model, and in
these days, when opinions were altered daily, a deep
resolve was born that
never altered, but grew
stronger with the pass-
ing days—Bill decided
that, whatever the cost,
he would be a horse-
man.
One day as they
Were nearing Aramac
a boundary-rider who
had come down to see
them through his pad-
dock casually men-
tioned that he had a
dog for sale. “He ain’t
much of a worker,
mind you; but he’ll
drive sh e e p.” Bill
jumped at the oppor-
tunity, and when the
station man joined
them next morning, fol-
lowed by a showy
black -and - white-and-
tan collie, he wasted no
time in bargaining.
“You can have ’im
for a quid if he’ll fol-
low you.”
Bill dragged at his
money-belt, handed
oyer a sovereign and
accepted the dog be-
fore the man changed
his mind. He led the
dog proudly round the
{Continued on page 50.)


About Your Indigestion
I
*
ft
m
as
o
si°
INTESTINES
>4
JL
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE
Painful distension of the
stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE
Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE
Duodenal ulcers. Excess
outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain of
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITTS ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6]
Final Instalment:-
ISLAND HERITAGE
BY ALISON SMITH
a(DJ3TJIRATlCnu
ff> tK Tr<DW/«3J5CH(r
Chapter XXIII.
JAMES LAURENCE lay
in his big bed calmly
awaiting the inevitable.
He knew well enough the time that re-
mained to him was not long. He was not
in pain, and he took a curious, perverse
satisfaction in this last imperative rest-
ing—he who had not been a man to spare
himself or rest long at any time.
He knew very well that he had not
been the same man since Rod’s death.
That had been the last blow ; it had told
on him more shrewdly than he admitted
to himself. Stiffnecked, obstinate old
man, he had gone indomitably on, and
had later disregarded certain curious
fleeting stabs of pain, such as had never
before troubled him. They culminated
in a sudden, severe stroke that left him
almost helpless—physically a broken man
at last, as he was already broken in heart.
Elena, terrified, sent for the magistrate,
who was —as was necessary in that par-
ticular district—a qualified doctor.
Laurence, on his arrival, had asked for
the truth. He had regained some measure
of command over his voices—he had been
speechless at first —but it seemed to have
blurred a little and thickened.
“What’s this mean, Sellars? Finish?”
The magistrate hesitated.
“Out with it. Don’t spare me. Life
isn’t worth so much. Is it the end? I
can see it is, by your face.”
“You’re very ill.”
“Man—l know that. I’m asking you
for the truth. I’ve a lot to put in order.
Let me have it.”
“I can’t hide if, old man,” said Sellars.
“I believe it is. Mind you, I may be
wrong. In any case, you’ll have to take
the greatest care of yourself. Lie up.
Take things very easily. Another attack
might finish everything.”
“Ah,” said Laurence calmly. “I’m glad
to know where I stand. I want you to
draw up anew will for me. I put it off
—not thinking this was coming.”
His affairs in order, he turned again
to this new, brief ease.
He had rallied a little later —had been
able to walk with the aid of a stout stick
to the copra shed, the lines and the
Fijian quarters; to sit in the pleasant
shade of the trees he had planted in those
early days about the homestead. And,
hard man that he was, it touched him to
see how Fijians and Indians —and the few
Solomons —were concerned about his
condition. Big Semeli, ageing now like
himself, appeared, anxious, at his elbow
when he walked too far. He snapped at
Semeli —but, nevertheless, the big man’s
concern touched him.
The Indian women—some of whom
had come to Ruvia as growing girls—
crowded round with their salaams and
flashing smiles ; the Fijian women smiled,
too, and rallied him in the Island tongue.
He liked to see smiling faces; they
heartened him —as did this strong
loyalty. After all, he had had much
from life.
Later, he began to feel that even the
short walks he took were too much for
him ; they seemed to bring back again the
little ominous stabs of pain. It was then
that he took finally to his bed, with Semeli
a devoted henchman. He felt that he
must conserve what strength remained to
him till Ruve returned. He knew that
Sellars had sent for her. But, lying there,
he governed Ruvia still as best he could.
To his bedside came the Indian Sirdar
for his orders. “See to that, Sirdar —and
this. My day’s over, but there’s one to
come after me.” He could trust the Sirdar.
The curtains were drawn back from
the window so that the sunlight streamed
in. “Light—while I can have it,” the
dying man said with a touch of ironic
humor. “It will be dark enough pres-
ently.” He desired, too, to look long on
the land he loved outside —he could see,
propped up on his pillows, beyond the
lawn across the stretch of coconuts he had
planted years ago, the slopes of the ris-
ing hill. Below them were two graves,
Madeline’s and one, not there so long,
that held young Vivien. His own would
be beside them.
He thought often of Vivien, who had
died so young. He could see, too, across
the green sea tide the break of the surf
on the reef where he and Semeli had
faced death on the night of the hurricane.
Back to him came the surge and clamor
of that perilous rush through lightning-
stabbed darkness. That was life —to take
great odds and conquer—to live like a
man and die like one. Rod had died a
man’s death —he wondered if at the last
Rod, too, had felt that rush of exulta-
tion that made men laugh at death.
There was silence through the home-
stead. Sometimes Elena —the tall, dark
woman who had once meant all the
world to him and was now nothing—
passed noiselessly through. She seemed
in her comparative youth to pity him ;
to hell with her pity—he didn’t want it.
Now that he was wholly weak, she was
kind and gentle ; perhaps she would weep
for him. Woman’s nature was un-
fathomable. The waiting silence, the dig-
nity, appealed to that ever-active drama-
tic sense in him. In this orderly manner
of dying he seemed to be achieving the
last grand gesture.
In all but prosperity he had been con-
quered ; as if, he fancied, some malig-
nant or, say, inexorable fate had inter-
vened. But to the last he would not
admit defeat; he felt deeply, too, a
solace in the thought that the land he
loved would hold him in burning and
azure days, in warm, starred, perfect
nights, till the appointed ending. He
could almost see the leaves of the trees
on the hillside, so clear and golden was
this calm light that enfolded him in dig-
nity and peace. It would, he was sure,
be like that to the end.
It was strange how life ebbed back
when one was dying; he drowsed at
times, and then it was as if his brain or
subconscious self, whichever it was that
controlled such vision, had become extra-
ordinarily clarified. Vividly the past
came back; scenes he had forgotten for
years were re-enacted, but this time
it was as if he were the spectator of his
youth. Little foreign towns he had
visited showed brighter and clearer for
their distance in time —he saw again the
honey-haired girl who had given him the
first kiss he had ever had from a woman,
except his mother. She, too, his mother,
small and grey-haired, with the compel-
ling blue eyes that had never faded, came
into these scenes. She sat and appeared
to censure him for that arrogance she,
at least, had never known.
One, more insistent than all now, came
back to him. Madeline, the brown-
haired, the shy-eyed, the long-forgotten,
returned —a gentle ghost, who had given
royally in life and claimed nothing.
Clearly it became apparent to the dying
man that, of all the women vivid now in
his memory, Madeline alone had loved
him. Tessa, who had given him Rod,
had left him ; Elena, who had taken so
lightly his passionate love and lavished
hers on another, had deceived him. Both
of them had been faithless. But
Madeline had loved him. “You alone,
my girl,” he said to her appealing shade.
“And —fool that I was —I thought more
of a dark wanton’s little finger than of
you, Madeline.”
With the desire of the dying—who have
so little left to desire—he longed for the
daughter of Madeline to forgive. But
he knew his own hardness was in her ;
he felt she would never soften till she, too,
lingered at the brink of the abyss where
all life ends—to which he drew inexor-
ably closer. One saw life more clearly
when one was at the edge of it.
Lying there, clear enough in mind as
he rested, he thought, too, of Rod and
Vivien. “A man after all,” he said often.
“I misjudged him. He died like a man,
my poor Rod.” There was pride as well
as grief in the thought of Rod. But he
fretted over Vivien. That look of in-
credulous horror in her dark eyes when
he had turned on her came back ; she
had been too young to die, though she
had seemed to welcome death.
He heard, as he lay there one golden
afternoon, the long cry of “Sail ho! ” ring
up from the beach. “Not much too
soon,” he said aloud. “I haven’t much
longer. But I’ll see Ruve and her boy.”
He was aware of the need for caution ;
he felt excitement rising in him at the
long-looked-for event. “Quietly,” he
said, warning himself. “Keep hold, or
you’ll be beaten yet.” And, indomitable
old schemer, he pleased himself, as he
had done so often since he had known
of his birth, with the thought of Ruve’s
son growing up to inherit rich Ruvia.
Another and luckier Rod! It was a good
thought; and this time he saw no reason
to doubt success. The moment seemed
at hand at last, and he a dignified figure,
waiting in the serenity that had so often
evaded him the coming of the successor
who was his own flesh and blood. He
wished only that Ruve could have for-
given him wholeheartedly ; that he would
see what he had never seen, tenderness,
in her eyes that had always looked on
him as if he were a stranger, if not an
enemy ; wished that the cold kiss of duty
she would give him would be warm with
pity and love. Vain hope —he relin-
quished it. But he would see her boy.
To Dick and Ruve, as the schooner
glided through the Ruvia Passage on
that bright afternoon, came thronging
memories, but the woman’s were most
poignant. There again before her, cast-
ing its shadow into the calm waters,
rose peaked Ruvia that had moulded
so much of her life. Her hand closed
on little Roddy’s—what fortune did
Ruvia hold for him? She was for a
moment afraid. She looked at Dick,
who was still such a gaunt shadow of
the Dick who had sailed away so buoy-
antly with so many who had not re-
turned. Perhaps here in the isles he
loved strength would come slowly back
to him. It was all in the future.
They landed on the black, remembered
wharf—went up to the quiet house.
Elena looked very much older-
darker, too. She was beginning to re-
semble Batila, who, too, came un-
changed, except for the whitening of her
stiff hair, out of the door of the little
bure she always used on her visits.
“Your father,” said Elena, “is very
ill. I think he will not live very much
longer. He has kept himself alive just
to see you. He is anxious to see the boy.
I won’t go in with you —he wants to
see you alone.”
She saw her father, lying in his big
bed ; she saw his expectant eyes turned
to her and felt again for a moment that
old fear and distrust of him. It kept
her motionless by the door while it held.
Something flickered out in the old man’s
eyes—he could hardly speak for emo-
tion, but he made a grim effort. Words
came at last.
“Well, Ruve! We’ve played out a
long game, my girl—each of us bitter
against the other. You’re left, and I’m
going—going fast. Rod’s dead, and
Vivien, too, who was no daughter of
mine. But I loved her —better than you
I loved her.”
She was silent.
“You’re hard still,” he said suddenly,
amazing her. “Not like your mother.
She would have made it easier to say
what I want to say. But —it’s no matter
—it’s no matter. Too late now for both
of us to start again.”
Emotion stirred in her, but she could
not speak.
“Where’s Dick?” he said fretfully, like
a disappointed man. “I want to see
Dick—good fellow, Dick —softer than
you, my girl. And the boy.”
She turned to the door to find Dick
at it.
“Bring Rod,” she whispered. “He
seems strange —so excited —and strange-
looking. Bring him quickly.”
“Ah, Dick,” said the dying man, hold-
ing out a feeble hand. “You’re none
too soon, you see. You had better luck
than my poor Rod, but I’m glad to see
you. And this is the boy?”
The little lad gazed at him with clear,
direct eyes that did not falter from the
old man’s searching regard. The shak-
ing old hand rested awhile on his fair
head.
“He’ll do,” he said, with something of
a grim chuckle. “Steel in him, or I’m
mistaken. There’s a future for Ruvia yet. v
He moved, suddenly tired, and Dick
drew the wondering child quietly away.
Laurence, looking up, saw his daughter
bending over him —a divine pity and
tenderness in her eyes.
“Father,” she said, and kissed him.
There was at last no need for words. He
shut his eyes. She saw slow tears forc-
ing their way beneath the lids.
He did not open them again.
The End.


A Silent Servant
f
alwaui ieaJ.i
to
A-CXVt 14011
YOUR cheque book is a silent servant,
always ready to serve you in your
financial affairs. It enables you, with the
necessary credit
—to write a cheque anywhere —at home, shop
or office.
—to write a cheque any time —during or out-
side business hours.
—to send money anywhere—safely and
conveniently.
■—to have a receipt at your bank in the form
of a cancelled cheque, endorsed by the
payee if drawn "to order."
—to obtain an accurate statement of your
account at regular intervals.
■ —to obtain cash when you want it.
■—to keep your balance safely deposited until
you need it.
Cheque accounts are opened at all branches
of this Bank.
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ľ
HEAD OFFICE: 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Sydney Branch: 350 GEORGE ST. (opp. Wynyard St.),
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President) H. ROGERS P. KEARNS
(J&ri/em&M
'D
& }<&
©
me
U
Ac 2
awe vs
OKMuros
Distributors for the House of McCollum *
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Adelaide
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Luv Will Find a Way:—
THE MATRIMONIAL
CODE.
BY
MATT MOLONEY.
Illustrations by Scorfield.
DESPITE the private opinions of many
listeners, radio announcers are only
human after all, so when Uncle
Willie met Miss Onyx Jones at the 8BO
community sing-song it was a case of
love at first sound.
The crucial moment came when Willie
was sent down from the stage to investi-
gate a disturbance in the front stalls, only
to find that Onyx, a shrill soprano, had
turned over the wrong page in the song-
book and was half-way down “The Road
to Gundagai” before the rest of the
crowd had got into the swing of “The
Man on the Flying Trapeze.”
Impressed by her shy confusion, Willie
guided her safely through the rest of the
programme, and in between the top notes
he was able to gain a clearer impression of
her beauty. When she finally stopped
singing he knew he had met his soul-
mate.
“I hope you’ll be here again to join
our happy little party next Wednesday,
Miss Er-er-er?” asked Willie eagerly.
“Oo! I’d love to,” she giggled. “My
name’s Miss Jones—Miss Onyx Jones.”
“I’m Uncle Willie,” he explained
modestly.
“Oh! I wouldn’t say that,” she said,
with a sympathetic glance. Then, as she
realised the full portent of his remark,
“ I’d love to.”
she hastened
to exclaim,
“Not Willie
Wake-up, the
early - morn-
in g story
man? Oo! I
always listen
to you when
I’m in bed.”
Willie
blushed with
modesty on
two counts,
but won an
easy promise
that she
would see
h i m again.
She omitted
t o mention
that she had attended the concert
solely to see the owner of the vibrant
voice which brought more early-morning
comfort than her hot-water bottle.
At subsequent concerts Onyx was true
to her promise. No matter how crowded
the city hall became, Willie always knew
where to find her. The quality of her
soprano isolated her from the multitude.
Later their radio friendship ripened
into love, but, of necessity, their court-
ship was handicapped. Onyx worked in
an office by day, whilst Willie’s hours
were broken and arduous. Not only was
he Willie Wake-up in the morning session,
but he was also Uncle Willie Wombat in
the Children’s Happy Moments and
Weary Willie in the Sleep Tight Blanket
Hour.
By synchronising his midday pie and
roll with a twelve-inch instead of
a ten-inch record he managed to keep
body and soul together. But he
was deprived of the ordinary pleasures,
such as walking in the park, having
Sunday-night tea with her family or
holding hands in the pictures. Any ordi-
nary man would not have been able to
win out under such circumstances, but
Willie’s love-inspired ingenuity sur-
mounted all obstacles. He converted the
disabilities of his business captivity into
an ethereal wooing.
Every announcement given out during
his sessions at the microphone contained
a hidden message for his palpitating
listener. Such mundane matters as mar-
ket reports were excepted, of course,
although Onyx persisted in interpreting
a romantic thrill into the mere mention
that “prime Tasmanian mangoldwurzels
brought 9s. 6d. a ton, f.o.b., c.o.d.,
e. & o.e.”
Willie chose only the most romantic
titles for his records, and Onyx, who
knew that they were intended for her,
nearly swooned with joy one night when
he announced “Our next musical item
will be ‘My Love So Chaste,’ by Paul
Triteman and his orchestra, composed
by Schnitzer and Katz, and recorded by
Razzerphone.”
Actually, he was in a happy position.
When he suspected that a neighboring
swain was a potential rival, it was a
simple matter to slip a message into the
birthday calls:
“And now we have a call for little
Onyx Jones, who is listening-in at 13
Dementia-avenue. A little bird tells me
that you’ve been talking to some of the
rough, horrid boys in your street, and
Uncle Willie will be very cross if he
hears of it again. However, if you are
a good little girl you’ll find a pleasant
surprise on your doorstep just before
bedtime.”
Willie was his own surprise, but unfor-
tunately his ideas of bedtimes did not
coincide with those of Mr. Jones, senior.
The nocturnal visitations to the doorstep
led to a searching analysis of his
intentions.
Above all, Willie was a gentleman. To
avoid general inconvenience, he managed
to take off enough time between relays
of the tin-hare races to get married.
It was done very economically, too,
for Willie had the foresight to have the
ceremony sponsored by the Honey-
mooners’ Home Service Agency. “ ‘Cre-
mate Your Cooking Cares in Cans.’ We
tin every known delicacy. Your husband
will never know the difference.”
AFTER two weeks of married bliss
“ Willie developed abnormal muscles in
the right arm through leverage on a tin-
opener. He tired of spaghetti, baked
beans, salmon and pressed beef. As
Onyx slowly progressed with her cook-
ing, under the influence of lessons given
out over the air by Willie’s co-worker
Aunt Ermyntrude, his mouth watered
with thoughts of what he would like for
supper. Although his home was not on
the telephone, he could convey his wishes
to her:
“Housewives! Do you have trouble
with your legs of mutton? How often
do you find your best fork twisted in
the brisket? What could be nicer than
a meal of juicy pork chops from Gore
and Brine, the family butchers, of High-
street? They are famed for their ‘Tasty
Titbits for Tender Tooty Pegs.’ ”
It was so easy. Onyx might be absent-
minded, but Willie thought of every-
thing. She was guided by his announce-
ments.
“The Commonwealth Weather Bureau
states that a southern disturbance is
approaching on the left wing, with the
apex of the cyclonic movement hovering
near the gasworks. Listeners would be
well advised to shut the bathroom win-
dow and cover the canary.”
And so the successful arrangement
continued.
UNCLE Willie’s time of arrival home
depended on the length of the station
programme. Usually he played the
dreamy good-night tune “Let’s Send the
Sandman to Sock You to Sleep” at
10.45 p.m., caught his regular train at
10.50, and was kissed on his front door-
After two weeks of married bliss.
step at 11.15. Sometimes, however, the
programme varied. For instance, on that
occasion when the Bin Bin Ladies’ Choir
kept missing the turn-off into the last
chorus of a Handel oratorio he did not
get away until 11.30 p.m.
Onyx had been frantic, and had gone
so far as to instruct the police to search
the trainline for his body.
Usually the final item of the session
enabled him to save the situation. To


IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
INTRODUCING
THE LATEST
“TUMBA” SADDLE
THE
No. 167
TOOMA
m
POLEY
£12/7/6
(BARE)
£13/10/-
(COMPLEXE)
The Haps are
24in. long, the
pads are 3£in. high
and the seat has a
good dip.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Cata-
logue No. 361 ; over 70 Saddles listed.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Largest Circulations
In Queensland.
THE
COURIER-MAIL
The net average cir-
culation for October,
1935, was 69,061 copies
daily. Here is by far
the largest circulation in the Queensland daily field and
the essential basis of any Queensland campaign.
THE
SUNDAY MAIL
Second only to “The
Courier-Mail” in cir-
culation, “The Sunday
Mail” enjoyed a net
circulation of 64,686 copies per issue for October, 1935.
Obviously it must be the second medium selected for any
Queensland campaign
Enquire about the Combined Advertising Rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
the mail, train and shipping notices he
decided to add a facetious reference of
his own:
“In conclusion, I have to advise that
the Sleepy Town Express will leave on
time, so all aboard for a good night’s rest.
Bunky-doo, everyone.”
If detained, he altered the formula by
announcing that the S.T.E. would “leave
about ten minutes later than usual.”
Thus Mrs. Willie knew what train to
expect him by.
He was able to convince the manage-
ment that it gave the radio station a
touch of human interest, and the scheme
worked very well until a serious com-
plaint came from the
Railways Department. It
appeared that a commer-
cial traveller who had
heard an announcement
that the Sleepy Town Ex-
press would leave five
minutes later than usual
had allowed himself
that much margin in
catching his train for
Albury, thus missing an
almost certain sale in
birdseed.
Then followed a
spirited protest from the
Albury Chamber of
Commerce against the
slur on its progressive
“Cut it out!”
city. Fourteen other towns in different
parts of the State also claimed that they
had been libelled.
“Cut out that Sleepy Town Express
gag from all railway announcements,”
came the managerial edict.
“Including to-night’s?” asked Willie
anxiously.
“Yes! From now on. Cut it out.
Any breach will be regarded seriously.”
It was a minor tragedy.
Willie had not anticipated a previous
request to stay behind to assist in the
annual stocktaking of the station’s
gramophone records.
It would be close on midnight before
he could get away, and here he was with-
out a means of letting his wife know he
would be late.
Maybe she would understand that
something had happened when he did
not give his usual code message. She
would have to, anyway.
So he confined his
closing remarks to the
official railway report:
“... .and, in conclusion,
the Railways Depart-
partment requests us to
advise that the special
week-end excursion to
the Mountains leaves at
7.30 a.m. to-morrow, re-
turning to the city at 11
p.m. Sunday night.
Ticket-holders for the
carriage reserved for the
Ladies’ Tennis Associa-
tion should be on the
platform ten minutes
before the train departs.”
lie then played the Anthem, signalling
the end of the night’s entertainment, and
joined the other station menials in the
task of sorting crooners from other
recordings of miscellaneous noises. The
work was not completed for nearly an
hour, owing to absence
without leave of one
Bing Crosby record and
two of “The Men of
Harlech,” and he dashed
out to catch the last
train at 11.55 p.m. It
seemed to take twice the
usual time on the jour-
ney, but Willie en-
deavored to make up the
leeway by sprinting the
final lap home from the
station.
He arrived breathless
and astounded.
There was no light in
the window! That was
Sprinting the final lap.
unprecedented. Perhaps Onyx had grown
tired of waiting and had gone to bed.
But when he found both the front
and back doors locked he was really
perturbed.
Frenzied rappings brought no response,
and he had visions of his beloved Onyx
abducted or even slaughtered. Climbing
through the pantry window, he found no
signs of a struggle and no signs of Onyx.
Not even a note explaining her absence.
Occasionally she spent the evening
hours with a next-door neighbor whose
husband was a seafaring man.
WILLIE knocked anxiously at Mrs.
Fotsell’s door, and it seemed that his
neighbor was even more surprised than
the lateness of the hour might suggest.
“Is the wife here?
What’s happened to
her? Where is she?”
he shouted excitedly,
without waiting for any
answers.
Mrs. Fotsell com-
pressed her lips and re-
garded him severely.
“Where is she?” he
repeated.
“You ought to ask,
you scamp,” said Mrs.
Fotsell righteously.
“Gone back to her
mother’s, of course.”
“But why . . . what?” stammered
Willie.
“That’s right! Pretend you don’t
know. Just like all you men. I sup-
pose you got scared at the last minute
and changed your mind.”
Mrs. Fotsell was enjoying herself
immensely.
Willie pulled himself together.
“I should be pleased,” he said, “if you
would explain what you’re talking
about.”
Mrs. Fotsell sniffed.
“Sending the poor dear messages that
you were going on a week-end to the
Mountains with a team of women. Serve
you right if she divorces you.”
An Unusual Yarn:-
THE MACAW MAN
BY LAN MUDIE.
NEVIS and Tulloch stood talking on
one of the flower-bordered walks
of the zoological gardens. In the
distance there was a chatter of monkeys,
and occasionally the lions roared lazily.
A bright sun did its best to make it seem
that bars were the natural environment
of the animals and birds. Tulloch’s eyes
roamed the cages occasionally, but Nevis,
being one of the attendants, accepted it
all as an everyday part of life.
“I suppose you get some queer cus-
tomers nosing about here at times?”
Tulloch inquired.
Nevis chuckled. “We certainly do!”
he exclaimed, pointing. “That’s one of
’em there, over by the macaws. That
funny-looking little chap.”
Tulloch followed his gaze. A small,
middle-aged man was standing in front
of a cage with folded arms. He appeared
to be glaring in an unfriendly manner
at the birds in the cage in front of him.
“It doesn’t seem as though he likes those
birds,” he observed to Nevis.
“Like them! He always seems to be
glaring at them, but he must like them,
all the same. He spends all his time
when he’s here standing in front of
them macaws. Gawd knows why.”
“How often does he come here?”
“Every bloomin’ Sunday. Comes in
about five minutes after the gates are
opened. Stays till the time we shut up.”
“But you don’t mean to say that he
stays in front of that same cage all
day, every Sunday?”
“Yes. Always by himself. When any-
one else comes along towards that cage
he dodges off and sits on that seat over
there till they’re gone. He brings his
lunch in a paper bag and eats it at
intervals like that. But he never leaves
the birds except when someone else looks
like coming towards the cage. Why,
some wet days I’ve seen him stand there
all day with an umbrella over his head,
and when he’s left he’s still been carry-
ing the paper bag with his lunch in it.”
TULLOCH was puzzled. Here was
something which was outside his con-
ception of the rules of human conduct
as learned in the selling of vacuum-
cleaners. “I wonder what the attraction
can be,” he mused. “They’re lovely birds.
I shouldn’t think there’s a more beauti-
ful shade of blue in the world than
their plumage. But the chap can’t be an
artist, just looking at them for the sake
of their coloring. Otherwise he’d pay a
bit of attention to the peacocks and the
other birds in the zoo,”
Nevis shrugged his shoulders. “Not
even an artist’d be that barmy as to
spend every Sunday of the year, wet or
fine, looking at a couple of birds. An'
he’s never tried to paint them.”
“No ; he couldn’t be an artist. Do
the birds talk much? Do you think
that can be the attraction?”
“No. We’ve never been able to get
’em to say more than ‘Hullo.’ And if
he wanted birds that talked he could go
along and see a parrot we got from a
sailor. It can swear in three languages,
that one.”
“Oh, well, all I can say is that the
man must be crazy,” commented Tul-
loch wonderingly. “Does he ever do
anything to the birds?”
“Oh, he scratches their heads occa-
sionally. But otherwise he just stands
close to the bars and looks at them.
Sometimes he folds his arms like he’s
doing now. He must be bloomin’ well
crazy.”
“Does he ever feed them, or any-
thing?”
“Now I come to think of it', he does.
It’s always when he thinks there’s no
one else in sight. Then he pulls a tin
out of his pocket, breaks a bit off some-
thing he carries in it, and offers it to
the birds. But he doesn’t give it to ’em
straight off. He seems to whisper to
’em, and then after a bit he gives it to
’em, and then in a minute or so he
scratches their polls.”
“Oh, well, I suppose you’ll solve the
problem one of these days.”
“We might,” said Nevis sceptically,
“but more likely we mightn’t. There’s
lots of funny people comes along here.
They come regularly for a bit, and then
they disappears, and we never see ’em
again.”
He prepared to move off. As he
nodded to Tulloch and moved off down
the path he concluded, “But we’ve never
had one what was cuckoo over a pair of
macaws before.”
When he had gone, Tulloch stood for
some time watching the little man in
front of the macaws. Then he made
a detour around some cages and
approached him from the seat which
Nevis had pointed out.
The little man saw him coming, and
quickly moved away from the cage, com-
ing towards the seat. As they passed,
Tulloch noticed abnormally bright eyes
in a pale face. Above the eyes a thin
wisp of hair hung down across the fore-
head. From the folded arms of the little
man dangled a half-empty paper bag.
A battered biscuit-tin protruded from
his pocket.
The little man made his way to the
seat and continued what must have been
an interrupted meal. Tulloch knew that
he was watching him, waiting for him to
move away. But he stayed some time
in front of the macaws. The mystery
was puzzling him.


HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“THREE HOUSES,”
by
A. C. HEADLEY.
x'Ai
m
feifW
wmi
wW
*; '•& "„'' > n*'4
.jm^ja&
: » i/ : \k, >: % ,*«
ss
m
Be the design classic or modern,
flawless beauty, diamond cut and
sparkle, and exquisite symmetry dis-
tinguish every piece of Stuart Crystal.
English hand - made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold
Sole Representatives
(wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.
317-23 Flinders Eane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House, 204, Clarence Street,
Sydney
Stuart
Crystal
I LONDON’S LEADING
HOTELS
! Make a note of these addresses for
I yourself and your friends.
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger Lifts.
Garages, Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Running Water. Exchange telephone and
gas tires in all bedrooms. Vegetarians
catered for if desired. BRIDGE, BIL-
LIARDS, TABLE TENNIS and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single, from 4 guineas.
Double, from 7 guineas.
Tele: Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its new Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 34 guineas Single.
64 guineas Double.
Tele: Padd. 6001.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 5022.
Accommodation for 60 guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8431.
Accommodation for 00 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as Bed-sitting Rooms. Owing
to their popularity you are advised to
secure accommodation —if possible—in
advance. Terms: Single, from 3 guineas.
Double, from 5 guineas.
The above hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB.
ssiii
-
*0:
< ■— j.
-> t
a
1
>» JT^^W-1
all
if
4& p«-S2
TO ENGLAND ||
the Scenic Route . 1 ||jfj
Fortnighty Sailings via ''
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney. Melbourne.
ImudirndiutialaiumMiwnfiiM
m
Perhaps, he mused, the little man had
read books of adventure in his youth,
and still longed to visit the South Ameri-
can jungles. Probably he was tied to
some humdrum job, and these huge blue
birds were the nearest he could get to
his dream. Maybe they called to his
vision the colors of the Amazon and the
mysterious, thrilling reaches of the
Orinoco . . .
But then he noticed something which
seemed to discount such imaginings.
Apparently he had surprised the little
man in the midst of feeding his macaw
friends, and a scrap of food had fallen
to the ground outside the bars. Idly
he turned it over with his foot. It was
a piece of brown bread, buttered on
both sides, and with sugar sprinkled on
the butter. Surely the little man would
have brought something more tropical—
some exotic fruit—if he had wished to
dream of the Amazon. Pawpaw, pine-
apple, banana. But perhaps it was not
in the South American jungles that such
fruit grew . . .
As he moved away the macaws
shrieked raucously after him. Before
he was out of sight of their cage the
little man was back in his place. This
time he was standing with one foot
slightly forward, one hand in the buttons
of his coat, and one hand behind his
back.
TEN days later Tulloch was prepar-
ing to drive homeward after his day’s
work when he saw a familiar figure
scurry across the road and push his
way on to the step of a crowded tram.
The itch of mystery-solving hot within
him, Tulloch started up his car and
began to follow the tram.
When the little man alighted in a re-
spectably monotonous suburb, Tulloch
left his car at the corner of the street
down which he had turned, and walked
slowly up the street behind him. He
noted the number of the house into which
the little man entered, and went back
to his car. The next day, he hoped,
would take him a little way towards the
solving of the mystery.
But next day brought only a tangle
of jumbled clues, none of which seemed
to point straight towards an explanation
of the strange conduct of the little man.
The woman who opened the door of
the house was timid and colorless —fit
mate, thought Tulloch, for her husband.
He swept his hat into his hand. “Good
morning; I represent the Eversuck
Vacuum Cleaner Company. I’m not
here so much to sell you one of our
cleaners as to show you how good it is.”
“Well, I haven’t got a vacuum cleaner,
but I’m afraid” :
He took his chance before she could
go on. “You haven’t got a vacuum
cleaner! In that case I’m sure you’ll let
me bring this model inside to show you
what a difference it would make to your
carpets if you had one.”
She showed him into the house timidly,
more as though she couldn’t think of an
excuse to keep him out than from a
desire to see the Eversuck demonstrated.
“Now, Mrs.—er”
"Mrs. Fletcher.” She volunteered her
name as though in surprise that he
should wish to learn it.
“Now, Mrs. Fletcher,” he went on,
let’s have a look at your sitting-room
carpet. Five minutes on it with the Ever-
suck and I’m sure you’ll see what you’re
missing by not having one.”
She pushed open a door. “Well, "you
see, I'm afraid there’s not much room in
nere for you to demonstrate, but you can
try if you like.”
Tulloch saw. One half of the floor
v-as covered with children’s lead sol-
diers in old-fashioned uniforms. Card-
board hills and houses and imitation
j re^ s i* ecorate d the carpet, while gallant
lead figures rode horses or stood behind
guns. Many lay upon the ground, appar-
ently the slain of a great battle.
He stared at the strange scene. He
-ad not thought of the little man as
possessing children.
v. rs - Fletcher fidgeted beside him. “My
1 u^ and is very interested in military
Problems. And last night . . . and last
night he was working out how he could
„ dAe ae feated Wellington at Waterloo,
>en though Bliicher arrived in time.”
Tulloch found it difficult to discover
words. At last he murmured, almost
foolishly, “He must be very interested
in military problems —very interested
indeed.”
“Oh, yes, he is. He’s very good at it
too. He’s wond Why, last year he
worked out the whole of the Spanish
campaign from memory.”
“He must put in a lot of time on it.”
“He does. Every other evening he
spends in writing his book, and the rest
of his evenings and every Saturday after-
noon he works out campaigns like this
with toy soldiers.”
“And how about Sundays?”
She looked at him for a few seconds,
and then: “He goes out to take exer-
cise,” she told him lamely.
It was obvious that direct questionings
would reveal nothing of Mr. Fletcher’s
Sunday secret. Perhaps the book he
was writing would be more suggestive.
It might even be about South America
or perhaps, prosaically, a study of the
habits of hyacinthine macaws. “Oh, is
your husband an author?” he asked the
woman as he unpacked the vacuum-
cleaner.
“Oh, no ; he’s in a bank. But he’s
writing a very important military work.”
“Oh, that’s interesting. What’s it to
be called?”
Mrs. Fletcher blushed. “Well, as a
matter of fact, he’s going to call it ‘How
One Might Conquer the World.’ ” Then,
as though in apology, “It’s to be a big
book, you see.”
“Yes, I would say it would have to
be pretty large. I wouldn’t like to take
it on myself.”
“Oh, but he’ll be able to do it. He
knows everything about things like that.
He’s a military genius.”
She repeated the cliche with such con-
fidence that Tulloch was astounded. “Has
he been a soldier?” he asked.
“Oh, no, but he’s read everything on
the subject. He’s so clever, you see.”
Tulloch began to demonstrate the
vacuum-cleaner. For a while he was
very businesslike, but all the time he was
closely observing the room. At one end
of the carpet stood the miniature repro-
duction of Napoleon’s greatest and final
defeat, reproduced as a theoretical vic-
tory. A tumbled mass of military books
filled three sets of shelves. Views of
Elba and St. Helena were on the walls.
But nowhere were there any signs of
interest in hyacinthine macaws.
His salesmanship was useless. Despite
her timidity of manner, Mrs. Fletcher
would have nothing to do with Eversuck
cleaners. She seemed to think the money
would be better spent in buying her
husband more books and more lead
soldiers.
“But, my dear lady, don’t you realise
how much you are denying yourself?”
The colorless little woman drew her-
self up proudly. “I would do anything
for my husband. I would even let him
divorce me if he needed to.”
Tulloch tried hard to repress a smile.
Even divorce seemed too heroic for this
strange couple. But before she could
notice his amusement he went on with
unintentional irony, “Oh, well, we all
must have our hobbies, I suppose.”
And then, still in pursuit of the mys-
tery of the macaws, and lying for his
purpose, “I myself keep parrots. Did
you ever keep parrots, Mrs. Fletcher?”
“Well, George and I did keep a pair.
But we got rid of them.”
“Why was that? Didn’t you like
them?”
“No ; it wasn’t that. You see, my hus-
band found that they would repeat to
other people the things he had taught
them to say.”
Tulloch saw by her face that she had
said more than she meant to and did not
mean to say any more, so he made his
farewell, cherishing the thought of the
information he had gleaned concerning
the little man of Ihe macaws. Maybe
he and Nevis could come near to un-
covering his secret.
ON the following Sunday afternoon
Tulloch and Nevis stood watching the
little man in front of the macaw cage.
With eager hands he was holding food
towards them. Their evil-looking beaks
reached out towards him, but he leaned
near to them, whispering.
“That’s what we’ve got to do,” Tulloch
observed to his companion. “I’ve got
some brown bread and butter and sugar,
and we’ll stroll along in a minute and
repeat the procedure. We won’t know
what to whisper to them, but we can do
the rest. And I’m pretty sure that if we
can get them to speak we’ll learn the
whole secret.”
“Hang on,” Nevis ejaculated quickly ;
“we can’t do it while he’s about. He
might make a scene. That’d be more’n
my job’s worth. You stay behind when
we shut up, and we can try it out after
he’s gone.”
Tulloch assented grudgingly, and for
the next half-hour he watched the little
man in front of the cage. Most of the
time he stared at the birds, and twice
he fed them from the biscuit-tin.
Somewhere a bell rang, and Fletcher,
with a last glance at the macaws behind
the bars, turned and went along the
path which led to the main gates. Tul-
loch noticed that he did not glance to
either side as he went.
Five minutes later the two stood in
front of the macaws. Tulloch pulled
from his pocket a slice of brown bread
which he had prepared for the birds.
Nevis, being nearer to the height of
the little man, broke off a piece and
held it towards the bars. The birds
stared at it and attempted to reach it
with their bills. Nevis shifted his hand
a little nearer to the bars.
The eye of the larger bird was cocked
longingly towards the food. He hung,
head downwards, on the bars and made
another attempt to reach it.
Suddenly, in a cajoling voice, the great
bird spoke. “Hullo, Napoleon,” it whis-
pered. “Vive VEmpereur !“ Its mate
echoed the words, “Vive VEmpereur!”
Nevis poked the bread between the
bars and turned disgustedly away. “Well,
of all the barmy, bloomin’ fools!” he
snorted.
But Tulloch’s eyes were shining with
triumph. “Oh, don’t you see,” he splut-
tered ; “that’s why he stands like that
and wears that silly little lock of hair
over his forehead.”
“Hullo, Napoleon,” croaked the birds.
“Vive I’Empereur ! ”


Delta Engineers Announce
New SCROLL SAW
v,
m
Send for our Illustrated
Delta Booklet —Post Free.
the last word in
modern scroll saws
COME IN
TODAY
OJftd A££. ihjZAZ
DELTA
TOOLS
-a precision tool that will stand up splendidly under the heavy grind of continuous heavy world
Incorporating many Important Improvements-
model will delight the heart of every " filin „ sanding and sabre-sawing. This saw
saw work, puzzle making, marquetry, metal sa m f or i lome workshops, factories,
3“ XSrtit^ers! B 32$ and fee this remarhahie too, in actlom
Basically dMerent Iron, any Scroll Saw on the m.rhet At «•-**»««
Scroll Saw has such perfect balance, suchtabseiice of..y l^ ol at full motor speed.
on the saw table without tipping SJfs'many special features. The New Delta Scroll Saw can also
Produces smooth, accurate work. Has many special xeanu
be used for filing, sanding and honing.
A COMPLETE LINE OF MOTOR-DRIVEN TOOLS
Delta Quality Tools Give Spare Time Pleasure and Profits!
These new motor-driven tools have revolutionised Priee^
Delta Tools are available for al| thpsfr who work witl moto d r .J Tiv J n t( f 0 ’ ls P save time, money and
factory production. Compact, practical, stuu f = oua iitv work. The Delta line includes:
Come in To-day for Demonstration.
c
Proprietary Limited
51-65 BATHURST ST SYDNEY
582-592 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
116-130 WAYMOUTH ST., ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY ST PERTH
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
, Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do It.
FRO VI “THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, w/ U FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
If any illustration in "The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
A MIXED GRILL.
There is a possibility of sheet steel
being manufactured in S.A. in the near
future. Distance from raw materials is
compensated for by proximity to
markets, as the largest users of this com-
modity are the motor-body builders
already firmly entrenched in S.A. The
proposal has Government support, and
fu C A U (V A U A + - 1
the S.A. Gas Co. has offered substantial
concessions in the puce of gas.
* * * *
“K.T.”: Probably the oldest vehicle
in N.S.W. still in active service is a
coach originally owned by the Rankins,
of Scotland, now at Bathurst. Besides all
its work on land, it has been three sea
voyages First brought to Australia from
Scotland m 1821, it was taken back to
he land °f ns origin 17 years later. In
1841 it emigrated once more, and was
sold to an undertaker. It is still in the
family and in constant employment.
J - *
„ , . nr, . a n? np
Roland Wilson, who succeeds E. T
McPhee as Commonwealth Statistician, is
trsrcss
5i v pn r c and has a strine of decrees
whirh inclnde the DPh 1 fOxonl and a
Ph.D. of Chicago. He was Tasmanian
Rhodes scholar in 1925, went to Oriel
College, won the Beit prize for Colonial
History at Oxford and crossed to Chicago
in 1928 on a Commonwealth Fund Fel-
lowship. When he returned to Australia,
he was Cobbett lecturer in economics at
the Tasmanian University 1930-32. He is
an authority on world capital movements,
and mixes an enthusiasm for tennis and
golf with a flair for carpentry.
b
* * * . * r j
“NMl”: Can’t understand what Lord
Phillimore had in his mind when, con-
demning sanctions in the House of Peers,
he said (B. 26/2/’36) that “Turkey and
Tt .i, t , .1
Yugoslavia have strained at the leash fo
years to recover what was taken from
them [in the war].” The Unspeakable,
admittedly, lost almost the only slice of
Europe that was left to him, but which
of Britain’s allies profited more territori-
ally by the Treaty of Versailles than
Serbia, now Yugoslavia? It acquired
Croatia and Slavonia, Bosnia, Herze-
80vina and parts of the Banat, Carniola
and Styna, and before this Montenegro
had decided to terminate rts separate exis-
! ence a , nd be “ me P a " ° f * e " e ®
ing realm. Pre-war Serbia had no sea-
bosard at a „. Yugoslavia has quite a
lengthy one. It's total area in 1914 was
given as 34,000 square miles ; now it is
96>0 00. What, then, does Yugoslavia
wan t to recover?
* * * *
Turlutu”; If Australia can
j eve i 0 p the promising trade in open
mo t or _bodies which is growing up with
As ian countries, it may become a big
closed patterns of body are
‘ j , r • ~
demanded for climatic reasons in all the
P"™P al 'car-producing countries but
they are too hot for the tropics; there
shelter from weather is needed only dur-
J comparatively short monsoonal
F f
which 1S m actlve demand from Aden
to Sai S on > and even before they gave up
u . stralian materlals and w ,°* m “
bad ™ ade » rap “ tat ‘“
■" fitted w h
hundreds of taxis are being fitted with
Australian-made open bodies, and the
samc lh| ng is happening in Singapore,
* * * *
From another old Parliamentary
hand:
Forgan Smith must be a brave man if he
intends to go after the Federal Labor leadeiship.
No Queenslander has transferred from a
Premiership to the Commonwealth House with-
out str iking trouble. James Dickson died a
week after he became Australia’s first Defence
Minister. T. J. Ryan found the promise of
leadership a myth, and within a couple o
years was dead after fighting a disastrous libel
act j on w ith the Hobart “Mercury.” E. G.
was next. He had to wait for his
chance to succeed Bill Mahony (who backed
Spearfelt) in Dailey; and what a Dead Sea
apple he plucked!
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.T.W.: Well written, but plot draws the
long bow a bit too far.... A.J.H.: Humor
good, but subject matter doesn’t quite make
the grade Olden Days: Reminiscences not
of sufficiently wide interest D.C.K.: Not
up to standard and far too sentimental
J.D.McC.: The unlikely plot creaks at every
joint like a gouty centenarian... .8.H.: Article
not suitable... .Khyble: “Bought”? Not this
time V.D.: The year’s worst story
C.K.R.: The body of the plot can’t stand the
severity of the twist given to the tail
B. After reading that racing yarn the re-
ligious editor dashed out to Kenso and put
the vestry funds on the rankest outsider
C. Below standard... .C.M.W.: Try
again; but type in double-spacing next time....
L.N.: The plots are too obviously the result of
an overdose of romantic novels S.Y.R.: No
prize for that painting Dixit: Glad you can
“take it” C.T.R.: No consolation for
“Whine St.” E.W.F.: It falls short
H.P.: Not funny enough... .J.E.M.: The
ancient sport of taking down the newchum
is not amusing in print K.A.: Doesn’t
hold the interest J.S.E.: That applies to
yours, too D.C.: Try it on a competent
auditor, or on someone with a knowledge of
bank book-keeping R.G.:
We know the game is not as good
As it was in the days of old,
But there’s plenty of spots in Aussie yet
Where a trier can win some gold.
Off with you, then; the pick is obviously more
in your line than the pen... .\YJ.R.:
’Twas in a land of world-renowned wealth,
’Twas on an azure, mild September morn,
A feeble settler, old and ill in health,
Was rudely from his much-loved cottage tom.
The eviction of the ancient so affected us that
we hadn’t the heart to read the other 12
stanzas... .G.E.M.: It isn’t 0ne....C.C.: You
never won a spelling bee, we’ll hazard....
F.E.R.: Not a bad ballade, but we can’t find
the romance in it T.1.P.: There’s some
humor in them, but they would have a better
chance at half the length... .J.L.C.: Begins
brightly, but what a tame ending! T.E.W.:
Subject doesn’t appeal W.M.M.: Hobart
authors are continually meeting ghosts of the
convict days, but that’s the first one we ve
struck from your end of the island M.R.P.:
None of them quite rings the bell J.F.K.:
Stolen-emerald story strains credulity too far.
... .C.L.K.: Not up to your best... .G.T.: We
read it a second time to make sure you weren’t
joking. Honestly, the only place for it is
the library fire... .L.W.N.: “Foundry Piece
didn’t come within miles of capturing the right
atmosphere... .W.O’M.: “Clancy” is still “of
the overflow”—from our w.p.b F.McC. and
A.8.R.: Pleasant verse, but not quite good
enough... .A.V.N.: Came close. .. .Tara: Fair
average quality, but you must cure her of the
“dawn-morn” complex Emel: You are
nearly always correct in form, but the verses
lack the little extra spark that might lift them
from mediocrity... .R. 1.: A bit off the track
this time A.N.: You’re too fond of worn-
out phrases... .E.K.: Tried hard, but couldn t
find a winner among ’em G.R.McC.: Far
too long; the Adam-Eve-Lilith touch didn’t
improve it... .M.D.S.: Idea good, but Bog-
ville and Henry B. Smith don’t seem real.
Might be worth another try....H.P.: Amus-
ing, but a trifle unpleasant F.A.H.: Came
fairly close... .C.T.: Doesn’t get by.... Don
Q.: Poem explaining what the wind means
when it says “Shhs swish” of merely academic
interest... .W.S.: After reading about your
stew we felt very much the same as you did
after eating it. Please destroy recipe
0.K.5.: Very true, but unsuitable for publica-
tion W.R.F.: Not for us; you might try it
on a Sunday paper F.S.: Too longwinded.
G.S.C.: It doesn’t get anywhere. ..
D.T.F.: There’s rather a lot of improbability
in it....P.E.: Not suitable... .J.A.: Mot
enough laughs to the page A. 8.: The first
one was just weak; the second was awful
K.T.: Quite close... .E. 0.5.: Off the track.
R.L.: Written, we should imagine, after
your pet Pomeranian had been run over by
a motor-lorry... .R.G.H.: Still on the outer.
Keep at it W.McA.: Neither piece reaches
publication standard... .R.J.0.: Where does
this farmer live who didn’t want the railway
to cut across his land? ... .R.L.M.: Why go
to America for the scene of your story?
F.M.: Amusing as a personal reminiscence,
but not for general reading... .P.H.: It’s a
long way to your “Barbary Coast,” and there’s
a lot too much of it.... J.L.C.: It might do
for a whisky ad W.C.: A very unreal dia-
logue ... .L. A.: You rhyme tolerably enough,
but your ideas are involved.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.F.: Your drawing of Binghi suggests that
you have been looking at too many pictures
of Abyssinians T.F.T.: Something more
than pen, ink and paper is needed to produce
a publishable drawing... .F.N.: Don’t send
any more till you’ve had a year’s lessons
R. : Can’t tell whether object on right is a
haystack or a stray cloud... .W.S.K.: The tiles
on the bathroom wall are tolerably well drawn.
... .C.S.: Frequent attendance at an art school
is recommended... .S.G.: Missed —but only
by feet... .H.L.: That grained surface is un-
suitable for fine penwork—try a smoother
board A.P.: You might become a sign-
writer C.8.F.: Drawing an elephant is be-
yond your powers... .R.H.W.: An overworked
gag....P.P.: Drawing badly balanced; wash-
work streaky... .C.T.: Beginner’s work, with a
faint glimmer of promise... .F.C.: The fur
coat looks more like a hessian bag T.L.:
One of the oldest of hod-carrier jokes....
S. : Conversation between fairies tame.
W.T.: Copying from magazines no good
-—take lessons and draw from life S.D.E.:
Neat, crisp style, but absolutely no humor.
G.M.: Not a smile in the dozen
C.N.: Likenesses are not good enough....
8.W.: Cartoon of politicians holiday-jaunting
overseas received. All unrecognisable....
V.D.H.: Hopelessly crowded and confused.
AJ.A.: A poor lot.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Tas., used to country, wants job
on the land, anywhere.—649.
Youth, N.S.W., lost one arm, requires light
work, messages, caretaker or lift-driver. —520.
Young man (16), Q’land, interested in radio,
wants job with radio service firm. —598.
Young Irishman (24), Sydney, good appear-
ance, wants employment of any sort, anywhere.
—656.
Author wishes to get in touch with experi-
enced writer regarding revision of a radio
play.—63l.
To hear from persons who could tell where
licorice, wild or otherwise, is growing in
N. S. Wales.—sßs.
Copy of dramatised version of book Give
Me Time, by W. Apsey, which was produced
in Sydney at the Queen’s Hall in 1901, or to
hear from any original member of the cast. —
646.
Words of poem “The Cowboy,” by “Black-
boy,” published in a Sydney newspaper about
1922.—620.
To buy a silicon crystal.—6s9.
Information Sought.
(1) In what Test match of the 1932-33 series
did Larwood score over 90 ? (2) How and
by whom was he dismissed on that occasion ?
(3) Did Ironmonger hold four catches on the
same day as Larwood made his big score ? —
623.
(1) In the fifth Test at Sydney on February
23-28, 1932, Larwood scored 98 runs. (2)
Caught Ironmonger, bowled P. K. Lee. (3)
Ironmonger caught two batsmen in this match
—Wyatt off O’Reilly, and Larwood.
* * * *
(1) Runs scored for and against and the re-
sults of the Australian elevens of 1899 (first year
of five Tests in England), 1902, 1921 and 1934 ?
(2) Which do you consider the best team of
the four ? —658.
(1) 1899—Australia won 1, drawn 4; Eng-
land scored 2075 runs, averaging 29.64, and
Australia 2475 runs, averaging 27.5. 1902—
Australia won 2, England 1, drawn 2; England
scored 1646 runs, averaging 23.51, and Aus-
tralia 1395 runs, averaging 19.37. 1921—
Australia won 3, drawn 2; England scored
2243 runs, averaging 29.90, and Australia 1979
runs, averaging 30.44. 1934—-Australia won 2,
England 1, drawn 2; England scored 2494
runs, averaging 33.25, and Australia 3218 runs,
averaging 40.73. In the four tours England
scored 8458 runs for 290 wickets, averaging
29.16, and Australia 9067 runs for 306 wickets,
averaging 29.63. (2) The 1902 team (with
the great batting strength of V. Trumper,
R. A. Duff, M. A. Noble, C. Hill, W. Arm-
strong, J. Darling, A. J. Hopkins and Syd
Gregory) was undoubtedly the strongest.
* * * *
(1) What were the batting averages of Brad-
man, Ponsford and McCabe in first-class
matches on the 1934 trip to England? (2)
"Ducks” scored on that tour? (3) When did
Bradman, Ponsford and McCabe get their
"ducks” ? —650.
(1) Bradman, 22 matches, 27 innings, 3
not outs, 2020 runs, 304 highest score, 84.16
average; Ponsford, 22 matches, 27 innings,
4 not outs, 1784 runs, 281 not out highest
score, 77.56 average; McCabe, 26 matches, 37
innings, 7 not outs, 2078 runs, 240 highest
score, 69.26 average. (2) 39 “ducks” scored
on tour belonged to Grimmett, Brown, Wall,
Fleetwood-Smith and Oldfield (4 each), Ebeling,
McCabe and Chipperfield (3 each), Bradman,
Ponsford and Woodfull (2 each), and Kippax,
Darling, Bromley and Barnett (1 each).
O’Reilly was the only player who did not add
to the clutch. (3) Bradman failed in the third
match (v. Cambridge University) and seventh
(v. Hampshire); Ponsford ciphered in the
fifth (v. Essex) and eighth (v. Middlesex); and
McCabe got his in the seventh (v. Hampshire)
and two in the sixteenth (v. Surrey).
* * * *
What were the circumstances in which a
Melbourne journalist was excluded from the
House of Reps, about four or five years ago?
— 666.
The reporter was J. A. Alexander, political
correspondent at Canberra of Melbourne
“Herald.” He incurred the displeasure of the
Scullin Government in 1931 by publishing the
text of cables which had passed between Mr.
Scullin and Mr. Lyons and refusing to disclose
the source of his information. He was ex-
cluded from the House, the motion being car-
ried only on the casting vote of the Speaker.
The ban was unconditionally lifted by the
Scullin Government five months later.
* * * *
A clue I have frequently run across in cross-
word puzzles is “Highest note of Guido’s
'cole” — “si.” Who was Guido and what was
his scale ? —654.
The reference is to Guido d’Arezzo (he was
oorn at Arezzo), a Benedictine monk of the
monastery of Pomposa, near Ferrara, who in
the early part of the eleventh century laid
down the principles of what is now known
as the tonic sol-fa system of notation. As a
matter of fact, there was no “si” in his scale,
the notes in which were named “ut,” “re,”
“fa*” “sol” and “la.” “Si” was not
added till Guido had been dead 300 years.
* * * 5|C
Did the late King George tour India previous
to the Durbar visit, and, if so, which portions
of that country did he visit ? —583.
In 1905-06 King George and the Queen, then
Prince and Princess of Wales, visited India,
landing at Bombay on November 9, and pro-
ceeding to Indore, across the Great Indian
Desert to the Punjab, stopping at Lahore, and
men continuing to Peshawar and the North-
Vvest Frontier. Jamnu, Amritsar and the
ancient capitals of Delhi and Agra were also
visited. During Christmas week they were
entertained by the Maharajah of Gwalior, later
continuing to Lucknow, Calcutta, Rangoon,
Madras, Mysore and Benares. Thence to Simla
and the port of Kurrachee, which they left
on the return journey on May 19, 1906.
sfc * *
Has there ever been an explanation of why
on the eastern side of Australia there are dense
scrubs of softwoods which terminate abruptly
in a defined line, so that only 100 yards from
all these softwoods there are hardwoods ?
493.
Sudden changes in vegetation are very
common up the east coast, and are associated
with changes in rainfall, changes in effective
water supply, equivalent to changes in aspect,
which brings in the factor of the hot and cool
side of a hill. Changes in soil fertility also
affect the matter. In general, the rainfall in-
creases rapidly from the coast to the top of the
Dividing Range. But owing to the fact that
lower slopes and gullies are benefited by drain-
age from the higher areas the effective increase
in water supply in the lower areas is pro-
nounced, causing a luxurious, almost tropical
vegetation (softwoods) as contrasted with the
open forest of the areas which depend for their
water supply on rainfall and not drainage. Such
changes may take place very suddenly. Changes
in aspect are also important, the hot north
and windy west slopes being clothed with a
more open forest than the cooler east and
south slopes. Finally the pockets of rich
basaltic soils which occur right up the east
coast frequently cause marked and sudden
changes in vegetation. The rapid transition
you remark upon is generally due to abrupt
soil changes. The scrub forest requires certain
soil conditions, and in such soil it will actu-
ally oust the eucalypt. Again, the clay soils
in which red-gums flourish will not, as a rule,
grow scrub.
* * *
About a year ago £SOOO worth of gold was
stolen from the train conveying it to Adelaide
from Alice Springs, where it had been con-
signed after a 500-mile overland motor trip
from Tennant’s Creek. Who suffered the loss,
the mine, the railways, the Post Office or an
insurance Cos. ? —5Ol.
The amount ‘of gold bullion stolen was con-
siderably below the value mentioned; and the
distance conveyed from Tennant’s Creek to
Alice Springs was 326 miles, not 500, as stated.
The gold was owned by a bank, and as it was
covered by insurance the loss was no doubt
borne by the insurance co.
* * * *
What was Robert Emmet by religion ? —469.
A Protestant.
* =H * *
What were “the labors of Hercules” ? —653.
In Greek mythology Hercules was the son
of Jupiter and Alcmena, and was renowned for
his strength. Stricken with madness, he mur-
dered his own and his brother’s children, and
he was commanded to serve Eurystheus for 12
years in expiation. He had to perform 12
tasks —to kill the lion of Nemea; to destroy the
seven-headed Lernean hydra; to capture the
Arcadian stag; to kill the wild boar of Ery-
manthus; to clean the Augean stables; to kill
the carnivorous birds of Stymphalis; to capture
the wild bull of Crete; to capture the mares
of Diomedes; to obtain the girdle of the
Queen of the Amazons; to slay the monster
Geryon; to obtain the golden apples from
the garden of the Hesperides ; and to bring to
earth Cerberus, the three-headed dog of Hades.
Aided by the gods he successfully carried out
all these tasks. When he died he was carried
to Olympus and endowed with immortality.
* * * *
In what circumstances was the steamer
General Slocum lost on East River, New York,
in 1904 ? —523.
The ship was destroyed by fire on the morn-
ing of June 15, 1904. She had on board 1800
passengers, chiefly women and children, having
been chartered to convey a Sunday-school
picnic party to Long Island Sound. In less
than an hour after embarkation fire broke out.
Captain Van Shaick prepared to beach the
vessel, but was unable to do so on the Harlem
bank on account of the presence of a number
of oil tanks, and made instead for North
Brother Island, half a mile distant. Fanned
by a strong wind, the flames soon overran
the vessel; lifebelts and hoses were found to be
useless, and 1200 lives were lost.
* * * *
When was Viscount Hampden Governor of
N. S. Wales, and what was his English county ?
— 668.
His term was from November 22, 1895, to
March 5, 1899. The family seat is The Hoo,
Welwyn, Herts.
* H= * *
(1) What is the connection between Mozart’s
“Marriage of Figaro” and Rossini’s “Barber of
Seville”? (2) Did the Mozart work hold the
field till Rossini’s appeared ? (3) How much
did each composer get for his work ? —669.
(1) In both cases the libretto is based on
The Barber of Seville, by Beaumarchais, and
both operas belong to the “Italian school.”
(2) No. An opera, also based on the Beau-
marchais story by a now long-forgotten com-
poser, Pasiello, which was first performed four
years after Mozart’s opera appeared, held the
favor of Europe for the next quarter of a
century. (3) Rossini got the equivalent of £BO.
Mozart seems to have received nothing save
fees for conducting.
* * * *
What became of the royal residence of Non-
such, mentioned as being in use in Elizabethan
times, and where was it located 7 —597.
It was in Surrey, between Cheam and Ewell,
and was commenced by Henry VIII. Before it
was completed Queen Mary sold it to the Earl
of Arundel. Elizabeth bought it back, and
during her reign and those of the first three
Stuarts it was a royal residence. Pepys, in
the reign of Charles 11., describes it as “a very
noble house,” but that monarch gave it to
the notorious Duchess of Cleveland, who sold
it. It was pulled down about 1680, and noth-
ing now remains.
(1) What course of training is necessary to
become a barrister in N.S.W., and what does it
cost ? (2) Is it necessary to be articled to a law
firm or to acquire experience as a Judge’s
associate ? —563.
(1) The student must matriculate in Latin,
Greek, German or French, geometry and
mechanics (statics), algebra, inorganic chemis-
try or geology, English literature and ele-
mentary logic. After admission as a student-
at-law he must pass an intermediate examina-
tion in international law, constitutional law
and legal history, Roman law and jurispru-
dence. After a lapse of at least 12 months
he has to go up for examination in equity,
criminal law, personal property, conveyancing,
torts, pleading and evidence and other sub-
jects. Course takes about four years, and fees,
etc., amount to about £IOO. (2) No.
* * * *
(1) Where is Rabaul situated? (2) Popula-
tion — white and native ? (3) Type of build-
ings, modern or otherwise ? (4) Nature of
water supply, lighting and other conveniences ?
(5) What is the climate, and is the district sub-
ject to malaria ? (6) Amusements and sports
for whites ? (7) Are there separate schools for
white children and for natives ? (8) Do all
whites have native servants or are there poorer
whites who cannot afford this ? (9) Is suit-
able clothing procurable there ? —453.
(1) On the north coast of the Gazelle Penin-
sula, Island of New Britain. (2) Non-in-
digenous 1600, native 3000. (3) They are of a
design appropriate to the tropical climate. (4)
Rabaul is electrically lit, and the water supply
is obtained from storage tanks fed by catch-
ment from roofs of buildings. (5) The malarial
mosquito has been practically eliminated, and
cases of malaria are now few. (6) Europeans
take part in most branches of sport, the princi-
pal being cricket, tennis, golf, football, athletics
and swimming. (7) A separate school is con-
ducted for the education of European children.
(8) It is usual for a European to employ a
native servant. The average cost, including
food, etc., is between 30s. and £2 per month.
(9) Yes.
* * * *
(1) Can you give some information concern-
ing Kangaroo Island, S. Aus ? (2) Tourist
attractions ? (3) How can I get there ? —670.
Situated at the foot of St. Vincent Gulf,
which it shelters to a large extent from the
Southern Ocean. Length approx. 90 miles,
average width approx. 25 miles. Very rocky
coastline broken by occasional bays. Popu-
lation about 1000, mainly occupied in agricul-
ture. Chief towns: Kingscote and Penne-
shaw (Hog Bay). Products: Oats, wheat, bark,
gum, fish and eucalyptus oil. The island was
discovered and named by Flinders in 1802.
After that it was frequented by whalers and
sealers—a few of whom settled there. The
first shiploads of S. Aus. settlers landed there
in July, 1836, but later transferred to Adelaide.
(2) Summer climate is pleasant, with a tem-
perature several degrees below that of Adel-
aide. The island is growing in popularity as
a tourist resort. There is good hotel accom-
modation at Kingscote and Hog Bay. (3)
By steamer from Pt. Adelaide, Wednesdays
and Saturdays; by aeroplane from Adelaide,
Mondays and Saturdays. There is also a joint
road and sea service operating between Adel-
aide and Hog Bay, via Yankalilla.
* * * *
What entrance fee is charged trainee nurses
at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney ?
What wages are they paid during period of
training, and are trainees provided with keep
and uniforms ? —467.
No entrance fee is charged. For two months
after entrance the nurse is passed through a
preliminary training school. During this
period she is provided with free board and resi-
dence and laundry, but no salary. For the re-
maining 10 months of her first year she is paid
at the rate of £3O per annum, plus board and
residence, with free laundry. In the first year
she provides her own uniforms. Second year
of training, £4O p.a.; third year of training,
£SO p.a.; fourth year of training, £65 p.a.—
plus uniforms, board and residence and
laundry for all three years.
* * * *
(1) Is it permissible for a girl of 17 to make
a parachute descent from an aeroplane with-
out her parents’ authority ? (2) Are there any
other conditions to be complied with ? (3)
Where could arrangements be made for a de-
scent ? (4) Is it possible to obtain a parachute
which opens automatically ? (5) Cost of a
descent ?■ —4o3.
(1) Not known. (2) See pamphlet posted.
(3) Apply to J. Reece, c/o J. C. Carpenter,
Aerodrome, Mascot, N.S.W. (4) On normal
parachutes it is necessary to pull a rip cord
not earlier than three seconds after leaving
the aircraft. This releases a pilot parachute
which in turn opens out the main parachute.
(5) Obtain from Mr. Reece.
* * * *
(1) How is a comet distingushed from a
planet ? (2) Have any theories been formed
to account for the force that drives out the
tail ? (3) When was Halley’s comet dis-
covered ? —616.
(1) Their orbits, instead of being nearly cir-
cular, are vastly elongated ellipses. Their
masses are very small compared with those
of the major planets. They are generally sur-
rounded by hazy or nebulous envelopes called
the “coma” when their outline is nearly cir-
cular, or the “tail” when greatly extended.
(2) The present view is that cause of the ex-
pulsion is electrical in origin. (3) In 1705,
when Halley predicted that the comet of 1682
would return in 1759. It also returned in
1835 and 1910.
* * * *
How to silverplate metal surfaces without
electric current ? —595.
Mix silver chloride 7 parts, cream of tartar
14 parts, sodium chloride (table salt) 21 parts,
water sufficient to form a paste. Protect the
mixture from light to prevent the reduction
of the silver salt. For use, spread the paste
upon the surface of the metal and allow to
dry. After a few hours rinse with acidulated
water, then immerse in a solution of potas-
sium cyanide (very poisonous) and wash again.
If a heavier plating is required, repeat the
process.
* * * *
Which country has the smallest army in the
world ?■ —645.
Luxembourg has 135 gendarmes, 170 volun-
teers and 30 musicians, though in case of war
“the number of volunteers may be temporarily
raised to 250.” The war-time strength of the
army of the Republic of San Marino is 950
men and 38 officers, commanded by a marshal,
but there universal compulsory service is in
vogue. On a peace footing, 60 men is all the
republic can muster.
Brief Answers.
R.S.P.: There are at least four Brightons in
Australia. Do not know to which you refer.
R.M.R.: (1) Unable to trace an officer of
that name. (2) Information can be obtained
from the Registrar-General’s Department on
payment of a search fee....O.W.: (1) Yes.
(2) Yes. Alice Dunn. (3) No record....
J. : The attempted assassination of the
Duke of Edinburgh took place at Clontarf,
Sydney, in 1868; he did not pay a later visit.
. ...J.V.: Get in touch with Agricultural De-
partment, Sydney P.W.: Spengler’s works
must speak for themselves. Agree with you
that the culture of each age appreciates and
incorporates the culture of past ages. As to
the relativity of truth, the Spenglerian obser-
vation fails to take into account (most notably)
the mathematical laws which operate through
all time and throughout the universe and which,
however expressed, have the same import
H.W.M.: Write S. Walder, Ltd., 340 Pitt-street,
Sydney, stating height of pole you intend to
erect, and they will send a sketch showing de-
tails of wire and crossarm... .J.G.D.: Defence
Department states that the figures are not
available... .A.J.H.: Depends upon the rules
of the club. Mostly it entitles him, without
payment of subscriptions, to full benefits and
privileges of membership for life... .A.D.:
England Speaks, by Philip Gibbs (9s. 6d.)....
B.C.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Department, Melbourne R.C.: The examin-
ation fee is 5s. Further information may be
obtained from the Electrical Contractors and
Electricians Licensing Board, Agriculture Build-
ing, Farrer-place, Sydney J.V.C.: Latest
returns available show total sheep in Australia
at December 31, 1934, 114,509,000. In the
United Kingdom in 1932-33 there were
27,250,000. No later figures are available....
K. : The Works of Aristotle is obtainable
from most leading booksellers, price 3s. 9d.
. ...J.B.P.: The inter-’Varsity boat race will
be held in Brisbane in 1937 and in Hobart in
1938. But the venue may be transferred to
the next capital in the order if, by
any chance, less than three crews enter in any
year... .C.C.: (1) From Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney; 2s. 6d. (2) No... .J.F.N.: Write
J. S. Macdonald, Director, National Art
Gallery of N.S.W., The Domain, Sydney....
R.H.P.: No printed matter dealing with the
subject. Departmental literature deals with ex-
termination of rabbits by various methods. A
very heavy penalty is provided for persons
found to have live ones in their possession. If
you therefore trapped rabbits in the manner
suggested you would be compelled by the law
to destroy them immediately... .E.C.: Though
Johann Strauss the elder had a tremendous
reputation as a composer of waltzes (he wrote
152), it was his eldest son, also Johann, who
wrote those now remembered (his output was
400), including “The Blue Danube.” It was
the younger, also, who wrote the operetta “The
Bat.” Edward and Joseph, younger sons of
the original Johann, were also prolific com-
posers J.B.: Write “Sydney Mail,” 38
Hunter-street, Sydney... .A.I.: Second cousin.
Yes, if the family history as to health on both
sides was good; otherwise they should not
marry. The “boy and girl” would require
their parents’ consent to the marriage
M. : The apparatus is designed on scien-
tific lines and no harm can result from its use.
Advise you to accept trial offer... .H.M.K.:
The Shepparton “Advertiser,” Shepparton
“News” and “Goulburn Valley Stock Journal”
are all published at Shepparton (Vic.).....
N. : (1) The Australian Literature Society:
sec., Miss M. Agnew, 96 Walpole-street, Mel-
bourne. (2) Sub., 5s. p.a S.K.: Philip
O’Bryen Hoare, Box 1142P., G.P.O., Sydney.
. ...T.B.G.: Whitaker’s Almanac estimates the
total number of books published in Great
Britain during 1934 (the latest year for which
figures are available) at 15,436. Fiction easily
occupied first place with 4827, and “children’s
books and minor fiction” was second with
1490. Educational books (1031) were third,
and “poetry and the drama” (563) were well
down the list L.M.: Japan has a peace-
time army (June, 1934) of 19,400 officers and
310,000 other ranks D.B.: “The Librarian”
(monthly, Is.), Lodgewood, Gravesend, Eng-
land, “Library” (quarterly, 5s.), Picket Piece,
Wendover, Bucks, England, and “Library Re-
view” (quarterly, 8s. p.a.), 54 Main-street,
Coatbridge, Lanarkshire, England... .A.R.L.:
Mooltup is a W.A. abo. place-name meaning “a
shady place”; Tuggerah is a N.S.W. abo. place-
name meaning “cold”... .D.F.: Question too
vague. There are two hotels at that intersection.
E.B.B.: Cannot furnish such a list. Sug-
gest you form a selection committee representa-
tive of the various tastes within the organisation
and consult catalogue issued by wholesale dis-
tributors A.K.: Normandie, 80,000 tons,
962ft. long; Queen Mary, 73,000 tons, 1018ft.
long M.W.: Neither Federal nor N.S.W.
State income tax is payable on lottery winnings.
.... E.C.: Prepared to consider short stories
with an Australian interest not exceeding 3500
words. Address all contributions to the editor.
. ...H.G.L.: Understand that they have closed
down. Consult your solicitor E.P.: (1)
Prepared to consider any you may submit. (2)
From 30s. upwards, according to merit and
space allotted... .H.R.H.: A general map of
the Northern Territory may be obtained from
the Department of the Interior, Canberra, 2s.
. ...W.M.L.: Modern Trout Fly Dressing, by
Roger Woolley (9s.); from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... .J.F.A.: (1) “Bellerive” is a
real person. His name is Joe Tishler, and he
lives in Victoria. (2) Yes, he was the subject
pf a Red Page article published several years
ago....N.S.: There are 66 business colleges
in the Commonwealth, employing 419 teachers
and with approximately 18,466 students, 10,605
of them girls. N.S.W. has 23 schools for
6900 pupils B.C.S.: Rogilla won the Caul-
field Cup in 1932 carrying 7st. 121b. The same
year he was second to Peter Pan (7st. 111b.)
with 9st. lib. in the Melbourne Stakes, and
with 7st. 131b. to Denis Boy (8st. 61b.) in the
Metropolitan... .B.I.: Adeline Genee. She
was born in Denmark in 1878. Since she re-
tired in 1914 her one appearance was to open
the Coliseum ballet season in 1933. She has
been president of the Association of Operatic
Dancing of Great Britain since 1928 J.T.P.:
The battle of Modder River was fought by
a British column under Lord Methuen and
about 9000 Boers under Cronje on Nov.
28, 1899 A.M.: London “Daily Telegraph”
first appeared in 1855 as the “Daily Tele-
graph and Courier.” It has a circulation of
about 300,000 E.L.J.: The Nobel Prizes
are financed out of the fortune left by a
Swedish chemist, Alfred Bernhard Nobel, who
died in 1896... .T.R.N.: The Mississippi is
2553 miles long, the Missouri 2551 (Many
others mailed.)


Discard
ere
c la i m s/
>/
4/
m
&
s
- *^s^S:
r
c-- \?#n -
x w *
as?
N
N,
%
x:
s*
s,
<>
%■,
&>
m
m
did 32*45 Miles per Callon
POWERCHIEF
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“In a Permanent Collection”
A number of the faculty of this uni-
versity are interested in a study of the
news presentation and the expressions of
editorial opinion in connection with the
death of George V. and the accession of
Edward yill.
For the purpose of this inquiry, we
should like to secure the issues of your
paper dealing with the death and funeral
of George V. and the accession of
Edward VIII. It is our intention to
place these papers in a permanent col-
lection. A leading paper has been
selected for each of a number of Ameri-
can and Empire communities. — John E.
Goodwin, Librarian, University of Cali-
fornia (Los Angeles).
[Copies of the Jan. 22 and Jan. 29 issues
of The Bulletin have been forwarded to Mr.
Goodwin.]
The New Pacific State
When in hospital I read an unkind
reference in The Bulletin to the new
Philippine Commonwealth. Your para-
graphist treats the remarkable fight for
native independence as unworthy of
notice and this serious political change
in the Western Pacific as of no moment.
I think the establishment of the Phillip-
pine Commonwealth with a one-Chamber
Parliament and an American Governor-
General has a great significance for Aus-
tralia. We should be friends with the
Filipinos, and it should be to the interest
of Britain and U.S.A. to help
J. A. M. (Vic.).
’Plane or Hospital Improvements?
Wilcannia (N.S.W.) hospital may need
an ambulance ’plane service (B. 5/2/’36),
but it needs other things more. I write
as one who has been a patient.
A “mere £1100” would suffice for the
’plane, and the hospital board is pre-
pared to find £4OO. What wonders the
expenditure of £4OO would work at the
hospital! It could be spent in provid-
ing a hot'-water service, in improving
sanitary arrangements, in fitting wire
doors and in attending to general repairs.
When the night nurse comes off duty
there is not a suitable room for her to
sleep in. After 9 a.m. the room is like
a furnace. Wilcannia and district would
be well advised to make a perfect
hospital before attempting the launching
of an expensive aeroplane service. Where
the hospital serves hundreds the ’plane
would serve few. — Riverite (N.S.W.).
The Australian Army
The Government admits that the vol-
untary system falls far short of being
effective. A grave doubt exists in the
minds of those who were responsible
for carrying if into effect whether uni-
versal training is suitable. Is there no
alternative? Yes ; a regular force, in the
full sense of the term, supplemented by
the militia as a ‘ second line. —W. J. 8.,
Lieqt., ret. (Tas.). , . _
The experience of one of.my opposite
numbers who commands a militia F.A.
battery. He has about 75 men on his
books, and he tried to get them to-
gether for annual camp. The men were
keen enough; but after personal con-
tact with their employers he secured leave
for 45 only. One boss rang up to see if
his man couldn’t be excused. A fruit-
market stall-holder offered to let his
hand go, but wouldn’t guarantee to take
him on again. A Commonwealth Bank
employee was not allowed to take his
annual holidays during the period of the
camp; and leave was refused to a man
on the Melbourne staff of the Common-
wealth railways. With such “encourage-
ment” the wonder is, not that Parkhill’s
Own are rapidly dwindling, but that they
have any officers left. — Also R.A.N.
(Vic.).
“An Uneven Commonwealth”
Here is my “stray thought” (B.
26/2/’36). Let us make the level of un-
employment in Australia our barometer.
When that level rises above a set figure
—which figure should be a low one —the
Loan Council should create credits (not
borrow them) to put useful public works
in hand at full wages for full time. Not
necessarily monetarily profitable works,
but “useful” ones, using that word in its
larger sense. The credits having been
“created,” no debts would attach to the
works they brought into being, so the
matter of profitableness would not arise.
The resulting flood of immigration
would' very soon give us the population
we need for defence and development.
Neither would there be any need for
freak schemes of land settlement.
Australia can remain unpopulated and
undefended if the price to be paid is its
rescue from the moneylender. Finance
would rather see our people brown-
faced and Asiatic than white and British
if only it continues to collect a yearly and
increasing toll of so much per cent, on its
loans.—F. D. (N.S.W.).
Canberra’s Slaves
Archdeacon Robertson, the forceful
chief pastor of St. John’s Church, Can-
berra, hit the nail on the head when he
said Canberra people were the victims of
official tyranny.
Successive Governments have taken
little or no interest in Canberra affairs.
Every little detail of everyday life is pried
into by an interfering and officious de-
partmentalism. The Minister for the In-
terior, who has charge of Canberra, is
rarely seen here in recess, and has no
real knowledge of local problems.
The consequence is that the city which
has the most stringent building regula-
tions in Australia is defaced by appalling
slum hovels owned by the Administration,
which places itself above its own build-
ing, health and sanitation ordinances.
Business people and private citizens are
vexed and harassed by a maze of ordin-
ances and local regulations. Canberra
has become a place in which one cannot
buy a pint of milk without departmental
interference. Anything can be done here
in the sacred name of officialdom. —
Solongo (F.C.T.).
For Closer Settlement
It is evident from an analysis of
records of rural production in N. S.
Wales that the existing system of land
settlement and management has not been
a sound economic proposition. Too
much reliance has been placed on wool-
production. True, valde of wool pro-
duced has for years exceeded value of all
other rural production; but it must not
be forgotten that the pastoral industry
acquired the best of the land in the early
days of settlement.
Analysing agricultural returns (dairy
produce and subsidiary products not in-
cluded) for two decennial periods (1904-
14, 1923-32), we find that area cultivated
(Gounty of Cumberland and Western
Division excluded) has averaged 4} mil-
lion acres; annual value of production
per acre, £3 ; average number of persons
engaged in agricultural pursuits, 1 to
every 88| acres.
As for the pastoral industry, which has
occupied an area corresponding with the
territory from which the agricul-
tural records were taken, i.e., 85f million
acres, average annual production per
acre has been 6s. 3d.; average number
of persons engaged, one to every 2060
acres. Put in another way, 4\ million
acres of cultivated land has given an
annual return of million pounds;
85| million acres of pastoral land, 26|
million pounds. Roughly, 19 million
acres occupied for grazing is good arable
land.
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn
from the evidence is that the pastoral
industry is being partly sustained at the
expense of the agricultural industry. In
effect, the State is losing a prospective
annual return of over 47 million pounds
and a correlative opportunity of plac-
ing 150,000 settlers and workers in profit-
able employment.I—Yass 1 — Yass (N.S.W.).
Rolling Down to Sea-oh
Seasiders in Melbourne have to watch
their step in costuming when they ven-
ture on a strange beach. There is no
Spooner standardisation around Mel-
bourne, and, while a majority of the
municipalities raises no objection to
bathers rolling down their costume when
sunbaking or even to their bathing in
trunks after the fashion of British royalty
and, in fact, everybody in Europe, others
regard the practice as justification for
instant arrest and prosecution.
If Sydney—or even Melbourne—
bathers were to appear garbed as the
smart people of Europe and Britain do
there would be an immediate howl to the
heavens.
The true test of beach costuming is
set out in Robespierre’s definition of
liberty: “One man’s liberty ends where
another’s begins.” People who object to
rolled costumes must have their feelings
considered ; no bather has a right to roll
his costume within sight of the general
non-bathing public, for there are many
individuals who don’t like it. On the
other hand, the person who doesn’t like
it has no right to seek to be shocked by
visiting beaches where such is the practice.
—Comic Strip (Vic.).


FOR CAULFIELD.
Kooyong Welter: Bite Again;
next, Desert Chief.
St. Kilda Handicap: Nellie’s Tip ;
next, Windmar.
South Yarra Handicap: Valiant
Chief ; next, Belle Silhouette.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Park Stakes (third division): Ham-
merhead ; next, Frieze.
Flying Handicap: Cid; next,
Bombus.
Canterbury Cup: Regal Star;
next, El Senorita.
Campsie Handicap: Fireman ;
next, Broccoli.
FOR RANDWICK.
Denman Stakes: Heritor or
Hadrian ; next, Moonray.
Randwick Stakes: Lough Neagh ;
next, Hadrian or Gay Blonde.
City Tatt.’s Cup: Regal Star ; next,
Viceroy.
Club Welter: Mananui; next,
Bombus.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip *
Amalia (9 to 2) won the Australian
Cup in the slowest time since the victory
of Prince Cox in 1923. It took her 3min.
56sec. to cover the 2\ miles. Of course,
she could have done it at a far faster
rate of speed, but conditions did not suit.
At its outset the race resembled a
Champion Stakes contest before that
three-miler was wiped off the programme
at Flemington. No Cup jockey, least of
all Pratt on Cuddle, wanted to lead in
the first half of the journey. Pratt man-
aged to pull down the speed of his mount
for a furlong or two, and this forced
Royal Armour to take the lead. Then
the M.L. mare assumed control of her
own accord and cleared right away from
the Spearhead gelding, who was followed
by a lot of loitering rivals.
Passing the judge’s box for the first
time there was a sensational develop-
ment. Pratt took such a strong hold of
Cuddle that the M.L. champion travelled
at little better than a canter, and Royal
Armour swooped past her once more.
After the race Pratt stated that Cuddle
collapsed opposite the stand. This does
not coincide with the impression created
in the mind of The Bulletin scribe, who
surmised that the jockey was carrying
out a preconceived plan of riding a wait-
ing race to some extent. Undoubtedly
both the trainer (George Price) and Pratt
were worried by the mare having bolted
in a track gallop on the previous Tues-
day. Cuddle knocked up in the Cup,
and finished last. She seemed very dis-
tressed, and may be of no further service
as a galloper this season. All the same
it would have been better had the mare
been allowed to run her own race on
Saturday. She resents restraint.
Amalia thoroughly deserved to win
the Cup. She is as game as a pebble, and
belongs to the st'ay-for-ever type of thor-
oughbred. After entering the straight
Allunga looked to have the race in hand,
but he found the journey a trifle too long
and faded out of a place, Amalia scor-
ing from Highardo and Hot Shot. All
through the course betting there was
little to choose between Amalia and the
Leger hero in favoritism, but the mare
from Adelaide was definitely—though
only fractionally—the first choice of
punters when the barrier lifted.
Bunsby Gaze would have been close
but for breaking down near the home
turn. Hot Shot gave one of his best dis-
plays, and is a worthy son of Pantheon,
but the much-fancied Greenhorn, who
had vanquished Amalia in the Bruns-
wick Stakes a week before, was in one
of his unwilling moods. Heroic Prince
did not start.
Neville Percival, who weighed out for
Highardo, has the unenviable distinction
of having finished second in the Austra-
lian Cup on four occasions—twice on
Kidaides in successive years, then on
White Nose a season later (1931) and
now on Highardo. The Sydney Cup has
been almost as unlucky a race for Per-
cival, as in the two-miler at Randwick
he registered two seconds (on Tangible
and Aleman respectively) and a third on
Kidaides.
Sylvandale dimmed the splendor of his
autumn achievements in Victoria by
being beaten out of a place in the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes. He has become an equine
idol of the Melbourne public, and evens
were accepted about his chance on Satur-
day, despite the knowledge that a mile is
not far enough for the son of Silvius,
who has developed stamina at the ex-
pense of speed. In the spring Sylvandale
was beaten into third place in the V.R.C.
Linlithgow Stakes, of one mile. Valiant
Chief won on that occasion, and, having
finished such a splendid second in the
Newmarket Handicap, he ought to have
been at shorter odds than 4 to 1 on
Saturday.
Through Voitre being required for
Garrio, the mount on Valiant Chief was
given to Elliot. He received orders to
ride a waiting race, and did so in the
most admirable fashion. Garrio drew
out for a substantial lead. His measure
had just been secured by the Sydney colt
Grand Mogul when Valiant Chief put
in a lightning rush and scored by the best
part of a length.
Both Valiant Chief and Garrio are
likely to go to Sydney. They will have
to be seriously reckoned with in the Don-
caster. Garrio had not sported silk since
he won the Williamstown Cup, and is
susceptible of much improvement in
condition.
Sydney horses were very conspicuous
on the concluding day of the V.R.C.
autumn meeting. Fashion Star extended
Blackford to such an extent in the
Autumn Hurdle that the Stand By geld-
ing was compelled to establish a world’s
record for 2{- miles over the battens by
covering the distance in 4min. 34sec.
Fidelity simply played with the opposi-
tion in the Sires’ Produce Stakes. She
ranks second to Gold Rod as a juvenile
galloper. Grand Mogul surprised by
splitting Valiant Chief and Garrio in the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes. Two Randwick
representatives—Heritor and Cabalist —
fought out the Bourke Handicap finish.
Cabalist started a hot favorite, but Heri-
tor (7 to 1) led all the way, and beat him
pointless.
* * * *
Amalia and Valiant Chief, like Spear
Prince (Tattersall’s Club Cup), Heritor
(Challenge Stakes) and Regular Bachelor
(Newmarket), were Bulletin selections:
two shots ; two bull’s-eyes. Incidentally,
this Page has again secured the services
of a prophet who, in other years,
plumped for Karuma and Jacko (Don-
caster), Piastoon and Gwillian G. (Syd-
ney Cup), Vaals and Chatham (Epsom),
Tregilla, Peter Pan and Hall Mark
(AJ.C. Derby), and other winners of
notable races —some of them, like Pias-
toon and Jacko, were at very long prices
—and he was the first turf commentator
to predict the greatness of Phar Lap.
Not being a punter, the soothsayer
gave up racing for another pastime,
but after some years he has taken
it up again. One of the first horses he
spotted on his return to the turf was
Heritor. He was told that the Heroic
gelding was squibby, but, though the
chestnut was beaten out of a place in
a handicap at Randwick, he formed an-
other impression. Hence The Bulletin
has tipped Heritor for all his engage-
ments (though not first for the New-
market), commencing with the Berala
Handicap at Warwick Farm, which he
won, and following with the Challenge
Stakes (for that he was 15 to 1), but ex-
cepting the Bourke Handicap. For that
the weights were not out when last week’s
Bulletin went to press, and the Heroic
nag could not be reckoned as even a
likely starter. Heritor won so' well at
seven furlongs that he must be regarded
as a horse that is still improving—he is a
four-year-old, of course, and gaining in
stamina. He has quite disposed of the
story that he is “not game.”
* * * *
Heaps of punters’ money went west
when Desert Chief failed in the Elms
Handicap on the second day of the
round. A three-year-old, Desert Chief (he
was favorite at 7 to 2) finished eighth in
a field of 12. Cardinal might have suc-
ceeded if his rider had not been so set
on making every post a winner. The
colt had 9st. 81b. and the mile was run
in lmin. 37sec.; naturally he weakened
over the last bit, and was beaten into
third place by Bustard and Grand
Mogul. Two to one in the St. Leger,
Bustard went out at 15 to 1 in this race.
There was some utterly unwarranted
hooting when he came in.
Kirrewur also befriended the book-
makers by winning the River Handicap
at 15 to 1. In between Great Legend (3
to 1) gave followers of favorites a turn
in the Leonard Stakes. Belle Silhouette
(11 to 2) looked a certainty a furlong
from home, but she shifted out when
Badger applied pressure and was beaten
by a neck, Cabalist being third. Skid-
more rode Great Legend, and he also got
Sylvandale (4 to 1 on) home in a very
slow King’s Plate —the 14 furlongs took
3min. Bsec. Allunga was second, half a
length away. Though a stronger pace
would have suited the three-year-old
much better, he thoroughly tested Sylvan-
dale, and at one moment seemed to have
his measure.
* * * *
Hall Mark won the last Doncaster with
9st. 81b., and has 9st. 111 b. this time.
High was second with 7st. 61b., and is
up 131 b. Why? Regular Bachelor gets
9st. 41b., and a hot lot of three-year-
olds are headed by Valiant Chief (Bst.
121 b.), Garrio (Bst. 101 b.), Young Idea,
Hadrian and Cardinal (each Bst. 61b.),
Grand Mogul (Bst. 51b.), Carnarvon and
Gay Lover (Bst.), Wykeham and Prittle
Prattle (7st. 91b.), Fanfare (7st. 71b. s >,
Egmont (7st. 31b.), Fireman (7st.) and
Flamari (6st. 121 b.). There are others
as well, and perhaps the winner will
come from the three-year-olds, but none
of them has been thrown in. Heritor
and Golden Chance have 7st. 51b. —an
interesting pair.
For the Sydney Cup Peter Pan gets
lOst. 21b., Sylvandale 9st. 101 b. Here,
again, few will agree with the handi-
capper. Amalia has Bst. 111 b. (and this
may tempt her party to send her across),
Sarcherie Bst. 81b. Of the three-year-olds,
Feldspar and Allunga have Bst. 61b.,
Garrio a pound less, Palfresco Bst. 31b.
and Nalda 7st. 71b. Queensland is
strongly represented with Soft Step (Bst.
71b.), Spear Prince (7st. 131 b. ; High Cross
has the same), Faith Australia and Dul-
cedo (7st. 121 b.), Pandion (7st. 101 b.)
and Glen’s Spear (7st. 51b.).
Early fancies: Hadrian and Spear
Prince.
He He * *
So much rain fell in Sydney on Satur-
day—one suburb had got nearly six
inches —that the Canterbury Park people
had to postpone their meeting. It will
be held to-morrow (Thursday).
* * * *
Over £l5OO has been spent on improve-
ments to the Hawkesbury course and sur-
roundings. They were greatly needed ;
all the same this non-proprietary club
deserves well of owners and trainers.
March 25 is the date of the annual
meeting.
* * * *
While Sydney-owned two-year-olds
dominated the races for youngsters in
Victoria, Gold Rod and Fidelity may
not have matters all their own way at
Randwick. Bonnie Legion, who defeated
Gold Rod in the December Stakes, is
training on the right way, and Billy Boy
and Rob Roy are a likely pair. And
there is The Athenian, who cost 1700
guineas as a yearling. He is a fine up-
standing chestnut whose preparation has
not been hurried. He can gallop, but so
far has been placed only once —a third
at Menangle Park. But he was a good
fourth in his last race at Rosehill, and
some people think highly of him.
* * * *
Though Heroic and Windbag have
been first and second on the sires’ list for
two seasons, the preference for the pro-
geny of imported sires still lingers. At
the yearling sales in Melbourne, nine
Windbags averaged only 263 guineas ; 19
Manfreds but 130 guineas. By contrast,
five Gay Lotharios and a Great Star in
the same draft averaged 458 guineas.
The highest price given for a Windbag
was 575 guineas for a colt out of Gay
Element, a Comedy King mare. Buyers
went to 700 guineas for a colt by East-
ern Monarch —Versatile, and for an-
other by Dignity—Candid, and to 900
guineas for a colt by Marconigram—
Virginal. Fillies by Manfred—Lemina
and Manfred —Wynette were knocked
down for 110 guineas apiece, and a colt
by Manfred —La Bassee for 100 guineas.
Holt bought this colt, and the Melbourne
trainer gave 160 guineas for a colt by
his old favorite, High Syce, out of Mer-
cenary Mary. Trihey, of Regular
Bachelor celebrity, got another High
Syce colt (the dam is Wasaba), for 200
guineas.
* * * *
“Jack Point”: Not 12 months ago
Regular Bachelor received 131 b., a year
in age and a sound beating from Pamelus
in the Doomben (Q.) Newmarket
“straight six.” Perhaps the V.R.C. New-
market winner has improved, but the
same is almost certainly true of Pamelus,
who has been enjoying an enforced ab-
sence from racing for seven months. The
disqualification will be lifted in time to
enable Pamelus to be nominated for the
big spring events. Queenslanders who
have seen him in action will back him,
no matter what race is chosen for him
or the weight the handicapper asks him
to carry.
* * * *
Perhaps with the S.A.J.C. King’s Cup
race in view, Peter Pan is kept pottering
about the Randwick and Victoria Park
tracks. After his first real gallop this
year—“four” in 51isec., following steady
work —he pulled up lame. He seemed
all right again as he left the course, but
it is highly improbable that he will race
at the AJ.C. Easter meetings, if he ever
races again.
* * * *
No horse is shaping better on the
Randwick tracks than Hadrian, who did
“four” in 51 seconds on Thursday, and
could have gone much faster. In the
Hobartville Stakes at Warwick Farm and
in the Rosehill Guineas, Hadrian proved
himself much the speediest of the Syd-
ney three-year-olds up to nine furlongs ;
but, taken to Melbourne for the Caul-
field Guineas, he was a dreadful dis-
appointment. Very probably, as with
Heritor, Allunga and Viceroy subse-
quently, the left-to-right' mode of gallop-
ing and the strange track were respon-
sible for his bad showing. He is ex-
pected to improve greatly this autumn,
and he is the cut of a Doncaster horse.
H* H*
Spear Prince returned to prominence
by winning a six-furlong race in Bris-
bane. That must have decided the AJ.C.
handicapper to add a few more pounds
to his Sydney Cup weight, but perhaps
his party did not care how much he got.
What a certainty Spear Prince would
have been for the Sydney Cup had he
been specially kept for that race, instead
of being sent to Sydney for the Summer
Cup, in which, strange to the track and
(as was subsequently made plain) a bit
above himself, he ran third, and the
Tatt.’s Cup, in which he made an exhibi-
tion of the same horses. If those perfor-
mances had never been on record, he
would have got into the Sydney Cup field
with 6st. 131 b., his Summer Cup weight,
or even less, and the rest would merely
have been a matter of his being sent to
the post fit and escaping accident. Spear
Prince is a true stayer who likes to make
his own running. The combination is
ideal for Sydney Cup requirements, as
Piastoon showed.
He sfc ❖ H*
“G.S.”: The best of trainers, the very
shrewdest of racing men, make mis-
takes ; and that is one reason why
punters who think the game is all rotten
should be more lenient in their judg-
ments. Another reason is that horses are
as nervy, and apt to be affected by the
surroundings and by sudden ailments, as
are human beings. One now-obvious
mistake was made when Young Idea was
trained for the St. Leger instead of for
the Newmarket and the C. M. Lloyd
Stakes. In that race it was woefully
demonstrated that the St. Leger prepara-
tion and race had dulled Young Idea’s
speed. Another blunder was the starting
of Cuddle in the Australian Cup after
she had pulled up distressed in the w.f.a.
race on the first day of the meeting, and
had exhibited the same ominous sign,
together with symptoms of kidney
trouble, on the track during the week.
Many track watchers were strongly of
the opinion that she should have been
scratched ; and they were proved right.
It doesn’t often happen.
Tasmania took on a South Australian
team which included Bradman, Badcock,
Ward and Waite, and was walloped by
an innings and 349. Ward, the ex-St.
George (N.S.W.) slow bowler whom
Bradman took to Adelaide, brought his
tally of wickets to 50 for the season
before the slaughter ceased.
(Continued on next page.)


r -
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal .
March Issue Now on Sale.
POSITION OF BONDHOLDERS
in
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS.
FINANCING RECOVERY.
TREND OF INTEREST RATES.
MARKET CONDITIONS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
per annum y° u rna y have the journal posted direct each month.
1 üblisncd by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors — James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esa •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ 4 ' ’
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
tfirougb. the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Banit offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’iness
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Ambrose Palmer (12st. 61b.) was Ist.
11b. and a sweet left hand too good for
Fred Henneberry in their Sydney Stadium
scrap for the Australian light-heavy-
weight title. The left counted for more
than the weight. In the open fighting it
flashed out to collect points off Henne-
berry’s dial like taking pints off the bar
counter at five to six. Palmer had so
much advantage at that range that each
time after connecting his left had time
to perform a down, out, up and across
to the right glove movement that would
have looked pretty in a school of eurhyth-
mies. When Henneberry got past the
left and went in, it was to find Palmer
inside his gloves snapping in solid stuff
with both hands. Palmer has fought
harder often, but he has rarely boxed so
brilliantly. His exhibition was so classy
that the crowd of nearly 14,000 was only
mildly indignant when Henneberry, with
a badly split left eyebrow, sensibly
turned it in after six rounds.
There was just on £4OOO in the house
(a bit more was turned away), so the
Stadium management profited by its
enterprise. But it could have gained a
great deal more by judiciously matching
each man in his proper division. As it is,
the glamor has departed from Henne-
berry, and no one will now take any
interest in a world championship match
for him. This Stadium has a sinfully
poor match-making record. One remem-
bers Uren v. Johnson, Williams v. Collins
and Williams v. Edwards. Collins was a
welterweight boxing a cruiserweight;
Johnson and Edwards were novices pitted
against old hands. In each case the loser
was never any good again.
* * * *
Perhaps Palmer should have stayed in
England after all. The cables tell us that
Petersen, whom he was to have met,
and whose record demonstrates that he
is not' much good, is to get £4600, win,
lose or draw, for boxing Jock McEvoy
at the end of next month. McEvoy,
who has had a successful trip to the
U.S.A., is to meet one John Henry Lewis
(colored) there next Saturday. The
chances are that John Henry will give
him a great deal more trouble than
Petersen will.
* * * *
A report' from Chicago had it that
Barney Ross, the welterweight champion,
was to defend his title against Carroll
at Sydney in May. Lucas, the promoter,
says he offered Ross £BOOO and expenses
for an engagement with Carroll, but his
idea was that the match should take
place next summer. Lucas has an
arrangement with the Sydney Sports
Ground people, and May would be a
very bad season for an open-air fight.
Ins and Outs
South Africa again flopped dismally
before Grimmett and O’Reilly in the
final Test match at Durban, going down
by an innings and six runs. Australia
raised its first-innings score to 455
(Fingleton 118). South Africa had last
use of a wearing wicket and, of course,
Dad Grimmett did his worst in the cir-
cumstances. Mitchell was 72 n. 0., Seidle
46 and Nourse 41 when O’Reilly helped
the South Australian to out the home
side for 227. Grimmett took 6-73 (13-173
for the match) and O’Reilly 4-47.
This century was Fingleton’s third in
successive Tests of the tour, and by all
accounts he has developed from the
rather poky batsman of last season to a
fast mover and a real stroke-maker. He
is the only man to bring off the treble
against the Afrikanders on their home
grounds, though Bradman made four cen-
turies in successive Tests against the
’Boks in Australia in 1931-32. Grimmett
brought his total of Test wickets for the
tour to 44, the best against the ’Boks
since Englishman Barnes amassed 49 in
1913-14.
It can truly be said that Grimmett and
O’Reilly, with some help from McCor-
mick, won the series. With the excep-
tion of Fingleton and Brown our batting
in the later stages of the tour faded out,
players like McCabe and Chipperfield
proving unreliable.
The result of the Tests was a sad
blow to the Afrikanders, who, after their
fine showing against England, had high
hopes of giving the redoubtable visitors
a stiff struggle. The absence of poor
Cameron from the side made a big dif-
ference.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: In order, apparently, to
allow him to complete his thousand runs
for the season Bradman was included
with Badcock, Ward and Waite in the
South Australian eleven to meet Tas-
mania. Of course, the object was
achieved, the champion making 369 in a
total of 688 and topping the four figures.
His score beats Hill’s highest of 365 n.o.
in 1900-01, made against such bowlers
as Howell, Noble and Hopkins. It is
Bradman’s second score of over 300 this
season and his sixth over that figure.
“Aigburth”: Bradman’s huge score
against the weak Tasmanian team raises
“ Te new doctor , eh? Py korry, I don Want HIM for any operation."
the question whether such matches should
be rated as first-class and their records
admitted in competition with those made
in Test matches. There seems no help
for it while English counties like
Worcestershire, Somerset and Hants are
rated as first-class sides. We have to
follow the tradition I suppose, though it
seems anomalous that two centuries
against some county like Northampton-
shire should rank with similar Test-match
achievements by Bardsley, Sutciiffe or
Bradman.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Badcock has more than
fulfilled in S.A. the promise of his cricket
in Tasmania. He topped the century for
his new State in his first season there,
and followed this with another three-
figure score this season. Now he joins
a select band of batsmen by scoring 325
against the unfortunate Victorians at
Adelaide. Murdoch started it long ago ;
others are Charles Gregory, Trumper,
Hill, Armstrong, Hendry, Ponsford,
Macartney, Bradman and Kippax.
“Aigburth”: At the request of “those
Australians,” the Marylebone club will
consider the alteration of Law 41, pro-
viding that if a fieldsman stop a ball
otherwise than with his person the ball
shall be dead and five runs added to the
score. There have been cases where
unscrupulous players— not English, I
need hardly say—have done this on pur-
pose when more than five runs have been
ticked off and so kept the batsman’s
score down. The amendment provides
that the five added runs shall be in
addition to any already run, thus foil-
ing the misguided ingenuity of the too-
clever one. In future if anyone batting,
say, on the Nullarbor Plain hits a ball
and runs 100 for the stroke he will not'
only retain the runs when the ball’s
career is stopped by a skilfully-thrown
boomerang, but will be credited with
five more.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Centurion”: The annual N.S.W. golf
competition for the A.I.F. came off at
Manly, where Diggers thronged the
course from dawn to dewy eve. The
result was a tie between Hogg, of the
P. 8.1., Coward, of Ally Sloper’s Cavalry,
and Shirt, of the Linseed Lancers. All
were three up, and the final result will
have to be determined on some later
occasion. The total muster was 524 —a
State record.
“Mid Iron”: Joe Cohen, who toured
with the Australian professional golfers,
says the reason the American profes-
sionals are so good is that they play
so much competitive golf. After four
tournaments a month for five months on
the Western circuit the players spell for a
month, and with summer fairly started
enter on another five months of weekly
tournaments in the East. Many of the
big golf-supply firms pay big money to
players, Laffoon, for instance, drawing
4000 dollars a year from Spaldings.
* * * *
N.S.W. golf officially begins on April
4 with the Killara tournaments and
N.S.W. B-grade matches. June 27 sees
the first of the big stuff, the State four-
somes championship. From July 4-11
the amateur title will be played for at
Kensington, and on September 19 the
open championship of Australia begins
and runs to October 2. Then comes the
State close championship on October
9 and 10.
“Baffy”: The news that the N.S.W.G.C.
had decided to hold a junior champion-
ship brought a remarkable response.
A. T. Barton, secretary of The Lakes,
who is to run the show, has been snowed
under by inquiries and applications from
all over the State. Competitors must be
under 20 years of age, and the conditions
will be 36 holes stroke. All applicants
must be junior members of recognised
golf clubs.
The Watermen
“Shell”: The time recorded by Cecil
Pearce when winning the Olympic test
race in Sydney, 7min. 52sec., reads rather
horribly compared with cousin Bobby’s
7min. 1* 4-ssec. at Amsterdam in 1928.
but rowing times are so affected by
wind and water conditions that no fixed
standard can be set up for them. In
Amsterdam Pearce rowed the 2000
metres on a narrow canal as smooth a|
a mirror and without current. His
cousin had to battle with tide and rough-
ish water on the always-tricky Parra-
matta.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The Pearce-Turner
trial in a double-sculler in Sydney has
been acclaimed as a wonderful success,
the two men “combining perfectly.” This
I venture to doubt. Neither man had
ever been in a double-sculler before, and
this form of rowing is as full of tricks
as a monkey which has undergone the
Voronoff treatment, steering alone taking
some picking up. Still, the men are skil-
ful oarsmen, and if they can train on
may make a success of their new job. At
Berlin —if they go—they will meet men
who have specialised in double sculls
from boyhood and have nothing to learn
about them.
“Marlow”: There is a fear in Aus-
tralia that if the N.S.W. police crew
were to enter for Henley Grand Chal-
lenge it would be refused because of the
alleged “manual and menial labor” rule.
This rule was abolished by the E.R.A.
after the war, and only Henley professes
to apply it now, though I cannot recall
an instance of its being done. Henley
was once the private preserve of Oxford
and Cambridge. Those days have van-
ished. All sorts of Continental crews
come along to row there nowadays and
as often as not to lick the cream of the
local talent.
* * *
“Shrewsbury”: Stung by the long run
of Cambridge wins in the boatrace —12
in a row —Oxford is calling on its crew
to make the supreme sacrifice and give
up its traditional training beer. One
would have thought that adoption of the
Cambridge style would have been a
better bet, but the idea of taking up any-
thing initiated by Cambridge—with the
sole exception of “Oxford bags”—has
always been distasteful to the Dark Blues.
Two Australians, Lewes and Wood, are
in the Oxford boat, and Cree, of Gee-
long, has been given his blue for Cam-
bridge.
Racquet and Bawl
“Stade Roland”: The French tennis
ranking list does not suggest an irruption
of new world-beaters. Boussus, who was
here as a promising colt with the French
team some years ago, heads the list, and
is followed by Bernard. Madame
Mathieu still heads the women. No one
seems to have spotted a prospective
Lenglen.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Perry had his first
spot of tennis since leaving Australia in
a practice game with his old mate
Hughes. He used the forehand as much
as possible, and turned for his backhand
strokes in a style which suggests that
the injured back muscles are still dicky,
though he says they give no trouble.
Often he resorted to McGrath’s double-
fisted backhand to save strain. It will
be a minor calamity for England if the
champion fails to return to form. With-
out him England has no chance of hold-
ing the Davis Cup, and all the years of


■v-eMAxAiM.
DEPOSITS...
Interest bearing deposits for amounts of £5 and
upwards, lodged for periods of three, six, twelve
or twenty-four months are accepted by all branches
of the Bank of New South Wales in Australia.
Interest can be withdrawn half-yearly on twelve
and twenty-four month deposits. If the depositor
has a cheque account at any branch of the Bank,
the interest on the deposit will be regularly credited
to this account if so desired.
Interest rates are as follows:
3% per annum for 24 months
2f% „ „ „ 12 months
6 months
2% „ „ „ 3 months
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
EST.
1817
Over 750 branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, the
Pacific Islands and London.
9E6I V
BY APPOINTMENT TO H.R.H
THE PRINCE OF WALES
- ■"tTnViTPin
LONDON
ctZpt AND
TcoiJJaHV LIUITW
gH*' T " "•** 755;
mSr*!
ie^sassSay^
sSSSiast ;«C
fin®
Fiw
S= T?
1
i 1
Eng
lam q
TANQUE
ray
Gordon
«rC»L
The aristocrat of gins • • • delicately flavoured, translucently
clear ... distilled in London by the most famous gin
distillers in the world, Tanqueray, Gordon & Co. Ltd.
HEART of
111
wangling to establish him in an amateur
status of his own will be wasted.
* $ * *
“Cut Shot”: When India last year in-
vited a Westralian tennis team to the
coral strand it was much disappointed by
the play of the visitors. The Indians
have suggested an Australian tour, and
Westralia has passed the buck to the
Australian L.T.A. It is being asked for
further particulars.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: The prospect of a trip to
Berlin has put Australian athletes fairly
on their toes, and the meetings this year
have produced a crop of new records,
State and national. A. J. Watson equalled
lis own and the Australian record for
the 440 hurdles (3ft.) at the Victorian
championships, ticking off the event in
53 9-10 sec., time previously recorded by
Golding, of N.S.W. Yates and Hamp-
son, the Victorian and Ma State sprint
rivals, dead-heated in the 220, the
dockers making the time 21-|sec., equal
to Yates’s Australian record.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: It appears that “Austra-
lian authorities” have been making in-
quiries from the Empire Games Council
as to whether the contestants will object
to running on grass instead of the cinder
tracks which are universally used out-
side Australia. The reply, but only as
far as the English section is concerned,
is that, provided the tracks are level,
there will be no squealing. It is to be
hoped that South Africa and Canada will
demand cinder tracks and refuse to revert
to the mediaeval methods of Australian
athletic officials. Fifty years ago cinder
tracks were to be found in every prin-
cipal centre in Australia.
* * * *
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League
finances take on quite a modest air these
days compared with the roaring times
when the annual credit balance ran into
four figures. Though over £14,000 was
taken last season profit was only £374.
Nowadays the League has to pay out a
lot of money which never comes back,
the retention fund being a case in point.
Out-of-work city players have to be paid
to stay in town, and that is a costly
business.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: Brown, the Rugby
League player, who was offered a record
price to play with an English Rugby
League club, has turned the temptation
down like a patriot, and will be available
for the matches against the North of
England team which will shortly be play-
ing in N.S.W. and Queensland. His
offer from England was £9OO a year for
four years, all guaranteed. The N.S.W.
retainer, from one source or another, is
said to be £7OO for a year only. If that
is the case, Mr. Brown is a mug. A
chap who chooses to be a professional
gladiator should get as much brass as
possible during the brief career that lies
before all such. Professional football in
England has its unpleasant aspects, but
many Australians have braved the venture.
* * * *
Jachris”: The English Rugby League
team for Australia is a likely lot, the
only notable absentee being the five-
eighth Bennett—a colored gemmun,
apparently passed over for that reason.
Sullivan comes again as captain—it will
be his fourth trip ; he is still claimed to
be one of the greatest full-backs. Of
the others, all, with the exception of
Edwards, a wing man, and a forward,
Woods, played against the last Austra-
lian team in England. Ten members of
the team have been here before, Silcock
twice. One of the newcomers, Miller, a
front-row man, scales 15st., and all the
forwards are in proportion—Feetham, a
star loose forward with the last lot of
tourists, was “not rugged enough.”
Already papers like the Manchester
think they’ll develop into
something nearly unbeatable.” The
first match is against Sydney on May 30.
* * * *
Shore”: Roseville, for years cham-
pions of North Shore Rugby Union out-
side grade competitions, has been admitted
to the highest rank as Gordon, most of
the area from which it draws its players
being within that electorate and the
cricket district of the same name.
Northern Suburbs, which won the pre-
miership last year, has had its territory
encroached on by the new club, but it
has such a wealth of reserves to draw
upon that it should hardly feel the
change. The newcomer will bring the
number of grade clubs to 10. Chats-
wood oval will be G.H.Q
* * * *
Fifeeray”.. There is no upholder of
titude so uncompromising as the
habhual transgressor. For years Mel-
rne football clubs have been bribing
players to leave Westralia and South
aus. and join their organisations. There
was quite a painful scene at one Vic-
torian League club meeting when a prom-
ising young player produced a letter
from a Westralian club offering him
£7 10s. a week to desert his Melbourne
friends and hie him to the West. The
young man received a lecture on the sin
of ingratitude and various other things,
and it was pointed out to him that the
proposal was a breach of an honorable
undertaking. Choking down its indigna-
tion with difficulty, the meeting informed
the applicant that it would be dashed if
it granted him a clearance.
* * * *
“Thurston’s”: Playing Newman in
London, Davis made a break of 1177 —
a world’s record under the rule which
calls for a fresh start from baulk when-
ever a break of 200 has been reached.
What with purple cloths instead of green
and broken breaks it is difficult to keep
track of the game. One wonders if a
change in the color of the chalk is due
—a tartan variety would have a pleasing
effect. Worth noting, though, that young
Horace Lindrum, who had never played
under the new limit before leaving Aus-
tralia, also recently topped four figures—
eloquent testimony to the lad’s improve-
ment' since mixing with the masters.
* # % *
“Striped Chalk”: Walter Lindrum, just
back from the U.S.A., says billiards after
the American style is played by all and
sundry all over the country. One big bil-
liards goods firm keeps 30 men and
women on the run visiting private homes
to teach stroke methods and instil cor-
rect style. The favorite game is a com-
bination of pocket and cannon billiards,
and Walter had the pleasure of watch-
ing one champion, Rudolph, pot 277
consecutive numbered balls in numeri-
cal order. Lindrum forecasts a big bil-
liards shivoo in Australia about
Christmas, Newman and Joe Davis hav-
ing promised to come out and meet
McConachy and himself.


S||| A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-. tM
fk Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
fp. with private bathroom, from 22/- ftm
HOTEL
mm
witi}
• Other specialised services:
Con. Rod Remetalling, Pre-
cision Line Boring of Main
Bearings, Crankshaft Grind-
ing, and Gear Cutting.
Tractors and Teeth
are much the same
When your teeth fail, only a dentist can restore
efficiency. When tractor cylinders are worn,
only the practised skill of rebore specialists
can rebuild full power.
Hipsleys are specialists in tractor cylinder
grinding and fitting. Precision plant and
factory duplicate methods guarantee economy
and performance on the finished iob.
Hipsley service costs no more and is available
direct or through your own Garage. Get
your quotation t'o-day. The cost of running
a worn-out machine is greater than the cost
of repairs.
HIPSLEYS LIMITED
27-45 PALMER STREET, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED (In Voluntary
Liquidation).
(Under the supervision of the Supreme Court
of Queensland.)
NOTICE OF FINAL DIVIDEND.
TAKE NOTICE that the eighth and final
dividend of 2/3 in the £, making a total or
19/9 in the £, being the amount the Ordi-
nary Creditors have agreed to accept in full
satisfaction and discharge of all their claims
against the Bank, is intended to be declared
herein as soon as practicable after the -’lst
March, 1936. AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that if Creditors do not establish
their claims on or before such date we shall
proceed to make a final dividend without re-
gard to claims not established.
DATED this Second dav of March, 1936.
R. H. CUMMING,
R. B. FORD,
Joint Liquidators.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yo®
price for the original.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
N.S.W. Promotions Go to Victoria
Two N.S.W. promotions, General In-
surance Corp., Ltd., and Finance and
Insurance Corp., Ltd., are at present
seeking capital in Victoria. On the board
of both cos. is Colliss A. Parrett; audi-
tors and bankers are the same, and the
prospectus material is in many respects
similar. Offices are in Hunter-street and
Margaret-street, Sydney, respectively.
The G.I. Corp was registered at Can-
berra on September 5, 1935, and its
prospectus is dated September 11. F.
and I. Corp. was incorporated in N.S.W.
on January 16, 1936 ; the prospectus
carries date of February 3. Nominal
capital in each case is £lOO,OOO in 99,950
ords. of £1 each and 1000 B ords. of
a shilling each.
The G.I.C. B shares appear to be
entitled to 20 p.c. of the profits. The
F. and I.C. Bs take 10 p.c. among
themselves. The public is offered the
whole 99,950 ords. in the firstmentioned
concern at par. In the other case it is
offered 49,950 ords. at a premium of
2s. 6d. a share.
The G.I.C. aims principally at carrying
on motor-car insurance, making a fea-
ture of extended payment of premiums.
Its prospectus quotes details of a “Vic-
torian insurance co.” showing a profit of
54 p.c. on capital. These figures are
identical with those of the Automobile
Fire and General Co., which started in
1922 and received the valuable patronage
of the Victorian Royal Auto. Club.
About eight years ago it severed this
connection, but now gets the business of
the United Travellers’ Association and
the “Herald” Touring Club. The G.I.C.
will not have the support of any of these
bodies.
“Given able and careful management,
which is assured as a result of the
directors’ securing the services of Mr.
Parrett under a term agreement, the
shareholders of the G.I.C. can feel quite
confident of having a gilt-edged invest-
ment.” Details of the contract are not
in the prospectus ; and Mr. Parrett, in
any case, should be aware that not one
new float in a thousand can be termed
gilt-edged.
In 1925, in fact, Colliss A. Parrett pro-
moted the Home Provident Association,
and became governing director. One of
this co.’s objects was to advance money
on long terms on house properties. It
also speculated in land at Canberra.
The co. paid 10 p.c. on its ords. for a
few years during the boom ; then, with
slump and the Canberra real-estate
“bust,” much of what had previously
been regarded as profit turned out to be
loss. Fortunately the co. owed very
little. At June 30, 1932 (the last balance
sheet to hand), it had a capital of
£144,165, liabilities of £lOl4, debtors,
land, etc., £113,513, fittings £784, good-
will £2555, and p. and 1. debit balance
£30,710. Obviously every business,
especially a new one, has its dangers.
Who is to manage the Finance Insur-
ance Corp. isn’t stated. This concern
is to combine financing hire-purchase
agreements with insuring motor-cars.
The prospectus gives the “Victorian in-
surance co.’s” figures as well. It doesn’t
quote the experience of the Australian
Guarantee Corp. or Australian Securi-
ties, Ltd., in their motor-finance busi-
ness. Both these cos. had a thin time
for some years, and are only now begin-
ning to show much recovery. Australian
Securities shares, written down to Bs.,
may be picked up at slightly above par.
In neither the General Insurance Corp.
nor the Finance and Insurance Corp. do
the promoters ask for any cash or share
consideration. However, assuming that
profits are earned, the £5O-worth of B
shares in the F. and I. Corp. (subscribed
for before the prospectus was issued)
are entitled to a cut of 10 p.c. of total
earnings available for dividend. The
G.I.C. Bs take 20 p.c., and the public
isn’t offered any of this privileged class
of scrip.
In the case of Finance and Insurance
Corp., 50 shilling Bs (par value £2
10s.) are the qualification of a director ;
a member of the public has to put up
£250 in ords. before he is eligible.
The capital construction of each co.
and the method of presenting matter in
the prospectus leave much to be desired.
That is apart from the question of what
opportunities and qualifications the cos.
and their personnel may have that are
suggestive of a “gilt-edged investment”
or an ordinary business success.
Melbourne Stock Exchange showed a
more pronounced reaction to the Bank
of N. S. Wales’s deposit-rate increase
than Sydney. It was anticipated in some
“Toughest night's 'ousebreakin' I ever done, an I gets home to find the
strife's locked me out!"
quarters, and bears made the most of it.
Aust. Glass, 8.H.P., G. J. Coles, British
Tobacco, Carlton Brewery and Myers
were singled out for specal attention.
:{c * * *
The man in the street doesn’t know to
what extent Governments and banks are
prepared to chase each other in com-
petition for funds. The pace is likely to
be set by the Loan Council. The future
of interest rates to him is therefore un-
certain. Public-service salary restora-
tions and overseas jaunts aren’t likely to
make Budget control any easier, nor the
cost of Government borrowing lighter.
And the same man in the street, if on
the basic wage, wonders why these things
are happening.
Investors who bought stocks on their
individual merits shouldn’t be disturbed
by recent developments. Shares sent to
a speculative price by punters are an-
other matter. Sound and progressive con-
cerns giving a market yield of 4 p.c.
and over aren’t likely to be swapped for
fixed deposits giving from 2 p.c. to 3 p.c.,
or Consols yielding 3J p.c. But where
the yield on shares is around 3 p.c. it
calls for considerable future benefits to
justify the price.
* * * *
The possible effect of tighter money
on the building trades has been discussed
in many places this week. Kandos
Cement was one N.S.W. stock marked
down substantially on Sydney ’Change. In
that State during January 46 p.c. of
mortgages registered was done at rates of
4j p.c. or under. There is still prob-
ably a good deal of life assurance and
private finance available to the property
market.
* * * *
Calculation of yields on Australian
Consols, involving as it does the deduc-
tion of accrued interest and inclusion of
capital profit or loss on maturity, is be-
yond many people. They rely on pub-
' fished fists. In Melbourne, for some
time now, buying brokerage of ss. per
cent, has also been a factor. But Mel-
bourne ’Change ignores the item in its
calculations. Hence J. B. Were’s daily
fist, which deducts brokerage, on Febru-
ary 27 showed the yield (including re-
demption) on 1943 p.cs. at £3
12s. 4d. p.c. the official list quoted £3
13s. Id. p.c. To those buying through
Melbourne ’Change, Were’s is the truer
method.
* H-- * *
Yarra Falls, Gordon and Gotch and
Castlemaine-Perkins were all higher after
the March 2 market jolt than when
attention was directed to them in B.
26/2/’36.
* * *
British Tobacco has paid an ordinary
interim of If p.c., equal to 7 p.c. p.a.
On a 6 p.c. basis, the scrip recently
yielded less than 2.8 p.c. This stock was
one which slipped back last week. At
425. the return (7 p.c. basis) is a trifle
under 3.3 p.c. Previously quotes were
as high as 435. 6d.
Melbourne bank clearings during 1936
to date are up four millions on the same
period of 1935 with a total of 121.7 mil-
lions. Sydney clearings are up 14 mil-
lions in a total of 139 millions. N. S.
Wales has been >the busier State lately.
* * * *
Favorable trade balance to the end of
January was only £300,000 better than
a month earlier, when it stood at 10.3
millions. Merchandise exports for the
month were actually below the imports
level. Purchases of overseas goods for
January were 26.1 p.c. greater than for
the corresponding month of 1935.
Exports were up only 9.6 p.c. Greater
Customs revenue appears to have been
raised at the expense of Australia’s
credit.
❖ % *
World tin stocks showed their first
upward movement for three months in
February. The excess of production over
consumption was 2323 tons, and avail-
able supplies (14,480 tons) increased by
that amount. Stocks compare with
18,105 tons a year ago; the month’s
output was 11,635 tons (11,580 Feb., ’35),
with consumption at 9312 tons (6756
tons).
**■ * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of pig-
iron and steel to date this financial year
is up over 20 p.c. on last term. It will
be interesting to see how credit curtail-
ment affects the monthly figures from
now on. Last year 22.5 p.c. was visibly
earned on capital as it then stood. A
full year’s distribution of 12| p.c. on
the present share-register when the con-
tribs. are fully paid would call for
£653,945, or £16,497 less than was ex-
hibited last year.
$ $ $ $
In Melbourne last week:
Alban C. Morely, director of Australasian
Forestry Bondholders’ Trust Co., and pre-
viously a critic of the N.Z.P.F. bondholders’
conversion scheme (B. 19/2/’36), said in the
press: “The lengthy deliberations between N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, the trust co. and the N.Z.
Bondholders’ Incorporation Commission show
conclusively that, if the scheme as detailed
to me is carried out, every possible effort
will then have been made' to bring about
a practical, constitutional and effective form
of realisation.”
Loloma shares fell to a new low level during
Monday’s market plunge; from 18s. 3d. they
recovered to over 20s. on Tuesday, following
Dr. Loftus Hills’s remarks on “Fiji pessimists
who have been jeopardising their reputations.”
Emperors hit 11s. 6d. on Monday and Koroeres
3s. lid. Both stocks bore up again later.
Dr. Hills said the Tavua field is “dangerous
for pessimists to monkey with.” Perhaps so;
but optimists who paid up to 295. for Emperor
shares have found it disastrous, also —from a
market point of view. Parts of the field may
be good; but even good things have a price
limit.
Australian Glass ords. yielded only 3 p.c.
on the 88s. quoted three weeks ago (B.
19/2/’36). The scrip fell 2s. 9d. on Monday
and was weak on Friday at 83s. 6d., a fall of
ss. in about a fortnight.
Golden Plateau shares sagged below 16s.
on Monday, but recovered on Tuesday. More
favorable reports have come from the mine
regarding continuation of the higher values
at depth. The fact that the ore bodies are
lenticular—lenses often pinch out in depth—
and that mining by open-cut will not be pos-
sible below the tunnel level, where most of
the higher-value stone is now situated, have
depressed this stock. Still, buyers at the
present price (Friday, 17s. lOd.) are paying
something for prospects. It has been a won-
derful money-spinner in the past.
Broken Hill Prop, shares dropped 2s. on
heavy selling. The stock is a market leader,
and was therefore one of the tall poppies con-
centrated on when a break in prices was im-
minent. But bears will find this a tough nut
to crack. At 60s. the return is 4.1 p.c., which
looks as safe as most. Chief danger is that
curtailment of credit will affect construction
trades. But B.H.P’s. revenue can stand a
little contracting without endangering the 121
p.c. div.
Mt. Lyell shares, after being above 265.
a week or two previously, steadied around
245.
Wheat was slow of sale around 3s. 7d. a
bushel. There have been several false alarms
as regards a better price lately.


A
~ss
==ESC
" ::::; '**■ --- ' "" "'///"Z" /'■"?’. .Z'fJi ~' / &
" ..
'M
\
®s
?i
■«v
S 3 ~~
* to
CONSPICUOUS MILESTONES
IN TRAVEL MEMORY ■
ADEN
THE MANY PORTS on the
Orient Line Route constitute an
exhilarating sequence of diverse and
vivid scenes.
Aden. the British Military outpost and
fuelling station at which Orient liners call
between Colombo and Suez, lays no claim
to beauty; but its stark grandeur is a strik-
ing foil to the vivid colouring of Ceylon
and the surging "cosmopolis" of Egypt.
Aden interests the seeker after variety,
whether of peoples, places or climates; but
it holds him whose zest for travel brings
imagination into play . . . Even here, in
this arid corner of the world where nature
is in the raw, the British flag v/aves above
an important link of Empire. . . . The craters
in which lie the town and ancient reservoirs
(or "Tanks") are the gateways through
which for ages flowed the vast commerce
of the East, on its way to the marts of
Africa. Caravans from all parts of Asia
converged on Aden, carrying precious wares
for the dhows to bear across the Gulf.
Caravans, sometimes two hundred camels
strong, are to be seen in Aden to-day . . .
Across the desert but within easy reach by
car, is the oasis of Sheikh Othman . . . The
perfumes of Arabia are to be found in the
bazaars of the Tawahi Quarter.
Gaze out from the town's battlements on
a fine day! Across the Isthmus and the
Desert you will see the foothills of the great
Yemen Plateau, a hundred miles j away.
What thoughts such prospects conjure up!
You may have time to see the Salt Pans,
and their windmills, and the most ancient
shipyards in the world, where even now
they build dhows like those they built two
thousand years ago . . . But the famous
Tanks are Aden's pride. They were built,
it is said, by the Queen of Sheba. Often,
for years on end, these ancient and ingeni-
ous reservoirs are dry of water—but they
are never dry of interest.
The native inhabitants of Aden—Arabs,
Jews, Somalis, Indians—have little use for
water and none at all for cold weather.
But you will find Mocha Coffee in .the
bazaars or, perhaps, the "Perseus" Cocktqil
at the Club. You may notice, as you sip your
drink, that Aden's camels, though drawing
carts, look even more supercilious than ever!
And frequently you'll hear it said, "I
never thought of Aden before we started,
but it was so interesting—so unexpected!"
COLOMBO. ADEN. (CAIRO) PORT SAID, NAPLES. VILLEFRANCHE (MONTE CARLO,
MICE). TOULON. PALMA. GIBRALTAR, SOUTHAMPTON and so to LONDON i,
ORIENT LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Co., Ltd., Incorporated in England
R 0 V A L mAIL STEAmERS
Effect of the higher average price of
tin received by Malayan cos., as well as
increased production allowed under the
quota (90 p.c. at one stage, now reduced
to 80 p.c.), during the three months
ended December 31 is seen in this com-
parison of results of eight cos. operating
in the F.M.S.:
Sept. Quarter. Dec. Quarter.
T. 0., T. 0.,
Tons. Profit. Tons. Profit.
Southern Kinta 621 £67,550 865 £143,638
Kuala Kampar 397 21,470 296 46,648
Kampong Lanjut 179 16,440 206 18,176
Kramat 179 . 14,175 230 35,588
Maiim Nawar 36 *145 50 1,176
Rawang .... 300 18,476 273 42,748
Larut 145 14,026 98 12,483
Rawang Cons. 36 875 106 16,348
* Loss.
All are under management of the
Anglo-Oriental Mining Corp. Produc-
tion of the group stepped up from 1460
tons of concentrates in the June quarter
to 1893 and 2124 tons in the September
and December periods respectively.
Total profits rose from £98,650 to
£152,867 and £316,805 over the same
period. Average profit per ton of oxide
won (including some revenue from pool
stocks) has increased from £67 12s. to
£BO 17s. and £149 2s. Part of the im-
provement is due to the reduction in
overhead following on increased
throughput.
*■ * * *
The Emperor mine’s crushings under
the public co.:
Tons, Gold, Average,
Ore. Oz. Dwt.*
October 10, ’35 .... 365 360 19.7
November 2, ’35 .... 470 453 20.2
November 30, ’35 .. 644 490' 15.2
December 21, ’35 .. 530 383 14.5
January 25, ’36 .... 1230 764 15.3
February 22, ’36 .... 1470 916 13.7
* Includes loss in tailings.
Lower values have been met with in
development recently, but principal
reason for the drop in recoveries seems
to be that high-grade ore is not so easy
to find in bulk. As tonnages have gone
up average yields have fallen. The
prospectus put average values of ore
reserves at 13.4dwt.
* * * *
“Ex Div.”: My Melbourne share-
broker —I found his advice sound in the
case of Mt. Morgans—avers that, in his
opinion, Emperor and Loloma are good
properties. Guided by comments in The
Bulletin from time to time, I told him
I didn’t doubt the possibility of that;
but, on the other hand, I didn’t like pay-
ing too much for possibilities, especially
when they cost £600,000 and were as far
away as Fiji. He concurs in that the
shares went far too high at the jump, but
reckons that this time next year will
see improvement on the present market.
On Emperor he puts a valuation of
17s. 6d., Loloma 30s. But at this stage
I always turn the conversation to indus-
trials, which are more in my line.
* * * *
Mandated Alluvials has exercised its
option over the Moresby King mine,
Papua. There are 70,000 ss. shares
issued, the contribs. paid to 3s. Pioneer
Expedition, N.L., owns 13,500 shares.
There has been a lot of market activity
lately. Last Friday Sydney quotes were
around 10s. 6d. Development on the
Moresby King lode is reported to have
disclosed good values over considerable
width.
* * * *
The buyer of 100 Australian Knitting
Mills shares at 28s. 9d. becomes entitled
to a distribution of 56 Yarra Falls £1
ords. These are at 40s. on the market.
If the Y.F. scrip is sold at that price, the
cost of A.K.M. shares is reduced to
6s. 4d. But Yarra scrip is worth hold-
ing (and buying); it has great possibili-
ties, being the largest textile enterprise
in the Commonwealth. It is a question
which is the better means of purchase—
through A.K.M. or straightout. The first
method has interesting possibilities.
* * * *
Australian Glass is said to be contem-
plating establishing a cut-glass factory in
S.A. —probably at Kilkenny, where it has
bottle works alongside the Port railway.
The factory would give work to 250
hands.
* * * *
Talkie scrip still attracts little interest.
Amalgamated ords. are at Bs. Bd.,
Spencers at Bs. 2d., Greater J. D. Wil-
liams about the same, and Wests
at 12s. In order to pay 5 p.c. on the
capital of all these holding cos., the
Union Theatres group would have to
pass along about £60,000 a year. In pro-
portion to capital, West’s would get the
largest share of the income, Spencer’s
next, then Greater J. D. Williams and
Amalgamated. Miscellaneous assets out-
side U.T. interests makes the scrip some-
what hard to value on a comparative
basis, though West’s, with 2s. 4d. in Con-
sols, cash, etc., and 2s. Bd. (book value)
in freeholds, seems a good buy. Amal-
gamated is also interesting. Both these
concerns have been able to show a small
profit from income outside of their U.T.
holdings.
* * * *
Wiluna shares —dealings are practically
restricted to Adelaide, outside of London
—are changing hands round 70s. in Aus-
tralia. London sales have been at 555. stg.,
equal to about 695. Australian. Market
valuation of the show is £5,460,000
(Aust.). Greater output is aimed at, and
the change-over to smelting is expected to
reduce costs and increase recoveries. A
forlorn hope it seemed some years back.
Now, about 45,000 tons a month is being
treated at a cost of slightly more than
20s. a ton; and annual production of
gold is worth £1,000,000 a year in Aus-
tralia’s exports.
* * * , *
At' 14s. a share (they can be got a bit
cheaper), Triton (Cue, W.A.) is valued at
£576,000. Development work has indi-
cated remarkably consistent values of
about 7dwt. over widths up to 9ft. The
yield from milling lately has been slightly
less than 7dwt. A return of 15 p.c. on
present market price from the treatment
of 7000 tons a month shouldn’t be diffi :
cult' of achievement when the plant is
properly run in.
* * * *
Mount Morgan scrip, now 2s. 6d. de-
nomination, has weakened to 16s. (ex
rights). The new issue of 372,000 shares
will bring the register total up to
2,228,000 half-crown shares. The buyer
at 16s. for the old scrip pays on the
basis of £1,782,400 for the mine, includ-
ing the present liquid resources and the
new capital (£186,000, including pre-
mium). On a 60 p.c. div. basis, which
should be bettered when the plant for
treating low-grade oxidised ores gets
going, the gross yield is 9.3 p.c. at 16s.
The purchaser of rights at ss. eventually
pays 155., ignoring what he doesn’t get
in dividends. Either method of pur-
chase is a good opportunity to buy into
what has turned out to be a highly
profitable mine. Last year 178,000 tons
of ore was treated. On a throughput of
300,000 tons a year there is a life of
over 20 years ahead of the show, granted
reasonable freedom from labor troubles
and any startling downward movement
in the price of gold.
* * * *
Granites Development started at The
Granites, went to Westralia, then to
Fiji; now it has acquired a third-
interest in a lease at Tennant’s Creek.
In fact, it seems to have followed the
boom all the way round. Money hasn't
given out; at balance day there was
£3561 in hand. There are 200,000 con-
tribs., paid to 2s. Bd., which the market
prices at about 4d. The lOs.-paids
(30,000) haven’t' a big market.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Bride Comes Home”
It’s a wonder how these magazine
editors in the talkies ever get anything
written. They sit all day putting bits of
paper in a typewriter and tearing them
out again. Fred Mac Murray is one of
these temperamental lads in “The Bride
Comes Home.” He had a female assis-
tant (Claudette Colbert) wished on to
him by the owner (Robert Young) and
did his best to show her she was a
nuisance. So they fell in love, but as
they had awful tempers and quarrelled
on the slightest provocation they decided
not to marry. The lady promised, in-
stead, to become Mrs. Magazine-owner.
Enters on the scene her papa, who takes
the young editor aside: “See that' por-
trait? That’s her mother, dead now this
many a year. Beautiful, isn’t she? See
this old chair? You wouldn’t think she
could lift it, but I bear the scars on my
scalp, here and here. We had to mend
that chair with wire and iron clamps
again and again, but I cherish it. We
fought, but we wouldn’t have been happy
without each other to scrap with.” En-
lightened by this exposition of the in-
gredients of married bliss, editor climbs
aboard a motor-cycle and arrives some-
where just in time to stop his boss’s wed-
ding and substitute him-
se 1 f as bridegroom.
Well-acted, and stocked
with plenty of inciden-
tal humor. At Sydney
Prince Edward.
“Coronado”
A fantasia inhabited
by crooners, chorines,
gobs and jazz bands.
Alice White, a poor but
honest cabaret-singer,
is wooed by a callow
millionaire who is a
song-composer (or what
passes for a composer
in saxophone circles).
Burton Churchill is a
sympathetic papa. After
over an hour of tap-
dancing and crooning
everything comes right.
Also at the Prince
Edward.
“East of Java”
Red Bowers (Charles Bickford), a
“wanted,” escapes from an East African
port by bribing the Chinese captain
(Leslie Fenton) of a tramp carrying a
cargo of wild animals. Also on board
as passengers are Larry (Frank Albert-
son) and his girl Ann (Elizabeth Young).
The ship is wrecked in a typhoon, and
eight survivors are cast up on an island,
along with the lions and tigers.
Bowers’s personality asserts itself, and
he constitutes himself leader. One by
one the party fall to the ravenous lions,
until only Bowers, Wong 80, Larry,
Ann and a native boy are left. Larry
hits on the idea of releasing a talking
bird with a homing instinct (how it sur-
vived the typhoon while caged is not
explained), and Wong 80, in giving the
chart position, adds to the note which is
tied to the bird’s neck a claim for the
20,000 dahlars reward for Bowers’s cap-
ture. Bowers learns of this and kills
the Chinese captain. But the feathered
friend of man does its work faithfully,
and a rescuing aeroplane lands. Ann,
Larry and the Chinese boy escape,
Bowers covering their retreat from a
precarious ledge by holding off the
ravenous lions with torches. He is
trapped on the ledge to satisfy the
appetites of the jungle kings, while the
others get away.
Bickford as the bad man who redeems
himself is excellent, giving the touch of
brutality needed for the role. Leslie
Fenton is a suave Oriental. Elizabeth
Young looks frightened convincingly, and
Frank Albertson hasn’t much to do but
does it capably. One regret is that one of
the black crew, Johnson (Clarence
Muse), was one of the first, instead of
one of the last, victims of the lions’
hunger—his deep, resonant voice is de-
lightful. Lighting is subdued almost
throughout, and is very effective. At
Sydney Capitol.
“To Beat the Band”
Also at the Capitol. It’s about a
bachelor who is advised by a lady lawyer
that his rich aunt had given the mortal
coil a miss and left him 59 million dol-
lars, provided he married a widow
within three days. He is engaged to a
young woman, so he arranges for her to
marry a convenient crooner bent on sui-
cide, who agrees to commit hara-kiri
immediately after the ceremony. But
the crooner falls for the girl and won’t
“ Strange, there’s no E flat!”
give her up. Of course, the bachelor
then marries the middle-aged lawyer
lady, who is a widow, only to find that
aunt isn’t dead at all. The two bright spots
in the thing are Eric Blore’s interpreta-
tion of a haughty butler and some clever
tap-dancing by Sonny Lamont. Hugh
Herbert plays his old tricks, but they
cloy. The others, Helen Broderick in-
cluded, are wooden. And if anyone
wants to work up a good shudder the
awful cacophony of two dance bands
playing at once combined with the fright-
ful crooning of Roger Pryor will
ensure it.
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
Now being introduced to Melbourne
at the Plaza. Each scene, however short,
is a work of art, the casting is excel-
lent, the fairy effects are bewilderingly
beautiful and the comedy tickles the ribs
of even the most arrogant critic; but
there are two schools of thought about
the amount of entertainment provided.
One camp gets the fidgets and wishes
it had gone to see “Down East” ; the
other sits entranced with eyes and ears
tuned to the artistry of a masterpiece.
The lovers of melodrama are entitled to
their opinions, but they’d do well to
give their children a chance of seeing
Max Reinhardt’s production. Young-
sters of all ages revel in the show, and
don’t even know that they are being
homceopathically educated in art, litera-
ture and music.
“Hell Bent for Love”
Maisie (Lilian Bond), a crooner in a
night club belonging to a gang leader (all
New York’s super-criminals run sump-
tuously appointed night clubs and wear
ironclad shirts in the daytime), is
“booked” by Police Captain Tim Bailey
(Tim McCoy) for speeding. They pal
up, but the friendship is frowned upon
by her employer ; when it continues the
big shot, jealous, “fits” the cop and has
him sacked. But the square-jawed Tim
is not beaten —no, sir! He enlists the
aid of some ex-crooks he has befriended
in the past and, working secretly, baffles
the gang leader at every turn, eventually
exposing him and breaking up his orga-
nisation, a thing he couldn’t possibly
have done while in uniform. After the
showdown he is, of course, readmitted to
the Force and gets his just reward. The
poor, honest goil, being thus thrown out
of her jahb, has to give up her maid and
her luxurious flat to become Tim’s wife.
There is plenty of furious action, includ-
ing a motor-cycle race at a police car-
nival. The plot is better-knit than is
usual in this type of film, and the cast
is strong enough to do justice to it.
“Seven Keys to Baldpate”
A stout old warhorse of a comedy,
still going strong. Fred Niblo played
it on the stage in Australia umpteen
years ago ; it flickered on the screen in
the days of the silent's, and three or four
years ago it was talkified, with Richard
Dix in the lead. Gene Raymond, Mar-
garet Callahan, Eric Blore and Grant
Mitchell figure in the latest edition. The
nerve-racking atmosphere of the deserted
inn and the brisk action that follows the
irruption of gangsters make the affair
interesting, but the humor has worn very
thin. Previewed at Film House, Sydney.
“Get Off My Foot”
This is one of the initial products of
an American film co.’s English branch
—a farce of the sort in which types are
grossly caricatured, and in which people
trip over things. Max Miller is a Smith-
field meat porter who, believing he had
committed murder, ran away and became
a butler. Hearing that' he was to inherit
a fortune his double-crossing barmaid
sweetheart attempted to blackmail him.
Everything ends happily. Here again
the acting is better.than the plot. Miller
is as individual a Cockney as Sam
Weller ; Toney Hankey is a chip off an-
other part of the same block, and the
other characters are convincing until the
crude absurdities of the scenario betray
them into imbecilities. At Sydney
Lyceum.
“Whispering Smith Speaks”
Weakest feature of this talkie is its
title, for Smith doesn’t whisper. He is
the son of a railroad czar who, against
his dad’s wishes, goes out to get experi-
ence as engine-cleaner and trackwalker
rather than be an ornamental vice-presi-
dent. George O’Brien represents the,,
high-souled young man ; Irene Ware is
the girl. Villains, including the railroad
czar, are attempting to gyp Miss Ware
out of the profits of a tungsten mine. To
circumvent them Smith has to steal one
of his father’s locomotives and race an
express to Denver with it. Interest is
well maintained and the railroading
background is remarkably well done.
Previewed at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
Some First Nights
The new Shaw play, “The Million-
airess,” at Melbourne King’s—hot from
the old master’s hand, so to speak, since
it had only had one presentation, in
Vienna, before Gregan McMahon got
hold of it—-looks less like a work of
Shaw’s maturity than of his beginnings.
It threatens here and there to flower, but
wilts immediately and becomes reitera-
tive. It can’t have been written for fame
or money, since Shaw has more than he
needs of both those commodities, so it
is probably the product of a lifelong
habit of industry, which is difficult to
get out of, even at the age of 80.
It deals with conflicts of matrimony,
but these were better handled in “Can-
dida” ; and its leading character is the
managing, sexless type of woman who
was better depicted in “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion” and a host of other
plays. Shaw seems to feel a sneaking
admiration for as well as a good deal of
resentment towards this type of woman,
and there is no doubt he knows a great
deal about her. His millionairess has
been left comparatively a pauper by her
father, who be-
queathed her only
£30,000,000 out of
a fortune of
£150,000,000. Like
most rich people
who have had every-
thing given to them,
she is sick of spend-
ing money, but is
mean about it. When
she marries an
amateur boxer for his physical attractive-
ness all they can do is to fight with their
fists ; his only answer to her domineer-
ing ways is to punch her on the solar
plexus. She takes a lover, who is a con-
genital bachelor concerned with making
himself comfortable. She throws him
down the stairs, having learnt something
of the art of fisticuffs. She then suc-
cumbs to an Egyptian doctor, who is not
interested in her as a woman, but finds
a scientific pleasure in studying her blood
pressure. This is such a lame conclu-
sion to an important problem that one
can only say, since Shaw once showed
that he knew better, that he got bored
with his latest plaything, wondered why
he had bothered to write it, and broke
it in a fit of petulance.
If the play falls below par in the
Shavian canon, it at least had the benefit
on Saturday of an excellent production
at ihe hands of Gregan McMahon.
As the millionairess, Enid Hollins
bore the heat and burden of the
play, and bore it splendidly. David
Reid, Wilbur Reed, Judy Price, Gordon
Rice, Collins Hilton, Edgar Veitch and
Phyllis Bones were admirably placed,
and Cuthbert Barrington was a hotel
manager who misplaced a line or two.
All but part of the gallery was sold out
on the first' night, and the laughter and
the applause were as plentiful as audi-
ence.
»I* -I-
Sydney Kursaal exuded gore on Satur-
day when Scott Alexander presented a


A
m.
m
<
Mtii
KEEPING
UP-TO-DATE
COUNTLESS tests check each progressive step in the making
of Philips Valves.. .nothing escapes the vigilant eye and
cold calculation of man or machine.
Thus has the reputation of Philips Valves been built and main-
tained ... KEEPING RADIO UP-TO-DATE ... offering the best
valve equipment that .money can buy.
A.C., A.C./D.C. or Battery ... no matter what type of set you buy
k insist.on Philips Metal Clad Valves.
BLIPS
METAL CLAD VALVES
5R-53
BALANCE SHEET
OP THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralta
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1935.
LIABILITIES.
75,263,395 9 4
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 562,840 0 8
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments . . .. 75 826,235 10 0
Note Issue Department .. .. 55,238,331 3 6
£131,064,566 13 6
ASSETS.
£ sd
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 677,744 11 3
£131,064,566 13 6
PROFIT AND LOSS
Cr.
„ . £ B d
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 107,044 9 6
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 107,044 9 6
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve. Fund 10,867 16 0
„ Development Fkind 10,867 16 0
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury .. 403,156 15 1
£638,981 6 1
£ s d
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1935:—
,, Banking Business 214,088 19 0
„ Rural Credits Department .. 21,735 12 0
„ Note Issue Department .. .. 403,156 15 1
£638,981 6 1
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£ s' d
2,137,821 15 4
£2,137,821 15 4
£ s d
By Balance 2,030,777 5 10
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits of Banking
Business 107,044 9 6
£2,137,821 15 4
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. P. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 17th February, 1936.
Note Issue Department
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Notes in Circulation 51,294,936 0 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 8,490 10 0
Special Reserve—
Premium on Gold Sold. .3,894.904 13 6
Other Liabilities 40,000 0 0
£55,238,331 3 6
ASSETS.
£ s d
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve 15,994,026 18 1
Debentures and other Securities 39,181,701 2 3
Olher Assets 62,603 3 2
£55,238,331 3 6
Certified Correct,
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 17th February, 1936.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 31st DECEMBER, 1935.
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Reserve Fund 2,170,552 5 6
Depositors’
Balances £131,287,532 19 10
With Interest
Accrued 1,191,758 7 9
- 1 132,479,291 7 7
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 4,977,184 16 10
£139,627,028 9 11
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Cash Balances and Monev
at Short Call ! 14,431,355 0 0
Australian Notes 165,682 10 0
Government Securities . . .. 88,248,843 6 6
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities.. 32,297,332 12 6
Other Assets 3,398,758 13 3
Bank Premises 1,085,056 7 8
£139,627,028 9 11
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
£ s d
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund 81,246 6 4
„ National Debt Sinking Fund.. 81,246 6 4
£162,492 12 8
£
s d
By Profit for Half-year ended
31st December, 1935, after pro-
vision for payments amounting
to £112,944 6s 4d due to
State Authorities under Sav-
ings Bank Amalgamation
Agreements _ 162,492 12 8
£162,492 12 8
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
Cr.
To Eaknee
£ ad
2 170,552 5 6
£2,170.552 5 6
£ s d
By Balance 2,089,305 19 2
,, Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits 81,246 6 4
£2,170,552 5 6
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 17th February, 1936.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-Genera] 0 f the Commonwealth as to the correctness of
the above accounts have been given.
batch of Grand Guignol horrorettes.
Most marrow-chilling was “The Woman
Who Saw,” the unmasking of a wife-
slayer. Wilson Irving played him and
Dorothy Fraser the murdered woman
with telling eeriness. Little less blood-
curdling, “The Grip,” a paralysed
pugilist’s hair-raising revenge, showed
Scott Alexander and Bessie Swan to
grim advantage; while “The Man
Without a Face,” a mutilated soldier’s
return from the dead, proved spine-
freezing propaganda in the hands of
Henry Messent, Ruth Pettersen and
Treasure Richardson. Acceptable diver-
tissements in this region of the macabre
were two jovial flippancies—“ The Man
in There,” a jollity of frayed nerves, and
"Only Ten Minutes to Live,” in which
Arch Hull, a comic ruffian, almost
skittled the wrong person.
Martin-place, by Vassilieff, at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney.
Current Artbursts
A show of English water-colors in
Anthony Horderns’ gallery comprises pic-
tures mainly of a period and of schools
that had no sympathy with impression-
ism, prized good draughtsmanship and
cherished rules of color harmony and
composition. When E. Wake Cook, to
mention a typical case, undertook to
present the appearance of the Venetian
waterfront he didn’t make four pink
blobs to represent cupolas, a daub of
green for sea and one of blue for sky.
He meticulously drew and colored every
detail of architecture, every human figure,
every gondola; examined every cloud
and analysed every reflection. Seen at
a distance of 100 feet his Venice looks
rather less like the real thing than the
work of a six-blob expert', and modern
critics say the labor was wasted. But
was it? These exquisite drawings don’t
go with tubular chairs and vorticist lamp-
shades, but they chime well with the
wares of Chippendale and Hepplewhite
and with all those other furnishings that
belong to an age when fine craftsmanship
was respected and the products of the
plumber were barred from the boudoir.
The pictures on show are not all of
the sort that invites the microscope.
Some Lee Hankey figure studies leave
something to the imagination, and Sutton
Palmer and Hughes-Stanton distinguish
between what things look like and what
they are. Also there is a quite fiercely
impressionistic picture by W. Walcot that
shouldn’t be in this show at all. It looks
like a water-color touched up with oils,
but this unforgiv-
able mixture has
not been per-
p e t ra t e d. The
drawing is on
cardboard, no t
canvas, and the
much thinned-out
color that forms
the base of the
picture has spread
slightly here and
there, giving the
sort of ink-on-
blotting -paper
effect that
Blamire Young
exploited so clev-
erly in another
medium.
*1- -I*
Thirty-five can-
vases by a painter
who signs him-
self simply “Vas-
silieff” hang at
the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney.
They comprise
impressions
gleaned in Lon-
don, Lisbon, Bristol, the West Indies and
Sydney, and in place of conventional
frames they are surrounded by wood
or canvas painted in tone with the sub-
ject. These pictures have been described
by various critics as “ultra-modernist” ;
and it goes without saying more that
there is in them no pretence of natural
presentation of form or color. The
painter aims, apparently, at revealing one
essential characteristic of the thing seen.
In this, as proved by his portrayal of
some of Sydney’s back streets, he suc-
ceeds. The drabness, dirtiness and
squalor of these regions as they strike
a stranger is pungently expressed. But
it is first impression without understand-
ing. On further acquaintance those same
streets can exude something very near to
quiet beauty. M’ Vassilieff does not
traffic in that' sort of beauty ; he can,
however, when in the mood, see beauties
of color denied to less acute perception.
His version of Sydney’s Cambridge-street
is as gorgeous as a rainbow, but remains
as sinister as a coffin. A night scene in
a dull street is black and white with tinges
of red, and looks right though quite
wrong. Human figures are presented in
the Gaguin' manner with deliberate clum-
sinesses and distortions.
•b 4* *l*
Maoriland caricaturist Alan Reeve has
a show of portraits in color in David
Jones’s gallery, Sydney. Subjects are
mostly Sydpey folk, with a few from
Melbourne and a couple from the
Shivery Isles. Some are very good like-
nesses, others miss, but all are executed
with good humor, and it woujd be sur-
prising to hear that any of the sitters,
even the ladies, bear any resentment.
Writer of these notes liked best the
sketches of Earl Beauchamp, Charles
Lloyd Jones, Rufe Naylor and Margaret
Vyner.
Adelaide Repertory announced at' its
annual meeting a membership of 900 and
a comfortable nest-egg invested. The
old officials were re-elected, but a keen
contest of 15 for the 10 places on the
board ended in four old members being
displaced. The chief feature of the meet-
ing was an attack by Dr. McLauchlan,
a former board member, on the “inferior
or lowbrow” type of plays latterly given.
The chairman, Talbot Smith, replied that
the board had received at one and the
same meeting letters in that strain and
others reproaching it for being too high-
brow and dull. Last season’s mixed offer-
ing was Priestley’s “Dangerous Corner,”
Maugham’s “Sacred Flame,” Van
Druten’s “Behold, We Live,” “The Mask
and the Face,” from the Italian, and “The
Devil,” by Benn Levy.


ML53
j*is
IN ' £>Xj vft.
fit
IJ1HERE should be a Mazda lamp in
your cupboards and wardrobe. All
that business of groping in semi-
darkness is fooling and unnecessary.
m
INGOT Riding Breeches and Jodphurs are
right in style, right in cut, right in quality,
moderate in price. Into every stitch, seam
and curve goes the experience that comes from
a lifetime of outfitting the equestrienne.
These hard-wearing garments will keep their
shape and color after repeated washings.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
To her little friends at Blackfriars
Mrs. Stevens paid a special farewell visit
before sailing off with her Premier for
England and Europe. The whole family
has been caught up in the whirl of good-
byes, and the Premier has made speeches
till even his throat surely felt the
strain. At the opening of the new
National Club rooms, Mrs. Stevens must
have begun to wonder if “good-bye,
come back soon,” were the most used
words of the language. But the truly
family party of the week was given by
500 or more U.A.P.-ers in the Croydon
Masonic Hall. Besides music and dancing
there were a black-and-white silk scarf
for father, a large size morocco hand-
bag and heaps of flowers for mother,
leather-bound diaries for the girls and
an autograph album for Ken.
High tea and high ideals were the fare
at the Feminist Club last Thursday when
the Duncan Halls made Peace and the
League of Nations’ efforts to ensure it
the backbone of their speeches. The
Duncan Halls —they are both Sydney-
ites—are fresh from Geneva, where before
he was made liaison officer between the
League and the Dominions press he was
running the secretariat that policed the
noxious-drug supply of the world. The
Federation of Women Voters had
arranged the party, and with Ruby Rich,
experienced in many conferences, to intro-
duce two guests who have lived with their
subject the affair was the most cordial
of speak-easies. The Women Voters —the
Feminists’ president, Mrs. Cameron, and
vice-president, Mrs. Price Morris, among
them —couldn’t have enough of Duncan.
He made one speech, rushed away to the
A.B.C. and the ladies listened to his
broadcast. When he came back they
asked him to speak again.
The Mariposa took, among others, the
John Hodge couple on the first stage of
their honeymoon. The Hodges met and
married in a whirl of romance. She was
Peggy Ann Kent, of Park-avenue, New
York, daughter of a film magnate. John’s
father is an English baronet. They
arrived, were married on a Sunday (that
caused a lifted eyebrow or two, though
there’s nothing in church law against it);
they were entertained by the Stanley S.
Cricks at their Wahroonga home, Berith
Park, and turned their faces to New
York. The young bridegroom is not 23 ;
his bride will not be 20 until June.
Artist Unk White goes off to Europe,
but before he sails he is putting on a
good show in the Macleod Gallery.
Here are water-colors, pencils and pen-
and-ink drawings that have fun in them
as well as charm. Unk is rather a dash-
ing blade himself, especially when he
gets busy with the foils. It is as a
fencer that Archibald Prize winner
Hanke has painted him, and the result
is one of Hanke’s most' graceful and
spirited bits of work. Unk White is an
Aucklander, and musician as well as
artist, his instrument being the violin.
One of the happiest things in the show,
which opens to-day, is the cow in the
nursery frieze.
Mrs. Marguerite Dale, the Lyceum
Club’s guest at lunch last Friday, gave
members a piquant outline of her recent
flight from Darwin to England. “You
don’t feel nervous —there’s really nothing
to be nervous about —and you don’t feel
giddy as in looking down from a height
on land. And if you don’t like the bag-
pipes at such close quarters you forgive
the fellow-passenger who insists on play-
ing them (let me call him Jeremiah)
even in such unappreciative environments
as Bagdad or Delhi. In Italy I thought
the people were rather sad, but they
never gave us a hostile look. It was a
wonderful trip, and we had wonderful
luck in the weather, arriving at Croydon
in the first gusts of a gale that later took
charge of the air trails.” Mrs. Mary Gil-
more, in the chair, wore a shell-pink hat
for the occasion.
The lady with the classical head is
Norma Gadsen, known to a wide circle
of Sydney friends as Dolly Gadsen before
she went to Europe with the ambition to
become one of the world’s great Wag-
nerian singers. Dolly’s father, T. Smith,
told this Letter the other ’day of his
daughter’s recent success at Monte Carlo.
She made her debut as Brunnhilde on
the stage where Melba and Caruso
have sung. She captured her audi-
ence at once, and Gunsberg, director of
the opera house, himself sent a cable of
congratulation to the parents of the Aus-
tralian singer. Before her Wagnerian
appearance the Melbourne-Sydney girl
had had some months in Germany study-
ing with the greatest Brunnhilde of the
day. For six years she has been a pupil of
Madame Dinh Gilly in Paris, New York
and the Metropolitan Opera House are
in the offing.
The French section of the Modern
Languages Association packed the assem-
bly hall of the Education Department
for the lecture by the De Chanterac
couple on their voyage to Tahiti and the
South Sea Islands. The lady did the
speaking; her husband illustrated the
talk with some beautiful lantern slides.
President of the French section Cecile
Prevost was responsible for the evening’s
success, and some of our best florists
for the flower offerings to the smiling
lecturer and to the wife of France’s
Consul-General. The C.-G. himself
made graceful thanks to all implicated.
White, glittering and hygienic, the
radio and electrical exhibition turns the
Town Hall into a sort of wizard’s home
where the sheets and curtains would be
hemmed in the twink of an eye by a
buzzing army of slaves in the sewing-
machine, then boiled and rinsed and
blued by the tireless imps in the electric
washer, and finally ironed on a contriv-
ance that looks like a mangle. To do
the ironing the wizard’s wife or maid
merely seats herself, cool and calm,
before this modern ironing-table, and
slips the garment into position. What
would housekeepers of long ago, stand-
ing and pressing on a flatiron while other
irons cooked themselves to the proper
heat on a roasting range, have thought
of such luxury, or even of the comfort
of the ordinary electric iron? If you
are, by the way, of that number who
still believe that an iron smooths out
a family row better than any other argu-
ment there are many brands to choose
from.
The snowy Everests of refrigerators
arise, cool and self-contained, on every
side. The only thing about them that
is not soothing is the price. Electric
stoves, almost aggressively white and
shiny, on which water boils in six
minutes, are welded to small-size freezers.
These twins of the tropics and the Arctic
are just the thing for bachelor flats. The
civic hall and its basement are full of
marvels. You can speak to London, you
can send a telegram and follow its career
till it starts on its journey. If you are
still thinking of labor-saving, what about
an automatic mixer that not only whisks
eggs and the icing for the cakes, but
mashes potatoes, makes mayonnaise, peels
potatoes, grinds coffee, polishes the silver,
sharpens knives and makes ice-cream?
This Letter likes the radios that have
something the look of an ivory clock, can
stand on a mantelpiece and can bring as
much music, anyway, into the home as
the old cuckoo timepiece.
France’s new Consul-General Suzor
and his wife found their way over to the
Mosman home of Mrs. Ivy Moore on
one of our Arctic nights. There they
were met by such bursts and paeans of
their native language that their hearts
and smiles grew glad. About 40 guests,
French and Australian, had rallied to
welcome the Suzors, and all were as
volubly Gallic as Sir Hugh Poynter, the
new president of the French Alliance.
Lady Poynter, who wore a bright smile
and a graceful frock ; Nina Campbell,
who had been recently at the League of
Nations ; the Meyers, the De Chanteracs
and Mrs. A. B. Crowther were of the
party. Mrs. G. D. Moore, whose hus-
band was at sea captaining the Yarra,
helped her sister-in-law.
After 12 years’ absence the Baroness
de Tuyll is revisiting Sydney. The Baron-
ess, who is a sister of Mrs. Roystone
Davey and of Dr. H. V. Hordern
(“Googlies” Hordern), married for the
second time in England, and her hus-
band’s place, Wood Manor, is in Cob-
ham, Surrey. His half-brother is the
Duke of Beaufort, whose wife is Lady
Mary Cambridge, a niece of the Queen.
The Baron and Baroness are at present
spending a fortnight in Leura in their
mountain cottage. Photograph from
Montgomery-Dunn.
On such a day as might have been the
gracefully limned background of one of
his own poems, Arthur Adams’s friends
saw him on his last journey. The funeral
service was held at the North Shore
Crematorium, a quiet building ringed
about with grassy slope and virgin bush.
Mrs. Adams and Suzette, June and Peter,
a sad quartet, were the chief mourners.
Joe Fallon had bad luck when he
struck the Californian coast. He was
off on a holiday, and at Los Angeles
he went motoring and was mixed
up in an accident. A bad crack
on the head and some facial injuries
were one result. Another was that
the ship went on without the Sydney
man, but with all his gear, and a quick
cable home for money was the first his
anxious mother heard about it. Latest
news is “doing favorably.”
Danilo Vassilieffs show is bringing
shoals of gazers to the Macquarie Gal-
leries. One or two Sydney artists have
captured paintings for themselves, and
this Letter saw two or three collectors of
art making keen survey of the Russian
artist’s wares. His work has broken
conventional restraints, his colors are
riotous, but the artist himself is a quiet
man with a mild glance. He has lived
in China (Shanghai and Hong Kong),
Manchuria and Singapore. He speaks
English well. The only time he seemed to
grow at all forceful on the afternoon of
the show’s opening was when somebody
remarked that Russian was a difficult lan-
guage to learn. The painter said he
found it the simplest of tongues.
The opening, done in effective style by
Vice-Consul for the Netherlands Vige-
veno, drew both the artistic and the well-
dressed. Elioth Gruner and Syd Ure
Smith were visitors ; so was Dr. Temple
Smith. Jocelyn Poynter brought a nice
catch of frangipanni and Gwen Ramsay.
Linda Paul was cool and caped in blue
and white. Mrs. Vigeveno, who was trig
in a tawny suit, is a portrait painter.
Vassilieffs family have been ikon painters
for many generations.
Evening frocks and cloaks this season
suggest that the dress designers did a
Sunday-morning dash through the Pitti
and Uffizi galleries, and thereupon went
all Old Masterish. Madonna blues and
lovely faded-rose and violet tones are
reproduced very well in fabrics that are
then cut flowing and long (not so much
trained). Every second dress has its front
ruched, and from this ruching it falls in
fulness. There are bretelles and shoulder
drapes that sometimes are capelike and
sometimes drift in languid grace to the
floor. Benvenuto Cellini himself might
have designed some of the girdles with
their antique settings and crustings of
emerald and ruby. These girdles are part
of the classic and somewhat Florentine
styles. The always lovable taffeta holds
its own. Flowers bloom on every low-
cut neckline. Gold and silver sandals,
gold and silver handbags and long, pastel-
toned suede and kid gloves will put color
into our winter nights.
Oswald Cheeke and Patrick Bellew,
who were to have left Australia for Eng-
land last week, are both ill in Tusculum.
Oswald, who collapsed with a heart
attack some weeks ago, will, the doctors
say, spend many weeks to come in bed.
Patrick, who was attending to their
affairs, was stricken with pneumonia, and
had to be tucked up in the same hos-
pital. For Oswald the place is thronged
with echoes of other days—lunch parties
and such of his grandmother’s days when
Henry Parkes, W. B. Dailey and Martin
were in the groups about the table.
The trousseau of the really modern
girl has gone all feminine. Nightdresses
have completely ousted the pyjama-suit.
One honeymoon nightie in a recent lin-
gerie display was of snowy triple georg-
ette. Its flimsiness was weighted at the
hem by three narrow, hand-tucked frills,
and it had quite a train. Handwork and
tucks (many of the pin variety) and a
little real lace are good enough for the
rich beyond measure. One very pale-
pink and one very pale-blue boudoir wrap
had their floating sleeves and sweeping
trains edged with infinitesimal frlls of
gold lace.


WE OFFER;
WHAT
Most I People
Desire
Homely com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney.
fTi
M
WENTWORTH Hotel
BRIDGE PARK
SYDNEY
BUT361
jfUTMtf]
/
vnaiKi
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! Sg&SrS.SS**
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUK COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sidney, N.S.W.
Death.
SWAN. —On 28th day of February, suddenly
at brother’s residence, Warragul (Victoria),
ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL, late Bamboo
Creek, Marble Bar (Western Australia).
Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE OF ALBERT LEOPOLD WHITE.
CHARLES HENRY WHITE, last heard of
in Tamworth, New South Wales, or his next-
of-kin, or anyone knowing their present where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland,
New Zealand.
IF HENRY WESTON WESGATE will com-
municate with the undersigned it will be to
his advantage.
WESTON, WARD & LASCELLES,
Solicitors, 152 Manchester Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
It was hard work making money on
the second day at Flemington— e.g., “Miss
Lorna Doone’s” Sylvandale returned
divs. of 6s. for a win and ss. for a place
—but the weather was gorgeous, summer
having a last fling and the flower-beds
flamboyant, as they always are in March.
Women’s fashions were as they have
been all the summer, and men’s suits
were conventional. But things are hap-
pening to their hats ; the brown lid of a
few years ago, which for long was viewed
with grim disapproval, has become as
ordinary as bread-and-butter pudding. It’s
the green Akubra which has come, stayed
and conquered after only a very brief
interim of startled wonderment. The
shape, too, is different; it’s a square-
jawed, flat-topped article that our men
are wearing, and all the smartest lads
pop a little feather into the side of the
hatband.
Mrs. Ben Chaffey was in black, with a
relief of white chiffon. Laure Falkiner’s
Zulu-brown satin suit had diagonal cross-
wise stripes of white. Did and Pat de
Pledge of W.A., were there, Did sporting
her monocle. Mrs. Michael Nial was all
in black, with a tiny paper-bag hat; Gwen
Munro was also in sombre hue, and her
hat looked like flying away any moment
on its banking aeroplane wings. Mrs.
Eric Thonemann went in for a variety of
spots, black on white and white on black,
topped by a large black hat. Joan Bos-
tock’s marble-white crepe dress was made
in tunic fashion, with nest's of pleats in
the skirt. Mrs. Lewis Clifford’s navy
coat had a taffeta collar which at the
back metamorphosed itself into a large
taffeta bow.
The V.R.C. was lucky in its autumn
meetings ; on the last day also the
weather was perfect and the crowd, judg-
ing by the queueing up at tote windows,
was satisfactorily large. The prevailing
passion for black is not conducive to a
scene of gaiety, but hats can be as mad
as they like ; devil’s ears, elf’s wings,
pussy-cat' whiskers, a pinch here and a
point there —it seems there is no limit to
dizzy millinery inventions.
The hat designers rushed off to China
and brought back the idea of a Ming
hat. They borrowed an eyeshade from
some desk-bound clerk, got a bunch
of feathers (pheasants or imitation) from
a bird-fancier’s garden and snatched a
tassel off a Venetian courtier’s headpiece.
Then they tore everything apart and put
them together again, and so have in-
vented a new millinery psychology. Defi-
nitely there are no longer any repressions
or inhibitions upon feminine heads.
In spite of the warmth furs were popu-
lar. Mrs. Neil Crowley wore silver
foxes. Mrs. Harley Styles was all in
navy, with a flat wide Chinese beret. With
her tailored dress Mrs. Neville Fraser
wore a quilted jacket of navy taffeta and
carried a shooting-stick. A grey tailored
suit and a brown leather band for her
Alpine hat composed Mrs. Stewart Han-
cock’s sporting ensemble. Mrs. John
Osboldstone had lots of fun with her
veil ; its mesh had large square holes in
the pattern and her nose (a shapely nose)
would poke through one of the* holes.
Mrs. Ron Nettlefold chose a lightweight
coat, a floral frock and a quaint little hat
generated from the Dutch bonnet idea.
Mrs. Keith Bush wore black and a black
tassel dangling temptingly from the
crown of her Florentine hat. By a clus-
ter of gay flowers across her forehead
Mrs. Tom Ayres turned a plain black
cap into something very giddy and spring-
like.
Here is a Broothorn picture of one of
last week’s debs., Faith Power. Robert
Knox and his lady lent their lovely home,
Greenknowe, to Mr. and Mrs. Reginald
Power for the occasion of their daugh-
ter’s coming-out party. For the dance
Miss Power wore a gown of marble-
white satin and carried a bouquet of
frangipanni, a gift from her aunt, Mrs.
Norman Glover. She did not make her
debut all alone, but shared the impor-
tance of the occasion with her young
friends Judy Lillies and Jenny Walker.
Judy was clad in conventional white, but
Jenny chose a soft shade of sweet-pea-
pink for her frock and her flowers.
Country people, country cars and coun-
try ponies came to Melbourne last week
for the polo, held as usual at Moonee
Valley racecourse. The Valley has a
reputation for fine weather, which it lived
up to on every day. The gallery, with
an ear and an eye for polo news, watched
from cars, from the benches along the
edge of the race track or sitting on the
grass in picnic fashion. Hugh Bullivant,
Lieut.-Colonel Knox and Foster Rut-
ledge each umpired several matches, and
Humphrey Clegg was among the men
noticed tightly glued to field-glasses.
Among the horsewomen who acted as
linesmen were Claudia Palmer, Helen
Desailly, Helen Good (who sports initials
on the pocket of her shirt) and Heather
McKellar (whose canary-colored shirt
was a gay spot of color).
Dressing among the spectators was in-
formal, but among the ponies it was best
bibs and tuckers. Red chocolate-box
ribbon seems very popular for binding up
tails. The Hexham ponies particularly
were noticeable for their coiffure of that
type, whereas the Peninsulas went to the
other extreme with their loose tails flying
in the wind. In one chukka of the match
between Adelaide A and Caramut a
light chestnut had three giddy red bows
on his tail and a grey had his plait tied
with bright orange.
Among spectators at' the opening
matches of the Huntingfield and Strad-
broke Cups were Mrs. R. H. Nimmo,
who looked cool in dusty-pink linen, and
Mrs. Harold Riggall, in white. Phyllis
Bray was there, barracking for Adelaide ;
her father plays in the A team, a
fast and vigorous four, though the ages
of the players total 200 years. Frances
Winter-Irving wore a white halo hat with
her navy-and-white linen dress. Gwen
Stead was all in pillar-box red. Pat
Newbigin chose white rims for her sun-
glasses and red-and-white-peppermint
stripes for her dress, and Betty Abbott
grew a garden of forget-me-nots on her
white cotton frock. Mary Saenger was
there with a carload of girls and a
hamper to cope with their open-air
appetities. Sue Parker wore navy printed
silk, and Mrs. Roger Henderson had
scarlet fingernails as a dash of color for
her all-navy-and-white turnout, which in-
cluded white rims for her dark-blue sun-
glasses. The Trevor Clarke couple shel-
tered on and off under a big beach um-
brella, and Bob Skene was hailed on all
sides, having arrived back from England
only that morning. Mrs. Charlie Lane’s
hat was an aphorism in technique ; of
white felt shaped like a topee and
swathed with a puggaree of brown ribbon.
On the semi-final day D. M. Reid,
playing No. 1 for Adelaide B, had
in one chukka everything to harmonise.
His blue shirt, white topee and breeches
went with a nuggety little cream pony
wearing a blue bow on its tail and blue
brush-pads on its fetlocks. T. B. Guest’s
car was there, and its radio set, the first
to discover that the matches were being
broadcast, was very useful to people
parked near by as well as to Mr. Guest’s
passengers. Present among feminine
friends of the players were Mrs. C. C.
Moore in a floral silk frock, Mrs. A.
Urquhart, Marjorie Clarke in a grey
tailored suit, Judy Black in jubilee-blue
tweed, Joan Falkiner, with an orange-and-
black beret on her dark head, and Mrs.
Ken Moore in ciel-blue. In the finals
Caramut won both the Stradbroke and
the Huntingfield cups, and Hexham, the
other Western District team, carried off
the defeated teams’ handicap.
There was a retinue of attendants at the
marriage of Betty Parbury and Bernard
Brett. The bride in her Grecian satin
draperies was followed by small John
Happell, very important in his white satin
suit, by two little girls, Margaret Law-
rence and Mareeta Brett, wearing butter-
cup organdie frills to their toes, and by a
quartet of taller ’maids, Rosalind Par-
bury, Lesley Bailey, Theo Gibb and Pat
Peterson, in trained and caped gowns of
primrose crepe, quaint bonnets of
organdie and velvet' ribbons and with
clusters of blue hydrangeas lying over
their arms.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Cynthia
Letts, who has recently opened a school
of swordsmanship in Melbourne. For
several years Miss Letts has been teach-
ing fencing in schools and privately to
individuals and small classes (for the
smaller the class the more quickly the
pupil progresses). Her city venture should
be a great success, for people are gradu-
ally recognising the value of rapier-play.
In games of to-day a quick handshake or
a slap on the back are the only demon-
strations of goodwill between victor and
vanquished, but in fencing the courtesy
of salute is retained ; it is given not only
at the beginning and end of each bout,
but every time a combatant is touched by
the foil of his opponent. In a bout of
great public interest there are four judges
and a referee, each judge watching only
one side of each contestant. Miss Letts
considers that, when scientifically trained,
men and women fencers can face one
another as equals.
Egotistical as he is Bernard Shaw must
have felt a quiver in his cynical old heart
if he’d seen the bumper audience which
packed the King’s Theatre for the first
production in an English-speaking coun-
try of “The Millionairess.” Gregan
McMahon thought well and deeply
before casting the difficult role of
Epifania; Enid Hollins’s splendid per-
formance was a credit to his judgment.
But for silver foxes, “Epi” did not wear
extravagant clothes. The sheen of sky-
blue satin in one of the boxes belonged
to Mrs. Albion Walkley. Mrs. A. H.
Scott, in white, sat in the box opposite.
Dr. and Mrs. Gerald Weigall were in
the stalls, Mrs. Frank Andrew accom-
panied Alison Syme, and Mrs. George
Dickenson, in eggplant-red, brought
Lynette, in white with a gardenia over
her ear. Mrs. Guy Bakewell’s pink
ospreys were discernible in the circle. She
was escorted by a youthful brother. Mr.
and Mrs. J. J. Liston and General
Blarney were also in the throng.
When Stanley Argyle, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, W. Flintoft and the manager of
the picture theatre mounted the stage for
the opening of the new Village Theatre
in Toorak there was some missing of
cues, for a gramophone offstage went
berserk. “Pop Goes the Weasel” and
“Three Blind Mice” should have finished
before the overture, but something went
wrong with the machinery. Speeches
started in the middle, finished early or
stopped altogether owing to the false
entries of the raucous weasel and the
dirge about mice; animals with bad
manners but a strong sense of humor.
The Milk Month campaigners are aim-
ing high—they want to make Melbourne
drink one million pints of milk every day,
but they do not insist that their disciples
drink milk plain and undisguised. Mixed
with brandy, sugar and crushed ice, the
beverage calls itself thenceforward milk
punch ; then there’s a rich concoction
known as a chocolate cocktail, which in-
cludes a beaten-up raw egg, and there
are all kinds of milk shakes with coffee
and nutmeg flavorings. A few decades
ago suspicious mothers looked upon ice-
cream as poison for little Willie’s tummy ;
to-day it appears on every menu,
is recommended by physicians and
approved of by the Milk Month officials.
One day last week Melbourne did not
live up to its reputation of a well-
groomed city. Autumn leaves, news-
papers, orange peel and cigarette
packets swirled in the gutters, for
the street sweepers were making
holiday at Aspendale. This annual-
picnic idea is becoming a habit;
a couple of weeks ago all the shoe re-
pairers in the city shut up shop and went
off to drink billy tea at the beach.
Harold Clapp’s idea of appointing a
railways dietitian has proved such a suc-
cess that the present incumbent, Betty
Wilmot, is to have an assistant. The job
has been allotted to Elizabeth Ramsay,
who trained in her profession at St. Vin-
cent’s and the Alfred. To take up her
new appointment Miss Ramsay relin-
quishes her position of dietetics lecturer
to nurses at Geelong Hospital.
“Cap and Bells,” the Rayner girls’ new
show at Centenary Hall, is the outcome
of two months of rehearsing in a quiet
little Tasmanian village. At the end of
their season Joan and Betty are off to
N. S. Wales, and then with a break of
journey in M.L. they will sail for Cali-
fornia. They are experienced cara-
vanners, Joan as the driver (she likes to
get under a car with a spanner) and Betty
as the cook. They have transported their
show on wheels over the roads of Eng
land, Scotland, Wales, Sweden and part
of Australia, and enjoyed every minute
of the life of open-air troubadours.
One day Joan, stealing an afternoon
sleep, was suddenly wakened by a cold
clammy string of sausages falling on her
face. The lad behind the gift was a
ginger-headed urchin (son of the butcher),
whose instincts were generous but, being
childish, were prompted primarily by self-
interest —he so badly wanted to see over
the caravan. Betty as cook has found
that she must often make butter, for
her housewifely instincts won’t let her
waste the rich cream which is so often
presented at her “kitchen” door. In
Sweden at all hours of the day she and
her sister were accustomed to find a
scrubby bunch of wildflowers, held by a
small pink fist', being waved through
the window —and the one desire in life
of the owner of the fist was to see inside
the troubadours’ house on wheels.


m
- ... WJ-
—K
!
m
K¥A3£x->
m
m
im
m -m
mi
m
We’re safe in our Ford V-8
Because we have: Safety glass all round; all steel body;
super safety mechanical brakes; easier steering and gear changing.
SAFETY is not added to a car by the mere
claim of that quality. It must be built
into the design of the car. Every thoughtful
motorist realises the vital necessity for safety
under modern traffic conditions. Ford V-8
for 1936 meets that demand with a great
list of safety features: Safety Glass in all
windows as well as windscreen . . . Genuine
All-Steel closed bodies —as fine and safe a
body as it is possible to build . . . Super safety
mechanical brakes . . . Easier control of
steering and gear changing. In addition,
the mechanical accuracy of every part con-
tributes further to the safety of this
splendid car. The power and efficiency of
its famous V-8 engine gives unrivalled per-
formance; an 4 at the same time provides
manoeuvrability and control that is com-
pletely satisfying. Beautiful of appearance,
luxuriously modern in its equipment and
appointments, delightfully comfortable be-
cause of its Centre-Poise riding, Ford V-8
for 1936 is outstanding motor car value.
Your Ford dealer is now showing the
1936 models and will gladly demonstrate.
Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
FOR 193 G
A
BRITISH
EMPIRE
PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN
VICTORIA)
F6O. 9 4. V
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 510 of 1935.
BETWEEN JOYCE DOROTHY SMITH Peti-
And* ALBERT EDWARD SMITH Re-
spondent. , ,
TO ALBERT EDWARD SMITH formerly of
Moss Vale in the State of New South
Wslcs
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOYCE
DOROTHY SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
T AKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of May One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of you not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein has been forwarded to you
under cover of envelope addressed to your
mother Lillian D. Smith at her last known
DATED this Second day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FRANK W. LEE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 133 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction-
No. 1566 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELSIE PRUDENCE PEARL EDE
(formerly Adams) Petitioner
And ARTHUR PAUL EDE Respondent
TO ARTHUR PAUL EDE late of Murwil-
lumbah in the State of New South Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE PRC'
DENCE PEARL EDE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and »
applying for a dissolution of marriage on tne
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the prop*'
office of this Honorable Court on or betorc
the 19th day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-six and in the event of yo« r
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceea
and the suit be heard and determined youi
absence notwithstanding. . w
A copy of the petition filed herein may t*
had on application to the undersigned free oi
charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of February.
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six-
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce--
FREDK. McGUREN, Jnr., Solicitor forth
Petitioner, Union Chambers, 27 Prince Mm-
G By t ffis Agents, MESSRS. SPORA & PRI CE ’
Solicitors, 155 King Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Streamers in the Aero Club’s colors,
red and twojshades of blue, canopied tfle
Adelphi dining-room when retiring presi-
dent J. A. Dimmitt was farewelled at a
dinner dance. Gold lame gleamed on the
revers of Mrs. Dimmitt’s black cello-
phane striped satin as she and her hus-
band were greeted by incoming president
Val Abbott, whose other half swung
a capelet of cobwebby lace over her
black silk velvets. Major Brearley’s lady
was another who chose black. Dusty-
pink phantom crepe girded Mrs. Stan
Brearley, Molly Noble edged the cape
of her pink-striped matelasse with brown
monkey fur, and Mrs. Jimmy Woods’s
picturesque confection was composed of
layers of black net. Secretary Nell
Roberts topped flame matt crepe with a
pleated tulle cape.
A white floral design wandered over
Mrs. Cardell-Oliver’s black silk crepes
when the women’s division of the
National party put on a tea-party to
honor her election to the Leg. Assembly.
Vice-president Mrs. Snashall (her black
suit was relieved with white) stood in the
lounge of the Embassy, with social-secre-
tary Mrs. G. M. Barter’s blue-patterned
silks alongside.
A wide, pointed belt, heavily embroid-
ered with pearls, was clasped around Zoe
Weir’s ivory satins as she stepped down
the aisle of St. Andrew’s to keep her date
with Frank Venn. Limerick lace, arranged
Gretchen-wise at the back of her head,
cascaded over an underveil of tulle to
the eddy of her full-flared train, where
baby June Lynn added a foam of hail-
spot net topped with a poke bonnet'.
Ground-length scarves billowed from
Mrs. Reg Malloch’s and Jessica Venn’s
shoulder sprays of white organdie
chrysanthemums as they trailed their
Patou-pink georgettes in the bride’s wake,
and organdie flowers nodded on their
brows.
The circlet which welded Claire Adair
and Theo Gibbs at the Methodist
Church, Claremont, was made from the
wedding rings of the bride’s great-
grandmothers, who both arrived in the
State in 1829. One, Ann Farmer, came
with her husband in H.M.S. Sulphur, and
the other, Lydia Inkpen, travelled in the
Gilmore at the age of two. Their de-
scendant’s gown of creamy georgette was
draped to the centre front, ruched on
the train and decked with hand-made
flowers. Marjorie Gibbs and Nancy
Adair surmounted their primrose-and-
apricot georgettes with Eastern head-
dresses haloed with flowers.
News from Colombo of the marriage
of Jean, only daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Loton, to K. Suther-
land Ross, of Gamawella estate, Passara.
The bride wore a mustard-and-brown
suit touched with gold and adorned on
the bodice with amethyst and gold-brown
orchids. Her nigger-brown hat was
finished with a gold ornament.
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Atkinson and
daughters Una, Cathleen and Vera set
out for their world tour after a round
of valedictory functions. The staff of
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd., arrived
in force at Anzac for dancing, games,
competitions and music; Mr. and Mrs.
J. A. Dimmitt gave a dinner-party at the
Adelphi; Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Chappie
chose the same venue and form of enter-
tainment, and the three girls went to a
series of parties given by younger fry.
To welcome Prof. A. G. B. Fisher and
his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Alexander
entertained at their home in Claremont.
The 40 guests included the Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University, Prof. H. E.
Whitfield, and numbers of other learned
souls.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At Morphettville races a strong wind
kept the women, and men, too, chasing
their hats. Chairman H. Allan Morris
and his wife, who have just returned
from a holiday cruise to Maoriland,
entertained at afternoon-tea, at which
there was such a large attendance that
the guests overflowed into a smaller
room. Mrs. Morris’s blouse of black-
and-white silk had a red cornelian
buckle, and she carried a red leather
handbag. Mrs. S. J. Jacobs was in black
marocain, figured with white, and
sported a beige lace bow in her black
straw hat. Mrs. J. H. Morrish’s tailored
suit and large hat were all cream. Mrs.
W. A. Piper wore with a fawn cloche
jacket suit a hat of brown straw and a
brown-and-white figured chiffon scarf.
Mrs. A. W. Jolly was in a black-and-grey
chiffon frock, a small black velvet toque
and a cape of silver-fox fur.
Mrs. Guy Makin was hostess at a
bridge-party at her home, North Adel-
aide, to welcome back Mrs. T. G.
Wilson, Miss Peacock and Dorothy
Lendon, who have recently returned
from overseas, and to farewell Dorothy
Jessop, bound for N. S. Wales on a
holiday visit. The reception-rooms were
decorated with mixed flowers, and Mrs.
Makin was gowned in white ninon,
figured in black.
Marriages in the Barr Smith family
are always conducted upon the quietest
lines, so no one was surprised when T. E.
Barr Smith, jnr., last of the clan to seek
a wife, was married at St. John’s, Toorak
(Melbourne), to Nancy, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Leland Greene, of Avington,
Camperdown, Victoria, with only re-
lations present. The bride’s magnolia
satin was cut on long lines, with tight-
fitting sleeves to the wrist, her wide-
brimmed hat of parchment lace was re-
lieved by touches of brown, and in place
of a bouquet she had brown orchids
pinned on her handbag.
At St. George’s, Rabaul, New Guinea,
Gwendoline, second daughter of Mrs.
Bowen, of Fullarton, Adelaide, and the
late Mr. C. J. Bowen, was married to
Basil, second son of Mrs. E. Challis and
the late Mr. H. J. Challis, of Walton
Heath, England.
TASMANIA.
The racing at Elwick wasn’t very well
attended. Rain threatened (but didn’t
perform). A good many overseas and
mainland folk were in the throng, among
them Mrs. Harley Wentworth (India),
Mrs. F. E. Fay (Melb.), Mrs. R. McKay
(Melb.), Mrs, Whitham, Mrs. Shugg
(Melb.), Mrs. Prout-Webb (Melb.),
Mrs. McWhae (staying with the Ash-
bolt lady) and Commander Quick
(Melb.). The Alan Camerons came
down from the midlands. Mrs. K. Mc-
Dowell (Rangoon) was also on the lawn.
The Launceston Matrons’ Ball at the
Albert Hall was steered by 22 ladies, with
Mrs. C. Mackinnon and Mrs. C. K.
Stackhouse as joint secs. Eight debs,
faced the music—Betty Waterhouse, Nan
Mackinnon, Margaret Hawker, Denise
d’Antoine, Ardyn Smith, Betty Irvine,
Laird Archer, Lesley Weedon and Molly
Marsden. Frocking was pretty, that of
the youngsters’ especially, many of them
sporting frilly and picturesque confec-
tions in more or less old-world style.
“Parent” hosts and hostesses ran a
well-engineered dance at the Masonic
Hall as a “coming-out” function for their
own daughters and other debs. The little
hall was prettily decorated with masses
of autumn blooms. The promoters were
the Basil Crisps, the Max Butchers, the
John Lords, the C. Rexes and the Harvie
Thompsons. The debs., looking fresh and
dainty in their immaculate white frocks,
were Helen Crisp, Helen Lord, Mary
Butcher, Pat Rex, Peggy Bailey and Joan
Cane.
Elizabeth Joan, eldest daughter of the
late F. and Mrs. Chesterman, Sandy Bay,
was married to H. L. Ibbott at St.
George’s, the bride wearing a frock of
soft blue lace and a big picture hat with
a touch of gold in it. Barbara Chester-
man and Marjorie Nichols followed in
pink silk crepe with pale-blue picture hat.
The George Arthurs gave a party at
their country house, Entally, Hadspen.
with bathing in the river as one of the
attractions. Tea was served on the ter-
race, and a treasure hunt took seekers
into every corner of the house and
grounds. Many guests stayed on for
an informal supper afterwards. Mrs.
Arthur’s sister, Mrs. Badgery, from N. S.
Wales, helped in the receiving and enter-
taining.
• Dr. and Mrs. Pearson farewelled Mrs.
C. E. Davies, who, with daughter Cicely
and son Charles, leaves for England in
the Orion, at a late-afternoon party at
their own home. Mrs. Pearson’s grey
lace frock had blue flowers woven into
the design.
Sylvia, younger daughter of the Robert
Headlams, and H. I. Plaister, of Sandy
Bay, are on the “engagements” list.


SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: The other day a dazed resi-
dent of Brisbane was handed a large piece
of blue paper charging him “that he being
the rider of a velocipede, between sun-
down and sunrise, failed to have a lighted
lamp throwing a bright light in front of
such velocipede attached to some con-
spicuous part thereof.” Reaching for his
encyclopaedia, he discovered that' in cur-
rent jargon a velocipede is not a bicycle
but a scooter pushed along with the feet
and invented by a German in 1916. But
this legal quibble did not save him.
Bureaucrats in a State where the dingo
has been declared a marsupial by Act
of Parliament and lighting systems are
“acquired” under the Sugar Acquisition
Act leave nothing to chance or the dic-
tionary. The Traffic Act regulations make
it clear that a “bicycle, motor-cycle, tri-
cycle or other vehicle of similar descrip-
tion” is a velocipede in Queensland. And
the defendant left with that information
but without 6s. costs.
*<'•.* * *
“Zedo”: There is no doubt that W. S.
Gilbert was before his age. What an
opera or a “Bab Ballad” he could have
written about a case brought by the
Golden Jest Government against a
teacup-reader! The defendant’s wife ran
a restaurant at which a police agent
bought 2s. worth of
good tucker. While he
was consuming this
provender, the husband
came uninvited to his
table, looked at his
dregs and told him the
story of the dark, mys-
terious stranger and the
sea voyage. The Force,
discovering that the
reader got 3d. per head
from his wife for his
services, charged him
under the Vagrant,
Gaming and Other
Offences Act. A pound
or three days.
* * *
“Jano”: lam one of
those who do not re-
gret the destruction of
Darwin’s Primus Alley,
though I think the Ad-
ministration might save
the building for Guy
Fawkes Day and send
it and most of the rest
ot the town up in one grand flare.
The crowded tin shanties of the Chinese,
the stark, drab houses, largely unsuited
to a tropical climate, the wandering
animal, the untidy gutters all constitute
one of Australia’s worst advertisements
now that Darwin has become the north-
ern gate for air services. I cannot re-
member any town in British territory
along the air route which has so miser-
able an appearance. And I do not know
any allegedly white town anywhere in
which so many Oriental dwellings nestle
cheek by jowl with those of Europeans.
After the carefully planned British-
Malay and Dutch cities, Darwin is a
horrid anti-climax to the London-Aus-
tralia flight.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Till last week Qantas had
carried 107,7921 b. of mail on the Singa-
pore run—4,ooo,ooo letters, on which the
revenue should be a minimum of
£300,000 at Is. 6d. per letter. The com-
parison with passenger fares is illuminat-
ing. The service can afford to carry a
12-stone man to London from Brisbane
ior £244, or about £1 9s. per pound
weight. He has to be fed, accommo-
dated and waited on, given space to
move about in and a lot of other facili-
ties. A letter merely lies in a bag, re-
quires no feeding, is never sick and does
not even need a chair to sit in. Yet the
average rate on letters works out at
about £3 per pound.
* * * *
“Mrs. Char”: I don’t care what no-
body says about ladies bein’ able to live
all right in the tropics cos they ain’t
and I know what I’m talkin’ about after
the bit I read in the paper just now
about a lady livin’ at Darwin. Hangin’
out the wash she was of a fine afternoon
Mien along come a bolt of lightnin’ and
next minute the poor lady finds the wire
clothes-line melted and all the pegs gone
and all her lovely wash just a lot of
burnt rags on the dirty ground and her
best mosquito-net finished altogether and
only a mark where it had been. And
the lady’s name was Mrs. Ah Fatt as can
be easy proved and respectable neigh-
bors seen the lightnin’ bounce off the
perlice paddock right on to the poor
lady’s clothes-line. Which the perlice
ought to pay the poor lady for havin’
such a elastic paddock. Whatever you
say about the tropics bein’ healthy you
don’t get me there when things like that
happens to your wash of a fine day.
* * * *
“R.K.D.”: That “music hath charms
to soothe the savage [or half-savage]
breast” may be proved any day by a
visit to a store in Rabaul’s Chinatown.
I entered it to buy a portable
gramophone. Several natives gathered
round the machine were listening
spellbound to John McCormack’s in-
terpretation of “Ave Maria.” One of
them offered a pound more than I did
and clinched the deal. Being curious, I
“These machines are no good to me, Mrs. Brindle. I prefer the personal
touch.”
asked this native how long he had been
away from his village, and he replied
“Two years.” He was from Ambunti, on
the upper reaches of the Sepik. The
kong kong storekeeper told me that he
had sold five gramophones and 200
records to natives during the preceding
six months.
* * H= *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The pretty
little colored settlement at Myora, on
Stradbroke Island (Moreton Bay, Q.),
will never be the same without dear old,
courteous, dignified Sergeant Sam Rol-
lands. Nicknamed by visitors “Uncle
Tom,” for his kindly black face sur-
mounted by a shock of snowy hair, he
exercised over every other colored in-
mate an influence for law and order
which was of the utmost value to the
Dunwich administration. It naturally is
a social asset to claim relationship with
prominent people, and Sam’s self-alleged
relations extend from the Tweed to Far
North, with a color-range that would
give Abbe Mendel a headache to work
out. Sam was originally a Malaita man,
recruited in the Young Dick, after-
wards cut out at Malaita by “bad men.”
The Government Agent and carpenter
were killed. Sam’s age was a mystery
even to the officials, but he was fully 85.
* * He *
“The ’Dangie”: The proposal to estab-
lish black police in the N.T. is a good
one. Binghi is a great success at the
job, as the old Queensland forces showed,
but he will need to be differently organ-
ised for modern patrol work from
Urquhart’s and Hill’s boys. In the old
days, there were the wild devils of the
Palmer; now there is little danger in
tribal areas to the man who knows his
way about. Boys will have to be re-
cruited from the tribes among which
they will have to work, and kept to those
areas. And the arma-
ment question will have
to be gone into very
carefully. I never
knew a black boy with
a carbine in his hand
who did not .have
trigger itch.
“Bull-ant Bill”:. One requires to be a
man of no mean courage and of un-
usual heat-resistant qualities to belong
to the fire brigade at Quilpie in Queens-
land’s far south-west. Turned out re-
cently at midnight to a blaze in a local
store, the gallant band soon had the
hoses going, but with the serious draw-
back that the water, drawn from the
local bore, was just beldw boiling point,
so that it was impossible to operate hose
or nozzle barehanded. Added to this
highly-inconvenient departure from ordi-
nary brigade technique, the firefighters
came under heavy fire of another kind,
from exploding boxes of cartridges in the
burning building. Nobody was burned
or shot, but two were badly scalded.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Miss Margaret Brown, M.A., principal
of the Glennie Memorial School, who
will represent the Queensland Uni. at
the Conference of Women Graduates at
Cracow, Poland, was tea’d by members
of the Glennie Old Girls’ Association at
Rowe’s Cafe. Mrs. W. M. Robertson
presided.
Mrs. P. J. Symes, back in Brisbane
after 12 months in England, has been
revelling in things dramatic. She
attended lectures and classes at the
Dramatic School during the Mal-
vern Festival, went to a meeting of the
Drama League in London, met G. 8.5.,
and told him that Brisbane Repertory
had staged some of his plays. It in-
stantly spurred him into asking (1) who
got the royalties, and (2) mentioning that
he was surprised that Brisbane should
stage any kind of plays.
Screen rather than stage attracted
Flora Cran, just back from Hollywood,
where she stayed with Genevieve Tobin.
At the Methodist' Conference the dele-
gates were cheered to hear the details of
Mr. Marchant’s latest princely gift to the
church. He gave Montrose, where the
Crippled Children’s Home is established,
and now has handed over 25 acres of
land at Chermside, and provided for not
less than £lO,OOO to build a home for the
aged. All that the Methodist Mission
will have to do is to raise £l5OO for
furnishing.
Brisbane Amateur Theatres will open
its career at the Town and Country Club
on April 8 with “An
Evening with A. A.
Mi 1 n e.” Following
month it will stage
modern plays, and
in June will put on
several Australian
one-acters.
Unless each man
buys his own kilt,
sporran, skean - dhu,
and Glengarry, there
won’t be a Highland
regiment for Queens-
land. A. Parkhill has
told knight Donald
Cameron that his de-
partment cannot foot'
the bill for these
trimmings, and really
no one sees why it
should. The knight
hopes that a fund will
be started to equip a
Queensland Highland
regiment; and then
we’ll be having loyal
Irish and Welsh citi-
zens howling for regiments equipped with
leeks and harps and things, to keep the
balance equal.
Tennis in the morning and cricket in
the afternoon, with a lunch party in
between, was the programme when Prin-
cipal Carson Cooling and Mrs. Cooling
entertained a number of guests at the
Brisbane Boys’ Grammar School to cele-
brate the 68th foundation day. Man ;
Old Boys turned up to mingle with the
present generation of scholars.
The Victorian Association held its
first' bridge party this year in the kiosk
at the Botanical Gardens, and Mrs. S.
Dyke, social convener, announced that
there would be, in future, one each
month. Mrs. H. T. Halliday and Mrs.
S. H. Barratt received the guests, num-
bering about 50; and there were mari-
golds and zinnias on the teatables.
Orena Morrison, an Aberdeen girl,
came out on the Hobson’s Bay, and same
afternoon wedded Dr. David Horn, Jnr.
Bridegroom and his parents came from
Toowoomba to meet the lassie, and then
drove to the Presbyterian Church at
Thompson Estate, where the knot was
tied. J. T. Allardyce gave away the
bride, and Evelyn Horn was bridesmaid.
Dr. lan Horn was best man. It was 14
months since the young couple parted in
Aberdeen, where the bride was a nurse
and her husband a University student.
Ernie and Nell Moss, who have been
abroad, will be back here at the end
of the week. Brother and sister ate
their Christmas dinner in Paris, but went
over to London for the New Year cele-
brations, as they wanted to mingle with
the crowd in Piccadilly. A wonderfully
good-tempered crowd, the Australians
say, very noisy and cheerful, but not at
all rough. Then they did a round of
London’s famous “below the street”
cafes —Dirty Dick’s, Smoky Joe’s, the
Bunch of Grapes and half a dozen others.


(JA°l
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
RADIO NEWS
A COMPACT ROTARY BEAM AERIAL.
BY
VON B. KNOCK.
A LTHOUGH the details of this novel directional aerial were
* developed in connection with ultra-short waves in the
experimental five-metre band, it is obvious that the idea can be
extended to ordinary short-wave reception and transmission.
The main objection to most directional systems is the amount of
space required and the unwieldy nature where rotation is
desired. This development in “beam” design removes these
objections.
During 1935 a considerable amount
of work was done in common with ex-
perimenters overseas by Australians in-
terested in ultra-short waves. The most
useful band in these regions allocated to
experimenters is the five-metre band, i.e.,
from 56 to 60 megacycles. By the use
of reflector and director systems arranged
in various ways the concentration in a
desired direction of the signal radiated
from the usual half-wave aerial can be
greatly intensified. All of the arrange-
ments tried may be considered success-
ful, but the multi-element beams, where
practicable, showed undoubted advan-
tages. Many experimenters were handi-
capped in facilities for testing the bene-
fits of directional transmission in more
The complete rotary beam arrangement.
than one or two directions owing to lack
of ground or roof space to swing a com-
prehensive rotary array. Even a twin
half-wave vertical array, with reflectors,
becomes vulnerable when exposed to
high winds at anything but a modest
elevation. The trouble is to obtain effi-
ciency in the aerial system and yet keep
dimensions small and the structure rigid.
Evidently the problem had been given
attention overseas, for at the end of the
year one of radio’s pioneers in short-
wave matters revealed a new idea. John
Reinartz (WIQP), through the pages of
“All-Wave Radio” (U.S.A.), introduced
the simple beam system described here.
The idea is one with great possibilities.
Reinartz claims a gain of eight for this
beam aerial, so that a 40-watt trans-
mitter which would normally deliver
around 20 watts to the aerial could be
considered to have 160 watts in the
aerial for the particular direction in
which it is pointed. For five metres
it is only 33in. in diameter, and for 2\
metres only 17in. If the idea is carried
in the other direction, a 10-metre beam
on this Reinartz principle is only 6ft. in
diameter, and for 20 metres 12ft., which
is at once attractive and interesting.
For five metres the aerial is light, and
can be fitted to the top of a long pole
with little trouble. As with more com-
prehensive systems, this Reinartz aerial
concentrates a large portion of the
transmitted wave in a desired direction.
The same holds good for reception.
Stations are received with much greater
signal strength, and interference from
other stations at the sides or behind the
aerial is materially reduced.
Materials Required.
To design the aerial for optimum per-
formance in the middle of the band, for
tuning up and down without serious
losses, the dimensions call for the fol-
lowing material:
Two Bft. lengths of fin. copper tubing.
One wooden pole (as high as desired).
One cross arm, approximately 21ft. long.
Eight 6in. wooden dowels for spacers between
tubes (boiled in paraffin wax).
Soft-drawn copper tubing is recom-
mended, because it is easy to manipu-
late and will retain the position to which
it is set. The form of the aerial is shown
in Figs. 1 and 2, and it will be seen
that the Bft. lengths have been bent
into the form of a circle. This circle
has an open mouth of 4in.
Bending the Tubing.
The easiest way to bend the tubing is
to describe a circle, having a 33in.
diameter, on the floor or wall. Nails are
then placed around this circle, about 4in.
apart, and the tubing is bent round the
circle of nails. The two tubes, when
bent, are joined to the wooden dowels
by any convenient method, and the ar-
rangement is fitted to the mast by a
bolted cross-arm, as illustrated.
Transmission Lines.
Almost any form of transmission line
can be used between this aerial and the
transmitter. If a 440-ohm line, such as
is readily made by the use of transposi-
tion blocks (wires not transposed in this
instance) and stranded wire, the con-
nections are as at the left of Fig. 2. If
a twisted pair low-impedance line is used
(the most convenient and equally effec-
tive) the connections are as at the right
in Fig. 2. Connection is made to the tubes
by clips, which should be put on the
tubes before assembly. The simplest
How the transmission lines are connected.
(Alternative lines are shown.)
form of a rotary beam aerial may be
obtained by drilling a hole in the bottom
of the mast, and placing the mast itself
over a metal pivot consisting of a steel
disc and bearing ball.
Non-twisting Feeders.
Where the higher impedance spaced
line is used the difficulty of the line
twisting is overcome by the arrangement
in Fig. 3. Mercury in grooves in a
paraffined wooden disc, with metal
fingers, forms the basis for a slip-ring
method of contact. It is seen that the
aerial can be rotated at will without
feeder trouble. This device is unneces-
sary with the twisted-pair line, but a
stop should be provided, which will per-
mit 350 deg. rotation but will prevent the
transmission line being twisted more than
a single turn, as shown in Fig. 4. To
control the aerial from the operating-
room, a suggestion is shown in Fig. 1.
Two bicycle wheels, pulleys and line
comprise a useful arrangement. If a
map is mounted on the wall,-behind the
Slip-ring method of feeding high
impedance line.
control wheel, a pointer can be fitted to
show the actual direction of transmis-
sion or reception.
D. B. K.
City Short-wave Diallings.
The German South Asia programme
for March gives an enlarged time
schedule, including the transmissions of
the experimental stations DJP (25.31 m.),
DJR (19.56 m.), DJL (19.85 m.) and DJO
(25.43 m.) and an additional transmission
of DJA. No fewer than five stations (DJA,
DJP, DJQ, DJN and DJR) commence at
3.30 p.m. (Sydney time). DJA and DJP
continue till 6.50 p.m., DJQ and DJN till
6 p.m. and DJR till 6.30 p.m. At 6.50
p.m. DJB and DJN combine in a trans-
mission that lasts till 11 p.m. DJL is
on from 7 p.m. till 9 p.m., and DJO from
8 p.m. till 10 p.m. At 11.5 p.m. DJA
and DJN commence a joint transmission
that lasts till 2 a.m. The East Asia pro-
gramme, which to some extent overlaps
the South Asia, includes only one experi-
mental station —DJP. DJA and DJQ give
news in English from 4 p.m. to 4.15 p.m.,
DJB and DJN from 7.30 p.m. to 7.45
p.m., and again from 10 p.m. to 10.15
p.m., and DJA from 12 midnight to 12.15
a.m. The technical letter-box will be
given at 9.55 p.m. on March 15, the
letter-box for Australia at 6.50 p.m. on
March 17, and the letter-box for Maori-
land at 6.50 p.m. on March 24. Of
special interest to Australian listeners is
an item (DJB and DJN) scheduled for
8 p.m. to 8.45 p.m. on March 24, and
entitled “Wings over Australia, a Radio
Play about the German Non-stop Flight
from Germany to Australia (in English).”
Music-lovers will be interested to note
from the South Asia programme of the
same stations the following items:
March 14 (7.45 to 8 p.m.), romanzas for
violin and piano, by Beethoven. March
17 (7.45 to 8.45 p.m.), symphony concert,
including the overture “Genoveva,” by
Schumann; concerto for ’cello in G major,
by Hans Pfitzner; variations and fugues
on a theme of Mozart’s, by Max Reger.
March 21 (7 to 7.15 p.m.), trio in E flat
major, for clarionet, viola and piano, by
Mozart. March 26 (7.45 to 8.30 p.m.),
Schubert’s “Swan Song,” opus 29, in A
minor, for string quartet. March 27 (7 to
7.30 p.m.), “Davidsbundlertanze,” by
Schumann. March 30 (7.45 to 8.30 p.m.),
“Die schone Schusterin” (the Pretty Shoe-
maker Lass), a musical play by Beethoven.
Radio Coloniale’s new transmission on
24.5 m. has not come up to early expec-
tations. Making due allowance for the
effects of signal interference, to which it
is subject, it is definitely weaker than the
same station’s transmissions on 25.23 m.,
25.6 m. and 19.68 m. When it commences
is not certain ; it has been heard faintly
at 4.20 p.m., but rarely does it become
clearly readable until an hour later. As
the transmission closes at 6 p.m., the
listener is not afforded much scope for
observation. Apparently other transmis-
sions are now being carried on the same
wave-length, for on February 25 one was
heard at 9.40 p.m. The best that can be
said of these 24.5 m. transmissions is that,
under favorable conditions, they have a
clear-cut quality which enables them to
be followed. Radio Coloniale’s other
transmissions, as heard in the writer’s
location, are nearly always characterised
by a certain amount of “spread,” the
blurring of the signals being due no
doubt to echo —a vice of the high-
powered station, unless steps are taken to
counteract it. It was this reverberant
quality that spoilt Radio Coloniale’s re-
cital of Mendelssohn’s delicate “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” music and of
“Carmen.” Subsequently, however, the
station gave a remarkable broadcast—a
popular demonstration of some sort, real
or dramatised—which came through in
tremendous strength. No detail of the
murmurs and cries of the crowd was miss-
ing ; yet when the announcer came to
the microphone his words were distorted
beyond recognition. Now and then
Radio Coloniale leaves nothing to be
desired, combining exquisite clearness
with tonal quality and strength. One
such occasion was when it presented a
brilliant performance of “La Tosca.”
That reception varies considerably
according to the listener’s location is
apparent, for instance, from a compari-
son of “Nightowl’s” notes and my own.
“Nightowl” states (B. 26/2/’36) that
“both VK2ME and VK3LR have been in-
audible at night, but good in daylight
hours.” With the writer, VK2ME is
easily the strongest station on the dial.
VK3ME is also very strong, while
VK3LR is not far behind. All these
stations are better at night than in the
daytime. The two Melbourne stations
are subject to fading, but rarely if ever
are they inaudible.
There are indications that the 16m. and
19m. bands have passed their “peak”
period. W3XAL, which a few weeks ago
came through very strongly every morn-
ing, is no longer heard at all; in fact,
the only station logged lately on the 16m.
band has been GSG, and tuning-in has
been increasingly difficult. Similar trouble
has been experienced, especially during
sullen weather conditions, with stations
on the 19m. band ; still, by way of corn-
Arrangement for twisted-pair line.
pensation, there have been evenings when
they have given excellent response. GSF
gives interesting talks by Sir Walter
Davies, Master of the King’s Music, which
apparently are to be a regular feature at
10.30 p.m. each Monday. Interesting, too,
was its “Empire Mailbag,” which brought
forth a remarkable tribute to the
barrel-organ: “I think it' can com-
pare in sweetness and in tone with any
musical instrument that has been
produced.” Perhaps some lover of the
bagpipes or the saxophone will take
up the challenge. At any rate, GSF
deserves what it' got for having put over a
talk which suggested that the barrel-
organ possessed unappreciated emotional
qualities which an inspired Paderewski
of the pavement might bring forth. The
speaker (a manufacturer of barrel-organs'
rather painfully illustrated the technique
of the art, which requires staggering
diversions of sound at critical moments
to conceal what might be termed an
organic defect of the instrument—the
absence of accidentals.
One noteworthy midnight 2RO gave
(in English) the full text of Marsha!
Badoglio’s communiques covering the
operations now known as the Battle of


GREATER ECONOMY IN OPERATION
WITH
TYPE 1C4
TYPE 1D4
VALVES
Radiol ron
1C4....A new high gain non-micro- 1D4 A power output pentode of
phonic super-control radio frequency overall higher efficiency than any
pentode. equivalent.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Va’ve Company Limited
Enderta, and next morning one could
hear the victory being celebrated in the
streets of Rome.
In view of the recently-published news
of important wireless developments at
Shanghai, it is interesting to note that on
February 19 a Shanghai station XGR
(on nearly 26m.) was heard calling
London.
Another station which the curious may
look for is VPB Colombo, on approxi-
mately 48.6 m., which broadcasts rather
faintly after 11 each night, but which is
apt to be heterodyned on my receiver
by double spots of the local 40-41 m.
amateurs.
P. R. W.
Indian Short-wave Listening Post.
BERS2BB is the allotted number of
British Empire receiving station No.
288, operated by Sergeant Terry Adams,
of Bombay City Police, Bombay, India.
Sergeant Adams is a keen observer on
the amateur 20-metre band, and uses an
R.C.A. type 128 all-wave superhet. Send-
ing along a report of reception of 20-
metre telephony from VK2NO, he says:
“It is a coincidence that I should hear
you, as I get The Bulletin from a pal
of mine, who, in turn, gets it from an
Aussie pal of his. I saw your page there,
learned that you operate VK2NO, and
wondered if I should hear you. A week
later, I logged you in contact with
CO6OM Cuba, W3APO Pennsylvania,
U.S.A., and K4SA Porto Rico.”
Amateur Chatter.
’Phone on 40 metres has for so long
been a bone of contention in Australia
that the subject is better avoided. Those
who had fears that the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment might use the axe and order “no
’phone on 40” can take heart from the
latest news from Cuba. The Cuban Gov-
ernment has opened up 40 metres for
amateur ’phone. From January of this
year this band may be used by the C.O.
and C.M. gang for “Hellos” as well as
“C.Qs.” Perhaps now some of our
“back-fence” 40-metre ’phones will realise
what local QRM entails when they try
working Cubans through the din! Or
aren’t they interested in DX?
Sad news from U.S.A. is the passing of
the G.O.M. of the A.R.R.L., Fliram
Percy Maxim. With the deaths of Col.
Foster and Mr. Maxim, amateur radio is
indeed poorer.
At the W.I.A. general meeting in Syd-
ney on February 20, an interesting lec-
ture was delivered by W. Stewart, of
Philips, on valve developments. Stress
was laid on the definite advantages of
valves such as the Philips AK2 octode as
superhet frequency changers. Mr.
Stewart also exhibited the remarkable
Philips 335 all-wave superhet receiver,
not yet available in Australia. The range
of this receiver is 12 to 2000 metres, and
the sensitivity even at 15 metres is amaz-
ing. It is understood that this receiver
may be marketed in this country, but it
will be unavoidably expensive. One must
pay for high quality, and the 335 is a
good example of the best in radio.
Seventy-six contacts are used in the
wave-change switch!
DX ’phone is plentiful on 20 metres,
but, in common with other more seriously
minded experimenters, the writer is
gradually getting ready for renewed ac-
tivity on five metres.
A surprise in the P.M.G. list of license
cancellations was that of VK2BP, of
Hazelbrook-Sydney five-metre fame.
VK2NO.
The New “Radio.”
in December, 1935, it was announced
suddenly that the very popular West
Coast, U.S.A., “ham” magazine “Radio”
and the exclusive and high quality “R 9”
magazine would
henceforth be merged
as one. Both these
magazines have been
reaching The Bulle-
tin office for a few
years by monthly
mail, and to say that
both have been indis-
pensable is putting it
mildly. With new
ideas, presented in a
diffe r e n t manner,
these magazines
have played no
little part in the in-
fusion of progressive
ideas in the design of
many Australian and
M.L. amateur sta-
tions. The high-efficiency, low-C.R.F.
amplifiers of Perrine and the thousand
and one transmitter and receiver appli-
cations of Frank Jones have been read,
learned and inwardly digested by
amateurs everywhere, with the net result
. that there are better transmitters on the
air, receivers that make the most of
things, and ultra-short wave apparatus
that does just what the text of the article
says. “Radio” in its combined form is
piloted ably by Killian Lansingh, W6QX.
Lansingh has lived with amateur radio
from its inception, and knows just what
the modern amateur wants and likes.
“Radio” contains much material infor-
mation not to be found elsewhere, or
only touched upon at the fringe. The
February issue is outstanding; 106
pages are crammed with informa-
tion and articles under an impressive
contents list, and profusely illustrated.
They include “Modulating the All-
Band Transmitter,” by Ralph O. Gordon
(W6CLH) ; “Modulation Movies,” by
John Reinartz; “A Resonant Strip
Oscillator” (u.-s. w.), by WSVU ; “Grid
Bias Detection,” by W9FTO ; “Building
Fixed Air Condensers,” by Bob Kruse
“A High-fidelity U-H-F Transmitter,”
by J. W. Smith ; “The New Eimac 300 T
in Experimental Circuits,” by Frank
Jones ; “Hams Across the Sea” ; “An All-
band Transmitter,” by Frank Jones; “A
Multi-band Antenna for High Frequen-
cies,” by Collins and Craft; “An Ultra-
high Frequency Superheterodyne,” by
W2ATQ; “Instantaneous 75-160 Metre
Excitation,” by W6BCX; “28 and 56
m.c. Activity,” “The Class-C Amplifier,”
by J. N. A. Hawkins; “The 5-metre
QRM Dodger,” by W6JMI; “An Un-
usual Mobile Antenna Mounting,” by H.
Selvidge; “Notes on the Care of Trans-
mitting Tubes,” by Hawkins; “Getting
the Most from the Pi-type Antenna
Coupler,” by R. B. Parmenter, W9LPM ;
and “Improving the Class-B Amplifier,”
by D. E. Replogle.
Altogether a fine list of material for
a single month’s issue. “Radio” sub-
scriptions can be booked at The Bulle-
tin Office, 252 George-street, Sydney;
20s. per year.
What’s What in Radio.
At a meeting of the Council of Aus-
tralian Aerial Medical Services (Vic.
section) in Melbourne on 27/2/’36, it
was reported that the erection of a wire-
less station at Wyndham (WA.) will be
commenced during March. Alfred
Traeger, of Adelaide, contracting radio
engineer, advises that the equipment will
leave Fremantle towards the end of May.
With the establishment of the station in
June, and the distribution of transceivers
at strategic points throughout the 400-
mile radius to be served by the “flying
doctor” (Dr. R. J. Cato) and the aerial
ambulance (Dunbar Hooper), the final
stage in the establishment of the Wynd-
ham base, under the control of Vic.
section A.A.M.S., will have been com-
pleted. The services already rendered by
the Wyndham base in cases of accidents
to the station manager at Birrindudu and
an employee at Gordon Downs station,
and of sickness at Drysdale River and
Forrest River, have proved the benefit
of the “flying doctor” and the quick
and comfortable means of transport in
the aerial ambulance. Wyndham radio
control station will be a valuable asset.
* * * *
The existing South African broadcast-
ing network, consisting of stations and
studios at Cape Town, Johannesburg,
Durban, Pretoria, Bloemfontein, Pieter-
maritzburg and Grahamstown, is to be
taken over by a public trust, and will be
organised on the lines of the British
Broadcasting Corporation.
* * * *
The Swedish Broadcasting Corporation
is now featuring every week a special
employment programme in which not
only are the listeners given a list of jobs
available in the different districts, but
may also hear practical advice respecting
the various crafts. The transmission
heard in neighboring countries has also
been the means of finding work for the
Swedish unemployed.
•** * *
At the last military manoeuvres the
i-\ - u wr • j x
Danish War Ofhce earned out tests with
the broadcast of army bands through
loudspeakers installed on motor lorries.
The novel exneriment nroved sntisfnc
T ne n °X ei p ex P eri t Tienl proven satistac-
tory, and further tests are to be made,
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
(1) What are the chances of success of the
Little Twin receiver ( B. 29/1/’36) here
(.Mackay, N.Q.) ? (2) Length and height of
aerial required ? (3) Name of suitable firm
which would assemble ? (4) Would parts stand
up under damp conditions resulting from
tropical rain ? —6lO.
(1) Excellent. (2) As high and as well in-
sulated, as possible, about 80ft. total length.
(3) Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place, Sydney.
Write D. G. Mclntyre, manager. (4) Not if a
nondescript audio transformer is used. The
resistance-coupled model, with good resistors
and mica condensers, would be free from such
trouble.
* * * *
Ant contemplating building a short-wave re-
ceiver. The Improved Wide-World Two ( B.
21/8/’35) interests me. What addition would
you suggest to enable working a loudspeaker
on short waves ?
An extra audio stage using a 42 pentode
would be suitable, and this can be transformer-
coupled for high gain. Decoupling should be
used in the first audio stage, and a volume-
control potentiometer placed in the grid cir-
cuit of the 42. A suitable receiver for loud-
speaker work, on the lines of the Wide-World
Two is the Martin A.C. Three (B. 27/3/’35).
* * * *
What is the rule for wattage rating of a
resistor to be used in a given circuit? —611.
This is determined by the resistance in ohms
multiplied by the current squared in amperes.
Many valves now draw .3 ampere. The square
of this is .09, which may be considered as .1.
Therefore a handy rule for determining the
wattage rating of drawing .3 ampere is to
divide the resistance by 10. The error thus
introduced is in the direction of safety, since
the result calls for a slightly larger resistance
than the wattage dissipated in it. As an
illustration of the use of this rule, suppose
that the resistance in a .3-ampere circuit is
350 ohms. The rating of the resistor to be
used is therefore 35 watts or more. The rule
holds strictly true only when the current is
.316 ampere.
* * * *
Being interested in the Junior Universal
Public-address Amplifier (B. 26/2/’36), I would
like to build a similar, outfit, but with slightly
greater power output. Storage batteries are no
problem, several high-amperage six-volt bat-
teries being available. (1) Could two 6A6
valves be used in the output ? (2) Can you
give a diagram ? —612.
(1) Two 6A6 valves could be used very
nicely in Class B, in push-pull parallel. In
this case the two sections of each 6A6 are
connected to make one triode. (2) The circuit
diagram illustrated (from “Radio World,”
U.S.A.) shows a comprehensive yet simple
arrangement. A 79 valve is used at the input,
and two 76’s in push-pull drive the 6A6 output
valves. Note that connections are shown for
p a X n ' v< h!! sp ® akers ;. This point
can omitted and permagnetics employed.
Mixing is provided for microphone and pickup,
and a six-volt turntable motor is also driven
fronath 9 stooge battery. This amplifier system
t deliver 20 watts of audio power. The
79 valve at the input serves as a voltage-ampli-
tier and phase inverter.


USEFUL DATA ON BUICK 8/40.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 14 4-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 4-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 23ft. 9in.
Maximum speed, m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 22.47 m.p.g.
-SILVER
EDGE n
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS * products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne , Vic.
o
wheft#- • •
ACCURACY tfVITAI
Accuracy in tyre pressures is vital/ It is a safe-
guard against excessive and uneven tyre wear,
and provides comfort and protection for you on the road. But only
an ACCURATE tyre gauge can assure you accurate pressures, uneap
gauges save you a shilling or two, but may lose you pounds m
tyre wear alone.
Put your trust in a KISMET for unvarying truth at every reading—
A (jauqe is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleadintj
KISMET SSBoe
In lib. units on wide, flat surfaces. Handsomely
finished in plated metals and complete in a
leather wallet 8/6
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNEU
AND BKOS., DTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
The Steering Column.
BUICK 8-40 ROADMASTER PASSES
STRENUOUS TEST.
SPLENDID ACCELERATION AND COMFORTABLE
RIDING NOTABLE FEATURES.
BY FRED BERRY.
FOR more than 30 years Buick has steadily developed the
valve-in-head type of motor, and while doing so has
established an enviable reputation among Australian motorists
for performance, reliability and freedom from mechanical
troubles.
The new series 8/40 Roadmaster tested recently over the
“Bulletin” course includes certain changes in design, aimed
mainly at securing greater passenger comfort, better road-
holding and generally a higher factor of safety in driving. The
characteristically high standard of road performance is well
maintained.
The outstanding change is the substi-
tution of hydraulic for mechanical
brakes, but with customary Buick caution
an auxiliary mechanical set, actuated by
reversed hand lever, is also provided.
The ride stabiliser is now placed in
front instead of at the rear, and is
coupled to knee-action inde-
pendent front-wheel suspen-
sion, the result being a marked
improvement in roadholding
when cornering at speed.
Steering is newly designed,
of centre point type, providing
fingertip control with a decided
self-centring action.
The streamlined effect of
body design is more pro-
nounced than in earlier models,
whilst the luggage trunk,
standard equipment on all
closed types, is less obtrusive,
and offers less hold for dust.
The straight-eight valve-in-
head type, push-rod-operated
motor is mounted in the
chassis on five soft rubber
cushions. Bore, 3 3-32 in., and
stroke, 3|in., give a swept
volume of 233 cubic inches.
R.A.C. rating is 30.63 h.p.
Compression ratio is 5.55 to 1,
and 93 b.h.p. is developed at
3200 r.p.m.
Cylinders, cast en bloc, are of special
grey iron, and are integral with the upper
half of the crankcase, providing a rigid
support for crankshaft bearings.
Anolite pistons of specially hardened
aluminium alloy are used instead of cast-
iron, as hitherto. These pistons, whilst
50 p.c. lighter than iron, are equal in
wear-resisting qualities. Four rings—
Right side of the 8/40 unit-constructed motor, clutch and
gearbox, showing accessibility of various parts.
two compression and two oil-control
rings—are located above the gudgeon pin
on each piston.
Connecting rods, I-beam section, are
forgings of high carbon steel carefully
balanced and fitted with steel-backed
babbitt bearings.
Graceful lines and improved streamlining in the new series 8/40 Buick Roadmaster.
Crankshaft, running on five steel-
backed bearings, is balanced statically
and dynamically, fully counterweighted
and equipped with a friction-type tor-
sional vibration damper on the forward
end.
Valves are overhead type, one-piece
construction. Inlets are of nichrome
steel and exhausts
of silchrome steel.
Two valve springs
are used on each
valve, permitting
maximum revs,
without fear of
damaging seats or
bouncing from the
cam.
Valves are actu-
ated by hollow steel
push rods with
adequate provision
for lubrication.
Rocker arm are of
special heat-treated
steel fitted with
steel-backed bab-
bitt bushings on the cross shaft. Cam-
shaft is driven by a short, sturdy,
silent chain, requiring no adjustment for
lengthy periods.
Fuel is drawn from a 14gal. tank at
rear of chassis by means of a diaphragm-
type mechanical pump driven by gears
from the camshaft, and fed to the car-
burettor through large section filters
and settling bowl. Carburettor is Strom-
berg dual down-draught type, each unit
feeding two front and two rear cylinders
and providing an even mixture at all
speeds. A large section mesh-type air-
cleaner and intake silencer is mounted
high above the engine block.
Intake and exhaust manifolds are sepa-
rate units of cast-iron, intake manifold
being four-port design. Choke idling
and heat controls attached to carburettor
and induction system are each automatic
in operation and controlled by separate
thermostat units. Throttle and starter
motor are interconnected, depressing the
accelerator pedal or withdrawing dash-
board throttle control causing the motor
to fire with the ignition switch in “on”
position.
Main bearings, connecting-rod and
- camshaft bearings, timing chain, rocker-
arm shaft and bushings are fed with oil
at pressure delivered by geared-type
pump, a large section filter being incor-
porated in the pipe line.
Rocker-arm shaft on overhead valve
gear is hollow, provision being made to
supply each arm with
the exact quantity of
oil required.
Pistons, cylinder
walls and gudgeon
pins are lubricated by
splash.
A six-volt separate
unit Delco-Remy elec-
trical plant is fitted.
Generator is of the
third brush, heavy
duty, air-cooled type,
with voltage regulator.
The starter motor has
positive gear drive,
with overrunning clutch, gear engage-
ment being actuated by splendid oper-
ated by the accelerator pedal. Engage-
ment with ring gear when engine is run-
ning is prevented by a vacuum-operated
switch.
Coil-and-battery ignition is used, the
distributor being of the jump-spark type
with both vacuum and centrifugal auto-
matic advance and retard of firing point.
An octane
selector pro-
vides a further
method of
altering ig n i-
tion timing
when using
various grades
of fuel.
Firing se-
que n c e is
1-6-2-5-8-3-7-4,
plug gap
20-25 thou.,
breaker gap
12-17 thou.
Com bination
ignition switch
and steering-
gear lock is
fitted to steer-
ing column.
Transmission
is through a
single - plate
cushion drive
dry-disc clutch
with newly-
designed with-
drawal mechan-
Efficient method of
securing ventilation
of crankcase and
valve gear.
ism to a three-speed-and-
reverse gearbox. Provision is
made for ventilation of clutch
housing, giving cooler opera-
tion under severe driving con-
ditions.
Transmission gears are heli-
cal cut, synchromesh type,
second speed ratio being
mounted on needle-roller bear-
ings. All gears, including first
and reverse, are “silent.
Central-ball type change-
speed lever is fitted.
Torque tube final drive to
rear axle is employed, the
single balanced metal univer-
sal joint at rear of gearbox
being self - lubricated and
totally enclosed.
Rear axle is semi-floating
type in rolled-steel banjo-type
housing. An adjustable spiral
bevel ring gear is fitted in the differential
assembly. Final reduction ratio is 4.44
to 1.
Chassis is channel section with X-type
centre cross members and two horizontal
cross members across rear end of frame.
.
Wheelbase is 118 m., minimum ground
clearance 7 5-16 m.
Open coil type independent suspension
is fitted to front wheels. Rear springs,
underslung, semi-elliptic, are longer at
rear than front to im P rove nding


MOTORISTS WISE
SIMONIZ
Driven 3,280 miles
and looks old
BEAUTY
LE.ACE
SOM BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, 6/-.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
«
A
jM yA
111(11!
£7
’
mm
mm*
i§ir^p
■
&
8|:;
p: PPP
«:W
™ i
PPPPI8
PwPP
PIIPPIPP
PM5P5S
iilllliiiiii
:
P»5
X’/'
■
dmmPM :<
* At - >; '
ftSSSSS:
T
mm
WMi
/
X '
' /
mwm
IUFOR
STEERING E CHASSIS PARTS
Though the hand that holds the wheel, may often be ignorant even
of their very existence, there are several Dufor Steering Parts upon
which SAFETY depends.
These, parts have to stand up to hard wear and gruelling conditions,
and inevitably the time comes when replacement is imperative.
Be sure, therefore, to have your garagema.n check over the steering
at least every 5,000 miles.
Dufor Steering and Chassis Parts are equal to original factory
equipment, and are exported overseas against world wide
competition.
DUFOR SHACKLE BOLTS, DUFOR KING PINS, DUFOR TIE ROD
BOLTS AND BUSHES, ECCENTRIC TIE ROD SOCKETS.
Distributed by wholesalers and supplied by reputable garages
throughout the Southern Hemisphere.
Manufactured by
DULY & HANSFORD LTD.
Marrickville, N.S.W.
qualities. Threaded U-type shackles are
fitted front and rear, and spring bumpers
are located on the axle.
Double-action hydraulic shock-ab-
sorbers are used on front and single-
action on rear springs. A spring-type ride
stabiliser is connected across the front of
the frame, the arms being connected to
spring seats through rubber-cushioned
links.
Steering is worm-and-double-roller type,
with tie rods pivoting from a central
point, giving extremely light control and
lessening road shock. Steering-gear re-
duction ratio is 20.8 to 1. Steering wheel
is provided with flexible metal spokes.
Turning circle on left and right lock is
39ft.
Brakes are four-wheel hydraulic, in-
ternal expanding with centrifuse drums,
braking surface being of cast-iron. Emer-
gency equipment, actuated by a “re-
versed” hand lever located beneath the
dashboard, applies service equipment
through independent brakage.
Bodywork, by Holden’s, is well fin-
ished, with neat and serviceable fittings.
New type clutch showing withdrawal
mechanism and provision for cushioning
drive.
All exterior hardware is chromium-
plated. Vee-type windscreen is of
“safety” glass, dual electric wipers being
fitted to the bottom edge.
Front seat is adjustable for length, and
of generous width. No-draught venti-
lation is used on front and rear quarter
windows.
A neat and roomy luggage compart-
ment moulded with the rear panel is
standard on closed types.
The instrument panel is neatly
arranged, the large, square speedometer
having fuel gauge, ammeter, oil gauge
and temperature indicator let neatly into
the margin. An electric clock is let into
the front of the glove-box on passenger’s
side.
The car tested, a Roadmaster 8/40
four-door sedan, was driven by H. Poul-
ton, of Boyded, Ltd., N.S.W. distributors.
Weight, inclusive of driver and observer,
was 35fcwt. Speedometer reading stood
at 1156 miles, and as a consequence the
motor, though silent' and smooth in
operation, was still somewhat stiff,
On the run over the “Bulletin” course
the outstanding impressions gained were
the ease and faciHt with which the car
ld b handled in traffic owine to a
, • ... f ® ,•
“mbination of excellent steering quall-
bes ’ S enerous l° c h and splendid accelera-
tion. Only a small throttle opening was
“ cessar / h> maintain a cruising speed of
50 , m P h - on give-and-take mam roads,
and ro “* and unmade dirt roads such as
met "f“, h the Grose Vale section were
n =f ot > ated “> a «ry safe and comfort-
ab e manner . There was an unmistak-
able r f erve , of P ower e , ven when dlmb '
mg extremely steep grades in top gear.
Results of various performance tests
Paving the all-round qualities of the
Bmek 8/40 are as follows:
Rolling test, in neutral, from a speed
of 15 m.p.h., 733 yards.
Maximum speed over measured mile
with flying start, 46 l-ssec.; average
speed, 77.92 m.p.h.
Hill climb, 2 1-5 miles, Kurrajong
Mountain, from standing start, 3min.
24 l-ssec.
Slow running in top gear, 350 yards,
in 2min. 45 3-ssec.; average speed, 4.3
m.p.h.
Accelerated section, 350 yards in 14
4-ssec., finishing at 65 m.p.h.; average
speed, 48.6 m.p.h.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top in 7 4-ssec; from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
second in ssec.; from oto 50 m.p.h. in
13 4-ssec.
Brakes stopped from 25 m.p.h. in
23ft. 9in.
Fuel consumed, sjgal. ; distance, 118
miles; average, 22.47 m.p.g. (40.1 ton-
miles per gallon), coasting permitted.
Average speed inclusive of all tests,
35.7 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
D.O’N. (Tumut, N.S.W.). — The brakes on
my ’34 car (22,000 miles ) are pulling on un-
evenly, causing swerving when vigorously
applied on dry roads. I also find the pedal
has sometimes to be pushed further in than at
others. Cause and cure ?
Your braking system is operated hydrauli-
cally and should pull up evenly regardless of
shoe wear or adjustment. If air has entered
the oil lines it will cause erratic operation, and
the system will have to be “bled” and refilled
with the correct oil. If this does not effect a
cure the trouble will be found to be due to oil
escaping along the back axle housing on to
one of the brake shoes.
t- * * *
J.N.G. (Ipswich, Q.). —(1) What is meant by
the term two - or three-litre engine, and why is
it that engines of similar capacity are rated, at
different horse-power ? (2) Why do engines
of the same horse-power vary in actual output ?
(1) Using the metric system, the unit of capa-
city in internal-combustion motors is one litre,
equal to 1000 cubic centimetres. The apparent
variation in rating is due to use of ancient
formulae, where horse-power (R.A.C. rating)
is determined by square of cylinder bore multi-
plied by number of cylinders and divided by
1613. Thus the car with larger bore, even
though of identical swept volume, will show
a higher rated horse-power. (2) Rated horse-
power (R.A.C. or S.A.E. formulae) has no
bearing upon indicated or maximum output.
Overall design, valve timing, compression ratio
and supercharging each have a direct bearing
upon brake-horsepower. Recent catalogues
show cars of three-litre capacity in the touring
division with an output of but 50 to 60 b.h.p.,
whilst many super-sports or racing models,
equipped with superchargers, show better than
150 b.h.p. per litre of capacity.
* * h= *
W.D. (Ayr, Q.). — My four-cylinder car is
a ’24 model, fitted with Solex carburettor.
During the last few weeks 1 have been troubled
with excessive petrol consumption, together
with sluggish pulling in top gear. I also notice
a distinct odor of petrol, accompanied by
sooty exhaust, when accelerating in middle
gear. Have tried smaller jets without improve-
ment. What can be done ?
Symptoms indicate a punctured metal float
in the carburettor. This will prevent the needle
valve from shutting off fuel supply and cause
flooding and consequent overrich mixture.
note position of fracture by column of air
bubbles. Keep in heated water until bubbles
c . ease and petrol inside container is exhausted,
then seal with solder.
*
D.N.T. (Bowen, Q.). — My 30 model six-
cylinder sedan (48,600 miles ) is causing me
concern by reason of oil-pressure gauge drop-
ping back almost to zero after a run of per-
-20 r> ] iles ]. l Normally pressure should be
30 1 b., and although the engine is pulling
reasonably well I am wondering whether any-
thing seriously needs adjustment.
Drop in oil pressure might be expected after
mileage stated, and is due to either wear in
mam and connecting-rod bearings, permitting
oil to pass through freely before pressure
shows on gauge, or to wear in oil-pump gear
and casing, preventing normal pressures being
built up after oil has become heated.
Motor Oddities.
“T.C.”: Some years before the war
I was driving an English car fitted with
steel-studded Dunlops. Driving across
the central-western plains of N.S.W. at
llOdeg. in the shade, I was surprised to
see a hoop bowl along the road ahead
and - roll into a gutter. On alighting I
found the offside front tread had melted
off. The others were giving notice. I
sluiced the remainder from the waterbag
and carried on. The tread that melted
off was still hanging on Narraway boun-
dary fence a year later.


“THE AGE ”
Established. 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment,' and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
"The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
“The News”
It won’t tell the
whole world. .No!
BUT
If you’ve a sales story
you want to get about
It will
certainly tell
South Australia
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G Pike. First Floor.
Newspaper House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON —F A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use "The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier, Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from I*. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. O. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
miner
Women’s
Supplement
l
‘The Examiner" publishes every Wednesday a Sup-
plement for Women containing all the social news
and specialised features concerning the woman and
the home. It is the woman’s own newspaper, and
rivals Australia’s best. It not only reaches the home, but
stays there. You can reach the women of Northern Tas-
mania only by advertising in “The Examiner’s” Women’s
Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71*75 Paterson-st„ Launceston
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st,, Melbourne C1
. G. DOUGAN. 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Westralia’s
Happy Station
On its new power of 1000
watts is a welcome guest
in every AVestern radio
home. A sales medium for
every advertiser in Aus-
tralia.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
wing where Dinny leaned comfortably forward on
his horse’s neck ; Dinny’s black dog bowled up stiff-
legged, its tail and hair along the back bristling to a
menacing growl.
“Isn’t he a beauty, Dinny?”
Dinny glanced down his horse’s neck at the two
dogs, one circling threateningly, the other retreating
nervously and getting all mixed up in the rope. “He’s
too good-looking!”
“But why?” asked the crestfallen Bill.
“Four white legs. His feet won’t last! ”
The boy glanced at the short, broad head of
Dinny’s black dog, then back at the long white muzzle
of his purchase, with the tan spots superimposed on
the black over the soft, brown eyes and the clean,
regular markings. The kelpie might be a better dog,
but Bill could never like him as he already liked this
fellow. He rode back round the mob with the dog
in tow, sooling him on to the lagging sheep till old
Mac came round from the other wing and cautioned
him not to run them off their legs.
They halted the mob half-way through the morn-
ing. The sheep had had no water for two days and
the waterhole ahead was hard of access —a dwindling
pool between steep banks with a boggy deathtrap at
one end. Mac cut off a small mob and started them
off, when a rapid drumming of hoofs stayed him. A
glance at the approaching horseman decided that
something serious had happened. He merged his
sheep with the main mob and cantered back.
Reg pulled his heaving horse back on its haunches.
“Come back quick, Mac!” he gasped. “There’s been
a smash. Old George turned the waggonette over
on himself. I think he’s dead!”
“How did it happen?” Mac Andrew demanded
fiercely.
“He must have got a bottle of rum off the coach.
We started off camp, and he began to lay on to the
horses. He got them galloping, and they hit a stump.
Over she goes on top of George, and the horses went
bush with the pole. I pulled him out; but, Gawd!
he looks crook! ”
Mac Andrew wheeled on his son. “You and Bill
hold the mob till we get back!” He beckoned to
Dinny, and the three of them shot off in a cloud of
dust. Bill stared after them with mixed feelings. He
had never been keen on old George. His sallow, hair-
less face looked uncanny—unhealthy—but the thought
of the old man who had been so lively that morning
lying still and dead caught at his throat.
A shout recalled him to the fact that the
sheep had strung out in the lead, and that
young Mac was having more than he could do to
hold them. Bill cantered round, sending his dog at
the stragglers and rushing them back. The leaders
were a different proposition, however. Something
had stirred them up ; the furtive breeze may have
wafted a hint of the water toward them, and they
pressed past young Mac, baa-ing excitedly, ignoring
his shouts and the charges of his shaggy pony.
Bill’s dog looked like saving the situation, but
was hampered by the rope still attaching it to its
new owner. Bob jerked to a standstill beside him,
his round, boyish face hot and woebegone. “It’s no
use, Bill! We can’t hold them. I’ll cut off the leaders
and take them in. We can only water a few at a time.
You try and hold the others.”
They forced a lane through the mob, battering
back one side till the others drew away. The two boys
raced incessantly backward and forward, their horses
dripping with sweat, and Bill’s dog dragging on the
rC p e with - tg tongue hanging out. Then little Mac
swung his pony and raced it after the leaders, bustling
the tail and hustling them into a manageable mob.
redoubled his efforts, but as fast as he pushed
back one salient others crowded out behind him. Then
t g e rG p e got rounc { his horse’s legs, and he had to dis-
mount and untie the dog. There was no time to
straighten things out; he freed the dog and mounted
again, to find himself in the middle of a sea of woolly
backs’surging relentlessly after the little mob in front,
Young Mac’s mob had taken charge. Their trot
bad quickened to an eager, stiff-legged canter, and
t be boy could only ride up and down one flank in
tbe hope of deflecting them away from the boggy end
G f t b e waterhole. Bill was too busy with his own
affairs at the moment to know what was happening
elsewhere. He got out in front of his mob and called
to t b e dog to follow. It regarded him for a moment,
t b en calmly turned and trotted off to the distant
waterhole. The boy stared in wide-eyed consternation
at t b e flagrant desertion. He called again; the dog
nD attention, but trotted steadily on. A wave of
blinding rage surged over him ; he wanted to over-
take that dog, to get his hands on him and teach him
obedience. He swung his horse round ; the sheep were
st m pouring out behind him, when a sudden diversion
halted him.
\ brown horse swept round from the rear of
t h e mo b, with the sheep falling back before the
steady, vicious tattoo of Dinny’s stockwhip. He
gbot between Bill and the dog. “Let him go!” he
snapped. “Canter round and punch in that wing!”
Young Mac came tearing back from the timber,
heels flaying the pony’s ribs. “It’s a rotten hole,
Dinny'” he wailed. “They’re all bogging at this end.”
Dinny glanced quickly round and shook his head
despondently. “We can’t hold them without dogs.
p un ch into them till Mac gets back!”
They returned to the fray with the barrage of
Dinny’s whip to hearten them. Bill, still burning with
resentment at his dog’s desertion,’ drove his horse
savagely at the oncoming tide. The hollows of his
horse’s neck and flanks were black with sweat, and a
ww of foam nlastered its ribs Still the sheen kept
surging way in front of his mshes
only to spread round behind him. Sweat poured down
his face and tasted salt on his lips ; the dust mingled
w hh it and caked on his features, rimmed his eyes.
jje brandished his hat wildly at the unruly mob,
shouted from his parched throat and charged again
anc | again. It was useless. The sheep were all
around him, baa-ing excitedly, pressing past with
outstretched ’ necks, cantering with a stiff, rocking-
horse gait. He pulled up, his breath sobbing,
eyes blazing at his impotence, while his lathered horse
stood still with drooping head—-and still the sheep
strained past. There was no stopping them now. He
was licked. He saw them sweep past young Mac in
a woolly tide; even Dinny was submerged.
The boys converged on him, silent with exhaus-
tion and defeat, and as they urged their tired horses
toward the waterhole old Mac came galloping past
them. Sheep were piling down the steep banks like
a cataract. They left their horses on the bank and
fought their way through the surging, heaving sea of
frantic sheep to join Mac Andrew, tragic-eyed and
panting with exertion and already covered with grey,
slimy mud.
The soupy water was full of sheep pushed m by
those behind and still drinking avidly as they swam,
A pall of dust drifted across the narrow banks, merci-
fully obscuring the happenings at the other end ; and
still the unending woolly cataract poured over the
edge, slid down the steep bank and piled itself madly
on the seething animals below, shouldering and
trampling deeper and deeper into the mire, while their
incessant clamor filled the air.
MacAndrew and Dinny thrust forward to the
boggy margin, seizing sheep and ruthlessly heaving
them back to the firm earth. As they cleared a patch,
grotesque, lop-eared heads and skinny necks, slathered
in slimy blue mud, raised and heaved feebly from
the soupy bog. The men grabbed and dragged,
grabbed and heaved and slung unceremoniously to
the bank behind. Bill ranged himself beside them
while young Mac dragged the rescued further back.
And still the mob swarmed down on them, charging
blindly into the just-vacated bogholes on top of the men.
Bill’s back ached like a toothache. He tried to
stand upright, but the pain from his outraged muscles
stopped him. Only the difference in their build served
to distinguish the men. All were plastered from head
to foot; hands, face and clothes invisible under the
coating of blue-grey' mud. After a time the action of
dragging and heaving became automatic. They
worked with backs and heads bent, seeing no further
than the immediate vicinity lest the full magnitude of
the task appal them.
Some of the rescued got shakily to their feet
and staggered off. Some stood propped uncertainly
still for a while. Others collapsed and lay prone, their
mud-plastered necks outstretched along the ground.
Many remained where their mates had trampled them
into the mud ; the men reserved their ebbing strength
for those with chances of recovery.
At length Bill could bear it no longer. The sheep
were thinning a little around them. He dragged his
sodden boots out of the mud and crawled painfully
back among the huddled forms that lined the margin.
Young Mac had disappeared to round up the mob.
Bill had no conception of the time of day till he
noticed the shadows high up the opposite bank. This
was a day to be measured not in hours and minutes
but by events, emotion, exhaustion and aches. None
of them had eaten since daylight, yet Bill felt no
craving for food ; all he wanted was rest —immediate
and unlimited.
MacAndrew stumbled toward him with squelch-
ing feet. His features were hidden in mud and his
voice was a croak. “Get your horse . . Tell
them . . . camp out on the plain . . . handy.”
Bill dragged himself painfully up the bank on
scrambling hands and toes and pulled himself up
into the saddle. Vaguely he saw young Mac jogging
round the sheep, a dog trotting at his heels. It looked
like Bill’s own dog, but he was beyond resentment
or jealousy or emotion of any kind.
About a mile back he met the horses, and waited
emotionless while Reg surveyed him with startled
eyes and, more from recognition of the horse than
of the mud-plastered rider, gave vent to a concerned
“Gawd Almighty! It’s the Pommy!”
Bill mumbled his message, and Reg nodded
impatiently, a spate of questions on his tongue.
“Awright. The turnout’s coming. George’s just
behind.”
George! What was his memory trying to tell
him about George? Didn’t something happen to him
one day—a long time ago? George? He turned
dull, inquiring eyes on the horsetailer. “Isn’t George
dead?”
Reg spat in disgust. “Dead! No ; the old cow
was only drunk and knocked out. He kidded me all
right! Took us all day to mend the pole and harness.
Look at ’im coming along! Dead! Pity ’e wasn’t—
the old sod!”
(To be continued next week)


Treat CAUSE
not A Sumblom
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
FOR
% " t/v ' >* •' . :$
BILIOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION
SICK HEADACHES
BAD BREATH
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found the
remedy that gets at the cause. They give you clean Bowels,
a healthy Stomach, and stimulate the Liver and Kidneys. For
Biliousness, Dizziness, Constipation, Sick Headaches, and such
complaints, arising from Imperfect Digestion, Sluggish Liver,
and Inactive Kidneys, they are unexcelled.
jy
MADE IN AUSTRALIA—BY
AUSTRALIANS—FOR
AUSTRALIANS
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
have worms, are suffering intense pain
and distress, and are practically irrespon
sible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and, until some
more serious symptoms appear, nothing
is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so char-
acteristic that no mother need have any
doubts. The best proof of worms ;s
worms, and if the general conduct of
the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will afford
ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the Abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the Nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
Nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The Bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
Dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ng with another. The Abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
NEW PACK
5,0 c
88
m
c 0
2/-
tin.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are a purely vegetable medicinal
preparation compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms,
which infest the intestines. They con-
tain specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared
in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney ; or 6 Farish Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Price, 2/- per Box (6 boxes 11/6),
post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
Ji
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
> ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
1
f V
,0?
&v jhV
» ,_>* 1
pv- o^-rf^
-- J&
/Ate* ..."
rvss*
»'&<*
/> *
it’
v
<
\°
i»V
p>
o\
k \* e
V
lS S
a
k .s’
srt
0* ..•*’ .••' c/ scf'$ c f'
.■ ■ o \£ \.° \^c.
~•••■’ ....•'*’*# Jff'&r'W*
> c,eT
V^sS
sM*'
iV
'fV
C


l or Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
S'
r‘ r jSr c '
/V/F' •.
... ,
£\
f’wAv
Sr,, :•/ '
2
***'>*.
*>
sa a
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE .
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS u>iM not burn
“WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
/or Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc.
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING . ..
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. War at ah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World’s Best
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD. a
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers*
Handbook
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
