

V.' ' v -
mm
The happiest of holidays will soon be here! All too soon it will be
over—unless you have a Kodak to remember all the fun in bright
clear snapshots.
Photography is real sport with to-day’s Kodaks—they embody so
many improvements for better pictures.
Now’s the time to bring your snapshotting up-to-date!
KODAK REGENT features a
COUPLED RANGE-FINDER.
This beautiful streamlined model has every-
thing “built-in,” nothing “built-on.” Directly-
coupled range-finder ends ail guesswork in
focussing. Choice of eight pictures size 2£ x
1| inches or sixteen 2| x inches. With f/3.8
lens and Compur Shutter. Price £lB/10/-
Other Folding Kodaks from 28/6.
rer c
Ilii
MINIATURE KODAKS DE LUXE. What-
ever your requirements in a modern
miniature, there's a Kodak exactly
suited to your needs.
BANTAM SPECIAL, (on left).
Directly - coupled military - type
range-finder; automatic film measur-
ing; f/2 Lens; Compur Rapid
Shutter. Price, £26/10/-.
KODAK RETINA (on right).
Offers convenience of work with 36
exp. 35 mm. Film at low cost. With
f/3.5 Lens and Speed Compur
Shutter.
Chromium Finish, £l2.
Regular Finish, £lO/10/-,
See the New 6.2O’BROWNIES.
All ready for the coming holiday fun are these
sturdy box models. They’re smaller —smarter —*
and still better picture-makers. 6.20 Junior Models
from 14/6. 6.20 Regular Models from 19/6.
Write for your free copy of the Spring Booklet.
safs
Now you CAN afford Home Movies.
Your Cine-Kodak Eight will give you
brilliant movies you’ll be proud of.
AH that you most enjoy takes on new
zest when recorded in movies you
make yourself. New reduced price,
with f/3.5 Lens, £9/18/6.
Write for Special Booklet.
M
m
-
P
§fn
:
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
Elizabeth r Str^ t t re H'olfa^t ne 662^Hav^Stre >^t Se, • R^k” 8 t <^ eet ’ Melbourne, C. I ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; 3 7 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45
Also stocked bv KODAK NEW ZEALAND TD U n r^ treet, c^ oowoom ba; East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville.
681 Colombo Street? Christdhurch * ’ 62 QUCen StrCet ’ Auckland =7O Princes Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington;
The Bulletin
Sixty Pages—-Ten of “All That Swagger”
Vol. 57.—N0. 2954.
Wednesday, September 23, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
e Journal®
saf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 336 •„
PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature. , ... ,
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible tor
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter The trustees, who wilL supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid tor at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates ,
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales ot works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retam ail
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
b> Any ' U bona'fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be tne
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Mranscripts mdst be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name j
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters °ut of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is -5_ ueorge-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no w °£ k , s . ubl F tt£ j4
is, m the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
PURPOSE
OF
LITERATURE
Canon Ham-
mond, as editor
of “Grit,” re-
cently sent out a
questionnaire to
“leaders of
thought in a-11
walks of life” seeking a reply to the
general question: “To what do you attri-
bute the alarming increase in crime and
drunkenness?”
Dr. Mowll, the Anglican Archbishop
of Sydney, while not committing himself
to an acceptance of the statement that
there had been an increase in this sort
of activity, replied that, assuming that it
were so, it was due to a number of
factors, among which he specified:
Those responsible for fiction in litera-
ture and forms of entertainment which
(1) excite the passions, or (2) tend to bring
religion or other moral agencies into con-
tempt, or (3) suggest that happiness is not
linked with virtue or misery with vice, fail
to realise that they are creating an atmo-
sphere favorable to vice and crime.
One is concerned with this statement
here because it invades the field of litera-
ture, brings us face to face with the ques-
tion: What is the purpose of literature?
It need hardly be stated that the pur-
pose of literature is not to create an
atmosphere favorable to vice and crime,
but it must also be stated that literature
cannot be produced without in some
degree exciting the passions. The pur-
pose of pure literature, as distinct from
applied literature, is to communicate
experience. To ask that literature should
make us moral, or more moral if we are
in some degree moral already, is to ask
it to undertake a function that does not
properly belong to it. Pure literature
should communicate experience to us,
and it is literature by reason of the fact
that it makes that experience significant.
But that experience need not necessarily
have any moral purpose. If the result
is to make some people disposed towards
vice and crime, then it is something else
which is at fault.
We must, of course, rule out of con-
sideration literature which is inspired by
obviously base motives. There are, un-
doubtedly, cheap paper-covered books on
the market to-day which are being pur-
veyed solely and simply as fodder for the
psychoneurotic. But it must be allowed
that, since literature derives its matter
from pure experience, the possibility of
that pure experience being both sensuous
and emotional is obvious. So literature
must, almost inevitably, excite the pas-
sions. Passions are, in various forms, the
mainspring of human activity, so no
human being could really communicate
any significant experience to another
without appealing to the passionate side
of his nature. All the best preachers, all
the most eminent theological writers, all
the most successful missionaries, through
all ages, have been aware of this truth ;
and they have acted on it. But here we
might notice the essential difference be-
tween the literary artist and the clerical
artist, which is this, that the clerical artist
does exclude and does transform, in re-
gard to his material, but the literary
artist, though he may exclude, is not
called upon to transform. His job is
done when he has communicated pure
experience in an entertaining way.
And if we understand that the purpose
of literature is to communicate pure ex-
perience, we must understand also that
there will be occasions when such com-
munication will take the form of a ten-
dency to regard organised religion and
organised morality as something very
different from that which the organisers
believe them to be. Of course the church
organisers and the moral organisers may
account this as a defect in literature, and
may even credit the literary artist with
malevolent intentions. It is, perhaps, too
much to expect that the church folk
should start an investigation to see
whether, in these circumstances, the
defect might not be in the exposition of
the organised religion or in its ministers
or in the quality of the organised moral-
ity. In any event, we must remember
that morality itself is subject to change,
that there have been different forms of
religion at different times in the course
of man’s history, but the quality of pure
experience is unchangeable. Prophets,
priests and kings may all pass into obli-
vion, but there will always be in the
heart of man a desire to communicate
pure experience, and to have it communi-
cated to him.
To say that literature should always
suggest that happiness is linked with
virtue and vice with misery is to • say, in
effect, that literature should not com-
municate pure experience. It is to say,
in effect, that literature should be
modelled on the style of a Sunday-school
story. If we were to apply this stricture
to all literature, then the Bible would
probably stand in need of some solid ex-
purgation. It appears to me, at least, that
Job did not think that virtue was always
linked with happiness. He appears to
have been under the impression that the
wicked did, occasionally, prosper; and
anyone who lives in any intimate sort of
contact with reality must have received
a similar impression, on occasions at least.
This is a fact in human experience which
demands expression. After all, pure
literature is written for adults, with an
adult mentality, and it would be a deeply
disgraceful insult to the mentality of
these people if anyone tried to commu-
nicate pure experience to them in a dis-
torted form. Of course, if the world
were an ideally perfect place writers
could always link happiness with virtue
and Vice with misery. But that day is
not yet.
The writer’s art, and the purpose of
all art, is to sift life. The writer isolates
a fact in pure experience and holds it
up and says “There you are.” Art is
a criticism of life, because it does sift it.
The artist does this sifting because the
average man is unable to do it for him-
self. It requires a special sort of tech-
nique, which is, in some degree at least,
akin to that employed by the church folk.
The vision of church people, which ex-
presses itself in firmness of doctrine, is
achieved by means of a partial memory,
which seems clear because so much has
been left out. The literary artist travels
the same road, but only to a certain
point. When the churchman hears the
inner voice he is moved to tell all and
sundry that this (his revelation) is the
way, the only way. But the artist does
not behave so dogmatically. He has no
pontifical role. His business is merely to
put the thing on paper, on canvas or in
stone, and say “Look.” He has done
the sifting. It is for the other fellow to
draw his own conclusions.
GERALD DILLON.
Is Originality
Desirable?
With desperate
blasphemy against
the high gods of
criticism I boldly
assert that origi-
nality is no longer a desirable quality in
the practice of literature. The train of
reasoning which has led me to this belief
is so simple that it may not be easily
pursued by the involved minds of many
critics.
Firstly, I would suggest that originality
is no longer desirable because it is no
longer possible to be truly original. After
all the avid searching for new forms and
themes by millions of writers during a
period of more than 2000 years, it would
be unreasonable to expect that acceptable
new forms should be extracted from a
medium so rigidly limited as the dic-
tionary.- Secondly, I would urge that,
because it is no longer possible to be
truly original, the quest for originality
may unconsciously become a quest for
the fantastic, the ugly and the grotesque.
For my part I take greater pleasure in a
work which lacks originality but
approaches close to the eternal goal of
beauty, truth and power than one which
follows strange creeds and in the end
only apes originality with eccentricity.
Literature is finite. Since the major
glory of Greece and the minor and
derivative glory of Rome the technique
and objects of literature have been
essentially the same, though its scope
has been greatly extended by the develop-
ment of fiction and the prose drama. The
qualities which have been necessary in
all past ages for the production of the
greatest literature —profundity of intel-
lect, a thirst for truth and an ardent
sensitiveness to beauty—are not a whit
less necessary in the twentieth century.
Science and industry have not impugned
their indispensability. And as the human
mind has grown in the past to a
grandeur which will probably not be
greatly excelled for many ages, so in
the past also the technique of poetry and
prose had been brought to an excellence
which seems to be insusceptible of fur-
ther important improvement without an
incredible reorientation of human emo-
tions, intellect and taste. Wrought by
thousands of novelists and short-story
writers, the technique of fiction has been
brought to its present condition of near
perfection only in' this century, but it is
as difficult to conceive of any great im-
provement in this technique as it is to
conceive of the scope of literature ever
embracing more than the four familiar
forms of poetry, prose, drama and
fiction. Is it possible that literature will
stagnate while the evolution of man and
his institutions surges on?
Literature will not stagnate. In its
development there may be discerned two
motions. Besides the evolution of tech-
nique, which may be regarded as having
almost reached its greatest development,
there is a screwlike movement, repre-
senting a succession of movements, re-
actions, fashions and revivals. Three
causes tend to force literature along a
series of cycles: the changing conditions
of life, the possibility of improving a
literary form almost to the point of
perfection, and the contempt of youth
for age. As the spirit of the age and
the spirit of literature cease to be one
and begin to travel along divergent roads,
the younger writers, tiring of the old
philosophies, tiring of using forms and
techniques which admit of no important
advances, again weld literature into the
fabric of life by reviving old forms and
philosophies, slightly altered, or (up to
the present) by creating new forms and
philosophies more in harmony with the
changed spirit of life. I am compelled
to believe, therefore, that in the future
original creation will be replaced by an
endless rotation of forms and philo-
sophies. For this reason 1 am not wholly
impatient of the antics of the extreme
modernists. They are cleansing our
minds of staleness, preparing the way, by
providing the necessary contrast, for the
advent of truer, stronger, more beautiful
forms. They are very useful —as a purge.
So I look forward to a future in which
the good writer will strive not for origi-
nality, not for the “new angle,” but for
the “fresh angle.” Strong individualities
boldly projected on to the passing scene
of literature will command even greater
public attention than in the past. Cycles
of briefer duration will mark the un-
ending action and reaction between the
poles of romanticism and realism. And
this rhythm of change without any
marked progress will forestall intellectual
satiety.
In fiction it is already impossible to
construct a fundamentally original plot,
but variations of setting, mood and
characters offer a multitude of dramatic
and diverting combinations. Readers of
fiction now demand not true originality,
but the “fresh angle”—methods of
approach and treatment which deviate
from the familiar or are so old as to
appear new. In prose the fruitless striv-
ing for originality has resulted either in
the creation of a grotesque vocabulary
of new words or new meanings, with a
consequent disregard of the recognised
meanings firmly attached to legitimate
words, or prose of a baldness only com-
parable to the wall of a skyscraper. I
believe that in prose there will be a
comparatively early reversion to grace
and spontaneous, as opposed to extrane-
ous, ornament —perhaps within 50 or
100 years. The value of prose must
always depend not on its originality, but
on its precision, clarity, and adequacy
to its subject.
In poetry, also, originality is valuable
only so long as it is spontaneous and
natural. Poetry is a vehicle to perfec-
tion. Originality is of much less import-
ance than the splendid vision and the
technical excellence which adequately
expresses it. The freakishness of thought
and form with which a few egotists have
defaced poetry in recent years represents
only a turn in the wheel of time. When
the wheel turns again it will turn away
from frantic originality toward the
ancient goal of beauty,' truth and power.
LEIGHTON HOGARTH.
Poetry
Pannikin
In recent dis-
cussion in the
“Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” it
was mentioned
that Mr. R. S. Byrnes told the Rotarians
(!) that “there is no poet of world class
in Australia.” What is “a poet of world
class”? It is implied that Brennan is
not —but should this disturb us? Farther
down the column we are told that “of
Milton, Dryden. Wordsworth and
Shelley, Europe knows practically no-
thing,” These English poets are, there-
fore, not of world class (according to
the “S.M.H.” view), but evidently get a
favorable “verdict based on local preju-
dice,” which is obviously absurd.
Our critics appear to believe, owing,
no doubt, to the sporting and competi-
tive passions surrounding them, that
literary importance is a race or contest
that only one (if any) poet at a time
can win. The trophy offered is only a
dinted tin pannikin, anyway, with no
sugar sticking to the bottom and con-
taining only a few dead tea-leaves. The
losers in the race are fair game, and may
be torn to pieces for not winning a prize
they never coveted. The event draws
no “gate.” The audience is made up en-
tirely of friends and relations who are
admitted on free family tiokets issued to
the competitors. There are no cheers
for the man who passes the post first,
but only hoots for the rabbit that passes
last. The winner could never have won
but for the deplorably low standard of
the field. '
The talk of the judges after the con-
test consists almost wholly of shouted
investigations as to why Essex Evans,
the idol of Toowoomba, does not swear
as well as C. J. Dennis does, why O’Dowd
is so much more wobbly than Brennan,
why Neilson is so much frailer than
[Continued on page 4 .t


"Truth in Advertising” — Always. "The Senior Store.”
• FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
SPORTS DEPARTMENT
IS READY WITH YOUR GEAR FOR THE
Test
Cricket
y^s
v
/
■as*:.
*s»
m
> "S
4*?:
r
1
h|
£)
WALTER HAMMOND AUTOGRAPH DRIVERS
Balance and power commingled in a splendid bat for school and club use.
The blade is of selected Gradidge Essex Willow. Autographed by the
English Champion, W. R. Hammond. At Anthony Horderns .... 30/-
Other grades 37/6, 45/-, 47/6, 52/6, 5 7/6
30/
JACK FINGLETON
AUTOGRAPH BATS
A Lambert Bat, specially
selected by Australia’s
great opener, Jack Fingle-
ton. Finest selected Eng-
lish Willow, already oiled
25/-
and hammered. Special non-split splice. Jack
Fingleton Lambert XX. At' Anthony Horderns’, 257-
Other grades: 23/6, 27/6, 30/-, 35/- 42/-, 52/6
BATSMEN'S LEG
GUARDS
Large size, well flanked Leg
Guards for Batsmen. Made
with seven shin canes in
10/6
padded sheaths. At Anthony Horderns*, pair . . 10/6
OrKers, at Anthony Horderns’, pair—
-12/6, 15/6, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6
"VICTORY" CRICKET
BALLS
Guaranteed for 500 runs. The best
cheap leather ball made. Six
stitched seams. A very well finished
ball. At' Anthony Horderns’. . 7/-
71 -
The celebrated “King” series of high-class leather
balls. “Demon King.” At Anthony Horderns’, 13/6.
“Speed King.” At Anthony Horderns’ 10/6
“Red King.” At Anthony Horderns’ ........ 7/9
CRICKET REPAIRS
None too small, none too large for our craftsmen
to repair.
WORLD’S CRICKET RECORDS.
The 1 Ith Edition. All records up to the South
African Tour. Given free on request. Apply
Sports Department.
WICKETKEEPER'S
GLOVES
These are made for long
service. Special cupped
palms, blocked leather
27/6
fingerstalls, rubber finger-buffers. Padded cane wrist
guards, finest rubber facings.
At Anthony Horderns’ 27/6
Others, at Anthony Horderns’, pair—•
16/6, 19/6, 22/6, 32/6, 39/6, 42/6
DON BRADMAN
STEEL SHAFT BATS
The new sensation in
bats, dispensing with cane
handle and using English
true temper steel shafts.
Approved and used by
39/6
Don Bradman.
Other grades .
At Anthony Horderns’
45/-, 55/-,
39/6
70/-
WICKETKEEPER'S LEG
GUARDS
These will protect the wicket-
keeper from hard knocks.
Made with wide wing flanks,
16/6
seven packed canes, treble knee rolls and transverse
shin-buffer rolls. At Anthony Horderns’ .... 16/6
Others 17/6, 19/6, 22/6, 27/6, 32/6
JUTE COIR DOUBLE
WEAVE MATS
Combined reversible closely-
woven Jute and Coir Mats.
Play like turf. Very durable.
£B/19/6
Made in two mats 9-|- yards by 6 feet,
ends, leather lugs with set of spikes.
At Anthony Horderns’
Leather-bound
£B/19/6
COMPLETE CRICKET
CATALOGUE
The new Test Season Catalogue is out. Ask
or write for one. It is free. Profusely
illustrated to show every detail in the largest
collection of Cricket Goods in Australia.
COIR CRICKET MATS
These Coir Cricket Mats
are a dependable quality
for wear. Sturdily made
. .
I | jn»
in two pieces. Complete with spikes for secur-
ing to pitch. Green. Price, each ... £6/10/-
Better quality £7/15/-
Q Cricket Requisites—-Louder Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid
in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
all railway stations


McCrae (no judge in his senses would
ever compare them), why Baylebridge
was ever allowed to start ; the uneven
weights of Mary Gilmore and Myra
Morris are freely commented upon. One
candidate wastes his wind arguing
tree verse, another, caught by an idea
for a chant-royal, runs off the track
half-way round, while another, well
aware of his lack of pace and stamina
and of the time he will take to cover
the distance, takes the precaution to
bring his lunch.
How awfully worse than one another
are these poets of ours! Where are the
Phar Laps, the blue-ribanded Clydes-
dales and Frisian bulls? Is there a true
merino among them? Which of them
could work a chicken into a jam-tin?
Alas, where are the Norman Brookeses
and the Don Bradmans? There used to
be a fellow named Gordon when I was
a boy. I wonder if he’s dead. I lost
touch with such things after I married
and started a kitchen garden. I’ll buy
the “Snorting Probe” to-morrow and see
if it can tell me.
I have the honor to remain, sir, your
obedient servant, the last of the also lasts,
FURNLEY MAURICE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
HARD ON HUMANITY
SOME books give the impression of
having been written —perhaps un-
consciously— not so much to reveal life
as to express a grudge against it. This
is an aspect of preciousness, really,
though the necessarily sombre nature of
the work may prevent the quality from
being recognised—temporarily, at any
rate. This is particularly so if the work
is big, calling for a sustained imagina-
tive effort.
Into this class The Secret Journey, by
James Hanley (Chatto and Windus;
7s. 6d.), appears to fall. It is the second
volume of a trilogy dealing with the
life of an Irish family in an English sea-
port town. The story grows out of the
personalities of two women, Anna
Ragner, a moneylender, and Fanny
Fury, one of her clients, each equally
repellent in her own way. Mrs. Ragner
sits like an obese female spider in her
premises in the poor quarters of Gelton,
issuing loans to the needy, well know-
ing that their need—and her gains—will
be thereby increased. She says: “When
i person gets a loan from me it is as if
ler family, her friends and her relations
lad received it.” She thinks of the
leighboring slum as her “estate.” Mrs.
Fury, who, unknown to her grown-up
family, has contracted a loan with her,
is equally a usurist, though of a dif-
ferent kind. She regards maternal love
as a loan, one entitled to preferred con-
sideration, with repayment at compound
interest. What these two, between them,
do to the family is the substance of the
book. Mrs. Fury is, of course, unable
to meet the repayments of her original
loan of twenty pounds, and there follows
a bewildering succession of renewals,
with incidental charges and increasing
interest rates, until the total has grown
to sixty-five pounds. What has not been
demanded back, or retained in liquida-
tion of the first loan, she has been using
to keep her home going. The old man
gets out early ; he smells trouble in the
offing and escapes to sea. Then, in re-
sponse to the mother’s demands, the un-
married sons are gathered into the net.
Out of the secret loan springs a series of
personal and family crises, the more
cruel in their effect because the subjects
of them, a passionate and unreasoning
brood, meet them blindly. The trouble
extends to the home of a married son
and that of a married daughter whose
steadily-employed husband went surety
for the original twenty pounds. It con-
tinues without rest until its resolution is
attempted by a desperate and bloody
act on the part of the youngest son. A
peculiar thing about the Furys is that
they seem bound together not only by
the usual sense of family but by ties of
mutual hatred.
The book would be easier to read and
would have more strength if if were not
that the characters are so unlikeable.
Mrs. Fury’s sister relieves her of the
burden of a paralytic father in the secret
belief that the old fellow has money.
Peter is his brother’s wife’s lover, and
is not incapable at the same time of
earning a sovereign or two by sharing
the bed of Mrs. Ragner the money-
lender. Maureen is a discontented wife
and an unloving daughter who at length
abandons her husband and infant.
Sheila is unfaithful to both Peter and
her husband. The husband, a trade-
union official, has a cynical outlook on
his occupation, and the son-in-law, a
good-hearted enough man, is otherwise
distasteful. There is the feeling that the
Furys—quite apart from the matter of
the loan —are the bondchildren of evil ;
that there is something monstrous about
them because their creator has refused
them qualities which are their human
right. One character says: “There’s
something sticky and dirty about being
human.” Another: “I believe in nothing
any more. People stink!” That is the
impression given by the entire book ;
one which it is but human to resent.
*l* •{*
STUFFING
The art of inserting judicious padding
is one long known to makers of light
fiction, but it has been left to J. B.
Priestley in They Walk in the City
(Heinemann; Angus and Robertson ,
7s. 6d.) to show how a 500-page novel
can be manufactured from practically
nothing else. The thin little story is that
Rose Salter, mill hand, and Edward
Fielding, clerk to a wool-waste dealer,
scrape acquaintance on the moors out-
side their native Yorkshire town. They
arrange a future meeting, but Edward
fails to keep the appointment through
inadvertently locking himself in his
bathroom. Rose, keenly hurt, and be-
lieving Edward to be a trifler, goes to
London and becomes a teashop girl.
Edward, whose job is without prospects,
comes, through the death of a grand-
father, into possession of sixty pounds.
Equipped with this sum he hastens to
London to seek his Rose. She, having
had an explanatory letter from her
sister, in whom Edward has confided, is
just as anxious to meet him. The author,
however, has his novel in mind. By one
ruse after another, each as obvious and
as worn with use as its predecessor, he
keeps them apart. In the meantime
relevancy is stretched to include every-
thing that can be thought of even re-
motely connected with the business in
hand. Rose’s and Edward’s experiences
in and out of employment and in search
of amusement are followed to the last
thread of interest’. A large number of
characters, all familiar in the pages of
fiction, though garnished with a Priest-
lian touch, is introduced, and many
aspects of London life—equally familiar
—are glanced at with a knowledgeable
air that at length becomes trying. This,
with an assortment of purple patches
ranging in size from a paragraph to a
couple of pages, makes up the book.
Rose and Edward are left enjoying their
long-deferred cuddle after Edward-
strong finish! —has rescued his beloved
from a swell brothel whither she was
wickedly lured the previous night. The
quality of the book shouldn’t deceive an
intelligent schoolgirl, but, no doubt, in
Darkest Suburbia the question “Have
you read Priestley’s latest?” will be a
prelude to what passes for literary dis-
cussion.
* * * *
RABENER
It is possible that the title of Johann
Rabener’s second novel, Please Don’t
Smile (Boriswood ; 7s. 6d.), is a frank
petition. His first, Condemned to Live,
won him a wide public ; this one moves
with a limp. The story is of Joachim
Ruderer, a young novelist who falls in
love with a married woman much older
than himself. She is neither an admirer
of his work nor a believer in the import-
ance of art, but is attracted by his youth
and impassioned wooing. He persuades
her to leave a husband with whom she
is thoroughly discontented, and for a
while they are divinely happy. Then it
is time for Joachim to buckle down
again to writing. Martina can’t under-
stand that she must for a while be con-
tent with second place. There are
quarrels, and Martina turns to dally a
little with a love of other years.
Joachim’s second novel is a failure. Mar-
tina, spiteful over his neglect of her,
taunts him. He writes a successful
musical comedy, but by now has begun
consoling himself with other women for
his disappointment over her. Finding
herself with Child she undergoes an
illegal operation which, to Joachim’s last-
ing remorse, ends her life.
There is quite enough in that to make
a book, but the author at no point seems
imaginatively at grips with his story.
There is something perfunctory about it;
not of a deliberate kind but as if he has
no faith in himself or is not convinced
of the value of his material. He bumps
the story out —it shouldn’t need it —by
giving extended treatment to semi-
irrevelant matters that he would have
merely touched on had he been happy
with his work. He can almost be heard
saying “It’ll help to make a book.” In
places, as in the descriptions of Mar-
tina’s husband and daughter, there is
clever enough work, but it is vamped
up and self-conscious.
This may be a case of a young author,
after a good first novel, allowing him-
self to be bustled too soon into writing
another. He needs a long reflective
and developmental period, but his pub-
lishers are anxious to exploit his suc-
cess, so he writes —to borrow a phrase
from an imaginary review of Joachim's
imaginary novel —a highbrow potboiler.
There is no reason why Johann Rabener
should not again equal his first effort.
* # * *
READERS, BEWARE
Not Too Narrow . . . Not Too Deep,
by Richard Sale (Cassell; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d.), is the story of a number of
convicts escaping in an open boat from
St. Pierre, a French penal settlement in
the West Indies. Its early chapters
promise an adventure story informed
with more than ordinary understanding,
but about a third-way through it takes
a turn. The impression rises—with a
force that would set the pious thumb-
ing backwards for evidence previously
overlooked—-that Jean Cambreau, who
is unknown to the others, and who mys-
teriously joined the boat at the last
moment, is Christ. The quicker minds
among the other characters also suspect
this, and at length tax him. Cambreau
—and through him the author —gently
but firmly denies this. The author, by
implication, accepts responsibility for
him. Who is he then, and by what
power does he remain unafraid in the
midst of storm, predict the happenings
of an eventful voyage, restore the sick
and the halt, and effect regeneration of
character among thieves, homosexuals,
sadists, murderers and spiritual weak-
lings. At the end, the author, after tak-
ing advantage of the reader’s curiosity
to inculcate a moral lesson of dubious
worth, gets out of explaining by a very
arty dodge. Dr. La Salle, who has be-
come Cambreau’s chief intimate, and
who is the last escapee to leave the boat,
slips overboard to swim ashore, and
before striking out into the darkness
calls out very friendlily: “I wanted you
to know, Cambreau, that I have recog-
nised who you are.” He takes his secret
with him. Mr. Sale is a young man who
is at once too good and too clever. This
is his first book. His next will be
examined suspiciously.
F. D. D.
“ Bulletin”
Short Story
Competition
Though Janu-
ary 31 is the clos-
ing date for The
Bulletin’s £55
Short Story
Competition, con-
ditions of which
were announced on last week’s Red
Page, it' is not intended to wait till then
before publishing entries. All con-
sidered to have a chance of winning will
be paid for at Bulletin rates and pub-
lished week by week as they come to
hand. Other manuscripts will be held
until the competition closes, when the
judges will consider all entries.
Stories —there is no limit to the
number a competitor may send in—may
be serious or humorous, and must not
exceed 5000 words. They must be the
competitors’ original work, not pre-
viously published. There is a special
prize for the best brief story, some-
thing not more than 1000 words.
Conditions governing the competition
will be forwarded to any applicant.
Entries, addressed “Short Story Com-
petition,” c/o The Bulletin, Box
252IBB, G.P.O., Sydney, must be in
the office not later than January 31,
1937. If rejected, manuscripts with
which stamps have been sent will be
returned as soon as possible after the
judging.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Days of Contempt: Andre Malraux
(Gollancz; 6s.). Bodily and mental
suffering inflicted on a Communist in
a Nazi political prison. Discounted by
the author’s self-conscious, flowery style.
Married Life: Harold Derden and
H. M. Harwood (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.).
Reprinted from a London daily—and
reads like it, Lightly presents the quarrels
of an imaginary loving pair in a series
of dialogues—over where they will live,
over the furnishing of the house, over
the laying out of the garden and so forth.
Pin Money : Ella Macintyre (Shakes-
peare Head Press, Sydney; 3s. 6d.). Very
pleasing story about station-bred chil-
dren. The bush atmosphere is authentic,
the kids are real, the grown-ups are —
mainly—amiable folk, there are ponies
to ride, dogs to go hunting with and
there are a romance and a happy ending.
The volume is illustrated and nicely
turned out.
ART . . .
South Australian Centenary Celebrities
(published by the author; edition limited
to 120 copies; price, £5 5s.). A book
of 106 large caricatures by Lionel
Coventry, whose work appears regu-
larly on The Bulletin’s Personal page.
It is a superb production ; and the 100-
odd South Australians have been clev-
erly and amusingly captured in smooth,
firm lines. The historian of the future
wanting to know what any of the sub-
jects really looked like will find more
truth in Coventry’s pages than in, say,
a similar collection of photographs.
GENERAL . . .
Education for Industry and Citizen-
ship : Frank G. Sublet (Melb. Uni. Press :
45.). A survey of the aim, development
and problems of industrial education
generally, with some criticism of the
methods of teaching engineering in Brit-
ish universities.
Various Verse.
Cameo.
Queen Cleopatra took the cup
Wherein she did not wish to sup.
Like storm, the cup was gathering gloom,
Darkling with poison and with doom.
She mused on death when death was laid
In must, in silence, and in jade,
Laid seamed and stiff in fold on fold
Of lapping linen and beaten gold;
And, though she did not drink, she prest
The cup's chill lip against her breast.
Queen Cleopatra clutched the stem,
Bruising her fingers on a gem;
She thought of pain, and of pain’s thunder
Battering the living heart asunder.
Gods and men had dared devise
To seal the night upon her eyes;
Life had retreated; memory
Cowered from the death of Antony.
Nevertheless she tensed her throat
As if to utter laughter’s note,
And with an anguished effort laughed,
And then, before she wept, she quaffed.
Over the air's wild echoing
Silence arched a stealthy wing.
N.s.w.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Dream.
1 took you by the armpits, and we leaped
Through open windows out into the night.
Over the garden we spun, our bare feet
drenched
With rain, our foreheads striped with leaves.
Fast down the road, then turning sharply left,
1 drove with both feet hard against the ground,
And, holding you with talon-like fingers, flew
Over a high gate into a treeless land.
(There was no faery star-gleam, but a light,
Strange and grey-tinctured, lit the world). We
flew!
We skimmed the wet grass: then we dipped
like swallows,
And with us went our leaping, double shadow.
You did not speak: your face was a white
stone
That glowed upon my breast ... I saw them
then:
Lining the slope of a low hill they watched,
Their pallid devil-faces turned our way;
They watched • • • I knew they waited there
for us.
I seized your armpits in a deadlier hold,
And hawk-like swooped upon them. They
stood firm:
Their heads were bare, but from their shoulders
fell
Black cloaks, that they flung open wide like
wings
As we came rushing up and drew abreast.
Then all along the line, right up the hill,
Was movement, as when wind stirs ifi the
branches,
Gently, slowly, then with gathering force,
Until the treetops sway and call aloud,
And all the forest and sky are full of sound.
We did not pause, but drove more swiftly by:
On that, quick silence dropped on the dark
rank,
And out into the grey wastes of the night
A voice went pealing, thundering in our ears,
“Wait! Wait!”....We fled still faster from
that cry!
“Wait! Wait!”....We did not turn or stop
our fleeing.
The calling voice was still, but down the air
Faintly, and far behind us, came the whir
Of mighty wing-beats. You moved in my
hands:
I turned to look • • • Against the whitening
sky
Black shapes ascended, bird-like, in our wake.
VICTORIA.
JOHN WHEELER.
Flown Days.
Flown days! Flown days!
Psalms and great song have told your excellent
ways —
Song, song without praise!
Once, ere sweet fate grew tiled,
The rose, the moment and the dawn conspired
All love desired.
Gold that the summer spilled
In sun-deep walks with green-gold murmurs
filled,
Were things we willed.
The wind that touched our hands,
The plunging moon, the tide smoothing the
sands,
Were our commands.
Now, all is flown:
I go, you go, Joy goes, three'walk alone:
The sullen years go down.
“Pity,” my memory says,
“How can I tell you any splendid praise,
Flown days!”
But, should she wish for me,
She knows the hour, and the bower beside the
sea
Where I will be!
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


THE FORBIDDEN DIALOGUE.
It was to have been spoken from a “National broadcasting
station at 9 p.m. on Thursday, September 17, being billed as
“‘Whether the Censor Censors Sufficiently Censoriously,’ a
discussion between Mr. Norman Lindsay and Mr. Max Monte-
sole.” Authority intervened and it was not delivered. Mr.
Lindsay, whose book, “Redheap,” was banned by the censor,
had struck a new form of censorship.
{Music, Dead March in “Saul”)
N.: Hello, Max, what’s that cheery
little thing you’re playing?
M. That, Norman, is the Dead
March in “Saul.”
N. (laughing): Yes, I know, but why?
What’s its significance?
M. It’s for the souls and labors of
the unknown dead!
N. : The unknown dead?
M. : Yes, the authors whose works are
not allowed to be imported into Aus-
tralia —and for the poor authors them-
selves, including some of the world’s ac-
knowledged greater artists. Dead, for
ever dead, so far as Australia is con-
cerned —slain by the censor!
N. : But' why do you say “the unknown
dead”?
M. : Because they are unknown. For
all we are allowed to know, Shakspeare
and Milton may be on the list!
N. : How? I don’t quite follow.
M. : Well, I’ll explain. In view of
the fact that we were going to have this
little discussion to-night, I’ve been try-
ing for three days to obtain an official
list of the books and plays whose impor-
tation into Australia is forbidden
N. : Well, that should have been easy
enough.
M. : Sez you! After spending two toil-
ing hours at the Customs House, and in-
terviewing all sorts of officials, who
passed me ever higher and higher, I was
finally informed that the list of banned
books was also banned to the public! In
no circumstances would I or any other
well-behaved citizen be allowed to see it!
N. : That seems somewhat Gilbertian,
doesn’t it?
M. : Gilbert couldn’t have thought of
it, and I am sure Sullivan, with all his
genius for the absurd and fantastic, could
never have set such a situation to music!
N. : And somewhat unfair, it seems
to me. Forbidden fruit in the orchards
of Oceania, and not even allowed to
know which are the forbidden trees!
M. : Precisely. In simple terms, the
public is not allowed to know what it is
not allowed to read!
N. : But it’s too ridiculous! You really
mean to say you were refused a copy of
this list by the people responsible for
the carrying out of the censor’s edict?
M. : I certainly do, and most emphati-
cally refused! I went so far as to visit
certain Soviet lairs where, I had been in-
formed, these lists were to be obtained —
but no. The Soviet people were charm-
ing, and, though their manners were cer-
tainly more engaging than were those of
the horde of civil servants I had hereto-
fore encountered, they couldn’t, or
wouldn’t, help me. Perhaps they doubted
my Red bona fides, or perhaps things are
pretty blue with the Reds at the moment;
anyhow, out I came as barren as in I
went!
N. : But you know, Max, this sort of
action lends itself to all sorts of serious
and possibly tragic consequences. Why,
.a man might arrive from England or
France or America, step blithely down
the gangway, eager to clasp his fond
family to his bosom, and in the embrace
disclose a copy of Brave New World
sticking out of his hip pocket
M. : Shades of Prohibition!
N. : Exactly, and be immediately
arrested for smuggling and propagating
seditious and immoral matter!
M. Worse than that, this suppression
is bound to lead to all sorts of nefarious
traffic and practice far more immoral
than the original cause. Why, we shall
have sly ruffians walking through the
Customs House with copies of Nietzsche
and Shaw and Huxley and Lawrence
cunningly disguised as Eric, or Little by
Little and the Fifth Form at St. Dominic’s.
And then possibly some arch villain will
stroll ashore with Measure for Measure
made up as Little Lord Fauntleroy.
N. : Measure for Measure ? You
surely don’t suggest that Shakspeare is
banned?
M.: Well, there’s no knowing, since
there’s no knowing who’s on the list!
But if the censor is to be consistent, surely
Shakspeare should be barred. Why, think
of that very disturbing little affair be-
tween Hamlet and Ophelia, of Touch-
stone and Audrey? And what nice girls
could behave as Rosalind and Celia did
in the Forest of Arden, and be believed ?
Talk about hikers!
N.: Let me just think a minute. Yes.
Shelley must be stopped, too
M. : Why, of course —“The Cenci”!
N. : Please ! Don’t let’s talk about it!
And Byron
M. Oh, Norman! And Robbie
Burns
N. : “The Lass that Made the Bed to
Me” —shocking!
M. And Robin Herrick—-Julia’s leg!
N. : And Browning—what about'
Ottima and Sebald in “Pippa Passes”!
M. : And Norman Lindsay!
N. That name Ido know is on the
list!
• M.: And so, ad infinitum, to the Old
Testament! Honestly, Norman, isn’t it
all too childish, too ignorant, too medi-
ceval for words? What is at the bottom
of it all?
N.: Well, so far as I can make out,
the understanding behind it is that
certain books destroy the people s
morality. They are called indecent
books. These are books published by the
best English and American publishers
and read by hundreds of thousands of
decent people in England and America
—all of whose morals have been de-
stroyed by reading them. What a terrible
thought!
M. : And here is another very terrible
thought. The censor himself reads all
these indecent books. They are all in the
Parliamentary Library at Canberra, and
I am told they are much in demand by
our legislators.
N. : I have no doubt at all about that.
M. So here we have Australia pre-
sented with the awful paradox of having
its morality protected by people whose
morality has already been destroyed by
indecent books!
N. Worse than that, think of the
appalling state of the censor’s mind!
Just think of the awful plight of a man
who has to spend his time constantly
searching for indecencies in books and
printed plays. What a horrid perversion
of the act of reading! And what a
martyrdom for the censor himself, w'ho
must go abroad among mankind bearing
the terrible label “I am the man who
spends his days incessantly reading in-
decent books.”
M. : Awful! And just as perturbing is
the fact that the censor is teaching us
some new and altogether amazing
anomalies.- When we glance at the list
of books which we ourselves know have
been censored by him, we discover that
they are all of the highest literary quality,
written by the world’s finest authors and
affirmed by the world’s most sensitive
critics. Ergo, by the censor’s authority,
we must accept the dictum that a high
state of intellectuality is the effect of a
low state of morality. This seems to me
to be very, very strange!
N. It does indeed! In a dim sort of
way I’ve always been given to under-
stand that the objective of civilisation
was to arrive at a high standard of
human But the censor
assures us that this is not so, since he
will not permit us to read the works of
highly intelligent writers. This forces us
to the understanding that to reach a high
state of morality we must remain at a
low state of mentality !
M.: Which takes us much further, be-
cause obviously the censor is not doing
his duty. Books of a high quality of intel-
ligence are being written in Australia at
this moment; and, what is worse, are
being produced here. Australian authors
are being read by large numbers of people
in England and America. Perhaps even
people in Australia are reading them, in
open defiance of the censor. For ex-
ample, no intelligent reader can deny the
high quality of intellect revealed in such
novels as Leslie Mellor’s Quartet, God-
frey Blunden’s No More Reality and
Brian Penton’s Inheritors , which has
just been published in Australia under
the censor’s very nose. I should like to
know what he’s going to do about this
deplorable state of affairs.
N.: Yes, so should I, but it seems to
me that we should shift the accent from
the word indecency to the word intellect,
if we are to understand what the censor
is trying to do.
M. : What do you mean?
N. : Well, obviously, he doesn’t object
to indecency, for you can buy on any
bookstall, in any part of Australia,
periodicals dealing with every crudity of
crime and sexuality that the human
animal is capable of; whereas the books
censored by him include not only a great
number of the world’s greatest master-
pieces, but modern works that perhaps
will remain as masterpieces long after
the censor is in his grave.
M.: Most definitely, Norman —the
censor is not doing his duty. He should
permit no books to enter Australia and
should make it a criminal offence to pro-
duce books here at all! A few years of
that sort of thing and we should arrive
at the censor’s Nirvana —an Australia in
that high state of morality and intellectu-
ality as practised by the natives on the
Ombompopo River!
N.: Summing up, it seems to me that
we can reduce the censorship of books
and published plays to a very simple
equation. If the Australian needs
censor he needs a feeding-bottle. If he
doesn’t need a censor, and puts up with
him, he darn well deserves it!
M.: Of course, after all, it’s always
eventually up to the people of a country
or continent to get what they want, what
they really desire —just as most indi-
viduals get out of life what they give to
life. If the people of Australia are con-
tent to run their little course as nicely
shepherded sheep, just as sheep shall they
run; if they desire to preserve their in-
dividuality—their ego, let us say—to keep
in touch with the broader, older centres
of civilisation, they must cease to be
sheep and to be shepherded. They must
think for themselves, demand for them-
selves —and if they think in sufficient
numbers and sufficiently sincerely they’ll
get what they think they want.
{Music from Dead March in “Saul ”
swells out louder and louder.)
EVERY OVERSEAS COUNTRY
Is Concentrating on
the Development of
its own Resources
By “AUSTRALIAN.”
The majority of people will readily affirm
the principle, and right, of any country to
create employment for its own people. If this
principle is admitted, and who, on broad
grounds, can refute it, it matters little what
type or form the employment takes, so long
as the natural conditions are there to make it
a sound and logical undertaking. Some
countries are, through larger areas and more
varied resources, more fortunately placed than
others, inasmuch that they are able to create
greater and more varied avenues of employ-
ment. Australia is thrice blessed in this direc-
tion. Here we have a country that contains,
or will grow, anything and everything that
Man, even in these days of diversified wants,
requires. Limestone and Gypsum, for instance,
are abundantly distributed throughout Australia.
What more logical sequel, then, that in these
days when Cement is such an indispensable
part of modern conditions, we as a Nation
should make use of these lavishly-given sup-
plies of raw products and manufacture our own
Cement?
But, even when Nature is in bountiful mood,
anything to be won from her is hard earned.
The Falkiners and the MacArthurs, pioneers of
our wonderful wool industry, found it so.
Other notable pioneering ventures likewise had
to face many trials and initial difficulties. The
Cement Companies of this country had no
easier path to follow. They, too, have blazed
trails, and to such good purpose that through-
out the various States there are to-day many
flourishing and happy townships and communi-
ties where a few years ago it was primeval
bush.
Built Up
Under Protection.
As with other Primary and essential Second-
ary Industries, one of the greatest and most
essential factors in the establishment and de-
velopment of the Cement Industry in this
country has been Protection. Why deny it this
safeguard now? Apart altogether from the
value of the Cement Industry, a very vital
and National Principle is at stake. Australia
badly needs the development of many more
such Industries. They can only be estab-
lished by and through Protection. It is the
soundest and most commonsense form of en-
couragement that can be given to them.
This work of Pioneering new Industries and
the expansion of existing ones must go on.
From a National point of view nothing else
will pay such handsome dividends in security,
independence and distribution of wages. Every
other country in the world is concentrated
upon developing its own resources and, in this
way, creating stable employment for its people.
In their case, Protection is regarded as the one
logical way by which this can be done. Do
these other countries hesitate to impose tariff
walls with which to protect and nurture their
established and growing industries? Of a
certainty, they do not. Why, then, should
Australia deny herself the same privilege?
Why, then, should our National Door be open
to all and sundry so that they may enter with
their goods, free of restraint of any kind,
and at the expense of essential Australian Indus-
tries? Here we have a country, one of the
few in the world, where there is an enormous
scope for new and extended manufacturing
interests . . . where there is a very definite
need not only to supply local market, but
to help create a larger one in terms of in-
creased population.
Critical State of
International Affairs.
One would need to be a super-optimist to
view the present critical state of International
affairs with any degree of equanimity. Whether
they be mere froth and bubble or more
sinister in their consequences does not, for the
moment, matter. Beyond any doubt they are
disturbing and topsy-turvy, and even in their
present state their reaction on the world in
general, and Australia in particular, is serious.
In the light of this, what possible reason is
there for exposing any Australian Industry to
further restrictions and discouragements? That
it should be even remotely suggested that tariffs
are to be altered so as to adversely affect
important and necessary Australian Industry,
such as the Cement Industry, is incomprehen-
sible. Yet that is the definite possibility which
the Australian Cement Industry will face at the
end of November next, unless the Federal Gov-
ernment amends its decision to. allow entry of
British Cement Duty Free. In the circum-
stances, is it too much to ask, and to expect,
the Federal Government to review its decision?
Apropos to the whole question, might we refer
the members of the Federal Government to a
Statement contained in a book entitled “The
Intelligent Man’s Guide through World Chaos,”
by G. D. Cole, Reader in Economics in the
University of Oxford, and a Member of the
Economic Advisory Council, published in 1933.
Discussing the question of the possibility of
constructing an Economic Unit of the British
Empire, Mr. Cole said:
“There may be rather more possibility
of some reduction in the exceptionally high
tariff now in force in Australia, because
of Australia’s less advantageous position for
increasing her population or widening the
range of her Industrial Production. But it
is fantastic to think of even Australia as
admitting British goods free of Duty or
allowing her own Industrial development to
be held back in order to give Great Britain
a larger preference.”
That was three years ago. To-day the need
for encouragement and Protection for Aus-
tralia’s own industries is more imperative than
ever.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■ ■■■■■
n
HWilMBWI
m
| km
V> - -: ? »' 133 pMT
.... ., - r *
, 11 ■
s ■
s .,7.-
m
I
■
*
9
£5
: ■ i
•■/■::'-•' s .S- » 1 9
;•
■
' I
m
mm
m
Ml
Ml
mm
:■ :•;
m IH
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsfield.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2954.
September 23, 1936.
MORE THAN SUFFICIENT.
“Though a Fascist bloc has been formed and the Spanish civil war has become more murderous than ever and Germany and Russia are hurling insults and threats at one
another, Mr. Eden still has faith in his ‘new Locarno conference.’ ”
“That’s only one performance. There’s a lot more going on. How about coming in?”
“No thanks. Been there once. Once was plenty.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months , £1 45.; 6 months, I2s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
NO USE BLAMING LANG.
One striking feature of the unemployment position is
that it is worst in the State which is generally
accounted the richest and is certainly the most popu-
lous. And it has been worst there for two years.
Trade-union returns for 1935 published by the
Commonwealth Statistician show 20.6 p.c. of un-
employed in N.S.W., 17.6 p.c. in S.A., 15.9 p.c. in
Tasmania, 14 p.c. in Victoria, 13.4 p.c. in Westralia
and 8.7 p.c. in Queensland, the average for Australia
being 16.5 p.c. For the June quarter of the present
year N.S.W. had 16.2 p.c., Tasmania 12.7 p.c., S.A.
11 p.c., Victoria 10.6 p.c., Westralia 9.2 p.c. and
Queensland 8.5 p.c., the average being 12.8 p.c.
In S.A., where the onset of the depression was
preceded by very bad years for farmers and pastor-
alists, there were 30.3 p.c. of trade-unionists out of
work in the September quarter of 1933, when N.S.W.
had 28.8 p.c. out. So a comparison of June, 1936,
figures with those for September, 1933, is greatly in
favor of S.A.
Yet N.S.W. has advantages denied to S.A. and
to other States with far better employment figures.
Cheap coal of good quality is only one of them. N.S.W.
grows more wool than any two other States (to 1935-36
exports valued at £52,304,200 Australian it contri-
buted £22,108,000) ; it leads also in production of
mutton and lamb, tallow, wheat (in 1935-36, after
reserving sufficient for 39.4 p.c. of the Australian popu-
lation, it exported wheat to the value of £4,210,900
Australian out of a total of £14,018,900), number of
hands employed in factories (in 1934-35, 175,033 out
of 449,598) and value of factory production
(£61,430,000 out of £143,527,197). Alone among the
States, it has an important group of iron and steel
industries which are thriving amazingly—Broken Hill
Prop, has declared 1935-36 profits at £850,000 and is
paying p.c. dividends. For 12 months at least,
Broken Hill has been as prosperous as it ever was. For
two years at least, the depression scarcely touched the
North Coast and South Coast dairy-farmers.
And N.S.W. has benefited more from the Bruce
loan conversions than all the other States. The
Queensland Premier gave the details in his Budget
speech ; of total annual savings in overseas interest
and exchange, N.S.W.’s share amounts to 57.8 p.c.—
£1,875,859 out of £3,249,826. It has also been spend-
ing more loan money than all the other States (in
1934-35, £9,724,400 out of £18,635,000; and its Mr.
Spooner blithely explains that his Government was
supplied with £12,000,000 that year and £10,500,000
in 1935-36); and it has carried the One Big City
policy to greater lengths than any other State. Perhaps
these are the main troubles.
Throughout the depression the State with the
greatest measure of decentralisation and the largest
number of ports in being has had the smallest pro-
portion of unemployed. It is a very arresting fact
that would repay examination, but N.S.W. politicians
never have any time for such studies, being chiefly
occupied in doing things in and about the Big City.
There was a Minister of Local Government who
was different. Just on four years ago he introduced
a measure (“a small bill of four clauses”) empowering
shire and municipal councils “to acquire or provide
land for agricultural holdings, not exceeding 50 acres
in area, or, if exceeding 50 acres, of an unimproved
capital value not exceeding £500.” The Minister (Mr.
Jackson) said:
The plan emanates from the. Shires Association. U
has been examined by that body, is supported by its
members and by representative groups within the muni-
cipal councils and is based on a principle which has
been thoroughly tested in England. There municipal and
shire councils own 450,000 acres, the bulk of which
is let out in small holdings.
He added that the shire councillors behind the scheme
were practical land men who had promised to take
a personal interest in the small-holders once the latter
got on their blocks. But that never happened.
The Minister went out of office. To all intents
and purposes, his Act was flung after him. It has
not been put into operation. And the other day
Mr. Spooner saw fit to castigate the shires for being
“unwilling to pursue a borrow and squander policy, ’
as their president called it, aimed at giving temporary
donkey work. In aggrieved accents the Minister
pointed out that they are not so badly off as they
were in 1932: “arrears of rates in the various muni-
cipalities,” when last recorded, were only £1,211,000.
City and suburban municipalities are not un-
willing to borrow and squander. The Government
having struck trouble with its own followers because
15,000 single men were suddenly placed on the dole,
which is 6s. 6d. a week, sympathetic suburban councils
hurried improvised programmes of “works”—the Gov-
ernment finds part of the loan and interest, plus a
bonus for something or other.
Willoughby discovered that it could spend an-
other £lOO,OOO, and so did the Warringah shire.
Waverley mentioned £200,000, Kogarah about the
same. And the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage
Board has just raised a loan of £1,000,000, the first
of a litter, having been authorised by the Govern-
ment (and the Loan Council) to get £15,000,000 for
“works.” The initial operation was preceded by the
transfer of £11,450,000 of Water Board debt from the
ratepayers to general taxpayers, and part of the
£1,000,000 is to go to overseas manufacturers whose
tenders were preferred to those of Australian manu-
facturers in the same line of business.
By virtue of these proceedings and others of a
like nature, “the Budget is to be balanced this year.”
This will certainly be a change, for the admitted
deficit last year of the one Government that has not
conceded salary-restoration to its civil servants was
£1,687,000 —again more than those of the rest of the
States reporting deficits, the total losses (less the S.A.
and W.A. surpluses) being £2,436,000 —and people
will believe it when they see it done.
It is still the U.A.P.- fashion to blame Lang for
everything, but that will no longer wash. Lang was
shot out in June, 1932, and four years and three
months ought to be long enough for a Staie like
N.S.W. to get over even eighteen months of Lang. It
is the Stevens Government’s measures that have visibly
failed. Others will have to be tried if the country is
not to drift into further serious trouble.
Development of neglected ports and the country
about them might be substituted for shifting sand,
building clubhouses and digging “Olympic swimming
pools.” And if employers could contract out of 50 p.c.
of the unemployed-relief tax, now lOd. in the £l, many
unemployed would get jobs in callings for which they
have been trained, or, being young, might be trained
instead of being condemned interminably to donkey
work. Many more could be placed on subsistence
farms if the Local Government Small Holdings Act
were rescued from the perishing and made a live
thing. Some, if they impressed neighbors as being
grafters, could get seasonal toil that would keep them
going ; others might graduate to bigger and better
holdings. At the worst, subsistence farms outlast
"works,” which always cut out and often leave nothing
but debts behind.
Maoriland's Miracle-workers.
Maoriland Labor spent some pleasant months watch-
ing the financial measures of its predecessors bring in
a surplus and improvising legislation aimed at usher-
ing in the millennium. Its troubles are now be-
ginning.
Trade-unionists denied the 40-hour week have
turned nasty. A recent exhibition was the refusal
of wharf laborers at Auckland to work after 5 p.m.,
the result being that the Monterey carried on to Aus-
tralia 400 tons of cargo consigned to Auckland—
part of it was fruit—and left behind Melbourne cargo
that had had to be shifted so that the Auckland stuff
might be reached. There have been other examples of
nastiness, and Mr. Fraser, the Minister of Marine,
warned the malcontents last week in agonised accents
that “if trade-unionists failed to co-operate with their
Government the Government might crash.”
Addressing the Wellington Trades and Labor
Council, Mr. Armstrong, the Minister of Labor, spoke
in a different strain. He pointed out that the Arbitra-
tion Court had granted the 40-hour week in 55 of
84 cases thus far dealt with.
When the Court has finished its work, say in a year’s
time, if any industries have been refused the 40-hour
week that ought to have received it, that can be remedied
by Act of Parliament. I hope the Labor movement
will soon be well enough organised to take control of
industry and determine what hours shall be worked
without reference to any Court.
This kind of talk merely adds to the worries of wage-
payers, who already feel that they are expected to
perform impossibilities.
Except in Government departments, the 40-hour
week did not take general effect till September 1.
According to Mr. Fraser, “the main reason for its
introduction was to help the unemployed to get work.”
In this it will doubtless succeed —in Government
departments, municipal undertakings and perhaps in a
few sheltered trades; but in industries exposed to
competition the opposite seems more likely to result.
The fact that, after a few weeks of the 40-hour week
in France, the Australian Government has had to raise
its contribution to the cost of the Villers-Bret. war
memorial from £lO,OOO to £16,000 is not exactly
reassuring.
There was a Parliamentary debate on unemploy-
ment in June. Mr. Semple, the Minister of Works,
said that when he took over in November there were
13,000 men on public works and he had increased the
number to 17,000. (He has furnished the additional
information that in August they averaged “more than
17s. a day,” and some are getting “235. or 245.,” and
that 3000 more are to be put on.) Mr. Armstrong,
for his part, claimed that the Government, besides
substantially increasing relief-workers’ wages, had
made “sustenance” regulations far more liberal and
set up conditions which had resulted in there being
“a much larger number of people in permanent
employment to-day than when the last Government
went out of office.”
We have done more in the direction of bringing
about a permanent solution of unemployment than the
last Government was likely to do if it had remained
till its members were as old as Methuselah.
The “Monthly Abstract” issued from the Census
and Statistics Office does not support these claims.
It says:
The number of registered unemployed males on the
books of the Labor Department on August 1, 1936, was
45,045, an increase of 2106 over the total on July 4
and of 2414 over the number on August 3, 1935. The
number of men engaged on rationed employment under
Scheme No. 5 has fallen from 25,387 on August 3, 1935,
to 15,945 on August 1, 1936; the number of men
receiving sustenance without work has increased from
14,438 on the former date to 26,296 on the latter
date.... The number of men in full-time employment
with the aid of subsidies from the Employment Pro-'
motion Fund was 8958 on August 1, 1936—a decrease
of 8452 from the total on August, 1935 (17,410). These
men are not included in the statistics of registered
unemployed.
All-round increases of pensions (and taxes) and what
the Minister of Finance calls “the provision of high-
grade reasonably-priced residences” by the Ministry
of Housing (to which £3,500,000 is to be made avail-
able within 12 months “by direct use of the public
credit”) may make a difference ; but there are doubters
in this field also.
Australia in October, 1929, placed its destinies in
the hands of a Labor party which had been so long
in opposition that only two of the 12 Ministers, both
recent recruits from State politics, had had Minis-
terial experience—and they were out of the job before
long. Every member of the Government that is trying
to perform miracles in Maoriland is new to office.
There may be something in elective Ministries after all.
"Hush, Hush" Again.
Early last week the Government at Canberra was
“observing the strictest secrecy about the proposals for
renewing trade with Japan.” Mr. Lyons “declined to
give any indication of the nature of any proposals
from the Japanese Government or any decision reached
by the Cabinet.” Below this newspaper report was a
cable from Tokio saying that Mr. Murai, the Japanese
Consul-General, had at the instance of his Govern-
ment rejected the Lyons Government’s proposals and
offered instead the bartering of rayons and cottons
for wool.
Mr. Gullett, for his part, declared that Australia
had submitted proposals. Japan had replied and
submitted other proposals. Negotiations “took time
to complete.” This cannot be disputed, since the nego-
tiations in which Mr. Gullett has been engaged have
been going on for 20 months, nor has he achieved
even a formula on which agreement might be based.
The Tokio statement he pronounced “definitely in-
accurate.” This is the nearest to definiteness he or
any other member of his Government has got.
Meanwhile, wool sales have been proceeding in
London, South Africa and Brisbane. U.A.P. news-
papers are rejoicing, for the “London sales opened
firm,” but brokers offered 33,000 fewer bales —a 25
p.c. reduction —than at the opening sale last year.
Even at that there was a 12 p.c. carry-over, despite the
fact that Maoriland wools, which are not affected by
the Japanese embargo, were included in the auction.
The distinction between the Japanese attitude to Aus-
tralian and Maoriland supplies was emphasised when
“coarse crossbreds” —Maoriland —went up 5 p.c. to
10 p.c. Wool of even medium coarseness stays down
or has to be withdrawn in Australia.
Brisbane sales saw the inauguration of a new
policy on the part of selling agents. Customers were
told through the press the number of bales offered ;
told also that “bidding was keen,” that “prices were
firm at Sydney rates,” and that there had been with-
drawals. But they were not precisely informed how
much of the wool had found buyers. The “Courier-
Mail” was reduced to “estimating” that “more than
10,000 of 14,211 bales catalogued were sold.” It added:
“The passed-in lines were largely of the average types,
which in the past were bought freely by Japan.”
At the sales in South Africa Japanese buyers
swept everybody else out of the market. Again
U.A.P. newspapers rejoice, for Japanese buying in
S. Africa is supposed to be likely to increase
the demand for Australian merino among Bradford
and Continental buyers. Bigger humbug was never
written. The very press which publishes it provides
the answer —wools not sold at Australian auctions are
mainly those which Japan alone buys, as a rule.
S. African wool contains such a proportion of fine
blending lines and the quantities of Australian medium
types are relatively so small that Japanese buying
at the Cape cannot improve the position for growers
with average or below-average descriptions to sell.
But it has sent S. African prices 15 p.c. above Aus-
tralian. . „ , . . „
If Mr. Gullett’s “negotiations drag on his Gov-
ernment will almost certainly be asked to provide
“interest-free finance to enable growers to withhold
wool from a falling market”—a Westrahan proposal,
held in reserve by request. Meanwhile, Parliament
remains curiously inert, though Mi. Curtin has made
some remarks which cannot be gainsaid.
What are we td say of the Government's sending
special trade missions to Japan, headed in one instance
by a senior Minister? Japan was asked to buy Aus-
tralian goods and has done so. Did Mi. Lyons expect
trade to be a one-way traffic —ships to leave Japan m
ballast and return laden with Australian produce.
But so long as the crazy dispute is unsettled it won’t
help the Australian grazier much to know that there
is a lone politician at Canberra talking commonsense.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Twenty-six Thousand.
Figures elicited by Senator Sampson explain why
recruiting sergeants and tanks have been seen and
military bands heard in city streets
According to the Minister of Defence, who is “a
good party man,” a militia army of 35.000 is “the
minimum necessary for training in peace and to provide
for expansion in war.” Unfortunately, all the drum-
beating and busbies cannot induce the necessary
minimum to enlist. On June 30, as Senator Pearce
admitted, only 26,295 'were on the strength, and of
these only 11,221 were infantry. There were 9916
. enlistments during the year and 10,678 resignations
and discharges.
When the last Defence estimates were before Par-
liament, a space of two hours was allotted for their
discussion. Mr. Parkhill felt it necessary to devote
21 minutes to his exposition of the present programme.
The R.A.N. is to be brought to the point where it
will have three cruisers—two now obsolescent are to
have their armament reconditioned. There will be one
flotilla leader, two destroyers, two sloops and a
survey ship in commission at the end of the year.
Including the sloops and the survey ship,
this is one vessel per 1250 miles of coast-
line. Three more fuel tanks have been put in at
Darwin—they will give the place 72,000 tons of oil,
which doesn’t go very far in a war. Two oil tanks
are being built in Sydney on a site near the mouth of
the harbor and a couple more 9.2 in. guns are to
be put somewhere. And Duntroon is to keep about
55 cadets in training.
Mr. Parkhill is a good party man, and Mr. Curtin
is a good party man, and each agrees that his plan
of defence is very like the other gentleman’s. Aus-
tralia will be satisfied with neither. But it has learned
with pleasure that no remarks of politicians have
engendered that four companies—Broken Hill Prop.,
Broken Hill Associated Smelters, Imperial Chemical
Industries and General Motors-Holden’s—are forming
another to manufacture aero engines and aircraft.
Is Our London Position Sound?
Mr. Casey’s references in the Budget to the over-
seas trade position will not pass without challenge in
Parliament.
The favorable commodity balance increased from
£16,000,000 sterling for 1934-35 to £22,000,000 sterling
for 1935-36. The slight extent to which the trade
balance failed to provide the £23,000,000 necessary to
meet our overseas interest bill was made good by the
migration of capital from overseas.
That is all; and, judged by any standards, it is
unsatisfactory. The whole question of Australia’s
external solvency is dismissed in one airy sentence.
Here is a Canute asking the waves to retire.
Mr. Casey should be, and no doubt will be, asked
during the Budget debate:
(1) What amount of capital migrated from abroad,
last year, and does his reference take into account
payment of dividends to overseas shareholders in Aus-
tralian companies? ,
(2) What are his views on the Commonwealth Bank
Board’s statement that London credits, though sufficient
for immediate requirements, are not strong enough to
bear the strain of an emergency?
(3) Is it a fact, as reported, that London funds
(including the note issue reserve) have fallen from
£65,000,000 to £38,000,000 in two years?
Some time ago Mr. Casey issued a statement
estimating that outward flow of capital as a result
of the coronation would be £4,500,000, against an
inward flow of £1,500,000. What provision has been
made to replace the net loss of £3,000,000? None.
An interesting angle on Mr. Casey’s financing is
that it is dependent upon an increase of imports. He
estimates customs and excise revenue at £43,100,000,
compared with £41,437,000 received in 1935-36 and
with £34,254,842 in 1933-34. Yet his Government has
taken measures —very drastic in the case of Japan
and the U.S.A. —to reduce imports.
"A Bad-customer Country."
Mr. Gullett has stopped talking about “good-” and
“bad-customer countries” since he smote one of the
best with a hostile tariff, but it has been remarked
that he has never applied one expression or the other
to the Netherlands East Indies.
Our nearest foreign neighbor, the N.E.I. buys
little from Australia compared with what Australia
buys from the N.E.1., and it buys no wool at all. For
the five years to June 30, 1935 (separate figures for
1935-36 have not been published), its exports to
Australia actually exceeded the value of the Japanese
exports oven which such a tremendous fuss has been
made. This is hardly credible, but the facts can be
found in the Commonwealth’s Overseas Trade
Bulletin for 1934-35, pages 592-596 and 598-600):
Australian Trade with the N.E.I. and Japan
(In Sterling Values).
' ■ —lmports from —> Exports to
N.E.I. Japan. N.E.I. Japan.
1930- .. £4,011,194 £2,379,558 £1,436,505 £9,500,499
1931- .. 2,648,948 2,396,734 1,352,898 11,659,012
1932- .. 2,930,951 3,536,581 1,195,518 11,468,459
1933- .. 3,960,233 3,676,737 1,149,167 13,906,256
1934- .. 4,390,327 4,624,740 1,186,023 12,095,514
£17,941,653 £16,614,350 £6,320,111 £58,629,740
Nowadays most of the tea consumed in Australia
comes from the N.E.1., but there is no talk of trade-
diversion in this instance. Yet a policy that would
result in the drinking of more light Australian wine
and beer and less Java tea (it is largely taken with
meat, a dyspeptic mixture) would be better for the
nation’s health as well as its pocket.
Aliens Grabbing Australian Fisheries.
E. H. Angelo, M.L.C., has made some extraordinary
statements as to the wealth that is being snapped up
by foreigners in North Westralian waters.
Mr. Angelo has been associated with North
Westralia nearly all his life. He was M.L.A for
Gascoyne for many years, and the North Province
which he represents in the Upper House takes in all
the northern outports and roadsteads from Shark Bay
up. Addressing his fellow-members, he said:
There is a Japanese trawler operating in the vicinity
of Wallal. She has been there a long time. I was
told by the captain of a Singapore boat that a Japanese
vessel goes there every month and fills up from the
trawler with fish.
For the Singapore market, no doubt. As for
whalers:
Fourteen vessels are operating in territorial waters
within 30 miles of Carnarvon. I have seen all of them
myself. I have heard that one fleet of several vessels
acknowledges having caught 600 whales within three
weeks.
A Norweigian fleet was seen near Point Cloates.
This has been there three or four weeks longer than
the other fleet and has probably caught 1500 whales. I
should not be surprised if these two fleets altogether
had not taken about 2000 whales, valued at £200,000.
It is a very humiliating and, to some extent,
hazardous way of letting foreigners do in Australia
what Australians should be doing for themselves.
Marine industries that Australians pioneered and have
carried on for many years are also in danger.
A Scottish doctor is being brought from New-
foundland, where he has been Director of Fisheries
Research, to take charge of the Commonwealth
fisheries investigations, and a vessel now building in
Melbourne is to be placed at his service. Every little '
helps, but a great deal more will be needed if
Australia is not to lose permanently the wealth that
exists in such variety and profusion in the seas that
wash its coasts, and to become habituated to the
sight of enterprising foreigners establishing themselves
a little beyond the three-mile limit.
When goldmining was in a bad way exemption
from income tax was granted to the industry. A
similar concession should be guaranteed to trawling,
pearling and whaling parties, British as well as Austra-
lian, for a term of years. Two conditions might be
specified: (1) The employment of boats that would
be useful in war-time and (2) the placing of at least
portion of these auxiliary craft at the disposal of the
R.A.N. for certain exercises at certain times.
" / ' ' ' _ •
The Tariff and Prices.
The Tariff Board reports, among other things, that
“many Australian industries are now able to sell their
products.at prices little above the costs of duty-free
imports from the U.K.” Some do better still.
The rubber industry, for instance. Retail prices
of tyres and tubes are lower in Australia than in the
U.K., Canada and the U.S.A. “This,” the board says,
“is a tribute to the efficiency of the local industry,
especially in view of the fact that it pays duty on the
principal raw materials, and carries the cost of distri-
bution to all parts of the Commonwealth.”
This section of the report will make it difficult
for politicians to get away with the story that “primary
producers” are entitled to an “amendment” of the
Constitution that will admit of people being hit in
the pocket by boards, since the p.ps. have to pay
prices bloated by “the iniquitous tariff.”
Taking It Out of Borderers.
From the South Australian side:
I live within a few miles of the boundary between S.A.
and Victoria. Last week I had to send 15s. to a man on the
Victorian side. It cost me sevenpence—sixpence for exchange
and a penny for a Victorian duty stamp, and I wasted another
penny on an Adelaide duty stamp. I had to send a telegram
to the same man —Is. 4d., though the message could have been
sent hundreds of miles within my own State for a shilling.
I cannot cart farm produce on my own truck across the
border without being liable to be held up and. questioned
by the police. No notice would be taken if I carted the same
goods by horse team. If I drive over the border to pay a visit
to friends, I am liable to strike trouble unless I obtain a
visiting motorist’s permit. It counts for nothing that my
windscreen bears a sticker showing that I have complied with
the law which runs a few miles away.
Government railway departments take advantage of the
border to do a little extorting on their own account. If I
send a parcel across by rail there is a minimum charge to
the S.A. concern for taking it a few miles, and another
minimum charge to the Victorian show for carrying it another
few miles to its destination —in short, I have to pay exactly
double what carriage of the same goods the same distance
would cost in either State alone. Should that parcel become
damaged in transit, it is waste of time to put in a claim.
The reply from each department would be: “We have no
proof that the damage was done on our side of the border.”
I was a member of a party that crossed the border for
a hare drive. Arrived at the appointed paddock, we were met
by a Victorian constable. “Show us your gun licenses,” he
said. We produced them, and he shook his head: “Sorry,
South Australian licenses are no good here. You must have
Victorian licenses before you may fire a shot.”
And so it goes on—humbugging annoyances, extortions
and impositions without end, merely because I live near a
State border. And I suppose it’s the same near the Vic.-
N.S.W. and N.S.W.-Queensland boundary lines. Then inter-
state jealousy steps in and passes transport laws which
divert traffic and stop good? from taking the most convenient
route. The cure for that lies in putting all transport under
Commonwealth control, and making the laws dealing with
vehicles and traffic uniform throughout , the Commonwealth.
The reform might be accelerated if the banks made exchange
on cheques uniform and the P.M.G.’s Department ceased to
practise extortion in the matter of inter-State telegrams.
Our Masters the Censors.
Questions asked by the Leader of the Opposition
in the House of Representatives:
Is the Postmaster-General aware that a Mr. W. J.
Thomas, leader of a delegation to Russia, and editor
of the official organ of the Friends of the Soviet Union,
Which the Government is trying to have declared illegal,
has been provided with two sessions on A-class radio
stations to make propaganda speeches on behalf of the
Communist party? Is he aware that Professor John
Anderson, a member of the Fourth International, has
been provided with time to reply to Mr. Thomas, and
to put forward propaganda on behalf of his organisa-
tion?
Very interesting, but incomplete. Mr. Curtin should
have asked another:
Is it also a fact that a dialogue on the book censor-
ship, prepared for A.8.C., at its request, by Mr. Max
Montesole and Mr. Norman Lindsay, whose book
Redheap' was banned by the censor, has itself been
banned, after a date had been arranged for it by A.8.C.,
on the ground that “they were both against the censor
and the talk didn’t give the censor any chance of reply”?
Mr. Curtin’s questions have not been answered.
The answer to the other would have to be “Yes.”
Mr. Lindsay’s comment to a “Daily Telegraph”
reporter was “Perhaps there’s a fellowship among
officials to prevent our criticising any of them.” This
observation was only a few hours old when curious
confirmation came from Canberra as a result of a
letter intended for a Mr. Ward who is Treasurer
Casey’s secretary being delivered to the Mr. Ward who
is member for East Sydney. Mr. Ward, M.H.R.,
promptly divulged information thus conveyed to him,
being that sort of politician. It revealed that evidence
to be submitted by the Commonwealth Statistician to
the Banking Commission was subject to the censor-
ship of another official, the Secretary to the Treasury.
Not only was it subject to this censorship, but Dr.
Wilson stated in a letter to the Treasurer that he
expected it would be “blue-pencilled” by the Secre-
tary to the Treasury.
Many will consider that this method of presenting
official evidence to the Banking Commission makes
that evidence worthless. It is the evidence not of the
official presenting it but of someone else who may
not be subject to examination and cross-examination.
The incident indicates the length to which
departmentalism is carried in Canberra. Along with
the A.B.C. impertinences, it shows that the idea of
censorship is deeply rooted in the official mind.
Our cumbrous system of government is breeding
petty tyrants, and their tyranny is exercised capri-
ciously, as is the case with tyrannies in general.
Slums on the Run.
“M.H.L.”: Slum-abolition begins to have a Mel-
bourne meaning. Some of the first 46 homes on the
Vic. Government’s rehousing settlement at Fishermen’s
Bend are about to receive tenants.
There have been more than 500 applicants for
the 46 houses. This will give the Housing Investiga-
tion and Slum Abolition Board such a wide choice
that there should be little risk of creating more slums
in another place. Applicants will move to new houses
in a locality where hard-working people occupy model
homes; these families are buying on long-term
arrangements with the Vic. Savings Bank.
In common justice to the people already there,
newcomers selected for the Government houses should
be of the type that will take a similar pride in the
suburb. The board has the further responsibility of
choosing from among the more deserving applicants
those at present quartered in the slummiest premises.
And, more difficult still, very little slum furniture
should be permitted to travel.
This first job accomplished, Mr. Pye’s board will
begin its public hearings. Preliminary inquiries and
assessments are expected to centre in North Mel-
bourne, where some families are living under appalling
conditions. Meanwhile, slum landlords in North
Melbourne, Fitzroy and Collingwood are hurriedly
attending to tenants’ ancient wants. The board should
not accept temporary repairs as promises of per-
manent improvement.
Six Miles from the G.P.O.
“E.H.M.”: I live in Haberfield, about six miles from
the Sydney G.P.O. On Saturday afternoons and
Sundays you can send a telegram to Haberfield —
which in this respect is in the same category with
other Sydney suburbs —but not over a telegraph-line.
No, the G.P.O. method of reaching the Haber-
field fastnesses is by bicycle or tramcar. Therefore,
it charges Bd. porterage on every telegram, as well as
ordinary rates.
Urgent telegrams can’t be sent to Haberfield or
other near-in suburbs unless the sender is willing for
them to lie for up to a day and a half in the archives.
Persons living in the nearer Sydney suburbs who
intend to die, get married or indulge in other activities
which bring revenue to the G.P.O. must take care
not to do it at the week-end.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“P.M.”: The rising generation of Vic-
torian police are not well acquainted with
the bush phrases of a few years back.
The other night the police raided a
Gippsland pub, and asked a visitor to ex-
plain his bona fides. “I’m a drover ; been
on the road all day,” was the reply.
“Where did you stay last night?” “At
the Star Hotel.” “You can’t put a rough
tale over me,” retorted the smart young
John ; “there’s no pub of that name any-
where along the road.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: According to the “special
representative of the ‘Age’ ” in the Can-
berra press gallery, Archdale Parkhill
has been trying to address the House of
Reps, with an English intonation since
he was knighted, but the result has been
discouraging. “Mr. Bruce,” adds the
commentator acidly, “was able to handle
the Oxford accent successfully, but in
the case of Parkhill it was almost like
Bing Crosby trying to sing in opera.”
Still, if there really is such a thing as an
“Oxford accent” (which I have always
doubted) and if our last P.M. but one
could handle it successfully, it would be
interesting to know where he acquired
it. Bruce, of course, was at Cambridge.
* * * *
“Urarnao”: To emphasise their dis-
approval of a milkman who refused
to join his co-craftsmen in discon-
tinuing the afternoon delivery of his
wares, the milk-ohs of Whangarci
(M.L.) staged a novel demonstration.
Lining up in a procession, they followed
the recalcitrant along his milky way, and
wherever he stopped they, too, halted
and played on assorted musical instru-
ments. These proceedings so enlivened
the afternoon that the following day
business was almost suspended in order
that none of the fun might be missed. At
this stage, however, the police took a
hand by forbidding anything in the
nature of an encore.
* * * *
“Tristram R.”: I wasn’t surprised to
read that King Edward had a good time
in Greece: they seemed to have a warm
spot in their hearts for us when H.M.A.S.
Australia was in Athens last June. Ex-
tract from a cabaret ad.: —
In honor de sailors of the British Royal
Fioot.... Reduced price to all drinks and
changing daily of programme.
A cafe advertised: “Best of service gerls
waiters.” A certain ambiguity about the
wording of this kept me away, but my
friends informed me that domatoes salid,
han and clips were all on the menu. A
rival cafe made it more alluring: “Hqre
the best place for refreshments and nice
time.”
* * * *
“Leirum”: The modern forked seat
of lady riders may have deprived artists
of one source of inspiration (B. 5/8/’36),
but there are others. For instance, the
native women on Murray Island, Torres
Strait, perched on the tossing gunwale
of a dinghy, maintain a balance and
poise that no sculptor could find else-
where. This attribute has been ac-
quired in diving for trochus shell on the
outlying reefs, the tawny mermaids being
little behind their lords in that depart-
ment. On Saibai Island, too, the flappers
can execute terpsichorean capers on the
slender outrigger poles of their cata-
marans, as these scud across the surface
like upcurled leaves in a millpond, with
no other aids to balance than their own
■issomeness. The queer thing is that
mese same amphibians become abjectly
and prosaically seasick if taken on board
a power-driven craft when there is any
sea at all running.
X x X X
“Upper Wisdom”: The extraction of
teeth by hand (subject of some recent
paragraphs) isn’t particularly difficult
when the gums are badly affected by
that disease usually misnamed pyorrhoea.
In Japan, before the impact of Western
civilisation, ordinary decay of the teeth
was very rare ; so that most of the ex-
tractions would be those of loose molars
affected by gum disease. Anyhow, there
are several modern dental schools in
Japan, and the students all use the ordi-
nary forceps.
* * *
“Greenhide”: I admit to knowing
little of the regular army (B. 9/9/’36),
but I can’t see what Sandhurst has to
do with the posting of A.I.F. officers.
The wearing of officers’ pattern uniform
in this country prior to gazettal is a
matter for the C.O.’s discretion, and car-
ries no rights such as “Ex-Officer” sug-
gests. Personally, I have been ordered
to wear it while officially a lance-ser-
geant, and much enjoyed ticking off
pukka three-stripers who were still my
seniors. On the other hand, a subaltern
awaiting gazettal in one of Sydney’s
most-talked-of units recently had the
misfortune to attend a dance at a strange
"The council ought to be shot for plantin' trees so near the road!"
H.Q. in his new undress equipment.
Even the omission of the pips didn’t
save him from a blast of the old man’s
wrath.
“Are”: It might be too much to say
that postage stamps have ever caused a
war, but they have precipitated one. The
s.-w. parts of the Gran Chaco arc
Argentine territory ; the northern area
was divided pretty equally on the map
between Bolivia and Paraguay. The
boundary was vague until 1927, when
Paraguay issued a stamp whereon the
whole of the disputed territory was
marked “Chaco Paraguayo.” The Boli-
vian Government countered by issuing
a stamp of its own showing the entire
district as “Chaco Boliviano.” Clashes
followed between frontier guards, and
soon both nations were engaged in
bloody warfare over the possession of
a tract of almost valueless swamps and
jungles.
$ t- .* *
“Oran”: The contributor who sug-
gested a light on the Sow and Pigs
rocks in Sydney Harbor (B. 2,/9/’36) will
find at the Mineralogica! Museum at
Dawes Point something more arrest-
ing, once destined for erection there or
thereabouts. It is the small model, the
work of the late Bertram Mackennal, of
a symbolical group, “a suggestion to
commemorate the part in the Great War
of the mercantile marine.” On each
side of the central winged figure, with
her arms outstretched and her grace-
ful draperies flowing, rise two great
white horses. The whole effect is one of
unusual beauty, and, swept by the -seas,
it would be a memorial to stir the
imagination. The project was appar-
ently abandoned long ago.
X'* * *
“V.A.G.”: “Gee,” puzzled by artists
who depict schoolrooms with blackboard
and easel (B. 5/8/’36), should be inter-
ested to know why they draw prisoners
in stripes or broad arrows, farmers with
beards, parsons with bald heads, miners
with lights on their headgear, policemen
with big feet, reporters with notebook
and pencil, artists lean and half-starved,
beehives conical, and a host of other
things as they are not, The reason is
that, if those and suchlike things were
drawn'true to life, the public would not
recognise them. The artist portrays the
public’s idea of things. The same can
be said about the artist’s bloomer in
depicting (B. 5/8/’36) Robinson Crusoe
gazing over London, replete with bridge,
many years before that structure was in
position. The bridge makes it London
as we know it.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: While admitting that the
Maori has his good points for an indi-
vidual only half a century removed from
a condition of savagery I still join issue
with “Makitanara” (B. 16/9/’36) on the
worth of the Polynesian compared with
the Zulus and Basutos. I will wager that
the Bantu races have produced Half a
dozen bishops to the Maori one. The
Zulus have furnished no Cabinet Minis-
ters, but that is because white South
Africa has carefully safeguarded them
from the contamination of Parliamen-
tary institutions. As to education,
Oxford and Cambridge have for years
had their quota of Zulus and other
Bantu students. “Makitanara” wisely
dodges replying to my statement that the
Zulu, unlike the Maori, was not a can-
nibal or slave-owner and was an ad-
vanced agriculturist and pastoralist. As
to military merits there can be no com-
parison. The leaders of the highly-
organised Zulu armies were tacticians
of a high order. The Maori did all his
fighting behind strongly-entrenched for-
tifications against inferior numbers of
troops ill-equipped for reducing the pahs,
which in most cases were impervious to
the tiny seven-pounder fieldpieces of
the attacking force: Nowhere in the story
of the Maori-British wars have we any-
thing to approach the masterly dash
upon the British forces at Isandlwana
when a Zulu impi out-manoeuvred and
destroyed two iregular British regiments.
-ji x X
“Ancient Greek”: The statues of
boxers in Sydney’s Botanic Gardens (B.
16/9/’36), also in Centennial Park, are
Greek boxers, reproduced from Canova’s
group in the Vatican. As to the cruelty
of the sport in the ancient days, the his-
torian Mahaffey says that the Spartans
objected to boxing because the defeated
competitor had always to ask for mercy.
In the original Olympic Games it seems
every sort of violence was used, save
biting. A mere fall did not end the
match, for the conflict sometimes went
on until one of the combatants was
choked to death. Mahaffey says that the
Greek idea of boxing would not be
tolerated even in the lowest prize-ring
to-day.
=!: # * *
“Jigger": The job for “Warren” (B.
8/7/’36) and subsequent inquirers is to
find how many street-corner bootblacks
there still are in Sydney. There are two
in front of the big pub in Railway-
square ; a little lower down George-street
there is another in front of the Great
Southern, and yet another has his stand
in front of the Burlington. That is about
half a mile of one street.
* * *
“Collector”: The trouble with our
Australian stamp designers is not that
they try to say too much in too confined
a space (B. 9/9/’36), but that they don t
know how to say it. I have before me
one of the most attractive stamps ever
issued—the .Southern Rhodesia King
George jubilee issue. It packs a whole
lot into a square inch pleasingly.
Against a background of the Zambesi
Falls, alongside which is the late King’s
head in a small oval, are shown a giraffe,
an elephant and a lion. I have handled
thousands of stamps from all parts of the
world, but nothing as attractive as this
Rhodesian one; nor have I ever seen
anything as jumbled up as the S.A. cen-
tenary stamp.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Number me among those
who can see no harm in people bathing
in a reservoir which supplies a near-by
town with drinking water —provided the
said water runs through an open channel
before entering the pipe lines. Running
water, in open creeks or channels, puri-
fies itself very quickly. Holiday-makers
used to have some enjoyable swims in
the beautiful Lake Wartook, situated in
the forest-clad hills of the
Grampians (Vic.). But that
same water, after running
through miles of open channel,
is reticulated to towns in the Wimmera,
and swimming in the lake had to be pro-
hibited on account of the fuss raised by
the old women of both sexes living in
those towns, who objected to what they
called “drinking bath-water.” It would
be just as ridiculous to object to drink-
ing sea-water because people swim in the
sea. There are many household tanks
where germs of disease can breed ; you
never find them in a clear, open creek
or channel that runs all the year round.
X X X X
“Bake”: Though they have been con-
demned and doomed every week of the
last 50 years, I fear that the good old
shin-plaster of the back-country is at
last going into a decline. Recently,
more than once, I have seen fellows tak-
ing photographs of them, and when that
sort of thing begins the end is near.
Yet this sort of currency did good work
in its day. Every publican, storekeeper,
odd butchers and a few others of the
wide areas used to issue their own
plasters. Occasionally they were nicely
engraved in the form of banknotes, with
the curly £ and figures which would do
credit to the Commonwealth Bank. Un-
doubtedly there was money—and good
money—for those who set them going.
Any man who has ever been in a gaff-
ing school at a bush race-meeting, or at
a shed, would know the tremendous
wastage on those plasters, soaked with
beer, crumpled in sweaty hands, lost,
destroyed and thrown away.
BEST—AND WORST.
1 saw it in a draper’s shop,
It sort of hit me like the sign,
The ukase brief, “Look, Listen, Stop!”
You see upon a railway line.
It hinted that a girl looks tine
In almost any sort of clothes.
But don't forget your clinging vine
Is always best in hole-proof hose.
Whether you take her to a hop,
A talkie film, or out to dine,
Whether she has an Eton crop,
Or hair as thin as yours (and mine)
It matters not. You can’t define
Where that precise attraction shows,
But this at least is feminine,
You’ll like her best in hole-proof hose.
Fair lady, you may shear your mop
And wear abbreviated clothes,
But certain innovations flop:
When stockings go, enchantment goes,
For veins (alas!) grow varicose:
You look your best in hole-proof hose.
N.S.W.
PIPA RDS.


“Painter”: Not only is linseed in bulk
a vegetable quicksand for the unwary
who try to walk on its solid-seeming
surface (B. 16/9/’36), but the oil ex-
tracted from the seed is a champion
drowning medium. Unless there is a
lightning rescue the unfortunate who
falls into a linseed vat is a goner.
Swimming is out of the question. Even
a Pitt-street company promoter couldn’t
float anything in the stuff.
jp * * *
“First Blue”: A section of Italy’s
fashionable press has been making a
fuss over the plight of some countess
or other who tried to enter the Casino
at Monte Carlo clad in slacks, and was
thrown out by the horrified authorities
Though the haunt of types ranging from
royalty to urgers and confidence men, the
Casino draws the line at those not wear-
ing regulation evening dress. In 1873
Robert Louis Stevenson was denied entry
because of the oddity of his dress, and
began writing an exposure of gambling
dens as a mild form of revenge.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”: You needn’t fear Romanies
camped alongside your property. They
always go several miles away to do any
pinching. If gipsies call in on you for
some excuse and then pass on, to camp
two or three miles away, that is the time
to look out, for in apparently aimless
glances they have marked down the posi-
tions of chaff sheds, pigsties, fruit-trees
and hen-roosts in preparation for a raid.
On one point the Romany commands re-
spect ; no gipsy woman sells herself.
X * *
“Q.E.S.”: I’m forming the Q Elimina-
tion Society ; that is what those initials
stand for. What is the use of that blasted
letter? Q, with' its U following, is
invariably sounded as kw —kween, kweer,
inkwisitive, exkwisite, and a hundred
other words. The only objection 1 have
to the change is that a man would look
a darned fool trying to say he was drink-
ing his likwor.
“T.M.E.”: I am a bushwhacker 400
miles in. I come to town once a year.
Eleven months of the year I am within
the boundaries of a station fence. At
Christmas, 1933, I arrived in Brisbane
and was pinched for speeding. In 1934 1
arrived again and was pinched by same
cop —no tail-light. In 1935 arrived
again ; pinched for parking ; same cop.
Took a lottery ticket and called it “Cop
Syndicate” ; missed £50 by one. In 1936
pinched for going round a corner against
the Albert-street lights; later found
lights I offended tucked under a shop
roof. Also pinched for parking and
received caution for travelling along Ann-
street with overdue registration label on
car. The rest of the year I live on salt
meat mostly, and sometimes the flies beat
me to that. For my car —it seldom feels
the touch of made roads —I pay £6 15s.
a year registration.
❖ ❖ * *
“O. W. Waireki”: I had heard of
sweets being made in a model kitchen,
but a brand of M.L.-made chocolates re-
cently placed in the market introduced
a new one on me. They were labelled:
“Fresh from the Studio of A. Blank.
Ltd.”
X * * He
“Nordbo”: When Fanny came from
Normanton to Yarrabah Mission she
met Tommy and fell in love with him.
Marriage followed, and a few weeks later
Tommy decided to give his wife a taste
of the pleasures that Cairns offers to
people with money to pay for them. The
newly-weds had walked the five rough
miles to Second Beach before a launch-
owner offered them a lift to the city.
Another resident (all the world loves a
lover) lent them a room for changing
into the necessary “glad rags,” and pres-
ently they emerged, transformed, their
shining black skin set off by the fine
white clobber, their eyes proudly gleam-
ing. “HaVe you any children?” asked
the resident, a woman. “No fear!” re-
plied Fanny, laughing uproariously ; “we
bin married only five weeks.”
“They Want to know what the Melbourne Limited's doin' at Newcastle!"
“Jungor”: Touching these bar-room
notices, I remember one that used to
hang over the bottles in a Nannine
(W.A.) pub which was employed to the
discomfiture of vice-royalty itself, as
represented by an a.d.c. A compound
of vile doggerel and profane jocularity,
it ran something like this:
To trust is bust:
To bust is hell:
No trust, no bust:
No bust, no hell.
In God we trust:
Everyone else cash.
It was towards the end of last century,
when a well-known mining boomster of
the period was touring the Murchison
'With the Governor (Jerry Smith) in tow,
that the party ran out of lager at Nan-
nine, and his Ex. dispatched an aide to
secure a few cases. The young man
made for the nearest house of call and
disclosed his commission. But he had
no money, and Bung flatly refused to
strap up the goods to .the mining boom-
“But, major , I thought you were a BIG game hunter!"
ster, whose credit was none of the best.
“Well, then, put it down to the Gov-
ernor,” suggested the aide hopefully, but
the publican was obdurate. “I’ve been
had that way before,” he grumbled ;
“blokes are always asking me to chalk
up drinks to the Warden.” Then he
jerked his thumb at the notice and the
conversation terminated. It is probably
the only instance on record where a
Governor has been refused credit at a
pub.
“W.J.E.”: Real-life mystery-stories
are sometimes much more intriguing than
the imaginary sort. Take the case of the
Glenelg (N.S.W.) storekeeper for traces
of whom thousands of people —many old
Digger mates —have been looking this
last fortnight. He got up before dawn,
fully-dressed except for slippers, to water
his horses, and he never came back.
There are petrol pumps in front of his
store, and one was found empty, though
the indicator pointed to four gallons. It
is surmised that a motorist drew up, got
the four gallons, knocked him on the
head, pitched the body into the car and
dumped it somewhere; but it has not
been found. And consider the case of
the Geelong policeman whose home was
bombed while he was in bed with his
wife in an inner room ; the poor woman
was killed and her husband was badly
hurt and is still suffering. To reach the
room the bomb must have gone through
two panes of glass. The window was, of
course, smashed, but the fly-wire was
still there, and the door-lock was
fastened, though the constable had not
locked the door when he retired. An
expert witness said that an unlocked door
might be locked by violent concussion ;
another ventured the opinion that the
woman must have been standing over
the missile when it exploded. Verdict:
“Wilful murder a-gainst some person or
persons unknown.”
* * % *
“Harold Hardupp”: A Bondi (N.S.W.)
lady who won a lottery conceived
the curious notion of devoting
a portion of the prize-money to
purchasing freedom for caged
canaries. The result was hardly
what she anticipated. It hap-
pened to be holiday-time, and
small boys, rushing excitedly in
pursuit of the liberated birds, re-
captured many of them. Nor
were boys the only enemies to
be encountered; the plebeian
instincts of those arrant little
bullies the sparrows were stirred
by the presence of the yellow
aristocrats, who had a rough
time at their beaks. Na-turally,
also, the cats regarded the freed
prisoners as a gift from the
gods. I found some yellow
feathers on my own doorstep,
and had no difficulty in locating
the culprit.
* * *
“Frothblower”: When the
Yankees got the idea of can-
ning beer some time ago they
found that the ordinary shypoo
was affected by the container.
All efforts to discover a lining
proof against the beverage hav-
ing failed, they shelved the
problem by brewing a special
beer, the ingredients of which
did not affect the cans. Those
who didn t like the new brew
had to fall back on the old-
fashioned bottled stuff. Then
the thoroughgoing Briton
stepped in, and after months of
research discovered a can lin-
ing which defied any brand of hop
extract. As a result all the popular
brands are as accessible in cans as they
were in bottles, and the corkscrew and
bottle-opener are becoming as rare in the
U.K. as snakes in Maoriland.
“Fiona”: Seasickness has knocked to
pieces more than one romance (B.
16/9/’36). When some years ago a
M.L. businessman eloped to San Fran-
cisco, the typist who went with him
confided to sundry friends that it was
their intention to travel the globe for
some years. Neither of the elopers had
taken a long sea voyage before, but
while the young woman recovered after
a few days and began to enjoy herself
her companion remained glued to his
bunk for nearly three weeks. A homing
American helped the lady to pass
the time pleasantly, and by the
time Honolulu was reached had per-
suaded her that bad sailors make worse
globe-trotters. On the quay at San
Francisco she announced her engage-
ment to the triumphant Yank, where-
upon, after a few hard words, the dis-
carded one ordered his luggage on board
again. He ended up an ideal husband—
and a churchwarden.
“Yorick”: Clearing out a disused
mining shaft near Bingara (N.S.W.)
the workers came upon the crum-
bling skeletons of a woman and
a child, the skull of the former
having something resembling a bullet-
hole in the forehead. Visions of
some grisly crime committed years ago
were naturally awakened, police and de-
tectives hastened to the scene, and the
bones were collected for an expert
opinion on the time they had lain tfyere
and the probable ages of the presumably
murdered victims. But as the excava-
tion work went on —the find was made
below the 70ft. level —the mystery seemed
to be deepening and horrors accumulat-
ing on horrors. Three more human
skulls were brought to light, and a mass
of other bones, all buried under the ac-
cumulated rubbish of 30 years—the mine
had not been worked since 1906. It
looked like a job for Sherlock Holmes
until somebody remembered that there
was an old cemetery near the mine
which had been in charge of an equally-
aged gravedigger with a rooted objec-
tion to hard work and a dislike to dig-
ging new graves when old ones could be
opened up and re-utilised. Pursuing
their inquiries and learning of a strong
local conviction that the ancient sexton,
who died some years ago, had been in
the habit of dumping his crowded-out
skulls and skeletons down the handiest
shaft, the police, it is recorded, “aban-
doned the murder theory.” There is
horror enough in the accepted explana-
tion, anyway.
THE ROAD.
Tis me with a dream of far stars in my eye
. On a road winding forth,
Dark red in the dusk of the range brooding
nigh,
To (he lields of the North,
Where sugarcane, lifting from valley and slope
Ripe lips to the sun,
Yields a season of toil and portion of hope
When my journey is done.
But the way, as it goes, is deep and aloof
In the cavern of night;
Hard earth for a bed and cold sky for a root
With my nap growing light:
Yet, driving the gloom from the cliff and the
creek,
Are dawns that are strange,
And ever the new for a rover to seek
On this road o’er the range.
New faith from a summer day, fruitful and
long,
Like a priest to the soil,
Who garlands in blossom and ushers with song
Goddess, Season of Toil,
While steeped in the harvest, as dawn is un-
furled,
1 lop and I load
Rich plant and ratoon from a warm and new
world
At the end of the road.
N.S.W.
FRANK MCCALL.


li
10 for
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
mstm
GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Thorby is satisfied with the wool
prices. For such wool as has been sold
—and a lot hasn’t been —they are still
below 13d. (Australian) a pound. Yet
Winchcombe Carsons report that “re-
serve stocks are not on hand anywhere,
even in the shape of tops and yarns.”
In other words, the statistical position
is better than it was last year, when the
average was 14d. a pound ; better even
than in 1933-34, which panned out
15.84 d. a pound. So woolgrowers will
still refuse to be satisfied, though all the
blatant politicians in Australia tell us
they should be.
At least one of the multitude of State
Premiers has a chance of immortality—
the Queenslander who authorised the
butchery of koalas nine years ago. The
slaughter was- so immense that koalas
have been scarce ever since. If they die
out that,Premier’s name will go stinking
down the ages.
Production of honey, largely for ex-
port, is another “primary industry” in a
bad way. “Is it true,” asked Baxter,
M.L.C., Westralia’s first C.P. member,
“that the Transport Board has refused
to allow apiarists to carry their honey
to market in their own vehicles?” “Yes,”
replied the Chief Secretary without a
blush. The Commonwealth at which
Westralian politicians rail so much has
never done anything even remotely re-
sembling that.
Hughes, the newyold member for East
Perth, has certainly brightened up the
debates in the Leg. Assembly. Alleging
a stoppage in s.p. prosecutions before
the State election, he went on to assert
that “there are never any at all in
Southern Cross”:
Mr. Lambert (Southern Cross): The
people there have no money to bet with.
Mr. Hughes (East Perth): I suppose the
poor devils invested it all in the man-
ganese co.
Yes, Mr. Lambert was interested in the
manganese co. So were other Labor
politicians and —indirectly, and very un-
fortunately—the State.
“As Maine goes, so goes the nation.”
It doesn’t always work out that way, but
at last week’s elections the old State re-
elected its one Republican Senator, re-
jected the Democratic Governor who
came in with Roosevelt (he was beaten
by 40,000 in a poll of 255,000), and put
Republicans in its three seats in the
Representatives, two of which had been
held by Democrats. No bad augury
for Landon.
Australian Labor newspapers have
claimed a large 1935-36 profit for the
Maoriland Government railways and
attributed it to the vast superiority of
Labor administration. Actually, Labor
had control for four months only, and
there was no profit. Gross earnings were
£7,004,316, working expenses £5,952,839
and interest charges £2,300,051. Since
the railway year closed the employees
have been given the 40-hour week, so
there will be no profit this year.
A Sydney professor has had the good-
ness to suggest that the State Govern-
ment, which has myriads of unemployed
to look after, and —excluding loans —has
gone nearly £3,000,000 to the bad in 14
months, “should establish a chair of in-
dustrial and vocational psychology at the
University and put Dr. Martin in it.”
The Bulletin offers what it considers a
better suggestion —that professors should
stop gassing so much and spilling so
much ink outside their seminaries. The
unasked-for advice that pours from so
many of them has got on people’s nerves.
Last year English newspapers were
starring the Abyssinian campaign notes
and predictions of a certain Major-
General Temperley. A charwoman
couldn’t have written wilder nonsense.
The same papers are now recording the
artless astonishment of a Major-General
Wavell at a sham-fight dodge he wit-
nessed as leader of a British military
mission to Russia:
Twelve hundred soldiers jumped by para-
chute from aeroplanes and landed behind
the “enemy” lines with 150 dismantled
machine-guns and 18 field guns, with am-
munition. The guns were assembled within
eight minutes, and the “enemy” was routed
by a rear attack.
It might be effective against savages
armed with bows and arrows, but what
would a real enemy be doing while the
skyey performance was going on and
during the eight minutes?
In the first two months of 1936-37,
N.S.W. State revenue was £205,117 less
“Members of the former Lang group are dissatisfied with Mr. Curtin’s leadership, com-
plaining that he is ‘too academic in his approach.’”
“Gam, sissy! Why don’t y’ play the game as it ought to be played?”
than for the corresponding period of
1935-36, the total being £7,128,009, and
expenditure (£8,424,746) was £95,844
more ; deficiency, £1,296,737. To some
extent it is a result of the wrangle with
Japan, but no U.A.P. politician or news-
paper would admit that for the world.
Nowadays the George-street entrance
to Sydney’s Wynyard station is a study
in departmental greed and putrid taste.
One side is a wooden wall run up to pre-
vent drunks falling into the foundations
of a pub building alongside the station;
the other side, for 80 yards or so, is
given over to entrances to bars and win-
dowed displays of booze. A few paces
beyond the last bar is the restaurant
which the department has established on
a station catering only for suburban
traffic, and on which it pays neither rates
nor taxes.
What Dunstan had the face to describe
as “the most important constitutional
measure introduced into Victoria for 30
years” has been improvised as a result
of his failure to force a 1937 election of
Leg. Councillors elected for six years
in 1934. It is a humble copy of Asquith’s
1911 Parliament Act, with a few local
features added —reduction of the mini-
mum age for members from 30 to 21,
of the property qualification from £5O to
£25, and of the election deposit from
£lOO to £25. Many Victorians will value
it at its true worth, which is less than
tuppence.- Their sentiments are “A
plague on both your Houses.”
Brisbane aldermen get £3OO p.a. Some
of them now complain that they “have
to keep in such close contact with their
constituents that the job is practically a
whole-time one.” So they “will not
refuse” an increase to £4OO p.a. This
suggests that the extra hundred may be
grabbed.
It cost £1559 to take Mr. Menzies to
London again (with private secretary)
and back, and £4297 to tote Dr. Page
and staff half round the world, “and
there may be a few minor accounts yet
to come.” Excluding salaries, of course.
Apropos of salaries, some bright mind
discovered towards the end of last week
that if increases provided in the Budget
for Ministers and members were voted
before they rested from their labors the
new screws would take effect from Mon-
day. Mi. Casey had thoughtlessly gone
home. He was recalled ; the Financial
Relief Bill (good name!) was taken at
11 p.m., and by 1.30 a.m. it had been
put through. The stampede to the
Sydney train on Friday was even more
joyous than usual.
From the “‘Times’ Weekly”:
Mr. W. F. Foster, a veteran member of
the United Australia party, collapsed and
died during a debate at Canberra.
Not bad, but not so good as an effort
of J. I. Brown, M.L.A. for Logan (Q.).
A man 1 admire is Frederick Stewart,
of Melbourne. He employs , about 600
hands. He went to England, purchased
machinery and found that by reducing the
hours of his employees by four a week
and not reducing their wages he was able
to make more than he did. He is doing
better now than he did before.
Stewart never employed 600 hands on
the show (a woollen mill), never worked
it on a 40-hour basis, is not making
more money than before, having sold
out, and doesn’t belong to Melbourne,
being M.H.R. for Parramatta and some-
time Minister of Commerce. Still, Mr.
Brown did get the name right.
Chief Justice Mann, of Victoria:
''There is no doubt that the examination
by the police of persons in custody may be,
and even is, carried to most undesirable
excesses.
It was said four months ago. Now Chief
Justice Jordan, of N. S. Wales, summing
up in a case in which a young Sydney
printer claimed damages from a detec-
tive-sergeant and two constables, alleg-
ing wrongful arrest, wrongful imprison-
ment and assault, has laid it down that
It is not lawful to arrest citizens and
hold them to see if a case can be made
out' against them.
That was done to the printer, and more.
The' action of the police was illegal,
and amounted to a serious infringement of
the, rights of the plaintiff. There was no
doubt some assault in connection with the
arrest.
Verdict for plaintiff ; damages, £3OO.
Counsel for the three N.S.W. police
officers cast in damages for wrongful
arrest and imprisonment of and assault
on a citizen peacefully going home at
night was “instructed by the Crown
Solicitor.” Surely this doesn’t mean that
the people are to be debited with the bills
resulting from the misconduct of their
servants?
Queensland Premier Forgan Smith
finds that one of the problems of the
year will be “to collect enough loan
money at reasonable rates” for two-mil-
lion-pound bridges, new departmental
palaces and the like. Apart from
£14,900,000 in ordinary revenue, plus
£1,163,000 from the Commonwealth and
£2,500,000 or so from relief tax, which
goes into special funds, Foggy’s Govern-
ment will have no money at all to play
with except what can be raised from
“Shylock”—though the word is only
whispered nowadays.
President Teasdale to the Westralian
P.P.A. conference; subject, the Whis-
kard-Gullett tariff:
The confidential information and docu-
ments displayed by Mr. Lyons were instru-
mental in relieving woolgrowers’ minds.
Delegate Williamson (Woolgrowers'
Council) to the same P.P.A. men:
We were with the Prime Minister from a
quarter past two until five o’clock, and
during the whole of that time the P.M.
was placing information before us. The
reading of certain cables created a great
change of opinion.
The P.M. in the House:
I did not submit to that conference any
private or confidential documents. One
telegram was made available —it was from
a member of this House who said it might
be made available.
So much for the value of witness to
the obvious.
Melbourne “Age,” which announced
on August 19 that “last year Japanese ex-
ports to the amount of £8,000,000 entered
this country and Japanese imports from
Australia totalled £12,000,000” (the Com-
monwealth Statistician’s figures in sterling
are £4,959,648 and £14,094,736), has
made another startling discovery:
With Australian wool as raw material
Japan manufactures goods which become
highly competitive in the Australian market.
The last" Overseas Trade Bulletin
gives a detailed list of Japanese imports
for five years to June 30, 1935. Woollens
are mentioned once —in the item Silk and
Woollen Socks and Stockings. Imports
of Silk and Woollen Socks and Stockings
were valued at £4 in 1932-33, £2 in
1933-34 and in 1934-35 at a whole pound.
By the end of 1936 the Government
at Washington will have paid U.S.
farmers $2,000,000,000 for not growing
crops, 30,000,000 acres having been
withdrawn from production. Unfore-
seen results are that farm produce has
become so dear that it can’t compete in
foreign markets, and that so many “hired
men” and tenant farmers have been put
off that national unemployment is
stationary at 11,000,000 to 12,000,000.
Now, as a result of the drought, imports
of 42,000,000 bushels of wheat are neces-
sary this year. Nature is avenging itself
horribly on Uncle.


ONE BAD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER.
“A campaign aimed at creating a public conscience towards Australian birds and animals was recommended at a conference in Melbourne.”


sdf
mV#*
» 6
sadf
i MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
2L
5
a
N
L.
T
D
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., JWelboumei
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane'
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. Bv taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For. review of
actuary’s report f,ee “Bulletin,” 1 3/6/'34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; P. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
These Queenslanders die hard. For
the first time in 103 years, Tom Ned-
wich, of West Bundaberg, spent an anni-
versary of his birthday in bed, with a
cold caught earlier in the week. Born
in Austria, he, wife and four children
landed in Maryborough (Q.) 63 years
ago.
Frith is right in putting tropical walk-
ing attire on Archer Russell, whose third
book, Gone Nomad, was published last
week. Russell has spent the better part
of his adult years roaming around the
globe, mostly in equatorial regions.
Boundary-rider, drover, opal gouger,
“One of the Wandering Boys.”
trader in northern Rhodesia and the
south-eastern Congo, and a Digger on
Gallipoli and in France, his mild appear-
ance and speech contradict his thirst
for adventure. Excitement he has had
in plenty, as the pages of Gone Nomad
testify, but at his home on the scrubland
plateau of Collaroy (N.S.W.), overlook-
ing the Pacific, his talk will mostly likely
be about books and birds and his col-
lection of cacti.
W. E. Gundry, retiring from directing
the correspondence courses at Sydney
Tech., built the system from a postal
course for country health inspectors in
1910 to its present 45 courses, covering
every branch of technical education, with
51 teachers and 1500 students. Gundry’s
instruction goes even into the gaols. One
of his students came from the clink to
bag a university degree.
The beard of Dr. Alan Mozley is
about the largest and blackest the
Commonwealth has seen since George
Wilkins was in his prime. Mozley—
formerly of Johns Hopkins University,
New York—says that he grew it to keep
warm during the 12 years he spent rov-
ing the north between Finland and
Alaska. His specialties are as diver-
gent as his travels—animal distribution
in relation to drought and small-mol-
lusc relationship to human and animal
disease. Next year he goes to Africa to
study bilharziosis, an ailment not un-
known to Diggers who were in Egypt.
In the meantime he is to have a look at
S. Australian and Westralian fauna.
This year’s Kernot medal for a dis-
tinguished Australian engineering achieve-
ment goes to E. G. Ritchie, lately re-
tired engineer of Melbourne Board of
Works, for which he did jobs which cost
over £7,000,000 during his last half-
dozen years in office. Ritchie, a Scotch
College boy, was once secretary to the
Victorian Railway Commissioner. If
somebody endows a medal for trout fish-
ing, he has an odds-on chance of win-
ning that, too.
H. L. Primrose, chairman of the
round-Aust'ralia contest executive, is a
solicitor from Cootamundra, a director
and councillor of the N.R.M.A., State
president of the Automobile Association
of Australia, and a Sydney M.L.A. who
graduated from municipal to State
politics. He was six years mayor of
North Sydney and opened the Harbor
Bridge on the north side after J. T. Lang
and Mr. De Groot had opened it on the
south.
Brisbane theatrical circles will miss
George Webster, who could do anything
on the stage —sing, dance or be Ham-
let or the Ghost with equal ease. He
might have ranked high among Aus-
tralia’s professionals, but a large slice of
shares in George Webster and Co.—
now Webster Brothers —inhibited his
early ambition. He was 56 when he
died after only four hours’ illness, the
first serious sickness he had suffered in
a hard-working life.
The new Queensland deputy Public
Service Commissioner, J. McCracken,
has been working for the Government
since 1911. He has been in the secre-
tariat of the commission since 1924 and
became senior P.S. inspector last year.
William Robert Caithness, senior
director of British General Electric Co.,
Ltd., was born at Arbroath, Scotland, 52
years ago and educated at Mill Hill—a
school which
years afterwards
became noted
throughout the
world for the
achievement o f
its youngsters in
radio experiment.
After leaving
school, he joined
Fraser and
Chalmers, of
Eri t h (Kent),
who, when he was
23, sent him to
Australia. He had
considerable ex-
perience on the
W.A. goldfields,
and in 1918 joined
B.G.E. as chief
engineer. From
that position he
climbed to his
present job.
John Hop e.
here on a visit
from the U.S.A.,
is an Australian
better known
W. R. CAITHNESS.
outside his own country than in it. .Since
he left in 1914, with no more ground-
work than a half-dozen art lessons at
East Sydney Tech, and some training as
a die-maker’s apprentice, he has become
one of the best-known museum sculptors
in Uncle Sam’s country. His work has
taken him to darkest Africa and bright-
est New York.
Walter Hutchinson, who arrived in
Australia a day or so ago as general
foreign manager for Twentieth Century
Fox Films, was managing director of the
firm for Australasia and the Far East a
dozen years ago, pioneered all the main
branches between Hobart and Shanghai
and afterwards became g.m. in Britain
and then in Europe. He developed into
a keen follower of hounds while he was
in Britain, and is a busy collector of old
prints and silver.
“Hamfat’s” reminiscences of A. B.
Triggs:
The defection of an advance agent landed
me with a stranded theatrical company in Yass.
Billing had to be done after arrival, with a
prospect of a poor attendance on short notice.
“See Triggs,” said a friendly publican. Triggs
was easy to see. “Postpone the show two
days, and I’ll take 50 front seats each night and
do all I can for you,” he said when he heard
the case. He paid out a cheque for the seats
at once. He must have done good work on the
telephone, for everybody who mattered in
Yass attended; and two nights were played to
two bumper houses.
Frank Gough has been calling the
odds in Brisbane for 66 years. He an-
nounced his retirement recently, but
brother-bookies paid the £7O license fees
to keep him bidding.
G. S. Shepherd, retired on the age limit
from chairmanship of Sydney Police
Court Bench, is a kindly man whom 16
years of magistracy and 47 around the
courts have made tolerant of human
nature. It is his dictum that want is the
basis of most serious crime, and he has
done a great deal for the underdog.
A. R. Leonard, dead at Port Pirie
(S.A.), was one of the Commonwealth’s
most restless soldiers. Lieutenant-colonel
when he passed out, Leonard, born in
London in 1864, tried the British Navy,
the Foreign Legion, the C.M.F., a job
as a schoolmaster and some other
avenues of occupation and adventure
before he settled down 20 years ago as
Port Pirie (S.A.) health officer. He was
at the bombardment of Alexandria, his
work with the Legion earned him a com-
mission and in the C.M.F. he commanded
garrison artillery.
R. B. Bennett, who is to visit Australia,
is a typical Canadian Prime Minister.
There has always
been a tradition
o f scholarship
associated with
Canada’s P.M.-
ship, a job much
more stable there
than in Australia.
Canada has had
only six Premiers
in 40 years. Wil-
frid Laurier
(1896-1911) was
a brilliant Q.C.
The next, Borden
(nine years in
office), took silk
at 37 and was a
favorite Canadian
counsel in Privy
Council appeals.
Arthur Meighan,
who had a couple
of brief terms
during periods of
un settlement, was
a sound mathe-
matician and lec-
turer turned
lawyer. Mac-
kenzie King, Fellow of Harvard in
political science and Minister at 26, was
in office as P.M., with a three months’
break, from 1921 to 1930. (He is the
only bachelor in the succession.) Bennett,
who had nearly five years of office before
the King’s Liberals swept him out last
year, was K.C. at 37 and is a vice-
president of the Canadian Bar Associa-
tion.
Alex. Melrose is a member of the ver-
satile S. Australian pioneer family best
known for pastoral activities and stock-
breeding and through the flying genius
The Melrose Laureate.
of young James, cut off in his early
twenties in an accident in Victoria,
three months ago. Alexander, a tall cul-
tivated citizen bubbling over with the joy
of living, is a poet by inclination and
one of The Bulletin’s most valued S.
Australian contributors. Unlike most
poets, he has a highly practical mind and
enough of this world’s goods to be able
to combine the role of Virgil with that
of Maecenas. Art circles in Adelaide
know him as one of their most generous
patrons. He has recently published a
book of verse, dedicated to pioneer
colonists as a S. Australian centenary
tribute.
By irony of fate Campbell Black was
killed on the ground on the eve of the
London-Johannesburg race in a collision
between two slowly taxi-ing ’planes. The
quiet, humorous, careful Scotsman had
pioneered some of the world’s most dan-
gerous flying in Africa, and when he and
Scott won the centenary air race from
Mildenhall to Melbourne he was one of
the first two Britons to handle a 200
m.p.h. machine over long distances. Both
’planes in the accident which killed him
had Australian associations —one bears
the name of Hawker-Hart to commem-
orate great Australian flying pioneers.
This is among the biggest and most effi-
cient of British bombers. The Percival
Mew in which Black was to fly in the
race is the piece de resistance among
Australian Edgar Percival’s famous bat-
tery of aeroplanes. It was to have been
seen in the Australian centenary race —
a tiny thing not much more than 4ft.
high with the speed of a bullet, un-
matched in efficiency for its size except
perhaps by one or two French fighters—
but military Britain began to take an
interest in it, and it was held back for
experimental work.


<<§ SSMsSV
11
*m
U
i
vSJ
V
a
£>
&
&
o
$9
*3y
»- <S
V<
9
/>
A» O
o
?>
*4
#gf 30 iSI
vfx/lp’ <C
*> <<p
lt otft _a3^
Melbourne -rt^O"
*W„ "“”“• „ rS o*> *
'Seeing rrt£®
4tf c
NT U
'WAU«
O. RIE N-T STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
TROUT
Season
Opens Ist October
asdf
Mick Simmons’ Fishing Experts or
competent to advise as to the correct
tackle suitable to the Trout Waters of
New South Wales.
WM. SOUTHAM FLY RODS
"Monty”—This rod is suitable for either Wet
or Dry Fly, built from specially-selected
brown cane. Three joints, two tops. Light
weight screw reel seat, cork handle, upright
bridge intermediate, and agate butt and tip
rings. Waterproofed. suction ferrules
Length, 9ft. Weight, 6oz.
Price £7/17/0
MONTAGUE SPLIT-CANE
FLY RODS
Montague Sunbeam Fly Rod. Made of
brown finish split cane, three joints, two
tops, nielcelplated fittings, shaped solid cor
grip, steel end rings and guides, Wound
with two colors of Silk. Length, 94ft
Weight, GJoz. , n
MONTAGUE FLASH FLY ROD.- Made of
flame finish cane, three joints, two tops,
niekelplated fittings, cork grip, steel end
rings and guides. Wound with two colors
of silk. Length 91ft. Weight, 6Joz.
Price 36/9
TROUT REELS
THE “TASMA” MODEL 10 TROUT FLY
REEL. —Size ulin. All aluminium, finished in
a durable anti-corrosive Gunmetal _
color. Price 59/6
Agate Guide, 5/6 extra.
THE “TASMA” MODEL B.— Size 3-Jin. Con
tracted type, all aluminium, finished in dur
able Gunmetal color. _ .
Price 34/6
Agate Guides, 5/6 extra.
THE “SENIOR” “STE ELITE” TROUT
REEL. —Size 3§in. Contracted type. Light,
strong and durable. , _ .
Price 12/6
TROUT FLIES
All popular patterns. ' “Dry,” per doz., 5/-,
“Wet,” per doz., 3/-.
HUCKLEBERRY FINN
ENAMELLED SILK LINES
Made from an excellent grade of silk. In
35yd. coils, four connected.
Size H G E
Test, pounds 12 16 24
25 yards 3/6 4/- 5/4
50 yards 7/- 8/- 10/S
GUT CASTS
“Bronze Wing” Tapered Casts, mist color.
Made from best quality drawn gut. Taper
lx to 4x, J to 3x, 1 to 2x, i to lx.
1/4
Two yards.
Price
Red Loop Tapered Casts, 71ft.
Price
Hercules Tapered Casts, 9ft.
Price
Three yards.
Price
2/-
2/6
37-
SPINNING BAITS
No. 2—Ring mounted Devon Baits—
Sizes, ins 1 lj 14 If o 21
Prices. each .. 1/9 1/10 1/11 2/- 2/3 .2/9
No. 4—Pflueger Indiana Spinner, excellent
for Trout—
With single metal flash and fly, sizes
1 and 2. Price, each
Willi.double metal flash and fly, sizes
1 and 2. Price, each
1/-
1/3
LANDING NETS
No. 3- X.L. Collapsible Landing Net. tele
scopie handle. .■*^
Price 0 4 Jb
“KIEVVA” DE LUXE COLLAPSIBLE
FOLDING LANDING NET.— Made from the
finest stainless and durable 'metal. Machine
finished and polished. Light in weight and
extremely strong, with clip for belt. Com-
plete with oiled net. __ . _
Price, each 29/6
(Carriage extra on Fishing Tackle.)
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
Haymarket, Sydney.
And all Branches in City, Suburbs and
Newcastle.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“N.”: Cabled news that there is a move-
ment on foot to introduce Australia's
old friend the “tray bit” to England
brings to mind the enormous plates of
coppers collected in even fashionable
English cathedrals every Sunday. By the
time the gatherers have got to the final
row the plates must be quite a strain on
the arm muscles.
* * * *
“Korero”: Overseas game birds are
regarded with suspicion by Australian
acclimatisation societies, according to the
recent Melbourne conference. Maori-
land, on the other hand, sees no potential
nuisance in the timid pheasant, and on
a national park near Rotorua a curator
is caring for 12 pheasants and a setting
of imported eggs from which it is hoped
to replenish tracts of country now shot
out by sportsmen. F. Lewis, Vic.’s chief
inspector of fisheries and game, sug-
gested the importation to Australia of
partridges and pheasants.
* U *
“Gain”: How enervating is the tropic
sun. One Saturday late in August
Moresby (Papua) opened its third com-
petition cricket match of the season at
2.40 p.m. with O’Malley and Timperley
batting for Dettman’s side. Timperley
took 90 minutes to go out with 107, in
which there were five sixes, 10 fours and
37 singles. In that time the partnership
had scored 280. A couple of young-
sters were scuppered for under 20, and
then a wight named Baldwin joined
O’Malley, and they built up a nice little
partnership which added 250, Baldwin's
score being 101 not out. The innings
then closed—four for 652. O’Malley’s
share was 386 not out, made in 200
minutes —the first two centuries each in
60 minutes, the third in 45 minutes and
the final 86 in 35 minutes. He hit 22
sixes—twice, three of them in succession
—and 39 fours. One over had 42
knocked off it. The best previous N.
Guinea score —213- —was made by
O’Malley some years ago.
* * # *
A preliminary report on the Emperor
(Fiji) mine puts developed ore at
620,000 tons oxides, 50,000 tons tel-
lurides; partly developed ore (mostly
tellurides) 50,000 tons; total, 720,000
tons, averaging about lOdwt. The pros-
pectus mentioned 211,000 tons of ore
going 13.4dwt.
:i= =i: * *
“B.B.”: On the British basis one Aus-
tralian out of every 250 could be em-
ployed as a professional soldier*. This
would give us la standing army of 30,000
men. We could find suitable employment
for such a force in peace-time by taking
over, on financial adjustment, the policing
of Singapore, Colombo and stations on
the China coast. We could, in addition,
set up a few outposts for ourselves in
New Guinea. On the British basis, such
an army begets a reserve and voluntary
force twice as strong as itself. This
gives us one person in 80 specially
trained in arms.
* * * *
“Kriz”: A U.S. magazine recently
published a story set in Nor’-Wesfralia.
After reading it I posted it to my old
skipper, Captain Pintle, of Broome. He
will be delighted to know that there is
a Mills-bomb dump on the western side
of Roebuck Bay, that the Lacepedes have
shifted up to Darwin, that King’s Sound
leads into Port Hedland and that all the
pearlers are two-gun men who, despite
the fact that they drink the vilest of
whisky, can shoot straight from the hip.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Australia will welcome an
old friend when Lord Somers, president
of Marylebone and for a term Governor
of Victoria and Acling-G.-G., makes his
landfall in Melbourne in time for the
third Test match. The visit was unex-
pected, and the ex-Governor does not
come as a cricket ambassador; neverthe-
less he and the members of the Board of
Control will probably find something to
discuss. The visitor has had plenty of
practical experience of the game, having
played for the Charterhouse and Worces-
tershire.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: There was an unusual
sequel to the final of the match for the
All India- Soccer Cup, won by the
Mohammedan Sporting Club. The match
was played three times, the first two
games being drawn. A third tussle saw
another draw at full time ; extra time
being ordered, the Moslems beat their
European opponents, the Calcutta club,
2-1. The Mayor of Calcutta invaded the
ground with his following and offered
up prayers of gratitude for the victory,
while Calcutta Municipal Council de-
clared a public holiday.
“Murray”: Bushman’s sight, is it? We
were sitting on a pub verandah in N.Q.,
when a horseman rode into view a
quarter of a mile away. “Cripes,” ex-
claimed Jim without hesitation, “I know
that horse. Broke him in years ago.” To
me he looked like hundreds of other
bays I’d seen. When the traveller arrived
we went over to the hitching rack to
screw the brand. It was a nag Jim had
mouthed six years earlier, and that was
the first time he’d seen it since.
Sister Bertha Parry, of St. John Ambu-
lance renown, has written a book which
shows that every kitchen is a potential
pharmacy. It’s in Your Kitchen is the
title of the small but very useful work.
In its pages soda, salt, mustard, nutmeg,
treacle, oatmeal become not only food
elements but friends in need to the home
nurse. Sister Parry was in the nursing
service of the A.LF. in Egypt. For some
years she has been organising secretary
and lecturer of the St. John Ambulance
Association.


How Much Time
cnn you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your. Executor. Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. tirunton, Herbert K. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. >J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de Li Cudmore,
R. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory P-oohlet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, G/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
41,388
1929.. 549.931 10 p.c. 10 p.c.= 443,322*106,609 147,997
Share premiums, £376 .. .. .. 148,373
1930.. 320.700 10 p.c. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
1931.. 10 „ 24 „ „ 187,141 138,312
1932-207,340 10 „ 3 ~,,205,970 1,370 139,682
J 933-241,919 10 „ 4 ~ ~ 243,626 137,975
1934- 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,283 6,646 144,621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 ..107,229
1935- 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.. 10 „ 5 p.c. = 281,283 25,900 160,145
includes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau co.’s
shares,
Complaints were heard at the annual
meeting about (1) paucity of informa-
tion in the accounts, and (2) failure to
disclose total payments made by the co.
to directors. As for the published ac-
counts, they are modelled upon lines
adopted by progressive English cos., they
tell more than they used to, and they are
sufficiently itemised to give a clear view
of the financial position of the under-
taking, including subsidiary interests, and
its gross and net earnings. Concerning
payments to directors, their fees aggre-
gate £7500 p.a. Beyond that the board
is silent. Special payments to executives
(revelations in connection with Coles
have startled the public) are usually re-
garded as trade secrets, shareholders
trusting the board to act with the utmost'
good faith in the interests of the co. as
a whole. Still, opinion is growing that
a co.’s articles might prescribe a limit to
the amount that can be paid to an
executive in any year.
The year’s gross earnings (£878,748)
were up £106,255. Including an unspeci-
fied provision for depreciation, taxation,
etc., exes. (£573,068) were down £56,409.
Taking a net unexplained addition of
£1503 to reserves into the reckoning, the
net result was £187,167 better at £307,183,
which includes dividends received or de-
clared on shares in other cos. The
£307,183 was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 5.6 p.c. on ord. capital, or 6.5
p.c. on the two lots of capital combined.
While the co. nets less than 10 p.c. on
total capital, the pref. money will remain
a hindrance to the ords. The ords., passed
by in the previous term, were handed
5 p.c. Prospects of the co. being able to
repeat the 5 p.c., or pay a bit more, at
next balance are encouraging.
The improvement in last year’s figures
was partly apparent and partly real.
Actually the co. earned enough to pay
the pref. div. and 5 p.c. to the ords. in
the previous term. Instead, a substantial
part of that year’s earnings, together with
a windfall of £147,576 from Barnet Glass,
and more besides, was used to write
down the book value of plant and to
recondition equipment. Also, the orga-
nisation was thoroughly overhauled,
special attention being given to factory
control, personnel and plant, a more
effective system of budgeting was intro-
duced, overlapping in production be-
tween the co.’s own and associated mills
was eliminated, a new g.m. (W. A. Bart-
lett, from England) took up the reins in
December last, and a chief purchasing
agent, to co-ordinate the co.’s extensive
buying, has been appointed. The bene-
fits of all this were only partly felt dur-
ing the last term ; they should be further
reflected in the current year’s accounts.
Another factor that helped last year's
earnings was growth in the number of
cars and commercial vehicles on the
roads in Australia—66s,94B at June 30,
up 52,543 over the twelvemonth. Tyres,
the most profitable section of the busi-
ness, account for about half the co.’s
turnover, and rubber footwear for most
of the other half, which includes prac-
tically every remaining description of
rubber goods. Latex, used for seats and
cushions in motor-, railway- and tram-
cars, is a new line from which much
is expected, and a subsidiary, Latex
Products Pty., has been formed to manu-
facture and sell it. Chief obstacle in
the path of last year’s earnings was the
rise in the price of rubber; there was no
lift in the selling price of tyres.
The already-strong financial position
was further strengthened:
Capital: 1929. 1935. 1930.
Old. . . . . £3,764,151 £3,765,655 £3,765.055
Pref 930,000 930,000 930,000
Liabilities!. . . . 504,612 211,814 99,701
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,138,687 1,015,430 1,009,707
Plant, etc. ' . . 1,147,026 848,912 846,915
Stocks . . . . 1,433,639 1,454,508 1,194,841
Debtors . . . . 515,384 663,813 640,138
Cash . . . . 154,201 76,095 104,680
Investments . . 29,163 1,110 379,045
Shares other cos.. . 1,046,052 1,075,792 1,075,792
Goodwill* .. . . 354,377 354,377 354,377
* Not treated as an as.set herein.
A reduction of £259,667 in stocks and of
£23,675 in debtors’ balances (healthy
signs with an expanding turnover), to-
gether with the year’s surplus earnings,
enabled £112,113 to be clipped off the
amount coming to outsiders and cash and
investments to be strengthened by
£406,520. Investments consist chiefly of
fixed deposits (£267,055) and Australian
Consols (£110,659). The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£2,219,003) was £235,291.
At 18s. 3d. (15s. 6d. a year ago) the
ords. return 5.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 355. yield 5.7 p.c.
The book value of the net tangible cover
is £5 4s. sd. prefs. and 20s. lOd. ords.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
Net , Dividends Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Reserves, fieit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill and preliminary exes. .. 8,096
1927.. 699 10 p.c. Bp.c.=, 644 35 8,061
Added intangibles, £7547 .. .. 15,605
Forfeited share reserve, £406 .. 15,202 '
1928.. 5,690 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 3,647 2,043 13.159
1929.. 8,365 10 „ 8 „ „ 8,327 38 13,121
Written off, £165 .. .. .. 12,956
Loss.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil 51,936
June,
1931*. 8,901 Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 371 p.c. Nil 4,660 1,135 3,539
1934.. 16,799 7§ „ 71 p.c. = 8,522 8,277 11,816
1935.. 23,046 10 ~121 ~,,18,129 4,917 16,733
1936.. 40,823 10 ~15 ~ ~29,334 11,489 28,222
*Nine months.
Early in the piece—the co. was formed
toward the close of 1926—there was some
window-dressing to coax capital. But
what the board had then called profit,
and a lot more besides, were swallowed by
bad debts in 1930. However, there were
changes in the control, and the dead-
wood was pruned out of the accounts —
Bs. per share (£74,289) was lopped off
ord. capital in 1932. The co. thus placed
itself in a position to attract new capital
and make a fresh start, just as the out-
look began to brighten again. That the
management made the most of its oppor-
tunities is plain from the growth of the
figures over the last three years.
Over that period the board has pursued
a vigorous policy of expansion. During
the last term two new branches were
opened, one at Newcastle and the other
at Wollongong, making a total of 13
branches, as well as two furniture show-
rooms, in N. S. Wales. Turnover of the
Queensland subsidiary, which has five
branches, showed a “substantial increase,”
too, and so did that of the Melbourne
offshoot, formed in April, 1935 —it is
making “satisfactory” profits, but has not
yet paid a div., the money being required
to finance extension of the business.
The £108,185 of fresh capital gathered
by the parent during the year, together
with surplus earnings and an extra
£73,564 from outsiders, went mainly into
advances, up £162,710:
1929. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £137,875 £171,766 £176,874 £285,059
Liabilities .. 15,127 10,500 52,248 125,812
Equipment .. 2,885 4,240 11,293 14,157
Investments .. 32,408 33,295 24,743 56,443
Book debts . . 106,736 82,563 216,540 379,250
Cash, etc. . . 2,571 1,331 1,504 3,221
Investments (up £31,700) consist of scrip
in the Queensland subsidiary (£26,443)
and Victorian offshoot (£30,000). The
item that catches the eye is book debts.
Accounts on which no payments have
been made for four months are entirely
written off, and those on which nothing
has been received for two months are
written down 50 p.c. In addition, a
round sum is provided against the balance
of debtors, as well as 10 p.c. for con-
tingencies. While debtors’ balances con-
tinue to be treated on this basis, there is
little danger of the full profit claimed not
being realised.
Last year the spring in gross earnings
(£137,572) was £57,856. Exes. (£96,749)
took £40,079 of the increase, leaving the
net result £17,777 better at £40,823. After
paying the pref. div. enough remained
to show 22 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 12.8 p.c. for the previous
term. The div. was lifted from \2\ p.c.
to 15 p.c.
To finance further expansion, 208,987
new 12s. 6d. ords. have been issued at par
since the close of accounts. When fully
paid, paid capital will be £426,171, and
the pref. div. plus 15 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £61,000-odd, or about
£21,000 more profit than was claimed
last year. Still, that may not prove
beyond reach, provided nothing very un-
expected happens.
At 30s. lOd. the 10 p.c. pound prefs.
return 6.5 p.c. The ords. at 275. 3d.
yield 6.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Subject to intangibles in the subsidiaries,
tangible backing after new issue will be
£9 Is. 9d. prefs., 13s. 4d. ords.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re— Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 70,328 10 p.o. = 55,000 15,328 66,520
1927.. 78,715 10 „ „ 55,000 ) g m u g 9„
Taxation reserve, £15,236.. j
1928.. 75,001 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,001 95,000
1929.. 75,000 10 „ „ 55,00 C 20,000 115,000
1930.. 65,000 10 „ „ 55,*000 10,000 125,000
1931.. 35,750 „ „ 35,750 125,000
1932.. 27,500 5 „ „ 27,500 125,000
Loss.
1933.. 4,000 2 „ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 ~ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935.. 26,200 4* „ „ 24,750 1,450 111,598
1936.. 22,348 4J „ „ 23,375 110,571
Difficult to say exactly what the future
holds for McWhirters, in the Valley. The
co. used to be a steady 10 percenter,
enjoying probably the largest retail
turnover in what was one of the busiest
shopping centres in Brisbane before the
slump. Though economic conditions
have greatly improved, earnings remain
stubborn, owing partly to the tendency
of the shopping public to drift back to
Queen-street, where competition from
chain stores and other drapers is mak-
ing itself felt, while “lack of adequate
facilities” at the Valley railway station
hasn’t made the management’s task any
easier.
Since 1932 the co. has sold an increas-
ing volume of goods, but selling prices
have had to be pared to do it, and that
has kept profits at a relatively low level.
Also, drought in the back-country
affected the mail-order section of the
business. During the last term, turn-
over was “satisfactory.” Still, gross
earnings fell away £6473, owing to inten-
sive price-cutting, which lowered the
margin of profit on practically all mer-
chandise handled by the co., the board
says. Also, some fashion goods had to
be sold at low prices owing to unseason-
able conditions:
1928. 3934. 1935. 1936.
Gross profit. . £261,380 £168,615 £173.252 £166,779
Exes.* .. 186,379 142,217 140,052 140,431
Profit* . . £75,001 £26,398 £33,200 £26,348
* Before providing for taxation.
The small increase of £379 in exes, was
on account of advertising. After setting
aside £4OOO for taxation the net result
was £22,348, or 4 p.c. on capital as
against 4.7, 4, a loss, 5, 6.5, 11.8 and
13.6 p.c. back to 1929. Quarter of a
point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to 4* p.c., the final being at the rate
of 4 p.c. p.a.
Finances are comfortable, and bal-
ance-sheet movements attract little atten-
tion :
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 7,817 109,395 50,827 54,451
Creditors .. 50,153 37,917 52,291 48,924
Freehold and
plant . . 324.500 453,000 446,150 445,900
Stocks . . 296,90 S 262,092 242,502* 237,642*
Book debts.. 109,710 115,484 92,803 90,556
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 40,665 5,772 2,161 4,068
* Includes goods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
Stocks, taken into the sheet at cost or
replacement value, whichever was the
lower, are reported clean, and provision
has been made for all known contin-
gencies. The year’s shrinkage in the
more or less liquid surplus (£228,891)
was £5457.
As for the current term, trading con-
ditions generally are bright enough;
results will largely depend upon the
course of competition. The market
prices the fully-paid pound shares at
165., or thereabouts, as against 18s. a
year ago. The return at 16s. is 5.3 p.c.
on a 4| p.c. div. basis. The cover is
245. in net tangibles.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
& £ £ £
1926.. 20,608 10 p.c. = 15,000 ) , nnß , Ifi 7#l
Written off, £2600 .. } 3,008
1927.. 11,078 10 p.c. = 15,000 112,859
Taken from reserves, £9535 .. 103,324
1928.. 6,166 Nil 6,166 109,490
1929.. 12,382 Nil 1 „ r>Bo 11(|0 ,„
Written off, £2BOO .. f 9,j82 11J,07 “
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 .. .. .. .. 102,372
1930.. 7,908 2J p.c. = 5,000 2,908 105,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO 95,280
1931.. 13,016 3f p.c. .= 7,500 6,516 100,790
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. .. 96,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions, £2OOO .. 96,990
1933.. 14,655 54 p.c. = 11,000 3,655 100,645
Written off shares in other cos.,
£5OOO 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020. . 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 5,788 111,909
The outlook is less clouded than at
any time since the co. linked up, in 1922,
with J. Boag and Son, and the pair
passed their beer-making plants to a
subsidiary, Tasmanian Breweries Pty.,
for £200,000 in scrip, one half 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and the other half ords.
Cascade’s whack was 52,162 prefs. and
50,000 ords., together £63,000 in excess
of the book value of tangible assets trans-
ferred. Since the merger £57,462 has
been written off shareholdings.
Trouble began about nine years ago,
when, following installation of a new
Nathan plant, competition, which meant
price-cutting, reared its head, and the
operating co. ceased to contribute. Cas-
cade was thus left with returns from its
hotel properties and the cider- and
cordial-making section of the business.
Shareholders, who were passed by in
’2B and ’29, averaged 4.1 p.c. for the
next four years. Meanwhile, the pro-
prietary’s local and inter-State trade
began to improve, and has continued to
do so, thanks partly to increased con-
sumption and partly to “arrangements
made with some of the mainland
breweries.” In 1934 it paid its first pref.
div. for seven years, and arrears have
since been overtaken. The curtain,
however, remains drawn over its
accounts.
During the last term, Cascade’s gross
earnings (£53,965) sprang £8348, to
which all sections of the business con-
tributed. The growth in exes. (£30,446)
was £4035. Including an unexplained
addition of £2269 to the bonus equalisa-
tion reserve (£5932), the net result was
12.8 p.c. on capital as against 9.4, 8.8.
7.3 and 6.3 p.c. back to 1932. The div.
was lifted from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c., and
there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest a recession ’in earnings.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
were in the right direction:
1925. 1931. 1935. 1930.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 57,148 129,124 121,129 118,234
Other liabilities 4,734 10,976 2,433 2,854
Hotels, etc... 173,699 253,847 254,246 253,794
Stock & plant 22,627 111,281 95,567 96,233
Book debts, etc. 26,491 • 24,801 18,296 22,454
Cash, etc. .. 12,212 312 10,340 14,171
Shares other cos. 106,530 70,809 65,196 64,640
When the books closed, outside liabilities
exceeded more or less liquids, including
stocks (£7171) but not shareholdings, by
£77,292, an improvement of £10,296 over
the twelvemonth.
The market prices the 21s. shares paid
to 20s. at 38s. 9d. as against 325. 6d. a
year ago. The return at 38s. 9d. is 5.1
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Subject to
intangibles in the accounts of sub-
sidiaries, the cover is 31s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 18.)


10/6
Gallon
MIXED
10/6
Gallon
NON-POLSONOUS
Science applied to paint has brought about a wonderful reduction
in painting costs. Dan Dee Household Paint, manufactured by
scientific methods, ground in powerful mills to perfect smooth-
ness, lasts longer, looks better, and costs less than old-fashioned
paint. A pleasure to use, it works easily, covers thoroughly, and
dries with a solid, bright finish. Obtainable in a range of 1 5 most
attractive colors. Have your paint supplier obtain some for you.
METROPOLITAN PRICES:
10 6 Gallon, 5 9 Half Gallon,
3/6 Quart, 1/10 Pint,
1/. Half Pint.
Country Freight Extra.
COLORS:
Eau de Nil, Dark Stone, Light Stone,
Dark Green, Mid Green, Red Oxide,
Chocolate, Cream, French Grey,
Bungalow Brown, Mid Stone, Light Blue.
Also in Black, White and Flat White.
When You UseDAN DEEJouSaveMoney
FELSPAR PRODUCTS
Godfrey and O’Riordan Streets, Alexandria, Sydney
Telephones: Mascot 1025<1026.


AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
Twenty uses for
A.M.P. Policies
«AAT Y A.M.P. policies have an extraordinary range of
IVB usefulness,” said a doctor recently. “They keep me
from worrying, and they’ll pay off my mortgages
when I’m gone”—and then, with a twinkle in his eye—“may-
be they’ll make it unnecessary for my widow to marry again.”
The Society would like as many citizens as possible to benefit
by the service it renders the community, and so it prints this
list of uses for its policies. Maybe members, out of their
experience, will be able to add other uses to these:—•
They end worry.
They prolong life.
They ease the sick.
They comfort widows.
They feed children.
They preserve homes.
They build up assets.
They keep families together.
They provide schooling.
They increase self-respect.
They pay off mortgages.
They provide dowries.
They pay out partners.
They pay death duties.
They encourage marriage.
They perpetuate incomes.
They give peace of mind.
They provide cash in emergencies.
They make provision for employees.
They are badges of good citizenship.
If you, who read this, see in this list some benefit that you would like
to enjoy—or would like your family to enjoy—’phone, write, or visit
the nearest A.M.P. office. The Society offers the service—it is for you
to seize upon it!
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary, General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * • * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collision and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* •* * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. ' For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 170 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES
i l
mmmmm
-■
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. i-gallou Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
In the coal industry there are still too
many producers for the volume of trade
available, which means that there is little
or no profit in the business; and it is
difficult to say when conditions in this
respect are likely to show much improve-
ment. The big J. and A. Brown and
Abermain Seaham collieries (paid capi-
tal £1,900,007), operating on the northern
N. S. Wales field, netted £6168 (down
£6802) for the year to June 30. No
allowance was made for depreciation.
The two months’ shipping strike half-
way through the term affected earnings.
The co. lost the contract with the Aus-
tralian Gas Light Co. during the Decem-
ber half of 1934 ; it picked up another
from the Railway Commissioners, but
the size of that has shrunk. Shareholders
got their last div. (2y p.c.) in 1934. The
market prices the pound shares at 6s. 6d.
or thereabouts.
* * * ■ #
Although Mt. Morgan provided (by a
new share issue) for the cost of erecting
a new oxidised ore-treatment plant,
reorganisation of the powerhouse and
extension of the existing sulphide
concentrator, the directors have de-
cided “to refrain from giving consid-
eration to declaration of the usual in-
terim div.” until the new plant is suc-
cessfully operating at capacity. It is ex-
pected to be ready for the feed in
November next'. Owing to dilution with
sulphide overburden, the assay value of
ore milled has lately shown a smaller
gold content:
, Four Weeks Ended
10/6/’36. 8/7/’36. 5/8/’36. 2/9/’3G.
Ove mined, tons 22,932 20,448 22,474 24,938
„ treated, „ 23,540 20,450 22,450 25,000
Assay—
Gold, dwt. . . 4.21 4.20 3.91 3.70
Copper, p.c.. . 0.43 0.02 0.74 0.60
Concentrates, tons 841 735 900 566
Content—
Gold. oz. .. 3250 2858 2750 2997
Copper, tons 85 109 146 143
It is partly to increase recovery, and
thus eliminate more of the loss in the
tailings (1.31 dwt. for the four weeks to
Sept. 2), and partly to increase output
and lower costs, that new plant is being
installed, etc. This plant (initial capacity
6000 tons a week) is expected to treat
oxidised ore (1,500,000 tons has already
been measured up) at a profit of 10s. a
ton. The capacity of the concentrator
(it now treats 7500 tons of sulphides
weekly) is being enlarged. When the
new equipment, etc., is complete, the co.
aims at maintaining a steady throughput
of about 30,000 tons of average grade
sulphides and 25,000 tons of oxidised
ore monthly. Lately the co. has been
paying quarterly divs. at the rate of 60
р. p.a. Doubtful whether that rate will
be maintained, the market priced the
fully-paid 2s. 6d. shares around 13s. last
week-end as against 18s. 6d. early this
year.
* * * *
To finance erection of a 3000-ton-a-
-month treatment plant, etc., on its
Misima Island property, Gold Mines of
Papua will offer 240,000 new ss. shares
to those on the register at Sept. 25, one
for one. The directors and staff will
take any shares not applied for, together
with another 60,000, making the total
new issue 300,000. In May last there
was 250,000 tons of 465. oxidised ore
(gold at £8 an ounce) already developed,
with another 150,000, largely sulphide,
estimated to be available above the
drainage tunnel, provided the lodes
maintain present dimensions and values.
Experimental treatment of several trial
parcels of ore yielded “entirely satisfac-
tory” results. Prospecting on Woodlark
Island has been disappointing. Here
work on the Woodlark King, Kulumadu
leases and a dredging area has been
abandoned, and the cyanide plant is being
transferred to Misima.
4= 4* 4: * ».
Turning over an extra 385,800 c.y.
(750,100 altogether), Tin Bentong cleared
£17,427 (up £8782) for the year to April
30. That was after writing £16,000 off
mine property and providing £126 for
depreciation, etc. A reduction of 3.14 d.
per c.y. in average values (8.64 d.) was
accompanied by a saving of 2.53 d. in
costs (3.8 d.). Two Is. divs. (together
£10,000) were paid, and another shilling
has been sent out since the close of
accounts. Restriction continues, but the
co.’s quota has been lifted to 65 p.c.
for the period July-September, as
against 61 p.c. at April 30. At balance
date current assets stood £27,641 in ex-
cess of liabilities.
* * * *
Shares in Mandated Alluvials, the
Papuan show which has had a wide and
erratic market for its scrip, after sales
at 20s. on Saturday saw 31s. at the noon
call on Monday. Latest official reports
and the opinion of mining-engineer Bon-
wick, who paid a flying visit to the mine
last week, are awaited by the market.
Further reference will be found on page
46.
4= * * *
Upper Barkly Alluvial (Vic.) reckons
it has 20,000,000 c.y. of dredging ma-
terial in the old Barkly lead and its
tributaries. With gold at £8 an ounce,
bore values range from 6d. to 3s. a
yard, average Is. 3d. The eastern section
of the lead, containing some 10,000,000
с. 15ft. to 25ft. deep and 600 ft. wide,
can be treated by hydraulicking, and the
western section by bucket-dredging. At
March 31, current assets exceeded liabili-
ties by £lOl2.
He H* H*
For its first full year of production to
June 30, Lancefield (W.A.) netted
£114,624, after setting aside £12,462 for
depreciation. A shilling div. (25 p.c. =
£50,000) was paid in February, and an-
other shilling was sent out at the end of
last week. The 106,218 short tons of
ore milled yielded 31,249|0z. fine gold,
which realised £271,544. Other receipts
raised total revenue to £275,710.
Average head value of ore treated
was 7.81dwt., or 335. 2d. with gold
at its statutory price. Excluding de-
velopment, working costs were 245. 6d.
a ton. Prospects are for a better
showing at next balance. Crushing has
been speeded up ; 11,350 tons was treated
during July, as against an average of
8582 tons for the 10 months to May last,
and there will be the profit from re-
treatment of old tailings, scheduled to
begin at an early date. Also, the
diamond-drill has pierced a body of
13.79dwt. ore, lift. 2in. wide, at a ver-
tical depth of 1247 ft. Ore reserves above
No. 11 level are put at 201,400 tons, with
a probable 850,000 tons below that level,
if the lode maintains its average length,
width and value.
* * * *
Norseman (W.A.) has added to its
holdings the near-by Iron King lease,
containing what looks like a fairly large
low-grade deposit. Whether it is a pay-
able proposition remains to be proved.
A big ironstone lode, 50ft. thick in places,
carries gold over a width of approxi-
mately 800 ft. The ore, which is free-
milling, can be mined by opencut and
treated at an estimated cost of about 14s.
per ton. It is claimed that a residue of
J-dwt. or less can be obtained by straight
cyaniding. On this basis, ore averaging
2+dwt. should be worth putting through
the mill. Sampling in and near the pres-
ent opencut has disclosed ore averaging
34dwt. Before the rise in the price of
gold over 25,000 tons of five to eight
dwt'. ore from this lease was crushed at
local batteries. Norseman’s mill (now
treating over 6000 tons monthly from the
mine) can handle at least another 1500
tons a month, and capacity can be further
increased at small capital cost.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s mine profit for
the June quarter of 1936 was £112,064.
That was after deducting £9706 for
ordinary development; the outlay on
special development totalled £8335, and
on machinery and plant £8634. During
the period 6235 ft. of development was
done on various lodes, mostly No. 2 in
the Horseshoe and Chaffers leases,
between the 2100 ft. and 3020 ft. levels,
and on the newly-discovered ore-shoot
in the Horseshoe on the fifth and sixth
levels. No estimate of ore reserves is
given, but the tonnage, which is increas-
ing, is at least four years ahead of the
50,000 -ton -a- month treatment plant.
Last month’s profit was £50,000, the best
to date.
* *l* * *
Imperial, operating at the southern
end of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile,
reports a loss of £5500 for the
year to June 30. The co. then had
£22,761 in the bank. The board has
extended the options held by London
interests over 100,000 of the co.’s un-
issued shares till Sept. 30, and on another
100,000 till the end of 1936. To date,
operations have disclosed partly encour-
aging and partly disappointing results.
The skeleton in the cupboard is a re-
fractory ore-body.
* * * *
Gold Exploration, Ltd., proudly an-
nounces that from January till July its
subsidiary companies, and those in which
it has a substantia] interest, treated an
aggregate 97,461 tons for 46,2600 z. of
gold, valued in Australian currency
at £400,404. Chief contributors were
Triton, Central Norseman, Mt. Coolon,
Morning Star, Gold Mines of Kalgoor-
lie, and Erlistoun (Cox’s Find).
* 4= 4= *
Pomme d’Or (W.A.) announces a
small profit for the year to June 30.
Liabilities then exceeded current assets
by £1276. Several offers from unnamed
cos. “with adequate cash available to
place the mine on a profitable working
basis” have been received, but the market
is not impressed. Some shareholders are
wondering what has become of “faces
producing payable ore, and the ore-body
carrying ounce values,” mentioned in
official reports last year.
* * * *
The possibility of Cox’s Find (in
Western Mining Corp.’s Westralian
stable) proving a winner strengthens.
During August 922 tons was treated for
a return worth £6150. The previous
month’s recovery was £6120 from 778
tons.


THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
(Macleod Gallery),
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney.
mm
mMusm
WM
P ■ ■:
mm
■ ■
m
Thirlmere Landscape. Oil-painting, J. Muir Auld.
AUSTRALIA'S
MOST
REPRESENTATIVE
COLLECTION
OF
AUSTRALIAN
ART.
■■■ I 1' I'
: ill® IS flMtk
%4:
m
m
Moonrise. Sand grain, Ella Dwyer.
Gallery
Open
Daily,
10 a.m. - 4.30 p.m
ADMISSION
FREE.
m
WSm
temmm
■ ;
m
m
uMjrrrr
/ivoca Lagoon. Pencil drawing, Douglas Pratt.
Pen and
Pencil
Drawings,
Water-colors,
Oils and
Etchings
By
Australia's
Foremost
Artists
For Sale.
Captain Bobadil. Pen drawing,
Norman Lindsay.
N. Lindsay,
Hans Heysen,
Arthur Streeton,
E. Gruner,
B. E. Minns,
J. R. Jackson,
Will Ashton.
Fred Leist,
Robt. Johnson,
R. W. Phillips,
D. Pratt,
G. K. Townshend,
Etc., Etc.
• / /v
mm
M
wm
■
■IV"
Jgmmm
Landscape, Near Gloucester. Oil-painting, Will Ashton, R. 0.1.
There is no Wedding. Birthday or Christmas Gift More Appreciated than a Good Etching or Painting.
Write for Some Suggestions.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Sliding Seat”: In all these yarns about
horses and horsemen I never see it men-
tioned how long a man can retain his
ability as a rough-rider without practice.
I put the limit at three weeks. I’ve tested
myself, and I’ve seen the test v applied
to Long Ted Pont, one of the finest
rough-riders ever known in W.Q.:
Three weeks off a rough ’un was our
limit. At the end of that vacation a
horse which would be only playtime to
us in constant practice would make us
ride, and ride hard. The yarn about the
fellow who rides the outlaw after a trip
to England leaves me cold.
* * * *
“L.W.”: Kangaroo flesh, disdained as
food in all parts of Australia, except as
a last' resource, is esteemed as a delicacy
throughout Tasmania, and appears with
a flourish on hotel menus. A possible ex-
planation is the scarcity of abos. in the
Speck, kangaroo- and wallaby-eaters thus
having no embarrassing sense of indulg-
ing in niggers’ grub. Snobbery makes as
deep a mark on our diet as it does on
our dress.
* * * *
“Morita”: Dad reckoned the pump-
kin to be the best-taster ever he’d struck,
and he’d grown them all his life. We
all waded in for an encore of it, but
no one could diagnose its subtle flavor
till we held a post-mortem around the
vine. Dad slapped his broadest part and
pointed to the tree the vine trailed over,
a fig ; the fruit flavor was right through
the pumpkin. We humped home a
hefty specimen to give the neighbors a
treat, but it was just pumpkin; so were
all the rest of the crop. Bees, possibly,
had flavored the sole delicacy.
“Nor’-West”: One of our finest natural
spectacles is Koolan Island, Yarnpi
Sound (Nor’-Westralia), under the lash
of a tropical thunderstorm. Seven and
a half miles long by three at its widest,
the iron cliffs of Koolan stand in places
200 feet above the.sea. All ironstone
outcrops, even in temperate regions, at-
tract lightning, but there are times when
this enormous, almost-pure iron mass
seems to blaze with electric fluid. Prob-
ably, with such a good conductor to con-
nect with, these electrical displays are
entirely harmless, but viewed from the
deck of a storm-tossed lugger the almost-
constant successions of terrific forked
flashes, with the tremendous crashes of
the following thunder, make a spectacle
which recalls to even the toughest beach-
comber a few of the little things he learnt
at Sunday-school. What the abos. may
have thought of such a debil-debil island
down the centuries should make an in-
teresting study for anthropologists. Koo-
lan in their language means black. The
lightning-scarred cliffs were Black Island
to them —possibly in more senses than
one.
“Valerin”: If the crow were not such
a coward bird life in Australia would
fare badly. I’ve seen a couple of wag-
tails beat the black thieves from their
nest, and when soldier-birds make a mass
attack Kelly has business elsewhere. He
carefully avoids a nesting magpie, the
most vicious bird in the bush. The
crow stages a comedy act when he
tries to snap up a wild-duck fledgling
from the water, the little chap diving just
as the attacker strikes. He relies on back-
chat with an eagle, who treats him with
contempt. Kelly is at his best when put-
ting it over a stupid old fowlyard matron
who is rushing about trying to defend
her chicks; then he brings out all his
cunning tricks.
* * *
“Barangkali”: That free feed left for
Binghi following the Feast of the
Lanterns (B. 19/8/’36) reminds me of
the annual festival in honor of Njai
Roro Kidoel, goddess of the Indian
Ocean, who demands that the Poegerese,
a fishing community on the west coast of
Java, load a prau with flowers, cakes,
fish and offerings of money, tow it to sea
and cast it adrift. Should the vessel dis-
appear over the horizon everything will
go well with the natives of Poeger, but
“You moo when I'm puttin' and I'll do the same to you!"
should adverse currents swing it back to
the rocky coastline disaster and dis-
appointment will attend their fishing.
Recently the votive offering has been the
cause of turmoil. Javanese, with an
irreverent eye to a good thing, dwell
on the loaded prau just over the horizon,
and, while the Poegerese return rejoicing
to their villages, tow it back to their
kampongs further down the coast. Chat-
tering women gave the show away, and
relations on the coast are now greatly
strained.
* * * *
“Nix Mangery”: Old Man Cactoblas-
tis has evidently been reading The
Bulletin, which recently referred to the
craze for fancy cactus growing among
Australian gardeners, and recalled that
the prickly-pear came to Australia as
a garden ornament. A group of Maltese
at Wentworthville, near Sydney, has
built up a flourishing industry in these
imported cacti. Lately there appeared
out of the blue a beastie which began to
devour the precious plants. It turned out
to be Cactoblastis, and since that
creature’s nearest known address is in
South Queensland and northern N.S.W.
the descendants of the knight's of St.
John are wondering how the dickens it
got so far south.
* ■■■ '■
“Warrigal”: I can corroborate
“Lugger’s Mate’s” experience of shark
maternal affection (B. 26/8/’36). On
one occasion two of us were down for
shell when we happened to come on a
shark’s nest. With visions of copious
omelets, we seized a bagful of eggs
apiece and signalled “Haul up.” The
bereaved mother followed us up from
200 fathoms, torn between rage and sup-
plication. She made no attempt to attack
us for fear of breaking the eggs. We
finally let her have them, as we realised
we might strike trouble on the next trip
down without them. Before the bed was
worked out, we were quite welcome
visitors in the nest, and often took a
piece of chocolate or a Jap’s leg down
to the frolicking little creatures, who in
their turn were equally scrupulous not
to foul our air-pipes in their gambols.
One of them became so attached to us
that it sprang aboard as we up-anchored,
and stayed with us a week. Unfortu-
nately it refused to eat the cook’s mate,
despite our coaxing, and pined away. The
poor little thing hadn’t been weaned.
* * * *
“Inside Hipe”: If “Beorg” (B.
26/8/’36) had named Lancashire, instead
of Cornwall, as the home of “hacking”
in wrestling I could have agreed with
him. The regulation Cornish wrestling
is done in canvas jackets to which the
holds must be applied, and is rather
dreary. In Lancashire, home of the
wooden-soled, iron-tipped clog, shin-hack-
ing was allowable in wrestling. The clog
was the chief weapon in all manner of
fighting, private and public. In his
reminiscences, Lord George Sanger, Eng-
lish circus king, tells of an incident he
saw at Bolton Wakes when he was a
child travelling with his father’s sideshow
some time in the 1840’s. A gang
knocked a man down ; then, ringing him
round with their arms round each other
dispassionately kicked him to a red pulp
while amiably discussing the price of ale
and other more important matters than
hacking.
* * * *
“C.M.S.”: At Lake Cootharaba (Q.),
which abounds in fish and crabs, my
mate and I constructed a fishtrap. Set
each evening with mullet bait in 3ft. of
water, it often yielded 20 bream and half
a dozen mud-crabs; but I waded out one
morning to find a jewfish the length of
the trap imprisoned. It tipped the scales
at 761 b largest jewy ever caught in
the lake.
* * * *
“Eureka”: They were standing round
the fat bullock which was the sub-
ject of the weight-guessing competition.
The town know-all was telling how he
had guessed the correct weight of every
bullock at every show for hundreds of
miles round. “Well, I’ll bet you a pound
I can guess as close to the correct weight
as you,” challenged a stranger. The
know-all accepted the wager, did a little
calculating and announced, “Eleven
hundred and twenty-two and a half
pounds.” The stranger didn’t even bother
to look at the beast but exclaimed, “I
believe you’re about right. That’s my
guess, too.” Then he demanded the
pound and got it.
* * * *
“Leirum”: On Darnley Island, Torres
Strait, is a huge pelican, grown gross by
years of soft living and leading a Jekyll
and Hyde existence, one as the entirely
domesticated housefowl of his Binghi
proprietor, and another as corsair of the
skies, robbing the more industrious gulls
of their fishy catch from the surrounding
reefs. Undoubtedly contact with humans
has demoralised him, for he is not above
thrusting a predatory beak into the gar-
ments of any chance visitors to the island
in search of spoils. He has the carte
blanche to every hut in the village, and
the hordes of Binghi dogs are his only
enemy. When these become irksome he
soars away to sea till the vulgar nuisance
has abated ; then and when the mating
season is on are the only times the hoary
old Lothario is absent.
* :K % *
“Drafter”: Talking about coaldust and
miners’ lungs, how about the fellow who
works in stockyards? Fortunately for
him, his jobs aren’t constant ; but even
after half a day in an old yard drafting
sheep any fellow who has been in the
thick of it can “spit a brick” when he
goes to the camp that night. It’s a toss-
up which makes the worst dust —cattle or
sheep. The worst cattleyard I’ve known
was at Old Austral (Barkly Tableland).
The dust wasn’t too bad, but the lime-
stone country gave it a grip that back-
country grog could hardly rival. Half
a day in that yard always gave me a split-
ting headache, a throat that felt like
burnt leather, a tight chest and a low
fever. Two days of it would have just
about killed me.
* * * *
“Spitenchips”: It is possible to become
too enthusiastic in a good cause. When
the Koolinda called at Wyndham recently
to convey 200 re-
turning meatworks
employees to Fre-
mantle it was
learned that the
ship’s bar had
been declared
black. The meaties
decided to stand
by the crew and,
a beerless voyage
being unthinkable,
carry their own
liquor. This, in
bottles, amounted
to many cases,
which the ship’s
officers refused to
accept as luggage,
passing the whole
stock back on to
the wharf. Assisted
by the hundred or
so fellow-meaties
who had come to
see them off, the
departing ones car-
ried the stuff on
board again—only
to have it once
more put back on
the wharf. Again
it was carried on
board, and again
put off. Numbers
won in the end,
and finally the cap-
tain cast off, carry-
ing the victors and
their beer south-
ward. Flushed also
with victory, the
remaining meat-
workers adjourned
to the pub —to
learn that their departing comrades had
carried away all the beer in the town,
and it was likely to be a month before
another boat and further supplies arrived.
The drought, however, was cut to a
week by an SOS to Darwin; that out-
post parted with some of its stock rather
than see fellow-Australians suffer. Still,
a week without beer is a long week in
Wyndham.
* * * *
“J.E.L.”: Binghi is renowned for the
toughness of his feet, which will easily
withstand burrs and any prickled leaves.
But it takes more than half an inch of
hardened skin to keep coral out —I’ve
seen abos. along our nor’-east coast with
their soles badly slashed with it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The boss had something
to convey to Curly, who was driving six
horses in an empty wagon, so he mounted
a stump, cupped his hands and roared:
“Hey, Curly, swing ’em in he-e-ere!”
The leaders, skittish after spelling, shied
at the roar, and in a flash the team was
bolting through the scrub in a wide circle,
Curly hanging grimly to the bouncing
wagon. Boss and hands stood helpless
listening to the crashing in the scrub and
hoping for the best. Then the laboring
team appeared, trotting at random,
almost blown, with the off-hind wheel
of the wagon in ruins and the axle
ploughing a furrow. There was no sign
of Curly. Somebody stopped the tired
nags, and all hands were just about to
start a search for the mangled remains
when Curly’s face rose over the side of
the wagon. “Didja call me, boss?” he
asked.
THE BULLOCK TEAM.
Steve is out with his bullock-team
When the morning dewdrops shimmer,
And city people are still adream
(Way! Come he-ah, Trimmer!).
Twelve red Devons and leaders twain,
Thick necks bending to take the strain,
Be the weather clear or cloudy;
I hear them coming, l watch them pass,
With the great long logs ot sassafras
(Way-ah! Whoa-back, Rowdy!).
If you speak to Steve he will speak to you,
Straightforwardly, if shyly,
As he walks along in his shirt of blue
(Whoa-back! Gee-otf, Riley!).
But the way is long from the mountains down
To the timber-mill in the little town,
Through black soil, sand and gravel;
And short the day, and heavy the load,
So he will not linger too long on the road
That the patient bullocks travel.
Home they go when their work is done,
And the light of the day grows dimmer;
Fourteen bullocks that move as one
(Way-ay! Come he-ah, Trimmer!).
I watched them go and I watch them come—
Boxer and Bowler and Bounce and Plum —
Trimmer and Spanker leading;
Sensitive, primitive, beautiful, true;
Knowing the work that Steve must do,
Hearing his word, and heeding.
The hills are his, in their beauty bright—
The leaf and the bud and the blossom;
The sunlit day and the starlit night
(Way-ay! Come he-ah, Possum!).
Steve knows little, and Steve cares less,
For the world of parties and evening dress,
And the life of builder and banker;
But the ways of the wild are as clear to him
As the ways of his bullocks, Broad and Tim,
Purple and Sharp and Spanker.
QUEENSLAND.
L. O’NEIL.


“M’s.M.”: Big Mat was humping a
knot through the Vic. Mallee during a
pretty hot spell. A cocky offered him a
job stooking. “What’s it worth?” asked
Mat. “Quid an’ tucker,” answered Hay-
band. Profanity from Mat indicated re-
fusal. “Some of yew coves hate hard
work,” sneered Hayband. Mat un-
shipped his 1001b. swag and threw it at
the cocky’s feet. “Ever carried one o’
them?” he asked silkily. “No,” was the
lofty reply. “Then,” snorted Mat, “don’t
talk erbout hard work till you do.”
* # * *
“Pisces”: I’ll back the deep-sea toad,
known also as the porcupine fish, for tell-
ing teeth. This giant toadfish runs to
two feet or more, is slimy, repulsive, and
has spines in place of a fringe of hairs;
and his teeth! Actually they are elon-
gations of the frontal bones of his head,
capped with ivory that is case-hardened.
Anything they close on goes when he
leaves. I saw one cut clean through a
bit of 20-gauge steel wire used as a trace
for the line.
* * * *
“Podge”: All horses that grow new
hooves are not bumblefooted. A draught
mare of ours that lost a front hoof after
a rusty nail was extracted hobbled round
on three legs for some time growing an-
other hoof, normal in every respect.
* Jjt * *
“Der Jong”: There are several reasons
why the wild pig would not be more suc-
cessful as a dead-sheep abolisher than
the South African aasvogel. One is that
the pig is a killer of live animals, especi-
ally young lambs, while the fowl is not
known to touch anything living. Further,
the pig doesn’t make anything like the
job of a carcass that two or three vul-
tures do in half the time. Writer
had close acquaintance with the
wild porker on the Balonne River
(Q.) when it was becoming a ques-
tion whether the country was going
to carry pigs or sheep, and in the
lambing season the grunters proved
a real curse, often following the
“The salary's scarcely enough for a man with ten children .”
“But surely you haven't ”
“No, not exactly; but I dare say it could be —er — managed!"
mobs of ewes about and grabbing the
lambs as they were born. In one drive
station-hands on the A, P. Co.’s runs
round Dirranbandi accounted for over
1500 pigs in three days, mostly with
spears made from shear blades mounted
on saplings—weapons that proved better
than firearms.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: If Marble Bar is a
, ... ~ , /t> miict
bottle-oh s dream (B. 2/9/ 36) what must
Pinkie Bend be? It is a curve of the
Murray River, at the foot of the high-
, , w h,Vh thp Cbaffevs’ old home
land on wmcn me kmaneys otu nunic
stands in Mildura (Vic.). For years Mll-
“It's Miss Bodkin, the novelist , Mightiness — she's in search of experience,
you know.”
dura, the Mecca of thousands in the
fruit-picking season, had no pub, the
more serious refreshments being supplied
by licensed clubs (which had rigid mem-
bership rules) and a wine shade near
the station. Many of the invading thou-
sands camped in Pinkie Bend during the
picking season. In the 1914 drought the
bed of the old river was revealed. It
literally consisted of bottles and flagons,
flung - there by the carousing campers
year after year.
* * *
“Lower Tops’l”: The Kimberley
(W.A.) abos. have their own fishing
methods. On Noonkanbah station I’ve
seen Binghi, when the Fitzroy River was
low, poison a pool with the barks of
trees. As the fish come to the surface
to die, Mr. and Mrs. Binghi help them-
selves to a decent feed, transferring the
remains of the catch to other small
pools. The fish recover, to be used when
wanted.
“Teleco”: What is the farthest south
crocodiles have been reported? They
have been seen in creeks at the mouth
ot the Fitzroy (C.Q.) toi many y ,
Wally Pankhurst, on his lone voyage
from Sydney to Thursday Island, had to
dodge quite a few of them in Pancake
Creek, at the southern end of Port Curtis,
more than 100 miles south of the Fitzroy.
One was reported in the Burnett some
years ago.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Is it trees or toothpicks Abo.-
ites talk of? At Baranup (W.A.) 40 years
ago one of the king karri was officially
measured before the axemen got to
work. Dimensions:
Height to top of branches 410 ft.
Height to first fork 160 ft.
Girth 4ft. above ground .. .. 30ft. lOin.
Girth 132 ft. above ground .. .. 20ft. 7in.
It made up into 146 loads of timber,
yielded 3000 sleepers and was used to lay
a mile and a half of railway.
* H= * *
“Bush Ped.”: Probably the principal
article of the redbacked spider’s diet is
the juices of the tender shoots of garden
plants, which would explain
their presence in gardens.
* =K *
“Anthropo”: In native “art
galleries” there is no “painting”
more common than that of a
hand, either traced in outline
by a charcoal pencil or simply
made by dusting ochre around
a hand placed on a damp rock
surface. Regarded by the white
invader as primitive attempts at
art such hands are really market
signs, indicating a rendezvous
for the purpose of barter ; the
symbolism to the aboriginal
mind takes form from the
joining up of the fingers to the
palm, and also from the way,
from being outspread, they can
be brought together—represent-
ing the coming together of sepa-
rate tribes. Added to this is a
mysticism attached to the sign
of the hand —which, of course,
is the instrument of barter and
the symbol of friendship, as
among whites; witness the
clasped hands which figure among the
insignia of many lodges.
* * * *
“C’est Vrai”: “Good eyesight?” said
Dave. “Me ole man had the best I ever
seen. Whenever he wanted a drink he
only had to walk into the middle of
the road and look down towards the pub.
His sight was that strong he could make
the bar look that close all he had to do
was reach out for his pot.” “Still alive?”
“No, one day he didn’t notice a steam-
roller half-way down the street, and he
was squashed flat long before the pub
reached him.”
* * * *
“Are”: More proof that it’s the king
of hardwoods. An ironbark pile placed on
a sill 23ft. in the ground as a support of
the Nashville (Q.) railway bridge has
just been replaced after 50 years. It
was as sound as ever. Also, the 9in.
ironbark water mains laid by Andrew
Petrie in 1839 and removed during the
excavations for the new City Hall, Bris-
ba"e; w « e not only sound but tougher
ana harder with age. Pieces sawn into
sections were like bone, and the fresh-
sawn ends had an almost metallic surface,
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: The milkers on a big
W.Q. station I was on were the first four
scrubbers with calves at foot that could
be turned into the horse paddock, once
a month. Each morning they were raced
into the yard like bullocks —on a station
the first qualification of a stockman is to
know nothing about milkers. There,
with a lasso rope round the horns and
the assistance of a black boy and a block
and tackle, Strawberry No. 1 was hauled
into the bail and secured for’ard and
aft. The boy squatted on his haunches
and milked with one hand into a panni-
kin. The other three cows were attended
to in the same way for less than two
gallons of milk. I would like to hear
Dad and Dave’s remarks on the pro-
cedure.
* * * *
“Orion”: Dad proposed using a gum-
tree as a wireless aerial, and after vainly
trying to throw a weighted line through
a high fork rode away with a sack and
a couple of dogs to where a dead cow
had been recently dragged. He returned
carrying a fat go. in a bag. After much
manoeuvring he got a line fast to its
tail and started it up the tree, a gentle
tug now and again spurring it on. When
it reached the fork a well-aimed shot
knocked it over, dragging the line down
with it.
* * * *
“Kriz”: What is the origin of the term
Binghi? The late Tommy Clark, who
had 50 years’ pearling experience in the
north of Westralia, once told me that
when speaking of a Binghi in earlier
days they generally referred to the
natives who had come from far inland.
When these arrived at the coast their
eyes were flybitten, and they always had
to be treated before they were of any
use to their white pearling masters. They
were at first referred to as “bungeyes,”
which gradually became Binghi. Feas-
ible enough, seeing that a wurly-wurly,
that fierce cyclone-like disturbance, has
come to be known as a willy-willy.
* * * *
“Surcingle”: Possums curiously favor
populous localities. In Belgrave, a tourist
resort in the Dandenong Ranges (Vic.),
silver-greys and ringtails scorn the State
forests in favor of roadside trees and
private gardens.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: The roughest road I've
ever been over is the Madman’s Track
following the overland telegraph from
the Fitzroy River crossing to Broome
(W.A.). With its sand, potholes, stumps,
stones and long grass, a detour through
the graveyard, in and out and over
countless thousands of antbeds on a
huge barren plain, it took us two days
to do 90 miles to Roebuck Plains, the
only habitation. When we weren’t brush-
ing sand we were pulled in at the Gov-
ernment wells burning the grass-seeds out
of the radiator with a blowlamp.
THE DINGO.
The lean wild dog of the scrub and plain
Is cursed as a killer red,
As we count the toll of the sheep he has slain,
And set the baits and the traps again,
And place a price on his head.
We call him a slinking coward that he
Should run from the sight of man.
Yet where are the beasts that will not flee,
Though jungle kings they are held to be,
Since the rule of mankind began?
The fossil beds plain records hold
Of the past, and their teachings are
That, while a hundred centuries rolled,
This red dog’s breed ran clean and bold—
The dingo has travelled far.
A hundred types, like melting fogs,
Were lost on Time’s long road,
But change came not to the race of dogs
That howled by the reeds of Jurassic bogs
And lived by the red-fang code.
A killer? Yes, much blood is shed
By him and his kind, but I
Cannot but feel, when all is said,
We have placed a price on a monarch’s head
We have doomed a king to die . . .
No snapping cur of mongrel spawn
Can match his pedigree,
No kennelled hound with his soul in pawn,
No pet at a master’s feet to fawn,
Who killed his meat in the primal dawn
Or ever man came to be.
N.S.W.
HEKOERT DAWSON.


LYSAGJfFS
m
PROOFS
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
LYSAGHT’S
Wire Netting Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
xk-ii*
M
\ ■
.!
«&£
" LYSAGHT'S"
WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
SPECIFY
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Turnips and Sheep.
“Rom Ney”: Turnips for lambs in
Maoriland (B. 9/9/’36) remind me of
W. Allingham, who uses turnips as sup-
plementary sheep feed at Llangothlin
(northern N.S.W. tableland). He car-
ried 580-odd sheep on eight acres of
turnips for two months. He has 120
acres of neeps this year, and there’ll
be 400 acres next year.
Allingham ploughs the land in winter
and lets it lie under frost action. Cham-
pion Purple-top is sown in rows —11b.
to the acre —from mid-September to mid-
February. The practice is spreading in
New England as a means of carrying
sheep over the winter.
Keeping the Bloom.
“Bullocky”: The C.S.I.R. has issued
a report on the causes of loss of bloom
in chilled beef which is apt to fill well-
wishers of the Australian meat indus-
try with a feeling of weary frustration.
The same causes were pointed out in
respect of frozen beef for years before
there was any chilled meat, but nobody
so far has taken much notice.
Everyone familiar with Smithfield
knows the Australian beef “discolored
in small patches where bruising took
place before slaughter”; also, the dis-
colorations due to “faulty stowage and
chafing on long voyages.”
These troubles are not unavoidable.
You do not see such defects in Argentine
beef. Neither do you see in S. American
supplies the loss of bloom from other
causes which affects some Australian
shipments. Mainly the trouble is due
to slow-coach methods and meat being
shipped from points which make the
voyage long. The Argentine gets its
chilled beef into England in about 20-22
days. The maximum safety-period for a
voyage is 45 days. The average voyage
of Queensland beef last season was 56
days.
It is useless for politicians and meat
boards struggling to sell more Australian
beef at top (or any good) prices under
these conditions.
The ships at present taking part in the
“wool race” to Hull and Dunkirk via the
Cape are expected to make the voyage
in a maximum of 33 days. Via Suez, the
newest of them could do the journey in
28 or 29 days. Surely organisation can
get Australian meat to Britain as quickly
as Australian wool.
Linseed for Show Cattle.
“Silky Bag”: Linseed is out on its own
for putting a real finish on cattle. Other
fattening feeds are good conditioners, but
none —with the possible exceptions of
peanut meal (partly expressed) and maize-
oil meal —come near linseed for develop-
ing coat, color, gloss and bloom.
The raw oil costs about 6s. per gallon,
and soz. daily may be fed to big cattle,
4oz. to dairy cows and loz. to 2oz. to
youngsters.
As it is not very palatable, it
must be thoroughly and evenly worked
into the chaff before any other ground-
grains or bran are mixed. These latter
should be fed at the usual rates. It takes
about three weeks for the oil to show out
on the coat by this method.
Another way of feeding which has the
advantage of fattening as well as gloss-
ing the hide is to use ground linseed
grain. This costs between 3d. and 4d.
per pound, and contains over 30 p.c. of
oil and 20 p.c. protein.
A big animal can be given lib. daily,
with 3oz. to 4oz. for young stock. Large
quantities of the seed should not be
ground at a time ; jn this condition it
does not keep. If preferred, raw oil and
linseed meal may be mixed —four parts
oil to eight parts meal—to produce
similar feed to the ground linseed.
“Why aren't you using the wringer, Mary?"
“Too tight or somepin—very hard Work pullem clothes through it!”
“Impounded Saliva.”
“Aerogenes”: Some calves around
Gatton (Q.) have lately been afflicted
with a swelling on the side of the head,
starting in the cheek and running in a
wavy path to the glands below the ear.
We have seen only one side affected in
each calf so far, and the animals did
not seem to suffer.
The cause is a blockage in the duct
which carries the saliva from the parotid
gland to the mouth. The calves are
being fed a mixture of lucerne chaff and
ground maize, all dry, and some particles
of this have probably been sticking in
the outlet of the duct into the mouth.
The remedy is simple, but not what one
might be tempted to do on the impulse.
The calf is thrown and the head held
tight on the ground, the affected side
down. The mouth is held open with a
block of wood between the jaws on the
upper side, and the tongue restrained.
With'a small, sharp-pointed knife a little
cut is made inside the cheek, where the
duct should discharge, and deep enough
to release the impounded saliva which
is the cause of the swelling. Some of the
accumulation can be squeezed out, and
the calf then let go. As it runs about,
the saliva will gradually trickle out and
the swelling subside.
Meatmeal for Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Not every pig man
can get sufficient milk supplies, but meat-
meal can always be had. Usually, there
is some milk available, and meatmeal
mixes well with it.
About ilb. meal should replace fgal.
of milk. The ration should never be
more than ilb. to ±lb. per weaner or
growing baconer; the smaller quantity il
lucerne and green feed are to be had, the
larger if it is not. Dry sows can do with
and sows with litters with from |lb.
to lib.
Feed as a mixture with skim or water.
The meal, of course, is an emergency
ration. Milk is far cheaper if it is to be
had, but the abattoir by-product, even
at its dearest —say 10s. 6d. to 12s. per
1001 b. landed on the farm —pays hand-
somely for itself in bacon production.
Early Cotton Pests.
“Marmor”: Cotton planting should be
finished as early as possible—by the third
week in October at latest —to have plants
well advanced before the critical dry
spell between mid-January and April,
with its corn-ear worm and other
nuisances.
Almost enough pests fatten on Queens-
land cotton to make up the plagues of
Egypt. Thrips, aphides, cutworms,
jassids, flea beetles, hoppers and false
wireworms all rollick among the young
crops. Last season a fast-growing colony
of rapacious brothers in the larvae of
the cotton web-spinner appeared in some
parts of the producing area.
Weed control is most important in
keeping down pests. Fields and head-
lands must be clean for at least a month
before planting. It is bad practice to
plough, harrow and plant in one opera-
tion, especially on weed-ridden land.
It is also bad practice to put in cotton
next to other crops, such as maize,
lucerne or tomatoes. Molasses, lead
arsenate and Paris green in quantity
should always be on hand so that if
larvae swarms arrive out of the blue, as
they often do, the right medicine will be
waiting for them.
Pineapple Hints.
"‘X.T.”: Years ago when I had an
interest in Queensland North Coast pine-
apple plantations, we "used to rejoice that
we were virtually without diseases. To-
day, many young plantations are afflicted
with “top rot,” and each year it seems
to get worse.
There is only one way to deal with
the disease, and this is the month to do
it. Go through every row and pull up
afflicted plants, cart them away and burn
them. Cure is out of the question.
Apart from top rot, the worst pine
troubles come from bad planting
and malnutrition. Don’t furrow—it
is a fallacy that a deep-planted pine will
give low suckering. Shallow planting
is healthier and gives better fruit.
Don’t put in old-plant butts vertically.
Lay them horizontally in shallow fur-
rows and cover lightly with soil. With
upright planting, suckers from top eyes
have no soil-rooting system and languish
for want of nourishment.
Fertilise pines in spring: 3cwt. to the
acre of standard pine fertilisers about a
month after planting helps stocky juvenile
growth and hastens production. On well-
set and mature plantations, make the
dose scwt. per acre. Water-soluble fer-
tilisers spread on each side of the rows
are best. Be careful not to throw any
into the pine-hearts.
Hints on Experting.
“Lion”: Nothing can produce sound
experting except a natural touch and
experience. But there are a few useful
standard points to watch.
Grinders out of alignment, which set
up vibration, can be corrected by un-
screwing each bolt, attaching them to the
stand in turn and noting running
changes. The post must be solid and
close to the ground, which means that
the expert room should be on solid
earth and true according to spirit level.
If bolt adjustment does not cure vibra-
tion, look for wear, bent spindle, un-
evenly balanced plates or loose bearings.
One cannot grind well on a vibrating
grinder. Altering the position of the discs
on the spindle will often remedy trouble.
When making up laps, set them in the
press for at least two hours, and place
in the sun for from 10 minutes to half
an hour, according to heat, before putting
on the machine. If possible, keep them
out for a couple of days before use.
“Green” laps don’t last, and leaving over-
night in the press causes them to sweat.
On no account use them fresh from the
press. Use glue sparingly, and only
fresh-season’s paper or cloth. When ex-
posed to the air for long, the cloth
deteriorates rapidly. Carborundum cloth
is the cheapest and best.
When hanging the pendulum, place the
holder so that the comb to be ground
will hang about £in. from the face of
cloth, and -jin. from the outside edge of
disc. The cutter side should hang a
little closer to the paper. It must be
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


11l
' >1
1-1 V "*'¥*¥*£*' ■ rf?
HERES TO EE
in t
1
t
TOOHtYS
w
J
»
Ji
B
!»«
>
X
»
-mm
r^i
'Oo
keys
WHEN COOD FELLOWS MEET
THEY ORDER
Agents:
TOOHEYS LTD.
VICTORIA: Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Standard Brewery, Sydney
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


SMART AND DURABLE
FOR COUNTRY WEAR.
Featuring a Soft Kid
Upper with Suede
Inserts, this moderately-
priced Derby Tie Shoe is
ideal for day wear.
It is extremely comfort-
able and the design is a
little ahead of the usual.
Stocked in full and half
sizes.
asdf
PRICES:
BLACK KID - - 35/
BROWN KID - - 35/
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.” W.A.S.
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
:
fiH
SSK
•V? \\ j /\W:h
K'M
rm
mm
f 2&
Wtfo
Mm
Jfefrlf
♦ws**
Be the design classic or modern,
flawless beauty, diamond cut and
sparkle, and exquisite symmetry dis-
tinguish every piece of Stuart Crystal.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold.
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. WahJers & Co.
317-23 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence St., Sydney
Stuart
Grqstal
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
s
H
"*W*OP
Wft
BUNNIES
BREED FAST
but Bunni-Di kills faster
The New Fumigant which is rapidly gaining
ground on old fashioned methods . . . Why?
Because . .
Easy to Use - - Handy to Carry
No Machine to Operate
No Baits to Prepare —lOO% Efficient
i
D. G. OFFICER
90 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE. C.l
INTERSTATE.
N.S.W.: CHARLES CLARKE & SON,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
W.A.: LEWIS BATEMAN, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
S. AUST.: HARRIS, SCAREE, LTD.,
Adelaide.
TAS.: ALLAN STEWART PTY., LTD.,
Launceston.
Q’LAND: STANLEY CHAPMAN, Brisbane.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
6AM
1000 WATTS
•
The
Happy Station
•
23 William St.,
Perth, W.A.
Wake up to the
opportunities that
6AM offers you.
The great markets
is received
EVERYWHERE.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
parallel with the horizontal diameter of
the disc.
Place the heel of tool on the disc first,
and apply gentle pressure, moving the tool
backwards and forwards across the disc
face. When finishing, return to the out-
side edge, and give a short, sharp central
pressure to complete the hollowing out.
All marks must be removed. If grinding
is perfect, the carborundum marks will
be almost straight across the comb,
giving the ideal grind with the longest
life. As soon as the cloth gets dull, re-
fresh by wiping it quickly with the teeth
of an old comb minus the rake-tooth.
Press gently, and take care of your
fingers. After this renew the cloth.
Flying sparks are no proof that the
cloth is still good. Slow grinding means
heated tools and bad edges. Take care
never to get tools too hot, for once burnt
they are spoilt and won’t hold an edge.
It is not necessary to change the discs
over to keep the tools level. This can be
done by applying more pressure to the
inside tool edge, which is always ground
slower than the outside edge. Test for
evenness with callipers, and correct by
pressure in grinding. Practice alone will
make you perfect.
Remember to hammer up the nuts
of a double-ended grinder twice, as the
action of doing one often loosens the
other.
Don’t grind improperly washed tools.
They spoil your cloth quickly. Whatever
the appearance of the ground tools, if
they won’t hold an edge either the cloth
is worn out or the man’s machine is out
of true.
When examining tools for unground
surfaces, twist into many different shades
of light. The marks soon show up.
The pendulum magnet must be good,
otherwise it won’t withdraw the tips of
the combs and cutters immediately the
pressure is relaxed. Result, a spoilt
grind.
Remember that a fresh lap grinds very
quickly, and so apply lighter pressure,
especially with cutters.
Farm Trees.
“J. Want”: Queensland Agricultural
Department is making seeds of fodder
trees available to farmers and graziers in
limited quantities.
The seeds include those of the kurra-
jong, saltbush (old man and creeping),
Portuguese star and carob bean —which
is suitable for the southern parts of the
State, the female trees bearing pods which
are fine stock feed.
The system should be extended. In-
deed, it would be a good thing if every
Western Queensland and Territory sheep
lessee were compelled to do a certain
amount of tree-planting as one of the
conditions of his holding. In my opinion
and that of a lot of competent sheepmen
who have seen it, the Barkly Tableland,
as well as much of n.-w. Queensland,
will never be completely successful wool-
growing country until it has considerably
more shade and reserve tree fodder than
at present.
Biennial Bokhara.
“A.N.S.”: The use of Biennial Bok-
hara is increasing on the N.S.W. Northern
Tableland, though many who have tried
it complain of unsatisfactory germina-
tion, while others admit total failure.
Some say it taints milk, and flour when
grown with wheat.
This clover should be tried on the
heavier soils, especially in districts too
wet for lucerne.
To ensure germination, the seed should
be hulled and scarified by rubbing it
between two boards on which sandpaper
has been glued. Another method is to
rub it, spread out thinly on concrete.
Care should be taken not to break the
seed, but rubbing should continue after
the hull has been removed until the seed
is well scratched.
It has been proved that, treated in
this way, 80 p.c. germination will result;
if scarified, but not hulled, 55 p.c.; if
neither hulled nor scarified, the propor-
tion will be only 10 p.c.
On better-class land, Perennial Red,
sown about 101 b. of seed to the acre
with some cereal crop (only, of course,
if the land is to be turned over to
grazing) is superior.'
Hints for the Farm.
“Diba More”: The Service Depart-
ment (B. 8/7/’36) advises the use of
nitric acid for marking steel tools. I
have tried this without success, but found
that if one part of muriatic acid is mixed
with two parts of nitric it will do the
job quickly and effectively.
“Murphy”: To prevent black scurf —
very common among this season’s seed
potatoes in some districts —rotate crops,
carefully select clean seed and treat the
seed on the farm with warm formalin
solution.
“Andy”: A necessary pig-feeding im-
plement is a grinder. A 25 p.c. saving
means a lot when the number of pigs
runs to 20 or more. Wheat will give a
greater gain, pound for pound, than
maize; a wheat-fed pig is picked out
readily by good buyers. The best way to
feed finely-ground wheat is to mix it
with boiling water, and let it stand for an
hour or so before using. Mix only
enough to last the day ; in summer it is
liable to ferment if left too long.
“Andy”: If the mower has to be taken
to another paddock over a metalled road,
a couple of old motor-car or -truck tyres
cut across in one place, fitted round
the wheels and held there by two
or three pieces of twisted wire will save
damage.
“Valerin”: Lucerne is on its own in
the fight against skeleton weed. Two
years ago I sowed 41b. lucerne seed in a
badly infested paddock. For the first
year it was a dinkum go, but now the
lucerne is steadily encroaching on the
weed territory and starving it out. Sow
your lucerne in autumn and help it by
renovating, top-dressing and judicious
feeding off.
“Win”: For one man to throw a horse
gently, use a surcingle with a ring on
the back and another on the near side.
Tie a rope to the top ring, pass it through
a ring on the halter, then back through
the ring on the near side and take the
end out in front of the horse. The off-
side front leg is lifted from the ground
and tied up to the surcingle. When the
head is pulled to the near side by means
of the rope the animal will gently go
down on the off knee, and can be pushed
over with no danger of injury.
“Valerin”: Melted mutton fat poured
an inch deep on the bottom of the shed
wall lamp will save a lot of leaks and
curses.
“Whalebone”: Before putting sheep
on rough or scrubby country, bell some
of the strongest. This facilitates muster-
ing, as the rest follow the bells and stay
in big mobs instead of scattering. When
the paddock is mustered, one belled
wether left behind will usually collect
most of the stragglers and save much
searching.
“Graduate”: In good-rainfall coastal
districts berseem clover is a great green
feed standby in winter. It yields up to
14 tons to the acre. A few paddocks of
berseem in addition to lucerne are an
insurance against fodder shortage.
“Jas. Lynch”: Soil drift (mentioned B.
29/7/’36) has been successfully checked
by W. E. Kelly in the Kilkerran district,
Yorke Peninsula, S.A., which has an
average rainfall of 14 inches. In 1931
marram grass and spinifex were planted
in a very bad drift; to-day there is a
wonderful growth of hairy spinifex,
which has proved a sure soil-binder. That
these plants are not good feed for stock
is an advantage in the circumstances,
since they are more likely to persist in
their more important duty. Kelly’s suc-
cess has resulted in his being engaged by
the S.A. Railways Commissioner to carry
out similar work on Renmark and Wai-
kerie tracks in the Murray Mallee, where
there are such bad dirfts that train crews
carry spare shovels to clear the track for
rail-car or train. The rainfall in this area
is much lower than on Yorke Peninsula.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is there any English or Australian publication
which gives current details of the London wool
sales —the price and brand of each lot sold ?
If so, where is it procurable ? —2950.
London brokers issue price catalogues giving
the country of origin, brands, numbers of
bales, prices realised, etc. You would need to
write to all the following brokers: Schwartze,
Buchanan and Co., 3 Morgate Building, E.C.2;
Buxton, Ronald and Co., 24 Basinghalj-street,
E.C.2; Balme and Thomas, 61 Basinghall-
street, E.C.2; H. Irwell and Co., 24 Clemn-
street, E.C.2; Windeler and Co., 20 Basinghall-
street, E.C.2; Hughes and Williams, 63 Alder-
manbury, E.C.2; and Jacomb Hoare and Co.,
19 London Wall, E.C.2. There is no Australian
record of London sales.
* * * *
What variety of European flax is suitable
for the Darling Downs to the west of Too-
woomba ? When to sow the seed ? Is there
any Queensland market for the straw (after
seed has been thrashed out ) ? Are there any
books on the subject of flax production ?
2839.
The Downs climate does not favor flax pro-
duction. Only high winter-rainfall coastal lands
can be expected to produce big crops regularly.
In favorable seasons good D.D. crops of lin-
seed may be harvested, but over years the re-
turns would not compare with those from
wheat. A dual-purpose crop is possible if the
seed is specially removed without damaging the
straw, the coarse fibre from which can compete
with hemp. N. C. Grigg, of Linfin Pty.,
Ltd., Redbank (Q.), is interested in this crop.
A standard book is F. Bradbury’s Flax Culture
and Preparation.


SMOKE-OH!
- Approaching Madrid.”
—Mackay “Daily Mercury.”
It’s just a gambol whether they’ll get
there.
•I- 4* *l* »!•
“ ‘Mental activity is greatest after 40,’ says
a doctor.”
It must be. Few bachelors marry
after reaching that age.
A 4* -I* A
“ ‘Barbers are usually good mixers,’ says a
writer.”
Well, they always seem to be scraping
an acquaintance.
4. •*-
“ ‘What are the worst ten years of a
woman’s life?’ asks a writer.”
Usually those between 29 and 30.
•J* »T«
“No work for 15 years and proud of it.”
—Brisbane court report.
An idle boast.
“ ‘Many financiers are money-mad,’ states
a reformer.”
£-s.-d.-mented.
*l* *s*
Caution.
“Oh, share my lot!” the suitor cries.
The modern girl, whose ways are not
So innocent, in answer tries
To find out if he has a lot.
Hame.
“From the gentleman in cabin fifty—how nice of him!
And I'm to see him on the boat-deck!"
General Congestion.
“A scheme has been arranged for relieving
the traffic congestion at King's Cross.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
An effort should also be made to re-
lieve other congestion in this locality.
For instance, there is our backyard.
It’s so full of empties that whenever our
guests fall asleep there they are compelled
to do so standing up. Also, it has no
room for our Alsatian, which we have to
keep in the bathroom.
Then there is the flat upstairs. The
tenant declares it is so congested that,
although he wants to buy a new hat,
he is unable to do so because there is
nowhere to put it. To make matters
worse, two of his girl friends have just
lost their jobs and taken up residence
with him. This makes things very awk-
ward for his wife. He would welcome
a solution.
Other types of congestion in this dis-
trict needing relief are that of the head
and liver, both markedly prevalent on
Sunday mornings.
T. W. N.
*!< *b *l*
Unlikely Statements.
G. 8.5.: “I have nothing to say.”
J.T.L.: “Afraid I’ve been wrong,
boys.”
Z.G.: “For real thrills give me sar-
dine fishing.”
M.W.: “Sex appeal—what’s that?”
H.
4* -I* *b *l*
Another Cliche Exploded.
“In Market-street, a stone’s-throw from
George-slreet.” —Sydney aclvt.
I had always suspected that, for gross
inaccuracy, “a stone’s-throw” would beat
“a minute from the station” by about
three lengths. To clear the question up
once for all, I took my own stone along.
After getting the cop on point duty to
hold my coat, I stood between the tram-
lines in George-street and let fly. I
learned:
(1) That it would require a discus-
thrower of super-Olympic standard to
get the distance.
(2) That the windows of parked cars
have a decided attraction for flying
metal.
(3) That stone-throwing in city streets,
especially Market-street, irritates police-
men to an astonishing degree.
(4) That allowing for solicitors’ fees
and fines it costs approximately ten quid
a throw to fling stones in Market-street.
P. C.
*!** -h 4* *b
Buying a ?.
“Correspondents in a Melbourne daily have
been complaining that window displays of
feminine underwear are indecent. Such articles
should not be publicised, they say.”
Mrs. Fitzbooble nervously entered the
great department store. Furtively ap-
proaching a shop
assistant she whis-
pered a query
into that young
woman’s ear.
The ass i s tant
blushed and
glanced anxiously
around. Then with
an almost imper-
ceptible gesture she
bade the customer
follow.
Together they
descended to the
basement and
thence to a dark,
little-used corner
at the far end of
the store. Pausing
before a heavy oak
door, the assistant,
having assured her-
self that no eaves-
droppers were
near, gave the
secret knock.
A small panel
slid back and
a heavily - masked
face appeared.
There followed a
whispered consul-
tation ; then Mrs.
Fit z b ooble was
subjected to a long,
searching cross-
examination.
Finally a small
package was passed
through to her.
“Quick!” hissed
the assistant. “Conceal it in your hand-
bag, or someone might see.”
Mrs. Fitzbooble fearfully obeyed, and
was led, quaking, back to the exit. Safe
outside, she heaved a heartfelt sigh.
“Thank heaven, that’s over!” she
whispered. “I do hope they’ve given me
the right size bras”
But just in time she caught herself
uttering the forbidden word!
Gee.
Honor to a Hero.
“An American hotelkeeper has ‘hibernated’
for 22 years—going to bed in the autumn and
staying there till the spring.”
The Secretary Late-Risers’ and Bed-
Lovers’ League, writes:
Here we have a man of really sublime
propensities and understanding. His
troubles about achievement, work, acqui-
sition, progress. Disdaining that fever-
ish hurry and scurry, that ceaselessness
which is the greatest curse of modern
life, he yields to his natural inclinations,
instead of, as so many less enlightened
people do, suppressing them, with disas-
trous results to the brain.
Such men are never dangerous. They
don’t become Hitlers, Stalins or Musso-
linis. They never undermine their con-
“Which is yer old man?”
“ Dunno , mister — that's what they're fightin' about."
stitutions, never tire themselves. Of course,
it is an inestimable boon, almost essential
in fact, to have the right kind of wife, the
obedient-slave type. Alas! They are so
rare, so hard to find. So many of our
members are married to large, aggres-
sive, bustling, nagging, bullying, buzz-
nacking, managerial women instead,
viragos who force them do be abject, to
be up and doing to a deplorable extent.
Going to bed for the winter is recom-
mended by our League as one of the
best ways imaginable of dispensing with
the inertia caused by keeping fit'. That
one worthy citizen has succeeded is a
matter for congratulation.
•h
Zero Hour.
“A feature of the Spanish revolution has been
the fearless participation of women in battle.”
For the fiftieth time Lola looked at
her watch. Others around her, she
noticed, were doing the same. The sus-
pense was terrible.
Lola’s husband had often told her
what it' felt like waiting to go “over the
top.” Now she was experiencing simi-
lar emotions herself. Like the others,
Lola knew there was no chance of
reaching their objective until a certain
hour. Then it would be possible to
storm through the breach in the strong-
hold. That was when the real fighting
would begin.
If only they could get into action, in-
stead of waiting! How much longer was
there? Only a minute or two, thank
heaven!
Someone gave the “ready” signal.
Figures stiffened ready for action. Lips
grew firm and resolute. Lola glanced
again at her watch. Exactly nine. Zero
hour!
With a creak the doors opened, and
Lola joined the excited crowd of bar-
gain-hunters who surged forward.
Jo.
Some Little-known Facts About
Russia.
111. — Its Modern History.
Peter the Third married Catherine the
Second, and the fact that she was always
one ahead of him cast him into per-
petual gloom. Peter’s death was at first
wrapt in mystery. Dr. Killemalloff, the
Court Physician, announced that he must
have tripped over his bottom lip and
broken his neck, but Peter’s defiance of
the best Russian traditions by dying un-
assassinated aroused suspicion, and there
were murmurings against the royal
house. It was not until Kate displayed
the bloodstained bodice on which she
had wiped the dagger that the revolu-
tionary simmerings died down.
Catherine was masterful and bold —
particularly bold. She once appeared at
a Court ball with only 17 underskirts
beneath her outside trappings. In the
war with Sweden she discarded two
more underskirts and led her troops
against Gustavus 111., whom she de-
feated. Gus was glad to sign the Treaty
of Verela, but whipped in a condition of
status quo ante bellum. Kate’s know-
ledge of Latin was limited to the belief
that ante had something to do with
poker, so, not wishing to display her ig-
norance, she consented. When she went
to collect the spoils of what she thought
was a victory, Gus triumphantly handed
her a Latin dictionary and a raspberry.
It was in Alexander I.’s reign that
Napoleon invaded Russia. Alex, fought
a magnificent rearguard action, keeping
his forces always 200 miles from the
French troops. During the campaign he
tatted 74 milk-jug covers and “nitted”
many shirts. ,
Napoleon’s objective was the Jewish
quarter in the Kremlin, where he hoped
to replenish his coffers by “Moscowing”
his war medals and Josephine’s trinkets.
Bnt the place went up in smoke and he
had to walk back with his army. That
is, the army walked ; Nap. rode. It’s a
way commanders have in the army.
Under the liberal rule of Nicholas I.
the emancipation of the serfs was begun
in earnest. In 1855 the first great privi-
lege was granted them —that of primo-
geniture. The serfs were wildly over-
joyed, though they didn’t know what it
was all about. Nick appointed a royal
commission to work out the details, but
their labors were interrupted by the 1917
revolution. The unfinished report of the
commission, which cost 468 million
roubles, was pigeonholed.
Alexander 11. instituted a great educa-
tion campaign, and at the end of his
long reign fully 2 p.c. of the peasants
could almost read and write. He also
encouraged greater freedom for the press
by altering the sentence for editors found
guilty of mentioning politics from shoot-
ing to being chained to their barrows for
life at the Siberian saltmines. He was
also Europe’s champion bomb dodger.
It is said that he practised for three hours
daily by standing perfectly still while
the Czarina threw pots at him.
S. W. K.
Mass Execution.
Mae, Susan, Joan and Geraldine
All shared my heart with Jill and
Joyce,
When Ann and Laura graced the scene
To further complicate my choice.
Then Frances weaved her witch's spell
And I was charmed; but ere I knew
How she'd enchanted me, I fell
Headlong in love with Helen, too.
Therefore I’m curious to know
(Since sharing love with ten’s no fun)
If Cupid’s chucked away his bow
And now employs a Lewis gun.
P. O. M. C.
Mauvais Pas.
Oh, nestle nearer! Let my arms
Embrace your lovely form again!
While thus l view those glowing charms
l feel that life is not in vain.
My angel sweet! I cry for more
Each time you thrill me with a kiss!
Oh, often have I loved before,
But never have I loved like this!
Enthroned supremely, far above
All other girls you proudly reign;
For I have crowned you Queen of Love,
My darling Pearl!—I mean my Jane !
T. W. N.


The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936:-
'ALL THAT
SWAGGER
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
DRAWINGS BY
DOUGLAS PRATT.
Chapter X.
( Continued .)
(HE moment came when Della’s absence had
to be explained. Johanna and he were
alone. Johanna made her plunge, her pulse
not so confident as her mien. Danny was
astonished.
“ls it a schoolmistress you are making
of her? Aren’t there husbands enough in
a country crying out for population?”
“What kind of husbands for those who know
nothing but to run after turkeys and chase crows?
They’ll be on the level of barefooted sluts from the
brothies round Ennis unless I contrive for them to
see something different. If it was not for Cooley
Hall in me own remimbrance, ’tis often I’d wonder
was I annything but wan of the savages that roam in
a tribe.”
“’Twas vinturesome to sind her right away. You
should have consulted me.”
“Consult the wind, and ye away with it!”
Johanna threw up her chin. “How did I know if
ye’d ever return, or return with ye’r wits: and me
daughters running to seed.”
“Maybe you did right,” temporised Danny.
“Sure, I’ll have the means hereafter to put things to
right, and you’ll be riding in your carriage before
long, me brave Johanna.”
Having gained the ascendancy, she continued:
“And me beautiful son, he must be a gentleman, with
learning more than he can accumulate from a rouse-
about.”
“We’ll consider all these things at the proper
time.”
Bewuck had prospered under Johanna. Wheat,
also hay, hides and butter, had soared to a fabulous
price. There was a ready market for eggs and
poultry. Even feathers were saleable. Johanna had
had money to send her children to school: Danny
was not so great a hero by comparison. Nevertheless
he had yarns of the Yackandandah, of the new colony
of Victoria, and of the bustling city of Melbourne,
alive with rich diggers and their ladies, tales of men
lighting their pipes with banknotes and shoeing their
horses with gold. He had sufficient currency to renew
leases at Burrabinga, to buy more acres around
Bewuck and make additions to the homestead.
Johanna did not allow her advantage to slip.
Robert and Honoria must also go to school in
Sydney. Danny gave his consent vaguely and as a
sop because he was wild to be away with stockmen
to collect cattle, now worth as much as £2O per head,
while all the world was demanding horses. He was
also eager to retreat to Burrabinga because of another
gift he had brought from the diggings and which he
wished to keep from Johanna.as long as possible: a
taste for rum. This had grown during long shifts of
standing to the waist in cold water until dysentery
became prevalent and rum the universal panacea as
well as a disinfectant for polluted drinking-water. At
Burrabinga he would be able to enjoy his grog as
did his employees, and would no longer refuse
their invitations to drink with them. However, he
never tippled to the deterioration of his energy and
industry.
Having his consent to the education of Robert
and Honoria, Johanna cheerfully bade Danny. go.
He stipulated that the other two boys should be left
to him to rear to pastoral pursuits. For the present
they remained with the new London misfit in the
school-house beside the bunyip-hole.
DELACY erected trap-yards and drafting-crushes.
Money flowed from effort. Urquhart, himself a
straight man, deplored Danny’s honesty as extreme
because he refused to confiscate the horses and cattle
that drifted to Burrabinga.
To Urquhart’s remonstrance he would say:
“Am I a horse- and cattle-thief? Sure, weren’t
min hanged in the Old Country for lifting a sheep,
and am I to risk destroying me character? You can
be a lifetime building a good character and lose it in
twenty-four hours by a single act of foolishness.”
His truthfulness was more than that demanded by
commonsense. Not another such horse-coper was
known from the Murmmbidgee to the Lachlan. When
vending he declared the blemishes of his. stock before
reciting their excellences. This eccentricity had some
reward. People in Sydney sent to him for horses.
Novices in buying came to him because he could be
trusted. He did not, however, grow as rich as some
of his neighbors.
Wealth was not to be wrested from the land
without more avarice than Delacy had. The earth
has her lean seasons of droughts or plagues, or her
times of surplus when demand hangs slack. There
were dingoes and disease, and, as livestock rose in
value with the discovery of gold, bushranging and
cattle- and horse-duffing became staple industries in
the wilds of Monaro. Danny was a heavy loser to
thieves who settled around him.
The family wanted more land around Bewuck,
with the mountains as an outlet, but Danny still hoped
to persuade Johanna to live at Burrabinga, and he
put up an abode to replace the burned hut and made
cuttings round the worst pinches. Notwithstanding,
there was money to bank, and banks of re-established
reputations to engulf Johanna’s hoards. She hated to
surrender her currency, and Danny failed to extend
her partnership to his cheque-book. Women’s part
in the struggle was accepted as their unpaid duty—
by women as well as men.
The making a gentleman of Robert, as well as
the polishing of Della and Honoria, was expensive,
and Delacy was constantly in need of capital.
Robert was the pride of Johanna’s heart. He
seized all opportunities for material gentility, and it
was her secret ambition that he might take to
scholarship and even return to Ireland and become a
priest. He favored his mother in features. He had
her keen black eyes and her nose—the nose of; an
emperor. He needed it at college when he found
himself in a class of select young gentlemen much his
junior in years but so far in advance in their studies
that they ridiculed him as a dunce and a country
lout. He had neither wealth nor tony connections,
nor was he fashioned to pound his way. Taller than
his father, he had the willowy grace that distinguishes
the Delacy descendants to this day, and the floss-silk
black hair, the delicate Delacy hands'with the filbert
nails.
No word of the agonising humiliation of his first
months escaped into his home letters because the
family were so sure that he was on a superior and
enviable plane, of existence. Nor would he admit
defeat while Della could remain at her exclusive
school. He had a weapon in his tongue and found
his feet as soon as his prowess with horses earned
him the protection of a leading boy whose father
kept riding and carriage horses. His mother’s
generous response to his secret requests for money
also provided a wardrobe which helped him to
victory.
His brothers followed a different routine. On
harvest days they were hullabalooed from bed before
dawn, and Harry was so drowsy that he sometimes
fell asleep in the wallaby-hole in the log fence on his
way to bind sheaves, and would not be found until
the other workers were returning to dinner at noon.
Danny had no mercy on these two children. He had
none on himself. He took credit that he did not ask
the meanest convict to do what he would not do
himself, an attitude eventually productive of national
hostility to genius or special rewards for any out-size
talent but that of money-making.
The education of William and Harry was of the
sketchiest, though not for lack of tutors. Danny, son
of a schoolmaster, considered tutors indispensable.
There was always a sprig or sere leaf of the upper
middle class acting as teacher in the school-house in
the orchard, but school hours were relegated to winter
nights or wet days, when an hour or two would be
set apart for lessons by the light of a slush-lamp.
The walls had wide cracks that let in the breeze ; the
boys were more interested in the possums that came
in between the wall-plate and the bark roof than in
the Wars of the Roses or Greek mythology, though
Henry VIII. was of masculine interest. The hours
were further curtailed by slyly turning on the clock
or by inveigling a nostalgic exile to read national
ballads.
The boys were tired and sleepy, whether the
harvest were ripe or only sprouting. Their evening
meal —mostly of salt beef and potatoes —was delayed
until they shot a minimum of sixteen possums each.
The possums came at dusk from the pipey trees near
by to feast on the luscious imported plant so con-
veniently set in their habitat. The boys had to be
quick or the marsupials scaled out of gunshot. In
the phrase of the day the eucalypts took two men and
a boy to see the top of them.
The pelts had to be skinned and pegged out with
hundreds of fine nails on logs or walls, but Johanna
would not let them encroach on places adorned with
the first “kag” of green paint, or its successors. Then
came the tanning and sewing of skins into rugs on
winter nights by the light of big fires. Each sewer
was rewarded by the price of a rug. Some of the
best brought £5 —a big sum when minors commonly
worked for their fathers without wages.
Sometimes a tutor would do his duty for the
quarter leading up to payday because in grotesque
surroundings there was more salt in occupation than
in idleness. Thus, despite interruptions and recrea-
tions, William and Harry had a little reading, writing
and “ciphering” and were literate for their day.
Harry accumulated stores of poetry to furnish his
isolation and nourish his spirit. Old expirees, casual
laborers, contributed tales that had descended from
the seanachies and bards of Tara’s zenith and earlier.
Some were familiar with stories of Cormac Mac Art,
the great king, grandson of Conn of the Hundred
Battles and son of Art the Lonely, whose reign was
full of plenty and such honesty that there was no
need to guard flocks or to bolt doors.
Harry, spellbound beside the roaring log-fires,
gave the honor anciently due to poets to their tales.
Endowed with imagination, he translated dream
people to his native forests. They existed for him in
the voices of river, wind and rain, or stood in the
shadows beyond the firelight—a company of friends
which made him love the night. They were of his
inner life which he hid from the profane. Oh, that
he could be a seanachie and recite the deeds of noble
men, and himself attain nobility!
Chapter XI,
THE time came when Delacy could
put William and Harry to the wheel
as adults.
A field of wheat that had
escaped smut or rust was saved by vigilance
from cockatoos by day and marsupials by night.
Much hung on the selling of this grain to a
mill at Albury for 17s. 6d., or possibly more, per
bushel, arid all was not going well with the
harvesting. Hannon, who was in charge, was
beset by cantankerous old expirees whose intention
was to pick a quarrel and put the onus of dismissal
on the employer. Delacy increased the ration of
grog but this did not pacify them. Hannon trembled
lest a firestick might be put to the garnered stooks.
Synopsis.
Allured by glowing reports of the
prospects for settlers in the still very
young new land of Australia, Daniel
Brian M. Delacy at 18 determines to
adventure forth from County Clare. He
induces Johanna Cooley, a year older
than he, to defy the joint parental oppo-
sition to their marriage and make
the voyage out a honeymoon with him.
They take up Bewuck, on the Murrum-
bidgee, and, later, Burrabinga, out in the
mountain fastnesses. The blacks, with
whom Danny is on good terms from the
start, give them for fosterage a little girl
whom Danny calls Maeve; and a young
aborigine, Doogoolook, is rescued from a
fire and becomes attached to them. Of
the children born to Danny and Johanna
in the early settling years five survive .
Della, Robert, William and Honoria
(twins), and Harry. Through a fall from a
horse Danny loses his right leg; also, he
suffers a head injury which leads him to
wear thereafter an enormous hat filled with
leaves, making, with his beard and pipe,
an odd figure of his 5ft. l\in. stature. A
fearful experience when the house there
is burnt down causes Johanna to renounce
Burrabinga and settle at Bewuck, to
Danny’s deep disappointment. Other
characters include Butler and the Full-
woods (who early tried to run Danny off
his holdings), the Urquharts, the Evanses,
the Moores, Hannon and O’Neill (former
lags) and Hennessy. At 12 Della is sent
by Johanna (unknown to Danny) to
boarding-school in Sydney.


The climax came when Delacy was rushing the
reapers to beat a thunderstorm. It was as hot as a
furnace in the narrow gorge. Flies and sandy blight
increased irritation. Usually the meal was served in
two shifts in the kitchen, but on this day the men
were squeezed at one table, and the reek of dirty,
sweating bodies, rank tobacco, cabbage and rum was
nauseating to all but the inured.
One man was given a seat at a side-table. He
tried to start a disturbance by flinging his plate on
the floor and shouting “I’ll not submit to the outrage
of being set apart because of what is past in my
life! ”
Delacy seized the gigantic tin teapot and made
towards the man.
“Pick up your good victuals, you vaygabond
haythen, or I’ll baptise you to me own taste.”
The malcontent, with one glance towards his
adversary, who was about half his weight, six inches
shorter and hopping on a peg-leg, fled the premises
for ever amid the laughter of his fellows.
“I’ll teach the unraysonable vaygabond to make
false accusations,” remarked the victor, with enhanced
prestige in Murrumbidgee records.
Johanna was still without her carriage, though
Danny now had two drays, and in these Danny’s boys
were to transport the wheat. They held back on a
rising market until the frosts had come ; then Danny
escorted them up from the homestead to the plateau
commanding a view of the ranges southward and
left them to make a daylight start on the Glenties
track towards that part of the road to Port Phillip
which served the upper reaches of the Riverina.
William Delacy, now nearly seventeen, was of
staid, dependable character, and his shoulder had long
been pressed to the collar of responsibility.
He was already clever at training steers,
horses and dogs. He worked with more
patience than his father but with equal
noise, and could be heard admonishing his
creatures a mile distant. He had his
father’s honesty but was more prosaic—
“more practical,” said his acquaintances,
though Danny was ultra-practical in acting
as he preached. William’s actions contained
less of the flights of the wild geese of adven-
ture. He thought more of the immediate
return for his enterprises, less of their
ultimate concern with destiny.
Harry, nearly two years younger, was
an eager laddie, slender as a wand, with
delicately chiselled features and Danny’s
blue eyes, with a drop of Johanna’s to
deepen them. Never were loins more slim
nor backs more flat than the Delacys’, but
whereas Johanna and Danny were a doll-
like pair, the men that sprang from them
were all tall.
William was conscientious, and Harry
squandered himself in the trust committed
to him. William had the best leaders and
polers, with frisky characters between.
Harry’s team was steady throughout. Four
or five mature spares, tame servitors, walked
free and disloyally (to their own race)
horned any youngsters into keeping the
pole-chain straight when timidity or rebel-
lion slewed them from the line. William
had been on a similar trip with Hannon
two years earlier, and would have been
accounted wanting had he forgotten any
turn of the way.
T' HE boys woke to an icy dawn with a
wind that would shave a gooseberry—
Harry’s words sweeping full across the
plateau from the high peaks down Monaro
way.
When they unrolled from their possum
rugs beneath the dray Harry saw a man
taking the bell from his riding horse. A
second man was trying to catch William’s.
These fillies were the reward of heroic
labor. Danny abhorred the vice of “horsi-
ness” and sold all his prime geldings. The
jogging about had to be done on the crocks
and slugs designated “dunkies.” But youth
will have its swagger, and these fillies were
the apples of the boys’ eyes.
Harry rushed towards the robber yelling language
that his mother would have asserted was unknown to
him. He kicked the man’s shins wildly despite a
couple of holsters in his belt. With similar disregard
of consequences William ran to rescue his idol. Both
lads had Danny’s fearlessness.
“You fine young pup! You fool! I might
have put a bullet in you.”
Harry was small for his years ; he looked childish.
The robber remained good-humored because his
Wellingtons had protected his shins.
You can’t have my filly!” screeched Harry.
“How are you going to stop me?”
“I’ll show you.”
Danny had not taught his boys to modulate
their voices. He did not modulate his own. Harry
clutched the bridle with a yell. There was a reckless
quality in the Delacy courage in its non-recognition
of danger, which often had uncalculated results.
Harry flung his bridle-rein over the filly’s ears in such
a pelter that the sudden up-jerk of her head sent him
sprawling in the swamp. Whack! the icy water
penetrated between coat and trousers. He was a
comical spectacle, feet in air, the rearing filly above
him.
The bushrangers guffawed. The boy was un-
aimed, his work-marred hands as delicate as a girl’s.
A kick would have thrown him into the middle of
? e . C u^ lnB W , eek ‘ He s P rar, g* up, dripping and
foolish but undaunted.
Hold on, said the man. “If you had your
paddy under control you’d be gamer still, but you’ll
-er make a pug. There’s not a wisp of you, all
Harry’s sensitive features betrayed a struggle to
hold back tears. William had reached his horse
ahead of the other thief and now cantered up to
see what was happening to Harry.
“Are you unarmed too?”
“Why should I be armed in a free country?”
countered William. He recognised the men from
descriptions and was prepared for the loss of both
horses.
“This young pup is as fresh as a gander,”
remarked the leader. “Are you going to enter the
fillies for the gent’s races at Bong Bong? Nullah-
Mundoeys, ain’t they?”
“Yes,” replied Harry, to whom hope had suddenly
returned. “They’re out of Cornet mares by Knob-
kerrie, and he was by Shillelagh out of Miss Nullah-
Mundoey, and she was by Whipstick, and then came
the original Nullah-Mundoey.”
“Good iron! I don’t rob little boys, not when
they’ve been flung out by old fearless Danny of the
mountains. He parades about unarmed. Tell your
old man that he’s flung a couple of pups as game as
himself, and that it was Clark said it. You can keep
your mokes. I’ll pick up a couple of the same breed
from them who don’t deserve them.”
The boys were elated by this encounter. It lent
adventure to their passage as they camped in frost
or rain and lived on damper and salt junk, cooked
by themselves at night. Harry survived whooping-
cough, his vocal convulsions having given more
amusement than concern to his fellow-travellers. The
boys had no warm clothing. A poncho of sailcloth
protected them from water or wind, as, unconscious
of hardship, they thrashed their way in mud or dust,
with bullocks that grew tender around the necks and
sorefooted as they contributed to the measureless
torture which advanced Australian colonisa-
tion.
WHILE the boys were toiling with the drays Danny
went to the township to take a packload of
skins and to call at the post office: During Robert’s
stay in Sydney his mother insisted upon letters being
collected at least once a month. A tutor was to be
selected from Hennessy’s hotel, where there were
generally remittance-men open for such a post. The
clergyman who examined the boys’ educational pro-
gress reported that Harry was backward, so he was
to renew his studies during the winter nights when
he returned with the teams.
Danny chose a soft young fellow in the hotel
yard, where he also became enamored of a carriage.
A queer shingle of military aristocracy had come to
inspect the country, in the township had been van-
quished by his cardinal enemy and liquidated his
carriage and four horses. The publican offered the
vehicle to Danny half in jest.
Here was the carriage which had been promised
to Johanna in the coomb near her old home. She
had given up riding, and complained of being a
prisoner at Bewuck. Danny decided to take the
vehicle home that day. All the talent of the township,
from masters to tag-rag and bobtail, collected to
guffaw at the odd team which was yoked to it, two
packhorses on the pole and two blood
saddle mares as leaders.
1 The pub grooms put the horses in with unholy
glee and the new owner took charge. He was
neither whip nor horse-trainer and had a wooden
leg, but through inability to recognise impossibilities
frequently overrode them. The two ladies Nullah-
Mundoey never before had been yoked to anything,
though they had had Danny all over them.
“Be careful! They may go mad when you
start,” warned a kindly onlooker.
“Arrah! Why should they? Child’s play to
what those mares have achieved and never showed
the whites of their eyes.”
There was admiration as well as baiting in the
rude sallies.
“What the hell will he do with a carriage in his
wombat gorges? Hasn’t a straight half-mile of
country to spit on.”
“He’s jumped to be a swell overnight,” sneered
an emancipist whom Delacy had rightly denounced
as a “vaygabond.”
“Sure, he’s as big a swell as the best, and
honester than all the others put together, only he’s
never concerned with houldin’ on to schnobbery,”
said the publican, one Hennessy, a big, fat man of
Danny’s age. He owned the grand hotel and had
lately risen to it from a sly-grog shop, which, before
hotels were licensed, he had kept under cover of the
little general store, from which the township had
been hatched as from an egg.
The chorus increased. As the yapping of curs
Delacy regarded it, to be dispersed by his horses’
heels in the clatter of his enterprises. Never was
being more indifferent to criticism, and he was as
far above scandalmongering as a lark’s song above
a snail’s track.
Flowers of originality in eminent men are
cherished by the mob as signs of greatness. Origi-
nality in the obscure makes them butts for
lesser wits. Danny in his loose slops,
clumping on his peg, was a leprechaun
figure. He settled his hat full of leaves
with the chinstrap jostling his pipe. He had
never taken time to ask himself why he
wore it thus.
“Taking any passengers?” someone
called out.
“Too many jackasses for me to accom-
modate you all, and I never make invidious
distinctions among me fellow-men, but you
can draw lots for the honor of riding with
me and be damned to you.”
He called for a chair, which Hennessy
himself brought with goodwill. From this
Delacy climbed over the wheel and took the
reins. He looked around and saw the tutor.
“Sure, make yourself a place among
the saddles inside.”
The young man obeyed, reddening like
a cherry.
“Lead out the mares till they see what
to do,” Danny ordered a native lout, who
grinned and remained where he was. He
would not align himself with a butt. Danny
caught him a flick with his stockwhip, and
guffaws against the lout brought volunteers.
The mares, inured to much, found this
too much. They reared into the collars
with hysterical desire to leap over the
traces. The men at the bit-rings had suffi-
cient neighborliness to act as a brake on
Danny’s recklessness. The black contrap-
tion with Danny on top scared the pack-
horses.
“Leave go now. A sound skelping is
the way to dispose a horse to harness.”
A second young man dived into the
carriage on top of the tutor.
“Sure, iver since the owld man’s
daughter came home from boording-school
the young feller has been squinting at her,”
observed Hennessy.
The door slamming startled the horses
to a mad gallop. The polers had no speed
that was dangerous on the straight piece of
road for a mile or two. The saddle mares
tried to buck out of the incommoding
tackle.
With a yell to be heard for a mile
in the clear autumn air Danny laid
the whip about the leaders and they sprang
ahead from the flaying thong. All the
loafers ran to the crest of an eminence. Those
with horses rode farther: not every day was there
such a lively clown.
Familiar and deafening advice soon assured
Delacy’s four-in-hand that nothing untoward was
happening. The polers were winded through being
dragged by the Nullah-Mundoeys. They bowed to
domination and hung into the breeching. Danny’s
disregard of anything but his purpose had added
another story to the records.
“It won’t be a week till he uses the carriage to
cart possum-skins out of the mountains,” remarked
Hennessy.
“I’ve never seen the beat of him.”
“Where did ye iver see his aquil? Whoi, Danny
Delacy could tame a woild elephant, and him nought
but a nullah-mundoey himself. Not a fear at all,
anny more than if he was made of Injy rubber.”
NJ OT at all timid was the young man pulled into
' the carriage by the tutor and who had called to
a mate “Bring my horse when you come.”
Gerald Butler, young native squatter, and Walter
Dillingham, imported, had a rough passage among
the gear until the mares were encrusted with sweat
and dust and their shoulders were growing tender.
One jibbed. Young Butler revealed himself.
“Wait a moment, Mr. Delacy. I’ll lead her.”
“Did you spring conveniently out of a bush?”
“Out of the carriage. I was one of the jackasses
who accepted your invitation.”
“Not so much a jackass, I’m thinking, as the
right man in the right place.”


The gratified young man took the mare’s bit-ring.
“He’s in a more manly situation than his feyther
was behind the trees waiting to see me cattle driven
off,” thought Delacy, but did not allow the father’s
character to prejudice him against the son. “Where’s
me other brave warrior?” he shouted. “Jump out,
unless you’re glued to the seat, and put a boulder to
the wheel.”
The man put a stone in front of the back wheel,
on to which, however, the carriage backed and saved
him from ridicule as a newchum.
“I’ll ride on the box,” said Butler. “When you
reach the pinches it will be difficult to use the brake.”
“I’ll have the lever removed so I can put me foot
on it.”
“You’ll want a coachman.”
“I like to be independent of help.”
THE dogs brought out the family as they approached
the homestead.
“A carriage!” cried Jane Hannon.
“At this hour! Mercy save us!” exclaimed Mrs.
Delacy.
“Father is driving,” said Maeve.
“He’s got himself killed again in some new way,”
moaned Johanna.
“How could he be killed and driving tod?”
demanded Della.
“Gerry Butler and a strange young man,”
announced Maeve.
Della withdrew to rearrange herself. Gerald
Butler was the most comely of the Murrumbidgee
callers.
“Where are you, me brave Johanna?” shouted
Danny. “Come, see the carriage. Now you can
drive around in comfort when you have the moind.”
He was at the foot of the descent across the
cultivation paddock. Young Butler was detaching the
drag while the tutor was investigating the damage done
to his hands. Johanna advanced as the vehicle
rounded the vegetable-garden.
“Wan of these days ’tis a circus in full cry ye’ll
be bringing me, and ye the clown all complete in
it,” she called with mixed emotions.
A real carriage was exciting when her circle had
not yet achieved spring-carts, but some little trap that
she could have managed herself would have been
more satisfactory. There was no stemming Danny’s
exultation. He had surpassed himself this time, so
took his pipe from its fastnesses to kiss his wife.
“Sure, ye’re getting to smell like a hogshead as
well as a tobacco-kag,” she complained.
“I’ve had no more than a taggeen, and it a day
past. I’ve brought a young man —sure, I forgot to
inquire your name. He can bring Harry on and lind
a hand when necessary.”
“The carriage certainly makes you the first lady
in the district, Mrs. Delacy,” said Butler, giving her
good evening.
The vehicle was placed behind the hen-house
and protected by a tarpaulin until a house of its
own could be built.
SIX weeks later Harry and William returned from
the wheat expedition, William unkempt and aged
for his years, Harry looking like an ill-treated orphan
but swaggering manfully and unaware that the task
had been above his years and strength.
Their exploit was soon dimmed by the home-
coming of Robert, his education completed. Johanna’s
idea that her darling could ever be a student would
have convulsed his teachers. Nevertheless he had
imbibed from his Sydney sojourn sufficient to gain
the ascendancy in his family. Harry basked in his
brother’s glory.
Harry had his father’s tendencies, and, according
to William, was “the damndest fool that ever drew
breath.” Notwithstanding this plain speech Harry
was fond of William for his underlying kindliness
and because they both had inherited Danny’s principle
and lacked respect for any but honest men. It was
to be some years before Harry realised this. For
the time, Robert was his hero and ideal.
Robert’s qualities were not defeated by gauche
self-consciousness. At bottom he was perhaps the
least generous of the brothers, the least affectionate,
but he was a better politician than either, and there
were perquisites in cultivating the affections of others
—even brothers. He thought Harry a greater fool
than did William, but, instead of mentioning it so
bluntly, made capital of Harry’s romantic attitude
towards him and life.
Robert was eighteen, the age at which his father
had married. Only a suggestion of beard smutted his
lip, but he shaved with ostentation. He could swagger
with style, an art denied to William. He was lithe
and a lightweight despite his seventy-two inches and
well-squared shoulders. The Delacys were racehorses
rather than cobs, of lean and wiry staying-powers
through Danny’s transmitted lung capacity and hardy
rearing.
There Robert’s resemblance to his father and
brothers ended. He had more qualities than they for
rising to eminence. He could enlist others. He had
plausible reasons for riding the best horses and
undertaking the pleasantest jobs. He remained the
darling of his mother’s heart. His manners were
pleasing after what she had endured from rough
employees and the casual Danny. She considered
Robert fit to mate with the Governor’s daughter.
The wheat-money and Robert’s homecoming
helped in Danny’s determination to settle in the
mountains. One deciding factor rankled. During
the winter he had come home from the township the
worse for liquor. His babble had wearied Johanna.
He was now forty-six and she forty-seven. She craved
peace. She saw Danny as an insignificant, ineffectual
old man, hopping on one leg. His once gallant
daring now seemed foolhardiness. Tippling made
him insupportable. She had outgrown or outworn
him and was as careless of his feelings as though
oblivious of them. In the subsoil of her consciousness
the fact that Danny was a heretic, and that she was
shorn of the shackles of her church, probably
operated: and years since she had had to relinquish
her daydream of returning in affluence
to the people of her girlhood.
“Ye’r a blackjack and tobacco-
kag combined, and I have no taste for
sleeping with such. I’ll make ye a bed in
the ind room.”
For a moment Danny felt old and
defeated. He became aware that he was
a cripple. He looked in the glass for the
first time in years, and was not reassured
by the unclassical features ambushed in
beard from which a pipe protruded like an obelisk.
The pipe was rank, he decided, and threw it from
him. He picked it up again helplessly. It had become
part of him.
“I am an old tobacco-kag and a rum-jar,” he
murmured in the smallest voice he had ever employed,
facing the truth as was his wont.
HE could have reduced Johanna to obedience. The
community was behind him, including the church,
and women themselves ; but Daniel Brian Robert M.
Delacy was gallant. He had been too active for
introspection, but he thought now in swift impres-
sionistic style. He decided that Johanna was a trifle
“touched.” It would have been termed neurasthenic
in later generations. She had been overstrained by
what she had undergone at the time of the fire and
the death of Kathleen Moyna.
No parallel case whs known to him. There were
women who had cut the painter because they were
“loose” or because the husbands were recognisedly
unbearable. In either case the odium attached was
crushing. There were milder cases in which the
woman’s health was a factor, but Danny could not
cover his situation by muttering about Johanna’s
health while she was announcing that she had never
been better in her life.
Her dumbfounding attitude drove Danny to the
township to a tailor —an emancipist settled there. He
ordered a suit “fit for a modest gentleman.” He
bought also a gentleman’s hat and had a boot made
for his delicate foot. When the outfit was ready he
rode home in it. The result was reducing. His head
seemed to have shrunk in a hat of normal size without
the gumleaves.
Johanna was convulsed. “Sure,
ye’ve shrunk
back to child-
hood ahead
of time. What
has come to
ye? Ye look
like Harry
in a false
beard.”
Danny
m u r m ured
somet h i n g
concerning the need of a suit when he sat on the jury,
and retired to change. The big brooch remained
forgotten in the pocket of the waistcoat. He bawled
an order to put the horses in overnight in readiness for
big doings, and bustled in and out of store and
harness-room until a late hour. A civilisable being in
a race largely composed of anthropoids—that was his
only demonstration.
Soohistrv supervened to comfort him. Johanna
herself would lose socially by her untoward conduct.
His aosence at Burrabinga would defeat the curious.
Chapter XII.
WF the withdrawal of land grants in ’3l
was manipulated by those with capital
Jit and influence, the Robertson and Duffy
Acts redressed the grievance 30 years
later in New South Wales and Victoria.
The small man was given his chance. The free
selectors closer-settled the vast empty squattages and
penetrated even to Delacy’s province.
Delacy applied for blocks at strategic points for
himself and sons. To fulfil the regulations he
engaged a man to build huts. To employ substitutes
was against the Delacy principle, but “dummying”
became an avocation, and through this Delacy added
to his retainers.
One day a forbidding-looking man of fifty
appeared at Bewuck and called Delacy down below
the pigsty. This was the man whom the Fullwoods
and Butlers had set to the work of beating Delacy
out in the beginning. He averred now that Delacy
was the only white man he had ever met, and offered
himself as a dummy to secure part of Burrabinga
run.
“You would be more congenially suited at that
with wan of your ould friends, Butler or Fullwood,”
said Delacy.
O’Neill then threw himself on Delacy’s mercy.
It was difficult for him to find employment because
of his bad name as an old lag who also had been
colonially convicted. His early patrons dared not
employ him ; they had to be more careful of their
respectability.
Rumor fitted to O’Neill the case of a man of
violent temper at Liverpool, enamored of a girl who
played with him. In days when horses were rare,
and he a ticket-of-leaver, O’Neill rode as a gentle-
man’s trainer. Pretty Kitty Magee led him on
shamelessly, and, like Young Lochinvar, he one day
invited her to his croupe. Kitty dissolved in giggles.
“Since last I was talking with ye, I’ve been
promised a carriage and pair.”
At that O’Neill spurred his horse on to her. She
was crippled.
DELACY saw in the Free Selection Act an oppor-
tunity for the outcast to re-establish himself by
selecting a horse-camp south from Burrabinga.
“Has he committed anny fresh crime that ye
exile him anew?” was Johanna’s question. “The
loneliness there would send a man mad.”
“Och, he’ll come down for rations once a fort-
night. ’Tis but twinty miles,” said Danny, who
feared not even loneliness, though of all men the
most sociable. “Am I not helping him to honest
indipindince, opening up fine country for the genera-
tions that come after? What finer destiny could
a king have?”
“The generations won’t be much concern of poor
old Larry O’Neill, and there are some not overjoyed
by what happens to them in dingo country.”
O’Neill set out with the sawyer-carpenter, the
three Delacys and the tutor. Permanent residence
was suggested by the quince and plum suckers on an
extra mare. Doogoolook was to put the finishing
touches to his foster-brothers’ education as unexcelled
bushmen who knew their fastnesses as no men before
or since have done. Doogoolook was as civilisable
as Delacy himself. As an afflicted boy in a strange
civilisation, he had been depended on by Johanna as
she could not have depended on a white youth. As
many another of his race, he did not fail in his trust
and has gone without medal or monument to add
to the rich aura of his incalculable country.
Robert remained at Bewuck to assist Hannon,
and Johanna was content that Danny should take his
goslings to the hills, where an arduous life awaited
them. Not only were there encroaching selectors, but
bands of fossickers treated Delacy to a gold-rush at
Bullock Gap. The moon would not long remain
inaccessible were it proven to be of gold. Gunyahs
and tents met Delacy on the edge of Burrabinga north
when the spring mustering took him that way. Before
many months, however, the seekers left for a bigger
rush on the Eucumbeen and their huts were a wind-
fall to camp in when mustering. Through them
Delacy acquired another picturesque associate.
THE snow was deep that year on
the highlands as early as June,
and one night Delacy was camped in
Stringybark Hut on the deserted gold-
field preparatory to meeting the boys
next morning at trap-yards fifteen
miles distant. He was snug in his
possum rug when aroused by a voice
too human for a dingo. It came
nearer. It reached the door of the
hut. Delacy arose and stood on the
door-log, clearly outlined by the firelight.
“Annywan there? Is it murder, or what? Speak
up!” he bawled. •
A foreign voice squeaked “By Cli, boss, give ’em
lelp?”
A tall form fell at Delacy’s feet. He dragged it
as well as he could.


“By damn! Wait till I get me leg.”
The firelight revealed a Chinese, whom Delacy
drew to the warmth, where he revived. His extremi-
ties were chilblained, so Delacy applied neatsfoot and
tendered damper sopped in hot tea. The stranger
then slept with exhaustion in his host’s rug while
Delacy himself lay almost in the ashes.
Wong Foo could not be taken to the trap-yards.
Delacy was a poor financier: the stranger’s health
was more to him than the capture of a mob of clean-
skins. Explanations were impossible. Delacy lacked
savvy in broken language. With any foreigner he
roared ever louder and louder until he was winded
and the victim bewildered.
The Tartar trusted his rescuer sublimely as he
was put on the “mare,” and was surprised to be
handled so stirringly by a crippled man. Danny
scrawled on the door in charcoal “Gone home with
sick man.”
Arrived at the homestead after a journey difficult
for both, Danny administered the general panacea and
bandaged the nipped feet and fingers. He placed
Wong in his own berth, as it was lowest on the wall,
and laid himself on the floor.
“What else would a man do, and calling himself
a Christian! No man has the rights of neighborliness
if he balks at color, class, or even character.”
The notice on the hut aroused the curiosity of
the other musterers, and their laughter crackled when,
later, Wong Foo’s face looked from their father’s
bunk. They had not seen a Chinese so tall nor so
magnificent of pigtail. At first sight he was ugly, as
non-human as a joss, but Danny insisted:
“He’s a whoite man, 1 predict. He has a foine
expression.”
’ “What are you going
to do with him?” inquired
William.
“He’ll make a mate
for Doogoolook,” piped
Harry.
“I turn him over to
you. Shall you tie a fire-
stick ‘to his pigtail? Use
your moinds—if you have
anny.”
“Oh, hell, I don’t know,” said William.
“By damn! None of that bad language or I’ll
take a waddy to you.”
During this colloquy Wong Foo beamed upon his
hosts.
“At any rate, he’s a nice, cheerful old cove. He’ll
be good company,” chirped Harry.
“I reckon he’ll be worth his tucker for that,”
conceded William. “If he’s kept lying around handy
he might come in useful.”
“A pity he’s not more intelligible,” said Danny.
“Maybe he’s full of enlightening conversation if we
could tap it.”
The Oriental mind remained unknown to the
Delacys, but legends indicate that Foo felt himself
born again as a blood-brother of the family, conse-
crated to that best-wearing fabric of the emotions —
friendship. The question of inequality diet noi occur
to him. How could it in light of Danny’s reception
of him? The unique alliance was never spoiled,
rooted as it was in the goodwill, the sterling character
of both parties, and protected by the inability of
each to speak too searchingly the other’s tongue.
“Missa Delacy belly good man!” Wong would
exclaim. His breeding was so good that he deferred
to his patron as he walked around with him. Doo-
goolook, at first suspecting a usurper, walked on the
other side of his foster-father -but soon grew friendly,
and the inimitable trio was long a decoration to the
district.
“I know!” shouted Harry one night. “Wong
Foo can drive the carriage you brought ma, and
Doogooloolc can sit beside him to open the gates.”
“Small moinds delight in small jokes,” said
Danny. “But you must be above catering to them.
Get out your books, now, and the tutor can exercise
your mental capacity.”
A STOCKMAN opportunely arrived who had had
three years on the diggings with Chinese and in
pidgin interpreted that Wong was twenty-six years of
age and had come from Canton, the City of Lamps.
“I thought he was a hundred, by Cli! ” interposed
Harry.
“He reckons he’s a chemist in his own city,” said
Aldon, the stockman.
“By damn! He’s a man of education. I knew it,”
cried Danny.
Having tastes above the coolies who came to the
goldfields, Foo desired to fossick alone on Burrabinga
run. Danny suggested other fields as more lucrative,
but the matter was determined for Foo by the near-
ness of the Delacys. Foo had left his gear in one
of the deserted huts and was sure he could find it
if taken back to Delacy’s camp. Danny ordered a
second mare, the most sluggish salt-lumper available.
“I never saw a Chow riding,” remarked William.
“You can see this wan,” said Danny.
Wong Foo would ten thousand times rather have
walked, but he was too surely a gentleman to say
so. The Delacys rode. He, too, must ride. There
for ever he renounced the peasant pottering with a
bamboo pole. With the yokels from Europe this
Asiatic was transformed willy-nilly into a horseman,
if not of one sort, then of another. With much
vociferation Danny got his pupil from fallen log to
the back of the horse.
“He’s going pale, by Cli, under the yaller,”
giggled the boys.
Even Danny was not above laughing, so ridicu-
lous were equestrian ineptitude and timidity. The
rouseabouts and the birds all around chortled
deliriously. Menura across the river mimicked them
all impartially. There was merriment in the taming
of a continent where even the birds laughed. The
Oriental conformed by raising a sickly grimace.
Doogoolook rode ahead, turning now and again
to show his noiseless grin. Foo held on to the pommel
and lay as flat as he could. His legs dangled, useless
as those of a wooden doll. Each time the horse
lurched from Danny’s larrups Wong thought his hour
had come, but he was stoically silent.
Delacy and he found the packs which had been
carried on a pole, and Wong selected one of the
deserted huts. Delacy had a squatting license for that
part, and Wong had a miner’s right, and thus he was
established both by law and goodwill.
WITH the boom in livestock two young men named
Angus came and took up the station between
Keebah and Burrabinga. It was called Birrabee by
the blacks because the sand of the creek was infested
with fleas.
“Hasn’t it been my ambition to lead the way for
population?” observed Delacy. “And, sure, covet-
ousness bursts the bag.”
If on the wrong side of matrimony, Delacy was
on the top side of the horse trade. He had been
improving his stud for years, and at the time '■of
Johanna’s disturbing action had a champion sire
Bewuck Nullah-Mundoey. A strain of Arab was
evident in his head and the clean muscular barrel,
and in his strength and speed, but the horse was
sixteen hands. On the flats of Burrabinga was a
crowd of fillies and colts ripening into walers of
reputation. There was respect for the Nullah-
Mundoey blood among spielers and stockmen.
The last of the tutors went,
leaving Harry in possession of
his library. The huts were up
on the selections, the new house
at the main homestead a
mansion of four rooms was
completed. Despite hard work,
Danny’s mind had been riveted
on the provoking frowardness
of Johanna in the hope that
during two years her tantrums
would have subsided. Bewuck
called. He drafted out the biggest bullocks and
maturest Walers for market and set out to be at home
for Christmas.
William and Harry were left at Burrabinga. Doo-
goolook always attached himself to Delacy with the
surety of the best heeler. Delacy had a fancy to take
Wong, too.
“’Twill be easier to tell the story with him as
illustration,” he explained, and rode out to Bullock
Gap to collect his second gentleman-in-waiting.
By this time Wong could at least mount on a
horse, and Delacy had supplied him with suitable
beasts at equitable prices.
BEWUCK was to wear a new air to meet him.
He had scarcely been out of sight when Robert
assumed charge of his mother and Hannon. He
laughed at the carriage beside the hen-house but
recognised its social possibilities and began his career
as a whip by training a pair of saddle mares to run
in traces. He further set men to grade the dray-track
so that the carriage could ascend to the plateau with-
out overturning. When he was ready he put Hannon
on the box beside him and drove his mother to the
township.
Then began for Mrs. Delacy the nearest approach
to happiness she had known since the illusions of her
teens. For nearly thirty years she had been dragged
after Danny’s roughriding kite, she whose ambition
was a conventional city existence. Her soul was sick
of colonising rigors. Squatting, pioneering, grazing,
bushwhacking—settling by any of its classifications —
to her taste was little above bushranging in quality or
status. Danny’s democracy was full of trials to her.
Coming from the educated classes in the Old Country,
Delacy was entitled to the best society the Colony
afforded, but he was destitute of social ambition. To
Johanna’s irritation, he allowed emancipists to climb
past him while he was a brother to any man who
cared to use his hospitality. Danny was a separate
soul and too engrossed in the struggle of home-
building to cultivate any society as society per se. The
haughtiest and the humblest welcomed him on his
sorties in his district, and he called upon all grades
impartially.
Few came to Bewuck, because it was leagues off
the main highway. “The raggle-taggle can’t injure
me,” Johanna used to think, “but ’twill be different
when the girls are ripe to marry.”
With Danny risking the necks of his two sons
in a wild region, she felt she had earned the right
to Robert and her daughters. Robert was up to her
dearest expectations. His years of schooling in
Sydney had made him as dashing a young man as
the ranks of the cornstalks —or native-born —could
show. The business of Bewuck, as distinct from its
labor, fell to him because of his address ; he arro-
gated to himself all transactions that took him to the
township on horseback instead of with the packhorses
and bullock-drays, and was credited with “having
a head on him.”
All the Delacy boys had wit, but Robert had a
tip on his tongue to prick dumber persons to his
purpose through fear of ridicule. His gallant swagger
took the eyes of
women, and he
had enough for
all, even for his
mother and other
elderly females.
He did not dis-
credit the bunyip
nor the ghosts in
the crossing ; he
was not himself
free from fear of
such things. His
mother could
now admit her
tremors.
The township had grown with the discovery of
gold. There were attractions for Robert in its hotel
parlors, and also in the bedrooms, before he left
his teens. He differed from the others of his name
by an embracing taste in wenches. Those who dis-
liked him —and he had more enemies than the others
put together—said he was a flash fellow, lascivious
with women. Flash was a man’s word, never used
by ladies nor of ladies, though they might be doubtful,
but it fitted Robert in his adolescence. Sly and unin-
structed, he was indebted to servant-girls for the most
vital education of his youth, and he shrewdly left
others to fight his battles. His staunchest champion '
was young Harry.
He warmed his mother’s lonely heart adrift from
family moorings, which had never found sanc-
tuary in Danny’s impersonality and selflessness.
Handsome and smartly dressed, Robert renewed her
life. His indifference to higher education was for-
gotten in the joy of his companionship and protection.
It was unthinkable to her that he should be squan-
dered on some hussy. In the absence of worthy
mates, she cultivated the least unworthy at Glenties
and Heulong. She encouraged Gerald Butler for
Della. Old Butler was unequivocally among the
gentry, and his ruthless financial tactics made him
prosperous. Della was rising in the twenties unwed,
which surprised her mother, because she was good-
looking and sprightly. Admirers were plentiful, but
Della was inhibited by a love-dream when at school,
where she had become infatuated with a cornet in
the —th, a spectacular dandy. He never saw Della
except en masse as the school crocodiled abroad with
its instructresses, so he could not very well have
reciprocated ; but the image of a smart uniform was .
a fixation in the heart of the girl from Murrumbidgee
solitudes.
DANNY and his companions dismounted by the
new stables one December day when the jubila-
tion of birds arose in the orchard and the voice of
the river and its hamadryads made silvery music in
an aromatic world.
“I’ve come to invite you to the new home, sure,
me country seat at Burrabinga,” he said in greeting.
“The Saints preserve us! Ye have a new clown
in your circus,” exclaimed Johanna.
Wong Foo bowed and beamed. He had gold
in his pockets to be made into jewellery for the
ladies. His hair had been cut in colonial fashion
to mark his adoption by Delacy. Johanna was in
high spirits. Some of her youthful vivacity had
revived, but Danny was not sure that she was welcom-
ing him with open arms.
“Sure, we can’t treat Wong as a serf. He’s a
chemist by profession. He will have to sit with us
for meals. He can sleep in the ind room. He’s an
educated man and a Christian haythen, if ever there
was wan.”
There! That would dispose of the end room!
He was astonished by the improvements. Paint
brightened doors and gates. The house, too, had
additions. Johanna had a parlor with a carpet and
a suite of the horsehair furniture she had coveted
years before. The earthen floors had all disappeared.
Danny generously admired everything.
When the evening meal was served Maeve was
unseen cooking and a girl brought in the dishes. To
these had been added a cruet with a dozen bottles
and a set of dish-covers. There was a chiffonier as
a substitute for the sideboard with the foxes’ heads
at Cooley Hall, and on it were displayed a toast-rack,
glasses, and an epergne.
The girl was a shepherd’s daughter. Johanna
was a disciplinarian in turning a gurrl into a surrvant.
Robert was at the head of the table, carving with
great swagger, and
at the end of the
meal he toyed with
a pencil-case in a
topside manner.
Danny was proud
of the way Della
queened it among
the teacups. He
repeated his invita-
tion to Burrabinga.
Johanna
laughed. “I’ll go
up when me car-
riage can bowl
along a proper
road. I’ve had enough of scrambling into that
backward place.”
“A couple of accomplished navvies would soon
grade the road.”
“I’d need evidence, me vehicle not to be bound-
ing like a corrk in a torrent, with men hanging on
to it trying to rescue it from the rocks, and me
rattled about inside like a pea in a pannikin till I
have a skin full of sore bones, if not shattered entirely.”


DANNY went to Johanna’s room at bedtime and
remarked conversationally “Aren’t you a little
severe on the girl?”
“A surrvant is better for being kept in her place.”
“But what is a servant’s place? What is anny-
wan’s place but what he can make it?”
“I’m furrm that a surrvant shan’t have my place,
and me to be waiting on her.” Presently she said
“Ye’r bed is ready for ye in the ind room.”
Danny was checkmated. “Wong Foo was to go
there.”
“Sure. Ye insisted that I should accept him as
a gintleman and an aquil at me table. You would
surprise me if ye would object to his sleeping across
the room from ye.”
Daniel Brian Robert M. Delacy could face a
charging bull without a tremor, but Johanna Cooley
had the upper hand of him. He retired with his
protege to the end room. He was unable to explain
that his wife was —well, by all the pipers, what was
there to explain? His business was his own, but, as
he snuffed out the light, he hoped that Wong Foo
would think separate apartments were the fashion for
husbands of the best carat on the Murrumbidgee.
TO disguise Johanna’s attitude from himself he was
impelled to extra energy, if that were possible.
He quickly discerned that too much time had been
given to elegancies and amenities at the expense of
fundamentals to be profitable, but excused Robert
on account of inexperience. Besides, he was so
perfect in his mother’s eyes, and so confident, that
Danny hardly knew how to cope with him. He
pointed out the top-heaviness of the youth’s manage-
ment. Robert plausibly agreed, and expressed his
intention of tackling various things immediately. He
had done what he could to arouse his mother. She
had been melancholy, but now she had an interest
in her house and garden and visited the neighbors.
The novelty of this bemused Danny for the moment.
“Moi! Oh, moi!” he murmured as Johanna’s
side of the case now came to him. He felt let-down
that she had not confided in him, but without rancor
looked inward and blamed himself. His disposition
was pure wool throughout. His brave Johanna must
have her desires in the homestead and in the house-
keeping. He would support them. Johanna would
by-and-bye return to normal.
He ordered a holiday to the township. Johanna,
Maeve and Della were to go inside the carriage.
Robert was to drive with Wong beside him. The
trip out of Burrabinga had so wounded Foo that
stoicism could not hide his state. Robert was not
brave enough to confess that he had been employing
Hannon as coachman, and Danny’s training made him
endure the Chinese.
“They’ll think he is my footman,” he chuckled
to his mother. “He can’t talk enough to explain.”
Robert’s Sydney years had partly liberated him
from local opinion. He would go his own way and
be damned to the criticism of the tag-rag —while he
did not come to grief.
Danny and Doogoolook capered around the
party and democratised the carriage. Danny could
have turned a hearse into a family coach without
embarrassment. The packhorses and miscellaneous
collection of dogs careered ahead into the back-yard
of Hennessy’s hotel, their advent enlivening the town-
ship.
Robert escorted his mother on his arm across
the yard to the entrance door and thence to the ladies’
parlor, winking as he went at the barmaid and the
housegirl. Another awakening note to Danny. He
had rarely been situated to take Johanna on his arm.
Geography had defeated him. Since the loss of his
leg he was no figure for a pageant of ladies in crino-
lines, but here was Robert doing the stylish thing. He
was waiting to do it again on the straggling street
as Johanna went to the general store. How happily
she bowed and condescended to the Fullwoods and
the Butlers, who also happened to be in town.
Gerald Butler seemed to spring out of nowhere
as he had sprung out of the carriage on the day of
its debut, and offered his arm to Della in imitation
of Robert. Wong curvetted near to Robert as well
as his infirmities permitted. He recognised the leader
of the family in its social ascent. Robert was inflated
by Wong’s deference and ascended there and then.
Doogoolook and Maeve were for Danny to
escort.
“Oh, moi! Oh, moi! ”he murmured, wistfulness
invading him, but only momentarily.
He boomed at Doogoolook. He had a repertoire
of signs, but in moments of stress could not contain
his voice. He handed sovereigns to all the women.
He bought everyone material for an outfit from the
store and ordered an extra keg of rum for rations.
He and Robert had entertainment in taking Wong
to the tailor and the saddler. Danny gave copious
advice, which bewildered Wong, who accepted Robert
as a pattern. He pointed to Robert and insisted upon
being a copy. What was the good of a flash turnout
to regale the dingoes at Bullock Gap? Danny boomed,
but it was lost on Wong. He was still young and was
having amazing experiences. He was nearly Robert’s
height, and was excited by Robert’s swagger. He
would have assumed one like it but for the effect of
the hard journey. He chose a showy saddle, and
Robert was flattered by this imitation.
“They’ll think he’s my illegitimate brother or
uncle when he’s fully rigged,” he observed.
“Humph!” said Danny.
Wong’s deference to age kept Danny well in the
picture too, and Danny was proud of Robert’s style
and “the head he had on him,” only, when he was
about to project himself upon the stage, Robert would
be acting a leading part, so that his father’s energy
returned upon himself like the wuff from a slackening
sail. He took a number of nobblers that evening and
was excited and loud in political and poetical disser-
tation.
The hotel room had a large double bed, but
Johanna objected to tobacco and rum as perfumes
and rested on an ottoman and let Danny snore by
himself. He did not snore, as a matter of fact.
Johanna’s contempt sobered him and he lay awake
and planned immediate return to Burrabinga. He
had meant to spend the summer at Bewuck but how
decided that too much awaited him in the mountains
and that Hannon and Robert could be left to carry
on as before.
At breakfast next morning he said to Della “Can
you be ready to come to Burrabinga with me and
housekeep?”
Gerald Butler looked at Della, so she said she
would love to go, for the effect on the young man.
“Are you going to drive up, Mr. Delacy?” he
inquired. “You will need me to hang on to the vehicle
again?”
“There’s always need for a good man annywhere,”
said Danny. “Why don’t you take up a run on the
other side of me? There’s a crowd bound that way
now, and I’d sooner the dayvil I know.”
“I shall take a look at it, at any rate,” said Gerald.
Johanna believed that mar-
riage was the natural end of
women, but was not disturbed by
Della’s indifference to her suitors.
All the district could see that she
had numerous chances. Johanna
defended her with many a quip
when people rallied her on re-
maining unwedded, and had a
dream about her ultimate disposal
which had been transferred from
Robert. A handsome daughter
who could have married well would be a more
desirable bride of the church than a disappointed
failure.
I
DELLA was relieved to be going to Burrabinga.
Inquiries as to whether she intended Honoria to
outstrip her were not enough to drive her into
marriage without love, but she would be glad to
escape them. Her mother was acquiescent. Della
would mature safely at Burrabinga, and Honoria
would be home from Sydney at Easter. Johanna
insisted that Bella Rafferty, the girl she had trained,
should go with Della.
“She must have wan of her own sex, not to be
imprisoned in that lost hole with only a black and
a haythen, and ye’r feyther lacking the circumspection
of an eft.”
Bella was avid for adventure with Miss Della
and rode gaily by her side, with Doogoolook and
Wong as equerries. Gerry Butler suffered Danny’s
conversation.
The Urquharts held them two days for company.
Danny had much talk with Urquhart. Agnes and
Janet, Jessie and Donald were eager for the second
generation of Delacys. The young men showed
Gerry that he could not have the accomplished Della
to himself. Also present were Tom and Ned Angus.
Tom was the smart young man from the Victorian
side of Monaro who had taken Birrabee, between
Urquhart and Delacy. Ned was fourteen, but already
with a noticeable moustache. He became page to
Della, who used the sunny, good-natured boy to keep
her adult admirers at a distance.
Doogoolook took Danny away behind the stables
and staged a pantomime of a man with a revolver,
using the signs for a bad man. Danny grasped that
neither Tom nor Ned was bad but had a bad man
behind them. He put the charitable construction
on it.
“It’s wan of those things that will have to develop
or die out,” he said.
It was in the maturing pattern of his life, which,
so far, had been as uncomplicated as a windlass.
With the arrival of Della and
her maid Burrabinga became civil-
ised. The place was no longer
inaccessible and did not remain
remote with two pretty young
women singing about a house with
girly curtains on glass windows,
“crockery” on shelves, a white
tablecloth for meals, and boards on
the main floors.
Gerald stayed a week, watching
Della and doting on her house-
keeping.
“Surely,” he mused, “she must
take me soon now for fear of being
an old maid.”
Chapter XIII .
WN his transition from parent of nestlings
I to middle-aged man maintaining his
J| ( manhood among maturing sons Delacy
ran parallel with the progress of the
colony.
conditions generally were against the squattoc-
racy entrenching itself as a squirearchy. The
squattocracy it had to remain, with the difference
between the Australian bush and the English county
so firmly marked that the Australian squatter and his
missus—save in lamentable examples—have always
been noted for a physical independence, a dignified
ability to fend for themselves resembling that of the
higher animal world.
Thus, in attacking with singlehanded hardihood
the wilderness beyond the fringe of the transplanted
squirearchy, Delacy was a symbol and a portent of
an Australia which still pecks at its shell a hundred
years after his- arrival.
Absence of backward breeds abolished the
flunkey class: the transformation of the peasant
element was the contribution of the horse. No man
can remain a peasant and go a-horse. Willy-nilly the
blood saddle-horse will limber him out of his peasant
characteristics. This four-footed brother cannot
supply what Nature omitted and liven dunces into
intelligence, but she can change their bovine peculi-
arities into those of jockeys or Caballeros of sorts.
Horses! Horses!
The whole population took to horse. Wishes
were horses from the ’forties onward.
Those congenitally unsuited to excel in horse-
manship nevertheless climbed on to nags and were
forbearingly carried about. Even Delacy’s Chinaman
used an aristocratic Nullah-Mundoey. The stodginess
of the yokels from Europe was swiftly massaged into
something more flexible. The bumpkin was exercised
towards a swagger. The galoot, for good or ill, was
transformed into a stockrider, a jockey, a spieler, a
drover, a horse-breaker, a horse-coper, a horse-
breeder —a caballero of one kind or another. He
plodded no more on foot, not even in infancy, nor
preceding that. Only derelicts walked.
The man at one with light horses may be a brave,
dashing gentleman at large, a cavalry officer at heel,
a soulless, undersized simian, or any of the inter-
mediate grades, but he ceases to be a peasant. Aus-
tralia has remained a peasantless Commonwealth, a
peonless community.
Cavalier qualities were heightened in the Aus-
tralian by the class of horses available. He rofle no
mustangs with strawberry hides borrowed from their
horned brothers, but animals with a dash of good
blood. The brumby of Australian beginnings was an
escaped blood on one side of his family tree. Never-
theless, the dearth of menials, which forced pioneer
tasks upon the squatter, likewise saved the yokel from
developing into a full-blown caballero. The Austra-
lian horseman lacked the leisure and the arena
furnished with peons and flunkeys in which to develop
picturesque flourish in manners and to pursue amour
as a fine art. Complementary to his responsibilities
as wood-and-water joey and general rouseabout, all
the pioneer women who pulled their weight on the
frontier had to cope with toil which in Great Britain
was relegated to “general slaveys.”
The roughrider had little time fbr serenades and
genuflections, his lady less to accept them. That,
perhaps, is why the Australian has been described
as the world’s worst lover, though he developed his
own commendable qualities and habits. Australian
women, though inured to hardship and deprivation,
had true mateship and the large measure of marital
faithfulness attendant upon monogamy enforced by
conditions: the dignity of equal citizenship was early
theirs.
Daniel brian Robert m. delacy, free-
man by the accident of parentage as well as by
the richer endowment of mental and spiritual inde-
pendence, reared his family when the colonies were
expanding towards commonwealth —not, however, to
be consummated until fifty years later —and he reared
them on horseback.
The Delacys were woven into the great days of
the horse, when all release, romance, adventure,
travel hung on his withers. His usage demanded
ability and daring and
included all the exhilarat-
ing swagger invested in
furnishing the superbest of
creatures in hogskin and
silver. His was a high
destiny which remained
unchallenged for half a
century.


The Australian Alps came near to being populated
in the decades succeeding the gold-rushes. Not only
were there squatters, selectors and fossickers ; horse-
shooters were present to do away with thousands of
horses for their tails ; there were kangaroo-shooters
and those who slaughtered the lyrebird for his
feathers.
No one thought of conserving anything. Men
worked to the limit, grunting with effort. Women
bore children without restraint and thought it God’s
will. When jellied, flyblown backs had the sanction
of society there was no tenderness towards animals,
no artistic and scientific realisation that in Australia’s
living unique flora, fauna and avi-fauna were master-
pieces beyond anything she can ever contribute to
museums and galleries. Here was a wonder-continent,
a vast Garden of Eden free from sin and disease, left
intact by,the aborigines; the aim was to rifle it,
exploit it in greedy haste.
People unable to project themselves beyond the
ancient soulcase wrought for them by the inspired
members of their race through a hundred generations
in Europe were driven by their immediate needs to
uproot Australia, to tame it into a semblance of
familiar fields and towns. And there was abundance
for all. Fire the forests, destroy them, man was
merely as an ant against them. Millions of square
miles of the stateliest trees in creation remained.
Exterminate Menura for his tail regardless of his
powers of mimicry. Snare and trap the possums, the
kangaroos and all the marsupial tribes, droves of them
still appeared. Nemesis was not in that generation,
nor in the next.
That generation earned by sweat, endurance and
deprivation the right to a harvest of some kind, salted
with a little swagger. It lies forgotten now while a
less-inspired host of exploiters, without hard toil,
reaps where the old hands blazed the track in sturdy
if ignorant hardihood.
The influence of the Urquhart girls, and Della
and her handmaiden Bella Rafferty, was to transform
the hobbldehoys of their runs into blades who gave
time to boots and horse-gear and naive and sometimes
obscene speculation upon the mysteriousness of
woman. Tom Angus was a, model. He had travelled
and knew the Victorian side and Port Phillip as well
as Port Jackson. Down about Rose Hill and Liver-
pool he had learned the niceties of pacing horses, the
social graces of addressing ladies without utter con-
fusion, and he set the fashion in all that swagger
beyond the Murrumbidgee.
Chapter XIV .
EOBERT’S career at Bewuck revived
his mother’s courage.
“One door never shuts but an-
other opens,” he observed.
The shut door was that of her friend
Mr. Moore, who had protected her through the years.
The old gentleman had died during Robert’s final term
at college, and Johanna’s youthful annoyance had sold
Bandalong Station and departed for Dublin.
The new door opened by grace of Robert. Mrs.
Delacy ascended from her gorges to take her place in
the pastoral society of the country that stretched away
to Goulburn on one side and Monaro on the other.
It had chafed her to be held back to take the dust
of expirees. Danny’s notion that a man should be
judged by character, regardless of financial or social
success, was to Johanna rankly foolish. Who was
Danny to judge men? He had no special rights in
divination. It had been lively enough for him, leather-
ing about the country, but she had been restricted to
uncouth loneliness beside the waterhole of evil reputa-
tion in the sombre river with its lorn casuarinas.
Robert took her to call on the Butlers of Glenties
and on the new and stylish owners at Quebarra and
Bandalong. She had the satisfaction of refusing her
acquaintance to Mrs. Wells, farther up the river,
because her father had been a convict. When the
river permitted, Robert set her on a gentle horse and
visited the Fullwoods of Heulong.
The Fullwoods displayed the portrait of an
ancestor in an Elizabethan ruff, as well as a sword,
and a few pieces of table-silver bearing a crest, and
were authentically from the flanges of the squirearchy.
In the Heulong family were two daughters of
suitable age for Robert, who was not at first aware
of his mother’s hopes, though the association pleased
him because he, too, found his father’s democratic
eccentricities distasteful.
His manner was so gallant that it was taken for
amorous intention by Grace Fullwood, but little
Molly McCathie at Hennessy’s pub was more
seductive. She was generous, and Robert was a taker
of all gifts from women. The tall, insipid Grace, with
a nose like his own, only sharper, and weak blue eyes
and sandy hair, was outclassed by the plump and
ticklesome Molly of the button-nose and darting wit.
She was merely the orphaned niece of the publican,
but that gentleman had orthodox Irish ideas for her
behavior and kept a shrewd eye on her admirers.
Maidens were in demand, and Hennessy had ambi-
tions.
Robert was developing a thriving business in
harness horses. He coveted a gig and tandem with
which to eclipse a e bullet-headed young man from one
of the big stations down the Murrumbidgee beyond
Wagga Wagga. Once having seen such a turnout he
wearied of the carriage, and at that date the horses
bolted with it and broke a window and sprained an
axle. Many turkeys would be needed to pay for a
gig, but chance fell Robert’s way. A messenger from
Burrabinga brought instructions to sell the surplus
horned cattle and leave Bewuck for topping-up beasts
that were coming down. Robert kept the money from
a steer he sold to a teamster and told his mother that
Hennessy had found a gig for the sum of her turkey-
money.
Robert trained a likely pair, and when he went
for the gig his handling of them up and down the
street, and curving in and out of the pub’s back-yard,
was so capable that Hennessy consented when Robert
invited Molly to a ride with him.
“Git up to no foolery, and stay widin soight of
me,” said Hennessy. This was a concession to prop-
riety so that Molly’s matrimonial stock should not
be lowered.
Molly put on her new leg-
horn bonnet, her shawl and
mittens, mounted a chair and
into the gig with ostentatious
modesty in handling her skirts.
Her heart fluttered. Robert was
the most striking young man in
the district, with his aquiline
profile and Johanna’s eyes
grown blacker and more
piercing. He could not ride as
well as his brothers, but only
those who came to equestrian issues with him suspected
this. He rode the most showy of the Nullah-
Mundoeys and had the finest tackle and boots and
breeches, and with his willowy grace was the perfect
figure of a horseman, like the Magyars of old.
. Hennessy saw Robert as a profitable catch, if
nothing better came within reach. Old Delacy was
too white a man to grow rich like some of the
squatters, but Bewuck would fall to the eldest son,
already in possession. The profits to be made from
fools by pubbing could add to it.
Hennessy was growing rich, and he craved posi-
tion. He remained unmarried because the women
available would not advance him socially. He longed
for Molly to marry into one of those families which
had snubbed him as a lag, a terrier from the bogs of
Ireland, and a publican. Delacy had been neither
familiar nor superior but had treated Hennessy as he
did all men. Hennessy was well-disposed towards the
Delacy breed. So he allowed Molly to christen the
gig and got Robert on his books with an advance
for it.
HONORIA, shortened to Norah, had also been some
time at home, her education Completed, her life
begun, and Stewart Butler, brother of Gerald, was
among the most frequent callers at Bewuck.
Gerald went to Burrabinga, but Della remained
unmoved by his pleas. She enjoyed her position in
charge of a house of her own, with no husband to
dictate to her, and free from childbearing. Bella
Rafferty found life with Miss Della a holiday and
queened it in a kitchen full of admirers. Bella was
more popular than her mistress and had nearly as
good a chance of marrying into the squattocracy as
Molly McCathie had at the pub.
There was facetious “teasing” when James Full-
wood appeared every Saturday night. He was the
bachelor and younger brother of Charles at Heulong
and held a rough run near Wong Foo. He was
attributed to Della and Bella in turn. Della repudi-
ated the imputation with scorn. Bella tried to ape
her, but furious blushes defeated her.
Danny discouraged that kind of raillery. “Arrah!
’Twould be better to occupy your moinds with some-
thing essential. What James Fullwood likes is a
good dinner cooked and laid out by a woman after
a week of beef and damper on a log. A few soft
words in anny direction is little to pay for it and
comes natural to bachelors, old or young—more to
the old than the young, I’m thinking. They’re more
brazen in the horn.”
Bella resented this. Her pate harbored an
apothegm concerning an old man’s darling. She
resented having to eat in the kitchen when all the
men were agreed that she was much prettier than
Della. It looked as if Della might be an old maid —
a failure and a disgrace.
Nor did Danny approve of Bella eating in the
kitchen. It increased his burden as chaperon, as in
his day virginity was guarded by eternal vigilance.
The girls shared one bedroom for safety, but Johanna
decreed that Bella should be kept in her place for
meals, otherwise both girls would be recalled. Johanna
said that while there was breath in her body she
would not submit to her daughters being ruffians as
well as “haythens.” Danny yielded more to Johanna
in her recalcitrance than he had done since the larks
sang loud and high to them at Cooley Hall.
Della’s early fixation remained. Her ideal was
an urban life with a sleek city man. The bush had
not quickened her imagination and she absorbed
nothing from its differences to add to her natal endow-
ment. She liked the Anguses best of the circle. Tom’s
manners, alert to the verge of flourish, appeased her
romantic idea of what a gentleman should be to a
lady. Young Ned, now advanced to a full moustache,
remained her devoted page.
Tom and Ned were rich, with girls on both sides
of them when girls were scarce. There was room for
them all and plenty of livestock to be captured by the
resourceful. Danny stuck to walers. The Anguses
had a rare beast named Bedouin, advertised as pure
Arab, with a perfect head and a crest as lordly as the
English thoroughbreds. He had no flaw except a too-
feminine head.
The two breeders did not tread on each other’s
skirts. The Anguses worked up a reputation for polo
ponies, and they and the Delacys once chartered a
ship to take their horses direct to Calcutta. Tom
Angus and Robert fell into fervent friendship, with
their love of showy horses as a bond. Robert saw
the possibilities of the Bedouins as harness horses for
small vehicles and coveted a tandem for his gig ; but
there would be trouble with father, who had a mania
for big horses, like his notion of an over-roomy hat
filled with leaves and a large boot padded with cloth
—the Prince Alberts of the derelicts.
“With wan leg wouldn’t ye find a smaller horse
easier to climb on?” Johanna would demand.
“Och, 1 like to be where 1 can look around, not
crawling around with the efts and ants.”
Robert and Tom called on the Butlers and Full-
woods and did the township in company. Tom was
charmed by Molly, and she seemed to favor him more
than Robert, but Hennessy did not
encourage Tom. He knew just
what the Delacys were and were
not. In Tom he saw a young man
as astute as himself, and who, like
himself, never mentioned his ante-
cedents.
AT this time Mrs. Fullwood’s
sister came to Heulong, Mrs.
Euphemia Fitzhugh, the widow of
a major of Crimean fame, a topside
lady in her own estimation, who
gave a social fillip to her relatives.
Her crinolines and ringlets, her
bracelets and shawls, were the
twitter of the district.
Mrs. Delacy and Mrs. Fitzhugh met in the parlor
c* Hennessy’s hotel, which ascended socially with the
widow’s arrival. It was regarded as a palace since
a recent addition of a wing of two storeys.
“Sure,” said Danny. “There is a man who sees
ahead. Hennessy is going to be the biggest man in
the district.”
“If he gets any fatter he will be able to show
himself in a circus,” said Johanna.
“Och, woman, there’s no sense in you.”
“His brogue would carry a horse,” said Johanna
contemptuously.
Danny chortled. “You think yourself has less
brogue than Hennessy, and I think I have less than
you, but outsiders would lump us all together.”
“Only those who don’t know a grape from a
gooseberry would be so ignorant,” maintained
Johanna.
Johanna was over-impressed by Euphemia Fitz-
hugh, so long had she been exiled from gentility and
so eager was she to offset Danny’s oddity in practice
of equality. Mrs. Fitzhugh was recruiting an army
of satellites and was condescendingly gracious.
Hennessy had long been looking for a widow suitable
to further his secret ambition and eyed this one as
he might a likely blood mare. He ambled up on all
occasions and was excessively ingratiating. The lady
encouraged him. She was of the Old Country school
and felt that she conferred favor and happiness on
any members of the lower orders by accepting their
service or substance.
Mrs. Fullwood, her sister, a much quieter bird,
murmured of the trouble in crossing the Murrum-
bidgee, which kept them from the township and the
best of the seignorials.
“We need,” said Mrs. Fitzhugh, “two vehicles.
We could then come to the river, cross in the boat
and take up our travels again on this side.”
Mrs. Fullwood had but recently acquired her
only vehicle.
“ ’Tis a pity,” said Mrs. Delacy, “that my carriage
is out of order. I could lind it to ye without anny
inconvenience at all, as I have a gig now. Me son
is a great whip.”
“Oh, yes, your son ; that smart young gentleman
I observed this morning. He was educated in Sydney,
I hear.”
Johanna glowed. “And Norah, too—and also
her sister Della, in the mountains.”
“I understand that your husband has his main
seat in the mountains.”
“I’m think-
ing his main
seat up there is
a - horseback,”
responded
Johanna with
humor. “There
is not much
other in those
regions. ’Tis
not like the
Old Country.”
This con-
versation was
taking place at
dinner.
“That is
very hand-
some of ye,
Mrs. Delacy,”
inte r p o s e d
Hennessy, in
reference to
the carriage. He was carving a mighty roast.. Since
he had enlarged the hotel he sat at table and carved for
his select guests. There was a rag-tag table downstairs,
and people could also be exclusive by dining in a
sitting-room. Hennessy was real host, no vassal. He
turned with a flourish to the widow. “Sure, ’twould be
noice if a lady who has come to ornamint our
disthrict could move about at her aise. Would ye’r
carriage be nading much repairing, Mrs. Delacy?”
“More than I want to spind on it, me having no
use for such a caravan.”
“If ye’ll be so gracious as to lind it, Oi’ll kape
moi ind up by having it repaired in me own shop.”
Johanna was uneasy, thinking of Danny.
Hennessy beamed broadly. Mrs. Fitzhugh languished


and gushed. Whoever should be out of pocket by the
undertaking it would not be her: it was the privilege
of inferiors to pay. Robert, in debt to Hennessy,
hastened to be agreeable by offering to bring the
carriage in.
N / RS. FITZHUGH was amiable to those who
might be useful. Robert was up to Colonial
standards, and she liked personable men to curvet
around her crinoline. She later rallied Grace on her
cavalier.
Hennessy' played for
attention by talking of his
orphaned niece. “God
hilp me, Oi nade the
advoice of a lady such as
ye’rself, if ye’ll pardon the
presumption in bothering
ye. Ye would be a motthel
for anny young faymale
that had the distinguished
opporchunity of observing
ye.”
Hennessy’s
manner had
none of the
brusque in-
d e p endence
which made
the native-
b o r n so
odious. She
would be enchanted to influence the unfortunate
Molly, and jumped to the conclusion that “these
persons” would supply her with a free personal maid
as well as a carriage.
Molly was presented by Hennessy and astutely
perceived the lady’s condescension. The meeting
bristled into an encounter. Molly did not curtsey.
She did not smile. She stood as uncompromisingly
as a corner-post. Mrs. Fitzhugh assumed hauteur.
Molly made such a wide-eyed and unabashed inspec-
tion of the widow’s person, district by district, that
the proprietor grew conscious of defects. Mrs. Fitz-
hugh felt that Molly was too odiously a hussy for
anything but salutary reform. Molly meant to copy
Mrs. Fitzhugh’s tricks of adornment. She left the
widow to make all the advances. Euphemia lost her
way and covered her defeat by languishing.
“I declare I feel so overdone that my head
aches.”
“Maybe,” said Molly, “if you cut your stay-laces
you’d feel better. I’m always afraid of apoplexy
when old people are so stout.”
Mrs. Fitzhugh looked in danger of a seizure, and
felt too like one to retort.
“An odious hussy, the real malapert,” she
remarked to her sister later. What would have been
her state of mind could she have seen into Hennessy’s,
where she reposed as a possible aunt for that hussy?
He insisted upon Molly sitting at table with the
guests and would not permit her to do any menial
tasks. He measured his money-making powers with
those of his contemporaries and knew he had few
equals and that money was the most 'powerful key
to any society, even that of the angels with their
harps and pavements of gold.
Overhearing Molly’s blague with the young men
when their women were not by, Euphemia warned
her sister. “You had better watch that creature unless
you want her in the family.”
Mrs. Fullwood replied that both her sons of
suitable age were pursuing Della and Honoria Delacy.
“Dear me, is that desirable? Mrs. Delacy is a
well-meaning little person: she knows her place
better than the McCathie minx, but she is so Irish.
1 suppose Mr. Delacy married beneath him. Have
they money?”
“No, they are comparatively poor.”
“Then why do you acknowledge them?”
“Everyone thinks highly of Mr. Delacy’s charac-
ter.”
“I should not encourage them. Much more than
honesty is necessary to make a good match.”
Mrs. Fullwood sighed. Euphemia had a great
deal to learn in the Colonies. Mrs. Fullwood had
been reared in the same snobbery, but there had been
much of loneliness, hardship and childbearing to
counteract it. “I don’t think Robert Delacy thinks
so much of Grace as she does of him. She is two
years older than he is but won’t look at anyone else.”
“She must be cured of such foolishness. It
would be helpful to let Molly Mac have her way
with the Delacy boy.”
“If we could be sure that she would have it with
him and not with my Aubrey.”
“Hennessy should be spoken to. Surely he knows
his place!”
Euphemia had surprising things to learn of
Hennessy’s place. Mrs. Fullwood sighed again, un-
easily, remembering her account at Hennessy’s store.
Charles Fullwood, Esq., always had more classy—
upper-classy—work for the money made at Heulong
than" payment of Hennessy’s bills. Charles was like
his sister-in-law in feeling that it was the lower orders’
privilege to run big bills for their betters.
“CURE, there’s a foine thriving lady for ye—a
hoigh-shtepper if iver there was wan,” observed
Hennessy to his niece Molly McCathie.
“Fat old thing! Thinks she’s Lady Muck and
we are the dirt beneath her feet,” said Molly to her
Uncle Hennessy, the township publican.
“Ye from the convent, and have ye no genteeler
language than that for a lady who could bring ye
on?” '
“Bring me on!” snorted Molly. “She’d rather
put me down.”
“She’s maybe a little hard to hould,” conceded
Hennessy, “but, loike a blood mare, whin ye git used
to her stroide, a great goer.”
Molly tossed her head —like a blood filly. There
were others she did not much care for, either. Mrs.
Fullwood was a rag, but old mother Delacy had
started to give herself airs, and that was worse than
Mrs. Fitzhugh. Johanna had seen alarming passages
between Molly and Robert, and the other hotels were
no more than shanties for bullockies ; besides, she
quaked lest Danny might consider Molly a fine girl,
fit for any man.
When the carriage was repaired she suggested
that Mrs. Fullwood and her sister Grace should visit
Bewuck. Mrs. Fitzhugh consented to one night there
on her tour of the district’s would-be manorial
families. This would reward the Delacys for the
carriage.
Mrs. Fullwood very foolishly, Euphemia
thought asked Mrs. Delacy to accompany them
on the tour. She rather timorously accepted, express-
ing the fear that she might be crushing the others.
“Couldn’t Grace stay and keep me company till
you come back?” suggested Honoria.
Mrs. Fitzhugh instantly vetoed this.
Robert interposed. “Go with Mrs. Fullwood,
ma, as far as Glenties and I’ll bring you back in the
gig. If Grace will drive with me going it will leave
room in the carriage.”
“/ should adore a spin behind your tandem,”
promptly said Mrs. Fitzhugh.
“Even better,” said the adroit Robert. “I should
have to plead with Grace, but you offer kindly to
keep me company.”
HORSES and driver were supplied by the accom-
modating Hennessy. Mrs. Fitzhugh was relieved
to drop the Delacys at Butler’s and proceed from there
as though the carriage were her own. “The carriage
is totally above the poor little person,” she observed
to Grace. “She means well, but she is so dreadfully
Irish.”
Mrs. Fitzhugh had her own hunting to attend to.
The Major had been so gay a buck that she was
comparatively destitute. She needed a second hus-
band. She was now chary of the army and navy but
had heard tales of prizes among pastoralists. Well,
here was a carriage placed at her disposal without
apparent reason but the right attitude of inferiors
towards betters. An auspicious beginning.
Robert’s business increased. Fancy prices were
obtainable in Sydney and Melbourne for well-matched
pairs. Tom Angus picked the animals and sent them
to Robert to educate. Robert felt himself flowing in
money. When he had so much he was not carked
about paying Hennessy, and Hennessy let the debt
increase without remark. Robert became independent
of his mother’s turkey bank. Money that came so
easily seemed his own, without the recognition that
it was made at the expense of Bewuck.
When she had canvassed the elite for eligibles
Mrs. Fitzhugh did not bother to thank the owner of
the carriage. That was left to Mrs. Fullwood to do,
who was uneasy about Euphemia’s highhandedness.
Euphemia did not return the carriage. She left it
at Hennessy’s hotel, where it was speedily referred
to as Mrs. Fitz’s by the menials who had to look
after it. She had to travel from Heulong on horse-
back, and bluntly deplored the station being on the
wrong side of “that absurdly named river.”
Charles Fullwood was with James in the moun-
tains mustering the cattle near Wong Foo’s claim.
Euphemia was waiting to see James. She could not
consider him while he remained in the impenetrable
wilds, but in a new country everything was open
to a man of family if he had the sense to insist upon
his rights.
Chapter XV.
MOBERT’S father maintained his
hardihood at Burrabinga. Johanna
had called it a lost region in days
when none wanted it, and in the time-
of her great-grandchildren its caves and
gorges, streams and mountain crests were still to
remain but little known to any save wombats and
eagles or those who would ride the Federal Capital
Territory.
Motor-cars make it easy to-day for Youth to
attend a ball in the old township or to spend an
evening in Canberra or Queanbeyan or a week-end in
Albury or Goulburn or Wagga, but the cliffs held the
passes securely in those days.
The distances round about were estimated from
Burrabinga. Old Nullah-Mundoey made it a land-
mark, and it was called sixty miles from everywhere
because it was sixty miles from Gool Gool as well as
the township. It was thirty miles from the corroboree
grounds, twenty from Wong Foo, also twenty from
O’Neill, who had an outpost to the south. He was
jealous of intruders at his end, and Wong Foo was
an acute inspector at his. Delacy had won their
loyalty.
On their frontiers the Delacys had trap-yards
baited with salt and supported by drafting plants.
These were built like stockades with logs drawn into
place by bullocks, hard labor which entailed sweating
among swarms of flies from dawn until dark on a
diet of damper and salt junk and tea without milk.
ON a morning in January when 4 the century was
in its sixties and Danny in his fifties he was to
be seen at the top of his form at Dead Horse Plain.
Scrub bulls were deteriorating the wild mobs and
could be shot or emasculated for working bullocks.
Shooting at large made too much packing of hides ;
the cutting-out process was impossible in that country
and drafting in the yards was dangerous.
“We’ll take out the visitors first,” was the order.
Honest Delacy was punctilious about other
people’s stock, even in careless, fenceless days. He
would weary horseflesh to send home strays, and man-
flesh was squandered by all the Delacys, even by
Robert, as compared with other men. The strays
dealt with, Danny proceeded to test a theory. He
said that if he stood still he would be safe from a
charging bull, though not from a cow. His sons,
inured, were not so uneasy as the outsiders. In the big
yard were posts to duck behind, but a man who took
to the rails too often was howled out of composure
as a newchum or yellow.
“You can’t prove that without being gored to
smithereens,” protested William.
“Am I an eft not to learn from experience—with
the beasts a lifetime!” he demanded. “Sure, I’ll
take no chances with the ladies, but drive in that
Bullock Gap mob and I’ll pick out the stags without
anny confusion whatever.”
Doogoolook, stockmen, O’Neill, Anguses, William
and Harry were all helping. Tom Angus had his
revolver quietly ready. Danny took a position in
the big yard, plunking his hat on his head and plant-
ing his peg stoutly in the ground. His beard was now
long but without a grey hair. The pipe was in place.
“Let ’em in, me boys!” he roared.
William and Harry were at the drafting gates
armed with heavy roping poles. Others were at the
flood gate. In rushed the cattle. There was not a
move in Delacy. The beasts charged on and away,
leaving him so at ease that when one rushed back,
instead of to the split, Danny, full of enjoyment,
wheeled with a “Whist, me boy!” and met him again.
“By Jove! I
take off my hat
to you, Mr.
Delacy,” cried
Tom. “The most
fearless man I
ever saw, bar
none.”
Not to be
outdone, the
young men had
a turn, but con-
stantly took
advantage of the
safety posts. A
thunderstorm soaked the dust at noon. Later Danny
took the fairway on foot to open the gate. A cow
charged him and he tripped and fell. The cow
bounded over him and on to that freedom more
enticing than revenge. In her wake dashed the mob.
Danny lay still in the mud. The spectators were as
helpless to arrest the rush as if the bottom had opened
in a sack of onions. They leapt towards the mound
left in its track, Harry with a screech of horror,
William with an oath. Danny, hearing their exclama-
tions above him, sat up, a weird figure, clad in mud-
safe.
“Aren’t you hurt at all?” demanded William as
they helped him up.
“Hurt, by damn! Sure, I’m smothered and
murdered in mud with all the wild cattle in the king-
dom lepping over me! Be all the pipers, there’s
intelligence in brute creation —not wan so much as
flicked me in passing. ’Twould be incredible if you
heard it as a yarn. I’ll go clean meself at the creek.”
His pipe was in place, so that the onlookers were
taken with uncontrollable laughter —hysterical relief.
“Moi! Oh, moi!” he observed. “It takes little
to amuse those not too capacious in the top storey.”
ALL the men rode home to Burrabinga that night.
Now that the girls were there they returned as
often as possible for the bright company and the good
cooking.
There were vegetables in the garden started by
Wong Foo. Slips or pips brought during Johanna’s
day were in full bearing. Quince-suckers took root
if merely stuck in the rich dark loam. There was
adventure in seedling apples, and they grew in great
glory at Burrabinga. In autumn their branches bent
to the earth in a harvest as free from disease as the
first garden ere the sins and weeds of men intruded.
The salt of necessity and the sugar of hearty
admiration urged Della and Bella to lively house-
wifery. There were ever volunteers to help them with
storing the quinces, apples, pumpkins and pie-melons
which remained until fruit ripened again. If the girls’
supplies ran low Wong Foo, by some telepathy, would
arrive with vegetables or exotic luxuries.
He was awaiting the men on their return from
the drafting. A member of the family by right of
being swaddled in Danny’s rug, he was sitting in the
principal room on a prized chair carved by a stock-
man. Wong was wearing his grand suit. Like his
saddle and gear, it was still in perfect order.
“Such a pity those things are wasted on a Chow,”
said Bella.
Family business had brought Wong. He had
noted Burrabinga cattle disappearing from his end of
the run while the Delacys were elsewhere occupied.
Cattle could migrate, but when they’left a hide behind
them Wong marked it was always of the Delacy


mobs. He was too astute to blurt out his suspicions
until he had prospected.
“You sellum muchee clattle Missa James Flull-
wood?” he inquired. Danny said no. “You sellum
any lulla man?”
A list of sales was given. Wong proceeded.
“Whaffor hide off you clattle lie in sclub out by
me? Whaffor clows plickum eyes you lil blullock in
sclub all samee sclub longa gladen lulla side liver?”
Wong resorted to diagrams on the ground behind
the cowyard, safe from the ears of women and
“hands.” It appeared to be bigger than beef for a
few men. “Any strange men there lately?”
“No. All samee oP fliends, Missa James Flull-
wood.”
“Wong has got hold of a bull’s nest,” said William.
“We must ask old Jimmy if he has missed any stock.”
Wong was too cautious to mention names again,
or all that he had noted. He urged Delacy to muster
the Bullock Gap runs and to stay the night. “Bling
alung ladies. Makee big fleast. Ladies one hut, men
lulla.”
The girls seized upon this.
DISSATISFIED not to have himself understood,
Wong rode in again during the week with a pack-
horse and two hides. He spread them behind the
cowshed in triumph. The Delacy brand was clear on
hides of beef animals, which Wong had found in the
tea-tree near his claim.
“Me chasem honey bloke and see ol’ fella clows
and findem.”
The Delacy boys decided to investigate. They
were inviting the Urquharts to Wong’s party and to
an expedition to see some caves farther on. Danny
sent a note asking Urquhart to chaperon the girls.
James Fullwood rode in to Burrabinga the day
following Wong’s arrival with the hides. He paid
his respects to the girls impartially but Della was
indifferent and Bella effusive. As soon as possible
he took Delacy behind the shed that spot where
secrets were told.
“I know you keep that Chink prospector as a
pet, but do you let him do what he likes with your
cattle?”
“I let him have a beast when he needs it.”
“He wouldn’t need two in a week.”
“Och, he’s preparing a great feast for us all and
maybe has exaggerated notions.”
“But I’m speaking of two weeks past. I found
a hide pegged out above his claim. When I found
another it looked pretty rum. The tracks all round
were Wong’s. Yesterday I could find no traces of
the hides.”
Delacy led Fullwood to the hides. “Those are
off my spotted steers that ran at Bullock Gap—would
it be those you saw?”
“You found them yourself?”
“Wong brought them. He thought someone had
duffed them.”
“Had he any suspicions?”
“He did not name the thief.”
“I’d keep an eye on Wong if I were you. There’s
a lot more in that old Chink’s head than comes out.”
“That’s because we are too ignorant to under-
stand him. Moi! Oh, moi! I wish he could speak
better English so that I could enjoy conversation with
him.”
“What’s yours seems to be his, but if I catch him
meddling with my beasts I’ll make it hot for him.”
Chapter XVI,
WONG FOO had two prospectors’
huts set in cultivated plots. In
one he kept utensils and table
implements, which he used in
imitation of Bewuck, and in this he had
berths prepared for the girls. His feast included one
duck per person, cooked in Chinese fashion, with a
great array of vegetables, to be followed by Oriental
comfits.
The Delacys were proud of Wong Foo and justi-
fied their fosterage. Wong’s gallantry jacked-up that
of the others, and the girls had more attention than
they could absorb.
There were practical jokes and games until a
late hour —old games designed to aid amour while
preserving convention. James Fullwood most fre-
quently chose Bella Rafferty for partner. Della
contented herself with her young cavalier Ned, who
had remained deep in calf-love with her. She found
him useful as a buffer between her and men better
matched to her years. William Delacy fancied Janet
Urquhart, but was so gauche that she did not become
aware of it. Harry, eager, impressionable, and starved
for the humanities, monopolised her. Any young
woman untarnished by familiarity could be placed in
the role of a princess, and Janet, shapely of form and
pleasing of face, served well.
Urquhart approved of William Delacy; other
suitors were none so desirable. Keebah was
shut away from other families by the Murrumbidgee
during many months of the year, and his two eldest
daughters, Sarah and Agnes, had not married well.
Wong took the gentlemen to his own hut, where
Delacy and Urquhart revived memories of Bendigo
and Ballarat over a jug of Jamaica for another hour.
Wong reserved his own couch for them, and while
he attended on them the others rolled in their blankets
and went soundly to sleep. The boys awakened at
daylight to find Wong already stirring while the red
Scottish and black Irish beards intermingled as the
old mates slept it off.
| AMES FULLWOOD himself had been “three
sheets in the wind,” but the fall of Danny and
Sandy was the subject of his facetiousness with Bella.
She giggled flatteringly and contributed spirited
accounts of what happened when her father
(nominal) was drunk. She had a robust sense of
humor and no kill-joyism.
“I like to see a man a little on top of hisself,”
said she. “But mar is always joring.”
Della was contemptuous of Fullwood’s familiarity
with her servant and turned her smiles towards young
Urquhart.
The day was spent in visiting the caves, and the
second night at Fullwood’s station. There was no
such feast as at Wong’s, but the batching was improved
by rice and potatoes being boiled in the one billycan
with the salt junk. On the third day Urquhart Senr.
escorted the women back to Burrabinga homestead.
The young men would have liked to be in his saddle,
but Danny, with a whoop, had assembled dogs and
men and started after the mobs of the region, and the
Urquhart sons joined in to see if any of their own
cattle were in that direction.
They were all surprised by the few beasts sighted.
The opinion was that many had been stolen. Doogoo-
look confirmed this theory with evidence of a mixed
mob being driven towards the Great Southern-road.
He pointed to the tracks of two horses. One belonged
to the Anguses. His pupils, William and Harry, were
equally acute and verified the Angus tracks. Tom and
Ned recognised the tracks as those of a brood mare
which had disappeared a month earlier. The Delacys
and Anguses turned into troopers instanter and left
the mustering to James Fullwood and the young
Urquharts.
“I expected this,” remarked Fullwood to Delacy.
“There’s been a power of cattle lifted down
Monaro way, and it’s a curse for it to start here,” he
responded.
“I mean the horse-tracks. I did not want to
capsize your faith in Wong. You might owe him a
beast or two for all the feasts he provides, but I have
made inquiries about the Anguses. They are close
about their past. Never any brag about their family.”
“What the dayvil good is a man’s family?
Descent gave an unfair pull in the Old Country, but
out here a man has to be a man and make his ascent
himself.”
“You’d-think twice, though, before giving your
daughter to a man of no family?”
“Are you proposing for me daughter, James Full-
wood?”
“I’m no ladies’ man,” he parried, “and there are
too many younger blades in the running.”
“She takes her time. There is no telling where
her fancy will evintually settle.”
“Are you proposing to me for a son-in-law, Mr.
Delacy?”
This point fell in jocularity. Fullwood persisted
with the other. “Jokes aside, it was about the
Anguses’ reputation.”
“Have ye annything definite? If so, let’s put it
to them and they can defind themselves. A hint
without evidence is a snake in the grass, like that
boomer you dispatched to-day at the lickhole, and,
moi, oh, moi !” Danny took a meditative pull at the
pipe, “I’m thinking that the poor snake was moinding
his own business, and we intruding. If you begin
to contimplate the injustices of the universe they are
beyond disentangling.”
Fullwood headed Danny out of a philosophic
gully. “Most interesting, Mr. Delacy, and I’m one
to live and let live, but the tracks of that Angus horse
following a mob of your cattle off the run are rather
more interesting to me.”
“It looks as if the Anguses had lost their mare.”
Doogoo i ook returned a day i ater with the
„,. & \ u
Bedouin mare, leg-weary and galled. He deposed, by
'hat Be had found her among wild horses
between Birrabee and Keebah. He gave an imitation
of Fullwood leaning heavily to one side and spurring
like mad,
“He seems to think it is you,” said Harry to
Fullwood.
“One might as well interrogate an eft as a deaf-
and-dumb man,” interposed Danny.
Fullwood promised to report any further evidence
immediately. Danny remained a night behind the
others and enjoyed a talk with Wong.
BURRABINGA switched from cattle-branding to
horse-breaking, but the precipices far out saw
more prolonged feats than the fresh performances by
youngsters in the swamps of the curlews and plovers.
Cattle-stealing did not cease. Two weeks after
the picnic James Fullwood rode in to say that a mob
of his was missing and tracks pointed towards Dead
Horse Plain.
“Your cattle are safe with O’Neill,” said Danny.
“I shall spind a night with him this week ; the man
maybe is lonely.”
“He might find it profitable to shut his eyes.
I’d watch an old lag like that.”
“He let himself be employed once to do a dirty
trick, but I’d trust a lot of the old lags beyond those
that employed them.”
Fullwood ignored the imputation in this. He
thought Delacy a fool who would trust any scoundrel,
and went at once on the track of his cattle.
Before Delacy set out O’Neill appeared to report
the tracks of a mob not ten miles from his hut —-
mixed cattle driven in the direction of Gool Gool by
two horsemen —as plain as a Government notice.
Harry, William and Doogoolook set off immediately,
but their efforts were defeated by a thunderstorm.
To catch the cattle-lifters in the act now became the
great endeavor at Burrabinga.
Fullwood returned days later and said he was
sure that most of the cattle were his. He had tracked
them singlehanded from Bullock Gap to within ten
miles of O’Neill’s hut, and thence towards the Snowy,
but lost them through his horse getting staked and
because of the thunderstorm.
“This doesn’t look like stopping till we are
stripped,” he said to Danny. “It has been pulled off
too easily. I’ll inform the troopers, and I’ll make no
bones of my suspicions of both Wong and O’Neill,
not to mention others.”
“Then I’ll postpone my suspicions. Too manny
names maybe would moider the troopers.”
The trooper came with his tracker from Quean-
beyan, but he had to depend on the Delacys to lead
him about. Doogoolook was better than the police
tracker, which inspired Harry, who was rampant for
romantic adventure.
He and William took no one into their confidence,
not even their bosom friends the Anguses. They were
not so bosom to William as to Robert, because Tom
had a more taking style with the girls than William
had. William was shy and had a fear of making
himself ridiculous by putting on airs, and so went to
the opposite extreme. Thus while he looked longingly
on Janet Urquhart her eyes were cast on Tom Angus,
who could make her laugh. With William she could
find nothing to say, so avoided being alone with him.
William, therefore, could pick many faults in both the
Anguses and objected to young Ned hanging around
Della. He was alarmed that she was becoming an
old maid, and the boy’s presence held grown men at
a distance.


No cattle were removed during
the ensuing weeks. No unaccounted
person, either as fossicker or lyre-
bird-hunter, was to be seen. Wil-
liam and Harry unearthed families
of wild horses from remote places
and thought that the cattle-duffers
must have gone elsewhere, when
suddenly crows led them to a tea-
tree clump five miles from Wong’s
hut.
'"T RACKS ran to Wong’s claim
1 and also in the direction of
James Fullwood’s hut. The hide
could not be mistaken ; it was black
on the sides and white on the back
and belly. Hoofs and head were
not about but could have been
dragged away by dingoes.
The boys agreed to say nothing
of their find, but cut out the brand
and took it home with them. What
they were to prove by this they did
not quite know. They were begin-
ners. Later in the day James Full-
wood found the branded portion
of the hide gone and his detective
efforts being spoiled. He rode in
to ascertain what the Delacy boys
knew.
On the following morning
William and Harry found that their
evidence had disappeared. They
had not reckoned on the feats of a
kangaroo-dog when they stuck the
hide in the wall-plate of the
verandah.
Fullwood put another spoke in
their wheel through Bella. While
she was washing-up in the evening
he went to the kitchen on the
excuse of a feed for his dog. “Say,
Bella,” he began, tickling her and
attempting a kiss, “I want you to
help me in a little bit of work —a
woman’s wits, you know.”
“Go orn! You’ll make me
squeak so Deller will hear, and
she’ll be out. She’s as jealous as
a bear.”
“What of?”
“Ole maids is always jealous.
Lor’, I wouldn’t be an ole maid for
anything. I’d sooner take that gawky William.”
“He wouldn’t take you.”
“Oh, wouldn’t he, if I cocked half an eye at him! ”j
“I’d rather take you myself than let you be
wasted like that.”
“Go orn! You’re too old. Ole coves always
talk loving and mean nothink ... Wot was you going
to arsk me?”
“You’re a hard case,” said Fullwood with
admiration. “Next time they bring home bits of hide
I want you to save them for me. I suspect Wong
Foo and O’Neill, but these mugs want to keep
them as pets.”
“They might be just pretending. They could
have done it theirselves.”
“You have more head on you than the men,”
said Fullwood.
“What do I get for keeping the hide?”
“Don’t you love me a little?”
“How much do you love me?”
“As much as you let me.” He swept the juicy
Bella on to his knee. He was woman-hungry. Bella
lacked experience but she made up in daring.
HER vigilance was rewarded some weeks later
when the Delacys put two pieces of hide high in
the kitchen rafters. Bella had to place a stool on the
table to reach them. Though she could not read she
knew the Delacy brands. She cunningly evolved the
pieces of the puzzle and threw the hide into the fire.
Della came out to inquire the cause of the odious
smell. Bella was highly indignant at the stuff being
put in the rafters to fall on her head.
“It hurted me and it stank.”
Forthwith she washed her
head, and everyone had to keep
out of the kitchen until she dried
it before the fire. Only a hussy
would allow a man to see her with
her hair flowing. Bella published
her maidenly modesty because the
virtuous William had rebuked her
advances. For that she must be
revenged. Harry inquired through
the door about the hide.
“Er course I burned the
stinking stuff. It pilluted the
kitchen. Miss Deller was singing
out about the smell. Full wop on
me head! I might have been
stunned and have fell into the fire.
And having to wash me head at this
time er night: might ketch me
death er cold!”
Della could not put Bella in
her place. She had not Johanna’s
confidence. William and Harry
had to begin all over again. It was
not difficult, for the cattle-duffer,
like the dog in Proverbs, returned
to his waywardness and there was
high riding about the bush on the
part of the amateur troopers.
This time they would risk
neither kangaroo-dogs nor Bella’s
contiguous head, and felt so sure
of their quarry that they arranged
witnesses and whispered in the shed
at night or in their skillion bedroom
adjoining the girls’. Bella’s ears
were bush-trained ; she could hear
like a dog and listened with virtu-
osity. There was no wool over
her eyes. Instinctively she was
against authority and resented the
Delacy honesty and irreproachable
respectability. She was her
mother’s daughter, and old mother
Rafferty was notorious.
The young Delacys were all
for the police at the end, but Danny
said no.
“Wanst you begin law it never
ends,” he observed. “And law
helps the wrong man much more
than the right one. To boot, it
stirs up dangerous enemies.”
The Anguses did not subscribe to this. They
were not going to allow their cattle to be taken
without saying boo. Next their polo ponies would
go, and they might as well retreat from the district.
Two young men were to go for the police and
two were to remain on watch. This time the brands
were put in a billy on the dining-room shelf for
safety. No one could leave anything there without
Bella’s curiosity operating. She chuckled as she
extracted the bundle and hid it high in the ridgepole
in the dark of the stable, where one smell more
would not be betraying.
AT piccaninny dawn next morning the billy with
the lid off was found rolling on the floor, the
dining-room door open and the hide gone. There was
recrimination upon whoever had been careless. Della
had gone out first and confessed to leaving the door
unlatched. The combined tracking ability of the
place could find no remnant of the parcel nor any
slot of dog in the house precincts. The young men
retreated to the shed for confabulation.
“You’d think it was a plot against the Roosians,”
said Danny, breaking in on them. The confabulators
stated their suspicions of a plot. There could not
have been three accidents to the pieces of hide.
“It looks pretty black against that Bella. She’s
been getting very bold lately,” said William.
“If she’s in it she would be acting catspaw for
one of the min,” said Danny.
“And he’s acting catspaw for the duffer.”
“Whoever that is,” said Danny.
“There is no doubt who that is,” said Tom
Angus, supported by William and Harry.
“We must pay attintion to commonsinse,” said
Danny. “You want to be double-sure before you
can be half-sure enough to lay a charge.”
The many dogs, visiting and resident, bayed a
loud announcement, and James Fullwood approached
out of the timber on the Keebah track. The disturbed
plovers ran stiltedly away and rose with protesting
tut-tut-tut-tuts from the tea-tree swamps. The men
dispersed to their horses, the conference ended and
dissembled.
Fullwood was a mass of curiosity, but so offended
that he had been ignored in the affair of trapping
the duffers that he would not betray any interest.
At this juncture Bella came to the back gate,
ostensibly to give some meat to the dogs, and made
signs to Fullv/ood.
“Oh, what a nice horse,” she exclaimed. “I’d
like to try him.”
She set her dish down and went towards him.
Fullwood stepped towards the animal which was
hitched to the grindstone.
“Be careful —he is savage.”
BELLA was patting the harmless horse's neck and
muttering to Fullwood “I got them all safe, right
from under their noses, when they was all off to the
police to play old Harry.”
“Got what?”
“You know —the pieces of hide you wanted.”
“They’re the softest louts I know. A cat could
hocus them with dingo-pups for kittens. The
Anguses must be splitting their sides with laughter,
but all the same very relieved that you have saved
them.”
“Go orn!” said Bella shrewdly, narrowing her
eyes and enlarging her suspicions.
In suspicions she rarely went astray, except with
the Delacys, who antagonised her. She suspected their
honesty as hypocrisy, while the hypocrisy of those
practised in dissimulation of misdoing had her ready
applause.
“Get me the brands as soon as you can.”
“I’d have to be terrible careful that they were all
away on the run.”
Fullwood rejoined the men. The meal was now
ready, to which no invitation was necessary.
“Better turn your horse out and stay the night,”
said Danny.
After the meal Tom Angus departed for Birrabee.
To explain the town suit, William said he was going
with him to bring the mail from Keebah. It was six
weeks since Burrabinga had had any ; also, William
was famished for a sight of Janet. Harry and Ned rode
aimlessly out towards Bullock Gap with their spoiled
plan. Danny gave the stockmen a start for Dead
Horse Plain with a mob of horses that had come
down from the highlands too early. Fullwood
lingered, talking to Della and awaiting a chance with
Bella, which came when she went to pen the calves
for the night. They dawdled in the cow-bail, she
sitting on the block while he leant on the rails.
“Now is your chance to get me those brands.”
Women were scarce, and Bella was a tantalising
morsel to an ageing man. She drove her terms and
was fertile in stratagems.
WHEN preparing the evening meal she announced
that Fullwood had been down to Heulong and
had a letter from her mother.
“It was like his cheek to forget it and not give'
it to me the minute he come,” she said as she handed
it to Della to read.
“If Mr. Fullwood has been down without giving
us a chance to send a letter I do think he’s mean.
Bella’s family was illiterate. Someone had acted
as scribe. Bella was informed that her mother was
poorly, as an addition to the family was due in about
a month. Bella must come home at once to take
care of the smaller children.
“I’m going,” said Bella, affecting to be perturbed.
“Poor ole mar is forty-five ; it might finish her this
time.”
Danny returned shortly afterwards and spoke
to Fullwood, who explained that the letter had been
brought by a stray prospector. He also had received
a letter, which made it imperative to go to Heulong.
He could take Bella with him.
Delacy said he would take Bella. He had
promised her mother to guard her as his own
daughter. Bella demanded a pack-horse for her
belongings. “Arrah, you’ll be back before you know
it.”
Bella blubbered “Poor ma might die this time.”
One swag-bellied old mare was given to Bella’s
packs and another to her person, Danny said Della
could have a holiday at Keebah while he was taking
Bella down. He, Fullwood and the two girls set out.
The first night they scrambled up to Birrabee and
surprised the Anguses. The following day they
reached Keebah. Delacy felt it his duty to go on
with Bella, but Fullwood asserted that the girl would
be equally safe with him. They would make on to
the next settler —tw6nty-five miles distant —and early
the following day reach Bella’s parents on the left
bank of the river.
Delacy was seduced by the rum and the talk at
Keebah to let them go.
The old mates had a spree, not quite so free as
that nurtured by the sympathetic Wong Foo. Mrs.
Janet’s glare acted as a slight brake. Intoxication
brought no poison to the surface in Danny. He
merely babbled philosophical speculation, recited
ballads and enjoyed a spate of hyperbole, but alcohol
in its lees had an inflammatory effect on Sandy.
Chapter XVIf.
desolation of a camp that is
| * empty all day enfolded Burrabinga
homestead with the loss of the two
young women. Winter had come.
The mountain-tops were white with snow,
the gullies slippery with unmelted frost. The icicles
rose nightly like stubble on ungrassed spaces and
crunched underfoot. Callers ceased. The Delacy men
were not driven by table-greed or other spurs to
comfort. Their meals fell back to primitive consis-
tency. They shut up the house, awaiting the girls’
return, and pigged in the kitchen.
O’Neill sometimes lingered half a week when he
beat his way down for rations. In the glow of the
big log fires scores of muzzles were whittled from
the light but tough woolly-butts and thrown aside to
dry for the next weaning. Harry knew by heart the
few books left by his final tutor: Danny had read
every line, including the advertisements, in newspapers
of London and Sydney, months old when packed up
from Keebah. Ned Callahan, a stockman, had a
greasy songbook, dearly prized, from which Harry
read him the songs and to which Ned put tunes he
had heard. He had an ear and played hop-jigs and
song-tunes on the mouth-organ and jewsharp. He
was also a Grinling Gibbons with a penknife.
The Delacys had no accomplishments. They had
been reared only to bushcraft. William had no other


interest, but Harry was famishing for intellectual
contacts. A few great novels would have released
him into another world.
Danny wearied of the winter routine and longed
for Bewuck and Johanna, so announced his intention
of going to see how things were.
“Sure, you are big
and ugly enough to run
the place till spring. You
can make a trip to Kee-
bah for recreation and to
see Della, but don’t ride
the tails off all the horses.”
Keebah would see
them as soon as his back
was turned, for there lay
their magnets.
“I’ll send papers and
goods as opportunity
occurs. None of this
police business, no matter
what is lifted, even if the
house is lifted off you by
the roots, till you consult
me. I’m in a firmer posi-
tion with the knowledge
of the duffer in me hand
than if it is exploded. Is
that clear beyond misun-
derstanding?”
He chose three mares, one for riding and two to
carry fine skins for Johanna. Doogoolook prepared
himself. He always followed or preceded his master
like a kangaroo-dog, and had become a habit with
Delacy.
The whisky-flask at Keebah was low; what
remained was firmly held by Mrs. Janet for emer-
gencies, so Delacy was saved from delay and surprised
his family one wintry dusk when the sun had set
without a fleck of clouds. The sky was a frosty arch
of electric pallor deepened on the eastern rim by rose
tinged with blue, and lightened along the western
ranges by the gleam of nacreous turquoise. He
descended with whip-crack and halloa, his dogs loping
ahead to make trouble with the Bewuck pack and
dispersing the jackasses sitting on low snags awaiting
a belated grub.
“ L_J ERE’S your father!” exclaimed Johanna, and
' 1 ran in her old eager way to meet him.
“Me brave Johanna, are you all well?” Danny
dismounted and removed his pipe.
“That can’t mean much to ye,” said Johanna
with spirit. “It’s a widow I’ve been off and on for
years.”
“That’s more so with me than you, I’m think-
ing,” he said with a self-conscious grin.
“It’s lucky I am to have a fine son.”
Robert, Maeve and Norah came forward and
dispersed uneasiness. Danny observed how striking
a man Robert had grown.
Danny changed his clothes and brushed his hair
and felt a mere guest at his own table, with Robert
presiding.
Talk loosened during the evening, though Robert
was not a talker. He rarely explained. He went
across to Hannon’s on pretext of business, leaving his
father with the women. Johanna liked to gossip or
read the new paper that had started in the township.
“Make ye’r father a bed in the ind room ; he
will be tired from riding all day,” she said to Norah.
Danny was chilled and disappointed. Time had
emancipa-ted Johanna from the urge for a husband,
but Danny was not yet released from sex.
Johanna had much to tell, so she began: “I don’t
know that I should bother to tell ye. I’ve been
deserted in the eyes of the country for half me life.”
“You could have paid me a visit; and you never
sent me a letter.”
“That cuts the other way round, I’m thinking.”
“Sure, what had I to report but tigrinising about
the scrub with horses and cattle. It was you that had
all the news: and sure, didn’t we sind a letter by
Bella when she came down ; and did James Fullwood
sind on the two old mares?”
“What’s this about Bella coming down? And in
that case what have ye done with me daughter—left
her to be the prey of dingoes and stray min in ye’r
ould Bunratty Castle?”
“Have you heard if old mother Rafferty has had
another child?”
“Sure, what is that but a regular occurrence this
twinty-five years or more? It’s nearly as common as
old Rafferty going on the spree, and more regular ;
surely it’s come to an ind at last and ye’r concern is
rather late.”
“But James Fullwood brought Bella down more
than a month ago to be with her mother for the
purpose designated.”
“The river has been high,
and ’twould not occur to
such tag-rag to inform their
betters about what they
should know.”
“I’ll find out to-morrow.”
“And where is Della?”
“With Mrs. Urquhart till Bella comes back.”
“Are ye marrying her on wan of the Urquharts?”
“’Twill take more than me to marry Della to
annyone. She has a distant way with her to all
men.”
Johanna heard this with satisfaction, and divulged
that the second Butler boy, Stewart, wanted to marry
Norah, and that she and Mrs. Butler were both satis-
fied. It only remained for the fathers to come to
terms.
1 N the morning Danny
1 saw that Robert’s
management still fur-
thered elegancies at
the expense of funda-
mentals. He was con-
fronted by the showy
gig. “Whoi, what ” He looked towards the
carriage-house. The door was open upon vacancy.
“Where’s your mother’s conveyance?”
“She lent it to Mrs. Fitzhugh.”
“And why should Mrs. Fitzhugh be provided with
a carriage by your mother?”
“She’s Mrs. Fullwood’s sister.”
“Och, I remimber now. Sure, ’tis your mother’s
business what she does with her own carriage, but I
must find the rights of it. Is this vehicle Mrs. Fitz-
hugh’s?”
“No. I got it for a mere song to take ma out
a little. Her health was suffering from the years of
confinement.”
Danny muttered “Oh, moi! Oh, moi!” to him-
self and saddled a mare for inspection farther afield.
He was astonished by the number of milch cows and
the flocks of turkeys.
“Do you do the milking?”
“I haven’t time. Maeve and Hannon and his
old woman do that. I reckon it pays better to see
that others don’t loaf than to do everything by one-
man power.”
Danny was further surprised by so many
Bedouins. “Did the Anguses come out and me not
to be told?”
“No. These came when you
sent the draft together.”
“And why are they devouring
winter grass here?”
“Huh! They pay better than
cows. Norah has kept books.
Training harness horses is not
nearly so racking as buckjumping.”
“Moi! Oh, moi!” repeated
Danny. He was overwhelmed, but
not convinced that the business was
sound. He spent the day outside.
A virile man did not remain
indoors unless there were women
guests or it was Sunday or there
was a deluge or he had a broken
leg. He had to confess, though
with private reservations, that Robert “had a head
on him.”
That evening Stewart Butler came to see Danny,
whose tracks through Glenties had been reported.
After supper Norah and he were permitted the sedate
-occupancy of the “parlor”—Johanna’s prized elegancy
—while the parents had the dining-room fire. Robert
went over to Hannon’s hut to talk horses. He could
not talk to his father. Maeve, now looking old and
worn, had Doogoolook in the kitchen, where she
showed him pictures in a London periodical. Con-
vention did not permit Norah and her affianced to be
hermetically sealed in their own society. Norah
emerged at intervals on some maidenly pretext, or
Danny or Johanna intruded to make specific inquiry
or to mend the fire.
One of these irruptions was to ask Butler if he
had heard of James Fullwood being home a month
before to bring Bella Rafferty.
Mrs. Butler employed one of the girls younger
than Bella, but Stewart had not heard of Bella nor
of Fullwood being down. Charles Fullwood had been
away, some said dealing in cattle and taking them to
Victoria. So prized was news that the whole region
would speedily know that Delacy was down from the
mountains, and it was puzzling that James Fullwood’s
visit and Bella’s homecoming had escaped attention.
“Sure, the river is hoigh, and it puts people in
prison,” remarked Johanna.
Danny felt that it was time to be mending the
fire in the parlor. On returning he asked Johanna
where was her ,carriage and why Mrs. Fitzhugh should
be wearing it out.
Johanna advanced her hopes for Robert and
Grace Fullwood.
“Surely you’d never help things on with that
sawny beanpole?”
“My Robert has looks enough for two.”
“And too manny for himself, I’m thinking,”
grunted Danny, depositing his dottle in the fire and
beginning on a fresh plug.
“It is the family. Beauties don’t-always make
the best wives.”
“It’s family I’m against.”
“Now what could anny sane man have against
the Fullwoods? They visit at Cobbramorragong as
well as at Camerons of The Plains, and they never
come here.”
“That’s because we are not rich enough. Whin it
comes to breed, me family is better than anny of them
for education and principle.”
“Och, if I didn’t keep ye up a little ye’d soon
slip back to the emancipists.”
“There’s manny an ex-ticket-of-leave I’d rather
be allied with than the Fullwoods, though they might
be of the nobility and visit on royalty.”
“Ye’d maybe prefer Hennessy of the public
house?”
“Hennessy, when all is said, never hired a felon
to beat me up and oust me cattle from their run.
Hennessy is as foine a man as can be met in the
Colony, full of enterprise, and a rale man, not like
these whining, down-looking Fullwoods, who can only
honk and hah through their noses. They never look
you in the face.”
“I despise bold, glaring men like Walter Moore.
I had to fight to preserve meself from him.”
“Well, now, Johanna, ’tis no use of getting at
cross-purposes over a bottle of smoke. What is behind
these veiled observations about Hennessy as a substi-
tute for Fullwood in the matrimonial sense?”
“I saw passages between Robert and Molly
McCathie that showed he had better see something
higher. Boys are romantic at that age, and ’tis time
he was settled. Ye were an old married man with
a family at his age.”
“Of the two evils I prefer Molly, and of the two
prospective fathers-in-law Hennessy is the best man.”
“A lag.”
Danny had no faith in Johanna’s judgment. She
would think that all the country wanted her precious
son. Danny was more interested,
for the moment, in ascertaining if
Bella had been landed at home
sound in limb and virtue. She was
his particular responsibility. “To-
morrow I go to the township to
straighten me business. Will you
go with me, Johanna?”
“’Tis too cold across those plains these short
days. I’m better in me own bed.”
Danny invited Robert to ride with him, but
Robert said he could not spare the time just then.
“How often do you go in?”
“I can’t remember when I was in last—a couple
or three months ago.”
Danny was pleased that Robert did not waste his
time around town. Doogoolook prepared himself to
accompany his master, but was sent instead to dis-
cover if Bella were safe. This had to depend on
signs, as the Rafferties were illiterate. Doogoolook
was to go around by the Heulong boat —a two-day
journey each way unless he pressed his horse.
(To be continued next week.)
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


FOR SHORT STORIES
IwfeuUeUa
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(100 4 0 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition;
January 31, 1937 .
Conditions will be repeated
in next week’s BULLETIN.
PICNIC RACE SADDLES
asdf
No. 24
2|lb.
BARE
No. 24—PICNIC RACE SADDLE is a
most attractive saddle for the amateur
rider. It has long seat, Tod Sloan
flaps, and weighs 2flb. bare. The
price, without mounts, is £6/10/-.
No. I 73—Light Exercise Saddle is
another suitable saddle for picnic
races. It is Tod Sloan style and
weighs about bare. Its price is
£4/12/6, without mounts.
Elastic Girth and Surcingle: In web,
21/-; leather, 25/6 per set.
N.P. Exercise Stirrups, 4/3 per pair.
Freight extra on all goods.
Write for 100-page Saddlery
Catalogue.
WALTHERk STEVENSON ltd
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Service to its customers, and the public generally,
has been the paramount consideration of the Bank
for over a century.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
ASSETS EXCEED £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING AND EXCHANGE
BUSINESS EXPEDITIOUSLY TRANSACTED.
C. Dqrvall, General Manager.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
“You Never Know How Them Billiard
Players’ll Perform”
THE SQUIB
BY CONDREW
IT was durin’ one of them lulls that
everyone gets into at times that I
got me first introduction to the pro-
fessional billiards game. I’d disbanded
my team of boxers and was waitin’ for
Fortune to deal me somethin’ better
than deuces when one day I bumped
into Schnapper Henley in a King-street
pub. Schnapper wasn’t lookin’ his best
and I knew I’d be lucky if it didn’t cost
me somethin’. For a start I ordered a
couple of mugs.
“What do you think?” says Schnapper
after he had lowered his lotion. “I’m
managing the cornin’ winner of the
National Billiard Tournament.” The
National Billiard .Tournament was a
pretty big event in Sydney those days,
and I pricked me ears.
“Good luck to you,” says I. “Winners
these days are as far apart as the cur-
rants in a home-made cake.”
“Yes, my bloke will win all right,”
says Schnapper. “He’s on twenty-five in
a game of two-fifty up. He ought to be
fifty behind by rights.”
“He might be that far behind at the
wrong end of the game,” I says. “You
never know how them billiard players’ll
perform.”
“He’ll be well in front at the finish,”
says Schnapper. “Come upstairs and
look him over. He’s doin’ a bit of
practice.”
“I ain’t interested in billiards,” I says.
“You will be when you see this bird
in action,” says Schnapper. “You might
as well have a look at him.”
I hesitated for a second, and Schnapper
grabbed me by the arm. “Come on,”
says he. “You ain’t got nothin’ par-
ticular to do, have you?”
“No,” says I, like a goat, and up we
went.
A LITTLE pale-faced chap is knockin’
the balls about at one of the tables.
“This is him,” says Schnapper. “Hey,
Joe, I want you to meet a friend of
mine, Mr. Silver.”
Joe puts the butt of his cue on the
ground and shakes hands. “Glad to
meet you, Mr. Silver,” says he. “I’m
just havin’ a bit of practice.”
“So I see,” says I. “Don’t let me
interrupt you.”
“Show Mr. Silver a shot or two, Joe,”
says Schnapper. “He’s very interested
in billiards.”
I wasn’t, but after Joe had trundled
the balls around for a bit I began to
take notice. The way he slammed
them into the pockets and brought off
difficult cannons was an eye-opener.
“Well,” says Schnapper after Joe had
finished his performance, “what do you
think of him?”
“He’s good, all
right,” I come
back.
“A n d there’s
twenty to one
goin’ beggin’ about
his chance of win-
nin’ the tourna-
m e n t,” says
Schnapper. “That’s
the hard part
about it.”
“There’s nothin’
hard about that,”
says I.
“Not when
you’ve got a fiver
buried on you,”
says Schnapper,
“but I ain’t got
nothin’.”
“Oh,” says I,
tumblin’ to how
the dice was rollin’. “You’ve got the
man but you ain’t got the money.”
“You’ve guessed it,” he come back.
“That’s why I brought you up. You’d
better be in it!”
I didn’t want to be in it, but after
considerable talk it was arranged that
I was to slap a fiver on Joe at 100 to 5
and lay Schnapper and his mate a pony
to nothin’. The prize for the tourna-
ment was twenty-five quid, so if Joe won
they would get fifty quid out of it.
That night I parted with a fiver to a
bookie and everything was set.
The heats weren’t due to come on for
a fortnight, and Joe put in most of the
time in between practising. He seemed
to improve every day. His long suit
was hoppin’ in off the red into the
middle pockets, but he wasn’t no slouch
at top-of-the-table play. We
got a good man to work with
him, but he wasn’t a match
for Joe, and by the time the
heats come on he was at the
top of his form.
"TALKIN' of billiards;
1 maybe he didn’t do no-
thin’ to his opponents in the
heats. He sailed home in the
first two heats as if he had a
gale of wind behind him, and
he was thirty points ahead of
his man at the end of the third.
The fourth heat wasn’t quite
so gay. He won it all right,
but there was somethin’ about
his play that didn’t make me
feel too good. I noticed that
when the other bloke pushed
him along he seemed to get a
touch of the shakes. I men-
tioned this to Schnapper, but
he only laughed.
“Don’t you worry about
Joe,” says he. “He’ll win the
final as easy as he won his
heats.”
“I hope you’re right,” I says.
“Of course I’m right,” says
Schnapper. “It’ll be a shame
to take the money.”
The final was set down for
Saturday night, and on the
afternoon of the day of the
match when me and Schnapper
was samplin’ a couple of whiskies at the
pub where Joe was stayin’ he trots down-
stairs. He seemed a bit nervy, I thought.
“Hello,” says Schnapper. “I thought
you yvas lyin’ down.”
“I was,” says Joe, “but them house-
maids are makin’ such a noise upstairs
I couldn’t rest. I’m a bit off color too.”
“Off color?” says Schnapper, lookin’ at
him hard. “What’s wrong?”
“Oh, just a cold, I expect,” says Joe.
He fiddled round for a bit and then
says: “I hope I get spot ball to-night.”
Schnapper looked at him. “Why do
you want spot ball?” he asked.
“Because I play better with spot,”
says Joe. Considerin’ that he had won
three of his heats with the plain ball it
sounded a bit funny to me.
“You could beat the bloke you’re
goin’ to play with any ball,” says
Schnapper J *
“I don’t know,” says Joe. “They tell
me he’s a real good player.”
Schnapper leans over and pats him on
the back. “All right,” he laughs. “You
go back and have a lie down and don't
think nothin’ about the match until to-
night. You’ll win all right.”
“I wish I felt as certain as you do
about it,” says I when Joe has gone.
“Why wouldn’t he be certain to win?”
says Schnapper, surprised.
“Because he’s got a touch of nerves
already,” says I.
“Bah’” says Schnapper. “You’re mad.”
“All right,” says I. “We’ll see later on.”
WE didn’t see nothin’ of Joe until after
tea that night, when we went with
him down to the hall. The crowd had
rolled up strong, and there was a sprink-
ling of bookmakers there. Our bloke was
6 to 4 on in the bettin and his opponent
Murray was 5 to 4 against. On peiform-
ances Joe shou d have been 3 to 1 on.
He was a better player than Murray,
who was givin’ him twenty start.
Joe had brought two cues with him,
and he fussed about for ten minutes or
so before he decided which one to use.
When all was ready r they tossed for balls,
Joe won the spot and the game com-
menced.
Nothin’ sensational happened in the
first half-century. Joe slapped up a
couple of twenty breaks in fair style.
Murray was more of a plodder, but I
noticed that his breaks were averaging
up pretty well. He looked to be a bloke
who wouldn’t crack up when the whip
was put on him.
Joe passed the hundred mark still twenty
point's ahead, and the crowd gave him a
good hand. He seemed to have settled
properly into his stride, and was playin’
like a tradesman. He’d hop in off the
cherry a few times, then work the balls
to the top of the table and play the pot-
and-cannon game. He was well worth
watching.
“Well?” says Schnapper, giving me a
nudge. “I don’t see no signs of them
nerves you were talkin’ about.”
“He ain’t had the acid put on him yet,”
says I. “Anyway I hope I was wrong
about it.”
“You were wrong all right,” laughed
Schnapper.
The crowd was all for Joe, as they
always are for the favorite, and Murray
didn’t seem to have a friend. Still he
kept plugging along. He was forty points
behind when Joe reached his second hun-
dred. That meant that he had to make
ninety while Joe was makin’ fifty. It
seemed an almost impossible handicap
for a player of Murray’s standard, and
the bookies were laying 3 to 1 against
him winning.
Still, Murray was game, and he stuck
to his job. Joe made nothin’ at his next
visit to the table and Murray put to-
gether a dogged fifteen. That brought
him to within twenty-five of Joe, and I
seen Joe give a hurried squint at the
scoring-board before he played his next
shot. He only made eleven that innings,
and Murray replied with a twenty.
“Hello,” says I to meself, “the game
is gettin’ interestin’.”
Murray had left the balls in a fairly easy
scorin’ position, but Joe walked up and
down the table for a while be-
fore he decided which shot to
play. You could see he was
feelin’ a bit serious. He
slapped up sixteen and then
broke down on one of his
favorite losing hazards.
Murray knocked up twenty-
three on his next visit to the
table and was only nine
behind.
Instantly the betting changed.
Bookies who had been blow-
ing Murray out to 3 to 1
shortened the odds to 6 to 4.
lOE looked troubled. He
had only to make twenty-
three to win, but they take
some gettin’ when you want
them badly. He went to the
table lookin’ pretty shaky. The
best he could do was a mighty
poor eight. Murray put him-
self in front with his next shot,
and that was the end of Joe.
He had a big chance left to
him when Murray failed to
score on reachin’ two-forty-
seven, but he couldn’t take
advantage of it. Murray ran
out with an in off the red, and
the tournament was over.
Which only goes to show you
that a game man has always
got a chance no matter how
bad the dice are rollin’.
With the money I won on Murray I
took a team of boxers to Lithgow, and
we did fairly good business. After leav-
in’ Lithgow we What’s that? Oh,
easy. When Murray was 3 to 1 I slapped
a score on him.
Did I give Schnapper any of the fifty-
five?
Did I what ?


OBTAIN MONEY
£
Si
tr Hi
rff^ r tTTO (
llw
((fftfiftffmS-
eM
m
k
mm
■WI.
CrMAs, kkiaJl o# ■6A£- utcytZcC.
A simple and safe way to finance a trip, whether
within Australia or abroad, is to carry a Bank of
New South Wales Letter of Credit.
When travelling, it is not necessary to run the
risk of carrying on the person large sums in
cash.
The Bank has over 770 branches in Australia,
New Zealand, the Pacific Islands and London, and
there is an agent of the Bank wherever, throughout
the world, banking facilities are available.
The Bank also issues Travellers' Cheques in
amounts of £2, £5 and £lO. These can be cashed
throughout the world-
\sLnlcJ%u.
V ESTABLISHED Itl7
LETTERS OF CREDIT
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGH
ANY BRANCH OF THE BANK
224A.I936
w»,
H
ii
ill
IJ
I
Wm&.
m
jm
•W»X
mm
r
;<Y\
,*>■
11
•.../■
af
vr
l|>
A
£
(and all Travel Agents.
If OVUM.
NEW ZEALAND
You'll find real stimulation for mind and body in a holi-
day trip to NEW ZEALAND.
Here is a sportsman's paradise golf on a splendid
course 3,700 ft. above sea-level, deep-sea fishing, streams
and lakes abounding in trout, shooting, and hiking on
world-famous trails. . . . Here is contrast in scenic splen-
dours to please all tastes—mighty fiords with towering
bluffs and alps falling sheer to the water's edge; per-
petually snow-capped mountains, unique underground
caverns, placid lakes ringed with forest-clad hills
tumbling cascades, and fascinating thermal wonders
iJidlclcuftlm
ONLY 5 DAYS BY FAST
LUXURIOUS LINER
//
. . . And to make your trip really
enjoyable—free from irksome de-
tail of tickets, luggage, etc.
let the New Zealand Government
arrange your tour. It will save
you time and money, and give
you expert advice and assistance
from the time you leave till your
return home.
For further particulars:
GOVERNMENT
14 MARTIN PLACE
SYDNEY
(Directly opp. G.P.0.)
Tel. B 7043
Write. Call or Phono:
TOURJSJ BUREAU
COLLINS HOUSE
360 COLLINS ST.. MELB.
Tel. Cent. 3110
KING HOUSE, QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE
What Love Will Do:—
TRUMPS
BY P.A. DARBYSHIRE
Little Mr.
Gloam stepped
off the train at
Talmoor and peered
about him in the
fading light. It had
been raining heavily
—there was still a
faint drizzle —and
an icy wind was
blowing across from
the west. He sighed heavily, gave his
ticket to the station-master, picked up a
battered suitcase and made towards the
town. Pools of water lay on the road,
and he skirted them as delicately and
disdainfully as an alley cat.
Nearing the main street he stopped,
thought for a moment and then left the
comparative dryness of the road for the
undoubted muck of the sidewalk.
Keeping close to the fence as if he
were afraid of being seen, he slipped
into the town’s only caffi and seated
himself with obvious relief. He squinted
across the street at the Royal Arms and
sighed at the thought of what he must do.
“Tea,” he said briskly in answer to
the waitress’s question, and then gulped
it down hot as if he felt the need of a
stimulus.
“I believe there’s a new cook at the
boarding-house,” he said politely as he
paid the bill.
“Too right,” answered the waitress.
“May 1 ask her name?”
She scratched her head vigorously.
“It’s—humph, what is it now?” She
scratched even harder. “Oh, yes. It’s a
Mrs. Crump.”
“Crump,” he said. “Thank you.
Thank you very much.”
MR. GLOAM trudged across the road
to the Royal Arms, where the fat
barman greeted him jovially. “What’ll
you have, brother?” he cried, polishing
a glass briskly.
The little man looked at him timidly.
“What have you got?” he asked, spar-
ring for time.
The fat barman bellowed his amuse-
ment and became immediately facetious.
“Well, we’ve been known to serve beer
here,” he announced. “Also brandy, gin
and schnapps. Give it a name.”
“How much for a small beer?”
“Sixpence, sport.”
“Then give me a pot,” said little Mr.
Gloam, showing he was well aware that
a pot would cost no more than a small
beer. He produced a small jug purse
and took sixpence from it, looked at it
sadly before he put it on the counter
and shoved it in the direction of the
barman.
“Thanks, Joe,” bellowed the barman,
snapping up the coin and slapping down
a foaming pot.
Mr. Gloam looked doubtfully at the
beer, then picked up the pot gingerly,
sipped and pulled a face.
“What’s the matter with the beer?”
demanded the barman with a scowl.
“Nothing. It’s very nice—very nice
indeed, although just a little cold.”
“Well, I can’t help that, can I?”
“No, no ; of course you can’t.” The
little man hastily pulled out his purse
again. “I’ll have four more —no, five.
I’ll pay you now.” He thrust a florin
and a sixpenny piece over the counter.
The barman grinned. “Going on a
beano?” he asked.
Mr. Gloam coughed and smiled wryly.
“In a way,” he admitted.
It was closing time before he finished
his last pot, and he stood silently at the
counter as if he were waiting for some-
thing.
“Have another?” demanded the bar-
man.
“On the house?” asked the little man
anxiously.
The barman stared at him, and then
guffawed. “You’re a sad thing, Joe,” he
said ; then drew another pot and shoved
it over the counter.
Mr. Gloam drank it slowly, bade the
barman good evening, and then walked
steadily to the door.
“Well, I must say your grog don’t
seem to affect you much,” commented
the barman.
Mr. Gloam smiled wanly. “It never
does,” he said sadly.
FA ARKNESS had fallen, and Mr.
' Gloam found it difficult to avoid the
puddles, though he found some con-
solation in the fact that some mud on
his pants would add color to what he
was about to do.
He stopped outside a shop which ad-
joined the police station and began sud-
denly to sing in a surprisingly loud voice
for so small a man. It was all about
home and mother and ivy growing on
cottage walls—the kind of song a drunk
seems always to sing. After the second
verse he looked anxiously at the police
station, and began another song, this
time in an even louder voice.
When the second
song was well under
way a constable
poked his head out
of the office door.
“Shut u p,” h e
snapped.
“Shut up your-
self,” bawled Mr.
Gloam.
“Eh, what’s that?”
The constable emerged.
“Shut up yourself,” repeated Mr.
Gloam, and essayed a feeble hiccup.
“Say, listen,” said the constable
nastily, “if you don’t stop that damned
row you’ll go in.”
“You’re telling me?” demanded Mr.
Gloam belligerently.
“I’ve told you,” snarled the man in
blue, and marched inside.
Mr. Gloam began to sing again, and
then looked about him for a stone.
He found a half-brick, and after eye-
ing the big plate-glass window with a
shudder went around the side of the
shop in search of a window which would
be inexpensive to break and yet make
sufficient noise. He shut his eyes, gave
a groan and then skied the brick through
the window.
The crash brought the policeman out
like a jack-in-the-box. “I told you,”
he snorted, breathing heavily with
righteous indignation, “and now you’re
going to get it.”
He put his face close to his prisoner’s
and sniffed.
“Full of beer,” he said with satisfac-
tion. “Just as I thought. Get along in-
side, and I’ll see you get the whole issue.
Drunk and disorderly, insulting language
and breaking private property. You’ll
fetch a few bob in the morning, believe
me.” >'■
In the office he produced a well-worn
charge book.
“Name?” he demanded.
“Crump,” said Mr. Gloam.
“Crump,” said the constable thought-
fully. “I’ve heard that name somewhere
recently.”
“My wife is the new cook at the
boarding-house,” explained Mr. Gloam.
“That’s it . . . Well, perhaps she'll
bail you out.”
“She would,” said Mr. Gloam confi-
dently.
“We’ll see about that later on. Let’s
get on with the business. Address and
occupation?”
The constable relaxed a little after the
formalities had been completed. “Now
what about that bail?” he asked. “Would
you like me to ring your wife?”
Mr. Gloam coughed nervously. “Just
ask her to come down to the police
station,” he suggested. “She’ll probably
guess what it is all about.”
THAT done, they sat beside the big
log fire enjoying its warmth and
became almost friendly. Suddenly a
woman’s voice—the shrill, sharp voice
of an exasperated woman —interrupted
them.
“At it again!” she cried. “Well, you
won’t get any good out of it this time.”
“At what?” demanded the constable,
staring at her.
“You’ve got the meanest wretch in
the State beside you,” she declared
angrily. “I’ve been married to him these
twenty years and 1 ought to know.”
“Now look here,” said Mr. Gloam
weakly.
“I’ll tell you the whole story, con-
stable,” she said, ignoring her husband.
“I keep a hundred fowls on the farm,
not to mention ducks and turkeys, but
who gets all the money? He does. I
milk half a dozen cows and sell the milk
and cream and a vealer now and again,
but who gets the cash? He does. When
do I ever get a new dress or a hat or a
little recreation? Never! But who gets
the wheat cheque? He does!”
She warmed to her subject.
“For twenty years I lived with him
and put up with it, but a year ago I
reckoned I’d had enough, so I left him,
and what does he do but go after me
and beg me to go back.” She put her
hands on her hips. “But would 1?”
“Well, would you?” asked the con-
stable uneasily.
“Of course I wouldn’t.” She tossed
her head. “But what does he do then?
He comes to the town I’m working in,
pretends to get drunk and then gives
the name I’d taken as his. That makes
things a bit unpleasant for me, and I lose
my job so I’ve got to go back home,
just as he calculates. Well, I cleared
out again a bit later, and he does the
same thing again—didn’t you, you
miserly little brute?”
The little man licked his lips, but
did not answer.
“You can’t deny it,” she said tri-
umphantly, “and now let me tell you
that you’ve pulled that off for the last
time. I told my boss what was likely
to happen after I d been here a while,


THREE GOOD TEMPERS
sadf
asdfas
dśf
asdf
TWO for the blade
and ONE for you
HARDER STEEL HERE
THAN EVER BEFORE
—TAKES A MUCH
KEENER EDGE.
asdf
asasdf
Shaving with the
new Blue Gillette
blade is a positive
luxury minus
extravagance. For the
electrical "double - tempering”
that gives a keener edge also gives
many more shaves per blade. *lf you haven't
tried them yet, get a packet of Blue Gillettes
to-day. They make shaving a real pleasure.
PACKET OF FIVE, 2 7 -
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
and she’s quite satisfied to keep me on,
so that’s that. I won’t go bail for you,
I won’t pay your fine, and if you go in
for a couple of weeks it’ll give me all
the pleasure in the world.”
She strode to the door, and the two
men stared after her.
She turned again. “You’re out so far
as I’m concerned. Understand?”
“Quite,” said Mr. Gloam. “Any mes-
sages for the children?”
“Tell ’em I’ll write, as usual,” she
said, and then added, watching him
closely: “How are they?”
“All well,” he replied.
“Then that’s all right,” she said.
He cleared his throat. “Daisy’s not so
good,” he remarked.
She looked at him sharply. “What’s
wrong with her?”
“A touch of colic. The vet. said”
“The vet.! She must be mighty bad
if you got the vet. in.”
“Oh, she’s well enough now,” he said
hastily. “At least”
“Well enough! You’d be too cursed
mean to dose her properly,” she declared.
“I reared her from a calf, constable, and
she was about the only thing on the
place I could call my own. She took the
blue ribbon at the Bungup Show three
times running, and I reckon she’ll take
it this year, unless he lets her peg out.”
She stopped, and then came to a deci-
sion.
“Well, I’ll go back and get her right,”
she said ; “but if you think I’m going
to stop you’re sadly mistaken. Sadly mis-
taken, do you hear?”
“Yes, Lily,” he said humbly
She snorted, then went out, banging
the door behind her.
<«CT HE certainly ticked you off,” re-
marked the constable.
“She always does,” said Mr. Gloam
gloomily.
“You led trumps when you mentioned
that cow.”
“She thinks a lot of Daisy,” Mr.
Gloam assured him.
The policeman looked at him curi-
ously. “What trump are you going to
lead next time?” he asked. “This stunt
of getting on the tear seems to be no
good any more.”
“I’ll have to think of something else, ’
said Gloam. “Still, I guess there’ll always
be something.”
“Don’t you think,” asked the constable,
“that you go to a good deal of trouble
and expense to get back a woman who
seems to be fed up with you?”
“I do,” said the little man candidly,
“but it’s worth it. She’s a wonderful
cook.”
“The Law is an Ass”:—
T HE SAINT AND
THE DEVIL
BY E. JOHN
A POLICE magistrate’s life is not
a happy one. In all my years
of experience I have had to deal
mainly with the sordid and corrupt. But
one case gleams happily through the mass
of drunks, dangerous drivers and deserted
wives—the case of the Door-knocker.
Certainly it was forthright enough in
court, yet it tickled my curiosity. Besides,
I had a personal interest in it, and I’m
afraid my decision was not as disinter-
ested as it seemed to be.
It is hard to imagine anyone risking his
liberty for the sake of exchanging a door-
knocker, but there it was.
I was relieving in the country at the
time, and in my judicial position of
splendid isolation I couldn’t very well
make further inquiries, so I was delighted
when one day at my hotel 1 ran into
Collins, the young solicitor who appeared
before me in that case, and he mentioned
it of his own accord.
“Do you remember that door-knocker
case a month or so ago?” he asked. “One
thing about it has always puzzled me.”
“I’m afraid I don’t,” I replied
cautiously. “The cases come one after
another, the same ingredients”
“Well, when the case was over”
“I know quite well what happened
then,” I said. “What I want to know is
how it all began. Tell me the whole
thing from your point of view.”
“ I HAD an important business appoint-
-1 ment,” he said, .“which would
occupy me from 11 a.m. till noon. I
go cut to coffee to fill in my mornings,
so I pinned up a note that I would return
in ten minutes, and left the office at
10.59, pausing for a moment to contem-
plate the deep thought behind a motto
which hangs on my wall, a motto on
which I model my life, ‘Any good thing
I can do, let me do it now, for I shall
not pass this way again.’ Sydney Carton’s
last words I suppose they are.
“Well, when I reached the front door
of the building, there was a short, thin
man actually removing the door-knocker!
He looked as meek and inoffensive as a
Chinese launderer, too. I had never
noticed the knocker before, or, for that
matter, the door. It was always open.
But I have always had an academic
interest in work, so I stood and watched
him.
“He had scraped off the green coating
which the years had accumulated on the
knocker, revealing that it was bronze and
displaying its curious old allegorical de-
sign—the horned head of a devil rap-
ping on the haloed brow of a saint.
“That was the first time I saw it. It
disappeared, but turned up again. Then
it vanished a second time under extra-
ordinary circumstances, and that time it
went completely. There’s a mystery here
and I’d like to solve it; for the devil
rapped on my own saintly forehead, and
1 coveted that knocker.
“ ‘And what', my good man, might you
be doing?’ I asked the little chap.
“ ‘Taking the knocker off.’
“‘I can’ see that, but it doesn’t ex-
plain why you can play ducks and drakes
with our door-knocker like this.’
“ ‘Oh, it’s your door-knocker!’
“ ‘Our door-knocker I said, and when
I say our door-knocker I mean
that 1 have an interest in the preserva-
tion of our door-knocker —a tenant right.
I pay rent; I lease part of the premises
having access to the street along that
passage and through this door.’
“ ‘But I’m only changing the knockers.
I’m putting a new one on for you.’ He
showed me a brand-new affair in some
gleaming metal, designed purely as a
commercial and utilitarian door-knocker.
“‘I have no doubt that my tenancy
comprises the right to knock on this par-
ticular knocker, not on any old new
knocker you like to bring along. You
can’t play fast' and loose with our knocker
like this. As far as I’m concerned you
are quite welcome to change every door-
knocker in town. But for your own pro-
tection, I would point out that this
strictly amounts to theft. Students of law
agree that exchange is robbery.’
“ ‘But I have made a deal with Mr.
O’Flannagan, the butcher next door, to
supply a new knocker.’
“ ‘And what be-
comes of the old
knocker?’
“‘I keep that
for my trouble.’
“'“THIS was a
1 poser, but I
was not deflected
from my course.
‘l’m not at all sure
that Mr. O’Flanna-
gan has the right
to deal with you.
He may have the
shop on the front-
age adjoining this
passageway ; he may even be the owner
of the offices behind it. But Mr. McTav-
ish, the newsagent on the other side of
the passageway, collects the rent of the
offices along his side of the passage. Pos-
sibly Mr. O’Flannagan’s consent is suffi-
cient ; but the hinges of the door are
plainly on Mr. McTavish’s side. For my
own part you are more than welcome to
the door-knocker ; but just to be on the
safe side,’ I concluded benevolently, 'I
would get the leave and license of Mr.
McTavish, too.’
“I felt that this would, settle him ; Mr.
McTavish was never known to give up
a right, real or imaginary. A mean,
dog-in-the-manger type, McTavish is.
“ 'Perhaps 1 should,’ he said obedi-
ently, and went into McTavish’s.
1 dropped in for a chat with Mr.
O’Flannagan.
“ ‘I thought I’d just let you know that
some fellow out there is taking the door-
knocker off,’ I said warningly.
“ ‘Nobody ever uses it,” said Mr.
O’Flannagan. ‘I told him he could ex-
change it if he wanted to.’
“ ‘The point is this —the removal of
the knocker discloses that some time the
door was green. The knocker which this
fellow proposes to foist on us does not
coincide exactly with the old knocker;
there will be fully five-eighths of an inch
of green in the centre of a yellow door.
Most unbecoming! Just have a look,’
I said, leading the way to the street.
“The door-knocker-remover and Mr.
McTavish were examining the door.
“ ‘Well,’ Mr. McTavish was saying
cautiously, ‘I must say it’s an improve-
ment ; you can take the old one.’
u ( A ND what the hell do you mean,’
/ \ thundered Mr. O’Flannagan, ‘by
giving away my property?’
“ ‘Your property, sir?’ said Mr. Mc-
Tavish. ‘And since when has this door-
knocker been your property?’
“ ‘You know right enough that the
door-knocker and the door and the pas-
sage all belong to me.’
“ ‘Are you crazy?’ countered Mr. Mc-
Tavish. ‘They’re used by you and your
tenants purely as a matter of grace on
my part.’
“ ‘Go on! These premises are mine
right to your boundary wall.’
“ ‘That is so,’ said Mr. McTavish, ‘if
by my boundary wall you mean the wall
on your side of the passage.'
“ ‘My boundary wall is the wall on
your side of the passage ; not to mention
that I have also prescriptive rights of
support over your wall as a party wall
by virtue of twenty years’ undisturbed
use.’ Mr. O’Flannagan paused for
breath. ‘My lawyer told me so. Must
1 show you’
“ ‘Gentlemen! Gentlemen! ’ I said
gently. ‘I may be a newcomer to your
fine city, but, as you know, as indeed
my plate shows, I am a solicitor. Now
if you’ll step up to my office for a
moment’
“ ‘Can I take the door-knocker now?’
asked the little man.
“ ‘l’m afraid not,’ I said. 'The door-
knocker is now sub judice. If necessary
an injunction restraining you’
“ ‘You get out of it,’ said Mr. O’Flan-
nagan.
“ ‘We’ll get the police to you,’ said Mr.
McTavish. The door-knocker man went
dejectedly away.
<<nTHE illuminated motto in my office
1 positively beamed at me. Well
done, thou good and faithful servant
Sydney Carton seemed to be saying ; t
had done my good deed for the day.
was happy in anticipation of the cost*
for drawing, engrossing and registering
two indentures, to be signed, sealed and
delivered, setting out the rights of the
parties thereto of the first and second
parts to and in all that piece or parce
of land comprising the passageway an
party walls described in the schedule
thereto, together with mutual covenant*
for and easements of support, light and
air, and egress, ingress and regress to, ovei


A welcome break /"
.i8i5...|...i : [HljiiliSi'Tlj-iililisi 1 iiiMiilil *
K
utw-CoUuwfr&p-r/ A
ImmWm
in
: W&F
;w’-1
naMi
MM?
-fli
3~
' ■
4mi|jW
;^>^r
tj
mp
ICC
m
I••• j c •• :-.i\:“r K+kji*.;
m- -)
i r **f
■U,:
m
fff ppm
3
' -" }
tv.i-.-.rfSffl&ri
mm
tj
m
K-T'-v
SjMf
*8*!!
O
ttw^jjjr-
SfeKfe
j§i|p
vfjrr^i'-
Si
'/■
H
O:
360
////a
»
5?
Distributors for the House of McCalium ■
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. *
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
UNION
LINE
sdf
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ... 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney . . .
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from £5.
Full
particular $
from —
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney,. Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
bookings
recommended'
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
and upon the above-recited piece or
p arce l
“And the said parties were happy in
the amicable settlement of their differ-
ences
“But when I walked downstairs again
a patch of green on the door caught my
eye. I examined the door closely. It
had no knocker at all, not even a new
one. I immediately reported the matter
to the police—as a decent citizen and an
officer of the law to boot, I could do
no less—and thanks to my detailed de-
scription the criminal was soon appre-
bended with the stolen goods on his
person.
“The case was fully reported in the
‘lndependent,’ and much kudos accrued
to me. I’ve got the cutting here.
“ ‘Michael Patrick O’Flannagan, ques-
tioned by the prosecutor, Inspector Hagon,
identified the door-knocker as his pro-
perty. Evidence to the same effect was
given by Alexander McTavish, who also
claimed the article as his (McTavish’s)
property. Mr. Collins (for the accused), in
an able defence, raised the technical objcc-
tion that a chattel cannot be stolen unless
it is stolen from someone; it must first be
proved to have an owner. The prosecu-
tion, in an excess of zeal, had shown that
the Chattel had not merely one owner, but
two. Therefore it was pnma facie the
property of each but not both of the said
witnesses, and the law presumed that what
belonged to each belonged to neither. It
STJS
that the chattel was ferae naturae or
flotsam and jetsam, and discharged the
accused.’ ”
“The little man said he was very grate-
ful for all I’d done for him and was
happy to have met me.”
44 V ou damned hypocrite,” I said to
I Collins pleasantly. “But what about
those deeds you prepared? Didn’t they
show whether it was McTavish or
O’Flannagan who owned the doorway?
“Unfortunately, they were not ready to
be executed until the day after the trial,
“I see. But why on earth did the man
do it? It didn’t come out in court.”
“His wife collected door-knockers ; he
told me it was her only passion. She had
absolutely set her heart on that door-
knocker, and goaded him to desperation,
But what I’ve never been able to find out
is what became of the knocker. It
featured at the hearing as Exhibit A, and
I intended to souvenir it for myself. I
looked under the Bar-table; I asked the
police and the deposition clerk; I
searched the witnesses, and 1 threatened
the little man, but it had vanished into
thin air. What on earth could have be-
f it? „ k d Collins despairingly,
„ 1
No one can rob a gaol,
“Except the gaoler,” I said. “It is
usua l f or exhibits to be handed up to
c tr „ nn( .i„
1C on , e ® e^ c *i. Strangely en Ug ,
rny wife collects door-knockers, though
I wouldn’t say it’s her only passion.”
“ T h e devil!” exclaimed Collins. “Then
.. , . , ~ , Tl
i thank you to return that one. Theft
does not cease to be theft because it is
committed by an exalted personage.”
“Th/t! But in court you yourself
proved conclusively well, proved to my
complete satisfaction, anyhow—that this
door-knocker was fair game, I can quote
maxims, too: ‘ln pari delicto potior est
conditio possidentis. Possession is nine
points of the law.’ ”
wid food and sleep beside. An’, listen,
little man, I have a brother could do wid
a worker out there at the farm.”
“Strike me pink, sargint', yer a bloomin’
miracle worker. I’ll give it a go. I’ll
work all right. Only fer that pork”—-
‘ ‘ I ISTEN to me. Listen to me,” said
•—* O’Meara, quelling the protestations
with a traffic-signal hand. “Ye were like
to be in trouble, bad trouble, a while
back. Imagine, now, yerself in the dock
and the Judge takin’ a peep at ye over
his glasses in a pityin’ kind of way. An’
the Crown Prosecutor —a cold, hard-
looking felly belike —is spaking across at
the jury.
“ ‘Ye will learn,’ he says, ‘how the
accused sneaked up on a sleepin’ man —
a poor, hard-workin’, dacent farmer’ (may
Heaven forgive him the lie) —‘and belted
him to death wid a blunt instrument.’ ”
The audience shuddered and felt his
throat apprehensively. “Gawd, sargint,
you don’t arf give a bloke the creeps.”
“Well, now, ’tis the truth I’m tellin’
ye. ’Tis a grand country ye’re in and
lashin’s of opportunities fer a felly wid
guts. Maybe ye’ll find some hard spells,
but protestin’ wid waddies will get ye
nowhere but the place I was after de-
scribin’ to ye.”
“Not me, sargint. You ain’t ’arf cured
me,” protested Joe Smith fervently.
“Well, now, get ye down to the hotel
or them wolves of railway min will have
ate the place out. ’Tis food and rest
ye’re needin’ this minit.”
HE silenced the mumbled gratitude
and set the immigrant on his way
with a gentle push of his huge paw. As
the little figure receded he took a last
glance around his kingdom and went in
to his tea.
Some time later he was disturbed by
knocking at the door. It was the yard-
man from the hotel. “The boss wants
yer to come around, Mr. O’Meara. A
little Pommy bloke just dropped dead in
the pub.”
At the hotel the waitress explained hys-
terically, “ ’E jus’ give a choking kind
o’ noise and fell orf the chair.”
“Eatin’ his dinner, was he?” queried
O’Meara.
“No. ’E come in late an’ I says ‘There
ain’t much left, mister. Beef’s orf, but
there’s a nice bit of pickled pork,’ an’ ’e
just groans like and topples over.”
Tragedy of an Unvaried Diet:-
PORK
BY VINCLAYTON
IT seemed to Joe
Smith that he was
trudging through
an immense oven.
Each step raised a
puff of fine dust
which sank listlessly
behind him in the
breezeless heat. On
each side of the
track a post-and-
rail fence ran ahead to a quivering hori-
zon ; inside the fences brown earth, off
which the summer sun had baked every
vestige of green, stretched endlessly, its
monotony broken only by occasional
gum-tree skeletons blackened by the
bushfires in some previous swoop from
the hills behind.
Presently, as the ground dipped, a clus-
ter of iron roofs showed where Taralbun
straddled its creek—now a dry, brown
scar on the earth —and the plodding
traveller hitched his bundle and took
fresh impetus at the sight.
Senior-Constable Denis O’Meara from
the shade of his verandah on the main
road watched the weedy figure with awk-
wardly-tied bundle, long experience
fathering the thought, “Another immi-
grant back to the city.”
“Where could I find the p’lice sargint,
mister?” said the dusty traveller in pure
Londonese.
“Ye’re speakin’ wid him this minute.”
T" HE little Cockney hesitated, studying
* the bulk of O’Meara with awe, then
gulped and plunged at' his story. “I jest
killed the bloke I was workin’ fer, sar-
gint, out in them ’ills.”
“Did ye now?” said the unruffled
O’Meara. “Come on round to me office.
“Well, now, what is it?” he continued
when both were seated in the lockup.
“It was the pork, sargint. I come up
’ere three weeks ago from the Immigra-
tion to Mister McCorlie. ’E drove me
out, never ses a word till we gets there,
then ’e shows me a bunk in a corner.
‘Brekfus’ at six,’ ’e ses. An’ me as empty
as a drum. Ev’ry day we goes splittin’
wood out er them burnt trees, an’ at
nights we cooks a few spuds an’ ’e cuts a
slice or two orf this ’ere lump er pork
on the table an’ covers it again wiv a
sack. When one bit was finished ’e goes
ter the tub and fishes up another bit all
black an’ dirty-lookin’ an’ boils it in a
tin. Strike me lucky, sargint, me stum-
mick fair turned dawg on me. So it’s
bread an’ syrup fer me, three meals a
day. ’E never ses a word, an’ the bloke
down at the Immigration told us ter stick
it if it came a bit rough at first, so I gets
on wiv it.
“Then me ’ands got that bad I couldn’t
ardly ’old the axe, so this mornin’ ’e ses
'We’ll try a change er work fer them
ands er yours,’ and out ’e brings a couple
er them big cutters an’ takes me up in
the bushes. Blimey, sargint, it was cruel.”
He held out a pair of hands blackened
and blistered into open sores on the
palms, scored and scratched on the backs.
“At crib-time ’e brings out the bottle
er tea an’ sanwidges. I was fair starving,
an’ bites right inter one er them. Lumme,
sargint, it was pork.
“Then I tries ter
pick some bits er
bread orf the meat,
but the bloomin’
pork was right
through it, so I ’as a
swig at me tea an’
goes back ter me
slashin’. After er bit
I takes er spell, an’
not ’earin’ no noise
I goes back. Strike
me pink, there ’e is
sound asleep an’ all
the tucker ate.
“Wot wiv me ’ands and bein’ ’ungry,
it fair made me wild, so I picks up a big
branch an’ dots ’im one over the ’ead.
Gawd ’elp me, sargint, ’e jest rolled over,
stone dead; never made a sound. So I
rolls me duds an’ come in ter give meself
up.” •
“Well, well,” said Denis O’Meara.
“Here, have a cigarette whilst I bring ye
a dish of tay.”
| T was a very bewildered Cockney who
1 sat in the lockup when, statement-
taking finished, the “sargint” left him to
go and make arrangements for bringing
in the corpse.
Outside the Commercial Hotel, the
policeman found Andy McCorlie tying
up a horse hitched to a dilapidated buggy,
his head wrapped in a strip of dirty towel.
“Good-day, Denny,” McCorlie saluted.
“Good-day to you, Mister McCorlie,”
replied O’Meara, whose heart had never
warmed to the thrifty Scot. “Did the
mare boult wid ye?”
“No. I fell asleep after me lunch
sittin’ agin a tree, and a branch must’ve
fell on me.”
If Senior-Constable O’Meara’s eyes
twinkled the other missed it. “I was
speakin’ wid yer immigrant man awhile,”
he said.
“Yes, the loafer cleared out on me,”
put in McCorlie rather hastily.
“Well, well, now,” continued O’Meara.
“He asked me would I moind collectin’
his cheque should I see you an’ he’ll call
around to me one day for it.”
“I have no cheque with me,” evaded
McCorlie.
“Well, well, now. Maybe the hotel
could oblige ye.”
T OE SMITH had been outlining men-
tally a last touching letter to his
relatives overseas and recalling details
of murder trials as related in the papers
of his home city. So O’Meara’s cheerful-
ness on his return was bewildering. An
invitation to sit out on the front veran-
dah reduced him to puzzled silence.
Having set his stage O’Meara prepared
to enjoy the climax. Presently down the
road came the muffled flop-flop of hoofs
and the rattle of wheels, and the little
Londoner gazed absently, to jump up in
startled fear as McCorlie drove past, until
a firm hand pressed him with “Whist
there, little man.”
O’Meara explained the situation and
produced with a chuckle the cheque for
three weeks’ wages.
“Now, me man,” he continued, with a
resumption of his official air, “a felly
that works on wid hands like them an’ his
belly empty is like to be of use wan day
So get ye down to the hotel and fill ye


1 l | w if w
built
Bmi8 mi
»Sp
0
A popular type of body is the capacious
van favoured by laundrymen and others
handling loads approximating one ton in
everyday delivery work. But Model C-15
provides a grand base for a wide
variety of bodies. Come in and make a
detailed inspection, or let us send you a
free illustrated catalogue.
International Model C-15
• With a low-hung 136-inch wheelbase chassis, this new six-cylinder one-tonner,
Model C-15, finds a place in the International line—and fills it with distinction.
. . . A stronger frame for knock-about work at all speeds . . . The six-cylinder engine
of proved International quality, instantly responsive on the steepest grades . . . Long,
flexible rear springs that cushion the load like an air mattress . . . Powerful hydraulic
brakes .. . Roller-bearing universal joints . . . Full-floating rear axle. A great chassis
for low-cost quick-time delivery service in the popul
one-ton field.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS:
Rated Capacity: I ton. Wheelbase: 136 inches. Engine:
6-cylinder, 3i\ r in. bore, 4£ in. stroke. Maximum Brake H.P. 78.5
at 3,400 r.p.m. Transmission: 3 speed synchro-mesh. Brakes: 4-
wheel hydraulic. Final drive: Full-floating, spiral-bevel gear type.
Tyres: 7.50-16 balloon.
CHASSIS PRICE
(plus tax)
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
sdf
A
ALT
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.H.L.: “Had he not read that the voice
was an immediate instrument of the amorous
tendencies?” It’s not at all unlikely... .C.R.:
Not up... .G.C.8.: “The Spartan” is a weak-
.. 1 c ta v, niarp
Img... .E.D.: Not for us, but you should place
them elsewhere... .1.M.. Indiges i ....
E.A.H.: Might do for a flapper magazine
R. : N0....H.F.: Don’t like that one; try
again W.L.: Still misses... .E.P.D.: Yours
too J.N.: Too morbid, and the plot is
weak EM G : Melodrama R.L.W.:
Took one; other not up....R.W.: No inclina-
tion to help ourselves....L.L.: “Horses”
might have found a stable had the handling
been different... .5.A.8.: You’ve been heavy-
handed a 150... J. 8.: No grazing for “The
Black Bull” V.C.: Not here... .L.O’C.:
We think a holiday might be better....
A.E.K.: Don’t like either....E.F.: You should
find a home for that elsewhere... .W.G.-H.;
Shorty left us unmoved... .A.S.: We’re rather
tired of that sort of thing... .AX.: Nothing
for Johanson... .P.W.P.: Brooker very nearly
got in. Try again.... M.-F.: Not badly done,
but cattle-king masquerading as stockman is an
ed friend who has outstayed his welcome
H.E.: Humor assays too light in travel sketch.
.Agar: On the slender side... .Scribe: Stout
sentiments, but we’ve no niche for them
C.H.W.: Nothing in it R.N.8.: More suit-
able for a daily... .W.E.: Not enough punch
in that rambling humor R.8.Q.: Yarn sti
has the same weakness. -H.S. •Notenough
in film-career sketch S.H.: Dull and me-
1e55....A.C.F.: Even an anaconda couldn’t
swailow that yarn F. 8.: “Falling Snow”
foreshadowed its descent to the w.p.b
L.N.: Far too disjointed... .Don: Hard to say
from so short a sketch, but you are ?°ung: an
there is always hope .. -H-M- • Boorish beach-
ness b shiifing § in°hisMsyes ‘he^entlyG roked her
S. No ’more I th2f. S “ I; The sub-
ject matter isn’t strong enough... .E.W.: Ah!
the poisonous snake in the wife-snatcher’s bed;
welcome to an old friend! J.A.: A long
way after Nat Gould Friday’s Mate: Black-
tracker yarn fell flat R.J.T.: Has the cos-
mopolitan canefields atmosphere, but that type
of story should make the reader laugh out
loud; yours doesn’t S.W.L.: Too theatrical,
C.L.: Nothing in it, and Tonkin and Briggs
seem to be mixed inextricably H.P.; Satire
just missed J.E.: “The Pest” duly strangled,
D.B.; Sketch had possibilities, but too
thin R.R.: Not a ghost of a smile in that
. .R.G.W.: Enough to make Adam Lindsay
Gordon turn in his grave L.K.N.A.: Pass-
able enough if only the theme were less hack-
neyed 8.D.: “Please say how far off publi-
cation standard.’ Mi1e5....0. Gee; “Ballad
of the Lady Who Slimmed” doesn’t remotely
tesemble a ballad.... L.J.H.: Seven halting
essa y s in rhyme without a flicker of promise.
_ _ , H .0.P.: “Curly Bob,” with his bald head,
his broken nose, his cauliflower ear, his quench-
less thirst and his unpleasant aroma, was turned
back at the gate J.C.S.: Poor stuff, quite
apart from its “Dead Bird” flavor C.P.:
The swagman with the “Miller of Dee” outlook
doesn’t impress us as real J.G.M.: Cheap.
••• - ER Thinner than via ordinaire....
TE.S.! Back it goes... .C.C.: Womans
Tears might wring a sob from any editor....
AT.WSheer moonshine... J. 8.: Sounds
bke the stuff ‘Book Arcade Cole, of Mel-
bourne, used to concoct under the delusion
that he was writing verse. N.DY.: A deal
too recondite. C.R.U.: You have enough
wit and humor to carry you into print when
your verse gets a bit more polish... .0.M..
Wen-rhymed, but this floral stuff is off our
beat M.B. : Pleasantly romantic, but no
“"kef for it here... .R. 8.: Still you must
admit that skirts have come down consider-
a*sl"-
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.D.C.: Infantile scribblings.... J.K.; We
h on > t nee( j the assurance that it is a first
empt . _ MX . F .: Yo u belong to the large
® . ..
army of painful scratchers... .A.E.; An anti-
quated hash-house gag and a mediocre draw-
ing....D.H.: Without form... .8.E.C.: Noth-
j ng worse this week... .H.J.8.: Heavy-handed
art anc j tame gags J.S.: You have a long
way tQ gQ B B . Take more pains with
your drawings, and think out smarter gags....
R.M.HOur great-grandfathers chuckled over
that wheeze... .P.M.S.: The boy on the bike
is more simian than human A.V.: Students
work, nothing more S.D.: Such microscopic
sketches give art-editors eyestrain P.G.: All
landed in the w.p.b M.A.: Dead trees and
campers look much alike E.R.; Faint signs
of improvement—carry on C.L.: We are
ready to consider gags apart from drawings
and to pay 7s. 6d. for approved ones R.F.;
No space here for your poster-size sketch of
the Queen Mary running down a fishing boat
K.N.: Tramp at the door was shown the door.
A.C.: Get a bolder sweep into your line-
work and aim at crisper gags A.W.P.: Is
the lady wearing boxing gloves or are they
supposed to be her hands?
A MIXED GRILL.
“P.”: One way of reducing the num-
ber of pedestrian fatalities on the high-
ways would be to forbid all motor-horns,
sirens, etc. In Finland no motor sounds
a horn, no steamer whistles, no factory
hoots and no bicycle rings its bell. The
number of road accidents has been
greatly reduced since this programme of
noise abatement came into force.
* * * *
I was glad to see that Assur-
ance Supplement (B. 12/8/’36). I in-
sured each of my two boys when
they were about four years old,
taking out in each case a full-life
policy for £1000; the premium was
about £8 ss. lOd. a year. If they
died before they reached 21 I got my
money back plus 10 per cent. After
that they were fully covered. Suppose
each of those fellows lives until he is
74, a fair expectation of life. By that
time the premiums paid in will amount
to about £6OO. Bonuses will more than
double the policy—call it £2500 to be
on the safe side. In 10 years or so
the bonuses will almost make the policies
self-supporting.
* * * *
“W.E.M.”: “Oxmead” has quite a lot
to learn about Sydney University (B.
2/9/’36). My experience in struggling
through two faculties never included a
single course where it wasn’t necessary to
answer —or evade —the rollcall. While
most of the dons call the roll, some
prefer students to furnish signatures on
entry into the classrooms; the latter sys-
tem always presented some difficulties —
but not insuperable— to the proxy. Under
the present rule of compulsory attend-
ance at lectures the unfortunate under-
grad. who neglects to attend his 90 p.c.
is precluded—failing good excuse —from
entry to the annual exams. One of these
days the Uni. Senate will wake up and
get rid of this inequitable rule. Its aboli-
tion would certainly be succeeded by a
better University spirit.
* t- * *
“Borderite”: Residents along the
banks of the Murray River between
Mulwala and Corowa were recently
startled to see a large steamboat tugging
a barge up midstream. Corowa itself
had been warned ; the local newspaper
came out with big headlines: “Corowa
Shipping News. Steamer Due Here To-
day!” She was sent up for a big load
of red-gum logs a few miles above
Corowa. It is over 50 years since the
regular steamer traffic to Albury ceased,
and only the fact that the old Murray
was running a banker made it possible
for the big river boat, with its old-
fashioned paddle wheels, to ride safely
over the snags that have accumulated in
half a century.
* * * *
“Bardie”: As the best building ma-
terials for the Great Australian Home-
less give me antbed and spinifex; for
coolness and protection there is nothing
to beat them. The heaviest rains only
weld them together close as clay. The
blazing sun bakes them to cement. A
windbreak of spinifex keeps goats and
duststorms out more effectively than
brick walls, and a roof of it is superior
to galvanised iron. But in the nor’-west
Nature provides the best home of all
ready made, with water laid on —the
baobab tree. All you do is walk through
the split in the trunk of an old one, cut a
piece out of the pith, wring it into the
quartpot, light a fire and lie down beside
it in a shelter 20 feet square, white-ant
proof at that.
* * * *
“Shickarri”: Why not a great national
sanctuary for our unique fauna? The
Kruger National Park (8000 square
miles) is a splendid advertisement for
South Africa, and has drawn so many
tourists that smaller game sanctuaries
are springing up all over the Union. We
have millions of acres of idle but suit-
able land; with comfortable rest-camps
for tourists scattered plentifully through
it, and kangaroos, emus, koalas, possums
and what not free in its wild bush, it
would be a wonderful attraction. Yet
for our 150th birthday all we can think
of is a motor race plus a sort of glori-
fied bazaar!


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
■nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
To buy following volumes or numbers of
The Bulletin: March 26, 1881; July to Dec.,
1884; Jan. to Dec., 1885; Jan. to Dec., 1888;
Jan. to Dec., 1896; Jan. to Dec., 1897; Jan.
to June, 1899; Jan. to Dec., 1901; Jan. 9,
1913; and June 3, 1926. - Volume for 1896 and
succeeding volumes must include the covers.
—3027.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, used to typing
manuscripts, own machine, wants work. —3000.
Young man, Vic., well educated, 11 years’
exp. as commercial clerk, wants employment of
any sort.—27 Bo.
Two young men (23 and 21), N.S.W., exp.
with horse-breaking and with sheep and cattle,
own small droving plant, four horses, pack
saddles or buggy, and four good sheep-dogs,
want work together on sheep or cattle station
well out in N.T., Q'land or N.5.W.—2990.
To buy, second-hand, Coanes’s Australasian
Roads, recent edition. —3018.
To buy stamp collections and loose lots. —
3008.
To buy “National Geographic Magazine”
for August, 1935.—3002.
Competent person desired to collaborate in
rewriting Australian war play, pronounced by
Prior Prize judges to be “good material.” —
3021.
Address of James Thomas, author of verses
“Miril-yiril-yirie,” “Blue. Nose” and “Fairy
Ring.”—2999.
Information Sought.
(1) When was the first Test match Australia
v. England played at Melbourne ? (2) Names
of. players both teams and which won ? (3)
Which English team played a Test at Melbourne
when Macartney and Trumper opened the
innings for Australia, and year ? (4) Clem Hill’s
scores in Melbourne Tests ? (5) Highest indi-
vidual score Melbourne Tests England v. Aus-
tralia ? (6) Best bowling average in any one
game, either or both teams ?- —2994.
(1) March 15, 16 and 17, 1877. (2) For Aus-
tralia : C. Bannerman, N. Thompson, T. Horan,
D. Gregory, B. Cooper, W. Midwinter, E.
Gregory, J. Blackham, T. Garrett, T. Kendall,
J. Hodges. For England: H. Jupp, J. Selby,
H. Charlwood, G. Ulyett, A. Greenwood, T.
Armitage, A. Shaw, T. Emmett, A. Hill, J.
Lillywhite, J. Southerton. Australia (245 and
104) defeated England (196 and 108) by 45
runs. (3) Against A. O. Jones’s team at Mel-
bourne in 1908 Trumper and Macartney opened
for Australia. (4) Hill’s Test efforts at Mel-
bourne were 58, 188, and 0 in 1897-98; 15, 99,
28, 87 in 1901-02; 5, 20, 16 and 16 in 1903-04;
16, 3, 7 and 25 in 1907-08; 4,0, 22 and 11 in
1911-12. (5) C. Hill (Australia), 188 at Mel-
bourne in 1897-98; W. R. Hammond, 200 in
1928-29. (6) W. R. Rhodes (England), at Bir-
mingham (Eng.) in 1902, and M. A. Noble
(Australia), at Melbourne 1901-02, each took
7 wickets for 17 runs; W. R. Rhodes (Eng.),
with 15 for 124 at Melbourne in 1903-04, H.
Verity (Eng.), with 15 for 104 at Lord’s in 1934,
and F. R. Spofforth (Australia), with 14 for 90
at The Oval (Eng.) in 1882, have most wickets
in a match.
i * * *
What was the origin of the phrase “The
Ashes” in Test cricket ? —3042.
Australia defeated England at The Oval
(Eng.) in 1882 by 7 runs, and “Punch” com-
mented: “In Affectionate Remembrance of
English Cricket, which died at The Oval on
August 29, 1882. Deeply lamented by a large
circle of sorrowing friends and acquaintances.
R.I.P. N.B.—The body will be cremated and
the ashes taken to Australia.”
=H # *
What is the penalty for a revoke in auction
bridge ? —2966.
If the revoke has been made by declarer,
opponents take 100 points; if by opponents,
declarer, after consultation with dummy, may
take either 100 points or two of his opponents’
tricks.
* * * *
(1) Are there any native animals of Australia
that are not marsupials ? (2) Are there any
native animals in other countries that carry
their young in pouches ? — 2856
(1) Yes. Over 50 specie ; c f r;;‘s and mice,
including the water-rats (gc:::u /./ • dromys), and
over 50 species of Luts, . chid sg the large
flying-foxes. Also the two c : laying furred
animals, the plat>;v.s and sp.i.y ant-eater or
so-called “native porcupine.” (2) Yes. The
first-discovered or true opossums of North
or South America, after which our phalangers
were named, and several smaller kinds of mar-
supial as well.
* * *
Did Germany occupy Russian Poland during
the war ? Brief outline of the history of the
government of the territory during the war,
and when did it gain its independence ?— 2968.
Russian Poland was invaded by the Germans
and Austrians; by the end of 1915 the whole
country was occupied by their forces. On
November 5, 1916, the German and Austrian
Emperors, in a joint manifesto, proclaimed
Poland’s independence. A Provisional Council
of 25 members, summoned to draft the Con-
stitution, did not long exist, and in September,
1917, a new supreme authority, the Regency
Council (three members), was appointed, a
Ministry was formed and a new Council of
110 members summoned. In October, 1918,
this Council was dissolved by the Regency
Council, and a Constituent Assembly was pro-
claimed to determine the Constitution and take
over supreme authority. On November 9,
1918, Poland’s independence was proclaimed.
Five days later Pilsudski returned, assumed
supreme power and convoked the Constituent
Assembly, which confirmed him in office. On
June 28, 1919, the Treaty of Versailles recog-
nised Poland’s independence.
When will the next issue of “The Australian
Authors and Artists’ Handbook” be published,
from whom may it be obtained, and the price ?
—2855.
Next December, by Richard Geraint, Box
2455 MM, G.P.0., Sydney ; price, 3s.
* * * *
(1) Is it against the law in Queensland to
insure property against fire with a co. not
registered or in business in Australia ? (2)
What deposit does an insurance co. have to
place with the Queensland Government before
transacting business in Queensland ? (3) Can
the Queensland Government refuse to allow a
co. to transact business ?
(1) In Queensland no person other than the
Insurance Commissioner may carry on general
insurance (which includes lire risks) unless he
has obtained a license from the Commissioner.
You may go out of Australia and insure, but
any claim you may have would not come
within the jurisdiction of the local courts. Any
unlicensed person carrying on general insurance
business in the State is subject to a heavy
penalty. (2) The applicant for a license is re-
quired to deposit with the Treasurer a sum of
money determined as follows: Where the
income of the applicant from insurance pre-
miums in Queensland (deducting local re-
insurances) during the 12 months preceding the
date of the application does not exceed £lO,OOO
the deposit is £5OOO, if it exceeds £lO,OOO it
is £lO,OOO. (3) The Commissioner has power
to cancel a license, but appeal from his de-
cision to a police magistrate is allowed,
q %•. A
At what age are boys in Sydney engaged by
insurance cos. ? Educational qualifications;
and are they required to take up special train-
ing ? —2926.
Boys are generally engaged at from 15 to 17
As a rule, the intermediate certificate is re-
garded as the minimum educational standard.
Some companies have special entrance exami-
nations, with English and mathematics im-
portant subjects. No further study is neces-
sary, but a youth who aims at the higher posi-
tions should qualify in accountancy. The
various branches of insurance form a study in
themselves, and lectures are given every year
by experts of the Australian Insurance Insti-
tute.
* sK * j|t
How are annuities taxed under the Federal
Taxation Act ? —2954.
An annuity under a will or deed is taxable
as income from whichever source of income
the annuity is paid. If paid out of the profits
of a business it is taxable as income from
personal exertion. If paid out of proceeds of
investments, rents, interest, dividends, etc., it
is taxable as income from property. If paid
out of a mixed fund, partly income from per-
sonal exertion and partly income from
property, it is treated as being paid rateably
out of the income from each source, and it
is taxable accordingly. If paid exclusively
from corpus, it is taxable as income from
property. With an annuity that has been pur-
chased, only that portion which represents
interest is taxable, the portion representing re-
turn of capital being exempt.
* * * *
How can one get to Levuka, Taveuni. Lam-
basa and Lautoka from Suva and back, and
the cost ? —2956.
Burns, Philp’s Malake (382 tons) makes alter-
nate trips to Lautoka and Taveuni. Return
voyage on the Lautoka trip covers approxi-
mately 270 miles; fare, £4 or £5 according to
the route taken. On the Taveuni trip the boat
calls at Savusavu and various ports on the
Taveuni coast, the whole trip covering approxi-
mately 450 miles; cost, £7. The same co.
owns the Tui Lambasa (38 tons), which makes
regular trips to Lambasa via Levuka and
Mathuata ports; single trip, £3 10s. The Fiji
Shipping Co. owns the Adi Rewa (61 tons),
which makes trips fortnightly to Lambasa, call-
ing at Levuka and ports on the Mbua and
Mathuata coasts, the whole trip occupying
about 10 days; cost, approximately £9.
*i> '!* $
When a returned soldier who is drawing a
T.B. pension dies, do his wife and children
continue to receive war pensions? —2BB6.
Where an ex-soldier receiving war pension at
the special rate of £8 per fortnight in respect
of pulmonary tuberculosis dies, his widow
and/or children under the age of 16 are entitled
to receive war pensions at the maximum rate.
Where the pension rate is less than £8 per
fortnight and death is determined as not
attributable to war service, the war pensions
payable to his dependants at the time of tL-th
may be continued only on such basis.
* * * *
(1) Functions of Public Estate Improvements
Board, Q’land ? (2) Does it work in connec-
tion with the Q’land Main Roads Board ? (3)
From what source does it derive revenue ?
2935.
(1) The board’s work embraces opening up
new estates, reclamation and constructional
work with the Forestry Department; also it
assists municipalities and the Department of
Labor and Industry. (2) Only in cases where
the Main Roads Board has made a road and
its plant is still there; in that case, the P.E.T.
uses it. Vice versa, the P.E.I. does the same
for the M.R.B. (3) From different sources.
For opening up virgin country it gets cash
from loan. Forestry work comes out of
revenue. When assisting municipalities, the
council gets loan money and a subsidy and
places it to the credit of the P.E.1.; but where
councils are irt a bad financial way, P.E.I.
shares loan and expenses.
* * * *
(1) What is the food value of pasteurised
milk as compared with raw milk ? (2) Is it
safe to use pasteurised milk without boiling ?
—2744.
(1) The process of pasteurisation destroys
practically all infective germs in milk. A
temperature of 145 deg. to 150 deg. F. for not
less than half an hour is required. The milk
is then rapidly cooled to 55 deg. F., and
sealed. Although pasteurisation depreciates
the vitamin content to some extent, the food
value is not materially affected. (2) Subsequent
boiling is not advised. Suspected milk should
be discarded.
* * * *
How can 1 permanently darken and improve
the color of my hair without harmful results ?
—2713.
Hair stains or tinting mediums may be em-
ployed, but the effect will not be permanent.
Henna is a popular tinting medium; for
darker shades mix with black coffee infusion.
The hair should first be shampooed to remove
grease. For the henna pack, make into a thin
paste with boiling water. When cooled slightly,
apply freely to the hair and cover with a
towel wrung out in hot water. Allow the
towel to remain on for five minutes; then
rinse the hair in two changes of tepid water.
* * * *
What is the drug barbitone ? Has it an ill
effect if taken regularly for sleeping draughts ?
—2622.
It is one of the restricted drugs obtainable
only on the order of a medical practitioner
and acts chiefly upon the central nervous
system. It is prescribed in nervous insomnia
and sleeplessness associated with cardiac disease;
in ordinary dosage neither blood pressure nor
respiration is influenced by its action. The
cumulative effect is harmful when taken over a
period.
* * * *
I have been a sufferer for some years from
severe' neuralgic headaches on the left side of
the head, extending from the top of the head
to the neck. Every morning I awake to this
severe pain. 1 am 68. Cause ancl cure ?
2678.
The neuralgic headache suggests local neuri-
tis, and such things as septic teeth or tonsils
and chronic nerve congestion resulting from
chill must be considered in adopting a treat-
ment. A doctor would advise. Meanwhile,
keep the part warm, take frequent aperient
salines, and apply analgesic liniment locally for
relief of pain.
$ Jfc #
(1) Is the treatment of enlarged tonsils by
diathermy successful ? (2) Approximate cost ?
—2508.
(1) There are two main types of operation
for removal of enlarged or septic tonsils, dis-
section under a general anaesthetic and ton-
sillotomy by means of the guillotine. The
former is usually favored for permanent re-
sults, especially when the tonsils are deep-
seated or buried. Another method is that
of destroying the diseased tonsil by cauterisa-
tion. This involves diathermy, the electro-
cautery or chemical applications. (2) Fee for
dissection is from 10 guineas; hospital charges
extra.
sis sK * *
What is psoriasis, symptoms, cause and
cure ? —2827.
Scale eczema, or psoriasis, is a chronic affec-
tion of the skin. Though under-elbow and
knee regions are commonly affected, location
and extent vary; there is usually an inherited
trait. It is not contagious. Home treatment is
out of question. Arsenic and its derivatives
may be prescribed by a doctor. Sulphur baths
and ointments containing chrysarobin as the
active ingredient are the usual external
remedies, and a non-acid diet is indicated.
Avoid red meat, condiments and heating foods,
include a mild saline in the morning glass of
hot water, and take cod-liver oil as tolerated
if of the thin, dry-skinned type.
* ❖ ❖ %
What causes freckles, and can you recom-
mend a lotion that will bleach them ? —2806.
Facial freckles are due to increase in the
natural pigment matter in the skin ; excess of
iron ini the diet tends to aggravate the trouble.
Upon exposure to direct sunlight, the pigment
coloration is influenced by chemically active
rays. Avoid unnecessary exposure, and use
a lotion of equal parts lemon-juice, glycerine
and orange-flower water as a bleach. Dab over
the freckled area daily, after bathing the face
with tepid oatmeal water. If trouble persists,
either a peroxide or mercurial cream may be
used at night; the mercurial cream must be
applied sparingly if the skin is sensitive. Cala-
mine lotion is a useful covering liquid for
day application; it also serves as a protective.
* * =i= *
(1) Is pruritis ani curable ? (2) Treatment ?
—2590.
Response to treatment is uncertain; though
there is an apparent cure, change of diet,
etc., may renew the trouble. Examina-
tion is advised for location of the cause. This
may be purely local; otherwise the focus of
infection must be determined. Mild degrees
of irritation could be due to congestion caused
by constipation. Acids, condiments and excess
of sugar must be avoided. Take a tepid soda
bath at night; after drying, smear with zinc
cream and dust with zinc and starch powder.
An astringent anaesthetic ointment may be pre-
scribed under medical supervision.
$ * $ *
(1) What is used to make hydrangea flowers
pink and blue; and method of application ?
(2) To obtain show blooms, what is the best
manure, and when should it be applied ?
3034.
(1) Lime mixed into the soil will cause pink
flowers and sulphate of iron blue flowers.
(2) Give a dressing of superphosphate when
the flower-heads show; fortnightly apply weak
liquid manure. Water freely. In hot inland
districts such as yours the flowers need pro-
tection, or edges of petals will whiten.
* * * *
Methods of treating geranium cuttings before
planting ? Best wood to use ? —2748.
Take cuttings of unflowered wood, remove
leaves, and lay the pieces in a dry shed for
24 hours. Then set cuttings in compost of
loam, leaf mould and sand, and water regu-
larly until growth takes place. The rooted
cuttings will be ready for the open garden
in about three months. Spraying with lime-
sulphur will keep the plants healthy and check
leaf-diseases.
* * . * *
How to rear tuberous begonias ? —2745.
In September set tubers in small pots or
shallow boxes of sandy loam, being careful not
to cover the crowns with soil, and place under
glass or in a conservatory. Keep the earth
damp. When leaf-growth is firm, remove to
larger pots or baskets. To grow in the open
garden, select a cool, shady position that gets
a touch of morning sun. Best soil is a mixture
of two parts loam and one each of leaf mould
and coarse sand. Mulch with retted manure
or doses of weak liquid manure as soon as the
flower-buds show.
Brief Answers.
K.H.H.: Paterson, Laing and Bruce, Ltd.,
Wynyard-street; Pauline Traced Linen Co.,
49a Druitt-street; D. and W. Murray, Ltd., 11l
York-street; W. Brash McArthur, Ltd., 251
Clarence-street; Robert Reid and Co., 32
York-street; Tussora, Ltd., 155 Clarence-
street —all Sydney F.W.: (1) The conven-
tional nautical mile (the knot in speed measure-
ments) is 10 cables, assumed at 6080 ft. (strictly
6069.7 ft.), but the nautical mile is strictly the
length of a minute of the meridian, and differs
according to latitude. (2) The main bridge
(Sydney Harbor) is a steel arch span of 1650 ft.,
with a rise of 350 ft. at centre of lower chord
at crown. The highest point of top chord is
440 ft. above mean sea level... .M.G.V.: Ques-
tion too vague... .H.S.: Cannot recommend
any particular 0ne....M.E.: Write Chief
Veterinary Surgeon, Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney P.M.: Write secretary, Society of
Australian Genealogists, 91 Phillip-street,
Sydney F.M.D.: They stand equal chances.
... .J.R.: Permit would be granted. Apply to
nearest police station. The vehicle could be
towed in by another registered vehicle....
T.S.: (1) See the Fiji Handbook, an official
publication, which shortly will be obtainable
from Dalgety’s, Sydney; price 2s. (2) An
advt. in the Fiji “Times and Herald,” Suva,
may help. (3) Get in touch with Burns, Philp
(South Sea) Co., Morris,' Hcdstrom, Ltd., or
Brown and Joske, Ltd. —all at Suva, Fiji
A.N.: A son takes his father’s surname. It
is the only one to which he is entitled, unless
he has changed it by deed poll. Otherwise
no steps are, required “to get back to his own
name”... .F.W.: You should write to thu
Lands Department, Sydney, and ask that
action be taken to make the adjoining farmers
clear their respective sections of the drain....
K. : (1) Anthony Eden was born on June
12, 1897. (2) Yes, he attended the Imperial
Press Conference at Melbourne in 1925....
H.S.C.: James Bridie is the nom-de-plume of
O. H. Mavor. He is a Glasgow physician....
J. : Only one edition of Ernest Favenc’s
History of Australian Exploration, 1788-1888,
was published... .P.K.8.: Unable to trace....
L. Merely a fallacy, originating in primi-
tive hygiene W.8.M.: There is nothing in
the Laws of Cricket to prevent a bowler bowl-
ing in the manner indicated. Can find no
record of such a ball being delivered in a first-
class match P.E.A.: Write to the Govern-
ment Tourist Bureaux at the various places in-
dicated... .A.E.: Such information, being a
military secret, is not given to the public....
M. The common garden plant larkspur
(delphinium) is known to be poisonous to
stock T.R.: The Australian Museum,
Sydney, has on sale a number of colored post-
cards of Australian birds, of which series l
contains an illustration of the emu. Price is
Is. per set of five cards W. 8.8.: Canoes,
Dinghies and Sailing Punts (2s. 3d.)... .W.S.J.:
Stanley Gibbons, Ltd., 391 Strand, London.
K.T.B.: The United States fleet arrived
in Australia July 23, 1925, the portion which
visited Sydney consisting of the California,
West Virginia, New Mexico, Colorado, Ten-
nessee, Maryland, Idaho, Mississippi, Relief,
Bridge and Brazos, with Admiral S. S. Robi-
son, Commander in Chief of the Battle Fleet,
in charge. The flagship, on which was Admiral
Coontz, accompanied the vessels that visited
Melbourne... .C.E.8.: Worth two or three
guineas, but you would get much less from a
bookseller. Best plan would be to get in
touch with a private buyer by advertising....
H.R.: Australian Club, 165 Macquarie-street;
Union Club, 2 Bligh-street; Commercial
Travellers’ Association, N.S.W., Martin-place;
Royal Automobile Club, 89 Macquarie-street;
Tattersall’s Club, 157 Elizabeth-street; New
South Wales Sports Club, 10 Hunter-street;
New South Wales Club, 31 Bligh-street; and
Y.M.C.A., 325 Pitt-street—all Sydney... .C.L.:
As such employees are covered by a Federal
award you should get in touch with the Deputy-
Industrial Registrar, Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court, Darlinghurst H. 8.: Appeared
in The Bulletin of April 15, 1936, page 8.
. ...S.R.W.: Will be available in six weeks
from Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-
street, Sydney... .R.J.8.: The determination
of the Vic. Grocers’ Wages Board which came
into operation on August 11 does not apply
to Gippsland. A grocer’s assistant in that
district is provided for under a determination
of the Vic. Country Shop Assistants’ Board
which came into force on October 12, 1931.
This is obtainable from the Government
Printer, Melbourne, 3d., plus postage. The
legal rate for an assistant depends on his age
and/or experience at the trade... .F.M.: Can
find no mention of a Lieut.-Col. Menzie in
the Historical Records of New South Wales
or in any early newspaper indexes or other
records. The name does not appear in the
lists of military officers in either the N.S.W.
or Tas. Almanacs up to the ’fifties. A Lieut.
Charles A. F. N. Menzies, of the Royal
Marines, was Commandant at Newcastle in
1804 and 1805... .H.M.: (1) Dry ice is obtain-
able from Mount Frome Lime, Ltd., Burrows-
road, St. Peters, Sydney. (2) 3£d. per pound.
Quantities of 5001 b. and over are subject to a
discount of from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c. (3) Trans-
ported in a dry-ice shipper from Sydney and
Brisbane, the loss, after 18 hours, was only
10 p.c. (4) It may be transported over N.S.W.
Government railways by passenger train at
one-quarter normal rates 5.A.8.: A. L.
Turner, 476 Pitt-street, or the Quay Bird and
Puppy Shop, 25 Pitt-street —both Sydney—can
supply the animals. Both the white and colored
varieties can be obtained at from 2s. 6d. per
pair upwards... .A.R.D.: (1) Published in
Bushman and Buccaneer, now out of print. (2)
The Bulletin Reciter is obtainable from the
N. Bookstall Co., Sydney... .R.J.G.: (1)
Yes. (2) Probably an order would be made for
payment of the whole amount due, together
with costs of court; but you could ask for
time in which to pay, and no doubt it would
be granted. (3) Seemingly you have no de-
fence. All you could do would be to explain
your circumstances and ask for time J.S.:
(1) and (3) There being no legal adoption and
neither you nor your husband having been
appointed guardian of the child, you have no
claim. (2) No, marriage does not affect the
matter. (4) Yes, in the absence of legal adop-
tion. (5) No F.H.: Coolalie is a N.S.W.
abo. place-name meaning “south wind”....
K. : N.S.W. Premier Stevens was born at
Marrickville, Sydney, on January 2, 1889....
J.W.D.: “The Arcadians,” written by Mark
Ambient and A. M. Thompson, music by
Lionel Monckton and Howard Talbot, was
first produced at the .Shaftesbury Theatre,
London, April 28, 1909... .(Many others
mailed.)


I
n
111
►
B
W
\
f i
N
A deep mountain gorge blocked by Boulder
Dam and a vast desert becomes an in-
land sea—Lake Mead. Colossal sculptured
beads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln
and Theodore Roosevelt bring to life the
sheer rock face of towering Mt. Rushmore.
In New Mexico’s Carlsbad Caverns, fantastic
limestone decorations are made available to
everyone . . . far beneath the surface of the
earth. Such Man-and-N a I arc teamwork adds
salty fascination to travel through America.
Travel is outstanding in comfort and econ-
omy because of far-flung railway systems that
make all America a neighborhood. Trains in
which it is a pleasure to sleep, a satisfaction
to dine, a restful interlude free from annoy-
ance or responsibility. Modern
air-conditioning makes its own
perfect climate. Safe speed
takes you 3000 miles in 75
hours. Club and observation
cars for diverting hours with
interesting companions.
Valet, maid, barber, assure your arrival re-
freshed and ready for the day. Stop over
most anywhere without additional cost.
From the time you sail for California aboard
the luxurious “Mariposa” or “Monterey” of
the Matson-Oceanic fleet, you find a new
measure of romance, coupled with gratify-
ingly low fares and incider tal expenses.
Eighteen glorious days on the Pacific —stops
at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii-
then across America via your chosen route.
Finally, a wide selection of trans-Atlantic
]i ners —f or this is the short, quick, natural
highroad to England. Secure a copy of
“England Across America”, a fascinating
booklet telling the interest
of this Antipodes-to-England
trail via Matson-Oceanic and
America. You’ll appreciate its
luxury, flexibility and cease-
less, ever-changing parade of
wonders. Free upon request.
asdf
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
la Uni Oceanic lint
(Incorporated in U.S. A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981- 3
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Canberra View
Reductions of still-exorbitant emer-
gency taxation imposed by the Lyons
Government are officially described as
“concessions to taxpayers.” Increases of
public-service salaries to boom-time levels
and of Parliamentary and Ministerial
ditto to 5 p.c. and 1\ p.c. below
those levels are “restorations.” —W. C. G.
(N.s:w.).
“Diversion”
Mr. Gullett has been severely criticised
for his trade-diversion policy, but let us
be fair. He seems to have been very
successful in diverting to South Africa
and South America a very substantial
portion of the export wool trade previ-
ously done by Australia with Japan.
Also, if we look at the thing in the
right light, we shall perceive that the
peculiar form of encouragement which is
being given to manufacturers of wool
substitutes may eventually be the
means of starting a new industry in
Australia. —Yours etc., Woolgathering
(N.S.W.).
The Late Shopping Night
Sydney retains that anachronism the
late shopping night. It means that Friday
is virtually a 15-hour day for the assist-
ants, mostly girls, and the result is that
they are tired out at the week-end.
But the remedy is in the hands of
shoppers. If they stopped buying on that
night it would not pay the shops to keep
open after 6 p.m.
Another needed reform is permission
for women and girl assistants to rest
while they are waiting for customers.
It is wrong to make them stand all day,
particularly in summertime. I have heard
that there are Seats for Shop Assistants
Acts in different parts of Australia.
Apparently they are never enforced. —
S. B. (N.S.W.).
Rapid Fire Overhead
In a remote part of my Dominion I
read a statement (B. 29/7/’36) concern-
ing the firing of a machine-gun through
the propeller of an aeroplane: “each
time the plunger appears the trigger is
tripped ; consequently a rate of up to
1000 rounds per minute can be attained.”
The trigger is part of the lock, which
moves back some inches when the gun is
fired. So, although the engine may turn
over at top speed, the gun will not fire
any faster than if that engine were idling.
Although the plunger appears more
times per minute when the engine is turn-
ing over at speed, there are times when
there is no trigger to be tripped—“lock”
plus trigger has not yet come back from
recoil due to the last round.
The gun will fire only when the pro-
jection of the plunger and the position
of the trigger coincide. That is, the
plunger may appear five times in a given
time and coincide only with the position
of the trigger once out of those five
times, which means that only one round
will be fired.
In effect, the speed of the engine has
nothing to do with the rate at which the
gun fires.
If it will fire 460 rounds per minute
on terra firma, you will not get a greater
number of rounds away in one minute
if you put that gua into a Schneider
Trophy ’plane. —C. A. Robinson (M.L.).
“Is It Grassed?”
It is not the fault of landowners that
young men won’t go on the land ; it is
want of guts on the part of alleged
landseekers. When they can’t pick the
eyes out of a property that a man has
taken up perhaps 30 or more years ago
the courage oozes out of them.
On my place (Tweed River) there are
only the wife and I (our boys are
on their own farms). Frankly, we own
too much land to work. But if one gives
a man a job one has to pay insurance
and is then taxed for employing anyone,
so we find it much easier to do just suffi-
cient for ourselves.
I have offered about 120 to 130 acres
to young men for what it cost me as a
selection (£400). What is the first thing
they say? Always “Is it grassed?" A
bit of toil that will keep them away
from the pictures at the week-end is no
good to them . —S. G. (N.S.W.).
“Abolishing Poverty”
“A.D.” wants “a useful craze” such
as “sound Government finance and fair
taxation.” In the latter I willingly join
with him. Taxation is damnably unfair
to the primary producer. But a system
that can result in such suffering and loss
as many thousands have endured during
the depression through no fault of their
own is inherently vicious and must be
ended.
Human happiness comes before any
system. I said the Douglas “craze” for
abolishing poverty is a noble one. If
“A.D.” can furnish a better I will follow
him.—A.E.T. (N.S.W.).
Section 92
The framers of our Constitution knew
what they meant, and meant what they
said, when they wrote in Section 92 that
“trade, commerce and intercourse among
the States shall be absolutely free.” Such
was the burden of a brief speech of ex-
Senator Keating at the annual com-
memoration day gathering of the Com-
mercial Travellers in Tasmania in August
of last year. Mr. Keating (one of the
original Senators from Tasmania) urged
that the Tas. Government should inter-
vene in the Privy Council appeal in sup-
port of the views contended for by James
(it did).
That speech made an immediate and
lasting impression. The C. T. Club at
Launceston invited its long-time mem-
ber to attend again this year, and from
the convenient jumping-off ground of
the toast of Trade and Commerce to dis-
course upon the implications of the recent
Privy Council decision. His earnest ad-
vice to electors in the event of a Con-
stitutional-amendment referendum to
watch their step and give away nothing
in excess of the needs of any demon-
stfated emergency has already sunk
deeply into the minds of Tasmanians. —
W. W. B. (Tas.).
.
“Gifts of Jam’’
The jam-gift-advertising stunt leaves
me cold. If the idea stopped at the gift
business it would be all to the good ; but
sales of jam are looked for—in England!
Carrying coals to Newcastle is not in it
with this fatuity. We have heard of en-
gineers adding southern coal to the New-
castle article, but the practice of mixing
Australian jam with the English corn-
modity is never likely to arise— Philgee
(N.S.W.).
To p romote Friendship
p „ nnle v
An organisation (the Young People s
folythemc Friendship Society) was
founded here three years ago for the pur-
P ose .°f promoting international undei-
standing among the youth of the various
countries. Non-profit, non-political and
non-sectarian, it is open to all young
people of good character, 14 to
w i s h some reliable person m bydney
would obtain and send me a list of young
people interested in corresponding with
boys and girls in the United States.
We don’t place any special restrictions
upon correspondence, but we like to have
boys write to boys and girls to girls if
possible.— Edward A. Rhinehart, 3733
So. Gramercy PL, Los Angeles, Cal.


FOR HAWKESBURY AND
NEWCASTLE.
Hawkesbury Flying: Water
Waggon; next, Heroic Faith.
Grand Handicap: Curator ; next,
Loud Applause.
Clarendon Handicap: Archmel ;
next, Tuckerbox.
Newcastle Mile: Verdun; next,
Connottar Lad.
Newcastle Cup: Imbiber ; next,
Tapestry.
RANDWICK RACES
SPRING MEETING, 1936
3rd, sth, 7th and 10th OCTOBER.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Tullamarine Handicap: Bustard ;
next, Donaster.
Quality Handicap: Valiant
Chief; next, Heros.
Ais 1 a Handicap: Palatinate ;
next, Sculpin.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A Macquarie-street man, Dr. Nigel
Smith, owns Shakespeare, who is by
Tippler— Spear Thrust, and his colt now
looms up as a formidable rival to Gold
Rod—over the Derby distance, at all
events. Seven to one for the Rosehill
Guineas on Saturday, Shakespeare proved
too good at nine furlongs for the even-
money favorite, Talking.
Certainly Talking was ridden with no
great judgment. Acting on instructions,,
Donkin took the favorite to the front
early. The Magpie colt had got away
rather badly, and he was allowed no
respite at any stage. When challenged
by Shakespeare, he battled on pretty well,
but was outstayed, going under by half a
length ; time, lmin. 53sec. Shakespeare
had been kicked at the post, and showed
the mark of the injury when Parsons
dismounted. He must be a game, hardy
fellow, and he looks it.
Custos finished strongly to get third,
a length behind Talking. He is doing a
nice Derby preparation and is improving
with every race. Bobby, who had no luck
in running, was fourth. Billy Boy played
up at the start and beat himself before
barrier-rise; still he was able to make
a fast move at the turn. Third there, he
wound up fifth.
Mrs. S. R. Coward must regret not
having Cid in the Epsom. One of the
outsiders (14 to 1 could be got), he beat
all the Epsom horses in the Camellia
.Stakes. King’s Head, unbacked, was a
fair second, Turbine third and Capris
fourth —there was a bit of money for
this very nice mare and she finished
fourth very fast. King Gee, with 101 b.
more than his Epsom impost, was
fifth. His performance was rather
good, for, slow away with Barak,
he was forced wide at the turn and when
looking dangerous was hampered by
Cid. At least one bookmaker seemed
anxious to lay King Gee at sixes. The
well-backed Auto Buzz, from Queens-
land, disappointed ; he merely plodded
along. More of a stayer than a sprinter,
perhaps.
Clever riding by Fred Shean nearly
landed Lough Neagh (10 to 1) the winner
of the Hill Stakes. The old chestnut
made the running at a slow pace and
got a break at the turn, but Silver Ring
(7 to 2) overtook him in the last stride
or two; half a head, with Sarcherie
two lengths away. Gay Blonde was
fourth. Brazilian’s effort was poor.
Still the colt was cut off at the start
and got into lots of bother in the first
three furlongs.
The judge couldn’t separate Fair Diana
(5 to 1) and Journal (15 to 1) at the
finish of the Spring Handicap. Rogerio
made it fast, but Fair Diana displaced
him at , the Leger and looked an easy
winner till Journal started a whirlwind
run. Dulcedo, prominent throughout,
was two lengths back. Soft Step showed
a return to Queensland form by finish-
ing fourth. It was his best effort since
he joined Andrews’s team at Warwick
Farm. The Spearfelt horse is a genuine
stayer, and even if he misses the Metrop.
he should pay his way at Randwick in
long races. „
Loud Applause was favorite. He re-
fused to gallop until the race was over.
Spear Prince was squeezed back early
and was wide out in the first half-mile.
His effort in the circumstances can be
passed over. He never looked fitter.
Cool Spell, a winner at Randwick last
season, but a failure since in Queensland,
returned somebody good money in the
first division of the Highweight. Backed
from fifteens to sevens, Mrs. F. M.
Chapman’s gelding galloped like a good
one in the straight, downing Goorka
and Kaylah. Kaylah looks cherry-ripe
for a race in easier company. Heroic
Faith, the favorite, and the well-backed
Water Waggon had had enough a long
way from home. Rebel Lad, a Maori-
land moke, who started at outside odds,
was noticed doing well in fourth place at
the finish.
Pastoralist Jack Leahy made no mis-
take with Archmel (6 to 1) in the second
division. Stalin tried to steal the race
at the turn, but he was no match for
Archmel over the last furlong. Cognac
battled on gamely to run third. The
Newcastle-owned Dungala led early;
six furlongs is apparently as far as he
likes. Quizzical did little better than at
her previous start, but Maestro, who now
carries the colors of trainer J. W. Cook,
was fourth.
i|; jje * *
Valiant Chief was tested for stamina
in the Mentone Cup, a mile and a
quarter. His inability to finish nearer
than third does not say much for his
Caulfield Cup prospects, brilliant galloper
though he is. Archie Crofts, his owner,
dashed off to the M.C.C. ground after the
race and had the further mortification of
seeing South Melbourne go down to
Collingwood in the League semi-final.
Crofts is ex-president of South Mel-
bourne.
On the eve of the Mentone fixture
Melbourne’s biggest punter offered £lOOO
to £2OO against Valiant Chief in the
Mentone Cup. A timorous bookmaker
accepted £75 to £l5. Fred Hoysted’s
candidate started at 9 to 4, enabling the
overnight wager to be retailed profitably.
What caused this punter to make a
set against Valiant Chief was that 18
horses accepted for the Mentone Cup
and the son of Heroic had 9.7, which
is 71b. more than weight-for-age. Also
he did not class Valiant Chief as a
stayer. Course scratchings reduced the
field to 16.
Valiant Chief jumped off well from
No. 1 berth, and Voitre rode a perfect
tactical race. Third out of the straight,
his mount never was farther back than
fourth and experienced an unhampered
passage throughout. At no stage, how-
ever, did he look like winning.
Success in the Mentone Cup went
most worthily to Golden Promise (12 to
1), trained by Holt for J. M. Niall, of the
V.R.C. committee, who is overseas. In
four starts as a juvenile Golden Promise
won the A.J.C. Canonbury Stakes and
finished second in both the V.R.C. Mari-
byrnong Plate and Byron Moore Stakes.
His conqueror in the Moore Stakes was
Strathardale, owned by the late L. K. S.
Mackinnon, whose wife and son had
acquired Golden Promise. On the
Mackinnons retiring from racing Golden
Promise was bought at auction by Niall.
Golden Promise did not race last
season. On August 15 he started at
33 to 1 and “came from the clouds” to
run Desert Chief to less than a length
over a mile at Moonee Valley. This
caused the natty little brown stallion to
be made favorite for the V.A.T.C.
Heatherlie Handicap on September 5,
but although Jack Holt was confident of
victory Golden Promise finished in the
ruck.
Nothing could have been more trades-
manlike than the manner in which
Golden Promise gathered-in the 33-to-l
pacemaker Frill Prince, and he immedi-
ately went to the head of Melbourne
quotations on the Caulfield Cup. Holt
has prepared three winners of the race —
Eurythmic (1920), Maple (1928) and
High Syee (1929). He is distinctly in
line for another triumph.
Lou Robertson, who has had to with-
draw his star gallopers, Feldspar and
Garrio, from spring engagements,
saddled-up Dictator (Chivalrous Miss
Neville), Royal Messenger (Marconigram
—Purple Lilac) and Sithon (Thracian —
Determilla) at the week-end. Dictator
and Sithon belong to A. T. Creswick, and
Royal Messenger to T. Hogan. All have
been widely mentioned in connection
with spring events.
Dictator, whose reputed mission is the
Melbourne Cup, was a 3-to-l favorite
for the mile Yarraman Handicap. After
looking home and dried he succumbed
by half a length to Arabian Knight (25
to 1); an apprentice jockey did not
handle Dictator to best advantage.
Royal Messenger was a rather creditable
fifth in the Mentone Cup, just behind
old Chilperic, who is in great nick.
Sithon did not encourage his Caulfield
Cup backers by being only seventh in
the second division of the Dandenong
Welter, but he had not raced for many
months.
Allendale (Rossendale Duchess
Glass) was next in demand to Dictator
for the Yarraman Handicap. His fifth
wasn’t worthy of a Derby aspirant, and
this colt must have been lucky to beat
Conandale at Williamstown on August
22. Conandale scored subsequently at
Epsom and Caulfield. A big sum was
recently refused for Conandale.
Balkan Prince divided favoritism with
Radiant Star for the first division of the
D'andenong Welter. The horse from
Westralia narrowly defeated his rival for
third place, Palatinate winning from the
Adelaide neddy Counter Patrol, who is
sure to pay his way in Melbourne. The
second division went to Busselton (16 to
1), who led all the way and lasted just
long enough to stave off a challenge from
Bite Again.
The" dynamic energy of Neville Per-
cival enabled the Irish-bred Plectrum to
squeeze home by half a head from
Plankton in the middle-distance Newry
Purse. Plectrum’s victory at 7 to 2
followed on the success of another
favorite, Regular Bachelor (5 to 2), in the
six-furlongs Newry Plate. Regular
Bachelor handled 10.5 superbly. In the
autumn this Queenslander annexed the
Futurity Stakes and Newmarket Handi-
cap. It was a classy effort to come from
a long way back and pip Gay Pop on
the post on Saturday.
* * * v
Many Epsom and Metrop. doubles
have gone west this year. Pamelus was
taken out of both races on Thursday, and
so was Kinnoull, while Egmont came out
of the Metrop, and Contact was
scratched for all engagements. Pamelus
did no fast work last week, but may still
be forward enough to run at the AJ.C.
meeting, though Dukes, his owner-
trainer, may be concentrating on a Mel-
bourne programme. His horse has
Bst. 131 b. in the Caulfield Cup, 9st. in
the Cantala Stakes—a race well worth
winning and not particularly hard to win
—and Bst. 81b. in the Melbourne Cup,
and there are w.f.a. events to be picked
up in between.
* * * *
Now it’s Marabou that has broken
down. A vet. had to be called in on
Friday, and his report was so discourag-
ing that the Melbourne Cup winner
has been scratched for all engagements.
C. B. Kellow gave 5500 guineas for him,
and £350 is all the plucky ex-cyclist has
got back—for places in the Williamstown
Stakes, the St. Kilda Handicap and the
Memsie Stakes. Still, if Marconigram’s
son turns out half the stud success that
Heroic has proved Kellow will have no
cause to repine.
* * * *
Limond Lad may have Allendale as
an opponent in the S.A. Derby, to be
run on October 10. If he wins he is to
go over for the Victoria Derby, and, of
course, he is in the Cup as well, but he
is thought to be a bit green for two
miles. Adelaide men with some know-
ledge of Veilmond are positive that his
younger brother, when thoroughly
seasoned, will be as good a stayer.
❖ i|c * %
The V.A.T.C.’s year closes on August
31. Though it added £3220 to prize-
money in 1935-36, making the total
£62,250, the club made profits amount-
ing to £11,406, and 1935-36 expenditure
included considerable improvements,
among them “a daylight system of arti-
ficial lighting unique on racecourses in
Australia.” Sydney proprietary concerns,
which give poor prize-money, never dis-
close their finances, but it is only reason-
able to suppose that their profits are not
comparable with those of the amateur
club which races at Caulfield. Shares
in at least two concerns can be picked up
pretty cheap.
* * * :!:
Handicappers have been throwing out
tips. When the A.J.C. man gave The
Marne Bst. 101 b. for the Tramway Han-
dicap at Tatt.’s meeting, placing the
chestnut within 111 b. of Cuddle —there
is 241 b. between them in the mile handi-
cap—it was plain that he regarded The
Marne as having a great chance in the
Epsom with Bst. 21b. Now Panax, who
was second to The Marne in the Tram-
way, with 7st. 61b., and has 7st. 111 b.
in the Epsom, goes up to Bst. 41b. in
the Toorak Handicap. Regular Bache-
lor, who was given 9st. 71b. in the Epsom
(he has been scratched), gets 9sf. 91b. in
the Toorak, but if he had not won in
such masterly style on Saturday he
might have got in with less than the
A.J.C. handicapper awarded him. Regu-
lar Bachelor had 9st. in the V.A.T.C.
Futurity Stakes and Bst. 111 b. in the
Newmarket, in both of which he was
successful. He is sure to be in great
demand for the Toorak if he keeps right.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Doncaster St.
Leger went to Boswell, American-owned
but English-bred—he belongs to W.
Woodward, of the New York J.C. Bos-
well was at the nice price of 20 to 1. As
the favorites, Rhodes Scholar and Pre-
cipitate, finished down the course, the
Ring must have had a skinner, especially
as. Mahmoud, the Derby winner, was
backed down to fives. This is the third
American win in the Yorkshire race;
the first was Pierre Lorillard’s ( in 1881,
with Iroquois. Iroquois had won the
Derby. A. Belmont’s Tracery, winner
in 1912, was English-bred.
Footbrawl
The V.F.L. second semi-final drew a
crowd of nearly 56,000. Collingwood
won through to the grand final by beat-
ing South Melbourne, 12-18 to 10-17.
Collingwood was checked in tHe third
term by pace and individual brilliance,
and South led by 13 points. But ’Wood
settled down again in the last quarter,
gained the lead and held it.
South meets Melbourne in the final on
Saturday, and the winners play Colling-
wood the following week.
* * * *
The Australian Union team was beaten
again, this time by Canterbury, but it was
the visitors’ best game in Maoriland.
Behind 3-11 at the spell, they rallied in
the second half to get within one point
of the winners, 18-19, at the finish.
❖ sfc * sje , •
Drummoyne scored five tries to ’Var-
sity’s three tries, outpunched the Students
in the final quarter-hour, when the game
threatened to develop into a Donnybrook,
and won the Sydney Rugby Union pre-
miership by one point, 19-18. The Uni-
versity forwards had the better of the
Drummoyne pack in the first half, ruck-
ing solidly and following fast on the ball.
A couple of tries and two converted
goals and one penalty goal to the Reds’
two tries, only one converted, gave the
Students a 13-8 lead at lemons. After-
wards the Drummoyne forwards delved
in with more vigor, and a couple of
quick tries made it 14-13. Nicholas con-
verted another ’Varsity try to put the
Students ahead 18-14, but a converted try
to Drummoyne when the ’Varsity full-
back was beaten by a bounce finished it.
Nicholas, the ’Varsity winger, scored
12 points, bringing his tally for the
season to 198, 77 better than the previous
record put up by Barnes in 1932.
(Continued on next page.)
A 53-year-old cyclist, J. T. Summers,
won the professionals’ section of the
Goulburn-to-Sydney race in 6hr. 18min.
30sec. —the distance is 128 miles. Fast-
est time went to a South Australian.
W. K. Moritz —shr. 25min. M. Roth-
well, a Sydney man, was first home
among the amateurs in shr. 46min. 59
4-ssec. Winterbottom finished in fast-
est time, shr. 31min. 19sec. from scratch,
but was disqualified on the ground that
he had cut across Nelson in the final
sprint. He is to appeal, and should be
successful. Till then fastest time is
Nelson’s, l-ssec. behind Winterbottom.


MODEL 67
,22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action,
Barrel, Elevating Rear Sight. Price
Carriage Paid.
27in.
50/-
MODEL 68
• 22-c.al. Single-shot, Bolt-action,
Barrel, Adjustable Peep Sight. Price
Carriage Paid.
MODEL 69
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in.
Round Tapered Barrel; Two Magazines,
one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle, with
Sporting Rear Sight. Price 85/-
With Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 90/-
Carriaee Paid.
•WINCHESTER
WORLD STANDARD RIFLES
have special proof steel barrels for the use of
Super-speed Cartridges, and are scientifically
proportioned, drilled and rifled to ensure maxi-
mum accuracy and balance. Full-size Walnut
Stock with Shot (iun type Butt greatly adds to
appearance and ease in handling.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422
Expert Telescopic Sight. Price . . £B/10/-
Carriage Paid.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
MODEL 62
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-
repeating Rifle, 23in. Round Barrel, for Short, Long
and Long-rifle. Price .... £5/5/-. Carriage paid.
MODEL 63
The “Speed King" .22-cal. Auto-
matic, 23in. Round Barrel; for
Long-rifle Super-speed Cartridges only.
Price ...... £9/10/- Carriage paid.
Model 2X, 24in.
Iver Johnson Single-shot Bolt-
action Rifles, .22 cal. Model X,
22in. barrel 30/-
barrel • • • 35/-
Carriage Paid.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The rising lightweight Hobbs had
another victim at Leichhardt last week
in Sharpe, whom he outpointed in a ten-
rounder. Sharpe is wise in the ways of
the ring, and, aware of this, the young-
ster was cautious for the greater part of
the bout. When he cut loose after the
eighth he had all the better of it.
¥ * * *
Rosenbloom is on his way back to the
U.S.A. He talks of returning at the end
of the year and bringing a boxer or two
with him. His engagement was a very
unfortunate investment for the
“National” Boxing “Club,” but he
profited little, for, as with many another
pug from beyond the Pacific, he dropped
most of his ring earnings at the races.
Rosenbloom has no high opinion of
Henneberry, but thinks there are lots of
good boys boxing in preliminaries and
scrapping in the suburbs. That is the
general opinion among old-timers, but it
is not shared by the “National” Boxing
“Club.”
Ins and Outs
“Hotham”: Following a bad prece-
dent set by Marylebone some years ago
the Board of Control has started to inter-
fere with the Australian selectors’ job.
Johnson, Dwyer and Bradman have been
ordered to include no more than six Test
players against England in the match
with Australia which takes the place of
a second Test in Sydney and begins on
November 20. As it is to go four days
players will get only £l5 instead of the
£25 for Test players, with 255. a day
beer money for players from other
States, in addition to train fares and
housing in Sydney. Those selected for
this match and the Tests must be vetted.
* # * *
“Scout”: The Board of Control aims
at preventing the growing custom of
luring promising young players away
from one State to another. In future any
State desiring to pinch the rising star of
another must ask permission from the
latter. Footballers have shown us that
regulations of the kind are the easiest
things in the world to dodge, and the
practice will no doubt go merrily on;
the more so because really promising
youngsters in Queensland, Tassie and
Westralia are beginning to realise that
their only hope of reaching the highest
ranks of cricket lies in displaying their
wares in N.S.W., Victoria or S.A- teams.
$ $ 4
“Aunt Sally”: The N.S.W. selectors
who picked the teams for the Bardsley-
Gregory benefit in Sydney named
McCabe captain of the Australian team
instead of Richardson, who led the side
in South Africa. Showing a capital
spirit, McCabe has asked that Richard-
son be given his old job. Even granted
that Victor may never play Test cricket
again, to give him command of the team
he handled so successfully overseas would
be a well-deserved compliment.
* * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Board of Control
started something when it resolved to
suppress barracking at cricket matches
and called on the States to use their
police if necessary. More nonsense has
been talked of barracking in this country
than found utterance over the bodyline
barge. There is little difference between
the behavior of a Sydney “hill” crowd
at its worst and that of a North Country
mob moved to anger. Neither is half
as bad as folk who never experience
the criticism of the proletariat which
wants its money’s worth have been led to
believe by sensationalists.
* * •* *
“Gate”: Following the example set
in Brisbane some years ago it is prob-
able that reservation of seats for the
Tests and other matches against Eng-
land will be an accomplished fact in
Melbourne and Sydney. Indeed it is
practically a certainty that the M.C.C.
and the V.C.A. will agree on the sub-
ject. In Sydney the S.C.G. trust may
raise objections. However, the Rugby
League managed to get a grudging con-
sent to a few reservations when the
Englishmen were here, and the precedent
should hold good.
* * *
“Five Ways”: Queensland is greatly
perturbed to discover that Eddie Gilbert
is now not able to play Saturday cricket
in his rural retreat, and sadly lacks
bowling practice. The Government is
being asked to allow the aboriginal to
come to Brisbane for the season and
play with one of the grade clubs. The
difficulty lies in the fact that there are
no facilities for looking after Gilbert
in his non-cricketing hours, the abo.
department not being in the least likely
to allow him a free leg among the corus-
cating temptations of a great city.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The 1936 Brownlow
medal for the best and fairest player
in the V.F.L. has gone to the Fitzroy
half-back Ryan. This is the fifth time
a Maroon player has taken the medal,
Bunton having won it three times.
There is an unusual amount of discon-
tent in connection with the award. Many
contend that it is impossible for umpires
to control a hot League game and at the
same time award marks for the medal to
“Is he dead ?”
"Yairsr."
“ Cripes , does, that mean Well' ave t’ scratch him from to-morrow's meetin'?”
the three best players out of 36. The
umps. themselves want to be relieved of
the job.
Ht * * *
“Cottesloe”: This is the season when
Australian footballers bestow medals for
the best and fairest players in their ranks.!
Westralia is the latest, the recipient being
Maloney, of Claremont. A Westralian:
player originally, Maloney was seduced
to Victoria by Geelong. He played 88
matches there before making a break
for his native land.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The lamentable hiding
inflicted on the Australian Rugby team
by the All-Blacks at Dunedin seems to
have been again due to the failure of
the forwards. There has been a ten-
dency in the Sydney press to blame the
backs for crumbling in the second half,
but a long account by an eyewitness in
a Brisbane journal definitely allots the
blame to the vanguard. In the first half
this did its work well, and scores were in
Australia’s favor. In the second the
forwards let the raging Ail-Black van-
guard through on the unfortunate backs.
The finest back division in the world
cannot function unless the forwards hold
off the enemy attack long enough to let
it get going. This axiom of Rugby foot-
ball was well exemplified by the English
professionals recently in Australia, who
first mastered the opposing pack and then
dealt with the backs at their leisure. The
Springboks will do dreadful things to
the Australian front line unless it is
remodelled.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Of the seven Tests between
Australia and Maoriland in the latter
Dominion, Australia has won but one —
the 1913 meeting at Christchurch. The
38-13 hiding at Dunedin is the record
score of the All-Blacks, supplanting the
30-5 figures at Wellington in 1913. Of
the 25 Tests played in Australia and M.L.
since the series began in 1903, M.L. has
won 16, Australia seven and two have
been drawn.
$ :j: * *
The Australian Rugby side in M.L.
took another toss in its match with
Southland at Invercargill, 14-6. As usual,
the tourists held their own up to half-
time, when scores were 3-all. Southland
scored two tries to one in the second
spell, converting one and adding a
penalty goal. The Blues, who have never
yet been beaten by an Australian team,
were superior forward and back.
“Ellis Park”: The South African team
is due to. leave Cape Town on May 14,
and will play its first match against Vic-
toria in Melbourne, according to present
intentions, on June 12. Details of the
tour are far from settled. The ’Boks
want to bring 32 men instead of the
usual 29, and N.S.W., which is running
the Australian end of the show, is kick-
ing at the extra expense. It seems paltry,
more especially as half the Australian
players in M.L. have become casualties.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The disastrous tour of
M. has apparently convinced the
N. Rugby Union, which is chiefly
responsible, that its infatuation for em-
ploying Rugby League tactics has been
a mistake. A conference of coaches and
other wiseacres is to be called to con-
sider means of getting together a team
likely to make a showing against the
Springboks. It is unnecessary. All that
is needed is a return to Union methods
of forward play, with particular atten-
tion to tight packing and hard shoving
in the scrum, hunting in a pack in ruck
and loose and going down on the ball
when the opposition stages a dribbling
rush —a forgotten art in Australian
Rugby. The “shiner” forward, beloved
of the Sunday press, who hangs out for
openings and doesn’t do an ounce of
solid work, should be abolished as a
curse to his team. In foxhunting the
hound that “skirts” instead of running
shoulder to shoulder with his mates of
the pack is promptly hanged as worthless.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: As a result of diplomacy
by the M.L. Rugby Union, the Maori
footballers who declined to meet the
Springboks have thought better of it. The
Afrikanders will have to give an assur-
ance, though, that they will treat the
Maoris as Maorilanders and not as an
inferior race.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The British Foot-
ball Association has agreed to send a
team to Australia and M.L. next season.
It is to be an amateur one by present
accounts, and some are wondering at this
end how the fact that Australian players
now accept payment for playing—as on
the last tour of M.L.—will affect the
visit. The Britons stipulate that the tour
must not exceed nine weeks, four in
Australia and five in M.L., and that, in
addition to fares and housing expenses,
£750 be paid towards the cost of
assembling and equipping their side. It
only remains now for Australia and M.L.
to agree on the division of expenses and
the sharing of the takings.
The Ninetecnth Hole
. „ „. , . f
, Marino : S.A. s centenary profes-
sronal golf championship went to A. H.
Toogood, of Tassie who beat Victorias
Martin Smith by the unholy margin o
» and 8, playing golf that Sarazen might
have envied. The amateur title was won
by Ross Sawers, who downed another
South Australian in W. S. Rymill, 3 and
2. This is the eighth time Rymill, win-
ner of the title on several occasions, has
figured in the final,
* * * *
“Marino”: Sarazen should be pleased
with his S. Aus. trip, for, apart from his
devastating 10-stroke victory in the cen-
tenary open, what he would call the
mazuma was satisfactory, the purse for
first man home being £250. McMahon
and Von Nida divided £lOO for second
place, and there were other satisfactory
consolations for minor placings. From
a playing point of view South Australians


857 -ttwab horn
936 -Jee& Udemanded
m
ifii
Si
O L
pvj 0 911 Rf
—lf is VEEDOL the
world's finest Motor Oil,
and costs no more.
V2S
sadf
FORD V-8
© © ©
GREETS
ii:
1
■
Wm?.
ms&
i
IS
ill
i p;
mm
111
. with the Season's Smartest Colours
ou are cordially invited to inspect-. . .
* Ford V-8 styled for Spring. See this
beautiful car in new colors inspired by latest
fashion notes from London, Paris and New
York . . . Interiors finished in harmonising
shades. And in addition, all the fine car
features that have made Ford V-8 out-
standing for safety, performance, comfort
and economy . . . Safety Glass all round.
All-Steel closed bodies. Super Safety
mechanical brakes. Easy steering and gear
changing. Centre-poise riding comfort.
And the famous V-8 engine—the most
efficient and economical ever built by
Ford. Ford-Philco Car Radio is also avail-
able. Here is your ideal car, styled for
Spring, and designed to give you many
years of luxury motoring. Easy terms.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN
VICTORIA)
F.106.27>
did themselves proud, McMahon, Harvey,
Winser and Rymill filling four of the
first five places.
% % * *
“Sandringham”: A Victorian expert
blames Sarazen for Ferrier’s poor form
since returning to Australia. He says
that in altering his style on recent advice
of Sarazen regarding his swing the young
man has impaired his natural style and
suffered as a result in lost matches. There
is a lot in the contention. Many fine
natural cricketers and golfers are ruined
by listening to style experts. Individual-
ity counts for much in these and other
games of skill, and the coach is apt to
forget that what may have proved strong
meat in his own case may be vegetarian
diet for his pupil.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Sarazen enraged the
golfers of Mt. Gambier (S.A.) by failing
to turn up for an exhibition as per
schedule. Gene’s explanation was that he
was told that the roads from Adelaide
had been blocked by the gales and that
he could not get a ’plane. Mt. Gambier
refuses to accept the excuse. It had
made great preparations to entertain the
visitor; for example, the fence over
which Gordon didn’t jump his horse had
been heightened and patent-medicine ad-
vertisements rubbed out. All in vain.
Ex-cricketer Bill Whitty, speaking for
Mt. G., says that Gene has disgusted
everyone and that “any attempt to apolo-
gise will only be adding to the insult.”
* * * #
“Sandy Gallop”: In its annual report
the Queensland Golf Council sees itself
rich one of these days. It conceived the
idea of getting affiliated clubs to induce
their members to spar up a bob a nob as
a special contribution to the furtherance
of the game in the State. So far only
the metropolitan clubs have been asked
to put the nips in, but country clubs are
to follow suit. There are 6400 members
of clubs affiliated to the council, and the
notion should work out splendidly if
everyone throws in his bob ; but there’s
always a catch somewhere.
Racquet and Bawl
“Forest Hills”: Perry won the Ameri-
can tennis championship, Budge being
the only opponent to extend him. It was
the Briton’s third win, and he has taken
the Wimbledon title three times and has
been unbeaten in Davis Cup tussles for
four years. His great ambition is said
to be the winning of the four major
championships, American, Wimbledon,
French and Australian in the one year.
His defeat in Paris has spoiled his chance
for this season.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: A tennis ranking list
issued by London “Times” places Quist
fourth, with Perry, Von Cramm and
Budge above him in that order. Then
come Austin, Crawford, Grant, Borotra,
Allison and Boussus. It is a pretty fair
rating. The women are headed by Helen
Jacobs. Miss Jacobs has been beaten for
the American title she held for five years
by 23-year-old Alice Marble, of Cali-
fornia, who has the scalp of Dorothy
Round among other good ones in her
bag.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer’: In the golden days of
professional running there was hardly
any trick to which peds. and their
backers did not resort to block a dan-
gerous competitor. It pains me to find
that practices of the kind are not un-
known among amateurs. Lovelock, who
is to run his last race in a match with
American amateurs at Princeton Uni-
versity, told a pressman before leaving
Liverpool that he had worked out a new
method of running the race. This, how-
ever, he would keep secret except to say
that it would prevent opponents boxing
him in while a selected runner went on
to win.
* * * *
“Vernier”: .N.S.W. won the Common-
wealth rifle teams match at Adelaide
with 1825 points, S.A. and Victoria tying
for second place with 1821. Westralia
and Bananaland followed in that order.
Ranges were 300, 600, 700 and 800 yards.
Top scorer for the winners was W. FI.
Cutler, with 180.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The Commonwealth
Council of rifleshooting associations has
decided to send a team of 16 to Bisley
next year, made up of a commandant, an
adjutant, a coach and 13 shooters. N.S.W.
and Victoria may select three men apiece,
Queensland, South Australia and West-
ralia two each and Tassie one. The trip
has been made possible by a gift of
£5OOO from a private citizen —Woolcott
Forbes—-of Sydney. So far the genius
who rides on the gasbag and directs the
zephyr of Australian defence has made
no noise which suggests that his depart-
ment will assist the tourists even with
approbation.
❖ $ sic *
“Shell”: The N.S.W. Northern Rivers
people are having a spree of their
own to offset the Sydney tamasha
next year, and want the world’s sculling
championship, Pearce v. Burns, to be
rowed for on the Richmond River at
Woodburn. Everything depends on
whether Pearce will be able to accept.
That little matter of the £2OO forfeit to
the Olympic Council for the breaking of
his contract not to turn professional for
two years after the Los Angeles Olym-
piad has to be settled.
* * * %
“Splash”: N.S.W. swimming heads
woke recently to the fact that capitation
fees from affiliated club members and
affiliation fees from clubs and branch
associations are the same as they were
25 years ago when the membership was
numbered in hundreds. Costs of admini-
stration have gone up tremendously since
then, and it is only the profits—some-
times negligible—from championship and
other carnivals which have kept the State
body out of the Bankruptcy Court. It is
proposed to raise fees 50 per cent —to
Is. 6d. Not much, but swimmers, like
athletes, are slow on the pay-up.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: Two of the Ashton
brothers, just returned from a summer in
England, where they wallowed in polo, are
loud in praise of the Americans who
won the Westchester Cup. Bob Ashton
was asked to umpire several important
matches, and did so without eliciting tears
from anyone. Taking the game over
there as they saw it, the Ashtons, who
admit they learned a lot, rate the Indian
players as the world’s best. The brethren
left all their ponies behind in England
and intend to make regular shipments of
Australian nags, which are in keen
demand on the other side.


USK.
P& A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
pH Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
4YDNEH
%e •mt .at
htonthlM
A
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
September Issue Now on Sale.
THE WOOL QUESTION
WILL SHARE PRICES HOLD?
TRADING IN COMMODITY FUTURES
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.. 2f»2 Ceorse Street. -Sydney, and all State*
r ",
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
BRANDMJER’S
P
at*
PENS
nt
ra
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAPEU * C 0„ Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. E.NO
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
ports indicate an even grade of ore. A
full review of operations is leaving Papua
by the next boat.
Australia’s wheat harvest for the 1935-
36 season is estimated at 140,083,000
bushels ; 15,195,000 bushels carried over
from 1934-35 made 155,278,000 bushels
available. To September 8 wheat and
flour exports had accounted for
78,564.000 bushels; putting home con-
sumption at 48,000,000 bushels, there
was a surplus of 28,714,000 bushels
available for overseas sale at the be-
ginning of this month, worth about
£7.500.000 on current quotes.
* * *
In 1934-35 exports of pig lead from
Australia were worth an average of
£l3 2s. 6d. a ton in our currency. Last
financial year they brought in £l9 15s.
a ton. Those prices are applicable to
the financial years of both North
Broken Hill and B.H. South.
* % ❖
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of pig-iron
(50.842 tons) and ingot steel (54.086 tons)
for the four weeks to August 30 was
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary shares, where they represent
equities in industries which have their
roots in Australian welfare and progress,
offer probably the best investment now
available when discreetly bought. That
isn’t to say that the sky’s the limit so
far as price is concerned. But where the
return is reasonable and prospects are
encouraging there are aspects of these
investments that promise as much safety
of capital as can be expected in uncertain
times.
The basis of valuing anything at present
is not in gold but paper-money. We live
to a large extent on goods and services,
and equities in those things always have
value, irrespective of what inflation might
take place in paper-money following pos-
sible international disorders.
Non-rural commodity prices in Aus-
tralia have so far kept steady at a figure
not much above the low level of slump.
Returns for wool, wheat, metals and
some other staple products, on the other
hand, have revived encouragingly, and
with land industries more prosperous
benefits have spread throughout the com-
munity, which has readjusted itself to
altered circumstances. Australian manu-
facturers and distributors to-day rely on
a smaller margin of profit than hitherto.
With an Australian market enlarged by
restriction in our overseas buying power.
Commonwealth industrial activity to-day
shows great recovery.
In buying industrial ordinary shares
conditions in the particular industry have
to be considered, and the finances, man-
agement and general prospects of the co.
in view taken into account. Then the
market price and present and probable
yield. Where attractive ordinaries are
available, it should pay in some cases to
sell pref. shares and Consols in order
to acquire them.
Mandated Alluvials, N.L.
Sales (ex rights) of shares in this,
the at present most active goldmining
stock, ranged as under last week.
Much forward dealing is going on. They
are Sydney official quotes and trans-
actions. In addition, there were Mel-
bourne and Adelaide official and un-
official dealings, as well as Sydney vesti-
bule sales:
Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri.
High 335. Od. 335. 6d. 335. 6d. 295. Od. 275. 6d.
Low 30s. Od. 31s. 2d. 295. sd. 245. 9d. 245. Od.
Sales 1800 3500 5700 4250 3700 '
On Saturday a sale was made at 20s.
At the mine, miles from Port
Moresby (Papua), since March the bulk
of the operations have been carried out
on the Sapphire lease, a horseshoe-
shaped zone, where development work
over a length of 600 ft. has shown what
looks like being a continuous ore-body.
From the workings in No. 6 and No. 7
adits a width of from 25ft. to 40ft. is
suggested, averaging better than 16dwt.
In this area four shafts have penetrated
the ore-body to depths of 80ft., 30ft.,
25ft. and 20ft., with much the same
values.
No official estimate of ore reserves is
yet to hand, but in the oxidised zone
development suggests a substantial pay-
able ore-body. Work of proving the
show is still going on. It can be said at
this stage that values mentioned in re-
"It’s only because I’ve no use for them meself I’m letting you have them at
such a sacrifice.”
little below the high figure for the pre-
vious month, and well above the aver-
age for the year to May 31.
# * * *
At 795. 6d. last week, Broken Hill
Prop, shares have never been higher.
This one of the high-class stocks has
been favored here for over two years ;
and in the burst of sharemarket buoy-
ancy apparent since the beginning of
1936 it has been picked as likely to
show most stability. Earnings are
already satisfactory, and over £1,000,000
of at present unproductive capital should
later on consolidate the position.
$ * * *
Copper was firm in London again last
week, electrolytic going to £43 10s. a
ton. The producers who made the re-
striction agreement in 1935 (they repre-
sent 75 p.c. of world production) have
decided to lift outputs by about 5 p.c.
It is suggested in London that this move
is to counteract any tendency towards
an unhealthily high price, and to meet
the growing demand. In Britain for the
past year or so consumption of the red
metal has been the highest ever recorded.
Mt. Lyell’s output of electrolytic for
the 11 months to Sept. 2 was 12,071
tons. Something better than 13,000 tons
should be the figure when the books
close at the end of this month. In
1934-35 13,966 tons —a record —was
turned out. This year a water short-
age and a lower-grade ore policy have
had their influence. But mining is
cheaper, and the average price of elec-
trolytic has been around £4O sterling, as
against £33 Bs. 9d. in 1934-35. Almost
the whole output is sold in the more re-
munerative Commonwealth market.
:H * * *
South Seas copra rose to £l4 a ton
in London last week, the best price for
some time. New Guinea copra also
brought a better price at £l5 sterling.
Carpenter's, 8.-P. (South Sea), and
Morris Hedstrom should benefit.
In 1933-34 wages represented 19.5 p.c.
of the value of output by Australian fac-
tories, 20 p.c. in 1934-35. Of the value
added to raw materials, wages accounted
for 50.7 p.c. in 1934-35. Raw materials
figure at around 57 p.c. of the factory
cost, including margin for profit.
* * * *
A sale of Consolidated Press (“Tele-
graph” and “Woman’s Weekly”) 64- p.c.
prefs. took place last week at 17s. 9d.
Smith’s Newspapers prefs., following a
disappointing capital rearrangement
scheme, have been on offer at 16s. for
some time, with no buyers about. Mel-
bourne “Herald” ords. have been active
at 68s. 6d. The “Argus” prefs. are
around 245. 6d., and the preferred ords.
are at par.
* * * -1=
Adelaide Steam scrip bought at last
week’s quote of 275. 6d. should turn out
right. It is about ss. lower than the
figure of six months ago, and yields a
shade under 4.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The main earning asset —the fleet
—is in the books at a written-down
figure.
* * * *
Turnover in N. S. Wales land is well
up for the first seven months of 1936.
It aggregated £19,280,000, an increase of
£4,100,000 over the same period of 1935.
Real property was one of the last things
to show recovery from slump, and is still
making headway, while other items in our
economy are showing a steadying trend.
* * * *
Lancefield (Beria, W.A.) milled 10,542
short tons for a return of £27,877 (Aust.)
during August, making a total revenue of
£85,647 for three months. About half
of the income goes out in wages and
other expenditure, while shareholders
look forward with reasonable security
to worth-while dividends. Lancefield has
proved a real asset to the Common-
wealth.
* $ * #
Triton (Cue, W.A.) treated 7045 tons
in August for 2405 oz.—average 6.Bdwt.
In four months 92260 z. has been won.
At par (10s.) in Melbourne, the scrip
has been weak for some time. Jt appears
to be a really good mine, though capi-
talised at rather a high figure (£480,000).
A sixpenny div. (the first) was paid in
July.
* * * *
Value of Australian gold production
for the last three half-yearly periods
has been: To June, 1936, £3,644,000
(Aust.); to Dec., 1935, £3,674,000; to
June, 1935, £2,730,000. A strike in
Westralia affected the early 1935 figures,
and a somewhat reduced premium is re-
sponsible for the recent slight drop.
* * * *
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
sold more of its products in the year to
July 31, but because of cuts in the price
of cement (£4 17s. a ton now, compared
with £5 17s. a couple of years ago)
profits dropped 20 p.c. The participat-
ing prefs. and ords. all received 1 p.c.
less —the ords. and second prefs. 7 p.c.,
the first prefs. 9 p.c.
* * * *
According to the Queensland official
“Economic News,” export prices are at
pre-depression levels; interest is from
one half to a third of the rates ruling
in 1930 —Treasury bills average percen-
tage 6 p.c. in 1930 and 1.75 p.c. this
month. Building permits for £2,115,000
were issued during 1935-36, against
£1,285,000 the previous year. But still
there are 3.5 p.c. more unemployed than
there were in 1929, when the 9870
men on relief work are counted in.
In Melbourne last
week: —
Mutual Store, Ltd.,
the Flinders-street em-
porium, showed a trad-
ing profit of £3527 for
the year to July 1, the
first favorable balance
since 1930. A loss of
£12,299 on stock values,
however, was charged
to reserves. Merchan-
dise values, now down
to £100,300 (as against
£185,051 in 1930), are
said to be at bedrock.
The share capital is
almost entirely repre-
sented by freeholds, etc.
The ords. are being
sought at 6s.
Trading profit of
Waldas Shoes to June
30 was up £5OO at
£16,683; though £lB5O
was provided for de-
preciation of leases out
of the showing, an un-
changed ord. div. of 15
p.c. is recommended. An increase of £6726 in
stock values was mainly responsible for a lilt
of £5963 in the outside debt.
G. J. Coles and Co. declared an unchanged
interim div. of 24- p.c. Efforts were made to
settle the dispute on the directorate without
recourse to shareholders at the meeting called
for to-day (23rd), and differences were com-
posed at the week-end.
Mr. Lyell shares firmed to 295. lid.
Broken Hill Souths sold at record figures,
going to over £6 Bs., cum div. Norths were
slightly weaker at £9 19s.
Associated Pulp and Paper contribs. fell to
6s. 2d.
Australian Cement £1 shares at 275.
dropped more into line with the Kandos
(N.S.W.) Co.’s 16s. shares at 225. 3d.
Wellington Alluvials, up to 4s. sd. at one
stage, eased to 3s. Bd. later.
Those locals, Central Nell Gwynne
(Bendigo) and Wattle Gully (Chewton), were
among the favorites in the mining sharemarkei.
The first was steady around 435., and the
other ran up to 41s. Morning Star (Wood s
Point) is another show the market has its eye
on.


For Sale
Investors.
NEW ZEALAND PERPETUAL FORESTS.
One to five 1936 £3O blocks available for £5
deposit per block. Over three years to pay
balance of £25 per block at £2 per quarter.
Transfer arranged.
H. TURNBULL,
27 Marion Street,
Harris Park, N.S.W.
For Sale, Cheap.
BARRIER REEF TOURIST
ISLAND.
LONG ISLAND, Whitsunday Passage, 2
houses, 5 double shacks, llOv. e.l. throughout.
Fully furnished and newly erected 1935. 35ft.
auxiliary launch, 4 boats, 3 acres orchard,
citrus and tropical fruits, 5 milking cows, riding
and harness horses, 400 acres richest soil,
wonderful safe anchorage and good beach,
spendid fishing, oyster beds and coral gardens.
Close to mainland, with good mail service. All
steamers pass the door. Wonderful chance.
Particulars—
W. TRONSON,
Prosperpine, Queensland.
Public Notice.
“AIR CONDITIONING.”
HAS your plant maintained its efficiency?
ANDREW LEWIS, M.V.1.E., Consultant Air-
conditioning Engineer, is available for tests,
reports, plans, etc. Office and lab., 178 Oxford
Street, Paddington. Mail: Box 3526 RR,
G.P.0., Sydney. Phone: F 1306.
V J we GIVE
/ SERVICE
/✓"■v |
// I J
!/ K
Nh,
£
N s i\
V. V MJ
ON
Zlko
Cruise to
NEW ZEALAND
in
NOVEMBER
R.M.S. Strathnaver
leaves Sydney, November 13th
Fares :
r™ l mcT Al i )ON FROM 20 GNS.
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GNS.
Free of Exchange
FORDSON does the Work
of an 8-Horse Team
u
Because it delivers: 14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR
The power of the English Fordson in the field
is equivalent to not less than an 8-horse team.
Delivering 14H.P. at the drawbar and26H.P.
on the belt, it has ample economical power
for harvesting, ploughing, hauling, stationary
work and every job requiring cheap, efficient
power. It pays to use a Fordson. Arrange
for a demonstration on your own property.
Easy payments may be arranged under the
special Fordson finance plan.
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON FEATURES:
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT . . .
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION . . . GOV-
ERNOR CONTROL...SPECIAL AIR CLEAN-
ING SYSTEM .. . CRANKCASE VENTILA-
TION .. . “HOT-SPOT" VAPORISER .. .
CLUTCH PULLEY . . . REAR END POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
THE LOWEST PRICED TRACTOR PER HORSE POWER
Fordsoxv Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &.
Young Streets, Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
POWER PLANT LTD., 93-100
Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Victoria &. Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
21? TQR COMPANY of AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VIC.)
F116.27T.
The Important Facts
Partisanship and propaganda are
strong features of what comes to us as
“news” these days. The truth eventually
emerges, often unpleasantly. A goldmine
that has been “talked” to high levels on
the Stock Exchange won’t stay high in-
definitely if the forthcoming gold isn’t
enough to justify the price ; and if little
or no gold exists in the show a panic
sometimes follows false optimism.
Lately we have heard a lot of hollow-
sounding talk about prosperity, about
taxation relief, about our credit and
about Empire trade.
No person in his right mind should be
satisfied on these big questions—they
affect us all —with anything less than the
facts of the case. Sometimes the com-
plete facts, such as those relating to our
London balances, are officially withheld,
so we must remain not fully satisfied.
But there is some indicative evidence
even in such a case.
The Commonwealth Government has
expressed itself as “satisfied” with the
London credit position. This paper is
not ; it couldn’t be in face of the fact
that over the past eight years our exports
have failed to pay for imports and visible
interest charges to the tune of £98,000,000
sterling. Invisible exports of capital have
placed us more millions to the bad. The
Commonwealth Bank, which is charged
with the responsibility of keeping a level
head whatever happens, says London
funds are sufficient under normal, but
not under abnormal, conditions. “We
should aim at a favorable balance of
overseas payments for a number of
years with a view to building up our
London funds and maintaining them at
a higher level.”
As to our prosperity, wool brought a
satisfactory figure (up about 33 p.c.) in
1935-36, wheat was worth about 6d. a
bushel more, butter returns were about
the same (higher prices offset drought
effects), and our external income, all the
result of production— not borrowing—
rose from £l3 9s. 3d. to £l5 19s. 4d.
(stg.) a head. Though building and manu-
facturing activity has increased greatly
and continues to expand, there is small
sign of mounting costs as yet, except in
the public service. Money wages aver-
age 171 p.c. below 1928 levels and buy
slightly more. Commodity prices are on
about the same scale. Trade-union un-
employment at June 30 was down to
12.8 p.c.—it was 10.8 p.c. in 1928.
If the Canberra Government’s ill-
conceived trade-diversion policy is not
eventually taken lying down by Japan—
Japan has shown no sign of reclining
to date—our external income must be
affected this year. Certainly wheat con-
tinues to sell well; the position as re-
gards butter isn’t so good. Gold pro-
duction, an important item, should grow
somewhat.
There is one excuse for high taxa-
tion at present, and it is that the
borrowing market (fortunately) is
limited. An increasing amount of cur-
rent expenditure must be met from
revenue, and less from loans. We have
still many wasteful expenses, but while
they come largely from taxation they
are liable to attract attention more
quickly.
Empire trade is a good thing—if we
can trade without bilking our relatives.
Australia came perilously close to default
a few years back. Solvent trade, of
course, depends on sound finance ; and
if Australia is able, by a bit of ex-Empire
trade with Japan, to build up a surplus
of £10,000,000 sterling a year with which
to pay for Empire imports and interest,
the Empire should be pleased. But in
the Empire, as anywhere else, there
are petty interests striving for them-
selves as against the general good. A
top-hat, spats and an English accent
are not always symbolical of Empire co-
operation for the best —or of the Old
Country’s ultimate benefit, either.
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd., which a
year or two ago started making coarse
cotton textiles in Victoria, now uses
65,0001 b. of raw Queensland cotton a
week. It is a baby industry, at present
struggling to establish itself, but the
management is confident, subject to
reasonable protection being maintained.
* * * =!=
In 1935-36, when 406,452,0001 b. of
butter was turned out of Australian fac-
tories, 212,646,0001 b. was exported ;
193,806,0001 b. was used in the Com-
monwealth. In 1934-35 448,390,0001 b.
was made, 262,519,0001 b. was exported,
and 185,871,0001 b. was retained. The
export surplus brought 10.2 d. (Aust.) in
the latest year, B.Bd. in 1934-35. The
Australian wholesale price is 15d.
Factory butter production in the
Commonwealth for the six months to
June 30 was 190,315,0001 b., compared
with 213,230,0001 b. in the same period
of 1935. A dry winter on the N. S.
Wales North Coast was principally to
blame. Despite better prices overseas,
export values for the year 1935-36 were
£9,027,000 (Aust.), against £9,586,000 in
1934-35.
* * * *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance 10s.
shares, now officially listed in Sydney
and Melbourne, after sales at 325. 6d.
are on offer at that figure. Though the
return on last year’s (7 p.c.) div. basis
is only 2.2 p.c. at 325., on earning power
(20 p.c. in 1935-36) the showing is 6.2
p.c. The corresponding figures in the
case of the Queensland are 2.6 p.c. and
4.5 p.c. bn a 61s. basis. Bankers and
Traders’ funds, which need net only 3
p.c. in order to pay 7 p.c. on capital,
turned in enough from interest and
rents alone to pay 9.8 p.c. on capital
last year. It is a little show with big
possibilities.
* * * *
The Commonwealth and States public
debt, and its growth over the past 11
years:—
June, Public Debt. Movement.
1925 .. £963,000,000
1926 .. 1,014,000,000 +£51,000,000
1927 .. 1,043,000,000 + 29,000,000
1928 .. 1,094,000,000 + 51,000,000
1929 1,104,000,000 + 10,000,000
1930 .. 1,100,000,000 - 4,000,000
1931 .. 1,156,000,000 + 56,000,000
1932 .. 1,188,000,000 + 32,000,000
1933 .. 1,204,000,000 + 16,000,000
1934 .. 1,222,000,000 + 18,000,000
1935 .. 1,242,000,000 + 20,000,000
1936 .. 1,255,000,000 + 13,000,000
Net growth has been £292,000,000 —of
that, £67,500,000 represents the financing
of deficits on Government account from
1929-30 to 1933-34. The Commonwealth
Bank refused to finance further deficits
on Treasury bills at the end of this
period, and Governments have had to
rely more on the open market, which is
also growing reluctant to accommodate
except at considerably higher interest.
* * -t *
Mammoth (Tennant Creek) is a stock
of considerable interest in Melbourne.
There are 150,000 contribs. paid to
Is. 6d., and 112,000 fully-paids of ss.
each. The scrip is well held, with a
market of about 3s. for the contribs.
About 500 tons of ore is at grass, and
the 10-head battery is now making a trial
crushing.
* * * *
Wattle Gully (Chewton, Vic.) an-
nounced a crushing of 100 tons for 530 z.
last week, a grade of 10.6dwt. The for-
mation from which the ore was taken is
said to be 29ft. wide. The co.’s own
plant should shortly be in operation ; a
neighboring battery and plant has done
the extraction so far.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Flying Doctor”
This Australian-made opus opens in-
auspiciously. Hero, a nomad shearer
(Charles Farrell), is discovered riding on
top of a train which has just emerged
from a tunnel. With him is his faithful
hound. Rattler-jumping isn’t done like
that. It takes about half an hour to es-
tablish that the ribmad got work at a
sheep station, and fell in love with squat-
ter’s daughter (Mary Maguire). Imme-
diately after marrying her he staged a
fake suicide and vanished, to turn up
later as a goldmine owner in North
Queensland, where, in the country pubs,
bad men play poker for heavy stakes,
naughty ladies stage cabaret stunts and
a pianist is part of the furniture. A flying
doctor (James Raglan) is dragged into
the yarn by the heels, together with Jack
Clarke and Don Bradman (there are
wrestling and cricket sequences), so that
the doctor, who was expected to marry
another lady (Margaret Vyner), may later
marry the nomad’s wife and bring her
home to Yellow Creek, N.Q., where
doctor and nomad (the latter now blind)
reside. Finding that the bride he treated
so cavalierly doesn’t relish his return to
life, nomad wanders out into the wide
open spaces and conveniently dies.
It’s a dull business in which local
color is lugged in so perseveringly and
at such length that it interferes with the
development of the rigmarole that serves
as a plot. Farrell, though his voice is
a bit of a handicap, does wonders with
the very poor material given him to
play with. Miss Maguire passes muster
in a chase-me-Charlie sort of role, and
Miss Vyner is languidly unconvincing as
.a lady who contemplates divorcing an
unpleasant husband (Eric Colman). Tom
Lurich makes a brief appearance as a
very American gunman. The brightest
spot in the disappointing affair is a re-
markably neat bit of character acting by
Joe Valli as Dodger Green, who, despite
his accent, which smacks of Scotland,
looks and behaves like a dinkum Aussie.
The rest are figments of a not very strong
and certainly not very Australian imagin-
ation. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Two’s Company”
This cleverly constructed farce-comedy
from an English studio has a cast half-
American, half-English, and it light-
heartedly and impartially scores hits at
the expense of both the great Anglo-
Saxon nations. Chief fun-makers are
James Raglan, as “The Flying Doctor
howling Bradman. ( Sydney Lyceum.)
Ned Sparkes and Gordon Harker. A
chemist would say that each is a catalyst
in regard to the other, for as soon as they
come° in contact they produce fun of a
quality neither has ever attained singly.
Sparkes is attorney to a Yankee million-
aire, and in love with his daughter.
Harker is factotum to an earl, whose son
also loves millionaire’s daughter. The old
men quarrel violently, assault each other,
and have it out in court. The story
trips swiftly along from one fantastic
situation to another, with more laughs
to the minute than most recent comedies,
either English or American, have scored
in an hour. At Sydney Lyceum.
“To Mary—With Love”
Directed by John Cromwell with
great artistry this story of married life,
abounding in clever little touches of
humor and pathos, rings true at many
points, but mostly where speech, being
Mary Maguire as the squatter’s daughter
in “The Flying Doctor."
unnecessary, is eliminated, There s
nothing remarkable about the story. A
lawyer (lan Hunter) loves a girl (Myrna
Loy), but she prefers his best pal
(Warner Baxter). For 10 years he stands
by, the faithful friend, in richness and
poorness, in sickness and health. The
husband is a good fellow, but can’t stand
hard luck ; it drives him to booze and
infidelity. He loses all in the great Wall-
street crash of 1929. By 1935 he’s on
his feet again, but his wife is through ;
instructs lawyer to file a divorce suit.
He doesn’t. He talks as persuasively
and winningly as he ever did to a jury
and brings his friends together again.
An old dodge in play construction is
effectively used. At the opening lawyer
is seen picking up a lady’s glove from
the floor of his office. Looks at it
thoughtfully. Then ’phones for two
dozen roses and sits down to write a
card. Starts “To Mary” Ponders
what he will add. Then time rolls back
10 years to Mary’s wedding, and the
story of the decade is unfolded, down
to the interview at which the couple
were reconciled. They have gone and
the lawyer is still at his desk, the card
before him. He adds “with love.”
Miss Loy’s high talents have never
been more effectively exploited. Her
acting in this part holds the mirror up
to nature. Hunter, hitherto given rather
stodgy parts, also puts up a splendid
performance. Baxter, Jean Dixon, and
Claire Trevor (she’s one of the hus-
band’s weaknesses) are at their excellent
best. Previewed at Sydney State.
“Kelly the Second”
Uproarious burlesque on gangsters and
fight-promction. Charlie Chase runs a
combined pill business and hash foundry,
with Patsy Kelly as his comic assistant.
She pals up with a truck-driver,
Hibernian and pugnacious. Realising his
possibilities as a pug she appoints her-
self his manager, trainer and sponge-
holder. An hour before the gong for
his first fight she wraps him around a
20-minute meal to make up his weight.
Charlie, the sap of the trio, gets in tow
at the stadium with some boiled-shirt
gangsters whose hands move to their
inside coat pockets rhythmically. He
booms up the protege so well that they
put a big wad on him, while Charlie mis-
takenly backs the other fellow. When
the first punch lands in the region of the
recent gargantuan feed it is feet first on
a stretcher for the coming champ. The
gangsters think Charlie has double-
crossed 'em, and, delighted at his shrewd-
ness, join him and Patsy to exploit their
“find.” Follows a long run of successes
up to the championship fight, immedi-
ately before which the gangsters’ girl
friend gets the ex-truck-driver on a jag
while they back his opponent. In a riot
of fun Charlie and Patsy turn the tables
on them.
Charlie Chase gets plenty of chuckles
in the brand of apologetic comedy he
specialises in, and Patsy Kelly energeti-
cally roars her way through a made-to-
measure role. Pert Kelton and Gwinn
Williams give stout assistance to the fun-
making, and Maxie Rosenbloom looks
unhappy in the (to him) strange part of
a chopping block for a hefty mug. At
Sydney Civic.
“Moonlight Murder”
An opera co.’s leading tenor (Leo
Carrillo) is mysteriously murdered during
an open-air performance of “II Trova-
tore,” after having previously been
wounded by a crazed composer whose
opus he had refused to sing. There is
a multiplicity of suspects, all members of
the cast, and all with motives due either
to professional jealousy or private hatred
engendered by the tenor’s habit of play-
ing Don Juan between acts while dressed
for the part of Manrico. The police
chief (Robert McWade) and a young
sleuth (Chester Morris) get busy, and
after following divers misleading clues
the y.s. lands on the ingenious method
used to bump the singer off and unmasks
the not-so-villainous villain, who is, of
course, the last one on vvhom suspicion
would fall.
Humor has been made so strong that
the film almost becomes a comedy, drama
being reserved for the final sequence.
Leo Carrillo is excellently cast as the pro-
fligate and temperamental opera star,
Robert McWade gives a good character
Charles Farrell as the King of Yellow
Creek in “The Flying Doctor.”
study of a bad-tempered police head,
Chester Morris hasn’t much to do, and
Madge Evans is woodenly unimpressive.
Frank McHugh adds some easy comedy
as the victim’s valet. At Sydney Civic.
“Hellship Morgan”
Melodrammer, strongly flavored with
brine, vindicating the don’t-introduce-
your-donah-to-a-pal aphorism. A red-
blooded, big-fisted trawler captain whose
muscle toughness is exceeded only by his
softness of heart befriends a penniless but
bee-yewtiful goil, asking nothing in
return. Goil is amazed at this blue-
water freak —a sailor who doesn't care.
But the strong, silent mariner does— he
Morton Selton in “Two’s Company,” at
Sydney Lyceum.
worships her from afar. Then one day
he draws in several holes in his belt,
hitches his pants, swallows his quid and
quakingly asks her to make up the duo
necessary for conjugal bust-ups. Even
more amazed at the ease with which she
has picked up a lifetime meal-ticket, she
suppresses a joyful whoop and beats him
to the clinch. But the marriage lines
quickly form themselves into a triangle,
with the mate, a pal of the skipper s,
whom the latter had also befriended
when he was a down-and-out, as the third
side. The erring pair nobly struggle to
side-track their growing love, but it
refuses to be ditched. The showdown
comes to the accompaniment of shriek-
ing typhoons and mountainous seas. A
little heroic by-play here. Cap’n viciously
orders mate overboard to cut adrift the
scuppers or something which are floating
a hundred yards away. With a no-drop-
of-craven-blood-in-my-veins look, mate
goes overboard. Enter guilty wile. Gives
agonised shriek. Cap’n nobly hops over.
Rescue and sacrifice. Cheers from the
gallery!
Despite improbabilities, the yarn is
attractively presented, and pacy from the
fade-in. There is some clever faking in
the storm scenes. Nobody could look
or act the part of a hard-bitten skipper
of a tuna trawler better than George
Bancroft. Victor Jory fits in well as the
wife-stealing mate, and Ann Sothern
brings beauty and capability to an un-
sympathetic role. At Sydney Capitol.
“Sins of Man”
Based on the novel Job (the reference
is to the Old Testament character), by
Joseph Roth, this exercise in the domestic
sentiments is a vehicle for Jean Her-
sholt’s mobile face and extreme capacity
for woe. He is sexton, organist and
choirmaster of a Tyrolean village church
and prides himself on his bellringing.
His wife dies at the birth of his second
son. His elder lad disgusts his father by
taking to aviation, eventually becoming
a test pilot in America. The second
son is born deaf. Reconciled to the
elder the father visits America to
pave the way for the admission of the
younger son, now ten, for an operation
that will restore his hearing. No sooner
has he arrived than elder son is killed
in a crash, the Great War gets going,
the Tyrolean village is wiped out and
second son is posted among the dead
or missing. Father becomes a derelict
subsisting on infrequent odd jobs, one
of which is scrubbing the floor of a
music shop. While there he hears a
gramophone record of a symphony that
embodies the tune he used to play on the
bells. The composer, of course, is his
missing son, now a famous musician,
and in due course there is a meeting,


THE MEALS ARE
EXCELLENT
«■ jP&O
Cruise to
NEW ZEALAND
in
NOVEMBER
R.M.S. Strathnaver
leaves Sydney, November 13th
Fares:
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 GNS.
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GNS.
Free of Exchange
asdf
NO ONE HAD THE HEART TO TELL HARRY!
HERE COMES HARRY.V YES.HARKY3
NICE CHAP OLD^-'7 > A GOOD SORT/
HARRY, ISN'T rp ITS A PITY SOME-
HE ? j<p7°NE DOESNT PUT
WISE ABOUT „
~ \VALVITIS .
, THOUGH/
iJ)
HULLOA.CHAP-S:/,
I'M THINKING
ABOUT THROWING 1 }
A LITTLE PARTY
FRIDAY NIGHT
.COMING?.
WE D BELV
DELIGHTED,
HARRY-ONLY
FOR ONE
-THING ..
v_VALVITIS
a’ 1
S)
IS A
TERRIBLE COMPLAINT / THESE
PWIUPS VALVES WILL MAKE
ALL THE DIFFERENCE
TO YOUR RADIO
/+ 1 -
SO YOUVE NOTICED,
IT TOO ? ves. it's
AWFUL,ISN'T IT/
WE SHOULD GIVE
YOU RE 1
J right/ no
ONE SEEMS TO
HAVE HAD
THE HEART
POOR
THE
OLD BOY
TO
TELL
n
hint:
s ipr
A)
%
(S
//
'VALVITIS7/ and i
NEVER SUSPECTED
IT/.....THAT'S WHYIVE
BEEN LOSING MY
■ popularity// i'll
SEE THE PHILIPS
"Dealer right
AWAY/
/
For HEALTHY RADIO
REPLACE WORN-OUT VALVES With
id
PHILIPS M
VALVES
cure “Valvitis”
N.B.—“Valving” is bad
radio reception, caused
by worn out or inferior
valves^
VISIT
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
(VIA ADELAIDE)
BY SEA
By one of the large and luxuriously-appointed liners
M.V. “KANIMBLA ” M.V. “DUNTROON,”
M.V. “MANOORA,” T.S.S. “KATOOMBA,”
M.V. “WESTRALIA.”
Spacious Decks — Suites, Single and Two-berth Cabins.
Cuisine and Service Unexcelled.
Organised Sports—Music and Dancing.
FARES: Ist Class Return from Sydney, from .... £27/10/-
Ist Class Return from Melbourne, from . . £22/15/-
2nd Class Return from Sydney £2O/15/-
2nd Class Return from Melbourne £l7
Sailings from Sydney every Saturday.
Sailings from Melbourne every Tuesday.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY—
The Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd.l
Hmidart, Parker, Ltd I . . „ , , „
Mcllwraith, McEaeharn, Ltd. f At Sy<lnPy aTul Mtelbonrne.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd... j
with joy for the old man. Don Ameche
plays elder son and adult second son.
A 1 Jennings has a congenial role as a
tough who befriends the old man. Well
acted, and brightened by one or two
touches of fine drama. . At Sydney
Capitol.
Some First Nights
Dr. Malcolm Sargent’s second orches-
tral concert at the Town Hall gave
musical Sydney an experience it will long
remember. The opening was auspicious
—a clear-cut, well-balanced performance
of the “Carnival Romaine” of Berlioz,
a composer whose genius as a mixer of
instrumental color would be better
appreciated if such interpretations could
be heard more frequently. Next came
the Liszt E Flat Pianoforte Concerto,
with Beatrice Tange as soloist. The local
girl has all the qualities necessary for
concerto-playing ; —crispness in rapid pas-
“Ehrenbreitstein on the Rhine,” by J. Webb, in Anthony
Horderns’ Galleries, Sydney.
sages, an unfailing sense of rhythm and
a robust touch. The band was kept in
perfect balance with the pianist, and
Lisztian tricks and mannerisms that
usually sound a bit shopworn came forth
as fresh as paint.
The most perfect in form of Mozart’s
three greatest symphonies, the G Minor,
was given with such grace and spirit that
for the first time this critic realised what
Schubert meant when he said that in it
one could hear angels singing. Dvorak’s
“New World” symphony was followed
by applause so long sustained one won-
dered if it would ever stop. For once
in a way the demonstration was well
merited. All that Dvorak put into this
remarkable work was educed—the rush
and bustle and go-getting ; the mixture
of races; the gentle melancholy of the
negroes (the second movement is almost
all “camp-meeting”), and finally the
urgent, overwhelming purpose that drives
on a great new nation. Sargent to a
greater degree than any conductor Syd-
ney has known in the last decade estab-
lishes a nexus with his audience and
takes it up to lofty summits.
Incidentally, whether the credit be
due to Dr. Sargent’s balancing and dis-
ciplining of instrumental forces or to
the A.B.C. engineers’ increasing mastery
of the problems of orchestral transmis-
sion, radio listeners get a splendid show.
At a setting where the faintest pianis-
simo is audible only the fff of some tre-
mendous crescendo gets woolly, and in-
telligent anticipation can avert even that
drawback.
V
The sardine-crowded rows of chairs at
Sydney Town Hall were all filled on
Thursday night, when Richard Crooks
lifted up his silken voice in songs that
ranged from “Adelaide” to “Sea Fever.”
Sydney girl Pat Buchanan, violinist, was
part of the show.
•h
Dulcie Deamer’s “That by Which Men
Live” filled Bryant’s Playhouse, Sydney,
last week. The events happen in 1956 in
a basement cafe originally the crypt of
a church. The eating-house is the head-
quarters of a group of religionists in a
country where anti-atheism is treason
punishable by death. The religionists
proselytise the son of the head of the
State. The spies of the anti-religionists
have their sus-
picions regarding
the cafe and its
customers. A strong
Government sup-
porter, Sonia Hell-
man, “the Red
Virgin of Rational-
i s m,” persecutes
the suspected re-
ligionists. The con-
flict between the
forces of faith and
un-faith is compli-
cated by emotional
entangle ments.
The play moves
swiftly through a
series of conver-
sio n s, betrayals,
attachments and
partings to a
climax in which
bullets are the only arguments.
Miss Deamer is strong on plot and
theatre sense, but characters seemed too
high-flown in speech. The acting cap-
tured a fair measure of the spirit of the
play. Norman Maxwell was virile with-
out subtlety, Jules Kazoda was inclined
to be stilted, Frank McDermott gave his
part some polish, but carried detachment
too far. Hamish Hamlyn made a few
serene appearances. Gwen Henkel as the
tigerish “Virgin,” Joan Hastie as the com-
forting Faith, and Beryl Peters as the
scared Agnes did reasonably well. Beryl
Bryant produced the play, and Frank
Crago and Les Robertson made a good
job of the scenery.
*l*
Under the eye of the Marrickville
Musical Society, “Wildflower” blos-
somed in a riot of colors last week.
Arthur Bedwell and Merle Isherwood
made the most of some slapstick buf-
foonery. Nance Burniston as the fire-
spitting Nina and Don Penman, a
spoon-fed namby-pamby, were triers in
the leading roles. Best work came from
Jack Page, as doddering Luigi, and the
high-stepping ballerinas.
*l* V Y
Richard Crooks captured the sympathy
of an enormous audience at his farewell
at Melbourne Exhibition, although many
could not see him and at least one could
not hear him satisfactorily. The charm
of Handel’s “Where’er You Walk” and
Stradella’s “Per Pieta” were sufficiently
preserved for the audience to demand the
usual run of encores, which Crooks pro-
vided with his customary royal muni-
ficence, as if he had all musical literature
in his coffers. The coin he scattered was
of the usual variety, but It all has the
ring of the genuine when Crooks sings
it. The programme included an organ
recital by L. E. Warner, a pianoforte
panel by Frederick Schauwecker, Crooks’s
excellent accompanist, and four choruses
by the massed members of the Postal
Institute, the Southern Lyric and
Mitcham Societies, under conductorship
of George English. The hall did English
a worse service than it did Crooks in
shifting the accents. The most successful
ensemble was the Cesar Franck solo and
chorus, “O Lord, Most Holy,” in which
Crooks joined his tenor with the voices
of the combined choir and the violin
of Philip Cohen.
Current Artbursts
A yardstick by which the distance
pictorial art has moved in the last half-
century may be gauged is the show of
English and Continental paintings, many
of them dating from the ’sixties, ’seven-
ties and ’eighties, in Anthony Horderns
gallery, Sydney. It is just around the
corner from an alley full of Gauguin,
Van Gogh, Matisse and Monet reproduc-
tions, and the way the styles swear at
each other is almost audible.
The old-fashioned chaps hadn’t learned
that it is the first duty of an artist to
possess a grotesque soul and to express
it by painting in a grotesque manner.
Their standard of draughtsmanship
required fidelity to form and perspective
and a sense of balanced design; their
paint-craft concerned itself first with the
literal reproduction of things seen —their
texture, their correct color-value, their
reaction to various sorts of light—and
second with the spirit of the scene —not
their own spirit. It will be seen that
they were very heavily handicapped, be-
ing constrained to paint like gentlemen,
not Apaches. But their work still has
value. The world hasn’t scrapped all
the old houses and all the old furniture,
and these require as their associates pic-
tures of a commensurable craftsmanship,
which cannot be hung upside down or
sideways up without exciting astonish-
ment. In such a setting the finely-
painted landscapes of James Webb (one
is reproduced on this page), the gorgeous
sunset at sea of Julius Olsen, Fichel’s
little picture of gentleman and servant,
done like a miniature, the wool-winding
girl of J. G. Grips (1878), J. Ritchie’s
sylvan picnic or Caraud’s big canvas
depicting Louis XIV. enjoying a Racine
comedy, sit very snugly.
Less limited to Chippendale and Adam
are the water-colors, some of these, such
as Lee Hankey’s mother and child,
Charles Nixon’s sea-piece and Lamorna
Birch’s splash of rural color, by com-
paratively modern painters. In an older,
quieter style are lake sketches by C. Pear-
son, ranging in date from 1862 to 1886,
marine pieces by A. Herbert, sheep in
a cold wind by T. S. Cooper, a Venice
as romantic but more carefully drawn
than any of Turner’s by E. Pritchell, and
clean, airy architectural jottings by. Ernest
George. Hughes-Stanton is represented
by a typical powerful gloomy landscape,
H. Allingham by a bit of Dorset, Claude
Hayes by a lovely, luminous sky and
Tristam Ellis by an Indian scene that is
a model of sane technique.


Jont &° oX
o*i
i<Vp^ ce
vailS \i , situated
W^ridgePark
ir\ CX®
elev«
)l I p° si " on _ V i>fc'
bridge pa rK
b svdM^
Quick
Relief
Public Notices.
TO ARTHUR PERCIVAL STAGE, SON
OF ALBERT STACE, WHO DIED AT
WELLINGTON, IN NEW ZEALAND ON
THE 28TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1934.
AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY,
through or under him.
PURSUANT to an ORDER made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
herebv called upon to send to me on or before
the Ist day of November, 1936, your claims
to share in the estate of the abovenamed Albert
Stace, failing which such estate will be dis-
tributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 27th day of July,
1936 ' CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
A A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Ships and the sea and a tide at the full
make the pulse beat more swiftly at
Charlie Bryant’s show. Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor Philip Street opened this exhibition
(the first this artist has held in Sydney
for about 14 years) last Monday. This
Letter, however, went along on Satur-
day morning, and, stirred up by “Fresh
Breeze” and the spirited “Cowes Re-
gatta,” felt in the right mood for the
opening of the racing season by the
R.M.Y.C. The Royal Motor Yacht Club
at Point Piper was one of the most alive
bits of the harbor front throughout an
afternoon of sunshine and light breeze.
Commodore C. P. White and Mrs.
White were the hosts for the afternoon.
Able assistance was given by the C. W.
Greens and Rear-Commodore Fred
Harris and his wife. Marie Louise Doyle,
newly-returned with her parents from
foreign parts, helped to unfurl the flag,
looking nautical in navy slacks and a
cream woollen coat. Aubrey Halloran,
the club’s oldest member, squired Ursula
Pollock, a Queensland visitor. Mrs.
C. W. Green’s blue suit tuned in with
the atmosphere. The clubrooms were
gay with navy-blue and gold pennants
and flowers in blue and gold tones. A
supper dance rounded off the day’s water
pageant.
The great white lights blazed across the
street in front of the Lyceum on Friday
evening. As much of Sydney as could
squeeze itself in filled stalls and circle,
and hundreds stood at gaze while the
first-night audience streamed in to see
“The Flying Doctor.” Celebrities such
as the Deputy Mayor and Mrs. Parkes
paused in their progress to say the usual
“few words” into the microphone.
Author Robert Waldron, too, murmured
across the ether ; so did Mrs. C. Vaughan
(she was Miss Preston Stanley). Hugh
Denison wore a debonair look and a red
carnation in his buttonhole. “Flying
Doctor” James Raglan arrived with Mrs.
Raglan. She wore white fox furs with
her black and silver frocking.
Comedian Joe Valli was there ; so were
the Victor Jorys. Her black velvet coat
was collared in ermine, her frock was blue
and silver taffeta. Mary Hordern mixed
black velvet and grey fur. Joan Waddell,
all in black velvet, had a large silver
chrysanthemum on each shoulder. Sue
Stogdale’s black taffeta coat had puffed
sleeves of black taffeta poppies with
yellow centres. Mayoress Parkes wore a
tunic frock of pleated white chiffon. The
Walder lady caped her black frock in
silver fox ; Hugh Denison’s lady kept off
the draught with mink. The Ken Halls
were there ; so was Clarence Badger, who
directed “Rangle River.” Mrs. K. John-
son’s coat of moss-green velvet and
pastel chiffon frock were a nice spot of
color. Katie Towers, the only woman
of the cast who was there to make her
bow, had her arms filled with flowers.
There really were as many titles at the
last as at the first Mayoress’s party ; the
tea was as hot, the flowers as lovely. The
rooms at the Town Hall are not very
large, and the subdividing of the guest
list makes for comfort. One of the in-
teresting guests was the Herbert Mait-
land lady, just back from a visit
to Persia, where son Herbert was sur-
geon to the Anglo-Iran Oil Company.
Shiraz, Teheran, Bagdad! The names,
mixed up with reference to fields and
acres of roses in bloom and flying over
the city of HaroUn-al-Raschid, brought
a breath of the Arabian Nights . to stir
the damask curtains and blow across the
portraits of former Mayoresses.
Beside this traveller, who was slimly
alert in an olive-green suit, parchment kid
bracelets and a parchment-toned hat, sat
Mrs. George Earp. Behind them on the
mantel tall spikes of flowering peach
stretched rosily. Arum-lilies (dyed pink
and thereby gaining a sophisticated look)
and the sea-blue of lupins were worked
into the flower pattern. The hostess
wore an Arctic fox fur with her brown-
and-green silk frock. The Francis Ander-
son lady, Mrs. G. A. Scott, whose hat
toned with her beige silk suit, Mrs. H.
Feakes, whose navy frock flew a little
cape, and Joyce Parkes were others noted
among the coming and going.
The Malcolm Sargent concert that
presented Beatrice Tange in the Liszt
concerto was packed to the chandeliers.
The conductor himself led Trixie to the
piano. She was very graceful in a long
frock of silver, Grecian in its sculped
folds. On her red-gold hair she wore a
coronet of pearls. She had to take two
recalls, and a young army of attendants
rushed breathlessly back and forth with
bouquets and baskets and boxes. Elisa-
beth Rethberg and Pinza came to this
concert, Madame in buoyant black net
patterned with large turquoise spots.
Her cape was of frilled black taffeta.
The usual laurel wreath was handed to
the conductor. It’s an embarrassing
custom. These wreaths are too big for
the head, and if a man tossed them
around his neck he’d be mistaken for a
Druid or a Mayor.
Archdale Parkhill’s lady brought
daughter Brenda. Mother wore hand-
some black and silver frocking ; Brenda’s
georgettes were flower patterned. Mrs.
Walter Burfitt’s diamond earrings lit up
her amber frocking. Miss Rogers, who
had mptored down from Leura with
flowers from her garden for the pianist,
wore black lace. Noreen Dangar had
the palest pink posy on her mist-blue
laces. Melbourne’s Raymond Lambert
was there with his wife. The lovely
wrap of the evening was worn by Mrs.
A. T, Tyler. It was of velvet, long and
black, its collar plump strands of white
Arctic fox. Mrs. George Ellwood was
another musicianly - minded person
present.
Beatrice Tange, who was the pianist
in the Lizst Concerto in E Flat at the
orchestral concert conducted by Dr.
Malcolm Sargent. Luplon photo.
Sydney held musical festival last week.
Twice in the Town Hall Malcolm
Sargent led his forces in triumph through
the strong outworks of European cul-
ture. They passed through rocky defiles
bristling with machine-gun fire ; heedless
of sabres and swords hissing through the
sharp clear air they marched on. Some-
times their way took them through a
town gay with carnival; sometimes they
walked through flickering sun and
shadow, fields warm with spring on each
side of them. In other words the orches-
tra appeared to have a very gay and
happy time. Richard Crooks’s concert
at the Town Hall was the success this
tenor always achieves. Rethberg and
Pinza filled the Conservatorium to over-
flowing. Far from being musically
starved, at a conservative estimate about
15,000 of Sydney citizens last week must
have had the equivalent of a non-stop
Christmas dinner.
When Sydney heard that Mrs. W. A.
Holman had written a play called “The
Premier’s Wife” it said “Well, she ought
to know!” But if Sydney thought the
whole machinery of politics would be
laid bare it was wrong. The play is a
love drama with a political background.
It was played for the benefit of the deaf
and dumb and the blind children, and
filled David Jones’s auditorium. Friends
of the authoress and well-wishers of the
institution were there in numbers. There
was, too, a good slice of the G.P.
Carl Budden-Morris opened the even-
ing with Schumann; in the intervals
Gladys Verona, in a Watteau shepherd-
ess frock of blue and pink, sang blithely
and Mrs. A. Talbot, russet-haired and
in sweeping black velvet, played the
violin. Mrs. Holman, who made a neat
little speech at the final curtain, wore a
frock all gold lace and rose-red. About
her forehead she wore a gold band
crusted with garnets. Two small girls,
Bettie Taylor and Elaine Sharp, in white
curled wigs and pompadour frocks of
mauve and blue, handed out posies. Mrs.
Roland Foster was handsome in black
velvet. From her ears swung long and
glittering earrings.
All the fragrance of the North Shore
was in the flowers massed about the
stage. They came from the garden of
Mrs. George Bosch. Mrs. Vert wore
ermine and black lace. Mayoress Parkes
brought Miss Wedlock with her. The
Mayoress’s frock was of burgundy
chiffon patterned with large silver
flowers. Miles Franklin turned a keen
ear. Norah and Joan Crowhurst were
two attractive girls. Season the whole
with pretty sweets- and programme-sellers
dressed in rainbow hues.
This is Joyce Atkins, who at the last
City of Sydney Eisteddfod gained first
prizes in the lieder and oratorio sections,
also winning the Horace Stevens trophy.
With Marie Dawson, violinist, Joyce
gives a recital at the Con. on September
26.
Milano Garti and his troupe of Rain-
bow Follies, who have this year presented
22 concerts for charity, have helped Syd-
ney and suburban charities for the past
14 years. Each year they give four con-
certs for prisoners of Parramatta Gaol.
Last week they entertained for the bene-
fit of the Unitarian Society.
To hear sculptor Theo Cowan lecture
on her own subject a crowd of listeners
journeyed to the National Gallery on
Saturday afternoon. The loan exhibi-
tion of International Art surrounded the
speaker, who took her listeners with her
into many of the countries from which
these exhibits haye come. How the block
of marble is chiselled and changed to
the dream in the sculptor’s mind was told
in such detail by Miss Cowan that many
of her listeners felt they had the whole
process at their fingertips. John Lane
Mullins introduced the speaker, who
wore a slimly-fitting black dress with a
wide Peter Pan collar of white pique.
In the audience and later at tpa in the
kiosk were the Herbert Maitland lady,
Dr. Abbott, whose collection of coins
is noted, Judge Backhouse, the Craw-
ford Robertsons and the just-returned-
from-Italy Nelson Cox couple. They
have been nine years in Florence.
Mr. and Mrs. Roystone Davey, Mrs.
Basil Foulds, enjoying the city after her
two or three years of country life, Mrs.
Stacpoole, Mrs. B. E. Minns, and poetess
Mary Gilmore were others who
applauded the clear and informative
address.
In March, 1935, the Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney formed a
sub-branch of the R.S.S.I.L. for the N. S.
Wales members of the staff. The bank’s
general manager, C. Darvall, is the
patron, W. D. L. Dymock is president,
and there are 106 members and asso-
ciates. A. B. Commins was the secretary,
and as usual the girls rallied round and
made a great success of last week’s effort
for the funds. This was a bridge party at
the Carlton, and represented quite a bit
of currency, although the only gold
was. in the bowls of poppies and daffo-
dils that decked drawing-room and
lounge. Mrs. C. Darvall, who handed
out the prizes, allied silver fox and black
chiffon in her frocking. Mrs. Dymock s
dress was of peach satin, her coat of
amber velvet. Kingfisher-blue velvet was
worn by Mrs. Y. G. Lindeman, and
lacquer-red crepes by Mrs. Osborne.
The most spirited ball of the week
was the A.I.F. The Trocadero brimmed
with over 1100 dancers, and even the
very youngest saluted mentally the
letters A.1.F., immense and laurel-
woven. These united the Union Jack
and Australia’s flag which, with crossed
lances, formed the background for the
official enclosure. Lances gay with red
and white pennants were grouped about
the official table, which seemed to
spring from a field of daffodils, pop-
pies and marigolds, so many bowls ot
these blooms surrounded it. Purple iris
and pink azaleas bloomed on the table
itself. This ball had been organised by
a hard-working committee of which
Sam Walder’s lady was president.
Lieutenant-Governor Street and his
lady arrived to receive the debs., and
were in the procession of importants
that swept in from the vestibule down
the length of the ballroom, heralded by
tuckets of trumpets and skirl of pipes.
In the grand entry Mayoress Parkes and
her Deputy-Mayor husband stepped ; so
did the Brigadier-General Hardie couple,
Admiral Feakes and his wife, and the
Justice Milner Stephens. The Walder
lady wore her Court frock of ivory crepe
georgette. Fler flowers were mauve
orchids. Philip Street’s wife sashed her
rich gold lame with turquoise-green
velvet. The debs, were a flutter of white
organza.
One of the night’s most graceful was
Mrs. Feakes. Hydrangea blues and
silver were mingled in her frock that
added floating shoulder scarves of blue
chiffon. State president of the R.S.S.I.L.
Robb and Mrs. Robb were there (the
R.S.S.I.L. and Furlough House are the
beneficiaries from the dance). Mrs. J. L.
Hardie got an old-world effect from
her frock of black net with its full skirt
and paste ornaments. France’s Consul-
General Suzor brought daughter Jeanne.
Belgium was represented by the
Nihottes. Incidentally, Belgian Consul-
General Segaert and Mrs. Segaert, who
have been holidaying in Europe, expect
to return about the end of October.
No sooner was Mrs. Roystone Davey
able to get about after an illness that has
lasted over two years than she set about
her welfare activities. With a committee
of four others she has organised a bridge
afternoon for the benefit of the Adult
Deaf and Dumb. Elizabeth Bay House
and October 15 are the place and the
date. Mrs. Harry Dransfield, Mrs. Went-
worth Grayson, Mrs. G. B. Humphreys
and Mrs. W. Butter are the others in-
volved.
The P.E.N. Club has for once decided
to go social. To-night Lady Gowrie will
attend the club dinner at the Forum
Club. Brigadier-General and Mrs.
Anderson, the Acting-Premier and Mrs.
Bruxner are other guests.
Australia’s Jennie Brenan, mistress of
J.C.W. ballets when they were at their
zenith, has been made a member of the
Grand Council of the British National
Academy of Dancing—a modern de-
velopment with the object of putting
British dancing on the same level as that
attained in other countries. Her fellow
grand councillors are a distinguished lot;
they include Genee, Karsavina, Ninette
de Valois, Phyllis Bedells, and at
least two marchionesses. Men, too, are
on the council: Lord Horder, Sir Wil-
liam Willcox, Sir Comyns Berkley (these
three attended the centenary congress of
the B.M.A. in Melbourne ; they are in-
terested in dancing for its medical bene-
fit), Sir Landon Ronald, the Earl of
Lonsdale, Sir Archibald Weigall and
Basil Dean.


Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-H€ £V£NING
p 2 *u
is published and circulates in Launceston, and
teaches the principal towns on the North-
East, North-West and the Midlands. No
papers are published on Sundays in Tas-
mania ; therefore, advertise in “The
Evening Express” for the Sunday
. . readers.
ill information, copies anu advertising rates obtainable from
■ & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston
3. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
*udit
■bureau op>
.circulations
n_
VICTORIA PALACE
WHERE
will You stay in
MELBOURNE?
iAt the Victoria, of
course! Australia’s ■
largest, most modern
hotel. In heart of city, j
livery luxury. Un-
rivalled dining rooms j
and cafeterias. Popular
“Room Only” tariffs:
Singles, 4/- to 7/6
per day; Doubles, 8/-
to 16/-. AVrite for
free illustrated booklet
to Department 817.
201-229 Little Collins;
St., Melbourne, C.l.
LARGEST
ii'!'!!
!•■•!!!
i
m
Melbourne
chatter
It was everyone to his taste at the
Show. Sheep and cattle, women’s indus-
tries or cars, modern block and tackle
used for pulling up tree strumps, metal
workers operating within a few yards
of confectionery cooked, wrapped up
and eaten on the spot. Present also were
wrestlers of all shades from brindle to
black, fat women, five-headed calves,
fruit machines, radios which seemed to
have loudspeakers on top of windmills
and robot men doing their advertising
by clockwork. The ring events drew
crowds at all times —it’s the girls, not the
boys, who predominate among horseback
competitors and win most of the prizes.
The dogs had a lot of fuss made over
them, especially the little fellows, each
of whom had his colored curtains and
cushions to make him feel pampered
while living in a show box.
In the Agricultural Pavilion there were
preserved fruits the color of sunlight,
mountains of honey, ears of wheat proud
of being prizewinners, pigs’ heads with
green marbles for eyes and, before being
pinched into partitions, miles of saus-
ages rolled round and round like coils
of rope and colored blue, green or pork-
pink. Through the glass windows of the
freezing room could be seen monster
turkeys ready for export all titivated up
with cellophane and paper ribbons.
Squabs, looking as if they had just
emerged from a beauty parlor, were
placed in neat boxes with as much eye
for design as if they had been confec-
tionery.
Melbourne Show patrons were well
served by the broadcast intimations of
what was next on the arena programme.
But every day was one long period of
concentration for an announcer whose
tongue had many unfamiliar and very
agricultural terms to conquer. He made
a good job of it—and raised a few un-
intentional laughs as well. Early one
afternoon he advised the crowded stands
that the next event was the “maiden
chasing competition,” and barely had
time to correct it to “maiden pacing
competition” before the only woman
driver was pacing her entry round the
arena, with the entries of male drivers
falling in behind.
Nearly 400 golfers hit off at Kingston
Heath on a charity day for the Ortho-
paedic Hospital at Frankston. The fore-
cast was rain, but the weather was per-
fect. Owing to the enormous entry list
the last people were still waiting about
to start when the early birds had packed
into their cars for home.
Mrs. Sloan Morpeth and Mrs. Enos
Shaw, playing from a handicap of four,
made a new women’s foursomes record
for the course, won the best gross score
with their 78 and the handicap event
with their net 74. Another good pair of
partners were Mona MacLeod and Jean
Sinclair, Miss Sinclair’s unusual golf hat
being easily picked out by its tall white
crown and long white feather. Pat Davis,
whose Donegal tweeds were speckled
with browns and yellows and who pos
sesses a pair of merry brown eyes and a
provocative tip-tilted nose, won the long
drive with a straight hit of 213 yards.
Among the moneymaking sideshows on
the clubhouse verandah was a whizz-
barrel dip kept in motion by hope striv-
ing after champagne. Tickets marked
“Special” entitled holders to really
worth-while prizes, and there was a
“Double Special” which carried off the
bottle of fizz. Some competitors who
finished early went off to Victoria to see
the last half of the exhibition match
between Sarazen and Helen Hicks, Harry
Williams and Joan Lewis. On that day
Miss Hicks and Miss Lewis were guests
of associates’ president Mrs. J. Buick and
captain Edith Hoare for luncheon and
tea.
The most embarrassed person at the
Metropolitan during the exhibition
match between Sarazen and Helen
Hicks, Jim Ferrier and Mrs. Sloan Mor-
peth was the man whose back stopped
a ball hit by Sarazen. Apart from
the shock, the collision made the ball
rebound, and the genial American took
a six at that hole. Another gallery mis-
hap came at the 17th, where Sarazen’s
ball was trodden on. But neither he nor
Miss Hicks has any faults to find with
Australian galleries. In the U.S.A. and
England they have played in matches
where the crowds were so reckless and
unruly that each shot might have been
a death-dealing missile.
Mrs. Sarazen, who always follows her
Gene (pronounced in one syllable) round
in big matches, gave up golf some years
ago, having decided that one golfer if
of championship calibre is all a family
of two can cope with. Helen Hicks has
smiled her way into the hearts of Aus-
tralians, both sexes and all ages. On the
fairways she gets as much attention as
Sarazen, if not more.
It was an auspicious occasion at the
Palais when the main doors (so seldom
unlocked that most people think them
dummies) were open wide, and a red
carpet was laid down for Lord Gowrie,
Australia’s Chief Scout, to be ushered
into the first Boy Scout and Girl Guide
Ball that has been held in Melbourne.
In the vice-regal province special guests
walked among garden plots of ferns and
cyclamen bunched together tightly in
pots and sat at supper behind a new and
charming floral arrangement —big sheafs
of daffodils, not placed in bowls but
lying flat on the cloth, placed at inter-
vals down the length of the table.
General Chauvel’s lady, wearing blue
net strewn with penny spots, presented
four debs., Guides of the past and cub
mistresses of the present, who had the
honor of shaking hands with the Gov-
ernor-General and curtsying to Lord
and Lady Huntingfield. Mrs. Harold
Cohen’s gown was a scintillation of
black lame. Robert Best’s lady wore
black and pearls. Behind the ticket
sec.’s table was Mrs. Euan Littlejohn
wearing a short black quilted coat, its
back swinging out in a style stolen
from the gay ’nineties. Mrs. Norman
Barrett’s beautiful gown fitted her like
a silver sheath, and was accompanied by
mauve orchids and a detachable silver
scarf. The frock of pink tulle worn by
Mrs. Jimmy Dodds had a little coat
which gave the illusion of a flyaway
back. Mrs. Charles Buckley chose long
earrings and a simple brush-back coiffure,
and as a member of the cigarette com-
mittee presided over a hand-woven basket
filled with wares which made of it a
movable smokers’ stall.
Herewith the only feminine judge who
has operated in a section other than
women’s industries at the Vic. R.A.S.
.Show. Mrs. D. F. Whitwell came from
England for the Show, where she has
been judging gun-dogs, toy-dogs and
several of the more uncommon breeds.
Broothorn made the picture.
With flags draped over the beginnings
in bricks and mortar of the Women’s
College, Lady Huntingfield, with a silver
trowel in her hand and the help of work-
men with chains and pulleys, declared
the foundation stone well and truly laid.
According to custom the newspapers of
the day were packed into a metal casket
buried at the back of the foundation
stone. Kingsley Henderson, who pre-
sented the trowel to Lady Huntingfield,
squeezed in the newspapers and kept an
architectural eye on proceedings. Among
the bright hoods and mortar boards
which peppered the assemblage were
those of Dr. Jean Littlejohn. In the lee
of a pile of bricks a glimpse was
caught of Mrs. . M. M. Phillips,
whose enthusiasm has been mainly re-
sponsible for the Women’s College.
Among speakers was Mrs. L. F. Giblin,
who commenced her address by men-
tioning a day in August, 1917, when a
Women’s College was first seriously
talked about by a small group of enthu-
siasts who held a meeting in the
Biology School. Brief congratulations
were also murmured by Stanley Argyle,
Prof. Bailey and Walter Leitch, and
good-luck telegrams were read from Dr.
Georgina Sweet and Miss F. Bage.
Accompanying Lady Huntingfield was
the Hon. Anne Vanneck, wearing a
plainly-tailored black suit, her fair hair
in a soft roll right round her head. After
18 months abroad, Miss Vanneck has
grown taller, and from a schoolgirl has
emerged a very attractive young woman
of debutante age.
Here is a Maxwell-Porteous photo-
graph of Mrs. W. D. Falk, who with her
husband embarked for England recently.
Mrs. Falk was Barbara Cohen, elder
daughter of Col. and Mrs. Harold Cohen.
The six weeks she and her husband spent
in Melbourne were part of a honeymoon
trip ; they were married in England last
June. Dr. Falk obtained his doctorate
of philosophy in Germany, and is con-
tinuing to assimilate economics and phil-
osophy at New College, Oxford. Mrs.
Falk is an M.A. (Melbourne), and dis-
tinguished herself by winning the Dwight
Prize for History, a rare achievement
for a woman. She also is continuing
work at Oxford in economics and his-
tory, and hopes eventually to gain a
Ph.D.
Mrs. Dunstan, wife of the Premier,
had no hope of making her voice heard
in opening the table-setting competition
at Myer’s in aid of Melbourne hospitals.
The 18 table-setters were almost lost in
the crowd. So persuasive were auxiliary
committee-workers that few onlookers
escaped without opening purses to help
fill voting cards. One of these most
dashing young canvassers was Iris Con-
nolly (working for the Royal Melbourne
Hospital table, set by her aunt, the
Stawell lady).
The Royal Melbourne table was cool,
quiet and charming. On the dark black-
wood surface were plates and goblets
of translucent French baccarat glass, the
goblets resting on small, slim pedestals
of dull-finished chromium. The same
chromium was used for the two bowls
carrying floating islands of moss, into
which the stems of green orchids were
pricked. A large bowl, resting on a flat
salver, was filled with green fruits,
bananas, custard apples and winter pears.
Green candles and small dishes of green
and white peppermints carried on the
color scheme.
A contrast was provided by the great
branches of orchids on Mrs. George
Nicholas’s table. Flowers made of glass
and placed on a blue mirror-surface
centrepiece surrounded by navy-blue
goblets were the choice of Mrs. M. H.
Baillieu. Mrs. John Shaw had dark-red
poppies, ruby-red glassware, Sheffield
plate and tall silver candlesticks.
Mrs. Chris Cowper and Mrs. Leslie
Moran helped each other with two tables
aiding the Women’s Hospital. One was
for a luncheon suitable for the open air,
with a beach umbrella, flowered linen
cloth, pottery dog ornaments, with real
cacti tails and china so varied that an
orange plate was placed next to a blue
plate and a green cup and saucer.
Mrs. Len Buxton arrived home from
her holiday cruise to Fiji late in the
queue for choosing her table accessories,
but a gold “gazing bowl” took her fancy
for a centrepiece, and, the South Sea
Islands being still in her mind, she deco-
rated the base of each of her candle-
sticks with a lei of primroses. Added
variety was provided by Mrs. H. C.
Collingwood, who arranged her table
for a christening-party with a tiered cake,
a white lace cloth and the simplicity of
pale-pink flowers. Diners at Mrs. Harold
Reilly’s Sheriton table could have seen
their faces reflected in French mirror
mats under each plate. This was the only
table at which candles of two different
colors and two different heights were
used.
A number of husbands arrived in the
scudding rain to offer bridge-playing
wives lifts home from the afternoon party
given by Mrs. Heinrich Schrader and
Mrs. George Taylor at Mrs. Schrader’s
home in Orrong-road. So intense was the
interest in the run of the cards that it
was cocktail time before scores were
added and Mr. Schrader had arrived
home to replenish the sherry glasses of
the waiting husbands clustered round the
fire. Mrs. Schrader wore navy blue with
wide sleeves, and Mrs. Taylor’s navy
frock was made with a pleated basque
and a collar of Bermuda-blue. Mrs.
M. R. Healy in jjrown and Mrs. Alan
Michaelis (who as Jean Duncan was
well known on the other side of the foot-
lights) were among those who preferred
chatter in a quiet room to bridge in the
lounge.
Mrs. Lindsay Plante of the big brown
eyes wore a little fur cape and dark-blue
frock. Mrs. L. A. Middows wore black,
with flowers bunched under the brim of
her hat. Among medicoes’ wives present
were Mrs. Charles Adey, tall and smart
in her check tweeds, Mrs. Trinca in
Provence blue and Mrs. Harry Furnell,
who with her husband had just returned
from a successful golf week at Maffra,
in green. The Furnells played competi-
tions of 36 holes every day, and there
were parties and dances every night. In
a mixed event Mrs. Furnell and her
partner George Watt wrote a line in
Maffra clubhouse history when Mr. Watt
showed such confidence in his partner’s
play that he made a plucky bet and won
it at long odds on the joint card he and
Mrs. Furnell would produce in the after-
noon.
Once a year the West Brighton Club
invites feminine guests to share its hos-
pitality. Its night of 1936 was one
when the wind tugged hard at the mar-
quee and warm fires burned within the
clubhouse. Bald heads and thinning
pates predominated, but there was no
lack of zest in the dancing feet and vocal
cords which accompanied them. Presi-
dent Walter Leitch proposed the toast
of “the ladies,” and his own lady replied
to Charles Taylor’s toast of “the presi-
dent and his wife.”
George Wright, whom the club looks
upon as one of its finest songbirds, was
in good form during supper—it’s the
custom of members to encourage im-
promptu music with food. Dr. Jock
Cockerill burst forth with Irish airs, and
Fred Lee recited an epic about a
cafe and its turncoat proprietor. Ex-
fire chief Harry B. Lee reached the pin-
nacle of his good time from the midst
of “The Jolly Miller.” Among dance
frocks Nancy Newton’s was a piquant
surprise in black stiffened net with puffed
sleeves and arum-lilies over black lac-
quered moire and a rustle ; later in the
evening the net garment turned out to
be a detachable coat. Among younger
men present were Jack Goulding and
Ken Bagley, each accompanied by a
wife upon whose hair butterflies had
alighted. Mrs. Goulding’s frock was of-
floral taffeta, and Mrs. Bagley chose a
flowered pattern with greens predomi-
nating.


t THERE’S PLENTY
\\ OF DECK-SPACE
r • \f k I
/ /H/1!
\,z\
kiz
t \u\
/ i
/ /
ON
&
Cruise to
NEW ZEALAND
in
NOVEMBER
R.M.S. Strathnaver
leaves Sydney, November 13th
Fares:
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 SNS.
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 SNS.
Free of Exchange
SHOWS YOU
the INK
And HOLDS more of it!
asdf
'T’HIS pen shows you at any time whether
the ink is running low—just by looking at
the crystal-clear ‘ observation window. See
this great improvement for yourself at any good
Stationers or Jewellers.
Prices.— The VISOFIL (‘ Big-fill ’) Swan, 32/6.
Ladies’ Size, without clip, 27/6. LEVERLESS (‘ Quick-
fill’) Swan from 21/-. Other Swans from IS/-.
Blackbirds from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6.
All in black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE VISOFII.
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE ‘SWAN’ INK
TS?SJ
Personal and Missing Friends.
BULL, JAMES JUNIOR, formerly of Cowra,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with GEORGE PILE & CO.,
Solicitors, Blayney, immediately. II nothing
is heard to the contrary it is proposed to make
an application to the Supreme Court for leave
to swear to his death.
WILCOX.—If ALICE WILCOX, formerly
Adams, who resided in Melbourne or Barna-
wartha a number of years ago, will communi-
cate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COM-
PANY, of 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne, she
will hear something to her advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 632 of 1936.
BETWEEN HARRIET AMY DAVIS formerly
Harriet Amy Dawes Petitioner
And WILLIAM CHARLES DAVIS Re-
spondent.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES DAVIS late of 601
Murray Street Perth Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HARRIET
AMY DAVIS has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you arc
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Eleventh day of December 1936 and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of September,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
REUBEN T. J. DAWES, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, London Bank Chambers, 18-20
Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1075 of 1936.
BETWEEN CHARLES EDWARD MOREN
Petitioner
And ELLEN MARION MOREN Re-
spondent.
TO ELLEN MARION MOREN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CHARLES
EDWARD MOREN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and has
applied for a dissolution of his marriage to you
the said ELLEN MARION MOREN on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Eleventh day of De-
cember One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of September,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. R. TRACEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1368 of 1936.
BETWEEN CATHERINE MAY WATTERS
Petitioner . n
And NORMAN EDWARD WATTERS
Respondent. ,
TO NORMAN EDWARD WATTERS late
of Rockdale. „„ ¥Xir ,
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
MAY WATTERS has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Fifteenth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition tile
herein may be obtained from the undersigne
free of charge. , . th .
DATED this 18th day of September in the
year One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. I. ORMSBY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. ,
,N THE SUPREME COURT Of NtW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 342 of 1936.
BETWEEN EDITH CATHERINE DORRINO-
TON Petitioner „ .t.t/'-tvan
And ERNEST VICTOR DORRINGTON
TO DORRINGTON late
of Tamworth. cputh
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDI in
CATHERINE DORRINGTON has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court ana.
applying for a dissolution of marriage on t
grounds of desertion for three years
iust cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTIC
ihat you are required to enter an appearsn
to the said suit at the proper office of tnis
Court on or before the Fifteenth day ol De-
cember One thousand nine hundred and thirty
six and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further tune
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be hea
and determined your absence notwithstandi r-
A copy of the petition filed herein may -
obtained from the undersigned free ot cna e■ •
DATED this 18th day of, September m the
year One thousand nine hundred and that.
For the Registrar, „ Tre , n .,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. I. ORMSBY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Hundreds of cars from the goldfields
and scores from the city raised clouds of
dust on the road to the Kalgoorlie Cup.
The surprising green lawns cleared the
atmosphere on the course, and the still,
sunny day kept the red menace at bay.
Mrs Felix Cowle, in molten gold matt
crepes, shared box seats with the v.-r.
party, where James Mitchell’s lady was
wrapped in deep blue silks. Mrs. Ede s
blue foulard was coin-spotted, Mrs. W.
Coyne combined two shades of blue in
her silk ensemble and Helen Westcott
splashed reseda-green kasha cloth with
black. Muriel Lee Steere matched the
dust with her neat linen suit,
spring flowers bloomed on Conscie
Mathews’s sand crepes and Mrs. W.
Marmion laced the front of her tur-
quoise-blue matelasse with navy tubings.
Women crossed the sacred-to-men
threshold of Hannan’s Club when mem-
bers put on their annual dance. Mr.
and Mrs. Inman Way, she with golden
gladioli held before amethyst-kilted taf-
fetas, stood at the portals, where colored
lights set off on their trails around the
building. Between dance entertainments
were clock-golf on the bowling green,
gambling devices in various rooms, bars
dotted hither and thither and a continu-
ous supper in the skilfully disguised gym-
nasium. The v.-r. lady swept a train of
black taffeta and lace, Mrs. Elsey pinned
orchids on her parchment laces, and Mrs.
J. E. Manners mixed fur and gold lame
on her sea-green Chantilly. In Gwen
Cranston’s lame shone all the colors of
the rainbow, an elongated ermine stole
trailed over Mrs. Beresford Ash’s curd-
white velvets, and Mrs. Max Kott’s gold
lame glittered from high neck to wrist
and ankle.
With the Royal Show looming on the
horizon birds, beasts and craftwork are
receiving final brush-ups for exhibition.
The game section claims seniority as re-
gards the age of competitors, for here 22
entries have been made by William Cos-
grove, a nonagenarian. Although a baker
by trade, Bill’s interests lie in fowls; he
claims to be one of the exhibitors of
game in the first Sydney Show, and since
relinquishing kneading has gone back to
his old love by breeding a stock of
feathered friends at his hatchery in
Osborne Park.
The long arm of the law encircled
dainty waists when the constabulary
gathered at the Embassy for the Police
Ball. Most of the honored guests had
parties in tow, and there was a strong
complement of supporters from the legal
fraternity. Commissioner Hunter’s lady
danced in deep burgundy crepe romaine,
Mrs. E. L. Barrett’s pink satins were bro-
caded in gold, Mrs. E. Needham Jay
sported rust'-red matelasse, Mrs. Charles
Erskine draped her green satin Grecian-
wise, Gladys Needle trimmed her lilac
georgettes with coral and Marie Domin-
ish combined maize taffetas with sunset
velvet.
Commercials left off travelling to con-
gregate at the Embassy for their associ-
ation’s dance. Jack Holman twisted his
limbs in eccentric numbers, Rene Esler
and Jerry McMorrow gave exhibition
dances and there were several ballet
numbers. President J. Praed had his
other half’s red-and-blue changeant taf-
fetas at elbow, silver furbishings shim-
mered on Mrs. L. J. Bickford’s black
French crepe, Mrs. J. B. Holman
drooped lilac wings from her white
blister crepe and Daphne Vincent hung
an abbess cape over her blush-pink satins.
Greta Sellinger sunray-pleated her blue
georgettes, Mrs. L. B. Phillips covered
black cloque with gold speckles, and
Joan Wright ran silver stripes down her
cherry taffetas.
Patricia Hughes stepped her way into
citizenship at a dance given by her
mother at the Adelphi. Mrs. Jackson
was wrapped in a length of terra-cotta
matelasse, and the newly-fledged voter
was all fluffed about with white organdie.
To farewell her daughter, Mrs. Alex.
Gregg, of Adelaide, Mrs. Richard Noble
assumed sleek black suiting and put on
a tea at her home in Crawley.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
This last week or so seems to have
been all women and flowers. We have
had the Women’s Centennial Congress,
the Child Welfare Congress, the
W.C.T.U. St,ate Convention and many
others. And we’ve had the Centenary,
Floral Pageant, witnessed by at least
200,000 people. It was a veritable
triumph.
At least half the delegates to the
Women’s Congress were 70 or there-
abouts. Obviously wide interest in good
works tends to a long life.
S.A. is about to launch another star
pianist, a girl this time, Vina Barnden.
She has a striking personality, and after
10 years’ study at the Con. is recognised
by everyone as a musician whose work
warrants every encouragement.
At Kalymna, the beautiful Kent Town
home of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Holden,
the young pianist gave a brief recital of
works that ranged from Bach to Debussy.
The drawing-room was decorated with
carnations, stocks and flag-lilies. Mrs.
Holden received in bright navy wool
georgette, with a lacquer belt. Miss
Barnden chose a soft fawn lace tunic
over a sapphire-blue silk skirt.
Two thousand nurses arrived to attend
their Centennial Reunion and Pageant.
At St. Peter’s Church, Glenelg, in a
setting of pink and white double peach
blossom, Dyrpphna, the elder of the A.
M. Tolls’ pretty daughters, was wedded
to Henry, second son of the Howard
Lloyds, of St. Peters. Given away by her
father, the bride was in honey-toned
satin beaute, merging into a train, with
square-cut neck and long sleeves, the
bodice and train embroidered with tiny
seed pearls which matched her frock.
Bridesmaids Barbara Crawford and Mar-
garet Bickford were in spring-green silk
net shirred from the neck to the knees,
finished with two wide-flared flounces.
Suzanne Hamilton and Marianne Har-
grave were flower-girls in Kate Green-
away frocks, with bodices of net and
puffed sleeves of orange. Cyril Langley
was best man. At the reception held at
the residence of Mr. and Mrs. A. M.
Toll, Mrs. Toll was in black delustred
satin, with yoke and full bishop sleeves
of black silk net appliqued in black true-
lovers’ knots. Mrs. Howard Lloyd chose
a navy georgette toilette and a navy straw
hat wreathed with petunia flowers.
Pretty Mary Toll, because of an acci-
dent in the jumping section at the Royal
Show, was unable to be bridesmaid at her
sister’s wedding. She watched the pro-
ceedings from an invalid chair.
Black frocks and silver fox furs were
largely featured at a late fashionable
wedding ; the time has passed when it
was thought unlucky to wear black. A
recent bride was present in her wedding
dress —a white satin coat three-quarter-
length over a black skirt and a black
tarn beret of georgette.
A dinner held at the South Australian
Hotel celebrated the close of the Child
Welfare Congress. The guests included
delegates of all the conferences which
have been in Adelaide. The president of
the Women’s Centenary Council received
the vice-regal guests. Lady Gowrie wore
a white marocain tailored gown with
short hip-length coat, collared with sable
fur. Lady Dugan chose an orchid-mauve
chiffon toilette, with touch of petunia on
the bodice and long sash ends of the
same worn with a silver tissue coat with
ruffled collar. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
H. Dunstan) was in becoming May-wine
chiffon frock, the skirt trimmed with tiny
knife pleating on the flounces.
At this dinner Lady Gowrie and Lady
Dugan were each presented with a
specially-bound advance copy of A Book
of South Australia —Women in the First
Hundred Years. This publication, to
which a hundred women have contri-
buted, has been issued by the Women’s
Centenary Council.
The Centenary Ball of the South Aus-
tralian police passed off with great suc-
cess at the Embassy. At the official
table the Commissioner of Police (Brig.-
Gen. Leane) and Mrs. Leane entertained
the Lord Mayor (Mr. J. R. Cain), the
Base Commandant (Brigadier A. M.
Martyn) and Mrs. Martyn, and the
District Naval Officer (Commander
Symonds) and Mrs. Symonds. Mrs.
Leane was in bottle-green ring velvet,
Mrs. Martyn in black lace worn with a
mist-blue taffeta shoulder cape, Mrs.
Symonds in a black marocain toilette, the
cowl-neck studded with silver.
TASMANIA.
Close on 200 attended the A.B.C.’s at-
home in the big lounge at Hadley’s,
where cocktails were drunk in honor of
Elisabeth Rethbdrg and Ezio Pinza.
Lady Clark was present, and most of the
town’s social and artistic lights were
turned full on. Madame Rethberg's
lovely dress of violet taffetas had a
flounced fur cape over it, and she wore
a huge bunch of natural violets. Lt.-
Col. Thomas, manager of 7ZL, welcomed.
The Rethberg-Pinza concert at the
City Hall drew as big an audience as
Richard Crooks did, and radio listeners
by the score rolled up to see what the
talented singers looked like. The pro-
gramme was practically doubled in
length by encores.
Before delivering his lecture on Tas-
mania, Prof. L. F. Giblin received at
the hands of the Governor the Clive
Lord Medal. Members and guests filled
the Royal Society’s rooms and were en-
lightened by a comprehensive survey of
the Speck’s position. Evening dress
obliged the Professor to sacrifice the red
tie of old times —or can it be that his
views, in Dickens’s words, are “mellerin’,
my boy, mellerin’ ”?
Mrs. E. O. Bisdee, Melton Mowbray,
has returned from her trip to Japan ;
Mrs. Palmer, her sister, went on the trip
with her and came back for a short visit
to Lovely Banks. Mrs. De Pentheney
O’Kelly welcomed the travellers at the
Queen Mary Club.
Mrs. T. K. Robson, Launceston, has
started a good work on behalf of out-
patients at the Launceston General
Hospital. Following on lines adopted in
Melbourne, she has gathered a number of
women who help with dressings, etc.,
under the nurse in charge, thus relieving
a sometimes overworked nursing staff.
The Speck’s reps, for the women’s
contract bridge inter-State champion-
ship, to be played at Adelaide, are Mrs.
S. G. Brittain, Mrs. R. N. Butler, Mrs.
Alan Miller, and Marjorie Sale (captain).


kort Story
Qy ‘Writing
tyree (Sauce
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles,
hull details sent on application to
I. C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
Ihe Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
c n . N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Graham S i r He "ry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Hiraham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Smoot Exhaust may mean
you need new Champions/
Faulty ignition lets fuel escape from
your car in smoke. Nobody gets any
benefit from that. It is like burning
money. Get full value from the fuel you
use. Install new Champions once every
year. They save enough fuel to pay for
themselves.
m
m
>
V'
ate
3a
68
i
1
I«
ra
&
asa
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINbSOn. CANADA • • -AN EMPIRE PRODUCT •
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: At a moment when Federal
Ms.P. have received a £125 rise in
salary to £950 p.a., the Common-
wealth is calling for applications to
fill the positions of curator and matron
of the leper station at Darwin.
They will have free quarters, light, fuel
and rations while on duty. The curator
must have been trained in a medical or
charitable institution. To add to the
attraction of the position, it is pointed
out that most of the patients are abos.
And the commencing salaries will be
£294—worth about £lBO in Canberra —
for the curator, and £l9O for the matron.
Why there is need to pay people at all
for holding down a cushy job like this
is beyond me.
“The’Meteor”: No weather bureau
south of China is so antique as Bris-
bane’s. Built of galvanised-iron and
timber, it looks like a retired tool-shed,
and when the staff is working at full
force they have to put them through a
hay-press to fit them in. Somebody in
the Interior Dept., however, noticed the
condition of affairs the other day and
now the Government is to build a £16,000
palace with plenty of space for appara-
tus and a pleasant little garden in which
employees can fly balloons on a clear
horizon. The “demands of aviation”
are the main excuse. Most modern
landing grounds outside Australia have
had their own meteorological bureaux
for at least six or seven years.
**' *1- »! ; t{t
“Kaloa”: Matters are still at a dead-
lock regarding the Hides N. Guinea gold-
seeking expedition, but will probably be
settled now that Hubert Murray has
returned to Papua. A plan is to dis-
patch patrols to bring the Hides country
under control, the gold-seekers to be
allowed in afterwards when it has be-
come “safe.” Why it should be brought
under control, only gold-hunters can
tell. The natives are described as the
most civilised in New Guinea. They have
ordered gardens and agricultural settle-
ments. They are healthy, and infect or
annoy nobody. Their community is a
splendid museum of primitive customs.
They are the owners of the land. If the
Government allows their territory to be
taken from them or their habits to be
interfered with it will not be doing the
right thing. This, incidentally, was
Hides’s own view a few months ago.
* =:= * s'fi
“Home the Hunter”: Gone to final
haven, Robert Joel Cooper, buffalo-
shooter, born at Riverton (S.A.) Feb. 29,
1860, and son of a staunch Noncon-
formist pioneer, George Cooper. George
and his sons Joe and Harry, striplings of
18 and 16, were on the O.T. line in ’7B.
When farm implements failed to arrive
by boat at Port Essington, George re-
turned to Melbourne and the goldfields.
Imported water buffalo presently overran
Melville Island. E. O. Robinson got a
lease of the island for shooting, but the
blacks were too hostile. Robinson
offered a partnership to anyone who
could found a camp on Melville. Joe
and Harry Cooper took up the challenge,
and in a brush with natives Joe got a
large spear through his shoulder, but took
prisoner a young buck and returned to
Port Essington. After teaching the boy
to speak “mainland,” they again set off
for the island, and from then on pros-
pered. Harry died about 1910, and Joe
brought his brother’s body to Darwin
in an open boat. Joe’s main camp was
on Apsley Strait, about 40 miles from
Darwin. Joe stood well over 6ft., was
quiet and unassuming, strong and virile.
Of late years he lived retired in Darwin,
crippled with rheumatism, but he never
missed a football match. His son Reuben
was a topnotcher with the ball, like his
father, who was an all-round athlete.
“X.N.”: Wireless isn't always a
blessing, as a Brisbane shopkeeper found
out the other day when he broadcast the
news of an impending lunch-hour sale.
Argus-eared union officials were listening
“ Cood-oh NOW, ma. Bit o' grease makes ALL the difference!"
in, and hurriedly descended on the mer-
chant, to discover him giving his shop-
girls an early meal in preparation for
the midday scrum. So they haled him
before the beak and had him fined £1
and costs for a breach of the award.
This pioneering effort opens up delight-
ful possibilities of adding to union staffs.
* * * *
“Bris.”: Brisbane is going dry—on the
public if not the public-house side.
Years ago Government departments,
municipal councils and semi-Govern-
mcntal institutions kept up a tradition
of hospitality to visitors, but those days
are gone. This sad fact is borne in upon
pressmen who have to go the rounds.
The old Water Board used to be appro-
priately wet, but the board and 20 other
local authorities were merged in the
Greater Brisbane Council, which later
went dry, an example followed by the
Hospitals Board. Now the Fire Brigades
Board remains the one oasis in the dusty
desert of a pressman's life in Brisbane
to remind him that there was a day
when the Premier’s office used to hand
out cigars regularly, and often refresh-
ment.
4* * * *
“Zedo”: Nature is a strange jade.
Before a reverend gentleman gathered his
flock at Grafton (N.S.W.) to hold “a
service of humiliation, acknowledgment
of sin and prayer for rain,” the skies
opened and the humble-hearted wor-
shippers were compelled to wade
through puddles to make their suppli-
cation. They had different luck from
that of a prayer meeting which assembled
somewhat sheepishly at Camooweal in
the early days cfuring one of the biggest
of old-man droughts. A well-meaning
padre having sent round a letter stick to
say that he desired to offer a supplica-
tion for rain, the district population
politely left their avocations and hied
them to the township. There they dis-
covered a pack team bound to break
another kind of drought on the BarkJy,
where a race meeting was to be held. As
next Christmas was only seven months
or so off it was decided to celebrate
there and then to save time later on. So
when the pastor arrived there was no
drought—that is, except for the good
man himself, whose diet was rain, not
rum.
“Australia Jane’s’ 7 Budget
Since the Alt' Huybers gave Tasma,
their Redcliffe home, as a holiday house
for bush youngsters, the chief need is
for cash to keep the place up—it will be
known as the Leslie Wilson Home. Mrs.
A. E. Moore called a meeting to raise
funds, and there’s a varied list of enter-
tainments looming to help the good work
on.
We are in the throes of Music Week,
which opened with a popular concert in
the City Hall. The Queensland Band
Association, the Musical Association,
eisteddfod and other choirs performed.
Lena Hammond’s Girls’ Choir was
greeted with a storm of applause. The
girls wore pink evening frocks, and the
conductress was frocked in black velvet,
with a sequined cape. A huge basket
of daffodils, carnations and roses was
handed up to her, a tribute from her
choir members.
A white bride, a bevy of bridesmaids
frocked in snowdrifts of chiffon and a
cathedral banked with masses of snowy
arums were features of the wedding of
Constance Nelson-Watson, only daughter
of the E. W. Nelson-Watsons, of Nang-
wee, to Rex Murphy, youngest son of
the late Peter and Mrs. Murphy, of
Glostermin, Hamilton. With her frock
of ripplewave satin, the bride wore a
train of Brussels lace which Ida and
Gwen Nelson-Watson, her cousins,
brought from Europe. Mrs. Theo
Cooper (Texas) was matron of honor,
and the ’maids were Sheila Watson (Oak
Park), Eileen Russell (Jimbour), Mary
McCay (Darling Downs) and Lenore
Fihelly, niece of the ’groom. Sholto
Douglas was best man, and Henry Horst-
mann, Theo Cooper and Gordon Green-
wood (Ilfracombe) were groomsmen. The
reception was at Rowe’s, and the bride’s
father and her aunt, Mrs. Guiletmot, of
Toowoomba, received.
Pictured aids to beauty, the homely
but hygienic toothbrush and other odd-
ments decorated the Trocadero for the
12th Annual Pharmacy Ball. F. C.
Bennett, treasurer of the committee, and
Mrs. Bennett were official host and
hostess, and about 300 dancers took the
floor.
Captain, officers and cadets of the
Durham entertained their Brisbane
friends at a dance aboard. Captain H. L.
Upton received, aided by Mrs. F. T.
Renny, who wore delphinium-blue d>
lustred crepe.
There were 14 debs, at the Sherwood
Catholic Ball, and the committee saw
to it that all the lasses wore trained
frocks of white lace and net over satin.
Mrs. E. E. Bowden was matron of
honor, and Mrs. Guy Keid presented the
hostesses —Mrs. Bowden, Mrs. F. C. Curr,
Mrs. Chas. Hodnett and Mrs. V. Hall
with baskets of flowers tied with green
and purple to match the decorative
scheme. She also had bouquets for the
debs. Archbishop Duhig was there, with
Rev. Dr. English.
Peggy Richards’s wedding to Dr.
Norman Martin will take place on Oct.
21 at St. John’s Cathedral. Joyce Davies.
Alison Nelson, Noel Stephens and Eliza-
beth Luxton will be bridesmaids. ' Eliza-
beth is Peggy’s cousin from Melbourne.
No more pleasant way of spending an
hour or two 'in the arid desert of the
usual Saturday afternoon could be had
than visiting the annual wildflower show
of the Naturalists’ Club at the Albert Hall.
In the section in which wildflowers grown
in Brisbane gardens were displayed, there
were brown scented boronia and even
three blooms of Sturt’s desert pea —not
quite so colorful as you find them in
S.A., but gay enough. Burnett (S.A.)
sent along a collection of S. African wild-
flowers which included queer, prehis-
toric things and some colorful ericas.
Richard Crooks sang to capacity
houses at all three concerts, even the
stage being packed for the last. It was
a stifling night, and all electric fans had
to be shut off on account of the row
they made —they sound more like busy
harvesting machines than fans. But no-
body went home, and perspiring men
and women were just as anxious for
more at the end as they were early in
the piece.


psBjH
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
>'.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and .Launch Radio,
.Mullard Radio Valves.
>1
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/—. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves;
6—volt Battery, 6/—; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Ho’lders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
■J ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
rasf/
1936 A.V.C.
PENTAGKID SIX.
£9/7/6.
RADIO NEWS
SHORT-WAVE COILS.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Users of home-built T.R.F. and re-
generative detector types of short-wave
receivers cannot secure maximum satis-
faction unless careful attention is paid to
the coils. It may be noticed when using
plug-in coils that one particular station
covered by the overlap in two sets of
coils is received best at the low end of
the range of the larger coils. This is
because the inductance-to-capacity ratio
is more favorable to a greater voltage
being developed across the coil. Where
a certain resonant point is reached in a
coil-and-condenser circuit connected
across the input to a valve, the amount
of C. (capacity) in the circuit determines
the voltage which will influence the grid.
It is wise to design coils so that they
will tune the most wanted bands at the
low-capacity end of the scale. A “high
C.” circuit is admittedly more stable, but
normal care exercised in keeping wiring
and shielding rigid will ensure best results
from the “low C.” tuning circuit.
Turning the reaction knob in receivers
having capacity control of reaction often
makes a large variation in tuning.
Though it is best to adopt some such
method of control as the electron-
coupled detector with a cathode tapping
on the tuning coil, it is possible to remedy
matters considerably by attention to coil
design.
With the use of screen-grid detectors,
there is a tendency to make up for any
variations in coils by adjustment of screen
potential. It is better to take more
trouble with coils before resorting to too
frequent use of the screen control. A
large reaction coil spaced well away from
the tuning coil gives the worst possible
amount of frequency shift. Use the
smallest number of turns possible,
coupled as closely to the tuned circuit
as smooth reaction will allow.
With a given grid coil, the coverage is
materially altered with different reaction
windings, and a small coil closely coupled
has the effect of moving the range up
the wave-band. A station formerly tuned
in at 10 degrees may have shifted down
to three or five degrees. However, since
the frequency shift is greatly reduced by
the use of a smaller coil for reaction the
main object is attained.
Under fixed reaction conditions (wind-
ings and control condenser capacity re-
maining the same) the apparent shift is
greater when a low C. circuit is in use.
The seeming difference, however, is only
brought about by the magnifying or
bandspreading characteristics of the low
C. circuit.
Aerial and (in the case of S.G. stages)
plate coils can materially affect the effi-
ciency of a receiver, and attention shouU
be paid to them also. In each case the
exact reverse of the rule laid down foi
reaction windings applies: The larger the
coil the better.
Where the detector is fed directly from
the aerial without any R.F. stage, aerial
damping is an important factor, and it
is often necessary to waste a lot of signal
energy in order that the detector may
oscillate when required and with a mini-
mum of “dead spots.” Use a large coil
spaced away from the grid winding rather
than a small one closely coupled. In no
instance, however, should the aerial coil
exceed three-quarters of the grid wind-
ing.
Plate coils, since R.F. amplifiers nowa-
days are invariably screen-grid valves, can
never on short wave-lengths present any-
thing approaching the optimum load for
such valves. Sensitivity and selectivity
can best be obtained by using the largest
possible plate winding spaced only as far
from the grid winding as is necessary for
selectivity.
Remember a receiver is only as good
as its coils.
R. H. A.
Short-wave Progress.
There is a marked difference between
present-day short-wave tuners and those
used a few years ago. This is the
tuning unit of the latest Hammarlund
amateur-professional receiver, of Ameri-
can design. The unit includes main and
bandspread tuning condensers with dial
assemblies, the wave-change switch and
aerial coupling, and R.F. and H.F.
oscillator coil assemblies. Only eight
leads connect from the unit to a receiver
chassis assembly.
What’s What in Radio.
“Radiola Notes,” published for dealers
by A.W.A., refers in the current issue to
the record of the Marconi Co. in Eng-
land. It is just 40 years since Marconi
filed his first application for a patent on
his wireless invention. This was the
now-famous coherer, connected to earth,
and used with an. elevated aerial. Nearly
800 patents have since been granted to
Marconi and his companies.
;ic * * ' *
“Scanner” : If the latest press photo-
graphs are genuine there appears to be,
no room for doubt that the 8.8. C. is
ready to give excellent service to “tele-
viewers.” A picture of two girls watch-
ing a motor-car race scene, on the
screen of the latest receiver, is as crisp
and clear in definition as anyone could
desire. Prophecies that the public will
not accept or will soon tire of television
seem to be nonsense in view of such
achievements.
sj: A' ❖ ' #
The French Foreign Legion is making
the life of the legionnaire brighter.
Headquarters at Sidi-Bel-Abbes now has
broadcast receivers installed in barracks
to occupy the leisure hours of the troops.
To suit the diverse nationalities pro-
grammes are taken nightly from various
European stations.
* * * *
The U.S.A. coastguard service has
adopted a system of aviation broadcasts
to warn villages and towns of approach-
ing hurricanes. Radio apparatus fitted
to aeroplanes includes a public-address
amplifier with loudspeakers projecting
sound over a wide area.
* * * *
Akin to radio are “death-ray” inven-
tions, the latest of which, as reported
from California, U.S.A., is a kind of
electric-gun, discharging a ray that will
destroy gas balloons, shatter metal, and
cause casualties among troops at a con-
siderable distance. Shaped like a tele-
scope and mounted on a motor-truck, it
is actuated by a voltage pressure of
four million.
Casual Comment.
“Querex”: The inauguration of the
Flying Doctor wireless station at Wynd-
ham (W.A.) should do much- to speed
up inland communication in the Kim-
berleys for medical purposes. It is not
surprising that at last the important
meat port of the
north-west should be-
come a short-wave
radio H.Q. The ser-
vice recalls the radio
tests undertaken for
the meat co. in 1930
by Don B. Knock,
who found that rela-
tively short - range
communication inland
from the works posi-
tion, screened off by
the Bastion Moun-
tain, was extremely
difficult on the higher
frequencies, but that
communication direct
with Sydney, using
the amateur 20-metre
channel, was consis-
tent, and easily
effected with low
power. He was ham-
pered by the necessity
(in those days) for
erecting his Station in
the works area, where
the electrical power
generators played
havoc with reception
of anything but strong
signals. The twisted
pair doublet receiving aerial reduced the
noise level to a workable level, and this
was probably the first instance of the
application of a noise-reducing aerial of
this type in Australia.
* =i= * *
“Sparko”: The new Flying Doctor
radio-telephone stations recently opened
at Wyndham, W.A., Port Hedland and
other positions are functioning well. On
the evening of 15/9/’36 they could be
heard in a Sydney suburb, working
between each other, at R 7. Position is
just outside the low-frequency limit of
the amateur 40-metre band.
This is not an example of the latest receiver,
but a reminder of bygone days. This was the
kind of receiver used to introduce the early
screen-grid valves, one of which is shown in
detail. These were “double-enders” of the
5625 type. The 5625 was the first of all screen-
grid valves, and was developed by Capt.
Round, of the Marconi Co.
“Brassex”: The 8.8.C.’s announcement
of the appointment of C. W. Goyder as
chief engineer of All-India Radio
should interest old-time amateurs.
Goyder, the original G2SZ, was the first
Englishman to communicate with these
parts on short waves. That was in 1924.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
With conditions steadily approaching
those of summer, a notable feature is
the reappearance of the 19-metre sta-
tions much earlier than in former years.
There is a drop in signal strength in
this band after 11 p.m., but after mid-
night signals are even stronger than
usual for some hours.
The new Czechoslovakian station in
Prague was testing previously on
19.689 m., but is now on 25.51 m. and
very close to DJD. The hours at present
are 7 p.m., 8 p.m. and 2 a.m., S.M.T.,
but as from 16/9/’36 there will be special
transmissions for U.S.A. from noon to
2 p.m., S.M.T. Signal strength is very
good in the early morning, and quality
much improved, but a good receiver is
needed to separate DJD and Prague.
8.8. C. No. 1 transmission is good till
5.45 p.m. Rome, in the 25-metre band,
is strong at 7 a.m., being then much
better than at midnight.
RNE has been very good late at
night, but poor in the morning sessions.
One of the rectifier panels of the new A.W.A. 60kw.
transmitter for 2YA Wellington, N.Z.
It has been interesting to hear Musco-
vite accounts of the Spanish trouble in
comparison with those from Italy or
Germany.
The 31-metre band is yet only fair,
but the D.E.I. stations on 27, 29
and 30 metres are very much stronger.
Japan is also using 30 metres in addi-
tion to 27 metres, both wave-lengths
showing good strength.
Stations above 31 metres are hardly
worth attention, with the exception
of RVIS on 70.2 m. This station
overrides the noise level quite well.
Good music is frequent, and an English
session is being run again.
In 1929 the English session
from RVIS was a regular
feature, one of the few at that
time from foreign stations.
WBXK has reappeared in
the 19-metre band at mid-
night, but is still erratic in
strength. PCJ has also im-
proved, and is now as strong
as the Germans, but there is
still no sign of PHI. A num-
ber of ’phone stations in the
15-metre band are audible at
good strength in the daytime.
Numerous amateur "phone
stations are heard from all
over the world, including
U.S.A., England, France.
India, Ireland and Holland,
with many others in languages
unknown to this writer.
A P.I. operator winds up
by stating he is from “Manila,
the land of sugarcane, honey
and pretty girls.”
An American mentioned
that he was using one kilo-
watt, a power most of our
B stations do not reach by a long way.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
... , A Mm
Maorfianders have; dug. up a g cI id J
tor DX ultra-s.w. tests an g P


1
AT
ADIOTRON
%
ft
The Importance of Good Valves
The most vital part of a broadcast receiver is its valve equipment. No Radio
can give good performance without good valves. Radiotrons conform to
the world's highest standards in design, material, construction and perform-
ance. See that your set is equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
RADIOTRONS
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
rAdvertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Ltd.]
transmitter sending instantaneous spark
impulses toward the moon. Over-
seas stations are asked to listen on
schedule for signals reflected from the
moon. The idea may sound fantastic,
but it is quite possible that something
of the kind may some day open up a
new era in long-distance u.s.w. communi-
cation. Two stations, ZL3GD and
Membership of short-wave listener clubs and associations is
attracting large numbers of radio enthusiasts all over the
world. Pictured here is the listening-post of Mr. E.
Schmeichel, of Chicago, U.S.A. Evidence that the operator
uses his receiver to good purpose is shown by the trophies
and array of cards.
ZL3XB, are trying at present to reach
Australia with special directive aerials
on five metres.
In the midst of plenty of 20-metre
'phone DX, sundry moans are heard
from local mike-hounds about VKs
“daring to work in the American ’phone
band.” For the benefit of those who
have forgotten or have never read the
regulations, there is no ’phone band re-
striction in Australia. Any station is
entitled to work between 14,000 kc. and
14,400 kc. so long as it observes the
“clean signal” rulings. It is too late
to wail about C.W. QRM on American
’phones. A proposal to define ’phone
channels (suggested by the R.l.’s De-
partment) was balloted on over a year
ago and rejected. Hence the aftermath
of recent regulation amendments. Un-
fortunately, amateur radio is not so far
up the ladder rungs in importance in
VK circles as so many YSs fondly
imagine. It is more a case of kindly
tolerance to “keep the kids amused.”
N.S.W. chief R.I. Bill Crawford has
inaugurated what the writer considers
to be the most important contest of all
—for the best all-round amateur operator.
That means telegraphic competency.
An annual Morse code re-examination
for retention of license would be salutary.
VK2NO.
Technical Data on Sirufer.
Cores Used in Aerial Circuit.
Sirufer cross-type Haspelkern cores
were used in the tests here described,
which were conducted by Duco Con-
denser Pty., Ltd. A standard four-five
receiver, . employing honeycomb-type
aerial and oscillator coils (wound on
kin. former), gave the following perform-
ance figures:
Gain between aerial terminal and grid
of mixer valve: 1500 kc., 2.6; IOOOkc.,
3.9; 600 kc., 4.3. Overall selectivity,
60 k.c. at 10 to the fourth power
(lOOOkc.); image ratio, 250. These
figures are typical of average better
class four-five receivers at present
on the market. The overall selectivity
is probably better than the average re-
ceiver employing air-core I.F. trans-
formers.
Experiments were conducted on the
Boonton “Q” meter to evolve a .coil
suitable for the broadcast-band cover-
age. “Q” of air-core aerial coil, honey-
comb wound in two pies on Tin.
former, is: 1500 kc., 55; IOOOkc., 75;
600 kc., 90. “Q” of Sirufer core, using
9-41 Litz, in three sections each of 26
turns, total 78 turns, is: 1500 kc., 125;
IOOOkc., 185 ; 600 kc., 220.
To date the most efficient method of
coupling the primary
of the aerial coil to
the secondary (tak-
ing- into considera-
tion cost and per-
formance) would
appear to be a
honeycomb air-core
primary spaced
approximately
3-16 in. from the
Sirufer core.
Using a high-
impedance aerial pri-
mary, 250 turns on
kin. former, spaced
3-16 in. from the
Sirufer core, the fol-
lowing results were
obtained on substi-
tuting for th e
original aerial coil in
the aforementioned
receiver: : —G a i n,
from aerial terminal to grid of mixer
valve: 1500 kc„ 15; IOOOkc., 15; 600 kc.,
15 ; representing an improvement over
the air-core coil of approximately four
to six times. The overall selectivity was
46ke. wide at 10 to the fourth power
(lOOOkc.) and image ratio was 1000,
representing an improvement in overall
selectivity of 14kc. and a four-to-one gain
in image-frequency ratio.
In the course of these tests aerial stage
gains of 25 to 30 were obtained by em-
ploying a medium inductance aerial coil
of approximately 80 microhenries and a
small capacity of five micro-microfarads.
These high stage gain figures were ob-
tained with a reduction in image-fre-
quency ratio and a slight loss in over-
all selectivity.
Latest in the Trade.
The New Ever-Ready Factory,
„ ~ ~ ,
The Eyer-Ready Co. (Aust.) has com-
plete<4 P.l 01 a Riodern dry battery
factory in Sydney. The concrete build-
ing will be of three storeys, covering
80,000 square feet of floor space. Cost
G f building and equipment will total
over £50,000. The expansion is necessi-
tated by the growing demand for both
ra dio batteries and torch Refills.
a point of interest will be the con-
sideration given to employees. Hot and
co | d showers will
be available, also a
fully-equipped hos-
pital and canteens
capable of seating
and supplying 300
at a time.
Much has been
heard of the new
vibrator sets sup-
planting radio dry
batteries ; Ever-
Ready principals
consider that the
B-batteryless phase
introduced by
vibrator units will
follow the same
trend as overseas,
and that within two
years the radio
trade will have
reverted entirely to the use of B batteries
for country sets.
❖ * * *
Philips Radio have released a new series
of two-volt battery valves to supersede
the previous popular types of last year.
The pin bases of some have been changed
for the “P” base, with silver side con-
tacts, and in the valves there are note-
worthy improvements. For instance,
the KFI R.F. pentode, taking two volts
at .18 ampere on the filament, is replaced
by the KF4, which takes two volts at
.065 ampere. The comparative types of
the old and the new are as follows:
Class. Old Type No. New Type No.
Octode KK2 KK2 (P base)
R.F. Pentode
(variable Mu) .. KF2 KF3
R.F. Pentode .. KFI KF4
Duo-Diode .... KB2
Duo-Diode-Triode. KBCI KBCI (P base)
Power Pentode .. C243N KL4
Driver (Class B).. 8217 KC3
Twin Triodc (Class B) 8240 KDDI
The types KF3 and KF4 are the first
valves of this class to be specially de-
signed for short-wave reception. Owing
in some measure to the “P” base, the
inter-electrode capacities of these types
are very small, and, although the filament
consumption is only one quarter that
of previous types, the effective amplifica-
tion is high.
Radio VK4DO.
VK4DO (Harold L. Hobler, Rock-
hampton) was one of the first licensed
stations in Queensland; it transmitted
240-metre broadcasts first in 1923, and
was the first licensed receiving station
in Rockhampton after the war. From
1923 it has never been long off the air;
of late years the log shows an entry for
practically every day. The station has
progressed from 140 volts on a UV2O2
in a self-excited Meissner and Hartley
to a four-stage rack crystal control with
47, 46, 46 and 210 in the final on 20
metres, where the station is practically
always situated. VK4DO has never
used greater input than 45 watts, always
being on low power. The four-stage
crystal rig has switching for change to 40
metres by cutting out a 46 doubler. The
transmitter is followed by a 1936 model
SX9 Super Skyrider with crystal, recently
obtained from Chicago. Next is a Gross
monitor, which keeps a check on fre-
quency and signal; then a faithful Super
Wasp, which served well for several years
until the Super Skyrider arrived.
A map of the world in front of the
operator is mounted on a sheet of porous
Celotex with a small pinned flag to show
exact location and call of any station
marked. It takes only a glance to see
just where QSOS have been made.
Crystal control has been in just over a
year. Prior to that the station went
through all the old phases, trying to get
a good note ; supplies, including the old
slop jar rectifiers, Amrad “S” tubes and
an Esco generator giving 500 volts.
In 1926 VK4DO was the winner of the
Queensland Jewell miles-per-watt con-
test, communicating with Hawaii, Cali-
fornia and Oregon (U.S.A.), using 140
volts on a UV2O2. In this year the station
was also successful for Queensland in the
Trans-Pacific tests conducted by the
A.R.R.L. and W.I.A. In 1925 the station
transmitted 200-metre ’phone to New
Zealand (2000 miles), using 160 volts on
a receiving valve as a transmitter,
Despite the low input of 40 watts five
continents have been worked in an hour,
Africa being the stumbling-block for
WAC at the lime. The station is now
WAC several times, also WBE, and the
O.M. is an original foundation member
G f the Rag Chewers’ Club. Fifty-four
countries have been worked in all con-
tinents. Some 2400 contacts have been
made using a 202 or 210. The aerial is
a single wire with small counterpoise, in
° lr.pat.Vm RS rpnnrtcfmm F..rnn P
a P°°* location. K 8 reports from Europe
and Eastern U.S.A. seem to indicate it
is a good radiator.
VK4DO holds a first-class wireless
operator’s certificate, but amateur radio
is his hobby, and he is keener to-day
than when he started over 13 years ago.
When not at his station he manages a
theatre.
Ultra-shorts and the Future.
U.S.A. Federal Communications Com-
mission has concluded an inquiry into
the allocation of frequencies, among
them the ultra-highs, up to and including
200 megacycles. Main reason for this
has been the demand by broadcasting
organisations for attention to channels
for television. In the scramble, the ama-
teur 56mc. (five-metre) band was threat-
ened, but owing to the case put by
A.R.R.L., represented mainly by Aus-
tralian Ross A. Hull, amateur radio re-
tains both 5- and 2k-metre bands,
“QST” quotes a long list of new and
interesting services to be launched on
u.-s.-ws. Chief is television. Not only
are ultra-shorts on the eve of being used
for television broadcasting, but naval,
military and air force services are find-
ing new uses for them. Facsimile ser-
vices, or “pictures by radio,” can make
good use of u.-s.-ws., and in U.S.A. the
morning newspaper by radio is already
mooted. Police, fire departments and
certain Government services will have
allocations.
Some indication of the scope is shown
by the applications before the U.S. Com-
mission ; they included air and marine
navigation aids, air and marine telephony
geophysical devices,
point-to-point public telephony, radio
typewriters for business and press, loco-
motive-to-guard-coach communication
and mobile pack station communication
between reporter and editor’s office. As
“QST” puts it, “frequency requests for
new services have been limited only by
man’s fertility in thinking up new uses
for radio.” In Australia the demand is
only in the embryo stage, but will surely
increase.
D. B. K.
The Q. and A. Column.
Advice wanted on the purchase of a set for
use in F.C.T. Must be of good lone, capable
of receiving inter-State stations, and price in
the vicinity of £20.—468.
It is not the policy of this Page to recom-
mend any particular make of receiver. Watch
Bulletin advertisements and reviews.
* * # *
(1) My Little Twin transformer-coupled re-
ceiver performs fairly well, but there appears
to be instability when using the coil taking in
20-metre amateurs. Placing the finger on the
grid terminal of the audio transformer stabilises
the set, and stations are heard well. When
finger is removed volume drops, and station
is hard to find again. What is wrong ? (2)
/ have some “haywire” coils, with various
gauges of wire, and these seem to'give excel-
lent results, one particularly around 3LR. Why
should they be better than coils wound on low-
loss formers ? —471.
(1) Sounds like 100 much feedback, caused
by too much coupling between grid and plate
coils. This would give difficult tuning, and the
reaction condenser would have the effect of
detuning the grid circuit considerably. Some
experimenting with relationship of coils is
always worth while in small sets of this type.
Use as few turns as possible in the plate coil,
and couple it as loosely as possible to the grid
coil without failure of oscillation. (2) Evi-
dently the inductive relationship is better in
these coils.


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.” _
Inquiries should be set out briefly*
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
«SILVER
EDGE-
TRADE %7 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic »
"Only the KiSMf Turn accur ate
ns
m
m
Am
&m
m
if-'-
lii a recent independent test of tyre gauges one out of
53 was found to be completely accurate. That one was
the KISMET And little wonder, tor behind the production
of everv KISMET gauge is an experience as old as the
motor-car industry. The utmost care in manufacture, and
frequent testing, produce a tyre gauge which is real.j
worthy of the name.
Jt (janqe is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading
iifiifs
Faultlessly finished in plated metals; with wide,
flat reading surfaces calibrated in lib. units indi-
vidually numbered. R/f .
Complete in neat, leather wallet ' ''' TT . I>
Sole Manufacturers: TtBNE
AND BROS., DTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
4;-> Hardware Street. Melbourne. C,t.
asdf
The Steering Column.
TESTING THE HEAVY DIVISION.
PERFORMANCE AND MECHANICAL DETAILS OF
FORD V8 TRUCK.
BY FRED BERRY.
THOUGH the speedometer registered but 216 miles and the
engine had not been thoroughly run in, the Ford V 8 30cwt.
truck tested recently over the “Bulletin” course gave results
that justified the popularity of this vehicle in commercial trans-
port.
The sturdy chassis, fitted with V 8 motor, compact flexible
and powerful, is designed to provide an even distribution of
load over front and rear axles, a factor which improves stability
and roadworthiness and has a good influence on tyre life and
brake maintenance.
Equipped with 6 x 20 tyres and
with a back-axle ratio of 5.83 to 1, the
truck is capable of carrying its rated
load at a high average speed with a
maximum of approximately 60 m.p.h.
Of greater importance is the fact that
the engine develops a torque of 145 foot
pounds (maximum 152 foot pounds) over
a speed range of from 900 to 3100 revs,
per minute. This flat torque curve, ex-
tending over such a wide range, is a de-
sirable feature in motors for commer-
cial purposes, and explains the charac-
teristic “hanging-on” ability on steep
grades for which the V 8 truck is noted.
The V 8 90deg. L-head engine, bore
3 l-6in., stroke 3|in., has a piston
displacement of 221 cub. in. R.A.C.
rating is 30 h.p., but with aluminium
head 90 b.h.p. is developed at 3800
r.p.m. (with cast-iron head 80 b.h.p.).
Cylinders, exhaust passages and crank-
case are cast integral, of alloy iron, the
cylinders being offset 3-16 in. to reduce
piston thrust. Cylinder walls are honed
to a mirror finish. Pistons are of light-
weight cast alloy, with two compression
rings and one oil-retaining ring above
the piston pin. Con. rods are steel forg-
ings of I section with full floating
babbitt-lined bearings.
Crankshaft is of special Ford cast alloy
steel, counterbalanced, with 90deg.
throws, and runs on three replaceable
main bearings. Crankpins are 2in. in
diameter, and six counterweights are cast
Heavy-duty jour-speed gearbox and clutch assembly, showing
robust construction of all moving parts.
integral with the shaft to reduce vibra-
tion. Camshaft runs in three steel-
backed babbitt-lined bearings, and is
driven from the crankshaft through
bakelite gears. Valves, non-adjustable
type, are of chrome-nickel steel, the ex-
The VS ford 30cwt. truck with full pay load, as tested over the “Bulletin” course.
haust valve seats being of heat-resisting
tungsten steel. Push rods are hollow, of
cast-alloy iron.
Lubrication is full pressure, by gear-
type pump, to all main, con.-rod and
camshaft bearings, the normal oil pres-
sure being 301 b. per sq. in. Cooling
water is circulated round the cylinders
by two pumps
driven by a V-
section flexible belt,
and located in the
cylinder head.
Temperature i s
regulated by ther-
mostats. Carburet-
tor is of Stromberg
dual down-draught
type, with air
cleaner and
silencer. Intake
manifolds for both
banks of cylinders
and hot spot are of
aluminium, cast in-
tegral with the
valve-chamber cover. Exhaust passages
pass through the cylinder blocks to the
manifolds on the outer side of the bank.
Fuel tank (15ga1.) is mounted beneath the
front seat. Fuel pump is of mechanical
diaphragm type, driven from the cam-
shaft.
The electrical system is six volt. The
generator is of heavy-duty type, air-
cooled, with third-brush regulation of
output. Starter motor operates Bendix
drive, the gear ratio to flywheel ring
being 11.2 to 1, turning the motor at
100 r.p.m. when starting. Ignition is by
coil and battery. The distributor, driven
from the camshaft, is of single unit type,
fully waterproofed. Ignition timing is
fully automatic, with a vacuum-con-
trolled governor. The ignition switch is
located on the steering column and
serves to lock the steering wheel when
in the “off” position. Firing order
1 -5-4-8-6-3-7-2. The unit-constructed
engine and gearbox is suspended in the
frame at three points on compressed
rubber mountings. Transmission is
through an 1 lin. ventilated type dry
single-plate clutch, in which plate pres-
sure is increased by centrifugal force, to
a sturdy four-speeds-and-reverse selec-
tive sliding gearbox, with central ball
change-speed lever. Pinions are straight
cut, gear ratios being: Top, direct ; third,
1.69 to 1 ; second, 3.09 to 1 ; first, 6.4
to 1 ; reverse, 7.82 to 1.
The bearings in the gearbox are either
of ball or roller type, excepting the re-
verse idler, which is bronze-bushed.
Final drive is through a torque tube
with radius rods of tapered steel tubing,
with forged steel end fittings welded in
position. Maximum angularity of final
drive is 3deg. unloaded and straight line
with full load.
Front coupling of drive shaft is a bi-
partible universal joint, with needle
roller-mounted trunnions ; rear coupling
is an enclosed needle-roller universal
joint. Rear axle is of full floating type,
with spiral-bevelled crown wheel and
pinion, with straddle-mounted pinion
and thrust plate back of ring gear.
Axle shafts are of high tensile carbon-
manganese steel. Rear-axle housing
is of manganese steel tubing and
differential housing of malleable iron.
Gear reductions through axle to road
wheels are: High, 5.83 to 1 ; third, 9.85
to 1; second, 18.01 to 1; first, 37.31 to
1 ; reverse, 45.59 to 1. Alternative ratios
of 6.66 to 1 and 5.14 to 1 with corre-
sponding ratios on intermediate gears are
available.
Maximum road clearance
with 6 x 20 tyres is 7 15-16 in.,
with 32 x 6 tyres, 8 5-Bin.
Track with single rear wheels
is 57|in. ; with dual rear
wheels, 65in.
Frame is of high carbon
steel with side members 7in.
deep and 2fin. wide. Five
welded steel cross members
are fitted. Length of frame
with 13 lin. wheelbase is
192.6 in. ; with 157 in. w.b.,
21 Sin.
Front axle, of reverse
Elliott type, drop forged, of
1-beam section, is of man-
ganese steel with tapered
roller bearings on spindle
thrust and wheels. Front
springs are transverse canti-
lever, mounted 4in. ahead of
axle, with radius rods to
maintain axle alignment.
Number of leaves is 14, the
load deflection being lin. per
10001 b. Rear springs are
semi-elliptic, free shackled at
both ends. Auxiliary springs
(helpers) are fitted which are
designed to come into opera-
tion after rear springs have
been depressed approximately 2in.
Service brakes, four-wheel, mechani-
cally operated, are of the two-shoe in-
Clutch slip under heavy load or at high
speed is minimised by fitting three
weighted throw-out levers to the assembly.


THE WHOLE WORLD
asdf
Pins Its Faith for Unfailing Service
In .the triumphant successes that
mark to-day’s progress in travel, in
industry, in sport, Bosch equipment
and accessories have played an
important part.
Bosch supplies
electrical and
Diesel equipment
for aeroplanes,
airships and
motor vehicles:
magnetos, spark
K 7
0
ears
plugs, starters, generators, injection
pumpv>, nozzles, glow-plugs, lubrica-
tors, brakes, windscreen wipers,
horns, lamps and ignition coils.
In the building industry, in electrical
and mechanical workshops, Bosch
universal and high-frequency tools
are daily performing heavy tasks and
saving huge amounts of money.
Sport, too, sees Bosch triumphant.
Victorious racing drivers the world
over use Bosch magnetos and spark
plugs. . .The motor cycle and even
the humble push bicycle share the
advantages of Bosch lighting sets.
BOSCH
EQUIPMENT & ACCESSORIES
Sole Australian Distributors:
PYROX PTY. LTD.
97 Palmer Street, Sydney (’Phone: FL49SO, 4812), and
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne (’Phone: F 4157).
Bosch Service Stations under expert management
in every State.
September, 1936, is the 50th Anniversary of the original
Bosch factory, founded by the now world-famous Robert
Bosch.
1886 SAW A BEGINNER ALONE BUT GAME.
1936 ACCLAIMS A WINNER OF WORLD-WIDE FAME.
ternal expanding type. Brake drums are
Min. diameter. Rear drums are of cast
iron, integral with a steel disc having five
cooling ribs. Front drums are of same
design with three cooling ribs. Brake
Permanently set
v alve assembly
used in V8 motor.
Push rods and
valve stems are so
hard and large that
adjustme nt is
seldom required.
clearance is effected
by single external
adjustment at each
wheel. Handbrake
operates a. self-
energising internal
expanding hand in
each rear drum,
with adjustment on
brake rods.
Worm-and-sec-
tor type of steering
is fitted, reduction
ratio being 17 to
1. Turning circle
for short wheel-
base is 48ft. ; for
long wheelbase,
57.8 ft.
Coachwork de-
pends upon indi-
vidual require-
ments, but the
standard cab is
designed to provide
the driver with
both comfort and
safety. The wind-
screen is fitted with
dual wipers, and
may be opened by
turning a single
control.
Triple ventila-
tion is provided,
and the seat is ad-
justable for both
length and angle.
Spare wheel is car-
ried on a pressed-
steel bracket
attached to the rear
cross member.
The vehicle tested was supplied by
Hastings Deering, Ltd., metropolitan dis-
tributors, and weighed, gross, 3 tons
llcwt.; tare, 2 tons 2qr., the pay
load being 1 ton lOcwt. 2qr. Speed-
ometer reading stood at 216 miles ; the
engine was still stiff, so results would be
better after a further 1000 miles of run-
ning.
As a preliminary to performance tests
the lorry was driven round a selected
88 miles’ course to assess petrol con-
sumption.
Average speed maintained was 22.9
m.p.h. and petrol consumption averaged
18.19 m.p.g. No difficulty was experi-
enced in surmounting all main road hills
encountered in top gear.
In traffic, control of steering and mani-
pulation of the clutch and four-speed
gearbox was light and easy ; in fact, one
finds little difference between operating
the fully-laden V 8 truck and driving a
sedan of similar make.
On the level road maximum speed is
between 55 and 60 m.p.h., and a steady
speed of 40 to 45 m.p.h. can be main-
tained over give-and-take roads with
safety and comfort.
Acceleration from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top gear occupied 22 l-ssec.; in third,
11 sec.; in second, 9 l-ssec.
The car was then taken to a test hill
with a grade of 1 in 6, and starting
at the bottom at
a steady speed of
10 m.p.h. made
the climb in 13
l-ssec., using
second gear
throughout. Fac-
ing about on the
steep descent,
service brakes
stopped the
vehicle in 15ft.
from 15 m.p.h,
while the emer-
gency handbrake
from a similar
speed stopped the
truck in 30ft. —
both excellent
performances.
Climbing the
hill again the
fully-laden vehicle
was stopped on
the steepest por-
tion and restarted
smoothly without
any indications of
jerkiness, proving
a wide margin of
safety in clutch
design and trans-
mission details.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
R.E.C. (W. Maitland, N.S.W.).—(I) Please
advise whether the cars named have been re-
viewed in The Bulletin, and in what issues.
(2) Has the performance comparison chart been
published since April 8, and, if not, when can
lt m . .
(I) Dodge Di, June 17; Dc Soto Airstream
Six, Sept. 9; Morris 8/40, Jan. 1; Ford VB,
April 15; Olds. Six, Morris 12/4 and Standard
Light 12 have not yet been submitted for tests.
(2) No; within coming month.
* * ’ * *
K.W.McC. (Melbourne). — Has the ’36 Chew
Master Dc Luxe sedan been taken over your
test course ? If not. what are the performance
figures of the Cnev. Six.
No. Chev. Six figures are: Maximumi speed,
70.03 m.p.h.; petrol, —4 m.p.g.; 10 to 30, top,
0 to 30, second, sec. ;0 to 50 m.p.h,
13 _-ssec.: brakes, —lit. from _5 m.p.h.
* * * *
A.B.C. (Eumundi, Q.).—What is the correct
way to stop the wheels of my 15 -h.p. six-
cylinder car (3500 miles) wobbling ? I have
had an extra leaf put in both springs, and king
pins and steering connections are tight. Shock
absorbers keep pulling out rubber bushes and
bending link connections to the axle.
Difficult to diagnose fault in a car so new,
but it is likely front-end gear has been unduly
stressed either through severe road shock or
revolutions per minute
Torque, brake-horsepower curves and speed in gears of the
V8 Ford truck.
bumping kerbs, and only satisfactory solution
would be to put the car on a specially designed
machine capable of measuring with precision
all settings of front-end geometry.
**• * *
J.D. (Tully, Q.). — On dismantling the differ-
ential assembly of my 14 -h.p. car it was found
that two teeth had broken away from the crown
\dheel. Pinion is apparently undamaged. My
mechanic advises me to buy new crown wheel
and pinion for replacement, but I can obtain
a used crown wheel for one-fourth the price.
Is there any danger in using it ?
To be free from future back-axle trouble you
should fit a properly matched new wheel and
pinion.
* * * *
R.A. (Clare, S.A.). — My four-cylinder 25
model car has been using a quart of engine oil
'every 100 miles, and a great deal of smoke
has been coining from the crankcase breather
pipe. Since closing this outlet oil consumption
has increased but the motor seems to pull better
than before. Any suggestions ?
Obviously the cylinders need reboring and re-
fining, clearances being so great as to permit
oil to pass piston rings freely and enter the
combustion chamber. On the explosion stroke
the burned oil is blown past the piston rings
and appears at the breather outlet. Sealing this
will cause crankcase pressure and force greater
quantities of oil past the rings into the combus-
tion chamber, with a consequent increase in oil
consumption.
* * * *
R.P. (Barcaldine, Q.). — As high speed is
essential on my long country trips, I purchased
a '35 model eight-cylinder car after a demon-
stration in which the speedo. showed a top
speed of 80 m.p.h. After running in the engine
this reading was frequently bettered, but
recently, having the opportunity of testing speed
by stop-watch over a measured distance, I
found the maximum to be but 77 m.p.h.
Why ?
Firstly, because speedometers in ’35 models
are seldom accurate at speeds of over 50 m.p.h.,
the variation being as great as 15 p.c.
Secondly, tyre wear or variations of tyre pres-
sure will cause the speedo. needle to show a
much higher rate than is actually travelled.
* * * *
J.D. (Goondiwindi, Q.).—(l) My ’33 car had
new plugs fitted about 500 miles ago, but now,
when put in a tester, all start to miss from
30 lb. ? Why ? (2) I have been advised to try
named plugs, but am afraid leaded petrol will
attack the mica. Is this right ? (3) Which car
should suit me of the three named ?
(1) Provided replacements were of same type
as original equipment, which has stood up for
three years, it is obvious that those recently
fitted have been damaged, have incorrect
gap or are from a faulty batch, to break down
in such a short distance. Check with nearest
agent. (2) It is advisable to use plugs specified
by manufacturers of engine, but there is no
risk of damaging electrode insulation when
using leaded fuels. (3) Either 1 or 3, then 2.
* * : *
R.P.W. (Broken Hill, N.S.W.). — What are
the merits of the two delivery trucks named,
and which would be best for my work
(, indicated) ?
Both appear to be giving equally good re-
sults, and there is little difference in mechanical
details. Either should suit your purposes.--


IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
"THE MAIL”
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE— News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE— A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON— F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House,. Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which,
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure. : ~
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100 % of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of "The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use "The Evening Post
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post brings
' immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
t ,
For particulars-and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
The Long White cloud
Fighting Maori Apathy
In recent years, the native birth-rate
in Maoriland has been twice as high as
that of the European population, but the
native death-rate is also twice that of the
whites.
In Waikato the position is worse.
There, according to the health officer,
for every white child that dies in its first
year three Maori babes pass out. And
tuberculosis, particularly that-of the res-
piratory system, claims ten Maoris to one
white, while typhoid fever is 36 times as
deadly to the Maori.
Dr. Weston A. Price, the Ohio
(U.S.A.) dental research officer,; attri-
butes Maori degeneration to the modern
energy foods consumed at the expense
of sea and dairy products. He found
Maori faces becoming narrower and
longer, and he noticed less resistance to
degenerative diseases. .
The mounting native death-rate is the
responsibility of the M.L. people, and
the help of Maori elders should be en-
listed in a real attempt to banish the
tribal apathy that so frequently hinders
Maori co-operation with white officers
working in the interests of native health.
Some <of Mr. . Savage’s £3,500,000 for
national housing might well be used to
improve Maori settlements.
Deer Follow the Rabbit
N.S.W. people seem to find the depre-
dations of deer in their National Park
mildly amusing. Deer were introduced
into Maoriland for the fun of stalking
them, but their capers have long ceased
to be a joke.
Damage to watershed forests in the
South Island, and in the Tararua Ranges
north of Wellington, prompted the De-
partment for Internal Affairs to remove
protection and introduce a tail bonus in
1921. Herds still increased. Soil-holding
and rock-gripping native plants began to
disappear, and complaints were heard
from station-owners that deer were leav-
ing higher plateaux with the first fall of
snow for stock pastures below. In 1930
the department put its own stalkers in
the field.
Last year 32 men accounted for 23,000
deer and packed 11,000 of the skins into
their camps. Sale of those skins returned
the M.L. Government £2OOO of its 1935
grant of £6500 for deer extermination.
And the war goes on. Captain G. F.
Yerex and John Bennett, departmental
officers, plan the stalking as carefully as
a war-time campaign, and the men in
the mountains move from base to base
along encompassing lines of advance.
They are experienced bushmen and dead
shots. They obtain cheap ammunition
through the department, and, in addition
to wages, they receive Is. 7d. a pound
dry weight for. skins.
Should National Park herds penetrate
southwards to the mountainous districts
of the Illawarra, N.S.W. will face a simi-
lar problem. Park trustees could easily
adopt' a culling system to check natural
increases; they could sell stiff license
fees to city sportsmen and employ rangers
to lead them within shooting distance, as
well as guard against wanton killing if
it were still thought desirable to preserve
a small herd. Unless deer are to become
a pest, natural nerd increases should be
prevented.
The Awatea left Auckland at 5 p.m. on
Sept. 17 and before 8 a.m. on Sept. 20
was within biscuit-throw of Sydney’s
Bridge. The Union’s new liner might
itself be styled a grand new bridge across
the Tasman.
* * * *'
“Toucher”: M.L. is a great bowls
country. The bowlers’ big chief is Bill
Perry, of Wellington: legislator, bar-
rister, head of the Returned Soldiers’
Association, business director and sil-
very-voiced speaker. Bill came back
from the Great War short of his right
arm ; the bowling association’s secretary,
Lou McNabb, lost his left arm, so Bill
naturally insists that Lou is his right-
hand man. Their benevolent despotism
is acknowledged by 362 clubs with over
16,000 members. The Auckland club,
“ Doctor , taubada, please tell me of something I can put on to protect me
from the mosquitoes .”
“Clothesr."
founded by Scots in 1861, preceded by
two years Australia’s earliest —Windsor
(Melbourne); the Wellington club cele-
brates its jubilee in November.
* * # - *
“Trim”: Para Para in Maoriland’s
South Island is a far cry from Melbourne’s
industrial Collingwood, but as far back
as 1873 a company was formed in Vic-
toria to set up a furnace in Collingwood
for smelting iron ore from Para Para.
The only thing that went up in smoke
was the shareholders’ money. That Para
Para is where the Hupiri Ranges end on
Golden Bay; there is another Para Para
in the North Island —the precipitous road
running from Wanganui up the river to
Raetihi. Australian tourists frequently
use it as a short-cut from Tongariro
National Park to Wanganui and Wel-
lington.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Labor’s easy win in the last
M.L. general election has led members
of the Coalition party to suggest a
change of leadership. Adam Hamilton
has been mentioned. It was Hamilton
who helped Labor at a critical election-
eering moment by jambing an Auckland
broadcasting station which the Govern-
ment evidently believed to be disseminat-
ing too much Labor propaganda. This
behind-the-scenes interference annoyed
many northern voters, and, unless the
present Opposition boasts a shrewder
politician than Hamilton, it would do
well to stick to Forbes.
* =i= * *
“J.M.”: Melbourne has had its cen-
tenary, and Sydney is preparing for its
150th birthday. Maoriland, with its cen-
tenary still nearly four years away, pro-
vided a site for Australasia’s first
brewery. If you don’t believe me, look
up Captain Cook’s , logs and you’ll find
that the first beer brewed within sound
of the Tasman was quaffed at Dusky
Sound by Cook and his crew. It was
concocted from the leaves of the rimu
tree, and Cook logged it as spruce beer,
the rimu leaf not being unlike that of
the spruce. He mentions its value as a
preventive of scurvy. When his good
ship hurried her clean bottom out of
Dusky Sound she probably carried some
for future use.
* * * *
“F.”: Makers of Maoriland gramo-
phone records must be regarding the
Labor Government with affection. Min-
ister Semple, in his vigorous campaign
to reduce traffic accidents and hunt
drunken drivers off the highways, has
had his speeches recorded and distributed
to broadcasting stations and schools.
Labor had already hinted that policy
measures would be recorded and released
simultaneously in different cities. As a
political innovation, this should liven up
Maoriland’s second centenary celebra-
tions, for wouldn’t the radio humorist of
to-day pawn his alleged soul for record-
ings of British Parliamentary references
to Guy Fawkes and other celebrities?
% sH ♦ *
“M.P.”: The M.L. dairy-farmer is the
dog on which the Labor Government is
trying its legislative experiments. Only
his produce carries the present price
guarantee, and under the Agricultural
Workers Bill his employees are the first
to get the new conditions. Farmers sell-
ing the produce of more than 10 cows
come within the scope of this bill; and
that means nearly every settler in Tara-
naki and most of the farmers in North
Auckland, Waikato and the Manawatu.
Sheepmen, smarting under an old ac-
quaintance in the form of graduated
land tax, are wondering how much
longer they can hope to escape some of
these other Labor reforms.
* * * *
“Pip”: Australia’s inland has salt
lakes and lakes that disappear in dry
seasons. In M.L. there are two instances
of lakes existing within lakes. In the
North Island, Lake Rotorua boasts a
warm lake called Hinemoa’s Bath on
Mokoia Island; Lake Wanaka in the
South Island has a lake on Pigeon Island.
In the southern Lake Wakatipu, the water
level rises and falls as though the lake is
breathing; in the snow crater of Mt.
Ruapehu in the North Island there is a
lake containing steamy patches of hot
water.
*■•*-**
“Motu”: The military tactics of the
old Maori amused, as well as routed,
more than one British officer (B.
16/9/ ’36). When white regulars were
attacking a native stronghold in the
Tauranga district, the Maoris sent a mes-
senger across no man’s land to ask
whether the British had sufficient ammu-
nition ; if not, they - offered to lend
enough to make a decent fight of it. On
another occasion, Colonel Pratt was
attacking a high pah at Tearei, and the
troops were working uphill by means
of a zigzag trench. Logs tied together
sheltered the diggers from the Maori
marksmen above —and every morning
the troops were annoyed to find the
natives had crept down after dark and
stolen the shelter. Then, when the pah
was entered, every Maori warrior had
already disappeared over the cliff-face
behind.
* * * *
“Xo”: Nearly 40,000 Maorilanders
live in Australia. A walk in any Syd-
ney or Melbourne suburb is sufficient to
convince visitors that the exiles still think
of their homeland. Boarding-houses,
homes, shops and blocks of flats carry
Maori names. Migrants responsible for
many of these names evidently left home
without a great deal of Maori; if they
realised what some of the names adorn-
ing their notepaper meant they would feel
a trifle faint. - The Maori, like many other
native races, named geographical
features after physical characteristics of
his important men, women and legendary
figures. Place-names seem the mosl
popular with former Maorilanders when
they are seeking a Maori name for their
Australian establishment, and many
Maori Rugby Union footballers have
crossed the Tasman for a good chuckle
over some of their own names.


' v ' / \,\AjV~' j * j ~
m h+\ 1
V :
l^<
\V,
f>
f
s»
y§IF
R
v
'v
% FOOLISH
FORTIES
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that, they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age-—to a
slowing down of physical activity—to altered habits or mode of living—
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments. -
the first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or'
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
Dr.MORSES
I
wmnmmmc
MAD £ IN AUSTRALIA
tor Simple Constipation
PILLS
and Attendant Ills, .
No More Work
Roughened Hands
To keep the hands soft and white
it is essential that they should not be
wetted too frequently. Household
duties of all kinds, to say nothing of
factory work, are detrimental, and
once the hands are thoroughly
roughened it is a difficult matter to
restore the natural softness and
whiteness, and still continue work-
ing. However, with care and atten-
tion a great deal can be done to
prevent an unsightly appearance.
After any hard work they should be
well cleaned with good soap and
warm water, and when thoroughly
dried rub Mirpil well into the skin,
repeating the operation two or three
times on each occasion.
Mirpil is also soothing for Sun-
burn, Windburn, Chilblains, and
provides an excellent powder base.
Also try rubbing on soles of sore,
tired feet before retiring at night.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores or from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney; or 6 Farish Street,
Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/6 per
bottle post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscula*
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or direct from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
sc
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and Nov
Zealand should send 30 /'-.)
X
A’
el’
Qv
N> e^ e^
►v" >.. .••■••■;..■•••■';
3> •* .* •*
V»p
a" 6
f
0 11
4 «
9\
.*' .'** s®^c e X


NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS
AUSTRALIA
‘ - -4 a ■ .
: : ~~ fff
jl*
ft ’ll
'jSS.*;*!*'
I
2
tr ; ■ I-' ■
;: - j ; |
1 t -j I
, .iV |Z
r - •'* . >Sv
Wf
&
100% Australian
From the Quarry to
the Finished Product
■G^V'; f
1. Ironstone quarries—electric shovel loading 30-
ton quarry wagons at Iron Knob, Sth. Australia.
2. Wilputte Coke Ovens.
3. Blast Furnace Plant.
4. Plate Mill.
5. Merchant Mill Stock Yard—Racks containing
merchant bars and sections.
.■- ‘ '
List of Products
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
FISH PLATES
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
AND BUNKER COAL
lx.
AN INVITATION IS EXTENDED TO
CUSTOMERS TO VISIT OUR WORKS
AT NEWCASTLE
iJ
vs
He BROKEN HILL PHC2UB
MINE OWNERS SHIP OWNERS
COLLIERY PTRS. - IRON STEEL MASTERS,
gfftSt 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
