

NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
?. AUSTRALIA
.
!' $
'M
Mimtmmi
mm
m
m
Ss?S*®Sg:»
x%x
m't
X
W*M
bla m MwmmM
PLANT
m
m.
m
'" ELECTRIC SHOVEL
SSWfS
*
COAL STACftWO
BRmOE AT WORKS
LOAOnsiO 50T0N[
QUARRY WACOONS
SifeWS
/ M
\
wm
l If
OF OUR PLgET
SVII
-steE*-
r:
List of Manufactures.
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
SHEET PILING
ANGLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
“Quality Products”
All Made in Australia.
rthe BROKEN HILL
PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
Mine Owners, Ship Owners, Iron and Steel
Manufacturers and Colliery Proprietors
Offices:
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH and LONDON
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonpo'rt (Tas.)> Broken Hill (N.S.'W.)
The Bulletin
Oil from Australian Coal ( Page 46)
VoL 57.—N0. 2958.
Wednesday, October 21, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
QU!
iXSltf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HER® AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Tree
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System■ of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ■
My Address
S.B. 436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who wjll supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a norn de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of thg Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
LIBRARY
READERS
Old chained books
were often inscribed
with the anathema:
“Cursed be he who
shall steal or tear
out the leaves or in any way injure this
book.”
Richard de Bury, Bishop of Durham,
says in Philobihlon: •
There are also certain thieves who enor-
mously dismember books by cutting off the
side margins for letter paper, leaving only
the letters or text, or the fly-leaves put in
for the preservation of the book, which
they take away for various uses and abuses,
which sort of sacrilege ought to be pro-
hibited under a threat of anathema.
There was a friend of mine who had
some library experience but in an un-
professional way, and was therefore not
obliged to suffer fools gladly for business
purposes. He was indeed the least servile
of men. On one occasion a pert young
subscriber asked for something good to
read, and the librarian indicated a first-
rate novel by a first-rate writer. The
young lady accepted his recommendation,
but returned the next day and threw the
book petulantly on the desk. “I didn’t
like that at all,” she exclaimed. “I
didn’t say you’d like it,” my friend re-
torted. “I said it was a good book.”
There are men with boys’ minds who
read a “Western” story every night and
accuse the librarian of allowing his
library to get behind the times if, reading
at this rate, they fail to get a new book
every time they come into the place.
“Mystery” readers are the same. Be-
lieving most mystery stories are sheer
rubbish it has bewildered me when the
fans begin discriminating among the rub-
bish. Evidently there is good rubbish and
bad rubbish.
There are folk who blame the librarian
for not remembering for them what they
have read. This, in fact, is one of the
most difficult things the librarian must
face. A man will rush in at closing-time
on a wet and dismal night, take a book
and rush home, settle himself comfort-
ably in his armchair before the fire for
a comfortable read and then, after a page,
or two, find that he has read the book
before.
Next morning the librarian gets it. I
have been reading for 40 years and have
never read a book twice by mistake. It
is only when books are used as a dope
that such mistakes are made.
The readers of “Westerns,” “mys-
teries” and crime stories are mostly, but,
of course, not by any means exclusively,
men. There is one charming and very
beautiful lady who devours mysteries
and detests love-stories —because she has
had too many love affairs of her own.
I never have the courage to say how
readily I understand that such should be
the case. But —to escape from true love
by following imaginary murders! What
a strange evasion! In general, when a
lady says she dislikes love-stories the
librarian is put on his mettle, but he
usually finds that it is not “love” stories
but squash novels that are objected to.
Very few novels manage to avoid “love”
in some form or another, but the most
avidly-read kind of love-story is the
squash novel. Some girls read two novels
of this kind in a day and complain that
their favorite authors are too long in
bringing out the next book. They treat
all suggestions with suspicion, and high-
brow, dialect, first-person novels and col-
lections of short stories —even written by
their favorites—are anathema!
It is a matter for surprise that this
aversion from first-person novels should
be so marked. An unfortunate writer of
my acquaintance wrote a novel in the
first person that was also in dialect. I
have tried to give it a run, but the public
will not have it. The aversion spreads
to the men also, and both sexes have
curious ways of expressing what they
mean. Some call them “I books” ; “I
can't bear those told-by-himself things” ;
“Oh, no, I couldn’t read that—it’s in the
T.” When one recollects that Esmond ,
Treasure Island, David Copperfield and
a good proportion of the greatest novels
in the language are “I books” the dislike
the form evokes is surely amazing. It
is so genuine, instinctive, impulsive that
it is worth examining at length at some
time or another.
In any event novelists who seek popu-
larity with the real public—that is, the
uncritical devourer of reading—must
avoid the first person. That is axiomatic,
the result of experience with all sorts of
readers, male and female, intelligent and
not so intelligent,
The quickest readers are often those
with the narrowest tastes. When a
lady says she “likes them spicy but not
sloppy” the range is again reduced, and
the expert librarian (if there be such)
must be tried to the extreme. For although
it can be generally assumed that “sexy”
books have a certain appeal for young
and old, cultured and uncultured alike,
we must learn that there are degrees and
kinds of “sexiness” which, although they
may be the proper domain of the physi-
ologist and psychologist, are sometimes
supposed by subscribers to be well within
the apprehension of the librarian.
Folk get different things out of the
same book, and the job is to find out
what these things are. An accident of
title or size of type may make or mar
a book, and it is as hard for an author
to lose a reputation as it is for him to
make it. It would seem that some
authors shamelessly admit this, while
others painstakingly pursue their course
of producing the same thing with slight
differences all their writing lives. These,
also, are among the successful ones —
successful, that is, from the library point
of view.
So much for the general readers who
form the vital centre of a popular
library. There are others. I would say
that a true novel-reader reads for ex-
perience, not for dope, and there are
quite a number of them. Serious readers
accept all that is convincingly portrayed ;
this, after all, is the whole point of writ-
ing. They do not continually demand
in their reading the portrayal of a life
remote and as different as possible from
the life they live. (“A book for mother,
please—one with a good, strong male
character.” One imagines that father
would have been a greater success if he
had had a bit more of the caveman
about him.)
Among the usual run of library patrons
there is a marked dislike, sometimes
amounting to abhorrence, of novels by
Australian authors ; country subscribers
sometimes write about it. “No Austra-
lian authors” —whether this is prejudice
or fear or an attitude born of experience
is hard to say. With the books of Rose-
mary Rees, Elizabeth Milton and Alice
Grant Rosman, which have a solid
public, it is assumed by readers that the
writers must be English. Local writers
are usually judged by standards much
severer than those applied to English and
American writers. Readers say there is a
glamor around Piccadilly and the Strand
and Broadway and the Bowery that Pitt-
street and St. Kilda-road can never hope
to enjoy. If the Australian stockmen
would use Mexican saddles and the
bosses called their places ranches instead
of stations it would be of great assist-
ance to the popular novelists of Australia.
For if we are to have masterpieces we
must have popular novels too. But the
library reader of Australian novels is on a
masterpiece hunt. They should take a tip
from the English, reviewers, who shift
their standards to meet classes of fiction
and do not say that Denise Robins is not
so good a writer as Mary Webb or Sheila
Kaye-Smith, but show commonsense by
not comparing writers whose gifts and
aims are widely different.
The historical novel is another por-
tent. Jeffery Farnol, Rafael Sabatini,
E. J. Sarasin, E. Barrington all have ex-
traordinarily enthusiastic followings, but
these books serve their readers only as
an escape. Folk think they face enough
real life in business hours ; after that they
want fairy tales—fairy Napoleons and
fairy Byrons and fairy assassinations in
the streets of toy towered Camelots and
cardboard Veronas. After all, it must
have been a bitter and sordid life that
Villon led, and it should blossom in litera-
ture to something less tawdry than If /
Were King and the light opera founded
upon that book.
Then there are the “not-in” books.
Some folk begin to ask at their libraries
for books by their favorite authors which
have only just begun to appear serially.
Of course the book is not in the library ;
when it does appear in book form and,
with a glow of pleasure, you hand it to
the inquirer, she will as likely as not
damp your pleasure by saying coldly,
“Thanks, I’ve been asking you for that
book for three months.” It has been in
Australia only two days.
Somewhere in hell there is a furnace
in which borrowers are slowly roasted
over fires fed with the books they have
failed to return. Libraries must trust the
public. It cannot be otherwise. As an
example: An annual subscriber in the
last weeks of his period takes away six
or eight books valued at 6s. each ; if he
gets run over or fails to renew where are
you? You owe him a few shillings in
service and he owes you a couple of
pounds in books.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Authors
As News
The other day,
in an English
literary weekly, I
received a blow
in the eye from
this advertisement:
Authors ARE News.
I have never understood how it is (hat
writers are never given the personal write-
ups at the disposal of third-rate film
stars
—Sydney A. Moseley.
The Corrective is to be Found by Appli-
cation to: —
Authors’ News Service
London and Paris.
Authors are not news, and cannot get
the write-ups of film stars because, in
England at any rate, there are too many
authors. During the first half of 1936
just over 1100 new novels appeared in
Great Britain. I doubt if there could be
1100 third-rate film stars at work, even
in Hollywood.
A further circumstance which, on gen-
eral grounds, adversely affects the news
value of an author is that the highbrow
face is unlikely to launch a thousand
ships, and this aspect of the matter is
very serious when it comes to competi-
tion for write-uppitiness. Even third-rate
film stars are tolerably good-looking, but
the same cannot be said of authors—as
a general body. The fact of the matter
is that a write-up in a paper is not of
much value unless connected with a
photograph, and a photograph may,
in certain circumstances, do far more
harm than good. Here is an extract
from a letter to a London literary
journal which I cut out and filed for
reference some time ago:
I have never been able to read the works
of another of our well-known English
novelists because of the simian repulsive-
ness of his frequently-exposed features; the
vision gets in the way of the print and side-
tracks the mind into Darwinian reflections.
That correspondent is probably a woman,
but since women readers are in the
majority it is a serious matter. Obvi-
ously there is such a thing as face-value
in authorship, and on such an apparently
inconsequential thing as a handsome
visage royalties are nourished. A photo-
graph of a pleasing-looking author may
urge some to buy his books.
But there is, I imagine, a third, and
possibly graver, reason which adversely
affects the news value of an author, and
this is expressed in all the difference that
there is between movement and non-
movement. The other evening periodical
reports over the air brought me news
of a man who was riding from some-
where in Austria to some other where
in Austria—per bicycle. At one
moment the thrilling message would
come: “Alph Whosit has passed
through Vienna cycling strongly. He
is two and a half seconds ahead of the
record" ~ And that sort of message
came through every now and then, vary-
ing, of course, with Mr. Whosit’s pro-
gress. Now be would be here, now there,
and later he was promised to us —in
person—speaking from a studio. Now
I can imagine nothing duller than cycling
(in such a manner)—save, possibly, knit-
ting. But the only real difference be-
tween knitting and cycling is that there is
practically no movement in connection
with knitting; at least, there is no spec-
tacular movement in connection with it.
But a man on a bicycle is moving, and
actually Mr. Whosit was apparently
moving very rapidly. But could one
imagine broadcast news of an author?
“Mr. Rastus Gilhooley is now engaged on
his fifty-fourth thriller, and is writing
strongly at his home, Balmoral, Acacia-
road, Daceyville. When Mr. Gilhooley
has completed his novel he will speak to
you from the Reception House. ... No.
One could not imagine that, simply be-
cause there is no spectacular movement
in connection with novel-writing, or any
sort of writing.
And if there be a fourth reason it is
surely that we are now living in an age
in which the emphasis is on physical
attributes. “News” about film stars makes
up a goodly portion of the news-spread
of the average Australian daily and
weekly paper. After film stars come
athletes of various sorts, and after that
news concerning people who do such
vital things as land them in contact with
the law. All these folk are careering
across the stage in movement which
derives its sanction from physical
prowess of different sorts. It may be
that these folk do not know where they
are going, but still they are on their way.
They attract attention because they are
moving. It does not matter very much
whether they are moving over the foot-
ball field or over hurdles or across the
screen. They are all supposedly doing
vital things which are supposed to
require physical prowess.
And so we are brought face to face
with the fact that reading is not a popu-
lar sport. Nor is writing. The average
author has no news value simply because,
for the majority in any country, reading
and writing remain somewhat remote
and mysterious occupations. Moreover,
the business of authorship is not in any
(Continued on page 4.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING:
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES.
Write for free
copy of
Mail Order
Catalogue.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
USEFUL EQUIPMENT FOR MAKING HARD WORK EASIER
sum
8: i si
=8
f v
o
e
s;.n
: :
LC
Si**:
■
HM
ce©
BALL - BEARING
POST DRILL
No. 611.
TWO-SPEED
“DAWN” No. 616
HAND DRILL
75/-
This is a good serviceable
machine for medium work.
The shafts and spindles are
steel, and extra heavy. They
are accurately machined, finished and fitted.
Has both hand and automatic feed. The latter
is adjustable. Two speeds. Has a slotted
table which can be raised and lowered or
swung to one side as desired.
Specifications: Drills to centre of 12in. circle;
drills holes up to 1 -4-in.; spindle diameter, fin.;
run of feed, 3in.; run of table, 1 1 in.; chuck
bored for fin. bit; length overall, 33in.;
shipping weight, 961 b. Price 75/-
£5/17/6
It has two speeds and
is back-geared so that
crank turns forward
on both speeds. Two feeds—hand and auto-
matic are provided. Automatic feed is
adjustable to three speeds. A square slotted
table is provided. Spindle diameter, 1 fin.;
run of feed, 3 4 m. ; run of table, 1 Oin.; length
overall, 38in.; diameter of pulley, 6in.
No. 616. Gross weight 1121 b.
RELIABLE LIFTING JACKS
For Stump-grubbing, Log-rolling, General Lifting, etc.
Monkey Jack, with Guide and Two Spears.
To lift 10 tons. Price £lO/5/-
“Wallaby” Double-purchase Jack. Lift 4 tons.
Weight, 561 b. Price £5
“Wallaby” Double-purchase Special Jack.
Painted Brown. Lift 6 tons. Weight, 701 b.
Price £ 5/15/-
“Wallaby” Single-purchase Jack. Lift 2-| tons.
Weight, 491 b. Price 657-
Automatic lowering gear on all Double-
purchase Jacks.
® QUICK
® SIMPLE
# POWERFUL
For much long service and thorough
satisfaction, we recommend any of
the above Lifting Jacks. Simple to
operate. Make a selection from our
big variety.
•a
BPM>o
THE “RAPID” FORGE
Weight, 1501 b. A
strong and durable
forge forhorseshoers,
coachbuilders or any
class of heavy work.
£l2lO
The Blower is conveniently fitted, as one
man, if desired, can watch heat and turn
handle. Pan made of 12-gauge iron,
30in. x 24in. x 6in. deep, with hood,
door attached to side. Can be closed or
opened if necessary to get low in fire.
Legs made of 1 angle-iron, with cross
stays. Exra-heavy iron, with cross stays.
Extra-heavy fire iron provided. Advis-
able to lay a layer of clay on bottom of
pans. Price £l2/10/-
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
“THE SENIOR STORE.
HAND CRANK FORGE
The “Rapid” Hand Q /Cf/
Crank Forge, with
I 8in. Pan and
Machine-cut Gears; weight, 801b. This
Forge is made in Australia and will com-
pare favourably with any Portable Forge
on the market. It can be taken to pieces
and assembled in two minutes no
spanners required. Scientifically con-
structed to give the best possible blast.
Duplicate parts always obtainable.
Price £8/5/-
THE "RflPBLO” FORCE
£5'5'-
The “Rapblo” is
similar in construc-
tion to “Rapid.”
Fire-pans made of 16-gauge iron, 18in.
square, 3in. deep. Outrigger for hold-
ing tongs, long lengths of iron, etc.
Spiral machine-cut gearwheels, 9/16in.
in width, 40 to 1 ratio; 8in. fan case,
capable of producing a powerful blast.
A very fine general forge and a remark-
able production for the money.
Price 45/5/-
22in. Price £5/15/-
Cheaper line, 1 Sin. Price . . . £3/10/-
;r
BLACKSMITH’S VYCES
One of the best all- JBB /
round Vyces for Black- / gg
smiths. Occupies very J
little room. Sturdily *
constructed.
Blacksmiths' Leg Vyces. 3iin. Jaw up
to 451b. Price, each 58/-
4in. Jaw, average 561b. Price, ea., 59/6.
Jaw, average 601b.
Price, pound . • •
5in. Jaw, average 761b.
Price, pound • • • / •
6in. Jaw, average 1 1 Ol’b.
Price, pound l/l
0 Agricultural Department —Fourth
floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs
only.


way spectacular. Most males can iden-
tify themselves with famous cricketers,
jockeys, footballers, tennis-players or
even with screen stars. Quite certainly
no woman has any difficulty in identify-
ing herself, at least emotionally, with the
average female screen star. Both men
and women can believe that they might
have been famous in such roles had the
fates been kinder to them. But few can
identify themselves with poets or novel-
ists, for they know so little about the
impulses under which poetry is evoked
or the circumstances jn which a man
or woman may create literature.
It is just a way of looking at things.
The ideal male (or female) is not, appa-
rently, an author. He would acquire
more press celebrity as a painter, for that
implies more action. As a singer, of
course, he would acquire more celebrity
still, for that implies quite a lot of vigor,
andinsucha role he is interpreting through
a medium that all can understand. It
might be better, of course, if a slight
orientation could be given to the general
trend of public thought on these matters,
for such is obviously not the atmosphere
in which great literature is easily pro-
duced. After all, we shall not be remem-
bered by posterity on account of the
fame of our footballers or cricketers or
tennis-players or swimmers. But if we
live at all in the minds of posterity it will
be in the quality of our artistic produc-
tions, and by the literature that we pro-
duce will the standards of our time be
finally judged.
GERALD DILLON.
These
Australian
Writers
Miles Frank-
lin's article (B.
7/10/ ’36) raises
an interesting
query, but I think
she misses the
essence of the
matter. The chief weakness of local
writers is due neither to scarcity nor
overcrowding of characters in their
work. Lack of literary skill and un-
familiarity with their matter are the chief
drawbacks.
To any author worth his salt writing
about the scenes and people surround-
ing him or among which he was brought
up should be the most natural thing in
the world. Dickens, Tolstoi, Cervantes,
Smollett are cases in point, and in the
bulk of cases you’ll find that an author’s
best work is based on someone or some-
thing which he has seen or experienced.
Australian writers just can't accept the
Australian scene as natural. That is the
whole crux of the matter. Whenever
they try to picture it they exhibit either
timidity or over-boldness, and very rarely
the easy familiarity of the competent
writer.
1 have asked numerous people about
local novels, and invariably get the reply
that they don’t feel at ease reading them
because they sense a feeling of strain, of
shyness and unease in the author.
This is due, f think, to the difficulties
which our writers face in their younger
days. As many have attempted to show
(indeed it is a perennial theme with our
writers) the sensitive type of youth—the
budding artist or appreciator of art, in
short—must be hardy indeed to survive
the hostility and inertia which exist
towards art in this country. The result
is that the young artist early learns to
hate Australia and Australians. He. longs
lo escape to a place where art is properly
appreciated. Some do—they go to Eng-
land and never come back. But others
must stay here —or return, impelled by
some inward need. The intellect of such
people tells them that it is Australia and
Australians about which they must write. -
But try as they will they cannot escape
from their early conditioning. They ex-
amine Australia from a superior high-
brow standpoint, still resentful, still de-
sirous of changing it easily into a place
where they can feel appreciated and at
case. Thank God, the world will never
be like that. The writer —the true writer,
that is—is never uncomfortable, no
matter what the hardships of his per-
sonal life; for reality, the complex of
antagonisms, ugliness, beauty, pettiness
and inertia that makes up life, is never
hateful, but is the material from which
he makes his art.
DENTON FROUT.
“Swagger”
Dear Bulle-
tin, —During the
years you have
been printing and publishing serials, you
have given us some very good and some
just fair. But you seem to have struck
the best yet in All That Swagger. How
those pessimistic judges of yours came
to pick such a good tale gets me. I
hope the author lives a long life and
gives us some more on the same lines.
JAMES CORETT.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
THINGS THAT PASS
nr HE tide of standardisation that is
* creeping across the earth, even to
its remotest places, has awakened a
yearning not only, as in Australia, for
the distinctive culture that is in a large
measure precluded by it, but in older
countries for the ancient modes of life
that it is swamping. This has had its
reflection in literature. Bradford Smith in
To the Mountain gave an effective pic-
ture of the old Japanese culture being
broken down by the advance of modern
commercialism and of the tragedies re-
sulting in the private lives of people torn
between the old and the new. Now
Geraint Goodwin in an equally good
novel, The Heyday in the Blood (Jona-
than. Cape; Angus and Robertson;
7s. 6d.) describes the life of a Welsh
border district doomed to change before
what is called in the story “the chill
wind from the east.”
There is this difference between the
two writers: that where Smith from be-
ginning to end deals with the conflict,
Goodwin, perhaps more happily for his
reader, is able in greater part to tell of
inn, village and market town while the
chill wind is yet only shaking the heads
of beech-trees that in the end are felled
to make way for a motor road, while
the only foreigners are the “jentlemens”
who come periodically for the trout
fishing, and while modernity is heard
speaKing only in the voices of some
migrating laborers who stay overnight at
the local inn with tales of jobs in Lon-
don at “four quids a week.” Without
in any way idealising cither his scene or
his people Goodwin has achieved a dewi-
ness and a smell of country air in his
pages. His descriptions of the life of
the inn and the market town have, some-
thing of the poetic quality of Mary
Webb, his yokels are as amusing as
Thomas Hardy's and his more educated
characters, such as the parson, are pre-
sented with a touch of humor that brings
them fully alive. Twmi, a tavern-
keeper ; his daughter, Beti ; Evan the
Mill, a bard ; and Llew, a boy of the vil-
lage, are the main characters, the last
two being contenders for the love of
Beti.
They all are unconsciously both de-
fenders and betrayers of traditional
things: they would stand for the past,
but economic necessity, like water at the
foot of a sandbank, undermines them
and, as traditional figures, they col-
lapse. Twmi, a man of might and a
force among his neighbors, is the stout-
est, but his inn needs the patronage of
the “jentlemens.” Evan, the maker of
songs, is helpless in the face of chang-
ing conditions and his incompetence is
jeered at by Beti’s father when he goes
to woo. Llew, while hating the neces-
sities that drive him, becomes their
master. In fact, Llew shows himself
masterful in most things, though whether
he is the happier for that seems open to
question. For Beti, although she doesn't
know it, the two young men stand re-
spectively for the old and the new, and
in the end, desperately divided, she
makes a choice that indicates the force
of her particular needs.
Perhaps most typical, of the defeat of
rural innocence by urban sophistication
is the effect of the “jentlemens” on Beti.
She loathes their dressing-tables, littered
with pomades and other perfumed toilet
requisites, she learns that during their
presence in the inn she cannot raise her
skirt above her knees when she wishes
to run fast, and the whinnying that: comes
from behind the stables during the visit
of the travelling stallion, once merely
the “loud unanswerable shout of nature,”
has become a matter for shame. With-
out sentimentalising over the past —any
more than does the author himself —it is
impossible not to be grateful to him for
having fixed in the pages of literature an
image of a mode of life that, as his
story shows, has been swept away.
$ . * * *
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVERYMAN
Few novelists have much claim to ver-
satility. They themselves limit their
work to a narrow orbit. But this is
not true of Karel Capek. It is a far cry
from his Wellsian fantasy The Absolute
at Large to his charming The Gardener’s
Year , and from Fairy Tales to the trilogy
he has just completed in An Ordinary
Life, translated from the Czech by M.
and R. Weatherall (George Allen and
Unwin ; 7s. 6d.).
All the world is writing trilogies, but
this is of anew order. The three volumes
that comprise if, Hordubal, Meteor and
An Ordinary Life, have neither charac-
ters nor events in common, but they are
three variations on a philosophic theme:
the infinite, plurality of truth. In Hor-
dupal, a peasant drama, it is presented
objectively; in Meteor, wherein four
people try to reconstruct the life of an
unknown man found dead, it is imagina-
tive ; in An Ordinary Life a dying man
goes over his simple history and brings
to light the variety of subjective truth.
To arrive at anything like the truth even
the simplest and plainest facts must be
taken from many angles. This man—
we never learn his name —is Everyman.
He lived a very commonplace life. He was
the only child of a joiner ; he started life
as a clerk in the railways, rose in the
service through his industry, and mar-
ried happily. During the war he secretly
served the Czech national cause, and
after it was over he was rewarded. The
time comes when he is ill and can
work no more, He has always loved
order, and now, before he dies, he tries
to set the events of his life in order and
evaluate them.
It is the complete picture of a man's
life —three-dimensional. The few events
of that ordinary life recur and recur in
an ever-changing light as the man who
lived them probes deeper into them,
until we realise that here is the whole
of life and that in them are the seeds
of all things, good and evil. It is a very
subtle book for all its simplicity—its
matte surface. Detail is added to detail
without haste. The story is not offered
to us as a fait accompli —it is built before
our eyes. It grows as it grew in the
dying man’s mind. Above all it is ab-
sorbingly interesting. Here, we* feel, is
life off its guard for once. This is a
great feat not so much of virtuosity as
of understanding. In the lucidity of
its ending there is a touch of mysticism.
This is a triumph.
“Whoever you are, you are my innu-
merable self; even if I hated you I shall
never forget how terribly near you are
to me. I shall love my neighbor as
myself; and I shall fear him as if it
were myself, and I shall resist him like
myself; 1 shall feel his burden, I shall be
vexed with his pain, and I shall groan
under the iniquity that is done to him.
The nearer I shall be, the more, shall I
find myself. I shall set limits to the
egoists, for I myself am an egoist, and
I shall serve the sick, for I myself am
sick ; I shall not pass by a beggar at
the church door, because 1 am poor like
him, and I shall make friends with all
who labor, for I am one of them. I
am what I can understand.”
# * * *
MERELY “EXCITING”
As unpardonable as supplying a guest
with bad whisky out of a bottle carry-
ing the label of a reputable blend is for
an author inferentially to promise a
reader one sort of book and to fob him off
with something of a much inferior kind.
This is just what is done in The Snare
of the Fowler, by Gerald Bullett (Dent;
7s. 6d.), a book whose title, in the cir-
cumstances, is a temptation to an experi-
ment in punning.
Lured by acceptable prose the reader
grants the first half of the book serious
attention. Admittedly there are chapters,
such as those dealing with the matri-
monial entanglements of Tom Cord-
wainer, Drusilla’s encounters with
Cousin Adrian, a middle-aged widower
who seeks her hand, her relations with
Mr. Pomeroy the theatrical producer, and
her brother Phillip's affair with Clarice
Milford, whose possible part in any ulti-
mate pattern seem doubtful. But their
literary texture is encouraging, and, as
it is necessary in the early chapters of
all books to rely very much on the artis-
tically honest intentions of the author,
each of these matters of doubtful rele-
vancy is faithfully followed out. Eventu-
ally, however, it becomes clear that they
were merly lures. Thriller tactics
are resorted to. Chapters are broken off
on the verge of revelation, and there are
dropped hints which yet leave some-
thing in doubt. Those taken in by this
sort of thing will find it more absorbing
—even if less profitable—than a cross-
word puzzle; others will withdraw their
interest, disappointed that the author’s
fine display of literary style and approach
should cover nothing more admirable
than an intention to concoct a merely
“exciting” story.
The mystery is this: Drusilla, at thir-
teen, had a baby which she believed, on
her mother’s statement, to have been still-
born. Her husband, Robert, when he is
forty and the father of four children,
discovers her secret, and learns, to their
mutual horror, that he was that child.
He throws himself under a train. CEdipus
minus the complex. To save misunder-
standing it had best be explained that
the book, except in telling of Robert’s
last act, does not exploit the obvious
possibilities of the theme. It has the sup-
port of historic instance.
DAYS IN ARNHEM LAND
In Sky Pilot’s Last Flight (Angus and
Robertson; 6s.), K. Langford Smith,
worthily concludes the story of his ex-
periences as a missioner-aeronaut which
he began in his earlier book, A Sky Pilot
in Arnhem Land. For several years he
was in sole charge of the Roper River
Mission, and in the course of his duties
as dispenser of both spiritual and medi-
cal aid pioneered flying in the Terri-
tory. A very interesting part of his book
is devoted to his adventures in the air in
a country where storms are violent, land-
ing grounds far between and mostly un-
suitable. It was the last factor that at
length brought about the destruction of
the 'plane in which he had done so much
good service and to which he had be-
come affectionately attached. For the
rest, his book tells of his experiences in
the bush, of the Territorians, black and
white, who lived at his mission or visited
it in passing, and of the misunderstand-
ing that led to his recall from his field
of labor by the mission board in Sydney.
He is a close observer of men and things,
with a sense of humor and a gift ok
characterisation ; and he sets up for his
reader’s edification and amusement a
very good image of the life of Arnhem
Land from the viewpoint from which
he saw it. His bushmen are never merely
typical,; each is an individual. “George’s
face, square and determined, looked as
if it had been cut from an ironbark log
with adze and chisel. There were marks
here and there as if the chisel had
slipped, taking an accidental chip out of
the wood. These were scars caused by
reckless riding after wild cattle in lancc-
wood and wattle scrub.” He spices his
narrative with many humorous stories,
each of them racy of the scene he is
dealing with. He had difficulty with
tracking, being unable to distinguish old
tracks from new. “That one bin made
yesterday,” was his blackboy’s contemp-
tuous comment. Later he discovered an-
other track. “I suppose him old one,”
he said diffidently. But it was not. The
boy rubbed his hands together gleefully.
“Him properly new fellow. No more
to-day. That one bin made to-morrow.”
* * * #
HUNTERS OF THE DEEP
In Fangs of the Sea (Angus and Rob-
ertson ; 8s. 6d.) Norman Caldwell, in
collaboration with Norman Ellison, tells
of his experiences as a professional
shark- and turtle-catcher and deep-sea
fisherman. His stories, which include
some told him by others, deal with suen
desperate combats as man v. shark,
shark v. turtle, octopus v. shark, shark
v. alligator, whale v. sharks and, most
strange of all, man v. giant crabs. Cald-
well was in charge of the experiment in
commercial shark-fishing off Port
Stephens (N.S.W.) a few years ago and
later went to Cossack (W.A.) to assist
in catching turtles for the manufacture
of turtle soup. Describing the first
enterprise he tells of net hauls of up to
50 sharks ; 29 being taken in one haul
just beyond the first line of breakers at
one of Sydney’s most popular surfing
beaches. “While we were getting the
catch aboard, several surf boats pulled
out to within a few feet of the shark
boat. It seemed to me that the crews
were unnaturally quiet as they rowed
back to the shore.”
In the interval between taking part in
the undertakings mentioned he fished in-
dependently for sharks in Barrier Reef
waters, making his home with the Boyd
Lee family on Grassy Island at the
northern end of Hinchinbrook Passage.
His book is at its best in the informa-
tive chapters, explaining the methods,
dangers, delights and possible rewards
of shark- and turtle-catching on a com-
mercial scale, and in the anecdotes about
the domestic life of the Lees on their
tropic isle. The stories of hairbreadth
escape, as in the chapters entitled ’Bar-
rier Nocturne” and “Caged with Death,’
while, no doubt true in substance, suffer
in the telling from violent straining after
effect. The volume is illustrated and
exceptionally well produced.
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Fiction: An Ordinary Life, Karel
Capek (George Allen and Unwin).
Travel: Sky Pilot's Last Flight, K.
Langford Smith (Angus and Robertson):
News from Tartary, Peter Fleming
(Cape). Novels: Tare Harvest, Eleanor
Peters (Cape); The White Hare, Francis
Stuart (Collins); Heyday in the Blood.
Geraint Goodwin (Cape); Education
Before Verdun, Arnold Zweig (Martin
Seeker); In Dubious Battle, John Stein-
beck (Heinemann). Biography : Sher-
ston’s Progress, Siegfried Sassoon (Faber
and Faber). Poetry: Tom Groggin and
Other Verse, Mary Lang (Dent).
F.D.D.


JEAN BATTEN
the intrepid young
heroine of the air,
who has relied on
CASTROL as the
lubricant for her
amazing sequence
of achievements.
SMASHES Solo
RECORD from
ENGLAND to
AUSTRALIA
5 DAYS 20 HRS. 50 MINS.
AND CREATES
ENGLAND TO
NEW ZEALAND
RECORD
FLYING TIME:
6 DAYS 6 HRS. 20 MINS.
AND AUSTRALIA
to NEW ZEALAND
RECORD
COAST TO COAST—
9i HOURS.
-aN v v‘
vi Ct C H
H°v
0' V
WAKEFIELD
□
0
«
MOTOR OIL
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO. LTD.. THE "ALL BRITISH
FIRM
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
No License Required
Tell “Borderer” (B. 23/9/’36) that guns
are not licensed in Victoria. Apparently
the constable who asked for licenses
before hare-shooting commenced wanted
to stop the shoot and tried “a bluff.” —
Boswell (Vic.).
Physical Jerks on Saturday
Now that Maoriland has the 40-hour
week, it would be an excellent idea if
the Government introduced some form
of compulsory training—even if it’s only
physical jerks—for an hour each Satur-
day morning. Young fellows from 18
to 30 years need it most. Many are
wasting their extra leisure by hanging
around bars and betting shops.—
O. W. W. (M.L.).
Westralian Wildflowers
Westralia has a law prohibiting the old
savage style of wildflower collection.
Wildflowers must be cut; possession of
rooted plants is illegal. But, like so many
laws, it is not enforced, and the annual
devastation is on. Tourists don’t see
much floral splendor at the back doors
of Westralian towns. The glory has de-
parted for fastnesses of the ranges and
the sanctuary of the railways.— Ads
(W.A.).
The Wrong House
In B. 5/8/’36 a certain “Mish
Bish” asserted than “one of the com-
mercial broadcasting stations devotes
some part of its Sunday programme to
an exposition, by a Sydney adherent, of
the interesting theory that the British
are part of the Ten Lost Tribes of
Jewry.” This was incorrect. The speaker
has consistently stated that the British
are the descendants of the “House of
Israel,” and not the “House of Judah.” —
A W. E. (N.S.W.).
An Economy Party
A Tasmanian storekeeper has pub-
lished in his local paper two typical
accounts for goods supplied in the years
1914 and 1936: —
1914. —121 b. sugar 2s. 9d., lib. tea Is.
3d., 31b. salt 3d., lib. candles 6d., lib. cur-
rants 6d., 1 pkt. matches 3d., 2 Havelock
tobacco Is. 6d., 1 tin herrings 6d., 1 tin
salmon 9d., 6 reels cotton Is., 31b. soda 3d.,
lib. biscuits 7d.; total 10s. Id.
1936.—121 b. sugar 45., lib. tea 2s. 5d.,
31b. salt 3d., lib. candles Is., lib. cur-
rants 9d., 1 pkt. matches 7d., 2 Havelock
tobacco 3s. 2d., 1 tin. herrings Is., 1 tin
salmon Is. 9d., 6 reels cotton 25., 31b. soda
6d., lib. biscuits Is.; total 18s. sd. (Same
brands.)
And still we possess no adequate de-
fence force, though we have a higher
rate of postage than any other part of
the Empire. Too much money is spent
both by Federal and State Parliaments
in ground-baiting constituencies. What
we want is an Economy party. —C. M. L.
(Tas.).
The Sanctuary Is Here
Why not a great national sanctuary for
our unique fauna (B. 23/9/’36)? We
have one now, and a better spot for the
purpose would be hard to find.
Named Flinders Chase, after the great
cartographer who first charted most of
the S.A. coasts, it was established on the
western end of Kangaroo Island nearly
20 years ago. All the mainland animals
and birds which were liberated there are
thriving ; the place is well watered and
has abundant natural food ; the rabbit
and fox are unknown there, and the only
pest is the wild pig. The island enjoys
a wonderful climate all the year, with
frosts very rare and drought almost un-
known.
The sanctuary is much less than an
hour by ’plane from Adelaide, but there
is no landing-ground handy, and it is
both difficult and costly to reach the
Chase at present. With transport difficul-
ties overcome, a small grant to improve
the place and a little advertising, it would
be one of the show places of the Com-
monwealth. —H. A. L. (S.A.).
Values
We have a queer sense of values in
this country.
Premier Stevens goes touring the
world, with entourage, at a cost of £2369.
Whether he learned anything or gained
anything for N. S. Wales is doubtful;
even so, an election could easily hurl
him into outer darkness.
N. S. Wales’s best soil-erosion expert,
E. S. Clayton, has been in U.S.A. many
months studying, and will undoubtedly
bring back knowledge of lasting value on
an important national subject. So far,
his trip has taken £224 from the Treas-
ury. He is a permanent officer, unswayed
by elections. Three or four such men —
and the State has them —could have gone
abroad for a year on what Mr. Stevens
spent. The accumulated knowledge
thereby gained might be worth a million
times the benefit —if any —that may be
derived from Mr. Stevens’s travels. —
C. H.S. (N.S.W.).
Wasted Sea-wealth
Our neglect of our splendid sea heri-
tage is sinful. As far back as 1910 I
wrote an article on the shocking waste
along the whole of the western seaboard.
I have seen dragnets thrown out while
the old Gorgon and the Sultan lay in
Port Hedland and in Broome and Derby.
As fa.st as the nets could be dragged in
they were found filled with choice fish;
perhaps a couple of dozen were chosen
for ship and hotel, the rest being thrown
to the sandhills or the mangroves.
The very best kind of algae, con-
taining the finest of gelatine and the heal-
ing properties associated with a well-
known cough remedy, can be gathered
in tons and tons from any of the low-
lying western coasts from Bunbury to
Derby. Enough to supply the whole of
the continent and half of Europe, besides
which the dried gelatine commands a
great sale in Asia.
Millions have been made from pearl-
ing. Could anything be more squalid
or hopeless than the industry has be-
come ; and what has it left to Australia?
CHLOE (N.S.W.).
A Hawkesbury River launch capsized
in a storm near Brooklyn on Sunday. It
carried 14 people, nearly all picnickers,
from Sydney’s eastern suburbs; at dawn
on Monday two, Wolfe Kalenstein, of
Randwick, and Norman Jones, of Leich-
hardt, were rescued, nearly dead, from
rocks to which they had struggled after
swimming for hours. Of the others no
trace could be found. Kalenstein’s wife,
two sisters, a brother and a girl (Sally
Klarnett) engaged to the brother were all
in the launch.
* * * *
In the N.S.W. Supreme Court on
Wednesday Acting Justice Owen and a
jury entered upon the. hearing of an
action in which P. R. Stephensen sued
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Brian
Penton and G. F. L. Bombelli. Plaintiff
alleged that an article published in The
Bulletin on October 10, 1934, was a
libel on him in respect' of his business as
book publisher, and claimed £5OOO
damages. When this issue had to go
to the printer he was still giving evi-
dence ; a report of the proceedings will
appear next week. For the plaintiff, Mr.
Piddington, K.C., Mr. Gordon Farrer
and Mr. Jack Richards (instructed by
Messrs. Fawl and Hudson Smith); for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. and Bom-
belli, Mr. Curtis, K.C., Mr. McGhie and
Mr. Bruxner (instructed by Messrs.
Dibbs, Crowther and Osborne); for
Penton, Mr. Reimer (instructed by
Messrs. Shipway and Berne).


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
SmmHHml
.
iBSM -
x:
■
H
■
it
mm
mm
m
WSm
*" ..
i *| . :
Jp }
■■
1
:»w»s
mmm
m mm m SI
Jgp .
iSpi®
M
j f | I mj&tS rMK&m sm* ° "j
■* ~« iii mmmmM miris n ws ii
-ini i 1 ■■-
MB
iiii
IBfe
i s
H
s*ssSr jBEBpS
Sii»
ii
Trs iiiidl
i :; H
1 'Wwmml SHI wl^aHP;
ft TfrrPft - IMKc. j
LU i 11! f Iff fSliilHiiiir i: sif v F'i
I, , ... B ttMiik 1 -I
... ;• . / i”
j , , <f Jr; • JmmJNßmfsu
* i
1
fjMMB f-. 'J Ip • : 1
Lfir; :|
'\ / " ''
.
IIPISP , s
I||P|l K '’
i
U^^tKl ! ‘'
K 2/ ;„y
■
fllli .)
Bii ■. Aj|fj§ I' ,?'£ itMii
.
BP # ■
& qfel "wmmvmzMinsnf |^Bf||
m
TJJ
'''' '' ' ''/
v„
- 1 1®
ipfc -
\
1 |
i
C\
.
fef- v£‘ -X 5 V ®S»§|£iB*| s t'
■ ■
sfi:ii»P§i!l|l|iii : .i|ir. f ii#4isi : S
'
|§||§ |
m
(llllil
iilit iiipiiiiii i
S®? ■ :..'.'
« lIP
V - *
?A-jr:%Fag£.acffey,,° ■& w..
■I * ‘ ''* " l&i
■P:S
■
| :i:|;i|||s|
■ 1
N-- • m
%
: ;:§m
•:■ z ; ||l
m
.
■
ii:-..-'■
_ ..
Further View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars .


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2958.
October 21, 1936.
ABSOLUTELY, WHAT?
“Free? Of course, you’re free! To show how free you are I now invite you to case yourself in our new patent undetachable strait-jacket.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £l 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
GULLETT MUST GO.
When Mr. Forde was called to account for saying that
Mr. Gullett was arguing for his trade war “with his
tongue in his cheek.” Mr. Gregory interposed with
the bitter remark that Mr. Gullett would “get a lot
more than that before this is all over.”
The old member for Swan was as good as his
word. Mr. Gullett, he said last Wednesday, had “done
nothing but create animosity against Australia” ; he
should be known as “the Minister for Trade Wars.”
Nations “must trade with each other or fight” ; the
Government had thrown out a direct challenge to
Japan, and its policy was destroying Australia’s old
friendship with that country and with the United
States.
Another Country-party member, the South Aus-
tralian Cameron, followed with a characteristically
outspoken condemnation of the trade-diversion stunt
and “hush-hush.” Against Japan and the U.S.A., he
said, “the Government has instituted most severe and
repressive acts in restraint of trade.” It was not
Country-party policy, as he understood it; yet when
he, a supporter of the Government and a representative
of wool- and wheat-men, had written to the Prime
Minister “asking for information on the Japanese
position,” he had received no reply.
A Parliamentary report of an Assembly debate
on the Westralian Land Act Amendment Bill reveals
one of the reasons for Mr. Gregory’s indignation.
The bill was introduced by Mr. Troy, the Minister of
Lands, with the explanation that it was “a short
measure to provide relief for pastoralists who have
been injured by the drought.” Drought in Westralia,
100, as well as the one of which the Queensland Land
Administration Board has written that “it affected
many more people than the drought of 1898-1902”?
Yes:
Practically the whole of the [Westralian] pastoral
areas is in the throes of a drought which, for severity and
extent, is unprecedented jn the history of the industry
in this State. Some districts have experienced a succes-
sion of dry seasons extending over six years I fear
the whole of the saltbush on the Murchison is gone.
Thus Mr. Troy, who for 32 years has been
member for Mt. Magnet, which is part of the Murchi-
son, and is himself a farmer. He went on to state
that on 60 Westralian properties last year 1,239,129
sheep were shorn for a yield of 23,096 bales of wool;
this year the number of sheep shorn had fallen to
893,962 and the yield to 14,678 bales. It was estimated
that there were now only 3,500,000 sheep where a
year ago there were 5,500,000; “the lambs dropped
in 1935 have long since died” ; and with the loss of
“two years’ natural increase,” and of so many breeding
ewes, “even when the drought has broken rebuilding
of flocks will be extremely slow.”
Mr. Wise, the Minister of Agriculture, is member
for Gascoyne, “which, prior to this drought, was
considered the safest pastoral district in the State.”
Said Mr. Wise of his vast division:
The most appalling conditions prevail. The normal
clip within my electorate is 50,000 bales, it would
not now be even 40 p.c. of that. Pastoralists have
trucked lambs 300 miles to get them feed; stations
250 miles from port are paying £2O a ton for fodder
to keep ewes alive; stations that carry 25,000 sheep have
this year shorn 7000 sheep.
Nearly all these stricken pastoralists hold Crown
leases, their rents being based on the price of greasy
tvool, as it rises above or falls below 12d, a pound in
the preceding season. For the year to June 30, 1935,
Westralian “greasy” averaged 9.119 d. Australian, and
1935-36 rents were 7.286 per cent, below normal; for
ihe season to June 30, 1936, the average was 13.42 d.
a pound, and if the customary procedure were
followed 1936-37 rents would go up 8.52 p.c. above
normal and 25.8 p.c. above the 1935-36 figure. The
bill, which is to operate till December 31, 1937,
empowers the Minister, on the recommendation of a
Board of Appraisers, to grant partial or total relief
from rent; and if the necessity still exists the measure
will be re-enacted.
Tt will call for a considerable sacrifice of State
revenue. This sacrifice would not be so great had the
drought spared the wheat areas ; “with normal seasons
in the wheat belt,” Mr. Troy explains, “breeding ewes
would have been sent down on agistment from adjoin-
ing pastoral country.” But the seasons have been so
far from normal that many Westralian wheatgrowers
have had no crops for two years. They have been
far from normal for wheatgrowers in other parts of
Australia also. Nevertheless Mr. Gullett s withers
are unwrung, for has he not said again and again
that Japan buys only wool from Australia? His
Government’s statistician gives a long list of Aus-
tralian commodities that Japan has actually bought,
and among them was wheat valued at £1,923,500 in
1935-36 and at £2,273,900 in 1934-35; but perhaps
the statistician, like the deputy-leader of the Labor
party, would be stigmatised as “pro-Japanese.
Defending the driving of our second-best cus-
tomer out of the market, Mr. Gullett airily declared
that “wool can always be sold at world-parity prices."
It could—and was in Westralia. With this result,
according to Mr. Troy:
The ability of the industry to meet the burdens
imposed by the drought ha*s been materially weakened
by reason of a protracted period of low prices, which
ruled up till last season, during which time the reserves
of the pastoralists were eaten up and operations were
continued only through the assistance of the banks
and financial houses.
Mr. Troy did not expressly state what the “low
prices” were. The Queensland Land Administration
Board gives a list of Brisbane brokers’ averages for
“greasy” during the years in which, as it says, “seasonal
conditions, as well as prices,” were “against sheep
graziers, and in many places losses, not merely of
profits, but of capital also,” were “considerable.” They
were 9.48 d. Australian a pound in 1932-33, 7.74 d. in
1931-32, 9.28 d. in 1930-31 and 10.26 d. in 1929-30.
Such was the situation in the two frontier States
when Big City and butter-and-eggs politicians at Can-
berra picked their quarrel with Japan. No wonder Mr.
Forde and Mr. Gregory are angry. If “the negotia-
tions for a settlement,” which have lasted five months
already, drag on much longer, the public will get
angry, too. The first condition of a settlement is that
Mr. Gullett should be dismissed or transferred to
some other post. He may, as some believe, be less
responsible for the disastrous quarrel than one of his
butter-and-eggs colleagues, but the fact remains that
he has done all the negotiating and Cannot now
arrive at an accommodation without loss of face. And
it would be better that a thousand Gulletts should
be sacrificed than that relations which were cordial
and mutually profitable till May 22 should become
definitely unfriendly.
Premium Bonds Are Better.
The report of the S.A. Commission on Lotteries would
have a brisk sale if issued in a cheap reprint. It is
an able historical and analytical survey of a silly
craze which has very harmful features, as the writers
show. Not the least of these are the growth of
superstition among subscribers (“investors,” they are
called in newspapers which ought to know better),
which takes such idiotic forms as rushing to buy
lottery tickets when Friday falls on the thirteenth day
of the month, and the disrespect for State laws
impudently encouraged by parties to the degrading
competition.
The commission collected some astonishing facts.
One is that two Government lottery concerns employ
249 civil servants, who, presumably, are all qualifying
for superannuation benefits. A State which hands
over the lottery business to a private company draws
29 p.c. of the proceeds in stamp duty and income tax
—l2 p.c. of its total revenue. In another State,
where the lotteries are comparatively small, one
agent’s gross income is £5OOO a year. In a third
State the investigators were officially informed that
“the majority of the subscribers are on the basic wage
or thereabouts.” This sort o.f thing enforces plain
living, though it scarcely tends to high thinking, but
Governments are afraid to stop it.
We gained the definite impression that lotteries
conducted on the scale at present existing in three
States tend to become the masters rather than the
servants of the Governments which installed them. This
state of affairs tends to demoralise Governments.
As to the chances of “investors,” it has already
been mentioned that the odds against their winning
a cash prize range from 79 to l to 128 to I. The odds
against their winning first prize in a “big” lottery are
199,999 to 1. In the case of a series of £12,000
lotteries:
On the law of averages a contributor must send
143 times, costing nearly £36 (with postage), to get a
£5 prize; 2000 times, costing £550, to get a £lO prize;
4000 times, costing £llOO, to get a higher prize than
£10; 2Q,000 times, costing £5500, to get one of the 10
major prizes. On the basis of chance he may do better,
but he has an equal chance of doing worse.
A vague impression exists that the Common-
wealth Government, which had one particular lottery
on its index for years, has repealed the law by
virtue of which this interdict was imposed. The com-
mission points out that this is not the case. It was
advised by the S.A. Crown Solicitor that the Post-
master-General could, “on taking the proper steps
under the Post and Telegraph Act, 1901-1923,” publish
in the “Commonwealth of Australia Gazette” a
direction prohibiting the delivery of letters and remit-
tances to lottery concerns in four States or their agents
or representatives.
It has been claimed that Sweden weathered the
economic storm better than any other county in the
world, and was the first to emerge from it. The
commission mentions in the historical part of its report
that there are no State lotteries in Sweden, and the
sale of foreign lottery tickets is visited with severe
penalties; but there are “various premium-bond loans
which contain the lottery' element.” No doubt.
although the commission does not say so, premium
bonds helped Sweden in its extremity. While gratify-
ing the taste for a mild flutter, they do not waste the;
capital of the great majority of subscribers or any
subscriber, and they have none of the other objec-
tionable features which the commission noted during
its wanderings through lottery-ridden States.
It seems highly probable that premium bonds
would suit Australian conditions and the Australian
temperament.
Explorations in the North.
There is amusing stuff in the recently-issued report
of the North Australia Aerial Geophysical Survey.
For a beginning it is explained that some delay
was caused by “the absence from Australia Of the
Honorable S. W. Munsie, Minister of Mines,” West-
ralia's nominee on the survey committee. The com-
mittee could not be legally constituted till Mr. Munsie
deigned to come home from abroad and have a bill
passed. When Mr. Munsie arrived, wonderful results
were obtained, along with portraits of Senator A. J
McLachlan, Mr. James Stopford, Mr. Munsie, Mr.
Herbert Gepp and a Mr. Nye (not Bill), and othes
interesting geophysical illustrations.
Senator A. J. McLachlan is P.M.G. and Minister
in Charge of Development and Scientific and Industrial
Research. Though he was able to cover “only two
months’ operations,” he and his co-Ministers in
that time “built up an excellent scientific technical
organisation,” which “helped to draw attention ol
the Australian people to the resources and difficulties
of the northern third of the continent”:
We have drawn attention to the Arltunga, Winnecke
and White Range goldfields. Wc have assisted the
present pioneers and have advised investors of the tacts
and probabilities. The fields are located in the southern
portion of the Northern Territory.
For the discovery recorded in the last sentence,
old prospectors and gougers and a couple of genera-
tions of company promoters and investors owe Mr.
McLachlan and his mates a deep debt of gratitude.
Old-timers had come to the conclusion that they were
living at the ends of the earth on the brink ol the
Pit of Despair, but Mr. McLachlan and science have
come to their rescue. “The fields are located in he
southern portion of the Northern Territory”—Cortez
never uttered a more refreshingly positive declaration
with more becoming modesty.
Tennant Creek, too, owes a debt to Canberra.
Mr. McLachlan and retinue “helped to draw attention
to its auriferous possibilities.” Not with much result,
it must be admitted. After Mr. McLachlan wrote his
report, the miners there had to threaten to go to
Canberra on camels before the Department of the
Interior would provide them with a battery.
Another section of the N.T. so arrested the geo-
physical eye of Mr. Gepp that his Minister called
“specific attention” to it. Reading of that vast gold-
and tin-field of which aerial survey has deduced the
existence “west of Pine Creek and north and south
of the Daly River,” one can almost hear the gale o!
laughter which must have shaken the souls of the
legions of departed whites and Orientals when the
report of the latest find reached the Middle Air—
they pre-dated Messrs. McLachlan, Gepp and Nye in
discovery by half a century.
Westralia, of course, has had its share of the
benefits conferred by the new Columbuses. “The
knowledge of the important Pilbarra area has been
extended,” and “arrangements are in hand for a survey
of the important Eastern and West Kimberley mineral
fields.” But, beside Queensland, Westralia is badly
treated. In the Cloncurry area:
Geophysical indications point to the probable occur-
rence of large auriferous copper-ore bodies in the
vicinity of Trekelano.
This seems distinctly probable. There is an auri-
ferous copper-mine at Trekelano to which a special
railway has been built off the Duchess extension. The
acute observations of the flying Canberrans have
received startling confirmation in the Cloncurry
warden's last report:
Trekelano Mine. At the 700 ft. level, the north drive
has been extended 13ft Ore consigned to the
Chillagoe smelters during the month totalled 675 tons.
And not only the owners of Trekelano have cause for
delight at “the probable occurrence” in their district:
If present expectations are realised this discovery :
would mean that additional supplies of gold-bearing ore,
containing also iron and sulphur, would become avail-
able for the State smelters at Chillagoe.
And Mr. McLachlan has found out —whether or
not by geophysical methods he does not tell his “dear
Prime Minister" —that “the smelters are in urgent need
of supplies of such material.” The finding of addi-
tional ore “will tend to reduce the loss at present
resulting from operations.”
Actually the Chillagoe smelters are a thousand
miles by rail from Trekelano and nearly as far from
Cloncurry. Mt. Isa does its smelting on the spot.
All other mines in the Selwyns are tied to the
thousand-mile-long carpet-snake of a railway, and it
swallows a large proportion of their profits.
Anybody who does not feel enthusiastic about the
work which the Aerial Geophysical Survey did last
year at least can find consolations. It cost only
£35,000. The 1936 estimate is £50,000. And what’s
£50,000? The mere price of three trips to England
for a Prime Minister and his retinue. And after the
£50,000 is all gone somebody may “call attention” to
Ravenswood. Charters Towers, Croydon. Etheridge,
Einasleigh. the Palmer. Ebagoolah and Hall’s Creek,
where, possibly, “indications of mineral deposits exist.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Reform," Ladies and Gentlemen!
“Trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navi-
gation, shall be absolutely free.” Able Australians,
inspired by a noble patriotism, wrote those words
into the Constitution, and the words stand: the highest
tribunal in the Empire has ruled that they mean what
plain people have all along taken them to mean.
But the section (92) has become unpalatable to
powerful minorities which demand what they call
“orderly marketing” and “home-consumption prices,”
and politicians who are their obedient servants have
a plan for devitalising it. According to the Attorney-
General “the Commonwealth” (he means the obedient
politicians) “has. devised a section to be inserted after
Section 92”:
92 a. —The provisions of the last preceding section
shall not apply to laws with respect to marketing made
by the Parliament in the exercise of any powers vested
in the Parliament by this Constitution.
What does “marketing” signify? Says Mr.
Menzies:
The term, I consider, would be held to cover the
buying and selling of goods and the transactions
incidental thereto.
“Held” by whom? By the High Court, whose
judgment, as in the James case, would be subject to
appeal to the Privy Council. So if “92a” were added
to the Constitution —it can be done only with the
sanction of majorities of Commonwealth electors and
electors in four States —the dreary round of litigation
would begin again. In the end, if what Mr. Menzies
“considers” were “held” to be good law, “trade, com-
merce and intercourse among the States” would no
longer be “absolutely free.”
But we are assured that the present Common-
wealth Government, the Government that launches
trade-wars by Ministerial edict, would not abuse the
power it asks the people to part with.
If any arrangement were set up to pool or market,
it would have to be with a substructure of State
legislation and a coping-stone of Commonwealth legis-
lation.
In other words, the initiative would rest with the
State Parliaments, and the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment would become the obedient servant of the State
Parliaments, as well as of the powerful minorities
that demand the emasculation of Section 92. There
are six State Parliaments, and every year or so there
is a State election. Subordination of the national
authority to changing provincial Legislatures might
mean that support for the “orderly-marketing” legis-
lation would have to be bought,
Mr. Menzies “considers” again that “it will be
extraordinarily difficult” for any State Government
or Parliament “to object to such a limited kind of
amendment.” Considering that on this issue State
Governments and Parliaments can act only as electors,
with 505 votes altogether, whether they object or
approve doesn’t matter a dump. Three million other
Commonwealth electors won’t find it at all “difficult.”
The Return to Isolation.
At the beginning of the year Australia was assured
by “sanctionist” newspapers that the Empire could
never become isolationist again. Some of them now
confess that isolation from the affairs of the Mad
Continent is being forced on it.
It is largely a result of the admission of Red
Russia to the League. Circumstances or cold feet or
something obliged the Red Russians to drop world
revolution as an acknowledged objective, the substitute
plan being to dish the “capitalist” countries by setting
them against one another. It was hoped to detach
France from the “capitalist” countries, and Paris poli-
ticians eagerly swallowed the bait of a Russian
alliance. They must be very sorry for themselves now.
Muscovite intrigues at Geneva have disgusted
some members of the League and alarmed others.
Fearful that the new Franco-Russian alliance will
involve it in another German war, Belgium has
virtually declared its independence of French policy,
and its young king has commended to his people “the
proud examples of Holland and Switzerland,” which
are not suffused with “the Locarno spirit,” and are
bound by no mutual-security agreements other than
the covenant of the shadow of a League. And the
course of the Spanish war has shown that, in Spain
at least, Reds are inferior fighters, and this has raised
doubts as to whether the other Red Army has really
improved in mettle since it was so thoroughly licked
by the Poles.
It suited Moscow to allege that the Spanish Reds
were going down because the winners were getting
foreign help. With effrontery unparalleled except by
some of its own performances, it demanded that
Britain and France should police Portuguese waters
to prevent the landing of machines and munitions
consigned to “the rebels” by Fascist Powers. Russia
itself was not to send warships; all the dangerous
work was to be done by its ally and by “imperialist”
Britain, whose Mr. Anthony Eden has been a source
of far-from-innocent merriment to Litvinoff and the
rest of the mob at Moscow.
This colossal example of Communist cheek will
strengthen the determination of Britons, encouragingly
exemplified in the non-intervention policy, to regain
their independence of the plots and intrigues of the
Mad Continent.
Why the R.A.A.F.?
The habit of regarding the R.A.A.F. as a sort of
stunters’ . salvage corps has become fixed in some
quarters, and the Minister of Defence eagerly reacts
to sensationalism and hysteria.
In the space of a fortnight two wandering aero-
planes were lost. A couple of amiable Dutchmen
blundered into salt-lake country in Westralia, and
air-force machines were sent to discover them. The
Monospar which went ashore on the Seringapatam
Reef called for another expedition.
Then Miss Batten arrived, and forthwith an-
nounced that she intended flying on to Maoriland.
Efforts were made to dissuade her, Colonel Johnston,
of the Civil Aviation Department, pointing out that
“the flight would have no practical value.” In this
very proper attitude he received no support from his
Government, and the inescapable ass suggested in the
House of Representatives that “the R.A.A.F. should
furnish an escort.”
The very courageous and competent girl com-
pleted her self-imposed task—half-deaf, almost worn
out, and with a leaky petrol-tank.
Meanwhile it was discovered that a couple of
film actors from Sydney had set out from Lord Howe
Island in a 16-foot boat with a deep-sea speed of about
a couple of knots, intending to cross one of the most
turbulent bits of ocean in the Pacific. When they did
not turn up there were cries for R.A.A.F. help, and
Mr. Parkhill immediately asked the Air Force to do
the usual job. He was informed that there were no
suitable aeroplanes available for the purpose:
The Southampton flying boats are undergoing over-
haul and the Seagull amphibians have a range of only
50 miles from their base.
It is nowise heartening to find that the front line
of Australia’s air-defence force is in this condition,
but the very scarcity of machines points the necessity
for conserving them. It is a desperate struggle to
get modern fighting aeroplanes built at all. When
they are built they cost a pretty penny, and they are
flown by first-class pilots whom it has taken years
to train.
The Government, being the sort of Government
it is, “reconsidered the position.” So two amphibians,
a land machine and a destroyer were engaged for
days in a search.
It should be made crystal-clear that Australia
maintains the R.A.A.F. for one purpose only—defence
—and that its valuable personnel and aeroplanes will
never again be jeopardised in any job other than that
for which they were designed.
A Scot's Tough Task.
Victoria’s investigator from Scotland Yard has made
a good beginning. He has not uttered a word that
any newspaper could snatch up and use in evidence
against him. Inspector Duncan is a Banffshire man,
and that is about all he has told anyone in Melbourne.
Reporters put two and two together and called him
a reticent Scot.
Inspector Duncan faces a stiff task. In Victoria,
as in at least one other State, police methods have
been questioned with disconcerting regularity in recent
years. Questioned from the Bench as well as the
dock ; discussed in a thousand clubs and a hundred
thousand homes. Physique and equipment, generally
speaking, are above reproach; individual members,
both uniformed and in plain clothes, are efficient and
good-tempered; yet the standing of the force has
slipped in the eyes of the very people it should serve
and protect.
Recommendations for the modernising of detec-
tion methods are required less than proposals for
improving the relations between police and public,
and between policemen themselves. The Scotland
Yard man may conceivably suggest that a percentage
of future recruits be sought among young men from
colleges, high schools and even the university. They
would certainly be preferable to the type of lowbrow
who imitates the language and methods of the hard-
boiled cops he sees in the gangster films and reads
about in the crime magazines.
Brisbane's "Birthright."
PRiDE and happiness reign in the heart of the Labor
Lord Mayor of Brisbane, for his metropolis has at
last “come into its birthright.” It is offering a public-
loan flotation, by kind permission of the Loan Council.
More than quarter of a century has been occupied
in giving Brisbane this “birthright,” but this has not
prevented it from acquiring a municipal debt, of more
than £7O per head of population. Brisbane has
21 paid aldermen, who spend a lot of their time
planning new loan programmes, for which, of course,
new loans must be raised. Hence the jubilation over
the “birthright.”
The £400,000 is to carry 4j p.c. interest, and 1 p.c.
p.a. is to be paid into a sinking fund during the 12
years’ currency of the loan. Thus in 1948 another
loan will be needed to pay off the bulk of this one.
The Lord Mayor and the Premier advise subscriptions,
on mixed grounds of self-interest and patriotism, and
mention that it is a “gilt-edged” security. Actually
the security of the loan is twofold—the power of the
City Council and the Government, as guarantor, to
tax the people for interest, and the capacity of the
people to meet the demands.
During the last few years the amount of rates in
arrear has averaged about £600,000. Special efforts
to collect arrears have been fairly successful, but
current dues have slipped to about a corresponding
degree. So the twirling cat never catches its tail.
Dumping the Cement Industry.
On December 1, unless action is taken in the mean-
time, the duty of 6d. per cwt. on British cement will
lapse. Indications are that the Ministerial members
who secured a partial victory by forcing a postpone-
ment on the Government do not propose to make
another fight for protecton.
Ministerialists who voted against the Govern-
ment when the question was put to a division on
March 27 were Messrs. D. Cameron, Groom, Corser
and Francis (Q.); Jennings, Lane, Lawson and Perkins
(N.S.W.); Price and Stacey (S.A.). In addition, Messrs.
Holt (Vic.), Marr and McCall (N.S.W.) paired against
the Government. Later when the discussion became
very warm, and the British High Commissioner inter-
vened (as a Senator put it, “he was sent to guide
us”), two or three intimated that they would support
the Government.
By arrangement, Mr. Hawker (S.A.) moved an
‘ amendment in the House postponing the operation
of the Tariff Board recommendation until December
1. This was accepted by the Government, which had
previously declared there would be no compromise.
It was stated in the lobbies at the time that the
Government had a majority for immediate applica-
tion of the duty-free proposal, but accepted Mr.
Hawker’s amendment to save the faces of the
U.A.P. members who had voted against it, the quarrel
in the party-room having been patched up in the
meantime. Now, apparently the industry is to be
thrown overboard. It will mean diverting trade to
British cement manufacturers, who pay 20 p.c.
dividends ; but, then, Mr. F. P. Kneeshaw, a U.A.P.
Leg. Councillor, announces that “the manufacturers
of Australia stand four-square behind the Govern-
ment on the trade-diversion issue.”
Governing the N.T.
The appointment of a new Administrator for the
Northern Territory is now due, but it might easily
be left till after the report of W. P. Payne, the Queens-
land Land Board chairman, has been made next winter.
Nevertheless, it is common talk in Canberra that the
choice has already fallen on Mr. Aubrey Abbott, the
member for Gwydir.
Mr. Abbott is a grazier with a property in
northern N. S. Wales. He represented Gwydir as a
C.P. member for four years, 1925-29, and regained
the seat precariously in 1931. For not quite 11
months, 1928-29, he was Minister for Home and
Territories. During that period, after flying over it,
he became an authority on the Northern Territory.
The N.T. wants no political appointees at its
Residency, and it is idle to say that there are no men
with tropical experience who could fill the bill. Many
years ago the Commonwealth adopted the practice
in Papua of appointing the Chief Justice, who natur-
ally must have intensive local knowledge combined
with aloofness of outlook, as Lieutenant-Governor.
Hubert Murray left the judicial sphere to become
Lieutenant-Governor in 1908. He is still on the job,
and the success of the experiment should hearten the
Government to duplicate it in the N.T.
In Judge Wells, the Government has a compara-
tively young and active man, born and bred in the
Riverina, with a sound knowledge of agricultural
economy and with an independence of spirit which
has made him a good Judge. He is popular through-
out the Territory.
If a local appointment does not appeal to Can-
berra there are men in New Guinea with far greater
experience of administration and the tropics than Mr.
Abbott. Colonel Walstab, the Mandated Territory’s
police superintendent, for instance: trained in Victoria,
then in a bank ; a splendid hand both with whites
and natives.
Self-condemned.
In 1930 a member of the present Government accused
the then Government of having “deliberately broken
the law” by introducing “tariff schedules” without
first submitting them to the Tariff Board. He declared
himself “opposed to tariff measures of a selfish and
provocative kind, calculated to excite retaliation from
foreign countries against Australian primary produc
tion.”
Then—“Hansard,” No. 31, July 16, 1930, pp.
4194-95 —he said:
The Government inflicted positively brutal treatment
on our best friends all over the world. Within a few
months it has made us the most disliked people on
earth. The Government has singled out for harsh treat-
ment those countries whose trade was of the greatest
value to us and has dealt most lightly with those
countries whose trade we could best do without.
Let us consider our trade relations with Belgium,
France, Italy, Germany and Japan
Admittedly, in the countries I have mentioned
the balance of trade is greatly in our favor because
we sell them large quantities of wool; but the honor-
able member for Indi was wrong when he said that
they must buy our wool. While our fine wools may be
indispensable to them, the wool-consuming countries of
the world would have no difficulty in obtaining else-
where than from Australia their requirements of the
coarser wools —the stronger merinos and crossbred
and comeback wools.
Our tariff policy has been such as to invite retaliation
from those countries which buy our wool. Such action
has already been taken by France, and, I believe, by the
Philippines, while we have just received a plain and,
I think, proper ultimatum from Belgium. The balance
of trade in our favor in regard to Belgium is £8,384,000.
France £11,289,000, Germany £7,406,000, Italy £3,776,000
and Japan £8,289,000.
Let me remind honorable members that in an
international sense the only agreement arrived at by
the League of Nations in respect of tariffs is that all
countries shall, if possible, avoid prohibition.
Who took this stand for the maintenance of the
Tariff Board law and the preservation of our good
relations with woolbuying countries? Mr. Gullett,
now “the Minister for Trade Wars.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Paul C.”: The other day a man
dropped dead in Dubbo tN.S.W.). Four
men who were near at the time identi-
fied him as Thomas Moore, a well-
known resident. At the morgue Thomas
Moore’s two sons and a daughter
further identified the deceased. A coffin
was ordered and provided with the
usual particulars inscribed thereon, but
while the family were at the funeral
parlor discussing the final arrangements
the reputedly dead man arrived on the
scene, and the discovery followed that
the corpse was that of Charles Petersen,
a total stranger to the family. When a
man’s own children, besides several
other persons, make an honest error
like this, one wonders what value should
be attached to the “identification” of a
suspect in a police-court line-up.
“Templar”: From the Pickwick
Papers (1836):
Mr. Justice Stareleigh summed up in the
old-established and most approved form.
If Mrs. Bardell was right it was perfectly
clear that Mr. Pickwick was wrong
if they were satisfied that a breach of
promise had been committed they would
find for the plaintiff ; on the other hand,
if it appeared to them that no promise had
been given they would find for the
defendant.
And from the “S. M. Herald”
(10/10/’36):
The Chief Justice directed the jury that
(he burden of proving it was more probable
than not that the deceased killed himself,
meaning to kill himself, was on the de-
fendant. If this were proved by the de-
fendant the plaintiff fails; otherwise the
plaintiff succeeds.
The “old-established and most approved
form” hasn’t altered much in a century.
“Aymac”: The artist who puts the
blackboard and easel into his school-
room is on perfectly safe ground as far
as Westralia is concerned. I confidently
assert that every rural school in that
State, almost every suburban one and
most city ones have blackboard and
easels as well as wall boards.
“Tid’apa”: Manly has a money-
spinner for its hospital in two “wishing
pools”; in two years over £2OOO has
been collected through these receptacles
for the small silver of the benevolently-
disposed. The number of coins totalled
over 400,DOO; it is the honorary job of a
local bank manager to see that the
pool is cleared weekly and the proceeds
credited to the hospital’s account. It
involves some work, too, for the coins
tarnish quickly after a day or so in the
water, and the staff of the bank has to
give them a clean-up before they re-
emerge into circulation.
* * *
“E.K.C.”: Scene, the operating
theatre in a small country hospital,
with the patient slowly but noisily los-
ing consciousness. The sound carried
outside the fence, where a rough and
tired kelpie dozed in the October heat.
Suddenly all lethargy disappeared, his
ears became erect, his body tense —a
sound had reached him that told of
someone he knew in trouble. The gate
was closed, but he took the picket fence
in one leap and bounded up the steps
through the corridors and between
white-sheeted beds. Brushing aside the
swing gauze doors he faced those who
had bound and gagged his master, who
now lay deeply unconscious. With a
snarl of rage he took up his stand at
the foot of the operating table, to the
consternation of the white-coated medico
and his attendants. He was removed
until the operation was finished, but he
resisted so fiercely that a few hours
later a bed in the private ward had two
tenants. One spent the night in it, the
other underneath, and none dared drive
him away.
“Mak": Encountering him with his
shoes in his hand inside a front gate in
Walsh-street, the Melbourne police
arrested him as a suspicious character.
He was a young Irish sailor from South
Africa, and his story was that he had
left his angry colleen in her Punt-road
home after a lovers’ quarrel and stamped
off down to the Yarra. The river soothed
him, so he turned back to put things
right —but went up Walsh-street instead
"Any chance of seeing a corroboree to-night?"
"No, but come across to the wurley and I'll put the radio on for you."
of its parallel, Punt-road. The cops re-
fused to accept his yarn about “sneaking
back to make it up” with the girl and
getting into the. wrong premises. But a
trim brunette arrived in the nick of time
when he was in court for being unlaw-
fully on premises, and deposed that her
lover didn’t really know South Yarra
very well and he had left her after a
quarrel that night. The sailor was con-
victed but immediately released on bond.
“Hamer”: “M.E.D.” (B. 14/10/’36)
asserts that the elephant Jumbo of
whom I wrote was never at the Moore
Park Zoo. The board on the huge
skeleton of the animal, one of the fea-
tures of the main hall of the Australian
Museum (Sydney), mentions that this
particular quadruped was received in the
Gardens in 1884, the gift of the King of
Siam, long before Taronga Park came
into existence ; there is also a photograph
of this Jumbo in the surroundings of
the old grounds. The Wirths’ Circus
Jumbo was quite a different beast —big,
certainly, but nothing to compare with
the Zoo fellow, who was claimed to be
one of the largest in the world.
s*: JjC
“Mako”: One advantage of having a
Minister for Public Works who has had
actual experience of pick-and-shovel
work was demonstrated the other day in
M.L. when the car in which Bob Semple
was travelling was held up by a land-
slide. A few minutes later the former
miner was in the midst of the work-
ing gang doing his share in expert
fashion; after half an hour, mud-
besnattered and smiling, he waved fare-
well to his co-workers and resumed his
journey.
“Ampere”: Most Sydney retail stores
have a much fairer way of dealing with
money found on their premises by em-
ployees than was shown in the Sydney
hostel case (B. 14/10/’36). At the end of
a month, if the amount is unclaimed, the
“find,” big or small, is handed back to
the conscientious employee. I have
known as much as £lO to become the
property of a finder by this method.
“Kerys”: All custodians don’t claim
that cash discovered on their premises
belongs to them, in the absence of any
proof of ownership by the loser. Some
years ago a youngster, sitting in an up-
holstered chair in a Sydney hotel, put
her hand down an opening and drew
out three £1 notes. They were. given
in at the desk. Six months later, when
the child was again staying at the hotel,
she was handed the notes, the proprietor
remarking that, as no owner had
appeared, he regarded them as the
property of the finder.
“Tickety-tick”: The danger of an ex-
telegraphist making use of surreptitious
information gleaned from the machine
is infinitesimal. I am an “ex.” and my
oath of secrecy still holds, but in any
case the stuff I pick up over the wires
only bores me. After a man has been
taking messages for a few years it be-
comes so mechanical he doesn’t take
the least interest in such messages.
“Chow”: Agitation for a tunny-can-
ning industry in Australia leaves me cold.
Tunny has been caught and eaten in the
Mediterranean for ages, but no one there
tackles it except those who will eat even
octopus. I am willing to bet that the
demand for tunny in U.S.A. comes
chiefly from the Levantine and Jew. If
anyone can prove to me that tunny is
regularly served at any first-class Ameri-
can restaurant he is on a pint at The
Bulletin pub next time I come to town.
I have tried tunny, salt and fresh, and
found it like all other big fish of the
kind, coarse, rank and unappetising save
to very hungry men. Recent favorable
tests by a batch of alleged gourmets in
Sydney go for nothing. It was served by
one of Sydney’s leading chefs, who would
be able to make a delectable plat of an
old boot.
JjC >'• '•* 'i'
“Jum Tooit”: Blank cartridges can be
far from innocuous. Some years ago
army manoeuvres in England brought
face to face in a night attack on a wood
a company of the shires and a com-
pany of the Light Infantry, two
regiments between whom an old feud
existed. In the dense darkness the mock
battle rapidly developed into a free-for-
all with rifle-butts, E.T.-handles, fists
and blank ammo. The last resulted in
several cases of severe facial burns and
one of partial loss of eyesight. My share
of the honors of the engagement in-
cluded several bruised ribs and a linger-
ing taste of cordite.
“Runa”: For over half a century visi-
tors to Auckland (M.L.) have been
interested to see, spreading its arms above
the modern city, the ancient windmih
that stands on the hill behind the town.
Recently there were alarming rumors that
the old landmark was to be demolished
to make room for a new fire station,
whereupon the owner, J. Partington, an-
nounced that in his will the windmill is
presented to the city of Auckland for all
time, with surrounding properties, to be
utilised as parkland as the buildings on
them are removed owing to disrepair.
The bequest, roughly estimated at
£lOO,OOO, gives, even apart from its value,
great satisfaction to Auckland, where the
old windmill is regarded with deep ven-
eration as a relic of early days.
$ :.k #
“Uramao”: Maoriland was seriously
perturbed the other day when it was an-
nounced that Scotch distillers were think
ing of cutting off its whisky supplies.
It appears that the rate of exchange has
made the Dominion an unprofitable
market for usquebaugh ; Uncle Sam,
since Prohibition was abolished, is
proving a much more valued customer,
with an almost unlimited capacity for
mountain dew. Scotch distillers hung on
to the ML.,market in the hope that the
Labor Government would alter the
adverse exchange, but Mick Savage s
team has failed them. Cables have been
running hot between the two countries,
but it is not yet known whether the
threatened calamity will be averted.
“Ex-Sahib”: “Who wants women
without make-up” (B. 14/10/’36)? The
query reminds me of Colonel Burrapeg,
who was stationed at Awfulshindi in my
young days. Mrs. B. appeared before
her lord and master one hot and steamy
morning in full warpaint. The colonel
looked at her dazedly for a few moments
and then thundered: “Woman, for the
love of God go and wash that stuff off
your face.” Dutifully, Mrs. B. obeyed,
and when she returned her colonel gazed
at her again and then in a pained voice
said: “Woman, for God’s sake go and
put it on again.”
$ * * *
“Walkabout”: In no outback job have
rates slumped more than in mail con-
tracting ; motor transport spelt the end
of what was once a highly lucrative
enterprise. Contracts that were worth
four figures p.a. 20 years ago are now
down to a price that hardly pays for
motor fuel. I know a western Queens-
land one which is now carried out for
£250 p.a.; in days when prads drew
H.M. mailcoach the job was worth
£1750. Yet, in spite of the thousands
of pounds saved annually by the
P.M.G. since motor transport brought
about price-cutting, postage rates re-
main at an absurdly high figure and a
deaf ear is turned to pleas from the out-
back for telephones. Motor delivery of
mail might have speeded matters up a
bit, but little or no other benefit has
been gained in remote places.
ONLY SEVEN.
“Competition for a free trip to the Coronation
lias become keener and more intense than ever among
Federal Parliamentarians since the announcement
that only seven private members will receive invi -
tations.”
Oh, who’s for a trip to London town
And a coign of vantage for looking down
On the King arrayed in his golden crown
And the other paraphernalia?
At Canberra ’tis a bitter blow
To learn there arc but seven to go
From the rank-and-file to the “little grey isle”
To represent Australia.
Oh, who’s for a ramble across the sea
To a grandly-gorgeous jamboree,
With the little matter of £ s. d.
Presenting no bar whatever?
Who’ll travel across the world and back
When it needn’t cost him a single zack
For a pleasure-plod on the good old nod,
A joy-jaunt on the never?
Buck up, you Reps, and you Senators
Who fain would amble through palace doors
To render homage and loyal devoirs,
Where the cheering crowds grow denser;
Who yearn for a “possie” in stately halls
To catch some gleam of the light that falls
Round the pomp and primp of a Rex el Imp.
And a Fidei Defensor.
Oh, who's for a frolic in London town
To see the King in his golden crown,
With a glance, ’tween whiles, at a Sussex down
Or a glimpse of the lanes of Devon?
Get busy, Senators and Reps.,
But count your chances and watch your steps
While each of you strives for the time of your
lives,
For there's only room for seven.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Jerrick”: “Old-timer’s” yarn (B.
14/10/’36) of the geological “specimen”
sent to the Melbourne Museum which
turned out to be a crudely-baked loaf
of bread reminds me of a story told of
the late Professor David. Some joker had
put a peculiarly-colored piece of broken
brick among specimens which the great
scientist was identifying. In his rapid
fashion David picked up and named one
piece after another until he came to the
bit of brick. He paused for a second,
then: “This, ladies and gentlemen, is a
piece of impertinence.”
“Marsh”: The Australian officer who
insisted that military police should
appear in person to give evidence
against any of his men arrested for in-
discretions while on leave in Cairo (B.
30/9/’36) was Colonel (later Brig.-
General) L. C. Wilson. A lawyer by
profession, Wilson declined to accept
written statements as evidence. The
first batch of “Jacks” required to
appear in person received a lively re-
ception, not from the colonel but from
the mob of newly-arrived remounts
sent to convey them from the railhead
to the desert court. Several, after having
been bumped out of their saddles, re-
fused to mount again, preferring to foot
it through the hot and heavy sand.
Arrests dropped to zero after that ex-
perience.
* * * *
“Brilliant Deeps”: Reference to those
mural portraits on the walls of a Cook-
town pub (B. 14/10/’36) reminds me
that when I first knew Charters Towers
one of the sights no visitor was allowed
to miss was a painting of Mosman-street
on a Saturday night thronged with the
leading gentry of the period. Apart from
the picture’s artistic worth, the portraits
were easily recognisable, and so were
those of the Pretty Ladies shown in con-
versation with most of those celebrities.
The painting was exhibited in a shop
window, and next morning pretty well
every married man whose portrait was
in the work of art was seeking the scalp
of the artist. He stood his ground, how-
ever, but made it clear that for a con-
sideration he would paint out the like-
nesses of aggrieved local residents and
substitute those of others only known by
repute. The picture when I saw it years
after was a bit patchy, but it was in-
teresting to recognise Tom Mcllwraith.
Sam Griffith. Henry Parkes and other
Australians in what one hopes must have
been an unfamiliar environment to them.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: Apropos the Westralian
hamlet of Bullsbrook, a name which Sir
Archiparkill thinks “unsuitable and un-
euphonious,” there is in S.A. a well-
known watercourse in a fertile valley of
the Mount Lofty ranges named “Bull’s
Creek,” about which nobody is at all
sensitive. It commemorates the name
of John Wrathall Bull, a stout British
yeoman who settled in that district in
early pioneering times, and took his part
in public affairs. He claimed to be the
true inventor of what is known as the
Ridley reaper (or stripper), born
1842-43, which revolutionised wheat
harvesting in Australia and holds its
own to this day. South Aus. decided
over 90 years ago that Ridley, a miller
and clever mechanic, was the father of
it, though it seems clear that Bull was
experimenting (if somewhat crudely)
“But you must remember ME? We Were married last night.”
along similar lines. The latter, how-
ever, put up a losing battle for full
recognition all his life. Parliament
(somewhat tardily) voted him, in 1882,
a solatium of £250.
.|. j! ; jJ* *
“Brix”: The famous whisky cargo that
is being conveyed round the World on a
maturing tour had its first mishap at
Auckland (M.L.), where it was necessary
to tranship the precious stuff. In transit
one barrel fell and began to leak. The
rush of wharfies and others to discover
by actual test whether the maturing was
progressing successfully broke all
records. If a narkish foreman had not
appeared on the scene quite a number of
“ Anyhow, WE’RE all right, Alf — We're on the right line!”
Aucklanders might have boasted to their
descendants that they sampled the con-
signment.
"Walky”: The number of hikers who
get lost in various ways suggests that
something ought to be done to obviate
the necessity of other folk having to go
in search of them. This applies particu-
larly to those who wander out into the
suburban bush for a week-end ramble,
and then stay missing until 'planes and
search parties locate them. An element-
ary instruction in map-reading might be
useful, or how to handle a compass, or
even how to find bearings from the sun.
But naturally this sort of thing is never
taught in schools.
“Historical Bloque”: The crew of the
brig Nautilus did not only erect huts
and start sealing operations in Kent Bay
in 1798 (B. 7/10/’36); they were the
first to cultivate the soil of what was
then Van Diemen’s Land. They planted
potatoes, peas and other vegetables and
were rewarded with good crops, apart
from collecting 9000 sealskins during
their first summer there. Charles Bishop,
the commander of the brig and leader
of the venturesome band of sealers, was
afterwards a partner with Bass in his
trading ventures in Bass Strait.
"Pons.”: Some numbskull near Syd-
ney seems to have hit on a dodge new
to me of ridding himself of an unwanted
chattel—to wit, a live Mills bomb. The
ass dumped the thing into a tin in an
outhouse where no member of the house-
hold could avoid getting dangerously
close to it almost daily. Happily the
bomb was unearthed by a council em-
ployee without hurt to himself, and he
rightly reported the find to the local
health inspector. Furbished up and fangs
drawn, the agent of death is now treas-
ured in the Returned Soldiers' Hall. The
inspector has officially expressed the view
that peopie wishing to forget about such
missiles should use a little, more com
monsense.
* * . * *
“Lot”: First prize in the first State
lottery in England was also £SOOO (B.
7/10/’36). That was in Elizabethan
days, but only £3OOO was paid in cash ;
£7OO was plate and the balance “good
tapestry meet for hangings and other
covertures and certain sorts of good
linen cloth.” To encourage the public
to invest the prizes were exhibited at
the house of the Queen’s goldsmith in
Cheapside. That was in 1567 ; the next
lottery was not until 1612 —and the
drawing for that took place in St. Paul’s
Cathedral!
* * * *
“Cape Barren”: The six bottles of
brandy mentioned by “Horsetailer” as
having been found in the sand at Preser-
vation Island, Bass Strait (B. 7/10/’36),
were certainly not a relic of the old
sealing days. A few years ago a young
fisherman saw the necks of two bottles
of brandy sticking out of the sand. He
sold them for a pound apiece. Both
“finds” almost certainly came from the
same source, the Cambridgeshire,
wrecked in 1875. It was then that the
half-castes of Cape
Barren had the time
of their lives. Along
with furniture,
crockery and boxes
of candles, casks
and cases of all
sorts of liquor came
ashore. It was a
great night for the
island. The sal-
vagers soon got to
the stage when they
stove in the casks
that didn’t appeal
to them, heaped up
the boxes of candles
for bonfires (a box
was found in the
sand a few years
ago) and buried the
casks and bottles
that had the right
flavor for a future
jamboree, mostly
forgetting where
they had buried
them. Cape Barren
now has a half-caste
reserve, and no liquor must come within
three miles, but when a hidden cache
does turn up, which is seldom, there is
quite likely to be a beano.
* * * *
“Manana”: Despite “Don Ogcmawsko"
(B. 14/10/’36) 1 persist in my conten-
tion that there can be no such thing as
a “pretender” to a vacant throne—the
very word presupposes that somebody,
rightly or otherwise, is in possession of
it. “D.O.” confuses “pretenders” with
“claimants.” In France and various
other countries where monarchy has
been abolished, those who cherish hopes
that they will be first in line if it should
ever be restored come under the latter
head. A single instance will make the
position clear. After Charles 1. had been
beheaded and a Commonwealth estab-
lished in England, was his son who was
ultimately to be Charles II. ever spoken
of as a pretender? If so, I never heard
of it. He was a claimant—a successful
one in the end. But after James II. had
been deposed, and the throne was once
more occupied, the son and the grand-
son of the discarded monarch became
known in history respectively as the Old
Pretender and the Young Pretender. The
distinction is surely obvious.
“Runa”: I was in a Sydney plant-
shop the other day when an elderly
woman arrived to order a tree described
on the catalogue as “New Zealand
Christmas Bush.” This is probably the
pohutukawa, whose gnarled roots and
scarlet blossoms are a feature of northern
M.L. coastal scenery. The lady departed
after being assured by the young counter-
hand that “any odd corner” would be a
suitable place to plant the tree, her in-
clinations, I gathered, running to a small
nook beside her chimney. A big surprise
is in store for somebody when that
Christmas “bush” really gets going. The
pohutukawa is a tree, and its enormous
growth of root and branch is quite likely
to undermine any chimney and seriously
menace a house.
“Centurion”: A recent reference to
Montagu's scathing comment on the
physique in the war years of some of the
British troops from industrial areas is
more than borne out by a new recruiting
scheme to be tried by the Imperial War
Office. Finding that the percentage of
rejections among those offering for army
service is over 60 per cent., the W.O. has
decided to rope in the unfit for physical
training instead of passing them out. It
is hoped that regular food, training and
exercise will bring the standard up to re-
quirements in a few months, when the
candidates will be passed into the ranks.
The scheme, first tried by Germany with
her labor and compulsory-training camps,
should work as well in Britain. Similar
methods following on the German pat-
tern would prove a godsend to many of
the youth of this country at present on
the dole and faced with a blank future.
IN THE LIONS’ DEN.
“Witness said that he was awakened in the early
hours of the morning by a man singing, eating fish
and chips, and using bad language on his (the
constable’s) verandah. He was forced to dress and
arrest the accused.” —Sydney police court item.
'Twas in the “wee sma’ hoors,” when long and
level
Snores on the bedroom atmosphere impinge.
When cats, returning from some rooftree revel,
Streak ’cross the street or on the doorstep
cringe,
He felt a sudden urge to play the devil,
An overmast’ring yearning for a “binge."
His boon companions having left him lone,
He organised a “beano” on his own.
What though he lacked the glasses and the
trenchers
And all the other outfit that equips.
Fellows like you and me for such adventures, ,
He had a paper bag of fish and chips,
A bottle, too, I’ll bet, of “modest quenchers”
Or, possibly, a flask of fiery nips,
And on his tongue the tuneful melodies
Supposed to correspond to things like these.
He might have trolled, in heaps of open spaces,
His Bacchanalian ditties to the sky,
Where ringing baritones and booming basses
Disturb no sleeper’s equanimity.
But why, of all imaginable places,
Should he have lighted on —ah, tell me
why—
The scene to stage his orgy where a cop,
Some few yards off, was humming like a top.
Buoyed up by beer and prawns he made excur-
sion
Into a cage where sleeping lions hid;
In pure lightheartedness, for sheer diversion,
Without the tremor of a limb or lid,
He dared more peril than, beneath coercion.
That good old Scripture figure, Daniel, did,
Only to find that lions, with all their pulls,
Are less aggressive animals than bulls.
Though not a bit Bohemian or “arty.”
Detached betimes from some hilarious throng,
He had a mind to give himself a party,
With all the frills that thereunto belong,
To munch his fish-shop scran with gusto hearty
And raise his voice in “oh-be-joyful” song.
No grave offence, perhaps. But still it’s plain
He’ll never serenade a John again.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


WforlG
10/tar W
WI884
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
.
CIGARETTE
T H I S
GENERATION
O F
THE
T I P P E
POLITICAL POINTS
“Australia has begun to lisp in national
numbers,” said W. M. Hughes as Federal
Attorney-General when moving the
second reading of the referendum bills
in 1911. It has not passed the “lisp-
ing” stage if the Lyons constitutional bill
is an indication of the strength of national
sentiment. Perhaps the truth is that the
Government has not passed that stage.
Menzies was a State-righter before
entering national politics, and has not
yet learned to think nationally. If he
has his way the exercise of Common-
wealth marketing powers will be depen-
dent upon State action. He wants to
spend £lOO,OOO so that the States may
legrope the Commonwealth!
Some U.A.P. members are bitterly dis-
appointed with the Government’s pro-
posal for “constitutional reform.” They
recall that an attempt to get enlarged in-
dustrial powers for the Commonwealth
was promised by the P.M. in his 1931
policy speech. In the party room this
week Lyons is to be reminded of this
promise. Prospects that anything will
come of the reminder are encourag-
ing.
Pity something can’t be done to pre-
vent heroic exploits being associated with
advertising which leaves a nasty taste
in the mouth. The pleasure with which
Australians heard Miss Batten over the
air on the night of her arrival in Sydney
was marred by her closing remarks,
which degenerated into a puff for flapper-
papers. Evidently the young woman
felt that the rubbish was not in keeping
with the occasion. She palpably hesitated
before mouthing the vulgar stuff.
The Freetrade “S. M. Herald” has
come out for the abolition of inter-State
Freetrade where marketing is concerned,
on the ground that “something must' be
done to avert chaos in the dried fruits
and butter industries, perhaps others,
too.” It is three months since the Privy
Council pronounced the inter-State Free-
trade clause valid. That meant that all
Commonwealth “orderly - marketing”
legislation was invalid ; but where is the
chaos?
It is now acknowledged that no work
of the slightest importance was done at
the latest lot of League meetings, and
that the idle chatter probably accelerated
the dissolution of the show. Australia
had a delegation there as usual, and a
photographer took a picture of the local
secretary of the League of Nations
Union, which demanded more and more
“sanctions,” beaming on Litvinoff. The
Australian taxpayer is paying what it
cost to let Litvinoff pull this innocent’s
leg.
To Sydney’s milk investigator (the
second in three, years), the Milk Board
secretary admitted that “the retail cream
trade in Sydney stores has been captured
by tinned cream from Victoria.” He
didn’t give the reason, but consumers
know it as well as retailers. Though
cream vat's are, in specified circumstances,
carried free on Government railways,
which have accumulated losses amount-
ing to £28,178,000 in 10 years, the retail
price of cream delivered in the bottle is
7d. per quarter-pint.
Victoria is finding, as N.S.W. has done,
that its agricultural scientists are dis-
satisfied with the salaries it pays them —
they average rather less than the pay of
a wharf laborer in good standing—and
are moving on to other States with less
ungenerous views. Oddly enough, Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales have had more
Country-party government than the
States to which the scientists go. It
doesn't say much for their Country
parties.
For the first three months of 1936-37.
State expenditure in N. S. Wales exceeded
revenue by £1,183,800; but Stevens, it
seems, isn't worrying. “The trend” he
finds “healthy” and the “budgetary
position sound,” and he is sure “our
early forecasts will be realised.” There
was only one forecast, and it was that
the Budget would be balanced this
financial year.
In a thin and noisy House Litt. Groom
flipped Forde across the wrist with a
folded sheet of tissue paper, as it were,
for saying he was fed up with Gullett’s
trade war and interminable negotiations
that get nowhere. “There was not a
single constructive suggestion in Mr.
Forde’s speech,” Litt. bleated. Then he
switched on to the subject of Scullin’s
plea for practical recognition of Aus-
tralian writers on the breadline, and sug-
gested that “more portraits of Australian
writers should be included in the national
portrait gallery being established at
Canberra.” Now, that is constructive.
Those Victorian boss-Cockies who
have been against the “open go,” on
the ground that if gives members and
THIS SPANISH COMPLAINT IS CATCHING.
“N. S. Wales Premier Stevens, meeting Parliament after his tour in foreign parts, was
threatened with a censure motion by Mr. J.C. Ross, the U.A.P. M.L.A. for Kogarah, who
said he expected support from other U.A.P. members.”
electors too much power, are now
asserting that it cost their group the
Benalla seat. There were four C.P. can-
didates and an Independent, Cook. In
the fourth count' Cleary got most of
Ryan’s preferences ; in the fifth, 1696 Hill
votes went to Cook and 802 to Cleary,
giving Cook the seat by 363 votes.
The boss-Cockies’ yarn is that if the
field had been reduced to a pre-selected
Cleary and Cook, Cleary would have
won. But surely in that case Cook would
have got the same proportion of the
votes given to Hill.
M. P. Cleary, whose defeat in the
Benalla by-election staggered the Vic.
Country party, was a brother of the late
member, and so like him that one was
often mistaken for the other. In the. last
Assembly by-election in N. S. Wales, a
son of the late member, sporting the
official brand, was easily beaten by an
“unendorsed” man. Both incidents sug-
gest that electors have gone cold on
efforts—now a regular thing—to keep
the billet in the family.
A representative newspaper has gone
into the facts of what it calls “the un-
happy Australo-Japanese trade war.”
Reviewing trade figures for seven years,
it finds that Australia had a favorable
balance of £45,541,000, and concludes:
Japan can justly claim to be one of Aus-
tralia’s very best customers.
Analysing sales in Australia of British
and Japanese cotton and rayon fabrics,
silk tissues, pottery and porcelain, it
selects as “the most striking feature” the
“great reduction in the total value of
sales rather than any great increase in
the Japanese figures.” In effect,
Australia’s tariff policy can only aggra-
vate the very Japanese characteristics it
seems to fear.
Australian newspaper? No ; British —the
London “Economist.”
Defending his trip to Britain (the
second in three years or so), with private
secretary, Premier Forgan Smith says it
didn’t cost nearly as much as that of
Premier Stevens, who was also away
seven months. Foghorn put in for £2103 ;
Stevens was allowed £3545 to the end of
June (he now declares that the total cost,
self and two officers, was £2369). The.
man from Pairthshire went' abroad at
the instance of the sugar interest to
attend a conference that was never held,
and the sugar interest should pay the
£2103, and will be dashed mean if it
doesn’t. The taxpayers had to find the
salaries.
Mr. Brown, of the Post Office, is back
from Maoriland, where he discovered
that “public ’phone calls” —twopence
here—“cost Id.” Mr. Brown feels
sure “the agreeably good service
must cost more than that figure
to operate.” A little inquiry would have
satisfied him one way or the other, but
Mr. Brown does not seem to have
bothered. Mr. Brown might also
have discovered with the minimum of
inquiry that Maoriland has penny post-
age (his own concern charges 2d.); but
here again he seems to have had no thirst
for information.
In Tasmania there is to be “full re-
storation of salaries of public servants,
members and Ministers,” and this, it is
explained, “will absorb about half of
the increase in the special Common-
wealth grant,” which goes up from
£450,000 to £600,000. Cheery news for
Mr. Stevens, whose Government em-
ployees are at him for “full restoration,”
and whose State provides two-fifths of
the special grant.
Roosevelt and Landon have entered on
the last fortnight of their Presidential
campaign. Each candidate is hurling
masses of figures at the dazed electorate.
Roosevelt seems to be the most skilful
hurler, having had greater experience
and being accustomed to deal with bigger
battalions. He had a deficit of
$4,763,841,600 in .1935-1936, and reck-
oned on going $1,098,388,700 to the bad
in 1936-1937, but the voting of the
veterans’ bonus necessitated a “revision"
of this estimate. It was “revised” to
$2,096,996,300. Of that $1,090,000,000
has to be borrowed. Such figures must
make our loan-drunks feel dizzy.
Since May 22 a lot of the “news"
about wool that has found its way into
print has been a mixture of untruths
and half-truths. A few weeks ago the
Australian public was given to under-
stand that there had been a slump in
Japan’s purchases of South African wool
because South African wool did not suit
its machinery. Now we learn from
London that
Japan continues to dominate the market
at the South African sales, taking all
available lots at prices averaging 2d. to
24d. above Australian levels.
So another “whopper” goes down the
wind, but no doubt others will be
invented.
Undeterred by warning words from
the only legal member, Arthur McElhone,
the three. 40-hour-week aldermen on Syd-
ney’s County Council are going on with
their popularity-hunting plan for in-
troducing the nostrum in the sheltered
trade of municipal electricity-supply,
McElhone pointed out that local-gov-
ernment law is so strict that the donors
might be called upon to shoulder the
cost of the gift, reckoned at £50,000 p.a.
On the same day Strathfield Council
called upon Lloyd, M.L.A., the two-jobs
chairman, and Gardiner, another County
Councillor unknown outside his suburb,
to rescind the resolution on the ground
that if the 40-hour week comes it should
come as national policy. Strathfield
stands out from other N.S.W. local bodies
for 205.-in-the-pound efficiency.
R. J. Hawkes, president of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, is grievously
lacking in respect for Canberra’s trade-
war and hush-hush policies:
We in commercial circles feel that the
very greatest blunder has been made in the
conduct of the business of the nation.
Those who have been given the charge of
these negotiations lack experience; they
certainly show a lamentable ignorance of
the necessity for understanding the way
■in which trade is managed. We hear a
lot about the necessity of balancing trade.
' It cannot be done.
Canberra feels that this is flat blasphemy
and not to be endured.
A fact of which the U.S. Republicans
are making much is that since Roose-
velt took office on March 4, 1933, the
old Confederate States have received in
Federal aid and credit $1,000,000,000
more than the Civil War and three years
of reconstruction cost them. In Wash-
ington loans, grants, bounties and the
like $4,000,000,000 has been distributed
among them. Four years of disunion
campaigns and three years of recon-
struction ran away with $3,000,000,000.
From Brisbane:
It was disclosed in the annual report of the
Queensland Taxation Department that, while
collections of income tax in 1934-35 had gone
up £381,000, the number of taxpayers had
fallen from 66,912 to 38,317. Presently it was
explained that the taxgatherers had “concen-
trated on issuing the larger assessments be-
fore the end of the year, to collect the bulk
of the taxes as early as possible.” It may be
all right for the Taxation Department to work
in with the Treasury like this, but it throws
the tables of classifications of taxpayers out
of gear, obviously affects the recorded cost of
collection and considerably reduces the statisti-
cal value of the annual report. In effect, the
small fry were neglected because the Govern-
ment wished to reduce the apparent gap be-
tween income and expenditure. When a tax-
payer has a grievance and goes to the Gov-
ernment about it the invariable yarn is that the
Government ’ never, never interferes with the
Taxation Department.


VIGOR ISN’T EVERYTHING.
“Mis. Helen Hick., in a parting meessage to Australian assciates, said they play the game in to. ladylike a ta»hion and .hould put mote vigor into it.”


MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
<omz-io>3:
US
X.
5
o
N
L
T
D
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide. Perth — E.S.C.A., Brisbane
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death '!
Can you look forward with' certainty to a nest-egg in your old age 7 If the answer
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; P. J. Smith-
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and, Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEM
Had Victorian politicians thought as
much of the. horse as they do of the
owner, they would have all been on
Northwind for the Caulfield Cup. The
owner is Harold Edward Cohen, solicitor,
soldier, public man and prince of good
fellows. An A.I.F. colonel (6th Brigade
Field Artillery), he was John Dailey’s
commanding officer. Dailey, The Bulle-
tin’s associate editor, now 13 months
dead, was rarely moved to enthusiasm ;
but mention Colonel Cohen and he
would say “A born soldier, and as game
as they make them.” C. T. Godby
bought Northwind for Cohen, who has
been a Victorian Minister (Argyle was
Premier) and president of Melbourne’s
Boy Scouts, Constitutional Club, Legacy
Club and Rotary.
A. C. C. Holtz, stated to be retiring,
has been with Melbourne “Argus” since
1894, has been g.m. since 1920 and chair-
man of the Australian Newspapers Con-
ference since it was founded in 1925. He
takes a busy interest in Rotary—for a
year he was governor of the movement’s
“international” —and in Toe H, of which
he also has served as chairman. His pri-
vate preoccupations are mostly domestic.
He is an enthusiastic gardener and stamp
collector.
Dead in Fiji, Ratu Pobe Tili Seniloli,
head chief, and descendant of King
Thakambau, under whose sovereignty the,
first “constitutional” Government spon-
sored by Britain was formed in 1871.
The chief was one of the two native
members who for years sat in the
Executive Council. He had an English
legal education, was a good cricketer—
he was with the first Fijian team to come
to Australia (1908) —and a loyal sup-
porter of Britain. The new “King” is a
minor.
George McEwin’s face is well known
in Adelaide, where he is a lead-
ing solicitor. He was a power in the
GEORGE McEWIN, of Adelaide.
Adelaide City Council for years, and a
busy worker on the council’s committees.
He is one of the city’s best executive
chairmen.
H. W. Osborne slips quietly out of
managing the Western District (Vic.) Co-
operative Association afier 32 years’
service which put him among the three
or four founders of modern dairy organ-
isation in the Commonwealth. 111-health
is the reason. He went into the co-opera-
tive movement while “Argus” representa-
tive in Warrnambool, and, after a spell
as secretary of the Warrnambool Shire
Council, took his present job when the
firm was in a small way in 1904. He
pushed its selling all over the Common-
wealth and to London, and became one
of the first members of the Dairy Pro-
duce Export Board. His only son served
with the 58th Battalion.
David Shearer, dead in Adelaide at 85,
could claim to have been the founder cf
Australia’s motor industry. He was not
the first Australian to own a car, but he
built the first one, a steam vehicle which
used to puff round Adelaide in 1900
with its owner perched on its heights
like an ambitious chamois on a crag. He
did not attempt to commercialise his
effort, with which he used to travel from
Mannum to Adelaide, about 120 miles,
at a speed of about 15 m.p.h. maximum.
C. A. M. Derham is part of Swallow
and Ariells, one of the oldest manufac-
tufing firms in
Australia —it was
founded by his
maternal grand-
father, Thomas
Swallow, in 1854.
C.A.M. has been
with the firm for
31 years, is now a
director and
general manager
and did much to
develop S. and A.’s
export trade. In
the war he was a
captain and won
an M.C. He takes
a great interest in
his old school,
Melbourne Gram-
mar, sits on its
council and is
president of its
Old Boys’ Society.
He is also chair-
man of the house
DERHAM, of Swallow and Ariells.
committee of the Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital and a Chamber of Manufac-
tures vice-president.
N.S.W. and inter-State sailing men
learned with honest regret of the passing
of John Roche, one of the founders of
the Pittwater (N.S.W.) annual regatta, of
which he was hon. sec. for 24 years.
Under his hand the affair became one
of the most popular shows of the kind
in Australia, renowned for its picnic as
well as its sporting aspect'. John Roche’s
delightful personality had a great deal
to do with this. In youth he suffered
from the illness that made a cripple of
President Roosevelt, but, like the Presi-
dent, he never let it master his sunny
nature.
R. J. Cassidy, a Queensland Rhodes
scholar, holds a unique distinction
among winners of the coveted award.
He has just been promoted wingr
commander in the R.F.C., the equiva-
lent of a lieutenant-colonel. He is to
serve at Cranwell, where T. E. Lawrence
was a familiar figure for years.
“El V.”: Those who dealt with S. H.
Prior used to marvel at his intensive know-
ledge of Federal politics, but few knew
how far back into the roots of Federal
history his personal experience went.
Turning over the pages of an old scrap-
book, I came on a photograph of the
pressmen who attended the Adelaide
Federal Convention of 1897. I discovered
him there, a very upright, very deter-
mined, intelligent-looking youth in the
back fow He represented t he “Barrier
Miner,” which he helped to found, and
his was about the only country paper
which found it worth while to s en a
man to report the event. And he was
so Httle k £ own jn , hose days that th c
SOUV enir-makers spelt his name with a
“y” instead of an “i” in it.
Exit a , Port McLeay (S . A .), an old
, . whose lineaee was amone the
- - ent • Australia—Nvmbulda
Unai 86 widow of James Unaipon,
)( A f n •i n „• n „ nd erand .
intellieent third generation
" N ar ri„veri she wfsSeatedatTmis-
woman married accordin to Christian
• p . M , nr 0 her her
sciemist son owed mu y ' h for lhe ’early
start she gave his education,
j be y branch of the Empire Parlia-
mentary Association is to send three
delegates to the S.A. centenary celebra-
lions—Kenneth Lindsay, a bachelor Civil
Lord of the Admiralty who is M.P. lor
a Kilmarnock seat and who for several
years was director of Voluntary Migra-
tion Societies at the Dominions Office ;
Tom Smith, Labor M.P., a hardy York-
shire Miners’ Union official; and Howard
D’Egville, the secretary,
Leslie Hay Simpson, at the time of
writing lost to human ken with Brian
Abbot in a 16ft. motor skiff somewhere
between Lord
Howe Island and
Sydney, was, like
his brother the
barrister, trained
for the law, which
he practises in
Sydney as a solici-
tor in between
theatrical and
motion-picture in-
terludes. He played
Ned Kelly in
“When the Kellys
Rode,” shot in the
N. S. Wales Blue
Mountains, and
had to learn
to ride to do
it. The film was
later banned. Simp-
son’s friends know
the tall and well-
built fellow as a
venturesome spirit
and jolly good com-
pany. He helped form the Mastercraft
Film Co., Sydney, to which he is
solicitor, and while at Lord Howe was
engaged in the production of a picture
by another concern.
Big David (“Darby”) Riordan, whose
Federal electorate of Kennedy (Q.)
covered a third of Queensland, was only
48 when he died a few days ago. He
was a likeable, simple fellow whose
policy speech when he first contested the
Burke State seat in 1918 became a
classic: “I don’t know anything about
politics. I don’t care anything about
'em. All I know is that if you vote for
Darby you’re all on the pig’s back.”
By the time he retired to contest Kennedy
at the Federal elections in 1929, the
simplicity had become more polished.
But it was one of Darby’s failings as a
politician that he could never work up
any rancor against the enemy. After
he met S. M. Bruce, when the latter had
been cast out of Flinders, Darby said:
“Well, what’s the matter with him, any-
way? He wears better pants than mine,
but he’s a man, isn’t he? I wouldn’t,
mind voting for him.” No wandering
swagman who came within Darby’s
reach went without a feed, no new
member ever wanted for a friend while
Darby was about.
Horner’s drawing of S'Ernest, baronet
brother of former acting-Chief Justice
Harvey, of N. S. Wales, shows him with
his visiting-Australia-on-holiday expres-
sion. As a deputy-governor, he carried
most of the executive responsibility of the
HARVEY, of the Bank of England.
Bank of England during the depression,
while Montagu Norman carried out a re-
organisation of policy. Another brother,
formerly Archdeacon of Halifax (Eng.),
is on the trip with him.
Australia has made great strides in
amateur photography, and nobody has
been more persistent than F. W. Thiel,
of Brisbane, who has been steadily im-
proving his technique for the last genera-
tion. Two of his pictures have just been
accepted by the British Royal Photo-
graphic Society Exhibition.
The new secretary of the S.A. Police
Department, John Evans, interrupted his
civil service career in 1915 to enlist with
the 24th. After he had earned a com-
mission he was transferred to the 54th
and was wounded at Villers Bret. He
was with the Taxation Department till
ten years, ago.
John Brownlee, going to N’York to
join the Metropolitan Opera Co., began
life as an accountant, but a trained voice
brought him into the Ballarat Eisteddfod
competitions, and Melba, hearing him,
helped him to go to Europe to study with
Dinh Gilly. He afterwards established
himself as one of the Old World’s best-
known baritones, toured Australia with
Melba’s last opera company and married
her god-daughter. He is an active man,
specially fond of golf and tennis.
Sydney advertising-man Arthur N.
White, as honorary organiser, reports net
proceeds to date of over £2700 from a
“Diggers’ Leap-Year Ball Appeal”--
made in all States on behalf of T.B. sol-
diers and their dependants. An audited
account shows outgo at a refreshingly
low figure. White’s organising involved
over 4000 miles of travelling in three
States —motoring is now his principal
recreation, though in other days he was
keenly interested in cricket and football,
and is still well known where sportsmen
gather. For his charity work A.N. was
made a member of the Royal Empire
Society. He established his advertising
agency in 1908.


2
m
y
y
y
y
i
o
it
©
W
m
*3
©
ll
5r
1
<>>
£>
1
m.
&
&
V.
V
m
&?
m
§IF
that is
CARBON
ropr
X 1 mV Xj JLj
carbon can be
flinty 02
When carbon is light
enough to blow out
of the exhaust, better
piston seal saves you
money on fuel
YOU will get better piston seal and greater fuel
economy if your engine is lubricated with Texaco
Motor Oil. Clean and clear, it is absolutely free from
tars, waxes and gum-forming elements which cause
piston rings to stick in their grooves, thus permitting
blow-by, lost compression and fuel wastage.
Texaco has the lowest carbon deposit of any well-known
Motor Oil—so light and fluffy that it can be blown out
with the exhaust or wiped off with a rag. Thus, Texaco
maintains a much more constant power output as well
as a cooler, quieter, more efficient motor.
But, prove these facts for yourself. YOUR OWN CAR
is the most convincing of ALL testing plants. DRAIN
AND REFILL TO-DAY WITH—
10-0-FP6
TEXACO MOTOR OIL
THE TEXAS COMPANY IS THE WORLD'S LARGEST INDEPENDENT OIL ORGANISATION


How Much Time
can you give to your friend's affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time—your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. K, Knox, K. de L. Cudmore,
R. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, .M.inag
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 0/- and 8 - per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may lie reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872,
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at-London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
•I line, Profit, Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
J 02<i .. 512,249 03 p.o. = 320,000 1,270,183
3 927 .. 355,207 45 „ „ 360,000 1,265,390
1928 .. 233,855 22.5,, „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 . . 388,997 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,528,242
1930 . . 316,930 32.5,, ~ 260,000 1,585,178
1931 .. 80,421 7.5„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
1932 .. 152,50 S 30 ~ ~ SOiOOO 1,078,402
1933 .. 270,199 15 ~ ~ 120,000 1,834,001
1934 . . 200,884 25 ~ ~ 200,000 1,895,485
1935 . . 355,302 30 ~ 240,000 2,010,787
1930 . . 519,903 02.5,, ~ 500,000 2,030,090
Only once has the co. shown more profit.
That was for the 1925 term, when
£521,590 was netted. Lead then averaged
£35 45., silver 2s. 11.6 d. and zinc £34 9s.
Id. Average prices for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts were lead
£l6 4s. 5d., silver 2s. 2.4 d. and zinc £l5
3s. lid. Meanwhile costs have been
almost cut in halves, thanks mainly to
the quickening and cheapening of pro-
duction and recoveries, following instal-
lation of new plant, including a jointly-
owned central power station, and the
sinking and equipping of a new shaft,
. etc. The work, which began in 1928 and
was completed early in 1935, cost about
£750,000, and was paid for out of sur-
plus earnings, current and accumulated.
The shareholders, miners and others,
therefore, have much for which to thank
the care and skill of the management
and technical staff. Although lead
dropped as low as £9 2s. 6d. a ton in
London in June, 1932, the co. has never
failed to earn a profit or pay a div.
during the last half-dozen difficult years.
Depreciation of the currency also helped
to swell the co.’s earnings in Australian
notes, though it has bumped up costs for
all who have to buy London credits, in-
cluding the Government, which means
the taxpayer.
The spring in last year’s net earnings
was due mainly to a rise of £4 18s. sd.
in the average London price of lead.
Also, sales of the metal exceeded pro-
duction by 11,078 tons, reducing stocks
on hand to 18,078 tons when the books
closed —the figure was 38,409 tons at
the end of June, 1934. The co. sells its
zinc concentrates to Electrolytic Zinc
and Imperial Smelting Corp. under con-
tract at a figure based on the London
price of spelter, which averaged £l5 3s.
lid. a ton, up £2 6s. 4d. The average
price of silver was 2s. 2.4 d., down 1.4 d.
After paying all exes, and providing for
taxation (£92,000), royalties (£26,000) and
depreciation (£33,000), the board figured
the net return from mining £131,878
better than for the previous term:
Net profit— 1932. 1935. 1936.
Mining- .. .. £10,370 £255,869 £387,747
Investments . . . . 106,855 86,641 98,450
£117,225 £342,510 £486,197
Investments, which figure at £1,442,052,
including £511,975 on deposit, turned in
an extra £11,809. Including a net un-
explained addition of £33,706 to re-
serves (expenditure on new plant, etc.,
has practically ceased), the net return
from all sources was £164,601 better at
£519,903, or approximately 13s. per
share. The div. was lifted from 6s. to
10s. per share, and a jubilee bonus of
2s. 6d. was added, making 12s. 6d. in
all.
Of the 386,100 tons of crudes raised
(up 19,140 tons), a shade over 70 p.c.
came from between the 1070 ft. and
1480ft'. levels:
1925. 1935. 1936.
Crudes raised. .257,879 tons 366,960 tons 386,100 tons
Extraction .. 275. 6.5 d. 17s. 5.93. 19s. I,i3d.
Development .. 2s. 5.0 d. lis. ‘7.53. Is. 11. Id.
Treatment .. 13s. 11.5 d. ss. 11.63. ss. 6.63.
Cost per ton 435. 11.03. 255. 1.03. 265. 7.03.
The increase of Is. 7.4 d. per ton in ex-
traction costs was due to the new wage
agreement, under which a bonus of
2s. 6d. a week is added to the minimum
award rates for every pound by which
the London price of lead exceeds £l6 in
terms of Australian currency. Notwith-
standing a reduction under the new labor
agreement of 12 hours a week in operat-
ing time of the treatment plant, costs in
this section were sd. a ton lower, thanks
to the new flotation unit. All-in costs,
up Is. 6d. a ton, were 17s. 4d. lower than
in 1925.
The metal content of the lead and
zinc concentrates and percentage of re-
covery compare as follows:
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
. - J 31,063 tons. 1,015,6940 z. 34,176 tons.
{ 87.1 p.c. 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
OQ „ S 51,568 tons. 2,221,2230 z. 39,286 tons.
} 95.1 p.c. 89.7 p.c. 86.1 p.c.
( 52,048 tons. 2,101,2650 z. 37,948 tons,
j 95.6 p.c. 91.4 p.c. 86.5 p.c.
( 53,465 tons. 2,297,9690 z. 41,840 tons.
1 95.4 p.c. 90.6 p.c. 87.7 p.c.
f 50,296 tons. 1,899,33207.. 37,524 tons.
’ j 94.9 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 86.5 p.c.
The shrinkage in last year’s figures is
due to the lower assay value of crudes
—13.7 p.c. lead, 5.50 z. silver and 11.2
p.c. zinc as against 15.3 p.c. lead, 6.90 z.
silver and 13 p.c. zinc in 1935.
Ore reserves are put at 3,250,000 tons,
but there is a lot of payable stuff,
already proved by the diamond-drill,
outside the measured area, and the de-
posit continues underfoot at the deep-
est levels.
The immediate outlook favors an even
better showing at next balance. The
London price of lead, which averaged
£l5 4s. 3d. in June, was over £lB a ton
last week-end, with demand, both locally
and overseas, firm.
Following announcement of the
board’s intention to split the pound
shares into five-shilling shares, the price
of the scrip shot up from £6 4s. to
£7 2s. in the market. At the higher
figure the immediate return is 7 p.c. on
a 50 p.c. div. basis.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
, -Dividends : —,
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Prof.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7J p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£•£>£> £, £,
1920. .104,789 9000 9,911 10 p.c. = 50,000 261,928
Premiums on shares, £25,000 .. .. 286,928
1927. .106,885 9000 13,330 10 p.c. = 52,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ „ 59,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ ~42,000 364,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 ~ „ 24,000 362,712
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 ~ ~ 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 ~ ~48,000 399,428
1934. .109,163 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 454,868
1936. .146,148- 9000 18,750 10 ~ ~60,000 513,266
Staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. .. 503,266
First prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
If has been a remarkable achievement.
After trading at the corner of George
and Barrack streets since 1838, the co.
transferred the major portion of its busi-
ness in November, 1927, to the new 11-
storeyed premises which it had built
fronting Elizabeth, Market and Castle-
reagh streets, overlooking Hyde Park
and opposite St. James (city railway)
station. Then slump brought a precipi-
tous fall of nearly 58 p.c. in net earnings
over the two years to the close of ac-
counts in 1931, when the ord. div. (if
used to be a steady 10 p.c.) dropped to
4 p.c. and reserves were tapped lor
£1777 to pay it. However, the w'omen
liked the new store, and the management
lost no time in successfully dealing with
its problems. With one eye on family
budgets and the other on capricious
fashion, which means shrewd buying, it
pursued a vigorous sales offensive, and
turnover bounded along as conditions
generally improved. Also, the co. made
more of its merchandise in its own fac-
tory, which had to be enlarged ; it thus
gathered additional wholesale as well
as retail profits.
During the last term, more people
came to both the co.’s stores —the old
George-street premises, where the co.
trades chiefly in men’s wear, groceries
and radio goods, were rebuilt a year or
so ago—and there was a further sub-
stantial increase in turnover. After pro-
viding for taxation, depreciation, etc.,
net earnings sprang £24,371, reaching
£146,148, the best yet. It was enough
to pay both lots of pref. divs. and show
19.7 p.c. on the £600,000 of ord. capi-
tal as against 15.6, 13.5, 10.9, 8.7, 3.7,
7.6 and 15.1 p.c. back to 1929. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., £lO.OOO was sent to
the staff fund, and the balance lifted
reserves to £503,266.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion of the business-:
1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital . . c 1,000,000 * 1,000,000 £1,000,000
Deposits .. .. 14,001 43,016 39,60.
Overdraft .. .. 3,685 92.034
Sundry creditors.. 159,217 ISB,OOI 219,927
Mortgages, etc. .. 452,475 321,333 251,042
Total liabilities. £026,296 £550,095 £002,040
Fixed assets .. 1,296,630 1,220,971 1.279.912
Stocks .. .. 459,305 402,763 488,.>74
Book debts .. 221,643 349,113 300,022
Investments, cash, etc. 37,404 21,991 57,041
To repay £3379 of deposits, clip £70,291
off the mortgage, add £58,941 to the
book value of fixed assets (due mainly
to completion of the George-street store),
£25,811 to stocks, £10,909 to debtors’ bal-
ances and £35,050 to investments, etc., the
board went to its bankers for an extra
£88,349 and increased the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors by £31,866.
Despite the year’s addition to fixed
assets, the more or less liquid surplus
(£302,997) was £25,225 stronger than at
the previous balance.
Since the. close of accounts, the co.
bought the block at the corner of Market
and Castlereagh streets, diagonally oppo-
site the present store —the price was re-
puted to be £365,000. The intention
is to erect immediately a five- or
six-storeyed building thereon, thus pro-
viding extra trading facilities and re-
lieving congestion in the main store.
To meet the outlay those, on the ord.
register at Jan. 11 next will be offered
200,000 new £1 ords. at 30s. each, one
for three. When all the money on that
lot is in, reserves will benefit by £lOO,OOO
of share premiums, and paid capital wiil
be £1,200,000 in 150,000 first 6 p.c. and
'250,000 second 1\ p.c. cum. prefs. and
800,000 ords. On that lot, last year’s net
earnings were sufficient to pay the pref.
divs. and show 14.8 p.c. on the ords.
• The market prices the ords at 48s. 6d.,
equal to 445. lOd. after exercising the
rights to the new issue. At the lower
figure the return is 4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The firsts at 275. and the
seconds at 30s. 3d. return 4.4 p.c. and 4.9
p.c. respectively. Including the new
issue, the net tangible cover is £ll 7s. Id.
firsts, £6 4s. 3d. seconds and £1 12s. 7d.
ords.
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards
Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 51,811 2 p.c. = 46,730 5081 3814
Written off, £1065 4879
1932.. 60,069 2J p.c. = 63,071 7881
Unexplained reductions, £1129 .. 9010
1933.. 38,133 \\ p.c. = '30,499 7634 1376
Reserves.
1934. . 88,112 34 „ „ 85,397 2715 1339
1935.. 123,581 5 „ „ 121,996 1585 2924
Tax refund, £2332 .. . . .. 5256
1936.. 147,107 6 p.c. = 146,395 712 5968
To mitigate the effects of aggressive
competition, reduce overhead and gain
advantages on the buying side, half a
dozen of the leading drug houses in the
Commonwealth decided to get together
toward the end of 1929, and this big
holding co. was formed for the purpose.
The operating concerns in the group are:
A. M. Bickford and Sons (Adelaide
and Brisbane); Elliotts and Australian
Drug (Sydney); Felton, Grimwade and
Duerdins (Melbourne); Felton, Grimwade
Dental Co. (Melbourne); Felton, Grim-
wade and Bickford (Perth); Taylors,
Elliotts and Australian Drug (Brisbane,
Rockhampton and Townsville).
The holding co. has £2,439,912 of capital
to feed. At June 30 its shareholdings
figured at £2,438,778, or £413,000-odd
more than their net tangible book value ;
other assets were advances to subsi-
diaries, £27,783 ; divs. declared by subsi-
diaries but not paid, £84,020 ; cash, £292 ;
shares in Drug Houses of Australia
Export, Ltd., £2509 —this export co. was
formed last year to do the London buy-
ing for the group.
Slump upset original calculations,
properties proved to be a burden, and
divs. thus far have been moderate. Still,
they are on the up-grade, the rate being
lifted a point, making it 6 p.c., for the
last term, and prospects are brighter than
at any time since the merger.
The combined net earnings of the
operating cos., which gather manufac-
turing as well as distributing profits, have
stepped up in this way:
,—Dividends — N
Net Drug- To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. Houses. serves, serves.*
x £ £ £ £
1931.. 47,718 GOOO 56,709 1 * 9 > 9^
Unexplained reduction, £15,707 -• 174,24 ‘
1032.. 67,568 6000 63,921 171,894
Unexplained addition, £B3O .. •• 172,724
1933.. 61,613 6000 63,971 1,642 174,366
Unexplained reduction, £9515.. •• 164,50 l
1934.. 118,224 6000 94,747 17.477 182,328
Unexplained addition, £2334.. •• 184,662
1935.. 155.,360 6000 131,055 18,305 202,967
Unexplained addition, £4635 . . • • 207,602
1936.. 184,060 6000 154,141 23,919 231,521
*After deducting goodwill, £146,380.
During the last term sales continued to
increase, there was a better return from
properties, thanks to the letting of Duer-
din and Sainsbury’s former premises in
Melbourne, and savings followed the
centralisation of overseas buying. After
setting aside an extra £4852 for taxation,
the net result was £28,700 better at 10.7
p.c. on the aggregate capital of
£1,719,016, of which £75,000, carrying a
cumulative 8 p.c., is not owned by the
co. Deducting this pref. 'div. and the
holding co.'s own exes. (£7033, including
provision for taxation), enough remained
to show 7 p.c. on Drug Houses’
£2,439,912 of capital as against 5.8 p.c.
and 4.3 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
Movements in the aggregate balance-
sheet figures of the subsidiaries suggest
brisker trading:
OI’KHATINtV COS.’ AUOIIROATK FIOURES.
1931. 1933. .1935. 1936.
£ £ £ £
Pa i d
capitalf. . 1,626,297 1,771,797 1.794.016 1,794,016
Overdrafts 451,452 259,470 84,863 94,821
Deposits.. 109,774 199,623 201,713 183,763
Sun dr v
creditors. 454,581 174,878 209,991* 241,607*
Freehold,
leasehold,
plant . . 706,887 747,990 738,204 726,755
Investments 260,605 250,215 264,811 282,758
Government
securities,
etc. . . 12,050 2,400 2.400 2,400
Stock .. 836,094 727.137 689,220 762.017
Debtors .. 1,011,015 879,847 875,916 860,423
Cash .. 6,258 1,495 1,712 1,933
* Excluding inter-company debts,
t Includes £75,000 not owned by holding 00.
To carry an extra £72,797 of stocks,
increase investments (shares in manufac-
turing and other wholly or partly con-
trolled cos.) by £17,947 and repay
£17,950 of deposits, £9958 was added to
the overdraft, £31,616 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, and debtors
were reduced by £15,493. Fixed assets
were down £11,449. The improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,106,582, excluding investments) was
£33,901.
At 30s. 6d. the holding co.’s pound
shares return 3.9 p.c. The investor who
looks for 4.6 p.c. on his money counts
on a 7 p.c. distribution.
George Farmer, Ltd.
r~ Dividends =•,
Net Pref. Towards Re—
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves, serves.
1926.. 27,184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. .. 7,473
1927.. 25,414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 10 „ ~14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 „ ~12,600 543 14,564
1930.. 15,456 4800 10 „ „ 9,000 1,656 16,220
1931.. 14,962 4800 10 ~ „ 9,000 1,162 17,382
1932.. 12,503 4800 8 „ „ 7,200 503 17,885
1933.. 8,211 4800 6 „ „ 5,400 15,896
1934.. 12,377 4800 7 „ „ 6,300 1,277 17,173
1935.. 5,859 4800 24,, „ 2,250 15,982
1936.. 4,682 4800 Nil _ 15,864
That is the first time the ords. have been
shown an empty basket since the co.
took over George Farmer’s ham- and
bacon-curing business at Ballarat in 1919 ;
and at the moment it is difficult to say
exactly what the future holds for the
co. At the start two 10 p.c. divs. were
followed by one of 15 p.c., another ot‘
25 p.c. and three of 20 p.c. to the close
of accounts in 1926. From this point, at
which the fatness was larded with a one-
for-two gift issue, earnings have con-
sistently slipped, owing to the persistent
growth of competition and slump.
Though the latter has practically passed,
competition, which means bidding up for
pigs as well as price-cutting on the sell-
ing side, remains, and overhead is diffi-
cult to further restrain.
During the last term, the business is
reported to have held well, but, owing to
the high price of pigs (due partly to large
exports of frozen pork to England) and
to price-cutting on the selling side, the
co. was barely able to cover costs. Gross
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


INSURE WITH
rjrn
1 ilo
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company ■—
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
Directors :
R. Rawns'.ey Moss - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
H
m
What Profit do A.M.P.
Policies Show?
I put my money into an A.M.P. policy to mature when
i I am 50, what profit will it show me?” asked a man of
an A.M.P. adviser who had called on him and his wife.
That was a fair question.
Taking past experience as a guide to what the Society’s future
Bonuses will be, we can say that, if he be 24 (at next birthday)
and take out an A.M.P. policy for £5OO payable when he is
50, AND DIE WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS, his estate will
get £5OO for his investment of £ 1 7/1 9/2. That is good profit;
indeed, it might be called an extraordinary profit.
If he live ten years, and then die, his estate (judging by past
experience) should get £598, and that is mighty good profit on
an investment of ten times £l7/19/2, i.e., £179. If he live
to 50 he should get £783 for a total investment of £467 spread
over 26 years, and he will have been ASSURED ALL THE
TIME, his estate standing to benefit tremendously had he died
at any time during the intervening years.
It is because the Society gives its members this sort of invest-
ment, PLUS PEACE OF MIND and SECURITY all down the
years, that nearly half of the assurance it issued last year was
to existing members anxious to INCREASE their policies.
What of it, reader? You have only to say the word and an
experienced adviser will be sent to talk this PROFITABLE
business over with you. Ring or write before the day is out.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
£. A, ELLIOTT, H A.. A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A,,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Positions Vacant.
FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL
BUREAU.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of Organiser and permanent Manager to a
Bureau of Company and Financial Statistics.
Applications must be accompanied by copies
of credentials, which will be treated in the
strictest confidence. A request for a personal
interview will not be entertained.
Accountancy degrees and journalistic experi-
ence are indicated but not necessarily essential.
The accepted applicant will be expected to
organise and conduct a bureau of information
of the most up-to-date and informative char-
acter.
Reply in first instance to —
‘BUREAU.”
Box No. 1489 DD.
G.P.0., Sydney.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* . * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBR1TE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are bed
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
TAYMER MILL.—For crushing fine, Grinding and
Amalgamating. Light, Robust and Portable. Output
25 tons and upwards per diem, depending on class
of ore. Approximate life of wearing parts, 10,000
tons. Weight, 4 tons. Can be erected by two men
in three days. Apply Taymer Mill, 293 Queen
Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES!
...
<%*
• K
«Sj .
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. -J-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street. Sydney.
earnings from trading (£16,230) were £257
lighter, and the return from investments
(£1579) was down £232, making the slip
in gross earnings from all sources
(£17,809) £489. Exes. (£13,127) were up
£687, leaving the net result £1176 lighter
at £4682, or £llB less than the pref. div.
called for. After paying the pref. div.,
there was enough to show 1.1 p.c. on ord.
capital in the previous term, as against
8.4, 3.7, 8.5, 11.2, 11.8, 14.6 and 18.3 p.c.
back to 1928.
One way out might be for the co. to
raise its own pigs, an idea which the
board has under consideration at the
moment. The co. has ample funds avail-
able to finance, such a project:
1929. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £ 150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 6,829 2,013 2,309 4,108
Premises . . 50,248 45,597 44.457 44,457
Plant, etc. .. 30,875 29,539 28,707 28,139
Stocks . . 40,767 18,197 20,180 20,981
Book debts .. 36,609 26,896 22,709 24,271
Cash, etc. .. 22,694 53,701 57,738 55,226
Cash, etc., includes £39,002 on deposit
and in the till, and Consols at cost,
£15,113. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£96,370) was £1948 lighter than at
the previous balance.
The market prices the ords. at 17s. 6d.
or thereabouts as against par a year ago.
The prefs. at 275. 3d. return 5.8 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £2 15s. Bd. prefs.
and 235. 6d. ords.
New Guinea Alluvials (paid capital,
£15,000) is to wind up. The co., incor-
porated in March, 1933, holds some
48,000 f.-p. shares in Gold Mines of
Papua, which took over certain of its
prospecting areas on Woodlark and
Misima islands. To finance erection of
a 3000-ton-a-month treatment plant, the
latter co. recently offered its shareholders
240,000 new ss. shares, one for one.
After exercising its rights, N.G.A. ex-
pects to hand those on the register four
f.-p. ss. shares and four ss. shares paid
to 6d. in G.M. of Papua for every five
of its own shares. In May last G.M. of
Papua reckoned it had 250,000 tons of
465. oxidised ore (gold at £8 an ounce)
developed on its Misima Island holding,
with possibly a further 150,000 tons,
largely sulphide, above the drainage
tunnel. At March 31, N.G.A. had a
p. and 1. debit of £1099. Shareholdings,
the only asset, figured for £13,945 ; there
was £44 coming to outsiders.
*** . *
To Sept. 30 last. Sunshine Gold (N.G.)
won 480 oz. gold, worth £3156, from
59,426 c.y., including overburden re-
moved when opening out the paddock.
Depth of overburden and pay gravel
sluiced averaged 33ft., leaving an addi-
tional 33ft., from which higher values
are expected, still to treat in the present
paddock. It is hoped to keep costs down
to 7d. a yard. Drilling has proved
2,131,800 c.y., worth £401,133, on the
co.’s consolidated Watut River claims.
A hydro-electric generating plant and a
second elevator are on the field ; there
is no water shortage.
After overhauling Crocodile Creek’s
property at Bouldercombe (Q.) on behalf
of Melbourne underwriters, W. George,
g.m. Adelong Gold Estates, says the co.
has 70 acres, containing about £200,000
worth of gold, that could be profitably
recovered with a dredge costing about
£30,000. Before further backing the ven-
ture, many shareholders would like to
know more about costs, recoveries and
the nature and depth of the ground. The
board claims that a weekly turnover of
5000 c.y. would be profitable. The
present dredge, which has been treating
from 2000 c.y. to 3000 c.y.,' averaging
about sgr. gold, weekly, has been un-
able to make ends meet.
HS
N.Q. Airways, Ltd., intends to provide
air transport to the Portland Roads field,
inland from Weymouth Bay, and to Coen
and the Blue Mountains field, Cape York
Peninsula. Transport has always been
a drawback in these localities. At Port-
land Roads mining activities are held up
owing to the lack of crushing facilities.
The only battery on the field is owned
by John Gordon, and is fully occupied
treating ore from his own mine, which
has already yielded some £lB,OOO worth
of gold. The Government is expected to
erect a mill presently.
* * * *
An American mining engineer has
been examining the old Etheridge (N.Q.)
field with a view to operations by a gold
flotation system. Georgetown Gold
Mines is profitably developing low-grade
shows there. Over the last three months
the co. has treated a total 2273 tons for
7260 z. gold and 3450 z. silver, together
valued at £3115. The Oaks State bat-
tery is also being kept busy. Over the
last three months it has put through
2635 tons for 3900 z. gold, worth £2590.
Since first worked in the early ’seventies,
the Etheridge-Oaks field has yielded
more than £2,500,000 worth of gold.
* * 4! *
For the year to June 30, Morning
Star (G.M.A.) Mines, Wood’s Point, the
largest gold-producer in Vic., showed a
profit of £55,235, of which £lO,OOO was
handed to shareholders in two divs. of
fed. each. When the books closed, more
or less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£34,937. The 5630 tons of ore treated,
which yielded 10,3070 z. gold, came
almost' wholly from Burns’s floor. In
addition, 91 tons concentrates, contain-
ing 3860 z. gold, was shipped. Owing to
reconstruction of the plant, now near-
ing completion (estimated cost £20,000,
to be met out of .accumulated profits),
and to cessation of operations, follow-
ing the breakdown of the old air-com-
pressor in August, further divs. will de-
pend upon results following resumption
of operations. From the close of ac-
counts to Aug. 18, the co. treated 847 tons
for 17230 z. bullion, estimated to con-
tain 13630 z. gold, and shipped 29 tons
concentrates for realisation. After
Burns’s floor, where about 4500 tons
awaits extraction, has been stoped out,
the. future of the property will depend
upon development of new ore-bodies. At
the moment, interest centres chiefly in a
rise from No. 9 level to Whitelaw’s
floor, where the diamond-drill has dis-
closed gold-bearing ore.
sN * 4=
Wiluna’s smelting plant has kicked off.
It cost £85,000, and is the first of its kind
to be used on a large scale in Westralia.
Ore from the adjoining Moonlight group,
operated by Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment, in which Wiluna Co. holds a
large interest, is also being smelted.
*
Ora Banda Amalgamated is getting
good values on No. 3 level in Hall’s
lease, Ora Banda (W.A.). Despite the
limited widths of the ore-bodies, the co.
is feeling more comfortable than for
some time. A year or two ago it was
reckoned by the market to be one of the
best Westralian goldmining ventures out-
side Kalgoorlie. Erratic ore-bodies and
high costs spoiled prospects, and the ss.
shares, which rose as high as 30s. in the
market, now fetch 4s. 6d. or thereabouts.
* * * *
Commonwealth Mining and Finance
has bought the Aladdin, at Nannine, the
Atlas, near Wubin (W.A.), and the Her-
cules, at Pine Creek (N.T.). The lot
cost 350,000 fully-paid Commonwealth
Mining and Finance shares. The board
says market conditions did not justify
flotation of three new cos., with
a guaranteed aggregate cash capital of
not less than £450,000 (sterling), as set
out in the option agreements, etc.
* * * *
Yellowdine (W.A.) is now firmly es-
tablished as a gold-producer. Value of
output since milling began in May is
£68,696 (Aust.), of which £20,735 repre-
sents September’s contribution. The
high-grade residues are being stacked for
treatment .by a decantation plant, ex-
pected to start in January.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas, which hopes
to turn its block at Yellowdine (W.A.) to
profitable account, is getting a little
revenue from the second string to its bow
at Coolgardie. A parcel of 100 tons
recently treated at Kalgoorlie averaged
22dwt. A further 50 tons is being
crushed. So far, the shoot has proved to
be small, short and high grade.
* * * *
Halley’s Comet, the Marble Bar (W.A.)
gold find recently optioned by the De
Bernales group, is hailed as another
Yellowdine. Gold worth five figures
has lately been extracted, and the value
of ore in sight is reckoned to run well
into six figures. The show is stated to
be in new ground, about five miles from
Marble Bar township.
# * * *
“O.B.”: Paringa has broadcast an-
other report of developments, values,
future prospects and probable capacity
of proposed treatment plant. At best it
is a 6dwt. mine, nothing more.
•J* «t*
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.P. and M.V.X.: A long-term speculation,
and guesses as to what returns bondholders
might get aren’t worth much at the moment.
.... H.M.: (1) A company formed on the prin-
ciple that there is no contract between it and
its members in respect of calls on its shares
or contributions towards discharge of debts of
the co. (2) No. (3) None. Statutory disability
for non-payment of calls is absolute forfeiture
of shares. (4) Roughly, yes... .L.M.N.: (l)
Yes, but they need watching. (2) Very specu-
lative. .. .A.W.: Present price liberally discounts
future.... T.D.: (1) Yes. (2) No. (3) Yes.


- dUP * j
1
h*
••'• . jSftj .
,y '''
m
J k; Hs
r-’W v '&**&£** “ "
v v'/- ; JV'
. ... .. .. y sl l •'.
%s*r
w|
Ik.
What is “Tread-Bum”?
7
Heat is the tyre's greatest enemy! Summer
driving wears out treads quicker than Winter
driving. The deadly combination of hot
roads, hot atmosphere, higher Summer r
speeds and modern cars and driving con-
ditions produces heat—HEAT—HEAT that
burns and chafes down the tread faster.
IhHI
to? e
an*
THAT'S "TREAD-BURN." At a speed of 50
miles an hour your tread wears down TWICE
as fast as at 25 miles per hour! At a tempera-
ture of 90 degrees your tread wears down
THREE TIMES as fast as at a temperature of
50 degrees!!
You can't control the day's temperature, BUT
you can still get your rightful mileage
for the“ G-3” BEATS "TREAD-BURN."
R FFfiTTTPPQ
o oiarsuuu I r lai uklo
THAT MAKE THE "G- 3 " THE
FINEST tyre, money can buy
HEAT-RESISTING COMPOUND throughout entire con-
struction. This reduces the destructive frictional heat
caused by to-day's high speeds.
"G-3" TREAD flatter and wider, for cooler run-
ning and longer mileage.
ALL-WEATHER TREAD best-proved non-skid tread
in the world, made still thicker and heavier more
rubber.
4 "THE GOODYEAR MARGIN OF SAFETY" for quick-
est stopping. The "G-3" has tougher rubber, slotted
deeper to give many more miles of non-skid safety.
5 "SUPERTWIST CORD" in every ply to provide
maximum protection against bruises and blowouts.
Exclusive Goodyear feature.
6 STRICTEST CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS in the
industry —in materials, workmanship, balance and
inspection. „■ •
»
4
5-Cl9-36
MA D E IN AUSTRALIA


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.J.R.”: Our rabbit-skin buyer went
bung, and his last issue of cheques
came back marked in the usual sad
way. One of the boys went in to
see the storekeeper, taking along
a cheque received from the same
buyer in June. “I hear you’ve got a
crook cheque of mine here,” he said to
the storekeeper. “Well, here’s another
one ; but you can cash this —it’s 0.K.”
The storekeeper inspected it and de-
clined. “Why not?” asked the trapper.
“It’s all right. Dammit all, I got it two
months before the cow went broke!”
* * * *
“C.C.C.”: I’ve seen all the rain signs,
from a ring around the moon to the
frog that croaks in a tank, and the extent
of their accuracy doesn’t vary much—
they’re nearly all wrong. But here’s one
I’ll gamble on. Out on the Boulia road
(W.Q.) one beautifully fine evening, a
sudden shower of gossamer came drift-
ing out of the deep-blue sky. In a few
minutes it had covered the country like
snow; fences and telephone lines
stretched as strips of white for miles, as
the stuff blew out straight before a gentle
breeze. An old-timer cocked an eye at
it and prophesied rain within 24 hours.
It never looked less like rain, and he
got no credence whatever. But next
morning found banks of heavy cloud
rolling up, and by that evening falls of
up to four inches had occurred. It’s
happened two or three times since, and
has not missed yet.
* * * *
“C.J.R.”: Sydney “Sun,” reporting
that a 12-year-old boy at Murrurundi
(N.S.W.) caught 160 eagles, some of
which measured 7ft. from tip to tip,
added more sensationally: “They could
have carried off full-grown weak sheep
and lambs.” The eagle isn’t hatched yet
that can carry off a full-grown sheep, no
matter how weak. It takes an eagle
about five minutes of solid flapping to
lift himself off level ground, without the
added encumbrance of a sheep—or a
lamb either. I have seen ’em lift a lamb
off a hillside—after having a feed off it,
and when I say a feed I mean a feed.
I should say a full-grown bunny is as
much as the biggest wedgetail likes to
handle.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Beware of this one! He
came to our district a few months ago
and worked for a farmer ; every month
he drew his pay in the form of a cheque
and cashed it in the town, choosing a
different pub or store each time. Then
one Saturday he came in shortly after
noon and made a round of the stores
and pubs, pitching the same tale at each
place. “I’ve chucked the job,” he said.
“And it’s too late for me to cash my pay
cheque at the bank. Will you do it for
me?” They all obliged him, and he
caught the train that night. On Monday
when the cheques were presented, one
was found to be genuine and the rest
forgeries.
* * * *
“Bimbo”: What about low milk-pro-
duction records for a change? I know
a herd of 18 cows that are being milked
for a total of under two gallons per
day for the whole herd. Try to picture
a herd where a pint pannikin could be
used for a milking bucket. And this
isn’t in drought country, but in a district
with a good rainfall. Their daily ration
is one handful of oaten straw per head.
* * * *
“Billy See”: In south-west Groperland
they have a superstition that emu-eggs
are unlucky. Choom, unaware of this,
brought along a couple as love-offerings
to the barmaid at the Jarrah Jostlers’
Rest. H@be shuddered slightly and
touched wood. Just then someone yelled
for Choom to shift his bike from the
horse-trough, and while he was out Long
Ben the teamster came in. “Hullo,” he
said, “emu-eggs! Don’t yer know they’re
unlucky?” and with his whip-handle he
shattered the shells. Then Choom re-
turned. Inside five seconds he and Long
Ben were having a ding-dong go. Choom
was no slouch with his fists, but he
couldn’t stand against Ben’s reach and
tough hide. After about live minutes
he was willing to breast the bar and
accept a drink at Ben’s expense as a
peace-offering. “Don’t take it hard,”
Hebe pleaded. “Ben didn’t do it out of
malice. But emu-eggs are unlucky.”
“Dead unlucky, mate,” Long Ben echoed.
Choom tenderly felt his front teeth and
surveyed his reflection in the bar mirror.
“Well, mister, if YOU cant make ’im laugh Well 'ave t ’ change the hadjective."
“By goorn; you’re right, choom,” he
agreed ; “emu-eggs are unlucky.”
“Laetitia”: To see the Torres Strait
abo. dugong hunting is to see the craft
of the hunter developed to the highest'
degree. The dugong is semi-blind, but
has such acute hearing that the slightest
sound foreign to the usual splash of the
sea is enough to send him scuttling
fathoms down. With the spearman bear-
ing the wap, or harpoon with detachable
barb, poised like an image in black
ebony on the jib boom, the crazy cutter
is manoeuvred noiselessly up to the feed-
ing and unsuspecting quarry. For a
split second the spearman remains im-
mobile ; then with a mighty lunge the
wap is thrust home, the native lending
impetus to the blow by hurling himself
bodily over with the thrust, as there are
three inches of stout hide to be pierced.
A mad rush of swirling foam and the
quarry dives, but the line attached to the
barb tautens, and with a block and
tackle the 4cwt. catch is hove on board.
* * * *
“Script”: Add to other misrepresen-
tations by artists stockmen shown with
leggings and whips. Not one in ten
wears leggings, and only about half
carry whips. I have yet to see a picture
of a stockman with his spurs turned —
that is, with the rowels over his instep.
If that appeared in print people wouldn't
know it. Yet every second rider will
turn his spurs almost as soon as he dis-
mounts —to save them wearing out by
dragging in the earth.
* * * *
“Kali”: The octopus regards clam meat
as a delicacy, and I have often seen the
repulsive-looking beastie straddled over
an open clam, tearing away at the ex-
posed flesh. Perhaps the clam had been
dead before the octopus arrived, for I
cannot believe that even the biggest oc-
topus could exert sufficient pull to pre-
vent the bivalve closing its shell. Malay
tradition credits the octo. with a lot
of reasoning power, and is positive that
the octopus never visits the clam beds
without carrying a solid lump of coral
in one of its tentacles. Catching an open
clam unawares the octopus is supposed
to slip the coral between the shells to
prevent them closing before he himself
slips in for a feed. Another enemy of
the clam lying in a foot of water is the
conger; this chap slides like lightning
into the safety of the clam’s interior and
there voraciously rips the flesh to pieces.
* * * *
“V.A.G.”: “Marrar” (B. 26/8/’36) is
pulling his own leg by using muffled
oars in search of wily black bream at
night. Fish are deaf! The benefit of
sneaking on to feeding grounds is to
minimise vibration, to which fish are
extremely sensitive.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Zoo and museum authori-
ties should get in touch with owners of
fish traps in North Queensland. The
variety of marine life caught in the wire-
netting “boxes” of these traps is sur-
prisingly great. Small crocodiles and
sharks, turtles, slingarees, jellyfish and a
multitude of crabs are additions to the
regular harvest of fish. Frequently one
or the other of these trap-owners speaks
of having caught a fish unlike any known
variety, of a jewfish with the mouth of
a salmon, a grunter unlike any other
grunter met with, a freak kingfish, a
3001 b. groper and mighty eels. Most
of the fishermen would collect and for-
ward specimens (“for love”) if told what
was required and taught how to pre-
serve and pack for shipment. The reef
fishermen, too, have golden opportuni-
ties for collecting specimens and scien-
tific data. What material a trained ob-
server could amass in a season’s ser-
vice on board one of these launches!
* * * *
“Dominic”: The dog that took pos-
session of “L.M.’s” car (B. 2/9/’36) had
a cobber in Perth recently. Emerging
from an office in St. George’s-terrace a
citizen found a huge Alsatian in posses-
sion of his recently acquired car. No-
thing would persuade the dog to leave,
and the disgruntled car-owner was just
contemplating an appeal to the police
when another, and apologetic, cit.
appeared on the scene. Without trouble
he induced the growling Alsatian to sur-
render possession. It was his dog, and
the car had recently been his, too. Traded
in and resold to its present owner it
had been identified by the dog, who had
resumed his one-time job of keeping off
car thieves during his owner’s absence.
“Punch Ball”: Billy the pet ram used
to wander about the homestead as if he
owned the station. One day the black-
smith hung a dray-hub on a chain from
a rafter in the cart shed a couple of
feet from the ground. Billy strolled up
to investigate. After smelling the thing
over, he gave it a bump with his head
and turned to go. The hub swung away,
returned and smacked Billy’s rump. Wil-
liam bounded as to the crack of a
starter’s pistol, and drove straight at it
with his forehead. That was the start
of the game. Half an hour or so later
Billy was bleeding from the base of
both horns ; his tongue was lolling as
he panted ; his flanks were heaving, but
he still had fire in his eyes, and his
breeding alone kept him coming to the
attack. Then a fool dog butted in and
barked his derision at the show. That
gave Billy the chance for which he’d
been looking: he chased the dog, leav-
ing the hub still swinging ; but he didn’t
go near the shed again until the hub
had been taken to do its job.
* * * *
“V.A.G.”: Not only predatory birds
can be blamed for the slaughter of bees.
I have seen frogs waiting where bees
water and pouncing on them with the
same alacrity that they can display when
Joe Blake makes his appearance.
sH H 5 *
“Creel”: A fish mystery of the Great
Barrier Reef is the “ Chinaman” fish
(Paradicichthys venanatus), which during
the months of June, July and August Is
unfit for human consumption ; its flesh
is then poisonous, and can cause severe
muscular and abdominal pains, which
may persist for days. No fatal cases
have been recorded. During the rest' of
the year the fish is delicious eating.
Various explanations have been offered ;
the most feasible is that during those
months it feeds on some noxious variety
of seaweed. A fine game fish, the
“Chinaman” attains a length of 20in.
and a weight of 251 b.
**. * *
“Bimbo”: What is the greatest
number of posts ever split from one
tree? Harry Johns, of Traralgon (Vic.),
claims a record for his recent feat in
splitting 393 posts from one yellow box
tree on the farm of G. Russell, of Glen-
garry.
* * * *
“Bluealla”: The suggestion to intro-
duce the mongoose into Australia to
deal with the rabbit and snake nuisances
recalls that the experiment was once
actually tried. In ’B4 a dozen healthy
specimens were introduced into the
Murray country near Renmark (S.A.).
The squatters welcomed them, but
rabbit-trappers, overcome by profes-
sional jealousy, wiped the invaders out.
Some were also taken to Fiji, but after
successfully cleaning up the snakes they
turned on some of the domestic animals.
That was the finish of the mongoose.
EXILE.
London —a warm, wet night—a taxi —then
Shining streets, blurred lights, a revolving
door,
And bare-backed women and tail-coated men
Dancing a quickstep on the shining floor.
Good music here, good food and sparkling
wine.
And silver dishes and waiters, and wine-
fired wit;
In bush daydreams I often thus would dine;
And now I’m here, a living part of it.
Yes, now I’m here, but suddenly because
Of a scent, a sound, a laugh, l am back
there.
And now that stream seems clearer than it was,
Those mountains bluer than they really, were.
I glimpse a track around a dense-bushed hill,
A little cottage with a rose-wreathed door —•
Then the “Blue Danube” sounds and I’m here
still,
But not so merry as I was before.
Yes, there I dreamed of here, and here of
there:
In this strange world was it not ever so?
There I saw lights, flowers, waiters, women
fair;
And here I hear the winds through great
gums blow.
LONDON.
ALAN D. MICKLE.


“Nordbo”: Fishing gear and methods
used in one district are unknown in an-
other; a few hundred miles away. “In
Japoon [N.Q.],” said a Japoonite on a
visit to Cairns, “we’ve more initiative
than you fellers. When things are slack
on the grounds we lower an alarm clock
into the water and wait with a .32. When
the alarm goes off and the fish, yawning,
come up to see the time we shoot ’em.”
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: When Dad returned
from a city holiday, the new hand men-
tioned that seven calves had been born
while he was absent. “And I managed
to earmark all of them,” he added
proudly. “But th’ earmarkers were
locked up,” Dad replied with some con-
cern. “I know they were,” said the lad;
“but Maori Jack’s always borrowing
here, so I rode over and got the loan of
his from young Moko.”
* * * *
Henry G. Lamond: Idriess makes
Kidman refer to the wearing out of
saddles. How long does a saddle last?
When I went to Warbreccan (W.Q.) as
head overseer, I got a new saddle, hand-
made, of good quality. I used it for
four years. It was counter-lined and
otherwise repaired once a year and had
to stand the treatment I handed out to it.
I touched an average of 200 miles a
week—-which is big riding. The saddle,
was rolled on, bucked over on, went
through flooded rivers, did a bit of scrub
dashing, and on three different occasions
did 36 hours without a spell. At the
end of four years it had spread to blazes
and become a tub. For a boundary-
rider, or to run up the milkers, it was
good for a few more years with annual
replenishments. As a saddle it had
ceased to exist. My estimate:
Four years’ rough use is a saddle’s
limit.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: If ironbark is the
king of hardwoods, then Westralian
wodgil must be the ace. Scrub-rolling
up near Mukinbudin, in the nor’-eastern
wheatbe.lt, I struck an old stump —and
stopped. Tried an angle pull, which
drew sparks as it glided off. An old
sandalwood puller said the stump was
there when he started 40 years ago, but
it was still as hard as ever. The natives
use wodgil for their friction firelighters.
* * * *
“Sparfe Surplice”: I was mixed up with
prayers for rain only once. Things
were pretty bad on the station: cattle
and horses were dying, goats were
battling and the game was nearly to a
bubble. A couple of members of the
Cloth came along and the son of the
house agreed to help their cause if they
would pray for rain. They did.
Forty-eight hours later there was about
7in. in one fall! Fences were washed
away, cattle were drowned. A month
or so later one of the revs., see-
ing the. son in town, asked what he
thought of the efficacy of the job. The
young fellow replied he had just been
in to see his solicitor, but owing to the
fact that there was no actual agreement
in writing the legal man regretted that
no action for damages could be taken.
* * * *
“A. Propos”: “Sliding Seat” (B.
23/9/’36) might fall off a horse for want
of three weeks’ practice, but to my mind
that would apply only to a man who had
been breaking-in for merry-go-rounds or
perhaps doing a bit of riding on a guest-
house hack. Since I started breaking-in
horses back in ’93 on Mt. Enniskillen, on
the Barcoo, it has never been my experi-
ence or observation that lack of a bit
of riding practice made much difference
to a real horseman. As an instance, I
saw Jack Dempsey ride in the A.I.F. in
Liverpool camp, and again ride one
of the worst horses that I ever saw
in El Mahdi, Egypt, seven weeks later.
He could have held a playing-card on the
stirrups with his feet. Captain C. S. Bun-
dock can bear this out; so can E. J.
Brady.
* * * *
“Solentes”: “Laetitia” (B. 30/9/’36)
avers that the porpoise is immune from
the spears of the Torres Strait islanders.
“What, did he get aWay with y'?”
“No, sir—not exactly !”
Mebbe so ; but I can assure that scribe
that hundreds are harpooned annually
for baiting crayfish pots operated by
white Australians off the north coast of
N.S.W. Radley and Sons, working 100
pots off Port' Macquarie, rely almost
entirely on porpoises for the large quan-
tity of pot-bait necessary. A steel-tipped,
wooden-hafted spear, about 10 feet long,
is thrown by hand from the bow of the
launch, and in three casts out of four
the carcass is hauled aboard and cut up.
The flesh of the porpoise, incidentally, is
palatable when fresh.
“Bill ain't got the temp'r'ment for a
fireman. He should never have
left that job at the iceworks."
“San Luis Rey”: In the spring of any
normal year the desert sandstone capping
of the Dividing Range in Central Queens-
land is a scene of great beauty. Acres
and acres of heather from 2ft. to sft.
high, a mass of purple and red flowers,
with the turpentine and old man spini-
fex out in ear like a crop of millet, but
of a deeper coloring, verging almost to
reddish purple. Sprays of white flowers
swing where the bignonia vines hang
down from the rich yellow trunks of the
painted-bark trees, and down in the
creek valleys the bauhinias are coming
out pink-tipped, soon to turn to scarlet
as they flower and seed. Around Jericho
now spring is making of the landscape
a perfect picture.
* * * *
“Quareef”: I once tried crow —tried
is the word. Brother and I were young-
sters gratifying a whim of testing the
edibility of outback birds. Beginning
with the minah, we gnawed up-
ward to the kitehawk. Then
came Kelly. An indulgent
mother braised it for a day, but
it was too tough for mastication.
She boiled it for another day
with like result, and Dad
groused: “I’ll kill a sheep be-
fore we die of starvation.”
Thinking it would eventually
simmer to tenderness, Mother
pushed it to the back of the
stove. It was forgotten, and the
pot boiled dry. “I’m short of
leather,” grinned Dad; “It’ll
half-sole my bluchers.” Sawing
it down the centre he so used
it. Then he went droving for
three weeks, and when he re-
turned feathers had grown on
hose crow soles. “Like hair,
they must grow after death,”
said Mum. An hour later I
darted inside yelling, “Dad’s
boots are flapping about the
yard!” An incredulous family
rushed out in time to see them
circling above the chicken-pen.
Brother and I released a volley
of stones, and the startled boots
soared away over the gums of
Stephens Creek. Dad disbe-
lieved, threatening to use the
belt if we did not “ante-up his
boots.” Next day an angry
neighbor called. Flinging two shot-
riddled boots at Dad’s feet he roared:
“Here! Keep yer blasted flyin’ boots
’ome! Caught ’em picking at the eyes
o’ my lambs!” Dad believed him.
* * * *
“Vest”: Who told “H.S.G.” (B.
7/10/’36) that bushmen don’t wear
waistcoats? Let him take a look round
the Warrego district in Queensland.
There every cocky is draped with a
“weskit,” held together by a sterling
silver suspension chain, anchored in one
pocket by a turnip watch, and by a
jackknife and a .35 bullet in the other.
Dad without a waistcoat would look as
silly as a billygoat without his chin
sporran.
“Old-timer”: On rare occasions
memory parades before me old mates
of the back-country. Long Joe, the
rabbiter, with trap paper pinned to his
ancient vest; Curly, the boundary-rider,
in the old vest he first' got from his
father (it was the last thing Curly took
off at night, for he slept in his shirt);
Dan, selector on the edge of Murrum-
yarram, using his vest to beat out' a
grass fire; Calico Charley, bush-car-
penter, with his vest pockets full of
nails ; Dyring, the overseer, who carried
stubs of pencil, a clasp knife, a tin mateh-
box and other small things in his vest
because, riding, they would work out
of trouser pockets ; many others, some
in shirts, some in flannels and all wear-
ing vests of a notable variety. Often
the vest was older than the wearer. Many
had no buttons; others had quandong
seeds for fasteners; most of them were
a habit as tyrannical as any of the
habits of man. A man seemed naked
without his vest among the varied crowd,
and such a one would receive a close
scrutiny. I do not thank “H.S.G.” for
the disillusionment, for, despite his asser-
tion that bushmen “don’t wear waist-
coats,” I would never recognise an old
mate without one..
$ Jfc * *
“Spare Walton”: After conferring
expensively in Melbourne for some days,
fisheries experts from Victoria, S.A. and
N.S.W. came to the conclusion that that
finest of Australian fresh-water food
fishes the Murray cod is vanishing from
the rivers, something that everyone in-
terested in Australian fauna could have
told them years ago. The conference
blamed poaching in season and out' and
carp and the English perch. The harm
done to Australian fresh-water fish by
these useless and uneatable vermin is
not confined to cod, other valuable
fishes like the Victorian blackfish being
in danger also. The greatest check on
the pests is the cormorant, which feeds
largely on these surface-frequenting fish.;
but the cormorant itself is slaughtered
by admirers of the trout, another im-
ported fish which is pampered beyond
reason for the sake of a few alleged
sportsmen. With the imported fish eat-
ing out our rivers, the fox wiping out
our ground-nesting birds and the rabbit
destroying valuable sheep pastures, this
country owes a few curses to the fatuous
idiots who introduced alleged and
mostly worthless “game” because it re-
called to them the dear old country over-
seas, which they seem glad enough to
have left themselves.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Female hatters were
few and far between in the Riverina, but
Charcoal Annie was known in her time
from Mildura to Maude. She existed by
burning charcoal in the river bends and
selling it, mostly to blacksmiths and users
of suction-gas engines. A mate and I,
making down to Lake Victoria, camped
one night opposite Gol Gol. In the dim
dawn my mate aroused me and pointed
to a dark object moving about on the
river edge about a quarter of a mile
away. “That’s the biggest ’roo I ever
see,” he declared, taking aim with the
.32. The slug struck the water alongside
the ’roo, which jumped four feet in the
air and lit out for the gumsuckers higher
up. Later, a middle-aged woman came
past our camp with a sack on her back
and stopped to ask us if we’d seen any
unprintable fool with a rifle, as she’d
blanky near stopped a bullet. Such was
our intro, to Charcoal Annie. Her great,
deep, haunted eyes were her most marked
characteristic. She lived alone, appar-
ently did not drink and remained anony-
mous in death.
* * ♦ ♦
“Kellick”: Another visit to Low
Island, Barrier Reef, reminds me. On
the occasion of my first call, the ship’s
company gazed longingly at the gleam-
ing strip of beach, and when recreation
leave was piped we lost no time in get-
ting ashore. An hour later we were all
clustered around the lighthouse. The
gleaming beach was absent. The tide
rises swiftly at some of these tropical
isles.
IN THE KARRI COUNTRY.
Not long ago, in a place I know, you could
ride for miles through the tall trees’ gloom
On the Sou’-West hills, but the timber mills
are spelling the kingly karri’s doom.
Yes, the mills have come with their throb and
hum to the depths of the age-old forest’s
heart,
And the rhythmic swing of the axe’s ring keeps
time to the tune that the saws impart.
There’s a new bush-line, with its rails a-shine,
gone out to the end of the Argyle lease,
Where the whim wheels’ groan and their creak-
ing moan have broken the hush of the
bushland’s peace,
Where every night in the campfire’s light the
“guns” will yarn of the men they knew,
Who chopped their claim to an axeman’s fame
in the far-off days when the West was new.
And so I know, in a year or so, no more will
echo the sounding cry
Of warning calls as the timber falls, or whim
wheels creak as they’re rolling by;
And men will sigh, as the years roll by, for the
cutters’ camps on the timbered hills
Where side by side in their splendid pride the
karri challenged the Sou’-West mills.
VICTORIA.
A. V. N.


HITS
LYS
A
ROO
MCItUI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
... »-•
% ' '
'OW.'
wm* m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPEC
FY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MAEL.
Clip Inspection.
“Bungaree”: “K. Mac’s” proposal to
appoint experts to advise graziers on the
get-up of their clips (B. 7/10/’36) is ex-
cellent. The present lack of co-ordina-
tion between woolgrower and manufac-
turer is unsurpassed in any industry.
There are a few modern Macarthurs who
follow the progress of their wool, but,
on the whole, the gap that existed be-
tween the primary producer and the
manufacturer well over a century ago
is still unbridged. They are content to
leave it to the brokers.
Brokers’ own wool experts find out
whether the client classed the clip him-
self or employed a classer before they
comment on its preparation. Some
owner-classers get up their clips in first-
rate. condition, but most would be better
with the help of a professional.
The man who had to break that news
to graziers would have to be totally dis-
interested. Instead of his salary com-
ing from brokers’ funds, it would be
more to the point to establish a com-
petent staff of wool inspectors out of the
6d. per bale wool levy fund.
Keep the Length Regular.
“Trepex”: A seasonable hint to small
woolgrowers who have not yet shorn
their sheep and are about to prepare their
own clips for market is to keep a regular
length in their main lines. Bradford
spinners pay a premium for well-grown
regular wool of good bulk.
It is useless to put in a long wool if
it is thinly grown or “spidery.” Even a
slightly shorter fleece is better than a
thin or tender one. Spinners make their
yarn direct from the carded sliver, and
in giving the twist their spindles revolve
at considerable speed. They cannot
afford to have any fibre which will let
down the general bulk of the wool in
the machines.
I classed the clip which so far holds
this season’s record price, even against
the earlier-shorn sheep.
The fleece which held the record was
the largest from the flock which produced
it. But it was well grown, and as nearly
uniform in length, quality and general
style as was fairly possible.
Any fleece which lacked length or body
of staple was put elsewhere, no matter
how light and bright, while fleeces even a
fair percentage heavier went in provided
they had the proper length and body of
staple. Some people may criticise my
methods, but the result was there, and I
would recommend it to others.
Wherever consistent with owner’s
wishes I always brand my main long
line AAA Comb. A shorter, finer and
usually heavier line I call AAA. The
culled fleeces from the longs I call A A
Those from the shorter lot are As.
Also I protect the quality of my longs
by keeping out anything over-strong or
over-long and branding it Ist Comb.
This line always sells well, too, but odd
lines are not made so much for their
own sakes as to protect main lots, and
it does not matter if they are star lots.
Hints on Woolpressing.
“Seenitall”: A classer’s skilled work
can be quickly spoilt by an incompetent
woolpresser.
Even bale weights improve the value
of the line, as they indicate, the even-
ness of the wool. With or without
scales, the work can be done well pro-
vided the wool is classed properly.
Most presses need a false bottom to
fit the bale in without the risk of tear-
ing or stretching in an unshapely
manner, and to make certain that the
same size is always in the press. This
is essential to uniformity.
Fill the box and press level with the
top, and tread well into all corners and
along the sides. Treading wool in the
middle is of little value. Refill as before
“ Mum'll go crook if y' crack that now—Uncle's' cornin' over t'night."
“Well, We gotter put the candle in SOMETHIN’, ain't We?"
and tread again until filled. According
to the weight required in the bale de-
pends the amount of times it is trodden,
but do the same on every line in fleece
wools, and you will be astounded at
the. weight evenness.
When putting in the pins, pin as low
down as possible. This ensures neatly-
closing flaps. Always draw the fas-
teners as tight' as possible before knock-
ing in, and remember that they straighten
disastrously if carelessly pulled.
When pressing lower lines such as
locks and pieces, also lambs’ wool, lay
two pieces of wide, flat 4in. timber
across the pins before filling.
This can be done only on non-wind-
ing-up presses. It saves a heap of time.
Also, never press these lines too heavily.
The few bales saved, plus handling
charges on them, are lost many times
over in lower prices.
I remember 16 bales of locks, weigh-
ing 7001 b. and over, being bought for 2d.
by a repacker, who merely put them into
4001 b. bales and more than doubled his
money. The same applies to all such
lines. Broken should be. lighter pressed
than first pieces, etc.
After the first bale of any line is
pressed, you must tread more times or
less according to weight required by the
classer ; but the same man must always
do the treading.
All fleece lines should be pressed
tight enough to ensure a healthy rising
up when exposed on the show floors.
Clean up round the press before, press-
ing wool of another line. The least mis-
take may prove unprofitable if seen by
the buyers. They wonder how much
more is like the. piece they found.
I suggest 250-3001 b. for fleece lines
and broken, from 270-3201 b. for first
pieces, up to 3401 b. for second pieces, up
to 3601 b. for bellies, and never more than
4001 b. for locks. We in the Riverina
have found this range, satisfactory, the
weights depending on condition being
kept uniform.
N.Q. Fattening Plants.
“Nothung”: If the proposal to fatten
cattle on N.Q. coastal areas is carried
out high-feeding-value pasture grasses
will have to be introduced on a large
scale. Most Queensland coastal grass
is low in nutritive value. Experiments
carried out by G. B. Brookes, formerly
of the Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment, show that wild lucerne and Stylo-
santhes guyanennsis (a visiting Brazilian)
and a creeping legume, Vigna oligo-
sperrnct, from Java, hold great possibili-
ties.
The first is highly nutritive, and a rich
nitrogen producer. The second is a
perennial and a robust grower.
But what is wanted is a plant that will
hold its own against a heavy growth of
summer vegetation. This the Java
creeper will do, and its feed value is
high:
Protein, 17.1; fat, 3.7; carbohydrates,
45.3; fibre, 25.7; ash, 8.2.
Ash: Lime, 2,45; phos. acid, .202;
chlorine, .336; potash, .498.
Protein is the best friend of the early
maturer.
Lice on Cattle.
“Andy”: Some lice on one cow in a
herd, if not attended to, will soon spread.
Should any animal become affected it
should be brushed hard, and all loose
hairs burnt. Wash the skin well with
warm water and soap, and apply a lime-
and-sulphur solution—a handful of lime
slaked in half a kerosene-tin of water,
mixed with the same amount of flowers
of sulphur after the water is pouted off,
then boiled slowly for 20 minutes ; strain
the residue off and add enough water to
make about two gallons.
With an old whitewash brush apply
two or three times a week.
If badly affected, the animal should
be separated from the rest of the herd
and fed well.
Dehorning and Beef Quality.
“Bullocky”: Queensland Royal Show
exhibit of export chilled beef cattle sup-
plied a good object lesson.
Cattle were to be under four
years and weigh not more
than 11001 b., “polled, de-
horned and tipped.”
It was impossible to judge
them in the stalls. Often
cattle that win on confor-
mation, handling and appear-
ance are badly bruised when
they are killed, but these polls
and dehorned animals proved
prime killers of ideal export
weight. There was one 20-
month-old steer which meat
men considered equal to any-
thing the world could pro-
duce in export beef.
It is senseless to truck
horned cattle long distances
and expect them to arrive un-
marked. Even the best-tem-
pered animals must swing
against each other in a roll-
ing truck on a narrow-gauge
railway.
The meatworks could help
in making a polled-cattle
standard by handing out a
small bonus on polled beef
which arrived with under a
certain standard of blemishes.
Dairy Fodders.
“Nothung”: Every farmer should
concentrate on giving his herd a well-
balanced ration to compensate for the
drain of carbohydrate and protein or
nitrogenous matter made by him upon
his cows. A dairy cow in full milk re-
quires a proportion of, say, one to six of
nitrogenous and carbohydrate food re-
spectively; in all about 171 b. to 181 b. of
such foods in easily digestible, form.
Most dairy farms cannot be said to have
this proportion in their pasture lands, be-
cause those lands comprise single grass
land.
A word might be said about some
common fodders grown. Sorghum is a
N.Q. favorite. Sorghum is even more
deficient than maize, however, in nitro-
gen ; and maize has only about lib.
nitrogenous matter to 12jlb. carbo-
hydrate matter: sorghum has lib. to
201 b. But sorghum is a reliable grower
and is rich in sugar, and so palat-
(Continued on page 24.)


Christmas Cards
ARE NOW READY—
Six charming studies
by Norman Lindsay.
Six abo. studies
by B. E. Minns.
All in their original delightful
colors, and nicely mounted. The
most artistic cards on the market.
Price per single card, with
envelope, 9d. ; or in box of 6
with envelopes, 4/6, plus postage.
Only a limited number printed.
On sale at leading stationers or at
The Bulletin Offices in all States.


COMFORT IS ESSENTIAL
WHEN RIDING
OIDING BOOTS can be strong and tough, can fit well, but
unless they feel comfortable they will not be satisfactory.
Suppleness, which enables the foot to move with the least
resistance and which gives the boot softness of movement —
that is the major point in a Riding Boot. If you want all
these, wear this Abbey Boot. Made
in Black and Brown Calf, and
stocked in full and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf - -- --27/6
Brown Calf ----- 27/6
| WRITE FOR CATALOGUE —POST FREE
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
k
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS , SYDNEY.'
W.A. 50.
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
We’re IN THE MIDDLE
...and Like It!
6AM’s unique position
gives it State-wide cover-
age. And our new power
of 1000 watts means a
million opportunities for
the advertiser.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
BUNNI-D'-
THE RABBIT FUMIGANT
THAT REQUIRES NO
TO OPERATE
Always have a Carton i
on hand. It keeps the j
rabbits under control \
yet costs you very little.
EASY TO CARRY! J
EASY TO USE! \
D. G. OFFICER PTY. LTD.
SO WILLIAM STREET it MELBOURNE. C.I
m
INTERSTATE.
N.S.W.: CHAELES CLARKE & SON,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
W.A.: LEWIS BATEMAN, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
S. AUST.: HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD.,
Adelaide.
TAS.: ALLAN STEWART PTY., LTD.,
Launceston.
Q’LAND: STANLEY CHAPMAN, Brisbane.
**
Australia's Leading Financial Journal .
October Issue Now on Sale.
CHAIN STORES
FRANC-DOLLAR-STERLING EXCHANGE
ANGLO-EASTERN OIL
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £1/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
mmtt
Women’s
Supplement
“The Examiner” publishes every Wednesday a Supplement
for Women containing all the social news and specialised
features concerning the woman and the home. It is the
woman’s own newspaper, and rivals Australia’s best. It not
only reaches the home, but stays there. You can reach
the women of Northern Tasmania only by advertising
in “The Examiner’s” Women’s Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
■AUDIT
■BUREAU OF
CIRCULATIONS
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
able. Maize stimulates the supply of
milk, and is palatable. Maize and
sorghum therefore must be supplemented
by grasses rich in nitrogen. Green barley
is a splendidly-balanced fodder, being
rich in nitrogenous matter and other
nutritious food. Lucerne hay, which
rates about lib. nitrogenous matter to
3flb. carbohydrates, can be well fed
along with fodders not so rich in nitro-
genous foods. North Queenslanders
make good use of molasses to balance up
the ration. Besides its obvious assistance
to unpalatable grasses, it is well bal-
anced in itself, with a leaning to fat-
forming matters. We don’t hear much
of cattle pumpkins in my N.Q. dis-
trict. Their main value is as a
stimulus to milk flow; but flesh-
forming matters are at about 1 p.c. Hav-
ing a high percentage of water, they are
a help when succulent fodders are rare.
Lucerne is the topnotcher, as the
following figures will show, and every
farmer should aim at having his patch
of lucerne. A judicious study of the
following facts will show how it can be
balanced with other fodders:
Lucerne has 3.71 b. protein, 7.31 b. carbo-
hydrates and .61b. fat to 201 b. dry matter.
Maize has 1.21 b. protein, 12.51 b. carbo-
hydrates and .51b. fat to 201 b. dry matter.
Green barley has 21b., 10.21 b. and .51b.
respectively to 211 b. dry matter.
Sorghum has .51b, 121 b. and .371 b.
respectively to 201 b. dry matter.
Oats has 2.71 b., 22.71 b. and lib. respec-
tively to 381 b. dry matter.
Pumpkins, have ,41b., 7.11 b. and .lib.
respectively to 211 b. dry matter.
It will not require much ingenuity to
devise, from this, with a use of concen-
trated foods as well, a system of rations
to keep up the full condition of both
cows and milk, keeping in mind the
necessary albuminoid ratio 1:6. As
an example of a full ration take the
following:
301 b. maize ensilage.
151 b. lucerne hay.
61b. bran.
2Jlb. corn.
The farmer must then be guided by con-
ditions of drought or such to work out
what proportion of full rations is being
given by his pastures, and how much he
must supply.
Codlin: Moths at Work.
“Fruitfly”: This is the time to look
out for the hardy codlin moth, whose
fancy now begins turning to spring
work. It is also the. time when the
fruit man should stick up his “war-
declared” notice, if he wishes to ward
off attack by the enemy later on.
The packing shed usually has its over-
winter grubs, which may be found by a
keen eye. All movables in the. shed
which will stand it should be washed
down with boiling water and stored
cases dipped.
Trees need inspection. Get' the young-
sters on the job on a piecework basis.
Grubs will be discovered lurking in all
sorts of bark cracks and hideholes, and
in the forks of lower branches or the
main crotch.
Bait traps make a good barometer of
moth activity. The more moths are
caught in the traps, the more eggs are
being laid. And in five to ten days the
young will be along, so that sprayers
should be ready.
A good bait pan should hold about
three pints and be meshed with fin.
wire netting so as to keep bigger moths
from floundering in and spoiling the
poison for the real enemy. An enticing
bait is one part crude molasses dissolved
in 16 parts water. Hang the traps as
near the treetop as possible. A couple
of screws put into one of the higher
branches won’t hurt it. Run a cord
through the eye and hang the trap clear
of the branch.
Rotation in Cotton.
“Marmor”: Cotton has always been
a special temptation to the “get-rich-
quick” farmer. Much of U.S.A.’s agri-
cultural crisis can be traced to it. It is
a jolly gamble. Prices go up and every-
body dances. Prices go down or crops
fail or demand dwindles and everybody
is in despair. It is a sort of regular
“spring meeting.”
Cotton is getting along very well in
Queensland, but the cotton districts are
likely to get into the same condition as
the American cotton areas. Queensland
can afford it less because it has no black
labor. In U.S.A. everybody in the fields,
from the “one cabin, one mule, one
black” population to vast landholders,
gambles on cotton. There are threepenny
s.p. bettors, so to speak, and big men
who deal only in “ponies.” In Queens-
land, everybody is more or less qualified
to bet in the Leger at least. Because
cotton pays best when it is at its best,
everybody sticks to cotton and gets a
crop as often as possible.
This is all wrong, as some have already
learnt. Over a period of seasons, as with
every crop, rotation pays handsomely.
To have “standover” cotton on a prop-
erty is to have a nursery for cutworm,
corn-ear worm and bolls. A policy of
“hanging on” affects the neighbors as
well as the owner of the hoary fields.
And grass and cows or crops of other
kinds than cotton are, in any case, an
insurance.
Better to use a smaller area properly
and intensively cultivated for cotton and
other land resting for next year’s cotton,
but at the same time earning a modicum
by keeping cows, than to have all one’s
bolls in the same basket.
Improving Our Pines.
“Nothung”: Scientific cultivation and
judicious marketing are going to make
or mar our pineapple industry, which
at present depends most on successful
marketing.
The Queensland fruit hasn’t the attrac-
tive golden color of the Hawaiian, but
it has a flavor that is catching the atten-
tion of American and British consumers.
Yet, according to Queensland Acting-
Agent-General Pike’s report, marketing
is uncertain —supplies do not safely meet
the orders: “Against one order of 10,000
cases 1500 were delivered,” etc.
We need intensive cultivation rather
than extensive. The tonnage per acre is
low ; and the quality of the fruit can be
further improved, along with the tonnage
per acre, by careful, scientific farming.
Extensive cultivation with inferior ton-
nage and quality is no good. That must
be fixed at once if we wish to take ad-
vantage of our present standing in the
market, and to advance to equality with
Hawaii.
Hints for the Farm.
“X.T.”: Try the carob bean as a standby
for stock feed —it flourishes within 300
miles of the coast in S. Queensland.
Seeds should be planted in boxes and
allowed to grow a few inches high in
well-tilled soil before being put out per-
manently. Now is the time to put the
carob in—there is already a pretty good
demand for them on the Darling Downs
and out as far as Miles ; but there is no
reason why they should not grow in any
moderate-rainfall country in eastern
Australia below the tropic where
drought-resisting feed is needed.
“Horticus”: A lot of trouble is caused
by setting overripe milk with rennet, and
too much acidity in cream produces
“neutraliser” flavors in butter and curdy
and cheesy flavors. Temperature is a
vital factor in keeping cream. Also regu-
lar and quick deliveries to the factory
should be the rule which nothing should
interrupt. Butter-making cream should
be held at between 60deg. and 70deg. F.
And between October and March in the
warmer dairying districts cream should
be separated to contain not less than
38 p.c. butter-fat.
“X. 0.”: On the Darling Downs (Q.)
there have recently been a number of
cattle deaths through variegated thistle,
poisoning. The thistle was cut expressly
for feed. It’s a bad practice to use thistle
as fodder. At some stages it is fatal,
especially to hungry stock. Grass is
much better and much safer for any-
body who is not too lazy to root the
thistle out and replace it with decent
pasture.
“Leafy”: Don’t pare banana suckers
too heavily searching for weevils. A
deep cut weakens the plant and may
destroy the dormant bud of the deep
follower near the base of the corm.
“Stump Jump”: To balance a shear-
ing-machine grinder, remove the discs
and belt and twirl the spindle. Chalk the
lowest point each time it stops. If the
marks are all on one side and close, file
metal from the side edges of the fast
pulley on the opposite side until the
spindle has no regular stopping point.
Put one disc on, spin it and file the back
to ensure that it also has no permanent
heavy spot. Remove and complete the
job on the other disc.
“Horsetailer”: A good drafting race
can be quickly made by using two sheets
of corrugated-iron for sides. A third
sheet laid on sole pieces on the ground
is better than logging. Soon a coating
of earth will hide it and deaden sound,
and when the woollies stick up in the
race they can’t grip on the iron.
“0.W.W.”: M.L. rates for barbering
sheep with machines have been advanced
from 225. 6d. per 100 to 275. 6d. Blade
shearing will be 295. 6d. per 100. This
is the first time blade rates have been
in advance of machine charges. They
should be. Taking it off with the tongs
is mighty hard graft.


SMOKE-OH!
“Away with the contemporary solemnity. Let
us play hard, but with a laugh. And give the
crowd its chance to join in the fun, too. It
will not abuse the jester’s license.”
—Neville Cardus in Sydney '‘Sun.”
Garn! Get a bag!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Odd Woman.”— Story title.
What other kind is there?
4* 4* v 4*
“Many of my friends have tried other
remedies, but none can touch yours.”
— Testimonial.
Truth in advertising.
*l* 4* 4* 4*
“Both sides in the Spanish civil war are
broadcasting exaggerated accounts of victories.”
—Cable item.
The Spaniards always did like a fight
with plenty of “bull” in it.
4* 4* 4* 4-
“Owners find strange names for racehorses.”
—Sporting note.
Disappointed punters also.
“ ‘Grimmett should slow up the scoring rate
of the English team,’ says a sports writer.”
By putting the breaks on?
4* 4* *l* •!’
Man for the Job.
“Wanted, Lagger. Reply with particulars,
experience.”— “S.M.H.”
Gentlemen, —In reply to your adver-
tisement of last' month’s date, I beg to
apply for the position of lagger. My
experience has been comprehensive.
Starting as office boy in a department, I
arrived and left later than any other
member of the staff, eventually being mis-
taken for night watchman and paid ac-
cordingly. I am always late with my
rent, tradesmen, gas and electricity, and
am on the verge of being committed to
prison for arrears of alimony, but am
not worrying, as I am already in for
jay-walking after the signal to stop. I
would appreciate your taking my mili-
tary service into consideration; dis-
charge enclosed shows date of enlist-
ment, 10/11/TB, for service in South
African War, with particulars on con-
duct from C. 0., which 1 am intending
to drop in and have confirmed one. of
these days. Trusting that this will re-
ceive your slowest and most favorable
consideration.—Yours laggardly,
Joshua Snailtrailer.
Dear Mr. Snailtrailer, —We were at
first at a loss to understand your appli-
cation, but eventually traced it to an
advertisement which we inserted some
ten years back, and not in last month’s
issue, as stated by you. Consequently,
we regret our inability to extend any
definite hope of an immediate vacancy,
as seemingly requested by you.
We will file your application, and ven-
ture to hold out a little encouragement'
by informing you that the man who got
the job has not so far turned up to com-
mence duty. Under the circumstances,
the board of directors has intimated to
me that I should communicate with him,
threatening to terminate his agreement,
should I be able to trace him. I shall
let you know the result some time. —
Your cordially,
A. Slugbumper, Secretary.
“You clumsy, in-hocked, half-witted
ape!
“Hey, cut dat out. Wont stand any
man callin' ME clumsy .”
Musical Acrobatics.
“Mozart could play a difficult piano compo-
sition perfectly, and at the same time balance a
tumbler of water on the back of each hand
without spilling a drop.”— Ripley.
What of it? I used to be able to play
the trombone and simultaneously bal-
ance a schooner of beer on my nose
without even disturbing the froth—a
feat much appreciated by my confreres
in the back parlor of the Dooyerno
Arms.
Another of my accomplishments was
playing the flute, while lifting a chair
by the leg into the air. I might add that
my wife was seated on the chair at the
time. Neither of us lost our balance.
Yet another feat was carried out by
attaching the piano upside down to the,
ceiling. I played it while standing on
top of a stepladder.
My last and most spectacular stunt
was inspired by my dear wife’s challenge
that I couldn’t stick my head in a bucket
of water and sing “Rocked in the Cradle
of the;. Deep.”
I took it up.
ly death was a great loss to the
music world.
G. J. H.
Tough Luck.
(To a Railway Commissioner.) .
I’m not that soot-encrusted cove
Who juggles boiler-plates.
Nor yet a porter doomed to shove
A truck piled high with crates.
I’m not employed the points to shut,
My strength on levers strained.
I’m not a rawboned navvy, but
My wrist I’ve badly sprained
(/ gave it such a nasty jar,
It’s strange it didn’t break) —
I’m just a tourist from afar,
And in your railways dining-car
l ordered fillet steak !
PERCY.
A Tight Finish.
“Yes, pal,” said the little man as he
wiped the froth from his upper lip for
the third time at my expense, “I should
have been the richest jockey in Aus-
tralia to-day. I was a born lightweight
—could go to scale at 7st, 21b. without
my dinner and 6st. 111 b. with a close
haircut and no underpants.
With balance, judgment, hands I could
put all the other hoops in the shade when
“About that fire-extinguisher you Wanted to demonstrate here yesterday.
It'll be all right for this morning if you're here in five minutes."
it came to a tight finish. Cripes, I rode
in some wonderful tight finishes, too.
Funny thing, though, it was a tight
finish that put me out of the game in
the end —gee! it’s hot.”
I took the hint, and as the barmaid
pulled the amber liquid my companion
went on:
“Yes, it got me in the. end. I was
engaged to ride Andy Rossiter’s Nardoo
in the Whalebone Cup at 6st. 91b., which
meant living on neat gin for five days
before the race. Andy’s other mare
Dunagain was only in to make the pace
for me.
Well, I got away well, and thought
I would walk away with the money,
when another horse darted up on the
outside. I settled down to ride a
hard finish. Cripes, talk about a race!
It was a finish, the tightest I’d ever
been in, but as we flashed past the post
I knew that once again my superb riding
had got me home. Andy came up
foaming with excitement to see me
weigh in.
“ ‘Well, Andy,’ I said, ‘we got there,
but it was certainly tight.’
“ ‘Yes,’ he roared, ‘and so were you.
So tight that you mounted the
wrong horse.’
“Yes, pal, would you believe it. I’d
actually ridden Dunagain instead of
Nardoo? I’ve never touched gin since,
but beer—well, yes, I will.”
J.M.C.
Bankrupt.
I'm in the hands
Of my trustee;
I've lost the right
To £ s. d.
That once was mine.
! have no choice
But Hobson’s now,
Nor vote nor voice
In moves proposed
Or motions carried.
In other words,
I’m truly married !
P.C.
A Trans-Tasman Tragedy.
What! Again ?
Touching on that first test of my auto-
gyro compass aboard the old Rumswiller.
The blast of vituperation from ' the
skipper when he found we’d been tied up
for a week addled all the eggs in the
galley. It was nothing, however, to
his temper when, on - going ashore to
replenish the. drink supplies, he learned
that the owners had booked him up per-
sonally with the week’s demurrage, har-
borage, wharfage and the cost of the
navy’s search for the ship when it wasn’t
sighted to schedule.
“It’ll be a corned-horse and hard-tack
voyage for youse fresh-water nitwits!”
he bawled to all hands ; “and now see
if you can’t cast the blasted ropes off
this time without someone to see your
pinnies don’t git soiled.”
I was standing beside him on the aft
starboard companion poop at the time.
“That’s the stuff, skip.,” I said. “Give
it to ’em”
He swung round, and the generous
curves of the lady tattooed on his enor-
mous chest quivered like a harpooned
porpoise as he roared:
“Clamp your moosh, y’ quarter-witted,
canary-chested, lolly-legged baboon! If I
’ad a Iceland poppy I’d knock yer rotten
with it. If it hadn’t been f’r you an’
your damned invention we’d’ve been in
Sydney now.”
There was gratitude for you! And I
trying to save him work.
However, by the time we’d cleared
Auckland Harbor he was considerably
mollified. When he saw
blue water again he
had reached that stage
when he borrowed a
“bite” from a new plug
of tobacco and handed
me back one small corner of it. When
lie told me (1 always prompt him in the
places he forgets) of the time he brought
his ’jammer round the Horn in a blow
with a jury rudder I knew I was sweet.
“All right, little saffron top,” he agreed,
and playfully swiped me a tremendous
blow on the back. “Set your mechanical
mess up again, an’ don’t forget—aim for
No. 4 Wharf, Iron Cove. I’ll git the nap
school goin’ in the fo’c’sle again.”
I should have explained the technical
details and working of my invention.
From the binnacle I had suspended by
highly sensitised stovepipe wire a bag
needle, .its point suspended in a bath of
supercharged sardine oil, with its eye
resting on the chart. The natural attrac-
tion of the needle to the magnetic north
was counteracted by keeping the sextant
in conjunction with Uranus. Thus the
wheel was held rigidly on the course
selected, any tendency to deviate being
rectified by two magnetised bobby pins
which attracted the wheel spokes to port
or starboard as required. Like most great
inventions, its simplicity was its chief
feature.
Having set my autogyro compass, I
joined the crew in the fo’c’sle. The
feverish fire of the born gambler was in
the skipper’s eye, and I could see he
Was determined to get back the Is. 6d.
he was “shy” last week. Nap was one of
his great vices* and once he started he
lost all sense of time.
On the sixth day out it got so cold
we shifted the school to the boiler-room
(the fires kept steam up in the donkey-
engine, which by a series of steam-
operated pulleys—another invention of
mine—clewed up the maint’g'l’nts’ls,
thus saving the crew from being blown
off the yards).
One day the Old Man looked at his
watch and asked what date it was.
Nobody could tell him, but O’Mulli-
gan, the squarehead, thought it was July.
“Can’t be,” he said, “we’re due in
Sydney on June 26.”
There was a swirling sound against the
ship’s side.
“That’ll be the Sow an’ Pigs,” the
skipper said. “All hands on deck to
splice the gun’ll”
An amazing sight met our gaze. We
were wedged in with pack ice!
“Caesar’s cat,” said the cap’n. “We’re
in the Antarctic.”
A sudden thought struck me. O’Mulli-
gan, a tin-whistle addict, used to come
up every night to practise in the wheel-
house. Questioning revealed that he used
to sit on the port side of the wheel, the
sensitive needle being attracted to his
whistle, thus altering the course.
Our privations there were awful. I
was the sole survivor. The skipper was
the last to go, although he was a tough
man.
I’ll say he was!
S.W.K.


The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936:
'ALL THAT
SWAGGER'
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
DRAWINGS BY
DOUGLAS PRATT.
Chapter XXXVIII.
o Continued .)
INE afternoon when autumn held the scene
in delicious stillness Grandpa took his
ancient hat and staff and called to Rover,
the last of a long succession of the name,
and with him went up the cutting. The
________ day was full of birds, many of which
had come down from the mountains for
the winter.
Among the arrivals were the grey magpies, making
a raid on the quinces, still hanging like golden lanterns
in the orchard. Grandpa’s unfailing friends, the
kookaburras, sat low on snags, feathers fluffed, and
meditated on the imminence of winter, or occasionally
laughed furiously from higher branches. The wag-
tails accompanied him closely, revolving their fan
tails. Robin red-breasts, many other tits and wood-
peckers were present, and Rover intermittently dis-
persed the more intrusive with a “Wuff!” and the
peewits and soldier-birds reprimanded him like
viragos. The magpies showered their mellow notes
into the charmed air and the cockatoos rent it with
their screeching when at the warning of their sentinels
they rose in a snowy cloud from the cultivation
paddocks. Bright parrots passed in spasmodic flight
or tarried to indulge in Smalltalk. Down by the
stockyards the crows were holding a corroboree of
mourning and resentment over the discovery of a dead
comrade. Grandpa observed many other forms along
the track which resolved themselves into feathered
friends, and he ioyed in their companionship.
He sat on a boulder now and again and rested.
He had plenty of time. He was realising that he was
free of eternity, that he was at its centre, that it
flowed all about him. It was a vast realisation, but
he had no one with whom to share it, except, perhaps,
Harry, and Harry was such a fool by the rules of
commonsense that he would not have a pound note to
bring him for so momentous a conversation ; while
William would flout the necessity as a symptom of
mental senility, and as for Robert the o.ld man
chuckled to think how Robert would receive such a
revelation. “Moi! Oh, moi! The moind! The
moind!” he murmured, his soul refusing to surrender
to Robert’s and William’s standards. In the illumina-
tion of Hy-Brasil there was assurance that somewhere,
sometime, not Robert, not William, but Harry had the
superior wisdom.
Near the crest of the cutting he sat on a grey log.
He remembered felling the tree more than half a
century gone ; it remained as sound as a stone and
was decorated with beaded lichen. He watched the
Murrumbidgee tumbling from the bunyip-hole into
Delacy’s Crossing, and heard the complaint of the
casuarinas mingling with its sigh as it ran from out
eternity into eternity, crying Husssssssssssssssssssh! to
the sun or stars. There was mystery for you! Danny
liked to ponder on mysteries, but the twin mysteries
of time and space were overpowering.
He went on his way with his staff and wooden
leg, a figure firmly etched into the consciousness of
the district. His object was the point from which
he could see the panorama of plain with the moun-
tains stacked behind. Short of breath at the top, he
sank down to recover and grew tranced with the view.
Between gorges he could still see the river coursing
from the dark hills past the homestead which he and
Johanna had made. Equally near, since his realisa-
tion of eternity, was the land he and his Johanna had
renounced on that May day long ago when they had
plighted their troth and planned to elope. Did time
flow forward in a straight stream, or in circles, or were
there two streams passing each other?
Far away was the timeless, illimitable blue with
the mountains prinked upon it and a presence
palpitant with a thousand centuries of oblivion,
behind which the sun was going down to Riverina to
rise on old Ireland, now so near at hand. Poor
Ireland! So scourged by conquerors and usurpers
that at best she could have afforded him a run for a
goat and the operations of a spade ; but here was the
glory of wide horizons, sublimely empty. He wor-
shipped the pregnant peace of the piled ridges with
their lore unlegended. Potential revelation hovering
just beyond capture gave the locality its haunting
magic.
“The moind! The moind!” he spoke aloud to
himself, in the way of a poet lacking an audience.
WHEN the evening meal was prepared Grandpa
was missing. With an imprecation William
hurried up the cutting, one of the men with him. Old
Rover, who loved Grandpa, barked at their approach.
The April air was nipping after sundown for old
bones. Grandpa had grown so stiff against the stump
that he was unable to rise, so they made a chair of
their hands interlaced. William was startled because
the old man did not speak. He was fey as one who
has been out all night on the hilltops with the Little
People and all the host of elfin spirits which in his
native land retain their identity. He seemed to see
things beyond other vision, to hear voices to which
other ears were closed.
William scolded him sharply because he was
uneasy. They bathed his foot in mustard and hot
water to guard against chill, and put him to bed. He
refused a toddy by a head-shake.
“He’s had a stroke,” said William. “Either that
or his mind has completely left him.”
Danny lay for a time looking into the night and
pondering on posterity. His urgency for future
generations was tempered by what he had gathered on
the hilltops. Liberated as he now was from the time
limitations of the earth-bound, he recognised that
posterity should not be in haste to squander its
dwindling heritage of unpeopled spaces. There was
endless time for posterity. The more time and the
less posterity, the better for posterity. Posterity could
afford to wait.
This thought was his lullaby. In the morning he
did not rise to make the fire, as he delighted to do.
Jean went in to him. He spoke in his usual resounding
voice, though it was husky. “I would like to see me
family, more particularly Harry and Della, that I have
not seen these manny years.”
“Aren’t you feeling well, father?”
“Never felt better, nor worse, neyther.”
“We can’t get Della here unless he is very ill.
We’d be blamed for useless expense. I’ll have the
doctor, at any rate,” said William.
The doctor arrived on the following day, and
could find nothing wrong. The heart was weak, but
not more than to be expected in a man of Danny’s
age.
“Sure, doctors are wasted on me now. It’s me
family I’d like to see for a little conversation about
impoortant mysteries.”
“He’s gone really childish,” said William behind
his back. “Della and Harry could not afford to
come.”
As though he had heard, the old man remarked:
“We never can affoord to see each other while we’re
alive, but when it is no use money is strewed in
foolish show. ’Tis a pity, but it does not matter now.
Sure, I’d like to see me old friend Hennessy.”
“Hennessy is tbo old to come out these short
days.”
“Sure,” said Danny resignedly. “Johanna wanted
Father Shannon, and I was too benighted to bring
him. This makes it square. Human ignorance will
keep on repeating itself till the end. When we come
to carry our hides to the tanyard—yes, old Danny
Delacy from County Clare can step up with his
wooden leg with manny another scar and say Adsum .”
William was sure that the old man was wandering.
However, he dropped asleep after saying that he felt
as well as ever he had been.
Little Danny shared the “ind room” with Grandpa
because the old man liked his company. In the
morning the boy ran to report that Grandpa was not
sitting up and smoking as usual, that his pipe had
fallen on the floor.
Danny’s pipe had gone out.
Chapter XXXIX.
NO expense was spared on telegrams
or other arrangements. Harry rode
through as Darcy had done three
years earlier. The mother of
Deerfoot, thin and old, did not founder in
the long day. Harry, too, looked thin and old and
was shabby. Everyone thought he had grown
unnaturally quiet. He spoke of the iron drought in
his region and said there were scores of others in
his plight. He had never been a grumbler.
He felt as though the roof had been lifted from life
and he left unprotected against the elements as he
turned from the figure which lay in the “ind room”
in the still dignity of death. As he wandered alone
by the bunyip-hole he pondered on his inability to
conquer destiny, and acknowledged his father’s single-
handed achievement as considerable.
He could not recall any lie, any ignoble action
or cowardice as emanating from that being, and now
realised how much his father had been to him. He
could have gazed all day upon the wreathed ranges
that had engulfed his adolescence. The keening
casuarinas were a voice from another life and drowned
him in emotion. Gone, all gone now, Danny and
Johanna and many another, and he alone in the world
of arid facts and insurmountable difficulties. Never-
theless that other magic the nobility, the spiritual
exaltation were a man’s birthright could he but
attain it. He had inherited in intensified degree
Danny’s sensing of the spiritual potency of his con-
tinent— that aisling sense of his forebears which
personified Ireland as the Dark Rosaleen.
William was in charge of the funeral and barred
women, though Clare Margaret had ridden out with
her father and Wong Foo and other Burrabinga
retainers.
“There won’t be many at the funeral,” remarked
William.
“No,” agreed Robert. “Father could have left
us a fortune if he had had any sense.”
“Everyone could put a hand in his bag.”
“He was harmless. That’s about the best that
can be said for him.”
“Old Butler and Heulong Fullwood and Urquhart
are all that’s left: Father really died when he retired
from partnership. He’s been childish for years.”
Drought was making horseflesh precious: only a
few people followed from the bunyip-hole and the
haunted crossing, away from the homestead and up
the cutting down which Delacy in his prime had
brought the first Nullah Mundoey. Turning at right-
angles from the panoramic background which the
guest of honor had loved so well, the neighbors took
the crisp road along which Johanna’s carriage had
bumped home to surprise her.
The highway was marked now with split-rails
and wire. Gates and mail-boxes denoted the home-
steads, and from every one came a representative.
William was surprised by the buggies and matched pairs
of the squatters, the sulkies and spring-carts of the
smaller graziers and the numbers of horsemen.
“It’s out of respect to us and the Butlers,” he
remarked to Robert when they drew together.
“Funerals are for those that are alive to see.”
Robert was sure that he had most to do with the
increasing congregation. Harry had more credit in
the bank of spiritual understanding. He knew that
the demonstration included men who hardly knew
William and who had no admiration for Robert and
was entirely for old Danny, the ineffectual pioneer,
who had bullocked to tame a wilderness with more
thought of posterity than personal gain, and who, by
courage and generosity overtopping that of his fellows,
had salted existence with drama.
Old Nullah Mundoey, Fearless Danny, Honest
Delacy of the Murrumbidgee, was taking his last
journey over the way that he had travelled first of
those assembled, and the news had spread.
“How the devil did they get to hear of it!”
exclaimed William as place after place yielded its
tribute.
Danny had outlived funeral tears, but Hennessy
the publican, heavy, old, known to all, let his loss have
way. Two women wept as they peeped from the
shrouded windows as the procession went along the
main street to the graveyard. Bella Fullwood and
Molly Macallister, both now blowsy and elderly,
recalled the lance that old Nullah Mundoey had
broken for each in her youth, with a generosity and
innocence that had not been repeated in their experi-
ence of men, and which that day was passing into
legend.
A bullying autumn wind thrust the tails of the
horses far aside and mocked the cortege with little
whirlwinds of dust that rose in the road and danced
away across the bare, dry ridges. The buggy pairs
could not be held to William’s sense of decorum.
Their drivers withdrew occasionally for a smoke in
sheltering knots of scrub. There was talk of drought
and prices and of the war, and anecdotes of Nullah
Mundoey which had emanated from Hennessy.


William and Robert did not appreciate their fathers
fame being invested in this Boswell, once a convict and
always a publican. William was overly respectable,
and Robert respected genteel respectability.
There was a bell to toll for Danny as he passed
the new church, and a railway-line to be crossed along
the track which he and Johanna had followed sixty
years earlier in Mr. Moore’s bullock-dray. They laid
him to rest on the windswept hillside above the town-
ship with Mt. Bowning as a sentinel on one hand,
and’far on the other lie the adorning ranges he had
loved so well, and worshipped as the fountainhead ot
a quarter of the continent.
HARRY returned to Bewuck with Robert and
William. He was surprised to see how Darcy
had grown, and noted his sensitive features and the
willowy Delacy physique.
Josephine had commanded him
to bring the boy home.
Darcy asserted that he
would return only for a short
time, and stipulated that he
should first get his possessions
from Burrabinga. Harry said
it would be a pity to expose his
Nullah Mundoey and her two
promising foals to the drought
at Murrumbong. Clare Mar-
garet then promised to care for
Darcy’s belongings and send
them after him if hp did not
return in a month. Her pretty
oval face, where the dimples
played when she laughed, was
swollen and red as she wept
with abandon at the prospect of
losing Darcy even temporarily.
Uncle William, scandalised,
thought it time that the cousins were separated. The
girl’s emotion saved Darcy from heartbreak. He, too,
wept, out of sight by the bunyip-hole, screened by the
sighing casuarinas, while he and his Oread staged
one of the colossal partings demanded by young
romance.
Among the younger members of the Burrabinga
family news of the big muster at Grandpa’s funeral
was eclipsed by the sudden withdrawal of Darcy.
They straightway made a cult of the absent one, with
Clare Margaret as its priestess. They hung his pack-
saddle on the rafters to gather hornets’ nests, and the
Nullah Mundoey and her progeny became sacred. At
Burrabinga romantic tendencies were free from
parental curiosity.
Margaret asked why Darcy had disappeared.
“Harry said something about the danger of cousins.
Josephine wants him to go in for teaching.”
“Cousins—pshaw! Familiarity would be the best
way to counteract that. I’ll miss the boy.”
“I reckon Josephine is not going to run any risk
of a morganatic alliance for her Prince of the Blood.
That poor old devil of a Harry is looking terribly
down on his luck.”
The elders had much else to engross them with
the interest to be met at the bank. The war with the
Boers was providential in this connection. Drought
had not scorched the well-watered valleys of old
Danny’s kingdom, and stirring horse-musters con-
tinued. Fine profits but little of the grief of the war
reached from far-away South Africa to farther-away
Australia.
Strangely, the war had not finished before Syme
arrived in South Africa. The few who, at the begin-
ning, were concerned with the ethics of the case had
been silenced by the noise of drums and “The Soldiers
of the Queen.” People had come to have a lower
opinion of the Boers. They shot from behind rocks
instead of swaggering out into the open in the glory
of martial etiquette where they would soon have been
settled by the expert soldiers of the Queen, my lad,
in the fight for England’s glory, lad. <
Syme was the current hero. The young people
were hero-worshippers and always had some idol.
Syme’s letters were splendid, and he sent his mother
a ring he had cut from the finger of a dead Boer.
It looked like a worn wedding ring. It was perfectly
sound, so the family said the cutting must allude to
the finger. Clare Margaret thought that the finger
might have swollen when the man died. The rigors
of war were beyond their visualisation.
DARCY and his father scarcely spoke on the way.
The boy’s heart was behind him in the lively
routine of Burrabinga, the man’s in that life which
old Danny had taken with him to the grave. Arrived
at Murrumbong, Darcy felt cramped. The thirsty,
stricken paddocks were hideous to him. He lived only
for the mail from Burrabinga, ten days distant—an
eternity —and fell to work with feverish energy so that
no task should block his return to his cousins.
Josephine quickly discerned that Darcy’s life
hung on the mail. Her children were denied sanc-
tuary: she had no urgent spiritual needs herself, and
her suspicion of inner retreats was that of the criminal
investigator.
Clare Margaret’s first letter came as the breaking
of the drought:
Darling Darcy.—We nearly all died when I got
home without you. You must have heard me howling
all the way from Murrumbong. I’ve packed up all your
dear things. No one shall break-in your foals but
myself.
There followed pages of the doings of the family.
Each member added a postscript expressing ardent
affection, and a merry anecdote against someone.
There was an oath here and there, inserted with
swagger. Clare Margaret said she had swallowed a
stiff nobbier the first night to drown her sorrow, and
that Roger had got drunk, and it was terribly funny.
Darcy read with passionate nostalgia and relived
the past with sick longing. “This day fortnight I was
wtih Clare Margaret. This day month we were. *.
and so on. At Murrumbong he could not enter
without being reprimanded for some omission. Com-
ing weary from work he was nagged to perform some
extra chore to spare his mother. After the careless
freedom of Burrabinga and its village of buildings
the compact house was a cage in which there was no
escape from the stings. One day he burst out that
it was hell, and the issue was raised.
Josephine rebuked him for being coarse and
rough. She was ambitious to see him in a clerkly
position with meek manner and well-laundered linen.
“ ‘Evil communications corrupt good manners.
You moon about, and I know the reason. You
wait for those indecent letters from Clare, full of
vile swear-words and vulgarity —dreadful enough in
a man, but unthinkable in a girl. A grown-up woman
now. I don’t know what her mother can be doing
to let such stuff pass through the post.”
“Aunt Margaret and Uncle Robert never pry.”
“It is high time that they knew what was going
on.”
He hurried to the spot where he secreted the
letters. They were missing. There was no place
from floor to rafters in Josephine’s house where so
much as a spider or a speck of dust could dispute
cleanliness and order.
Darcy returned With blanched
face and blazing eyes. Josephine
had no intuition of error in pursu-
ing an established course.
“Where are my letters?” Darcy
was perilously near to tears.
“I haven’t finished reading
them yet.”
“You have no right to read
them at all! ” He could not have believed such
outrage possible.
“Don’t look like a madman! Who has a right to
read a boy’s letters if not his mother? Who is the
one in all'the world best able to advise him: who has
his best interests at heart but his mother? It is
disgusting for a boy of your age to get letters like
that. I demand what you said to her —your cousin,
too. I don’t know what your father will say. The
evil influence of Burrabinga is glaringly evident.”
“I love Burrabinga and hate here! ” burst from
him in all the passion of his being.
“People always love sin and hate what is good.”
Josephine was unacquainted with such intense emotion
and attributed it to bad temper and the Irish strain.
“Give me my letters!”
“That I never will. I shall burn them. I would
not defile my house with such rubbish. If you don’t
turn over a new leaf you’ll find yourself in terrible
trouble —with a creature like that. She can have no
shame. I pray that evil practices have not already
gone too far.”
Darcy rushed from his mother, quivering in
every fibre. She called after him in scornful parody:
“ ‘Darling Darcy, I got drunk. Darling Darcy.’ Ha,
ha!”
She was shattering beauty and innocence, so that
afterwards had the boy a holy of holies he would
employ any subterfuge to protect it from his mother.
There is sadism in motherhood as well as in amour,
and the boy felt that his mother enjoyed his wounding.
She had had no mercy on his sensitive writhings as a
child, had called him silly. He shrank from further
mention of the subject by her as an added profanation.
Nothing was left him but to flee —no matter where —
to be safe from further inquisition.
L_JE disappeared for the day, unable to face the
1 1 ordeal of others knowing what had happened to
him —not simply the spoiling of his adolescent idyll,
but that the spoiling had been done by his mother
with evident satisfaction. His mother, whom he had
been taught to honor as a priceless pearl among
mothers, had done this thing to him, had put complex
shame in his soul, because to question a mother’s
holiness was blasphemy. He walked all day among
the soldier-birds and crows and cockatoos and
whistling jays and scrub-wallabies and hares, gathering
a shell on a festering spiritual wound, later to be
called a complex.
He had come from the ploughing, leaving the
horses with a meagre ration of straw—the only fodder
available. When he did not appear for dinner and the
horses remained untended Harry became curious,
then uneasy, and rode around the paddocks where
the boy might have met with an accident among his
rabbit-traps. He, speculated until Josephine had to
explain.
Harry listened in silence. “I wish you had told
me first.”
“Why, pray?”
“There may have been no harm in the letters.”
“No harm! After what I have told you! It
looks like the low Irish coming out drinking and
swearing—and now immorality!”
“That’s not Irish particularly, but all human
nature.”
“Nonsense! Every publican in the country is
Irish. Your own father made no bones of saying
d in front of little girls.”
There was much that Harry could have said, and
all of it would have been so unavailing that he merely
sighed and went to continue the ploughing, glancing
in every direction in the hope of seeing Darcy. The
girl and boy next in age were with Josephine’s rela-
tions, the younger girl at school.
Darcy returned with her in time for the evening
meal, and kept with her so that his mother could not
renew the attack. He went to bed when the little girl
did. Josephine remarked that he was sulking.
She insisted upon Darcy facing her next morning
when his sister had gone to school. “It’s time you
thought of doing something now and helping me with
the younger children. Your father can’t make a living.
The right kind of young men take an interest in
helping their mothers, who sacrifice everything for
their children.”
Pupil-teachers were in demand, especially males.
Darcy had been unusually quick at his lessons, and
Josephine’s design was that he should return to school
and study for examination. His academic education
had been obtained in a tiny bush schoolhouse three
miles from his home, one of the many which had
sprung up in accordance with old Henry Parkes’s
beneficent Education Act, in the form it reached
shortly before Darcy’s birth. He flatly refused
pedagogy.
“Then what are you going to do?” demanded his
mother, with commonsense on her side.
“I’m going back to Burrabinga.”
“That you shall never do. I shall write to your
uncle and aunt.”
This was ordeal piled on ordeal to the super-
sensitive lad.
“Don’t you dare write to them!”
“It shows what you have come to to talk to your
mother like that. There is only one condition on
which I’ll consent not to warn them as I should.”
“What is that?”
“You must keep away from Burrabinga com-
pletely.”
His choice was instantly made. Anything to
block his mother from writing to his uncle and aunt.
“All right, if you’ll keep your word.”
“What right have you to suggest that 1 shall
break my word? I leave that sort of thing to the
Irish.”
“All right, then. Give me back my letters.”
“I burned them. I hope you will try to forget
every silly, indecent word that was in them. Clare
Margaret must be a horrid girl.”
T OSEPHINE had Shut him from Burrabinga
effectually. She left him shamed yet thrilled by
the awakening. Like a drought blast on fruit she had
seared his adolescence prematurely to manhood at
seventeen. In the same stroke she made Murrumbong


uninhabitable. He must remove his dream to the
Diamantina, or the Cooper or Roper or the Paroo
or the Never-Never to keep it safe from profanation.
Harry had gone to plough. Darcy walked down
the hill to him. He strove to make his announcement
as one man to another. “Father, I’m clearing out.
Mother and I have had a bit of a row. I can’t stay
here any longer.”
Harry’s insight and kindness prevented him from
probing. He said quietly: “Better give it a week’s
thought, my boy. Your mother has a great deal to
worry her. It will pass.” He did not mention Burra-
binga, which was healing to Darcy.
He remained with his father for some days. His
mother recited the opportunities for pupil-teachers.
There were numerous examples of men in public
affairs who had begun as school-teachers. Darcy
shuddered. Relinquish Deerfoot and all the glorious
tribe of Nullah Mundoeys, retire from swinging neck-
and-neck after wild horses, or from catapulting down
precipices after cattle at the musters, to sit inside like
an old woman with a few kids!
He busied himself in secret preparations. His
saddle was given more stuffing. Deerfoot got stout
new shoes. His father noted the ominous signs, while
his mother thought she had brought him to her way
of thinking.
He asked his father for a pack-horse, for which
he would send the money as soon as he had it. There
was no danger of Harry requiring money from the
boy, though he had not a penny and did not know
where to raise one. He could never drive anyone, but
all could squeeze him. He asked Darcy what he was
going to do.
“Go droving!” He pronounced the words as a
challenge.
“Hard work. You want to get with a deecnt
man.”
“I’ve written to Donal Geraghty.”
“Have you told your mother?”
“Not till I’m ready to start.”
“Her idea of teaching is all right, you know.
You would ”
“Walloping helpless kids all day! I’d rather blow
my brains out and be done with it.”
“You’ll want a good dog.”
The boy’s eyes softened. “I’d like to take old
Barney. He’s a champion heeler.”
“You can have him. I have little use for him
here.”
Josephine railed when she was informed on the
evening before Darcy was to leave. She commanded
Harry to detain him. Harry said that he had been
contemplating a droving contract himself until the
drought should break. In the morning the boy took
the possum rug for which he had himself shot and
tanned the skins. He had some extra shirts and
socks. Harry contributed his own old oilskin coat, his
quartpot and tucker-bags. Josephine produced a
pound .note from her hard-won store.
THE boy was sad when departure was upon him.
He said good-bye to the little girl and to his
parents. He mounted Deerfoot, pulled Blackie’s halter
and whistled to old Barney, the' only being involved
who seemed to be pleased by the prospects.
Bound for the outer Overland, where roads were
still unfenced, the youth rode down the rise from the
house among the messmates and crossed the cow-
paddock amid the briars to gain the track that led to
the Great Stock Route that fed Riverina and the
Lachlan and the Bogan. As the stage to restless girls,
as the sea to the European lads, so called the Great
Stock Routes to Australian boys in those decades.
To go a-droving had glamor. The drover, idyllic,
comic, tragic, manly, was a sentimental subject for
the balladists who were fostering a new nation and
portraying its unwieldy place in the sun.
Harry was dejected to see his boy go thus. He
understood, but was powerless. In the great days of
Tara he might have thriven in giving richly as a
seanachie through his endowment of memory and
poetic imagination, plus physical courage and skill.
Born out of his century, he had nothing but spiritual
gifts to offer, gifts which in his environment were
spurned as foolishness bordering on lunacy. Deprived
of any outlet or income spiritually from which to
renew courage, hope seemed to wither. He was
sickened by his helplessness in an economic system
in which, as his mother expressed it, he was as unpro-
tected as a plucked goose in a snowstorm.
There was no one to understand him, though he
understood Josephine’s bitterness to see her son spurn
a sensible suggestion and depart as a mere casual
laborer or station “hand.” His was a double agony.
He blamed himself for his own failure and what it
was bringing upon Josephine. She went into the
house out of sight. She suffered from an angry sense
of being obstructed by the futility of another, and
heartily despised that other’s incapability, and was not
free from a desire for revenge upon him.
Harry glanced around the arid landscape, stricken
by the white glare. No green anywhere. An empty
watercourse gaped at the foot of the homestead rise.
A brazen sky opposed the shabby earth —bare dusty
paddocks, dead standing timber, ragged sombre scrub,
and the pitiless bleaching sunshine from dawn until
dusk. Ugly, sordid, poverty-stricken.
The road upon which the two horses and the
dog were becoming specks uncurled its grey tape to
the crest of the ridge, where it dropped out of sight
in the blue. There was always romance in a road,
beauty in the way it lay across the horizon, suggesting
something beyond the rim, even if only at the furthest
ends of the globe. The roads led up and on and away
with a promise of liberation. Highways of hope—
adventure —possiblity.
Harry’s thoughts lay upon old Danny, who had
followed so many leagues of road, who had blazed
his way where roads were yet to be, into the voiceless
but pulsating and living silence. He had left old Erin
long ago with as little equipment as his grandson now
had in pushing farther out; when, in the inevitable
cycle, he, too, was at variance with parental authority
and cramped under the home roof. A boy with
Danny in him could not sit like a barnyard fowl
sifting the dust through his wings.
Harry continued to stand as if petrified gazing
along the road where his son had disappeared, and
on which he was never to be seen again. Distance and
the magic light cast a patina of exquisite blue on the
suffering land and wove the spell of beauty to lure the
traveller beyond the rim. Only advancing age and
horny experience could hold a man to the realisation
that the beauty of distance was a mirage.
Johan Darcy, grandson of Daniel Brian Robert
M. Delacy, had disappeared into the distance with
two horses, a dog and a pound note to follow by
droving on the Overland the double mirage of adven-
ture and romance.
Chapter XL
THE best of the Delacys may have
gone in old Nullah Mundoey, but
the most impressive remained in
Robert, whom the astute Wong Foo
had early elected as head of the family.
With rare exceptions, all stations were centres of
sociability and hospitality, but Burrabinga was known
as the most hospitable of its region. The Delacy
personality gave that hospitality charm.
If Harry was a misplaced file-seanachie of the
time of the Ard-Righs, or High Kings, in Erin, the
Delacys in general were reincarnated brughaids —those
honored officials of hospitality of whom it was written
that they warned off no person of whatever shape,
that no company was refused, and no account kept
by the hosts against any person, no matter how often
he came. To run short of provisions for guests in
those ancient days was a shame to king or commoner.
Such were the brughaids mentioned in Brehon Law,
such were the Delacys, and Burrabinga an asylum for
all, like the bruideen (or breen) or brughaids ’ hostel.
William continued to rage at the madness of such
unbridled hospitality which might have been rooted
in vanity or a love of pleasure. Gramophones, motor-
cars, radios, were not then available. Company was
entertainment, and Robert in lonely days had depended
on it. The taste for it grew upon him with the years.
Both he and Margaret were generous and careless.
The family grew up more so, in keeping with the
increasing availability of commodities. Putting the
brake on became impossible.
The war dragged on. The continuing demand for
horses was all to the good. The chief danger seemed
to be typhoid fever, but Syme so far had weathered
everything. No one any longer discussed the rights
of either Uitlander or Boer. A gentleman who had
lost a teaching job for indulging in such discus-
sion spent months at Burrabinga but did . not
debate the ethics of the war. Just as well. No one
but C. P. Scott, of the “Manchester Guardian,” and
old Danny would have understood his views ; and the
first was removed by distance and the other was
mouldering in the grave.
No one knew if Robert had views. He had voted
for the sitting Member for years, and was free from
profundities of thought, a silent man in his sixties,
with a spanking overdraft at the bank and a family
that took little notice of him —or he of them, except
when there was a crisis. Instead of commanding his
son and keeping him into the collar he rodd the ranges
himself. Though stiffening, he was still slim and
straight as a reed, and, with his aquiline features and
height, a striking presence. He could not now swing
on or off a horse in motion, but he was always a-horse,
rode magnificent animals, and the excess of vigor
which had had an overflow in swagger in youth still
lent him grit and grip.
There were many leagues of fencing now. The
knolls and lesser hills around the homestead were
dotted with stately trees, spared by the axe, and had
the appearance of a park wrested from the wilderness,
but much labor was necessary to keep the scrub at
bay.
\/OUNG Darcy had been months on the road toward
1 the great north-west, “where all the rovers go.”
He was bringing cavalry remounts from Queensland.
The days on the Warrego Tracks, the nights with
horses, the drovers’ purgatory, were hard on his young
frame, but his shattered dream was re-shaping itself
in the grand unpeopledness of the Route.
He had denied himself to send money to his
mother. There! That was better than miserable
schoolteaching. Barney and Blackie were still with
him. He was getting letters from Clare at odd
corners of the Overland. Clare had sent him
Grandpa’s Nullah Mundoey by a drover who had
stayed at Burrabinga—and most men would go out
of their way to serve Clare Margaret.
Darcy—plain John on the Outback Overland —
was horribly tanned, and lines were already chiselled
by the sun around his eyes. He was learning to take
his grub like a dog and to lie down and sleep like one,
in snatches, with little between him and the earth;
but there was nothing at all between him and the
full glory of the inland sky at night—a free field
for the visionary. From the Leeuwin to Cape York,
from the Great Bight to the Gulf of Carpentaria, the
eerie land ached in the sleep of oblivion, but poets
increasingly sensed her dreams. Often in the night
young Delacy could feel the startled silence throb with
magic.
Otherwise he was growing hardened to many
things, but he was also growing a moustache, and on
that his plans depended. With a moustache he would
return to Burrabinga— to Clare Margaret—a man.
1N time the Boers surrendered. Among those who left
1 their bones on the veldt was Syme Delacy. The
living heroes straggled back into the old life, where
most of the population worked for a living and
soldiering was healthily out of fashion as soon as war
ceased. Slogans about badly managed troopships
were shouted at political meetings, and had reference
to experiences which acquainted warriors with the
actualities of war as well as its license and adventures.
At intervals since the incipient nation had outgrown
its garde-major character there had been attempts by
certain cliques to reimpose military snobbery, but
without success, and contingents which during martial
fever had been lionised found their military doughti-
ness forgotten as they returned, to undistinguished
citizenship.
Federation and the political enfranchisement of
women had slipped on to the country unaware.
Excepting Margaret, the Burrabinga people took little
notice of political statutes. More interesting to them
was the death of Wong Foo in his hut at Bullock Gap,
whither Clare Margaret galloped to nurse him, but
too late. He was brought in by a fellow-countryman
to be buried in the station graveyard with family
honors. He had made a legal will leaving his selec-
tion —now paid-up freehold —to Robert and his heirs
for ever.
Roger was turning out as good a whip as his
father. He drove four coachers in the family sociable,
which could accommodate six dignified sizable people
and many more if they were undignified and
squeezable. He attached two more horses at Delacy’s
Cutting for the outgoing journey. Incoming he blew
a horn so that the girls could put on the kettle.
Among the guests would be staid members of the
medical and legal professions, and various young
fellows who imitated vice-regal aides. When any of
these needed horses they sent to the Burrabinga
Delacys. No others were known. Harry was
obscured by poverty in a cockatoo-farming community.
William rendered his family inconspicuous by a
routine imposed to counteract the “flashing-about”
of Robert’s family. There was in his attitude much
commonsense. His prediction of Burrabinga, “It can’t
last,” was complemented by other people’s “How on
earth does it last? The banks will fetch old Robert
a gutser one of these days.”


William’s girls were not so gay and captivating
as Robert’s. They rode Nullah Mundoeys, but horse-
buyers noticed the Bewuck hacks before they remarked
the riders. The Burrabinga girls were tall and slim
and as supple as eels ; they and their horses seemed
one. William laid his daughters’ lack of dash to the
fact that Bewuck was primarily a sheep-station.
“Sheep put the come-hither on flashness and all that
swagger,” he said to Jean.
“A good thing, too. Girls can’t spend all their
lives riding about on flash horses to show-off their
figures or in making fun of other people.”
Everybody extolled the Burrabinga girls and
predicted great matches for them —those merry, curly-
headed, daredevil minxes bubbling with witty ridicule
of each and all, but also warm-hearted, who could
make a pie-crust or a ball dress as well as they could
break a filly to ladylike paces. They had opportuni-
ties of marrying city wealth, but William was astute
as well as envious. “I’d like to see them going up in
the world,” he said, “but they are likely to be snapped
up by some useless fellow with an eye to the main
chance. All the no-chop bankers’ and clergymen’s
sons are mustered there, as horse-breakers or to sink
post-holes, and because they set up as swells they are
taken inside, and make themselves so familiar that
the desirable men are shooed off.”
“Has Humphrey Vance gone back to Laura
Butler?” inquired Jean. “Clare Margaret ought to
think of someone else if he won’t come up to scratch
or she will be an old maid.”
Humphrey will never think of anyone else while
Clare Margaret is free. He goes up now and again.
She is a fool to hang off. She will never catch a better
young man anywhere—and the property, too.”
Chapter XLI.
LATE one afternoon Darcy reined-in
to note the changes that had taken
place in Burrabinga during his
absence. Some of the nearer slopes
had been ringbarked and burned; trout-
fishers had denuded a reach of the river of its fairy
shrubs. The orchards obscured the low-set house.
Old Wong’s grave was new in the little cemetery.
Clare Margaret had planted a drive of poplars
and clumps of pampas grass, and the leaves of the
trees shimmered as beaten gold and the white plumes
of the grass waved like the crests of a medieval
crusade against the setting sun. Pale-blue wood-
smoke from the autumn burning-off was incense to
the travellers’ spirit, and the cool familiar song of
the river poured between day and night like eternity
whispering Hussssssssssssssh! to the mundane dis-
harmonies of man.
Darcy felt that he had come home. The western
country could not be what this was to him. It was
like entering a deep, cool castle after the heat and
glare, dust or wet or cold of unrelieved night and day.
He rode forward to the announcement of the dogs,
which brought some of the family to the verandah.
He was breathless in thinking of Clare Margaret.
Would she know him?
Margaret had a keen eye for a horse or a man
and could have thought this was Syme returning.
He has the Delacy figure,” she said, turning pale and
withdrawing because of Syme, who would never more
come riding home at the end of the day.
Clare Margaret sped between dahlias and chrys-
anthemums, thence through the orchard and her pride
of pampas plumes, and the horseman sprang to the
ground as she came. They met. They had kissed
effusively at parting, but Darcy could not go beyond
a handshake now. She saw the joy in his eyes, the
emotion on his sensitive features, and his capacity to
feel quickened her pulse as it never quickened for
Humphrey Vance.
Darcy was a man. He had a “mo.” That “mo”
gave him confidence as his eyes caressed her. She
was adult. Darcy thought her curly hair lovely in the
new fashion, straight out of “Madame Weigel’s
Fashion Journal.” How tiny her waist in the exacting
blouse and belt, a style in which the Burrabinga girls
were expert. Never a bulge nor a tail at their waists,
and, thus outlined, their forms were provocative.
Darcy went about investigating the changes. The
girls had remodelled and rearranged the house to
accord with their ideas of elegancy. One of the
tradesmen that were for ever dropping anchor in the
sheltered cove of Burrabinga had been commissioned
by Clare Margaret. Her father had protested in view
of the overdrafts, but the man, depressed after D.T.’s,
was comforted by the young people and glad to work
for nominal wages. He added a smoke-room or den,
as lounges were then called, and another broad
verandah, such as fitted the old bush homesteads
to their uses. There were splendid pelts from
descendants of Billy, the tanning of which cost little
but time, and the Delacys would have been amused
to put value on their time. There were shelves for
books ; a roomy sofa was softened by cushions of
bright “crazy-work” of pieces of Burrabinga dresses ;
a piano was weighted with showy photograph-frames
•—a friendly, sprawling room held in fond remem-
brance by its friends.
They all had so much to tell that Darcy’s ears
were inadequate. Later in the evening Clare Margaret
and he had the old school-house to themselves. There
were so many guests that their absence was over-
looked. They lighted a fire and feasted on apples
and quinces and pears. Darcy had forgotten that
such cosiness and so much luscious fruit could be his.
Clare Margaret spoke of the soldier of the Queen
who had not returned from the veldt. “It was terrible
when word came. That
was what made Ma so
grey. Then she and Pa
began to pet Roger, and
he began to play up and
think he was the Gov-
ernor. He’s smitten on
a barmaid in Cooma,
and she is threatening
breach - of - promise.
We’re in terror that
Roger will marry her.
Pa says it will blow
over because Roger is
under age, but Ma gets
so upset over things
since Syme went.”
Clare confessed
that Roger got drunk
ever so often and that
his state had to be
hidden from his mother
as a cold or a touch of
the sun. Nosey old
Uncle William had come up once specially to tittle-tat
about Roger, but pa had squelched him.
“If the boy does take a glass now and again, I
want him to. I could always take my glass among
men. Harry was kept in a coop, but as soon as he
got away from us he drank like a fish. I don’t want
my boys to be like him.”
“But I was reared like Harry,” William had con-
tended, “and if it came to real assets I might come
out ahead of you.”
“A young man can’t carry his liquor if he is
' kept on a feeding-bottle too long.” Robert had
walked off with his defiant swagger, which William
called “throwing his legs about.” He had turned
back for a last word. “I reckon you remember the
false accusations that were brought against me when
I was Roger’s age. It will take more than hearsay
to put me against my own flesh-and-blood.”
“It is hoped that Roger has your luck in crawling
out of tight corners,” was William’s parting thrust.
Robert was glad to see Darcy. There was harness
and saddle repairing to keep him busy for weeks, and
with Syme gone and Roger so erratic there was need
of a stockman. The war had cleared away the sons
of lawyers and bank employees who had sown their
ne’er-do-wellism around the station. Robert said:
“If you are wanting a job you might as well go on
my books for the present.”
ANIGHT or two after his arrival, when he was
in the kitchen writing labels for Clare Margaret’s
jam-pots, he observed with some confusion “You
are not married yet?”
“Who would I marry?”
“One of these fine swells for everlasting eating
the place to beggary.”
“The lady-helps don’t give me a look-in ; besides,
I’m too busy.”
The direction of the household fell on Clare
Margaret, and her duties and contrivances kept her
out of sight while dancing and similar aids to romance
raged in the evenings. She was often. missing from
picnic expeditions in order to make jam or get out
an extra laundry or put the hard-worked house to
rights.
“Also,” she continued with a provocative smile,
~ y t x ?
“Humphrey is like a policeman and sees
that no one else has a chance.”
“Are you engaged to him?”
“I might have to take him yet.”
“Then you don’t care for him so
dreadfully much?”
“Not so much as I wish I did.”
“What do you mean by that?”
“Oh, you know. Uncle William says
he’ll be able to buy and sell every other
man who comes here before long.”
“Pooh, money! What good is that?”
“You’d know if you saw poor old Pa
and Ma so worried about the bank.
Scissors! it was awful just
after you went away. The
bank would have foreclosed,
only the war saved us ...
but it took poor old Syme.”
“You know why I came
back, don’t you?”
“Everyone loves to come
back to dear old Burrabinga.”
“That’s true. I reined-in the nags on the Plains
and looked and looked for half an hour at the moun-
tains. It gave me a feeling I can’t describe to see
them. I thought of what Grandpa told me that time
I rode Deerfoot to the races. He said the mountains
had beckoned him always. I never felt like that
before. It seemed as if the silence were speaking, if
you can understand what I mean.”
“I know.”
ANOTHER generation or two and Danny’s breed
would be indigenous to the soil which they had
awakened from fabulous fallowhood, its primeval
virginity scarcely yet ravished from timeless sleep.
After a silence Darcy continued: “If you were
going to marry Humphrey I’d saddle the nags and
make back to the Diamantina.” Then his heart
gagged him. From the den floated a waltz medley, a
string of favorites, banged out in accentuated rhythm.
The voice of the Burrabinga rushed like wings into
their personal silence.
“So now you know,” said the youth haltingly.
“Yes, I know,” responded Clare Margaret with-
out a trace of coquetry.
“I suppose I must go away to the Paroo or the
Roper.”
“You mean because of the cousin business?”
“What do you think about it?”
“There would be the father and mother and
uncle and aunt of a row.”
“Is that all!” exclaimed Darcy, suddenly elated.
“You mean that you wouldn’t object, yourself?”
“Well, lots of cousins do marry, from Royalty
down.”
“That’s what I want to tell you. I met a man
out in the Never-Never fellow with a university


education ; talked real hee-haw like the old parson.
Cripes! it was funny to hear him swearing at the
cattle in that brogue. Told me about the Ptolemies —
Cleopatra, you know, and Pharaoh. They married
sisters and brothers.”
“The worst trouble is that I’m old enough to be
your mother.”
Clare Margaret the plucky, the actual manager of
the homestead, broke into sobs and said irrational
things. She was a wild creature. Parental discipline had
been skipped, and life itself had let her run as untamed
as a high-spirited Nullah Mundoey which knew
neither bit nor tackle until full-grown. Clare Mar-
garet was maturing with the loss of Syme as her only
experience of grief, and Roger’s lack of self-control
as the major trouble of her days.
• “We can never think of it. I couldn’t marry a
boy. If I wait till you are old enough everyone will
say I took you because I was an old maid and could
get no one else.”
“Aunt Della and Uncle Ned were as happy as
Larry.”
“Uncle Ned wasn’t a cousin,” sobbed Clare Mar-
garet. “I wish you would go away where I’ll never
see you again, because I can’t bear you being my
cousin.”
• “I can’t bear it either,” said Darcy, equally dis-
traught. He had learned much in the hard days of
drought, in the pitiless sun, in the restless nights under
the frosty stars, or in the dreary sodden rain, but
nothing that enabled him to bear up under Clare
Margaret’s tears. “It would be best for me to go
away at once and get it over. I’ll never think of
anyone else as long as I live.”
Clare was so moved that Darcy had to clamp
down his own excitement and comfort her. “Don’t
go away at once. I could not bear it. I’ll ride all
the outlaws and try to break my neck.”
Darcy was weary of camp food and a bed on the
ground and the endlessness of roads —of sand or dust,
naked of grass, without water, or else boggy or deadly
with poisonous herbage. The prospect of sojourn
where Clare Margaret was could not be resisted.
The saddling took a long time, as he was so
often called out to the mustering or to deliver stock,
and so on. He could drop into the breach when
Roger failed, and when he spoke of going not only
Clare Margaret but his aunt and uncle would inquire
what was his hurry.
His mother heard with disquietude that he was
again at Burrabinga. She harped on the cousin
danger, though others were more alarming to her.
Harry sought to minimise uneasiness.
Chapter XUI.
A YEAR passed: Darcy was still at
Burrabinga. Robert and Margaret
seemed to be unaware of the quality
of his and Clare’s affection. The
others were engrossed in their own affairs.
Their life was lively with bouts of hard work inter-
spersed with picnics or attendance at the agricultural
shows or charity bazaars in the surrounding town-
ships. Clare Margaret was left more and more to
superintend the homestead.
On her depended the regulation of supplies, the
sowing of vegetables, the harvesting of the orchard.
Mavis married. The third daughter, Vida,
announced her engagement.
Clare and Darcy might have drifted indefinitely
in the morass of cousinly amour only that Humphrey
Vance appeared and remained at Burrabinga until he
could define matters. He sought opportunity one
Saturday night by manoeuvring Clare Margaret away
from the people singing in the den or dancing on the
verandah. Robert was resting in his own room with
Margaret. It was increasingly their habit to withdraw.
“I don’t believe you care as much as a tobacco-
tag for me,” said Vance when alone in the school-
house with his love.
“Oh, yes, I do. It’s only I haven’t time to
get married. If I didn’t look after things we’d be on
the rocks.”
“If you cared you’d think of marriage first.”
“How do you know?”
“Because I care.”
Clare Margaret did not know what to say.
Humphrey forced himself to go on. He was a
straightforward man with less feeling and imagination
than the Delacys but more ballast in worldly affairs.
“I’ve been doing a lot of thinking this last year.
You are wearing your life away here for nothing—just
keeping a free pub for all and sundry. I want you
now while we are young, to have some fun.”
“Marriage always looks to me like the end of
fun.”
“Well, what is your idea-working like ten for
every
in ' ha back coun,ry with the ”° f
rabbits. „ , , ,
“We have the Wong Foo estate laughed the
girl. Wong s estate had become a tamily by-word
hke the Yackandandah.
“You might be jolly glad of Wong Foo’s thrift
before long,” said Humphrey with a touch of rebuke.
Flippancy about money-matters savored to him of
half-witted ness.
Clare was silent. Humphrey had to reopen the
question. “I could give you everything you want.”
“Yes, but I’d have to marry you,” flashed the
girl, partly in return for his financial superiority.
Humphrey winced. “You won’t mind if I speak
plainly?”
“Fire away!” she said brusquely, to cover
apprehension.
“It has been hard on my vanity, but I have to
face it. You like me as a friend, but you are dead in
love with Darcy. He's the dreamy sort of chap that
girls like to coddle. And you think romantic things
about him.” <
He was shocked by the effect of his words. Clare
Margaret blushed to her ears, then paled as if fainting
and broke into sobs, equally disconcerting. She had
always been the most high-spirited creature of
Humphrey’s acquaintance.
“There, there!” said he, attempting comfort but
determined to straighten out his emotions in a
businesslike way. He was too cominonsense to waste
his substance in providing a free resort for spongers —
some of them supercilious. “I did not mean to hurt
your feelings, but I have been living in a fool’s para-
dise. Cousins are the devil. They have an inside
pull over strangers and you can find yourself in deep
water with them before you know where you are.
I’ve seen lots of cases.”
Clare Margaret continued to cry, but softly, so
that Humphrey recovered his composure. “Now, you
are soft on Darcy, aren’t you? He means more to
you than anyone else in the world: ’fess up.”
She said no word of denial, for which he hun-
gered, however false. With stern effort he continued:
“That would not matter: I could help you to over-
come your infatuation for the youngster if he did not
care for you, but he loves you like a girl in a story-
book. I can see that now, from that day he came
to the races. You turned into a different person to
play with him. The familiarity of the cousin business
blinded me. I thought it was all right when he went
away after your grandfather’s funeral.”
“We tried,” said Clare Margaret with a sob.
“Ah!” breathed Humphrey, and was silent so
long that the river imposed its Hussssssssssssh! upon
the ephemeral fret of man. “Well,” he said at length,
“you can’t go on for ever as you are now. What
are you going to do?”
“How do you mean do ?" asked the girl.
“You can’t marry him.”
At that Clare Margaret demanded “Why?”
“He’s a cousin, and I know how the Delacys
look at that.”
“Lots of cousins do marry.”
“Yes ; but how would he keep you?”
“Like Uncle Ned keeps Aunt Della, I suppose.
Humphrey’s face went blank. “Then you are
thinking of marrying him?”
“It seems to be you who are thinking that.’
“I am, for the reason that I’ve thought of nothing
else but marrying you since you were seventeen: and
I’m just waking up to see where I stand.”
“Right in front of me in
the middle of the schoolroom,
said she, very Clare Mar-
garetly. He was incited to
seize her wrists and hold her
where he could look into her
eyes. Her femininity excited
him as wine, and she enjoyed
his male strength, but his nose
looked too big, his eyes too
small. Altogether he was too
broad and heavy —like a
coacher. Her ideal was the
thoroughbred.
“Clare Margaret, you can
waste your own time if you
like, though it’s a terrible pity
when you’d make such a
lovely little wife ; but you have
no right to waste Darcy’s life
and mine.”
“I don’t want you to hang
around.”
“But you let us hang
around. If you don’t want
Darcy why don’t you send him
away? On the square —which
of us do you want?”
“Oh, 1 wish—l wish
Darcy was older!” She began
to sob again.
HUMPHREY was tender to
the indecision of such a
beautiful girl. He decided to
have a talk with Darcy. He
liked him in spite of being
jealous of him, but, as a man
able to add to his property, he
felt mightily superior to any
male Delacy. He went with
Clare to bathe her face in the
river opposite old Billy’s hust-
ings, and then they returned to
the den, where dancing was
proceeding as usual. A Sydney
man insisted upon a turn with
Clare Margaret, which gave
Humphrey his chance with
Darcy. They went out on the
pretext of letting a horse out of the stable. It was
not easy to begin, but Vance was direct, not complex.
“I wanted to talk to you about Clare Margaret.”
He made a good deal of lighting his pipe, though there
was no wind. The stars blazed in a clear dark sky.
Darcy freed the horse. This accomplished, he stood
with his back to the stable door, waiting for Vance
to continue and thankful that the night hid the com-
motion in his senses.
“I’ve been talking to Clare Margaret. She can’t
make up her mind: we ought to do it for her. You
know what I mean?”
“Go ahead.”
“Well, hang it all, I’ve been telling her that she
doesn’t want to waste her life: and I don’t want to
waste any more of mine either, just hanging around.
It’s this way: I think she would be fonder of you
than she is of me if you were not her cousin and so
much younger. But those facts can’t be blinked, and
I think it would be a good thing if you would go
away and let me see what I can do.”
“Did Clare Margaret say that?”
“No. I think she is between two fires, but if
one went out she could turn to the other to boil her
billy.”
“Did she say who she liked best?”
“No. I’m telling you that she can’t make up
her mind, and if one of us went away she would be
satisfied with the other.”
“Are you going away?”
“Damn it all, how could I, and take care of my
property?”
“I see,” said Darcy helplessly. He had no
property.
“Excuse me for saying this, but I’m a bit older,
and could provide for her better than you can, but
if she really wants you and you have the guts to
go through with it —well, I’ll keep out of sight. I
have no more time to waste. After all, Clare Mar-
garet is not the only girl in the world.”
“She is to me.”
“To me, too, of course, if I could have her; but
if I can’t I don’t see any force in mooching about
as an old bachelor for ever.”
“Whether Clare Margaret married someone else
or not there could never be anyone else for me.”
Darcy said this with an intensity astonishing to
Vance—of different mould. The Delacys were like
that, he reflected —emotional — Irish. It was attractive
in the girls. They seemed to feel so keenly that
beside them other girls were wooden and dull; but
in men —damn it all, such sensitiveness made them
girlish. That was what had foundered young Syme
and Roger. Their company was so sought that they
had been spoiled. And two of a kind would never
do. An outsider might be charmed by Darcy, but
surely Clare would be repelled by the Delacy qualities,
which led to waste. He had to acknowledge, however.


that Darcy showed none of Syme’s or Roger’s tenden-
cies. He was as steady as a girl, but it was doubtful
if he would ever have any property. A man could no
longer acquire land by sitting down on it as the
Anguses and others had done years ago. There would
be nothing of Burrabinga left for any of them. He
wondered how old Robert hung on as he did.
“If she means all that to you,” said Humphrey,
picking his way, “and —well, if you mean as much to
her, 1 reckon the difference in age and the cousin
business will have to go.”
“But you point out that I can’t give her a grand
home, so I’ll up and clear out.” His mother’s tribula-
tions because of his father’s failure as a provider came
across the screen of experience as a grim warning.
“Will you?” said Humphrey with a throb of hope.
“Straight wire, I will. I had a letter from my old
boss this week asking me to join him on the Overland
to Adelaide.”
“I reckon that will let us both know which of
our cakes is dough.”
They lingered, affecting interest in general
matters, but to both came insistently the swift river
singing on the way to old Murrumbidgee big waters —
a susurrant thoroughfare of sound accompanied by
the yelp of a dog, the neighing of a horse, the cry of
the curlews and plovers in the tea-tree swamp, the
crickets chirping for rain. All sounds flickered out
against that melody, constant as time, untamed as the
wind.
“The river is so loud it promises rain,” said
Humphrey.
“Doesn’t look like it,” said Darcy, glancing at the
sky, velvety-black and crowded with stars. Both
were impatient to return to Clare Margaret.
THEY acted in good faith, but Clare Margaret
upset their plans.
On Monday evening Darcy announced to her his
intention of leaving Burrabinga again this time
permanently. She saw by his manner that something
had decided him, so she took her life in her hands and
voted for love and poverty. Darcy tried to stand by
his principles. They were together in the laundry
on the bank of the river, the girl “folding down” for
the morrow’s ironing in the light of a hurricane-
lantern. Darcy helped.
“I thought you cared terribly for me —you pre-
tended.”
“I do,, but I’m trying to save you. I have no
property. Vance will have the whole of Longview.”
Clare Margaret was practical. “You could take
up that selection out by Bullock Gap, where Wong
Foo used to fossick, on that ferny creek. I can do
everything in a house. Look at this wash, piled to
the rafters—a first-class hotel couldn’t have more.
Most of them act as if they were conferring an honor
on me to come and eat us out. That old swine who
came with Dr. Christopher on Saturday actually com-
plained of fleas in his bed. He took them there from
that mangy old dog he put inside the flower-garden.
He broke off my dahlias.”
“A fatal accident is sneaking up on that dog.”
“Goody! ”
“I’m getting full of these old culls too. They
smoodge around Roger but they order me about like
a rouseabout. One had the cheek to offer me a tip
last week.”
When all the linen was folded they sat together
on the ironing-table and swung their feet and talked
to the lullaby of the river until the lantern went out
for want of oil and all the household was in bed.
They had caught a gleam of the light of life and
were exalted by the radiance. In it they ripened to
a full determination as lovers and laid plans within
the fortress of their preference for each other for a
partnership against the world at large.
CT TORMS followed.
) Robert was proud,
with Johanna’s social
values, and had
dreamed of Clare mak-
ing a splendid match.
Inconsistently, he had
not employed the least
stratagem to ensure
this. His training, or
absence of training, by
Danny had not fitted
him for such diplo-
macy: he could not
manipulate people to
his will. He was grow-
ing to be a lonely if
distinguished figure, like
one of the stately river
gums among a scrub
of saplings and under-
brush, but still unbowed
by fate. He denounced
Clare’s intentions on the
grounds of consanguin-
ity, her seniority, and
Darcy’s lack of prop-
erty, and said that
Vance would be more
satisfactory. He dis-
cussed the matter with
Margaret. They had
always been a devoted
and congenial pair and
drew more closely to-
gether as the family
grew away from them.
“It’s a case of pro-
pinq u i t y,” she re-
marked. “I cannot
understand marriages
between cousins on any
other grounds. They
lack romance or
novelty.”
“It’s as disgusting
to me as it would be to think of marrying my sister.
Josephine and Harry will make an uproar.”
“They should have kept him away.”
“I like him, if it wasn’t for this.” Robert wished
that Roger himself promised half as well, but he
was jealous as well as proud, lacked his father’s
passion for abstract truth and would not permit such
heresy to escape him.
There ensued a period of strain for the old people
and Clare Margaret and Darcy. Mavis, Vida and
Roger rather welcomed the prospect of Darcy to
keep Burrabinga going. They wanted the dear old
homestead to come home to, and Darcy was one of
themselves.
With signal wisdom Josephine and Harry
refrained from public comment on a marriage that
was distressing to them.
“Marriage between cousins is revolting to me,”
said Harry.
“Cousins or strangers don’t matter so much
eventually as having to drag along in poverty.”
THE marriage took place six months later at Burra-
binga. Mavis and Vida did not come from Sydney
for it, and no one was invited in the neighborhood.
There was no pack of guests to gloat on a bride
decorated with satin and orange blossoms: the
principals were almost as modest as illicit lovers.
The swarms of visitors to Burrabinga were relieved
by Clare Margaret’s self-effacement, which enabled
them to say later “You should have let your friends
know so that we could have sent presents.”
Humphrey wrote a letter of congratulation to
Darcy and offered to be godfather to his first son.
Coole Butler and Fannie (Vance) sent a present. Four
years since they had married, much to Uncle
William’s satisfaction. That was one solid
union of property with property in the
family.
Following the wedding Darcy and
Clare rode to Keebah for the night. Darcy
had no vehicle and was too sensitive to
borrow. Old Sandy and Janet were still
living, but piteously old, and there was
also one of the sons to extend a welcome.
A special dinner had been prepared, and
Clare was given an egg-cruet, which so
touched her that she wept.
“That’s her grand match, to her boy
cousin,” sniggered Uncle William to Jean.
“A nice child, but as damned a fool as
his father.”
“Poor things. They have to make the
best of it now.”
“If they had some of the money
they’ve squandered on cadgers and flash
showing-off they wouldn’t be starting in
the scrubs with their bare hands like our
fathers and mothers did over seventy years
ago.”
“Clare Margaret won’t have so much
time to make fun of others now.” Clare’s
entertaining ridicule found unfailing ma-
terial in Uncle William’s and Aunt Jean’s
peculiarities, but considering that Clare
was now extinguished Jean added “We had
better send them a wedding present.”
“That flummery of silver plate to put
on airs above themselves won’t be any
good at Bullock Gap. A cheque will be
handy.”
Clare —she dropped the Margaret in
the struggle of marriage—wrote Uncle
William and Aunt Jean a grateful note and
felt less critical of the Bewucks.
CLARE and Darcy selected on a creek
abounding in tea-tree groves where a
horseshoe of ranges rose in tiers against
the sunset. They lived in a tent dur-
ing the summer. Darcy and two men, plus Jim the
carpenter from Burrabinga, worked to have a shelter
before the sleet of winter. The home was of slabs, as
the first hut at Burrabinga had been. Clare, however,
insisted upon two progressive features: all the floors
were boarded and the roof was of corrugated iron.
The bark roofs of the early pioneers had retreated
to a lower social level, arid Clare and Darcy clung
to their squatter grading.
Darcy had to guard the poultry from prolific
native cats, and lessen the marsupials on whose runs
he had settled. He tanned skins and sold them ; the
capable and tireless Clare made rugs of more to be
used as blankets. They made their own furniture and
displayed one or two “elegancies” collected in addition
to the egg-cruet. After all the arduous and unflinching
pioneering they had less than Johanna had started
with seventy years earlier. There were no longer any
friendly gins to wash for Clare.
On moonlit nights Darcy scarcely went to bed
at all, but spent his time in clearing, while Clare
helped him with the firing as Johanna had helped
Danny at Bewuck. They had a start with horses and
cattle and began to collect a flock of sheep. They
made a garden and orchard in the deep, pure earth
of the flats, free from weeds, blight or insects.
Their ceaseless endeavor to wrest an estate from
the bush left them no time to be lonely. They were
glad to sleep during the abbreviated nights and on
Sunday afternoons. Any friend who drifted their
way was warmly welcomed, but there were no hordes
of tourists to eat them to bankruptcy as at Burra-
binga. Their nearest neighbor was the son of Bella
Rafferty, who with one of his Heulong cousins was
bringing forth a large brood in James Fullwood’s old
homestead, nine miles distant.
Bella was still living at Heulong. James, Charles
and his wife, as well as her sister Euphemia Hennessy,
and Hennessy himself, were now all dead.
Towards the end of the first year Clare had to
slacken her labors owing to approaching motherhood.
Darcy increased his effort —if that were possible.
All their thrift was needed to offset the descend-
ing rhythm of trade. The demand for horses declined
and declined. Bicycles had banished horses in thous-
ands from the towns. The progress of the horseless
wonder was further alarming.
“Horses will soon be two a penny,” the breeders
said.
A few years more and the motor-car, which had
excited such derision at the beginning of the century,
became a commercial reality—the final challenge to
the horse and all the swagger of his acolytes.
Most people were still assured that the motor-car
could never be anything but a toy for the wealthy.
The cost would keep it above the ordinary man, who
would have to depend on the horse.
OTHER changes came. The district had been
triumphant in the provincial and acrimonious
rivalries for the site of the Federal Capital. The
Plains were to be adorned with an ideal city scien-
tifically planned. People in other countries found
the name of Canberra in the cabled news and gave
it a new mispronunciation.
Numbers of old pioneers were swept away as
rubble before progress. It would have been an act
of grace to leave undisturbed a few old identities, so
soon to join the aborigines, whom they in a recent
day had unfeelingly ousted, but a young and impatient
democracy could not loiter. The old folks —all gone


these twenty years—had to pull up their stakes in the
sunset of their days. Birrabee and hospitable old
Keebah were resumed. This finished old Sandy. He
was painfully old in any case something above
ninety—but with still enough fire for resentment. He
died of a stroke and left with a long cortege expressive
of sympathy. Janet, only five years his junior, went
with George and Janet Junr. to Victoria.
She was valiant and uncomplaining, but when
the boundary gate of Keebah closed behind her she
was shorn of all that had been her and hers through
seventy years, and became a piece of displaced furni-
ture, superfluous and with but one wish —to be
brought back to rest beside her Sandy.
Their headstones are in the old graveyard where
the wide day lights the Plains. Few remember them
to-day. All the settlers contemporaneous with the
first Delacy generation were too hard at work, too
unschooled to leave written records. The shelters
they erected against the blazing sun, the sparkling
frost, the deluging rain and the wild winds sweeping
without obstruction across a quarter of the globe, have
decayed or been re-shaped to other uses.. The occu-
pants have vanished as last year’s snows from the
frore highlands of their old-time runs, their bodies
returned to the comfort of the earth which their burial
disturbed from an oblivion of cleansing fallowhood.
Robert Delacy, of all his coterie, was left for a
time to reign alone at Burrabinga, the most tangible
result of the dreams of the young Danny who at
eighteen sat on the stile one May day in old County
Clare, projecting adventure and plighting his troth
with his Johanna with the lovelight in her eyes and
the hardihood to elope with her Danny-boy to the
“furthest extremity of the globe.”
Chapter XLIII.
MOTOR-CARS had conquered the
Blue Mountains by ’O5. Delacy’s
Peaks, like the walls of a fortress,
protected their realm a little longer,
but decrescendo was written under the
high-spirited rhythm of blood horses’ hooves and
brought dispirited years to Burrabinga.
Old Robert’s silken thatch still had no white
threads, though there were some about his jowl.
Mavis and Vida, when he visited them in Sydney,
insisted upon pa submitting to the King Edward clip,
which had long been in vogue for squatters with any
sense of style. Those who clung to the possum forma-
tion in whiskers had been relegated to farce, and
ridiculed as Dad Waybacks, successors to the earlier
bushwhackers.
Robert’s flesh, in the Delacy way, grew less and
less with age. He alighted gingerly at the end of
day, though he still rode spirited beasts of the old
strains, and he and his dogs were about the runs all
day and every day. He suffered at intervals, but
Margaret’s attentions with embrocation kept the wolf
of decrepitude at bay. They were both feeling their
age, with the whole elder generation departed as last
season’s leaves, and themselves on the outposts as
the oldest hands.
To the oldsters the world never recovered from
the passing of Victoria. King Edward had not time
to sink his life-long role of Prince of Wales in that
of King ere he had gone and his son had taken his
place. That was better: King George and the new
Queen had made themselves actual by a visit to open
the first Commonwealth Parliament. Australia
owned a social share in them.
ROBERT was the only Delacy who, in the false
phrase, could carry his liquor. Alcohol was his
constant resource in heat or cold, fatigue or depres-
sion, but no one ever saw him fuddled. Grog was
forbidden to the lads at Bewuck. Uncle William was
able to say “I told you so” with reference to Roger,
who patronised the hotels of Gool Gool because no
reporting relatives were there. When he was ejected
by some publican he would make to Ferny Creek and
implore Clare to shelter him until he was fit to re-
appear. Margaret had never seen him in the trough
of his bouts. As Johanna with Robert, she refused
to be aware of anything that belittled her son. Robert
accepted this as natural from a mother. The police
and the publicans had early informed him, however,
and his haughty spirit was hurt that he had to be
grateful for their lenience.
Enlivenment came from the grandchildren. As
soon as they could lisp they all plumped for Burra-
binga, where adventure lingered in its orchards, its
river, its domestic animals in the fascinating processes
of multiplying. A boy could collect eggs from a score
of species or find an eyrie or bring home baby
possums and wallabies. There were no bird-lovers or
animal-protectors to give him a bad conscience. And
there were always horses. No Delacy walked except
to catch a horse.
Another of Josephine’s children
died of chill after influenza. The
tragic Delacys again! William said
that Harry’s brood were weeds. One
of his own daughters, Sophie, was
distinguishing herself. She had per-
suaded her father to send her to
a Sydney school conducted by two
advanced Englishwomen, where she
won scholarships and other prizes
which diminished her expenses and
earned her a reputation. She had
begun pedagogic training at the Uni-
versity. William exulted in her.
There were paragraphs about her in
the local paper, and her picture had
been in the “Town and Country
Journal.” Hitherto no Delacy had
been mentioned in the “T and C. J.”
unless he died.
“ ‘A live dog is better than a
dead lion,’ ” said Clare at Ferny
Creek, criticising the picture. “One
Delacy promises to be worthy of
old Danny, as Hennessy would have
said. I must congratulate Uncle Wil-
liam.”
William was not without un-
easiness lest his prodigy might be
“strong-minded” and shut out of
matrimony, the weak-minded, per
contra, being more fitted for that ex-
clusive field for women.
Clare’s boy had blue eyes and
hair like black floss from old Danny.
Clare taught him, and he could
write a letter before he was six. He
was also a daredevil. Punishment
was no deterrent to shinning the
highest trees after birds’ nests or to
riding as recklessly as all the De-
lacys in one. He also had a ten-
dency towards machinery and dis-
graced his tradition by preferring a
bicycle to a horse. Josephine claimed
his mechanical genius, as she was
the only one of the fraternity
“handy” with carpenters’ tools.
He had been christened Brian
Daniel after Danny, and Franc-Alleu after Johanna’s
mother, with reversion to the old spelling. Josephine
deplored the hideous names, but Harry cherished the
naming.
Clare was determined that the child should have
the highest education obtainable.
“It is time that one of the Delacys knew more
than to be a drover or a boundary-rider,” she
observed. “They rack themselves delving about the
ranges, just for loafers to cadge from them. We need
a few Delacys with fat tummies to spread gold chains
°. n ’ i n town while others take a turn
tigrinising in the scrub.”
She was thin and prematurely wrinkled and brown
from hard work. Her wit had sharpened in the
struggle, but her pride and the unfailing devotion of
Darcy kept her up.
P) ARCY seemed like an old man, not a peck of
. fi es h on him; but people contended that emacia-
tion was characteristic of the Delacys. The weariness
of his bearing wrung the heart of his father when he
came on a visit.
Darcy attributed his state to having wrenched his
back when fencing. Such work with the Delacy
physique was the relegation of a race-horse to a
wool-waggon. Harry reported that the homestead
was a wonder. He did not know how Darcy had
managed so much grubbing and fencing.
“A pity it is such an out-oTthe-way hole,”
observed Josephine. “Why the Delacys buried them-
selves there in the first place puzzles me.”
“The easy land was grabbed by the big fellows
with capital, and influence with the officials. That
region is one of the fountains of Australia.”
“Lots of men started as convicts and left
fortunes. The Delacys were free, yet came to
nothing.”
“To become rich you have to grasp without
principle.”
“Lots of rich people have as good a character as
your father.”
“I have never seen as great a character as my
father.”
“A man is not great who cannot provide for his
family and attain some prominence.”
“Criminals can be prominent. My father had a
vision of the future. He opened a region without
bloodshed among the blacks—Doogoolook and Maeve
confirm that and without convict slaves or any
ill-gotten gains.”
“But he got nowhere. No Delacy has even been
a Member of Parliament, or even the Mayor of
Bandalong, or anything but a wasteful nonentity.”
“Perhaps when all our hides are in the tanyard
it will be difficult to say who were the failures and
who the successes.” Harry, was dispirited by his
financial helplessness. Josephine had much to endure
because of it and did not allow him to forget it.
The twist in Darcy’s back did not mend. Clare
had to bring him to the doctor all the way around
by Heulong. Those living in the direction of Ferny
Creek lacked the influence to obtain a bridge. One
had been thrown across the river to transport materials
during the building of a weir, but this was on the
Learmont property, and Learmont threatened to shoot
trespassers. Other landholders tacitly supported him.
Opening the road would entail expensive fencing and
the loss of acres now used in grazing.
The doctor said that Darcy had been dying on
his feet for two years. Hard years of droving,
followed by racking effort and frantic industry to
provide a home for his Oread—beautiful as a quince-
blossom —had wrecked his sensitive frame. He was
to be given all the peace possible. Nothing else now
mattered. He craved to return to Ferny Creek. The
litigious Learmont, contesting the right-of-way to a
bridge without approaches and high as a gallows in
the air, was in the minds of Darcy’s friends when
they advised him to stay in Bandalong. Soon the
rivers would be swollen with winter, and communica-
tions cut off.
“If I was home you could look after me better
than all the doctors and nurses put together. If only
I could have a rest I would be all right. Ghost! I’m
tired.”
CLARE choked back her grief, her warm heart all
indulgence. She borrowed a buggy and drove
him home. They had to ride from the Murrumbidgee.
Trees had fallen in a recent gale
and great holes had been washed
in their bush track, but Darcy
uttered no complaint. When
Clare laid him down at the end
of the journey he was a waxen
shadow, but the sapphire eyes,
which old Danny had said
should have been a “faymale’s,”
thanked her with a look of con-
tentment.


RELIABLE REBUILT TYPEWRITERS
. By Chartres Ltd.
Rebuilt Typewriters from Chartres
are RELIABLE... INEXPENSIVE
Only the best “trade-ins?’ afe reconditioned.
Every month hundreds of good “used”
typewriters, are “traded-in” on new
Remingtons. Many are dissembled or
scrapped—only the best are sent to our
reconditioning plant.
There, in the same factory where the
Remington—the only Australian-built
machine — is assembled, over 70
mechanics work. Chosen for their
specialised knowledge of various makes,
they successfully recondition EVERY
TYPE of machine.
Arrange for a trial in your own
home or office. You will be under
no obligation. Chartres rebuilt
typewriters must' be in first-class
order to pass the rigid tests imposed,
and, despite the fact that they work
and look like new machines, prices
are remarkably low.
Post coupon to-day for details.
You’ll be surprised how little it
costs to own one . . . how easy are
the easy terms.
I CMP OUT
COUPON
| Chartres Ltd.,
| Box 542B, G.P.O., Sydney.
i Please send me particulars of your rebuilt
| machines. Also enclose details about the new
♦ Australian-built Remington.
| NAME
} ADDRESS
I
CHARTRES LTD.
Remington House,
Liverpool and Nithsdale Streets, Sydney. ’Phone M 6481 (11 lines).
And at T. & G. Building, Bolton Street, Newcastle.
During the autumn days—soundless, still —Nature
held her breath. The comfort of return lent Darcy
a little strength, and soon he was able to sit in the
sun. Clare was fortunate in old Dunlop, who could
turn his hand to any task. As with many a homeless
middle-aged man, his mistress was alcohol. He was
an occasional boozer who might once a year obey the
craving, but Clare did not think he would go while
responsibility braced him. Roger promised to come
for some weeks after the autumn mustering and
branding.
Darcy was free from pain and talked of being
well when the cold weather went. Clare was feverishly
happy those days, and her strength equal to the calls
of housewife and nurse as well as the field work.
She toiled and scraped with no one but young Brian
to aid her. From early extravagance she had changed
to hard thrift.
Doctors are often mistaken,” she said to herself,
and recalled hopeless cases which had recovered.
Only Dr. McKenzie was surprised that death
delayed. During this reprieve old Dunlop’s will col-
lapsed and he departed for Gool Gool on urgent
business, where he began to drink himself to ver-
minous emaciation in a pub beyond the township.
Roger had gone in the same direction with butcher’s
fats and camped in another pub.
It was then that the Reaper came, at midnight,
while Brian slept and the wild wind was lashing the
sleet on to the roof, tearing the vines from the
verandah-posts and laying low many a forest giant.
The bed was in the largest room, with the big
fireplace in which the logs glowed white as a blast-
furnace and hissed as a gust whirled the rain down
the wide flue.
Darcy complained of being cold. Clare re-heated
his bed until it was an oven, but still he complained.
Then Clare’s heart missed a beat as she recognised
the visitor who had come through the barred hard-
wood door out of the furious night and waited near
the threshold.
“No! No! Go away!” cried her heart in
anguished resistance.
She knew nothing of death; despair unnerved
her ; but courage, even as fear, is sometimes an entity
beyond the volition of its host. Darcy began to talk,
and she placed him comfortably on his pillows.
“You know, Grandpa was a dear old man. He
gave me that beautiful Nullah Mundoey with no more
uss than if it was a kitten. He was the most won-
derful old man I ever knew—all those wise things
people tell of him. When we’re youngsters we don’t
understand. We make fun of the old instead of
finding out how they did things. It’s too late by the
time we have enough sense to know how wonderful
they were.”
“Are you warmer now, pet?”
“I don’t know. I’ve forgotten. I wish I could
talk to old Grandpa now. He could tell me what I
want to know. He knew all about Ireland, but we
never asked him about it... Think of that time he
lost his leg.”
“Yes ; and those spiffing yarns of old Hennessy’s
about how he acted with the carriage, and when old
Grace Butler wanted to get up a breach-of-promise
case against pa.”
“I’d like to be buried near old Grandpa! I’d
like to do something friendly to him. He was such
a friendly old man. He didn’t mind us being only
kiddies.”
Darcy’s head fell sideways, he gasped, a look of
unutterable weariness passed across his features and
left them calm and without expression.
'T' HEN Clare Margaret knew that she was bereft
* of her dearest, her richest anchorage. No miracle
had spared her this ordeal. No miracle but that of
fortitude would support her or extricate her from the
finalities.
Numb with loss, she suppressed the desire to run
sobbing to the child in the farthest room, and turned
to prepare her beloved for his last sleep in her
presence. The storm continued to shake the house
and lash the big trees to frenzy as it rushed up from
the vast south with a voice like the wrath of God.
When everything was in order she wakened the
boy, who came wondering-eyed from his nest under
the possum fur to the light of the kerosene lamp and
the sinking fire.
“Is Father worse?”
“No, pet; he will never suffer any more.”
A sob stifled speech, so that Brian, terrified,
demanded “Is he dead?”
His mother calmed him and said he could sit
beside the bed and keep father company while she
arranged the cold room for his lying-in-state. At
d a y brea k she said “You must go for Charlie Full-
wood. This was Bella Rafferty’s son, nine miles
distant. ... . „ .
Brian departed, enjoined against galloping or
jumping over logs lest his sure-footed friend should
slip in the waterlogged tracks
pULLWOOD set out immediately, leaving Brian
to escort Mrs. Fullwood. When she was ready
she clambered on to an old neddy and the baby was
handed up. .
ar le ha arrived with a drenched horse, but
Clare, working inhumanly, had milked the cows and
was attending to the other animals. She was too
tense for speech, and
Charlie was relieved
by his wife’s arrival.
He then went to in-
form Burrabinga.
The approaches
to the footbridge
had been washed
away during the
previous spring.
Many things were
in need of repair
since Clare and
Darcy had left and
Jim the carpenter
had gone to his rest
in the station grave-
yard, where, even as
dust, folks found
hospitality.
The river
foamed past as on
the day when the
mischievous Clare
had rounded the
geese into it. No
one attempted the
Burrabinga in flood.
Hydraulic pressure
would have swept
the most dauntless
horse off his feet or
to some spot where
there was no bank
to land.
The dogs
brought out the
household. Roger
was still in Gool
Gool, Robert away
on the run. Intui-
tion told Margaret
that a “bad turn”
had to be reported.
Nothing more could
be done. The river
would run down
quickly if the rain
ceased, but the dense
snowclouds did not
promise fine
weather. If the
river did not fall
Margaret supposed
that it would be
necessary to bury
Darcy at Ferny
Creek.
Fullwood rode away to get a prospector on the
Gool Gool road. Rain fell, steady and windless, warm
and with no hope of clearing. When Fullwood
returned it was time to dig-in for the night. They
would go at dawn for the pine flooring-boards of
Fullwood’s dining-room. The fossicker was a car-
penter.
Mrs. Charlie reported Clare’s intention of taking
her husband to Bandalong. Charlie thought she must
be wandering.
“We couldn’t get around the sideling to Heulong
bridge. Ferny Creek is washed out in deep holes.”
He repeated this to Clare.
“His last words were that he wanted to be buried
beside Grandpa Delacy, and I’m going to do it.”
“If only the bridge were finished,” murmured
Charlie.
“Surely to heavens,” she broke out passionately,
“when I think of all I did at Burrabinga— went miles
and days out of the way to care for people—any
tramp or Chinaman was always looked after —there
must be someone to help me now, or they are a
beggarly lot!”
“How can we get to the bridge?” said Full-
wood, but merely while he collected his wits.
The rain roared on the iron roof and trickled
down the chimney and hissed in the fire. The
augmented voice of Ferny Creek could be heard in
the distance. No other sounds came from a drenched
world. Beast and bird had sought shelter.
“My poor darling is so wasted he can’t weigh
eight stone. Up the stiff places we can carry him.
I can sew the coffin in bags so that it can be hooked
on.”
“Learmont wouldn’t think twice about a charge
of shot.”
“We’ll go at night.”
“All right, Clare. We’ll be ready.”
Fullwood went out to talk with his colleagues.
Decent men near to primeval Nature, to balk a
woman exigent for her young or her dead would
be blasphemy to them.
The old fossicker took off his hat to think.
“Christ!” was the most printable of his expletives.
“We’d be a lot of old women if we couldn’t do
what she wants. Child’s play to what I’ve seen on
the diggings.”


Chapter XLIV.
THE lowering skies did not lift. It
was one of the wettest months
remembered in Danny’s kingdom.
A spring broke out in the stable.
Water gushed up if a stick were thrust in
the ground anywhere about the premises, but Clare
was not to be deterred. Two more men had mustered
from beyond the fossicker’s. No word had been
allowed to seep to Learmont, a mile below the
unfinished bridge.
As soon as Darcy was in his box they all set out.
The coffin was slung on an old salt-lumper. The
vast saturated bush was voiceless save for the patter
of rain and the music of rills filling a thousand
channels. Every gully had a creek swollen to a
river, each hillside its cascading bridal veil. The
horses sank to the hocks in mud or waded girth-deep
through swamps and creeks. The hills and sidelines
were the most difficult, as the earth gave way in
greasy slithers.
The silent traveller lay through the first night in
Annie Fullwood’s best room. The party arose by
candle-light and departed at dawn. The rain had
ceased for a brief interval and along the ridges the
lyre-tails could be heard singing anthems in their
arboreous transepts. The returning rain silenced the
heavenly choristers, who still accompanied the pro-
cession for some distance and then fluttered across
the track and disappeared down the precipices.
“I don’t expect Learmont will give any trouble
in the circumstances,” Charles Fullwood whispered.
“The circumstances are the very ones he’ll fight,
if he knows anything,” responded the fossicker, who
had seen life undecorated on many goldfields and
knew that superstition was stronger than law concern-
ing a corpse conferring the right-of-way to a place
of burial
•Til deal with Learmont,” said Clare, overhear-
ing. “Darcy goes to Grandpa as he wished.”
Brian rode with the others and shinned up a pole
with a rope. Getting Father over the bridge became
an a dvetnure to him
“Here comes someone!” he shouted.
“Old Learmont,” said one of the men, halting in
his talk.
Clare nerved herself for combat. The rider
approached blazing with rage until he noted the
woman and that other malign shape. His reaction
was immediate. He dismounted and came on with
uncovered head in the rain.
“Clare Margaret, I am very sorry for this, ’ he
said in earnest neighborliness. He and the elder
Delacyshad been boys together. 1m in time to lend
a haa , , . .. . l,*i r t-
Clare broke down at that, while Learmont
jomed the men „
You should have let me know,
“We hadn t time to send so far, said Fullwood.
“We thought you might have run us off as
trespassers,” observed the old fossicker.
“Circumstances alter cases,” Learmont admitted.
At the farther side of the river the burden was
carried to the bank by the men waist-deep in water,
who then took Clare and Brian. A horse and cart
were fetched from a settler: messages weie tele-
phoned.
“A pity we had no time to let Burrabinga know,
remarked Fullwood. “They might have got out by
the Keebah punt.”
Clare’s response was bitter. “I’m glad they did
not know. Pa and Ma are too old to slop around in
the sleet and get rheumatism. Everyone else can go
to hell, and stay there. No one came to our wedding.
My poor lamb died on his feet slaving. After seventy
years of pioneering we still had to start with our bare
hands because we were mad on hospitality. ’
“But that is how the country got settled,” mur-
mured Fullwood, “by helping each other and sharing
in the early days.”
“I don’t want any flash cadgers gloating now,”
snapped Clare.
Nevertheless telephones rang with the news that
Clare Margaret —she had become Clare Margaret
again like a princess resuming a title —was bringing
the dead man across the disputed bridge, and that
among her escort was old Learmont. She had been
forgotten since her eclipse in a poor marriage, but
now in flood and storm re-emerged with the silent
Darcy and opened a thoroughfare.
T" ALES were revived of old Delacy’s honesty and
l fearlessness.
“His deaf-and-dumb blackfellow on one side of
him and a full-blown Chow, as flash as a white man,
on the other!”
“Started those horses from a colt that he stuck
a wooden leg on.”
“And scattered peacocks and billygoats from
Goulburn to Cootamundra.”
“Nearly time the old man’s breed came out, I
reckon.”
“Any youngsters?”
“One boy, about eight.”
“Old Danny’s breed on both sides ought to pro-
duce something.”
“Fullwood says he was like an engineer getting
the coffin on to the bridge.”
People met the mourners. Danny Delacy was a
living legend, and scarcely a soul in the district but
had enjoyed the hospitality of Burrabinga. Many
remembered the vivacious girl and her prancing horse
and glittering gear, her pranks in all the gay swagger
°f the nineties, and this tragic reappearance stiired
t be imagination. A squatter between Butler s and the
hridge met her with a buggy and pair, and the rough
bos re sted in another drawing-room for the second
with the winter flowers of the station garden
al ll|X>n V . , . . . ,
The ram held up at dawning as they left for the
township, but the sky was heavy and the wind had
asperity. Fresh contingents of sympathisers followed
for an hour or two and dropped back, when others
look ,helr P laces -
Uncle William came to meet the procession with
the Bandalong hearse. On, on, across the rolling grey
plains in the biting, cheerless day. The township had
not enjoyed so interesting a funeral since old Nullah
Mundoey had enlivened the route. Brian whispered
to his mother:
“All the people to see Father buried! They must
think a j ot 0 f hi m ”
“jfs too late,” said his’mother grimly. “It doesn’t
matter what they think now,”
I JNCLE WILLIAM’S plan for his niece to remain
vj at Hennessy’s with her Aunt Jean died when Clare
Margaret looked through and beyond everyone. Silent,
tearless, stern, showing the ravages of mature struggle,
s h e stood d y t he graveside, for the first time in her
nf e care i ess alike of appearances or opinion, while
the sodden clods drummed on the coffin. The prelude
jjf e wd h its flowery morning and perfumed zephyrs
ad passec j • s h e h ad learned that life was an isolating
mons t er , that those worthy of maturity—the givers—
must ever meet it separate and alone.
•
Tbe top-boots which had been Daicy s one scrap
of wedding swagger showed under her shrunken skirt.
Her bare coarsened hands were blue with cold. She
had lost her gloves at the bridge. The soaking ram
had come on again. Someone held an umbrella over
her. It was Humphrey Vance. He had looked at her
across the grave but she had not acknowledged him.
He remembered the lilting girl on the blood filly,
the budding woman in a frilly gown, a-bubble with
high spirits, and now, though she was a sombre and
weather-beaten widow of thirty-three, in a battered
hat and shabby coat, he knew that his heart towards
her had changed less than her development and
appearance. The quince-blossom girlish beauty had
left something of gipsy defiance in her unheeding
despair as she stood by the filling grave, a sorely
smitten woman but clearly of fighting mind.
Vance would have stood by her to a greater
extent than the umbrella, but was too aware of his
environment to bring gossip upon her. Also, she had
not wanted him long ago and might resent his intru-
sion now, though he was nominally godfather to the
boy. Later he might assume some responsibility, but
action involving expenditure needed deliberation.
He relinquished the umbrella to Harry Delacy,
who had arrived in time for the burial. Financial
helplessness was stamped upon his clothes, but he
had Danny’s irrefragable wholesomeness of disposi-
tion, and neither defeat nor bitterness looked from his
eyes as he acknowledged old friends. A cough racked
his thin form, and people were relieved when the
Vance umbrella shed some of the drops off him.
William tried to lead Clare Margaret from the
grave after the first clods, but she would not move.
All perforce had to stand with her. The shovellers
worked furiously to shorten the ordeal, and soon the
mound was shaped. Still she stood.
“I’ll bring her presently,” Harry whispered to
William as the crowd withdrew to Hennessy’s hotel
to take nips against incipient colds and to discuss the
widow, past, present and future.
“Vance can have her now,” said one of Vance’s
employees. “A good many have fooled round trying
to hook him these last ten years. She still must be
sticking in his craw.”
“Good iron, Wingey! Wouldn’t it be a lift for
her! ”
“My oath! She’s a fool if she doesn’t nab him
now.”
“Big streak of fool in all the Delacys— riding
horses no sane man would back.”
“Yes, and spouting poetry without being drunk,
neither.”
“They were eaten out by loafers worse than
rabbits.”
“My oath, yes! The Vances started later and
now are the nobs of the district, and the Delacys are
going to pot.”
“Old Vance never gave a meal away, even in the
early days.”
“Showed his commonsense.”
“Old William has enough savvy to sit like a
clucking hen on what he has. Old Robert’s overdraft
must be a boomer.”
“Hear the kid ask if they were going to cheer
his Father?”
“By cripes! she deserved a cheer, bringing him
out like she did.”
“It put old Learmont’s pot on properly. Have
another?”
“My oath I will. It’s so flaming cold it will turn
to snow.”
The bar talk eddied to the price of wool and
livestock.
Brian’s question about the cheers had issued
in a clear treble. His only other gathering had been
a football-match at the Plains, where the hero of the
game had been hip-hip-hoorayed.
Harry and Clare lingered by the grave. The
large attendance at Danny’s funeral had inspired the
sons to replace Johanna’s modest headstone by a pair
of more elaborate design. The cost had fallen on
William. Robert had not yet sent a cheque for his
share, and Harry rarely had a penny.
The horizon was obscured by a veil of slanting
rain which soaked the mourners in spite of the
expensive umbrella as they read the epitaphs, and
Harry then and there informed Brian of the great
qualities of his grandparents.
Chapter XLV.
UNCLE WILLIAM hurried them to
Hennessy’s, to dry clothes, a big fire
and nips of grog. Harry insisted
that he was as hard as nails, and
made light of his cough, which had per-
sisted since the whooping-cough contracted on the
roads with the wheat when a boy. He suffered keenly
his inability to aid his daughter-in-law, but, as
Josephine constantly pointed out, he could not give
his money to the publicans and still have it lor his
own use. He had been twice rescued with advances
on Josephine’s expectations, but this had not prevailed
against droughts and the mismanagement vested in
lack of bargaining proclivities. He was now medi-
tating a loan from William.


Sena/
Begins
Who Was the White Abbot
And What Went On
Behind His
L£- Fan?
If ■' W HEN Marcia Burnett,
Sydney girl holiday-
ing in Rangoon, persuaded
her English schooldays
friends David and Anne
Layton to let her join their party to
Kyaukdaw, she did not dream into
what startling adventures she was going to plunge in that
centre of superstition, religious intolerance and intrigue.
i *
8 • I
> - a
mM
a
m
ag®
Read all about Marcia’s experiences in the “Woman’s
Mirror” new serial, commencing in October 27 issue, on sale
Friday. Don’t miss “BEHIND THE PONGYI’S FAN”: thrills,
danger and romance in the Burmese Back-o’-Beyond!
cy Ae
AU S T HA LI A N
WOMANS
MIRROR
“Don’t take it too hard,” said Uncle William to
Clare. “I’ll take a look around myself. A few pounds
is neither here nor there if you’re wanting it. We
can spare it.”
“Of course we can,” said Aunt Jean.
Clare appreciated this liberality, but her pride
was wounding her. William was generous to his
relatives; also, since Vance’s action with the umbrella
Clares’ stock had begun to rise again. She always
felt the necessity to accentuate friendliness with Uncle
William since she had matured to understand the
depth of the affront she was supposed to have put
upon him long ago. He, on his side, had come to see
that it had not mattered.
“You are a strong young woman yet, and time
does wonders,” he said, bent on cheering her so that
he could show her the wonderful photograph of
Sophie in her cap and gown. Sophie was the only
one of old Danny’s stock achieving any
distinction. William could afford to be
bountiful to the once gay and merry
Clare Margaret, now a sorrowing widow.
His boys promised to be capable of
holding what he had accumulated —
something for thanks when one of
Robert’s sons had been killed and the
other was thriftless and Harry’s were so
delicate that they had early disappeared.
“I’m glad that Sophie has struck out
and got an education,” said Clare. “If I
drop like a bullock in the chains for
it, I mean to give Brian a chance. Only
fools drag at' this pioneering. The fat
slugs who never soil their hands come
and sit in the places we’ve bursted our-
selves to make.”
When the rain lifted William drove her home by
Heulong bridge. Harry had delight in little Brian,
and Josephine had invited Clare to bring to boy to
Murrumbong, but she was eager to be at Ferny Creek,
where the old fossicker was in charge.
Josephine was not softened towards Clare Mar-
garet by Darcy’s death. Clare had lured him from
home: she had won. Josephine remembered her last
view of the boy riding away across the dusty paddocks
in defiance of her plans. Had he listened he would
now have been in a comfortable school instead of
having bullocked himself into an early grave ; and
that he would have been wearing good clothes was in
Josephine’s subconsciousness. Old Johanna had
struggled until the end for the elegancies through
which Danny had charged like an antelope at a
horse-fair. Josephine, in her turn, longed for the
sleek city man and the pavement parade for herself —
doing the block—as against the shaggy bushman and
his isolated home.
ROBERT and Margaret were pained to learn how
Darcy had been taken out and that none ot
the Burrabinga family were at the funeral. Roger
was still absent. He had come as far as Ferny Creek
to find the fossicker alone. Dunlop appeared later
and the three were there when Clare returned to
reflect that any of them could better have been spared
than the light of her existence.
Before the river was safe to ford Robert, with
the hardiest of his dogs, came to ask Clare to return
to Burrabinga. But Clare refused firmly. Ferny
Creek was all that she had for her boy, and she meant
to hold it.
When the river was safe Margaret rode out to
add her persuasions to Robert’s.
“It is kind of you and pa, but I could never go
back to waiting on a lot of tourists for nothing.
Mavis and Vida had stacks of useless wedding
presents, but I had no return. I mean to educate
Brian so that he can escape to the city and have
everything to his hand. The Delacys have done their
share of tigrinising for others to reap the benefit.
It’s time some of the city people worked a little of
the corporations off themselves. Grandpa and
Grandma, then you and pa, pioneered like navvies,
and yet Darcy and I were not a bit farther along.
The poor darling had to be hauled out to be buried
like something from the North Pole.”
“What would be a pity would be to turn out and
leave the benefits to outsiders after doing the slog-
ging. You must do as you feel best.” Margaret
turned to other subjects.
“It’s a pleasure to see Uncle William’s pride in
Sophie,” said Clare with a flash of her old humor.
“He has the copyright on the only Delacy that isn’t
a dud. He’s so pleased with me now as a down-and-
outer that he’s forgiven the night he got to bed with
Mrs. Vance.”
Clare was well-off for man-power while her loss
was fresh. Every neighbor offered to carry a load
of supplies or to mend a fence, and so forth. Dunlop
had straightened up once more and was due to give
excellent service. The fossicker, too, was glad to
ringbark or do odd jobs during the winter in return
for his keep under a sound roof.
“She can’t carry on there with nothing but men,”
said Robert. She did, though, for a time, preparing
to part with Brian for his own sake. She was willing
to mortgage the property to assist one bright Delacy
intellect to something other than bushwhacking, and in
this was part of the general revulsion against bush
life that was infecting the people.
Times were hard. Burrabinga was in a sad way,
less two males and the most stirring female Delacy,
and with the market for beef and horses steadily
declining. Bank foreclosure was postponed only in
the hope of recovery.
Clare was safe at Ferny Creek. Darcy had
amassed a picked flock of merinos. The place was
dog-fenced and cleared on the rich deep flats and on
some of the slopes.
BRIAN was sent to school in Sydney. His Aunt
Mavis, who lived at Burwood, took him, and he
attended the public school there. He was a long way
behind other boys in his subjects, but he applied him-
self to study and settled happily to his changed life.
His mother’s hopes were on him. For his sake the
days were all too short. To throw a sop to convention
she had acquired a gentlewoman whose husband had
led her a dog’s life and finally abandoned her while
he retired to Darlinghurst. She was pleased to
retreat from censorious tongues and more relieved
than touchy that the alias of Mrs. Thingamebob
generally hid her real name.
Humphrey Vance found business to bring him to
Ferny Creek. Clare was able to spare her outer
paddocks for agistment and thus earn more for
Brian, She was indebted to Vance for equitable pay
for her grass and good prices for her livestock,
inquiries about his godson and the example of his
close-fistedness.
Harry was dogged by ill-luck as well as mis-
management. The youngest girl passed in an epidemic
of diphtheria. Only Isabel survived. She was a
sturdy, opinionated woman who met Josephine in
full combat. A final battle-royal had resulted in
Isabel training as a nurse and disappearing into the
Orient with a medical mission. Josephine denounced
her as an ingrate, but Uncle William laughed merrily
about her, and Clare said she was glad to see her
making a profession of the battle of self-righteousness
instead of wasting it on the family.
Margaret and Robert were like two ringbarked
gums —stripped, but not yet struck to the ground by
lightning or wind. Roger had his uses to his mother.
Because of him she had no trouble in securing
“jineroos” to fill the place of her departed daughters.
The ambition to be established in the squattocracy
lured many a subaltern lass beyond the Murrum-
bidgee. City girls still had the illusion that it was
necessary only to reach a station to enjoy easy wealth
and a continual picnic of adventure.
Roger had all the Delacy charm, which none of
the family had so far been able to market as per-
sonality. He was not one who absorbed from others,
nor who shoved both fists in the bag when per-
quisites were being distributed ah, there was the
family weakness! He had sweethearts in all the
townships of his operations Cooma, Bungendore,
Bandalong, Gool Gool and farther afield —but showed
no disposition for the fetters of marriage.
Old Danny’s breed was lying fallow as far as
any distinction in his descendants was discernible.
{To be continued next week.)


FOR SHORT STORIES
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition;
January 31, 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
.
mm
THE
'BOULIA'
BIG-DIP
STOCK
SADDLE
£l4/18/6
MOUNTED.
Has plenty of dip in
the seat and the
pads are s£in. high.
It has the popular
short panel with
leather facings at
back. It is built on
a best “Fouright” Tree and of first-
grade materials throughout.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
Write for 100 -page Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON,’ LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Every class of Banking and Exchange
business is expeditiously transacted by the
Bank’s Branches within the Commonwealth
and its Agents overseas.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and at
Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
“Punch-drunk Fighters — Dull, Heavy Men,
with Flattened Faces”
LAST
FIGHT
BY
ACHEADLEY
IT was going to be his last fight, but
Joe Renally hadn’t told anyone.
Back in the dressing-room, he
sniffed hungrily at the strong odor of
liniment. It was his atmosphere. His
eyes drifted over the trestled rubbing
tables, polished with the grease and
sweat of men’s bodies. Away from there,
they wandered around the walls covered
with pictures of fighters. Joe always
noted, with approval, that his own was
still there —Joe Renally, Welterweight
Champion—and the date ; nearly four
years ago.
Four years! And he was still fighting.
He grinned when he thought of it, and
leaning back let his eyes play over the
muscled leanness of his body. The
papers sometimes called him “a battle-
scarred veteran,” but he was still fighting
main events, and that was something.
Battle-scarred was right. His left ear
was a round lump of meat, his nose dis-
played two distinctive ridges, and his
jaw had a heavy flatness. But he still
l'elt good, except for that ocaasional
dopiness. Punch-drunk, the doctor said.
It worried Joe. He knew what it
meant. Punch-drunk fighters. He’d seen
enough of them, dull, heavy men, with
flattened faces, who walked on their
heels and had dead-fish eyes. “Just one
more fight, doc,” Joe had said ; “one
won’t make much difference.”
This was it—and it was to be his last.
He felt glad and sorry at the same time.
Glad because it meant that the dull
throb between his ears would be given
a chance to die ; sorry because he’d miss
the sense of his own importance, the
strange comfort of this bare room, smell
of sweat and liniment, slap of hands on
flesh, clatter of buckets, white-sweatered
attendants in soft-soled shoes; most of all,
the hum of crowd from behind the doors.
“H’yer feelin’, Joe?”
The voice intruded sharply on his
thoughts. It was Dinny. Dinny knew
how he was feeling. How he always felt.
It was easy to read his lazy confidence.
He grinned and let Dinny take charge of
his hands. That was Dinny’s regular job,
taping the heavy-knuckled fists with an
air of reverential respect. Joe liked
Dinny. He was like a sparrow, quick,
alive and always waiting to be scared.
Joe was hardly superstitious, but he had
come to regard Dinny’s attendance at his
fights as a kind of lucky charm. Last
fight. Dinny would miss him.
1 T couldn’t be long now. Dinny was
* smearing the vaseline over his face.
The door opening, the noise of the crowd
intruded suddenly
on the hum of the
room. Joe looked
to see who had
come in. It was
his trainer, Mac-
key. He came over
and perched on the
bench.
“Set, Joe?”
“Like a jelly,’
Joe grinned, and
licked a speck of
vaseline from his
lips. “Where you
been, Mack?
Gettin’ your coin
on the other
feller?”
“Mightn’t be a
bad idea at that.”
Mackey’s broad
mouth settled over
his teeth. “Every-
thing jak e,
Dinny?”
“Ever’thing ’cept the fighter,” Dinny
supplied. “ ’E ain’t been jake since ’e
was ’it behin’ th’ ear be a pea-shooter in
third class.”
Joe was used to their banter. It
amused him and flattered his vanity, and
sometimes it effected the real purpose of
helping to settle his nerves.
Presently he was following Dinny and
Mackey through the door that led out
on to the floor of the stadium. It always
excited him, that walk down the packed
aisles. He could never quite get used to
it, the arc lights cutting out the square
of white canvas, the blue smoke-filled
atmosphere, and the pulsating throb of
the crowd. It occurred to him that this
was the last time. Finale. He’d try to
make it good for them.
I—l E folded his hands in response as
1 1 the crowd greeted his arrival in the
ring. He felt at home, shuffling his feet
in the resin, limbering with the ropes. A
roar greeted his opponent. Joe looked
him over, and felt confident. Then he
was sitting in his corner.
“On my right ... Joe Renally” . . .
The rest of it smothered by a lust of
sound.
“My left . . . Spider Coghlan” . . .
Another tearing at the eardrums.
They came forward for the inevitable
word of caution. They were back in
their corners. A bell sounded near at
hand. Joe caught Dinny’s “Feel him
out.” And then he was moving over the
canvas towards the other black-trunked
figure. There was no sound except for
the harsh slither of leather on canvas.
Joe propped a rigid left. It went out
and past the other’s shoulder. It was too
late to slide back to safety, and Joe stif-
fened the muscles to take the impact as
it thudded home on his body. He
grinned. He hadn’t expected that lead
to miss, but these skinny-looking boys
were always clever for a round or two,
and then it ended ; they got tired of
dancing around. There was plenty of
time . . . After this another fourteen
rounds. That is, if he liked to let it go
that far. He felt confident. He was in-
side a looping right and jabbing hard to
the ribs. The hiss of forced, air as the
punch made contact was pleasant in his
ears. They clinched, broke, and for the
rest of the round pawed warily at each
other.
Joe lay back while Dinny worked over
his legs. Mackey wiped gently over his
face and chest with a sponge. His breath
was coming easily. There had been no-
thing fancy in the round. It was too
early for fireworks. They were too care-
ful.
Last fight. Joe felt as good as ever.
Better. The dead lifelessness that had
been troubling him lately was gone. He
was clear-headed and clear-eyed.
The second round was his easily.
Dinny was in again like a sparrow, Joe’s
legs caught up on his own, kneading at
the muscles. “It’s in the bag, Joe. You’re
as good as ever you was. You can take
this mug when you like.”
1 OE felt that way about it himself. He
felt as he had felt in the old days. The
polish was still there. He found himself
slipping punches with ease. They were
calling his name. He was fighting
almost insolently now. Spider Coghlan,
eh? Spider! You could kill those things
by stepping on them. Joe’s left hook
made contact with the side of his head.
Spider! Shift—a jab to the body.
Spider! Sliding inside a looping right,
thudding home on the ribs. Spider!
Dancing away, out of range of retalia-
tion. Spider! Shame to take the money.
Then, so suddenly it surprised him, Joe
was tired. The hum had begun to set up
its tune in his head again. He was glad
to find his corner at the end of the round,
to feel the sponge slapping against him,
to have Dinny tease some of the ache
out of his legs. Five rounds to go.
He wasn’t timing so well. The Spider
was suddenly looming bigger. He seemed
to have shaken off a great deal of the
effects of Joe’s punches. He no longer
lagged to the centre of the ring ; he was
there with the bell, stabbing through Joe’s
defences.
A left hook smacked on the side of Joe’s
head. It stung him. He moved in, throw-
ing punches, but the Spider was sliding
away. It irritated Joe. The buzzing in
his head was more pronounced now. He
pressed in again. He wanted to trade
punches, to feel his fists smashing into the
smooth whiteness of the other’s body.
But that white shape was hard to hit,
and all the time punches were stabbing
through Joe s guard. His mouth was dry
when he went back to his corner, his
brdath coming in wheezy gulps.
HE felt better for the rest. At the
bell he came out warily, and propped
a left on the other’s shoulder. A smack
snapped to the side of his head. He
lunged forward, and felt the impact of
leather on flesh. Then there was some-
thing socking away over his heart. His
swinging arms contacted air. There was
red in his eye now, a moist red draining
from a cut. A red phantom danced out
of reach of his swinging arms.
Joe sensed the low right that started
for his body. His hands dropped. A
left clattered home on his jaw. His face
of a sudden was numb. The dopy buzz-
ing was insistent. He wanted to shut
his eyes. He shook his head, trying to
restore clarity. Somehow he was in a
corner with the Spider slugging at him.
He unleashed a punch and felt it whack
home. But it produced another flurry
in those fists that were pounding him.
He was rocking when Dinny came from
his corner to meet him.
“Stall ’im orf. You’re a couple o’
streets ahead with the points. Sure, ’e’s
won the las’ few roun’s. What of it?
You won the rest. You’re tired. Stall
’im orf, Joe.” That was Dinny.
It was funny he couldn’t see Dinny.
Funny he couldn’t see anything except
the little pool where the water had run
down from the sponge. He spat at it
and watched the color change to red.
Mackey was still pressing around him
with that sponge. Joe wanted them to
get out of his way and leave him alone.
The singing noise was filling his head.
Last fight.
The bell rang and suddenly Joe was
scared. He felt Dinny’s arms behind him
lifting him out of the seat. Then he
was advancing on that shifting patch of
white.
THEY touched hands, a meaningless
last-round gesture. Joe led towards the
shifting white and found himself carried
on to a jab that
threatened to tear his
head off. He fell into
a clinch.
“Make a fight of it.”
That was the referee.
Make a fight of it.
Joe could feel himself
tightening, trying to
force power into his
tired limbs. He was
drawn up, constricted,
hard. It was only his
eyes, the leaden misti-
ness and the buzz of
sound in his brain. He
plunged after the
white figure. One of
his punches he felt
thud home. Then
something slammed
into his solar plexus,
and all his concentra-
tion of power was
gone. He was gasp-
ing for air.
He was being hit
from every angle now.
His head rocked with
the impact of thudding
blows. One thought
alone struggled
through the pervading
deadness that was
weighing him down.
He must stay on his feet. There was no
strength in his knees. He was out— out
on his feet. He had to stay that way
The buzzing was grinding his head to
pieces. He had lost all track of the


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F- E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
M
open a
CHEQUE ACCOUNT
with the
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
If you pay your accounts by cheque you have a
record of every payment and avoid the risk of
keeping money in the house.
It is a simple matter to open a cheque account
with the Bank of New South Wales, and the
various services that the Bank makes available
to its customers will be courteously explained at
any of the Bank’s 775 branches.
It is unnecessary to keep a large credit balance.
Whenever you have a surplus of five pounds or
more you can turn it into an interest bearing
deposit.
(Joan
w c/au
ISTAIIISHtO Ia I 7
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
230 A. 1936
S?Ae. H&xf move /
„ 6
m
MJ
\
ffivVVi ■' i •.’.«iWiji,''‘
wSausts^i
',• ■•' -4mm.
mm i
A^a/ne
JS
oOalluro’s
y^-
36C
Distributors for the House of McCallunr
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Adelaide
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. * - - - Hobart
minutes. The round must' be nearly
over . . . must be.
He was conscious of the taste of blood
clotted at the back of his throat. His
hands were bunched at his face, his
forearms trying to take some of the
battering from his body. He was sway-
ing . . . swaying . . .
It was over. They were helping him
back along the aisle. Dinny, tucked up
under his arm, was breathing words of
comfort. “You was orright, Joe. It
wasn’t a race till you got tired. You
copped the decision, anyway, so what
more d’yer want?”
Joe was trying to say something. But
his throat was sore, and it was hard to
sound the words. His head felt leaden,
and the buzz high on his forehead went
on and on.
“Take it easy,” said Mackey. “You’ll
be all right in a few minutes.”
D UT Joe didn’t want to take it easy.
—' Something was throbbing its way
through his mind. Something he had to
tell them. His thoughts were being
sucked away into that buzzing channel.
He was in the dressing room and
Dinny’s hands were slapping away at the
sore spots. Joe stared at the ceiling and
tried to think. He had it at last . . .
last fight!
He had to tell them about what the
doctor had said. Punch-drunk. Jackie
Moss was punch-drunk. Jackie with his
flat face and flat look in his eyes, who
walked on his heels and had to have
things explained to him. He didn’t want
to finish up like Jackie.
He closed his eyes, trying to shut out
the dead drone in his head. Someone
was shaking his shoulder. Mackey.
The blur that was Mhckey sharpened
a little.
“Listen, Joe. I got it all fixed for a
return with the Spider. Wha’d’yer say?”
Joe’s lips flattened. Nothing seemed
important except that dull drone in his
head. Another fight—just one —couldn’t
do any harm.
“Right,” he said, “I can take that mug
any day.”
A Yam of Racing Men
BY E. PETTERS
DR. FRANK re-
leased the
filly’s off foreleg
and hesitantly ran
a practised hand
up the leg, over the
shoulder to the
withers. He turned
from his studied
regard of the
animal and ruefully faced the old horse-
man’s apprehensive gaze.
“Nothing else for it but a nice
long spell in a grazing paddock ; plenty
to eat and nothing to do. It’s the only
known remedy for a suspensory liga-
ment like that.”
Old Ted nodded dumbly. His right
boot traced the breaks in the cobbled
yard.
“Why not sell her?” the vet. went on
sympathetically. “Bred the way she is,
you might find a studmaster willing to
give a fair price for her.”
The filly snuggled her muzzle into
Ted’s cupped hand ; he could feel her
lips, soft and delicate, mouthing his palm.
He did not answer the other’s question,
but gestured dully to the wide-eyed boy
who tugged obediently on the lead. Re-
luctantly the filly wheeled and stalked
daintily after the boy, as though con-
scious of her owner’s following gaze.
“You’ve entered her for the Plate
to-morrow?” Dr. Frank asked as they
turned in the direction of the house. Ted
nodded in answer. His small, drooping
figure contrasted quaintly with the vet.’s
stalwart form.
“Johns says he’ll win with Sandal,”
the doctor continued. “I understand
there s an Indian buyer in the market for
the gelding.”
Ted grunted. “When Johns says a
thing . . . well, it might mean anything,”
he said sourly.
Dr. Frank grinned understandingly.
“Well, I’ll get along. Do as you please,
but it’s risking a breakdown to start the
filly again this season.”
The old man took a deep breath. “I’ll
scratch her from to-morrow’s race, and
put her up for sale.”
“Good man,” the vet. said approv-
ingly. “Well, so long.”
'T' ED watched him out of the yard and
1 then turned into the house. Sell the
filly ! Pay his debts. And—and let the
family keep him for the rest of his days.
With sickening certainty he realised that
there was no alternative.
In the hallway he scowled as he met
his wife, attired for an afternoon call.
She followed him into the bedroom,
where he began changing his clothes.
“When Bob comes home, tell him that
his suit and everything is laid out, Ted.
He’s speaking at the association dinner
to-night,” she said smugly.
Ted grunted as he drew his shirt over
his head. “Let’s hope it’s a better speech
than that luncheon one they broadcast.”
“What do you know about public
speaking?” she asked sharply. “Every-
one thinks a lot of Bob ; that is . . .
everyone except his father,” she added
caustically. “AH you care about is that
horse of yours. Anyway, what did Dr.
Frank say about it?” she asked keenly.
Grimly Ted told her.
“Well, now, I hope you’ll sell it,” she
said. “It’s always been a nuisance ; it
needs more nursing than a child, and
just when you get it right it goes lame.
Bob says it will never be much good,
anyway ; it’s too small. He says it’s cost
you pounds and pounds over the last two
years.” She looked up sharply. “You
don’t owe money, do you?”
Ted glared at her balefully, but made
no reply.
“Why not let
Bob buy a good
horse for you to
train?” she asked,
somewhat subdued
by his glance.
He transferred
his gaze to his
stockinged feet,
and refrained from
answering.
“You ought to consider yourself
lucky,” she went on spitefully, annoyed
by his continued silence. “It isn’t every
man is fortunate enough to have a family
willing to indulge him in his old age.”'
Ted’s grey head shot up ; his wrinkled
face was flushed as he answered: “You’d
like me to accept his offer. You want to
see me under obligation to him. He'll
never tell his flash friends that he runs
a horse just for his old man’s sake ; I’ll
see to that.”
Viciously his wife drew her coat
around her and flounced from the room.
He sighed thankfully as the door clicked
open. Then his wife spoke ; a man’s
voice answered. Frowning savagely he
went to the front door in answer to his
wife’s call.
“| —j ULLO, Johns,” he said, success
* * fully hiding his surprise. “Come
in.” Out of the corner of his eye he saw
his wife gesturing furtively in the direc-
tion of the dining-room. Maliciously he
led the way in to the best sitting-room.
Johns settled himself in an armchair and
lit a cigarette, gazing the while into the
other’s surly face.
“Well, Ted ; going to win to-morrow?”
he asked genially.
“What do you think?” the older man
countered.
Johns flicked the ash from his cigar-
ette. “I’m thinking that you need that
stake—badly. I hear you’ve had a few
pounds owing for a long time.” He
paused and eyed the other closely.
“Well?” Ted asked aggressively.
“Can’t we work this race?” Johns
asked with some diffidence. Perceiving
the sudden change in the other’s de-
meanor, he added hastily: “Nothing
crook, though.”
“It sounds like it,” Ted shot out belli-
gerently.
The other raised a hand pacifically.
“The race lies between our two. Sup-
posing you were to scratch your entry ;
we could go for a nice little win—at
short odds, certainly” . . .
Ted leant back in his chair and gaped
at the visitor. “You want me to scratch
the filly?” he asked bewilderedly.
“Yeh.” Misconstruing Ted’s astonish-
ment he added hurriedly: “Of course
we’d —I’d make it worth your while.”
Ted blinked at the slip but, steadying
himself, fixed His gaze on the other’s
flabby face.
“What’s at the back of this, Johns?”
he asked bluntly. “You’re not asking
me to believe that you’re willing to pay
to get the filly out of the way just for
the sake of a hundred-pound stake and
a little betting?”
For several seconds Johns stared
appraisingly at the older man before
explaining with a candid smile: “Well,
it’s this way ; a Calcutta businessman is
over here and he has his eye on Sandal.”
He paused while Ted absorbed this.
“Get me?”
“There’s no one else in on this?” Ted
asked.
Johns shook his head decisively.
Ted gulped. “What’s it worth to
scratch the filly?” he asked through dry
lips.
Johns avoided the other’s glance. “Half
the stake?” he suggested tentatively.
The old man smiled. “And you take
all the betting? I’ve no money to bet


m
SMI
is
mm*.
■
mm
- m
The above illustration
is of Queenstown on
Lake Wakatipu
FOR NEW ZEALAND'S MAJESTY
For sheer magnificence and grandeur of Alpine scenery no country in the world exceeds
the South Island of New Zealand. Here are the majestic Fox, Tasman and Franz Josef
Glaciers. Here, too, is glorious Fiordland, Milford Sound, the country dotted with limpid
lakes and cut by cascading rivers, also the historical waterways of the beautiful Marl-
borough Sounds. Trout and salmon flash in the mountain streams. Deer, wapiti, moose
and chamois tread the mountain trails. Come to South
Island when you come to New Zealand. All resorts are
easily reached through the historic cities of Christchurch
and Dunedin. For full particulars, write, call or 'phone:
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
14 Martin Place, Sydney. B 7043.
(Directly opposite G.P.0.)
Collins House, 360 Collins St.,
Melbourne. 'Phone Cent. 3110.
King House, 79 Queen St., Brisbane
(and all Travel Agents)
SOUTH J? ISLfI ND
with. Besides, Sandal might get beat;
the filly won’t if she’s started,” Ted
bluffed.
Johns leaned across and placed a hand
on Ted’s knee. “Sandal won’t get beat,”
he said conciliatingly. “Look, I’ll tell
you what I’ll do. I’ll pay you fifty
pounds . . . cash down.” Leaning back
in the chair he surveyed the other
benevolently. “Put that on Sandal,” he
continued, “and you’ll be able to pay
your debts next week. The money will
have to be spread carefully, and even
then the price won’t be much, but it will
fix you up.”
The older man’s face screwed tip into
a thoughtful frown. “They’re looking
doubtful at the late scratching of logical
favorites.” he said, trying hard to infuse
a little dubiety into his tone.
Johns laughed. “You’ll take it,” he
said triumphantly.
Ted swallowed hard and nodded. Tak-
ing a wad of notes from an inside pocket
Johns threw them carelessly across to
Ted, who counted them with offensive
deliberation.
“All right?” Johns asked as he rose.
“Yes, it’s all there,” Ted replied; as
they moved towards the door he stuffed
the wad into a shirt pocket. “You’re
sure no one else knows of this?”
A hurt expression manifested itself on
Johns’s fleshy countenance. “You know
me Ted ”
“Ido—pretty well,” He smiled gravely
at the other. “When you say a thing
von mean it ”
TED wriggled his small body through
1 the crush and, emerging into com-
parative calm, headed for the almost
deserted refreshment booth. As he
reached it a young man breasted the bar
alongside him and, waiting till the bar-
man had moved out of earshot, spoke,
“Johns hasn’t been near the ring. Must
have someone putting it on for him. It
looks like Radium to me. Sandal has
dntted to threes,’ while Radium has
shortened from ‘eights’ to ‘fives.’ What
do you reckon?”
Old Ted took a long draught from his
glass before replying. “That’s it ah
right,” he said, wiping his lips. “Put the
fifty pounds on Radium. Meet me here
afterwards. Hurry now.”
As the young man hurried off Ted
leisurely finished his drink and strolled
back to the betting-ring. Radium, nine
to two! Sandal, three to one!
His lips pursed in a silent whistle as he
left the ring and took up a position on
a handy rise. Johns’s frame of mind
would be anything but pleasant; of that
he was certain. He bubbled with quiet
glee as he pictured the future—that is, if
it came off, he added hastily. He was too
old a hand to anticipate apparent cer-
tainties; that weakness was for smart
mugs. But Radium had to win, other-
wise—sell the filly! . . . and be de-
pendent on others.
Already the field was filing around to
the start. Radium, a big chestnut, stood
out conspicuously; Sandal, in Johns’s
green livery, moved springily over the
turf, his boy keeping him on a tight rein,
leu starters in all.
Ted caught sight of Johns crossing
the lawn, and grinned sardonically at the
other’s clouded face. He watched him
out of sight, and then turned his atten-
tion to the field, now lining up to the
barrier. His hands, sunk deep in pockets,
were clenched and straining,
He relaxed as the field was sent away,
Radium from the rails position leapt to
the front at the jump-out, and raced to
the first turn ahead of a big bay. As they
swung around the wide, sweeping arc of
the course the bay was at Radium’s girth,
with Sandal still the centre of a streak
oi variegated ribbon. Ted watched
stolidly though his heart was beating
* asb t 1 , ,
As the field swept around the turn and
straightened up for the short run to the
P osb Radium s jockey moved. Like a
yacht swinging into the wind, the chest-
f luf l streaked away from the held, his
riding with hands and heels A
s P bt second later Sandal emerged liom
tbe P m Ptusuit. Surely he closeo
f be S a P ; s l°wly at first, but with mcreas-
laB velocity. At the distance he was at
the chestnut s girth. H.s rider s whip rose
and Wltb vicious precision.
[ eb s ‘ c * < wbb apprehension as
Sandal drew up to the chestnut. Perhaps
Johns had been honest with him.
At the half-distance Sandal had drawn
| evel . w , ith Radium ; the green jacket of
b,s Jockey was perceptibly passing the
chestnut when it happened,
0 As I thou B h flinching under punishment
Sandal moved over on Radium ; his
jockey ceased riding and pulled him off
the chestnut. Radium shot to the front
and passed the post with Sandal s nose
at bis withers.
'■pj££) seized the rail at his side for sup-
-1 port . his who]e body felt weak and
numbe d. He had kept the filly, and—
He i au g b ed weakly. For a moment he
c | ung there while his composure returned,
and then, turning, strolled sedately in the
direction of the ring,
The br ]ght young man was waiting im-
patiently for him.
“All right?” Ted asked casually,
“Averaged nearly ‘fours’,” was the
excited reply. “He started at seven to
two—equal favorite with Sandal. Here,
check up.” He stopped for breath. “It’s
well over two hundred quid. Gee, if
only you’d let me put it on when the
first move came. It would’ve been twice
as much. Well worth the risk.”
Ted looked up. “That depends on
what you’re risking, son. Here, collect
it and wait for me afterwards.”
The youngster hesitated. “Reckon
there’ll be an inquiry?” he asked curi-
ously.
“There might be. Why?”
The boy flushed at something in the
old man’s tone. “I’m all right,” he said
defensively. “Needn’t think I’m trying
to frighten you out of some of this wad.”
Resentfully he made to move off, but
halted as his companion grinned. “Yes,
son; I reckon there’ll be an inquiry.
That boy on Sandal was an artist, but
the betting will take some explaining.
Opening at even money and”
The other nodded knowingly. “It’s a
wonder they didn’t put a little on Sandal
to give the public a lead. That would
have kept the price steady.”
“Johns’s crowd reckoned on somebody
hopping in early with fifty.” Ted
answered, trying hard to keep the pride
from his voice.
Ted returned the boy’s amazed stare
with one of assumed nonchalance. “Will
they want you to explain why you
scratched your entry?” the youngster
asked.
The old man smirked knowingly and
inclined his head in the direction of the
ring. “Jump to it, son.”
GLOATING inwardly, Ted made for
the lawn. Two hundred! He
hunched his shoulders for sheer joy. They
could all go to blazes now. He d saddle
up the filly for a big sprint yet. He
glanced around as he felt his sleeve
tugged.
“The gentlemen wish to see you, sir.”
The old battler hesitated momentarily,
but over the speaker’s shoulder glimpsed
Dr. Frank in conversation with friends.
“Certainly,” he replied.
Gripping Character Study:-
BY
H. DRAKE-BROGLMAN.
HIGH up, the little clouds of spring
skipped over the fallowed shoulder
of the hill, curving brown and naked
from out a blossom-gilded garment of
jam-scrub. Gay as kids at play, the
clouds looked ; or like sea-foam flying
on the wind ; or like white feathers, or
tufts of scoured wool: “Though your
sins be red like crimson, they shall be
as wool” . . .
He’d heard that somewhere, had
Lancelot Jones. It pleased him. He
knew about white wool: hadn’t he once
visited a scouring-works? And hadn’t
he been surprised at those cloudy piles
of softness, so white that he’d found
trouble to believe they’d ever looked the
same as the greasy fleeces he’d shorn, off
and on, whenever he could get a chance
in the sheds! He’d not really believed
till he got the stuff between his fingers:
but it was wool, all right. So soft, so
clean. He could get the feel of it still.
But if he wanted to take Jess to the
pictures, and stop that red-headed cow
Weston from horning in, he must fetch
his eyes back from the clean woolly
clouds in the sky
to the wool at his
feet.
“Dead wool,”
this. It was get-
ting on the ripe
side for picking;
when Lancelot
pulled up a tuft
the maggots had to
be belted off. They
slithered and
gleamed with filthy life in empty eye-
sockets, so that the dead sheep seemed
to watch his hands with horrible sus-
picion.
He didn’t cotton on to picking
“dead wool” anyhow. It was a
thing he hadn’t done before. It
wasn’t a white feller’s job at all!
And, until now, Lancelot Jones had
always thought of himself as a
white man. Not' consciously maybe;
his conscious thoughts were generally
simple affairs concerned with direct
action. Or had been till he found Jess.
Still, he’d only ever done white fellers’
jobs ; trapped rabbits, or got a bit of
shearing or fencing. He’d left the few
bob that could be raised by hunting out
dead sheep in the paddocks and strip-
ping the wool off them to the abos. and
lazy cows who hung round the encamp-
ment all day, only wanting tobacco.
Neither had he before sorted out in his
mind any reason as to why he’d always
preferred to prop up the posts of the
pub, listening, sometimes dropping in a
word, to talk of crops and stock, weather
and racing, rather than spend evenings
lying by the campfire playing euchre,
chewing or smoking or going after girls.
GIRLS hadn’t interested Lancelot
much till Jess turned up one morn-
ing, with her old mother and a swarm of
brothers and sisters dark as Lancelot
himself. They’d come in on a wet morn-
ing, a bedraggled little group, the mother
carrying the smallest kid, three boys with
clothes ragged even by camp standards,
a pair of giggling girls—and Jess. They’d
got their dogs and a couple of billycans
with them, and a swag of bags and rugs
which Jess humped on her back. Lance-
lot wouldn’t have looked twice, though
most of the mob crowded round curious.
Groups like this often drifted from
camp to camp. They didn’t usually
worry Lancelot, or interest him either —
but Jess! Jess was as good as white!
To look at; it didn’t occur to Lancelot
that the mind of Jess could be any less
white than her skin, considering he used
his own white mind as standard of
measure, set against the fact that his
hands, busy now over the sheep’s car-
cass, were the warm deep color of un-
burnished copper. Jess had a way of
rolling her earth-rich eyes, a way of
flinging back a quick answer and a
rippling laugh, which fairly knocked him
out. You couldn’t walk down the main
street beside Jess without all the white
fellers, cockies and bagmen and all, turn-
ing round for a second eyeful.
The young bucks in the camp hung
round, too. It was a marvel to Lancelot
that Jess had reached the age she had
without getting a baby: but Jess had
her heart set on a pile of things the men
in the camp couldn’t give her! She’d
even taken a job once on a farm. She
told Lancelot her mistress chased her
because the boss used to go too often
into the kitchen. Actually, she’d been
sacked because she wouldn’t work. Jess
felt the same way over work as the
fellows Lancelot despised, the ones who
hung round and did nothing, and didn’t
want to. But, in Lancelot, Jess was quick
to realise she’d found a man eager to
work for her. She began going into the
town with him, pointing out what she
wanted, like a blue silk dress and a wrist
watch, and to*go every Saturday night
to the pictures.
nr HE town went to Jess’s head. Hitherto
I she’d lived further out, on the edge
of settlement, till they reckoned they’d


ConMiiLN i
i ozac
k
This
ConUln
brings you everything
that’s new in pens.
Every important new detail of
design, construction and per-
formance developed by the
fountain pen industry is
embodied in the CONKLIN
NOZAC in tested forms that
provide the maximum of
writing performance and
dependability.
Priced at 30/- and 40/-.
Pencils to Match, 25/-.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Sackless,
Visible ink Supply.
The Word Gauge (exclusively
Conklin).
Speedy, Unfailing Mechanical
Ciller.
Modish Colours of Mew
Design.
Improved > T ib with Friction-
less Point.
Advanced Styling.
Sensible Prices.
From all. Stationers, Jewellers
and Departmental Stores.
Foremost in the
Metropolis
THE
TELEGRAPH
Queensland’s Premier Newspaper
A nndunces
A Unique
Achievement
Latest circulation figures
show beyond all doubt that
“The Telegraph” predomi-
nates in the whole of the
Greater Brisbane Area.
No wonder that
Local Advertisers prefer
“The Telegraph
Queensland Owned and Controlled.
Greatest in Greater Brisbane.
©
by
UNION
LINE
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ... 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
«m
h) fall //f >
ftWMCCOULQ
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney*. . .
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from £5.
Full
particulars
from
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand,
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
hookings
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
move in to another camp and see if they
liked it better. Her mother wanted the
kiddies to go to school. But they hadn’t
been allowed, any more than in the old
district: white folks wouldn’t stand for
having them at school with their own
children. So the kiddies hung round the
camp, too, and threw sticks for the dogs
and scratched their heads and just grew up
without any learning of either corroboree
ritual or arithmetic. Half of them,
maybe, didn’t care ; but the other half
were like Lancelot Jones, who minded
very much because he couldn’t read
everything that came his way.
Lancelot minded, too, when Jess
wanted to go to the pictures and he had
no money to take her. Work had been
scarce all winter. And it was a case of
getting quick money after that red-
headed cow Weston lounged out of the
pub, right across the road to where
Lancelot stood beside Jess, and sang out:
Hi, you, Lance, who’s yer lady friend?
Wontcher intrerduce me?”
Jess glowed golden warm as a rising
moon. Told the young cocky she was
new to the district, sent that laugh of
hers rippling across the road and disturb-
ing the rhythm of Lancelot’s pulse ; and
°t Weston’s, too, by the way he looked.
. I’m goin’ to the pictures Saturday,”
said Weston. “You bet I am. Come
with me, eh? How about it?”
Before Jess could compose her smiling
lips to answer, Lancelot cut in: “Not on.
your life! She’s coming with me!”
Afterwards, when they’d left Weston,
Jess got mad. Lancelot had to spend his
last bob buying her nut chocolate. But
that night he got her to wander away
from the camp into the bush, the spring
bush, honey sweet; and they lit them-
selves a little fire. And Jess was his ;
and there had never been any other man,
black or white; and for Lancelot the
night sang with triumph, and the whole
world belonged to him, ready to lay at
the feet of Jess, white and delicately
resting like spider-orchids in the grass.
He would take her to the pictures on
Saturday ; he would buy her a blue dress
and a gold watch. He would get a job ;
they’d rent a house and keep their kids,
their jolly white kids, out of all the
camps . . .
ED UT he’d not been able to get a job.
Not even a morning’s work chop-
ping wood or gardening or doing any-
thing. And here was Thursday and he
had only a Government ration of food
and a striped “nigger” blanket; and he’d
promised to take Jess to the pictures
Saturday night! If he didn’t
Weston was still in town. On the
scoot. Lancelot had run into him again.
He’d rolled up, gammoning friends.
“ ’Lo, Lance. Come-an’-’ave-a-drink?”
he’d grunted. “An’ tell ush where in the
name of shufferin saints you picked up
that bit of yoursh—she’s the peachiesh I
sheen fer months! ” Then he stopped ;
done it deliberately, ragged Lancelot. And
went on with slow relish: “Oh, shorry,
I forgot. You’re conshidered abo., and
the cop’ud have it in fer yoursh truly if
I encourashed abos. ter drink . . . Your
bad luck!”
He reeled off laughing. Lancelot felt
his hands clench inside his empty pockets.
Impulse swept through him like fire,
impulse to fight Weston with his fists,
like a white man, to knock those words
back into the fat, sneering lips, down
the thick throat . . . Instead, Lancelot
slouched away, the spring gone from his
step, hands suddenly slack in empty
pockets . . .
“Hi, Lance!” The hail had brought
him up short. He glanced round and
saw old man Taylor sitting in his rusty
car. “You want a job?” That brought
Lancelot up taut and strong again, so
taut that old man Taylor was suddenly
reminded of cattle-shipping days, of the
way an obstinate bullock jumped alive at
touch of the battery. He leaned out of
his mudstained old bus, grinning. “Don’t
mean ter say you really wanter work ?”
“Too right I do!” Lancelot grinned
back. Didn’t he just want to work?
“I got some fencing. Work on your
own?”
“You bet, Mister Taylor. When —to-
morrow?”
“No hurry, Lance. Start next week.
See you out at my place Monday. Glad
to have run into you, Lance ; you’re a
steady sort of a coot. Tucker and ten
bob a week do you?”
“All right,” agreed Lance. A job was
a job —he and Jess could manage. “Sup-
pose”—— He hesitated. “See here,
boss, might be I have my woman,” he
began.
Old man Taylor laughed, genial. “A
married man now, eh, Lance? Well,
bring her along ; I won t mind. She
might do the washing fer the missus
“Might be.” Again Lancelot hesi-
tated. Yet he and heard many a white
man do the same, so why not? I say,
boss”—he got the words out tripping over
each other ; he and never asked for ticrv
before I say, how about a few bob to
8° on whh?
Now look here, Lance, if you re get-
ting like the rest of your mob you
needn’t come whining to me fer work.”
He hadn’t gone whining, thought
Lancelot hotly—he’d been asked! Yet
he said quickly, seeing job and Jess
whisked together from his grasp; “All
right, boss. Only because—well, it’s been
a cow of a winter” . . .
“Here’s a coupla bob then,” said
Taylor, feeling a good fellow. “Shows
what I think of you, Lance ; there’s not
many I’d do that for.”
DUT a couple of bob wasn’t enough.
LJ Not nearly enough to get Jess all
b ® wanted by Saturday night!
Nothing remained but “dead wool.”
So here was he, Lancelot Jones, squat-
ting on his haunches plucking a stink-
ing carcass, with one eye on the little gay
clouds and a little native song—one he’d
learnt from his mother—running in his
heart and spilling softly over to his lips,
This once, just this once, he’d pick “dead
w °° l ” like an r T nigger-just this once in
order to B et Jess what she wan ted. Jess
was beautl ful. Jess was white. Jess was
hi s' And for Monday he had a real job,
a ’’f “® fd ? er s job ;. and he little clouds
W ere skipping over the hill clean as new-
droppe/fambs . . .
~, . , .
He stood U P> grabbing a handful of
c l° ver as be rose - He stood watching the
sk V> wi P in 8 slim fingers on the grass,
Broad of shoulder, slender of hip and
tbi g b > strong as the silver coils of wire
waiting to test his strength at Taylor’s
farm - Th,ck blue sbirt > ba 88 ed coat >
trousers patched and rent could not blur
altogether the grace of him. Neither
coulcl the dark skin, the broad nose, the
dee P> dark e V es ’ the protruding jaw
shadow the lift and flow of his white
rnind . . .
He stretched ; and, gathering the filthy
wool together, shoved it into (he chaff-
bag at his feet. Five sheep he’d found.
£ nd wa ' k “‘ ra . ore . ,ba " * en ™ le , s '
Not s 0 bad : , W,dl lu . ck hed > abk . °
dress Sto,he one
~, V 1 , ,1 ,
shed adm ’i cd at ,be store. Whistling, he
S™ ng th f bag •? hs shoulder, picked up
! he axe he and fetched in case there had
been no dead sheep and bed had to cut
a load of wood in hopes of selling it, and
walked off down the hill on springing
heels. Up in the sky the little gay clouds
began to turn pink, like a white girl
blushing,
x r <. u , ,■ ■ .
N t r ,f u m Iw- S
' N thought he ,? u g L‘
SOme ” rabbit-traps. It hadn t been
an . y f ood hav,ng ™ good traps, by
cr,pes! Sobe ? topp f and wb,st ' mg h ’ and ’
T vlng ? n ba . re feel ’ ‘ ur , ned oft ,hrough
be scrub ’ . Th = re used ° be a wa f n ’
bc remembered, a real corker of a
warren, just across the hill.
irioved quietly into a thicket of
j am _t rees heavily golden with blossom,
dark timh „ r and dark ]eaves f as hioninP
dark an , Park leaves tasniomng
fin g m e?s S T?het„ on, cmS e g"t b?
showers of blossom falling honey-sweet,
like ram of golden caterpillars. Pink and
ever.aftings rustleS softly in pro-
test at his moving feet. He began to
gather a bunch of blue orchids to take
back to the camp for Jess. Everywhere
(hey peeped up like little blue eyes from
(he pink-and-white face of the flowery
earth, or hovered like blue butterflies, or
glinted like bits of the sky picked out to
make new stars and tossed carelessly to
earth ... or like blue silk snippings cut
from the dress which Jess would soon be
wearing
°
. , • ~ . ,
I ANCELOT had quite a sizable bunch
L of orchids, held llong with the chaff-
bag o£ .. dead woo|> „ b b y , he , ime he
wa |ked round on them,
Sudden, that finding. Round the
corner G f a granite outcrop, in a kind of
dell, green with rock-fern, he came on
them. In just such another spot as he
himself had found to light a little fire,
There they were, too absorbed to hear
(he warning whisper of everlastings
against Lancelot’s feet: the man’s red
head bent above the girl. A dark flow
0 f hair, a patch of silk blue as orchids,
and a hand, a hand creamy and sweet
a s set milk, resting on the red head—
and Lancelot’s eyes focused, riveted,
blazed on a gold watch encirclin" that
wrist of ivory . . .
Orchids and wool slithered on to
shivering everlastings . . .
It happened in a moment. In a
moment it was all over, quickly, on im-
pulse fierce as bushfire. All in a moment
—just as quick as the axe had swung to
life in Lancelot’s hands, quick as a
thrown kylie or a singing spear. One
blow for Weston; he fell like a bullock.
Another for Jess as she shrieked —God!
as she shrieked and tried to pull herself
from dead arms.
“Though your sins be red like crim-
son they shall be as wool” . . .
Red like crimson . . .
By white man’s law, thought Lancelot,
staring, these were his sins . . . And
they were crimson—even the flowery
earth was turning crimson!
By white man’s law, he’d swing for his
sins.
Crimson . . . But his wool was “dead
wool,” stinking, no good unless you had
a white man’s scouring works to make it
come clean. And he wasn’t a white man.
For the first time to-day he’d realised it.
Yet he wasn’t a black man either or he’d
not be staring weakly at his just ven-
geance and feeling his heart jump up
inside his neck!
He was nothing; just nothing, a
creature without place, the standards of
his dark blood befouled by civilisation,
the urgings of his white brain by civilisa-
tion denied.
Silver Songs.
Dew-fresh jonquil, star of jade twilight,
And time’s frail undertone
Tremble into silver songs, haunting
As sounds from sea-shell blown,
Softly returning.
Delicate the spell you caught tangled
In netting from the moon
Leaf-scrolled patterns of pale dreams
found in
No cloudy night or noon,
Brazenly burning.
You have stolen strains of Pan’s music
To flute a dancing fawn ;
Threnodies of loveliness fading
From the shy greens of dawn,
And young love’s yearning.
N.S.W.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


CAanofof Jiucfe mu* Aave
HYDRAULIC BRAKES
FULL FLOATING
BACK AXLE
ALL-STEEL SEDAN
TYPE SAFETY CAB
S *DAL. Sr &
mJA
K
m
asm
gx?"'
: •#.
SsSisSiss -
FULt
1
*LO
ft
b Ack' Ng
IP
<n
y * mm-
-7
Chevrolet—with the engine that never needs
replacing (it lasts the lifetime of the truck) now
brings you three more money making
features at not one penny greater cost.
HYDRAULIC BRAKES -Self-equalising, self-
energising giving safe, sure “square-on” stopping
under all conditions of weather and load.
FULL-FLOATING BACK AXLE with
straddle-mounted pinion. Perfect accessibility to
rear assembly and constant crown wheel align-
ment. Barrel-type roller rear wheel bearings are
self-adjusting to varying loads.
ALL STEEL SEDAN TYPE SAFETY CAB-
with leather upholstered, weatherproof sedan
comfort. Narrow side pillars and angled “Armour-
plate” safety glass windscreen for reassuring safety.
OTHER FEATURES— Chevrolet’s famous 6
cylinder long life engine for more power at less
cost. Chevrolet’s cushion-disc type clutch. Chev-
rolet’s springs—long tough and“ Kind-to-the load.”
Chevrolet’s frame stayed with Alligator Jaw Cross
Members. Chevrolet service and spare parts,
readily available everywhere, minimising delays
when overhauls eventually come due.
CHASSES PRICES
Chevrolet 6 Utility £223 30 cwt. truck .. £282
Master de Luxe Util. £254 2 ton .. .. £297
18 cwt. Commercial £227 “Maple Leaf” .. £315
.4(1 prices plus sales tax.
Easy to buy under G.M.A.C. Plan of Deferred Payments.
See it at your local dealers l
Prove it yourself on the road l
GENERAL MOTOR S—II OLDEN’S LTD.
— “ r ~ •
CHEVROLET
NOW WITH NEW PERFECTED HYDRAULIC BRAKES.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET
DIALER
C 398-27
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia.
It MIGHT HAVE BEEN Accepted
Make sure that your MS. is in workmanlike
form when it comes to the editor. A good
story can easily miss if it is badly set out.
Neatly typed MS., double-spaced for easy read-
ing, is a necessity in these days of intense
competition. You can do it easily, quickly and
conveniently on an Underwood Portable, the
writers’ best friend. Give your work every
chance of being accepted—write to-day to
STOTT & UNDERWOOD, LTD., 16 Hunter
Street, Sydney, for details of our special easy
payment plan. '
ZTlvz newJlabk tnakcb
POW D E R
EASY TO USE
Dentists know that
POWDER cleans
teeth better than
anything. Calvert’s
Tooth Powder comes
to you in an Airflow
Flask, a new kind
of package which is
ever so much easier
to use than ordinary
tins or tubes.
SXU ! Ai VJ
EASY TO USE
F. C. Calvert & Co.. Ltd.
Ed gland.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Carwyne: The planetesimal theory or the
nebular hypothesis would bore 999 readers out
of a thousand... .G.E.L.: Punch and plot both
missing M.C.: Rather too melodramatic.
W.M.: Nicely handled, but not strong
enough to get through L.O’D.: Doctor’s
suicide has no effect on the first part of the
story... .M.McI.: Not badly done, but unsuit-
able... .J.C.: No niche for fantasy on “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” J.D.L.: Not
enough in it... .N.8.T.: That hero is so
poisonous a prussic-acid cocktail wouldn’t
harm him....W.N.: You’re as persistently late
with topical skits as an air-mail letter
J.R.W.: First part good, but you leave it up
in the air with a weak ending J.McL.: Not
bad character study, but plot on the weak
side E.P.M.: Excellent bush atmosphere, but
hardly a story H.J.M.: Fleard that one be-
fore... .8.L.: Small plot choked with weedy
verbiage... .J.8.D.: “Boomerang Flight” is on
the return half of its journey J.R.: Triangu-
lar problem too theatrical J.M.: Unreal
G.P.D.: Setting too far away; theme too slight
to hold general appeal W.M.S.: Weak as
watered blancmange J.L.: Old as a society
leader’s press photo F.R.F.: Like drink-
ing champagne out of a battered mug
Bumble: Keep that up and we’ll be calling
you a bee G.G.: Even if you hadn’t tried
to rhyme “lady” with “maybe” it would have
been pushed aside G.J.: Walt Whitman
might have got over with that sort of verse;
you can’t... .E.R.MI: Without being doggerel
it’s far from being rippling verse.... R.U.:
Were there a booby prize, you’d have won it
this week... .G.T.: There was material for a
snappy bit of jingle in that, but you made a
poor fist of it L.L.: You’re no epigramma-
tist... .G.G.: “Please return if rejected.” But,
failing an address, how can we? J.D.: It
had some readings. But “roasted meat” and
“uncontaminated air” were too heavy handicaps
for even a bush ballad M.C.M.: You’re
excused, being “only 17.” In any case, you
may trust us to “keep your identity a secret.”
. ...M.J.: Sounds like an indifferent parody,
even if we were familiar with the original
J.E.D.: We’ve heard South Africa’s National
Anthem, but it beats us how it could suit
Australia V.K.: Faint glimmer of future
promise G.W.: “Average” is a long way
below it K.D.: Abstemious prelate might
have written it, if partially intoxicated....
LJ.H.: We can do nothing with them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.G.: You lack humor and the ability to
draw a human being A.M.L.: Please, why
is Joe Lyons standing on his head on the top
of Mount Kosciusko? ... .P. 8.: You’re half a
century too late with that jest A.J.D.: Gag
is a feeble pun, and the drawing suggests infan-
tile scratches on a slate R.J.: There is hope
for you if you attend a life class L.S.:
Visit the Zoo and have a good look at the
giraffe... .M.M.: Threadbare gag; down-at-
heels sketch... .V.R.: Linework too fine
for reproduction and contrast between tones
not sharp enough W.T.: Poster-size sketch
of a balloon being struck by lightning, minus
any explanatory text. What’s the idea? We
aren’t thought-readers E.J.: Wheeze first
saw the light in the ’nineties R.C.J.: Evi-
dence of careful drawing; too lifeless for use.
. ...T.W.A.: A sheer waste of good Bristol
board... .P.P.: What the dingo said to the ’roo
doesn’t make amusing reading C. 8.5.: The
artist can draw fairly well for his years, but
is far from print standard... .A.N.: Eight-nine-
out H.BJ.: Poses good, gags tolerable;
scratchy linework ruled them out S.C.D.:
That sea of blots, smudges and half-hearted
erasures made us reach instinctively for the
basket R.8.W.: Yes, we are always pre-
pared to consider original gags without draw-
ings... .A.G.H.: Your Binghi looks more like
an Abyssinian warrior... .K.S.: No hope for
the angular schoolmarm and the pupil who
confuses maternity with eternity D.H.W.:
Summer is always heralded by the arrival of
that blowfly-and-grace gag....5.C.: We can
understand your reluctance to attach your
signature to such atrocities T.J.N.: It cost
us 4d. for deficient postage and proved a bad
investment G.H.M.: A milk-and-water gag
and an anaemic sketch.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Xo”: Keas from Maoriland’s South-
ern Alps have been sent to the Berlin
Zoo and (for the first time) survived the
long voyage to the Old World. Parrot-
like birds with powerful, hooked beaks,
keas are a plague to sheepmen with
runs in high South Island country. The
runholders would be delighted if the
Berlin consignment were to start an
overseas zoo fashion.
* * * *
“El V.”: Bishop Thomas James Wade,
who has gone to the North Solomons,
is about the only U.S.A.-born bishop on
the Australian side of the Pacific. Edu-
cated at a seminary in Washington, D.C.,
and sent almost at once to Kieta, he be-
came a bishop at 37. He is a fine speaker,
and has a pretty wit which has not been
damped out of existence by the peren-
nial perspiration which afflicts everybody
round Buka Passage.
* * * *
“O.B.”: H. M. Ridge, a director of
Anglo-Australian Gold Development, is
revisiting Westralia after 31 years. He is
an old Barrier mining man, and inventor
of Ridge’s furnace. He thinks there are
good chances of locating further im-
portant ore deposits in Westralia as a
result of new prospecting methods, but
considers that the raising of further
capital for goldmining should be limited
to properties recommended by qualified
mining engineers.
* * * *
“Fleet-street”: I suppose the Corona-
tion will put a lot of money into circu-
lation besides furnishing a deal of pic-
turesque pageantry, but it does seem to
me that much of the mediaeval flummery
and mummery attached to it is utterly
out of place in this enlightened age.
Take the anointing with holy oil, for
instance, a ceremony performed by the
Primate. In days when people believed
in the divine right of kings, something
might have been said for it; what is it
now but an unctuous anachronism? I
have always had a certain respect for
William IV., who, as a monarch, hasn’t
had many bouquets thrown at him, be-
cause he put' his foot down on one item
in the Coronation programme submitted
to him. He said he could stand a good
deal, but he was d d if he was going
to be kissed by a whole crowd of
bishops—apparently before “Sailor
Billy’s” time sovereigns were expected to
undergo this ordeal at the lips of a score
or two of gaitered divines. His advisers
represented that his decision would be
a grave breach of precedent, but William
refused to give way. That marked the
end of wholesale episcopal osculation on
such occasions ; for which his successors
should surely feel grateful to William.
*
“Heru”: Touching on the lasting
qualities of timber. The first wreck on
the Maoriland coastline was that of the
Endeavour, in Oct., 1795. An old East
Jndiaman, she was bound from Sydney
on a sealing expedition. Nearing Dusky
Sound she showed signs of breaking up,
and was put into Facile Harbor, where
she foundered. In 1923 a friend of mine
spotted a row of stones under water,
which proved to be the Endeavour’s
ballast. Grappling with a boat hook at
low water he managed to recover some
boards. These, after 128 years’ submer-
sion and a further 13 years out of water,
are still in perfect preservation and
testify to the durability of Indian teak.
That Endeavour was not Captain Cook’s
vessel.
**. * *
“Moz”: Thanks to Uncle Sam Rocke-
feller, an anthropological expedition re-
cently visited Central Australia under
recently-knighted Professor Stanton
Hicks to investigate how naked abos.
keep warm under extreme climatic con-
ditions. Binghi, it was discovered, is
unique in that he adjusts himself to the
changing temperatures by a nervous con-
trol of the blood vessels to his skin,
rather than by calling into play chemi-
cal means of increasing bodily heat, as
does the average European. Whether this
nervous control is similar to the tumo, or
“psychic heat,” of the Indian Yogi is
another thing. These Indians undergo
a test that, would kill an ordinary white
man. Choosing a frosty moonlit night
when a bitterly cold wind is blowing, they
sit naked in the snows and by the
frozen lakes in the Himalayas and then
have a sheet dipped in icy-cold water
wrapped around them. When the sheet
is dried by means of heat from the body,
it is again dipped in water. This goes on
until daybreak, and he who has dried the
most sheets is declared a pukka Yogi.
Myself, I prefer the eiderdown test.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart lot the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
Tiust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
used to typing MS., wants work. —3347.
Mining and engineering blacksmith, used to
all classes of mining machinery, machine drills,
motor repairs, and oxy acetylene work, wants
employment anywhere, Islands or hot climate
preferred.—33s3.
. Pensioner (65), N.S.W., active ship’s carpen-
ter, exp. in yacht repairs, painting and sail-
making, seeks employment as caretaker, etc.
Own tools. —3340.
Journalist commencing a five years’ caravan
tour of Australia about April, 1937, wishes to
get into communication with editors of weekly
journals in all countries with view to placing
articles dealing with social and industrial life
encountered.—33os.
Wanted, for bush children, used 3d. and Is.
S.A. centenary stamps, or other Aust. stamps
with legible postmarks if possible.—33o2.
To buy Up and Down (1879) and Glimpses
of the Australian Colonies (1903), by Capt.
Wm. Jackson Barry ; also old M.L. books. —
3304.
Information Sought.
(1) What place has Sydney among British
Empire cities (exclusive of India) ? (2) Among
those of the English-speaking world? —3189.
(1) Second place. (2) London 8,202,818,
New York 6,930,446, Chicago 3,376,438, Phila-
delphia 1,950,961, Detroit 1,568,662, Sydney
1,235,000.
* * >!t *
Number of troops raised, number sent over-
seas, total casualties, number killed, died and
missing, and percentage of casualties to
numbers engaged of United Kingdom, Canadian
and Australian troops in the; war? —3253.
United Kingdom: Troops raised, 5,704,416;
sent overseas, 5,000,000; casualties, 2,626,743;
killed, died and missing, 1,010,001; percentage
casualties to numbers engaged, 52j p.c.
Canada: 628,964; 411,834; 210,151; 60,425;
51 p.c. Australia: 416,809; 330,000; 226,073;
59,258; 68i p.c.
* * * *
Whereabouts in the world does the highest
rise and fall of tide occur ? —3277.
The highest rise and fall of tide is probably
in the Bay of Fundy, an arm of the Atlantic
Ocean, separating Nova Scotia from New
Brunswick, where the range from low to high
tide is between 60ft. and 70ft.
* * * *
(1) What is the age of the earth ? (2) Its
density ? (3) Of what is the centre of the earth
composed ? (4) Is it in a liquid state ? —3349.
(1) Latest scientific estimates place its age at
between 1000 and 5000 million years. (2)
Broadly the composition of the world is 50
p.c. oxygen, 27 p.c. silicon, 8 p.c. aluminium,
15 p.c. iron, which gives a density of 2.02, but
absolute density is much greater owing to
enormous pressure. (3) Probably of metallic
iron and nickel. (4) Evidence shows that the
pressure keeps the barysphere solid in spite of
its high temperature.
* * * *
Origin of the leopard skin as worn by
drummers in military bands? —3373.
After the capture of Guadeloupe (1759),
Admiral Boscawen sent 10 “nigger boys” to his
brother, colonel of the 29th Foot, who had
them trained as drummers. The custom spread
rapidly throughout the army until nearly every
regiment had its negro drummer. The
drummer’s leopard skin is said to be trace-
able to the jungle clothing of these negroes.
* # * *
Derivation and meaning of the word
“bloke” ? —3276.
Originally English thieves’ slang, used to
denote an easy victim. Probably derived from
the Dutch blok, meaning a block, a log, a
fool, or from its derivative, blokker, a dull
fellow, from which latter the English block-
head is also believed to derive.
* * * *
(1) Is the habit of discarding their tails when
handled shared by all lizards which do not have
scales on their bodies or by only one or two
varieties ? (2) Has the lancehead lizard, or
“spinifex snake,” visible legs ? —3223.
(1) The lizards which discard their tails when
handled are geckos, there being many species
widely distributed throughout Australia. Geckos
have small scales which might not be very
conspicuous. (2) The lance-headed or legless
lizard has rudiments of hind legs which, ex-
ternally, appear as a scale, one each side of the
body where it joints the tail.
* * * *
(1) In what year did Reginald Roberts, vaude-
ville singer, make his first appearance in Aus-
tralia ? (2) Was he the first professional to sing
“After the Ball” in Australia; if so, date ?
3254.
(1) At Adelaide, October, 1902, as Wilder
in “Dorothy.” H 9 was an opera-singer, not
a vaudeville performer. (2) He sang “After
the Ball” in “Peep Show” years ago, but the
original singer of the song in Australia was
Charles Godfrey, a famous vaudeville artist,
who came out to the Tivoli circuit under Harry
Rickards’s management many years ago.
* * * *
When a J.P. is asked to witness my signature
on a statutory declaration does he merely
witness the signature or should he make him-
self acquainted with the contents of the docu-
ment ? —3215.
He should read the declaration to the person
about to sign it and see, as far as possible,
that he understands the responsibility.
* * * *
Aboriginal name meaning beautiful outlook
or long view or otherwise suitable for a cottage
on a river bank, with a view extending to the
mountains ? —3OOl.
Milleara, “to see at a distance”; Coolan-
gatta, “a splendid view”; Yuruga, “extensive
view”; Murrabar, Marumbar and Merinda,
“beautiful” ; Gundamain, “house on a stream”;
Cabarita, “by the water.”
s£ * * *
Derivation of Inisfail, a poetical name for
Ireland ? —3196.
Derived from Faul or Lia-fail, the stone
identified in Irish legend with that on which
Jacob slept when he dreamed of the heavenly
ladder. The lia-fail was supposed to have been
taken to Ireland by the Dedannans and set up
at Tara as the “inauguration-stone” of the
Irish Kings.
* * * *
Whereabouts are the Schouten Islands ?
Area, population, exports and imports? —3182.
They are a large archipelago to the north 9!'
Dutch New Guinea. Area, 660 sq. m. Main
centres Biak and Soepiori. Population of
about 25,000 belongs to the Papuan race, but
there is a mixture of foreign elements, especi-
ally from Ternate and the Celebes. Much
trade is carried on with New Guinea and the
Moluccas. Exports are damar, trepang, shells,
ebony, ironwood and cane. Imports include
rice, sago, knives, etc.
; ! ; *I : v *•'
What country owns the Galapagos Islands ?
Also a few other brief particulars about them ?
—3337.
They belong to Ecuador. A group of volcanic
islands in the Pacific, having an area of 2868
square miles, they were officially renamed the
Colon Archipelago in 1892. Their original name
derived from the fact that they formerly
abounded with giant tortoises, galapagos being
Spanish for tortoise. Sugar products, sulphur
and guano are the chief exports. The popula-
tion is about 2000.
:J: * * ❖
Particulars of the massacre of German mis-
sionaries in New Britain about 30 years ago ?
—3265.
On the morning of August 13, 1904, at the
German Roman Catholic industrial mission
village of St. Paul, on the Gazelle Peninsula,
New Britain, a mission boy, Tomario, assisted
by natives from the Beining mountains, mur-
dered nine of the missioners, including five
women. Another priest was killed at his station
a few miles farther inland immediately after.
Tomario, who had planned the rising, gave
the signal by shooting Father Rascher, the head
of the mission, while he was lying on his bed
reading.
jJ; JjC
What is the stamp duty on bills of exchange
in Australian States ? Is there any extra duty on
a foreign bill ? —3303.
N.S.W.: Payable on demand 2d., otherwise
than on demand for every £25 or frac-
tional part 6d. Vic.: On demand l|d., other-
wise than demand the duty is graduated from
2s. for sums up to £25, then in rises of Is. for
each £25 beyond up to £lOO. Q’land: On de-
mand 2d., otherwise Is. for each £5O or part.
S.A.: On' demand, if under £2, Id., if £2
or over 2d. W.A.: On demand 2d. where
amount does not exceed £5O, where it exceeds
that amount up to £5O Is., exceeds £5O up to
£lOO 25., then for every £5O or fractional part
in excess Is. Tas.: Not exceeding £25 6d.,
every additional part thereof 6d. This State
draws a distinction in the case of foreign bills.
If drawn in sets of two then for each bill one-
half, and if in sets of three or more then for
each bill one-third of the stamp duty as on an
inland bill of the like amount. Probably a
somewhat similar practice is followed in the
other States.
* * * *
(1) What is white cement ? (2) Connection
with terrazzo cement work ? (3) Does a com-
pany manufacture white cement in Adelaide;
address ? (4) Are any pamphlets on white
cement and its uses available ? —3257.
(1) Portland cement color varies with the
iron content of the clay or shale which forms
part of the materials from which cement is
manufactured. White cement is a pure Port-
land cement in which the raw materials are
selected so as to contain the minimum of iron.
(2) Yes, where colored terrazzo work is re-
quired. (3) There was a proposal to manufac-
ture cement in Adelaide, but it was not gone
on with. (4) White cement, being true Portland
cement, is used in exactly the same way as ordi-
nary grey cement. Literature on white cement
only is available from Dickson, Primer and
Co., 73 Day-street, Sydney, or literature on
grey cement and its uses from the Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Association, 43 Mar-
garet-street, Sydney.
* # * *
I wish to instal a small house-lighting plant
in a country homestead. (1) Would a small
petrol or kerosene engine be preferable to a
water turbine or a wind-driven generator ? (2)
Most suitable voltage for the dynamo ? (3)
Must the dynamo be: located near the house or
can it be placed in a shed some distance away ?
—3360.
(1) An internal-combustion engine is in most
cases most suitable, costing much less than a
turbine and not being dependent upon varia-
tions of water supply. A wind-driven generator
is satisfactory in localities where a certain wind
velocity can be guaranteed for a sufficiently long
period to charge up the accumulators. (2)
Depends upon the size of the installation; 32
is the usual voltage. (3) The dynamo should
be placed as near the house as possible, as the
greater the distance between the dynamo and
the house the greater the loss in voltage over
the lines.
* * * *
Particulars of Prize Play Competition being
conducted by the Dramatists’ Club, Mel-
bourne ? —3156.
(1) Prize, £lO 10s. (2) All plays must run
for approximately two hours, including inter-
vals, and must be typewritten and securely
bound. (3) Only plays which have not been
published or professionally produced will be
considered, and the Dramatists’ Club reserves
for 12 months the right to publish the winning
play. (4) Author’s nom de plume only must
appear on each script, but name and address
and pen-name must be enclosed in a sealed
envelope. (5) With each play submitted ss.
must be sent, and entries must reach secretary,
Dramatists’ Club, Box 904, G.P.0., Melbourne,
not later than March 10, 1937. (6) The com-
petition is restricted to Australian-born drama-
tists.
* * * *
(1) How is alcohol made from sweet
potatoes ? (2) Capital required to commence
operations and production ? (3) Is there a
ready market for such alcohol and its by-
products ? (4) Where can I get books on the
subject? —3l79.
(1) The starch in the potatoes is first con-
verted into sugars and then fermented. The
alcohol produced is then distilled off from the
'mixture. (2) A 1000-gallon-per-day plant would
cost about £12,000, and the necessary buildings
to house it about £4OOO. Such a plant is, rela-
tively speaking, a small one, and working costs
in it would be comparatively high. (3)
Present producers could easily increase their
output from the available raw materials, and
any new concern would meet considerable com-
petition. (4) The economics of power alcohol
are discussed in Bulletin 33 of the C.5.1.R.,
Melbourne (available gratis on application).
Up-to-date treatment for the eradication of
white-ants and borers ? —3097.
Subjects are very well treated in a leaflet
issued gratis by the N.S.W. Department ol
Agriculture, a copy of which can be obtained
on application to the Technological Museum,
Sydney, and (for borers) in a Bulletin, No. 8,
issued by the Technological Museum, Sydney
(Is.).
* * * *
Formula for making iodine soap in a small
way ? —2742.
Requires some technical skill. Formula
(Great Nth. Hospital, Eng.) is: lodine crystals
j ounce, oleic acid ounce, alcohol (90 per
cent.) 3 drachms, strong solution of ammonia
1 drachm. Mix. This makes a soapy paste
soluble in all liquids except fixed oils.
!j: HC * #
(1) Cause and cure of hallucinations ? (2)
Cause and cure■ of loss of memory (other than
old age) ? (3) Difference between hallucinations
and nightmare ? —3238.
(1) Hallucinations may be caused by over-
work, loss of sleep, rises of body temperature
(as in the infectious diseases) and in alcoholic
states. If long-continued, they are often a sign
of insanity. Cure involves treatment of the
underlying cause. (2) Causes are many. Loss
of memory often resulted from shock and
fatigue during the war. Melancholia is often
accompanied by slight degrees of it. A serious
form is a feature of epilepsy and congenital
imbecility. Treatment by psychoanalytical
methods is sometimes useful in cases in which
the primary trouble is not a grave nervous or
mental disease. (3) Nightmare is that form of
dream in which a series of terrifying pictures
or events is presented to a sleeping person,
but, like all dreams, may be the expression of
the functions of a normal mind. Hallucinations
are errors of perception in some sense organ
of sight, smell, hearing or taste, sufficiently
strong to produce in the waking state an im-
pression of something that doesn’t exist.
* * * *
/ perspire very freely in the head after exer-
cise of any kind. This has affected the growth
of hair on my head —causing much hair to fall
out. What treatment will check this tendency
to premature baldness? —3293.
Unlikely that there is any causal relationship
between the sweating and the baldness, and
sweating is too important a bodily function to
attempt its reduction. Baldness is caused by
seborrhcea of scalp, a disease marked by the
appearance of dry or greasy scales and, later,
by loss of hair. Disease is infectious and is
spread by dirty brushes and combs. Hair should
be washed thrice weekly with liquid soap, then
rinsed with cold water. Brush vigorously each
day. Avoid pomades and greasy applications.
The following lotion may be rubbed into roots
of the hair: Salicylic acid 5 parts, castor oil 5
parts, spirits of rosemary 50 parts.
* * * *
For years l have been a constant sufferer from
ulcers in the mouth. Are certain salts, which I
have been taking every morning, in any way to
blame ? Otherwise, what is the cause and how
can the ulcers be cured? —3273.
The salts should not be taken if followed
by stinging of affected parts. Cause may be
found in affected teeth v - tonsils or inflammatory
conditions in nose or throat. Errors in diet
are also frequently to blame and may be avoided
by taking cod-liver oil, fresh vegetables and
fruit, milk, butter, eggs, brown bread, lean
meat, cheese and eggs. Ulcers may ,be touched
with hydrogen peroxide on cotton wool or a
paste of sodium perborate (any chemist). Fol-
lowing are useful mouth-washes: Half-tea-
spoonful each of salt and bicarbonate in a glass
of warm water, or one part of rectified spirit
to four or five parts of water. Trouble, if
resistant to treatment, may need bacteriological
examination of mouth. Excessive use of condi-
ments and tobacco is inadvisable.
* * * *
Cause of a red nose ( non-alcoholic ) and what
can be done to cure it ? —3244.
Probably rosacea, an affection of small glands
opening on to the skin surface. Chronic
in nature, it resists treatment. Regulation of diet
helps. Avoid tea, coffee, spiced and seasoned
dishes and condiments. Locally, use a lotion
consisting of calamine and zinc oxide (ioz. of
each), boric acid (1 drachm), glycerin (2
drachms) and water (60z.).
* * *
(1) Recipe for diabetic jam and marmalade,
using glycerine or saccharine instead of sugar ?
(2) Is it possible to preserve fruit without sugar,
using glycerine or saccharine, and what propor-
tions should be used ? —3284.
(1) Finely shave the skin of one large orange
and that of H lemons, avoiding white pith.
Chop the skin finely; add the juice and pulp
of lemons. Put into a saucepan and cover
with seven ounces of water. Bring to boiling-
point and simmer for two hours, adding water
when necessary to keep to stated amount. Cut
\oz. of leaf gelatine {not glycerine) into fine
strips; add it, with five grains of saccharine, to
the mixture and stir for 10 minutes. Put into
a jar and leave to set. The same principles
are applicable to the making of jam for dia-
betics. The articles will “keep” only for a
short time. They are rather unattractive in
appearance, and have small food value. (2)
Gelatine and saccharine may be used in the
proportions stated for preserving fruit.
Brief Answers.
M.A.T.: No record of a Royal Academician
of that name, but two artists bearing the name
have been represented at Royal Academy ex-
hibitions. Charles Butterworth, who exhibited
twice during 1887-88, specialised in engraving;
George Butterworth, a landscape artist, had a
canvas hung a few years earlier. Both exhibited
frequently at other London exhibitions....
D. : “Newspaper News,” Warwick Building,
Hamilton-street, Sydney E.P.: M. F. Par-
sons, hon. sec., John o’ London’s Literary
Circle, c/o Hunt and Hunt, 9 Martin-place,
Sydney L. 8.: “British Unemployment In-
surance Law,” by J. M. Dunningham, M.L.A.,
N.S.W. Minister for Labor and Industry.
Obtainable N.S.W. Govt. Printer, Sydney....
W.W.F.: Coolgardie (W.A.) means “water-
hole” ; Gundagai (N.S.W.), “going up stream”;
Wollongong (N.S.W.), “five islands”; Oodna-
datta (S.A.), “the blossom on the mulga”;
and Wonthaggi (Vic.), “borne”... .R.W.:
Apply shipping cos G.K.M.: Reply pub-
lished B. 16/ 9 /’36. (1) Must prove negligence
for success of claim. Many technical points to
be considered. (2) Case would be complicated.
Verification of former conditions is difficult
with progressive treatment. (3) Solicitor will
advise... .D.8.A.: F. P. McCabe’s Pat and
E. T. Daw’s Miss Poppy... .H.A.: Yes....
A. 8.: Rose bowl valued at £150... .8.L.:
Minimum weekly wage for proofreaders em-
ployed by Sydney daily newspapers is £6 13s.
day work, £7 3s. night work. Adult readers’
assistants receive £5 2s. day work and £5 12s.
night work... .A.F.H.: Place in a bath of warm
soapy water and scrub with a soft brush.
Marble, a soft stone, will not. endure scraping
with metals or hard brushes. Rinse in warm
water and let dry. Polish with finely powdered
chalk mixed with water and finish with a silk
cloth... .H.T.C.: No book on leather-plaiting
known. There is sometimes a brief chapter on
the subject in craft books, and there are a
few paragraphs in the leather section of
Modern Home Crafts, by D. C. Minter, price
about 245. 6d., from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. Most plaiters pick up new plaits
from friends... .R.H.: No, it originally
appeared in The Bulletin in the issue of De-
cember 12, 1912... .P.J.: Apply Headquarters,
2nd District Base, Victoria Barracks, Padding-
ton, Sydney.. . .T.S.: Consent to marriage
after enlistment in the Aust. permanent mili-
tary forces is not required, but a soldier must
inform his commanding officer of intention to
marry. A soldier is not entitled to be placed
on the married roll, with privilege of sleeping
out of barracks and medical attention for wife
and family, unless he has served for three years
and is of good character... .W.A.L.: Norman-
die, 80,000 tons, 981 ft. 4in. long, 117 ft. 9in. wide,
57ft. 6in. deep; Majestic, 56,599 tons, 915 ft. sin.
long, 100 ft. lin. wide, 58ft. 2in. deep; Beren-
garia, 52,101 tons, 883 ft. 6in. long, 98ft. 3in.
wide, 57ft. lin. deep... .T. 8.: Sir Arthur Stanley
was Governor of Victoria from February 23,
1914, to January 30, 1920; Earl of Stradbroke,
from February 24, 1921, to April 7, 1926....
G.M.: An uncertificated bankrupt is disquali-
fied from acting in the Legislature or as a
Justice of the Peace, but this disqualification
is removed on the receipt of his certificate.
. ...H.S.W.: Application for the issue of track
rations should be made at the local police
station W.K.8.: Sydney headquarters, the
Israelite House of David, corner Lane Cove-
road and Waterloo-road, North Ryde....
L.G.S.: Under-Secretary, Treasury, Brisbane,
advises us that the particulars are not yet
available for publication... .E.H.: Write Arthur
Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney....
S.W.W.: Write Institute of N.S.W. Optomet-
rists, 28 Bond-street, Sydney... .G.E.8.: You
could dispose of it by advertising or by sale
to a bookseller. It is worth £2 2s. to £3 3s.
.... J.J.W.: Japanese Department of Commerce
and Industry in 1934 published the following
statistics of earnings and hours in Japanese
industry: Males, 1.96 yen (2s. lOd.) for an
average working day of 10| hours; females,
0.73 yen (Is. Ofd.) for an average working day
of 9£ hours... .H.T.: Write Arthur Yates and
Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney... .N.C.: Desert
chat or gibber-bird (Aslibyia lovensis ) appears
to be confined to the gibber plains, Lake Eyre
district. It was discovered in 1911... .R.R.8.:
Diamonds were first discovered in Australia by
E. H. Hargraves near Guyong (N.S.W.), June,
1851.. . .F.D.: See Charles White’s History of
Australian Bushranging, Hare’s Last of the
Bushrangers and Boxall’s History of Australian
Bushrangers.... E.J.: Burns, Philp, Ltd.,
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., and O. F. Nelson and
Co.—all at Apia, Samoa... .S.N.: The area
of N.S.W., including Lord Howe Island, but
excluding the Federal Territory, is 309,432
sq. m., or 198,036,480 acres—rather more than
one-tenth of the area of Australia... .T.W.M.:
Bertram Stevens died on February 14, 1922,
Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”) on March 22,
1925, and Dowell O’Reilly on November 5,
1923.. . .J.R.: Try growing rhubarb in a bush-
house or under some light shade such as may
be formed with hessian... .H.T.D.: The total
eclipse of the sun, April 29, 1911, was observed
with fair success at Vavau, an island of the
Tonga group, by an expedition organised by
the A’asian Assoc, for the Advancement of
Science, conducted by Baracchi, and subsidised
by the Commonwealth Government... .G.T.G.:
(1) Details given too scanty. (2) No. (3) Yes.
(4) Literature is highly technical and presup-
poses a working knowledge of psychoanalysis.
Freud, A. A. Brill and Ferenczi have written
authoritatively on the subject. (5) Perfectly
feasible, but the idea has been exploited by
novelists since the days of Du Maurier....
K.H.0.: Write Albert Mitchell, hon. organising
secretary, 1938 round-Australia motor-car
contest, N.R.M.A. House, 3 Spring-street,
Sydney J.T.S.: (1) A. W. Dye, analyst and
metallurgist, T. and G. Buildings, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. (2) Prices vary according to the
nature of the ore; gold and silver cost you
10s. 6d. per specimen... .D.D.: Write Director,
Animal Health Station, Yeerongpilly, Q’land.
. ...G.M.D.: How to Train a Racehorse, by
Muggridge (255.) H.C.: The Romantic
Nineties, by Arthur W. Jose W.C.: At
December 31, 1935, the Permanent Air Force
was fixed at. 178 officers and 1695 airmen, and
Citizen Air Force 42 officers and 211 men
J. 8.: The death adder is now uncommon in
Victoria, and is confined to the Murray River
area R.H.: Jonathan Cape, Ltd., 30 Bed-
ford-square, London, W.C.1... .G.PJ.: The
book you have in mind is Heaven’s My Desti-
nation, by Thornton Wilder... .C.R.: Two
books on Pilsudski are The Hero of Poland, by
Rom Landan, and Marshal of Poland, by Eric
J. Patterson... .(Many others mailed).


/r
/>/
'"III
+ ■ -
1 The world’s sharpest
contrasts are drawn in
AMERICA
OLD and hallowed, Trinity Church looks with Gothic
dignity up the sheer canyon of Wall Street and listens
to the modern heart-throb of New York. Almost beneath
Los Angeles’ massive City Hall, Mexican peons strum guitars
along Olvera Street, as Latin as a calle in Old Spain. The
gabled pagodas of San Francisco’s Chinatown cast Oriental
shadows against the towering sides of new office buildings.
Speeding over Southwestern deserts, travelers pass near by
the cliff-dwellings of an ancient race. In America, from
Coast to Coast, Yesterday truly meets Tomorrow! * * *
America’s railroads exemplify this spirit. Luxury and com-
fort are the keynote. In Pullman cars for restful sleep; club
cars for diversions; diners for superlative refreshment, air-
conditioning controls the temperature, a trained staff in-
cluding valet and ladies’ maid assures immediate satisfac-
tion of every whim and need. Economy of fares and stop-
over privileges en route add to this fascinating travel way!
-K -K -K Every mile of this short, swift trans-America route
to England is featured by amazing contrasts. Starting on a
Matson-Oceanic liner, the “Mariposa” or “Monterey,” there
is an 18-day wonder-cruise to California, pausing to acquire
indelibled South Sea memories at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii. Then from Los Angeles or San Francisco, a
choice of numerous rail-routes to the Atlantic Coast, where
another choice awaits of many liners bound for England!
The contrasts of this distinctive journey
are described in our free illustrated
booklet ... “England Across America .”
American Railways Travel
and Information Bureau
(Incorporated in U.S.A.)
12 Bridge St., Sydney, Phone B-7981-3
u
Y
An amazing
new Swan Pen
ytp
%•
%
ALL progressive writers will want to own
•Ti-this wonderful new invention! See for
yourself how much ink it holds, how it shows
you the ink through a special ‘ observation
window.’ Do this at any good Stationers or
Jewellers to-day!
Prices. —The new VISOFIL (' Big-fill ’) Swan, 32/6.
Ladies' Size 27/6. Leverless (‘ Quick-fill ’) Swan
from 2//-. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE VISOFIL
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE ‘SWAN’ INK
i
A. 3.36
A MIXED GRILL.
“Western”: Touching those bar-room
notices, the crudest and rudest I ever
encountered hung in a W.A. goldfields
pub: “If you want tick, go to the fowl-
house.”
* * * *
“Wanderer”: That Tugun (Q.) house
built of empty bottles (B. 30/9/’36) re-
minds me of a unique beer-parlor in the
gardens surrounding the Grand Hotel at
Corinto, the Pacific Coast port of Nica-
ragua. As “empties” have no value in
Corinto, the pub proprietor hit on the
idea of using them for making a beer-
parlor. Floor, parapet and pillars are
built of bottles embedded, neck-first, in
cement. More than 150,000 bottles were
used ; the only part of the parlor not
composed of bottles is the thatched
roof.
“W.S.”: Savagely gnawing his nether
lip the master cracksman retreated to the
shrubbery. For the first time he had
failed, failed. And yet he had laid his
plans well—poisoned the dog, sent free
tickets to “Hearts Aflame” to the family,
and watched to see that the house was
deserted. He had failed! Steel-shuttered
windows and securely-locked doors, com-
plete with electric alarm bells, had defied
his skill. Fanlights had been well fas-
tened. Even the bathroom window, last
resort of resourceful cracksmen, had been
tightly nailed up. The cunning butter-
ing of the verandah posts had spoilt his
chances above and his best trousers.
There’d be a row with the wife over
them. Now, after four hours of fruit-
less endeavor, the family was returning.
Writhing with baffled rage he saw the
householder stoop and pick up the front
door key from under the mat.
* * * *
Sydney consumers hope for nothing
from the milk inquiry, now in its sixth
or seventh month, though a dairyman
witness said that the milk for which they
pay 7d. a quart could be sold over the
counter for 4d. All the same they have
learned things which are quite inter-
esting. A brother of Premier Stevens and
a brother of Labor-leader Concannon
work for Dairy Farmers, and one of the
bosses of Fresh Food and Ice is that
U.A.P. potentate Playfair, M.L.C., and
one of the chiefs of Dairy Farmers is
Binks, M.L.C. Facts are always inter-
esting.
Cooking by Dictionary.
“L.R.”: It is terrible being an ignorant
man who doesn’t know his own language.
I don’t mean his own private stock of ex-
pletives. His native tongue, perhaps I
should have said, and, not knowing it
by heart, being obliged, like me, to
carry a dictionary round with him in
order to ascertain, when he says any-
thing, whether he really knows what he
is talking about or means. The other
day, when I was holding up the traffic
at' a busy intersection while I found out
what lobscouse, which I thought of hav-
ing for tea, was, I came across “spatch-
cock,” described as being “A fowl split
open and grilled immediately after being
killed. Cook thus, etc.”
Changing my mind about' lobscouse,
which didn’t seem to be in the diction-
ary, I went home immediately, and, with
unerring aim and a paperweight, stunned
a rooster from next door that had been
depriving me of my daily vitamins by
decimating the spinach patch. Executing
it with the celerity and zeal of a Spanish
general and losing no time in splitting
it open with a safety-razor blade, I in-
serted a hot news item from a Sunday
paper which specialises in that' kind, my
idea being that it would save the gas
and eliminate the necessity of buying
chillies.
Then I proceeded to grill the deceased,
who was already nicely stuffed full of
spinach, whereupon the neighborhood
was overwhelmed by a most abominable
odor, a worse one, in fact, than that
which resulted from a decision I once
arrived at to burn my worn-out tobacco
pouch, gumboots, raincoat and goloshes.
The news item may have been a little
too sultry, or, perhaps, though the dic-
tionary didn’t say so, I should have re-
moved the feathers. Half-way to being
coq deplorably brule, the corpse, with-
out a word of warning (for all I knew
to the contrary there may have been a
fag-end of dynamite among the spinach)
went off with a bang.
But I knew where to, though it wasn’t
worth retrieving really. Perhaps it
wasn’t a real rooster at all. Its tough-
ness suggested that it might have been
a he-albatross living among poultry, in-
cognito, as a change from a roving life
and with a view to counteracting the
monotony which, sailors have been
known to remark, is inseparable from
seafaring, though it is not the way I
would have gone about it myself. For
the future, if both should happen to be
on the menu, I shall order lobscouse in
preference to spatchcock.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Gold Cup: Salamander; next,
Amalia.
W. S. Cox Plate: Shakespeare ;
next, Gay Blonde.
Dundonald Handicap: Ogwell ;
next, Sunraysia.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Macquarie Grove Handicap:
Autoland or High ; next, Flamari.
Yarraville Handicap: Windbird ;
next, Thebez.
Homebush Handicap: Curator or
High; next, Fair Diana.
Farm Stakes: Djojka; next.
Stalin.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Harold Cohen, the Victorian M.E.A.,
has won a Caulfield Cup at his initial
attempt with a horse racing in his colors
—blue, red and yellow .stripes, blue sleeves
and cap—and must be accounted a favor-
ite of fortune. Northwind actually is the
first horse he has owned, though he won
at Randwick in the spring of 1935 with
Great Legend, held on lease from the
breeders. C. T. Godby, fulfilling a com-
mission from Cohen to buy a stayer
that could land a decent race, acquired
Northwind (Windbag—Miss Bon) at a
pretty considerable figure.
Godby must be credited with keen
judgment, plus courage of conviction.
Northwind had been entered for the
Caulfield Cup by his original owner, G.
Farrow. The gelding was brought down
to Melbourne from Wangarratta on
several occasions by B. R. Hoysted. He
won three races, but they were in
moderate company.
At intervals since he landed the Caul-
field Cup of 1924 with Purser Cecil
Godby has achieved training successes
of some magnitude. He won a Caul-
field Cup with Gaine Carrington, the
Moonee Valley Cup with Peter Jackson,
the Grand National Hurdle with Pris-
matic and the 1935 Epsom Handicap
with Synagogue. The outlook for Cecil
is rather roseate again. In addition to
Harold Cohen he. has a wealthy patron
in R. R. Thomas, in whose behalf he
paid 1700 guineas for Othello (Heroic —
Desdemona) at the last yearling sales at
Randwick. Othello showed pace in the
Debutant Stakes on Caulfield Guineas
day, but may need time to mature.
Soon after his purchase Northwind
was backed by Godby at long prices for
the Cup, and the owner made a mild
wager or two ; but on the day of the
race Northwind was ignored by the
general public. Odds of 200 to 3 went
begging. An honorary racing official
speculated 10s. each way at 100 to 1,
and whooped with delight when the judge
hoisted No. 19 over his box.
Northwind won because he is a true
stayer who can afford to drop out at
the beginning of a mile-and-a-half jour-
ney and do his best galloping where it
counts most —at the end. Godby told
Harold Badger that he wouldn’t worry
if Northwind was last over the hill at the
back of the course. The jockey jocu-
larly rejoined, “That will be easy.”
Pamelus, though at the head of the
weights, was given free rein to join Talk-
ing in control at the nine-furlongs pole,
and the pair remained in the van until
the home bend was reached, where the
Queenslander shot his bolt. Talking,
however, fought on splendidly. He
entered the straight in advance of Silver
Standard and • Gay Blonde, with Petit
Fils, Prince Sion and Northwind near-
est of the others.
Finishing full of running Northwind
defeated Silver Standard by half a
length, with the A.J.C. Derby winner
only a neck farther away. The time,
2min. 28jsec., was a second slower than
the race (and Australasian) record es-
tablished by Palfresco last year. Petit
Fils, whose winning turn should not be
far off, did best of the unplaced division.
Gay Blonde was next; then Desert
Chief, finishing very well. He played
up at the barrier, was sent to the out-
side, and was not sighted till near the
end.
“Donaster’s going like, hell,” exclaimed
a sporting scribe who was “calling” the
Caulfield Cup for his sporting colleagues.
This explosive remark went on the air as
Bastian sent Donaster after the leaders
six furlongs from home. It wasn’t the
wisest way to ride a horse like Donaster,
who in previous outings had come from
behind to trouble the leaders. The
white-legged chestnut couldn’t maintain
top speed for three-quarters of a mile,
and he beat only six rivals out of 22.
Golden Promise, backed down to 3
to 1. after being quoted at twice those
odds on the previous day. never looked
like, winning. But he ran eighth, and
pulled up so well that Jack Holt is hop-
ing that the Limond four-year-old will
atone in the Melbourne Cup. Much
depends on a complete recovery from
that bruised heel.
Siren, the Sydney filly that Bailey
Payten trains for P. H. Osborne, started
at 2 to 1 for the Burwood Handicap and
fulfilled expectations by setting a merry
pace, but she could not concede 151 b.
to Arbalest, a Victorian Derby candi-
date in the stable of W. Burke. The
winner was at 33 to 1 and paid £l4 13s.
6d. for each ss. invested in the tote win
pool. He is by Curialis and shows a lot
of stamina, concerning which punters
were ignorant before the race.
P. Egan, who rode Arbalest to victory
in the Burwood Handicap, was sus-
pended for a month for crossing to the
rails too sharply and causing interference
to Match King and Arabian Knight. No
doubt there will be more suspensions ere
the spring racing ends in Melbourne. An
unlucky horse in the Burwood Handicap
was Silver Reign, who ran out wide at
the turn. This colt is very fit and will
make amends.
A. G. Hunter, the Seymour stud-
master, had a field day in the juvenile
events. He bred Ena (Liberal —Kenna)
and Barametric (Curialis —Mimic), win-
ners of their respective races, besides
being both the breeder and owner of
Sir Grey (Cimbrian —Carissa), who ran
third to Barametric. The colors of
Hunter are carried by Ena, who has
given Liberal an excellent advertisement
in his first season at the stud.
In his own class the Adelaide sprinter
Aurie’s Star is well-nigh invincible, but
the opposition was too strong in the
Windsor Handicap. Backed to 2 to 1, he
duly led, but punctured when the critical
stage was reached. Ogwell, from Wil-
liamstown, smothered the leaders and
scored by two lengths from Gay Pop.
He will take beating in the Cantala
Stakes.
One of the most remarkable exhibitions
of speed imaginable was given by Press
Gang in the Windsor Handicap. Tailed
off at the half-mile he appeared to be
hopelessly out of the race. Spectators
were staggered when the old fellow came
down the straight with whirlwind speed
and gained third prize. Other members
of his team may fail Jack Holt, but Press
Gang is a model of consistency.
* * * *
Talking has been sold to the Coopers,
who own Capris—they breed blood-
stock in the. Hunter River Valley. If
the price was £19,000, as stated, it is a
very plucky purchase. Heroic fetched
16,000 guineas; Carbine, 13,000 guineas
* * *
Salamander ran two pretty good races
at the A.J.C. spring meeting, though she
didn’t seem thoroughly wound up. She
was fourth in the Squatters’ Handicap
with Bst. 51b. (Gay Blonde was first with
9st. lib., and two days later was first
in the Craven Plate, w.f.a., with Bst.
131 b.), and sixth in the Final Handicap
with Bst. lib. (On Parade was first with
7st. 121 b., and a week later was second
in the City Tatt.’s Handicap with Bst.
61b.). Each was a mile-and-a-quarter
race; times, 2min. 44sec. and 2min.
4sec. The Final Handicap finish was
close, and Salamander was almost in
line with the actual leader, Cabalist, a
furlong from home.
Salamander’s autumn form was good.
She won City Tatt.’s Cup with 7st., beat-
ing Egmont, who had 7st. 41b. (the dis-
tance was 11 furlongs and the time
2min. 20|sec.); and, with the same
weight, she dead-heated for first with
Egmont (7st. 51b.) in the Autumn Handi-
cap at Rosehill (12 furlongs; 2min.
32sec.). At Randwick, with 7st., she
was ninth in the Sydney Cup (Contact
was first with Bst. 41b. and Egmont'
second with 7st. 41b., the time being
3min. 24fsec.), and then she won the
Dangar Handicap with 7sf. 51b., getting
it on protest against Oro, who had Bst.
121 b. (12 furlongs; 2min. 31£sec.).
Those were the filly’s only races that
autumn. In the Sydney Cup she was
one of the leaders into the straight.
On that form Salamander is well
handicapped in the Moonee Valley Gold
Cup with 7st. 111 b. The distance,
furlongs, won’t be troublesome ; whether
the strange conditions (she. has never
travelled before) will suit her remains
to be seen. If Salamander is to be
beaten Amalia may do the trick. That
good mare has Bst. 71b. She, too, seems
better handicapped than Sylvandale (9st.
61b.), Golden Promise (9st. 51b.), Journal
(9st.), Dick Devon (Bst. 101 b.), Bustard
(Bst. 81b.) or High Cross (Bst. 61b.),
though Sporting Blood (9st.), Art (Bst.),
Dark Chief (7st. 81b.) and Tapestry (7st.
71b.) are not' at all badly treated.
* * * *
In answer to many distant inquirers,
The Bulletin’s Melbourne Cup fancy
at the moment is Young Crusader.
sj: He H*
There was distinct annoyance at Rand-
wick when Cereza delayed the start for
the Flying Handicap by playing up like
an unbroken brumby. She had been
backed from 9 to 4 to 6 to 4, and when
the bookmakers saw her behavior they
offered 7 to 4. And then the fractious
chestnut hopped out in front. She
was quickly headed by II Duce, but the
latter had had enough at the Leger,
where the favorite cleared away from
him. Thebez was a poor third; he and
Windbird had doubtless been disorgan-
ised. The winner is to be seen no more
on metropolitan courses till she mends
her manners.
Menangle sportsmen N. S. and V. G.
Curry have found Lancaster King a
real money-spinner. The Flying King
gelding, now rising nine years, has won
three races since being taken over by
G. Douch, a former southern districts
trainer. He was backed from twenties
to twelves in the City Tatt.’s Handicap.
On Parade and Lancaster King singled
out at the Leger, and the old fellow,
served by a pull in the weights, got the
better of the tussle by a neck; Sat-
moth was a length back third and
Allunga fourth. He should be im-
proved by the run, but he did not finish
well. High Cross, second-last early,
was fifth, and then came Fireman, who
was first into the straight.
This Page chose High or Fireman for
City Tatt.’s Handicap, with Lancaster
King next. For the Club Welter it gave
High or Autoland. High, reserved for
that race, was hurdled off, but was
nevertheless one of the first to begin.
Holding a prominent position through-
out, he finished too stoutly for Cid and
Autoland, who got a lucky run on the
rails at the top of the straight, but was
not quite good enough, though he looks
an early winner in suburban company.
Assai acted as pacemaker; he was
fourth at the judge’s box, with Djojka
fifth.
Autoland was favorite at 6 to 4, High
being at fives. The tote paid better —
£3 Bs. for 10s.
F. Christey got Barramul for 360
guineas during the week. Starting at 12
to 1, this three-year-old son of Caledon-
Smart Bird outclassed his opponents in
the Novice Handicap, so Christey showed
a good profit on the transaction, and
still has his horse. Trekster and Sculptor,
both from Rosehill, ran a dead-heat for
second. The favorite, The Blizzard, be-
ginning slowly, was beaten at the turn.
Sir Caledon was almost down at bar-
rier-rise. Barramul ran the mile in
lmin. 37sec. The track was fast; Lan-
caster King disposed of 10 furlongs in
2min. 3sec.
Had Micawber drawn a favorable
position in the Two-year-old Stakes this
smart son of Tippler-Three Mints would
have been favorite. As it was his price
eased to fives. Jumping away well he
chased Brazandt to the Leger and then
cantered past him ; Correct, who came
home strongly, was third. Nightingale.
the favorite, moved oft' sluggishly and ran
into heaps of trouble at the three fur-
longs.
Queensland pastoralist N. G. Elliott
secured his first win with Distinguished
(6 to 1) in the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap, but if Stalin had not dwelt at
the barrier there might have been a dif-
ferent tale to tell. Distinguished is a
stable-mate of Golden Chance. Rummage
followed Stalin; Spirits, who is getting
down in the weights, was fourth. Dis-
tinguished ran “seven” in lmin. 23^-sec. —
quarter of a second outside Turbine’s
Australasian record. He might be better
than Stalin at a mile.
A note from Queensland:
Dear Sir, —Conveying heartfelt thanks from
the Queensland sports who profited by your
Epsom-Metrop double. May your shadow never
grow less.
Yours for the sports,
JIM NEWMAN, Charleville.
(i Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
The English cricketers got useful bowl-
ing and batting practice opposed to the
Westralians at Perth. Allen (3 for 32),
Fames (3 for 35) and Sims (2 for 22) dis-
missed the Westerners for 142. Then
Barnett (54), Wyatt (106), Hammond
(141) and Hardstaff (87 n. 0.) kept the
local men in the field for about a day
and a half: 4 for 469 declared.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The professional element
in the English Eleven is pretty well pro-
vided for financially. At sea each man
draws 30 bob a week and in Australia
two quid; then £4OO straight, with a
bonus after returning to England. In
addition all travelling and housing ex-
penses are paid. The amateurs get an
allowance of £l5O, but will not share in
any bonus. Altogether it would seem
that in cricket, at any rate, the popular
convention that the sporting amateur gets
more out of the game than the profes-
sional is pure fiction.
* . * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Sydney unobtru-
sively welcomed an old friend when
Abram Waddington, here with . Johnny
Douglas’s 1920-21 team, blew in to have
a look at the Tests and the Cup. As be-
fits a Yorkshireman, Waddington has ac-
quired a comfortable amount of brass
since he was here, and for recreation he
races several horses with a fair amount
of success. He says that it is a common
thing now for owners and others to fly
to courses, accommodation for the
’planes being found in the centre. Wad-
dington, a medium-fast left-hand bowler,
was a great success for Yorkshire. He
could not find form in Australia, taking
only seven wickets at 45 on the tour
and one for 119 in Tests.
“Tenth Slip”: Waddington told a press-
man he would include Bradman, O’Reilly,
McCabe, Oldfield and Grimmett in a
world side. The others would be Ham-
mond, Leyland, Constantine, Headley,
Larwood, Voce and Hendren. A good
pick, though Hendren might be objected
to as too old. Many will agree with
Waddington’s opinion that Gregory’s slip
fielding was largely responsible for
Mailey’s success as a bowler. He might
have added that the strong contrast be-
tween the Gregory-McDonald expresses
and the slow bowler’s donkey-drops also
helped.
$ .1: * *
“Ibn el Issar”: It will be difficult for
an elephant to go musth in India this
year without squashing a professional
cricketer. In addition to Scaife and
Bromley, of Australia, and several others
already resident in the country, Larwood
and Nicholls have been offered gilt-
edged coaching jobs for the season. Lar-
wood is to coach at Bombay, which is
just as well. Not so long ago the em-
ployment of bodyline tactics in some of
the native States might have led to an
early-morning interview with the Maha-
rajah’s special elephant or to being tied
up in some demned, damp, moist, un-
pleasant jungle as tiger bait for his noble
host.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: London “Daily Mail” is
out with a suggestion for cricket reform
in strong contrast to the usual footlings
of the daily press on the subject. It is
ihat the color of the ball be changed
from red to white to give spectators a
better chance of seeing the beastly thing.
The present ball rapidly changes from
red to black on juicy-grassed English
wickets, aad on our flinty pitches soon
becomes a burnt brown almost match-
ing the pitch. The white ball would
probably do the same thing, but this
could be guarded against by instructing
the bowler to deliver only full pitches, as
in baseball, or providing a new ball
every over.
('Continued on next page.)


SALE OF HOTEL LICENSES.
THE Licensing Commission, Queensland, in-
vites Tenders for the purchase of Hotel Licenses
removed to the following localities: —
CUMBERLAND ISLANDS.
Tenders Close 9th November, 1936.
ISLANDS IN THE SHIRE OF CARDWELL
C Family Group).
Tenders Close 30th November, 1936.
These Groups will be the centre of the tourist
traffic attracted by the natural show place of
Australia —the Great Barrier Reef. In these
Groups are many beautiful tropical Islands at
present vacant, and all are situated in close
proximity to the Main Barrier Reef.
The Cumberland Group is off the Queensland
coast between Proserpine and Mackay, and
includes those partially-developed Islands of
Lindeman, Hayman (the scene of Zane Grey’s
him), the Molle Islands and numerous vacant
Islands with all the potential features required
for tourist development.
The Family Group is further north, off the
coast from Cardwell. This locality is bounded
on the north by Clump Point and on the south
by Dungeness, and includes those well-known
Islands Dunk and Richards.
The removal of hotel licenses to the Islands
will fill a long-felt want and ensure suitable
accommodation to all tourists.
A prospective tenderer may select a site not
exceeding 20 acres on any vacant Island in
these Groups, and should such site be suitable
the successful tenderer will be granted a special
lease under the Queensland Land Acts on equit-
able terms and conditions.
Tender forms may be obtained from the
undermentioned or at the Queensland Tourist
Bureaux, Sydney and Melbourne.
F. P. BYRNE, Secretary.
Licensing Commission,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
03 —Two Razors in Flat Case, Best Quality
Hollow Ground with Xylonite Handles,
31 /iS
Black Handle-, 21/6.
196 —All-round Sports Knife, good quality
and finish. 4in. Metal Haft, 14/6 each.
OF QUALITY
HOUSEWIFE'S SCISSORS OUTEIT
-
WuIND B
Lady’s Scissors Case, hand-made
of finest fancy leather, lined with
velvet. Size when folded, 8 x 3|
inches. Contains 4 Pair Nickel-
plated Scissors. Price ... 37/6
Similar case, containing 3 pair.
Price, 25/-.
Post Free for Cash with Order.
W. JNO. BAKER, Ltd.,
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
He Needs the besf
m
Always
uses
CIJLARS
Sold by Leading Jewellers and Opticians.
Particulars and literature from the Australian Representatives
E. C. NEYNE PTY. LTD. 100 Flinders Street
Victoria Racing Club,
Remington.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY 31st OCTOBER
CUP DAY 3rd NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY sth NOVEMBER
C. B. FISHER PLATE, 7th NOVEMBER
£lO,OOO ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP
E nd GOLD CUP OF £2OO.
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Under the Whip
The V.R.C. handicapper has by no
means been hard on Young Crusader in
raising him 51b. to 7st. 91b. in the Mel-
bourne Cup. The chestnut was awarded
6st. 91b. in the Metrop.; he carried 6st.
111 b. and won with fully 161 b. in hand.
Seldom has a Metrop. winner had only
7st. 91b. in the Cup. On the other hand,
only one horse has ever won the double,
Metrop. and Cup: Tim Whiffler in 1867,
WALLACE MITCHELL.
He “lays ’em” successfully and is a
generous giver to good causes.
though several horses have been second
in one race and first in the other, or vice
versa. Nightmarch might have landed
the double in 1929 had he been kept for
it; as it was he was first in the Epsom,
second in the Metrop. (with 9st. 121 b.)
and first in the Cup.
South Australians have had to admit,
regretfully, that Veilmond’s brother
Limond Lad is not much good. He
failed dismally in the S.A. Derby, for
which he was a 6-to-4 favorite, being
beaten out of a place along with the Vic-
torian representative, Allendale, who also
has dispelled high hopes formed of him
in the season. Brave Lad, the winner
(at tens), is locally bred, being by Amalfi
—Nurse Cavell. Amalfi has sired a
number of good horses, and distance
does not seem to trouble them. The best
of the Amalfis is Amalia, winner of the
Port Adelaide and Australian Cups.
Amalia, by the way, is doing capital work
in Melbourne, and ran creditably in the
V.R.C. Stand Handicap. She has a good
horse’s weight in the Melbourne Cup,
Bst. 61b.; but it is only 31b. more that
she carried in the Australian Cup, and
the market votes her a distinct chance.
$
Sold for 30 guineas a year ago under
the impression that he had become, use-
less for racing, St. Valorey proved in the
Gowrie Handicap at Moonee Valley on
Wednesday that this was all wrong. In-
cidentally, it delighted the bookmakers,
for the old fellow was the outsider of
the field of 15, being 33 to 1 in the ring
—tote backers got £8 15s. 6d. and
£2 10s. 6d. for ss. It was a 10-furlongs
race, run in 2min. 6sec., and two fairly
well backed horses, Aitchengee and
Rightspear, contested the finish with St.
Valorey, who is one, of the few sons of
Valais still in the business. His dam was
La Neive, whom Sydney racegoers re-
member as a good mare.
St. Valorey won the Brisbane Cup in
1932 and again in 1934; on that occa-
sion Soft Step was second to him. The
time, 3min. 22|sec., was a Queensland
record for two miles until Soft Step cut
it —and the Australian record with it —
to 3min. 2 in last year’s Queens-
land Cup.
Aurie’s Star has been a striking suc-
cess in Melbourne. In the Springbank
Handicap at the Valley, going out at
even money, the S.A. gelding made
hacks of a pretty good lot—L’Elite,
winner of the Cantala Stakes in 1934, was
second and Marion Melton third —and
equalled the course record for six fur-
longs, lmin. 12sec. It was his fifth
win in six starts on Melbourne courses.
He is a four-year-old by Stardrift —
Aurie. Anton, and if the Oakleigh Plate
were to be run in a week or two little
else would be talked of. But the Flern-
ington straight might bother the bril-
liant fellow.
* * * *
Cherry King, who figured in
McCarten’s libel action against a Syd-
ney sporting paper, rarely takes it into
his head to do his best. He did at
Ascot (Sydney), on Wednesday, and
came in on his own, thereby spoiling a
substantia] commission for Mackintosh,
a well-tried nag from the provinces.
Cherry King made it a procession, with
Mackintosh leading the others. The race
was the Mascot Welter Mile.
A division of the Flying Handicap
went to Belgravia, who raced consis-
tently but unluckily at Randwick. He is
by Glenariff —Peppermint. Glenariff is
the big chestnut son of Valais —Bunee
for whom a brother of Samuel
McCaughey, of Yanco and McCaughey
trust celebrity, gave 3800 guineas as a
yearling. « Glenariff’s turf career was
brief. He won a
small race as a
two-year-old, and
was then retired
from racecourses.
So far he has done
nothing much at
the stud, but there
may be, time
enough yet for
him to make a
name for himself.
* *
Getting a rider
for Donasler was
no easy job. First
Cox was engaged,
but Cox fell foul
of the stipendiary
stewards and was
suspended for a
month. Then ar-
rangements were
made with
O’Brien. He fell
with Gaylorn in
the Novice Stakes
at Seymour on the
Tuesday before
the Cup race;
damage, a broken
collarbone. Finally,
C.B. KELLOW.
Heroic and Hall Mark raced in his colors.
F. W. Hoysted handed the contract to
Bastian, who nowadays does most of his
riding in Adelaide.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Australia, which has
been moaning about the need for a new
bowler, seems to have nourished one un-
disclosed until too late. 1 his is Ward,
who, languishing unheeded by a Sydney
club, went to S.A., where he climbed at
once into Sheffield cricket and took 50
first-class wickets his first season. In
Sydney with Bradman’s team he mas-
tered the African tourists in both innings,
taking 7 for 127 and 5 for 100. Un-
happily the discerning Alan Fairfax, him-
self compelled to leave Australia for
better opportunities, has signed Ward up
to play for two years with a private
team run by an English millionaire.
However, he will not leave until after
four Tests have been played with Eng-
land, so he should get a chance to prove
himself in the best company.
4r 4c * $
The Bardsley-Gregory benefit match
in Sydney fizzled out in a six-wicket win
for Bradman’s Rest-of-Australia side.
Bradman was dismissed for 13 in his
second try, Robinson playing a nice shot
for 57.
“Bundy”: Macartney, commenting in
the “S. M. Herald” of September 2 on
the team chosen to play Richardson’s XI.
said: “Easton is a better wicketkeeper,
and, I think, a better batsman, than
Tallon.” In a review of the first day’s
play, he wrote: “I have not seen
Tallon play before, but on his activities
behind the wickets yesterday he would
be an acquisition to any side.” How
reconcile the two statements? How
justify the ranking of one player as
superior to another when the commen-
tator had not seen the latter in action?
Perhaps “Tallon” in the September
quotation was a slip of the pen.
Amended to read “Barnett” for “Tallon,”
the sentence would logically follow
its immediate predecessor, in which
Macartney expressed the opinion that
Easton could have been chosen with ad-
vantage ahead of the Vic. ’keeper as
understudy to Oldfield on the S’African
tour.
“Bowen Park”:
The Q.C.A. con-
tinues to turn
Catherine wheels
until it must be
giddy. First it re-
fused to let Gil-
bert, brought from
the country to
practise in Bris-
bane, take part in
club matches. Then
it decided that he
should play in club
matches with the
Colts team. It
then announced
that the abo.
would not be
allowed to play
for the Country
team in Country
Week, and would
have to turn out
with the Colts. The
latest shuffle is that
Gilbert will be
allowed to play
with the Country
in the matches
against Colts and
Met r o p olis on
October 23 and 24.
“Five Ways”: Though it will be with-
out McCabe and Fingleton, both play-
ing against the Englishmen in Westralia,
the N.S.W. team for the first Sheffield
game with Queensland in Brisbane, start-
ing on October 30, reads well. Oldfield,
O’Reilly, Chipperfield and Robinson are
a sound nucleus, and most of the others
have played for the State in Sheffield
cricket. Newcomers are the Waverley
all-rounder Jackson, who has shaped
well with the inter-State colts, and
Cheetham, of Balmain, a fine opening
E.L. BAILLIEU,
One of the owners of The Chanter.
bat and a bowler of considerable pace.
McGilvray will captain the side, and will
probably lead it in most of the other
games when McCabe is engaged in the
Tests.
* * * *
“Yokel”: November 2 will usher in
an orgy of country cricket in Sydney. It
will last for a week, entailing a pro-
gramme of 16 matches a day. since 32
teams have entered. After the uproar is
over a combined country team will be
selected to meet N.S.W. Colts on Novem-
ber 9 and 10 at S.C.G. No. 2.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Coincident with the land-
ing of the English Eleven in Westralia
came the news that B. J. T. Bosanquei,
who first put the googly on the cricket
map, had died in England at 59. “Bos”
began as a fast bowler with Cambridge
and Middlesex, and got the idea of the
reverse googly spin when spinning bil-
liard balls on a table. He gradually de-
veloped this type of bowling, and the
sensation he caused when he tried it on
the dog in Australia with the 1903-04
team skippered by Warner is not for-
gotten yet. Among the opposing batsmen
were Trumper, Noble, Darling, Hill and
Syd Gregory, and he had them all
gravelled, being largely responsible for
England’s victory in the Test series. He
took 53 wickets at 22.84 on that tour,
and had a batting average of 33.84. In
seven Tests in Australia and at home he
took 25 wickets at 24.16.
“Fitzcray”: The fuss over Jean Batten
has somewhat obscured the important
news that the operation on Fleetwood-
Smith’s bowling finger has been a com-
plete success, and that the nation may
breathe again. Unhappily, he will not
be available for the big matches until
January, when it is to be hoped Mr.


Mr. Primary Producer . . .
HERE ARE 2 IMPORTANT REASONS
WHY FORDSON IS YOUR BEST BUY
14 H.P. at
DRAWBAR
26 H P. on
BELT
(Tests by
Mr. E. J C. RENNIE
Melbourne University)
o
©
Fordson is the Lowest'Priced Tractor per
Horsepower and the Most Efficient
Fordson is made by England the Biggest
Buyer of Your Produce
It pays to use the English Fordson
Tractor. Its power in the field is equiva-
lent to not less than an 8-horse team.
And it is built in England—the country
which in 1934-35 took Australian
exports valued at £54,000,000. Use
the English Fordson and save money
a special plan provides easy terms.
FORDSON FEATURES
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT . . . HEAVY-
DUTY TRANSMISSION . . . GOVERNOR CONTROL
...SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM . . . CRANK-
CASE VENTILATION . . . “HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER
. . . CLUTCH PULLEY . . . REAR END POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
%/l Fordsoiv
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMO
Tractor
ISTRATE
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
ltd., Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS :
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street. Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
POWER PLANT LTD., 93-100
Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hav Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR CO MPA N Y OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F112.27T
Hammond will treat him with more re-
spect than he did last time he was in
Australia.
* * * *
“Betise”: Sydney “Sun” is not re-
markable for tact. The latest evidence of
this is a cartoon of the British lion in
the inevitable cricket garb landing from
a steamer and carrying a container
labelled “High Hopes.” Said container
is one of the most lifelike, representations
of a garbage-tin writer has been privi-
leged to behold.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Jim Ferrier’s fine
score of 62 for 18 holes at Manly in the
N.S.W. close championship has evoked the
experts' assertion that the feat is a
“world’s record.” It seems useless to
try to drum into the ivory under-
standings of some folk that there can
be no such thing as a world's record for
a round of golf, though there may be
a local one for a course. No two golf
courses in the world are alike, and the
people who play on them differ as
widely, so comparisons are quite im-
possible.
With all respect to the excellent
players who achieve them it has again
to be pointed out that many of these
wonderful scores on Australian courses
are due, not only to consistency in the
player, but to the ridiculous ease of
most of our courses compared with
those abroad. This Sarazen has been
emphasising, and W. H. Ifould agrees
with the American that not until Aus-
tralia makes courses more difficult as
players improve will our men have a
chance of reaching the standard of
those in other countries.
**■ ' * *
“Kingston Heath”: Len Nettlefold
again bagged the Tassie open champion-
ship with a card of 132, made up of two
66’s. Runner-up was a recent arrival
from England, C. G. Thynne, who also
had one round of 66, but spilt the beans
with a 1 75 after lunch. Nettlefold is play-
ing better than ever this season. As he
is a selector of the Australian team for
England in 1938, he may have to include
himself if he isn’t careful.
* * * *
The cheerful Sarazen and his amiable
partner departed for Amurrica after a
hard-working tour of most of the Aus-
tralian States. He and Miss Hicks lost
no opportunity of pursuing the chicken
feed in exhibition matches, while his big
wins in the S. Aus. and Australian opens
should have helped to swell the sock.
Both Gene and the lady voiced the same
swan-song ere departure, imploring Aus-
tralia for heaven’s sake to get busy and
make some real golf courses if it desires
to reach international standards.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: England has got her
Henry Cotton back. Annoyed at the
barracking of a Lancashire gallery which
objected to his airs and graces, Cotton
took a job as professional with the
Waterloo club in Belgium. He has now
joined the Ashbridge club in the South
of England, and so once more becomes
a boy of the bulldog breed.
Racquet and Bawl
“Crayfish”: Definite news about Fred
Perry is that he. will not come to Aus-
tralia. All else is indefinite. The young
man is said to be considering taking a
seat on the New York Stock Exchange—
which even to-day would cost him
£25,000 —accepting a £25,000 bonus for
joining the Tilden professional troupe
and becoming a movie star. It sounds an
ambitious programme, based as it is solely
on ability to play tennis better than
other people. Without his tennis Perry
might still be a clerk in some London
office, dwelling in a remote suburb and
looking forward to an income of £5OO
a year at the best. He would do well to
get in quick with that Tilden contract.
A motor accident, an injured right arm,
and the once-omnipotenl champion
would be back where, he started.'
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: It looks as if
Norman Brookes’s darling the Pacific
Davis Cup zone is going to be smothered
in its little cradle. The idea is that' Aus-
tralia, M.L., .South Africa, India and
Japan, with some odd details from else-
where east of Suez, should be included
in the new zone, the winner to chal-
lenge either in America or Europe. No-
where has the bantling been received
with rapture, and when it came before
the council of the Davis Cup countries
it was referred to a committee—invari-
ably the first step towards the end.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The Victorian tennis
heads have issued their annual defi. to
South Australia and N.S.W. to compete
in a triangular inter-State tourney in
Melbourne on December 9 and 10. Prior
to that Sydney will stage another inter-
state go on November 25 and 26.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The last meet-
ing of N.S.W.L.T.A. heads devoted most
of the evening to dwelling on the iniqui-
ties of the Australian L.T.A., which since
headquarters were shifted to Melbourne
has become an entirely Victorian organi-
sation, according to the critics. It would
not matter much if the disgruntled sec-
tion confined itself to squealing, but it
shows a pronounced disposition to crab
any proposal issuing from Melbourne ;
and that is not good for the game.
Miscellaneous
“Quarter Butt”: Although his case has
been thoroughly gone into by the Aus-
tralian Billiards Council, which is satis-
fied he is an amateur, Marshall, winner
of the Australian championship and
therefore automatic selection as Aus-
tralia’s representative in the Empire
tourney at Johannesburg, is still the
target for disgruntled State organisations
whose nominees he defeated in the big
tourney. Victoria has now joined in pro-
test against Marshall’s selection, basing
the kick on the same grounds as Queens-
land and N.S.W. —that a relative is
known to own a billiard saloon. It is the
dead limit of paltriness.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Australian A.A. Union
has bagged one American star for the
coming season, and a mate for him is
being sought. The catch is Glen Morris,
winner of the decathlon at Berlin and a
whole show in himself, since he is a
star in field games as well as on the
track (400 to 1500 metres) and over the
sticks. He. and his companion, who will
probably be a sprinter, will make their
Australian first appearance at Sydney on
January 9.
* # * *
“Fitzcray”: S.A. football clubs, which
have suffered a good deal from Vic-
torian depredations, have retaliated. A
horde of Wheatfielder scouts is comb-
ing Melbourne for likely players to sign
up for Adelaide clubs. Of course, Mel-
bourne club officials are furious at this
breach of etiquette, but the invaders are
not likely to prove successful. Mel-
bourne clubs have already signed up
most of the talent in the city and
BOB JANSEN.
He thought Golden Promise a good thing.
suburbs and pretty well all in the coun-
try districts worth having.
Sfc Jj: i\i &
“Cash Amateur”: At a Brisbane
Rugby League gathering it was
dolorously asserted that the game in the
metropolis has suffered because leading
players have been compelled to waltz
Matilda round the backblocks in search
of work, all efforts to find them
shovels to lean on in the city having
proved fruitless. If this be so, times
must be hard in Brisbane. In days gone
by anyone with a capacity for playing
football better than the average could
always count on a wage of some sort,
or at least on free board and beer from
some Bung desirous of posing as a
“sport.” This was the rule both in pro-
fessional and amateur football, and in-
deed was rife before the professional
player was heard of in Brisbane.
sj; i]'. :,J 'i'
“Hawthorn”: Re-elected treasurer of
the Victorian R.A., J. P. Rorke enters
on his seventeenth year of office. This
long stretch beats by a year that of E.
Kenny, who was secretary of the asso-
ciation for 16 years until he switched to
the same job- on the Australian Rowing
Council. One unusual point about the
perennial treasurer is that before he came
to Melbourne from Queensland, where
he was for years a cricket official, he
didn't know an oar from a long-handled
shovel.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: Henley-on-Yarra will
see an extra strong invasion of N.S.W.
oarsmen on November 28. In addition
to the North Shore club, which recently
won the Boone Cup for senior eights,
Police and Mosman are to have a shy
at the Grand Challenge Eights. Mos-
man is also sending over its senior four
to defend the Stewards’ Challenge Cup,
which it has in its keeping.
* * * *
“Huon”: Tassie has thought out a new
way of selecting its eight for the King’s
Cup. After the State champion eights
two crews from North and South Tas-
mania will be picked. These will race
at all regattas and at the end of the
season take part in the annual North v.
South race, the winner to represent the
State in the King’s Cup.


a
P-, WHERE
will You stay in
MELBOURNE?
lAt the Victoria, of
course! Australia’s
largest, most modern
hotel. In hekrt of city.
Every luxury. Un-
rivalled dining rooms
and cafeterias. Popular
“Room Only” tariffs:
Singles, 4/- to 7/6
per day; Doubles, 8/-
to 16/-. Write for
free illustrated booklet
to Department 818.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 .Little Collins |p^
St„ Melbourne, C.J.
SiPillfSi:
i
I!
LARGEST
Htttl rZtrrirm
■LICENSED fIOTEL IN AUSTRALIA
Hard carbon is WASTED FUEL /.
*7 or less carbon , //wA«7 Champions
MAHp/
VJt
HARD
CARBON
t>\V
The noise, the sluggishness, the lack of
speed that plague many engines are less
likely to occur if new Champions are in-
stalled once every year. Carbon which
is unbumed fuel often causes these
troubles, and Champions reduce carbon
formation to its minimum.
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
ķ
k
' ; ' V;
s2&' A truly One hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
$£ Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
&A with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Oil from Australian Coal
Mr. Stevens, the N. S. Wales Pre-
mier, back from a seven months’ trip
abroad, has been tickling the ears of
West Maitland electors with the sug-
gestion that a hydrogenation plant
capable of producing petrol from the
State’s coal resources may be erected —
“a company already exists,” and
“arrangements have been made to send
Australian operatives to Billingham for
necessary training.”
“Remissions of Federal excise,” “defi-
nite financial assistance” and “a cost
considerably greater than imported
petrol” were among the elaborations
and qualifications employed by Mr.
Stevens. This traveller, having paid a
short visit to Billingham, is probably
aware that it has no real connection
with Billingsgate. It is on the Tees,
about nine miles from the Durham coal-
fields, and Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries’ works there represent what has
grown from the British Government's
war-time attempt to manufacture syn-
thetic ammonia for explosives. Brunner
Mond bought the site in 1921. Manu-
facture of synthetic nitrogen products
began in 1923 ; at present the 800-acre
factory (the second-largest chemical
works in the world) turns out ammonia,
fertilisers, acids, methyl alcohol, a kind
of “dry-ice” and petrol—all these by the
hydrogenation process. The factory, by
other methods, makes cement, plaster
sheets, caustic soda, chlorine products, etc.
It is a huge plant, and the economical
production of one product in some cases
depends on the saleability of by-pro-
ducts or their adaptability as fuels or
raw materials. The big petrol plant is ex-
tremely complex ; Sir Harry McGowan,
chairman of 1.C.1., shortly to visit Aus-
tralia on 1.C.1. business, has briefly
described the process as follows:
The coal, cleaned as free as possible from
ash, is ground with some of the oil made in
the process to make a paste. This paste is
forced through heat-exchangers and heaters
into large steel cylinders, where it is treated
with hydrogen at 250 atmospheres, at high
temperature. Practically all the non-mineral
part of the coal is converted into a mix-
ture of heavy oil, middle oil, petrol arul
gas. The heavy oil is used for making the
coal paste; and the middle oil is vaporised
with more hydrogen at high temperature,
producing petrol, which is refined in the
ordinary way.
The production of hydrogen in the first
place is a job in itself.
The sooner some definite move is
made to bring about the Australian pro-
duction of petrol, whether from coal
or Newnes shales, the better for this
country’s security. From a defence
viewpoint it is as essential as aero-
planes or battleships. It does not
follow, however, that hydrogenation is
the most economic process for extract-
ing oil. Hydrogen is essential to the
manufacture of ammonia, for which the
Billingham works were first conceived,
and petrol-production by the hydro-
genation process in this case looks a
logical enough link-up.
But Australians anxious to see the
vital development of oil resources in
this country shouldn’t bank too much
on the recent utterances of the N. S.
Wales Premier. The opinion of David
Rivett, of the C.S.T.R., now overseas
investigating, will be keenly awaited. A
hydrogenation plant capable of turning
out petrol sufficient to meet our full re-
quirements would cost over £8,000,000
on a Federal Minister’s estimate. Little
extra employment would result. It is not
improbable that a low-temperature car-
bonisation plant worked in conjunction
with a gas or electricity undertaking
would give better results for a great
deal less outlay. Already in Britain and
Germany a considerable quantity of
petrol is being made from coal in con-
junction with the output of smokeless
fuel.
Victorian banking averages for the
September quarter disclose a situation
that, if it reflects the general trend
throughout the Commonwealth, prom-
ises little or no loosening-up in the ex-
tension of credit facilities by banks. The
position, when compared with that of
12 months ago, shows remarkably little
change. Deposits and advances are prac-
tically unaltered, with an excess of ad-
vances, etc., amounting to £7,071,000.
Deposit rates were lifted six months ago
partly to defeat the public issue of
Treasury bills and partly to attract new
fixed deposits. The first object has been
“I'll start Wilium John aboveground, missus, an tin can Work his Way
up till he gets underground .”
achieved; the second has not', though
the drain on Victorian deposits has
ceased.
* if« Jf:
At over £45 sterling in London, elec-
trolytic copper last week went to a new
high level for recent years. It has
already been a much more profitable
term (to Sept. 30) for Mt. Lyell, the
Commonwealth’s chief producer, and
the co.’s shares rose briskly by 3s. (to
335.) in a couple of days. Develop-
ments and prospects have been
chronicled here over the past 12 months.
The scrip has risen 14s. in that time.
On an output of 13,500 tons electro-
lytic a year, every £1 sterling average
rise in price of the red metal means
approximately 1 p.c. gross on Mt. Lyell’s
capital. Mining costs in 1934-35, after
deducting the value of gold and silver
recovered, were £43 Is. lOd. Australian
per ton of electrolytic. Copper averaged
£33 Bs. 9d. stg. in London during that
term (about £4l 16s. Aust.). The ad-
vantages of the Australian market,
where most of Lyell’s output is sold, re-
sulted in a small profit on mining in
1934-35. This year copper should aver-
age £9 sterling a ton more ; subject to
possible increased mining and power
costs, most of that should be extra
profit. It will be remembered that
lower-grade ore has been mined this term
(but by cheaper methods) and that
drought early this year affected power
supplies for a few weeks. However,
earnings for 1935-36 should be well over
10 p.c. on capital.
* * * *
When British Tobacco's ordinary in-
terim, paid on Sept. 30, was unobtru-
sively lifted to 8 p.c. p.a., it was men-
tioned here. Though 6 p.c. was de-
clared for the term ended Oct., 1935, the
first interim in the new year was at 7
p.c. p.a. Chief Sydney and Melbourne
dailies still quote the stock on that
basis. Last week heavy buying, partly
on London account, sent the scrip to
48s„, at which figure the yield is 3.4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. In August there
was a sale at 40s. 3d. Barring the
C.S.R., the co. has a bigger share-
register than any co. in Australia.
* * * *
Factory employment in 1935-36 was
$ p.c. more than in the boom year 1928-
29. The working population has in-
creased from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c. in the
interval, so that, despite the depression,
re-employment in factories has caught up
with the growth in population. Though
most values have fallen since 1928-29,
it is probable that present volume of
Australian factory production has never
been exceeded.
H? % % %
The announcement that the North and
South Broken Hill cos. propose to sub-
divide their £1 shares (quoted at £9 18s.,
and £6 6s. respectively before notice was
given last week) will meet with the
approval of many sharebrokers, as it
should tend to stimulate turnover. At
least one committeeman on Melbourne
’Change, however, has expressed a dis-
like of share-subdivision in the past —
he made specific mention of Mt. Morgan,
where the shares, first of £1 each, were
split into ss. and then 2s. 6d. denomina-
tions. His argument was that it en-
couraged speculation rather than invest-
ment. There is no doubt that when Mt.
Morgan and Placer Development pro-
posed subdivision speculators bought
scrip in the belief that shares of smaller
denomination, having a wider market,
would appreciate. They were right as
regards Mt. Morgan’s first and second
split-ups. In the falling market after-
wards that co.’s third effort and Placer's
subdivision had little stimulating effect
on values. The Broken Hill co.’s scrip
advanced appreciably following last
week’s announcement. On Friday’s
prices ss. shares in North B.H. should
be worth 545. 6d. ; in B.H. South 355.
Lead and zinc quotations had shown little
alteration during the week.
* * * *
The awaited answer to the question of
what form the finance required by David
Jones, Ltd. (Sydney), in its new building
programme would take was given at
the co.’s annual meeting last week. An
issue of 200,000 ords., one for three, at
a premium of 10s., is to be made to
those on the share-register at Jan. 11,
1937. The new building, diagonallv
opposite the main premises, will be used
partly as a store and partly as a shop.
At 475., cum rights, when the new scrip
is fully paid the yield would be 4.7 p.c.
on a io p.c. div. basis.
* * # *
The astonishing turnover in Man-
dated Alluvials shares for about two
months gave way to staleness and in-
activity last week. Excessive market
gambling, this Page observed early in
the piece, often does incalculable harm
to mining; and in this case many
dabblers are feeling sick and sorry. The
stock was a great source of revenue to
Sydney sharebrokers while the boom
lasted, but there is now the aftermath.
It is to be hoped that results from the
mine will more than justify the present
market; proof will be some time in
coming, however.
* *
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of steel
in its latest month was 56,718 tons, a
particularly high figure. Activity at the
Newcastle works continues at increas-
ing pressure. The scrip was buoyant last
week at 795.
* * i[i *
Lady Shenton (Menzies, W.A.) is to
start “the necessary” alterations to the
crushing section of its plant this month.
The power equipment is also to be
overhauled, and a Westralian Govern-
ment geologist is to visit the mine in
December. The show has had a
troubled run as a producer. The share-
market is now apathetic.
if: >!: jj:
The industrial sharemarket continued
buoyant last week. Jn addition to the
ground won by B.H.P. and British
Tobacco, notable rises took place in
Waldas Shoes, Mauri Bros, and Thom-
son, Cash Orders Amalgamated, Adelaide
Steam, R. H. Gordon. Cumberland
Paper, Electrolytic Zinc and Henry
Jones. David Jones ords. eased slightly,
and Kandos scrip sagged owing to tariff-
alteration threats.


mem
Merits Beat the Market
Shares in a company, however sound,
may not prove to be a sound invest-
ment to the holder if the price he paid
was too high. Price is an all-important
factor in buying anything, and this fact
holds good with stocks and shares to a
special degree
‘ Prices are often deceiving. Broken
Hill Prop, shares, quoted Jt 795. last
week, are regarded by some as “too
high." This is not always put forward by
people lacking the full £395 necessary
to buy the usual parcel of 100 either. A
feeling is held by a section of investors
that a premium of 595. on a 20s. share
in itself is a danger signal.
it does not follow. Broken Hill Prop.’s
disclosed earning power last year was
24.4 p.c. on average capital—nearly
twice the amount required to pay the
124- p.c. dividend. Visible net tangible
assets will be over 40s. per share when
all the new capital is in. In addition,
there is evidence that more than
£1.500,000 of capital at present is bring-
i ng nothing into the p. and 1. account,
? n tbe c - s ast . Z 6 ™ £2,167,597 went
mto investments (A I. and S. ord shares
were on f Purchase), and little, if any,
revenue has so far come to hand from
this outlay. It all indicates, when dis-
.dos?d ea ™2 8 po .T r is .,. considered ' a
tradmg and fina " clal po ?'- tlon except ‘T
aU s , “ und - That posit,on cannot be
a ® sa ! led ™. B rou " ds covering the co. s
e^c,enc y either.
11 Wlll be found that B.H.P. gives a
present return of around 3.1 p.c. on a
12* p.c. div. basis. On the low side,
perhaps. But prospects—so far as pros-
P e^ s are capable of being judged in key
industries at present are excellent.
From B.H.P. at 795. we may turn to
the “cheap” stuff—equities in various in-
dustries and trades at prices usually
below £1 a share. Speaking in general
terms, there is nearly always one out-
standing danger in dabbling here. Such
scrip is often bought because a large
quantity can be acquired for small
outlay, and when conditions appear
buoyant the prospects of making a sub-
stantial profit on a medium market rise
have a mesmeric effect on some investors,
But it also follows that medium market
falls will produce substantial losses,
Often scrip bought below par brings in
no income by way of dividends. Such
investments are usually far more specu-
lative than highly-priced first-class stocks;
oro.in-.Pnt Bprp is not tW nil
The argument here is not that all
dear shares are good and cheap
issues bad. It is that investments should
be bought on a careful study of their
merits. The majority of Stock Exchange
followers would to-day be much better
off if they recognised this rule and in the
past had given less regard to market
“tone ”
_ , . ————i
Bankers and Traders insurance shares,
now listed in Sydney and Melbourne,
changed hands' in small parcels of JOG
last week. The 10s. scrip fetches around
305., yielding 2.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. Last year, however, 20 p.c. was
netted on capital, and the stage is set
for something better than a 7 p.c. div.
whenever the board feels disposed. It
is one of the most promising insurance
stocks offering.
* * * *
, Me | bourne | ast week:-
Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo) announced
a fourth div. of Is. and a crushing ot 280 tons
for 1340 z (average 9-6 dwt.), as against 266
j ons f or i49 OZ- (il.2dwt.) previously. Most
Q f the ore, it is claimed, has come from de-
velopment in the process of establishing ore
reserves. Market valuation is around £120,000.
Broken Hill Prop, declared an unchanged
interim div. of 12£ p.c. p.a.
Carlton Brewery scrip rose to the record
price of 665. 6d.
Waldas Shoes ords. lifted to 395. following
the appo intment of N. B. Rydge to .the direc-
torate.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Last of the Mohicans”
Excellent casting, an elaborate period
setting and a discriminating use of the
dramatic material available characterise
this exposition of Fenimore Cooper’s
romance, but they cannot make it cred-
ible ; all this effort merely just avoids a
burlesque effect. With the exception
of Hawkeye the scout (Randolph Scott)
and his Indian associate (Robert
Barrat),. the characters mingle such
appalling stupidity with their nobility
Robert Barrat as the last MoHEEcan in
“The Last of the Mohicans." at Sydney
Regent.
that their preservation (they are always
just on the brink of awful catastrophe)
seems more a sociological calamity than
a matter for rejoicing. But, of course,
those other characters (they include
Binnie Barnes and Henry Wilcoxon) are
Britishers, so perhaps that is the inten-
tion.
Exactly who was the “last of the
Mohicans,” whether it was the rather
futile young Indian who flirt's with
Heather Angel and then jumps over a
cliff with her to escape a fate worse
than death, or the stern-faced chief
with Robert Barrat’s lineaments who
slays the treacherous Huron (Bruce
Cabot) in a tomahawk duel, this de-
ponent was unable to 4 'discover. Neither
could he understand how Hawkeye,
after being tortured by the squaws and
partially burned at the stake, could turn
up a little later not a penny the worse.
However, the story moves briskly, battle
scenes are done with every ounce of skill
Hollywood can command, and the end
is happy. At' Sydney Regent.
‘ ‘Second Wife”
Beautiful and highly-sensitive girl (Ger-
trude Michael) marries 10-months-
widowed young N’Yark lawyer (Walter
Abel) who has an 11-year-old son. Boy
is sent to a boarding-school in Switzer-
land. Just when second wife is going to
have first baby, boy goes down with
typhoid. Father literally flies to his son
(in the dirigible Hindenburg); expectant
mother decides never to forgive him, and
as soon as baby is born prepares to elope
with another man (Erik Rhodes). But
other man draws line at baby, whereupon
wife sees a great white light. Mother-
love is the same as father-love. So she
forgives hubby, brings her stepson from
boarding-school, and lives happily ever
after. A rather strained and artificial
evocation of the domestic sentiments, but
it has its moments. At Sydney Regent.
“Bengal Tiger”
Despite a few ultra-purple patches,
quite attractive. Plot is feasible, there is
plenty of action, acting is sound and the
theme is presented concisely and clearly.
Circus scenes are finely done, vivid
realism marking the human bestiality
which is vented on untamed jungle
animals to make a holiday for patrons.
Cliff Ballenger (Barton Mac Lane)
“works the cats” at a circus ; his pal,
Joe Larson (Warren Hull), does an aerial
trapeze stunt. One night Cliff, full of
beer and boastfulness, goes into the cage
of Satan, an untamed Bengal tiger, to put
it through its paces. It attacks him, and
Carl (Paul Graetz), his assistant, who
goes to his rescue, is killed, while Cliff
loses a leg.
On his recovery Cliff dutifully takes
care, of Carl’s daughter Laura (June
Travis), and later pity and gratitude com-
bine to make her agree to his proposal
of marriage. When he introduces Joe
the inevitable triangle forms, the climax
being one of the aforementioned ultra-
purple patches. Nevertheless, it is highly
exciting, with the two men in the mad-
dened Satan’s cage.
Barton Mac Lane is excellent as a
blustering, bibulous, but true-hearted
animal-tamer. He is well backed-up by
Warren Hull. June Travis is well-suited,
and Paul Graetz and Joseph King add
well-defined character parts. At Sydney
Capitol.
“The Three Wise Guys”
Betty Furness is a member of a gang
of swindlers. Her specialty is fainting
from hunger in trains, so that the kind-
hearted passengers shall pass round the
hat. But that, of course, is just a pass-
ing phase. As soon as she is married
to millionaire’s ne’er-do-well son
(Robert Young), she becomes a high-
minded heroine. As dad cuts his off-
spring off without a dime, son has to
go to work as a clerk. He is framed
for a robbery committed by Betty’s
former associates (Bruce Cabot is one
of them), but when they discover that
she is the mother of an innocent little
Randolph Scott as Hawkeye in “The Last
of the Mohicans.”
chee-ild tears well to the hard eyes, the
granite hearts become as soft as pap,
and they return the loot to its rightful
owners. The young husband and father
emerges from his prison cell to become
vice-president of his old man’s rail-
road, and Betty is in the money again.
At Sydney Civic.
“Exclusive Story”
A rather tangled gangster romance in
which Joseph Calleia and Robert Barrat
welter in iniquity and Franchot
Tone, as a young lawyer, Stuart Erwin,
as a reporter, and Madge Evans, as a
grocer’s lovely daughter, are on the side
of the angels. Tone parachutes from a
’plane to take aid to a burning steamer,
is saved from an alarm-clock bomb, and
finally, entirely through the efforts of
the heroic goil, traces the bad men to
their lair. Brightest ray in a fantasia
which wastes a good deal of time over
Henry Wilcoxon as Col. Hayward in
“The Last of the Mohicans.”
trivial irrelevancies is Erwin’s char-
acterisation of a newspaperman, which
keeps Well inside the four walls of
probability. At Sydney Civic.
“The Amazing Quest of Ernest Bliss”
Picturised from an Oppenheim novel
about a handsome young millionaire
who, on a bet, endeavored to earn his
own living in London for a year. He
becomes a fairy godfather to the various
deserving cases he meets in his peregrina-
tions, falls in love with an office girl,
foils her Would-be seducer, polishes off
caitiffs who are trying to operate on his
bank account with forged cheques, and
has other delectable and stirring adven-
tures. Cary Grant is Mr. Bliss, Mary
Brian is the girl; the rest of the cast is
unmistakably English. Action drags at
the commencement, but moves more
briskly later on. Situations are all more
or less hackneyed and the. sentiment is
that of the penny novelette, but the
fairy-tale provides very fair entertain-
ment. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Fame”
Sydney Howard is a shopwalker, stage-
struck and much given to getting tangled
up in the drapery. He wins a newspaper
competition the prize of which is the
star foie in a film entitled “Cromwell.”
As a movie actor he is an utter dud, and
after enjoying delusions of grandeur for
a space he is thrown out of the studio
and goes sadly back home. Howard
works hard for laughs. His waistcoat
buttons fly off when he eats a hearty
meal; a flowerpot falls on his head when
he addresses a cheering crowd of
villagers ; when he plays billiards he cuts
the cloth to ribbons; his hat is always a
size too small and his make-up as the
Lord Protector is ludicrous. Presumably
the intention is to present a rib-tickling
farce, but the effect is pathetic when it is
not boring and depressing. Mr. Howard’s
talents, effective enough on the stage, are
not of the sort that shine with enhanced
lustre on the silver screen. At Sydney
Lyceum.
Home Movies in Color
The Eastman Kodak Co.’s research de-
partment has for years been experiment-
ing with photography in natural colors.
The established systems, which involve
either a multiplicity of plates or screens
or a lot of fiddling about with filters,
don’t fit in with the Kodak slogan “You
press the button; we do the rest.” The
Kodak technicians therefore set them-
selves the task of evolving a process that
should require only one film and no
screens or filters. A tall order, but it has
been filled.
Last week in Kodak’s Sydney project-
ing room, a film made with Kodachrome
was presented. It represented the arrival
of the Queen Mary in New York harbor,
and was in every sense of the word a bril-
liant exposition of the possibilities of the
Kodachrome process. Sea, sky, the hues
of multicolored flags, the vivid red of the
liner’s funnels, the white and orange of
ferryboats, the black and brown of tugs
were reproduced in clear, sharp focus,
without a trace of mesh, grain or haze.
The general effect was that of a series
of water-color designs, done by some
superb draughtsman and consummate
master of color, and' animated by magic.
Everything is in the film —Uhe dyes, the
screens, the whole box of tricks. All the
amateur cinematographer has to do is to
put a reel of Kodachrome in his Bmm. or
16mm. camera and turn the handle.
Necessarily Kodachrome is slower than
fast ordinary films, but not so slow as
to necessitate bright sunlight. Develop-
ing is a process that the Kodak Co.
attends to.
Kodachrome is not yet on the Austra-
lian market, but it very soon will be, and
the. amateurs who have been turning out
such fine artistic work in monochrome
will have at their disposal a whole new
world of enticing possibilities.
Some First Nights
La Meri, the dancer, who opened her
Sydney season at the Royal on Thursday
night, is unquestionably good.
Her first-night programme included
Spanish, Mexican, Oriental and modern
dances in colorful costumes. One of
the best was the Andalusian folk-dance
“Vide Breve,” from De Falla’s opera.
The “White Peacock” dance, in which
the nervous strutting of the bird is imi-
Bruce Cabot as the treacherous Huron
in “The Last of the Mohicans."
tated with remarkable similitude, was
also a favorite.
But it was in dances possessing a
humorous touch that the audience found
greatest appeal. Noticeably, too, those
in which the musical settings were
familiar —Dvorak, Scriabin and Delibes
—aroused greater interest than the
Oriental and Mexican dances.
A difficult' task is set a solo dancer,
no matter how accomplished, to hold
an audience’s interest throughout a per-
formance. The variety which a second
dancer, as billed, might have added was
missed, as she failed to appear, and the


w
m
tiffii
m
MM
■mm.m
A
V-8 —The Mark of a Fine Car
THE Ford V-8 is the choice of an increasing
number of discriminating motorists because
it is a thoroughly fine car—as fine in perform-
ance, comfort and safety as in appearance and
appointment. It’s altogether modern this alert,
spirited Ford V-B—in a class by itself because
of many exclusive features. Drive the V-8
and experience its outstanding qualities—your
Ford dealer will gladly place a car at your
disposal. Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
FORD-PHILCO CAR RADIO
The latest luxury for your Ford V-8. Ford-Philco is
car Radio at its very best. Superheterodyne circuit
with Perdynamic Speaker gives exceptional range per-
formance land tone. Ask your Ford dealer to demonstrate.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F104.24.V
defection threw a bigger onus on La
Meri. Such entertainment, unalloyed, is
just barely sufficient to satisfy without
cloying.
It was fortunate that the musical side
of the programme was strong, thus
forming a nice counterbalance. A trio
consisting of Mario Salerno (pianist),
Thomas Challen (violinist) and Joan
Howley (’cellist) was quite impressive in
compositions by Tschaikowsky, Haydn,
Moszkowski, Ravel, Albeniz and Frank
Bridge. Salerno proved himself a
solo pianist of considerable skill, and
his rendering of the Liszt “Rigoletto
Paraphrase” was neatly done.
•b *l* *l*
As musical comedies go “The Gipsy
Princess,” now showing for the first time
in Melbourne, has some claim to being
good—very good when Gladys Moncrieff
sings and Charles Heslop fools cleverly.
But isn’t it time musical comedy gave
just a little ground? It is 15 years since
it reached its prime with “The Maid of
the Mountains.” Its descendants cling
like grim death to the old theory that
heredity is stronger than environment.
They have all looked the same, be-
haved in the same way, and sung
their way through life in the same
Ruritania. The handsome prince is
al ways there with his jacket flapping over
his shoulder and his breast weighted like
some kindergarten bead-counter. He
always wants to marry someone whom
father and mother believe to be below
their “exalted station,” as Marie La
Varre inevitably puts it in this show.
Fifteen years is a fairly prolonged
adolescence, and musical comedy is just
about old enough to lift up its head and
think out a new angle. The films are
doing it, and the straight drama is doing
it The pretty tunes, the pretty dresses
and the pretty girls can stay—must stay,
of course—but a librettist who walked
off the beaten track would keep them here
much longer.
“J* 4*
Dr. Sargent received enough green
horseshoes from Melbourne’s music-
lovers last week to shoe a team of
Pegasuses. Wednesday’s programme was
all Elgar, even to the elaborate setting
of the National Anthem. The Serenade
for Strings, Op. 20, a \jjork of Elgar’s
musical immaturity, contained the germs
of the majestic “Dream of Gerontius,”
which filled the remainder of the evening.
Elgar’s music appears to fit it like a
glove, and the dynamic English conduc-
tor showed just how it fitted. The chorus
of assistants, and later of demons, per-
formed by a specially-augmented choir
which had been carefully prepared by
George English, was extraordinarily im-
pressive, and Frederick Williamson’s
voice was adequate to the role of Geron-
tius, although there was a note of hesi-
tation in it at the beginning. The Priest,
and later the Angel of Agony, had at his
disposal Frederick Collier’s operatic bari-
tone, and Dorothy Helmrich made most
of the drama and emotion as angelic
guide of the Soul to Purgatory. The long
prelude was beautifully rendered by the
Symphony Orchestra.
Dr. Sargent’s Melbourne season ended
in a blaze of glory on Saturday. The
conductor doubled his output of gestures
and drew more heavily than ever on his
reserves of facial expression. Watching
his slim back and shoulders it was almost
possible to imagine that one could see
the music. A Brahms overture led off
the proceedings, and was followed by the
Symphony No. 1 in E minor, Op. 39, of
Sibelius. The musicians ran through the
whole gamut of color effects in the first
movement, sobered up in the lovely
second part, took the third with the speed
of an express train, and in the finale
leached a climax which might have ended
the opus very effectively if the composer
hadn’t thought it better to have a gentle
finish. Local pianist Marshall Sumner
made a brief appearance in the Franck
Symphonic Variations for piano and
orchestra and was recalled several times
for a very delicate performance.
The Sargent setting for strings and
woodwind of the familiar Air on the G
String of Bach was one of the pleasantest
parts of the evening. In the Mars and
Jupiter of Gustav Holst’s “The Planets”
the conductor made his final bow to Mel-
bourne audiences. The Jupiter came after
the Mars section, but it was the latter
that stuck in the memory. A typical
piece of modern music, it is all uproar
and confusion against a maddening back-
ground of monotonous drumbeats, but
Sargent shaped it into something so
coherent that the listener was left with
the feeling that modern composers have
not always had a fair showing in Mel-
bourne.
•5* 4* 4*
The S.A. Government bought 500
tickets for the De Basil Monte Carlo
Russian Ballet to encourage it to make
its first Australian showing in Adelaide,
The opening show is the conventional
"Sylphides,” toe-dancing to Chopin’s
music in the manner of 1840 ; also the
duo dance of the Rose Dream, mostly
Weber. Fokine and Bakst have been
heavily drawn upon for the settings. The
main dish is “Scheherazade” (Rimsky-
Korsakoff), the hottest thing in the
"Arabian Nights,” tragically presented,
The queen and her ladies entertain the
negro slaves m an orgy, till the king re-
turns unexpectedly and butchers the Jot.
Froman and Raievska get a chance here
in straight acting; but, incredibly, the
important Chief Eunuch is played as a
circus clown with false nose.
Humor is the ballet’s weak point, as
is proved in “Fantastic Toy-shop” (music
by Rossini), the old theme of dolls
coming to life, but with a batch of bur-
lesque customers. Dancing is glorious,
buffoonery Continental, and some of it
what Gilbert called “too French.”
The co. has no Pavlova, Genee or
Nijinsky, but it has several artists whom
people may in a few years like to boast
of having seen. At first sight Woizikow-
sky, Youssekevitch and Slavinski seem to
stand out among the men and Kirsova,
Blinova and Raievska among the girls.
The big orchestra has as conductor
Horenstem, from Berlin, with Clayton
re levmg. ....
“c ri vi A , T .
Sordid Story,” by a M.L. journalist,
J. A. S. Coppard, was the most interest-
ing item of Terence Crisp’s “provocative
plays” season in Melbourne. The author
has made a working model of the
mechanisms of the mind of a very ordi-
nary man, with human puppets as the
parts. The stage is the inside of the
cranium and the puppets the forces which
govern the man’s conduct. The Operator,
synchronising reflex actions with nerve
impulses, represents the character or soul
of the little Cockney. A figure peering
through an eye window in the back-
cloth is visual messages, another figure is
aural interpretations. Memory, swathed
in sombre draperies with a volume on
his knee, sits in the centre of the stage,
and three figures represent Fear, Jealousy
and Anger.
The Cockney is waiting in the rain for
his girl. She’s late. Jealousy whispers
of his rival. The girl arrives. The audi-
ence senses her as a common little thing,
She has an unexplained pound-note in
her purse. Anger makes the Cockney
lose control. He hits the girl, who falls
and lies still. Fear rises. The man has
killed the girl. He runs, but there is a
policeman after him. A shot is fired,
All signals, and last of all the heart
beats, gradually cease.
The morbidity of the play does not
detract from its strength. The author’s
uncanny success lies in the fact that he
C an make his audience sympathise with
the Cockney boy. The players did ex-
ceedingly well—badly-acted, the thing
would be an appalling flop. Henry Allen
was Reason, or the Man. Richard
Davies whose diction is a delight, was
Memory Clare Molomby and Betty
Henry were Eye and Ear, and Valerie
Paling, Joyce Evans and Helena Moyes
represented Jealousy, Anger and Fear,
* * * *
.
Samuel Raphaelson s Accent on
Youth,” presented at Melbourne Garrick
by the Cairns Memorial Players as their
300th performance in 15 years, is a tech-
nical love study . it shows the flickering
fi res in a man growing old, their reaction
on a young the attraction of youth
for youth; and the ultimate triumph of
the older man’s understanding technique
over the Msty young man s inexperience.
Producer Gaston Mervale found in Fred-
erick Trotter the player for Stephen
Gaye, playwright, indulging in elderly
love whims. H. N. Gregory, as Gaye’s
butler Flogdell, and William Reynolds, as
the pompous old actor Galloway, gave
him able support. Loveday Hills, as
Genevieve Lang, a sophisticated young
woman bluntly chasing love, is capable
of a more important role than that
offered her by Raphaelson’s comedy,
Dorothy Bush, playing the feminine lead
as Linda Brown, Gaye’s secretary, actress
and mistress, could have stolen the show
from Trotter if she had forgotten the
audience; as it was, she recited magni-
ficently as Dorothy Bush, but was rarely
Linda Brown. Frederick May, the too,
too boyish Dickie Reynolds, who first
calls Linda from Gaye’s arms and later
drives her back to them, was jerky and
unconvincing in a difficult part, Trotter’s
acting was smooth enough to remove
rough edges and weld the production into
one that pleased even the Clan Cameron
that filled a large part of the crowded
house.
r' l lirr ~ r |f ArfKnvcfc
/A.rlOUrstS
Dora Wilson, whose show occupies the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, has been
looking at the street scenes in Sydney and
th Australian ranitak with an artist’s
oth£ r Australian capitals with an artist s
e^e * or some years. Apparently the
more she looks at them the more she
likes them, for the backbone of her
latest exhibition is a series of glimpses
of Sydney and Melbourne. She has mas-
tered the coloring, and her perspective
is excellent, so that her impressions don’t
look decorative but unfamiliar as so
many such essays do, but decorative and
unmistakably authentic. Miss Wilson
has tackled Pyrmont Bridge (Sydney) and
its picturesque environs with complete
success ; gets the gaiety of the tree-lined
streets of Darlinghurst in “Color
Medley,” and pays a sincere and grace-
ful compliment to Melbourne in “Spring-
tinlie;. , SwanSt ? I {:f. - t Soi 2 e att ™ctive
notably White Horses and
plum Blossom, diversify the show.
* * * *
Lloyd Rees has recently been super-
impOSing on the products of his magic
£ .. • . *
P enc |l a coat °t 01 1 P a mt, with results
varying from complete success to in-
effective eccentricity. Almost all of his
paintings (on view just now at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney) seem to be ex-
perimental, and some of the effects
attained are remarkable. One of the
most ambitious of these efforts, “Spring
Afternoon,” has quite a Gruneresque
charm and delicacy, “A Street in Parra-
matta” appeals by reason of its simple
sincerity. “Evening Light” is a study of
the sandstone note in the round-Sydney
landscape painted with all the snap and
brilliance of Streeton. Other studies are
correct enough in color notation, but
look as flat as a map. A small collec-
tion of pen and pencil drawings in the
best Rees style is the most artistic, if not
the most interesting, part of the exhibi-
tion.


WE OFFER/
WHAT
\iott III People
Desire
Homeiv com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni-
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney.
I
a
WENTWORTH fiotel
BRIDGE PARK
SYDNEY
B\v x30l
hort Story
r Writing
tyree Lance
( Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time! Course of Training ever written?
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . • . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Svdnev
Est. 1818.
THE GENUINE DANISH
HEERING’S
CHERRY
BRANDY
THE LIQUEUR FOR
THE DISCRIMINATING PALATE.
When you call for Cherry
Brandy, see that you get
Heering’s.
Supplied by all Hotels and
Spirit Stores in Bottles and
Wine and
l Bottles.
If any difficulty in obtaining supplies, please
refer to the Sole Australian Agents,
SWIFT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane. Perth and Adelaide.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Maoriland’s flying girl, Jean Batten,
flew over .Sydney after breaking Broad-
bent’s solo record from England to Aus-
tralia by more than a day. Five thou-
sand people were at the Kingsford Smith
aerodrome at Mascot to welcome her.
About 20 ’planes went out to escort
the flier in. May Bradford, in her red
Klemm-Eagle, was one of the pilots.
The aerial cavalcade- returned, having
failed to pick the record-breaker up.
The escort went out a second time. The
man at the microphone announced that
Miss Batten was on her way. Cheers
from the crowd. More cheers as the
Percival Gull with its green body and
silver wings taxied to a standstill. Jean
stood up, the enthusiasm grew greater.
She stepped out of the cockpit, a trim
figure in a white helmet, a khaki coat
over her white flying kit. She stood
on the motor-lorry and the crowd broke
into “For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow.”
First to welcome her was the presi-
dent of the Royal Aero Club, Flight-
Lieut. N. Mulroney. He was at the
door of the ’plane as soon as it stopped.
Two policemen escorted the day’s
heroine down a laneway of cheering
people ; two women broke through the
bounds and kissed her. Someone called
"Kia ora.” The dais was reached. Here
Captain Lassen brought the State
Governor’s welcome; the State Com-
mandant, Brigadier Hardie, gave the
Commonwealth Government’s greeting.
The Deputy Lord Mayor, Alderman G.
Parkes, on behalf of the Lord Mayor,
offered the flier the equivalent to the
freedom of the city. Mrs. Prentice was
spokeswoman for the N.Z, Association.
Mrs. Cameron for the Feminists. A
proud man was M.L. Trade Commis-
sioner Taylor as he welcomed his
countrywoman. He, like every other
speaker, wished her success in her Tas-
man flight. But no one listened to the
speeches. The people wanted to hear
Jean.
Her voice came clear and distinct
with no hint of tiredness. Her speech
was short. She just thanked everybody
for the welcome they had given her, said
how pleased she was to have arrived on
such a beautiful day, and apologised for
being late. Her last words, “But it’s a
woman’s privilege to be late,” evoked
laughter. No one started for home until
Jean got into the clubhouse. Here there
were cables, telegrams, letters and
flowers, introductions to be acknow-
ledged and questions to be answered,
and, best of all, the longed-for cup of
tea and a sandwich.
Excitement was not confined to Mas-
cot. The wireless was going in every
home. On the north side of the harbor,
balconies and lawns were thronged, eyes
focused on the bridge watching for the
V formation of the escort, the signal
that Jean had arrived. When the roar
of the engines was heard, the windows
and tops of buildings in the city be-
came alive with watchers. Pedestrians
paused in their going, workmen stopped
—the work of Sydney was held up while
the silver-winged ’plane flew over the
city.
Jean doesn’t believe in facing the
camera with sunburnt, leathery-looking
skin. Except for her tired-looking eyes,
she might have just stepped out of a
beauty parlor, with her powdered nose,
her scarlet line of a mouth and her
well-brushed eyebrows. Jean has an eye
for a hat—the Paris model she brought
with her is proof of this. In her market
bag with its zip fastener she had packed
plenty of cold cream, a grey flannel cos-
tume, a camel-hair coat (she was wear-
ing a khaki one when she landed), two
afternoon frocks and an extra pair of
shoes. She is not superstitious—the
blouse she wore on arriving was green.
Cheers again for Jean Batten on so
splendidly completing her flight. The
take-off from the flare-lit aerodrome <d
Richmond was watched by a compara-
tively small group. Captain P. G. Taylor
stood by until the last. Everyone wished
Jean godspeed and a happy landing. The
night before she had dinner in the
R.A.A.F. officers’ mess. Jean is the first
woman the R.A.A.F. has entertained.
Here is Pat de Pledge, who with her
sister was the guest of the Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie at Admiralty
House during the spring race-week festi-
vities. The two girls have taken a flat
in Melbourne for Cup Week. Dorothy
Welding made the portrait.
A distinguished woman visitor of last
week was Professor Winifred Cull is, of
London. Her subject is physiology. She
is also chairman of the Education
Council of the E.S.U. and ex-president
of the International Federation of Uni-
versity Women. She came to Sydney by
way of South Australia, where she had
been the guest of the Centenary Council.
She said her most exciting experience
there was being asked to give the first
lecture at the new Bonython Hall at
Adelaide Uni., as she could think only
of the rows and rows of empty chairs.
However, hundreds turned up. Her first
day in Sydney was spent motoring to
Bulli and Sublime Pass. She was
delighted with the scenery and with the
luncheon, which proved that her hosts,
the Australian Federation of University
Women, as well as being learned, knew
something of the art of cooking.
In the evening of the day at which the
E.S.U. entertained in her honor, Dame
Constance D’Arcy gave Prof. Cullis a
dinner at the Macquarie Club. At this
were all the academic bigwigs. After-
wards all (with the exception of Mungo
MacCallum and his lady) came on to the
party at Elizabeth Bay House.
Seldom has this old home had so many
of Sydney’s brilliant women under its
roof at one time. The party was given
by the Australian Federation of Univer-
sity Women and Sydney Uni. women
graduates.
Dame Constance D’Arcy, president of
the federation, received the guests. Her
frock of navy blue chiffon had its wide
sleeves flower embroidered. Dr. Cullis
was striking in parchment lace, with
which she wore a rope of pearls. Miss
Monica Flower, president of the women
graduates, sported a short black tulle
jacket that had a tiny basque; her black
velvet skirt had a short train. Eileen
Fitzpatrick’s finger-length coat was of
quilted white taffeta. Miss A. M. L.
Gillespie was there; so was Miss I. M.
Fidler, who pinned a spray of lilac in
her larkspur-blue crepes. Mrs. Parr and
her daughter Sally, visitors from Perth,
enjoyed everything, the view included.
Mrs. Dunbabin’s black and silver frock
was distinctive. Esmay Burfitt’s laces
were the blue of a summer sky. She
brought Mona Cahill, of Narromine, who
combined black velvet and cream lace
with good effect. Gladys Marks, acting-
professor of French, was one of the
importants. Dorothy Bowden’s emerald-
green moire coat was long and fitting.
Leonie Bond, who has decided to go in
for a social-service career, wore black
tulle.
With her 16 changes of costume La
Meri presented 16 different personalities
at the Royal. The costumes were superb.
They are said to be authentic, with even
the jewels true to period. The floor of
the stage, covered in off-white felt, and
curtains black or brown as the lights dic-
tated helped to give the right atmosphere
for the dancer.
Featherweight velvet fashioned the cos-
tume for the “White Peacock” number.
The headdress fitted as firmly as a bathing
cap ; the tunic-like front came half-way
to the knees, and then fell away into a
wide spreading tail. Three very long
pheasant-like feathers were the high-
lights in the headdress of the Chinese
costume. Beige lace formed the man-
tilla and the fn ck worn by La Meri
in her opening number. The skirt, very
befrilled, had a trail of red roses reach-
ing from the waist to hem. But perhaps
the dressing of the Goycsca number was
the most gorgeous. Of yellow satin, this
had deep flounces of black lace that
began at the waist and finished at the
hem. The very spreading skirt of the
period was lined with black, and showed
rows of narrow gold lace spaced about
eight inches apart. Add a high tortoise-
shell comb and a black mantilla and you
have a figure that might have stepped
out of a Goya canvas at the Prado,
Madrid, on to the stage of the Royal.
The, Bertie Kellys had their usual seats
in the front row of the dress-circle.
Archdale Parkhill’s lady’s black frock
was patterned in gold ; daughter Gwenda's
pink taffetas ran to a frilled train at the
back. The Lionel Dares came; her
white satins were topped with a shoulder
cape of pink ostrich feathers. Joan Tait
and Mrs. J. D. McLeod sat together.
Sheila Whytock and Mrs. J. T. McDonald
were among the most interested. Lute
Drummond’s attention never wandered.
She was as interested in the music as in
the dance. Frances Scully, Mildred Hill.
Nora Williamson, knight Harry Budge
and his lady and the Consul-General for
Italy, Dr. P. Vita-Finzi, and Mrs. Vita-
Finzi were others who enjoyed every
minute of the night.
Freeman pictures here ’cellist Georgina
Cornell, who, if she hadn’t won the Lay-
man Martin Harrison scholarship, would
have gone to England next year for the
Coronation. Gladstone Bell is her
teacher.
The White Star-Aberdeen Line lent the
Ceramic for the dance in aid of the Far
West Children’s Health Scheme. The
liner, just returned after strenuous beauty
treatment, was a blaze of light. Colored
electrics encircled her like a girdle, and
flags and bunting enclosed her decks.
E. A. Eva (manager in Australia for the
line) and Mrs. Eva were among the im-
portants. The Stanley Drummonds were
Gthers. Knight Philip Street brought his
wife in a fragile frock of black lace and
pink chiffon. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
George A. Parkes) came with her hus-
band. Premier Stevens’s wife wore black
chiffons. Mrs. G. B. Winn (her husband
was joint treasurer with Betty Clubb)
danced in rose-printed black chiffons.
Betty Clubb’s chiffons were lacquer red.
The president of the ball committee was
Mrs. H. V. Thorby, whose caped frock
was of leaf-green georgette. There were
two hon. secs., Mrs. Keith Morris and
Sylvia Thorby, the one in mist-grey net
and taffeta, the other in blue-flowered
chiffon. Major and Mrs. H. N. Boyle
and Captain and Mrs. P. J. Manly
brought a military flavor to the night,
and the Eric Harrison couple were among
those who helped to make up the 700.
Bridge was played at Elizabeth Bay
House in the interests of the Adult Deaf
and Dumb. Mrs. Roystone Davey, the
honorary organiser, sat in a high-backed
chair in the hall and gave players the
numbers of their tables. Friends, as they
paused, told her how pleased they were
to see her after her long illness. It took
someone as slim as Mrs. George
Humphreys to wedge her away between
the tables to collect the money. Upstairs
and downstairs the game went on. Even
the “bride’s room,” reserved ordinarily
for changing from bridal into travelling
frock, had its quota of tables. Even the
keenest players sitting upstairs didn’t re-
sent the time, spent in negotiating the
stairs when they saw the tea-tables in
the dining-room and on the verandahs.
These were positively overflowing with
savories and sandwiches and cakes.
Yellow tulips, purple iris and snap-
dragons provided color. Philip Street’s
wife (the senior vice-president of the
society) was there, and the Lady Mayor-
ess (Mrs. George A. Parkes) shuffled
cards for the cause. Mrs. Harry Drans-
field and Mrs. Wentworth Grayson,
members of the committee, brought
parties.
At the annual meeting of the West
Australian Association, Mrs. W. A.
Robbins was elected hon. treas. in place
of Mrs. Goodisson, whose name will now
be on the letter paper as life vice-presi-
dent. All the other office-bearers, from
the president down, were re-elected un-
opposed. After the meeting there was the
usual “Wongi,” at which Norma Parker,
almoner at St. Vincent’s Hospital, was
the guest of honor. The musical pro-
gramme was arranged by Mrs. Stephen
Herford, and there was community sing-
ing led by F. M. Johnson.
Bits of Sydney as seen through the
eyes of Melbourne artist Dora Wilson, as
well as bits of her own city, are hanging
in the Grosvenor Galleries. “Burdekin-
the-Less” (a slice of a white old-fashioned
house christened by Mrs. W. Epps when
the original Burdekin House was de-
molished) has found a home at Bunda-
berg (Q.), Dr. Egmont Smith being the
purchaser. Another canvas bespoke be-
fore the show was “An Autumn Morn-
ing.” This is a corner of Hyde Park with
the Archibald fountain in the fore-
ground.
Poetess Dorothea Mackellar was to
have opened the show, but 'flu or its
equivalent decided otherwise. In her
place came Dorothea's friend, Mrs.
George Adams, of Melbourne. Mrs.
Adams’s posy was of red roses set about
with green cobsea scandens and mignon-
ette, the stalks tightly bound with green
ribbons. She said “I am the only mem-
ber of my family who is not used to mak-
ing speeches.” Sydney people know that
speechmaking holds no terror for her
sister, Janet Mitchell. Artist Woodward
Smith was one who found the canvases
more than pleasant. So did Mrs. L. J.
Hurley. Mrs. David Pratten looked at
them from under a white hat, Mrs. M.
Goldfinch’s blouse and hat were lobelia
blue and Mrs. Sydney Gilfillan s red
crepes were daisy-patterned.
An exhibition of water-colors and oils
by G. G. Commons will be opened by
Julian Ashton on October 28 at 3 p.m.
at the, Macleod Galleries, Bulletin Build-
ings. The collection is the work of
many years.


THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery, ”
252 George Street (near Bridge Street).
ADMISSION
free.
Special Exhibition of Paintings
by Donald Commons.
To be opened by Mr. Julian Ashton
_ OI J
Wednesday, October 28, at 3 p.m.
LEIPZIG
F
IR
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
The fact that approximately 200.000 buyers
from the five continents travel to Leipzig
twice yearly for their trading requirements
proves the world-wide importance of this
huge market.
Everything new, novel and useful, the products of
8,000 manufacturers from 25 countries, is displayed
at prices that permit very satisfactory resale profits.
You cannot afford to overlook Leipzig in your
merchandising plans.
COMMENCES FEB. 28, 1937.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available from LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Com-
missioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade Pair;
L. MERSEY, Technical Adviser, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
< ■ N. KF.PPEL, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street.
G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
11. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Slienton Park, West Australia.
Melbourne
Chatter
It was a tunic-ridden Caulfield Cup ;
as to millinery, the crazier the hat the
happier the wearer. Tunics came in
flowered materials or plain silks, worn
with contrasting skirts. Also very popu-
lar, in spite of the morning’s promise of
a perfect day, were tailored suits of
heavyweight silk or flannel, often grey.
A distinctive visitor from Kansas City
(U.S.A.) was Mrs. M. J. Healy, whose
loosely-woven oatmeal-shaded tweed
went with Arctic fox furs and a tilted
brown hat. Another American, Dorothy
Hardy, who is staying with her cousin
Peggy Fraser, wore a plainly-cut black
frock and a Pied Piper hat. An overseas
identity, H. A. R. P. Bennett, ex-Prime
Minister of Canada (who, incidentally, is
a bachelor), was escorted round the
course and stands by Major Harold
Wilkinson.
M rs. Lindsay Mildred was an advocate
for navy-blue, with the crown of her
straw hat persuaded into the shape of
tiny moth’s wings with a larger white
pique bow behind. Mrs. Laing-Hay, in
a Nile-green suit, was with Mrs. Bob
Scott, whose floral taffeta tunic walked
out in company with a black skirt.
Alison Davidson’s black tunic was the
complement of a black-and-white plaid
skirt. Biddy Howatt chose the trim look
of a grey suit, and Mrs. T. B. Guest
wore a black goblin cap with her olive-
green suit. Mrs. Norman Glover’s dress
ran to black and shades of lime-green.
Country visitor Margot Ardlie was in
navy with a dash of white around the
throat. Colonel and Mrs. Harold Cohen
were there. Neither of them had more
than small bets each way on their winner,
Northwind.
The Naval and Military Club opened
doors to feminine guests on the late
afternoon of the Caulfield Cup. Only on
one other occasion, five years ago, when
the Countess of Harrowby arrived with a
gift for the club of a photograph of Lady
Novar, has a woman been escorted
across the threshold.
Saturday’s party was an enormous suc-
cess —a tremendous crowd upstairs and
down and firm persuasion necessary to
get rid of everybody after the band
played the Anthem at 7.30. General
Johnston was prominent as president, and
General Blarney was in fine fettle. John
Wallace (of Deniliquin), Captain C. G.
Matthew's (who made the first attempt to
fly from England to Australia after the
war) and H. T. Coldham, who grows
copra in New Guinea were at the show.
The Charles Littlejohns, she in criss-cross
embossed black net; Colonel and Mrs.
Tom Slaney, Mrs. Slaney almost hidden
from view in her enormous black hat; the.
John Clarebroughs ; Dr. and Mrs. H. J.
Williams, she with a fascinating little fob
watch of diamonds pinned to the neck
of her white blouse; and Dr. Esme
Anderson were there. Congratulations
flowed over Dr. Sam Aitchison and' Phyl
Smith on their engagement of only a few
hours. Phyl is the elder daughter of the
late Brigadier-General Robert Smith and
of Mrs. Smith, of Geelong. She already
has a splendid start for her trousseau,
for her mother arrived back from a holi-
day in Hong Kong the day the engage-
ment was announced, and no mother can
resist giving heaps of silks and linens to
a very excited daughter.
The Spring Ball at the Palais happened
on a real spring night so pleasantly warm
that all feminine dancers discarded those,
little coats of matching or contrasting
material without which no evening gown
of this season considers itself complete.
Underneath the puffed-sleeved jackets
cut with either tunic basques or swing
backs there is a uniformity of corsage,
narrow shoulder straps, absence of
sleeves and decolletages plunging down-
wards at the back.
Prof, and Mrs. Lodewyckx were special
guests. Tickets for thirst-quenchers were
obtainable (according to announcement)
from “the lady in red,” affectionately
known to Y.A.L. enthusiasts as
“Qouchie” and to the rest of the world
as Mrs. Alfred Couchman. Jimmie Dale,
Bob Colclough, Eric Morris and George
Zimmerman were there, and Eric Mc-
Glinn tallied tickets and takings at the
door with the help of Nan O’Connor.
Members of a biggish party were the
Dan Reddans. Mrs. Reddan, who was in
Nile-green frills and flounces, is well
known to Y.A.L. lads, for she coaches
them in tap-dancing in preparation for
their country concert tours. At the same
table were the Stewart Hancocks, she
very slim in pink chiffon with a red
flower behind her ear and her hair curled
in one long, soft roll. Betty James wore
blue and an embroidered belt. Shirley
Marshall’s navy-blue net had puffed
sleeves and penny spots, and Geelong
committee member Joan Carr wore lame
striped horizontally in dragon-fly fashion.
Mrs. M. R. Barrett’s frock was of floral
crepe, Mrs. G. Lyell wore green, and
Nell Brennan’s shoulders twinkled with
a cape of silver beads and sequins. One
of the loveliest gowns which revolved
under the purple, green and gold ceiling
decorations was Nan Johnson’s mist-blue
lame, made with a clinging skirt and
draped corsage looped into a ring at the
apex of the deep V back.
Here is Mrs. C. E. Hughes, who with
her husband, Colonel Hughes, and her
mother, Mrs. A. W. Murdoch, has found
how busy a Melbourne racing season can
be for popular overseas visitors. Colonel
Hughes is a Tasmanian, and is familiar
with the attractions of the Australian
turf, but his wife and Mrs. Murdoch are
enjoying a completely new experience.
The trio come from Cairo, where they
have met and entertained many Austra-
lians on holiday or making the quick
overland trip between mailboat stops.
Broothorn made the photograph.
P.L.C. Old Collegians’ annual dinner
at the Wattle, arranged as it has been
on many past occasions by Miss Anne
Fortune, was a great success. There was
only one speech, given by the president,
Doris Moore. Sitting together were Mrs.
S Fairley and Mrs. Vance Palmer, Mrs.
Fairley having made sure of her old
friend’s presence at the party by going
down to the ship to book up the traveller
on her return from abroad. Among
others at the special table were Mrs. I.
H. Moss. At one of the many small tables
Mrs. S. A. Ewing and Dr. Constance
Ellis, Mrs. John Sutherland and Mrs. J.
A. Lang chatted across vases of daffodils.
Not far away were Mrs. Tom Purvis,
Mrs. F. Ragg and Mrs. W. Candy. An-
other quartet who had lots to talk about
from soup to savory were Bertha Braith-
waite, of golfing fame, and three medi-
coes, Jean Littlejohn, Alva Boyd and
Stella Braithwaite. Mrs. I. Hallo was
there with her cousin, Jean Myles, and
a noticeably elegant white-satin-clad
figure turned out to be Mrs. John Foster,
recently returned with her husband from
a trip abroad. Mrs. Gershon Bennett,
Mrs. Charles Dare and Mrs. Lex Ren-
toul discussed events of the past and
plans for the future across a low bowl
of gold tulips. All in blue, and receiv-
ing congratulations, was Rita Scheele,
now adjudged by Bench and Bar to be
the possessor of a fully-fledged legal
mind.
Herewith a Broothorn portrait of
Mollie Embling, who is to be the Hun-
garian maid Katherine in Ernest Vajda’s
“Fata Morgana,” which commences a
season on the 24th. This Hungarian play
is Brett Randall's third international pro-
duction within a few months; its fore-
runners were a look through a keyhole
of Soviet Russia, “Squaring the Circle,”
and the philosophy of old China trans-
lated into modern comedy in “Lady
Precious Stream.”
Miss Embling, only daughter of the
Austin Emblings, South Yarra, is follow-
ing in her mother’s footsteps by showing
an interest in politics. She was one of
the first members of the Melbourne
junior branch of the Australian Women’s
National League. She has experienced
the attractions of dramatic and radio
work, and is an excellent cook, having
followed up her schooldays at St. Cathe-
rine’s by acquiring a diploma from the
Emily McPherson College.
Neat fingers and admirable patience
have filled the Lower Town Hall with
handwork for the Arts and Crafts dis-
play. Among the hand-woven exhibits
are pieces of linen certain to delight the
senses of sight and touch of any house-
wife. Decorative among the woollen
weaves are sports belts with bags to
match. Pottery sections cater for interests
both in and out of doors, and the crisp
fresh tang of bushland clings to baskets
made from reeds and rushes. Toys are
enticing. Neither adult nor child can re-
sist a kookaburra called Peter, and there
is special appeal about the rabbits. A
sinuous tiger for the fee of only two or
three shillings will leave the crippled
Guides’ handcraft shop for a home else-
where. A change from the old plaster
models are fabric dolls (their outermost
layer of epidermis being of pale-pink
georgette) with really pretty painted laces
and fashionable clothes.
From Geelong Grammar Art School
and Geelong College come some good
exhibits of modelling, lino-cuts, photo-
graphy and leather work. In the carved
woods section there are bookrests and,
in preparation for next winter or per-
haps Melbourne’s summer, bellows and a
grate brush with its handle shaped to the
profile of an abo.’s head. Several of our
artists are represented in linos and wood-
cuts, some so reasonably priced that
Christmas wishes may be dispatched at
6d. each on a genuine postcard-size lino-
cut.
Never will Wirths’ Circus forget the
red-letter day of Philip Wirth’s birthday.
It put on the best party of its life, a
dinner which many of the guests present
voted was the finest they have ever eaten
and a supper after the circus performance
that was something right out of the box.
Unfortunately “old Philip’s” health was
not equal to the occasion, and the honors
were done by his son. The 87 men
guests, after being primed up with cock-
tails, were directed to the sawdust ring,
which, with its high iron bars, looked
like a silver aviary for giant birds. There
were many courses, and seven wine
glasses beside each place-card were filled
according to correct ritual.
Two lions, Prince and his wife, sat on
stools and were a very bored and sleepy
pair until half-way through the meal,
when things weren’t quite as quiet as
they had been at the beginning. The
lions were ordered off to bed, but Prince
suddenly showed interest in the party and
a determined aversion to leaving it. At
the conclusion of the evening show, at
which wives, sisters and other feminine
acquaintances of the 87 men were also
guests, everybody went into a big mar-
quee for supper, where champagne flowed
more generously than it has done at
any function for many a moon.
Between the golf—both courses were
crowded —and the dog show, Royal Mel-
bourne links seethed with activity in the
cause of the Children’s Hospital and the
S.P.C.C. Among golf competitors were
Shirley Tolhurst, with her hair looking
particularly lovely, who played with Kath
Rymill, Mrs. R. H. Gee and Mrs. M. M.
Jones, the pair successful in winning the
women’s foursomes, and Margaret Lewis
and Bill Bailey, who, with their net 66,
won the mixed event. Margaret’s father,
Benson Lewis, Royal Melbourne’s secre-
tary, seemed to be everywhere at once ;
at the clubhouse, among the raffles, on
the first tee, among the dogs and round
about the crazy putting, where one hole
was as large as a bucket and another a
shade bigger than a golf ball.
Ding-dong fights among the canines
were avoided by frantic pulling at leashes
by their owners. But far off on the
links there were echoes of the bedlam
oif deep-throated barks from the big
dogs and feverish yapping from the little
ones, who seemed to be more than
usually cross about the whole proceed-
ings. Sharing in the responsibilities of
judging were Captain Renwick (nephew
of the English dog expert, Sir John Ren-
wick) and Mrs. D. F. Whitwell, who
looked exceedingly attractive in her grey
sports suit and deep-violet blouse. Among
exhibitors were youthful lass Mervyn
Davis with her string of red setters, Miss
Bruce Reed attached to a grey wolf-
hound and Mrs. J. Brownell in a tartan
skirt to provide the right background for
her Aberdeen. Petite Margery Stephens
had a lot of strenuous exercise, being
pulled hither and thither by a large and
frisky red setter. A very smart pair were
Mrs. Geoff Grim wade, wearing a sporty
grey suit and a lemon-colored blouse,
who walked with her beautifully-groomed
Sealyham. Fashions change: only one
Irish terrier was exhibited. In other
small classes were a Labrador and two
English sheep-dogs.
The first night of “The Gipsy Princess”
had a friendly reception, for everybody,
whether he or she has had the winners
or not, wants to be gay on Caulfield Cup
Night. The weather, which had been so
amiable for the races, turned dog on
evening performances, and it was a
dampish crowd which huddled on foot-
paths and scurried for taxis round about
11. Among first-nighters were the Ray
Connollys, just returned from abroad.


Emlyn Williams himself in the part in
England recently, but Donelly’s render-
ing was in no sense an imitation.
Mrs. Gordon Blew and Miss Gate-
house won the women’s State golf cham-
pionship, after a hard fight with Betty
Sale and Enid Reid, beating them by
only two strokes.
Mrs. Warlow-Davis is home again
after a long sojourn in Europe- She
spent part of the time near her son in
Oxford (he was Tas. Rhodes scholar for
1932) and toured Germany, the Tyrol
and Italy.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILCOX.—If ALICE WILCOX, formerly
Adams, who resided in Melbourne or Barna-
wartha a number of years ago, will communi-
cate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COM-
PANY, of 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne, she
will hear something to her advantage.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
DENNING HOWARD, last heard of near
Adelaide in December, 1934, selling soap sticks
“On the Spot,” please communicate with
Advertiser, c/o The Bulletin Office, 252
George-street, Sydney.
JOSEPH AMBROSE PARKER, bom in
Sydney, resided in Adelaide 1900-1918, will
hear of something to his advantage by com-
municating with COLLINS & MULHOL-
LAND, Solicitors, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Next of Kin.
SOHIER.—The “next-of-kin of EDWIN
EUREKA SOHIER, late of .Sydney and for-
merly of Lithgow, who died in August, 1935,
aged about 80 years, or anyone knowing their
whereabouts, are requested to communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, stating details of their
relationship.
k
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade.
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
BRAN DAL ERA
m
PENS
tvery point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDACEB. * CO.. Ltd., BIRMINGHAM. IiNG
Half fheTrip is Dining
Enjoy Every Meal**'
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO HILDA EMILY PARRIS formerly of
Smithton in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of WILLIAM JOSEPH PARRIS of
Smithton in Tasmania praying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage. In default of your so appeal-
ing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid within
30 days after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the Registry ot
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
street Hobart.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
CRISP, EDWARDS & WILSON, Burnie,
Tasmania, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1037 of 1936.
BETWEEN LOUISA GUILBERT (formerly
Louisa Taylor) Petitioner
And HENRY VINING GUILBERT Re-
spondent. _ , ~
TO HENRY VINING GUILBERT late ot
Railway Heights Casino New South Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said LOUISA
GUILBERT has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying tor
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ol
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. _ .
DATED this Thirteenth day of October,
a.d. 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
COOK & SEDGWICK, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Casino, N.S.W.; by their Sydney
Agent, F. E. McELHONE, Solicitor, 3 Castlc-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1628 of 1936.
BETWEEN LORRIE SOLMAN Petitioner
And GEORGE ROBERT SOLMAN Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE ROBERT SOLMAN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LORRIE
SOLMAN has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ol
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-eighth day ol
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwitn-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. . . , , re,
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of Septem-
ber, a.d. 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON.
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
the National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
Stuart (trystal
The quality and brilliance of Stuart Crystal,
each piece the creation of master craftsmen,
is matched only by the finest diamonds.
English hand - made crystal. The name
Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
W
Sole Representatives
(wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.
317-23 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
m
as
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Freshwater Bay Yacht Club had a
capacity attendance at the inaugural
dance in its enviable new premises, the
lovely old house at Keane's Point. Fairy
lights were festooned from the groves
of trees in the extensive grounds, the
fleet rode at anchor in the curving bay
and from the windows in the ballroom
there were breath-taking views of the
river. Commodore G. H. Bacon held
command, with Mrs. Bacon’s violet
floral georgettes and a score or more
of honored guests on the bridge. A
diamond ensign glittered on Mrs. Lucius
Manning’s black chiffons, Molly Man-
ning hoisted a red spinnaker above her
creamy sunray-pleated georgettes and
Mrs. Neilson Hancock set sails of gold-
spotted cloque. Mrs. Felix Levinson
lashed brown furbishings to primrose
lace, Mrs. Hubert Parker’s rigging was
green changeant taffeta and Dorothy
Temperley glided in waves of pleated
white georgette.
After a long round of bride-elect par-
ties Mary Burt decked herself in snowy
raiment to meet Dick Brazier at St.
George’s Cathedral. Her soft shimmer-
ing satins, cowled at the neck and
caught to one side with a circlet of
pearls, swept under the swathed pearl-
studded belt into a long semicircular
train where ended her filmy Brussels
lace veil. ’Maids Lou Shenton, Ursula
Burt and Gwen Brazier were a pictur-
esque trio in lavender georgettes, long
and full, with pleat-edged fichus cross-
ing over to form sashlike drapes at the
back. Their tulle-brimmed pansy
crowns matched the flower-flecked tulle
streamers on their Victorian posies.
A “Tally Ho” from the Embassy
brought hundreds of Hunt Club fol-
lowers galloping along to share the fun
at the annual ball. Floral decorations
were culled from the bush, with ’roo
paws and smokebush taking pride of
place. Mrs. J. P. Durack mounted her
pink-and-black figured satins in the
presidential chair, Mrs. J. Stewart took
the field in black silk net over satin and
Mrs. D. Chipper harnessed white satin
with violet flowers. Margot Law had
trappings of lilac-pleated georgette, Mrs.
Menzies fixed a flame monkey strap on
turquoise-blue crepe roubaix and Sheila
Hayes was in turf-green georgette. Jack
Durack, George Gwynne, Roy Paxton,
Cleve Barnett and Stan O’Brien were
some of the pink-coated escorts.
Dr. John Day and Molly Taylor, of
Pingelly, were made one at Perth Col-
lege Chapel. The bride’s century-old
Brussels net veil was folded with tulle to
make a Neapolitan bonnet which
streamed out at the. back to the end of
her long train. The magnolia velvet
gown was swathed and draped into
classic lines flanked by full bishop
sleeves. Little Barrie Crommelin pre-
ceded the bride up the aisle, holding a
white satin cushion before his satin page
suit with its big black bow at the neck.
Mrs. Lyle Pym and Hazel Day fol-
lowed, their coral Medici tulle capes
swinging over tulle frocks on which bil-
lowed variegated frills. Sheafs of ger-
beras and blue delphiniums lent a color
note.
A fine crop of engagements came, to
light after the drought-breaking rains.
Beryl Birchely announced hers to Camp-
bell Wansborough, of Kalgoorlie, Oscar
Unmack came down from Mullewa to
give his ring to Lucy Rex, Henry Kel-
sall, of Moora, received the promise of
his bride-to-be in U.S.A. and Grace
Stapledon made a matrimonial date with
Lieut. A. R. Lawson, of the Australian
Staff Corps.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Lady Dugan opened the Prince Alfred
College Centenary Fete in aid of the col-
lege building and endowment fund. Stalls
were designed and built under the direc-
tion of H. H. Cowell. The Glenelg
committee was represented by “The Old
Gum-tree,” while the Port Adelaide stall,
“The Old Sea Dog,” was a realistic yacht-
ing scene. Lady Dugan was received by
headmaster J. R. Ward and Mrs. Ward,
L. S. Clarkson, president of the Prince
Alfred 0.C.A., and Mrs. Clarkson. They
accompanied Lady Dugan on a round of
ihe stalls, after which a display was given
by 200 boys in the gymnasium.
The Russian Ballet has caused great
excitement. The Government purchase
of 500 seats gave rise to many compli-
cations, as they had to be distributed
about the house, with the result that
some of those who by right of office
should be in a place of prominence, such
as the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress,
found themselves tucked away in corners.
Mr. Tait, who made a brief speech at
the conclusion of the show, said the
ballet’s commencement of its Australian
tour in Adelaide was due in the first
place to the patriotic spirit of two Adel-
aide ladies who had written to him offer-
ing to provide the guarantee afterwards
undertaken by the Government. Lady
Dugan and her sister-in-law, Mrs. Hasel-
den, were there with a large party, and
knights and their ladies were scattered
all about the house.
A cheery dance on cabaret lines was
held at Scotch College, arranged by the
combined Presbyterian Girls’ College and
Scotch Old Collegians’ Association. The
ballroom was decorated in Iceland pop-
pies and daffodils. Supper was served in
the large dining-room, the flowers being
mauve irises and pale-pink carnations.
The Junior Red Cross bridge party at
Birk’s Piccadilly was a huge affair, start-
ing in one large reception-room and over-
flowing into adjoining ones. Lady
Dugan, who is president of the Red Cross
Society, gave as a prize an exquisite
theatre bag of pink beads and' pearls.
Prizes were also given by the Bonython
lady, Mrs. S. L. Dawkins, Mrs. Truscott
and Mrs. Yeatman.
Of especial interest to Adelaide is the
engagement of Sydney architect Adrian
Ashton, son of artist Will Ashton, and
grandson of the late James Ashton, of
Adelaide, to Lesly, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. John Willis, of Mosman,
Sydney.
The Adelaide Music Salon put on a
centenary programme of South Aus-
tralian works at the Piccadilly, the com-
posers represented including Miriam
Hyde, Edith Piper, H. Brewster Jones,
Harold Perkins, T. D. Campbell, Spruhan
Kennedy and Arthur Williamson. Lady
Dugan, a slim figure in fine black lace,
wearing a cape made of two large silver
fox furs, was received by the salon’s
chief officers and their better-halves and
presented with a posy of carnations. Mrs.
E W. Holden chose a black silk net,
coin-spotted in black, with a marmot fur
cape. Mrs. John Close sported flame-
toned chiffon, and Mrs. Nutter Thomas
(wife of the Bishop) favored wine-toned
chiffon and a black satin coat.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark went north to open the
Launceston Show. Though the weather
was unfavorable the show was a record
success; women’s industries were well
represented, and ring events were
specially interesting. Among the women
riders, Barbara Bennett with her Alert
won a first prize, and Miss Bowman and
E. Gilbert won the hunters’ champion-
ship with their jointly-owned horse
Royal.
The Ross branch of the A.W.N.L. ran
a dance at Powell’s Hall. Mrs. D’Arcy
Seddon, president of the branch, was
also one of the. secs, and hostessed a
buffet supper beforehand. A big and
representative country muster enjoyed the
party, among them the two Mackinnon
girls, Elvina and Jeanette, with the last
word in Continental frockings. Decora-
tions were bright and springified, and the
evening was warm —a welcome change
after so many blizzards.
The Geoff Martins (Launceston) are
going rustic, and leaving the northern
capital to make their home at George-
town. Mrs. Martin found herself un-
able to cope with all the parties given in
her honor, so Beryl Bennett conceived
the idea of running two or three of them
into one, and the Launceston bridge
rooms (which Mrs. Martin has been run-
ning for some time) were utilised for a
big affair with a number of hostesses,
both afternoon and evening of one day.
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Pearson are off
to Maoriland for five weeks. Before
leaving they served cocktails to a siz-
able party in their own house, where
forsythia in great sprays, Chinese mag-
nolias and camellias were arranged with
good effect.
The Harley Wordsworths had send-
offs of ail sorts before leaving for their
home in Lahore. Mrs. Ross Reynolds
had a morning-tea party and a late-
afternoon cocktail party on the same
day. The H. S. Barnetts were among
those who gave dinner parties, the Fred
Grants’ cocktail party at Hadley’s was
a crowded affair, and there were many
bridge gatherings.
Mrs. Goddard’s production of ‘“Night
Must Fall,” done by the Hobart Reper-
tory Society, succeeded in making flesh
creep. Everybody knows this super-
thriller by now, but it doesn’t follow
that everybody' can get Emlyn Williams’s
morbid psychological study of the mur-
derer across. Linns Donelly managed it,
however, and he and Mrs. Booth, as his
victim, put up outstanding performances.
Junee Cornell was excellent as the
psychic niece, and the minor characters
held their own well. Mrs. Goddard saw


EEDOL
Is.
f<Mi
JP' ;:■•s—
• / tf-NV 1 £T
fcM "
Friend
on d „
Hal- Day.
• •
a* •
rvrtVXr
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED MLSIMtS
MOTOR OIL
4 T normal speeds and temperatures, you will
experience little motor oil trouble But —-
when your speedometer and Mr. Mercury both
start hitting the high spots, make sure INDE-
STRUCTIBLE VEEDOL is on the job.
VEEDOL’S Famous “Film of Protection” cools
the heat and speed that causes most motor oils
to break down and burn up.. Change to VEEDOL
the warm weather friend of millions of motor-
ists. Sold the world over at no extra cost. Yov
can’t break it down.”
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Allabout”: The round-Australia
motor contest executive, which sits in
Sydney, has developed a thoroughly
northern flavor. At the last meeting it
adopted a route which includes Towns-
ville—probably as the only official start-
ing town outside the capitals. The man
who moved the resolution was a north-
erner. The seconder was a northerner.
The voices of Lorenzo, late State Com-
mandant in Queensland, and other
Bananalanders were raised in support.
Northerners, in fact, could find a majority
at most meetings. Colonel Barney Somer-
ville, secretary of the N. S. Wales Royal
Agricultural Society, an old Brisbane
Grammar School boy, and Conacher, of
Vesteys, are among them. And William
Hatfield, author of Sheepmates, has just
been appointed as honorary publicity
agent in London, whither he goes at the
end of the month. The race will defi-
nitely touch-Townsville and Wyndham.
* * * *.
"Roma Street”: King George is to
have a surprisingly original monument
in Brisbane. His Majesty is to be repre-
sented in uniform on a horse. There
will be some lions and lamps and other
articles scattered around the angular
foothills of it. Most ironic will be its
situation. It is to stand in front of the
Town Hall on the favorite site of Com-
munist orators of a few years ago. No
noisier comminations have been uttered
against kingship anywhere in Australia
than on that spot.
* * * *
“Enkewer”: “Laetitia,” by telling us
that coral lime as a building material is
well known and exploited by the Torres
Strait Binghi (B. 19/8/’36), recalls the
unique Magnetic Island (Townsville)
home, built entirely of coral, which
housed the remarkable Butler family,
whose spartan-like existence is one of
the idylls of early North Queensland
history. They settled at Picnic Bay
about 60 years ago, when Mag-
netic Island—which to-day is one of
the State’s most attractive tourist re-
sorts —had for its only inhabitants a
tribe of blacks. The Butlers ran their
affairs on communal lines, with each
member—boy or girl, youngest or eldest
—doing something to assist. Sustenance
was obtained from fishing and shooting,
while, in their small open boat, they
freighted to town large quantities of
coral lime. From the reef they prepared
also the material for their home in large,
heavy slabs, roughly hewn. Later they
built huts at the bay, where the sur-
vivors of the family still have large in-
terests. That their life proved healthy is
shown by the fact that Butler, senior,
lived beyond his 80 years, and a brother,
who spent most of his life with the family,
still lives to superintend his land invest-
ments at Tully (N.Q.).
* * * *
“Passage Pilot”: Those tourists who
do the Whitsunday Passage in a week,
saying there is nothing more to see, give,
me an abdominal ache. In that time
they touch only the outside fringe of
things. If they stay longer they begin
to sound the depths of their own ignor-
ance and learn that 10 years would not
be too long to see all there is to see.
One fellow, in his own boat, and with
an outboard dinghy, recently spent an
afternoon in Schute Harbor. He motored
the whole time, and where there was not
water for his launch he took his dinghy.
Next day I met him. “You’ve finished
Schute?” I asked him. “Seen every-
thing? I only just started to get an out-
line of thipgs. Given a month like that
I would begin to know it.” Yet the
average tourist dips into Schute, has a
five-minute look-see. yawns in his/her
boredom and wants to know what else is
on tap.
* * * *
“Arunta”: Canberra has once more
invented an entirely new native policy.
It looks remarkably like a lot of very
old policies. The blacks are to be
divided into detribalised types who live
in the purlieus of Darwin and other
towns, tribes around stations and myalls.
Detribalised sections are to be educated
“in various avenues of employment.” The
ones to which they are most suited are
chewing baccy and watching fan-tan
games. But they are to be “equipped
to take their places in white communi-
ties, with proper realisation of their obli-
gations, the value of time and money
and the significance of a contract.” This
is a little bit like teaching a cat to be
a rabbit. They are also to learn
hygiene. Semi-tribals will have reserves
and be allowed to live according to native
customs. And, for the present, myall
blacks will continue to “live in inviolable
reserves.” No prize is offered for find-
ing any of the inviolable reserves they
live in. There aren’t any.
“Zedo”: The Coronation year seems
likely to be good for tree-planting in
Australia. Melbourne has an ambitious
scheme, and Brisbane is considering fol-
lowing suit. There was a time when
“ E left th' homestead two days ago t' trap rabbits .”
trees were anathema to Brisbane aider-
men —those were the days when face
fungus was the most popular municipal
vegetation—but in the last two years
9400 trees have been rooted in Brisbane
streets. It is a pity that somebody is not
inspired with arboreal fervor in the
western towns where the streets of dreary
iron shimmer in the inland sun and
where there seems always to be a deeply-
embedded conviction that the only plant
bigger than a Bathurst burr which will
grow locally is the pepper tree.
“Good Pfeller Tucker”: A. M. Blain’s
forthcoming dinner of northern viands
to Canberra Ministers should put the
chefs of Canberra properly on their
mettle. The material of the feast is to
be packed in dry ice, brought by air and
fed to the hungry in a bower of poin-
cianas. There will be Baino oysters,
buffalo tongues. Brunette bullock,
Chinese yams. There will also be turtle
eggs and crocodile eggs, but the latter are
only decorations. And possibly there
will be northern caviare. Suggestions to
include Humtydoo whitebait (white-ants),
grubs and pituri have been barred by the
director. And Boorooloola rum is out.
Even dry ice won't freeze that.
s *' : i : H* : i ;
“X.T.”: One of the few surviving
Brisbane buildings which date back to
the State's foundation year is going-
-201-03 Queen-street, where a 76-year-old
store is to make way for a modern
arcade. Still it isn’t the oldest by a long
chalk. The Government stores on the
river bank are over a century old, and
the windmill on Gregory-terrace is about
to reach its hundredth birthday.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Tricolors, chatter and music were out-
standing at the soiree which brought the
Alliance Fran?aise together. Lena Ham-
mond sang French songs, and was con-
gratulated by President Schindler on the
purity of her accent, and Kathleen Camp-
bell Brown made a capital speech.
Blue-eyed Eve Henry chose an un-
usual wedding gown for her marriage to
Reginald Barrington Chalmers —an Eliza-
bethan frock of blue satin and a veil of
mist-blue tulle caught to a halo of
flowers. Her bouquet was of del-
phiniums. A. R. Henry gave his daugh-
ter away, and Maxine Middleton, in gold
draperies, was bridesmaid.
The president and members of the
Commercial Travellers' Association chose
Ferny Grove Creek for the setting for
their children’s picnic. There were games
and sports and a whole wagonful of
ice-cream. Every child received a toy,
and comic papers were scattered like
autumn-leaves in Vallambrosa.
Marjorie Wilson went to see the
Guineas run, the last occasion on which
she will attend the Ascot races before
leaving for Kenya and England. The
first party at Government House since
the death of King George was the dinner
dance given as a farewell party to our
Governor’s daughter.
The committee of St. Vincent de Paul
appeal fund, which has gathered many
shekels in the past few months, is hold-
ing a Melbourne Cup afternoon at the
Belle Vue on Cup Day. Bridge, com-
petitions, afternoon-tea and a broadcast.
The Governor opened the forty-eighth
annual exhibition of the Royal Queens-
land Art Society, and urged the public
to lend a helping hand so that the jubi-
lee in 1938 might be a record. His Ex.
has done a lot to help art and artists,
thereby following in the footsteps of
Matthew Nathan, a great buyer of Aus-
tralian pictures.
Freda Thompson is to fly to Brisbane
and spend a few days here before start-
ing her competitive flight to Adelaide in
the centenary air race. Jean Inglis will
be her flying partner, and as Freda is the
only flying instructress in the British
Empire, and has flown solo from London
to Australia, there is a good chance of
her snatching the prize.
A few weeks ago a small band of
women arranged a two-day fete at Yarra-
brae, the old home of the Isaiah Laheys,
now converted into St. Claire’s Home of
Rest for the Aged, to assist the build-
ing fund. The result probably is a record
in charitable efforts in Australia. The
expenses were under £2 —£1 19s. 3d., to
be exact —and the cheque handed over
to Miss Benjamin, the hon. sec., was for
£223 11s. 6d.
Matron F. M. Hart, leaving Rose-
mount Repat. Hospital after 10 years of
faithful and capable work, has been
widely farewelled. Dr. and Mrs. S. F.
McDonald started the business, and the
nurses at Rosemount and various other
friends have kept it up.
Over £l3O was raised at the annual
garden party for the Presbyterian Chil-
dren’s Homes, held in Mrs. Harry
Clarke’s lovely garden at Cavendish-road,
with a huge old jacaranda dripping
flowers all over the lawns and the tables
set in bowers of greenery for the tea-
drinkers. Lady Wilson opened the show,
and the tiniest girl in the home, Betty
Winfield, handed her a tight Victorian
posy of all-English flowers—forget-me-
nots and mignonette, English daisies and
primroses.
The T. A. Armstrongs, mar-
ried on October 5, had a piece
of bad luck. Leaving the
church after the knot had been
tied, they had a motor accident,
and the bride was bustled into
St. Martin’s Hospital—where
she did her train'ng as a nurse
—and remained there for a
week before, she could be de-
clared fit enough to travel.
Joan Perry’s wedding to
Henry White, of Tabragalba, is
set for Nov. 10, and there are lot's of
parties arranged for the bride-elect be-
tween now and then. At the moment
Joan and her mother, Mrs. Arthur Perry,
are holidaying at Southport.
Mrs. Ryton Kelly and Grace are busily
packing to leave for Ballarat, where Dr.
Kelly already is established, and where
they in future will make their home. Her
friends joined forces, and gave her a
farewell aboard the Blue Bird, the Alf
Huyberses’ yacht. Mrs. Huybers and
Mollie Sutherland organised the party.
Grace’s friends gave an equestrienne *
party and a campfire picnic for her before
she said good-bye.
The first birthday party of the Mackay
Association in Brisbane —a basket picnic
at the Botanical Gardens —was a huge
success. The Premier and Mrs. Forgan
Smith were guests of honor. The presi-
dent, Mrs. P. H. Staines, looked very
smart' in her white topi with an orange-
and-green pugaree. Mrs. T. Griffith
made the birthday cake, on which one
lone candle flamed jauntily.


THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” AM-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on tlie broadcast band.)
Send jor Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Kuyten Car and L<auneh Radio,
.Milliard Radio Valves.
1936 A.V.C.
PEXTA6 RID SIX.
£9/7/ 6.
‘o>y
\j
\
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
(Wp
w,
A
* o
i
( S ' ••'. f
V AMPH
i- ,z
? '.?4W <*
f* '• ■'4\
w m '*
/ ;
“PALEC”VALVE TESTER
A.C. PORTABLE TYPE:
Tests all standard valves, English and
Oetode types. Subjects each element ot A
HOT valve to a micro leak
test. Portable type, £ll/10/-
as illustrated
Counter type
£l3/10/-
d.c. bXttery model
Tests all D.C. Valves, requiring only to be
connected to a 6-volt accumulator. Has
element, short test. Three ranges of volts,
0-3.5, 7 and 70 volts, for battery check-
ing; also external resistance range, 0-
350,000 ohms. £l2/10/-
Complete with lid
All Prices Subject to Tax.
Write for descriptive catalogue.
Available at leading wholesalers,
Paton Electrical Instrument C°->
SO Victoria Street, Ashneld-
RADIO NEWS
TELEVISION IN BRITAIN.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The new London television station
has started experimental transmissions.
Programmes were broadcast from Alex-
andra Palace, and picked up on re-
ceivers at the Radio Exhibition at Olym-
pia, arousing keen interest among thou-
sands of British and foreign visitors.
London newspaper correspondents were
conducted on a tour of the station.
From a hill 306 ft. above sea level the
8.8.C.’s television station dominates
London. It is built into a corner of
Alexandra Palace, a North London land-
mark and pleasure resort for more than
Marconi television receiver for the
Alexandra Palace transmissions. This
receiver handles ultra-short-wave sound
and vision, also all normal and short-
wave broadcasting.
60 years, and from the large bay windows
of the upper offices below the aerial
nearly all London can be taken in at a
glance. The importance of height in
this connection can hardly be over-
emphasised, for under normal conditions
the range of the ultra-short waves used
for television is extended as the height
of the transmitting aerial is increased.
Surmounting a tower itself 80ft. high
is the tapering lattice mast, rising to a
height of 220 ft. Thus the aerial array
for vision transmissions, which is
mounted at the summit of the mast, is
more than 600 ft. above sea level. Im-
mediately below the vision aerial is the
aerial for the accompanying sound
transmissions.
Three Transmitters.
Provision has been made for alter-
nate experimental transmission by the
systems developed by Baird and Mar-
coni respectively. Each co. has provided
a complete television system, including
vision and sound pickup apparatus and
the television transmitter itself. The
8.8. C. has been responsible for the sound
transmitter and associated aerial. The
equipment comprises a television studio
for each system, with associated con-
trol-room and ultra-short wave television
transmitter; and, in addition, an ultra-
short-wave sound transmitter common
to both systems.
To these bare necessities, however,
much has been added to provide for the
comfort of artists in the shape of dress-
ing-rooms and a restaurant, for staff ac-
commodation, for the viewing and edit-
ing of films in a miniature cinema, for
the storing of properties and scenery, and
for many other adjuncts necessary to a
smooth-working programme service.
Transmitter Floor.
The entrance hall is at the base of
the tower. To the right is the recep-
tionist’s desk, while immediately taping
the visitor is the main door to the stair-
way leading to offices and studios. On
the left is the entrance to the ground-
floor corridor, which houses the three
transmitters, projection theatre, restau-
rant and scenery productions shop. Near-
est to the entrance hall is the Marconi-
E.M.I. television transmitter, which, like
the Baird equivalent, operates on a fre-
quency of 45 megacycles per second
(wave-length, 6.67 metres). All the
apparatus at the station is finished in
grey cellulose and chromium.
Next is the sound transmitter hall, ac-
commodating an ultra-short wave instal-
lation of orthodox design for radiating
speech and music accompanying the
vision signals of both systems. Operat-
ing frequency is 41.5 megacycles per
second (wave-length, 7.23 metres).
Between the sound transmitter and the
Baird plant is a projection theatre, in
which film excerpts can be selected and
timed for inclusion in the transmissions.
The Baird transmitter hall, with control
panel and array of generators and ampli-
fication stages, is at the south-west end
of the corridor. Beyond this, at the
south-west extremity of the 8.8. C. sec-
tion of the Palace, is a large area in-
tended either for scenery construction or
for televising such objects as motor-cars
and animals which cannot be brought
into the studio or televised outside. Lor-
ries can drive straight in. A large open-
ing in the roof enables it to be lighted
and, if necessary, televised from above.
Lifting tackle can take up scenery and
properties weighing a ton through a
trap-door in the roof to the second dock,
25ft. above.
Outdoor Television.
A feature at this point is the ramp or
sloping runway down which the tele-
vision camera can travel to a concrete
“apron,” approximately 1700 sq. ft., on
the terrace outside, forming a platform
for televising open-air performances or
special experimental programmes.
Studio Design and Furnishing.
Leaving the tower on this floor we
enter the Marconi-E.M.I. studio. Measur-
ing approximately 70ft. by 30ft., with a
height of 25ft., this studio is divided
into two stages—A and B —of which A,
the larger, gives an acting area of
approximately 24ft. square. It is
equipped with two sets of tableau cur-
tains. Lining the studio on two sides
are hanging velvet curtains running on
two tracks, the front curtain being black
and the back one white to allow for
interchange of backgrounds. Each stage
has separate lighting, controlled from a
central switchboard. Emitron instan-
taneous television cameras are used.
High up in the west wall a large plate-
glass window indicates the position of
the control-room, where the producer
and the engineering assistants operate.
The floor is covered with thick black
linoleum and the walls are acoustically
treated with an asbestos compound.
Leaving the Marconi-E.M.I. territory,
the Baird tele-cine room comes next. It
also is fitted with two projectors and
the necessary equipment for film trans-
missions. Next to this room is an addi-
tional small studio to be used with the
Baird Company’s spotlight system of
direct television of three-quarter-length
portraits such as would be required for
announcements and talks.
The main Baird studio is the same
size as its Marconi-E.M.I. counterpart.
The floors and walls are of similar con-
struction, but the arrangement of the
stages is different. The larger stage is
placed diagonally to the intermediate
film camera room, which is situated in
the centre of the studio and looks rather
like the bay window of a modern villa
viewed from without. The curtains are
the same as in the Marconi-E.M.I. studio,
but the hanging arrangements differ in
that they have to suit' the different posi-
tion of the two stages.
{Courtesy 8.8. C.)
Catering for the Experimenter.
Illustrated here is a beautiful type of
receiver made overseas expressly for
experimental use, the RME Single Signal
Superhet. In addition to having all
the essential features for amateur re-
quirements, it is excellent for any-
body interested in short-wave recep-
tion in general.
The type shown is
for relay rack
mounting, as used
in commercial sta-
tions, and is made
in a special satin-
finished a 1 u-
minium. It is also
provided with a
dust shield and
cover. The. meter
above the tuning
dials is calibrated
in R strengths, and
the dial on the left
is the main tuning,
with bandspread
on the right.
It may be argued
that the manufac-
ture of such appa-
ratus in Australia
is financially im-
practicable, but a
boom in amateur
radio is imminent,
for increasing numbers of short-wave
broadcast listeners are swotting for
amateur tickets. A manufacturer with
courage and foresight to consider the
needs of amateurs could make it prac-
ticable.
Biasing the Output Stage.
Illustrated is a diagram of an idea
developed in England for more effective
control of the bass notes in an audio
amplifier system. The originator con-
siders that automatic bias is impractic-
able in valves of the 25-watt class if
attenuation at low frequencies is to be
avoided. As it is necessary to use very
large capacity condensers, and the cost
of paper condensers of 50mfd. or
lOOmfd. is prohibitive, the initial leak-
age that makes electrolytic types so use-
ful in restriction of no-load voltage
surges acts as a temporary short-circuit
of the bias resistance when potentials
are first applied. Thus the life of the
output valve is endangered. The sug-
Scheme for improving auto-bias in
audio stages.
gestion is to use a 35-henry iron-cored
choke of approximately 850 ohms resis-
tance in the cathode circuit of the first
audio valve, following a diode detector,
shunted by the usual 50mfd. electrolytic
condenser. This produces a rising
characteristic at the lower end of the
audio range, and the effect on quality is
generally beneficial. By connecting an-
other smaller capacity condenser in
series with the electrolytic through a
variable resistance it is possible to con-
trol the bass. Values of Cl and R may
be 4mfd. and 250,000 ohms respectively.
Radio Comment.
“Brassex”: Proof of the DX lure of
the newer type of VK amateur is in-
stanced in a case quoted from N.Q. A
northerner with a good transmitter and
A.C. power got tired of calling CQ one
night, and wondered if the rig was off
its stride. After a 15 minutes’ spell he
called CQ again, using a dummy Pacific
Islands callsign, and all Australia came
back with a rush. Needless to say, he
didn’t contact anybody, and shut down
in disgust. There was nothing wrong
with the transmitter.
#** ■ #
“Brasso”: South Africa is keeping an
eye on television, and the Johannesbuig
Empire Exhibition will include actual
demonstrations, a private order having
been placed in England for the supph
of a transmitter and five receivers. In


“THE HOME WORKSHOP”
incorporating "Radio News”
Commencing with the next issue,
this section of The Bulletin will
be under the above heading. A
wide variety of subjects will be
covered, and contributions are in-
vited from readers interested in
hobbies and craftsmanship of all
kinds. Ideas submitted must be
original and clearly defined.
VK2NO.
&
ADIOTRON
&
m
ĸ
The Importance of Good Valves
The most vital part of a broadcast receiver is its valve equipment. No Radio
can give good performance without good valves. Radiotrons conform to
the world's highest standards in design, material, construction and perform-
ance. See that your set is equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
RADIOTROHS
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
EIcCiRIC limited
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
V 16.6
fAdvertisement of Amalgamated Wir
eless Valve Company Ltd.l
addition to a demonstration of modern
television broadcasts visitors to the show
will be able to have their faces televised
and viewed in another part of the exhibi-
lion by their friends. A standard of
90 lines will be used, the picture size
being Sin, by 7in.
* * * *
“VK2XL”: Mention in The Bulletin
of old QSL cards set me hunting up
my stock. Many came to light, notably
those from QSOs with old-timers in
England 12 years ago. Some from
G2NM (he didn’t sport printed cards
then), G2WT, G2SZ, G2OD, GSYK.
G2VO (who died a few weeks ago) and
GSUS (who is still going strong), I
resurrected old limes in a 20-mefre chat
with him recently. Remarkable how
enthusiasm keeps up in amateur radio.
After 10 years I returned to the work,
and have been keeping almost daily
schedules with G.B. with only a few
watts from a generator and batteries.
AMATEUR-RADIO CHATTER.
Hve-metre activity should reach a high
level (his summer. During a recent week-
end VK2IV, a member of Manly
(N.S.W.) club, took a Jones Resistance
Super to Blackheath. in the Blue Moun-
tains, and submits the following log:
CAMP AT BLACKHEATH, N.S.W., 4/10/’36.
VK21V Station Log for 56mc.
4 Lime. Call. QSA. R. Remarks.
4/10/ 36 5.35 p.m. VK2HL 5 8 Music and testing.
4/10/’36 5.40 p.m. VK.2HL 5 8 Calling CQ.
j/|0/’36 5.42 p.m. VK2HL 5 8 Calling VK2BJ. Did not hear 2BJ.
4/10/ 36 7.30 p.m. VK.2WJ 5 6 Calling CQ on I.C.W.
4/10/’36 7.40 p.m. VK2WJ 5 6 I.C.W.
7.45 p.m. VK2WJ 5 6/7 On ’phone, strong and clear.
4/10/ 36 8 p.m. VK2WJ 5 6 Working VK2ZN.
4/10/ 36 8.7 p.m. VK.2WJ 5 7 Working VK2ZN.
4/10//36 8.50 p.m. VK2HL 5 7 On ’phone, calling CQ.
4/10/ 36 8.55 p.m. VK2HL 5 7 Working VK2BJ.
V,\°J2 6 8 ‘ 57 P- ni - VK2HL 5 7 Signed off with VK2BJ. Called CQ.
4/10/ 36 9.14 p.m. VK2WJ 5 M On ’phone and I.C.W. He called
VK2IV and thanked us for the report
on signals. This report was sent by
telephone via VK2NO.
4/10/ 36 9.10 p.m. Station near top of band; unable to identify.
4/10/’36 9.45 p.m. Same station heard again R3.
4/10/’36 9.50 p.m. Another unidentified station heard.
Aerial was a 50ft. vertical single wire. All receiving done on headphones.
Reg Tibbetts, of W6ITH, whose
amateur station was described B. 6/5/’36,
says he has received many requests from
Australian short-wave listeners for copies
WriierLf fA* Amatem . #
obtainable in Australia. That is not so.
W6ITH said that he had received copies
ol The Bulletin containing a descrip-
tion of his station from all parts of Aus-
tralasia, but it was hardly fair for SWLs
to expect a copy of a 7s. 6d. publication
in exchange or for the mere asking.
' ‘ ' ‘ • •
The first portion of the new five-metre
transmitter for the writer’s station has
been complete!. Using only two valves,
it gives considerable R.F. output at 56mc.
Fhe oscillator is a 6L6, used in the
familiar e-c arrangement, with the grid
circuit at 10 metres and the plate at five,
Ongmally another 6L6 was used as a
buffer, but this was found to be erratic
and troublesome to neutralise. An R.F.
pentode of the 802 type was next tried
(actually an RK2S), and at once ali
trouble disappeared. In fact, the opera-
tion is just as easy as on lower frequen-
~°vo,ls r lhe T es f
( ] LG and 802 ’ ™°{ e tha ” s u ufficient R.F.
dr ' ve IS available for a high-power final,
. s a push-pull stage, using two
E,mac 35Ts. This five-metre exciter
itself comprises a very useful transmitter,
as l hc 802 (or RK2S) can be suppressor-
modulated. A 6P6 can be used nicely
in this position also with slightly less
output. Conclusion drawn from the tests
of this exciter is that the 6L6 is about
the finest oscillator for high frequencies
(excluding special valves) yet made avail-
able to the amateur. In a week or two
the writer’s station should be in lull
operation on five, with modern equip-
ment throughout,
VK2NO
Amended Amateur Regulations.
In view of the criticism of the new
radio amateur regulations voiced over
the air by a few transmitters, the follow-
ing Parliamentary notes are of interest. In
the Federal House, W. M. Nairn (Perth)
asked whether the circular dated July 1,
1936, and other like circulars signed by the
Chief Wireless Inspector and addressed
to licensed experimenters were isstied
with the authority of the Postmaster-
General. He also asked whether pro-
tests against these circulars had been re-
ceived from experimenters, and what
rights would remain to licensed experi-
menters if the instructions in the circu-
lar were enforced. Mr. Parkhill replied
that a few protests had been received, but
the new conditions met with the general
approval of experimenters. They were
drawn up in consultation with execu-
tives of the Wireless Institute of Aus-
tralia, which was a Commonwealth-wide
organisation of experimenters. The re-
vised conditions would facilitate both re-
search and instruction.
The few protests reaching the Chief
Wireless Inspector appear to be inspired
by the paragraph in the amendments
limiting ’phone sessions to 30 minutes.
This is a reasonable ruling, and gives
other experimenters a chance to use
what might otherwise be a very con-
gested channel. This clause is intended
to prevent unreasonable use of the band
or bands, and is no restriction at all to
the serious experimenter.
D.B.K.
What’s What in Radio.
Bakelite, the insulating material used
so much in connection with radio, has
been put to use in countless ways. The
latest is machinery bearings, for which
it i§ employed in place of white metal
or bronze, even under such heavy loads
as arc met with in steel roni ;1|
D i r. . • . . , .
Bakellte hearlngs h a ve been found to
reduce P ower co nsumption by 30 p.c.,
and t 0 havc a . workin g many times
mM ol metal-lined bearings,
* * * *
A 40,000 kw. alternator designed in
U.S.A. is cooled by hydrogen gas instead
of air. Hydrogen reduces windage losses
by 10 p.c. and has better heat conduc-
livity, removing more heat from a given
surface for the same temperature drop.
RADIO TRADE SPOTLIGHT.
Just introduced to Australia is the
"acoustical labyrinth," the latest creation
of the new Stromberg-Carlson factory. A
demonstration witnessed by radio experts
Fig. 1. —Diagram showing that cabinet cavity resonance
distortions are present in a standard radio console when
located against a room wall or away from the wall, the best
location for minimum distortion being a separation of at least
four inches from the wall.
was convincing of its effectiveness. Two
receivers were shown, identical in the
matter of audio channels, one with and
one without the labyrinth. In turn they
were tuned to the
same station, and
the difference in
favor of the one
fitted with the
labyrinth was little
short of amazing.
The effect is liter-
ally that of bring-
ing the sounds out
of the studio, and
giving a well-nigh
perfect simulation
of the original.
The lab y r i nth,
which was de-
veloped by the
Stromberg Co. of
U.S.A., i s a
method of feed-
ing the loudspeaker
sound into a tuned
Fig. 2. —Diagram showing clear-cut (natural ) reproduction of
a loudspeaker cone in the Stromberg-Carlson Model 837
receiver. Persistence of motion of the cone is overcome by
means of the acoustical labyrinth system and by the special
electrical design of the speaker.
pipe lined with absorbent material.
Cavity resonance is eliminated, and the
inherent boominess that infests any
cabinet, however well-made, disappears.
Reproduction of both high and low
portions of the audible spectrum is
vastly improved, giving “extended
range." The illustrations show the
application.
* * * *
The October issue of "Radio” (U.S.A.)
has a host of new
ideas and distinc-
ti v e articles.
W6BAY describes
his “Two-in-One”
transmitter, which
employs the Jones
1936 exciter prin-
ciple, with four
53’s series links
and appreciable
output at five
metres if desired.
Many experi-
menters would like
to use commercial
dual or all-wave
receivers for
amateur work.
Bob Kruse shows his “re-vamped” ex-
ample. Other features are “High Fre-
quency Radio Therapy Equipment,"
“Three-tube. All-band KW. Transmitter,”
“Audio Selectivity with the ‘Selecto-
sphere,’ ” “Magnetions for U-H-Fs,” “Pre-
selection from a Rebuilt S.W. Converter.”
“Eighty-metre Transreceiver,” “Battery-
operated Emergency Portable,” “General
Purpose 50-watt Transmitter” and “Ten-
meter Exciter or Transmitter.”
Improving Insulators.
Apart from the protective quality of
the glazed finish on porcelain insulators,
the surface is useful in wet weather be-
cause rain will readily run off. The cheap
grade of egg insulator is by no means
perfect in this respect, and after exposure
to the weather for some time collects a
film of water which causes heavy leak-
age during rain. This can be prevented
by coating such insulators thinly with
vaseline before erecting, and repeating
the treatment at intervals of a few
months.
Radio Question Box.
Name of Sydney agent for Penlagrid wireless
sets '/ —486.
Not known. Write to one of the newspapers
in which these receivers were described.
* * * *
/ have? a set of American two-volt valves,
types IC6, 185 and ID4, and wish to make
a five-valve receiver for country use. Do you
know of a kit-set using this series of valves ?
—487.
Try Radjokes, Ltd., R.C.S. Radio or Crown
Radio, of Sydney. These firms issue detailed
diagram and instruction prints on many types
of kit-sets, and one of them may have a kit
using these valve types.
* * * *
(1) Are the Sirufer cores mentioned in It.
23/9/’36 the ordinary metal-dust type coil
formers as used by certain coil manufacturers,
or are they an entirely new development ? (2)
I have a six-volt accumulator that I charge
with a home plant. Recently J noticed that
when the accumulator is standing idle it is
possible to hear sounds inside as if it is slowly
bubbling. One cell of the battery does not hold
charge well. Would this be the cause ? —485.
(1) They are a new development. (2) No.
The bubbling sounds, even after charging has
taken place some time previously, are due to
the generation of gas in the cells. Gas bubbles
are gradually liberated from the acid solution.


iONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORTWORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation—for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that - of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up - by
the small high-
pressure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
MSgSSSg
60'-
less Gauge
5/- extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ with a
renrut
aUADFLU PL€
HAND PUMP
Faotorv Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
England.
••SH.VER
EDGE**
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS."
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O, Box 71, MELBOURNE, V- C.
The Steering Column.
NEW 25-H.P. SUPER SIX WOLSELEY
SECURES HONORS ON TEST.
LIVELY ROAD PERFORMANCE, EXCELLENT
ROADHOLDING AND ECONOMY IN FUEL.
BY FRED BERRY.
AUSTRALIAN motorists have been awaiting cars of wholly
British origin in which performance, freedom from service
worries and price are comparable with those of American types.
But while small-engined sports cars of British make have been
able to attain pride of place in Australian estimation, until
recently, the full-sized sedan—the most popular type of vehicle
—has been behind American types in road performance, or,
where road performance was satisfactory, more costly.
The new 25-h.p. Wolseley, however, makes the position
definitely more hopeful. Tested over the “Bulletin” course, this
splendid engineering achievement delivered the goods in no
uncertain fashion. Road performance is brilliant and on a par
with highest American standards, and the manner in which the
car hangs to the road when driven at speed on corners is
excellent.
Chassis is of robust construction, en-
suring comfortable riding qualities. De-
spite the heavy gross weight, the car gives
a lively and instant response to the
slightest throttle opening, and accelera-
tion and maximum speed are of a high
order.
Neither is it necessary in the
new Wolseley 25 to maintain
high engine revs, by continuous
g.ear changing in hilly country,
for the six-cylinder o.h.v. motor
develops 100 b.h.p. at the com-
paratively low speed of 3800
revs, per minute. Bore 82mm.
and stroke 110 mm. give swept
volume of 3485 c.c., compres-
sion pressure used being 6 to 1.
R.A.C. rating is 25 h.p.
Pistons are of composite
type, having an aluminium
head and a steel split skirt,
the junction of metals being
immediately below the lowest
of the three rings located
above gudgeon pin. Two
rings are for compression and one is
an oil-retainer. Con. rods are steel forg-
ings machined to reduce weight. Big-
end bearings are of the full ring, butted
type, white-metal lined and completely
encircling the crankpin, each half making
contact without leaving a gap or requir-
ing the use of packing shims.
Section of unit four-speed gearbox and
clutch assembly, showing compact yet
sturdy construction.
The crankshaft, statically and dynami-
cally balanced, runs in four babbitt-lined
main bearings and is equipped with a
harmonic vibration damper on the for-
ward end. The camshaft also runs on
four pressure-lubricated metal-lined bear-
ings.
Smart lines and racy appearance of the new 25-h.p. Super Six Wolseley sedan.
The overhead valves are push-rod
operated through harmonic cams to over-
head rockers. The clearance between
stems and rockers is considerably
greater than in normal practice, being
15 thou, when engine is warm. This
clearance must be strictly adhered to if
maximum power is desired. To assist
owners in making this adjustment and
to ensure the engine is rotated the fewest
number of times No. 1 tappet should be
set with No. 12 valve fully open, No. 2
with 11 open and so on. The push rods,
of drawn-steel tubing, have hardened
cups in which the rocker-arm balls are
located.
The fuel tank, suspended between rear
dumb irons, holds 134- gals. Twin dia-
phragm-type, electrically-operated fuel
pumps are mounted on the dash and de-
liver petrol to twin down-draught SU
carburettors equipped with air cleaners
and silencers. Throttles of both carburet-
tors are interconnected, the openings care-
fully synchronised to ensure smooth and
even running. Full pressure lubrication
is provided to main, con.-rod, camshaft,
timing and valve gear bearings. Cylinder
walls are splash lubricated. Oil is drawn
from the sump by a gear-type pump and
is delivered into a passage in the pump
casing, passing to a large demountable
external filter and then into the external
main delivery pipe running the full
length of the engine block. Excess oil
is by-passed back to the suction side of
the pump through a release valve.
Located on the end of the suction pipe
within the sump is a floating screen which
allows only clean oil to be drawn into
the system.
The electrical system is Lucas 12-volt,
of separator-unit type, the generator, belt-
driven, being equipped with a combined
automatic cutout and automatic voltage
regulator.
Starter motor is of Bendix type. Igni-
tion is by coil and battery, with automatic
advance and retard in distributor head.
Micrometer adjustment, manually con-
trolled, is also provided to give the most
effective firing point when using various
grades of fuel. Firing order is 1-5-3-6-2-4.
Plugs are 14mm., gap 22-25 thou.,
breaker-point gap 12 thou.
The unit-constructed engine and gear-
box is mounted in the chassis at four
points on live rubber cushions. Trans-
mission is through a single wetplate-type
clutch, with cork inserts. Running in oil.
the supply is maintained at constant level
through the rear crankshaft bearing.
Any excess is
drained back to the
sump through a
duct in the fly-
wheel housing. The
gearbox, bolted to
the engine, has a
central change-
speed lever. Four
forward speeds and
reverse are incor-
porated, third and
top of silent syn-
chromesh type.
Gear ratios, engine'
to road wheels, are,
top, 4.45 to 1;
third, 6.59 to 1;
second, 10.46 to 1;
low, 18.57 to 1; re-
verse, 23.87 to 1.
Component parts of Wolseley Super Six clutch, showing cork
inserts on driving disc.
A dipstick in the top cover plate is
readily accessible for checking the gear-
box oil level. Propeller shaft is tubular,
with Hardy-Spicer needle roller univer-
sal joints front and rear. A lubricat-
ing nipple fitted to the front universal
joint fork serves to oil the spline shaft
behind the gearbox.
The rear axle is three-quarter floating,
in a pressed-steel banjo housing. Crown
Section of one of the twin S.U. car-
burettors, showing internal construction.
wheel and pinion are spiral bevel, the
reduction ratio being 4.45 to 1. A level
dipstick is attached to the filler plug on
the diff. casing. In the car tested there
was a noticeable hum in the back-axle
assembly, due possibly to incorrect ad-
justment of ring gear.
The chassis is of X-girder construc-
tion, reinforced by pressed-steel cross
members. Wheelbase is
121 Ain. ; track, 4ft. Sin.; mini-
mum ground clearance (under
jacks), 64in.
Springs are semi-elliptic,
front and rear, interleaved
with zinc strips. Luvax double-
acting hydraulic shock-absorb-
ers are fitted front and rear.
Permanent four-wheel hy-
draulic jacks are fitted to the
chassis, the control being in
the panel beneath the floor-
boards in front of the driver’s
seat. Turning the control knob indicator
to F allows the front wheels to be raised ;
to R, rear wheels; to ALL, all four
wheels simultaneously.
Service brakes, foot-operated, on all
four wheels, are Lockheed hydraulic,
fully compensated. Emergency hand-
brake and parking-brake operate through
cables to the rear wheels. Steering is of
Bishop cam and lever type, shims pro-
vided to take up lost motion between
cam and rocker shaft. Steering column


USEFUL DATA ON
25-H.P. WOLSELEY.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h.
12 3*5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p,
in top in 7 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h.
third in 5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h.
second in 3 3*5 seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft.
Maximum speed, 79.64 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 24 m-p.g.
It’s Not what you PAY
it’s what you RECEIVE . . .
V»Wg)ll£
OXI
GREATER
MILEAGE
T7ALVOLINE Oil gives more trouble-free miles
“ and makes every engine part last longer,
because it is refined from the world's finest
crudes.
Valvoline, the best oil your money can buy,
comes to you in "tamper-proof" tins, sealed as a
protection against substitution, dirt, adulteration
and short mesaure.
Ask your garageman!
Advt. of J. CARRIGAN. Sydney, Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth
H 3-36
i
»* '
* M : ;
4 ■
mi
m
m i
R
m
***:< <«*%«>: >:■ a^>'
USPR # iil
f ILEAL OLYMPIAN!
JESSE OWENS the world’s
champion sprint runner and
one of the sensations of the
XI Olympic Games.
Years of arduous training and
brilliant competitive perform-
ances have, as yet, failed to
fault this great athlete whose
versatility enabled him to win
three Olympic championships
at Berlin.
Similarly, inbuilt qualities of
speed, strength, and stamina are
possessed by the Champion
Australian-made—
Olympic tyres
for Cars , Trucks and Cycles !
is adjustable for length. Turning circle
is 44ft.
Bodywork is of distinctive design, with
interior fitting serviceable and neatly
arranged. There is a built-in luggage
compartment in the rear panel.
The car tested, a 25-h.p. Super Six
sedan, was fitted with an imported body
and Triplex glass. Over loose dirt roads
on the test course this body proved to be
far from dustproof, but in the standard
Australian-built body the trouble has
been overcome by liberal use of sponge
rubber on all door and window joints.
Non-shatterable glass is also fitted. Gross
weight of car, including driver, observer
and fuel, was 36-}cwt. (registered weight
32|-cwt.). Speedometer reading was 6672
miles. The engine had been thoroughly
run in and was quite free and smooth
at all speeds. Driven by B. L. Tyson,
of Dalgetys, Ltd., N.S.W. distributors,
the car proved easy to handle in busy
traffic, top-gear acceleration, sports type
steering, and smooth yet powerful
brakes engendering a confident sense of
control in all circumstances. On the
open road a high cruising speed was
comfortably maintained on small throttle
opening, pulling on top gear being dis-
tinctly good.
In a test of coasting from a steady
speed of 15 m.p.h. in neutral the
Wolseley rolled 778 yards in still air—
a record in this series of tests, proving
Part section of six-cyl. engine, showing salient features.
excellent alignment and freedom from
triction in all transmission details.
Maximum speed, timed over a
measured mile with flying start, was
clocked in 45 l-ssec., averaging 79.64
m.p.h., and over this section the engine
was smooth, but, owing to the fitting of
oversize tyres, the car showed a slight
tendency to wander.
Through the unmade section via Grose
Vale road-holding qualities were excel-
lent, and on the speed climb of 2 1-5
miles of Kurrajong Mountain from a
standing start the time, 3min. llsec.,
has only been bettered on four occa-
sions, yet through the several acute
bends at speed the car hung to the road
in a remarkable manner with a notice-
able absence of swaying or rolling.
Returning down the mountain emer
gency brakes were tested with satisfac-
tory results.
Proceeding via the Castlereagh road
to Penrith slow running acceleration and
braking tests were made. Slow running
in top gear for 350
yards was clocked
in 2min. 25sec., aver-
aging 4.9 m.p.h.
This was followed
immediately by 350
yards on full throttle
in 16 l-ssec., averag-
ing 44.4 m.p.h., and
revealing the splen-
did flexibility of the
engine in top gear.
From a steady 10
m.p.h. to 30 m.p.h.
in top took 7sec., in
third ssec., in second
3 3-ssec., and from a
standstill to 50
m.p.h. through gears
12 3-ssec., indicating
snappy performance
in traffic.
From 25 m.p.h.
the hydraulic ser-
vice brakes stopped
the car in 21ft.
At the conclusion
of the test, covering
120:7 miles, the
average speed, in-
elusive of all tests, was found to be
36.7 m.p.h. Petrol consumed, sgal. 30z.,
showed an average of 24 m.p.g. (43.5 ton
miles), coasting being permitted.
Impressions gathered were that, so far
as road performance, ease of manipula-
tion and safe and comfortable riding
qualities were concerned, the Wolseley
Super Six is definitely in the upper circle
of cars available to the Australian public,
while fuel consumption, even when
driven at high cruising speeds, is very
good indeed.
Solving the Transport Problem in
Germany.
With characteristic thoroughness Ger-
many has for some time been conducting
experiments with a view to producing a
car which, while reliable and reasonably
efficient can be produced in quantities
at a price low enough to be within reach
of almost any person.
Chassis and engine of Germany's national
car Der Volkswagen.
The accompanying sketch from the
‘‘Motor” shows the chassis layout and
engine of this national effort. It is
claimed that Der Volkswagen, as the
machine is termed, can be sold for the
equivalent of £BO.
It will be noted that the design is new
and includes many principles that have
been the subject of experiment and test
in popular makes of cars. Chassis is a
pressed-steel section of cruciform design,
inexpensive to manufacture and ex-
tremely rigid. All four wheels are inde-
pendently sprung, those in front by
means of double arms and torsion-bars
passing through the pressed-steel tubular
front section. Rear wheels are attached
to pivoted axles equipped with universal
joints on each side of the gearbox.
Power plant, constructed in unit with
gearbox, is air-cooled, with detachable
head, and is mounted at the rear. Rear
axle torque is taken through flexible
arms, one end being anchored to the
rear cross-member of the chassis and the
other held by a bushing over the axle
housing.
It is stated that the touring model will
weigh approximately lOcwt. and will
have a road speed of 45 m.p.h. Petrol
consumption ratio will be between 50
and 60 m.p.g. ■
The Trouble Lamp.
F.C.A. (New Lambton, N.S.W.). —(1) / have
a universal ignition coil marked six volt. Could
1, in case of emergency, use this on a 12-
volt system, and how would it act ? (2) Valve-
stem clearance in my ’34 ASX Yauxhall is
eight thou. hot. What is cold clearance ? (31
Correct tyre pressures for ASX Vauxhall ? (4)
What should be used to polish headlight re-
flectors ? (5) Precautions to take in maintain-
ing efficiency of shock-absorbers in 14 -h.p.
Vauxhall sedan ?
(1) It would not be efficient but would give
enough spark to start and get you home.
Might misfire badly at high revs. (2) Cannot
say. Only safe procedure is to adjust with
engine at normal working temperature. (3) 251 b.
all round. (4) Never use abrasive materials;
sponge with soap solution or weak ammonia
and dry off quickly with soft cloth. (5) Dis-
mantle, take tops off, wash out with methylated
spirit and fill with' special shock-absorber oil
before replacing.
* 'I I ❖
L.M.W. (Malboona, N.S.W.). —Your article
(B. 22/7/’36) on renovating upholstery did not
explain how imitation leather could be recon-
ditioned. I have been informed that spraying
with lacquer will restore this type of upholstery
to its original condition. Is this correct, and,
if so, what should be used ?
Fabric upholstery is difficult to recondition,
particularly when the material cracks and
breaks away along folds of squab. Only satis-
factory repair is to insert a piece of similar
material, but reconditioning of sorts may be
done by either cementing a piece of material
over the damaged area or spraying with one of
the brushing lacquers such as Dulux. But
even where the color is matched correctly,
the original damage will be visible.
* * * *
3261. —(1) What are the respective merits of
reboring and inserting sleeves ? (2) What would
be the effect of fitting aluminium pistons to
a ’27 model car so far as acceleration and petrol
consumption are concerned ? (3) What are the
two adjustments on the carburettor of a ’27
Buick, and where can an instruction manual be
procured?
(1) Reboring involves the fitting of new.
(oversize) pistons, alters cubic capacity and
compression pressure and in many instances
upsets engine balance. When sleeves are fitted,
balance, weight and size are maintained, pro-
viding performance similar to that of new
motor. (2) Almost without exception the cor-
rect type and design of alloy piston will give
better acceleration than iron pistons. Petrol
consumption should, in theory, be better, but is
not always so in practice. (3) Knurled nut on
top of carburettor is for air adjustment; best
position usually is when turned out far enough
to come flush with top of brass retaining strip.
The low-speed needle in form of a wheel valve
at. bottom of carburettor should be opened
about three-quarter turn.
* * * *
P.O. (Bredbo, N.S.W.). —Where can I obtain
details of the round-Australia contest io be
held in ’3B ?
From Albert Mitchell, secretary, round-Aus-
tralia contest committee, Atlas Buildings, 8
Spring-street, Sydney.
L.McI. (Moss Vale, N.S.W.)—(I) Counter-
shaft and bushes in the gearbox of my six-
cylinder car (46,000 miles) are badly scored,
setting up a grinding noise at speeds of 15-20
m.p.h. Cause and cure ? (2) What causes a
clatter in the engine as
revs, drop when climb-
ing ? All slackness has
been taken out of crank-
shaft bearings, but the
only way I can stop the
noise is to pull out the
choke. A ny suggestions ?
(1) Noise probably
emanates from worn
clutch assembly, scored
shaft and bushes duo
cither to insufficient
or incorrect lubrication
or to excessive play due
io wear. (2) Symptoms
indicate cither worn
cylinders, slack gud-
geon pins or both.
Pulling out the choke
merely supplies the
cylinders with an ex-
tremely rich and slow burning mixture, thereby
reducing thrust on piston. Suggest drawing out
a piston, measuring bore and checking wear
in gudgeon pin and bushing.
* * * *
L.T. (Rockhampton, Q.). —Would two car-
burettors in my possession (details supplied)
be suitable to fit to my four-cylinder car ?
It is questionable whether better results would
be obtained than with existing carburettor.
Fitting would involve casting a special intake
manifold, careful synchronisation of carburet-
tors and a good deal of experimenting with
jets and chokes before satisfactory running
could be expected.
-I*
W.M., No. 3262. —I am considering purchas-
ing a new car and hesitate between five types
in one price group and three in higher range.
I daresay choice will depend on trade-in allow-
ance, but your advice as to relative values of
performance and price will be of assistance.
Allowances or discounts have no bearing
upon the performance-price value of a car—-
that is entirely a matter of adjustment between
buyer and agent. Suggest 3,2, 1, 5 and 4 in
that order in the first group and 6 or 8, then 7,
in the higher range.


“THE AGE’’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States dr —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
23,3 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION: —Adelaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of "The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use "The Evening Post’
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that "The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello . House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Long White Cloud
Chasing Easier Money
A slowing-up in the development of
Maoriland’s small-farms scheme has been
reported by the Lands and Survey De-
partment. King Country camps have had
to be dismantled, owing to shortage of
men: “Some of the workers left for
other positions carrying higher rates of
pay,” was the naive explanation.
Until the first quarter of 1936, steady
progress was maintained in the number
of settlers established under the scheme
and in the development of land for more
farms. It was a good plan for getting
more Maorilanders on the land with a
reasonable chance of keeping themselves
and their families. But by March 31
“retarding factors” began to check pro-
gress.
One was the real difficulty of obtain-
ing suitable land from private sources.
Another was the “increasing cost of
many commodities, particularly building
materials,” which made it difficult to es-
tablish and equip each holding within
the cost limit of £l2OO for each man
settled. Then there was the lack of men
for preliminary development work and
the future occupancy of the farmlets.
Labor can’t have its cake and eat it' at
the same time. Not even Mr. Semple can
stop the drift from small-farm develop-
ment schemes to the better-paid Public-
Works undertakings; nor can any Gov-
ernment increase wages and taxation
and shorten hours without bumping up
prices of commodities necessary for any
closer-settlement scheme. The pity of it
is that the small farms promised a decent
life for families now following husbands
and fathers back to jobs of doubtful
tenure on unproductive railway con-
structions.
On Friday Jean Batten flew from
Richmond (N.S.W.) to New Plymouth
(M.L.) in 9 hours 29 minutes, and, con-
tinuing on to Auckland, landed at the
Mangere aerodrome in 104 hours
exactly. Not only did she establish new
figures for the Tasman crossing (11 hour?.
58 minutes was Charles Ulm’s time), but
she made millions think. “There are
twelve hundred good reasons against our
joining the Commonwealth,” said a
Maoriland politician nearly 40 years ago.
Surely Miss Batten has demonstrated
that, in respect of air defence anyway,
the 1200 good reasons no longer exist.
* * * #
For months there has been a flow of
money for investment from Maoriland
to Australia. The movement has been
inspired, in part at least, by fears of in-
flation, and politicians have accelerated
it by talking vague mush about “costless
credit.” Finance Minister Nash, before
setting out for London, announced
reassuringly that his Government “does
not intend to use the printing press to
finance it's increase in expenditure,” and
will be “charged interest on all the money
it raises from the Reserve Bank.”
j|i H* v '!*
“J.M.”: The Canberra Government’s
trade war with Japan prompted Maori-
land to look into its own position. It
discovered that Japanese consumption of
its wool had increased nearly 250 per
cent, in a year, and that a meat trade
was growing up with Japan. In May,
when Lyttelton was included in the direct
route of the Osaka Shosen Kaisha ships,
greater quantities of frozen meat went
into their holds. Then agents for the
shipping co. told the Christchurch
"Press” there was a chance that M.L.
would get a whack of Japan's dairy-
produce requirements, of which Aus-
tralia had almost a monopoly. There
has been no suggestion that Wellington
should copy Canberra’s policy.
* * * *
A manufacturer of woollens from
Huddersfield, visiting M.L. for the Em-
pire Congress of Chambers of Com-
merce, mentioned to a pressman that
“Last time I umpired here they chucked me in the creek."
“special efforts are being made .in Yprk-
shire to exploit N.Z. wool: the demand
for it is likely to increase more and
more.” That is comforting to M.L., but
it might be prudent to wait before build-
ing towering hopes on it. Australia was
assured about four months ago that
special efforts would be made by York-
shire to exploit Australian wool, and is
wondering what happened to them.
“Sheblows”: Douglas Mawson .says
Australia should establish its own whal-
ing industry. Persons interested need
only cross the Tasman for a thriving
parallel. Maoriland has a small but
modern whaling industry in Tory
Channel, out from Picton, where 57
whales yielded £3830 of oil during the
1935 season. Lookout stations telephone
headquarters when whales are observed
on their Cook Strait migrations ; speedy
chasers equipped with the latest killing
devices dash in pursuit, and while the
chase is on two-way radio telephonic
communication is maintained with shore
stations to provide against appearance
of other schools. The Peranos, one of
the operating concerns, have been
whalers since rowboat days, and their
family story would enthral! a Herge-
sheimer.
“Motu”: When Maori elders met at
Rotorua early in the month to discuss
co-operation with the Government in
matters affecting native welfare, chiefs of
the Arawa tribe welcomed the visitors
with “orations in traditional Maori style.”
These orations are interesting—for the
first few hours. After that, each succeed-
ing Maori who struts up and down before
his people, streaming native words and
drawing grunts of approval or disgust
from the old women, becomes more
tedious than the last one to European
listeners. This was the case at Waitara in
1930, when Maoris gathered for the
reception of the ashes of Maui Pomare.
Pressmen, Government officials and
municipal representatives yawned and
fidgeted as one unintelligible chief after
another paid his tribute to a departed
leader; and the youngest son of that
leader yawned a little, too. Maori was
not his strong point, and when he spoke
later he used beautiful English —and an
interpreter. I have often wondered what
those grey old warriors before him were
saying. I know what some of them said
after they heard young Pomare use
English!
* * * *
“Kiwit”: A chain of, Empire farm
schools, on the lines of the Fairbridge in-
stitution in Westralia, has been suggested
as one way of filling empty spaces. Flock
House, at Palmerston North, has been
mentioned as Maoriland’s contribution.
This should meet with the. approval of
the woolgrowers who first established it
for British boys whose fathers were killed
or wounded while serving with the war-
time mercantile marine. Old Flock
House boys are. to-day farming their own
land in many M.L. districts ; they, too,
would be ready to lend a helping hand
to boys completing the same training. In-
cidentally, girls who lost their fathers in
the same way were included in Flock
House quotas when passing years
brought fewer applications from boys.
* * *
“Xo”: Someone in Vic. wrestled a
161 b. eel on to the bank the other day
and the Melbourne dailies marvelled.
Twenty- and thirty-pounders are not un-
common in Maoriland’s wooded creeks
and weedy lakes. One woman near
Ngaruawahia has a brace of tame ones
in the Waikato River ; they slime their
211 b. and 281 b. girths to the river sur-
face and feed from her fingers. There’s
no need for you to accept hearsay evi-
dence of this—the M.L. Government
office in Melbourne has a photograph of
the monsters nosing a ladylike hand. *
“Korero”: Ancient prospectors in
Southland’s fiord country dream of
more than gold ; if one of them could
find a notornis mantelli, or takahe, he
would have tucker money for the rest
of his days. This is a bird so rare that
only four have been found ; one is in
the Dunedin (M.L.) Museum, two are
in the British Museum and the other
is in Dresden Museum. Bigger and
plumper than a swamp hen, the takahe
had the same plumage sheen and,
according to the old Maoris, screeched
like two pieces of greenstone banged
together. A rabbiter collected £250 from
the Government for the last of the four,
which he stumbled on near Lake Te
Anau in the ’nineties.
* * * *
“Pip”: Fruitgrowers' representatives at
the Conciliation Council’s Hastings
(M.L.) hearing during the industrial dis-
pute concerning storemen and packers
went close to apoplexy when they learned
that Labor’s 40-hour week could keep
their perishable products on the trees
while employees took time off. Land-
men all have seasonal rush periods when
time and weather mean the difference be-
tween profit and loss for the year. Aus-
tralian, as well as Maoriland, orchardists,
dairy- and woolmen generally get whole-
hearted co-operation from their men,
and after the rush invariably meet the
convenience of employees in the matter
of holidays. Political application of in-
dustrial law to primary production is an
intrusion that might cost many em-
ployees the permanency of their slack-
season jobs.


I
Eulogises Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
as a Remedy for Lumbago and Sciatica
Brigadier Walter S. Solomon, of the Salvation Army Territorial
Headquarters Staff, Sydney, is widely known and highly respected,
not only for his Army work in Australia but also as a Padre in
France during the Great War, where he served for well over three
years. With his characteristic desire to assist others at all times, he
has sent the following letter relating his experiences with Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills while suffering from Lumbago and
Sciatica:—
The Salvation Army,
1 40 Elizabeth Street,
Dear Sirs, Sydney.
1 understand that you are the agents for Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills.
1 want to tell you of my unbounded confidence in them.
About seven years ago I was asked to try them, as this was the only
medicine my friend had in the house, and as it was late on Saturday night
and no other remedy was available. I tried them. 1 was suffering from
Lumbago and Sciatica, to which I have been a sufferer for the last 24 years.
The next day I was much better, and after a few days lost all my pain.
Whenever I get a backache I fly to these pills, and every time I get relief
in 24 hours, and in a few days am quite free from pain.
I never travel now without a bottle in my bag.
They are worth their weight in gold, and when you realise what
wonderful pain removers they are I marvel at the cost being only 1/3 a bottle.
I am voluntarily sending you this testimonial, and you are at liberty to
use it in whatever way you like. If it will help some other sufferer to get the
relief that 1 have got I shall be very happy.
Yours truly,
(Signed) WALTER S. SOLOMON.
The old idea that rheumatic conditions are caused by Uric Acid is being discredited,
and the opinion is now held they are caused by failure of Nature’s chemical processes,
particularly in the small intestines and the liver, which causes toxins (poisons) and
dangerous by-products to enter the blood stream. These toxins affect the muscles, nerves,
and’ joints, and movement becomes painful.
In other words, medical authorities are coming to the conclusion that the way to combat
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica and such rheumatic conditions is to keep all the organs of
digestion and elimination in a state of healthy, vigorous functioning. Regular free bowel
movements and an active liver are necessary to relieve the strain on the kidneys.
The use of
Dr.MORSES
k
1
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
I
PILLS
has proved of great benefit in thousands of such cases. If you suffer from a rheumatic
condition, which is often indicated by Lumbago and Sciatica, a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills is recommended, combined with an outward application of Comstock's Nerve and'
Bone Liniment.
[ Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn.—When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet.—Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving.-—A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until dry.
The cleansing and cooling actions of
this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading, stores or will be sent
post paid upon receipt of postal
notes or stamps by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or direct from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
I Jnw,
TC
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
s's'
\> e e * V ’
i>°,o
V <V ,lp°
e 0
&%*>& <<fe?2rO*
»> oV > 5^Ts<^
•# ,i»y '' .1#
-o'
.\e v
,o^
.aO\ .* •' ..•* ..-**
vr , •••■ ..•■• .-•• .44
••• ■•• 0 ,
o< .* .•• ,
.-•• ..•••' a. 4 *H£


If every Wife knew what every Widow knows,
every Married Man would carry the Maximum
Amount of Life Assurance that he (and his
Wife) could buy.
IHIIIIIIIIi
The One Investment that Completes Itself
Life Assurance guarantees the delivery of money that time will bring if
you do not live long enough to complete the job.
mWmm
|P ; •• yfr
w wpfr
NsS
fm
mm
Calculating the amount of Income his Wife and Family would have to live
on in the event of his early death.
Send your name and address for particulars of the
Latest 15,6/ g Family Protection Contracts
providing for Monthly Income for Wife and Family for periods as long as
twenty years after death of assured, the premium for which is very little
greater than for the ordinary Life Policy.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
Corner of Castlereagh Street and Martin Place, Sydney
FOUNDED IN 1886
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, in Canada and Great Britain
Assets Exceed £24,000,000 - - Annual Income Exceeds £3,300,000
Amounts paid to policyholders Exceed £30,000,000
