

m . .
me
wm
iaSB
I «
s
M
•mam.
P§l
■:>v
i«ll I
PT '■ v , ~ HI H
§■ p®? MgS}
|||' : ; p>.- j
!>*r v
V ;:V •
©
\3
' ••• .7 -•'
pg
i ‘j
v<
sMjpSap
PP
- ’ ?
,» ■ I
i v
■ m w%
38#x&
*
'1
• ip..- ... S,
,'„*p ' ,P? .
SERVICE
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
GP.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane
G.P.O. Box IOI7N.
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street.
Townsville
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
CM L. Buijding,
King William Sreet,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 65QF.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z Chambers
Fearherstone Street.
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O, Box 562 Wellington.
I
Each day thousands of queries concerning
investments are raised. Prompt and efficient
replies to these mean much to those whose
capital must be kept earning at maximum
capacity consistent with safety and security.
At the service of investors throughout Aust-
ralia and New Zealand is the organisation of
Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd., which effec-
tively answers problems facing investors and
affords sound advice.
No matter what your financial or investment
problems Hamiltons expert staff is at your
service. Enquiries regarding the possi-
bilities of stocks and shares which you are
holding, or contemplate purchasing, will be
promptly answered.
Let Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. advise you;
enquiries place you under no obligation.
Ask for particulars of Hamiltons' offerings
of shares in established dividend-paying
companies.
mm.
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital £250,000
Head Office, KEMBILA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Brandi Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W. ’Phone, Armidale 150. Box No. 123 Armidale.
T nion Bank Chambers, Cnr. of Hunter and Bolton Streets. Newcastle. 'Phone: Newcastle 1942.
The Bulletin
Two Competitions for Youths
Vol. 57.—N0. 2964.
Wednesday, December 2, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
sun
This Booh FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ _ CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
'advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. <
My Name ..
My Address
8.8. 436 ..
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year.for a work of literature ... ,
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third yearls competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The- trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy,
if published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees. ~ .
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions o.n other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
EUGENE
O’NEILL
Eugene O’Neill,
ex-goldminer, ex-
man-
ager, ex-clerk and
ex-fo’c’sle hand,
collects the Nobel Prize for 1936, just
after his forty-eighth birthday and just
sixteen years since, with “Beyond the
Horizon,” he took his place at the head
of American playwrights and banked the
first of three Pulitzer Prizes.
O’Neill is one of the strangest figures
in letters to-day. The greatest dramatist
writing in English, he is unacted and
almost unactable in England. The
greatest of individualists, the man who
denied orthodox religion in “Dynamo,”
he is claimed by both Communists and
Catholics. The disciple of Strindberg, he
has devoted the last third of his career
to an affirmation of his belief in life.
He has been called a mystic and retorted
with “Desire Under the Elms,” which
is as realistic as seasickness. He has
been called humorless and replied with
the satyr-play “Ah Wilderness.” He has,
in fact, so many sides to his genius that
it takes on the appearance of univer-
sality. And if we apply to him the two
tests of genius ; if we examine his works
for strength and variety he emerges with
a clear title to that overused word.
O’Neill is a dramatist of a stage family
and stage training. His father was an
actor who, later, was associated with the
tremendous success “The Count of
Monte Cristo.” Young Eugene travelled
the United Slates with James O’Neill; his
first attempts at writing were done when
associated with his father’s business. At
a moment of confusion in the American
theatre he ran away to sea. From his
knockabout years—the open sea, the
haunts of beachcombers and the tavern
iife of London and New York —he
gained invaluable contact with men and
learned their speech and their ways.
When after eight years of wandering his
thin frame buckled before the assaults
af tubercle he was owner of enough ex-
perience to make the work of organisa-
tion worth while. He began it in a sana-
torium, reinforced it with reading, and
the result was ultimately “The Straw”
and a group of short plays about the sea.
The sea plays made him. The success
of one, “In the Zone,” was immense ; the
vaudeville audiences loved it, and the
Pulitzer Prize in 1920 for “Beyond the
Horizon” endorsed their judgment.
Since then O’Neill has published 20
plays. How many he has written no one
knows; he' was reported to have de-
stroyed 20 others 10 years ago. In the
issued work there is material which
ranges from a play about a stoker to a
modernisation of Greek drama, from a
study of racial conflicts to a fantasy
about the laugh of Lazarus. There are
works which can be played in 15 minutes
and others in which the audience adjourns
for supper and then goes back to wit-
ness the final act. The playing time
of “Strange Interlude” was originally
almost eight hours; “Mourning Becomes
Electra” is really three plays in one, a
blend of the themes of three Greek
dramatists with some pure O’Neill and
an adoption of the Greek trilogy form.
Throughout these works, even the most
abstruse of them, there are scenes of
great beauty, of strange elevation. Read-
ing O’Neill one may be puzzled at the
manner of presentation of the work, and
even the sharpest imagination will miss
the quality which gives greatest point to
his dramas, his visual appeal. The thing
can be easiest understood by taking a
well-known play such as “The Emperor
Jones.” No degree of imagination can
achieve the effect of the succession of
strange scenes in this play coupled with
the growing emotional tension created by
the quickening drumbeats which presage
the end of the pursuit. You find the
same quality in his “Marco Polo where
the ladies of the Court of the Great
Khan titter at the uncouth foreigner ; in
“Dynamo” with the great man-made
machine, symbol of the capture of
strange forces, humming strangely; in
the outburst of the stoker in “The Hairy
Ape,” after that entry of a perfumed
woman from another world; in the
sense of fulfilment when Lavinia, her
life completed, enters the Man non home
and lowers the blinds for her mourning.
The nearest thing to this scene ill English
is the grieving of the old, mad King
Lear or the mourning of Synge’s old
woman in “Riders to the Sea,” when she
realises that her family’s part with the
sea is finished, that never again can the
sea harm her.
O’Neill set out as a critic of society ;
he has ended by becoming a defender of
life. His fascinated approach to the pat-
terns of living stamp him as a classic ;
“Sthange Interlude” is as complete in its
way as “Mourning Becomes Electra,”
though its bare theme, which tells of
neurosis, frustration and deceit, is closely
allied to that of any modern novel of
aimless youth. In these plays the effect
has been achieved by a directness and
simplicity of dialogue which was a fore-
runner of the method of Hemingway, by
a bold invention which has taken each
dramatic don’t and proved that it can be
broken. O’Neill has caught up his
material where he found it—from life,
as in the plays of the sea; from litera-
ture, as in his studies of Lazarus and
Marco Polo—but he has taken each
theme and refashioned it, so that Marco
becomes a sort of perambulating Babbitt,
with a Babbitt’s hazy dreams of better
things, and Lazarus is delivered to sharp
suffering. The devices which have been
employed by O’Neill extend from the
masks of “The Great God Brown” to the
projected thought forms of “Strange In-
terlude,”. the settings from a liner’s stoke-
hold to the Fountain of Youth.
There are weaknesses, of course ; the
body of his work is too considerable to
be without flaw. He was captive to the
psychologists and given to employment
of their jargon until about five years
ago ; he has pushed his situations to ex-
tremes ; he has not always shown that in-
tangible thing which the English call
good taste. But these things, inevit-
able in a man whose imagination has
ranged so far and whose aspirations have
been so high, have been pruned little by
little, until to-day a classicist I know i§>
able to say that he gets much the same
feeling from O’Neill that he has
had from Conrad. There is, of
course, more than a superficial resem-
blance between the men. O’Neill may
not have Conrad’s gift of language, but
he has his sense of inevitable and brood-
ing destiny, his recognition of the sea as
the concrete symbol of this thing and his
long and, at bottom, exalted preoccupa-
tion with man’s struggle towards a dimly-
perceived goal; the feeling that life is a
challenge and that the meeting of the
challenge is alone worth while.
QUENTIN POPE.
Samuel
Marsden,
Hero
The general
impression of the
Rev. Samuel
Marsden, incum-
bent of the parish
of St. John’s,
Parrama t ta,
founder of missions and orphanages and
pioneer grazier, has been gathered from
fiction rather than from history. He is
regarded as a pillar of a bad system, a
parson who in his capacity as magistrate
forgot to be merciful and humane, and
who in his zeal for money-getting
neglected his pastoral duties. Macquarie
is on record as to Marsden’s severity on
the bench, but it is sometimes forgotten
that the Governor had been attacked (he
thought by Marsden) in reference to
some of the worst features of the con-
vict system, and sought to prove that if
he was a black kettle Marsden was a no
cleaner pot. That the stocky little ex-
blacksmith had a peppery temper and a
keen eye for the main chance sticks out
all over the authentic records of his
period. But delving into these Eric
Ramsden has produced in Marsden and
the Missions (Angus and Robertson;
12s. 6d.) a mass of evidence concerning
Marsden’s genuine piety, his courage,
and his firm stand by his principles.
It may hot have been Marsden’s fault
if he was not zealous as a parish priest.
He complains in a letter written early in
his Australian ministry that in New
South Wales “the Gospel seems to be
intended only for children, common sol-
diers and convicts in irons.” Society,
such as there was, stayed away from
church. Officers marched soldiers to
service, and left them at the door.
Gaolers did the same with convicts. And
the convicts were not all innocent farm
lads sent out for trapping a rabbit or
elegant young gentlemen falsely con-
victed of forgery. In the mass they were
the bottom dregs of criminality, and
their strong leaven made the young
colony a sink of iniquity. Many of the
aspects of its vice and degradation were
of a sort that could not be published
either then or now. The main root of
Marsden’s unpopularity, in Ramsden’s
view, is that he declaimed against the
iniquities he saw and was no respecter of
persons in doing so.
But whatever may have been thought
of the bull-necked aggressive little man in
Australia, there is a consensus of opinion
that he made a splendid impression in
Maoriland. He first visited that colony
in 1814, and from then till 1837, the
year before his death, he kept in close
touch with the mission he had estab-
lished there, making in all seven voyages
thither. The Maoris, shrewd judges of
men, liked him and. trusted him. To
them he was “Te Matenga,” wise, brave
and full of commonsense tact. He
found the Maori people at Kororareka
(Bay of Islands) on the high road to ex-
tinction. The “scum of Port Jackson
and the Pacific generally” had descended
there. The prostitution of Maori women
was the principal source of income of
“many prominent chiefs,” venereal
disease, infanticide and alcoholism were
taking a deadly toll of the native people.
Marsden, like a latter-day Jocelyn de
Brakelond, tucked up his ecclesiastical
skirts and waded into a mighty task. To
him and to such men as William Wil-
liams (later Bishop of Waiapu) and to
such mighty Methodists as Nathaniel
Turner, rather than to the Colonial Office
and its blundering administration, is it
due that the Maoris were not wiped out
in the first three decades of the nine-
teenth century.
The hardest blow Marsden had to
suffer in connection with Maoriland was
the dark scandal connected with the
withdrawal from the mission there of
the Rev. William Yate, accused (on
what Marsden, at any rate, considered
overwhelmingly adequate evidence) of
what police-court reporters delicately
term “unnatural offences.” This fol-
lowed other setbacks. In Marsden’s own
words, “The first head of it [the M.L.
Church of England mission] was dis-
missed for adultery; the second for
drunkenness.” Marsden crossed the
Tasman to remove Yate, taking with him
his daughter Martha, on whose account
of the journey and the experiences she
and her father had in M.L. Mr. Ramsden
draws liberally. They arrived at a time
of inter-tribal war. Marsden and Wil-
liam Williams strove valiantly as peace-
makers, but could not avert bloodshed.
Marsden died a few months later at his
home in Windsor. He was in his seventy-
fourth year, tired after a life.
His last whispered words were “New
Zealand.”
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
Juan in
Australia
Westralian
J. M. Harcourt,
now engaged in
Melbourne jour-
nalism, is honest
enough to risk unpopularity with It
Never Fails (John Long, Ltd.; 7s. 6d.),
but absent-minded enough to forget that
there are decent Australians. Parts of the
book rob the author of his sting and the
yarn of its full importance. There is suf-
ficient unadorned truth in it to make
Australians squirm.
Julius, created after the style of Link-
later’s Juan, is an ingenuous young Eng-
lishman who, within 48 hours of landing
in Perth, gets into a riot, a hospital, a
gaol, a courtroom and a double bed.
Harcourt whisks him up to Darwin and
the north-west coast, sends him pearling
out of Broome, chases him round to
Queensland’s Italians and sugarcane, and
again mixes him up with the police. He
hoofs it to an up-country N.S.W. station,
where he is overtaken by the pseudo title
foisted on him by a Perth newspaper.
He becomes an immediate social success,
but finds his new acquaintances as un-
reliable as the toughs he met on the open
road.
It is as the young English lord that
Julius discovers the dishonesty of Aus-
tralian society, the wiles of Australian
business and the doubtful capacity of
Australian politics. In some instances the
tale descends from an entertaining level
of sophisticated jeering to the unreality
of overdone fantasy. After draping
Julius over a hotel bar with a police
commissioner, a Cabinet Minister and
other “Guardians of Culture,” the writer
fails to live up to the setting.
Good points will be more readily
appreciated in Hobart and Adelaide
than in Perth, Sydney and Melbourne —
poor Julius is tricked for the last time
before he reaches Tasmania or South
Australia. But trenchant criticism is
bound to greet It Never Fails when it
reaches Australia in December.
LACHIE MCDONALD.
Sutcliffe on
Cricket
Sutcliffe’s For
England and
Yorkshire
(Arnold; Is.),
arriving in Aus-
tralia during the first Test season he has
missed since 1924, is a modest book and
a good one. In it Sutcliffe attempts little ;
merely to express his attitude to the
game, his love for it, a few hints on tem-
perament and his opinions of most of
the great players he has met.
Sutcliffe decided early he was going to
live cricket, worked hard for a trial
with Yorkshire and got it just as the
war ended cricket for the time being.
When that was over he got an early dis-
charge so that he might join the team,
and hasn’t left it since.
In Hobbs, Percy Holmes and Arthur
Mitchell he claims he had the best part-
ners an opening bat could ever have.
Oldfield is “the finest wicketkeeper in
(Continued on page 4.)


“Truth in Advertising” —Business Integrity.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
‘The Senior Store.’
TONY -HORDERNS
• "PEERLESS" SCOOTER
Thi. model has the shock ''absorber • just where
it ought to be—right over the front wheel.
Streamlined frame, 9in. disc wheels with -fin.
rubber tyres. Rubber foot' mat, brake and
stand. At Anthony Horderns’, ........ 14/6
® CANE PRAM
Take Dolly out in this Pram
de Luxe. Strongly made, and
it has rubber-tyred wheels.
Enamelled Cream and Pink;
also Cream and Blue. At
Anthony Horderns’ .. 47/6
USE THE
DEPOSIT PURCHASE
SYSTEM.
~ 7
h
W/A
tel
II
3M
■/'H
• TEDDY BEARS
Always a favourite toy. Teddy Bear
with realistic squeaker. At Anthony
Horderns’ 3/9 and 5/6
With Growlers. Prices: 6/6, 7/6,
10/6, 13/6, 16/6, 18/6, 22/6.
Also soft Kapok-stuffed Bears. At
Anthony Horderns’, 4/3, 5/9, 6/6,
7/6, 10/6, 15/6, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-.
r.
9
? Jx
36
ii
A\\
m
"AX
' 4/ l\\
s 5
v°
A
l
2S
MECCA
16 s
V
o
0
a
ns
©
%
0
@@
©
l®©@©
(*y Q* u>
(o > • }©■—
bSSbF^
5
0
0
'vZ
m
4
oo
0 CARPET SWEEPER
Now she can keep her doll’s
house spick-and-span with one of
these Toy Carpet Sweepers. This
one really worka. At Anthony
Horderns’ 2/9 and 4/9
0 "BIG SHOT" GAME
The “Big Shot” Game, America’3
latest craze. Full of interesting
hazards.
At Anthony Horderns’ 16/6
©NATIVE BEARS
Native Bears. Most life-like pro-
ductions. Various sizes. At
Anthony Horderns’ 3/6
Others in larger sizes, 4/9,
5/9, 6/3, 7/9, 9/6, 12/6,
13/6, 16/6, 19/6, 21/-,
32/6.
9 BOBS SET
Bobs Sets, complete with balls and cue.
Sizes, inches .... 24 27 30
Prices, set 12/6 13/6 15/6
Sizes, inches .... 33 36 42
Prices, set 1 7/6 22/6 25/-
# Toy s —Second
Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs
only.
# "CYCLOPS"
MOTOR TRUCK
Cyclops” Motor Truck for children
4to 8 years. Length 5 1 £in., height
20in. Brake, chain drive and all
accessories. I I in. disc wheels. At
Anthony Horderns* 61/6
TWO SPECIAL CHRISTMAS
ATTRACTIONS FOR THE
CHILDREN.
"The Magic
Snowstorm"
'Wk:
Childrenl YquTl have great
fun in the magic snowstorm
on the way to Santa's Castle.
There are millions of tiny
magic snowflakes everywhere
. . and a real snow man. Santa
has a special parcel for every
girl and boy. He wants to
meet you all !
°o q %q q
Bring the kiddies to see
this jolly pantomime in the
Happiness Theatre. They
will enjoy every moment
of it. There are two per-
formances every day at 11
a.m. and 3 p.m. And on
Friday nights an extra ses-
sion takes place at 6.30
p.m. No charge.
• Happiness Theatre — Fourth Floor.
%
V 0 *
m
• FUR DOGS
He looks just like the
picture. What little
girl or boy wouldn’t be
thrilled to own such a
pet? At Anthony Hor-
derns’, 9/6 and 11/6.
Others, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6,
7/6.
© AMERICAN
TOPSY DOLL
A great American
favourite! The
“Topsy” Doll. She's
black and is nicely
dressed in white
muslin or coloured
materials. At
Anthony Horderns’
4/9.
Others, 6/9
and 16/6
=3
• "MECCANO" SETS
Encourage his creative
faculties. A Meccano Set
will give your boy a
practical introduction to
engineering and
mechanics.
Nos... 000 00 A B
Prices: 4/- 7/- 9/9 14/9
Nos C D E F
Prices: 19/6 29/- 39/- 58/6
Accessory Outfits.
Nos AA BA CA
Prices .... 5/- 5/9 10/9
Nos DA EA FA
Prices.. 10/9 21/6 51/6


the game” ; O’Reilly “a world-beater” ;
McCabe “a player of quite exceptional
ability” ; Jardine “a great cricket captain”
—second only to Fender, though he says
of Vic Richardson “as a captain I put
him in the class into which I put that
genius P. G. H. Fender.” Still, Sut-
cliffe’s enthusiasms are not obtrusive,
except in his praise of Len Hutton, an
18-year-old Yorkshire youngster, “a
good enough batsman at the age of 14
to play for most county sides” and whom
“I shall not be surprised to find attract-
ing as much attention as any batsman,
including the great Don.”
He believes that overprepared wickets
have brought about stodgy batting and a
decline in fast- and spin-bowling. The
“fairest cricket” he has seen has been
on matting wickets in South Africa and
India. He suggests that a little sand
spread on wickets each season would
end leg theory and the need for new
leg-before-wicket rules.
An interesting little book, written, it
seems, in the belief that he would be a
member of the English team,
which could do with him.
J. C. B.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
DAUGHTERS OF FREEDOM
Personal freedom, resulting from the
economic independence that is possible
to the young woman of to-day, carries
with it, inevitably, personal responsibility
for her own happiness as well as for
her material welfare. That, though
naturally she doesn’t say so, is the
premise of Dymphna Cusack’s novel
Jungfrau (The Bulletin, 5s.). The set-
ting is Sydney. The story is of three
girls who maintain their own domestic
establishments, of their relationship to
each other, to life, to men in general,
and Thea’s relationship to one man in
particular. It is successful, and is in the
best tradition of literature, here or else-
where, because its inspiration is the
spectacle of life—not the mere willing-
ness of the public to buy books. It has
a place in what appears to be a budding
literary movement in Australia in that —
like Eric Baume’s Burnt Sugar and Jean
Devanny’s Sugar Heaven —it embodies
an implicit topical comment. It stands
alone in that it is the first Australian
novel to take the liberated young woman
as its theme.
We are given in Jungfrau the artist’s
full image of much that we see about
us in fragments. Eve, Thea, Marc,
Owen Glover, the minor characters —and
the social and domestic settings in which
they are encountered —are understand-
able to anyone with a broad experience
of urban life here to-day. Thea, the spirit
of Youth itself, passionate, romantic,
impractical, eagerly throwing herself,
without armor, on the spearpoint of life,
committed from the beginning to an
experience she may or may not survive.
Marc —Mary really, but nicknamed
after Augustus John’s Marchesa Casati
—is armored with the memory of
wounds that have more or less healed.
She takes life as it comes —and goes—
avoiding the temptation to try to make
fadeless the bright flower of a moment.
Eve —a young doctor of medicine —
appears to be invulnerably clad in her
professional ethics, her religious convic-
tions and her belief positive in the right-
ness of physical chastity.
Though each is a character in her own
right each seems to represent an aspect
of the universal feminine. Thea is the
primal impulse, the thrust of spring.
Eve and Marc are exponents of opposed
philosophies of life, related only through
their individual regard for Thea. Their
imaginative understanding of each other
is part of their antagonism. They have
a maturity of mind to which Thea, of
her nature, can never attain, and be-
cause of that the book seems to be
theirs though the story is hers. Their
attitude toward her is one of protective-
ness, as if each had within her a Thea,
in subjection ; and they are even more
deeply involved in her fate than they
realise until the end.
The story is quite simple: a fresh
young girl’s highly romanticised love for
a man, charming, fiftyish, whose wife is
in Europe on an extended holiday. The
author shows admirable feeling for the
realities in not showing him as neces-
sarily a rake. The acquaintanceship be-
gins at the university, where he is a pro-
fessor and Thea a student, and develops
in the course of occasional meetings in
the city. Thea is the active principle.
It is possible that thei affair springs from
some unrecognised climacteric in her
life. She early gets an intimation that
Glover’s feelings are not as deeply in-
volved as hers, but she plunges on,
apparently in the hope that her love, by
its own intensity, can triumph over facts.
It can’t, and in the end she is either too
fine or too frail to triumph over them
herself.
Glover comes through without a
scratch, at any rate up to the end of
the book, though it is imaginable that
the truth will at length force itself on
him. In shelter behind the conventions
he persuades himself that the affair that
meant so little to him meant as little to
Thea. The youth he has come into con-
tact with is brighter and harder than
the youth he remembers. “No question
of self-reproach on the score of seduc-
tion—more than ready to come half-way,
all of them.” It is at this point that the
significance of the book’s title —a snow-
crowned peak nowadays overrun by
tourists —becomes apparent.
Especially good work occurs in
Jungfrau where part of the action is
presented at a week-end party at Whale
Beach and, again, at the university
gathering where Glover and Thea meet
after Mrs. Glover’s return. Thea’s
pleading with Eve for help and Eve’s
subsequent struggle with herself are well
done. The reflections of the characters
are uniformly good, and good, too, is
the chapter near the close in which
Marc and Eve, both burdened with re-
morse, and with pity and hate for each
other, meet for a final reckoning. Then
there are the little touches that remain
vividly in mind: the likening of Mac-
quarie-street’s low-fronded palms to
green fountains swaying in the wind and
—of another kind —Marc’s observation:
“There are no illegitimate children, only
illegitimate parents.” Though well
rooted in life Jungfrau is not deeply
rooted in Australian earth. The wide
application of its theme possibly prevents
that. On the other hand, its natural
acceptance—without exploitation—of the
Australian urban scene is pleasing. It
is a book not to be missed.
* * * *
THE MILITANT OPTIMIST
It is somewhat of a shock to see the
title The Anatomy of Frustration
(Cresset Press; Angus and Robertson,
Bs. 6d.) over the signature of H. G.
Wells, for he, in his mental vigor and
ceaseless industry, seems to be one of
the least frustrated and inhibited men of
our generation. However, he is not
writing about himself, but about us.
Nor is it a morbid book ; rather a pas-
sionately hopeful one, a cornucopia of
remedies for our ills, public and private.
The Anatomy of Frustration is a sur-
vey of the present and the future from
both the individual and social stand-
points. It begins with one of those
elaborate academic jokes dear to Wells’s
heart. These are not H. G. Wells’s
opinions but those of William Burroughs
Steele, an American, a dilettante of
social philosophy, who, besides 10 pub-
lished books, has left behind a volu-
minous mass of unpublished papers and
notes. Wells is his literary executor, and
the present volume is a precis of Steele’s
vast thesis built on the lines of Burton’s
Anatomy of Melancholy. There is
something to be said for this method
of attack ; it gives Wells a second line
of criticism, allowing him to indicate a
large mass of evidence without dragging
it into court. It tactfully softens down
the summariness of the whole treatment,
and even permits Wells to poke himself
slyly in the ribs now and then.
The thesis of the book is baldly this:
Man is the only animal who realises that
he will die. To escape the painful frus-
tration of this knowledge he has created
innumerable systems of religion and
philosophy. They are all, in one form or
another, attempts to provide for or
prove immortality—and they all fail.
The only adequate escape is into Man ;
that is, into the highest social and indi-
vidual expression of himself.
He believes that there is no sound and
sure merger-immortality, enduring and
practicable and satisfying, for any intelli-
gent human being, except a thoroughgoing
self-identification with the human will and
intelligence considered as a synthesis of the
will-drives and mental-drives of the entire
species.
The conditions of modern life frustrate
him in this attempt.
Wells examines in turn the stumbling-
blocks in the path of this realisation, the
economic system, outworn moral codes,
world disunity and threat of war, an
utterly false system of education. He
throws the whole of modern civilisation
into the melting pot and out of the
steam fashions a brave new world. He
conceives history—and this is synony-
mous with Progress—as a series of New
Beginnings and looks hopefully to the
Next Beginning. It must be founded on
“biological thinking,” on co-operation
on a world basis which will pool human
knowledge and maintain , the World Pax,
on insistence on free speech and on
education remodelled through an “en-
cyclopaedic synthesis.”
The Next Beginning must inevitably be a
world scheme.... an economic-financial-
educational federation of the world.
These ends Wells declares to be attain-
able, and the book ends in a burst of
hope.
We must have courage to be patient
There is a struggling divinity in everyone.
Man persists. Man grows and advances,
and it is his will to grow and advance. We
make a pattern better than we know.
Wells is always good reading, and the
Anatomy of Frustration is a piece of
virtuosity that carries the reader along
with a fine impetus. (While Wells holds
the floor the reader can’t get a word
in edgeways.) It canvasses with un-
failing vivacity a multiplicity of subjects:
Nazism, Fascism, Zionism, love, educa-
tion, suicide, Cromwell’s Ironsides,
Ramsay MacDonald. It has the sharp
and pungent phrase, the salt of wit, as
when he describes John Stuart Mill:
“If he had been a hen he would have
laid a small, very good egg, very care-
fully and precisely about' once a year.”
On the last page you wake up to find
that it hasn’t happened. You have been
living in the latest, the most commodi-
ous of Utopias, complete with all the
latest plumbing fixtures. Unlikely as it
may sound, Wells is the Ruskin of to-
day. His scientific outlook is as nicely
adjusted to our needs and palate as
Ruskin’s didactic outlook was to the
Victorians. Where Ruskin gave us the
good, the true and the beautiful, he gives
us biological thinking, internationalism
and encyclopaedic synthesis.
* * * *
PIGS WITHOUT WINGS
Naomi Mitchison has been a prolific
writer —short stories, novels, plays both
for children and adults, verses, a treatise
on the home.; also she has done some
important editorial jobs. Her work
forms, as it were, an arc. First come
several volumes of short stories and
novels set in the past and simple in
treatment, Cloud Cuckoo Land, Black
Sparta, When the Bough Breaks. This
phase reached its climax in The Corn
King and the Spring Queen, a large
novel presenting a triple world, Sparta
in its last brave flicker, decadent Egypt,
and a crescent barbarian State on the
shores of the Black Sea. The Delicate
Fire, which followed it, a linked sequence
of stories set in ancient Greece, shows
the emergence of anew tendency. A
strand of propaganda in the interests of
an idealised, intellectual communism
runs through it and comes to maturity in
her next book, the. large, avowedly prop-
aganda novel We Have Been Warned:
a survey of social conditions in England
and Russia to-day, with a grim glimpse
of the future.
The Fourth Pig (Constable, 7s. 6d.),
her latest, and the logical end of the
curve, is in the nature of a sample of
all these books and styles. It is a collec-
tion of short stories written in the simple
manner of her earliest work. Some of
them have the names of well-known
fairy tales —“Hansel and Gretel,” “Snow
White.” The namepiece, a single chord
of woe, is paradoxically inspired by the
moving-picture cartoon “Three Little
Pigs.” All are fantastic. The book is
evidently propaganda, though exactly for
what is not so clear. The uncertainty
obviously present in the author’s mind
when she wrote We Have Been Warned
appears to have increased. The stories
paint picture after picture of the times
under the thin disguise of fairy tales.
They describe what everyone knows in
terms of exaggerated simplicity, but
offer no constructive criticism. They are
the more regrettable in the light of
Naomi Mitchison’s earlier work. Their
strongest characteristics are despair
coupled with a nostalgia for a mythical
past.
Typical of the stories is “The Frogs
and the Panthers.” In it, Xanthias, slave
of Bacchos Dionysos, asks for freedom.
He receives it —and dies of it as an un-
employed British workman. Dionysos,
who has become a film star, visits him
when he is dying. He wants to take
revenge on the industrial system that has
killed Xanthias, so he calls on his
ancient magic. He wrecks a brickyard.
Vines grow up through the kilns until
not one brick is left in place and pan-
thers appear in the new jungle ready to
devour the proprietor. But Xanthias’s
mate, Bill, won’t have any of it. “It’s
not English,” he says. “And it won’t
do no good, neither.” Dionysos reluc-
tantly calls off the panthers and Bill
agrees to a purely personal salvation.
He takes Xanthias’s place and goes,
happy but bound, with Dionysos, to a
mystical land in a mythical past. The
allegory is plain, but as a solution it is
extraordinarily unhelpful.
The Fourth Pig raises the'evergreen
question of propaganda and art. The
question is not one of subject-matter but
of attitude and intention. Whatever is
of interest to man is fit raw material
for art, but when an art form is reduced
to an illustration or an apposite anecdote
it naturally and inevitably dies. Art
must be a free and organic growth,
When literature becomes special pleading
it is brought down to the status of an
advertising poster. The tourtn
however, is such an extreme example ot
propaganda writing that has overshot
sca » e , y fajr adduce it
as evidence in the discussion.
* ** *
DprnMMFNnrn
Dymphna Cusack
bulletin) Europe. Robert Brit-
> Daughter.
' Undset (c ' a ’ ssell) No Relreal ,
(H } The Brothers
, j Singer (Putnam); An
ord fa Lif Kar |j Capek (A „ en and
. General : Wonders of the
Reef. T. C. Roughley
Robertson); The Anatomy
' s Frustralion _ H . G. Wells (Cresset
' Sentenced to Adventure. Serge
, H arrap); Rip Tide in the South
Villard Price (Heinemann); Slone
Bushmen of To-day, 1. R. B. Love
' c ’’
F. D. D.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
And Then You Wish : John Van
Druten (Michael Joseph, Ltd. ; Bs. 6d.).
In which a lonely, elderly, stage-struck
woman befriends a struggling young
playwright who, in the hour of his sub-
sequent success, neglects her. A com-
petent stock-pattern story by a novelist
and dramatist who doesn’t seem to have
had much to say since he wrote Young
Woodley.
Far Forest : Francis Brett Young
(Heinemann ; Bs. 6d.). The early chap-
ters descriptive of life among the Staf-
fordshire chain-makers are capital, but
there follows a subsidence into light
romance. There is some good character
work —and some very bad prose.
YOUNGSTERS’ FARE . . .
Little Lass: Mary Garland Bullivant,
illustrated by Frank Hart; and Mr.
Horse’s New Shoes: Margaret Sackville,
illustrated by M. R. Caird (Country
Life ; 7s. 6d. net each). Two children’s
novels, the first the story of an Exmoor
pony, the second a fantasy in which
most of the animals Noah remembered
have a part. Both well told and more
than ordinarily well illustrated.
The Kite: Rex Warner (Basil Black-
well ; 3s. 6d. net). First-rate, adventure
book for older boys and youth, set about
the Mediterranean, with sea fights against
Arab smugglers and suchlike excite-
ments. Exceptionally well written, with
brisk action from the word go.
Picture Book of Aeroplanes (Is. net);
The Favorite Picture Book (Is. 6d. net).
Ward Lock Christmas offerings for the
very wee folk. Plenty of color and
laugh-pictures.
The Wonder Book of How It's Done
(Ward Lock and Co.; ss. net). These
Wonder Books are always good ; infor-
mation sound and treatment entertain-
ing. This year’s, ranging over a field in-
cluding whale- and giraffe-catching,
gathering rubber, making roads, books
and motor-cars, turning out newspapers,
exploring ocean depths and a score other
things, is one of the. best of the series.
Circus Riding: Mary Grant Bruce;
The Secret Island: John F. C. Wester-
man (Ward Lock and Co.; 3s. 6d. net
each). Up to the good standard of the
annual offerings of these accomplished
authors of excellent light adventure fic-
tion for youngsters of from about 10
onwards. The Australian’s circus-life
offering has both boy and girl appeal;
Westerman’s pirates will go down well
with boys.
TRAVEL ...
Gari Gari: H. A. Bernatzik (Con-
stable ; Angus and Robertson ; 10s. 6d.).
Travel among the tribes of the upper
Nile by an Austrian who has a great
liking and respect for primitive man.
The text is only moderately interesting,
but the photographs —116 of them —are
outstanding.
GENERAL . . .
Jubilee and Her Mother: Lorna Lewis
(Hamish Hamilton, Ltd.; ss. net).
Lightly-done “biography” of young Jubi-
lee, first chimpanzee to be born in Lon-
don Zoo, with an extra fine lot of amus-
ing photos. An item for animal lovers,
particularly young ones.
Animal Favorites: D. Seth-Smith and
Erna Pinner (Country Life ; ss. net). Ex-
cellent page-drawings, with accompany-
ing explanatory letterpress descriptive of
30 zoo favorites. The monkeys are gems
of drawing.


A Gift of
This Healing Dual Wave Miniature is
BUILT LIKE A VIOLIN
The perfect gift is one which gives lasting pleasure. The perfect radio
is one which combines reliability with beauty of tone and appearance. And
so, this Christmas, make that “specially important” gift a Healing Golden
Voiced Miniature Receiver.
The name Healing is famed for quality—and for its inclusion of the most
modern in design. In this, the latest addition to the Healing Range, are
found the acoustic properties and beauty of tone of a fine violin—which in
shape and modelling it resembles. There are all the features which have
made Healing the most successful radio of the season, including automatic
volume control, rainbow dial and ferro-dynamic coils.
The price of this remarkable 1937 release, the
447-M 5-valve Dual Wave
Superheterodyne, is only. .
19gns.
Healing Radio
dfgd
fg
E
m
* A
ss 1
<7
iW
K
Cuts, Not Costs,
Mark the Posses-
sion ot Healing Refrigeration.
Electrical refrigeration to-day is not an idea, but a
necessity. Huge cuts in ice-buying costs, safe, capacious
shelves, which enable you to buy meat and vegetables
at quantity prices and store them till used . . . cleanliness
. . . simplicity . . . convenience . . . all those are features
no careful housewife can pass by. Additional is the
electric refrigerator’s hygiene ... it is the only method
of providing your family with absolutely germ-free food.
When you instal refrigeration—choose Healing, the 29
Feature Refrigerator. No other refrigerator offers so
much for the money. None operates so cheaply.
The 29 Feature Refrigerator.
df
• Offering highest-grade plates, over-
size sediment chambers, Port Orford
insulation, reinforced plate-carriers, a
two years’ guarantee and cartoned for
your protection—a Healing battery gives
LASTING POWER. Ask for
price lists, or see the Healing
battery chart at your
nearest garage. Car battery prices
from 3 t' 3
% For comfort and smartness in lounge,
waiting-room or office, nothing approaches
modern steel furniture. Ite resilience brings
new ease and its design a fresh note in
home and business furnishing. Colourings
to match any scheme. Ask for catalogues or call at the
special Healing Steel Furniture Showrooms.
Chairs from *
gd
ENJOY
CHRISTMAS
with the
CHAMPIONS
Jb,
bL v B
Blue, scented gums, sun-kissed beaches, carefree
transport—all for 10/- down and 3/- a week. This
is what a bicycle offers you. And Healing bicycles
offer you more; they give you these joys with least
exertion —wheeling that is easy and a model that
will be the pride of your life—gleaming with beauty—speedi-
designed—quality-built. It is for these reasons that TO-DAY’S
CHAMPIONS choose Healing and why the Healing holds the
majority of the Australian championships. It is the machine
that remains unchallenged in reliability
and mechanical perfection
Prices commence at
£5/19/6
HE
$0
m
UCTS
STOP WHERE YOU
SEE THIS SIGN!
I AUTHORISED DEALER
-JL LISTEN IN to the Healing
Sessions. “millions In the
Making” every Monday at 8 from
3DB with country network. “Magic
Island” every Tuesday and Thursday
at 8-15 from 3 UZ.
Healing Dealerships:
REFRIGERATION: From HEALING’S PTY., LTD.,
261 Swanston Street. Tel.: C 2064; or your district
Healing Dealer.
RADIO: From HEALING’S PTY., LTD.,
Ball & Welch, Oliver J. Nilsen, Sutton’s,
The Myer Emporium, or your district
Healing Dealer.
STEEL FURNITURE: HEALING’S
PTY., LTD., t Special Showrooms,
266 Post Office Place. Tel.: C 2064 ,
BATTERIES: Your local
Healing Garage.
BICYCLES: From HOL-
LAND’S, 241 Eliza- ./
beth St., or your
district Healing
Dealer.
send m e
/ Literature and
the name of the
Healing Dealer near-
est to me.
Healing Refrigerators.
Healing Bicycles.
Healing Golden Voiced Radio.
Healing Batteries.
Healing Furniture.
(Tick product you
and post to A. G.
167-173 Franklin Street,
are interested in
HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne, C. 1.)
WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS IN MARGIN,
ALL HEALING DEALERS ARE EQUIPPED TO GIVE SERVICE WITH THE PRODUCTS THEY
SUPPLY


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
mm
m
■ X~X X"
m
isil
* *7
'V-
- *' «*7 Tix
Wm
CTTSW K 1
Si
**«
11
■-
,; -;X;
. ; ■ "
■ ”
H
M
mm
a
■
'■ V --: . •••*
S.V-iB
mm
g
’wr-M, _
I
: r - ;
:v
4
■ 1
Nf
* V
- n
; :
&
■
w a«
■ I
i
:
Tr
as
f t y?¥&S i ~
wMm
m
m
\
m
m
11'
Nfl
rn
s *iA
i-t s
TrP
Mi
:
Labelling Department—Bottling from One of the Vast Storage Cellars.
'flffvfd lifmofwie tnellcmieMandlxxiq/uet


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.— N0. 2964.
December 2, 1936.
NO MORE WORLDS TO CENSOR!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
•Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
THE CALAMITY AT CANBERRA.
Mr. Menzies sees peril to Parliamentary government
in the prevailing contempt for party politics and
politicians. There is greater peril to it in the sins of
commission and omission of which the inept Adminis-
tration at Canberra has been guilty, and Mr. Menzies
would be the first to recognise the fact had he
remained plain Robert Gordon Menzies, barrister-at-
law. But since he became Attorney-General he has
surrendered to the fatuous complacency that distin-
guishes the Government in its proceedings, and shared
in the strange fatality that dogs those proceedings,
though it has somehow spared the Government —as
yet. And so we see Mr. Menzies committed to causes
which he would have ridiculed had he remained
plain Robert Gordon Menzies, barrister-at-law ; argu-
ing that this or that is white where in other days he
argued that it was black, and losing lawsuit after law-
suit —the Kisch case, the James case, the Goya Henry
case.
Australia has never had a Federal Government
so supremely self-satisfied. The Lyons Government
has drifted into a frame of mind in which, although
almost every major decision it takes is absurd, it
cannot even admit the possibility that it may be
wrong.
At a time when fears of war are in the minds of
men everywhere, this Government embroiled Australia
with Italy, Japan and the United States. And its Prime
Minister rounded off these proceedings by informing
the country—in his fifth year of office—that it had
no army, navy or air force worth talking about: “no
defences at all.”
The Minister of Defence is a gentleman who, of
all the men in a Parliament not ill-supplied with 1914-
1918 warriors, is the least fitted by temperament,
training and knowledge to attend to what should be
the Government’s first duty. Of late he has been
talking mush about “expanding” the shadow of an
army “into seven divisions in war-time,” and has been
tartly reminded by Senator Sampson, a member of
his own party and a veteran of two wars and of the
A.M.F., that in the kind of war for which all the mili-
tary nations are preparing the thing will be impossible
—and would be shockingly wasteful and dangerous
if it were possible. The same Minister has been put
in charge of the negotiations for a modern overseas
air-mail service which have been dragging on for nearly
two years, this though there is a Postmaster-General —
who, incidentally, is also chairman of directors of a
company which has received Post Office contracts. The
Defence Minister’s conduct of the air-mail negotia-
tions has goaded the leading U.A.P. newspaper
into pronouncing it a mixture of “querulous hesi-
tation, delay, bickering and ignorance or indifference,”
a result being that “in Britain, Australian political
prestige is regarded as having gravely declined.”
The quarrel with Italy was settled by the course
of events in Africa and Europe. The quarrels with
Japan and the United States remain. They were
entered upon, according to the Dominions Secretary,
without consultation with his Government and,
according to Mr. Prowse, the Chairman of Com-
mittees, without consultation with the Ministerial
parties. An accommodation with Japan has been dis-
cussed, after a fashion, with the Japanese Consul-
General. There have been no discussions with
the U.S.A. The Government at Canberra even
refused to be represented at an annual Foreign
Trade Convention, to which the Americans have
invited it for two years, although it has a
Trade Commissioner in the U.S.A. with nothing
much to do. Meanwhile, it has proudly produced a
trade agreement with Czechoslovakia, a republic 17
years old which bought in 1934-35 a whole £lB4 worth
of Australian produce other than wool (and its wool
purchases average only £50,000 or so a year), and
which may not be in existence 17 years hence.
On foreign affairs in general, though Australia
was almost in a state of war at the beginning of the
year, and though every month brings developments
which may conceivably involve it in war, the Aus-
tralian people are kept in almost complete ignorance.
Britons are apprised of what is going on, and of
how their Government views the changing scene, by
full-dress debates ; the Australian people, as the “Age”
(U.A.P.) puts it, “are saddled with a Government
which gives neither a lead nor an opportunity” of
learning facts that they have a right to know.
America’s Federal Government has undertaken
the main responsibility for the relief of unemploy-
ment. Except for an occasional futile grant of money,
such as the £150,000 to be expended on Christmas
presents for the unemployed, our “national” Govern-
ment has left all the responsibility to the State Govern-
ments —Governments with puny resources and paro-
chial ideas. Partly for that reason, and partly because
of its inertia in the presence of grave Constitu-
tional weaknesses, the prestige of the Commonwealth
has waned, and Secession is raising its head
again in Westralia. True the Government is about
to seek niggling “amendments,” but it is certain to
be beaten on the marketing referendum, and it is
so universally despised that it may lose the aviation
referendum as well.
And the Government has made Australia the
laughing-stock of the Empire by its handling of the
case of Mrs. Freer. Never before in the history of
any Empire country has a Cabinet Minister refused
admission to a white woman with a passport from the
Government of another Empire country on the ground
that she is “a heartless adventuress,” nor made such
an exhibition of himself when challenged for proofs
of a contemptible charge. The very day after the
Minister publicly branded this woman as an “un-
desirable character” —“on information furnished to
me in confidential communications, the nature and
source of which I do not feel at liberty to disclose” —
he was soliciting “corroboration” from a person who
said he had known a Mrs. Freer in India, and under-
taking not to disclose the name “if any information
which you possess regarding this woman is used.”
On the “sanctions” and trade-war issues, the
Government could claim that all the Great Dailies
were behind it. In the case of Mrs. Freer all the
Great Dailies have deserted it. Its offence is too
rank for even the U.A.P. press to stomach.
• If a change of Government were ever needed in
a country, it is needed in Australia. Unfortunately, it
cannot be brought about at once, for the end-of-the-
session rush is on, and the Government will this week
scramble into recess. But it will presently be the
privilege of the electors of Darling Downs to pass
judgment on the Mrs. Freer affair, the trade wars,
“sanctions,” the air-mail fiasco and the rest of the
follies of this guilty and incapable Administration. It
may not be within their power to force it to go to the
country, but they can force reconstruction on it —by
electing the Labor candidate, Mr. Buchanan.
See-kool 'E No Good.
If, by some miracle, one of our not-so-late head-
hunting tom-tom-wallopers of the Mandated Territory
turns out to be a Dickens and, by another miracle,
gathers enough from the “education” we give him
to write a book, his opus should make the pathos of
Copperfield almost jocular, unless it took another
turn and made the jocularity of Pickwick seem sad.
Biding that event, Fuzzytop is not without a few
understanding champions, one of the doughtiest of
them William C. Groves, 8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne).
After years of observation and research work in and
about the Mandate, this anthropologist has packed
his findings into a brochure published by the Aus-
tralian Council for Educational Research. In the
lump he finds that nine-tenths of the Mandate Admin-
istration’s education attack is dangerously wrong in
principle and lamentably inadequate in application.
He does not put it so bluntly, but that is the rough
sum of it. The cash sum of it is £102,237 spent
between 1922 and 1934 for about as sorry a return
as was ever bought with good money.
Except in an isolated instance or two, and these
not the Administration’s affair nor on lines in accord
with the prevailing education policy, schools and
schooling are utterly alien to native ideas and interests.
They are in principle European ; all right as such, but
hopeless as a means of helping the native to readjust
himself so that he will not be, what he looks like
becoming, a tragic counterpart of our baffled and
broken aborigines.
This observer does not blame the white teachers ;
he himself was one there for years, and had to do
as they have to do. He blames the purposeless system.
To the dusky Copperfields the Administration’s Salem
Houses —sans any of the physical cruelty that Dickens
bludgeoned, but with a psychological brand of their
own —are inexplicable institutions set up by the
Government for it's own mysterious and special pur-
poses. The native does not begin to feel that they
are meant to benefit him. They are merely a puzzling
sort of calabooses, with a bewildering routine and
an incomprehensible purpose.
See-kool was in at one place called at. Save
that he did it without malice or for any other reason
except show, the “educated” native teacher flourished
a big stick in the approved manner of Mr. Creakle,
and worked out the answers to set sums on the board
in a manner peculiarly his own. The pupils whose
answers agreed with his were highly commended,
those who had failed were soundly rated. And every
one of the teacher’s own answers was wrong!
The educational policy of the Administration has
been one of centralisation and of schooling along Euro-
pean lines. It began in 1922 —after the natives had been
head-taxed 10s. each towards footing the bill —with
the assembling in Rabaul of 40 utterly bewildered
little fuzzies, representing a wide range in language,
appearance and shade of color ; dusky little chaps
nabbed from their homes, buffeted about in schooners,
rationed on fine boiled rice in lieu of a chunk of
taro or yam, some of them weeks on the road, all
of them as strange to each other as the whole fantastic
business was strange to them, but, at any rate, got
together for high purpose. The youngest of them
five, the oldest 10, they were shepherded into the
disused military hospital at Kokopo, and see-kool
was in.
In due course three of the 40 qualified as
“educated” native teachers ; some qualified as workers
and were indentured to Europeans and Asiatics. One
reached the giddy heights of a Melbourne education
and is back in his village, unmarried, an alien to his
people, a Kanaka snob and a mischievous one at that.
Some of the small fuzzies —patently weaklings—died
at the school; others were sent home to die, trom
complaints that probably would not have touched
them in their villages. A few have been in the cala-
boose for various offences; and not more than nair
a dozen of them altogether have any real under-
standing of English, “the teaching of which was one
of the main aims of the system.” So much tor
Kokopo! _ . .
The system goes on, endeavoring to inject Euro-
pean cultures into people scarcely one remove from
the Stone Age, like trying to graft a daisy on to a
pandanus. By way of comparison, education as im-
parted by the London Missionary Society to the resi-
dents of a couple of villages. At the Mission House
no sums wrong ; in fact, no sums at all, but a concen-
tration on helping the native, by means and methods
compatible with his own social lore, to readjust him-
self to the violently strange conditions which perforce
civilisation is wishing on to him.
And that simple example represents briefly what
Mr. Groves suggests must replace the present edu-
cational system if our dusky fosterages of New
Guinea and thereabouts are to become a happy,
socially progressive, decent people, “strong in their
attachment to the country that is the natural home
of their race, living a life adjusted to the new situa-
tion and conditions brought about by the European
impact.”
In another way of looking at it, the most urgent
requirement in this mandate of ours is education, not
of the native but of those who control the educating
of him. Lesson l could be on the tremendous differ-
ence between schooling, which is what the native is
having crudely thrust on him at an average cost of
£BOOO a year, and education, which is the moulding
of the individual into the shape of a useful, co-operat-
ing and contented social unit.
Ottawa and Meat.
The first annual report of the Australian Meat Board
is embellished with a foreword by Dr. Page, and there
is an appendix which contains the doctor’s inaugural
speech. The board consists of graziers’ representatives,
who are in the majority, and representatives of
meatworks. This is “producer-control,” and Dr. Page
says it has been “successful in other industries.”
The Meat Board collects a levy on all beef
for export, and out of the proceeds pays for regu-
lation of export and for advertising. It has a secre-
tary, taken from the Commerce Department, and it
is trying to find somebody who will look after the
London end of the business. There has been no
rush of suitable applicants, perhaps because it is
remembered that there was another Meat Board years
ago, and that, after a £2OOO-a-year man had been
appointed, the levy which was to keep the board
going was voted down.
The board thinks Australia’s meat exports are
expanding “in steadily increasing proportions.” Curi-
ously enough, it has been found impossible to fill
the beef quotas which constituted the well-advertised
“triumphs” of Australian Ministers visiting London.
In 8.0. (Before Ottawa) days Australia supplied
7.9 p.c. of Britain’s meat imports. In 1935 the figure
was 12.7 p.c. The increase in bulk —39 p.c. in the
proportion—might reasonably be ascribed to several
causes which had nothing to do with Ottawa, among
them the waning of the depression, natural expansion
of buying power and the improvement in Australian
lamb. Also, the advent of chilled beef from Australia,
export of which was technically impossible 8.0.
But Dr. Page will have none of this:
At the time of the Ottawa conference, Australian
mutton was bringing only 2Jd. per pound, and lamb
sd. per pound. Under the stimulus of Ottawa restric-
tions, prices rose to about 3Jd. for mutton and 7Jd.
for lamb. Frozen-beef prices at the time of Ottawa
were 2Jd. to 3Jd. To-day prices are round 2|d. to 3Jd.
No reference to the fact that Argentine prices have
risen as well, or to the fact that Argentina in 1931-32
supplied 31.8 p.c. of Britain’s meat and in 1934-35
32.2 p.c. Nor any mention of the circumstance that
Empire countries other than Australia and Maoriland
gained. Their proportion of the export trade to
Britain increased 126 p.c. Where they previously
supplied only 2.8 p.c. they now supply 7.4 p.c.
As for foreign countries other than Argentina,
their trade in meat with Britain fell from 44.2 p.c.
to 30.1 p.c. In the case of the Danish bacon and
pork trade, the fall was from 67.4 p.c. to 55.4 p.c.
But foreign countries continue to supply 74.7 p.c. of
the U.K.’s imports of beef, 82.5 p.c. of the bacon and
ham and 52.7 p.c. of the pork.
All the foregoing figures are vouched for by the
board, which recites dolefully that “entrenched foreign
competition” has been only “partly offset by Ottawa
effects,” that wholesale British prices are low and
that there seems to be “little prospect of immediate
improvement.” Also, the board mourns our relatively
inferior standards and insists that chilled-beef quality
is of the highest importance.
There is a great deal to be done with Australian
beef —mutton and lamb are in a different category —
before it can stand on its feet in the world market.
It is useless to attempt to capture the British buyer
without a bulk of high-quality chilled supply. At
present we send abroad only 2.7 p.c. chilled as against
Argentina’s 81.7 p.c.
However, the advent of the Blue Star line and
the gradual modernisation of Australian works by a
staff of men accustomed to Argentine conditions
should give the industry a new chance if growers
co-operate by producing the right kind of beef. That
is immeasurably more important than “producer-
control” along political lines. Most of the big British
meat concerns handle cattle from the selling-yards in
Argentina and Australia to consumers in Wigan and
Crianlarich. They know what they want, and if the
Australian grower can give them what they want
the law of supply and demand will do the rest.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Christmas "'Bulletin. 11
Next issue will be the Christmas issue. As usual, the
size will be enlarged, but not the price. Along with
all the regular features, there will, among other things,
be as fine a lot of short stories as The Bulletin has
published for many years. And everything in the
number will be the work of Australians and Maori-
landers, and will be paid for as original work.
There are publications bearing Australian imprints
and bragging of their prosperity in which nothing
distinctively Australian ever appears. With names
and places altered, they could, without giving the
reader too violent a jolt, be published in any minor
American town, being written in the American
language, and having the inane prattle of Hollywood
and the moron type of American “art” for leading
features. There is a craze for cheap syndicated stuff,
and other publications have surrendered to it. The
Bulletin will not do so. It will remain, as always,
a market for Australian writers and artists. It is well
content with this policy when it considers serials such
as All That Swagger and I Sold My Horses and the
drawings and short stories that will appear in the
Christmas Bulletin.
Mr. Gullett "Says More."
Federal Labor-leader Curtin’s criticism of “the
trade-diversion policy” was based on accurate know-
ledge of trade and tariff matters, and on a lively
understanding of the political dangers involved in
quarrelling with powerful neighbors in troublous
times. He referred principally to the provocative
Japanese prohibitions. Mr. Gullett's “defence” was
concerned mainly with the trade position between
the Commonwealth and the U.S.A.
As for the dispute with Japan, I do not propose to
say more than that the negotiations are still proceeding,
and not without some prospect of an early settlement.
Our emaciated London credit position, largely
a result of previous overpreferences to some sectional
British exporting interests, has been dragged into the
picture by Mr. Gullett to bolster up “trade diver-
sion.” Fruits of Ottawa have been a swollen Federal
Customs revenue and depleted London funds, into
which Japanese trade brought about £10,000,000 in
1935-36.
At the end of a week which brought the news
that Maoriland wool was fetching “the best average
since 1928-29,” Mr. Gullett did “say more.” He
said that “we have offered substantial concessions,”
and that the Japanese Foreign Office spokesman had
issued a statement “contrary to fact,” and that if the
gentleman “persists in this misrepresentation I shall
not hesitate to recommend that the whole corres-
pondence be disclosed.’*
The Government is now turning over in its mind
plans for appointing diplomats. No doubt jolly old
Gullett and jolly old Paterson will be their preceptors.
Mr. Lyons as Jester.
Lord Hartington was the first British Minister to
mention Mr. Gullett’s trade wars. It is interesting to
recall what he said on that occasion:
I regret that the Australian tariff measures have
not met with greater gratitude. Australia, of its own
accord, without being asked, has imposed almost
prohibitive taxes on American and Japanese goods.
It is wonderful that a Government 12,000 miles away
should ask its people to undergo considerable risks
of losses to help a distressed section of the Old Country.
At Canberra last week Lord Hartington was the
Government’s guest at lunch, and Mr. Lyons tossed
at him what Great Dailies were pleased to call a
“jest”:
I am sorry you have been to New Zealand before
coming to Australia, because I thought possibly you
might have rendered a great service to Australia by going
to New Zealand and taking Mrs. Freer back with you.
The report says that “Lord Hartington did not
refer to the remark.” Perhaps he couldn’t do it for
marvelling that a gentleman capable of such a “jest”
should be Prime Minister of a country as large as
the U.S.A. and with a population equal to that of
Sweden.
No "Control" for N.S.W. Chemists.
Mr. Stevens, the borrowing Premier, who yearns to
introduce British capital, especially in the form of
loans to Australian Governments, went along the
other day to “the official opening of the new milk-
distributing depot at Waverley, constructed by Dairy
Farmers,” and praised the “control” system:
Experiences in Sydney for the past few years have
proved the wisdom of “controlling” this industry.
“Control” is administered by a board, which
has power to refuse licenses to dairymen, carters and
shopkeepers alike.
Mr. Stevens did not utter a word about the price
of milk to the consumers, which is 7d. a quart, or the
price to the producers, which, for whole milk, is Is. Id.
a gallon on rail, Sydney. These prices have existed for
nearly five years in good seasons and bad. They have
never varied, though under Melbourne’s control
system there have been repeated variations according
to season,,
Distributing companies like Dairy Farmers sell
to vendors at their depots at Is. sd. a gallon. They
have done famously under “control,” and Dairy
Farmers’ chairman of directors dwelt complacently
on this fact in Mr. Stevens’s presence. He is Mr.
Binks, M.L.C.; the chairman of the other big distri-
buting co., Fresh Food and Ice, is Mr. Playfair,
M.L.C. Both are supporters of the Government.
To the average family man the price of milk
is immeasurably more important than the cost of
chemists’ prescriptions ; but while Mr. Stevens ignores
the one he is dreadfully concerned about the other.
He mentioned it to a deputation of pharmacists, who
implored him to protect their businesses, already
suffering from the effects of chain-store competition
in proprietary lines, from possible extinction by the
setting up of chain-store pharmacies by the Boots
concern. In other words, to extend the blessings of
“control” to them.
“We are asking only for the safeguarding of the
professional side of pharmacy,” said the director of
the Drug Trade Council. He added that there were
1200 of them in N. S. Wales, and that if the Boots
concern established itself on the lines followed in
Britain there would be small hope for them, and
no hope at all for students.
Said Mr. Stevens in reply:
The Government desires that no British organisation
should be encouraged to believe that British capital
and the British entrepreneur are not welcome in Aus-
tralia.
“Encouraged” and “entrepreneur” are odd expres-
sions. They recall Mr. Stevens’s reference to the
Minister whose services he dispensed with—“ Mr.
Weaver has enjoyed poor health for a long time.”
Still, the drift of his observations is plain enough. Mr.
Stevens, like Mr. Lyons—witness the free admission
of 20-p.c.-dividend British cement —is so set on
“tuning-in to Britain” that he will keep on “tuning-in”
even if it means unnecessary competition in a field
thoroughly well tilled by Australians, and the erasing
of many Australians from the industrial map.
Queensland Labor has other views. It has
brought in legislation “to prevent the extension of
company pharmacies.” In introducing the measure,
Mr. Hanlon, the Minister of Health, said:
The bill provides that no more companies can be
formed and operated than are operating in Queensland
to-day. If any company buys a shop, the business must
be carried on in the former name.
The cost of prescriptions is to be referred to a
Commissioner of Prices —Queensland has had one
for many years.
There was some opposition to the measure from
the other side of the House, but it was praised by
Mr. Brand, the C.P. member for Isis. Mr. Brand
said:
I cannot support the contention that the introduction
of capital from outside to engage in this business is
going to be of any service to our country. If the capital
were to be used in the building of a new industry I
should welcome it, but in this case it is not for that
purpose, but rather to exploit an industry and compete
against those who have been carrying on a useful service
to the community.
Mr. Hanlon and Mr. Brand are consistent in
their support for “control.” Mr. Stevens is grossly
inconsistent
Can't See the Trees . . .
Erosion and sand drift are receiving belated Aus-
tralian recognition as the price chalked up by past
overgrazing, deforestation and misguided cultivation.
At the Hume reservoir ceremony Lord Gowrie
pleaded for “intelligent control of the catchment area.”
Victorians going to the “opening” had learned that
day from the report of the Rivers and Water Supply
Commission that “erosion has gradually increased,
imperceptibly at first, but more rapidly later, until
it has become a national danger.”
N. S. Wales is tackling the danger by instructing
farmers in handling soils liable to erosion. Queens-
land’s Minister of Lands and Director of Forests are
touring Canada, U.S.A. and Maoriland “to study
afforestation methods.” In Victoria the Education
Department has appointed a Mallee teacher to lecture
through the State on afforestation and the prevention
of wind and water erosion. And more unoccupied
Crown land in Victoria is to go back to forest areas;
since 1930 nearly 437,000 acres have been transferred
in this way.
Investigation of the Upper Murray and tributaries
above the Hume has convinced Rivers and Water
Supply officers of the urgency for an “assured policy
of catchment preservation.” They suggest regu-
lation of grazing, land settlement, forestry operations
and mining in catchment sections. Members of the
N. S. Wales erosion committee have already been to
Melbourne to suggest Victorian co-operation. Co-
operation could go further.
Australia should plot its land salvation nationally.
The problem is continent-wide, and it would be
better and cheaper to set up an expert central admin-
istration than for each boundary-minded State to
have provincial politicians chasing overseas to
“investigate.”
, Inside Forty Hours.
A U.S.A. railway co. is advertising in Sydney that
its Chicago-San Francisco flier does the 2200-mile
journey in 39| hours.
The “Chi-San” train has a few trifling natural
obstacles to overcome, such as the Rocky Mountains.
The Sydney-Adelaide train has none, though there
are breaks of gauge. Our fastest Government mail
trains take hours to do the journey to Adelaide
(1073 miles). And it is possible to 'travel from Cairns
to Melbourne, almost exactly the same distance
as from Chicago to ’Frisco, in hours between
10 a.m. on Monday and 11.30 a.m. on Friday.
The owners of the Chicago-’Frisco trains have
incentives which Australian transport-strangulation
policies have removed. In the U.S.A. the roads are
free. So is the air; and railway companies have to
compete with road- and air-transport cos. The Grey-
hound line, for instance; its buses run from coast to
coast. Some of them have sleepers.
Australian transport-strangulation departments
are not going to let Greyhound lines arise in this
country. The Sydney concern “takes over” private
buses when the caprice seizes it, and the “anti-
socialist” Government meekly approves.
One More White Elephant.
Dear Bulletin, —The Sydney Government seems
determined to go on with the Sandy Hollow-Maryvale
railway. Its “reasons,” as published, have been torn
to shreds by the Defence Department and its own
Railway Commissioners, and Mr. W. M. Fleming, who
was 18 years member for the district, has denounced
“the proposal to build a line through one of the
roughest parts of the State” as “preposterous.”
The construction bill, passed in 1927, authorises
the expenditure of £1,353,789, exclusive of resump-
tions, 10 p.c. to be allowed in case of emergencies.
But “in no circumstances whatever” may this amount
be “exceeded.”
The Premier stated at Newcastle on November
22 that the cost would be from £2,250,000 to
£2,500,000. Where is the extra money to come from?
From the unemployed-relief fund? And what will
the Auditor-General have to say? —Yours etc., P. H.
Sheahan.
Ordinances.
The manner in which the Federal Government makes
laws for outlying Territories would have pleased Nero
or any other ancient tyrant. In New Guinea and
Papua, as was illustrated when the Shipping Bill was
hurriedly brought, down last February, the Canberra
Minister issues a command that an ordinance be put
through the local sausage mill. The official majority
votes for it to a man.
In respect of the Northern Territory, the publicity
of debate in the local “Parliament” can be avoided,
there being no local Parliament. Hence N.T. ordi-
nances are (to Canberra) bigger and better than New
Guinea ones.
A priceless example is the Bagot Road Board
ordinance (No. 11, 1935). This vests in the Bagot
Road Board from June 13, 1918, all roads within 20
miles of Darwin, but not in the town.
This board consists of Government nominees,
with a civil-servant secretary. It has been acting for
17 years as if it controlled the roads. It levied rates,
proceeds of which were used in paying the civil-secre-
tary’s salary. Ratepayers successfully contested the
right to levy; hence the ordinance. Boards and
Governments must always be right.
Of course, Parliament has power to disallow the
ordinance—technically—but the Government sees to
it that Parliament has little chance of doing this.
Motions for disallowance can be dealt with only on
private members’ days, and these are “so seldom
coming in the long year set” that unless a member
has extraordinary luck he might just as well stay at
home. The member for the Northern Territory gave
notice months ago that he would move for the dis-
allowance of the Bagot Road Board ordinance. In
the present state of affairs he should get his chance
to speak about the time that the Ministry is draw-
ing lots to decide who will have a free trip to the
Golden Gates to hear the Last Trump blown.
State Socialism in Queensland.
From J. A. Fihelly:
I was a member of the Ryan and Theodore Cabinets
(B. 18/11/’36). We were fairly ardent socialists; universal
socialism was the more or less illusory objective we aimed at.
My uncopyrighted opinion is that elective Cabinets can never
make a success of nationalisation or socialism, whether they are
directed by the electors to do the work or they voluntarily
choose to attempt to do it themselves. An elected Cabinet,
employing skilled or technical or trained executive heads, could
conceivably be successful, but then only when our younger
generation from the age of 15 onwards is tutored or reared
in the concept of the new idea.
The State fisheries and butcheries, the cannery and the
produce agency you refer to are as dead as the State cattle
stations. There are some activities, such as sheep or cattle
stations, that I can’t conceive of as being successful under
nationalised or socialised administration. The absence of the
attractive lure of personal gain will account for this.
But there were three sound and profitable State enter-
prises not mentioned in The Bulletin that my modesty insists
upon my dragging in, as I had everything to do with them in
their earlier stages. One was State insurance, covering
all phases of underwriting embarked upon by our (approxi-
mately) 50 private companies that embrace life, fire, marine
and accident business. The insurance venture resulted
in fire-premium rates being immediately and substantially
reduced. Private cos. had no option but to follow the State
office’s example, and this must have resulted in an immense
saving to owners of city buildings and to suburban and
country cottagers. With workers’ compensation insurance the
benefits to the injured were approximately doubled, while
the premium rates were lowered. That the Government
acquired a monopoly of workers’ compensation insurance may
have inflicted a passing hardship upon companies engaged in
that traffic, but the consequential financial benefits or advan-
tages to both insurer and insured must have more than com-
pensated for any temporary setback to the companies.
Another not unimportant aspect of State insurance is
that the office has made available to the Queensland Govern-
ment hundreds of thousands of pounds of its reserves as a
semi-permanent loan without flotation or exchange expenses
and at a reasonable rate of interest.
The second eminently successful State effort was the
establishment of the Public Curator’s office. Built up from
the old minor, moth-eaten Department of Insolvency, Intes-
tacy and Insanity, it now engages in every branch of busi-
ness carried on by our own Australian trustee cos. The
Public Curator, like the Insurance Commissioner, also lends
quite a power of money to the Government, again at a low
rate of interest and without exchange or flotation expenses, and
regardless of whether money is tight or loose in London, or
the Loan Council or Commonwealth Bank Board is suffering
a relapse of acute but maybe sensible non-lending indigestion.
The third item is the Government railway refreshment
rooms. Prior to Labor’s advent, these were let out or leased
to a private tenderer for a comparatively paltry annual sum.
There are more than a score of them, and they have shown
a profit every year from the inception of State control and
management, a much larger profit than ever accrued from the
lessee’s annual rental. Further, I am credibly informed that
they are a great improvement in the general menu provided,
and compare more than favorably with those of other States.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: It was reserved for a U.A.P.
lddy—Mrs. A. K. Goode, of Adelaide—
to say what all the men have been trying
to say about the exclusion of Mrs.
Freer. “Mr. Paterson was too fussy,” the
lady remarked; “if he had had more to
do he wouldn’t have been so fussy about
Mrs. Freer.” Fussy —it’s the exact word.
Pity the Commonwealth Parliament
hasn’t a member of the critical sex to
restrain these enterprising old cow-farmer
Ministers. Still, it’s no fault of Mrs.
Goode’s that she is not in politics. She
once nominated for the Adelaide
Assembly seat as a Liberal. “Agnes
Knight Goode,” mused one of the
Labor members (Digger Bill Denny it
was), gazing at the list of nominations.
“When they’ve finished counting it’ll be
‘Good Night, Agnes.’ ” It was.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The variety of reasons
for suspicion! In the N.S.W. Divorce
Court ’Sonah asked the petitioner what
caused him to suspect that all was not
well between his wife and the laundry-
delivery man, who was cited as co-re.
“He was the only one of the trades-
people my wife paid regularly,” was the
response. Only a few petitions later the
Lothario in the case was a bread-carter.
“My wife never paid anything for her
bread,” said the husband.
jfc
“Foremast”: The old shellback super-
stition that bad luck dogs a ship that
voyages with a corpse on board is to
receive a severe testing this summer in
the Antarctic. While the Number 2
Japanese whaling fleet was at Fremantle
the general manager of the venture died.
It having been his dearest wish that he
should visit the Antarctic—for which he
had organised and worked for years—
his body was taken ashore at Fremantle
and embalmed, then returned to lie in
state in his cabin on the big mother ship.
At the end of the voyage, provided shell-
back superstition proves incorrect, it will
be honorably interred in the land of the
cherry blossom.
* * %
“Likell”: If any of the paragraphists
who have been blaming lighted cigarettes
for the starting of bushfires, the burning of
a church and even the destruction of the
Manly ferry can produce a blaze in grass,
teased bark, thistledown, birds’ nests or
any other vegetable product of an in-
flammable nature by dropping a lighted
cigarette in it, I'll make them a present
of my first Douglas Credit dividend. It
might be done with a contraption made
of pipe tobacco poked into a cylinder of
paper, but with the ordinary garden
variety of cigarette—no! It simply can’t
be done.
“Tristram R.”: Those “War Word”
articles on recent Red Pages impel me to
remark that I’ve never met a British
private who would allow you to call him
a Tommy; he is more than likely to
resent the term. Similarly, if you are
really looking for trouble, call a sailor
Jack. For some reason or other, or per-
haps none at all, he dislikes it. I helped
a chap to his feet outside a Circular
Quay hotel when H.M.S. Hood was in
Sydney—a sailor had knocked him cold.
As he got into a taxi he told me that
he was hanged if he knew how he
offended the bluejacket. Later, over a
brotherly pint, the sailor explained: “Oh,
that bloke? He called me Jack.”
**■ * *
“Verri”: Touching those under-
anaesthetic outbursts (B. 18/11/’36), T
heard a plausible explanation of the ap-
palling language used by a clergyman’s
wife. “Those are the things bottled up
in her brain she knows she must never
say aloud,” said the surgeon, the lady
having indulged in general abuse of
everybody and everything. The doctor
told me later that his next patient, a
brawny wharf-lumper, sang “The Holy
City” in an excellent baritone. He added
that he had never known anyone to
reveal a worth-while secret, though most
patients were obsessed with the idea that
they would make startling revelations re-
garding their private life, and anxiously
inquired afterwards what they had said.
* * * *
“K. 0.”: Cresswell O’Reilly, the Com-
monwealth Film Censor, who seems to
be something of a philologist in his spare
time, has been suggesting seven possible
origins of the slang abbreviation “0.K.”
Personally, I never heard of any but one
of them, the generally accepted render-
ing which O’Reilly summarises thus:
“Orl Korrect” was the way Andrew
Jackson, the illiterate American soldier and
statesman, wrote “All Correct,” sometimes
shortening it to “0.K.”
But hasn’t the Censor got the wrong
President by the ear? Andrew Jackson
"I'm afraid We're out of petrol , ladies."
"Well, We're not GOING to Walk home."
(1829 to 1837) was far from being illiter-
ate. He was a lawyer before he became
a politician and a Judge before he be-
came a soldier. On the other hand,
Andrew Jackson Johnson (1865 to 1869)
had so little schooling that it is recorded
he never learned to write until his wife
taught him in his twentieth year. If
either of these worthies enriched the
language with “0.K.,” it is far more
likely to have been the tailor who suc-
ceeded to the White House on Lincoln’s
death.
t- if if if
“Ardsollus”: “The moind! The
moind!” says Danny Delacy in All
That Swagger. I join issue with the
author on that pronunciation. I heard
the Ennis accent in my cradle; I hear
it still from immigrants; but I have not
yet heard an Irishman from any province
pronounce “i” as “oi ” The homeland is
not called “Oireland,” but—as nearly as
English phonetics will render it —
“Ay-erland.”
* * * *
“Lex”: I repeat that the wife of the
English sovereign is a queen only by
courtesy (B. 25/11 /’36). The case of
William 111. and Mary 11., who were
joint sovereigns, has nothing to do with
the matter. Nor is it since then that' the
Queen Consort has become a Queen
Mother on the death of her husband. It
has always been so. But the husband of
Queen Victoria, had he outlived her,
could not have become the King Father,
for he was never the King Consort. It
was only after a very long struggle that
Victoria succeeded in getting him made
Prince Consort.
* * * *
“Canuck”: “King’s Inns” (B. 4/11/’36),
discussing the passport system, states
that there is no country one can enter
without a passport. He has overlooked
Canada, which does not demand one ;
also it claims the distinction of being
the easiest country in the world to get
out of.
* „* c ,• * . ■ * • _
Monsoon : Smoking during divine
service (B. 25/11/’36) has probably be-
come a recreation of the past—in Aus-
tralia, anyhow. Yet I can recall one in-
stance of a parson announcing that he
had no objection to it, provided it was
confined to the porch. He was a Con-
gregationahst minister at Kalgoorhe, and
the innovation rather popularised his
bethel for a few weeks. Some 10 years
before that I attended a church service
where it was possible to get a drink
without leaving the building. That was
at Mullewa (W.A.). A Presbyterian
divine had come up from Geraldton to
preach the Word and, there being no
tabernacle available, an obliging Bung
had placed a large room at his disposal
and guaranteed him a congregation. A
small space in one corner was curtained
off, and before service the news went
round among the worshippers that a
makeshift bar had been rigged up there
in case thirst should assail anyone before
or during the sermon. As far as I re-
member, there were few who didn’t
avail themselves of the information. It
is to the credit of the parson, particularly
as he was a Scotchman, that, when
apprised of the facts later, he took it in
quite good part.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The most ingenious legal
defence lately heard has been put up in
an Adelaide police court, on a trivial
charge under the Gaming Act just passed.
Counsel argued that S.A. Parliament had
no constitutional power to pass the Act
prolonging its life from three years to
five; consequently, since April, when the
three years ran out, “there has in effect
been no Parliament in existence,” and
hence the Gaming Act —with all other
legislation of this session—is a “nullity.”
The P.M. declined to entertain an argu-
ment so far-reaching in its effects as this
would be.
* * a if
“Historical Bloque”: In the early
days some of the masters of Yankee
whalers were always ready to take on
board runaway convict's from Port Jack-
son or Hobart Town and utilise them
for business purposes. They would land
the fugitives, with provisions to last for
a few months, at some, place where seals
were plentiful and presently return for
the skins. Joseph Pendleton, master of
the American vessel Union, once took
away 12 convicts from Hobart Town,
landing six at King George’s Sound and
six at Kangaroo Island. It was two
years before he returned for the latter
gang, who had by then collected 20,000
sealskins, but, having been reduced to a
diet of seal and fish for over a year,
most of them were in a bad way. It
was the same enterprising Joseph who
landed another crowd at Kangaroo Island
and set them to work boatbuilding from
local timber. The result was a 35-ton
schooner, Independence, the first locally-
constructed craft in what is now South
Australia.
* * * *
“Pegmatite”: I assert emphatically that
the professorial remark “This is a piece
of impertinence” —due to a piece of
brick being submitted for a specimen
was made neither at Sydney nor at Glas-
gow (B. 4/11/ ’36). The scene was the
South Australian School of Mines in
Adelaide over 40 years ago. The one
who made the remark was the late E. F.
Turner, lecturer in mineralogy. To >nstil
the true prospecting spirit into liis
students Turner encouraged thefi?. to
bring him any mineral or rock specimens
which they considered of interest for his
examination and comments. Not only
did he describe the brick “specimen” as
a piece of impertinence, but he hurled
it at the culprit, who had to duck hur
riedly to avoid a visit to the casualty
ward.
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: Being 40-odd inches
round the girth, I am not personally in-
terested in the Spooner v. Sydney’s flapper
press bout on whether or not shorts are
sufficient male covering for surfing. But
I am positive that if Spooner does win
he will indirectly save some bathers from
shark attacks. For it is no fallacy that
sharks will go for anything that gleams
white in the water, and the more of the
body exposed the greater the danger. If
shorts become common I’ll bet a pound
to a gooseberry the number of shark at-
tacks will be doubled.
* * * *
“Anno Dom.”: “S. M. Herald” tells
us in a recent editorial that “the last
person to be touched for the King’s evil
[scrofula] in England was Dr. Johnson,
on whom, as a child
of 2j years, Queen
Anne laid hands in
1712.” I don’t think
that is quite, correct.
Macaulay says John-
son was one of the
last; and in the “Lon-
don Gazette” of
March, 1712, Anne
announced her inten-
tion of “touching pub-
licly” for the future.
The Queen lived for
over two years more,
so the. probability is
that, after the child
Samuel had been
operated on, other
sufferers received a
touch of the royal
fingers and the gold
coin that accom-
panied the ceremony.
The “custom,” accord-
ing to the reference
books, was abolished
by George I. in 1714, though whether
George ever tried his hand at it before
ruling it out is not altogether clear. It
would have become obsolete long before
if Anne had possessed the sound sense
of William 111., who flatly refused to
lend himself to any such foolishness.
* * * *
Tummas Paterson’s correspondent:
The staggering admission that Tummas Pater-
son had applied to Walter Hunt, the actor-r,
for belated information about the morals ot
Mrs. Freer must have staggered two Perth press-
men most. Long ago they conceived the notion
of aiding the drama by running a company ot
their own, and they engaged one headed by
Walter, with a young Maoriland woman for
his leading lady. She was a nice girl with the
makings of a good actress, as she has since
proved in England, but in those days she was
The day she was to arrive in Perth the two
new showmen arranged for her to meet the
local fashionables in the droring-room ot
Perth’s toniest pub. They had a band of young
aristos lining the steps up which she was to
strut in the process of making an effective
entrance. The lady arrived—in a four-wheeler,
from which she descended clutching a metal
hatbox of the kind grandma used to carry.
“Look at her!” groaned one entrepreneur to
the other. “Hatbox, dustcloak and ‘gem hat.
There goes our good dough.”
The joint proprietors and managers tell out
with Hunt. He avenged himself by denounc-
ing them from the footlights before the pianist
let himself go. “Stand up, Slimmings, the
actor-r would shout, advancing in costume from
the wings; “stand-up, Portney!. Then would
follow a full-throated denunciation of each
employer. It was voted novel for a night or
two, but after that it palled, and frost settled
on the show.
JOE’S ASSETS.
“Mr. Lyons has just passed Mr. Deakin’s record
of four years nine months of Prime Ministership.
His length of tenure has only been exceeded by Mr.
Hughes with seven years two months, and Mr.
Bruce with six years nine months.’’
Five years will soon have passed since my
accession
To office, and you’ll note that still I wear
The mild, benignant, childlike, blapd expression
Associated with the native bear.
Some P.M.’s brows get furrowed with resent-
ment —
Not mine. The plump koala in his tree,
Viewed as a type of infinite contentment,
Can show no points to me.
The fairies gave me little worth a deener
(By vulgar reckoning) for party strife;
Even a placid, equable demeanor,
Plus the white flower of a blameless life,
Will hardly help a statesman stay the distance
Unless he knows just how and when and
where
To find and keep the line of least resistance —
Yes, I’ve some asset there!
I have no store of glowing words to speak in,
No cutting logic whereby votes are swung,
And yet I’ve had a longer spin than Deakin
For all his nimble wit and silver tongue.
There’s many a chap, I’m not above agreeing,
Could beat me to a frazzle on the stump,
But few, perhaps, so canny at foreseeing
Which way the cat will jump.
Five years! My prospects of such long endur-
ance,
When I arrived, how many could foretell!
A triumph, surely, this for mild assurance
And doing very little very well.
And if I play my cards with circumspection,
And dexterously trim and prune my views,
Who knows but 1 might win another election
And outstay Bruce and Hughes?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bydand”: As an ex-Gordon High-
lander, I can vouch for the veto by tradi-
tion on “scanties” in Highland regiments ;
the mere fact that they are. not issued
to the men is a plain indication that
they are not intended to be worn. In
my day, in the ’nineties, barrack-room
court-martial awaited the unwary recruit
who attempted anything in the nature of
a truncated nether garment. A well-
made kilt (and regimental kilts are well
made) cannot blow about in such a way
as to cause the wearer any misgiving.
Dancers, part of whose performance
consisted of pirouetting, avoided any pos-
sible contretemps by sewing a piece of
garter elastic inside the pleating, about
an inch up from the edging.
* * * *
“Drifter”: “Oxmead” (B. 18/11/”36)
may be correct about Italians never being
debarred from landing in this country
for ignorance of the English language ;
but if the Customs officers pass them
the Westralian Mining Act doesn’t. I
have often heard Roger McMennemin,
workmen’s inspector for the Murchison
goldfield, applying the English test to
foreign miners. Managers and shift
bosses, far from being ready to admit
the danger of employing a miner who
“no speaka the English,” often had to be
threatened with prosecution under the
Act before suspending those who had
failed to pass after getting underground.
“Kellick”: “Freelance” (B. 18/11/ ’36)
seems to be under the delusion that all
hands stand on deck while the guns on
battleships fire themselves. Actually, 90
p.c. of the ship’s company are either
between decks or locked in almost sound-
proof turrets. The most ever heard in
these compartments —except a clatter of
machinery—is just a muffled boom. In
fact, for men below the waterline, the
only thrill is a sudden lurch at the
moment of firing. To those on top, of
course, it is loud, but in times of peace
it doesn’t last eight hours a day.
“Mako”: I suggest that “Freelance”
and “Kellick,” ;vho have been arguing
about naval gunfire, haven’t heard real
noise yet. It is on record that when
Mt. Tarawera, i\sar Rotorua (M.L.),
erupted in 1886, people watching the in-
ferno from 20 miles away could not hear
each other speak. The din woke sleepers
in Auckland, 160 miles away. That’s
what I call noise.
* * * *
“C. Mac”: Despite the alleged ten-
dency of modern women to hit, and take,
the high spots, it is probably a conser-
vative estimate that nine-tenths of the
23,000,000 gallons of varied sherbets put
away in N. S. Wales for the last re-
corded year was sunk by men. Ditto
the solid sinkings elsewhere in the Com-
monwealth. And that represents only
a fraction of male gulping capacity.
Few of them average less than thrice-
daily intakes of tea or coffee; some
of them are known to absorb soft drinks,
and are even reputed to take water,
mostly diluted. Further, take a walk
along Sydney streets and gaze on the
appalling spectacles of the milk bars.
How often do you see a woman in one
of them, except dishing the stuff out?
The places are almost male preserves, all
ages, from boys to octogenarians, gulp-
ing the juice down like rows of poddies,
In f act >.Lve Y e t to meet a woman who
liked milk, and I’ve met dozens unable
to drink it without nausea. Their repu-
tation for tea-bibbing thrown in, I should
say that > all fluids considered, the thirst-
l £ss sex don’t sink a tenth the quantity
that the male gets away with.
“There y 'are, Dad—told y' nobody dresses for dinner the first night.”
“Regent’s Park”: Lord Hartington,
Parliamentary Under-Sec. for the
Dominions, opening a new monkey circus
at Taronga Park (Sydney), said that no
other zoo in the could compare
with this for outlook and situation.
Which is doubtless true, but when he
went on to say that animals could not
continue in good condition unless they
were happy—hence, that captivity in a
place like this is no hardship—doubts
may intrude. How can one define animal
contentment? You could always get up
an argument with the late David McKee
Wright, of The Bulletin, by suggesting
that keeping wild animals and birds in
“My goodness, it's summer."
captivity, even for the entertainment and
instruction of youth, was either justifi-
able or humane. Many animals may
be just as happy behind bars as they
would be outside —but not all. And I
suggest that to the larger birds, the vul-
tures and eagles, durance can never be-
come endurable. Surely some discrimi-
nation might be made in those matters.
“Hanko”; No doubt a blast of swan-
shot from an o.s. fowling-piece would act
as a discourager against enemy bombers
if (1) its range could be materially in-
creased, and (2) the opposing fliers did
not squeal at its use. Shotguns were
barred in the 1914 outing. The Yanks
tried them, but the Deutschers appealed
to The Hague and had the things ver-
boten; whereupon the scatter-guns were
shipped “way back home,” to be sawn
off for gangsters to toy with. But civil-
ised warfare is like that. You may in-
cinerate an enemy with flammerwerfers
or burn out his lungs with gases, but
you must not fill him with small leaden
pellets—not aloft, at any rate.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I have received several
pamphlets and things from the London
Vegetarian Society since I hazarded a
mild doubt on this page whether a boxer
(say) could fight as well on lettuce and
watercress as on beefsteak and chump
chops. It’s all quite interesting, too, and
if there are thousands or millions of my
fellow-creatures who would rather be
herbivorous than carnivorous or omni-
vorous, heaven forbid that I should try
to interfere with them. Their stock
argument, I gather, to prove why homo
sapiens could develop his thews and
muscles on greenstuff is the gorilla—the
nearest of all the greater apes to man,
who grows biceps on nuts and fruit that
Joe Louis or Camera couldn’t excel.
Still, the gorilla’s range is confined to a
small zone in Africa—the “Du Chaillu”
belt, it is sometimes called. He never
managed to get outside it and to forage
for his tucker from the Equator to the
Poles, which adaptability gave our race
its supremacy. And I can’t help wonder-
ing what the L.V.S. thinks the Australian
abo. could have subsisted on without
flesh. For thousands or tens of thou-
sands of years he had no native animal
to domesticate or milk, no native grain
to grow ; he had to eat meat or die of
hunger. That he should have survived is
surely an argument against the abstract
blessings and virtues of vegetarianism.
* # * *
“Mak": When a Chinaman came be-
fore a Sydney magistrate a few months
ago and the police
described him as
the only indigent
Chow in the city,
it looked like a
first-class tes t i-
monial to the thrift
and industry of his
nation. Vic., with
99 Chows on sus-
tenance, blows out
any such deduc-
tion. Most Aus-
tralian Chinese are
British subjects;
they were here be-
fore Federation or
they were born
here since. But
there are no more
than 3000 in Vic., and one Chow in 30
on the dole is worse than Vic.’s Caucasian
average. The probable reason for the
better showing in the Ma State is that
Sydney’s successful Chinese look after
their poorer brethren better than is the
case elsewhere.
* * * *
“Likell”: When “Lifer” (B. 18/11/’36)
says that (a) no prison cell door ever
opens inwards, ( b ) there are no barred
, windows in any cell except above the
door, and (c) there are no beds in gaol,
then (1) either he has never been in gaol or
(2) his experience has been restricted.
Let him try some of the Victorian gaols
for a change. He will find there barred
windows in cells, doors that open in-
wards and prisoners sleeping, not in ham-
mocks but in ordinary sorts of bunks,
like human beings.
* # * *
T. M. Roy writes:
“Nor’-west” was not quite correct in his account
of the finding of the Southern Cross pearl (B.
7/10/’36), and I think I may claim a more
intimate knowledge of the subject than any of
the later paragraphists. Frank Roy was my
father. He settled at Cossack (W.A.) in the
’sixties, when pearling was done by naked abos.
diving in comparatively shallow water. “Shiner”
Kelly (whose sister I knew well and who often
told the story) was in Government employ at
Lacepede Island, many miles to the north, when
he found the “Cross.” It may have been that
he feared confiscation by those in authority;
anyhow, he sold it quietly to my dad for £lO.
Our family tradition is that it was intact until
one side-pearl became dislodged through being
jolted about with other pearls in a pickle-
bottle.
My father proposed to send it to Singapore
to have it mounted into a brooch for the lady
who later became my mother; but the offer was
refused on the ground of its showiness. Word
of this extraordinary pearl travelled southwards,
with the result that Frank Craig secured it for
£4o—an extra fiver having been included on the
condition that Roy kept quiet about the dis-
lodged pearl, which had been replaced in posi-
tion with a touch of the preparation then used
for sticking tips on billiard cues.
As for this freak gem’s present value, no
one actually knows it; but I remember reading
an article in the “Strand” many years ago,
which was supplemented by a photo, of the
Cross. Its history was traced there and its
value assessed at £30,000.
H* H*
“Harold Hardupp”: A queer sort of
polyglot romance was unearthed in a
Sydney suburban police court the other
day. An Italian woman, who had only
a few words of English, had arrived as
a third-class passenger on a boat, ex-
pecting to be married to a countryman
already established here, but nobody
turned up to meet her. However, a
fellow-passenger, hailing from Yugo-
slavia, also short of English and know-
ing no Italian, offered himself as a sub-
stitute and was accepted. From an ex-
cited flow of mixed language in court
the magistrate ascertained that for eluci-
dation of an English phrase the newly-
weds had applied to some French neigh-
bors, but, understanding very little of
either Italian or Serbian, the French
people had somehow imagined that they
were being insulted, and had decided to
invoke the law. A cop escorted the
aggrieved people to a police station,
where a chamber magistrate, unable to
make head or tale of it, had issued a
summons. The beak who eventually
sorted out the truth had the satisfaction
of seeing all the litigants and their friends
exchanging kisses of friendship in court
as the closing act of the comedy.
NOT CRICKET.
It seems we were mistaken, were we not?
In days the locust leisurely digests,
When, gathered at some green and sunny spot,
We piled in careless heaps our coats and
vests,
Tossed up a coin, hitched belts and spat on
hands,
And took the field, or waited in the shade,
What time our opening batsmen took their
stands
To lay the wood on, or themselves be laid —
It seems it wasn’t cricket that we played.
At least, “Red Ruin” never “stalked” our
crease,
Nor ever “over” there was “purest Bach”;
No fieldsman “conjured shades of Ancient
Greece,”
Nor yet was bowler “coy” nor ’keeper
“stark.”
Nor were we sure, when someone hit a four.
That “Ariel himself had flashed the blade,”
Or that “Pandora’s Box had oped to pour
Its gifts” upon us “in a gold cascade” —
So it was never cricket that we played.
Who thought to write when then a wicket fell
“This latest sign of insecurity”?
Who guessed that “Prospero had cast his spell”
To touch a catch with “dazzling purity”?
And who then thought of leg-before to say •
“The ball rebounded from that curved
fagade”?
Or in an innings lasting half a day
Discerned the “exquisite pattern that he
made”? —
Clearly it wasn’t cricket that we played.
But, then, what was it —billiards, snooker pool,
Bobs, snakes-and-ladders or, by any chance,
Ludo or dominoes? Or did we fool
Ourselves with some religious rustic dance?
At any rate, the “music of the spheres”
Gave to no stroke of ours its “accolade”;
Even the “very gods” withheld their “cheers,”
Perhaps reserving them for this “crusade,”
To mark the merit of these “cavaliers” —
Perhaps to let us know (with pressbox aid)
It clearly was not cricket that we played.
N.S.W.
CHOPIN O'GOOG.


Cj *A\
A
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
20 for 1/6
I0y»r9 d
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
tpi
m
L99'
ENERATION
THIS
RETTE
O F
TTP P-E-D
CORK
THE
POLITICAL POINTS
Australian Portland cement manufac-
turers, who were protected for upwards
of 20 years, are now exposed to com-
petition from great groups of British
cement cos. paying 20 p.c. and expected
to pay 30 p.c. dividends (no Australian
co. has paid more than 10 p.c.; the aver-
age for five years was 6.4 p.c.). Port-
land cement from Britain, now comes in
duty free. Like the agreement with
France, announced last week, this is part
of the. great trade-diversion policy, and
it is expected to divert heaps of trade
from Australia.
Gullett has had the face to assert that
“the trade-diversion policy has been a
great success.” Introducing it on May
22 he said “Exports must pay for im-
ports.” They need to do a lot more —
provide an additional £21,000,000 sterling
to meet the annual overseas interest bill.
N.S.W. figures for four months of the
current financial year show that value
of exports (£11,060,800) failed by
£2,576,600 sterling to reach value of
imports (£13,637,400), the position being
£669,000 worse than at the end of
October, 1935. And if N.S.W. doesn’t
show a substantial balance, it will be all
up with our chance of paying our way
overseas this Coronation year.
Tabling a years-old Tariff Board report
on imports of Oregon, Customs Minister
White announced, amidst jeers, that “the
Government does not intend to carry out
the Tariff Board’s recommendations.”
The yarn in the Prime Minister’s policy
speech was:
The Government’s policy provides for
tariff-making after public inquiry through
the Tariff Board, and not by arbitrary
Ministerial action.
It was repeated last April—trotted out to
justify free admission of 20 p.c.-dividend
British cement.
Smuts, on the appointment as Gover-
nor-General of an Afrikander by adop-
tion : —•
The principle involved is simply the com-
plete equality and eligibility of all subjects
of the King.
An unanswerable statement of the case
for Dominion appointments. The only
position to which subjects of the King
may not legitimately aspire is the Crown
itself.
No ; “Boots, Boots, Boots, Boots” is
not Premier Stevens’s favorite ditty.
Says Sir Edward Harding, Under-
secretary for the Dominions:
In London I have met many of your
leading men, including Mr. Lyons, Mr.
Menzies, Dr. Page, Mr. Thorby, Mr. Casey
and most of the State Premiers. The visits >
of these Ministers are of great value.
To which country?
Tooth's chairman has voiced another
protest against the iniquitous excise on
beer, still Is. 9d. a gallon. It was 2s.
a gallon till the latter part of 1933;
then the 3d. —not enough to add more
than a mouthful to the long-sleever—was
taken off as a great concession, White
declaring that the revenue would suffer
grievously. In point of fact, excise re-
ceipts have gone up from £4,799,000 in
1933-34 to £5,659,600 last year. Tup-
penny postage and the Is. 9d. a gallon
on beer are outrages on the masses, who
suffered most during the depression and
deserve most consideration now.
The Sydney Government’s Transport
Commission is “taking over” a lot more
private bus services. You see, it’s an
antisocialist Government.
Comrades are saying that Curtin is too
fair. He has chosen not to make a party
matter of the Mrs. Freer case, and he
has done everything he could to avoid
embarrassing the trade-war Govern-
ment while it is negotiating with the
Japanese. His chivalry was requited with
the taunt that he was “siding with
Japan,” and the Lawson whom Mac-
quarie sent to Canberra bawled “there
are too many traitors in this House.”
Lawson is, of course., a patriot of purest
ray sere'ne.
Westralian Labor’s Christmas present
to middle-class taxpayers is an emer-
gency-relief-tax increase. Hitherto the
maximum rate has been 9d. in the £ on
£8 a week ; it is to be Is. on £l5 10s.,
stepping up Id. in each 30s. of income
beyond £ll. And there are no conces-
sions to family men. In cases where
weekly pay is received, the tax falls on
gross income, which is clumsy and harsh.
Another five-year-Parliament man has
arisen in Ogilvie, the Tas. Labor Premier.
He has introduced the necessary bill, but
graciously explains that it is not to apply
to the present Parliament, which is on
its last legs. The main “argument” is,
of course, that five-year Parliaments
would ensure continuity of policy ; but
who wants continuity when —
as so often happens —the
policy is dashed bad? The
average elector’s opinion is
that three years is long
enough for most State Parlia-
ments and too dashed long
for some.
“Referring to the proposed admission of racehorses from India, Mr. Hughes śaid: 'It
is difficult to understand members who want people let in and horses kept out.’”
“But, Mr. Hughes, isn’t it just as difficult to understand Ministers who want
horses let in and people kept out?”
Blain, M.H.R., asked the other day
how much tax-money had been shovelled
into holes in the ground in the N.T., and
Minister Paterson seemed almost relieved
to find that the question did not refer
to a “heartless adventuress.” Taxpayers
will not share, his relief, for the answer
was that £44,648 had been “advanced to
goldmining companies.” Golden Dyke
got £12,450; “directors, Hon. Thomas
George Murray and H. W. Lloyd.” On
another Hon. T. G. Murray concern,
Pine Creek Enterprise, £5OOO was be-
stowed. For Eldorado (“directors,
George W. Fuller and Lionel Manchee”)
£SOO(T was found. Samuel Walder, an-
other knight of the U.A.P. Table Round,
is named as director of a company
which was assisted with £5OO.
European and American newspapers
persist in declaring that King Edward
will marry Mrs. Simpson. He cannot
and remain King.
Mrs. Simpson has become so universal
a topic that even “S. M. Herald” now
discusses her. It mentions “the appear-
ance” of her “name in the ‘Court Cir-
cular’ time after time” (Conservative
dailies still exclude it from their “Court
and Personal” columns), and refers to
“the fact that Mrs. Simpson was a mem-
ber of the yachting party on the King’s
Dalmatian cruise” ; also “the fact that
she visited Balmoral on the occa-
sion of the King’s first visit there as
monarch.” It seems likely that the lady
will go travelling again for reasons of
State. She had better keep away from
Australia while Paterson is about.
The Hon. Thomas George Murray,
who seems to have had great good luck
in getting Government money for mining
shows, was the first person elected to the
present N.S.W. Leg. Council —presum-
ably for eminent services rendered to
something or other. He is a “convert”
to the U.A.P. When nominated to the
old Leg. Council in 1921, his label was
Labor.
Items from the file, relating to “Gov-
ernment advances to mining” in the
N.T.:
Alluvial Gold, Ltd.: Directors, F. G.
Pratten, E. H. Pratten and A. P. Penman.
No mine holdings ever registered. Grant,
£299.
North Australia Mines, Ltd.: Directors,
E. R. Hollingdale and Walter Joseph
Murray. No existing mine holdings. Grant,
£966.
Yemelba Holdings, Ltd.: Directors’ names
not available. No holdings registered.
Grant, £7OO.
Tummas Paterson, who knows all there
is to know about Gippsland dairy cows,
is, in effect, Minister for N.T. mining.
In a speech delivered to 2033 delegates
from 160 nationalities, and broadcast to
the 160, Stalin has given his blessing to
the “new Constitution.” This instru-
ment of government is alleged to guaran-
tee “freedom of speech, freedom from
arrest except by warrant, secrecy of the
mails and the right of worship,” none
of which has been enjoyed by the 160
nationalities, though the revolution has
entered upon its twentieth year. “Free-
dom of the press” is a notable omission,
but no doubt newspapers will be free to
publish what Stalin and co. approve.
The promulgation of Red Russia's
grand new democratic Constitution was
made memorable by the shooting of
six Russians for “sabotage.” A Ger-
man engineer was also to have got
a bullet in the back of the head, but the
Nazi Government threatened to break off
diplomatic relations and the Red Gov-
ernment backed down.
There will be sore heads in Macquarie-
Street, Sydney, when 15 Leg. Councillors
are elected by other Leg. Councillors and
all the Assemblymen on December 8.
Fifteen seats are vacant, and there are
32 candidates—ll U.A.Ps. (or Yaps), four
U.C.Ps., 15 A.L.Ps. and two Independent
Alps. The Cockies have a chance of get-
ting their four men in, but 10 or 11 Alps
and six or seven Yaps will be floored.
Already it is feared that James Ryan,
the old Lithgow journalist who is one
of the three unpaid Ministers, will suffer
this fate, which, in his case, will be un-
deserved.
Fellow-Ministers Menzies and Thorby
went to Queensland last week to back
different candidates in the Darling
Downs by-election. Menzies is cham-
pioning Annand (U.A.P.); Thorby,
Fadden (U.C.P.). It will be awkward if
the gentlemen, because of an injudicious
expression or a lapse of memory, turn
on each other, as Thorby turned on
Lyons two years ago.
The most pungent criticism on the
trade-war policy came from Cameron, the
Barker (S.A.) man. He said it was “a
menace to the peace and security of
Australia” and had been improvised by
a Minister “who has faced so many
points of the compass on trade matters
that he finds himself in deep water
whenever he has to justify the policy of
the moment.”
Gullett: Do you say that because I am
in disagreement with you?
Cameron: No; because you are always
disagreeing with yourself.
Game and set to Cameron.
Five candidates are up for Darling
Downs. Annand, Buchanan (Labor) and
Boyce (Conservative) are Toowoomba
men. Fadden is a stranger to the elec-
torate, and there is some ill-feeling about
it among the Cockies. Said one: “The
idea of running an accountant with
northern sugar interests for a wheat-and-
butter constituency in Central Queens-
land ! ”
Another falling-out of friends:
Tas. Premier Ogilvie removed the Hobart
Hospital Board he had inherited from the
Nats, and appointed another, with Father
O’Donnell as chairman. Now he is trying to
remove Father O’Donnell’s board, which had
previously removed the hospital matron and
had in consequence to stand the racket of an
■inquiry which —much to the Premier’s satis-
faction —vindicated Father O’Donnell’s board.
The difficulty about removing Father O’Don-
nell’s board is that the good father won’t go.
At a stormy meeting of the O’Donnell board he
said that the “bill aiming at the removal of this
board was rushed through Parliament with the
most indecent haste, the Minister of Health
(Dr. Gaha) being anxious to get rid of what
he called ‘this turbulent priest.’” He added
that he had “received legal advice that the
Act does not dissolve this board or remove
us,” and suggested that the legal position
would have to be ascertained by Attorney-
General Ogilvie, who is Premier Ogilvie s
brother. The situation is intriguing Tas-
manians, more especially as they don’t quite
understand why Premier Ogilvie and bather
O’Donnell should have fallen out.


* Shust been up t'the fire, Dearie /
* Mother lile drink won'do us
V ARM '/
r
b\g,
Shell/ - fish # "
ft / \\
Itll be a-hic - booful death
w "
Sy<BET AD- EL URE
A RUM STORY.
"After the fire at the Bundaberg distillery, the river was alive with intoxicated fish."


CHRISTMAS
IN SYDNEY!
Make “The Australia” Your Headquarters.
Make “The Australia” your headquarters in Sydney—and be assured
of luxurious comfort —flawless attention to personal preferences.
When you can enjoy “Australia” excellence at moderate cost . . .
why be satisfied with any accommodation of lesser quality"
NEW TARIFF—“ROOM ONLY” RATES.
Single Room - - - - - 10/6 per day
Double Room ..... 20/- per day
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
PERSONAL ITEMS
Queensland has lost a typical bush
sportsman in W. G. Crothers, dead at
65. Born at Maitland (N.S.W.) he gravi-
tated, like a iot of his townsmen, to the
Queensland border country and owned a
prosperous station in Moorenbah, near
Dirranbandi. Racing was his main
hobby; he was a committeeman of the
Q.T.C.
A Maoriland Scot not given to stray-
ing far from home, A. Mclnnes, who
left Auckland an infant of six months,
made his first return visit the other day
at 76, after living all his life within a
few h6urs’ journey of the city. He took
his new experiences with traditional
Scots calm, merely remarking that he
had in imagination pictured the main
street running at right-angles to its actual
position.
At the annual Synod of the Methodist
Church in North Canterbury (Maori-
land) the Rev. A. C. Lawry was the
only survivor of the 19 ministers who
attended the “district meeting” 50 years
ago. In 1886 young Lawry went thither
from Auckland as a probationer, and at
the district meeting held in that year
his uncle, the Rev. J. Aldred, first
Methodist minister in Canterbury, was
the secretary.
Heinrich Berkemeyer, this year's presi-
dent of the Brisbane Turn Verein, has
been long associated with the old Ger-
man Club, which of yore revelled in a
quaint galvanised-iron building at Wool-
loongabba. He was one of its most
active members in the days when Bris-
bane boasted two German newspapers
and the Brisbane “Courier” used to
print a daily market report in German.
When the war happened along he was
acting as club secretary, and it was
largely his known loyalty and good citi-
zenship which persuaded the authorities
to allow the club to stay.
C. T. MARTIN, manager of the Equity
Trustees Co., Melbourne.
Edward Harding, the unobtrusive
Permanent Under-Secretary to the
Dominions Office, now visiting Australia,
knows his British Commonwealth thor-
oughly. Oxford trained him —he took a
brilliant first in classics and was called
to the Bar. He has been in the Colonial
and Dominions offices for 32 years, has
visited most of the territories within their
jurisdiction, was secretary to the
Dominions Royal Commission 1912-17,
assistant secretary to the Imperial War
Conferences and deputy-secretary to the
•Imperial Conferences of 1923 and 1926.
Also, he is a K.C.M.G. and registrar
of the Order of St. Michael and St.
George.
Though director of Vickers, the Union
Bank of Australia and other concerns
with large Commonwealth interests, John
Davidson is now on his first visit to
Australia. Soldiering occupied his early
life. At 24 he won a D.S.O. with the
King’s Royal Rifles in S’Africa. In 1913
he came out of tile Staff College as a
brevet major, and he finished the 1914-18
scrapping, which he plunged into at
Mons, a major-general and K.C.M.G.,
with 11 mentions in dispatches, French
and Belgian decorations and the Ameri-
can distinguished service medal. He
entered the Commons in 1918 and sat
for Fareham division till 1931.
Taking the lift to
The Bulletin’s Macleod
Gallery on the opening
day of Frank Norton’s
exhibition of nautical
paintings, drawings and
etchings, Frith captured
this impression of the
young marine artist, a
20-year-old student of
East Sydney Technical
College. Norton has
been painting ships since
he was in short trousers.
By special permission he
has accompanied naval
cruisers, and some of his
work already hangs in
wardrooms of the Aus-
tralian fleet.
The Chair of Anatomy
at Adelaide University,
vacant since Prof. Wil-
kinson moved to Bris-
bane at the beginning of
the year, is to be filled
by Frank Goldby, who
holds Cambridge degrees
in arts, science and medi-
cine. He is 33, with ex-
perience in London and
Hong Kong, and has
been specially recom-
mended by Charles Mar-
tin, who was in Adel-
aide for two years after
Brailsford Robertson’s
death.
The Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) will miss
Rex Jones, one of the best-known men
on the river. Accidentally drowned last
week, Jones was a Digger, physically a
splendid specimen, a great swimmer and
the father of a fine family of youngsters.
He went to Berowra after the war, lived
on a houseboat, and, beginning a boat-
letting business with half a dozen skiffs,
owned at the end one of the biggest
small-boat houses in Australia. He was
a leader of local-development movements
and friend to the whole district.
Sydney’s fairly numerous band of
reverend patriarchs has lost a member,
87-year-old Fred Binns, who was for 35
years at the Redfern Congregational
Church —a change in city boundaries
made it recently the Chalmers-street
Church. For a while it was also known
as the “Diggers’ Church” or “Repat.
Chapel.” That was when Repat. was
established next door, and Rev. D. F.
Brandt, who had taken over from
Rev. Binns in 1914, kept the church
open all day for the convenience of any
Diggers who felt it would do them good
to see a parson. Commonwealth Parlia-
mentary Librarian Ken Binns is one of
the just-passed patriarch’s four sons,
and a grandson is a rising economist.
Arthur Adrian Turton, newly
appointed to the N.S.W. board of Scot-
tish Union Insurance, took part at 16
in the German New Guinea adventure,
and saw war service until 1918. Asso-
ciated with the Sydney conveyancing firm
that carries his brother’s name, A.A. finds
yachting an effective antidote to the.
things that close association with old
titles and fee simples is likely to bring on.
The council of Vic.’s Building Industry
Congress has chosen a practical presi-
dent in T. A. Pemberton, a past presi-
dent of the Master Builders’ Association.
Pemberton served his apprenticeship at
Beechworth (Vic.), and was five
years in Perth before starting in
Melbourne, where he graduated
from job foreman and timber-
yards manager to building con-
tractor. He is chairman of
directors of the Master Builders’ Insur-
ance Co.
Passed on at 54, C. U. B. Gurnett,
director of the Australian Gas Light Co.,
FRANK NORTON.
Sydney. Originally secretary to the com-
pany, he was a leading light in city
business organisation and a Rotary en-
thusiast, and no business-efficiency enter-
prise lacked an earnest worker while he
was about. He gave a lot of time to
building up an Australian membership
for the Chartered Institute of Secretaries
(Eng.).
J. A. Seitz, 1906 Victorian Rhodes
scholar, becomes Education Director of
his native State after a teaching career
which began at his old school, Scotch
College, Melbourne, on his return from
Oxford 26 years ago. In his youth he
represented Victoria at cricket, for
which he won Melbourne University and
Oxford blues. He also held a football
blue at Melbourne Uni., but to-day a
bit of tennis and occasional golf are his
recreations, when he has time for recrea-
tions. He has been chief inspector of
secondary schools since 1929.
Dubois shows what the original S c ch"
tish version of the Lindsay breed
like. Kenneth Lindsay, Civil Lord ot
the Admiralty, is from Kilmarnock. His
activities are sociological rather than
artistic, so his two literary works Social
An Uncensored LINDSAY.
Progress and Educational Waste and
Eldorado, an Agricultural Settlement —
have not been censored.
A marriage has been arranged:
The engagement of the Duke of Norfolk to
a daughter of Lord Belper shows how things
are changing in England. The duke, who is
28, a fair, good-looking youngster, more like
his mother than like the Norfolks, is Britain’s
premier duke and the chief of the Roman
Catholic nobles of Britain. The Belpers own a
mid-Victorian peerage and are Protestants. The
present lord, who was divorced in 1922 by the
mother (afterwards Countess of Rosebery) of
the bride-to-be, is a Protestant, and his sister
is married to the commandant of the Royal
Army Chaplain’s Department. The Belpers are
a long-lived family: the present baron is the
third in 80 years, and his offspring have an-
other advantage in heredity, since his mother
was one of the Cokes of Leicester, who have
the peerage record for long-distance title-
holding. Between the birth of the first Leices-
ter eari in the present line and the death of
the second, 157 years —from 1752 to 1909 —
elapsed. The present earl, a quiet, white-
moustached old man, astonished an Australian
visitor a few years ago by remarking: “You
know, Australian colonisation owes something
to my grandfather. He led the deputation
asking George 111. to recognise the indepen-
dence of the American colonies, and he was
present at the Privy Council meeting which
approved the settlement of Botany Bay.” If
Coke tradition lives on in the new Norfolk
menage, there will be no fear for the succession.
The second Leicester earl produced 18 children,
of whom the eldest was 49 years older than
the youngest.
“El V.” on a Scottish veteran:
Baronet Fitzroy Maclean, head of Clan Gil-
lean, who died at .101 the other day, had many
connections with Australia. His grandfather
was Macquarie’s friend and n.ear-relation, and
the family longevity came from the Macquarie
blood, which set up many records in the wet,
poor isle of Diva, a few miles from the Clan
Gillean strongholds. The last Macquarie chief-
tain —Governor Lachlan Macquarie’s second
cousin, from whose daughter Sir Fitzroy was
descended —played one of the classic jokes of
the eighteenth century op the British pension
fund. During the American War he took a
commission at 63 as second lieutenant with
Frazer’s regiment, saw two years’ comfortable
service in Canada, and then retired on half-
pay, which he continued to draw for 40 years,
dying at 103. Another cousin of the Governor
survived to 100. Years ago, when I was making
some researches on Macquarie’s life, I had a
long talk with the old man who has just passed
on. He had been acquainted with a number
of people who knew Macquarie intimately and
with one who had been present at the farewell
banquet when Macquarie first went to India.
I showed him a copy of Read’s portrait of
Macquarie—the one with the liver complexion
and the warts —and he was sceptical about the
likeness. He had been told, he said, that Mac-
quarie was dark, big and debonair, with frosted
hair, and not so stiff in manner as in his cor-
respondence. “He was as good as the rest of
them with a bottle, and told a good story.”


-days
aid
to sparkling
HEALTHandJFITNESS
4 Pep’ in a Few Minutes
m
*
UPR?
Ik
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
Gam Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
A
‘lt has
. done me
*- , a lot Of
Ira . good’
<*
UAmA 4
L
s
wm
A-
m
\
ONE
User says:
“I find great
relief in Cream
kjf Yeast; it has
| lone me good
in several
way's. Had —■
been in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
-A.E., Young, N.S.W.
mm '■• <w
m
/ - -X....
% .!
v
mm®
mm
i \
mm
S&Si-K;
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-up known.”
Quick Benefit
—-or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
hea-lth benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP*
TO-DAY —
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep”
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Slbs. to 15lbs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in If minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 _ minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous
A thlctes
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Mead Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free , on request.
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Is Arranging a
10/6 SPECIAL XMAS DINNER 10/6
12.30 till 2.30 p.m.
Which will be a celebration worthy of the occasion, and suggest you make your
Reservations at once. Call, write or ’phone—M46ol.
S. C. SHORT, Manager.
XMAS TEA —A LA CARTE—S.3O p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Consult a Stockbroker or
Bank Manager about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
An investment in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies in the
Commonwealth.
Your funds are protected by the Custodian Trustees:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Union Building, Bond-street, Sydney.
Ask for full particulars from: Any Stockbroker, the Custodian Trustees, or direct from
the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
DIRECTORS:
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager The Trustees, Executors and
Agencv Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Norman L. Cowper, Esq., Solicitor, Messrs. Allen Allen and Hemsley, Sydney.
John A. L Gunn, Esq., F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
Palmer Kent, Esq., Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank of Australasia.
’Phone: 85294. 8-14 Bond Street, Sydney. Box 4028V.V., G.P.0., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the
Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is
known throughout Australia and Maori-
land, where it has been writing policies
for the last 60 years:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
’29 1,480,462 240,043 530,0/3 710,340 6,817,430
Written off premises, £4900 .. .. 6,812,530
To contingency fund, £.7300 . . . . 6,805,230
’3O 1,619,556 262,586 603,373 75.3,597 7,558,827
Written off premises, £49,036.. .. 7,509,791
To contingency fund, £36,777. . . . 7,473,014
’3l 1,701,929 281,880 759,152 660,897 8,133,911
Written off premises, £49,327.. .. 8,084,584
To contingency fund, £29,597.. .. 8,054,987
’32 1,652,870 300.856 784,224 501,790 8,616,777
Written off premises, £24,776.. .. 8,592,001
To contingency fund, £24,776. . . . 8,567,225
’33 1,716,881 304,768 759,425 652,688 9,219,913
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,194,913
To contingency fund, £5OOO . . . . 9,189,913
’34 1,855,750 284,463 789.567 781,720 9,971,633
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 9,976,633
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 9,964,133
To contingency fund, £12,500. . .. 9,951,633
'35 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,619
’36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221. 1,150,744 12,054,363
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’29 2,143,427 662,369 799,008 682,0*3 7,292,567
Written off premises, £5lOO .. .. 7,287,467
To contingency fund, £7700 . . . . 7,279,767
’3O 2,224,967 680,186 901,607 643,174 7,922,941
Written off premises, £50,868.. .. 7,872,073
To contingency fund, £113,151 .. 7,758,922
’3l 2,188,137 661,797 929,514 596,820 8,355,748
Written off premises, £50,673.. .. 8,305,075
To contingency fund, £70,403.. .. 8,234,672
’32 2,108,142'677,116 893,413 537,613 8,772,285
Written off premises, £25.224. . . . 8,747,061
To contingency fund, £25,224.. .. 8,721,837
’33 2,135,912 679,276 743,168 713,468 9,435,305
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,410,305
To contingency fund, £45,000.. .. 9,365,305
’34 2,257,022 677,400 632,513 947,109 10,312,414
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 10,317,414
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 10,304,914
To contingency' fund, £12,500.. .. 10,292,414
’35 2,436,215 709*995 555,123 1,171,097 11,463,511
’3O 2,627,311 755,398 857,907 1,014,006 12,477,517
This one of Australia’s five big mutual
offices celebrates its diamond-jubilee
year (it was formed in December, 1876)
with record figures for new business,
growth of income, increase in funds and
surplus available for distribution among
policy-holders. Furthermore, it exhibits
health in all those matters upon which
the prosperity of a life office depends.
Slump checked progress for a while ; but,
with the improvement in conditions gen-
erally, hardening of-interest rates and re-
lief from inequitable emergency taxa-
tion imposed upon life offices, the out-
look for policy-holders has brightened.
Also, during the five years to the close
of accounts in 1935, their position was
further strengthened by the addition of
£376,528 to the Fidelity and Contin-
gency fund (now £564,499) and by writ-
ing £322,404 off the book value of
premises. That was in addition to
amounts set aside to cover the growth
in Actuarial liabilities under policies and
continue payment of bonuses.
In the Ordinary and Industrial de-
. parfments combined the amount of busi-
ness in force at Sept. 30 was £72,681,629,
up £6,393,276, or more than one and a
half times the previous year’s increase.
Surrenders (£309,960) were down £35,441,
making the contraction on this account
£277,206 over the last four years. The
£15,228,499 of new business written was
£1,438,097 more than was put on the
books in 1935. Including Accident busi-
ness, the spring in the year’s total in-
come (£5,004,191) was £436,259, of
which £331,258 was on account of net
premiums (£3,929,041) and £105,001 in-
terest and rents (£1,075,150). The
£2,194,846 added to the Assurance funds,
raising them to £24,627,353, was £100,705
more than the previous year’s addition,
owing partly to the absence of any
further writing down of the book value
of premises or further provision for
contingencies.
The Life and contingency funds, to-
gether with £85,081 of deposits and
£130,877 earmarked for claims and
other outstanding accounts, were in-
vested in this way:
Public 1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
securities ..£15,116,452 65.2 £16,203,829 63.8
Loans.. .. 5,686,969 24.5 6,477,507 26.5
Freeholds .. 1,960,999 8.5 2,150,294 8.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 405,940 1.8 576,180 2.3
Of the public securities (up £1,087,377)
£5,100,584 is Commonwealth and Maori-
land Government stock, and the balance
local-government and other public-body
securities. Loans were up £790,538 and
freeholds £189,295. The net growth in
the book value of freeholds since ’29 is
£731,169.
The amount available for distribution
among policy-holders was £BlO,lOl, up
£55,726:
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary .. £398,612 £393,592 £437,176 £465,129
Industrial .. 190,059 286,548 317,199 344,972
Total .. £588,671 £680,140 £754,375 £BlO,lOl
After reserving £25,000 in each depart-
ment for contingencies, the balance is
to be distributed in reversionary bonuses,
scale not stated.
In the Ordinary department £9,021,359
(up £1,005,711) of new business was put
on the books. Excluding taxes, exes,
took 17.7 p.c. of the net premiums, in-
cluding consideration for annuities —
there has been little change in this ex-
pense rate over the last half-dozen years.
In the Industrial section £6,207,140 (up
£432,386) of new business was written.
Again excluding taxes, exes, took 34.9
p.c. of the net premiums as against 35.2
p.c. and 35.9 p.c. for the two preceding
terms.
The office assumes that its funds will
turn in only 3 p.c. Actually, the return
on mean funds was £4 11s. sd. last year,
or approximately £4 ss. after deducting
taxes, etc.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1926.. 220,487 11$ p.c.= 145,034 64,670 1,292,321
1927.. 246,359 11$ „ ~145,034 53,583 1,340,063
1928.. 261,516 11$ „ ~145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13$ „ ~177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 183,543 18$ ~,,241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 101,130 7i „ ~ 103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 21 „„ 38,750 43,913 1,398,893
1933.. 96,687 2* „ 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 2$ „„ 38,750 32,480 1,377,172
1935.. 127,751 Nil 61,672 1,443,251
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. =. 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
Main features which characterised opera-
tions and earnings during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts were: (1)
Intensive working of low-grade deposits
by opencutting, (2) substantial reduction
in mining costs, (3) treatment of a record
tonnage of ore, (4) further reduction in
the net cost of producing and realising
copper, notwithstanding lower assay
value of ore treated and higher wages,
and (5) a welcome rise in the price of
copper—the average London price of
electrolytic was £4O 14s. Bd. as against
£33 Bs. 4d. for the previous term, the
equivalents in Australian currency being
£5O 18s. 4d. and £4l 15s. sd. respectively.
Of the 665,422 (up 101,181) tons of
ore treated, about 60 p.c. was won from
opencuts, mostly on the West Lyell and
Prince Lyell leases. Here the ore is
loaded by electric shovels into motor-
lorries for transport to the Royal Tharsis
ore-pass, after passing down which it
is trammed through the North Lyell
tunnel to the mill. The average grade of
ore treated was slightly lower (2.06 p.c.
as against 2.22 p.c. copper in 1935), but
the grade of the concentrates improved
from 24.19 p.c. to 24.93 p.c. copper, and
the ratio of concentration was 13.14 to 1,
compared with 11.59 to 1 in 1935.
Treatment' and recovery figures com-
pare as follows:
IQ9Q IQql IQQE TQQfi
Ore treated (tons) 127,425 283,262 564,241 665,422
Blister produced
(tons) .. .. 7,126 10,115 14,078 12,083
Contents:—
Copper (tons).. 7,060 10,033 13,966* 12,707
Silver (oz.) .. 121,456 155,976 142,642 100,888
Gold (oz.) .. 2,360 3,834 7,532 7,015
* Includes carry-over of 1368 tons from 1934.
Copper recovery was 92.10 p.c. as against
93.96 p.c. in 1935 ; portion of the copper
minerals in the ore from the opencuts is
oxidised and not recoverable by flota-
tion. Of the 13,966 tons of copper pro-
duced in 1935, 1368 tons was made from
concentrates accumulated in the pre-
vious year’s operations. The all-in aver-
age net cost of producing and realising a
ton of copper was £42 14s. 10d., com-
pared with £43 Is. lOd. and £53 for the
two preceding terms. Mining costs alone
were approximately £3 lower at' £23 4s.
Bd. per ton of copper.
Gross earnings (£845,196) were £92,873
better. That includes £70,487 (up
£12,608) from investments, mainly in the
fertiliser industry, which figure in the
books at £1,449,920, or £215,978 less
than their face value. Including £31,908
for prospecting and £44,671 for depre-
ciation, together £76,579 (up £14,907),
shown as written off in the introductory
table, exes. (£657,905) were £28,506
lighter. The amount charged to mining
(£296,524) was down £63,386. Allowing
for minor reserve adjustments, the net
result (£187,199) was £121,120 better at
12 p.c. on capital—7.s p.c. from min-
ing and 4.5 p.c. from investments —as
against 4.2, 0.4 and 3.1 p.c. for the three
preceding years, when the London aver-
age for electrolytic was £33 Bs. 4d., £34
15s. lid. and £36 17s. respectively. Two
6d. divs. were paid during the year, and
Is. 6d. per share (= 15 p.c. p.a.) is to be
sent out on Dec. 21.
The immediate outlook favors a much
better showing at next balance. Accord-
ing to the Copper Institute, world con-
sumption of the metal was running ahead
of production from ore and scrap to the
tune of about 26,000 short tons per
month in July. Since then output of
the chief producers in Chile, Rhodesia
and Belgian Congo has been stepped up.
Still, Spain remains out of the picture
on the supply side, and the London price
of electrolytic has advanced from an
average of £4l Bs. for July to £49 last
week-end.
Because of this and the reduction in
Lyell’s costs, its pound shares have ad-
vanced from 21s. 7d. to 375. in the
market over the last 12 months. The
return at' 375. is 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, and, while prices and costs remain
as they are, better than that is in sight.
During the year a net addition of
1,232,000 tons of low-grade deposits
mainly in the West Lyell and Lyell
Tharsis ground, was made to ore re-
serves :
Assay—
Sil —
Ore, Copper, ver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. oz. oz._
North Lyell . . • • 26,000 4.50 1.00 .015
Lyell Comstock .. 534,000 2-/5 0... • j
Royal Tharsis . . 2,300,000 2.00 0.10
West Lyell— „ nl .
No. 1 Ore-body .. 4,300,000 1.7 o 0.10 .0 5
No. 2 Ore-body . . 230,000 2.00 0.20 .015
Crown Lyell .. .. 201,d00 1.50 0.2 a .010
Lyell Tharsis . . . . 1,000,000 1.20 0.10 .010
Total . . . . 8,825,000 1.90 0.14 .016
The copper content has dropped from
2.05 p.c. to 1.90 p.c.
Finances are comfortable. The year s
growth in the more or less liquid surplus
was £116,134: —•
1925. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Metals . . £212,555 £238,363 £231,168 £265,250
Book debts . . 240,486 34,825 45,589 64,402
Stocks, etc. . . 391,269 170,335 160,782 183,208
Cash. etc. . . 266,685 10,000 47,541
£1,110,986 £453,523 £437,539 £560,461
Liabilities .. 160,625 80,129 77,468 84,256
Surplus . . £950,361 £373,394 £360,071 £476,205
When the books closed 4879 (down 940)
tons of copper was unsold. It was
taken into account at £42 (Aust.) per
ton. The mine figures at £541,123 ;
plant, including hydro-electric equip-
ment, £422,691 ; railways, £213,192.
News, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. Ord. Towards
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1926.. 16,227 4000 8,340 3887 71,598
10 p.c.
1927.. 22,793 4000 13,970 4824 66,774
1928.. 28,091 4000 '18,575 6516 C 1,258
1929.. 29,961 4000 19,686 6275 54,983
2J p.c.
1930.. 12,651 4000 6,824 1827 53,156
1931.. 8,099 4000 Nil 4099 49,057
Capital loss, £2355 .. .. 51,412
Reduction in goodwill, £l5OO . . 49,912
1932.. 6,905 4000 Nil 2905 47,007
Reserves disappear, £942 .. .. 47,949
1933.. 3,790 4000 Nil 48,159
2* p.c.
1934.. 18,096 4000 9,313 4753 43,376
4 p.c.
1935.. 27,040 4000 16,817 6223 37,153
Tax reserve written back, £2300 .. 34,853
7 p.c.
1936.. 34,198 4000 22,073 8125 26,728
•Includes arrears.
The business looks a lot healthier than
it used to look. Recovery in earnings
over the dast three years has been due
partly to the general upward surge of
trade activity, which has meant much so
far as advertising revenue has been con-
cerned, and partly to reorganisation of the
business. The “News” and “Mail,” Adel-
aide, always have been, and still are,
the backbone, of the organisation, which
is linked with the Melbourne “Herald”
people through an exchange of scrip
(150,000 ords.) with the “Advertiser” Co.
The “Daily News,” Perth, to buy which
the co. issued £85,000 of 6 p.c. deben-
tures in 1927, became a drag. Here
losses were eliminated in 1935, when
no deduction from profits earned in
Adelaide was necessary on that account.
Meanwhile, the co. got rid of the re-
maining debentures (£60,500) at a pre-
mium of 1 p.c., mostly by conversion at
par into ord. scrip.
Early in the last term, the Perth busi-
ness was sold at an unstated figure. Book
debts and shares in other cos. —an un-
tidy entry —were down £87,176. This
and the year’s surplus earnings, includ-
ing the allowance for depreciation,
enabled the board to return ss. per
share (£105,108), reducing paid capital
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
ii uuinii!
>
•" in, i. i
-//
i 1
9 J,
1 V
w i Hi i
IMPERIAL
AIRWAYS
EMPIRE ENTERPRISE
Below are extracts from the speech of the
Chairman (The Rt. Hon. Sir Eric Geddes),
at the Annual General Meeting of Imperial
Airways Ltd., on Tuesday, 10 November 1956
The Chairman said:
During the year under review the total traffic carried
on all services was more than double that carried in
the year 1932-33; that is, over 100 per cent, increase
in three years
During the year under review our company and our
subsidiary and associated companies flew . . . over
6,500,000 miles . . . The company and its subsidiaries
-—but excluding associated companies—carried over
68,000 passengers and nearly 1,250 tons of mail,
freight and excess baggage
Despite competition with much more modem craft...
we still carry the bulk of the traffic on all our routes
On the Empire routes, as a whole, we flew over 90 per
cent, more miles than the minimum necessary to earn
our subsidy. . . Empire air mails .. . have risen 78 per
cent, over the previous year ... On the same services ...
our passenger traffic increased by over 26 per cent
We sold over 68 per cent, of the capacity operated
over the whole of the England-India line . . . between
England and Johannesburg . . . over 73 per cent
Increase in frequency over . . . our Empire lines was
carried out without any increase whatever in Govern-
ment subsidy; it synchronized in fact with a decrease
in subsidy which . . . scales down each year
Notwithstanding the greatly increased competition
... on the European routes ... we carried over 11
per cent, more passengers than the previous year
The first of the Empire flying-boats has completed, with
outstanding success, the Air Ministry trials . . . the full
speed trial recorded miles per hour . . . the fastest
flying-boats in the world . . . more silent and much more
comfortable than even the Hannibal or Scipio classes
The principal features of a long term agreement . . .
agreed with the Government. This . . . has for its
foundation . . . the execution of the Government’s
policy to carry the whole of the letter mail within the
Empire by air
His Majesty’s Government has decided to entrust to
our company the development of an air service across
the north Atlantic ... We are about to carry out a
programme of long range flights with a view to
developing the special technique required
A dividend on the ordinary shares of the company of 6%
plus a bonus of 2%, both less tax , were declared as com-
pared with a dividend of 6%, plus a bonus of 1%, both less
tax, for the previous year. The net profit for the year was
£140,705 compared with £133,769 for the previous year
Full report on application to the company
IMPERIAL AIRWAYS LIMITED
Airway Terminus, London, England
Now Open for
Public Subscription
Commonwealth
Loan
Price of Issue £97/10/-
Interest - - 3U%
Yield - - £3/19/4%
Repayable 1951
An attractive Investment for
amounts of £lO and upwards.
There is no sounder security.
Full particulars from:
(1) Any Bank or Savings Bank;
(2) Any Money Order Post
Office; or
(3) Any member of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange.
The LOAN CLOSES not later
than 11th DECEMBER, 1936
COMMONWEALTH TREASURY, *
CANBERRA, F.C.T. TREASURER.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
m
m
m
m
i Lsat ~
A.M.P. Policies encourage
MARRIAGE
MARRIAGE being a social, as well as a romantic,
venture, considerations of finance come into it.
Love is not enough. There must be a home, an
income, and provision for rainy days, and that is why
A.M.P. policies play so large a part in encouraging
marriage, and in helping married couples to acquire a
sense of security.
When (through the foresight of his father) a young
man, at 25 draws £3OO or £5OO from the A.M.P.
marriage is encouraged; oh! definitely encouraged on a
sound basis, and, moreover, if the father of the lass in
the offing has been similarly long-sighted, and the girl
can bring a few hundred pounds into the common
marriage fund, the couple starts on a good financial
basis, and the A.M.P. has done a national good.
A thousand couples a week are married in Australia.
Are you, reader, to be amongst the early venturers? Or
are you already a father of young people for whom you
would like to make the way easier than it was for you?
If you are either, get in touch with the nearest A.M.P.
office and ask that an experienced adviser be sent to you.
You will be wise to do it without delay.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary* General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
to £365,327 in 50,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 315,327 ords.:
1923. 1930. 1935. 1930.
Paid capital.. £151,875 £398,555 £470,435 £365,327
Debentures .. 60,445
Other liabilities 18,243 83,040 45,833 52,207
Freehold premises 39,322 117,351 107,710 107,599
Plant & fittings 53,980 81,542 66,307 60,414
Stocks.. .. 26,109 25,797 11,779 18,785
Book debts,
shares in other
cos., etc. .. 7,082 266,095 312,037 224,861
Cash, etc. . . 4,248 99 99 3,219
On fixed assets £5904 more was written
off than was spent. The amount com-
ing to sundry creditors increased* by
£6374, stocks were up £7006 and cash,
etc., £3120. The year’s reduction in
the more or less liquid surplus (£194,658)
was £83,424.
Advertising and other revenue con-
tinued to expand, and the board figured
net' earnings £7158 better at £34,198, or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
9.5 p.c. on ord. capital as it now stands
as against 5.4 p.c. and 3.7 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was lifted
from 4 p.c. to 7 p.c.
Since the close of accounts, a strike
at the “Barrier Miner,” Broken Hill, has
interfered with earnings there. Still, the
market expects the co. to pay a bit
better than 7 p.c. The ords. at 355. 6d.
return 3.9 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution. At
295. the prefs. return 5.5 p.c. The net
tangible cover is £6 15s. sd. prefs. and
18s. 4d. ords.
Australian Alloy Steel
This five-year-old promises well.
Formed in Sydney in 1931 by J. M.
Deschamps —he introduced the electric
furnace to steel manufacture here, and
was largely responsible for the. forma-
tion of Hadfields (Aus.), Ltd., of which
he used to be managing director —the co.
had to fight to win a market'. Still,
it now has growing connections in
all the Australian States, and its
interests have been extended to Maori-
land by the sale of rights—it holds 5000
f.-p. £1 ords. in Alloy Steel (N.Z.), Ltd.,
formed last year to take over a foundry
business in Christchurch. Also, to sepa-
rate the buying and selling from the
manufacturing side of the business and
further reduce costs, a subsidiary, Aus-
tralian Alloy Steel (Sales), Ltd., was
formed about 18 months ago, and is now
on a profit-earning basis. The parent
owns all the ords., which figure in the
sheet at £5250. Its success has been due
largely to the low cost at which it turns
out high-grade general foundry products
and agricultural implement parts by its
patent gravity die-casting system of
manufacture.
During the last term, sales continued
to expand, and, after providing for de-
preciation, etc., net earnings were £1496
better at £6429, or 11.3 p.c. on
average capital employed. That leaves
out of the reckoning £2928 brokerage,
etc., charged to capital in connection
with new shares issued during the year.
The div. was lifted from 5 p.c. to 8 p.c.
(£4800), and £1928 is to be written off
brokerage, etc., leaving £2734 to carry
forward. Allowing for the writing off,
intangibles total £20,816, leaving net tan-
gibles equal to 15s. 7d. per share.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded the outside debt by
£12,581, an improvement of £16,904 over
the twelvemonth, due mainly to the
introduction of £34,931 of fresh capital:
1934. 1935. 193 C.
Paid capital £39,009 £49,247 £84,178
Debentures 10,105 3,932
Sundry creditors . . .. 8,365 9,078 5,299
Freehold 8,022 9,269 12,707
Plant 27,840 20,822 37,103
Shares other cos. . . . . 0,250 10,250
Work in progress, etc. .. 3,256' 4,422 10,020
Debtors . . . . . . 2,924 3,183 6,928
Cash, etc 182 1,082 926
The new money went mainly into plant
(up £10,341), freehold (up £3438), work
in progress, etc. (up £5604), and debtors’
balances (up £3745). The debenture debt
(£3932 at the previous balance) was wiped
out, and £3779 was clipped off the
amount coming to trade creditors.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
bought Hadfields (Aus.), Ltd., which had
got into a backwash, for approximately
£50,000. In 1927 Hadfields’ assets were
valued at over £200,000, and, it is
claimed, could not be replaced at any-
thing like that figure to-day. To finance
the deal, which will enable the co. to
undertake a much wider range of foundry
work for heavy industries, 60,000 new
£1 shares were offered at par, three for
five.
As for the current term, results will
partly depend upon earnings from the
Hadfield section. Over the last few
weeks, the fully-paid pound shares ad-
vanced from 225. to 265. in the vestibule
—the scrip is not yet listed. After exer-
cising the rights to the new issue, and
allowing for the div., the net cost of the
scrip at 265. is 225. 9d., at which figure
the return is 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Turning over 1,087,000 c.y. of ground
on its Siam property, Ronpibon Tin re-
covered 305.3 tons t. 0., worth £146 9s.
9d. a ton, in the twelve months to June
30. Recovery per yard was 0.631 b. of
76.4 p.c. metallic tin. Net profit moved
up £1927 to £23,587, and dividends £6898
to £23,643 —ss. to the prefs. and 2s. 7|d.
to the ords. A further Is. and 10yd. to
prefs. and ords. respectively will be
handed out on Dec. 17. During the
year the co.’s holdings increased by 44
acres, estimated to contain 3,200,000 c.y.,
averaging 0.641 b. t.o. The ground is a
thick, clayey wash, of a dredging depth
of 60ft. Alterations to the dredge, which
has been fitted with a new bucket-band,
have been made to increase its digging
depth. Paid capital is £248,750 in 50,000
£2 5 p.c. cum. par. prefs. fully paid and
85,000 £2 ords. called to 355. When the
books closed current assets were worth
£17,562 more than the amount coming to
outsiders.
* * * *
“O.B.”: A year ago shareholders in
Lady Shenton (W.A.) were given to un-
derstand that they were interested in a
bonanza. The other day they were told
at a dismal, but at times unruly, roll-up
that ore reserves and values were only a
fraction of what they had been previously
thought to be. Scripholders were urged
to forget all about past glowing estimates
and reports, and realise that the best that
could be hoped for was that the mine
,would respond to development. The
Bulletin had something to say about the
Lady Shenton when it was resuscitated.
Perhaps now a Parliamentary select com-
mittee ought to have something to say.
* * * *
South Kalgurli is likely to cease ex-
tracting ore from the Croesus Prop, block
early in the new year, owing to the grade
being too low to mine and mill at a
profit. The co. has been working the
property for several years on a profit-
sharing basis with North Kalgurli, Ltd.,
which owns it. The bulk of South Kal-
gurli’s gold is extracted from the South
Kalgurli and Hainault blocks, which
adjoin and are situated some distance
south of the Croesus Prop. Combined
ore reserves in these two blocks are equal
to three years’ supply for the mill at the
present rate of output.
*-- * * #
Paringa (W.A.) reckons it has 179,000
tons of proved and partly developed ore,
worth in the aggregate £354,000-odd on
the basis of a 90 p.c. gold extraction. In-
stallation of a fair-sized treatment plant
later on is spoken of. Meanwhile the
co. claims to be steadily increasing the
tonnage in sight. Doubts are whether
calculations concerning the gold content
of the ore will come up to expectations.
* * * *
Norseman Gold Mine’s new cyanide
plant was given a vice-regal kick-off by
Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell the other day. Be-
sides treatment of current residues, re-
treatment of big piles of accumulated
sands and slimes is contemplated. Co.
recently crushed 3000 tons of ore from
its latest acquisition, the Iron King, and
the return gave it a pleasant surprise.
Quarterly divs. of Is. are now talked of.
* * * *
Two old-stagers on Westralia’s Golden
Mile, Great Boulder and Boulder
Perseverance, continue to produce the
yellow metal in large quantities. Years
ago both were said to be not long for
this world, but that was before the big
jump in the price of gold. Last month
Boulder crushings yielded £36,000 and
Boulder Perseverance’s £29,255 (Aust.).
Together the two cos. have paid millions
of pounds in divs., and there is a chance
of millions more, being distributed.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) put up a record
for itself in October for tonnage treated,
value of gold won, and profit earned.
Shareholders will receive an interim div.
of 9d. on Dec. 28, and, on present
returns, should get a final for the year of
Is. next June. Despite a substantial in-
crease in output, the mine still keeps four
years or more ahead of the mill.
:ft * * *
Commonwealth Mining and Finance’s
second and latest annual balance sheet
shows assets totalling £1,285,962, of
which £295,951 is cash. The purchase of
Yellowdine and advances in that con-
nection total £75,053; investments in
other subsidiaries and advances thereto
amount to £477,577. Other investments,
not specified, cost £369,551; at May 30
their market price was £197,956.
Acquisition of an interest in Halley’s
Comet, Marble Bar, since the balance
sheet was drawn up has reduced cash a
little.
* ■ * * *
Mt. Magnet, Ltd., formed in London
in 1933 to acquire Hill 60 mine, Mt.
Magnet (W.A.), is paying a year’s interest,
less English tax of 4s. 9d. in the £, on
its 7 p.c. cumulative prefs. The co. has
lately been treating about 5000 tons a
month and making a working profit of
£4500 or thereabouts. The grade of the
ore mined is a shade under sdwt. So
far holders of ords. have not collected a
div.
* * *
A fuss is being made by some West-
ralian shareholders about the way Con-
solidated Gold Areas (it used to be the
old White Hope) is being worked. The
mine, at Hampton Plains (W.A.), is
operated by an Adelaide no-liability co.,
which is accused of dawdling on the road
to production. Information is being
sought as to the approximate quantity of
ore in sight, grade and date when treat-
ment is expected to commence.
jjc * * *
Yarns about “big” money coming from
the Rand to further open up the Mount
mines at Widgiemooltha (W.A.) have
been heard lately in Perth. The show
is one of several in a . district notorious
for squibs. Hopes are, of course, that
it is one of the properties whose value
has unaccountably been overlooked in
the past.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.H.: You will cause less trouble to yourself
and the co. by returning scrip asked for
MK • See B. 18/ 11/’36... .A.M.McD. :
Reasonable spec. Much depends; upon how
long price-cutting continues.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* 4= .. . * *
DAVIES ■ & COLLISON,- Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
*.* • * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc " For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney. —Advt.


wm - i *
m .
m
|f»
' ■ - : : ’•
Vtv
■ v,-...
m H
HHi
IfcSi mmsUM
ms
■■
' Sm,
■ ■
m
m
m
A'.'-*
gM
an
m
H
.
Wm
i
I' : ;
H
IK
H
s./,
9h i
■
mm
m b
■mmm \
y ■■■:':■:■
m
mm
THE
6500
5 VALVE A.C.
OPERATED—FOR
BROADCAST
RECEPTION.
WITH
“TWILIGHT”
DIAL
23 gns.
117ITH utmost pride Philips offer the 6500—a
* * Radioplayer designed for complete enjoyment
of all Australian broadcast transmissions. One of
the famous Philips range of receivers, it is, in
common with them all, backed by the development,
research, and manufacturing superiority of the
World’s Largest Radio Manufacturers.
The 6500 is equipped with the famous Philips
Metal Clad Valves, including the Octode, and
features the amazing “Twilight” Dial and Auto-
matic Volume Control.
OTHER RADIOPLAYER MODELS .
BROADCAST MODELS.
A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6506, 5 Valves, 15 gns.
Model 6507, 5 Valves, 19 gns.
WORLD-WIDE MODELS.
A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6608, 6 Valves, 27 gns.
Model 7609, 7 Valves, 34 gns.
BATTERY-OPERATED RECEIVERS.
Model 6517, for Broadcast Reception, 5 Valves .
Model 6612, for World-wide Reception, 6 Valves
27 gns.
37 gns.
TERMS AVAILABLE.
PHILIPS^Mwst
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS PHILIPS LAMPS


ABORIGINALITIES
“Kriz”: Sailing out of Broome to the
pearling “grounds” we passed a lugger
making in with the nastiest-looking lot
of cutthroats aboard that one could ever
wish to see. The only one approaching
the appearance of a civilised being was
a brown-skinned small man at the tiller
aft; the rest were loin-clothed, fierce-
looking Binghis. Back in Broome later
I met the skipper of the craft and crew.
He was one of the reverend fathers
from the Spanish mission at Drysdale
River, and the “ferocious Binghis” were
all “boys” from the Drysdale River
country. Clothed in “civilised” garb
they smilingly spoke fairly good English
and in every way were undoubtedly a
credit to the fathers of one of the most
isolated missions in Australia.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: What must be Aus-
tralia’s oldest horse, a half-draught called
Dingo, works on a milk round at St.
Kilda, Victoria. He is 57, and is
reckoned to have travelled 50,000 miles
with the milk-cart. The previous holder
of the longevity record that I know of
was a mare called Oleander, a camp-
drafter, who passed the half-century in
toothless retirement on the Valley of
Lagoons station (Q.). At present there
are several venerable mokes, two of them
ponies, in N. S. Wales and Queensland
that are half-way or more between 40
and 50 years. Is the prad’s lease of life
extending as is man’s?
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Dad thought it was
time he took a hand in Dave’s love
affairs. “Listen here, lad,” he said;
“there’s no sense in you runnin’ round
with them flash flappers that' haven’t got
a penny. Why don’t you make up to
old Green’s daughter? You’d stand a
good chance, . an’ she’s got pots of
money.” “But,” Dave protested, “she’s
lame—been lame ever since she was a
kid.” The old chap glared at him.
“Dammitall, man,” he roared, “you
don’t want her for racin’ purposes, do
you?”
* r|s %
“Rus”: Add to the roll of back-o’-
Bourke celebrities Barefoot Harry, who
lived between Bourke and the border
gate at Barringun. Long divorced
from the boot habit, Harry could stalk
with impunity over Bathurst burr, bindi-
eyes and broken glass, and would non-
chalantly strike matches on the bare soles
of his feet. So could Kazan Champion,
“the wild man from Charleville,” as ex-
ploited at Brisbane shows. After his
long years of hermit life in the Car-
narvon Ranges Kazan sported a shaggy
mane several feet in length. But the
daddy of all western characters was the
Possum of Charleville. Possum derived
his soubriquet from his penchant for
arboreal domicile; after absorbing as
much hops as he could hold, he would
ascend one or other of the town’s stately
cedar trees to sleep it off. The spectacle
of Possum stamping on the fingers of
would-be police arresters who had gone
after him with ladders was a perennial
delight to the westerners.
He i|s % H*
“Mornie”: “Falcon” (B. 11/11/ ’36) is
a bit fanciful in his idea that sheep on
a M.L. aerodrome have learned that a
’plane takes off into the wind and run
down wind to allow it clear passage
when they hear the motors. Sheep will
invariably run down wind when startled,
reacting to age-old instinct. That way
they maintain the best position from
which to scent or hear an attacker. All
domestic animals turn and gaze up wind
when unable to locate a sound which
has alarmed them.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: More birds are to be
seen within the precincts of our cities
than the average bushdweller could be-
lieve. From my bed in hospital in 15
months I’ve seen or heard (seen in all
but a few cases) kookaburra, crow,
peewee, koel (Flinders cuckoo), pallid
cuckoo, fantailed cuckoo, bronze cuckoo,
whistling eagle, black-throated butcher-
bird, fig-eater, Pacific gull (scores of
these), diamond bird (chip-chip), wel-
come swallow, currawong, channel-billed
cuckoo, peaceful dove, morepork, wag-
tail and the city-loving sparrow, Indian
dove and starling. Flocks of crows
often make corroboree over the river
close 'by, and the. laughing jack seldom
“Wonder why the silly cow's got his gamp up? 'Tain't rainin'."
fails to announce the arrival of another
day. I had not seen very many more
varieties from the door of my bush home.
* * * *
“Cowry”: The more a man studies
reef life the more is he baffled by its
mystery. There is only one thing upon
which he can stand pat —the intense
cruelty of it. Drift over the reef on a
calm day, or use a waterscope if the
surface is rippled. When you get the
right focus you see gorgeous colorings
of coral, things that look like nothing,
and nothing that tries to appear as if it’s
something. You see fragments of liv-
ing rainbows that are small fish on the
job of life ; other objects that look like
various sorts of dreams come true.
When you take a tumble to it all you
realise that everything there is killing and
eating some other thing. Small fish are
being chased by bigger fish ; anemones
are lying in wait for something to tread
on them ; occupants of shells are grop-
ing at the bottom, picking up minute
forms of life—everything is eating, and
every mouthful means the death of
something. Beautiful? Undoubtedly—
to the eye.
* t- * ■ *
“Murrungurry”: Binghi has adopted
the hairwave with enthusiasm, and by
some process of his own makes the waves
stay put. The dandy sits on a log, while
the camp barber attends to him with
three sticks —two green and a lighted
dry one. The thatch is divided into rows,
after being combed with a fishbone, and
each row is gripped in turn with the
green sticks, and evenly singed with the
firestick. The operation leaves the top
of the hair a brownish color —very
stylish, giving the head the appearance
of a huge tousled coconut. Many a
northern white gets a hair singe in the
same way from an abo. barber.
# * * *
“Sea Grape”: As one of those “rare”
women who rode horses regularly in the
old days I can tell “F.Y.7” (B. 4/11/’36)
that his statement that it was prepos-
terous to say women rode on men’s
saddles is ridiculous. I took to horse-
back at the age of six, and from then
until I was 18 used a man’s saddle ex-
clusively. Nor was mine a singular in-
stance. With very few exceptions, all
outback women did likewise. It was a
matter of needs must or walk, so we
took what the gods provided and sat
them sideways, keeping our positions by
balance. And side-saddles were cruel;
having assisted my veterinary father to
dress scores of piteously wrung withers
and festering girth-galls I can. testify to
that. As to weight, I am, happily, un-
acquainted with the modern side-saddle,
but in my time, what with web girths,
leather ditto, crupper and surcingle, the
complete contraption formed a nice little
steadier of well over 201 b. Add a 10-
or 12-stone lump of femininity—the
majority were bad riders —and you had
a sight to make the angels weep.
“Poley”: My condemnation of the
side-saddle was based on a lifetime
experience among horses and the fellow
feeling I have come to have for them.
My mother was a noted horsewoman
who always rode side-saddle, and she
carried me on the saddle with her up
to the time which forms my earliest
memories. My wife has trophies won at
shows as a horsewoman—she used to
ride side-saddle. Were my mother alive
I am sure she would endorse all I have
written in condemnation, and my wife,
who has been married to me long enough
to agree with darned little of what I
say, is, for once, unanimous with me in
saying that anyone who praises the side-
saddle has little feeling for the com-
fort of horses.
❖
“Ornis”: Trust nesting birds to know
when the going’s good. When one of
the striking miners who have been out
for some months at Aberdare (N.S.W.)
returned to the mine changing-room to
get his working clothes, he found his hat
occupied by a bird’s nest, while two
others filled his boots. The families
represent the mine’s sole output since
the strike started.
# * * *
“Paul C.”: Somewhat similar to the
case cited by “Molar” (B. 11/11/ ’36) was
the death of the Epsom winner Famous.
His yard was built specially for safety,
but someone had picked up a piece of
wire and twisted it over a round rail
of the yard, from which it hung in a
loop. The stallion, making an open-
mouthed rush at a saddle-horse that a
boy had left outside the yard, hooked
his lower teeth in the wire. The jaw
was wrenched back, the stallion’s eyes
being forced out of the sockets. He
died a few days later.
* * * *
“Phoca”: Taronga Zoo again got
among the records when the Lord Privy
Seal, or whoever it is looks after the
zoo’s sleekest inhabitants, found his
charges had increased by one. The
birth of a baby seal in captivity is a
rare event, and every precaution has been
taken to give the youngster a chance.
Papa seal, who notoriously objects to
families, has been fenced off where he
can do no harm, and the youngster has
been put in an enclosure with its mother
—lest it should drown itself! Baby seals
have to be taught to swim and are not
much good at it until they are some
months old.
ijt * * *
“James W.”: Final edition on centi-
pedes. They certainly are not innocu-
ous. They are members of the order
Chilopoda of the species Myriapocla,
and some varieties are as venomous as
anything that crawls. The commonest
found in Australia is the red, flat-bodied
type, of which specimens 12in. long have
been caught. One of that size carries
enough poison to kill the strongest man ;
numerous fatalities have been recorded
against them. Centipedes never bite;
their fearsome mandibles are used exclu-
sively as eating tools. Two thoracic legs
serve out the poison. Also, fellow-bug-
hunters, Lithobius malaius, the red cen-
tipede of Burma, runs a close second
to that country’s blue scorpion, the most
deadly thing that crawls.
* * * *
“L.W.”: Lung-dusting jobs? Bakers
get flour on their lungs and are being
constantly incapacitated thereby; but I
mixed concrete by hand for months and
never heard of that fine but gritty powder
affecting anyone’s lungs. What it did
affect was our razors. Perspiration and
cement combined to give us reinforced
concrete beards that ruined the toughest
blades. Barbers positively refused to
“Murgiemurgie”: Not all N.T. buffalo-
shooters work from the back of a horse ;
G. H. Sunter hunted on the Adelaide
River plains for many years per boot.
Incidentally, the champion of all buff.-
shooters was Joe Cooper, “king” of Mel-
ville Island ; he bagged 27,000. Ben
Martin dropped for keeps no fewer than
48 in a single gallop, which is the record.
Martin told me that “Banjo” Paterson
was in the camp and can vouch for the
bag.
* * * *
“Palmdale”: Snowy and I rode across
the bush one night to Simpson’s for our
weekly social call. We got to the home-
stead gate and were about to enter when
we heard a man crying up in the big
shed. Of all the soul-tearing, heart-
rending sobs I ever heard, those were
the worst. Snow and I waited for a while,
not game to go in, and imagining the
wildest things, when suddenly the lan-
guage came. Smooth as oil, and pure
Australian, it flowed for 10 minutes,
making Snow and I feel comfortable once
more. The horses had got in and eaten
Simpson’s autumn seed-spuds!
* # *
“Rookery Nook”: “MacDhui,” who
lately extolled crow as a favorite British
dish in season, has got his fowls mixed.
The bird he has in mind is the rook,
very different from the carrion-eating
crow. Rooks are, or used to be, shot in
spring, only the young birds which had
just climbed out of the nests being taken.
A pea-rifle, known in England as a rook
rifle, was the weapon. With a high wind
blowing and the young birds swaying
in the tops of the tall elms in which
rooks nest in colonies, they took a bit
of hitting. The youngsters, fattened by
their parents, were usually served as pie
and were the equal of any squab.
THE DANCING DAYS.
“I’m not a bloke,” the old man said, “to sneer
an’ scoff at modern ways
Or bore a crowd of youngsters stiff by yearnin’
for the good old days.
But now and then I find it hard to keep from
puttin’ in me oar
When these young cockerels crow about their
doin’s on the dancin’ floor.
This fox-trot stuff—a walkin’ match, that’s how
I’d term the dancin’ now —
They shove their partners round the hall jist
like you'd push a garden plough.”
The old man paused; his eye grew bright; the
warm blood flushed his bearded cheek.
“I'd like to show ’em how we danced the
polka down on Dingo Creek.
“I'd show ’em what reel dancin’ was! Why,
spare me days! I’m game 10 bet
A cove could fox-trot all night long an’ never
raise a decent sweat.
An’ in these times I’ll guarantee the girls would
start or look askance
To see their jazzin’ partners change their collars
after every dance.
We always did, while stylish coots who tried to
act the heavy swell
Would take a change of socks along—perhaps
an extra shirt as well.
Hot work it was—too flamin’ right! The
broken-winded an’ the weak
Were often trampled underfoot at dances down
on Dingo Creek.
“An’ girls! . . . what pearls they used to be;
the dinkum mulga country breed.
Good rangy sorts with lots of weight an’ quite
a dinkum turn of speed.
1 had me pick of any there” —a note of pride
was in his voice—
“ You oughter seen the mad stampede whenever
there was ‘Ladies’ Choice’!
The way they’d charge across to me jist like
a hungry dingo pack
Which sights a weakling yearling calf that’s
wandered off the beaten track!
Them times is past, an’ now, of course, I’m
nothin’ but an ancient freak—
But, cripes! it was a diff’rent tale at dances
down on Dingo Creek.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


“Yabber”: A month or so after I’d
sold a tractor to Bill Blinks, the hardest
old nail in the district', and one who
swore by the horse, I saw him ploughing
with a single-furrow, working his black
stallion Pluto. I didn’t like to face
Bill; something must have gone wrong
with that blasted tractor. Still, I was
paid to do my job, so I went in and,
after some sparring about, mentioned the
tractor. “Best investment ever I made,”
said Bill. “It’s th’ best horse on th’
farm. I oughter got one years ago.” He
was so enthusiastic that I felt it safe to
ask why, if the tractor was so good, he
was working Pluto in the plough. “It’s
this way,” said Bill. “Th’ season’s just
ended an’ I want to show the black
it ain’t all pleasure in this world.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Makeshifts? Aboard
a fishing-boat down Tassie way I held
a black exercise book over the outside
of a porthole while the owner shaved in
that improvised mirror, using a sharp
bait knife for razor, a frayed rope’s end
for a brush and a mixture of soap and
oil for lather. After he’d hacked them
off he parted his hair with a fork and
went ashore. Yes, of course it was a
girl.
* * * *
“Pisces”: Next to the deep-sea toad
I d nominate the parrot-fish as the sea-
dweller with the best teeth if elongations
of the frontal bones of his head, ivory-
“Santa Claus speaking, children, from my home in Iceland.”
tipped and case-hardened, can be classed
as teeth. The parrot needs good
grinders; he browses on live coral. The
“teeth” grow at an abnormal rate; if
anything happens to prevent him grind-
ing them on his favored diet, the fish
soon can’t open his mouth wide enough
to separate the edges of them. The
parrot is alleged to employ a small deep-
sea fish to give him dental attention. The
bigger fellow stands on his tail and draws
back his lips, and the sprats whose job it
is dip in and clean the teeth as efficiently
as a toothbrush could do it.
“Old Sam”: The slate-grey old-man
'roo that aimed flying kicks at speeding
motor-cars (B. 4/11/’36) reminded me
painfully of a red-eared, blue-tailed, sul-
phur-colored bounder on the Banana-
land coast that delighted in kicking the
legs from under our mounts when stock
mustering. Was thundering after a
breakaway one slippery morning when
the bounding demon (his back would
spit sparks if stroked against the grain
on a dark night) lined up alongside and
made a flying side kick at my mount,
knocking the legs clean from under him.
The next moment the terrified 'roo was
streaking for his natural with me astride
of him. Did he buck? He threw
Catherine wheels, turned back somer-
saults, danced ring-a-rosies and ended
up with himself bucked inside out. I
had to cut my way out to daylight with
my pocket-knife, which I was careful to
retain as proof of the happening. He
was still at his tricks when I left the
district.
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: Tell “Hanko” (B.
28/10/’36) that mynas are domiciled
elsewhere in Australia than in Mel-
bourne. They are common in town-
ships throughout the Cairns (Q.) district,
but are never found in the cattle coun-
try to which they were imported as tick-
eaters. The Indian immigrant builds a
home of scraps of paper and rubbish.
Recently a bagman at Babinda (N.Q.)
found a £1 note forming part of the lin-
ing of one of their nests. Up here the
squabblesome birds are regarded as a
pest.
* * * *
“Y.A.M.”: Where on earth did
“Creel” (B. 21/10 / ’36) get that yarn
about Chinaman fish being poisonous
during June, July and August? N.Q.
coastal aborigines, among whom I lived
for many years and whose principal
article of diet was always fish, never dis-
carded a Chinaman any day of the week
or month of the year. They said, how-
ever, that round the fins was poisonous,
and this they carefully cut away at all
times before cooking. When it comes
to poison in fish or vegetation, I’d be-
lieve an abo. before any white pfeller.
* * * *
“Leirum”: Those who think no hazard
attaches to big-game fishing should try
conclusions with a giant kingfish of
Torres Strait. I’ve seen fingers bitten
off cleanly by one snap of a badly-
handled catch, and have seen Binghi legs
laid bare to the. bone by a captured king-
fish threshing on the deck. On one
occasion a six-footer overshot in his
swoop upwards for a tow-line bait, and
in his skyward parabola went clean
through the stout No. 3 cotton duck of a*
lugger mainsail as though it were tissue
paper, to fall with a loud plop into the
blue water. Recently the crew of a
harbormaster’s launch had a hectic few
moments at night when a whopping
kingie crashed inside the for’ard cabin,
reducing the occupants to nervous
wrecks and the crockery, lamps and gear
to debris.
* * * *
“Kriz”; Dirty water forced us to try
the deep holes in Roebuck Bay (W.A.).
The rest of the fleet had followed, but
Nishioka, our No. 1 diver, was first over
the side to try his luck. A noted pearl
place this. A little later I heard a com-
motion down aft, and found that the
“tender” was unable to move the. diving
hose and the. lifeline was fouled. We
got the second diver into his dress and
helped him over the side to investigate.
He was forced to return with "half-
“Pretty smart fellow, eh?”
caste” (paralysis), but he reported that
Nishioka’s lifeline and diving hose had
become jambed in a ledge, of rock round
about 18 fathoms, and that No.l seemed
unable to help himself. We hailed the
nearest lugger, but they shouted back
that their diver had gone ashore, so
there was nothing else to do but get
the dinghy out and scull to the next
nearest lugger, half a mile away. The
diver was on the bottom when we got
there., but' he was soon brought up and
helped into our dinghy. When we got
him aboard the connections wouldn’t fit,
so we had to get him out of his own
dress and into the dress of our second
diver. After six hours Nishioka was
helped aboard. He must have seen quite
a lot of his past life whilst hanging be-
tween life and death, for when he re-
covered from the shock he got a bottle
of sake from the case under his bunk,
and emptied it over the side as an offer-
ing to the spirit of the divers lost at sea.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: That sandalwood nuts are
edible (B. 14/10/’36) comes as a sur-
prise to me. Tramping the mulga I
always accepted the. abos.’ advice that
the sandalwood product was “bad pfeller
tucker.” More, in early W.A. goldfield
days, when the sandalwoods grew close
to the towns, medical men warned
mothers to be careful of their children,
many having become seriously ill from
eating the nuts.
* * * *
“Centre”: Our butcher-bird, or col-
lared crow-shrike, though it does not eat
carrion, does store food for future use.
I have seen the bird return and feed off
the impaled tucker the day after it was
put there. The items in the larder are
never left long enough to become any-
thing approaching carrion; the grim
remains sometimes seen decorat-
ing thorn-bush or tree are empty
husks, the inside having been
eaten. Small birds, beetles,
lizards and wattle moths all
form part of the bill of fare of
one of our sweetest songbirds,
whose mellow, clear, flutelike
notes, heard especially about
sunrise in autumn, surpass even
the world-famed carol of our
magpie.
“Harry N.”: That Westralian battery
hand’s loss (B. 4/11 /’36) is a fleabite to
that suffered years ago by a prospector in
the Wood’s Point (Vic.) district. Stum-
bling across a huge quartz outcrop
studded with gold in the dense bush
there he left his billycan—the only thing
he was carrying—on top, took bearings
by the roofs of the township he could
see in the distance, and set off to have
his find legally recorded. He never
found it again, despite long and earnest
search. Years later it was rediscovered,
the original finder’s rusty billycan at its
foot. Christened the Royal Standard,
it was worked profitably as an opencut.
house was sympathetic but patronising.
“Sure, and I knew it was going to
happen. The cashier gave me word to
get me money out weeks ago.” Acid
comment on the unneighborliness of not
passing the word around were met with
tosses of the head and the defence that
“a business secret was a secret and one
needed to look after one’s self.” “And
did you get your money out?” inquired
Old Simple. “Indeed I did. And I have
it in the safe, this present moment.”
Triumphantly, in proof of her business
acumen, she produced fat rolls of notes
—all in the deceased bank’s currency;
good, of course, at the time she had
drawn it.
* * * *
“Dead Marine”: “Old-timer” (B.
7/10/’36), with his barked fingers and
frayed tempers in a camp deficient in a
bottle-opener, makes me smile. I’ve
never been in a camp that possessed one.
That’s the beauty of the crown seal: it
can be opened anywhere and on any-
thing—the edge of frying-pan or billy,
shovel blade or axe, on a jam-tin even.
And I have struck blokes who, after just
a few drinks, dispensed with formality
and dragged the tops off with their teeth!
* * * #
“Laetitia”: To the uninvited guests at
the clam feast add apes of the Dutch
Celebes. When the giant clams are ex-
posed at low water the monkey epicure
approaches the dining-table carrying a
stout pebble. This he deftly inserts be-
tween the clam’s lips, and, though the
clam immediately withdraws, the pebble
prevents complete closure of the shell.
Then a long arm is inserted and the
gourmet dines at leisure.
* * * *
“Woodki”: Why does bottle-glass be-
come brittle and weak in salt water?
At Tuggerah Lakes (N.S.W.), when there
was no pub at The Entrance and
launches brought the beer, whisky and
other necessities of life for visitors and
residents, the bottom of the big lake in
and near the main channel from Wyong
was covered with dead marines. That
was years ago; to-day the licensed
fishermen who net these waters will tell
you their greatest handicap is broken
glass. They swear that the bottles break
practically at a touch, and even when
brought up whole have to be handled
carefully, for they break if tossed even
on soft sand. The netters show some
fearsome cuts in proof.
* * * *
“Lucullus”: The sundry flavors of emu
meat detested by Abo.-gastronomists may
have been due to the birds’ recent diet.
Feed a muscovy duck on fish and pol-
lard and you get a disagreeable flavor
in both flesh and eggs. Feed the same
bird on chopped green maize and pol-
lard and you have a dish that would
have found favor at a Roman banquet.
Similarly, have your emu, preferably a
young hen, dine for a few weeks on the
cocky’s sprouting corn and I’ll guarantee
there’ll be few complaints.
“Mercantile”: That rabbit-trapper
with his O.K. cheque (B. 21/10/’36) re-
calls the bank smashes of ’92. With the
local bank closed, practically every busi-
nessman in our little Victorian town was
contemplating the “filing of his shovel,”
and a compromise meeting was being
held at the local hotel. Mrs. Public-
DON’T RUSH THE KIP.
It's hard to trace the origin
Of all the idioms one hears;
The records of our next-of-kin
Lie buried underneath the years.
But over this one’s parentage
The mists of vagueness never slip;
No windy warfare experts wage
About these words “Don’t rush the kip.”
I heard them first—to be precise—
When, minus tucker, cash and roof,
I took another fool’s advice
To roll my swag and pad the hoof.
The first day out my mate said “Hey!
As time’s no object, take my tip,
And walk more slowly; anyway,
It never pays to rush the kip.”
1 got a job; the boss said “You
Will work with one who knows the run.
He’ll show you what there is to do
And also how I like things done.”
In gaining what I know of stock,
Of fencing, shearing, horsemanship,
I learnt, with work, horse, herd or flock,
It never pays to rush the kip.
“Don’t rush the kip!” Far terser than
Its classical equivalent,
It indicates to any man
In good Australian just what’s meant.
Don’t cavil at the phrase because
It haunts the two-up player’s lip;
Before you frown upon it, pause!
And take a pull—don’t rush the kip'
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


hits
LYS
£
proof
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
its
imm.
l *&&#•?>•■*
UM_
'2s%
--
mt
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co,, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPEC
FY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Sheep-feeding Experiments.
“Uralcha”: To determine relative
values of various supplementary foods
and pastures, an interesting experiment is
being carried out at Bald Blair, New
England, by Col. H. F. White with the
assistance of District Veterinary Officer
Blumer. The tests commenced in May,
1936, with four-tooth merino wethers
divided into four standardised mobs.
These were inspected once a month,
when 20 test sheep from each group
were weighed.
The. season was exceptionally dry. At
shearing the rainfall was 15in. below
yearly average, and during the six
months of the experiment not more than
2in. of rain fell, and that mostly in light
showers. Nevertheless the grass pad-
docks used for the trials carried good
feed and were stocked at the rate of a
sheep to the acre. Improved pasture car-
ried three sheep to the acre;.
A general survey of the monthly
weighings reveals that the lowest figures
were recorded in September. The final
weighings were made at shearing at the
end of October, when the wethers car-
ried 14 months’ wool. A careful check
was made of carcass weight and wool
cut per sheep.
No. 1 group consisted of 296 wethers,
which were run on natural pastures as
controls. No. 2 group (400) was fed
an additional ration of linseed nuts ; 4oz.
per head per week. No. 3 group (413)
received 4(oz. corn per head per week.
No. 4 group (339) was run on improved
pasture, chiefly Phalaris tuberosa; three
sheep to the acre. Results:
Carcass Weight. Wool Cut
Group. Loss. Gain. per Sheep.
1 (controls) .. .41b. —12.71 b.
2 (linseed) ... —3.61 b. 14.31 b.
3 (corn) .... 2.11 b. —12.51 b.
4 ( Phalaris ) .. —5.41 b. 15.31 b.
These figures give an overwhelming
victory to Phalaris tuberosa, and are
specially notable because of the rainless,
bleak N. England winter.
A woolclasser reported the wool to be
generally of fine to medium quality.
There was no appreciable difference in
color or condition between the groups,
but fleeces of groups 1 and 4 were on
the average slightly stronger in quality
than the others. Groups 3 and 4 had
best length of staple, particularly the
Phalaris group.
An additional trial was carried out
with two mobs of hoggets. No. 1 group
was placed on natural pasture supple-
mented by corn; No. 2, on Phalaris.
The Phalaris group fleeces were (in.
longer in staple, the wool was better
nourished and more even in condition,
and the sheep cut lib. more per head
than group 1.
The trials are to be continued at Bald
Blair to afford results under all seasons
and conditions. The supplementary
ration may be varied to obtain better
balance, but the Phalaris group will be
unaltered.
Fat-lamb Breeding.
“Albarmount”: It is now generally
agreed that merino ewes, lacking the
fecundity and milk of crossbreds, are un-
suitable for the production of high-grade
fat-lambs. Also, lambs of crossbreds
mature earlier and are more blocky and
symmetrical. Large, deep-set matrons
are the needed type. In Australia pure
British longwools are not favored on
account of the low fleece value. The
Corriedale, which is virtually a cross-
bred, is our best dual-purpose sheep, but
supply is short, though large numbers
are exported on the hoof, Japan being a
ready buyer.
To produce ideal fat-lamb bearers,
longwool rams —particularly Romney
Marsh and Border Leicester —are being
crossed with large-framed merino ewes.
This method is popular in Maoriland hill
country, the products being sold to fat-
lamb growers in the more fertile areas.
The merino takes a minor place in M.L.,
where longwool and crossbred ewes are
plentiful.
Once fat-lamb producers learn the
wisdom of using nothing but the right
type of mothers —and are prepared to
pay for them —there should be no diffi-
culty in getting graziers in the drier dis-
tricts to keep up the supply.
While longwools are recommended to
beget the dams, the Downs breeds are
“ Cripes! Strawberry's dryin' off terrible quick!"
displacing them as fat-lamb sires. This
combination seems to be ideal, produc-
ing a quick-maturing, chunky lamb with
a minimum of bone.
An even grade of lambs cannot be ex-
pected from mixed ewes, and it is as
essential to class for fat-lamb raising as
it is for woolgrowing. Sires should be
purebreds.
Fleece and Blowfly.
“X.N.”: The C.S.I.R. has done a lot
of work in determining the influence of
fleece characteristics on blowfly strike.
It has been established that' sheep with
slack, open fleeces are more easily wetted
to the skin than dense-woolled sheep,
and that open-woolled sheep are more
often struck.
Sheep with dark, yellowish-yolk color
in the fleece showed themselves more sus-
ceptible to body strike than animals with
paler and brighter types of fleeces.
Fleeces of high handling character have
more immunity than common and harsh
ones. Length apparently is only an in-
fluence so far as it tends to retain water
and shelter maggots.
“Wettability” seems to be the main
factor to be considered, especially with
delicate-skinned sheep, inclined to rash
when wet for any length of time.
Careful selection, producing animals as
nearly perfect in conformation as possible
and with light, bright, high-character
fleeces, may do a good deal to wipe out
fly-
Defence of Tail-searing.
“Corriedale”: The arguments so far
advanced against my support of hot-iron
searing (which applied only to the opera-
tive technique) have not been convincing.
Anyone who has seen how a three- to
four-week-old lamb can lose blood will
surely not maintain that it can do so
and remain as resistant to infections as
formerly. With some lambs the loss of
blood is so severe that they die from no
other cause than that they cannot with-
stand the subsequent weather conditions.
Apart from resistance to infection, a
full volume of blood is necessary for
body-warming purposes and for diges-
tion. When a lamb loses a third of its
blood —that happens with 10 p.c. of
lambs marked —it has a hard job to sur-
vive over the next few days until the
blood volume is built to normal.
There is almost no natural resistance
to tetanus ; searing or other treatments
simply aim to keep the lamb hi and to
dose venous and arterial points of entry
of the germ. Tetanus, in any case, is
not so widely prevalent as imagined. It
occurs on some farms, in and out of
yards and even in the middle of pad-
docks, and is just as lethal anywhere to
lambs lying down with bleeding stumps.
(Of course, there is greater risk in the
yards than elsewhere.)
Septicaemic germs—products of dirty
yards or undrained sites near animal
refuse—are more of a curse usually ;
and a lamb that has not bled profusely
will possess a good deal more resistance
to this common infection than one which
, , a
has lost heavily. . ..
Any treatment that will hygiemcally
prevent blood loss and close the raw
surfaces quickly is worth adopting.
Searing alone is practicable as yet. It is
worth noting, also, that it is a means of
destroying eerms introduced into the
cut during the operation.
Shearing on the Fitzroy.
“Horsetailer”: Noonkanbah station,
Fitzroy River (W.A.), has a unique 20-
stand shearing shed, specially designed to
suit the tropics. Raised high on piles
with no walls (except on the wool room
at one end) this shed is planned inside
out, with races and catching-pens to the
outsides and the large double board in
the middle. The shorns are let go down
chutes leading to shady checking-pens
under the floor. Open to the four winds,
the shed is cool, but none too brilliant
to pen-up in.
Try to drive woollies that have been
mustered by gins waving bushes around
those races, with sun and shadows, with
shorns moving below gratings and with
pickers-up in full view, and you’ll find
out.
In ’27, Noonkanbah, one of the five
sheep runs in the far-away Kimberleys,
shore the greatest number of sheep in
Westralia —60,000-odd.
Stoppage in Cows’ Stomachs.
“Silky Bag”: The Epsom salts drench-
treatment that “Seenitall” (B. 18/11/’36)
gave his sick cow for stiff hindquarters
is the soundest home remedy, but his
diagnosis of a stoppage between the third
and fourth stomachs does not convince.
Between these —the omasum and aboma-
sum —is a short passage lin. long and
3in. diameter. A stoppage here is only
possible when the whole of the third
stomach is impacted. This malady is so
serious that few affected cows recover,
even after surgical opening of the abdo-
men and moving of the impacted food.
The chances of any drench getting
through an impacted third stomach are
few, and it must do this to become effec-
tive. Impaction medicines aim to pre-
vent the intestinal walls withdrawing
water from the food mass as it passes
down the small intestine. This causes a
concentration in the intestine, and so
brings about strong bowel movements.
But drench medicines do not have
much effect on the first three stomachs,
because the walls of these are non-glan-
dular. They do not withdraw water or
secrete. The first two are purely storage
depots for the ruminating process; the
third is a grinding appliance. All food
or liquid must pass through the latter
also to enter the fourth stomach, which,
together with the intestine, does contain
glands. This is the region that responds
to doses such as Epsom salts.
It would seem that “Seenitall s” cow
was suffering from failure of the liver to
secrete digestive juices, with the result
that the small intestine became impacted
or sluggish, and the whole mechanism oL
the bloodstream for replacing bad, waste
tissue products was thrown out ol gear.
The “Maoriland” Tick. __
“Zedo”: Many Queensland cattlemen
have lately discovered in their herds a
new tick which has become known as
the “New Zealand” tick. This is a gross
injustice to Maoriland. The immigrant
is common in Malaya, India, Japan and
E. Africa —though this doesn’t help the
cattleman.
The life process of the pest is as fol-
lows : The engorged female tick falls off
an animal and lays her eggs in shelter.
When these hatch —usually under three
weeks —the larvae make for the nearest
beast and have a four-day banquet which
fills them. Another period on the ground
follows: in 10 days the nymph stage is
reached. The nymph then has anothei
four days’ gorge, falls off and, in 10
days, the tick is full-grown. Still an-
other four days’ feeding and the cycle
begins all over again.
It will be seen that the cycle is dif-
ferent from that of the ordinary cattle
tick, which lives on its host from larval
(i Continued on page 24.)


BARGAIN BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS
PRICES TO SUIT ALL PURSES—BOOKS TO SUIT ALL READERS
All Prices Post Free between Now and Christmas—a Further Saving.
f>£Asl f of
.
4 M 5/-
or
116 each
SATURDEE, by Norman Lindsay.
BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin.
Author of ALL THAT SWAGGER.
STORIES BY KODAK.
All Old "Bulletin" readers remember "Kodak.’
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer.
THE SOW'S EAR. by Bernard Cronin.
NIGHTS ASHORE, by Capt. J. Hamilton.
df
KNICHTS
1
ERANC
3 for 10/-
or
3/6 each
THE DOUGHMAN, by Robert Desmond Tate.
GIVING AMBER A CHANCE, by Jessie Urquhart.
FORTY-SIX, by Stewart Howard.
PEARLS OF PAPUA, by Comdr. Brewster (Retd.).
One of the finest boys’ books of adventure written in Australia.
KARANGI, by F. S. Hibble.
Joint winner Vic. Centenary Competition.
BLUE NORTH, by H. Drake-Brockman.
A tale of pearlers on the north-west coast.
1/- each
1(6
2 /■ each
2/6
3/6
4/6
BUSH BABS, verse by D. H. Souter.
WARDENS OF THE SEAS, by E. J. Brady.
Both Souter and Brady are already well known to “Bulletin
readers.
PRACTICAL EMBROIDERY, by Rosalie Wilson.
A textbook on needlework with over 100 illustrations.
SKIPPETY SONGS, by Carna Birmingham.
For the kiddies. Illustrated by the author.
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND BITERS, by Robt. Kaleski.
An expert talks on the domestic and working dogs of Australia.
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT, by A. B. ("Banjo") Paterson.
ALL-ABOUT, by Mary and Elizabeth Durack.
A delightfully happy study of the abos. in the Kimberleys (W.A.)
—a suggestion for an overseas present.
PSALMIST OF THE DAWN, by Mary Marlowe.
Romantic Lord Howe Island story.
BARKERS
“BITERS.
IJW
Robert Ktt/eski
•*
i
m
gd
ALL ABOUT
•*
! M.lZMitlli BV'K.VCKj
«« TIBURON
RYUE TENNANT
5 /■ each
6/6
7/6
21/-
KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG, by Dr. H. Basedow.
No one knew the Australian abo. better than the author.
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose Pratt.
Beautifully produced—an ideal present for overseas friends.
THE WORLD IS YOURS, by G. B. Lancaster.
By the author of PAGEANT.
TIBURON, by Kylie Tennant.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner for 1935.
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster.
Now in its Fifth Australian Edition.
LANDTAKERS, by Brian Penton.
S. M. Herald” said: “Those who want to keep in touch with the
best in current Australian literature should- read LAND-
TAKERS.”
A CLUSTER OF BEES, by Tarlton Rayment.
Reviewers in every country in the world welcome this delightfully-
written and -produced book on the many species of Australian
Bee—a classic.
Send Postal Note to The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street,
Sydney, or Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.


Q.rvC\ %
V*
,'J e
C>®*
zS'
This boot is stocked in full and half
sizes, with medium and wide fittings,
so that a perfect fit can be guaranteed.
Made from a high-grade brown ooze
calf. Price 42/6
'yHIS you will realise
when you see our
Ooze Calf Riding Boot.
Its whole appearance sug-
gests strength and endur-
ance, surely a fitting com-
panion for the man on the
land.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
-LICK
*
r\
\
2
i iZM.
ALL
.Vtl ,JV N /
WANT
IT
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
JF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/0 PER TUBE OP TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in
the whole of the area
of Greater Brisbane.
“The Telegraph”
carries the largest
share of local display
and classified adver-
tisements.
The man on the spot
knows relative values.
To follow his example is
often wise.
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., King St., Sydney
20th Century Miracle.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
R.D.L. LEVER
EVERLASTING WATCH
Unbreakable Shockproof
Non-magnetic and Accurate.
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
Against Constructional Faults, and
Oiled Free Every Twelve Months.
Built to Stand a Knock or Fall.
POST
FREE
12
11
10
2
LEVER
3
9
4
7
5
USED BY 60,000 PEOPLE.
R. Dixon Long, Designer and Director of the
World-famous R.D.L. Wonder Watches, so
successfully used and recommended by 60,000
people during the past 11 years, now offers you
this marvellous Everlasting Watch as the acme
of Perfection in a dependable timepiece.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
R.D.B. Watches, designed by an Aus-
tralian, were first introduced in 1925 and
are still supreme.
Recommended for Farmers, Tram, Rail,
Police and Businessmen.
The R.D.L. LEVER is everlasting because it is
built of standardised interchangeable parts. As
one part wears, so it can be replaced at a very
low cost, making the life of the watch indefinite,
everlasting. It is also shockproof (virtually
unbreakable), having special shock absorbing
features introduced into the expert construction
of the movement.
Pocket Size, Plain Dial 17/6
Pocket Size, Buminous Dial 20/-
Eady’s Service Wristlet Size 20/-
Gent.’s I.arge Service Wristlet .... 20/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (small round
nickel case), Buminous 25/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (nickel
cushion shape case), Buminous .. 30/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (Oct. gold-
filled cushion case), Buminous .. 45/-
Bady’s Gold-filled and Solid Gold
Dress Wristlets (jewelled)—
45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Obtainable only from
R.D.L. WONDER WATCHES,
Est. 1917. It. Dixon Bong, Director,
Fourth Floor, Cromwell Buildings,
RfiGV Bourke St., Melb., C.l, Vic.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, 3lelbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd,, Adelaide.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
stage onward, and for which periodic dip-
pings are, therefore, a sound method of
control.
The new arrival is always present in
some life stage on the ground, and no
sooner is an animal cleansed by dipping
than there is likely to be another infec-
tion. To be effective, dipping would have
to be done every three days.
It seems that no time should be wasted
in finding a deterrent. Derris root per-
haps would fill the bill; Queensland
Agricultural Department thinks it might
be worth while to include the root in
standard arsenical dips.
The new tick is not a carrier of one of
three tick-fever organisms, but experi-
ment has not gone far enough to show
whether it carries the others. Even if
it is not a carrier, it must affect the health
of stock.
Tobacco-growing and Marketing.
“Nothung”: Few industries have suf-
fered so much from early misplaced en-
thusiasm and failures as tobacco-farm-
ing. After the first tide of enthusiasm
the industry was for a time discredited.
Now, however, it shows signs of becom-
ing quite solid, and it is being strength-
ened by better marketing and organisa-
tion.
Victoria leads with 5000 acres produc-
ing 3,000,0001 b., a high percentage of
which is bright leaf on B.A.T. grades.
Queensland comes second with
2,000,0001 b. grown on 4000 acres. N. S.
Wales produces 600,0001 b., W.A.
500,0001 b. and Tasmania 100,0001 b.
It is possible that soon 10 p.c. Aus-
tralian leaf will be used in cigarette to-
bacco, and anything from 15 p.c. to 25
p.c. in pipe tobacco. Growers and manu-
facturers still have to fight against
prejudice.
The best help given to growers by
Government and C.S.I.R. so far —apart
from quotas —is subsidised seedbeds and
benzol treatment. In Queensland seed-
lings free from blue mould may now be
had at a top price of £1 per 1000 from
subsidised beds in Mareeba (20), Dim-
bulah (16), Woodstock (1), Bowen (4),
Miriam Vale and Bundaberg (3). The
Texas-Inglewood district is so established
as not to require subsidised beds. Here
the growers were given the first advan-
tages of the benzol treatment in seed-
beds.
We can learn a lot from the Canadian
system of tobacco-marketing, with its
domestic supply protection and ruling
home price, while allowing growers and
buyers individual freedom in selling and
buying. By a system of inspections—one
by interested buyers and another by
Board Appeal inspectors—the crops are
graded so that the grower knows his
general expected return. The minimum
domestic price and the home supply are
then appraised by a special Market
Appraisal Committee. Foreign market-
ings are the affairs of buyers and sellers
alone.
Sub. Clover at Pinjarra (W.A.).
“Ads”: Thirty years ago, when saw-
milling began in Westralia’s south-
western forested areas, pessimistic folk,
looking over the scrubby country around
the foothills of the ranges south of Pin-
jarra, averred that it would never know
sheep or cattle.
It has lots of them to-day, thanks to
sub. clover, which, incidentally, seems
to encourage any old grass that chances
to blow along to stick in and vary the
food of Strawberry. Spreading from
range to sea and sweeping north and
south for a hundred miles and more, a
great area sports a green the old hands
would never have thought possible.
To-day, too, there are numbers of
butter factories —large ones at' Bunbury,
Pinjarra, Busselton, Boyanup and else-
where.
Grass Hay.
“Rusticus”: If rain has fallen between
grass-hay cutting and stacking as much
as 14 p.c. of the dry matter may be
destroyed by damp in a small stack and
double that percentage in a large stack.
This means destruction of both proteins
and carbohydrates. The chief cause is
the heat generated. Respiration of the
still active plant cells, the combination
of atmospheric oxygen with the organic
matter in the hay, and violent activity
of the many different types of bacteria,
which develop rapidly, are all factors in
this heat generation.
Although green fodder will generate
considerable heat if stacked, there is
little fire danger; but the ripest hay
stacked in a wet condition is liable to
fire.
All this lends weight to the advantages
of silage making, which can be carried
out in any weather, without risk of loss
by fire. Dry fodder, of course, is neces-
sary, and grass-hay fills the bill.
Grass cut late in the season under un-
favorable conditions does not even equal
good straw as fodder. Cut it at the right
stage and cure with a minimum of loss
and you have something little less valu-
able as feed than green pasture. And
remember that variation in feed quality
in hay is not always apparent to the eye.
Beating Erosion.
“The 0.D.”: By 1930 erosion had
done so much damage on C. R. Good-
acre’s 740-acre farm near Woodstock
(N.S.W.) that cereal production seemed
finished. In five years the eroded land
has been reclaimed by ploughing-in
washouts and constructing contour banks.
Fertility has yet to be completely re-
stored, but the farm is back to it's old
standard as a wheat-producer.
The farm, variable hilly loam soil, with
slopes of 12 p.c. and steeper, has a 25in.
rainfall. Its owner took it over in 1920
(it was previously grazing land), and
cultivated 600 acres (half crop, half
fallow). Soon the hills were gouging,
and deep gutters subdivided the pad-
docks. By 1926, 50 acres had been aban-
doned, and another 100 went west by
1931. Then the owner heard of “con-
tours.”
He did a 20-acre patch badly cut up
by 6ft. deep gutters. They were ploughed
in ; banks were placed two chains apart
with a fall of \ p.c. This fall was in-
sufficient. The banks soon silted and
heavy rain broke over them. O.ie per
cent, falls were better, but still lacking
Then \\ p.c. was tried, and success
attained. There was no silting, run-off
was checked and scouring eliminated.
Falls of 2 p.c. and 3 p.c. proved too
steep.
Contour lines are marked out during
ploughing. The disc strikes out along
them, and then goes twice over the
upper side to form the banks. Ploughing
is then done with the finishing furrow
half-way between the banks, thus mak-
ing a minor third bank. By banking on
the upper side, no drains appear below
the banks. Distance between banks,
two chains ; height, about Ift.; length,
not more than 50 chains. All future
cultivating is to be done on the contour.
•Where the worst damage was done
before the contouring started, lucerne,
sub. clover and perennial rye are being
used to restore fertility.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandy”: A good leather dressing is
half mutton fat and half used separator
oil. Heat, stir well and apply with a
worn paintbrush.
“Silky Bag”: A thick paste made from
bismuth subnitrate and good castor oil,
applied lightly, is excellent for cowpox.
Use sparingly—bismuth is costly.
“X.T.”: In cleaning cans, milking
plant, etc., begin with warm water, add
soda when the utensils are fairly well
scoured and finish with a good polish-
ing with some form of sandsoap —half-
liquid or otherwise. Lastly, use boiling
water without any other ingredient.
“Lam”: There would be better
orchards and farms if every farmer and
fruit man kept a beehive. Bees are the
best pollinators in the world. In apples
—which, strictly speaking, are a merging
of five fruits —five independent fertilisa-
tions are. important, and the bee is the
boy to do it. Also, honey is healthy,
germ-free food and useful for all sorts
of purposes. Among other things, it is
an excellent disinfectant.
“A.T.”: A cheap, efficient paint for
corrugated iron roofs can be made b>
mixing 141 b. cement with one gallon of
boiled linseed oil. Stir often and apply
in warm weather. This will stand con-
tinual expansion and contraction, and
will hang to the smooth surface, whereas
most paint blisters and cracks on iron.
“Sandy”: This is the time to plant
mangolds, which can be grown from
Gippsland to Atherton. Not much depth
of soil is required, as the tuber is a sur-
face grower. A rich soil is best. Plnnt
seeds 9in. apart in drills, the rows wide
enough apart to be scuffled. Transplant-
ings can be done to fill misses. Man-
golds are nearly as good as sweet pota-
toes for pigs and much easier to harvest.
On good soil yield goes up to 40 tons
per acre.


SMOKE-OH!
“Katherine May Be Base for Dr. Fenton.”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
Who would have thought Katherine
was a girl like that?
•I* *l> »I- ►!*
“He played the gay cavalier.” — Woodfull.
“HardstafT was not the gay cavalier we knew
last season.”— A. G. Moyes (Sydney “Sun”).
“Barnett was our hope and reliant cavalier.”
—Neville Card us.
McGrath was a gay cavalier of the courts.”
“Flat-top” (in Brisbane “Courier-Mail”).
Oh, bring on a Roundhead!
*!• * *2-
“Daffodils no bigger than a sixpence were
displayed at the Royal Horticultural Society’s
Hall, London.”
Our back garden can do that with
cabbages.
The Sixth Test.
“A well-known business firm has offered
bonuses for outstanding performances in Test
matches. Other firms are following suit.”
Brown and Fingleton opened to the
bowling of Allen. Off the first ball
Brown punched a neat pair of Slip-thru
trousers past cover, while Fingleton
opened his account with a fourth share
in a lottery ticket through slips. Dis-
aster soon overtook Australia, for in
Voce’s second over he obtained his first
Christmas turkey, Hammond holding a
low bottle of sarsaparilla at first slip.
“Stop jumpin’ about, Willie —you make the passengers feel uncom-
fortable."
Bradman and Brown carried the stock
along until Brown, in attempting to lift
a case of champagne over the pavilion
roof, gave Leyland an easy half-case of
mild and bitter at mid-on. Brown’s score
included three safety razors, a colored
photograph of Bondi beach and a bottle
of banana oil. With the exception o£
Bradman, who repeatedly hooked the
slow bowlers for free tickets to the Rus-
sian Ballet, the middle batsmen failed,
but a fine stand by the tail-enders pro-
duced three complete gent.’s outfits, a
pair of size 10 cricket boots and an auto-
graphed copy of Tricking the Barrackers.
England replied with 12 cases of
assorted refreshments, a signed photo-
graph of Mr. Lyons, a bottle of eau-de-
Yarra and a crate of raspberries (from
the Blue Mountains, not the Hill).
Australia’s opening pair produced the
dry goods in the second innings, and
England was left a moderate emporium
to chase.
Fine work in ironmongery by Hard-
staff and a contribution of brewery
stocks by Worthington reduced the defi-
cit, so that when the ninth wicket fell
England was only a pair of size nine
cricket boots behind. Verity, who had
already scored a pair of scanties (men’s),
snicked a pair of suspenders past the
’keeper, ran one and turned for the
second, but a brilliant return by Brown
broke the wicket, with Verity a yard out.
England had been beaten, in the closest
game for years, by a bootlace.
Adelaise.
*1- »!• *!«
“Walter felt that he wanted to do something
definite, something conclusive, but he died at
an early age.”— Novel.
Well, that seems conclusive enough.
-I* *l* *1- •!*
“ ‘Why not give yourself a treat by travelling
in the Antarctic?’ asks a travel writer.”
Frankly, the idea leaves us cold.
*l* *l* *
“Interviewed, she said ‘My husband says he
seriously considered every point before he pro-
posed to me.’ ”
Yes, and what good did it do him?
4* 4* 4 1
“Will anyone who has discarded clothing
kindly call on the vicar between 7 and 8 p.m.
on Friday.” —Parish magazine.
What’ll the bishop say when he hears
of this?
•t*
Mummies at the Customs.
The startled eyes of the Customs
officer at Fremantle travelled from the
paper in his hand to the quiet-looking
little man in front of him “Holy
smoke! ” cried the Customs officer, at
once dashing off the following urgent
wire:
Minister for Infernal Affairs.
Bloke wants to land with 10 Egyptian
mummies stop view of trouble over one
Indian mummy hell of a fix stop await in-
structions.
Customs, Fremantle.
Back came the answer:
Customs, Fremantle.
If Turkish gentleman travelling with
harem use tact stop avoid international
complications stop shut trap about Indian
mummies.
Minister for Infernal Affairs.
To which Customs replied:
Minister for Infernal Affairs.
Says you can’t put Indian sign on him
stop take mummies where he likes stop
British subject.
Customs, Fremantle.
Canberra was in turmoil. The Minister
for Infernal Affairs consulted the Minis-
ter of Queer Affairs. They were about to
decide on drastic action when another
wire arrived:
. Minister for Infernal Affairs.
Everything O.K. stop this chap Professor
Roger Dodgem lecturer stop says mummies
have been dead for thousands of years
stop told him no objection to dead ones
stop advised him never try land here with
10 live ones stop
Customs, Fremantle.
And a great sigh of relief went up in
Canberra!
D. McM.
“Can’t Wait any longer, missus—we got two more moves t’-day."
“During the Coronation, accommodation in
London will be taxed to the limit.” — Cable.
That should make our delegation feel
quite at home.
* -F
Food for the Hungry.
“Food is always available in Sydney for
those who need it.” — “Sun.”
It is quite easy, of course. All a man
has to do is to rise from his slumber in
the park (he can choose a bed of roses
for it if he likes) and take a stake from
a flower-bed ; or, if there happens to be
a fight on anywhere, he can get in for
his chop. In either case somebody’s
bound to give him some sauce.
Then if he goes to one of the early-
morning churches he can help himself
to the roll of the organ, and by leaning
against a door get the benefit of the
jamb.
No need for him to crave for soup
since he is in it; and if he wants a
drink he has simply to wander from
spot to spot.
If he asks for money for bread he is
bound to get a few crumbs of sympathy
from men who have left their money at
home. If he fraternises with other park
deadbeats there are bound to be some
whines among them. They can have a
regular celebration.
H. M.
*2* *2* *l* *!♦
“The quick action of the tramguard saved
him from being electrocuted.”— “Sun”
A lightning conductor!
“Frozen lemonade used as a missile.”
—Court report.
Hardly a soft drink then.
-2* *l* -2- »2*
This Gardening Business.
I.
Amateur gardening isn’t so much a
recreation as a pathological condition, a
striking peculiarity of which is that any
physical benefit derived from its pur-
suit is more than offset by the concomi-
tant mental deterioration.
For centuries man has been pain-
fully aware of the degradation and
humiliation inseparable from the tilling
of his own patch, yet he has always
lacked the moral courage to break away
from a habit that has made, of him an
abject serf. He has been a martyr to
the mattock and a slave to the spray-
pump ever since Eve nagged the blame-
less Adam into doing something to cir-
cumvent the ravages of the aphides
which caused the first lady sartorial em-
barrassment by gnawing her supply of
spring frocks down to the stalk.
A questionnaire among married men
-—the only true garden addicts —would
undoubtedly reveal a wide diversity of
reasons as to why this crass folly is
still pursued. A false sense of pride,
which ever goes before a fall, and
sometimes after a spring, is one of the
chief causes. Let some men once see
the beautiful examples of the printer’s
art displayed prominently on the front
page of a seedsman’s catalogue and they
are instantly determined to grow things
like them. The fact that they never will
does not seem to sink into their alleged
grey matter even after years of fruit-
less—and vegetableless—endeavor.
When their crop of tomatoes fails —
as it inevitably must through a variety
of causes —they never lack an excuse.
There will have been either too much
rain or too little rain, or they will ex-
plain that “it has been a funny kind of
summer.” Moreover, it will be found
that not one of their fellow-enthusiasts
has done any good with his crop, either.
So, fellows in misfortune, they will dis-
cuss over several beers the sad results
of their separate soil-bashing.
It might be argued that even garden-
ing is not futile if it brings drouthy
men together to view the world through
the warm amber tints of their upraised
glasses, were it not that the awful con-
versation indulged in vitiates the frothy
pleasures they congregate to share.
One gardening fiend I know went to
no end of trouble last summer with a
bean bed. He developed a marcel wave
in his spinal column through constantly
turning the ground over to get it to the
desired state of friability (he read that
bit in a gardening hint book and, of
course, believed it). He spent about
ten bob in fertilisers, and his Saturday
afternoons in mucking about with a
Dutch hoe, when he could have been en-
joying himself. At night he’d go out
with his lantern in all weathers search-
ing for the predatory slugs and snails,
the resultant colds probably chopping
some years off his expectation of life—
or existence. He used to gloat, too,
about his victories over a few defence-
less gastropods with more pride than
that displayed by the big-game hunter
who stuns his visitors with the Bengal
tiger rug that he bought at an antique
dealers.
Eventually he got a moderate crop, of
which he was so inordinately proud that
the mere thought of picking them
pained him. By the time his spouse’s
irate adjurations to do so had their
effect the beans were stringy. I couldn’t
find it in my heart to point out to him
that the barrowmen at the time were
selling beautiful fresh young beans at
two pounds for a treyl
S. W. K,
To-night Is Mine.
To-night is mine — alluring, calm ancl
warm
These hours belong to me. No cloud-
- bank mars
This magic eve with gloomy threats of
storm,
Nor shades the twinkling brilliance of
the stars.
Yes, dear, to-night is mine (and fine), and
you
A re fresher than the morning’s freshest
rose
Or frangipanni sweet; and fairer, too,
Than e’en the fairest daffodil that
blows.
But though in love I’ve found a thing
divine
(Despite mosquitoes, ants and other
wogs ),
/ warn you, since to-night is mine (and
fine),
That petting’s off — Fm going to the
dogs!
P. O. M. C.
Before—and After.
Three evenings of each week he spent
With her when they were courting.
They’re married now —he still spends
three —•
Which certainly is sporting!
Cuatro.
*2* *2* *2* *l*
“London vaudeville producer says he cannot
find a first-class comedian.” — Cable.
Has he tried Canberra?
*2* •!- *2«
“For Sale, smart motor launch Owner
no further use.” — “S.M.H.” advt.
That’s a strange fact to advertise!
“A wind is a necessary accompaniment of
every storm.” — “Sun.”
On the contrary, many a domestic
storm occurs simply because the man
can’t raise the wind.
All in the Day’s Work.
“Repeatedly heroic fire-fighters declared that
there was no occasion for any fuss over their
activities in the outbreak, as this kind of thing
was almost routine work for them.”— “S.M.H.”
St. Peter opened the gate at the first
knock and was surprised to find that his
caller was a fallen angel with whom he
had not had the pleasure of sharing a
cup since the fall of Lucifer.
“Well, I’m blessed if it isn’t my old
friend Beelzebub! ” he exclaimed in mild
surprise. “What are you travelling for
these days? Central heating?”
“No, as a matter of fact, I’m just pay-
ing you a neighborly visit. In other
words, I’m on the cadge. You don’t
happen to have a match on you, do
you?”
“I’m afraid not,” ruefully admitted
St. Peter. “You know as well as I do
what the lady angels are like, and all
the smokers here have been sneaking
down your way for a puff after dinner
as long as I can remember.”
“Dammit!” roared Beelzebub. “How
are we going to cook the brimstone and
bismuth for tea? A couple of hours
ago we checked in half a dozen of those
Aussie bushfire-fighters for s.p. betting
and drinking after hours, and the first
thing the silly cows did was to put the
fires out before the boss had time to
think out how you said ‘Stop!’ in their
accursed tongue.”
MAG.


Another Fine Australian Novel:-
I SOLD
MY HORSES
BY ERIC LOWE
My grandfather died, and l never knew how ;
He left me six horses to drive in the plough
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
I sold my horses, and. I bought a little cow,
But when I went to milk her I didn’t know how.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
/ sold my cow, and I bought a little cat;
The wicked little thing on the mantelpiece she sat.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
I sold my cat, and I bought a little mouse ;
Its tail caught fire and it burnt down the house.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook
Chapter X.
{Continued.)
lOBIN and Bob Hare strolled across the
ground together.
Bob told him: “Myrna wants you to buy
some fruit. I’m going to look for Gillie
Brain. His sister thinks he’s on the tank.”
“Gillie on the tank!” Robin laughed.
“Not if he has to buy it himself —and no one’s going
to buy it for him. You’ll find him talking politics with
Sam Hetty, the shire president, and the recruiting
sergeant. They were having a great argument when
I saw them half an hour ago. Gillie was on his pet
hobby. You know: 'We don’t want any more men
enlisting from Australia. The country’s underpopu-
lated as it is. There are millions of men available in
Russia. I say the Government should arm and equip
them, and keep our own men here.’ ” .
“He’s poisonous,” Bob said. “How does he come
to be old Peter’s son? Nora says the old man’s fretting
his heart out over what people are saying about Gillie.
But his mother and sister treat him like a pet Pekinese.
He must have the hide of a crocodile to go about
talking like he does.”
They walked on without speaking for a while,
then Bob said moodily “Father wants to sell Mount
Henry. He won’t let me take it over. Fred’s death
has knocked him all to pieces, and his idea now is to
let the Government take Mount Henry for repatriation
purposes at some absurdly low figure. It would be
a bad thing for the district if he did. Create an un-
fortunate precedent and send land values down to
hell. Nora and I are living at the homestead now, but
somehow I don’t think we’ll be there long.”
Robin lifted his hat to some farmer’s wife, and
Bob did the same mechanically, without looking up.
“How long’s this bloody war going to last?” he
asked. “They’re talking of conscription. I wish they’d
bring it in. A man would know where he stood then,
and there’d be no more maimed men making stupid
speeches all over the country and stirring up young
fools who have no right to go. And there’d be no
more of these.” He swept his arm around to the
enormous posters on the iron side of the produce
shed. ‘“Your King and Country need you.’ ‘Why
aren’t you in khaki?’ Don’t they make you feel like
a squashed grub?”
“No,” Robin said, “not now. I got a white
feather through the post yesterday. It made a good
pipe-cleaner—but Myrna was upset.” In a sudden
burst of confidence, for he liked this brother-in-law
and knew how he was feeling, he added “The things
that matter are inside me, more accusing than all the
white feathers and glaring posters. I don’t think
conscription—any arbitrary ruling as to my duty —
would make the slightest difference.” He broke off
abruptly to wave a greeting to a little old woman with
a face dry and wrinkled like a withered apple who
was standing behind the plank counter of a fruit and
cold-drink stall. “Good morning, Nell! You’re the
lucky one—in the middle of melons and grapes and
lemonade, and nothing to do but stretch out your
arm to get them.”
She wiped a red hand on her leather apron and
held it out to Robin with a toothless grin.
“Now, Master Robin,” she said. “You knows I
don’t take no stock of them things. Sometimes I has
a bit o’ passion, and sometimes I chews a rock, but
the rest can go beggin’ for mine.”
UNDER the trees beside the cars Myrna, Nora;
Nancy and Emil Brain were spreading things on
white tablecloths when Bob and Gillson Brain came
up.
Myrna asked “Where’s Robin?”
“I left him teasing Wild Nell,” said Bob.
“Oh, dear! I wish he wouldn’t buy fruit from
that dreadful old creature, just because she nursed
him when he was a baby. She’s dirty, and her stuff
is never good.”
“I heard him offer to bring her a pint of beer,”
Bob laughed. “If they don’t get drunk together and
forget all about it he’ll probably bring her to lunch.”
“He wouldn’t!”
“Wouldn’t he! He asked Jim Mumford, too, but
the old man seems to be a bit of a misogynist—-said
there were too many ruddy women in the party.”
“Well, that’s a consolation,” said Emily. “Gillie,
open this tin, and be careful you don’t cut your hand.”
Robin came up with McNamarra and the recruit-
ing sergeant, all of them laden with fruit. Myrna
said in an agitated aside to Nancy “I’d sooner have
Nell Coombes than that man!” and aloud: “Robin,
dear, we’ll never eat a quarter of that!”
“It doesn’t matter,” he told her. “Nell was having
a thin time, so I bought this to cheer her up. What
we don’t eat can be put up for auction at the end of
the day. Mr. Kingswood will be along in a minute
with his wife and Mrs. McNamarra. Kingswood’s
buying beer, I think, and the womenfolk are bringing
something or other. They seem to think we haven’t
enough to eat.”
An understanding smile passed between Myrna
and Nora at the slightly peevish tone of Robin’s last
remark. How he did dislike anyone to bring food
to his table. Myrna remembered a story he had told
her, without seeing a bit of humor in it, of a bishop
who always carried with him a pot of marmalade and
produced it, even at Malwa, so as to be sure of an
enjoyable breakfast.
McNamarra —fussing around where he wasn’t
wanted, Myrna thought —dropped a cup and broke it
and kicked the pieces away with a half-stifled oath.
“I’m going to start selling after the flag race,”
he said. “That will be about four o’clock —before the
people start to move away. There are foot races and
odds and ends to come later, but they’re unimportant.”
“I’d like to have a talk to the crowd while you
have them together,” the recruiting sergeant said. He
was eating his second sandwich, and, suddenly dis-
covering that no one else had started, he turned very
red, dropped it and tried to put his foot on it so
no one could notice. Nancy Mcßride held her breath
in an endeavor to stop laughing until she nearly burst,
then dived for the shelter of the car, clucking like a
hen, and Robin asked “What’s the matter?” Then,
to McNamarra, “You’d better hurry things up. It’s
going to rain.”
AFTER lunch, when most of the ring events were
over, Robin and Bob and Gillson Brain wandered
around together amongst the sideshows and produce
stalls. Seeing a crowd gathered in one corner of the
ground, they went over to it, and discovered a hot
argument going on around a man whom Robin had
noticed earlier in the morning with a performing dog.
He was a pea-and-thimble artist, and a young
constable was trying to hunt him off the ground. The
crowd was evidently on the man’s side and was dis-
tinctly nasty. The reason was soon apparent, and
the man, seeing he had good backing was abusive
and truculent.
“This is what you get,” he said, “for risking your
life and living like a dog. Your King and country
need you! No more of it for mine! What do they
promise you when you go? The whole bloody world!
And what do you get when you come back all broke
up with your eyes done in? Some other cow’s got
your job, and you’re stopped earning a few bob at a
patriotic carnival! ”
The sergeant in charge of the Croy station, a
trooper, shouldered his way through the press and
caught the man by the arms.
“That’s enough!” he said. “Come out of this!”
But a hefty young farmer stepped up beside them.
“Let him go,” he said. “He’s done his bit. And
that’s more than you have.”
There was an ugly murmur from the crowd, and
the situation looked ugly, when the recruiting sergeant
pushed in beside Robin.
“What’s the trouble?” he said, and then, seeing
the showman, “Hullo Brenner!”
The showman looked up and said quickly to the
policeman “All right, I’ll go.” But the young farmer
spoke again. “You’re all right, mate. Stay here and
work your dog. They can’t get you for that.”
“He hasn’t paid ground fees,” the policeman said,
and someone in the crowd called “Do you want a
license fee from a returned soldier?”
The recruiting sergeant, who was a returned man
and in uniform, shouted “Ask him for his discharge
papers. That man never saw a shot fired. He was
kicked out of Egypt for stealing from his mates.”
There was again an angry murmur from the
crowd. The young farmer drove his fist with a
sickening thud into the showman’s face. “You lying
cur!” he said, and was promptly tackled by the foot
constable who had been standing uncertainly beside
his superior. There was a vicious struggle on the
ground, a clink of metal, and the farmer’s hands
were shackled behind his back. The crowd surged
forward threateningly, and again the recruiting ser-
geant spoke.
“I’ll tell you what, boys. If he enlists 1 reckon
the sergeant will let him go.”
“Of course I’ll enlist,” the fellow said.
“That’s what 1 came in for, to join up.”
At a nod from the police sergeant the footman
unlocked the handcuffs, and, seeing he had a good
audience and a proper moment to strike, the recruit-
ing sergeant jumped on a log and started to address
the crowd. The police slipped out quietly, taking the
showman with them.
Robin turned away, disgusted and not knowing
quite why. He had no sympathy with the showman,
but he had been very glad to see the iarmer gel a
rough handling. And yet the boy —for he was little
more—had only given way to quick impulse, not
realising the rottenness of it, for the showrhan’s arms
were held. He had been just as ready a moment
before to attack the police in defence of the man
he had hit. But there was something evil and unre-
strained about the whole business, the breaking-out
of mob sentiment which was artificial, deliberately
engendered by white feathers and posters and other
propaganda. The recruiter had been quick to recog-
nise his opportunity. Robin was not staying to listen
to him.
RAIN was falling lightly when McNamarra started
to sell, but the people had no thought of leaving.
Most of them had heard the recruiter’s speech and
all of them were ready to give. They were in a happy
mood and McNamarra wasted no time explaining the
objects of the sale. The ground had been prepared
for him.
The auction went with a swing. Fruit, vegetables,
wheat, corn, poultry and stock were sold and resold
again and again, each new purchaser shouting “Put it
up again!”
A Malwa flock ram, worth at the most five
guineas, was sold many times until it realised thirty
pounds. Then Jim Mumford stepped up to the
auctioneer. McNamarra bent down to hear what he
had to say and straightened up with a surprised grin
on his face.
“Mr. Mumford,” he said, “has generously offered
to auction for the Cause his champion, the Bee.”
There was a roar from the crowd, for everyone
knew what Mumford called his horse.
“The bee that made the champion honey!” old
Jim shouted, and the crowd laughed again.
Robin said to Bob Hare, standing beside him, “1
never thought the old man would sell him. I’m going
to buy—and I’m not putting him up again either.”
“I wish I had a few quid to spare,” Hare said.
“You wouldn’t get him for nothing.”
“I haven’t any quids to spare,” Robin said, “but
I want that horse.”
The auction started at fifteen pounds and worked
up quickly. Bob Hare nudged Robin.
“Look who’s against you,” he said. “Over the
other side —Gillie Brain.”
“Then he’ll have to go a lot higher,” Robin said,
and shouted “Thirty-eight pounds.”
“Forty!” came from Brain.
Robin was aware that Mumford was pulling at
his arm.
“Don’t bid,” the old man said.
“Why?”
“I said don’t bid. And I meant it!”
Robin was puzzled. The horse was worth fifty
pounds if he was worth a shilling., but old Jim rhust
be up to some devilry. Rather reluctantly he backed
away into the crowd where McNamarra couldn’t see
him, and heard the agent call “Sold to Mr. Brain!
Will I put him up again, sir?”
“No,” Gillie said. “I don’t buy a horse like that
every day.”
Mumford had stepped up beside the auctioneer.
“A horse!” he said. “I didn’t sell a horse. I
sold a bee—the bee that made the champion honey.
Since he offered such a good price, Mr. Brain can
have the whole hive.”'
It was useless for Gillie to protest. The crowd
was against him. The money was not going into
Mumford’s pocket —it was for the Red Cross. With
what grace he could. Brain accepted his misfortune.
Turning to McNamarra, he growled “Well, sell the
damn’ thing.”
“Once again! What price the champion bee?
LOOKING very wet and draggled, Janet came to
the Lammas car. Her arms were full of parcels.
She’d had a glorious day, she told Nancy, and hadn’t
a bob left.


“The boss,” she said, “came last in the married
men’s race —’e would run in ’is spurs and boots —
but ’e copped the greasy pig.”
In evidence of this victory Robin came up
now, covered in mud, with a squealing sucker under
his arm.
“There’s a bag under the back seat,” he said.
“Give it to me. There’s no one left to buy this —-
we’ll have to lake it home.”
The car left at once, but it was some time before
Robin could get away, for he had his horses to see
to. Just as he was going Villa came to him, leading
Mumford’s black horse. He held out the halter to
Robin.
“The boss said to bring him to you,” he said.
“Why?”
“God knows! But he wants you to keep him.
Says he’ll send you a receipt in the morning so’s every-
thing’ll be 0.K.”
Chapter XI.
picture that would stay with
1 Robin for ever was a stamping
foot. A foot covered with a heavy
boot at the end of a forward-
plunging leg ; the toe turned up, the iron-
shod heel driving down with vicious force to Schreiber’s
bare chest, just where the ribs arch up over the belly.
There were other parts of the picture which he would
remember more vaguely. The room, the overturned
table, the faces—especially Gillson Brain’s with blood
running from the long gash on his cheek where the
whiplash had caught him —and the boy, whom he
knew now as his son, crouched beside the wall, his
eyes mad with pain and terror. But these were indis-
tinct, blurred, like the details in a photograph taken
by a child. Only clearly in focus were the descending
feet and the laboring chest of the man who lay on
the floor.
It seemed to his mind, clear and ice-cold in this
moment of frenzied passion, that all the hate of the
world was concentrated in that uplifted foot. It
hung suspended for an interminable second while he
struggled vainly to force his way through the press
of the people. He was too late. The heel smashed
down into the helpless body at the base of the breast-
bone, and the breath was forced from Schreiber’s
lungs in a hideous, grunting gasp. Then Robin struck.
He must have watched the man’s face as he hit
it, for his blow landed true as a hair on the point
of the out-thrust chin, but he had no recollection of
it, and afterwards could not say who the man was.
His eyes, it seemed, came back instantly to the figure
on the floor and the foot.
Again there was a distorted sense of time. The
boot turned, incredibly slowly, on the white flesh,
turned and rose in the air, disappearing out of the line
of Robin’s vision as he dropped on his knees beside
the German.
SINCE the carnival Robin had as far as possible
avoided Croy. The expression of mob-feeling he
had seen had renewed his dislike of people in the
mass and towns. He knew, too, that he was unpopular
in the township because of his open support of the
proposed conscription legislation. He had made no
secret of his opinions, and was surprised to find that
he was almost alone in his belief, and that the feeling
against conscription was bitter in the extreme. So
intense was it that the few who did favor compulsory
service were afraid to admit it. Most of them had
business interests in the town, and anticipated boycott
and even personal violence should they be rash enough
to let their views be known.
There was to be a referendum in October. Men
came to the town to speak in favor of conscription ;
but they were howled down, counted out, and their
meetings disorganised by excited groups of men and
women. There were, too, many instances of mob
attacks on individuals. Such attacks were especially
noticeable against people of German extraction or
German sympathies. The inconsistency of this never
seemed to strike any one. The mass hate was aroused ;
it didn’t seem to matter much against what it was
directed. In Robin these happenings roused an
antagonism no less bitter, but his loathing of crowds
and rioting kept him away from Croy, and almost
certainly out of serious trouble.
He had heard little of the Schreibers for some
time, and what he had heard had not been reassuring.
It was rumored that Schreiber was trying to sell his
property. The feeling against him in the district was
very strong, especially in Croy itself, and the German
practically never came to the township except when
it was necessary to cart wheat to the railway or take
home stores. On such occasions Clare and the boy,
now five years old, were left behind. Once again
Robin considered trying to get Carl as a share-farmer.
He needed another man, and thought that if Schreiber
were on Lammas things would go much easier for
him. He was, too, an excellent farmer.
Robin believed there would be no danger of his
drifting again into foolish intimacy with Clare. He had
really seen nothing of her since leaving Malwa, and
though he thought of her always with a good deal of
affection there was no latent spark of passion in him
which nearness to her could possibly stir to flame. He
was glad that he had never spoken to Myrna of his
old friendship with Clare. He would never tell her
now. The time for such confessions had long gone
by, and, had she known of it, it would, have made
her uneasy, if not suspicious, of his interest in the
Schreibers. Myrna knew they had been the first share-
farmers on Malwa, and could share Robin’s indig-
nation at the hardships which were being forced on
them. The fact that Carl was a German was of no
importance to her, and she would, Robin knew, do
her utmost to make Clare’s life happier should they
come to Lammas as share-farmers.
He was thinking of this as he rode into Croy
after giving delivery of a small mob of fat cattle to
the local butcher. He thought he would go to see
the Schreibers, who lived only three miles out, before
he went home, and try to persuade Carl to come to
him straightway. There was a cottage ready for
the second farmer on Lammas, and if Schreiber could
not sell his place he might be able to lease it until
the war was over and public sentiment had lost its
bitterness.
He turned his horse into the stableyard of Bella
Milsom’s hotel. Frost, the butcher, would be down in
a minute to pay for the cattle. Robin would have a
drink with him and then go on. He had no wish to
stay in Croy.
Inside the yard he saw Schreiber’s buggy with
a pair of half-draughts hitched to it. This would
save him a ride, he thought. Carl must be somewhere
near. He looked around, but there was no one about.
Then he was aware of Clare coming through the back
door, running. At the same time she saw him and
threw out her arms as though to draw him to her
more quickly. Hardly knowing why, he dropped the
reins over his horse’s head and started himself to run.
Clare was standing quite still now. There was some-
thing weird, frightening, in her mute appeal.
“What is it?” he said. “Quickly!”
Words came from her in a rush, tumbling over
in a babble of incoherent sound. “Kill,” he caught—
“they’re killing him!”
“Where?” he asked. “Try to tell me quietly. Is
Carl in trouble?”
“Not Carl. The boy! Klaus . . . your boy!”
He shook her by the shoulders.
“What are you trying to say? Tell me where
to go.”
She was pushing him now towards the door.
“In the commercial room,” she said —and then:
“ He's your son 1”
tty OUR SON!” The words were ringing through
• his head as he ran down the long corridor. Soon
a roar of angry voices came to him. A door at the
end of the passage burst open, and he could see men
—a confusion of moving backs, some with coats on,
most of them shirt-covered. Dropping his stockwhip,
he forced his way into the struggle, using hands and
shoulders.
The large room seemed full of men. For a
moment he could not tell what was happening, and
then, in a far corner, he saw Carl Schreiber, his shirt
torn half off, blood on his face, fighting desperately
to stay on his feet. To the left of Schreiber he saw
Gillson Brain with a chair raised above his head, and
a little way along the wall, in imminent danger from
trampling feet, Klaus, the five-year-old boy.
Again Robin plunged forward, and even as he
moved the chair came down on Schreiber*s forehead
and the German fell backwards with his arms flung
wide.
Robin made straight for Gillson Brain. Schreiber
was out of sight now, on the floor, and Brain was
moving away. Robin thought, with a flare of savage
joy, “By God, he’s coming my way! He’ll be close
to me soon!” He heard something hiss, and over
his shoulder flew the black belly of a striking whip.
Whoever was handling that whip in the crowded room
was no novice. It snaked out full length, ending, with
a vicious crack on Gillie’s half-turned face, and Robin
saw the blood spurt from it as he had seen it spurt
from the muzzle of a charging steer. Then it was
that he saw Carl Schreiber again—and the stamping
foot.
ROBIN became aware that the room had emptied.
There was no one in it now but himself and
Schreiber and Clare bending over the boy and Bella
Milsom standing by the upturned table, a stockwhip
curled on her arm. He learnt later that after the first
swinging crack she had cleared the room with the
loaded handle. But of this he had seen nothing.
Carl’s breath was coming back in rasping, painful
groans. Robin had no idea how badly the man was
hurt. He was conscious, though for a while Robin
believed him dead. Bella had gone across to Clare.
She came over to him now.
“The boy’s leg is broken,” she said. “I’ll ring
the doctor. Get them into a room —any one you can
find empty. I’ll send Tom to help you with him.”
Clare told Robin that she and her husband and
Klaus had been ready to leave town ; they were, in
fact, in the buggy, when someone —she believed it was
Gillie Brain but was not sure —had come out from
the pub and called Carl in. When her husband did
not soon come back she became impatient and had
sent Klaus to find him. But the boy had hardly left
when she became frightened and had followed him.
She did not know who had hurt Klaus nor how he
had managed to get so far into the room. When she
came there she could hear him screaming but could
not see him. She had tried to force her way to him
but someone had thrown her roughly into the passage.
There she had found Bella trying to ring the police
station and had herself started running for help.
Robin wanted to speak to her about Klaus, but
could not with Carl on the bed in the same room, and
then Bella came in and told him that the doctor would
not come. Robin was furious.
“Why?” he asked. “Where does he live, and
what’s his name? I’ve never met him.”
“Cartwell. He has the same house as Dr. Spencer
had, at the end of the town, on the Gap road. He’s
an old man. I think he’s afraid of the people.”
“Rot! ” Robin exploded, and went out to see him.
He found the doctor most unprepossessing. A
man who looked shaken with drug,s. His face was
sly and his clothes and hands were dirty. At first
Cartwell refused point-blank to come. Then he started
to hedge.
“Bring them here,” he said. “I have no car.”
“Heavens, man!” Robin shouted at him. “It’s
not a quarter of an hour’s walk from here! ”
“But everyone in the town will see me going
and know whom I’m going to see.” A new excuse
occurred to him. “They’ve got no money. Who’s
going to pay me?”
“I will.” Robin’s patience was nearly exhausted.
“The boy’s leg is broken above the ankle. Get what
you need and come straight away.”
They walked together to the hotel. There were
many people about the streets, and someone shouted
“Bloody conscriptionist! ” He heard Clare’s name
mentioned and then laughter, but no one tried to stop
them. He could not see anything of Gillie Brain, but
amongst a group of men close to McNamarra’s office
he recognised Frank Martin, who had been share-
farming on Malwa before Robin was married. It
was from here that the laughter had come and the
reference to Clare, though he could not catch what
was said.
He tried to think who had been in the room, but
the only face he could remember was Gillson Brain’s.
His resentment was entirely against the townspeople—
loafers and odd-job men and small shopkeepers—
though this was unreasonable, for Gillie had been one
of them, if not the ringleader, and Carl had already
been molested by his neighbors on the land. He
wondered where Martin was living now. The farmer’s
term on Malwa must have expired, and Robin was
sure his father would not have the man again.
His emotions kept following through successive
stages, exactly as they had come to him after he had
left his horse in the stableyard. First, anxiety at seeing
Clare; then shock as she spoke of Klaus as his son,
then hot rage when he was striving to come close to
Gillie, and, finally, cold, bitter hate countering the mob-
hate of the people. Gradually all emotions but the
last were being eliminated. He could never have
believed that such hatred could be his. The war was
directly to blame, he thought; but the roots of bitter-
ness went deeper still. He loathed the town and
everything in it, and the railway that had brought
it there, and progress that was altering the country—-
his country, taking away its breadth, moulding it into
a place of commerce, of little holdings for little people.
It was not his district any more. The name of Stewart
was hardly known in Croy, and newcomers —men like
Jones, the storekeeper, who had no kinship with the
land —names which had not been associated with the
district four years, let alone four generations, were
coming to power.
IN a moment of despondency Robin felt there was
no longer place for him or his kind here. Malwa
was lost to him. And what was Lammas? Lammas,
which he himself was turning into a collection of small
farms. He had never felt affection for the place as
he had for Malwa or even for Naranbah. He felt it
had played him false. He had come there with hopes
and ideals so high ; but one by one they were going
from him, dying. The land meant nothing to Myrna.
He knew she was out of sympathy with it, did not
try to understand its moods or its people. She loved
the house, perhaps, as she would have loved any
home that was secure and comfortable, but he was
certain she would have been infinitely happier in some
city suburb. This, he thought, would never be —at
least for him. If he left Lammas he would go further
out; take more land, wider areas, away from towns
and railways. Myrna could live near the city if she
wished, but she would not drag him there.
He pulled himself up with a jerk. The idea of liv-
ing away from Myrna had never come clearly to his
mind before, but now it was almost as though he had
wished something like this would happen. It had
followed so naturally from his other reasoning that
he was prepared to believe this thought, too, had been
in the back of his mind for a long while. He could
not let himself dwell on it. Fie owed so much happi-
ness to Myrna. Their lives were bound together by
associations, memories, which were almost as dear
to him as memories of Malwa. The school chapel, the
river, books; his fight to keep her when everything
was against him. Neither could he forget the over-
powering passion of his early love.
He wondered if the feeling he had once had for
Clare Schreiber could be called love. At the time he
would not have admitted it, but now he was not so
sure. Love was an impossible word. It meant so
much and so little. You loved mustering a bad horse ;
you loved a piece of music ; the feeling was intense,
happy, all-absorbing for the moment. And if love
of people was deeper, more lasting, there was still
no other word for it. And Clare had borne him a
son. He had no doubt of this, though the knowledge
had come to him as a great shock. Klaus Klaus
Schreiber —five years old —a half-brother to Margaret
and Kathleen! A son whom he could never acknow-
ledge. But he could and would look after him ; send
him to school; keep him always under his eye.
He was more than ever determined to make
Schreiber come to Lammas. In a little while, he
thought, Klaus and Myrna’s daughters would be
playing together. Margaret and Kathleen and Klaus
playing together, and no one to know their relation-
ship but Clare and himself. Klaus Schreiber a
German!
He gave a harsh laugh, which caused Cartwell
to look up to him in surprise. They were close to
the hotel now.
ROBIN walked into McNamarra’s office. There
were several people in the room, and amongst
them he noticed Jim Coulter.
“I want your car for half an hour,” he said to
the agent. “I’m going to take the Schreibers home.
Carl is not fit to drive.” Then, turning to Coulter:
“Jim, will you take Schreiber’s buggy out to their
farm? I’ll bring you back in the car. I’m asking
you to do this for me, not for Schreiber.”


“All right.” Coulter stood up, moving slowly
as his habit was, but without hesitation. “I’ve got
nothin’ ag’in Carl, squarehead an’ all.”
Here, Robin thought, was one of the old hands,
one of the type he knew.
DRIVING back from Schreiber’s farm, he felt more
at ease. Carl was coming to Lammas. He told
Robin that he had sold his property. The sale had
actually been arranged that day in Croy. The new
purchaser was Jones. It seemed that Schreiber owed
a big store bill, and had bought machinery and horse-
feed from the storekeeper. There was also a heavy
mortgage on the property which Jones would now
take over. Schreiber was relieved to let the place go.
He would be clear of debt, though, except for more
horses and a bigger plant; he would be back to the
same financial standing as when he had started at
Malwa. Jones, of course, was getting the farm at
little more than half-price.
On the way in Robin stopped at the police station.
He wanted to report the attack on Carl so that the
police could take action at once. That they would
treat the matter seriously he had no doubt. He was
amazed and enraged at his reception. The mounted
sergeant was away, and the foot constable, a new
man to Robin, seemed to treat the matter very casually
and was disinclined to do anything. Robin lost his
temper. .
“Wherever your personal sympathies may lie,”
he said hotly, “it’s your duty to take the matter up.”
“I don’t need you to tell me my duty,” the man
said. “Who are you anyway?”
“Stewart!” Robin said in surprise. “Robin
Stewart, of Lammas.”
“H’m!” the man growled. “I’ve heard of you.
You’re the chap who’s been shooting his mouth off
about conscription. Well, you might be a little tin god
out there, but you don’t run this town. Anyway,
what business is it of yours? Schreiber can lay a
charge if he wants to. You say you don’t even know
who was there. Sounds fishy to me.”
“I tell you I saw one man plainly—Gillson Brain
—hit Schreiber over the head with a chair. Isn’t that
enough for you?”
“Well,” the man growled, “I can’t do nothing till
the sergeant gets back. Do you expect me to leave the
town and walk out to Burnt Plains and arrest Brain?”
“Oh, hell!” Robin said in disgust. “I don’t
expect you to do anything. When will Leroy be
back?”
“Not for two days. He’s on patrol.”
Robin left the police station. Leroy had a big
district to patrol, but if the trooper was gathering
stock statistics he might call at Lammas before return-
ing to Croy. It was, however, a week before Robin
saw the sergeant, whom he liked.
“I’d let it drop,” Leroy told him then. “Schreiber
and the boy are right enough now, and he doesn’t
want to take any action. You’d do him no good,
and for your own sake it’s better to let things die
down. There was a lot of talk in Croy just after the
row. Nothing came direct to me, but I knew about
it.” He looked hard at Robin. “They were giving
reasons for your particular interest in the Schreibers.”
ROBIN was to receive yet another jar before he
left Croy. When he returned the agent’s car
McNamarra took him into his private office.
“Robin,” he said, “where’s your horse?”
“At Milsom’s pub. Why?”
“W'ell, get Jim Coulter to bring it down here and
slip away quietly. They’re talking of running you
out of town.”
“Running me out of Croy / By God, they
won’t!”
“Don’t be a fool! ”
McNamarra caught Robin’s arm, but he flung
the hand off and walked to the door.
“I’m staying for the night,” he said. “Let them
start something if they want to.”
On the verandah of the office he saw Coulter and
Martin Harroway’s three brothers. They were all
big men, the three Harroways all over six feet. Sam,
the eldest brother, lounged over to Robin.
“There’s talk of trouble,” he said. “We don’t
go much on conscription, but we reckon we’ll see you
through if you want to stay in town for a while.”
There was a pleasureable gleam in his eye. “Harry
Devine’s around somewhere ; he’s a good man in
holts.”
Robin laughed. The whole sordid business had
turned suddenly to farce. He looked around at his
very formidable bodyguard.
“We could clean up the whole damn’ town if
we wanted to,” he said, “but I’m off now. Some of
you will be riding my way, and we’re all going to
have a drink before we start.”
Chapter XII.
IN October conscription was rejected at
a referendum. It was in October, too,
just at the end of shearing, that
Robin received word that the Naran-
bah leases would be resumed immediately.
The actual notice of resumption he had been expecting
for a week or two, but the first intimation that he
would lose his land came like a bolt from the blue.
A chance remark of Taylor’s was the first he heard
of it. At Naranbah, since Allsop had left, he had
employed two young fellows, graduates from some
technical college, with Taylor nominally in charge;
but through the shearing he had lived at the home-
stead himself. Taylor had growled that in two places
there were trees over the boundary fence, trees which
had evidently been cut with an axe, and, riding out
to investigate, Robin had found a surveyors camp,
and had been told by the man in charge that he was
acting under orders to run the boundaries of all the
Naranbah leases and to report on improvements
ringbarking, suckering, fencing and water.
Robin did not need the surveyor to tell him what
this meant. Though in the natural course of events
all his leases had years to run, he knew that the
Government had power to resume at any time. But
with wide areas of accessible, fertile land available in
the district, he was amazed to think that Naranbah
should be the first of the big holdings to go. It was
perhaps understandable, for it was cheaper to call
in lease land than to pay for freehold ; and the suit-
ability of land for closer settlement, he thought with
angry impatience, would be of little moment to office-
bound bureaucrats. Naranbah was rough country,
hard to come to and most unfitted for farming. It
was, too, quite a distance from the railway.
He spoke of this to Fenn, the surveyor, not
troubling to hide his annoyance, both at the loss of
his land and the fact that Fenn had not had the
courtesy to call at the homestead before starting work.
“We have only been in camp a day,” the surveyor
told him. “Haven’t really started yet. One of the
men dropped a couple of trees yesterday to get a
sight, but you needn’t worry about the fence, we’ll
fix that up all right.” .
“Yesterday!” Robin snapped. “You’ve had time
to put a new fence up by now! You’ll find both
trees cut and turned and the fence mended. My
men were on to it first thing this morning.”
“You were in a hell of a hurry about it.”
“What do you think I’d do? Wait till half the
stock were out in the Corner? I’ve lost too many
sheep from here already.”
“Then you won’t be losing any more.”
“It won’t be your fault if I don’t. With a little
trouble both those trees could have been dropped
away from the fence. In future if you break the
wire mend it at once. Don’t just hook it up, either.
Strain it. And don’t report the fence as defective
if your own men smash it up.”
“I’ll watch my report all right,” was the sur-
veyor’s parting shot as Robin rode away.
When he had cooled down Robin knew he had
been a fool. On Fenn’s report would lie his only
claim for compensation—the value of the improve-
ments. He could, of course, decline to accept the
surveyor’s valuation and fight the matter out in the
Land Court, but it would have been much wiser to
have the surveyor for him than against him. The
provocation, he thought, had been extreme, though
Fenn was hardly to blame, and must have been sur-
prised and rightly annoyed at Robin’s arrogant tone.
The broken fence was really of no consequence, and
no doubt Fenn had intended to call in due course at
the homestead.
It was only when he received official notice oi:
resumption that he realised how serious his position
had become. The season had turned bad and threatened
to be worse. Since autumn there had been practically
no rain. '"Stock prices had come down with a rush,
and were still dropping He had bought ahead, and
bought high, and now both Naranbah and Lammas
were stocked to their full capacity. He would lose
the leases, he was informed, in January. This gave
him barely three months to make arrangements for
the disposal of his stock. With the leases gone, all
that would be left of Naranbah would be five thousand
acres of freehold, and this would be divided into two
areas ten miles apart. The largest of these was the
one block on the property without permanent water,
and the homestead portion, with house, big woolshed,
dip, outbuildings and stockyards, would become a
ridiculous incongruity—the working heart of a com-
paratively large grazing property, crammed within the
of a pocket-handkerchief farm.
Ti thought of it drove him to fury. He would
.ave to advertise his stock for sale straightway.
__ could not take them elsewhere. He was already
up to the limit of his overdraft with the bank, and
even if money were available it would be extremely
hard to find agistment country. Three months in
the middle of a drought to dispose of twenty thousand
sheep —sixteen thousand if he left four thousand on
Lammas! Who was going to buy them? And at
what price? There was nothing left, too, but to sell
the freehold portion of Naranbah —and, again, who
was going to buy it? It was utterly useless to him
now, and would be the same to anyone else.
For some time Mr. Kingswood had been urging
him to reduce the overdraft, fussing around, Robin
thought, like an agitated hen. When Robin’s loan
had been extended Kingswood had given the bank
to understand that the extra debt was a temporary
matter, the money needed to tide Robin over until
returns came in for wheat and. wool. But now, at
the end of the year, he was in a worse position than
he had been before. Though last season’s wheat crop
had been good, the selling of the grain had presented
a grave problem. Because of the war overseas ship-
ping was very limited, and in order to meet the diffi-
culty the Government had instituted a wheat pool.
Agents were appointed at country centres to receive
the grain, and payments were made to farmers in
periodic dividends.
Though it seemed the only practical solution to
the problem, it meant that growers received their
money in dribs and drabs, and had to wait a long
time before realising any profit on the year’s trans-
actions. It was a difficult time for small owners and
for share-farmers, most of whom had store bills to
meet and instalments to pay on machinery. It was
hard, too, for Robin, who was hoping for quick repay-
ment of the money he had spent on land improve-
In an endeavor to make up for the withheld wheat
money he had for the first time definitely gambled in
stock, buying forward in expectation of a rise. But
what he had believed was a rising market had actually
reached its top, and when in the early winter the
drooping season had turned hard and dry prices came
tumbling down. He was forced to sell hurriedly on
a falling market to make room for the stock he must
take over in the spring. Though he showed no actual
loss on stock he was then selling, it meant that he
was replacing them with sheep purchased at nearly
twice their present value, and instead of reducing his
overdraft he had stretched it to the very limit. This
would not have worried him unduly had he been able
to hold his stock, for Naranbah, with its water and
abundance of top-feed, was almost drought-proof.
Such was the position when he received notice
of resumption. It was obvious that unless the season
broke he was faced with a very heavy loss. From
Mr. Kingswood he could get neither encouragement
nor reasonable advice. The bank manager seemed
in a panic, afraid that Robin’s misfortune would reflect
on his own judgment.
“But you told me,” he said plaintively, “that after
the wheat and the shearing money came in you would
be all right, would be able to reduce the overdraft.
Now it looks as if you wanted to increase it. You’ve
a bill to meet to-morrow—eight hundred pounds—that
will bring you within a few pounds of your limit.
Have you any cheques out? If so, either we can’t
meet the bill or your cheques will have to go back.”
“There’s nothing out of any consequence,” Robin
said, “and I want that bill paid. There should be
a wheat dividend due soon, and in any case I won’t
exceed my limit. Also my wool is in store now.”
“You won’t be able to play with that money even
when the wool is sold. It’s covered by the stock mort-
gage, for one thing.” Mr. Kingswood shook down
his shirt cuffs. “And you seem to have forgotten the
interest.” . .
“Good heavens, man! I’ve only just paid interest.
It will be months before it’s due again.”
“I don’t know what Head Office will say. I gave
them a wonderful report about you. You’ve let me
down, Robin!”
“D’you think I’m God Almighty—or the Minister
for Lands? Could anyone in the country have anti-
cipated a wheat pool and a war and a drought and
loss of my land at just this time?” With an effort
Robin controlled his rising temper. “I’m going to
Sydney. I’ll see the general manager myself. There’s
nothing for you to worry about —I’ll see that you are
not blamed.”
“You won’t do much good that way,” Kingswood
said gloomily. “They’ll call me a ‘foolish prophet,’
for one thing.”
ROBIN’S visit to Sydney was fruitless. He was
received by the general manager with suave
affability and quickly passed on to the manager ot
Head Office and thence to an inspector. The bank
could not help him further. The circumstances were
unfortunate, but the sale of his stock would reduce
his debt to a more convenient sum, and the matter
of a further loan for restocking the depleted holding
could be considered then. It was in vain that Robin
pointed out the state of the present market. After
all, the inspector told him, the bank was as interested
in the sale as he, and if the bank was satisfied with
present prices...
“But your security is good,” Robin said.
“It’s not altogether the material security that
counts with us,” the inspector said. “It’s the man.
If your father would guarantee your account we might
reconsider the matter. But for your own sake it would
be better to lessen the debt, not increase it. Really,
you know, you’re very young —and you haven’t shown
much understanding of money matters. We hear
things, you know. Was it wise, with your liabilities,
to give so largely to patriotic funds, or to play fairy
godmother to every Cinderella in the district? You’re
not a teetotaller, are you? And you have quite a
reputation as a poker-player.” He joined his fingers
together and smiled over his glasses at Robin. “Poker
is an expensive game to learn, as 1 know to my cost.
I was young myself once.”
IN the train coming home Robin thought “Ihat’s
over. There’s nothing left but to sell.” He would
not ask help from his father. Having so decided he
pushed the trouble from him, dreading, as he always
dreaded, self-pity and scorning what he considered
useless brooding over something past and unalter-
able, believing he had done with it, though in reality
he was storing it in that strange lumber-room of his
mind where lay so many things—early hopes, his
yearning for Malwa, his grief for Boyd. One by one
he was to drag them out in later years, alone in deso-
late places, using them as desperate antidotes to a
greater pain which would not still.
He lay tossing in his bunk as the train ran on
through the night. At last he sat up, pressing his
face against the cold glass of the window, staring
into the gloom. He was thinking of his quarrel with
Myrna. Their first quarrel, really, for it was the first
time that both had been unbending. What resentment
had he been laying by in his heart unconsciously
until a word had released the flood and it had poured
from him in a tumbling torrent, his tongue a vehicle
all too slow for his impetuous thoughts? She had
been amazed—stunned by the vehemence of his anger
as by a physical blow. Then her own pride had
held her firm, and she had lashed him with cold, bitter
truths. He had admired her then—more, probably,
than he had ever done—but he had loved her less.
“Am I to go on,” he asked her savagely, “making
allowances for your stupidity and ignorance, begging
forgivenness to satisfy your self-esteem for faults which
exist only in your imagination?”
She told him, striking more shrewdly than she
knew, “It is not from me you should ask forgivenness
but from your children.”
He had gone from her, shaken with passion,
physically sick and loathing himself. Life then life
with Myrna at Lammas—had seemed impossible. It
was no more bearable now.
He thought wearily that there was a way cut ot
this seeming impasse. Long ago he had discovers


it, and till now had been able to use it with an amused
tolerance. It had started through his habit of leaving
a problem half solved, making too readily a compro-
mise with circumstance, an easy if temporary escape
from unpleasantness. He must go back to Myrna as
poor human creatures are instructed to approach God
— “Oh, Lord, 1 acknowledge my transgressions and my
sins are ever before me.” Then there would be
gracious acceptance, a little gentle reproach, a lot
of mothering.
His hands closed into fists, and he banged them
with restrained force against the window, as a prisoner
would strike with weak hopelessness against the bars
of his cell. He had had enough of reproach. He
didn’t want mothering.
How different it would be if he were going back
to Nancy—no troubles would matter then.
He made the comparison deliberately, and real-
ised that he had done so before often, but never openly
to himself as now. Nancy would know without being
told, would sympathise without talking about it. If
he did foolish things, hurtful things, there would be
no reproaches spoken or unspoken. She was a rebel
herself. She would transgress with gusto —healthy,
robust sins—with him or against him. There would
be no talk of forgiveness between them. She would
tell him to go to hell if need be, with vigor no less
than his own. And then he would ... His mind
stumbled and checked, afraid to go on, afraid to
imagine even vaguely supreme joy which could never
be his.
Before morning reaction came. He saw his way
clear before him, running into the unknown future,
straight and hard and steep, but the only way.
Chapter XIII .
FROM the verandah Myrna called to
the three children in the garden.
She had a plate of bread and
butter liberally sprinkled with
hundreds-and-thousands. The tiny red-
and-white sweets had only arrived that morning. The
children had never seen them before, and she was
looking forward to their excitement when they should
find their usual eleven-o’clock meal so much more
interesting. She had had to send all the way to
Sydney for the sweets. The Croy storekeepers, to her
astonishment, had never heard of them. Robin, in
the middle of shearing, had come home in a hurry
from Naranbah to send for parts for a mill which had
been wrecked in a windstorm. When he heard of
her disappointment over the sweets he had done a
thing which she thought was typical of him. She heard
him dictating over the telephone a wire to the firm
in Sydney which did most of his supply work.
‘‘Forward immediately one Mast Foos
Millwheel and five pounds hundreds - and-
thousands.”
Evidently Exchange was puzzled, for she heard
him again with annoyed precision:
“Five pounds — hundreds-and-thousands.”
“Yes. Now repeat it. They’re sweets, if you want
to know—red and white, very small, like miniature
sago. What’s the war news?”
She hadn’t known whether he was serious or
laughing. But in due course the hundreds-and-thou-
sands arrived—a great box of them.
SHE never knew when he was serious. He said and
did the most outrageous things on the spur of the
moment, not seeming to care who was there to listen.
He was at times positively embarrassing in front of
the servants, and he and Nancy played up to each
other like a pair of children. She had thought once
that he must have an audience, but this, she knew
now, was not true, and he dfelighted most to tease
her with innuendoes which dealt with intimacies known
only to herself.
She loved him dearly, but he was a most uncom-
fortable person to live with. You never knew what
he would do next, and his moods were like cloud-
shadows drifting over a summer sea. In her marriage
she had wanted more than anything else stability,
certainty, evenness ; and she had been carried into
the middle of a stormy water on a ship which was
“fast and wet” and, to her, utterly unmanageable. She
admitted to herself that she did not know how to cope
with Robin, though she believed that he needed man-
agement, and that it was her duty as a wife and a
mother to gain control.
She had believed, before they were married, that
he was essentially solid ; youthful, of course, but with
a serious regard for life and its problems. His wooing
of her had increased this feeling, showing strength and
tenacity of purpose. But she was now beginning
to fear that what she had taken for strength of purpose
was in reality pigheaded obstinacy and arrogant
reaction to opposition.
He was as fickle as the wind, as turbulent and
shallow as a mountain stream. She had evidence that
his emotions were intense, but she was convinced that
they were evanescent, flaming with sudden fierce heat,
like fire in dry grass, and as quickly dying away. His
attitude to Boyd Freeman’s death had been most
illuminating. It was then she had been convinced
of the shallowness of his nature. That he, who had
professed to love Boyd beyond all ordinary loving,
could have left that letter unopened in a coat pocket
was to her incredible. And now, the momentary sting
of loss, the wicked tragedy of his friend’s death, were
apparently forgotten. He spoke of Boyd freely with
a laugh and a shrug, calling him a sober-sided school-
master, a radical. When Boyd had been killed Robin
had been all of a rush to bring Mrs. Freeman to live
with them, but when this had proved impracticable
he had forgotten her, or so it seemed, for Myrna had
constantly to remind him that he should write to
Boyd’s mother
“I write now and again,” he told her carelessly.
“She has plenty of friends in England now.”
She did not know, for he had shirked telling her,
that every quarter he paid a cheque into Mrs. Free-
man’s account, and that one of his minor worries
now was that these payments would have to stop.
He did impetuous, foolish things with money,
like paying the Schreibers’ doctor’s bill and building
for Martin Harroway, whom she detested, a huge hay-
shed which covered twice as much of the share-
farmer’s hay as it did of Robin’s. It was no use his
protesting that share-farmers might come and go, but
the hayshed remained a part of Lammas. It seemed
to her an unnecessary expense, undertaken because
he liked that brute Harroway, who would get all
the benefit from it.
He kept her in a fever of apprehension, not
knowing from day to day in what fresh difficutly he
would land them. When the news of the Naranbah
resumption had reached her she was beside herself
with anxiety. He had told her clearly all it involved,
but because she could see that he was for once himself
greatly disturbed, she believed he was holding a lot
back. She felt that she must do something, but was
at her wits’ end to know just what. She thought of
going to see his mother and father, but, deciding this
would be disloyal, she had taken her courage in both
hands and had tackled him herself. He would never
know what it cost her to face him at this time. She
was afraid, desperately afraid, of his anger, but for
her children’s sakes —for his sake, for she loved him
better than her happiness—she had stood up to him
in a valiant endeavor to bring him to his senses, to
what she believed was a proper understanding of his
responsibilities.
He had listened to her for a while gravely with
an expressionless face until she believed that at last
he was seeing that she was right—had always been
right. Then, with the unexpected suddenness of a
lightning stroke, he had blasted her with a fury which,
she thought in cold horror, was the rage of a madman.
JU|YRNA smiled happily now as the children came
■ V I clambering on to the verandah, Klaus and
Margaret pushing baby Kathleen up the steps. Klaus
was limping a little, though his leg was quite firmly
knit. She was worried over the boy’s limp. That
wretched creature in Croy might have made a mess
of the setting, though the foot seemed straight enough.
Robin was fond of children and they of him.
No, he was not really mad. His arrogance and sudden
passions were the natural result of a pampered child-
hood and an unrestrained youth. As the only son
of Donald Stewart, of Malwa, the country, people
had worshipped him almost as a god, or so it seemed
to her, and he had accepted this worship and defer-
ence as his undoubted right. Was it any wonder that
he was headstrong and intolerant now —egoistic,
seemingly shallow? He had never been checked. But
if he were allowed to run on like this his character
would be for ever ruined. And who was to check
him? Who but she?
To-morrow he would be home from Sydney, and
she believed, whatever might have happened there,
he would be his own bright self again—terribly sorry
for having been rude to her, ready to make amends.
That would be the time to show him clearly what
he was doing. He would be receptive then, ready
to listen.
He had been cruelly unkind to her, and if she
did not show him now he would ignore the incident,
forget about it, and never know how bitterly he had
hurt her. She was honest in her belief that for herself
it did not matter, but for his own sake he should be
made to understand. And all the time she would
be loving him, loving him with her body and soul,
loving his arms and his eyes and his shamefaced, boy-
ish grin, loving even his headstrong foolishness.
She was watching Klaus Schreiber sitting very
still on the edge of the verandah. He looked forlorn —
a striking contrast to her own happy children. She
had never been able to get from Robin exactly what
had happened in that crowded hotel room. He said
he didn’t know. But she always imagined a haunting
fear in the child’s eyes. They were blue, dark and
clear, like Robin’s. It was pathetic, she thought, that
Robin, with no sons of his own, should have grown
so fond of this little German boy. He was already
talking of sending Klaus to school —to Macquarie—
and would, she felt sure, have adopted him altogether
had the parents been willing. But Carl, too, was
devoted to his son.
She smiled, thinking she knew the reason for
Robin’s interest. The Schreibers were links in the
chain of memories which held him to Malwa. He
had befriended them when every one was against
them. He had fought, she believed, for the boy,
though he had told her it was to save Schreiber
himself.
Nancy Mcßride carried a tea-tray on to the
verandah. She said “Martin Harroway was here
asking for medicine for a sick horse. Nitrate of
silver. I’ll take it down when I drive Klaus home.
Can you give me the keys of Robin’s stock medicine-
chest?”
“They’re on his writing-pad somewhere,” Myrna
said. “His desk is open.”
Nancy gave a quick frown, and caught herself
wondering what right she had to feel annoyance. She
knew Myrna had been writing at the desk. She knew
it would be littered with catalogues and grocery lists
and papers and probably a child’s sock half-knitted ;
and she knew that Robin hated untidiness, hated any-
one using his desk, and would be furious if the roller-
top was left up. It was really no concern of hers ;
and Myrna, she supposed, as Robin’s wife, was privi-
leged. But Myrna was a blind idiot to go on doing
things like this. Nancy knew she was oblivious of
the fact that Robin was irritated by them. It was
no use saying anything, for Myrna was only too ready
to accuse her of taking sides with Robin—and she
was not admitting that there were definite sides to
take. Robin was just as much at fault not to say
straight out this and that must not be, instead of
bottling up his feelings so until the accumulated irri-
tations assumed an entirely disproportionate size.
Perhaps he had done so, and it had passed over
Myrna’s head as something of no importance, leaving
her quite unconscious of what he had said.
She had noticed this attitude of Myrna’s many
times. At first she had been amused by it, and by
Robin’s obvious struggle, quite unnoticed by his wife,
to keep his patience, but lately she had been afraid.
Afraid for Myrna—afraid for Robin—afraid for
herself.
ANCY had been interested in Robin long before
■ ■ she met him. Barney Case had spoken of him
with boyish enthusiasm, and when she knew he was
to marry Myrna Holt, who had been first her teacher
and then her friend, she had been more than ever
intrigued. She had met Robin first at a wild supper
and theatre party with Barney Case, and then at his
wedding, but not until she came to Lammas had she
really known him. From the beginning, since he was
both Barney’s friend and Myrna’s husband, she had
been ready to give him her friendship, but very soon
she was fond of him for his own sake.
From her childhood she had been a mate as
adequate as a boy to her brothers and their friends.
She had always liked men, her cousin Barney Case
better than any, until she knew Robin. But now she
was afraid, very definitely afraid, for she knew that
her feeling for Robin had become more intense than
friendship. The realisation had come to her sud-
denly, when she had discovered Myrna and Robin in
the library, on the day Robin had gone to Sydney.
She had come to the room unthinking, and because
Myrna’s voice was not raised, not querulous as it
usually was when she was taking Robin to task, Nancy
had actually been in the doorway before she realised
what was happening. She had stayed for a moment
only, and it was probable that neither Myrna nor
Robin had been aware of her; but she had heard a
few words of Myrna’s, and she had seen Robin’s face
—expressionless to his wife, but to Nancy’s imagi-
nation, a mirror of surging emotions—and she had
turned away with rage in her heart against Myrna.
Rage, hatred, a wholly animal desire to eliminate this
foolish wife and take for herself what Myrna could
never appreciate, and was even now losing.
It didn’t matter a little bit that Myrna loved him,
or whether Robin was worthy of her love or of any
woman’s love. The one fact clear to her was that
Robin, as he seemed, was not acceptable to Myrna.
She wanted to change him, mould him into something
to her own mind better and stronger. Nancy wanted
him just as he was, neither to praise nor to blame, but
to love and enjoy. Robin would never change. Good
or evil, stable or uncertain, he was bolder, more vigor-
ous than Myrna. He would never go her way, and
if she hesitated about following him he would not
trouble much to force her, but would travel by him-
self, growing yearly more lonely, more secretive, more
self-centred.
She had a quaint mental picture, then, of a man
walking sombrely on a path through a haunted wood
and herself running through the trees, scared of the
shadows and the things which lived in them, scared,
too, to go on to the path and join him. But she knew
that if it came to the point she would go with him,
or even go ahead and meet him on the path.
THE road from Schreiber’s farm ran over a stony
ridge, and, loving the spot, Nancy stopped the car
on the crest and sat there looking down to where
Lammas Creek broke impetuously through a little
rocky gorge to tumble on to the plain and then, the
goal in sight, move on more contentedly to meet the
river. Dark against a cloudless sky, outlined in burn-
ing gold, an eagle was playing in the air currents
which swirled above the valley, rushing headlong down
unseen slopes, rising vertically up and up until momen-
tum failed, turning then slowly, as an arrow would
turn at the apex of its flight, to drop hundreds of feet,
stretching beak and half-closed wings, forming an
exact replica of a broad-barbed arrow-head.
She wondered what joy was given to men which
could compare with this of the eagle ; there could
be no such complete abandon, no pressure of wind
against an unprotected body, no effort of limbs to
turn a headlong fall into a long, sloping glide, and
finally the vertical ascent slowly failing.
She slipped the lever into gear and the car moved
forward. Bernard was a pilot. He had been sent
not to Egypt but to Salonica. He must be there now
—flying. She would tell him about the eagle when
she wrote —and the letter might never reach him. A
horror which was never quite absent took hold of her
now, and she drove homfe quickly, wanting, as she
always wanted at such times, someone near her,
wishing that Robin was home.
Chapter XIV .
itfT’VE never had much to do with
II religion,” Mumford said, “but when
I hear a man like Gayner talkin’
about his ‘duty before God’ I
reckon I’ve a better chance of sneakin’
past St. Peter than he has —and there’s many a man
will say my chance is a slim one.”
Robin made no reply, but swung the car at the
crossroads and took the long bridge which spanned
the river three miles out of Clune. Another five miles


and they would cross the watershed, and the sprawling
town would be out of sight, he hoped, for many
months.
Mumford had come readily to give evidence for
him in the Land Court, and driving in that morning
Robin had thoroughly enjoyed the old man’s com-
pany ; but just now he would much rather have been
alone. He was depressed, disappointed with the
Court’s ruling regarding compensation for the Naran-
bah leases, and furious at the policy the Government
proposed to adopt in subdividing the property. It
was against the practical advice of both Mumford
and himself—against all reason.
Before Court opened that morning Robin had
had an interview with Fenn, the surveyor, in a small
room in the court-house.
“The Board has suggested,” Fenn said, “that if
we had a talk together over improvement values we
could come to an amicable agreement and save time
arguing the matter in Court. Now, as regards ring-
barking and suckering”...
From the beginning Robin could see that the
surveyor was antagonistic and had not forgotten the
brush they had had at the Naranbah boundary two
months before. The values he put on the improve-
ments were, to Robin’s mind, ridiculous. Where
fencing was concerned they did arrive at a figure
which, though considerably below Robin’s estimate,
he was willing to accept; but with the other improve-
ments —water-conservation, troughing, and especially
ringbarking and suckering Robin knew that Fenn
was undervaluing.
“You say the area joining Mundowie has been
rung twice and suckered four times,” Fenn said.
“You don’t expect the Board to believe that was
necessary.”
“Of course it was necessary,” Robin protested.
“It wasn’t done in my time, I know, but Mumford
is here to give evidence confirming this.”
“Mumford! What do you think his word’s
worth—even on oath? Has he brought receipts or
any direct evidence that the work was done?”
“Oh, it’s no use arguing any more about it,”
Robin said wearily. “You won’t listen to reason.
Except as regards fencing, I can’t accept your valua-
tions. I’ll have to go into Court.”
“It would save a lot of time and trouble if you
were reasonable now.”
“No doubt!” Robin snapped. “I don’t want to
save trouble either for myself or for you. I want
fair compensation. You’re allowing practically no-
thing for water development, except for the overshot
dam.”
“All natural springs. You didn’t put them there.”
“They have to be opened up. And the troughing ;
there’s miles of it.”
“Hollow logs cut in the bush. Half of them are
rotten now.”
“Wherever the troughs have rotted there are
natural channels clayed up at the sides, some of them
cemented, and perfectly efficient. Think what it
would cost to start from scratch and do all that work
now.”
“That’s hardly the point. The present worth of
the logs is practically nil.”
“But it is the point. The only point. The value
to be considered is the value of the water as it is at
present, the money spent and the years of work needed
to bring it to this state of usefulness.”
“I’m afraid you’re wrong, at least as far as I’m
concerned, and I believe the Board will take the same
view. My job is to report on tangible assets as they
exist right now. If you’d put in new iron troughing,
say, a few months ago, you’d have been paid full
value for it; but logs that have rotted in wet ground
for two generations! Where’s your logic?”
In Court Mumford had been prepared to swear
anything, to give any evidence which would help
Robin. The truth would have sufficed had the Board
been prepared to listen to argument. As it was, Robin
knew very quickly that this calling of witnesses was
a waste of time.
* Afterwards old Jim had remarked, with rather
doubtful aptness, “If Ananias and Sapphira had gone
into the box they wouldn’t have believed them!”
SEEING it was useless, Robin had wasted little time
in argument before the Land Board, accepting the
inevitable. But for the sake of the men who would in
future be expected to earn a living from Naranbah he
had felt compelled to protest against the ridiculously
inadequate areas into which the Government proposed
to divide the land.
“I really don’t see what this is all about, Mr.
Stewart,” the president, had said. “Nothing
has been decided as to subdivision or areas. Nor do
I see that it affects you in any way.”
“Naturally I thought you would be interested to
hear the opinions of men who knew the place,” Robin
said hotly. “Mine and Mumford’s.”
“Did we ask for it?”
“No, but you have been speaking of Naranbah
as a farming area and comparing it with Mount
Henry, which the Government acquired last year. I
know both properties well, and they are in no way
comparable.”
“Really! This is interesting. We are, of course,
grateful for your information, but did it never strike
you that the Government might have advisers whose
experience is possibly wider than yours?”
“And do they advise growing wheat on those
basalt hills? Do they advise dividing the land into
areas of five hundred acres? On one block the
fifteen thousand acres west of Tucka-Bil we have
never been able to run more than five thousand sheep,
and that number only for six months put of the year.
Are you going to subdivide that? As a farming
proposition the whole property is impossible. There
are pockets, of course, flats tucked away amongst the
hills, but no one will ever get farming machinery to
them —or wheat away if it is grown there.”
The tragedy of settling men new to this country
—some of them probably new to the land itself —on
restricted areas seemed to Robin a very real one. He
knew he was right, whatever the president might say.
Fenn had told him that the proposed areas would be no
larger than those into which Mount Henry had been
divided. Upset as he was at his own treatment, what
riled Robin most was the thought that Naranbah,
which at least had made a living for him and the men
he employed, would almost certainly now be the ruin
of many.
“God help the poor devils who are saddled with
these blocks! ”he said. “The country, sooner or later,
will have to pay for this criminal folly.”
ROBIN realised they were approaching Croy. He
was really feeling much better, less despondent,
than when he had left Clune. Mumford turned to
him.
“Well,” he said, “we’re back. Young man, you’re
goin’ to find it hard to sell your stock. If you want
to sell the Malwa-bred ewes, remember I’ll be wantin’
good stuff for the farm.”
“Thanks,” Robin said, “but I’ll hang on to them.”
“All right. If you should want to sell I’ll take
them—and give you your own price for them. I know
their value.”
Chapter XV.
MYRNA would remember it as a
golden morning. Very early
thunder and a brief shower had
cleared the air of dust and smoke.
Robin grumbled that such a storm was
worthless, a foreshadowing- of further drought, an
ironic gesture of the gods. But she was grateful to
it, for the sunlight which followed the cloud was clear
gold. The earth smelt moist, and from above it the
mocking, dancing heatwaves had disappeared.
Robin was bringing hay from Schreiber’s farm
to feed the milking cows and the horses not in work.
He and Carl were filling the loft above the stable, and
throughout the morning Myrna had watched load
after load draw in towards the homestead.
Of all the happenings on Lammas this drawing-
in of the laden wagons pleased her most. It did
not seem to matter what they brought—whether it
were chaff for the stable, corn and wheat for the
grainshed or even superphosphates and wire-netting
and stores from the railhead. Neither was it altogether
the picturesqueness of the straining teams, their trace-
chains and buckles flashing in the sun, moving for-
ward with strong, slow purpose. Smiling, she admitted
to herself that what probably made the greatest appeal
was the subtle suggestion of providence—the storing
of goods and wealth.
Robin was driving the Lammas wagon. She
would see it first a good mile away as it topped the
ridge coming from the farm. It would be in clear
sight until the road dipped to the stony crossing of
Lammas Creek. Then, though lost to sight, she would
hear it as the heavy wheels clashed and rumbled over
the boulders, and in a little while, even before the
team-leader’s head appeared over the rising ground,
she would see the top of the great load, rich, yellow
gold in the golden sunlight. The loads looked enor-
mous, though Robin told her he could not build as
high as he wished because of the rough creek crossing.
The hay had to be stacked with skill and roped and
cross-roped to bring it safely to the homestead. Robin
and Carl Schreiber would pitch the sheaves into the
loft, leaving Ted Cluff to stack them there while the
wagon journeyed to and from the farm.
Driving the loaded wagon, Robin would be walk-
ing, but Schreiber would be lying full length on top
of the hay. As the third load drew in Myrna saw
that Klaus was with him, standing up and waving
excitedly to her as the wagon moved past the house.
His usually serious face was animated now, flushed
and happy. She smiled, thinking what a tremendous
thrill it must be for him, up so high, riding on the
great load. He was standing straight, his legs buried
to the knees in the hay. She was nervous, thinking
he might fall, but at that moment Carl sat up and
she saw that he was holding the boy by one leg. She
called to Nancy, who was cutting the children’s morn-
ing meal, to bring extra milk and bread and butter
for Klaus, and then ran out to the stable to get him.
Klaus was still on top of the hay when she
arrived, but the load had been unroped and a great
heap of sheaves had tumbled on to the ground at the
back of the wagon, piling up almost to the float-rails
and leaving a long, steep slope from the top of the
hay to the ground. On the edge of it Klaus stood
looking down. She laughed, knowing the temptation
would be more than he could resist, and even as she
watched he turned on his face, slid over the edge and
rushed down feet first in a’ glorious, breath-taking
slide.
She could not tell what happened. He seemed
to check suddenly. His face twisted around, and she
saw it among the flying straws contorted in agonised
terror. Then he screamed.
With the cry Robin and Carl came running from
opposite sides of th§ wagon. She saw Carl reach up
and hold the boy by the back of his shirt and trousers.
Robin kicked at something buried in the hay, then
he pulled it, jerking downwards and sideways, flinging
it away, and she saw that it was a pitchfork. Carl
had the boy in his arms now, the white, pain-racked
face hidden against his shirt. She caught Robin’s
sleeve and asked fearfully “What happened? Did
it run into him? How did it come to be there?”
“I put it there,” he told her. “Leaned it against
the load when we started to unrope.” He turned to
Schreiber: “Bring him into the house.”
They undressed Klaus on Myraa’s bed. One
prong of the fork had run through the bottom of the
boy’s stomach, and along his right hip another point
had ploughed a deep gash. This wound they bound
up, but how deeply the first prong had penetrated they
could not tell. The wound looked small, and there
was little or no blood around it, but Robin thought
with a shudder of the feel of the fork when he had
pulled it away. The boy was moaning" pitifully, but
he could not have been fully conscious. His face
was drained of blood and his eyes were closed.
ROBIN came back from the telephone.
“Cartwell is out of town,” he said, “and they
don’t think he’ll be back till to-night. I’m going to
drive the boy to Clune. Nan, take the car and bring
Clare while I change.”
He came close to the bed again and stood beside
Schreiber.
“God!” he muttered. “The greenest fool would
not have left the fork like that! ”
The German made no reply. He stood with
head bent and drooping shoulders, hopeless and dumb
like a stricken beast.
In a little while Nancy came back with Clare.
Myrna watched them start. Carl, coatless still and
staring at nothing, sat beside Robin ; and Clare, by
herself in the back seat, held the boy in her arms.
IT was nearly ten o’clock that night when Myrna
and Nancy heard the car return. Neither of them
went out of the house, but Myrna opened the door
when she heard Robin’s step on the verandah.
“How is he?” she asked, and he told her:
“Dead.”
He pushed past her into the room, and she smelt
whisky. He walked to the sideboard and poured him-
self out a stiff drink.
“He was dead,” he said, “before we reached
Beni Crossing. But Clare wouldn’t believe it.” He
gulped down the drink. “She’s a fool —and so is Carl.
When a thing’s dead it’s dead ; I want something to
eat —I’ve had nothing since breakfast.”
Nancy went out to get him some food, and he
poured himself another drink. Myrna came up to him
and he stared at her with eyes which were all pupil
ringed with white, showing wildly against the leaden
color of his face. He said, speaking without a trace
of thickness, “You think I’m drunk. I’m not
unfortunately.”
When Nancy brought the tea Myrna told her:
“Go to bed if you want to. I’ll tidy things up.”
Myrna sat with him at the table while he ate
a huge meal, making monosyllabic replies to her ques-
tions. She had never seen him like this. It was not
what he said, for he made no voluntary comment,
but his simplest “Yes” or “No” was given a bitter
twist which made her feel cold and hopeless. When
he had finished she told him: “I’ve made up your
bed in the dressing-room. I thought if you were tired
you would like to sleep by yourself—you generally
do.”
He turned on her savagely.
“Tired! I’m not tired. Why should I be?”
“Very well. Would you like a bath or anything?
I’ll light the heater for you.”
“I don’t want a bath,” he said, and then belliger-
ently, “Don’t you want me to sleep with you?”
“Robin,” she begged. “Don’t talk to me like
that. I know you’re upset over Klaus —but so am I.
You seem to forget that.”
“You!” he sneered. “What has it to do with
you? What has it to do with either of us? As you
said yourself—it’s the parents who will suffer. As for
me, I won’t have to worry about finding money to
keep my promises to his mother. Very convenient,
really.”
She left him then and went unhappily to her
room and to bed. Some time later he came in, un-
dressed in the dark and lay beside her. She felt his
body burning hot, and the reek of whisky sickened
her.
Worn out with unhappiness, she must have
dropped asleep almost immediately. Waking, she
stretched out her hand, feeling for Robin. He was
lying rigid, his hands behind his head, probably staring
into the darkness above him. He was very still, and
she thought he might be asleep. But at the touch of
her hand she felt him quiver, and she drew it quickly
away.
Wakeful herself now, she lay thinking for an
interminable time, but still he did not move. Then
she heard him laugh, and the sound was more horrible
than any happening of that wretched day. Soon after-
wards he got up and went quietly out of the room.
From under the door she saw the flare of a Struck
match, and then a steady bar of light, and she knew
he had lit the petrol gas in the dining-room and was
probably getting more drink. She came in to find him
standing by the sideboard. He had taken his clothes
with him, and they were in a heap on the floor. He
turned quickly when he heard her at the door, and
she saw that he held a tumbler half full of raw whisky.
“What do you want?” he said. “Go back te
bed.”
“I’m not going to let you go drinking like this.
Robin, don’t! Are you quite insane?”
“You can’t stop me. So you’d better shut up.
Are you going back to bed or shall I have to carry
you? If it gives you any satisfaction to know, this is
the last drop of whisky in the house.”
He drained the glass and set it down quite steadily.
“Well, are you going?” he asked.
“Yes,” she said —and then: “I wish to God you’d
go out of my life —I never want to see you again.”
FOR many days afterwards Robin strove vainly to
remember what he had said and done that night.
In some strange way, for his speech and movements
were unaffected, he was drunk. He knew he was
drunk when he came home, and in spite of the meal
he was drunker still before he went to bed. And he
knew that whatever effect alcohol might have on him


it could not dull the edge of his misery. He supposed
that he had started to drink in Clune with that purpose
in view. He had swallowed glass after glass, but its
only effect had been to blot out all other thoughts and
accentuate the memory he was trying to escape. He
had stopped them in a rage and had driven recklessly
home, rushing through the night at the utmost limit
of speed of which the car was capable. But Memory
sped as fast and Remorse sat with him. Only the night
air pressing around him set his body tingling, and
long before he saw the lights of Lammas the physical
craving for more and more whisky was shaking him
like a fever.
Exactly what happened after his arrival he did
not clearly know. He was hungry, and he vaguely
remembered a meal. He had spoken to Myrna, but
God only knew what he had said. He did not remem-
ber going to bed, but only lying awake hour after
hour, no longer trying to forget, but reconstructing
over and over again a succession of vivid scenes. The
loaded wagon with the pitchfork leaning against the
hay—Klaus with his face hidden against Schreiber’s
rough shirt —Klaus naked on the bed —Klaus dead in
Clare’s arms, and Clare fiercely denying that he was
dead.
They had been running for miles on a narrow
bush track winding through scrub and timber, so that
all his attention was needed to keep the car speeding
safely; but when the road straightened out to run
down to Beni Crossing he had looked back at the
boy—and he knew quite certainly that there was no
further need for haste.
He wondered why he had stopped the car, why
he had been so insistent that Clare should understand
that the boy was dead. He must himself, have been
overwrought so that he did not fully realise what he
was doing, for he started a futile argument with her,
quite oblivious of Carl, who was pulling at his sleeve
and urging, “Go on! Go on! Hurry! Why do we
stay here?”
It was not until they reached Clune that she was
convinced. The four of them, for Dr. Morgan was
there, stood around the bed while Clare cursed him,
shrieking out a hysterical recantation of the love that
had given Klaus life. How much of it Carl understood
he did not know, for the German stood wide-eyed and
dazed, like a great ox. But it did not matter in the
least what Schreiber knew. He was in this drama such
an unimportant figure that he might have been part of
the stage properties.
It was this, the thought of Carl’s utter ineptitude,
which made him laugh as he lay beside Myrna.
He could not lie in bed any longer, but must get
up and move about. Looking at the clock in the
dining-room, he knew it would be daylight soon. Then
there would be work to do, something which would
occupy him physically at least, use up this fearful
restlessness of body. There was still some whisky left
in the decanter. He would finish that, then dress and
go out to meet the morning.
Seeing Myrna standing in the doorway, he had
been consumed by a sudden mad rage—hatred, which,
as he remembered it now, made him afraid because
of the longing that had been his to give it physical
expression. He had at that moment, he thought in
horror, been potentially a murderer. His drink-crazed
brain told him that he had taken a life once that day—
unwillingly. Could he wipe out the memory of it
by killing deliberately? He would see her eyes, glazed
and sightless, as the boy’s had been.
Her final words, beating through the mists of
passion like a siren through a smother of fog at sea,
brought him back to sanity and a realisation of life.
For days he wondered if she had really meant
what she had said. For days he had been uncertain,
as he had never before been uncertain, hesitating to
approach her, bitterly ashamed, knowing that in this
the blame was entirely his and longing for reconcilia-
tion.
In the end she herself had taken the initiative,
coming to him, not with reproaches and forgivenness,
but with shy urgency. He had reacted as smouldering
fires blaze anew to a freshening wind. Loving her
in this too-brief moment, with all his being.
Chapter XVI,
BACKING the car into the garage,
Robin thought “Lammas has
changed. The whole country has
changed, and it’s not solely due to
the war.”
Probably the war had nothing to do with it,
except to accelerate changes. The old order gave
place to the new slowly and relentlessly. Slowly—in
spite of the war. Changes only seemed sudden because
you kept deluding yourself that everything was just
as it had always been, trying to hold on to a happiness
which was passing or had passed, shutting your eyes
to realities and living in a land of illusion. Then an
event more poignant than the rest brought you face
to face with reality, and you thought how suddenly
things had changed—and knew you were lying, even
in your thoughts. But because you had kept aloof
from the changing process you found it hard to adjust
yourself, your thoughts, your habit of living, to
altered circumstances.
Life at Lammas had changed, but not suddenly,
as it seemed to him now that Nancy had gone. Only
surprisingly, because he had avoided realities, Lammas
itself as a home had become empty and meaningless,
an unhappy place which would grow more oppressing
and intolerable as the days passed. He looked at the
house, and past it over the silver r : bbon of the creek,
out beyond the pine-crested ridges to the breadth of
river-land, and its very loveliness made him hate it.
A beauty which was false in its promise of happiness.
It would be easy, thinking of the house, to slip
into sentimental sadness, imagining that it had become
a grave for Love and that he was prisoned there with
a dead thing for company. An utterly false concep-
tion, as it would be false to imagine anguish of spirit
when all that existed was a rebellious hatred of
circumstances. It would be as foolishly absurd as
drifting with closed eyes, as he had been doing.
“When a thing’s dead it’s dead!” he had said to
Myrna. Death took something out of your life and
you had to go on without it —without Boyd, without
Klaus. Nancy now must go on without her brothers.
ROBIN slammed the door of the garage irritably.
He had parcels for Myrna, brought from Croy,
but he did not want to go in yet. He left the parcels
on the back verandah and was glad to find no one
about. Coming into the yard again, he saw that
Myrna and the children had been down to the rock
pool in the creek and were now coming slowly
towards the house. They had probably seen the car
arrive. He turned away quickly, fumbling in his
pocket for pipe and tobacco, and walked towards the
wheatfields, where Martin Harroway was burning a
patch of old stubble. There were many things to be
discussed with Myrna, but he was not ready to talk
about them yet. He wished first to get rid of this
feeling of guilt, or at least trace it to its true source.
His mind was quite definitely made up as to what he
was going to do. He had decided that on the drive
back from Croy. But his conscience kept nagging at
him, and he could not be sure whether it was because
of Nancy or because of his decision to sell Lammas.
What he had to discuss with Myrna was the sale of
Lammas —and that was inevitable.
Towards the end of January, with the time at
hand when he must give up the Naranbah leases, he
was in a desperate position. It seemed that he could
not sell his stock at any price. McNamarra had held
a special auction sale at the homestead yards, but
only a few curious people had turned up, and none
of them buyers. There was nothing for it, then, but
to accept Mumford’s offer —let him have the pick of
the breeding ewes and cram all the rest of the sheep
on to Lammas. The place could not hold them, and
he knew it before he brought them there. The stubble
land was eaten out. The river plains, which even
when apparently useless would keep stock alive with
fallen clover burr, were licked bare. The stock lost
condition fast, grew weak, so that from dawn till
dark he must be amongst them, lifting the fallen ones,
skinning those that died.
In February the season broke, and though the
rain brought quicker death to many of the sheep it
created a market for what were left, and he was able
to sell —at a price.
Lammas, eaten out to almost the last clover burr,
would take a long while to recover. All the stock
must go and the property be rested. He never hesi-
tated to sell. Though he was growing to dislike
Lammas he could not be false to the land itself, and
the land needed rest. Through the autumn and winter
the rain fell. In the spring, when the land was green
again, strong and life-giving, he had asked for money
to re-stock, and was refused.
With forced stock sales and compensation on the
Naranbah leases his overdraft had been reduced to
£lO,OOO, but the bank refused to let him exceed this
limit. Quite in vain he pointed out that he had a
valuable property and unless it could be stocked he
had no means of making a living. Even his father
seemed to have lost faith in him and suggested rather
curtly that the only solution to the problem was to
sell Lammas.
With hopeless obstinacy he refused to consider
it, drifting along week after week. It was only
to-day that he had finally decided. He would sell;
nor did he care much at what price. Mumford some
time before had offered to buy back the remaining
portion of Naranbah, and that day, having seen Nancy
off in the train, Robin had signed the agreement. The
price seemed absurd, but he knew the place as it stood
was of little value. He knew, too, that Mumford
did not really want it but was doing what he could,
as he had done all the time, to help Robin.
It was the death of Nancy’s brothers that had
finally stirred him to action. This and the realisation
of his feelings towards her. Only then had Lammas
become unbearable, and with all his reasoning he
could not quiet his nagging conscience. Maybe there
was no slightest doubt that it was necessary to sell.
Probably there was no other escape, and it was mad-
ness to go on with the interest debt mounting every
day and the land lying idle. These arguments were
sound enough ; sound enough to convince Myrna and
acceptable enough to his father to everyone but
himself. He alone would know that reason had
nothing to do with his decision, was merely a con-
venient excuse.
IT was strange that the news of the deaths of both
brothers should have come to Nancy on the same
day. Paddy was killed in Palestine, blown,to pieces
by a Turkish shell, but Bernie had died in an enemy
hospital with three machine-gun bullets through his
stomach.
It was some months before Robin heard details
of Bernie’s death. Five 'planes returning from a raid
over enemy territory, and Bernie flying last in the
formation. A sudden overwhelming attack, and
Bernie’s machine too slow to escape. He turned, they
said, as a heron will turn to face the hunting falcons.
Two other swifter ’planes had gone back to help him,
but it was hopeless. The last they had seen of him
was his machine descending, not out of control,
steadily, in a long, even glide, but heading in the
wrong direction. A few days later the flight learned
that he was dead, had died in hospital. But he had
brought his ’plane down safely, and Robin imagined
the courage which had fought back pain and failing
consciousness. Just the will tg live, for the ’plane
was lost, whatever happened; the guts to fight to the
last conscious moment.
The same fortitude had been bred in Nancy. He
saw it when he brought her the telegram. Myrna, the
children, Lammas; they meant nothing to him then.
All he wanted was to force his way into the middle
of things; to help fill the gaps left by Boyd and Fred
Hare, by Paddy and Bernard. So overwhelming was
the urge that he was prepared to sacrifice everything
to gain his end. And an excuse was ready to hand.
With Lammas sold there would be nothing to hold
him.
NANCY had gone and there was no one at Lammas
but Myrna and the children and himself. Janet
had been sent away months ago. Ted Cluff had
followed her and had immediately enlisted. The
Schreibers had left Lammas soon after Klaus’s death.
Their cottage was empty, their cultivation land,
unploughed and unstocked, was matted with rotting
herbage. Only Martin Harroway, huge, sandy-haired
and unimaginative, seemed unaffected by the cold
shadow of failure. He went his way as usual, farm-
ing with the same crude methods that his father and
grandfather had used, doing easily the work of three
men, sowing by hand, tearing up the ground in great
lumps as though his own brute force was finding
expression through the plough he drove. And from
the boundary-rider’s hut on the river old Dave Sea-
brook had refused to move.
“I don’t want money,” he told Robin. “I’m
sixty-seven, I think, and I’ve lived here thirty year.
Where would I go? I’ll keep the fences and the river
crossings in order. They need seeing to if you’ve got
stock on or not.”
Time dragged heavily. There was nothing to do.
Wood to cut, a cow to milk, a horse to groom and
feed, and, when these small jobs were done, nothing
to do. Nothing to do. Nothing to tire his restless
body; nothing to occupy his restless mind. If he
drove to Croy he would find only busy people, men
who had to work in the town, men who dashed in
from outlying farms, stayed for an hour or two, found
time for a drink, and hurried back to the work that
was waiting for them. So there, too, he found nothing
to do but drink. Drinking cost money, and there
was little money to spend now.
In the beginning, before he knew that money
would not be available for re-stocking, he had spent
most of the day riding around the property, watching
the fences, thrilling to see the recovery of the
exhausted land, planning for the future when Lammas
would be creating and fostering new life. But in the
spring, when his hopes were killed, he could not
bear the sight of his empty paddocks and stayed close
by the house, waiting without hope for some final
blow to fall, longing for a way of escape but making
no effort to find one.
He knew now that it was Nancy who had kept
him inactive, Nancy who had kept him close beside
the house so that he could drop in at odd times,
ostensibly for a cup of tea but more truly for a word
with her, a sight of her.
Only in Nancy’s music could he forget himself
completely, and he believed that she had known this
and had played to him as David played to Saul.
When Nancy was playing he did not want anyone
else in the room. He liked to lie back with closed
eyes and forget everything but the glory of sound,
and for this he must be alone. So he found himself
scheming to get Myrna and the children out of the
way. It was not easy, for Myrna could not drive
the car, and the most he could hope for was an
occasional picnic, and that would be no farther away
than the rock pool on Lammas Creek. At that time,
he tried to convince himself, it was not that he wanted
to be alone with Nancy but only with her music.
Then, two days ago, the Malwa car, calling in
the morning, carried Myrna and the children away
until the evening.
When the car was gone he had saddled the black
horse and ridden to the river. He was deliberately
staying away from Nancy for the whole morning,
drawing a strange, mad joy from controlling the im-
patience which urged him each minute to go back to
her. It would grow and grow, this insistent urge, and
in the end he would give way to it and ride home —
his pace growing faster and faster, until he could
thunder up the hill to the homestead and Nancy. The
afternoon would be their own.
At lunch she had asked him “Have you anything
to do? Could we go riding somewhere?”
In sudden fear that his anticipated happiness
would be taken from him he answered her quickly.
“Oh, Nan, no! I want you to play.”
She looked at him questioningly, and gradually
a change which he could notice but could not under-
stand came into her face.
“Very well, Saul,” she said slowly. “But the
choice is mine.” Her eyes were laughing now. “Shall
I exorcise devils —or call them up?”
She had played as he had never heard her play
before. Not the music he had expected, but impish,
maddening things. Ballads which he knew, old dance
tunes, songs he had never heard, singing in her rich
contralto a line here and a line there tantalising,
unsatisfying.
“Lean down, lean down to the water, Melisande,
To the shadowed pool lean down”
Laughing at him over her shoulder. Only the
melody going on. The tune changing abruptly and
her voice breaking in again:
“The soul is driven mist within the wood
Wherein the white hounds move and shadows brood.”
Exasperated, he moved closer to the piano, shout-
ing at her “For God’s sake sing something right
through—or don’t sing at all.”
Laughing still, her fingers struck down in a final
chord, and suddenly she was playing music which
made him ache with longing for something so in-
tangible that he knew only the desire and not the thing
desired.


He was confused, his emotions uncertain, in-
definite. Then he found himself listening to something
he knew well. Again he was carried away by the
rapture of music, but he knew what it was he wanted.
His desire shaped itself, not abstractly, but in definite
form—Nancy!
He lay back in the chair, and for the first time
that afternoon he closed his eyes. Something inside
him was vibrating in sympathy with the singing music.
“Not yet,” he kept telling himself ; “Not yet.” He
would wait as he had waited that morning, deliberately
allowing his emotions to surge and mount, delighting
to stay in a cell to which he held the key.
The telephone-bell jarred into his consciousness,
and for a while he kept his eyes closed, hoping it
would stop. But it sounded again and again, and then
a long, insistent ring. He cursed savagely, and Nancy
laughed, though she continued playing.
She was playing still when he came to her with
the news, telegraphed from her father, that her
brothers were dead.
He believed she had guessed his message as soon
as she saw him, but she continued playing to the end.
He would never forget her. Her face was white
with strain, but there were no tears, no exaggerated
gestures. It made him ashamed of his own lack of
control when Boyd had died, and, remembering his
unhappiness then, he had turned to go, thinking she
would like to be alone. But at this she seemed afraid.
“Don’t leave me. I’ll play a little more. Then
we’ll make tea.”
Later she told him “I must go home to-morrow—
to Mother and Father,” and then, with a little shudder,
“The train journey—I’ll be alone all that time.”
THE sun set behind a heavy bank of clouds, color-
■ less, but even in the sombre greys there was beauty.
Beauty in the sky, beauty in the outline, silhouetted
against it, of trees and climbing ridge. He could stay
no longer. There was a calf to put in the pen and
wood to cut and carry for the kitchen stove and
words to be spoken.
He said nothing to Myrna until tea was over and
the children in bed; then, sitting together in the
library, he told her.
“I sold the last portion of Naranbah to-day.
I’m going to sell Lammas. I’m going to enlist.”
She made no comment, and soon he became un-
comfortable, his face hot. Her attitude was so
different from what he had expected that he was
nonplussed, not knowing what to do. He wanted an
excuse to prove that he was doing the right thing, and
was prepared to do so in the face of any opposition
from her ; but her silence was disconcerting. It was
as though she already knew his explanations—knew
that they were words only.
Staring at her with blank eyes, he started to give
reasons, doggedly, when suddenly she smiled, and,
coming over, sat on the arm of his chair.
“You poor boy,” she said. “There is no need to
justify yourself to me. But if it is possible—and you
must make it possible—leave me the house to live in
while you are away.”
Astonished, he said “You wouldn’t be happy
here.”
“Nor anywhere else.”
“But you could have a comfortable home iu
Sydney.”
“I don’t want a comfortable home in Sydney.”
Her hand came out quickly, resting on his head.
“Do this for me —I know you will. Let us stay
here—just the children and me —until you come home.
You can sell it then if you want to.”
“I could divide Lammas into three or four
blocks,” he said thoughtfully. “It would probably sell
better that way. And leave you the house and a
thousand acres, or fifteen hundred—the home pad-
docks and Harroway’s farm.”
vShe pushed back his head and, leaning down, she
kissed him.
“Good-night, my dear,” she said. “Really, if you
will leave me the house I don’t mind your selling all
the rest. And if going to the war will make you
happier I’ll be glad—for your sake.”
Chapter XVII.
ROBIN rode slowly across the river
flats. To-morrow in Croy he would
give delivery of this the third block
of Lammas to be sold, and the last.
He was free now. Myrna would have the
house to live in. The homestead and fifteen hundred
acres surrounding it, which included Harroway’s
farm, he had held back from sale. It would be clear
of debt, for with the final sale of the river land the
bank overdraft would be wiped off and he would have
money over. There would not be very much, but
enough to stock the home block and leave Myrna a
reasonable credit balance in ready cash. He would
stock with dry sheep—three-year-old wethers, prob-
ably—so there would be nothing much to look after.
Harroway could do what work there was, and Myrna
would have a comfortable home and no worry. She
would draw an income from wool and from his share
of profits from the farm. There would, too, be a
Government allowance for his wife and children, and
a part of his army pay. They should be quite safe
—now and in the future, for Donald Stewart had
promised to care for them should Robin be killed.
Myrna would need some one with her, someone
in the house. He wondered if Nancy would come
back. He hardly thought it likely, nor was he sure
that Myrna would want her back. The friendship
between the two women, in spite of the difference in
their ages, had been very intimate, but during the last
few months of Nancy’s stay at Lammas neither of
them had been quite the same to the other. There
had been nothing which approached an open break,
but he had felt that each had been a little wary of the
other, and at times almost antagonistic. He wondered
if this had really been so or if, together with the
feeling that he was responsible, it was only the prick-
ing of a guilty conscience, for he believed that neither
Myrna nor Nancy could know what his feelings really
were.
With Nancy he had come very near to revealing
himself, and he was still in doubt as to how far his
emotions on that afternoon had been deliberately
engendered by Nancy herself. That she had meant to
stir him he was certain ; but whether it was simply
an expression of her Puckish humor., holding herself
ready to escape with a laugh or a reckless abandon-
ment to a passion as wild as his own he did not know.
The thought exasperated him. He wanted to
know, to be certain. If it had not been for that damn’
telephone he would have known then. And what
would that knowledge have meant to him? What
would the certainty that Nancy loved him mean to
him now? Nothing but an intensifying of his already
hopeless longing. He was drifting still, unwilling to
face realities. If he was certain perhaps he would not
keep drifting. It would be better, surely, to do some-
thing definite, even if it were the wrong thing. Why
stay uncertain? It would be simple enough to find
out. Write to Nancy. But he didn’t want to write.
Go down and see her, then. Why didn’t he? Was he
afraid? Surely not of Nancy. And he knew well
that it was not Nancy’s answer that he feared but
his own wretched conscience, and that even if assured
of Nancy’s love he would still be unwilling to solve
the problem.
Perhaps, after all, it was better, easier, not to
know. Since Nancy had gone, and since he had an
object in view in selling Lammas and leaving Myrna
in security, he had realised more clearly his obliga-
tions. He was bound not only to Myrna but to the
children. There might be some excuse for leaving
them to serve his country in time of need, though
even this, so far as he was concerned, was flimsy
enough. To leave them for ever, so that he could
share his life with Nancy, was more than his con-
science would allow. It seemed there were only two
ways to follow—to forsake his family or to forget
Nancy. In either case it necessitated an effort of will
which for months he had refused to make.
If there had been no children it might have simpli-
fied matters. When he married he had sworn solemnly
to himself that whatever happened he would never
deny Myrna. There must even then have been some
doubt in his mind as to the permanence of his affec-
tions. He would have been very scornful of any such
suggestion, though he believed now that that boyish
oath was in itself an admission of uncertainty. It
seemed to him that he had persuaded Myrna against
her better judgment that life with him would always
be secure and happy, and he had persuaded himself
that no matter what circumstances might arise he
would be strong enough to protect her from dis-
illusionment —he might suffer the torments of the
damned, but she should never know. Now, barely
six years later, he was bringing forward arguments
to support his right to leave her.
But with the children it was different. A woman
made her own decision as to marriage. Children had
no choice, no power of refusing existence, and it
seemed incomprehensible that anyone should deny
them a right of dependence on parents. This must
mean giving them something more than financial
safety, adequate food and a permanent roof ; and what
could this something more be but happiness? Could
they find happiness and security in a home deserted
by the father?
He was distressed to find how little Margaret and
Kathleen meant to him. He was fond of all children
but could discover very little difference between his
affection for his own two girls and, say, his nieces.
Was he, then, entirely lacking in paternal feeling? This
could not be, or how explain his intense love of Klaus
—Klaus, on whom he had hardly expended a thought
until he had discovered the boy was his son? Why
should Klaus have meant more to him than Margaret
or Kathleen? His feeling for the two mothers could
have had no bearing on the case, for he had never
imagined himself in love with Clare.
It was all very perplexing and depressing. Klaus
was dead. There could be no questiqn now of his
usurping any of the rights of Myrna’s children. And
their claim on him was inescapable. So really there
was no choice. Nancy must be forgotten, and he must
live for them. This involved a return to Myrna—
wholeheartedly. A little while ago he had not wanted
to go back to her, but now it did not seem so impos-
sible. There was no reconciliation to be effected, for
the estrangement had existed only in his own thoughts.
AT the gate leading from the river land to the main
road Robin experienced a curious revulsion of
feeling, a reluctance to open the gate and pass through.
It seemed that for the first time he realised that never
again would he ride across the river plains in pride
of ownership.
As he turned to close the gate Trumpeter lifted
his head and whinnied. The horse’s ears were pricked,
and Robin could feel its whole body trembling with
excitement. Absorbed in his thoughts, he had been
unaware of outward things, but now there came to
him clearly the rhythmic beat of many hooves, the
sharp click-clack of iron shoes striking stone, a
murmur of voices, and, heralded by a low cloud of
dust, around a bend in the road came a motley com-
pany of mounted men eighty or ninety strong. They
rode roughly in sections of four, some leading spare
horses, while running loose at the side of the formation
were packhorses heavily laden. The men were mostly
in civilian dress, though a khaki uniform showed here
and there, and alone in the lead rode a tall, bearded
man in the uniform of a lancer at the time of the
Boer War.
As this strange troop came closer Robin dis-
covered with amazement that the leader was his uncle.
Brand Stewart, whom he had not seen for four years.
Brand waved a greeting as he drew level, and Robin,
turning the new plunging Trumpeter, rode up beside
him. His action was met with a cheer from the men,
and someone shouted, “Back in the ranks, mate! You
ain’t a colonel yet!”
Brand Stewart turned in his saddle with a grin
and shouted “He happens to be the only man among
us with a commission! ”
Robin asked “What in God’s name does all this
mean?”
“A recruiting march,” Brand told him. “We're
heading for Sydney, picking up men as we go. The
boys think you’ve joined up.”
Robin laughed shortly.
“Well,” he said, “it might as well be this way
as any other.”
“Do you mean you want to join?”
“Why not? I was going to in any case in a day
or two. But I can’t ride to Sydney with you. Will
it do if I come as far as Croy? Can I enlist there?”
His uncle looked at him curiously.
“Yes,” he said, “if you’re serious.”
“I am.”
“Very well. You can tell me about it as we ride
along. Turning to the men, he shouted above the
clatter “Another recruit, boys! My nephew, Lieu-
tenant Robin Stewart! He rides with me.”
A fresh burst of cheering welcomed Robin. He
looked around but could recognise none of the riders.
Except for the few men in uniform, who were obvi-
ously returned soldiers re-enlisting, the faces were
those of boys of eighteen or nineteen, and the thought
came to him with a shock that the country was being
drained of its manhood, and the only reserves avail-
able now were boys and C-class men. He himself was
probably the one fit and seasoned man among them.
Trumpeter was going more contentedly now
beside Brand Stewart’s horse, a rangy chestnut, showy
enough but rough-looking to ride.
“Where did you get him?” Robin asked.
“At Liverpool ; the best I could get in a hurry.
He looks the part. The horses are recruits, too ; all
given by the country people. Of course the boys
don’t take them with them, but they’ll be shipped
over to Egypt just the same —the sound ones —there
are a lot of weeds amongst them.”
“You must take Trumpeter when we reach Croy.
He’s good. Not up to Black Harry, but you’ll find
him an improvement on that thing. I’ll have no
further use for him now. How did the authorities
come to pass you for active service? What age did
you give?”
“They didn’t pass me, but it had nothing to do
with age. I’ve tried for three years to persuade them
that I’m good cannon-fodder, but it’s no use. The
best they could do for me was this. They offered me
a temporary commission of some sort, and a uniform
if I bought it myself, but I didn’t wait for either.
They gave me a dozen men as a nucleus, and landed
us with our horses a couple of hundred miles further
west. The rest is up to me. I don’t think they
expected much, and put me to this job mainly to keep
me quiet, but I’ll have a hundred men and horses
before we reach Sydney. You make eighty-seven.
The closer in we get the fewer men seem available.
There should be a score of good fit men around Croy,
but this is the fringe of the farming circle, and the
cockies seem more owned by their land than owning
it. It’s natural, I suppose, and sometimes 1 wonder
why the devil any man should enlist to fight in a
foreign country thousands of miles away for a reason
that seems more obscure than it did in nineteen-
hundred. At least it does to me, but I was younger
then.”
Robin laughed,
“And you’ve been trying to enlist for three
years!”
“It does sound inconsistent. Especially as I’ve
persuaded nearly a hundred men that the only way
to keep Australia is to fight for England—or is it
Belgium?—in Palestine. And the funny part of it is
I believe it myself when I start. So do you, appar-
ently.”
“I don’t know what I believe,” Robin said. “But
no belief has led me into the army. 1 wouldn’t attempt
to explain it to anyone else. I wouldn’t want anyone
else to know. Maybe I can’t explain it to you, but
it’s purely a matter of feeling, not of reason. When
war first broke out I, like everyone else, was carried
away on a wave of enthusiasm. They called it
‘patriotism,’ and I believed it was. I believed it for
a year while I was chafing at circumstances which
prevented my going. Perhaps patriotism is only feel-
ing and not reason, but I believed then that it was
the right thing for every able-bodied man to enlist —
and to be the right thing it must be the reasonable
thing. That’s what I’m not sure of now. I don’t
want to stop to think about it. I never have thought
about it seriously until this moment.
“I don’t know why I’m telling you this. I’ve never
felt the need to open my heart to anyone, not even
to Boyd. When Boyd was killed I wanted more
strongly than ever to go, and I discovered that what
I really wanted was comradeship—to share with men
I admired hardship and suffering and death if need be.
I cannot tell what’s driving me now, but it’s certainly
not patriotism, and only partly the longing for com-
radeship. It’s something stronger than either, more
primitive. There is, of course, the wish which has
been present all along to prove myself to myself, and
this is possibly the basis of it. I’m not sure of my
own fortitude.”
“No man can be,” Brand said. “That is, no man
who thinks about it—no man with imagination. But
when it comes to the point they’re generally the ones
who stand up to it longest. Don’t worry about
physical courage. As a matter of fact, it is a far
more universal characteristic than people imagine, so
much so that it ceases to be a virtue and the lack ot


it becomes a vice. What are you doing about the
properties?”
“I’ve sold everything except the Lammas home-
stead and fifteen hundred acres around it. Myrna
and the children will stay there. The Government
took Naranbah, and the rest had to go. ”
No comment came from his uncle, and they rode
on silently for a mile or more ; then Brand remarked
abruptly “I never married ; more by luck than judg-
ment. I’m constantly being reminded of my good
fortune—and hers—and theirs!”
Chapter XVIII.
is no one for whom 1 have
1 a greater respect”...
Gillson Brain was looking
directly at Robin. His voice was
smooth and clear. “He always had a good
voice,” Robin thought. But the scar on Brain’s cheek
was chalk-white against the tan of his skin, and,
looking into those hard grey eyes, Robin read there
a malicious, abiding hate which more than matched
his own.
“1 have known Robin as long as anyone in the
room, for we were born within a few miles of each
other, and I am the elder”...
ROBIN had wondered, when McNamarra had told
him how insistent Brain had been to make the
presentation, what possible object the man could have.
They had never been friends, and in the last few
years what had been a mutual dislike had developed
until it had culminated in a crest of hate in the hotel
room when Schreiber and Klaus were hurt. Robin
scoffed at the suggestion put forward by McNamarra
that Brain was sorry for the part he had played that
day, wanted to let bygones be bygones, and was grasp-
ing this opportunity to hold out a friendly hand.
Gillie, he believed, had some sinister purpose. Watch-
ing him when he began the presentation speech, he
was sure of it, but as to what that purpose might be
he could not guess.
This business of a public send-off was revolting,
but he could not very well escape it, and it would have
been churlish to protest. It all seemed so false, so
insincere. Not that he would tax McNamarra with
insincerity ; and there were many in the room who
felt as the agent did. McNamarra and these others
had a genuine liking for him. They were, too,
intensely sentimental, which made Robin feel most
uncomfortable. Nothing, they would say, was too
good for the boys who were offering their lives for
the country ; and at the moment they would honestly
believe it. It was not with them that the insincerity lay,
but with the few who had neither regard for Robin
nor appreciation of the service rendered by enlisted
men, and who gave ostentatiously and attended such
functions as this as a matter of policy. These were the
hypocrites. Looking around the room, Robin could
pick them out easily—Cartwell, Jones, and others of
the townsfolk ; with Gillson Brain in a place by him-
self.
Yet if such things were necessary, if he had to
listen to words of extravagant praise and receive gifts,
he would rather have them at the hands of the hypo-
crites, for his own insincerity would be equal to theirs.
With McNamarra and with the others who were his
friends he was ashamed and unhappy, and he longed
to wipe it all out when his time came to speak, shout-
ing “I’m not a hero. I’m not a patriot. lam making
no sacrifices, except to sacrifice my wife and children
to my own egoism. I am not fighting for you and
the land which bred me —I am deserting you.” And
none of them would believe it; not his friends, not
the hypocrites. No one would know it for the truth
but himself —“And,” he thought suddenly, “Gillie
Brain! ”
Robin’s mind drifted away from the room and
the people. “Final leave!” he thought. “A month
in camp, and now final leave. Not so bad. Quicker
than most.”
He had used all the influence he could command,
first to be drafted into Light Horse reinforcements and
then to get away on the earliest boat. When he
arrived in Egypt he would again pull strings so that
he might go straight to the front. He felt confident
that this could be arranged. There were plenty of
men over there, if he could find them, who would do
what they could to help him. Barney Case, a major
now, and the Mclntyres, and the old Brigadier, Brand
Stewart’s friend in the days of the Boer War. He
was, too, well trained in mounted drill, actually a
commissioned man serving now as a trooper. There
could be nothing more to learn except the war game
itself, and that could not be taught behind the line.
No, there would be no check ; he would go straight
up. And then? He didn’t want to think past this
point. There was no need to think. He would be
there and things would just happen.
* C \A/ k- ave hunted and shot together as boys,”
™ Brain was saying, “and as young men we have
played together. A man’s character shows out in
games—his courage is tested, for even there sacrifices
must be made and danger, very real danger, must be
faced. I have seen Robin face to face with danger,
and I know that when the time comes in this bigger
game he will act again as he acted then”...
So this was Gillson’s purpose! More subtly
venomous because he knew that, of all the men who
heard his words, none but Robin would grasp their
true significance. Mirrored in Brain’s expressionless
eyes he saw a dusty polo ground, an opposing player
riding furiously straight at him on a horse heavier than
his own, a white ball bouncing mid-way between them.
He felt again his pony shirking, its pace slackening ;
and then as he pulled aside to escape the collision ne
saw the smile on his opponent’s face, heard the crisp
smack of his stick as it met the ball, and high above
the thud of hooves, the shouting and the blowing of
motor horns, he heard that same clear voice calling
from the boundary line “Oh, you bloody squib!”
Robin felt his face burn and throb with the
rush of hot blood. With a supreme effort he kept
quiet where he sat. Why should he let this taunt
trouble him —a taunt of cowardice from a man like
Gillson Brain? It was a lie. The pony had shirked,
not he. But no one could know this but the pony’s
rider, and all the people that day, both players and
spectators, though few of them would blame him,
had believed that he deliberately avoided a crash.
He was suddenly convinced that there was one
other who knew the fault was with the pony, and not
the man. And that other was Gillson Brain. And in
spite of this the taunt stung —as Gillie knew it would
sting.
When you are in close sympathy with a person
an understanding exists which needs no expression in
words. It had been the strong link between himself
and Boyd. In a great measure it was the same between
himself and Nancy, and might grow to a complete
understanding, though between a man and a woman
there might never be this fullness of sympathy. Each
seemed always to hold something in reserve, afraid
or incapable of revealing the whole of their spiritual
selves. Perhaps love was just this —complete mutual
understanding and sympathy.
If love were capable of such understanding, the
same might be true of hate. He thought it must be
so. He could not imagine hating anyone more than
he hated Gillson Brain, and he could read the play
of Brain’s emotions as clearly as he knew Gillie could
read him. There was no need for words between
them, as there was no veil of formal courtesy which
could cloak their feelings.
Now he deliberately turned his thoughts from
Gillson Brain. To-morrow he must go back to
camp, and in a little while, perhaps a week or even
less, he would be on the way to Egypt. General
reinforcements for Egypt; Light Horse, many of
them, but destined to no particular regiment. Rein-
forcements to be drawn on as the need arose. He
would have liked to go to the old regiment, to serve
with Barney Case and the Mclntyres and the men he
knew. But it did not matter much where he was
drafted so long as he got to the front quickly. In
any case, most of the men he knew in the regiment
were either killed or disabled. Barney Case was an
exception. Both the Mclntyres had been wounded
more than once, but Barney had blundered through
the thickest of the fighting in Gallipoli and Palestine
without a scratch. He had had several horses killed
and others wounded, amongst them Whalebone, which
he managed to get hold of after leaving the Peninsula.
Whalebone had been hit at Romani, and now, Barney
wrote, was doing duty in a riding school at Moasca
on the canal. Moasca, according to reports, was
where the general reinforcements were taken, so Robin
would possibly see the old horse again.
ROBIN had found he needed all his influence to
be drafted into the Light Horse. There was far
more need, it seemed, for infantrymen, and of all
Brand Stewart’s Hundred only three, Robin and two
others, had been accepted as Light Horsemen ; Robin
because it was arranged for him, and the others by
sheer luck. On arrival at camp all were issued with
infantry uniforms, listed as infantry reinforcements,
and given infantry training ; but within a week those
who had applied for the Light Horse were given what
was called a riding test. Out of three hundred seven
were chosen, and of these one was a man who had
never been on a horse before and had gone, as he
said, just for the ride ; he didn't want to be a mounted
man. It was farcical, but there could be no appeal.
The men enlisted as general reinforcements and could
be drafted into what units the authorities thought fit.
Being a married man Robin was able to wangle
leave at every week-end, and most of his free hours
he spent with Nancy. He had hoped that Myrna
would come to Sydney when he went into camp, and
stay there until he sailed, but she had refused.
“I can’t explain why,” she said. “It’s not really
the expense, though it would be foolish if the children
and I were to stay at an hotel, as you suggest. I just
don’t want to go away from Lammas. I’ll come to
see you sail if you really want me to, and you will be
home for your final leave.”
She was resolute in her purpose and surprised at
Robin’s insistence.
“It seems ridiculous,” she said. “We could only
see each other at week-ends, and not even then if you
have guard duty or whatever it is they give you. Why
are you so anxious for me to come down?”
“We won’t be together much longer,” he said
lamely, and realised that he would not tell her the
real reason, which would have brought her down and
kept her in Sydney until he sailed. With a reckless
disregard of logic he told himself “I can’t do any
more. I’ve begged her to be there when I get leave.
If she won’t come it’s just Fate. I’m not going to
spend my free hours alone.”
It was not the fact that he spent his short leaves
with Nancy that he kept from Myrna. This was
natural enough. She knew of it and approved. What
he did not tell her was that he knew he should not
meet Nancy again, and that the only way to stop
himself doing so was to bring his wife to Sydney.
He was not comfortable about it; annoyed with him-
self and annoyed with his pushing the responsibility
and blame on to Myrna for her stubbornness in
refusing to be near him.
With Nancy he was reticent, holding himself
in with a firm hand, afraid that, should he let
his feelings for her become obvious, he would lose
her altogether. So his hours with her were tantalising
and unsatisfactory. He fretted for the time to come
when he would meet her ; when they were together
he chafed at circumstances which forced him to
struggle against a natural expression of his emotions ;
he was relieved when they parted, and immediately
started fretting again to be near her.
Well, there would be no more of it. So far as
he knew there would be no further leave, and the day
of sailing was close.
HE had almost forgotten Gillie, but he was conscious
now of a general stir in the room, and Brain was
dangling a gold wristlet watch by the strap. There
was, too, an edge to his voice, the merest suggestion
of sarcasm, an inflection so slight that it could be
noticeable only to ears specially sensitive to its mean-
ing.
“... a gold wristlet watch,” Brain was saying,
“suitably inscribed —
“Presented to Robin Stewart
By his Croy pals.
God send you back to us.”
Of all the subtle innuendoes there was none so
venomous, so diabolically clever, as this veiled sneer
at the sentimental weakness of Robin’s friends. It
placed Brain with one clean cut in a place apart, a
place of his own choosing. It went further than this,
for it assumed that Robin himself was in a similar
position from which he could view with equal disdain
the maudlin sentiments of his friends.
This was where the sting came. Brain was hold-
ing up to ridicule McNamarra and the others to
the one man beside himself who could appreciate
their absurdity—and that man the friend whom they
were honoring in all sincerity. McNamarra, with all
his limitations, was a good fellow, fundamentally
cleaner and truer than Brain could ever be. It was
hard for Robin to sit still and tacitly acknowledge
a scornful superiority shared with Gillson Brain.
Brain handed him the watch.
“The district is proud of you, Robin,” he said.
“I wish I was going with you.”
“I know you do!” Robin said, thinking that in
this short reply he had repaid one thrust at least. He
was totally unprepared for Gillie’s counter.
“I will be later than you, but not by much. I
enlisted yesterday.”
Chapter XIX,
JpOU sail to-morrow? I hope you
have a comfortable trip. Paddy
J§l and Bernard had horses to look
after, but you will escape that.
Nancy is staying with her aunt for a few
days—but, of course, you’ve been speaking to her.
You were at Macquarie with Barney, I believe.”
Robin realised that old Mr. Mcßride had no
interest whatever in the conversation. Nancy had told
him that her father had little interest in anything since
the death of his sons, and was concerned only with
the comfort of his wife, who seldom left her room.
With Nancy away it was a depressing house to
come to. Robin did not want to stay longer than he
could help, and he knew that Mcßride would be
greatly relieved when he had gone. He had come
there that afternoon expecting to see Nancy, and,
arriving about four o’clock, had been pressed to stay
for a cup of tea. It was ridiculous conventional
courtesy. The Mcßrides did not want him, he knew,
and he did not want to stay. He excused himself as
soon as he could. Nancy could not meet him until
six o’clock. There was nothing to do, and he was
not feeling very well, so he would go back to the
hotel, to the room he had engaged for himself and
Myrna, and lie down for an hour.
At the hotel he called for a drink, though he
thought it would probably do him no good. He was
feeling very sick, and his arm was painful, hot and
throbbing. Those who were sailing had been vaccin-
ated the day before. The lymph seemed to be a
particularly virulent batch, for many of the men were
laid up with fever and festering arms, and he knew
that, had he wished, he could have avoided sailing, as
Jackson and Hunt were doing. He was a good deal
sicker than they, but his chief concern was that his
sickness would be noticed and he would be prevented
from embarking. He was very glad of this afternoon
and night of special leave. In the morning, in the
bustle and excitement of moving off, he would not
be noticed if he could stand on his legs at all.
This last night of leave had been unexpected,
though the date of sailing had been known a week
earlier. Robin then had sent word to Myrna, and
she had replied saying that she and the children would
arrive in Sydney on the day of embarkation, go
straight to her friend Elsie Glasson and return the
same night. She did not wish to stay in Sydney after
Robin had gone.
When the final night’s leave was granted he had
a great battle with his conscience. There was time,
if he wired immediately, for Myrna to catch the train
a day earlier and spend the afternoon and night with
him. He never doubted that she would come, but he
was sorely tempted to withhold the information and
spend this last leave with Nancy, whom he had not
seen for weeks. The longer he thought of it the more
he wanted to see Nancy, until, in a panic, he had
rushed away and sent a telegram to Myrna, giving it
a rather exaggerated note of urgency. In the after-
noon he received her reply:
“Cannot get away to-day. See you wharf Thurs-
day.”


This was a shock, unexpected and unsettling. He
felt hurt and resentful. He thought of hiring a fast
car and rushing to Lammas and back before leave
expired in the morning. It would be just possible,
driving hard all the time, to complete the journey
during the period of leave. He would report sick.
He would refuse leave. Anything to prevent his going
to Nancy.
But in a little while he was again spurring his
flagging resentment against Myrna, until in its un-
natural activity he found relief and purpose. Since
he meant so little to Myrna he was perfectly justified
in enjoying with Nancy the few hours of freedom
that were left to him ; even to tell her—for the thought
had always been at the back of his mind—that he
loved her. But the city was an impossible place.
There could be no privacy. He would have to say
what he wanted to say in a theatre or a cab or over
a restaurant table.
He could see Nancy in her own home! To his
troubled mind this obvious course had been slow in
presenting itself. How stupid of him! He would not
even have to ring her up; just go to the house and
find her there.
HE was free at mid-day, and, catching the earliest
available train, he came to the city and went first
to secure a room for himself for the night. Tne dook.-
ing clerk asked him: “Single or double?” and quite
unconsciously he replied “Double—for myself and
my wife.” He was about to correct his absurd lapse
when he remembered that Myrna would be arriving
by train at five o’clock next morning, and though she
intended to go to Mrs. Glasson he would meet her
and persuade her to come to the hotel and have
breakfast with him. She would be glad of a room
to rest in and a bath for herself and the children.
His arm was very sore. That morning he had
been afraid to have it attended to in camp and Happy
Grant had bandaged it roughly. He had it dressed
by a chemist, which took a little time, so that it was
nearly four o’clock when he arrived at the Mcßrides’,
only to find that Nancy, for the first time since she
had come from Lammas, was staying away from
home. He rang her up, half expecting that she would
not be able to see him, but her reply set him tingling
with happiness and excitement.
“Of course I’ll come,” she said. “It will be about
six, I’m afraid, what with train connections and one
thing and another. I’ll meet you at your hotel. We
can have dinner together, and then go somewhere.
Get the tickets while you’re waiting music if you
can, or something bright.”
Long before six he was standing by the main
entrance to the hotel waiting for her. It was after
the hour when he saw her coming along the pavement.
He walked out to meet her.
“Almost on time,” she said cheerfully. “It was
a rush to get here at all; there are so few trains.”
“What about to-night?” he said. “Is there a train
you can catch after the theatre?”
“I’m not going back. I’ll stay at home to-night.
I haven’t told them yet, but it doesn’t matter. I can
ring them later, and I have my own key. Robin, you
look like nothing on earth! What’s the matter?”
“Vaccination! It’s nothing, really. Everyone
gets sick with it, more or less. I’m at the worst stage,
I expect.”
“Your face is like the Japanese flag. You’ve
probably got a temperature just below boiling point
and should be in bed.”
“Well, I’m not going.”
“Seriously, it might be better if you did. I’ll sit
and hold your hand, if that’s any comfort.”
“Like hell you would —in a hotel bedroom.”
“No, at home. There’s plenty of room.”
“I’ve been there once to-day.” Robin made a
grimace. “I’m not going there again, even with you.
It’s too grim.”
“Poor old souls. But you needn’t see them.”
“I’m not going to bed! We’re going to have
dinner —and a good dinner. Afterwards we’re going
to a musical comedy. I forget the name of it. This
is my last night, and I’m not going to spoil it. You’re
a darling to come. It would be too God-awful alone.”
“Did you think for a minute I wouldn’t come?”
SITTING together at dinner, she asked him:
“Now tell me what this leave is all about—in
the middle of the week. A bit sudden, isn’t it? I
thought you were getting no more time off before
sailing.”
“We’re sailing to-morrow,” Robin said. “You
knew that.”
“To-morrow!” She caught her breath sharply.
“I didn’t know. Do you realise I haven’t seen you
or heard from you for nearly a month? Not since
before you went home. Isn’t Myrna coming down?”
“To-morrow. She’ll be in the train now.”
“But why not to-day? Did she know you had
the night free? Or didn’t you have time to tell her?”
“We knew yesterday. I sent her a wire.” He
pulled a telegram from his tunic pocket. “Here’s her
reply.”
Nancy read it slowly.
“Did she know you were sick?” she said.
“No ; but it wouldn’t have made any difference.”
“It might. I think it would. But that doesn’t
excuse her. She should have come. It was unfair —
and stupid!” She stopped suddenly. “I suppose I
have no right to criticise your wife to you.”
“I wish you wouldn’t.” Robin was nervously
crumbling bread beside his plate. “You see, I’ve been
doing the same thing—and I know I’m wrong. Her
outlook is practical and sensible mine isn’t. I’d
sacrifice everything to the need of the moment.”
“Would you!” Nancy laughed. “For heaven’s
sake stop making a mess with that bread. I suppose
I’m the need of the moment now. Since Myrna
deserted you you rang up Nancy, having left me alone
for weeks. Had Myrna come down you wouldn’t
even have bothered to tell me you were sailing—to say
good-bye. Well, I didn’t let you down.” Looking at
his face, she added quickly “I’m sorry, Robin.”
He wished he didn’t feel so queer, light-headed.
The room was a confused jumble of sound and move-
ment. Even Nancy’s face across the table was blurred.
He looked down, trying to adjust his sight, feeling
very giddy.
She was angry, he thought, and with him. He
had never seen her in a temper before. He wanted
to say something—anything—but was at a loss for
words. The outward confusion seemed to have sur-
rounded and swamped his brain. He struggled out
of a welter of tumbling thoughts and said quite
clearly, with unnatural precision, “I didn’t want to
see you,” surprising himself, for it was as though his
tongue gave expression to thought which had not
been there.
“You didn’t want me to come!”
“I don’t mean that.” If only the room would
keep still for a little while. “Look here,” he blurted
out in desperation, “I wanted you so badly that I
nearly didn’t send that wire at all. I’ve wanted you
for ages loved you. But what was the use? I
couldn’t have you—couldn’t tell you. This —to-day—
seemed fated, inevitable. I’ve done my best, but it
couldn’t be that way. Now I’ve given up trying. I
don’t want to try any more ... Now you know.”
She was silent, and he kept his head bent, afraid
to look up, though his sight was clearer. He said
soberly “I seem to have been an awful fool. If you
can pass it over and stay with me till after the theatre
I’d be glad.”
Her hand came out across the table. He felt
it gripping his, and looked up to find her smiling.
“You idiot!” she said.
“You don’t mind?”
“No!” She was laughing now.
“Then you’ll stay?”
“Of course. You can’t get rid of me as easily
as that.”
Suddenly elated and reckless, he said “Will you
stay after the theatre?”
“Yes.”
“I mean don’t leave me at all —stay till the morn-
ing.”
“I know you meant that.”
■ OOKING around the room, Nancy said “This is
■" gorgeous! Like a millionaire’s suite at the Ritz,
or wherever they have them. I’m beginning to suspect
you, Robin. Do you always engage a double bed and
a bathroom for yourself?” She threw back her head
and laughed. “Why, you’ve even got a cot. You do
think of everything. Who were you expecting? It
couldn’t have been me. Who was the third need
of the moment?”
“I was going to meet the train and bring Myrna
here to breakfast. The cot was for Kathleen. I don’t
know what the hotel people will think now.”
“This is getting more and more exciting. Did
you tell them your wife would not be arriving till
five o’clock in the morning?”
“No,” Robin grinned, “but they’ll wonder where
the children are.”
“Oh, ring up and say we parked them in the
Domain. I suppose you haven’t in that bag of yours
a nightgown—for Myrna?”
“No ; but there’s a clean pair of pyjamas if you
want them. And if you think they’re there on purpose
you’re wrong. This bag is full of clothes I brought
when I first came to camp. I meant to take it home
when I had final leave, but forgot. Nan, I feel abso-
lutely rotten. Do you think a hot bath would be
good or bad?”
“It will probably kill you, but you might as well
die here with me as alone on the veldt or whatever
they have in Palestine.” She turned to him suddenly,
pulling his hot face down to hers. “I’m only half
joking. My dear, my dear, I can’t bear to think of
your going too. And yet, after to-night, what is there
left in life for you or for me but memories and
memories you will want to forget.”
“I!” he said. “How could I want to forget?”
“You will.”
“Why should there be nothing but memories?
What do you think this means to me?”
“Just the need bf the moment. No, I don’t mean
that —I’m sorry.”
He pushed her shoulders back, looking down into
her face.
“Look here,” he said, “what’s happening to you?
What do you mean? When I come back I’m coming
straight to you.”
“You’ll go to Myrna. You’ll have no choice.”
“Do you mean you won’t come with me if I am
divorced?”
“I’ll go with you, divorce or no divorce. It won’t
be me. The decision will be made by you—or circum-
stances compelling you.” She put her hand over his
mouth. “Don’t argue now. I don’t want to explain
it, but I know—just as I know I’m not a hopelessly
wicked and abandoned woman for doing what I am
doing. I don’t feel any disloyalty to Myrna. Perhaps
I should, but I don’t. I’m getting morbid, and I don’t
want to be morbid to-night. I think really I’m
dreading being left alone —with you over there, and
the others dead. And, dear, I love you so.”
ROBIN lay awake. All night he had tossed in a
feverish dream, sometimes coming to full con-
sciousness for a moment, to find Nancy’s arm, sure
and comforting, around him. She was asleep herself
now. He could hear her breathing, deep and even
and untroubled.
Looking at his watch, he found that it was twenty
minutes to five and suddenly remembered that Myrna
might come to the hotel expecting to find him there.
In a panic he jumped out of bed and started to dress.
Nancy woke when he put on the light, and asked
sleepily “What are you doing?”
“I’m going to meet the train,” he said. “If I
don’t Myrna might come here.”
“Why should she? But go if you’re worried
about it. How long will you be?”
“Nearly an hour. Good-bye,” and he was gone.
At half-past five he was back, and Nancy asked:
“Did you meet them?”
“No,” he said, “I was too late. I’m glad. Old
Peter Brain was on the platform. He put them into
a cab, he told me, and sent them off to Vaucluse.
It’s not daylight yet.”
“What time do you have to be back in camp?”
“There’s a train leaves at nine.”
“Then you have nearly three hours to rest. Come
back to me. This is good-bye, Robin. I’m not coming
to the wharf.”
Chapter XX.
CIGARETTES and flags! Flags
high over buildings; flags in
people’s hands ; flags in windows.
Flags and cigarettes! Cigarettes!
His pockets were bulging with them, and
still people were crowding in to push more into his
hands. Cigarettes and flags and wattle. Where the hell
did the wattle come from at this time of year? Some-
one thrust a spray of yellow blossom into his bandolier,
crushing against his arm so that he was suddenly sick
with the feel of it. On his right side he felt the rough
support of Happy Grant’s shoulder, and a hand grasp-
ing his tunic.
“Hold up, mate! Feelin’ crook again? Gimme
your kitbag and don’t be a bloody fool.”
“No,” Robin said. “I can manage all right; but
change places with me. Let me get on the inside,
where they can’t bump my arm.”
It was better this way, between Grant and
Hamilton. Either of them would relieve him of his
load if it became too much for him, and both of them
would hold him up should he grow faint, though he
did not think there would be any need for this unless
something hurt his arm badly. It couldn’t be very
far now to the wharf. The nightmare march must
be nearly over, and, once there, once in the ship, he
would be safe. This fear of being left behind had
grown to an obsession. He' wasn’t really ill. Not
seriously ; not enough to be stopped from joining the
ship. He couldn’t be. They wouldn’t put him out
now. There were one or two others in the march
who must be as sick as he, wishing it was over.
Leaving camp, they had marched to the train,
and Robin had made certain that he was a number
four, so that when the command “Sections right! ”
was given he would be on the left of the section, with
his swollen arm free from any interference. Leaving
the train to march from Sydney station to the wharf
he had fallen in in the same position, but very soon
there had been crowds lining the way, excited people
waving stupid little flags and pressing gifts on the
troops. More than once he had been jostled, and
each time he had felt very sick, until he had dreaded
contact so much that anyone even brushing close to
his arm would give him the same ghastly feeling. It
was, too, a wretched day ; cold, with a light rain
falling, though no order had been given to unroll
greatcoats, and the street was slippery and often foul
with mud and slime. It seemed so stupid, this busi-
ness of marching heavily laden men from end to end
of the city. The idea, probably, was to keep alive
and warm the enthusiasm of the people for war. The
sight of uniforms and marching men would thrill them.
They would feel brave and right; self-sacrificing, and
cheering the greater sacrifice of the men who were
marching. Giving paper packets of cigarettes, and
decking their heroes with dripping flags and wattle.
Robin wished he could sleep. If only the march
were over! If he could lie down and shut his aching
eyes and rest his aching body! How long would
they have to wait at the wharf? Parents and friends
and relatives would be there to say good-bye to the
men. Myrna would be there Myrna and the
children.
Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! He was feeling worse.
He thought he would have to give up the kitbag to
Happy Grant. His shoulders and back were aching.
Myrna would be there —Myrna and the children. He
didn’t want to see them. If only he could march
right into the ship and lie down!
Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! Every step jarred
him. There was no spring in his feet. They came
down heavily, his legs like rigid bars... The worst
buck to ride was that of a horse which came down
stiff-legged... It jarred you right through, back and
shoulders and neck —just as his legs were jarring him
now.
Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! He swayed and
lurched, coming hard against Grant, crushing his bad
arm. The pain this time was exquisite. It seemed
to clear his head. It was so clear, so light, that his
mind seemed to be apart from his body. There was
something there that had been Robin Stewart walking
in the rain, his legs moving forward, tramp! tramp!
tramp! while a man on each side held him up. How
silly. That wasn’t he at all. He wanted to tell them
that there was no need to hold that up.
HE was sitting on a pile of timber beside Happy
Grant, and Grant’s arm was around him.
“Well, mate, we’re ’ere!”
Happy’s voice, starting a long way off, came
closer with a rush—like tuning-in one of those new
wireless sets, Robin thought. He asked why they
were sitting down and what had become of the kit-
bags.
“We’re ’ere, I said,” Grant told him. “The bags
’as gone aboard.”


So they were at the wharf at last. Myrna and
the children would be there. He asked Happy:
“Where is she?” and then he saw her coming towards
him, carrying Kathleen and leading Margaret. Mar-
garet’s free hand was clutching a bunch of yellow
wattle. She looked worried, and suddenly Robin
smiled, knowing that she was worried about the
blossoms, which were almost more than she could
manage. He stood up to meet them, in spite of
Happy Grant’s anxious growl: “Sit down! D’you
want to take an ’eader into the mud?”
|U|YRNA and the children had been waiting for
Uj hours. It was nearly half-past two, and she had
been told that the ship would sail at noon. The
children were complaining bitterly. They were hungry
and cold and tired. All night and half a day in the
train, a strange house where they could not rest, and
now this. It was raining, too —not heavily, as it had
been when they left the train that morning, but the
ground beside the wharf was a churned-up mass of
wet clay, and everywhere there were pools of yellow
water, unexpectedly deep. She had trodden in one
and her leg was wet to the knee. Kathleen’s white
woolly coat was smeared all over, and the shoes and
socks of both children were covered with mud. She
would have liked to get them something to eat, even
a bag of biscuits, but she dared not leave them and
would not take them with her into the mud and
drizzle.
Under the roof of the wharf they were sheltered
from the rain, though there seemed no corner where
they could escape the bitter wind. Then, too, if she
went to get food she might miss Robin. She did not
know at what moment the troops might arrive nor
how long they would be before embarking. In the
beginning there had been only a few people on the
wharf, but about half-past one they started to flock
in. It was then that she realised that she had been
misinformed about the time of sailing.
She had expected to hear from Robin, had half
expected to see him at the station when the train
arrived. Probably, when she could not come down,
he had not taken that last night’s leave and had been
too busy to ring her in the morning. Poor Robin!
He had probably been very disappointed when he
received her wire. His own had been like him, im-
petuous and extravagantly urgent. She could not
possibly have come at such short notice. He would
be very hurt with her for sending that short wire, but
it was impossible to explain everything in a telegram,
and a letter would not have reached him.
She wished this wretched day was over. To see
him for a moment, and then no more, perhaps for
years—perhaps for ever. She would rather not have
left Lammas —have said good-bye when he returned
from final leave.
She did not understand the war. This sacrifice
of life had always seemed so unnecessary, so wasteful
and stupid, and in Robin’s case doubly so. There
seemed no possible reason for him to enlist, and she
could not understand the motives which urged him
to throw away his substance and perhaps his life. He
had from the outbreak of the war spoken hardly at
all of his wish to join the army, but she knew the
longing was there, growing in intensity as the years
passed.
He had his wish now, and she had helped him to
it as far as she was able. She wondered if he would
ever realise this; ever know what it had cost her to
subjugate her own feelings to give him the desire of
his heart, believing all the time that he was foolish
with the foolishness of a headstrong child —unfair to
her, to the children and to himself. Well, she had
tried the other way, tried to lead him to understanding
and security, but he would not be led ; and, trying to
force him, she had nearly lost him. Now she was
going his way, feeling all the time as though she was
walking towards quicksands, deliberately, with her
eyes open, taking the children with her, keeping pace
with one who could see only a visionary gleam beyond
the sands.
There was cheering in the distance. They were
coming. Men were going about amongst the people
selling streamers and flags and wattle. Why didn’t
they sell something sensible sandwiches and bis-
cuits?
The head of the column swung around a corner.
She could see them a long way off, hear them singing.
It really was thrilling—and Robin, her man, was one
of them. Kathleen was pulling at her skirts, and she
lifted her up, disregarding the muddy shoes.
SHE looked along the line of halted men, but for a
while she could not see him. Then as the order
was given to break off she discovered him, supported
between two men, and she was suddenly cold with
apprehension. He was drunk! She wanted to go
away and leave him, go away before he recognised
her. She could not face a drunken Robin here in
public.
The two men led him to a pile of timber, and one
of them stayed with him. An officer came over and
spoke to them, and she heard one of the men say:
“ ’E’s all right. . Trod in an ’ole and fell on ’is vaccin-
ated arm. Give ’im a bit of a turn. ’E’ll be as right
as pie in a minute.”
She went to him then, hurrying through the mud.
ROBIN felt that he would like to see them once
again—the children and Myrna—but he couldn’t
push through the men crowding and jostling along the
rail. Myrna would probably be gone. She would
not expect to see him, for he had promised her to
lie down as soon as he was on board. He didn’t
know where to go. There seemed nowhere to rest.
Down in the hold, where they were to live and sleep,
there were tables and benches but nowhere where one
could lie down in comfort. At night, he understood,
hammocks were issued which would be swung above
the tables.
The decks on the side nearest the wharf were
crowded, but on the other side there was no one, and
he sat down here, wedged in a corner, his back against
a smooth steel wall. There were cheers and calls and
confused noise. He wished they’d shut up and get
moving. He wasn’t really safe until the ship pulled
into the stream. They couldn’t put him off then.
Someone tripped over his feet, and Happy Grant
was bending over him.
“ ’Ere ’e is, ’Ammy! ” he shouted, and then to
Robin “Blime! We thought you’d taken an ’eader
into the big drink. ’Ammy ’as a bottle o’ plonk.
Come and ’ave a taste. It’ll do you good.”
Down below, behind a pile of baggage, Hamilton
pulled a quart bottle of sweet red wine from his hip
pocket. He thrust it into Robin’s hand.
“Don’t be frightened of her,” he said. “There’s
plenty ; and she’s good stuff. We’ll have to drink
out of the bottle.”
THE wine, thought Robin, must be very potent. No
drink had affected him so quickly. He clung to
a stanchion and stared stupidly at Happy Grant.
Everything seemed to be turning and swaying. He
wanted to sit down. He was ineffably weary, and his
head ached.
“When do we pull out?” he.asked.
“Hell!” Hamilton said. “We got away hours
ago-. Well outside now —and turning south, by the
feel of her.”
Robin said thickly “I’m going to sit down —and
I’m going to be sick.”
The last he remembered before his senses left
him was a remark of Happy Grant’s: “What a
bloomin’ waste of good plonk! ”
Two days out at sea, lying in a bunk in the ship’s
hospital, these words were still ringing in his head.
Chapter XXL
THREE thousand yards ahead of the
regiment ran a line of low hills,
and somewhere in these hills was
a Turkish army in retreat. Between
the retreating army and the regiment,
halted now in the protecting fold of a deep waddy,
was hidden a Turkish rearguard, probably entrenched.
“Action at last,” Robin thought. The test for
him was close.
Now that the moment of actual contact had come
he was not excited. Joining the regiment at Bethle-
hem ; camping in the Jordan Valley; crossing the
river; the night march, when the regiment had left
the brigade, riding hard in an endeavor to gain touch
with an elusive body of Turks cut off from escape
across the Jordan —all these events had been thrilling,
stimulating. Now, when he believed he should have
been keyed up to the highest pitch, he seemed to have
reached an anticlimax. He felt flat and uninterested.
Even when his troop was ordered forward to draw
fire he had no sense of riding into danger, only the
wish, as he had had it in the training school on the
canal, to do the right thing and to do it efficiently.
“Tell me again,” he asked Steve Dent, “just what
happens.”
“There’s .nothing to it,” Dent told him. “We
spread out a bit here and ride straight ahead at a
walk until Jacko fires. That tells them back there
just where he is. Once we draw his fire we turn and
ride back —as fast as you like.”
This business of drawing fire seemed to Robin
at first a very desperate expedient, though the old
hands treated it lightly.
“We’ve been doing it all along,” Steve Dent told
him. “I’ve only seen one man get his issue that way.
A horse or two gets knocked sometimes, but not
often. Jacko doesn’t seem able to keep quiet. When
you get within a few hundred yards one or two of
them seem to do their blocks and let fly. Then the
game’s up. They tried it with us once. We let ’em
get within twenty yards, and then dropped every horse
and killed or took every man.”
It was a new Steve Dent whom Robin had met
when he joined the regiment. Older, more self-reliant,
with a knowledge behind his steady eyes which had
not been there when he left Croy, a reckless, irrespon-
sible youth. It was this, the maturity and quiet
confidence of all the men, that made the greatest
impression on Robin. This and their look of war-
weariness. They were hard-bitten, alert and amazingly
efficient, but over them all lay the shadow of a great
weariness. He had noticed it a little in the returned
men he had seen in Australia, but never so startlingly
as in these men in the East. Malaria, probably, was
the chief cause. With Hughie Mclntyre it had seemed
an insupportable burden.
The troop moved steadily forward. Robin sup-
posed he should have been conscious of nothing
but the business in hand, but instead he found his
thoughts wandering to the weary months before
joining the regiment. Six weeks on the troopship—
eight weeks in Egypt, training.
The sea journey had been ghastly. The first
two weeks he had spent in a hospital bed, horribly ill.
This had been a dream life, hardly remembered except
as an interminable period of mental confusion and
bodily suffering, when time stood still and vision and
reality had been inseparably blended.
Released from hospital he had found it hard to
adjust himself to the ways of his fellow-passengers.
Shut up in a confined space, with nothing to do but
parade for physical drill each day and attend church
service on Sundays, they grumbled and lazed about,
were discontented with their food, and grew careless
and dirty in their habits.
The men were divided into messes of eight or
ten, who ate and lived each at a separate table. The
duties of mess orderly were taken in turn, and these
included keeping the table and eating utensils clean,
carrying food and calling the men to mess. Robin,
during his term of duty, brought the wrath of the
whole mess on his head and almost precipitated a free
fight when he called them to dinner by banging on a
tin plate and shouting “Pig! Pig! Pig!” They
came with a rush, demanding an explanation. As
not one of them could see any humor in it, he made
matters worse by bursting into a loud guffaw when
one man said:
“It’s not so much whether you meant it or not—
it’s the principle of the thing we object to.”
From that day until the end of the voyage they
treated him with scant friendliness. He was on a
different plane from them. He was superior—or so
they believed he thought himself. He disapproved of
their habits and their talk, and —strange incongruity—
he was more radical, for he scoffed at sentiments
sacred to them, and was unaffected by death or
religion. Both of these things, though a man might
joke about them in the abstract, were matters to be
taken with serious reverence when he personally came
face to face with them.
Throughout the voyage he had never been
entirely free from seasickness, as he had never been
free from disturbing thoughts of home. Some time
before he returned he would have to face squarely
the problem of himself and Myrna and Nancy. He
kept putting off any decision as to a final adjustment,
though he allowed himself to contemplate a future
when he and Nancy would be together and the past
for ever forgotten. He kept telling himself that there
was no need to decide yet —there might never be any
need. If he were shot...
THEY had been riding quite a while. The hills were
suddenly much closer, and somewhere this side
of tne mils were Turkish rifles. Everything seemed
so still and peaceful. The men on each side of him
seemed to have no cares in the world. They might
all be riding across the Lammas river plains, except
for the difference in the country. This was hard and
dry-looking, but might grow grass when the rains
came. The Jordan Valley had been a dust-heap, and
Egypt sand.
The reinforcements had disembarked at Ismalia,
on the canal, and had marched across the sand to the
camp at Moasca. Robin had never walked in sand
before, and, laden as he was and soft from inaction,
he found it more exhausting than any physical effort
he had yet made. All along the route were men in
uniform trousers and singlets taking stock of the new
recruits. Occasionally a man would recognise a
friend. There would be a cheerful hail and words of
greeting; the recruit would hand over his kitbag or
some of his gear and walk on with lighter steps and a
lighter heart, his friend beside him.
Robin saw none whom he knew for several days,
then Hughie Mclntyre came to him. Hughie was
recovering from malaria. He told Robin that he would
be going up to the regiment in a few days and thought
he could arrange for Robin to come with him.
He never saw Hughie again. Later he learnt that
Mclntyre had had a bad relapse and had been taken
again to hospital. This was Robin’s first disappoint-
ment. From then on, try where and how he would,
he could get no closer to the front but was compelled
to stay on the canal, training first in dismounted drill
and musketry and then in a riding school.
Fretting to have done with it and go to the
regiment, he put his whole soul into the work of
training, hoping that his obvious knowledge and
efficiency would free him more quickly. It nearly
proved his undoing. He was singled out for special
training, excelled in this, and was finally appointed
instructor, with the temporary rank of sergeant.
In despair he roamed through the camp looking
for anyone who might help him out of this backwater
of inaction. He found none, but as luck would have
it he contracted dysentery and was sent to a rest-
camp in Port Said, where the first person he met was
Barney Case, now in charge of the regiment. From
then on the way was smooth, and in little more than
a week he was in the train, moving up through Pales-
tine, still rather washed-out from the dysentery but
contented and thrilled with the prospect of action at
last. That was early in September, with Allenby’s
great offensive just starting.
STEVE DENT, riding to the left of Robin, was roll-
ing a cigarette, probably in contravention of all
right conduct. He seemed entirely unconcerned. The
reins were hooked loosely over his arm and he was
intent on moulding the little white spool of tobacco.
Robin saw him lick the paper, pinch the tobacco from
each end, put the completed cigarette in his mouth
and feel in his tunic pocket for matches.
They must have ridden a long way. Robin had
a sudden cold shiver of fear, thinking “If they let
us get close up and open with machine-guns we’ll all
go.” But Steve was lighting his cigarette with the
reins still looped on his arm, and the man on his
right, who carried a rifle bucket, was making some
adjustment to it. Neither of them seemed worried
what might be ahead or how close were the Turks.
These men had been through years of war, but
Robin had not seen a shot fired. He had joined the
regiment at Bethlehem, where it was resting, and
almost at once had ridden to join the brigade in the
Jordan Valley. Wonderful things were happening all
around. Victories were won, prisoners were taken,
British troops held the passages of the Jordan north
of the Dead Sea, the seventh and eighth Turkish
armies were virtually wiped out. All these happen-
ings Robin heard of as he would have heard of them
in Australia. Though he was in the middle of events
he had taken no part in them. Then came the crossing
of the Jordan, the advance towards Aman, the regi.
ment on special duty, the night march.
(To be concluded next week.)


£55 for Short Stories
For the best short stories, serious or humorous, submitted before
January 31, 1937, “The Bulletin’’ offers the following prize-
money :
First £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Best Brief Story £5
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be paid for at
“Bulletin” rates.
Closing date for the competition is January 31, 1937. But it is not
intended to wait till then before publishing entries; any considered to
have a chance will be paid for and published week by week as they
come to hand.. At the close of the competition ALL the entries will
be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor’s hitherto unpublished original work,
and must be accompanied by a declaration to that effect.
Entries must not exceed 5000 words. The special prize of £5 for the
best brief story will go to the best story of 1000 words or less. It, of
course, will also have equal chance with longer entries of taking any
of the other prizes.
Pen-names may be used, but the full names and addresses of the winners
will be published when the results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as he or she desires,
and there is no entry fee.
No member of “The Bulletin” staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:—
“Short Story Competition,"
C/o “THE BULLETIN,"
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Insurance
and
Prosperity
The first deposit of an Assurance
Policy creates an immediate
Estate for the full amount
of the policy selected. You
purchase a lump sum of money
for future delivery—an unfail-
ing protection to your depend-
ents,. and a comfort to you
during life.
tQUITABLf PRoBKfe
GENERAL INSURANCE C? UP
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
'tmltop fsTm*£
PERTH'S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Comedy of Government Men:-
ON HIS MAJESTY'S
SERVICE
BY FREEMAN SANDOM
THE harbormaster at Barrierville is
also inspector of fisheries. Peter
Holzkopf and I went to see him
about licenses to set up fishtraps. His
clerk met us politely. “You want to
build two fishtraps on Dugong Island?
Certainly.”
He produced forms from a pigeonhole.
“Fill these in, please. I’ll send your
applications south. When they come
back okayed you pay three pounds for
the trap license and a quid for survey
fee. Then his nibs’ll send the pilot-boat
along to do the surveying. Boat and
personal licenses you have already, I un-
derstand. Good.”
Peter produced a large rubber tobacco-
pouch and began to fish banknotes out
of it.
“Not yet, sir,” said the clerk smiling.
“It’ll be time to pay when the reply
comes back from the south. Don’t worry,
there’ll be no difficulties. More traps,
more revenue! Good!”
I helped Peter to deal with the long
string of questions—Born when? Where?
Age? Address? Previous address?
Occupation? Married? Single?—and
we signed.
“Call back in a fortnight or three
weeks,” said the clerk. “Good-bye,
good-bye.”
Outside Peter wanted to know what
the palaver was about. I explained.
“Bud id vill too late be!” he
exclaimed.
“End of September the papers’ll be
back,” I calculated; “three weeks to cut
mangrove sticks, freight the wire and
other gear across, build traps and camps.
We’ll still have three clear months before
the cyclone season is on us ; then there
mightn’t be a cyclone this year. It could
be worse, Peter! We’ll get our money
back and a bit over.”
A FORTNIGHT later to the minute
■'* I called again and was told that no
reply had > yet been received. But it
would be along shortly.
“No,” said the clerk, “no reply yet,
but it shouldn’t be long now. Oh, yes,
they’ll give you the license all right—
sure! The department wants revenue,
Mr. Flowers, ha, ha!”
I reflected that if I wanted Peter’s
company on Dugong Island we had
better get on with this fishtrap business,
license or no license. Smart Alicks are
to be encountered even in a small town,
and it would be ridiculously easy to strip
old Peter of his worldly wealth. He car-
ries it all in that rubber tobacco-pouch
since the bank crash of the ’nineties.
So I went straight
to Fries, Yelp and
Co. and ordered
twenty - four coils
of wire-netting, and
next morning we
began the freight-
ing of it to Dugong
Island. For the
next few weeks we
were too busy, and
too tired, even to
think of going to
town: I up to my knees in the
mud of an evil-smelling mangrove
swamp, with the axe-blade cleaving
through dense clouds of sandflies and
mosquitoes to reach the saplings, and
Peter loading them into the flattie and
towing them to the island. This is the
only really hard work connected with
a fishtrap, and, believe me, it’s a dose
strong enough to remember for a twelve-
month—then, since a year is the aver-
age life of sticks and wire, it is time
to do it all over again.
That part of the work finished, we
dragged our nets for a haul of mullet,
and I ran in to town for a bit of fresh
meat and other provisions and to collect
our licenses.
“OORRY,” said the clerk, “there’s
been some delay—no, nothing
wrong, just unavoidable departmental
delay. In a week or so it’s sure to be
along.”
A fortnight or so after that the traps
were finished, and, as usual with new
traps, we caught a lot of fish. We
dragged the nets, too, and seldom a day
passed but we ran to town with a haul.
The harbormaster’s clerk was getting
a little peevish. “You can’t rush the de-
partment, Mr. Flowers,” he said one
day. “It’ll be okay. Still, if the reply
isn’t to hand in a week or so I’ll send
’em a reminder.”
For the next month I did not go near
the office—myself, I never worry, and I
did not want to worry the clerk. Besides
we were very busy, running fish to
market, constructing poultry-runs and
building us a humpy apiece.
Then came two letters to my post
office address —one for Peter. I brought
them home, and we Opened them to-
gether. Both contained the same infor-
mation, word for word—Peter said it
was waste of taxpayers’ money: one
letter would have done —asking us to
call “in reference to your application
for a license for a fishtrap situated on
Dugong Island. I remain, your obedient
servant”...
“Your opedient servant,” Peter read
out. “I haf a good mind der young
Spitzbub a goot kick to give. Vat for
he yokes me, Pill?”
“It’s no joke, Peter,” I explained. “It’s
just these office blokes’ way.”
"THE clerk received us with beaming
face. “All sereno! ”he called before
we were properly in the room. “You
got me a mild kick for trying to rush the
department, but it’s okay now. You
have your boat and personal licenses,
haven’t you? That’s right. Now, three
pounds for the trap and one for the sur-
vey each —correct! —your receipt. Now,
I’ll tell his nibs to send the pilot boat
along first chance we get. Schridmacher,
the cox’n, will do the surveying just
where you want it. Then you can start
constructing and make your fortune.
Good-bye.”
We said good-bye, explaining nothing.
The less you say to a Government man
the less you have to be sorry for. Dugong
Island is a good bit out of the way of
traffic, and though a number of people
knew of the existence of our traps little
was likely to be said about the matter.
Why should it? A man would be a
fool to build an eighty-pound trap be-
fore he had his license in order.
So we returned very pleased with all
things and sat down, so to speak, to
wait for the surveying launch. Christmas
came and went, and so did the new
year. “Lot’s of shipping, coming and
going, just now,” said the clerk when I
called one day, “and the launch is very
busy. But I’ve told his nibs, and they'll
be along shortly, for sure.”
We didn’t worry ; the fishing had been
exceptionally good, and we had got our
money back—many times over, in fact.
But on the fourteenth day of February
they came.
The launch anchored under lee of the
bluff, her shining white paint and brass-
work a “bicdure for sore eyes,” as Peter
said. The cox’n was rowed ashore in
style.
“Well, I reckon there ain’t much use
surveyin’ trap-sites here,” he told our re-
ception committee of two. “Just stick ’em
up anywhere you like, say from them two
points where all them dead mangroves
are pokin’ out of the mud. Them points
are over half a mile apart, ain’t they?
That’s all you gotter watch, see?”
“A mile and a quarter,” I said.
“Well, that’s that. I see you keep
hens: got any fresh eggs to sell?”
“"THANKS!” said the cox’n, stepping
' into the boat half an hour later.
“Well, so long, lads, and I hope you’ll
catch a lot of fish. Don’t forget to sell
the wife a pound or two when you come
to town. Well, that’s that.”
A boat-length or two from shore he
twisted round in the stern sheets.
“Lucky you ain’t put up them traps
before,” he shouted to drdwn the surf ;
“there ain’t a single trap standing round
Barrierville since the day before yester-
day. The cyclone made a clean sweep! ”


Next Week
The Xmas “Bulletin”
A fine collection of Short Stories
by.—
Katharine Susannah Prichard,
Henry G. Lamond, Herbert
Dawson, E. Mary Gurney,
Les Robinson, Frank Middle-
miss, John Jones and J. H.
Schmeider.
The final chapters of Eric
Lowe’s Australian novel,
“I SOLD MY HORSES.”
And Australia’s finest
black-and-white work by
Norman Lindsay, Scor-
field, Frith , Unk White,
Horner and other “Bulle-
tin” artists .
-s=2
■w
BANK DEPOSITS
STIMULATE
PROSPERITY
Each depositor, by entrusting his
money to the Bank of New South
Wales, contributes to the prosperity
of the whole community.
The funds deposited with this Bank
by many thousands of thrifty
citizens, enable it to assist settlers
pioneering new areas; primary
producers and manufacturers ex-
tending operations, and traders
developing internal and external
trade.
Thus the individual depositor,
through the Bank, helps to create
employment, increase production
and stimulate progress and pros-
perity in which all share.
v ms.
CITAILIIHCP 1017
237A.193 6
THIS SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE ... r
SMOKE STAINS
R EMW&
safe way
Special stain-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is not contained in any other
leading dentifrice. Make the simple test that surprises smokers. Thousands
find dull, ugly teeth become naturally white and sparkling.
If you smoke, you’ve probably noticed stains on your teeth, or an ugly yellow
smudge. Now there is a way to keep the faintest smoke trace from showing on
your teeth. This way is Pepsodent, the special film-removing tooth paste.
No matter what dentifrice you now use, switch to Pepsodent to-day and make
the smokers’ test. See how Pepsodent immediately "takes hold’’ to make teeth
cleaner, whiter, more attractive. Let your mirror prove that they glisten with
natural whiteness many smokers think impossible to attain.
It Works in a More Effective Way
In Pepsodent is a special ingredient designed especially to remove the film on
teeth. It is this film, not the teeth themselves, that smoke discolors. Therefore,
this film must be removed if you want to escape that unnatural yellow color.
It is film your dentist tells you to remove in fighting tooth decay and other dental
troubles.
This remarkable film-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is contained in no other
leading dentifrice. Not only does it bring out the natural whiteness of your
teeth, but it also polishes enamel to the highest brilliance. In addition, this
"Special Film-Removing tooth paste” has another major distinction: it is the
softest . 1 . and therefore the safest ... of 15 leading
tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders as shown by
scientific tests.
Try Pepsodent to-day. Not until you do can you
know how beautifully white your teeth are.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have cut
costs and we are passing
the saving on to you.
The identical time-proved
Pepsodent is ready for you.
in the new larger tubes at
no increase in price.
N1363
Brief Character Study:-
HAEN
BY MARGARET FANE
& HILARY LOFTING
SOUP caught the seventh fly and ate
it. He glanced at Alf for applause,
but Alf was staring at the fire. Tired,
Alf was. So was Soup, for that matter.
“Y’see, Soup”—Soup flicked his stub
of tail from left to right and back again,
but Alf was still looking into the fire —
“what Ada says is so reasonable —
you know that.”
Soup waited for a bit more.
“I will be sixty-live in a week or two,
and” —Alf fished the letter out of his
back pocket. Soup snorted and put his
chin down on his paws; he was sick of
that letter—only about a quarter of it
made sense, anyway.
“Here’s where she says”
Soup yawned. There was something
in the air, something wrong. Alf was
tired, but he’d been tired before, with-
out all this thinking and reading letters
and talking about them. He watched
Alf peering at the letter.
The lilac distance over the plain was
thickening, would soon be grey and then
black. Alf had camped early in this
scrub at the plain’s edge—camping in
daylight was wrong, too —and the night
would be long. Well, they were tired.
Soup snorted softly again.
“ ‘You ought to have a haven of rest
at your age, and it’s here for you in a
godly house —your own house.’ Well,
that’s true, Soup, isn’t it? But I didn’t
want the house —who’d want a house in
Parramatta, with his only sister an old
maid on her own and no place for her?
I’ve never seen it. Twenty years. Ain’t
that right, Soup—it’s twenty years and
a bit more, isn’t it, since the old man
died? You remember”...
Alf watched the blurring distances a
moment. Of course, Soup didn’t re-
member ; he wasn’t born. It was years
after the old man’s death that Clarry
Urquhart, who ran the Quincy pub, had
said the pup looked like sixpennorth o’
soup-meat. They’d go through Quincy
on their way down and have a yarn
with Clarry. Maybe it would be the last.
Soup snorted again. Alf was putting
a log on the fire in the grey light; he
sat back on his heels and held the letter
to the firelight.
“ ‘You can get the pension next
month, and with my little income we
can manage very well. And you can stop
all this hard work and unchristian wan-
dering about the roads. Your illness is
the hand of Providence. You’re not
strong enough for that ungodly life
after pneumonia at your age.’ ”
Pneumonia. Soup knew about that;
he’d had it dinned into him at the hos-
pital where he’d parked himself on the
verandah and waited a lifetime for Alf.
He flicked the stub and grinned.
“Y’see, it’s like I told you, Soup—you
can’t get away from the commonsense
of it, can you? It’ll take us best part of
a week to get down —I’m not so good
on the road yet'—but we’ll get there all
right, won’t we? And it’ll be a haven
of rest for the end of our days, like
Ada says.”
To Soup all this was ashes. They’d
been on the road a day, and Alf had
talked nothing but this letter. That was
O.K. if that was how he felt, but Soup
had waited God knows how long on
that verandah.
“There’s one thing, Soup—we shan’t
turn up broke. I had most o’ me cheque
left when that pneumonia caught me.
an’ we’ve got the best part of it still.”
Cheque, was another thing Soup knew
about. You got a possie on the pub
verandah or in the street and waited for
Alf. When he did come he was often
in a bad temper and you had to watch
your step. But in the end he was always
better and more
comfortable to
travel with than
when he had the
cheque in his
pocket. Cheques
didn’t suit him.
ALF put the billy
on and opened
the tucker-bag. He
let it rest on his
knee a moment,
feeling the peace,
the kindness of
the gathering dark.
For forty years
this had been rest,
refreshment, life.
“There’ll be
brick streets and
that in Parramatta, Soup. But you don’t
want to be frightened of ’em —they won’t
hurt yer—but I’m just warnin’ yer, you
not being so old as me.”
Small friendly sounds were stirring in
the shadows, making a greeting after
that spell in the hospital. Old friends
come to greet him and say good-bye.
“Mind you, Ada may be religious, but
what she says is good, solid common-
sense. They wrote to her from the hos-
pital, an’ she wrote to me quick and
lively ; the first time she’s known where
I was for”
Soup caught the slab of corned-beef
and swallowed it in utter boredom.
“And, of course, it’ll be comfortable
—and we’ve got to do it. You know
that, don’t you?”
It was the cheque, the money in his
pocket—that was what it was. He
wouldn’t be himself till he was broke
again. Soup turned his back and gulped
his tea from his flat pannikin. Perhaps
he was only tired. Soup came back to
the. fire and curled round on the corner
of the blanket.
""THEY passed the old Box Valley
' marsh; travelling slowly and com-
fortably they’d be in Quincy by sun-
down.
Quincy. Clarry Urquhart. The pub.
Perhaps it wouldn’t be too clever to stop
and have a yarn with Clarry . . .
“Y’ see, Soup, Ada’ll be expectin’
us”...
Soup shut his ears. He’d had all of
that bosh that he could stand. The job
was to go comfortably through Quincy,
and then on down to this Ada.
But they didn’t go comfortably
through. Alf became silent and a bit
jumpy in the afternoon. Soup could
feel that a hell of a lot was wrong ; Alf
scowled at the road and the sky, mut-
tered and sighed, hitched his swag over
a dozen times a minute. Soup couldn’t
see what there was to make such a fuss
about when he came to think it out.
They’d been through all that before.
Reaching Quincy, they came down the
street in a beeline for the pub. Alf
slipped off his swag, pushed open the
door and vanished.


IMWNA77QMLL
\IBLPZim
WADE FAIRS
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
The world's trading centre. More than 8,000
manufacturers from 25 countries exhibit
practically every manufactured article . . .
the newest textiles, novelties, labor-saving
devices, etc., at most attractive prices.
COMMENCES FEB. 28, 1937.
You’ll see, also, the latest advertising and mer-
chandising ideas . . . ideas that will help to sell
the goods you buy. Join the 200,000 buyers
from all over the world who go to Leipzig twice
each year.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available from LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Com-
missioner In Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair;
L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
0. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street,
G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
11. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
No "B" Batteries
with this "Astor" Battery Radio
■I
One Standard 6-v. Accumulator
supplies both A and B voltages
Everybody not on the electric mains should trade in their present
battery set for one of these. No more "B" Batteries to buy—the one
6-v. accumulator supplies all the power needed. Accumulator guaran-
teed to give 100 hours operation after each full recharging. This
Astor gives higher power, greater selectivity and purer tone, too!
Write for full particulars. Set supplied complete with 6-v. accumulator.
£22 7 io OR EASY TERMS
DAVID JONES'
RADIO HALL, GEORGE ST, STORE
Soup sat down on the verandah. Find
a good possie, make yourself as com-
fortable as you can, steal or fight for
your tucker and wait —God knows how
Jong, but wait.
It wasn’t so bad this time. As the
morrow’s dark came down Alf fell out
of the pub, picked up himself and his
swag and glared murderously at Soup.
“C’m on, Soup,” he growled. “We
gotter get down to Ada, quick ’n’ lively,
see? She’s expectin’ us —y’ know that.”
Soup took charge as far as he could.
He’d been through this before often
enough, and found it a fairly simple job
if you kept your temper. One thing—
he’d be broke and himself again.
DUT it wasn’t the same as other times.
—' No clumsy making-camp in a mile
or two and sleeping it off. Alf walked
hell-for-leather through the night, walked
until he could walk straight, and then
kept on walking.
“Pension” seemed to be on his mind in
scorn, and “working man” as comfort;
“Old Ada” came into it a bit, but which
she was you couldn’t make out. Anyhow,
Soup wasn’t worrying; you never could
make much out of what he said these
times.
Soon the bush crept out to the road,
the big timber loomed over them. Alf
stopped muttering, held on at his usual
steady pace until Soup could feel that
all was well, that nothing was missing
or wrong.
In another hour the sun came com-
fortably up and looked at them. Alf
stopped, stood at gaze in the increasing
light. After a stunned moment he
laughed.
“Listen, Soup,” he said; “see that
stretch —that’s the old Box Valley
marsh! We’ve come the tvrong way!
We’re travelling back.” He laughed
again.
Watching him, Soup saw his gaunt
face become grave. He looked at the
bush waking at sun-up, listened hungrily
for the small sounds stirring.
“0.K.,” Alf said at last, half to him-
self and .half to Soup; “we’ll carry on
back. There’s a job out o’ Bongaderie.”
A Dramatic Brevity:—
SWIMMING HOME TO MECCA
By "SALPINX."
CALCUTTA to Jiddah with six hun-
dred pilgrims bound for Mecca!
Doctor West rubbed his hands
along the taffrail. He stared over the
glassy surface of the water. There was
not a ripple. The sandy heights of
Arabia were shimmering in the heat.
He must remember to do something
about his hands. They were irritating
more than usual.
Two years East of Suez studying tropi-
cal diseases. Was it worth while, he won-
dered. The little extra data in some
medical museum . . .
He fingered the marconigram in his
pocket. His aunt’s “nest egg” would
make him independent. He had been ex-
pecting it for some time. There had
been so many things he had wanted to
do. He would give up after this voyage.
Let somebody else do a share. He was
tired—horribly tired.
“Hi, doctor!”
The captain’s cheery voice broke in
on his reverie.
“Go and put your topee on, or else
come up here under these awnings.”
He pulled himself together. It was
foolish of him to stand there without a
hat; enough to give one sunstroke. He
turned and climbed to the bridge.
“You don’t look much of an advertise-
ment for your own medicine, doctor.”
The captain looked kindly at the young
face, pale under its tropical tan. He was
rather proud of his clever young surgeon
—make a great name for himself some
day.
“You’re right, sir. I’m feeling a bit
‘peeked’.”
The doctor leaned over the front of
the bridge. Below him was the foredeck,
crowded with pilgrims, six hundred of
them. They were all facing the same way
—towards Mecca, the shrine of the
Prophet.
The muezzin was standing on the
fo’c’sle. His words came clearly across
the deck: “Allahu akbar —Allahu akbar
—Allahu akbar. Ashadu an la ilahu” . . .
“Pious lot, aren’t they?”
The captain was leaning by his side.
“Fanatical fools!” Doctor West
grunted.
“At least,” said the captain, “they’re
true to the light they have.”
There was a piercing cry. A half-
naked Moslem flung his arms above his
head. Nobody attempted to restrain him.
He stepped deliberately on the rail. With
a wild shriek he plunged headlong into
the sea. He was swimming to Mecca.
The captain’s hand shot forward. The
engine telegraph clanged. He barked an
order at the quartermaster. The ship,
shuddering from stem to stern, traced a
great white curve in her wake.
When the lifeboat returned alongside
the captain was leaning over the rail.
“No good, sir—he’s gone.”
“Gone to Mecca!” mutterd the cap-
tain. “All right, heave up the boat.”
Dinner was
nearly over.
The captain and
the doctor were
still weighing Mos-
1e m philosophy
with their dessert.
“East is East
and West is West,” quoted the captain.
The doctor rubbed his hands along
the edge of the table. They were irri-
tating more than ever to-night. Sailors
could be such obtuse fellows. They were
all tinged with the odium of superstition.
Anyway, perhaps he had had too much
sun to-day. He was feeling tired. He
would turn in early.
“To have a pilgrim swimming home to
Mecca is bad. Still, I’ve seen ’em do it
before. I’d sooner see that happen on my
ship than an outbreak of one of these
tropical diseases. I remember one voyage
when yellow fever broke out; thirty
cases of it. We were quarantined out-
side Jiddah for three months.”
“Yellow fever would be bad on ship-
board,” murmured the doctor. He was
losing interest. He wanted to get away.
“Not as bad as leprosy. I remember
an outbreak twenty years ago. I was
second mate at the time. Within three
days of the first case being discovered
there were twelve men showing the symp-
toms. The trouble was we couldn’t get
away from each other. A ship of living
death, that was.”
The doctor had risen from his seat.
“You had better count me out on that
game of bridge to-night, sir. I don’t
feel up to it. I’m turning in.”
He thrust his hands in his pockets, and
with a curt “good night” left the saloon.
(‘CEVEN o’clock, captain sahib.”
native boy paused with his
hand on the door-curtain. The captain
sat up in his berth and yawned.
“Burra sahib wants to speak to you,
captain sahib.”
“All right, ask him to wait till I’m
dressed.”
He put his legs over the edge of the
berth and stuck his feet in his slippers.
The officer brushed past the native boy
and stepped into the room.
“Sorry, sir, but I must speak to you
right away.”
“Well?”
“The doctor is not in his room this
morning, sir. There is a note on his
table. It is addressed to you.”
“Well, where is it?”
“We’ve searched the ship. I didn’t
think it advisable to disturb anything, sir.”
The captain grabbed his dressing-gown
and followed his chief officer from the
room.
There were several Moslems standing
around the doctor’s door. He brushed
past them and entered. The berth had not
been slept in. On the table was an empty
whisky bottle and a tumbler ; lying open
beside them was a medical encycloptedia.
There was a heavy dent in the paper
where a pencil had been pressed against
the margin, opposite a word* in large
type.
The captain leaned over.
“Leprosy!”
He picked up the note and tore it open.
“True to the light / have, I swim to
Mecca.”
Drug Addict.
I found her waking from a heavy sleep,
Looking so ghastly... feeling very sick.
I said, “My dear, why don’t you cut it out?
I know that you’ve been using drugs again.
You’ll be a hopeless addict very soon.
The game’s not worth the candle. Go and see
That doctor that I told you of last week.
He has a sanitarium in the hills ...
You’ll be your old sweet self inside a year.”
She only smiled and shook her tousled head.
“Do you know where I spent the night last
night?
I spent it in the Land of the Unborn!
“The Land of Unborn Children, Poems, Songs,
Dances and Flowers—all delightful things.
There are babies there, fat, jolly little things.
They bite me with their little toothless gums;
They pinch me with their soft wee fingertips,
And try to scratch me with their little nails,
And tumble down and tumble up again,
Rollicking, frolicking, laughing all the while.
They know me now, they run to meet me now.
And when I’m tired I push them all away,
Like the Old Lady Kingsley wrote about.
“And then I go to see the Unborn Poems
That no one wrote and no one ever will,
And none recites, and no one ever will.
Shakspeare and Shelley and Milton may have
glimpsed
One coiner of that Park of Shining Words,
Or caught one echo of those lovely words,
But surely nothing more. They shine, they
gleam,
Like sunlight on a silver scimitar.
The loveliest words in all the English tongue,
Or any tongue that ever was on earth,
The loveliest cadences that ever fell
From any throat in all the Seven Heavens,
Are not so lovely as those Unborn Poems.
They are light, and color, and scent, and rhythm
of sound,
All in a perfect and delightful whole.
They are not printed there in black and white;
No workman clicks them through a linotype;
They live, as wind and water and roses live.
QUEENSLAND.
“And then the Unborn Dances! Could you see —
Oh, could you share their ecstasy with me,
You would not talk of doctors and of cures!
Why, it is you who need a doctor, dear—
You, living in a world of noise and fret
And crime and evil sights and sounds and
smells!
Name all the dancers who have ever danced
From this La Meri to remotest Greece,
And I shall call them clumsy novices!
Why, wind and leaf, rose-petal and thistledown,
All gather there, to admire and to learn!
“And there is all the Unborn Music, too!
No earthly harp nor fairy violin
Could ever reproduce those heavenly sounds!
Beethoven had his dreams—Tschaikowsky,
too —
And half a dozen half-mad Frenchmen shared
Those dreams; the full reality is mine!
“Some day I think that you shall find me dead,
And they will hold an inquest over me.
‘She was addicted to the use of drugs
For many years. Heart failure in the end,
And no suspicious circumstances known.’
And I shall see the old, stiff coroner,
With horn-rimmed glasses slipping down his
nose,
And the policemen and the witnesses;
And 1 shall hear the words, ‘lnquiry closed.’
And I shall turn away, and laugh, and laugh,
And laugh! (Perhaps you’ll hear the echo
here.)
And I shall roll on the green Unborn Grass,
And all the Unborn Birds will chirp and sing,
And all the Unborn Babes will tumble down
And tumble up again, and laugh with me.
And all the Unborn Flowers will bloom for me,
And all the Unborn Dances be danced for me,
And all the Unborn Music played for me,
And all the Unborn Poems shall live for me,
And I shall never have to crawl again
Through the small tunnel, low and foul and dark.
Through which I now must crawl, when I would
spend
A night with them in the Land of the Unborn.”
LYDIA M. D. O'NELL.


m
L
s/k
%
■w
m
BA u e
“It's a Gillette
-I’ll keep it for myself!”
Can you blame him? After all, what man would care to
go through life with a beard like this? Giving away
thousands upon thousands of Gillette Razors each year, yet
never one for himself. And, for that matter, what man
"k
without a beard wouldn’t
whoop for joy if someone
presented him with one of the
latest Gillette Shaving
Outfits.
No. 88 Set, containing new im-
proved razor—the guard and handle
are now combined in one piece
complete in velvet-lined nickel-
plated case with three of the new
Blue Gillette electrically tempered
blades in a specially de- *J A/
signed hinged holder - *
Other Sets from 1/9 to 45/-.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
Of the Eventfulness of Life:—
THE ACCIDENT
BY MARGARET TRIST.
IT happened suddenly. Mrs. Martin
was standing on the street corner
waiting to cross the road. She saw
the bicycle coming along the roadway,
wondered disinterestedly why boys tried
to carry so many parcels on pushbikes,
then went on speculating as to whether it
hadn’t been extravagant of her to buy
that house-frock ready-made, when she
could have run it up herself for half the
cost. The next moment she was sprawled
on the footpath among the parcels she
had accumulated in her afternoon’s shop-
ping and the brown-paper-covered pack-
ages from the bike.
It was all very surprising. Despite the
numbness in her leg she felt interested
in the gathering crowd, and tried to cal-
culate in her dazed mind how long ago
it was since a crowd had gathered to see
her. Couldn’t have been since she was
married twenty-three years ago, she
thought, as she groped for the tomatoes
to see if they were squashed. It would
be a pity if they were, after she’d paid
tenpence a pound for them. Of course
you shouldn’t buy tomatoes when they
were that price, but somehow they had
looked so nice, and if there was any-
thing she did like it was a good, firm
tomato.
“Can’t see no blood,” said a voice.
Mrs. Martin became aware of the
owner of the voice, a none-too-clean
youth with a tiny feather in the band
of his pale-grey hat. Standing beside
him, silent, white-faced and anxious, was
the boy who had ridden the bike. He
was evidently undamaged. Mrs. Martin
smiled at him. Then she realised that
everyone was staring at her Curiously,
pushing forward to look at her and sur-
mising in loud tones her possible injuries.
It made her indignant.
She stopped smiling to say “Go away
everyone, please!”
No one took any notice, but continued
staring at her and discussing how it had
happened. “Quick as a flash,” one
woman said, and “Suddent-like,” said an-
other. Mrs. Martin watched them, won-
dering just what she ought to do.
It was then that the newsboy came to
her aid. Mrs. Martin saw him coming
through the crowd, parting it as he
advanced with long, swinging strides.
There was something very nice about his
plain sun-browned face and the way you
could see the muscles of his lean body
moving under his thin silk shirt.
“Get a copper,” he ordered the youth
in the grey hat; then he knelt beside
Mrs. Martin. “Your leg’s swelling a
treat. We’d better call the ambulance,”
he said.
“Oh!” gasped Mrs. Martin. “Am I as
bad as that?”
“Well, you never know what’s hap-
pened,” he answered. “Maybe it’s a
fracture, and maybe it’s not.”
“There’s no blood,” ventured a woman.
The boy who owned the bike was still
standing by. “Here, you,” ordered the
newsboy, “get your things and hop it.
Unless,” he turned to Mrs. Martin and
gave a broad wink, which was totally
lost on her, “you want to run him in.”
Again Mrs. Martin gasped. “Oh, no! ”
she said.
The boy collected his things and went
just as the youth in the grey hat came
back and reported that there wasn’t a
copper in sight. He hadn’t looked very
far in case he missed something.
“Will someone ring for the ambu-
lance?” asked the newsboy, addressing
the crowd in general.
“Oh, don’t bother,” put in Mrs.
Martin ; “I’m not bad enough for that.
Besides”
The newsboy patted her shoulder.
“Don’t worry, it’s free.”
THERE didn’t seem anything else for
Mrs. Martin to say. Besides, some-
one was already ringing up in a near-by
shop.
The newsboy picked up Mrs. Martin’s
parcels and gave them to a woman to
hold, while he assisted her to her feet
and helped her to his news stand, where
he sat her carefully on a bundle of
papers. Then he loaned her a little
mirror so that she could fix her hat.
The ambulance came with a blare of
sirens that was rather fascinating. It
filled Mrs. Martin with a vague feeling
of excitement such as she hadn’t known
for a long time.
The ambulance men were very nice.
They said they thought her leg was just
badly bruised, but she’d better come
along to the hospital and have it dressed,
as it was always better to be on the safe
side. The newsboy repeated that it was
better to be on the safe side, and a
woman said intelligently, “Oh, yes, always
be on the safe side.”
With infinite care Mrs. Martin was
assisted into the ambulance. She’d never
been in an ambulance before and found
it very strange and thrilling. She shook
hands with the newsboy and thanked
him with tears streaming down her face.
Then she was whirled away with the
tears still pouring down her cheeks and
feeling for the first time the soreness in
her leg.
They were kind at the hospital, and
very gentle with the dressing.
“Now,” said the nurse when it was
finished, “we’ll get you a taxi.”
Mrs. Martin looked worried. She
didn’t have much money, and it was
expensive because she had to cross the
bridge and there was the toll on top of
the fare.
The nurse saw her look. “If you
haven’t enough money, perhaps someone
at home could pay when you get there,”
she suggested.
“Oh, of course,” answered Mrs.
Martin, and sighed with relief. Taxis
were expensive; still, why shouldn’t she
have one to-night? It wasn’t often you
had an accident.
I EANING back in the taxi Mrs.
Martin had a feeling of luxury. She
hadn’t been in a taxi before, and she de-
cided that now and again in the future
she’d take one for a change. It gave you
a different outlook on life somehow, and
how silly it was to wait around for a
bus or a tram when you were tired. At
her age you liked a little ease.
Alf wouldn’t mind, surely. If she had
been badly hurt to-night it would have
been far more expensive. Say it had been
a car out of control and not a bicycle?
Why, she could have been killed! Poor
Alf, how lonely he would have felt with-
out her! And the children, how would
they have got on? The boys were good
boys, but a bit dependent, and then there
was Elise, who hadn’t left school yet.
No, it was a jolly good thing she hadn’t
been killed. They couldn’t possibly do
without her, the dears. Mrs. Martin
beamed, and then became anxious, won-
dering if they were worrying about her.
It was nearly seven o’clock and they'd
all be home now. For the first time in
years she hadn’t been there with their
dinner waiting.
She was glad when the taxi came to
a standstill in front of her own house.
How nice it looked, and cosy and
friendly. The darkness hid the fact that
it needed painting and that the front steps
needed replacing; still, it was their
very own, and that made up for a lot of
defects. The last instalment had been
paid in June. Things had been ever so
much easier since the boys began to work.
The front door opened. How forlorn
Alf looked standing with his glasses in
his hand, a dark, stooped figure against
the light from inside. She hadn’t noticed
before how stooped he was.
“It’s me here, Alf,” she called as the
taxi-driver helped her from the car. “I
had a bit of a spill in town, but I’m all
right.”
“It’s your mother come home,” Alf
spoke back into the house, then came
down the steps towards her. Elise and
the three boys came after him.
“Could someone pay the taxi-man?”
asked Mrs. Martin tremulously.
The boys managed between them, and
the taxi-driver was thanked for his
trouble and sent away. Then they all
crowded round her and helped her into
the house. She was tired now and a
little inclined to tremble, while she
clutched her parcels nervously to her.
Alan took them from her, and Elise and
Alf settled her in the big leather chair in
the dining-room,
11 DICYCLES,” said Alf, after she had
told them her story, ‘ ought to be
put off the road. I heard of a chap
once -
They had all heard of “chaps once
to whom terrible things had nearly hap-
pened owing to bicycles ridden reck-
lessly in heavy traffic. And Elise told
them from the kitchen, where she was
preparing a hasty tea, of a girl friend of
hers who had been practically killed by
a bicycle at the age of four.
As Alf said, winding up the discussion,
it was coming to a pretty pass when you
couldn’t even stand on the footpath with-
out one of the darned things charging
into you.
It was quite a hilarious night. Mrs.
Martin was proud of the way Elise pre-
pared tea and the way afterwards the
boys helped her clear away and wash up.
Alan, who had an appointment to keep,
kissed his mother lingeringly, asked if she
was sure she didn’t mind his going and
it there was anything she’d like brought
from the chemist. After he went Mrs.
Martin cried a little and said what a
dear good boy he was, while Alf patted
her head and agreed to the accompani-
ment vigorous nose-blowing.
n j ne o’cioCk 0 ’ c i 0C k s he W ent to bed happy
&nd tired> filled with thoughts of the
eventfulness of life. There it was flow-
jn g a ] on g humdrum and monotonous,
and 0 f a suc jden a carelessly-ridden
hike alters it altogether, making it rosier,
fuller and sxl ff use d with a new meaning,
A LF woke her in the morning with a
t~\ sharp tap on her shoulder. He’d
done that every morning for nearly
twenty years,
“Six o’clock,” he said; “time to get
up.”
And as she had done for nearly twenty
years she got up and went to the kitchen.
The oatmeal that Elise had soaked the
previous night was waiting to have the
gas lit under it. Aftei all, thought Mis.
Martin as she struck the match, being
knocked down by a bike didn’t alter the
course of life much at all. Now if it
had been a car


CHRISTMAS
O;
19 3 6
The Best Christmas
Gift is a
Swan Pen
and a Fyne-Poynt Pencil
i
-in
vA
tizV.
★ C WANS give greater pleasure and
longer-lasting satisfaction than
any other gift. They are guaranteed for a
lifetime, and nibs can be changed after
presentation to suit any style of writing.
And this year give also a Fyne-Poynt
Pencil. Choose for yourself at any
Stationers or Jewellers.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Prim-
rose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
PRICES— The new VISOFIL Swan,
with clip and mount of rolled
gold, 32/6. Ladies’ Size, without
clip, 2716. LEVERLESS Swans from
21/-. Other Swans from 15/-.
Blackbirds from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt
Pencils from 7/6. All available in
black or colours. Made throughout
in England.
It's the present that p&eases most!
v ..
If % /
A pi
CAREER j»v
roR P®
you n
P&STKAUax
Wsn*LiJ
«<3»S*
/RAHWAY
J SQUARE
•SYDiItY >
" >■■ .
WRITE EOR PARTICULARS NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.M.G.: Verse of purely personal interest,
Prefer it with a wider appeal... .G.L.K.: Not
wanting the moon A.R.8.: No bid for a
sonnet in which “cannon” tries to rhyme with
"sudden” and “form” with “dawn”... .J.P.;
Found guilty of committing an astounding
poem E.A.W.: Pleasant jingle, but little in
it J.R.: Idea 0.K.; treatment not so hot.
A.T.R.: “Pillars of the trees,” “sunset
gleam,” “furrowed by the breeze, honey-
laden bees,” “land of dream” and another
dozen cliches knock it dead. Think up phrases
of your 0wn....E.8.: Something in every one
of them, but not enough to carry any of them
as a whole A.W.: You’ll need to tunc your
rhyming ear to do any good in light verse
J.J.: Formless verse is usually the product of
those who can’t grasp the details of verse
structure... .M.8.H.: Some study along those
lines would do you no harm, either... .C.P.:
Nicely done; just a bit slight. Try another
market, and try this one again with something
with more body in it... .Plantagenct: Can’t
recall the others—we inspect thousands every
week—but latest one fails only from lack of
general interest... .A.L.H.: No space for what
your "heart seemed to answer in accents sweet.”
. ...R.K.: Seems a good method of writing
verse if you can get someone to publish it at
line rates... .V.E.N.: Nicely done, but that’s
about a 11... .C.P.M.: Pretty heavy going....
J.R.: Thousands should welcome the glad
tidings:
a little pinch of phosphate
On that tough old steak
Means for us more tennis
And cuts out tummy ache.
H.M.F.; An unreal batch of yarns
S.W.: “The Outsider” finished as such....
M.T.: Admire your sentiment, but not your
technique... .D.T.F.: Poor characterisation and
a footling ending E.M.K.: You attempt too
big a time span in the cadging yarn....
J.W.H.: The crop of incredible happenings
at the end was too much for us H.C.: Un-
inspired telling of an uninspiring incident
P.W.R.: Embalming-chamber horror. No!
C.K.: Good atmosphere, but plot thin
A.G.C.: Sighted the finish a mile away....
E.M.G.: Rather pointless, for all your hard
labor D.P.: Both still ragged and uneven....
M. : Tamely t01d... .J.W.0.K.: Just another
carelessly-written yarn of bloodletting on the
high seas J.H.L.: Old Tom’s ill-treatment
of the goannas hardly makes a story....
W.C.G.: Too slight.... J.R.: Du 11... .C.SJ.:
Muddled from beginning to end... .Z.V.W.:
It won’t buy you any ducks for Christmas....
J. 8.: Four yawns to a page... .G.C.F.: Never
gripped our attention for a moment.. . .J.M.:
Left at the barrier R.A.C.: It, too, will have
a homecoming 0.5.: How old are you'.
C.J.R.: A false ending J.P.: Produced
neither tears nor cash... .E.E.S.: No nest here
for the crows E.G.C.: Poor finish
N. Off our beat F.8.R.: “The Bush-
man’s Lament” made no appeal. And the story
of the two pugnacious ’roos who fought a
battle to the death for the love of a female of
the species likewise left us c01d... .M.L.:
Even for a 16-year-old it lacks impressiveness.
. ...C.M.C.: Nicely rhymed, but we don’t
quite get the hang of it... .J.8.D.: Jingle about
“Wotan’s Cup” sadly belated as well as un-
distinguished... .T.McC.: You might try them
on the Conservatorium of Music M.C.F.:
Back it goes J.W.: All of them very
amateurish A.W.S.: It might cause inter-
national complications... .L.D.C.: “Horizontal
Sam” a deal too long to fit into these columns.
... .J.K.:
Awake! Arise! The wings of dawn
Are beating at the gates cxf day.
A very slight variant on a terribly hackneyed
opening C.D.: Found “Drought” bone-
dry M.L.: A fair-to-middling sonnet, but
not for us 8.L.: “Ode to a Cat” received
and noted, along with the addendum “All rights
reserved by author.” You may trust us not to
infringe on them.... J.T.W.; A shade too sen-
timental F.F.W.: It wasn’t because your
letters were insufficiently stamped that the items
missed... .G.C.: Poem on “India” received and
read—-160 stodgy lines. Have a heart!
P.B.: If you must write racing verse, steer
clear of heroic measures... .T.A.: You call it
a lyric; we shouldn’t... .S.A.: Another effusion
on the centenary of South Australia gone
basketwards....W.G.; “Would you kindly
comment on this little effort?” A gloomy shake
of the head is all we can offer G.L.K.:
Nightmarish... .P.J.1.: Laborious - sounding
verse....J.R.W.: Dozens of paragraphs are on
the borderline every week. They are not turned
down because they are defective; simply be-
cause, in the sub.’s judgment, there are others
a little better....R.J.F.: It falls short of pub-
lication standard, but you put some swing in
your rhymes... .A.J.G.: Our honest opinion is
that you’re wasting your time....J.E.8.: Unin-
telligible R.H.F.: Absolutely unsuitable.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.W.: You have a lot to learn about
anatomy... .R. 8.: You need a less heavy line
and more sense of humor... .C.A.: Wash draw-
ings too faint for effective reproduction
L. : The jest dates back to the ’nineties....
M. :No use for your frail fairy-tale illus-
trations... .L.H.: That gag arrives annually a
month or so before Christmas... .F.J.: You
have a sense of caricature; subjects are not
sufficiently in the public eye... .A.8.L.: A
search party is out looking for the point ot
the joke W.S.: A wooden lot of figures and
a gag that age has withered N-T. : Any
seven-year-old nipper could do as we 11... .P.b.:
Not worth the price of the postage.. . .A.H.W.:
Drought cartoon evoked no admiration....
S.C.: You have gone about it carefully, but
the result is lifeless... .8.L.: Your fearsome-
looking pug took the count in the first round
with the Art Editor H.G.: Note that you
are against liquor bars on railway stations;
also note that you cannot draw 5.8.: It is
a pity that you didn’t check up on the uniform
before sketching the admiral N.J.: Jest is
on our antique list... .R.A.W.: Since one ol
the characters bears a remote resemblance to
Eden and another to Hitler we presume, in the
absence of letterpress, that it has something
to do with the European situation.,. .E.D.:
Haven’t you ever seen a man holding a rifle?
C.P.M.: Cannot make sense out of the
rigmarole you call a joke; drawing misses
badly A.J.8.: You’re weak on perspective.
J.J.M.: You belong to the scratch-as-
scratch-can school.
A MIXED GRILL.
Plant in hundreds of tons is arriving
at the Big Bell (W.A.), now American-
owned —“one of the most remarkable
mines in this yere country, suh!” Some,
of it is Australian.
ij! * * *
“Zedo”: In Queensland one-l'ourth of
all prisoners in gaol at the end of last
year were serving sentences of five years
and over. One-eighth were in for more
than 10 years, including eight habituals,
22 lifers and one doing over 15 years.
* * * *
Adelaide Tivoli saw a whole week
of the State’s centennial play, “Colonel
Light—the Founder.” It got even better
as it went on, and intervals were light-
ened by early views of the city, screened
on the curtain. Max Afford, the author,
had great acclamation on the last night,
when the Repertory Theatre, departing
from its old and firm rule, allowed its
players to take curtain-call and bouquets.
The week’s takings for charity were over
£l3OO.
* * * *
Stevens has promised to balance the
Budget, and a U.A.P. newspaper says it
has been balanced already. It seems
strange that the accounts for four months
of 1936-37 should show a deficiency of
£1,371,100. Compared with four months
of 1935-36 revenue was up £15,900, ex-
penditure £419,500. “S. M. Herald” finds
the position “comfortable.” Stevens
finds it unutterable-
% * * *
“X.T.”: Latest Queensland statistics
show some curious anomalies in produc-
tion. Vast as it is, the State has only
1,335,000 acres under cultivation and
822,000 acres under sown grasses. There
are 732,000 dairy cows in milk, and the
value of their production averages only
about £8 10s. per head p.a. Sugarcane,
which occupies only a little over 200,000
acres of land, or less than one-sixth of
the State’s cultivated area, is the biggest
farming industry in point of returns. Its
production last year was valued at
£7,091,000. All other agricultural indus-
tries returned £5,839,000 and dairying
£6,200,000.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: In an interview Perry
suggests that special provision be made
for promising boy tennis-players to give
them a chance of becoming champions.
He bewails the stern necessity which
compels many of these youths to earn
a living by working at the expense of
their tennis. That moan doesn’t apply
here. The moment a youngster shows
tennis form out of the ordinary he is
swept up by some business handling
tennis goods and set to play tennis and
advertise his employers. There is scarcely
a youth or flapper in the tennis eye this
moment who is not in some sort of a
job of this kind. Unfortunately in Eng-
land ridiculous ideas on the subject of
old Brer Amateur Status prevent such
an open go.
When W. S. Gilbert wrote “When a
Merry Maiden Marries” he may have,
been thinking of a bride as radiant as
Mavis Jean Mclntosh, who married Clif-
ford John Cowley, one of the principals
in the G. and S. co., at Sydney. They had
met while playing in “The Du Barry,”
and their engagement was announced
during the Gilsullivan season in Mel-
bourne. The Firm’s Harald Bowden
gave the bride away, and Mrs. Alfred
Frith was her attendant. In the evening
the ’groom played the Judge in “Trial by
Jury” and Samuel in “The Pirates of
Penzance.” His bride watched him from
a box.
H* *i*
Mrs. Henrietta Walker’s annual show
of hooked work, reed, rush and bark
baskets has interested Melbourne. For
the baskets all the ingredients, except a
little raffia from Madagascar and some
Maoriland flax, are gathered at or near
Mrs. Walker’s home in the Ringwood
(Vic.) district. Men, women and chil-
dren, all in needy circumstances or
incapacitated in some way, take part
in this industry, cutting and gathering
bark and reeds or weaving the fin-
ished article. The bookwork rugs are
done in either rags or fleece. Mrs.
Walker is a constant traveller in the cause
of the C.W.A., and has taught hundreds
of members the secrets of producing four
or five handsome rugs from the back of
one sheep.


44?
ICK
ESS
£5
!!
Moth
e
s
s
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
-nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (N.S.W.) wants position in
library.—3790.
Station manager and bookkeeper, married,
Queensland and N. S. Wales exp., seeks posi-
tion. —3805.
_ Double-certificated nurse wanted at once.
(Apply Matron, Allendale Hospital, Sarina, Q.)
Man, Vic., wants position as houseman or
similar work. Willing to take anything offer-
ing.—3812.
Fully-qualified ambulance attendant (Q.) seeks
employment. Prepared to do any additional
work. —3826.
To buy Nos. 1 and 2 of first volume of
“Esquire.”—3759.
To buy Bowling Notes, by “Boomerang.”—
3616.
Information Sought.
(1) Have sharks ever been seen or known to
be in the Lane Cove River (Sydney) as far up
as Fuller's Bridge ? (2) Has anyone ever been
taken or bitten by a shark in this region ? —
3536.
(1) Cannot say with certainty that sharks have
been seen at Fuller’s Bridge, but they have
been seen pretty near it. As the water at
the bridge is tidal, there is always a risk of
attack there. (2) Cannot trace any record of
either happening.
* * * *
Can you give me the name of a snake I saw
in N. S. Wales about 2ft. bin. long, dark color
(probably black), with white rings {in. wide
circling the body from head to tail? When
approached it raised its body, leaving head and
tail on the ground, as though to strike? —3676.
Specimen observed was the ringed snake or
bandy-bandy (Purina annulata). It is fairly
widely distributed in N. S. Wales, and plenti-
ful on the coast. Though of the venomous
class, it is not regarded as deadly or even
dangerous. It is mainly nocturnal in habits,
and feeds on insects, small lizards and small
snakes.
* * * *
How can I identify the spotted diamond-bird,
and what are its habits ? —3759.
It is small and active, colored black and
buff, patched with red and yellow, and with
little white spots. Its loud, monotonous call,
resembling “Sleep, baby,” is commonly heard
in southern Australia. It lives on insects.
Tunnelling into a bank, it builds a domed nest
of grass or bark strips and lays four or five
white eggs.
* * * *
(1) 1 find that the price of imported books
and music in Sydney is the equivalent of the
English retail price, plus 50 p.c. How is this
amount made up? (2) What customs, primage,
etc., would I have to pay if l ordered direct
from the publisher ?— 3129.
(1) It is hardly correct to say that Sydney
retail prices are 50 p.c. above corresponding
English prices; for ordinary literature they are
often little above English prices, and imported
books are often sold at or even below the
English retail figure. Importing costs include
25 p.c. exchange, 10 p.c. freight and insurance
(which, as these amounts are payable in sterling,
is plus exchange), local landing charges and inci-
dentals, about 5 p.c. or 6 p.c. A dealer order-
ing from overseas takes a greater risk, pro-
portionately, than does an English buyer, who
can restock immediately according to demand.
(2) It is unlikely that you would be able to
purchase direct; publishers prefer to deal
through booksellers. With certain educational
works, on which the English retail price is
lower, it might possibly be to your advantage to
order direct. There is no customs duty or
primage on such goods.
* * * *
Meaning of the following aeronautical terms:
(1) Zoom, (2) slipstream and (3) pancake? —•
3782.
(1) To climb at a sharper angle than can be
maintained in steady flight; also used as a
noun to denote sudden increase in the upward
slope of the flight path. (2) The stream of air
drawn astern by the propeller. (3) To level
off an aeroplane at a greater altitude than
normal in landing, thus causing it to stall
and to descend on a steeply-inclined path.
«i»
Why is a publican sometimes termed Boni-
face and a barmaid Hebe ? —3760.
Will Boniface in Farquhar’s comedy “The
Beaux Stratagem” (1707) was an innkeeper.
Hebe, in Greek mythology, was cupbearer to
the immortals before Ganymede superseded her.
... * *
I have a promissory nofe which was payable
on July 1, 1934; it was presented on the due
dale and returned unpaid. How long is it good
for ? —3636.
Six years from date of dishonor. After the
lapse of that time recovery is barred by the
Statute of Limitations.
* * * *
I use a steam boiler for soil-sterilising in
N. S. Wales. Is it compulsory to have it in-
spected? —3421.
No; but it is suggested that in the interests
of safety a periodical examination should be
made by an accredited inspector.
h= * * *
What is meant by the term ‘‘freeman of the
City of London”? What privileges does that
carry, and does the office entail the payment
of dues? —3556.
A member of any of the 76 city companies
or guilds of London is a freeman of the city,
membership being acquired by inheritance, servi-
tude (apprenticeship) or marriage; honorary
membership is, however, often granted to
persons of distinction resident or visiting. The
privileges, which of old were considerable, were
regulated by Acts of 1835 and 1882, and now
consist merely of the right to wear the livery
of the particular guild of which the freeman is
a member, to vote at elections of the Lord
Mayor, sheriffs, chamberlain and certain other
corporation officers, as well as of members of
Parliament for the city. Membership involves
payment of fairly heavy fees.
* * * *
What is meant by the initiative, referendum
and recall ? —3774.
Devices intended to limit and control the
powers of representative assemblies. The initia-
tive permits a certain percentage of voters in
an electorate (the proportion defined by law) to
compel the Legislature to consider proposals
brought forward by the group. The referendum
is a submission of legislative proposals to a
poll of the whole of an electorate; provision
is made for it in the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion (in regard to constitutional matters), in the
laws of many American States, and in the
federal laws of Switzerland. The recall is the
right of the majority of electors in an electorate
to depose by petition or referendum at any
time a member who has lost their confidence,
or of the electors of a country to put a
Government out of office by similar means.
(1) Particulars of the Schomburg wreck ? (2)
Facts of the disembarkation ? Was one man
shot by the mate during an attempt to rush the
boats? (3) Had it been stated that the trip
would be made in 70 days “or not at all” ?
3488.
(1) The Schomburg, a wooden clipper ship of
2600 tons, sailed for Melbourne on her maiden
voyage October 6, 1855; master, James Nicol
Forbes. On December 26 she stranded on a
sandbank 35 miles west of Cape Otway, Vic-
toria, in what was practically a calm, but with
a strong current. Captain Forbes was placed
on trial in Melbourne for negligence. He
was acquitted. (2) Without disorder the 200
passengers, their luggage and valuable portions
of the cargo were taken aboard the steamer
Keera. The crew went ashore in the ship’s
boats without loss of life or any such an
incident as mentioned occurring. (3) At a
banquet at Liverpool before sailing, Captain
Forbes is said to have declared that “he would
be in Melbourne or a place generally said to
be hotter” in 50 days; actually it was 81 days,
considerably longer than the usual clipper ship
run of the period, from leaving the Mersey
to striking the bank.
* * * *
Is there a King Richard of England buried
at Lucca? —3769.
No. The first Richard, Cceur-de-Lion, is
buried in the church of Fontevrault, France;
Richard 11., who died in prison, was buried
without state in King’s Langley, but later re-
interred in Westminster Abbey; Richard 111.,
who fell in battle with the first Henry Tudor
at Bosworth, was buried in the church of Grey-
friars, Leicester.
* * * *
Meaning of native word “koree” ? —3777.
Koree, the aboriginal name for that portion
of the foreshore of Sydney Harbor now known
as Clifton Gardens, does not appear in that
exact form in any list of native words. Some
words of a similar sound are kore, “man”;
kooree, “ear”; and koorie, “mussel shell”; this
last, given in another list as coori, meaning
“flowers” or “a shell,” is, considering the
locality, the most probable.
* * * *
Particulars concerning Caruso, including his
marriage and the cause of his death? —3702.
Born Naples, February 25, 1873, Enrico
Caruso’s first success was in his native town
in 1898. Later he appeared at most European
capitals. In 1903 he sang at the Metropolitan
Opera House, New York, where he continued
for many years as principal tenor. In 1918 he
married Dorothy, daughter of Park Benjamin,
patent attorney, of New York, and there was
one daughter. He died at Naples, August 2,
1921, of pleurisy.
* * * *
Names of books dealing with mechanics as
applied to building construction; also book on
architectural perspective ? —3743.
Handbook of Building Construction (two
vols.), Hool and Johnson (655.); Australian
Building Practice, James Nangle (17s. 6d.);
Building Construction for Beginners, J. W.
Riley (95.); Architectural Perspective, Middle-
ton (7s. 6d.); all obtainable from Dymock’s,
426 George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
How to clean a “turkey stone” ? —3647.
Try a little turpentine, wiping off as soon as
possible, or wet, rub with soap and apply more
water to produce a lather. Always wipe with
a clean rag after using and replace cover im-
mediately. Unless the right oil, such as neats-
foot or sperm, is used the stone will gum up
and harden.
* * * *
(1) Height of Hume dam? (2) Length of
concrete part? (3) Length of earthen section?
(4) Height of overflow ? (5) Number of acres
reclaimed? (6) Size, as compared with world’s
largest dams? —3800.
(1) 150 ft. (2) 1042 ft. (3) 4238 ft., giving a
total length of 5280 ft. (4) 106 ft. (5) Area
covered by the water is 33,000 acres. (6)
Storage capacity is 1£ million acre feet. The
largest dam in the Southern Hemisphere, it is
small compared with the Hoover dam (U.S.A.)
and other dams in N. America and elsewhere,
where heights range up to 700 ft. and capacities
up to 18 million acre feet.
* * * *
What is the nature of the noise caused by
an aeroplane in motion ? —3705.
About a third is attributable to engine clatter,
a third to the airscrew and the rest to exhausts
and the “flutter” caused by air-speed eddies.
* * =i> *
At what Government school in Sydney can a
girl receive instruction in dressmaking? —372s.
Department of Women’s Handicrafts, East
Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst. The
full-day course covers four years and includes
dressmaking, dresscutting, designing and allied
subjects such as millinery, white work and
ladies’ tailoring. Attendance of three and a
half days per week is required, and the re-
mainder of the student’s time is occupied in
preparation work. Syllabus is obtainable from
the college.
* * * *
Names and addresses of some Sydney reper-
tory societies ? —3 808.
Bryant’s Playhouse, Forbes-street, Darling-
hurst; Independent Theatre, 112 King-street;
New Theatre League, 36 Pitt-street; Sydney
Drama Society, Scot Chambers, Hosking-place;
Sydney Players’ Club, 2 Bond-street; Thespian
Dramatic Productions, 44 Margaret-street; and
W.E.A. Drama Club, W.E.A. Clubrooms, 449 a
Pitt-street.
* * * *
What quantity of power alcohol is produced
annually by (1) Great Britain, (2) France, (3)
Italy, (4) the U.S.A. ?— 3745.
In 1934 (the latest year for which details are
available) the production was as follows: (1)
433,000 gallons. (2) 54,400,000 gallons. (3)
1,402,000 gallons. (4) Negligible, but recently
a distillery or two have come into operation.
* * * *
Rule for determining the number of threads
per inch for screw-cutting lathe? —3660.
Multiply the number of teeth on back wheel
of adjusting plate (B) by the number of teeth on
wheel on leadscrew (L) and multiply the pro-
duct by four. Divide this figure by the product
of the number of teeth on wheel on headstock
(H) and the number of teeth on the front
wheel on adjusting plate (F). For example,
let B equal 80, L equal 100, H equal 40 and
F equal 50 ; then 80 X 100 X 4 equals 32,000,
which, divided by 40 X 50 (2000), gives 16
threads per inch. When identical wheels are
used on adjusting plate (“intermediate” wheels)
the formula becomes four times the ratio of the
teeth of wheel on leadscrew (L) divided by
teeth on headstock. To cut 13 threads per
inch, use the 65 wheel in either the B or L
position, as this is the only wheel whose number
of teeth is a multiple of 13.
* * # *
How to make a hypo-eliminator and method
of use? —3804.
Wash the negative for one minute under the
tap, and transfer to a shallow dish containing
water with enough potassium permanganate in
it to turn it pink. Remove the negative as
soon as the color goes (which will be in a
second or two if hypo is present), and keep
on treating in very weak permanganate baths
until the color is not discharged. The water
itself will destroy the permanganate color, but
not quickly as hypo does. This is a cheap and
satisfactory process which allows of a negative
being ready for drying within three minutes
of fixation. Another formula is: Ammonium
persulphate sgr., carbonate of soda 10gr., water
2oz.
* * * *
Some details about the blood complaint called
lymphatic leukcemia ? —3786.
The disease appears. to result from over-
activity and increased cell-production in the
organs concerned in blood-production: the
bone-marrow, the spleen, the lymph glands. The
exciting cause is unknown. Deep X-ray therapy
has benefited many patients.
* * * *
(1) What causes leukoplakia, a skin disease
usually affecting the lips ? (2) Is there a remedy
for it? —3Bol.
(1) Smoking is an important factor, and ex-
plains the predominance in males. The use of
spices, condiments and alcohol, as well as irri-
tation by decayed teeth and badly-fitting dental
plates, may be contributing causes. The disease
is often one expression of a general scaliness
and thickening of the skin, and there is a
gradual transformation into cutaneous cancer
in 20 p.c. df cases. (2) The irritative factors
outlined must be avoided or removed. The
use of X-rays has a first place in treatment.
There is no “common remedy,” and medical
advice is necessary.
* * * *
(1) What is catarrh of the stomach ? (2)
Cause and cure ? (3) Is dieting of value ? (4)
Is slippery elm bark a remedy? —37o6.
(1) The overproduction of mucus from cer-
tain glands in the wall of the stomach. (2)
It is usually part of a simple gastritis, but may
occur in practically all forms of stomach dis-
ease. Treatment must be directed to the under-
lying cause. (3) Diet may include milk diluted
with limewater, butter, cream, milk soups, light
puddings, arrowroot, toast, eggs, minced meat,
brains, chicken, fish, spinach, mashed potato,
macaroni, stewed fruits. Avoid alcohol, spices
and rich sauces. (4) No.
* * * *
Is “koranui” a Maori word, and what is its
meaning ? —3492.
Kore-nui, meaning Great Void (in Maori
mythology, a stage in the evolution of primal
power), is the only word closely resembling the
one given to be found in Maori dictionaries.
Your word, however, may be a corruption of
koronae, the meaning of which is variously
given as “to lie broadside on”; “to drink out
of the hand”; the circle of grass or fern-
leaves placed round a native cooking hole, pre-
sumably to receive the food if it should roll
off; and stile.
Brief Answers.
E.J.P.: Francis Russell Nixon died on
April 7, 1879, at his home, Lake Maggiore,
Italy. Among his many published works are
Transportation; a Communication to Earl
Grey (1858), The Cruise of the Beacon (1857)
and Twelve Views in Adelaide (1845)
F.F.: (1) Mix together by weight 40 parts
white shellac, 20 parts sandarac and 940 parts
spirit of wine or methylated spirit. You can
buy the fixative ready-mixed as cheaply as you
can make it. (2) Nothing can be done to
restore the rubber, which has followed its usual
course and perished with wear and use. As
the fabric is good you could give the garments
a dressing of clear oilskin preparation, but
this would turn them into a kind of oilskin
outfit, more useful than handsome F. 8.:
Sow the seed thinly in a well-prepared bed,
cover with about iin. of leaf mould and soil
and pat down with the back of a spade.
Water before and after sowing. The “after”
watering should be with boiling water, and
bags should be thrown over the bed to keep
in the steam until the ground has cooled off.
Keep the soil always damp. Signs of germina-
tion should appear within three weeks. The
seeds can be sown in spring and summer....
W.W.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Department, Melbourne H.W.H.: August 1,
1924: Males, £4 25.; females, £2 Is. 6d. August
24, 1925: Males, £4 45.; females, £2 2s. 6d
M.E.S.: All good brands of rayon are safe,
no matter what the country of origin S.L.:
“Cockeyed Bob” is the name given to thunder-
squalls which occur frequently on the north-
west coast of Western Australia in summer....
E.A.W.: (1) If your violin has lost its sweet-
ness of to~e and become harsh, it may need
adjustment. It is important that strings of
good quality should be used. Regular playing
is essential. (2) On no account should brandy
or any other spirit be used on the varnish
P.H.S.: Pearls of Papua, by H. C. Brewster
(55.), The Circus Ring, by Mary Grant Bruce
(ss. 3d.), Warrigal (ss. 3d.) and The Treasure
of the Never Never (7s. 6d.), by J. M. Downie,
and Sandy, by I. Shend (4s. 6d.)... .A.C.N.:
Postal notes may be cashed up to six months
1 rom the last day of the month of issue and after
that may be cashed after reference to the G.P.O.
and upon payment of a fee equal to the original
poundage, provided a duplicate note has not
been issued in the meantime D.M.: A
pleasant stimulant, and a useful adjuvant to
digestion and appetite J.W.: If the ground
and subsoil are dry and drainage is satisfactory
no harm will follow F.S.: Wash hair three
times a week with warm water and liquid soap.
Rinse and dry thoroughly, massaging scalp
well. Then rub in this lotion: Salicylic acid
5 parts, castor oil 10 parts, spirits of rosemary
50 parts, methylated spirit 150 parts. Keep
brushes and combs scrupulously clean....
W.M. : Tugrabakh is a N.S.W. abo. place-name
meaning “place of ironbark” P.S.: Manuae,
an atoll in the Cook Islands about midway
between Atiu and Aitutaki, really consists of
two islands. It is leased by a private firm....
C.H.: The Giraffe’s Uncle was written by Les
Robinson and published by Jackson and O’Sulli-
van, Sydney... .H.C.: “Sally” was written by
Guy Bolton, music by Jerome D. Kern; “Rose
Marie” by Otto Ffarbach and Oscar Hammer-
stein, music by Rudolph Friml and Herbert
Stothart; “The Belle of New York” by Hugh
Morton, music by Gustav Kerker R.P.L.:
Carl Linger, born Berlin, 1810, arrived in South
Aust., 1849. He composed two operas, several
symphonies and cantatas, conducted a Handel
Festival at Adelaide, 1859, was leader of
Adelaide Choral Society and an originator of
the Liedertafel there, and set Caroline Carle-
ton’s “Song of Australia” to music. Died 1862.
....H.C.: Write Director-General of Public
Health, Canberra, F.C.T E.P.N.: (1) Yes, it
being the place where the debt was contracted.
The Commonwealth Service and Execution of
Process Act makes provision for the service of
process in any part of the Commonwealth irre-
spective of the particular State in which it was
initiated. (2) and (3) Should think so, but you
would need professional assistance R.C.T.:
Write Principal, Sydney Technical College,
Sydney... .G.F.G.: (1) Address posted. (2)
Reliable new books are Tuberculosis, by Holmes
(11s.), and Rules for Recovery from Tuber-
culosis, by Brown (10s. 6d.). Both from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney L.W.: (1) Waiters
in the Parliamentary refreshment rooms, Can-
berra, are paid £4 ss. 6d. per week, in accord-
ance with the award in the F.C.T. (2) Federal
Parliament is in session for approximately 26
weeks in the year. (3) Persons employed in
the Commonwealth Public Service are forbidden
to act as correspondents for newspapers
C.T.: Those symptoms accompany digestive dis-
orders of all sorts, trivial or serious. Best plan
is to consult a physician, who will decide
whether an X-ray examination of the digestive
tract is necessary to exclude the possibility of
gastric ulceration. It is impossible to prescribe
treatment without examination R.J.: Write
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Sydney, for leaflet,
“Manufacture of Dairy Butter” G.N.E.: (1)
The shortest distance between the Inner South
Head and Inner North Head of Sydney Harbor
is 1602 yards (measured between low water
marks). (2) The greatest depth of that line is
83ft. at 1.w.0.5.t. On the line between Inner
South Head and Outer North Head, the greatest
depth of water is 95ft. 1.w.0.5.t. (2) Several
vessels can come through abreast W.M.L.:
(1) First ascertain from the curator the evi-
dence he would be prepared to accept in proof
of your claim. Baptismal dates might be
obtained from parish church records and proofs
of death from the registrars in Australian
States, assuming all the cousins left Ireland and
came to live in the Commonwealth. (2) and
(3) Unless you can establish a very clear case,
the costs of investigation and legal costs would
probably be heavy. Cannot recommend any
particular firm of investigators... .J.K.: On
your own admission you are using the water,
and the Irrigation Board is probably within its
rights in making the charge (Many others
mailed.)


1
I
• •// • m/ji ->
rr //- //M
- • v//// ' \///?
1
m.
y//
I
■/
I
- --a-
S2SZZ
ill!!!l!!lllll!lll!llll!l!IHill!irin
Altvays changing, always new. That’s why
travel in America never loses interest.
Yesterday San Francisco’s Golden Gate was
a mile-wide strait between two shores;today
in one gigantic gesture, the shores are joined.
Sharp peaks once liftingfrom Nevada’s desert
floor now hide beneath waters of Mead Lake
-—creation of colossal Boulder Dam. Carlsbad
Caverns, Nature’s fantastic subcellars, un-
known for ages are now explored with ease.
City skylines are redesigned almost day today
It’s all so easy to see, with great railways mak-
ing time and distance obsolete. Only 75 hours
separate the coasts. Weather is unimportant
because trains are air-conditioned —which
means they make their own weather. The im-
portant things are comfort —exemplified by
modern Pullman cars for slumbrous nights,
smart club cars for daytime sociability, diners
for delicious, well-served meals—and deft
personal attentions provided by valet, maid,
barber, and others of a courteous, trained
staff; and economy —in low fares.
Equally luxurious and economical,the 18-day
South Sea cruise to California —aboard the
swift gigantic “Mariposa” or “Monterey” of
the Matson-Oceanic fleet, with their romantic
route via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii.
This is the start of the Pacific-and-America
thoroughfare toEngland—the short,thrilling
way to go —devoid of obstacles and strange
languages, replete with comfort and sincere,
efficient service. Plans are unusually flexible,
and you have your choice of routes across
America, of ships across the Atlantic.
“England Across America ”, our illustrated booklet,
amplifies all these interesting points, and many
more. Your request by ’phone, call, or letter ivill
bring it without cost or obligation.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AIV D INFORMATION BUREAU
On floe toafc line
(Incorporated in U.S. A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
From a man on the spot: Johannes-
burg has a golden tower in its Empire
exhibition illustrating the wealth of the
Rand mines. The tower represents three
years’ output of 32,227,5600 z., valued at
£217,530,420 sterling at' the present price
of gold.
* * * *
Claude de Bernales, just appointed, is
Great Boulder’s fourth chairman. The
other three were G. P. Doolette, John
Waddington and Newton Moore. All
men of note; and Boulder Perseverance,
another great old Golden Mile show, has
also had interesting chairmen. The most
remarkable was Frank Gardiner, who
first came to Australia as manager for
Carrie Swain, and who later left the
theatrical for the mining world.
Kenneth Lindsay, one of Britain’s
representatives at the South Australian
centenary celebrations, belongs to the
younger lot of British Ministers. A Civil
Lord of the Admiralty at 39, he is one
of the many presidents of the Oxford
Union Debating Society who have made
their mark in politics. He began his
public career as director of the
Dominions Office voluntary migration
societies. His politics are National
Labor, his constituency Kilmarnock,
whence Australia gets a lot of its whisky.
He plays a solid game of Soccer foot-
ball, at which he represented Oxford.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The wet weather last
season set all the English county clubs
back. Sussex is asking its professionals
to accept a 5 p.c. cut. Other reductions
are in the air, and the end of the year
has brought dismissals of players once
deemed indispensable. Most prominent
of these is Freeman, of Kent, who year
after year has taken more than 200
wickets in first-class matches. Freeman
was twice in Australia —in 1924-25 and
1928-29 with Gilligan and Chapman, but
failed badly, as he did against Australians
in England. He is to get a bonus of
£250, and some League club will sign
him up. Freeman’s newspaper attack on
Farnes’s bowling in a Kent-Essex match
last season is associated with his being
bowed out.
*•* * *
“Cash Amateur”: Reported that
American headmasters are alarmed at
the growth of veiled professionalism in
university football, it being acknow-
ledged that some of the most renowned
foundations in the U.S.A. are winking at
the payment of salaries to undergraduates
for playing. For years leading players
from American high schools have been
offered special inducements in the way
of free education to play with this or
that university. One leading American
weekly lately asserted that likely fresh-
men on joining are sent to courses of
study which will admit of their having
plenty of time for football training in
the afternoons, no matter what courses
they might have preferred to take. What
happens to these players if they go off
their game or their term of residence
expires can be imagined. Most of them
drift into professional teams.
The new Anglican Bishop of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), Rev. A. L. Wylde, hasn’t much
to learn about his diocese, since he was
coadjutor to Bishop Crotty for eight
years, with headquarters at Gilgandra.
He hails from Horsforth, a little York-
shire town near Leeds, which gave Aus-
tralia its first cleric of world renown —
Samuel Marsden. Wylde, educated at
Wakefield Grammar School (Yorks) and
University College, Oxford, came to
N. S. Wales to join the Bush Brother-
hood in 1921, and was for a time its
head. He is a good mixer and knows
his humanity.
* =i= * *
Dr. Wei-ping Chen, the polished Peip-
ing Doctor of Philosophy who has been
Chinese Consul-General in Australia for
years, leaves for fresh fields in a few
weeks. A cheery, good-tempered man
with a Boston education and a Western-
ised outlook, he was a popular lecturer
during his stay in Australia and an
ardent advocate of the development of
a greater Australian trade with China.
* * * *
“Q.M.1.”: The charging of a ship's
steward at Newcastle (N.S.W.) with hav-
ing set fire to his ship reminds me of
my only experience of arson on the
high seas. Early in 1900 the trooper
Maori King was carrying a force of
Queensland M.I. to South Africa. She was
wretchedly equipped, and was crammed
with men and horses. One night the sentry
on the forehatch reported a fire in the
hold in which the horsefeed was stored ;
the baled hay and lucerne were ablaze.
When the fire had been put out, damn-
ing evidence that it had been deliber-
ately caused was supplied by quantities
of cotton-waste soaked in lamp oil,
which had evidently been shoved under
the loose hatch tarpaulin. I can still
raise a shiver over what might have
happened.
* * * *
Six months ago Australian musician
Hubert Clifford made a stir in musical
London by winning the W. W. Cobbelt
(1935) prize in an open competition for
a suite for small orchestra. The adjudi-
cators were Landon Ronald, Hugh Allen
and John McEwen, three leading musical
knights. Clifford’s name was again in
the news when he conducted the first
performance of his work, played by the
Beckenham County School Orchestra,
and when he took the place of Dr. Mal-
colm Sargent (then in Australia) to con-
duct the London Philharmonic Orchestra.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Our M.L. district had just
begun maize-growing, and to encour-
age the industry a well-wisher offered a
prize of two guineas for the best six cobs
exhibited at the local show. There were
dozens of entries; but the whole coun-
tryside was staggered when the prize
went to the local baker’s daughter. The
winning stalks were grown in a spot
that received the warmth from the
baker’s oven and the overflow front the
family washhouse, conditions which pro-
duced stalks of -extraordinary height and
cobs of almost unbelievable size. Asked
if she had many such the damsel re-
plied: “No, only those I showed. There
wasn’t room for any more.”
* * * *
“Tam”: Cyanide was stored in a sago-
thatched shed of a Papuan goldfield 1
was on. A very severe storm tore the
thatch loose and the pelting rain pene-
trated some of the cases. There was a
sharp fall in the direction of a near-hv
creek, and shortly afterwards numbers
of dead fish were floating about. The
inland boys employed on the field boiled
the welcome meal. Those who ate them
only suffered no ill effects, but the few
who topped off their meal with a shell-
cupful of the liquor remaining in the
pot promptly departed this world. Why
were they not all affected?


MODEL 67
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 27in.
Barrel, Elevating Rear Sight. Price 50/-
Carriage Paid.
MODEL 68
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 27in.
Barrel, Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 557-
Carriage Paid.
iww; MB W n u
MODEL 69
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in.
Round Tapered Barrel; Two Maga-
zines, one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle, with
Sporting Rear Sight. Price 95/.
With Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 957-
Carriage Paid.
"WINCHESTER
WORLD STANDARD RIFLES
have special proof steel barrels for the use of
Super-speed Cartridges, and are scientifically
proportioned, drilled and rifled to ensure maxi-
mum accuracy and balance. Full-size Walnut
Stock with Shot Gun type Butt greatly adds to
appearance and ease in handling.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422
Expert Telescopic Sight. Price, £B/10/-.
Carriage Paid.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
"WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
MODEL 62
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-
repeating Rifle, 23in. Round Barrel, for Short, Long
and Long-rifle. Price .. £5/10/-. Carriage paid.
.22-cal. Auto-
matic, 23in. Round Barrel; for
Long-rifle Super-speed Cartridges only.
Price £9/10/-. Carriage paid.
MODEL 63
The “Speed King”
Iver Johnson Single-shot Bolt-
action Rifles, .22 cal. Model X.,
22in. barrel 307-
Model 2X, 24in. barrel 35/-
Carriage Paid.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Jamieson, the trainer, has returned to
the business with a good team. Lynch
Law, a big Limond colt —the dam, Dras-
tic, is an Absurd mare —was produced
in fine shape for the colts and geldings’
division of the Juvenile. Handicap at
Moorefield, and was backed from 5 to
2 to evens. He behaved like an old-
stager, jumped out and won by half a
length from Mangoola and Sedition.
Bartle eased up the favorite in the. last
furlong; he explained to the stewards
that he did not want to give a colt hav-
ing his first race in public too hard a
task. Lynch Law, he added, had not'
been farther than half a mile in track
trials.
In the fillies’ division, little. Handsome
(6 to 1) won her third race for Mrs.
T. C. Trautwein. Her victory was full
of merit, for her jockey had drawn a
“bad” marble. Hickey wisely allowed
Chiffon to make the running; driving
Handsome along at top speed from the
Leger, he. got up in time to beat Chiffon
by a head ; Third Clair was a half-head
away. Knight Colin Stephen’s filly Riga
was well backed. After going off the
course at the turn she finished on.
Fernacre is one of the heaviest horses
in training. His big-barrelled appearance
deterred many from supporting him for
the first division of the Flying Welter,
the price easing from 6 to 4 to 5 to 2.
He was a certainty all the same, being
too speedy for Überous and Prince’s
Son when it came to serious racing. Still
Überous was unlucky. He reared when
the barrier was released, was always on
the outside, and was forced wide turning
for home. Dameitta disappointed. She
raced well for half a mile, but “walked”
in the straight.
The Pantheon gelding Panrose (6 to 4)
made the opposition look cheap in
the. second division. He was in front
after the second furlong, and thence-
forward it was “no race.” Charalf and
Marina filled the places.
Hope went' out favorite for the Moore-
field Handicap, being backed from fives
to threes. The journey (a mile and a
quarter) suited him. He put in a good
run half a mile from home, and dashed
away from Buzzalong at the top of the
straight; Windbird was third and old
Satmoth, tailed off early, fourth. El
Senorita was troubled by her Bst. 61b.,
and Point Blank failed to stay. A pro-
test for “interference” was dismissed.
Windbird suffered what interference there
was.
Little Vamp, a stable-mate of Head
Boy and Irak, must have shown her
party some good track trials. She was
backed to threes in the Kogarah Stakes.
Leading throughout, she beat Aerial Post
and Trekster very easily. Bartle had
Aerial Post a long way out of his ground
in the first five furlongs. Making up his
leeway too quickly, the horse tired at
the finish.
Jovial Son, carrying the Sylvandale
colors, won the Hurstville Mile stylishly.
His victory and that of Fernacre were
anticipated by this Page. “Lorna
Doone’s” horse was badly placed passing
the half-mile, pole, but he came with a
fine run at the turn and decisively beat
Sir Ross and Fireman. Fireman had
been backed from 7 to 2 to twos, a
result being that Jovial Son’s supporters
got fours. Yerrapie showed pace for a
few furlongs, and will be all the better
for the race. Poponaise looked a
winner when in the lead entering the
straight', but he could not come on.
* * * *
Weights are out for the A.J.C. Villiers
and Summer Cup. King Gee (7st. 91b.)
and First Son (7st. 21b.) is a pretty fair
double.
* * * *
There was no racing in Melbourne on
Saturday, and the “sports” were wild.
Bendigo Jockey Club had been granted
a Saturday free of opposition for its Cup
fixture, and the “sports” were obliged to
make a journey of 100 miles by train or
car or go without their obsession. On
general principles, it' is a good thing that
a country-town club should have exemp-
tion from metropolitan opposition now
and then, but fares ought to be within
the purses of city racegoers and there
ought to be a tote. Bendigo has none.
Five special trains were scheduled to
leave Melbourne in the morning. Two
had to be cancelled for lack of pas-
sengers. The. minimum fare was 10s.,
and it cost 14s. 6d. first and Us. 6d.
second to travel by the seat-booked
special, with dining-car attached.
In 1869 Austin Saqui landed both the
Melbourne Cup and Bendigo Cup with
Warrior. Three years later “Honest
John” Tait, of Sydney, won the big Flem-
ington event with The Pearl—who, like
Wotan recently, started at 100 to I—and1 —and
sent The Pearl to Bendigo. On the open-
ing day of the Bendigo meeting The
Pearl was defeated by James Wilson’s
Lapdog, and this led to his withdrawal
from the Cup next day. But Tait won
the Melbourne Cup-Bendigo Cup double
in 1872 with The Quack. At that period
the Bendigo Cup meeting was staged on
Wednesday and Thursday, the practice
being continued until this spring.
No doubt an abiding precedent has
been set. Premier Dunstan saw the Cup
run, and H. Alan Currie, chairman, and
many members of the V.R.C. committee,
also witnessed the victory of Counter
Patrol. Geelong is to have a Saturday
free of metropolitan rivalry in January.
Adelaide is often raceless on a Saturday,
and the Easter Monday meeting amidst
the hills at Oakbank attracts a much
bigger crowd than the Adelaide Cup.
Except for picking the winner of the
Bendigo Plate, punters were beaten all
along the line on Saturday. Only three
horses competed in the Plate, worth £l5O
to the winner. Mythologist, owned and
trained by a son of the Sydney veteran
“Ike” Foulsham, refused to leave the
barrier until his two opponents had set
up a lead of a quarter of a mile. This
allowed the 5-to-4-on favorite, Sir
Geraint, to win at his ease from the M.L.-
bred Mercian King. Trained at Wil-
liamstown, Sir Geraint is by Devonshire,
the sire of Dick Devon, and carries the
colors of his breeders, E. A. and H. A.
Underwood.
Punters had their initial reverse when
the Silvius three-year-old, Lautus, started
at 5 to 4 and could not get nearer than
third to Carwin (12 to 1) and Devoson
(10 to 1) in the. Trial Handicap. Carwin
is undersized and originally raced in pony
events. He is a son of that wonderful
galloway Carwelkin, the -son of The
Welkin.
Through Warlaby having been with-
drawn the Bendigo Cup field was reduced
to 14. Spirited wagering took place, with
Dick Devon favorite at 4 to 1 and Turf
Boy at 5 to 1. Panax, backed for a
considerable sum by his owner, H. Engle-
bert, figured at 6 to 1 ; Frill Prince and
Prince Sion were quoted at sevens. Both
Buzbury and Alaric were accorded pref-
erence over Counter Patrol (14 to 1).
At the mile post Villius was leading
by a length from Alaric, with Bonus two
lengths farther off and a similar distance
in advance of Frill Prince and Buzbury.
With half a mile to go Villius was still
in command, half a length in front of
Alaric, with Buzbury now third and then
Frill Prince and Dick Devon.
The success of Frill Prince looked
assured when he took charge at the fur-
long post, but Counter Patrol threw out
a determined challenge and scored by a
neck, with Benthos (who finished remark-
ably well) three-quarters of a length be-
hind the Frilford stallion. Dick Devon
lost ground by going out wide at the
turn, but for which he might have gained
a place.
Counter Patrol has materially added
to the triumphs of Adelaide horses in
Melbourne this spring. It was by a- neck
only that Prince Sion vanquished him in
the V.R.C. Yan Yean Stakes of one mile.
The stallion from S.A. failed, in. the ..Con-
solation .Stakes, and. this induced the be-
lief that 11 furlongs was too far' for*him.
At Bendigo he. was ridden with judicious
restraint by H. Patching, a brother of
the trainer.
Frill Prince is a horse of wonderful
vitality, and he may have been unlucky
not to be enrolled on the list of Bendigo
Cup heroes. After finishing fourth,
against high-class Opponents, in the Con-
solation Stakes at Caulfield on November
21 Frill Prince was taken to his home
stables in the country, whence he did
not emerge until entrained on the morn-
ing of the Bendigo Cup. It was asking
the. horse a lot to travel 100 miles by
train and race almost immediately.
When Xmas Gift toppled over at the
second fence in the Brush Steeple it
looked a “moral” for Fashion Star. The
Treclare gelding flattered his backers at
the half-mile, but weakened and ran a
poor third, Kotupna (14 to 1) winning
after a good tussle with Lanour, another
outsider.
Punters were wide of the mark in the
Bendigo Purse, which fell to Trafalgar
Bay (14 to 1), with Worthing, a cast-off
from Sol Green’s stable., in second posi-
tion. Worthing (Verbius-Barryanda) had
not raced for two seasons. He promises
to regain form.
Dame Chatter, who shared favoritism
with Siren in the Wakeful Stakes at
Flemington, but ended up a disappoint-
ing third, led all the way in the Farewell
Welter. As much as 10 to 1 was ob-
tained about the Windbag filly, but her
starting price was half those odds. A
mile is somewhat beyond the tether of
Sculpin, but' O’Brien rode him with com-
mendable restraint, and it was by only a
length that the Bullhead stallion struck
his colors to Dame Chatter.
Having won well on the previous day
Gilt, owned by E. E. D. Clarke and
trained by Jim Scobie, was a hot favor-
ite. Third into the straight', he faded out.
Gay Sheik finished wonderfully to be
third, after coming from the extreme rear
at the turn.
* * * *
N.S.W. Justice Nicholas has refused
the application of the Victoria Park
Racing Co. for an injunction to restrain
2UW from broadcasting accounts of
Victoria Park races from neighboring
property. According to the judgment
broadcasting does not constitute a nui-
sance, and there is nothing in N.S.W. law
to prevent the station from conducting
what is in effect a rival entertainment.
The case will go to a higher Court.
* * * *
“Bris.”: In its new Racing Bill Queens-
land Labor has wrestled valiantly with
the problem of defining “a place within
the meaning of the Act.” In its defini-
tion “a is “any house, office, room,
tent, resort or other place in or out of an
enclosed building, vessel or premises,
whether on land or water, whether
private property or otherwise, and any
vehicle.” The term vehicle includes “any
car, tramcar, railway carriage, carriage,
drag, wagon, cart, truck, handcart,
barrow, bicycle, tricycle, motor-cycle,
motor-car, motor vehicle and any vehicle
of any kind whatsoever.” That appears
to cover practically everything on land
or water. Betting in aeroplanes, captive
balloons and autogyros will apparently
be legal until they also are brought
within the definition of “a place.” Power
to do this is conferred on the Governor-
in-Council.
{Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
Features of the England-Queensland
match were a poor first-innings score by
the Englishmen, a. great second-innings
stand, the Brown-Rogers opening part-
nership and Verity’s bowling. Ley-
land (98) again kept the side together,
and with Ames (41) was responsible for
more than half the runs. Hammond (36)
and Barnett (20) were the only others to
reach double figures. Dixon, a fast-
medium bowler, got three for 50, slow-
bowler Allen four for 27; the total was
215. After Brown (74) and Rogers (62)
went Andrews added 24, but it was left
to Oxenham (19) and Wyeth (29) to put
the northerners ahead. All out 243.
Verity five for 50.
Beginning again for England Fagg
(112) and Barnett (179 n. 0.) got on to
the bowling properly. It was one. for
303.
o Continued on next page.)
Emulating the 1935 N.S.W. Police crew
the North Shore (N.S.W.) eight lifted
the Vic. Henley Grand Challenge Cup.
The Sydneysiders beat Albert Park by a
couple of lengths; the Melb. ’Varsity
eight was third. It was a bad day for
Vic. metropolitan clubs but country
crews did well. The Westralian four,
stroked by 54-year-old George Rogers,
strolled off with the Stewards’ Challenge
Cup and Sydney’s W. F. Bradley an-
nexed the senior sculling title.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Camden Handicap: Distin-
guished ; next, Sal Volatile.
Kirkham Stakes: Pierrette ; next,
Micawber.
Farm Handicap: Jovial Son;
next, First Son.
Farm Novice: Latharna ; next,
Tuckiar.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Welter Plate: Studio or Marion
Melton; next, Press Gang.
Fund Handicap: St. Valorey;
next. Art.
Highweight Handicap: Gay
Sheik or MariomMelton ; next, Gilt.


•'SILVER
EDGE' 9
{RfuAebtoi,
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND .
Factory Rep.rJOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, V C.
LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORT WORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small high-
pressure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
\
60-
less Gauge
5f m extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ u/ith a
RENRUT
dUADFUJ PL€
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLDj 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD.. Sheffield,
England.
PICKING ’EM.
III
Naturally there are horses to which
the maxim “Horses for courses” does
not apply. When they are well they are
apt to run well on all manner of tracks.
Cases in point are those good mares
Amalia and Alinura, both bred in South
Australia.
Amalia, now in her seventh year, has
won at Morgan, Strathalbyn, Gawler,
Morphettville, Victoria Park, Chelten-
ham Park, Flemington (Australian Cup)
and Williamstown (Cup)—on some of the
S.A. courses several times.
Alinura has won at Cheltenham
Park, Morphettville, Victoria Park, Flem-
ington (Oaks), Moonee Valley, Williams-
town and Caulfield (Consolation Stakes).
The successes of the Adelaide mares
this season and that' of Capris in the
Epsom give rather a knock to the com-
mon belief that “mares are not at their
best in the spring.” Evidently these
mares have been better than ever before.
And the saying is not true of Sarcherie,
who was second in two Melbourne Cups
~ to Peter Pan in 1934 and to Marabou
in 1935—and was rather unlucky not to
have won at weight-for-age on the last'
day of the V.R.C.’s 1936 spring meeting.
Not many mares have won Melbourne
Cups, but Auraria accomplished the feat
in 1895, Acrasia in 1904 and Sister
Olive in 1921. And Wakeful was runner-
up in 1903 and Beloved in 1913.
Wakeful’s performance in the Mel-
bourne Cup has rarely been excelled.
She carried 10 stone and finished within
a length of a really good three-year-old
in Lord Cardigan, who had a mere 6st.
81b. That season Lord Cardigan won
the Sydney Cup with Bst. 71b., and in
the following spring he was a close
second in the Melbourne Cup—his last
race —with 9st. 61b. He must, of course,
have improved considerably in the mean-
time ; all the same, Wakeful’s task was
harder than that of Phar Lap in 1930,
though he won and she failed. Giving
Second Wind a stone was easy compared
with trying to give Lord Cardigan 481 b.
Second Wind was not quite a first-class
horse nor a real stayer; Lord Cardigan
was both.
In 1902 Wakeful won the Sydney Cup
with 9st. 71b. That was the year of the
Great Drought, which lasted into 1903.
It is a curious fact that mares were con-
spicuously successful in those years.
At the A.J.C. spring meeting of 1902
all three weight-for-age races went to
Wakeful (for the Randwick Plate she
was 10 to 1 on); then Air Motor won the
Epsom, Queen of Sheba the Metropoli-
tan (Air Motor was third) and Cyanide
(with 9st.) the Sydney Handicap—all
mares.
Going on to Caulfield Wakeful won the
Eclipse Stakes at w.f.a. Air Motor
was second in that race and third
in the Toorak Handicap; Vanity Fair
was first in the Coongy Handicap
and third in the Caulfield Cup. At
Flemington Wakeful won the Melbourne
Stakes and Vanity Fair was second in
the Cup. At Williamstown Vanity Fair
and Eleanor broke even for the Cup ;
there was a run-off, and Eleanor won.
Nineteen hundred and three was not
only Wakeful’s great year, but the year
of Fishery (Standish Handicap), Pen-
dant (Oakleigh Plate), Chantress (New-
market), Rose Petal (Doncaster), Marvel
Loch (Metropolitan and third in Don-
caster), Sweet Nell (Caulfield Guineas,
Caulfield Cup and second in the
Victoria Derby) and Bee Bee (Mari-
byrnong Plate). Besides running second
in the Melbourne Cup, Wakeful won the
Melbourne Stakes, w.f.a., for the third
time. Yet in the A.J.C. Spring Stakes,
also w.f.a., she had been beaten by an-
other great mare —Cruciform from
Maoriland.
Over large parts of Australia 1936 has
been another drought year. The winter
was uncommonly mild almost every-
where ; the spring was also mild, with
very little rain. Not improbably these
facts have had something to do with
the successes of Capris, Amalia, Alinura,
Siren and the rest. Possibly mares will
go on winning big races as they did in
1902, 1903 and afterwards; 1904,
Acrasia’s Cup year, was very good for
them, and in 1905 they captured the
Futurity Stakes (Gladsome), the New-
market (Playaway), the Australian Cup
(Lord Ullin’s Daughter), the Guineas and
Victoria Derby (Lady Wallace) and the
Caulfield Cup (Marvel Loch).
If erratic seasons contributed to
these many victories, they may be ex-
pected to operate again. Perhaps racing
mares, fillies, matrons and filly foals stand
drought and post-drought conditions
better than horses of the other sex. Be
this as it may, there should be other suc-
cesses in store for Amalia and Alinura,
and for Capris and Fidelity if they stand
training; and fillies like Siren, Sal
Volatile, Hegemonic, Pierrette, Rhoda
Fleming, Sweet Memories and Ena may
be worth following.
Apropos of Amalia and Alinura, it
should be mentioned that both mares
"I forgot to tell you, Mr. Jones, I let your window for a view of the Test
match.”
were badly beaten by Donaster in the
King’s Cup at Morphettville last May.
And it can scarcely be argued that they
were out of form, for Alinura had won
a race in April and been second in an-
other in May, while Amalia had two
months before won the Australian Cup.
They were both giving Donaster a bit of
weight, but in the straight he ran right
away from them, beating the second
horse Petit Fils (who afterwards defeated
Valiant Chief at w.f.a.) by five or six
lengths and running the mile and a half
in 2min. 31 sec.
Donaster was one of the disappoint-
ments of the spring. At one stage of
the Caulfield Cup he looked very like
winning; but the run that had taken
him from nearly last to first ended
suddenly.
Beginning a late-autumn campaign
in Melbourne with a defeat of Gay Lover
at Williamstown, giving that good horse
71b. over a mile and 55 yards, Donaster
won three races at Adelaide, including
the St. Leger. It may have been too
much for him, or perhaps he reserves
his best efforts for the autumn or the
winter. There are horses like that. Any-
way, Donaster is decidedly a horse that
should be kept in mind.
Ins and Outs
“Old Q.”: The Australian XI for the
first Test contains only one sur-
prise, the inclusion of Sievers, who
did fairly well in South Africa with the
bat against minor teams. He may spring
another surprise, as did Chipperfield, the
mystery man of the last Australian
Eleven in England. The others chosen
are Bradman, Badcock, Brown, Chipper-
field, Fingleton, McCabe, McCormick,
Oldfield, O’Reilly, Robinson and Ward.
It is a very strong batting side down to
McCabe, but, apart from Robinson,
there is a definite tail from then on. With
the exception of McCormick and
O’Reilly, all the bowlers are slow leg-
breakers.
Of the 12 men chosen nine, are Ma
Staters; Badcock hails from Tassie and
McCormick and Sievers from Victoria.
No South Australian or Queensland
player has been chosen, though Bradman,
Ward and Brown are at present living
outside N.S.W.
“Dotted Line”: Ward has turned in
his contract with Sir Julien Cahn. That
eminent person’s first reaction to the
news was a cable, that every resource
of the law would be availed of to hold
the young man to the bargain. Alan
Fairfax, the agent in the. affair, said
Ward was to get £550 a year for three
years and further benefits, and had ac-
cepted £5O on account. Ward defiantly
replied that he had returned it. Sir
Julien ended the dispute by telling Fairfax
to “forget it” and look somewhere else
for a bowler.
“Cash Amateur”: Even Kosciusko
thawed somewhat when it came out that
Ward had renounced Sir Julien Cahn and
all his contracts and resolved to remain
in Australia. But patriotism of that kind
is a mug’s game. Suppose Ward catches
every Australian XI and Shield game for
years to come, he won’t make the good,
steady money out of it that he would
have done in the team of the wealthy
and cricket-loving Sir Julien. However,
Ward knows best.
:jc * * *
The dreariness of the England-An Aus-
tralian XI match at Sydney was relieved
by Badcock’s 182 —out of 544 —and by
the efforts of Le.yland and Voce to make
a draw of it. They succeeded, and the
remnant of a small crowd gave them
full credit, the pair being unbeaten at
stumps with 11 runs to save an innings
defeat. Leyland played a chanceless shot
for 118 n. 0., and was naturally much
on the defensive, though occasionally he
found the fence with spanking off drives.
Ames (37) and Robins (33) were the only
other Englishmen to show convincingly.
Verity’s three wickets for 130 in 48 overs
on a good pitch calls for praise. Ebeling,
Chipperfield and Gregory took two
wickets each in England’s second innings
and were all under obligation to the
batsmen at one time or other. Our men’s
work in the field was scrappy, but
’keeper Tallon took four wickets in the
match without missing a chance.
* * * *
“Cash Money”: So far the gate tak-
ings for the English tour are far behind
those for the same period when Jar-
dine was here —the drop is £6OOO
already, to be precise, and only a day
was lost through rain. From their open-
ing match the tour-
ists have been un-
convincing. A win
in the Brisbane Test
would restore the
vanished mana and
swell the slack-bel-
lied cashbags. With
a full team playing
and a Brisbane De
cember thunder-
storm acting in con-
junction with Verity
the dream is not so
fantastic as it may
seem at present.
* *
“G abba”: Re-
exam i n a tion of
Wyatt’s arm shows
it in worse condi-
tion than expected,
and it is doubtful if
he will be able to
play for some time.
The loss of this tried
opening batsman —
he averaged over 38
with Jardine’s team
—is heavily handi-
capping skipper
Allen, who has been
pulling his team to
pieces to find a sub-
stitute. Now Duck-
worth has followed
this up by again breaking the finger
injured at Perth. Wade, who sub-
stituted for him in Victoria and South
Australia, will probably act again, Ames
being reserved for his batting ability if
possible.
* * * *
Financially, cricket appears to be in
the doldrums everywhere. The 1935-36
report of the Maoriland Cricket Council
shows a loss of £3230 on the M.C.C.
team’s tour, though the half-dozen
matches in Australia provided £533 over
expenses. And there was a “deficiency
of £323 on general account.” Most in-
teresting of the results, averages and re-
cords contained in the little booklet is
the fact that Hardstaff, at present faring
miserably with Allen’s team, headed the
tourists’ averages for the matches against
M.L. with 67.25 for six innings and a
highest score of 147 n.o.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The portraits of the first
Australian cricketers aboriginals —to
visit England in 1862 indicate the game


REDUCE YOUR
WAIST!
Fat causes that waist
line bulge; fat-inful-
trated muscles, lead-
ing to weakened, ab-
dominal sagging may-
be causing morbid and
dangerous changes in
the position of your
vital organs.
The Governa Health
Belt gives you a slim,
athletic figure. It re-
stores vigorous health
and virile alertness.
Approved by medicall
men. Supports cor-'
rectly the delicate
organs, and, by its
gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge
))).
is eliminated with every move you make.
TRY THE GOVERNA
BELT FOR 7 DAYS AT
OUR EXPENSE
In 7 days, your waistline will be 3 inches
smaller —3 inches of bulge and strain gone
—OR NO COST. Write at once for full
details of FREE TRIAL OFFER and illus-
trated folder describing the Goverria Health
Belt. Mention this paper. Enclose 2d. in
stamps for postage.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
z
«■
/
!►
■
m
ISP
Mt
i
■m
m
mum
S&fcSss
i
V
i
w
a
. . but Child’s Play for an
INTERNATIONAL
These heavy-duty Internationals are built for a
purpose—and look like it. On the bitumen they
are smooth and swift—and when the track is rough
and difficult they show what heavy-duty quality
really means. The engine and every unit of the
chassis is an example of balanced engineering at
its best . . . Trust your haulage to Internationals—
they cost so much less to own.
The wide, practical range of International trucks
covers utilities, light delivery vans, 20-cwt., 35-cwt.,
2,3, 4 and 5-tonners—and beyond that giant six-
wheelers for the most massive loads that wheels
can carry. Come in and choose the International
that suits your work or see our local agent. Write
to us for a free catalogue.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART. AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
International 35-cwt. Model
C-30. Available in two wheel-
bases—l 33 and 157 inches.
Body types to suit various
kinds oi haulage work.
International 3-ton Model C-40.
Two wheelbases 155 and
185 inches. A high-powered,
heavy-duty truck, equipped
with 5-speed transmission.
W 1965
Ill^
must have been more colorful in those
days. Many of the players are. armed
with spears and boomerangs, and throw-
ing these was a regular feature of the
matches in which the darkies showed.
To the writer, the most interesting feature
was the peculiar team uniform, which he
has never seen mentioned in accounts of
the tour. Players wore regulation white
flannel breeks and a dark shirt with a
broad band of a light color crossing
over the right shoulder, very much like a
racing jacket. Queer cricket uniforms
were worn in the ’sixties. In “W.G.’s”
book on cricket are portraits of Hay-
ward, senior, and Carpenter, a mighty
fast bowler of yore.. Both wear white
shirts with red spots the size of a crown
and queer little bowlers of the kind
Oswald Pryor claps on his Cornishers.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: On January 6 Hagen and
Kirkwood are to start for Australia on a
tour which will also include M.L. The
pair will put in a fortnight in Maoriland
and then come on to Australia for a six
weeks’ tour of the States. Hagen and
Joseph were the first American golfers
to spread in this land the gospel of the
game as. it is preached in Uncle Sam’s
country. That was in 1930, and they
gave the game a great lift from which it
has never recovered.
* * * *
“Run On”: Soutar has been attacking
the folly of sticking to the same par for
summer and winter golf, which is what
playing to a measured par amounts to.
Every player knows how a spell of dry,
hot weather changes a two- or three-
shot hole into an easy single, because of
the increased run of the lively ball on
the hard ground. This gives the long-
marker an advantage over his brother
further back. The remedy suggested is a
“playing par” system of handicapping,
with an improvement in the shockingly
bad design of courses, particularly in
regard to the greens and the approach
thereto.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Blackheath (N.S.W.)
golf club is spreading itself in the matter
of a trophy to be known as the Corona-
tion Cup and to be played for annually
on Blue Mountains club courses. Any
member of a recognised Australasian
golf club is eligible, and play will be over
18 holes stroke on handicap. The winner
is to get a replica of the pot, and his
name will be engraved on it.
H= * * *
“Divot' Digger”: The agitation for the
abolition of the stymie, in golf is raging
again overseas, for, apart from the
anomaly that it is legal or illegal accord-
ing to whether match or medal play is
in progress, there are many injustices
attaching to it. A stymie is quoted as
losing Jock McLean the American ama-
teur championship. His antagonist’s putt
at The deciding hole was a very bad one,
but it left McLean stymied. His failure
to dodge the obstruction lost him the
match and the title.
Racquet and Bawl
“Nark”: A remark by a N.S.W.
tennis official that the Austrajian L.T.A.
was really only the Victorian body under
another label has prompted the indignant
Cabbage Gardeners to appoint some-
thing like a royal commission to investi-
gate the allegations. A committee of
three Victorians will draw up a reply.
* * * *
“Mr. Puff”: Stated that Helen Wills-
Moody, having retired from front-rank
tennis, intends to become a golf cham-
pion and is practising for that purpose.
There is a precedent, for Mary Brown
won high distinction in both games.
Helen is an ambitious young person.
Some time ago she took to painting in
water-color and held a show in ’Frisco.
Also she once published a volume of
poems.
Miscellaneous
“Kokopo”: The New Guinea Govern-
ment plumed itself when it introduced
Soccer football to the natives and found
that they took to it like ducks to a
brewery discharge drain. Recently it
was realised that casualties were severe,
deaths being not uncommon, and a
sudden descent was made by the authori-
ties on a match at Rabaul. This had
begun with the usual 11 men a side, and
when officialdom arrived there were 47
on the field and over a dozen casualties
on the sidelines. A parade showed that
seven players carried knives, 17 bits of
broken bottle, nine razor blades, the
others stone clubheads and other odd-
ments of the kind. This explained the
popularity of the game. Adapted to
N.G. ideals, it has taken the place of
the inter-village warfare which flourished
before the white man came.
“Gate”: Spurred by the Rugby Union
revival in the Parramatta district the
Sydney League is talking of establishing
a club there. In truth, the League would
do better with fewer clubs, for at least
two of the older organisations are so
short of men that they are crying for
new territory. There is plenty of need
for pruning, too.
H* H*
“Everton”: The scandal of feminine
football has grown to such an extent that
the British Football Association has
issued an order to all clubs under its
jurisdiction that in future they are on
no account to permit women to play on
their grounds. As the Union would
explode at the very thought of women
attempting to play under its code, there
only remains the Rugby League if the
girls still decline to go back to domestic
duties. N.S.W. Leaguers once thought
there was money in the game for the
minxes, but after one or two exhibitions
attendances discouraged any further
experiment.
* * * *
“Spike”: That eminent Ethiop Mistuh
Jesse. Owens has settled all doubts
whether or not he will change the color
of his skin and pass from lilywhite ama-
teurism to dusky professionalism. Jesse
has announced that the money being held
out to him for variety turns and for
cinema and radio stunts is so good he
can no more resist it than he can a young
chicken or a ripe melon. As in private
life Jesse has never earned more than the
inconsiderable sum paid to those who
rub down cars he is evidently a wise
coon in his generation.
“Blue Chalk”: Marshall, the Westra-
lian billiardist, fulfilled Australian expec-
tations by walking off with the Empire
championship in Johannesburg. In the
final round he beat the South African
Bowley 3413 to 1493 ; he had already de-
feated Prior 2260 to 1896 and Thompson
(England) 2852 to 2458. In the match
with Thompson Marshall hoisted the
record break for South Africa, 254.
* * *
“Bias”: Once more an attempt is to
be made to alter the rules of the
N.S.W.B.A. to permit the payment of
expenses to travelling bowlers. The
opposition argues that payments of the
kind amount to professionalism, which
is preposterous. Walter Marks, whose
name is synonymous with amateur sport,
is suggesting an association green on
which admission charges could be levied
to form the nucleus of an expenses fund.
* * $ *
“Ride Off”: Four N.S.W. polo players
will be in Manila at Christmas to play
against local teams. J. A. Finlay and
R. J. Alison are already over there
acclimatising the ponies; A. A. Hender-
son and F. Bragg are to follow. The
tour will be under control of the Tama-
raos club ; a contingent from the U.S.A.
is expected as well as a team from the
American garrison of the islands, which
usually fields a pretty hot side. It is
hoped that the tour will lead up to a
regular interchange of visits. As Aus-
tralia is a noted breeder of high-class
ponies, which is not the case with the
Philippines, there may be another string
to it.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS: .
F E Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
sir Grafiam Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W H. Mackay J. Earesford Grant,
Colin A Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
df
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 74 hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Sale*
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
GERRARD
The customer is always right when he gives a clean
acceptance receipt for cased goods wire-seal strapped
for safe transport with GERRARD.
.OX&S3DL
iff-twr-
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane. Td-m.llle. Perth. Adelaide. Hubert
ACCOUNTANCY - SECRETARYSHIP
These are some reasons why you should train for
Accountancy and Secretaryship under H. & «•
guidance. No other institution in the world can
show such predominating success with its students,
nor so consistently year after year guarantee con-
tinued instruction at no further cost until you do
qualify. Personal-Individual Tuition, and not re-
stricted in time or volume by the knowledge of one
or two tutors—our personnel numbers nearly
full-time members.
We are official coaches to most of the largest
organisations in Australia. The H. & R. » ta
Appointment Service is free assistance to all enroiiees.
Write to-night for particulars —enclose advertisement.
Our 40th Year.
Personal-Individual Tuition.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
The Accountancy Specialists,
38 Bank House., Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l.
Offices all Capital'Cities and Newcastle.
Dear Sirs,—J am interested in Business. Pl e ?**
send me free copy of the 1936 Edition of ‘-The Guide
to Business Careers.”
Name
Address
3B/263
BUSINESS, ROLLERY, ETC.
A 10 p.c. div., net tangibles with a book
value of 255. per share (plant figures at
less than a third of its original cost),
healthy finances and a strong manage-
ment —Yarra Falls shares, at 40s. last
week, again get a mention as one of the
best investment buys on the sharemarket
at present. The Globe Woollen Mills, in
Sydney, and the Yarra Falls Mills, at
Abbotsford (Vic.), contribute to earn-
ings, which last year were published at
11.9 p.c. on capital. The co.’s lowest
distribution during the slump was 5 p.c.,
in 1931. Shares are listed in Melbourne
and Sydney, and give a present yield of
5 p.c.
* * * *
Another week, and base metals still
definitely up —lead double the. price of
two or three years ago, spelter around
£l7 sterling a ton, electrolytic copper still
at £49, and tin over £230. Lead, an
obvious armament material, has had the
most spectacular rise, followed by
copper. Out of the doldrums for good,
it' is to be hoped. But war fears have
been a large influence, and the crest of
the price-wave may not be held up later
on by ordinary commercial demand. It
is possible, however, that the present
fillip has started something that will
assist in general trade revival.
* . * * *
The strong overseas market for copra,
mentioned in B. 18/11/’36, continued
upward last week. South Seas sun-dried
went to £l7 17s. 6d., and Rabaul hot-air-
dried to £lB 15s. These are far and
away the best prices since slump sent
quotations to around £7 a ton in London
a few years back. Investors are taking
a renewed interest in the shares of Morris
Hedstrom, W. R. Carpenter and the
Burns Philp cos.
* * * *
Bank shares in some cases went to the
highest level of recent years last week.
Commercial of Sydney’s at £2l 17s.
hadn’t been higher since the depression,
and at £36 ’Wales shares were particu-
larly strong. National’s £5 issue
at £8 was a post-slump record. The
’Wales recently lifted its div. to 6 p.c. ;
and there seems to be a feeling that
higher interest rates, now imminent, will
mean a wider margin of profit for banks.
Also clearly in the picture are increased
exchange earnings as shown by grow-
ing bank clearings, and an improved
securities position following the rise in
wheat and wool prices.
Steamships Trading Co.
Papua and the Mandated Territory
are at present expanding in matters of
production and trade. During the slump
gold from the Bulolo and Edie Creek
kept the population cheerful, and now
Rabaul copra is back to £lB a ton in
London, with rubber also on the rise.
After 17 years of development the
business of Steamships Trading Co.,
Ltd., Port Moresby, has outgrown its
capital. With assets in the books at
£120,228 on June 30, shareholders’ equity
appears at only £64,433 (£29,811 in 7 p.c.-
10 p.c. prefs., £24,365 in ords., £10,257
p. and 1. balance). Outsiders are owed
£43,837, and there is a general and de-
preciation reserve of £11,958. The public
is now offered the unissued capital-
-20,189 £1 cum. prefs. at 28s. and 25,635
£1 ords. at 30s. The issue is being made
by Churchills, Ltd., a Sydney share-
selling concern, to which, apparently, the
premium on the scrip (totalling £20,893)
will belong.
The nature of the enterprise is best
judged from its assets. Merchandise
stocks at Port Moresby, Samarai, Misima
and eight country stores are valued at
£30,345. Ship property (five coastal and
river vessels and nine trochus-fishing
cutters) are in at £23,768. Plantations,
bought during the slump and said to be
worth £42,000, appear at £17,158, and
leasehold premises at £17,997. Plant
£3574, stores, etc., £4532, debtors £18,028,
and cash and sundries £4826 make up the
rest. There are no intangibles now.
Earnings for the three years to June,
1936, are certified to at £3763, £6259
and £10,206 respectively. Arrears of
pref. divs. have been cleared up since
the close of accounts.
In the last completed term profits were
equal to 18.8 p.c. on paid capital, or
14.5 p.c. on capital and loan moneys.
The prospectus says that the co. does
“the best grocery business in Port
Moresby,” and shop sales in the two
principal centres are in the vicinity of
£lOO,OOO a year. Agencies for mails, the
K.P.M. line, Carpenters’ ’planes, Vacuum
“Fourteen days!"
“Make it a month , y'r' ’ Onor—the wife's bringing the mother-in-law to
stay with us for the ’olidays."
Oil and other' odds and ends help earn-
ings, in addition to the more important
shipping and produce-trading activities.
The co.’s plantations earned a profit last
year; that being so, they should do
much better this year.
The co. has been paying on the high
side for bank accommodation, and as
loans are repaid earnings should benefit.
With finances easier a bigger trade can
be handled.
The 1935-36 profit would be equal to
10.2 p.c. on the proposed new capitalisa-
tion of £lOO,OOO. Past earnings have
largely gone towards eliminating intan-
gible assets, writing down book values
and in business expansion. If the new
share issue is fully taken, dividends on
a remunerative scale look to be within
the co.’s capacity.
The prefs., 7 p.c. cumulative, have the
right to participate with the ords. up to
10 p.c. At 275. 6d. the yield would be
a shade over 5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. basis,
7.2 p.c. if the rate rises to 10 p.c. The
ords. at 30s. would show 4.6 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div., 6.6 p.c. on 10 p.c. Such divs.
have yet to be demonstrated, but possi-
bilities are reasonable. At the prices
asked for the co.’s scrip it' is a promising
speculative industrial concern.
Net tangible assets, after deducting
approximate arrears of pref. divs. (now
provided for) are roughly 455. sd. prefs.,
31s. 7d. ords. Captain A. S. Fitch,
founder of the proprietary co. in 1919
and managing director of the present
concern since its formation in 1924,
remains in control.
Electrolytic Zinc has taken 180,000
shares in British Aluminium (Aust.), Ltd.,
registered in Melbourne last week, and
British Aluminium Co. (Eng.) the re-
maining 120,000. The new co. is to turn
out the, light and useful metal at E.Z.’s
Risdon (Tas.) works. Aluminium is the
most widely distributed metal in
nature, being an essential in ordinary
clay, but commercial production is
from its more concentrated ores, chiefly
bauxite, of which there are several
known deposits in Australia. Raw ma-
terials, as far as this new co. is con-
cerned, will in the first instance be
brought from overseas. Aluminium, pure
and in alloys (as for aeroplane metal),
continues to meet with a growing Aus-
tralian demand.
# * * *
Wiluna shares have slipped to 425. 6d.
in Adelaide. Two years ago, people paid
over 80s. for £1 equities in the co. which
controls Australia’s second-biggest gold-
producer, out from Meekatharra (W.A.).
From the outset it was tackled as a low-
grade proposition, but lately the drop
in quality of the ore has been dis-
concerting. It is these performances
which have influenced the market:
Average
Crushing Yield,
Year to Tons. Oz. Dwt.
Mar 31,1934 .. 469,362 for 124,531 5.30
1935 .. 439,395 „ 108,373 4.94
” ” 1936 .. 537,954 „ 123,952 4.64
7 months to
Oct 31,1936 .. 330,568 „ 66,117 4.00
Yields include gold from cyanide residues.
In 1933-34 actual recoveries were worth
225. 6d. a ton (gold at 855.). For the
future, head values of 225., with possible
recoveries of 88 p.c. (395. 6d. Aust.), are
spoken of. With working costs at 225.
(Aust.) per ton, on a throughput of
580,000 tons a year gross profits of
£507,500 (Aust.) are on the cards, and
something close to that figure is ex-
pected by the management. There is
about five years’ ore proved of 235. (old
price) grade. In last week’s quote of
425. 6d the market paid about 10s. a
share for prospects. It may not be too
much in the long run.
* * * *
“Negotiations still in the early stages”
between W. H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.
and representatives of the English Boots
concern were enough to keep specu-
lation in the Sydney-Newcastle co.’s
shares alive last week. Large dealings
continued at around 90s.
* * * *
Ordinary shares in Holeproof, Ltd., the
Victorian hosiery concern, are having a
run of popularity on ’Change from
which the holders well deserve to benefit.
As Staley and Staley, Ltd., there was
little in it for the proprietors over a
long spell. After the link-up with the
American Holeproof organisation sales
ran out near the front among Com-
monwealth manufacturers, and, after
arrears of pref. divs. were cleared off,
ord. shareholders got 6 p.c. for the six
months to Dec., 1934, and 8 p.c. for the
year to Dec., 1935. In the latter term
10.9 p.c. was shown on ord. capital.
Reserves in excess of intangibles were
then equal to Is. 9d. per £1 ord. share.
Quotations, for months near 235., re-
mained around 28s. last week, showing
a yield of 7 p.c. if 10 p.c. is paid for
1936, or 5.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. basis.
* * * *
Amalgamated Textiles (N.S.W.) shares,
now 13s. 4d. par value, fell to 7s. 6d.
last week in anticipation of poorer
results in the annual accounts, which
should be in shareholders’ hands to-day
(Wednesday). The year has been one
generally favorable, to textile manufac-
turers, and just where the market be-
lieves this co. has slipped it will be in-
teresting to find out. The co.’s reserves
are slender and its mills are scattered —
they are at Albury, Orange and Goul-
burn —but of recent years plant has been
solidly written down out of earnings.
Finances for some time up to the Sept.,
1935, balance (when 5 p.c. was paid to
shareholders) showed a steady improve-
ment.
He * * *
Stabilisation of coal prices in N. S.
Wales was still in the air last week. The
industry has bigger hopes than usual of
the movement now afoot, which aims at
fixing a reasonable selling price for its
products in place of the cutthroat com-
petition which has wiped out practically
all profits in the industry since 1930. A
price of 20s. a ton at Newcastle is said
by some to be necessary to give a reason-
able return to most Maitland cos. Ac-
tivity in coal shares tapered off last
week, though scrip-holders still seemed
to take a hopeful view.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The Board of Works was on the market
for £630,000 at £4 2s. 6d. per cent—a cash
and conversion operation. The rate is 3s. 2d.
per cent, above that offered on the present
Commonwealth loan
North Kalgurli shares firmed to 20s. 6d.,
then dropped to 19s. 9d. This is one of the
best gold issues offering at present prices.
Mammoth scrip recovered to Is. 7d. follow-
ing reports of the investigating engineers.
Carlton Brewery shares sold at 625., giving
a yield of £3 17s. sd. per cent. Price-cutting
by the Richmond Brewery for home-delivered
bottle beer has influenced the sharemarket,
but Carlton should maintain its 12 p.c.
Mt. Lyell scrip kept firm around 375.
Barrier shares kept fairly steady near the
previous week’s rates. Sulphide Corp. ords.
eased a little after announcement of the 5 p.c.
div.


'
:
m
f The
f Perfect Xmas
Gift for a
Horsewoman.
The
“Garvan”
All-over
Pigskin
Saddle,
£l6/19/6
(MOUNTED).
The panel is leather
lined.
With pigskin seat only,
kip flaps, serge lining,
£l2/17/-
(MOUNTED).
N.S.W. freight paid for
cash with order
Write for 100-page
Saddlery Catalogue for
full list of Saddles,
Bridles, Whips, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
38)5 (iEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
w?ve...
CUTLERY
Th is Christmas
——
Stainless Steel Knives with
the new long handles and
short blades. Tables 27/6,
Desserts 25/- per half doz.
Best quality Old English
Design Silverware. Tables
27/6, Desserts 19/- per
Half doz.
W. JNO. BAKER,
LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
D
by
UNION
LINE
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney _ 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas,
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney . . .
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares irom £5.
Full
particulars
from
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand,
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1,
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
hooking s
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY. -Rhone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Age,
IN THE
ISupEr-FrBBXBr
n "* NON - EIECTHIG REFRIGERATOR
With a Super-Freezer (kerosene-oper-
ated refrigerator) your food-wastage
and food storage troubles are over.
This modern, non-electric refrigerator
holds a whole sheep cut up, and keeps
it fresh, succulent, nourishing! With
the Super-Freezer you can serve dainty
ice-cold drinks and fruit salads, frozen
puddings, iced and jellied desserts!
Trifles, blanc-manges, and crisp salads
are no trouble.
Continuous cold from cold re*
serve tank in all 1936 Models.
Continuous refrigeration
simply by lighting the small
kerosene burner once a day.
No mechanism!
Super - Freezer
Chest Model
available in three
sites from
£34'10
TS.S.W. Distributors: —
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS LTD.
188 George Street, Sydney.
Write for full particulars, or call at the above address for demonstration.
BE SURE AND GET THIS
MONSTER
100 PAGES FOR 3d.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
SIX SHORT STORIES
Travelogue: In Reindeer Land
Delightful Betty Patterson Page
CHRISTMAS IN A.D. 2036
A Night at a Chinese Play
TURKEY TIME!
A Christmas Dinner Menu from Soup to Savory
MAKE YOUR OWN BON-BONS!
BARGAIN PATTERN OFFER
A Christmas Special.
Pique Hat, Collar, Gauntlets and Bag.
ON SALE FRIDAY AT ALL NEWSAGENCIES
After a quarter of the clip has been
sold at rates below last season’s, Aus-
tralian woolgrowers are now getting
better than last season’s prices, Possi-
bilities of resumed trade with Japan have
had their influence.
* * * *
Industrial and most other equities
slackened in the sharemarket last week,
the loan operation and approach of
Christmas being blamed in the byways
of the market. Pitt, Son and Badgery, a
long-neglected N. S. Wales woolbroking
stock, was one of the few issues to make
notable headway. Swan Brewery was
another ; under influence of the directors’
proposal to split the 255. shares into ss.
counters and to issue £85,000 of new
capital at a premium of 40 p.c. the scrip
rose to the record price of £7 12s.
* , * *. *
A div. is at last coming from New
Occidental (Cobar, N.S.W.)—an interim
of 6d. a share, payable Dec. 19. The
scrip has strengthened to 12s.
c * e r' a *ar* * u s
Earnings of Gordon and Gotch, Ltd.,
penodical distributors, in the term to
Sept. 30 amounted to 14.3 p.c. on ord.
capital, and the increased 12 p.c. div,
was comfortablv covered
was comfortably covered.
Lake View and Star shares were in-
dicated as one of the best-established
gold interests offering when the scrip
was down to 28s. early this year. Fol-
lowing last year’s record profit and in-
creased div. quotes have lifted to 325.
* * * *
“A little show with big possibilities”
was the description here given to Bankers
and Traders’ Insurance Co. in B.
23/9/’36. Attention has been drawn to
the 10s. shares since they were well
below 30s. After selling at 325. 6d. sup-
port waned for a time; then last week
they lifted to the new high level of
335. 6d. Attractions are in the present
and future earning power, not in present
divs.
* * * *
Raub, the Brisbane-controlled F.M.S.
gold show, has declared an increased
quarterly dividend of 6d. a share (which
compares with 4d.), Development of
ore reserves was allowed to get into
arrears, and early in 1935 shareholders
were startled to hear that these were
“exhausted.” The scrip fell from around
30s. to below 10s., and divs. cut out
for a while. But there is a big ore-
body on the property, and as new areas
were blocked out milling operations
stepped up, with increased recoveries.
The scrip is now back to 20s. 3d.
* * * *
Henry Jones Co-op.’s net profit of
£195,450 for the year to Oct. 31 was a
ecor£ j beating the showing of the previ-
F T( ,.
° u f best year ( 932) hy £24,384. The
div ' »a s. b !f n I>£ted , fr °™ ,?L P n t
P-C-, and sharemarket quotations, which
rose from 43g to 4gs 6d about thrQe
weeks ago, are now steady around 465.
6d. In 1932 there was a market dis-
turbance following the chairman s an-
nouncement that the assets, if gener-
ously valued, would not equal 395. 4d. a
share. Last year’s earnings were equal
to 13.7 p.c. on capital, and the scrip in
the boom days went to over 50s, Subsi-
dised competing canneries have been a
factor to contend with of late years.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Gay Desperado”
A musical screen play with a title
like that ought to zip along light-
heartedly, with plenty of food for laugh-
ter tangled up with singing and love-
making. Surprisingly, to this critic, who
feared the worst, the director of this
film had the same idea about it, and
neatly filled the specification. It is all
about a Mexican bandit chief, Carranza
(Leo Carrillo), who, led away by Ameri-
can gangster films, remodels his methods
and goes in for what he calls “kitnaps.”
He “kitnaps” first a tenor singer, Chivo
(Nino Martini), and then a rich young
man (James Blakely) and his sweetheart
(Ida Lupino). Chivo, under compulsion
a bandit', helps the captives to escape,
but real American gangsters, pretending
partnership with Carranza, recapture,
them. Of course, it all ends happily, with
the girl and Chivo in clinches.
Good marks for the direction must be
recorded for making fun out of all the
characters. Hero and heroine sling
plates and pots at each other, pull each
other’s hair and wind up in the roman-
tic moonlight tattered and torn and
heavily smeared with soot. Martini, one
of those Italians who simply must wave
his arms when singing, gets off one of
his arias while handcuffed to a stolid
police officer, who has to follow the
vocalist’s impassioned gestures. Carrillo
and Harold Huber, as the bandit’s lieu-
tenant, are at their best in a scene where
Chivo is to be shot against an adobe
wall and spoils the whole effect (in the
lieutenant’s opinion) by declining a cigar-
ette, on the quite inadequate ground that
he doesn’t smoke. Welcome history is
made in the development of musicals by
limiting most of Martini’s accompani-
Warner Baxter in “Road to Glory,” at
Sydney Regent.
ments to the guitars visible in the scene.
Martini isn’t a great tenor, but his voice
is pleasant and well-trained, and the soft
thrum of strings gives it a sufficient back-
ground.
Construction of the play is clever (the
opening, in a cinema, is particularly effec-
tive), and director and photographers
have joined forces to present a series of
scenes that have the elements of good
art in their composition. Previewed at
the Plaza Theatrette, Sydney.
“The General Died at Dawn”
Clifford Odets, the playwright who
has given N. S. Wales Chief Secretary
Chaffey and the. Mayor of Collingwood
(Vic.) such a lot of anxiety, is the author
of this screen play (previewed at the
Paramount Theatrette, Sydney). It is one
of those Chinese affairs—a whole prov-
ince suffering under the ruthless tyranny
of a war-lord. Characteristic Odets
touches are glimpses of a town that
didn’t pay its taxes (carrion crows hover
over its smoking ruins) and the tremen-
June Lang in “Road to Glory."
dous democratic fervor of O’Hara, the
agent for the oppressed. O’Hara (played
by Gary Cooper) isn’t a very efficient
agent. He is easily decoyed by a siren
(Madeleine Carroll) aboard a train,
where he falls a helpless captive to
General Yang (Akim Tamiroff). There’s
a lot of intrigue over the money taken
from O’Hara, building up to a situation
where O’Hara and the siren (who, of
course, has a heart of gold) are pris-
oners aboard a junk inhabited by General
Yang and his bodyguard. .The money
is missing and Yang proposes to torture
his captives till they reveal its where-
abouts. He is stabbed in the stummick
by a drunken American (William Fraw-
ley). Before dying he proposes to execute
his captives, after which his guards, at his
command, will execute each other. The
happy ending is the whole point of the
drama, and it would not be fair to dis-
close the manner of its mechanism.
Direction is good ; more effective mon-
tage has seldom been devised, and to
economise time there are sometimes as
many as five glimpses of action in
various locations on the screen at once.
Gary Cooper is at his best; Tamiroff is
silkily sinister as the war-lord; Miss
Carroll agonises very effectively, and ex-
cellent character sketches are put over
by Dudley Digges, J. M. Kerrigan and
William Frawley.
“Forgotten Faces”
Despite the moth-eaten condition of
some of its dramatic material this film
offers Herbert Marshall and Gertrude
Michael more effective roles than either
has had for a very long while. A man
goes to gaol for life for shooting his
wife’s paramour. Through the agency
of a trusted friend baby daughter is
taken from wife and handed over to a
wealthy couple who adopt the infant.
Wife doesn’t know where the child has
gone and doesn’t care, but years later
(when the infant has bloomed into a
beauteous maiden just on the verge of
a rich and happy marriage) she sees an
opportunity for blackmail. Convict hus-
band warns her in a gaol interview that
if she tries on anything of the sort it will
be the. last thing she will do. He is
released on parole, but the parole
authorities, having an inkling of how
matters stand, exact from the man a
promise that he won’t kill his wife. He
doesn’t, but he checkmates her knavish
tricks. How he’s going to do it keeps
the audience guessing. Marshall appears
in three guises—professional gambler,
convict, butler —and is first-rate in each.
Miss Michael has the sort of part in
which she excels—a nasty bit of work,
devoid of heart and conscience, but as
cunning as a fox. There’s a touch of
Strindberg’s “Madame. X” in a scene
where this woman tries to pump her
husband’s old friend, Police-sergeant
Donovan (James Burke). She begs, she
implores, she works herself into a fury
of rage and invective, and he sits reading
a newspaper with a face like a stone,
uttering not one word throughout. The
climax of the melodrama is a neat job.
Previewed at Paramount Theatrette.,
Sydney.
“Isle of Fury”
Somerset Maugham is the putative
father of this opus, but it has all the
halt-marks of a by-blow of Zane Grey.
Pearler (Humphery Bogart) on desolate
Pacific island (which nevertheless sup-
ports a medico and a vicar) rescues from
sea mysterious stranger (Donald Woods).
Everyone supposes that stranger is
wanted by police, but he isn’t —he’s an
“Australian detective” (that’s why he
says he is an American and talks like
one) after the pearler. Stranger soon
falls in love with pearler’s bride (“My
Gahd, she’s beautiful,” he pants after
first setting eyes on her). Nevertheless
he rescues her spouse from an octopus
(a very palpable fake), frees him from
the clutches of an interfering sea captain
and then vanishes nobly from the scene.
Action is slow, and the climax isn’t worth
the long and tedious preparation for it.
The film can be recommended to suf-
ferers from insomnia. At Sydney
Capitol.
“The Big Game”
Seven hundred and forty-fourth version
of the story of the collegiate footballer
who was kidnapped by wicked gamblers
and rescued just in time to pull the big
match out of the fire in the last two
minutes of the last quarter. A lot of
real footballers are in the cast, but it’s
all lost on Australians, who not only
don’t understand the gridiron game but
accumulate more dislike for it every
time it is pushed down their throats. The
soprano-voiced Andy Devine, Bruce
Cab'ot and the rapid-speaking James
Gleason put' some good acting, comic
Lionel Barrymore in “Road to Glory.”
and otherwise, into this rehash of old
material, but they fail to make it either
new or interesting. At Sydney Capitol.
“Love Begins at 20”
Brisk comedy on familiar lines, held
together by Hugh Herbert as a hen-
pecked husband. From an early-morn-
w™h of bonds belongng’to his em-
ployer. Bandits rob him, and his em
p|oyer, thr«tos to the loss out of
his miserable sa y. ,■ .
his sorrow at a lodge meeting at which
the bandits, running from the police, take
Franchot Tone in “Suzy,” at Sydney
Prince Edward.
refuge. The bonds are put back into his
pocket, and Herbert lands in the cooler
on a charge of theft. However, the gal-
lantry of his son-in-law results in the.
capture of the bandits and the release of
Herbert, who returns home determined
to rule his household. Patricia Ellis as
Herbert’s blonde screen daughter lends
good support. At Sydney Regent.
“Heart of the West”
The title is cribbed from O. Henry,
the yarn allegedly is based on Mesquite
Jenkins, Tumbleweed, and the main
characters are Hopalong Cassidy and his
offsider, represented by William Boyd
and Jimmy Ellison. The plot owes no-
thing to O. Henry, the Jenkins novel or
to Clarence E. Mulford. It is the old,
old one. about the guy from the East with
the pretty sister, whose ranch was sorely
preyed upon by rustlers until a couple
of golden-hearted cowboys with woolly
pants arid bushels of six-shooters came
along to convert the bad men into
cold meat. Previewed at Paramount
Theatrette, Sydney.
Some First Nights
The principal interest of “Cotillon” as
produced by the Russian Ballet on Satur-
day in Melbourne was the virtuosity of
Tamara Tchinarova. This olive-skinned,
brown-eyed girl of 17 is getting a chance
to prove that she has both technique and
sense of drama. Her fouettees are as
brilliant as those she performs in “Le
Beau Danube.” With supple body and
rippling arm movements she infuses
lively anticipation into her role of a
tulle-skirted guest at the dance and tense
fatalism into her fortune-telling. By
atmosphere rather than action is con-
veyed the excitement of preparation for
a ball at which a cavalier seeking to
choose a hidden lady by her hand above
a screen is himself clasped by the hand
of Fate. Enter harlequins, jockeys,
Spaniards and guests in rose-colored
spectacles and paper caps. Chabrier’s
music goes faster, to culminate in a spec-
tacular finale, the dancers making a
wheel pattern of movement round and
round the stage. The decor, commend-
able for giving height to the stage, is
carried out in crimson and silver by
Schervachidze, who would be a prince if
his country hadn’t gone republican.
“L’Oiseau de Feu” is the synthesis of
artistic co-operation between composer
Stravinsky and choreographer Fokine,
who were commissioned by Diaghileff
to create a piece of work around the
title of “Fire. Bird.” The music is full


Patent.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patents No.
24227 /29 in respect of an invention entitled
“Improvements in and relating to separable
fasteners particularly suitable for uniting strips
of fabric and the like,” and No. 7181/32 in
respect of an invention entitled “Improvements
in and relating to zip fasteners” is prepared
to negotiate for the sale of its rights in the
above, or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the inventions within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
inventions obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
WOOL YARNS No. 2
BUY! BUY! WOOLBUYER
Buy! Buy! Woolbuyer! But not just
three bags full. Not just one for the
Master, and one for the Maid, and one
for the Little Boy—but 20,000 bales!
Enough to keep a complete Australian
Industry going— to employ 2250 Aus-
tralians producing Worsted, Knitting
and Weaving Yarns, Twills and Fancy
Worsted Suitings, Venetians, Baratheas,
Covert Coatings, Wool Crepes, Wool
Georgettes . . . Buy! Buy! Woolbuyer.
Figures in themselves are uninspiring
things. We can tell you, for instance,
that Yarra Falls and Globe in their
Worsted Spinning and Weaving Mills
use 20,000 bales of wool per annum in
producing nearly 4,000,000 pounds of
yarn and 3,000,000 yards of woven
fabrics. We can point with justifiable
pride to plant and buildings represent-
ing a capital investment of over
£1,250,000, with mill floor space of 12
acres. We can show 2250 names on
our payrolls.
* v -
U '#P!
m i
■■■■■s;
Scouring Greasy Wool.
n.
20,000 Bales.
SPECIFY YARRA
FALLS MATERIALS
Twills and Fancy Worsted
Suitings . . . Venetians . . .
Baratheas . . . Covert
Coatings . . . Wool Crepes
. . . Wool Georgettes and
other dress materials. You,
Sir! and you, Madam!
are amply provided for,
in material, in design, in
color, by Yarra Falls, for
in color alone the mills
offer 1250 solid shades
and over 5000 tonings.
Twenty thousand bales of
wool per annum, grown,
scoured, spun, woven and
worn in Australia.
So Buy! Buy! Woolbuyer,
and when ordering your
next suiting or dress
material SPECIFY
YARRA FALLS.
Yorkshire, the home of the British Wool
Industry, has supplied the bulk of the
machines, which were chosen for Yarra
Falls by one of the leading British
Spinners. Under expert guidance Aus-
tralian employees work those machines.
That they have done so successfully is
indicated by the growth of Yarra Falls
since operations were started in the
Wool-combing Department 18 years
ago. Then the primary objects of the
company were the combing and spin-
ning of wool into yarn. But success calls
for progress, and weaving was soon
undertaken, developing in an ever-
widening range and variety of fabrics.
■
11 m
mm
Winding Warps.
YARRA FALLS LIMITED
Worsted Spinning § Weaving Mills, Abbotsford, N 9, Victoria
of bird calls, forest sounds and the swish
of the magic horse’s tail —a succession of
incompleted rhythms that must be very
difficult for the dancers to follow. The
scenery starts out to be the best of the
season, but the side curtains of the en-
chanted wood are made do for the
second scene, the inside of the castle,
where luminous vines and creepers have
nothing in common with the gay coral
reds of the backcloth.
In the beginning Blinova is an ex-
quisite Firebird, attaining heights of emo-
tion in her pas de deux with Froman.
Then come the 13 princesses. The
prince follows them into the forbidden
territory of the castle, and is captured
by the wizard. The Firebird comes to
his rescue, incites the wizard’s retainers
to a frenzy of dancing which culminates
in their exhaustion, the finding of the
magic egg and breaking of the wizard’s
spell. Froman is satisfactory in the
secondary role of the prince. Floyer
makes a realistic wizard, though his long
claws and old-man-of-the-sea get-up are
so exaggerated as to make comedy where
none is needed. Branitzka is much safer
in roles which require neat work on the
“points” than as the Beautiful Tsarevna,
who is required to unfold a narrative
with graceful gestures of arms and
hands.
•J* *b *b
Some slight changes in cast as compared
with the previous recent season were made
in the performances of “H.M.S. Pina-
fore” and “The Mikado” at Sydney
Theatre Royal last week, but Ivan Men-
zies was again Sir Joseph Porter and Ko-
Ko, and in other respects the operettas
went as well as ever. It is being com-
plained by stern Savoyophiles that cer-
tain members of the current co., with
Menzies at the head and front of the
offending, import into these productions
a lot of comedy that isn’t in the books;
also that they make fun of what should
be quite serious scenes. That’s a very
weighty indictment, and it could be but-
tressed by abundant evidence, but the
crusty critics who launch it should re-
member that not even when the caustic-
tongued W.S.G. was at rehearsals could
he prevent comedians putting a bit of
their own into the show. And, after all,
these things are comic operas, not litur-
gies. If they were always presented in
exactly the same way the people who
play them so often and the critics who
so often see them doing it would be in
danger of sore mental affliction.
•b HE* *b *b
In the delightfully spooky “Ghost
Train” Arnold Ridley satisfied most
crime epicureans; in “Recipe for
Murder,” on Sydney Players’ Club’s latest
menu at St. James’s Flail, he merely re-
hashes the week-end joint, garnishing it
with a trick ending. For two-thirds of
the thing John Summers (William Wines)
plots the perfect murder on time-honored
lines, only to see his plans nipped in the
bud at the eleventh hour, his victim being
bumped off by an unknown. And so a
versatile country doctor gets opportunity
to demonstrate that there are brains out-
side Scotland Yard. Betty Coffer was
an easily-looked-at and -listened-to by-
stander and Frances Barclay introduced
some stock humor as a mulish deaf and
aged serving-woman not quite the dun-
derhead she appears. Others were as
comfortable as a parson in a beer-
garden.
b b b •5'
Adelaide Royal has sprung back to
activity with a light-opera season. Frank
Leighton, battling with a heavy cold,
tends to talk the songs of “The Merry
Widow’s” coy hero, as Leslie Holland
used to do ; but Gladys Moncrieff is in
glorious voice, as are Arthur Clarke and
Miriam Lester as the passionate lovers.
Phil Smith comes back as chief fun-
maker, ably assisted by Don Nicol. The
latter’s dance with Lois Green brings
down the house; she is a person to
be watched in future, as also is Sidney
Wheeler.
4. 4.
Ruthless sub-editing would have made
a good three-acter of Alexander Guthrie’s
four-act Australian period play “Within
These Waffs,” presented by the Drama-
tists’ Club at Melbourne Princess under
the direction of Marjorie McLeod and
J. Ormiston Reid. Half a play should
not be needed to suggest that human hap-
piness is more important than an old
home. James Cameron (Will Clarkson)
built the house in the ’fifties for his Scot-
tish bride. As the hopeful girl, the dis-
appointed mother and the grandmother
obsessed with her old home and her
memories, Clarice Graham was excel-
lent. Dorothy Cornish played Hannah
"R.M.S. Strathnaver," wash-drawing by Frank Norton, at the
Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
Price, the Cameron servant-girl whom
naughty old James loved on the quiet.
The well-played last act between the two
old women made up for earlier con-
struction weaknesses.
Current Artbursts
That the turbine and the Diesel-elec-
tric drive haven’t robbed ships of their
beauty and mystery nor the sea of its
magic is proved in the show of Frank
Norton’s work at the Macleod Gallery,
Sydney. Norton, a Maorilander by birth,
is artistically a product of the un-
conventional but remarkably efficient art
school Rayner Hoff runs at East Sydney
Tech., and his contributions to that
school’s annual shows have won praise
on this page in
earlier years. The
youngster is an
ultra-modernist in
the true sense, in
that he finds his
inspiration m
things that are
essentially the pro-
ducts of his own
day and genera-
tion. At sea or on
the waterfront he
revels in the latest
warships and the
latest liners, the
smart contours of
racing yachts on
the slips or the
fantastic silhouette
of a coal-con-
veyor. If he goes
ashore he finds
pictures in oiltanks and flourmills.
Norton’s pencil drawings alone estab-
lish him as a sound draughtsman, a
master of perspective and the possessor
of expert knowledge of his subjects. His
oil paintings are vigorous and strong in
color ; his posters are as pleasing as they
are striking. Reproduced here is a little
monochrome wash drawing of the Strath-
naver which says, for itself, more about
Norton’s work than three pages of letter-
press could convey.
•j*
Another of those clever Maorilanders
is Gwen Nelson, whose water-colors
hang in the Macquarie Gallery, Sydney.
She has the primary virtues of the good
water-colorist: keeps her washes clean,
bright and transparent, composes neatly
and has a good sense of color. Her
terrain for this show covers Maori-
land, Sydney and the country there-
about, and rural England, with one
or two bits from the middle of Europe.
The glimpses she gives of her home-
land are calculated to give its exiles
in Sydney a pang of regret, but her im-
pressions of Sydney, whose charm and
beauty she sees with fresh eyes, will re-
concile them to their lot. Only a new-
comer would tackle such a subject as
“A Street in Bondi.” Only the confirmed
Sydneysider would be surprised to find
that it contains all the elements of a
good picture.
•b "b •b <b
At Preece’s gallery, Adelaide, Neville
Cayley comes out, after an interval of
over 10 years, with a one-man show of
his bird studies, more commonly seen
nowadays in books. They are exquisite
in finish, showing Japanese influence plus
a consummate knowledge of detail.
Specially attractive are the action
glimpses in which the bird is doing some-
thing, instead of merely sitting for his
portrait.


&
9?
&
&
A*
(Ts
&
a*
111 1
in
1" 1
<s
as
vv
<o
<5
CS
mi
&
m
$
&
s.
#>
*
$
©
<m
/
'4
©
❖
. . . then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
"THE WENTWORTH"
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann. 16-20 Bridge St.. Sydney.
BRANDMJER’S
V#
*
6<r.v
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANPAUER & CO. Ltd., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
Est. 1818.
THE GENUINE DANISH
HEERING’S
CHERRY
BRANDY
THE LIQUEUR FOR
THE DISCRIMINATING PALATE.
When you call for Cherry
Brandy, see that you get
Heering’s.
Supplied by all Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Stores in Bottles and * Bottles.
If any difficulty in obtaining supplies, please
refer to the Sole Australian Agents,
SWIFT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The city has had some really swagger
visitors. They were Sir Edward and Lady
Harding and the Marquess and
Marchioness of Hartington. Early in the
week Mayoress Parkes got out her best
teaspoons in honor of Lady Harding ;
the Victoria League and the Royal Em-
pire Society gave a lunch in the Australia,
at which the. Hartingtons, the Hardys,
and High Commissioner for the U.K.
Geoffrey Whiskard and his lady were
stars at the official table. Around them
were the Hugh Denisons, Miss Mac-
arthur Onslow, the Premier, Archbishop
Mowll, Mayoress Parkes, the Kelso
Kings and lesser constellations. The
N.C.W. also put on a corroboree for
Lady Hartington, whose husband is Par-
liamentary Under-Secretary for the
Dominions. S’Edward is Permanent
Under-Secretary.
There was a real admiral to open
Frank Norton’s show in the Macleod
Gallery, and the whole chorus from
“Pinafore” wouldn’t have been out of
place with the marine subjects that
brought to the walls what Shakspeare
calls “the tumbling billows of the main,”
likewise ships at the Quay and in dock.
Here are the H.M.A.S. Brisbane and
the R.M.S. Orion. The speech was an
achievement. Rear-Admiral Lane-Poole
compassed the story of marine art from
the times when the Dutch painters
climbed the rigging to get detail they
wanted, or sat painting a sea fight though
the cannon were like to shiver the
timbers under them. He contrasted the
rich embellishments of Drake's and
Nelson’s ships and the Spanish galleons
with the utilitarian line of the warship
of to-day, and ended: “But whatever the
sea takes to herself she turns to beauty.”
The artist’s proud mother, father,
grandfather and sister were there. “Frank
made his first color picture when he was
three,” said Mrs. Norton. “We lived at
Gisborne in Maoriland then. One day
we found him in the garden with a white
sheet of paper and the blue bag. He was
making a picture of the sky and the sea.”
Will Ashton and Charlie Bryant came to
offer praise. John Lane Mullins was
with the Charlie Lloyd Jones couple;
groups of young artists and students
came and went. The Orient company’s
Mr. Tadgell introduced the admiral.
Johnny Sands was a gazer; so was Mrs.
Will Ashton, her blue outfit running to
highlights of yellow gloves and hand-
bag. Anne Lane-Poole allied a Burn-
Jones expression and a natty bolero cos-
tume. in horizon blue finished with a
swathed sash of two colors.
The Governor-General of New Cale-
donia, on his way to Noumea, has been
made much of by the French com-
munity in Sydney. The Consul-General
Suzors gave a Sunday afternoon party in
his honor. This was attended by the
usual array of Consuls and French
notables, but daughter Jeanne was not
present, having been separated from her
appendix a few days before. Mrs.
Suzor’s frock was of flower-patterned
crepes, Mrs. E. Meyer’s afternoon frock
was black, Mrs. Ivy Moore’s navy en-
semble had a white jabot. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly wore with her blue suit a toque
that was mostly violets. Another party
at' which New Caledonia’s G.-G. heard
his native tongue was the dinner of the
Amities Francises. This was served in
Elizabeth Bay House, all decked for the
occasion in tricolor flowers —del-
phinium, red roses and November lilies.
The Consul-General for France flew
down from Canberra to be in time for
the dinner. In the Federal Capital he
had just signed the trade treaty between
France and Australia. The King and
the President were toasted with equal en-
thusiasm. During the evening France’s
C.-G. presented Belgium’s Consul-General
Segaert with the Tunisian Order of
Grand Officer of Nichan Iftikhar. This is
a very handsome plaque, all silver and
diamonds, with a green enamel centre.
A revel that was a revel helped the
funds of the Boys’ Brigade last Saturday
night. The grounds of the George Julius
home at Darling Point were turned into
a place of gay streamers and elec-
trics that twinkled at a superb moon,
and in a little theatre in the grounds
period plays in costume were presented.
The knight’s model electric city was in
full cry, and hunger could be satisfied
at an oyster bar and a hot-dog and
coffee stall. Speedboats went dashing
across the moonlit waters of the harbor
from the wharf to which the terraced
grounds slope. The Julius lady is presi-
dent of the organising committee, and
helping her were the Owen, King and
Budge ladies, Mrs. Garnet Halloran,
Mrs. J. L. Ruthven and other enthusiasts.
What with the four dozen new pianos
presented by Nicholson’s to the Con.
recently and the scholarship handed
over by the Music Advancement Society,
Con. Director Edgar Bainton is going
to have a pretty full Christmas stock-
ing. The scholarship is the third pro-
vided by this group of music-lovers, of
which Josephine Marks is the president.
Last week at the Carlton the members
had a great reunion. There, were almost
200 listeners to a programme given by
Frank Hutchens, Virginia Bassetti, Inez
Lang, J. L. Walters and Montgomery
Stuart. Miss Marks’s hat was unusual.
Beret in shape, it was of alternate bands
of black and white. Her long afternoon
frock was black, her flowers red roses.
The Alexander Gordon lady, patroness
and guest of honor, also in black, took
home a sheaf of white and rose gladioli.
Mrs. Ulric McEvilly was there ; so were
Mrs. A. Ebden, Ivan Menzies and Mary
Kenny.
Bob, the independent canine of King’s
Cross, who owns no special master but
is the friend of all his world, is to be
given a birthday party. His eighth birth-
day will be greeted with yelps of con-
gratulation at the dogs’ gymkhana to be
held by the R.S.P.C.A. at Ravenswood
College Oval, Gordon, on Saturday.
There are silver cups to be won by the
dog with the longest tail, by the dog
with the shortest, by the largest, the
smallest, the dog with the most appealing
eyes, and almost every known sort of
dog. There will also be a large cake
filled with bones. Mrs. J. B. Stevenson,
wife of Rear-Admiral Stevenson, is presi-
dent of the committee. Dorothy Welding
photograph.
The Mikado and his subjects twirl and
.wave and snap their fans at the Royal
this week. For Saturday’s opening both
matinee, and evening performances were
crowded out. The very young and the
midways are still following with avidity
the extravagances of Gilbert’s mind, the
charm of Sullivan’s music. On Saturday
night one box was packed with men
only. In the half-lights it suggested the
blackbirds popping out of the famous
pie.
Theo Cowan has studied and modelled
the platypus, and now, with the native
bear and the ’roo, he adorns her bowls
and vases. An exhibition of the sculptor’s
work brought friends and admirers to
the Women’s Club last Thursday. Mrs.
Hugh Ward made, straight for the richly-
blue native-bear decorated porch basket.
This was one of the show pieces. Mrs.
Crawford Robertson was a smart dresser
and a warm admirer; Mrs. Nelson Cox
came with a party of friends; Dr. Con-
stance D’Arcy and Grace Scobie ex-
plored in company. Exquisitely modelled,
a head of Lamia, the snake woman of
Keats’s poem who fell into a swooning
love of Lycius, drew the gaze of all.
Gilsullivan has become so social that
now we are. having a weekly G. and S. tea
party. Vinia de Loitte (or, to rightly
name her, the Comtesse de Vilme-Haut-
mont), who, as a teen-old, toured Aus-
tralia in many of the leading roles, was
hostess at the first party. The guests
were Evelyn Hall and Richard Watson,
and in the most informal fashion they
added to the fun with a duet from “Rud-
digore.” Vere Mathew’s club was gar-
landed with roses and brilliant with
spears of gladioli. Vinia, who wore a
slimly-tailored frock of black crepe and a
smart black hat with a coy veil, played
and sang airs from “The Mikado.” She
also played extracts from the G. and S.
works while the tea-drinkers wrote down
titles and source. The winner of the
competition was Norma Maurice, who
had early booked for the season. A
bunch of schoolgirls having a bit of fun
after a session with the intermediate put
a lot of the older ones to shame with
their knowledge of the operas.
This is Nola Warren, the. Vaucluse girl
who starred in Zane Grey’s “White
Death,” and for whom that writer pre-
diets a brilliant lilm future. Nola is one
of the enthusiastic workers for Dalwood,
and at present is busy helping with ar-
rangements to make Christmas the usual
happy time for the babies. Lupton photo.
When people sang, before crooning
was in favor, Albert Mallinson’s songs
were known the world over. They still
are favorites with music-lovers, and his
“Snowflakes,” “Four by the Clock,”
“Eleanore” and others of his 400 works
don’t gather much dust on the music-
shop shelves. The composer, who is in
Sydney examining for Trinity College of
Music, London, was the guest of the
Musical Association last week. The
affair, staged by the. women’s social
committee, was booked out days before,
and the Carlton presented a spirited if
somewhat congested scene on the night
of the party. The drawing-cards were
the composer’s lecture and the singing
of groups of his songs by Virginia Bas-
setti, Leonore Gotsch and Stanley
Clarkson. Mrs. Hope Gibson, wearing
a frock of primrose green, received. The.
Conservatorium Baintons were there, and
the Bertie Kellys and Mrs. W. J. Cleary.
Alice Prowse was handsome in black
marquisette.
Grace Stafford, a beautifully modu-
lated voice in a frock pink as a rock
crystal, was justly pleased with the pro-
duction of “Murder in the Cathedral.”
The poetic drama by T. S. Eliot told of
the murder of Thomas a Becket in the.
cathedral of Canterbury. There was,
after the manner of the Greeks, a chorus.
These were the hard-working women of
Canterbury, whose eyes evidently were
not too down-bent to know the value of
color. Melting blue, olive green, grey,
with a flash here and there of red, were
their gowns and hoods. They looked
picturesque and probably knew it, though
a layer or two more of talc upon the
bare feet might be an improvement.
Lawyer Desmond O’Connor was the
slim, black-robed a Becket, his many-
cadenced voice getting every value, out
of the lines. Another man of law in the
cast was John McCaffrey, who was first
a tempter and then one of the fell
knights. St. James’s Hall was packed,
little gallery and all. Greek Consul-
General Kocotakis was in the audience.
Later Grace Stafford and Diana Reeve,
who produced the success, entertained the
players and friends at Hillier’s.
Mrs. Harold Weigall and the other
committee members running the Christ-
mas-cake competition for the Day Nur-
series have been wandering through foot-
hills and snowy Everests of entries.
Finally the first prize was awarded to
Mrs. Anne Shearer, who lives near
Singleton. Mrs. F. H. Alford, of
Canowindrie, gets the second. Two lads
who are learning to be chefs came among
the half-guinea winners. One of the boys
lives at Banksia, the other at Rozelle.
From every suburb the entries came.
The cook in a Darling Point home and
the sister of a Darlinghurst doctor were
among those awarded minor prizes.
This Letter met a noted woman sur-
geon the other day, and the talk turned
on modern anaesthetics, their efficacy
and almost complete absence of after-
effects. As example, the medico told of
a well-known young man of the city (a
student at St. John’s) who was stricken
with acute appendicitis the day before
his pathology exam. There was nothing
to be done but operate. Twenty minutes
from the time he started to take the
anaesthetic the patient was making com-
ments on current events, and the follow-
ing morning, propped by pillows, he
tackled his paper.
A Dorville linen suit that had its
swagger coat slit at the back as well as
in the front was one of the attractions
at Anthony Horderns’ fashion tea, which
brought women by the hundred last Fri-
day to the Trocadero. The coat was
finished with a black, red and white plaid
scarf that hung like a cowl, and it had
the elbow sleeve that is known as the
Gibson Girl. A cool frock in black
sheer had round collar and cuffs in
primrose yellow organdie to match its
yellow dots. A narrow scallop of the
yellow organdie ran from neck to hem-
line. The buttons down its front were
yellow daisies with black centres. With
this went a hat of tailored line, trimmed
with grosgrain ribbon. Elaine Hammill,
Alathea Siddons, Mrs. McKell, Audray
Connell and Marie Jack displayed the
glad raiment and walked with rhythm
across the shining depths of floor. Elaine
Hammill did her proudest turn in a white
pique evening frock. This had an Eton
jacket with Gibson Girl sleeves. Its full
skirt had wavy insets of organdie. At the
waist were white organdie poppies with
black centres. On her golden and curled
topknot were two white pique flowers.
If you had got out of bed on the wrong
side last Thursday and felt that every
man’s hand was against you Sydney had
an effective tonic to offer in the exhibi-
tion of handicrafts by crippled children.
These were displayed in the State
Assembly, and many of the 70 little, girls
and boys were there, radiant when they
heard praise of their own or their
friends’ work. Women workers for the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children
had arranged the display, which was
opened by the Alexander Gordon lady.
Here were toys, flower sprays, pottery,
etchings, strong and well-turned little
chairs. The money from the sale went
to the children.


thebigTowboyhatl
gd
Picture shows have made us familiar with
the graceful Cowboy Hat. Its free and
Ktasy style suits everyone and its light
makes it very comfortable for hot'
weather. Makes girls look charming. Its l
closely woven fibre is wonderfully tough'
and will stand the roughest usage; it cam
ibe knocked about freely without injury Fits any head.
kjust the thing for the seaside and for working in the sun,
(for sportsmen, anglers, gardeners, etc. Only 1/9, post free.
I THE UNION MFG. CO., 299 Elizaoeth St„ Melb., C.l.
hort Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I* C. S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street. Svdnev
GIVE YOUR BOY A
MODEL
MONOPLANE
FOR XMAS!
m
Thousands of airminded boys have derived much enjoyment from constructing
and flying the “Mirror” model monoplane. The kit, complete with all parts and
diagrams, costs 45., and makes an admirable Christmas gift for a boy. Send
4s. in postal notes to: —
MONOPLANE SPECIAL XMAS OFFER,
“Woman’s Mirror,”
252 George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
For Henley 1936 long fluttering dresses
fought a losing battle with plain tailored
suits, feminine flounces were usurped by
rows of militant buttons, parasols were
not very popular, handbags were carried
by bone or glass handles and large hats
risked their lives in the high wind. The
temperature dropped 26 degrees in two
hours, so that lightly-clad women who
clung to their hats and their curls in the
warm north wind at midday were later
seeking hot tea rather than the tinkle
of iced drinks. There were all the usual
crowd, the same sale of toy sticks and
kewpies at Flinders-street station, tha
same decorated houseboats, canoes filled
with cushions, recumbent girls and solo
paddling crews of young men. There
was no rain to damage the afternoon or
spoil the fireworks of the evening.
Unfortunately Dr. W. I. Mackintosh
was unable, through sudden serious ill-
ness, to be present at No. 9 Darling-
street for the party he had been instru-
mental in organising for St. George’s C.
of E. Hospital in Kew. This year the
function, which will benefit principally a
new operating-theatre, took the form of
dancing preceded by moving pictures.
Dr. Frank Tate, who worked the pro-
jector, uses his cinematograph hobby for
both business and pleasure, for he shows
medical films to his colleagues as well
as library films and glimpses of his own
travels to his friends.
Present at the party, and looking
rather lonely in spite of his congratu-
lations, was Dr. Lindsay Inglis, whose
wife and sturdy second son, aged three
days, were at the time at St. George’s.
Dr. and Mrs. Walter Summons were
there, she with pink carnations upon an
ash-rose frock. When caps and leis
came on the scene. Dr. Eccles Mac Kay
made himself still taller with bright
orange headgear. Mrs. Mac Kay had
pie-dish frills to her black velvet cape.
Among others were. Mrs. Cedric Roach,
in silver lame, accompanying her medi-
cal husband, who firmly believes that a
doctor could make a better job of a tailed
suit than a tailor, for he’d give it more
pockets and less ankle room. Phyllis
Macartney, off back to Sydney this week,
looked elegantly slim in her flowered
satin. Present also were Dr. Winifred
Kennon in beige lace, Mrs. Bill Mack-
intosh in a floral gown with a classically
high waistline and Mrs. L. Brennan,
who is looking forward to an after-
Christmas riding holiday over the Alps
with her brother Kevin and some
friends.
At the International Club party in
honor of Mrs. Herbert' Brookes there
was a presentation to the guest
of honor of a gilt basket' of Christmas
lilies and berries, as well as a hand-
worked leather folder containing the
names and good wishes of members.
Hon. sec. Mrs. M. R. McMillan received
a folder with several pages of foreign
signatures. A summery figure who helped
pass cups and plates round the buffet
table Was Mrs. A. W. Foster, whose, tea-
rose pink frock was crisp at the neck
with organdie. She came on from the
Fine Art's Gallery, where her judiciary
husband had opened the poster com-
petition display arranged by the Vic-
torian Council for the. World Peace
Congress. A between-seasons guest was
Reba Shearer, all in navy-blue, her tunic
embroidered in white moons, wearing
trinkets collected on her recent Oriental
holiday. Her bangle of Chinese silver
came from Pekin and her “culture” pearl
ring from Japan.
A figure in wintry tweeds was Mrs.
A. C. Pratt, who gave away in a whisper
the State, secret from Hong Kong that
her son Alec now weighs 15 stone. Re-
cently Alec, who is editor of the Hong
Kong “Daily Press,” went to a charity
dance where for a dollar a dance the
men could waltz and foxtrot with
Chinese film stars. He paid up his
dollars from a sense of duty.
Two young Air Force officers who left
yesterday (Tuesday) for England and
special courses of study in their profes-
sions were Flight-Lieut. Murdoch, who
is to specialise in navigation, and Flying-
Officer Charlton, who has been selected
to absorb the latest developments in
photography. Among farewell parties
which the popular pair attended was a
late-afternoon gathering arranged by the
O. R. Charlton couple at the New Alex-
ander, East St. Kilda, where the rooms
were packed with two generations of
guests and what looked like the com-
plete R.A.A.F. Seen in the throng were
Col. Murdoch and his wife. The last
time they farewelled son Alistair was
when he sailed off in the Discovery to
look for Lincoln Ellsworth in cold Ant-
arctica. Margaret Shann wore navy
taffeta ornamented with a stitching of
marguerites on the yoke of navy net. In
spite of regular air mails, she and her
fianc6, Flying-Officer Charlton, think
Farnborough is as far from Melbourne
as the moon.
In Athol Shmith’s portrait is Ruth
Browne, president of the Y.A.L. Players’
newly-formed club. The club’s first
effort will be at the Garrick on the
twelfth, “Alice Sit by the Fire,” pro-
duced by Eric Morris, who has acted a
good deal since the days when he used
to compose lyrics for the .Youth and
Laughter productions. To help with the
expenses of their first play the infant
club has been arranging Sunday evening
parties at the homes of Miss Browne,
Sybil Knight, Patsy Henry and Ailsa
Triggs. Donations for admission are ex-
changed for buffet supper and dancing.
Nina Golovina, who, in her pale-gold
lady-in-waiting dress, finished the Blue
Bird divertissement at a few seconds’
notice on Saturday night, is Gladys
Godby, one of the very few English girls
in the co. Everybody in the audience
sympathised with Kirsova, who just man-
aged to complete the first pas de deux
and the Blue Bird solo in the revival of
“Aurora’s Wedding” before falling on
the stage, so naturally that some didn’t
know she had fainted. Judging by the
number of men who immediately slipped
out of the theatre there was medical
advice in plenty for the little ballerina,
who has been looking tired lately owing
to exigencies of many difficult roles, con-
stant rehearsing and insufficient rest.
Among young balletomanes in the
foyer talk was of Mrs. Tom Slaney’s
daughter Beverley, who, as the result of
a telegram, packed up in a hurry and
went to Perth to dance during La Meri’s
Westralian season. Beverley met La
Meri in Melbourne and Sydney, where
she demonstrated to the American the
extent of her training (from Eunice Wes-
ton) and received in return a lot of en-
couragement, including reassurance over
a point that had always worried her, that
she might be too tall for dancing.
In the interval Captain Moffat-Pender
was seen being an attentive husband,
going off in search of lemon-squash for
his wife in the dress-circle. The Nor-
man Cozens couple were there, Mrs.
Cozens in a glitter of silver lame. Valda
Fisher was in magnolia satin ; Mary Guy
Smith had long turquoise earrings to echo
the predominating shade in her puff-
sleeved cloque crepe frock, and Mrs. Hal
Watt’s pigeon-grey gown went with
Arctic foxes. Coolest among the men
was Clive Sewell in his white mess jacket.
Art show habitues went off to Mar-
garet' Mac Lean’s gallery expecting that
“An Exhibition of Indian Pictures by
Lorraine Barber” would materialise in
water-colors and gold leaf, with possibly
a girl artist hovering attractively in the
background. But the show consisted of
camera studies, and Lorraine Barber,
A.R.P.S., turned out to be a he—an
engineer whose work has taken him be-
neath the surface of tourist India for 31
years. He knows Kipling’s country
well, though he never met the bard, is
good at dialects and has on occasions
worn Indian dress and lived as Indian.
He is on friendly terms with Gandhi,
with whom he sometimes has heart-to-
heart discussions on politics, which are
saved from monotony by plenty of jokes,
the Mahatma having, he says, a great
sense of humor. Peter Fleming, the
writer, is another of Gandhi’s pals.
Mr. Barber has lived in Kashmir, and
“The Road to Kola-Noi” and “Road to
Tibet” were photographed on mountain
sides where one slip of a pony’s feet
meant good-bye for ever to that shaggy
little steed. He has stories to tell about
all his camera studies. “An Indian
Christian Church,” designed and built
by himself, would never be recognised
as a church. It has low windows all the
way round so that the worshippers may
look out on marvellous scenery. “The
Playhouse of Akbar’s Wives” has a high
tower where the favorite wife lived in
exalted seclusion, while the 499 also-
rans squabbled in the lower storeys of
the building.
The best story of all, however, Mr.
Barber, who is Melbourne-born, claims
for his grandfather, Thomas Napier, first
magistrate of this city. Thomas, who
had a determined jaw under his thick
whiskers, took his blunderbuss down to
meet the first convict ship which steamed
into Port Phillip Bay and threatened to
blow the heads off the first bunch of
prisoners landed on Victorian soil. His
patience was inexhaustible. He just sat
with the gun between his knees and his
fiery eyes fixed on the ship. Finally, the
captain up-anchored and betook himself
and his charges to Van Diemen’s Land.
Seen through the mesh veil is Sheila
Helpman, an Adelaide visitor to Mel-
bourne, who will be known by the in-
vidious name of Mrs. Goliath Blow in
Gregan McMahon’s production on Satur-
day of ‘"Abraham Lincoln.” Sheila, who
is the daughter of the J. M. Helpmans,
used to be her brother Robert’s dancing
partner until he went off to London and
stepped upwards towards fame as a
dancer, securing long engagements at
Vic. Wells and Sadler’s Wells. Robert,
who for technical reasons attached an
extra “n” to his surname and is usually
billed as plain “Helpmann,” has an envi-
able line or two to himself in Arnold
Haskell’s Prelude to Ballet. Mrs. Help-
man and her daughter are both inter-
ested in the breeding of dogs for show
purposes, but their pets are never rivals
in the same ring. Sheila has chows and
her mother’s prizewinners are Pekes.
Broothorn photo.
Marguerite Callaway Mahood is hold-
ing her fifth annual exhibition of glazed
pottery in Hogan’s Galleries. This year
there are not so many newts, dragons
and hobgoblins as usual. The artist’s
imagination has instead been trained
upon the. graceful filigree of creamy
glazed vases and the rich Spanish lustres
produced by a thin coat of metal fired
over the surface of the glaze. This
difficult process produces a variety of
iridescent glazes on bowls and plaques.
Among the pieces is a portrait mask of
the artist’s father, H. C. Callaway.
Smaller pieces are miniature masks
mounted in silver as pendants, each of
which has been given a romantic name
to suit her inscrutable expression.
Mrs. Mahood, who followed up her
National Gallery training by expressing
her imagination in paintings before she
thought about pottery, has included some
black-and-whites and water-colors to add
variety to the show. She is a very in-
dustrious pottery worker, sometimes on
her job for 14 hours a day. Her kilns,
built on to the back of their home at
Kew by her husband, are slightly un-
comfortable neighbors during Mel-
bourne’s few weeks of summer, but very
pleasant company throughout the rest
of the year.
A quintet of modernists —Edith Moore,
Moya Carey* Kath Howitt, Reg Cordia
and W. A. Dargie—have amalgamated
for exhibition purposes and are showing
some of their pictures and sculpture in a
setting of modern home furniture over
Riddell’s. “Terms may be arranged” is
aq appendix to the catalogue. Miss
Moore, who studied sculpture in London
with ultra-modern Henry Moore, says
that even Epstein sells himself on time-
payment. She and Moya Carey, of the
soft Irish brogue, are planning art
classes for children, which should be
among the jolliest lessons of the week
for the youngsters, for freedom and in-
dividuality is to be the keynote of the
lessons. Kath Howitt, who specialises
in flower paintings, looks a very spick
and span and chic artist with her dark
hair sleekly parted in the centre. Dargie,
the other painter of the group, still wears
his golden beard. Dargie does some in-
teresting work, but ordinary mortals and
middle brows are not educated up to
understanding what he means by cutting
the heads off two of the ballerinas in
one of his sketches entitled “Ballet
Russe.”
Romance has come upon a couple of
artistically-minded people, Ada Freeman
and H. J. Corder, who have announced
their engagement. Miss Freeman was
Nancy Weir’s teacher before that much-
talked-of young pianist left for England
a little over three years ago. Mr. Corder
can appreciate his fiancee’s talents, for
he also is a good pianist. He is gifted
with a flair for languages, and did a bril-
liant course for his M.A. In England
he was on the staff of High Commis-
sioner Joseph Cook.
T. W. Eckersley, winner of the last
Mollison scholarship in Japanese, left
this week to take advantage of his bur-
sary in the Land of the Rising Sun.
Tom is well endowed with social graces,
is passably good looking, always amus-
ing company at a party, likes his clothes
to be just right and was an early buyer
of a Homburg hat. At first his fluent
French and spot of German will prob-
ably be. of more use to him than his
smattering of Japanese, for he realises
that it takes years to learn this difficult
language. As he is very interested in
drama and is himself quite a capable
actor he will lose, no time in commenc-
ing to study Japanese theatres at close
quarters. Prof. Russo, whose head-
quarters are also in Tokio, is sure to be
of great assistance to the young Mel-
bourne student.


Field was extraordinarily good as Portia.
Stacey himself played Shylock, James
Counsel the Duke and Vernon Lee Bas-
sanio.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Napier Registry.)
TO LESLIE BERNARD HERZ (otherwise
Hertz) formerly of Napier Labourer but
whose present address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Napier citing you to appear and answer
the petition of DORCAS PEARL HERZ of
Napier wherein she prays for a dissolution of
her marriage with you on the grounds of sepa-
ration for a period of over three (3) years and
such citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence Now therefore
take notice that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within thirty (30) days after the date of
this publication to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court office at Napier
and there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings. A copy of the
said citation and petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court office at Napier.
DATED this 16th day of November, 1936.
P. MARTIN,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
STANLEY HERBERT MORRISON is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said STANLEY
HERBERT MORRISON in Herschell Street,
Napier.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1737 of 1936.
BETWEEN ETHEL VARTY (formerly Ethel
Osborne) Petitioner
And WILLIAM VARTY Respondent.
TO WILLIAM VARTY late of Liverpool New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL
VARTY has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twenty-second day of February next and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of November,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON.
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
TIGHE, JONES & JONES, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, River Street, Ballina; by their
Agents, TEECE, HODGSON & CO., 2 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1684 of 1936.
BETWEEN PAULINE ZILLA OSBORNE
Petitioner „
And JAMES WINDSOR OSBORNE Re-
spondent.
TO JAMES WINDSOR OSBORNE formerly
of Woodburn and Jiggi in the State of
New South Wales. TT
TAKE NOTICE that the said PAULINE
ZILLA OSBORNE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Hon-
orable Court on or before the Twenty-second
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge. _
DATED this 23rd day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk
P H ROACHE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
6AM
Legal Notice.
IN THE WILL OF ROBERT SMITH late of
Cowra in the State of New South Wales
Farmer and Grazier deceased. .
ANYONE knowing the present whereabouts
of or having any information regarding the
relatives of the abovenamed or his sister Esther
Smith now or formerly the wife of John Mellin
or somewhat similar name or his stepsisters
Mary Jane and Emma daughters of his mother
Mary Smith who married a second time a man
named Kew or Que or a name ot similar
sound and-who died at Tenterfield New South
Wales please communicate with the undersigned.
W J. GOLSBY, Solicitor,
Box 47, P. 0., Cowra.
Personal and Missing Friends.
INFORMATION WANTED concerning the
present whereabouts of the children or descen-
dants of the children of WILLIAM WHITE,
who formerly resided at No. 12 Lochend Close,
Canongate, Edinburgh, Scotland, and who emi-
grated to Australia many years ago. Will any
person having information regarding the above
communicate with William Sh ar P> Chartered
Accountant, 243 West George Street, Glasgow,
Scotland?
WILL any person knowing anything of the
present whereabouts or alternatively of the death
of WILLIAM DAVID KLUNDER (otherwise
known as WILLIAM DAVID), who was from
about 1918 to 1921 employed as a canecutter
at Innisfail, Queensland, and was last heard
of in Sydney in January, 1922, please communi-
cate with the undersigned?
R. J. CROWE,
Solicitor, Charlton, Victoria.
TO WILLIAM COUCH.—WILLIAM COUCH,
a nephew of one William Couch, formerly ot
Sandietown, near Timaru, New Zealand, is re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned
for the purpose of claiming a legacy bequeathed
to him in the will of Patrick Mechen, late ot
Timaru, deceased.
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised aie those at. which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
HUGH WALPOLE’S
NEW NOVEL
A PRAYER FOR MY SON
(Colonial Edition)
In his latest novel, Mr. Walpole
returns once more to the Lake District
and this time the contemporary scene
is placed in the neighborhood of
Keswick and Lake Derwentwater that
he loves so dearly. It is first' and
foremost the story of a mother s
attempt to rescue her small son and
of the growth of the love between
them. Beginning slowly, it develops
into an exciting narrative. The
theme is treated poetically with Mr.
Walpole’s customary mingling of
beauty and terror.
THE MALTESE CAT
By RUDYARD KIPLING.
With four plates in color and 24
illustrations in Monochrome by
LIONEL EDWARDS, R.I. 7/6.
GODS WHO DIE
The story of Samoa’s Greatest
Adventurer; as told to JULIAN DANA.
With illustrations. Cheaper issue, 1 0/6
In this fascinating book Julian Dana
sets down an amazing story of natives;
of the flourishing of scoundrels; of
the terrifying loneliness; of shipwreck
and brigands, hurricanes and tribal
wars, and of the strange beauty of
the South Seas.
THE GIANT OF OLDRORNE
By JOHN OWEN, author of ‘‘The
Road and the Wood,” etc. New
Edition, 3/6. This i 3 a striking and
romantic Suffolk novel.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
The Examiner Annual, 1936
Tasmania’s Outstanding Pictorial Annual.
1/6
A Galaxy of Scenic Beauty.
ORDER A COPY NOW
from your Newsagent.
Australian Representatives:
Gordon & Gotch (Aust.), Limited.
1/6
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Water-lilies blooming in the pond,
Christmas bush in full flower and garden
flora in its gayest apparel made bright
patches of color against the natural bush
background of the Uni. when James
Mitchell’s lady opened the fete for the
Women’s College fund. Stalls were par-
ticularly attractive, the “Wee Hoose
Amang the Heather” being authenticated
by a shipment of the blossom straight
from Scotland.
Lasses from Mt. Lawley and lads of
the Australian Air League combined to
put on a dance at the Karrakatta Club.
Betty Cuthbert presided over the doings
in brown satin surcharged with stiffened
net, and Mrs. L. Pocklington’s blush-
pink crepes were next to Mrs. A. G.
Eastman’s beige laces in the official guest
pews. Marjorie Sinclair slipped a blue-
and-white check chiffon coat over king
blue satin, Merle Hand covered floral
cloque with a biscuit lace tunic, Bernice
Murray’s parchment taffetas were coin-
spotted, a long net coat billowed about
Kim Saunders’s scarlet velvets and Joan
Healy combined blue, grey and silver
in her .plaid silks.
With many Christmas-carnival horses
racing at headquarters, punters turned
up in force. Headgear was diverse.
Tyrolean cones marching next Mexican
sombreros and Breton sailors alongside
Jack Tars, with an occasional Belle of
New York bonnet as extra measure. Miss
Northmore’s navy straw was finished
with a white quill to match her figured
silks; Beatrice Handschin’s navy-blue
braid affair topped navy-and-white
beaded taffeta, and Mrs. J. C. Murray’s
scarlet straw toned with the bolero jacket
worn with her black-and-white crepes.
Mrs. E. P. Loeffler topped floral foulard
with a veiled toque. Mrs. Raymond
Cruick shank’s raspberry ensemble was
finely wrought with gold beads, and Elsie
Forrest’s crisp pink lines had a hat to
match.
Close on the heels of the Royal
Schools’ Music Club’s annual meeting,
Mrs. Cecil Mason, who was re-elected
president, entertained members at her flat
in Padbury House. Lioness of the party
was Hilda Black, whose coming marriage
was duly honored.
Local playwright E. Marchant Flynn’s
“Travail” was the Rep. Soc.’s latest offer-
ing to members, who called lustily for
the author at the close of the play. The
terror of the Inquisition, menacing toll
of the deathknell, conspiracy of heretics
and a soul-tearing struggle ’twixt love
and duty were enacted in an admirable
setting made possible by new flats and
ceiling-cloth and producer Mrs. Hubert
Momber’s happy choice of furnishings.
Roger Merryman, Dorothy Mark and
Tom Tracy bore the brunt of the work,
with able assistance from Colin Mac-
lagan, Norrie John, Bob Hayes and Ken
Dunn.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Flying Corps Ball at the Palais
Royal drew a large crowd. The Harbor
Lights Guild joined forces, as proceeds
were in aid of the Seamen’s Mission. The
Governor and Lady Dugan were received
by Dr. McDonald Moore, representing
the corps, and Miss Waite, president of
the guild. Lady Dugan looked well in a
Parma violet georgette, the wing sleeves
lined with fuchsia. Over it a coat of
silver tissue was worn. She carried a
bouquet of pale-pink roses and pale-blue
larkspur. Miss Waite chose beige lace
fitting to the figure, Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward’s wine-toned lace had a cape effect.
Her niece, Mary de Gruchy (Jersey),
sported white satin beaute.
The St. John Ambulancers gave an
afternoon-tea at the South Australian to
entertain Lady Elibank, who is Dame of
Justice of the Order of St. John of Jeru-
salem. The guests were presented to
Lady Elibank by Mrs. S. L. Dawkins,
wife of the commissioner of the brigade.
Lady Elibank brought a message from the
Sub-Prior (the. Earl of Scarborough) that
Dr. Dawkins had been made a Knight of
Grace of the Order.
Mrs. W. E. Acraman, North Adelaide,
is looking forward to having all her
family with her for the New Year. Her
daughter Patricia (Mrs. Henry Glover),
with her husband, will come from Bom-
bay. From Bombay also comes son Bill.
Another daughter, Nancy (Mrs. N. V.
McKenna), with her medico husband, is
to travel from Wau, New Guinea.
A fresh batch of delegates has been
sojourning with us. The S.A. members
of the Institute of Incorporated Secre-
taries entertained the Federal president,
L Bowmer, and other delegates from
Melbourne and Sydney. The Adelaide
president, H. C. Thomas, received the
guests at the Mount Osmond Country
Club.
Also in our midst have been delegates
to the Gas Conference. Most of them
were accompanied by their wives, who
had a great time. After a luncheon at
the South Australian, when their hostess
was Mrs. Gerald O’Dea, wife of the
S.A. Gas Co.’s g.m., the party motored to
the residence of F. G. Scarfe at Stirling
for afternoon-tea, Mrs. Clifford Deeley
acting as hostess for her father. Later
the party returned to the city and en-
joyed cocktails at the O’Dea home, Glen
Osmond.
The new wing of Adelaide Art Gal-
lery, named after The Bulletin’s old
friend Alex. Melrose, who has given
£lO,OOO towards its cost, opens with a
centenary show, in which the Pioneers’
Association and its archives combine to
produce treasures from the past. Cap-
tain White, Travers Borrow and other
descendants of earliest settlers have also
unearthed some surprising things. Thus
exhibits vary from a primeval printing-
press, whaling-pots and women’s cos-
tumes to auctioneers’ advts. and satin
programmes of race meeting or ball.
Portraits and early street scenes, of
course, abound. Light, the founder, was
himself a very fair artist. Striking ex-
hibits are the original English Act of
Parliament (steered through the Lords
by the Duke of Wellington) which
authorised this new province, and a curt
proclamation by the original “Commis-
sioners” that the public need not worry
about the dismissal of a high official by
the Governor (Hindmarsh), as they dis-
allowed it. All the skeleton of local his-
tory is here for romancers to build upon.
The Russian Ballet left behind in Adel-
aide a promising member, Mira Dimina,
who broke down during the season there
unexpectedly. She was in reality Made-
line Parker, a young American. Several
of the principals made a hurried trip to
Adelaide for her funeral. Pernicious
anaemia was the trouble.
TASMANIA.
Attendance might have been better at
Newnham races, Launceston ; but the sun
shone brightly. The club president (A. E.
Pepper), the Guy Merediths, the Andrew
Raeburns, the F. F. Fairthornes, the J.
Vranisans (with daughters three, Marie,
Marcia and Delia), the C. Headlams, Dr.
and Mrs. Turnbull, Dr. G. E. Clemons,
Dr. Grounds, the Alan Stewarts, Miss
Quigley, Mrs. Charlie Martin, Mrs. Noel
Browne, Mrs. H. I. Dean, Mrs. R. Green,
the C. Ritchies and Mrs. B. Percy-Dove
were among those at the meeting.
Hadley’s big lounge was crowded
with women for Mrs. Lyne’s welcome-
home party for Lilias and for Mrs. Petrie
Hay, who, as Dolly Counsel, was one of
Hobart’s most popular girls, and whose
old friends are delighted to see her again.
The weather was vile, but pretty frocks
emerged from under mackintoshes and
heavy coats.
Mary Harbottle’s wedding with Lieut.-
Commander Emile Dechaineux was one
of the prettiest ever seen at St. David’s
Cathedral. It being a naval wedding, the
arch of crossed swords was a feature.
Bishop Snowdon Hay tied the knot. The
bride’s dress of deep magnolia satin, with
overdress made on tailored lines of net
in the same color, had long sleeves, full
at the top, and from the Peter Pan collar
a little row of satin-covered buttons ran
right to the kneeline, where rows of frills
began and extended round the edge of
the train.
Among hostesses who invited bride-to-
be Mary Harbottle to sherry parties,
buffet luncheons, tea-parties and handker-
chief afternoons were Pat Walch, Mrs.
Lester McAulay, Lilia Clive, Peggy Dick,
Sybil Lyons and the Phil Waterworths.
Mrs. F. X. de Bavay’s friends are en-
tertaining her after her European trip,
and Mrs. Alan Miller’s sherry party was
one of the smartest of these shivoos.
The hostess was in navy and white, and
Mrs. de Bavay’s grey tailored suit was
worn with a long silver-fox stole and a
little crocheted black cap with a big pom-
pom over one eye.
The private golf links at Ellesmere,
Jericho, have been reopened after several
years. There was a big muster on the
opening day. The Rex O’Kellys, who
now occupy Mrs. J. G. Mitchell’s country
home, Ellesmere, helped Mrs. Mitchell
do the honors. His Ex. drove the first
ball. Lady Clark and Mrs. Stewart
Baker were there.
The Shakspeare Society put on “The
Merchant of Venice” at the Theatre
Royal, under the management of
Hobart’s old theatrical identity, E. A.
Stacey, with huge success. Mrs. Nona


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
Champions help to end
FUEL WASTE
New Champion Sparking Plugs help you to
get full power and economy from every drop
of petrol. Don't blow good fuel money away
in smoke. Install new Champions once every
year. They pay for themselves in the fuel they
save.
i
mpj 0
m
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADEIN WINDSOR. CANADA
BY
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., /AelboumM
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane-'
ta-tr-ZOuvp*
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Macalister Blain, the Federal
member for the N.T., gave a dinner
in Sydney on November 27. One
of Sydney’s leading chefs prepared it,
and every bit of it except the wines,
which came from S. Australia, was
from the N.T. It was brought down
in dry ice by Qantas. The menu,
headed by a Frith drawing of Blain
feeding half a dozen abos. with carpet-
snake, included oysters from Baino
Harbor, barramundi served whole —•
it was labelled “Roper Whitebait” —
buffalo tongues, beef from Brunette,
geese and ducks from various billabongs,
peanuts from the Daly River. Guests in-
cluded the presidents of the N. S. Wales
Employers’ and Manufacturers’ Associa-
tions, representatives of Sydney City
Council and of food-distributing in-
terests, and doctors interested in tropical
hygiene. Blain, with an exuberance fit-
ting to a member who had
just received a vote on
Northern Territory ordi-
nances* opened with a
short speech in the Mary
River abo. dialect inviting
the guests to eat. The
show altogether created a
deal of interest in N.T.
products.
* * *
“II Vecchio”: The move
to develop Mourilyan
Harbor is far more sen-
sible than the one to build
the million-pound sea
corral at Mackay. Mouril-
yan ranks with Sydney
Harbor in beauty. It is
almost completely land-
locked, and it serves
a district which has gone
ahead faster since the war
than any other in Aus-
tralia. Behind Mourilyan
are rich sugar lands,
rivers full of game and
the picturesque Bellenden
Kers —some of the finest
mountain scenery on the
continent. The scrubs are
falling quickly along the
places where only the carpet-snake and
the wallaby lived 20 years ago, and there
are thriving towns. In part of a reclaimed
scrub area, where there were 300 people
just after the war, there are now neariy
4000. It will not be surprising if Inn;s-
fail, which is one of the richest towns in
the Commonwealth, outstrips most of
the other towns of the North in popula-
tion in the next 25 years.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The burning of Bunda-
berg (Q.) rum foundry and the conse-
quent flow of Nelson’s blood into the
Mary River made Sunday, November
22, 1936, a day that will not soon be
forgotten by local anglers. Rum and
fish —the essential ingredients in any
fishing party—were both to be had by
merely reaching out of a dinghy. Un-
fortunately the rum had already been
absorbed by the fish, and the fish could
not hold their liquor like gentlemen.
Thousands of them, including 201 b.
kingfish and barramundi, floated belly
upwards in a helpless state of inebriety,
in which condition they were lifted
into the dinghies. Some far-sighted
souls talked of sending rum-cured fish
to the western areas, but the idea suc-
cumbed to the resultant lethargy after a
diet of the spirit-laden spoil.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Arnhem Land, which is a
country of heavy rainfall and big run-
ning rivers, is going through the worst
drought in modern history. Buffaloes,
horses, kangaroos and cattle are dying,
and rescue parties have saved more than
one marooned camp complement from
death by thirst. Presently it will rain
like fun up on the sandstone, and more
outfits will be marooned for the period
of the summer rains. Millions of tons
of water will then run to waste —but
who cares? There is plenty more water
in the sky, and it will fall down some
time and somewhere. Water supply in
the big cities has been equally short;
using a hose in Brisbane has been such
an offence that when a suburban lady
saw the Law in the offing the other day
she unhesitatingly sat down on the
sprinkler and stayed there pale but firm
until the rattle of handcuffs died away
in the distance.
"Hey, Wait a bit, mister— ’Lijah ain't lookin' at y'."
“X.T.”: Queensland’s new Education
Director, L. D. Edwards, is a lean, hard-
ened northerner who has spent his life
in the department and knows his State
from end to end. Born in the Ipswich
district, he was dux of the Silkstone
(then Newtown) State school, became a
pupil teacher on the Darling Downs in the
late ’nineties, served as head teacher in
several Brisbane suburban State schools,
and when Brisbane High School was
formed became an assistant there, about
the same time taking an honors degree
in arts at Queensland University. For
a couple of years he was acting professor
of philosophy, also doing the job of
inspector of grammar schools. In 1922
he was president of the Teachers’ Union,
and the following year was made chief
inspector of schools. The Carnegie Cor-
poration gave him a trip to Europe and
U.S.A. last year. His successor in the
chief inspectorship is R. M. Riddell,
formerly head of the Central Technical
College and later Deputy-superintendent
of Technical Education.
“Te Babarantiko”: Arthur Macdonald
Hitchfield, dead at Manly (N.S.W.),
traded for copra on Abean, Gilbert
Islands, for the best part of his 64 years.
He had a fine two-storey trading station
in Kuinoutown, “capital” of Abean.
When, in the trading schooner Hercules,
I cruised the Archipelago of the Line in
search of another trading venue and
put into Abean lagoon, a commercial
war was on between the white traders,
and between these and the Chinese
traders and a Hawaiian-Kanaka trader.
It ruined a few, but Hitchfield got
through, to go on dealing until he. sold
out to B.P.
“Australia JaneY’ Budget
The Governor gave the R.S.S.I.L.A.
appeal for funds to provide Diggers in
hospital with Christmas gifts a hearty
shove along with a Sunday evening
broadcast. If ever his Ex. gets tired of
the vice-regal job any radio station
would rush him.
The Chermside Old People’s Home,
where Darby and Joan can spend the
evening of their days together in a snug
cottage, has been officially opened.
George Marchant gave the land and a
generous cash donation. He previously
gave Montrose as a home for crippled
children, and for years has sent' dray-
loads of presents to the Children’s Hos-
pital every Christmas.
The State seems to be waking up to
its responsibilities towards western
children. One batch of ecstatic young-
sters from Boulia (n.-w. Q.) disport them-
selves on Redcliffe sands all day, return-
ing at night to slumber in the Leslie
Wilson home, run by the committee of
the Bush Children’s Health Scheme. An-
other batch from St. George are;, guests
of the metropolitan branch of the C.W’.A.
at Linga Longa, Sandgate.
Mavis Lahey’s wedding to George
Denholm was the first celebrated in St.
Luke’s C. of E., Canungra, a township
which owes its existence;, to the Lahey
clan, whose timber-mills were estab-
lished there in the days when only a
rough bush track led to the top of
Tamborine. Mavis’s brother Romeo
was largely responsible for the pro-
clamation of Roberts and Lamington
Plateaux as a national park. Vida
Lahey, a sister, is one of our best-known
artists. Mavis inherited the family
brains and grit. She was science mis-
tress at the N.E.G.S., Armidale, and met
her husband, purser on the Jervis Bay,
when on a trip to England.
The Bush Children’s Health Scheme
and the Royal Society of Dancing bene-
fited by Pat Mead’s dancing pupils’ dis-
play at the City Hall. It rained, but
after the long “dry” to walk through
wet streets and smell the thirsty earth
was a heavenly prelude to a good shew,
and there was hardly a vacant seat. At
the end of the show A. E. Sharpe handed
over a leather hatbox to Pat from
pupils and parents.
Mrs. Percy Ross, a staunch supporter
of the Playgrounds’ Association, was
guest of honor at a tea given at Parlia-
ment House by Mrs. H. A. Bruce. Mem-
bers of the executive committee were the.
other guests.
Alice Kelly, of Yankalilla, Cunna-
mulla, was married to Roy Clifford
Nelson, son of the A. Nelsons, Gulligal,
Boggabri (N.S.W.), at St. Agatha’s
Church, Clayfield, on November 25. The
newly-weds will set up house in Cunna-
mulla (W.Q.).
People flocked to Goondiwindi for the
Cup meeting and for the Diggers’ Ball
arranged by members of the Goondi-
windi R.S.S.I.L.A. and their wives. Betty
Cowan and Alda McCarthy were of
those who went up from Brisbane, and
among Sydney visitors were Hester
Holies and Mrs. B. Arnott.
On a fishing trip to Heron Island the.
Governor and Lady Wilson were accom-
panied by British High Commissioner
Geoffrey Whiskard and his lady. Arch-
bishop Wand was also in the party ; so
were Mrs. F. Bell and daughters Cecil
and Orme.
The Bruce Shearers are off early next
year on a trip to England and Europe.
Mrs. Shearer is a leading member of
the Arts and Crafts Society and a
worker for children’s organisations, so
no doubt pictures taken with the movie
camera that accompanies them will rake
in some funds for the Playgrounds’
Association and the Montrose Children’s
Home when the couple return.
An impatient young man in North
Queensland is following the Spanish war
news with keen interest. His fiancee,
Eunice. Bavin, had an altar date with
him immediately she returned from
Europe, but she decided to look in on
Spain, and now she can’t get out. She
has joined up with a bunch of British
and Australian V.A.Ds. and is doing
hospital work.
Mrs. F. K. Brodribb, patroness of the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association, cele-
brated her birthday by entertaining 14
members of the association at dinner
at the Belle Vue. Mrs. G. R. Faulkner,
wife of the president, was the only other
womanite present. A gold Yale key and
a basket of flowers were presented to the
hostess.
The Cilento lady, president of the
Mothercraft Association, is delighted with
the new mothercraft and baby welfare
home, Craigroyston, looking down on the
river at Bowen Terrace, New Farm. The
first mothercraft home in Brisbane, it
is excellently arranged and equipped.
Members of the Lyceum Club turned
up in full force for their annual book
afternoon for the Queensland Bush Book
Club, and over 100 books were received.
Mrs. Firmin McKinnon, who has been
hon. general sec. of the Bush Book Club
since its foundation, said “thank you”
very gracefully.
The new president of the Town and
Country Women’s Club is Merna Gil-
lies, who acted several times during the.
year for Mrs. Harry Campbell. Ella
Losberg is the new sec.


Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range !
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
So. 3—HOLLIS' “THE RELIABLE’’
J.8.8.L. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
!2in. steel barrels, both cboke, rebounding
ocks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
crip walnut stock. -* /
s rice £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
Vo. 9-CASHMOKE D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
:hoke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
ore-end pistol grip, walnut n /
stock; weight, about 71b..... dLl**/IU/“
Carriage Paid.
Vo. 24— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G-, top lever cross-
>olt, steel barrels, both choke, matted rib,
tarrels and lug one-piece, 32in. barrels,
valnut stock, pistol grip, tested for nitro
aowders; weight, about Sib. /I f\ /
Price Xb/IU/-
Carriage Paid.
A Great Range!
SPORTING RIFLES
COOEY ACE No. 1.—.22 calibre bolt
action, single shot, for short, long or
long-rifle cartridges, genuine walnut
stock, pistol grip, accurate and reliable.
Equipped with safety feature to pre-
vent accident. Length over all, fl-Un.
Barrel, It in. Weight, 341 b. Packed one
in a box. nn /r»
Price
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6,
THE MAINE RIFLE.—. 22 calibre, bolt
action, T backsight; for short, long or
long-rifle cartridges. Round barrel,
18in. long, bored and rifled with the
same care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; weight, about
3*lb. 91 /
Price A / "
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 1A —THE MAINE BE LUXE
RIFLE.—. 22 calibre, bolt action,
similar to No. 1,24 in. barrel, pistol
grip, adjustable rear sight;
weight, about 431 b. orv /
Price «5"/ “
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
WINCHESTER SINGLE-SHOT
RIF• ,35, MODEL 67.—For .22 short,
long or long-rifle rimfire cart-
ridges; 27iu. round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip stock, safety
bolt Mauser type, ladder rear and
metal bead front sight; weight,
about lb. >
Price DU/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
New Stocks Just Landed 1
Unrivalled Range of
MICROSCOPES
Q
Offering at new unheard-of
low price levels. Focusing,
Adjusting and Scientifically
Accurate.
Model Plus 150 magnifica-
tion. 3/- each.
Model Plus 250 magnifica-
tion, 5/- each.
Model Plus 350 magnifica-
tion, 12/6 each.
Model with 3 Objectives
(plus 150, 250 and 450),
l!)/6 each.
Model Plus 550 magnifica-
tion, £2/10/- each.
Model Plus 050 magnifica-
tion. £6/6/- each.
Model Plus 880 magnifica-
tion, £9/10/- each.
(Postage Extra)
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
JIAYMABKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“All That Swagger”
Congratulations! You have published
a great book in a great manner. No
other publication 1 know of would have
done so.
A good many years ago a very young
lady wrote a book, My Brilliant Career.
In All That Swagger, Miss Franklin has
more than realised all that her most fer-
vent admirers expected when they read
that novel of her girlhood. She has
written Australia’s greatest book, clos-
ing with a glorious chapter in which she
voices the vision splendid—the dreams of
a Wentworth, who saw “a new Britannia
in another world” ; of a Parkes, who
saw Australia united, white and free. —
G. B. Holt (N.S.W.).
Australian Caviare
Why doesn’t some enterprising fisher-
man start making Australian caviare from
tunny roes? Tunny is not so different
from sturgeon, and the fact that it is an
ocean-goer and not a denizen of salt
marshes about the Black Sea, the Volga
and Dnieper should give the roes of the
younger females a delicacy which the
sturgeon misses.
Actually, the roes of the tunny are
very like those of the sturgeon. They are
relished by Maoris and Kanaka boys.
Young tunny are also sweet. Lightly
salted, after being carved in thin, sliced
fillets, and cooked with thin wine or
vinegar, tunny fillets are nourishing as
well as tasty —they are rich in gelatine
and vitamin B. Anyway, Australian
caviare would certainly find a market. —
Chloe (N.S.W.).
Case for the N.S.W. Civil Servant
No N.S.W. civil servant asks for his
boom-time salary again (B. 28/10/’36).
He wants just one cut instead of two.
He wants his employer to obey the laws
that bind all other employers—the rul-
ings of the Arbitration Court. He wants
his award wages.
My case will illustrate the point. In
those dark days of depression the basic
wage dropped £39 a year. Government
and other employees alike suffered it.
Then came the financial-emergency
measures, and my salary was clipped
another £6O a year. Mark you, my
salary did not share in the phenomenal
rises of the boom years—it just dropped
and dropped.
After five years we were given 20 p.c.
back, later another 20 p.c. By June,
1937, the salary cut may be no more.
But the basic-wage cut and the wages
tax will be with us as ever. It will be
with every employee inside or outside
the service, but we shall at least feel
the satisfaction of equality.
In the past seven years, against the
overrated security of my job I place
losses of £324 salary cuts, plus £273 basic
wage “adjustment,” plus £7O wages
equivalent to a real loss of two years’
employment at my present rate of pay.
I pay income tax on top of it all.
The Bulletin every week proves
lucidly that Australians carry a crush-
ing load of taxation. It should not with-
hold sympathy from the civil-servant
Australian, who carries a super-tax over
and above his fellow-Aussies just because
his employer is lucky enough to have the
Statute Book at his command.
I ask Mr. Stevens to let me off the
super tax of £35 p.a. He may keep the
£39 a year basic-wage drop and the
wages tax and the income tax and the
rest of them. Is that asking for a return
to “boom-time rates of pay”?— Montrie
(N.S.W.).
Against Restoration
Salary cuts of N. S. Wales civil ser-
vants are to be wholly restored by June
30, 1937, with a first instalment this
month. Premier Stevens is meantime
protesting against the increase in interest
rates, which after all are earnings, some-
times the sole earnings of elderly people
and invalids. There has been no restora-
tion of the 4s. 6d.-in-the-£l cut to
holders of Australian Consols, ; nor is
there likely to be. In the 1920 s Com-
monwealth loans were put out at rates
as high as 6 p.c. Nobody wants to see
those rates again, but it should _be re-
membered that they went hand-m-hand
with the scale of pay N. S. Wales civil
servants will be getting after June 30
next.—K. D. (N.S.W.).
Dumping Stock Food
Another example of the asininity of
the hordes of “economic” restrictions
under which the Queensland sugar indus-
try labors. Co-operative mills in the
Mackay district have been dumping huge
quantities of molasses. Sane distribu-
tion of the stuff would save drought-
stricken stock.
Stockowners —even shareholders in the
mills —have not the money to pay the
price the mills demand, so the animals
starve. It is not in accord with the
canons of “economics” to give them free
what it costs the mills money to get rid
of.— James W. (Q.).
Dunstan —An Appreciation
It may be true that Mr. Dunstan
grabbed the Vic. Premiership by teaming
the Country and Labor parties, but he
rides on the box seat to-day. His major
worry is whether the harmony of the
team can be preserved. Some C.P. nags
are still restless when harnessed with
Labor. According to rumor, there was
actually a plot to dump Mr. Dunstan
had he insisted on going to the electors
on the Leg. Council reform issue.
The C.P. Minister who takes the
leadership while Mr. Dunstan is at the
Coronation will need some of the Pre-
mier’s political shrewdness to avoid
dangers along the road. Whoever does
take the driver’s seat will do so with
political assurances from U.A.P. and
Labor that Mr. Dunstan will not be
“stabbed in the back.”
Mr. Dunstan himself will be back in
time to canvass Bendigo for Canberra
election. He’s an Eaglehawk man, and
his State constituency comprises a large
enough chunk of the Federal division to
give sitting U.A.P. man Harrison plenty
to think about. But Labor also intends
contesting Bendigo.—M. L. (Vic.).
“Most Decidedly!”
“Is it possible for our Air Force to
co-operate with the air force at Singa-
pore?” asked young Mr. McCall during
the debate on the Defence estimates.
When asked to provide rescue ’planes
for two movie actors who had been
lost within 300 miles of the second-big-
gest air base in the Commonwealth, the
Minister of Defence had to reply that
no ’planes were available, since the only
ones which normally were capable of
flying safely 100 miles from the coast
were under repair. But, answering
Mr. McCall, Mr. Parkhill had no hesi-
tation in saying “Most decidedly.”
The truth is that Darwin aerodrome is
unfit for large-scale war-time aerial
operations ; that Singapore is as far from
Darwin as Constantinople is from
London; that, even with the new
’planes which are on order, there will
not be an R.A.A.F. machine capable
of flying with war equipment to Singa-
pore without landing two or three
times on foreign soil and risking intern-
ment. Moreover, any enemy with one
capital bomber of the type which Euro-
pean nations, Britain included, are
building—flying forts capable of operat-
ing with three tons of bombs and
machine-guns over a 2000-mile range —
could menace any Australian squadron
and outspeed most of the fighting
machines now available in Australia.
Barcoo (Q.).
Outback Pastoral Lands
The Bishop of Willochra advocates
“restriction of stocking” (B. 4/11/’36).
It is definitely impracticable. _ Take a
property where carrying capacity is one
sheen to two acres. Given good heavy
November rains, by Christmas it can
carry two sheep to one acre ; if it gets
good rains again in February it can carry
the excess well on into the winter. If
stocking capacity is restricted the owner
must' see grass going to waste, turning
sour maybe, and eventually rotting.
And the bishop advocates security of
tenure for owners who look after their
properties. I wonder what the owner
of a hotel would say if the lessee claimed
security of tenure because he had looked
after the place during the period of lease.
Restriction of stocking can be of use if
applied by statute for at least three years
prior to the date of resumption.
The bishop’s other remedies are worthy
of note. —G. F. D. (Q.).
Homer Pigeons
Can’t something be done to protect
homer pigeons, which would be of ser-
vice in case of invasion?
Pathetic evidence of the toll taken by
falcons of racing homer pigeons was a
shrivelled shin found in the nest of a
falcon near Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) and
forwarded to the owner in Balmain ;
identity of the bird was traced by the
letter and number on the leg ring. It
is interesting to notice how the pirates
haunt the recognised flying routes and
the uncanny knowledge they seem to
possess of racing dates.
In a fair chase a homer is more than
a match for even the peregrine. But the
latter “waits on” high up in the air and
“stoops” with lightning speed on the
straight-flying pigeon below him. Rarely
does the falcon make a miscalculation,
and a blow from the powerful talon ends
the argument.
A Sydney pigeon fancier told an inter-
viewer that he had seen a hawk behead
one of his pigeons with its beak. All the
lore and teaching of falconry —a sport
some thousands of years old—is to the
effect that the talon alone is used in
striking down the prey. — Bouragi
(N.S.W.).
A Lithgow-Longreach Road
A recent Bulletin writer lamented the
fact that there is no road to Central
Queensland from more populous southern
centres. The. answer should be a national
highway from Lithgow (N.S.W.) to Long-
reach (Q.).
The route is direct —almost a straight
line throughout —and a direct extension
would strike Normanton, on the Gulf of
Carpentaria.
The road would begin at an arsenal,
and it would be accessible to Newnes,
whence our petrol must come in times
of stress. The black-soil problem? It
does not exist till you near Coonamble,
and gravel and sand are obtainable as
far as Walgett. From Walgett there is
gravelly-ridge country through the opal-
fields of Camborah and Lightning Ridge,
continuing in Queensland through red
mulga ridges.
The road I suggest would link rail-
ways and traverse a safe rainfall belt. —
R. O. (N.S.W.).
Three States Will Benefit
A large part of Australia still depends
on fickle rainfall. Dry skies and a swel-
tering sun kill stock and crops, empty
purses, drive settlers off their holdings.
Vic., N.S.W. and S. Australia have a
common pride in the Hume dam, which
will serve territory previously at the
mercy of the climate.
From this dam and storage levels
along the Murray, water will go into dry
corners of three States. Through the
N.S.W. areas of Berrigan and Deniliquin
and in the southern Riverina, Hume
water will drown droughts. Half the
Hume is for Vic.’s Murray-valley dis-
tricts, Swan Hill, Kerang and Mildura.
S. fruit-farmers will get Murray water
for their orchards. In each of the three
States, Hume channels will eventually
merge with those of individual systems
the area Australia’s biggest
irrigation network.
The opening of the Hume means even
more than insuring millions of pastoral
and agricultural acres against drought.
It means that able leaders may promote
progressive harmony between State and
State and between States and Common-
wealth. —M. D. (Vic.).
“From Baku”
That contributor (B. 18/11 /’36) was
not quite so clever when he wrote that
a ship entering the Mediterranean from
Baku “must' have sailed over the Cau-
casus and several hundred miles of dry
land from the Caspian Sea.”
North of the Caucasus the Volga and
the Don elbow to a narrow “porterage
of about 50 miles, and here for years
the Soviet has been digging the Don-
Volga or Black Sea-Caspian Canal. As
it runs through quite level country wittj
soft earth the job has probably been
finished by now, and vessels drawing not
more than 19ft. of water may go
through.
Even in Tsarist days the Caspian was
not wholly land-locked, a small canal
connecting the Volga through the Neva
with Kronstadt. It was through this
canal that destroyers of the Baltic nee
made their historic appearance beiore
Samara at a critical stage and turned
the whole tide of war against the
Whites. This is now an international
route, and German steamers up to lwt-
tons run from Hamburg to Resht.
on the Southern Caspian. —D Oyst
(F.C.T.).


TWO COMPETITIONS
FOR YOUTHS
<<r PHE BULLETIN” has decided to run a couple of
competitions for youths who want to get on but see no
present prospect of realising their ambitions.
Each competition will carry a worth-while prize.
In one case the prize will amount to the sum of Fifty Pounds
(£5O), which will be paid by The Bulletin Newspaper Company,
at its discretion, to further the winner’s advancement in the
study, business or calling of his choice.
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship; in
other words, a job on “The Bulletin.”
Boys will be boys, and The Bulletin knows that it is no use telling
ardent spirits that they must not send more than one entry for one
competition or try to win both. But no lad can win both.
Competitors for the £5O prize may be any age from 17 to 22. They
will be required to give in writing plain accounts of themselves, their
circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O will go to the youth who,
considered as a citizen in the making, will, in the editor’s judgment, put
it to the best use.
He may be a student stumped for books or fees; a budding scientist
who cannot at present buy needed apparatus; a lad with a mechanical
bent who is short of money for tools or for a premium; an embryo flying
or wireless man who cannot finance a course; a young fellow starting in
some carrying or other business to whom £5O would be a godsend; a
country lad who with £5O could do something in the share-farming line
or buy some implement or even pay a deposit on a bit of land, perhaps
having some friendly neighbor who may be willing to give a lad a chance.
“The Bulletin” wants the stories of such lads, and of hundreds of
others. Not necessarily for publication in every case—no doubt in some
cases there will be written things which should not be made public—
but so that it may arrive at a fair judgment in deciding the destiny of
the £5O, and also that it may collect evidence that will second the efforts
of those good people who have taken up the cause of unemployed lads
and of others whose opportunities have been tragically restricted by
the depression.
It will not be expected of any entrant for Youth Competition No. 1
that he must be a practised writer. If he makes out what is adjudged
the best claim to the £5O it won’t matter a bit if his grammar is rocky
and he can’t spell.
Character, courage and a clear and logical purpose—these are the
things that will tell.
In the other competition, however, literary merit or aptitude will
necessarily be a deciding factor.
‘The Bulletin” wants a lad who may be trained to become a respon-
sible member of its staff, and naturally preference will go to the boy
who, on the evidence of the writing submitted, will seem most likely to
supply the requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths in the 17-22 age group
living anywhere in the Australian Commonwealth or Territories or in
New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads living anywhere in Australia
or its Territories or New Zealand, but they must be aged 17, 1 8 or 19.
In each case youths living remote from Sydney will start equal with
residents of Sydney as regards chances of landing the prize.
If the winner of Youth Competition No. 2 happens to be a Victorian,
a Queenslander, a South Australian, a Westralian, a Tasmanian, a New
Zealander or a resident of any of the Australian Territories, or of N. S.
Wales beyond Sydney, The Bulletin Newspaper Co. will pay his fare to
Sydney and see that he is installed in a decent home.
If, after a fair trial, he does not like the job or the job does not like
him, he will be sent back to the place he came from at the expense of
The Bulletin Newspaper Company.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association) rates for cadets are £2
a week the first year, £2 15s. the second year and £3 15s. the third year;
then the cadet qualifies as a junior at £6 12s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to Sydney, the first year’s
salary will be made up to £2 1 os., and the lad will have opportunities of
earning more. This will apply also to the second and third years of his
cadetship.
Entries for both competitions will be received to the end of February.
This should admit of every eligible Australian and Maorilander, however
remote from ‘ The Bulletin” office, sending in an entry if either com-
petition appeals to him.
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 1.
What I Would Do With Fifty Pounds.
Set out in plain language what you would do with the money. Lead
up to it by giving a short account of yourself, and your experiences, stating
your age, condition, whether living at home or out in the world; if no
longer at school, how old you were when you left it, and so forth.
There is no word-limit for your essay, but try not to make it too
long. Facts are the essential things. And write on one side of the
paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cutting in the places specified
and get one of the responsible parties mentioned below to certify to
your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to your essay and address both to
Editor, The Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
of ... .
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that the facts
are as he has stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 2.
Why I Want to Become a Writer.
Give reasons in an essay of, say, 600 to 1200 words—though there
will be no hard-and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, state your age, the course your reading has taken, your
favorite poet (and why), the prose-writer you prefer (and why), what
sort of memory you possess, and whether you have had anything printed
in your school paper or in some other publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one of the responsible persons
mentioned below, pin it to your essay and post to Editor, “The Bulletin,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that the facts
are as he has stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS


THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND" All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Rola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Raunch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
The Receiving Location for Short
Waves.
Most listeners are aware that there is
such a thing as a good and a bad loca-
tion for reception. In one place results
may be excellent, and in another disap-
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, AAV.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/—. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves.
6-volt Battery, 6/—; A.C., 227. 3/6 ; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
? BOYAR ARCADE, SYDNEY.
RADIO KES
VI BRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator —easy to instal —
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
WHte to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature ROW.
LIONEL
MODEL
ELECTRIC TRAINS
We beg to announce ourselves as Exclusive
Lionel Agents for Australia. Full stocks
of Lionel Electric Trains, Aeroplanes,
Boats, etc., are available and are on dis-
play at our Showrooms. Lionel sales and
service will also be available from our dis-
tributors throughout Australia as follows:
QUEENSLAND EDGAR V.
HUDSON PTY.. LTD., 284
Edward St'reet, Brisbane.
VICTORIA AUSTRALASIAN
ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
CO-. LTD., 415 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALI A—
NEWTON McLaren, ltd.,
Leigh Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALI A—
CARLYLE & CO., 915 Hay
Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —W. & G.
GENDERS PTY., LTD., 69
Liverpool Street, Hobart;
W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., 53 Cameron Street, Laun-
ceston.
Send 1/2 in stamps for new coloured
illustrated Lionel Catalogue No. 6a.
AMPLION (A/sia), Ltd.,
66 Clarence Street, SYDNEY ■
THE HOME WORKSHOP
INCORPORATING
RADIO NEWS
BY DON B. KNOCK.
A well-planned home workshop is an
incentive to good work; if drab and
uninspiring, the effect will be reflected in
what the workman turns out.
A fine example of neat little home
workshop is here illustrated. For many
years, the owner, W. G. Nichols, of
Leichhardt (N.S.W.), has been a keen
How tools should be kept. The home workshop of Mr. W.
Nichols', of Leichhardt N.S.W., is noteworthy for its neatness.
Tools are immediately within reach of the hands, directly over
the bench.
radio amateur, as is evident to the visitor
in the display of QSL cards dating from
the earlier days. The workshop used
to be the headquarters of the old Leich-
hardt Radio Club, disbanded some years
ago. Radio, however, has not been Mr.
Nichols’s only interest; work with tools
of all kinds occupies his time
The microscopy section of W. G. Nichols’s home workship.
The first essential in any home work-
shop is light, and plenty of it. Here the
walls are panelled in white enamelled
ply-wood, and the result is that two lamps
in the ceiling are sufficient to provide
ample reflected light at night. Machine
tools include a drill press and jig
saw, driven from a countershaft by a
|-h.p. motor. There is also a miniature
slide-rest lathe, in-
valuable for turn-
ing small items
such as wood,
brass bushings, etc.
Such small lathes
can sometimes be
picked up in second-
hand shops very
cheaply ; one used
in this workshop
being secured for a
few shilling. The
main item of work
at present being
done is an excellent
model of an old
Spanish galleon, the
beauty of detail in
the hull and deck
construction o f
which is remark-
able. Much ingen-
uity has gone into
the making of such
fittings as muzzle-
loading smooth-
bore cannon and
stern cabin -lights.
One of Mr. Nichols’s hobbies is micro-
scopy, in connection with which, in adcii-
tion to plain viewing, a projector has
been built. This is illustrated, with the
microscope in position. The microscope
is a high-grade German product, and the
lighting source is home-made from an
old photographic film packing tin, a con-
denser lens and a
six-volt car head-
lamp bulb run
from a step-down
transformer.
Another illustra-
tion shows the neat
storage cabinet for
microscope and
accessories. Slides
of all kinds are
made up and kept
in special trays, and
living bacteria are
developed in vari-
ous solutions kept
in jars. Altogether
it is an immensely
interesting hobby,
and projection adds
considerably to the
interest. The pro-
jector used will be
described later.
D. B.K.
pointing, though the same receiver,
aerial, etc., are used. -
Best conditions in a city are had at a
high elevation —on the top floor of a tall
W. G. NICHOLS, of Leichhardt, N.S.W., at a jig-saw job.
Jig saw, small lathe and drill press are driven by a ¼h.p.
motor from a countershaft, with variable adjustment for belt-
drive tension.
building, above the high noise level of
electrical power circuits, etc. Reception
is affected by steel buildings. Signals
may be cut off in one direction yet
strong from another. An efficient aerial
is necessary if really good short-wave re-
ception is expected,
and that applies to
all conditions.
Even an ordinary
“L” aerial is direc-
tive, and signals
are, as a rule, best
from the direction
opposite to the
free end. Thus it
may be deduced
that the “L” aerial
is not the best all-
round type ; some-
thing in the nature
of an “umbrella”
would be better
for uniform recep-
tion from all
points of the com-
pass.
Anew aerial kit has appeared over-
seas, evidently designed to take advantage
of the qualities of the “umbrella,” and
described as a “spider-web antenna.
Aerial insulation is mostly neglected by
the short-wave listener. Diminutive egg
insulators of doubtful porcelain are not
good enough singly. At least three of the
glass type should be used at each sup-
porting point of the aerial.
Connections from the aerial, via the
lead-in, should not be merely twisted
together, but carefully soldered. Other-
wise, in a month or two, the. apparent
connection will be merely a high-resist-
ance circuit owing to dirt. Avoid sharp
points as far as possible in aerial design.
Endeavor to make all bends in aerials or
leads-in in the form of gradual curves.
Most important is the separation of an
aerial from a building. If the aerial, or
any part of it, touches a wall for any dis-
tance, it will be very inefficient, and one
may as well not have an aerial at all.
The aerial itself should be at least 15ft.
away from or over a roof, and the lead-in
should be no closer than 12in. to a wall
at any point.
The matter of leading the aerial
through to a room is important also.
The best method, although not always
workable, is to bring the wire through a
hole drilled in an upper windowpane.
A useful dodge is to glue sheets of tinfoil,
one outside the window and one inside,
connecting the aerial to the outer, and
a wire to the receiver from the inner.
This constitutes a series aerial condenser,
and the larger the two sheets of metal,
the larger the capacity. By arranging
the inner sheet in-the form of stiff metal
it can be moved closer to or further away
from the outer sheet, thus varying the
capacity. Sheets about sin. square are
applicable. As for the much-neglected
earth connection, this should be as good
as possible. Never connect to a radi-
ator or hot-water system, but use a
water-pipe carrying cold water direct
from the ground. A really good aerial
and earth system is well worth a trial
as a substitute for
half-hearted aerials
and earths. The
difference in recep-
tion results can be
very surprising.
Too many loca-
tions are claimed
to be poor when in
reality the listener
is to blame for not
giving the receiver
a fair chance.
D. B. K.
Television for
Birmingham.
If the television
transmissions from
Alexandra Palace
are satisfactory,
Britain’s midland
regional st a tion
will be the first to
have television
outside London.
The 8.8. C. is
searching for a site
for a new building
to house 14
studios. It is quite
evident that the
8.8. C. doesn’t fear failure.
Television in Holland.
The Philips Co. at Eindhoven, Hol-
land, is making good progress with tele-
The home-made microscope projector and equipment.
vision experiments. Originally working
on the. present German standard of 180-
line definition, the co. has now abandoned
that in favor of the present E.M.I. one
of 405 lines coupled with interlaced scan-
ning. The scanner it employs is the
Iconoscope, and it is claimed that the co.
has made these instruments with a high
degree of sensitivity, a necessary factor
when outdoor scenes are to be televised,
when the vagaries of the weather make


&
e ~ &
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
amalgamated wireless
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Oueen Street
(Advertisement of Amalgamated W i r e
For Local or Overseas programmes there is a
Radiotron to suit every requirement. Built to the highest
standards their world-wide reputation for better perform-
ance and longer life is your guarantee of satisfaction.
RADiOTRIINS
X/^l
available light uncertain. The ultra-short-
wave radio transmitter working on a
wave-length of seven metres is still re-
garded as experimental, and the output
power in the aerial is confined to half
a kilowatt. It is claimed, however, that
reception is very satisfactory, especially
from the point of view of synchronising,
a matter which has involved much re-
search in relaxation oscillators.
* * * *
“Brasso”: India is ahead of Australia
in television ; the Nizam of Hyderabad
has ordered a demonstration at the com-
ing silver jubilee celebration of his reign.
He has also promised to provide facili-
ties for anyone wishing to demonstrate
the possibilities of television in broad-
casting.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions recently have been very
patchy. Frequently there has been no-
thing but a heavy background on the
higher frequencies and a continuous fire
of static on the lower. Sometimes in
the early morning 2RO has been heard
fairly well on the 31m. band (it has
resumed that position since November
15), and a very shaky GSD has been
discernible on the 25m. band. On odd
days, especially very early, other stations
have been coming through in satisfactory
strength, and it has then been noticed
that the Stockholm station SMSSX has
improved. Generally speaking, however,
short-wave reception of overseas stations
has had no entertainment value until
evening. GSO then sends out the
strongest signal, with DJB a good second.
After 9 p.m. there is excellent reception
on both the 19m. and the 16m. bands,
DJE and GSB on the former being better
than the writer has heard them for a
long time.
In identifying stations there are traps
for the unwary. Time and again the
novice will be caught by the “double-
spot.” The experienced listener will be
on his guard against this, yet even he
Short-wave listener post of Bruno Eber-
hardt at Giessen, Germany.
will occasionally be deceived, especially
when the station is weak or is blotted
out by interference. Also, a wrong in-
ference can be drawn from a language
spoken. Most short-wave stations an-
nounce in a number . of languages,
Daventry being the outstanding excep-
tion. Even when one language is used
for a whole programme, this guide to
identity, though tolerably safe, is not
certain owing to the increasing practice
of transmitting “exchange” programmes.
During the Olympic Games, for example,
regular Japanese programmes were trans-
mitted from the German station DZC.
Early one morning recently the writer
heard what he took to be an American
on 26.35 m. ; it turned out to be the
Swiss Broadcasting Corporation’s station
HBO giving a point-to-point transmission
from Locarno to New York. The same
morning he heard a station coming
through very strongly on 24.2 m. The
Portuguese CTIGO was the only station
known to be on this wave-length, and as
the language spoken was Portuguese,
there seemed to be little doubt as to
identity. A talk on music was being
given and the names of Weber, Strauss
HENRY HALL, conductor of the B.B.C.
Empire Orchestra.
(B.B.C. photo)
and Sir Thomas Beecham could be dis-
tinguished. Afterwards a very fine
orchestra was heard playing compositions
by Nicolai and Von Flotow. Finally
there was a heavy march of the German
military type, an announcement, and
then the German folk-song call given
once only. Evidently the programme was
one relayed from Germany, where Sir
Thomas Beecham and his London Phil-
harmonic Orchestra have been giving
concerts to most enthusiastic
audiences. I had the pleasure
of hearing, from DJB, a few
days later, a rebroadcast of part
of a concert he had given at
Leipzig. A composition of Ber-
lioz was being played with ex-
traordinary energy, and a pecu-
liarity of the performance was
that every now and then the conductor
would shout like a charioteer at his
orchestra.
At 6.30 a.m. on November 9 the writer
was fortunate enough to hear the two-
ways conversation between speeding
trains in Germany and New England
which was the subject of press cables.
It was picked up on 29_87m. and was
apparently being transmitted by DZB. An
announcer of the National Broadcasting
Co. was heard to say that he was speak-
ing from the Berlin-Hamburg train
called “The Comet,” which was return-
ing to Hamburg after having established
a world’s record for steam-driven trains.
To hear Japanese programmes on
19.8 m. and 24.4 m. was another unusual
experience. The former was heard be-
tween 7 a.m. and 8 a.m., the latter after
11 p.m. Each was encountered once
only, and it seemed that they, too, were
“exchange” programmes until reports
came to hand that the International
Broadcasting Corporation of Japan
was reaching across the globe with five
new transmitters, two of which (JZK
on 19.8 m. and JZJ on 25.4 m.) were
evidently responsible for the programmes
I had heard. The other three are JZI
(31.48 m.), JZL (16.85 m.) and JZM
(14m.). We are now approaching the
time of year when Japan comes through
very strongly, as witness the marked im-
provement of late in JVN, and all the
new transmitters should make themselves
heard. News comes also that a new
Norwegian transmitter will shortly go
on the air using the following wave-
lengths and callsigns: LKZ, 13.95 m.;
LKX, 16.87 m.; LKW, 16.9 m.; LKV,
19.78 m.; LKU, 25.36 m.; LKQ, 25.56 m. ;
LKE, 31.34 m.; LKD, 31.41 m.; LKJ,
31.45 m.; LKC, 31.48 m.; and LKL,
48.94 m.
P. R. W.
Amateur-radio Chatter.
When considering the cycles of poor
and good DX conditions, it is interesting
to speculate upon what, according to sun-
spots, may be expected in a few years’
time. ’Phone DX as now known on 20
will be non-existent, and even C.W.
QSOs will be rare with all the familiar
countries now appearing daily and nightly
on the dials. To the recent kind of
“experimenter,” arriving on the amateur
scene with no other interest than 20-
metre mike, technique and a passionate
desire for QSL cards, the reversal of DX
conditions will be a distinct shock.
A peculiar trouble has been encoun-
tered in the writer’s new u.-s.-w. super-
het. Despite great care in ensuring the
symmetry of tuned circuits, tracking was
almost impossible. Well-designed special
ceramic coil mountings were employed,
each consisting of two ceramic bars
carrying three contacts per side and fitted
with metal supporting brackets. These
brackets had been removed in the oscil-
lator portion, and it was not until first
detector and R.F. were similarly treated
that tracking was obtained. The pres-
ence of the metal brackets in the field
“ Resistance” 56mc. superhet built for
tests by VK2NO. A 954 Acorn valve
is used as the autodyne detector.
of the coils had the effect of reducing in-
ductive value so much that R.F. and de-
tector coils needed a full turn less, which
explains why tracking was not previously
possible, especially at such frequencies.
Further tests with the receiver show
that stations can be heard on five metres,
with no trace of them on a good super-
regenerator. More stations with modern
equipment are wanted to co-operate. So
far such co-operation is only at the talk
stage. Many present-day amateurs
appear to baulk at what may appear to
be difficult technical problems. Half the
joy of amateur radio lies, or should lie,
in solving such problems.
VK2NO.
U.-S.-W. Receivers and Twisted
Feeders.
In the course of testing all kinds of
five-metre receivers, from single valve
“squeggers” to multi-valve supers, the
writer has noted an important point
where the receiving aerial has a twisted
line feeder. There is a right and wrong
way of coupling the line to the receiver,
and reversal of tfye feeders will often
work wonders on reception from a dis-
tant weak station. Experimenters using
such feed lines to aerials should try the
effect of feeder reversal whilst listening
to a weak signal. In some cases a pre-
viously totally inaudible station will
appear on the dial when the changeover
is made.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
Radio.
(1) Circuit of a proposed vibratory power
system is enclosed. Would this be satisfactory ?
(2) If so, what valve should I use ? (3) Could
filament be heated from the same six-volt bat-
tery? (4) Could I get a standard transformer
for the job? (5) Could I use a Westinghouse
dry rectifier in place of the valve? (6) What
would be the load on the battery? —4so.
(1) and (3) Yes. (2) Type 84. (4) An ordi-
nary power transformer can be employed, using
the five-volt rectifier winding as the input from
the battery. Transformer manufacturers can
provide types designed expressly for vibratory
supplies. (5) Yes. (6) Depends on the vibrator
itself. With good design the total load on a
six-valve set, including the lighting of all valves,
does not exceed one ampere, but an ordinary
buzzer vibrator will take around two amperes.
*** * '
(1) I have a six-valve super he t, and the only
thing I know about it is the name. What
approximately is the discharge ratio when the
volume is turned on full from the A and
B batteries (B battery is three 45 -volt Ever-
Readys ) ? (2) How long can it go before a new
one is needed? (3) How many valves can go
before it stops running? (They are two-volt
types.) (4) How does one locate a dead valve ?
(Only two light up.) (5) Do different makes of
valves go in different places ? (6) Is there a
skeleton valve which would fit any place in an
emergency ? (7) Do valves deteriorate from
the time of making? (8) I understand the C
battery can be done without. Is this so ? (9)
How do I test this for renewal ? —449.
0) Depends on the audio channel mainly.
If class B the drain on the B batteries will
vary from around 11 milliamperes standing cur-
rent (no signal) to over 45 at full volume. The
A-battery drain remains the same. (2) If B,
the best part of 10 months. They should be
tested under load (when the set is working)
with a high-resistance voltmeter. If below 35
volts, they should be renewed, but most modern
sets can use the B batteries to a very low
value without trouble in audio howling. When
replacing, renew all the B batteries. Don’t
put new in with the old. (3) One valve out of
action means a dead set. (4) A valve-tester is
the only reliable way. Any radio dealer will be
able to check this. (5) The same types are made
by various makers. (6) No. Such a develop-
ment would be worth a fortune! (7) Very
gradually. They may last a decade. (8) and
(9) Far from this; the C battery is very im-
portant, governing audio quality and battery
drain. Test with a voltmeter and, if even one-
third down, replace.
* * * *
Attached is an advertisement for an aerial
substitute. Is it as effective as claimed? —451.
We have not had it for test, and therefore
cannot report. The modern receiver, with only
a little metallic material, unscreened and free
from the chassis, can pull in many stations.
Efficient and properly-designed external aerials
are necessary for international communication
over long distances; otherwise commercial
stations would pull down their masted aerial
systems. If the makers will submit a sample
for trial before purchase you could see if it
suited your requirements.
* * * *
(1) What opportunity exists for telegraphic
training in the militia signal units of the army?
(2) Where in Sydney should one enrol?— 4s3.
(1) A signals recruit is trained on parade
nights in all branches of military signalling, in-
cluding buzzer work for cable communication,
visual telegraphy by heliograph and lamp and
wireless telegraphy and telephony. (2) The
adjutant, Cavalry Divisional Signals, or 2nd
Divisional Signals, Engineers’ Depot, Moone
Park, or Ist Divisional Signals, Carlow-street,
Crow’s Nest.
Workshop.
L.J. (Tamworth, N.S.W.).—(I) Are petrol-
powered model aeroplanes superior in perform-
ance to compressed-air power? (2) Has steam
been applied to such models? (3) Is an electric
motor workable?
(1) Yes. The fuel supply lasts much longer
than the amount of air that can be stored in
a compression chamber. (2) One of the pioneers
of aviation produced a successful steam model
long before men actually flew. Flash steam
was applied. It is well worth experiment. (3)
No, owing to the weight of even a small
accumulator. Dry cells are out of the question.


“THE AGE”
Established. 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household. publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:— AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney —P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London —F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St
M F . RIEUSSET, Representative.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply
any accredited advertising agency
The Long White Cloud
Housing and the Plan
The £3,500,000 housing scheme means
a lot to Maoriland Labor. P.M. Savage
makes no secret of its vital part in the
national superannuation and health ser-
vices his Government plans to establish
next year.
The new houses will be Labor’s first
real smack at bettering internal condi-
tions. Maoriland has fewer slums than
Sydney or. Melbourne, but building
slumped heavily during the depression.
An architect’s survey in March showed
that . 17,000 fewer houses were built be-
tween 1929 and 1936 than if M.L. had
accurately offset with new homes its
population increases and house wastage.
Local materials are to be used, and
where supplies are limited by existing
plant Labor has power under its Indus-
tries Efficiency Bill to step in with capi-
tal needed for extension. Skilled over-
seas workers have been advised that
activity will continue in the trade, so this
scheme will not be the last.
According to Mr. Savage, the new
houses will rid M.L. of much sickness
bred in poor living conditions. National
services are then to keep people healthy
and provide for their old age.
The one disturbing feature is Mr.
Savage’s repeated references to the
“thoughtful use of public credit.”
“Tuna”: Minister Semple’s campaign
against irresponsible motorists has been
extended to careless cyclists and pedes-
trians in Christchurch. From loud-
speakers on busy intersections, traffic
officers educate passers-by; for instance,
when the usual absent-minded woman
tries to cross against the lights, a sten-
torian voice advises the world that the
dear old lady in the funny hat is dis-
obeying traffic regulations and qualify-
ing for a fine. Galleries find it amusing
as well as instructive. Indignant parties,
stopped in their tracks when so shrewdly
distinguished, don’t get rough with the
chief traffic inspector either. They know
he is head of an amateur physical-train-
ing club which this year scooped the pool
at the Canterbury wrestling champion-
ships.
* * *
“Korero”: Employment of Maoriland
youths has still to be tackled by the
Labor Government, and Minister Semple
will probably make some Australian in-
quiries when he crosses in January—
Victoria has begun a survey, and is ask-
ing unemployed lads to contact a central
bureau. Recent • M.L. industrial legis-
lation has done nothing to better the lot
of youths who have never worked ; faced
with the payment of higher minimum
rates, employers want younger , boys and
girls whom they can train to earn the
minimum rates. Unfortunates between
18 and 20 years lack the training to be
wnrth the higher wages.
* X * *
“Motu”: Maoriland airmen who go
overseas seem to stick to type. In the
Melbourne air race the late Squadron-
leader McGregor and Palmerston North’s
Johnny Walker pared down the England-
Australia light-’plane record, but their
remarkable flight in an open machine
was almost overlooked. They never
courted publicity. Canterbury’s Clark,
who flew the Tasman the other day to
get home for shearing, said little in Syd-
ney, and his only additional Maoriland
comment was that Tasman dangers were
overrated. He was the first Canterbury
Aero Club pupil to try a voluntary para-
chute jump, and the secretary probably
remembered this when Clark cabled an
offer to fly from England any machine
the club wanted. The cable to Clark
indicated that the club would rather
ship it!
* * * *
“Fergus”: The Coromandel Peninsula
has a modern Maoriland hermit (B.
25/11 / ’36). When bad weather prevents
him from emptying his crayfish-pots he
does some fossicking in the hills behind
his humpy, but fishing is his job. A fort-
nightly launch freights his catch to the
Auckland market, and in between calls
he keeps the crays in a huge, semi-sub-
merged crate some hundred yards off the
shore. Only a few hours from Auckland
by water, he is miles from the nearest
settlement or neighbor; yet from his
whare doorstep he can see ocean liners
taking the Colville passage out of the
Hauraki Gulf between the mainland and
"But YOU can't speak Italian?"
"No need to — I'm going to Auckland."
the Great Barrier. In the thatched
humpy he has a powerful radio which
attracts shepherds and prospectors from
the hills when there is a fight or a foot-
ball match. Interpreting his grunts last
January, I gathered that Labor’s election
win had given that lonely bay its wildest
night in pakeha history.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Maori members of Parlia-
ment do not always bother to hide their
contempt for the “pakeha trash” (B.
18/11/’36). A few years ago one native,
renowned for the evident satisfaction he
gained from removing his boots and loll-
; ing back for a snooze during tiresome
European debates, snapped his fingers
for a House messenger. Before the man
could reach the Maori’s seat, the honor-
able member threw the letter on the floor
in the way one chucks a bone to a dog.
Occupants of the press gallery felt like
throwing inkpots at him ; but few Maoris
are so patently ill-bred as that one.
* * * *
“Xo”: The ban on Mrs. Freer has
given Maoriland some good overseas
publicity. Sunny rural centres in North
Auckland and Bay of Plenty have many
Englishmen living in semi-retirement after
years in India and other parts of Asia ;
some just enjoy their pensions, but most
of them work small orchards. In M.L.
they found a temperate climate, good
schools for their children and the privacy
and peace denied them in Asian cities.
But it needed something like the M[rs.
Freer business to remove their growing
fears that Mr. Savage’s Labor politics
might make M.L. “less British” ; the way
Mrs. Freer was received in Maoriland
after Canberra cold-shouldered her —
featured by every important newspaper
in the Empire—has carried a very
English idea of “good form” into clubs
from Shanghai to Poona.
% * * *
“M.”: Centenary preparations are
making Maoriland conscious of the
many historical relics (B. 18/11 /’36) to
be found in the older towns. Paterangi,
Auckland, has a hand-carved headstone
which formerly marked the grave of six
soldiers killed by the Maoris at Waiari
on the Mangapiko River in February,
1864. In the same skirmish Major
Heapy won the only V.C. awarded to
a “colonial” soldier during the Maori
disturbances. Members of the armed
constabulary later stationed at what is
now Pirongia carved and erected the
original headstone; when this was re-
placed by a memorial, the old headstone
was removed to Paterangi church.
* * *' *
“Mak”: Another trans-Tasman Labor
politician has had a book published.
Clyde Carr, the South Island parson
from Timaru, is the author; the work
is a slim volume entitled Politicalities or
“cartoons in words of prominent poli-
ticians.” Of one member the writer
observes that his “reputation as an an-
nouncer still stands supreme and his popu-
larity with children is a thing to marvel
at... .In. Parliament he is regarded as a
most effective debater... .In his constitu-
ency he is respected for his devotion to
the people.... His sympathies are broad
and deep.” What member? Clyde Carr!
* * * *
“F.”: Lovelock was named “Doctor
soon after he reached Auckland to begin
the athletics tour sponsored by the M.L.
Government'. Not even a Lovelock can
catch up with press telegrams, but in
Christchurch he made a valiant effort to
cripple the furphy, explaining that he was
a 8.A., but had still to pass his final
medical examination. The Hitler oak
he was to have planted at his old school
in Timaru may let the Nazi leader down;
two summers on end were nearly too
much for the M.L. specimen. The tree
will not be ready for its Timaru bed
until it has had a year or two m a
botanical gardens’ acclimatisation house
in Christchurch. If Lovelock listens to
Minister Parry and other Government
heads, he might be back before then as
Director of Physical Culture.
* * * *
“Runa”: Maoriland health resorts
provide unusual entertainments free. We
were wandering round Lake Rotorua one
morning, and to pass the time began
poking holes in the
sand of the lake
beach with a walk-
ing-stick. A party
of English tourists
watched us perplex-
edly. Having laid
out an effective
geometrical pattern
in holes, we sat
down and waited.
Presently small jets
of hot water began
shooting thro ugh
the holes, and in a
short time a won-
derful natural foun-
tain was in full
play. After the first
astonished pause,
the tourists arose in
a body and began
feverishly seek ing
sticks to make fur-
ther fountains, and
we left them with
the whole of the small
beach spurting
bravely. When they
came upon us later
tossing empty match-
boxes into a hot
pool they waited ex-
pectantly: the quiescent small geyser
awoke and played the boxes with great
effect. Those tourists had a full morn-
ing.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Not long after rabbits “accli-
matised” so well in Maoriland (B.
25/11/’36) some genius thought of in-
troducing stoats and weasels to wipe
them out. The new arrivals soon multi-
plied, but they developed a taste for game
and native birds, which in many instances
are easier to stalk than rabbits. Some
farmers say stoats actually share bur-
rows with rabbits if they can get suffi-
cient feathered meat. The wingless weka.
or native woodhen, has been eaten right
out of many North Island districts. Pro-
tection has been lifted from stoats and
weasels, but since Minister Parry learned
that stoat litters usually exceed hah
a dozen he is advocating a real drive
against the pests.


1 ohis masterpiece is (Perfection
J {he spirit he always serves.
l> «
*rt
Cv
TV
tr*Jr
HI
: ‘.v-r
05s
UwTW<Huiiww»nw>Littniirßn^««^»^Mw<u»a*^^mMtnto< r^^*»tUt*«‘»»M>rtv*iannr^tl|tUiuii
(T) c Calliiros
(D c Cailums
tfyipgS- »
Scots tUbisky
( iHTj •%••*•.
C/ flp w
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO "THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
ol «.°
fit'
v %
#■ *fv"
of
0%
<•*
\cP „e 4 ••• ••
A* ..•••• ..•••'
l 6 ' .- •
i\' e


V
'
s m.
**>■
srrr
m
K
S
Mii;
s
: ,
iS#l
g itail
'-' nH
f.j ;
i/Ti !
Wr .TV
.::;
.■a?
MmmmmmMMrnam
—*
The World's Best Safety
To the happy Recipient a Rolls Razor will give Shaving
Comfort for Life. You will have the satisfaction of
knowing that your Gift is the Best the World has to Offer.
Models from 50/-
Rolls Razors are obtainable at all the Best Retail Stores, Chemists, Tobacconists,
Hardware Merchants, Jewellers, Booksellers and Stationers throughout the Com-
monwealth of Australia.
The Head Office in Sydney is part of a World-wide Organi-
sation to give service and to substantiate the Guarantee with
which every Razor is Sold.
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: D. Reddan & Co., 330,Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros., Aust. (Pty.), Ltd., Monarch House, Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornells, Coltons and HoSnungs
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
