

HP®
mm
Strong, silent, swiftly menacing, the rushing tides
sweep around the buoy— constant danger of the endless
stream of shipping
Yet its beacon, with never-failing flashes, gives warn-
ing to the keen eyes of anxious mariners; its friendly
beam the message which spells safety.
In the maelstrom of modern business the house of
Hamiltons, too, stands forth as a reliable never-failing
beacon, guiding investors through the shoals and lighting
their way along the course of secure investment.
Hamiltons offer free of any cost or obligation a
service backed by experts which will ensure that your
investments may be placed with confidence.
The Hamilton principle of offering shareholdings in
ESTABLISHED companies only of proved dividend-
earning capacity, together with a rigid system of critical
examination and financial analysis, ensures results with
security.
Free advice on' all investments may be had on
application to—
HAMILTONS (AUSTRALASIA), LIMITED.
Send for your copy of “PROFITS”— Posted" *Free.
IHamillOm (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET. SfDNBI.
'Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box; 1017 N.
H
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
N.Z.
The Bulletin
Leaguers Demand War
Vol. 57.—N0. 2934.
Wednesday, May 6, 1936,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
*
oru Writing
VI at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SfOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL - -
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
P.objilet, explaining how to Write for Profit, ns
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Ml) Fame
M.n Address
kB. 186 ,
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted;
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6. 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful woik,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a noin de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out ot
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-strect.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is. in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
tollowing year’s Prize.
The Red Page
MAKING
OF A
BEST-SELLER
Idriess first de-
scended upon me
through the
medium of a few
lines he sent to
The Bulletin
about a queer
Queensland bird ; I wrote seeking further
information, and the paragraphist, being
then in Sydney, came along to talk things
over. It was a matey meeting. We were
the same age, were both reared in the
country (he in N.S.W., I in Vic.), and
both knew Queensland pretty well; and,
if the roaming bushman had by far the
greater knowledge of Australia in the
raw, possibly the balance was held by
my knowledge of natural history.
Anyhow, it may fairly be said that the
occasion, born of a casual par., was a
lucky strike for both of us. I was news
editor of Sydney’s “Daily Pictorial” at
the time —that was 10 years ago—and
was in close touch with Angus and
Robertson, so that, when Idriess sur-
prisingly produced the MS. of a poten-
tial book, 1 took him along to 89 Castle-
reagh-street and thrust him upon the
late George Robertson, who in those
days could be a difficult proposition for
an “outsider.” The Old Man was not
enthusiastic ; he was shy of publishing
at the time because of printing troubles.
But we got past his defences in the end.
“All right, Chisholm,” he said. “You
are a dashed nuisance, but I’ll give this
fellow a chance!”
Thus, with the appearance of Mad-
man’s Island, was lon L. Idriess born
into authorship. It was not for any of
us—author, introducer, publisher—to
dream that within 10 years the ex-battler
would be sitting behind 10 books and
would have broken all Australian records
as a best-seller.
“I told you so,” said G.R. when
Madman’s Island flopped. Its author
did not worry unduly. He drifted away
again to Queensland, but within a year
or two he returned to Sydney and
became a kind of spare part on the
“Sunday Pictorial,” which I was then
editing. Time and again when the paper
was short of a good story “Jack” Idriess
rallied to the cause. He had an uncanny
facility for discovering when men from
New Guinea, the Islands, North Queens-
land or the Centre were in town. He
told (as he reminds me) the story of
Karius and Champion—their wonderful
trip of 550 miles along the Fly River
and the discovery of white natives 7000 ft.
up on a range between Papua and
the Mandated Territory—six or seven
years ago, long before “white natives”
became a topic of general discussion.
He told the story of the life and death
of Baba of Mer (John Stewart Bruce),
and of the sending of his ashes from
Sydney to the tropic island. He told
dozens of other yarns of adventure, and
by way of emphasis he brought the
adventurers themselves (both sexes)
along from time to time, drawled intro-
ductions, and distributed them about
the editorial sanctum. An additional but
rare visitor was his father.
Asa writer Idriess was slow but
steady. He never used a typewriter, but he
exercised a clear brain and a good hand
and left the rest to men who knew the
rights of commas and semicolons and
had seemly respect for tenses. Some-
times he produced his copy in the dingy
room where he lodged—a restless corner
of Paddington where razors flashed and
revolvers barked and where two of his
enterprising neighbors once fought a
duel with swords —but usually he bor-
rowed pen and ink and sat quietly at
an office table, there to be given only
a casual glance by most members of the
regular staff, who appeared to be de-
ceived by his superficial diffidence. (This
point did not apply to the femininity of
the establishment, towards which the
ex-fighter and ex-roughrider had his
own special method of approach.) Inci-
dentally, it is an odd reflection that one
of the staff-men then was Errol Coote,
who became pilot of the Lasseter expedi-
tion, but who did not get his book, Hell’s
Airport, published until several years
after Idriess, who was not with the ex-
pedition, had scored heavily with Las-
seter’s Last Ride.
Round about 1930 Idriess prepared for
what he had dodged during several years
of warfare—Death. This was the way
of it: When entering the “Pictorial”
office one day he got a scrap of building-
sand in an eye, and when he went to a
hospital to have this removed a bright
young doctor peered at a blotch on his
upper lip, halloed to other doctors, and
thereupon delivered a learned address on
the secondary stage of cancer. Idriess
was given six months to live. The oppor-
tunity was too good to lose ; he went
away and wrote an article describing the
feelings of a man “doomed to die.” It
was a stout effort, and it brought him a
much-needed 10 guineas. At that time I
was unaware that cancer does not attack
an upper lip in more than one case in
100,000 or so, but I had written a good
deal on the subject, with skilled advice,
and knew enough to doubt that hasty
diagnosis; wherefore poet Ken Slessor
and I in turn abused Idriess into visiting
another hospital. “Pish!” said the ex-
amining doctor. “Merely a casual cyst!
The thing will disappear very soon.”
And so it proved. Still, as I say, that
“doomed-to-die” article was very worthy.
Early in the following year (’3l) Idriess
took stock of himself again, but in a
rather different fashion.
“Y’ know,” he confided, “I’m getting
tired of grafting at freelance work for
a few quid a week. I’d like to write some
of those best-sellers that I’ve heard about,
and sit back and draw royalties for the
rest of me life.”
“My hoy,”'Said I (all sound editors say
“My boy!”), “that is a noble ambition,
but it can’t be done in Australia at
present.”
“Well,” Idriess drawled, “I’m going
to give it a blanky go!”
By this time I knew my man well
enough to know that if he determined to
“give a go” to anything he would do
so. Was there not evidence on the point
in his winning of £IOO in a Pitt-street
competition? Traders there had put up
the cash for a contest over a missing
word or a misspelt word, the idea being
that you should peer at placards in the
windows, get a hunch, and then lodge
your entries with the backing of receipts
for purchases. Idriess was not a buyer ;
he merely ambled along the street and
picked up dockets when women dis-
carded them. Sometimes he wandered
indoors, and, dodging shopwalkers’
admonitory boots, retrieved the dockets
from the floors. Tenacity did it: in due
course he arrived waving the £IOO cheque.
Those shopkeepers were not to know
that their money went to a man who
had not spent a penny with them.
Accordingly, it was no matter for sur-
prise to hear that when strolling through
Hyde Park the roamer had got the idea
for a booklet on prospecting, had rushed
the proposition to publishers before he
could change his mind, and had lodged
the material within a couple of weeks.
Prospecting for Gold, however, was rela-
tively a trifle. Idriess went into “smoke”
then, and emerged with the MS. of
Lasseter’s Last Ride. The enterprise
did not seem to warrant enthusiasm.
“This,” said I, pontifically, “is merely
the kind of stuff you have been writing
for me. It is merely day-by-day or
weekly journalism. You probably won’t
get it published, or, if you do, it won’t
sell! ”
Idriess was undaunted. He went alone
with his MS. to Angus and Robertson
this time, and they made a more vital
decision than anyone realised in resolv-
ing to “give it a go.” Publication, how-
ever, was made a hasty job, and the
initial issue was held up for a couple of
days while I struggled with a host of
printers’ errors and the amending of
odds and ends of phraseology—a trying
task in the midst of editing a newspaper.
The volume under treatment was broken
in halves and the corrected first portion
taken to the printers while the second
half was being amended. But that by
the way. What I wish to say, or suggest,
is that my prophecy regarding Lasseter
was not so poor as would appear. I
still think that Idriess was as lucky to
succeed with that book as he was un-
lucky to fail with his first one. It was
doubtful for some time whether Lasseter
would or would not sell well, but eventu-
ally the balance tipped the right way—
the public fancy had gradually been
caught by a semi-topical, real-life story
of adventure;—and when Flynn of the
Inland appeared each book supported
the other.
That was the end of Idriess as a free-
lance. While writing Flynn he emerged
occasionally from the Presbyterian
Church offices- to scribble short articles
on demand, but by this time I knew that:
ray coy “apprentice” had Grown Up—
that he was, in fact, on the way to
achieving the ambition proclaimed only
a year or two previously: “I'd like to
write some of those best-sellers that I’ve
heard about, and sit back and draw
royalties for the rest of me life.”
Detailed discussion of the books is
unnecessary, but I should like to say that
I agree with the point made by the Red
Page that Idriess is thoroughly self-
contained. He has, indeed, something of
the aboriginal type of mind he ascribes
to Kidman —“his gift of observation and
uncanny memorising of detail was to
stand him in good stead”—a mind ever
retentive of first-hand impressions and
never blurred by indoor study. Only a
man possessing exceptional self-reliance,
blended with marked tenacity, could have
persisted, through all tribulations, in
keeping that remarkable diary that went
to the making of The Desert Column. Re-
inforcing the unhampered mentality is
a natural story-telling style that is
graphic without being “literary,” together
with a flair for hitting upon catchy titles.
And the ability to select a good title, as
I have previously observed in The
Bulletin on the basis of painful experi-
ence, is no unimportant part of an
author’s equipment.
It remains to be added that, after all
is said, I am still a trifle dazed by the
fact that eight books by Idriess, pro-
duced in the last 4| years, have already
aggregated well over 70 editions. So,
indeed, is Idriess—and particularly when
he receives missives from his new
“friends” that stick closer than brothers,
the taxation officials.
ALEC H. CHISHOLM
Mr. Read
Corrects
Mr. Eliot
Mr. Herbert
Read does this
interesting jo b
very well with the
long first gun of
his excellent criti-
cal broadside In
Defence of Shelley and Other Essays
(Heinemann; from Angus and Robert-
son ; ,215.). The provocation ot Mr.
Read’s letting off his gun is the charac-
teristically icy fireworks cast upon the
reputation of Shelley by Mr. T. S. Eliot
in his even more expansively entitled
critical discharge. The Use of Poetry and
the Use of Criticism, done by Faber and
Faber (who usually do do Mr. Eliot) a
year or so ago. In his bleak Harvardian
pyrotechnics —a letting off that must have
sent a chill down the spine of that insti-
tution itself (hundreds have since died of
cold in U.S.A., anyway)-Mr. Eliot flared
frozen!y forth:
I confess that I never open the volume
of his [Shelley’s] poems simply because
I want to read poetry, but only with some
special reason for reference. 1 find his
ideas repellent; and the difficulty of sepa-
rating Shelley from his ideas and beliefs
is still greater than with Wordsworth. And
the biographical interest which Shelley has
always excited makes it difficult to read
the poetry without remembering the man:
and the man was humorless, pedantic, self-
centred and sometimes almost a black-
guard .
In fairness lo the open-mindedness of
Mr, Eliot- —abiding the nature of his
approach to poetry for a moment —there
is his own word for it that, though
Wordsworth “does not present a very-
pleasing personality either,” Mr. Eliot
really does enjoy Wordsworth’s poetry ;
Mr. Eliot even finds some enjoyment in
Omar, though he seems to feel that this
is not altogether proper. With such fire-
sticks does Mr. Eliot lay into Shelley, and
this Mr. Read resents ; he does not like
it at all. So he shoots this at Mr. Eliot:
It will be found, I fancy, that it is not
really poetry that is involved... .when be-
liefs do not enter into the question—as in
the case of Landor or of Keats —then I
think Mr. Eliot and I would find a com-
plete measure of agreement. But for
some reason Mr. Eliot’s taste in poetry
is not so catholic as mine—it does not
embrace Shelley and Goethe, for example.
Mr. Eliot attempts to justify his exclusive-
ness on critical grounds; he only succeeds
in betraying an irrational prejudice.
Mr. Read proposes, by way of silenc-
ing the chill thunders of Mr. Eliot, to
establish two points: the maturity and
permanent worth of Shelley's best poetry
and “the irrelevance of that mare’s-nest
of Belief, first introduced into the dis-
cussion of poetry by our tortuous logo-
dtedalist, Dr. I. A. Richards.” It should
be said here that he does both these
things competently and effectively. As
to the first, he does it easily enough by
loading his gun with “Prometheus,”
“Epipsychidion,” “Adonais” and “various
shorter odes and lyrics” written in the
last four years of Shelley’s life. Mr. Read
fires these things off great guns, loading
up with the powerful ammunition of
Shelley’s own “Defence of Poetry” (“the
profoundest treatment of the subject in
the English language”). Then he lets
this off;
For it is not a belief in the ideas or
dogmas of a poet that is essential for the
reader’s poetic “assent,” but rather a sym-
pathy with his personality; and this is the
sense in which I wish to amend Mr.
Eliot’s amendment of Dr. Richards's
amendment of Coleridge’s original sugges-
tion.
At this point, as anyone who knows
Mr. Read’s campaigning might have fore-
seen, Mr. Read brings up his heaviest
artillery and shoots psychoanalysis all
over the place. The net outcome of this
phase of the Defence of Shelley is to add
nothing whatever to the personal credit
of Shelley, unless anyone may consider
that it is to his credit that Mr. Read,
through the amazing optical aids sup-
plied by Drs. Trigant, Burrow and John
(Continued on page 4 .>


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”-
—Always.
"The Senior
Store
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
FAMOUS
FOR
LOW
PRICES
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
'Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
During the last
Sale days buy
for future require-
ments on our
D.P.S.
(Deposit
Purchase System.)
FD
“While I Live I’
ll Grow”
7a
5S
w
K
%
I
ONLY 3 MORE DAYS
SALE ENDS MAY 9th
18/8/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
TAILORED-TO-MEASURE
SUITS
126/-
SPECIAL PURCHASE, HIGH-CLASS
ENGLISH SUITINGS.
It’s the logical thing for every thinking
man to buy his new suit during these great
sale days at genuine generous reductions.
Desirable, seasonable cloths in tasteful
Greys, Blues, Autumn-tone Browns and
rich Fawns are tailored by Anthony
Horderns’ experts in their best possible
manner . . . and remember only the best
linings and finishings are used. They’re
much below their usual cost!
Prices £B/8/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
Sale Price, each . , 126/-
Onset
w
■
=•
ft
I
79/6 Ready-for-Service
MEN'S SAC SUITS
With an air of fine styling these Ready-for-Service
Suits are tailored in solid yarn dyed Worsteds.
Fashioned to cope with the constant wear -of the
man-about-town and to retain their shape. In fancy
Greys in All Wool Worsteds. Price 79/6
Sale Price, each- 69/6
/
6
FD
10/6 Men’s Flannel Trousers
Well-tailored men’s Flannel Trousers. Strong
and durable quality material in popular Greys,
and also Fawns. Price, pair 10/6
Sale Price, pair 6/11
II
# Men's Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all Railway
Stations in N.S.W. and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd
Pitt, Goulburn & George Sts.
’Phone: M24OJ,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
P ostal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
V
a
■
. ■■■:■
a
I :
m
A;
|l
84'- English
TWEED
Overcoats
696
Tailored in the smartest English
Tweeds. Smart Fawn or Grey
Herringbones. Single-breasted
Raglans. Double-breasted Form-
fitting styles. Price .... 84/-
Sale Price, each 69/6
79'6 Men’s
GABARDINE
Overcoats
6 9 7 s
New and serviceable Dark Fawn
shade Gabardine Overcoats.
Proofed against wind and rain.
Popular Slip-on Raglan style.
Price 79/6
Sale Price, each 69/6
T \ ...
mm
-Vi.
||P3
wmm
msm
.
rViWr
a
a^
79/6 Leather Coats
Real hide leather coats.
Dark Brown.' Will not
crack or peel. Strong
linings. Double-
breasted Raglan. All-
round belt and deep
storm collar.
Price 79/6
Sale Price, each .. 72/6
m


m
I
■K
*
■
9881
.
■H
■
' i
■
Hi
AN IDEAL PRESENT FOR A FRIEND
AND A MOST INTERESTING AND
EDUCATIONAL BOOK FOR CHILDREN.
“Zoo People”
A series of intimate, unusual and most delightful
Studies in Animal and Bird Portraiture repro-
duced by Photo-lithographic Printing, together
with informative paragraphs concerning the
subjects dealt with.
TWENTY-FOUR PAGES
PRICE I'6 (Postage 2d. Extra)
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
/d
r- > - ' - *
, &
f r
mJMI
T. MacCurdy, is enabled to oversee
time and the tomb and all things else,
penetrate into the unuttered and secret
consciousness of that frailty that was the
embodiment of Shelley, and see there
what might perhaps be most helpfully
described as a sort of inherent sedentary
homosexuality. After which, it seems
certain, Mr. Eliot will henceforth never
open Shelley at all.
Now, this is possibly a private fight,
into which it would be a fault of taste
for an obscure outsider to intrude ; but
perhaps it might not be taken amiss by
anyone if a random shot is let off in
nobody’s especial direction, but merely
to the general effect that as between Mr.
Eliot’s entanglement of Belief with an
acceptance of poetry and Mr. Read’s im-
mersion in sympathy with the poet’s per-
sonality (even allowing this the loose and
large meaning he gives it) there seems
no difference whatever in degree or
nature of irrelevant absurdity. For both
artificial conditionings of the mind are
no more necessary to an acceptance of
poetry than sharing pew or bar-rail with
the poet is. A great amount of extrane-
ous interest may accrue through Belief
or through Personalia, but it is not an
interest of poetry —particularly it is not
an interest of the most completely
ethereal of all poetry, the greater poetry
of Shelley himself. And it seems to this
outsider-bewildered, he has to confess,
by all such approaches to poetry —that it
is just as critically foolish to close the
book in the prejudice of Belief as to go
exploring in the book with an artificially-
evoked Sympathy for the person of the
poet. What makes purely tentative the
critical assessment of the literature of
living men is largely that the men are
living: it needs Death to strip away the
encumbrance of their life from their work
and leave the work wholly in being. In
the real analysis nothing but the work
matters: who did it, what manner of
man he was, and whether he went to
church daily or not even to have his
union with a woman secured —these are
for the dilettante to pick over; sparrow
bones.
Poetry lifts the veil from the hidden
beauty of the world, and makes familiar
objects be as if they were not familiar;
it reproduces all that it represents, and the
impersonations clothed in its Elysian light
stand thenceforward in the minds of those
who have once contemplated them
“Understanding the personality, we
may more easily, more openly, appreciate
the poetry,” goes the great gun of Mr.
Read ; “But some of Shelley’s views 1
positively dislike, and that hampers my
enjoyment of the poems in which they
occur,” fires the frosty firearm of Mr.
Eliot. “Literary criticism,” discharges
Mr. Eliot, “should be completed by criti-
cism from a definite ethical and theologi-
cal standpoint.” The only kind of criti-
cism which is basic, explodes Mr. Read,
is that “which traces the origins of the
work of art in the psychology of the in-
dividual and in the economic structure of
society.”
Both make preliminary noises to the
effect that they are out hunting for
Poetry, but each is soon off to his private
shooting. Anything, apparently, but sus-
tained endeavor to get at the essential
poetry, which is all that confers his title
upon the poet. Instead, the critical gun-
license exploited for these great shoot-
ings up blind alleys, till the ground is
littered with dead sparrows. Being
plucked, these pass for skylarks.
C.M.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
They That Take the Sword ...... Douglas Jerrold
Antarctic Discovery Read-Admiral Byrd
A Harp in Lowndes Square Rachel Ferguson
IN his England Mr. Jerrold explored
the position of Great Britain as a
member of Western civilisation. He
traced out that position historically,
and reached the broad general con-
clusion that it was weak and weak-
ening round about 1934. Then the
state of world affairs was even more
vague and confused than it is to-day ;
any statement about the future had to be
general or tentative, and few who ven-
tured upon prophecy were right or had
any idea of whither events might be
heading. Mr. Jerrold did not indulge
in particular prophecy; he based his
conclusions, as he does again now, on
plain moral grounds. Not one of those
conclusions has been shaken by what
has happened since. Rather, events have
proved the singular soundness of the
foundations upon which he built, as
anyone will see by reading, or re-reading,
his England. After all the drastic
changes in events, that book remains as
fresh and applicable to-day as when he
wrote it. It is these events, however,
that have impelled the writing of They
That Take the Sword (Bodley Head;
Angus and Robertson ; 95.). The changes
have been conclusive enough to warrant
Mr. Jerrold advancing his attack; he
moves now from that former general
approach to a close, particular analysis
of what the changing events have left
clear as the outstanding issue—that is,
Britain’s support of the League of
Nations. His thesis is that the League
has failed because it is without any moral
basis. He asserts it is the crisis in West-
ern European civilisation which is the
cause of the world’s disorder, not the
world’s disorder which is the cause of
the crisis in our civilisation ; if peaceful
progress is to become once again pos-
sible we must reorder that civilisation
and reintegrate it on a Christian founda-
tion. Examining the League in the light
of that idea, Mr. Jerrold finds that not
only is it wholly indifferent to genuine
moral principles, but that its indifference
has been forced on it by the very nature
of its organisation. His conclusions are
that it is the height of folly to work for
a League that does not seek to promote
justice ; that the only League of Nations
which can preserve human liberties is a
League built on the foundation of
human liberty; that if the League is to
be revitalised in the cause of peace, its
membership must be limited to nations
subscribing to a common morality, and
its range of action must be limited to
those matters to which that common
morality applies ; and that, unless and
until it ceases to be an organisation for
asserting a sterile legalism and becomes
an organisation for promoting justice,
the League cannot merit the support of
any civilised people. In reaching these
conclusions Mr. Jerrold subjects the
League, the present state of Western
civilisation and Britain’s part therein
to microscopic examination and most
clearly stated analysis. Even with no
particular interest in its great topic, or
perhaps no desire to be convinced by
its strong argument, anyone should find
it a book worth reading for the stimu-
lating effect that comes of contact with
any vigorous piece of clear thinking.
In a possibly not so tery different
sense Read-Admiral Byrd’s Antarctic
Discovery (Putnam; 275. 6d.) is another
stimulating book to read. Like Mr.
Jerrold’s book, it emphasises qualities
that are abiding in mankind. Its story
of the second Byrd Antarctic expedition
is finely told, notwithstanding the slurring
over of the most' dramatic personal ex-
perience in that exploration—Rear-
Admiral Byrd’s seven, months’ solitary
isolation at the advance base, mostly
underground and in darkness, and very
close to death. If ever it is really told,
that alone will make an extraordinary
book. But as a general account of a
splendid expedition the book is fine
enough. If is written with more humor
than are most books of polar explora-
tion ; such chapters as the account of the
ship battling through the Ancient Marin-
erish setting of the Devil’s Graveyard
have an uncommonly powerful dramatic
quality; and there is a talent for de-
scription that can be indicated by one
extract from what Rear-Admiral Byrd
jotted down in his diary at the time;
How can you describe a sea that’s like
no sea that ever was, or ever will be
again? A disembodied sea, having no
relation to winds or tides or currents: but
just living colors, like the colors that dwell
in rich wines, brimming in pack-ice and
icebergs of the whitest white? How can
you describe a sky that’s so chinalike that
a single sharp sound might shatter it; and
a ship running through it, with deserted
decks, exhausted men asleep in whatever
attitudes they hit, and no sound except
the soft rhythm of distant machinery, the
hiss of water along the sides?
Odd as it may seem to the romantic-
minded, the ’planes, mechanised trans-
port and radio that were used not only
do not produce disenchantment, they
add largely to the romance.
Rachel Ferguson’s A Harp in
Lowndes Square (Cape; 7s. 6d.) is
selected as a fiction choice for its striking
unusualness, uncommon plot, fresh treat-
ment and excellent characters. Set in
London, it begins shortly before the
war, and covers about 30 years in actual
time, but the narrative ties back to a
mid-Victorian setting. It is a family
story, with a mid-Victorian tyrant-
mother at the head of it, happily-
brought-up twin grandchildren of this
vicious old lady as the leading characters,
and some stage life for extra coloring.
There are some uncomfortable mysti-
cisms and ghost-walkings before the end,
but it is all bright reading, extremely
clever, with a slightly acid touch of
humor.
*
Hands: Charles G. Norris (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d.). A rather long novel of
American working life from the ’eighties
onwards, its main people a Chicago car-
penter and his family and relations, mov-
ing to better-off social levels by the time
the carpenter’s grandson is established as
the single main figure. Writing and
characterisation are both excellent, an
the novel will be enjoyed more for these
than for anything it adds to experience.
The levels of life depicted are possibly
becoming a trifle worked out.
Flight: The Story of Aviation in Pic-
tures and Text: Agnes Rogers (Harpers ;
7s. 6d. net). Interesting picture-book,
chiefly filled from American sources,
with representative examples from the
, early experimental ’planes through the
rapid war-time development and other
stages to the ’planes of to-day.
The Haven of Unrest: Gilbert Col-
lins (Bles ; 7s. 6d.). Murder having been
committed, the inevitable private detec-
tive is available once more to make the
Chief Inspector of the Yard appear a
floundering nitwit. Homicide and deduc-
tion are ingeniously devised, and there s
action, but a complete absence of charac-
terisation makes the people difficult to
visualise.
An Outsider: J. Fairfax-Blakeborough
and Rupert St. Cloud (Philip Allan;
2s. 6d.). Another of this couple’s racing
yarns, and of its kind entertaining.
There’s an English Grand National, a
nice young man whose future depends on
winning it, a very pretty Irish girl he
hopes to marry, and not a villain in the
whole of it.
More Byng Ballads: Douglas Byng,
decorated by Clarke Hutton (Bodley
Head ; 6s. net). Since the dogs have been
crooning the original it burlesques, the
effort in this lot most likely to evoke ad-
miration and gratitude for Mr. Byng is
To think that I should ever be
Just nothing better than a tree.
Stuck here in lonely solitude,
So old, and shivering in the nude.
Without a leaf to form a verdant cloak.
It’s not a joke
To be a blasted oak.
And so forth, with, as in all his stuff,
some irresistibly uproarious lines. Mr.
Byng’s spiritual ’ome is the ’alls ; any
ballad of his would sing itself over the
footlights; preparing music for it) would
be a waste of time. After “I’m a Tree”
present admirer of the Byng boy plunks
for “Nanna of the Manor” and “Tyro-
lean Tilly” as the greater joys of this
joyous collection. As for Mr. Hutton’s
assistance, it assays one attack of apo-
plexy to the square inch.
So Long to Learn: Doreen Wallace
(Collins ; 7s. 6d.). A sincere and finely-
written novel, of most interest for its de-
piction of English farming life during
the last few years. Mrs. Wallace is her-
self the wife of a farmer, as is her
central character, who, always attracted
to the soil, becomes a “land girl” on
her tenant-farmer father’s Suffolk hold-
ing in war-time, afterwards remaining on
the farm by marrying its ageing new
owner, but easily falling in love with a
war-damaged amateur farmer of about
her own age. The triangle has been
worked around in much the same way as
it is here a hundred times, but the author
has a touch of her own in the depiction
of the life, her character-drawing is good,
and when her East Anglian farmers stage
their resistance to the taxgatherers the
narrative suddenly breaks out of its
rather placid course into brisk action.
There is no question that its picture of
English farming life from 1914 to to-day
is finely projected, and if the story were
only greater or even less familiar it could
be recommended as a really good novel.
It is popular in England; a London re-
viewer makes it his “book of the month,”
and it is already in its second edition.


MONEY-MAKI NO
METHODS
CONDENSED FOR DAII_y USE
BY WORLD-FAMOUS
BUSINESS
AUTHORITy
OVER
100,000
VOLUMES SOLD IN
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND
mm,
ETTLS
wssassss
window w®!®
IX
« rp
m
WILL
VB
M
VI
mm BESTS
More
N’T
II!
"FIT
MORE NET PROFIT
How may joint management ruin a business?
How do business methods “freeze” into a system?
How much can be saved by discounting bills?
Should stock be figured at cost or selling price?
Can new methods take the place of new capital?
How can turnover be speeded up?
How can quicker turnover save the investment
of more capital?
Does every employee show a net profit?
How should profit be accounted—net or gross?
What basic plans are necessary for more net
profit?
Etc., etc.
DEBTS, AND HOW TO
COLLECT THEM
Is an “iron rule” concerning credit necessary?
How much credit is it safe to allow?
How does credit keep business poor?
What goods are best suited to the instalment
system?
How many ways do you know of asking for debt
settlement?
Can you classify your debtors?
Are your reminders bringing in payment?
Etc., etc.
THE ART OF CUSTOMER
FINDING
What percentage of customers are women?
How can advertising be bettered?
How often should window displays be changed?
What kind of service have customers a right to
expect?
What do your customers really think of your
goods and services?
How can changes in public taste be measured?
What causes “repeat” business to diminish or
increase?
Etc., etc.
UP-TO-DATE SALESMAN-
SHIP
Can sales talk and aggressive selling be overdone?
Are your salesmen interested in the goods they
sell?
What are the dangers of price-cutting?
Is salesmanship instruction practical and profit-
able?
Are low-priced salespeople profitable?
What is H. N. Casson’s R.I.D.S A.C. formula
of salesmanship?
Where lie the advantages in automatic selling?
Etc., etc.
BETTER SALESMANSHIP
and TIPS on FINANCE
What relation has better salesmanship to increased
profits?
What is the difference in talking “to” people and
“at” them?
What plan can be worked out for better sales-
manship?
What are the pitfalls of the average salesman?
What part does personality play in salesmanship?
How much does demand affect price?
When is the time to buy shares?
How much can you afford to speculate?
What is the benefit in keeping your money
“moving”?
Why is a banker’s opinion valuable?
Under what circumstances is it right to borrow
money?
When must you sell to obtain the highest value
for shares?
Etc., etc.
GOOD MANAGEMENT
Can a manager succeed by authority and dis-
cipline alone?
What are the duties of Directors?
What is the difference between “controlling” a
firm and “allowing it to run on its own”?
What attention must a manager pay to detail?
How can the progress of a firm be judged by
the skill of its workers?
What must be the personal relationship between
manager and employees?
Why must all employees be suited to their work?
Why must new methods be exploited?
Etc., etc.
WILL-POWER in BUSINESS
Where does will-power begin?
Is will-power a help or a hindrance?
Are you continually burying your sound ideas?
TIME is a raw material —how can it yield greater
returns?
How are you protecting yourself from those who
steal your time?
How can much time be wasted in changing your
mind?
How may will-power be increased?
Etc., etc.
BETTER BUSINESS
LETTERS
Why does letter writing call for great considera-
tion?
What common phrases are now considered
common errors?
Can letter writing be planned?
What kind of letters may be informal?
What is the best method of answering letters?
What business can be transacted by letter?
How can business letters be improved?
Why is it necessary to seek opinions on your
letters? Etc., etc.
GETTING OVER DIFFICULTIES
What kind of difficulties must be faced?
What difficulties can be disregarded?
Is “marking time” a way over difficulties?
What is the advantage of an outside point of
view?
Why is opportunity often mistaken for task?
How much can be learned from your own
difficulties?
When is it necessary to concentrate on best
profit-making lines?
What steps can be taken to cut losses?
What is the advantage of a good cash position?
Etc., etc.
WINDOW DISPLAY AND
AXIOMS of BUSiNiSS
How can window displays be best
improved?
What is a “pawnbroker” type of
window?
Do you know 24 pleasing color
combinations?
Why must window displays be
“timely”?
Why are quick sellers most suited
for window display?
Why must a window display be an
eye-catcher? *
What use can be made of yearly
averages?
Why must a business man analyse
his results?
Must a man take risks to gain
greater profits?
Etc., etc.
TWELVE TIPS TO
TRAVELLING SALESMEN
How can over-selling destroy sales 9
Why must a salesman be a good listener 9
How much has “No” to do with the ' final
answer?
At what moment is the best time to close a
sale?
In what way does physical fitness
increase selling ability?
What must be a salesman’s
attitude to failures?
Etc., etc.
A STORE MANAGER WRITES:
I am sincere when I say that I would not take ten times the
price for the books. They contain knowledge that will
enable any keen, energetic man with ambition to make a
success in any business. (Name on request.)
You can now have on your desk, ready for instant daily use, the
cream of Herbert N. Casson’s world-wide business experience. It
has been compressed into 12 relumes of clear, crisp advice and
example for every man of affairs, whether he be shopkeeper, whole-
saler, manufacturer, banker, director, manager, secretary, buyer,
salesman, department head executive, advertising man or ambitious
junior.
Mr. Casson is noted for the soundness of his plans and for the
brevity with which he presents them. He goes straight to the
heart of your problems. World leaders in business and industry have
paid Mr. Casson high fees for just such information as he has packed
into the books which you may now have delivered to your home for
a first payment of 7/6.
Study the brief content outlines on this page. Think how much it
would mean to you to have moneymaking methods always ready to
help increase your income, improve your profits, advance your
position! This is the greatest moneymaking value ever offered to
Australian business people. Send for your set to-day.
STRONGLY RECOMMENDED
... “I am sending to each of our departmental heads and executive
staffs volumes of THE CASSON BUSINESS LIBRARY . . . nothing
could be more helpful.”
... “I find them most exhilarating thought promoters. Glad to pick
them up so cheaply.”
. . . ‘‘They are invaluable. Any business man without them is losing
untold wealth.’
“I consider THE CASSON BUSINESS LIBRARY the best value I have
ever received for any money I have spent.”
“Not anywhere else have I seen such important business principles
grouped together.”
THE ARGUS (Melbourne): ‘‘Can be warmly recommended because
of their economic soundness.”
BRISBANE COURIER: “Brilliant books on business and salesmanship,
all packed with sound advice. These volumes ought to be read by
every business man, by every salesman, and by every boy who is
entering upon a business life.”
THE SUN (Auckland) : ‘ ‘All his books are worthy of a place on every
business man’s bookshelf.’
OTAGO DAILY TIMES (N.Z.): “Mr. Casson’s volumes are full of
the most ingenious suggestions, evidently drawn from an extensive
experience."
JOURNAL OF THE RETAIL TRADERS’ ASSOCIATION (Sydney):
“Teems with helpful hints for every business man.”
THE REGISTER (Adelaide): ‘ ‘Mr. Casson simply talks commonsense.
His practical and forceful enthusiasm is infectious.”
I’LL GUARANTEE YOU GET
\A VALUABLE IDEA FROM
r\EVERY PAGE YOU OPEN
%\ IN THESE BOOKS I
DF
That’s what a recent buyer
said. He opened one book
and became so interested
that he insisted on delivery
of some of the books before
the whole set was ready!
(We have caught up with
orders, so prompt de-
liveries are now being
made.)
DELIVERED TO YOUR
HOME FOR
FIRST PAYMEN’
OF
F
TEAR OFF
DF
ORDER
FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
Please send me the CASSON BUSINESS LIBRARY, 12 volumes, I
enclose the first instalment of 7/6 and agree to make 7 further monthly
payments of 10/-. The price for cash within 30 days is £3/10/- (a
saving ot 7/6).
NAME OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS ..
Freight is extra, but in no case will it exceed 1/6.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m
m
gip
"sir
m i
: r:r^r
Hi
■
M
I '
K
■ i
•Mi
■
5 " :
Hi
H
P I
JSW#
■
*»', ~i
"v/;. ■
■
I
wm
n
.a
tH
. ■ ■
•Mbs *
HH
■/v.y
II ii
i *
mm
nt
I
:■>
'mSSm
u
»»»
■
n i
SH
ns
IH
■
KVP\
H
■
H
:...
I
km
HiHI
»30
* M-
mm
WM
m
* i|i
I : H
: I
I
MB
1
■M
iftMl
h n
■
i 1
Hi
m
m mm
w
*
HH
'
WM
m
m
m
H
■-:
2*
8 . -
&
s
i m
i
M. “
Kill
MM
I i Hi
: ■ : ■ Q >.'..i ; :; v -: : slil
Labelling Department—Bottling from' One of the Vast Storage Cellars.
JJffi'ii lifnetfiuU niellomneUandlmiqmt


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2934.
May 6, 1936.
“HUMANITARIANISM” TRIUMPHS.
“Get along with you, hangman—your occupation’s gone! They hired you to inflict a swift death; and call it ‘barbarous.’ They hire me to
inflict a living death; and call it ‘humane.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William direct, Adelaide.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne. Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London. E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
LEAGUERS DEMAND WAR.
Despite a record of shifty self-preservation, impo-
tence and ineptitude that would be rich comedy if
it were not just now a tragedy of disillusionment to
many misled people, the League of Nations continues
to be boosted and bolstered up by romantic apologists.
Embalmed and pedestailed, it is effigy of worship to
these noisy, though dwindling, new revivalists, and
we are asked to look upon this frightful mummy, if
not with pleasure, at least with forbearance, and pay
for the privilege.
That misrepresentation is a large part of this
bolstering is not remarkable. What is bolstered is
itself a gross misrepresentation—this “peace” instru-
ment which has no meaning to men other than that,
in the cause of some hypothetical peace, it leads them
perilously towards actual war. The thing that really
is remarkable is that the bolsterers can still get any-
one to believe them, believe in them, or even listen
to them. Including the plain man who judges purely
by performance, everyone might be thought by now
to have enough evidence for a most conclusive judg-
ment. But the pitiful truth is that, if the League can
wriggle out of its latest ludicrous impasse by the self-
preserving methods employed in somehow getting
around its past difficulties, there will still be people
gullible enough to believe in it, as there will be people
with the naivete or the effrontery to suggest that others
should be prepared to fight for its preservation.
They are making this suggestion loudly and
shamelessly now. There can be no doubt about what
England’s holyrollers who call themselves the League
of Nations Union really want. They want war. They
want it quick and large and dirty. There is no limit
to their armchair ferocity. It is not even worth men-
tioning that their ambitions involve another generation
of our youth going out to suffer, die and rot. That
would be a proper and natural price to pay in sacri-
fice to the god they worship.
The Union, which, according to League propa-
gandists, “has considerable influence,” demands the
closing of the Suez Canal, a colossal impertinence
which, we are told, “has received wide attention at
Geneva.” There could be only one result of such
ruthless lawbreaking. It would mean war, as these
frantic Leaguers very well know. The excuse is that
“the Union believes the situation is desperate, calling
for desperate measures.” What situation? The British
Commonwealth is not threatened ; world peace is not
threatened ; the life of not a single Christian body is
threatened.
There is threat to only one thing: the corpse of
the League of Nations is threatened with the indignity
of burial without military honors. What these
Leaguers ask us is to supply the firing party.
Only one thing equals this effrontery'—the arrant
cowardice which inspires it. The League tackled Italy
in the first place because it was felt that here, at last,
was something weak enough to ensure it a victory.
When Japan took ex-League action, it found Japan
guilty—an ignorant finding, as most people are begin-
ning to realise —but it wriggled and sidestepped the
issue itself had created. When Germany, exasperated
at the League’s subservience to its avowed enemy the
Soviet, also took action, Germany, too, was branded
guilty, and again the League baulked the issue. Those
are merely two of its shabby evasions when opposed to
strength. But Italy—ltaly was “peculiarly amenable,”
so it was thought; Italy was the least of the Great
Powers, and the adjective was questionable; the
Italians were not a warlike people, and would disin-
tegrate with a little pressure, A soft snap: and so
the League acted. And in this action —the first attempt
to appear what it is misrepresented to be—it failed
so utterly that burial is all that awaits it.
But, like the corpse of Lenin, it has become a
vested interest, to be preserved at whatever cost. That
is the spirit in which these Leaguers are insisting that
we should fight. Given the faintest hint of our willing-
ness, and the League’s propaganda machine will begin
again telling us that Italy is a weak and weakening
country, that it is torn with internal dissension, that
Mussolini is a lunatic, that the Italians cannot fight,
that they are digging over the old battlefields for
unused shells, so bankrupt are they ; all the ugly stock
lies that made the Australian war-cable service a
vicious danger and a monstrous absurdity four
months ago.
By this cowardly means shall we be fired with the
desire to be heroes. “Sanctions” having miserably
failed to humiliate Italy and thus keep the League
invalid alive, our next step must be to reproduce the
miracle of resurrection by slaughter.
Thus Leaguers strain to cut the leash and let loose
the wretched dogs who would fight for them. “Choice
is narrowed to a more active and a more courageous
League policy, even involving the risk of immediate
war, and abandonment of the League,” That is how
it is put. It would be “courageous” to war for the
League ; the alternative is “abandonment” and what
that word implies.
These Leaguers need telling flatly that we are
past being impressed by such appeals to our primitive
instincts. They and the people affected by their “con-
siderable influence” urgently need a brake on them,
and it could be applied from nowhere more effectively
than from the Dominions, where the people do not
want war, and will not have war at all on these terms.
The silence of the “leaders” of these people should
not be taken too seriously in Britain. It will be an
even deeper silence if ever it comes to risking their
seats by calling upon another generation of our youth
to go out and die in such a cause.
WOOL AND THE FUTURE.
In the season just closed Australia was again on the
sheep’s back. The Bulletin said at the beginning
that a return of £45,000,000 Australian was assured
and up to £55,000,000 might be obtained. The actual
wool cheque was £52,000,000.
Average price was 14d. a pound, or £l7 10s. a bale
—up 4d. a pound and £4 17s. a bale. Fat lambs sold
well, and sheep prices were uniformly higher. The
results are seen in increased employment, increased
spending and taxation buoyancy.
Externally, as internally, the situation was very
satisfactory. Every pound of wool we grew' was not
only saleable at a good price but saleable in the right
quarters. Britain maintained its supremacy as a buyer
—over a million bales of wool and six million carcasses
of mutton and lamb went to J. Bull. Japan bought
over 600,000 bales, and the time seems to be
approaching when it will take a million bales. The
lines Japanese manufacturers buy are the staple of
Australia’s world trade, for which there is strong com-
petition, so their bidding has a substantial effect on
prices.
The spectre of artificial fibres is dangled before
the noses of graziers as if it threatened their exist-
ence. That it does nothing of the kind the figures
clearly show, Australia’s wool production is 50 p.c.
bigger than before the war. In the last pre-war year
average price per pound was 44d. less than in the
season just passed, and total value of exports (local
purchases were small) was only £26,277,000.
Rayon and other artificial fibres began to be
manufactured on a large scale in 1924-25, and
output increases every season. Nevertheless, we
are selling a million bales of wool more than
in 1924-25. The fact that Japan’s rayon output
developed nearly 50 p.c. last year did not prevent
that country from buying more wool, for there has
been and still is going on an expansion in the use
of Western clothing, which has already put eight in
every ten Japanese into vests and trousers and socks.
Our own Australian wool-manufacturing and
-treating industry is growing by leaps and bounds.
During the year mills in the Commonwealth were
the best buyers of fair-to-good-length spinning wools
—over 300,000 bales.
Despite all this, some growers are sad, and
there is to be an advertising campaign, to cost
£lOO,OOO p.a. for five years. It has the approval
of British manufacturers, who naturally will have an
indirect result from it. The money is to be spent on
newspapers, posters, films and exhibitions designed
to make people “wool-minded” —people buying more
wool than ever before. A representative of British
manufacturers told the graziers that the industry
“refused to be beaten by the chemist,” and he “pleaded
with his hearers to make the wool campaign a
reality.”
The sum it is proposed to spend would not im-
pose much of a burden on the industry. It represents
i p.c. of the average value of the clip over the past
five years. But there is so much internal work to
be done that it might be far better spent. Mr. G. D.
Kelly, chairman of the Woolgrowers’ Council, hit the
nail on the head when he pointed out that “with a
clip worth about £40,000,000 a year the Australian
wool industry is spending corporatively £2500
a year on research.” While C.S.I.R. research
is starved, the blowfly extends its ravages, bore-
water supplies diminish and erosion menaces
parts of Victoria, N. S, Wales, South Australia
and Queensland. Immense losses of sheep and wool,
surely preventible, are sorry features of every drought.
And producers still have to choose between waiting
months after the sales for their wool cheques and pay-
ing for month-to-month accommodation at bank-
interest rates.
The problem for the next few years is to keep
production of wool of the classes for which there is
always a ready sale, and which no other country can
grow, up to the level of the world’s average demand.
Had there been another 250,000 bales of certain classes
of fleece for sale this season, it would have gone off
without affecting market prices, Australia has
8,000,000 fewer sheep than in 1933.
There is plenty of internal work on which money
might be spent to improve average quality, rearrange
proportions of certain types of fleece, assure the future
in regard to water, drought and disease and improve
carrying capacity. Governments can help by reducing
taxes and service charges to reasonable levels, and
by abolishing imposts such as the “special” tax on
property income, which helps to keep mortgage interest
high, and the Federal land tax, which in bad years
amounts to a tax on capital.
JAMES v. THE COMMONWEALTH.
“On the imposition of uniform duties of customs,
which uniform duties have been imposed for 30 years,
“trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navi-
gation, shall be absolutely free,” So says Section 92
of the Commonwealth Constitution, and Quick and
Garran had no doubt as to what was in the minds ot
the men who drafted it.
This section is intended to provide for the perfect
freedom of trade and commerce among the States. In
order to secure that object, the strongest possible words
have been used. Nothing has been left to implication.
What does this “perfect freedom” amount to?
The right to introduce goods, wares and merchandise
from one State into another, the right to sell the same
and the right to travel [in order to sell] unburdened
by State restrictions, regulations or obstructions.
This “right to travel in order to sell” has disappeared.
It was held two years ago, as the N. S. Wales Com-
missioner of Railways gleefully reported, that “com-
petition by motor-lorries registered in Victoria carry-
ing goods across the border is an infringement of the
N. S. Wales Transport Act”—in other words, that a
State Government may impose restrictions, in effect
prohibitive, on commercial motor vehicles bringing
goods from another State. Whether “the right to
sell,” thus limited, remains or whether Section 92 is
a ruin should be determined by the judgment in
James v. the Commonwealth, which seems to have
reached the Privy Council at last.
James is a South Australian dealer in dried fruits.
He has been a thorn in the side of interests benefiting
from “control” and others which profit by sectional
fixing of prices unregulated by competition, competi-
tion being unlawful. He successfully challenged legis-
lation introduced in S.A. by arrangement with the
Federal Government, giving power to a State
board to fix the quantity of dried fruits which
a dealer might sell within the Commonwealth.
After that the central Government appointed
each State board as its agent, with power to issue
licenses for inter-State trading. Dealers applying for
licenses had to declare that they would conform to
export quotas fixed by the Commonwealth and State
Governments. James objected, and, although the
High Court was against him, it granted him leave
to appeal to the Privy Council,,
James, of course, takes his stand on Section 92.
If he succeeds, it will be impossible to set arbitrary
limits to supplies of dried fruits to be sold within the
Commonwealth, a proceeding indispensable to
“orderly marketing,” which, over a period of six years,
is reckoned to have put £230,000 p.a. into the pockets
of growers of sultanas, lexias and currants, by the
process of selling dear at home and cheap abroad.
But dried fruits is only one of the industries that will
be affected by the Privy Council judgment, and im-
portant political questions are concerned.
Attorney-General Menzies is appearing for the
Commonwealth. It came out recently that he had
also accepted a brief from Victoria, whose Govern-
ment has chosen to identify its interests with those
of the Commonwealth Government, and the pro-
priety of this was very properly questioned by Mr.
Maurice Blackburn and other members of the Labor
party. Mr. Menzies was defended by the Prime Min-
ister and Mr. Hughes, and the latter read a cablegram
from his colleague saying, among other things, that
he was “appearing before the Privy Council for the
Government of the Commonwealth and for the State
of Victoria only.” In a published report of an inter-
state conference of Dried Fruits Boards, “the alloca-
tion of the legal expenses of Mr. Menzies, K.C.
(Federal Attorney-General),” was mentioned by the
chairman, a Victorian, and it was expressly stated that
“the Victorian Government would provide £750 and
the dairying industry £750.”
As to the £750 to be found by the dried-fruits
industry, it was suggested that three, possibly four,
parties should find the amount—the Australian Dried
Fruits Association £3OO, the Victorian Dried Fruits
Board £3OO and the S.A. Dried Fruits Board £l5O.
So if the fee from Victoria amounts to 2000 guineas,
as has been stated, though Mr. Menzies is dealing with
the Victorian Government only it is difficult to believe
that the Victorian Government is providing the lot.
The N.S.W. and Queensland Governments are
also intervening on behalf of the Commonwealth,
being represented by Mr. Manning, the N. S. Wales
Attorney-General. The Westralian and Tasmanian
Governments are intervening against the Common-
wealth on the ground, as the Tasmanian Treasurer, Mr.
Dwyer-Gray, has put it, that “freedom of trade for
the States comprising the Federation is vital to Tas-
mania’s existence.” The S.A. Government is officially
neutral; it was stated in the report of the confer-
ence of Dried Fruits Boards that “the S.A. Govern-
ment would not sanction taxpayers’ money being used
in sharing in Mr. Menzies’s costs.” Actually taxpayers’
money is being used to back both sides.
Mr. Hughes, has painted a harrowing picture of
what will happen if James succeeds again.
Hideous legal chaos will follow. An adverse decision
will result in the wrecking of the various marketing
schemes. The Commonwealth will lose its powers to
legislate in respect of inter-State trade and a large body
of existing legislation will become ultra vires. We shall
be forced to consider the making of an amendment of
the Constitution.
“They” will be forced to consider Constitutional
amendments whether they win or lose. Certainly if
the most pregnant part of the Constitution—the
nation-making section —is ruled out, it will be diffi-
cult to preserve what will remain of the Federal
system. It will scarcely be worth preserving. Aus-
tralia will have to choose between Union, with clarity,
and colonialism, with chaos.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Yes, Mr. Baldwin!”
Father Bull has some clumsy servants these days,
and Australia has some clumsy servants who are
abjectly submissive to the clumsy servants of Father
Bull.
It was perhaps inevitable that clumsy fellows in
the British Government would take advantage of
Canberra’s “Yes, Mr. Eden!” attitude on the “sanc-
tions” issue to press for further concessions to British
Government policy, but it was never imagined
that the British Government would interfere in Aus-
tralian affairs to the extent of protesting against a
vote of the House of Representatives on a purely
Australian matter, still under discussion, and “assum-
ing” that the Government will have it overridden.
Yet it has been done in these terms:
The Government of the U.K. has learned with con-
cern that the House of Representatives has declined to
give effect to the recommendations of the Tariff Board
with regard to the duties on cement and sanitary earthen-
ware. In view of the provisions of the Ottawa agree-
ment, the Government of the U.K. is confident that it
can assume that steps will be taken by the Common-
wealth Government to secure that the recommendations
of the Tariff Board will be put into effect.
This kind of dictation may go down when the
other party is Iraq, Johore or Zanzibar. But Aus-
tralia is no vassal-State.
Cement is the item now under consideration.
There have been import duties on it for 22 years.
Down to November last year the preferential duty
on the British article was a shilling a hundredweight;
in November it was removed in consequence of a
Tariff Board recommendation, the board alleging that
excessive profits had been made and saying some-
thing about inefficiency. Both charges have been
denied, and the allegation of inefficiency seems incon-
sistent with the fact that the reputation of Australian
cement stands very high, while the profits of the most
important cement companies (periodically recorded in
the “Wild Cat” columns) have been nothing out of
the way. No Australian Stock Exchange has ever
witnessed a blackguard rush to buy cement-co. shares.
Viewing all the circumstances, and particularly
bearing in mind that admission of British cement duty-
free might spell ruin to companies in small States
which have too many grievances against the Com-
monwealth already, the House declared for a duty
of sixpence a hundredweight. This was carried against
the Government, and in abject subservience to Down-
ing-street the Government has since represented it as
repudiation of a vital clause of the Ottawa agreement
to which it and Downing-street are parties. Opinions
of four King’s Counsel are to the effect that it is
nothing of the kind. In any case, the Australian
Parliament did not surrender its rights when certain
Ministers signed for their Government at Ottawa.
Yet if the Canberra-Downing-street interpretation is
correct, it would be in honor bound to acquiesce if the
Tariff Board recommended, not only the abolition of
one or two duties on British goods, but free admis-
sion of the lot.
It is on record that a British cement co, paid
a 20 p.c. dividend last year. This is far more than
any Australian cement co. approaching its size has
ever paid. With a vast and expanding home market
open to British cement interests, it seems rather mean
of them to want to grab trade from small concerns in
Westralia and Tasmania, Nor should the British
Government be so intent on helping them to grab it.
If the foreign “policy” of Mr. Anthony Eden con-
tinues, we may need Australian cement for forts and
pillboxes.
*
South Africa Has No Illusions..
South Africa, with long first-hand experience of
bloody wars with white and black foes, has no illu-
sions about defence such as Australian politicians
cherish. The Boers, most democratic of peoples, en-
forced compulsory service in their commandoes
wherever they went, and when they entered the Empire
under the Union carried on with it with slight modi-
fications to suit the changing times. The Union’s
new Defence Bill elaborates and extends the burgher
system which has existed since the days of Van
Riebeck.
A five-year programme envisages the addition of
76 fighting aircraft with 1000 pilots, to be augmented
by civil aircraft capable of being converted into
bombers. Other additions will be an anti-tank bat-
talion, 10 batteries of artillery and 150,000 infantry
(Australia, with a white population three and a half
times that of. the white S’African population, has
27,000). Whether this last force will be in addition
to the mounted veldt commandoes is not stated. The
veldt Boer, though he fights on foot, likes mobility
above all else. In the big cities, however, there are
many infantry regiments or, at least, cadres ready
for extension in case of hostilities.
National service is at least as necessary to Aus-
tralia as it is to South Africa. But the party in power
is afraid to introduce it, and the party in opposition
execrates “conscription” while demanding conscrip-
tion in the trade-union world —even in the case of
Government employees reluctant to join the trade-
union army.
~—♦
The Wage-fixing Game.
One of the favorite recreations in N. S. Wales is fixing
wages. It is an all-the-year-round pastime, like golf,
and more people are engaged in it, for almost every-
one plays or looks on.
Wages of N. S. Wales Government railway
employees are fixed by a Federal Arbitration Judge
from Perth, with headquarters at Melbourne. On
points of industrial law his decisions may be upset
by the Full Bench of Arbitration Judges, whose deci-
sions may be upset by the High Court —and have been
time and again. Disputes of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment railway employees and employers have occu-
pied the Federal Judge from Perth, whose head-
quarters are at Melbourne, for several years, off and
on. Not long ago it was announced that they were
all settled, and there was a great distribution of feli-
citations, the Judge complimenting each set of dis-
putants, who complimented each other and the Judge.
When taxpayers saw the size of the bill that was to
be added to the accumulated deficit on the N. S. Wales
Government railways (£28,145,000 in 10 years), they
failed to echo the transports.
Federal arbitration might be called the Rugby
Union variety of the wage-fixing game. N. S. Wales
plays also a local or Rugby League variety. This
requires an elaborate apparatus, the chief of which
is an Industrial Commission, composed of three able
lawyers, together with bushels of papers, crowds of
advocates and clouds of witnesses. Every year a basic
wage has to be fixed for “adult male employees” and
another for “adult female employees.” Last year
months were occupied in efforts to discover what an
“unskilled female worker” requires for her “mini-
mum needs” in a twelvemonth —how many cloaks,
frocks, undergarments, nightgowns, hats, shoes, stock-
ings, hair-nets, bathing-suits, gamps, permanent waves,
bottles of perfume, boxes of face-powder, jars of
cream, lipsticks, hot baths (“put a penny in the slot”),
cakes of soap, and so on. All this evidence taken, the
commission solemnly retires to digest it.
After one of these long intervals for study and
reflection, £3 9s. per week, an increase of 6d., was
announced as the new basic wage for men, and £1
15s. 6d., a reduction of Is. 6d., as the basic wage
for women. Immediately there was a fearful row,
and many employers significantly announced that they
would not enforce the reduction, which became effec-
tive immediately. An agitated Government, after
consulting its caucus, introduced legislation rejecting
the new basic wage for women and ordering the com-
mission to make it 54 p.c. of what the men get. Why
it should be 54 p.c. and not 64 p.c. or 74 p.c. or 84
p.c, or 94 p.c. has not been satisfactorily explained.
But somebody,, it seems, remembered that “the 54 p.c.
principle was adopted by Mr. A. B. Piddington when
head of the Industrial Commission.” Mr. Piddington
was appointed by Mr. Lang. He resigned a few
months before his seven years’ term expired, as a
protest against the sending of Mr. Lang to the
country. In a sense, it is diverting to see the Govern-
ment borrowing his formula by way of struggling
out of a mess, though Parliamentary meddling jn
wage-fixing is no joke.
Instead of abolishing the Industrial Commission
and employing its members in other jurisdictions, in
some of which —divorce and matrimonial causes, for
instance —there is a long waiting list of cases, the
Government has obtained legislative authority to put
another lawyer on it. So the State variety of wage-
fixing game will go on and become a costlier nuisance
than ever.
—♦
Shall We Borrow in London Again?
In 1935 Australia’s national debt increased by
£18,000,000 to the astronomical sum of £1,255,154,410.
When the century opened the idea that Aus-
tralian Governments could owe one and a quarter
thousand millions would have seemed fantastic.
Present-day politicians take the fact in their stride.
Comparative figures for two years :
Commonwealth Debt —
1934 £394,492,806
1935 393,208,370
Owed in Aus. Owed in London. Owed in N.Y.
1934 .. £220,283,122 £157,533,139 £16,676,543
1935 .. 219,512,516 157,233,139 16,462,714
States’ Debts —
1934 £842,629,587
1935 861,946,039
Owed in Aus. Owed in London. Owed in N.Y.
1934 £423,615,216 £389,792,322 £29,222,048
1935 .. 443,960,669 388,973,822 29,011,548
Grand Total National Debt —
1934 £1,237,122,393
1935 1,255,154,410
Owed in Aus. Owed in London. Owed in N.Y.
1934 .. £643,898,338 £547,325,461 £45,898,592
1935 .. 663,473,185 546,206,961 45,474,263
In the light of these figures it is sheer madness
to talk of resuming borrowing in London. Such a
course would increase the difficulty of the overseas
trade position, and would simply amount to paying
overseas interest with borrowed money— i.e., out of
capital. It would be a confession of national inepti-
tude and bankruptcy. All the advantages gained
by such financial reforms as were effected during the
depression would be thrown away. ,
It is the plain duty of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to declare unequivocally that in no circum-
stances will it consider resumption of London bor-
rowing.
♦
A 40-hour Week?
Because of the attitude of trade-union leaders the
Commonwealth Government has abandoned the pro-
posed 40-hour-week inquiry. It would have been
useless to the public, but might have been convenient
to the Government, which dropped the thing rather
reluctantly. It now points out what it must have
known all the time, that provision is made in the
Arbitration Act to ensure full consideration by the
Court of any question of standard hours of work in
any industry.
In a general review the Government states that,
if reduction of working hours is more generally
adopted and found to be consistent with social,
economic and national interests, it will be prepared
to see that Australia does not lag behind the rest of
the world.
But a survey of the world position indicates that
the 40-hour-week has very limited application except
in the U.S.A., and the outlook in that country is
uncertain. In Canada hat and cloak factories work
40 hours. Not so the great export industries ; nor
could the alleged boon be extended in this country
to primary industries, which have to sell in the world’s
markets, and many of which are receiving forms of
Government relief. As for secondary industries,
enforcement of the 40-hour week by any one State
would put its factories out of business.
Even if it were thought advisable to make 40
hours the limit in Australian factories and workshops,
the Commonwealth Government could not do it. Con-
stitutional limitations forbid. But they do not exist
in Maoriland. There an enthusiastic young Labor
Government has brought in a Factories Bill which
makes the 40-hour week compulsory (though there
is a rather long list of exceptions), interdicts reduction
of adult pay and grants increases to juniors. Aus-
tralians might well wait and see how this experiment
shapes. It would be an interesting change—rarely in
these latter years has it found Maoriland ready to be
“the mug.” And delay for purposes of study would
not be felt as a grievance by housewives, doctors,
nurses and multitudes of others to whom five working
days of eight hours are an unrealisable dream, what-
ever politicians may decide.
♦—
“More Urgent.”
A sequel to the Dragon Rapide crash on a North
Australian air route was a request in Parliament by
A. M. Blain that the Government undertake the
urgent work of providing accurate maps of N.T. air
routes, combined with the installation of beacon and
wireless-direction stations.
Mr. Parkhill’s reply was that beacons would be
“installed as rapidly as possible, but other localities
will receive preference over the N.T. on the ground
that the erection of beacons in those localities is more
urgent.”
All the other main routes are, in a manner of
speaking, beaconed already. They have railway lines,
with towns every few miles. The Brisbane-Cairns
air route runs along the sea coast the whole way. But
the Camooweal-Darwin section has no landmarks for
hundreds of miles when the grass grows, no water fo,r
tens of miles and no emergency landing-grounds worth
mentioning. These routes carry regular commercial
traffic in the largest ’planes in use in the Common-
wealth.
The Newcastle Waters-Port Hedland route is
across sand and forest country, in which to land in
emergency means inevitable injury to ’plane and prob-
ably to pilots and passengers. And the cost of rescue
work in even the more accessible country and the
risks of finding lost crews dead in it have been driven
home by the recent experience. Defence Department
’planes flew over the vicinity of the Dragon Rapide
a week before it was found.
However, among the things of which these regions
are devoid are voles.
Achievement of the A.M.P.
“Australians are undisciplined,” said War Office
pundits—in 1915, but not in 1918; “Australians are
unthrifty”—the gibe is still heard. A.M.P. figures
show how hollow it is.
The A.M.P. carries 494,000 life policies, one to
every 13 Australians, one to every three families. And
it is only one of 28 life offices operating in Australia,
six of them mutual. In addition, the A.M.P. carries
one industrial policy to a little over every 10 persons.
The average value of each life policy is about
£5OO, of which £lOO is represented by bonuses.
A.M.P, assets are valued at £101,800,000. Last
year, including interim bonuses, a surplus of
£3,073,000 was distributed by the society—about 9s.
per head of population. It paid £281,000 in taxes
and found £2,841,000 to meet death commitments,
which included over £1,000,000 in bonus additions.
It has £57,689,000 on loan to Governments—British
and Maoriland, as well as Australian —and local-
governing bodies.
The A.M.P. has been built up with Australian
money by Australian ability. Virtually all its direc-
torate and its higher management are Australian-born
and -trained. It is a living example of how the mutual
principle may be used to provide safe investment for
the small man.
♦
A Transport Complex.
From “Uncle, M.D.”:
Looking at the railway-road war now raging in Queens-
land, one is inclined to suggest that some cause other than
trade-union control may be responsible for Minister Dash’s
ruthless outlook on road transport. Not long before the
conflict began in earnest, that gentleman was seriously injured
when one of his department’s rail-motors crashed the gates
at a level-road crossing on the North Coast line. His con-
dition for some time after caused anxiety.
It is commonplace knowledge to-day that a frequent
sequel to a sudden and serious accident is the development
of a complex based on some circumstance of the accident.
It does not affect general mentality, it usually disappears
after a period of months or years, and is capable of control
by its possessor once he recognises its existence.
The circumstances tally closely. The transport war did
not begin in earnest until some little time after the accident.
But for a road crossing the railway there would have been
no gates, and hence no smash. In reality, the road was
the essential cause of the smash. The subconscious brain
works mainly on purely cause-and-result lines. A subcon-
scious anti-climax towards roads as dangerous foes of railways
would be the natural thing to ensue.
That particular North Coast road would, in it, be the
most dangerous of them all. Roads are intended primarily
for motor traffic; motor-traffic thus becomes a dangerous
accomplice of the already dangerous roads, particularly
the most dangerpus of all, the North Coast road, which
caused the accident. It might fully justify £306 fines and
forcible seizure of vehicles, on that road especially.
Even the awakening of conscious control is evident
—Mr. Dash has stated that he listened-in to that Brisbane
protest meeting in order to obtain some constructive sugges-
tions. It constitutes a definite admission that present methods
do not fully satisfy him —otherwise, constructive suggestion
would not be needed by him. Also •it offers hope that the
subconscious complex is fading or being brought under
conscious control. I shall feel annoyed if any political
accident should remove Mr. Dash from office before the
complex fades and peace is signed between road and rail.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Shep'’: I’ve heard many plausible
tales put over by thirsty Diggers, but this
was an Anzac Day special. With hordes
of ex-warriors we squeezed within arms’
reach of the pub bar, and from the
street, above the incessant clatter, came
a cornet’s strains, playing what seemed
to us a medley of every war song ever
written crammed info one breath. Bag-
pipes would have sounded like grand
opera to it. Suddenly a sozzled, dis-
hevelled figure with liquor-stained rib-
bons on his chest confronted us. “D’jer
’ear that blanky awful row outside just
now,” he asked us. We admitted that
we had. “Well, I made it,” he confided,
passing his battered hat around.
“Kellick”: Anzac Day reminds me.
A few years ago a petty officer at Flin-
ders Naval Depot was hauled over the
coals for failing to wear war medals. He
admitted having pawned them, “coat and
all,” and offered as excuse his inability
to get work after demobilisation in
England. A few months later the
C.O. sent for him and handed to him his
medals. “Here you are, my man,” he
said. “I want you to know that medals
are more important than a meal. Well,
aren’t you going to say ‘thank you’?”
The answer made even the skipper smile.
“Well, sir, I was wondering if you knew
what happened to my coat.”
* * * *
“Puritan”: An inquirer in the Service
Column (B. 29/4/’36) asked if there
were any descendants of Oliver Crom-
well living. There is a family in Indiana,
U.S.A., which claims direct descent from
the Protector, and keeps up the name
of Oliver in every generation. It may
have descended through the Protector’s
second son, of whom little is known.
* * # *
“Cruiskeen”: An interesting excise
case is reported from Ireland, where a
man was charged with being in illegal
possession of potheen “by having' it in
his stomach” and convicted. This paral-
lels a case at Mungindi (N.S.W.) in the
days of the State Customs. A tippler
who had long been regarded as a public
enemy by the N.S.W. officials one night
filled up on the Queensland side of the
town and then crossed into N.S.W. and
paraded his condition before the enraged
authorities. The matter never came into
court, but the drunk was found on the
bridge next morning with his pockets
turned inside out and a revenue stamp
pasted on his stomach.
* * * *
“S. Hill”: Two N.S.W. members of
the team for the Olympic Games, a
wrestler and an oarsman, are sons of
Lebanese. They were entertained the
other night, and one of the speakers was
an M.L.C. whose forebears also came
from Lebanon. Lebanese and Syrians
(they make a distinction now) are rare in
other Australian cities, and in some are
almost unknown, but in Sydney there is
a flourishing colony of them, and its
young men take to sport as ducks to
water: the Rugby Union has several
playing first grade and others have been
professional boxers of some eminence.
Nowadays there are Republics of Syria
and Lebanon and Territories of Lakatia
and Jebel Druze, all under French pro-
tection. The French Consul-General was
at the send-off to the Lebanese-Australian
Olympians. Almost since the time of the
Crusades, France has taken a more or
less benevolent interest in Syria, and
every French army band has to learn
“Partant pour Syrie.”
* * * $
“Pamac”: The late Sydney Kid-
man “neither drank* smoked nor
swore” (B. 15/4/’36). Quite true, and
few who knew him will forget the
strongest term of opprobrium he per-
mitted himself. A man be-damned
and blasted by most cattlemen was never
described by Kidman as anything worse
than “a jolly tinker.”
*.* # *
“S.G.”: Long ago North Coolgardie
had a Bulletin hotel. It was run by a
sociable soul named Webb, perhaps a
connection of the newspaperman of the
same name who signs Bulletin articles
when they have to be signed. [No. —B.]
Webb prided himself on his friendship
“I'm afraid We'll have io starve this fever out of your wife, Mr.
McSporran."
“Ah, Weel — fever's nae sae bad a complaint, after a'!"
with Henry Lawson, whose verses he
would recite by the yard, and did well
while ounce-stone lasted. But bad times
came, the Bulletin hotel was closed, and
Mulgaland swallowed Webb up. Quarter
of a century went by. Then the Wiluna
people, beginning operations in earnest
on their big mine, borrowed The Bul-
letin’s title for one of their leases. They
have struck good ore in their Bulletin
lease. A recent report had it that “the
north drive at the 625 ft. level has been
advanced 64ft. in ore averaging 295. per
ton over a width of Bft. without the full
width being exposed,” while “a crosscut
has exposed ore averaging 30s. over a
width of 35ft.”
* 4 $ ¥
“M.L.C.”: Quaint headlines from a
Tassie newspaper:
Fine Weather at Lyell.
399 Points of Rain in Six Days.
Presumably nothing under 12 inches of
rain a week is regarded as really
glorious weather at Lyell.
“Selma”: The other day our local
police received an agitated ring from a
woman who breathlessly advised that
there was a lunatic at large “running
round in circles near the water tower.”
A stalwart constable made haste in the
direction indicated, and saw from afar
a hatless and coatless man behaving as
described. The p.c. stole up softly
behind his quarry—and was efficiently
stung. He then realised the cause of the
“lunatic’s” gyrations, and though ham-
pered by a fast-closing orb dashed gal-
lantly to the rescue. But relief came
from an unexpected source; a woman
arrived with a sprayer filled with fly-
exterminator. Half a dozen whiffs made
the bees remember an important engage-
ment elsewhere.
“Ethno”: Touching these hairy Ainus
(B. 29/4/’36), when the Japanese squad-
ron was here 25 years ago you could pick
out here and there —one in a hundred,
perhaps—a man partially bearded or
faintly whiskered, who didn’t conform
to the ordinary type. What struck me
most about them —apart from the facial
upholstery—was that they were generally
bigger and more muscular-looking. The
Ency. Brit, says that the Ainus were the
ancient aborigines of the country, driven
north to the island of Yezo and other
outlying fastnesses by an invading race,
the ancestors of the Japanese we know-
to-day. In fact, much the same fate
seems to have overtaken them as hap-
pened to our own Celtic and early Brit-
ish ancestors when Saxons and Jutes and
Danes overran their land. But the Welsh-
man and Cornishman are as a rule a
trifle undersized, compared with the
Saxon and the Norman. It is easier to
understand how the small, dark people
went under to the large, blond invader
than to understand how the hefty hirsute
Ainus were dispossessed of their hold-
ings by the short, slight, smooth-faced
Asiatics from the mainland.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The Ainus
of Yezo grow the finest face foliage in
the world, and transmit the same fertility
to crossbreds. That set on the Portland
Maru seaman certainly indicates an Ainu
strain ; any collection of elderly Ainus
will show a length and staple of scalp-tar-
paulins and collision-mats that make the
pictures of the patriarchs in our old
family Bible look like the “before using”
side of a hair-tonic advertisement. Ainus
are a white race, but their often handsome
and dignified heads seem to contain no-
thing but bone within. Few are left, and
those mainly in Yezo.
5k v *-k i\i
“Ex-Geraldtonian”: Most people know
that Gallipoli is pretty handy to ancient
Troy, but in Gallipoli: The Fading
Vision, by John North (B. 29/4/’36), one
may read:
It is perhaps significant that in the un-
romantic Australian official history the only
mention of Troy is that of a private soldier
of the name, born in the severely unclassi-
cal locality of Geraldton,
This Troy, who wins mention as the only
survivor of a desperate action, is pre-
sumably the son of an old-time West-
ralian police inspector and goldfields
warden. But I don’t know why Gerald-
ton should be dubbed a “severely un-
classical locality.” Every part of Aus-
tralia is utterly modern, of course, judged
by Homeric or any other standards, but
this particular slab of it has historical
associations that go back into the dim
red dawn of the continent’s history-
make it almost classical, in fact. On the
Abrolhos Islands, not far away, some
hundreds of wrecked Dutchmen fell
upon one another and pillaged and rioted
and slew till 125 of them had passed out.
And that was in 1629 —a century before
Captain Cook was born. The two men
marooned by Pelsart on the coast near
Champion Bay were, according to the
historian Battye, “the first white inhabi-
tants of the continent, so far as is
known.” In the historical sense, the sandy
seaport where our first settlers were
hustled ashore is the most classical place
in Australia.
❖ # *!< $
“Keg”: I leave artists to criticise the
merits or demerits of the police pictorial
warning to motorists which glares from
the tollgate of the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
As a first-aid man, however, I think the
motorist wants shooting, not for the acci-
dent, but for his handling of the patient.
If the child is suffering from primary
shock, the look on the driver’s face
would quickly turn it to something worse.
If it is only a simple fracture, his method
of holding the victim would most likely
bring about penetration of an organ or
artery by the broken ends of the bone.
If the spine is injured, the driver is
doing his best to kill the child by rais-
ing the upper part of the body. On
second thoughts, perhaps it is the artist
who wants shooting.
* * *
“C.H.S.”: Startling headlines from a
recent Sydney “Sun” poster:
NINE MORE OLYMPIANS.
TWO TO HANG.
$ sk sjc £
“Ras fieri”: Diggers who went
through Dunkirk will remember the long-
range gun “Max,” which dropped its
messages in that town with such regu-
larity that the civic
authorities had a
siren rigged to
warn all and sun-
dry a few minutes
before the shell
arrived. Touring
the old scenes re-
cently I paid a call
on Max and found
it skilfully con-
cealed in. a small
clump of forest
about 40 miles
from Dunkirk. The
gun, of phenomenal
size but small
calibre, had been
cleverly built into
a huge concrete
pit, complete with
de luxe quarters
for the crew. On
their hurried de-
parture, the Ger-
mans tried to de-
press the muzzle
below its concrete
parapet, and fired
a charge in the
hope of blowing the
gun off its mount-
ings. The only re-
sult was that a
large section of concrete was removed
holus-bolus and the shell exploded
harmlessly further on. A French peasant
to whom the gun. and emplacement
reverted along with his land after the
war was making a heap of francs from
tourists out of the twin of Big Bertha.
The name and date on the barrel in-
trigued me; “Krupp, Essen, June, 1914”!
5k % # %
“S.F.W.”: A fire in a fire-brigade
station must be an unusual if not unpre-
cedented event, but it happened the other
day in South Dunedin. An engine from
the central station had to be requisitioned.
* * * *
“The Paarl”: Not every newspaper is
game to tell a story against itself. In its
jubilee number the “Cape Times” tells
of what must be almost the most perfect
misprint. Recording a reception to Joe
Chamberlain at Constantia in 1903 the
“Times” told of the galaxy of wisdom,
manliness and beauty gathered on the
stoep of an old Dutch house, and added
that they were
panting painfully with the monotony
peculiar to the breed and giving forth
the pungent aroma peculiar to their species
which was rather more prominent than
enjoyable.
A dropped lino, slug which referred to a
number of what were then newfangled
motor-cars was responsible for the mix-
up.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Recently a 12,000-gallon
petrol-tank, weighing six and a half tons,
was taken per motor-jinker along the
Prince’s Highway from Melbourne to
Warragul; a record load for the road.
The driver kept'carefully to the centre
of the roadway. All travelling motor-
ists seemed to realise the necessity for
his precaution except one —the lady driver
of a Baby Austin, who kept behind him
for five or six miles, frantically tooting
for him to get over to one side.
A BURNING QUESTION.
•‘MFi 1 . Ward (1 Jib,, E. Sydney) made a desperate
list, -hour appeal in the House of Heps, that the
Government should insist on the inclusion of Miss
Clarice Kennedy in tin: Olympic Games team..,,
Uproar greeted the statement tlml, the nuttier was
not. one for the national Parliament."
What do they mean, the bellow and the babel,
fhe shouting and the tumult and the roar?
Why do some tribunes thump so hard the table
And others stamp so savagely the floor?
What knotty problem is it that engages
Statesmen whose names may shine on
history's scrolls
To send them into such unseemly rages
And “freeze the genial current of their
souls”?
What cause is there for all this spleen and
dolor
The legislative atmosphere that tills?
And why do some grosv hot beneath the collar
And others turkey-like about the gills?
What makes some dials blaze and others
harden,
’Mid war of pungent words and baleful
glares.
Until the House suggests the sort of garden
traditionally occupied by bears?
These fierce appeals, these hoarse vituperations,
These animosities that rive and rend
Might fit debates on which the fate of nations
(Or, anyhow, of Governments) depend.
Is Lyons’ tenure of his job uncertain,
His alley in? Do circumstances point
To the unfailingly discursive Curtin
To boss the show and dominate the joint?
Perish the thought! Far more important issues
Provoke the cheers and yells and howls and
hoots
That thrill contending factions to their tissues
And set the gallery shaking in its boots.
The cause of all tile clatter and the clapper,
The raison d'etre of this appalling din
fs simply whether a hurdle-leaping (tapper
Should —or should not —be taken to Berlin l
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Balaclava”: If certain worthy and
unimaginative people have their way an
equestrian statue of George V. will be
thrust on Melbourne. I question whether
any of these persons ever saw his late
Majesty on horseback. I had that privi-
lege, and the spectacle was not imposing.
But the fifth George was impressive
seated at a microphone addressing “my
people.” For visual evidence I have only
photographs to go by, but those I have
seen gave the right touch of dignity and
pathos to a memory that will remain with
millions ; that of a king grown old and
wise, and soon to die, speaking to his
subjects in five continents in a full, rich
voice as a father to his children. That
is the George who ought to be preserved
in bronze or marble for future genera-
tions of Victorians to gaze at —ra twen-
tieth-century ruler, not a mediaeval
figure on a ridiculous horse.
H« He H*
“Kellick”: Recently a company of
men from H.M.A.S. Canberra marched,
with King’s colors uncased, to the Sydney
Domain. Yet, whilst 99 per cent, of the
onlookers would remove headgear should
the National Anthem be played, only
one person saluted the colors. No doubt
in these peaceful times the significance
of the King’s colors is not grasped by the
civilian population.
* SH * *
“Captain Pintle”: As I was fishing off-
shore there came a vision of grace and
beauty to take one’s mind back for forty
years and more. It was the topmast
schooner Huia, with everything set' and
the bone in her teeth, making a long
board in a good sailing breeze. But for
her somewhat larger size she is the twin
sister of the Dancing Wave, famous in
blackbirding days, who left her bones
on Sudbury Reef, N.Q. Maoriland-built
in 1894, the Huia is now owned by
Nobel’s, and carries cargoes which are
dangerous shipmates for steam boilers.
She has a Diesel engine, but does most of
her work under sail. Her first skipper,
George McKenzie, was a Nova Scotia
man, and his nephew Dan succeeded him
until Dan took command of the barque
Dartford, Wellington to San Francisco.
Captain Lane, her present master, fol-
lowed him, and Australia’s only remain-
ing big topsail schooner could be in the
hands of no better hemp-and-canvas
sailorman,
* * * ♦
“Erua”: The new M.L. Government
aims at luring metho.-drinkers from their
evil ways by making the stuff more repul-
sive, both to the eye and the palate. In
future a deep violet dye is to be added to
the liquid, while its nauseousness is to
be intensified by a judicious amount of
pyridine.
* t * *
“D.8.K.”: Perhaps the most remark-
able of all lucky escapes in the history
of aviation crashes was one which I
happened to witness. It was a misty
midday in September, 1917, and Com-
mander De Ville, R.N.A.S., in a Sop-
with Pup, levelled out of a cloud just in
time to find that he was faced by the
lofty aerial systems of Horsea Naval
Wireless Station (Portsmouth, England).
Swerving to get clear, his ’plane was
corkscrewed by touching an aerial, and
he crashed upside down into the nearest
mast, 300 feet above ground. The
mast being of lattice construction, the
rotary engine bored its way in and
wedged firmly, holding the Pup sus-
pended in mid-air like a fly on a
paper. De Ville, unconscious, was
thrown out of the cockpit on to an in-
verted wing and lay thus, held only by
an arm crooked around a strut. Swift
and decisive was the work of three
R.N.R. men, who climbed that 300 feet,
laden with ropes, whilst the weakened
mast swayed and threatened to buckle.
They secured the pilot in a bos’n’s chair
and lowered him safely to earth.
* * * *
“Lond.”; London is recognising the
centenary of Pickwick by various topi-
“I like them bowyangs she's Wearin'!"
cal scenes in revue, and some odd details
crop up. An early one carelessly gave
the revellers of 1836 iced drinks in cock-
tail glasses. A second rushed to the other
extreme and served up for Mr. Pickwick
a boar’s head in the fashion of a.d. 1500.
* * * *
“Captain Chaffey”: Scene: Queen Vic-
toria’s statue, Victoria-square, Adelaide.
Dramatis personce: Two suntanned men,
evidently from the wide, open spaces; one
eavesdropper. First outbacker (perplex-
edly): “I say, Jock, what does R.I.
mean?” His mate (with the ease of a
savant); “Royal ’lghness, o’ course.”
* * * &
“Schnorrer”: The Kebra Negast (B.
29/4/’36) was taken to England and
lodged in the British Museum after the
volume had been found under the pillow
“ 'Sh, not a Word —but Dr. Rhino
has been over an hour at Mrs.
Hippo's place."
of the dead Theodore ; its restoration to
where it belonged is said to have
“cemented the friendship of Abyssinia
for England,” But before its return the
book was translated by Sir Henry Budge.
It contains all the early books of the
Bible, with a full account of the story or
Makeda, the Queen of Sheba, and Solo-
mon. The lady’s reason for choosing the
Wise Man as the father of her son and
heir seems to have been that she was an
alien in the country she ruled and
despised its people. Menelik, the son,
paid a visit to his dad, who, when the
youth was about to depart, ordered that
one son from every prominent Hebrew
family should return with him. This
gang, according to the narrative, decided
to steal the Ark of the Covenant and suc-
ceeded, leaving a dummy in its place.
The Ark subsequently accompanied
Menelik in all his battles.
* * * *
“General Prac.”; Among other exhibits
from overseas at the recent Sydney Show
were two dwarfs —lady and gentleman.
Both were three-footers, trimly built and
graceful, the perfect little pocket editions
that many dwarfs are. “Little Gulliver,”
a panto, idol here 30-odd years ago, was
another such. He had a voice like a
steamer’s whistle, and cracked jokes
which were sometimes a trifle strong for
the prim audiences of those days. Then,
later, came “Wee Georgie Wood,” who
always acted and dressed the part of a
child, though he must have been 25. I’d
like further details about Mary Young-
mah, noted in an old book of mine as
“The Australian Dwarf.” She ran to
width rather than stature —measured
42 inches in her stockings, same
across the shoulders, over four feet
round the waist and two feet round the
calf. An authentic figure in history was
Jeffery Hudson, the midget given to
Henrietta Maria, Charles I.’s queen, by
the Duke of Buckingham. The presenta-
tion was made at a dinner at which
Hudson emerged suddenly from the
innards of a veal pie. Certain diseases —
of the thyroid and pituitary glands, for
example—go hand in hand with abnor-
mal forms of dwarfism, and there is a
brand of kidney complaint in which the
sufferers remain pygmies. Luckily, these
never reach adult life.
* * * *
“Say 99”: That “doctor” mentioned
by “Findy” (B. 15/4/’36) might have
bluffed the Judge and jury by flour-
ishing a sphygmanometer instead of a
stethoscope, since most people imagine
that the sphyg. is the newer instrument.
This belief is fostered, of course, by
latter-day gabble about “blood pressure.”
In point of fact, and as most readers of
Kipling know, the stethoscope in its origi-
nal tubular form (the sort of thing our
dead-and-gone colleagues used to cart
round inside their top-hats) was invented
by the French physician Laennec. Patheti-
cally, he himself died of tuberculosis, the
very disease his instrument has done so
much to squelch. The sphygmanometer
had its origins in the work of a scientist
named Stephen Hales. He was a parson,
the perpetual curate of Teddington. He
fixed a tubular contraption of brass and
glass into the crural artery of a mare
and was gratified to observe that the ani-
mal’s blood rose to a vertical height of
Bft. 3in. inside the instrument. All this
happened in 1731, and led directly to
observations on the blood pressure of
man.
* * * *
“Bludangutz”: Among the preparations
for the next war the virtues of potassium
cyanide as a lethal agent seem to have
been overlooked. As prussic acid, a good
whiff is sufficient to cause death. As a
solid, so small a quantity as five grains
has proved a fatal dose. With such com-
pact potential death at command it should
be quite a simple matter to drop a ton
or two into the water-supply reservoirs
of enemy cities. A couple of bombing
planes—and surely it would be impos-
sible to miss the mark even from 10,000
feet. And the suggestion is far less hor-
rible than poison gas or bacteria-charged
bombs; medical authority agrees that
death from cyanide, which usually occurs
within five minutes and is seldom
protracted more than twenty, is prac-
tically painless, unconsciousness super-
vening early. Anyway, isn’t the destruc-
tion of the greatest number of the enemy
within the shortest time the real objec-
tive of war? The possibilities inherent in
a few tons of cyanide make one speculate
whether war as a science isn’t still in its
infancy. Given sufficient of the stuff, say
10,000 tons, and it might be possible to
poison the ocean itself, destroy all fish
life, and from the rotting carcasses which
would pile on every shore and beach
breed a plague that would reduce man-
kind again to a few wandering tribes.
* * * *
“D.G.”: Laurence Stallings, who has
been representing Fox Movietone in
Ethiopia, contributes unusual impressions
of the place to the “American Mercury.”
For example:
The capital is a squalid collection of
mud huts housing 100,000 syphilitic niggers,
ruled by a thousand black-and-tan Jack
the Rippers.
As for Haile Silassie:
The King of Kings is a little warm
brown man with flop ears and a receding
chin which he masks in a luxuriant black
beard. He has poisoned, stabbed and
fought his way to his kingship.
And the Red Cross:
Once the Amharras got it into their
heads that airplanes would not fire on the
Red Cross, they took it up with great
enthusiasm. It became a home for
embusques, and Dr. Heckman told me
that whenever his post at Dagga Burgh
sighted Italian ’planes the Red Cross tents
became a bevy of brasshats. Some of us
grew tired of having bayonets in our faces
and black rascals screaming Halt! when-
ever we passed near a Red Cross dump at
night. So we disarmed them one after-
noon.
Lastly:
Harrar has the finest syphilis average in
Abyssinia, batting a cool 100 per cent.
Every avenue for the acquisition of silver,
even the brothels, belongs to the King of
Kings. Menelik once severed the heads
of 20,000 Harrari —as a disciplinary
measure.
So perhaps it is just as well we did not
rush to the help of the King of Kings.
* # * *
“Kerys”: My pal Bill bought a flax-
mill, a damp venture at best, and was
immediately attacked by violent neuralgia
in the lower jaw. The doctor gave him
instructions to wear red flannel or grow a
beard, and he chose the beard. It didn’t
matter in the country, and his girl wrote
from town and said she rather liked
beards. That was until she saw Bill. His
hair was dark from constant cutting, but
his beard, being entirely new, was strag-
gling and sandy. The lady after one
dance gave him the choice of herself or
the beard. Bill chose her. Then he went
back to the mill and the neuralgia, weak-
ened, grew the beard again, chucked the
town girl and married another.
YO-HO-HO!
“A dozen bottles of lager, four quarts of beer
and a flagon of wine were supplied to jurymen
locked up for the night at a recent Sydney trial,
according to Canon Hammond.”
Only a dozen good men and true
(Yo-ho-ho! and four gallons of beer!),
Sworn their allotted task to do
Unswayed by favor, untouched by fear.
They must sift and riddle, with no man near,
The rights and wrongs of it, line by line;
And ’twere hard to grudge them some liquid
cheer.
(Yo-ho-ho! and a flagon of wine!)
Shepherd them, sheriff, two by two
(Yo-ho-ho! and a flagon of wine!)
To where they must tarry, the long night
through.
Far from some snug domestic shrine
Where wives grow doleful and kids repine,
Bereft of him whom they hold so dear.
Still, through all the gloom there’s a gleam
to shine.
(Yo-ho-ho! and four gallons of beer!)
Oh, the toil is hard and returns are few
(Yo-ho-ho! and four gallons of beer!),
And we most of us look a trifle blue
When they rope us in for the panel sphere.
But at least and at last it’s good to hear
That thirst’s grim torments they don’t design
As part of the thankless job austere.
(Yo-ho-ho! and a flagon of wine!)
Brother, this night ordeal, it’s clear,
May any time be your lot or mine.
Then Yo-ho-ho for a bottle of beer!
And Yo-ho-ho for a flagon of wine!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


p6 7^01
9yl^oS
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake—-smoke
CRAVENA
HRE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
I
i
FD
POLITICAL POINTS
Saying he would never desert his
people, Haile Silassie has deserted them.
He bolted to Djibouti, French Somali-
land, where a British destroyer was wait-
ing for him, leaving the Italians to occupy
his capita], in parts fired and looted.
Fatuous to the last, one of the English
newspapers which have been booming
the alleged saint and urging the Empire
to go to war on his behalf blithers that
he is the hero of “an inspiring epic” and
that “there is no part of the realm where
he would not be afforded friendly sanc-
tuary.” Well, Australia wouldn’t have
him.
Even while Haile Silassie was dressing
up for his imitation of the Kaiser
Wilhelm act, Earl Stanhope, the Under-
secretary for Foreign Affairs, was boast-
ing in the House of Lords that “the effect
of ‘sanctions’ was ‘rapidly increasing,’ ”
and that it would “test Italy’s finance and
resolution to maintain sufficient garrisons
against the Ethiopians.” If John Bull
doesn’t kick Eden and Stanhope out of
the Foreign Office and bring Hoare back
he is not the John Bull of old.
The N.S.W. Government has just lost
£2500 backing a wolfram show at Frog-
more. Now “the Federal Government
has decided to lend £250,000 to approved
companies or persons engaged in the
search for flow oil.” It is just tipping
public money down holes in the ground,
but anything, anything seems preferable
to worth-while, tax-cuts.
From the other side of the world.
Premier Stevens has contradicted the
Minister (Vincent) who said his chief
had gone to London to study the extrac-
tion of oil from coal.
Mr. Stevens said he was in Europe to
learn as much as he could of Imperial
and world circumstances.
As head of a Government with purely
provincial powers, it is no more his
business than it is that of the president of
Bogalong shire.
Stewart, M.H.R., continues to disturb
the complacency of the Government at
Canberra, He asked the P.M. “to allow
the people to say whether they wish to
retain seven Parliaments for not
7,000,000 people.”
With the transfer to the Federal author-
ity of health, transport, marketing, educa-
tion and justice, the balance of the powers
could quite readily be assumed by an ex-
tended system of local government.
If this man doesn’t look out he will be-
come P.M. himself.
The report that Commonwealth Mini-
sters and members are to get their boom-
time salaries back had an interesting
sequel in the House of Reps., when a
clause of the Income-tax Assessment Bill
which allows election expenses of
members to be deducted from taxable
income was passed with enthusiasm. But
that wasn’t all:
The Opposition protested that “any
candidate for Parliament should have the
same exemption.” This was “agreed to
on the voices.”
They do look after themselves.
The latest of the myriad lies with
which Australians have been fed since
September is that “the Italians won the
war with gas.” They won it with motor
vehicles and ’planes, troop-carriers in par-
ticular, and this nation, which has been
wickedly deceived and imperilled, should
force the Government to profit by their
example or get a Government that will.
Among other things it will mean using
the power of the purse to force Com-
monwealth control of transport; but
State Governments cannot be left to
throttle the development of the motor-
lorry, as they are trying to do. Motor-
lorries saved Verdun ; now —“2000, each
manned by 16 soldiers”—they have cap-
tured Addis Ababa.
A man operating a sawmill and petrol
depot near the N.S.W.-Q. border has been
refused permission to carry timber to
Brisbane and take a back load of petrol
on his own truck. That is what “the
right to travel in order to sell” has come
to in Australia, although supposed to have
been secured for all time by Section 92
of the Commonwealth Constitution—
“ Trade, commerce and intercourse among
the States shall be absolutely free.”
After all, Haile Silassie was just a flash
coon with a smart press-agent; but the
press-agent earned his pay. His last
achievement was to write “a moving
appeal to the women of the world” for
“Princess Tsahai, the 17-year-old daughter
of the Emperor”:
For God’s sake get something done that
will harm the Italian armies. Use your
numbers and rally your husbands, brothers
and sons to use their massed strength and
compel Parliaments and rulers to take
action.
A lot of good ladies in Sydney “fell for”
the stuff and passed resolutions calling
on the men to rise up and do something.
“The Government headed (in Mr. Stevens’s absence) by Mr. Bruxner has introduced
a bill rejecting the basic wage for women declared by the N.S.W. Industrial Commission,
thus joining in the upsetting of judgments which is one of the charming features of the
Australian industrial system.”
“Hold on, your Honors — I’m in this!"
The waste of money on N.S.W. Gov-
ernment printing is exemplified by the
“Weekly Report on Committee Divisions.”
On amendments to the Wheat and Wheat
Products Bill the dreary ritual of voting
was gone through nine times. Each time
the names of the voters are printed in
columned lists in full, to the length of
five foolscap pages. They could all be
put on the back of an envelope by print-
ing: “Voting, 35 to 28. Division on
party lines,”
The’ Post Office has cause to bless the
seven taxation departments. Last year
the N.S.W. office issued 67,000 assess-
ments for “ordinary” State income tax
and 127,000 for “special” income tax.
Postage on letters containing cheques
must have exceeded £l6OO ; and letters
containing cheques represent only a por-
tion of the correspondence handled by
seven taxation departments.
Our esteemed P.M., in Sydney:
No Government has the right to con-
tinue to collect any more revenue than is
necessary for its needs.
Joseph’s Government must be on the eve
of a Great Decision. Be this as it may,
his declaration suggests another:
Sin, consider yourself reproved.
(Signed) Satan.
Redistribution of the Victorian Federal
electorates, overdue for many years, is
talked of again. The job should have
been done two years ago, when a
thoroughly impartial commission drew up
a plan for 20 divisions, each with 50,000
electors or thereabouts. It was rejected
at the instance of Gibson, then M.H.R.
for Corangamite, on the ground that it
didn’t conserve country interests or
didn’t make Corangamite safe for
Gibson; and the election was held on
the old boundaries. In the result, there
were more people in Henty (85,346) than
in Melbourne (41,127) and Ballarat
(42,174) combined. Meanwhile Gibson
had bolted to a better ’ole —in the Senate.
Amalgamated Wireless has entered
into possession of broadcasting station
2CH, transfer of which was objected to
by the Post Office. And, going to Mascot
(N.S.W.) to declare “the first wireless
beacon station for aircraft” open for
business, Minister Parkhill said his Gov-
ernment was “grateful that it has at its
hand the valuable efficiency and expert
knowledge of the A.W.A.” This, per-
haps, means that the Government has
at length refused to sanction a bureau-
cratic war of extermination on A.W.A.
If it doesn’t mean that it should.
When the Townsend plan became
awkward (the basis is that every Ameri-
can aged 60 should get $2OO a month
from the Government, conditionally on
his spending the $2OO within a month),
some bright spirit hit upon the notion of
setting up a political committee to over-
haul the Townsend show’s finances. It
discovered that some of the leaders are
making a good thing out of it. One
worthy admitted having received in
“total remuneration” —salary, dividends
from Townsend publications and ex-
penses —“more than $77,000 in two
years and a half.” “And did you contri-
bute anything to the cause?” he was
asked. “Nothing.”
N. S. Wales used to have a child-en-
dowment tax, which was repealed by the
Stevens Government with a great parade
of virtue. Now income from other States
and earnings of business people in a
small way—so small that they are exempt
from the ordinary income tax —are being
taxed to pay child-endowment. It may
be humanitarian, but the victims con-
sider it tricky.
Only Russians know the truth about
Russia, although hundreds of foreign
writing men and thousands of 14-day
tourists profess to retail it. It has been
reserved for a Russian to explode the
fiction of an invincible Red Army.
The U.S.S.R. array, which might con-
ceivably serve the Red dictatorship well in
a brief attack or an equally brief resist-
ance, is incapable of standing up to a
protracted war. It is therefore easy to
understand why the Soviets are so alarmed
at the mere idea of any armed conflict in
which they have to participate.
In other words, the Red leaders are
mortally scared of the Germans and the
Japanese. Hence their efforts to revive
the alliance with Britain and France via
the League, and hence the spawning of
associations Against War (civil war ex-
cepted).
Addressing the N.S.W. Economic
Society, Dr. Madgwick, one of the young
lions who roar at Sydney University,
came out strong for assisted immigra-
tion. He said “the question to be de-
cided is whether the Government will
be justified in borrowing to finance immi-
gration” ; and he decided it in the
affirmative. Dr. Madgwick lectures on
economic history. Strange that he has
learned nothing from the economic history
of the Westralian group settlements and
the Victorian experiments in planting
British soldiers on the soil.
Queensland Railway Department is
staging a show to commemorate the
transfer of its head office to the fine new
Anzac-square quarters. The programme
could be made more interesting by a few
waxworks or tableau exhibits —say, one
of the Minister “for” Transport on his
knees before the Railway Union, and an-
other showing the Transport Strangula-
tion Board considering an unpublished
minute. Some seized motor-trucks, carry-
ing the wives and children of their un-
employed former owners —perhaps those
miscreants themselves, in gaol clothing,
as well —and the motor-cycle for which
heavy-vehicle “fees” were demanded
should have a place in the procession.
How heavily taxation weighs on tax-
payers is shown by the annual report of
the N. S. Wales Commissioner. At
June 30, 1935, £780,000 —25 p.c. of a
year’s collections —was outstanding and
“a considerable proportion has been
carried forward from year to year.”
Some taxpayers are “financially sound,
and are paying off their indebtedness as
they realise on assets the earlier sale of
which, if forced, would have involved
them in considerable loss.” “Financially
sound” is good.
From “Sir Sol”:
No, transfer of Commerce headquarters to
Canberra will leave more than “two important
Federal activities, Defence and P. 0.” in Mel-
bourne (B. 29/4/’36) —the note- and stamp-
printing works will remain. And 800 people
are employed in them. Yet the shifting of this
concern would inconvenience no one except
the staff, while the advantages to ’Berra would
be great. Certainly a stupid Government
erected a huge building to house it; but it
could be sold. It might conceivably return a
higher price than its erection cost.


HERE ENDETH THE FIRST LESSON.
“An anthropologist is to supersede the police patrol in the south-west portion of N.T. He is to have power to deal on the spot with certain offences, and may order
reasonable corporal punishment.”


ft ■■ ■ .w:;v. r ,v.
m
in
-
FD
M
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
jj MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE
5 Y D N EY
i.
s'
o
N
U
T
D
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report Lee “Bulletin,” 1 3/6/’ 34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
„„„ VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. 0. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POMONA PUMPS
F
HEAVY DUTY MINE
DEWATERING POMPS
FOR VERTICAL SHAFTS
Pomona Pumps
are used largely
for Water Supply
Pumping and all
industrial require-
ments.
Pomona Pumps
are installed in
many mines in
all States of
Australia. One
at Talbot, Vic-
toria, has been
running non-stop
since early in
1933.
Full particulars from the Sole Distributor:
F. N. BETHUNE,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.I.
Telephone: C 9935.
PERSONAL ITEMS
George Alexander may claim to be
one of the biggest dairymen in Aus-
tralia in a double sense. More than six
feet high and broad in proportion, he
towers over other exhibitors at the classic
dairy shows of the Illawarra and R.A.S.
And in a cattle sense he is as big as he
is physically. Born on the rich South
GEORGE ALEXANDER, from Kiama.
Coast of N.S.W., he is one of the resi-
dents of the “Bellevue Hill” of Austra-
lian dairying, his farm surrounded by
those of the Greys, Chitticks, Dudgeons
and a dozen others whose names, like his
own, are known wherever dairy stock of
world standard is bred.
Clyde Fenton, the N.T.’s flying
doctor, has reached Singapore on his
return journey from China, and will put
in a month studying malaria before he
does the last lap to Darwin. A Mel-
bourne graduate, he began flying at
Wyndham (W.A.), and nearly finished
his career by a crash on his first flight.
Service in England as a surgeon in the
R.A.F. followed before he took up duty
at Darwin. A brother, Lieutenant Cyril
Fenton, was one of the first Australian
airmen killed in the war —he was shot
down in France on R.F.C. service. An-
other brother was a doctor in China.
Clyde Fenton’s unauthorised departure,
'yvhich has stimulated officialdom to such
dire threats of retaliation, was under-
taken for the purpose of comforting his
70-year-od mother, seriously ill at Swa-
tow, in China, after the death of her only
daughter.
E. S. Clayton, chief experimentalist in
N.S.W, Agricultural Department, who
probably knows more about soil erosion
than anyone in Australia, has left
for U.S.A. on the first leg of a world
tour to study erosion control methods.
The tall, limber scientist is barely 40,
holds a Hawkesbury Dip. Ag., and acts as
a judge in R.A.S. wheat championships.
A typical Light Horseman, he was in the
gallop through Palestine.
The new chairman of Victorian As-
sociated Banks is F. G. Gordon. He is
one of the most unassuming of bankers,
and has spent most of his life absorbing
an amazingly detailed knowledge of Aus-
tralia with the Commercial of Australia,
of which he became g.m. in 1934 in suc-
cession to C. H. Tranter.
Fell overboard during the night from
a steamer between Adelaide and Port
Lincoln (S.A.), A. E. Clarkson, 60, one
of Adelaide’s most prominent business-
men, managing director of the firm bear-
ing his name, and also chairman of
directors of the “News.” He had been
president of S.A. Chamber of Commerce,
and was an active Mason, Methodist and
Rotarian.
Mark Bonnin, son of Dr. James 8.,
has made a local record at Adelaide
University by being elected president of
the Union whilst still an undergrad. The
previous occupant of the chair was Prof.
Wilkinson, who has moved to Brisbane.
Bonnin was in the S.A. boat for the
King’s Cup, and is prominent also in
tennis and lacrosse.
After nearly 50 years’ service with Vic-
toria and the Commonwealth, E. W.
Parkes, Clerk of the Reps;, will retire at
the end of this year. He intends to spend
his retirement ripening on the sunny side
of his Canberra home. Clerk Assistant
Frank Green, historian of Tasmania’s 40th
Battalion, is next in line, and is expected
to receive the promotion. This will cause a
general reshuffle of Parliamentary posts.
The Clerk of the Senate, G. H. Monahan,
is due to retire a year after his colleague
of the other House, and his place will be
filled by Clerk Assistant R. A. Broinow-
ski, who was well known in Melbourne
literary circles before the transfer of the
Federal Parliament to Canberra.
J. C. Furnas, who has been sent to
Australia at the instance of the Australian
Travel Association, is in the first flight
of U.S.A. magazine-writers. Well known
in his own country for years, he achieved
world prominence
a few months ago
with a series of
judicial articles on
the U.S.S.R., which
he visited with the
annual flood of
American tourists.
His analysis of
Soviet conditions,
written w i tho u t
heat or bias, was
one of the fairest
yet put on paper.
He intends to write
a series of descrip
tions of Australia,
which will be pub-
lished in America
both in the maga-
zines and in book
form. Furnas is an
authority on motor
accidents, a ruth-
less enemy of the
dangerous driver,
and one of his articles depicting the
horrors of an average road mishap is a
grisly classic which has been circulated
in tens of millions by safety-first associa-
tions the world over.
Queensland lost another of its best-
known graziers when Ranald Macpherson
died in St. George (Q.) Memorial Hos-
pital. He had been in s.-western Queens-
land for fifty years—in an earlier day as
overseer on Boombah and manager of
Boatman and Whippenbah. After he
FURNAS, of the “Saturday Evening
Post.”
married a daughter of Dugald Cameron,
of Camlet, he settled down on a property
of his own. A son of the kirk, educated
at Edinburgh Academy, he bore the
marks of his stern and upright training
to the end. His only son, Ranald, went
to the war at 18, and served till the
Armistice, but was killed two years
afterwards by a fall from a horse. The
Macphersons established relationships
with many well-known Queensland pas-
toral families, including the Ross-Munros,
and R.M.’s only daughter married one
of the flood of young Digger graziers and
stockmen who to-day have almost a
monopoly of the s.-west —Joe Chandler.
The Commonwealth could not have
found a better man than T. G. H. Streh-
low to pioneer the “anthropological
patrol” of N.T. native tribes. He was
born at Hermannsburg mission (Central
Australia), and learned the local lan-
guages as he learned his English and
German. Then he went to an Adelaide
school and Adelaide University, where he
took a first-class honors degree. The
Uni. sent him back to the MacDonnells
with Rockefeller Trust money to do
anthropological research. He is one of
perhaps half a dozen Australians capable
of seeing the native with a native-trained
mind.
Curator Morrison, of the N.S.W. Min-
ing Museum, has retired after 49 years in
the Mines Department, Much of his
younger life was spent in rough-and-
tumble geological survey work, in which
he acquired an unrivalled knowledge of
his native State’s minerals. Literally,
thousands of prospectors benefited by his
advice, always given with a dash of in-
herited Scotch humor. One of the best
stories about him is of an optimist with
a contempt for official knowledge who
strolled into the museum with a hand-
kerchief full of stone and a capitalist in
tow. “Very fine, very fine,” Morrison
is reported to have said. “A very, very
clever prospector you are, and I wish
there were more like you. A man who
can find gold ore which has no gold in
it and which comes from Colorado in
the middle of the Warrumbungles should
be a great asset to the State, I’d like you
to meet the Minister.” But the meeting
was never arranged.
E. H. Corser, vice-president of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange, dead at 47,
was a member of
one of the best-
known Wide Bay
(Q.) families. Both
his father and
grandfather were
Maryborough soli-
citors, and he was
trained in the Q.N.
Bank before he
began to
handle stocks
and shares.
An uncle, E.
B. Corser.
was the
pioneer member
for Wide Bay in
the Federal Parlia-
ment, and a cousin,
Bernard, now holds
the seat. E.H.C.
had been a mem-
ber of the Brisbane Stock Exchange com-
mittee for 16 years, and from 1924 to
1926 was president.
Chief Justice Murray, of S.A., a
bachelor, and already wealthy, is the
chief heir to his unmarried sister, lately
dead, whose estate is unexpectedly valued
at £92,000. About a third of this goes
to charities, relatives and old servants.
The rest goes to her brother for his life,
and then to Adelaide University, of which
he is Chancellor.
Edgar Johnston, Controller of Civil
Aviation, has packed as much adventure
into his 40 years as any five ordinary
men. A Wcstralian, he went to the war
at 19, was commissioned with the R.F.C.,
returned with a D.F.C., practised as a
surveyor for a year or two, became the
pioneer superintendent of aerodromes,
and licensed and oversaw the preparation
EDGAR JOHNSTON, Civil Aviation
Controller.
of nearly all the landing-grounds in use
in Australia to-day. He is head of most
of the Commonwealth committees deal-
ing with air matters, but finds time to
keep himself in trim with swimming and
tennis.
Dr. M. L, Oliphant, an Australian, has
worked in collaboration with Lord
Rutherford at the Cavendish Laboratory
at Cambridge, and in the last few years
has published many researches conjointly
with him. And when Dr. Chadwick, the
discoverer of the “neutron,” was recently
appointed to the Chair of Physics at
Liverpool, Lord Rutherford chose Oli-
phant to succeed him as assistant-direc-
tor of the Cavendish. Oliphant earned the
job as one of the world’s leading authori-
ties on the structure of the atom.
Ex-Prof. Howchin, of Adelaide, still
active at 91, has added another scalp to
his belt, to wear with the F.R.S., the
Clarke Memorial medal and the Lyell
medal. This time it is “honorary cor-
respondent” to S.A. School of Mines,
the only distinction which that body has
in its power to confer.
E. H. Oliphant’s death at 74 in Mel-
bourne removes one of the most curi-
ously versatile of Australian personali-
ties. Born in Victoria and educated at
Scotch College and Melbourne University,
he chose mining for first love. He was
associate editor of the “Mining Stand-
ard” for a time, tried his hand in control
of the “Money Market Review” in Lon-
don and returned to edit the “Mining
Standard” for seven years, including the
war period, during which his Germany
and Good Faith, published in 1914,
earned him world-wide attention. After
the war he was a leader writer on the
Melbourne “Herald” for a time, but left
his job to go to the U.S.A., where he
became a lecturer in English at several
universities. In 1933 he came back to a
lectureship in Elizabethan literature at
Melbourne University. He published a
number of works, mainly dealing with
the Elizabethan dramatists, and some
plays.


\c>
V 9
/A
%
i i i
\ i i
i i i
i • i
i i i
i i i
l i •
i i
i •
I I
t»ii
i iii*
l i i i i
(Mil
I I I I I
Ill'll
! I II « I i
Mil'll
Mil'll
>
i i i
m
&
c.
/m
% \ kV»
v' v V'\\\<V S ’*
• »Yv
I
i
5&?e&
I I I
I I I
Hit
nii
ini
ll n
i 11 11
Hi 1 1
ill
Mill
min
min
11 11 11
(Mill
nnn
i 11 1 1 11
ii 11 11
11 11 n it
11 11 1 • 1 1
i i t
(Mill
II M I I I
II I M I
till
Mil
M M M l
I I I i I i l
V I I i I I *
I I I I I I I I
I M I I t I
I I M II M i
It M I I l i i
111 II I I r I
I I I I t I I i i
I I I I II i .
I I I I 1 I i i •
I M I I I I i «
I I I I I I I I • •
I I 1 I II I I i •
Mill
I I I M I I i
I M I I I I I I
I I I I I I I i i
I 1 I I M I I .
M I I M It •
n i i i i i i i *
i t i i i t i i t i
I i i i i i i i i •
i i i i t i i i ii
I I ) I M I i • •
I I I I I I I • • ■
II I II M I I •
II 1 it I I I I i
l I I i m ; i » •
I i l i i i » t • *
it i i i i • i • •
n i i it i i i *
n i i * i i i i *
iitti
i i * i i
i i i » i ii i i
l I I M i I i i
Mill
n i i i i i
t i m i i i
i i i i i ii i
> i ii i m i
i i i i i i i
i i i i i • *
i i { i i i •
I I I M I I
i i
I i
I II I
i •
I i
Men who Know whisky
comment on the unusual smooth-
ness of Johnnie Walker. To buy
Johnnie Walker is easy. To open it is
easier still. And to drink it easiest of all!
BORN
1820-
\T
STILL
GOING STRONG I
•JQMHNDE WHkIER
SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LtD„ LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
J.W.42FP.


How Much Time
can you give to your friend's affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter X. Brunton, Herbert B. Lysaght,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. X. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore,
B. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet,
H. V. Douglass, Manager,
PACIFIC FORESTS LTD.
’Phone, Write or Call for Any Information re Shares in
the Above Company:
HODSONS INVESTMENTS Limited
INVESTMENT BANKERS,
PACIFIC HOUSE
249 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
’Phone: 82892.
(All Departments.)
INQUIRIES INVITED ABOUT STOCKS AND SHARES
BOTH QUOTED AND UNQUOTED.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department,
Written
Off or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Gontingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
’05.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 t , 7
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 j 000,D4i
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
’15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
’25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,200 112,880 3,015,579
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 I „ ~, ni „
Provision for taxation, £237,635 j <s,i.a4,uj.o
’31.. 9,470,449 5,616,260 1,222,207 685,149 7
Provision for taxation, £69,365 J ’ ’
’32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
’33.. 9,322,373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
’35.10,179,608 5,565,654 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 1,397,888 227,059 362,824 ( TQV IQ .
Written off, £lO,Bll )
1930. . 2,175,179 717,377 490,880)
Written off, £64,047 i 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 J
1931.. 2,140,548 837,761 492,270 1
To con’t’cy fund, etc., £164,477 } 635,405
Provision for taxation, £10,635 j
1932.. 2,103,758 796,026 536,082 ) 7( , a IfiQ
Written off, £3461 .. .. j
1933. 800,834 552,582 1 s , n . Q „
Written off, £7359 .. .. ) SIU,49>J
1934. 853,034 533,936 ) Ql , rl
Written off, £5651 .. .. ]
1935. 964,512 582,580 ) oflo QQr ,
Written off, £4280 .. .. f ’ J
Because of the security and returns it
offers and the wide range of needs it
covers, a life policy in a sound regular-
bonus-paying office should be the sheet'
anchor of every man’s investments. Fur-
thermore, the events of the last few years
and the outlook have enhanced the attrac-
tiveness of these contracts as investments.
The A.M.P. is Australia’s biggest and
oldest existing life office. As usual, its
figures disclose steady expansion of the
business, together with very satisfactory
margins in all those matters upon which
profits, and therefore bonuses, depend,
and a solid financial structure. Combin-
ing the figures of the two departments, the
total business in force at the end of Dec.
was £294,864,963, or £15,863,951 more
than at the previous balance. The
£24,053,500 (up £6,062,016) of new busi-
ness written was a record. The growth
in the year’s total income (£12,640,375)
was £615,634, of which net premiums
(£8,348,152) accounted for £476,684, and
interest, rents, etc. (£4,292,223), for
£138,950. After paying all legitimate
claims (£6,530,166) and exes. (£1,717,756),
and writing £33,452 off the book value of
premises, etc., £4,359,001 (up £321,061)
was added to funds, making them
£98,166,602. In addition there is
£2,372,963 set aside for contingencies
and taxation. By setting aside large
sums in addition to the strong
actuarial reserves, the board is providing
for maintenance of satisfactory bonuses
in the future.
The amount available for distribution
among policy-holders was £3,073,798 (up
£84,264), of which £3,044,141 (up £81,420)
was divided in the form of bonuses, mak-
ing total bonuses declared since the in-
ception of the society £66,180,345. Re-
cent distributions compare as follows:
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1920.. £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364.027
1923.. 1,967,457 115,931 2,083,388
1926.. 2,668,323 193,776 2,862,099
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1032.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
Including £29,657 of interim bonuses, the
amount distributed in the Ordinary de-
partment last year was 44.4 p.c. of pre-
miums received on participating policies
as against 47 p.c. in the previous year.
In the Ordinary branch, exes., including
taxes, took 17.7 p.c. of the premium in-
come, excluding consideration for annui-
ties (£184,620), as against 17.3 p.c. in
1934. The proportion allowed for ex-
penses by the actuary in his valuation was
18.6 p.c. Death claims amounted to only
56 p.c. of expectation.
On the same basis, exes, in the Indus-
trial section took 30 p.c. of the premium
income, compared with 29.4 p.c. in 1934.
The society assumes that its actuarial
reserves will turn in 3 p.c. The actual
amount realised on these, plus the con-
tingency, etc., reserves, last year was £4
7s. 2d. p.c., and the effective rate £4 9s.
Id. p.c. Corresponding figures for 1934
were £4 Bs. 2d, p.c. and £4 10s. 2d. p.c.
respectively. It is plain from the margins
available from interest, mortality and ex-
penses that maintenance of handsome
bonuses is assured.
The society’s investment portfolio totals
£101,869,045, of which £58,231,599 (up
£3,186,880) is invested in public securi-
ties :
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Public securities. £55,044,719 56.5 £58,231,599 57.2
Mortgages .. 21,742,196 22.3 23,075,022 22.7
Loans on policies 16,135,307 16.6 16,181,560 15.9
Premises.. .. 1,718,767 1.8 1,886,779 1.8
Other assets .. 2,711,530 2.8 2,494,085 2.4
An extra £1,332,826 was invested in mort-
gages and £168,013 net was added to
premises, which are worth more than
their book value.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £> £
1926.. 198,688 10 p.c. = 125,000 73,688 957,841
1927.. 213,297 10 „ ~137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243,485 10 „ ~ 150,000 93,485 1,127,123
1929.. 244,381 10 „ ~150,000 94,381 1,221,504
1930.. 247,946 ]0 „ ~ 150,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,675 10 „ ~ 150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ ~150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ ~150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 .. .. 1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544,502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556,864
1936.. 234,474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84,474 1,641,338
Written off plantations,. £25,000.. 1,616,338
The position looks so attractive that
the market again considers extra benefits
are imminent, and prices the fully-paid
pound shares at 68s. Similar expecta-
tions had sent the figure to 50s. early in
1929; it fell sharply to 345. a year
later, owing to slump and the general
collapse of prices, and then advanced
steadily to the present level. Allowing for
the final div. (Is. per share), the return
is 2.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for a shade under
4.5 p.c. on his money counts on a 14 p.c.
distribution, or, what is more likely, a
one-for-two bonus issue. This would
require £750,000 (less than half the
visible lay-by at the close of last ac-
counts), and raise paid capital to
£2,250,000, on which a 10 p.c. div. would
call for £225,000, or £9474 less than
was netted for the last term.
For the last 17 years a steady 10 p.c.
div. has been paid with wide margins.
Since 1920 over £1,900,000 has been
openly struck off for depreciation, etc.,
and £2,341,000-odd net has been added
to the book value of fixed assets, etc.,
raising the figure to £3,065,819 at the
end of March. The last-mentioned
etcetera consists of an unspecified amount
of investments, which include B.P. (South
Seas), Queensland Insurance, A.U.S.N.
Co., Solomon Islands Development,
Choiseul and Shortland Islands Planta-
tions and Jantzen (Aust.), Ltd. The co.
came through the slump with visibly no
more than a quiver. Its shipping and
merchandising business, which extends
round the Australian coast, out over the
Pacific and north to Java, Singapore,
Manila, Hong Kong and elsewhere, kept
on expanding during the lean years, and
continues to do so.
During the last term turnover in the
merchandising section showed a substan-
tial increase, thanks largely to the rise
in the price of copra, and the new pas-
senger and cargo service to Hong Kong
helped to swell earnings in the shipping-
section, too. The spring in gross earn-
ings from all sources (£860,119) was
£67,278, of which exes. (£508,518) took
£48,678. After striking off £134,621 (up
£12,626) for depreciation, etc., and in-
cluding an unexplained addition of
£17,494 to reserves, the net result was
£22,112 better at 15.6 p.c. on capital. For
the five preceding years net earnings
averaged 14.4 p.c. on average capital as
against 16.1 p.c. for the quinquennium
before that.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
1915. 1925. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 261,095 1,361,444 1,726,912 1,627,341
Pro perties,
shipping, in-
vestments,
etc. .. 575,790 2,030,836 3,215,211 3,065,819
Stocks, ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 683,968 715,427 850,360
Book debts 882,624 781,838 788,286 813,992
Cash ~ 47,018 123,955 164,853 113,508
To clip £99,571 off the outside debt, carry
an extra £134,933 of stocks and advances
and add £25,706 to other debtors’
balances, cash was reduced by £51,345
and the book value of fixed assets and
investments by £149,392.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Rc-
Uec.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
t££ , £
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 „ „ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 „ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p,c.= 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 ;, „ 22,400 368 25,551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22,400 21,601
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16,800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 61-„ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 7i „ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
Seasonal conditions, which affect the
quantity and quality of cane passed
through the rollers, etc., and the price
for surplus sugar exported are
the chief factors governing the earn-
ings of growers and - millers. The
price of raws for local consump-
tion (now about £24 per ton)* is
fixed under the agreement between the
Commonwealth and Queensland Gov-
ernments. This agreement’, which runs
out at the beginning of September next,
is to be renewed for a further five years.
To guard against the effects of a dry
season, which played havoc with the
1932 figures, this Bundaberg grower and
miller has installed an irrigation plant,
which has given results in sugar produc-
tion beyond the board’s expectations.
Also, farmers on adjoining lands are
availing themselves of the facilities the
co. has thus provided.
Last year’s crushing of 169,698 tons
of cane (up 19,799 tons) was a record,
and the output of raws was 4400 tons
in excess of the mill’s sugar peak. The
final price for No, 1 pool sugar is ex-
pected to be £l6 165., and for excess
sugar £8 per ton, compared with
£l6 10s. lid, and £7 1 Is. 3d. for the pre-
vious season. After sending £11,482
(approximately the same as for the pre-
vious year) to the depreciation reserve
(now £119,713), the net result of the
year’s operations was £6539 better at
10 p.c. on the £280,000 of capital as
against 7.6, 6.1, a loss, 8.8, 6.7, 8.1 and
8.3 p.c. back to 1928. A point was added
to the div., making p.c. for the year,
the final being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
The immediate outlook for the cur-
rent season is for another good harvest.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 275. 6d. as against 255. 9d. a
year ago. The return at the higher
figure would be 5.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Excluding the depreciation re-
serve, the cover is 225, 4d. in net tan-
gibles.
Additions and alterations to the mill
are reflected in a growth of £12,760 in
the book value of fixed assets:
1921. 1927. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital,. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities .. 16,205 18,594 19,666 26,463
Freeholds,
mac hinery,
plant, etc... 162,031 255,612 356,897 369,657
Stocks.. .. 30,851 63,545 36,282 30,277
G o v e r nment
securities, etc. 16,000 15,910 15,000 15,000
Debtors, cash,
etc 65,211 32,690 36,005 55,929
Including stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£74,743) was £7122 stronger
than at the previous balance, notwith-
standing the outlay on fixed assets.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931.. 4,413 5„ „ 4262 151 ) 12 354
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO 1 ’
From inner reserves, £57,000
From tax reserve, £2026.. .. L 93
Loss. j
1932.. 71,284 Nil J
Deficit.
1933.. 176,830 Nil 176,734
From inner reserves, £Bl,OlB .. .. 145,716
1934.. 31,378 Nil 177,094
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. ... 176,956
Surplus debenture interest, etc., £4615.. 172,341
Profit.
1935.. 5,878 Nil 5878 166,463
•Eight months,
t Excluding capital reserve, £166,102 at Dee. 31, ’35.
Last year’s £5878 of profit, an improve-
ment of £37,256 on the previous year’s
result, was the outcome of savings
amounting to £25,999 in administrative
exes. (£86,377) and of £17,637 in deben-
ture interest (£10,844). Competition
lost none of its edge, and the gross profit
from trading, etc. (£103,099), fell away
£9277. Plant has been one of the co.’s
chief troubles. A year ago the board
declared that its aim was to place the
working assets in good condition, and
that it intended to continue purchases of
new plant to the fullest extent possible
in the circumstances. Exactly what
has been done in this direction, and what
further expenditure the board considers
necessary, the report does not say. Addi-
tions were made to plant during the year,
and all but £6l of the cost was covered
by the amount written off for deprecia-
tion. More new machines have been
ordered since the close of accounts. Since
manufacturing costs, and other things, are
closely associated with plant efficiency,
much depends upon the state of equip-
ment.
It was to facilitate purchase of new
plant that interest on the £520,500 of
debentures —they are the funded trade
debts of the old Bond co., and used to
carry 7 p.c. p.a., reduced to £5 Bs. 6d.
by the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act —was lowered to 2 p.c., 2y p.c. and
3 p.c. for the three years to the end of
1937. The temporary saving of £49,000-
odd is to be paid out of subsequent pro-
fits as soon as practicable.
After taking into account a forfeited-
share reserve of £l3B and a surplus of
£4615 in connection with debentures, the
p, and 1. debit was reduced to £166,463.
That leaves out of the reckoning a capi-
tal reserve of £166,102, mainly a book
entry in respect of the freehold.
During the year stocks and debtors’
balances were worked down, and the out-
side debt, mainly the overdraft (down
£51,783), reduced:
1051 1095! 1Q25
Paid capital.. £85,840 £86,442 £86,442 £92,30(3
Debentures .. 544,033 529,747 529,747 522,669
Mortgage . . 111,676 109,786 105,817 101,797
Overdraft . . 89,393 122,099 149,191 97,408
Sundry creditors 50,012 30,312 18,321 14,337
Freehold .. 322,295 320,920 320,920 320,981
Plant.. .. 231,148 212,754 201,016 190,009
Stocks . . 278,411 226,034 239,762 205,517
Book debts . . 223,254 128,602 105,821 99,409
Cash, etc. .. 7,947 10,426 10,981 12,238
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded the floating debt by
£205,419, an improvement of £11,367
over the twelvemonth. Stocks have been
“suitably depreciated,” and the reserve
for bad debts is considered adequate.
Debenture interest will call for £13,012
for the current term, £15,615 in 1937, and
thereafter and while the Interest Reduc-
tion Act remains in force £28,671 p.a.,
plus arrears. The market prices the £lOO
debentures at £44 15s. as against £2B 10s.
a year ago. At the higher figure the re-
turn is 5.6 p.c. and 6.6 p.c. on the basis
of interest to be paid for the next two
years. Excluding the capital reserve, the
cover is £B5 16s. in net tangibles, mainly
fixed assets, worth what they can earn.
(“Wild Cat’’ continued on page 18.)


\
/
I
<mr
LAMPS
0
Priced at 2/- in January, you can
now buy genuine PHILIPS COILED
COIL lamps, 40 and 60 watts, at the
remarkably low price of 1/6. All
popular types of Philips Lamps have
been considerably reduced, so that
GOOD LIGHT —GOOD SIGHT,
may be realised in every home at
lowest possible cost.
GASFILLED LAMPS
FD
15 and 25 Watts Vacuum Coiled Filament 1/6.
e^W-e^LAMPS
MADE IN .AUSTRALIA!
6L19
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
May Issue Now on Sale.
MAORILAND’S FINANCIAL EXPERIMENTS
PROBLEM OF IMPORTS
INTEREST RATES
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £11216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
This advertisement of the prospectus undermentioned is not an invitation to subscribe
for shares. It does not fully comply with the requirements of the Companies Act.
Applications for shares will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred
to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the prospectus which was filed on the 27th day
of April, 1936, with the Registrar-General of the State of Victoria, and copies of which,
duly certified, have been filed with the Registrars of Companies of the States of South
Australia and Queensland.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
ASSOCIATED PULP AND PAPER MILLS
LIMITED
(Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1928 on 18th April, 1936.)
CAPITAL: £3,000,000 in 3,000,000 Shares of £1 each.
950.000 Ordinary Shares are now offered for subscription (subject to the
firm subscriptions and priorities hereinafter set out) at 5/- per
share (application and allotment money) ; the balance of
15/- per share to be subject to calls, the first of which will be
of 2/6 per share, payable on the 15th day of July, 1936, the
remaining calls not to exceed 2/6 per share per quarter.
150.000 Fully-paid Deferred Shares are to be allotted to H. N. H. Mirams
as Trustee for Gerald Mussen and others in consideration of the
assets and rights acquired by the Company as hereinafter set out.
100.000 Fully-paid Deferred Shares are to be allotted to Tasmanian Paper
Proprietary, Limited, in consideration of the assets and rights
acquired from it, as set out hereinafter.
1,800,000 Ordinary Shares are to be held in reserve.
3,000,000
RIGHTS OF DEFERRED SHARES.
Deferred Shares shall be deferred as to dividend only and to the extent
that the holders thereof shall have no right to participate in dividends until
the holders of the 950,000 ordinary shares now offered for subscription
shall have received a dividend of or a number of dividends equal in the
aggregate to 6 p.c. (that is, 1/2.4 per share). Thereafter such deferred
shares shall rank pari passu with the ordinary shares as to both capital
and dividend.
FIRM SUBSCRIPTIONS.
The Five Companies next named and associated in the promotion of
the enterprise have in consideration of the option over future issue of capital,
mentioned in the prospectus, taken firm the numbers of ordinary shares set
opposite their respective names:—
75.000 North Broken Hill, Ltd.
75.000 Broken Hill South, Ltd,
50.000 Zinc Corporation, Ltd.
75.000 Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
25.000 Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
300.000
150.000 Ordinary shares will, subject to the approval of the shareholders
of Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s), Ltd., be taken firm by
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s), Ltd., or a subsidiary investment
company controlled by it.
I 75,000 Ordinary shares have been taken firm by Wallace H. Smith & Co.,
Sharebrokers, of 361 Collins Street, Melbourne, and may be allotted
to such persons as they may direct.
625,000
DIRECTORS*
MARSHAL LAWRENCE BAILLIEU, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne. Investor.
COL. THE HON. HAROLD EDWARD COHEN, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor.
SIR COLIN FRASER, K. 8., 36i) Collins Street, Melbourne, Mining Engineer.
SENATOR THE HON. SIR WALTER MASSY-GREENE, K.C.M.G., 360
Collins Street, Melbourne, Company Manager.
GERALD MUSSEN, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Investor.
HALIBURTON ARTHUR SHEPPARD, 331 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Sharebroker.
HENRY ST. JOHN SOMERSET, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Mining
Engineer.
BANKERS;
The English, Scottish & Australian Bank, Limited, Collins Street, Melbourne,
SOLICITORS AT MELBOURNE:
Pavey, Wilson & Cohen, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS AT BURNIE:
Crisp, Edwards & Wilson, Town Hall Buildings, Burnie.
AUDITOR:
Leo Brand Tomlins, of the firm of Messrs. Cook, Tomlins & Mirams,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS:
E. L. & C. Baillieu, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Wallace H. Smith & Co., 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LONDON REPRESENTATION:
Austral Development, Limited, 95 Gresham Street, London, E.C.2.
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT:
Robert Woodhead.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE;
Hugh G. Brain, C/o Secretariat Proprietary, Limited, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY;
The Company has been formed for the purpose of establishing the wood
pulp and paper industry at Burnie (Tas.) and/or elsewhere, and for the other
objects set out in the Memorandum of Association.
Both pulp and paper will be made by the Company, but, whereas in
other countries the main material used is softwood, the Company will utilise
Australian hardwood.
With the proceeds of this present issue of shares, the Company will
establish a first unit of pulp and paper making plant at Burnie, Tasmania,
capable of making annually 15,000 tons of fine printings, writings and
typewriting papers.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES. .
The minimum subscription on which Directors may proceed to allotment is five
shares on each of which shares the sum of 5/- (covering both application and allotment
money) shall have been paid to and received by the Company.
Priority of allotment will be given to the extent of—
(a) 25,000 shares in respect of applications from bona fide residents of Tasmania;
(b) 100,000 shares in respect of applications from H. N. H. Mirams (as Trustee)
and/or his nominees;
(c) 25,000 shares in respect of applications from shareholders in Tasmanian Paper
Pty., Ltd., other than those interested in other capacities.
A general priority in allotment (outside the shares taken firm and the above-
mentioned priorities) will be given to applications from shareholders on the Australian
registers of North Broken Hill, Ltd., Broken Hill South, Ltd., the Zinc Corporation,
Ltd., Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia, Limited, and to shareholders of
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s), Ltd.
The granting of priority is in all cases conditional upon its being expressly claimed
by the applicant concerned; and priority may be claimed by each applicant in respect
of one qualification only.
Intending investors who are desirous of claiming priority of allotment in respect
of any of such beforementioned qualifications or of their shareholdings above referred
to, and who were registered as such shareholders on the 21st day of April, 1936, should
so state on the special place in the application form indicated for the purpose.
In the case of over-subscription, the Directors may make allotment by ballot or
otherwise at their discretion. If the number of shares allotted be less than the number
applied for, the surplus application and allotment money will be returned.
Prospectuses and forms of application for shares may be had from the office of —
Secretariat Pty., Ltd., Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
The offices of the Brokers —
E. L. and C. Baillieu, Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l;
Wallace H. Smith and Co., 361 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
The members of the Stock Exchanges of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Launceston, Hobart and Perth.
The subscription list will be opened on the 29th day of April, 1936, and will
close at 5.30 p.m. on the Bth day of May, 1936, and applications sent by post to the
Registered Office of the Company and postmarked not later than the actual closing
date will be considered.
Directors reserve the right to close the subscription list at any time earlier than the
closing time above stated. Directors may decline any application.


NOBEC
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEI3
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL'S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, WA: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, OLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited,
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
Public Notices.
Mount Coolon Gold Mines, No Liability.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
One shilling (1/-) per share has been declared
on all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company. The dividend is due and payable
at the Registered Office of the Company on
Friday, the 22nd day of May, 1936. Transfer
Books and Share Registers will close at 5 p.m.
on Wednesday, the 6th day of May, and reopen
at 10 a.m. on Friday, the Bth day of May,
1936, and shareholders registered on Thursday,
the 7th day of May, 1936, will be entitled to
receive the dividend. Dividend Warrants will
be posted direct to shareholders.
By Order of the Board.
HUGH G. BRAIN, Manager.
27th April, 1936.
TO ADA KITCHING, formerly of 216 Onslow
Road, Subiaco, in the State of Western
Australia
APPLICATION is being made in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia by
Frederick Noell to have Lot 55 on plan
3357, the subject of Certificate of Title Volume
899, folio 132, vested in him free of any claim
by you. The application will be listed for
hearing at the June Sittings of the Court.
Any parties interested should communicate
with the Master of the Court.
ABBOTT & ABBOTT,
of Commercial Bank Chambers, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Applicant.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
5 WELL-BORING PLANTS
FOR SALE
In first-class order, capacities 300 to 2500
feet, with Tool Equipment and Engines,
These plants have all been built for our
own use, and are up-to-date in every
respect. Apply
HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD.,
Engineers and Artesian Well Drillers,
Box 381 D, G.P.0., Adelaide.
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd.
Production before February, 1938, and
profits of 11.8 p.c. p.a. (subject to
taxation) on the initial capital of
£1,200,000 are estimated (on an output of
15.000 tons p.a. of fine printing and
writing papers) by Robert Woodhead, an
overseas paper-manufacturing expert,
who has a four years’ engagement with
the new Tasmanian paper co. The public
(in the first instance shareholders in the
founder companies) will be offered
325.000 ords., subject to limited priority
rights of Tasmanian residents.
The prospectus was issued last week.
The Gerald Mussen interests get 150,000
deferreds (virtually ords. after a total
div. of Is. 2.4 d. has been paid) and Tas.
Paper 100,000 deferreds. North Broken
Hill, B.H. South and Electrolytic Zinc
each take 75,000 ords. firm for cash;
Zinc Corp. comes in for 50,000, and
Australian Glass for 25,000. Amalga-
mated Zinc will take 150,000 ords. for
cash (to be transferred to a subsidiary),
while Wallace H. Smith and Co., share-
brokers, have taken 175,000 ords. firm.
Total cash issue is £950,000, including
the 350,000 shares now offered to the
public ; the 250,000 deferreds will bring
the share-register total up to £1,200,000,
There are 1,800,000 ords. in reserve, over
300.000 of which, if any issue be made
within five years after commencement of
production, North 8.H., B.H. South, the
E.Z. Co. and Aust. Glass will have an
option.
Including assets acquired for the
deferred shares issued, capital outlay is
estimated at £996,000—£305,000 for
forests, rights, etc., £171,000 for build-
ings, water supply, sewers, sidings, etc.,
£470,000 for the paper mill, and £50,000
for forest equipment. For working
capital £125,000 is allowed, and £79,000
for flotation exes, and contingencies.
In 1934-35 42,459 tons of paper
similar to which the co. will produce was
imported into the Commonwealth. The
co. anticipates no difficulty in getting
£2B a ton for it’s products. On an out-
put of 15,000 tons p.a., revenue is set
down at £420,000, and exes., including
£40,350 for depreciation, at £278,000,
leaving a profit (subject to taxation) of
£142,000.
Cutting on a 20-25 years’ cycle, the
prospectus estimates that the timber
available, with regrowth, would support
a much larger paper production than that
immediately contemplated.
The co.’s expert, now in England super-
vising plant purchase, says “the quality
of the paper which can be produced
with a modern plant from the chemical
pulp made from Tasmanian hardwood is
excellent... .There can be no hesitation
in affirming that, using this pulp, all the
finer grades of paper in the class the co.
proposes to make will equal in quality
the corresponding papers at present being
imported.”
Federal Governments of other days
were sympathetic towards the establish-
ment of an Australian paper and/or
newsprint industry. The large and influ-
ential interests behind the present float
seem satisfied with the present position
from both a technical and a marketing
point of view. That they are putting up
£625,000 of their own money after full
and patient investigations is encourag-
ing from the investor’s viewpoint.
Bulolo Gold Dredging is offering
60,000 new five-dollar shares at 20 dol-
lars (Canadian) each, one for 16. Issued
capital now stands at $4,700,000 in
five-dollar shares. The fresh capital is
wanted to finance erection of two new
dredges. There are four now on the
property; the first set in during March,
1932, and the last in August, 1934. No. 5,
capacity 250,000 c.y. monthly, to dig
80ft. below water-level, is expected to be
at work in about six months ; designs for
No. 6, to dig 115 ft. below water-level,
have just been completed. With five
dredges working to capacity, there is 12
years’ work ahead, with the probability
of more payable ground being developed.
Subject to testing and confirmation values,
the co, has agreed to take 400,000 new
ss. shares at par in Upper Watut Gold
Alluvials, and to undertake technical
direction of that co.’s operations. At
the moment, Upper Watut has an issued
capital of £200,000 in ss. shares. The new
money will be used to instal additional
plant, and thus increase output, to the
benefit of costs.
* * * *
Cuthbert’s Misima expects to have its
enlarged plant ready by the end of the
year. The tonnage treated is to be
bumped up from 15,000 to 40,000 p.a.
A 6d. div. and 5 p.c, bonus to the white
staff have been declared, absorbing £7875.
* * * *
For the 11% months to the end of
January, Koroere (Fiji) spent £11,866
on prospecting and development. A
final appraisement of tonnages and
values cannot be made until more is
known about the vertical extension of
the ore-body. Assuming that it extends
a moderate distance above and below
No. 4 tunnel level, and to the northward,
between 200,000 tons and 500,000 tons,
averaging 4dwt. or more, might be ex-
pected, the board says. That leaves out
of the reckoning any ore which may be
developed from Nos. 1, 2 and 5 tunnels.
On the Cardigan lease there is about
15,000 tons of ore developed, much of it
averaging over an ounce.
* ❖ *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) will pay Is. per share
on May 22. Ore remaining in the mine
at the moment will keep the mill occu-
pied for about six months. The total
return from the mine is expected'to be
about 13s. per share, says chairman
Colin Fraser. There is, however, , a
reasonable prospect of more ore being
developed. Something more definite
should be known in about a month’s
time.
* Ijt * *
Golden Plateau, which has been test-
ing ground at Booloumba Creek (Q.) for
New Middle Creek Alluvials, recom-
mends abandonment of the option.
Shaft-sinking showed values of from
5.5 grains to 4.5 grains gold per c.y.; but
the wash is narrow and rock bars lie
between the deposits.
* * % $
Through delay in completion of plans
and difficulty in obtaining satisfactory
tenders, Barry town Gold Dredging,
which has interests at Greymouth (M.L.J,
does not expect to start operations till
the end of the year, according to the
first annual report. A pilot treatment
plant has been erected (to obviate
delays in initial stages of recovery), and
£11,549 has been expended on a dredge.
Liquids totalled £22,722, while prelimi-
nary exes, figured for £5lO, creditors for
£1944 and a loan account for £17,474;
p. and 1. debit was £3701.
* * * *
New Carshalton, Bendigo (Vic.), which
closed down in November owing to
the number of shares forfeited, is on the
hunt for new capital. If is a low-grade
proposition. At the 280 ft. north level
the formation is 29ft. wide, while in the
south level there are large bodies of
highly mineralised spurs showing fan-
samples of gold. Crushings to date,
taken from every face in the mine, have
averaged 3.ldwt.
* * * *
Since resumption of operations at B.H.
Prop.’s old mine at the Barrier, 3913
tons has been treated, including 286 tons
for direct smelting. Mill production was
549 tons lead concentrates, assaying 71.2
p.c. lead and 51.70 z. silver, and 651 tons
zinc concentrates, assaying 52.8 p.c. zinc.
* * * -jf
Yellowdine, pick of De Bernales’s
Westralian group, aims at crushing 2500
tons in its first month, increasing by 500
tons a month until the plant’s maximum
monthly capacity (5000 tons) has been
reached. A 15dwt. grade is expected.
The main shaft is being sunk to 300 ft.,
where crosscutting will determine the
value of the shoot in settled sulphide
country. No. 2 level (100 ft.) gives indi-
cations that the reef is lower in value
than at No. 1 level (50ft.), but payable
values have been proved for 245 ft., the
reef being up to 37ft. wide in the main
body. A diamond drill recently passed
through 2ift. of quartz, averaging 29dwt.
per ton (core assay), at a vertical depth
of 202 ft.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Options, which has
already spent £29,040 on the Three Boys,
Southern Cross (W.A.), in respect of pur-
chase, development and plant, is making
Id. call in order to bring the mine to
production. Plant-erection is almost
complete; it is expected to commence
operations early in June.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated, Grant’s
Patch (W.A.), will pay its first div. (6d.
a share) on June 4. Ore reserves at
Oct. 31 last were put at 14,470 tons,
expected to average around 12dwt.;
later developments have increased the
tonnage. The property is equipped with
a 10-head battery, capacity 1200 tons a
month.
* * * !)!
Western Queen, formed in July, 1934,
to take over a Warda Warra (W.A.)
property from United Options, is trans-
forming itself into a new co., Western
Queen (1936) G.M., NX. Nominal
capital is £30,000 in 600,000 Is. shares paid
to 6d. Threepence is to be called immedi-
ately, leaving another 3d. to come, if
required. The old co.’s creditors will
take £4500, reconstruction exes. £250,
underwriting of new shares £750, and
£2OOO is expected to bring the mine to
production in about two months. Plant
is now reported in good order. It is
reckoned that the main ore-body at the
100 ft. level has yet to be entered at the
200 ft. level, where prospecting has been
along a spur.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Meekatharra Mines (W.A.) is to be
floated with London money—£l,ooo,ooo
(Aust.) in 5,000,000 ss. shares —to acquire
from Herman Mandelstam and others all
properties on the main Paddy’s Flat
line of reef. Shallow workings on this
line have been extremely profitable in
the past, and deeper ground may be
even more so. So far, however, little
development has been done.
* H: * *
Claude de Bernales, who has added
coal to his list of Westralian mining
ventures, has secured an option on a
property at Collie which gives “every
indication of the existence of a large
body of excellent-quality coal,” Early
development of the Wilga coalfield, near
Collie, by De Bernales is probable.
* * * #
London-controlled Youanmi Gold
Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), denies recent state-
ments regarding operations and future
prospects. The co. has made no official
announcement since the chairman’s
speech at the annual meeting on Dec.
17. It is intended, to send an official
report direct to shareholders.
*/* * *
Negotiations mentioned B. 29/4/’36
have resulted in North Kalgurli Central
giving Paringa an option on its Kal-
goorlie property. Purchase consideration
if the option is exercised will be 165,684
fully-paid Paringa shares. Nominal capi-
tal of Paringa is £20,000 (stg.) in
4,000,000 Is. shares; approximately
3.442.000 have been issued. North Kal-
gurli Central’s capital is £150,000 (Aust.)
in 300,000 10s. shares, of which 207,000
(paid to 4s. 6d.) have been taken.
Central, a low-grade show, has been
tested down to 500 ft. vertical.
* $ . * *
Yilgangie Queen, N.L., which has a
rich show near Yarri, has cleaned up
25 tons for 2oz. 12dwt. a ton. The
main shaft is now being sunk another
100 ft. The co. has already proved by
six shafts gold-bearing stone for 1000 ft,
Six parallel lodes are also being
developed, with satisfactory values to
water level (90ft.). A mill will be con-
sidered if values live down.
* sH * Hs
Leonora Central, N.L., which has taken
a working interest in American Morton
Webber’s Mount reservation, near Wid-
giemooltha, south of Coolgardie (W.A.),
has obtained ioz. values over 500 ft. from
the two central ore-bodies. On the co.’s
Leonora property, erection of a 4000-
ton-a-month treatment plant is mooted.
Chairman Harry Barraclough told
United Westralian shareholders that
10.000 tons ore, going Bdwt'., had been
developed, that 620 tons treated had
yielded 21 loz. gold over the plates, with
3,5 ’weights in the tailings, and that if
shaft A realised expectations another 8000
tons would be developed later on. Early
dividends are promised.
* * * *
Developments at the 200 ft. level of
Consolidated Gold Areas’ White Hope
mine, Hampton Plains (W.A.), have
disclosed 16dwt. stuff over sft. 2in.;
full width of the lode has not yet been
ascertained. It is estimated that there
is 80,000 tons of 7dwt. ore above the
300 ft, level.
* * * *
Under the S. African Government’s
new scheme, Rand goldmining shows will
be subject to two taxes; (a) a straight
tax of 15 p.c. on profits and ( b ) a gradu-
ated tax (not to exceed 35 p.c.), varying
according to the ratio of profits to gold
yield. If profits do not exceed 12% p.c.
of revenue, the amount of tax ( b ) will
be nil. In other words, mines whose
profits are less than one-eighth of revenue
will pay only tax (a)-15 p.c. Thus,
minimum tax is 15 p.c. and maximum
50 p.c. Under the old system a mine,
might be taxed as high as 80 p.c. on
profits,
* * * *
Cumberland Caledonia G.M., having
unwatered and sampled its tin property at
Torington (N.S.W.), is pushing ahead
with development and plant installation.
There is approx. 1000 tons ore already
developed above the 150 ft. level; re-
coverable value is 2 p.c. concentrate
(70 p.c. tin). Co. was previously in-
terested in the Gilbert field (Q.).
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * t *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt,
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd.;. 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.—Advt.


ttlo*
m
* * ? - ?
i >
li
i
\
y
m
:
HI
&&
HMH
V
v
>7
I
■Bli
IS
Snap
yy<y
I
m -
M
smmm
m
m
m
000*
Wet road . . . another car
skids broadside on to you
. . . jam on the brakes • • •
then WHAT? ...
STOP... or S-L-I-D-E-?
It's up to you to see that you
can stop ... in time! It's not
enough to stop your
WHEELS; good brakes will
do that. You must stop your
CAR. Tyres with traction in
the CENTRE of the tread
WHERE IT MEETS THE
ROAD will stop you
quickest . . . will grip and
hold in the wet and stop you
within a split second of
braking.
This centre tread traction is
the quicker-stopping grip
given by the sharp-edged
rubber diamonds in the
centre of the All-Weather
tread (exclusive to Good-
year).
That is the Goodyear Mar-
gin of Safety. It costs noth-
ing extra. You never know
when you'll need it. You
get it by asking for "G-3"
Tyres.
accidents
V
p
A
\
/
\
5-Cl7-36.
FD


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Young Bill walked from
nut to horse-yard last Sunday morning,
and the sleepy station was galvanised into
incredulous speculation. Instead of a
faded blue shirt, cotton tweed trousers,
elastic-sided boots and a battered felt hat,
Bill wore a loud check shirt, gauntlets on
his wrists, high-heeled and enormously-
spurred boots, a sombrero decorated with
a patent-leather band and a large red and
green handkerchief about his throat. His
trousers were hidden behind wide leather
wings that he had strapped to his legs.
He mounted a horse, coiled a clothes-
line in loops on the saddle and cantered
past the silent men and startled dogs. “So-
l°ng, you hombres,” cried Bill, “me and
my pinto is a-headed east.” “Goin’ to a
fancy-dress ball?” asked somebody.
“Nope,” answered Bill; “I’m off to Syd-
ney to see that bloke Zane Grey. He’s
goin’ to write a book about western
Queensland, and the ’ero is to be a
‘reckless young Australian cowboy.’ And
I’m it!”
* * * *
Tid’apa”: According to Sydney’s
Taronga Park officials, polar bears are a
drug on the market. They have a locally-
born two-year-old on their hands, and
there seems no prospect of getting rid of
the beast, even as a gift. This is the
second bear born and reared there, the
previous one having been taken in ex-
change for a pair of jaguars from the
Cairo Zoo. These bears are very small
when born, the youngster being only
about the size of a guinea-pig—in pro-
portion to the size of its parents it is
the smallest animal of all, it is claimed.
But my nomination goes to the young of
the kangaroo, which, when actually born
and before it reaches the pouch, is so
small that its presence often passes un-
noticed when the mother has been shot.
* * * *
“Coronet”; The fallacy that no high-
class Arab mares ever came out of
Arabia persists, despite the fact that for
years prior to the war mares of the blood
were imported freely by European and
American studmasters. Occasionally a
second-rater was passed off as a kehailan,
but men like Upton and Blunt—both of
whom made a lifelong study of the Arab
—were not deceived. Haidee, imported
by the latter and generally conceded to
be the greatest Arab mare ever taken to
England, was undoubtedly a Keheilet
Ajuz—the best blood in Arabia. If at
the present time there is no trade in
Arabs the reason lies in the lack of de-
mand. Specialised breeding has evolved
strains superior to the Arab for every
purpose except one —that of saddle-pony
in conditions similar to those prevailing
in its native land.
“Geoloin”: Tell “Burrum” (B.
25/3/’36) that corned-beef water has
its uses. Old fossickers and bushworkers
swear by it as a pick-me-up after an ex-
tended jag at the bush shanty; many
reckon it far superior to painkiller in
that respect. As one old fossicker put
it: “It squares a bloke Up after the spree
he’s had, an’ works up a bonzer thirst
for the one he’s sweatin’ on.”
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: Maoriland’s kiwi also
Morse-signals by a gentle tapping on the
ground with the long bill (B. 15/4/’36).
Her message is one sent to earthworms
that a gentle shower is falling and invit-
ing them to come near the surface to see
for themselves. The simulation of gently
falling rain must be realistic, for the
worms come to the surface, to be
snapped up by the bird.
# * -f *
“Porcupine Joe”: Sydney’s changed
all right. Don’t mean the Bridge, but
when I come back to the pub I was stop •
ping at, first time I’ve bin down there
since 1920,1 sez: “Gimme a drop of O.P.
rum, please, miss ; I’m feelin’ a bit chilly.”
Private bar it was, all jake. She shoves
over one of them decanter things an’ a
glass about the size of the missus’s
“Can anyone lend me a hanky?”
thimble, an’ I pours it about half full.
“’Ere,” she sez, “go easy; you’ve gotter
pay for that.” “Pay for what?” I sez ;
“I’m payin’ all right.” “That’ll be a bob,”
she sez ; “you’re over the line.” “Wot
line?” I sez, passin’ over the bob. “That
there line,” she sez, showin’ a ring on the
glass about an inch from the bottom.
Stone the crows, it wouldn’t ’old me ’ollow
tooth full up to that line, and it was
eightpence then. No wonder Billy ’Ughes
is singin’ out about the birth-rate,
* * « *
“Liar”: I found him in his camp on
the Queensland downs, rubbing fat on
the bullets for his .303 —but the fat was
salted. “Hey!” I said, “that won’t do
your barrel any good ; if you want to
keep the nickel down, why not get some
of the proper stuff? Or else go over
there to the Diamantina and shoot a pig
for lard.” “Well, it’s this way, mate,” he
replied. “It’s not the nickel; but since I
put this new Short Special barrel on the
old gun I shoots me ’roos so far away
that the fur’s all dropping out by the
time I walks up to them. So I salts ’em.”
* * * *
“Woorak”: At Drung-Drung (Wim-
mera, Vic.) I watched a log floating down
the flood-swollen river, its passengers a
fox (at one end) and four rabbits (at the
other). Reynard stared hungrily at the
rabbits, which stared back, but from an
entirely different motive. It seemed that
a battle of wits was proceeding. When
the fox at last got to his feet and made
a move towards the bunnies they com-
menced jumping up and down and side-
ways, apparently in a desperate effort to
tip Reynard into the swirling water. As
he advanced down the log their efforts
became more furious, and the log rolled
sufficiently to overbalance their enemy,
who struck out for the nearest bank.
“I.C. ‘de M.”: Near the Amphitheatre,
Bundanoon (N.S.W.), we saw a fox take
his tail in his mouth and spin round and
round, much to the fascination of two
magpies which were standing staring
from a log. At each turn cunning old
Reynard edged a little nearer to a tempt-
ing meal. The birds stopped quite still
until the fox was within bounding dis-
tance ; then he sprang. But a tail feather
from the startled but now fast-moving
maggies was his sole reward for much
physical and mental effort.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: The probable reason for
“Dusty’s” swarm of bees hanging to the
wool bale (B. 8/4/’36) was that the queen
was injured. It is always the old queen
who leaves the hive, and her life depends
upon the condition of her wings. I once
came upon a poor old matron whose
wings were frayed, looking for the
equivalent of the mod. det. bung, across
a ploughed field. A few workers were
following her along the ground, and the
rest were circling in the air above. 1
made a tent for her out of an old wheat
bag. She settled in, and I took the
swarm a day or two later.
H* <l> sfc
“Ennbee”: When a matured whale
kicks over the traces mere man should
just sit back at a safe distance. Saw one
go berserk at Eden (N.S.W.) under the
sting of a broken harpoon and madly
charge the ocean steamer wharf, sinking
four skiffs, a motor launch, and finally a
50ft. seagoing schooner yacht. Over
40ft. of the wharf was divorced from
the main structure in the process. The
whale made seaward with no apparent
loss of vigor, but the clean-up took
weeks and the best of £2OO.
* 4* ❖ %
“Nimau”; A resident of Stewart
Island (M.L.) had a lucky escape when he
inadvertently happened upon a means of
extinction as yet unexploited by the fic-
tion writer. He had been carrying a ,22
calibre cartridge in the same pocket as
his pipe. The cartridge became lodged
in the pipe bowl, and when its owner lit
up the cartridge exploded and the bullet
buried itself in the wall of the room.
At first he thought someone had fired
at him through the window, and not for
some time did he realise just what had
happened.
* * * *
“Colon”: “Luke the Liar’s” settling
troubles (B. 18/3/’36) remind me uv the
’orrible time me an’ the ole man had
when he started off on our block. We’d
scrubbed a couple of hundred acres,
barrin’ a flamin’ big blue-gum which
must’ve been near six feet through, and
we’d stuck ’er under wheat. Caught the
rain, too, an’ up she’s cornin’ pretty
when, spare me days! if a thunderin’ big
mob of galahs doesn’t lob on us an’ stait
rootin’ up the green shoot. There wuz
a tame cocky gone bush among them,
an’ he’d sit in the gum an’ keep nit while
the rest guzzled. When a man’d try
to sneak up on them he’d holler out
“Look out, boys!” an’ they’d hop up
into the gum out o’ reach of me muzzle-
loader. Well, me an’ the ole man wuz
nearly crazy when I get’s a brainwave.
We mixes up a copperful of birdlime and
I shins up this tree at night and white-
washes it. The next day the birds are
tearin’ in as usual when they get the
office that I’m cornin’; they all makes
for the blue-gum, and didn’t they cuss
an’ holler when they finds they’re stuck
fast! I ambles up ready for the mass-
acre when suddenly the boss cocky yells
“Now, boys, all together ; let ’er have it.”
Strike me fat if they didn’t lift that
gum clean out by the roots an’ carry ’er
ten chain before the bird-lime gives way
an’ she drops—slap on the new drill!
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Outward appearances
denoted familiarity with Strawberry and
co. until the lass exclaimed to her male
escort, as they stood in front of a
machinery firm’s stand at the Sydney
Royal Show, “Oh, look at the new cow-
bails!” Grins extended to those within
hearing when he corrected with “No.
they’re newfangled milking machines.”
The source of discussion was a 10-stand
shearing plant.
“Jesmond”: “Pick” (B. 8/4/’36)
should have supplied salt with his par. on
penguins found at Portland. Firstly, as
these birds live solely on a fish diet, 1
fail to see why they should forage in pig-
sties and henyards. Secondly, they come
ashore at night, spending the daylight
hours at sea. Thirdly, they do not like
the sound of humans ; if they hear voices
on a beach they will either not come
ashore or will make a detour. For
years penguins have been an attraction at
Phillip Island (Vic.), and it is a peculi-
arity that they are not affected by light.
The guides always use a powerful torch
to pick out the birds when they come
from the water, and if the sightseers are
quiet the birds will march past within a
few feet of the torch. But if there is the
slightest sound scouts will wait at the
water’s edge and warn incoming birds,
and they will keep well away.
* * * *
“Kella”: Queer accidents! Our
ploughman was pulling a strap tightly to
buckle it when, the strap breaking, his
hand flew back under his nose. He
knocked himself clean out!
* * * $
“Horsetailer”: I’ll back a sandalwood
cutter’s life in North Westralia for loneli-
ness. Struck one at the Lucky Bean well
when overlanding along the telegraph
line between the Fitzroy River and
Broome. He had been there over 12
months, had forgotten the month and
hadn’t seen anybody except the linesman,
months back. He looked a cross between
a bushranger and a scarecrow, having
lost his razor and being out of most
commodities. His main diet was cockatoo.
Around the camp were stacks of wood
and roots, carted there by spring dray,
that would have done credit to any wood-
yard, The lone cutter’s ambition was to
sell this in Broome and to quench a
12-month-old thirst with the proceeds.
OLD RIVER DAYS.
[To-day there is only one regular steamer running
all the year round on the Murray; and none on
the Darling.]
On Murrumbidgee the sunrise flashes,
The moonlight glitters on Darling-side;
Where parrots scream and the wild duck
dashes.
Old Murray’s reaches are long and wide.
From the Snowy Ranges, far-off and lonely,
From Queensland borders the waters come
Three thousand miles; yet each mile is only
Another step that will lead us home.
Back to the winding watercourses,
Back to the steamer-roads again
Where the whistles startled the station horses
And the women waved to the steamer men.
Through the mists of years you can see them
going,
With paddles beating and funnels loud,
With steam that bursts from the furnace
glowing
On the river mist’s grey, ghostly shroud.
The Princess Royal, the fast Freetrader.,
The Rothbury, the Eliza Jane,
The Telegraph and the old Crusader,
They’re steaming out on the floods again.
They blow for the wood-piles down the river,
Racing to get to Mannum first,
Though the wood in their planks may creak
and quiver.
Though sandbars threaten and boilers burst.*
There is something grand in the river stories,
There was something brave in the steamer
days,
When the morning gleam and the sunset glories
Shone on the changing waterways.
To thrashing of paddles and lights and laughter,
Love and dancing and voices strong;
Heedless of fate and of what came after,
They lived men’s lives as they stormed along.
Bound for the narrow Murrumbidgee,
Daring the Darling’s fickle tide,
They travelled out where the sand and gidya
Baffled the boats when the flood-streams died.
What were the miles, when they laughed at
distance?
The river was home enough for them.
Oh! the lazy push of their powerful pistons,
Driving out to the desert’s hem.
Men of the rivers! Men of the steamers'
From the long West Coast of New South
Wales,
To Goolwa bar, in the land of dreamers.
We see you pass and we hear your hails,
And your whistles calling on Darling and
Murray.
Where do you steer and where do you bide?
In the engine’s scream and the smooth wheel’s
hurry
We hear the dirge of a world that died.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


It is marvellous what' in
fluence the particular type of country ani-
mals are worked in has on their breeding.
In the hilly districts of South Gippsland
(Vic.) ploughing is carried out by run-
ning the plough round and round the
hills till the summit is reached. This has
gradually bred a type of horse with the
two legs on one side considerably shorter
than the other,which keeps them balanced
on the furrows till they reach the top.
Great difficulty was once experienced in
the same district in building level cow-
yards on the hillsides. This has been
overcome by breeding cows with short
forelegs like wallabies ; standing on the
hillsides head upwards, their backbone is
horizontal and the udder therefore hangs
normally. A special type of cattle-dog
was also produced, a cross between a
kelpie and a flying-fox, to facilitate
rounding up the cows in the timbered hill
country. This idea had to be abandoned
as the cattle-dogs made heavy inroads on
the orchards.
-t- * * *
“Claremont”: Accounts of early-day
W.A. all stress the importance of culti-
vating the olive, yet to-day I cannot call
to mind a single individual or company
growing olives for profit. 1 have come
across stray olive-trees in unexpected
places in W.A., all doing well, proving
the suitability of the climate,
which in parts is similar to
Italy’s. Mulberries, some alone
in their magnificence, others in
sizable plantations, are to be
met with throughout the south-
west. Before everybody got
drunk over the discoveries at
Gnarlbine Soak, and forgot to
“rouse out of it,” Gropers lived
isolated but contented lives,
and the cultivation of the silk-
worm was going to work won-
ders for them. But the “fields”
put a bit of money into W.A.’s
pocket, and its ambitions
soared accordingly: “Let
Italians grow olives and silk-
worms! W.A. was in the ‘big
game’! ”
H: * *
“Dungeness”: What is it,
precisely, that does the fertilisa-
tion job for a coconut? As a
general rule, if a dropped nut
is found showing growth, every
nut dropped from that particu-
lar tree will also grow. Trees
which drop sterile nuts seldom
yield fertile ones. It is not
necessary to wait for the sprout
before deciding whether a nut
will grow, as the roots often
develop first. In any doubtful
case, plant the nut lightly in
a box or tin with a little good
soil and holes for drainage and
watch for roots to show. I’ve
known a drifted nut, picked up
on a beach 100 miles from the
nearest tree, to root after a
week of this treatment —but
several others didn’t.
“Bogaduck”: 1 found old Joe dangling
a bare foot in our S.A. creek. In reply to
my “Whaffor?” he said “Leeches,” and
pointed to the back of his neck, whereon
were two fine boils in that painful stage
before the head forms. Having caught
two, he put a little milk on each boil to
attract the wrigglers. When they filled
up and dropped off, the swellings had
“It's mullet, son—school mullet."
“Jist reached the leavin' standard, I s'pose ."
almost vanished. “Best boil cure on
earth,” the old boy said. “There’ll be
no sign of any inflammation to-morrow,
and a leech bite always heals up without
trouble.”
* * ❖ ❖
“Granova”: Even if “Win” hadn't told
his plough horses it was the last round
(B. 11/3/’36) they would have done it
faster. Horses have a very good sense
of time ; hasn’t “Win” noticed how diffi-
cult his team is to start when it is almost
knock-off time? It is the same with dogs.
At our homestead, first man up rings a
bullock bell to waken the others ; an old
kelpie immediately brings in the cows and
“C’mon, boays , time to start to make a move to begin."
then sets off down another paddock for
the working horses. On Sundays, how-
ever, she brings in the cows without wait-
ing for the bell, which is rung two hours
later than usual.
“Spud”; Many bushmen ridicule the
suggestion that dingoes will attack
humans, but sometimes they cause un-
easy moments. A farmer in the Great
Southern (Westralia) district who en-
countered two full-grown and three half-
grown dingoes let fly at them with the
only cartridge he had; they immedi-
ately attacked him. For ten minutes,
with his back to a tree, he kept them
off with the stock of his gun until the
arrival of his neighbor with a rifle ended
a tense situation.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: “Shrink Stope” (B.
1 /4/’36), who is certain that a spark from
a steel drill will not explode dynamite,
differs from the half-dozen experts, ex-
plosives men and practical miners who
gave evidence in the case of McNeil v.
the Ivanhoe G.M. in the Westralian
courts years ago. About to fire out a
face, Mac went ahead with the bulk of
the dynamite, leaving his mate to bring
along the fuses and primers. Reaching
the face later, the mate found Mac
lying unconscious, with an Bft. drill half-
way through his shoulder. The co.
averred that Mac had been using the drill
as a tamping rod, the resultant spark
setting otf the fracteur in the hole. All
their experts declared that such a thing
was possible. Mac said he was using a
wooden rod, and that a chip of stone
must have struck the spark. This pos-
sibility was disputed, but Mac won his
case when a sampler swore that he had
found a shattered wooden rod further
back in the stope. Incidentally, it isn’t
the newchum who uses a steel drill as a
tamping rod, but the experienced but
blase miner who, having handled tons of
explosive, is too tired to look for a
proper one.
ifc ❖ £
“Viau”: Sydney prawn-men recently
found an unusual specimen among their
haul; it had nippers on the ends of long
jointed arms. This type is common in
New Guinea streams; the nimble crea-
tures dart like lightning from under stones,
overturned by searching natives with their
toes, but are caught and collected in fair
quantities. They grow to big sizes, have
a fairly hard shell, and are edible when
boiled in a mixture of fresh and sea
waters. About the beginning of March
shoals of tiny infants show up along any
beach where an outflow of fresh water
brings them seeking their ordinary home ;
sharks accompany the shoals, eating the
fish that feed upon the prawnlets. The
adults become unpalatable towards
December through egg-bearing; it is
likely that the spawn, is carried by the
stream into the sea water to be hatched
out.
'l'
“Pituri”: Let me help “Country Saw-
bones” (B. l/4/’36) bury some more
~»yths:
An iron ring prevents rheumatism.
A fat pig dies quicker than a poor one.
Running water cures snakebite.
A dowser can’t sleep over an underground
stream.
A lightning-struck tree won’t burn.
Abos. possess medicinal knowledge of
which the white man is ignorant, particu-
larly regarding contraceptives.
A gecko’s bite is fatal.
* * * *
"Bull-ant Bill”; Tell “Pick” that the
paper-scared rabbit story (B. l/4/’36) is
one of many strange yarns told by ex-
pert trappers who don’t want to give
away their real methods to innocent in-
quirers.
* * * *
“Jobber”: It has never been a practice
of mine to read serial stories, but J. J.
Hardie may be interested to know that I
gave “The Bridle Track” a full round
when it first appeared, and am carrying
on. It’s a good yarn of work among
cattle, but may I ask what the drovers
were doing with young heifers in a mob
of 1200 bullocks?
❖
“Flight”: During a hot spell
in W.Q. I was motoring in
from the outstation and pulled
up to open a gate. A pair of
stone plovers had a nest right
in the middle of the road. 1
took the two eggs, which
couldn’t have been there more
than three days, and would
have been smashed for certain
if left. I intended to put them
under a hen and see what hap-
pened ; but 1 forgot, and they
were left in a tin, swathed in
rag, under my bed. About 10
days later there was a peeping
and scratching in that tin one
night; when I opened it out
tumbled two long-legged little
bundles of fluff. Next morn-
ing I turned the youngsters
loose in the garden, and in no
time they were nosing under
runners of couch grass with the
assurance of birds that had had
a course of lessons by post.
* * *
“Kwakprak”: Despite the
combined entomological ex-
perience of “Ex-Q.” (B.
15/4/’36) and his friends,
assembled since 1876 in
Speedy’s bar, 1 prefer Dr. R.
J. Tillyard as an authority on
“the minute biting flies of the
genus Ceratopogon, known as
‘sandflies’ in Australia.” The
“years ago” when “Ex-Q. left
Speedy’s bar for a breather in
order to learn how to identify
Simulidse couldn’t have been
many years, for the Sydney
School of Tropical Medicine
has only existed since 1930.
More than 14 species of Simulidse are
known in Australia, but what Australia
generally terms a sandfly, with or with-
out qualificatory adjectives, is a Cerato-
pogon.
RINGBARKIN.
Far beyond the city’s purlieus, where the
kookas and the curlews
And the bell-birds demonstrate assorted
noise,
Where the cocky seems to worry both through
drought that gives him curry
And through flood that just as ruthlessly
destroys,
You will find, it’s pretty certain, nearly every-
one’s expert in
How to ringbark trees. But Dad and Jim
and Bill
Will be hopelessly divided on the methods
they are guided
By, and which is best, the “collar-cut” or
“frill.”
They’ll discuss with animation every phase of
crop rotation,
Whether substitutes will ever menace wool;
Subjects range from Europe’s madness or the
raiding dingo’s badness
To the merits of McWhisker’s champion
bull;
But when these have all been settled there’ll
be someone hot and nettled
When he’s forced to gulp the controversial
pill
On another chap remarking, apropos of this
ringbarking,
That the “collar-cut” is better than the
“frill.”
Just to hack into the sapwood, making any
sort of gap, would
Be anathema to masters of the game
Who, with practised calculation, make the job
of slight duration,
And for whom a neat precision is the aim.
True it is they differ greatly in ideas of bring-
ing stately
Trees to slow demise, but when they’re out
to kill
The modus operandi to the bushman who is
handy
With the axe will be the “collar-cut” or
“frill.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


HITS
LYS
ROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
,-. "tt : -
‘f
J(W
m
i3fftspfeSp»
• ■■'
Wfc?
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MIGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Weed-control.
“J.W.”: Waugoola Shire (N.S.W.)
failed in all of six prosecutions against
owners for allegedly failing to destroy
skeleton weed. There are too many
authorities.
In N. S. Wales all stock routes are super-
vised by P.P. Boards, freehold land by
local-government bodies and Crown lands
by the Lands Department. Co-ordination
is difficult and action uneven. Queensland
has placed Crown lands under the Lands
Department and freehold under the
Home Office. Other States have unified
control, but in some of them it is lax.
The Commonwealth has control over
imports.
Despite a mass of legislation and con-
tinual propaganda there are 20 weeds
which are doing serious damage to pro-
duction. The C.S.I.R. estimates that,
according to district, 5 to 20 p.c. of the
wool clip is lost in Queensland through
Noogoora alone —say £50,000 p.a. on a
conservative basis. This is apart from
loss in land values, extra haulage, cost
of materials used to destroy the burr and
loss of revenue to the State.
The C.S.I.R. has had prepared by
G. A. Currie, B.Sc., a comprehensive re-
view of the position in which exhaustive
recommendations for experiment with
various pests are made. The main lines
laid down are:
Noogoora: Insect control, in co-opera-
tion with the Commonwealth Prickly-pear
Board.
Bathurst burr: Control by pasture man-
agement and insect control.
Thistles: Study of reasons for “thistle
years,” germination and chemical control
studies; also pasture management.
Cape tulip: Chemicals and culture.
Competing plants.
Skeleton weed: Chemicals, study of
food store and relation of plant to local
conditions.
St. John’s wort; Insect control.
Wild turnip (W.A.): Chemical control.
Lantana: Insect control. Continuation
of chemical experiments.
Ragwort; Insect control.
Most weeds are long-standing. Noo-
goora has been here since 1860. It was first
noticed as a pest on Noogoora station,
near Brisbane, but has ranged 1800 miles
away. One property is mentioned by the
C.S.I.R. on which burr-cutters’ wages
have reached £2OOO p.a. Bathurst burr
came from Chile in the ’forties. Its main
enemy is a fly which reduces its density,
but the insect has not yet been scientifi-
cally used on a large scale. Stinkwort
came from Germany in 1863 and infests
five States. Galvanised burr is native and
is spreading over large areas of n.-w.
N. S. Wales and Central Queensland.
Blackberry, skeleton weed, lantana are all
on the spread.
Sound is the C.S.I.R. investigator’s con-
clusion that “a co-ordination of weeds
work both within the council and
between the council and the States under
a single officer” is needed. Weeds are a
national problem which seems to be in-
creasing in magnitude—prickly-pear ex-
cepted. The pear was not solidly tackled
until it had grown from a mere problem
into a menace.
Short and Long Fallow.
“Nabawa”: While “Winfield” (B.
15/4/’36) is right on the matter of work-
ing fallow after rain, “Hortus” is not
wrong in saying that it should be worked
when dry. Working after rain conserves
rain moisture. But when there has been no
rain for some time it is often advisable
to work the ground to conserve the bit
of moisture from dew, for the frost to
sweeten it, or to destroy weeds. The
Boggabri Whites are successful wheat-
farmers, and their methods undoubtedly
suit their location, but long fallow is not
needed everywhere in nor’-west N.S.W.
because of their success with it. On the
heavy, highly phosphoric impregnated
soils, where summer rain is almost a cer-
tainty, heavy-yielding crops are grown
regularly on short fallow (a crop every
year).
With respect to the purpose of sheep
on fallow, jumbucks are not used merely
to eat down weeds; the weeds are
used to feed the sheep. The process is
something like this: After rain on the
fallow, the wild oats, thistles, etc., ger-
minate and come away (there will be
some self-sown wheat); this growth is
splendid sheep feed. Thus the farmer
makes the weeds pay for being on his
land, and, after the sheep have eaten them
“What d'yer think y' are —a trombone player ?”
down, he cultivates the ground, which has
benefited from the sheep droppings and
the compacting brought about by their
hooves. In a good season, he may even
top off lambs on a heavy growth of such
weeds as black oats, milk thistles, barley-
grass, etc.
Further, working the fallow won’t pre-
vent weed growth, as “Winfield” says,
unless the working is continuous, and
few farmers could afford that. A work-
ing after rain is to encourage weed
growth (and conserve moisture), and a
second working is done later to destroy
the weeds encouraged by the first. There
can be no mistake in letting the sheep
have the benefit of the weeds between
the workings.
Last season the Whites won the R.A.S.
championship of the nor’-west with a crop
of Geeralying that was remarkable in
that it was the first 50-acre plot ever seen
by the judges without a single weed. It
was on heavy black soil that was worked
seven times (inclusive of the first plough-
ing and the drilling with a combing). They
won first three places in the Boggabri
competition (11 entries) with three entries.
One has to admit their efficiency. But
other men have grown just as good crops
with fewer workings, on poorer soil, with
less rainfall, and using sheep. It’s all a
matter of locality and soil, suitable
wheat variety, weather and the man.
Profit in Sheep!
“Rom Ney”: B. J. Stocks’s claim that
good sheep in safe districts should pro-
duce three lamb drops in two years is
in a fair way to being substantiated. This
Cunningar (N.S.W.) farmer sent 70
suckers to Homebush (Sydney) recently.
Second drop from first-cross Romney
Marsh-merino ewes since December,
1934, they were extra prime and made
235. a head.
In December, 1934, Mr. Stocks mated
the ewes (120) with 3 p.c. selected South-
down flocks, and got 105 p.c. drop the
following April. Those lambs made an
average of 20s. sd. at three months old.
The ewes were mated in the same way
in August-September, 1935, and 100 p.c.
drop was marked in January of this year.
The 70 suckers mentioned were part
of it. The ewes will be mated again
at the beginning of May for a spring
drop, and the result will be marketed in
December.
At time of writing the ewes are in
splendid condition at the farm, in the
Harden district, and are carrying excel-
lent fleeces. Thus they will return a good
clip (it averaged 19d. a pound last
season) in addition to the lambs. Three
lots of lambs and two clips in two years
read like profit.
Of course, “8.J.” doesn’t rely solely
on his safe district. He has a thorough
system of pasture improvement. Lambs
grow from birth to truck, and are topped
off on lucerne. Ewes and rams are care-
fully selected, and as carefully managed.
The second lot. of suckers averaged
331 b. when dressed, were branded “Cele-
brity,” not one was rejected for export,
and Smithfield experts will be asked to
report on them. The Commonwealth
grader expressed astonishment that such
splendid carcasses could be produced at
this time of year.
Ataxia and Rickets in Lambs.
“Ghanam”; There is still a lot of
ataxia in lambs in Australia, and the main
influences which produce it seem to be
pre-natal. Small-boned youngsters get it
most. After a few days they begin to
lose control of their hindquarters, and
soon they can’t walk. There is then no
cure.
All sorts of causes are put forward.
Some blame poison plants or bad water.
Condition and size of bones —though
small and brittle, they are not curved or
heavy-jointed as in true rickets —suggest
mineral deficiency.
H. A. Veron, a N.S.W. vet. who experi-
mented on a 25,000-acre property, found
that lambs from ewes in their first year,
though smaller-boned than normal, did
not develop the disease; but in the
second year there was a 50 p.c. ataxia
rate and in the third 100 p.c. However,
if the ewes were taken on to different
country for a few months after the first
drop, their second drop was normal. A
batch of 1200 ewes were given a mineral
supplement during gestation and for three
months after the lambs were born. In a
70 p.c. drop there were no ataxia cases.
Six months after lambing, 300 ewes
were drafted off and joined in July, but
given no mineral supplement. They
lambed in November, and a number of
their offspring had ataxia.
The draft was then sent back to the
main flock, and in January the lot were
mated. They gave 100 p.c. healthy
lambs, the average of which, at four
months old, weighed (dressed) 381 b. An
affected lamb at eight months dressed
181 b. Bone tests gave weight of upper
and lower thigh bones together at 1735
grains. In the healthy four-months-old
lamb joint weight was 2449 grains.
Where the disease appears likely, see
that iron, phosphate and iodine are kept
up in the ration.
True rickets (rachitis) is a different
thing. The patient’s lameness may be
general in all limbs or in one, and it is
usually preceded, while the lamb is a few
weeks old, by digestion trouble, bloat of
the abdomen and diarrhoea. Some lambs
take to dirt-eating.
As the disease develops, bones become
bent inwards or backwards and joints en-
large. They also become porous, and in
post-mortems are found so soft that they
may be cut with a knife.
Here, again, mineral deficiency—lack
of lime and phosphates—is the cause, but,
unlike ataxia, the disease is curable if
taken early enough. A calcium phos-
phate lick goes a long way as a remedy,
and it is worth while to dose more valu-
able youngsters daily with 1 fluid oz. of
Cod-liver oil 2 parts;
Syr. calcii lactophosphatis 1 part.
Any chemist will make up the mixture.
But the better way is prevention—licks
and super, top-dressing in districts which
lend themselves to it.
About Entero-toxaemia.
“Lion”: I cannot entirely agree with
“Corriedale” (B. 1/4/’36). E.-t. is caused
by a specific organism known as B. ovi-
toxicus (Dr. H. W. Bennett’s), which
closely resembles the common soil organ-
ism B. welchii. A microscopic examina-
tion of the small intestine juice can show
a heavy infestation, and e.-t. can be sur-
mised, as such conditions are abnormal.
Living in the ground, 8.0. is picked
up as the sheep graze, and only when
excess protein is being absorbed in the
form of an unbalanced ration does the
bacillus start rapid multiplication. When
such takes place the increased numbers
liberate a powerful death-dealing toxin.
Thus the cause seems definitely an un-
balanced ration, producing conditions
suitable to prolific multiplication of the
e.-t. favoring the bacillus. It is not, as
“Corriedale” states, a matter of lowered
vitality from digestive disorders which
predisposes the sheep to infection, but
solely a matter of avoiding the predis-
posing factors for the rapid increase of
B. ovitoxicus. which doesn’t take place
under normal conditions.
Inoculation we have proved invalu-
able. We were among the first to give
it a field test under supervision from the
Government officers. This gives certain
immunity only for one year.
This year our inoculated lambs are free
of e.-t., but adult ewes untreated, and
depasturing in the same paddocks as these
lambs, have died.
When inoculating, it is well to remem-
ber that certain immunity is not present
in any inoculated animal until the second


|:S\'■s
m
om
Motor Transport
i
.vX-
INTERNATIONAL’S NEWEST UTILITY
A thing of streamlined beauty swift
and strong International's newest all-
purpose Utility offers a solution of your
transport problem. It gives you at once
the satisfying appearance and comfort
of a luxurious modern car, together with
useful carrying capacity for loads that would
spell ruin to a motor car and over-tax the
strength of the ordinary motor-car utility.
This new International was designed from the
wheels up for rugged endurance, yet its
stamina and brute-strength are deftly dis-
guised in the sweeping lines and graceful
DF
curves of the modern luxury car. Before
purchasing a new car think of the con-
venience of this Utility Come for a
trial run note the remarkable riding
qualities due to International double acting
hydraulic shock absorbers-the smooth flow of
power from the famous International engine
—the high class body-
work and trimmings
and then note the
amazing low price of
this beautiful all-purpose
vehicle.
CHASSIS PRICES:
113" wheelbase
£267
CwhVl |
125" wheelbase £275
(Plus taxi
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
INTERNATIONAL
R 1457
day after the second inoculation, and
that losses can and do occur between
those periods.
We don’t remove inoculated sheep
from any rich pasture ; that is the object
of treatment—to keep sucker lambs going
ahead without a break.
Useful aids in balancing rations in
lucerne and similar paddocks are leav-
ing a rough stack open in the paddock,
feeding additional roughage and allow-
ing sheep access to grass country. (When
pasture improving, a carefully balanced
ration should be sown.) Sheep will be
seen drawing off the lucerne to stack or
grass every day, balancing their diet
themselves. This is enough to prevent
an overdose of protein.
E.-t. carcasses should be destroyed as
soon as found by burning or burying in
quicklime. They are future sources of
heavy infection, if left, as the organism
lives in the soil.
I have held p.-ms. on hundreds of car-
casses since e.-t. was discovered, and the
symptoms are so marked that they are
easily recognisable. Briefly, look for:
(1) Straw-colored liquid in heart sac,
which will probably be bloody a few
hours after death. Excess liquid here is
abnormal.
(2) Heavily blood-congested liver, from
which blood oozes on being cut across
anywhere.
(3) Acutely inflamed intestines. The
small ones are full of gas, and devoid
of anything but a little juice. This is
almost a certain sign.
(4) Pulpy or jelly-like kidneys which
can be squeezed through a small slit in
the fat with ease. This is a certain sign.
(5) Rapid putrefaction of carcass,
heavily distended, as in bloat, which has a
sickly-sweet yet offensive odor. Once
smelt, it is easily recognised again.
Where e.-t. is present in the district, it
is best to inoculate regularly each year,
using the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tory’s vaccine. There is nothing better
sold, and nothing cheaper.
Since we have adopted these methods
every year, e.-t. losses have been reduced
from a high figure to under one p.c.,
sometimes nil.
Coastal Dairy Feeding.
“Silky Bag”: On the coast of N.S.W.
dairy stock are largely fed on opportunist
rations. There is a very good summer-
growing season, but a temptation to grow
the more spectacular fodders has not
been overcome. Paspalum and sorghum
or maize belong to this class, which con-
stitute the bulk of dairy feed. Bulk is
their major virtue,
A common farm programme is; From
early October until April ends, the pas-
palum, with an odd touch of clover, is
enough. In December or earlier,
sorghum or maize has been sown;
if the latter, some can be cut as green
feed in late autumn. The balance of the
maize is then made into silage, of which
the chief failing is that it has lost half its
original protein.
Sorghum, however, may be used in-
stead, and a common practice with fine-
stemmed stuff is to let it stand and
become frosted. The sugary but fibrous
stalks are then chaffed direct from the
paddock, any old time during winter.
There are two big disadvantages about
this type of feeding. The first is that,
by using other methods, especially pas-
ture farming, a good deal of the solid,
hard work needed can be avoided.
The second weakness is the quality of
the fodder. It is bulky, lush and fibrous
enough—rich in carbohydrates. Great
quantities can be grown per acre, but the
food value is low. Protein is much
below content par. Often the nutritive
ratio is no more than 12 to 1.
It is a pity to see so much fine soil,
aided by rainfall and warmth, not used
for growing rye grasses, cocksfoot,
white and sub. clovers. These are rich
enough for a complete diet without con-
centrates, and their productivity per acre
has not been excelled in quality, even by
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


fc
Have you tried Abbey Special Polish
yet? Made for a better shine. Price
6d. per tin. Write to-day for onr
Illustrated Catalogue, showing all the
latest models and styles. Post free.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE ST., 224 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
EXTRA COMFORT
. . . . LONGER WEAR
FROM
THIS SMART ABBEY
RIDING BOOT.
D AYS in the saddle can be
very arduous and tiring.
Every comfort is well worth
while.
Whether for work or pleasure,
this medium-weight Abbey
Riding Boot is indeed the horse-
man’s friend. It is made of a
medium-weight calf, with a
strong, flexible sole. Good look-
ing, too. Stocked in Black and
Brown, and in full and half sizes.
Prices: Black, 27/6; Brown, 27/6
W.A. 28.
sOcO
rCPv?'\W
THEY ALL WANT IT
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT
m
W M pi
■? ./ W'
g/n /mtMttier/;
* \ - ' %
r 'W:
! ' - >’ * i
;
mm
:i
■
A
mm
S
m
m
tm
mm
mm
t If
• '*
\ ■ \ 'in
i m
■
1 ■■■'; v »\ mi, %<* •.
The World’s Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company.
Incorporated in 1923, N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS, LTD., has planted 163,000
acres with over 130,000,000 trees, and
built 250 miles of roads.
AMOUNT SUBSCRIBED
Mill sites have been selected and secured and
internal transport system surveyed.
Initial Sulphate Pulp and Paper Making
Plant Secured.
While there is still an opportunity to partici-
pate in the Company’s investment issues of
£3O Investments, ajiply for full particulars to;
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
FOR FORESTRY
INVESTMENTS .. .. ..
£4,000,000
RESERVE FOR MAIN-
TENANCE AND REALI-
SATION (APPROX.)
£1,000,000
(Incorporated in New Zealand)
Head Office for Australia;
KEMBLA BUILDING,
58 MARGARET SX., SYDNEY.
No connection with any
other Forestry Company.
WATCH
YOUR MONEY
GROW
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driver*
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St, Sydney,
3 3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
P.B.
LICK
IS THE BEST
for ALL STOCK. It is manu-
factured on the formula of the
New South Wales Stock Depart-
ment, contains 50 p.c. Sterilized
Bonemeal, and is recommended
by all Veterinary Officers.
P.B.
STERILIZED
BONEMEAL
100% Pure.
Write for Free Pamphlets to —
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
sorghum. Once sown they reduce work,
and there is no need to pad out poor
rations by buying bran.
The Apple-leaf Jassid.
‘K. McK.”: The apple-leaf jassid
first appeared in the apple-orchards of
N.S.W. in 1918, but has now become an
important pest of apples throughout a
wide area.
The adult insect is l-6in. long, slender,
wedge-shaped, tapering from a somewhat
broad head towards the tail. It is
greenish-yellow, with the eyes of con-
spicuous brown. The hindlegs are long
and powerful—it jumps freely.
There are usually three broods in a
year. The first jassids hatch in spring
The apple-leaf jassid (Typhlocyba
australis).
Left to right: Immature and mature
insects.
from eggs deposited in the soft bark
of the young wood in the previous
autumn. The eggs are long and slender,
about l-40in. long. They are laid singly
in slits cut transversely to the length of
the stem, which swells slightly, showing
where the eggs are hidden under the
bark. The small nymph emerges head
foremost from under the bark. The pro-
cess of emergence occupies from 18 to
25 minutes. The nymph crawls to the
young growth at the end of the branch,
and commences to feed by sucking the
sap.
The overwintering eggs hatch from
September to November, but the time
of hatching is largely dependent upon
season. The first nymphs are usually
mature in six weeks, but those which
hatch later become adult in three weeks,
the warmer weather hastening develop-
ment.
The habits of the second brood differ
from those of the first in that the eggs
are deposited in the leaf-stalks, the mid-
ribs and the main veins of the leaves,
the midrib being the more favored situa-
tion. These nymphs emerge from Decem-
to February, and mature in about three
weeks.
The adults of the second brood lay
their eggs in the bark, and, while the
majority of the eggs overwinter to pro-
vide the spring brood, some hatch as a
third brood, but, as a rule, their numbers
are small.
The jassids, by sucking the sap from
the leaf, cause it to become mottled, and
as the number of insects increases the
leaf becomes yellow and often falls.
Also, insects may cluster on the fruit,
which becomes covered with brown
excrement, difficult to remove.
The jassid has been recorded only as
a pest of apples, but it may infest both
pear and prune trees.
Since the eggs are laid within the bark,
and as the adults fly readily when dis-
turbed, they are practically immune from
the action of sprays, so that war must
be declared on the soft-bodied nymphs,
for which a spray of 1 pint nicotine sul-
phate, l|lb. of hard soap and 75 gallons
of water is satisfactory. Two applica-
tions of this spray should be made ; the
first just before the nymphs have reached
the winged stage, with a second about
three weeks after the first in order to
destroy those insects which have hatched
since the first spraying.
Where it is found convenient, these
two sprayings may be combined with the
calyx spray and the first cover spray
for codling moth; but, where these
sprays are combined, the soap should be
omitted from the spray mixture. Spray-
ing should be thoroughly carried out in
order that all parts of the foliage and
fruit are completely wetted
Hints for the Farm.
“Stump Jump”: Warmed Stockholm
tar is the best waterproofing and pre-
servative for ordinary bag cow rugs. It
should be thinned a little with turpentine.
“Carrick”: To check mildew on tents
and tarpaulins, slack a bushel of lime in
water, draw otf the clear water and add
enough unlimed water to make 60 gal-
lons. Add bluestone and soak the
canvas thoroughly in the mixture. Dry
and hang up with wire out of the way
of rats and mice. Never oil canvas. It
makes it waterproof but also tender.
Beeswax flaked and ironed into it with a
flat iron is effective and does no damage.
“Jachris”; If sinking posts in dry
ground, go ahead with a barrel of water,
and where holes are to be dug next day
drive the crowbar in and fill the holes
with water. Fill up again on the way
back. Next day’s digging will be much
easier.
“Mari-ja”: An old iron plough wheel
—or something like it—with a long bolt
for axle fitted through a flat iron bar on
the outer edge of a gate that has begun
to sag will straighten it up and let it
open much more freely.
“Colon”: Place a steel object to be
tempered on a piece of iron, heated to
a dull-red, and watch the colors travelling
up the steel. A straw color for hard
temper, through the shades of brown to
purple for medium temper, as for crow-
bars, mattocks, etc., to blue and greenish-
blue for soft temper. Quench in water
to which a small lump of sal ammoniac
has been added. To temper drills, heat
to a cherry-red and plunge into a piece
of resin.
“Whalebone”: When robbing bee-
hives give pine-needles or mountain-oak
leaves a trial in the smoker. These
smoulder better, give off more smoke and
last just as long as hessian.
“Gamma”: Too much can’t be said
for the persistent use of the scarifier
during the summer months. Last year
1 tried out the process of scarifying every
third day, and after every rainstorm.
While the season was dry, two patches
of stirred-up maize kept pretty green
until the rain came again ; but the un-
scarified turned brown. Scarifying also
keeps weeds in check, and the hoe need
never be used if the rows are scarified,
even before the plants are up, at the
first signs of weeds.
“Vic”: Don’t hurry sheep to the truck-
ing yards. If they must be driven, take
them a few miles slowly each day. And
try to arrive at the yards early in the
morning, with an extra short stage on
which they are grazed along to their
destination. Overheating and bruising—
even a fist used gently will mark a fat
lamb —cost Australian exporters thou-
sands of pounds a year.
“Gamma”; “Flores” (B. 12/2/’36) is
correct about the watsonias being a
menace to pastoralists. There is a piece
of Government land in S. Victoria
which a few years ago was covered with
blackberries, so they tried to eliminate
them by ploughing. Now it is covered
with watsonias, and is one red mass sft.
or 6ft. high, and almost covering the
undergrowth of blackberries.
“Coolabah”: A walk down Queen-
street, Auckland, recently in search of
oranges left me without quenching my
thirst on one of those balls of sunshine.
True, there were plenty of oranges, but
at a price that was for well-padded
pockets and of a quality that goes into
the tip in N.S.W. All the fruit was
wrapped in Californian tissues and had
travelled 5000-odd miles. Only 1100
miles away Australian citrus growers are
dumping superior fruit for lack of mar-
ket. But there are, of course, childish
embargoes.
“Rom Ney”: J. N. Coleman, assistant
director of the sheep and wool branch
of N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, is
on his way to England. He hopes to
study British lamb-raising methods and
cast an appraising < eye on Smithfield’s
likes and dislikes, for the ultimate good
of this State’s lamb-raisers. He carries
several commissions for the purchase of
British-breed rams, mostly for State ex-
periment farms. A man who knows his
jumbuck, Coleman has visited Maori-
land’s lamb centres, an indirect result of
which was the importation of numerous
Southdowns from the Shivery Isles to
N.S.W. He is well known as a lecturer.
Who had the best wheat crop in Aus-
tralia last season? The distinction is
claimed for E. M. Keith, of Wychitella
(Vic.): 130 acres (75 of Ghurka and 55
of Free Gallipoli), averaging 51 bushels.


Portable
Typewriter
CORONA
Portable
Typewriter
The CORONA THREE
is the ideal portable.
It is COMPLETE with
Standard features. With
its folding design it is
most COMPACT, but
constructed for hard
usage. Above all, in
its letter arrangemenl
and operation it is
SIMPLE.
Over one million satis-
fied users our guaran-
tee.
THREE
FD
The CORONA THREE
offers you efficiency and
thorough reliability, phis
these Standard fea-
tures : Automatic
Ribbon Reverse, Two-
color Ribbon, Back
Spacer, Right- and Left-
hand Shifts, Single- and
Double - line Spacing,
100% Visibility.
Price (including Carry-
ing Case), £l2/10/-
THE FIRST PORTABLE TYPEWRITER MADE.
If A /'l\ All/' AI I C I Tl\ “Stanton House.” 181 Pitt St Sydney
M AIjIiIIUIiA LLa Li 111 “Penfold House,” Cr. Queen and Lit. Collins Sts., Melbourne
ITI/iVI/VUVni/IiVI MJ IV. .. widows » Fund Buildings,” 40 Grenfell St., Adelaide
Macdougalls (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., 299 Queen St., Brisbane. H. Hardman, 35 Barrack St.. Perth
SMOKE-OH!
Give a man an inch and he’ll try to
park his car in it,
*l*
“ ‘The modern novelist probes,’ states a
critic.”
And more often bores!
4" 4* 4^
“It was when he drank that her husband
became violent. He could not stand liquor.
Once he had bitten her.” — "Sun.”
Took a glass of stout and bit her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘You might not believe it, but some
comedians travel thousands of miles in order
to bring back fresh jokes to entertain their
audiences,’ says a theatrical writer.”
“Far-fetched and dear-bought!”
“ ‘Australia is tilting over to the south,’
says a scientist.”
It’s a change, anyway. A little while
ago some people reckoned it was going
west.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When a friend mentions the Glaciariurn
to you it is not at all funny to ask how
many it will seat.
4* 4* -h 4*
The Glory of Showmanship.
Perhaps some day owing to a secret
hunger to wear a title I shall join the
ranks of the sideshowmen.
I may have to learn to train seals to
do it, but it seems worth while. If you
have trained seals you are entitled to
wear a uniform somewhat resembling
that of an Admiral of the Fleet
(mounted division) with the rank of cap-
tain.
If, on the other hand, you act as aide-
de-camp to a tattooed lady your uni-
form is that of the Albanian Dismounted
Cavalry. The rank is still captain.
By taking charge of a team of Ameri-
can Wild West cowboys, obviously from
the Bronx, you are entitled to wear the
uniform of the Swiss Navy, with the
rank of colonel.
If, however, you are in command of
a troupe of performing fleas, you join
the profession of learning. Your title is
professor, and the uniform is that of a
bandmaster of the Life Guards.
The lust is in my heart to run a com-
bined sideshow outfit and call myself
Professor Captain Aitchem, showing the
medals of the most important orders of
Timbuctoo, Jericho, Calithumpia and
other places too remote to challenge my
rights to wear them.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4-
Heads Are Right.
Talking of phrenology reminds me
that I specialised in it years ago.
I was one of the Commonwealth’s first
recognised melon-readers. And I could
read them. No skipping a few chapters.
I used to do it properly. Mostly I pinned
my faith to the shape of the head (and
some of the heads I examined you could
pin anything to without inconveniencing
the owner). For instance, if a head was
one of those whose owner is referred to
by his friends as “Egghead” I would ad-
vise him to start a poultry farm. Bullet-
headed individuals I gave a choice be-
tween professional soldier, gangster or
work in the small-arms factory ; those
with receding foreheads would obviously
be politicians.
I got so expert after a while that as
soon as a man came in the door, even
with his hat on, I could tell at a glance
the number of convolutions in his grey
matter, the engine number of his car and
whether he lied about the cold showers
he took right through the winter.
It was pure coincidence that my hur-
ried departure from Melbourne followed
my examination of a client who had the
weirdest-shaped head I ever saw. 1 was
at once puzzled and delighted. After a
lengthy examination I told him he ought
to be a big-game hunter, basing my
opinion on his queer actions —only queer
people ever hunt big game. He got nasty,
and next day came gunning for me. I
found out later he used to be chiropodist
for the elephants in a circus, and one of
them trod on his noddle.
Where 1 made my biggest mistake,
though, was in combining the psycho-
analytical with fortune-telling. It worked
for a while, but I had to move about too
quickly. Once I didn’t move quickly
enough. A man came in and I read his
bumps. I was feeling particularly gener-
ous, and told him he’d shortly make his
fortune. My exact words, I think, were
that he’d “be on Easy Street.”
He came back in a terrible rage a few
days later and informed me he’d put his
whole wad on “Easy Street,” which had
run like a hairy goat. Then he walloped
me with what coroners loosely term a
“What about a spot before y'r go, Puddin'?"
“No, Pongo—I never touch the booze when I'm drivin.'”
“blunt instrument,” and said savagely;
“Now read that bump, you !”
I gave the game up after that, and
took on s.p. bookying. I’ve never looked
back.
Quayeau.
4* 4" 4* 4*
Simple Explanation.
“M. Cheron was furious on hearing that
Lord (then Mr.) Snowden had described his
statement as ridiculous, and sent his seconds
to arrange a duel. When it was explained
to him that the word French ridicule
he was mollified.” — "Sun.”
Lord Trevor Chinmissing, his black
temper inflamed by the two sarsaparillas
and the Vichy water he had so recklessly
imbibed, glared savagely as the croupier
raked in the last of the pile that had been
in front of him.
In a last desperate effort to retrieve
the family fortunes, he had come to
Monte Carlo to stake all on the hazards
of the gaming tables, and now, after a
week’s play, he had lost his fourteen and
sixpence. Haggard and drawn with the
tremendous mental strain he had been
under, he despairingly pushed his chair
back.
Ruined!
As he stepped from the table his heavy
riding-boot (he had ridden straight from
riding to hounds in the Cat Hunt at
Cheshire) came down heavily on the light
pumps of Count Marcelle Chemin de
Fer, who was standing behind him.
The polite Frenchman bowed deeply.
"Mille pardons, mon cher ami!”
But Lord Trevor Chinmissing was in
no mood to be conciliatory.
“That’s right, you clumsy idiot!” he
snarled.
Count Chemin de Fer stiffened. Then
lightly, and with great dignity, he swept
his glove across Lord Trevor’s face.
“You shall my zeconds see demain
matin, ne c’est pas ? ”
But Lord Trevor, whose knowledge of
duelling was limited to the belief that
a foil had something to do with a theatri-
cal character, was a humane man, deter-
mined to have no blood on his hands.
He sobered up and explained, in the best
French he could muster, that clumsy was
only another name for maladroit, and
that idiot merely meant, in French, idiot
or imbecile.
As the full explanation dawned on the
count he gave a charming smile, stepped
forward, kissed Lord Trevor on each
cheek and, taking a pace backward,
bowed.
“Ah!” he said happily. “Monsieur
relieves me. At fairst I —whad you call
—mizdook your language an’ thought
you meant idiot or imbecile. J’excuse
profondement. An’ now, will monsieur
join me in a cognac?”
S. W. K.
Touring Without Tears;
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XIII. — Maligning the Mallee.
The Mallee district is enjoyed by flies,
rabbits, crows, horses-and-cows, children
and farmers —in that order. The farmers’
wives also live there.
A typical Mallee farm consists of “un-
dulating country, lightly timbered ; plenty
building stone.” At least, that’s how it
is described in “Farms for Sale” columns.
In practice this means about a thousand
acres of sandhills, several thousand tons
of mallee stumps and a similar quantity
of loose stones.
The sandhills are divided into pad-
docks, and the stumps and stones are
distributed fairly evenly throughout. The
stumps and stones are more or less
stationary, but the sandhills shift from
paddock to paddock and from farm to
farm.
Mallee farmers long ago gave up try-
ing to establish a" claim to any particu-
lar slice of soil. It is now recognised
that any farmer has a right to sow seed
in any soil that is (at the moment) inside
his fences, and in the same way he may
reap any crop that is (at the moment of
ripening) within his boundaries.
It’s rather a gamble. One week you
may see a fine crop of waving corn down
in your bottom paddock, next -to
O’Shaughnessy’s rust - ruined, smut-
smitten crop.
Comes Tuesday night, and a howling
gale. On Wednesday you harness up the
team and go forth to garner the golden
grain, only to find there’s nothing left
but stumps and stones, while on the other
side of the fence you can see Mick
O’Shaughnessy’s harvester cutting broad
swaths through the crop you were
reckoning on to lift the mortgage. Talk
about reaping the whirlwind!
Of course, sometimes things even up
and you get Macgregor’s crop from the
other side (unless Mac padlocks it
down), or you might lose only half your
crop and get half somebody else’s to
make up for it. This is all to the good,
as by the involuntary mixture you have
gained an entirely new variety. There
are more new varieties formed in the
Mallee during a good night’s sandstorm
than the Research Bureaux evolve in a
lifetime.
Take O’Shaughnessy’s case, mentioned
above. His crop ruined by rust, your
crop blown into his paddock and reaped
by him. Naturally, he advertises far and
wide that he has evolved a rust-resisting
variety.
Similarly are discovered varieties that
are smut-resisting, drought-resisting, fire-
resisting, flood-resisting, etc.
In fact, the only type they can’t dis-
cover is the one they need most of all —
a wind-resisting variety. But it’ll come!
Jasby.
4* *i* 4*
“Metcalfe and Dickinson should both reach
some of the Olympic prizes.”— “Referee.”
It’s only a hop, step and a jump for
both of them.
4* 4* 4 1
A Skating Hint.
When you feel yourself falling, don’t
stop to count ten, or ponder over what
the instructor told you, or to select a
soft spot to fall on, but just clutch some-
one.
Some people make the mistake of look-
ing for a friend to clutch. This is fool-
ish, as well as futile. On floor or ice the
beginner has no friends. Every man’s
hand is against him.
Therefore, don’t be a respecter of per-
sons. Grab anyone, anywhere. And
hang on. In saving themselves they may
be able to save you. If not, you’ll all
go down together.
In that event pick yourself up and
accept their apologies with as good a
grace as possible.
B.
The Softening Influence.
“A concrete mind, thoroughly mixed and
completely set, is a calamity.”
—Canon Hammond.
There was a season when my mind
Was of this “tough-as-concrete” kind;
And concrete reinforced by length
On length of steel ( e.g .) for strength.
The sifted sand of my self-will,
I mixed, with doggedness and skill,
With Prejudice’s fine cement
Until my faith you couldn’t dent
Or shake with plugs of dynamite.
For point or principle I’d fight
Like agitated zealot if
I was opposed. Dogmatic, stiff,
Td guard my tenets with my life —
And then, alas! I met my wife.
P.O.M.C.
Behind the Times.
“I want two yards of ribbon,” said
the dear old lady who had wandered by
accident into Exquizzit Ladyes’ Wear.
“Certainly, moddom,” replied the
haughty demoiselle with the carmine
fingernails. “What color? Peach?
Lemon? Rose?”
The customer looked blank.
“Apple? Salmon? Ivory?” continued
the exquisite one. “Or perhaps cham-
pagne or burgundy? No? Then what
about flesh or sky or electric?”
Still no sign of assent from the old
lady.
“Just a moment, Miss Smythe,” inter-
rupted a female of higher rank ; “obvi-
ously moddom wants saffron or beige,
or perhaps flame or eau-de-Nil.”
No answering gleam appeared in the
old lady’s eyes, so the manageress took
up the tale.
“Can I help moddam. Magnolia or
Patou? No? Then why not copper or
wheatgold? I have it! The very thing!
Wedgwood !”
The first demoiselle returned to the
fray with suggestions of plumberry, saxe,
tomato, almond and tiger-lily, and the
other one threw in a tentative “Lido?”
Then the old lady managed to stammer
out:
“Well, I really wanted a yard of red
and a yard of blue.”
All three bridled as only the shop-
ladies of the Exquizzit can bridle.
It was the manageress who spoke.
“I’m afraid you’ve made a mistake,”
she said coldly. “We don’t stock those
colors. You’d better try a chain store.”
BECKS.


Fine Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:—
THE BRIDLE TRACK
BY J.J. HARDIE.
Chapter XXII. —( Continued ).
HE opened the door and followed her in silence,
thinking how strangely subdued she was. She
paused at the end of the hall and looked steadily
at him; there was the faintest tremor in her quiet
tones.
“Bill, I want you to do something for me! I hate
to ask you, but the doctor will tell you.”
She ushered him into a large, dim room. “This
is Mr. Muir; Dr. Anderson. I’ll leave you for a few
minutes, if you’ll excuse me.”
The doctor and Bill took mutual stock of one
another. Bill saw the tired, lined face of a man of
about fifty, the eyes bloodshot, with heavy pouches
underneath, and the grey suit sagging on. him as though
it had been made for a bigger man.
The doctor’s eyes travelled rapidly over the man
before him. The clear, deeply-tanned skin, the easy
athletic poise and the firm handgrip told their own
tale. The eyes were reserved but clear, and met
him steadily, and his professional eye lingered on the
injured side of Bill’s face.
“How did that happen?” he asked.
“Horse kicked me,” Bill replied laconically.
“Before the war?”
Bill nodded.
“Thought so!” ■ The doctor desisted from his
scrutiny and glanced keenly at him.
“Ever use a hypodermic needle?”
“I’ve inoculated a few thou-
sand cattle.”
“Never used it on a human
being?”
Bill shook his head, vaguely
wondering why there should be any
difference between sticking a needle
into a human being or into a bul-
lock. A man would be easier to
handle —no need to yard him and
run him into a crush.
The doctor produced a small
plated box. “I’ll show you how to
do it.” He fitted the syringe to-
gether and bared his forearm for
Bill to experiment on.
“That’ll do! You’ll manage
it.” He. handed over a thin brown
lube. “That’s the morphine—one
tablet at a time.”
Bill looked up with a slightly
bewildered expression. “I haven’t
quite got the idea yet. Whom do
you expect me to use this on?”
“Didn’t Miss Atherton ex-
plain? Oh, I’m sorry! It’s her
father. The pain’s growing too
severe, and he’ll need this to get
any rest. Miss Atherton will nurse
him—l’m afraid he’s 100 weak to
leave his bed again unless he’s lifted
bodily. But she can’t stand the
idea of giving him the needle. Lots
of people are like that where their
own family are concerned. Will
you take it on?”
Bill frowned. “But I can’t stay
here for long! Who’s going to do
it then?”
“I’m trying my hardest to get
a nurse, but so far I’ve had no luck.
This damned ’flu has filled all the
hospitals, and there doesn’t seem
to be a nurse available anywhere,
but I’m still trying.”
“When will you be out again,
doctor?”
The grey head shook gloomily.
“God only knows! I’m going night
and day in there. Ring me up if
there’s anything you want to know.
I’ve got to get back, so good-bye—
and good luck!”
He passed through the doorway, leaving Bill
staring at the shining instrument and the deadly little
tube, seeing in them further links in the chain that
bound him against his will, curtailed his freedom and
the saving instinct to get out while the going was good.
Chapter XXIII.
THE first sleepy note of a magpie brought Bill out
of bed before the dawn, and, as he dressed in
quiet haste, the rest of the magpie clan in the
dark pine-trees joined in the morning hymn in ones
and twos, their limpid-clear, rounded notes tumbling
over one another in a cascade of lavish melody. A
kookaburra chuckled sardonically at the sight of a
man striding up the horse-paddock in the misty grey-
blue light with a whip and a bridle slung over one
shoulder. He was back at the yard with half a dozen
horses by the time the sun had heaved himself over
the hilly skyline, and his expression as he glanced
over the station hacks was anything but flattering
to them.
As he passed through the kitchen the woman
cook, fat and frowsy, answered his “Good morning”
perfunctorily with a faintly hostile look, as though
she resented the fact that anyone should usurp the
cook’s prerogative of being up first. In the hall he
almost collided with Elaine wrapped in a kimono, her
auburn hair in glorious disarray. She threw him a
sleepy smile.
“I’m not used to visitors who get up before the
magpies. Go in and have a yarn with daddy till I
get dressed.”
The old man smiled wanly as Bill entered the
room and perched cautiously on the edge of the bed.
“Had a good night?”
“Quite good till the effect of the morphine wore
off. You were up very early. Didn’t you sleep well?”
“Very well, thanks. I feel like the Digger who
reckoned he’d hire a bugler to play reveille every
morning just for the pleasure of telling him to go
to hell and going to sleep again. When you’ve been
on the road watching cattle every night you get into
the habit of waking regularly when you’re due to go
on watch. It’s great to know you don’t have to roll
out in the cold and ride round the mob for a couple
of hours in the dark.”
The sunken eyes warmed as they watched him.
“Did I hear you getting the horses in?”
“Habit again, I’m afraid. I hope I’m not doing
someone out of a job'”
“Tom won’t mind. He would only be starting
out nOWj j n any case . By the bye, we’ll have to get
yo u something to ride. Your own horses must have
a rest.”
Bill hesitated. He certainly wanted his paft* to
have a spell, but he could not foresee much pleasure
in riding anything else in the yard. Elaine’s brown
mare was all right, but, still, it belonged to her.
Atherton seemed to divine his thoughts. “I have
one or two quite good horses in another paddock,
although some of them haven’t been ridden for a
long time. It’s so hard nowadays to get men who
will get on a horse unless they think he’s perfectly
quiet.”
“I know.” Bill studied the patient thoughtfully.
He was beginning to realise the depth of suffering
that the man had striven to conceal, and his admira-
tion went out to the spirit behind the wasted frame.
“You should have had another needle last night,” he
told him. “Do you mind if I bring my bed along
the verandah near your door?”
“You mustn’t worry about me ; and you’re cer-
tainly not going to lose your sleep on my account.”
“I won’t,” Bill assured him. “I’ll come in and
have a look at you when it’s time to go on watch.
I say”—he pondered a moment, groping for the words
—“just exactly what is the trouble? Don’t tell me if
you’d rather not,”
The face on the pillow wore a thin smile. He
glanced cautiously toward the door of Elaine’s room,
then he whispered one word.
Bill’s face grew grave. “But can’t the doctors
do anything?”
“Too late!” the low voice answered. “I went
down to Sydney not very long ago and consulted a
specialist. He decided to operate immediately.” He
paused, with another significant glance at the door.
“They did—but it was too late, so I came home.”
“You mean?”
The head on the pillow nodded
quietly. “They gave me a month —
perhaps two.”
Bill walked slowly to the ver-
andah doorway and looked out
through eyes that did not see the
neglected garden or the winding
line of the creek timber, but seemed
to focus on something far beyond
in the distant, invisible land of the
plains. Then he moved back to his
seat near the foot of the bed, and
his steady eyes carried a message
of assurance to the man lying there.
“I want you to let me know
whenever I can help you.”
The head nodded dumbly, and
Bill went on to unfold an idea that
had occurred to him.
“Do you mind if I send for
one of my men? I’d like to have
young Percy handy—he’s a fine
horseman, a half-caste, but miles
ahead of a lot of white men.”
Atherton hesitated. “I would
be very glad, but”
“It’s only to help me out. As
soon as this ’flu passes there will
be plenty of men looking for jobs,
then we can move on.”
He was more than pleased
when Elaine entered the room,
bright and cheerful, and created a
welcome diversion to a conversa-
tion that was becoming rather in-
volved. „
The girl fode out with him
after breakfast to muster the horses
out of a two-thousand-acre pad-
dock that ran up into the flat-
topped hills. They had traversed
more than half of it when Bill drew
rein and pointed silently ahead. On
the crest of a hill a horse stood
silhouetted against the sky, head
held fearlessly aloft, mane and tail
floating out in the light breeze. It
lingered for a space of seconds, the
epitome of glorious, untrammelled
freedom, beauty in every splendid
line —then suddenly it was gone.
Bill jambed his hat down on
his head as Coronet shot forward
like a rocket, with the girl galloping
hard in the rear in a vain endeavor to catch up. Bill
eased his horse on the bouldered slope, steering a
diagonal course through the timber that would bring
him out on the flank of the mob. The picture of
the horse on the hilltop had fired him, stirred his
blood to a fierce, joyful anticipation. It was evident
that Coronet realised equally what was afoot, and
the rider was forced to steady him all the way up
the steep slope.
The summit rose in an abrupt rocky wall, and
in the momentary pause Bill remembered the girl.
He walked his horse stealthily along under the barrier,
searching for a gap till Elaine burst through the trees,
flushed with excitement, her eyes sparkling, and the
brown mare blowing and already edging the saddle-
cloth with a creamy lather.
THE PAPUAN
MONTE HOLCROFT
Monte Holcroft, author of “The
Papuan,” which will begin
serial publication in “The
Bulletin” shortly, is 33 years
old and was born at Rangiora,
near Christchurch (N.Z.).
Educated at the Christchurch
Boys’ High School, he was out
in the world at 16, working on
farms and in threshing mills.
Before he was out of his teens
he crossed the Tasman and
spent a period as a dockyard
clerk in Sydney. He next leased
140 acres of poor land near
Nowra (N.S.W.) and man-
aged to last six months—
mainly on a diet of rabbits.
Then followed a retreat to
Sydney and one job after an-
other timberyard worker,
goods porter and estate-agent’s
clerk among them. About this
time he began to write. The
now defunct “Australia,” a
magazine run by Fred Davison,
father of Frank Dalby Davison,
bought his first short story, and “The Bulletin” ai.* other papers gave him
cheques for later efforts. Having found his wings as a writer he returned
to New Zealand as sub-editor of the “Weekly Press.” When the “Weekly
Press” snuffed out he went abroad. He saw a good deal of England, France and
North Africa—he had a taste of the desert in Southern Tunisia —and sold fiction
to various English magazines. Returning to New Zealand, he has since lived on
the proceeds of authorship. “The Papuan” is his fourth novel—the other three,
which have enjoyed good sales, being “Beyond the Breakers,” “The Flameless
Fire” and “Brazilian Daughter.”


He cautioned her to silence, and the horses
scrambled up a narrow break in the rocks and gained
the fringe of wind-blown timber of the summit. The
fiat top of the hill was covered with bushes and a
few scattered trees. A quarter of a mile away an iron-
grey head and shoulders appeared suddenly above the
bashes in a tense, listening attitude, then, apparently
satisfied, the horse went on feeding.
“We’ll get as close to them as we can,” Bill told
her in a low voice. “I’ll get round and turn them
down to the flat. You keep them from breaking out
behind me —send ’em along as hard as you can. We’ll
tie a knot in them down below.”
Bill rode slightly ahead, his horse, questing eagerly
with pricked ears and on its toes with the tension that
flowed to it from the rider. Elaine, impatiently urging
her slower-walking horse along in the rear,' just caught
a glimpse of a horse’s head lifting suspiciously from
the scrub, heard the shrill snort of warning as it
disappeared, and the sudden clatter of many hooves.
She saw Bill on Coronet, lengths ahead, going through
the timber like a streak, racing out to head the horses
careering across the plateau with manes and tails
streaming in the wind.
A stockwhip banged somewhere ahead. She
dashed through some scattered timber, to find herself
on the sheer brink of the hill, and, with a frantic
effort, swerved the mare on the crumbling edge and
galloped along it till she hit a sharp declivity scored
with the hoofmarks of the mob. Away down the
rocky hillside she saw them streaming, with a rider
out on the flank. She did not pause to think of the
danger ; her blood was up, and if Bill could gallop
down there she was going to follow. The mare needed
no urging, and, with teeth set and the wind whipping
her hair straight back from her head and the tears
from the corners of her eyes, she plunged headlong
down the rough slope.
The hill was flattening out, the boulders were
getting fewer and the trees were bigger and statelier.
The brown mare floundered as a rabbit burrow gave
way under her, but the girl pulled her
to her feet and they sped on.
The timber thinned and the mob
lay ahead of her, hooves drumming in
the light screen of dust. She saw the bay
horse race up and challenge the brown
mare leading the mob They swerved,
with the rider still*holding the lead, yel-
ling at them, his whip swinging. They
stopped, bunched together, and just then
Elaine arrived.
Coronet was streaming with sweat,
and the gleam of battle was in his
rider’s eye. As she rode up he shouted:
“You go ahead! Ride on to the
gate and steady the lead. Keep going
till we hit the yard.”
Elaine cantered off, looking round
to watch Bill starting the mob in her
wake. They came on, the brown leader
drawing level, challenging her position,
till she drove it back. A faint track led
from the gale across that paddock and the
next, till the station buildings and the
yard hove in sight and she sensed the
mob checking distrustfully behind her.
She reined her mare and looked round.
Bill’s whip swung menacingly, urging the
suspicious horses ; then he looked up and
yelled “Go on! Don’t stop!” and she
moved ahead through the high gateway
of the yard, with the mob trampling and
jostling at her heels.
Bill stood at the gate with an en-
couraging smile for her as she rode her
dripping horse outside. Now that the
excitement of the chase was over re-
action flooded over her in a wave of
sheer exhaustion. She still felt elated at
the memory of that wild ride down the hill-
side—a thing she would never have tackled in
the maddest moment of a harum-scarum youth, and
when she joined Bill looking over the circling horses
in the yard, although her knees were weak and shaky,
the feeling of triumph carried her on.
“What do you think of them?” she demanded.
“They’re good! How many are broken in?”
She pointed out six, including the iron-grey mare,
then turned to find the man’s eyes focused on the
brown mare, the leader that had first shown herself
so dramatically on the hilltop.
“How old is the brown mare?” he asked, his
eyes following every movement of the animal.
“She must be five years old.”
He turned a speculative eye. “Do you think
your father would sell her?”
Elaine shook her head smilingly. “I don’t think
he would. She happens to belong to me.”
Bill shrugged his shoulders and turned away again
toward the horses. The girl watched him with an
enigmatic smile. “Do you think Percy would break
her in for me?”
He shook his head without turning. “I don’t
think so!”
“Why not?”
His head came round slowly till he looked at her
from under the drooping lid, “Because I want to
handle her myself.”
Chapter XXIV,
BILL spent two days riding the boundary of
Camelot, carefully examining every gateway and
gully, every strainer and join in the wires with-
out discovering a single clue to the avenue by which
the stolen sheep had been removed. The entire prop-
erty was enclosed by a rabbit-netting fence topped
with barbed wire, all in a good state of repair, and
the situation had him frankly puzzled.
He did not disclose his real mission to Sam
Haynes, the boundary-rider at Shanty Creek. Sam
had charge of the hilly paddocks at the back of Came-
lot, where most of the sheep had been lost; he was
a garrulous individual, ready to discuss any subject
under the sun, but as he was not only willing but
anxious to do all the talking Bill let him babble on,
and remained to all intents and purposes the new
horsebreaker. However, Sam had to furnish Elaine
with a strict tally of the sheep in each paddock under
his care, and old Tom found himself busier than he
had been for a long time looking after the sheep in
the lower paddocks.
Camelot was only lightly stocked, and, as a result
of his inquiries regarding the sheep losses, the approxi-
mate dates when the losses had been discovered, and
tbe paddocks that had chiefly suffered, Bill felt in-
c h ne d to advise the removal of all the stock to the
lower paddocks, although the feed was shorter there.
u nwpvpr ; n the end he decided to leave thinas
as th »
]ittle town in t he station car; with Elaine at the wheel.
There were several cars and sulkies along the main
street: in fact, compared with Bill’s last sight of the
town - t was seedl i n g w ith Hf e After making some
saddlery purchases at the store, he walked down to
the police station and spent a profitable half-hour with
tbe counted constable
c . ...
vu?? ol H nB ,? ack ’ 'v J 0 8,!
lth the d °ctor. He looked d
ha " ev f ;bls naturally brusque manner was accen-
soand ? d llke demands and his terse sentences snapped
out ltn an au ocra rm g-
“How’s Mr. Atherton getting on? H m-m-m.
Ob, well, let him have it oftener, but not Jess than
two hours between each. And for God’s sake don’t
ask when I’ll be out! The hospital’s full to over-
flowing. Half the staff have got ’flu. More than
half the town is down with it. I can’t get a nurse
anywhere for love or money, and I’ve had a total
of four hours’ sleep in the last two days. Good-
On the crest of a hill a horse stood silhouetted against the sky.
bye, and if any of your kids ever want to join the
medical profession strangle them quietly while they’re
young!” • ■’
A tall, slim figure detached itself from a verandah
post as . Bill passed the pub, and followed him un-
obtrusively round the corner.
“Hullo, Percy! Got your gear all ready? Well,
listen ... a grey car will back down this lane soon,
Have everything ready to hop in behind as quietly
as you can. I don’t want anyone in this town to see
you with us.”
Bill and Percy rode out from the homestead early
next morning, and Elaine gained the verandah just in
time to see the end of a buckjumping exhibition, with
Percy sitting easily on the pitching grey mare, laugh-
ing cheerfully at her efforts to get rid of him. They
made for the eastern end of the run, where the boun-
d ary fence spanned deep rocky gullies and climbed
the steep, broken slopes of hills ; rough scrubby coun-
asssssr
JK: fence Closely S ‘
one of them would circle wide Neither spoke much,
although Percy contributed the greater part of the
conversation, while his dark-brown eyes were always
nn the alert
on + , .
Bills interest was beginning to flag under the
apparent the quest when Percy halted
the grey well out from the fence and sat very still,
T hifl § Tfinl T f hey had desce f nded tbe
cree k crossed the boundary at
CIC %™ X. V
h - JL flickering from the W f Cy ’
minu c inspection the auarte nebbles That littemd
H 011 01 , fl uartz Pebbles that littered
the ground. He swung to the ground, picked up some-
thing, then mounted aaain and rode close in tho fenm
scrutinising the ground on the other side and studying
the winding course of the creek " " g
Then he beckoned to Bill; the two rode back to
the spot where he had first halted, and Percy handed
over the object he had picked up—a short length of
cheap rope. He pointed to various trees,
“There’s been a rope break or a wing tied along
here . . . same along that side . . . coming in narrow
towards the fence. See the sheep tracks—stones turned
over everywhere with the underside up!”
Bill could discern only an occasional tree with
the roughness worn off the bark in an encircling ring,
but the sheep tracks were plain enough. He followed
them to where they ended abruptly, some distance
out from the fence. No wonder he had missed them
on his first inspection! But having got the sheep so
f ar > how had they got them away? The fence was
uncut—undisturbed in any way. Then the solution
dawned on him, and he swung on the smiling Percy,
who had already reconstructed the entire business in
his mind.
“Well, I’ll be damned! The tarpaulin trick!”
They clambered over the fence, Percy walking
ahead pointing to a line of pebbles pressed firmly
into the ground, then to a short, sharp-edged mark,
_Long, wide planks, I think!
He stuck a twig into the ground, then some dis-
| aace ahead put in another and measured the space
between with his stockwhip. He measured a similar
distance ahead from the second twig and pointed to
another sharp line on the ground beside the embedded
Pebbles with a glint of triumph in his eye.
“ Big lorry ’ 1 think - Backed him a B a inst this side
of ,£ nce /’
\ a ramp with tarpaulins and ropes
from tfae tailboard to the yard on our side picked
a dark night and shone lamps on the ramp! He
picked a nice sheltered spot too where his lights would
ne ver be seen. Then put planks under his tyres—that
must have been a slow job, I wonder how far he
took the sheep—must have landed them before day-
light!”
“Pity we haven’t done any droving about this
country,” Percy remarked regretfully. “We’d know
all the brands and earmarks—and all the crooks!”
“It might have been a butcher, but I don’t know,
This fellow must have known the paddock and the
sheep—he always took young ewes—and he must
have had good, quiet dogs. I think Mac’s about
right,”, he added significantly.
They followed the tracks round the base of the
hill. In places the driver of the truck had slipped off
Ihe planks or had got careless, and the faint pattern
°f his tyres still showed on the dry ground. Then
Ihey joined a well-beaten track through the timber
where the tyre marks were almost obliterated by the
passage of cais and carts and sheep winding along the
tlusty, grey depressions,
,; n A j , un l to the homestead they rode on
to Mac Andrews selection and interviewed the con-
valescent Mac over an intervening harrier of garden,
Bessie appeared first and greeted Bill warmly. He
had ? ot , s f en „ be JJ^ c^ he f / a ?- ly J ett Lon § reach > and
was hardly prepared tor the big buxom woman that
Sf
M p n 1^ uSnlvtaa bicvd/ Next
wtiite ercy tonowed unceitamiy on a bicycle. Next
morning Percy and the bike disappeared from Camelot.
If Elaine had not been more than fully occupied
with the tasks of housekeeping and the nursing of an
j nva ij d gm’ s attitude since his arrival might have
Xcted her SdomftU^d
at the homestead and in the evenings he seemed
deliberately to avoid L
olm S feature was the attachment that had grown
between BiU and her father -
Theu ’ mutual bond and chief to P ic of conver-
s{! Uon WaS natu f ally . hoi \ es > but in addition to that
there was no mistaking the sincerity of the younger
man’s friendship while her father recinrocated bv
: , incnoMup, wnm ner lamci iccipi Glared b\
u kmS m mt ° bIS confidence more than anyone
S
excluded from some of the discussions °
excluaea
(Continued on page 50.)


Could qour Widow
balance herßudqet?
F
Why have
any doubt
about it . .
why leave
her future to
chance when
you can
create an
estate immediately by taking out
an Insurance policy with this
company ? The saving required is
very small . . the security obtained
gives peace of mind. Mortgage
Insurance guarantees your
dependents’ inheritance of debt-
free property.
PR0BI&
GENERAL INSURANCE C 9 L T .°
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Ji. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Established 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Vazzo Tackles The Congo Snake:—
THE BONE
HEAD
BY CON DREW.
IF everyone had their rights I’d be a
star patient in Giggleville. Dinky-di,
I would. You’d have thought that I’d
had enough setbacks from wrestlers to
last me until Shadriak blows the last
bassoon. Not me. I’m hardly out of
the wrestlin’ game a month before I’m
in it agen in Melbourne, managin’ a
Russian grappler called Vazzo with
Finger Thompson.
Finger was a great one for foreign
grapplers. He reckoned they didn’t know
enough English to put up a schlenter on
you. There’s lots of other things that
some of them don’t know, but I’ll tell
you about that later. Finger had got
this bird Vazzo off a sailin’ ship or some-
where when he hadn’t much left but his
appetite. He thought Vazzo was a world-
beater, and if size counts for anythin’
he should have been one, too.
He pulled down the scale at seventeen
stone, and his chest and limbs were as
big as a gorilla’s. In some ways he was
like a gorilla, too. When put out, he
had a habit of banging hisself on the
chest, and it sounded like a hammer on
a tub. His head was clamped on to his
shoulders so close that if they’d went to
hang him they couldn’t have found his
neck. He wasn’t a wizard upstairs, but
I’ve got to hand it to him, he was strong.
In the small ring at our gymnasium
where he did his training he threw his
wrestling partners about as if they was
toy balloons. Once he grabbed hold of
a bloke that was the end of him. One
chap’s neck looked longer than a garden
"You don’t need to be in it if you don't
want to.”
hose when Vazzo was done with it. He
threw another cove up in the air, and
he ain’t hardly come down yet.
Yes, he was strong all right, but bein’
strong ain’t everything in wrestlin’, 1
said as much to Finger one day, and he
got a trifle lemony.
“You seen what Vazzo did to his mat
partners, didn’t you?” says Finger.
“I did,” says I.
“Well, he threw them, didn’t he?”
“He did,” says I, “but could he re-
prodooce the act in a bigger ring?”
“He could reprodooce the act in a
paddock,” says Finger. “Just wait until
we get him a match and you’ll see some
proper wrestlin’.”
But gettin’ him a match took some
doing. He wasn’t known to most of the
wrestlin’ baboons, and those who had
seen him in trainin’ fought shy of him.
Finger was out every day interviewin’
wrestlers and promoters, but for all the
good he did he might as well have stayed
at home.
And all the time it was costing us good
money to keep Vazzo in eats. Eat? It
was like tryin’ to act as scran provider
for a pet elephant. For a mornin’ snack
he scoffed sufficient provender to bal-
last the Queen Mary, and at dinner-time
he’d have a double issue. At tea he did
the knife-and-fork act over again, and
wound up by getting outside a dozen
tomatoes. He reckoned he liked tomatoes
best because you didn’t have to skin
them.
WELL, we’d been lookin’ for a match
for Vazzo for about three weeks
when Finger dashed in one day with the
news that he’d signed him up with a
grappler called The Congo Snake for a
prelim.”
“H’m,” said I, thinking of the money
we’d spent on our baboon. “There ain’t
much in a prelim.”
“I admit there ain’t,” agreed Finger,
“but it might lead to something better
later on. Besides,” he winds up, “I
backed him for twenty quid to throw
The Snake in fifteen minutes.”
“Why back him to throw The Snake?”
says I. “Why not just back him to win?”
“Because it was the only way I could
get The Snake’s manager to bet,” Finger
come back. “You don’t need to be in
it if you don’t want to.”
“I’m in it if you are,” says I, “but they
tell me The Snake’s got brains, and I’d
rather have backed our bloke agen some-
one who isn’t a quick thinker. Vazzo
ain’t a front-ranker in regard to inter-
ject.”
“He ain’t greezed-lightnin’ upstairs I’ll
admit,” says Finger, “but he’ll think
quick enough to throw The Snake.”
I had me doubts about that, but I
didn’t say so to Finger. Instead, I asked
him when and where the affray was goin’
to take place.
“Next Saturday night,” says Finger,
“at Joe Larenski’s hall.”
That was on Tuesday, and we put in
the next three days puttin’ the final
polish on Vazzo. He looked so well on
Saturday night that when we lumbered
him down to the hall Finger plonked an-
other tenner on him under the same con-
ditions as the previous twenty.
The ring was on a stage at one end of
the hall like it was at most of the
wrestlin’ joints in them days, and there
was just room for us to walk between
the back-ropes and the wall as we took
Vazzo to his corner. We’d drawn the
corner nearest to the wall, and while
we were waitin’ for The Snake to show
up I took a squint of the house. It was
packed jamb-full. I don’t think they
could have got another half-dozen in if
they’d tried to fire them in with a shot-
gun. They hadn’t all come to see our
blokes in action though. Most of them
had come to see the main bout.
After a bit The Snake breezed into the
ring and sat down in his corner. He was
a slick-lookin’ gent, with jet-black hair,
and he looked to be trained to the minute.
He was two stone lighter than our gorilla,
but he had the reputation of bein’ a
snappy wrestler. What’s more, he was
game.
We’d given Vazzo his instructions
before we came down to the hall, but
Finger thought it wouldn’t hurt to prime
him up agen, so he leans across and says:
“Now don’t forget what I told you. A
points victory don’t get us anything.
You’ve got to throw this bird quick and
lively. Keep on top of him from the
start and don’t let him get set. When
you dump him, dump him good and
heavy. Do you get me?”
“Yah,” says Vazzo, “I dump heem.”
“Good,” says Finger. “And see that
At dinner time he’d have
a double issue.
ms head js
the first part
of him to hit
t h e canvas.
Don’t let
there be no
beg-pardons.”
The referee
breezed i n
then, and
there was a
bit of a wait
while he gave
the mp.n their
instructions. Then he sent them on their
fifteen-minute journey.
Bah! The debate hadn’t hardly begun
before I seen that Vazzo had no more
chance of throwin’ The Snake than he’d
have had of stranglin’ the Three Mus-
keteers. The Snake was much too slick
and brainy for him. On top of that he
knew he had only to stay on deck for a
quarter of an hour to win the money,
and he wasn’t takin’ any chances. Vazzo
went after him hotfoot, but The Snake
was too shrewd to mix it. He kept side-
steppin’ our baboon’s corn-beef rushes
and generally managed to keep out of
danger.
ONCE Vazzo fluked a hold on him and
dumped him on the mat, but before
our bloke could dive on top of him The
Snake rolled out of danger. It was
amazin’ how quick he was, A dozen
times as the bout progressed Vazzo
seemed to be within an ace of securin’ a
workable hold, and each time The Snake
fooled him and floated away.
This went on for the first ten minutes,
and the crowd began to laugh.
“Get a lasso,” they yells to our bloke.
“Get a flamin’ lasso.”
Vazzo was a puzzled man. In the
small ring in his gymnasium work-outs
he had been used to just grabbin’ his
man whenever he felt inclined. This was
anew style of wrestlin’.
“It’s all right,” says Finger to me.
“Just wait until Vazzo gets a proper
hold of him.”
“He’ll have to do it mighty soon,”
says I. “There’s only five minutes left.”
Five minutes? If it had been five
hours our baboon couldn’t have thrown
The Snake on time. And The Snake was
too shrewd a bird to get caught nappin
after negotiatin’ two-thirds of the jour-
ney. Every time Vazzo got close to him
he scuttled away like a soft-shell crab. It
was like an elephant chasin’ a rainbow.
"Don’t let there be no beg-pardons.”
And so the debate dragged on. And
the further it went the less chance had
Finger and me of seem’ our thirty quid
again. I didn’t feel none too pleased
with meself, let me tell you.
Just when there was about half a
minute to go before time was up, Vazzo
bottled The Snake up in a corner. It was
a certainty for The Snake to get away as
he had done a dozen times before, and
Finger and me both knew it. Somethin’
had to be done if that thirty frogskins
of ours was to be saved, and done quick
and lively.
On the wall about three feet from our
corner was the switch which controlled
the lights. “If he can’t catch The Snake in
the light,” I says to Finger, “I’ll see what
he can do in the dark,” and I grabbed
the handle of the switch and pulled it
down.
Instanter the hall was plunged into dark-
ness and the crowd was too astonished
to even let out a yell. There was a
sound of scufflin’ in the ring and, after a
bit, I heard a thud that sounded like a
ton of pig iron bein’ dumped.
“He’s got him down at last,” thinks I,
“and it’s guineas to gooseberries Vazzo’s
on top.” And with that I switched on
the light.
AND I was right for once. Vazzo was
on top all right; well and truly on top.
But he wasn’t on top of The Snake. True
to label, the numskull had got the referee
Like an elephant chasin’ a rainbow.
down and had pinned him on the mat.
The bell went then and the bout was
over.
Now wouldn’t that almost make a man
turn honest?


jht pitfMlan Scuttudn (ricudU
GROUND SHARP TO
STAY SHARP
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HIGH-CLASS STORES AND JEWELLERS /
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 Q’CONN£LL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F- E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.6.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. Sinclair,
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(I WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
DF
HONOURED
Bank of New South Wales Travellers’ Cheques
provide a safe and convenient method of meeting
travel expenses.
These cheques are issued in amounts of £2, £5 and
£lO and bear a specimen of the traveller’s sig-
nature for identification purposes.
They can be cashed at any of the Bank’s 760
branches in Australia, New Zealand, the Pacific
Islands and London and its 7,500 agents and
correspondents throughout the world.
The Bank’s Travellers’ Cheques are also accepted
by the principal shipping and railway companies,
hotels, stores, tourist offices, etc., throughout the %
world.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
1 CHEQUES
• Obtainable through any branch of the Bank.
207A.1936
TO ENGLAND
P the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney; Melbourne.
A Drama of Central Australia:-
DISSOLUTION
OF PARTNERSHIP
BY. W.D. FLANNERY.
SHADOW filled the gorge, even though
the sun still blistered the western
ridges. Utterly insignificant in that
rock-ribbed desolation, three living
creatures moved into this haven of shade.
Vinson led the way, a sweating Hercules
with broken teeth and yellow eyes. He
moved gingerly, nursing his bulk on that
maimed foot. He had been chopping
pear in Queensland a year before and
had stopped to get a pebble out of his
boot when the adder struck. Now, as
never before, he regretted that one sav-
age chop which had deprived him of
three toes, and left behind a deformity
that was nagging hell when stressed un-
duly. Behind him was the camel —a
stinking phantom, loaded enormously.
Last of all came Fenton, tough and wiz-
ened, and with the brand of the half-
caste on every feature.
Fifty miles behind them, and as far
again west of the overland telegraph line,
was the mean shanty of “Dilly” Bates,
the witless prospector. On the floor of
that shanty lay the body of Bates, with
half his head missing. From the shack
had vanished everything in the way of
food and water and a certain little green-
hide sack of surprising poundage. It was
not the first Territory crime for which
Vinson and his partner might have
accounted ; but it was the most mon-
strous, and, if luck smiled, the most pro-
fitable.
“If the luck sticks to us. Darky, we'll
have a change from this lousy muck.”
Vinson tilted the waterbag and drank
recklessly. He always spoke and acted
first in all things.
“There’s a thousand quid in that sack.
Nice fishin’, eh?”
The half-caste said nothing. He rarely
spoke. If he was last to speak and act
he was also last to sleep. The nearer
they drew to civilisation the greater was
his distrust of the bigger man. He knew
that Vinson would kill him without a
qualm if it could be done with some
reasonable degree of safety to himself;
and Vinson always carried the shotgun
and slept with it tied to his side. Fen-
ton’s safety lay in the fact that they were
still a long way from their goal, and
he was the one on whom depended their
hope of getting out of the wilderness.
Vinson knew nothing of bushmanship.
Before the sky paled they were away
again. It would be only a matter of time
before the troopers missed “Dilly” Bates.
They went on under a sun that scorched
their world anew with its merciless fire.
The rocks flung irradiated heat from hill
to hill. The dryness of the air could be
tasted. In the stunted brush an occa-
sional locust spun the heat into vibra-
tory sound. Twice in the next hour
Vinson drank deeply. He hated those
blackened ridges. He hated the depriva-
tions they entailed. His one abiding
thought was to get back to the world of
men—alone. Hour after hour he braced
himself with that purpose. Once the
limit of Fenton’s usefulness was in sight
he would take himself and the little
greenhide sack into that beckoning life
of ease and luxury.
AFTER a lifetime of roasting struggle
they camped again by the side of a
dry watercourse.
“How much more of this?” demanded
Vinson, removing his boot and reversing
the bandage on his maimed foot. It was
near daybreak again, and he had come
out of a troubled sleep in a fever, fight-
ing off the horde of demons that peopled
his dreams.
“About forty mile.”
Fenton had been up for some time.
He pointed to one of the waterbags
which was only half-full.
“That thing’s leaked somehow. We’ll
have to go easy till we find water. Take
us two more days yet —maybe longer
with your dummy hoof.”
Vinson smiled inwardly. Unaware
that his every move had been watched
by the half-caste, he had sneaked from
his blankets in the night. Filling a num-
ber of empty flasks from the bag, he had
manipulated things craftily so that it
might appear that a leakage had
occurred. Fenton had seen these things
as he lay quiet, feigning sleep. He had
been vastly entertained by the spectacle.
There were some things in which he was
the real strength of the alliance. In
physique and sheer animal courage, Vin-
son was supreme ; but Fenton had brains.
He had delib-
erately misled the
bigger man in all
matters of mo-
ment. He well
knew that the
distance before
them was twice
his spoken esti-
mate. Fenton was
well aware that
their water supply was good for two
days only, but he had seen some quail
when they were pitching camp the pre-
vious afternoon, and the birds had all
travelled in the same direction. He had
marked their flight with a cunning in-
stinct. His tainted ancestry gave him a
sense of bushmanship that no white man
could approach.
He had absorbed every insignificant
feature of their barren surroundings, and,
provided they kept within a reasonable
distance of the site, he knew he could
always come back to it with certainty.
When he did come he knew he would
find water. Meanwhile, nothing could
be simpler than to circle about that
locality until the water gave out. Vinson
would never know that their progress was
other than normal. There would be no
need to consider Vinson at all after that.
Nature can commit a murder most effi-
ciently sometimes. However, just to
make sure of the ground, Fenton decided
to have a look around before they started
off again. He picked up the spare water-
bag, which was dry and stiff.
“I’ll have a look along this channel,’'
he said. “Might fluke a spring with a
bit of luck. We’ll shift out in an hour —
or sooner, if I’m back.”
Vinson watched him disappear around
a bend.
Once out of sight, he turned abruptly
and struck off to the right, following the
direction the birds had taken. Some in-
born sense led him eventually to a slop-
ing field of rocks, dull black from the
fires of some prehistoric cataclysm. No
vegetation grew in this smitten area.
Beyond it yawned a basin, scooped in
blistered adamant. Fenton followed its
slope, and paused presently on the lip
of a ledge. He looked over, and his
smoky eyes narrowed suddenly.
Spread out in the unobstructed glare
of the sun, and fully ten feet wide, was
a limpid pool of water. All about it lay
a dreadful company. Skeletons of beast
and bird were everywhere. Death in
a score of fantastic grimaces had frozen
the wild things that had come out of the
scorching desert to sip agony in a
seeming oasis. Some venomous cavern
of the earth lay beneath that water.
Even as he watched, Fenton saw a tiny
spiral of bubbles ascending in the centre.
They rose in measured jets, as though
forced gently by some beating pulse far
below. Yet, in the air above him, the |
quail still made their significant way
northward.
FENTON followed them. He went care-
fully with many pauses, listening in-
tently until the individual note of the
stray bird was co-ordinated into a massed
chorus. His ears eventually led him to a
point where his eyes could take up the
search. He was a hundred feet above
the declivity and a quarter of a
mile from the pool of death when he
located the spring. It was a tiny thing,
but adequate. It dripped from the roots
of a shrub set in a crevice of the rocks.
Even then Fenton watched the birds
for quite a while before he was satisfied.
He tried the water on the tip of his
tongue and found it cool and sweet. No
longer suspicious, he drank. He had
filled his spare flasks when the sound of
a gunshot proved Vinson’s eagerness to
be on the way. Fenton’s retreat from the
spring was careful and deliberate. He
did many things that would help his
return later. He was not accustomed to
take unnecessary chances. That tiny
trickle, after all, was his fountain of
hope. It was the answer to everything.
Back again at the basin with its grisly
sentinels, he let down the dry bag and
soaked it well, A flickering amusement
crossed his features as he watched it fill
to capacity, but his expression was merely
businesslike when he joined Vinson a
little later.
“Clicked!” he announced, holding out
the dripping bag and indicating its en-
circling line of woven red. “Use the
plain bag first, Harry, This is spring
water, but it’s a bit sour. Be better for
standing a while. We’re set now. There’s
enough here to see us through.”
“What about old stinkpot?” Vinson
pointed to the camel.
“He’ll last another day,” said Fenton
calmly. “After that we’ll be right. If
he flops you can shoot him.”
(Continued on next page.)


m&g**
s mm
I
I
■mmm
mmm
Busy factories . . . mills . . .
goodsyards ... wharves ...
the hurry and bustle of
commerce . . . outward
symbols of prosperity and
national expansion which,
more than is generally rea-
lised, depend upon the
success of the man on the
land. In fact, his contribu-
tions represent, in value,
nearly sixty per cent, of the
State's total production! In
this national expansion the
Rural Bank is playing its
part by financing the deve-
lopment of farms in all parts
of the State and thereby
helping to increase rural
production. The Bank
merits your support and
will be pleased to accept a
Fixed Deposit or open a
current account for you at
any of its branches.
IMLBIK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE:
14 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
Sydney Branch: 350 GEORGE ST. ,
(opp. Wynyard St.)
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President)
H. ROGERS P. KEARNS
The half-caste now led the way ; and,
all unsuspectingly, Vinson followed him
into the brassy glare. The day was fear-
fully hot again: and the sandy going
was as living ashes. The sun beat down
nakedly as if the intervening veil of atmo-
sphere were not there. Vinson followed
along, nourished by the watprbag and
the growing madness in his brain. When
he did lift his pale eyes to scan the life-
less ridges he saw nothing to disturb that
prevailing thought of what might be done
with the contents of the little greenhide
sack when the time came. That deadly
landscape meant nothing to him now.
Before the stars showed themselves a
second time it would be behind him for
ever ; and Fenton —the piebald mongrel
—would stay in it, too. Blinded by this
envisioned prospect, the big man tailed
along doggedly.
When they finally halted to escape the
worst heat of the afternoon, Fenton
showed him a low, straggling range sepa-
rated from them by a dozen miles of
shimmering haze.
“That’s it,” he announced, picking up
the waterbag. “Three mile past that
there break in the hills is the track to
the diggings. After that the rest’s easy.”
“Is that dinkum?” Vinson’s eyes were
blazing. “You ain’t guessin’?”
Fenton laughed outright. He knew
well that they were no more than a mile
from that terrible pool; but Vinson
didn’t seem to notice anything strange
in this unwonted hilarity. They were
loosening the pack - now, nearly hidden
from one another by the camel’s bulk.
Vinson was very quiet as he grunted and
pulled at the straps.
“Better leave what we don’t want if
we’re that close,” he suggested presently,
moving back to the slope of the animal’s
rump.
“Good idea.”
Fenton was easing the pack to the
ground.
“No sense carrying dead weight any
further. Dump everything bar the sack
and waterbags.”
He looked up grinning. The grin re-
mained, but the top of Fenton’s face dis-
appeared in startling fashion. Like light-
ning, Vinson wheeled on the frantic
camel, which, terrified by the explosion,
was struggling up the slope. The second
barrel brought it rolling back again, a
screaming, kicking mass,
WITHOUT a tremor Vinson cleaned
his gun. He pulled Fenton’s body
aside, took up the sack and waterbags
and went ahead into the north. There
still remained some four hours of day-
light which he could use to advantage.
And Vinson, mad with the lure of what
lay ahead, would carry on till dark.
The limping giant pushed ahead stead-
ily. He paused often to drink from one
of the bags ; but the other, tied to his
back together with the greenhide sack,
pressed his huge shoulders comfortingly.
On he went amid the drone of the locusts.
The hills seemed to swing about him in
the humid air. For a time that seemed
eternal, he hastened on, urged to despe-
ration by his consuming desire to get as
far out of that desolation as the waning
day would permit. Drinking, he cast the
empty bag down.
Shadows were blackening the ground
when he eventually slid down a gravelled
slope, to gain his feet with a guttural cry
of dismay. Near a heap of scattered
chattels the mangled head of Fenton
grinned up at him. He was back again
at his starting point.
The first shock of discovery passed.
Vinson was not an imaginative man.
Brutal and callous he might be, but he
had the guts of a working bullock. When
daybreak came he would start out again,
more carefully. Meanwhile, that grin-
ning horror annoyed him. He covered it
with the spare blankets and heaped some
loose boulders on top. Then, taking him-
self higher up the declivity, he placed his
burdens on the ground and sat down.
Tired by his exertions, and burning
with the blistering heat of the day, he
reached for the second waterbag.
Light Comedy of Luv:—
MY FIRST GIRL
BY M. IPITT.
SOMEHOW there is always some-
thing different about one’s first
girl. I remember there was about
Connie. You’d scarcely believe it now.
She’s married someone else who smokes
a filthy pipe, does not shave as often as
he might do and has a rooted aversion to
wearing socks and boots when potter-
ing about the house,
Connie is nearing middle-age and is
stout. Her complexion is much coarser
than it used to be, and she is the mother
of four red-headed brats who seem to
have perpetual colds.
I first met* Connie Dale at a Sunday-
school picnic. After dinner I’d thrown
a few gibbers at a stolid cow —so
apathetic, indeed, that it provided but
poor sport. Soon tiring of this, I lay
down behind a large tree trunk, lit a
fag and smoked it, keeping a wary eye
open for the Reverend Sebastien Thistle-
waite, whose red nose could smell a
cigarette a mile off.
While thus engaged I heard a series
of screams and squeals from the direc-
tion of the brook. Determined not to
miss anything, I stubbed the fag, hastily
dropped it into my pocket and ran to
investigate.
A not over-clean infant was flounder-
ing about in three feet of water. His
were the screams. A skinny, red-headed
Sunday-school teacher was prancing
about on the bank and wringing her
hands. The squeals were hers.
In my eagerness to get a better view
of the proceedings, I pressed on down
the slopes of the bank, when my foot
caught in an upturned root and I was
precipitated into the water. I had got
hold of the kid and was casually haul-
ing him to the bank when I got a flash
of inspiration. I slipped, completely sub-
merging the boy, whom I managed to
rescue after a great deal of spluttering
and splashing. I scrambled out of the
water with my prize to find that fate
and a brainwave had turned me into
the hero of the day.
Dressed in an assortment of dry
clothes again, I submitted gracefully to
having my badly scraped leg bandaged
by the Sunday-school teacher, whose
name, I discovered, was Connie Dale.
Now that I had a chance to take a
second glance at her I perceived that she
was not red-headed at all, merely auburn,
while skinny hardly described her, slim
being a better word.
I sat beside her on the truck on the
way home and listened to her singing
with the rest of the crowd, none of
whose voices was fit to hold a candle
to hers. My own voice is not tuneful,
but it certainly does not lack volume,
and I am never diffident about using it.
However, on this occasion my throat
seemed dry and parched, and, any rate,
who was I to butt into good singing?
Before leaving her I made a date to
meet her for a stroll the following after-
noon, and before going to bed that night
I substituted an old rag round my leg
instead of Connie’s handkerchief. That
souvenir I carried around in my breast
pocket for three days with the utmost
care, after which it must somehow have
fallen out, for I later found my young
brother Chimp busily polishing his
shoes with it.
After suitably
scragging him I
retrieved it, but
surreptitious
washings failed to
remove the dark
tan blobs, which
did not look at
all romantic, so finally I burned it.
I took to writing poetry. These verses
did not come to me in bursts of inspira-
tion, but each line was born of labor
and thought. I remember well one verse
which started:
Love, glorious love,
It carries you right up to heav’n above !
I recollect that I spent half an hour
on those two lines, deliberating as to
whether to write “heaven” or “heav’n.”
When I read the finished product over
to myself, I deemed it time well spent.
There was a Mr. Thompson in our
office then. He read heaps and heaps
of poetry and that stuff. I wanted him
to hear my stanzas, but I didn’t know
how to set about it. Finally I waited
until I was alongside him, then I quoted
in a deep voice:
Love, glorious love.
It carries you right up to heav’n above !
A gleam of interest shone in Mr.
Thompson’s eyes.
“Shakspeare? No, it rhymes. Tenny-
son? Stick to Tennyson, Scrummy my
lad. Great stuff in Tennyson.”
The same day Reggie, the dispatch
boy, discovered my friendship with
Connie and asked me didn’t I think her
figure was a bit scraggy and hadn’t she
protruding teeth. When he had picked
himself up from the floor and righted
the chair which his fall had overturned
he admitted that maybe he was mis-
taken. I didn’t like that “maybe”
much, but as I couldn’t be sure of king-
hitting him again I let it pass.
DURING the days that followed I
found that love —very young love, at
any rate —had its awkward side. It
meant drastic economies. For instance,
you had to stay out of penny card
games because you couldn’t afford to
lose the money which now had to go
twice the distance. Other petty forms
of gambling were also off. Instead of
doing yourself well on sixpence for your
lunch (buying a fruit slice and four
assorted cakes), you invested in a penny
apple instead. Even then you could only
save two shillings and a penny per
week. The inconvenience of it all, how-
ever, was finally brought home to me
only when I bought an ounce of tobacco
for elevenpence one day and was
forced to sell it, only very slightly used,
for sixpence the next day so that I
might have the necessary tram fare to
go out to see Connie on the Sunday
night.
I recall that it was at dinner a few
days later that I, a man of some six-
teen summers, announced placidly that
“I was thinking of getting married.
My mother glanced up, dropped her
soup spoon, made an explosive noise and
left the room.
My sister Mary snorted. Mary
always snorted when love or marriage
was mentioned.
Chimp said nothing, but just went on
eating, although it is probable that he
would have chipped in with something
if I hadn’t kept my eye on him. Chimp
is one of those persons who affect to
despise the softer emotion he reckons
it’s sissy mugging a girl. Be that as it
may, I remember that for a whole week


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
=s*
V
J§
EESi > -==.
"Ss
dSllip
3e
"0/e
/°*j/
'TCCrtH
Er
k
<ri{
m
&
r
K
\
ft
/?amess
(TKaUums
X UMsAyj^-
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
he once made a present to little Nellie
Dean from next door of every specked
apple he could hum off our fruitman.
Dad said quietly: “Get her a nice
ring, son, while you’re about it. Girls
appreciate nice rings.”
I jingled together the four pennies I
had in my pants pocket and pondered
deeply, not indeed along any line sug-
gested by my father’s words, but some-
thing totally different.
After all, was it really fair —really,
well, playing the game—to sweep a
young girl off her feet and persuade
her to engage herself to you before she
had a chance to get experience of the
world, to look around for herself and
make sure what sort of man she actually
wanted?
She was very, very young. She had
years and years of life in front of her.
Her ideas might easily change. Would
I always remain her ideal? Very
probably, but there was just the tiniest
doubt, and so long as that doubt, how-
ever small, existed would it be fair to
take advantage of her inexperience and
rush her into an early marriage?
Was it cricket?
I doubted it.
Some time she might meet another
man. She might even like him better
than she did me. Women did not always
choose the better man. What would I
do then? Why, give her up! Her
happiness was the only thing that mat-
tered. What did mine matter beside
that? Nothing! I would wait. I would
play the game and trust to her sound
commonsense.
{HAVE recollections of the first time
I took Connie to the pictures. The
usheress showed us to seats next to two
middle-aged ladies. One look at their
faces and I knew we were in a bad
position. I nudged Connie, but some-
times she was a bit slow on the uptake,
and she sat tight.
In a few moments my worst fears
were realised. The woman nearest me
started talking.
“That girl there—Theodora Roberts
is her name —she’s the heroine, and the
man that you just saw, he’s the hero.
The two of them are in love. Oh, look,
here comes the villain. Look at his
moustache. See how he twirls it. Ah,
but something good is coming. The
villain entices poor Theodora to a house
in the country by sending her a tele-
gram saying that her lover is sick. He
ties her to a bedpost and tears all her
clothes off —well, not quite all, if you
understand what I mean.”
At this point I again nudged Connie,
and this time she caught my meaning
perfectly. In a minute or so we were both
settled comfortably in our new chairs,
and I slid one hand tentatively sideways
until it rested very close indeed to one
of Connie’s. Connie did not seem to
notice my boldness and I was duly
grateful. About five minutes later she
pointed to a couple just in front of us.
The man was squeezing the girl’s
fingers and she was smiling gently into
his eyes. I grinned sympathetically,
but Connie gave it as her opinion that
they were common. I silently slid my
arm away again, feeling somewhat like
a pricked balloon.
The picture began to get more and
more romantic. I caught quite a few
sighs as the screen lovers got in some
good work.
To my surprise Connie’s head gradu-
ally crept closer and closer to mine until
it lay on my shoulder. Greatly embol-
dened, I slid my arm cautiously along
the back of her chair and presently
found it resting on a knobby portion of
her shoulder. Somehow or other Connie
had a number of knobby spots. That
was my only grievance about Connie.
Other girls had well-padded areas of
flesh, whereas she had knobs.
All went swimmingly for about half
an hour. Then a large red-faced man
behind us leaned forward and said in
a voice which he did not try to keep
low:
“What’s the idea? What did I pay
me bob for? I can’t see with you two
putting your heads together. Fair go,
mate. If you want to spoon why don’t
you go to the park?”
I returned no answer to this rude out-
burst, but adopted a more normal pos-
ture in my own chair and endeavored,
rather successfully, I flattered myself, to
ignore the many amused and curious
glances cast in our direction. Connie, I
am sorry to say, took the rebuke in a
very unchristian manner, I am still
not quite clear as to what she expected
me to do that night, but I did gather
that she expected me to thrash the brute,
if not in the theatre itself, at any rate
outside after the show was over.
I pointed out that this was most un-
reasonable. The escort of a Sunday-
school teacher could not go about en-
gaging in public brawls. I would be
entirely lacking in respect to her even
to think of it. It was all right for others
to go around fighting, but Christians
had often to repress their natural in-
stincts and set a high example to the
rest of the world.
Connie sniffed unbelievingly and re-
marked that possibly the size of the
objector had something to do with my
discretion.
I hastily disclaimed this and asked
crushingly; “Was Goliath afraid of
David?”
Connie retorted sweetly that hadn’t
I got things a little mixed and shouldn’t
my question have been: “Was David
frightened of Goliath?”
I thought this unkind of Connie, and
told her so. Why had I been studying
the Bible lately? Was it for amuse-
ment? No, it was purely because of
her —because I wished to make myself
worthy of her. And was it fair of her to
expect me to become word-perfect in
a few weeks and to come down on me
for a simple mistake that anybody might
make? No! I was disappointed in her!
I had thought that her Christian prin-
ciples went deeper than just the surface.
Here was an excellent opportunity to put
them into practice. I thought that it
would be a good idea for me to turn the
other cheek.
Connie said tartly that she thought it
would be a very good idea, too —pro-
vided only that I turned it away from
her.
There didn’t seem to be any comeback
to that, so I let it go, and we sat in a
stuffy silence for most of the rest of the
picture. However, at the interval we
became much more friendly, and before
it was over the clouds had all blown
away.
The confounded lolly-boy frequently
and significantly paused in front of us
and I ignored him as long as I could,
but finally I could hold out no longer.
I had but one shilling in my pocket,
and, although it meant that I would have
to walk home, I bought two three-
penny chocolates and we munched them
until the lights went off again.
I ESCORTED Connie home on the tram,
* paying out my last sixpence in fares.
Outside her gate we lingered long, but
finally at her urging I hastily said good-
bye to her as I heard the last tram
coming. I gave a good imitation of my
customary dash around the corner to
board it, but as soon as I was out of
Connie’s sight I slowed down to a walk
and .allowed the tram to go sailing by.
Plunging my hands in my empty
pockets, I commenced to tramp the three
miles to my home.
Side Street.
Back from the paved way this night is
met
by the sea’s lost children. A lamp’s
rivulet
streams over a brown body, a red sash;
for who walks here walks as a rainbow-
splash
upon a curtain of jet.
Flowers in stiff hair; broad teeth, white-
gleaming; black eyes,
smooth but still savage, caught in a
molten flash;
the oiled skins; the rapt singing; the
soft tongue:
be these remembered until memory dies !
And though 1 have known these people
near their true core
in further, untroubled villages hid among
remote, rain-shattering hills where their
lives make
no count of the years passing, I think of
them more
here, pressed against a new meaning, a
strange mode
unparalleled in the old path they forsake.
For here their steel must sharpen on
harsh files
(race grinding race ) to cleave now a
fresh road;
else shall they tread the sunlight some
few miles,
then, singing even with last bitter breath,
go decked in paper garlands down to
death.
Fusion of bloods, submergence of past
things,
eclipse, survival — it’s to-morrow’s care !
Dark Loma behind her lattice flicks the
strings
and the tune steps out light-footed upon
the air.
FIJI.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Aftermath.
There is something of you in the passing
of autumn rain.
When the paddocks are pearled with
mushroom-rings again.
With the sun in the myrtles, gilding them
through and through,
Is something, too, that seems to be part
of you.
The hills looked nearer to-night, of a
mightier strength.
While sunset and saffron flooded their
broken length.
The world was empty of wind, and the
stars were few —
Still there was something there that was
part of you.
TASMANIA.
There is nothing for me where these
bush-sweet acres lie
In their miles of silence that reach to the
farthest sky;
Nothing to find in the mountains yearn-
ing there —
Only this strange sweet Presence every-
where.
The dews hang later upon the spear-grass
now
With Autumn among the appled hollows.
How
Can I be content with this living, and
living on.
When an aching sense of you lingers
while you have gone ?
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


A
m.
I
i
'An
:Svs
\m
m
Mm fti
k w*
m
mm
uyriij
SSS 9
mm
re
(iiniiinuwssss
W >
Ilf
iMioM
lurrs*
Sl3
STANDARD
CEU
v *nUrTcTUfitD 6 y
[vfr^eadv^
I 1I
-'Hil CEU
□ RCHt
“HIT cd l
W°U4
Energy
A charge or two of powder, perfectly
placed, will fracture a mountain.
Energy is power, efficiently and forcibly
exerted.
You will find in each Ever Ready
Battery you buy, a maximum of efficient
energy for the operation of your
Torch, Radio, or other battery-operated
apparatus.
E.E.I
•—-r^^^AIISTRALIAS BEST BATTERIFS~
D
mem
emmm
TORCHES;
t-RADIO BATTERIES
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
N. 8.: No ginger in either of them....
E.J.G.: Your long-strung-out metaphor makes
stodgy reading H.C.8.; Poor stuff and a
deal too much of it... .W.J.W.: Poems in
pidgin-English need to be very snappy to get
past. Yours is quite unintelligible without a
glossary A.M.: We wouldn’t say there’s no
hope for you, but we can’t hold out much.
P.J.I.: A sort of drone or croon, and
not a very musical one... .J.W.: Nothing in it.
. ...W.L.: There’s plenty of verse material in
the Mallee, but you haven’t found any
S.L.N.: You’ll have to express yourself less
awkwardly, also more grammatically, before you
see print... .LJ.M.: Unsuitable E.C.L.C.:
Doggerel... .A.S.: Condensed and polished,
“The Horses of the Bush” would stand
a good chance. As it is, you’ve left the last
line unfinished J. 8.; It’s been done so
often and so much more effectively G.W.:
There’s some merit in all of them and not
enough in any. If you are a beginner, don’t
lose heart; the best only comes by successive
effort G.McB.: They all ripple or trickle
along intelligibly, if not intelligently, but there
isn’t a winner in the whole bundle J.M.:
“The Bushman’s Ode to the Moon” won’t
reach the Selenites through any agency of ours.
H.T.: It didn’t get past F. 8.: They
would have more appeal in a M.L. paper
E.R.M.: A worn theme, with too many old
props.... Bellerive: Tributes to old contribu-
gg one o£ themselves are always grati-
' R q UINN
A exce i lent poem is occasional seen
By the veteran poet of The Bulletin.
For many years he’s held he’s place
For masterful verse of beauty and grace.
K.T.: Mushings of callow near-society coup c
lack interest....A.W.: That Fight the be er
of the two, though both fail. •. .R.bt.G.. oi
don’t like “Guiding Star,” and the lottery win
on the birthday is too trite a fictional device,
. ...M.N.: Character sketch shows promise,
and you’ve limned an egotist well; the weak-
ness is in the plot. Try a new tack....
H.T.E.: Doubt whether you could unload t e
story; the children’s verse might have a chance
in the magazine section of a Saturday daily.
LA.: You won’t get that type of yarn
past—we like a setting in the Southern Hemi-
sphere J.M.C.: Too sentimental, untrue to
life and out of date... .F.W.: Well enough
told, but falls short m plot.. .^.A.V.N.: No
cheque, alas! will nestle m the wallet.
D.W.: Very close try elsewhere
C.J.McD.: “Booze” had no kick in it....
M.T.: Nicely written, but plot a bit too
thin... .M.R.J.: Nothing publishable in that
bunch; put more snap into yom stun
0.K.C.: Humor forced J.M.: No bush-
man ever spoke like that... .F.S.H.: A little
too muddled and vague for our liking...,.
E.M.P.: For all your hard work it amounts
to practically nothing R.W.: One of the
sub-families -of the sudden-rise-to-fortune
school, and not very interesting... .R.I. : The
Tattooed Lady” will not adorn our gallery ot
heroines N.8.C.: Your adventure with the
cheese is more a soporific than a laugh-raiser.
D.C.: Afraid we are sceptics so far as
that class of story is concerned.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.D.: More an exhibition of signposts and
labels than a political cartoon R.S.: We
turn that particular drunk away at least once
a month A.H.: Washwork muddy, and
jest pointless D.J.S.: You have a neat
line but little humor. G.F.: Why is the
horse floating a few yards above the street
level? S.M.: Study newspaper policy before
submitting political cartoons M. 8.: Nothing
in that mess of blots and smudges
L. : No appreciation for the fellow with the
trousers resembling drainpipes F.M.: You’ll
have to improve before attempting such am-
bitious pieces 0.M.: Gags lack crispness,
and drawings are ugly... .E.D.: You forgot to
give her arms P.J.: Pencil drawing is too
faint for successful reproduction... .A.M.G.:
Phil May also thought it a capital gag when
he illustrated it....W.K.; Linework is good,
but there is a mustiness about the gags....
M. A hackneyed retort and an untidy piece
of art.
A MIXED GRILL.
George Inglis Hudson, who died in
Sydney recently, was a Hobartian with
a talent for inventing capsule medi-
cines. His Eumenthol jubes were known
the world over. He was a Hutchins
School boy who qualified as a pharma-
cist in Sydney and settled in Ipswich
(Q.) in 1888 as a chemist and dentist.
Twenty years later he had made himsell
an authority on eucalyptus, on which he
is quoted in the Extra Pharmacopoeia,
and had launched his panacea. He was
made a Fellow of the British Chemical
Society in 1917. In his younger days he
was a well-known amateur cyclist, and
latterly a keen golfer and follower of
the sport of kings.
* T $ *
Much of the feeling against the New
Deal arises from the fact that a New
York Democrat of the good old Tam-
many type has the distribution of a lot
of the money. He is James Farley, the
Postmaster-General, and the soberest of
American weeklies begins a reference to
him with the words “It goes without say-
ing that the many political speeches of
Mr. Farley are largely discounted by the
country.” Now, the cableman mentions
that New York State, with' a tenth of the
U.S.A. population, is getting 27 p.c. of
the national relief expenditure. Jim
Farley has not forgotten the bhoys.
* * * *
The rose of England must look to its
laurels, or perhaps its petals, for one of
the most coveted awards in the rose
world has for the second time been
awarded out of Great Britain. Its winner
this year is Alister Clark, of Bulla (Vic.),
well known for his success at evolving
new species of roses. At the opening day
of the autumn rose show in Melbourne
Town Hall James Allen, president of the
Vic. National Rose Society, made the
presentation to, in his own words,
“the greatest rosarian in the world.”
Jf. # ❖
“Talahua”; After a hectic night ashore,
a naval officer was returning to his ship
in a hired skiff. Cigarettes he had in
plenty, but no match. George, owner
and mechanism of the wherry, on being
appealed to, reached down from the bows
his excuse for a steaming light—a
battered old hurricane-lamp—and passed
it aft. Grasping it somewhat unsteadily
the reveller lit his cigarette, gave the
lamp a couple of impatient shakes and
idly cast it from him into the placid
waters of the harbor.
He # ; i ;
“Hamilton”: According to the Queens-
land professional Von Nida, who took a
successful part in the Tasmanian autumn
championships, the future is bright with
big money prizes. The Tassies splashed
in solid rewards for their tournament,
and consequently drew a strong entry
of mainland professionals. Next year,
with the Tourist Bureau co-operating,
there will be £lOOO for the open cham-
pionships. At present the money offered
in the Australian open events is mere
chicken feed by comparison with that
hung up for overseas professionals, and
Tasmania has set an example other golf-
ing States will have to follow.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Reported of Grandpa
Grimmett, that Ahasuerus of Australian
cricket, that South Africa has offered him
a gilt-edged job as player-coach. The
Commonwealth Parliament should pass
a special Act forbidding him to leave the
country until after the visit of the Eng-
lish team next season. Maoriland, N. S.
Wales, Victoria and South Australia have
all been abiding places for Grimmett in
turn. We may yet find him playing for
England, though his complexion is hardly
coffee-colored enough for that.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: N. S. Wales women-
cricketer candidates for the trip to Eng-
land are to sit for examination in the
laws of cricket. It is a good move, and
one that ought to be applied to all
players desiring to figure in big cricket.
It is astonishing how many men who
have been playing cricket for years are
almost absolutely ignorant of the laws
of the game. These should be taught
in the schools and annual exams, held.
' At an English school writer attended
the last paper of the summer term
exams, was one on the laws of cricket
the winner of the prize was always as
pleased with his success as he was with
his captures in the field of Greek, Latin
and maths.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV£ PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Eso. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ ’ ’
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
QN
BANK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Riverina (N.S.W.), wants posi-
tion as governess-help, preferably with small
children. Refs.—l2BB.
Experienced book-keeper and storekeeper,
N.S.W., with practical knowledge of all classes
of station work, including shearing, can drive
car, wants position as station book-keeper.
Refs. —1339.
Young lady, Sydney, literary attainments,
wants position as companion or on staff of
country newspaper. Refs. —1332.
Youth (20), of intrepid, speculative nature,
college education, would like position with
possibility of adventure, or would act as agent
for overseas concern.—l29o.
Man, Sydney, unemployed, with good
camera, would undertake photographic com-
missions for real-estate agents, magazines,
owners of pets, etc. —1270.
To buy copies, in good order, of Baker’s
Hardwoods of Australia and Blakely’s Key to
the Eucalypts. —l292.
To buy Modern Bookbinding, published by
Dent, London. —1280.
To buy, new or second-hand, A Complete
Course of Life Assurance Salesmanship, by
C. W. Bushell.—l3l4.
Wanted, in good condition, first edition of
F. D. Davison’s Man-Shy. Will buy or ex-
change for some other book. —1261.
Information Sought.
(1) How many wickets has Oxenham taken
in first-class cricket, including the recent Indian
tour, and what is his average ? (2) What
were Hammond’s scores in the 1928-29, 1930
and 1932-33 Test series ? —906.
(1) Oxenham has bagged something like
350 wickets, but too widespread to give the
correct average, since it covers M.L., Australia
and India. The secretary, Q.C.A., Brisbane,
might help you in this matter. (2) Hammond’s
scores in the Tests were:
1928-29. 1930. 1932-33.
First Test —
Ist Innings ~44 8 112
2nd Innings ..28 4
Second Test—
-Ist Innings .. 251 38 8
2nd Innings ~ 32 23
Third Test—
-Ist Innings 200 113 2
2nd Innings ~ 32 35 85
Fourth Test —
Ist Innings .. 119* 3 20
2nd Innings .. 177 14
Fifth Test —
Ist Innings ..38 13 101
2nd Innings 16 60 75*
* Not out. ,
* * * *
Is there anything in the laws or etiquette of
poker which forbids one player asking an-
other player during the course of the betting
how many cards he bought? —l3oo.
According to the standard authorities each
player, including the dealer, must announce
“in a sufficiently loud voice for all to hear”
how many cards he draws or if he draws none,
and no player, after he has been given the
number of cards asked for, can be called upon
to name the number be took. But in many
schools the dealer need not disclose the number
of cards drawn at time of drawing, and he or
any other player may be called upon at any
later stage to disclose this information.
* * * *
(1) Can a .303 high-velocity rifle barrel be
fitted to the ordinary .303 stock without first
truing on lathe ? (2) Will it harm the barrel
of a .303 high-velocity to fire Mark VI
ammunition through it ? (3) How many rounds
will such a barrel stand before being worn
out ? (4) Must all traces of nickel be re-
moved from the barrel before accurate shoot-
ing can be expected ? —1224.
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) A barrel kept in good
condition should fire at least 2000 rounds
before it shows signs of wear. (4) Nickelling
of the barrel will always impede the accuracy
of a rifle, and should be removed.
* * *
If a bar of iron were thrown info the
deepest part of the ocean 'would it sink to the
ocean floor; if not, why ? —1268.
It is a matter of relative specific gravity.
Any object whose weight is appreciably
greater than the weight of the water it dis-
places will sink to the bottom. Iron is over
seven times heavier than salt water; it will,
therefore, sink to the bottom, irrespective of
the depth of the ocean, for though at great
depths sea water is under tremendous pressure
it is practically incompressible, and therefore
its specific gravity is not affected.
* * *
Who discovered the value of eucalyptus oil ?
—1330.
Joseph Bosisto, a native of Hammersmith,
England, who arrived in South Australia in
1827. He was in business as a chemist and
druggist at Richmond, Melbourne, and, dis-
covering the remarkable antiseptic properties of
the oil, was its first manufacturer. He died
m 1898.
*j*
J s Alfred Hill an Australian or Maorilander ?
What are his principal works? —1337.
He was born at Melbourne, and after study-
ing in Germany was for some years conductor
of the Wellington (M.L.) orchestra. He has
been resident in Sydney for a number of years.
His compositions include “Maori Symphony”
(performed at the Crystal Palace, London),
the songs “Waiata Poi” and “Home, Little
Maori,” “Maori Quartet” and “Trumpet
Sonata.” Among his lyric productions are
“Tapu” (a Maori opera), “A Moorish Maid,”
“The Rajah of Shivapore,” “Lady Dolly” and
“Giovanni.”
* * * *
I aspire to story-writing and fancy that
with the proper training I may be a success at
it. I solicit your advice as to how to get such
training ? —1257.
Any of the bigger Sydney booksellers will
give you a list of books in stock dealing with
the technique of fiction, long and short, but
it is not on record that any writer of note
owed anything to such aids. The only way to
perfect technique is to write, and keep on
writing. In 999 cases out of 1000 talent in
this field is innate —either you have it or you
haven’t at the outset. Write stories and send
them to editors; if they make any comments
or offer any suggestions these will usually be
worthy of attention.
♦ * %
(1) How to train a Scottish terrier as a
watchdog ? (2) What would be the cause of
indiscriminate feeding on the part of a dog ?
—1232. .
(1) The obvious thing to do is to induce
callers to the house to repulse the friendly over-
tures of the dog. Tradespeople should only
repulse, whereas casual callers may be in-
duced to repulse him forcibly, so that in the
course of time he would probably tolerate
the tradespeople, but would be the reverse
of friendly to casual callers. (2) The indis-
criminate feeding is probably attributable to
worms, though it may be attributable to a
deficiency in diet.
* $ # *
(1) Cost of construction of the old zigzag
railway in N.S.W. ? (2) Time taken in con-
struction ? (3) Any other information briefly
communicable ? —ll4l.
(1) Cost of Lithgow zigzag up to 1871 Was
£328,285, excluding station buildings, rails and
other ironwork. Since then the line from
Bowenfels to Zigzag has been duplicated (1880),
the Lapstone zigzag has been replaced by a
tunnel (1892), wings at top and bottom points
of the zigzag have been lengthened and dupli-
cated (1908). In 1910 a deviation involving
the cutting of 10 tunnels and reducing the
stiffest grade to 1 in 90 was opened. (2) Work
on the Lithgow zigzag was commenced in May,
1866, and the section from Mt. Victoria to
Bowenfels was officially opened on October 8,
1869. (3) Additional information has been
posted.
* * * *
(1) How many workmen were killed during
the construction of Sydney Harbor Bridge and
approaches ? (2) How long was this work in
progress ? (3) How many persons have been
killed in or by cars on the bridge and
approaches since its opening for traffic ? —lOOO.
(1) Sixteen. (2) Eight years and eight
months. (3) The only fatal accident caused by
cars on the bridge or approaches since its
opening for traffic occurred on August 5,
1932, when two policemen were killed.
*'* $ $
According to Sir James Jeans, it is now an
established fact that there is a distinct connec-
tion between sunspot cycles and rainfall. He
instances that the two big Australian droughts
of 1901-02 and 1913-14-15 occurred at sunspot
minimum. What is the present sunspot posi-
tion —increasing or decreasing ? When was
the last minimum ? When will the next maxi-
mum occur ? Has any research been carried
out in Australia with regard to rainfall cycles
in the past, as indicated by the year-rings in
trees ? —1169.
The last sunspot minimum was approxi-
mately 1933, and the next maximum is expected
about 1937-38. No satisfactory researches have
been carried out in Australia in regard to the
association between tree-rings and sunspots.
The Weather Bureau, Sydney, has on sale for
2s. a bulletin entitled “Some Periods in Aus-
tralian Weather,” bearing on sunspots, rainfall
and variation in pressure over various parts of
Australia. Meteorologists, however, are still
of the opinion that a satisfactory correlation
between sunspots and rainfall has not yet been
established, especially over continuous wide-
spread areas of the continent. It seems that
the effect varies with the locality and seasonal
influence.
* sis * *
When did Jimmy Governor and his com-
panions start upon their career ? What crimes
did they commit, and how long were they at
large ? —452.
Jimmy Governor, an aboriginal formerly
employed as a blacktracker by the Cassilis
police, when about 23 years old was engaged
cutting fencing-posts by John Thomas Mawbey,
of Breelong station, N.S.W. Becoming in-
censed at a reproof, he, with his brother Joe
and two other blacks, went to the homestead
during Mr. Mawbey’s absence on July 19,
1900, and brutally murdered Hilda and Percy
Mawbey, aged 12 and 15, together with a
school-teacher, Miss Kerz, who was a boarder
at the homestead, and so shockingly injured
Mrs. Mawbey and her daughter Grace that
they subsequently died. The gang then dis-
appeared into the wild, mountainous country
surrounding Breelong. On July 24 they mur-
dered an old man, Alexander McKay, and
so injured his wife that she died later; Mrs.
O’Brien and child, of Merriwa, were the next
victims, and on July 26 an old man of 70
named Fitzpatrick was killed. There followed
a long list of robberies, arsons and outrages
before Jimmy Governor was finally surprised
in the open on October 29 and brought down
by a shot. The following day he was brought
before the police magistrate at Wingham
(where for many years his signature remained
scrawled on the wall of the lockup) and
remanded for trial to Sydney, where he was
found guilty and hanged, June 18, 1901, his
career lasting in all a little under four months.
Joe Governor was shot dead at Glenroch
station, Tulbroch Creek, on October 31, 1900.
;J: SH * *
Particulars of the case of Mrs. Major, who
was executed during the jubilee celebrations
of the late King? Was any attempt made to
obtain a reprieve ? —626.
The case did not occur during the jubilee
celebrations, but during the previous year.
Mrs. E. L. Major was charged on October 30,
1934, with the murder of her husband, Arthur
Major, by administering poison. She was
found guilty and sentenced to death on Novem-
ber 2, being recommended to mercy. An
appeal was dismissed, and, despite the jury’s
recommendation, a widely-signed petition for
reprieve was refused. A later appeal was also
dismissed, and she was executed December 20,
1934.
* * * *
(1) Who are some of Australia’s teachers of
the pipe organ ? (2) What are some of Bach’s
most difficult organ works ? —7OB.
(1) Lilian Frost is outstanding in this branch
of the musical profession, as are also G.
Faunce Allman and Vern Barnett; all may be
communicated with c/o Paling’s, George-
street, Sydney. (2) Some of Bach’s most diffi-
cult organ compositions are included among
the Chorale Preludes, notably “Valet Will Ich
Dirgeben,” the second part of which is in
24-16 time; also the Prelude and Fugue in
B Minor, the Passacaglia in C Minor, the
Toccata in C and the Prelude and Fugue in
C Minor. The Toccata in C Major is re-
garded as being unique among Bach’s organ
compositions.
What are the conditions of the Nobel Prize ?
Must an award be applied for, and, in the
case of literature, is it awarded only to pub-
lished works or may it be won by a book in
manuscript ? —l2lB.
The Nobel Prizes are awarded from the
Nobel Foundation, a fund established under
the will of Alfred Bernhard Nobel, Swedish
chemist and inventor (1833-96), which pro-
vided that the interest of £1,700,000 should
be devoted to awarding five equal prizes to
the persons who had made the greatest contri-
butions to civilisation in the departments' of
physics, chemistry, physiology and medicine,
literature and the cause of peace. Each prize
is of the value of £7500, and the first awards
were made December, 1901, since being con-
tinued annually. They are open to all nations,
without restriction of sex. In the case of the
award for literature, it is provided that it shall
be made to the person producing the most
distinguished work of an idealistic tendency;
provision is also made that it shall be divided
in the event of two works submitted both
meriting a prize. The awards are made by
the Swedish Academy of Literature, for works
already published. No application is made —-
the judges take no cognisance of work that is
not published or that is not famous.
* * * *
Does the ordinary white cane sugar used in
food yield alcohol as a product of change or
decomposition in the human body? —llB7.
In the digestive processes the production of
alcohol is limited through the medium of
hydrochloric acid in the stomach. Two fer-
ments in the latter convert the sugar into a
substance similar to rducose; this in its turn is
converted into alconol and carbon dioxide.
The hydrochloric acid acts on the ferments and
their products as a whole. A certain amount
of sugar circulates in the blood in the pro-
portion of 0.1 per cent, approximately; any
deficiency is made good by the liver, which
reconverts its glycogen or animal starch. The
sugar is chiefly used by the muscles as the
food supply for energy in muscular contraction,
etc., and heat for the body generally.
* * * *
(1) Is there any cure for a congenital poly-
cystic condition of the kidneys ? (2) If not,
is there any treatment or diet that will alleviate
this condition ? —759.
There is no exact cure. Treatment depends
on individual diagnosis. Careful regulation of
diet is essential, and the digestive properties of
permissible foods are important. Milk (plain,
skimmed or diluted with Vichy water), eggs
(soft-boiled or poached in milk), chicken broth
and vegetables should constitute the larger
portion of food. Although fish and white
meats are allowed, there is no reason why
red meat (in moderation) should be forbidden.
Fruit, vegetables and salads are all good, but
avoid those of the acid type, as tomatoes,
rhubarb, etc. Bland fluids assist the elimi-
natory functions, but avoid stimulants and
sweet wines with meals.
» * * *
I suffer from weeping eczema, and have used
first boro-chlorotone to remove the surface
unpleasantness and then an ointment to follow.
My medical adviser died and I lost the oint-
ment prescription. Can you suggest what it
was ? The trouble has been recurring for
25 years. Is there any permanent cure, and
does dieting matter? —971.
A useful ointment is salicylic acid 10 grains,
bismuth subgallate 15 grains, solution of coal
tar 10 minims, yellow vaseline 4 drachms, zinc
cream to loz. Smear on without friction at
night, and dust with zinc and starch powder
during the day. Cleanse affected parts with
olive oil in preference to water; avoid red
meat and condiments in the diet. At this stage
it is unlikely that a permanent cure can
be effected.
* * * %
In case of cataract on the eye of aged
person, is an operation necessary? —B43.
Removal of the lens by operation is the
only available treatment. In skilled hands the
danger is slight.
Brief Answers.
A. 8.: Everything depends on the angles,
which should be indicated in degrees, minutes,
seconds... .A.H.P.: Cutcliffe Hyne’s latest
books are Man’s Understanding and Absent
Friends Longwood: The planet seen by
you in the morning is Venus, which rises
shortly after 5 a.m. and is much brighter than
any of the “fixed” stars. There is a second-
magnitude star, Beta Ceti, above it and some-
what to the south. Any of the bright stars
and the brighter planets can be used for pur-
poses of navigation, though the astronomical
positions of the planets are continually alter-
ing. In any case, astronomical tables have
to be consulted. The true bearing of a “fixed”
star at rising or setting will be the same
always for a fixed point of observation, but this
will not hold for the planets. A Guide to the
Southern Stars, by Orr, will probably provide
all further information desired R.H.: (1) C
having introduced B to A and A having sold
the mine to B consequent on C’s introduc-
tion, Cis entitled to a commission; amount or
rate of commission depends on agreement made
between the parties; in the absence of an
agreement, it should be the usual commission
charged in such cases. (2) The commission
is usually a percentage of the purchase price.
....W.C.S.: Kay’s Bookbinding for Begin-
ners (25.), Advanced Bookbinding (35.) and
Cockerell’s Some Notes on Bookbinding (10s.).
.... J.L.: It is translated “The Cloister (or the
Convent) of Monreale” F.J.R.; “Coo-ee”
is purely an Australian word coined to repre-
sent the sound of the distinctive cry uttered
by the aborigines to attract attention
8.0. P.: The wool samples submitted are
three-quarter warp topmakers’ types. (1) 66’s
spinning quality, showing good breeding. (2)
Mixed quality—64’s with some 66’s. (3) 60’s —
staple varies in quality from butt to tip,
apparently owing to change in seasonal con-
ditions. (4) Herman Haege, Ltd., 41 Dixon-
street, Sydney, are dealers in woollen rags,
tailors’ clippings, etc J. 8.: You will have
to write to the Department of Labor, Pre-
toria, Transvaal, South Africa R.R.L.:
A mixed business handling commodity lines,
preferably associated with a sub-newsagency,
gives the best security for a person with a
capital of £400... .R. 8.: The population of
Australia, 1901, was 3,790,710; note issue
same year, £4,064,636 D.M.: / Write As I
Please, by Walter Duranty (125.); Inside Europe,
by J. Gunther (14s. 6d.) A.R.C.: Write to
Watson and Co., 279 Clarence-street, Sydney.
Electric and battery sets are available M. 8.:
(1) Both firms are well established; arrange
trial treatment when in Sydney. (2) No.
Cannot trace advt. (3) Catarrhal stomach
faults demand attention. Diet simply, take
frequent aperient salines, and use glycerine
thymol compound with tepid water (1 in 3)
as a mouth wash and gargle at night. Cleanse
the teeth after each meal... .G.E.: Symptoms
suggest rheumatic fibrositis of toxic origin.
Blood test and X-ray necessary for exact
diagnosis M.G.S.: Skin needs a special
soap; purchase from your chemist. The super-
fatted or olive-oil type is best. In itself
olive oil is a useful cleansing medium; it
soothes the delicate skin that would be irri-
tated by home-made caustic soaps... .D.D.F.:
(1) The range of 16-gauge and 12-gauge shot-
guns is from 60 to 70 yards. There is very
little or no difference between the range of
16-gauge and 12-gauge cartridges. (2) The
number of No. 4 shot in a 16-gauge and 12-
gauge cartridge is 170 to loz. (British cart-
ridges). (3) Simple method of testing the
pattern of a shotgun is with a 30in. circle cut
out of a newspaper at 40 yards J.C.M.K.:
There is no information available regarding
the quantity of whisky consumed in New
South Wales. The estimated consumption of
liquor in New South Wales for the year 1934,
the latest year for which figures are available,
was 716,816 gallons of spirits, 1,559,573 gallons
of wine and 21,573,000 gallons of beer
W.A.R.: (1) Yes. TThe machine will operate
off a 2-h.p. engine satisfactorily. (2) 100.
(3) 3ft. diameter, or larger if a slower speed
than 100 is required. (4) Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney... .J.F.:
Forward specimens to the Government Botanist,
Botanic Gardens, Brisbane, for identification
and report. Small pieces a few inches in
length, with flowers or seeds, should be sent.
When more than one is forwarded, each should
be numbered and a duplicate set kept, when
names and information corresponding to the
numbers will be returned R.C.: A child
legally adopted takes the surname of the adopt-
ing parent, but where there has been no legal
adoption it is entitled to the name of its
natural parents, or, if illegitimate, to the name
of its mother J.R.M.: The Commonwealth
Copyright Act provides that, “if any person
knowingly makes for sale or hire any infring-
ing copy of a work in which copyright sub-
sists, or sells or lets for hire or by way of
trade exposes or offers for sale or hire any
infringing copy of any such work,” he is guilty
of an offence under that Act and subject to a
fine for every copy dealt with in contravention
of the provisions quoted A.M.N.: Write A.
Cohen, hon. sec., Amateur Fishermen’s Assoc.
(N.S.W.), Ltd., 192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
and A. E. Church, hon. sec., N.S.W. Rod
Fishermen’s Society, Bull’s Chambers, 28
Martin-place, Sydney H.L.W.: Sulphur
sprinkled on the wool of sheep would not
have the slightest effect in preventing sheep
blowfly strike C.L.W.: As your sister’s
certificate of title is registered in Victoria it
would be necessary to have the transfer made
there. Write to the Commissioner of Titles,
283 Queen-street, Melbourne, C.l, asking him
to supply you with information as to the steps
to be taken and the cost of the required forms’
stamp duty, etc 8.8. W.: Tar is of little
value as a wood preservative. It is prefer-
able to use hot coal-tar creosote, although the
penetration into hardwoods is small when a
brush treatment is given. Creosote puddled into
the soil surrounding timber acts as a white-
ant deterrent, but must be renewed every two
years L.C.: Write Anthony Hordern and
Sons, George-street, Sydney J.T.H.: Based
on treatment with an African herb, umckalasbo.
Libel case failed in absence of proof. Your
doctor may obtain copy from B.M.A
(Many others mailed.)


B u
IwS?
■Hr
t ii
n
m
m
; . '
I
: : ' •': ':V'- : '-
mmam
;
Ki
<-V:
■
m
ill
r
*
m
mm
: ■
m
m
mm
■::
fe;
i
■H
■
V
fcg4| II .
s! lf: i mm.
■am
mm
'*:
ZM4
:■:■■■ ■
mm
a'-:.-.
m
IllPlii
r ~* j
i
m
% : v;y; ; :;:--
* ‘ * i
:
m
mm
■ ■
I ■
. I m
m
I i
. . iraa
W.M
™^Wi
BM—
——
HHI
.
■■
m
11
■
1
;- : / •■>■-"■
JB#' w ;
mM
■
■ •
■• -vV' ;
■MllliM
mmm
PpPfer^
r
i-,;
»iWfels
■' X" \
m
www,
\W EXPORT
LAGPR
wm
Mi
i -
wm
u
A , ;.. .•:
■I
1—
.
n
,
■
m Em
f ■ :
■i■ ■ ■
Ilifila ip
■ttm
n
u
m
IiIUMHH
H B
■H
H 8
_J
• s / \ ‘
ran
m
mmm.
m
**"'*"" V*" <x <“ y ~
~-./.. v ■:.'vp:'\ -■ ■?■''•
■
...,
■pm
'£■£■* ' . . U 1 I *v ’ _ J
s«
:V.
SBBI
H Wm
. y,- v >
m
w—Si^M'.
HU
,> x ' '''*
B; iScfflnM
■
■
|||^^
a jS,.
MO*
m
11^
" '«
mBB
■
■ :
mm
!»w- t 9o«;•“■••.. ..
’
8 H
mm
■'
wm
TOOHEYS LTD. Standard Brewery, Sydney
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co., Pty.. Ltd., Hobart—Northern
Agencies Pty., Ltd.,
Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Peith.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Before the Victorian Trotting and Rac-
ing Assoc, came under the wing of the
V.R.C. who could have imagined that
£2050 would be distributed at Ascot for
a Saturday meeting in the off season?
Yet this was the case last week-end, and
both, enclosures were packed. Fields,
too, were large. Ascot should rank as
high as Moonee Valley in popularity
when a new grandstand and administra-
tive buildings are erected at the back of
the course. Everything is in readiness
for the transition. Secretary Dyett and
his committee already have expended a
mint of money in that direction. The
down-the-line clubs, Epsom and Men-
tone, also are opening their purse-strings
on improvement schemes. Why should
those in Sydney lag behind?
Only one favorite caught the judge’s
eye in eight races at Ascot; Whernside
rolled home in the last event at 2 to 1,
which wasn’t much of a price to get in
a field of 18. But several of the pre-
vious winners had carried a lot of stable
and public money. The solitary approach
to a “skinner” was Defender in the
second division of the Mallacoota Han-
dicap, for two-year-olds. Defender
started at 12 to 1, but had been backed
down from 20’s.
Harry Cousens trains Defender for
A. G. Newman, a timber merchant.
Newman has a partiality for the progeny
of the Valais stallion Sion. He owns
and races three of them. Defender
measures 17 hands, and promises to
develop into another Phar Lap—for
size. Originally he carried the colors of
Mrs. A. G. Hunter, and was in the stable
of Fred Foulsham, but the massive
chestnut commenced to “make a noise”
on the tracks and was sold. In winning
at Bendigo on Wednesday last Defender
tired alarmingly at the end of five fur-
longs. With Neville Percival up he
never looked like being beaten over five
and a half at Ascot. Which again shows
the queerness of the racing game.
Heroic’s Pride (Heroic —Kalyanni),
who won the first division of the Malla-
coota Handicap, is trained by F. W. Hoy-
sted for Archie Crofts, the owner of
Valiant Chief. He cost 1000 guineas as
a yearling, and is a brother to The Marne.
Hoysted reckons that Heroic’s Pride has
inherent stamina, and on that account
has not hurried him. Voitre broke a run
of 19 successive “outs” by scoring on
Hoysted’s good-looking chestnut. Heroic’s
Pride shaped attractively in beating the
Gilt Edge filly Waltz Time by half a
neck. The favorite, Great Feast, had to
concede the winner 121 b. He deserved
credit for finishing third, half a length
behind Waltz Time.
Seeing that there were 16 starters in
the Trial Hurdle at Ascot it cannot be
said that timber-toppers are scarce in
Melbourne. The field, of course, lacked
quality, but some of them should be
prominent when the Nationals come on
for decision. Boonewa, who fought out
a close finish with Dubup, is a four-year-
old mare by that prince of stayers David.
In its early stages the race was run at
breakneck speed. Boonewa lowered the
course record for two miles over hurdles
from 3min. 3 8 sec. (put up by Lanour in
November, 1934) to 3min. 37sec.
Divisions of the Coliban Trial Handi-
cap went to Kanuri (Eastern Monarch-
Princess Rosalie) and Trimon (Eastern
Monarch—Trifold) respectively. Purana,
a Pantheon mare owned by Frank Mus-
grave, the trainer of Dark Sky, was
favorite for the race won by Kanuri, but
she acquitted herself poorly. Kamiri be-
longs to H. and M. Bourke, of Paken-
ham, who gave the gelding plenty of time
to mature before being raced. Kanuri
may be heard of in better company. After
being hopelessly out of his ground to all
appearances, Trimon obtained a lucky
run on the rails and won comfortably
from Craigavad (brother to Adrift, an
Oakleigh Plate hero) and a 12-to-l
chance, Last Rub, a son of Fourth Hand,
who was imported from England by Lord
Somers when Governor of Victoria.
Fourth Hand is at the Flinders Island
stud of P. G, Hay, the Richmond brewer.
E. (“Darcy”) Eccles landed the £5OO
sprint with Flying Glance, a gelding by
Stare, sire of the champion pony Patsy
Stare, In years gone by Eccles won an
Australian Cup with Wallalo, but he was
unluckily beaten in the Melbourne Cup
with The Cypher (1922) and Yarramba
(1932). At prices ranging down to 8 to
1, “Darcy” tickled up the Ascot book-
makers with Flying Glance, who sur-
mounted difficulties in running to van-
quish the favorite, Gay Pop, by a head.
This event, the Imperial Handicap,
furnished the most exciting finish of the
afternoon, Quasimodo being only half a
head behind Gay Pop.
The luck of W. Tindall, who trains
Quasimodo, changed for the better in the
Ascot Handicap, which he annexed for
Andy Morrow, a Caulfield publican,
with Nellie’s Tip, a five-year-old stallion
by Tippler, Jaded by recent strenuous
outings, the favorite, Aitchengee, never
looked dangerous, Petau ran last, and
James Scobie immediately decided that
his engagements at the Adelaide Cup
meeting should be forfeited.
Scobie is sending no horses to Adelaide
this autumn, but is making the trip by
car in company with C. B. Kellow, the
owner of Hall Mark, who is to have a
shot at the King’s Cup and possibly the
Adelaide Cup. Serlodi, who landed the
King’s Cup in Brisbane last year, figured
in the Ascot Handicap. He was prac-
tically unbacked, and beat only four
horses in a field of 15. Serlodi is by no
means tall, but has a solid and shapely
appearance.
* * * *
If Sydney suburban clubs gave better
prizes they would get larger crowds.
That was indicated at Moorefield, where
the local club put up £450 for a mile
handicap, and was rewarded with an
attendance that exceeded its expecta-
tions, The weather, too, was fine, and
the track fast, which was more than
favorites were.
For the Brighton Handicap, Cabalist,
his 9st, 91b. notwithstanding, was always
favorite. He was never in the hunt,
beating only three home. Randwick
trainer Peter Lawson had Merrie Miller
and Short Wave engaged, and preferred
the former. Short Wave was neglected
at 20 to 1, but, cheered on by the
bookies, he defeated little Nabob (6 to 1)
in the last stride, Bombus, who essayed
to lead throughout, was a length off,
just ahead of Assai, Fireman and High.
Short Wave carries the colors of Dr.
Kirkland, and was ridden by Stan Jones.
Jones in the early stages had his mount
tucked in behind Bombus and Cid; he
drove Short Wave along climbing the
hill, eased him on the turn and waited
patiently for the final run. A capital
piece of horsemanship. Short Wave pre-
viously had failed up to seven furlongs.
As he is by Marconigram, sire of Mara-
bou and Contact, he might develop into
a stayer. Journal fell when going well.
Sydney’s middle-distance horses are a
poor lot just now. Pasha had made hacks
of his field at Warwick Farm—with two
pounds less he was last in the Moore-
field Handicap. In that race Fernclove
set up a big lead, but he tired, and
Sally and El Senorita (10 to 1), two in-
and-out mares who are not much good
at their best, were battling it out at the
Leger. El Senorita prevailed by two
lengths; the favorite, Jovial Son, was a
poor third. The track may not have
suited him.
Mudgee pastoralist A. Irving Cox has
a fine galloper in Grand Boy, a two-
year-old of his own breeding, by Grand
Joy—Rodent. Backed from 5 to 2 to
6 to 4 in the colts and geldings’ division
of the Juvenile Handicap, Grand Boy
donkey-licked Earl Sun and Gangway
at the finish, A half-brother to Pan-
handle, he has now won three races in
succession, and is still capable of im-
provement.
McCarten rode Grand Boy, and there
was a rush to back his mount. Blackbird,
in the fillies’ division. She sweated a
good deal in the enclosure, and from
7 to 4 eased to 7 to 2. Slow away, she
got into lots of trouble, and was last at
the three furlongs; she finished sixth.
Dameitta (6 to 1), trained at Moorefield,
beat Ezra Norton’s Retrieved by a head ;
the squibby Brazen Belle was a poor
third.
Trainer William Kelso gave his six-
year-old stallion Babili a good chance
in the first division of the Flying
Welter, but so few agreed with him that
Babili started at 14 to 1. He got a
passage on the rails turning fob home,
and Jim Munro shot him away ; Prowler
and Orient Orb filled the places. Bronze
God, a brother to Bronze Hawk, carry-
ing the colors of Sydney businessman
“G. Torrance,” won the second division
at sixtetns, sending the bookies home
with bulging bags.
% % * *
Capris seems to be a good mare every-
where but in Melbourne. Her 14 months’
sojourn in that city must have been very
costly to her owner, H. V. Cooper, but,
brought back to Sydney, she won at the
first time of asking, and, going up to
Brisbane, she did it again. And the Bris-
bane race was the Stradbroke Handicap,
and the price 7 to 1. It was really 7 to 1
the field, the ringmen being unexpectedly
generous. Capris was far from being
well placed in the early part, but over
the last furlongs she came with a great
run to relegate High Speech—owned by
W. J. Shean, and ridden by his brother —
to second place ; Heroic Faith Was a good
third. The bonny chestnut mare did her
“six” in Imin. 12|sec.
Queensland has another good staying
colt in Lominga, by Rivoli —Margaret
Morris. He is owned by Miss Stephens
and A. G. Anderson, and they were in
two minds whether or not to withdraw
him from the Q.T.C. St. Leger, on which
he had a mortgage, since success would
involve a 141 b. penalty for the Brisbane
Cup—he was originally handicapped at
7st. 31b. In the end it was decided to
pick up the easy money, and, going out
at 6 to 4 on, Lominga made the St.
Leger a procession. First Buzzard and
Tetupha followed him home at intervals
of four lengths and six lengths.
Lough Neagh had an even easier race
in the King’s Plate, for which he was 9
to 2 on. He had only four opponents,
of whom an old stager named Thought
Reader proved the best, and Spearlensis
the next best; six lengths; six lengths.
From Bst. 121 b. Lough Neagh went up to
9st. 31b. in the Brisbane Cup, for which
there were only nine starters. Considering
that Brown Force had 9st. and Spear
Prince Bst. 121 b., T. J. Brosnan’s horse
was remarkably well treated—“thrown
in” was the expression used by Sydney
men. Lough Neagh won easily,
Ht * * *
“S.G.”: John Norton, founder of
“Terewth,” hated horseracing, but his son
and successor, Ezra, does not share this
aversion. Ezra has paid big prices for
yearlings, but has yet to see his colors
carried to victory, though Retrieved has
got very close on several occasions.
Before the A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes, in
which Retrieved ran second, one of the
sporting sheets which abound in Sydney
wrote: “The Limond filly is owned by
Ezra Norton, and if a fair price is obtain-
able she should ‘go off.’ ” That sort of
thing has been written of scores of owners
and trainers, and as a rule they dismiss it
with a shrug of the shoulders or a “damn
their impudence” ; but John Norton’s son,
grounded in a school of journalism which
prides itself on keeping scrupulously
within the bounds of fair comment and
using expressions to which no curate could
object, was wounded to the soul. He sued
for libel. Defendant newspaper apologised
and offered to pay £2OO damages. Plain-
tiff’s terms were £lOOO for “a suitable
charitable institution” and a “satisfac-
tory” apology “in the leading daily news-
papers and the sporting papers in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand.” So the case
went to court. Verdict for plaintiff:
damages for 14 days; stay of proceed-
ings for 14 days. As £2OO was paid into
court, the verdict, if it stands, won’t carry
costs.
* * * *
Horses trained in Melbourne for G. J.
Barton (M.L.) came under the hammer
last Friday, but only three changed
hands. Worship (Pombal —Homage)
went to a Tasmanian bidder for 70
gns.; Riddle (Baralong—Wilhelmina) was
bought by C. T. Godby for 500 gns.;
Gold Fox fell to W. Jacobson at 160
gns. It was the disqualification of Gold
Fox, together with his trainer and jockey,
at Epsom last month that caused Barton
to break up his Melbourne string.
Desert Chief was passed in at 1050 gns.,
Gay Circle at 850 and Jack Horner at
400. C. Hodson, who prepared Fujisan
for a Doncaster Handicap victory, is in
charge of Barton’s horses.
* * * *
W. W. Hayes, who died at Moonee
Ponds on Friday, was for many years
a bookmaker in Melbourne. He became
chairman of the Victorian Club commit-
tee and succeeded the late Norman Wilson
as secretary, but relinquished the office
in 1930. “Bill” Hayes, like the late
Maurice Quinlan, shouted the odds at
Flemington with a rich brogue in the
days when “The Count” (E. N. Abra-
hams), Oxenham, Sol Green, “Kicker”
Kelly and others laid mammoth wagers.
He was a fine old bhoy.
Footbrawl
It looks as if Melbourne this season
will be more devoted to football than
ever. In the first six V.F.L. matches on
Saturday, attendances totalled 114,000,
and gates yielded £2740 —figures which
must make Sydney Rugby League mouths
water. Thirty thousand saw Carlton
knock spots off Fitzroy ; Carlton, 24 goals
19 behinds ; ’Roy, 13-9. Collingwood had
a fairly easy match, trouncing Hawthorn
by 15-14 to 12-11 ; but the Richmond-
St. Kilda tussle found Richmond only a
point to the good; St. Kilda’s goal-
kicking was uncommonly accurate:
15-17 to 17-4. In the other games
Geelong, South Melbourne and Essendon
were winners, the defeated teams being
respectively Footscray, Melbourne and
North Melbourne. For South, Pratt
kicked his 500th goal—the first V.F.L.
man to do it.
* * He He
Randwick and University are now
the only unbeaten teams in Sydney’s
Rugby Union competition. On Saturday
the Randwick backs and forwards were
much too fast for Northern Suburbs,
25-3; and University shaded Drum-
moyne, 16-15, but Drummoyne was
without Rankin, the State centre. Manly,
though hard pressed by Western Suburbs,
18-16, is finding its form. The halves
have been changed, Wansey coming from
outside centre to five-eighth, and Kelaher
on the wing is at his top again. Parra-
matta defeated Gordon, 17-6; and St.
George, after giving Eastern Suburbs a
scare —it led 6-nil early in the second
half —saw East put on seven tries, 29-6
sjc ❖ 3* %
“North End”: Old-time followers of
Soccer in England may like to shed a
tear over the relegation of Aston Villa
and Blackburn Rovers to the second
division of the League. Villa fqught
desperately to stave off the indignity, and
as the season went on bought crack
players recklessly, dishing out over
£40,000 to no purpose. Rovers seem to
have gone down without a splash. The
two clubs are old originals of British
Soccer. In the days before the rise of
London clubs with great “gates,” which
enable them to skim Britain for the cream
of the professional players, Blackburn
ruled the roost from its Lancashire fast-
nesses, winning the Cup five times in eight
years. The old club’s last win was in
1928-29. Villa had its first win in 1886-87,
and turned the trick on five other occa-
sions.
The N.S.W. eight walked away with the
King’s Cup race at Perth. At the end
of the first mile it had a lead of a length
and a half; at the end of the third mile
it was three lengths in front of South
Aus., with Westralia third and Victoria
last; time, 16min. 22sec. In the sculls
Cecil Pearce beat Langley (W.A.) by 10
lengths ; time, 16min. ssec.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR MENTONE.
Powerscourt Handicap: Car-
narvon ; next, Kitty O’Shea.
Boisdale Welter: Bite Again;
next, Rondeau.
Tinamba Plate: Gay Pop ; next,
Quasimodo.
Tinamba Purse: Restford ; next,
Vim.
FOR RANDWICK.
Novice Handicap: Menu ; next,
Imagine,
Flying Handicap: Cereza ; next,
Thebez.
Barnes Plate: Jovial Son; next,
Irving,
Welter: Young Crusader; next,
Babili.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS."
Firearm Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
I have been appointed Sole Agent In
New South Wales for the Famous B.S.A.
Guns and Rifles.
My new stock of these weapons has just
arrived.
Rjfl M . No. 1, 22 cal. £3/17/6
No. 15, Target, 22 cal. .. £ll/10/-
22 cal. Repeater £7/17/6
Break-action Air Rifle, £3/17/6
No. 1, Air Rifle £5/10/-
No. 2, Air Rifle £6/5/-
(lunst* Hammerless 12 gauge Standard,
B ’Price £l6/10/-
“Wild Fowl,” for Sin. cartridges.
Price £l9/10/-
Standard Ejector £22/10/-
De Luxe Ejector £27/10/-
410, Bolt-action £5/15/-
All Firearms over 50/-, carriage free.
SIL ROHU,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Com —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM*
WADE & DUERDINS. LTD., MELBOURNE
MODEL 54
HIGH-POWER RIFLES.
FURNISHED IN CALIBRES
.22 HORNET AND .220 SWIFT.
Bolt action with speed lock and five-shot magazine. Equipped
with Lyman gold bead ramp front sight and 48W rear sight.
PRICE, £l9/10/- (Freight Paid).
D
New .220 Cal. Swift Super-speed
grain, Hollow-point Bullet. World 1 !
ridge. Penetrates Jin. steel at 14
Stayuless 46
3 fastest cart
feet.
.22 HORNET
perWspeed
,46 Grain Staynle»» Hollow Point
Bullet. Super Speed
PRICES, per 100—
.22 Hornet 19/6
.220 Swift 43/6
' i ■ Freight Extra.
•soixsmya
CARTRIDGE.
.22 Hornet ..
.220 Swift ..
Muzzle Velocity,
Feet per Sec.
2625
4140
Muzzle Energy,
Foot-pounds.
705
1750
f Trajectories in Inches— N
100 yards'Height 200 Yards Height
at 50 Yards. at 100 Yards.
0.75 3.75
' 0.4 1.7
■ ■
COWLES & DUNN,
’Phone: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SADDLER-
MADE
HORSE
RUGS
JbMmk
FIT BETTER AND
ARE BETTER MADE
A "Stays-on” Rug
(as illustrated),
made of super
Bleached Flax
Canvas and lined
with fleecy wool, is the best rug
made. It lasts for six or more
seasons, making it the
CHEAPEST IN THE LONG RUN.
No. A “Stays-on” Rug, sft. 6in., 42/-;
sft. 9in., 43/6; 6ft., 44/6.
Write for 1936 Horse Rug List,
Samples of Canvas and Linings will
be sent on request.
WALTHER & STEVENSON,
LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who
quote you price for the original.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
As a rule, featherweight boxing form
in Australia is decidedly superior to
middleweight and heavyweight form, but
Sydney people with a taste for seeing re-
presentative featherweights in action have
to go to the subbubs. Blandon, who has
beaten “fedders” graded much higher in
American publications than some of the
pugs brought out to meet men like
Palmer, does his boxing nowadays in
places like Carlton. There on Wednes-
day night he risked his Australian title
against a youth named Anderson. He
stopped Anderson in the seventh round.
* * :1c *
An American writer, J. C. Furnas, who
is writing-up this country for American
periodicals, says Australia is known in the
U.S.A. largely for the wonderful boxers
who descended on it from these parts
between 40 and 50 years ago, W. A.
Brady mentions some of them in remi-
niscences he is contributing to the “Satur-
day Evening Post.” He admits that Slavin
would have knocked the stuffing out of
John L. Sullivan if Slavin, not Corbett,
had got the fight for the heavyweight
championship in 1891 ; and he suggests
that Corbett always knew that Fitzsim-
mons was his master. Fitz is described
by Jim Savage, an old-time fighter, in an
article ghosted for the “Post,” as “the
greatest fighter I ever saw.” And Savage
saw them all.
Footbrawl
“Stand Off”: In spite of vigorous pro-
tests by members with some respect for
Rugby Union rules, N.S.W.
council has reinstated a record
horde of ex-League players; 15
were put through in one batch.
One League player was admitted
provided he could prove he had
not been paid for playing. Rule
H expressly states that the mere
act of playing with any profes-
sional club, whether money or
compensation is involved or
not, is an act of professionalism.
No wonder the N.S.W. Rugby Union
has taken to omitting the rules as to
professionalism from its annual.
“Amateur Pro.”: A section of theN.S.W.
Rugby Union Council which is opposed
to the wholesale admission of professional
footballers to the Union ranks is drafting
a memorandum to the English R.U., to
which the State body is affiliated, report-
ing the curious laxity towards profes-
sional football which now seems to be
increasing in that body. If the matter
came before the E.R.U. officially there
is no doubt that N.S.W. whitewashes
would be asked to explain why they are
not obeying the anti-professional rules of
the Rugby Union. As it is, the memoran-
dum is likely to be regarded as non-
official and no action taken.
Jfc * * $
“Tenakoe”: Two of the most import-
ant M.L. Rugby Unions have objected
strongly to the action of the English
R.U. in permitting the Australian and
M.L. Unions to adopt the Rugby League
rule as to kicking into touch. Although
the M.L. Union ratified the change at the
annual meeting, Wellington and Otago
opposed it. Otago says it will adhere to
the old rule at all costs,
* * * *
“Gate”; The Rugby League, fired by
accounts of the progress of amateur
Rugby in the U.S.A., is casting longing
eyes in that direction. Expensive
attempts to spread the professional game
beyond Queensland and N.S.W. have
failed, and it is doubtful whether any
success can be obtained in America, Pro-
fessionalism is barely able to exist in
Uncle Sam’s country, and any game the
playing of which would debar his athletes
from the Olympic and other important
sporting fixtures is not likely to be wel-
comed with anything but the axe.
* * * *
“Gate”: Rugby League followers in
Sydney are perturbed over the poor form
shown by clubs and individuals this
season, a falling-off reflected in attend-
ances. The weakness is mostly evident in
the forwards. Unless it is corrected be-
fore the Englishmen land, with a forward
selection designed to batter its way to
victory, League prestige and League
“gates” will suffer.
The same falling-off is to be noticed
in the Rugby Union. Last season the
Maoris gave the flashy forward play
which has characterised our game of late
a fearful showing-up. Newspaper reports
which award all the credit to forwards
who dodge their job of shoving in the
scrum and battling in the rucks to do
circus tricks in the open are largely
responsible for this degenerate tendency.
Improvement is imperative before the All-
Blacks arrive this year.
He sji tk :jc
“Fitzcray”: The stiffening up of the
rules as to inter-State poaching of players
has caused V.F.L. scouts to turn their
attention to the Association. There is sup-
“This is your last warning, Flanagan —I'll send you off if you don't keep
the game clean."
posed to be some sort of gentleman’s
agreement between the League and the
Assoc, covering the subject, but it seems
to have been forgotten. Association ranks
have been mercilessly raided for some
time past, and the long-suffering elder
sister seems too overcome even to protest.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The rush by V.F.L. agents
to snavel Association players has been
so fierce that a lad from Northcote found
to his amazement that he had been signed
up by St. Kilda and Collingwood. The
League permit committee will have to
play the part of Solomon and adjudi-
cate on the matter before the young man
will be able to play with any club. An-
other stalwart had signed up with one
League club when its rivals discovered
he had taken up his abode by mistake in
their territory. They are rushing the
League authorities for a have-his-carcass.
“Everton”: The final for the Associa-
tion Cup at Wembley emphasised the
curious difference between League and
Cup football. Sheffield United, defeated
—rather luckily—by Arsenal, is a second-
division team in the League premiership.
Arsenal has been League champion again
and again. Yet the London club won the
Cup once before only; United, one
of the oldest Soccer clubs in Britain,
has bagged it four times, the last
as long ago as 1899. This year the
Cup winner was well down in the League
premiership, which was won by Sunder-
land. Sunderland employs mostly local
talent; Arsenal thinks nothing of giving
£lO,OOO or so for a forward.
* * *
“Bolton Wanderer”: One reason for
the continued popularity of the British
Association Cup competition is that it is
a knock-out go, no club getting a second
chance, as in the long-drawn-out points
battle of the League. In spite of the
prestige of the half-dozen big London
clubs with their hoggins o’ brass, the
real support for the final comes from
the North. Of the 93,000 at Wembley
this year, over 60,000 travelled from the
North Country by train or char-a-banc.
Worth noting, too, that for years after
its inception in 1871 the Cup was a
monopoly of the amateurs. The last
amateur team to win it was the Old
Etonians in 1881-82.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Jachris”: Perrier was third in the
qualifying rounds for the Scottish
amateur at Carnoustie, but lost to one
Johnston in the first of the match-play
rounds after taking it to the 21st.
Johnston himself was outed in the fourth
round. The Manly youth hopes to do
better in the British amateur event, and
the milder climate —he’s still feeling the
cold in the north —should help.
* t- * *
“Gleneagles”: Jim Perrier declares
himself greatly taken with a method of
scoring employed in the Deeside open
tournament, his first competition in Scot-
land. A marker is sent out with each
pair and scores for both. Players are
relieved of the responsibility of watching
the opponent’s score, and are free to con-
centrate on their game. The marker
records each stroke on the card as it is
taken, and adds them up after each hole.
The rules of golf do not permit this
method, but' the difficulty is got over by
the standing permission to committees
managing tournaments to make special
local rules for special occasions.
$ ❖
“Woogaroo”: Queensland golfers are
pleased with the prospect of a goodly
batch of N.S.W. and Victorian players
turning up for the State championships
next month. Among the N. S. Welshmen
will be skipper Rundle, of Royal Sydney,
a former chairman of the Australian Golf
Union —a vigorous attempt to enlist his
sympathy for Queensland’s claim to the
holding of a national championship on a
Brisbane course will certainly be made —
Ruwald, McKay, Waterson and Dr. Nigel
Smith. Victorians will include Ryan and
Whitton. Southern professionals have
hung back so far, though prize-money
will be increased this year.
* * * *
“Baffy”: Some little time ago Sarazen
issued a challenge to Australian golf
professionals to meet him in a match for
a stake during his tour of Australia.
The offer was not then rushed, but
Holder, assistant professional at The
Lakes club (N.S.W.), has £5O to say he
can down the Yankee. Holder is one of
the best of the “coming on” players ; last
season he cleaned up the competitions
for assistants. In the Tasmanian tourney
he played 19 rounds for an average of
71|, winning three times outright and
filling two second places and a third.
* * $ *
“Divot Digger”: At long last the
N.S.W. golf heads have decided to
return to the former method of quali-
fying rounds followed by match play for
the State amateur championship, which
begins on July 3 on the Australian
course at Kenso. Thirty-two players
will qualify over 36 holes stroke ; the
match play will also be over the 36
instead of 18, as in the past. Handicaps
will be raised from 7 to 9. The change
is for the better. It will increase entries
by giving the player who has made a
bad start a better chance of making a
recovery.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: It seems likely that
Perry and Hughes will again be England’s
doubles pair to defend the Davis Cup.
They won the Czech doubles at
Prague and Perry added the singles, beat-
ing Hecht by three sets to one.
* * *
“Cut Shot”; The Australian Davis
Cuppers have been giving exhibition
matches in the U.S.A., with an occasional
local champion as an opponent to vary
the monotony of internecine strife. All


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN JELLY PREPARA-
TIONS AND METHOD OF PREPARING
JELLIES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
7581/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Basse!
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 586 of 1936.
BETWEEN LLOYD ARTEIUR GAINEY of
Gravesend Laborer Petitioner
And ANNIE HANNAH ELIZA GAINEY
(formerly Annie Hannah Eliza Tomkins)
his wife Respondent.
TO ANNIE HANNAH ELIZA GAINEY late
of Guerie near Wellington in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LLOYD
ARTHUR GAINEY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-first day of July next and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application vo the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of April, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
W. I. CLEAVES, Solicitor for Petitioner,
Yallaroi Shire Chambers, Hope Street,
Warialda.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 626 of 1936.
BETWEEN FLORENCE GERTRUDE
DUTTON Petitioner
And SIDNEY JOHN DUTTON Respon-
dent.
TO SIDNEY JOHN DUTTON late of Stepney
in the State of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
GERTRUDE DUTTON has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-fourth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed hereih may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of April,
1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
ONLY
mm
>S>X-
iipp-il
11 ( > \
Al
or/o
fi
:m
®T
m
V M
cv
to the R*A«C «A • Conditions and superv
ge Road Speed of 31*33 Miles Per Hour
m
m
AVERAGE FUEL CONSUMPTION BEING 28.12 MILES PER G
...»
s-->i» <■ V V X ' '
M
mm
iMzmm
■ t r
/ ' ''J
/ I
POWFM
m
Sir?
It#
ass&s
m-
WWAJJ^I
I
c-S27t>
This Oldsniobile did 2ft.12 miles per gallon !
Further proof of the fiJreater Economy of
are reported to be showing good form.
The partnering of Quist and Crawford
in the doubles matches suggests that the
pair will be together in the Cup fixture.
Americans have also been giving exhi-
bition gallops. One feature of these has
been the defeat of the first doubles pair,
Allison and Van Ryn, by Mako and
Budge; the national champions were
walloped three times in a fortnight.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Germany had an
easy trot with Spain in the opening round
of the Davis Cup tourney, European
zone, winning the two first singles and the
doubles. Von Cramm and Henkel won
the singles in straight sets from Alonso
and Maier, and the baron partnered Lund
in outing Maier and Blanc in the doubles.
Whichever team wins in America, the
Germans will prove a stiff hurdle in the
inter-zone final to decide which team
shall challenge the Cup holders.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The forecasts of athletic
experts are like jockeys’ tips—more often
than not they come unglued. However,
Tilden has prophesied the result of the
coming Davis Cup tourney, and can see
nothing but Germany, “even if the
American boys are lucky enough to get
by the Australians, which I do not think
they can.” He says nothing about Eng-
land, evidently realising that all depends
in that case on Perry’s return to his best.
* $ sic *
“Top Spin”: The Australia-America
Davis Cup tie may not be played on the
grass courts at Germantown after all.
Weather conditions in the U.S.A. always
make it hard for grass to be brought to
perfection so early as May, and this year
the severe and prolonged winter has
added to the difficulty. If hard courts
are used, much depends on the type. If
they are rolled clay, such as Australian
players are well used to, there should be
no trouble. On slow and doughy patent
courts it may be another story.
“Wanderer’s”; After winning their first
Test match in South Africa at Durban,
the Englishwomen’s tennis team climbed
up to Johannesburg, where they were
beaten by the local girls and the high alti-
tude which so affects visiting athletes,
Our cricketers found this a handicap,
especially those who had to do any run-
ning, while the unfortunate Wallabies
could hardly raise a walk before their
first game on the lofty Rand was half
OV er.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”- The tan de over the
"f“ I” r=
. Th n , • r ;i
‘, , ,
SSS
throwing the selectors to the wolves £or
doing the job they were instructed to do.
F° r instance, it was insisted that no one
should be _ selected whose recent per-
formances in Australia did not approxi-
mate to Olympic records. As the team
stands now, only about half a dozen of
those chosen measure up to that require-
ment,
' ■ * . . .
The Gaffer : An enterprising gentle-
man from America has visited Australia
to arrange for a Pacific tour of 50 Yan-
kee athletes—amateurs presumably. The
team will include topnotchers in every
line of sport, including two American
football teams, which will give exhibition
matches and engage in Rugby duels with
locals. The tour will include M.L., the
Philippines, China and Japan, and will
cost £6OOO or so. As far as M.L. and
Australia go, the promoters will have little
chance of getting their money back,
Gates for athletics in Australasian centres
barely pay for ground costs, while the
football notion is too fantastic for words.
“Tenth Slip”: The admission by the
Maoriland Cricket Council that the tour
of the Marylebone team had let it down
over £2OOO has come as a shock. It was
thought that the takings of the team in
Australia, which were handed over, less
expenses, to the All-Blacks, would reduce
the deficit, but this is not the case. And
Australia sent across £1721!
* * * *
“Chain Gang”: The Board of Control
has added another legiron to the equip-
ment of Australian representative
cricketers. Cricketers who are profes-
sional journalists have hitherto been per-
mitted to write on games, though non-
scribbling members of the team have
been banned from doing so. Now the
professional may not write at all of Test
matches and only of other games if he
holds a certificate from the Board, which
may be withdrawn at any time. Further,
no player may broadcast descriptions or
comment on any first-class match (Shef-
field games included), on the prospects of
selection of players or the personnel of
selected sides.
* $ * «
“Five Ways”: Christy has thrown up
his job as coach to the Q.C.A., though his
three years’ engagement was not up until
November. Sending to South Africa for
a coach when there were dozens of better-
qualified Australians, some unemployed,
was a proceeding characteristic of
Queensland cricket control, but I daresay
Christy had trying experiences. His Eng-
lish predecessor Ducat also got fed up,
and shook the grass seeds of the B.C.G.
out of his flannels before his term
expired.
$ $ * - *
“Bramall Lane”: The Marylebone club
is out to shake up English county cricket.
Captains and umpires have been in-
structed to cut to the knuckle delays due
to rain or allegedly bad light. Wickets
are to be dried by natural or artificial
means as quickly as possible, and appeals
for fading light, etc., are to be dis-
couraged. Though the M.C.C. doesn’t
say so, there is no doubt that the fiddle-
faddle attendant on so much first-class
cricket is putting the public off the game.
After all it is the public that keeps the
game alive, and it pays to see cricket and
not to watch captains playing at League
of Nations diplomacy.
* * * *
“Third Base”; Once more there are
rumors of a visit from an American base-
ball team, in this case a side from Santa
Barbara College, California. The visitors
are expected in August-Sepfember and,
starting at Sydney, will play at least 15
matches. The tour will take place during
the “long” vacation, so there should be
no hitch in the matter of players getting
away. The organiser in California is
“Spud” Harder, who was here with the
Stanford Uni. team in 1928.
* * * *
“Splash”: The ruling of the Amateur
Swimming Association that amateurs
may not compete against professional
beach inspectors in surf races is to be
questioned before the Federation Inter-
nationale de Natation by the surfing
organisations. The matter will come up
at a meeting to be held at Berlin on
August 12, and 45 countries, all members
of the Federation, are being circularised.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: All being well, Walter
Lindrum will defend his world’s title and
the Billiards Association Cup in Adel-
aide this September. He is trying to
enlist the help of the centenary com-
mittee in bringing out one or two of the
leading English players. Joe Davis
has already said he will be coming after
the Cup, and it seems hardly worth while
calling on any other Briton, so far ahead
of all the others in scratch matches is he.
McConachy will be there, but young
Horace Lindrum will be an absentee —
he is staying in England until next year.


FD
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FD
&ERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PJY.
LTD.
CREDO— We believe in the Gerrard system and in the goods
we sell; the sound value of the continuous service that follows
every sale. We believe this business grows each year because, of
the sound, honest basis on which it builds; and because of the
recognition of true economy by users throughout Australia.
|[GERRARD||
Ibjfßf Dulßindiji
Melbourne, Sydney, Briibene, Torrn'vllle, Perth: AdeU.de, Hobart
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Japan and Ottawa
The trend of affairs lately has been
noteworthy for a series of disconcerting
bumps. Improvement in conditions goes
on in many directions, but weak spots m
our economy show up. Government
finance breaks into the picture, always
unpleasantly; Canberra trade policy is a
matter for grave concern to many manu-
facturers, and even to exporters, particu-
larly those land men who look to the
Japanese market. Discriminatory action
against Japanese imports has been sug-
gested, and Japan, which buys much
more from Australia than we buy from
Japan, is threatening to shift a large part
of its patronage to S’Africa.
The Ottawa agreements were some-
thing which Australia’s representatives
entered into without a great deal of pre-
vious public debate. To what extent our
trade with foreign countries must be
modified under these contracts is uncertain.
Parliamentary discussion has been unen-
lightening, except that it has revealed
that the Canberra Government chooses
to place all responsibility for interpreta-
tion on the Tariff Board.
One result of the tariff policy has been
an unsatisfactory trade balance. Another
has been the threat of reprisals by Japan.
The Japanese buy from us merely as a
matter of convenience ; at the same time,
we should consider very seriously whether
our wool is so indispensable to them that
we can afford to impede their imports
further in a discriminatory manner.
Quite apart from a question of loyalty,
every Australian will give preference to
British goods, all other things being
equal. Many will make a substantial
concession, recognising that cheap labor
and currency manipulation have facili-
tated the Japanese onslaught on world
trade. Another thing is that Britain
gives us very much appreciated prefer-
ences. But there is a medium in
all things, and the interpretation and
carrying out of the Ottawa agree-
ments demand greater intelligence and
foresight than have been forthcoming.
Wheat was steady around 3s. 9d. on
trucks, Williamstown, towards the end
of last week.
* * * *
Brisbane’s wool sales last week were
the final ones of importance for the
season. Good bidding was in evidence,
and prices were firm. Sydney quotations
for April kept around the March level,
which were the highest since April, 1934.
* * * *
At the end of December 459,000
people were directly employed in Aus-
tralian factories —a record. In 1932 the
figure was 337,000. For that year fac-
tory output was £282,000,000. In 1932-
33 it had lifted to £304,000,000, to
£330,000,000 in 1933-34, and to
£360,000,000 in 1934-35. In 1928-29
(peak year) the figure was £420,000,000.
Considering the fall in values, lower
wages, etc., the 1928-29 volume of fac-
tory activity seems to have been fully
regained. It is more widely spread, how-
ever. Some industries (such as cement)
have a good way to go before they reach
pre-depression production.
* %
The £1 ord. shares in Woolworths, Ltd.,
the parent co. of the Commonwealth-
wide chain-store organisation, sold at
£8 in Melbourne last week. The co.
showed earnings of 30.4 p.c. on ordi-
nary capital in its last term and paid 17£
p.c. The immediate yield to the present
buyer is 2,2 p.c. By reason of lavish
bonus issues, last year’s 17£ p.c. is equal
to nearly 87 p.c. on the ord. register as
it stood before the gift issue of 1931.
The sharemarket obviously looks for
more largesse in the future. Through
the Victorian subsidiary the Edments
chain-store organisation is to be brought
into the fold.
Shares in Woolworths, both the parent
and trans-Tasman subsidiary, are very
popular in Maoriland, which relishes a
Stock Exchange flutter with a zest second
to none. Recently attention has been
directed to Coles, which doesn’t operate
beyond the Tasman, and M.L, dealings
have been a factor in the recent rise and
fall in this scrip. But Maorilanders will
learn that the Coles organisation is more
of a steady plodder than Woolworths,
though its profits have been stepping up
strongly—lB.7 p.c. on ord. capital last
term. It has 800,775 £1 ords. to attend
to, as against 421,969 in the case of Wool-
worths. The Coles co. has done very little
capital-watering as a public concern.
“ Don't knock ’im orf , Joe, As long as 'e's got ’old of y' 'e cant bark!"
The industrial sharemarket at the be-
ginning of last week was generally very
firm, with some outstanding rises, notably
Australian Glass. This stock rose to
945., but later reacted to 88s. 6d. B.H.
Prop, went to 61s. 3d., Adelaide Steam
recovered to 325,, David Jones to
455. 6d., Henry Jones to 415., Meggitt to
255. 6d., and British Tobacco to 41s. 3d.
In B. 25/3/’36 it was suggested, after
the market reaction about that time,
that prices for industrials would swing
into balance again. This, many sound
stocks have already done. Some more
speculative issues are taking a longer
time to come back.
Cement cos. continue to be weak in the
sharemarket. Kandos 16s. shares sold at
235. last week, and Australian Cement
£1 scrip at 295. 6d. N. S. Wales gas
shares paying only 6 p.c. are much higher
than this class of scrip. The two princi-
pal Australian cement cos. are paying
10 p.c. divs. at present; but one of
them averaged only 5.2 p.c. for the
five 1931-35. Associated Port-
land Cement (Eng.) recently paid 20 p.c.
to ord. shareholders. A Government
which speaks in horrified tones about the
overcapitalisation of the cement indus-
try should just consider for a moment
the state of the railways owned by its
fellow-Governments. Overcapitalised and
practically insolvent, they are able to
function on their present basis only
through the strangulation of competing
motor transport.
* * * *
The Australian Glass Co. balances on
March 31; it has had a strong market
for its ord. shares recently. Accounts
will be published some time next month.
The co. has more idle cash than it can
employ in its own business. It held a
mortgage over McArthur’s Trust build-
ing in King-street, Sydney, and is to take
up 25,000 ords. in Associated Pulp and
Paper, the new Tasmanian co.
Though Glass is an extremely reliable
stock, with 930,478 ords. out, on which
13 p.c. was paid last year, it requires big
dividends or bonuses to justify the
present price, which gives a yield of just
under 3 p.c. If the co. raised its effective
dividend, by bonus issue or otherwise, to
20 p.c. on the existing ord. capital, the
return to present investors would be a
little over 4.5 p.c. There is undoubtedly
much inner strength in book values.
Plant figured at £451,364 in 1924 ; it was
down to £286,801 last balance day.
Following registration of the Tas.
paper co. in Melbourne, another left the
stocks in Canberra—this one has a simi-
lar nominal capital (£3,000,000), but its
place of operations is to be Collingwood
Bay, New Guinea, The name is British
Australian Pulp and Paper Co. P. R.
Higgins (of Standard Cement, N.S.W.) is
chairman, and all of the first capital issue
of £1,000,000 is “reserved for overseas
interests, who are behind the enterprise.”
Fine papers are to be made from kuru
kuru grass, and an output of 60,000 tons
a year has been mentioned.
■i" ; i” *l*
Dealings in Associated Pulp and Paper
“rights” started ih Melbourne upon the
issue of the prospectus, though who is
entitled to the scrip hasn’t yet been
actually defined. On Wednesday a
premium of 9d. was paid, which dropped
to 6d. on Thursday.
:J: * * *
A striking feature of the latest liquor
figures is the increased consumption of
wine. In Australia, spirit , consumption
per head has fallen from .50 galldns in
1918 to .21 gallons last year ; beer from
11.92 gallons to 8.68 gallons; but wine
has increased from .5 gallons to -S2
gallons.
* * * *
The trade balance is of such political
importance these days that progress re-
ports are rushed out at Canberra for
periods suited to the expediency of the
moment. It has been announced that on
April 18 the credit for the current year
reached £21.6 millions sterling—an in-
crease of about a million. within the
month, as against a jump of about
£10,000,000 in the preceding two months.
May and June trading will probably re-
duce the credit. Exports are already con-
tracting sharply.
#
Gibson and Howes, the Bundaberg (Q.)
sugargrowing and -milling concern, re-
ports a profit of £28,000, up £6540. An
extra 19,800 tons of cane was crushed,
but a big factor in the improved profit
was an extra Bs. 9d. per ton received for
the export surplus, which netted about
£8 (Aust.) a ton. The Australian price is
fixed at around £22. The harvest was
good ; the co., following the disastrous
1932 drought, has done a lot of work on
an irrigation scheme.
:J< 4: ❖ %
Ora Banda Amalgamated’s first div. (a
shilling) didn’t brighten the demand for
the shares. There are 400,000 issued (paid
to 55.); the market reckons they are
worth par now, though they were once
over 30s. The mine is at Grant’s Patch
(W.A.), and principal reason for the rise
and fall in the price of the scrip was that
the ore occurs in discontinuous lenses,
which makes mining both uncertain and
costly. Ore reserves at October 31 were
only 14,470 tons, though they have in-
creased. Recoveries have averaged
between lldwt, and 12dwt.
“Ferric”: It would be difficult to drop
on more enticing stuff than the iron ore
of Yampi Sound (W.A.), just about to
be operated on by British interests with a
view to supplying the Japanese market.
Black and shining, and almost as heavy
as pig-iron, it looks, in mining parlance,
“almost good enough to eat.” Running
an average 69.6 per cent iron, with
silicon, sulphur and phosphorus elements
exceedingly low, and with a visible
supply of over twenty million tons, all
above water, such ore is capable of bring-
ing about a return of the Bessemer acid
converter process, which is the cheapest
and fastest method of turning out bulk
steel yet invented —it has fallen into
disuse owing to the exhaustion of the
Old-World pure-ore supplies. With such
ore at their command the Japanese will
probably let up on their scouring of
marine yards and mine scrapheaps.
Hitherto, the sole use of the Yampi
deposits has been to supply ballast to
pearling luggers for the run empty to
Fremantle. Being so heavy, it suited such
admirably.
* * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australian Cement shares weakened follow-
ing reports of the probable Senate attitude re-
garding the wiping out of duties on the British
product. The industrial sharemarket was
generally firmer, though a trifle bumpy.
Broken Hill stocks, ex rights to the new
paper co.’s issue, were weaker. Mt. Lyell
firmed to over 255. Gold shares were de-
pressed. In spite of recent developments with
regard to Placer and the new capital issue,
Upper Watuts slipped back to 7s. on Friday.
Irowats, up to 4s. 3d. on Tuesday, were below
4s. on Thursday.
Bendigo mining shows reacted. Central
Nell Gwynne, Ironbark and others’' were
weaker. Cocks Eldorado kept over 125., and
Wattle Gully was steady around 18s.
Cuthbert’s Misima strengthened to 11s. sd.
following the announcement of the first div. —
6d. Fuis were anything but strong.
Directors of Oceanic Gold, which chartered
the Joseph Conrad to seek an undisclosed
goldmine in a tropic isle of unpublished name,
state that T. J. Shepheard has reported that
the area inspected by him was “very dis-
appointing.”


BAKERS
3326—Bakers Best
Quality Dressmaker’s
Scissor, 7in. overall, 6/6.
FINE QUALITY NICKELPLATED TWEEZERS
T6O
2/6
T6l
3/-
T 62
2/6
T 63
2/6
A
A
T 64
2/6
Postage 3d. each extra.
Old English Pattern and Bakers Best Quality
A 1 Silverplated. Six each Table, Soup,
Dessert Forks. 36 pieces in all.
Dessert and Tea Spoons; six each Table and
£6/3/6 per set.
Repairs of all
kinds executed
to Scissors,
Knives, Razors,
etc.
Cash with order
and postage
extra on
repairs.
li: Vr.jMO bame«
;• Sumter ST.-
'S. SYBHfiV'
1 0 3 2-
Badger
S h a v i ng
Brush.
Small,
12/6;
Med ium,
Strong Finger or Toe
Nail Clipper, 6/6
each.
Bakers 6-blade Knife for your
country friend, 19/6 each.
831—Bakers Best Quality Old-style Steel Carver and Fork, square
xylonite handles. Per pair, 28/6.
HUUSEWJFEIS? SCISSOHS'OUT.F.IT
m
--■iFi.i
Wul M Q i E AKEUs
A Gift for Mother—Four pairs
best quality English-made
Scissors in handmade leather
case, 37/6.
With two pairs only, 18/6.
Three-piece Stainless Steel Carver
Set in case, 35/-.
Tar Brands—l letter, 13/6.
Postage, \/~ extra.
699—Bakers Best Quality Stainless Hand-ground Table and Dessert
Knives. Oval xylonite handles. Table Knives, per half dozen, 27/6.
Dessert Knives, peY half dozen, 25/-.
Boy’s Best Quality Camping Knife, sin. blade, with
strong leather sheath, 8/6 each.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
SEND YOUR ORDERS BY MAIL.
ALL GOODS DESPATCHED PROMPTLY.
Brass Syringe, best quality, tinlined for holding I pint liquid,
28/6 each, Postage 1/- extra.
rig
No. 15—Dagging
Outfit for carrying on
saddle. Shear, Stone and
Bottle, 23/6.
Postage 1/3 extra.
916 w
Boundary Rider’s Outfit,
fitted with plain rosewood
handle knife and steel,
19/6.
Postage 1/- extra.
E g '
Hi
Man’s iwo-biacied Stag Haft
Pocket Knife, 5/6 each.
O
060—Motorist’s Camping
Knife contains two blades,
screwdriver, bottle-o pen e r,
wrench, tin-opener, gimlet,
leather gouge, corkscrew,
feelers and file, 22/6 each.
Woman’s Neck-trimming Clipper,
very fine cut, 7/6 each.
Bakers Tally Counter for
Sheep. Counts from 1 to 9999.
19/6 each.
Postage 6d. extra.
EARMARKERS AND FIRE
BRANDS MADE TO ORDER
W. JNO. BARER LTD.,
SUPPLIERS OF THE BEST CUTLERY SINCE 1888.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE. DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Three Kids and a Queen”
Jane Mary Baxter (May Robson), the
world’s wealthiest spinster, whose sharp
tongue and short temper are the terror of
her household, is thrown out of her coach
(no motor-cars for her) when the horses
bolt through a park. She is discovered
unconscious by the three foster children of
Tony, a barber (Henry Armetta), and,
unaware of her identity, they take her to
their home in their “flivver.” There she
is cared for, while a hue and cry rages,
it having been assumed she has been kid-
napped. When her identity becomes
known to the family they want her to
go, but she flatly refuses, as her nephew
has obtained a court order committing
Robert Donat in “The Ghost Goes West,”
at Sydney State.
her to a mental hospital. Under the
threat of exposing the good-hearted
family as kidnappers, she stays on and
bullies the family, who, despite her
tirades, develop affection for the old
woman. As the eldest boy says: “The
old battleaxe gets under yer skin, some-
how ! ”
Then she is kidnapped in earnest by
gangsters, to be thrillingly rescued by the
family, who get the court order quashed
and presumably reap great prosperity
ever afterwards.
So long as May Robson is masterful
and giving all hands verbal lashings she is
fine ; but the tears soon commence to fall,
and sentiment is laid on with a trowel.
Henry Armetta as a harassed and
excitable barber has a good part, and the
kids act intelligently. To the extent that
laughs outnumber sobs, the picture is
good entertainment. At Sydney Capitol.
“Silly Billies”
Also at the Capitol. Typical Wheeler
and Woolsey, the comedians going back
to the early Californian gold-rush days
for their setting.
“Doc” Pennington (Robert Woolsey),
a “painless” dentist, and his chloroform-
holder, Roy Banks (Bert Wheeler), buy
a location at Little Town, where they
propose depriving the citizenry of both
good and bad teeth, according to the
luck of the victims. But next day a
completely evacuated town denotes that
the agent they considered a fool has sold
them a large pup, the entire population
having gone gold-seeking. When a prairie
ship clatters in carrying a dead man with
a gory note saying that the gold-seekers
are being betrayed to the “Injuns,” W.
and W. rush forth to give warning.
Weird adventures befall them, and they
narrowly escape one burning-at-the-stake
and two hangings. In a final pitched
battle with the redskins the gold-seekers
run out of ammunition, and the “Doc”
anaesthetises the galloping savages by
catapulting chloroform-soaked sponges at
them.
The usual satirical backlash comes
when, after the victory, one of the camp
kids socks “Doc” in the neck with a
stone which contains the yellow metal.
It transpires that the boy brought a
supply of the stones from Little Town
for shooting in his catapult, and a wild
scramble back to the deserted village
ensues.
The film is bright without being up-
roariously funny.
“Son of a Sailor”
Joe E. Brown is a gob in an aeroplane
carrier ship—“ Handsome” they call him —
and his abilities as a liar land him into
a series of thrilling adventures. Luck
sticks to him throughout. He survives d
fight in an aeroplane, escaping by para-
chute, only to fall down the funnel of
an old cruiser that is being used as a
target by naval bombing ’planes. When
the cruiser is blown skyhigh he is safe
inside a garbage-can, in which he floats
till rescued. He then receives commenda-
tion and promotion on parade for his
part in the capture of a foreign spy, and
in return promises his admiral that he
will in future curb his soaring imagina-
tion. Two seconds later he is seen
romancing with greater zest than ever.
Slapstick farce, most of it, but Brown’s
characteristic type of humor gets full
play, and for a change the audience
chuckles with him and not at him. At
Sydney Lyric.
“Brides Are Like That”
Introduces one of the most persuasive
and eloquent talkers yet heard from the
screen, Ross Alexander, who, as young
Bill McAllister, talks an engaged couple
out of their engagement, talks himself
into matrimony, talks his way through,
under or over all the troubles a marriage
without money or employment brings in
its train, and finally, having invented a
cheap way of preserving apples, talks his
way into half-ownership of two flourish-
ing businesses. Anita Louise is comely
and natural as a young bride; Richard
Jean Parker in “The Ghost Goes West.”
Purcell is a serious-minded young doctor
to the life and Joe Cawfhorn is at his
irascible voluble best as Bill’s wealthy
uncle. At Sydney State.
“A Night at the Opera”
Groucho, Harpo and Chico Marx pro-
vide comedy and burlesque, with a wide-
awake producer providing some effect of
unity for what might have been a series
of jerky spasms, with the help of a variety
of backgrounds and hundreds of supers.
Groucho is a bogus entrepreneur. His
brothers, accompanied by lovelorn tenor
Ricardo (Allan Jones), cross the Atlantic
in a cabin trunk. Their adventures are
fast and furious, and the dialogue is pep-
pery.
Among the pranks of the woolly-
headed, pop-eyed brother, who carries
out his dumb show with grotesque inten-
sity, are feats of crawling through the
porthole and swinging in and out of the
ocean on a rope and running amuck dur-
ing “Trovatore” by doing trapeze acts
on the curtain ropes high above the stage
Spunky McFarland in “Our Gang,” at
Sydney St. James.
so that backcloths representing cable
trams, warships and fruit barrows come
and go behind the tenor beefing out his
impassioned solo. The “Italian” Marx is
on the stage disguised as a gipsy, with
furious producer Gottleib (Siegfried
Rumann) stalking him in prop clothes and
behind a portable prop tree, and
Groucho, from a box, is being appallingly
rude to the audience in general and to
’the wealthy woman who financed the
show in particular. Various villains are
hit on the head, and Rosa (Kitty Car-
lisle), who got the sack in the middle of
the piece, is dragged on to the stage as
Leonora, where she and Ricardo sing a
vigorous duet and leap into fame and
favor. At Melbourne Metro.
“Whipsaw”
A gangster drama which improves on
the traditions. Myrna Loy does well to
stick to her type, cool, calm and beauti-
ful, a lady thief who excites admiration
rather than sympathy. Spencer Tracy is
a smooth, suave detective, disguised as
a simpleton, who attaches himself like
a leech to Myrna in and out of honey-
moon suites, taxis and aeroplanes, and
at a farmhouse. Comic element is sup-
plied by the birth of twins and char-
acter sketches from a queer little worm
of a father and a plump professional
nurse. The crooks have hidden the pearls
in Myrna’s mirror, which breaks when
she and her detective embrace for the
first time on their platonic travels. Hand-
cuffs and the shattering of illusions only
last the rest of the night, for Tracy,
though riddled with bullets from the
vengeful crooks who swoop down on the
pair, proves the heroine’s innocence by
his cross-examination. He recovers, of
course, and Myrna has made up her mind
to reform long ago. At Melbourne
Metro.
“The Tunnel”
An imaginative film, with streamlined
trams, a radium drill, giant hydraulic
doors and the like. An England-U.S.A.
tunnel is planned in the cause of world
peace, and to it an engineer (Richard
Dix) devotes his life. Various syndicates,
including armament firms, quarrel over
money and play ping-pong with tunnel
shares, which drop to zero when the
excavators and their radium drill strike
a submarine volcano. The awful panic
in the tunnel is a fine achievement of
production and photography. Parts are
played by gas suits, televisor telephones
and autogyros, by the chief engineer’s wife
(Madge Evans), who goes blind as a
result of tunnel sickness, Helen Vinson
and Leslie Banks, tunnel engineer and
friend of the family. George Arliss and
Walter Huston make brief appearances
as Prime Minister and President respec-
tively. The last reel shows the English
engineers near collapse at a temperature
of 140 deg. cutting through the last few
yards to meet the American end of the
project. At Melbourne Majestic.
“The Private Secretary”
Back in the last century Charles HaW-
trey starred in “The Private Secretary,” in
which Beerbohm Tree as the clergyman
also convulsed prim Victorian audiences.
The play, revised and turned into a talkie,
is still amusing, though the sophisticated
audiences of to-day expect more brittle
repartee. Edward Everett Horton is the
curate who is supposed to be a secre-
tary, but finds himself unwillingly mas-
querading as a spendthrift young blood
of the town. He hides in cupboards and
under tables, and at a seance becomes
a quasi-spook. As the uncle from India
Oscar Asche fills what must have been
his last film role before his death. Barry
Mackay is the spendthrift nephew and
Davina Craig the dumb slavey. At Mel-
bourne Athenaeum.
Some First Nights
Sydney’s one full-sized theatre is lead-
ing a Jekyll and Hyde sort of existence
these days. At night it purveys musi-
comedy; on some afternoons drama
takes the stage. Last week “The Shining
Hour” was revived (it had a semi-amateur
presentation in Sydney ten months ago).
The piece, of Bright Young Thing
vintage, does not improve on further
acquaintance. It portrays not normal types
but psychological oddities —a middle-
aged English spinster of presumably good
breeding who takes plain speaking to
Ronald Colman as Sydney Carton in
“The Tale of Two Cities,” at Sydney
St. James.
Rabelaisian lengths; a gentleman-farmer
addicted to music who becomes hysteri-
cal ; a loving wife so immune from
jealousy that on the first hint that she
has a rival she commits suicide, making it
perfectly plain that she does so to con-
serve her darling’s happiness. Heroine is
an intense Greta-Garboish young woman
who faces divorce through a sense of
loyalty to the dead woman whose hus-
band she stole. Other characters are the
unnaturally amiable elderly husband of
the intense young woman and a hobble-
dehoy with no ascertainable manners.
Acting is better than the play deserves;
so good, indeed, that it clothes the in-
credible characters and events with some
sort of feasibility and reality. But the


A GOOD MARKET
® Artists, writers and
creative men are
invited to submit
sketches and titbits
of humor to the
Manager, Station
2CH, Grace Build-
ing, King and York
Streets, Sydney.
High prices paid for
acceptances.
(Main
CJ
"o!!Z
Sy®
\
$
M/?
a^AV
Ff *OM
-RflßflUL
by OTRANTO . . EARLY JUNE
[Fremantle. May 26-June 29. from 40 gns.; Adelaide, May 30-June 25. from 35 gns.;
Melbourne, June 1-22, from 30 gns.; Sydney, June 4-17, from 17 gns.; Brisbane, June 7-17.
FDF
Duk - Duk (Native Secret Society) dancers will join in the huge
"Sing-Sing" arranged in honour of cruise visitors to Rabaul by "Otranto'*
Later Winter Cruises: PAPUA, via Barrier Reef, early JULY; FIJI, late AUG.
ORiem Line
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. (Incorporated in England)
best of mumming cannot overcome the
monotonous effect of the playwright’s in-
sistence that every conversation shall be
conducted as an aside to some preoccupa-
tion. A crossword puzzle, a game of
bezique, business of setting a tea-table,
reading an engrossing book, playing the
piano, in turn are employed to impart an
air of casual indifference to the most
significant utterances, and the device,
lineal successor of the feather-duster
wielded by the ancient servitor who tells
the family history in Act I, Scene 1, of
the old-type melodrama, is palpably
overdone.
Harvey Adams, smooth and efficient
as ever as the elderly husband, and
Elaine Hammill as his young wife were
seen in these roles in the original Sydney
production. Ethel Morrison takes the
part of the plain-spoken elder sister in
the current show, and makes it live. Her
versatility is as remarkable as her ability.
Campbell Copelin as the musically-
minded farmer holds that strangely-
mingled character in firm focus. Phyllis
Baker as Judy, his wife, and Lloyd
Lamble as his younger brother pass
muster.
-h -h 'f
Eileen Joyce’s final Sydney recital
crowded the Town Hall, and each item
evoked tumultuous applause. There was
much that was worth applauding. Miss
Joyce’s studies under Teichmiiller, that
champion producer of athletic fingers,
have given her equal and efficient com-
mand of all ten digits, and she romps
in all the pride of glad, confident morn-
ing through the most complex passages
that a Liszt, a Schumann or a Brahms
can devise. Perhaps because they are so
seldom heard on the concert platform
nowadays she commends herself best to
experienced musical ears when she pre-
sents the lesser works of old classical
masters or the compositions of second-
rate classicists. The Haydn sonata that
figured on her first programme was one
example, paralleled in her final Sydney
recital by Hummel’s best-known rondo.
Hummel’s theme is trite—Beethoven or
Mozart or even Haydn never nodded so
low—and the working out is as mechani-
cal as a lathe; but nevertheless it is a
workmanlike piece of music, and it
is on record that Hummel played it
in a way that made people gasp with
admiration. Why was a mystery till Miss
Joyce, by sheer good pianism, resurrected
the long-dead steed and made him prance
and curvet with all his original elan.
Max Reger’s transcription of Bach’s D
Minor Toccata and Fugue was performed
elegantly but without much significance,
and the same remark applies to Miss
Joyce’s version of the Schumann F Sharp
Romance and a couple of Debussy num-
bers. In the Schumann B Flat Minor
Romance and in two Brahms numbers
from Op. 118, intermezzo and ballade,
however, the pianist seemed to be
genuinely enjoying herself, and the
reasons for her enjoyment were communi-
cated to her audience.
The big, pyrotechnical feature of the
evening’s entertainment was Glazounov’s
Air and Variations. Despite the achieve-
ments in this field of Beethoven and
Mozart, the scoring of variations has
always seemed to this critic to be an arti-
ficial and pretentious business —a sort of
deliberate, uninspired display of a com-
poser’s resources —and the Glazounov set,
clever though it is, and ably though the
clevernesses were expounded by Miss
Joyce, did nothing to remove that pre-
judice.
q* *i* q* q*
Musical Sydney listened to something
unique at the Savoy last Tuesday when
the Sydney Folk-song Choir, under the
direction of Clement Hosking, gave a
recital that included negro spirituals and
old folk-songs of England, Wales, Scot-
land, Cornwall, the Isle of man and the
Outer Hebrides.
The choir was in splendid form, well-
balanced and word-perfect. Particularly
fine was its singing of a group of
Arnold Foster’s Manx songs, which have
a delightful sea-chantyish swing. The
negro spirituals were given with artistry.
The Hebridean Waulking Scene, per-
formed for the first time in Australia, was
done with spirit. In this the voices are
accompanied by the rhythmic beat of
women’s arms as the newly-woven cloth
is thumped into a closer texture. The
English Folk-dance Club tripped lightly
through some graceful measures, includ-
ing the famous Cornish Floral Dance.
Barend Harris’s resonant voice sounded
well in a group of Maori folk-songs, two
of which, “The Song of the Locust” and
“Hoki, Hoki,” were Alfred Hill’s arrange-
ments. Edith Lanser was expressively
humorous in some Celtic rhymes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In “Richard of Bordeaux,” put on by
the Un-Named Players at Melbourne
Garrick last week, Gordon Daviot has
surveyed an unfortunate monarch, not
through the eyes of a writer with some-
thing to reveal, but through the eyes of
an individual who has unresistingly read
the same history books as the majority of
his audience. The result is a play which
threatens only too often to become
“Richard of Boredom.” Richard is
depicted as deeply concerned by the
fact that his swashbuckling peers live
by war, and that war only impover-
ishes the people he is there to protect.
He wants peace not for the sake of peace,
but for the sake of the benefits that peace
can confer. He proves he is no pacifist
in the accepted sense by squashing the
enemies of the realm in a particularly
warlike way; but in the play nothing is
given of the character of the king of
whom Green, the historian, said that
while he had brilliant qualities they were
“marred by fitful inconstancy and a mean
spirit of revenge.” The Richard of the
play is little better than a pious stereo-
type of various virtues that everybody
can recognise and applaud, and Anne is
only the symbol “wife,” with an accent
presumably intended to be French. John
of Gaunt (Lance Nicholls) lived up to
a point as an uncle who lectured his
kingly relative as if he were a naughty
boy, and Michael de la Pole (John Rose)
was a right-thinking churchman. Cuth-
bert Barrington was a Richard who would
have been more comfortable with a cigar-
ette between his fingers ; John Ormis-
ton Reid was a Duke of Oxford whose
chief asset was a laugh. The play was
handsomely dressed and staged with
restrained magnificence.
►b *l*
In “Art and Mrs. Bottle,” running for
a short season at Melbourne’s Little
Theatre, Ben Levy has created a sparkling
comedy with characters never exagger-
ated to the point of eccentricity. After
20 years of living in sin as Madame
Bottle, Mrs. Bottle returns unexpectedly
to husband and children, whose ages and
sexes she pretends to have forgotten.
Edith Bell plays the part delightfully ; she
is an unrepressed philosopher, vital, ex-
perienced, with an infectious sense of
humor. “That’s a nice one; is that
mine?” says she, pointing at the hired
model posing for the children, amateur
artists. Reginald Robertson gets a Bab-
bittish flavor into the husband, suburban,
conventional and non-progressive, except
at his job of sanitary engineering. Kath-
leen Dwyer does a nicely-restrained little
sketch of the model who refuses young
Michael Bottle’s offer of marriage. She
is a Tippett, The Tippetts have been
bakers for 400 years ; an artist isn’t really
a man with a job, and there’s something
not quite nice about sewerage. Michael’s
sister Judy (satisfactorily played by
Lesley O’Toole) is an intellectual —arro-
gant, crazy to live, married or other-
wise, with artist Max Lightley, devastator
of women’s hearts and Mrs, Bottle’s first
downfall. Dick Webb adds another leaf
to his laurels in character parts as Judy’s
nitwitted but “rich, healthy, kind and
clean” admirer, and Jack Wiltshire is
excellent as the unmoral but well-man-
nered Lightley, Worldly-wise Mrs. Bottle
persuades her son Michael that one of
his father’s drains is worth all the Rem-
brandts in Europe, and by appearing to
make things too easy for her daughter
Judy and Lightley she soon has the girl
in full flight. Well cast and produced
by Brett Randall.
\
The people portrayed by Ronald Mac-
Kenzie in “The Maitlands,” presented by
the Sydney Players’ Club at St. James’s
Hall, Sydney, are as introspective and
disillusioned as any group of patients to
be found in a psychiatrist’s waiting-room.
The Maitlands, living in a moribund Eng-
lish seaside town, were once well-off, but
are now having difficulty in keeping up
appearances. The mother is a complain-
ing, futile person who muddles ordinary
domestic duties. The elder son, Roger,
a tutor, is a peevish grumbler whose
wife has bolted with another man ; the
other son, Jack, an actor, has achieved
a measure of success, but is a callous
egoist. There is also a niece, engaged to
a drunken major, who is seduced by her
actor cousin. Outsiders include the major,
his bullied son and an aimless wealthy
young woman. The play wanders around
in circles for three acts while the charac-
ters indulge in orgies of self-pity; it
comes to an end when Roger’s wife re-
turns, discovers that her husband is chas-
ing another woman, and shoots herself.
The players gave a fairly satisfactory
performance of the dreary affair.
Leonard Bullen as the actor and Edward
Caviil as the major shared the honors,
most likely because their parts were more
conventional than the others. Alex.
Boden, while at home on the stage as
Roger, gave the character but little light
and shade. John Appleton was the pro-
ducer.


WE OFFER
I WHAT I
Moit
People
Desire
iomely com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni-
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney.
iTi
Jill
WENTWORTH ftolel
BRIDGE PARR
SYDNEY
BWI3OI
ELECTRIC LAMPS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Still Further
Reduced in Pric
Coiled - coll
from
10
Single - coil
from
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
Distributors for The British Thomson-Houston Co.. Ltd., Eng.
ML 74
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Delegates to the C.W.A. conference
are no sluggards. They have to be on
the doorstep of David Jones’s auditorium
not later than 9.15 to sign the roll. From
then on to five o’clock to-day, to-morrow
and Friday, they will tackle an extremely
commonsense and comprehensive agenda
that grapples with the problems that beset
Condobolin, Northern and Southern
Tablelands, the Riverina and places in
between. It’s a pity some of our poli-
ticians couldn’t be schooled by the
C.W.A. Notice is given on the agenda
paper that proposers of motions are
allowed five minutes only ; seconders and
subsequent speakers are limited to three
minutes,
Mrs, Toby Browne is practical. She
combines enthusiasm with a knack of
hitting the nail on the head. During the
C.W.A. conference a committee of which
she is a strong driving force has arranged
an all-wool exhibition in David Jones’s.
This will run for a fortnight, and 17
different wool crafts will be demonstrated.
Among these will be wool felt inlay work
by Mabel Corbett and Persian rug weav-
ing by Mrs. Prokapides.
Secretary Bill Fitz Henry can be proud
of the roll-up to the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers’ lunch last week. It was
one of the largest since Frank Clune was
rounder-up. E. J. Brady was the guest.
E.J., the flow and swing of whose verse
Australia has known since Sydney was
more like a gay country town than the
city of the Pacific, belied the tale of his
years in upright carriage, strong voice
and resolute gaze. He sat at a chrysan-
themum-strewn table between president
Frank Dalby Davison and Mrs, Davison,
with old friend Mary Gilmore (her
hat was the loveliest rose tone) next
but one. Mary and E.J. were on the
“Worker” together. Another famous
woman E.J.’s name is closely allied with
is that of Katherine Mansfield; he
edited the first paper that published her
work. Bill Moore in reminiscent mood
told us that.
Adam McCay made a fine speech, ex-
pressing all the ardor and admiration he
had felt for the poet’s work when he him-
self was a beginner. But, of course, it
was schoolfellow Rod Quinn who, in his
intimate, humorous drawl, told the story
that capped all others —the story of
E.J.’s breaking into print. E.J.’s father was
a man of great dignity who walked with
his head high, and before whom the
younger male always felt he should, at
least, stand uncovered. One morning his
father said to E.J., still a schoolboy:
“Well, we are always hearing of your
ambition to become a literary light. Now,
I’ll give you a subject to try your mettle
on. Write a letter to the county council
telling them just what you think of the
wretched water-supply we have to put
up with.” “Right, dad, I will,” said E.J.
“And I’ll be pretty biting with them.”
A few days later E.J.’s father walked
home with the local paper in his hand.
“You have broken into print, all right,”
he said, and handed the paper to his son.
There on the front page, under a large
headline, was his letter, ending on these
lines: “It is not a water-supply, it is not
even a trickle. Why, it is not enough to
wash my father’s feet!”
There seems to be an epidemic of going
to bed early, judging by the few dances
of last week. One that arrived with a
touch of pageantry was that of the Order
of the Eastern Star. It opened with a
fanfare of trumpets, followed by a pro-
cession of office-bearers, the leaders
proudly carrying the Order’s colors.
There was a monster roll-up, nearly 1700
answering the call of the band, and there
was an official party that included
Mayoress Parkes, whose violet chiffons
were cloaked in black velvet. The
Eccles Snowden lady, Ruby Rich and the
Colonel Lorenzo couple were among this
group, which was entertained by the
Grand Matron of the Order, Mrs. J. O.
Andrews, who handsomely combined
orchids and deep blue lace. Mrs. M.
Nash, Mrs, E. Clark and Mrs. J. Paul
were importants of the night. The
Consul-General for Japan and his wife
caused a stir on entering, for Mrs. Murai
wore the Court edition of her national
costume,
Cecily Finley is probably the youngest
potter in Australia. Cecily, not quite
13, already is an artist in ceramics, and
moulds her clay not only for pleasure
but profit. The clever youngster is now
working for a one-girl exhibition of her
work. Her talent is inherited, for father
Ernest Finley, of Lane Cove, is noted as
a maker of artistic pottery.
What will the seasoned Maoriland
traveller who knew the old Monowai
and Manuka think of the brave new
vessel, the Awatea, which the Union S.S.
Co. will introduce to the Tasman Sea in
October? The Awatea sounds like the
ships in which millionaires travel between
New York and Southampton, with its
verandah caf£s and danceroom, its gym-
nasium, telephone and non-luminous
radiator equipment in first-class cabins,
electric lifts, men’s and women’s club-
rooms and all the other dizzy, giddy
things necessary to a modern journey. The
woodwork of the ship has been grown
in forests of several continents, including
Australia: Nigerian cherry-wood in the
dining-room, black bean and Macassar
ebony in the lounge, silky oak from Tas-
mania in the music-room, Queensland
walnut in the smokeroom.
The belles of St. Mary’s) fluttered into
the Trocadero last week complete with
partners. Seven hundred in all, they
danced for the cathedral parish fund.
Up among the “conversation” seats and
standards of flowers at the entrance to
the dancing space, ball president Miss
K. Egan and St. Mary’s Administrator,
Father W. J. Hurley, received the official
guests. Miss Egan’s velvet frock was
sapphire in tone, had a train and a short
jacket, and received a colorful finish in
the pink roses given to her by the com-
mittee members. Mayoress Parkes came
with her alderman husband, her black
velvet coat lush with white fox. Gold
and green scintillated in Mrs. E. Lank-
fer’s gown; pale golds and pink were
wed in Mrs. Greg McGirr’s crepes.
Two young things taking up committee
work are Barbara Burfitt and Beatrice
McGirr. A shoulder drape like a green
flag leaf floated from Beatrice McGirr’s
white frock ; Barbara chose pink. Peggy
Murray wore the faintly blue tulle and
taffeta in which she was presented at
Court last year, Molly Street and Jean
Anderson were there, the first in shell-
pink lace, the second very classic in white
satin.
The Women’s Industrial Arts Society
can claim to have uncorked the best party
of last week. This overflowed the three
rooms —life-class studio, clubroom and
buffet—with the completely-dressed
(students in slacks and jumpers, in
smocks, in linen frocks of pastel tonings
were very much at home), the semi-
evening-dressed, and a smattering of
full backs. The buff walls and bright
lighting flung into relief a collection of
posters from many lands. There were
cathedrals and saints, and reproductions
of windows from old English churches.
There were glimpses of the lakeland that
made you realise that Wordsworth knew
what he was about when he founded his
school of poetry there. There was the Pool
of London, there was Sydney Harbor, and
our own kangaroo was represented, look-
ing as though he was on skis. The posters
were lent by Violet Roche and the
National Travel Association,
The society has now a hundred
members, Mrs. Dick Casey, from Can-
berra, being the hundredth. Mrs. Clinton
(Frank Payne), who is its live-wire presi-
dent, greeted all arrivals after they had
signed names in the visitors’ book, paid
three shillings and in exchange had been
invested with a ticket marked “Paid” by
a nice girl with earrings that just swung
clear of her shoulders. Bea McDonald,
who came with Ethel Ranken, wore a
frock of black moire with the prettiest
black-and-white ruffle about its shoulders,
Charles Nicis raised his tenor, Albert Col-
lins made the opening speech, Betty and
Joan Rayner came late, Maureen Warwick
(who is to be Scott Alexander’s leading
lady in “Daddy Long-legs”) wore a
flowered chiffon dress. Woodward Smith
was one of the few men artists present.
The supper, given by Mrs, P. Bushell,
was full measure and running over.
One polo ball, exclusive model, will be
given in the ballroom of Retford Hall,
the Tony Horderns’ Darling Point home,
during Dudley Cup week. But if you are
a city toiler you’ll scarcely conquer that
Everest. Tickets are to be limited to
300, and will be 30s. The second big ball
of the week will be the C.W.A. effort. This
will be in Paddington Town Hall, will
be known as the Blue and Gold, and
has for its president Mrs. Matt Sawyer,
and for it's organiser Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax. Paddington’s civic ballroom, be-
loved by dancers in the ’nineties, still
retains its popularity.
Here is Kitty Mackay, from Bondi, who
goes to Berlin to represent Australia in
the Olympic Games. Kitty’s specialty
is sprint swimming. She won’t be 21
till June, and she and the other water
babies, Pat Norton and Claire Dennis,
have been almost submerged by a round
of farewells. Montgomery Dunn por-
trait.
Nell Walker, daughter of solicitor
H. G. Walker, of Bellevue Hill,
was married last week, and like
her husband, Justin McCarthy, of
Melbourne, she is a graduate of
economics of Sydney University. Vellum
deque, patterned in gold thread, formed
the bride’s frock, which was long, caught
at the throat by the diamond-and-pearl
brooch worn by her mother at her
wedding, and snowed under by tulle.
Golden iris and gold roses were her
flowers. Muffs of mignonette and yellow
roses, mignonette-green chiffon frocks,
and green tulle hats were worn by Nancy
Connolly and Nancy Walker, who
’maided. Blessing at All Saints’, Wool-
lahra. Reception at Forum Club.
Deep sympathy is felt for Miss Patricia
and Miss Josephine O’Connor, both well
known among women journalists, whose
sister Eileen died recently. Miss
O’Connor was buried in the family grave
at Wagga, where her father was for many
years a doctor.
What is the open-air theatre of Castle-
crag to do without the Burley Griffins?
Their home used to serve the players for
dressing-rooms, props, storehouse, and a
dozen and one different things. Last
week Mrs. Griffin went off in the
Comorin to join her husband in India,
where he is almost snowed under with
commissions for designs for banks,
picture theatres and libraries. Mr. Griffin
went to India to design a new library
for Lucknow University. Mrs. Griffin is
herself an architect.
Maybe because the drawing-room is
many years closer to the tradesmen’s
entrance than in grandmother’s time the
announced reduction in the minimum
wage for women was the almost invari-
able topic at' club and party last week.
Women of leisure no longer look upon
what happens outside the garden walls
as no concern of theirs. With the
commonsense psychology of the sex, old
and young pointed a finger at an angle
where the girl would be hurt mentally
or physically by the cut. “Four pounds a
year,” said the young thing. “It means
an evening dress and shoes. A girl must
have a fling sometimes.” “Four pounds,”
the health-minded mused —“the price of
a raincoat, a strong pair of shoes and an
umbrella,” “Four pounds,” said the
woman from Darling Point —“the price
of a spring hat, and maybe a pair of
gloves. A woman must have a new hat
in the spring, or she’d go melancholy.”
Funny how that proposed cut in the
working girl’s wage strengthened the
bond of sisterhood in Sydney. Not alone
by three meals a day and a bed to sleep
in does a girl live. Sisters under their
skin, though the one be ermine, the other
rabbit. Daughter of merchant prince
and factory girl are alike in that.
A woman just off the latest packet
from England has uncorked envy with a
trig little caracul coat in cream. This is
fitting, buttons down the front, is cut
away at the waist in front, and has
pockets and cuffs scrolled in brown.
Worn with a brown skirt it looked very
cosy in last week’s wind. The pencil out-
line still persists for evenings, and high
necklines and long sleeves (straight once
more; the shirred fullness seems on the
wane after eight o’clock). For dancing,
of course, the back is still bared to the
saxophone’s breath, lines are still long
and sweeping, and filmy drapes, falling
from the shoulders, sweep trainwise on
to the floor.
This is a good idea. The woman who
likes to have her train and her dance can
fling these loose drapes over an arm.
With trains that are part of the skirt
there is always the risk of gripping them
ever higher and higher, till the final
evolution is practically danced in the silk
under slip. Suits are inclined to the
Directoire, and waistcoats will accompany
all. Pique is about the smartest material
for these waistcoats. The suit blouse
departs from this rigor of line and is
frilled. The influence of the Chinese art
exhibition is still shown in shiny satins,
straight collars and hats that have a
pagoda bias.
The King’s School Old Boys’ annual
dance will be held at Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries on Friday, June 19. Tickets
may be got from B. B. O’Conor and
W. S. Friend.


BRANDAEJER’S
SW
m
m
o**
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDADER Se CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
Missing Relatives.
THE next-of-kin of CHARLES TATE, late
of Christchurch, New Zealand, and formerly
of Melbourne, are requested to communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, advising their relationship to
the deceased, and also forwarding any docu-
mentary evidence available to substantiate such
relationship.
FULL • STOP TO
RHEUMATISM
Many Ageing Ills GO as Harrisons
Pills Cleanse a*d Tone Kidneys
Back, Joint, Leg and Muscle Pains STOP—Acid
Irritation; Scalding, Smarting Urinary Troubles;
Bladder Weakness —all cease when Harrison’s Pills
end the cause. Acids, Poisons, Germs, Wastes—
these kill energy, sap vitality—END YOUTH!
The nightly unrest through Weak Bladder, Nerviness,
Dizziness, Rings under the Eyes, Headaches —all go
as Harrison’s Pills, unrivalled remedy of a London
Doctor, puts disordered conditions right. Relief
comes at once —restoration to real health follows on
the strengthening of the vital organs. See for
yourself—get a package of genuine HARRISON’S
PILLS (2/-, 3/- or 5/-) from the Chemist. If
not amazed and delighted with benefits of very fitst
bottle —money back.
Melbourne
chatter
Golf to music was part of the pro-
gramme for the open charity day at
Woodlands. A gramophone at the club-
house threw its volume through a loud-
speaker all the afternoon, so that after
driving off to the tune of “The Music
Goes ’Round and Around” players when
they reached the second tee could, if their
brogues were infected by syncopation, do
a tap dance to “The Broken Record.”
Then, coming down the ninth, they found
themselves humming “I’ll Never Say Never
Again, Again,” and on the tenth trying
to force mind over matter and drive
straight and not worry over “Why I Fell
in Love with the Leader of the Band.”
In between records the mike was used
to page players all over the course, and
for compliments and other personal asides
to competitors just visible on the horizon.
Other innovations happened at each of
the three short holes, where bookies-for-
a-day laid even money on players reach-
ing the greens and longer odds on more
accurate shots within a scale of feet
from the pin. The weather was splendid
and the course in perfect condition. As
there were 450 entries, mixed sixsomes
instead of foursomes were played, and
the time for a round was three and a
half to four hours. Several competitions
were run in conjunction with the princi-
pal events for the Hugh Devine and the
J. I. Liston cups, and there were prizes
for putting and approach shots. A bat-
talion of raffle sellers (everything from
bottles of beer to Christmas-dinner tur-
keys) helped to make money for the
gymkhana’s charity, St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital. Among the players in a gathering
representative of all grades, from cham-
pions to longest markers, were Wood-
lands associates’ captain, Mrs. R. C.
Daly, Horace Boorer, G. Naismith, Mrs.
W. Gardner, Don Thompson, the Gen-
goult Smith couple, Mrs. Jeavons and
A. J. Sudekum.
Wing-Commander Hepburn’s good-
byes to his Melbourne friends were said
at the Alexander, situated so near to the
departure of the Sydney express that a
late passenger can get on board almost
at a flying leap. Throughout the after-
noon people dropped in to wish happy
landings all the way upon a really staunch
fellow, voted everywhere as “one of the
best.” The party which filled up one
corner of the big lounge happened round
a choice of cocktails or drinks un-
adorned, and savories made of vegetables
in flower form —tulips cut out of radishes,
curly camellias fashioned from turnips
and grape hyacinths evolved from little
white spring onions.
Among those who came and went or
stayed as special old friends or relatives
to “see Hep” do. his take-off from the
platform were his two sisters and brother
with their respective husbands and wife,
quantities of Air Force officers, Wing-
Commander Cobby, who has recently
been transferred from the A.A.F. to be-
come second member of the Air Board
(which used to be called the Department
of Civil Aviation), the Fred Raes, Captain
and Mrs. Ernest Jones and Squadron-
Leader Garnett Malley, who leaves Syd-
ney this week by the Marella on the first
lap of his journey back to China. Mrs.
Malley remained in Sydney during the
brief few weeks of her husband’s leave.
The pair live in Canton, where Squad-
ron-Leader Malley is adviser on air mat-
ters to the Government of the southern
provinces of China.
Guests arriving for the opening of the
Victorian Artists’ autumn exhibition
registered polite surprise at the piece of
mud-modelling on view in the main
gallery. The article, however, was not an
exhibit of a new reactionary sculptor;
it was merely a rough illustration
(modelled by his lady) of Frank Clarke’s
idea for the King’s memorial. His
scheme is a symbolical group illustrative
of the late King in relation to his Empire.
At the top there is a bust of King
George, supporting groups represent the
Dominions, the services and civis virtues
and at the base are waves of the seas that
surround a maritime nation. Frank
Clarke reasons that people think of King
George not as a warrior on a war
charger or as an admiral of the fleet, but
as a family man, a good citizen and first
gentleman of a great Empire.
Speakers at the opening were John
Rowell, who, however, pitched his voice
so low that very few ears caught the
trend of his digest, and sculptor Paul
Montford, who let fall, in all amiability,
something about amateurs being occa-
sionally helpful although they knew no-
thing about art. The W. B. Mclnneses
were there (Mrs. Mclnnes sold two
pictures on the opening night) with
daughter Jean, whose hair was arranged
in loose, sleek ringlets all over her head,
kept in place, no doubt, by will-power.
Baron Marks wore a red rose in his
buttonhole and several dangling medals
on his watch-chain. Of the same genera-
tion was James Quinn, who whispered
that among the best artists on the other
side of the world beards, unless worn in
two peaks instead of one, are definitely
out. In the throng were the R. B. Hamil-
tons, Mrs. Hamilton in a padded and
embroidered white satin evening coat;
Dr. and Mrs. Stuart Fraser, she in moss-
green velvet; Norman Mays and Robert
Ogg, who almost made a faux pas by
remarking that the Vic. Artists’ building,
which is also the Albert-sfreet Con., was
not designed for acoustics. H. W. Tom-
kins amiably replied that he had built the
place 40 years ago.
Here is a Broothorn camera’s impres-
sion of Mrs, Geoffrey Rutter Clarke,
a member of the committee working for
the success of the Legacy Ball to be held
in the Palais to-morrow on the eve of
boat-race day. The ball, the third
organised to help the good works of the
Legacy Club, will be run in cabaret
manner at the cost of 10s. 6d. per pair
of dancing feet and there will be no
lucky-dips or raffles to maraud pockets
of patrons.
Mr. and Mrs. Louis McCubbin know
all the dodges of keeping a secret. One
evening last week, when everybody in
Melbourne seemed to be looking the
other way, the pair got a taxi and
went off to Christ Church, South Yarra.
The bride, who was Mrs. Spiers Jackson,
had no attendants, but her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. E. J. D. Abraham, sat in the
empty church with Mrs. Moppy Mc-
Cubbin, whose husband was entrusted
with the job of best man. It’s a role he’s
not used to, and the responsibility of
guarding the ring worried him to such an
extent that he made it into a parcel of
a white box and white ribbon bows. The
pair, who had no time for a honeymoon,
stayed at the Windsor until they went off
to Adelaide.
Nobody discovered about the wedding
until two days later, which was the date
of the Victorian Artists’ Society’s fare-
well to Mr. McCubbin, whose beautiful
bride was the cynosure of all eyes. The
Artists’ do was a mixture of dancing,
talk, looking at the pictures, drinking
coffee and “turns,” musical and other-
wise. Tom Challen played his violin,
Hinemoa Rosieur and May Daley sang,
Letitia Montford danced in pink ballet
tulle, Ida Scott accompanied and Norman
Bland gave away the secrets of a one-
man radio station. With dexterous agility
he was gardening expert, querulous
Auntie Agnes, weather reporter, observa-
tory time signal, world-famous flautist
with a tin whistle, and a Chicago station
broadcasting an operation for appen-
dicitis. In an exaggerated nasal twang
the victim was trussed up and suitably
smothered with ether ; scissors snapped.
little nurses fluttered, and, though both
doctor and patient refused to speak into
the mike (very selfish of them), the act
was a red-hot success.
Among guests present was Mrs. Lan-
fear Thompson, who is artist Madge Free-
man, lately returned to Victoria after
several years’ painting and art study in
Paris. Noticed also were sculptor Wal-
lace Anderson, Dr. Edward Heffernan,
A. E. Newberry and George Colville,
none of whom were supported by their
wives, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Dunstan,
George Allen and the Percival Series.
Here is Joan Henry, who pursues the
arts with brush and pencil and by the
study of the “absolute dance,” which she
explains is the antithesis of following one
school of thought in dancing. It em-
braces the evolution of various methods
and allows for self-expjression and inven-
tion. Miss Henry held an exhibition
this week of drawings and paintings and
her dancing pupils gave demonstrations
of the clever masks she has designed.
She makes her masks of papier mache
and gives them fascinating headdresses
of feathers, beads and other glittersome
embellishments. The masks, as displayed
through cracks in a velvet curtain, told
a story about Lord George Hell (a fierce
mask) who met a girl (a beautiful mask);
also an emerald witch, three Per-
sians, a Saxon and other romantic
folk. Miss Henry, whose portrait is by
Broothorn, is the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Vernon Henry. Her brother is
Hal Percy, well-known on the stage and
over the air.
In honor of the birthday of the
Emperor of Japan David York Syme, as
Japanese Consul, was host to a represen-
tative gathering as Scott’s Hotel. Among
the hundred present were Major Wilkin-
son, representing Lord Gowrie; Colonel
Pott, acting for the Governor; Japanese
businessmen, consular and civic dele-
gates and many citizens anxious to take
part in a courtesy ceremony held for the
second year in succession. A large
Japanese flag was the mainstay of decora-
tion for the function, which took place in
the hour which elapses between the clos-
ing of offices and thinking about dinner.
Only two toasts were proposed. King Ed-
ward VIII. and Nippon’s Emperor, and
there were no speeches.
Among numerous other dates pertain-
ing to two States squeezed into her diary,
the Prime Minister’s wife has made an
entry for May 14 at 11 a.m. This par-
ticular engagement will be the half-
yearly sale of work of the Gentlewomen’s
Aid Society, at which Mrs. Lyons will
make the opening speech and cast an
appreciative housewifely eye over needle-
work, knitting and jam-making. The
G. is a help to women who must
either make or supplement small incomes
by their own efforts. It takes no per-
centage from sales, the gross selling price
asked for each article going to the pro-
ducer of the handwork. Expenses are
defrayed from subscriptions, donations,
sale of tickets and profits made from
tea and cake stalls.
Victoria’s only woman town clerk has
relinquished public office for matrimony.
She was Mollie Scott, and the desk at
which she pursued her career was part
and parcel of the Town Hall of Echuca.
The marriage between Miss Scott, who
is the youngest daughter of the late J.
H. Scott and Mrs. Scott, of Moama
(N.S.W.), and Stuart Russell Harris,
eldest son of the Mayor and Mayoress
of Castlemaine, took place at Christ
Church, Echuca. Two lily-green ’maids,
sisters of the bride and ’groom, followed
in the wake of white satin, tulle and lily-
of-the-valley.
The navy is welcoming Commander
and Mrs. Otway-Ruthven, who with their
small family of Oonagh and Robert
arrived in Melbourne last week. The
surname Ruthven is a twig of the same
family-tree to which Lord Cowrie be-
longs—he and Commander Otway-
Ruthven are distant connections. Mrs.
Otway-Ruthven is quiet and charming,
her interests being chiefly literary and
the care of husband and children. She
is pleased at coming to Melbourne, for
she has lived so long without a per-
manent home, following the fleet with
other naval wives up and down the coast
of England. Last year she spent five
months in Gibraltar, She expects to
remain two years in Melbourne,
Joyce Macbeth, tall, blonde, with
genuine cold-weather roses in her cheeks
and her skates under the arm (figuratively
speaking at least), arrived last week in
Melbourne for her third winter as pro-
fessional exponent of skating at the
Glaciarium. This third arrival was the
most exciting she has experienced, for
her fiance, J. Marcovitch, was on the
wharf to meet her. Since she left Mel-
bourne seven months ago Miss Macbeth
has given exhibitions in London, France
and Belgium. She says that in London
the two largest rinks are each built to
accommodate 10,000 people.
After locking the front and back doors
of their home and asking milkman and
baker to leave rations for two pet cats
Mr. and Mrs. John Somerville have come
from Hobart to Melbourne for a short
holiday. The pair, both Westralians, did
a heap of travelling before they settled
last year in Tasmania for the second
time. Mr. Somerville is a research
chemist with a reputation for knowing
as much as anyone else about making
paper pulp from Australian products.
Living on “salt horse” and dried fish he
made acquaintance with Scandinavian
timbers in their natural habitat. While
he did research in the U.S.A. and Canada
Mrs. Somerville spent most of her time
in the State of Washington visiting
luncheon-lecture clubs, studying anthro-
pology as a hobby, keeping up her French
and reading prodigiously, with a some-
what unexpected penchant for detective
stories. She is a young woman with an
exceptionally brilliant brain, but says she
will not attempt to write a thriller her-
self unless she manages to acquire an
intimate knowledge of police methods or
gets an inspiration for a master crafts-
man, either crook or detective, as a cen-
tral figure for a plot.
Three more Portias have been admitted
to the Victorian Bar. Isla Murphy,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Thomas
Murphy, of St. Kilda, is an M.A. and an
LL.B., and served her articles with her
uncle, Luke Murphy. Articled clerks’
courses were successfully completed by
Isabel Gartlan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
John Gartlan of Kew, and Paula Lazarus,
who received her legal grounding in the
John Gartlan, of Kew, and Paula Lazarus,
Mrs. Doris Campbell drops a couple
of tourist news tabloids from the other
side of the world. As a passenger on the
Rio de Janeiro Maru, a Japanese tourist
steamer cruising round about South
Africa on the way to Brazil, Mrs. Camp-
bell received a refresher every morning
at seven —hot buttered toast and a cup
of hot coffee kept hotter with a screw
lid fitting tightly on to the red lacquer
cup. But such solicitude hardly com-
pensated for incidental expenses. Cock-
tails were 2s. 6d. each in Australian
currency, and 2s. was the fee for having
a frock pressed. Passengers were not
permitted to use irons. The hotel in
Cape Town provided a contrast in
laundry bills. Four linen dresses, plus a
bundle of oddments, all beautifully
washed and ironed, cost Mrs. Campbell
only Is. 9d.


wrntMj
W//VTER PAYS
Jor JAVA
BALI 6- SINGAPORE
K.P.M. Great White Yachts provide
the glamorous get-away from
winter into sunshine —to Java, where
new pleasures, strange sights and
scenes await you. _
On your way the Barrier Beef-
Then Macassar, presenting the
opportunity of a lifetime —a visit
to Bali! Sourabaya! S’emarang!
Batavia! Singapore! Places to be
seen, for description beggars their
fascination to Western eyes.
Special first-class return fares from
Sydney and Brisbane, £O7/10/- to
Java, and £75 to Singapore —no
exchange—including side-trip to
Bali bv local K.P.M. steamer at no
extra 'fare. Slightly higher from
Adelaide and Melbourne.
June and July sailings, Nieuw
Holland and Nieuw Zeeland
call direct at Boeleleng ( Bali ).
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
K.P.M. LINE.
Royal Packet Navigation Co.
JPaketvaart House, 255 George St., Sydney
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
& >
m av! .T-
DF
UNSIGHTLY
HAIR GROWTH
BANISHED FOR EVER
Travellers in Eastern countries, almost ■without
exception, have marvelled at the wonderfully sleek,
smooth skin of the Hindoo women. They thought
it was natural, and that no pains had been taken t
achieve that beautiful, velvety smoothness.
But the Hindoo women profess a religion which
forbids superfluous hair and demands absolute
cleanliness of skin. How this is obtained has been
for centuries a closely guarded secret, and was only
learned by me through a most extraordinary com-
bination of circumstances.
Suffice it to say that, where I was afflicted wifjh
most detestable and horrid growths of superfluous
hair on face and arms, a few days’ treatment was
enough to remove all trace and leave the skin pure
and clean. And the hair has, never returned.
As I had previously tried many known methods for
ridding me of my terrible affliction, you can imagine
my gratitude when I once again beheld my face and
arms free for ever of the disfiguring growths.
Since that time I have passed on the secret + to
thousands of women, from whom I hold m^ n y grate—
ful letters, proving that what was successful in my
case was equally so in theirs.
The possession of that secret altered my outlook
upon life completely —it removed the disfiguring
growth of hair never again to return it relieved
my mental torture and restored my health.
That secret I am prepared to pass on FREE to
all sufferers from SUPERFLUOUS HAIR who send,
the coupon or copy of it. It does not matter how
old-standing your trouble, you oan be permanently
cured.
Write to-day enclosing coupon with three penny
stamps to cover postage, etc., when all instructions
will be sent you, and vou need never have a trace of
superfluous hair again. Address: Frederica Hudson
(Bldg. L. 9), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London,
W.l, England,
THIS FREE COUPON
be sent with your
name and address and 3d. stamps. Mrs. Hudson:
Please send me free full information and in-
structions to cure superfluous hair.
Address: FREDERICA HUDSON (Bldg. L. 9),
No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London, W.l, Eng.
IMPORTANT NOTE. — Mrs. Hudson belongs to a
family high in Society, and is the widow of a
prominent Army officer, so you can write her wnth
every confidence to the above address, where she has
been established since 1916.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The Mecca of all Visitors
//u
Ipf
i
kmwM Im-J
Il*f s *Jk>
Pf r3
WSMi
1
m
HOTEL MANSIONS
Phone:
F 2191
(4. lines)
Situated in the heart of
Sydney’s social centre, within
convenient distance of the
City, the Hotel Mansions
is THE place to stay when
visiting Sydney.
Delightful cuisine, courteous
service, luxurious surround-
ings, your every wish antici-
pated at the Hotel Mansions.
Moderate Tariff.
Reservations day and night.
HOTEL MANSIONS
KING'S CROSS, SYDNEY
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Embassy orchestra put on new
silver-and-blue uniforms when rowing
men took the floor at the Inter-State
Eight Ball. Australian Rowing Council
president R. S. Jeffreys was there with
his wife’s electric blue and silver satin
in tow, and State president Frank Shaw
brought his other half in swirling black
georgettes. Twins Dorothy and Beatrice
Baker synchronised in black velvet;
Bonne Spencer sported floral taffetas, and
Phil Ormiston splashed a spume of tulle
on her black chenille velvet.
Gwenyth Saw and Don Stewart crossed
the matrimonial bridge at St. George’s
Cathedral, with the Dean of Perth show-
ing the way. This sixth daughter of the
W. A. Saws, of Bellevue-terrace, was girt
with magnolia satin, full sleeved, cowl-
necked, long-trained and draped in front
from waist to hem. Mother-of-pearl
leaves held the swirl of tulle which half-
veiled the fragrant bouquet of gardenias
and stephanotis. The trio of ’maids, Pat
and Isla Saw and Betty Piesse, shim-
mered frocks of green-and-silver chan-
geant taffeta, with posies of green-
and-silver buds nestling in the folds.
Oriental geegaws, clusters of cherry-
blossom, festoons of lanterns and the
orchestra in colorful Chinese costumes
created atmosphere at the Mt. Lawley
amateurs’ “Night in Chinatown” at the
Stirling Institute. Kathleen Pearson’s
secretarial duties were carried out in
attractive schooner-blue taffetas and silver
lame. Joan Firth guarded the treasury
with soft pink satin, and Marjorie Sin-
clair harmonised with the decorations in
an embroidered Chinese coat over floral
satins.
Fred Thomson and Jean Scott went
into double harness at St. Paul’s, Bridge-
town. The bridal rig was all white, in
satin, tulle and sheaf of gladioli. Jessie
Thomson, Hazel Armstrong and lone
Wheatley attended in blue perel crepe
with leis and headgears of silver flowers.
Dorothy Brehaut’s coming-of-age was
celebrated with afternoon tea at the
Savoy, where an o.s. birthday cake held
pride of place. Mrs. Brehaut’s black
georgette and satin was studded with
chromium motifs, and Dorothy nestled
presentation roses ’gainst a suit of peach
marselle and navy taffeta blouse.
Bride-elect parties for Cath Cumpston
are under way. Beryl and Joan Birchley
put on a linen tea at their Mt, Lawley
home. Mrs, Karl Knapp, in blue-and-
white patterned silk crepes, poured tea for
guests carrying miscellaneous parcels.
Cath garbed herself in red self-striped
matelasse for her trousseau display.
Another soon-to-be-wed is Nell
Stewart, who was guest of honor at Mrs.
J. J. Mahood’s morning tea at the Karra-
katta Club.
For its guest night Mt, Yokine Golf
Club was resplendent with colored lights
which festooned the trees in front of the
clubhouse and were suspended in the
bays of the verandah. Each lounge was
massed with individual colored dahlias.
Dance committee vice-president Mrs. G.
H. Bacon sprinkled gold lame over her
black taffetas. Mrs. Oscar Negus and
Mrs. A. Phillips both chose black velvet.
A crinkle ran over Rhaida Shonnell's
blue crepes, Dorrie Hankin wore un-
relieved white and Mrs. Roy Saw scat-
tered pink flowers on black chiffon.
Betty Hayward, younger chick of Dr.
and Mrs. Lance Hayward, has given her
promise to Dr. Gallasch, of Kellerberrin,
who hails from S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Morpheftville show put on for “Miss
Racing” (Jean Butler) drew a surprisingly
big crowd. The Premier and Mrs. Butler
were there, the lady in black matelasse
with a black velour hat. Jean chose a
brown deque jacket suit, a small cap of
the same material, and her white satin
blouse was finished at the throat with
a wide satin bow. Mayoress Dunstan’s
black wool marocain was trimmed with
military braid. Mrs. S. J. Jacobs and
Mrs. A. M. Toll also chose black. The
Moulden lady sported a grey self-striped
swagger suit. Mrs. F. A. Tennant was
in navy wool with a carmine velour hat,
leather belt and accessories. Mrs. W. A.
Piper combined with a brown tweed suit
a brown felt hat and a green scarf.
The National Bank folk gave an infor-
mal party at the South Australian as a
farewell to Mrs. E. H. Matthews, wife
of the just-retired manager, and daughter
Gladys. A presentation of an evening-
bag was made to Mrs. Matthews. A wel-
come was given to Mrs. James Fairley,
wife of the new manager, and her daugh-
ter Mollie.
The fete held at the residence of the
Bonython lady on East-terrace was a
success, for this hostess has always some-
thing new to offer in the way of enter-
tainment. This time it was a Beauty
and the Beast parade. As each dog in
the show had to represent a different
country some unusual breeds were in
evidence. The quaint national costumes
worn by the girls who led the dogs helped
the picture. Lady Dugan was in black
wool georgette. The Bonython lady’s
dusky-pink matelasse jacket was pin-
spotted with black. Her skirt was a
black flat crepe and her hat a black
straw. Produce and flower stalls were
on the lawn in front of the house, and
afternoon tea was served under the trees
and in the ballroom. The harvest
amounted to £72.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson, of Urrbrae,
Glen Osmond, invited musical people
to meet Dr. and Mrs. Maurice McGilli-
cuddy, of Melbourne, and their two
daughters at morning tea at the South
Australian. Mrs. Richardson received in
the lounge wearing a black satin coat
over a flowered silk toilette. Her hat
was a black velvet, and she wore an
ermine fur stole in which she pinned a
spray of crimson roses. Yvonne, who
accompanied her mother, was in a fawn
woollen jacket suit spotted with navy
blue. Mrs. McGillicuddy’s bright navy
marocain coat was worn over a figured
navy silk. Daughter Mauricette sported
an indigo satin frock, the three-quarter
coat hung in pleats and belted, with a
touch of stitched white satin at the collar
and on the pockets.
Among the centenary competition en-
tertainments was a dance and cabaret at
the Embassy on behalf of “Miss Wool
Industry.” Pink dahlias decorated the
tables round the ballroom. Mrs. J. H.
Hammond, of the women’s committee,
received the official party gowned in
fawn lace, fitting to the figure. Miss J.
Tetzel, “Miss Wool Industry,’’ chose a
frock in peacock-blue dull satin with a
spray of silver roses on the corsage.
TASMANIA.
Weather was cold but fine for the rac-
ing at Mowbray, and smart winter garb
was on parade, Mrs. E. V. Chapman’s
furs and close-fitting coat were topped
with a little hat not much bigger than
a cap. On the lawn were T.T.C. chair-
man Dr. Geo. Clemons, the N. P, Harris-
sons, the Andrew Raeburns, the F. Fair-
thornes, Mrs. Stuart Hutton (all in navy),
the R. C. Fields, Mrs. Charlie Martin,
the Val Taylors, the H. Quigleys, the
Rupert Agnews, Mrs. J. Doolan, the Guy
Merediths, the Allan Stewarts, Mrs. Carl
Stackhouse, the Norman Fields, Mr. and
Mrs. G. Arthur, the C. N. Gunns, the
Geo. Peacocks (Hobart) with the Gordon
Blews, the Vranisan girls, Sheila Keating
and Barbara and Lynne Hall.
Girl Guides in the north had a big
party at the Metropole when Miss Dell
Hayman, Guide Commissioner from
Sandringham, Vic., visited them. The
affair was also a welcome to Mrs, G. H.
Hogg, Divisional Commissioner, just
home from abroad.
Mrs. Ruby McLaren and Col. L. H.
Payne, with the Rose Day Committee
behind them, engineered a bridge-party at
the Town Hall for the Blind, Deaf and
Dumb Institution. The Lady Mayoress’s
room and reception-room were filled with
tables, and supper was served in the Lord
Mayor’s room, the vestibule and the
committee room, so that though there
was a big rally there was no crush.
About 50 tables were filled.
Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Davies have been
guests at a series of farewell functions
before embarking for England. Mrs.
Davies, who has been secretary to the
Queen Mary Club, was entertained by the
committee at dinner and bridge at the
club. Presentations of tasteful gifts were
made after dinner, from the committee
and from members generally. The table
was lit by candles set in old-fashioned
crystal candlesticks, and decorations were
pink and white.
News comes from London of the wed-
ding of Audrey Potter, formerly of Tul-
lochgoram, Fingal, to Dr. Rene Elvin, at
Brompton Parish Church, South Kensing-
ton. The bride wore white satin, plainly
cut, and her sister Daphne was sole ’maid,
in white also, with a little cap affair of
blue velvet and touches of blue in her
bouquet. Her ’groom, who is a doctor
of literature, is London correspondent for
some of the Continental newspapers.
Margaret, only daughter of the J. L.
Nicholsons, New Norfolk, and Derek
Gurney, Hobart, announce their engage-
ment.
Mrs. C. A. Kay went back to Mel-
bourne after some weeks’ stay in Hobart,
and with her went her sisters, Mrs. F. M.
Young and Bertha and Edie Chambers.
Mrs. Kay gave a farewell lunch-party at
Hadley’s.
The E. C. Pratts’ names help to swell
the big list of Tasmanian travellers to
England this autumn. They sailed in the
Orford, and expect to be away till the end
of the year.
Betty Nicholls, the C.J.’s daughter, has
secured the job, hitherto held by Dorothy
Wyly, of publicity officer to the A.B.C.
at 7ZL. Miss Wyly moves on to the
head-office staff in Melbourne.


MONTHLY INCOME
GUARANTEE 0
At last you can obtain complete protection for
your wife and family at remarkably low cost.
The P. & C. Family Income Policy has revo-
lutionised Life Assurance. It pays, in a lump
sum, the full amount of the policy in 20
years; meanwhile, it pays a steady, safe in-
come of £l2/10/- per month per thousand of
the policy, in the event of the assured’s death
before the end of the 20-year period.
Full details gladly sent on request.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
Co-operative Assurance Co. Ltd.
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director :
H. FELL. '
Chairman of Directors :
SIR ARTHUR K. TRETHOWAN, K. 8., M.L.C.
INGOT
TWEED TROUSERS
for Hard-working Conditions
Where the work is hardest . . . and wear
and tear is greatest—lngot Work Trousers
will prove their worth.
They keep their shape and are colour-fast.
Even repeated boilings will not give them
that “washed-out” appearance. And wear
—you’ll be pleasantly surprised at the
length of time it takes to wear them out.
Made in Australia from
Australian Cotton
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“El V.”: Andrew Patterson, who died
in Brisbane on April 23, was 91, and
came from Scotland in 1863. He and
his brother soon established themselves
among the best-known residents of Rock-
hampton. He became a surveyor, and
laid down the route of the C.Q. railway
as far as Westwood. Later he planned
the route from the Dawson to Emerald ;
afterwards he worked on- the main
southern line construction across the
Darling Downs, and on that from Gympie
to Maryborough. There were few lines
built in the ’eighties with the mapping
of which Andra was not connected. In
1903 he began to practise privately, but
for 20 years has been in
retirement. The eldest of
his six sons is engineer to
the Main Roads Com-
mission.
* $
“Arunta”: Bob Nel-
son’s suggestion that a
deputation from Ten-
nant’s Creek (N.T.) to
ask for a battery should
ride to Canberra on
camels has a germ of
genius in it, but lacks
finesse in detail. A
camel is a great animal
as a persuader, but it should not be
used too openly. The deputation
should proceed stealthily with its cara-
van, which should consist of old bulls
for preference, and hide itself in
Stromlo Forest. It should then, in
deepest night, sprinkle Canberra with
oonts. A few consignments intro-
duced into the Lyons garden would
soon scent the P.M. into granting a
battery. A nightly trickle for a fort-
night into Queen’s Hall would make the
battery free to all users. Half a dozen
humps outside Archdale Parkhill’s
bedroom would procure the radio
beaconing of the Barkly Tableland.
But a little variety wouldn’t hurt. If
a tribe of really wild blacks —the kind
that never wash —was included in the
delegation the humble petitioners of the
North could demand anything ten
minutes after arrival —even Canberra
itself.
* H= * *
“J.W.”: This year is a revolutionary
one in the air for Queensland. With the
arrival of the new Stinson liners, Bris-
bane was connected last week with Syd-
ney by a twice-a-day service except on
Sundays, when there will be one ’plane
each way. The time between the capitals
has been reduced to 31 hours. It will
now be possible to leave Brisbane at
12.30 p.m. one day, spend the evening in
Sydney and be back in Brisbane at 11.30
a.m. next day. And the Gulf looks for-
ward to the revival of old ports—Nor-
manton or Burketown and, perhaps,
Cooktown and T.l.—through the new sea-
plane route which Imperial Airways is
planning, though there may be dis-
appointment. An alternative route is
under discussion which embraces British
North Borneo, Mandated New Guinea
—Madang and Rabaul have the makings
of magnificent seaplane bases —Port
Moresby, Thursday Island and Cairns,
linking with the already established main
coastal route.
“X.T.”: There is likely to be a fight
over the location of the new Teachers’ and
University College. Townsville has been
recommended as a site by the Education
Department, but there are sure to be yells
from Cairns, which is growing faster than
any other city in the North. There is
room for much more than a teachers’ in-
stitution. A Mines and Tropical Agri-
cultural School with a research section
dealing with acclimatisation of stock
crops and timbers is a much greater need.
* # * < *
“Zedo”: Telegraph wires from Darwin
have been burning with reports of a new
armada of Japanese sampans “operating
off the North Australian coast under the
protection of a cruiser.” Nobody seems
to have seen a warship, though half
Darwin claims to have stable informa-
tion about it. Exactly what the Japanese
Navy is guarding its shell-raiders against
is not clear. Certainly not the R.A.N.,
which, almost to a man and ship (or
what is left of ships and men), was
“ Let's 'ave a bob's Worth, Bill! I ain't 'ad a good cry f'r years!"
sedulously protecting Sydney through-
out the Easter show and race week.
And if it is against Mr. Parkhill’s
new cutter a cruiser is gross extrava-
gance : a good rowing boat fitted with a
muzzle-loader would have been almost
enough. However, the Interior Minister
is confident that there is nothing in the
yarn, which he says resembles “mulga
wires, so called because nobody can be
found to take the responsibility for
them.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The business of “pass-
ing the buck,” so well understood by
politicians and officials, has been in full
blast after the report of a crude-oil depot
established on Haggerston Island and
robberies of stock and fruit on Hicks
Island by Japanese sampans. The lessee
of Hicks complained to the Minister for
Customs, somebody else complained to
the Minister for Something Else, some-
body said it was the State’s job to attend
to the matter, the Forgan Smiths cast the
foul aspersion in everyone else’s teeth,
the Minister for Customs wired the
Thursday Island sub-collector to get
busy, the sub-collector replied that' he
hadn’t any suitable craft for the job, the
imported patrol boat was still in Sydney
undergoing alterations, and the Hicks
and Haggerston residents threatened to
take drastic action to protect their pro-
perty. Some day, aliens will get shot,
and there will be added to our heavy
bills for goodwill missions some stagger-
ings items for ill-will.
sH * * *
“Wion”: Land speculation in Darwin
has become intense as a result of the pro-
posal to establish a naval and air base
there. All available town blocks are being
snatched up by indulgent parents who
hope to make fortunes for their children.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Historical Society and the A.N.A.
jointly celebrated Discovery Day on
April 29 with a party at Newstead House.
The Governor went along, as did a num-
ber of Ms.L.A., aldermen and Raphael
Cilento, president of the Historical
Society. Newstead House is still a worthy
setting for any historical pageant or cele-
bration, but presently its glory will be
shorn from it, as wharves will take up
most of the beautiful grounds.
Jean Trundle did a good job with “A
Damsel in Distress,” which she produced
at All Saints’ Hall for the Brisbane
Boys’ College and Old Collegians’
Dramatic Society. Jean Haberman, Nim
Love and George Bevan were the out-
standing players,
Cairns gets two new citizens in Doris
Wheeler and Margaret Sharpe, who are
taking over Fleurbaix Hospital. Miss
Wheeler, whose brother commanded the
34th Battalion, was abroad for 18
months, after being matron of Casino
(N.S.W.) Hospital, and served under
Lord Dawson of Penn. On her re-
turn to Sydney she made a special study
of cancer treatment under F. P. Sandes,
formerly Professor of Surgery at Sydney
University and Director of Cancer Re-
search. Miss Sharpe was a trainee of
Sydney Hospital—where many of the
leading medical men are North Queens-
landers —and in Britain and the Con-
tinent.
Not a very large attendance at the
Princess Theatre when Barbara Sisley
produced the one-act plays with which
her students did so well at the Too-
woomba Eisteddfod. “Fire Below,” which
came first in its section, was the best of
the three, and the acting of Gwen Har-
rison, who played an eerie old lady,
was up to professional standards.
Barbara’s verse-speaking choir, wearing
classic frocks of blue, made a pretty
picture against the scarlet curtains of the
background.
There was a very big attendance at the
Lady Mayoress’s reception-rooms when
Mrs. Jones gave a party for Mrs. T. J.
Ryan. Most of the guests were wives
of men associated with T.J. The Lady
Mayoress wore a floral frock, and the
guest of honor her favorite tone—grey.
A wide-brimmed hat and a posy of lilies-
of-the-valley completed it.
Eylene Gillespie married Colin Dad-
dow at St. Joseph’s Church, Kangaroo
Point, on May 1. Jean Picking, Noreen
Eliot and Marie Gillespie were the
maids.
The next three months will see the
usual influx of tourists trying to dodge
the southern winter by visiting the Bar-
rier and North Q. This year there also
is a record booking for South Queens-
land resorts. For the first time the
northern tours include Innisfail, and the
new road to the Tully Falls should tempt
tourists.
Richard Allom gave his sister away to
Lyle Kesterton at St. Augustine’s, Hamil-
ton, and Canon Birch tied the knot. The
bridal trappings were of white velvet, cut
on classical lines. A sister, Mrs. David
Addis, bride of one month, was matron
of honor, and Hazel Wearne was brides-
maid. W. Edwards, of Sydney, was, best
man, and Claude Allom groomsman.
The wedding breakfast was at the Belle
Vue, and the ’moon is being spent in the
south.
The Lady Mayoress’s reception-rooms
housed the bridge party organised by
Mrs. Forgan Smith and Mrs. Bruce
Shearer in aid of the Creche and Kin-
dergarten. Pink and red roses made the
room gay, and about 120 card-players
helped along the fund.
Two Adelaide visitors, Mrs. H. J. Wil-
kinson and Mrs. John Close, were guests
at a bright tea-party given by the Cilento
lady at Rowe’s. Another Adelaide visi-
tor, Ermyntrude Honeywell, was among
the guests.
On May 10 we are to have a pageant
of transport progress, and this State’s
first train, which has led a retired life
in the Ipswich workshops for many a
long year, is to have a day out. Railway
officers from every State in the Com-
monwealth and from M.L., who will be
here for a railway conference, will both
see and hear Billy, as well as all the latest
and largest additions to our rolling-stock.
Commissioner Davidson is arranging the
pageant, which is to commemorate the
departure of his department from the old
buildings in George-street to the new ones
in Anzac-square. Billy’s crew are to wear
the uniform of 1885.
We had two military weddings last
week. Major Cranston Albury Mc-
Eachern wed Clarice Lynagh Smith at
St. John’s Cathedral, with Major Charles
Wilson as best man and G. C. Schneider
as groomsman. The ivory-clad bride had
two eau-de-Nil frocked ’maids, Doris
Beanland and Rita Maxwell, to attend
her. There was a reception at Rowe’s,
after which the newly-weds left for the
south per car.
Lieut. Reg Swartz and Hilda Robinson
were married at St. Peter’s Church, West
End. Mrs. D. G. Munro was matron of
honor, and Beatrice Rutherford brides-
maid.
Not so very long ago Effie and Mona
Stevenson left for South Africa to join
their parents. Now comes news of Effie’s
engagement to James Swanson, of
Jo’burg. Wedding bells will ring at the
end of this year.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
(S'®!
SHEEP ARE UP
ACCORDING TO
MARKET/
mwr
‘A .
j
/r
V'S *£
'Vi
3S^SgV-
=#»
DF
ARISTOCRAT
Advertisement of Electrical Specialty Co., Ltdl7 Glebe Street, Glebe, SYDNEY.
The man on the land must “KNOW”! Months
of waiting—adverse weather conditions —market
fluctuations —all add to the problem of the pro-
ducer!
Radio, to the producer, is more than a delight—
it is absolute necessity—that is, “good radio” —
Aristrocrat radio!
When engineers designed the Aristocrat—they had
in mind the requirements of the more remote
country parts —Aristocrat had to be, above all
things, reliable. Beauty in design—and “natural”
performance will be a lasting satisfaction to the
owner of an Aristocrat —lasting because Aristo-
crat is built by craftsmen.
With an Aristocrat —the producer knows of all the -
important happenings—up to the moment reports
on weather or markets—besides having at immedi-
ate command a wealth of news and entertainment.
Whatever your requirements, A.C., D.C., local or
world-wide reception, there is an Aristocrat to suit
your purpose and at a price to suit your purse.
ALIA
PPLAUDS
Web*. PROVED
TO BE TRW# "
T
usetfall over
Australia
s
HAT
i
RATON
DIAMOND©
RADIO BATTERIES W
c(o still keep working when
others have stopped
(
DIAMOND TORCH REFILLS
hove the some P 5 qualities
of Dependability, Consistency
and Increased Service.
)
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY. LTD.
119 Hawke St., West Melb., C. 3. F 1175
RADIO NEWS
A DE LUXE AMATEUR RADIO STATION.
By DON B. KWOCK.
Perhaps the average reader, seeing
reference to amateur radio stations with
their cryptic callsigns, visualises them as
being unpretentious and made up of a
few gadgets on baseboards, garnished
with meters, coils and condensers. The
reader is mostly right, for a great many
amateur stations adopt what has come to
be known as “bread-board” layout.
There are exceptions, and in increasing
numbers. Many amateurs now take pride
in designing their stations to give a pro-
fessional appearance, and to this end the
commercial rack-and-panel construction
is used. The average amateur station so
designed usually runs to one rack
assembly for R.F. and modulator equip-
ment and another for power supply.
What may be considered the finest
example of an amateur station anywhere
in the world is the one illustrated here,
showing just what the visitor sees when
looking over W6ITH. This callsign is
well known in Australia at present on the
20-metre band, and many thousands of
listeners using dual-wave superhets must
have heard the station in conversation
with Australians. The station not only
looks good to the eye, but it works at
a high peak of efficiency. The owner-
operator, D. Reginald Tibbetts, an
exceptionally keen amateur, first chose a
particularly suitable site, and then built
his home to suit. The location is 165
Purdue-avenue, Berkeley, California,
U.S.A. The ceiling and walls of the
radio room are finished with heavy sheet
insulation material, and the lower half
of the walls covered with thick ply-wood
in order to be easily removable for wir-
ing purposes. There are five separate
transmitters in this remarkable installa-
tion, and each transmitter is complete
within itself, with all able to go on
the air at ‘the same time. All these
transmitters are of different power, and
each can be used on several bands.
Normally five bands are arranged for,
without band-changing of any trans-
mitter, these being 2}, 5, 10, 20 and 75,
and 160 metres. The largest transmitter,
which is the one heard so well in Aus-
tralia on 20 metres, is a one-kilowatt
affair, finishing up with two Eimac SOOT
giant valves in the output. The speech
equipment is comprehensive, and a crys-
tal microphone is mostly used. The final
amplifier stage of this Ikw. transmitter
can be seen in the centre rack and panel.
There are countless technical details
which it would take a book to describe
fully, but a few refinements are of par-
ticular interest. There are two electric
clocks on the top panel, one showing
Pacific standard time and the other
Greenwich mean time, very useful for
one who makes the world seem a little
fellow. In one panel is a Western Elec-
tric high-fidelity broadcast receiver,
which is used for B.C. entertainment,
amplifier testing, and for recording. All
transmitters are controlled from the
panel on the operating desk, and on
either side are the receiver and an os-
cilloscope. The latter gives a continuous
check on the radiated signal.
An ingenious over-modulation control
is fitted, and is effective in curbing excit-
able visitors who may inadvertently shout
into the microphone. The over-modula-
tion regulator automatically cuts in a 10-
d.b. loss attentuator in the speech
amplifier.
Although W6ITH is primarily a radio-
telephone station, telegraphy is used
occasionally, and for this purpose tele-
typewriters are used to send machine-
code up to 60 words per minute. In case
the reader thinks that it is a case of
affluence being able to purchase every-
thing ready-made —although Mr. Tib-
betts is blessed with the “necessary” to
buy factory-made equipment —this fine
station is home-made as far as pos-
sible. All those racks and panels are
purely home-handicraft work, which
illustrates amply the full enjoyment the
owner-operator gets out of amateur
radio. It is one thing to get apparatus
ready-made, but the real joy comes
in making up and trying out one’s own
ideas. The writer, along with many other
Australians, has enjoyed many interest-
ing chats with W6ITH.
D.B.K.
Sun-spot Cycle.
The Relation to Radio.
Because solar behavior is of a con-
stant nature there is a tendency to over-
look the fundamental role of the sun in
relation to the life of the earth. It has
risen and set every day, without changes
apparent to the naked eye, for innumer-
able ages, and philosophers have ten-
dered it respectful salutation, and then
turned to the business of studying more
changeable and apparently more interest-
ing things. A little consideration reveals
that every change in the parent of our
solar system is reflected by corre-
sponding changes' in events on earth.
Variations are relatively small, but there
are variations, though they cannot be de-
tected without delicate and refined instru-
ments. The most notable solar variation,
the cycle in the number of sun-spots, was
not discovered until early in the nine-
teenth century by a German. Since that
time the occurrence of sun-spots has been
carefully recorded. Europe first became
aware of sun-spots when Galileo directed
his optic glass on the sun in 1610, though
the Chinese had noted them over a thou-
sand years earlier. After the discovery
of 1843 that the number of sun-spots
occurring within a given time reaches a
maximum every eleventh year, efforts
were made to discover whether this 11-
year cycle appeared in any phenomena
on earth. Three observers announced
simultaneously, but independently, that
such a cycle appeared in the strength of
the earth’s magnetic field, and storms in
the field were frequently connected with
the appearance of sun-spots.
Effect on Short Waves.
Radio observations have provided in-
teresting new evidence of the influence of
the cycle on the electrical condition of
the earth. About 1923 radio amateurs
in Europe and the Pacific found that
American short-wave stations could be
picked up. In the succeeding years engi-
neers found that transmission could be
accomplished with shorter and shorter
waves. They attributed this entirely to
improvements in technique. Transmis-
sions on waves as short as 10 metres were
found effective about 1928. At this time
the 8.8.C.’s Empire service was designed,
and started with a wave of 49.6 metres.
But after a few more years very short
waves gradually became ineffective, and
the wave-length had to be increased con-
siderably. In 1934 70-90 metres had be-
come the most useful wave-length for
long-distance transmissions. The period
1922-33 included a cycle of spots from
minimum to minimum. The maximum
was about 1928, when long-distance
short-wave transmission was at its best.
This was due to increased electrification
of the upper atmosphere by the extra
strength of the ultra-violet rays emitted
by the sun during maximum sun-spot
activity. This relation between sun-spots
and wireless is now being systematically
observed during the cycle 1933-44.
QUEREX.


RADIOTRON
BATTERY SERIES
SAVE SIXPENCE EVERY WEEK
(AVERAGE USE)
The new battery-operated series of Radiotron Valves specially designed
for Australian conditions supply the two important features in radio receivers
for country use, i.e., improved performance and greater economy in operation.
When buying a battery-operated receiver see that it is equipped with the new
Australian-made Radiotrons. Their economical operation will make your
batteries last longer.
D
Radiol ron
ATTSTRAMAN GENEBAL EEECXBIC, I/TD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company. Limited.
Glass Drilling.
In radio construction the experimenter
is often hard put to it for some extra
good but inexpensive insulating material
to stand up to heavy R.F. current. Such
materials as isolantite and ceramic are
faultless, but they are un-
workable. They must be ob-
tained ready moulded, and
thus are only available in
stock lines. They are of little
use for odd jobs. Glass is a
fairly good R.F. insulator,
and is easily cut by the appli-
cation of simple glass-cutting
tools. It is also easily drilled,
but the very thought of doing
mis is enough to put tne average con-
structor off the job. In “Radio” (U.S.A.),
J. D. Kraus, W8JK, explains a method
of drilling which removes much of the
fear of cracking or breakage. A small
three-cornered file is required. Break this
off to a convenient length, say about 3in.
One end should be about the diameter
of the hole to be drilled. Three small
faces or facets are ground on this end
of the file by holding it against a grinding
wheel. These facets may make a fairly
blunt point to the file. An angle of about
45deg., as shown in the figure, works
very well. Some glassdrillers prefer a
sharper point, but this is harder to make.
The file is placed in a hand-drill chuck
in the usual manner of a small twist
drill. The drill is pressed against the
glass with a “gentle firmness” and turned
very slowly until a light crunching sound
is heard. This indicates that a nick has
been made in the surface and that the
drilling can proceed more rapidly. As
one turns the drill, the top of the drill
brace should be made to describe slowly
a circle about 6in. in diameter. This
prevents the drill from binding in the
hole. Only a moderate pressure should
be used. If the drill is a good one, it
goes through the glass like the proverbial
“Swiss cheese.” The drill chews the
glass out in the form of a white powder
at a rapid rate. An occasional drop or
two of turpentine is helpful. As one
approaches the opposite side of the plate
considerable caution should
be used. At the time that the
drill breaks through the
opposite side a click will be
heard. The drilling may then
be completed from the op-
posite side. Windows may be
drilled right in place, but this
must be done very carefully.
The safest way is to place the work flat
on a mat of newspapers.
A number of trials may be necessary
on the grinding wheel before an especi-
ally effective drill point is obtained. A
good drill will bite into the glass, and
one can easily drill an eighth-inch dia-
meter hole through an eighth-inch plate
of glass in less than two minutes. Re-
member to treat the glass with some
respect, for, although it can take a sur-
prising amount of punishment, its elasti-
city is limited. It takes such a short time
to drill holes by this method that it is
wise to make a few practice holes before
drilling a choice piece of glass.
Makeshift High-gain Triodes.
Of late there has been a good deal
written and said regarding the use of
screen-god and screen-pentode tubes as
high-gain triodes. Such tubes as the
6C6 and others are recommended by the
makers as being suitable for such use.
At a pinch any screen-grid “bottle” may
be used, as proved by the writer. In a
P.A. system using one 56 feeding two
other 56’s, which in their turn fed the
final valves, a radio tuner was used re-
quiring (among others) a , type 56 as an
audio stage.
One week-end misfortune befell one
of the 56’s, and there was no spare. A
combination socket-and-base was rigged
up from an old UY valve base and a
ditto Marquis socket with a grid cap on
the end of a lead. In succession, a type
24, a 35, a 57 (with six-to-five-pin
adaptor) and a 58 (also with adaptor)
were tried, and results were almost uni-
formly good. The type 57 showed the
most gain, and was quite equal, as far as
the ear could judge, to the 56 which it
replaced. It worked just as well in the
audio stage in the tuner chassis as in
the “phase inverter” R.C, stage of the
main amplifier. The adaptor is now
a permanent piece of gear, and, since
screen-grids and screen-pentodes in vary-
ing stages of emission are more plentiful
with the writer than triodes, has proved
its worth many times over.
R.H.A.
Half-wave Doublet Aerials.
Length-frequency Relation.
In recent years the twisted-pair form
of doublet aerial has achieved great
popularity, both for general short-wave
listening and amateur transmission. The
following table of lengths of wire for
“This station is now closing down for fifteen minutes."
frequencies within the most-used
amateur bands is compiled by W6AAR
in the current issue of “Radio” (U.S.A.).
The lengths given are quite accurate for
wire sizes between Nos. 8 and 14. If
the aerial is less than a quarter-wave
above earth the length may have to be
reduced as much as 3 p.c.
Kc. Length. Kc. Length.
Ft. In. Ft. In.
3500 .... 133 8 14,000 .... 33 5
3550 131 10 14,050 33 3
3600 .... 130 0 14,100 .... 33 2
3650 .... 128 2 14,150 .... 33 1
3700 .... 126 5 14,200 .... 32 11
3750 .... 124 9 14,250 .... 32 10
3800 .... 123 1 14,300 .... 32 9
3850 .... 122 0 14,350 .... 32 7
3900 .... 120 5 14,400 .... 32 6
3950 .... 118 5 28,000 .... 16 Si-
-4000 .... 117 0 28,250 .... 16 6i
7000 .... 66 10 28,500 .... 16 5
7050 .... 66 4 28,750 16 3i
7100 .... 65 11 29,000 .... 16 H
7150 .... 65 5 29,250 .... 16 0
7200 .... 65 0 29,500 .... 15 10i
7250 .... 64 6 29,750 .... 15 8*
7300 .... 64 1 30,000 .... 15 7i
A.W.A. announces that Sydney broad-
casting station 2CH will be managed by
the co. in future. Plans are in hand for
an extension of the operating hours. A
new transmitter, almost completed, will
be in use at an early date.
Amateur and Short-wave Radio
Exhibition.
Next month the N.S.W. Division of the
Wireless Institute of Australia will con-
duct the first experimental amateur and
short-wave radio exhibition to be held
on a large scale in N. S. Wales.
The exhibition will be located in the
Lower Hall, Presbyterian Assembly
Building, Wynyard-square, and will run
for a week, starting Monday, June 15,
and concluding Saturday, June 20.
The various commercial organisations
with apparatus available for amateur and
short-wave enthusiasts are co-operating,
and will be exhibiting all the latest im-
ported and locally manufactured equip-
ment. There will be a television
demonstration, transmitters working on
all bands, ultra-high-frequency demon-
strations, a first-class lecture every night,
and possibly military signal demon-
strations.
K. B. Warner, secretary of the
A.R.R.L. and 1.A.R.U., has been
approached to open the exhibition via
W2XAF, the N.B.C. station in New
York, and A.W.A. has kindly offered to
take the broadcast through La Perouse
and to permit replies to be transmitted
back through VK2ME.
To cater for the amateur transmitter
and short-wave listener, competitions
have been arranged, one series for affili-
ated clubs, another .for amateurs in
general.
Under the first section there are two
competitions— (a) the “Wireless Weekly”
Cup, to be awarded for the best stall ex-
hibit of an affiliated club to the institute;
(b) three prizes, £3 35., £2 2s. and £1 Is.,
for the best pieces of apparatus contained
on those stalls. The prizes have been
donated by “Wireless Weekly.”
The second series comprises six sec-
tions, (a) to (/). First, second and third
prizes are awarded in each section;
donor is mentioned in parentheses after
award.
(а) The most efficiently designed and cor-
rectly built multi-band transmitter. First,
Philips 50-watt transmitting pentode
(Philips); second, £5 ss. open order for
filter condensers (Ducon Condenser Pty.,
Ltd.); third, 801 transmitting valve (The
Bulletin).
(б) The most efficiently designed and cor-
rectly built amateur receiver. First, seven
Radiotrons, to be selected (A.W.A. Valve
Co.); second, Ferranti milliameter (Noyes
Bros.); third, dual-wave superhet kit
(R.C.S. Radio).
( c ) The most compact and complete port-
able station. First, split-stator transmitting
condenser (Colville Radio); second, three
6P6 transmitting valves (A.W.A. Valve
Co.); third, 300-mil. filter choke (R.C.S.
Radio).
(d) The best U.H.F. transmitter. First,
two Acorn valves, 954 and 955, and a 6L7
(A.W.A. Valve Co.); second, £2 2s. (J.
Moyle, Esq., “Wireless Weekly”); third,
£1 Is. (Mr. A. F. Sutton).
(e) The best U.H.F. transmitter. First,
two TCO3/s’s (Philips); second, Hammar-
lund transmitting condenser (J. B. Martin,
Ltd.); third, five-metre R.F. chokes and
interrupter unit (R.C.S. Radio).
(/) The best example of a piece of appa-
ratus, excluding gear that could be exhibited
in sections (a) and (e) (this would include
wave meter, P.A., monitor, key, mike, etc.).
First, Xtal microphone (Price’s Radio
Service); second, line filter (R.C.S. Radio);
third, four special R.F. chokes (R.C.S.
Radio).
It is necessary to include with each
entry a description of the apparatus and
points of merit and circuit design.
Points will be awarded for (a) design,
(b) workmanship, (c) covering descrip-
tion.
The competitions are open to all
members of the institute and affiliated
clubs and to all other short-wave experi-
menters ; fee 2s. 6d. Prior entries are
not required, although anyone entering
large transmitters should advise the sec-
retary to that effect.
Entries will be received from 10 a.m.
till 6.30 p.m. Monday, June 15.
One section of the hall has been set
aside for trade exhibits, and the follow-
ing firms will be exhibiting: Philips,
R.C.S., Ducon, A.W.A. Valve Co., Price’s
Radio Service, Colville, Noyes Bros.,
J. B. Martin, Amplion, and also
“Wireless Weekly” and The Bulletin.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Recently I constructed the five-watt home
amplifier ( B. 11/12/’35). On completion
operation was not up to expectation. This was
put down to a poor pickup. A new one was
tried with little better results. Next a per-
magnetic speaker was substituted for the sepa-
rately excited dynamic, and the results were
at first very pleasing, but after an hour’s opera-
tion volume dropped and distortion appeared.
In the circuit in B. you show the choke-con-
denser lead from the power-supply side of the
audio choke. The amplifier was wired like
this, and of course did not work. On the
other side of the choke I get results. (1) What
can be the cause of this erratic operation ? (2)
Everything is clear {see diagram enclosed),
except the drain of the first two valves.
Together these take \Ama. With the second
removed the drain of the first is Ima., but a
similar test for the second shows a drain of
10.5ma.—410.
The incorrect lead was due to a draughting
error, but the correct position for this is
obvious. The coupling condenser must be
included. (1) A leaking grid-coupling con-
denser could be responsible, or there may be
a faulty valve. In a case like this a careful
process of elimination should be pursued by
substitution of components of similar value.
A mica condenser, for instance, can sometimes
be guilty of leakage, although rarely, and this
would put a positive bias on the grid of the
following audio stage in, the case of condenser
grid-coupling. Faulty cathode bias electro-
lytic condensers could also be responsible for
the trouble. There is nothing wrong with the
design of the amplifier; the original has been
in almost daily service since it was described.
(2) A matter of difference in cathode biasing
and voltage distribution, with one stage free
from load.
* * * *
I recently read “Outline of Wireless,” by
Stranger. Recent wireless developments are
not dealt with, and the more modern valves
are not mentioned. Is there any book recently
published which goes fully into modern prac-
tice with reference to short wave particularly ?
—4ll.
Although published in the interests of
amateur transmitters mainly, no better books
could be recommended than The Radio
Amateur’s Handbook, published by the
A.R.R.L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A., and the
Radio Handbook, published by Pacific Pub-
lications, Pacific Buildings, San Francisco,
U.S.A. In Australia, these cost 7s. 6d. each,
and can be obtained through Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.


USEFUL DATA ON HUDSON EIGHT.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 9 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 6 1-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 3 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 85.3 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 20.6 m.p.g.
«SILVER
EOGt••
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes I
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As{ for “Raybcstos” which has proved itself over many years of service,
RAYBESTOS-BF LA r O LTD., lONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC,
LONG EXPERIENCE
mdkss SHORT WORK of pumping
ss^*ss£“»*
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market-for quicker, easier
tyre inflation—for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small high-
pressure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
\
less Gauge
sj m extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ with a
RENRUT
dUADMJPLC
HAND PtIMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
A Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
sdl TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
===»} England.
The Steering Column.
SPLENDID PERFORMANCE OF
HUDSON EIGHT ON TEST COURSE.
PASSENGER COMFORT, ROADWORTHINESS AND
SAFETY INCREASED BY NEW DESIGN.
BY FRED BERRY.
EQUIPPED with an engine which on full throttle delivers
* approximately one brake-horsepower for each inch of
chassis wheelbase, the 1936 Hudson Eight Custom sedan,
tested' recently over the “Bulletin” course, worthily upholds
the family tradition so far as road performance is concerned.
Of greater interest, perhaps, to motorists are the new ideas
that have been included in this year’s design with the object of
rendering these powerful and speedy machines safer and easier
to handle under all driving conditions while improving
passenger comfort and seating accommodation to a marked
degree.
Front-end design, exclusive to Hudson-
Terraplane cars, provides two massive
torque arms, extending from the solid
front axle to the chassis members, to
relieve the front springs of twisting
stresses when brakes are applied, thereby
considerably improving roadworthiness
and steering qualities. Bodywork is all-
steel, the pressed-steel floor being used
as an additional bracing member to
the already rigid chassis. Special
attention has been given to methods
of insulation and deadening sound
or “drumming.” Mechanical brakes
have been discarded in favor of
the now popular and highly
efficient hydraulic system, but
with commendable caution an
auxiliary mechanical set is fitted
to rear wheels.
The engine, with Power dome
high-compression aluminium cyl-
inder head (7 to 1), develops 124
b.h.p. at 4000 r.p.m., giving a
power-weight ratio of approxi-
mately one horse-power to each
301 b. weight of car.
The power curve rises steeply
from comparatively low revs., 80
h.p. being delivered at 2000 r.p.m.
and 95 at 2400 r.p.m., thereby per-
mitting high cruising speeds with-
out fuss or power-roar. Bore is
Sin. and stroke 4iin.; piston displace-
ment 254.4 cub. in.; R.A.C. rating 28.8
h.p. Cylinder block and upper half of
crankcase are cast integrally, the lower
half of crankcase being heavily ribbed
internally to support main bearings and
preserve alignment of crankshaft. Metal
used in the casting is a high chrome
Hudson braking system, showing primary hydraulic system
and reserve mechanical system. A, rotary equaliser; B1,
hydraulic brakes take effect at this point when pedal applied ;
82, position where reserve mechanical brakes are applied,
the “pick-up” nut having travelled far enough to actuate
the rotary equaliser.
alloy of great hardness and wear-resist-
ing qualities.
Pistons, each with three pinned com-
pression rings above the gudgeon pin
Room for three abreast on both front and rear seats in this all-steel-bodied
Hudson Eight.
and one oil-retaining ring in the lower
part of the skirt, are of T-slot, low-
expansion, cam-ground type, made of
silicon aluminium alloy. Gudgeon pins
are full-floating, with bronze bushings,
and are kept in position by steef lock
rings.
Connecting rods, of special steel, drop-
forged, are of I beam section, the com-
plete assembly of
rod, piston and
bearings being in-
dividually weighed
before assembly
and matched with-
in exceedingly close
limits to preserve
balance and avoid
vibration.
The crankshaft,
running o n five
main bearings, is of
special compen-
sated Hudson de-
sign, balanced stati-
cally and dynami-
cally and fitted with
eight compensating
weights forged in-
tegral with the
shaft. A clutch-type
torsional vibration damper is fitted to the
forward end of the shaft. All main and
connecting-rod bearings are bronze-
backed and babbitt-lined.
The camshaft, of specially hardened
alloy steel, runs on five babbitt-lined
bearings, and is driven by silent helical
gears from the crankshaft. The tappet
gear is of roller-cam design, provision
being made to maintain intimate contact
between tappet and cam, reducing noise
and minimising wear.
Side-by-side valves are fitted, intakes
being of ni-chrome steel, exhausts of sili-
chrome alloy. Valve stems and guides
are larger than in previous models, pro-
viding greater strength and reducing the
possibility of distortion or sticking. Valve
springs are cadmium-plated and equipped
with specially-designed cups, fitting over
the lower coils, to maintain alignment
and prevent flutter at high engine revs.
A Carter, triple venturi down-draught
carburettor, fitted with automatic choke,
vapor lock relief valve, air cleaner and
silencer, is attached to a Hudson design
radial intake manifold, allowing the
incoming gases a straight path and un-
restricted flow into the combustion
chamber. Hot gas from the rear cylinders
is taken from the exhaust manifold and
carried round the intake jacket to pre-
heat fuel and promote even running
instantly when starting from cold.
The fuel tank, swung between the rear
dumb irons, has a capacity of 13 gallons,
and fuel is delivered to the carburettor
by pipe lines outside the channel section
by means of a mechanical pump driven
from the camshaft.
The engine is lubricated by the Hudson
patented Duo-flow system, oil being
drawn by a double gear-type pump and
delivered through
separate pipes of large
diameter to each end
of the motor, from
which the streams of
oil flow through the
various units and
meet again in the
centre, thus circulat-
ing twice as much oil
in a given time as
was previously pos-
sible.
Big-end bearings
are lubricated by oil
collected by scoops
which are attached to
the bottom halves and which dip into
trays at each revolution of the crankshaft.
A telltale light located on the instrument
panel warns the driver should the oil
level become dangerously low.
The cooling system has been re-
designed. The vane-type pump is in-
creased in size, and a thermostatic valve
at the front of the cylinder head causes
Power curve of Hudson Eight motor.
Upper curve with 7-to-1 power-dome
head and lower curve with 6-to-1 head.
cooling water to return immediately
through a bypass to the engine until the
water has reached a set temperature.
The electrical system is six-
volt, of the separate-unit type.
Generator is of high-output,
voltage-regulated, third-brush
type, with fan-forced venti-
lation, permitting of a con-
tinuous charging rate of 22
amperes. Maximum charge is
attained at a road speed of 28
m.p.h. in top gear. Bendix
starting system is used, the
starter button being located on
the dash.
Ignition is by coil and bat-
tery, full automatic advance
and retard being provided in
the distributor unit, with manually con-
trolled octane selector to compensate
for values of various fuels. Plugs are
of 14 m.m. type.
The engine is mounted in the chassis
at three points on live-rubber cushions.
Transmission is through a single-plate,
cork-insert, oil-cushioned clutch, with
automatic vacuum-operated withdrawal
mechanism as an optional fitting to
a synchro-shift, three-speed-and-reverse
gearbox fitted with central control lever.
All pinions are silent helical-cut type.


JMKJROIT
ll
I
o
ro
&
€
rVvvf
t
MOTOR OIL
j*OTO«
FD
A QUICK START BELOW ZERO
ATO matter the heat of the day, or under what
conditions you are motoring whether it be
the coldest morning, through snow or ice-covered
roads, you need have no fear concerning the
smooth running of your car truck or tractor
when VEEDOL is in the sump.
VEEDOL Motor Oil is tested and guaranteed to
withstand the most intensive heat and cold known
to chemical science. Despite its superiority,
VEEDOL* costs no more.
V3O
NEPT U N COIL COM PAN V DM ITED • All States
LEACE
The sooner
a cur is
SIMONIZED
the better
SOLiD BY ALili GOOD MOTOE riTOBES.
SMALL. 2/6; BARGE. 5/-.
FOR quiet,
quick shift
and easy
start
LEMI
-ywt &
ALEMITE”
these
parts
E
m
o
Stands for
"ALEMITE”
which means correct lubrica-
tion under high pressure of all
hearings and metal contacts
in a motor vehicle. All dirt,
sand, grit are forced out ...
new, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant is forced in to give protec-
tion and increase efficiency.-
Wf iRWIRKHIIIIbIWIHH
\L/> CjlfiriY demands lubrication of
year highest quality. Alemite
has developed protection for the three types of gear
in general use and for all seasonal conditions.
Never w grease” the gears in the transmission—in-
sist Special Gear Lubricant every 3000
to 4000 miles and note the better performance.
Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. I). S. A.
Cable Address : ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars from MB. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N, S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—2-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE MOTOR
“Electric Hand” fingertip-control gear-
shift is an optional fitting.
Low and reverse gears are automati-
cally demeshed when running in neutral
or other gear, and an interlocking device
prevents slipping from gear in any ratio.
Final drive is through an open tubular
propeller shaft with roller-bearing, metal
universal joints at either end to a semi-
floating rear axle assembly in a banjo-
type pressed-steel housing. Crown wheel
and pinion are spiral bevel, and the final
reduction ratio is 4.11 to 1.
The chassis is deep box section with
KX girder-type cross-bracing, the whole
frame being farther strengthened by a
pressed-steel floor. Wheelbase of car
tested was 120 in. A wheelbase of 127 in.
is optional.
Springs are conventional semi-elliptic
type front and rear, rear springs being
splayed. U-type threaded self-adjusting
shackles are fitted throughout, and a live-
rubber pad is positioned between springs
and axles.
Hydraulic shock-absorbers of the
direct-acting telescopic type are fitted to
each spring anchorage.
The front axle is solid and fitted with
radial safety control, using two heavy-
section drop-forged torque arms attached
by yokes adjacent to each spring anchor-
age and at the other extremity to a frame
member. This design permits the axle
to move vertically without restriction, but
prevents twisting stresses from being
transmitted to springs and steering con-
nections when brakes are applied. Wheels
are pressed-steel spoke, fitted with 16 x
6.25 tyres, width of tread at front being
56in. and at rear Minimum road
clearance under differential is 8 7-16 in.
Steering gear has been redesigned, the
Tru-Line system having a worm and
Phantom view of radial safety control on Hudson front axle.
Note heavy forged torque arms connecting axle to frame
member.
sector gear with reduction of 17 to 1.
Turning circle is 42ft. The steering
column is adjustable to most suitable
driving angle.
Service braking equipment is Duo-
automatic hydraulic type on all four
wheels, the shoe assembly being servo-
acting. Brake drums are of alloy steel,
machined and polished. Emergency and
parking brakes are mechanically operated
through rods and cables, and are attached
to the rear wheels only. Operation is by
“umbrella”-type hand control, located in
a convenient position under the cowl.
Bodywork is of unit steel construction,
sides, floors, ends and roof all being of
Cutaway section of Hudson clutch, show-
ing cork inserts, cushion springs and
withdrawal mechanism.
pressed-steel, wood only being used across
the top for the purpose of attaching
trimming. Sheets of muffle board are
cemented in the roof to prevent vibration
and drumming.
Particular attention has been paid to
ventilation, front and rear quarter
windows being of the “draughtless” type.
An automatic draught eliminator beneath
the rear seat admits fresh air to replace
that drawn out through the windows by
suction as the car is in motion.
Front and rear seat's are of exception-
ally liberal width, the front seat being
adjustable for
length. A commo-
dious rear com-
partment is pro-
vided for luggage
space.
The instrument
panel is neatly ar-
ranged and indi-
rectly lighted. A
large speedometer
is flanked by elec-
tric fuel-gauge and
water temperature
indicator. Red teil-
tale lights are fitted
to indicate whether
the oiling and elec-
trical systems are
functioning, and a green telltale indicates
headlights. A parcel compartment of
generous dimensions is located in the
dash.
The windscreen, of non-breakable glass,
is of the V type, and is fitted with dual
vacuum-operated wipers.
The car tested was a Custom four-
door Hudson Eight sedan driven by B.
L. Tyson, of Dalgety and Co., N.S.W.
distributors, and weighed, with two
passengers, driver and full fuel tank,
35£cwt.
Speedometer reading stood at 1232 miles,
and the motor appeared quiet and free
from vibration. Acceleration in top gear
when negotiating traffic was amazing,
and the braking equipment correspond-
ingly good. On the open road a cruising
speed of a mile a minute can be attained
with ease and comparative safety, whilst
average main-road hills are negotiated
without diminution of speed in top gear
on a very small throttle opening. As
indicated by the result of the rolling test
(727 yards from a speed of 15 m.p.h.
in neutral) all transmission details are
free from undue friction and are in per-
fect alignment.
In testing maximum speed difficulty
was experienced on reaching full speed
in the limited space available in the run
up to the measured mile, and as a conse-
quence the speedometer moved from
80 to 90 m.p.h. on the timed section.
Time taken, 42 l-ssec., showed an
average speed of 85.3 m.p.h., but the
actual maximum under fair conditions
would be round the 90 mark.
Suspension, tested on the rough un-
made road through Grose Vale, was
satisfactory, and on the final 2 1-5 miles
of Kurrajong Mountain, climbed from a
standing start in the fast time of 2min.
59 l-ssec., the Hudson held the road par-
ticularly well and negotiated the difficult
bends at speed in a most roadworthy
manner.
Returning down the mountain, emer-
gency brakes were tested and found effi-
cient and smooth in operation.
On the Castlereagh-road further tests
were made. On the slow-running and
accelerated section the 350 yards slow in
top was clocked in 3min. Bsec., average
3.8 m.p.h.; while on full throttle the
finishing line was crossed at 65 m.p.h.,
time taken, 14 4-ssec., averaging 48.6
m.p.h.
Accelerating from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top and second in 6 l-ssec. and 3 4-ssec.
respectively and from a standing start to
50 m.p.h. in 9 2-ssec., the Hudson proved
conclusively its amazing flexibility.
From 25 m.p.h. the hydraulic brakes
stopped the vehicle in 20ft. 6in. At the
conclusion of the test, 124 miles, at an
average speed of 38.2 m.p.h., six gallons
exactly of fuel were required to replenish
the tank, an average consumption of
20.6 m.p.g. (36.3 ton miles).
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
I.S.P. (Camperdown, N.S.W.). —(1) Can
preparation named be recommended for
use in oil on my ’36 model car ? (2) Would
upper-cylinder lubricant named be advan-
tageous, how long should it be used and how
much ?
(1) No definite information available. (2)
It is of good quality. Use approx. 16oz. each
1000 miles and keep on indefinitely.
W.D. (Parkes, N.S.W.). —(1) I have just had
a generator of my ’26 model car rewound, and
though the brushes aret as far over as possible
it shows only 10 amps. Is winding in order ?
(2) Will a six-volt generator do to charge a
four-volt battery, and how should it be con-
nected ?
(1) Normal charging rate of this model is
approximately 10 amps. After this heating is
likely to occur. (2) Yes, but better results
can be obtained if a resistance is placed in the
circuit cutting the voltage at the battery to
4.5 volts.
O.J.A. (Mackay, Q.). —My ’34 model car
(18,000 miles ) averaged better than 20 m.p.g.
until last month, when a mechanic overhauled
the engine, ground in valves and dismantled
carburettor and fuel pump. Since then the
consumption has dropped to 12 m.p.g., and
whenever the engine is warm pungent fumes
of petrol enter the driver’s compartment. Any
suggestions ?
Provided the motor is still pulling well, excess
consumption may be due to incorrect assembly
of either fuel pump or carburettor. In either
case, if the gasket is not truly located petrol
will escape when engine is running, and, in the
case of the carburettor, unless the gasket is an
exact fit it will prevent the needle valve from
seating and so cause continuous flooding.


THE AGE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS! —
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Cbe mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
If we could
only tell YOU
What WE know
about our
customers’ results
THEN . . .
Everyone with
Goods to Sell
would “be in”
'The News”
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
Representation :
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE —A. G. ' Pike. First Floor
Newsnauer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON —F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludeate
Hill. &.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
■ retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington's Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Aclvt,
Department, News, jLtcl., Adelaide.
Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-H-E SATUR.D
tVtNING
Is published and circulates in Eaunceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-East,
North-West, and the Midlands. No papers are
published on Sundays in Tasmania; therefore,
advertise in “The Saturday Evening Express”
for the Sunday readers.
Pull information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
6AM
1000 WATTS
The
Happy Station
•
23 William St.,
Penh, W.A.
Wake up to the
opportunities that
6AM offers you.
The great markets
of the West
pastoralis ts
miners wheat
farmers —all wait-
ing for you to
reach them
through 6AM—
the station that
is received
everywhere.
Bill’s friendship with Atherton had developed
from his early appreciation of the man’s uncomplain-
ing stoicism, his ceaseless endeavors to show a brave
face to his daughter and to the world. Then the
courtly charm of the elder man, his invincible optim-
ism regarding affairs and people—a quality that had
almost ruined him financially—and his serene philo-
sophy of life made the younger man look forward with
increasing pleasure to the evenings and their talks
in the warm lamplight. Within a week of their meet-
ing the two men had reached an intimacy that could
not have been surpassed had they been father and son.
Elaine, watching them unobserved, would bite
her lip at the contrariness of Bill, Why could he
not behave toward her as unaffectedly as he did toward
her father? There was always present that feeling
of studied reserve in his manner—a hedge that shut
her off much as, Mac and Bessie were barred from
the world by a strip of garden. She tried hard to
stir him into a return of the old nonsensical gaiety
of their Longreach days, but the most she got was
a tolerant smile that turned the injured side of his face
to a sardonic mask that baffled her beyond measure.
On one or two occasions she succeeded in pene-
trating his armor and getting a glimpse of the care-
free Lancelot she had known. That day they mustered
the horses stood out in her memory. Bill had appre-
ciated her then, the admiration in his eyes when they
got the horses to the yard was honest, unforced and
something she treasured. Although she was virtually
the boss—they were on her property, mustering her
horses —she had obeyed his curt, shouted orders with-
out question and enjoyed doing it.
Then later, when Bill started to break in the
brown mare, she slipped across to the yard unobserved
and watched his quiet, patient methods gradually over-
coming the rebellious mare. Imagining himself alone
he had relapsed into the easy, colorful language that
is the natural inheritance of all who handle fractious
horses and cattle, and some of the drawled remarks
anent the mare’s ancestry as he dodged a vicious strike
of her hoof made it hard for Elaine to keep from
giggling aloud.
One morning Bill led the mare across to the
homestead and paraded her before the verandah for
the benefit of the invalid. The old man’s eyes lit at
the sight of her. He had not seen the mare for over
a year, and then only a distant glimpse of a wild
thing dashing for the safety of the hills. She glanced
nervously from side to side at her strange surround-
ings, fidgeted around the man, and once gave him
an impatient push with her nose, but Atherton noticed
that wherever the man moved she moved with him,
close as his shadow. Although only a few' days ago
she had run wild and untouched, she showed not the
slightest inclination to revolt. She had learned the
first part of her lesson and learned it well,
“When are you going to ride her. Bill?” he
queried.
“This evening, I think.”
The old man peered regretfully at ,the distant
yard, then his glance came back to the mare,., her
virgin back smooth and unmarked. Finally it lingered,
full of a vague longing, on the man. A slow smile
gathered on Bill’s features as he read the unspoken
thought. , . - /■ ■■ f. >
“I’ll carry you over to the yard if you like,* pro-
vided Elaine doesn’t mind. She may have to carry
you back if the mare scores a win 6ver me.”.
Afternoon-tea over, they made him comfortable
in his long chair just outside the horse-yard, where
he lay back with eyes glinting with anticipation under
half-closed lids. The mare, already saddled, eyed
the little group of spectators with nervous foreboding,
champing incessantly at the bit her mouth had not
yet got used to, and ever and anon glancing back
from the corner of an eye at the saddle on her back
as though dreading its purport.
She eyed Bill distrustfully despite his soothing
hands as he slipped the reins over her ears and took
a shortened grip of the glossy mane. At the feel of
the toe in the stirrup and the increasing pull on the
saddle the mare crouched slowly back on her haunches
like a dog preparing to spring, and Elaine, peering
through the rails, felt a return of the desire to make
Bill hurry, to drop that irritating casualness, to warn
him of the impending danger.
Then she got a shock. Her worried frown
changed to startled wonder as Bill suddenly appeared
seated in the saddle with both feet in the stirrup-irons.
The lightning movement had apparently confounded
the mare as well. She held herself tense, rigid, lean-
ing back on sloping legs with every muscle standing
ou! in bold relief under the velvet skin, then with
one swift bound she whirled and plunged high in
the air.
Elaine stepped quickly back from the rails, her
hand at her throat as the mare hit the ground stiff-
legged with a shock like a piledriver, and no sooner
had she landed than she was up again, whirling as
she went.
The invalid gripped the chair-arms in his thin
hands, dragging his wasted frame forward, his thin
nostrils dilated with excitement, his glittering eyes
concentrated on the battle and missing never a move.
He held his breath as the mare changed her tactics
and bucked savagely backwards, her head, high, twist-
ing viciously in midair, but the rider was with her
all the way, sitting confidently in the saddle, holding
the loose reins by the buckle in one hand, the other,
thrown clear as though balancing an imaginary stock-
whip. ' .
The mare bucked with a silent, savage intensity.
No callow two-year-old this, but a fully-matured
animal with an inheritance of five years’ freedom to
fight for. Three rapid,-swerving. bucks, dipping till
; the stirrup-irons hit the ground, soaring high in the
air till the wide-eyed girl, dinging to the rails, saw
daylight show under the girths, but never between the
man and the saddle. - A 'thick, choking dust rose
and hung in'the windless air, powdering the uncon-
scious spectators and veiling the battle with a yellow
haze.
Suddenly the mare reared high in the air, striking
stiffly with her fore feetjus she stood almost upright.
Elaine’s heart stopped beating ; she pressed a crumpled
handkerchief to her lips to suppress the desire to
scream as the mare poised on the very verge of balance
for an unconscionable age, with the rider leaning for-
ward on its neck grasping a handful of mane, then
it dropped forward like a bullet, and before the fore
feet reached the ground the hind legs kicked high in
the air. v, .
Again it reared, and this .time the spectators were
not left in doubt. It soared to the zenith of balance,
passed it and toppled backwards and sideways on
the rider. The old man saw them disappear in a
cloud of dust. Only the white-faced girl sensed rather
than saw the quick movement that freed the rider.
The mare hit the ground with a thud that made her
grunt and knocked the wind out of her, but the man
landed clear with the reins still in his hand, and as
the mare scrambled convulsively to her feet he was
back in the saddle. . She stood still, dripping with
sweat, one side encrusted with dust, then the tension
ebbed from her corded muscles and she shook her
head in reluctant admission of defeat.
That night Bill and the invalid talked horse un-
disturbed. Elaine passed noiselessly through the room
just once, leaving them barely conscious of her pres-
ence. But alone in the sanctity of her darkened room
she sat staring wide-eyed through the doorway into
the warm, black night, grappling with the problem
that was becoming unbearable. ;
Chapter XXV.
BILL hung up the receiver and paused by the tele-
phone in the darkening hall doing some quick
thinking. Then he crossed to his room, changed
back into the working clothes he had worn all day
and slipped quietly out to the horse-paddock. The
sun had set behind a dark bank of clouds that was
fast extending across the sky, and there was every
indication of a storm before morning. Over in the
pines the magpies were settling down for the night
with a final burst of song to uphold their reputation
for being last home and first out in the morning.
It was quite dark when he returned, and as he
stepped on to the verandah a figure rose from a deck-
chair.
“Is that you, Bill?”
“Hullo, Elaine! Sorry I’m late. Do you mind
if I come to dinner without changing?”
“Of course not!” She peered curiously at him
in the khaki shirt and moleskins, indistinct in the dark-
ness. “I thought I saw you changed for dinner a
long time ago!”
“I was, as a matter of fact.” He hesitated and
glanced carefully along the dark verandah as though
afraid of being overheard. “But I’ve got to go out
again after dinner.”
“Do you want the car?”
“No ; I’ve got a couple of horses in the yard, and
I don’t know when I’ll be back.”
“A couple of horses! Are you taking someone
with you?” She stared at the indistinct blur of
his features, then perplexity gave way to a surge of
indignation. “Bill, what is all the mystery about?
Why am I being kept in the dark?”
“I’m sorry, Elaine! We expect a raid to-night
and I’m taking the policeman out to the back paddock.
He’s on his way from town by car now. I didn’t
want to worry you till the job was cleared up and
finished.”
“I see!” she blazed out, and the man started at
the bitter tone. The weeks of overwork and worry
had momentarily broken down the girl’s resistance,
and all her repressed, scarcely-acknowledged thoughts
came crowding to the surface.
“All you’re interested in is putting someone in
prison for stealing our sheep so that you’ll be able
to ride back to your wonderful Queensland and your
marvellous horses! Well, you needn’t let our affairs
trouble you any more! I’m very sorry you’ve been
detained here against your will. And as far as the
sale of Camelot is concerned you may consider it
off, so you’re at liberty to leave as soon as you like!”
{To he continued next week.)


K-:
%
x
rr
?%
W
1
V V
r
LUCKY GIRL
She has vivid, snapping eyes. Her hair glistens with life.
Her skin is smooth and firm: Her clear complexion is not the
kind that comes from cosmetics. Her figure is supple and robust.
She has a pleasant, vital personality. Men admire her—and so
do women.
A lucky girl, you say. Not exactly. Just a normal healthy
girl. The kind of person nature meant every girl of her age to
be. And yet, in a way, she is lucky.
Her Mother Knew What To Do
Most girls (and young men, too) pass through a time when
their faces are pimply and their complexions poor. They lack
energy and interest. The danger is that their complexions may
be permanently marked or that they may contract serious
constitutional ailments.
The best thing to do at such a time, as this girl’s mother
knew, is to keep the digestion and elimination functioning as
perfectly as possible. And for that purpose Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are excellent. They are laxative—gently and surely
eliminating waste matter from the bowels. They stimulate the
digestive organs, increasing the flow of digestive secretions.
They help to “tone up” and cleanse the digestive tract.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purely vegetable, and
contain no minerals or habit-forming drugs. They make you
feel brighter.
Dr.MORSES
I
PILLS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
for Simple Constipation and Attendant Ills
ill
DANGEROUS
PARASITES
Worms Cause Havoc
in the System.
Worms are parasites. That is, they live in
the body by absorbing digested food intended
to nourish the body. The two commonest types
of worms found in human beings are Thread
Worms and Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat Worms or
Pin Worms) are most common. They are
about one-quarter of an inch long, resembling
a piece of thread. They live in the lower
bowel in considerable numbers, particularly
in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach Worms)
are frequently found in humans, both adults
and children. They resemble earth worms in
shape and may grow to a length of twelve
inches. They inhabit the small intestines, but
may occasionally get into the stomach and be
vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them
form a tangled mass and impede the intestines.
All worms breed rapidly. Their eggs are con-
tinually discharged in the waste matter and
may infect others. These eggs may be carried
by flies, on the hair of household pets, in raw
food, in drinking water or merely by contact
with earth in which they lie.
Symptoms.—The symptoms of worm infec-
tion are many and often obscure. Itching of
the nose is the most common indication of pin
worms. Round worms may cause nausea,
upset or swollen stomach, desire to vomit,
voracious appetite and craving for strange
foods. Either type may result in diarrhoea,
restless sleep, grinding teeth, a bluish look
about the eyes, nervousness and irritability.
In children convulsions sometimes occur. The
danger to the person infected by worms is not
so much in the symptoms themselves as in
certain results which may follow. The continual
irritation of the digestive tract may cause
a number of digestive disorders. The strain
on the nervous system may also bring more
serious trouble. The general vitality is
lowered, the patient feels tired and weak,
the natural safeguards of the body against
disease are lowered and grave ailments may
be contracted.
Many physicians now believe that worms
are often a cause of appendicitis. It is
certain that worms are sometimes found in
the appendix.
Treatment. —For home treatment it is best
to use a specific medicine which will kill or
stupefy the worms and follow it with a laxa-
tive so that the worms and eggs will be ex-
pelled in the waste matter. Several treatments
should be taken to assure that any eggs which
may remain will not start the trouble anew.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets arc
made for just one purpose—to promote the
death of round and pin worms. A Specific
Medicine, they act on the worms only, and
can be given in cases where the presence of
worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price
2/- per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
If writing, mention this paper.
MIRPIL
The Ideal Skin Lotion.
In addition to its excellent cooling and
soothing properties in cases of Windburn and
Sunburn, Mirpil has many other uses.
Smeared on the face and hands, it keeps
away mosquitoes.
Relieves sore and tired feet if rubbed on
the soles.
Provides comfort if applied to the face after
shaving.
An excellent powder base if rubbed in until
dry.
All chemists and leading stores, or will be
sent post paid upon receipt of postal notes
or stamps by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price, 2/6 per bottle.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
KV
TO “THE BULLETIN.”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post ray copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so drat 1 do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), theVregular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
,e.e» .-••-•••
.O
V
**
,p
.0
&
AO* <&• -
9 0 W' V*
6' .•* ..• ..*• .
*>
*
»
>i
»
•V
>'
■s°
\o
A\
f*
e>V
A' 6
*0
£
C,C
V
V°
,v.o w
o*'
A 1 *
■V 6
0


T-
y.
\
/
f
GENTLEMEN SINCE
THE DAY OUR OLD FRIEND
FROM OVERSEAS WAS
INTRODUCED TO YOU
His ever-increasing popularity has been insured by
that old spirit of Scottish hospitality inseparable
from the name of “BELL’S”—the whisky that is
delightfully different.
Although his circle of Australian friends is already
legion he is anxious to number you all amongst
them.
At the golf club after the strenuous round—at home
over the friendly game —on every convivial occasion
“BELL’S” will infuse the right spirit of.goodfellow-
ship and good cheer everywhere.
“BELL’S,” the whisky that is known throughout the
world for its smooth, full flavour, its pleasing
bouquet, its unvarying quality.
So “Afore Ye Go” meet him to-day—we are sure it
will be the beginning of a firm and lasting friendship.
1
BEL
fecial Reserve
SCOTIAN!)
r
cj<f
Sole Agents:
GIBBS BRIGHT & CO.,
Sydney & Melbourne.
D
D
mm
c
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
