

THE C/h\
>S?Kt\
/V/
/jf??/ —.«««• V*gf
i C
kvil
vsti
A
s%L
ATLANTIC
ETHYL
nun GASOLINE
CORPORATION
*
Jm
m
j
A
: :;S¥SS5Sg¥
i
! .
5
.<**
msi
■imm ;
f
■
■ Vi
No saving in fuel . • . no economy whatever . , .
come from driving a modern high compression car
on old fashioned fuels. 1934, 1935, 1936 cars and
all earlier models with high compression motors
absolutely demand the full anti-knock properties
of Atlantic Ethyl* to give FULL “KNOCKLESS’’
POWER! That’s straight talking, but it’s fact. We
know it—we want you to know it—so test Atlantic
Ethyl yourself—THEN DECIDE!
* Atlantic Petrol is the correct fuel to use in cars built before 1934
(other than those with high compression motors) in which com-
pression is comparatively low and knock is not prevalent. ..It
guarantees full mileage!
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., —A.ES-36.
The Bulletin
Now Hitler Has Struck (Page 8)
Vol. 57.—N0. 2927.
Wednesday, March 18, 1936.
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Story Wn mu,
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address >
S.B, 186 *
ë
ē
ĕ
The Red Page
DAVID
SCOTT
MITCHELL
In Australia
now each year
brings its new cen-
tenary, and from
this clear and
convenient emi-
nence we can
e
could retire up there and keep compan
with the blacks —it was too far away anc
not worth bothering about.
This was one of the grandest mistake
ever a set of creditors made for th
country. Mitchell did not get lost
the bush. Within 10 years he was pres
dent of the medical board and appointe
to the Legislative Council, and six year
later was welcoming his wife’s cousin
Sir John Young, as Governor of New
South Wales.
Meanwhile young David was growin
up. The family lived in Cumberlanc
street, on the Rocks, then a fashionabl
quarter of Sydney, in a house built i
1823 by the merchant Robert Campbel
And from the Rocks at 16 he matricu
lated and entered as one of the firs
24 students at Sydney University. A
22 he was called to the Bar, but neve
practised.
Whether he was overwhelmed by th
dominant energy of his father, whethe
he was spoilt as an only son (he hac
two sisters), whether his father’s wealth
made it unnecessary for him to exer
himself, will never be known. But i
is a fact that he retired into the she:
of the two houses in which he livec
during his lifetime, in Cumberland-stree
and Darlinghurst-road, and collectec
books. His excursions from thes
houses were taken in a hansom-cab
the bookshops and back again. Afte
the death of his father in 1869, he sen
fenced himself to solitude. His only
acquaintances—none of them was clos
enough to call him friend —were thos
who could talk books or had rare books
or the makings of books, to sell.
George Robertson, Fred Wymark
Jack Le Gay Brereton, Arthur Jose
Bertram Stevens, A. H. Spencer anc
Bladen and Anderson, principal librar
ians—-these were the only men who were
permitted to remain long in his com
pany, and even they were allowed to
remain only while they talked of books
or read them. Strange that the man who
was so keen to acquire every item of in-
formation in manuscript, printed page
map or painting relating to the his-
tory of his country could be so reticent
concerning his own. The private affairs
of men of account are always objects
of curiosity, and three stories are told
to account for Mitchell’s seclusion
from the world.
The first is of his younger sister, whose
marriage was a disappointment to her
family; the second is that he fell in love
with and was engaged to marry Emily
Manning, the daughter of the Judge,
who married someone else and lived un-
happily ever after; the third is that a
German confidence man took advantage
of his father in his declining years to
the tune of £20,000 or thereabouts, and
even produced a will which he had pre-
vailed on the old man to sign within a
fortnight of his death. (A jury tore it
up in 10 minutes after a 10-day hearing
in the courts.)
But these things happen, in greater or
lesser degree, to all of us at some time
or other in our lives, and few of us are
driven into retirement over them.
His father had been an original
member of the Australian Subscription
Library, the forerunner of the Public
Library, in 1826, and had been 15 years
president when he died in 1869. Mit-
chell therefore inherited his tastes. He
was born a collector. To acquire the
greatest collection of Australiana in the
world 'became the passion of his life. He
had the scholarship and the means to
realise his ambition; it was the work he
loved ; it required study of the intensest
kind, undistracted by extraneous affairs
that were foreign to his purpose ; and
with a determined single-mindedness that
entitles him to the nation’s gratitude he
stuck to his unselfish and patriotic task
to the end of his days.
On October 17, 1898, he verbally in-
formed the trustees of the Public Lib-
rary that he was prepared to donate
his great library to the State. He said
to H. C. L. Anderson: “The collection
has been the main object of my life, to
enable future historians to write the
history of Australia, and I wish the
whole collection to be kept together in
Sydney, the city of my birth, and be
known as the Mitchell Library, provided
the Government will provide suitable
accommodation for it, and make it
accessible to students.”
The Government a fortnight later noti-
fied Mitchell that his offer was accepted,
“with high appreciation of his patriotic
spirit,” and for seven years did nothing.
It made the Library Trust a cor-
porate body, so that it could receive
the gift—Mitchell would not trust the
politicians—but it was not until Mitchell
was a dying man that Carruthers brushed
aside the doubts that were cast on the
value of the collection and the disputes
that arose over the site of the building,
and, on the 70th birthday of the
benefactor, laid the foundation-stone of
the Mitchell Library.
From the windows of his bedroom in
Darlinghurst-road Mitchell could see the
cranes lifting stone upon stone to build
his monument, and, contented that his
life’s work was ended, died.
He takes rank with Alfred Felton
(Melbourne), John Henry Challis and Sir
Samuel McCaughey (Sydney) as the
principal benefactors to the nation.
Now, the trustees of the Public Lib-
rary of N.S.W. are celebrating the cen-
tenary of his birth by an exhibition of
the treasures of the Mitchell Library, to
be officially opened in March 19.
T. D. Mutch.
This
Decadence
“Think over
these facts impar-
tia 11 y,” Says
“Toowong” (R.P,
4/3/’36), “and
then ask yourself
again whether the age of miracles would
not yet be over if modern writers, faced
with all the obvious and overwhelming
• disadvantages of the organisation of
modern life, were to rival the greatest
authors of the past.” I do not know, but
I have a feeling that it would be a greater
miracle if a great writer’s greatness were
recognised by his contemporaries.
“Toowong” justifies his pessimism on
three main counts. Modern writers can’t
write as good books as their illustrious
predecessors because books are now
written, not for the cultured few, but for
the educated many. Writers can’t write
good books because it is so easy to make
money by writing bad ones. Writers
can’t write distinguished literature be-
cause there is such a lot of machinery on
the planet. I submit that all these ex-
planations, excuses or alibis apply no
more to the present age than to any
other.. Even the caveman balladist no
doubt got more meat than his fellow-
tribesmen on account of his ballads ; and
he would feel tempted to sing down to
his audience if his audience got shirty.
Socrates did not talk to the slaves on
whose labor the culture of Athens was
founded, but all he got from the cultured
few was a dose of hemlock. It was the
cultured few and not the uneducated
many, who had never heard of him, who
wanted to burn Rabelais. It was the cul-
tured few of Germany who persecuted
Heine so that he had to take refuge in
Paris, where another cultured few
allowed him to die in almost complete
obscurity. If could not be said that
è
CAUBOY.
Paintbox
Pageantry
D. L. Murray’s
T rump eter,
Sound! which
won a fanfare of
critical applause
a year or two ago,
comes back to mind as a highly-colored
light historical romance, peopled with
Dickensian London civilian and theatri-
cal life and as dashing a lot of soldiers as
a drab-dressed world ever clapped eyes
on.
An impression remains that it was
pretty well written, with some parts—
notably a Crimean War patch—uncom-
monly good in the picturesque manner
o Continued on page 4 .1


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"— Always.
The Senior Store
While
I Live I’
ll Grow
Anthony Horderns 1
Although the price of Wool is still
advancing, Anthony Horderns’ offer
Men’s “Jumbuk” Underwear at last
year’s prices. Undoubtedly NOW is
the time to buy Winter Woollens.
When present stocks are sold prices
are bound to advance.
It
5
FOR MEM
AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
2
Regd. Trade Mark.
“JUMBUK” (Regd. Trade Name)
Quality Underwear Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’
“Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of
winter. Its natural warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected
long staple Pure Woollen Yarn—the soft, down-like surface of the fabric is
flawless, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its
winter warmth the stored-up virtues of our Country’s Glorious Sunshine.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is guaranteed unshrinkable, and the wide range of sizes
stocked enables every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
The IDEAL WINTER WEAR for MEN!
No. 660—“Jumbuk” de Luxe, Natural All Wool. Medium winter weight, superior soft finish.
“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets, in Cream All Wool, Sleeveless style; self-bound neck and arm-
holes. Sizes, 34- to 44-inch chest. Price, each ®/9
Men’s “Jumbuk” Combinations, Natural All Wool. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Short Sleeves, Trunk Leg 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 27/-
Short Sleeves, Long Leg 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/6 28/-
Long Sleeves, Long Leg 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/- 27/6 29/-
0 Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all Railway Stations
in N.S.W. and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
BUY FLEECY “JUMBUK” UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS!
No. 220— “Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half Sleeves,
Light weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 4/6 4/9 5/* 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/-
No.
330— “Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Underwear. Winter
weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves 5/3 5/6 5/9, 6/3 7/- 8/- 8/11
Trunk Drawers 5/6 5/9 6/3 7/- 8/- 8/11
Combinations, \ Sleeves . . 7/6 7/9 8/6 9/3 9/11 10/6
Long Sleeves —8- 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/6 11/-
No. 15—“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Light weight 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6
No. 25X—“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets.
weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28
Shirts, Short Sleeves 3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9
Combinations 6/3 6/9 7/3
Winter
30 32
5/6 6/3
8/- 8/9
O Boys’ Mercery—First Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all Seapoits
in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
George Robot back again for Show Week
When visiting Sydney for the Easter season, do not fail to see George Robot! He is the
marvellous electro-mechanical man who answers questions, obeys commands, gnashes his teeth
and moves his limbs. He also speaks twelve languages. George will be in our Country Club,
Second Floor, from MARCH 30 to APRIL 16. There is no charge to see him.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
during the Easter Show should make a point of
inspecting Anthony Horderns* Pavilion at the
Showground. Also visit the remodelled Anthony
Horderns’ store and wander through the beautiful
spacious departments.


BUSH BALLADRY
COMPETITION.
Prizes totalling £25 £15, first;
£7, second; £3, third are offered
for the best ringing bush, ballads to
reach “The Bulletin” by April 30.
Entries should be marked “Bush
Balladry Competition.” The word
“ballad” is not used in any narrow
or technical sense; the verse may
be in whatever form and metre the
competitor prefers. Each entry
should be of less than 80 lines,
though longer entries would not be
disqualified. In addition to the
prize-money, space rates will be
paid for every entry published.
EVEN IF YOU ARE DEAF—YOU CAM HEAR THE TALKIES—
YOU CAN HEAR YOUR FRIENDS SPEAKING
SOFTLY—IF YOU USE THE “SONOTONE.”
The “Sonotone” was brought to Australia by
Angus and Coote, little more than two years ago.
Already it has revolutionised hearing-aid service.
Before 1932 there was no “Sonotone.” That
accounted for the lack of enthusiasm in the marketing
of hearing aids. But now Angus and Coote have
something so amazingly successful to offer the deaf
—it’s a joy to proclaim the good news.
The “Sonotone" conveys sound by a method different
from any other hearing aid. It conveys the same
sound—in the same volume—and as naturally, as
people blessed with normal hearing receive it. The
sound comes purely, clearly and free from static.
The Worlds Greatest
Hearing Aid
MODEL
34.0
SONOTONE
NOW
121
YOU CAN HEAR ALL THAT ANYONE ELSE
HEARS—IF YOU USE THE “SONOTONE.”
The “Sonotone” has supplied one of humanity’s
greatest needs. It is worn by some very famous
people, whose names you know well in public life
here. You never notice the instrument-— it’s so
inconspicuous.
If you are deaf —see what the “Sonotone” can do
for you. A free trial awaits you. Bring friends.
Hear them speak softly to you. If your home is in
the country, get your Doctor to write for a “Sono-
tone” on approval so that you may have a trial.
For the convenience of people in other States,
Angus and Coote have appointed Interstate
distributors in every capital city.
Queensland: Chas. Sankey Fraser,
216 Queen Street, Brisbane,, and
Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria and Tasmania: B. Nathan, South Australia: Laubnian and Panic,
115 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Newcastle District: Gibb and Beeman, 74 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Australia: Laubman and Pank
64 Barrack Street, Perth,
W. Australia.
ė
of presenting history in fictional fancy
dress. It is remembered also as having
been somewhat awkwardly constructed:
the recollection is of a vast assortment
of incidents and people jumbled into a
space that couldn’t comfortably hold
them. One other remaining impression
is that in that novel Mr. Murray, with
the ability to construct characters in the
Dickens mould and a facility for reach-
ing them down ready-made to the pat-
tern of Mr. Farnol, was undecided in his
preference and peopled the novel liber-
ally with both kinds.
It is a more mature and decided Mr.
Murray who has now written an equally
liberally expansive highly-colored light
historical pageantry of romance called
Regency (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s; Bs. 6d.), set chiefly in
Brighton (Eng.) and sweeping over a
period from just before the Regent
began to make that seaside place really
gay, on through several generations to
the present time. If memory is sound
concerning the good writing of the earlier
novel, this is one respect in which Mr.
Murray has not improved. Taken alto-
gether, the writing is not at all bad, but
there are patches so flamboyantly over-
written as to suggest that Mr. Murray
will probably be wading chin-deep in
syrup in his next novel, or the one after.
There’s a job for an astronomical
mathematician counting up the adjec-
tives in these 655 large pages: the book’s
first paragraph would serve Mr. Fowler
as a nasty example. And that is not the
worst aspect of an abandoned style. Mr.
Murray is already far enough down the
treacle track to be capable of this sort
of thing;
Faint as the twittering of troubled
chickens if heard from the upper ether,
the clamor of the great crowd gathered
on White Hawk Down swelled almost to
deafening just above the racecourse.
It is the barest justice to the writer to
say that there is nothing else in the novel
as dreadful as that. There is a general
tendency towards gush that is a pity in
so good a writer, but as yet it is a ten-
dency only. In other respects Mr.
Murray has clearly improved. There
may be this exception: he has aban-
doned the Dickens lead and uniformly
uses pictures for characters —very pretty
pictures, of course. Apart from such
things as these, the novel is better
work than the earlier book. It is com-
paratively excellently constructed. In-
stead of jumping uncertainly about, the
narrative is vigorously straight-flowing
and sure. That variety of scene which
Mr. Murray loves —this passion of his
accounts for the geographical acrobatics
of the first novel —is here very well sup-
plied by the great changes in fashion, be-
havior and the like visited upon
Brighton by the ordinary course of events
over the past 150 years.
The first of the novel’s four parts is
naturally the brightest: it covers the
time when Brighton was at its gayest,
when the Regent was building the
Pavilion and entertaining there. In these
authentic highly-colored surroundings
Mr. Murray is luxuriously at home. With
all the gay colors of the paintbox he
touches it into pretty-picture life again—
a gorgeous scene of gaiety and light liv-
ing, with the Regent, Beau Brummel
and other gallants on show, and, as a
temporary star in their midst, the roguish-
type heroine Regency, who reigns a
while as mistress to the Prince, later
becomes lady to the Prince’s aged
financer, and, through an adulterous
liaison, hands on that flame of her spirit
which, given mainly into succeeding femi-
nine hands, is the rather aerial means of
carrying on the narrative with con-
tinuity over its four or five generations.
With so thin a narrative thread the
book is not so much a novel as a
pageantry of periods, with that first one
excellent, the second—eked out with
some tiresome theology—rather dull, the
third uncommonly good again, and the
final fourth probably the most astonish-
ing romanticisation of these present
nineteen-thirties so far written. The
scene in this last part is in the talkies’
sphere, which is doubtless naturally arti-
ficial enough, but Mr. Murray adds for
good measure a picturesque tale of drug-
taking and its detection so fantastic and
enacted by such a shadowy lot of bright
young things that the narrative seems to
have run full circle and got back again
to the Regency, in remoteness from actu-
ality, at least. Still, even here there are
brightness and inventiveness, lively
action, hosts of lightly-drawn characters
and other romance ingredients that
belong no less to the work as a whole,
and go to make it an excellent thing
regarded as light entertainment and a
novel of some quality as well.
R.P.
A Publisher
Explains
From Thomas
C. Lothian, direc-
tor of Lothian’s,
Melbourne, con-
cerning an article
(R.P. 26/2/’36)
in which Gerald Byrne explained a
strange stanza in the late Frank William-
son’s Purple and Gold: briefly, Mr,
Byrne’s version was that a number of
proposed variations to a line had been
included in the book as a stanza because
Williamson had had no opportunity to
correct the proofs:
We are sorry to spoil a good story,
but Frank Williamson had galley proofs
first of all and afterwards page proofs.
Not only did he have full opportunity for
correcting proofs, but we also had them
read and corrected as well. Unfortunately,
he was trusted with the open envelope
containing the final page proofs, as he
wished to look over them once again. It
was then, after the proofs had left our
hands, that he wrote in the half a dozen
variations of one of his lines.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Regency D. L. Murray
Cr ,_ d TT xt v i n
EE ow They Run Jerratd Tickell
Magna Britannia /. Coalman
P IRST of the three books selected from
•* this week’s satchel — Regency : D. L.
Murray—is reviewed under the heading
“Paintbox Pageantry.”
Jerrard Tickell’s See How They Run
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.) is a light novel on
a less ambitious scale, though perhaps a
scale as yet too ambitious for the author’s
craftsmanship. It may not be either a
first or an autobiographical novel, but
it gives an impression of being both,
especially throughout the first half, in
which the author, after having con-
structed his ideal of a young man —not
a bad ideal, either, and certainly a
natural creation —has no sure plan as to
what he should do with him. Mr.
Tickell seems to prove himself new to
the novel-craft by making his own job as
difficult as possible. He has brought
over from Austria, among a trainload
of famine children seeking refuge in
England, a child of about 12 whom he
means to use for his heroine. His Irish
hpro is already 19, and, since the girl
has to grow up, something has to be
done about the hero. Only a beginner
would handicap himself with that sort
of difficulty. Mr. Tickell gets through
it by taking his hero vagabonding about
the world, chiefly in America, with a
scarcely convincing few months of Aus-
tralia. After that, the girl now having
grown up, the way is comparatively easy,
with suspense conveniently introduced
by the girl’s having to return to her con-
sumptive father’s side in Vienna, where
a rich young swell is at hand to get her
into his net, what time the hero in Eng-
land, aided by a generous and downright
aunt —a character who most presages
excellent things to come from Mr.
Tickell—fights a by-election and loses if,
but eventually achieves his ambition, and
not only in this respect, or in England,
either. Nobody will swallow Mr.
Tickell’s Cockney who, after a good hard-
drinking life, not interrupted by serving
as a captain in France, becomes also an
M.P., and still speaks of Madeira as “a
glass of funny red stuff called Materia or
something.” An incredible person alto-
gether, the Captain. But the other
people are good, the writing is full of
life, with an unflagging flow of humor,
and the English and closing Tyrolese
scenes and happenings make fresh and
pleasant reading.
Though in parts tortuous and heavy
with economics jargon, Magna Britannia :
J. Coatman (Cape ; Angus and Robert-
son; 165.), is a notable guide to an
understanding of the British Empire and
the British Commonwealth of Nations,
their meaning, their parts, their internal
relationships, their greatness among in-
stitutions of civilisation of all times, and
their present and possible future position
and value in the world. Briefly, Mr.
Coalman’s thesis is that the British Com-
monwealth, now developed into a politi-
cal system resting upon nothing but a
free willingness to associate—“literally
unique, and there has never been any-
thing like it in the past”—represents
exactly the spirit which must inform the
dealings of foreign nations with one an-
other if a secure and stable organisation
of world society is ever to come into
being. “Whatever progress may be made
in the future by the nations of the world
in the peaceful ordering of their rela-
tions with each other will bp made along
the lines already marked out* by the
British Commonwealth of Nations.” Sup-
porting that idea, he makes a brilliant,
penetrating analysis of both the material
and the philosophical elements of that
authentic League of Nations. It’ is a
solid work —in its solidity alone of sin-
gular integrity in times of frothy think-
ing and political nostrums —a courageous
study of a large and anything but an easy
subject that could not be read without
profit by political students, or anybody
else.
*
Fools Like Me: Paul Marche (Hough-
ton and Scott-Snell; 7s. 6d.). “A con-
temporary satire,” the first 60 pages a
tirade against war. Afterwards it de-
velops into a novel, but the denunciation
i£ still as important and just as fierce.
For good measure there’s condemnation
of the public-school system. It’s the kind
of writing that requires plenty of capitals
and red ink:
O mother, wife, sweetheart, in the
name of Mary the mother of Christ-
awake! Act! Do something worthy of
your womanhood! Love your men! Pre-
serve them !V Let them live a whole life
with whole bodies, with legs to walk, eyes
to see and minds untouched, that they
may enjoy the glory of living! Love them,
and so make war impossible.
Some wicked readers are sure to laugh
in the wrong places.
The Perfect Witch : Lance Sieveking
(Cassell; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). Concern-
ing a rather foolish young man who can’t
decide between a nice, quiet, ordinary
girl and a beautiful and quite remark-
able actress. It ends well, of course,
but the ending is a long time coming,
and before it does the young man has
been engaged to yet another woman, very
dull and undistinguished. Part of the
time the hero is a 8.8. C. announcer, and
a great deal of the story has it's setting
within the hallowed walls of Broadcast-
ing House.
Plato’s Symposium or The Drinking
Party: translation by Michael Joyce
(Dent; 6s. net). Excellent; it might well
become not only the standard trans-
lation of that bright gathering, but
the standard example of what a transla-
tion ought to be. A translation ought
not to be academically wooden, which is a
just criticism of most; neither should it
be that vulgarisation of the original with
which sundry translators have in recent
years astonished the world. Mr. Joyce
strikes an admirable balance between
those extremes; or rather he puts
translating back on its right and proper
plane, with a fresh and sparkling render-
ing which leaves the impression almost
that his is the original. The publishers
pay him the deserved compliment of
matching his work with a lovely little pro-
duction.
The History of All Saints’ College,
Bathurst, 1873-1934: Watson A. Steel
and C. W. Sloman (Angus and Robert-
son). Tells with a wealth of accurate
detail the story of a fine old Anglican
school. C, G. Wade was a pupil of this
school; and among distinguished old boys
are Dr. C. E. W. Bean, the war historian,
whose father was the second headmaster,
Norman Kater, William Dixson, Colin
Campbell Stephen and H. J. Deane (one
of London’s leading civil engineers). The
progress of the school —it has grown
vastly in buildings and membership—is
here faithfully recorded.


S&iV-
GIANT
BALLOON
conquib§2^==B
u
m*
m
i
B
B
El
B
L
m
vi
MS'*
G‘ A
1
G
*ai.u>o«
WITH
■auvi^
«2
«
o
o
G
m
A
▲
K
r^v
10-Cl2-’36
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Truck and Bus Operators
all over the Common-
wealth are turning to the
New G-3 Giant Balloon.
For in this new tyre they
realise that the first
worth-while victory has
been gained over HEAT,
the great tyre enemy.
This achievement is due
to its being built on an
entirely new design, the
“High Profile,” which
gives the G-3 Giant Bal-
loon more height, more
sidewall area, a greater
flexing zone and larger
air volume-and defeats
“ROAD FEVER”-that
destructive flexing heat
which is created inside
tyres at work under load.
In short, the New G-3
Giant Balloon means:-
1. Substantial savings in opera-
ting costs.
2. Elimination of premature
tyre failures.
3. Up to 25% 50% 100%
longer tyre life, according to the
type of service. The tougher the
job, the greater the percentage of
increased mileage.
4. Increased safety reduced
depreciation for loads and
vehicles - much more comfort
for drivers and passengers.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
I
ra
M9H
i ■
m
ijj 5
■
f..
; I i
:
IP
; '
98
*8
IS
E
fSi
m
H
T l^
Si
Hi
i
Hi
his
ai
■
-v
ss
\ '■***.'
MB
<m£s
■
1
X
mm
m -
mm
m
sJ
8
■
Wine-filled Casks awaiting Storage in one of the Vast Cellars Available .
jtfffhtt c Mrie jnellcwmMmid


The Bulletin
Vol, 57. —No, 2927.
March 18, 1936.
NO MISUNDERSTANDINGS, PLEASE'!
“It would be wrong to assume that our striving for peace is a sign of weakness. "— Mr. Baldwin on Britain’s new defence proposals.
“I’m a man of peace, but there’s no harm in rolling my sleeves up.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
NOW HITLER HAS STRUCK.
Echoes of 1914 have rung out with the trooping into
the Rhineland. Reverberating in a world jumpy with
war psychosis, they are easily mistaken for the original
1914 Voice itself. Hence, last week —shrill beside
Mr. Baldwin’s dignified utterance —Mr, Anthony
Eden’s ghastly faux pas : “If there should take place
any actual attack on France or Belgium, his Majesty’s
Government will regard itself in honor bound to come
to the assistance of the country attacked.”
Aggressive hysteria in every word of it. There
had been no mention, no suggestion of attack upon
anybody. Germany, as a gesture of determined
nationalism, entered into possession—of Germany.
That involved a loud ripping of treaties; ugly
sounds. Troops marched into territory barred to
military occupation by international law. Cheers and
flowers expressed the local approval. Military ’planes
flew about. Herr Hitler addressed a cheering Reich-
stag. The Commons cheered Mr. Eden. France
shrieked for “sanctions.” The Bear snarled (or snig-
gered) in his beard.
In these things it does seem like old times
returned. Once more, as in 1914, the German mili-
tary machine has moved. “Well,” M, Briand said
to Herr Stresemann, long afterwards, “I don’t, of
course, know what history will say, but I am afraid
you will have to agree that in 1914 Belgium did not
invade Germany.” Even history will have to agree
that in 1936 the Rhineland did not get up at night
and invade the invaders.
This action, like that of 1914, is clearly immoral;
and it is no defence that in the German view both
the broken treaties were bad law, sufferable while
Germany was a beaten and debased country, but
intolerable to the virile spirit which informs the revived
nation. To accept that would be to subscribe to a
vicious principle negative of all law. But Germany
is not relying only on the dictum that bad laws are
niade to be broken. Instead —once more, as in 1914,
and probably with more justification—Germany makes
the charge of intended action against her own peace
and existence.
The first paragraph of the August 2, 1914, note
to Belgium specifically charged France, on “reliable
information,” with the intention “to march through
Belgian territory against Germany.” History inclines
to exonerate France of any such intention ; but it is
not established whether that was mere chauvinism
or genuine German belief. There is to be no such
doubt about the similar aspect—the really vital
element —in this present situation. This time Germany
has been very clear.
The charge is not merely that France, in approv-
ing the Franco-Soviet pact, had already flouted the
Locarno Treaty. That would amount only to an
adventure in the double immorality of having two
wrongs make a right. The charge is that the pact
was entered into in a spirit of mutual ill-will towards
Germany, and, established, would be a positive menace
to German welfare.
That has been the burden of German complaint
ever since the pact was mooted. All along official
German comment has been emphatic that its rati-
fication would be “a decisive turning-point in the
history of Europe” ; it was “nothing less than a mili-
tary agreement, directed in the first place against
Germany” ; it would “increase tremendously the diffi-
culties of uniting Europe” ; Germany could regard it
only as “an alliance against her,” “an attempt to
encircle her.”
That has been called illusory. But the Soviet
embraces the pact as a defensive measure against the
supposed German menace. When the pact con-
troversy was at its most bitter stage, early in February,
a Soviet spokesman “warned all those craving for
Soviet blood,” and named the German people as
“representatives of mediaeval barbarism” ; since then
the pact has had the highest official Soviet blessing
as a defensive measure against Germany. Thus the
German view has the singular support of agreeing
exactly with that of one of the two signatories.
In France the German fears were refuted, the
charges denied: the pact was not in any sense mili-
tary ; it was a purely political agreement. Before
February was out, however, M. Herriot, speaking to
the pact, stated as an argument in favor of ratification
that the Red Army was now among the most power-
ful in the world. Germany, at least, declines to believe
otherwise than that that supposedly powerful fighting
force clinched the ratification.
To share that belief would not be to condemn
France. Germany, according to Mr. Winston
Churchill, spent £800,000,000 on armaments in 1935 ;
the staggering sum of £1,500,000,000 in the three years
that Herr Hitler has been in power. In the shadow
of that the French, invaded three times in
the last century, naturally fear repetition; and
it is hardly to their discredit that they are not
childish enough to trust the League of Nations to
protect them. Even such an unreliable reed as the
Soviet might be preferable. On this ground, at least,
their alliance is justified. But in the German view
that does not alter the kind of alliance it is.
Poland as fiercely opposed the pact; others—not
such interested parties—cynically describe it as a
private arrangement outside the League of Nations
in spirit as well as in fact. But it really matters little
whether Germany’s march on the Rhine be condemned
as unspeakably illegal, condoned as conditionally
illegal, or even swallowed whole as a perfect example
of precise legality. Now that Hitler has struck, the
matter has been brought down from these abstract
heights to the level of concrete reality. Viewed with
realism, it is impossible to escape the conviction that
the action was psychologically natural and inevitable.
It is as a human and not as a dry, legal
problem that it has now to be considered, if the war
psychosis will allow. Considered thus, as a challenge,
not to war, but to sympathetic consideration of Ger-
many’s case, it might well lead to a wiser determina-
tion on international injustices, and thence to a solution
of the fears, hysteria and the like which trouble not
only Germany, but mankind at large. The way to
that heaven will not be paved \yith truculent threats.
They can only lead us into trenches fouler than the
last, and even more futile.
CONTRACEPTIVE POLITICS.
Mr. W. M. Hughes is certainly a nuisance in Aus-
tralian politics. Instead of emitting occasional strings
of platitudes, whilst wangling a free jaunt abroad, the
man goes about making unnecessary trouble for Com-
monwealth and States alike. His latest audacity is
the embarrassing proposal that Governments should
recognise family-rearing as a social and patriotic
service by giving up substantial sources of revenue.
This, though not one of the new Australians so
acquired is ever likely to vote for Mr. Hughes.
Everybody knows by now that the Australian
birth-rate has fallen 20 p.c. in the last 12 years, and
that it is still falling rapidly, although the marriage-
rate is rising fast. The birth-rate for 1934—the most
recent figures available—was 16.39 per 1000 of popu-
lation, the lowest ever recorded.
Everybody knows, too, that this is so because
people cannot stand the expense of rearing families,
in spite of the £4 maternity bonus and sundry
grudging income-tax deductions for the small
proportion of the population which has an income up
to the requisite figure for taxing.
The Australian population, with its unusually
large proportion of both sexes in the thirties, should
show an exceptionally high birth-rate. These people
are the outcome of the high rates in the late ’nineties
and early 1900’s, when taxation had not got beyond
the kindergarten stage. They think ahead much more
than did their parents. Many an ambitious citizen
among them has learned the lesson that too much
energy in business development will bring him an
income-tax assessment that will need several years to
get over. He sits back and keeps his energies within
the limits which pay him best. Potential revenues and
national advantages are lost, but he cannot be expected
to work only for the taxgatherer.
Also, modern married folk, regarding the future
in its financial aspects, realise such practical details
as that duties on imported prams run from 15 p.c.
to 42i p.c., with primage and sales tax on top of that.
Local prams are naturally kept round about the same
figure, and they also attract sales tax. The cost of
every item needed for clothing, feeding, housing and
schooling a young family is swelled by State or
Federal charges, particularly among town-dwellers.
The country family man is hit up for excessive
freights, postage and carriage on articles not locally
produced.
The natural urge to parenthood among most
married couples to-day is far less potent than the
equally natural urge to keep on living in reasonable
comfort, bringing up one or two children as they
consider their children should be brought up —or
avoiding the child-burden altogether. Especially are
these conclusions true of the thrifty, thinking, indus-
trious groups who are our best citizens. They realise
th >t the grasping hand of the taxgatherer is laid at
birth on every Australian baby, and that it never
relaxes. The baby cannot pay his own taxes, so he
does not get born until his parents consider that they
can afford to have him, and to do him properly when
they have got him. The reason they cannot afford
him lies in the perpetually increasing amounts collected
by our seven Governments from a stagnant handful
of population, becoming more stagnant with every
year.
Mr. Hughes suggests that contraceptive literature
is largely responsible for this state of affairs. If every
line ever written on contraception were abolished
from Australia it would not make a tittle of differ-
ence in the practical outcome. Effective contraception
and birth control were practised in Australia centuries
before Cook first sighted our shores. But if Mr.
Hughes can complete his admirable political indis-
cretion by breaking the tax-bandit grip which every
year holds back tens of thousands of Australian
babies from ever coming into being, he will do a
service to the country which will far transcend all
that has gone before in his useful and active career
as an Australian statesman.
TIME, GENTLEMEN, PLEASE!
Considerable sums of money are spent spreading the
idea that these parts of the world are worth tourists
visiting. The Matson shipping people used £50,000
last year cultivating this belief in the United States,
and are spending another large sum this year. The
local National Travel Association has had close on
£30,000 subscribed for the same laudable purpose,
and spent more than half that amount last year.
Asa result of such efforts increasing numbers of
tourists are making the Pacific cruise. We are not
yet in the magnet class of Soviet Russia, but we are
doing better than we would be if we merely sat dumb
or threw bottles at the pebple who try to advertise
us. So far, too, our visitors have refrained from
going home and damning us utterly—in public, at
least. Against that there is the comfortless thought
that one helping of us is enough for the hungriest of
them. They don’t come twice, nor even promise to
do so.
This is not inexplicable. True, we have innumer-
able unmatchable attractions. The harbor at Sydney
is breath-taking in its beauty, and the bridge is a
sight. The coastal scenery is magnificent, the Blue
Mountains are overpowering, the pastoral areas are
glorious, the koalas are quaint, the gum-trees unsur-
passable, and the people everywhere are decency,
politeness, courtesy personified. Victoria —the other
main State to the big trans-Pacific ships—offers every
bit as much as this, if not more.
Yet one look steadies tourists. Unwarned to use
cottonwool, their ears are irked by the inescapable
reiteration of the great national refrain, “Time, gentle-
men, please!” and their eyes are affronted by the
effects thereof. It is not an unmusical cry, but tourists
do not come here to study music. They come —as
tourists go anywhere—because of the eagerness for
life that is in them, plus the money in their pockets
for satisfying this ordinary natural hunger, “Time,
gentlemen, please!” nullifies whatever hope we might
have of contributing towards the satisfaction thus
quested.
At Sydney the result of too-sedulous adherence
to the spirit of that refrain is that if visitors do not
report Sydney to be the dullest, deadest, most ghoul-
ishly dreary after-dark city in the world it can be
only because they have also seen Melbourne. Sydney,
once darkness closes in upon it, shuts up and is dead;
and it is the same with Melbourne. Neither city has
any night life. Both go dead in the deadest manner
that it is possible to be dead.
To a tourist familiar with the night life of great
world cities, a tour of Sydney or Melbourne by night
must be an unforgettable experience. He will be lucky
if he can cheer himself up with a length of fried fish
or buy a banana or a pie at a street stall. If he has
a fancy for firing a cannon up George-street, Collins-
street or any other highway, he can indulge himself
with impunity. Even if he be as good a shot with
a cannon as the Negus himself —“he hit four bulls
before breakfast” —he would not be able to shoot any-
thing more lifelike than a silent cop.
The influence of this is deadly. It is not merely
that by its legalised reiteration if is impossible to
absorb a decent beverage after the legitimately obscene
hour of 6 p.m. Rather it is the effect upon the general
public consciousness of this arrogant restriction of
liberty. That is the dampener —a war-time measure
in the first place, prolonged by an unfortunate succes-
sion of timeserving politicians. The most insuper-
able obstacle to reasonable civilised freedom of
behavior of any of the war legacies, it is a signal
example of the folly it is for a people to return to
Authority any fraction of secured liberty.
The result of that having been done in this
instance is that the two biggest cities in the land repre-
sent by night a wowser’s dream of Paradise and a
decent man’s vision of Purgatory. That is bad enough
for decent men to live in ; to imagine that it can
possibly be attractive to visitors is to insult their cora-
monsense or be victim to an egregious optimism.
It is not a matter of the temporary visitor want-
ing a drink after sunset. What he will and does want
is a sight of some brightness and gaiety of life —terrible
words to the wowser. Instead he finds our biggest cities
attuned to “Time, gentlemen, please!” He looks
aghast at the results of this dismal dirge. He looks
at cities which become corpses for not less than half
of the 24 hours. He shudders, he flees, and he returns
e
M.C.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Imports and Shilly-shally.
This week Canberra is to discuss recent reductions
in the tariff schedule. Since the Ottawa Agreement
of 1932, the trend has been all for reductions —the
scale on over 1000 items was pared down during 1935.
The year 1931-32 showed a favorable trade
balance of 40.6 millions sterling. In the next two
years the balances were 38.6 and 37.8 millions ster-
ling respectively. Those were the last occasions on
which our external debt charges were covered, and
they included the shipment of the finish of our gold
reserves, really an export of capital.
In 1934-35 the credit was down to 16.1 millions ;
invisible items, such as the repatriation of credits to
overseas head offices, had to come out of that. During
the seven months to January 31, there has been a
surplus of exports, including newly-won gold, of 10.6
millions. In January export values barely balanced
imports. Overseas interest at present calls for
21 millions sterling a year; the bill will definitely not
be covered by this year’s trading.
Banks are endeavoring to right the position by
frowning at orders for unessential overseas goods.
That clumsy expedient is doomed to failure. One
bank might easily lose business to another if it applied
pressure more zealously than its competitor. Plainly,
one authority must take charge of the position; and
the obvious remedy is through the tariff.
Some Australian industries are already being
squeezed from two sides. Excessive imports, besides
restricting manufacturers’ markets, have operated to
lift the cost of money. The preferential duty was cut
right out on Portland cement, for example (the case
is being reconsidered); the recent rise in interest rates
was followed by investors withdrawing support for
all enterprises concerned in construction trades, especi-
ally cement manufacturers.
W. A. Watt, speaking to the Industries Protection
League the other day, said:
It is surely preposterous to suggest that, because the
Prime Minister said in an election speech that the Gov-
ernment would not make alterations to the tariff
without reference to the board, the Government should
regard itself bound to accept the recommendations of
the board on every occasion.
Recommendations by the board may or may not
take into account questions of national welfare, such
as employment and credit conditions. But, Ottawa
Agreement or no, someone will eventually be called
to account if the serious drift, clearly indicated by
recent developments, is not arrested ; and no Govern-
ment will be permitted to shelter behind a board in
that event.
•
The Great Bedroom War.
Any prospective compiler of a history of effrontery
should not miss the Great Bedroom War which is
raging in Canberra.
In a town of 11,000 people, and designed “on
model lines,” there are only two spots where Ms.P.
may rest their weary heads. One is the Hotel Kurra-
jong, the other the Hotel Canberra—-that is, unless
members are so peculiar as to become permanent
residents.
The Canberra is nearer the House than the Kurra-
jong, and was popular with members because, while
the Government ran it as the leading tourist hotel
of the new Washington, they could inhabit it at a
special charge of 7s. for bed and breakfast. This
for the 47 days on which they sat last year —provided
they were in Canberra every sitting night, which a
lot of them were not —would have panned out at
£l6 9s. per head p.a., plus meals in the Parliamentary
refreshment-rooms, on which the country loses a con-
siderable sum so that they may feed cheaply.
Last session a lease of the Canberra was granted
to a private licensee, who has had the temerity to raise
his charges to 10s. 6d. per night.
Twenty-three members, of all parties, when they
heard of the increase, rushed to the Minister for
the Interior aqd demanded: “Where are we going to
sleep to-night?” Mr. Paterson advised them to pay
the extra rate at the Canberra. Nobody would have
any of it. They asked the Minister if he would pro-
vide transport if they went to Queanbeyan, and the
Minister offered them a bus. But they would have
no bus—“members leave the House at different times.”
Government motor-cars, with the public paying the
petrol bill, will convey the 10 rebels who did not
surrender. The Ms.P. will save 6d. per night, so no-
body can complain.
The taxpayers? Blow the taxpayers!
♦
Manchester Feels the Pinch.
Though names were not mentioned, the Manchester
Mission made it clear at Canberra that they fear Japan
will deprive Lancashire of its already small share in
the Australian market.
The figures are amazing. Taking cotton piece
goods and artificial silk together, Australia in 1932
imported from Britain 170,000,000 square yards, and
from Japan 44,000,000 square yards. In 1935 Aus-
traha imported 125,000,Qp0 square yards from Britain
and 135,000,000 square yards from Japan. In three
y-rsM s h imports of cotton piece goods and art.
silk have fallen away by 45,000,000 yards, while
oAninm! 11 P orts f rom Japan have increased by
90,000,000 yards.
Members of the mission said that unless cor-
rective action is taken Lancashire’s textile trade with
Australia must disappear, as it has from British
colonial and Dutch East Indies markets.
Git • a XP n ’ enter ed through the Customs as artificial
suk, is the menace to Manchester. This is now being
Si 1 mto Australia at prices which makp it a
ueaaiy competitor with British textiles. Sir Ernest
Thompson, leader of the delegation, told the Com-
monwealth Government that he has information of
enormous purchases of it which will further curtail
the ability of Australia’s best customer to buy Aus-
tralian goods. . .
Melbourne manufacturers have told the mission
that they are not happy at being forced to buy rayon
and other foreign textiles. They feel that they are
injuring Britain, and are being subjected to all kinds
of inconvenience and loss; but they have no alter-
native in a highly competitive business but to buy the
cheapest material, even if their customers receive
inferior value.
That is the real curse of low-grade, mass-produc-
tion output. A manufacturer who insisted on buying
British would be squeezed out. Manchester says the
Commonwealth Government should encourage public
spirit and reciprocal Empire sentiment in business.
♦
Beatty Passes.
The career of Earl Beatty shows how great a part
opportunity plays in the careers of fighting men.
Before the war he was little known, though no
naval man since Nelson had had quicker promotion.
The Sudan gave him his chance when he was 25
and his personality was one to please Kitchener.
When he succeeded the wounded commander of the
Nile gunboat flotilla at Hafir, he showed the first
example of the Beatty tactics, driving straight in front
of the enemy batteries. He came out with the D. 5.0.,
and the end of the campaign saw him the youngest
commander in the navy at 27. Two years later, at the
head of the Naval Brigade at the capture of Tientsin,
he became the youngest captain.
So he returned home in a glimmer of glory and
married one of the rich Marshall Fields, of Chicago,
and a grateful Admiralty, with a blind respect for
age, put him on half-pay and kept him there for
years. When the Dreadnought era arrived he could
no longer be ignored. At 39 he was a rear-admiral
—again the youngest in the service—but doing office
jobs till 1912, when he took over command of a
cruiser squadron.
Three weeks after August 4, 1914, he was a hero
to the public which had scarcely heard of him ; he
had dived into Heligoland Bight and sunk three
German cruisers without British loss. Four months
later he chased four German battle-cruisers and sank
the Bliicher.
At Jutland he had the hardest task in the battle.
His cruisers had the job of luring out Von Hipper;
there might have been no grand engagement at all
had it not been for Beatty’s dash and daring. The
fruits of the battle were evident throughout the war.
Only once in two and a half years did the German
High Seas Fleet venture out again, to turn when it
heard that the British Grand Fleet was advancing.
Then, in November, 1918, when Von Scheer ordered
the German Navy to “break the blockade,” the crews
mutinied. A few months later Beatty, who in
November, 1916, had become C.-in-C., received the
surrender of the German naval force.
Beatty became an earl, a viscount, a baron and
received a gift of £lOO,OOO from the nation. For
eight years he was First Sea Lord, and steered the
navy through the difficult period of the Washington
Conference and naval reduction. He retired, a worn-
out man, at 56.
At such a time as the present Britain can little
spare him.
♦
The London Credit Pool.
Replying to the censure motion moved by Opposi- *
tion-leader Curtin, Prime Minister Lyons stated:
A careful estimate of the prospective overseas
trade position on June 30 (the end of the fiscal year)
shows that our favorable balance will be sufficient to
cover our commitments on Government account.
This amounts to admitting that the London credit
pool will be further depleted (by at least £5,000,000)
as a result of the overseas transactions of Australia
for 1935-36. A favorable trade balance large enough
to meet Government interest payable overseas will
not nearly suffice to pay Australia’s way. Dividends
have to be transmitted to overseas holders of Aus-
tralian investment and mining stocks, exchange has
to be provided for all kinds of “invisible imports/’
such as tourist and business trips abroad.
Mr. Lyons’s statement amounts to this: The
London credit pool, which stood at £68,000,000 or
thereabouts in 1933-34 and is now down to about
£50,000,000, will have to be further depleted to strike
a balance for the 1935-36 transactions.
This cannot be contemplated with complacency.
It means that Australia, instead of making progress
towards economic recovery, has really fallen back
during the last two years. The overseas credit reserve
against drought or against another calamitous fall
in wholesale prices is to be drawn upon for political
purposes.
The Government is using the huge customs
receipts mainly for such purposes—to buy popu-
larity. If it checked imports it would check
funds needed for such largesse. Therefore the general
economic position of Australia must be sacrificed.
Mr. Lyons says the London position, “though
not as easy as we would like to see, is secure for the
time being.” The Commonwealth Bank, in its half-
yearly report, takes a more serious view of the
import boom.
♦
Merely Mary Ann.
She finds champions:
Vic. Premier Dunstan recently protested against the
treatment of domestics, and, incidentally, administered a
slap on the wrist to Mary Ann for not giving the household
more efficient service. He was right in both instances.
There is no logical reason why the domestic should not
be as cultured and as dignified as the hospital nurse, whom
Mr. Dunstan quoted as an instance of an occupation raised
in status. But my observations teach me that the average
mistress doesn’t want any alteration. The story of the
Toorak people who imported a butler and sacked him when
he refused to drop his aitches is no wild invention.
■ Housewives are chary about employing attractive girls,
for their husbands and sons notice the attractions. Add
refinement and education to physical allure and the problem
would be intensified. Turning Mary Ann into a fellow-
creature whose culture it was impossible to disguise or
belittle would mean not mere philandering but serious
business. Instead of seeking a bride from the daughters
of nice people, young Eric would announce his engagement
to Mary Ann, who would then be one of the nice people
herself. It was bad enough when Eric started picking a
wife from the hospital nurses and the typists, but the raising
of the status of Mary Ann would bring another battalion
of competitors. into the matrimonial field. For the house-
wife often has daughters to marry off as well as sons.
The supposed stigma imposed by calling a domestic
by her first name is not so serious as people think. There
are few offices in the U.S.A. where girls are not called by
their Christian names. In many concerns only the man who
pays the salaries ever knows a girl’s surname. And none
of the girls ever thinks of objecting.
*
The Stuff in the Cables.
From National Broadcast, 2FC, Sydney, last Friday,
by F. W. Doidge, the Australian and English jour-
nalist, now on a visit to Australia and Maoriland;
In yesterday’s cable news we were told that the
German public is being given only a one-sided view
of the British reactions to the present situation ; that
press criticism is being slurred over.
I am bound to point out that day after day the
preponderance of views cabled from London to Aus-
tralia in relation to the present crisis is culled from,
and attributed to, four newspapers—the “Times,” the
Manchester “Guardian,” the “News-Chronicle’' and
the “Daily Herald.” All four papers support the
Locarno Treaty and the policy of sanctions.
The “Times” and the Manchester “Guardian”
enjoy a wide repute. But they are read by compara-
tively few people. Between them they do not sell more
than 250,000 copies. A paper like the “Daily Express”
has a daily net sale ten times greater than that of
the “Times.”
The national newspapers which oppose sanctions
and Locarno, papers like the “Observer,” the “Even-
ing Standard” and all the papers in the Beaverbrook
and Rothermere groups, have a daily net sale exceed-
ing ten million copies. The “Evening Standard” Is
the “Times” of the evening newspaper world. Its
political influence is enormous. It is vitally opposed
to any policy of foreign entanglements for Britain.
The majority of the national newspapers published in
London are opposed to Locarno and opposed to
sanctions.
Australians would never think so from the news.
■ ♦
We Must Keep New Guinea.
Queensland’s Home Secretary Hanlon wants to give
back New Guinea, not only on ethical grounds, but
because he thinks it would benefit us to hand back
these rich islands, well dotted with harbors, full of
gold, rich in oil products and forming a strategic
barrier between Australia and the Orient.
It “would be obviously to the advantage of the
Australian people to have strong European nations
interested in the Pacific” ; “Australians would not feel
so lonely if they had such a neighbor.”
Nobody is quite sure of the native population
of the New Guinea colony, but it is large enough to
provide from 200,000 to 250,000 fighting men of a
calibre not to be sneezed at. Most of the islanders
are fearless scrappers, splendid shots, and take to drill
like a bottle-o to beer. During the last German regime
only a few of them were trained as official guards,
but nobody who saw that handful, drilled on Prussian
Guard lines, was likely to forget them. It was they,
not the Germans, who from the treetops shot Aus-
tralians in Bita Paka road.
Next time Germany would not be likely to make
the old mistakes. With Japan 300 miles away on the
northern flank —for Japan will never give up the Caro-
lines and the Marshalls —Germany would undoubtedly
see to it that there was a good naval base, a new
cruiser or two to float in it and a sufficient army to
defend the territory. Australia might not fear aggres-
sion, but would certainly have to meet the inevitable
competition with a large-scale army of its own, because
in this mixed world nobody seems to know who
will throw the next bottle or at whom.
♦
Starving the Permanent Defenders.
“Taxpayer” states a case:
Instead of spending “substantial sums” on boosting up
the forlorn militia, why not make the permanent defence
forces more attractive?
For one thing, restore the pay cuts and privileges,
the loss of which for more than five years has weighed
on every man in the services from ranker to senior officer,
lowering efficiency and breeding discontent. If hope and
security were put in the soldier’s knapsack the system would
soon become infused with a different spirit.
In 1930 the Scullin Government, seeking escape from
financial stress, requested members of the defence services to
accept 10 months’ pay for 12 months’ work. This was
applied as two weeks’ compulsory leave without pay in
each quarter, and was loyally carried through. Then in
1931 the defence forces were grafted on as a branch of the
civil service—and the pruning-knife, labelled “Financial Emer-
gency Act,” lopped every branch. It was understood that
these measures were to last for three years. Now, in 1936,
10 p.c. of the original cut stands.
Civil servants are not beset with publicity, but the
military staff officer is continually in the public eye, with a
position of dignity to uphold. He is expected to be always
well dressed and well uniformed. He must attend many
public functions. In the higher ranks he is expected to
entertain and extend the entente cordiale to many overseas
visitors. But he receives no allowances of any kind. He
must try to meet all such matters as well as his own private
living on his depleted pay.
As for marriage and a contribution to Australia’s popula-
tion, the drastic pay cuts, the insecurity and uncertainty are
not conducive to matrimony, and give no inducement to
help the birth-rate. Given better pay and conditions (the
ranker gets barely the basic wage), encouraged to marry and
have families, the permanent forces could be the most valu-
able citizens in the country.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED with WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Uramao”: There has been only one
recorded duel in Maoriland. A story
still lingers of how another such com-
bat was averted at the last moment. At
Auckland, in the ’sixties, an apothecary
occupying a seat at a theatre was ordered
by an army officer to move out and
make way for the Queen’s uniform. The
pestle-and-mortar man refused, and was
immediately challenged to a duel. Both
combatants were on the field of honor
to time. But at that point the chemist
put it to the officer that he understood
little of firearms and it would be unfair
to take advantage of his ignorance. As
an alternative, he drew from a box two
pills—one deadly poison and the other
harmless —and invited his antagonist to
take his choice, pledging himself to
swallow the other. The military gentle-
man called the duel off.
“Inaha”: Offering a librarian’s job at
£l6O a year, the city greybeards of Auck-
land (M.L.) received 15 applications.
Only one was without a university de-
gree ; the other 14 competitors comprised
six B.As., five M.As., two B.Scs. and one
M.Sc. All for three quid a week!
* * * *
“Eureka”: The most interesting war
souvenir I have ever seen belongs to a
former loco, driver of the 13th Bat-
talion. It illustrates the habit of many
infantrymen of putting their cutlery in a
handy place. The souvenir is a fork
bent double by an enemy bullet, which is
still attached to the fork. The owner
had the fork in the top of his puttee
when the bullet struck him. It cost him
a leg.
* * * *
“Jungor”; The striking revival of the
last few years in Westralian goldmining
and the renewal of activities almost every-
where seem good things for everyone
connected with or interested in the gold-
fields. Yet apparently it doesn’t follow.
When Parliamentary salaries were re-
stored, just before the recent elections,
to their old figure, an M.L.A. who repre-
sents a large tract of outback country
was proceeded against by his wife for an
increase in her maintenance order. But
the defendant pleaded that, while his
salary had been increased, the. duties
demanded of him and the expenses in-
curred thereby had also risen appreciably
owing to the mining boom and the
appearance of new settlements and the
re-emergence of old ones all over his
wide-flung constituency. The Court
nodded its head sympathetically—appli-
cation for increased maintenance dis-
missed.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”; The Norwegian
tanker Vardaas has provided a remark-
able testimonial to the efficiency of
modern ship-construction. She was
carrying 11,000 tons of oil from Singa-
pore to Sydney when a current-set
crashed her, amidst blinding rain and
heavy seas, on a reef off Point Danger.
After three terrific bumps, a big sea
took her across, miraculously without
damage to her propellers, but the tremen-
dous impact buckled the hull clear
across, 60 feet from her bow, actually
shortening the ship a foot. No hull has
ever before survived such an impact.
They got her round, and made for
Moreton Bay, 70 miles northward, with
a heavy quartering sea. The fractured
edges of her steel plates ground out
sparks, any one of which might have set
her cargo afire. Aided by the torrential
rain and the ship’s hoses, with a wake
of leaking oil to hold the breaking seas,
she limped at last to shelter under Cape
Moreton. Skoal to the Viking, Captain
Finn Larsen!
* # * *
“Binduli”: I don’t know what claims
two-up has to be considered a national
sport (B. 4/3/’36), but it is worth noting
that some people bespeak the same dis-
tinction for the pursuit of the tin hare.
“ Dammit, fellow —go down and shave!”
Thus T. M, Shakespeare, a member of
the Canberra Advisory Council, in the
course of a bitter protest against the
Federal Government’s refusal to permit
greyhound racing in the F.C.T.:
The concession is being refused by
people who have probably never seen a
greyhound catch a hare in their lives....
Greyhound racing is a national sport,
especially for the poorer class.
It reminds me that when whippet-racing
was a popular pastime at Kalgoorlie and
Boulder, some enthusiastic votary of the
sport described the speedy tyke as “the
poor man’s racehorse.” “Likely to keep
him poor, too,” commented a cynic with
some behind-the-scenes knowledge of the
ramps worked with canine sprinters.
sfc #
“Naphtali”: Not all the Australian
politicians who have “labelled their lug-
gage London” will debit travelling costs
and incidentals to their accommodating
country. One who will not is N.S.W.
Speaker Daniel Levy, who, it is an-
nounced, is on “a purely holiday trip
though he will study Parliamentary
procedure while in Britain, all his ex-
penses will come out of his own pocket.”
This is creditable to Danny, though what
additional expenses he could incur in
London by studying Parliamentary pro-
cedure is something of a mystery. The
only place for such work would obvi-
ously be the Houses of Parliament,
where admission is free to everyone and
where a visiting Speaker from overseas
would have every possible facility
accorded to him gratis for pursuing his
investigations. Even the bus or taxi
fares required for frequent transport to
Westminster from any part of London
would be a very small item. A really
zealous investigator might possibly spend
a few days in the British Museum as
well, but that is equally free to all and
even more central. Still, it is refreshing
to learn that Levy’s jaunt will cost no-
body except Levy a single sixpence—
except for his salary, perhaps.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: “S.G.’s” reference (B.
4/3/’36) to the dignity of representative
men reminds me of an occasion when
H.M.S. Mildura was lying alongside the
jetty at Nukualofa. His sable Majesty
King George 11. of Tonga had signified
his intention of formally calling, and all
hands and the cook were on deck to re-
ceive him. At the time fixed the royal
procession hove in sight, H.M. in the
colorful uniform of a European general,
his Ministers frock-coated and top-hatted.
It was all very regal and extremely well
stage-managed until George 11. stepped
over the side and bashed his white helmet
against the bottom of a boat swung over-
head. There stood the last of the Pacific’s
kings fairly “bonneted,” his outstretched
hand vainly groping for that of the “Old
Man.” I got a month’s leave stopped for
guffawing.
* * * *
“Biltong”: Isn’t passion-fruit (B.
11/3/’36) a purely Australian name for
the edible product of the genus Passi-
flora, or at all events anything but a
world-wide one? I first encountered the
pleasant compound of pulp and pips in
South Africa, where it flourishes luxuri-
antly, but there it was always the “grana-
dilla,” from the Spanish diminutive of
a pomegranate.
•{» »!»
“Sixenate”: A man who unsuccessfully
sued two N.S.W. police officers for
wrongful arrest complained, among addi-
tional hardships alleged, that food was a
long time in making its appearance when
he was locked up and that he was
merely provided with a spoon for
tackling it when it did come. Yet there
was nothing exceptional in either griev-
ance. Food is supposed to be supplied
to all persons under arrest, but the
hungry man cannot count upon getting
it promptly. A restaurant in Oxford-
street does a good business provid-
ing “cut-up” meals ordered by friends
for the people in the cells at Dar-
linghurst station, the police - station
fare being poor by comparison. Th?
feed has to be a “cut-up” because only
spoons are allowed ; in gaol, knives are
still taboo, but forks are sometimes ad-
mitted, unless the prisoner is suspected
of suicidal tendencies. There was actu-
ally an attempt at suicide on one occa-
sion with a spoon sharpened against a
cell wall.
* * * * .
“Corporal Wanst”: Henceforth British
Army n.c.os. and privates on leave or
“walking out” may wear the blue patrol
jacket and overalls which were once the
undress kit of officers only. It will be a big
improvement on the hideous scarlet tunic
and bell-bottomed breeks with the idiotic
field-service cap of the pre-war days.
One may expect the “walking-out”
charges of the infantry private at least
to go up. In the good old days the
London housemaid who wanted an in-
fantry private for her Sunday off had to
pay him a shilling and a pint of beer,
prices being higher to those damsels
whose aspirations ran to cavalry or even
a Guardsman. I should say that a
partner in smart “blues” would now
be worth at least a florin and a couple
of pots.
* sji * *
“Nkata” (New Guinea): “J.R.D.” (B.
6/11/’35) refers to Aussies in a dugout
near Neuve Eglise in 1915. The only
Australian mob that was in France or
Belgium prior to May, 1916, was a motor
transport outfit —and its personnel never
frequented dugouts.
* * *
“Gamboge”: There are ingenious artists
as well as photographers (B. 26/2/’36). I
have in mind a Melbourne one who would
pick on a big garden home in a swish
suburb, and set his easel up somewhere
near the entrance gates. If the curious
householder asked him what he was
painting the place for he would sigh:
“It looked so beautiful as I was passing.
I simply had to.” That generally worked,
and the artist would be invited to come
inside and paint where he would get a
better view and have more privacy. He
was a good workman, too, and knew how
to please. If things fell out as he
planned, when his picture was finished
he would be asked if he would be
offended if —well, “we would like to buy
it.” He was never offended.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: There are some hustlers
left in the U.S.A., despite Rooseveltism.
Recently a statement went the rounds of
the yellower press concerning
the discovery of a chemical
which is claimed to exercise a
definite effect in promoting
nuclear division in the ovarian
cells of certain animals. A
little later, an enterprising drug
firm was advertising to the
future mothers of the race:
“The Dionne Quins Are Worth
a Million Dollars. Our Sex-
tupline Tablets Can Make You Rich
and Famous. Become the Mother
of the World’s Record Family. Only
Five Dollars for a Box of Ten Tablets.
Success Guaranteed.”
He * * *
“Fiona”: I have been to many wed-
dings, all of which have passed off in
the usual pleasant fashion, but I have
just discovered that even a marriage
ceremony can furnish diversion. I
joined a family christening party at a
suburban church, and found we had to
wait until a young couple had been made
one. All went well until the parson
made the usual inquiry about any just
impediment. Then a feminine voice
arose from the back pew. “ ’Ow’s ’e
gonner keep ’er?” it demanded. I
shall always remember the baleful look
the bridegroom cast on the inquirer as
he led his bride vestrywards at the con-
clusion of the affair.
* * * *
“King’s Inns”; Engrossing of legal
documents (B. 11/3/’36) by hand o’ write
reminds me of another old custom, be-
longing to the times when English
sovereigns were mightier with sword than
pen, which lingered into the reign of
Edward VII. All through the reign of
Queen Victoria the Sheriff’s Roll was
pricked with a bodkin by the royal hand.
Towards the close of her life the Queen
found this somewhat tiresome, and the
Clerk of the Privy Council invented a
machine to take it's place. But it was
never used; the old lady, a stickler for
tradition, kept up the time-honored
custom to the end of her days. Most
likely Edward VIII. does it with a brief
“0.K.”
A CONTINGENCY.
“In his message to Parliament concerning the
Civil List, the King desired that the contingency o£
his marriage should be taken into account.”
He’s forty-two or near, yet still unmated.
When good old Queen Victoria held the
stage,
A prince whom such a destiny awaited
Would have been shackled up at half the
age.
He’s dodged his obligations hymeneal
With singular success, you must agree,
But still (observe) his marriage is a real
Contingency.
Old Teddy Roosevelt was always ready
To urge his Yanks to “keep your cradles
full”;
Such an injunction from our English Teddy
Would obviously lack example’s pull.
Kings should be models, there’s an old idea,
In this. And at the worst it’s good to see
Our sovereign’s nuptials haven’t ceased to be a
Contingency.
In bachelordom still, a lone defaulter,
He lags, with all the precedents defied,
Though ev’ry younger brother’s faced the altar
To make a duchess of a blushing bride.
His union—touching which they used to
write of
Many a likely maid of high degree—
Is still regarded merely in the light of
Contingency.
Though middle age is stealthily impending,
Heart up, you matchmakers! There’s still
a chance
That single cussedness will find an ending
In long-delayed but radiant romance.
A throne seems feebly filled unless you set a
Couple thereon—a She to match the He—
And (glory be!) it seems a Queen is yet a
Contingency.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Ming”: Deserting husbands some-
times turn up in unexpected places. The
one I have in mind disappeared some
years ago, leaving no trace but taking
all the cash he could muster with him ;
after a reasonable time his wife divorced
him and remarried. Recently the grown-
up son of her second marriage, a bank
clerk, attained distinction as a soloist.
A message that he was going to sing in
the local cathedral sent his proud
mother to the country town to hear his
effort, and while there she saw her ex-
husband. He didn’t recognise her, and
she had no reason for making herself
known to him. But it was the discarded
gentleman’s occupation at the moment
of recognition that intrigued his one-
time wife. He was taking round the
church plate!
* * *
“Flimfan”: Reference to a “Hamlet”
silent film produced in Maoriland some
years ago (B. 11/3/’36) recalls that a
certain Mr. Korda, who made public
the private life of Henry VIII., forecasts
“Who gave you THAT mongrel?”
“Your mother gave me this one also, darling.”
a ta |^ le version of the story of the melan-
choly Dane. He adds the assurance that
the soliloquies in this play have been wait-
ing for centuries for close-ups to do them
real justice. Maoriland is not the only
country to have staged a celluloid ver-
S 10 f n Hamlet.” They did it in Bombay
it ears . a §° —but it was worded in
rdu. Incidentally, modern India is
becoming extravagantly film-minded,
ibere are over 1200 small ram-
shackle cinema outfits travelling round
the country by car. And the licentious-
ness of some of these productions is such
as would be permitted nowhere else in
the world.
* * * *
“Rooibatje”: The attractions of a uni-
form, whether military or naval, for the
susceptible sex (B. 11/3/’36) used to be
undoubted, and were always stressed by
recruiting sergeants in the spacious Vic-
torian days. But I fancy the pull was
lessened —in the case of soldiers any-
how when the
nations gradually
came to the judicious
resolution that glitter-
ing colors were an un-
necessary handicap for
men in the field, and
that the “thin red
line” might well be
displaced by muddy
brown and incon-
spicuous grey. When
the Great War had
fairly started, color
didn’t matter so
much; I recall an
Australian archbishop
exhorting the younger
feminine members of
his flock to turn a
cold eye on suitors
who weren’t ready to
join up ; “ ‘No khaki,
no girl,’ should be
your mo 11 o,” his
Grace bluntly told them. Still, khaki in
itself is hardly an exhilarating color, and
there is no real reason why the militia,
or the volunteers, or the citizen army —
call it whichever you like —should be
denied anything likely to make them feel
more martial or look more gallant.
* * * *
“Tripod”: “Laetitia” (B. 4/3/’36) is
slightly incorrect when he says that an
aviator named Bird crashed in the Bris-
bane River in 1919, when prevented by
a surging crowd from landing in the
Domain. Even to-day it would need a
helicopter to land or take off in the
Domain. The scene of Bird’s crash was
on Bulimba Point, opposite the wharves
at New Farm, where a makeshift aero-
drome had been cleared (I still have recol-
lections of the aviator’s caustic com-
ments re barbed-wire fences). Bird’s was
the first aeroplane to land at Brisbane.
The second was the Handley-Page carry-
ing Ross and Keith Smith.
* * * *
“Danny the Doper”: Those in the
know are smiling over the nonsense
printed about mysterious launches which
pick up opium from vessels off the N.Q.
coast for distribution to southern capi-
tals. Whatever is done in that way is
for local consumption only. The south
gets its dope direct, distributed judi-
ciously through bulky crates and cases
of general merchandise. Usually it is
contained in some of the articles them-
selves, secretly marked for identification.
Opium is relatively unimportant—
heroin and cocaine have many more
votaries, yield much more profit, and
are far easier to smuggle. What
Customs service could open and examine
each individual item of, say, a 100-gross
lot order of tinned stuff? A dozen small
tins full of “snow” would yield a profit
of hundreds of pounds. The game is
worked through packers at each end.
“T.P.”: Touching the objections of
the unco guid to lottery wins (B.
4/3/’36), my ancient grandad, a Wes-
'' r o
leyan with inherited reverence for the
immortal John, had a favorite recitation
which gave great delight to us nippers,
“Sorry to Wake y ', mister, but y'r Wanted on the ’ phone .”
It dealt with Gaffer Treweek, who pasted
his wife’s secret lottery ticket on the
kitchen door, then “rarstled in prayer
wi’ er, and told class meetin’ all ’bout
it. Members brought matter before the
Looard, you.” The ticket won the big
prize, and Gaffer tried vainly to soak it
off. Here my progenitor would rise to a
sublime pitch of athletic eloquence. “He
dragged that there door from its moorin’s,
and staggered down street in Penzance to
claim that cash.”
# * # *
“Alea”: I never stated that State lot-
tery winnings were subject to income
tax (B. 11/3/’36). What I did say was
that two Sydney citizens who were
heavily fined for wilful understatement
of income were shown to have included
£250 from this alleged source in one of
their yearly returns. Counsel for the
prosecution suggested that it was done as
an offset to other business returns which
they had omitted to disclose. Whether
the Commissioner of Taxation pointed
out their mistake to them was not men-
tioned.
* * *
“Bo”: The N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment may frown on the anonymous
letter (B. 11/3/’36), but the Ma State’s
Railway Department doesn’t. Every
anonymous letter is given the same atten-
tion as the signed one ; indeed, most of
the dismissals for pilfering
can be traced to such in-
formation. Nine-tenths of
these communications
come from next - door
neighbors or ex-friends,
while spiteful relatives
occasionally get in an
effective dig. One em-
ployee had a penchant for
lifting bars of soap,
sponge-cloths, etc., and
distributing them with a
careless liberality among
his neighbors. When Mrs.
Next-door was socked by
the Water Board for using
a hose without a garden
license, that irate lady sus-
pected the source of the
anonymous letter on
which the board had
acted, and hit back.
Sequel: A raid by railway
detectives on the home of
the soap-distributing gent.,
the recovery -of divers
items of departmental
goods and the “bullet.” The anonymous
letter is indubitably the most contempt-
ible form of attack known, but the Rail-
way Department doesn’t discourage it.
* * * *
“Oran”: This chatter in the daily press
of gunmen, usually “notorious,” makes
me weary. If the term means, as presum-
ably it does, one who is known to carry
a gun habitually, and that for an unlaw-
ful purpose, why don’t the police get
busy and have a periodic collection of
such firearms? The other day one paper
reported the case of a youth who “never
moved without his revolver,” and cases
of other miscreants “known to be always
armed” are frequently mentioned. If an
ordinary citizen were known to go about
armed the police would soon be on his
qooj-stgp asking for his license. And
surely “notorious gunmen” are not given
licenses.
“Kwakprak”: When Mrs. Jones found
the third Joneslet nuzzling savagely at
a capable breast that could feed several
more of him, her first remark was: “Oh
Gawd, doctor, ’owever will we bring
’im up?” Mr. Jones “works” on the
dole, but his specialty is racing. He has
never, at 24, learned a trade or developed
the muscular power of a genuine laborer.
He has four brothers, all like himself,
thriftless, unskilled, underdeveloped—
and fathers of families. He is a good-
hearted chap—indeed, he has just been
telling me that the six nurses and two
doctors who attended the Countess
Reventlow are just what he’d give his
missus if he won the flamin’ Casket.
Mrs. Jones does not quite agree with
him. Her comment, upon hearing that
the titled young mother had had a bad
time despite all her scientific supervision,
was “Pore woman —it’s all a matter of
luck. Jist shows what use doctors and
nurses really are!”
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The N.S.W. South
African Soldiers’ Association is claiming
from the N.S.W. Government some
£27,000 which belonged to the privately-
subscribed Patriotic Fund. Less than half
of this had been devoted to the pur-
poses for which it was intended when,
in 1914, the Holman Government trans-
ferred the balance of £27,000 to a fund
of its own, where it was merged with
odds and ends of other funds and lost
its identity. The same joke was worked
with the Queensland fund. Only about
a third of this ever reached the returned
soldiers, and even badly-wounded men
had a hard time collecting a fragment
of their claims. Several attempts were
made by the Government to grab the
balance, but a vigilant committee de-
feated each move. Finally the Denham
Government succeeded in getting the
necessary order from a Supreme Court
Judge, and the money vanished into
some Government oubliette.
* * * *
“Science III”: At one of Melbourne’s
beaches last week a well-dressed man
pushed a cycle down to the water, un-
loaded a big bundle off the carrier and
pedalled away. The usual two or three
beach loungers scrutinised the bundle
suspiciously, and somebody suggested
ringing up the police station, when the
cyclist reappeared, this time with a
shovel, and began to dig vigorously.
“What are you digging for?” demanded
one of the onlookers. “Gold,” was the
brief response, which merely deepened
the atmosphere of suspicion. The spec-
tators now numbered a dozen, and various
sinister theories were being broached in
undertones when a loud voice from
behind cut in. “That’s no good, Joe ; the
tide will wash it up again.” The digger
paused and looked dismally at the waves.
“I suppose it will,” he said sadly, and
began to fill up his excavation. Another
stickybeak plucked up courage. “Say,
what have you got in that bundle?” he
asked harshly. “A quarter of beef gone
bad,” said the operator, with a sour grin.
“What the hell did you think it was?”
The little crowd drifted away.
THE ECONOMISTS.
“Ten members of the House of Reps., aggrieved
at the slight increase of Canberra hotel tariffs,
have decided to live at Queanbeyan, where bed and
breakfast are obtainable for sixpence a day less.
The Government will provide free cars to carry
them to and from Parliament House.”
No more at Canberra they’ll rest their weary
Limbs, or assault their matutinal scran.
Why not? you ask—a reasonable query
Admittedly to put to any man.
But—don’t be supercilious or sneery—
It costs a tanner less at Queanbeyan
To hit the blankets with your arms and legs.
And with your knife and fork the ham and
eggs.
Green as the Garden City is, and gracious
With gorgeous growth of tree and flower and
shrub,
These statesmen reckon it a bit vexatious,
This nine-and-six a day for roost and grub.
They seek some victualler who’s less pre-
daceous,
Some homelier variety of pub.
What need they care how far away it be
When transport of their patriot frames is free.
A penny saved in any lawful manner,
Some good old saw declares, is twopence
got;
And if the chaps who hump the Labor banner
And wax in periodic faction hot
Can similarly duplicate a tanner,
Well, why the blinking blazes should they
not?
For high and low to make a point of thrift
Is surely quite an enviable gift.
No humble bus, no lumbering double-decker,
Bears them away for sustenance and rest
To that snug rendezvous where bed and
“brekker”
Await the tired Parliamentary guest
At slightly less demand on his exchequer
Than if there’s naught would serve him but
the best.
But who is there would grudge our M.H.Rs.
The soft amenities of gratis cars?
Each day they seek in smoothly-whirling taxis
Their far from unremunerative job;
At framing statutes and at grinding axes
They’re listed as a conscientious mob.
And when at night each jaded frame relaxes
They’ll save a sprat—or possibly a bob.
The only drawback to their frugal ways
Is that, as usual, the country pays.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


C **Av
%
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
20 for re
IO y „rO J
è
Ot£*H£4floeJt
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
a
&
é
CORK
FRED
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T
POLITICAL POINTS
The brightest note in foreign uproar
for months was England, France, Belgium
cmd Italy meeting in conference in Paris
last week in re Germany v. Locarno.
Anyone present with a sense of humor
must have risked apoplexy when Flandin
tabled France’s demands, of which item
four was “sanctions.” The conference
was “being conducted in the closest
secrecy,” but, with Italy asked to join in
asking the League of Nations to enforce
sanctions against Germany, a giggle at
least must have leaked out.
In the incredible event of sanctions
being enforced against Germany and
Germany objecting to them, and then
Italy deciding to object too, every good
Briton would have a happy choice in
exercising his privilege of dying in all
European wars. He could do it with
the League against Italy to the south,
or with the League and Italy against
Germany to the north. This is called
“collective security.”
Under Locarno the Briton would have
another choice if France went for Ger-
many—the Briton would then b© obliged
to fight for Hitler. Whatever way the
cat jumps, the Briton fights.
Things became completely Gilbertian
when the venue of the conference was
changed to London. There, after Thurs-
day’s meeting, it was “officially an-
nounced that Italy had agreed with
France and Britain that Germany had
violated treaties.” France and Britain, of
course, accuse Italy of violent law-break-
ing in the Abyssinian shindy. Italy
accuses Britain of similar malpractice in
the Anglo-German Naval Pact, and
France would fling stones in the same
direction on slight provocation. Also,
Italy hates the Soviet utterly, and the
Franco-Soviet Pact is the main reason
given by Germany for the action that
started the discussions. It is working out
this kind of problem in relationships that
gives genealogists a haggard look.
The Abyssinians show signs of crack-
ing up, and the superannuated brasshats
who do the campaign comments for
British newspapers are now falling
over one another to laud Italian
generals and soldiers, whom they have
hitherto dismissed as dunces and duds.
To unprejudiced observers it was evident
from the outset that African barbarians
could not stand up long against Euro-
peans with modern weapons and trans-
port ; and the alleged Abyssinian nation
was doomed in any case, because it was a
house divided against itself. It consists
really of a few slave-owning tribes, most
of whose “empire” has been seized
within the last 50 years or so ; but of
this the people of Britain and the
Dominions have not been told.
Fed. Labor’s inevitable session-open-
ing censure motion debate was enlivened
by the rebellion of Stewart, former Un-
employment Secretary, who told the Gov-
ernment that he was not prepared to see
the industrial machine put into reverse
when unemployment was still 13.7 p.c. of
employees. He accused Treasurer Casey
of treating members “like a lot of dull
schoolboys” in explaining the Common-
wealth Bank’s Treasury bill issue.
To be fair, Stewart might have added
that the Treasurer had justification for
treating the House like kindergarteners.
A House which allows its weeks to be
wasted, session after session, in empty
stonewalling tirades, and then has to
pack most of its real business into a few
screaming hours of gag and division
towards the end, deserves to be treated
as dull —or worse. After a couple of
days’ talk the censure collapsed on the
party vote.
Pearce spoke for every Australian when
he declared in the Senate that “it is un-
thinkable that Australia should even con-
sider the handing over of any Territory.”
This was the Government’s reply to the
propaganda passing through the Euro-
pean Chancelleries in favor of a return
to Germany of her former Territories,
in particular New Guinea. The only
reply that could be given.
In Sydney any political windbag has
only to stand up and suggest immorality
on anybody’s part and the Government
will at once appoint a royal commission.
A recent example was the royal com.
inquiry into wild charges regarding land
deals. Mr. Lang made them and, char-
acteristically, didn’t try to substantiate
them before the com., whose report
“completely exonerated” all the parties
“Under the Locarno Treaty, if France attacks Hitler, Britain must fight for Hitler, and
if Hitler attacks France, Britain must fight for France. At the conference of Locarno Powers
in London Italy agreed that Germany had violated treaties. The League Committee of
Thirteen is considering further sanctions against Italy. Etc.”
“I’m off —this world’s become too Gilbertian for ME !”
aspersed. Now Lazzarini has accused
unnamed policemen of perjury, corrup-
tion and other viciousness committed at
the expense .of alleged starting-price
bettors. Cassar’s wife shrieked with
horror. A royal commission was
appointed immediately. Later the people
will foot the bill.
The Seamen’s Union is broke to the
wide, and most of its members —poor
devils! —are on the beach ; but it still
has the initiative (too much), the
referendum (tempered by minority fists
and shouts of “Scab!”) and the recall.
Jake Johnson, the late gen. sec., was
recalled because he was against the sui-
cide strike. Now Keenan, the “fairly
active Communist” who got Jake’s job, is
to be recalled because he was for the
strike. The same Keenan tried to get
appointed to the Disputes Committee of
the Labor Council, but, although his
qualifications were pre-eminent, he some-
how missed.
The Court of Disputed Returns, in-
voked in Westralia by Labor Minister
Kenneally to cancel the verdict of the
East Perth electors in returning T. J.
Hughes, may rule that Hughes—being a
bankrupt at the time, though he is one
no longer—was disqualified from stand-
ing as a candidate and that the next man
on the poll should have the seat. To
decide who that was would involve a
fresh count, for if all the votes cast for
Hughes were reckoned null and void the
same wouldn’t necessarily, or even logi-
cally, apply to the second preferences of
his supporters, most of which probably
went to Hughes’s brother. Should the
Court decide for a fresh election Hughes
might down Kenneally again, and a
second success for him would be Govern-
ment’s “crown of sorrow.”
On June 30, 1930, the public debt of
the Commonwealth and the States was
£1,100,597,100, which worked out at
£l7O 15s. Id. per head. At the end of
1935 the total debt had increased to
£lB5 17s. lOd. That
is what borrowing,
birth control and emi-
gration have done for
this country,
Maoriland’s Leg.
Councillors are Gov-
e r n m e n t appointees,
but there’s an Act
providing for elec-
tions. There are only
26 Legislative Coun-
cillors at present,
mostly extremely aged. Instead of abol-
ishing them or forcing them to go elec-
tioneering the Government has decided
on the simpler course of appointing 10
more members, calculated to add enough
radical flavor to that already in the
Chamber.
Queensland’s Minister “for” Transport
in a tirade against critics of his Transport
Commissars accused the secretary of
the Chamber of Commerce of travelling
the country to organise hostile meetings.
The secretary is ex officio secretary of all
the Chamber’s committees, and has been
too busy to get out of Brisbane for
months. Moreover, party politics are
barred by the constitution of the
Chamber. What seems to have raised
Mr. Dash’s particular ire is the publicity
given by the Chamber’s Transport Com-
mittee to Section 7 (1) of the State
Transport Act, 1932, which makes it the
duty of the board to give consideration
to the impartial and equitable treatment
of all conflicting interests in relation to
transport matters.
Queensland’s Transport Strangulation
Board’s good deed for the week has been
to push all commercial goods transport
off the Palmerston Highway, recently
built at vast expense to open up the scrub
lands between Innisfail and Millaa Mil-
laa (N.Q.), This means, in effect, that
the new selectors will either have to buy
a truck apiece or revert to the horse and
cart.
The union bosses of Queensland’s Min-
ister “for” Transport mean to larn them
cows of a public what unionism can do.
Paying clerks in the Railway Depart-
ment have been issued with a list of 25
recognised unions and of the require-
ments for financial membership in each.
Pay sheets must show the union to which
each employee belongs and the expiry
date of his ticket. Lists of employees
who fail to produce proof of active mem-
bership will be forwarded to branch
heads. Cabinet has notified employees
that those who do not produce proof
of financial membership will be fired,
presumably irrespective of family or
other obligations or anything else.
No holidaying Premier has ever been
buttered so much as Stevens was before
he left Sydney. This was the effort of
Playfair, M.L.C, (Fresh Food and
Ice): —
The fact that Mr. Stevens saved N. S.
Wales and Australia is as well known in
England as in Australia. The U.A.P. in
N.S.W. is now the biggest political party
in the Southern Hemisphere.
Perhaps Dairy Farmers would have ex-
celled even that, but evidently no Dairy
Farmer was present.
Despite interest in “wot won the last”
Australians are a thrifty race. During
the year ended January 31, according to
latest savings bank statistics, they put
£7,913,000 down south. The total in
Australian savings banks now exceeds
£221,000,000. New South Wales heads
the list with savings bank deposits of
£78,925,000, but relative to population
Vic. savings bank credits are greater at
£72,358,000. Queensland has £26,939,000 ;
South Australia, £24,711,000; Westralia,
£11,271,000; Tasmania, £6,602,000.
Jock Garden is the champion political
resurrectionist. He lost his Labor poli-
tical life after the war, only to rise as
head of the Communist party. Pain-
lessly slaughtered by the Communists, he
retired to the ash heap, but was suddenly
discovered in a halo and alderman’s robes
running the Inner Group, and was exalted
as an M.P. If his enemies—now hitting
hard in a Lang v. Garden struggle—can
only kill him again, who knows to what
heights he may rise.
“J.W.” wonders where it goes:
The high cost of internationalism was illus-
trated by the amazing delegation costs which
the Prime Minister recited to Parliament with-
out a blush. As an instance, the expenses of
W. M. Hughes and Donald Cameron, with
staff of four, from London to Geneva only
during the height of the depression in ’32
were £1344, and the 1934 delegation—F. H.
Stewart and four minions—cost £1322, though
the leader’s expenses were paid only at Geneva.
Yet the journey is comparable in length to
that from Brisbane to Sydney—single fare by
air from London £B—and hotel charges are
about the same as in Sydney or Melbourne.
My costs to a conference a few years ago,
staying at a leading hotel which housed dele-
gations during the conference, and having
every ordinary luxury that the delegates had,
was £7B, including fare to and from London.


THE RISE AND FALL OF ROMEO.


SAVE
|UL DF PETROL
every hour you drive
by using
B
e
SSSC
lifcf
ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU MONEY
PERSONAL ITEM S
The choice of E. F. Harrison as one
of Australia’s flight of Geneva doves this
year is somewhat ironic—his career
has been almost entirely military, with
the exception that after he left Sydney
Grammar School he took a degree at
Cambridge. He joined the R.A.A. in
1903, served in India on exchange, passed
the Staff College at Camberley, and when
war broke out was Commonwealth direc-
tor of military training. Harrison be-
came G.5.0.l of the 3rd Division, and
after the Armistice was successively Tas-
manian commandant, director of mili-
tary operations and intelligence. He had
a period on the British staff, and com-
manded Duntroon during the gloomy
years 1929-31. Then Bendigo put him
info the Federal House.
Commander HILARY OWEN, H.M.A.S.
Penguin.
Fremantle loses G. H. Moore, Federal
Quarantine officer, who is known to
every overseas passenger, and who
moves to Adelaide. He has now served
in most States, and has been four years
in Fremantle.
No woman in the world probably was
the mother of as many journalists as was
Mrs. Dexter, the wife of sporting-writer
“Pilot” (J.F.) Dexter, who died last week.
The six sons and one daughter, who are
all associated with newspaper work, in-
clude Bob Dexter, formerly a regular
Bulletin contributor, but now in charge
of the publicity of Warner Brothers’ First
National in London.
Passed out on his eighty-sixth birth-
day, Charlie Baxter, whose name in the
days when pedestrianism was pedestrian-
ism, was as well known as a Prime Min-
ister’s. , In the early ’seventies his 14|sec.
for 150 yards was a sensation only
matched by his 9jsec. for the 100 yards
in a race for the M.L. championship. He
was a son of a Taralga (N.S.W.) grazier,
and was discovered by the late Charles
Mac Alister, who noticed his speed as he
chased breakaway steers.
Alexander Kelman Stevens, who
asked to be struck off the roll of solici-
tors and who was admitted to the
N.S.W. Bar early this month, is a brainy
youngster who in 1932 secured his LL.B.
at Sydney University with first-class
honors, and was awarded the University
Medal and the John George Dailey Prize
for the most distinguished student gradu-
ating in law for his year. In the preced-
ing year he was awarded the George and
Matilda Harris Scholarship for general
proficiency on the results of the third-
year- exam. Since his admission as a
solicitor early in 1933 he has been prac-
tising in partnership with C. A. Morgan
in Sydney. He has made company law
his special study.
“Athanasius”: The Very Rev. Dr.
David Kennedy, S.M., who has died at
Wellington (M.L.) had a highly scientific
mind. At the Marist seminary at
Meeanee, Hawke’s Bay, he built and
equipped one of the best observatories in
M.L., and under his direction it became
an official meteorological station. He was
an F.R.A.S. and an F.R.M.S. Born in
Lyttelton 72 years ago, he was educated
in Ireland, England, Spain and Italy, but
did his whole life’s work in M.L.
Charles Chuter, who has been
appointed Under-Secretary to the
Queensland Health and Home Affairs
office, is a small, auburn-haired bundle
of energy who has lived in the Home
Secretary’s office since the year one. He
has been acting in the job for a year.
Nobody in Queensland has a wider
knowledge of public-hospital organisa-
tion.
Colonel J. L. Sleeman, the Chief Over-
seas Commissioner of the Order of St.
John of Jerusalem, has a name with a
magic sound in India, where his grand-
father was the suppressor of thuggee, to
the great sorrow of an ancient order of
sporting men who looked on their in-
clusion under the British system of
order and good government as a grave
injustice to a skilled profession. The
colonel joined the army, in which he had
a catholic experience. He was attache
to the Japanese fleet for two years during
the war, after being second in command
of his regiment, the 16th Lancers, in
Flanders. He was chief of staff of the
M.L. forces 1919-21, and it was his tests
which proved the entrenching-tool a
practical war implement. He has written
widely on army tactics, thuggery and big-
game shooting.
Assistant general
manager of the
Dutch Royal
Packet line, D.
Lammers, leaves
this month to spend
a year in Europe.
As a captain of the
K.P.M. fleet, Lam-
mers learned the
tact which mollifies
old-lady travellers
who blame ship-
masters for turning
on typhoons, and
a commercial brain
and a strong jaw
were born with
him. Like all
Netherlanders, he
has to be a linguist
and a cosmopoli-
tan, and 10 years
in Australia have
almost given him a
dual nationality
which allows him
even to play golf
D. LAMMERS, of K.P.M.
with relish. He married an Australian,
and his three daughters are Australian-
born.
“Hamfat”: Gus Bluett, the favored of
the gods, and dying young in fulfilment
of the old adage, was always a big
theatrical draw. His perfect ease on the
stage would no doubt have established a
world reputation if he had gone abroad
—he was always*threatening to do it. He
had, moreover, a Peter Pan quality. He
never really grew up. Fred Bfuett, his
father, had to be satisfied with £3 per
week in his early days with Fullers in
Maoriland ; but Gus, making his first
big hit as one of the “Bing Boys on
Broadway” when he was merely 15, has
been used to big money ever since, and
had no regard for it; he wanted to spend
it on his family first, and after that it
belonged to anyone who asked for it. He
was only 32 when he died.
The British press is deeply surprised
to find the lined, well-controlled face of
Thomas Inskip, the Attorney-General,
turning up above the chair of the new
Minister for Defence, but he is no more
unlikely as a military organiser than
Billy Hughes or Lloyd George. Energy
and pugnacity are his main characteris-
tics —a well-mannered bull-terrier of a
man. And he at least has seen thoroughly
the inside of one service, for he was
with Naval Intelligence during most of
the war, and was head of the Naval Law
Branch and Admiralty representative on
the War Crimes Committee. He is an
incisive speaker and a staunch Unionist.
The new precentor of Melbourne’s
Anglican Cathedral can certainly claim
to have been brought up in the church—
he was educated at St. Andrew’s Choir
School in Sydney, became a teacher there
and served as a curate at Orange and
Ashfield (N.S.W.) and as rector of Spring-
wood (N.S.W.). In 1930 he was
appointed precentor of Newcastle
(N.S.W.) cathedral. He is one of Aus-
tralia’s leading authorities on church
music.
A familiar figure comes back to Sydney
in Armand Nihotte, who has been
Consul-General for Belgium in M.L. and
who is to act in the Commonwealth
during the absence abroad of Consul-
General Henry Saegert. After the war,
in which he fought with distinction,
Nihotte served most of his Consular
apprenticeship here, and married an Aus-
tralian —a daughter of Justinian Oxen-
ham, one time head of the postal de-
partment.
The new Marquess of Lansdowne, who
is only 18, beats all records in the age
of his foundation titles—except the Duke
of Norfolk, whose ancestors have been
Earls of Arundel, by tenure of Arundel
Castle, since 1139.
Young Lansdowne
is twenty - eighth
Lord Kerry. His
title dates from
1172, and he has
10 other titles —he
is everything in the
peerage except a
duke. His father,
who died last week,
was an authority
on Napoleonic his-
tory, particularly
that which dealt
with the Third
Empire, and a per-
sistent editor of
family papers. The
sixth marquess’s
political career was
modest, though he
sat both in the
Commons and the
Free State Senate
in his time, but
previous mar-
quesses made up
for that. Four generations of them pro-
duced one Prime Minister, one Chancel-
lor of the Exchequer and a combined
War and Foreign Secretary who was both
G.-G. of Canada and Viceroy of India.
Malcolm Sargent, who comes to Aus-
tralia to conduct for the A.8.C., was
due here a couple of years ago, but illness
prevented the visit. He is one of the
best of the younger conductors—this year
he is 41. He began his musical life as
an articled pupil in Peterborough
Cathedral, and took his bachelor’s degree
in music just before the war, in which
he served in the 27th Durham L.I. His
choral performances since would fill a
book— Gilbert and Sullivan seasons,
talkie grand opera cos., philharmonics
and symphony organisations. Since 1928
he has been chief conductor to the Royal
Choral Society.
G. S. Knowles is one of the galaxy of
legal lights who made their way into the
Commonwealth service in 1901-02. Born
in Ipswich (Q.), Knowles was educated in
“Mr. Solicitor-General .”
Toowoomba G.S. and at Trinity College,
Melbourne, where he took his L.L.M.
Then he had three years in the Queens-
land Public Service before joining the
Federal p.s., in which he climbed to the
chief clerkship of the Attorney-General’s
Department under the tutelage of Robert
Garran. In 1932 he was appointed to
his present job. The C.B.E. came his
way in 1928.
Captain Eric Wren, whose history of
the 3rd Batt. A.1.F., From Randwick to
Hargicourt, has been paid the honor of
an extra long and appreciative review by
the “Times Literary Supplement,” was a
first-grade tennis-player with excellent
prospects of higher representation when
the gong sounded for the big scrap. He
was one of the originals, going through
Gallipoli and on to France, where, at
Pozieres, he lost his right arm and col-
lected a Croix de Guerre. His last tennis
was in Paris, where he overwhelmed his
French opponent by taking 18 games in a
row. He is a B.Ec., and is on the staff of
the Comptroller of N.S.W. Railway
Stores.
The new Earl Beatty followed his
father’s footsteps for a time—-he was
here as sub-lieutenant with the Atlantic
Fleet in 1924, but retired from the navy
as a lieutenant and took to politics. He
has sat for the Peckham Division of
Camberwell since 1931, and is Parlia-
mentary Private Secretary to the Finan-
cial Secretary to the Admiralty. He is
31 this year.
“El V.” on a diplomatic “watchdog”:
Lord Halifax, who faces the suggestion that
he was sent to last week’s Paris conference
as Cabinet watchdog over Anthony Eden, is
physically well suited to the job. Even with
the tall Flandin present he must easily have
been the longest human there, and one of the
toughest yet gentlest in manner—the Eton and
Christ Church, Oxford, touch. His family ranks
with the Cokes of Norfolk for longevity—his
grandfather was an M.P. in 1826, and his father,
whose life work was the attempted reuniting
of the Roman Catholic and Anglican churches,
lived till over 95. The present viscount went
into Parliament at 29, earned the Viceroyship
of India and the usual peerage within 15
years, after holding several Ministerial offices,
is Chancellor of Oxford University, and last
year became Secretary for War.


ii&ii
mm
X
>s*’:sw
\m
M
to
mmm
m
Wmsmt
Wm
H
ass**
m 'm
mm
>
mmmmmM:.
m
■&m>*
<
m
m&Wy
m
m
\ /
l- f
ass
m:*mm
«
Wi
n
!«■»
X,
rasr
s*?;iss
S 3
M
si
1
m
mm
m
% •
m
SiSSSSS
SSSSSS:
SiS?:;
m
xH
m
;<■
m
i I
Si®
| *-| e;|
mm
O
s*
S&WCtfH
SB!*
?; : : : : : : : :’: : :v:>ss
? 11 1. : .| i'
t>\' '} *' •«>V :••■#: :^ii
Hi
si;;
## it
1
iSS&sas^SS
i. r nflmnl
fSS:::S
smmmmm
m
m
■x.i
m
:xxx<;:;x
i
id A
a
ID
N
ID
m
ifl
your service
Barnet Glass TRUCK and BUS BALLOON TYRES
get you "THEREand BACK" on time
Here, there and everywhere—through traffic-crowded streets—Buses
must be there on time to pick up passengers. Trucks must
maintain their scheduled service That’s why thousands of Truck and
Bus owners keep running on Barnet Glass, because they aie built to
give longer, trouble-free service and thousands more miles.
The deeper cut and broader Caterpillar Traction Tread gtips and
holds under all conditions. In the perfectly balanced casing, the
Barnet Glass formula of rubber impregnating the long staple cotton
cords minimises generation of heal. Tread and casing are protected
by sturdy, buttressed walls, Double Breaker strips absorb road
shocks and double bead wires ensure rim stability.
Fit Barnet Glass all-
round for better service
and dependability.
è
é
AND BUS
BALLOON
TYRES
New Tyres
call for Neiv
BARNET GLASS
" Moulded ”
TUBES
HEAT RESISTING . . . ARMOURED WALLS . . . CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
M.T.73.F.P.35.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ-
Feb., Profit. (15 p.c.). ten oif. Reserves.
1925. . 590,399 487,500 4,242,902
1920.. 627.611 525,000 50,000 4.295,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,947;939
1928.. 638,965 562,500 50,000) , 0 , 0
Provident fund, £25,000.. .. ( 4,949,404
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
(124 P.c.)
1930.. 525,055 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
(7 p.c.)
1931.. 283,019 280,000 4,940,010
(4 p.c.)
1932.. 160,954 160,000 4,940,964
(5 p.c.) To Reserves.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 5,061,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 5,076,016
The board of this Anglo-Australasian
bank is a conservative lot, and always
has been. As the eye sweeps down the
dividend column, it should be remem-
bered that share premiums make the div.
worth only a trifle over half the de-
clared rate on three of the four millions
of share capital, a fact that has been
responsible for some misconception
about banking profits. Also, the
fact that there is visibly £5,076,016 of
reserves assisting share capital needs to
be kept in mind when considering actual
earning power, which appears to have
been very moderate of recent years. The
4 p.c. div. in 1932 was the lowest the
co. paid for over 90 years ; the highest
was 36 p.c., paid during the gold rush
in 1854. In 1893 8 p.c. was distributed,
followed by 6 p.c. and then 5 p.c. to
1898. The rate reached 14 p.c. again in
1907, and 15 p.c. in 1920, and remained
steady till the close of accounts in 1929.
Then slump, which was accompanied
by a growth of fixed deposits and fall
in interest rates and prices, narrowed
margins, while the need to provide for
contingencies increased. Incidentally, the
co. refused to disclose its inner re-
serves to the Royal Commission inquir-
ing into the monetary and banking sys-
tems in Australia.
As old deposit contracts ran out, the
margin between the average advance
and deposit rates widened a trifle, while
the pressure of fixed deposits eased with
the upward surge of trade activity, which
also helped turnover in the exchange
market, owing, mainly, to growth of im-
ports. During the last term a reduction
of £3,031,230 in the co.’s deposits was
accompanied by a contraction of
£1,959,441 in liquids and of £944,829 in
advances:
Liabilities.
Feb., Aug., Aug.,
1934. 1934. 1935.
Notes .. .. £551,434 £280,617 £52,456
Bills, etc. . . 1,045,432 760,429 1,116,666
Deposits . , . . 38,448,449 36,460,479 33,429,249
Liquid assets .. 16,189,614 13,786.512 11,827,071
Advances . . . . 32,552,424 32,417,659 31,472,830
Premises . . . . 377,310 376,386 374,486
Still, when the books closed, advances
were 94.1 p.c. of deposits, as against
91.5 p.c. a year earlier and 85.4 p.c. in
’29. Liquids amounted to 34.1 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public, and the bank
was holding £3 16s. 2d. of outside money
for every pound of its own. According
to the June, 1935, quarterly banking
averages for Australia, 66.6 p.c. of the
deposits was interest-bearing, as against
66.8 p.c. in June, ’34. The drop in the
note issue was on account of the business
in Maoriland, where the Reserve Bank
has taken over the note issue.
Owing to an alteration in the date
of balance, the Aug., 1934, figures cover
only six months. Compared with the
preceding 12 months, last year’s net earn-
ings were £11,476 better at 5.3 p.c. on
capital, or 2.3 p.c. on capital and re-
serves combined. Prospects of further
improvement in earnings during the cur-
rent term are encouraging ; the • recent
lift in interest rates alone (it centres
around the thorny problems of Treasury
bills, credit, London funds and imports)
should mean much to the banks so far
as earnings are concerned.
The co. pays its divs. in sterling,
which makes 5 p.c. worth 6| p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency. At £lO the £l5 shares
paid to £5 (the other £lO is callable only
in the event of liquidation) return 3.1
p.c. The investor who looks for 4.3
p.c. on his money counts on a 7 p.c.
div., worth p.c. in Australian cur-
rency. The net tangible cover is 455, 4d.
per pound of paid capital.
Huddart, Parker. Ltd.
, Dividends —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925. .133,005 30,000 12* p.c.= 93,750 9,255 018,034
1926. .198,008 30,000 16 ~,,120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 18,881 684,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930.. 103,969 30,000 8 „ ~60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1033.. 73,078 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 766,652
For 20 years after the public became
interested in 1911, the ords. averaged
10.4 p.c., sweetened in 1923 with £250,000
of bonus scrip, which lifted paid capital
to its present figure—£l,2so,ooo, of which
£500,000 carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
In addition, and including the reserve for
“contingencies, taxation, repairs, boilers,
renewals, superannuation fund, etc.”
(£423,789), there was £1,190,441 visibly
supporting and assisting capital when the
books last closed. The lot, together with
£286,934 coming to sundry creditors, was
invested in this way:
1924. 1934. 1935.
Ships, etc. . . £1,055,442 £1,366,915 £1,359,467
Cash . . . . 35,127 4,318 13,373
Bool; debts .. 159,817 94,153 62,893
Investments . . 1,288,256 1,287.874 1,297,500
Stores .. . . 54,441 38,882 35,392
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,792,142 £2,768,625
Less liabilities.. 311,052 301,358 -286,934
Net assets .. £2,227,031 £2,490,784 £2,481,691
.Ships, etc., include an unspecified amount
of shares in other cos., mainly in the coal
trade, which used to contribute substan-
tially to the pool, but are now poor
earners. These include the Hebburn and
Metropolitan pits (the latter is on the
southern N. S. Wales field) and a hold-
ing in J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham Collieries. The £1,297,500 of
investments (up £9626 last year) consists
of “Government securities, debentures
and other investments at book value.”
That the co. has been able to invest
£47,500 more than its paid capital out-
side the business is due largely to the
fine returns won during the war and
early post-war periods and to the sale
of surplus tonnage when prices were at
their peak.
The sharp contraction of profits in ’3O
and ’3l was due to the sickness in the
coal trade and slump, which affected
returns from investments as well as cargo
ana passenger earnings, and the div. fell
to 5 p.c., most of which appeared to
come from the co.’s outside investments.
As trade generally recovered, the shipping
business improved, and the div. was lifted
to 7 p.c. in ’34, when the Melbourne
centenary and the Eucharistic Con-
gress there helped to swell earnings. Last
year upward surge in trade activity
continued, but the forays of the seamen,
one in August and the other in Decem-
ber, affected passenger and cargo traffic.
Including £2320 dropped from some-
where into the insurance fund (£314,573),
the net result was £7681 lighter at
£78,059, which was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 6.4 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 7.4, 5.7, 5.5, 5.4, 11.5, 13.7,
17.4 and 18.6 p.c. back to 1927. That
leaves out of the reckoning a reduction
of £9Ol in the contingencies, etc., reserve,
which expanded at the average rate of
£12,118 p.a. for the six years to the end
of 1931, since when it has undergone
little change. The div. was kept at 7
p.c., reserves being drawn upon for £4441
for the purpose.
The market, which notes the fine wad
of outside investments, prices the pound
ords. at 38s. The return at this figure
is 3.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The
well-protected prefs. seldom appear on
’Change. Including the contingency re-
serve, the net tangible cover is £4 17s. 7d.
prefs. and £2 11s. 9d. ords.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
e £ £ £
1926.. 23,898 8 p.c. = 22,079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 „ „ 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8.360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough branch, £12,247. . 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 2*,, „ 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12,207 4 „ ~ 11,050 1,157 19,200
1933.. * 18,283 6 „ „ 16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 ~ „ 19,337 5,6.90 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ ~20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
The business is stepping along like a
thoroughbred. Last year’s net earnings
(£45,868, up £10,362) are the best yet.
They reflect the management’s success in
a change of trading policy begun about
eight years ago, when it was decided to
curtail country trading, which had not
produced the results expected of it, apd
concentrate on city turnover. Slump
interfered with the new plans, and the co.
had to mark time with its programme.
Still, everything was made ready for
expansion of the business as soon as
opportunity offered, and movements in
the figures suggest that the management
has been alive to its problems.
In 1928 stocks figured at £191,586,
gross earnings were £167,208, and ordi-
nary trading exes. £158,848. At the close
of last accounts, stocks figured at
£179,287, the year’s gross earnings were
'£208,454, and trading exes. £141,885.
Thus over the last eight years a net
reduction of £12,299 in stocks has been
accompanied by a growth of £41,246 in
gross earnings (despite the fall in prices)
and a reduction of £16,963 in exes. It
all reflects a live trading policy, includ-
ing a brighter store, better shopping
facilities, good buying (which means the
weeding out of dead lines and livelier
turnover in others) and a tight hold upon
outgoings.
After setting aside £20,701 (up £1955)
for taxation and other contingencies, last
year’s net result was 12.5 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 12.1, 9, 6.6, 4.4,
1.8, 7.1, 3.7 and 3 p.c. back to 1928.
That leaves out of the reckoning a profit
of £13,121 on the sale of the co.’s de-
tached Adelaide-street property. The
div. was kept at 7 p.c.—-money will be
wanted to stock and equip the co.’s new
premises, now going up on adjoining land
bought from the Brisbane Permanent
Building and Banking Co. for £45,000 in
the previous term.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1927. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. £275,993 £276,243 £365,188 £366,288
Liabilities .. 202,412 102,057 40,269 47,494
Freehold . . 127,935 153,940 202,046 236,625
Plant, etc. . . 27,895 38,828 38,779 55,408
Stocks .. 220,046 158.039 168,814 179,287
Book debts, etc. 137,849 39,156 39,678 47,878
Cash and in-
vestments .. 5,247 44,505 33,254 8,026
The year’s net addition to the book value
of freehold was £34,579, to plant £16,629,
to stocks £10,473 and to book debts
£B2OO. To meet the outlay, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £24,628, and £7225 net
was added to the amount coming to out-
siders, of which £26,053 is on overdraft.
The contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£188,297, including stocks) was
£13,180. When the books closed there
was still £50,057 to come on new shares
offered and nearly three times oversub-
scribed a little over a year ago.
The immediate outlook is that trade
generally is approaching the point where
expansion will be less marked than it
was last year. Much, therefore, will
depend upon management, especially
good buying. There is a wide margin
between last year’s net earnings and
distribution. At 295. the fully-paid £1
shares return 4.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis, the 55.-paid
contribs. give an immediate return of
3.8 p.c., or 5.4 p.c. when fully paid.
Including uncalled capital, the cover is
235. 7d. in net tangibles.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. Writ- Re-
Dee., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 205,435 Nil Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 ' Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
Profit.
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nit Nil 16,610 61,040
Since the war-time contracts ran out,
the story of the runowner in far-western
Queensland has been mainly one of lost
markets, drought, falling prices and rigid
costs. Early in 1915 this one took over
some of the properties that fell into the
hands of the Q.N. Bank after the crashes
of the ’nineties. The ords. got their last
div. in 1920, and £525,000 (17s. 6d. a
share) was slashed off their capital four
years ago, reducing it to £75,000 in 2s.
6d. shares. The 250,000 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. were not interfered with, but they,
too, have not had a div. since 1925, and
it is difficult to say when they are likely
to get into the picture again.
The board sums up last year’s opera-
tions in this way:
From a seasonal point of view the year
1935 was one of the most disastrous in
the history of the industry. We practically
had no rain for the 11 months to the end
of June, and then the drought-stricken
central-west and north-west portions of the
State were subjected to very heavy rains
accompanied by bitterly cold winds. There
was no feed in the paddocks, the country
was a mass of bog and the weather
piercingly cold. The result was that sheep
died in thousands —the losses in some cases
being 80 p.c. After writing off 6000
cattle and 8000 sheep for normal deaths,
we had to write off a further 8000 cattle
and 42,000 sheep for deaths caused by
drought and the effects of the June rain,
making the total deaths 14,000 cattle and
50,000 sheep, or 14 p.c. and 44 p.c.
respectively of our stock. The branding
was much lower, the lambing practically
nil, and the wool clip and sales of stock
were also reduced —all brought about by
the adverse season.
After allowing for loss of stock, etc.,
sales were £13,312 lighter;
1925. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Sales, etc. .. £187,938 £110,826 £97,480 £84.168
Expenses . . 146,073 95,154 84,607 100,771
Depredation . . 22,413 15,317 12,025 16,610
Exes, were up £16,164, and an extra
£4585 was struck off for depreciation,
making the loss for the year £33,213.
That raised the deficit on shareholders’
account to £61,040, leaving only £14,040
of the ord. capital intact.
The extent to which the co. has had
to go into debt to cover drought and
other expenditure, etc., is seen in the
next table:
1925. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . £650,000 £850,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities .. 135,094 241,390 223,646 231,130
Freeholds .. 68,605 68,774 68,774 68,774
Leaseholds .. 325,524 237,070 177,166 154,857
Plant, etc. . . 85,285 70,780 65,802 60,569
Livestock . . 495,513 231,391 207,433 198.648
Wool.. ~ 34,490 5,830 204 10,338
Debtors, cash, etc. 8,950 2,027 1,441 1,904
When the books closed the overdraft
stood at £217,312, up £7120, despite the
sale of property valued at £25,500. The
reduction in the book value of leaseholds
was £22,309, plant £5233 and livestock
£8785. Owing to the allowance for de-
preciation, the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids increased by only
£5672, making it £20,240, which suggests
that there may have been a small profit
on the sale of property. The intention is
to sell more property and reduce the
overdraft.
As for the current year, a good season
is in prospect, wool prices have strength-
ened, and the chilled-beef trade is going
along satisfactorily, but last year’s stock
losses will affect earnings. The market
prices the pound prefs. at 4s. 6d. or
thereabouts.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ SL & £,
1925.. 38,329 61 p.c. = 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £86,310 . . . . . . 123,558
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 71 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,104 .. 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,445
Loss.
1929.. 105,342 Nil 149,103
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500 .. 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil 12,168
Profit.
1931.. 64,402 5 p.c. = 31,815 32,587 44,755
1932.. 283 Nil 283 45,038
1933.. 79,995 5 p.c. = 31,815 48,180 93,218
1934.. 90,953 5J „ „ 34,997 55,956 149,174
1935.. 75,670 54 „ „ 34,997 40,673 189,847
The contraction of £15,283 in last year’s
net earnings is significant. The co. is one
of the largest of Maoriland’s freezers,
and it operates in one of the best lamb-
and mutton-producing centres in the
world. Last year the Dominion’s ex-
ports of frozen lamb increased by 0.8
p.c. in quantity and by 3.6 p.c. in value,
while its shipments of mutton, which
were 13.7 p.c. heavier, returned an extra
15.2 p.c. in local currency. Yet, after
providing an unspecified amount for con-
tingencies, the co.’s gross earnings
(£117,417) fell away by £14,807. Exes.
(£41,747) were up £476, leaving the net
result £15,283 lighter at 11.8 p.c. on
capital, which was the second-best show-
ing in the last 15 years. The div. was
kept at p.c., the immediate aim being
to strengthen the support for capital.
The co. buys in the crowded Canter-
bury (M.L.) markets and sells at Smith-
field (Eng.), which means that earnings
are very vulnerable to price fluctuation,
owing to the time factor, as the losses
in ’29 and ’3O illustrate. During the first
eight months of 1935, Maoriland’s meat
export price-index dropped over 9 p.c.,
but the average for the year was 1576 as
against 1518 for 1934 (1909-13 = 1000).
The most serious aspect of the position
appears to be the increasing tendency of
Maoriland growers to consign direct to
the British market. This development,
which is fraught with dangers to both
growers and freezers, is receiving atten-
tion from the Meat Board, which re-
cently said: “If the Meat Board permits
New Zealand meat-exporting concerns to
be put out of business by large overseas
concerns, it follows that independent
sellers of New Zealand meat in Smithfield
and other parts of Britain will also be
put out of business, as their only source
of supply is New Zealand independent ex-
porters. The whole of the New Zealand
meat trade would then be in the hands
of a few big meat concerns that now
largely control the South American and
Australian supplies. Under these con-
ditions an open door to the British
market would be of no value to the
New, Zealand farmer, as he would have
no selling agent in Britain other than the
big concerns, who would give him a price
fixed from time to time among them
selves. The control of the New Zealand
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE OF ALBERT LEOPOLD WHITF
CHARLES HENRY WHITE, last heard o
in Tamworth, New South Wales, or his next
of-kin, or anyone knowing their present where
abouts is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland,
New Zealand.
EDWARDS or DUNN— WILL anyone know-
ing the whereabouts of THEODOSIA
EDWARDS, daughter of Amelia and Samuel
Albert Edwards, formerly of Prahran, and who
was later adopted by Herbert John and Lilian
Catherine Dunn, formerly of West Melbourne,
please communicate with the EQUITY TRUS-
TEES Co., 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne?
Personal and Missing Friends.
TORAN. —Information is sought concerning
he whereabouts of DENIS HORAN, son of
Ceeran Horan, last heard of in North Bruns-
wick, Victoria, in 1914. Would any person
mowing his whereabouts please communicate
with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney?
ROBERT CHARLES PRIGG and FRED-
ERICK SAMUEL PRIGG, sons of the late
Mary Prigg, will hear of something to their
advantage if they will communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
TOOMBS.—MRS. CATHERINE TOOMBS
(nee Greer), widow of Albert Edward George
Toombs, or anyone knowing of her where-
abouts, is requested to write the PUBLIC
CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND, Edward
Street, Brisbane.
m
is .
“V-8 Trucks for Hard, Fast Jobs”
AFTER operating two V-8 Trucks for 12 months on
heavy stone haulage during most of which time
they worked 24 hours a day, their owner writes: I
realise that when a fast or hard job is to be done. Ford
V-B's can be relied upon to see it through." Important
features are; V-8 cylinder Truck-type engine. Full-
floating rear axle. Straddle mounted pinion. Truck-type
clutch. Heavy-duty transmission. Safety Glass wind-
screen. Ask your Ford dealer to arrange an "on-the-job
test. Easy and convenient purchase terms are available.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-8 TRUCKS
See Y our Nearest Ford Dealer
F64.10.C
Cheapest and most
efficient form of
Roofing 1
*
; r*
Specify 26 gauge "Red Orb" for your
roof, especially rigid, first class, gal-
vanized, corrugated iron manufactured
at Lysaght’s Newcastle Works. New
South Wales.)
LYSACHTE GALVANIZES IKON
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) LTD.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide —' Fremantle j j
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
AUSTRALIAN MOTORISTS PETROL
COMPANY LIMITED
(A Company to be Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales).
NOMINAL CAPITAL £300,000
191,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are now offered for public
subscription, payable 5/- on application and 5/- on allot-
ment, balance in calls of 5/- at intervals of not less than
one month £191,500
100.000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are to be held in reserve for
future issue £lOO,OOO
8,500 Deferred Shares of £1 each have been applied for, and are
to be paid for in cash £8,500
300.000 £300,000
The Ordinary Shares carry (after suitable provision for reserve has been
made) a preferential right in each year to a dividend up to 7 per cent, (non-
cumulative) out of the profits for that year, and after the deferred shares
have also received a dividend up to 7 per cent., the remaining profits in any
year are divisible as follows:
75 per cent, to Ordinary Shareholders.
25 per cent, to Deferred Shareholders.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS.
The Hon. J. C. WATSON, Company Director, Sydney.
The Hon. J. M. DUNNINGHAM, M.L.A., Company Director, Sydney.
GEO, HARPER, Esq., Merchant, Sydney.
EDMUND S. PAUL, Esq., Managing Director for Australia and New Zealand
of Schweppes, Ltd., and Chairman of Directors of the Australia*
Provincial Assurance Association, Ltd., Sydney.
C. D. SAXTON, Esq., Director of A. C. Saxton and Sons, Ltd., Timber
Merchants, Sydney.
W. J. SMITH, Esq., Managing Director of Australian Glass Manufacturers
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. R. TEWKSBURY, Esq., Vice-Chairman of Yellow Cabs of Australia, Ltd.,
and Managing Director for N.S.W, of Yellow Express Carriers, Ltd.,
Sydney.
A. W. O’CALLAGHAN, Esq., Director of Associated Motorists Petrol Co.,
Ltd. (of New Zealand), Hawera, N.Z.
GEO. W. HUTCHISON, Esq., C.M.G., Public Accountant, and Secretary of
Automobile Association of Auckland, N.Z.
SOLICITORS.
MESSRS. ABBOTT, TOUT, CREER
and WILKINSON,
N.R.M.A. House,
3 Spring Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUDITORS.
MESSRS. HOLT AND THOMPSON,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
23 Macquarie Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
BANKERS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Head Office, Sydney.
INTERIM SECRETARY.
J. THOMPSON, F.C.A. (Aust.),
F.A.1.5.,
23 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF COMPANY.
The objects for which the Company is to be formed are as set forth in the Memorandum of Association, and are particularly to carry
on in Australia the trade of importing and marketing petrol, oils, and allied products.
A similar company is operating successfully in New Zealand. Last year its net profit was £34,445/6/1 on a paid-up capital of
£131,268/17/-. Shares in that company are quoted on the market in New Zealand at a premium.
Seven of the Directors of the New Zealand Company have subscribed for a substantial parcel of shares in the Australian Company.
NO SHARES ARE ALLOTTABLE TO PROMOTERS OR OTHERS FOR ANY CONSIDERATION OTHER THAN CASH.
Copies of Prospectus obtainable from the Interim Secretary, L. J. THOMPSON, F.C.A. (Aust.), F.A.1.5., 23 Macquarie Place, Sydney.


Poor little man! He
MISSES MOTHER
POOR little man! His father is dead
and left not a penn’orth of assurance.
His mother goes out to work each
day, and has to leave him in a day nursery.
Poor little man!
How different it might have been! If the young
husband had become a member of the A.M.P. on
his marriage, and had invested about four shillings
(4/-) a week in an A.M.P. whole-life Policy, his
widow would have received £3OO on his death.
Not a fortune, to be sure, but a “very present help
in time of trouble.”
What about it, young husband and young wife? Don’t
let this tragedy happen to you! Send for an A.M.P.
adviser straight away, and secure ADEQUATE assur-
ance. Write to-day. The A.M.P. is the largest mutual
life office in the Empire, with assets of £100,000,000.
It is as strong as the Nation. Let it be your protection.
Write to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A, A. W. SNEDDON. F.I.A,
Actuar y* General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 81356.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
•Invincible” .
since
mo.
INVINCIBLE
MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES.
Petrol—Kerosene—Diesel,
18 Sizes: 3 to 100 h.p.
Write for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS,
S 3 Nth. George St„ Sydney
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR"
C ONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-13 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
meat market would then be as effectu-
ally in the hands of a few large meat
concerns as it would be if they owned
all the works in New Zealand.” Since the
declared aim of the new Government is
to protect local industry, the probabilities
are that steps will be taken to regulate
direct consignments by growers.
Here is the skeleton of the co. s busi-
ness as balance-sheet figures leveal it.
Paid capital. . £636,310
Debentures •.. 150,000 150,000 90,000 150,000
Other liabilities 801,954 498,850 576,034 456,778
Pr™ and
Book debts,
investments.
etc 720,015 456,014 669,468 639,169
Pukeuri deben-
tures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Whether the addition of £60,000 to
the debenture debt (it was reduced by a
like amount in the previous term) was
due to an alteration in the method of
presenting the figures is not plain from
the published accounts. Other liabilities,
down £119,256, include an unspecified
amount for taxation and contingencies,
Including £20,000 from reserves, £8285
more was written off than was spent on
plant, to which extensive additions were
made. More or less liquids were drawn
upon for £30,299 net. Including the
Pukeuri debentures, the more or less
liquid surplus (£132,391) was £28,957
stronger than at the previous balance.
Despite the recent improvement in the
co ; s position and the wide margin
between earnings and distributions, the
market, doubtful of the future, prices
the pound shares at 20s. 6d. The return
at this figure is 5.3 p.C. On a 5.5 p.C. div,
basis. Tbe visible cover i§ 255 . U± in
net tangibles.
N. w
uccioemai
At ann u a l meeting in Sydney last
the chairman said that a year ago
shareholders were told that the main
shaft was t 0 be deepened a further 200 ft.
to enable the ore-body at the 940 ft. and
1040 ft. levels to be developed. Only
the 940 ft. level had been opened up so
far; delay was due to (1) lateness in
completion of the main power plant, and
therefore in the supply of compressed
air, and (2) lack of experienced miners.
This precluded the breaking of an esti-
mated 9000 tons of ore monthly. So it
was decided to mill not more than 7500
tons a month ; later the figure was re-
duced to 5000 tons, to be increased as
development proceeded. The big drop
in tonnage milled has, of course, bumped
up costs.
During the three months since the close
of accounts, owing to lack of working
faces, ore below average grade had to be
broken to keep up to the demands of the
mill. It is claimed that this position will
be remedied as timbering and filling on
Nos. 7 and 8 levels advance, and that,
when the work is complete, average-
grade ore should be drawn. During the
three months mentioned no ore was
broken from Bowman’s lode or Row-
land’s stope, both of which carry higher-
than-average values. A crosscut at the
940 ft. level has shown the ore-body to
be wider than higher up, samples averag-
ing 12.54dwt. over 75ft. Also, the drill
has proved the continuation of the lode,
carrying “good values,” at 136 ft. below
the 940 ft. level.
At the end of February ore reserves
were figured at 362,500 tons, of which
261,500 tons was positive ore, averaging
B.4dwt., and 101,000 tons probable ore.
For the next 12 months development is
not expected to run away with more than
2s. 6d. per ton of ore treated ; and no
further substantial expenditure on plant
is contemplated at the moment.
The co.’s chief problem is to mine
sufficient ore to enable the mill to work
to capacity or thereabouts. Whether it
can do this without altering the present
plan of underground development re-
mains to be seen.
Mandated Alluvials, formed in Syd-
ney in June, 1935, to take options over
eight claims in various parts of New
Guinea, has decided to exercise the one
over the Moresby King property, 16£
miles from Port Moresby by good road.
The area comprises two leases, totalling
50 acres, and application has been made
for another 50 acres adjoining. The
country consists largely of slates and*
breccia, the auriferous ore-body being a
copper-and-iron-stained gossanous for-
mation, traced for about 30 chains in
length, and which is up to five chains
wide in places. About 18 years ago some
high-grade copper ore was gouged from
five short adits and several shallow shafts.
The most important developments occur
in No. 3 adit, where the extent of the
lenses suggests about 30,000 tons of ore
per 100 ft. of lift. Here 196 ft. of driving
and crosscutting has been done, and 29
samples have averaged 16dwt. 22gr. gold
and 1.5 p.c. copper. The same ore-body
has been exposed in No. 1 adit, 66ft.
lower and 180 ft. to the north. It is plain,
therefore, that the co. has a property
worth testing, though a lot more work
needs to be done before any reliable idea
can be had as to the real nature, extent
and value of the deposit.
* * * *
Operating results at Sons of Gwalia
(W.A.) compare as follows over the last
four months:
Nov. Bee. Jan. Feb.
Ore treated, tons 10,328 11.918 11,918 11,388
Fine gold, oz. . . 3,669 3,925 4.270* 3,603
Working costs . . £13,750 £15,168 £16,201 £14,463
Development ex-
penditure . . 2,274 2,746 2,616 2,219
Capital expendi-
ture . . . . 153 2,637 196 296
including 4700 z. proceeds accumulated slag.
The February recovery was equal to an
average of 6.32dwt. The head value of
the ore is not stated, but the average for
the mine is put at 305., with gold at 85s.
an ounce. On this basis the co. is re-
covering 90 p.c., or a bit more, of the
metal. The amount realised from the
sale of bullion is not stated either. At,
say, £8 12s. an ounce February’s re-
covery would be worth £30,986. } After
deducting working costs and develop-
ment and capital expenditure, a profit of
£14,008 remained, equal to £168,000-odd
per annum, or over 10s. per fully-paid
10s. share. The capacity of the plant is
12,000 tons a month, and there is ap-
proximately five years’ feed for the mill
in sight, with good prospects of more
pay-ore being developed.
* * * *
Lancefield board reports that (1) there
are as many working faces as previously,
and sufficient to supply the mill; (2)
No. 11 level drive and the winze
to No. 12 level, as well as the
borehole 350 ft. below the No. 11 level,
are all exposing average-grade ore, with
no indications of diminishing values; (3)
the length of the payable ore-shoot at
Nos. 9 and 10 levels has been proved to
be 200 ft. longer than at No. 5 level and
100 ft. longer than at No. 7 level; (4) the
length of the shoot at No. 11 level has not
yet been proved, but the face is still in
ore; (5) no new shaft is required for
ventilation, the present system being quite
satisfactory ; (6) the mill will not close
down for want of developed ore in the
mine.
* * * *
American Smelting and Refining Corp.
and others, said to include Lord Rother-
mere, have exercised their option over
the Big Bell goldmine on the Murchison
field (W.A.). The State Government has
agreed, subject to Parliamentary approval,
to build a 22-mile railway from Cue to
the property. The deal marks the first
introduction of capital from the U.S.A.
into goldmining in Westralia. About
£400,000 is to be spent on plant and
equipment, and not less than 25,000 tons
ore is to be treated monthly. The history
of the mine, which is a big low-grade
proposition, dates back to 1904, when
it was known as Baton’s Reward
lease. Later, as the Big Bell, it
was worked from time to time by pros-
pectors, who barely paid their way. Only
the enhanced price of gold makes it pos-
sible to work the property, even on a big
scale, at a profit. The new owners reckon
on a 4dwt.-per-ton extraction or there-
abouts.
* * * *
Good values continue to be encoun-
tered by Ora Banda Amalgamated at
Grant’s Patch (W.A.). But last month
the co. experienced further trouble in
handling oxidised ore in the filtration
portion of its treatment plant—it is not
the only new plant in Westralia that has
given trouble.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Aim'.
» * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * ' *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydnev.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.


Do you smoke
in your bath ?
r
=l=l
r T
-then its
TIME FOR A
%■#
♦
Special Mild
Medium, or Full
CORK TIPPED
ë
AND PLAIN
787-2-6


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hellas”: Bill had managed
to cadge a couple of eggs each
day from the barmaid for his
sick tent mate. The boss be-
came suspicious, and one morn-
ing he strolled into the bar just as Bill was
stowing a couple of barnyard pearls into
his hat. Bung greeted Bill heartily
and gave him a friendly slap on the
noddle! Poor Bill set off for home
without a word. His mate swooned as
he entered the tent. The disgusted Bill
explained to the barmaid next day: “The
stupid cow thought my adjectival brains
were cornin’ out!”
* * * *
“J.C.”: The more I read in the dailies
of these tremendous fights that fish put
up before they are caught—of how
Brown took Ihr. 25min. to land a perch
41b. weight or the marvellous tussle
Jones had spread over an hour and a
half before getting his 171 b. jewy aboard
—the more I am sadly convinced
what a poor, tractable lot of fish I must
have encountered in my 60 years or so
with rod and line. Admittedly, I’ve
yanked in jewfish up to 601 b., stingrays
a yard across the flaps, sharks and count-
less other finny denizens, but they’ve all
given up the ghost after a lousy quarter
of an hour, even the biggest of them.
It’s just my bad luck, I suppose, that
there wasn’t a voracious press hound
within smelling distance when I did it.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: One would scarcely regard
grasshoppers as good performers in
water, .but a Queensland species, prob-
ably under stress of pursuit by birds
and other enemies, has become a really
good swimmer and diver. A slim, active
chap, bright green in complexion, it lives
about creeks and lagoons, close to the
edge. When disturbed it dives in and
grabs any convenient submerged twig
or water plant. If one walks about in
view, the creature can stay under for
some minutes. Then it comes quietly
up under a lily leaf or other convenient
shelter, gets a fresh air supply and dives
again. Sit motionless in the shade, and
it will pop up after a few seconds, swim
briskly ashore and resume feeding.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: In coastal S.Q. we re-
gard the frigate birds as much better
weather-predicfers than any Meteorologi-
cal Bureau. When those slim bodies,
poised between the wide span of grace-
ful jet-black wings, float effortlessly
above the beaches, it is safe betting that,
within four days at most, we shall get a
dose of dirty weather, A few days ago
a squadron of six of each sex drifted up
from southward in the hot, calm after-
noon, and spent a while robbing the
terns of their spoils, descending on them
at dizzy speed, and gracefully collecting
the dropped fish in mid-air. Last night
the clouds banked up in dark masses, a
wild flurry of wet, roaring wind, burst
out of the south-west, and slewed east-
ward to bring the breakers booming in
before heavy rain squalls. To-day it is
blowing half a gale, and the black cor-
sairs are pirating maybe a thousand miles
northward.
“Kali”: Professional fishermen around
Sydney ignore the moon’s position as a
weather guide (B. 12/2/’36). So long as
the sea birds remain at home on the
rocky cliffs at North Head the fishermen
will go to sea. When the gulls and the
gannets leave North Head and take up
residence at South Head, a mile away,
the fishers are careful not to go far out
beyond the Heads. But when the shags
also leave for South Head the profes-
sionals pack up and attend to their moor-
ing chains. They claim the birds haven’t
made a mistake in 30 years.
* * * *
“Flight”: City ornithologists, who
seem to be swayed by fashion, are featur-
ing the jabiroo, that storklike monstrosity
which looks like a cross between a peli-
can and a brolga. Some of them main-
tain that J. is a solitary bird ; others
"All y've goiter do is to fix that clip in ’ees nose an' 'e'll foiler y' like a
lamb.”
reckon he is voiceless, being unique
in that he’s the only thing in feathers
without the ability to make a noise.
I’ve flushed more than one of those pie-
bald freaks from a swamp —my biggest
bag was six. On more than one occa-
sion I’ve heard them give voice—that is,
if a hoarse grunt, almost resembling the
sharp bark of a pelican, can be called a
voice.
* * * *
“Jobber”: At Ilford (N.S.W.) a month
or two ago I saw a team of 16 bullocks
taking a load of wool from Warran-
gunya station to Clandulla. I asked the
manager why he didn’t use a motor-
truck in this age of petrol. He replied
that a truck cost the better part of 1000
quid, and he had little work for one
apart from wool-carting. What was the
sense of keeping 1000 quid idle in a shed
for the better part of the year when
these bullocks earned more than their
tucker all the year round? He showed
me a paddock from which the bullocks
had snigged tremendous logs, and then
ploughed it. It’s good to know that old
Punch and Pilot are still holding their
own.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Migratory movements
among certain birds seem to be com-
mencing unusually early in coastal S.Q.
this year. Welcome swallows are
assembling, and several flights have
already left, en route to N.Q., where they
spend the late autumn and winter. Tree
martens are joining flocks, and setting
up the excited sunrise twitterings which
herald early departure —they go to New
Guinea. They are a month ahead of
their usual sailing time. Swifts seem
to have already set out on their long
flight to Manchuria and Siberia, but
they always leave before the swallows.
So have the stints, the little active brown-
backed searchers of the summer shores.
Considering the swift, strong flight of
swallows, it is strange that they do not
include Maoriland in their range. Occa-
sional tree martens visit there, but not
the Welcome species.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: Fly-blown trees (B.
5/2/’36) are a commonplace on the
Lower Murray (N.S.W.). There I had
a pile of cut dry box for river steamers,
and even inside this standing timber it
was a daily occurrence for some cutter
to come across the decomposed fly-
troubled remains of frogs, goannas,
possums and rabbits. But my rarest find
in a tree-trunk was portion of a sheep.
It was probably put there by a passing
whaler after he had filled his tucker-bags
with the more delicate parts of the stolen
jumbuck.
* * * *
“Luke the Liar”; I see some Queens-
land bloke has been writing to the papers
complaining because half-bred Alsatian
dingoes has killed 124 sheep in a month
out his way. If he’d been with me select-
ing in the Speewa Scrub 50 years ago he
would have had something to talk about.
When I get out to the property with
horses, tents and gear I find it’s covered
with 200 ft. blackbutt, 6ft. thick. After
wondering how long it’ll take to clear
enough land for a humpy I start to
fry a few chops, it being near sundown.
I’m puzzled by the howling in the scrub
all round. I’m used to dingoes, too, but
this sounds like all the. crooners in the
Benighted States, and them with ampli-
fiers attached. As darkness come on I
see rings of them sitting round the fire.
Crooners? No, blast yer, dingoes! As
I’m rising to get my rifle the mob make
a break for me, but by some miracle I
get to a tree and shin up it. The boss
dog sends off some messengers, and pres-
ently about a thousand more come in.
Telling ’em off in squads the boss sets ’em
digging up my tree. They take five-
minute shifts, the workers going down to
the creek for a dip and a spot. Work-
ing this way it isn’t long before they get
the old tree on the topple, and over she
goes. By this time I have the old brains
brushed, and as the tree falls I transfer
to another. The boss dog says a few
swears and sets a new fatigue party dig-
ging on this one, while more dogs is
coming in from all round. To get down
to cold facts, by morning, when they draw
off for a sleep, the dogs has dropped
about 20 trees. When I come down I
see that the problem of clearing a space
for my hut is solved. But I’ve had
enough. The dogs has eaten all my
tucker, both horses and torn what they
couldn’t eat of the gear to bits. I for-
feit the holding there and then, and
join the Salvation Army in the first town
I come across.
* * * *
“Sandow”: I’ll accept “T.H.’s” chal-
lenge (B. 29/1 /’36) and, ounce for ounce
and inch for inch, I’ll back a purinthy
against his crocodile for feats of strength.
Brain power doesn’t enter into it, as
“T.H.’s” saurian didn’t have any brain
to exercise. A croc.’s spinal cord stops
short, just like the ending of your little
finger, and there is no brain on the end
of it. The purinthy has no brains
either. He’s got muscle, though, and the
desire to shift things when the fit takes
him. The croc, has it all over my fellow
for weight and size, as an outsize in the
purinthy line wouldn’t go more than
about Bft. Even so, my bloke has the
greater -muscle. I’ve seen rocks fully a
ton weight which have been shifted from
the mouths of their burrows. “T.H.’s’
bullock couldn’t have gone more than
half a ton, and if the croc, did have to
drag it up the bank it is possible that
the load was lightened first.
* * * *
“Bungle”: “Quack’s” duck (B.
5/2/’36) which turned on the tap occa-
sions me no surprise. I’d long ago
nominated old webfoot as the brains of
the farmyard. Had an old drake, years
ago, which, given food too hot, never
failed to rush off to the trough and en-
thusiastically sluice its bill in the cool
water, and then bring a bibful back to
splash over the tucker.
* * * *
“Core”: I nominate the plain turkey
as having the strongest heart of all
animals in the bush. I’ve shot one
through the heart (found it out when
cleaning him), and before toppling that
bird flew half a mile or more. I’ve
taken the heart clean out of a shot bird
and watched it. It beat on a stone for
half an hour, going strong; with
gradually lessening twitches it was an
hour and a half before it gave up the
ghost. Next to the plain turkey I’d place
the heart of the wallaroo.
* * * *
“Pine River”: Three men fishing along
the Burnett River (Q.) landed what
looked like a monster eel. Feeling
peckish, they fried and ate half of it in
flickering lantern light. The uncooked
remainder was taken home by
one of the party, and when he
brought it out under electric
light he nearly dropped —what
they had eaten was a venomous
black water-snake. They suf-
fered no ill-effects, which sup-
ports the contention that the
flesh of any venomous reptile
isn’t harmful. Andre Simon,
president of the Wine and Food
Society of Britain, cherishes the menu of
a dinner served in 1552 in honor of Mary
Queen of Scots. On the menu were
vipers and adders, both highly venomous.
# * * *
“Marsh”: Never saw a trapdoor spider
at it, but I’ve lost a few piastres backing
losers in bouts down in the Jordan Valley
between scorpions and “Jack Johnsons,”
the latter a species of hideous-looking
tarantula. During those intervals when
Turks and flies permitted, trainer-owners
would bring out their pets from tobacco-
tins or matchboxes in which they’d been
kept on a diet of air—hunger made them
savage. With bets made, a mob of appre-
ciative troopers would crowd round the
petrol-tin arena, urging on their elect.
No “points” decision for those insects—
there was always a killer, and it was not
always the tarantula.
* * * *
“Packbag”: It is something more than
spear grass that holds the rabbit in check
north of Boulia (B. 5/2/”36). Most of
the country between the Murray and
the Darling rivers would be desert
if it weren’t for this grass and mallee,
and it’s full of rabbits. Admittedly bunny
doesn’t thrive in long spear grass, and
I’ve seen the seed at times kill them. Not
long ago I overlanded with sheep from
Queensland to Euston, when the whole
route was a waving crop of this grass,
and we had a job to get through. But
all the way the rodents were in thou-
sands, resulting, despite the spear grass,
in a plague of them the following year
which laid waste the whole of that
country.
* * * *
“Oont”: How many of those fellows
who write about riding camels know that
there isn’t a real riding camel in Aus-
tralia? There may be an odd one in a
zoo ; there are none out bush doing the
work for which they were intended. The
thing used as a saddle camel is a light
draught. He is never packed, nor is he
ever given anything heavy to carry. At
that he won’t last longer than about
eight years, after which he loses his
elasticity and becomes a drudge. The
finest saddle camel I ever saw, and he
was nearing his limit of service then,
was owned by Tom Weinike, of the
Frew, at the time of the big wolfram
camp there. Once mounted, that fellow
swept along, swaying with the ease of a
rubber-tyred rocking-chair and shooting
streams of dust and eddies of air behind
him; and I was prepared to put my
money on Tom’s word that he and the
camel could lay 150 miles behind them
in 24 hours.
BRUMBIES.
By broken, vine-clad gullies where mountain-
ash and gum
Rear stately trunks and rippling crests,
Through rank ferns reaching to their chests,
The mountain brumbies come,
Hard-hoofed, sure-footed, filing along their
rocky track
With nervous nostrils blowing,
Rough manes and long tails flowing.
Ears twitching fore and back.
They cannot see me crouching here. The
wind is not their way.
And how I love to see them pass
So silently through scrub and grass,
Each chestnut, black and bay.
No rope have I for choking them, nor brand
to sear their hides;
No rifle for their maiming,
No bridle for their taming,
Nor spurs to score their sides.
I’ve hunted brumbies often in the far-off fading
years,
When we rode with blood a-tingle
Down the slopes of rock and shingle,
Through the fern and grass-tree spears,
With brushwood crashing underfoot through
oak and “whipstick pine,”
To plunge through hop-bush spangled
With clematis and tangled
With scrub and clutching vine.
How we raced to stop them breaking past the
hidden trap-yard “wing,”
With the leading stallion flying,
And whip and rowel plying.
And mad hooves thundering!
Though we rode our best to head them, for
victory is sweet,
In the clamor of the battle
I have cheered to see them rattle
Round the “wing” to our defeat.
But the joys of brumby-running are
memories fading fast
From the scrubs and mountain
ranges
With Time’s remorseless changes,
And the brumbies’ day is past . . .
Just this little mob from somewhere,
driven here by inland drought,
And every day I come to see
Them pass to water silently—
And ever they appear to me
A pageant fading out.
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


‘‘Dominie Dix”: The spiritual well-
being of our small Westralian town had
been handed over to a very serious, very
earnest young plucker of brands from
the burning. On visiting the school he
subjected the youngsters to a search-
ing cross-examination as to their de-
nominational standing. One bright
youngster of eight insisting that he was
“Church of England one Sunday and
Methodist next,” the parson rather
testily replied “You can’t do that; you
must have some particular church.” The
kid piped up: “Why can’t I? Ain’t I a
half-caste?”
* * * *
“SOP.”: It should be as plain as “Day-
light” (B. 19/2/’36) that the green and
purple tints in the discarded bottles
were due respectively to the condition of
the gills and the language of the fellow
who discovered that they were empty.
“Warrigal”: If “Daylight” took his
bottles inside and gave them a bath he
would find his prismatic effects gone.
The exposed marines collect a thick coat-
ing of dust, which deflects the sun’s rays,
in the same fashion as rainbows and
moon-haloes, not to mention dust-
storms. Try it on the sand by the sea
and, in the complete absence of dust,
nothing happens. A better method of
securing unique color effects is to
empty the bottles before exposing them,
and then observe from a shady spot.
* * * *
“Duck Mole”: “Splash,” a platypus
kept by R. Eadie, of Healesville (Vic.),
has just scored a world’s record by com-
pleting his third year in captivity. Not
the least curious thing about the little
chap is that he has lost all the fear of
humans so characteristic of his timid and
wary race. He stays in his swimming-
tank all day to receive visitors, whereas
most of his contemporaries who have
figured in public for a short time have
retired to their innermost burrows at the
first sign of a stranger. “Splash” was five
months old when caught, so he had
plenty of time to develop his natural
instincts. Feeding him is a problem,
his daily menu running to a pound of
fresh worms and a couple of hen’s eggs.
* * * *
“Bungle”: Never saw an emu use the
boot on a bloke (B. 19/2/’36), but he’s a
dabster at it with dogs. Had a pack of
nondescript canines for hunting out Wal-
gett (N.S.W.) way, and a chase after a
mob of emus usually resulted in some
casualties. We also had sport in plenty
among wild pigs, foxes,
kangaroos and goannas,
and, curiously enough,
the old go. usually
drew more blood than
the rest of the game put
together. During years
of hunting I saw only
one dog hugged, and
he was an inquisitive
little foxy that should
have known better than
to dive for the throat
of an “old man red,”
flat on his back. When
a clout with a whip-handle induced the
marsupial to let up, that pup went round
and round in circles, wailing like a
banshee.
* * * $
“Maunganui”: Small islands (B.
19/2/’36) are not the only places “re-
garded as ships.” When visiting warships,
such as the Hood and the Renown, berth
at Auckland (M.L.), with their bows
almost touching the C.P.0., a large por-
tion of wharf, including the Harbor
Board’s immense goods-sheds, is invari-
ably declared for the moment part of
the ship. This means that the men nomi-
nally on duty are permitted to descend
to the wharf, partake of refreshments
provided by local societies, sing and
dance, all of which is impossible if the
ship is anchored in midstream. I
saw a dance suddenly interrupted one
evening by the Renown’s megaphone,
which called 40 men up the gangway,
leaving as many damsels disconsolate on
the temporary “ship.”
* * * *
“Bufo”: A “bull sea-lion” which
Zane Grey hooked off Montague Island
“ 'Ow d ’ ’ee like lioin' next door t' graveyard , Zacky?"
“Best neighbors I ever ’ ad — don't borrow nothin '.”
was really an Australian sea-bear, a
cheerful, friendly chap, much given to
snatching fish off trail-lines. Lots of
them have been hooked by barracouta
fishermen, to the disgust of both.
Colonies are to be seen on many off-
shore rocky islets, from Westernport
right up to the Solitaries. Years ago an
old chap near Welshpool (Vic.) had a
half-grown one as a pet. It was a most
attractive animal, with a passion for hav-
ing its head stroked and its ears gently
scratched, exactly like a good-natured
dog, and would come when called.
* * * *
“Arachne”; “Williami’s” hornet (B.
5/2/’36) that bit the dust in its scrap
with the trapdoor spider was stiff—in
every stoush I’ve refereed the hornet has
come out an easy victor. But not so
against the red-back. That deadly fellow
builds in dark and ugly places, and the
hornet can’t get in his dart and dash as
he can when given a more open go.
Perhaps there is some toxic quality in
the red-back’s web which has a numbing
effect on the attacker—with other webs
the hornet just stalks through, wiping
away clinging strands. With the red-
back’s stuff, though, he seems to lose his
jaunty style. But superior science brings
“ Didn't I tell yer that racin' spirit was no good in tractors!"
down the winged fellow ; as soon as he
becomes slightly bogged in the web the
spider does a spin—flashing round in
circles ; then with one hind leg held high,
and with her spinnerets going full lick,
she wraps the hornet in swathings of web
from which he can’t disentangle himself.
After he is mummified like that the rest
is easy.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: It’s comforting to know
that the tuatara reaches pension age at
about the double century (B. 19/2/’36),
but this interesting survival is in danger
of becoming extinct. Found in burrows
that he shares amicably with sea birds, the
little fellow is easy prey for predatory
animals. A peculiarity of the lizard is
that the eggs are laid on the same day of
the same month yearly, and unless some-
thing extraordinary has happened to the
burrow the same egg depository is always
used.
“The 0.D.”: That possum-tail death
grip (B. 26/2/’36) is no fiercer than that
of a parrot’s beak. A ring-neck, struck
by a pea-rifle bullet on a channel near
Mildura (Vic.), clutched a twig of pepper-
tree in its beak as it died. I passed that
place regularly for nearly five years, and
when last I did only the beak itself was
left, still firmly fixed to the tree.
* * * *
“Corvus”: Crows with eccentric hous-
ing habits (B. 19/2/’36)? On a station
near Winton (W.Q.), the homestead
windmill was turned off for a few days.
Kelly built a nest on a place that did
little credit to his judgment—the hinge
bearing of the tail plane—where it soon
came adrift when the mill was turned
on. He must have had misgivings, how-
ever, for he had started a substitute on
the upper rod guide, which he completed
and she furnished with four “googs.”
These all hatched out, apparently with
none other than the able assistance of
Old Sol; it was midsummer, and the
wonder is that they weren’t fried. In
dozens of visits (the mill pumps to the
house from a mile away) I never saw a
bird near the place, but only one infant
was in evidence on my next visit after
their birthday, and he was looking smug.
He was a lusty youngster, but ill-fated,
Making his first solo, a trifle preco-
ciously, he overlooked the fact that a
w?m d surr ° unded h , im
He nose-dived family 5 ° ™ e ''
* * * *
“Delia”: That yarn about the death-
adder with hundreds of dead ants round
its poisonous mouth is interesting, but
it does not necessarily prove the
potency of the serpent’s venom, though
that is beyond question. Provided there
are no lesions in the membranes of the
mouth or the internal organs permitting
the poison access to the bloodstream,
anyone could drink a quart of the stuff
without risk of snake-poisoning. The
incident proves to me most conclusively
that “R.H.’s” ants were afflicted with
pyorrhea and should have consulted a
dentist.
“Coofcah”; Years ago I saw a black-
boy bitten by a death-adder. I’d seen
boys bitten by other kinds of snakes, but
never fatally ; with them they employed
the usual means of scarifying and suck-
ing. When the adder bit that boy he
made no attempt to deal with the bite.
He picked up the adder, ignoring the
repeated bites he received in the process,
and stretched it full length in front of
him. Then he ripped its inside out with
his teeth. A form of revenge—the boy
knew he had no chance against the
adder’s bite, and that was his final gesture
to fate before he was gathered unto his
fathers,
Tockilly”; Some old bushmen swear
that a death-adder never stirs during the
day, and that, like many of his betters,
he can’t stand water at any price. While
we were fishing near Fernvale (Q.) a big
adder hove in sight round the bend, and
swam lazily past our corks. It was rusty
brown in color. Apparently this killer is
amphibious, like the rest of the Blake
family.
* * « *
“Moucher”: O. Henry wrote in “The
Gentle Grafter” of a crook who sold a
drayful of rubbish that he had cut out
of the scrub as choice young fruit trees
of the newest varieties. In a moment of
forgetfulness he next year visited the same
locality, with painful consequences. Fic-
tion has partly repeated itself in N.S.W.
An affable gentleman sold large quantities
of a rare flowering plant to the local
nobility and gentry. Later the plants
turned out to be evening primroses, rank
pests and occupying a high place on the
noxious weeds list.
* * * *
“A.N.S.”: The vast horns and sweet
face of a cow were amid the Namoi’s
floating canopy which swept past Gunne-
dah (N.S.W.) above its surging waste.
Further on Cherry came out to drain off
and to crop the grass. Before benevo-
lence could be offered she waded in,
sank and was soon sailing merrily down
midstream again. At least one cow
was out for a jaunt while the going was
good.
* * * *
“Bungle”: The local Bradman was
on the boundary, and a particularly en-
thusiastic effort found him skidding on
the short clover for yards before he
landed on the best-upholstered part of
his anatomy. The raucous yell which
followed he blithely took for an Olym-
pian’s just tribute, until a smoky smell
and a fiery pain disturbed his placidity.
Motto: Don’t carry wax matches in the
hip-pocket whilst fielding.
* * * %
“West Darling”: Timed a garden-
spider dealing with a blowfly—9o
seconds from the first punch until the
corpse was wrapped in its silken, air-
tight winding-sheet. Is this a preservative
or a means of preventing the victim mak-
ing a wreck of the web?
* * * *
“Tid’apa”; Apparently the piranha is
deadly (B. 19/2/’36), for these little
terrors were respon-
sible for the deaths
of 65 South Ameri-
cans last year. When
a canoe-load of 20
natives were precipi-
tated into fhe water
five only survived. I
strongly suspect that
a touring party of
our leather-jackets
have learned the
technique of the
piranha. Not so
long ago a diver
working off Sydney
Heads was attacked
by a school of
’jackets, the exposed
flesh of his hands
being badly ripped.
And it’s a hopeless task angling
for redfish “outside” if you get any-
where near the “leathers” —all you’ll
bring up will be the heads.
* * * *
“Poaler”: On an abandoned banana-
farm on Mount Mellum (Q.) stands, as
a lasting monument to the skill of some
scrub-feller, the stump of a tree. To
chop above the spreading spurs that axe-
man had to climb seven lifts of his
springboard and make his cut 25 feet
above ground. The log he dropped is
still solid to the core, and measures over
15 feet in girth just above the scarf.
OFF SCRATCH AGAIN.
You'll hear them say that the old man’s mad,
and wondering what he’s at;
You’ll hear them say that he’s got it bad, but
you won’t hear me say that.
Not that I’m built on a nobler plan or better
than other men,
But I won’t be one to barrack a man who’s
starting off scratch again.
For I’ve known him in his ups and downs, and
he’s seen a few each way.
And I’ve no time for the grinning clowns who
find him a joke to-day,
Who find him only a subject for their wit and
their laughter when
He puts his faith in himself once more and
starts off scratch again.
You’ll hear them say that the old man’s done,
but he’s proving he’s not done yet;
You’ll hear them say that he’s slipped a ton,
but there’s something they forget:
There’s never a game that’s better played than
the game of all games when
A loser shows that he’s undismayed—by start-
ing off scratch again.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


1
m
Ran
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.’'
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following;
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE J* QUEENSLAND - BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
■VALLEY' BRISBANE • •
ĕ
• The Hotel Mansions
Situated in the highest and most convenient posi-
tion in Sydney, this well-established Hotel gives
you every luxury and service.
We are noted for our splendid cuisine and
competent staff.
Reservations day and night ever at your service!
SYDNEY’S SOCIAL CENTRE
King’s Cross, Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
Phalaris Tuberosa
N.S.W. Government Certified “Permanent
Pasture” and “Mother” Seed.
(In sealed bags.)
Warranted to comply with the
requirements of the Agricultural
Seeds Act.
DROUGHT AND FROST RESISTANT
PERMANENT PASTURE
We can supply all your grass-seed
requirements. The best strains of
the best Grasses and Clovers
packed under our N.E.P.S.A. brand
direct from grower to you.
Write for booklet dealing with
establishment and management of
Phalaris Tuberose pastures and
price list to
New England Pure Seeds Association
Box 17, GLEN INNES, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Wool Draft.
“Murrawong”: I am not an advocate
of draft, nor have I ever encountered
any adherents who subscribed to the
third version advanced by “8.0’C.” (B.
4/3/’36). Further, no one with a know-
ledge of woolbuying practice would
agree that the allowance was meant to
cover underestimates in yield.
The allowance originated in the days
when shearing sheds boasting accurate
scales were few and far between, and
before wool was handled with the
amount of care now bestowed on it.
That the practice survives is largely due
to the lack of interest woolgrowers of the
past displayed in their clips after they left
the sheds.
The buyer of a lot of wool pays for
the weight received into the broker’s
store, probably months before the sale.
On the showfloor, the contents of bales
that were machine-pressed are scattered
about the floor, and this has to be put
back by hand after the sale. It seldom
occurs that such a bale increases in
weight after this operation. If the buyer
has any doubts and insists on having the
bales reweighed before taking delivery,
he is charged an extra fee. Should the
lot arrive at its destination underweight,
the buyer can claim for only such indi-
vidual bales as are found to weigh 201 b.
or over less than the stated weight. If
two bales of a lot are each 151 b. light,
no claim is allowed.
The bulk of our wool is bought on a
commission basis. The buyer notifies his
principal of the type of wool bought and
its estimated yield. Here, the buyer is
allowed a margin of only 2 p.c. and if
his estimate is at fault he is liable to
suffer.
Draft is deducted by lib. per cwt.,
calculated to the nearest cwt. Thus the
draft on a 2791 b. bale is 21b. —on a 2811 b.
one, 31b.
Buying a mob of sheep and buying a
line of wool are two dissimilar opera-
tions. An experienced sheepman looks
over a mob —they are probably all under
his eye at once. He can assess the pro-
portion of below-average sheep among
them and what rejection he will need
to even them up. He can even go
through them and examine every animal
if he and the seller have the time and
patience. On the show floor, the buyer
sees three bales displayed out of a 50-
bale line. The balance are in a bulk
store, and he has to accept the sample
as representative.
Certainly, the woolgrower gets no
recompense for the woolpacks, but his
proportionate outlay is nothing com-
pared with , that of the banana-
grower who gets ss. gross for a
case of fruit, the timber of which
may have cost him Is. If the draft
allowance were cut out to-morrow, it is
doubtful whether growers would benefit
one penny. Buying limits are at present
based on the allowance. The fraction
involved in a revision of those limits
would fall to the detriment of the seller.
Beating Black Disease.
“Rom Ney”; Liver fluke snail has two
breeding seasons —March and November.
Bluestoning the water will do most good
in s.-eastern Australia now.
The black-disease germ will remain in-
active until some destruction of liver
tissue gives it an opening. Liver fluke
brings this about, and the black disease
organism immediately gets busy.
No other agent under natural condi-
tions will assist the germ ; hence, if fluke
can be eliminated or curtailed, losses
from b.d. and acute fluke will cease or
be reduced to a minimum.
The fluke embryo must pass through
a certain species of freshwater snail if
it is to continue its. life-cycle and pass
its progeny back into the sheep through
the grass or weeds on the edge of the
water. These snails are plentiful, especi-
ally in south of N.S.W.
Small quantities of bluestone in the
water which is its habitat will destroy
the snail. For dams and waterholes,
suspend 21b. to 31b. of bluestone crystals
in a bag in the water. In running
streams, place a similar bag at the up-
stream extremity. Springs and swamps
overgrown with herbage over which the
jumbucks graze are the most dangerous
places and most difficult to treat. Where
they cannot be fenced off, or furrowed
and drained to be treated as running
streams, scatter a mixture of 1 part
powdered bluestone to 3 parts of fine
sand at the rate of 281 b. to the acre.
The sand helps to carry the bluestone
down to the water.
“All Theory,” Is It?
“X7N”: In too many cases the sheep-
man has Still much to learn regarding
the possibilities of science. I recently
handed copies of the report of the Joint
Blowfly Committee of the C.S.I.R. to two
“practical” men, both managing very
large properties. The first passed the
booklet straight back, with the remark,
“That’s all theory. It doesn’t interest
me.”
The second took his copy home, but
returned it the following day,, saying
he thought it was probably interesting,
but not applicable to conditions in their
part of Queensland.
In this case, the prior use of a little
office paste in a few pages provided
proof that the report may have been
opened, but certainly had not been read.
No,. 1 estimates his annual losses
through fly at from 500 to 600 ewes and
“a few rams.” He is probably under-
stating it.
Neither has marked 35 p.c. of lambs
in any one of the past eight years,
although their neighbors on all sides
regularly mark and shear over 60 p.c.
My friends lamb when the fly is at
its worst, in March and September, but
it has apparently not occurred to them
that the fly might have something to do
with the heavy lamb mortaliy.
Which Lamb-weight Pays?
“Bimbo”: In some quarters fat-lamb
breeders are being continually urged to
produce a prime lightweight lamb, but,
although the lightweight may bring more
per pound, I find that the heavyweight
returns considerably more per head,
which is the thing that counts. The
Southdown is advocated as being the
ram to produce the ideal freezer, but it
has been my experience that the buyers
will not pay any more for this cross
than for any other. For some years I
mated Southdown, Ryeland, Corriedale
and Border Leicester rams with Gorrie-
dale ewes, and received the same price
for the lambs of each cross, the buyer
making no distinction, while the number
of rejects from each cross was practically
the same.
The lambs were reared on the same
feed, under the same conditions.
I now use only Corriedale rams, keep-
ing the pick of the ewe lambs to build
up the flock, while any rejects have a
higher store value than would lambs by
mutton-breed rams.
Eye Troubles.
“Albarmount”: The cornea (front of
the eyeball) is nourished by a clear
lymph. It has no blood flow; blood
would cloud the vision. Coagulated
lymph within the cornea is often mis-
taken for a “scum over the eye,” and a
dangerous error is made in attempting
to scrape it off. Bathing with hot boracic
water should help.
When the pink-eye germ infests the
bloodstream at the edges of the eyeball,
the inflammation set up causes a pinkish
color to show through the transparent
cornea. At a more advanced stage ulcera-
tion eats into the cornea, and finally
bursts the delicate membranes outwards,
allowing the lymph to escape. The front
of the eye becomes rough and ulcerated,
and sometimes collapses.
“Lion’s” sheep (B. 4/3/’36) apparently
escaped this fate ; otherwise, from experi-
ence, he would know that neglected p.-e.
sheep are liable to go blind.
Beating Noogoora.
“B-gar”: “Cutting the stalks below the
surface and poisoning with arsenic pen-
toxide,” as suggested by “Agamemnon”
(B. 4/3 /’36) for eradicating Noogoora,
was tried years ago around Clermont
(C.Q.). Results were only mediocre.
The most successful methods adopted
were to pull the young plants out
by the roots, rake together and burn
when dry. The results were only tem-
porary, and a splendid crop of Noogoora
usually eventuated in patches where it
was hoped the pest had been wiped out.
The Noogoora problem is becoming
more acute yearly in parts of Queens-
land, A thorough campaign is necessary
if the pest is to be kept within bounds.
Branding Sheep.
“Granova”: “Winfield’s” suggestion re
branding positions (B. 26/2/’36) will not
be popular. Many graziers brand each
of their flocks in a different position so
that they can be readily drafted if boxed
accidentally.
Neighbors could use different colored
branding oils, but if the sheep are
branded carefully there is always some
indication of the brand. Besides, the ear-
mark acts as a check.
A neat branding race, holding not
more than three sheep abreast, and low
enough for the operator to lean over, is
the first essential. Use good branding oil,
and beware of the stuff that goes thick
when it is cold, as one sheep will be
plastered with it and the next will get
none.
Heavy branding-irons are an affliction
They should have no more handle on
them than is necessary for the operator
to grip. I use a home-made wooden T
brand.
A piece of sheepskin with an inch of
wool on is the best pad for the bottom
of the branding-tin. Loose wool some-
times sticks to the iron.
“Glentronie”: It is a good idea to sex
your sheep off-shears in the branding
race. If wethers are branded on the
rump and ewes on the shoulder, draft-
ing is easier and much more clean than
if they are taken off by the earmarks.
Rump-branded sheep are liable to be
obscured by crutching or maggots, so
ewes should always be branded on the
shoulder, and the brand on the wether
should never be too low down on this
account.
New England Pasture.
“Ghanam”: Phalaris tuberosa has be-
come the centre of a cult in northern
N.S.W. The New England Pure Seeds
Association, which includes well-known
graziers on its committee, has issued a
pamphlet about it.
Phalaris is not an Australian grass—
like lucerne, it comes from the Mediter-
ranean, and has not been in the Com-
monwealth more than a generation. As
a winter perennial, able to fight against
frost, with deep roots which protect it
against droughts, and giving heavy spring
growth, it suits the N. S. Wales northern
tableland. But coastal North Queens-
land and the 17in, rainfall belt in S.A.
have had some successes with it. In
paspalum regions it is one of the few
grasses which can stand up to its rival,
and it likes punishment—few fodders are
so impervious to heavy grazing. In its
seeding stages rye grass is dangerous to
it, but once it is established it can hold
its own with anything under suitable
climatic and soil conditions.
The only certified seed so far comes
from New England, and this is pro-
duced from paddocks 10 years old.
Phalaris makes big nitrogen demands,
and does well, therefore, on soils on
which there has been a preliminary crop
of either clovers or rye and cocksfoot
which have stood about three years’ graz-
ing. But equal results can be obtained
by sowing down cowpeas or other green
manure plants and ploughing in before
sowing p.t. It does not usually succeed
following a cereal crop.
This and next month are the best
periods in most districts to put in phal-
aris. Land should be ploughed fairly
but not too deeply, and then worked into
a fine and well-set seedbed. A spring-
tooth cultivation and a few harrowings
are the ideal. Seed should be sown at
the rate of 31b. to 41b. per acre, with lewt.
super., and both seed and super, should
be under the soil an inch. Mixing of fer-
tiliser and seed should be done not more
than 24 hours before sowing.
The grass should produce feed in the
winter of the present year if sown now,
but it does not always give good results
in the first year. It is often slow in estab-
lishing itself, but once established there
are few grasses which can beat it for
regular annual improvements.
Grazing may begin 12 to 14 weeks
after sowing. The paddock should be
fed over quickly, and then spelled care-
fully until there is substantial fresh
growth. And keep up the clover to
make nitrogen every season, renovating
with a tine implement and working the
paddock both ways every second year.
Spring is the best time for the job.
Drenching for Worms.
“Liss”: I think that “W.D.Mc.” (B.
19 /2 / ’36) will find sodium arsenite just
as much an irritant as copper sulphate
(bluestone), and nicotine sulphate (Black
Leaf 40), which he uses in conjunction
with arsenic, is worse than either.
Before condemning any drug, or com-
bination of drugs, it is as well to under-
stand their functions and the principles
underlying their use.
Bluestone used alone has a compara-
tively high efficiency against Hcemonchm
contortus, but, in addition, it performs a
most important function when used with
other suitable drugs.
In cases of trichostrongylosis the drug
used should be introduced directly into
the fourth stomach (abomasum), and it
is for this purpose that bluestone is valu-
able.
The low efficiency of sodium arsenite
and tetrachlorethylene is supposed to be
due to the fact that, as often as not, they
pass into the rumen and are lost. This
has been supported by post-mortem
examinations.
Carbon tetrachloride is absorbed
directly into the bloodstream. It was
found some time ago that copper sul-
phate had the effect of closing the
oesophageal groove, and if used as a
vehicle for certain other drugs and com-
pounds, of which nicotine sulphate
is the most important, it carried
them directly into the abomasum. Tests
have shown that this combination has a
99.8 p.c, efficiency against Hcemonchus
contortus, and it was the only specific
that gave any promise at all against the
trichostrongylus spp.
The dose may be given concentrated,
which is more convenient than giving it
o Continued on page 24.)


m
1/iaSi
:
v:
MB .A
/ ' *
m~=zi
mFmSSmm
Vt ..e~~ Am? A .... ' ?~A
■:W. ■ —-
EssSir
■/V'"
✓ - -
;::;;;; . , '
o ;
A
m::.
Sip
% 7 1
«se.-*z
:■■■
&FSS&
E£ f W
t/
-
.
~' 4 ,
X
it *v- >ViN | S
£g> ~ £ 4&-. *s' zij*t s»n -^fe
:.i 'V' .' -■“ ' V . - ' SS?
\
A%
ft
M
CONSPICUOUS MILESTONES
IN TRAVEL MEMORY
THE MANY PORTS on the
Orient Line Route constitute
an exhilarating sequence of
diverse and vivid scenes.
. T At Suez, Orient liners anchor some dis-
EGYrI tance f rom t he shore. Soon, native bum-
boats, with vociferating traders and all
manner of Eastern wares, cluster around
the ship. Usually their business is conducted
with quite as much amusement to the ship’s
company as profit to the vendors. The town
lies to the west of the Canal entrance and
across the unusually soft-looking water its
pink, blue and white buildings, thrown into
high relief by the strong sunlight, seem
surprisingly tall. Only those passengers
disembark who are setting off on the Suez-
Said excursion.
You may think that you’ve seen mirages in
Australia, but those you will encounter
while motoring across the desert from Suez
to Cairo almost surpass belief . . . Cairo !
You are to see Cairo —bazaars, mosques,
minarets, relics of the Pharaohs, Pyramids
and all ! The Royal goods and chattels,
.garnered from the ancient tombs, show us
exactly how the Pharaohs lived. What
craftsmanship in gold and lapis lazuli is
displayed in Tut-ankh-amen s sarcophagus .
Perhaps your grandest memory will be of
the inscrutable Sphinx. No doubt her age-
long vigil over the human procession is
reason enough for holding mixed feelings
about Man ! But stand between the great
stone paws. You are at the Shrine of Travel
—in the very presence of the High Priest-
ess ! Possibly, if you are of those to whom
stones mean something beyond mute
masonry, she may unbend to you.
Then, as your train skirts the canal on the
way to Port Said, and you sample Egyptian
coffee—thick enough to stand a spoon in
you see the big ships moving along the
Canal, searchlights on bows, looking like
gigantic motor cars. And, if your luck is in,
the moon will be a clear and brilliant
crescent —just as it should be in Egypt.
No one looks for scenery at Port Said ; but
it teems with human interest. Probably,
like many others! you will be labelled by the
sly vendors of beads and Turkish Delight as
Sir Mclntosh or Mr. Lauder !
Memories of-days in Egypt remain indelible !
COLOMBO. ADEN. (CAIRO) PORT SAID.
NICE). TOULON. PALMA. GIBRALTAR.
NAPLES. VILLEFRANCHE (MONTE CARLO.
SOUTHAMPTON —and so to LONDON I
&
rr
ORIENT LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. Incorporated in England.
R 0 V fi L mOIL STEfIfTIERS


*
■
li
n
! DING,
WORKING,
ROUGH COUHTRY
WEAR AND
HIKING
BUY AN .. .
ABBEY COSSACK
There are two fea-
tures which are most
important in country
Boots; one is wear, and
the other is comfort.
This Abbey Cossack will
give you both, adding to them
a feature which is always
pleasing in footwear—good
appearance.
Made in Black or Brown Calf and in Brown Grained Calf
Stocked, in full and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf, 37/6; Brown Calf, 40/- and 45/-
Brown Grained Calf, 45/-.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
WA2I.
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
inti
V
11
Bn
rjtk
'
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes ?
f UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
217 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne.
515
PM.
TIOOME7RAIN
Work over for the day, man and
maid, young and old are intent
upon “getting home.” All day they
have been concerned with business,
mostly someone else's business, for the
majority of the homeward-bound
travellers are salary or wage earners.
Have they—have you —found
time for personal business? Have
you made the same wise provisions
for your own financial needs that,
as a matter of course, and of sound
business practice, you made for
the company, department or, shop
where you earn your living?
The Commonwealth Savings Bank
is open all day in City, Town,
Village and Country Post Office,
and its convenient services are
therefore easily available to all.
Opening a Savings Bank account
—and using it —costs little time
and no money, and it will pay you
well in the long run.
commonuieniiH
SAUinBS URDU
0 F fl USTRRLIfI
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder. '
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers* Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
in ounces. The formula for the stronger
form is 11b. bluestone and 16 fl. oz.
Black Leaf 40 in 2gal. water. The dose
for grown sheep is 20cc., for two-tooths
15cc., for lambs from four months to
sheep 12 months old 10cc., and for lambs
under four months scc. With sheep from
12 months up, I have successfully doubled
the strength of the mixture and given
half the dose.
Great care should be taken in the
handling of the nicotine sulphate, as it is
a very dangerous poison, and can also
severely damage the sight if it should get
into the eyes.
Class Your Crutchings.
“Crutchem”: Crutchings do not need
to be sold cheaply in the shed. It doesn’t
need classing knowledge to get them up
payably.
Into your first line put all clean and
long wool, taking great care not to allow
stained to creep in. Into the second put
the shorter and dirtier wool, keeping all
dags religiously out. Nothing damages
a line as much as dags. If there is much
stained, make a separate line of it. In
the average clip this could safely be put
into the second line. You will be sur-
prised how good the top line looks.
Buyers can see exactly what they are
getting, and know that there is no waste
not obvious to allow for.
If your sheep have a decent-length
wool, the top line should be worth about
9d. to Is. per pound in Sydney ; odd lines
more. After all, most piece lines con-
sist of six months’ wool from around the
very place you crutch, although it is
shearing time. The first pieces naturally
carry some longer wool.
Carbon Tetrachloride Again.
“Pamac”: F. H. S. Roberts, Animal
Health Entomologist, Yeerongpilly (Q.),
takes a pessimistic view of the toxic
properties of carbon tetrachloride used
as a drench, but the fact remains that
each year millions of sheep are given the
| drug. There are deaths, but when one
; compares their number with the number
of animals dosed the percentage is very
small.
The first thing is to make sure
that the drug used is chemically pure.
And it should be used with special care
in the following cases:
1. Where there is lime deficiency in the
blood. Sheep suspected should be given
a good calcium-phosphate lick for several
weeks before drenching.
2. Where sheep are on concentrated
food, young green crops, or scrub.
3. During cold, wet or bleak weather.
C.t.’s effectiveness and its easy and
simple administration make it popular
among owners, especially where a large
mob has to be handled. It remains the
worst enemy of liver fluke.
The C.S.I.R. thinks Mr. Roberts is
rather severe. It also suggests that,
in addition to the precautions men-
tioned, experiments should be made
on small parts of the flock before the
drug is administered to the whole flock.
The dosing method is important, and
care must be taken that the drug does
not enter the windpipe. One of the safest
ways is to make sure that the sheep has
all four legs on the ground when the
drug is given.
M.L. Burrs.
“Athanasius”: Maoriland woolgrowers,
who suffer a substantial loss annually
through bidi-bidi burr, are hopefully
regarding the attack now being launched
by the Cawthron Institute upon the pest.
An initial shipment of 30,000 saw-fly
parasites has been landed from southern
Chile, after extensive laboratory tests to
make certain that they would not be
harmful to other vegetable or animal
life.
The parasites lay their eggs on the
leaves and flowers of the bidi-bidi, and
their larvae prevent it from reaching the
seeding stage.
Wanganui districts, as the most heavily
overrun by the weed, will probably be
the scene of the first onslaught, and
further supplies of the saw-fly are com-
ing to other affected districts.
Purebred or Grade Rams?
“Winfield”: It is not uncommon to
see grade rams with so nearly the char-
acteristics of the purebred that only an
expert can tell the difference. For this
reason many breeders seeking sires will
accept something short of the real article.
But because a lamb carries one-half
its sire’s blood a chart will show con-
vincingly the importance of using pure-
bred.
Using a purebred ram throughout for
five generations, when the first dam is a
half-bred, gives the following results;
The second cross is three-quarter pure ;
the third cross, seven-eighths pure ; the
fourth cross, fifteen-sixteenths pure ; and
in the fifth cross the progeny has been
so graded up (31-32 pure) that for all
practical purposes (other than using as
a sire) it is purebred.
If the sires used throughout are three-
quarter pure, and the ewe to begin with
is again a half-bred, the second cross is
only five-eighths pure, while the fifth
cross is only forty-seven-sixty-fourths
pure.
And if, instead of either of the above
sires, a half-bred is used, our chart shows
that the fifth generation, like the first, is
still a half-bred!
Replace the above sires with one-
quarter-pure rams, and the progeny will
depreciate at the same rate as it has im-
proved when using a three-quarter-pure
sire ; so that in the fifth generation the
pure blood has almost disappeared.
Begin with purebred rams. Select
those ewes from the progeny that most
resemble their sire, and mate them, if
possible, with a ram of the same blood
as the first sire, but not more closely
related than cousins. Select again—good
ancestry will not make a poor individual
a good parent.
Gangrenous Mastitis.
“Valerin”; This is just plain “scabby
mouth.”
Investigations at Glenfield (N.S.W.)
have demonstrated that the “gents” re-
sponsible for it are two organisms be-
longing to the group which is associated
with sheep scourges—malignant oedema
and black disease.
Local evidence confirms the European
reports that the virulence of the disease
is greater in flush seasons when the soil
is subjected to heavy rains.
Satisfactory treatment is immersion of
affected parts in a solution of 21b. blue-
stone to 10 gallons of water, followed by
an oily dressing of five parts coal-tar dip,
10 parts sulphur and 100 parts tallow.
The udders of the ewes will get enough
dressing from the lambs’ attentions.
But vigilance is imperative.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bungaree”: Another method of creat-
ing a breeze in a hot crutching shed is
to wind a sugarbag round the shafting,
taking care to sew or wire it securely,
and leaving Sin. or 4in. of the end to
hang clear and act as fan. Particular
care must be taken to keep this clear
of gear. As with the metal fan suggested
by “Colon” (B. 4/3/’36), the speed of
the shafting must be retimed, as fans con-
siderably decrease the revs, per minute.
“Colon”; Always inspect sheep before
2 p.m. Sheep have a habit of looking
better than they really are after that
hour. If inspecting in a sloping yard,
look down, not up, or the sheep will
seem bigger. Let the seller pick a woolly
—it’ll probably be the best. Then grab
the worst you can see. The mean be-
tween the two should be the average.
Leave the ram with the big head —he’s
often lazy ; and the one with the small
head—he’s usually effeminate. And don’t
mistake wrinkles for folds—the flies
won’t.
“W.A.”: Another use for old Bulle-
tins in the outback camp, where butter
gets soft and boards are scarce. Cut two
feet off a partly green and hollow red-
gum log, and sink it six inches into the
ground ; a few Bushmen’s Bibles act as
a solid cover for the cool chamber.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
r
■
111
111
AHIII
m
111
m
m %
m
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Unheard-of Request.
Until he made his rather thoughtless
request at breakfast, the welcome ac-
corded Bilkins by the Pullem family had
been most cordial.
“Pass the cream, please,” he had said
politely.
Almost at once he felt his hosts
become hostile.
“What did you say?” Pa Pullem
asked, frowning.
“Er —pass the cream, please,” Bilkins
stammered uncomfortably.
“Cream?” Old Pullem was plainly
scornful. “There is no cream. Surely
you know this is a dairy farm?”
o. w. w.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Our diplomats seem to have got olive
branches mixed up with stinging nettles,
4* 4* 4* 4*
Remorse.
She walked up the stairs slowly, lack-
ing her usual zest. There was an air of
despondency in the way she opened the
door and sank into the nearest chair.
Something was weighing on her mind.
Why, oh why, had she done it? Now
that the act was committed, she felt
overwhelmed with remorse, bitterly
ashamed of herself.
She wished that she could put time
back, and once more have the chance
of choosing between the good and the
bad. If only she could! How readily
would she obey the prompting of her
conscience!
True, other girls had often done the
same thing without a vestige of shame.
But, then, they were hardened sinners.
This was the first time she’d ridden home
on the tram without paying her fare.
T. W. N.
In Extremis.
Want, real want, grim and terrible,
had come to the Trite family. They
had known want before, but never in
this tragic form. They had now
reached the limit of suffering and despair.
Their credit was exhausted ; the neigh-
bors were sick of their borrowings; but
somehow, no doubt, they would be able
to gather a little food.
The privation that had come to them
was something worse than that. It was
a thing that robbed them of all hope,
plunged them into the depths of despair.
There was not a penny available, and
no chance of borrowing any, so for the
first time in years they would be without
a ticket in the lottery.
H. M.
4* 4. 4. 4*
“T° wear the hair in bangs is becoming
fashionable. Do not be surprised if a friend
meets you with a bang over the forehead.”
—Woman’s paper.
A clip over the ear will be the natural
response.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Hints for the Week-end Motorist.
If it has been raining heavily for
several days, make certain that you spend
all Saturday afternoon cleaning and pol-
ishing the car, as the wife will be sure
to demand a run on the Sunday to some
httle-known spot where the roads are
still at the bullock-track stage. Don’t
bother about putting the chains in—
they are so much extra weight. When
you are bogged in a few feet of glutinous
mud, don’t start cursing about the chains
being left behind—they wouldn’t have
been of any use probably.
Let the wife take the wheel while
you get behind with a paling (if you can
find one), inserting it between the rear
wheel and the solid base of the rut (if
any). When the missus steps on the
accelerator before you are ready and you
get a good squirt of mud down your
front elevation don’t swear. You prob-
ably won’t be able to, anyway, for spit-
ting the stuff out.
When you eventually have to ask a
fellow to pull you out with a horse and
he socks you ten bob, remember the
bad way rural industries are in.
If when motoring you strike a forked
road with no fingerpost and consider the
right-hand fork the correct one, while
your wife and her mother declare em-
phatically for the left, take the left. Had
you taken the right and it had proved
wrong, that would have constituted the
sole domestic topic for the next two
months. If, on the other hand, you take
the wife’s instructions and the left fork,
and that proves incorrect, you will be an
idiot for going motoring without first
making yourself acquainted, etc.
It is axiomatic that a fully-loaded car
“rides” better than a half-empty one.
You will be impressed with this when
“I Want a bath, please.”
“ Certainly, madam. Here, or in the office?”
the wife suggests taking her sister,
brother-in-law and six children with you
when you suggest a quiet little spin into
the country for the day. It is best to
fall in with the idea right away. You’d
have to later, anyway.
It is so easily arranged. Your wife,
yourself and little Alfie in the front seat,
with Normie standing up and fiddling
with the choke and self-starter buttons.
He might fall against the gear-lever,
which will be among the maze of legs,
while you are in top, and put you into
reverse, thus stripping all your gears, but
that’s a trifle.
Alice, Claude and the other four kids
will be in the back. You needn’t give a
damn how they fit in a seat built for
three—that’s their pigeon.
And when you go over a rut with 88
stone on board and break an axle, it is
comforting to know that your brother-in-
law will foot half the bill—theoretically,
at all events.
S. W. K.
4* ' 4* 4* 4*
“It is unreasonable to adopt the view that
the motorist or the pedestrian has all rights
or no rights.”— “Sun.”
What the pedestrian appears to have
is all the last rites.
•J* *l* *l*
“Because the man in charge at an Irish fair
couldn’t stop the roundabouts, several passen-
gers were carried round for nearly three
hours.”
The swings will now be hard put to
catch up with that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Does Anyone Want a Bee?
I asked a beekeeper the other day
how his bees were.
“No good,” he said gloomily. “The
fact is they’re suffering from failing eye-
sight, and, in consequence, let blowflies
into the hives, mistaking them for bees,
with, of course, disastrous results to the
honey. They also waste their time try-
ing to get honey out of floral wallpaper,
florists’ catalogues, flags and jam-labels.”
“What are you going to do about it?”
I asked.
“Nothing,” he replied pessimistically,
“for what with following blowflies about
in the mistaken idea that they’ll be led
to fields of dandelions instead of to gar-
bage dumps, and pursuing colored buses
and trams until their wings are worn out,
I’ll have nothing soon except empty and
fly-blown hives on my hands.
“So if you know anybody who wants a
few,” he added, “in exchange for kegs
and a beer recipe, a copy of the ‘Late-
Risers’ Guide to Effortless Farming,’ a
comfortable couch and an easy chair or
two, a fireless, waterless and woodless
cooker, really reliable draught-excluders
or anything else at all likely to be con-
ducive to the unimpeded enjoyment of
one’s reclining years, you might let me
know, will you?”
I promised most infallibly to do so.
Dregs.
•I- 4* 4* 4*
“They planned to ambush him at the bottom
of the garden.” — “Sun.”
A garden plot.
4* 4* *l* 4*
Too Expert.
“I’m surprised to hear that you’ve lost
your job,” remarked the salesman’s
friend. “I thought you were supposed to
be the salesman nobody could resist.”
“That was just it,” moaned the super
salesman. “I couldn’t resist myself. I
sold myself goods worth hundreds, then
couldn’t pay for them. I got sack
for booking so many crook orders.”
Ced,
“Dozens of disused posts were found in the
cellar.”— “Age.”
Evidently a pole vault.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Winning Through.
“It is entirely my own effort that has
put me where I am to-day,” thundered
the speaker. “Will power and the deter-
mination to overcome obstacles. There
was much in my road before I could get
where I am. I had to fight, and fight
hard. It’s no mere fluke that I have won
my way here. I will just give you one
example—expose one trick that was de-
signed to keep me away from my goal.
My wife hid my trousers, but I bor-
rowed the gardener’s and arrived here
at the bar just in time to hear the first
race.” Sef.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘To a golfer a little ball means great
pleasure,’ states enthusiast.”
A joy to be holed.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
VI. — Kaleidoscope of Kalgoorlie.
Before going to Kalgoorlie the tourist
should visit Mundaring to see the gold-
fields water supply. He should gaze for
a few moments at the water rushing into
the intake channel, then he should dash
away to join the Kalgoorlie express.
If he expects to get to Kal. ahead of
the water, though, he’ll be sadly dis-
appointed.
Miss Birdseed, on having her first glass
of water at the goldfields, swore she
recognised some of the drops, but it’s a
pretty safe bet she was mistaken. The
stuff she saw going in at the Mundaring
end was probably converted into beer at
Kalgoorlie before she was half-way there.
And, speaking of beer, when an old
Westralian talks of the Golden Days he
isn’t referring so much to the time when
“The Mile” was paying off the national
debt every month or so as to the time
when there was a pub on every corner,
and two or three in between, and the
bottle heaps in the backyards thereof
were as high as the Horseshoe dump.
This, by the way, used to be one of
the sights of the place.
“Presently,” I said to my party, “you
will see the Horseshoe dump—the big-
gest man-made hill in Australia.”
“I suppose that’s the result of motor-
cars supplanting horses,” murmured Sir
Percy Whipsnoodle ; but I let' it pass, as
we’d just turned the corner, and where
the dump should have been no dump
was.
It took a lot of explaining, and Mrs.
Loofah passed some nasty remarks about
guides who didn’t know their business ;
so I took them on a bit further and
showed them the hotel where the news-
paper editors used to drink neat whisky
while making up their minds whether to
take the horsewhipping or risk the libel
action.
No tourist should miss the opportunity
of going down a goldmine. He won’t
enjoy it; it’s an uncomfortable, incon-
venient and dirty way of spending an
afternoon, but it’s the right thing to do.
My party, of course, insisted on doing
it—all except the Loofahs. As soon as
Mrs. Loofah heard the manager men-
tion “stopes,” she muttered “Disgust-
ing!” and left the party. Loofah, of
course, went too.
Miss Birdseed’s impressions of the
mine:
So thrilling. We went down drives
and residues and tailings and things, and
the man showed us some ore that went
10 hundredweight to the ounce (or was it
pound, I’m not sure), and he said the
miners weren’t allowed to have gold fillings
in their teeth, which I thought unfair.
I asked them to show me the white gold
like my watch is made of, but, as there’s
not so much demand for that sort, they
only mine it on Tuesdays and Fridays.
Extract from Claude Counterpane’s
diary:
Kalgoorlie is a good place, but I got
there 40 years too late.
Things no one should miss in Kal-
goorlie :
Closing time on payday; the tram that’s
been running for 40 years without paying
a dividend; the spot where Big John For-
rest was poked in the ribs by an umbrella.
Jasby.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The new hats will feature Alpine shapes.”
— Woman’s paper•
For social climbers?
Independence—with Reservation.
You think, Miss ’Thirty-six,
You’ve won equality —
You voice a flippant “Nix!”
To male supremacy.
You’ve thrown your gyves away ;
You smoke, you drink, you vote,
Your brothers’ games you play
With aptitude, I note.
With precedent you’ve done,
Of home-routine you’re tired.
For status in the sun
Of man’s domain you’re fired.
But there’s one flaw that will
Not readily begone:
You like male shoulders still,
My dear, for crying on !
P.O.M.C.
Female.
She made a scene; she wept; she swore ;
She told me that she rued the day
We ever met; she flung the door
Wide open, screaming “Go away !”
And then she said she loathed me more
Than ever she could hope to say.
From which I understand that she
Is very much in love with me.
NAT.


New Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:—
THE BRIDLE TRACK
By J.J. HARDIE
Chapter 111.
THEY crawled past Aramac with the crusted mud
still clinging to them in evidence of an episode
they could never forget. None of them was really
conscious of the closing events of that terrible day
when utter exhaustion merged sleep with waking so
subtly that the change was imperceptible. They
worked till it was too dark to see, then stumbled, bent
and dazed, toward the campfire, wiping the worst of
the mud from hands and mouth, and mechanically
swallowing the damper, cold mutton and tea thrust
on them before they dropped into barely-opened
swags and swift oblivion.
The first pale hint of daylight found Mac Andrew
and Dinny back at the ill-fated waterhole salvaging
as many more sheep as possible before the crows
picked their helpless eyes out. Bill, haggard and stiff,
joined young Mac in shepherding the mob out on
some sparse grass, and they camped that night only
a mile from the waterhole. The tail of the mob was
a sorry sight. The mud, mingling with the short wool,
dried and set like cement, and the unfortunate animals
dragged themselves along like run-down robots.
With the little town behind them, the grass
improved, and the effect on the sheep and horses
soon manifested itself. Just ahead of them lay the
desert, and Bill, stifling his surprise at drought-
stricken sheep being sent to a desert, painted pictures
in his imagination of palm-trees and long, wind-rippled
sandhills. Instead, the scattered timber drew closer
together. Gradually they found themselves, day after
day, passing through thick scrub with patches of rank
grass and big, green, spiky mounds of spinifex rising
like giant pincushions from the red soil. Anthills
of all shapes and sizes rose hard as concrete.
Mac Andrew returned from his daily scouting of
the track ahead and held a long conference with
Dinny. Then he circled round and checked the lead
while Dinny rode back to Bill on the tail of the
mob. “Take it easy! We’re going to spell them a
while. Patch of poison in front.”
“Poison”
“Heartleaf. I’ll show you when we hit it. We’ll
have to jamb the mob together and belt them through
without giving them a chance to feed.” He rode
on to warn young Mac.
That afternoon Mac Andrew returned with rein-
forcements —Reg the horsetailer and all the available
dogs. The sheep were reasonably full and contented,
and they were shepherded along into a compact mob.
Dinny pointed ahead with his whip. “As soon as
the lead hits that stony ridge, drive like hell! You’ll
see the poison bush growing there, but don’t stop
to look at it. Now . . . into them ! ”
The bang of Dinny’s whip was echoed by the
horsetailer’s, and Mac’s old dog started to yap
hoarsely at the laggards. The pace of the ,mob imper-
ceptibly quickened, and a chorus of shouts and yells
bunched them together and kept their attention from
feeding. They gained the ridge. There was ,an
uncanny impression of loathsomeness about the place.'
Except for the prevailing spinifex, the vegetation was
different from any they had seen. The bark of the trees
was of a sickly buff color, and the branches, dipped
and sprawled grotesquely. Bill saw an old ewe reach
out and nibble at the dark-veined, fleshy leaf of a
low scrub, when the peculiar heart-shape of the leaf
suddenly occurred to him, and he charged his startled
horse at the sheep and drove it into the mob. The
uproar continued, but the pace was telling on the
totterers at the tail. Bill dismounted to set a knocked-
up ewe on her feet; she staggered a few steps and
flopped again. Mac Andrew shouted from the wing,
“Never mind her. Keep the others going! WeTe
nearly out of it.”
The yellow-barked trees became fewer, finally dis-
appeared. A call went up from old Mac. “Right
oh! Take it easy!” They were through. Two sheep
died before they reached camp, and in the morning
three more lay stiff in the break.
“We got off light!” Dinny philosophically rolled
a breakfast cigarette. “A mob came through here
last year and lost four hundred on that patch. Any-
how, one more day and we’ll be rid of these cripples.”
The weather came up hot and sultry. That night
something woke Bill with a start, and as he lay
marshalling his wandering senses another big rain-
drop pinged on his cheek. Thunder muttered omin-
ously, and suddenly the sky was lit by a livid flash.
By its light he saw two men stooping over the break ;
behind them the sheep milled in ceaseless turmoil,
baa-ing a welcome to the approaching storm. Bill
pulled on his boots and joined Mac and Dinny at
the break. “Anything wrong?” he inquired.
“We’re only slacking off the rope before the rain
shrinks it and pulls the pegs out of the ground. WeTe
nearly finished. Better turn in . . . it’s going to rain
like hell.”
The air was heavy and still. Each vivid flash
of lightning showed up the tracery of trees and limbs
and leaves. The thunder drew closer, louder and
more menacing, but the stray raindrops still fell singly,
smacking flat on leaf and bough, and hitting the fire
with a venomous hiss. Dinny walked across and
stood over him, the end of his cigarette glowing red
in the darkness. “Better roll up your swag and put
it on the cart. You’ll get washed out in five minutes
where you are.”
Bill joined the others round the high-piled fire,
muzzy and sullen at losing his sleep. Old George
and the horsetailer still slept, under the protecting fly
of the waggonette. Then the heavens opened in
searing flame, crash upon deafening crash of thunder
shook the ground, and the rain hit them in a solid
sheet. ■ ;n , . ‘
Bill gasped. The rain came down with a force
that hurt. It penetrated his clothes in a matter of
seconds. Even his hat did not protect him ; he could
feel the rain seeping past the leather band, trickling
down the back of his neck to join the cataract that
ran down his spine and filled his boots to overflowing.
The fire crouched, cowed under the onslaught, spit-
ting and spluttering venomously at the drops that
tried to reach its glowing heart.
A horrible flow of language emanated from under
the cart, and presently two shivering, cursing indi-
viduals joined the group at the fire, driven out by
the water that was beginning to flow along the ground.
Dawn came slow and leaden, with every sign of the
rain continuing.
They plodded on all morning, cold, rain-sodden
and miserable as the sheep they were driving. These
would stop at every opportunity and stand shivering
—heads down, flanks drawn in and backs humped
like camels. Two horsemen in glistening oilskins
rode out of the dripping timber, and Dinny sighed
with heartfelt relief, “If we don’t get rid of these
damned sheep soon we’ll have none left to deliver.”
Another hour brought them to a fence and a
gateway staked to form a narrow opening. Mac,
Dinny and the strangers dismounted and posted them-
selves on the far side, while Bill and young Mac kept
the sheep up to the gate. They started to string
through the opening in a thin line, and at quick inter-
vals came the drover’s shout of “Hundred! ” while
Dinny’s tally rose steadily .. . “Eight!” .. . “Nine!”
and at each hundred his knife cut a notch in the stick
he carried. The mob dwindled till only the old stag-
gerers of the tail remained, pressing, jambing in the
narrow opening.
The last one stumbled through on groggy legs,
and Bill watched it join the untended mob dispersing
through the timber in the rain with a feeling of huge
relief. Now they could relax, the strain was off, and
they could sleep soundly at night without the ever-
present tension that brings the drover wide awake
in an instant.
There was a slight difference between Mac’s final
tally and the stranger’s, but the weather was not
conducive to argument, and they wasted no time in
striking a total. Then the elder stranger looked
genially round the morose little group, the rain drip-
ping from his heavy, reddish moustache.
“Come on up to the house, all of yez, and have
a feed and dry yersilves. It’s no sort of a day to
be sitting out in the scrub like a lot of wet emus!”
They fell gratefully in behind him, the horses
slithering and sinking in the sodden narrow track
that wound through the thick timber. At length a
small clearing opened before them, and a chorus of
barking greeted them from the buildings on the
opposite side, indistinct through the misty, driving
rain.
They pulled off their saddles and turned the un-
hobbled horses out in O’Brien’s paddock. Then as
they gathered on the back verandah, with the water
trickling from them and gathering in pools on the
earthen floor, the door opened and O’Brien was with
them again"—a big, hearty, red-faced, red-haired man
with a chest deep and thick as a bull . . . and a wicker-
covered demijohn under his arm.
“Come on, boys!” he called, “This’ll keep the
cold out!” He handed a pannikin to Mac Andrew
and the dark liquor gurgled out of the jar.
“Nelson’s blood . , . an’ if you want more water
than you’ve got already the tank’s running over.”
Dinny drank next and passed the pannikin to
Bill. The boy hesitated, then shook his head silently.
Dinny stared at him. “Don’t be silly! It won’t
hurt you.”
Bill refused again. “I—l promised once”
Dinny looked steadily at the wan, shivering figure,
and his tone was deliberate and caustic.
.. “And did you promise not to touch castor oil?
This is doctor’s orders ... and I’m the doctor! ” He
pushed the tin pannikin into Bill’s unwilling hand.
“Get it into you quick!”
The boy clamped his chattering teeth on a blue
lip, then with a sudden movement put the mug to
his mouth and gulped the dark fluid. Next instant
he was coughing, spluttering and gasping, the tears
starting into his eyes, while his chest burned as if
he had swallowed liquid fire.
O’Brien beamed on him from the doorway.
“Never be scared of good rum, lad. Make a
friend of it! And the way to keep your friends is
never to abuse them. Hello, here’s your plant. Get
into some dry clothes if you have them. If you
haven’t I’ll see what I’ve got; then we’ll have a feed.”
Bill felt a strange elation pervading his body.
His cheeks burned, his fingers, white and wrinkled
with cold and rain, began to tingle comfortably to
the tips, and a feeling of glorious warmth was steal-
ing to his numb toes. He squared his shoulders and
plunged into the rain after Mac to help unload the
mud-spattered waggonette. He felt uplifted—a con-
queror—what mattered rain or cold or discomfort
to him now!
They gathered round a big, solid table in the
kitchen with an open fireplace on one side throwing
out grateful warmth. O’Brien, brandishing a huge
carving-knife, sat at the top of the table. On his
right was his wife, a faded, middle-aged woman with
a patient expression, and on his left his daughter Eileen,
a big, buxom girl for her sixteen years. Tim, his son,
mingled with the drovers.
Bill found himself between Mrs. O’Brien and
Reg the horsetailer. He glanced down the table at
the others shuffling awkwardly to their seats ; there
were not chairs enough to go round, so some had to
sit on boxes. Old George sat hunched over a huge
plate of corned beef and pumpkin, shovelling the hot
food into his mouth and masticating loudly ; he still
wore his greasy old hat, and Bill, casting back in his
memory, could not recall having seen the cook with-
out his hat by night or day. There was no attempt
at conversation. Food was a vital, important thing,
and appreciation of it could be shown far more effec-
tively in silent concentration and by the amount one
ate than by any conventional remarks.
Bill, looking up suddenly, found a pair of wide
blue eyes fixed speculatively on him. His first view
of Eileen had not impressed him. Her straight, fair
hair was drawn back to a tight bun, and her face
was round, high cheekboned and expressionless as
a boiled pudding. They looked at one another for
a matter of seconds, then Bill essayed a polite smile.
But the magnifying power of rum refused to
acknowledge mere politeness and took a hand in the
shaping of that smile, with the result that Eileen
dimpled with disconcerting suddenness, and her beam-
ing response was an all-embracing thing—a regular
sunrise of a smile. Bill, somewhat embarrassed,
returned to the safer contemplation of his plate.
One after another the diners leaned back with
sighs of repletion, wiping their mouths with the backs
of their hands. O’Brien produced a plug of tobacco
and started to hack chips off it with a pocket-knife;
pipes were filled, cigarettes rolled, then tongues began
to loosen. The rain still drummed incessantly on the
roof, and the overflow from the tank splashed steadily.
WHAT THE STORY IS ABOUT.
Scene: On the track in Western
Queensland.
Characters:
“Bill” Muir (baptised Lancelot Ather-
ton, but not proud of it), a new chum,
who has joined up with
Mac Andrew, a sheep-drover.
Dinny, Mac’s right-hand man and
beau ideal of an Australian stockman.
Young Mac, 10-year-old son of
Mac Andrew, but as good as a man in .
everything but size.
Sundry cattle, sheep, dogs and horses,
Reg the horsetailer, and George the
cook.
In the opening instalment Bill received
his initiation into bush and droving life.
He is learning rapidly.


They were stormbound for three days. The men
camped in the cartshed, eating their meals in the
kitchen with the O’Briens, and as time began to hang
on their hands Mrs. O’Brien found the odd jobs that
had been put off and accumulating for years being
done. Travel was impossible ; every little gully carried
its torrent of muddy water to add to the rising creeks.
Eileen was making the most of a heaven-sent
opportunity. Young men there were in their isolated
district, but few came past O’Brien’s selection. She
wasted no time on old George. Mac Andrew was a
nice man but old, and little Mac. was too young to
be of interest. Dinny was a bit too quiet; she might
have persevered with him had he been alone, but
there were the other two boys. Reg. was all right for
a bit of fun,, but he was just a bit too saucy—used
to chasing about with these flash town girls—and
him thinking because a girl had lived all her life in
the bush she knew nothing.
So Eileen fluffed up her straight, fair hair and
wished it wouldn’t stick out in wisps at the neck. She
put the old worn hessian apron away out of sight
and wore the new one made out of a clean sugar-
bag, and in the evenings she appeared in a light print
frock. True it was getting a bit short and a bit tight,
but she liked it better than the black one.
Bill came as an entirely new type to her. He was
so nice-looking—like those men in the picture maga-
zines—his fair, reddish hair was so smooth and
nicely combed, and he spoke so differently from
anyone she had ever met. And
there was something at the back
of his eyes when he smiled at
you—something that sort of
kidded you on. Her dad reck-
oned at first he was a sissy, but
she knew he wasn’t. So she
smiled on Bill and Bill grinned
back. He was enjoying the
situation for various reasons.
Eileen was big-boned and
heavy in figure and speech—a
regular draught horse of a girl
—she spoke with a rough nasal
twang that made him wince at
times, while her technique had
a simple, natural directness and
total lack of sophistication that
could be distinctly embarrassing.
But, to balance all that, she was
the only girl he had met on
friendly terms for months, and
after the hardships of the past
few weeks the little comforts
and the feminine touch, bovine
though it might be, were most
acceptable.
Another reason was the vic-
tory he was scoring over Reg.
The horsetailer had waged a
determined but hopeless battle
for Eileen’s favor from the start,
and to find himself turned down
for the raw newchum he had
jeered at for weeks was the final
straw.
The gathering tension
cleared for a time when Mac-
Andrew returned from a diffi-
cult trip to a neighboring home-
stead where there was a tele-
phone and announced that the
rain had been general, the
drought was practically broken,
and, what was of more import
to them, he had accepted an
offer to take ten thousand sheep
down to New South Wales —an
800-mile trip.
Dinny and Mac talked half-
way into the night, discussing
routes, the obtaining of fresh
horses and more men. A final
two days were spent in getting
gear ready, making greenhide
hobbles and removing the shoes
f rom horses due for a suell
O’Brien yarded a mob of his
horses, and Mac and Dinny
went over to inspect them. They
did not take long to pick what
they wanted, but when it came
to bargaining O’Brien, true to
his ancestry, was prepared to spend an enjoy-
able day on it, or a week if they wanted it. When
Mac had bought half a dozen likely sorts O’Brien
drafted off a fine upstanding brown gelding. “How
did you come to miss that one?” he queried slyly.
Dinny shook his head. “Don’t want him, Mick.”
O’Brien exploded. “An what’s the matter with
him? The best young horse I’ve got on the place!”
“Look out he doesn’t run you up a tree one of
these days!”
“And for why?” O’Brien’s moustache quivered
with indignation.
“He’s blind in one eye, Mick.”
“Wha-at! Git a bridle, Tim, an’ I’ll show him
the liar he is.”
Mac moved closer to Dinny and spoke in an
undertone. “His eyes look all right to me.”
Dinny nodded calmly. “They might be . . .
but I don’t like the way he holds his head.”
Tim pursued the brown horse round the yard
a few times till he cornered it and slipped the bridle
on. O’Brien peered at the frightened horse’s eyes,
first one, then the other.
“Not a shpot on them,” he declared vehemently.
“As good as me own!”
Dinny took the bridle and ran a soothing hand
up the horse’s neck. Then he flicked a finger at the
near eye. The horse didn’t flinch. He handed the
bridle back to O’Brien and resumed his seat on the
rails.
“Have a good look at his near eye, Mick. There’s
no pupil in it.”
O’Brien peered closely, compared it with the
other eye, then stood back and slowly rubbed the
back of his neck.
“I take-back all I said, Dinny! An’ me gallop-
ing him through the scrub an’ over gullies these six
months . . . 1 Providence has been - kind to me!
Here, take him! You can have him or any one you
fancy.”
Dinny, shook his head. “Thanks, Mick, but I
don’t want him.”
“I saw your eye on that bay colt. Will you
take him?”
“He’ll be a trouble on the road, but he’s worth
it. Thanks, Mick! I’ll call him after you—even if
he isn’t a chestnut.”
Dinny' and Reg carried their saddles to the yard
and the others -lined the rails. Bill turned to find
Eileen climbing up beside him, and Reg, watching
from the ground, scowled and shortened his stirrup-
leathers a hcfie. Now he would show her who was
the better—him or a ginger-headed Pommy.
Dinny saddled a thickset black horse, Bill, on
the rails, watching every movement of horse and man.
Yet so quick and effortless was the man in mounting
that one moment he was fitting a toe into the near
stirrup, the next he was in the saddle. The black
whirled and bucked high, spinning and landing in the
His heel caught an obstacle and he fell in a heap.
same small circle all the time. Dinny sat unmoved
in the saddle till the black eased up, then at his
gesture the gate was thrown open, and he raced the
gelding out across the flat, throwing up clods of
drying mud all round him, but the black’s honor was
satisfied, and he cantered quietly back.
There was marked contrast between Dinny’s quiet
methods and Reg’s saddling of a chestnut with a
showy blaze. After a lot of loud objurgation and
fuss he gained the saddle ; the chestnut stood tense
and rigid for about three seconds, then shot high
in the air and came down with a nasty twist. His
first buck threw Reg forward, the next left him
gazing down the chestnut’s shoulder, another quick
twist and he hit the ground. He scrambled furiously
to his feet, cornered the chestnut and mounted again.
The next minute held a really good show. Reg rode
the horse from crupper to ears, but he rode him to
a standstill, and the applause from the rails salved
his wounded pride.
That last night, as they sat in a wide circle in
front of the open fireplace, O’Brien produced the
demijohn. “If you’re leaving in the morning it’s the
last one we’ll have for a while.” Bill, sitting in a
corner with Eileen, fingered the pannikin uncertainly
and sought Dinny’s eyes. He made no immediate
reply, but took Bill’s mug and poured a mere drop
of rum into it and a generous dash of water. The
cook and The horsetailer had no such scruples and
made the most of the opportunity.
They rose at length and filed out to their sleeping
quarters in the chill night air. Bill, the last to leave,
was greeted by a snarl from the horsetailer.
“Think you can put it over me, you young
bastard! ”
Mac Andrew, pulling off his boots, looked up as
a figure bounded past him. Out in the moonlight stood
the horsetailer, wearing a thin-lipped provocative sneer ;
Bill faced him, tense with passion, his eyes glittering
and the sensitive nostrils flaring.
“What did you call me?” he demanded between
his set teeth.
' Reg, stuck his face aggressively forward. “I called
you a ba” ——
He staggered back as a right and left landed
full in his face. Mac started to his feet to separate
them, but Bill was following up with a frenzy of wild
blows to face and body. His opponent, too surprised
to do more than vaguely guard the rain of punches,
kept on retreating till his heel caught an obstacle and
he fell in a heap. Bill drew back panting. The man
on the ground pulled himself together with a vindic-
tive glare, got suddenly to his feet and charged with
a rush.
He was Bill’s superior in weight, reach and years,
but the youth was in the grip of a fierce, concentrated
hate that ignored punishment and incited him to
persistent attack. His cheek was split and bleeding
freely, while one of the horsetailer’s eyes was closing
rapidly. They drew apart for a few seconds, panting
heavily and glaring at one an-
other, then they closed again in
a medley of flying fists and
came to the ground, indistin-
guishably locked together.
One figure scrambled to his
feet in the moonlight, glanced
at the motionless figure on the
groand, then slouched away to
the dim corner of the shed
where old George sat huddled
in his blankets peering stupidly
with his one good eye. Mac
trickled cold water on the face
of the fallen combatant till he
stirred, blinked, then with
Dinny’s help he took him to the
water-tank and laved the bruised
face.
“You shouldn’t take any
notice of a man that’s got a few
drinks in,” Mac advised.
Bill gulped. “Drunk or not,
I won’t stand being called —
what he called me.”
Dinny wrinkled his brows
in puzzled thought. “But he
only called you a bastard . . .
and anyone’s likely to do that.
Man! ” he went on reminis-
cently, “if 1 had a quid for
every time I’ve been called one
I could retire and live in luxury.
What’s more, you know just
where you are with that sort of
bloke —that’s more than you can
say about some of them smooth,
psalm-singing coots you meet in
town.”
Bill mopped his face with
a bloodstained towel and turned
doggedly away. “I don’t care!
That’s one thing they won’t call
me.”
Dinny meditatively eyed
the retreating figure, then looked
across at Mac. “I wonder”
he began, and stopped.
Mac’s broad shoulders
shrugged faintly.
Chapter IV.
ON the top of the ridge Bill
turned in the saddle and
looked back. Half a mile
away the second mob spread
peacefully out among the grace-
ful tracery of boree and the
denser, sombre gidya. Behind
them again the last mob was
pouring over a pine ridge like
a great white cloud against the
ę
ě


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE,
BRAN BALER'S
ns
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BIi.ANDi.UEU It CO.. LtA. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingellp House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
This Love Business Is Catching!
3 HOUSES
BY A.C.HEADLEY
SKETCHES
By UNK WHITH.
BY the time Skinny began sticking
sunflowers in the empty milk-bottles
and giving up his seat in trams he
was as near the final stages as makes
no difference ; and he’d even cut down
on his swearing so that it was only one
word in three.
But it was only when he knocked back
my invitation to visit the local pub one
afternoon that I began to get worried.
It wasn’t actually the thing itself, mind
you, but the way he said it. What does
he do but stand there and start talking
about promiscuous drinking. His
Adam’s apple was about as still as a
spirit-level in the hands of a drunken
carpenter. And there he was asking me
whether I didn’t think it was wrong.
“Sure, it’s wrong,” said I; “did you
ever know of anything worth doing that
wasn’t?”
And it took me the best part of three
minutes to convince him that by drink-
ing his share of the beer he was saving
it from the lips of those less able to
stand it than himself. Skinny stopped
fussing around with a sunflower and
grinned.
“I only hope,” he said, “that Emily
will see the matter in the same light.”
That straightened me up right away.
“Emily!” I yelped, “and who the hell
is Emily when she’s at home?”
“I’ll thank you,” said
Skinny, looking as digni-
fied as possible, which
isn’t much, “to moderate
your language when you
talk about Miss Pin-
combe.”
I felt like bashing him
on the pink ear,
“So that’s the way it
is?”
“That’s the way it is,”
said Skinny, very low;
“and I have every inten-
tion of asking her to
marry me.” He looked
kind of sad and thought-
ful then. ‘“She’s a lovely
woman, Scut,” he said —
“you’d like her.”
“How long has this been
going on?” I hollered at
him after a bit, feeling as
if I’d swallowed a quart
of whisky without taking
my mouth away from the bottle.
“She loves me not,” said Skinny, look-
ing sadder than ever and reaching out
for another sunflower; “I wish these
was lilies.”
“Listen,” I said, grabbing him by
the arm, “tell me it ain’t true. Tell me
A bad case.
you took the money that was hid behind
the clock and blewed it on drink. Maybe
your brain is clouded. Maybe your
senses are reeling.”
Skinny’s eyebrows climbed so high
that they looked like the part in his
hair, while his chin tucked itself away
back behind his ear.
“We ain’t got no clock,” he said, “an’
I’ve begun to forget what money looks
like.” It just showed how numb his
brains were.
“Listen,” I said, “the same place where
you got the one about strong drink bein’
wrong says something about confession
bein’ good for the soul. Tell your uncle
all about it. There ain’t no secret you’d
want to keep from the friend of your
bosom.”
“Asps go with bosoms,” said Skinny—
“that’s in the Bible.”
Right then it was all I could do to
stop myself from shaking hands with
his throat.
“Who,” said I, “is Miss Pincombe?”
“I’m going to marry her,” said Skinny,
as though that explained everything, “if
she’ll have me.”
I was a good example then of mother
trying to find out from young Jimmy
what he’d done with the change from
the lamb’s fry. The way Skinny had
said the bit about getting married had
given me an empty feeling
in the stomach.
“How much coin put
that idea into your head?”
I asked him.
Skinny drew himself
up.
“Worldly compensations
or considerations,” he said,
“don’t make no appeal to
me. I love Emily. Ain't
you never felt that way
about some woman?”
“Listen, Skinny,” I said,
“that’s the way I feel
about every woman. That’s
the way millions of fellers
have felt about some
woman ; an’ what’s it get
them —one and tenpence a
week for tobacco money!
What happens when you
get married anyway? You
trade-in fifty of your best
friends for one boss.
It ain’t right. It ain’t like you. Skinny.
Take your time. Think it over. You
ain’t forgot Rosie Tattershall?”
I could see a lot of painful expres-
sions digging themselves into Skinny’s
face. There was a lot about Rosie
Tattershall for him to remember.
It was about three years ago that
Rosie happened. I hadn’t .been knock-
ing around with Skinny long then.
Rosie was a barmaid at the Royal Crest,
and Skinny spent a lot of time trying
to tell a jury that he hadn’t ever wanted
to marry her. The trouble was that she
had it down in writing for the Judge
to make funny remarks about, with
Skinny’s name at the bottom, surrounded
by so many kisses that it looked as if
he’d been writing on the star-spangled
banner. About two quid a kiss it cost
him.
Skinny looked at me.
“I ain’t got nothin’ to lose this time,”
he said ; “Emily collects the rent from
three houses. And, anyway, 1 ain’t writ
no letters.”
“She told you, I suppose,” said I,
“about the houses, I mean?”
“O’ course,” said Skinny.
“Well, listen,” said I. “I’m the king
of China, disguised as Clark Gable, and
in my hip-pocket I’ve got the Cooee-
noor diamond.”
“I didn’t think of that,” said Skinny ;
“anyway, I ain’t wrote no letters yet.”
“What’s happened to your worldly
considerations?” said I. “You’d better
tell me everything.”
Skinny told me. At the end he said:
“She calls me Sparrow. It’s a kind of
pet name.”
“The Society for the Preservation of
Wild Life should hear about it,” said I.
I WAS thinking over what he’d told
me, and it looked as though I had to
exert myself if I wanted to save him
from what mill-girls’ romance-writers
call a fate worse than death.
Well, he’d told me where she lived,
so I took the first chance I could of
taking a bo-peep at this Miss Pincombe ;
and right from the first it surprised me
that a woman like that would have had
anything to do with Skinny at all. She
was everything that Skinny said she
was. She had the kind of hair, all soft
and silky, that can’t seem to make up its
Her grey eyes.
mind; it was
blondie and dark
at the same time.
If you ask me, she
was good quality
i n everything.
She give you the
feeling that she
was just what the
doctor ordered.
And the first
thing I said settled
the question about the houses being
dinkum.
“I’m buying house property,” said I,
“and your name was mentioned to me.”
She smiled right then and held the
door back for me ; and in about two
minutes I was fixed up on the sofa and
talking like a real-estate agent. Would
you believe it, there was afternoon-tea,
too. Can you imagine me sitting there
sipping at a cup of tea served up in an
eggshell and beginning to think that
maybe Skinny was right about the strong
drink. It was funny; that was the way
she got me even that soon. When I left
it wasn’t about houses I was thinking,
but about something that had eyes and
lips and soft hair all tangled up together.
I was begining to see Skinny’s point of
view.
Mind you, Skinny didn’t know noth-
ing about this little trip of mine. I
thought it might be better if I saved
him in secret.
When I got back he was there waiting
to jump down my neck with what he
called an idea.
“I got it!” he yelled into my ear. “I
can write to Emily. I can write to her
without lettin’ myself in for anything.
Then—if it ain’t true about the
houses” He stood there and
shrugged his half-size shoulders.
“What do you want to write for at
all?” I asked. “That’s what put you on
the slab with Rosie Tattershall.”
Skinny lifted a corner of the lino, with
his foot.
Her filmy eyes.
“That’s the funny
part,” he said. “I
can’t never say the
things I want to
when I’m with her.”
“F un n y’s the
word for it,” said I.
“Anyway, what’s
this great idea of
yours?”
Skinny grinned.
“You,” he said,
“can write the letters.”
“That,” said I, “is very nice to know.”
“I knew you’d like it,” said Skinny.
“It’s easy, too. She ain’t never seen my
writin’, and if anything happens —like
the houses—they won’t be able to sheet
no more breach of promises on to me.”
“Very clever,” said I. “Why don’t you
try the three-card trick sometime? Even
a numskull like you should be able to
figure out how long it would take them
to work that one out. She could live for
the rest of her life on the money the
jury’d consider worth losing you.”
“Wouldn’t she have to prove that she
hadn’t got someone to write them for
her?” Skinny wanted to know.
I hadn’t thought of it in that light, and
now I took a look at Skinny, all puffed
up with the thought of how good his
idea was.
“Maybe,” I said after a bit, “the idea
is all right; but not with me in it. Don’t
I live with you? Wouldn’t they want to
know what my writing was like?”
For a few seconds Skinny looked
thoughtful; then he brightened up a bit.
“There’s Piggot,” he said ; “he owes
me a fiver. I’ll bet he’d do it for me.”
He looked thoughtful again for a
moment then. “I wish I knew about the
houses, though,” he said. “I’d be game
to do me own writing then. That’s the
trouble—you can’t trust women,”
I COULD have told him that he could
trust Miss Pincombe, at least so far
as the houses were concerned ; but I had
a lot of reasons why I didn’t want Skinny
to strangle himself in the holy bonds of
matrimony. Besides, I’d been thinking
a lot about those three houses myself.
I was beginning to think of them in con-
nection with my own future. It wasn’t
the houses entirely, either. I could still
taste hot buttered scones in my mouth
occasionally, while sometimes I was
almost too scared to shut my hand for
fear of breaking the cup that wasn’t
there. That was the way Miss Pincombe
made me feel; but I couldn’t see no
sense in telling Skinny about it.
“All right,” said
I, “go to him. Buy
a pen and ink and
show him your
idea of a good
time. And don’t
expect any sym-
pathy from me.”
Skinny ducked
out, while I sat on
the end of the bed
to look at the sun-
Her brown eyes.
set and wonder why I hadn’t led i
better life.
He drifted back in about half an hour.


HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“SUNDAY,”
by
JEAN IRWIN.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
IHE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
(Tllfeilto
W" '%*’
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
econds out
Linger a little more lovingly over the marma-
lade in the morning. Look a little more leisurely
at the morning’s news. You’ll still have time
to catch your train, provided you have used a
* Valet’ Shaving Set —the original self-stropping
razor which knocks so many valuable seconds
out of shaving time. Stropped in a few seconds.
Cleaned in a few seconds. Nothing to take to
pieces. Nothing to unscrew. Weeks of perfect
shaving from every blade.
r
i
m
The Set illustrated is the No. 5 6 Com-
panion Set. In black folding case. Con-
tains self-stropping 'Valet’ Razor, strop
and five blades also two tubes containing
'Valet’ shaving brush and stick of shaving
soap, 20/-.
Other sets from 4/6 to 65/-.
Of all dealers. British made.
VALET
* AatosStoap
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
“I done it,” he said. “Piggy’ll do it
all right, I gotta let him off the fiver
an’ give him two bob a letter.” He was
all excited. “It ain’t even forgery,
neither. His first name’s the same as
mine. An’ there ain’t nothin’ he don’t
know, now. I told him everything. All
’bout the houses an’ how brown her eyes
was.”
“Grey,” said I.
Skinny stared at me.
“How do you know?” he said, looking
at me with a queer look in his eyes.
I had to swallow pretty quick. “I just
guessed,” I said. “You’re the type to
match with grey eyes.”
“If I knew what you meant,” said
Skinny, “I’d probably sock you one.”
“What’s Piggot think of it?” I asked.
Skinny just grinned,
“He ain’t paid to think. He’s too thick
in the skull, anyway. I’m letting him off
the fiver an’ he gets two bob a letter.”
Well, there it was. Skinny going
around like a lost sheep and plucking at
sunflowers in his worse moments. He
even asked me if you could rhyme “love”
with “move.” He must have liked Emily
a good bit, even
without the thought
of the houses to
back him up. One
thing I noticed,
though: he didn’t
have much to say
about Miss Pin-
combe’s feelings to-
wards himself.
The next after-
noon I went back to
discuss property
values again. Right
then the way she
smiled when she
opened the door gave
Pacing the bathroom.
me the idea that maybe Skinny
was deceiving himself about the state
of her affections. If you ask me,
you can always tell when a woman’s in
love with someone and he ain’t present;
she didn’t look that way at all. After
I’d been there about half an hour, talk-
ing real estate, I gave her a soft kind of
look.
“Did anyone,” I said, “ever tell you
how beautiful you were?”
She looked at me in a funny way for
a bit, and then I saw that her eyes, too,
had gone pretty filmy.
“That’s very nice of you,” she said.
Right from then one thing began to
lead to another. I can give Skinny two
laps’ start when it comes to this kind of
thing. I could see his grip on the houses
slipping clean away. Mind you, I didn’t
hurry things too much with her. She
was the kind that likes it to happen
slow ; the kind that wakes up sudden and
thinks it comes as a wonderful surprise
after you’ve been squeezing hands for
about ten years. That was the way I
figured her out, anyway.
The next night Skinny brought Piggot
around so they could get together
over the first letter. Skinny was a bit
surprised when he found I wasn’t so
helpful as he’d expected. Even so, that
letter was a* pretty good job. If I’d
thought Emily was a woman to be lightly
swayed, I might have been a bit worried.
Even Piggot was a bit proud of it.
“Well,” I said when Skinny had gone
out to post it, “what do you think of
him?”
He was a little chap, about as mild-
looking as a fillet of flathead. He
summed it all up in a sentence:
“She’s got three houses, hasn’t she?”
“Four,” said I; “she owns the one she
lives in.”
A BOUT a week later Skinny was say-
** ing to me: “I don’t know what’s
wrong. She ain’t answered the letter
yet.”
“Maybe she’s busy,” said I.
“I. don’t know what it is,” said Skinny.
“I ain’t even seen her for a long time.
She’s out every night I seem to call.”
I could have accounted for two of
the nights ; but I didn’t tell him.
“She might be visitin’ a sick relation,”
said I, trying to cheer him up.
Skinny shook his head.
“I can’t stand the suspense,” he said,
as though he’d made a great decision.
“I’m going to ask her to marry me. I’ll
go and see Piggot.”
“You’re mad,” I told him, amongst a
lot of other things. Not that I was
worrying very much. I was getting pretty
popular with Miss Pincombe. She’d
asked me to a church social; that was
more than she’d ever done to Skinny.
Well, he went off round to Piggot’s
to prepare the letter, and about nine
o’clock he came back with a satisfied
grin spreading all over his face.
“I done it,” he said.
I didn’t sleep too much that night, and
by the morning I’ll bet I must have been
feeling about as anxious as Skinny. I
knew he’d have to wait for the afternoon
post for his letter, but I couldn’t. I got
up with the feeling that I ought to find
out how the land lay. I’d left Skinny
walking up and down in the bathroom.
Emily opened the door almost as soon
as I knocked ; and the first look I took
sent my stocks way down past zero. You
remember what I said about how you
could always tell when a woman was
worrying over some man? That’s how
she was then —a kind of blurry pretti-
ness. Right then it looked as though
my plans for saving
Skinny had gone
cockeyed. Maybe,
I was beginning to
think, he might give
me the job of col-
lecting the rents for
the houses.
She didn’t even
wait for me to get
settled before she
burst out with the
glad tidings of great
joy.
“I’m going to be
married,” she said.
I tried to look sur-
prised, and said:
“I hope you’ll be happy.”
Right then I wasn’t feeling any too
happy myself. I couldn’t get used to the
idea that Skinny had beat me. I felt
there was more in it than met the eye.
She went on telling me how wonderful
it all was.
“When did it happen?” said I.
She looked a bit doubtful.
“It all happened so sudden,” she said ;
“not like I would have expected at all.
Edward is so shy. What do you think!
He had to write me a letter asking me
to marry him.” She sighed. “Oh, what
wonderful letters he writes! He’s sent
me one every day for over a week. I’ve
not known him for very long, but I’m
sure I’m going to be wonderfully
happy.”
“How many letters did you say?” said
I. It looked as though Skinny was keep-
ing something under his hat.
“Nine,” said Miss Pincombe, giving me
a look.
“The dirty liar!” I said, meaning
Skinny ; but she didn’t hear me.
She was just prattling on about how
wonderful he was.
“It’ll seem funny,” she said, “getting
used to a different name, and being
called Mrs.”
“Yeah,” I said, thinking that it’d be
just as hard for Skinny to get used to
being called Edward.
“Yes,” she said, “it’ll be funny getting
used to everyone calling me Mrs. Piggot.
How does it sound?”
“Mrs. who?” I yelled.
“Mrs. Piggot,” she answered. “That’s
the name of my future husband —Piggot,
Edward Piggot.”
Song.
Call unto the windblown throng
With yellow trumpet, curling song,
And call their eyes that they may see
Dew-heavy woods that cover thee,
And smell the scent of cumbering mould,
Of trodden greenness long gone old,
And feel the dew chill past belief
That beads upon this newer leaf.
No stars shall follow where you go,
For heroes head for darkness now
And all the brightest swords of mind
Shall chip upon the trees they find.
Oh, peal your call so solemnly
That sun-drugged men may know
The beauties that in dimness be,
And then see who shall follow thee.
VICTORIA.
A. C. JACKSON.


è
BACKACHE
WHY ENDURE THIS AGONY WHEN A SURE,
SIMPLE AND SAFE REMEDY IS AT HAND
When yon reach the stage where pain compels
you to say : —“ I must get rid of this backache I ”
you will commence taking De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and then, in a very short time, your
pain will disappear.
Naturally it would be better it you took De Witt’s
Pills as soon as
THE FIRST STAB OF PAIN
came to warn you, but many people make the same
mistake. They do not realise the serious nature of
Backache and so they wait, hoping the pain will
go away, or try various methods of treatment
which may give temporary relief. This cannot go
on for long. Soon the time comes when backache
compels you to neglect or give up your work. Life
is a mockery when you are always in pain, but
De Witt’s Kadney and Bladder Pills will drive the
pain away and they will also protect you against
future attacks.
Read how successful De Witt’s Pills proved in
Mrs. Edmiston’s case and perhaps her experience
will persuade you to give them a trial.
Writing from “Gwen Villa,” William Street,
South Brisbane, Mrs. A. Edmiston says :
" I used to suffer terribly with backache and,
although I tried one thing after another, I
could not get lasting relief. The pain got
worse and worse until a friend induced me to
try De Witts Kidney and Bladder Pills. These
gave me ease at once. A nyone who has suffered
as / have will understand how grateful I am."
A point you will appreciate about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills is the fact that they give
almost instant relief. You may have endured agony
all day and you feel that unless you get rid of the
pain you will not be able to endure another day.
Put your faith in De Witt’s Pills. They will not
fail you. Get a box from the chemists to-day, price
3/6 and 6/6. Sold only in the white, blue and gold
boxes. Take two just before you go to bed and m
the morning your pain will be gone.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills discolouration of the urine will prove
that they have commenced their good work. You
will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients of De Witt’s Pills
have passed through your kidneys and your bladder.
No other medicine furnishes proof like this, and
once you have tried them your one regret will be»
that you did not do so before. Take De Witt’s
Pills for Scalding Pains, Gravel, Stone , Painful
Joints, Stiffness, Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica. Give them to children subject
to Bed-wetting, and to aged persons afflicted by
Urinary Disorders, and in every case they will
give prompt relief. Many thousands of suffering
men, women and children in all parts
of the world have already proved
this, but the best proof of all can
can be obtained by a
personal trial in your
own case.
De WITT’S
KIDNEY and BLADDER PILLS
7M
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC."ACID
Jorrocks Would Have Liked This Yarn: —
THE OLD MASTER
By
E.MARY
GURNEY.
NO one but old Hendrick himself,
jogging along close to hounds, knew
that it was his eighty-third birthday.
On the roadway behind him was the
staccato clatter of the hoofs of half a
hundred horses, the continuous buzz of
half a hundred tongues, but old Hen-
drick rode with his sombre gaze staring
between his horse’s ears at the waving
sterns and pied bodies of the hounds, and
spoke to no one ; not even to Swan, the
huntsman, who rode beside him, smiling
pleasantly and a little vacantly at nothing
in particular.
Once or twice he glanced covertly at
the master, but Hendrick continued to
ignore him.
The young spring sun was warm on
the back of his weathered tailcoat that
had faded through the vicissitudes of
half a dozen seasons from red to a
shabby pink; glinted on the back of
Sussex, his mare, at whom young blood
smiled covertly, so clever she was, so
cautious and careful, as though she
realised that her rider was brittle and
sluggish with years.
But tailing hounds down the road on
this the last meet of the season, the
warmth of the spring day went to her
head, and set up an itching in her round,
tarred hoofs. She switched her tail and
passaged slightly, and old Hendrick,
jarred out of his reverie, jerked the bit
peevishly and swore under his breath.
Swan, half a length behind him, winked
solemnly at young Pinner, the whip, who
winked back and
flicked the lash of
his whip at a dila-
tory hound.
But old Hen-
drick, huddled in
his saddle, stared
ahead, dim - eyed
and resentful.
The ribbon of
the road went out
before him; and
he would never
know what lay at
the end of it.
He hated it and
the stupid eager
hounds, snuffling in
the hedge rows.
Hated the haw-
thorn and the
honeysuckle and
the roses that
twined among the
may ; and the riot
of the gorse hedges
that went up slowly with the slow rise and
fall of the downs. Hated the sombre
green loveliness of the little islands of
bush, with the light-green spread of
pungas that filled the narrow gullies.
Hated Swan, who was smug, and would
ride a score of years yet, in his sweaty
coat. Hated Pinner, who was young and
happy, on a white horse.
Pinner had a raucous voice and was
reckless with the recklessness of youth
that is lacking in imagination . . . Pinner
was eighteen.
Eighty-three to-day; and it’s kissing
time when the gorse is in flower. But
no one would want to kiss him ever
again ; not even the girls who did not
care whom they kissed—at a price—and
the fools behind him, with their high-
pitched, senseless chatter, were specula-
ting, he knew . . . wondering who would
take hounds over next season . . . bet-
ting each other that he couldn’t last an-
other year. They’d been making those
bets for twenty years now . . . and season
after season he’d disappointed them . . .
come back as good as ever . , . and he
would again . . .
Every year they knew that, of course,
he must be a year older ; but they did
not know that he was eighty-three to-day.
If they’d known that, they would have
made a fuss of him —mobbed him with
slick, insincere greetings, covertly pity-
ing, openly condescending, with the mad-
dening, insulting condescension that
youth has for age.
Pinner lifted his voice, raucous and dis-
cordant with the lustiness of his youth,
chiding a hound, and Swan wound a
spluttering, ineffectual note on his horn.
Pinner opened a gate between high
hawthorn hedges, whose starry flowers
dusted with white petals the shoulders of
his new red coat.
Hounds packed through, whining with
eagerness, and the hunt filed after them
with a muffled drumming of hoofs. The
riders, bowing beneath the hawthorn
spray, dislodged white petals that flut-
tered down and settled on the shining
quarters of the horses ; whirled away in
gay little drifts like tiny snowflakes or
clouds of miniature white butterflies.
THROUGH the gate, Hendrick pulled
the mare to one side and loweringly
watched the hunt pass, not ignoring
greetings but acknowledging them with
a whip salute that was as curtly un-
gracious as his mood . . . Young cubs all
of them. Cocksure. Hot-blooded . . ,
While in his own veins was a coldness
—an awareness of defeat and the close
crowding of death . , .
The last man through whirled his
horse to shut the gate, and his head and
shoulders dislodged a cloud of petals that
drifted flatteringly and enveloped Hen-
drick and his mare —like confetti.
Savagely he twisted the mare and fell
in behind the last horse.
Confetti! Fleetingly he was a bride-
groom again . . . and Marion had been
in her grave a score of years . . .
He tailed the hunt across a wide green
paddock that rose softly to a thin hedge,
laced with wire. In a gap were saplings
above the thin, shining strands.
Hounds streamed over and under and
through it, yabbering and whining.
Pinner cried them through, lashing the
stern of the last of them, so that she
howled dolorously. Hendrick recognised
the voice of the old bitch Feather, who
had whelped half the pack, and was
nearly blind and wholly senile in all
things but the lifting of a cold scent.
In Hendrick’s heart the thin yelp found
an echo. Young cub, Pinner, without
compassion or respect for old age. He
would remember that yelp in his account
against Pinner’s youth . , .
Swan, who should have known better,
whooped his thick-set cob over the
sapling, and Pinner crowded on his heels,
white horse, red coat dazzling in the
sun . . . youth, in a shimmering splendor
that would not pass away.
The hunt went over, decorously at
first, one at a time, then faster, in twos
and threes, and little, dangerous, heart-
thrilling mobs of four and five . . .
crowding the sapling . . . jumping rag-
gedly, some going too close, some stand-
ing off dangerously, but none caring that
death sat their saddle bows.
They were half-way across the next
paddock before Hendrick let the fret-
ting mare go. He held her hard, making
her take the jump slowly, to the slow
rhythm of his blood that was running
down.
The mare loped over deliberately,
swinging her hind quarters expertly, fret-
ting a little at the curbing of her power,
yet seeming to sense the slow beat of
his pulse, the cold thinning of his blood.
Hounds found suddenly, and went
away fast, yammering, only to swing
back and fault, and lose their hare in
the paddock where they had found.
Hendrick, who had not left it, cursed
Swan in a low undertone that brought
the blood to the huntsman’s face ; but
passing Pinner, he grinned a little, and
winked, and his voice, indiscreetly clear,
was heard by half the field.
“Old Bloke’s got the wind up a treat
to-day, Tommy! Better watch out!”
There were covert sniggers—smiles
and low-toned comments, and Pinner’s
lash found old Feather’s stern. With her
nose to a cold scent her yelp was a giv-
ing of tongue, and the pack went away
again in full cry, with the hunt hot on
its heels.
Hendrick held the mare back, listen-
ing to the swing right, swing left of the
running hounds he could not see.
For a space the wafted cry veered un-
certainly, then swung definitely left, and
Hendrick headed the mare down the
paddock, letting her have her head.
She snorted, reefing a little with eager-
ness, and Hendrick raked her with the
hooks, and fetched her a clout with his
whip.
Over a low hedge at the bottom of the
field they came up with hounds,
straggling out on a hot scent. Far in
their rear old Feather labored, stern
flagging, tongue lolling, but fighting on
with unexpected gameness. Every now
and then she gave tongue feebly.
Hendrick went over the hedge and
ditch and pulled up, sitting the fretting
mare, and watching the field come over.
A raggy field on raggy, tatterdemalion
horses that, in this country where hares


and
may c w liffTT
H
TOOTH p * e
... is judged ° s of
Srf cont«b»«« ‘ - d ec«
iootb decay- be lt t £ ootb enameb
germs
*o*h.2J"S.
bs°d> s ,.' { To te-
,sor b V** To te '
must
X w
liiii
"W A Tfe ’lf' "’ll M~ < -g
When rILM may lead
to all three
remove film this special way
Don’t fool yourself about film! It can be the forerunner of one or all of the
troubles pictured above.
"But in removing film, why use one dentifrice rather than another?” you may
ask. On that point, too, you need have no doubts. Many tooth pastes and
tooth powders may claim to attack film. Pepsodent’s sole duty is to REMOVE
FILM —and to keep film off teeth safely. To both the dental profession and
the public alike, Pepsodent is known as the "special film-removing tooth paste.”
Common sense reason for effectiveness and safety
You know about that sticky coating that constantly forms on your teeth. Dental
authorities agree that this stubborn coating, which we call film, should be removed
daily. And now, in Pepsodent, is a revolutionary cleansing and polishing material,
recently developed. This material is unexcelled in. film-removing power. No
other leading dentifrice contains it. And is it safe? So safe that in impartial
tests Pepsodent has been proved the least abrasive . . . there-
-1 1 fore softest —of 15 leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders.
So, between visits to your dentist, remove ugly, dangerous
film daily with Pepsodent. No grit in Pepsodent. No risk
of harming precious enamel as with mere "bargain” ways.
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have
cut costs, and we
are passing the sav-
ing on to you.
The identical time-
proved Pepsodcnt is
ready for you, in the
new larger tubes, at
no increase in price.
N 1 365
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
ran in an everlasting circle, could live
with harriers.
One or two of them tipped over. One
or two baulked.
Someone shouted, and a hound yelled
dismally. Old Feather, toiling in the
ruck, and ridden down.
Hendrick walked his mare across the
jump and glowered speechlessly.
Feather stood up, with her forepaws
on the jump, whining and making abor-
tive efforts to scramble over. Someone
laughed. One or two riders pulled out
and went over the hedge, sweeping away
at a hand gallop, but a boy on a chest-
nut cob dismounted and flashed white
teeth from a dark, laughing face as he
hoisted the old bitch over.
Hendrick gestured infinitesimally with
his whip, and rode after the ancient
hound, who whined at every step.
The boy put his cob at the sapling and
went by. He was flushed a little, but
tossed Hendrick a fleeting smile tinged
with unconscious pity . . . youth, making
allowances for the ungraciousness of
age . . .
HALF a field away, hounds went up the
long, slow face of a hill. On the crest
they checked, scattered, sterns waving in-
consequently, pied flanks gleaming under
the sun ; were gone in a mellow-voiced
wave, into the nothingness of the hidden
slope beyond.
Pinner, on the spidery white, sailed
over the trimmed hedge at the foot of
the hill, and went rocketing up the slope,
with Swan’s cob laboring ten lengths
behind.
Good lad, Pinner, thought Hendrick,
with dim wistfulness. A lad after his
own heart. Keen and gay and zestfully
reckless; but time Would slow him
down , . . cool him down. Time, the
bitch, tempered everything—dulled it,
took the sting out of it; took the edge
off all appetite.
Now the face of the hill was a flurry
of life again ; horses of every color and
shape—fat cobs bucketing, nondescripts
laboring, Watty Remarque’s blood horse
skimming it like a swallow.
The last of them seemed to poise
for a second on the hill’s edge, then
for a space it was empty, with the gold
of the sunlight marking the faint wind
ripples in the grass.
Then the hare came back over the hill.
It ran in great bounds, but straight.
At the foot of the hill it swerved
along the hedge, and slipped through,
close to where Hendrick waited.
Beside him Feather squatted on her
haunches, scratching.
Not ten yards distant, the pop-eyed
hare fled by.
Hendrick waited, scowling at the hill,
but from beyond it came no burst of
hound music.
Ten seconds. Twenty, thirty . . .
Hendrick swore luridly but weakly,
without fulness or heat. Even in his
own ears the words were foul with a
little nastiness; querulously peevish,
without any of the robust lustiness that
might have redeemed them.
He snaked the thong of his whip out,
and nicked a sliver of hide from the
flank of the scratching hound, who flung
herself stiffly aside, yipping with her
age-thin misery.
Hendrick spoke to her harshly, hating
the echoing inadequacy of his own voice.
But at sound of it, the old bitch forgot
her fleas and her misery, and began to
whine as she cast in small, wavering
circles.
Half-blind and more than half-deaf,
she answered his angry summons, and
presently laid her muzzle to the warm
scent. In a second the silent fields were
awake to the husky clamor of her
triumph.
Then she yelled again as Hendrick
whipped her off the back scent.
Too old, by God!
A man and a horse and a dog were
never too old—unless they were yellow
... as Swan, damn his soul, had hinted
that he was yellow . . .
They laughed at him, whose burden
of years made him too stiff to ride his
fences , . . Laughed, as though age was
a joke . . . like feeding sandwiches to
old Feather, or sugar to Sussex, who
fattened on the oats that should have
kept her hard.
Too old, by God!
He’d show ’em!
But if the old hound’s scent was still
keen, her lungs and her legs were long
gone.
She plodded gamely enough over the
first field, but over the second her en-
thusiasm waned, and at sight of the thick
gorse hedge, through which she must
fight a way, she gave it up, and sat
down to scratch ; having vision, maybe,
of the rest she had long since earned .
of a never-failing supply of bones, and
an undisputed place in the sun.
Hendrick’s lash found her, and once
again she howled dismally; and went to
earth in a culvert under a gate.
Old Hendrick sat glowering with dis-
belief, and the hunt swept suddenly out
of nowhere, passing him with the swift
unreality of dreams, but the wild scurry
of hoofs was too much for Sussex. Age
might crowd her saddle, but she was
shod with wings. Under her the turf was
vibrant with the beat of flying hoofs.
She reared suddenly, snorting like a
colt at play, bringing Hendrick back to
earthly things.
Jerking the mare back to hand, he
saw Bing Soames, a mere boy of seventy-
odd, fiddling with the catch of the gate
above the culvert where Feather had
taken refuge.
Hendrick grinned sourly, and was
filled with a sudden, inexplicable rage ;
as though Soames deliberately trampled
hounds. He called inarticulately, but
Soames did not hear. Hendrick jambed
his cap down, swinging the mare and
cramming her, without giving her room
for a take off, at the high hedge and
ditch.
Unable to gather herself, the mare
baulked and floundered into the ditch.
Through the gate, Soames sniggered.
Sussex scrambled out of the ditch,
reefing and expecting trouble, but Hen-
drick leaned forward and patted her
sweaty neck, speaking to her soothingly ;
and was conscious as he did so that he
was a better man than Soames.
Soames lived on memories of past
prowess, and teased his mounts with the
spurs ; but no one was deceived into the
belief that they were fiery.
Hendrick took the mare back from
the hedge, and this time, expecting it,
she jumped wide and free.
As she went up, opening out beneath
him as she had not reached out in years,
Hendrick had a queer, sick feeling at the
pit of his stomach, and knew that he was
afraid. It seemed to him that his joints
creaked, and he sat stiffly, dreading the
jar of landing. But the mare kissed earth
light as a butterfly alighting on a flower,
and went away over the paddock, pull-
ing steadily, and snorting a little, as
though the swift gold glamor of the
spring had gone to her middle-aged
head.
She skimmed a sapling, and overhauled
the tail of the hunt, going through it like
a yacht through a fleet of becalmed
barges; came suddenly on the van of it,
pulled up against a wide bramble-and-
bracken-grown wall of scoria that
dropped away steeply on the far side.
Hendrick checked the excited mare,
and found himself beside Watty
Remarque, whose thoroughbred, going
precariously on three legs, would not
have blown a match out.
“Well,” rasped Hendrick. “Whafs
stopping you?”
He watched Pinner—Pinner! —pros-
pecting along the wall in one direction,
while Swan’s pink coat bobbed in the
opposite direction, to the bucketing canter
of his cob.
“Mob of damned yellow cocktails!
snarled Hendrick. “Where the devil
are hounds?”
HE pushed his way as close to the wall
as was compatible with the bracken
and brambles and loose scoria, and
peered over.
A drop of between two and three feet
into gorse and bramble, and, un-
doubtedly, more loose scoria. Great
blocks of it, hidden in the tangle of
growth.
A regular death trap.
In fact, a good place in which to put
an end to things —to go out in a breath-
less rush, with one’s boots on, instead
of taking cover up a drain, like that
damned old bitch . . . Over that wall,
death might come shockingly, but it
would come with the swift, annihilating
leap of a tiger, and not as he had seen
death come to others, sneaking, creeping,
stripping them of all dignity and privacy.
He turned the mare out of the milling
crowd, and rode down the wall; and not
even Watty, who knew, of course, as
the rest of them knew, that the old man
was in his dotage, realised quite how
dotty he was.
Walking away from the wall, he
touched the mare with the spurs, so that
she would know that there was some-
thing toward ; and Sussex responded by
reefing hard, and rolling her wide wise
eye.
Then they were round and running.
As she hit her gait, Hendrick won-
dered jus’Niow they would go. Whether
the mare would mess her take off and
hit the wall, or whether she would bungle
the landing on the long drop, and come
down among the brambles and the scoria
on the far side.
Sussex was racing now, head low, and
dead straight, with the speed of an express
tra * n -
TOR a blinding second fear took hold on
r Hendrick; and then he felt the mare
gather herself, and shoot up like a
swallow taking the air \ and exhilaration
took him—the joyous recklessness of a
remembered youth.
The wall flashed beneath them, and,
infinite distances away, earth rushed, with
meteor swiftness, to meet them. In Hen-
drick’s ears the wind drummed a word
that filled him not with fear but with a
sick resentment.
“Death! ” drummed the wind. “Death! ”
And he knew that down among the
brambles death waited.
The mare landed like blown thistle-
down, and stretched unfalteringly into a
smooth running that reeled the lengths
out behind them.
And immense tiredness tangible as a
shroud, enveloped Hendrick, so that his
vision blurred and he swayed m the
saddle. He had a vision of an old dog
crawling away from life’s indignities . . .
cowering up a drain . ..
Mechanically he tugged on the reins
and spoke to the mare, who came re-
Inctantlv to hand
Hendrick rolled out of the saddle into
the whispering grass.
Who was God, and What was He, who
ordained that age should neither live nor
d J e? 5
Horses loomed out of nowhere . . .
there was a senseless clatter of voices . . .
old Feather, smug and unashamed, lick-
ing his face, squatting on her haunches,
scratching • • • yelping as someone booted
her aside.
Swan, in his sweaty coat, fussing . . .
Watty Remarque kneeling beside him.
Young Pinner’s voice, hushed but not
sufficiently hushed,
“Blimey! The game old devil! ”
g- ng Soames materialised from no-
wbere, flourishing a flask.
“Take a swig, old man! You’re all in!”
Groggily, and unaware of Swan’s sup-
porting arm, Hendrick got to his feet,
His lip curled in a sour smile and he
knocked the proffered flask aside,
“Take a pull yourself! ” snarled Hen-
drick cuttingly. ‘Dam yellow gate-
crasher!”
He swayed away from Swan s arm,
towards his mare that young Pinner held,
The boy did not look at him, but stroked
the mare’s nose and her white-lathered
neck.
Hendrick, gathering the reins, scowled
at the boy, who met his gaze steadily,
Swan, watching, winked, but no one
noticed him.
Young Pinner’s voice cut clearly into
tbe r j s i ng hum of conversation, the stamp-
ing and snorting of hot, impatient horses.
was magn ifi cen t, sir!” said young
pi re verentlv
‘ Hendrick spoke over his shoulder,
y lu
Swan-the hounds damn you!
Somehow he found the iron, an
lagged himself into the saddle
Sat a moment, staring with a sick
horror, that increased, at the wide,
bramble-grown wall and the long, decep-
tlve droP-
“tf was damned silly! said Hendrick
thickly. The sort of thing only ayo g
fool without any judgment, an old
f°°l who has lost it, would do!
And he wrenched the mare round and
rode away.
Scratching industriously. Feather
watched hipi. She whined a little, but
made no movement to follow him.


i.O
/
p/
1 •€
II
<3>
8>
Fw
<s>
mm
m
H#
'U
riK
m
TCm*
o=^)
<S)
( >=<J>=^s
>=G
l!
>=( >=<;
(3>
>
()
)=€-0-ri3
>
B>
C
0
55
«)==o
>=(>
m
1
Ml
4^
3Ss=()
( )
K>
n/;j iwi'Hitv
MVH*
,- f{-
0
0
- r
a
t«
jgym.
0
7//
/ 7/
The Fence
that holds
them safe
fA
&
7C
VO
“Cyclone” Ringlock Fencing is the
strongest you can erect. Hard-
steel upright and horizontal wires
are locked together by a ring of steel
wire so securely that they cannot
be moved upwards, downwards or
sideways to lessen the fence ? s
rigidity in the least degree.
Strength is only one advantage of
this fence. It can be erected in
i/4th the time required for a plain
wire fence. Fewer posts and no
droppers are required. It will follow
every rise and dip in the ground
without twisting, breaking or
buckling.
Its simple, speedy erection, and long
trouble-free life, make “Cyclone”
Ringlock Fence the only fencing
proposition worth considering.
Every roll of “Cyclone” Fencing is
guaranteed from end to end.
Made for every class of stock
sheep, lambs, cattle, horses, pigs.
Send the coupon below for catalogue
and further information.
“ Cyclone” is not a
type of fence but is
our registered trade
mark and can only
be legally applied
to fences manufac-
by us.
Cyclone
RINGLOCK FENCE
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
The Grace Building, 77 York Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: New Zealand !L«an & Mercantile Agency Co., Idd.
9656
é
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of "Cyclone" Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
(B. 18/3/’36)
Address
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Post-mortem”: “Slinga” (B. 26/2/’36)
somewhat weakens his claim to having
known Kipling and his works equally
well when he describes the epic of engine-
room repairs as being in “Bread Upon the
Waters.” It is from another story in the
same book, The Day’s Work. “Bread
Upon the Waters” deals with the salvage
of the sinking Grotkau and not the re-
pair of the pearl-stealing Haliotis.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A yachting party has
found on Sudbury Reef, between Towns-
ville and Cairns (N.Q.), what some be-
lieve to be the bones of the Dancing
Wave, most beautiful of all the topsail
schooners in the old blackbirding trade,
Caught by a cyclone in narrow waters
in January, 1913, she met her end as a
respectable trader. Probably, the last of
the genuine Islands-trade skippers, proper
sailormen all, is Captain John Mackay,
now living in retirement near Brisbane,
after many years in command of the
A.U.S.N. Bingera. One of the best of
them, Captain Rogers, of the Young
Dick, was lost with his ship and all her
company without trace. Not long before,
Bob Crighton, one of her A.Bs., had,
single-handed, driven off a boarding party
of Malaita men who had murdered the
G.A. and the carpenter. Crighton got
aloft, and made such deadly practice with
a revolver that he drove the raiders
overboard and saved the ship.
* * * *
“Anno Dom.”: Hereditary rulers, like
Prime Ministers, may be any age, but
Dictators seem to be mostly in their
fifties or thereabouts. Of the present
leading ones, Stalin is 57, Mustafa Kemal
56, De Valera (who, I suppose, may be
included in the order) 54 and Mussolini
53. Hitler is the youngest; he is but 47.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “L. 1.8.” (B. 26/2/’36)
casts doubt on my statement of what
happened on the trek back from Bir-el-
Abd. The Yeomanry, with A.M.C. com-
plete, went into action beside our mob
at Katia, Oghratina and El Abd. As to
there being a well-trodden v road —“a
highway of war and commerce for 5000
years” —let me tell “L. 1.8.” not even a
camel pad existed between the field
hospital from where we started and the
then railhead. The convoy of which I
was a sick, sore and sorry member did
not go to Romani. That spectacular old
gentleman Royston was not with his
brigade, as “L. 1.8.” implies, on that
occasion. Wounded in the hand at
Romani, Royston was compelled to re-
main a day or two for treatment; it
was “Hell-fire” Jack and his staff who
met us during the hours of darkness
and acted as I said. As to “L.1.8.’5”
assertion that it “was the Anzac M.D.’s
private job with its own ambulance
unit,” let me tell him that, after being
attended to by my own regimental M. 0.,
I passed through the hands of half a
dozen Tommy M.Os. before arriving at
our own hospital in Cairo.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Another Iford: Easy on that pen-name....
J. : Roll your swag then and grease your
straps H.K.A.: Well, Dante Gabriel Ros-
setti was an artist as well as a poet; why
shouldn’t you be? W.C.: It would be in-
teresting to know some of the vituperative
epithets which “would have turned a Dublin
fish-hag green with shame”... .R.C.W.: Pas-
sable stuff in the Kipling vein, but not good
enough to get past... .D.R.L.: That sort of
thing is too academic for our pages P-C- :
We should hesitate to call it a “poem”
A.D.: The kind of stuff that Book Arcade
Cole, of Melbourne, used to write 50 years
ago M.M.: Why so many creaking poly-
syllables? D.H.T.: The killing of a fowl is
a poor subject for minstrelsy... .F.W.M.:
Sing ho for soup 1
Anodyne of truculence.
Music-making succulence.
They don’t serve that sort at our coffee-stall.
E.F.H.: “Wonder, number, asunder,
lumber, thunder, slumber, plunder, hunger,
squander” and finally “Nunda” (wherever that
is)! Have you no auricular organs?....
E.R.1.: “A Yea or a Nay, which?” A Nay ;
the theme is attractive but the execution faulty.
. ...A.S.A.: It balanced on the borderline
before falling off on the wrong side
R.W.T.: It’s not a rondeau, and it’s not a
triolet; you should have stuck to one form
or the other T.T.: The damper proved a
trifle indigestible... .T.J.C.: A forlorn hope
indeed. Yet you have some rhyming facility.
.. . .R.G.: Jesting, we should say, is hard work
with you E.R.M.: A few good lines; too
many old props... .J.S.: Tame, if not com-
monplace... .Wariloo: That’s a difficult —
and rather dubious —theme on which to sus-
tain humor E.A.S.: Nicely written brevity,
but the point fails to convince... .D.M.S.:
Boarding-house bathroom humor has been
done to death. Other sketch doesn’t get there
either... .C.K.R.: Story lacks interest and
tends to incoherency 1.M.: Not enough in
it....Jeffo: A good idea, but the finished
article fails to satisfy... .J.W.R.: It doesn’t
convince... .Mars: Our old schoolmaster had
that little trick, too P.H.: Don’t like that
0ne.... G. 8.: Order cancelled.... M.K.:
There’s the bare possibility of a story in the
facts presented, but it would need first-rate
treatment. Yours is too ragged and detached.
H.J.G.: None of them quite gets by
T.D.8.: Supported by affidavits, it might in-
terest the Psychical Research Society. Un-
supported, it’s just another dream story....
R.C.G.: Doesn’t stand an earthly... .M.F.:
A good effort, but not the sort we want
K. : Not suitable C.W.P.: Doesn’t hold
the interest... .N.W.: Came fairly close
J.F.K.: Not so far off either... .Scribo: No-
thing suitable in the batch. Most of the gags
are old D.P.: They have the virtue of
brevity, anyway C.W.T.: Stanzas on
“Smithy” more notable for sincerity than
poetic merit... .C.R.: Cannot recommend you
to try that piece elsewhere, but keep on writ-
ing... .K.P.S.: Correct enough in form, but
the subject matter makes little appeal
M.Y.: Little girl, what then? ... .E.L.A.; No
better than the general run of bushfire yarns.
G.J.: Too slight D.R.L.: We don’t like
it any more than the last time we saw it. If
you really forced your fellow-travellers to
listen to that speech you were taking an un-
fair advantage of them... .E.T.: “Do you think
there is any hope for me?” Not while you
stick to such worn-out plots... .G.L.McL.:
Too pretentious T.D’A.: Cast-iron alibi
yarns are shot at sight—into the w.p.b
R.G.R.: Two hard hearts that beat as one
Crit.: Sentiment sound, versification rocky.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.F.S.: Totally unlike the man whose
name is printed below... .B.B.: Jest
might have raised a laugh a century
ago N.H.; Woodchoppers are as wooden
as the trees they are felling H.L.D.:
Not one of the dozen brought a flicker of
amusement... .A.T.: At least the spittoon is
drawn with loving care J.D.: Looks like a
television picture of a bowl of pea soup sent
out during a thunderstorm T.M.L.: It is
a poor year that doesn’t bring a score of
variations of that old chestnut.... H. 8.:
Two muddy scarecrows standing outside a pub
—or is it a dog-kennel? A.C.J.: Make
yourself more familiar with the human form.
D.H.: More errors to the square inch than
any of the week’s efforts... .P.Q.: You seem
to be an erratic cubist with a penchant for
published jokes A.S.: Neat in a fashion-
plate manner, but not for us W.W.: Don't
be so thrifty with the ink; those almost-
invisible figures would never reproduce satis-
factorily F.N.: Your ambition is commend-
able, but not your art P.J.G.: It hovered
on the threshold; you should creep in before
long S.E.; You don’t draw badly; what you
lack is humor R. 8.; You seem to have dis-
covered an entirely new specimen of the Aus-
tralian abo G.W.A.: You should go in for
designing wallpaper L.S.: There are thou-
sands of school-children who could outdistance
you at the game G. 8.; Too hastily drawn
—take more pains N.F.F.: Presentable
enough drawing burdened with hopeless gags-
J.M.: We prescribe four years’ attendance
at an art school W.N.: Figures seem to be
sartorially perfect even if they are anatomi-
cal monstrosities L.L.: Hopeless from
every point of view... .D.R.: A mass of un-
sightly blobs.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- anti 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.nr.ch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), 'Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the _ World, thu
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banging business.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Sydney, carpenter and joiner,
good tradesman, wants work in country any-
where.—79s.
Typist, Melbourne, wishes type novels for
authors; neat and accurate; special quotes. —
680.
Young man, mechanic and licensed driver,
exp. in all types of cars, trucks, tractors,
stationary engines, shearing and other station
machinery, windmills, etc., able drive and care
for motor-launch, wants job on station any-
where. Refs.—727.
Whereabouts of Jim Keen, who did a great
deal of scrub-chopping with Tom Metcalf on
the creeks in Toowoomba district, also droving
from Toowoomba saleyards about six years
ago. Last heard of at Goomburra and Mul-
gowie.—6B2.
To buy Edwardian Heydays, by V. Sack-
ville-West, and The Days I Knew, by L.
Langtry.—792.
Words of poem “In Flanders Fields,” by
John McCrae.—779.
Magazines, pamphlets and leaflets published
in A.I.F. camps, troopships or in the trenches
wanted by collector of such.—7ol.
To buy S. Tench’s Settlement at Port Jack-
son (1793) and early histories of N.S.W. before
1800.—681.
Words of poem “A Bushman’s Farewell to
Queensland. ’ ’ —69l.
Information Sought.
(1) Particulars of the engine of Sir Mal-
colm Campbell’s Bluebird ? (2) Weight of
the car ? (3) Overall length of the car ? (4)
Particulars of the speed record created in
September last ? —604.
(1) Twelve-cylinder supercharged Rolls-
Royce aero-type in two banks of cylinders.
Power output, 2500 b.h.p. approx.; length of
engine, 7ft. 7iin.; weight of engine, 14|cwt.;
supercharger speed, 3200 r.p.m.; engine
speed, 30,000 r.p.m. (2) Nearly five tons. (3)
28ft. 3in. (4) Flying mile, mean speed
301.1292 m.p.h.; flying kilometre, mean speed
301.473 m.p.h.; flying five kilometres, mean
speed 292.142 m.p.h.
Please supply me with the missing lines in
the following: “/ looked into the future as
far as human eye could see... .Pilots dropping
down with costly bales.” Were these lines
written before the aeroplane was known ?—' 7oo.
The lines are from Tennyson’s poem, “Lock-
sley Hall,” and run:
For I dipt into the Future, far as human eye could
see,
Saw the Vision of the world, and all the wonder
that would he,
Saw the heavens filled with commerce, argosies of
magic sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with
costly bales.
The poet, who died on October 6, 1892, wrote
these lines in early youth, and they were in-
cluded in his volume of poems published in
1842; this, of course, was at a period when
aviation as we know it was merely a visionary’s
dream, but not before the possibilities of
balloon craft were known.
* t- * *
Names of members of the crew of the
Bounty who voluntarily accompanied Captain
Bligh in the open boat after the mutiny ?
573.
Bligh’s list is: John Fryer, master; Thomas
Ledward, acting-surgeon; David Nelson,
botanist; William Peckover, gunner; William
Cole, boatswain; William Purcell, carpenter;
Will Elphinstone, master’s mate; Thomas Hay-
ward and John Hallet, midshipmen; John
Norton and Peter Linkletter, quartermasters;
Lawrence Lebogue, sailmaker; John Smith
and Thomas Hall, cooks; George Simpson,
quartermaster’s mate; Robert Tinkler, a boy;
Robert Lamb, butcher, and Mr. Samuel, clerk.
Nelson, the botanist, died at Koepang of the
effects of the voyage; Ledward, the acting-
surgeon, decided to remain at Batavia, and
Elphinstone, with the seamen Linkletter and
Hall, died of fever on the completion of the
voyage.
* * * *
Information concerning the Australian com-
munistic settlement in South America of 40
or 50 years ago ? What were the history and
outcome of the venture ? —696.
It was inaugurated by William Lane, who
formed the New Australia Co-operative
Colonisation Society, with a capital of £30,000;
every member was expected to pay £6O or
more into the funds. Lane himself contributed
£lOOO. The 600-ton sailing vessel Royal Tar
was purchased, and the party sailed from
Sydney on July 16, 1893, for Paraguay, the
Government of which had constituted the area
of land they proposed to occupy a separate
district, removing it from local control. Here
the settlement was made, but very soon diffi-
culties arose; several members were expelled,
and 85 seceded, most of whom ultimately re-
turned to Australia. A second party arrived
from Adelaide in 1894, but again there was
dissension, as a result of which Lane left
with 57 sympathisers and formed a new settle-
ment. This also failed, and six years later
Lane was forced to abandon the enterprise,
finally returning to Australia; for the re-
mainder of his life he strove to repay colon-
ists who had demanded a refund of their con-
tributions. A number of settlers remained
in New Australia, some intermarrying with the
local population. Their descendants and a
few members of the original party are there
at the present time.
H= H= H= *
Three people playing rummy and using a
double pack cut for deal, and each cut a queen.
What chance is there of this recurring ? —725.
Chances against it are 2197 to 1. There are
eight queens in the pack of 104 cards, so
chances against any player cutting a queen are
104 divided by B—l 3. Chances against it
happening three times in succession are 13
multiplied twice by itself.
% H* *
Overheard the boss speaking of a 200 p.c. in-
crease in his flock. Is this correct ? Can one
have more than the usual 100 p.c. profit ?
734.
Quite correct in sheepbreeding parlance. An
average of one lamb per ewe would be reck-
oned as 100 p.c. In this case the average was
two lambs per ewe.
* * * *
(1) When did the first Russian Five-Year
Plan commence ? (2) What were its aims and
results ? —692.
(1) In 1928. (2) The national income was to
be doubled and the capital invested in industry
to be trebled. Total production was to be
increased by 181 p.c., mainly by the introduc-
tion of mechanical power and a 253 p.c. in-
crease in the output of electricity. Twenty-
five p.c. more workers were to be employed in
manufactures, and new factories, plant, and
railways were provided for. Chief difficulties
were the lack of technical experts to supervise
the installation of new plant and the ineffi-
ciency of workmen, who were unused to
handling machinery. Wheat, oil and other
commodities had to be exported—at low prices
—to pay for imports of machinery, causing
a stortage at home. The growth in industry
was at the rate of 25 p.c. p.a.; crop yields
were increased, the area under cultivation grow-
ing from 116 million hectares in 1928 to 138
million in 1931; and unemployment was de-
creased. On the other hand, there were acute
food shortage, lack of co-ordination between
different branches of industry, and wholesale
destruction of cattle —livestock fell from
306 millions in 1928 to 237 millions in 1930.
On Jan. 1, 1933, a second plan was begun, with
the development of light industries, the in-
creasing of the food supply and the provision
of luxuries its main points.
* * * *
Photographs from a balloon have recently
demonstrated that the earth is round, since
they show the curve of the horizon. What is
the amount of curve in, say, a mile, and how
can it be calculated ? Nautical tables give no
help.— 6ol.
The height of the curve in one mile is a
shade over six and a half inches. To calculate
height of curve on any such chord, subtract
the square of half the chord (in the case of one
mile the square of half is a quarter) from the
square of the radius (approx. 15,602,500).
Take the square root <pf the remainder and
subtract it from the radius. The result is the
height of the curve.
* * * *
Conditions to be observed in making para-
chute descents in Australia ? —652.
The Department of Civil Aviation’s regu-
lations on the subject require that descents
shall be made in daylight, and must not be
attempted under unfavorable weather con-
ditions. The piffit of the operating aircraft
must be in possession of a B pilot’s license, and
the ’plane must be covered by certificates of
registration and airworthiness. Both pilot and
parachutist must be satisfied that there is no
risk that the apparatus or parachutist will foul
any portion of the aircraft, and that the re-
leasing of the parachute will impose no undue
strain on any portion of the aircraft struc-
ture. Two parachutes must be carried during
descents other than emergency. Parachutes
must be of an approved type. Departmental
permission must be obtained, and will be given
only when the operator has proved his ability
to fold the parachute correctly and after a
dummy drop has been carried out successfully
under supervision with each parachute. When-
ever it is proposed to make a descent on the
occasion of any public or sports gathering,
the written sanction of the controlling author-
ities must be obtained beforehand, and, should
a proposed descent be in the vicinity of a
beach or in any locality where crowds are
likely to collect, the prior written approval of
the civic authorities must be obtained. No
flight must be made which would be in contra-
vention of Air Navigation Regulations Nos.
10 and 11, and no descent must be made from
any machine on a flight when passengers are
carried.
* * * *
(1) When were the first motion pictures pro-
duced, and by whom? (2) Particulars of the
beginning of talking pictures ? 719.
(1) The earliest cameraman was probably E.
Muybridge, of California, who in 1878 made
photographs of a horse in action wherein the
horse successively broke threads operating a
series of cameras, thus, in principle, photo-
graphically recording motion. In 1894 Thomas
Edison, with George Eastman’s first strip of film,
produced motion pictures of the peephole
variety. The vitascope of 1896 raised the pic-
ture from the peephole to the screen. (2) During
the period 1922-25 successful examples of
modern talking-pictures were shown, two
machines of promise being De Forest’s phono-
film and the G.E. pallaphotophone. On August
6, 1926, Warner Bros, and the Vitaphone Corp.
screened “Don Juan,” the first commercially-
successful talking-picture in the world, in New
York.
* * * * He
(1) Particulars of the designer of the Eiffel
Tower, Paris? (2) Description of the tower?
—7!3.
(1) Gustave Eiffel was born at Dijonf France,
on December 15, 1832. Among his most
notable achievements are the bridges over the
Garonne at Bordeaux and over the Douro at
Oporto, the great viaduct at Garabit in Cantal
and that over the Tardes near Montlu?on.
In 1893 he was condemned to two years’ im-
prisonment and a fine of 20,000 francs for a
breach of trust in connection with the Panama
Canal works. He died in December, 1923. (2)
Designed for the Paris Exhibition of 1889, it
contains three platforms, reached by a series
of lifts. The platform at the summit is 300
metres (985 ft.) above the ground level. About
7000 tons of iron was used, and the tower
cost £260,000, of which £60,000 was voted
by the State and the remainder supplied by
M. Eiffel, who expected to recoup himself
out of the admission fees. The tower has been
used since 1910 as a wireless and meteorologi-
cal station.
* * * *
Does the air contain other gases than oxygen
and nitrogen ? How are these taken up in the
blood when inhaled ? —731.
Carbonic-acid gas is also present in small
amount, and water, as aqueous vapor. All
gases which constitute the air are found in
the blood, but the proportion varies with the
blood flow through the arteries and veins.
Arterial blood contains the larger proportion of
oxygen.
H= He * *
(1) After whom was the Cunard Steamship
Co. named ? (2) Details of the original fleet ?
(3) Particulars of the Lusitania ? (4) Did the
same firm build the Mauretania ? —695.
Samuel Cunard, who in 1839 received the
American mail-carrying contract from the
British Admiralty. (2) It consisted of four
wooden paddle-wheel steamers, each 207 ft.
long, all built on the Clyde. The maiden
voyage began on July 4, 1840, when the
Britannia sailed from Liverpool for Boston,
and made what was then considered a very
fast trip in 14 days 8 hours. After having
built 13 wooden steamers, the company turned
to iron. The Persia, an iron paddle-steamer
built in 1856, was the fastest steamer afloat,
doing 14 knots. (3) Built by John Brown and
Co., Ltd., Clydebank, her dimensions were:
Length 790 ft., breadth 88ft., depth 60ft., ton-
nage 30,396. She made her first sailing in
Sept., 1903. (4) No, she was built by Swan,
Hunter and Wigham Richardson, of Wallsend.
H= * H= *
To which clan do the Doulls or Dowlls be-
long, and what is their clan history ? —579.
Doull or Dowll is another form of Dougall,
and is a sept of the clan Dougall or Mac-
Dougall, the ancient Lords of Lorn. The
MacDougalls descended from Dugall, the
eldest son, by his second wife, of Somerled,
founder of the clan Donald. During the dis-
pute between Bruce and Balliol for the throne
of Scotland the MacDougalls supported
the latter, and in consequence of the ultimate
victory of Bruce forfeited most of their pos-
sessions. Among the small portion of their
domain left to them was Dunolly, which still
remains the seat of the chief of the clan.
* * * *
(1) Are there patents protecting the prin-
ciple of utilising the rise and fall of the tide
for generating power ? (2) Have attempts been
made to do so ? —470.
(1) Not so far as is known. The only
patents that exist concern the details of appa-
ratus designed for the purpose. (2) Several.
See Studies in Tidal Power, by Norman Davey
(Constable).
* * * *
In what year did representatives of Imperial
regiments visit Australia, and what notable
event was celebrated during their visit ? Also,
in what year did the late King visit Australia
to open the Federal Parliament ? Were these
two events coincident ? —413.
The late King George, as Duke of Cornwall
and York, visited Australia at the beginning
of the century in order to open the first
Federal Parliament at Melbourne in May, 1901.
In connection with the same event, detach-
ments representative of many famous Im-
perial regiments also arrived.
* * * *
(1) How to become a licensed electrician in
N. ? (2) Examination fee ? (3) Where to
apply ? —502.
(1) The applicant is required to furnish
evidence to prove that he has had at least
five years’ practical experience in electrical
installation work. The application for a license
must be accompanied by at least two certifi-
cates of good character signed by a responsible
person. The examination includes a knowledge
of electricity and of the electrical wiring rules
of the Standards Association of Australia. (2)
ss. (3) Electrical Contractors and Electricians’
Licensing Board, Agriculture Buildings,
Raphael-street, Sydney.
* * « $
Significance of the small numbers or figures
appearing at the foot of the first page of the
sections in which a book is bound? —6sl.
These figures are placed there for the con-
venience of the binder collating the sections
before binding.
* * * *
How to tell whether an object will sink or
float in fresh water ? —702.
Divide its weight in pounds by its volume in
cub. ft. If the answer is greater than 62.4
it will sink; if it is less, it will float. In the
case of small objects, divide its weight in
ounces by its volume in cub. in. and take
O. as the number instead of 62.4. For ex-
ample, a piece of white pine weighing 781 b.
measures 6ft. x Ift. x 6in., or 3 cub. ft.
Seventy-eight divided by three gives 26, which
is less than 62.4. It will therefore float. Iron-
wood, weighing 811 b. per cub. ft., will sink.
Brief Answers.
ê


Constipation
and Colitis
Conquered by
Modern Medical
Science
Dr. F. de Courmelles, of the Paris
Society of Practising Physicians,
says "Good health results from
internal cleanliness."
Constipation takes many forms—it gives rise to count-
less ailments. Most serious of these is colitis. The colon
becomes hard, strangulated, and encrusted with putre-
fying deposits. Modern foods, which never include
sufficient roughage to properly exercise the intestines,
make these troubles unavoidable unless precautions are
taken. Regular bowel movements are no protection—
the colon walls have grown too weak to rid their folds
of the daily increasing addition of waste matter . . ,
opening medicines only purge tip? lower end of the
colon, and extract essential vitality frdm the walls. Note
how liquid your faeces become after a severe dose of
ordinary laxative. Science, however, has now found a
sure and effective remedy in Coloseptic (Wayne’s Im-
proved F ormula).
FREE-This
Absorbing
Book
Mail coupon for
demonstration jar
of COLOSEPTIC
and receive, under
plain cover by re-
turn mail, a book
telling you all
about Autoxima.
This book is
FREE—so fill in
and mail the
coupon NOW!
Whole Family Benefits
Wellington, JV.Z.
“I have used COLOSEPTIC for some
time and without any exaggeration
whatsoever it is the finest medicine
obtainable for bowel troubles. There
are five in our family and we all use
it regularly. We have given up the
use of pills, paraffin oil, salts and
salines ... It has given us all health
and vigour . ”
(Original of
this letter
1 may be seen
'at head
> office.)
CLIP OUT.
M3.
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book on
Autoxima in plain envelope. Also
send my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose
1/- in penny stamps.
NAME- -■—y— ——
ADDRESS
COLOSEPTIC'S Vitalising Action
The clogged colon, which results from
the non-digestion of modern foods,
forms virulent poisons that seep into the
blood stream and attack every vital organ
in the body. This 1 introduces a state of
autoxima, or self-poisoning. That is why
Dr. de Courmelles declares that a clean
II *' 'B colon is essential for perfect health.
I B Natives, eating natural foods, are
I I safe, hut civilised people need the
protection that only Coloseptic can
H give. It .tones up the walls of the
ft 1 colon, giving them back the power
1 to easily and naturally - remove- cn-
—(,l Jr*^' 1 crustations, it corrects acid condi*
\( ! —I f.') /1 tions and stimulates the action of
„ , the pores of the skin, the respiratory
Clogged Colon systenl) an( j t he kidneys the three
other important organs which eliminate poisons
from your system. Remove Constipation—the basic
cause of 95% of disease drink Coloseptic.
Look at these two illustrations. One shows the
colon clogged and ineffective. It can no longer
absorb the essential body-building minerals from
the passing matter. It is powerless to eject putrefy-
ing waste. Nausea, dizziness, bloating, headaches
and stomach gas are some of the warning symptoms
that this partial constipation gives. Nine people
out of ten suffer- Colitis and similar serious com-
plaints must follow. Now look at the other illus-
tration. All danger is ended—the colon has been
cleaned by 'Coloseptic. And autoxima,
the dread self-poisoning which re-
sults from a clogged colon, and
which undermines all your functions,
has? been, banished.’ Take Co.l.oseptic 9
put an end-to constipation, avoid the
danger of serious troubles like
colitis, diseases of malnutrition,
weakness, exhaustion, emaciation,
etc. You’ll know real health again
. . . you’ll feel fit . . . you’ll be well. Unclogged Colon
ref ImlM* 60 * -
COLOSE
(AUSTRALIA.
( WAYNf S IMPROVED • FORMULA
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
i •
At: aU CHEMISTS. If locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (iAuit.)'LTD.,'26 O'Connell'St.,« Sydney.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6<f.
'On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Against Sterilisation
Anent the Sodeman horrors. The
Bulle™ suggested that, apart from relr-
gious arguments, there seems to be little
aeainst eugenic sterilisation. The Method-
Ist Conference, too, recently pleaded for
an inquiry.
The British Minister of Health in 1932
appointed a Departmental Committee on
Sterilisation, and its report was issued in
1934. Here is an extract: —
The Legislature would not feel justified
in compelling any persons to submit to
sterilisation unless it could be shown be-
yond reasonable doubt that some, at least,
of their offspring would either be defective
or would develop mental disorder. In the
present state of our knowledge no such
proof can be produced. It would be
hazardous to attempt to forecast the
genetic results of any particular union;
much less is it possible to say about any
individual, without regard to the other
partner, that he or she is so constituted
that some of the offspiing must inevitably
be mentally abnormal.
Admitting that this has to do with com-
pulsory sterilisation, and that the
Methodist Conference calls for voluntary
sterilisation, yet if the business is to reach
the deficients for whom it is intended it
would necessarily become a compulsory
, To i— mo*
procedure. Is it to be expected that
morons, degenerates, sex maniacs are
going to “volunteer” to be sterilised?
As regards social results, the com-
mittee emphatically stated:-
tin
the t h a t it will serve as a substi-
tute for the provision of institutional
a^odation^Thls
many patients could be sterilised, experi-
enced superintendents gave estimates at
three per cent, to five per cent.
Dr. Thomas Colvin (quondam president
of the Glasgow Medical Union), speak-
ing at Edinburgh University to a medi-
C al gathering, declared:
The Central Association of Medical Wel-
... thmueh its hands
which pass d through s hanas
during the past 10 years no less than
34,000 cases of mental dcficien y,
sidered the question of sterilisation of the
unfit purely from its biological and medical
aspect. Its finding was that, while sterilisa-
tion might lead to a slight reduction in
mental deficiency, against that reduction
would be greater evils. It would mean the
setting free of mental deficients who were
p resen t segregated, and by their pro-
miscuous intercourse increase venereal dis-
ease and its evil sequels '
The administrator of Besford Court
Mental Hospital, England, declared:
I do not think that mental defectives
are necessarily the children of mentally-
defective parents. The real facts are that
only fiye per cent of the menta i defectives
G f generation have one or both parents
who are mentally defective. In other
words, 95 per cent, of the defectives to-
day are the children of apparently normal
people.
Sound scientific opinion supports those
religious bodies which disapprove of
sterilisation. The Australian taxpayer
might well be spared the expense of the
inquiry which the Methodist Conference
recently suggested. —L. D. (N.S.W.).
In Hitler’s Germany
“Findy” (B. 19/2/’36) has caught the
idea when he writes that the'Nazi film
“The Triumph of Will” shows that Ger-
many is more military-minded now than
before the war. I was in Hitler’s country
just before the conscription declaration
last year. Every likely-looking mother's
son was decked out in a uniform of some
kind. In toy-shop windows lead soldiers
and miniature Nazi demonstrations were
the prize exhibits. In a Munich shop
was a complete battle scene with wired
trenches,' bombing ’planes, scale-model
artillery (some operated from electric-
light plugs), and troops in various atti-
tudes of struggling life and death. The
combatants? French and German. —
Idee (M.L.).
Taxi Fatalities
Four years ago there was a living in
Sydney taxis at the Is.-per-mile rate.
To-day, with fares down to 6d., it is
almost impossible to earn a living except
by recourse to speeds previously unneces-
sary.
That’s partly why “official figures
show that of the 1070 taxis registered in
Sydney, 193 were involved in collisions
with other vehicles during the quarter
ended September 30.” At, say, 9d. per
mile, the need for breakneck speeds
would not exist; there would be safer
operation and an improved mental and
physical state of the less-hurried taximen.
Had the Government maintained the
anti-cruising regulations suggested by the
police, and granted the standard rare
asked for by 93 p.c. of the taxi industry,
the industry would now show a much
better record.
Again, the average private car
user rarely makes more than one
trip to town and back per day;
perhaps an additional trip to a
theatre at night. The taxi exists for
movement by constant movement. When
not engaged he is progressing from rank
to rank (cruising). Often ranks are
arranged on alternate sides of the streets,
necessitating crossing and recrossing the
traffic even in peak hours. When en-
gaged, it is probably by someone who
wants to get somewhere more quickly
than ordinary transport systems make
possible. The fare is seldom more than 30
pence, often less than 20, and many
times these amounts have to be earned.
Approximately 700 taxis enter or leave
or work in city traffic every day of 24
hours, averaging 30 to 50 trips per 24
hours against the private man’s one or
two —say, 28,000 taxicab trips per day in
the most congested streets of the world.
Instead of lightly blaming the taxi-
men on the strength of misleading statis-
tics, officialdom should fix a standard
fare —say 9d.—and even fix a standard
maximum speed for the city if neces-
sary.—F. de J. (N.S.W.).
The School-leaving Age
Judging from my experience, extending
the school-leaving age isn’t going to help
the average lad in his search for a job.
My young hopeful passed his leaving-
certificate exam, at the end of ’32, obtain-
ing first-class honors in English, four As
and three Bs. He had just then turned
17, and when I tried to get him a job
17 different firms replied in exactly the
same manner; ‘Too old. Why didn’t
you bring him along two years ago?”
The fact that he had stayed at school
and taken his leaving certificate cut no
ice. What those employers wanted was
lads who had been educated to the
intermediate standard and were young
enough to be doing a man’s job
at 17 or 18. Luckily my lad’s
leaving pass was good enough to win
him an exhibition at the University.
He has just completed his second year
in vet. science, and I’m hoping that, after
all, those two extra years at school will
not be wasted. — Betul (N.S.W.).
Roadside Forestry
Vic. County Roads Board deserves
commendation for its policy of tree con-
servation. It will not sanction the need-
less cutting of one tree along the road-
ways it controls. It has transformed a
stretch of the Kyneton-Trentham road,
on the Divide. For three miles this road
was lined with messmate and peppermint
—hacked here and there by woodcarters
—unkempt and unlovely, the outlook of
the traveller a vista of irregular, leaning
trees and low-hanging limbs. The C.R.B.
took charge and set expert woodsmen
to work on the border trees, and made
an avenue of striking beauty.
But the C.R.B. can preserve only exist-
ing timber ; the planting of trees is the
work of shire councils. What a gain to
roadside forestry if these bodies worked
in harmony!— Arbor (Vic.).
Electric Shockers
It was revealed at an Adelaide inquest
that a woman’s death was attributed to
her having plugged an electrical massage
instrument, intended for battery use, into
a domestic power plug. There are many
people who go through life bewildered
by every mention of voltages and fre-
quencies, direct current, alternating cur-
rent, watts, amperes and ohms. If they
manage to put a plug in a socket and
turn a switch they do so either with a
touching faith in the wonders of elec-
tricity or with an equally unreasoning
apprehension. They are just as apt to
plug a 100-volt gadget into a 250-volt
circuit as to investigate a hotplate with
a hairpin.
If the use of electricity in the home
is to spread to every class of the com-
munity, apparatus sold should not only
be efficient but foolproof. This involves
two things: a standardisation of voltages
as well as frequencies throughout the
country, and some check on appliances
placed on the market to ensure their
safety, even in most innocent hands
H. Jaygee (S.A.).


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Moo n e e Ponds Handicap:
Garrio ; next, Aitchengee.
Knoll Handicap: Pep ; next, Vim.
Sherwood Highweight; L’Elite ;
next, Chelandric.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Westmead Handicap: Moonray ;
next, Kuvera.
Club Handicap: Oro ; next, Dul-
cedo.
Rydalmere Mile: Barak; next,
Spear Prince.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
After all, Marabou and Hall Mark will
be at the autumn carnival in Sydney.
Jack Holt, their trainer, said as much
after Marabou had given an encouraging
display in the St, Kilda Handicap at
Caulfield on Saturday. In his previous
outings since the spring the Melbourne
Cup winner had shaped so wretchedly
that it looked a waste of time to con-
tinue further with his training this season.
However, the perseverance of Holt has
had its reward. Marabou reached the
course on Saturday in a calm frame of
mind. On previous occasions he had
been fretful and sweated profusely when
the time for racing arrived. It is believed
that he has now settled down to his new
stables, and that he is ready to produce
his best form. At no stage did Marabou
fall away in condition. This made it all
the more difficult for Holt to understand
his poor efforts in public.
Marabou was made favorite for the St.
Kilda Handicap merely because of his
superior class to the other runners and
the nice impost that had been allotted.
Nearest to him in the weights was Whit-
tingham, who received only 61b. Whit-
tingham has reached the veteran stage,
and on such terms could not logically be
regarded as a serious rival. Punters were
strongly of that opinion, and they allowed
the Sydney-owned gelding to go out at
33 to 1. Harold Skidmore handled Mara-
bou perfectly in allowing him to drop
to the rear of the field, but Free Wheel
set such a fast pace that the favorite had
a terrible lot of ground to make up at
the business end of the journey. He
tackled the task gamely, and did well to
finish third, a length behind the con-
sistent Nellie’s Tip, who lost to Nalda
by three lengths.
Marabou’s third was worth £70 —not
much towards reimbursing the 5500
guineas paid for the son of Marconigram
at auction ; but if he continues to go on
in the right way he may do something
really noteworthy in Sydney. His stable
companion, Hall Mark, was paraded in
the Caulfield birdcage, and looked fairly
well to the eye, though his coat did not
bear the accustomed sheen. For many
weeks Hall Mark suffered from chronic
soreness. This prevented him from run-
ning at the autumn meetings in Mel-
bourne. He has been working well
enough of late to justify the hope that
all is now well with him.
Nalda, trained by Lou Robertson, who
prepared Marabou for his spring
triumph, belongs to her breeder, Soli
Green, for whom she captured the Oaks
in November, The daughter of Verbius
has given Robertson a lot of trouble, but
she arrived at the post on Saturday in
such splendid fettle that Keith Voitre
was able to dash her to the front four
furlongs from home in a l\ miles jour-
ney and defy pursuit. The big dis-
appointment of the race was Rhodes
Scholar, whose owner-trainer Jack James
had reckoned that it was a case of pay-
out for his horse. Rhodes Scholar
astounded James by being last to leave
the straight and remaining near the tail
end of the procession until the race was
practically over. The colt came home
particularly well. He is fully related to
Charles Fox, who won the last event.
Perhaps the Son o’ Mine three-year-old
will do better at Moonee Valley next
Saturday.
Two Sydney jumpers. Fashion Star
and African, figured in the Narong
Hurdle field at Caulfield. Because of his
excellent showing against Blackford at
Flemington on Newmarket Handicap
Day, when a world’s record for two miles
was put up, African went out a hot
favorite. A. Fullarton, who won on
Blackford, was up. Clearing out from
his opponents, African set up a lead
of a dozen lengths; but he struck an
obstacle near the seven furlongs post,
commenced to lose ground from that
stage, and knocked up before the straight
was entered. Fashion Star scored com-
fortably from the 10-to-l chance, War-
pin. The lodging of a protest for inter-
ference by the rider of Warpin excited
astonishment. It did not take the stipes
long to dismiss it. Fashion Star began
his turf career auspiciously by annexing
the valuable A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate. It
is strange that such a thoroughbred
should be racing over the battens as a
four-year-old.
Buzbury, who came home at whirlwind
speed to land the Orrong Two-year-old,
is owned by T. R. Bradfield, whose father
has trained many illustrious performers,
including Patron, The Victory, Night
Watch, King Offa, Magpie and Lanius.
The art of putting condition on a horse
is inherited by young Bradfield, who did
so well with Bimilla in the juvenile sec-
tion last season. Buzbury shaped like a
true stayer. He is by The Buzzard, sire
of Bustard.
In winning the South Yarra Handicap
the Heroic colt Valiant Chief drew
strong attention to his Doncaster chance.
He squeezed home by only half a head
from Phenomenon, but the latter is much
older than Archie Croft’s galloping star,
and was in receipt of 91b. Moreover,
Valiant Chief lost ground at the start.
Still further in his favor is the fact that
the six furlongs was covered in Imin.
KHsec., which is a quarter of a second
faster than the previous course record,
shared by Arachne with Jack Holt’s two
sprinters, Press Gang and Heros. There
is reason for predicting that Valiant Chief
will develop into the most brilliant of the
progeny of Heroic.
Montargis, a cast-off from the stable
of “S. A. Rawdon,” who bred him, came
completely out of his shell by romping
home in the Gordon Steeplechase. He
will be sent over to compete in the Great
Eastern Steeple at Oakbank (S.A.) on
Easter Monday, but, even with a big
pull in weight, is not likely to trouble
Blackford, the main Victorian hope.
Though D. J. Price, his trainer, com-
plained that Charles Fox had been
harshly weighted in the Kooyong Welter
this Son o’ Mine stallion was served up
at cramped odds and made hacks of the
opposition. He carries the colors of the
Melbourne barrister and K.C. who races
as “G. Ornong.”
♦ * sjc
Neither the crowd —a slightly better
one than for the corresponding day last
year—nor the books were taking any
risks over Peter Pan’s chance of winning
the Randwick Stakes at City Tattersall’s
meeting. Though Peter was held to be
really having a tryout, backers supported
him from 7 to 4 to 5 to 4. He put up
a good fight. When Pike pulled the whip
at the Leger he stretched out finely
for a few lengths. At that stage he
seemed a certain place-getter, but stopped
in his run. Still he was a handy fourth.
Sarcherie, bred by her owner, pastoral-
ist Jack Leahy, hit the front with King’s
Head, shook him off at the turn, and
went on to beat Gay Blonde and Contact.
Contact shifted out in the straight and
kept crowding Walder’s mare, who may
have won with any luck over the last
furlong. They finished under the judge’s
box.
Salamander (10 to 1) enhanced her
Sydney Cup prospects by taking City
Tatt.’s Cup after a dingdong go with
Egmont. With her light weight Sala-
mander, who was bred by A.J.C. com-
mitteeman Pat Osborne, comfortably
trailed Fireman to the straight, where
Ward let her burst forward in a break
that Egmont could not quite make up.
Mr. Kerry came home well to run third ;
Volwood, wide out, was fourth. It was a
rough race. Viceroy was almost down
near the six and, falling back, interfered
with Braeburn. Journal was anchored by
his weight. Glen’s Spear, a stayer from
Brisbane, wants a longer journey.
Looking big and burly, Hunter White’s
Doncaster hope Hadrian eased to sevens
for the Denman Stakes. The dark chest-
nut proved that he retains the brilliancy
that made him a high-class two-year-old
by taking the lead at the half-mile, and
lasting it out to beat Vista by half a
head, with Thebez two lengths away.
High, after playing up like a brumby,
was fourth. He is in line for an early
win. Well-backed Moonray was out-
classed.
Parramatta sportsman S. Cash secured
a bargain when he paid 130 guineas for
Talking, by Magpie from the Maori-
land-bred mare Society. The colt has
had four starts for three wins. He walked
in at Canterbury, and though opposed to
a hot field in the Youthful Stakes at
Randwick he made light of his penalty.
Starting at fours, after sevens had been
laid, he had the race won at the turn,
beating Spirits and Glenman comfort-
ably. Billy Boy at 6to 4 was almost
down at the half-mile, and Maxwell
allowed him to lob along at his leisure.
Tonga surprised by doing well at the
right end to run fourth. The Athenian,
a 1700-guineas Pantheon colt, after jump-
ing away well, ran greenly.
Owners of Doncaster and Sydney Cup
candidates should feel pleased that
Mananui, owned by Sydney businessman
W. C. Douglass, is not in those races.
Starting at 5 to 2, the handsome Limond
horse took the Club Welter after a great
battle with Golden Gate and Fernacre,
a length covering the three. Mananui
has now won four races, and looks like
keeping up the good work. He is a
genuine stayer, who would do well in
longer races. It was sheer grit and de-
termination that enabled him to win oyer
seven furlongs on Saturday after being
in a seemingly hopeless position a fur-
long from home.
Jockey Coutts cut matters rather fine
on Glory Girl in the Novice, winning by
only a head from Assai after the latter
was given a run on the rails. The win-
ner was at 12 to 1. Sleepmond was third,
Mestoravon, from Armidale (N.S.W.),
fourth. Quidong and Not So Bad, early
favorites with Fair Diana, shaped in-
gloriously. Quidong was slow away ; still
he made up no ground.
* * * *
Because Viceroy had done nothing to
speak of before the closing of nomina-
tions for the Sydney Cup, his name was
not among those sent to the A.J.C. office.
A very unfortunate omission for the
stable, for he has since proved himself
a one-pace stayer, like Dark Chief, an-
other of knight Hugh Denison’s, who
was a very close second to Akuna last
Easter Monday. Viceroy was runner-up
to Allunga in the V.R.C. St. Leger, and
that performance would necessarily have
raised him in the handicapper’s estima-
tion ; still he could scarcely have got
more than 7st. 61b. It would seem that
in his case a very good chance of going
one better than Dark Chief was missed.
An equally interesting absentee from
the Doncaster is Cereza. In some quar-
ters she is reckoned equal to Valicare,
and she certainly won the Adrian Knox
Stakes, run over the Doncaster distance,
as easily as did that daughter of Valais
in 1926. It would have given additional
interest to this Doncaster to see Cereza
attempting to rival Valicare’s achieve-
ment of 10 years ago, but E. J. Watt
had other views for his bonny chest-
nut. He is, of course, a breeder on a
large scale.
* * * *
Sylvandale is not to start in the Syd-
ney Cup. He had 9st. 91b. in the Aus-
tralian Cup, and the A.J.C. handicappers
gave him lib. more in a stronger field,
though in the meantime he had defeated
a very tired mare in a weight-for-age and
been beaten out of a place in another.
A good horse, but not so good as all that.
* * * *
“Pacer”: A queer incident at the Aus-
tralian T.C. meeting in Sydney caused
the shelving of two drivers by the stipes
for a month. Ellis, driver of Victoria
Derby, dropped his whip at the start.
When he returned to weigh in he had
one. The stewards found that at the five-
furlong post another driver named
Cohen, who was steering Towrang Boy,
had passed his whip to Ellis, and accord-
ingly sent him up to keep his friend com-
pany on the shelf.
* * * *
“Vic”: The report of the S.A. Betting
Board shows how well the law of aver-
ages operates between I. Layem and his
beneficiaries. Investments for the year
totalled £4,660,547, and winnings were
£4,253,970. So that £406,577 went to
pay for the community’s fun and keep
394 bookmakers and 1409 clerks and
agents in work, besides giving £63,000-
odd in turnover tax to the Government
and £29,000 to the race clubs. Even
allowing nothing for office expenses,
license fees, cigars, telephones, throat
lozenges and incidentals, it works out at
only a little over £4 per week per
person involved, including the bookies
themselves. Apparently champagne is
a luxury among the talent in S.A.
* * * *
“Sandown Park”: Followers of steeple-
chasing in England are a plucky lot. The
betting for the coming Grand National
at Aintree shows last year’s winner,
Reynoldstown, favorite at fives, odds that
wouldn’t be considered liberal for a six-
furlong flutter on the flat in this country.
Golden Miller, winner the year before
and the hottest favorite that ever came
undone in the big race when he failed
to finish last year, is only a few points
longer. The Miller, by the way, won his
fifth consecutive Cheltenham Gold Cup
the other day. This 3i-mile steeplechase
is always regarded as a pointer for Ain-
tree, the course being a notoriously stiff
one. He went out at 21 to 20!
* * * *
“Jachris”: Frank Hart, “Khedive” of
Melbourne “Sporting Globe,” has retired
after a half-century as a pressman. He
arrived in Melbourne from the West 35
years ago, and was with the “Age” and
later the “Argus” as a political reporter;
but he wanted to write racing, and for
years before he joined the “Herald”
had been sending in turf copy. In
between race meetings he’s found time
to write a book, Turf Men and Mem-
ories, and a life of James Scobie for
“Table Talk.” As a turf historian he has
few equals in Australia, and as a tipster
he’s been right as often as the rest of
the fraternity.
* * *
“Mari-ja”: There are signs that the
racing game is getting back to something
like the good old days—in stakes, at least.
The Q.T.C., with the intention 6f attract-
ing good horses for its meeting in May,
has added £5OO stake-money for the
Brisbane Cup, bringing it up to £l5OO,
and the Stradbroke and Moreton
Handicaps will this year each be worth
£lOOO. The w.f.a. King’s Plate is
to carry £5OO, and there are other
increases, the total for the three
days £l9OO. There are promises from
Victoria, too. For its meeting on April
18 the V.A.T.C. will distribute £3200 in
prize-money, £4OO better than last year ;
and the Epsom T.C. has put in an extra
£2OO for April 4.
♦ * * *
Liberal, the first of the Windbags to
credit that sire with a classic race —he
won the Victoria Derby in 1932—is now
at the stud himself. He is young for the
business, but a breakdown while he was
undergoing a preparation for the V.R.C.
St. Leger necessitated his retirement
before he had reached the height of his
powers as a racehorse ; and he had prom-
ised to turn out really first-class. He
belongs to A. G. Hunter, and the first
of his progeny were put up at the recent
Melbourne yearling sales. On the whole,
they were a likely-looking lot, but, as
always happens in the case of an un-
tried Australian-bred sire, they went
cheap ; the best price realised was 240
guineas, given by F. Foulsham for a
Liberal—Coolness colt.
*
“D.S.”: The feat of the Delaneys, who
rode first, second and third in a Don-
caster (B. 19/2/’36), has been excelled.
Five Glennon brothers once rode in a
race in Deniliquin (N.S.W.), and three of
their mounts filled the places.
Bromwich beat Turnbull in straight
sets for the South Australian singles title.
The youngster was too fast in the first
set, taking it 6-2, but the ex-Davis Cup
man made a stiff fight of the second, 11-9.
That was the best he could do, however,
Bromwich running away, 6-1, at the
finish. The junior singles went to
Bromwich also, 6-1, 6-2 —the second
year he has won the double in Adelaide.
* * * *
In Adelaide grade cricket on Saturday
West Torrens made practically sure of
reaching the challenge game with Sturt
by carrying its score to 492 against
Port Adelaide. The score was remark-
able for two reasons, a fine recovery after
three wickets had fallen for 24 and a
great effort by Waite, who hit up 339,
beating the State record of 327 not out
established by left-hander Pritchard
seven years ago.


_1 is the Man Who
Wears a “Karachi”
Lightweight Tropical Suit.
KARACHI
Lightweight Tropical
SUIT.
Tailored to Measure, Coat
and Trousers ... £5/15/.
Three Piece £6/6/-
Ready to Wear. Prices
ir °™ 79/6
In Shades of Fawn and
i Biscuit.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
in Queen St, Brisbane
The Richardson Chain Hotel
it iij
TTI
Wit
111
I 1 !|i
V
61-
- ** ,: K tt
1 1 «
ill
m
H
u-
»
£ if.
11l !l
i
%
i'§
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE'S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone; F 4141 (10 lines).
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tom Cribb”: Barney Ross, about
whose visit to Australia so many con-
trary rumours are afloat, is, like so many
American ring champions, a Yid of the
Yids. He is a fast and clever boxer, with
a deadly straight left, and is reckoned
one of the best welter title-holders seen
in the States for years. He won the
world’s lightweight title in 1933, but
weight soon drove him into the ranks of
the welters, where he defeated Jimmy
McLarnin for the title. James, however,
regained his crown, but lost it to Ross
again in a third fight last year.
Ins and Outs
Australian Test averages in South
Africa were headed by McCabe in spite
of a poor trot towards the finish. He
averaged 84 for five completed innings,
with a highest of 189 n.o. ; then came
Fingleton (79.66) and Brown (59.57).
Grimmett’s 44 wickets cost only 14.59
each. Others placed were O’Reilly (27
at 17.03) and McCormick (15 at 27.86).
Fleetwood-Smith could not find form,
his nine wickets costing 42.22 apiece. In
all matches the batting averages were:
Fingleton 83.28, Brown 63.87, McCabe
57.14 and Chipperfield 49.81. Fingleton,
Brown, McCabe, Chipperfield, Darling,
O’Brien and Oldfield all caught three-
figure scores. Among the bowlers Grim-
mett annexed 92 wickets for 14.8 each,
O’Reilly 83 for 14.36 and McCormick 45
for 17.4. F.-Smith’s 25 wickets cost 30.8
apiece.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: The fourth and last
Test between M.L. and the Maryleboners
had to be abandoned because of rain.
The other three were drawn. In this last
match the home side was well in the lead,
and the abandonment probably cost them
the match. In the other tests, with the
exception of the first, they more
than cut level with the tourists. English
skipper Holmes says that the All-Black
batting form is far ahead of anything he
expected, and that if a good bowler or
two can be found England is due for a
shake-up by Maoriland in 1937.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: “Aigburth” (B.
26/2/’36) and I will have to agree to
differ on the intentional wide. To drag
in (imaginary) insulting language on base-
ball lines as a parallel is surely unworthy
of him. That is one of the “points over-
looked in framing the rules” which I
specially excepted; such as running a
man out when patting the pitch under
the belief that the ball is dead—l once
saw W. G. Grace dismiss Sam Jones
that way. But the wide —history shows
that originally it was overlooked, till
some took to bowling it to waste time
and also prevent the batsman having a
hit. The penalty was then fixed at one
run, plus the obligation to bowl another
ball that is within his reach ; and it seems
to me to fit the crime exactly, like the
one point for a safety miss at billiards.
And why “Aigburth” should call that
mild expression of opinion “special
pleading” is a mystery.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Wisden takes the Austra-
lian Board of Control to task for shilly-
shallying over the new l.b.w. law. There
is a good deal of reason in the
reproof. Australia has had two seasons
to adopt a rule which has obviously come
to stay, and even had the discourtesy to
force the observance of the old law on
the South Africans. The Englishmen,
who have been playing under the
amended law for a couple of seasons,
will be here at the end of the year. If
the board has the hide to insist on the
old law then the visitors will have
grounds—and just ones, too —for a vigor-
ous protest.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”; Victoria at any rate will .
do its worst to force the Board of Con- <
trol to adopt the amended l.b.w. law for
matches against the Englishmen. Vic.
has tried several times in this direction,
but N.S.W. opposition has queered the
pitch every time. The Victorians have
been playing under the law in club games
this season, and have found it made little
difference except to the confirmed pad
player. If the point is conceded it is up
to the Marylebone Club to consider the
matter of the eight-ball over. This is
played in Australia in all matches other
than Tests, and has had no ill-effects;
moreover it spares the fieldsmen by
reason of the fact that it calls for fewer
“cross-overs” in the course of a day.
* * * *
“Yarker”: Yorkshire is still the best
managed county club in England. After
paying out over £4OOO to clubs, old
players and cricket charities there was a
working balance for the season, with
close on £25,000 in the accumulated
fund. No other English county can
show such results, though Kent is
solidly financial in a smaller way. Lord
Hawke was elected president, a job he
has held since 1928. In spite of his
reputation as a diehard amateur Hawke
has been a fairy godmother to York-
shire professionals, and was the originator
of the pension and sustenance funds for
retired and incapacitated players.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The latest news of
Sarazen is that he is leaving Yankeeland
for this country on July 22. He is un-
certain as to whether his offsider will be
the ex-amateur championette of the
States, Helen Hicks, or “Babe” Didrik-
son, the Olympic javelin champion, and
nowadays a mighty smiter at golf, Pos-
“ Don't worry, boy; 'e's hurt worse than 'e looks!”
“ Cripes, so'm I!”
sibly both will come, in which case Gene
is likely to have his hands full. It is the
firm intention of the ladies, or lady,
whichever it may be, to enter for the
Australian open championship, and to
belt the socks off the male competitors.
There is no rule to prevent their enter-
ing, so the heads had better get busy
with a new one unless they like to take
the risk of the girls handing them a
licking.
# ;Jc
“Sandringham”: The Naismiths, back
in Victoria, speak highly of the treatment
received by the Australian professional
golfers in the U.S.A. Other members of
the team agree, and their statements are
strangely at variance with those of man-
ager Harold Campbell, recently pub-
lished at length in Brisbane “Courier-
Mail.” According to Campbell the
players gained the impression that their
“presence” was - “not desirable” and “de-
cided to curtail the visit.” Really, the
organisers of the tour ought to make
some explanation. Obviously, costs were
a horrible hurdle. Even the humble
caddie wanted and got seven dollars a
day, and entrance fees averaged £5, while
pubs charged seven dollars a day for a
room.
* * * *
“Baffy”: N.S.W. golfer Richardson,
just returned from a tour of California
with the Australian professionals*, is all
for the larger golf ball now in use in
the U.S.A. Richardson says that, while
the same weight as the standard ball
used in Britain and the Dominions, it
“sits up” much higher on the grass and
gives the player a serene confidence; he
cannot possibly duff his second shot. Of
course, St. Andrews has the say. It has
already damned this ball and one or two
imitations, and while it does that no
British player dare use it outside America
on pain of excommunication.
“Rabbit”: Stanley Jackson, one-time
international cricketer and now a person
of some tonnage in the British golf
world, has been denouncing the small
coterie of golfers who want the courses
lengthened to suit their long-hitting style
of play. Jackson very truly says that the
average golfer is rarely able to break 100
on a championship course, and adds that
the majority of players are aged from
40 to 60. He fails to see why club
courses should be altered to suit the
whim of a few younger members who
“in dry weather can hit a long ball.” He
is right, without a doubt, but the trouble
is with the mug golfer himself. In
Britain, as in Australia, he is too con-
ceited to admit he is the semi-dud that
frank opposition to extending the courses
would proclaim him.
Racquet and Bawl
W. V. Armstrong, who stepped into
the presidentship of the N.S.W.L.T.A.
when Frank Peach died, has retired, and
it is expected that senior vice-president
B. C. Fuller will succeed him. Fuller has
all the tact and experience necessary for
a job which is no bed of roses.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The annual report of
the All-England L.T.C. shows a drop of
£5OOO in profits from the Wimbledon
championships compared with the year
before. It was explained that a fall of
£2500 in gate receipts was due to reduced
admittance charges to members of
affiliated clubs. However, the club now
has £45,000 in the sock.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Whatever is decided
about the venue of the Australia-Cuba
Davis Cup match it is certain the tie
with the U.S.A. —supposing our men
manage to beat Cuba—will be played on
grass courts at Germantown, Philadel-
phia. Germantown is the famous
cricket club which combines the social
and active sides of sport in a manner
not approached elsewhere, save perhaps
by the Wanderers’ Club at Jo’burg. Our
men have played there before, and will
be in congenial surroundings.
* * * *
“Milton”: The Queensland L.T.A. was
so impressed by the success of the night
matches played by Cochet and his cob-
bers that' a move will probably be made
to stage the inter-State games during the
summer in the evening. Trials have
proved the artificial light no handi-
cap, and the blazing heat of the day,
so much bemoaned by visiting players,
will be avoided.
Miscellaneous
Banking on having £3234 to spend on
a team for the Berlin Olympic Games,
the Olympic Federation chose a dozen to
make the trip, and is to provide them
with a manager. Besides, it gave its O.K.
to the N.S.W. Police eight-oar crew,
which has promised to stump up its own
whack. Cecil Pearce is to be the sculler,
but the proposal to provide him with a
partner for the double-sculls event was
wisely forgotten. N.S.W. cyclist Gray—
he won the 1000 metres time trial at the
Los Angeles Games—will see his third
Olympiad, and it will be heavyweight-
wrestler Scarf’s second. A. J. Watson, the
Victorian hurdler, was a rep. before also
—at Amsterdam in 1928. Of the others
Metcalfe (N.S.W.; a jumper), Cook
(Queensland; welterweight boxer) and
lightweight-wrestler Gerrard (Vic.) were
in London for the 1934 Empire Games.
Westralia weighs in with a swimmer,
Percy Oliver, a 17-year-old ; the other
swimmer is N.S.W. girl Pat Norton, who
is only 16. Two cyclists, Wheeler and
Johnson, and middle-distance runner
Backhouse, all from Vic., round it of|
H. G. Alderson, president of the N.S.W,
Rowing Association for 15 years, gets
the job as manager.
It’s a likely-looking bunch on paper;
Pearce, the policemen. Scarf, Gray and
Pat Norton the best bets.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Entries for the Stawell
Easter meeting are said to be a record
since the war. The show will be held
on April 11 and 13, and, in addition
to the famous Stawell Gift, a 130 yards
Sheffield handicap, there are 12 handicap
events ranging from 75 yards to twp
miles. The Victorian event is the lasj
of those big professional pedestrian meet-
ings which once blossomed like the rose
from Thursday Island to the Leeuwin.
Bad management and crooked work
killed off its competitors, but the people
running the Stawell affair have kept it
free from suspicion for over 50 years,
with the result that it has flourished like
the green bay-tree. There is only one
rival in the world to-day, the annual
meet at Powderhall near Edinburgh.
* * * *
“Gate”: The annual report of the
N.S.W. Rugby League shows a profit on
last season of £374. There were reduc-
tions of £467 in players’ allowances,
£313 in grounds expenditure and £43 in
insurance. On the other hand, there
were heavy increases in gatemen’s wages
on account of the return to the S.C.G.,
and a considerable amount was paid out
to retain the services of unemployed
players in the city. The Queensland tour
showed a profit for the first time, as did
a short visit to the North Island of M.L.
A big cheque is expected as the result
of the English visit this coming season.
s•* * *
“Rus”; One of the N. S. Wales
country Rugby League “groups” has
asked permission of the Board of
Control to invite a French team, or,
failing that, one of the North of Eng-
land clubs, to tour the country districts
of N.S.W., the proposers to guarantee
expenses. The chances of getting an Eng-
lish professional club here are Buckley’s.
Even the side from England this season
will be rushed through N.S.W. and
Queensland in order to get the players
back for the all-important English club
season. The French League might scrape
up a team if it is still alive, but it cer-
tainly would not be worth the while of
the countrymen to import it.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby Union’s sixty-
second annual meeting disclosed a cheer-
ful state of things generally, including a
surplus for the season of over £7OO. The
amateur code is steadily reoccupying its
old territory in the country districts which
passed to the League in the war years
and later. The Maori tour was a great
success, and the inter-State games with
Victoria and Queensland drew good
attendances. No reference was made to
an Australian Union, though one is
urgently needed now that the game is
played regularly in five States. The
mantle of J. W. Breckenridge, retiring
honorary treasurer, fell upon C. R.
Davidson. 1
* * * #
“Preston”: The Victorian F.A. is open-
ing its season on Easter Monday, April
13, thus forestalling its ungrateful cheild,
the League, by a fortnight. There will
be a match with the League on June
29, and that seems to be about the only
fixture outside the club matches. Not
so much has been heard of the sorrows
of the Association of late. It used to be
a regular athletic Mrs. Gummidge, but
has brightened up during last season and
this. Possibly this is the final flurry
before the finish which its enemies have
been forecasting for so long, but the
point need not be stressed.


15
r
m
"tip
A
y> /
C
ft
F
* I
»
rr
r
n
n
fu
ntiiw
f/f*
rr
Wfflffi
r
Ol
r//
rii?
o
0»
r
'//7n
n
r>
U
til
n
rv*
K
B
CM
/-
I
r
r
P
If,
m
n/n
r
r
5?
?
r
o
r
mitih
r
/ //
n
r-
-11
r
a
n
r
•jp*
0/~-7r
to
r§c
4^o
%
«Cf.
&
o
v>
o
%
c
%
T 3
\
\
<V
O
Collins Street
MELBOURNE Cl
riiw'Lni" r-,.7 # Phone 9010
E.NJOY £ APPRECIATE
THE D£FT SERVICE
AND ENTICING
CUIJINE •
L/l
'J
f.n
J
l-06fc
From the very first days of its
establishment—almost 100 years ago
“Scott’s” has held a foremost posi-
tion amongst Australia’s residential
hotels, and still retains its reputation
for real comfort and efficient service.
Right through the years, progress with
the times has been “Scott’s” policy,
so that to-day sons of its original
patrons, with their wives and families,
and grandsons, too, with their wives
and families, still look to “Scott’s” as
their Mecca when visiting Melbourne.
Overseas visitors perhaps entire
strangers to Melbourne —will find in
Scott’s “The Hotel Ideal,” combining
in its modern service everything one
can possibly expect at one’s hotel.
Central situation makes
“Scott’s” convenient to
everything and everywhere.
Inclusive Tariff —or
Room Only—as desired
Breakfast Luncheon Dinner
a la Carte
Telegrams & Cables
“Scottsotel,”
Melbourne.
’Phone:
Cent. 9010.
Twelve Lines.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET. E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
You will ’ of course, visit the . . .
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
NINE DAYS
SIX NIGHTS
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
6th to 15th APRIL, 1936.
Australia's Premier Exhibition.
SEE—
Australia’s Finest Cattle—Australia’s Best Trotters and Jumpers
Championship Woodchopping Contests —The Grand Parade Common-
wealth District Agriculture Exhibits—Pigs, Poultry, Dogs, Birds and
Flowers Manufactures, Machinery and Motor Cars—Championship
Buckjumping and Campdrafting—Queensland v. N.S.W. Rodeo Events;
Exhibition of Cattle Throwing and Tying—Steer Riding.
Cossacks in Horsemanship Extraordinary.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W. G. C. Somerville, Sccrelary.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Has There Been Inflation?
Economists and others are delivering
themselves of great argument about the
recent rise in bank-deposit rates and the
inevitable increase in the cost of
advances.
Conditions are always changing,
always will change, and, what is more to
the point, should be expected to change.
Anticipated events can in some measure
be provided for. Just as soon as recovery
reached the point where it became profit-
able and reasonably safe to borrow
money, banks and other lending institu-
tions found plenty of customers. Life
offices, when the property market and
building trade showed revival, gave more
attention to mortgages and other invest-
ments and less to Government loans,
though they are still one of the largest
groups of investors in such security.
After the last drop in bank interest
(Oct. 11, 1934), it wasn’t long before
declarations were heard that rates had
been brought too low. Just about a
month afterwards a 3 p.c. Government
loan went off at half-cock. In October,
1934, 4 p.c. 1938-47’s (four loans aver-
aged) yielded £2 19s. 2d. per cent. Since
then there has been an almost unbroken
rise in returns asked for; in October,
1935, it was £3 14s. 3d. p.c., and is now
above that figure.
Whether the cost of money, peanuts or
cabbage-tree hats is too high or too low
depends on what other costs are in com-
parison. Other investment opportunities
promising better returns took money off
fixed deposit at banks, and at the same
time increased the demand for advances.
The change from a surplus of idle money
to a taxing of banks’ credit resources
has been the development of less than
18 months. The ratio of cash to liabili-
ties among trading banks had dropped
from 17.4 p.c. in September, 1934, to 10.8
p.c. in December, 1935,
There has even been talk that a cer-
tain amount of inflation has taken place.
An almost clear line of demarcation exists
if such is the case. Present taxation, un-
balanced Budgets and Government bor-
rowing may suggest inflation, and exces-
sive imports are somewhat in the same
category. But, so far as the cost of ordi-
nary goods and services is concerned,
despite the fact that our currency is now
worth less than half its 1929 (gold)
value, non-rural commodities have not
moved much above the lowest level
touched during the slump, and, even on
a paper basis, are nothing like the gold-
currency figure of 1929.
Non-rural items only are considered
here, because most of our primary pro-
ducts have either a fixed Australian price
or are governed by world parity. A big
rise in the price of wool overseas could
hardly be called inflation in itself; in-
flation would only result if the effect
spread into the costs and prices of, say,
Australian labor, manufactured goods,
land values, rents, etc.
Basic-wage rates have been increased
very little since the lowest point was
reached, yet the Commonwealth Statis-
tician figures that present rates of pay
buy more than at any time between 1925
and 1929. There has been a small de-
cline in purchasing power since 1934,
which does point to a corresponding in-
crease in the cost of living.
Loans which don’t liquidate themselves
within a year or so are what the banks
are chiefly concerned about now. Ad-
vances on properties are generally diffi-
cult to reduce, and, although excesses in
this direction are not at all likely since
the slump, a curtailment of lending on
investment in fixed assets will probably
now be noticeable.
With business conditions at a stage
of prosperity scarcely bettered in half
a dozen years, however, where there is
an actual shortage of houses, buildings
or other public necessities, finance will
be forthcoming from somewhere if it can
see a safe profit. It may cost a little
more ; but, as already mentioned, some
opinions are that the present cost is too
low.
Morning Star (G.M.A.), N.L. (B.
4/3/’36), during the three weeks to
March 7 treated 365 tons for 9090 z. bul-
lion, estimated to contain 711 oz. fine
gold, valued at £6197. The market is
stronger. At 4s. 3d. for all shares present
appraisement of the show is £85,000.
*
Lancefield’s February crushing was
7653 short tons for £19,697, average £2
11s. 7d. a ton, a drop of 1347 in tonnage
and sd. in recoveries on the previous
month. The directors have stated that
there are as many working faces as pre-
"Just as Well they've got the wireless gain or they'd 'ave 'card us!"
viously, with enough ore for the mill.
The ore-shoot at No. 10 level is 200 ft.
longer than four levels higher, with no
indication of values diminishing at depth.
“The mill will not close down for want
of developed ore in the mine,” The state-
ment didn’t arrive before it was due. The
scrip was below 9s. at one stage.
* * * *
Value of building permits issued in
Sydney and the metropolitan area for
1935 was £8,951,122, as against £5,665,217
in the preceding year. Increase was equal
to 58 p.c. The 1935 figure was almost
six times greater than that for 1932,
* * * *
Mt, Lyell (Tas.) has experienced a
long spell of dry weather, and at present
the power supply from the Lake Mar-
garet hydro-electric plant is being eked
out with juice from the State’s Great
Lake station, which is also connected up
with Electrolytic Zinc’s mine at Rose-
bery. Copper prices overseas went to a
new high level last week, electrolytic sell-
ing to £4l a ton. Lyell shares haven’t
responded much. The market apparently
remembers the 12 weeks’ dry-weather
stoppage of the 1934 term. But the posi-
tion isn’t quite so susceptible to weather
as it was then.
* * * *
Coal raised in N. S. Wales in 1935 is
estimated at 8,500,000 tons, up about
650,000 tons on 1934. Exports (2,850,000
tons) were less than 100,000 tons greater,
though, but for the shipping strike, they
would have been up more than 200,000
tons.
H* * ❖
Yarra Falls, Ltd., as suggested here,
has returned to a 10 p.c. distribution —
an interim at that rate was declared last
week. The Melbourne floods toward
the end of 1934 did damage to the ex-
tent of £64,088, and the div. dropped to
8 p.c. This is the biggest textile concern
in the Commonwealth. Its own factory
is at Abbotsford (Vic.), and the co. has
a controlling interest in the prosperous
Globe Worsted Mills, Marrickville (Syd-
ney). Plant of the parent is in the books
at less than a third of original cost.
* * * *
Beau Monde (Aust.), Ltd., is a hosiery
manufacturer paying spectacular divs. at
present—2s p.c. on pref. and ord. shares.
A Melbourne concern, paid-up capital is
£76,520 in 50,000 prefs. and 256,080
ords., all ss. shares. During the term to
June 30 last (the first year as a public
co.) 31 p.c. was earned on capital. Plant
has been written down to 55.9 p.c. of
cost price, there is £68,797 in visible
reserves, while sundry creditors amounted
to only £14,485 last balance day. The
8 p.c. prefs., not listed, participate fully
with the ords., which have a net tangible
backing of 10s. 5d., and are at 17s. 6d.
(equal to 70s. per £1 of capital) on the
market. At that figure they yield 7.1 p.c.
* * * *
When a change-over from prefs. to
ords. in David Jones, the big Sydney
store, was suggested here some months
back, the second prefs. were at 30s. 6d.
and the ords. a few pence over 40s.
Most recent sale of the seconds was at
305.; the ords. sold to 455. 6d. last week
(receding later to 435. 6d.), some parcels
being for London delivery. The co.’s
earnings last year were enough to pay
15.6 p.c. on ord. capital. An interim div.
is due next month.
* * * *
The firmness in the wool market, em-
phasised by the higher prices in London
and Australia last week, has been indi-
cated for some time in Bradford top-
makers’ quotations. For seven weeks
there has been no alteration, though
spinners pressed for a reduction. It has
been “wool away!” all right this season.
N. S. Wales Statistician Waites esti-
mated that Sydney’s January price was 1
p.c. above the average for 1929, and there
has been a rise since.
* # * *
Tooheys, Ltd., the Sydney brewery, has
declared an interim of 4 p.c. Last year’s
was 34- p.c., with a final of 4 p.c.
Friday’s price was 325., giving a yield
on the 16s. shares of 4 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
basis.
* * * *
Sydney and Adelaide wool sales this
month have been cancelled owing to in-
sufficient supplies; the main N.S.W.
auctions concluded on March 12, but
* there will be a three-day offering in May.
Perth sales have already closed, Vic-
toria will shut down for the season
before the middle of April, and Brisbane
offerings promise to be so much smaller
that the last auction has been deferred a
week—to the beginning of May. Despite
a lighter clip, 234,956 more bales
were shipped during the first seven
months of this season compared
with last.
* * * *
The firmness in the wool
market, emphasised by the higher
prices in London and Australia
last week, has been indicated for
some time in Bradford topmakers’
quotations. For seven weeks
there has been no alteration,
though spinners pressed for a re-
duction. It has been “wool
away!” all right this season. N.
S. Wales Statistician Waites esti-
mated that Sydney’s January
price was 1 p.c. above the average
for 1929, and there has been a
rise since.
In Melbourne last week:
By Thursday the sharemarket was a bit
groggy at the knees following Australian finan-
cial developments and international complica-
tions. Gold shares, more especially those with
a wide, speculative market, were very weak.
Lancefield, Lady Shenton, New Occidental,
Fijis and Sandy Creek were conspicuous.
Among industrials the reaction was general,
but on a less pronounced scale.
Wattle Gully contribs. ran up to over 20s.
At that figure for all shares market valuation
is £60,000. Driving from the 575 ft. level in
order to pick up the lode pierced by the
diamond drill (125 ft. away) has produced pay-
able stone on the way.
Australian Glass ords. recovered by about
a shilling, but still showed the biggest mark-
ing-down among market leaders since the reac-
tion to higher interest.
Shares in New Middle Creek, which aban-
doned its Avoca (Vic.) properties after they
had been turned down by Placer’s subsidiary
(the market expected great things; the scrip
went to £27), sold up to 60s. following re-
ports on the co.’s alluvial option near Gympie
(Q.). They slipped back a bit later. J. W.
Eskdale (chairman) and R. Larsen (engineer)
inspected the area; dish-sampling confirmed
“the claim of high gold values of the tested
100-acre section.” There are 400 acres in the
lease (in a valley on a high plateau), covered
by dense scrub; sampling of the rest of the
property will take some time. Mr. Larsen is
on the job.
Buckley and Nunn ords. continue to firm
on small turnover.
Prestige 10s. ords. were steady around 175.,
yielding 5.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Not
less than that rate was paid throughout the
slump. Accounts will be made up after the
end of this month.
Cox Bros. ords. weakened to 355., after
having been up to 455.
Carshalton (Bendigo) having reported more
spurs carrying gold on the 450 ft. level, on the
same line of faulting as profitable spurs are
being developed 100 ft. above, the shares sold
actively to 7s. 3d. on Thursday.


The "Eight"
m
i
fra
1/UitL
7
y
t'LO C(VC U
Oil
Knee Action is the greatest advance in riding comfort
since the motor industry began. It has made possible
safer, easier steering, has minimized the danger from
blow-outs, has vastly improved road-holding qualities,
and has revolutionised seating comfort, making the
rear seat as steady and comfortable as the front.
Knee Action is a costly feature, but it represents
correct engineering practice and is therefore fitted to
Oldsmobile as a matter of course, and without any
increase in the price of the car to the public.
Without Knee Action, no car is modern. No car which
retains the old-time rigid front axle with its unyielding,
inflexible springing, can give you the utterly safe, com-
pletely comfortable and relaxing ride of the Knee Action
equipped Oldsmobile. Not one. Don’t buy any car
until you ride in the Knee Action equipped Oldsmobile.
if
and i
vetntLin^
Cl
It costs you nothing extra to enjoy the smooth riding, safe
handling and fatigueless travel that Knee-Action gives if you
buy an Oldsmobile.
You will get the safety and enduring beauty of a Holden
Body, the most completely silent and scientifically sound-proof
ever built if you buy an Oldsmobile.
You want the safety of Super-Hydraulic Brakes and Centre-
Control steering. The silence and driving ease of synchro-mesh
Gears. The advantage of No-Draught Ventilation. The con-
venience of an Inbuilt Streamlined Locked Luggage Trunk.
You will get them all—you will get everything—if you buy an
Oldsmobile. Come for a demonstration drive.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
the perfect tone of the new G.M-H. “Air Chief” Car Radio.
Separate speaker fitted into the header bar flush with roof. Price
£27 plus tax. Can be financed with your Oldsmobile purchase
under G.M.A.C. deferred payment plan.
1936 , ,
mobile
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
Inbuilt Locked Luggage Trunk
leaves the interior unencumbered.
Separate spare wheel compartment.
Ride Stabilizer keeps the car steady
irrespective of speed and enables
fast turns to be made with comfort
and safety.
■
Super-Hydraulic Brakes stop the car
with quickness that is almost tele-
graphic in its response. Self-ener-
gizing. Self-equalizing.
No-Draught Ventilation scoops in
cool air on hot days, admits fresh
air without draughts in bad weather.
ma.
Centre Control Steering takes
curves without effort, holds you on a
straightline course with the lightest
touch.
‘Armourplate’ Windscreen of flex-
ible safety glass is standard on all
models. Cannot splinter, distort vision
nor discolour.
Consult Your Local Authorised Dealer
Raub (FMS.) gold recoveries im-
proved both in grade and volume for
the four weeks to January 25. From
4726* tons crushed 1984 fine ounces was
recovered a yield of 8 4dwt. For some
time the average return was 7.4dwt.; dur-
ing the past four months 69420 z. has
been recovered. Shares are steady
around 18s., on the whole an improve-
ment over the prevailing prices of the
past couple of months.
F * * * *
The crushing of Gordon Gold (80l-
warrah, Vic.) announced recently came
from that rich 200 tons estimated to
exist above No. 3 level, and averaging
6jOZ. From 20 tons put through on
February 29 the co. reported a return
df 1160 z., with soz. from “seconds.”
Narrow and rich above, from No. 3 level
down the reef spreads out, with lower
values. It has been a remarkable little
show to date.
* * * *
Golden Plateau (Q.) during February
crushed 3485 tons for 2 187 oz. —average
12.6dwt as against 13 sdwt in the pre-
ceding four weeks Some
stuff from above 187 ft. has been put
through pending further developments to
100 ft. lower. In two chutes on the 287 ft.
level 41,000 tons of 14dwt. grade was
mentioned m the annual report. From
187 ft. to 287 ft continuation of the
“highly payable ore is dec ared to have
been proved adding largely to the ore
reserves and prospects of the mine at
depth. With costs at 30s. and gold at
£8 10s there was a profit in sight of
£441.965 on the basis of the last pub-
fished ore reserves. At 17s for all shares
niaiket valuation is £7l ,
* * * *
Stock Exchanges were dull at the be-
ginning of last week. Both buyers and
sellers were hesitant. Towards the week-
end a sagging tendency again became
noticeable, both in investments and gold ;
rather heavy selling in mining shares then
started, with disconcerting falls in some
cases and a decided marking down in
most issues. Stocks which resisted the
general tendency on Melbourne ’Change
were Yarra Falls and Australasian Paper,
among industrials; Broken Hill South,
Wattle Gully, Carshalton, Gordon Gold
and Cuthberts Misima and North Kal-
gurli looked fairly robust among a sick
mining group.
* * * *
The Australian note issue, which rose
to £51.3 million in December, has dropped
back to £47 million (about the usual
figure) now that the holiday season is
over. The average issue for 1932 was
£50.6 million ; for 1935 it was £47.6 mil-
lion. Despite the contraction in total
over four years, more of the currency is
now held by the public, less by the
trading banks-£4.8 million less.
* * * *
Australia’s floating debt—mostly in the
form of Treasury and bank overdrafts —
totalled £84.4 million at Dec. 31, and is
principally represented in public accounts
by deficits. Total debt, Commonwealth
and States, at June 30 aggregated £1242
million, an increase of £39.5 million dur-
ing the year, as against rises of £lB mil*
lion and £l7 million in the two preceding
periods.
* * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, supplier of
brewers’, butchers’ and grocers’, etc., sun-
dries, earned 21 p.c. on its ord. capital
last year, and paid an ord. interim of 4
p c and final of 6 p.c. This year’s in-
has been lifted to 5 p.c. It is a
sound business, and the market has
awa k ened to its future possibilities. In
Qctober the ords> could be ha d at 465.
wgek th£r£ wer£ sales at 56s
* * * *
. r{a
Turnover in North Kals. sprang to Me
recently when the price rose to 23s 3d.
and 2900 shares changed hands in Mel-
bourne on one day. Developments and
prospects have been noted here in the
past few weeks. On the 1350 ft. level 2oz.
values have been uncovered over width
of sft. in what appear to be two separate
ore-bodies. The market receded to 225.
later.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Mutiny on the Bounty”
Melbourne has been flocking to the
Metro to see a picture which was heartily
endorsed by The Bulletin’s Sydney
critic. Charles Laughton’s faultless
presentation makes Bligh a very human
figure.
Laughton conveys the stupid simplicity
of the man and his complete faith in his
methods with extraordinary vividness. On
the boat trip to Timor he no doubt said
to himself, quite honestly, “I was too
soft with those swine! If I’d only
flogged ’em a bit harder, this would never
have happened!” He was a real leader,
inasmuch as he judged every member of
his crew by his own criterion. The navy
was engaged in serving science, and he
would serve the navy even to the extent
of giving his breadfruit plants some of
the crew’s supply of water. He could not
conceive of any individual having rights
which conflicted with this social obliga-
tion. If, with these qualities, he had had
the intelligence of a Captain Cook, he
would have known how to get his results
better. But as individuals are never aware
of their own ignorance and there was
nobody to teach him, Bligh was what
Bligh was, and all that a reasonable re-
quest from one of his officers did to him
was to positively nauseate him. The
officer might just as well have, asked
him to commit bigamy.
Whether this was Bligh’s character or
not, it is Laughton’s idea of him and
deserves the respect due to a distinguished
artist.
“Anne One Hundred”
This is one of the initial efforts in
Anglicism of an old-established Ameri-
can film corporation which has been
impelled by British quota legislation to
establish an English studio. It opens
obscurely—a jumble of shipping scenes
and factory glimpses that seem to have
something to do with breadmaking, since
grain is shown being poured into a
lighter. It later appears that the industry
symbolised is soapmaking. Heiress to a
Harry Baur in “Moscow Nights .”
soapworks (Betty Stockfield) finds her
property has been deliberately mis-
managed so that it may be bought for
a tenth of its value by a rival firm. She
takes command, backed by capital sup-
plied by an obviously villainous million-
aire on the understanding that she must
either return the money in six months or
marry him. So he and the proprietor
of the rival works and the general man-
ager she sacked for ruining the business
are all leagued against her. The terrible
explosives which, as every scenario-writer
knows, are stored by the ton in soap-
works are exploded; at last the whole
works go up in flames, just in time to
prevent the heroic lady undertaking an
enormous contract which will enable her
to repay the borrowed money. Of
course there is a heroic young man
(Gyles Isham), the new general manager,
who saves the situation when all seems
lost, and claims the hand of the proprie-
Max Miller in “Get Off My Foot.”
tress. Despite its shoddy melodramatic
material, the film is fair entertainment.
At Sydney Civic.
“In Person”
Ginger Rogers is given an opportunity
in a straight comedy which depends very
little on singing or dancing, and acquits
herself admirably. Her sense of farce is
sound, and she doesn’t strain after effect.
She is Carol Corliss, a movie star who
is on the verge of a nervous breakdown.
At her specialist’s behest she disguises
herself as a frumpish female —protruding
teeth, black, fringed wig and horn-rimmed
goggles. As such she meets Emory Muir,
a Judge’s nephew, and, hearing that he is
bound for his uncle’s backwoods shack,
wishes herself on him. Kind-hearted but
bored with such a dowdy female, he takes
her, unchaperoned. There he takes dis-
ciplinary action, and she is compelled to
cook for him while he fishes. The dis-
guise doesn’t last long, and the subse-
quent comedy, heightened by the arrival
of her leading man and culminating in
a shotgun marriage by the local, highly-
moral sheriff, is exhilarating. As a con-
cession to the popular association of Miss
Rogers with songandance, the last ten
minutes is devoted to studio sequences in
which Ginger’s feet twinkle with their
accustomed facility. A first-rate comedy
intelligently directed. At Sydney Plaza.
“Two In the Dark”
Also at the Plaza. A new twist given
to the lost-memory theme lifts this thriller
out of the ruck. Ford Adams (Walter
Abel), wandering in a Boston park with
his memory gone, a wound in the head
and 500 bucks in his pocket, meets Mirie
Smith (Margot Grahame), a stranded
actress. Ford’s wearing of a pin-stripe
suit, coupled with the 500 he can’t
account for, puts him under suspicion of
having murdered an affluent citizen. His
efforts, assisted by Mirie, to establish his
identity, and the eventual unmasking of
the murderer, make a fast-moving, well-
constructed picture. Walter Abel man-
ages a difficult role skilfully, and Miss
Grahame gives able support. Casting is
good throughout.
“Moscow Nights”
Russia, 1916. Principal characters are
Brioukoff, a peasant making a large for-
tune larger with war contracts (Harry
Baur), Captain Ignatoff, a young aristo-
crat (Laurence Olivier), and Natasha, a
beautiful nurse (Penelope Dudley Ward).
Athene Seyler is an Austrian spy. To
save her family fortunes Natasha be-
comes affianced to Brioukoff, but she
loves Ignatoff. Ignatoff gets into the
toils of the Austrian spy, and at a court-
martial only Brioukoff’s evidence can
save him. The peasant’s good heart
triumphs over his jealousy. The acting
is superior to the piffling plot. Baur’s
picture of the many-sided moujik is
memorable; sometimes a bully, some-
times a slimy hypocrite, sometimes
quietly vindictive, sometimes uproariously
convivial, the man is a bundle of con-
tradictions, but Baur reconciles them.
Olivier, foo, is well-cast. He is hand-
some, curt of speech; sneers often,
smiles seldom ; wears his uniform with
an air. Miss Seyler makes an efficient
spy. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Song and Dance Man”
Yet another back-stager. Same pair
of hoofers —man (Paul Kelly), with more
conceit than talent; girl (Claire Trevor),
vice versa. Nevertheless George M.
Cohan, who did the plot, managed to
strike some new angles and to make an
interesting yarn. Casting, which in-
cludes Ruth Donnelly, is excellent; musi-
cal numbers are weak, but not much
emphasis is put on them. As in all
talkies, when the heroine croons she is
backed by an orchestra of 60 performers,
even though, according to the screen, she
is struggling through an audition accom-
panied by a bored pianist. A relic of the
old Thespian tradition according to
which the band, not being behind the
footlights, was presumed to be upon a
sort of astral plane from which it could
play Greek chorus. All very well in the
theatre, but the talkie aims to hold the
mirror much closer to nature, and super-
natural aids to singers are out of place.
At Sydney Capitol.
“This Is the Life”
This is Jane Withers’s talkie from
start to finish. The youngster is hardly
ever off the screen, and her versatility,
which is astounding, is exhaustively
plumbed. She’s a child prodigy in vaude-
Athene Seyler as the spy in
“Moscow Nights.”
ville, doing Harry Lauder imitations, tap-
dancing and the like backed by big ballets.
An orphan, she has fallen into the hands
of a pair of scoundrels who are making
a fortune by working the child at high
pressure. She escapes with a fugitive
from justice (John McGuire), and they
join up with the caravan of a quack
doctor (Sydney Toler) and have many
adventures, winding up with meeting the
beauteous Sally Blane. The fugitive s
name is cleared, and the villains are
foiled in a most satisfactory manner.
Toler’s picture of a fakir and spruiker
gets the type to the life, and other parts
are well cast. Jane Withers’s perfor-
mance is a remarkable one. Irrespective
of age, she is one of the most accom-
plished comediennes on the screen. Pre-
viewed at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
Some First Nights
“The Black Eye,” by James Bridie,
stared at a packed house at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday. The darkened optic
Jane Withers in “This Is the Life.”
was in the possession of a young actor
who so completely captured the sym-
pathy of his audience that it gave a sigh
of satisfaction every time he made his
appearance. Unfortunately his extraordi-
nary success went to the young man’s
head apparently, or the play ceased to
give him the opportunity of acting which
it did in the beginning, and before the
evening was over the sigh became one
of repletion, as always happens when an
audience feels it is being asked to give
more than is being given to it. In the
meantime a play full of the bright pro-
mise of psychological problems being
interestingly dealt with became an exten-
sion of the long arm of concidence.
The young actor was Ken Tuckfield,
who, as George Windlestraw, a youth
who is being urged by his father to fight
an environment against which his father
has given him no weapons, periodically
walked out of the play and addressed the
audience from the footlights, explaining
his idea of his emotions, his aims, aspira-
tions and perturbations, and this device,
at first pleasing, shared the fortunes of
the play towards the finish. Windle-
straw is a youth full of self-confidence,
but when Elspeth Crawford (Joan Burke),
a managing type of woman, comes along,
he behaves like a schoolboy. When his
father becomes paralysed he takes charge
of the business and proceeds in his turn
to manage Elspeth, but his brother, who
is also in love with her, frightens him off
the premises. He picks up with a
drunken gaolbird, plays roulette with
him and wins £750, which the gaolbird
pays by giving him a tip on the races
which turns the money into £B5OO. He
returns, a conquering hero, to the bosom
of his family, and, after his brother has
blacked his eye, receives his reward in
the shape of Elspeth, with his own com-
plexes and those of his sweetheart all
intact and unresolved by the playwright.
Mr. Bridie got an interesting idea,
probably from Freud or Adler, but by the
second act he was in full flight from it.
This did not prevent the evening having
some particularly bright moments.
Among these was an interview between
the tyrannical father (George Crosby) and
his younger son, played with brilliance
and verve by both parties ; the vignette
of an old Scotch retainer (A. G. Whit-
ley) ; another of the mother (Phoebe
Marks), incapable of facing the tragedy
of life except in terms of the simplest
material needs of the tragedians ; and the
gaolbird, done with to-be-expected skill
by the invaluable H. N. Gregory.
Gregan McMahon’s production and cast-
ing were as good as ever,
4* 4* 4* *i*
Geoffrey Whitworth’s “Haunted
Houses,” presented by the Sydney
Players’ Club at St. James’s Hall, is a
whimsical exposition of the pitfalls ot


Properties for Sale.
Re Estate of MARY DAVIES, Deceased.
TENDERS so endorsed are invited and will be
received by the undersigned up to 4 p.m. on
Tuesday, April 21, 1936, for the
PURCHASE OF
FREEHOLD LICENCE and GOODWILL
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
DARLING and UNION STREETS,
BALMAIN,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
LAND.—TITLE—OLD SYSTEM FREEHOLD.
Frontage 59ft. to Darling Street,
100 ft. along Union Street,
100 ft. along Little Nicholson Street.
PREMISES are ocupied by Toohey’s, Ltd.,
under lease expiring on November 22, 1936.
The lease and form of Contract of Sale may
be inspected at the Public Trust Office.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
A deposit of bank cheque or cash of 1 p.c.
of the price offered must accompany each
tender, and will be refunded in the event of
such tender not being accepted.
Within fourteen days of date of notification
of acceptance of tender the successful tenderer
shall sign the Public Trustee’s usual form of
contract of sale by private treaty and pay a
further deposit of 24 p.c. of purchase price.
In the event of failure to sign such contract
and pay such additional deposit within the
period above specified, the Public Trustee may
retain and forfeit amount of deposit lodged
with tender.
W. B. GEDDES,
Public Trustee,
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Tenders.
THE MOUNT BISCHOFF TIN MINING
COMPANY REGISTERED.
Second-hand Plant.
TENDERS are invited and will be received at
the Company’s Head Office, Launceston, Tas.,
up to the 18th April, 1936, for the whole or
any part of the undermentioned Second-hand
Plant as it stands at Waratah, Tas.
15-ton Locomotive (Beyer and Peacock). Steam
pressure allowed, 1401 b. to sq. inch.
15-ton Locomotive (Beyer and Peacock). Steam
pressure allowed, 1001 b. to sq. inch.
Approx. 4000 ft. Steel Rope used for
aerial ropeway.
Approx. 4000 ft. lin. Steel Rope used for aerial
ropeway.
Two Gyratory Crushers, Bft. x 3ft. Sin.
Small Portable Engine. Steam pressure, 501 b.
to sq. inch.
12in. Gravel Pump and fittings, including 50ft.
of suction and delivery piping.
Pontoon and Superstructure, 42ft. x 42ft., 60ft.
in height, including tie rods, brackets,
angle irons, steel boxes, etc.
Large Revolving Screen and fittings, 30ft. x
6ft. diam.
200-h.p. Motor.
Jib Crane (Tangye).
Engine and Cornish Boiler. Steam pressure,
801 b. to sq. inch.
Breaking-down Saw. Length, Bft.
Seven Circulars. Diameters, sft., 3ft. 10in.,
3ft. 3in., 3ft. 2in., 2ft. 10in., 2ft. 9in„
2ft. Bin.
Pulleys, fittings and belting.
The lowest or any tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
T THOS. G. TRAYNOR,
Launceston. Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
mm.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
e
McPHERSONS Ply. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane., _________
WORK YOUR LAND AT LESS
COST.. with on EFFICIENT FORDSON
/St.
&
ZJ.t
r)*
n
im
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR—26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT... HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
...GOVERNOR CONTROL ... SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM...
CRANKCASE VENTILATION ..." HOT-SPOT ” VAPORISER ~. CLUTCH
PULLEY ... POWER TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
Fordsoiv Tractor
The English Eordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-
power on the market. And because it has ample economical
power, it will save time and money for you on every job—
ploughing, harvesting, haulage or stationary work. Fordson
is available with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips.
A special Fordson Purchase Plan makes it possible for your
Tractor to earn its cost before you pay. Your local Ford
dealer will supply full particulars.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria &. Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstovvn Road.
Port Melbourne, Vic.
POWER PLANT LTD., 93-100
Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street. Perth
FORD
MOTOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F61.27.T
DESIGNED AND BUILT AT DAGENHAM, ENGLAND
marriage, and raises the question whether
persons about to be wed can be dis-
suaded by terrible examples. In this play
Lucifer takes the view that a few glimpses
of such would stay many a journey to the
altar, while St. Valentine, a kindly and
elderly sentimentalist, thinks otherwise,
A pair of young lovers are selected to
test the opposite views, Lucifer under-
taking to arrange that the couple shall be
provided with sufficient evidence of mari-
tal infelicity. The stage presentation of
vignettes of “the three deadly dangers
of marriage—the sin of wealth, the sin
of poverty, and the lie in the soul,” by
J. E. C. Appleton and H. Goodsall, is
well done. A new note was struck in
repertory production by the use of a false
proscenium and atmospheric.curtain typi-
tying a city tenement. A well-drilled
crew, nearly a score strong, comprised
the cast. Clarence E. Street gave an ex-
cellent study o£ Lucifer, making him a
wily old rogue and an accomplished
showman. William Wines's Sf. Valentine
was a well-meaning, somewhat-behind-
the-times old fellow Barbara Smith and
Stewart Dibley were convincing as the
young lovers, and Helen Blood, Alex,
Boden, Edward Jackson, John Copeman,
Gwen Langley and Leonard Bullen were
* * * *
At her farewell benefit concert in the
Melbourne Town Hall Mauricette Mac-
Gillicuddy displayed dual gifts, an in-
fallible memory and an excellent tern-
perament. Miss MacGillicuddy is in her
early twenties, but has had an unusual
amount of experience as a pianist, is en-
tirely untroubled by nerves and showed
no sign of the strain which would have
been understandable in the circumstances,
Her grasp of technique and her smooth-
ness of style are a result of talent
moulded by hard work and careful study,
She has a natural sense of tone and
phrasing and a lilting joy in her own
interpretations which she conveys with-
out any apparent effort to her audx-
ence. The ardors of the Chopm B Minor
Sonata were taken with the spirit of
youth and exuberant health rather than
a fiery-fingered intensity, and her ver-
satility of accomplishment was displayed
by her pianism in the Dvorak quintet in
conjunction with the Victorian String
Quartet (Hyman Lenzer, Franz Schie-
blich, Mischa Kogan and Medenc Frail-
Ion). Assisting artist Thea Phillips sang
exquisitely some German lieder, Weber’s
‘‘Softly Sighs” and the “Addio” from
“La Boheme.”
‘
Current ArtbllFStS
. , . .
Ffw industrious painters than
the late A. H. Fullwood can have existed,
He is known, perhaps, to a widercircle
■» Jhe outside world than any other Au»-
tralian artist, for his pictures are to be
™ most of the important public
of Europe During the eight
years he was m London the Royal Aca-
d™y accepted his offerings annua ly
without excephon As one of he
artists with the A.I.F. his output was
considerable and as during the greater
part short he made
be hundreds of his pictures in private
ownership. Yet, when it came to a matter
Q f arranging a memorial exhibition of
his work in Sydney, sufficient pictures
were mustered—2so of them, large and
small, oils, water-colors, monotypes, etch-
ings and lithographs—to comfortably fill
the walls of the Education Departments
spacious galleries. And only two of these
pictures were borrowed. The rest, appar-
ently, are what constituted the studio
stock at the time of the painter s death.
These pictures at first give an impres-
sion of great unevenness of execution ,
an impression due to the fact that Full-
wood had command of half a dozen
styles in any medium, painted some of
his pictures at one setting—direct impres-
sions from Nature —and devoted to others
days of careful attention. He was a per-
sistent experimenter; with him, to en-
counter a technical difficulty was a joy.
He knew no rest till he mastered it. One
of many matters that he exhaustively
studied was the effect of scattered clouds
upon a wide expanse of country on a
sunny day, and the fruit of his observa-
tions gives a peculiar vigor and charm to
many of his landscapes.
He excelled in pinning down the atmo-
sphere and spirit of a scene. In such
large canvases as “Autumn Morning,
Paris,” “The Way to the Boats, Rich-
mond” and “Richmond Bridge” he pre-
sents riverside scenes with infinitely more
realism than the most perfect photograph
could achieve, though his brushwork is
broad. One can walk about, as it were,
in such scenes and find something fresh
and interesting and true at every turn.
But he was equally at home on the Seine
or the Thames, by the glaciers and
mountain lakes of Maoriland, in an old
English village, on the Matoppo hills, in
New York, London, Sydney or Cape-
town. He painted marine scenes with as
much facility as landscape, and his etch-
ings stamp him as a very fine architec-
tural draughtsman. The show is a delight
to those who appreciate art; to those
interested in the technique of painting it
is a liberal education.
•b •!•
Unk White, whose drawings fill the
walls of a capacious quadrangle at the
Macleod Gallery, is a fine all-round
draughtsman with a good color sense.
Also he can at times exercise a quaint
imagination, and when this is to the
fore his work earns for itself an indi-
vidual niche. Fantastic drawings in color
done for the London “Sketch” and
“Tatler” strike a new note in rococo
absurdity ; the animals in these cartoons
have humor in every line. The pon-
derous and the insignificant are brought
into sharp contrast. The cochineal bug
reprimands the hippopotamus for tread-
ing on his pet corn, while all the great
wild beasts in the Ark tremble like jel-
lies at his fury and the ostrich plunges
his head in the sea. The marvellous
mouse balances on his nose an ele-
phant ; poised on a fountain issuing
from the pachyderm’s trunk a duck
swims placidly, and hanging on to the
elephant on either side chimpanzees
juggle with speckled adders, tail in
mouth. In a wrestling scene a very small
but stoutly-built ape hurls an elephant
over the ropes. After these this critic
liked best two little Parisian sketches in
color, “La Vieille” and “Suresnes Sur
Seine.” In pencil and crayon are some
soundly-drawn portraits and character
sketches, and various nude studies ex-
hibit the fluent line that characterises
so many of the drawings White has made
for The Bulletin.


WOLFE’
Take one a day "FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE” . . •
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
GOING TO
SYDNEY?
STAY AT
PETTYS
OK)
In its 100 years and more of service
Petty's has acquired a name for quiet
comfort and modern convenience
You would like the service and the
cuisine. Tariff: Room and Breakfast
from 11/6. Inclusive from 18/-. Wire
or write for reservations.
PETTY'S HOTEL
York Street Syd ney R.J.Langley Manaqer
'mUTM^gS
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Necessities to users in
arts* sr
facturer best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUR COY,, LTD. Dept. 113,
Cnr Pynnont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Premier, Mrs. Stevens and the
family, plus Gwen’s young man, Philip
Rudder, were a centre of interest on the
decks of the departing Orion. The
young rrtan was going as far as Mel-
bourne before taking final farewell.
Joan Wentworth was surrounded by
her friends—most of them Frensham
girls. Joan is off to London for three
years to study dramatic art. The
newly-married Tony Litchfields were
sped on their way—honeymoon in Tas-
mania. Mrs. Stuart Doyle just made
the gangway in time. Mrs. John See,
Mrs. Noel Heath and the Sydney Snows
were others whose hands clutched hefty
bunches of streamers as they sailed out
of Woolloomooloo Bay.
After seeing the Orion off, one Sydney
woman sighed because she hadn’t had
the forethought to corner the streamer
market. Heavens! what a small for-
tune had gone into the wavering, blowing
carnival tentacles that bound so gaily the
travellers and the girls and boys they
left behind them. The wharves were a
seething mass of humans ; somebody esti-
mated about ten thousand. It seemed
more like ten million when you tried to
get through them. Sydney is obsessed
with the outgoing liner.
One thousand people went away on
the Orion. Reckon up for yourself how
much that means going out -of the
country; and every ship leaving Aus-
tralia is laden with passengers. There are
scarcely enough berths to go round.
Perhaps all this overseas travelling
accounts for the fact that parties and
balls on the grand scale are now almost
unknown in Sydney. There’s not the
money to spare for them.
Britain’s High Commissioner in Aus-
tralia, Sir Geoffrey Whiskard, and his
lady arrived in the Oronsay last week.
Their home will be in Canberra, and
they made the journey to the Federal
Capital after a day in Sydney, All their
household treasures have been sent from
their home in Kensington; even their
piano is making the voyage. Painting in
water-colors and gardening are two of
Lady Whiskard’s hobbies. Mary, the
only daughter of the house, is being
trained in secretarial work, and is at
present working in the office of her old
school, St. Paul’s School for Girls, in
London. The boys, Dick (16) and John
(some years younger), are still at school
in England.
What a psychologist Dr. Lucy Gullett
is! She was the guest of the Kooroora
Club the other day, and when the time
for her speech came she didn’t arise and
tell those business-girls how to turn them-
selves into still better and more efficient
citizens. She got up, and made them
laugh till the room rang again. Her sub-
ject was etiquette, and her matter was
drawn from books written on the sub-
ject in Victorian or even pre-Victorian
days. Now we know that a lady should
never wear a wreath of roses to break-
fast ; the correct thing is one of butter-
cups or daisies. To wear mittens to
breakfast, too, is considered flash. When
served with a bad oyster the genteel
thing is to remove it from the mouth to
the palm of the hand, and, when the wine
waiter appears, to pop it in his paw.
The Hon. Sara Vanneck, daughter of
Vic.’s Governor, Lord Huntingfield, had
a great time while she was in Sydney last
week. With David Peel, to whom she is
engaged, she glimpsed many angles of
the Harbor City’s life, including a life-
saving display at Bondi. Mr. Peel, who
is director and advance representative
of the English public school boys’ tour
of Australia, went off to Maoriland in the
Makura on Thursday. The Hon. Sara
saw him off, and later fortified herself
with tea brewed in the Botanic Gardens
by the Mosman branch of the C.W.A.
While in Sydney she was the guest of
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, of Elaine, Double
Bay. She will become Mrs. Peel in Mel-
bourne shortly after Easter.
The Women Pioneers gave president
Mrs. Lingham a party last week. Mrs.
Lingham is the only president the club
has known, and there was a great rally
of admirers. They came even from the
country, danced in the ballroom, stopped
for conversation in the reception-room,
or sipped a cocktail anywhere at all. Mrs.
Lingham, in a blue-and-silver dress,
masses of flowers in her arms, was a
decoration in the doorway between lounge
and ballroom. Secretary Carlotta Doyle
busied herself with introductions. Miss
Laycock, in black, was one of the night’s
handsome. Mrs. MacLaurin and her son
Colin, who leave for England on April 6,
were a centre of attraction. Aubrey
Halloran was a persistent dancer ; so was
Betty Higgins.
To be married in St. John’s, Darling-
hurst, has become a fixed habit with the
Rundle family. Joan, youngest daughter
of the Charles Bundles, of Woollahra,
followed the example set by her mother
and her sisters, and there became Mrs.
Antony Litchfield, of Cooma. The
altar was a cloud of white lilies, the
bride’s frock (it had been worn by sister
Mrs. Allen Anderson) was long and snow-
white ; so were the taffeta frocks of
’maids Nessie Crago and Sheila Elliott.
Even the sophistication of King’s Cross
is not proof against a wedding, and
about two hours before the ceremony the
crowds began to gather. There was a
great party at Ealing, the Rundle home,
after Padre Lucas had fixed up the deed
of partnership. Talking of deeds reminds
that the Tony Litchfields are settling into
the station property at Cooma formerly
owned by the Searights, of Neutral Bay.
The two went off with the 998 other pas-
sengers in the Orion.
Preparations for Joan Hammond’s
testimonial concert at the King’s Theatre,
Gordon, to-morrow night have the
North Shore line in a simmer of excite-
ment. Ann O’Connor, of this Raymond
Sawyer photograph, is one of a com-
mittee of young workers, equally attrac-
tive, equally enthusiastic.
Joe Fallon’s hurts in his Californian
smash-up have proved more extensive
than was at first known in Sydney. How-
ever (marvels and convenience of the age
we live in), his Macquarie-street doctor
(Hipsley) has already had two or three
telephone talks with the doctor in charge
of the case in the hospital of the Good
Samaritan, Los Angeles. There’s a
mother at this end who scarcely moves
from home, so anxious is she for the con-
stantly cabled bulletins.
There was a crowded oak room at
Farmer’s the other day when, at their
monthly lunch, Lute Drummond wrestled
with the members of the Modern Lan-
guages Association for entertaining the
idea of a basic English as a mode of in-
ternational lingual currency. Plucking
a blossom from Chaucer, a singing leaf
from Keats, a crystal note from Shaks-
peare and weaving a crown of rhythm
from Dante and Homer and Goethe, the
speaker proved that the poets, the lan-
guage makers of every land, had never
recognised such limitations. In short
that a language of 850 words would be
a soulless thing, and therefore of no use
in the real representation of ourselves to
other nations. Some listeners may not
have agreed with the speaker, but the
verdict on her hat was unanimous. It
was of black velvet, with a coque plume
at the side.
It is nearly seven years since the talkies
came into fashion in Sydney ; but still
the patients at Gladesville have nothing
but a silent cinema to entertain them.
In seven years, too, the supply of silent
pictures has run short. Now, a fund has
been started, and when it is sufficiently
nourished a talkie machine will help
take the patients’ minds from their own
worries. A party at the Carlton on
March 25, which will combine music
and bridge, will help the cause. Elsie
Condon, in this Montgomery-Dunn pic-
ture, will make the evening glad with her
rich contralto. The music programme is
an all-star one.
For the opening of her husband’s
show in the Macleod Gallery Mrs. Unk
White wore a sky-after-rain blue jabot
with her hyacinth-pink frock. The effect,
with her blue-black hair, was very paint-
able. link’s charcoal sketch of his wife
was one of the features of this show.
All the younger artists were at the open-
ing and loudly applauded Professor
Waterhouse’s speech. He later on backed
up his opinion of the artist by direct
action, and bought one of the more ex-
pensive pictures. Ever-youngs like Julian
Ashton and Howard Hinton were sighted.
Howard bought three black-and-white
studies for his pet Armidale College. The
subject of one of these was Dan Russell,
link’s antagonist with the foils; Mrs.
link’s father had sat for the other two.
Handsome Mrs. Tom Rolin sandwiched
the show between two other afternoon
engagements.
link’s objective is Spain, where he
hopes to dawdle looking at the cool
colors, the tortured skies of El Greco,
and acquiring the final polish to his
Spanish. At his show there was a little
knot of six who passed their criticisms
in the tongue of Toledo and Seville.
Four of them were Australians, but two
of the ladies were from South America,
one from Peru. All of them are friends
of Mr. White, so when his barque reaches
the shores of Cervantes’ land the Dons
will begin to think him a blood brother.
Sales the first afternoon passed the fifty-
guinea mark.
“Of course, I’m going to the ball,”
said Mr. Pickwick, “and I have a notion
that I shall see you there.” A twinkling
centenarian, Mr. Pickwick greets the
world from the tickets for the ball that
bears his name. His surmise is correct,
for already one thousand applications for
tickets are in hand. The ball is for the
Bush Book Club and Prince Alfred’s;
and has such workers as the Alexander
Gordon lady, Dorise Hill, Barbara Knox
and Commander Gifford on its commit-
tee. In fact, the whole thing is their
particular baby. The Trocadero, Syd-
ney’s about-to-be-opened dining and
dancing place, will house the ball, which
will glitter its way through Easter Tues-
day night. The Troc. has a vast danc-
ing floor, so patrons of the two causes
need fear no undue collisions. Tickets
are a moderate half a guinea each.
Women in most cities of the world felt
a personal loss when they read the
news of Jean Patou’s death. To have at
least one Patou creation has been the
dream of the debutante for years. The
great designer was a master of color,
and his Patou-pink and Patou-blue were
two of heaven’s gifts to women whether
of good or indifferent complexions. He
was little more than middle-aged when
he died.
Two country girls who plan early mar-
riages are Joan White and Leeuwin Hick-
son. Joan’s parents are the James White
couple of Edinglassie, Muswellbrook, and
she is to marry Frederick Moses, of Kil-
lara, in St. Mark’s at Darling Point on
the thirty-first day of this month. The
reception at Elizabeth Bay House will be
a very woolly affair, for many of the
guests are country friends who will stay
on in town for the Easter doings. Edin-
glassie is one of the stations where the
Duke of Gloucester was entertained.
Leeuwin Hickson is marrying Harry
Dangar, and the two will be wed at
Singleton shortly after Easter. Leeuwin
is the only daughter of the W. Hicksons,
of Jerry Plains, is a fine horsewoman,
and not only knows how to but can do
anything that crops up about a station.
Harry is an artist, in addition to being
one of the State’s wealthy young men.
Turee, the R. H. Dangar home at
Coolah, will be their address.
A home at Hunter’s Hill with a garden
stretching down to the Lane Cove River
is a very satisfactory haven, and when
the gardens are flower-starred and bright
with movement the result is a lasting
memory. That was what the farewell to
the Premier and Mrs. Stevens was meant
to be by the dwellers of The Haven,
Professor and Mrs. Anderson. Consuls,
the President of the Legislative Council,
Speaker Dan Levy and professors were
among the informal groups on the lawns
and verandahs.
Maurice de Abravanel, now busy con-
ducting opera for the A.8.C., has a great
circle of friends in Sydney, and they
cried three cheers when they learned that
he has been offered and has accepted a
conductorship with the Metropolitan
Opera House, New York. Mr. de
Abravanel has conducted at the Berlin
State Opera House and at the Opera
House in Paris. His job with the A.B.C.
finishes about midway through May, and
the New York opera season commences
in December. From here he will go first
to Europe, then to New York and its glit-
tering salary.


Stay at this
MODERN HOTEL
Rooms from 4/- to 16/-!
sgpii
niM'ff
iiiMriri
%9w
lii heart of Melbourne.
All modern luxuries.
Unrivalled catering.
Popular “Room Only”
tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
Write to dept. B 1 for
free illustrated folder.
VICTORIA PALACE
201*229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
è
é
WILCOX. SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1467 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARY VERONICA COHEN
Petitioner
And WILLIAM RAYMOND COHEN
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM RAYMOND COHEN late of
Forest Lodge near Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
VERONICA COHEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twelfth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. R. WISHART, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melboure
Chatter
The Tom Smiths lent their beautiful
home Grong Grong, in Toorak-road, for
a fete in aid of the Melbourne Hospital.
Through the loudspeaker Arthur Baillieu
introduced Stanley Argyle, who spoke of
the dark ages of 50 years ago when he,
as a medical student, worked at the Mel-
bourne Hospital, a building which was
everything it ought not to have been.
A large committee helped stock and sell
at stalls scattered over the grounds. Mrs.
Carl Stephens conducted a “four pigs”
lucky-dip (largest pig Is., smallest Id.).
The Old Dutch crockery stall dressed
its helpers to tune with the land of tulips
and windmills ; a chocolate stall was all
lilac and white, like its saleswomen, and
black and silver were the witching deco-
rations of a mystery stall. Meg Rowell,
Doris Ball and Betty Balderstope enticed
their friends down to a lower lawn to
eat ice-cream, and a fortune-teller painted
rosy pictures (and an abnormal number
of trips to Sydney). Howard Earl, dressed
as a Mexican, walked about with a sheep
(classification, crossbred wether; donor,
Sid Birrell) which demanded to have its
weight guessed.
The bookstall of new and second-hand
volumes proved a great draw, and the
children’s corner of the garden provided
chutes, see-saws, a lucky fishpond and a
tulip garden with presents attached to
the root of each paper flower. At the
men’s stall Arnott Tolley, Colonel Fan-
ning, Steve Menzies, Bill Allen, Lew
Wathen, Clem Enderby and E. M. Purdy
proved themselves to be excellent sales-
men, for they unloaded socks, braces
and suspenders to people of all ages and
both sexes.
In the evening colored lights turned the
garden into a fairyland and the fishpond
into a nymphs’ pool. Bridge was the
attraction in the vast ballroom of white
walls and ceiling, with black stencilled
figures on the white barrel-shaped parch-
ment lampshades. Each card table was
made attractive by green-and-white check
taffeta cloths weighted at the corners with
silver tassels. A bar and an auction sale
helped the exchequer, but there was no
traffic in raffle tickets to interrupt the
play.
The marriage of Betty Nicholas and
Dr. Edmund Alcock took place without
any inkling of a matrimonial plot be-
tween two assisting participants at the
ceremony. The bride’s father and one
of the bridesmaids had decided to play
leading parts at a wedding three days
later. Miss Nicholas chose heavy slipper
satin for her gown, with its pearl-defined
waistline, pearl-embroidered train and
mediaeval collar with an upstanding back
and Vandyked edges. A Juliet cap of
seed pearls was the attachment for clouds
of tulle veil, and a bookmarker orna-
mented with a trail of gardenias and lily-
of-the-valley was placed between the
leaves of her prayer book. The sextet of
’maids, Nola Nicholas, Shirley Alcock,
Rosemary Wright, Shirley Whittaker,
Jessie Brookes and Helen Eggleston,
wearing fluffy and fragile frocks of white
tulle, had turned back the leaves of the
history books for their headdresses. Tall
and peaked, they were of the Plantagenet
period, even to the wispy veils which
dangled from their pointed tips.
The marriage took place in St. John’s,
Toorak, and the late-afternoon celebra-
tion, held amidst lavish decorations, was
at Homeden, the bride’s father’s home in
Lansell-road. The bridal table was spread
with cloth of silver and scented with
trails of frangipanni. The presents were
very magnificent. G. R. Nicholas’s gift
to his daughter was a table groaning
under a load of crystal; it contained
everything in cut glass which a woman
could possibly want, from large lamps
and bowls to liqueur glasses and tiny
crystal cruets. Among the fine oratory
at the reception was a moving address by
the Rev. Deasey, a sparkling speech from
the ’groom, and another from the best
man, Dr. Stanley Williams, who turned
on humor of such quality that make-up
was ruined and tears of joy fell unheeded
into the champagne.
On the following Saturday afternoon
G. R. Nicholas and Shirley Alcock (who,
accompanied by her mother, came out
from England for her brother’s wedding)
gave their friends a tremendous surprise
by announcing their engagement —but
they only divulged half the secret, for
while telephone bells were ringing with
congratulatory inquiries the pair were
already plighting their troth at Wesley
Church. Afterwards Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Cozens gave a party at their flat
for a handful of friends and relatives.
There were no attendants, but the young
bride chose to be married in white. Both
families, who got to know one another
well in England, are delighted at the
romantic alliance, which has complicated
relationships, for Mr. Nicholas is mar-
ried to his daughter’s sister-in-law and
Dr. Alcock’s father-in-law and brother-
in-law are one and the same person.
Here is an Ina Tones portrait of
Blanche Due, one of Holyman’s Airways
hostesses. Miss Due (her surname is
Norwegian and is pronounced Duie) is
the second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L.
Due, of Malvern. Her interests are wide
and varied, but she always had a lean-
ing towards things mechanical. She’s
an old girl of The Hermitage, Geelong,
gained her A-pilot’s license from the Aero
Club in 1934, completed a course at the
Homecraft Hostel, did first aid and after-
wards had seven months’ training at the
Alfred. She has also studied several sub-
jects at a business college. Mr. and Mrs.
Due’s daughters are all busy young
people. The eldest, Neenoo, has almost
completed her training as a nurse, and
the youngest, Pauline, is doing music at
the Conservatorium.
Captain Holyman took all sorts of
qualifications into consideration when
selecting his two air hostesses from a
couple of hundred applicants. He is a
very progressive young man with a keen
sense of fair play. He set a very high
standard for his successful candidates,
but the social young women with com-
fortable incomes of their own did not
interest him as much as girls who had
been educated to be self-reliant and earn
their own livings.
It is great accomplishment for a local
musician to fill the Town Hall, but
Mauricette MacGillicuddy performed
that feat for her farewell benefit con-
cert. A very-well-organised committee
sponsored by the Conservatorium helped
to ensure the heavy booking ; students
were there in bunches and groups
of school-children occupied whole rows.
It was a very hot night of a hot
week, but the Town Hall is such a vast
inner cavern that inside it was positively
cold. Wraps thrown off with relief on
arrival were slipped back on feminine
shoulders during the interval.
Mauricette (known to her friends as
“Bill”) wore a lovely gown cut on classi-
cal lines, with a train and a long sash
falling from the shoulders; the choice
of heavy oyster satin was advised by
John Longstaff. Singer Thea Phillips,
wearing orchid chiffon with a long cape
of sunray pleating, received lovely flowers,
but Miss MacGillicuddy’s floral gifts
were overwhelming. Her having cards
removed from most of the baskets,
bunches and bouquets before they were
placed on the stage and afterwards sent
to the hospitals was, according to a back-
stage official, the first time that has been
done since the days of Melba. Melba
took her cards home to study at her
leisure ; Bill is going to take hers overseas
to remind her of home. Incidentally, it
has taken this progressive young woman
to buck up the Town Hall stage. Bare
boards and a few half-dead palms have
been the grim “decorations” of the past,
but for last week’s concert there were
feathery green plants, a carpet, a stan-
dard lamp with a soft amber shade and
some old-world tables and chairs —and
the glaring main lights on the roof were
dimmed. It is to be hoped that other
concert artists will profit by the lead.
Under the large hat in the Broothorn
portrait is a visitor to Melbourne, Mrs.
Wolf Klaphake, who is Swedish by birth
and German by marriage. Mrs. Klap-
hake qualified as a doctor of medicine,
but has given up physic for physics, for
she is of great assistance to her scientist
husband. Mr. Klaphake claims that his
invention for condensing water from the
atmosphere will be operable in the hot,
dry areas in inland Australia. A certain
percentage of moisture in the air is neces-
sary, and a wall must be built at the site
of action, but the “plant” is small and
practically works automatically.
Mr. Klaphake has worked for many
years on his invention in Dalmatia, where
climatic conditions are similar to those
of Australia. He and his wife are very
fond of sailing, and they used to cruise
round the Adriatic and camp on un-
habited little dream islands. So far their
only camping in this country has been
at Mildura, where a rustling in the trees
made them think of monkeys, although
they knew it must be possums.
Mrs. Klaphake is disappointed because
she has not yet met an Australian snake
(except in the Zoo), but she has captured
three lizards for study at close quarters.
According to her husband she has a “rep-
tilian fixation,” for she is always thinking
of her “pets’ ” welfare, and every insect
she sees is a prospective meal for one
of them. Besides scientific accomplish-
ments, Mrs. Klaphake is a good linguist,
but her attainments in foreign tongues
are modest compared with her husband’s
gift. The number of languages he speaks
fluently runs well into double figures.
Royal Melbourne Hospital’s almoner
auxiliary held a party at the Wentworth,
profits going towards the maintenance of
an ambulance. Forty-five tables were
booked for bridge, and in addition a few
“odd-men-over” came along to pay their
entrance money and nibble a spot of
supper. President of the committee Mrs.
Edgar Dye wore black chiffon with
elaborate sleeves split to the elbow and
trimmed with wee buttons whose mission
in life was ornamental rather than useful.
The joint ticket secs, were Mrs. A. G.
Lindblade, in black, and Miss D. Smith,
in a gown of cedar-brown lace. Mrs. R.
Hunter, Mrs. H. I. Cohen and Mrs. R. V.
S. McPherson assisted with the organis-
ing, and Mrs. S. Brunning, Audrey Dye,
Noel Kennedy and Gwen Davidson saw
that no one went without sweets.
Nina Murdoch’s passing through Mel-
bourne was a quick hello and good-bye.
Miss Murdoch is in private life Mrs. Dun-
can Brown, but it’s under her maiden
name that she is known as a writer, a
journalist and a speaker over the air. In
Melbourne she managed to find time to
pay her respects to 3LO, where she was
snapped up to make a three minutes’
record of travel, which sounds something
like condensing a full-length novel into
one paragraph.
Mrs. Tom Farrington gave a cocktail
party for the returned traveller, who was
thus able, on her way to Adelaide, to
meet several friends whom otherwise she
would have missed. Miss Murdoch’s
graceful gown was black chiffon of con-
ventional late-afternoon length, and the
clue to,a headpiece was a stiffened mesh
veil turned upwards like a halo on the
brim of a plain little black cap. The
party, which was held at Mrs. F, E. Bell-
main’s home in Balwyn, turned into a
buffet supper and a piece de resistance
of Basil Murphy’s imitations of Gen-
goult Smith opening an exhibition of
pictures and Villeneuve Smith speaking
at a legal dinner.
Another tip-top house filled the King’s
for the opening night of “The Black
Eye.” On the stage Joan Burke as
Elspeth adopted the idea of the two-
piece dinner dress. A long skirt of dull-
surfaced black crepe went with a hip-
length silver tunic made with a slim waist
and the faintest suggestion of stiffened
basque. Auburn-headed Betty Matear
wore the colors expected of her—greens
and browns. One safari-brown taffeta
frock had an ornamental front with a
windmill bow of sunray pleating. Pat-
ricia Isles as Mrs. Scoullar deserves a
line for her get-up of felt slippers,
derelict apron and comical head of hair
in paper curlers.
In the audience were Air Vice-Marshal
and Mrs. Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Turner (who had spent the afternoon at
the marriage of their niece Shirley
Alcock to G. R. Nicholas), Mrs. Shenton
Gordon, elegant in white, Olive Rosen-
thal, in pale amber taffeta, and Thelma
Besant, who, in the interval, told all her
friends that she’d love to see them some
time, but it would have to be when she
returned from England. Youthful Mar-
jorie Matear, wearing gardenias in her
hair, was there to see her sister act.
Titian-headed twins Mrs. F. W. Kitchen
and Mrs. Stewart-Ferguson with their
husbands made a quartet in the stalls. A
subject of conversation in the foyer was
the just-announced engagement of Theo
Syme and Gordon McArthur.
Dr. B. T. Zwar condensed an amount
of commonsense into his opening speech
at Edward Heffernan’s exhibition—one
spot of diffused wisdom was that it’s
better value to buy a picture than (for
instance) a car. Whereas the car loses
value from the first day it is on the road
the picture might make a fortune for you
some day. Young Edward admitted that
he felt a bit hot round the collar at his
first one-man show, but his confidence
increased when so many flattering things
were said to him. It is not surprising
that Dr. and Mrs. Heffernan should have
an artistic son ; the doctor’s hobby is
photography as an art, and his wife cher-
ishes an appreciation of things literary,
and has a little book, The Hand of the
Potter, to her credit. She is modest
about this effort, which comprises
sketches written many years ago in the
bush, not so much for publication as to
keep her hand in and her brain active.
The King’s Memorial Fund has not
yet touched £3000; £12,000 is the sum
aimed at. Many people, generous and
patriotic citizens, are not contributing to
the fund because they believe that, unless
an exceptionally fine statue can be erected
(something as superb in its way as is the
Edinburgh War Memorial), a utility
monument should be provided. The
memorial committee believes that such
suggestions as hospitals, clinics, parks,
etc., smack of the notion of getting some-
thing for nothing, but that view is by
no means universally shared.


The Union Bank of Australia, Limited.
BALANCE SHEET, AUGUST 31, 1935.
LIABILITIES.
Capital authorised . . £12,000,000
Capital iskied ..£12,000,000
Less: Reserve lia-
bility thereon .. 8,000,000
Paid up .. £4,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 3,250,000 0 0
Currency reserve 1,600,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 226,015 16 10
£9,076,015 16 10
Circulation .. £52,456 10 0
Deposits • • 33,429,248 13 2
Bills payable
a n d other
liabilities . . 1,116,666 8 5
£34,598,371 11 7
£43,674,387 8 5
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances.
Bullion and advances on bullion..
Money at call and short notice
in London
Commonwealth Treasury Bills ..
Investments; —
British Government, Common-
wealth of Australia Government
and New Zealand municipal
securities
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office
£4,599,246 1 0
81,328 11 1
330,000 0 0
1,685,000 0 0
3,101,250 14 4
2,030,245 19 W
£11,827,071 6 «
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and
in London (after making pro-
vision for bad and doubtful
debts and contingencies) . . £31,472,829 11 U
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less
amounts written off .. .. 286,600 o'o
London leasehold
premises at cost £ 142,304 19 4
Less: Reserves
against same
and accrued
interest .. 54,418 9 4
. 87,886 10 0
£43,674,387 8 5
London. January 7, 1936.
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on August 31, 1931 ..
Less: Dividend, January, 1935
Leaving a balance of ..
Profits of the past year, after making provision in respect
of bad and doubtful debts, and other contingencies.. ..£1,034,618
JKeb. 1934. Less:
£474,831 Salaries and allowances to the Australian
and New Zealand staff .. .. ..£487,293 18 8
114,724 General expenses in Australia and New Zea-
land—including rent, rates, stationery, etc. 117,305 7 4
9,000 Directors’ fees . . . . .. £ 9000 0 0
3,393 Income tax paid thereon .. 2455 810
11,455 8 10
48,796 Salaries of London office staff, audit fee,
rent, rates, stationery and general expenses 48,096 3 2
137,039 United Kingdom, Australian and New Zealand
taxes .. .. .. .. .. .. 155,482 10 1
819,633
£807,683
Less: Interim Dividend, July, 1935
Balance of undivided profits at this date ..
E. W. PARKER HUGH FLOWER, M. N. HOGG, Directors.
W. A. LAING, Manager. S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
.. £211,030 18 4
. . 100,000 0 0
.. £111,030 18 <
6 7
214,984 18 f
£326,015 16 1-
.. 100,000 o'■
.. £226,015 16 1-
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act, t Q -
we report to the Members as follows:
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office an-
have had access to the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office
Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the correctness of the Cash,
at Call and Short Notice, Investments, and the Bills of Exchange held in Lon on
and having obtained all the information and explanations we have require . '
are of opinion that such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhi
true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the b e ®
our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books o
Company and the said Branch Accounts.
London, January 7, 1936. WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
General Manager for Australasia W. A. LEITCH, E s(l
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA: MELBOURNE.
Manager at Sydney (corner Pitt and Hunter Streets) A. E. B. GOODE)
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Capt. Frank Hussey and Hilda McCue
played star roles in the first wedding on
Rottnest Island. The launch Dauntless
carried bride and guests from the main-
land, escorted by the ’groom, who is
supervising work in connection with the
fortifications of the island. An altar was
erected in the music room of the hostel.
Dressing of onlookers was unorthodox,
holiday-makers appearing in slacks,
shorts and sweaters; The bride’s tradi-
tional white satin, with its Medici collar,
lavish pearl embroideries and gold-leaf
coroneted veil, looked well beside the
’groom’s uniform. The cake-cutting
with his sword brought rounds of
applause.
Mary Ward, of the sleek, straight
shingle, stepped her way into citizenship
at a dance given by her parents at the
R.A.C. The three box-seaters chose
black for their raiment; Mrs. A. K.
Ward’s was of unrelieved satin, Mrs.
Ward, senr., flecked her matt crepes with
white and the twenty-one-year-old
attached a huge bow to the front of her
bouffant taffetas.
W.A. is proud of 17-year-old June
Epstein, the first musician in the Com-
monwealth to secure the Trinity College
Overseas Scholarship. At fifteen June
could write L. Mus. A., L.A.B. after her
name, with the distinction of gaining the
highest marks for Australia in the
Associated Board exam., and the number
of her prizes and medals runs into a
good round figure. She is to leave at
the end of the year for England to study
pianoforte and composition.
The Pleiades Club started its season
with an evening of music and drama at
the McNess Hall. President Florence
Armstrong, in trailing cream and red
chiffon, welcomed members and outlined
the club’s aims and objects. Songs from
Dorothy Porter were mixed with piano-
forte solos by Joan Fry. Barrie’s “Seven
Women,” played by Gwen Bickford,
Dulcie Armstrong, Percy Cannot and
Frank O’Grady, was a popular item.
Most of our parties are in honor of
arriving or departing travellers. Lady
Carson was morning tea’d at the
Adelphi by Mrs. W. P. Seed. Dr. and
Mrs. F. E. Wall, Miss Wall and Miss
McMahon, of Sydney, were A, Wans-
borough’s guests at luncheon, and K.
Culey paused on his way to Greece to
take a midday meal with Dr. and Mrs.
Theodore Ambrose.
A family dinner party at Mr. and Mrs.
W. L. Brine’s home in Mt. Lawley was
the kick-off of Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Wright’s golden wedding celebrations.
Floral decorations were in aureate tones,
and granddaughter Judy Brine presented
Mrs. Wright with a bouquet of golden
roses. Later, some 150 friends gathered
at a hall where gifts were presented to
the couple.
Mrs. Everard Darlot topped her black
matt crepes with an osprey plumed hat
when she poured cocktails to welcome
her daughter, Mrs. Delmar-Morgan, and
Mary Irving on their arrival from Eng-
land' The eighty guests congregated at
the Esplanade Hotel, where gladioli and
roses made a fitting background for Mrs.
Delmar-Morgan’s black crepe satin suit
and Miss Irving’s trim eau-de-Nil
matelasse.
The 55 specimens of modern pottery
presented to the Perth Art Gallery by
the Wedgwood firm are on view at the
entrance of the Museum. Dr. Battye,
who selected the pieces at the company’s
works near Stoke-on-Trent, did his job
well. There are samples of Keith
Murray ware, moonstone, plain black
basalt, plain, fancy, decorated and cane-
colored ware. A moonstone-ware exhibit
is a statuette of a kangaroo.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Weather was calm and bright for the
racing at Cheltenham. Chairman J. H.
Morish and his wife entertained at
luncheon and afternoon-tea. Dr. A. V.
Benson made his first appearance after
a long illness. Mrs. Morish looked well
in a white cloth tailored ensemble, the
coat three-quarter length, and a wide-
brimmed white felt hat. Mrs. S. J.
Jacobs chose black marocain and a black
ballibuntal hat trimmed with mauve velvet
orchids. A Melbourne visitor, Mrs. E.
F. Williams, made a success of a brown
and beige ensemble. Her hostess, Mrs.
W. P. A. Lapthorne, was a contrast in a
cream tailored suit. Mrs. H. Allan
Morris’s brown-green jacket frock went
with a brown ballibuntal straw hat. Mrs.
S. R. Symonds brightened her black
georgette with a posy of violets. Mrs.
Albyn Rankine wore a maize triple georg-
ette and a large hat. Mrs. L. M. Darby’s
brown-flowered chiffon frock was worn
with a hat of brown straw. Mrs. Walter
Kidman’s tailored suit and a hat of
coarse white straw were all white. Mar-
garet Bickford topped a black silk frock,
coin-spotted in white, with a stitched
black tam beret. Jean Butler, daughter
of the Premier, who has been elected
Queen of Racing in connection with the
Lord Mayor’s relief fund campaign, was
in a navy-and-white silk frock with a
large navy ribbon bow at the neck, and
her hat was a navy-blue straw. Mrs.
Michael Kelly (W.A.) was there in pale-
green floral georgette and a large natural-
toned straw hat.
Among those who watched the inter-
state tennis tournament at Memorial
Drive was Mrs. Kenneth Sawers, in dark-
blue-and-white-patterned crepe de Chine
and a hat of navy straw. Mrs. H. J. Lip-
man’s orchid mauve crepe frock went
with a wide-brimmed white straw hat.
Mrs. G. Hone chose a Marina-blue linen
suit with three-quarter coat and a coarse
cire straw hat in the same shade banded
with navy. Connie Lonsdale sported
white silk patterned with pale green and
gold. So many players of both sexes
wore white shorts that it was difficult to
tell which was which.
The Treasure Market, conducted in the
Exhibition Building on behalf of the
Free Kindergartens, proved a great suc-
cess. Produce, cakes and sweets found
a ready sale. A department for second-
hand evening frocks was the Bonython
lady’s suggestion. The treasure stall car-
ried articles in many instances quite
costly. After a good sale Ross Coles dis-
posed of the treasures left over by auc-
tion. Lady Dugan and the Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. H. H. Dunstan) were
entertained at afternoon tea by the
Bonython lady.
TASMANIA.
Newnham races came off in the fine
weather —too fine —which has prevailed
uninterruptedly in the north for weeks
on end. Women came in autumn frock-
ings, nevertheless, and very charming
some of them were. Browns and various
shades of misty reds looked well. A
good many southerners motored up, but
mainland visitors are thinning out now.
Mrs. Alan Mclntyre hostessed a late-
afternoon party at her own home for
the Spivakovski-Kurtz trio at the end
of their broadcasting engagement here.
About 30 musically-minded guests en-
joyed the doings.
The 86 Club ran a gay supper-party
at its rooms after the first night of the
Rep. Soc.’s performance of “Other
Men’s Wives.” Eileen Crow, Philip Har-
bottle and Linus Donelly arranged the
show.
Mrs. Walter Marks (Sydney), who
has been staying for some time with the
E. H. Websters, Greystanes, Sandy Bay,
said her farewells at a late-afternoon
party at the Queen Mary Club. Daugh-
ter Joan, who has been the guest of
Betty Giblin, helped her mother to do
the honors. Mrs. Marks looked smart
in an all-black supple-satin rig with
cape, and small black velvet hat with
eye veil. Joan wore a printed pink-and-
black frock with black hat.
Miss Seal’s party at the Queen Mary
Club was a welcome to her sister, Mrs.
Ainslie Wood, who has come from Adel-
aide with her husband and son on holi-
day. About 50 guests were invited.
The McMinns, who sailed for England
in the Orontes, bade their friends good-
bye at a party in a private dining-saloon
just before sailing. The travellers expect
to be away about 18 months.
Dr. J. F. Gaha opened the 52nd ex-
hibition of the Tas. Art Society at the
Art Gallery. Commercial art is more
and more represented at each of these
shows, and the modernist tendency is
also growing. Harry Kelly’s clear color-
ing and firm touch came as a relief after
much indefinite drawing. C. L. Allport,
L. Dechaineux, Ethel Nicholls, Mabel
Hookey and Joseph Connor also showed
good work.
Pat Davies and air-pilot K. M. Frewin
disappointed their friends of a showy
wedding and were quietly married at the
Melbourne C. of E. Grammar School
chapel. The bride is the daughter of the
late C. R. Davies, of Hobart. Her frock
of grey-and-black cloque had a small
black hat to top it, and she wore silver-
fox furs. The ’groom is with Holyman
Airways.
Kate (“Kath”) Bradshaw Major, an-
nouncer at 380 Bendigo, is engaged to
Captain H. Armstrong, of the Blue
Steamship line.
Mrs. Warlow-Davies sailed in the
Orontes for England, where she will visit
her son Eric at Oxford.
QUEENSLAND.
Janice Walsh and Michael Thwaites,
who were married quietly at St. Augus-
tine’s, Hamilton, left for Sydney, where
they will join a boat for Maoriland. There
was no reception, but a few nights before
the wedding Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Walsn
entertained them at a cocktail party at
the Moreton Club. Mrs. Percy Walker,
who was down from Glenlyon, also
gave a party for the bride-elect. Mrs.
Hugo Brassey was guest of honor.
Mrs. Scott Fletcher was elected presi-
dent of the Arts and Crafts Society at the
annual meeting, when the retiring presi-
dent, Mrs. Bruce Shearer, and the hon.
sec., Phyl Vincent-Smith, produced a
satisfactory report. During the year, 40
children at Montrose were taught leather-,
pottery- and raffia-work by members, and
their work was displayed at the Royal
National Show, as well as filling a stall
for the home fete.
The thirteenth annual conference of
the S. Division of the Country Women’s
Association has been going strong
in Toowoomba, and the discussions
have included almost everything from
cabbages to kings. Mrs. Mat Sawyer,
N.S.W. State president, spoke earnestly
against the cocktail-drinking habit, especi-
ally among girls. Smoking, she conceded,
was a matter for the individual.
Pretty Nancy Barrow, not long back
from England and Europe, has just an-
nounced her engagement to William
Butcher, who was engineer-in-charge
when the Bingera’s internal arrangements
were being fitted, and whose hand was
on the controls when she made her
maiden voyage to Australia.
Alice McConachie and Celia Hood,
Edinburgh girls, have been visiting
friends in Queensland. They stayed with
the Duncan Nelsons in Toowoomba, and
now are with the McConnels at Cress-
brook. Prof, and Mrs. Michie gave
them a party in Brisbane.
The Choral and Dramatic Circle of the
Catl l ol ‘ c Daughters of Australia gave a
musical tea-party, and decorated the
rooms i av i s hly with zinnias and mari-
golds. Proceeds were divided between
the association and the Ist Catholic
Rangers, a newly-formed body,
The rev ival of the matriculation cere-
mony brought hordes of freshers and
jbeir friends to the University. Deans,
members of the Senate and the staff,
duates and undergra duates all rallied
" see the freshers sign their names
an ,f th f make their bow to the Chan-
cellor, knight James Blair, very dignified
m 1S gold-and-black robes. This is a
memorable year lor Queens an Um.,
for > thanks to T. C. Beirne and the Gov-
ernment, there are three new acu ics
“ law > medicine and veterinary science,
Back after a world tour are Captain
and Mrs. P. H. Moody. In America
P.H. tried out various ’planes and
bought a Stinson Reliant, which now is in
Brisbane. The two stayed with Roy
Brown, who runs an air service from
Winnipeg to the North Canadian gold-
fields. One trip they made with him was
in a ’plane fitted with skis so that it
could land on frozen lakes,
Queensland’s new District Naval Corn-
mandant, Commander E. C. Rhodes, his
charming dark-haired wife and his two
small daughters have arrived in Brisbane,
This is Mrs. Rhodes’s second visit as a
schoolgirl she came up from Melbourne
with her father to a medical conference,
Tennis, golf and contract bridge are her
chief amusements,
xhe George Greens are off on a world
tour very shortly. They expected to
depart without fuss, but their friends
have killed that ambition. Fifi Billing-
ton gave a cocktail party for them at her
home, Henry Horstmann staged a dinner
at the Belle Vue, the F. Z. Eagers gave
a dinner at the National and the Bruce
Pyes arranged a “fork” party with bridge.


Final Announcement
THE PRESS ARE UNANIMOUS IN THEIR UNQUALIFIED APPROVAL
"SIDNEY MORNING HERALD” —cautious, but very favorable.
“SUNDAY SUN”: “Worthy of consideration.”
JOBSON’S INVESTMENT DIGEST”; “The proposition has much to recommend
it....should prove reasonably satisfactory.”
“DAILY COMMERCIAL NEWS AND SHIPPING LIST”: “No more encouraging
proposition ha s been offered for public subscription for many years.”
‘SMITH’S WEEKLY”; “Caro Court, Limited, should prove an attractive pro-
position.”
“TRUTH”: “Caro Court, Limited, shares are worth enquiry. There is no sensible
reason why a project operating modern and up-to-date flats should not
do well.”
“SYDNEY MAIL”: “The proposal is worth investigation.”
“FARMER. & SETTLER”: “An ambitious, but sound, proposition, and the first
opening for the small investor to join with high finance in equally high
returns.’-
“THE CHURCH STANDARD”: “With the well-balanced directorate, the propo-
sition should be an excellent investment.”
“FREEMAN’S JOURNAL”: “Controlled by practical people, who are intent on
meeting an urgent public necessity in a well-considered and financially
sound way, should give most satisfactory results.”
“COMMERCIAL NEWS AND SHIPPING”: No more encouraging proposition has
been offered for public subscription for many years.”
“HEBREW STANDARD”; “Intensely practical and satisfactory profit-making
deak”
CARO COURT LIMITED
Capital: £130,000 in £1 Shares.
In’nnn Shares were offered for Public subscription, payable 5/- on application, 5/- on allotment, and two calls of 5/- each at intervals of one month
bO.OOO Shares are held in Reserve.
ONLY A FEW SHARES ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THIS SAFE, SOUND AND LUCRATIVE
INVESTMENT. APPLY AT ONCE.
AH Shares must be paid for in cash. No Free Shares to anyone.
Present investors are leaders in Finance, Professional, Business, Company and Public Life of Sydney,
Follow their Example Immediately.
DIRECTORS:
ALD. CHESTER W. DAVIES (retired Builder), 6 South Street, Woollahra.
JOHN EVERETT BEST (Manufacturer), Moore Park Road, Paddington.
EDWARD M. DAVIES (Consulting Engineer), 2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
BANK: SOLICITORS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES. Messrs. ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY.
Head Office: George Street, Sydney. 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs, STARKEY & STARKEY, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Grace Building, King Street, Sydney.
ARCHITECTS; Messrs. JOSELAND & GILLING, 8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
II
1
ffl
SS'IISH
! «
i |
«X
ie
J
aiijil
m
I I
i
I
4 ' K
yr
\
It is proposed to erect a building containing 276 Flats which for modern conveniences, comfort, general and social services offered will be unequalled
by any other building of its kind in Australia.
Tbe increasing demand for this type of home is so urgent that even the large number of flats included in Caro Court will satisfy but a very small part
The loss in possible home requirements for the five years ending 1934 was over 39,000 homes. In the past year of intense building activity, this loss
er I ” c . re t sed - Th . e , re were ,2 > 377 marriages—a record for the Metropolitan area—but only 7808 homes were built for them. An additional loss
of 4500 possible homes without consideration for the growth of population.
A further feature of a building of this size is that it allows the Company to provide more elegant flats at cheaper rentals, owing to the lower cost of
overhead expenditure; affording a greater range of inquiries from which it will be possible to secure a carefully-selected group of permanent tenants.
Ihe lower cost of overhead expenditure can be better appreciated when it is remembered that buildings of 12 flats or less must have managerial and
cleaning staffs. With one manager and a small properly-organised cleaning staff combined with other services, which will be profit producing, the expenses
of Caro Court will be relatively low.
Based on minimum rentals and maximum expenses, the estimated nett profit on the completion and addition of each part is as follows:
hirst part, 14 per cent ; second part, 13 per cent; third part, 15.8 per cent.; fourth part, 15.8 per cent.; and on the whole building, 16.8 per cent, nett profit.
, ~,.l he maintenance of these rates will enhance the value of the shares more than twofold. Allowing for alO per cent, loss of rental on the completed
building, the return is over 14 per cent, nett profit; whilst for an extreme estimate of 20 per cent, loss in rentals the return is over 11 per cent, nett profit.
Contrast this with a similar loss in rentals sustained on buildings of from 4 to 40 flats, and note what a loss of income will result.
And yet it cannot be said that those men who have been building flats up to the present, and will in the future, are lacking in knowledge of investment
vaiue when it is realised that the money they are expending is what they were level-headed enough to hold to during the past depression.
1 he site of the flats is at corners of Miller, Blue and William streets, dominates the whole City and its environs, with a view only bounded by the horizon
in every direction.
* “ unusually profitable and perfectly safe. It warrants your immediate attention. MAKE YOUR APPLICATION NOW,
Prospectuses are available at the Company’s Registered Office, United Chambers, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney
APPLICATION FORM.
CARO COURT LIMITED
TO
THE SECRETARY,
2 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
~ y We here £y a PP|y f°J •••••••••■ shares in the abovenamed Company, upon the terms of
the Company Prospectus, dated 6th February, 1936, which I /we have read, and which is the sole basis of
my/our application for shares.
I/We hereby agree to accept same, or such smaller number of shares as may be allotted to me/us, and
1/we authorise you to register me/us as shareholders of such shares.
I/We enclose herewith £....... / / —, being 5/- per share on application, and I/we agree to pay 5/- per
share on allotment, and to pay the balance in calls of 5/- per share at intervals of not less than one month.
NAME IN FULL
Address Occupation
Date Ordinary Signature
Shares may be reserved by Telegram pending arrival of application, or telephone 83310. B-18-3-36.
APPLICATION FOR PROSPECTUS.
Caro Court Limited
Please forward me a copy of your Pros-
pectus and Literature relating to Caro Court,
Limited.
Name in full
Address
’Phone 83310, when prospectus will be
forwarded. b- 18-3-36.


Replace worn
Valves with
ë
Milliard
The
Master
Valve
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Set« from £3/10/*
Radio Accessories at give-away price*,
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
RADIO NEWS
RADIO “TRAFFIC COP” STATION.
By
DON B. KNOCK.
The United States Government radio
monitoring station at Grand Island,
Nebraska, on the broad, flat prairies near
the geographical centre of U.S.A., is the
only one of its kind in the world. It was
established in 1930 and has as its job
the checking of all broadcasting stations,
including commercial ones, to see that
they stay on their own wave-lengths.
It is, in fact, a kind of traffic police-
man of the air.
Sixty acres of flat prairie lands are
covered with tall, white poles, three times
as high as the average telephone pole,
from which are strung a bewilder-
ing maze of antennae wires. There
are three groups of about 50 poles
each, the wires so arranged that
they point toward London, Rome and
South America. Through these aerials
the operators of the monitoring station
can tune in any station in the U.S.A.,
and very nearly any station in the world.
The actual testing of a commercial
station is not a highly-complicated affair.
The operators notify the station to
broadcast continuously for an hour so
they can check it. The programme is
tuned in on one of the sets, and is con-
nected with an electric tuning fork
vibrating to a known wave-length. By
listening through attached earphones, the
operator can easily determine if the
station is on correct wave-length.
If it is not, he telephones the station
and states what the variation is, so that it
may be corrected. There are several
thousand sending stations in the United
States, so operators have plenty to keep
them busy.
Two steel cages surrounded by a kind
of steel chicken-wire also occupy the
room. One of these is the control booth
and the other contains timing instru-
ments. Between them stands a clock
which receives star time continuously
by radio from Arlington observa-
tory, Washington. Any difference of
time can be checked to the merest frac-
tion of a second.
The clock, which is on a solid cement
post set deep into the ground through a
hole in the floor and not touching the
frame construction of the building,
is kept at an even temperature by a
special heating unit with thermostatic
control, and is in as near a complete
vacuum as science cun provide.
Grand Island station picks up many
of the transatlantic broadcasts, and
recently broadcasts from a stratosphere
balloon were sent on to New York by
telephone.
All telegraph, telephone and electric-
power lines for several miles around are
put underground, for they would inter-
fere with the delicate receiving instru-
ments. The station generates its own
power, for a power line coming in from
the outside would also deflect the in-
struments.
An aviation beacon-light flashes all
night above the mass of aerial poles to
warn away any stray aeroplanes that
might try to land and crash into the
wires.
The Coming of Television.
The early history of television will
necessarily differ from that of sound
broadcasting for two critical reasons.
There is no apparatus for receiving tele-
vision comparable in simplicity and
cheapness with the crystal set, and the
range of stations is limited by certain
physical factors over which engineering
can exercise no control.
For these reasons, television cannot
hope to grow with the incredible rapidity
with which broadcasting covered Great
Britain and the U.S.A. in 1922 and 1923.
When television programmes from the
new 8.8. C. station at the Alexandra
Palace start this year, they will be capable
Mr. Tom Elliott, television authority at Observatory Tower, Brisbane ,
Queensland. The cathode-ray tube he is holding is used in high-definition
experiments —the first of the kind in Australia.
of reception only by people in the London
area. In addition, these programmes will
be experimental in every sense of the
word. Apart from the many technical
problems attending the inauguration of
a regular service by methods as yet com-
paratively untried, the programme side
itself is virtually a virgin field. Both the
resources and the limitations of high-
definition television have yet to be ex-
plored.
It may be some time before television
becomes more than a luxury supplement
to sound broadcasting. The Television
Committee estimated that 10 ultra-short
wave stations would be necessary to serve
50 per cent, of the populaiion, so it is
obvious that the one station at the Alex-
andra Palace will possess only an
academic interest for the bulk of listeners.
But the importance of a new development
is not always proportionate to its initial
effects, and the coming of television will
prove in the long run to have been the
most momentous happening in radio
history.
Courtesy the B.B.C.
“The Shadow.”
Such is the name given to a form of
interference with radio reception recently
rife in U.S.A. It started in October,
1935, and many radio services, broad-
casting and commercial, were troubled by
a gargly A.C. note which parked for
some time on particularly inconvenient
frequencies and then moved a few hun-
dred kilocycles with a repetition of the
performance. “QST” (U.S.A.) says that
“it was heard on the West Coast and in
England, and the British communica-
tions system reported it similarly in
India, Egypt and Australia. Countless
amateurs found it squirming its way
through their bands.” Observations
with oscilloscopes established that there
was not a single “shadow,” but
many! The local trouble was finally
run to earth in a Boston athletic club,
and proved to be nothing more or less
than a “diathermy” or “inductotherm”
machine for heat therapy. The installa-
tion at this particular club was then
keyed with a CQ wheel, and the interfer-
ence was at once reported from Phila-
delphia, Norfolk, Washington, Bellevue
and Great Lakes. Many athletic clubs
possess these devices, to say nothing of
hospitals and doctors, so that the problem
is likely to be a pretty one, with world-
wide effects. It was found that the
therapy installations causing the most
trouble have an input of 250 watts, and
feed raw A.C. to the plates of an oscil-
lator in a parallel-fed circuit. Several
such outfits are known to be contem-
plated, under construction, or in use
around Sydney and other Australian
cities. Probably, the broadcast-listener
public will, as usual, lay the blame on
the nearest and perfectly innpcent ama-
teur transmitter for allegedly causing
interference. With these therapy outfits
cluttering up the air, high-definition
television is likely to cause announcers
to sprout green whiskers, and radio will
become hideous. It is just one more
worry for the radio inspectors of the
P.M.G.’s Department.
All-wave T.R.F. Design.
An unusual tuned R.F. receiver has put
in an appearance in U.S.A. It is particu-
larly interesting, and not just because
it uses metal valves. The circuit diagram
shows the essentials of the receiver. The
superheterodyne has achieved popularity
in short-wave commercial design, mainly
because the regeneration control of the
tuned R.F. receiver is not necessary. In
this tuned R.F. receiver the usual auto-
dyne detector has been dispensed with,
and in its place is the combination of a
plain detector and a separate oscillator.
The second 6K7 in the circuit is the de-
tector and the 6C5 below is the oscillator,
The usual advantages of regeneration are
there, but operation and control are
stated to be far superior to the auto-
dyne. No details are given of the coils,
but this is a matter of the usual experi-
mentation for each wave-band. As the
oscillator plate circuit is untuned by any
variable condenser it will be seen that the
inductance m this part of the circuit will
have a broad characteristic to beat tun-
damentally with the detector frequency.
An alternative scheme would be to use a
tuned grid circuit in the oscillator, at half
the detector frequency, using the second
harmonic to beat with the detector,
thus reducing unwanted coupling. The
receiver design has good points, and is
well worth experiment.
Advertising Australia.
“Brader”: A. S. Rynehart, of Waver-
ley, N.S.W., started something when he
responded to a request from an American
short-wave station. He has been a con-
stant short-wave listener for over seven
years, and has enjoyed many a pleasant
hour during Australian summer mornings
listening to pioneer station KDKA, of
Pittsburg, Penn., U.S.A., during that
station’s afternoon session. Rising at
6 a.m. for the purpose, he has recently
been concentrating on WBXK, the short-
wave station relaying KDKA, to enjoy
a session of “Mirth and Melody” con-
ducted by Glenn Riggs, KDKA
announcer. In appreciation of this
session, Mr. Rynehart wrote KDKA and
invited anybody who would like to know
something of Australia to write. The
station mentioned the offer over the air,
and the result is a deluge of letters show-
ing a surprising interest in Australia.
Scores of them have been received, all
seeking information on Australian habits,
customs, etc. It serves to show how
intense interest in other countries can
and will be aroused by means of radio—
an argument for a flock of high-powered
Australian short-wave stations.
What’s What in Radio.
Thomas S. McCaleb, an instructor at
Harvard University (U.S.A.), announces
the invention of a new type of burglar
alarm operating on radio principles and
utilising an ultra-short-wave transmitter
and receiver at opposite sides of the room
to be protected. The transmitter sends
out signals on a wave-length of 0.7 metre.
These signals are reflected back and
forth by the walls of the room in an
almost infinite number of paths before
reaching the receiver. A body coming
into the room acts as a mirror, reflecting
the radio waves, thus changing the inten-
sity of the signal picked up by the
receiver, and the change can be made
to operate an alarm. By suitable record-
ing apparatus, the movements of the
person in the room can be noted.
Since the entire interior of the room is
occupied by the numerous reflected
waves, this type of detector represents a
distinct improvement over the photo-cell
type.
* * * *
“Athanasius”: Logging 248 stations
(none of them short wave) on a stan-
dard model six-valve set in 11 months,
Mr. J. Sullivan, of Cambridge (MX.),
beat the world in a contest conducted by
the International DX Association, and
received for his patience a handsome
gold, silver and bronze trophy valued at
£lOO. He had to face the disadvantage
of a condition that made Australian
stations not available for M.L. listeners.
His list of 39 countries heard on the
broadcast bands is claimed to be a world
record. The stations logged include 39
European, 26 Japanese, 100 American,
16 Mexican, 21 Canadian and many
Cuban and Siamese.
$ $
Roval Air Force detachments on duty
in the North-West Frontier Province of
India have found an even better way of
dealing with unruly tribesmen on the
warpath than bombing them from aloft.
A ’plane was tested with microphone-
amplifier-loudspeaker combination f° r
the effect of broadcasting verbal warn-
ings in the local language over tribal vil-
lages. So good were the results thpt
Vickers-Valentia aeroplanes have beep
specially fitted with microphones, ampli-
fiers and twin loudspeakers of large size
built into the lower part of the fuselage.
Other machines similarly equipped are
to be used, not only on the North-v\es.


Vs
iIM
£ ■
m
m
Ml'.'M'M
The Razor that Really Shaves
c D w Pfl Steel Black Handle 12/6; with guard, 16/-
I Iro Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
TnF ° 'p-HJM BAZOK GUAKD, for fin., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CKAIG & AITKEN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keut in order for two
years free of charge.
The Imported
ULTIMATE
10-valve all-wave
de luxe chassis
and speaker
(the most outstanding all-wave
receiver yet introduced on the
Australian market) is now avail-
able to the public as a unit for
incorporation in existing consoles.
Write us for full particulars.
GEORGE BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also N.S.W. Distributors for —
Kola Loudspeakers.
Mallard Radio Valves.
Van Kuyten Car and Launch Radio.
Frontier but also in other places where
the Air Force has to deal from time to
time with similar trouble.
* * * *
With the completion by the British
Post Office of a high-frequency cable
between the G.P.O. and Birmingham, the
question of a television ’phone service is
being discussed.
* * * *
A new use has been found for tele-
vision in an Amsterdam factory, accord-
ing to the “Germania Review.” Fitted
in the manager’s office are a number of
television screens linked with the various
departments. On pressing a switch, the
manager can see and hear what is going
on in any part of the building. Details
are lacking as to the system employed
and the amount of definition.
Amateur Chatter.
The writer has just completed a modern
single signal superhet on Frank Jones’s
lines, following the Super Gainer design
in “Radio” (U.S.A.), but, for the time
being, made minus the quartz crystal
filter. Initial tests reveal that for all
practical purposes such a filter is unneces-
sary. Of all receivers yet used by the
writer, this is indeed the shining star. It
will be described in detail on this page
in the near future. A regenerative 6C6
detector, with 76 oscillator, is followed by
a 6D6 I.F. stage and 79 regenerative
second detector. The intermediate trans-
formers are Aladdin iron core, and more
than justify their inclusion. Although
transformers of this make are not nor-
mally obtainable in Australia, there are
several iron-core makes now putting in
an appearance. From the moment the
receiver was lined up and tested, DX
’phone stations which previously were
only a weak carrier were heard and
understood. The combined second de-
tector and beat frequency oscillator work
perfectly, and altogether the receiver is
a revelation.
It is proposed in the near future to
hold a 100 p.c. amateur radio exhibi-
tion in Sydney, organised by the W.I.A.
This is a good move ; in past radio ex-
hibitions the humble amateur exhibit has
been a great source of public interest.
The amateurs have always something new
to show, and the public likes to see the
efforts of young men who do things with
their own hands and brains.
First Division Cavalry Signals of the
militia, with H.Q. at Moore Park, Syd-
ney, has vacancies for a few signalmen
recruits. Amateur operators who wish to
graduate in military signals communi-
cation are welcomed. Applications should
be made in person to the adjutant.
Major T. Farrow.
It is interesting to reflect on the vast
differences in radio communication of
to-day and that of a few years ago. In
1927 the writer put forward in an Austra-
lian monthly a plea for amateurs to make
use of 20 metres, urging that the band
was being wasted, and that it was capable
of unexpected and satisfying results. On
the afternoon of 8/ 3 / ’36, when a new
receiver was tested on 20, the band was
literally teeming. American ’phones, few
of them at less than R 7, were covering the
dial, interspersed by Australians with
’phones of all kinds, getting in swift two-
way conversations. It was a veritable
medley, and on the usual regenerative
autodyne must have been chaotic. With
the Jones Super Gainer it was a sheer
delight. This receiver handles just as
nicely on 10 metres, and on 40 it goes
a long way to the solution of the local
QRM problem.
Latest P.M.G. list shows new callsigns
allocated in the VK2 district with three
letters; VKs 2ABC, 2ABD, etc., have
put in an appearance. Foreigners fall
over each other to work VK three-letter
stations, and the operators of these new
stations should run up a lengthy DX bag
in short order. It is rather strange that
VK calls do not start with a first dis-
trict, such as VKI. The reason for this
is not clear. On a political basis, Can-
berra territory should be VKI.
VK2NO.
New A.W.A. Radiolas.
The 1936 Radiola receivers, shown for
the first time at the Sydney Radio Ex-
hibition, incorporate straight-line tuning.
The new dial is rectangular, and is cali-
brated with nearly 100 Australasian
stations, grouped according to States.
Illumination is indirect, and only the
callsigns are lighted. Those models
which receive stations all over the
world have individual illumination for
each of the wave ranges, and are
equipped with automatic vernier tuning
control. This device includes an auto-
matic dual-ratio drive which, without
adjustment, permits either tuning rapidly
from one station to another or slowly
for any particular station. Rotation of
the tuning knob for more than one revo-
lution in either direction engages a cam
whichs operates the tuning condensers at
fast speed, so long as the same direction
of rotation is maintained. The reverse
rotation of the knob gives a high-ratio
vernier drive for approximately one
revolution, beyond which the lower ratio
again engages and the fast-speed cam
operates until rotation is again reversed.
Features of the new Radiolas are in-
creased sensitivity, particularly on the
short-wave range. This is obtained by
new chassis layout and the development
of new tuning coils giving higher gain.
Intermediate-frequency transformers have
also been redesigned. These have sym-
metrical characteristics and the wide
band width necessary for high-fidelity
reproduction as well as providing higher
gain and added selectivity. An important
feature is the elimination of feed-back
between circuits, resulting in greater sta-
bility and tone quality of high standard.
The power units have been improved,
employing capacity with large overload
factor. The smoothing circuits have
been increased, giving quieter operation.
A convenient arrangement for a short-wave receiver. The coils plug in through
the panel, with the coil socket fitted inside a screen. The receiver is Don. B.
Knock’s Wide-World Two type, modified for amateur communication only.
A feature of the larger world-range
Radiolas is the automatic sensitivity
booster, by which sensitivity is auto-
matically increased when the set is tuned
on short wave-lengths.
There is a particular demand in Aus-
tralia for long-distance reception, and
to meet these conditions A.W.A. Valve
Co. has developed a series of battery-
operated valves combining greater se-
lectivity and greater economy in opera-
tion. One particular advantage of these
valves is that they are non-microphonic.
There is a complete range of new
Radiolas for all requirements in city and
country. Prices range from 15 guineas
for electric models and from 19 guineas
for battery and world-range models.
Free Talks to London.
A thrill experienced by many people
who visited the Electrical and Radio
Show at the Sydney Town Hall was
actual wireless telephone conversation
with London or Wellington, M.L. These
free radio conversations were made pos-
sible by co-operation between A.W.A.
and the postal departments in Aus-
tralia, Britain and M.L. The overseas
wireless telephone services have been m
operation for less than six years, but are
already extensively used for communi-
cations with all parts of the world.
In fact, it is now possible for anyone
in Australia to go to a telephone and
book a call to any one of some
33,000,000 telephone subscribers in
almost every country. Like international
telegraph services, the overseas wireless
telephone service can be termed “world-
wide.” The direct wireless telephone
service between Sydney and London is
the longest telephone service in the world.
The transmitting station and the receiv-
ing apparatus were wholly designed and
manufactured in Australia at the Ash-
field (Sydney) works of Amalgamated
Wireless.
The Australian Radio Industry.
E.T. Fisk Gives Particulars.
In a recent broadcast speech E. T. Fisk,
senior vice-president of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Manufacturers, stated that the radio industry
in Australia gives continuous employment,
directly and indirectly, to 15,000 people.
There is invested in the industry something like
£3,000,000, and it benefits the community by
stimulating the circulation of money to the
extent of something like £6,000,000 p.a.
The manufacture of radio apparatus was
commenced in Sydney in 1913, in a compara-
tively small works in Clarence-street, princi-
pally for providing communication between
ships and the shore. The Australian forces in
Palestine, in Gallipoli and in France were
equipped with Australian-made wireless appa-
ratus, and Australian troopships were also
equipped. But perhaps more interesting than
that is the fact that ships built in the dockyards
of Japan and China to the order of the British
Government were also fitted with wireless
plants made in Sydney.
To-day every piece of wireless apparatus
used in the homes of 750,000 Australian
licensed listeners has been made in Australian
factories. The making of that apparatus is
a complex affair. In each receiving instrument
there are something like 700 separate parts,
and Australian factories turn out between
100,000 and 200,000 of such instruments every
year. Every part has to be separately de-
signed, every piece of material has to be sepa-
rately considered and calculated, the whole
must be brought together in the factories at
(be right time to commence production, and
as all these different parts are made they must
flow in a continuous stream to the final place
where they are assembled into a complete
instrument. And as they progress through
those stages they are subject to very careful
and elaborate tests to ensure that no piece
f°“ d ,nto a set M,houl firsl be,ng careful,y
with but few exceptions the 60 or 70 broad-
casting stations scattered through Australia have
been designed, built and erected in Australia
by Australian engineers and workmen. In
the particular company which came under
the speaker s management they have followed
a policy for over 20 years of acquiring infor-
matjon from other parts of the world, and
men sending their own University students,
engineers and skilled workers abroad for train-
ing so that they could come back to keep the
industry always up to date.
Through Beam Wireless 12 to 15 million
words are sent and received every year, and
there is also the wireless telephone, with which
you ca |j London and speak direct through the
e m er to anyone in Britain, Europe or North
and South America. Practically all the appa-
ratus used in those services to-day has been
~ “
Aviation without wireless might be said to
a j most blind, and merchant ships, naval
mips of all kinds, troops, aircraft, all depend
upon wireless for maintaining communication
with one another, with headquarters and
with various centres. In these activities Aus-
tralia has not been behindhand.
To maintain communication with Britain and
other Dominions in peace-time and in time
of war wireless is a most essential thing.
Cable services must be supplemented by wire-
less services to the utmost possible degree.
And it is in the maintenance of those services
in times of emergency that the wireless industry
would render invaluable service to Australia
and the Empire.
All Round the Dial.
In the 2CH studios recently an audi-
tion was being held for talent, and one
lad brought in a 6ft. x 3ft. slab of
marble. Its purpose? Eddie Lawson,
tap-dancer, used it as a floor.
Latest in the Trade.
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, have
just received a new edition of Henney’s
Radio Engineering Handbook. This
book has been thoroughly revised and
brought up to date, and is 300 pages
bigger than the previous edition. The
price remains the same, 325. 6d. (postage
9d.). The emphasis is on practice
rather than theory, and instructors
and students will find it indispensable.
Sections are included dealing with
mathematical and electrical tables, elec-
tric and magnetic circuits, resistance, in-
ductance, capacity, combined circuits of
L., C. and R., electrical measurements,
vacuum tubes, oscillation, detection and
modulation, audio-frequency amplifiers,
radio-frequency amplifiers, receiving
systems, rectifiers and power-supply
systems, loudspeakers and acoustics,
high-frequency transmission and recep-
tion, code transmission and reception,
television, radio broadcasting, facsimile
transmission, aircraft radio, antennae,
photocells, and sound motion pictures.
Radiotron technical bulletin No. 59
deals with a variety of subjects, includ-
ing “Improved Operation for Class-B
Output, Using Types 19 and 30 Valves,”
“6E5, Additional Information,” “IC6,
Improved Filament,” and “Fluorescence
and Blue-glow.” These bulletins, issued
regularly, are a very useful source of
information. They may be obtained on
application to A.W.A. Valve Co., 47
York-street, Sydney.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Details of a good superhet circuit for
amateur-band reception mainly, using no more
than four valves, excluding rectifier? —614.
Such a receiver has been completed, and will
be described in detail as soon as possible. A
6C6 is used with regeneration as first detector,
76 as oscillator, 6D6 I.F. and 79 combined
second detector (with regeneration control),
beat-frequency oscillator and audio (for head-
phones). The receiver is quite easy to make,
and gives excellent results on amateur DX
'phones. It is selective enough to work through
local congestion in any band.
* * * *
(1) Total cost of parts necessary to assemble
the Junior Universal P.A. System ( B.
21/2/’35). ? (2) Could this be built by anyone
with commonsense but little practical radio
experience ? (3) What book or books do you
recommend dealing with the A B C of radio,
signs and symbols used in set building, etc. ?
—615.
(I) Around £25 or more, depending on the
quality of transformers and loudspeakers. It
will be cheaper if only one of the alternative
power units is considered. (2) Radio experi-
ence is necessary to undertake confidently the
construction and testing of such equipment,
but with a little knowledge • such apparatus
could be built successfully by following a
schematic diagram made up by an engineer.
(3) Drake’s Encyclopedia of Radio, Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.


USEFUL DATA ON OLDSMOBILE EIGHT.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m,.p.h. in second in 5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft.
Maximum speed, 81.08 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 19.7 m.p.g.
••SILVER
EDGE* 9
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTDLONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, V.C.
fa.
wj.
fa
m
fa
&
Aljauqeis
useless unless accurate
- worse ; it is misleading
Accurate recording is the duty of a tyre gauge.
There is one gauge you can always depend on—
the KISMET. Behind its manufacture is 40,
years’ experience in pneumatic engineering. It
is made by craftsmen in Sheffield, England, and
every gauge is subjected to five major tests
during production to ensure accuracy.
Handsomely finished and clearly numbered in
individual 11b. units on wide, flat surfaces.
Complete in neat leather wallet.
lestyour lyres with a
IKJISMIET
TYRE GAUGE
Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BROS., LTD.,
Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
ē
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, CM*
The Steering Column.
OLDS. EIGHT PASSES TEST.
IMPROVEMENTS IN NEW MODELS.
A FTER some years’ absence from the Australian market, the
Oldsmobile comes back with a new model—the Eight—
which proves that the satisfactory service given by the previous
series has served as a useful groundwork for the designing of a
quality product at a moderate price. The new series, whilst
including all proved Oldsmobile features, incorporates numerous
improvements and refinements which aim at safer and more
dependable operation, together with reduced maintenance costs.
Body design continues the advanced
mode established previously, while the
front end of the car has been modified to
give a refined streamlined appearance.
An improved method of cushioned
engine mounting and lighter and speci-
ally hardened alloy pistons permit higher
engine speeds and consequent better road
performance without vibration and with
an appreciable decrease in fuel con-
sumption. The mechanical braking sys-
tem has been replaced by a highly
efficient yet simply designed self-ener-
gising hydraulic equipment.
The chassis is stronger than hitherto,
and transmission has been improved
by the adoption of helical-cut silent
gears, together with needle-roller
bearings in tailshaft universal
joints. j
Independent front-wheel sus-
pension is retained, while pas-
senger comfort is further assured
by standardising oversize low-pressure
tyres and safety-steel pressed wheels.
The straight-eight L-head type engine
is suspended in the chassis on three
rubber buffers. Bore, 3in., and stroke,
4iin,, give a displacement of 240.3 cubic
inches and an R.A.C. rating of 28.8
h.p. At 3600 r.p.m., 100 b.h.p. is
developed.
Cylinder block and crankcase are cast
integral, of close-grained alloy iron, the
crankcase being reinforced with longi-
tudinal ribbing. The bottom half ex-
tends below the centre line of the crank-
shaft, and the bearing supports are
trussed into the crankcase walls. Cylinder
barrels are separated and completely sur-
rounded by water jacketing, which ex-
tends the full length of piston travel.
Section of high-efficiency cylinder head, showing offset
valves and provision for cooling.
In addition, water-distributing tubes pro-
vide efficient and uniform cooling. The
detachable cylinder head, of special de-
sign, gives a compression ratio in the
combustion chamber of 6.2 to 1, ensur-
mg high performance and economy with-
out pinking or detonation when using
ordinary fuels.
Pistons are now electro-hardened alu-
minium alloy instead of iron, reducing
the weight of each from 28oz. to 160 z.,
with a corresponding reduction in bear-
ing loads and improvement in accelera-
tion, Pistons are straight-skirt T-slot
design, cam-ground, with four rings, the
two upper compression and the two
lower oil retainers, located above the
gudgeon pin. Holes are drilled behind
the oil rings to prevent lubricant banking
Roomy, comfortable and powerful, the new Olds. Eight tested over the BULLETIN
course.
up and being pumped into the combus-
tion chamber.
Connecting rods are forged-steel I-
section, rifle-drilled to convey oil at
pressure to gudgeon pins, whilst each
rod has a drilled “spurt” hole for
auxiliary cylinder - wall lubrication.
Babbitt bearings are of thin-walled re-
movable type.
The crankshaft is
balanced st a t ically
and dynamically, and
runs on five steel-
backed bearings. ft
is equipped with
counter weights and a
friction-type torsional
vibration damper on
the forward end.
Side-by-side valves
are used, seatings
being cut at 45 de-
grees. Water jackets
almost completely sur-
round the exhaust
valve seats, thereby preventing burning
or warping, improving performance and
prolonging periods between overhaul. A
separate exhaust port is provided for each
cylinder. Tappet guides are removable.
A mechanically-operated fuel pump
draws petrol from a 15gal. tank at the
rear through pipe lines located outside
the frame, and feeds a triple venturi
down-draught carburettor fitted with air
cleaner and intake silencer.
The central section of the induction
manifold is jacketed to form a hot-spot,
heat control being regulated by means of
a thermostat and a non-corrosive butter-
fly valve. Fuel waste when starting up
from cold is avoided by use of an
atomising device centrally located in a
pocket beneath the mixing chamber. An
automatic choke control is built integral
with the carburettor.
Automatic “fast idle” controlled by
thermostat prevents stalling during the
warming-up period, and reduces engine
revs, to normal after a few minutes’
driving. Starter pedal and throttle are
linked together, assuring a correct mix-
ture entering the cylinders whenever the
starter pedal is depressed.
Oil is pressure-fed to all camshaft,
crankshaft and connecting-rod bearings,
gudgeon pins and cylinder walls, the oil
manifold being drilled along the entire
right side of the cylinder block. Connect-
ing passages to main and camshaft bear-
ings are also drilled in the crankcase
webbing, totally eliminating the use of
tubing. Oil temperature is kept within
low limits by reason of the very rapid
circulation capacity of the large gear-
driven pumps—4o4gal. per hour at a
road speed of 60 m.p.h An efficient
crankcase ventilating system expels steam
and unburned gases from the sump, the
air used to replace the ejected gases being
first drawn through an air cleaner built
integral with the filler-pipe cap.
Electrical equipment is six volt, starter
and generator being separate units,
Generator is of heavy-
duty air-cooled type,
with voltage regulator.
Starter motor is of
positive shift type,
with isolated starting
control. Ignition is by
coil and battery, the
spark advance being
auto matically con-
trolled both centrifu-
gally and by suction
from the intake mani-
fold, ensuring the
most efficient firing-
point under all run-
ning conditions.
Lighting system is protected from
short circuits or overloads by a thermo-
static circuit breaker located behind the
dash.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch equipped with self-
aligning oilless thrust bearing to the
three-speed-and-reverse gearbox with
central ball-type change-speed lever.
Gears are helical cut, all silent synchro-
mesh type, an interesting detail being the
p o s 1 tioning of
the intermediate
(second gear)
pinions at the ex-
treme rear of the
assembly, thereby
obtaining maxi-
mum bearing sup-
port under heavy
loads and pre-
venting “whip”
in the shafting.
Propeller shaft
is balanced
dynamically, and
has an all-metal,
needle-roller uni-
versal joint front
and rear.
Rear - axle as-
sembly is retained
New-type T - slot
hardened alloy pis-
tons, with holes
drilled behind oil
rings.
in pressed-steel “banjo” housing. Axles
are semi-floating. Crown wheel and
pinion have helical-cut gearing ; moulded
rubber pads are used to insulate the
housing from springs and frame. Final
reduction ratio is 4.55 to 1.
Chassis is X-girder type, with
two additional cross members at
rear. Wheelbase is 121 in.; width
of tread at front 58in., at rear
59in.; ground clearance, Sin.
Pantograph open coil spring
type of independent suspension,
with auxiliary two-way hydraulic
shock-absorbers, is fitted to the
front wheels, the rear springs being
conventional semi-elliptic, with silent
threaded shackles front and rear. A
ride stabiliser, to prevent rolling on
corners, is fitted between frame mem-
bers over the rear axle, and is coupled to
both the double-acting shock-absorber
arms and spring pads.
Service braking equipment is operated
hydraulically on all four wheels, brake
shoes being of self-energising type.
Mechanical emergency brakes, actuated
by an inverted lever beneath the dash, are
fitted to rear wheels, and are entirely in-
dependent of service equipment.
Centre control steering is fitted, the
steering gear being of worm-and-roller
type with a reduction ratio of 18.75 to 1.
Turning circle, L. and R. lock, is 37ft.
Bodywork is safety steel by Holden's,
fitted with no-draught ventilation on
front and rear side quarter windows.
Safety windscreen is of Armorplate non-
shatterable glass.
The luggage compartment is built into
the rear panels.
Dashboard instruments are neatly de-
signed, aviation-type speedometer and


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
w
m
WORN PLUCS \
WASTE YOUR \
MONEY \
Replace them with
CHAMPIONS /
'Cham PI ON
SPARKING PLUGS
5
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
WORLD 2
LEADERS %
FOR 25 f
YEARS I
y/A
%
&
5/3
WISH
Cjpp
y
“DULUX” as a car-finish cannot be
bettered. It dries HARD; it retains
its lustre longer; is easier to keep
clean and bright, and has far
greater tvear-resistance ! Ask your
re-finisher about this amazing
“miracle finish.”
Hr A Product of British Australian Lead if
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd., makers of
famous “Duco" Lacquers and
“No. 7 Specialities for the Motorist.”
<395^
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
ĕ
Champions in the Automotive Field-
Olympic Tyres
IN EVERY TEST—AUSTRALIA’S BEST
for Endurance .. . Dependability ... Safety
MADE BY
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
yndipendeni and OiuAtfcUian_^
\
\\
Obtainable leading Garages, Tyre Dealers and Service Stations throughout Australia
usual control units being positioned im-
mediately in front of the driver.
The car tested was a four-door sedan
driven by J. Turner, of W. H. Lober
and Cos., N.S.W. distributors. Speed-
ometer reading was 4277 miles, and total
weight, including driver, observer and
full fuel tank, was 36^cwt.
Driving through congested traffic in
city and suburbs is facilitated by an ex-
cellent steering lock, together with sensi-
tive yet light control, rendering the Olds.
Eight, despite its wheelbase and weight,
an easy car to manoeuvre. On the open
road, as would be expected, the motor
makes light work of any main-road hills
in top gear, while road speed can be any
figure within reason desired by the
driver.
On the coasting test approaching Pitt
Town, with gear lever in neutral and
commencing at 15 m.p.h., a distance of
683 yards was covered before coming
to a standstill, while in a test of maxi-
Cutaway section of air cleaner, car-
burettor, induction and exhaust manifold.
mum speed over a measured mile with
flying start the distance was clocked in
44 2-ssec., averaging 81.08 m.p.h.
Over the rough, unmade section
through Grose Vale, the car sat on the
road well, and suspension was comfort-
able and free from shock.
The hill climb, including 2 1-5 miles
of the steepest portion of Kurrajong
Mountain, was
neg o t i ated in
3min. 18 2-ssec.,
second and top
gears being used.
Cornering on the
several difficult
bends was safe
and free from un-
due swaying.
Returning down
the mountain and
taking the cross-
country road via
Cast lereagh to
Penrith, further
tests were made
to determine
engine flexibility
and road perfor-
mance. First,
350 yards’ slow
running, followed
by 350 yards on
full throttle in
top gear, occu-
pied respectively
3m in. 35s ec.,
ave r a ging 3.3
m.p.h., and 16
l-ssec., averaging
44.4 m.p.h., cross-
ing the finishing
line at 60 m.p.h.
Rifle-drilled connect-
ing rod, with oil-
spurt hole above big-
end bearing.
Top-gear acceleration from 10 to 30
m.p.h. was timed in 7sec., second gear
ssec., while from a standing start to 50
m.p.h. occupied 12 l-ssec.
The hydraulic brakes stopped the car
from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft., and at con-
clusion of the test, covering 117 miles,
sgal. pints of fuel was required to
fill the tank, an average of 19.7 m.p.g.
(35.7 ton miles), the average road speed,
inclusive of all tests, being 35.2 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
575.— After sifting 2oz. of flake graphite'
through fine silk and mixing with half a pint
of light engine oil, about half remained in
suspension after standing for six hours. Is this
safe to use in sump oil ?
Flake graphite, however finely divided, is
likely to block oilways, and should not be
used. Colloidal graphite is the only permis-
sible form.
* * * *
W.L.M. (Dubbo, N.S.W.).— Where can I
get information concerning operation of air-
cleaner on my tractor ?
British Standard Machinery Co., 6 Wynyard-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
T.E.B. (Goondiwindi, Q.). — While cleaning
the gauze screen in the sump of my ’2B four-
cylinder car recently I noticed one of the oil
dippers had broken away from cap of bearing.
Will it be risky to continue driving with the
dipper missing ?
As the purpose of the dipper is to splash
oil to cylinder wall and piston you run a risk
of seizing that particular cylinder. As the
engine is rather old there may be sufficient
volume of oil vapor in the crankcase to lubri-
cate the walls provided fast driving is not
indulged in.
* * * *
D.C. (Penrith, N.S.W.). — During recent wet
weather I have several times been held up by
shorts in the engine. Each stop means a delay
of half an hour to dry wires and plugs. How
can this be prevented ?
First see that tray beneath sump prevents
water being thrown on engine from road
wheels. Note also if water leaks through the
bonnet hinge. If it does, bend a length of
thin metal into a V gutter and suspend below
join. As additional precaution, vulcanite or
bakelite shields can be purchased to protect
plugs, and a flexible rubber sheathing (made
from section of inner tube will do) should
be placed over the distributor head.
* * * *
S.S. (Horsham, Vic.). — How do you deter-
mine maximum speeds of cars tested ? My
speedometer shows my ’35 car to be several
miles faster than, speed shown in your report.
By stop-watch oyer a surveyed distance of
one mile after a preliminary “run up” of abput
seven furlongs. Speedometer readings at high
speeds are seldom accurate, and frequently
read up to 10 m.p.h. fast.
* * * *
J.McC. (Springwood, N.S.W.). — My ’26
sedan is steering erratically and is difficult to
«>"»**< course. Would he )ac, of
be' aim'd’
Camber of spring can be altered by any
reputable springmaker, but rear-end height
will not greatly influence steering. Trouble
probably is due to derangement of front-end
alignment. A bent _ axle, incorrect toe-in,
camber or king-pin inclination will cause erratic
steering, and special machines must be used to
determine and measure the fault.
wr,* uu* m ’ia "/umn
(Toobeah, Q.). My 34 cat (14,0
nules) was recently decarbonised and
ground. Performance is now better than when
new ’ tfie -i mo ° r che ™? 011, usul g a J I “ a f t
f.'T'T I°° at , over 30 ™-P-t
Would new rings help, 01 what else can be
• . . . . „
Suggest removing pistons, cleaning out r g
slots and fitting oversize rings, although if,
apparently is the case, the excessive consump-
tion is due to wear of cylinders and pistons
the only permanent remedy will be rebore or
reline of cylinders.
Clerk (Blackwood, S.A.).—(l) Buying a new
car to comply with certain requirements, in
what order should five makes named be
placed ? (2) Is knee action successful, and
has it come to stay ?
(1) 2 or 5 then 1 3 4. (2) Yes, the principle
is being adopted by a greater number of de-
signers each succeeding year.
~T ’2
cylmder car when drive dowlyjrray ,erky.
Cause, remedy and cost °f . y *
Might be due to wear and play in any or all
of the following: Clutch universal joints, din.
assembly, tailshaft or axle splines. Impossible
to assess cost until cause is diagnosed.
* * * *
E.M.F. (Harris Park, N.S.W.). —My ’29
sedan (35,000 miles) was decarbonised and
spark advanced a year ago, and now the engine
knocks when climbing hills. Noise stops when
spark is retarded, but then the motor seems
to pull badly. What’s wrong ?
Carbon may have again formed in combus-
tion chamber owing to worn cylinders allow-
ing excess oil to pass pistons. Try decoking
again. If this fails, use a first-grade fuel with
high knock rating, otherwise there will be no
°P tlon Jut to slightly retard spark.
9four-
rebmmd Wj ' hu ,
over rough bush roads even at slow pace the
rebound action of the car is very severe. Any
wa y Q j adjustment or any remedy? (2) What
j s jf ie correct pressure for my car with 29 x
5 tyres ?
(1) No provision for adjustment. Try wrap-
ping insulating tape round the full length of
the springs. Failing a cure, shock-absorbers
will be necessary, at least on rear. (2)
30-351 b., according to load.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address; MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
HIGH PRAISE
IS GIVEN
South Australia’s leading: Week-
End Newspaper.
All the news from everywhere
. . , All Saturday’s sport . . . First
in the State for pictorial interest
, . . Packed with entertainment in
its magazine sections . . . Features
and advertising in four colors.
A.B.C. Certificate, 61,361.
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newsuaner House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludeate
Hill. E.C.4
Where ** laCk
Could
Advertise •
Representation :
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency-
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P, A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; A.dvt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
"The Examiner,** established 1842, Is the
oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and
yet is still the most modern paper in the
state. It circulates everywhere in the
North—the home of two-thirds of the
population of Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates
of ‘‘The Examiner" and “Saturday Evening
Express”, obtainable from:
®)e
hammer
LAUNCESTON
EST. 1842
yi/lainiruy
jficu/y
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUG AN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
’re IN THE MIDDLE
...and Like It!
CAM’s unique position
gives it State-wide cover-
age. And our new power
of 1000 watts means a
million opportunities for
the advertiser.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers.
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australis-
“She's with Dinny’s mob. He was looking for
that big, long-backed ewe that’s always poking out
on the wing.”
“She’s right. I saw her a while back.”
Thev had left voune Mae behind in I onoreach
, .1, a 1:K young Mac behind in Longreac
to the dreary prospect of school and the degradation
of having to mix with kids of his own age But he
would join hem later, he promised. When the school
cS and te in at tteand nf°*l Z "
couch and be in at the end ot the tr p.
They had anew cook and horsetailer The pros-
pect of a big mob of horses to look after did not
appeal to Reg, and he preferred to stay on his own
beat where he knew all the girls. Apparently he felt
that the moving life of an overlander allowed no
time for the fruition of the tedious but somewhat neces-
sary spadework of love-making. With one exception,
the remaining new hands were young men in their
twenties, and Bill found that although they still regarded
him as a newchum he was no longer raw but entitled
to a certain amount of respect.
Tom Dixon, a reliable old hand and ex-cattle-
man, made up the team, and in the evenings after
supper he and Dinny would foregather, sitting on
their heels, blackfellow fashion, exchanging reminis-
cencls ’ *!;, ile J oung Bill drank in every word
To Bill, this trip was invested with an entirely new
atmosphere to the last. Although he did not fully
realise it, the better season was chiefly responsible.
The desert trip had been carried out over bare,
drought-stricken country with weak, impoverished
sheep and horses. Things were different now. Water
lay in every gully; there was green grass everywhere
and heavy dews at night. Bills only regret was that
the flies were still as troublesome as ever, and their
persistent probing attacks nearly drove him mad.
His two new horses were also to his liking: a
brown mare of O’Brien’s, with the light mouth and
flexibility of the stockhorse, and a taffy chestnut pony.
The latter he regarded at first with disfavor ; he was
still young and inexperienced enough to feel the
superiority of sitting on a big horse. But he began
to appreciate the kindly nature of the hardy little
pony and to take an interest in it. When he picked
up his bridle in the morning as the horses were driven
on to the camp, he got into the habit of carrying a
piece of damper for the pony. Before long he only
had to whistle to bring her out of the mob, and she
would stand still to be bridled and then demand the
damper.
Bill added a stockwhip to his equipment in Long-
reach, a long, tapering thong of plaited kangaroo hide.
But, in spite of assiduous practice, he was still uncertain
each time he used it whether the result would be a
perfect crack like a rifle-shot or a mix-up with his
horse’s tail, a flick like a red-hot wire on the ear,
or perhaps an ignominious tangle of thong round
his neck.
In addition to the showy collie that had started
work so inauspiciously on the first trip, and which
still followed him in a lackadaisical sort of way, he
had added a black pup of doubtful breeding to his
menage. On the morning of their leaving O’Brien’s
Eileen had beckoned him to one side, and in a secluded
corner had wept over his bruises, which she insisted
in regarding as the wounds of battle waged over
herself. Bill, thoroughly embarrassed, found it im-
possible to enlighten her, but as they were leaving
Eileen reappeared with a well-grown black pup under
her arm and presented it to him. She could not have
hit on a more successful keepsake.
Without the reminder of the pup, Bill would
probably have forgotten all about Eileen in a day.
He had no particular interest in the girl, he told him-
self, and he was at an age when the last girl he met
was the one that was uppermost in his thoughts. That
nice-looking Longreach girl, for instance. He had
met her at Mac Andrew’s, and they went to a concert
one evening. He sat between her and Bessie Mac-
Andrew, little Mac’s elder sister; but it was the slim
girl and he that had leaned toward one another in
the darkness of the hall, and whose hot hand he had
held until the interval. When the lights went down
again her hand had snuggled back into his, and walk-
ing home through the unlighted streets his arm slipped
round her slim waist. He needed no dog to remind
him of her —so far,
Longreach and Barcaldine were far behind. They
passed Blackall and ran the Barcoo up to Tambo.
Horizons were widening for Bill; towns and creeks
and stations whose names were the framework of
bush conversation were beginning to mean something
more than mere empty names. He could listen to
Dinny and old Tom yarning of the past and the
present and follow their landmarks with some success
now. He even felt a proprietary interest when Tom
would break out into his favorite poem, intoning
in a jerky sing-song rhythm:
On the outer Barcoo where the churches are few
And men of religion are scanty,
On a road never crossed ’cept by folk that are lost,
One Michael Magee had a shanty.
And when they passed other mobs coming north
and a drover would ride across with a nod and a
casual “G’day!” and a keen glance at the brand of
the other’s horse and the condition of their sheep,
Bill could talk back to him in his own language on
the all-important topics—the state of the grass and
the waterholes along the route. Then with a nod
of farewell and a cheerful “Hooray!” they would
separate and canter after their mobs, each with some
garnered information to pass on, and each still igno-
rant of the other’s identity except that he was
“O’Mara’s horsetailer” or “with Mac Andrew’s mob.”
As they progressed across open downs or stony,
scrubby ridges there was always something new.
Gidya would give way to mulga or to pine ; every
day Dinny had to be called upon to identify some
fresh species of flora or fauna. A tree was either
useful, like gidya, which produced the coals beloved of
cooks, or leopardwood, whose foliage the sheep liked,
or, on the other hand, there was whitewood, which
was no good to burn, and whose leaves were poisonous
to stock at some times of the year.
So Bill gradually absorbed the lore of the bush.
There were the big, red kangaroos of the downs, the
wallaroos of the stony hills, goannas six feet long,
with snaky heads like prehistoric saurians, and short,
stumpy death-adders. Mobs of emus flouncing curi-
ously past, tall grey-blue native companions perform-
ing their weirdly grotesque dances out on the shim-
mering plains, wild turkeys that looked more like
geese, swarming clouds of pretty little green budgeri-
gars, a skyful of galahs showing dove-grey at one
moment arid rose-pink the next, and those gorgeously-
painted miniatures that twittered among the bushes.
Then they reached the prickly-pear country. At
first scattered green plants, thrusting grotesquely at
all sorts of angles, gradually becoming clumps ; then
the clumps closed up to form an impassable spiny
barrier that reached high among the trees and nar-
rowed the stock route to a mere lane.
Just before they reached the Border Gate the
coach pulled up alongside them one day, and a sturdy
little figure clambered down. Within a few minutes
young Mac had his pony saddled and was riding
round the mob as though he had never been away
He brought the latest gossip from Longreach and
all the additional titbits he had picked up on the
coach. To Bill he brought a special message from
the Longreach girl, much to the surprise of the reci-
pient. She had faded from his thoughts shortly after
they crossed the Barcoo, but the message brought her
to life again, and for the next few days she vied for
supremacy in his daydreams with the fair girl in
the store at St. George.
They put behind them the long netting fence that
marks the Queensland border and crossed the plains
of New South Wales toward the blue foothills. The
stock route narrowed in. places, to a mere strip, and
gate succeeded gate at such short intervals that Dinny
swore that “Noo South was nothing but a bloody
sheepyard! ”
Mac buoyed them with the assurance that their
destination was at hand, and one day a tall, arrogant-
looking man in riding-breeches and a tightly-
buttoned coat rode on to the dinner camp on a well-
groomed black horse and demanded the presence of
Mac Andrew the drover. Mac rose from his lunch
in the shade of a box-tree and crossed toward the
stranger, who surveyed him from his horse.
“Are you Mac Andrew?” he queried sharply.
“I’m Mr. Grimshaw, manager of Camelot. Have
you lost many sheep on the way?”
“No, we’ve had a good trip. Where will you
take delivery?”
. “I want you to have them at the Bngalow yards
to-morrow. I’ll send a man to show you the way.”
“I know them.” Mac thought for a moment. “But
that means well have to travel sixteen miles to-
morrow with a lot of gates —and these sheep have
been on the road over four months.”
The manager frowned down his big beaky nose.
“Are you trying to teach me my business? I expect
you to be at the yards to-morrow! ” He wheeled the
black horse and cantered stiffly off.
Mac resumed his seat with a thoughtful expres-
sion. A voice from the background mimicked, “I’m
•—Mistah —Grimshaw .. . Haw! Are you= —a drovah?
Haw?”
When the laughter died down, Dmny observed
casually to Mac Andrew: “Ever noticed how a bloke
that doesn’t know his job is always suspicious that
people can see through him?” Then after a pause:
“It’s time we got back to Queensland, Mac.”
Mac nodded gloomily. “It’s pretty hard, after
nursing these sheep to land them here in good nick, to
be told to gallop them off their legs at the finish. It’s
sixteen miles to the yards, and unless they’ve rebuilt
them the yards aren’t big enough to hold this mob.
Dinny eyed him carelessly. “You seem to know
this place pretty well, Mac.”
The drover hesitated a moment ; he glanced
round and dropped his voice so that only Dinny and
Bill heard him. “I ought to! My father owned all
this country once, and I was born and brought up
here. The bank smash of the ’nineties settled us and
killed him. A young feller just out from England
bought the bigger part of the station and called it
Camelot . . . And the girl I was going to marry
decided she couldn’t be a poor man’s wife . . . and
married him. Not this Grimshaw —he’s only a man-
ager —but the owner who lives in Sydney or Mel-
bourne. I never met him . . . but I wish him luck!
(To be continued next week.)


UNHEALTHY KIDNEYS
m
THE principal duty of the
Kidneys is to filter the blood-
streams, and so keep the blood
pure and healthy. Should the
Kidneys become unhealthy, they
are unable to fully carry out
this important task, and im-
purities are allowed to accumulate.
are the cause
of many
SERIOUS ILLNESSES
These impurities are carried
through the bloodstreams,
poisoning the system and often
causing severe Backache, Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Sciatica,
Stiff Swollen Joints, Headaches,
Sleepless Nights and general
run-down condition.
DELAY is often DANGEROUS
Many dangerous illnesses have
been averted by taking Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills in time. So
don’t delay if you have any
cause to suspect that your
Kidneys are out of order. Begin
taking a course of this Nationally-
known Remedy at once.
You will find that Gin Pills
will surely and speedily help
your Kidneys to become strong
and healthy again.
You can place every reliance
in Gin Pills, as their constituents
are such that they cannot help
but do you good. They con-
tain no harsh irritants or harm-
ful ingredients, and are un-
equalled as a Kidney Remedy.
Cease worrying about your-
self —give Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills a chance to restore your
health. They will soon banish
that run-down feeling, and
remove all traces
o f Backache,
Rheumatism and
any of the other
signs of Kidney
Trouble.
ė
ę
GIN PILLS
acass;
t s tmiin
5.75^11*4^
t S *Z S 2 o c 2.3
O'*
1?
i
i» it 1 ittn
n
w*
0H S
$nt L °
9
Indigestion
& Dyspepsia
The terms —Indigestion and Dyspepsia—
simply mean illness of the digestive organ,
and apply to a group of symptoms "which
accompany every disease of the digestive
system.
The CAUSE: Overeating, hurried
11 ' 1 1 ' r or irregular eating,
improperly prepared and unsuitable food,
overwork (mental or physical), irritants
(such as tea, coffee or alcohol) in excess.
The EFFECTS: Many and
'• 1 varied, all
originating from a disordered stomach.
Food not digested, constipation, lack of
nutrition, blood impoverished, poisons
absorbed into the system, and other organs
so affected they cannot perform their work.
The RESULT: System run down,
— 77 brain becomes
tired, muscular system weakened, insomnia,
excessive debility, bad blood, skin
blemished, low vitality and susceptibility to
serious disease.
The REMEDY: Assist nature by
■ the use of Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules, which digest
what you eat, relieving the inflammation of
the mucous membranes lining the stomach,
protecting the nerves and enabling the
glands to secrete the natural juices of
digestion.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules create a
healthy appetite, and enable the stomach
and digestive organs to transform the
wholesome food that may be eaten into
rich, red blood that makes health, strength,
tissue, brain, brawn and bone.
DN^rfW ULE S
DIGEST
WHAT YOU EAT"
THEY MAKE YOUR STOMACH
STRONG AND HEALTHY.
Small Size, 1/9 Large Size, 2/9
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME .
> ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
n
©
5o
►* *.VIaO .aV* ..•• ■>< .•••*■.
«?
>V
«,i c
X
r-JP t ,
v* ..•••■■ ...-••■
..•* x &&*s> 0<


DOES THIS APPLY
TO YOU?
A MAN DOES NOT GET VERY OLD BEFORE HE
FINDS HIMSELF SAYING:
“If I had my life to live over again I would subscribe
to twice as much Life Assurance.”
GIVE YOURSELF A TREAT, SAY, IN 20 YEARS FROM
NOW—CONTRIBUTE TO TWICE AS MUCH LIFE
ASSURANCE TO-DAY, THEN IN 20 YEARS’ TIME
YOU CAN SAY :
“The finest thing I ever did was when I arranged
for twice as much Life Assurance.”
THINK IT OVER and ACT NOW!
“The National Mutual,” a purely Mutual Institu-
tion, established in 1869, was formed to protect
members and their dependents from the financial
stress caused by death and old age.
It introduced the Non-Forfeiture Principle to Life
Policies, thus saving thousands of Life Policies from
lapsing.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Purely Mutual. No Shareholders.
Funds Exceed:
£39,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds;
£5,000,000
OFFICES:
N.S.W.: 350 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
VIC: 395 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
f. . 1 • ■ \t; 4 • • ■ ■" _ \ v , .. ; -
And throughout Australasia, Great Britain, India, Ceylon and
Straits Settlements.
