

safe
i
g
V
IV
I
hi
I
▲
: -
H
•
S
w
m
M
yM.
m
Now—while the holiday spirit
is in the air bring your
picture-making up-to-date
with a 1936 Kodak.
NEW JIFFY KODAKS
.—One touch and Jiffy opens for action —
another and a happy snap is safely
captured. What could be simpler? In
three popular picture-sizes, 55/-
Prices JSi 60/-
REDUCED PRICES
CINE-KODAK EIGHT
This amazing little outfit will, from the first,
produce brilliant movies you’ll be proud of.
You cannot afford not to be “making
pictures” at these new low prices.
Model 20, f/ 3.5 Lens. j /#»
Price'... JL C#U
Call for demonstration or write for Free Booklets
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Aust) PTY.,
-50-252 Queen'Street Brisbane; 37 Ruudle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street. Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth;
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Bast Street, Rockhampton: Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 70 Princes Street, Dunedin; 204
Lamhtou Quay. \\ ellingtou; 6SI Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
These Boy Criminals (Page 8)
Vol. 57. —No. 2929.
Wednesday, April 1, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Storu Writing
ivl. VJ at HOIUF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Up Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian 'literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competitioa will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties, at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
PLAIN AND
LACE
Archibald Mac-
Leish is an
American poet
who is deter-
mined to remain
content to remain
American ;he is not a Yankee: not a
Yank with a chewed cigar and a hat and a
button,
Talking those Inglish Spich with the both
ends cut;
and he is not an exile,
Living the life of a classic in bad air with
Himself for the Past and his face in the glass
for Posterity;
and not a revolutionary, not
Even Comrade Grenadine Grilt who has tried
since
August tenth for something to feel strongly in
Verses —his personal passions having tired;
but he is a poet, and his work, though
not all of it is as good as some of it,
does not let Hemingway down, who
dedicated Winner Take Nothing to him.
Those who have read through any
verse magazine such as the Chicago
“Poetry” will recognise this kind of
thing;
Heaped we these coppered hulls
With headed poppies
And garlic longed-for by the eager dead
Keep we with sun-caught sails
The westward ocean
Raise we that island on the sea at last,
etc. It is the product of writers busy
acquiring a technique; it “shows
promise,” but has no individual kick or
kink ; it is in the manner of the age ;
and there is a fair amount of this in Mr.
MacLeish’s book, some mixed up with
longer poems such as “The Pot of
Earth,” which is interesting altogether,
but could do with being boiled down.
But if you take him at his best, in a
short piece like “Yacht for Sale,” you
find something new and individual:
My youth is
Made fast
To the dock
At Marseilles
Rotting away
With a chain to her mast
She that saw slaughters
In foreign waters—
and a great many other things, and the
poem concludes:
It’s easy to see
She was frail in the knee
And too sharp in the bow —
You can see now.
It would be hard to find a more simple
or more moving commentary on all en-
thusiasm which has blown itself out, or
sailed itself away ; it is surprisingly remi-
niscent, for difference of feeling and
similarity of statement, of that stroke of
genius which closed Chaplin’s last film:
the N blind girl encounters the supposedly
wealthy hero who has restored her sight,
and finds him a ragged tramp ; he is
ashamed and hesitates: “You can see
now?” he says at last; and she says
“Yes, I can see —now,”
The point about the Americans seems
to be that they live in the world, not in
a library; their English contemporaries,
William Empson and Herbert Read, give
the other impression; you read their
books, and you feel, well, this is very
superior and high-and-mighty ; but what
does it mean to me ; what am I going to
say about it? In “The Complaint of
Heloise” Mr. Read is. exquisitely ex-
plicit:—
I could show a white face,
a pious dress;
but very flowers in my breast
all fresh.
Pluck them. God pluck them. I
plucked them madly. X
But ever burgeon’d rose,
lily:
but what do you make of this? :
Earth is machine and works to plan,
Winnowing space and time;
The ethic mind is engine too,
Accelerating in the void.
This has been praised for its precision
by not the least of the English critics.
Then Mr. Empson, author of the justly
celebrated treatise Seven Types of Am-
biguity, can present our search for the
unattainable perfection taught us by our
governesses as happily as this:
The last pain for the damned the Fathers
found:
“They knew the bliss with which they were
not crowned.’’
Such, but on earth, let me foretell,
Is all, of heaven or of hell.
Man, as the prying housemaid of the soul.
May know her happiness - by eye to hole;
He’s safe; the key is lost; he knows
Door will not open, nor hole close.
Now look at the poem called “Earth
Has Shrunk in the Wash”:
They pass too fast. Ships, and there’s time
for sighing;
Express and motor, Doug can jump between.
Only dry earth now asteroid her flying
Mates, if they miss her, must flick past un-
seen.
In the explanatory notes Mr. Empson
says:—
Earth has shrunk in the wash: thus be-
coming an asteroid without enough gravi-
tational force to keep its atmosphere,
(Civilised refinement cutting one off from
other people and scientific discovery making
a strange world in which man has dan-
gerous powers.) Douglas Fairbanks jumps
from motor to express in some film, but
they were going in the same direction.
If you like crossword puzzles, you may
be able to make something of that; 1
have no doubt it is extraordinarily “pre-
cise,” and probably extremely witty;
but it is more puzzle than poetry.
Of course, as everyone knows, these
are quite serious attempts to express
rarefied feeling, feeling not for objects
or persons, but for ideas; in a way an
application of the microscope and the
telescope to art; a poetry of experience
at second-hand ; an abstract art. Many
would consider “abstract art” a contra-
diction in terms; with Whistler, they
would paint what they see from where
they see it. This is the safest method.
But there is enough theory on the other
side to make a long argument: it is all
a matter of degree. Another of this
new tribe of scribes is Marianne Moore,
introduced by none other than T. S.
Eliot; dozing over her strange reflec-
tions one is from time to time startled
by the shadow of an inexplicable
emotion, something you only vaguely
feel and never see,
I believe Miss Moore is an American ;
but she is not the kind of American I
mean when I speak of MacLeish, and
when I think of MacLeish I think more
of what there is in him of Ernest Hem-
ingway’s kind of American, an artist
who works without microscopes or tele-
scopes, relies wholly on his eyes, his
own observation, and on the lucidity of
his style. Indeed, in many ways Hem-
ingway is a greater poet than anyone
living; I do not describe him as that
literary delicatessen the “prose-poet”;
but for naked purity of language, for
sense of rhythm, for constructive ability,
and above all for simple lucidity, there
is no poet alive to touch him ; and when
you add the immense scope of his work,
and how supremely well he represents
his age, you must admit that he has left
very little for a poet to do, except, per-
haps, the same thing in verse.
RONALD McCUAIG
[Poems, Archibald MacLeish (Boriswood;
7s. 6d.); Poems, 1919-1934, Herbert Read
(Faber and Faber; 11s. 3d.); Poems, William
Empson (Chatto and Windus; 95.) ; Selected
Poems, Marianne Moore (Faber and Faber;
11s. 3d.)—Preece’s Bookshop and the Roy-
croft Bookshop, Sydney.]
Centenary of
Two Best -
Sellers
One day in
December, 1835,
a young man of
24 opened his
door at No. 15
Furnival’s In n,
Holborn, to find
a Mr. Hall upon the step. Mr. Hall was
part of Chapman and Hall, and he had
come to inquire if this young journalist
would do some sketches—to “carry” a
series of humorous sporting drawings.
Mr. Hall did not say that this same
offer had been declined by Whitehead, or
that the firm had thought of employ-
ing Leigh Hunt when Whitehead had
declined. He was really a little vague
about the whole thing, and certainly he
had no thought of instigating anything
like a masterpiece. Finally, these two
(Hall and the young journalist) reached
an agreement which was only verbal,
but as a result the young man got to
work at once—and the first number of
The Posthumous Papers of the Pick-
wick Club came out in March, 1836. Just
at first these Pickwick Papers did not
catch on, but they were saved by the
appearance of Sam Weller ; and then the
whole Pickwick idea and the name of
Pickwick suddenly blazed into fame.
Before Dickens was 25 the complete
work had passed into English literature.
The modern novelist is greatly indebted
to Dickens, for he created that reading
public which novelists dream about
to-day.
Some modern critic has divided best-
sellers into three distinct categories—•
high-, middle- and lowbrow. In the
first category would come novels by
such as E. M. Forster ; in the second,
novels by such as Hugh Walpole ; and in
the third, novels by such as Edgar Wal-
lace, Mrs. Barclay—and those other ladies
who have been aptly described as “the
Shakspeares of the servants’ hall.” The
highbrow best-seller may, in excep-
tional circumstances, attain a circulation
of 20,000. The middle-brow best-seller
would range from 20,000 up to 80,000
copies. And the lowbrow best-seller
may actually hit the million mark. These
lowbrow best-sellers usually provide, for
romantically inclined people, an inex-
pensive chance of leading a double life,
and, as well, they make an appeal to
fairly simple people who wish to read
of romance in a form not incompatible
with their oWn opportunities. Of course,
even best-sellers are mortal, just like
ourselves. Certainly The Rosary and
The Sheik still sell, and I know of one
critic who maintains that The Rosary
will have a long, long life because its
power is very uncommon.
I suppose the works of Dickens, on
this sort of grading, would enter the
category of middle-brow best-sellers. 1
don’t know. But there is another work
which reaches the centenary of its pub-
lication this year which cannot be classi-
fied at all, for in truth it is a no-brow
best-seller. And yet it still sells. I saw
a copy the other day in a cheap reprint
edition, and it loomed up before me like
some wraith from the past. I think,
perhaps, this type of book should be
called “The Skeleton in the Family
Cupboard of Literature.” Anyway, it
was a best-seller in its day.
It was in January, 1836, just one
month after Mr. Hall had called on
young Dickens, and just two months
before the appearance of the first number
of the Pickwick Papers, that The Awful
Confessions of Maria Monk were first
thrust on an unsuspecting New York
public, and in no time almost 20,000
copies had been sold. When this book
first appeared, its putative author, Miss
Maria Monk, had been in New York
some six months, whither she had come
from Montreal in the company of a
clergyman of sorts, who claimed to have
rescued her from a life of sin. Miss
Monk herself, however, had a different
account of that matter, but at any rate,
by means of a book which purported to
be an expose of convent life in the Hotel
de Dieu at Montreal, she precipitated a
fierce religious controversy. Later,
Further Disclosures appeared, in spite of
the fact that Miss Monk’s personal repu-
tation had been gravely shaken in the
meantime —for a gentleman of substance
named Stone had brought out a volume,
as a result of a visit to the Hotel de Dieu,
which proved Miss Monk to be nothing
more or less than a consummate im-
postor. Both of Miss Monk’s books,
however, were afterwards placed on the
English market, and it is computed that
over 300,000 copies of The Awful Con-
fessions have been sold.
Miss Monk’s name, however, does not
remain abroad to sue for admiration. I
can find no reference to her in any dic-
tionary of authors. The Encyclopedia
Americana is the only work of reference
in which I can find her name mentioned;
and there her story is briefly told as
follows: —
Monk. Maria. A Canadian impostor,
Born about 1817. Died 1850. Exposed
by Stone.
But people still believe in her, and
still read this incredible book. Doubtless
it will still be selling when The Rosary,
The Sheik, If Winter Comes and AH
Quiet on the Western Front have gone
to the home of happy books that have
the power to die. I don’t profess to
know what the great secret is to account
for such exceptional longevity, except,
perhaps, that Miss Monk alighted by
chance upon the knowledge that all of
us have the will to believe, and that some
of us have the will to believe anything.
Gerald Dillon
A German
Critic Looks
at Opera
Paul Bekker,
bi o g r apher of
Beethoven and
Wagner, has been
meditating on the
operatic art, and
the result of his
cogitations (translated into English by
Arthur Mendel) is The Changing Opera
(Dent; 10s. 6d.). Herr Bekker prefaces
his observations with the not entirely
new dictum that the essential element
of opera is the singing voice, and he
goes on to give what the cover-blurb
calls a “brilliant analysis” of the way in
which the voice has affected the develop-
ment of opera.
The process whereby it is sought to
prove whatever Herr Bekker is seeking
to prove—he wraps his intention in such
leisurely terminological coils and so
carefully qualifies every assertion that
the goal is obscure —seems to be a little
akin to developing a thesis that horses
have had a good deal to do with the
design of carriages. But, whatever his
aim, this German analyst, in the course
of expounding it (which he does more
from the point of view of a singer than
a critic of music), discovers a new method
of attacking the study of opera. He
goes for the sort of characters the
various composers associated with
various sorts of voices. Gluck, for in-
stance (before him opera was sung by
adult male sopranos, castrafi, whose
voices were “depersonalised”), introduced
to the scene female lyric and dramatic
sopranos, a tragic baritone and a drama-
tic tenor. None of these voices is very
((Continued on page 4.)


u
a
a
\\
o
V
Ss
V
JOHN DEERE’S ONE-HOLE CORN SHELLER
John Deere’s One-hole Hand Corn Sheller. Frame of heavy
angle steel, sides heavy-gauge galvanised steel. Price .... £7/15/-
M
Mi
JOHN DEERE’S TWO-HOLE CORN SHELLER
John Deere’s Two-hole Corn Sheller. Heavy angle steel
frame. Can be worked by hand or engine power. Capacity, 25 to 35
bushels per hour. Anthony Horderns’ Price £l5/15/-
lir i
y y\
vi
I
y
>
I
m
m
•ft A,
sc.»& MKi«.''. 3.*ri:
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT!
GEORGE ROBOT
makes his final appearance
in Sydney prior to
returning to Europe.
DAILY UNTIL APRIL 16.
George Robot is the marvellous
electro-mechanical man who astounded
over 100,000 people at Anthony
Horderns’ last year. He now makes
his final exclusive appearance at
Anthony Horderns’ before returning
to Europe.
COUNTRY VISITORS
to Sydney for the Easter season are
cordially invited to see the marvels of
this mechanical man. He is able to
speak 12 languages, he rises and sits
on command ... he answers questions
. . . and he can sing, too.
NO CHARGE
to see George Robot at Anthony
Horderns’, where he is on view till
April 1 6 on the Second Floor, George
Street.
Performances will take place daily at
1 1 a.m., J 2 noon, 1.30 p.m., 3 p.m.
and 4 p.m. There will be an extra
session Friday night at 7 o’clock,
Saturday at 10.30 a.m. and 1 1.30 a.m.
SHOW WEEK
When you visit the Easter Show this
year, be sure to inspect Anthony
Horderns’ Pavilion. It contains a fine
display of exhibits manufactured in
our own factories, besides quality
merchandise at Famous Low Prices for
which Anthony Horderns’ name is
renowned. Make the pavilion your
first place of inspection!
SEND FOR A
COPY OF
OUR SHOW
CATALOGUE
df
"TRUTH IN A OVER USING”—A Iways.
ANTHONY
DESIGNED TO GIVE YOU
The Senior Store ”
"While I Live I'll Grow'
HORDERNS’
EFFICIENCY WITH LONG SERVICE
Anthony Horderns* great store has long been recognised
as the headquarters for the Man on the Land. To
fulfil the farmer’s every need and give consummate
satisfaction is one of the chief aims of “The Senior Store.”
And this page of values is sound proof of the statement
“Quality Merchandise at Famous Low Prices,” whenever
you buy from Anthony Horderns’.
•sm
1
IRON AND STEEL KIBBLER
Bentall G. M. C. Crusher, for Oats, Maize, Barley,
Beans; weight, 1201 b. Supplied with round Iron
Hopper, Steel Legs. Kibbling is done by a hardened
grooved steel roller revolving against an improved
reversible cutting plate having four separate cutting
edges; width of roller, 3fin. Capacity (approx.):
Maize, 1801 b. per hour; Malt, 1681 b. per hour; Barley,
1561 b. per hour.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .
£lO/10/-
SEED SOWER
A splendid Machine for
the broadcast sewing of:
Clover, Sudan Grass,
Millet, Lucerne and Pas-
ture Grass, or small areas
of seed grain. Breadth of
cast varies according to
weight of seed or grain,
but usually it is about as
follows; Clover, Millet or
Lucerne, from 20 to 24
feet; Grasses, 8 to 12
feet; Wheat or Rye, 30
to 36 feet; Barley, 2 7 to
33 feet.
• Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.


The original-
HERE'S
GOOD
N€WS
LEA & PERRINS
SAUCE
IS CHEAPER I
I
Because you need only a
FEW DROPS at a time.
Lea and Perrins Sauce is so highly
concentrated that a little goes
a long way.
PERRItf
SAUCE
closely identified with any sort of char-
acter, the operatic material being so very
classical and symbolical.
Mozart, however, created a whole gal-
lery of identifiable figures. The colora-
tura soprano (at her best as Parnina) is
associated with thoughts of love and
longing with woman’s per-
sonahty. The tenors are trivial chaps,
never heroic ; the real man is the bari-
tone or the basso, “true incarnation of
e male sex. Beethoven in his ultra-
moral Fideho” makes the baritone a
tyrant, the tenor a high-principled
u’ * • a^les P ur ® but lachrymose,
and he writes the music for them with-
out caring in the least whether a human
being is able to sing it or not. Weber
creates two types of women, the lyri-
cally sentimental sort and the saucy
soubrette. His typical tenor is serious-
minded; his basso a sinister, eerie sort
of cove.
Along these lines Herr Bekker pains-
takingly pursues his analysis through
German, French and Italian composers
till he gets to Wagner and Verdi.
Perhaps fortunately, Herr Bekker
either hasn’t heard of Polish, not to men-
tion English, opera or considers it be-
neath contempt. He has some high
praise for Puccini and Richard Strauss,
but when he gets to the true “modern-
ists” —Stravinsky, Hindemith, Krenek,
Milhaud, Schosberg and co. —he is a bit
in the position of the chameleon who
strayed on to a tartan. To generalise
about their singing characters is unthink-
able, so Herr Bekker winds up with a
melancholy epitaph: “Men no longer
know how to adjust themselves to opera
and invent the legend of its being obso-
lete.”
A. MAJOR.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Victoria of England Edith Sitwell
Man, the Unknown Alexis Carrel
The Last Civilian Ernst Glaeser
TO the finest studies of Queen Victoria
* must be added Edith Sitwell’s Victoria
of England (Faber and Faber ; Angus and
Rr»hf>rtcr>n • lie -ri • ,
Robertson , 225. 6d.). There is not actu-
ally anything new in its text; anyone
who has read Strachey and Benson, with
Maurois’s bright glimpses of the Queen
'and thncp nrinfainod in TTt a
and those contamed m Benson s Edward
VIE, will find pretty well all Miss Sit-
well’s account familiar enough in detail.
Yet this latest biography of Victoria is
in a class of its own—a feminine represen-
tahon of an eminently feminine woman;
an embracing, refreshingly personal
account of one woman analysing the
feminine character of another woman.
This outlook of Miss Sitwell’s naturally
extends to her handling of all the male
and female characters that necessarily
figure in the story, and gives freshness to
even the most hackneyed events and
situations in the biography. ’When it
comes to the handling of moments made
vivid by the drama of feminine emotions,
the account is not merely freshened, it be-
comes an entirely new story. Instance:
„ . .
Her Majesty crossed the anteroom lead-
ing from the Council Chamber, and found
that most affectionate mother, under whose
tender and enlightened care she had been
educated in England, waiting for her
daughter. At last, thought the Duchess,
swelling with pride, the triumph, the power
for which she had waited during those
18 weary years of battles and of making
two ends meet, were within her grasp. Her
daughter entered the room and paused:
And now, Mama, inquired her dutiful
child, “am I really and truly Queen?”
“You see, my dear, that this is so,” replied
the eager woman. “Then, dear Mama, I
make Tyou! If Qu«n. th 'lS 9 mfbfb}
myself for an hour.”
As her daughter spoke, a slight shadow
fell over the Duchess’s heart, a little feel-
mg of chilliness m spite of the heat of the
June day. What had happened to the
child that she should insist on her posi-
tion as Queen to her own mother?—say
that she must be alone, she who had never
known what solitude meant, even for half
an hour.... The Queen smiled at her
mother, she walked through the door, and
when she reappeared at the end of an
hour it wrs to order tlicit her bed should
be removed from her mother’s room.
When the Duchess heard the order, her
plump, rather inexpressive hands sank into
her lap apathetically her feathers, her silks
no longer flew like banners on a wind of
hope. It was for this, then, that she had
labored for 18 years, for this that she had
dedicated her life to the moulding of her
daughter’s character. She had hopes, she
i ' nter >ded to be virtual ruler of Eng-
L a ™u b a ec £ use °i tl ! ho ?, e tha t
h . e r daughter had been educated with such
rigidity, watched over with so much
care—
bate that night as [Victoria] lay in her
2H ttle f d ’ in , a ™ om far removed
PR 01 taat °* Mama, looking at the moon-
fight as it shone through the curtains,
she heard the distant sound of music
In other respects, too, Miss Sitwell’s
biography is the most broadly human
that has been written of Victoria, as it
is one of the most witty and charming,
• Whatever ma Y .be said of authorship
m ier i, ca > 11 18 “ rtai "|y ambitious
en 99 gb- )* 0 ™ ewher ® 5?. ei !f. Wl . Durant is
writing The Story of Civilisation in about
“ve volumes, which will trace out the
w “° , growth of civilisation and, when
completed, will be a load for a pack-
i 18 w^f mg the enormous
nove l which began with Look Homeward,
f nge a f n^nnL rUn lnto five ? r mc | fe
tomes of 300,000 or more words each ;
anc ! - 01 ? e the rn°st voluminous and
certainly the most lavish of romances of
. . .
this century, Anthony Adverse, is of the
same wordy vintage. Now Alexis Carrel,
in Man, the Unknown (reprinted by
Angus and Robertson ; Bs. 6d.), makes
a n effort more ambitious than any of
f i, orn • A
them, though it is an effort in compres-
Sion: He has, as he third-personally
puts it, “tried to confine all knowledge
G f man within the pages of a small
” “nr ’> u .u
book. Of course, as he rather rue-
fully admits, “he has not succeeded.”
But he has succeeded in making a most
synthesis of an extraordinary
amount and range of data. Himself a
great scientist, he has examined the enor-
mous amount of material produced in
a1 i rrmntn >o hv srmntistc’ cti.Hxr
a . C ° U ? -3 eS by scientists study of man,
digested it and bodied it forth as a com-
pact account which, while scorning to
“popularise science,” can be readily read
.f. . ,
by anyone who has sufficient intelligence
to be interested in finding out what an
extraordinary contraption he himself
rcsllv is Ocsnitr tbp sizp nf thp tnnir*
j V • F me Sl * e °* ttte t(^ lc
anc * fbe aim at compression, the author
throws off opinion (or judgment) as
freely as he gives of the pure fruits of
For PY ,mnh-_
science. For example,
Still more harm is caused by the ex-
treme specialisation of physicians. Medi-
cine has separated the sick human being
into small fragments, and each fragment
has its specialist. When a specialist, from
the beginning of his career, confines him-
self to a minute part of the body, his
knowledge of the rest is so rudimentary
that he is incapable of thoroughly under-
standing even that part in which he special-
ises. A similar thing happens to edu-
cators, clergymen, economists and sociolo-
gists who, before limiting themselves en-
tirely to their particular domain, have not
taken the trouble to acquire a general
knowledge of man. The more eminent the
specialist, the more dangerous he is. Scien-
tists who have strikingly distinguished
themselves by great discoveries or useful
inventions often come to believe that their
knowledge of one subject extends to all
others. Edison, for example, did not hesi-
tate to impart to the public his views on
philosophy or religion. And the public
listened to his words with respect, imagin-
ing them to carry as much weight on these
new subjects as on the former ones. Thus,
great men, in speaking about things they
do not thoroughly understand, hinder
human progress in one of its fields, while
having contributed to its advancement in
another. The daily press often gives us
the dubious benefit of the sociological, eco-
nomic and scientific opinions of manufac-
turers, bankers, lawyers, professors, phy-
sicians, whose highly specialised minds are
incapable of apprehending in their breadth
the momentous problems of our time.
In regard to which problems he says
elsewhere:
Modern civilisation seems to be incap-
able of producing people endowed with
imagination, intelligence and courage. In
practically every country there is a de-
crease in the intellectual and moral calibre
of those who carry the responsibility of
public affairs... .Human beings have not
grown so rapidly as the institutions sprung
from their brains. It is chiefly the intellec-
tual and moral deficiencies of the politi-
cal leaders, and their ignorance, which en-
danger modern nations.
And, at the end of his interesting exam-
ination of the subject:
For the first time in the history of
humanity, a crumbling civilisation is cap-
able of discerning the causes of its decay.
For the first time it has at its disposal the
gigantic strength of science. Will we
utilise this knowledge and this power?
It is our only hope of escaping the fate
common to all great civilisations of the
past. Our destiny is in our hands. On
the new road we must -now go forward.
On the whole, though he is anything but
an optimist, he seems to believe that, for
the first time when a great civilisation
has been threatened, the threat will be
averted by this present one.
Even in fiction it is hard to find a book
dealing with modern Germany and re-
porting adversely upon Hitlerism that is
not most blatantly propaganda, and spite-
ful at that. An exception is Ernst
Glaeser’s The Last Civilian (Ivor Nichol-
son and Watson; 7s. 6d.). Glaeser
fondles the theme of a civilised Ger-
many—neither militarist, Hitlerist nor
any other ist, but built out of the belief
of Heine: “If ever liberty disappeared
from the face of the earth—which God
forbid —a German dreamer would redis-
cover it in his dreams.” Using one of
the smaller towns for setting, Glaeser de-
picts the rising of Hitlerism from 1933
onwards as it touched, affected and
changed the general run of average Ger-
man people. He describes it vividly but
objectively, heightening the effect by the
device of having much of the changing
scene observed through the eyes of a
German expatriate returned to his native
town from America, whither his father
had fled out of a hatred for Prussianism.
The daughter the expatriate brings with
him provides a centre of emotional plot
—a love affair with a young disciple of
the Leader. This and several other inter-
woven emotional plots are so managed
as to make the novel quite a good one
apart from the main interest altogether,
and the representation generally is so
evidently fair that even a rabid Hitlerite
could hardly call it biased.
Struggle: 1914-1920: John Evelyn
Wrench (Ivor Nicholson and Watson;
15s. net). The founder of the Overseas
League, its associated Empire magazine
“Overseas” and the English-Speaking
Union here continues his reminiscences
begun in Uphill. Drawing largely upon
letters written and diaries kept during
the war period, he describes in a free-
flowing journalistic style the general war-
time atmosphere as he knew it in Paris
and London, looking on as a pressman
associate of Northcliffe and an enthusias-
tice Empire crusader. Most interesting,
perhaps, in representing the bewildered
state of mind in which the vast majority
of people went through the experience
of those bewildering times.
More Great Tales of Horror (Bodley
Head; Bs. 6d. net). Living thriller
vendors apparently not being able to
supply the demand, Marjorie Bowen
makes this second selection from past
writers of various countries. They differ
from the modern variety mainly in that
their authors really believed in the super-
natural influences that are their chief
ingredients. Hence, as the selector re-
marks, their convincing sincerity, which
makes for sound literary quality even
though the atmosphere grows somewhat
musty.
Gretchen Discovers America : Helene
Scheu-Riesz (Dent; 6s. net). Letters
written by Gretchen, daughter of a col-
lege professor, to a girl friend in Vienna.
The book should sell well in the United
States, for it depicts a country overflow-
ing with benevolent old millionaires,
mostly Quakers, whose one idea is to
serve and benefit humanity and to give
the world the blessings of peace. A mild
flirtation with a 60-year-old professor
(married) and a more serious love affair
with a young medical student, whom
Gretchen marries on the last page, are
the main sources of incident. The style is
lively, with occasional sparks of quaint
humor, but most of the people described
never lived outside heaven.
The Story of Music: Leigh Henry
(Stanley Nott; 65.). The fourth or fifth
book of the kind that has come this
reviewer’s way in the last two years.
Like the others, it covers the sort of
ground attempted by Percy Grainger in
the Chatauqua lectures he redelivered
in Australia. Like Grainger, Leigh
Henry is an executant and composer of
some tonnage. His literary style is clear
and logical, and his theorising about the
way music is and has been made is as
reasonable and rational as any theorising
about an art can be.
A Dictionary of Religion and
Religions: Richard Tnce (Barker; 9s.
net). This compiler admirably carries
out his stated aim “to provide the student
of religion as well as the general reader
with a handy volume that is up to date,
comprehensive and comparative in treat-
ment.” It is a general commentary on
many matters religious, as well as being
an explanatory and defining dictionary
of theological and ecclesiastical terms.
On some words —“religion” itself, for
example—the author’s comment spreads
out to be an article on the subject. Addi-
tionally, there are brief biographies of
religious leaders, reference to religious
societies, some account of religious belief
in various countries, and much other
most presentably arranged information.


#
#
r
.i.
3. ■>'%
*•% •*s^p if■•* | f~
,I
,/\ v- X * -v
1>
*,* f
c Ar rf
i
§
2
g§s
i
it
i
»
4
Ss?
r*si
r
i
is
1
v sS
6
®
i
a
fl
I
K
\
5-CI4-36
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE FAMOUS
ALL-WEATHER
TREAD(
EXCLUSIVE TO
GOODYEAR
PLIES OF
[EXCLUSIVE TO GOODYEAR
The "G-3" Tyre gives you far more of both
Safety AND Mileage.
The All-Weather tread, with its sharp, deep-
cut, diamond-shaped blocks has the EXTRA
GRIP you might need at any moment . . .
The Supertwist Cord Carcass gives maxi-
mum protection against blowouts and has
the EXTRA DURABILITY you need for greatest
mileage . . .
Supertwist Cord is exclusive to Goodyear.
It "stretches-and-recovers" (without break-
ing) up to 61% further than cords used in
ordinary tyres. This extra "shock-absorb-
ing" elasticity is the basis of Goodyear
durability 1
So, with both tread AND carcass specially
built to do their job, it's no wonder the
"G-3" gives you 43% (AND MORE) LONGER
NON-SKID MILEAGE!


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
BIS* 3
/•' • '
■■
mSSSr*^''
I
n -
m i
■
. -
MH
”* MM* i js J®*
I BlSllli
n
B
'
1 4
i
■I
Hi
«
M
&
sa
1
m JS|
■
M
■
■
ft
M
m
i- ;
■ ;
Si
A.
zr
mi
A-
'-
HI
I: I
m
, pi
ill
-:■
m
mmmmmmm
iSiiMilliiiiiiSiii
■
mhh
lIHHi
■ ' J<: I iili
ai
■
'WmM
mm
:■ • ■ ':,-
■
■
H Wm
!H■ 1111 ; m H : BBMWiiBMMI^. : HllBlfe f--;: >. :l v ' ■ : i OSH
ai
• : :: WS
mk£
Further View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.
yme


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2929.
April 1, 1936.
EVERY POLICY HAS ITS DAY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
XT 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street. Adelaide.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland : Saywell Buildings,' 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B Browne. Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months. £1 10s.:
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via 'France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
MAORILAND LABOR IN ACTION.
Since December 6 Maoriland has had a Labor
Government (its first), with an Australian-born Prime
Minister ; and it has also had a slump in stocks and
shares—Australian excepted—and a flight of capital,
on a small but sufficiently disquieting scale. For
these effects Ministers have only themselves to blame.
They have talked as no other Maoriland Government
talked befoie it met Parliament, and some of their
incessant yap to reporters has been very loose and
wild.
All the same, there is nothing particularly alarm-
ing in the programme read by the Governor-General
to the Parliament whose proceedings are to be broad-
cast if the public will stand it. Nor is there any reason
to fear that the Savage Government has sinister
designs on the crimson thread of kinship or the
sanctity of the marriage tie. Mr. Savage’s first words
m the House as Prime Minister were to the effect
that he had an insufficient grasp of language to
express the feelings, aspirations and love of the people
of this country for our beloved monarch, Edward
the Eighth.” Mr. Semple, his Minister of Works, has
even praised the foreign policy of Mr. Anthony Eden,
though it is only fair to mention that the panegyric
was pronounced before the arch-author of “sanctions”
staggered his own countrymen by offering to dispatch
another army of occupation (“an international force,
including British and Italian detachments”) to the
Rhineland. •
Legislation for the expansion of existing indus-
tries and the encouragement of new industries” is
promised. So also are “land settlement, the protec-
tion of British shipping, reciprocal trade agreements
with Britain and other members of the British Com-
monwealth, and the solution of transport problems,
particularly with a view to eliminating road dangers.”
All very laudable aspirations, and the Government
can t go far wrong if it places action at the service of
every one.
Among the contentious features of the programme
are “State control of currency and credit” and “a
system of guaranteed prices for farmers, with a view
to restoring the standard of living of farmers and
agricultural workers.” They may mean nothing more
than the conversion of the Reserve Bank, at present
owned by private shareholders, though the Govern-
ment nominates the governor and the deputy-gover-
nor, into a counterpart of the Commonwealth Bank,
and than an adaptation of the Paterson butter-market-
ing scheme ; but judgment must be reserved until the
Government has taken the community into its
confidence.
Contentious likewise are proposals for “increasing
wages and shortening hours in industry,” especially
as these are joined to plans for “the alleviation of
unemployment and of the conditions of destitute
people.” There has been a great deal of gassing,
particularly on the part of Mr. Armstrong, the Min-
ister of Labor, about a 40-hour week. Maoriland is
not ready for a 40-hour week, and cannot afford it.
Haying said so much, the Government may be forced
to introduce the 40-hour week in all Government
departments, but to make it general would mean fling-
ing away the advantage of comparatively low taxation,
which Maorilanders enjoy to the envy of Australians.
Re-enactment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act,
the compulsory provisions of which were abrogated
by the other side, was promised during the election
campaign, and regulation of wages and working hours
should be left to the Court.
So far the Labor Government has had a very
good “press,” and, though Reds and Tories will rail,
it may depend upon the general public’s considering
its measures on their merits. There is one neglected
field in which it has splendid opportunities. In days
now distant it was recognised by public men on both
sides of the Tasman that Maoriland —as W. P. Reeves
put it—was “linked to Australia by bonds of inter-
course, friendship and sympathy.” In 1891 it sent
a delegation, headed by Sir George Grey, to the first
national Australasian Convention, “empowered to
consider and report upon an adequate scheme for a
Federal Constitution.” In the early years of the
present century the Australian Labor party sought
the advice of Richard Seddon. Since them though
both nations have shared in heroic achievements and
deathless memories, their rulers have drifted apart.
Effects of this odd estrangement appear in the
returns of imports and exports, which show, among
other things, -that there has been a steady diversion
to Canada of Maoriland trade that Australia once
monopolised. Before the war Maoriland imports
from Canada were trifling ; in some recent years they
have exceeded the value of Maoriland imports from
Australia —by £1,142,800 in 1929 and by £587,400 in
1930. As for Australian purchases of Maoriland
merchandise, their value was greater in 1918, a war
year f£ 1,803,700), than in 1930 (£1,562,200), 1931
(£1,167,400), 1932 (£1,444,860), or 1933 (£1,393,311).
So far from encouraging trade which would be
mutually advantageous, the Australian Government
bans Maoriland potatoes and the Maoriland Govern-
ment Australian oranges. When they have to deal
with questions in which both are concerned —air-mails,
for instance —each decides its policy without refer-
ence to the other. Yet science and human daring have
reduced the gap between their islands to a matter of
hours, and every day makes it plainer that their
peoples have common interests in trade, transport and
defence. If the Australian-born Prime Minister can
get these common interests recognised to the extent
of having them promoted by common policies, he will
deserve well of both countries.
THESE BOY CRIMINALS.
In Australia in the past few months there has been
an extraordinary number of crimes of violence com-
mitted by youths. In many instances the criminals
have been scarcely more than boys, and the crimes
have resulted from most trivial causes.
Here are a few typical recent examples. A youth
robbing a suburban railway station of very little
money turned on his pursuers and killed one of them.
Another youth, employed on a Riverina (N.S.W.)
farm, took to the farm a young girl; his young grazier
employer objecting, he secured a gun, shot the
employer and dropped the body down a well. An-
other employer remonstrated with a 17-year-old boy-
caught kissing the employer’s young daughter. The
youth took a gun to settle the argument. He is now
serving a life sentence, and the employer, a ■ kindly
man with a family, lives only by a miracle.
In two other instances N. S. Wales graziers have
been shot by youths under age. A boy of 18| was
sentenced to death for the meaningless murder of
Montague Henwood, conciliation commissioner. In
a train the youth battered the old man to death.
Another youngster of about the same age has been
remitted to a lunatic asylum following an apparently
purposeless murder of a taxi-driver.
At Darlinghurst (Sydney) a garage proprietor was
shot dead at the door of his garage and two youths
were seen to run away. A boy of 18, suspected of
having shot a constable near Sydney railway station,
fired on a police party which cornered him and then
killed himself.
Those, all crimes of the last four months, occurred
in N. S. Wales alone, and there were many more.
Other States, for the same period, have their examples
of violent murder, morbid suicide pacts between young
people, and other terrible acts of this frenzy which
seems to possess a section of youth.
N. S. Wales Cabinet, alarmed at these crimes of
abnormality, is preparing special legislation. But that
will not help much. For one thing, it will operate only
after the event; for another, the roots of the trouble go
so deep and are so widespread that isolated legal Acts
cannot hope to cure the growth. Argument might
even be advanced to suggest that, instead of this being
a crime wave in the usual sense, it is an eruption out
of changing conditions of life, and practically inevit-
able.
Somebody soon after the war heralded the dawn-
ing of the age of youth. To some extent it came, its
outlook based «n the legend that it was the old men
who made wars and sent the young to death, the old
who inflicted a virtual slavery which robbed the young
of their heritage. There was another clearly visible
aspect, also linking with the war: a feeling of uncer-
tainty, a dread that if the good things of life were
not taken hurriedly those that had them within reach
might not be alive to-morrow to enjoy them. Conse-
quent to these feelings there was a loosening of tradi-
tion, discipline, guidance. And this made easy the
creation of the mob psychology of youth-in-revolt.
Dr, Poling, world-president of the Christian
Endeavor movement, described when he was here a
few weeks ago how in Moscow he saw 250,000 young-
sters marching behind the Red Flag before Stalin.
A like manifestation is the bands of youngsters who
used to constitute Germany’s Wandervogel, filling the
countryside with their tramping and singing, since
turned into Nazis, to form the bulk of Hitler’s follow-
ing. The young members are the core of Mussolini’s
Fascists. Students of China, India, France, Spain,
Cuba are the organised centres of all restlessness.
In all this revolt of youth there is a show of confi-
dence ; but psychologists who have studied it report
thSt by far its largest ingredient is unconscious mob
fear which is half-hysteria. That is the reason given
for youth movements having become manifold and
easily susceptible to fanatical leadership.
Youth itself is producing little leadership. There
are no 25-year-old Pitts or 27-year-old Napoleons.
Baldwin, Mussolini, Hitler, Einstein, Stalin, Roose-
velt, Marconi, Millikan and a hundred or more who
have contributed to leadership, invention, construc-
tion or stability—all are men of another period. The
number of men under 30 who implement the ideals
of youth in Australian Parliaments can be counted
almost on the fingers of a hand.
But there are spheres in which youth takes the
forefront: sport and adventure—and, lately, crime.
In the first two spheres Australia has a glorious
record. The young Kingsford Smith, the young
Melrose and Butler, young Jack Hides of Papua, a
dozen young rescuers in shark accidents, the young
Bradman and the galaxy of swimmers and athletes
whose names are known round the world —these and
many others of their kind show that there are still fibre
and gallantry in the race.
The other side of the picture is as dark as theirs
is bright. It will not be made to shine by mere Acts
of Parliament concerned only with the punishment
or treatment of the young criminals. It represents
something lost out of life itself, something abandoned
which has to be replaced. Youth, seemingly all-
confident, is, in fact, without confidence. That is
evident the world over in its susceptibility to fanatical
leadership, and that weakness is evident again in the
susceptibility of sections of youth to the leadership
of crime.
This is not a simple problem. It is fearfully deep
and involved. It demands on youth’s part a return
to ideals that long ages of trial and suffering by youth
itself have proved to be true. The lost guidance, the
discipline of the very young, the cultivation of a sense
of proportion and responsibility will need to be im-
posed again. Less hysterical glorification of crime and
sensation by the press, talkies and the like would
certainly help. But, after all, the return of hope and
incentive to the young individual to make his own
future and stand on his own feet is the true panacea
for the lack of balance tragically manifest in this
age of youth.
QUESTIONS FOR GENEVA.
An itinerant League of Nations official has made a
great business of telling us —he may still be at it in
the confines of Woop—that the composite political
organisation which employs him offers vital security
to Australia. He has not told us precisely how the
League proposes to make the offer good.
“Offers” are easy. One was made by the Theo-
dore Government to settle all Australia’s financial
worries by inflation of the currency. There was
another, by Mr. Lang, to get rid of the burden of
foreign indebtedness. Australia did not accept either
—indeed, she promptly cast the makers of those offers
into outer political darkness.
Of course, they were politicians, and really polite
people are expected not to laugh out loud when the
League claims to be purely non-political. As Mr.
Pickwick was informed a century ago by a foreign
gentleman of vague nationality who would to-day
have certainly been holding a lucrative post under the
League, “The word poltik surprises by himself.” He
certainly does—particularly at Geneva. He surprises
most in the marvellous multiplicity of “offers.”
Any Australian who has an opportunity of en-
lightenment from a genuine Leaguer might well put
a few questions for plain unequivocal reply regarding
these “offers” and other matters. None of the ques-
tions should be difficult to answer truly and briefly,
the function of the League being to collect and study
the real world facts regarding war dangers.
It would, for instance, be interesting to learn,
straight from the horse’s mouth, whether any country
is completing preparations to dictate to Europe, by
force of arms, just how much of the earth’s surface
that country shall possess in the near future. And
is the League doing anything about it?
Assured on that point, the inquirer might ask
whether or not England has made an enemy of an old
and tried friend —Italy. If so, why didn’t the League
foresee and prevent the breach? Is that not what
the League is for? If there is no real ill-feeling, why
doesn’t the League use its influence to suppress the
criminal misrepresentations of the daily press? An
ensuing query as to whether the League believes that
France will ever go to war in Europe at the League s
request, whatever happens, would be apposite.
It would, too, be intensely interesting, at this
stage of enlightenment, to learn precisely what the
League is actually doing in the matter of checking
any of the great predatory nations who talk war,
prepare for war and mean war. The reply would
make quite clear the actual value of the League in
the business of war-prevention, for which it was
created, and by which it lives happily on the shores
of Lake Geneva. If nations such as Germany and
lapan, for example, are being misrepresented by the
press, why does not the League take action in the
interests of world peace?
Coming nearer home, our Leaguer might well be
asked to tell us whether, if the British Navy becomes
involved in European waters by even a small war,
Australia will not be practically defenceless and liable
to be raided, or even occupied? If so, too, what is
the League prepared to do about it? If not, how,
precisely, does the League’s spokesman know?
As a practical anti-war expert, our Leaguer should
be able to say quite definitely whether Australia is
in any danger, great or small, from anywhere. If
so, has the League done anything, does it mean to
do anything, or can it do anything to protect us other-
wise than by trusting, as we do, to the British Navy?
If not, will not our best and wisest course be to
save the £66,000 yearly which we contribute towards
the international picnic beside Lake Geneva and add
it to whatever amount may be forthcoming from Mr.
Lyons’s belated promise to do something about
defence? That would, in the last resort, afford
us the dying consolation that we had not been befooled
to the'bitter end —at least, to not more than £66,000
worth per annum, until we got sense.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ludwig Schmidt Is Hanged.
Though many natives—sometimes as many as a dozen
in a year —have been hanged in the Mandated Terri-
tory of New Guinea, as well as a Chinaman or so,
there has been no protest. But when it came to
Ludwig Schmidt, the Canberra rafters rang with objec-
tions from both sides of the House, though Schmidt’s
crimes were some of the worst ever committed in
the Territory.
He was not convicted on the evidence of natives,
but on that of his associates. Several murders and
attempted murders of innocent bystanders were
sheeted home to him.
An inoffensive elderly native who was sitting
down unarmed watching him and his companions
make camp he ordered away. Then he fired after
him for no apparent reason. A second man he shot
in the body as he was obeying an order to leave. A
third native was slaughtered with a rifle at eight
yards’ range when the murderer and his boys visited
a village in which they had no business to be. Still
another black, peacefully beating a drum in a village
square, was wiped out by a bearer-boy under instruc-
tion from his master. An onlooker who protested
was battered with a rifle-butt, and still another fell
dead with a bullet in him.
There was not the slightest evidence of any
excuse for this wanton slaughter, but every reason
for not killing these simple people, apart from motives
of ordinary humanity and decency. Mainly, the
murderer’s act was likely to provoke tribes to wipe
out, in retaliation, any white who might come along.
The only real reason advanced against the execu-
tion was the effect which the hanging of a white might
have on the prestige of Europeans in the Mandate.
Nobody worried much about this when Germans
were ignominiously flogged on the open parade-ground
during the war because they, in turn, had beaten an
Australian missionary. And people like Schmidt have
to be taught that they cannot treat human beings in
a fashion so barbarous that sentimentalising over it is
itself sickening.
The Mandated Administration needs a lesson or
two as well. It should learn that only men of high
character and experience should be allowed to lead
prospecting and exploring parties into the back
country. The evidence in the Schmidt and allied cases
showed that there were in August-September, 1934,
no less than three parties abroad in the Sepik region
whose leaders were all engaged in perpetrating one
kind or another of illegal horror on the natives, who
had shown them nothing but friendliness.
♦- ———-
Swelling Queensland’s Unemployed.
Queensland’s Minister for Labor and Industry Hynes
states that transfer of unemployed to Queensland
without providing for their absorption in industry
would simply add to the unemployment burden. In
its place he suggests transfer of industries, or sections
of industries, from overseas, with migrants to operate
them.
Excellent; but Mr. Hynes omitted to state that
the practical policy of Queensland’s Government
encourages the first and deters the second, largely
through the department of which Mr. Hynes has
charge, but with notable aid from its Taxation Depart-
ment.
Taxation in Queensland is frankly outrageous.
On the State’s system of assessing companies the
Royal Commission on Taxation said nasty things
which have had a good deal of overseas pub-
licity among industrial interests. The Common-
wealth Grants Commission considered Queensland the
most highly taxed of all the States.
The reason for these undesirable advertisements
(from the capital-attraction viewpoint) is mainly
Queensland’s scandalous mulctings of thrift and indus-
try under the guise of unemployment relief. Last
financial year Queenslanders paid £2 10s. 3d. per
head on this item, N. S. Wales paid £2 os. 3d. and
Victoria 18s. sd. Yet Mr. Hynes and his colleagues
claim that Queensland has the lowest unemployed rate.
One outcome is that the unemployed of other
States, where there is not this magnificent measure of
political financial generosity, are flocking to share the
gifts extracted by the Forgan Smith taxation machine
for the benefit of those who can be depended on to
vote the right ticket at the next State or Federal—
especially Federal—election. Now and then there is
a Ministerial reference to some of these newcomers
having been returned to the N. S. Wales border, with
enough rations to set them on their way; but no
nasty inquisitiveness is shown, and for every one
returned a score remain, with the privileges attaching
to Queensland unemployment. It is doubtless good
political policy, since the destination of such votes is
a foregone conclusion, and six months soon pass.
♦
New Guinea Not So Sick.
“Merlin’s” diagnosis:
The real reason why New Guinea finances are now
peculiar is that during boom times they were even more
peculiar. The Administration was then criticised because it
stuck to the policy of living out of its income and not
raising loans for public works and more evanescent matters.
A “Plain English” writer (B. 25/3/’36) said: “New
sources for extortion —gold in particular —have come along,
but no attempt has been made to use the balances to reduce
revenue collections, which have climbed from £242,000 11
years ago to just on £400,000.” The gold royalty, 5 p.c., is
the same as it was. Gold is at a premium of 100 p.c.-odd.
Is this extortion? And there is no income tax, wages tax
or euphemism therefor, except the native-labor tax. The
242:400 is-a little less than the increase in total trade in the
same time.
“Import duties have steadily increased.” They remain
at 10 p.c. on practically -everything, and the 20 p.c. on a
few items is much below that paid in Australia. And there
is no “primage” or other disguise.
“Export duties have been reduced.” If the duty had
remained at its fixed rate per ton there would have been
no fall. As it was the planter was helped by the introduction
of a sliding scale of duty that resulted in his paying nothing
at all. And standardisation by Government means that he
gets £1 or so a ton more for his copra than other island
growers. .
Very little less was spent on health, and during the time
of economy this branch was not forced to draw in its horns
for lack of funds. For a long time the Territory spent a
fifth of its whole revenue on its health service, and new
hospitals were provided.
The “new works” have been long on the waiting list,
and most Governments would have raised a loan of £lOO,OOO,
spent the lot on the £61,000-worth, and then put on an
income tax to pay the interest.
But seriously I suggest that in no other comparable
country does the ordinary private citizen get more protection
and service for less cost in taxes.
♦
Mr. Lyons Discovers a Snowball.
The Prime Minister’s opinion of what constitutes
recovery, expressed last week in Adelaide, confirms
that a politician’s idea of prosperity takes no account
of final reckonings.
Just as it was difficult to steady the progress of
depression, so is it difficult to steady up the progress
of recovery, which is going on like a snowball.
It sounds like a distorted echo of the policy
Mr. Davidson, of the ’Wales, attributed to the
Commonwealth Bank Board. It amounts to side-
stepping the fact that unbalanced Budgets make
Government borrowing heavy and increasingly costly.
It has been competitive borrowing, too. When
the banks reduced their three months’ deposit rate
to \\ p.c. (in August, 1934) Governments were able
to borrow locally at 3 p.c. Between November, 1934,
and December, 1935, £35,000,000 was borrowed on
the open market, offered interest rising from £3 os.
sd. p.c. to £3 15s. sd. p.c. The banks, meantime, had
lost £9,000,000 in fixed deposits: New capital raised
by public companies in the same time didn’t exceed
£6,000,000, and their calls on the market in the three
preceding years (goldmines excluded) wouldn’t total
£1,000,000.
Rather than prosperity having got out of hand,
the truth is that control is slipping. Few people other
than politicians whooped about the return of pros-
perity. True, things have improved immensely in many
industries, but in most cases that is largely attribut-
able to a lower standard of costs, achieved by private
enterprise despite crippling taxation.
Bank advance rates, mortgage rates and returns
from ordinary shares have been the lowest on record.
It is significant that the first upward movement in
interest rates took place in Government loans, and
that it was an issue of Treasury bills that precipitated
other rises. Banks were finding their resources taxed
by the demands of expanding businesses, but they
believed themselves capable of handling that problem.
There has been little rise in non-rural commodity
prices from the lowest level of the depression. So
there has been no price boom. But politicians let
up just as soon as things began to look better. Mr.
Lyons and others voted themselves extra salary, but
taxation on depression scale still remains. That is the
real snowball. The Commonwealth Statistician’s
figures show that the man in the street’s money-wages
have increased by little more than 2 p.c. since the
depths of the depression ; though about 21 p.c. below
boom times, they will now buy 31 p.c. more. There
is no snowball in those economic facts.
♦
The Federal Aid Roads Racket.
The Federal Aid Roads Agreement, to be extended
until June next year, is a blind for levying the crush-
ing taxation on petrol which holds back transport and
raises the cost of living outback.
The original agreement, framed by the Bruce-Page
Government, provided for a grant by the Common-
wealth of £2,000,000 a year to the States for ten years
from July 1, 1926. For every £1 provided by the
Commonwealth the States had to put up 15s.
That was knocked by the depression ; the States
could not find the 15s. So the agreement was
amended. Instead of the £2,000,000 a year, the Com-
monwealth agreed to allocate an amount equal to
21d. a gallon customs duty and lid. a gallon excise
duty on petrol each year for road expenditure ; the
States were not required to make any contribution.
Having secured the support of the States by giving
them a share of the loot, the Commonwealth increased
the petrol duty to 7d. a gallon, which primage lifts
to 71d. So what seemed in 1926 the act of a fairy
godmother now became an extremely profitable busi-
ness for the Commonwealth. In the last four financial
years it was enabled to raise £23,903,396 in import
duty and excise on petrol, of which it was required
to hand over to the States only £8,407,850.
Petrol Amount Allotted
Taxation. for Roads.
1932 .. .. £5,091,604 £1,812,139
1933 .. •• 5,510,147 1,922,048
1934 .. .. 6,275,174 2,207,683
1935 .. .. 7,024,471 2,465,980
So nearly £5,000,000 of petrol tax a year is being
used to help pay for royal commissions, Ministerial
trips abroad, contributions to the League of Nations
and similar purposes which have no relation whatever
to transport or roads.
*
Things We Don’t Hear About.
No publicity has been given in the Australian press
to Lord Hardinge’s strong criticism of the Edenish
brand of foreign policy.
Lord Hardinge said that Abyssinia had broken
all the pledges it had given when it joined the League
of Nations, and it would be a crime to sacrifice the
life of a single British soldier to “save” such a savage
and barbarous race. He added that, if Italy were
driven by extreme sanctions to a situation of despera-
tion and despair by suffering at home, there was
nothing that it might not do to bring down the
whole edifice of European peace.
Lord Hardinge is a trained diplomat; twice per-
manent head of the Foreign Office, and a British
Ambassador both in France and Russia.
We also get a new angle on the German situa-
tion from Sisley Huddleston, writing in the “Fort-
nightly” (London) on the League of Nations and its
derangements. Huddleston says that when the League
of Nations platonically condemned Germany last
year for abrogating the provisions of the Versailles
Treaty, he (Huddleston) ventured to remark to a well-
known delegate at Geneva that the President of the
Council was a representative of Turkey, which had
torn up the Treaty of Sevres, and sitting beside him
were the representative of Russia, which had repudi-
ated the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, and the represen-
tative of Poland, which had just then declared that
it would no longer be bound by the Minorities Treaty,
and the representatives of Great Britain, France and
Italy, which had unilaterally cancelled their debts to
the U.S.A.
Huddleston expresses the belief that Article XVI
of the Covenant is a delusion and a snare, and a
potential peril to mankind, adding: “The trouble with
the Council of the League is that scarcely any of its
members have clean hands.”
Columns of like attack by similarly-qualified
people appear in the British press. No one would
suspect it from the tone of the cable news.
♦
Dodging a Divorce Issue.
Part V of the Commonwealth Constitution gives
Parliament far-reaching powers in marriage and
divorce which have never been exercised. How far
the natural rights of infants, wards and minors whose
family position is equivocal have been prejudiced by
this failure can never be known. But it is known
that much suffering and financial loss have been
caused to wives.
The main trouble affecting injured wives—the
absence of an Australian domicile —has been aired
in the House of Reps, by two Vic. lawyers of
opposing party affiliations —Messrs. Blackburn and
Holt —who made a strong case for immediate Com-
monwealth action. A lethargic Government did not
deign even to reply. The Minister in charge merely
moved the adjournment of the debate to April 16,
when it is unlikely the House will be sitting ; thus
the issue is treated with contempt.
Speaking to Mr. Blackburn’s motion that the
Government should pass legislation to create an Aus-
tralian domicile, Mr. Holt gave examples of the hard-
ships and injustice inflicted upon women victims of
unhappy marriages, many of whom have hopelessly
strained their resources by travelling from State to
State without securing relief. One example;
A man who had been living, apparently per-
manently, in Queensland left his wife in circumstances
which would give her the right to a divorce, and went
to Western Australia. The wife consulted a lawyer on
the question of domicile (some years having elapsed
since the desertion), and decided to take herself and
her witnesses off to Western Australia. The Western
Australian Supreme Court held that the man was domi-
ciled in Queensland, and the plaintiff had to pack up
and go back to Queensland, with no certainty when she
left that the Queensland Court would be bound by
the Western Australian decision.
An Act passed in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment would create an Australian domicile and remove
for ever this shameful injustice. Until this is done
Australian nationality can be for injured wives a
mere mockery.
* : -
Trams, Trollies and Buses.
N.S.W. Transport Commissioner Maddocks has at
last acknowledged that, as far as popular favor is con-
cerned, trams are losing ground. This has been evident
for years, and popularity was not regained by driving
private bus services off the roads. Mr. Maddocks
now says that trams will be replaced by trackless
trolley buses within 10 years new trams
are still being ordered and built. Whether this policy
tends to lighten the £12,000,000 of debt which Mr.
Maddocks bewails as holding back modernisation is
a matter on which most people could give a quick
decision.
There is no need to postulate what might be the
result if half the trams in Sydney were placed end
to end. That is a picture which can be seen in George-
street any day between 5 and 6 p.m.; or, if a break-
down occurs, in any street at any time.
If a bus breaks down it draws to one side of
the road, the next bus picks up its passengers and
the service goes on unhindered. If a road becomes
blocked the buses make a detour and carry on. A
tram service may be wholly or partly paralysed by
an accident at a power station, the snapping of an
overhead power cable or the breakdown of one tram.
Such a breakdown not only dislocates the business
of passengers, it may isolate suburbs, and has the
immediate effect of congesting all othei vehicular
traffic using the road. Trolley buses, although an
advance on the trams, are also liable to be paralysed
by any stoppage of power supply, and as a service
are therefore highly vulnerable.
If Sydney were at any time threatened with danger
from an invader or from local rioting, half a dozen
determined men acting under orders could paralyse
city and suburban traffic, as at present controlled, at
any given moment. Buses are mobile ; they can act
independently, are not restricted to one vulnerable
track, and constitute a form of transport which can
service Burwood, Bourke or Borroloola with equal
facility.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Findy”: Dr. Goebbels’s assertion, in
a speech at Frankfort, that England had
“grabbed colonies while Germany was in
the throes of the Thirty Years’ War”
may sound all right for home consump-
tion, but it’s unlikely to appeal to any-
one with a knowledge of history. The
only colonies “grabbed” by Britain be-
tween 1618 and 1648 were Nova Scotia
(held for four years and then ceded to
France, subsequently reverting to Britain
under the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713),
Honduras and a few West Indian islands.
The Thirty Years’ War undoubtedly
crippled Germany for a long time —
Macaulay, I think, considered its effects
were still apparent after 150 years, and
during that period quite a large portion
of the globe wow painted red, but there
is nothing in Germany’s record before
1618 to suggest that she would have built
up an overseas empire in competition
with the British, French, Dutch,
Spaniards and Portuguese. I don’t recol-
lect ever hearing of a Prussian pirate or
a Bavarian buccaneer.
* . * * *
“J. 8.5.”: By way of a final word on
this Stuart-Stewart controversy, may I
point out that the name is spelt Stewart
on all the royal tombs at Holyrood
Palace? This is the case also at Hamil-
ton Palace in Fifeshire, as well as West-
minster Abbey. “Stuart” was originally
a French corruption for the want of the
letter “w” in the French language.
* * * *
“Selma”: It isn’t because women are
more absent-minded than men that their
goods figure so much more largely at
lost-property sales (B. 25/3/’36). No
man goes out with as much impedimenta
as the average woman, and certainly
none comes home with anything like the
lumber acquired by mum and the girls
in a day’s excursion to the city. Taxi-
drivers collect all manner of gadgets,
such as powder-puffs, mirrors, nail-files
and handkerchiefs, with an occasional
fur coat or gold wristlet watch for
variety, all left by fares who had already
handbags, flowers, parasols, fans and
other items to look after. In any subur-
ban train or tram the feminine portion
of the company may be seen going home
looking like parcel deliveries: the men
mostly have nothing but the evening
paper.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: “No,” said Mrs. Jones
to-day, “I won’t give me consent to the
kids bein’ memorised with that there
dip’theria stuff wot they’re wantin’ to do
them with at the school. Flyin’ in the
face of Providence, I call it, to put
poisons into their pore little systems.
Better for them to get the dip’theria over
an’ done with than ’ave ’em poisoned
with a lot of doctors’ memorisin’ fads.”
One’s mind went back to student days
before antitoxic serum came to Australia
—the ghastly chokings and smugglings,
the long whistle of inrushing air through
a hastily-inserted tracheotomy tube, rows
of child corpses in the mortuary. Then
the miracle of serum, first cutting the
"George, how could you? On my honeymoon, too!”
“Well, it ' s my honeymoon, too, isn't it?”
death-rate in half and then forcing it
steadily down to previously unheard-of
figures of lowness. Long after, the toxin-
antitoxin injections which protect for
years. Now the anatoxin type, which
could abolish diphtheria altogether in a
brief space. Why doesn’t it? Mrs. Jones
and her kind provide the answer.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A woman’s generous inten-
tion and subsequent change of mind
have caused a lawsuit in S.A. The
direction to the executors was to “sell
my business,” and out of the proceeds
to divide £2500 among the elder em-
ployees. Later, the testator sold the
business herself, the will remaining un-
altered. Question for the Court: Were
the old-time employees entitled to the
£2500 at the lady’s death? Judgment
against them, on the ground that the
executors cannot carry out the first direc-
tion, and so the second one fails with if.
* 5k * *
“Erka”: Engrossing of legal docu-
ments (B. 11/3/’36) has not entirely dis-
appeared in Queensland. The Supreme
Court insists on all probates and letters
of administration being hand-engrossed,
but true engrossing or ronde characters
are not always employed. The senior
member of a well-known typewriting
firm in Brisbane is a specialist who caters
for a number of solicitors, but some of
the older legal firms have at least one
clerk who can engross satisfactorily. Out-
side of probates, the only hand-engrossed
documents seen are certificates dealing
with company incorporation and the ad-
mission of barristers and solicitors.
Quills, greased parchment and pounce
have been replaced by a steel engrossing
nib and special English engrossment
paper—the last, by the way, is sold at
250 p.c. above its retail price in England.
* $ Hs 5k
“Kali”: “Oran” (B. 18/3/’36) might
like to know that the police do have a
periodic round-up of firearms, the aver-
age number of confiscated revolvers
being 2000. Usually these implements
find a resting-place in deep water outside
Sydney Heads, the weapons being dis-
mantled and different parts dropped in
widely scattered spots. This year, how-
ever, the total bag was just short of 1400.
They were taken to Eveleigh railway
workshops and melted down in the fur-
nace for use as wheel-brakes.
* * * *
“Huer”: The abos. weren’t the only
ones to park sentinels on the cliffs to
watch for schools of fish (B. 25/3/’36).
At Port Noarlunga (S.A.) many years
ago there was always a
lookout man on top
of the sandhills for this
purpose, and doubtless
the same custom pre-
vailed at all points
where the coastline was
lofty and the fish regu-
lar callers. My great-
great - great - grand-
parents on my aunt’s
side used to spy upon
the unsuspecting fish in
the same way along the
coast of Cornwall and
in the Channel Islands.
The antiquity of their
calling is shown by the
name given them,
“huers,” a Norman-French word meaning
“one who cries out.” Its only surviving
descendant is the phrase “hue and cry”
-which reminds me that I’ve never actu-
ally seen or heard anyone raising a hue
and cry, although I am perpetually read-
ing about it.
8.. . ,
“J.R.D.”: “Nkata’s” statement (B.
18/3/’36) would have been correct if it
had read “A.1.F.” in place of “Aussies ”
Admittedly, beyond one transport unit
the A.I.F. did not reach France till 1916,
but there were hundreds of Australians
there from 1914. Several British units
were entirely composed of men from
overseas. Some of those units were quite
as Australian as some A.I.F. units, where
the proportion of British immigrants was
very h^h " Many tTm were in
France over a year before the A.I.F.
arrived, and it was to those Aussies that
my par. referred
P ** * * *
“Bassanio”: There’s nothing new in
the recent disclosures about the inti-
mate relations existing between embar-
rassed civil servants and accommodat-
ing moneylenders. Whether persons in
steady Government jobs are more
addicted to borrowing than those in
private employ may be debatable, but
there is no possible doubt with which
class of wage-earners the moneylender
prefers to do business. Anthony Trol-
lope, who was in the Postal Department
himself, knew all about the vexed sub-
ject ; it intrudes into several of his novels,
notably The Three Clerks, written three-
quarters of a century ago. And in those
days the civil servant held his job on a
much more precarious tenure than nowa-
days, his pension rights were less clearly
defined, and no heartless Shylock could
garnishee the debtor’s screw, or sufficient
of it to satisfy his claims, at the depart-
mental fountain-head. Little wonder that
civil servants are regarded as more reli-
able “marks” than ever —at all events for
small loans —by the professional money-
lender.
>k 5k *
“Sinnik”: A refreshing departure from
handing out hypocritical compliments to
one’s political opponents on public and
semi-public occasions is reported from
a rural hamlet in Victoria. There a
newly-elected shire councillor was
warmly welcomed by the president with
the usual accompaniment of congrats. The
newcomer’s reply was brief. He said he
was convinced that the president, who
had worked against his election night
and day, would sooner have seen him
in Hades than in the council. A dazed
silence followed before the business of
the meeting was proceeded with.
* * *
“Brighton-road”: Perhaps the most
naive defence ever offered at a murder
trial was that of Edward Cornelius, sen-
tenced to death in Melbourne for the
killing of the Rev. Harold Laceby Cecil,
vicar of St. Savior’s Church, Fitzroy.
According to his own admissions, Cor-
nelius went to the vicarage with a
trumped-up story of an impending mar-
riage, intending to go back “for money.”
He returned,' and was “unexpectedly set
upon by the vicar”! A motor mechanic
by trade, he had provided himself with
a spanner, bought on the previous day
for ninepence; with this he hit out
blindly till “he fell, striking his head on
a couch.” Of course, he remembered
nothing more, though in his temporary
forgetfulness he contrived to inflict
upon the poor old man of God what the
Government pathologist described as “17
separate wounds on the head,” also to
“make away with the vicar’s wallet, two
watches, a chain and a gold cross.”
Asked if he had anything to say before
Martin, J., put on the black cap, he
said, “Your Honor, I’m afraid the jury
have made a grave mistake.”
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Members of Sydney life-
saving clubs are out of favor with some
of the local aldermen. They are accused
of behaving like yahoos after beach com-
petitions from which they return in
motor-lorries ; it is alleged that, blown
with insolence and beer, they amuse
themselves by guying people they pass,
especially tennis knuts and flappers. At
the knuts they sometimes hurl ill-aimed
bottles. But, after all, these choice spirits
are only living up to their newspaper
reputations. Newspapers habitually refer
to them as “Greek gods,” and, with few
exceptions, Greek gods were boisterous
fellows.
* * * h:
“G.S.”: Victoria is to hang Sodeman,
the self-confessed murderer of June
Rushmer, Ethel Belshaw, Hazel Wilson
and Mena Griffiths. Sodeman is of Ger-
man descent, though he was once con-
victed under the name of Phillips. For
the ruffian had a “record” before he
entered upon his fearful career as a
homicidal sadist; as a young man he
got a so-called indeterminate sentence
for forgery (it was very unfortunately
determined in 12 months), and three
years for attempted robbery under arms.
Schmidt, who has been hanged in New
Guinea for butchering brown brethren —
despite humanitarian Federal Labor
efforts, expressed in very inhumanitarian
language, to save his neck—was an
Austro-German. German also, of course,
is Hauptmann, who, as I write, is about
to be executed in the U.S.A. for the
murder of the Lindbergh baby. Ger-
mans, as Australians know, are less
addicted to crime than most peoples.
Strange that unworthy members of their
race should be simultaneously consigned
to condemned cells in three countries for
crimes which have arrested the attention
of the civilised world. A contributor
recently quoted Burke’s remark that he
knew not the art of drawing up an in-
dictment against a whole nation. I dare-
say embittered Jews will exploit the
Sodeman, Schmidt and Hauptmann
affairs to attempt what Burke disavowed,
much as he hated the French,
FIVE S., SIX D.
“The declining birth-rate was giving cause for
anxiety. He hoped Australians would rise to their
responsibilities in this regard.” —Prime Minister
Lyons at Adelaide.
There’s a burden I would lay upon you,
brothers —
Sisters, too —an obligation you must face.
And be sure you heed my words, you dads
and mothers
Both in esse and in posse of the race!
I appeal to you with fervor and with unction,
As the Hebrew prophets called of old 1 cry
For compliance with the Biblical injunction,
The order to increase and multiply.
There’s a lot to read with deference in the
various books of reference
That devote a stick or two of type to me,
But the item that I treasure with the maximum
of pleasure
Is the single line —“five s., six d.”
Pull your socks up! Make your progeny more
ample!
Give more hostages to fortune, all and each!
You may take me for a pattern and example,
For it’s passing plain I practise what I
preach.
Such advice as mine might sound a trifle hollow
In some highly-placed philanthropists we
know,
But to bid my fellow-citizens to follow
A path untrod by me is—not for Joe!
Though I’ve snavelled plums and prizes in all
sorts of shapes and sizes
Since the days I used to teach the rule-of-
three,
Nothing in my life of action gives me keener
satisfaction
Than my tally of “five s., six d.”
The turkey may be finer fare and thrillier
Than any other fowl for knife and fork,
But I fain would see my country more familiar
With that inestimable bird the stork.
In the hottest of the Parliament’ry racket,
In the wildest war of words that whip and
sting,
He would light upon my roof-tree with a
packet
As warmly welcome as the flow’rs in spring.
And I never found the emu more impressive
than a seamew,
And the lyrebird never filled my heart with
glee
Like the long-billed fowl who stages my
prestige in history’s pages
As the parent of “five s., six d.”
Up and take my tip, my brothers!—and I
ask it
As one who has some knowledge of the
ropes:
You must relegate old Malthus to the basket
And toss into the discard Marie Stopes.
For we must acquire a decent population
Before our possie in the sun we hit.
It puts a sacred trust on us, the nation,
For high and low alike to do their bit.
And mid all Who’s Who recitals of my multi-
farious titles
To fame —and that’s including a P.C. —
There is nothing specified in all the lot I take
such pride in
As that brief remark—“five s., six d.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sergeant A.A.S.C.”; A number of
German guns captured by the Austra-
lians at Messines in June, 1917, were
parked in a long line in the Grande
Place at Bailleul when King George,
with the Prince of Wales, visited the
town. H.M. showed a keen interest in
the captured guns, and spent a lot of
time over them. The Prince was less in-
terested—in fact, he seemed a trifle bored
before the end of the line of artillery
was reached. It was when the King was
making a specially close examination of
the last and biggest gun that some girls
in a first-floor window across the way
caught the Prince’s eye and smiled and
waved their hands. Several people must
have noticed the incident, but it was an
Aussie voice that rang out —and I can
hear it yet —“They’re better’n wot the
old man’s lookin’ at, ain’t they, Teddy?”
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: I read a yarn, having its
setting in Tasmania, that mentioned a
fox barking in the night. Of course,
sound does travel across water, and if a
fox were to bark very loudly from some
eminence, say Wilson’s Promontory, a
northerly zephyr might waft the sound
across the strait. I well remember the
stream of invective that polluted the air
one evening at Currie (King Island). At
first I thought it was a drunk being kicked
out of the pub, but then it struck me
that my Melbourne boss must have re-
ceived my letter asking for an additional
“As for Mrs. Tredizzick, she's a leddy fit for any comp’ny”
tenner for expenses. Of course, the old
man has a rather loud voice, and thinks
the new Bass Strait cable is a silly idea,
* * * *
“Hecagus”: I retain one vivid Boer
War memory of the recently mentioned
Lieut. J. B. Higginson—and I wouldn’t
mind betting that he remembers it, too.
One cold night we were marching on
Wepener on the Caledon River. Soon
after daybreak No. 4 Division under J.
B. Higginson was ordered to cross the
river to protect the left flank, but the
guide (a Dutchman) couldn’t or wouldn’t
find the “drift” ; hence we were forced
to get down the 15ft. banks as best we
could. After extricating ourselves from
the bitterly cold water, we had to face
"And, Meadows, when you hear me say 'ovah' come in and turn the
page."
the fire of a number of enemy snipers.
Advancing across a wide plateau we saw
numbers of Boers riding along a narrow
ravine beneath us, and were just opening
fire when some knowall gave it as his
opinion that they were our own men.
The lieutenant focused his glasses on
the riders. “I believe they are,” he pro-
nounced. “Cease fire at once!” and
when one or two stragglers persisted:
“The next man who fires a shot I’ll place
under arrest!” A minute or two later
some well-placed Boer snipers left behind
to protect their rear threw a fistful or
two of red-hot lead and nickel among us.
“There y’are, Higgy,” yelled Dan
Heenan, the wag of our division, as he
dived for cover; “place those blankards
under arrest!”
* * * *
“Carholme”; I can recall a dozen
misinterpreted cablegrams that have
brightened up newspapers and created
harmless merriment (B. 25/3/’36), but the
one I liked best of all appeared in a
Westralian goldfields newspaper some 27
years ago. The message ran “Lincoln
Ob Dean Swift Early Morn,” conveying
(or intended to convey) in the briefest
possible compass the names of the three
placed horses in the Lincolnshire Handi-
cap. But the sub. apparently took little
or no interest in racing results, and he
mistook the “Ob” as an abbreviation for
the “Obit” frequently associated with a
death notice. Accordingly the published
version ran: “Dean Swift died at Lin-
coin early this morning”!
“Ringkeeper’s Urger”: The old swi-
up’s been gettin’ ’anded a few clouts
lately, I see. Some cove’s been goin’ lousy
becorse it’s been called Australya’s
nashnal game. Well, ain’t it? If he
come an’ got an eyeful of Flat-Conk
Harry’s school over at Yarra Bay of a
Sundey mornin’ I bet ’e’d sing a dif-
f’rent tune. Just becorse it don’t get the
publisity that these queeny sport§ like
football an’ ’ockey get blokes like ’im
think it ain’t much chop. An’ now I see
some syentific cove at Cambridge,
wherever that is, ’as discovered a law
which determin’s ’eds or micks, and ’e’s
fixed up some sort of a gadget that can
make the browns come down whichever
way ’e wants ’em. Strike me! A man’s
got to ’ave ’is eyes skinned as it is for
the double-’edder, but if some cow rings
in a syentific kip that can work the
scones or outs that’s goin’ to muck
the game up proper. Onse they start get-
tin’ tjie crook stuff, that’s the end of it.
Swi-up’s the fairest game goin’, but this’ll
crool it altogether. Can you give us the
oil ’ow a bloke can get in touch with this
’ere syentific joker?
* * * *
“Dominic”: That par about the
Yanks suspecting aphrodisiac properties
in the Australian passion-fruit recalls
that the tomato, when first introduced
into Britain, was accredited with similar
properties, hence the old name of “love
apple.” Even to-day the elderly Chinese
epicure sups on trepang or beche-de-mer
soup with the assured conviction that it
will restore some of his youthful vigor.
But is there any food which possesses
such a property? I know of quite a
number of Westralians who swear by a
good feed of estuary crabs, especially of
the big males, “bluemanners.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Judge Perdriau, as chair-
man of the Workers’ Compensation
Commission, was quite unmoved when
a witness told how he had “lost his
block.” He merely remarked that it
meant the same thing as the American
“slipped his trolly,” whereupon a solici-
tor suggested “got off his bike” as an
alternative, and the Judge came back
with “flew off the handle” as another.
Some Judges might have got hot under
the collar and objected to liberties being
taken with the King’s English, but
’Sonah made quite a nice little sym-
posium of the discussion upon this ex-
pressive colloquialism.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Not much doubt about the
Duke of Cumberland being Queen Vic-
toria’s heir presumptive in 1837 (B.
26/2/’36). That, indeed, is the main
reason why she came into existence.
Cumberland’s elder brother, the Duke
of Kent, was routed out from a happy
though not royal alliance when George
and William both proved unlikely to
have any children recognisable in this
direction, and sent —most unwillingly, as
the Creevey diary disclosed long after —
to find a German princess and produce
an heir. Which he did, and then died.
Cumberland, though a good soldier, was
easily the worst of a none too reputable
batch of brothers; they refused even to
ride in a procession with him. It was
their firm conviction that England would
prefer a revolution to having the Duke
for its King, which started the Kent
question and altered all our modern
history. While Victoria was still un-
married, the House of Commons got so
far as a motion to exclude Cumberland
from the succession. But Hanover was
less particular, and —women being
barred there—that throne became his,
and thus passed away from Britain.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: Add okekolehao to the
various devastating brands of firewater
mentioned in the last half-dozen Bulle-
tins. Returning from Honolulu a few
months ago a friend managed to land
four quarts of the native moonshine and
invited us to sample it. We found it
a most palatable drink, with a kick like
a mule after the third nip. But its nasty
habit of recurring unsettled me. Next
morning, after a glass of iced water, I
found I was in a worse state than the
night before. For all that, oke. was the
purest drink obtainable during prohibi-
tion days, having a ready sale at two
dollars a gallon. It still holds its own
in Hawaii, where a bottle of real Scotch
costs five dollars.
* * * *
“Rouge-et-noir”: “Colonel Bung-
starter’s” contention that the straight-
shooting “bad men” of America were
almost invariably blondes, thus differ-
ing from the traditionally dark villain
of fiction and the stage (B. 25/3/’36), is
entirely borne out by a biography of
that bloodthirsty desperado “Billy the
Kid,” published a few years ago. The
author draws the same deduction, and
the list of names with which he sup-
ports it is much the same. Yet, curiously
enough, O. Henry, who has several
“Kids” in his stories, all with certain
marked resemblances to the juvenile
killer of New Mexico, always leaves the
impression that they were black-avised.
One is “the small dark man who never
smiles” ; another is swarthy enough to
be mistaken for a Spanish youth. Per-
haps this is because O. Henry was a
literary craftsman, not a historian, mainly
concerned with giving his readers the
types which would most readily appeal
to them.
* * * *
“Assassin”: “Centurion” tells us that
hundreds of British and Australian
cavalry horses were “sold into the vilest
slavery” in Egypt and elsewhere at the
close of the war (B. 11/3/’36), I think
that way of getting rid of them was the
exception. In Syria in 1919 hundreds
of good and fit horses were mercifully
destroyed by the A.I.F. I can spetvx with
some authority on this, because I was
handed the unenviable job of shooting
horses —I destroyed over 500 in the olive
grove between Tripoli and Zagarta. The
balance of the horses were handed to
the Indian regiments and the yeomanry.
THE NEW CAR.
First Week.
Dad’s mighty strict about the new sedan,
You’d think we’d never owned a car betore.
He’s touched her up with shammy till a man
Can see to shave, in every blessed door.
You ought to see him fuss!
Why, Kath and me, he hardly lets us drive
Without he reads the Riot Act at us
He reckons he will skin us both alive
If she as much as touches twenty-five.
Second Week.
Six times last week we polished that machine;
This week —ah, well, it seems a lot of toil
It’s not as if the coachwork isn’t clean,
And, after all, I keep her right for oil.
Dad’s still the martinet.
“You mustn’t race the engine while it’s
new . . .
Thq first five hundred miles” . . . and so on;
yet
Mum whispers that last night they simply
flew—
On one good stretch he hit up forty-two.
Third Week
She wants a wash, but what’s a bit of dust?
A man can get too earnest at that game.
The more she’s washed, the more she tends to
rust;
Dirty or not, she gets there just the same.
And, Jingo, won’t she go!
Pull! She makes Bobby’s tourer seem a
crock;
And here’s a little thing Dad doesn’t know —
I’d tell him if I thought he’d stand the
shock —
At sixty she’s as steady as a rock!
N.S.W.
ABIE.


X
is
%
V
4
16
20/
or
10/
9
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
PP E D
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERAT
POLITICAL POINTS
Naturally Customs Minister White
opened the long-delayed tariff debate for
the Government. He was followed by
Forde, though Curtin is titular leader of
the Opposition. Curtin was silent about
tariff matters for a week. Then he came
out with the declaration that he was
reviving “what was known 25 years ago
as the New Protection.” His New
Protection is, in effect, conditional pro-
tection, and his crowd is to impose all
the conditions.
Curtin’s New Protection was mislaid
somewhere when the Government tried
to get Parliamentary sanction for putting
Portland cement from Britain on the
free list. White asserted that lobbying
was going on and that there had been
“flagrant profiteering.” He furnished no
evidence, but Curtin’s party did not ask
for any. Instead, it voted in a body for
a duty of 6d. (formerly Is.) per hundred-
weight, proposed by ex-Minist'er Francis,
and, with nine Ministerialists joining
Francis, the amendment was carried in
a thin House. The defeat is doubly
awkward for the Government since it
agreed at Ottawa not to impose duties in
excess of Tariff Board recommendations.
Resolutions in favor of the reintroduc-
tion of national military training have
been passed at the Bathurst and Goul-
burn U.A.P. Conventions and the con-
ference of Associated Chambers of Com-
merce in Adelaide. Support for it has
even been voiced at the Melbourne
Trades Hall. But • votes are involved,
and Parkhill will resist it to the last
selection-ballot box.
It is getting on for four months since
Premier Forgan Smith left Brisbane “to
attend the international sugar conference
in London.” It is now admitted that
there is to be no international sugar con-
ference, but there may be sugar palavers
“limited to Britain and Australia.” Mean-
while, doubting taxpayers are assured
that Foggy, killing time on a golf course,
holed in one and “heavily tipped the
caddies.”
Blackburn, M.H.R., now a party of
one, protests that Federal Labor has no
foreign policy. That can never be said
of Lyons and co. Those great statesmen
have a foreign policy, and it can be
compressed into three words —“Yes, Mr.
Eden.”
Of the late General Kondylis it has
been written that “he was in turn a sup-
porter of rebellion, of revolution, of con-
stituted authority ; a Venizelist, an anti-
Cenizelist, a Republican, a moderate
Royalist and, finally, more Royalist than
the King.” Evidently a wild Hellenic
edition of our own General Pearce.
Out of the London naval conference
has come a treaty by virtue of which the
U.S.A., France and the British Common-
wealth agree to exchange information
about annual building programmes and
to limit tonnage and gun power of battle-
ships, aircraft-carriers and submarines.
Japan is no party to it, and Italy will
not sign while “sanctions” are in force.
Proceedings closed with a British-Ameri-
can agreement, set down in letters, in
which “the principle of parity” estab-
lished at Washington in 1921 is pre-
served, with the addition of the words
“There shall be no competitive building.”
It is much more important than the
treaty.
Getting 43Tp.c. of Country-party pre-
ferences, compared with 24 p.c. at the
general election, Denigan was elected in
Allandale (Vic.), beating Baird (U.A.P.)
by 322. He is Allandale’s first Labor
member, but against any other man but
the late Peacock Labor would have won
it years ago ; Creswick, Clunes and Beau-
fort would in normal times have given
the Labor man a long lead. At the
redistribution, bits of Ballarat and War-
renheip were added. The probabilities are
that the seat will never be wrested from
Denigan till the Yaps and the Cockies
bury the hatchet.
The result at Allandale moved Dun-
stan to declare that “the policy and
achievements of my Ministry have met
with the approval of the electors.”
Primary votes polled totalled 9626.
Dunstan’s man got 2733. Exit the Cocky
party, if such “approval” becomes
general.
Putting part of the overwhelming case
for a uniform divorce law, Maurice
Blackburn wound up by proposing that
the Government should “provide for a
Commonwealth matrimonial domicile.”
Young Holt supported him, but “the de-
bate was adjourned,” a Canberra com-
mentator says, “before any indication
had been given of the Government’s
policy in the matter.” The Government’s
“policy” could be written in invisible ink
on imperceptible paper.
MR. DAVIDSON OF THE 'WALES (Mar. 19): The Commonwealth Bank has indicated the
belief that recovery was proceeding at too fast a rate.
MR. LYONS (Mar. 24): It is hard to slow down the progress of recovery. It is going
ahead like a snowball.
HONEST JOE: “It’s a mystery hike to ME; but perhaps Davidson knows where
he’s going.”
Although Mr. Anthony Eden is
willing to send an Anglo-Italian army to
the Rhineland to police that region,
“sanctions” are still being applied to
Italy. According to Casey, the U.K. is
“losing more by their application than
any other country”; but Australia is
losing a considerable amount —just on a
million a year, the Italian Consul-
General calculates —as well as footing the
bill for keeping two cruisers in the Medi-
terranean or thereabouts. A sillier sacri-
fice of trade and revenue is not on
record.
“S. M. Herald” chides “Government
members” of the N.S.W. Assembly for
being “extremely lax in their attend-
ances,” reckoning the absentees at one-
third. They are not the only offenders,
nor is inattention to the duties for which
members get so much pay and so many
privileges confined to Macquarie-street,
Sydney. When Jennings, the member for
Watson, delivered a thoughtful speech on
the tariff, a quorum had to be called for
three times in about 20 minutes. After
the third occasion Jennings plaintively
mentioned that there were only two
Laborites in the House, and one of the
twain tartly retorted that there were no
Agrarians present. Yet Jennings was only
the seventh contributor to the debate, he
got up at 9.17 p.m. and sat down at 9.49,
and the House was supposed to be en-
gaged on its fourth day’s work after three
months’ holiday.
Landsborough, 51 miles north of Bris-
bane, where the Transport Commis-
sars have put in some of their most dras-
tic work, had total revenue of £1328 in
February, 1936, and of £1368 in February,
1935, when alleged competition was in full
blast. Eumundi, 25 miles north, earned
£1246 in February, 1936, and £1294 in
February, 1935. If, with all their powers
of ruinous penalties, seizure of vehicles
and imprisonment of carriers, the Com-
mission can’t do better than this, it
should import an instructor from Russia
to show it how a recalcitrant public
should be handled.
Another instalment of that fascinating
serial “How the Money Goes” reveals
that in four years “primary producers”
have received £15,177,391 from the
Commonwealth Treasury. Wheatgrowers
got £12,439,027 and bounties accounted
for £1,617,871. The £12,000,000 ear-
marked for “adjustment” of farmers’
debts is additional. In thousands of
hopeless cases it would have come
cheaper to give the beneficiaries £3OO or
£4OO apiece to get off the land.
Lyons, in a message to the N.S.W.
U.A.P. when it opened its new club-
house :
Our principles do not change, and we
must keep the ranks closed.
A good job the advice wasn’t—er—
retrospective.
The almost invariable reply to an
attempt to buy Commonwealth statutes
at Commonwealth offices in Sydney is
“Not in stock. Send to Canberra.
People are expected to obey the laws,
which are churned out at the rate of
400 or 500 a year, but they have to go
out of their way to learn what the laws
are.
Labor Lud Mayor Jones, addressing the
munitipal electors of Toowoomba, ad-
vised them to “keep in tune with Bris-
bane.” Local “Tories” nastily replied
that they didn’t like Brisbane’s tune be-
cause it would increase the local debt-per-
head from £lO 18s. Bd. to £74 Bs. 2d.,
and cost of administration from £4 6s.
per £lOO of rates to £9. Also, they’d
have to hawk 4 per cent, debentures
about the southern capitals at a loss of
£1 per £lOO, whereas in Toowoomba’s
present financial state they could get all
the loan money they wanted for 31 p.c. at
par. In fact, in their “Tory” way they
preferred to pay the piper and call the
tune themselves.
Lang’s unluckiest follower is Mark
Gosling. Member for Kogarah after the
reversion to single electorates, Gosling
lost the seat in 1932, and failed to regain
it in 1935. A motor-car smash in which
the other party was a former Mayor led
to his being cast in £319 10s. damages
and substantial costs. Now Gosling,
twice a Minister and a politician for 12
years, is off to England—at his own ex-
pense.
Minister Spooner at Goulburn:
The U.A.P. must stand four-square
against the peaceful penetration of social-
ism—against being socialised by stealth.
During the same week Commissioner
Maddocks “placed orders for 43 new
Government buses,” and Railway Com-
missioner Hartigan explained when a
Government restaurant at Wynyard
station would be open for business.
The buses will add perhaps 200 to the
staff of the Government Bus De-
partment—there was none when the
socialists were last in office —and the
restaurant, besides finding room for lots
more candidates for superannuation
benefits, will mean the shutters for
private cafes and tea-rooms whose
proprietors paid taxes. Railway restau-
rants pay no taxes, and their losses —
£44,393 for the seven years to June 30,
1935—are charged up to the public.
Speaking at Adelaide, the P.M. ad-
mitted that “our defences have fallen into
a parlous condition,” and that to place
them in a condition which is not par-
lous “may cost millions.” An ignoble
admission, but, so far from hanging his
head in shame, Lyons said “You will pay
those millions cheerfully.” There would
have been no occasion for the admission
or the injunction if the Lyons Govern-
ment had looked after its main job in-
stead of giving millions away to State
Governments, which have used part of
them for restoring the boom-time salaries
of Ministers, members and civil servants.
Sir Oswald Mosley and his Black-
shirts surged up again in London last
week and, guarded by 2700 policemen,
made a night of it at the Albert Hall.
A fantastic incident, seeing that Britain
is imposing a boycott on the country of
the Blackshirts, but not more fantastic
than the proposal, embodied in a solemn
British White Paper, that British-Italian
forces should be drafted into another
Rhineland army of occupation. During a
lull between the hooting and the shriek-
ing, Mosley was heard to say that “the
British Government should mind Britain’s
business instead of running round inter-
vening and jeopardising British lives.”
Millions of the King’s subjects who are
neither Fascists nor Communists are of
the same opinion.


THE FIRST OF APRIL.


r
k
TO
HI
GIFP
ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU MONEY
jugful Yt^i
on every
r
SHELL
SB4-C
PERSONAL ITEMS
Few old soldiers can claim the record
of W. K. Bryant, dead in Brisbane, where
he was one of the first free Queenslanders
born—in 1839, the year after convictism
was abolished. At 13 he went to sea in
the old Victory, which was then a receiv-
ing ship for the navy, and this ripened
him for the Crimean War, during which
he attended the bombardment of Sebasta-
pol. He returned to England in time to
be sent to India for the Mutiny, in which
he was in the relief march to Cawnpore
and the capture of Delhi. Then, with a
V.C. won in China, he had a shot or two
at the Maoris, retired from the navy, saw
some of the American Civil War, and
settled down in Brisbane in 1882.
Sydney R.A.S. has made the innova-
tion of importing a Scottish judge for
the beef Shorthorn section, and could
not have done better than picking
Moubray Alexander, who has just
arrived. He is a leading Perthshire
breeder, a familiar figure at the great
Scottish sales at which the represen-
tatives of other countries mainly buy
British cattle, and is thoroughly familiar
with the Argentine and its meat methods.
He has had business connections in
Buenos Aires for a quarter of a century.
Few Territorians are more deeply
rooted in Centralian soil than George Bal-
lingall, who was born in Adelaide in
April, 1864. A descendant of Jingling
Geordie Herriot, who founded Her-
riot’s College, Edinburgh, he has lived in
the N.T. continuously for 50 years, i He
made his first trip across the continent
in 1884, and followed it with several
further journeys, the last of which was
made in 1905. Coolgardie owed a lot
of its horseflesh to his efforts in its early
days.
Vice-Admiral Boyle Somerville, assas-
sinated in his native county of Cork by
zealots who believed him a British re-
cruiting agent, was a son of a lieut.-
colonel of the Buffs, and spent a good
deal of time in Australian waters on
hydrographic survey work. While here in
the ’nineties, he married a daughter of
George Wigram Allen, K.C.M.G., of
Toxteth Park, Sydney, and he has a
number of relatives in Australia among
the old legal Allen family and the
Boyces. Though hydrography was his
specialty, he was an able linguist, and
published dictionaries of some of the
New Hebrides and Solomon Island lan-
guages.
Sydney University Union has acquired
a replica of the portrait painted by John
Longstaff of Judge Backhouse, who was
one of the founders of the body in 1874.
The gift coincides with the sixtieth anni-
versary of the Judge’s call to the Bar.
He is still hale and hearty at 85, and
able to indulge in his hobbies of walk-
ing and yachting. His old-world figure
is a familiar sight in Sydney streets.
Oscar Asche, dead at 64, was born in
Geelong, went to school at Melbourne
Grammar, and took to the stage young.
His first appearance was at the Opera
Comique in Paris. Frank Benson
schooled him for eight years ; then Asche
caught the discerning eye of Beerbohm
Tree, and two years later was manager
of London Adelphi, leaving it in 1907
to take charge at His Majesty’s. After-
wards his world tours began. He shone
more as an actor than as a manager,
and as a deviser of spectacles more than
in either role. He will be best remem-
bered for a new magnificence introduced
to the musical stage with “Chu Chin
Chow,” which ran in London for five
years—l9l6-21. Asche was an ardent
cricket devotee, and never missed a Test
if he was within miles of one.
H.M.A.S. Canberra’s new captain, A.
G. B. Wilson, is 46 years old, and was
promoted captain while serving in the
royal yacht Victoria and Albert three
years ago. He has a D. 5.0., was men-
tioned in dispatches four times and is
a chevalier of the Legion of Honor. In
1931 he was senior naval officer on the
West African coast.
“Uramao”: Just died in Maoriland,
knight Francis Henry Dillon Bell, who
was regarded as a “hard-shell” Tory. If
he fought Labor tooth and nail, how-
ever, he also opposed much of the legis-
lation of his fellow “Tories.” Big Bill
Massey had much faith in Bell, who could
have had a seat on the Supreme Court
Bench if he had so desired.
Unk White, depicted by Scorfield setting
out with wife for Spain and S. America,
is one of the M.L. group of artists
who in post-war years have helped to
make The Bulletin picture pages. He is
an incurable romantic who belongs
rightly to the age of ruffles and rapiers.
“Don Quixote” ( UNK ) WHITE and family leave for Spain.
He began life as violinist in an orchestra
—why he left it is his own secret —
learned to draw without a master and is
accounted one of the world’s finest black-
and-white men. He took to fencing like
a hidalgo, and his riposte is as keen as
his humor. For months an air of revo-
lution has been lent to The Bulletin
office by ringing carambas (but no
mananas ) as the preparing venturer has
practised Spanish on the office boy or
the cat or the father of the chapel. He
made one trip abroad some years ago,
and acquired a new technique and a
digestion for horseflesh. And he hopes
to return to Australia after he has seen
a bullfight or so, fought a few duels
with Argentines and met Ernest Hem-
ingway.
Who can challenge Robert Graham
Carey, of Bairnsdale (Vic.), as oldest
modern commercial aviator in the
world? Sixty-three years old now, he
got his pilot’s license at Point Cook in
1916, when he was 43. Carey was the
first civil pilot to “graduate” from that
aviation school, and, establishing a base
of his own at Fisherman’s Bend, he
went on to pioneer night-flying and sky-
advertising (per ’plane). He also claims
to be the first Australian commercial
flier to form a company.
The name of Charles Collins, M.L.A.
for Bowen, is added to the long roll of
deaths which have depleted the Queens-
land Assembly since last election —
north, centre, Downs and Brisbane dis-
tricts all have lost a member each. C.C.
was one of the old school of Labor men,
and came into the House permanently with
T. J. Ryan in 1915 after an isolated term
as member for Burke. He wore a beard
which, to his intense chagrin, sometimes
got him confused with a neighboring
“Tory” member for Mirani, E. B.
Swayne, And he had a voice which was
the terror of his leaders because, when
Caucus was sitting in the huddled room
which it occupied before it took over the
Legislative Council Chamber, it used to
penetrate the walls. In temperament, he
resembled Keir Hardie, and, having no
flair for logrolling and the habit of say -
ing exactly what he thought, he did nol
get much preferment—only a chairman-
ship of the Public Works Commission.
“Theodore!” he shouted, when he was
told the Premier’s wishes about some-
thing, “is he member for Bowen?” He
came originally from Warwickshire
(Eng.), and worked for 25 years as a
Queensland miner before he became
organiser to the Australian Labor Fed-
eration.
Some April birthdays:
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth), Primate of
Australia, 66, and A. C. Davidson (Bank of
N.S.W.), 54, on Ist; Rabbi Freedman (Perth),
62, knight Walter Young (Adel.), 64, Speck
Treasurer Dwyer-Gray, 66, and veteran
journalist Fred Broomfield, 76, on 2nd; Dean
Aickin (Melb.), 67, and E. C. Riddle (Com-
monwealth Bank), 63, on 3rd; Vic. Chief Sec.
Brig. M. W. J. Bourchier, 55, Wing-Comman-
der Frank McNamara (first Aus. airman to win
V.C.), 42. and J. S. Rosevear, M.H.R. (Dailey),
44, on 4th; T. J. Collins, M.H.R. (Hume), 50,
on 6th; Brig.-Gen. Iven Mackay (Syd.), 54,
on 7th; artist Arthur Streeton, 69, on Bth;
former Prime Minister J. C. Watson, 69, R. M.
King, M.L.A. (ex-Min. for Educ., Q ), 67, and
C. A. Bernays (former Clerk of Parliament, Q.),
74, and John Stonham (former editor “Com-
monwealth Official Year-Book”), 66, on 9th;
N.S.W. Gov.-elect Admiral Sir David Ander-
son, 62, poet Bernard O’Dowd, 70,
McGlinn (Melb.), 67, and Freda Bage (Women’s
College, Q. Uni.), on 11th; Dr. Wm. Maloney,
M.H.R. (Melbourne), 82, and ex-S.A. Senator
Mick O’Halloran, 43, on 12th; Justice Douglas
(Q.), 53, and Tas. Gov. Ernest Clark, 72, on
13th; W. C. Hill, former M.H.R. for Echuca,
70, and Speck Hon. Min. Dr. F. J. Gaha, 42,
on 14th; Stanley Bruce, 53, Maj.-Gen. Gordon
Bennett (Syd.), 49, ex-Mayor Alfred Simpson
(Adel.), 61, and Q. Premier Forgan Smith, 49,
on 15th; Gen. Chauyel, 71, and Col. E. F.
Harrison, M.H.R. (Bendigo), 56, on 16th;
H. C. Brown (Federal Auditor-General), 62,
and author Vernon Knowles, 37, on 17th;
Wm. Dixson (founder of Dixson Gallery, Syd.),
66, and Archbishop Head (Melb.), 62, on
18th; W.A. Premier Collier, 63, and Tas.
Senator J. B. Hayes, 68, on 21st; Littleton
Groom, M.H.R. (Darling Downs), 69, Prof.
Gharteris (Syd.), 62, and Clifford Hay (N.S.W.
Premier’s Dept., Syd.), 58, on 22nd; Q’land
Senator Cooper, 45, knight Arthur Robinson
(Vic.), 64, Capt. F. J. Bayldon (Syd.), 64,
Prof. W. J. Dakin (Syd.), 53, and Judge
Macindoe (Vic.), 53, on 23rd; medico-knight
Maudsley (Melb.), 77, and Tas. Senator Grant,
58, on 25th; ex-Q’land Senator Drake, 86,
knight W. J. Sowden (late Adel. “Register”),
78, Col. White (Min. for Customs), 48, Mac-
Callum Smith, M.L.A. (W.A.), 68, H. J.
Stewart, M.A. (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 60, and
singer Florence Austral, on 26th; G. J. Cohen
(Syd.), 94, knight Henry Braddon (Syd.), 73,
W.A. Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell, 70, Prof. W. E.
Agar (Melb.), 54, Hewlett Ross (Melb.), 79,
and former Speck Premier Walter Lee, 62, on
27th; Justice Dixon (High Court), 50, on 28th;
knight Geo. Julius (Industrial Research
Council), 63, and Prof. E. G. Waterhouse
(Syd.), 55, on 29th; Justice Evatt (High Court),
42, and Capt. Edgar Johnston (Controller of
Civil Aviation), 40, on 30th.
The job of building up (as “Dean”)
the new Medical School at Brisbane Uni-
versity goes to Prof. H. J. Wilkinson,
who moves on from the Chair of
Anatomy at Adelaide. He took an Arts
degree at Adelaide in 1914 and, after an
interlude of teaching at both Brisbane and
Sydney Grammars, earned a Medical
degree in 1925 at Sydney, where he
became senior lecturer in his subject
before the Adelaide appointment.
Bill Oliver, now visiting Adelaide, is
one Australian who does not think opals
unlucky. Gassed and war-battered, he
came home in 1919 and chose Coober
Pedy field as a quiet spot in which to
end his days. Most of the intervening
16 years have been spent there. Bill has
a dugout which a g.s.o. would not have
scorned, and he has many things to re-
joice over—for instance, that the price
of water has gone down from £5 per 100
gallons to ss. since a Government bore
was put in. He is also finding enough
opal to make him one of the most pros-
perous gougers on the place, but his ex-
perience is long. It began when he set
out from Broken Hill, before he went to
France, with a bicycle on which he
pedalled 200 miles in two days, with a
penny to buy rations.
“El V.” on a coming visitor:
The Marquess of Hartington, Under-Secre-
tary for the Dominions, who is coming to
Australia, belongs to an extraordinary family.
He is heir to the Dukedom of Devonshire,
which dates from William and Mary and which
has never had the slightest connection with
Devonshire. When he succeeds his father, he
will be the owner of the finest collection of
seats owned in the peerage—the lovely Ghats-
worth in Derbyshire, through the parklands of
which hundreds of Australians have driven on
their way to view Dorothy Vernon’s Haddon
Hall, Hardwick Hall, Bolton Abbey in York-
shire, Compton Place, Eastbourne and Lis-
more Castle, Waterford in Ireland, as well as
an imposing town house at 2 Carlton-gardens.
It was a Duke of Devonshire who traditionally
dreamt that he was making a speech in the
House of Lords and woke to discover that he
was. The living duke and his son are
hard-working, unassuming people who have
given a lot of time to Dominions affairs —the
present duke was G.-G. of Canada, has held
several minor Cabinet offices, and finds enough
time in the intervals of managing his 186,000
acres and vast mineral interests to be a mayor
of cities and chancellor of universities, accord-
ing to family tradition. Lord Hartington, who
married a daughter of the Marquess of Salis-
bury, fought on Gallipoli and in France, was a
member of the Peace Delegation, and has been
M.P. for West Derbyshire since 1923.


OUR CAR
BE BUILT
M
|
..but
m
m
.
TOR
mm
m\
90
m
. \
X. '>*&*s - *\
mt- m
mm
if
mmm
imm
'V.
msms».(smss
' ;
mmmm
,
BE SURE...
FIT
Barnet Glass
x\
TYRES
The speedo creeps around—so, 60, 70 —it may be
an effortless job for your car. But —don’t do it on
worn-smooth tyres. They can’t hold the road—
they’re gripless, unsafe—ready to skid at any
minute. Don’t let them play you a trick like that—
Have them off your wheels and big, sturdy Barnet
Glass Checkskids in their place!
Checkskids will start you, speed you, stop you—
with a tenacious road-grip which defies slip or skid.
The unique Checkskid tread is built for to-day’s
faster speeds and harder braking—built to give
extra thousands of safe miles under these conditions.
Drop in and talk it over with the nearest Barnet
Glass dealer.
The New “Cheekskid”
with MORE RUBBER, DEEPER CUT
TREAD
JA
M 69 F.P.


f
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS. FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
■ m
mm
. ?
MOTHER cordial;
Sheet
ri metal
J STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
McPHERSONS Ply. LTD., Melbourne,, Adelaide,-Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 112,000 12 p.c. = 98,038 14,022 155.411
1926.. 121,010 14 „ „ 114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,016 14 „ „ 11.4,879 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ „ 114,379 16,809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ ~ 114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 104 „ „ 85,784 16,238 220,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ ~ 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 70,900 8 „ ~ 65,359 5,541 241,075
1933.. 73,798 8 „ „ 65,359 8,439 249,514
1934.. 75,314 9 ~ ~ 73,530 1,784 251,298
1935.. 87,880 10 „ „ 81,699 6,181 257,479
Most interesting recent development
has been a lift from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in
the interim distribution of the operating
co. (Carlton and United Breweries) on
its present (enlarged) paid capital. That
rate on this co.’s shareholding (928,295
shares) is equal to 11.3 p.c. on its own
capital. In addition, Carlton showed 3
p.c. on capital from rents, interest, etc.,
last year. Exes, were 1.5 p.c. on capital.
The position is made more attractive
by the fact that the operating co. doesn’t
hand on all its profit; Carlton’s share
of the amount retained in the term to
June, 1935, was equal to 1.4 p.c. on
capital.
There are half a dozen holding cos.
through which the public is interested in
G.U.B. Carlton is the chief from a
market point of view. C.U.B. supplies
Victoria with most of its beer, and has
strong connections in North Queensland
and Tasmania as well. As to the Vic-
torian market, beer consumption per
head fell from 12 gallons in 1928 to 73-
gallons in 1932. It had moved back to
9} gallons in 1934-35, and, with recovery
now more pronounced in the State (aided
somewhat by a revival in mining acti-
vity), it can be expected to lift still further.
The export trade is also better.
Carlton and its wholly-owned sub-
sidiary control 38 p.c. of C.U.B.’s capital:
C.U.B. (Shares. Book Value.
Carlton .. .. 600,000 ords. £400,000
54,305 prefs. 45,254
Victoria .. .. 251,250 ords. 167,500
22,740 prefs. 18,950
The pup is the Victoria Brewery, which,
in addition to its interest in C.U.8., has
£60,000 in brewery premises, £11,140 in
hotels and £5475 in debtors, cash, etc.
Carlton’s old brewery premises figured
at £90,000 at Dec. 31 ; other freeholds,
£107,922 (up £28,945) ; debtors, loans,
cash, etc., £240,240. Creditors were owed
£9859.
Here is a detailed view of income from
the lot over a period:
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Dec., Cos.’ Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1926.. £100,883 £27,821 £2366
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106,336 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
1931.. 67,073 24,564 599
1932.. 61,620 20,765 339
1933.. 61,620 20,742 1493
1934.. 63,120 22,113 180
1935.. 73,344 24,521 2455
Carlton’s gross income in 1935 was
£14,907 higher—increased divs. from
C.U.B. (further lifted since the close of
accounts) were principally responsible.
Exes. (£12,440) were up £1052. The net
result (£87,880) was £12,566 better at
10.7 p.c. on capital, as against 9.2 p.c.
last term. If C.U.B. maintains its div. at
10 p.c. this year, Carlton’s net earnings
for 1936 should be more than p.c, on
capital.
Last term the public co.’s div, was
lifted from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c., which left
£6lBl for reserves, apart from what
C.U.B. retained —visibly £36,668, the 32
p.c. share of the Carlton Co. being
£11,640.
Partly to avoid extra taxation imposed
after 1934, C.U.B. distributed 975,000
bonus shares—loo,ooo prefs. and 875,000
ords.—one for two, in December, 1934.
That lifted C.U.B.’s paid capital to
£2,925,000 in 300,000 prefs. (they carry
a cumulative 7 p.c. and advance with
the ords. beyond that rate) and 2,625,000
ords. Carlton’s position now is that, with
a holding of the face value of £928,295
as against a paid capital of £816,992, dis-
tributions by the operating co. represent
a higher rate on Carlton capital. For
instance, 10 p.c. on the C.U.B. holding
is equal to 11.3 p.c. on Carlton’s share
register.
At 535. 3d. Carlton scrip returns 3.7
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. If the rate
lifts to 12£ p.c. the yield would be
4.7 p.c.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
, — 1 Dividends N Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Prcf. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1920 .. 23,068 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 18,902 4,700 31,23')
1927 .. 40,127 8 15 „ 27,539 12,588 43,823
1928 .. 48,207 8 ~ 15- ~ 27,081 20,526 64,349
Share premiums, £15,767 .. .. 80,117
1929 .. 62,757 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,016 105,733
1930 ~ 55,568 8 „ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124,160
1931 .. 25,911 8 „ 10 „ 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 .. 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 .. 120,148
1934 .. 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 25,027 488 120,630
1935 . . 30,193 8 ~ 10 ~ „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Share premiums, £12.550 .. .. 144,358
1930 .. 34,270 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
For over a decade the history of this
well-handled drapery business has been
one of steady expansion and very satis-
factory earning power. Paid capital ad-
vanced from £88,309 in 1924 to £298,234
at the close of last accounts. The new
capital and a lot more money besides
have been used mainly to buy and extend
the freehold of the premises from which
the co. trades. At the close of last
accounts, fixed assets, etc. —the etcetera
includes an unspecified amount of in-
vestments —accounted for over 72 p.c. of
the balance-sheet total, which means
that a lively turnover has to be main-
tained to pay a 10 p.c. div. Over the
last half-dozen difficult years, the ords.
have averaged 9.5 p.c., as against 14.1
p.c. for the preceding half-dozen; it
suggests quick adjustment to altered trad-
ing conditions, which in turn reflects
shrewd buying and a tight hold upon
outgoings.
During the 12 months to the end of
February, gross earnings (£164,618) im-
proved £2379. Including £BOOO (down
£3000) set aside for the taxgatherer, exes.
(£130,342) were £1704 lighter. Thus the
net result sprang £4083, reaching £34,276,
or enough to pay the pref. div. (£800)
and show 13.2 p.c. on average ord. capi-
tal as against 12.1, 10.2, 10.1, 7.1, 10.3,
20.8 and 25.5 p.c. back to 1929. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and it looks like
remaining there —for the current term,
at any rate.
To finance alterations to premises, etc.,
50,224 new £1 ords. were issued at a
premium of ss. each shortly before the
close of last accounts ; there was £4262
still to come when the books were ruled
off. The premiums (£12,556) were added
to reserves:
1925. 1930. 1935. 1930.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £252,272 £252,272 £298,234
Mortgages . . 103,500 75,000 75,000
Overdraft . . 30,111 5,702
Sundry creditors 456 24,920 18,091 18,621
Freeholds, fit-
InvStments".: ] 7,292 1 S 50 > 080 4M - 888 420.131
Stocks .. 58,800 145,359 94,488 102,236
Book debts . . 23,078 23,284 14,082 15,530
Cash, etc. . . 14,754 86,952 20,511 42,324
The new capital, together with the year’s
surplus earnings, enabled £24,234 to be
clipped off the overdraft, £19,243 to be
added to the book value of fixed assets,
etc., £7748 to stocks, £1448 to book
debts and £21,813 to cash, etc. The
more or less liquid surplus (£60,707) was
£54,828 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Over the twelvemonth the ords. have
dropped from 435. 9d. to 41s. 6d. in the
market, owing mainly to the recent rise
in interest rates. At the lower figure the
return is 4.8 p.c, on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 30s. Id. in net tangibles.
The well-protected prefs. seldom appear
on the market.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net r~ Dividends x Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 9,714 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,683 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £3OO . . . . 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 „ 11,255 1568 5,873
1981.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil ■ Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights, £2l .. .. 4,306
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,591 9*p.c. Nil 6,525 2066 6,700
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £14,500 .. 7,794
Written off intangibles, £7l .. 7,723
1930.. 13,727 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2252 5,471
•Includes special payment of £725.
The co. owns half a dozen factories,
which turn out dairy utensils, builders’
requisites, wire fencing and agricultural
implements, etc. These goods, mostly
difficult lines, account for roughly one-
third of the co.’s entire turnover ; they
are sold through the co.’s own stores at
Flinders-lane (Melbourne), Fitzroy and
five country centres in Vic., and through
a subsidiary, W. Hart and Son, at Laun-
ceston, Tas. There was never much fat
in the trade. For the five generally flush
years to the close of accounts in 1930
the ords. got a steady 6 p.c. from profits
averaging 8.1 p.c. on ord. capital. Then
came the big break in the markets, and
the div. on £72,500 of 8 p.c. pref. capi-
tal had fallen £26,100 into arrears at the
end of Jan., 1935.
With the rise in the price of farm
products, the outlook brightened. Early
in the last term the slate was cleaned by
first paying a year’s div. (£5800) at the
old rate ; then the rate was reduced to
6 p.c. cumulative, leaving £15,225 still to
come, of which £14,500 was capitalised
by the issue of pref, scrip ; the other
£725 was paid in cash. The gift, how-
ever, makes 6 p.c. worth 7.2 p.c. on old
holdings, and the prefs. have the right
to advance with the ords. after the latter
have had 6 p.c. Paid capital thus became
£191,250 in 87,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 104,250 ords.
During the last term the business ex-
panded in all directions, thanks to the
continued rise in prices and activity
in the building trade. Gross earnings
(£69,155) were up £9423 ; exes. (£55,428)
took £4287 of the increase. The net
result was thus £5136 better at £13,727,
or sufficient to pay the pref, div. and
show 8.1 p.c. on ord. capital. The ords.,
which had gone without since 1930, got
into the picture again with 6 p.c., which
looks like being repeated during the
current term. The various factory plants
are reported to be in the best of con-
dition and working to capacity, while
a “substantial return” is expected from
the Tasmanian business.
The most pleasing features in balance-
sheet movements were a drop of £12,549
in the book value of stocks and a growth
of £3533 in debtors’ balances:
1924. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £176,750 £176,750 £191,250
Liabilities . . 15,741 73,190 64,903 58,024
Freeholds . . 25,933 43,312 43,000 45,212
Plant, etc. . . 13,313 25,293 22,123 23,997
Stocks. . . . 73,628 141,404 148,554 136,005
Book debts .. 24,302 30,197 25,761 29,294
Cash, etc. .. 8,324 1,460 825 2,159
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 16,000
Including stocks but not shares in other
cos., the more or less liquid surplus
(£109,434) was £BO3 lighter than at the
previous balance, owing to a net addi-
tion of £4086 to fixed assets.
The market sums up the risks by
pricing the ords. at par or thereabouts.
At 235. 6d. the prefs. return 5.1 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is £2 2s. Bd. prefs. and 18s. lid.
ords.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
r- Dividends —, Nominal
, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.e. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ &
1933.. 5,734 Nil Nil 5734 19,620
1934.. 10,982 9247 t Nil 1735 21,361
Preliminary exes., £2569 . . • • 78,792
Dec., £
19341. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.e. - 2749 2628 21,420
1935.. 15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7330 2675 24,095
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks (£15,934
at Dec. 31). f Includes arrears. 1 Six months.
Formerly Staley and Staley, Ltd., this
Victorian concern is reckoned to be Aus-
tralia’s biggest manufacturer of men’s
hose and the second-largest of women’s
stockings. There is an affiliation with
the American Holeproof organisation,
but the Australian public is largely in-
terested in the scrip, both pref. and
ord.
Sharemarket activity has been com-
paratively recent. Prefs. and ords. had
to go without divs. for a long spell, but
over the last two or three years there
has been great recovery. New grades of
hosiery have been marketed at more com-
petitive prices, the quality has been im-
proved, and men’s elastic-top socks sold
by the co. have had great popularity.
The result of these influences is seen in
the profit expansion in the introductory
table.
Divs, on the 8 p.c. A prefs. were re-
sumed in 1934, and the co.’s credit was
sufficiently good some months later to
raise £50,000 of B.pref. money at 6 p.c.
This made finances easier and assisted a
spread in activities.
The balancing day was changed from
June to December in 1934. For the six
months to the latter date the co. earned
£6904, equal to 11.7 p.c. p.a. on ord.
capital, after allowing for pref. divs.
A 6 p.c. ord. distribution was made.
Last term £15,199 was netted ; after
allowing for pref. requirements, that
was equal to 10.9 p.c. on ord. capital.
The div. was lifted to 8 p.c., and
£2675 was carried to nominal reserves —
now £24,095, subject to goodwill and
trade-marks (£15,934, up £7OOO last
term).
The lift in the goodwill item was due,
as to £5OOO, to the inclusion of that
sum previously headed “shares in other
cos.” The other £2OOO may have had
something to do with a corresponding
lift in the A pref. capital. The intan-
gible has obviously been of considerable
value recently.
The co., with others in the trade, is
able to undercut most imported lines;
keen competition in the local market has
made efficiency and narrow profit
margins necessities. But because cos.
such as these are doing moderately well
at present does not give grounds for
that mania of tariff-slashing seen lately.
Imports of ordinary hosiery requirements
are unnecessary so far as this country is
concerned.
Holeproof’s finances are comfortable:
1934. 1935.
Orel, capital £91,621 £91,621
Pref. capital 75,685 77,685
Liabilities .. . . . . 58,304 33,262
Freeholds, etc. . . .. . . 68,045 70,889
Plant and fittings . . . . 67,241 65,664
Shares in other cos. .. .. 5,000 16
Stocks 92,709 78,645
Debtors . . • • .. .. 8,718 4,931
Cash, etc. . . ■ ■ • ■ 659 521
Fixed assets total £136,553 ; much de-
pends on the continued efficiency of
plant. Stocks (£78,645) moved down
£14,064 last term, and that is a favor-
able sign. Debtors amount to only
£4931, indicating that the co. employs
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


m
t'A
1
r*
tn
mm
mm
i m
wm
■
a
am
' i *
■
wssm.
. ■ '■
m
■ %
■■ I ■■ m BmHI
ml-
The Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1893, the Australian Metropolitan is one
of the old-established Life Offices. It has 40 years of faithful service
to the public behind it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are ample for all
purposes —but, even so, these Funds are backed by substantial Reserves,
so that its financial position is impregnable.
At the end of 1935 the Assets were made up as follows: —
Government and Municipal Securities . . .. 50.75
Loans on Mortgage . . ... . . . . . . 18.56
Freehold Properties . . . . . . . . 16.99
Loans on Policies . . . . . . . . . . . 6.67
Cash and other Assets . . . . . . 7.03
Assurance Funds at 3I /1 2/’33, £1,366,713.
DIRECTORS: DR. A. MURRAY WILL; W. A. H. ALLWORTH; D. F. STEWART; J. A. HENDERSON; F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. A. HENDERSON. GENERAL SECRETARY: FREEMAN J. EATON.
ACTUARY: W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
BRANCH OFFlCES.— Victoria: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland: METROPOLITAN BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia: 22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.


A SUPvE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
m
m
im
mm
m
A.M.P. turns £4OO
into £1286
Let us call him Captain John Lacey. He
is feeling very pleased with himself these
days. A few investments built up out of
savings and an A.M.P. policy that has just
yielded him £1,286, have put him into what
he calls Easy Street. A few more years at sea
and he’ll be ashore for good, to watch his
grandson grow up.
There is a hint for thousands of fathers in Captain
Lacey’s policy. When he was a young officer of 23 his
father invested £4OO for him in a one-premium A.M.P.
policy for £719, to be paid to him, plus bonuses, on
reaching age 35, or to his beneficiaries should he die
earlier.
“It’s all I can do for you, John,” his father said, ‘but if we
put it in the A.M.P. it will give you something to retire on at
55.”
So good are A.M.P. bonuses that Captain Lacey, having
reached 55, drew £1,286 recently.
A hint to fathers with round sums to invest, did we say?
Isn’t it more than a hint? What better investment in the
world ?
The A.M.P. is the largest mutual life office in the Empire,
with assets of £100,000,000. It is as strong as the Nation
itself.
To fathers we say: Let us send an experienced adviser to talk
this matter over with you. Write or ’phone to-day. In the
interests of your son, don’t put it off!
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Assets: £100,000,000.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.I.A. A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A.
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
For Sale.
FOR SALE, Lode Tin Claim (“Ambrose
Lucky Last”), Kangaroo Hills. Shaft 70ft.,
drive 18ft. and drive 15ft. Produced 330 tons
ore, average per cent. tin. Estimates ore
valued £350 in sight. No walls located in
workings to date. Price £7OO.
A. AMBROSE,
C/o Byrne and Ahern,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
a distributing organisation or that it
does its business principally on a cash
basis.
Outside liabilities (£33,262, down
£25,042) are well covered by floating
assets.
Net tangibles amount to £2 ss. 4d.
for each £1 of pref. capital. The As at
295. return 5.5 p.c., and the Bs at 20s.
3d. 6 p.c. The ords., with net tangible
backing of 21s. 9d., are changing hands
at 21s. 6d., giving a yield of 7.4 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Underground at New Occidental
(N.S.W.) there is room for a good deal
of improvement. There have been
rumors that a new shaft may be neces-
sary—there has been difficulty in hand-
ling the required quantity of ore with
the present one. That heavy expenditure
might be avoided if double-decker cages
were used in the existing shaft—two
trucks in the one cage. Or, if enlarge-
ment and retimbering were decided on,
one section of the present shaft might
be stripped without putting the hauling-
way out of commission. The ore-body
itself looks very promising, but practical
miners, as reported at the annual meet-
ing, are scarce as hens’ teeth.
4c sk *
Reporting on Aloha Central’s property,
on the Tavua field, Fiji, Dr. Loftus Hills
says the area is worth prospecting. He
estimates there is 61,000 tons of B.4dwt.
ore, which can be mined by opencut to
a depth of 40ft., in the Sultan lode. A.
G. Campbell figures that the mine con-
tains 61,380 tons, averaging 7.86dwt.,
from which a profit of £47,150 could be
expected. He says prospects of finding
further deposits of payable ore are specu-
lative, but appear to be good. An option
over the property was recently aban-
doned by Canadian interests.
* * * *
Vic. Mines Department has made a
geological survey of the Buninyong dis-
trict, where Buninyong Rand Mines,
N.L., is opening up an ore-body. The
report hasn’t yet been published, but W.
Baragwanath, director of the survey, has
stated that “the operations of B.R. Mines,
N.L., after - unwatering an area aban-
doned for 50 years, seem to show that
parallel auriferous lines exist which the
earlier cos. overlooked. As gold is found
at the intersections of the diagonal
strikes with the main north and south
lines, this is important.” The co. was
formed in May, 1932, and has an issue
of 75,000 10s. shares paid to 6s. Crush-
ings of some thousands of tons of ore
have averaged about sdwt. The scrip
is at 10s. or thereabouts.
* * * *
Wattle Gully (Chewton, Vic.), which
has been driving from the 575 ft. level
in order to pick up the lode detected by
diamond drill 125 ft. away, continues to
put crushings through from shaft and
drive material. Recoveries have been
about 10dwt., and at present a load of
over 200 tons is going through the Gov-
ernment battery. From proceeds of for-
feited shares and gold won it is hoped
to buy a battery. There are 20,000 fully-
paids (£1) and 40,000 contribs. paid to
9s. 3d. The latter are at 17s. They have
been over 20s.
* * * *
Carshalton, Bendigo Mines’ affiliate,
has located groups of spurs on the 350 ft.
and 450 ft. levels, on the same line of
faulting. Though work to date has been
mainly developmental, there have been
several small crushings—l3B tons for
31oz. and 96 tons for 220 z. are the most
recent. A small profit is being shown.
On the 350 ft. level the ore has been
opened up for sloping for over 200 ft.,
and the outlook is promising.
* * * *
Morning Star’s latest crushing at the
Wood’s Point mine was 161 tons for
1900 z., which is getting back to former
values. The mine is well thought of,
in Vic. and elsewhere, but dry weather is
still a handicap. There are 200,000 4s.
contribs. paid to Is. 3d. and 200,000
fully-paids. The contribs. were at 3s. 2d.
at the week-end. First div. (6d.) was
paid (contribs. only) on March 25,
* * * *
Paringa Mining and Exploration has
met with encouraging results on its Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) property. Here the co.
did 6026 ft. of diamond-drilling and
3987 ft. of new development work last
year. Boring disclosed five lodes contain-
ing ore-shoots from l|ft. to 29ft. wide ;
core assays ranged from 9dwt. to
173.5dwt. per ton. There are zones up
to 25ft. wide, averaging s.7dwt. per ton.
The main lode has been proved for the
full length of the property (1700 ft,), and
is 50ft. wide in places. Bulk test crush-
ings of 1658 tons from the 200 ft., 300 ft.
and 400 ft. levels averaged 9dwt. 19gr.
Plans for a 5000-ton-a-month treatment
plant are being prepared. There is suffi-
cient ore in sight to keep the mill going
for 12 months.
* * * *
Marvel Loch (W.A.) reports that its
plant, which began to treat pay-ore on
March 11, is running smoothly, though
minor adjustments, chiefly in the grind-
ing section,. are necessary. Owing to
wide stripping, the head value of the feed
going through is about sdwt., of which
2dwt. is being caught over the strakes.
A clean-up of the cyanide plant will be
made at the end of April, The May
figures should be a more reliable guide
as to what may be expected. Plant capa-
city is about 4500 tons of oxidised ore
per month. There is over 250,000 tons
of ore measured up.
* * * *
Turn of the Tide (Reedys), a few miles
from Triton (W.A.), expects to commence
operations on its 270-acre property within
the next few weeks. The shaft has been
sunk to 200 ft., intersecting Boz, values,
but the show generally is low-grade. On
a basis of 300 tons a day and a Idwt. re-
covery, a profit of 4s. a ton is spoken of.
Two Huntingdon mills form the plant.
The management doesn’t think the esti-
mate over-optimistic. The co. has an
issued capital of £BOOO, and is said to
have turned down an offer of purchase
by an English co.
Western- Mining Corp. has completed
its campaign on the
Great Fingat, Day Dawn (W.A.). Bores
1 to 3 showed the lode to have a true
width of from 35, inches to 71 inches,
assaying from 6.ldwt. to Bdwt. On this
field the shoots exist in a series of more
or less parallel quartz reefs which cross
a coarse-grained dolerite dyke.
**■ * *
At Yellowdine (.W.A.) good progress is
being made in erecting the power plant
and a 20-head stamp mill, though it will
be a few months before ore treatment
begins. Ore reserves exceed 130,000 tons,
assaying l|oz., which gives dividend pros-
pects a rosy look, provided everything
goes smoothly.
* * * * /■
At Kundip, on Westralia’s south-west
field, a new boiler has been landed for
the Beryl mine, one of the De Bernales
group, and the Southern Progress Co.
has installed a metallurgist on the Floater
mine to reorganise the sands-treatment
plant. Rich floaters have been located on
the Maori Chief.
* * * ♦
At the old Paddington Consols (W.A.),
now known as the Lochinvar, one of
the Boulder Mining and Finance group,
a borehole from the surface has located
gold-bearing formation 150 ft. wide,
with several lodes assaying from 7dwt.
to 17dwt.” Some time ago three experts
who reported on the show stated that
favorable goldmining opportunities were
indicated ; other reports mentioned an
Bft. reef, carrying payable values at the
200 ft. level.
* * * *
Pumping at Edna May Amalgamated
(W.A.) is now reported to be proceeding
satisfactorily, so it shouldn’t be "long
before an examination can be made of
the old waterlogged workings. It will
be some months, however, before the co.
can hope to reach the producing stage.
* * * *
At Wiluna Ajax, which is drilling at
Wiluna (W.A.), , a sample of mineralised
ore taken from three small sections of a
core at an incline depth of 345 ft. to
403 ft. bulked Idwt. 15gr. a ton. There
was no trace of arsenic, but the assay is
not over-encouraging.
* * * *
First Hit, Menzies (W.A.), has handed
the vendors £42,500, leaving £7500 to be
paid out of crushing proceeds. A new
mill is in course of erection, and share-
holders are promised something before
long. , -
* * ♦ ♦
Timoni, formed in Melbourne in 1934
to dig for gold in an old mine at Mt.
Ida (W.A.), has been wound up. Profits
at the time of flotation were estimated at
£20,000 per annum.
* * * *
Herman Mandelstam, who arrived in
Perth from London the other day, states
that Tindals, at Coolgardie, and Edju-
dina, at Edjudina, are to be worked in
a big way. Each is to be diamond-drilled
and opened up by a series of shafts, cross-
cuts and drives, and, if results come up
to expectations, large reduction plants
are to be installed. He will presently be
joined by Walter Broadbridge, one of the
early managers of Sons of Gwalia, and
now on the boards of Tindals, Edjudina
and Boulder Perseverance.
* * * *
The Westralian Government has de-
cided to give Greenbushes, the State's
one remaining tin-producer, a helping
hand. The Minister of Mines has pro-
mised to have the field bored for deep
alluvial, and working parties are being
assisted. At one time monthly produc-
tion from the field was valued at tens
of thousands of pounds, but little tin is
being recovered now.-
♦ $
Last year Puket Tin Dredging, Siam,
in which Waihi Investments and Explora-
tion holds a half-interest, recovered 408
tons t.o. for a mine profit of approxi-
mately £30,000,
THE HOYT BOOK ON THE LINED BEARING
(■sth edition) is gratis as previously. Enclose 3d.
for postage. Ask for our house magazine “THE
NOTCHED INGOT/’ HOYT’S -METALS 49
HARDWARE STREET, MELBOURNE.—Advt
* * * *
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.’
♦ i> • *
DAVIES ■ & - COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B.' Davies.
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
♦ * * *
METALS. —If you want, to sell Ores, Metals, Strap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
I.EMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing For®#- Enginec S Bond S f pet, Syd"'"- —Advt.
* * * ♦
FERH,/DOR (Ami-corrosive) PAINT- is used on
all Railway Bridges' in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.


<§>«
ho wouldn't
accept the
verdict of
this jury ?
PS
Mfil
- N '
v/
.
€
■
K i
4\
® mm
■m
m
m
i—
i|’<;l '•••
- ; i 5 ' ' S
B
WMMsmm
V -
:
mm
t . Jit
' . ,- i * ' . ;
r W - x
T ' V
« ' * <aii
“ ■
/
m
■
■
*
%
■
—a jury which, composed of discerning people
whose good fortune it is to enjoy the best things
of life, finds "Ardath De-Luxe" to be ......
apertor
Mg
mam
*
•>
Smart Flat Tins:
10, 9d.; 20, 1/6.
Also Flat 50's, Tins of 100
and Round Airtight 50’s.
100 pjer cent. Pure
Virginia Tobacco.
to Your Nerves - - - Kind to Your Throat”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Captain Pintle”: I intend shortly to
place on the market the first really safe
horse-drawn vehicle. Instead of
having the animal away out
from the bows, it will be com-
fortably located underneath, out
of the weather. All weight will
be taken by the four wheels,
fitted with good brakes. In
addition to the usual collar and
breeching, the steed will wear a
stout bellyband, ending in falls
led round a winch barrel run-
ning fore and aft, and worked
by a winch at the driver’s seat.
In place of a whip, a paddle
located over the creature’s
stern will be operated by a lead
from a pedal at the coxswain’s
foot. The reins will be led
through snatchblocks to a small
steering wheel on the dashboard,
with supplementary tiller steer-
ing of the front wheels for
emergency. The usual anchor
and chain will be provided in
case of brake failure on hills.
When the animal tries to fall
down, rear, run back or bolt the
helmsman simply winds him clear of the
road by the winch until he returns to
sanity. The back is open for kicking
through if he wishes.
* * * *
“Timothy Tywire”: The big green frog
is a champ, at defying the law of gravity.
One of the tribe parked himself eight
feet up from the floor on the outer wall
of our n.-w. Q. homestead, remaining
motionless throughout the day, anchored
by the powerful suction of his feet. To-
ward sundown he would wake up, expand
himself a few times and begin a cautious
descent, dropping the last few feet to hit
the floor with an alarming “plop.” He
would climb back to his possie just
before daylight each morning, presum-
ably after a night’s hunting ; and he kept
this performance up for several days.
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: The Afghans’ aversion to
eating unblessed meat extends beyond
the confines of the carcass itself. They
always reserve special killing knives, and
will not cook other than blessed food in
their ovens. While camped near some
Afghan cameliers in Carnarvon (W.A.),
I sought the loan of one of their many
idle camp-ovens to roast some meat.
Their indignation was more than voluble,
and some of their expressions couldn’t
have been too pious. Strangely enough,
for weeks afterwards until I left, they
regularly sent me freshly-cooked mutton
and kept up an unlimited supply of
bananas and watermelons.
# $ $ ' .a|e
“E.M.8.”: Can’t agree with “Homo’s”
condemnation of the island natives’ bush-
manship (B. 12/2/’36), and I spent 20
years in Papua and New G uinea on out-
stations and patrols. Provided the Euro-
pean does not interfere (often he desires
the direct route according to his com-
pass, which Brown Brother knows is im-
practicable owing to the nature of coun-
try) 8.8. will find his way even when out
of his tribal territory. Strangely enough,
although the majority of salt-water
natives are excellent sailors, on one occa-
sion when travelling by whaleboat at
night my crew lost all idea of direction
in a rainstorm, and it was only the com-
pass that saved the situation.
* * * *
“Jerrara”: The recent finding of a
human skeleton at Bulli (N.S.W.), esti-
mated to have lain in the bush for 25
years, recalls that a few years ago some-
one uprooted human bones on the shores
of Lake Illawarra. A coronial inquiry
was held. Shortly afterwards more bones
were found near by, and a further inquiry
was held. The place was an aboriginal
burial-ground, and skeletons continued
to come to light, but the police were
obliged to ask for an inquiry each time.
It got that way that anyone seen
approaching the police station with
a suspicious-looking bag slung over his
shoulder was advised by the harassed
cops that if they were bones the finder
could transport them to hell.
* * * *
“Pisces”: I’ve seen sharks hacked
about and liberated ; when turned loose
they’ve swum about apparently without
knowing anything was wrong with ’em.
I’ve seen a young fellow, up to a couple
of feet in length, which had its interior
completely removed and a flap taken
from its flank as big as the palm of a
man’s hand. That thing, when slung
back into the sea, moved as if it had a
“ C'day! Doin' a bit o' fencin'?"
“ NaW — prospectin'!"
stomach-ache, but it swam about and
nosed things which it thought might be
good to eat. Those tales of fellows
knifing sharks under water may be taken
with a lump of rocksalt; it is virtually
an impossibility. A hearty bash on the
snout is the only thing that will make a
“Noah’s Ark” turn its tail up —it puts a
marcel wave in its backbone, which fin-
ishes at the tip of the nose.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Bullant Bill’s” rabbits that
dig out papers (B. 12/2/’36) are an un-
usual and hitherto unheard-of breed.
Contractor Fred Chinnery, who cleared
the cottontails from several big stations
on the Southern Tablelands (N.S.W.),
worked entirely on the theory that rabbits
will never pass paper in their burrows.
His plan was to fill the mouths of every
burrow in the warren except one with
old papers. In the open one he set his
long-spouted wire-netting cage. The bun-
nies would face the wire-netting, but
never the paper, and in a few days the
warren would be unoccupied.
I * * * *
“Gamma”: While snake yarns grow
taller and fewer laborers use the
wrigglers as bowyangs, there are a few
genuine close shaves. A red-bellied black
went up with the last sheaf of hay aboard
the dray. The boss, who usually rides
on the load, ordered it all off again, but
a minute search failed to locate Joe.
Later, when we were negotiating a short,
steep pinch, and I reached for the brake,
that ophidian was curled neatly round
the handle of it, blissfully slumbering,
its head within a foot of my arm.
“Tripod”: Those who accuse Binghi
of improvidence should visit the Bunya
Mountains near Dal by (Q.). Here, on
the scene of the great triennial bunya-
nut feasts, the biggest tribal event in
the lives of the old-time warriors, every
tree has toeholds cut from bottom to top,
while the largest trees have vines grow-
ing around them that twist loosely from
the ground to the topmost branches.
Those vines were planted by the abos. to
assist them in climbing the trees.
* * * *
“Silen”: In a little bush cemetery out
from Bathurst (N.S.W.), a gravedigger
found a few specks of gold while digging
out the regulation six feet, and while
waiting for the funeral to arrive did a
bit more prospecting. Finding his pick-
ings lucrative, he did not notice the arri-
val of the old sexton, who surveyed the
side cavities with horror. “’Ere, who
told’ y’ t’ dig a bleeding vault?” When
the ancient saw the specks in the tobacco-
tin he swore he’d swing the “banjo” for
the next customer himself, gout and 80-
odd years notwithstanding.
Jjc * * *
“Drysdale”: The bushman’s eyes (B.
11 /’3 / ’36) are at least in merciful dark-
ness for nearly half his life. As a night
worker I have found that electric light
leaves eyes sore and tired, and daytime
sleep gives little relief from light. Still,
the girl friend will doubt my motives
when I snap off the taxi switch.
“Pash”: Mention of passion-fruit (B.
11/3/’36) reminds me of the answer re-
turned by a sedate maiden lady in a recent
census. She lived by growing bananas
and passion-fruit, so she filled in her
occupation as “bananas and passion.”
But, seriously, how many Australians
know that this fruit is named from the
flower which bears a fancied resem-
blance to the instruments of Christ’s
passion?
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: One morning certain
signs told us the station boss was liverish,
so we were out of sight. But the new
wood-and-water joey didn’t know the
signs. He had brought a tank of water
on a dray from the well down the gully.
The method of emptying the dray-tank
into the ground tank was by using a 10ft.
length of inch pipe as a siphon. The
new hand was standing by the tank, eye-
ing the pipe in some doubt, when the
boss bore down on him. “Huh!” he
sneered, “another stupid cow. Can’t y’
use y’ head, y’ blanky idiot? Don’t y’
know what a siphon is? Here, gimme
the thing an’ I’ll show y’!” “But”
began the joey. “But nothing,” snapped
the boss. “Watch! ” He piit the bent
end into the water on the dray,
applied the other end to his mouth and
sucked. He bit the large grey spider he
ingurgitated in half, frantically spat it
out and, as he clung to a post trying to
check his revolting stomach, the joey said,
unemotionally, “I was wonderin’ whether
t’ poke it with a bit o’ wire or try
blowin’ it out. I never would be game
to suck it out, mister! ”
“Peel Island”: What do they call a
“monstrous” stingray in Westraha (B.
11/3/’36)? In Moreton Bay (Q.) we get
them from 10 to 15 feet across. If
“Spud” can produce a Westralian seal to
toss one like that “clean out of the
water,” as he says happened off Rottnest
Island, he can pick up bags of brass from
backers of the Queensland ’rays.
* * * *
“A.N.S.”; How much does a dog
know? When I sharpen the knives mine
round up the killers, and when I saddle
up and ride out the front gate they
bound away and are waiting at the mail-
box when I arrive. By the time Ive
poured boiling water in Liz at 5 a.m.
they are in the back seat yapping to go.
If I try to crank her up without the hot
water they never budge. They know
darned well it won’t start.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: “Another Golden
Miler” sure springs a new one when he
tells of the Wiluna men getting a bonus
for every pound of fracteur that they
pick off the conveyor belts (B. 26 / 2/’36).
In the days when I snatched a crust
feeding a cracker on the belt none of
the conveyor tenders got any bonus for
gathering “dinny,” and there was almost
as much explosive wasted and thrown
about among the various mines as would
keep the Wiluna mine going. Nor did
we bother about the stuff going through
the cracker. But why doesn’t it go off
when the big stones thunder with an Bft.
to 10ft. drop into the big steel skips?
Plenty of concussion there to send it
off. Our chief worry with the cracker
was the fear of a stray hammerhead get-
ting in along with the dirt —that would
bust things up properly. Incidentally,
I’ve been in an underground magazine
in the old days of “everyone serve him-
self” and have seen detonators lying
among the loose rubble just like gravel,
careless cows having dropped a boxful
and been too tired to gather them up.
Those were the days when we pinched
the caps on to the fuse with our teeth.
“Shrink Slope”: “G.M.” (B. 4/12/35)
does not appear to know that a spark will
not explode fracteur. The detonator con-
tains mercury fulminate, a highly-con-
centrated explosive. I have known of
many cases of loss of sight and fingers
whilst inserting the fuse in the cap. When
the fuse burns down to the fulminate in
the detonator the explosion sends off the
fracteur. This proves conclusively that
a knock is the only means of exploding
the fracteur when the hole is loaded.
Admittedly, overheating in an oven is
likely to explode the stuff, but to sug-
gest that a spark from a steel drill will
send the fracteur off is absurd. None
but the rawest newchum would use a
drill to tamp a hole when tamping sticks
are provided. The premature explosion
whilst tamping is caused by ramming
the primer too hard and exploding
the detonator. And if “G.M.” put
a plug of gelignite on an anvil and
belted it with a sledge-hammer,
he’d have the whole place to
himself.
v
“Doubting Donald”: On the morning
the duck season opened at Deniliquin
(N.S.W.) a shooter using an old muzzle-
loader was knocked back 30 yards by the
recoil. He lighted on a rabbit, which he
promptly grabbed by the ears. At that
moment his companions bellowed out
to him that he had brought down four
black duck. A search for the ramrod,
which he had forgotten to extract, re-
vealed that it had speared a 121 b. Murray
cod and impaled it to the root of a snag.
This is vouched for by the sportsman
himself.
tj! * * *
“Laetitia”: Binghi is nothing if not re-
sourceful, but his native initiative is
sometimes perverted. A bibulous cap-
tain of a ketch in a northern pearling
port wended his uncertain way along the
wharf, and, failing to negotiate the
gap between the jetty and the lugger,
hurtled into the shark-infested Pacific.
He was hauled out by two “boys” from
his crew who had anticipated that he
would take water and were waiting in the
ditch. The idea of intervening in time
to prevent the immersion did not occur
to the abo. mentality.
* * * *
“Wanderer”: Binghi is not the only
one to use his ears for carrying things (B.
19/2/’36). The women of the Sulu
Islands, between Borneo and the Philip-
pines, have a better idea: they hang
bamboo tubes, about six inches in
length, from their ears; one end is
sealed and the other has a cap. These
act as repositories for beads and other
personal things of the ladies. The weight
of the tubes gradually distends the lobes,
which in many old women nearly touch
the shoulders.
THE BUSHMAN’S REMEDY.
There’s a universal remedy that every bushman
knows;
You’ll find it in his saddle-bags no matter
where he goes.
Whether in station homestead or the hatter’s
humpy mean,
It seldom fails, whatever ails —a drop o’
kerosene!
They use it as a liniment, and claim it as the
best
To check a cold that’s imminent or rub a
bronchial chest.
A handy thing for saddle-galls the stuff has
always been,
The dope to deal with greasy heel —a drop o’
kerosene.
A spot of it on sugar will alleviate the croup;
It cures the chookies readily of scaly legs and
roop.
It kills the bots’ eggs on a horse and leaves
him free and clean;
It’s just as quick to “draw” a tick —a drop o’
kerosene!
And when Dave goes a-courting and his hair
must look its best,
What gives that sleek and groomed effect? The
truth must be confessed:
A pilfered drop of sister’s scent, a smear of
vaseline,
Are splendid when they’re blended with a drop
o’ kerosene.
And while Australia breeds the men to battle
with the drought,
To curb the pests, survive the floods and beat
the bushfires out,
To face the seasons cheerfully—the fat years
and the lean—
Their remedy will always be —a drop o’
kerosene!
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


“Malua”: Any Aboliar know how
much electricity it takes to make a snake
throw a seven? In N.Q. Joe has an
annoying habit of taking his siesta in the
telephone cable distribution boxes. The
only damage he did in the days of the
magneto system round Cairns was to
scare blazes out of the linesman who
ties himself to the pole before inspect-
ing the box. But with the advent of the
automatic system he became a pest.
Occasionally all line switches terminating
on some special cable are found racing
uncontrolled for no apparent cause.
Almost invariably the faultman at cable
head finds a snake. As the system there
takes 48 volts to operate, and during dial-
ling the voltage sometimes flashes up to
800, the wrigglers seem to take it merely
as a muscle exerciser. Frogs also seem
to thrive on “juice.” They make a day-
time gossip-room of every second cable-
box at certain times of the year in the
tropics, and because of the excessive
moisture from their bodies cause innu-
merable troubles on any telephone sys-
tem. Even on the old “maggie” phones,
if the day is bracing enough, a subscriber
will generate up to 80 volts with the
handle.
* * * *
“Germain”: The newchum cleric was
advised, when leaving Coominya (Bris-
bane Valley, Q.), to keep Mt. Hallon on
his left in order to reach Esk. This he
faithfully observed, duly arriving back in
Coominya by devious roads round the
mountain.
* * * *
“J.M.”: No need to go into the wilds
of New Guinea to find the fish, described
by Jack Hides, that shoots its prey.
A small fish that disports in the upper
waters of the Daintree River (N.Q.)
also possesses the ability to trap insects
which alight on leaves overhanging its
haunts. Swimming to within a couple
of feet of its quarry, the finny sharp-
shooter releases a stream of water. That
aquatic popgun gets a bull’s-eye every
time.
“ ‘Hot she says. ‘You ought to be bondin’ over a stove all day like
me, then you could say it was hot!' ”
Tests recently made by an
enthusiastic motorist prove there is not
much difference in the speeds of the emu
and ’roo. Both can cover about 35
m.p.h. for short distances, and can main-
tain a steady pace of 25-30 miles for
two or three hours. The ’roo, however,
has the better staying power. Even the
youngsters, a month or two depouched,
can average a steady 26 miles an hour.
* * * *
“Bill R.”; The mistaken idea “Gryllus”
advances when he says (B. 26/2/’36)
that the serious diminution of river
water-rats is due to a disease has been
put forward to account for the disappear-
ance of native bears, rock-wallabies and
possums from the landscape. The
shortage is due to the fur-hunter’s gun
that started booming in Australia when
a Canadian prohibitory law shut off the
fur trade in that country in 1884. In
recent years water-rat has become one
of the most fancied furs on the Aus-
tralian market.
«r * * *
“Rindy”: Can any Abo. geographical
authority settle the exact location of the
area known loosely as “The Black Soil
Plains”? Lambert’s picture shows the
nature of the country well enough, but
where do they begin and end?
* * * *
“Bush Parson”: Must disagree with
“Old-timer.”, Some bush words are as
healthy and strong as ever. “Mad Mick”
and “banjo” are terms still in use in most
parts of N.S.W.; they were extensively
used by the A.I.F. The town in which
I live is almost wholly inhabited by rural
workers who are employed by the neigh-
boring station, and have been all their
lives. When I emerged with a briar facial
decoration, the first words of greeting
were “Have you a license?” “Is the
safety latch on?” The pipe is invariably
spoken of as “the gun.” Perhaps our 450
miles from Sydney protect us from the
ten-gallon and check shirts, but the usual
clobber here is as it has always been:
the two-seasons-old felt or Is. straw.
“Ellenvale”: Let me reassure “Old-
timer” (B. 4/3/’36). The modern bush-
man, even though he wears a check
shirt and sombrero, knows what it
means to wield a “Douglas” in ironbark.
As for Yankee slang, if “0.-t.” cares to
don his cabbage-tree and moleskins, I’ll
take him up to the ranges where some
of the boys are doing a trifle of log-
hauling, After listening to some of these
sombreroed ox-conductors addressing an
awkward log or baulking bullock, he will
realise that the Australian language still
has a piquancy which owes nothing to
the influence of the talkies.
* * * *
“K.H.8.”: Mick’s disappearing dental
plate (B. 4/3/’36) is a kind I’ve never
made. These useful spare parts are made
from materials which need a much
higher temperature than boiling water
(212 deg. F.) to render them even slightly
fluid. The most damage boiling water
could do would be to warp the plate.
Still it is well to warn owners of man-
made chewing apparatus to avoid using
hot water for cleansing purposes, as the
plate will stand almost any powerful
antiseptic or germicide for sterilising
purposes.
THE CLOWN: “Hello, that's a new one!"
“Cudgerie”: Paddy’s pastime of spear-
ing rats with a hatpin (B. 1/1 /’36) was
tame compared with that of an old-time
police sergeant of my acquaintance. Dur-
ing a plague of rats he used to sit at his
table and pot at the rodents on rafters
and floor with his service revolver. His
dog used to carry out the corpses.
Several years afterwards an English visi-
tor to the township, on observing the
fretwork in the walls, asked if the place
had ever been held up by the Kelly gang.
* * *
“Nightcali”: Our two cats, both small,
gave our mongrel dog, three times the
size, an awful life. If he approached
the verandah he was severely slapped,
and when coming to the dairy for his
daily allowance of milk he always made
a wide circuit round the two cats. One
morning, however, his patience became
exhausted, and he took each cat in turn
by the scruff of the neck and shook
it. With bristles out like brooms
and growling ferociously at the insult,
the two felines fought back. We stopped
the fight, but the dog goes in peace now.
They respect him.
* * *
“Blue Flier”: “Bufo’s” bushman who
swallowed the tree-snake out of the
waterbag (B. 12/2/’36) would have suf-
fered little more than indigestion, even
if it had gone right down. When a snake
fights with another wriggler, or with a
go., the loser is seldom dead when it
commences to be a meal. I saw a fowl
swallow an Sin. grass-snake that was
very much alive, and expected a lively
time for the hen. But with a couple of
gulps old Speckly put the wriggler out of
sight, and went on her way rejoicing.
Evidently live snakes do less damage
when swallowed than the brand that
comes out of a bottle.
* * * *
“Squalus”: As to sharks and their
table manners (B. 11/3/’36). Though
writer has caught hundreds he has only
seen two actually absorbing nourishment.
Both took their meal, in each case float-
ing on the surface, without indulging in
turning over or any other acrobatics. The
first case was in Port Moresby harbor
early one morning. The cook of the
Merrie England had killed a sheep and
thrown the innards over. As these floated
on the crystal-clear water two enormous
sharks came nosing round it. At last one
screwed up his courage, made a head-on
rush which brought the front half of
him right out of the water, and scoffed
the breakfast. The second instance
occurred off the mouth of the Gira River
in n.-e. Papua. Writer was in a large
native outrigger canoe which was so
loaded that it was dangerous to shift on
the platform. A pair of sea-snakes twined
together came to the surface just beside
the outrigger. As they did another
outsize in sharks rose from the
depths and took them in. He was head-
ing straight at us, and his enormous
gape with its rows of teeth as he swal-
lowed the snakes was a shuddersome
thing to see. His meal done —it took a
fraction of a second that seemed an
eternity—he quietly slipped under the
canoe, his great nose grazing the out-
rigger as he did so.
* « * *
“Country Sawbones”: At the risk of
a violent death at the hands of Aboliars,
I suggest that the Education Department
declare a public holiday in all schools
to allow children to hear the burial ser-
vice read over the following bush
legends:—
1. There is a repetition of snakebite
symptoms a year after being bitten.
2. Liability to Bell’s paralysis (twisting
of one side of the face), resulting from
sleeping in the moonlight with head un-
covered.
3. A strychnine-poisoned dog can be
cured by cutting off an ear or the tail.
4. Necessity of wearing a piece of red
flannel round the face after a tooth extrac-
tion to prevent getting a cold in it.
5. That fish caught on a moonlit night
will be poisonous if eaten the next morn-
ing.
6. If bitten by a snake when the moon
is full the patient will not be out of
danger until the moon sinks.
* * * *
“Solentes”: Just inform “Kariah” (B.
4/3/’36) that his fall of oyster spat at
Karuah River was not unprecedented. In
February, 1929, a flood occurred on the
Hastings River (N.S.W.), with mortality
of oyster life on foreshores, wire-netting
trays and dredge portions up to 90 p.c.
of the total brood (stock). Within three
weeks a pin-point set of spat was ob-
served on every piece of shell on dredge
beds, and within three months wire trays,
training walls, ballast heaps and almost
every piece of hard substance in the
river, whether shallow or deep, was
smothered in spat. The Hastings River
hasn’t looked back since. That forced
spawning occurred under abnormal con-
ditions, hence the abnormal reproduction.
TREACHERY.
“He’s got a car,” said Jack to me, “a grunting,
smelly thing,
An’ now most evenings after tea you’ll see
him go an’ bring
Jane out with him to have a spin. Aw, I
know how things are;
He’s set himself that gal to win—an’ so he’s
bought a car!
“O’ course there’s nothing wrong in that —
if you don’t look too near;
But ask ’em all round Dingo Flat who’s his
best cobber here.
They’ll all say me, I’ll bet a quid. I’ve stuck
to him like glue;
I’ve helped in everything he did; and now
what does he do?
“Six weeks ago I bought a gig, some harness
an’ a horse,
Because I reckoned I stood big with that there
Jane, o’ course.
They cost me more’n I could spare, but then
I looked ahead —
I knew they’d last for years with care when
Jane an’ me was wed.
“I never even knew,” said Jack, “that he was
sweet at all
Until they passed me on the track, an’ left me
there to crawl
In my new gig (half-blind with dust) —but
here’s the treach’rous dig,
The thing 1 can’t get off my mind —he helped
me pick that gig!”
N.S.W.
P. T. F.


PERMANENT PASTURES
The best results can only be
assured by using
THE BEST
P. 8.9 FERTILIZER
Because it ensures not only a quick
start to the grass, but also a suffi-
ciency of Plant Food throughout the
whole year, being a mixture of
quick-acting (Superphosphate and
Sulphate of Ammonia) and slow-
acting (Blood and Bone) Manures.
Write for Pamphlets, Post Free.
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
Fertilizer Experts,
52 King Street, Sydney.
At Sydney’s
Social
Centre
You will find every
modern convenience
first-c lass service
and an excellent
cuisine.
A
11
Hotel Mansions
Is situated in the most central part
of Sydney, and is the real home for
visitors from all over the world.
Excellent catering for Wedding Break-
lasts, Dinners and Private Lunches, etc.
King’s Ci oss, Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
Stay at this
MODERN HOTEL
Rooms from 4/- to 16/-!
Ill'
fill'
lii heart of Melbourne.
All modern luxuries.
Unrivalled catering.
Popular “Room Only”
tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
Write to dept. B 1 for
free illustrated folder.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I,
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST RON-LICENSED HOTEL
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
Pink-eye Again.
“Granova”: I agree with “Lion” (B.
4/3/’36) that few sheep affected with
pink-eye go permanently blind, but, if
no control measures are taken, up to 50
p.c. of the flock may be affected, and the
resulting loss of condition is serious.
I have found that it pays to treat the
whole flock as soon as pink-eye is
noticed. Much time is lost picking out
the affected ones, and usually a few are
left in to spread the trouble. Two men,
using spring-bottomed oilcans, can treat
1500 a day.
A dressing of two tablespoons of zinc
sulphate in a pint of boiled water will
prevent the disease from spreading. Bad
cases have to be treated two or three
times at intervals of five days. It is
not practicable to isolate them, as they
are very difficult to muster.
Weaners and young sheep are much
more generally affected than older sheep,
probably owing to the fact that, once a
sheep has recovered from pink-eye, it
never contracts the disease again.
Selling Sheep.
“Granova”: When disposing of sur-
plus sheep, graziers have opportunity to
exercise their judgment and busi-
ness acumen. Markets fluctuate accord-
ing to the seasons, and the success of the
year’s operations often depends on
shrewd selling.
The store market is always very active
when off-shears sheep are available, and
this provides an opportunity to sell good
lines of young sheep or cast-for-age
breeders. Some men join their c.f.a.
ewes and hold them until autumn. They
do well if the season is good, but only
those with adequate fodder reserves
should gamble on the seasons.
If saleyards are handy, it pays to take
the sale sheep in. Restockers invariably
come to the sales, if only to get an idea
of values. Few agents will take a re-
stocker to inspect sheep in the paddock.
Most prefer to bring out a dealer, who
in turn will sell to the restocker.
Good lines of crossbred ewes sell best
if trucked to the inner fat-lamb districts.
Highest prices for prime fat stock are
obtained at the city markets, where values
are set for the rest of the State. Sheep
not quite prime, trucked to a heavily-
supplied city market, are often sold
cheaply, and it is safer to sell these to
local butchers or for topping off.
Shearers’ Agreements.
“Uralcha”: The mutual interests of
shearer and employer would be served
by posting up a copy of the shearers’
agreement form in every shearing-shed.
Although an occasional man has been
known to ask for a duplicate copy on
signing up for a shed, and a few glance
quickly through the agreement on that
occasion, it is too long and involved
to be absorbed at a quick scrutiny, and
there are still thousands of men who
have never troubled to look through the
document they have signed, and who
frequently break their contract unknow-
ingly.
The owner who rigidly insists on hav-
ing his sheep shorn over the tail when
starting the first side is apt to be re-
garded as a crank, and, as a result, men
have learned and continued to shear for
years without shearing over the tail.
When they hit a shed where the practice
is enforced many of them bail up and
challenge the order, and there are no
more surprised men in the world than
they when they are shown the binding
clause (14) in their signed agreement.
The provisions concerning wet sheep
are often improperly understood by both
shearers and employers. Clause 3 states
that “The employer need not pen sheep
for shearing which, in his opinion, are
too wet for shearing.” If bad weather
continues over a period he may also
turn out woolly sheep which have been
under cover if, through weakness, star-
vation or inclement weather, losses are
probable should they be immediately
shorn.
The definition of what constitutes a
ram and a ram stag, for which payment
is made at the rate of two for one, is a
frequent cause of argument, and this is
further complicated by periodical changes
in the application of those definitions.
At present a ram becomes such at six
months old, and a stag means a ram cas-
trated after the age of 18 months.
The clauses governing the careful hand-
ling of sheep on the board should be
understood by all hands—also the regu-
lations concerning the opening up and
treatment of the fleece. Many shearers
neglect to throw the belly wool clear,
leaving it attached to the fleece, with the
result that it is picked up and thrown
out on the wool table.
Many employers would do well to care-
fully read Clause 23 at least a month
before shearing to enable them to check
up on equipment and rectify shortages.
Strict adherence to Clause 31, referring
to the handling and prompt delivery of
mails, will also obviate a lot of discon-
tent. Some graziers are overcasual in
their handling of shed mail, and in some
cases where the shed is distant from the
homestead letters are allowed to lie there
for days before delivery.
Many a modern shearer, speeding from
shed to shed in his own car, and with
an eye to the day when a ’plane may
further accelerate transport, might find
it hard to believe that his agreement still
holds a clause forbidding him to bring
any stallions or bull camels to a shed.
Worms and Common Terms.
“Albarmount”: I doubt if 10 p.c. of
M.O.L. readers are familiar with the
scientific jargon for the various sheep
worms, and “Liss” (B. 18 /3 / ’36) would
have been well advised to stick to the
common terms familiar to all.
The large stomach worm sounds very
formidable as Hcemonchus contortus;
it is most amenable to bluestone or
carbon tetrachloride drench.
Trichostrongylosis refers to the hair
worm, of which there are several species.
Sometimes these cause black scour,
especially in weaners. Drenches haven’t
been very effective, but the bluestone-
nicotine-sulphate drench, mentioned by
“Liss,” promises well.
(Esophagostomum columbianum is
shorn of its bristles when called nodular
worm. The only successful treatment is
arsenious injections into the rectum.
Moniezia expanse is tapeworm. Mostly
young sheep in poor condition are
affected. Good feed and carbon tetra-
chloride drenching minimise the trouble.
Breed ’Em, Then Feed ’Em.
“Rom Ney”: Fat-lamb producers—
and almost every farmer is producing
’em these days—are apt to concentrate
too much on breeding and overlook feed-
ing. Whatever the merits of the four or
five proved crosses, the fact remains that,
without adequate food to start the lambs
well, keep them growing and top them
off without a break, full profit cannot
be made.
In Maoriland, lambs are forced from
drop to market. So much so that faults
due to incorrect breeding are covered up.
N.S.W. growers do not generally grow
sufficient fodder crops nor supply suffi-
cient feed. There are picked spots (Jin-
dalee Valley, Gundagai, Tumut, Batlow,
New England, Canowindra, Tenterfield)
where good swedes, kale, rape, lupins,
etc., can be grown. These are ideal for
topping, yet how few grow them in the
aforesaid spots.
In the greater area there is ample room
for more oats and lucerne. Oats sown
on wheat stubble, with super, and am-
monia (1 and 1) to help, produce heavy
grazing. Lucerne will grow almost any-
where there is a reasonable rainfall. Oats
should be the main fodder crop,
with lucerne for topping off. From
401 b. to 601 b. of oats to the acre will give
a bulk of green feed, with grain for con-
servation when the lambs are finished.
Sow early, mid and late varieties to
bridge the gaps in feed supply.
Renovate the lucerne in March or early
April. Two or three weeks later sow a
bushel of early-maturing oats, such as
Fulghum, with jcwt. to |cwt. of super.,
using the combine. The normal result
should be a well-balanced bulk of green
feed, with the oats Sin. to 4in. taller
than the legume. Fed off from June to
October, a good spring rain will mean
nice, short-strawed hay with grain in the
heads and lucerne in the butts of the
sheaves—ideal sheep feed.
The balanced grazing thus obtained
reduces losses from bloat or pulpy kidney
(entero-tox.) and stops barley grass.
Be sure the lucerne is well established
—one or two years sown before oats are
introduced, with heavy grazing—other-
wise the stand, like the old soldier, will
“simply fade away.”
Wrinkle-breeched Sheep and
Blowfly.
“I. Want”: Sheep, as more than one
writer has pointed out, may be divided
into three main classes in relation to fly
strike. N. S. Wales departmental experts
grade them A, B, and C, the Cs being
wrinkle-breeched and the As plain-
breeched.
Dr. Seddon and Mr. H. G. Belschner
have recently decided that sheep-classers
fault many C-class animals for reasons
other than breech formation, the main
ones being lack of wool, faulty hocks
and general conformation.
Heavily-culled flocks showed a small
percentage of Cs, but in other flocks the
smattering was determined by the owner’s
feeling for “development,” and sometimes
reached as high as 20 p.c. or 30 p.c.
Generally speaking, Cs were found to be
inferior to plain-breeched As in strike
susceptibility, wool quality, liability to
wounding and infection and percentage of
lambs reared. Strike records were made
of thousands of animals, and Cs were
found specially liable to shearing wounds,
carrying with them the risk of tetanus,
cheesy glands and blood-poisoning. And
lambs were more easily cluttered up
with grass seed when wrinkle-breeched.
Dry ewes were more plentiful among
Cs—36 p.c. against 22 p.c. of As, though
these figures may not give a strict picture
of lambing conditions, as wets cannot be
picked from drys until after lambing and
some lambs from ewes of both classes
might have died. Figures available left
investigators positive of the superiority
of the As.
The elimination of Cs is strongly advo-
cated.
Sheep Fertility.
“Ghanam”: The C.S.I.R. has issued a
pamphlet covering the work of Dr.
R. M. C. Gunn in the artificial produc-
tion of fertility in sheep by electrical
methods, together with remarks on arti-
ficial insemination. The matter has been
dealt with fully, if not as clearly as it
might be from a layman’s viewpoint.
As Dr. Gilruth points out in his intro-
duction, it is doubtful to what extent
fertility in our flocks is due to environ-
ment and to heredity. Faults may lie th
the male as well as in the female, and
it appears that only artificial methods
can assure even fertility, since there is no
real apparent relation between the num-
ber of lambs born in any one flock and
the general annual drop of the industry.
Dr. Gunn has worked on his problem
for years, and has just been given his
Doctorate of Veterinary Science for his
thesis on the subject, which Dr. John
Hammond, of Cambridge, declares to be
an “original contribution of distinguished
merit,” adding that by the discovery of
electrical methods of stimulation he has
been enabled to throw light on many
mating problems hitherto obscure.
Moreover, the opening up of avenues
which Dr. Gunn has accomplished by
keeping spermatozoa alive for 64 days
outside the body, which is as long as
they live inside, is, says Dr. Hammond,
a “feat of no mean achievement, and is
one which both adds to scientific know-
ledge and is of great importance to the
animal industry.”
Entero-toxaemia.
“Corriedale”; Probably the most
baffling thing to veterinary research men
to-day is the actual reason why the
known pathogenic organism of entero-
toxaemia should suddenly invade the
sheep’s intestines.
What adds to the difficulty is that
Welchii type D can be distinguished from
its brothers, types A, B and C, only
after exhaustive toxin-antitoxin tests.
Sheep bowels always contain a
generous sprinkling of Welchii, including
type D, but a microscopic examination
merely tells the presence of some mem-
ber or members of the group, as they are
all alike in appearance. Black disease, on
the contrary, is easy to sheet home, as its
sporing bacteria are easily recognised.
Finding what appear to be the causa-
tive bacteria means nothing.
The “type-D problem” is complicated
by the fact that many sheep die from e.-t.
with few typical lesions inside.
Apparently one very tiny centre of
type-D proliferation, an inch across, on
the small intestine can do the damage.
The protein-poisoning theory seems to
be a layman’s easy way out.
The most generally accepted theory is
that the digestive system may get out of
order and temporarily lower resistance
through change of diet, as when stock
are moved from poor to rich feed, and
from the continued ill-effects of an un-
balanced ration, which means too much
of one type of fodder, such as clover.
Until this predisposing factor is found,
nothing more can be done except vacci-
nate, and then remove sheep to poorer
feed after fatalities begin.
Control methods are applied virtually
in the dark.
Pasture Value for Milkers.
“Silky Bag”: It used to be thought
that a decent-grade cow needed a whole
crowd of concentrates to let her produce
more than 4001 b. of butter-fat. To-day,
thanks to the newer ideals as to what
constitute good pastures, a cow very little
above the average can do the same thing
without any bran, oats, linseed, etc. What
has happened is that cow-farmers are
learning how to embody concentrate in
the pastures, which the cows get both
in grazing and bail-fed hay or chaff in
winter.
Witness the Victorian grade test
records for 1935. A total of 2250 cows
produced over 4001 b. of butter-fat, 169
over 5001 b. and 14 gave more than
6001 b. One herd of 42 cows (Furphy’s,
of Dumbalk) yielded a 4421 b. average.
Most of the records were put up entirely
on pasture or pasture hay.
In our better-rainfall districts (25in.
and over) the old routine of growing
o Continued on page 24.)


i J%
i'/V
r
>.O
7h
PJ
&
, * tirm n
in <~>nmmet • Combine
the cbarm of tbe English Summer with a delightful sea voyage on one of the
great P. & O. Royal Mail Liners and enjoy a holiday under ideal conditions.
FIRST SALOON SECOND SALOON TOURIST CLASS
Fares from £39 SINGLE £7O RETURN Plus Exchange
SAILING DATES AND ALL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO LOCAL P. & O. AGENTS,
VIA
SUEZ
P &


Speaking about
. . . Footwear!
296
Have you seen this style?
Absolutely the latest. The
broad, square toe is defi-
nitely masculine, and its
roomy shape gives un-
doubted comfort. Econo-
mical, too, and stocked in
full and half-sizes.
Black Calf 29/6
Brown Calf 29/6
ABBEY POLISH, 6d. PER TIN.
If you don’t like this shape, will you write
and tell us? Ask for our latest Catalogue,
showing other styles, also Golf, Tennis, Evening
Shoes and Riding Boots.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS.” SYDNEY. w.A. 23.
COMET
tvuM
i
SIDNEY WILLIAMS
& CO. PTY., LTD.,
DULWICH HILL,
SYDNEY.
And at
Rockhampton, Brisbane, Townsville
TTiE “Comet” is the first choice of the Com-
monwealth and State Railways, Department
the Interior, Public Works Depts., Pasture
of
Protection Boards, Leading Pastoralists and the
smallest farmers.
Great pumping capacity, maximum reliability and
safety in storms have enabled the “Comet” to
earn the enviable reputation of being “Australia’s
Leading Mill.”
Please forward me your SPECIAL
REFERENCE BOOK and CATA-
LOGUE on “Comet” Mills and
Pumping Problems.
NAME
Postal Address
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTE
BlEllLtCSi
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
JTuTfyulleizrtL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
oats for the main grazing and hay needs,
followed by maize and sorghum cultiva-
tion, is going out.
The cow grazing on a pasture of pas-
palum, white clover, sub.-clover and
cocksfoot (or per. rye) usually secures
nine months of feed. The other three
months should be covered by cutting the
spring growth the animals cannot use.
There is a bit of a catch here, as mostly
this pasture hay is cut too late. If the
cows get the best benefit from a three-
or four-week growth, it is only reason-
able to assume this would also make the
richest hay.
Weeds and Wheat.
“Nabawa”: Recent heavy rains in the
N.S.W. wheat belt have brought away
heavy weed growth on the fallows, and
many growers may make a mistake by
hastening to plough it under. It seldom
decays quickly. The soil is apt to be-
come dry through over-aeration, and
unfit for sowing because of the partly-
decomposed rubbish.
Though the answer may be sheep, jum-
bucks are hard to get just now. They
should be used wherever possible, how-
ever.
The growth is good on fallow intended
for 1937 sowing. Plough it under and
you have a great addition of humus to
aid in building up soil fertility.
The rains have revived the erosion
problem—creeks, washes and gullies
appearing in paddocks that knew them
not last year. Contour banks are the
only permanent cure so far advanced. An
American has come to light with an
original preventive. “Straight ploughing
is treason,” he says. “The arrow-straight
furrow that delighted the old-time farmer
is the greatest ally erosion has. Plough
wavy, crooked furrows.”
He doesn’t suggest what sort of an
implement to use, though no doubt the
usual Australian will invent a plough
with eccentric beams to do the trick.
Noogoora Troubles.
“Kelpie”: “Agamemnon’s” comment
(B. 4/3/’36) on Noogoora burr reminded
me of a method of' control adopted by
a S. Queensland grazier whose station
has about 15 miles frontage to the Mac-
intyre.
Every bend on the river is a Noogoora
nursery, and each was fenced to keep
sheep off during seeding.
However, this grazier has trained some
2500 wethers to eat Noogoora, and finds
them much more economical than burr
cutters.
The method at first was to put the
sheep into a burr-bend until they had
cleaned up all the grass and herbage,
then to give them a day on good grass
and return them to the bend.
They gradually started eating the
leaves. Though a bit of “pinching” was
necessary to start the sheep, they
developed into champion burr-eaters.
They can now be put on to a bend and
left until burr, grass and herbage are
cleaned up—usually about five days.
The poisonous— i.e., the two-leaf —stage
is carefully avoided, and so far no harm-
ful results have been observed. The
grazier reckons his burr-eaters are worth
10s, above market price, and he is now
breaking in another 2000.
Lucerne on Large Areas.
“Hortus”: On large areas the cost is
vital, and there are plenty of factors to
put it up. Broadcasting is expensive. It
is most difficult to obtain an even dis-
tribution of seed when broadcasting is
followed. If a drill or combine is used,
the method of seeding usually advocated
now is to sow the seed through the
lucerne box or mixed with super, through
the manure box.
Remove the seed-tube conveyors first.
This gives a broadcasting effect. Cover
with a light set of broadcasting
harrows. Experience shows that, whilst
it is not a sound practice to sow lucerne
too deeply, much better results are ob-
tained by covering the seed with not less
than lin. of soil, as compared with allow-
ing it to lie on the surface.
More failures occur through too shal-
low sowing than through planting too
deeply. The best results have been ob-
tained in some districts by placing seed
in direct contact with the seedbed mois-
ture at a depth of lin. to On
heavy, self-mulching soils, sowing to a
depth of l|in. to 2in. would prove most
reliable. On light, sandy soils and heavy,
self-mulching clays,- it is probable that
more uniform stands would follow sow-
ing with a cover-crop. On the heavy
soils a cover-crop tends to check thistle
growth where thistle exists.
During the cooler months a cereal crop
covers the surface, and to some extent
acts as a mulch. The soil does not pack
down readily, and drying-out is retarded.
Consequently the lucerne germinates
more freely. Young seedlings are also
protected from frost, if any.
A wheat or oat stubble provides valu-
able protection to the surface soil and
young lucerne plants during the heat of
the first summer.
During the past few years thousands
of acres of lucerne have been successfully
established by sowing with a cover-crop.
Cover-crops have yielded as much as
12 bags per acre with apparently no
detriment to the lucerne. What’s more,
crops of wheat or oats sown with lucerne
have been heavily grazed during the
winter, and yet the stand of lucerne has
been all that could be desired.
In a recent N.S.W. test, carried out to
compare results from sowing lucerne with
and without a cover-crop, the stands were
identical. The cover-crop in this test
stripped seven bags to the acre.
Once the wheat crop is removed the
lucerne quickly becomes firmly estab-
lished. There is one thing essential, how-
ever—uniform depth of mulch.
Lucerne stands of excellent unifor-
mity and density have been obtained
from a seeding of 11b. to 31b. sown with
431b.-551b. wheat per acre.
Of course, if you have soil ideal for
lucerne which will give a number of cuts
each season, it is more advisable to sow
the lucerne alone. It establishes itself
more quickly, and time is an important
factor.
“Graduate”; The market for our sur-
plus primary produce seemed brighter
recently with the announcement by a
representative of the Co-operative Whole-
sale Societies (Great Britain) that they
were prepared to double their present
Australian purchases, amounting to 3i
million pounds annually. The society,
which serves six million customers, will
do business direct only, so as to
eliminate 2\ p.c. middleman’s commis-
sion. N.S.W. Director of Dairying
Mclnnes says that Australia could supply
30,000 tons of butter annually of
guaranteed quality. But he asks why
there is a difference of £3O a ton between
the price paid for the Danish butter and
our own.
“Flick”: “W.D.Mc.” (B. 19/2/’36)
deprecates using the bluestone and mus-
tard drench for worms in sheep, and ad-
vocates one containing arsenic, soda and
tobacco. He does not give the formula.
I have used the bluestone and mustard
drench, and have not had very satisfac-
tory results, doing much better with
carbon tetrachloride. However, I have
always thought that tobacco would be a
very good vermifuge and that it would
be possible to get sheep to take the
waste tobacco from the factories along
with chaff in their feeders. I have hesi-
tated from experimenting because I have
not known the toxicity of tobacco ;
also from fear that it might flavor the
meat. I think it is a matter for experi-
ment. I have heard of one decoy wether
in a shearing-shed which had a penchant
for tobacco, and would search the
shearers’ pockets for it, demolishing a
plug at a time. I guess worms didn’t
trouble him.
“Flyveil”: After reading “Winfield’s”
method of branding sheep (B. 26/2/’36)
I am not surprised that “in his experi-
ence there is no oil that will make a clear
brand from shearing to shearing.” Dis-
card that pad of wool in the bottom of
the branding-tin which “W.” and other
sheepmen favor. Put enough good brand-
ing fluid in the tin to a little more than
cover the bottom. Now take your time
over the job, as the brand has to last for
12 months. Dip the face of the brand
into the fluid for each sheep and bring
the brand down firmly and squarely. Add
a little fluid to the branding-tin for each
raceful of sheep. If the fluid runs or
blotches on the sheep you have too much
fluid in the tin. Wool in the bottom of
the tin may save branding fluid, but it
means a brand that will not last, as the
wool prevents your getting enough fluid
on the iron to make a lasting brand.
The brand is quite clear on 95 p.c. of
our sheep so branded when full-woolled.
A gallon of fluid will do over 1200 sheep.


HOTEL
Bent, Phillip
METROPOLE
and Young Streets, Sydney
*5
■
in
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and IVireless •
“ METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
36363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘III fares the land to hastening hills a
prey.’ These lines from Goldsmith’s poem
‘The Deserted Village’ are very apt, and are
as true to-day as when they were written.” —
Mr. Park hill speaking at Blayney, according to
“S. M. Herald.”
We can assure Mr. Park’ill that de-
spite the gravity of the situation in west-
ern N.S.W. it will be a long time before
the encroaching sand’ills reach Blayney.
•I- ►!* •!*
Unhappy Accident.
He dipped the wrong end of the pen
in the ink, turned the radio on full and
methodically made the baby cry.
A modern poet, he was seeking in-
spiration to compose something which
would set the critics agog. Yes! It was
to be something essentially modern—nay,
futuristic!
He began to write, inscribing from the
top right-hand corner towards the left.
Then he turned the sheet upside-down
and wrote from left to right. He added
a few lines across the page diagonally.
A number of letters slapped in to fill in
the empty spaces, and the manuscript
was complete.
He called in his wife and handed it
to her expectantly.
She read it, frowned on it, studied it.
Then she murmured, “Beautiful!”
“Ha!” he exclaimed. “Then you can
see a meaning in it?”
“Perfectly,” she replied.
He ground his teeth, ripped the poem
to pieces and roared:
“Damn it! It’s a failure!”
T. W. N.
•£■ “i* *i*
“Mr. Brown, who was 988 yesterday....
enhsted for the Crimean War.” — “Sun.”
The experience he had previously
gained under the Black Prince, Marl-
borough and Wellington doubtless
proved invaluable.
•J* *J*
How to Get Your Name In the
Papers.
(1) Drive a 1923 model car at 79.9
m.p.h. in a northerly direction along Pitt-
street. Tell inquisitive traffic-cop that
you lost your stirrups, and your undivided
attention has been occupied in sticking
on. When magistrate fines you £5 and
cancels your driver’s license, jab him in
the ribs, offer to toss him double or quits
and inform him you didn’t have a
license, anyway.
(2) Put a brick wrapped in pink taffeta
through Nunkling’s window and snatch
crystal necklet worth 6s. 6d., ignoring
diamond tiara valued at 66 guineas. Race
up Collins-street and place necklet about
the throat of the first blonde you meet
wearing her monogram worked on her
handkerchief. Now lounge against near-
est post and play “gasper flick,” the new
pavement pastime of flipping a cork-
tipped cigarette from packet to mouth in
one movement. When pursuing con-
stable arrests you, shout: “Hey! You
can t pinch me—l haven’t got the goods
on me.”
(3) Take loaded machine-gun into
public gallery of Parliament House dur-
ing session. Train weapon on Govern-
ment benches and press trigger. When
Opposition members burst into spon-
taneous applause and ribald mirth, swing
muzzle in their direction. On being pub-
licly complimented and rewarded mutter
modestly, “Oh, it was nothing. Anybody
who happened to think of it would have
done it.”
(4) Die.
P.C.
Just Reward.
“The jury found the accused guilty on the
second count of receiving, and he was re-
warded for sentence.” — “S.M.H.”
The hon. organising secretary of the
Amalgamated Master Burglars’ Union
writes:
“Sir, —It is with extreme gratification
that my union notes this report of the
case of one of our most esteemed mem-
bers, indicating as it does a changed out-
look at last on the part of the judiciary.
“Although we have for years been
strongly advocating better treatment for
members, this is the first time that our
efforts have borne fruit, and it is hoped
that, the turning-point having been
reached, the conscientious efforts of a
much-maligned section of the community
will in the future be more suitably
recognised.
“One point, however, remains unex-
plained: the nature of the reward re-
ferred to.
“An innate sense of modesty would of
itself deter members of my union from
making any suggestion to the presiding
Judge, though I express the views of the
vast majority in stating that they would
deem it sufficient reward if they were to
be left unmolested by a too-officious
police or if, when apprehended, they
“Hey! y'r house is on fire!”
“ What's that to do with me? I'm a boilermaker , not a blarsted fireman.”
were allowed to retain the goods which,
by their skill and a fine disregard of the
risks of a hazardous profession, they
had acquired. Should, however, the
Department of Justice wish to reward
them by a straight-out monetary grant,
I am sure that no cavilling objections
would be raised.
“Whichever method be adopted, it is
sincerely to be desired that the rewards
will be distributed on a strictly pro rata
basis. It would obviously be unjust if,
for instance, the ordinary journeyman
burglar just out of his “time,” as it were,
were to receive the same as, say, a
“habitual” who had given the best years
of his life to his chosen profession. I
would commend this point particularly
to the notice of the Minister concerned.
“The happier relations now manifested
between Bench and Dock embolden me
to hope that the time is fast approaching
when society will recognise that burglars
are, in their own humble way, but
honestly endeavoring, according to their
own (doused) lights, to effect a more
even distribution of the world’s goods—
a worthy cause which surely all students
of economics will rejoice to see
attempted.—Yours etc., Basil Belta-
copp, Hon. Org. Sec., per
S. W. K.
•Jr "Jr •Jr •Jr
“Down had terrorised the neighborhood.
The Court was perturbed at the story told by
some of the witnesses.” — “Sun."
Then the Court ought to have settled
Down.
•Jr 4* 4*
“He found that selling pancakes at least
brought a quick profit.”— “Telegraph.”
A rapid turnover.
The Truth Addict.
“Injections of scopolomine compel a person
to tell the truth, even against his will.”
—News item.
“Swear on your scopolomine that you
really do love me,” she murmured.
Manfully taking another shot of the
drug, he told her without hesitation that
she was the most wonderful girl in the
world. So he married her ; but, alas! the
insidious habit had taken hold of him.
He became a scopolomine addict,
“You’re the world’s worst cook,” he
declared a month later. “You’re ex-
travagant and flirtatious. I wish I’d
never married you.”
She went home to mother, but that
did not pull him up. His craving for
scopolomine was insatiable.
“I think I can be justly proud of the
business I have built up from nothing,”
said his boss in an expansive moment.
“If I made money by the methods
you use I’d be in daily fear of the
police,” declared the truth addict.
Out of a job, he couldn’t get the dole
because he would fill in the forms truth-
fully. He spent months in gaol because,
under the dreadful influence of scopolo-
mine, he insisted on informing on him-
self whenever he broke a regulation or
a by-law.
Medical men could do nothing for
him, but to-day this truth addict is cured,
and a normal citizen again. He has no
further craving for scopolomine, and is
thinking of standing for Parliament.
How was the miracle performed? A
friend, his only friend, persuaded him
to join the Anglers’ Club.
Angus O’Cohen.
Success.
With set jaw, Basil Blazer was grimly
determined to fight his way to success.
Minor successes only served to spur him
on with a savage energy towards his
goal, laughing at the weaklings who went
to the wall, spurning the faint-hearted
who fell by the way
Recognising no law but the law of
fang, he emerged from the ruck a ruth-
less leader of men, his early struggles far
behind and the bathroom door of the
guest house directly in front of b ; >n!
McM.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
VIII. — Poking About Port Pirie.
Port Augusta folk will tell you not
to visit Pirie, saying it is hot, dusty and
smoky. With the natural perversity of
tire tourist you’ll probably go, and if it
isn’t a hot, dusty and smoky day you’ll
be disappointed. If it is, you can’t say
you weren’t warned.
The first thing that will strike the tour-
ist after he has slipped into the one on
the corner for something to counteract
the sulphur fumes, will be the street
nomenclature. It seems as though one of
the pioneers, with an overdeveloped
bump of philoprogenitiveness, set out to
perpetuate the names of his numerous
offspring. A staunch believer in the
segregation of the sexes, he named the
north-south streets after his daughters
and the east-west ones after his sons.
As the town progressed, more streets
became necessary. The new generation
plumped for numbers, but sufficient of
the old blood remained to ensure that,
although numbers were adopted, they
weren’t numbers at all, but names.
Thus, if the tourist continues on past
First and Second streets he may, if he
has sufficient patience and endurance,
reach the South Pole, but he’ll never
reach Third-street —it’s in a different
direction altogether; while as for the
slight peculiarity of Sixth-street coming
before Fifth —why, that’s nothing.
It doesn’t rain very often in Pirie.
When it does dogs go mad, children rush
to their mothers in terror and every
bucket in the town is requisitioned to
cope with the leaks in the roofs.
Pirie is like Holland in that it is sur-
rounded by dykes to keep back the sea.
Unfortunately, the children' are not so
well trained as the Dutch youngsters,
and heretofore in time of flood there has
been no little Hans to save the place
from inundation. After the last flood,
however, a Dutch family was imported,
and the populace now sleep soundly.
Pirie possesses lead smelters (or vice
versa). These work three shifts a day,
and so do the boarding-house beds.
The smelters are highly mechanised
and nothing is touched by hand.
When I told my party this. Sir
Percy Whipsnoodle said he
thought it was a very good idea,
as it ensured that a soldier hit
by a bullet made from Pirie lead
would run no risk of incurring
blood-poisoning or any infectious
diseases. Mrs. Loofah said
“Who’d want to touch the com-
mon stuff, anyway?” and Claude
Counterpane cracked the old
joke about when is a soldier said
to be on his mettle, the answer
being “When he is riding a ied’
horse.” Miss Birdseed laughed,
but Mrs. Loofah said it was silly
and, anyway, they weren’t spelt
the same.
Miss Birdseed on her visit to
the Smelters :
We watched a shovelful of ore go right
through till it came out as bars of lead....
So romantic to think that next time I
buy refills for my Eversharp I may get
that very lead.
Questions not to ask in Pirie:
(1) A fisherman’s opinion of Haile
Silassie. (2) A cricketer’s opinion of the
programme for the English tour. (3)
Anyone’s opinion of the Transport Board.
Jasby.
A Fool Ensnared.
You cannot scrub, you cannot wash.
You cannot cook a dinner; no.
You ruin food, my darling. Gosh!
You cannot knit, you cannot sew.
You cannot sing, you cannot write,
You cannot model, paint or draw.
You can’t do anything — you’re quite
Incompetence’s final straw.
You’re neither true nor dutiful;
And, though a wiser man would pause
On wedlock’s brink, I can’t because
You’re so sublimely beautiful!
P. O. M. C.
Dark Night.
Though to my heart you're much
endeared,
Sweet Esma, I can ne'er explain
About that night I disappeared,
So your inquiries are in vain.
That night behind a veil is hid;
Not even boundless heaps of pelf
Could make me tell you what I did —
That is, unless I’m told myself!
NAT.


Fine Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:-
THE BRIDLE TRACK
By J. J. HARDIE
Chapter VII. —( Continued).
TO the horsetailer Dinny said curtly, “Catch that
chestnut! ”
There was a touch of pallor in the full, round
face, and the white of his eyes was more evident than
usual as, after much unnecessary fuss and exertion, he
caught the chestnut horse and tied the bridle to a
tree. All the while Dinny stood still, his cold, critical
eyes noting every careless movement, the chances
deliberately missed. As the horsetailer walked
away Dinny hailed him ; there was a sharp peremp-
toriness in his tone, like the crack of a whip.
“You were given that chestnut to ride by Turn-
bull’s brother?”
The horsetailer moistened his lips with the tip
of his tongue without replying, and his shifty eyes
avoided the grim stare.
The. relentless voice continued. “You were too
damned yellow to ride him yourself, and when Turn-
bull—an old man —got on him he threw him and
broke his leg. Yet you kidded a boy—a newchum —
to ride him . . . and nearly got him killed!” The
voice rose ; the tones had a hard, cutting edge. “Get
on that horse now and ride him ! ”
The horsetailer raised his head to reply, then
dropped it again without a word. He took a few
irresolute steps towards the horse, then stopped and
turned with a show of defiance,
“Damned if I will! Ride him your bloody self! ”
He backed away as Dinny stepped toward him,
thrusting a slip of paper at him. “Here’s your
cheque! Roll your swag and get to hell out of this!
And if you’re still here by the time I’ve finished with
that horse I’ll put my brand on you! ”
Dinny led the chestnut clear of the camp and
saddled him. There was a grim finality about his
movements, an ominous silence as he patiently
adjusted the crupper on the fidgeting, side-lashing
horse ; then he picked up his whip. The chestnut
stood rigid, showing the white of its eyes, as the man
prepared to mount. The next movement was so swift
that neither the horse nor the open-mouthed cook
witnessed the transition. Dinny was in the saddle,
and as the chestnut whirled and bucked the spurs dug
savagely in its shoulders. Round and round, bucking,
plunging, whirling and kicking, grunting and squeal-
ing with rage, and all through the vicious struggle
the man on its back spurred it mercilessly and con-
tinuously from shoulder to flank.
The chestnut paused with wide, red nostrils and
dripping flanks. The doubled thong of the whip rose
and lapped under its belly, and the horse shot off
at a headlong gallop down the track. In five minutes
they were back, the horse abject and lathered with
foam. From the saddle Dinny glanced over the camp,
then looked at the cook.
Toothless Jimmy jerked a thumb toward a fast-
moving pillar of dust receding up the track. “ ’E’s
gone!”
Chapter VIII.
BESSIE MACANDREW noticed the man at the
gate as she passed through the bare, echoing hall
with an armful of things to be packed. There
was something familiar, about him, but at the moment
she could not quite place him, so she,paused, screened
by the flyproof door, and peered out at the figure
outlined against the sunglare of the street. The man’s
hand hesitated on the latch of the white wooden gate -;
a wide-brimmed felt hat hid his face; then, as she
waited, the gate was pushed open and the man came
slowly through. • ;
As he turned his back to fasten the gate ,she
remembered. “Bill Muir!” Then, as he faced her
and walked on to the verandah, indecision and reluct-
ance in his step, she backed away, her hand pressed;
to her lips. She had forgotten the accident. ,
He could not see her through the gauze screen,
and as he still hesitated her eyes searched for a
vestige of the features she had known. The left side
of the face was much as it had been, but the broken
nose ended and distorted the resemblance. The other
side of the face did not belong to the Bill Muir she
had known. The skin, though pale, was unscarred,
but the chin was squarer, the corner of the mouth
had a tight, cynical twist, and the eyelid a permanent
droop.
There was a faint knock at the door, but she
dared not go. Another knock, then the sound of slow
retreating footsteps, and she forced herself out, almost
colliding with Bob in the hall.
“You go!”
She pushed him forward and rushed to the
kitchen.
Half-way back to the gate the caller heard the
scrape of the gauze door being pushed open and a
friendly young voice called an interrogative “Good
day!” As he turned young Mac rushed to meet him.
“Bill I ”
Then he stopped dead, and his voice was slow
and hushed. “Gripes, Bill, it —it must have hurt!”
Bill held out his hand, a twisted smile on his
face. “I didn’t think you’d recognise me. No one
else has.”
“Come on in!”
Young Mac dragged the door invitingly open,
but the visitor still hesitated. “Come on! We’re just
packing up. Dad got the selection, and we’re all
going down to New South Wales.”
“I’m glad -about that, Mac!”
He entered slowly and removed his hat with
apparent reluctance.
A woman appeared at the far end of the hall
wiping her hands on her apron. “Who is it, Bob?”
“It’s Bill Muir, mum!”
The woman came forward with hands out-
stretched. “I’m glad to see you, Bill, even if the
house is nearly bare. Bob! Tell Bessie to make
the tea.”
“I won’t stay, Mrs. Mac Andrew. I only got back
to-day, and thought I would look in to see —to see
if”
“I’m glad you did, and I wish Tom was here.
What a terrible time you must have had! Dinny
told us all about it. Have you heard from him
lately?”
He nodded. “I’m on my way to join him now.
He’s got me a job on a cattle station out west —on
the Georgina. He’s there now.”
Bessie entered with the teacups on a tray, and
- he greeted her with a smile. She held out her hand
and smiled back. Somehow,'he looked different when
smiled. It wasn’t the Bill Muir of the classic
. profile, r It was someone else —someone she,didn’t
know, but felt she wanted to know. And Whemhe
looked quietly at you like that and smiled —the droop-
- irig'eyelid, the tucked-in corner of, the mouth, .com-
bined to add a spice of mystery,-a hint of sophisti-
cation that intrigued. - •: <’A ; .'
She passed the plate of hastily-buttered biscuits
[and settled opposite him with an added softness in
her glance. •
When Bill left MacAndrews’ he crossed the deep
gutter and walked down the middle of the dusty road
trying to sort out the conflicting thoughts that alter-
nately'pushed him forward and dragged him back.
t At the corner his twisted smile, with the Puckish
quality about it, announced that a. decision had been
reached. He turned abruptly to the right, counting
the houses as he went. If his memory still served
him, the slim, dark girl lived hereabouts. He exam :
ined the long-verandahed house behind the Paddn-
sonias. ,
“I wonder what she' ll say! ”
Chapter IX.
TWELVE YEARS LATER.
YOUNG MAC gave a last look round the camp,
banked the fire and climbed heavily into the
saddle with a silent prayer to the Providence which
had deserted him of late that the tucker would not
be raided by blacks, dingoes or straying camels before
he got back. He had left Boulia only that morning
with a couple of men —a cook and a horsetailer—
attracted by his promise of a long droving trip. Both
men were staging a recovery from the liquidation of
their last cheques, and both were inclined to be some-
what morbid —especially the cook. By dint of much
patient persuasion, he had got them at last to the
camp down the river, and was beginning to congratu-
late himself that part of his worries was over when
the cook, who had not dismounted, looked down at
him with bleary, bloodshot eyes and poked an accus-
ing finger at the heap of packsaddles.
“This your camp?” he demand thickly.
Mac nodded assent.
“Bring a man out to this, would y’!” he snarled.
“Expect me to cook in a packhorse camp! Not on
y’r life! C’mon, Stan!”
So Mac was faced with a second visit to Boulia
in one day, and the prospect was not pleasing. The
red dust rose under his horse’s feet in a thick, choking
cloud and hung in the motionless hot air, collecting
in a deep layer on the clean white shirt he had put
on that morning. Nice way to spend a twenty-fourth
birthday, he reflected glumly, and went on to wonder
where he was going to pick up any other men. There
was already more work offering in the district than
men to fill it, and the few left in Boulia showed their
consciousness of the situation in a lofty independence.
Anyhow, he thought bitterly, those two that turned
him down that morning would have spread the news
about his meagre equipment and settled his hopes of
getting anyone else. Yet he simply must get help —
even if he had to pick up a Chinaman.
He tied his horse to the rail in front of the store
and entered its dim warmth. The storekeeper raised
his eyebrows. “Back again?”
Mac assented gloomily. “Those ■ two fellows
cleared out. Any idea where I could pick up another
man or two?”
The storekeeper shook his head with emphasis.
“There’s no one else in town I know of. See
the sergeant —he might know —or you could look in
at the pub. Some station men rode in an hour ago.”
Mac paused outside the pub and listened unin-
terestedly to a number of voices raised in argument
within. Then came the sounds of a scuffle, the thud
of a blow and a woman’s stifled scream, followed by
a momentary silence. He stuck his head cautiously
inside the door. The knot of men'clustering at one
end of the bar parted, and a khaki-clad stockman
dragged out a sagging figure by the shoulders ; the
fallen one’s spurred heels dragged limply across the
floor. A thin, hard-faced woman darted from behind
the bar, and Mac, entering, gave the pair a hand to
lay the casualty on a bench against the wall.
Mac stared at the man’s features in the dim light
with a vague feeling that they had met before; he
turned to the man at his side. “What was the row
about?”
“Oh, nothing! Bill comes in straight off the grass
and gets a few drinks across his chest. Then he picks
on Big Harry and gets knocked stiff.”
“But what was the argument?”
“Damned stupid one. Bill here gets mad just
because Harry calls him a bastard. Nothing in that
to get wild about!”
Mac’s memory flashed back to the fight at
O’Brien’s on that cold, starry night; he peered closely
at the features of the man on the bench. The head
was bare, and the fine fair hair with the reddish tings
through it was getting thin above the forehead ; both
closed eyelids looked alike, but the irregular line of
the nose clinched the matter —it was Bill all right.
The, woman returned with a jug of water and
stared suspiciously at Mac. “What do you want?”
“He’s a mate of mine.”
Her’eyes narrowed. “You’ve never been in with
him before. Who are you anyhow?”
t Macr ignored her question. Through the doorway
' a glimpse of a light cart coming up the street decided
his plan of action almost as soon as the idea was
born..- He dashed out and hailed the driver. “How
far are you going?”
<; The thin-lipped youth eyed him coldly. “Down
t’ the Chow’s garden.”
J • “How about giving my mate a lift? He’s
shickered, and I want to get him back to camp before
he sobers up.”
The youth gazed stonily up the street for a few
seconds, then he grudgingly assented and backed his
cart to the pub doorway.
The barmaid looked up with cold hostility in
her eyes. “What do you think you’re going to do?”
“Fm taking him out to the camp.”
THE STORY SO FAR—
“Bill” Muir (baptised Lancelot Ather-
ton, but not proud of it) comes to Queens-
land and joins up as a newchum with
a sheep-drover, Mac Andrew. Mac’s
right-hand man is Dinny, whom Bill
hero-worships.
After a couple of trips with sheep, Mac
is called away to N.S.W., and Dinny
and Bill are engaged by Turnbull to
pick up a mob of cattle.
After a week on the track Bill, smart-
ing at the gibes of the horsetailer,
attempts to mount an outlaw horse. He
is dragged and badly injured. Dinny
takes him a long distance to hospital and
returns to camp.
How last week’s instalment ended.
The cook paused in his hustle to get
the fire going to venture a question.
“How’s the young fellow?”
“He’s alive, but only just. And if he
does get right you’ll never know him by
his face again.”


“Like hell you are? Bill’s stopping with me.”
She glared defiantly at Mac, ignoring the growing
clamor for drinks.
“I only want to get him right again. He’ll be
back as soon as he’s sobered up and had a feed.”
The noisy demands and rapping of glasses on the
counter increased, and the withering, crudely-painted
woman hesitated, then capitulated with a bitter threat.
“If he ain’t you’d better not show your face in here
again.”
Mac got his arms under the still-insensible man,
staggered to the cart with his burden, and with the
boy’s help got him aboard. The driver whipped up
his horse and rattled off toward the crossing. . Mac,
turning to get his horse, felt a tug at his arm; the
barmaid poked a flask of whisky into his hands and
nodded with grim significance. The other stockman
staggered out after him. “Hey! Where y’goih’with
Bill?” . r . ( . . , , ; , J '
“It’s all right! I’m only taking him out to sober
up,” Mac assured him; then, as a thought occurred to
him, he queried, “Where’s his horse?”
“Round the back. Good sort o’ bay with star
and white hind foot, branded LBM near shoulder.”
Mac waved his thanks and hurried to the pub
yard, wondering how it was that some men could get
too drunk to remember their own names and still be
able to give a minute description of a horse. He
had no difficulty in picking it out of the little mob
in the yard., A beautifully-proportioned bay, with a full,
clear eye, sidled away to the extent of the reins at his
approach. He led it quickly to the store, mounted his
own horse and cantered after the cart, with the bay
running easily beside him.
Mac glanced anxiously at the man still sprawled
in the bottom of the cart, then threw an inquiring
look at the driver. “He’s all right!” was the casual
reply. “He’s snorin’.”
If he only remained in his present comatose con-
dition till they reached camp all would be well. But
presently a dust-grimed face peered over the jolting
edge of the cart. The driver looked down uncon-
cernedly at the reviving man. “Aw, git down!
You’re nearly there.”
“Where are we going?”
“To your camp.”
“You be damned! This isn’t the way to my
camp. Pull up and let me out!”
Mac rode in close to the cart, “Hang on, Bill.
We’re nearly there!” _ . /
“Who are you, an’ what are you doing with my
horse? Here!” He pursed his dry lips to whistle,
but the attempt was a failure, and he sat down again
in the jolting cart and held his aching head between
his palms.
The cart pulled up beside the stacked packsaddles ;
Mac quickly unrolled his swag, helped the unsteady
man to the ground, and left him sitting with a dazed
expression while he scrambled down the steep bank
to the waterhole with a billy in his hand. Bill blinked
stupidly at the tin washing-dish, then mechanically
laved his dusty face and head. As Mac silently handed
him a towel, he peered owlishly up at him. “Who
was it hit me?”
“A big lump of a chap—l forget his name.”
The man on the ground tried to scramble to his
feet; Mac took his arm and assisted him to the
blankets spread out in the shade, “Let me go! I’m
going back to clean him up. He can’t call me that.
Mac pressed him down and lied soothingly.
“You’re too late. He left town before you did. Any-
how, a name can’t hurt you.”
“Can’t it! ”
He struggled vainly to rise again, glaring savagely
at Mac. “All right for you to talk! You have a
father ... So have I ... but he doesn’t know me!
But I’ll find him . . . and then” He sank weakly
back on the blankets, one hand covering his eyes.
Mac, watching intently, thought he was asleep, and
was about to leave when the eyes opened and a thick
voice muttered, “Give my horse a drink!
Bill woke with an ache in his jaw and a bigger
ache in his head and a mouth like the inside ql a
sun-perished boot. He frowned at the unfamiliai
blankets and the cheesecloth mos-
quito-net rigged over him while the
tinkle of unknown horse-bells came
closer and closer. He rose un-
steadily, pulled on his boots and
took a good look at the camp ; the
old stock saddles, the little old-
fashioned packsaddles and the tent-
fly on the ground near him that
had been someone’s bed last night.
A feeling of compunction assailed
him, but the uneasiness of waking
in a strange place with so many
missing-links in the chain of
memory took precedence at the
moment. But his thirst took
priority over even that; he took
it to the waterhole.
The big, rough-barked coola-
bahs, grimed with the übiquitous
red dust that hung over the steep
banks, satisfied him that he was
still on the Burke. Yesterday he
had ridden into Boulia and had a
few drinks with—who was that big
fellow?—fencing contractor—Big
Harry. That was it! And there
were some of Harry’s mates and
one or two stockmen from War-
enda. Then he and Maisie had' a
yarn at the end of the bar . . .
he arranged to see her . . . He
stopped and stared at the sun just
above the horizon, at the river-
bank and the set of the tangle of
jetsam in the projecting tree-roots. So the river ran
that way—when it did run —and, according to that, the
sun was in the east —rising. He had missed that date
with Maisie!
He filled a quartpot from the waterbag that hung
from a limb and gulped it greedily; the moderately
cool muddy water tasted heavenly. Then the horses
trotted in and past him down to the waterhole, his
own bay leading the nondescript mob like a guards-
man followed by an underfed lot of street loafers.
His slightly contemptuous glance- took them all in ;
then he turned moodily away.
“Looks like a second-rate drover’s plant.”
He looked up again as the following horseman
rode over to the camp. His glance took in the
approaching horse first, from coronet to withers, head,
girth and quarters, without apparent enthusiasm ; then
•he looked at the rider. -He was short, thickset, dark-
complexioned and probably in his early twenties, but
the dour cast of his stolid features made him appear
older. There was something vaguely familiar about
him, about the smiling nod, the quiet “Hello, Bill!”
yet he could not quite remember.
“Whoa, boy!” The rider dragged his horse to
a standstill and slipped to the ground. Enlightenment,
came to the other in a flash.
‘‘lt’s young Mac! How are you, boy?” He
clasped the outstretched hand in a firm grip. “I
didn’t know you till you pulled that horse up! Then
I remembered Dinny calling you a ham-handed young
shepherd that would never make a horseman as long
as your heels pointed to the ground.”
Mac ignored the left-handed compliment and
smiled back. “Feeling better, Bill?”
“If I am I must have been pretty onkus before!
How did I get here . . . and when?”
“Wait till I get the billy on. Will you keep an
eye on the horses?”
Bill turned a humorless eye on the mob scramb-
ling up the bank. “Horses, did you say? There’s one
horse among them and he’s got my brand on him.
Where in God’s name did you pick up this collection
of misfits?”
Mac, tending to the fire, winced inwardly, but
his stolid features never changed. “They’re good
enough for droving. Bill. I can’t afford to pay fancy
prices for flash hacks —these horses have to work
for their living.”
“Yes —and any poor unfortunate devil that has
to ride them will have to work for his! Mac, your
old man had some poor horses in his plant, but he
always had some good ones too.” He searched around
till he found his saddle and bridle. “Got a bit of
old damper?”
“Look in that near packbag. Still teaching them
tricks?”
“I gave up the exertion of chasing horses across
the flat years ago. I’m lazy by nature and not ashamed
to admit it. In fact, it’s lazy blokes like me who
supply the world with labor-saving devices.”
He whistled, and the head of the bay horse
appeared above the bank. Bill held up the bridle,
spread open by his outstretched fingers, and whistled
again. The bay horse whinnied softly, walked straight
up to the bridle and slipped his head into it, then
stuck his nose into the man’s hand, nuzzling him
gently till he found the damper. Bill let the reins
drop to the ground, and the horse stood quietly chew-
ing at the tough-crusted mouthful while his boss
turned the other horses back to the camp.
He approached a rough-coated brown horse to
hobble him ; it shied off and trotted away, with its
head and tail in the air. He cornered it eventually,
hobbled it and several others, then turned to the man
at the fire.
“How much time and sweat do you waste every
day trying to catch these hairy-legged, bumblefooted
brumbies of yours? I’ll bet a quid you could make
a damper in half the time and save yourself a ton
of trouble.”
Mac straightened his back as he stepped away
from the fire, and replied with a sober smile.
“How about a bit of breakfast?”
Chapter X.
BILL tipped up the dented black billy for his third
pint of tea, pouring it carefully off the leaves that
swirled from the bottom of the can. He propped
himself against a packsaddle, fished for cigarette
papers and tobacco-tin, and threw an interrogative
glance across at Mac. “Smoke?”
Mac shook his head.
“Don’t you drink, either?”
Again the dark head shook negatively.
“Nor go with the girls?” A long shaft of sun-
light pierced the branches and glinted on the hatless
head.
Mac’s broad shoulders shrugged non-committally,
and Bill’s drooping eyelid augmented his mocking
smile.
“You’re too good to be true, Mac! When you
get back to Longreach look inside the bar at the
Commercial and you’ll find a notice: ‘The man that
neither smokes nor drinks has other vices.’ But,
honestly, what have you been doing'all these years?”
“Nothing much—working mostly.”
Mac seemed anxious to change the subject.
“Where’s Dinny?”
Bill’s eyes seemed to be looking at some distant
object out across the river channels —or even a bit
beyond.
“Dinny’s dead. A sniper got him on Gallipoli.”
He paused for nearly a minute, then spoke in
slow, reminiscent tones.
“He was the finest fellow I ever met! Remember
the time your old rpan picked me up in Longreach —
green as grass, and as useless as they make them?
It was Dinny who put me on the right track and kept
me on it, never laughing at the damn’ silly things I
said and did. That time I got my face smashed he
turned down a good job and came back as soon as
he delivered the cattle and stayed there with me in
that awful one-eyed town. I wouldn’t have been
game to go back among people that had known me
if it hadn’t been for him. I expected them to laugh
at me —to pity me —but he made me face it, made
me promise to visit everyone I knew in Longreach.
Remember how I came back just as you were pack-
ing up?
“He got me a job up here with him, and we
worked on cattle stations up and down the river, from
here to the Territory, went droving, breaking-in, and
when the war started we joined up together. Well —
Dinny’s still on Gallipoli. I went through with the
Light Horse, and after it was over came back to the
old beat.”
“But what are you doing, Bill? Got a place of
your own?” ,
“Me ?” He leaned back his head and laughed
sardonically. “I’m a plain blanky stockman, Mac!
I can’t settle down in any one place for long, so when
I knock up a cheque I buy a good colt if I can find
what I want, and sometimes I’ll blow in and have
a few drinks —as you noticed.”
o Continued on page 50.)
The rider slipped to the ground. Enlightenment came to the other in a flash.


EASE... HAPPINESS..
thrift rewarded.
fd
f
Insurance
makes many
things pos-
sible—things which count in life
. . . education for your children
. . . protection of their future . . .
your wife’s financial security . . .
contentment for the family.
This Company issues all forms of
Assurance Policies: Life, Endow-
ment, Children’s, Family Monthly
Income, Personal Accident, Fire
and Motor Car.
pro
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T .°
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney,
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. DarvalL General Manager.
MAKE TOrS
ami NOVELTIES
With
Delta
Scroll Saw
Thousands of toy and novelty makers, for
hobby or spare or full-time money-making,
are using the new “Delta” Scroll Saw. Runs
at full motor speed (1,800 strokes a minute)
without vibration. Uses finest jeweler’s blade
at full motor speed. Wonderful for many
types of woodworking. To see
COME IN it is a treat. Don’t miss it. Ask
TAnA vi our salesmen to demonstrate.
I vUATi No obligation.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED DELTA
BOOKLET, POST FREE.
M£PHerson§)
Plrpprietanj limited
51 BATHURST STREET ... SYDNEY.
582 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
116 WAYMOUTH STREET, ADELAIDE.
533 MURRAY STREET PERTH.
A Foolish Fantasy:—
TO-NIGHT, NO
MOON WE SEE
BY LES ROBINS ON
1r was one of the worst nights imagin-
able. Rain, hail and spindrift swept
the deck, sometimes alternately, but
as often, volley-like and in blizzard
fashion, altogether. The insensate violence,
the sullen fury of the elements, the
boisterous bounding and rampageous
careering of huge waves that rushed
up, at and upon us out of the
Stygian darkness, threatening momentarily
to engulf the ship, seemed mainly
directed towards making us as uncom-
fortable and disconsolate as possible.
Caught by the gale before there was time
really to do more than commence re-
ducing canvas, our present predicament
caused us —me in particular—much
uneasiness.
The ship, heeling over to the starboard
at an angle so acute that the ends of the
spars seemed very nearly brushing against
the foam-crested seas, was tearing
through them as though panic-stricken.
The deck was awash. Up aloft the men
were toiling mightily at the almost super-
human task of taking in sail. The main
to’g’n’s’l was proving troublesome in the
extreme. Seeming bent upon foiling all
efforts to furl it, the sail flapped and
thrashed at us like some gigantic, power-
ful and irate bird. So violent were its
movements indeed that I found myself
compelled to cling like grim death to
anything in the shape of cordage that I
could clutch, in order to remain on my
perilous perch.
As much as possible I strove, at the
same time, to get a bight of the canvas
tight-pressed by my abdomen, with a
view to holding it there long enough to
enable me to pass a gasket. The bos’n,
out on the same yardarm, and working
invincibly, despite the hurricane’s frus-
trative intensity, was much too busy to
get alongside me. He could only curse
through his clenched teeth, impotently,
which, as there was something about me
that seemed to exasperate him, was, per-
haps, just as well.
Stormy petrels, invisible in the murk
and enjoying themselves immensely, flew
about the ship uttering shrill, complain-
ing cries that resembled the squeakings
of an unoiled wheelbarrow. Probably
they were telling one another where all
the worst storms were to be found and
exchanging sailing directions and infor-
mation about future weather prospects.
Then, suddenly and without warning,
the footrope carried away beneath my
feet, leaving me, to my consternation,
dangling helplessly over the spluther of
tumultuous water below.
“You was never aloft in your life!”
exclaimed the bos’n accusingly.
He possessed the strange gift appar-
ently, inconvenient to those upon whom
he used it, of thought-divination.
“Then it must have been some other
sailor that the footrope broke beneath,”
I replied.
“You’re not a sailor, either,” growled
the bos’n disparagingly. “You’re not
the fag-end of one. You’re not a sailor’s
bootlace! ”
“What about this full-rigged ship, then,
tattooed on my chest?” I said, risking
pneumonia by baring it for his inspec-
tion.
It’s a fake! ” he said, more disparag-
ingly than ever, and, taking a small
bottle from his oilskin pocket, he poured
some of the fluid it contained on his
handkerchief and rubbed the nautical
skin-picture with it.
“There y’are!” he exclaimed tri-
umphantly. “What did I tell y’?”
Sure enough the tattooed ship had
disappeared.
And now git on with peelin’ them
pertaters,” he growled contemptuously,
“or I’ll give y’ a taste of a rope’s-end.”
“So that’s all I’m fit for?” I thought.
“That’s all,” said the bos’n with crass
and umiecessary emphasis, reading my
thoughts again.
“My education’s been wasted then?”
I murmured gloomily.
“Money thrown overboard,” he ejacu-
later, as resentfully as though it had
been his own,
T IE Squidge, stripped almost bare, was
* laboring badly in a nasty cross (in
both senses of the word) sea. The frigid-
ity of the atmosphere, which no amount
of even dry clothing would have more
than partially minimised, did nothing,
however, to reduce the intense and in-
creasing heat of the planking beneath our
feet. The cargo, most of which was in-
flammable, had (owing, no doubt, to spon-
taneous combustion) been smouldering
for weeks, and despite the gallons of
water pumped upon it the fire was spread-
ing with disquieting rapidity.
Now that the men, having finished
their work aloft temporarily, were busily
rigging lifelines, repairing the cabin sky-
light, smashed by a giant sea, and mak-
ing fast fittings and impedimenta of one
kind and another that had broken loose
and were causing trouble on deck, a dis-
agreeable odor assailed our nostrils. It
was the soles of their sandshoes burning.
“I think it would be a good idea, con-
sidering the discomfort and fatigue they
have been enduring for the past forty-
eight hours,” I said to the bos’n politely,
“to lay all hands aft and splice the main
brace.”
“ ’Go’s a-runnin’ of this ’ere ship, you
or me?” he exclaimed fiercely and very
red in the face. “And don’t go puttin’
your spoke in like that either, takin’ the
very order I was about t’ give out of
me mouth!”
“No, y’ don’t!” he growled indig-
nantly shortly afterwards, snatching away
from me the well-deserved tot of rum I
was about to raise to my lips. “Stow-
aways don’t git no such
luxuries aboard this
ship. Bilgewater’s good
enough for the likes o’
you! ”
Ceaseless and dan-
gerous work in the rig-
ging, but even more so
on deck, for ever and
anon, though the
handling of the vessel
left little to be desired,
we unavoidably shipped
a sea.
The bos’n, his eyes
glued aloft, was cling-
ing to the fore-and-aft
rail of the poop.
“Look out!” I shouted warningly
as an immense wall of water rushed
up out of the night, seemed to pause
for an instant as though gloating
over its prey, then descended much
as might have been expected had a
reservoir burst in our immediate
vicinity, discharging its total contents
simultaneously in a cataclysmic
cataract upon us. Smashing what
was left of the galley and deckhouse
to matchwood, it stove in several of
the boats and, by wrenching off,
twisting and shattering fittings in all
directions, created, in its irresistible
progress from one end of the ship to
the other, general havoc.
“Man overboard! ” bawled one of
the men at the wheel.
“We can’t do anything,” I said
despondently. “No boat could live
in such a sea.”
“ ’E may be washed back aboard
by another big ’un,” said the bos’n.
“I’ve seen that ’appen afore to-day.”
In a ray of moonlight that illu-
mined the scene wanly now and
then between fleets of scudding
clouds, I watched the poor
fellow’s futile struggles pityingly,
but in an impersonal way and
quite, as it were, devoid of
nerve-stress, until suddenly, as
he was borne up on the crest of
a wave, I caught sight of his
terror-stricken face. Then, with
a frightful sinking sensation, I
realised that the doomed wretch was
myself.
“There y’are! What did I tell y’?”
exclaimed the bos’n presently as an-
other wave, a seventh probably, and there-
fore slightly more tremendous than the
six which had preceded it, washed the
drowning man back on board.
“There’s a hoodoo on this ’ere ship
beyond all doubt,” growled the bos’n
in a disgusted tone of voice. “Fancy
Biting the canvas.
Eyes aloft.
that feller bein’ washed back just as 1
thought we was well rid of ’im! Any-
thin’s likely t’ ’appen after that. It’s my
belief,” he added pessimistically, “that
we’re caught in the Hantartic Circle, in
which case we’ll just keep on a-goin
round and round as if we was on a
flamin’ giddy-go-round.”
FOR once he had used an adjective
correctly. There could be no doubt
whatever that the fire below was gain-
ing on us, despite the unremitting efforts
of the men at the pumps. Smoke was
now to be seen in several places filtering
through the hatch-covers, and a new and
this time delectable odor enveloped the
whole ship, a fragrance indeed, as we
had been subsisting upon biscuits satu-
rated with salt water for several weeks,
almost sufficient to have caused a mutiny.
The fire had reached a consignment
of onions stored in the fore hold.
The sea seemed to me
to be moderating some-
what ; the wind-squalls
to be diminishing in
velocity and strength.
“I think she might
stand upper tops’ls and
perhaps even the main
to’g’n’s’l again now,
bos’n,” I said.
“Mind y’r own busi-
ness, which is peelin’
them there spuds,” he
growled irascibly, “and
leave the brainwork of
navigatin’ this ’ere ship
to y’r superiors.”
The “clank, clank,
clanking” of the pumps went on
without intermission.
“ ’Ow often ’ave I gotter remind
y’ that you’re not even a seaman’s
bootlace?” exclaimed the bos’n
peevishly.
“I also think it would be a good
idea to hoist our number and a fire-
signal,” I remarked, as though I had
not heard him. “And perhaps it
would be advisable,” I added, “to
provision the boats as well, for it
seems to me that we may have to
abandon ship before long.”
“Our number’s up already, in my
opinion,” grunted the bos’n —“especi-
ally yours.”
“Have you sounded the well lately,
by the way?” I inquired.
“Git on with peelin’ them per-
taters, which is all yTe fit for!” he
snarled. “And for Gord’s sake stop
maggin’ to y’rself and me about sea-
farin’. It absolutely sickens me.
And take that sailor* suit off, too,
next time y’ go below,” he added
wrathfully. “The sight o’
y’ is enough t’ give a man
the bellyache! ”
He wore a battered old
bowler hat himself, and in
all other respects his
appearance did not har-
monise with his vocation
or environment in the
least. He might quite
easily, in fact, have been
mistaken for a jobbing gardener, but, as
anything I said seemed to aggravate him,
I thought it best to refrain from pointing
this out.
The wind fell rapidly until there was
scarcely enough left to maintain steerage
way. We had a bad list to starboard.
There was still a heavy swell running,
and, as though our plight was not already
so perilous as to well-nigh impair belief


HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“VENGEANCE BY PROXY,
by
W. D. FLANNERY.
Stuart drijstal
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold.
Sole representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. WAHLERS & Co.,
3x7-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
i
by
■
l
Two tempers are better
than one . .
W.
YET SOFT STEEL HERE
ALLOWS THE BLADE
TO BEND TO THE
RAZOR.
Electrically-tempered Blue Gillettes have proved
that blades with two tempers shave better and
last longer. The steel at the sides of these new
blades is super-hard, yet the special process
which softens the centre does not affect those
hard edges in any way. Therefore, whilst the
harder steel at the edges can be honed to a
wonderful degree of keenness, the soft steel at
the centre still permits the blade to bend to the
razor without cracking. Result-better shaves
and more shaves per blade.
PACKET OF FIVE, 2/-
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
HARDER STEEL
HERE THAN EVER
BEFORE —TAKES A
MUCH KEENER
EDGE.
in the possibility of some stroke of
good fortune occurring in time to
alleviate it, fog, dank, impenetrable, all
pervasive, eerie, now descended upon
file ship.
So hot had the fo’c’sle and deck be-
come that the watch below were glad of
the relief afforded by spending it aloft
instead, and even more so, quite apart
from the heat, as it enabled them to get
as far away as possible from still an-
other and, this time, most appalling
stench that, because there was so little
air stirring to thin it
out or waft it else-
where, hung about
the ship, adhering to
every part of her
and, seemingly, to
the fog as well.
Sore though our
many other trials
had been, they
paled, if one was to
judge from the bad
language it occa-
Caught in the Hantartic Circle.
sioned, into insigni-
ficance compared with this abominable
smell, which intimated that sacks of
glue included among the cargo were being
incinerated.
Neither sun nor stars had been visible
for weeks past. “Where were we?” I
wondered uneasily.
lust then it seemed I heard bells
chiming. So far away it seemed, so
muffled by distance and the fog, that
one might have imagined that the chim-
ing came from some cathedral under the
sea.
“ ‘Bos’n, I hear the sound of bells ; oh,
say what may it be?’ The line, or one
very like it, occurs, I think, in ‘The
Wreck of the Hesperus.’ ”
“Never ’card of ’er,” said the bos’n.
“What was she?”
“A schooner,” I replied.
“She was probably a brig, if you say
she was a schooner,” he growled, his
The planking was so
hot.
voice and glance
saturated with
scepticism; “or
she may have
been a barquen-
t in e. You
wouldn’t know
the difference,
anyway. What
run was she on?
I don’t suppose
you remember
that?”
“No,” I said, “I
don’t.”
“Of course not.
You couldn’t be
expected to. You’ve got a memory like
a sieve, and your ’ead’s that chock-full
o’ nonsense there’s no room for nothin’
else in it. You’re ’opeless, you are.”
“I’m certain I heard bells, neverthe-
less,” I said.
“I’m not surprised at that,” replied
the bos’n. “They was ringin’ in your
own ’ead—that’s why you ’card ’em.
You’re goin’ barmy, that’s what’s up with
you.”
“We are close inshore. I’m convinced
of it,” I said. “I believe I saw a clump
of grass go by in the wash just now. I
think it would be a good idea to wear
ship while there is breeze enough to
enable us to do it; and, in any case, we
should be taking soundings.”
“Will you stop tryin’ t’ interfere with
the navigatin’ of this ship, or will 1
’ave t’ git t’ y’ with a belayin’-pin?” he
exclaimed furiously. “You know no
more about sailorisin’ than them drowned
’ens in that coop over yonder. Gord!
You sicken me! Git on with peelin’
them spuds, will y’, and take that sea-
gull’s feather out o’ y’r ’at, too, or I’ll
be ’ad up for murder on the ’igh seas!”
SCARCELY had he finished lavishing a
string of the most odious epithets upon
me than, the fog thinning somewhat, we
suddenly caught sight of tall cliffs tower-
ing above us, seeming no further away
indeed than a few hundred feet.
“All hands wear ship!” bellowed the
bos’n like a wounded bull
The men leapt to the braces and
hauled as only men will when their lives
and the safety of their floating home are
at stake, but it was too late. We were
so close to the cliffs that they had cut
off completely what little wind remained,
and the Squidge, now unmanageable and
slewed broadside on by the inflowing
tide to the giant waves that pounded her,
was rapidly being hurried to her doom.
The bos’n turned on me ferociously,
the glint of madness in his eyes.
“Now, you’ve gone and done it!” he
snarled. “This is what comes o’ your
ceaseless maggin’ about things you know
nothin’ whatsoever about. I always knew
you was a lonah! It serves me right tor
lettin’ y’ stay aboard. I should ave
’eaved y’ straight back again when that
big sea returned y’.”
“It would be useless to lower the boats,
even supposing we had time, and most
of them weren’t stove in,” I remarked
despondently. “They would be cracked
like eggshells against the jagged rocks.
Nor would the anchors be likely to hold
in such a sea, either. So inextricable, I
added politely, “so alarming is our
present predicament,
so fraught with
potential conse-
quences of a calami-
tous nature, and so
cold the water in
these uncongenial
regions, too, that it
would be a good
idea to lay all hands
aft and splice the
main brace again.”
The bos’n did not
appear to have
heard me. He was busily searching for
something. I knew what for—a belaying-
pin. I had, however, unnoticed by him,
taken the precaution of throwing all the
belaying-pins overboard, and the marline-
spikes as well.
The impending catastrophe had, I fear,
unhinged the poor fellow’s mind.
Crash !
It was the end then. We were about
to founder. But, no! It was only the
man next door, one of those clumsy indi-
viduals who cannot do anything without
making a great deal of noise, returning
a kerosene-tin bucket he had borrowed.
In all probability he had slipped and
fallen with it.
“Clank, clank, clank.”
A loose sheet of iron on the roof.
When one lives in a rickety old hut
on the seashore and one’s bunk is made
of driftwood and canvas picked up on
the beach, one has these sea-dreams
sometimes.
The Log of an Old Shellback.
I’ve crossed a lance with the God of
Chance,
And parried his thrusts with a smile,
As I dabbled in sin when the wine was in,
In the proper sailor style.
I’ve shortened sail in a howling gale
When bucking the Cape Horn seas;
And tarried a spell at the gates of
hell
When I drained the cup to the lees.
I’ve basked awhile in the sunny smile
Of a dusky South Sea maid
Who sang of love like a crooning dove
While the breeze in the palm-trees
played.
I’ve heard the cry when sea-birds fly
Over a lone lagoon;
And shivered with fright on an eerie
night
At the size of a tropic moon.
I’ve felt the beat of the driving sleet
Sear my sodden soul
When I tumbled out at the bos’n’s
shout
In the beam of a North Sea roll.
I’ve torn my nails out clewing sails
Stiff with southern ice,
And felt at their worst the pangs of
thirst
From a night of Dago vice.
I’ve taken my knocks in foreign docks,
Nor asked who was wrong or right,
In a quayside brawl, a free-for-all,
Or a bully two-man fight.
I’ve dipped my flag to a blowsy hag
When running my easting down;
For courtesy is a law of the sea —
The star in a sailor’s crown.
I enjoyed myself when I had the pelf
And grinned when cash was low;
For let me say it’s the only way
That a sailorman can go.
But, all the same. I’ve played the
game,
Though you call me a drunken sod;
So I’m not afraid or a bit dismayed
To make my peace with God.
MAORILAND.
EDWIN SINEL.


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
lit FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
% p
w ' 4/ ■%/
I 1/
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
HE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
£
o
15
k:
o
1
*
m
&
m
m
O
o
2
o
Letters of Credit issued by the National Bank
of Australasia Ltd. are honoured in every
corner of the world and, unquestionably,
provide the most convenient and safest way
by which to secure funds when travelling or
abroad. The Bank’s world-wide organiza-
tion and standing enable it not only to render
this particular service, but to assist, in a
very practical way, on all such matters as
the establishment of Credits overseas, the
provision of friendly co-operation, and ex-
perienced counsel on all problems connected
with Exports, Imports, Trade, and Finance
generally.
d
7U NATIONAL BAM
ia jQsnliecL
Branches Throughout Australia
9/12/36
k i nr m
Mi
M.
I
m
-A
( * if
f Id
>m.
j\
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways,
On your next trip to "England, travel
one way via “The Cape’ ’ and spend a
chart holiday in South Africa,
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Out of the Past:-
Murder in BarracK Street.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A FULL moon was sailing towards
the top of a cloudless sky over
Sydney as Sergeant Arran, of H.M.
63rd Regiment (the West Sulfolks), left
Darling Harbor and turned in the direc-
tion of the barracks in George-street,
whose long ranges of buildings loomed
blackly on the skyline a little to the
north-east. Into King-street he walked,
and climbed slowly up the hill, presently
moving across York-street into Barrack-
street.
The sergeant—a good-looking, athletic
man of the type a uniform becomes—had
been to see the steam-packet depart for
the Hunter River. Usually, the William
the Fourth began her voyage about 7
p.m., but to-night, because the mails were
late, her big paddles had not begun to
churn the water until after half-past eight.
He had hardly got half-way down the
hill when a tremendously startling thing
occurred. Busy with his own thoughts,
it was over before he realised it was
happening.
As he turned into Barrack-street the
crash and rattle of the drums within
the walls began to beat tattoo. The
deafening noise, echoing back from the
long range of buildings, drowned all
other sounds. The short street was
empty, save for one pedestrian—a tall,
slimly-built gentleman in a tall hat who
was walking towards him.
Suddenly, the approaching man threw
his arms in the air and fell backwards.
Sergeant Arran ran forward and
stooped over the prostrate man, then
recoiled back against the barrack-wall
in amazement. He flattened his body
against the wall and glared down at
the upturned face of the dead man,
clear-cut and handsome in the brilliant
moonlight, with wide-open eyes staring
up into the silvery beauty of that per-
fect summer night.
“Good God!” he muttered. “And me
just thinking of him, and praying it might
be so. Good God!”
THE body lay in the gutter at the side of
the roadway, with the right knee bent
and the foot twisted inwards beneath the
other leg. The white hands, on one of
which a diamond glinted in the moon-
light, rested on the flowered-satin waist-
coat, just below a dark bloodstain that
slowly grew and widened in a horrible
fashion.
About the middle of the narrow foot-
path a beaver top-hat—right side up,
as if it had been carefully placed there —
stood in solitary state, lending an air of
respectability and well-being to the sordid
and alarming tableau of murder. A sur-
prising distance away, over on the other
side of the road, lay the dead man’s
walking-stick, a highly-polished staff of
ebony with a big silver knob.
“ ’Tis George Murgatroyd, all right,”
murmured Sergeant Arran to himself as
he stared down at the body. “God! I
wish it had been me that done it! The
swine—the rotten swine!”
When the drums inside ceased their
uproar, as abruptly as they had begun, he
could still only stand there staring. It
was as if someone had hit him a blow
on the head and almost deprived him of
the power of moving or of thinking.
Perhaps for a whole minute he leaned,
paralysed, against the wall —and then the
sound of tramping feet coming down the
slope brought him to himself. It was
the picket marching back to barracks
with a few odd stragglers collected from
the public houses on “the Rocks.” They
came close to where he was, and as if in
a dream he heard the corporal cry,
“Halt!”
“Stiffen me!” exclaimed the man.
“What th’ hell’s all this?”
“He’s dead, I think, Smiley,” said Ser-
geant Arran. “Better pick him up—fall
out a file of your men —and we’ll take
him to the guardroom and send for the
police. There’s his walking-stick over
there—bring it with you. I’ll carry his
hat.”
“Gawd!” said the corporal hoarsely.
“The cove’s been shot. Here you two —
Jones, Bates —fall out and pick him up,
and carry him into barracks. This is a
rum go, sergeant. It wasn’t you done
it?” he added in a whisper, fearfully.
Sergeant Arran shook his head.
“I wish to God it had been!” he
growled. “No. No such luck!”
“Blime!” exclaimed Corporal Smiley.
“Gawd stiffen me!”
In the light of the big lantern that illu-
minated the whitewashed guardroom
by the barrack gates in George-street
it was possible to make a closer exam-
ination of the dead man, who was laid
out along a bench so that his arms hung
down on either side and his cutaway
coat of blue broadcloth, falling wide
open, revealed the great blot of blood.
It was guest night in the officers’ mess,
and Captain Christie, the adjutant, was
annoyed at having been called away.
So was Dr. Armitage.
“Damme, sergeant,” said the former
as he entered the guardroom, “don’t you
know that Sydney Barracks are not the
town deadhouse? What the devil in-
duced you to bring this fellow here?”
“I didn’t bring him, sir—’twas Ser-
geant Arran and the patrol what fetched
him in. But not being positive sure the
gentleman was dead, I thought it best to
send for the doctor, and to let you know,
sir.”
“Oh, you did, did you! Well, let’s
have a look at him. How is he, doctor
-—dead or living?”
“Oh, dead—dead as Julius Caesar,”
replied the surgeon, who had at once
proceeded to examine the corpse.
“Couldn’t be any more defunct. Shot —
clean through the heart. Must have died
immediately. Nothing to be done for
him—except to bury him. However,
that’s not our funeral, Christie. I’d ad-
vise you to send word of the affair to
the watch-house. The constables can
convey the body to the general hospital
in Macquarie-street. Dr. Bowman’s
fellows may have the pleasure of the
post-mortem —he’s no business of mine.”
“Damme —-he’s none of mine either,”
growled the adjutant. “How did you
come by this windfall, sergeant? Who
found the man’s body?”
“Sergeant Arran, sir—just outside the
south wall, in Barrack-street.”
“Arran!” said the adjutant. “Why,
how did you come to find it. Sergeant
Arran? Did you see the shooting?”
“I saw the man fall, sir—but I didn’t
see who fired the shot, or even hear if.”
“Well, but how was that? If you
saw him fall, surely you heard the report
of the firearm that did the mischief?”
“The drums had just struck up the
tattoo, sir, as I turned into Barrack-
street, and the noise must ha’ drowned
the report, I heard no shot—only saw
him throw up his arms and fall back-
wards into the gutter. I ran up to him,
but he never moved a muscle, and
seemed to me to be quite dead. I turned
out of York-street, sir—and I think the
shot must have come from behind me.
He was coming towards me.”
“What d’ye say to that, Armitage?”
The adjutant turned to the surgeon. “Was
he shot from in front?”
“Oh, undoubtedly, Mr. Adjutant. The
bullet must have struck him in the
thorax, just over the heart, and passed
clean through it. It came out his back,
below the shoulder-blade. Here, I’ll
show you.”
“Thank you,” said the adjutant hastily,
“I’ll take your word for it. Sergeant
Tracey”—he spoke to the sergeant of
the guard—“send a man to the watch-
house, down in George-street, to tell the
chief constable. He’d better bring a
stretcher, or some other means of re-
moving the body. We don’t want it
here. ’Tis no concern of ours. I sup-
pose you’d better send for me when the
police come. ’Tis a damned nuisance, but
there’s no help for it. And you’d better
stay here, Sergeant Arran —of course,
they’ll want to hear your story. By the
way, where had you been?”
“I’d been down to Barker’s Wharf,
sir, to see the Newcastle packet away.
She was late in starting. I had a friend
who was going to Hunter’s River to-
night, sir.”
“Oh, well, you’d better wait here for
the constables. They’ll want to know all
about it. Send across to the mess when
they come, Sergeant Tracey. Come
along, doctor —let’s get back to our wine.
’Twill be an hour, at least, before these
dawdling fellows come from the watch-
house.”
ALL through a hot summer day, Chief
Justice Forbes presided over the trial
of Sergeant William Arran, charged with
the wilful murder of George Murga-
troyd —those who are curious about it
may read the three columns of closely-
set type in which the “Sydney Herald"
of November 25, 1832, fully reports what
was the sensation of the year in Sydney.
The court was thronged with people


1
I .
remove FILM this special way
Science issues a warning . . . that the fate of your
teeth may rest on what you do to remove film! Dare
you risk ineffective methods when film may lead to
such serious consequences? Can you afford to trust
precious tooth enamel to any but a special film-remov-
ing dentifrice?
21 years ago a group of men discovered a scientific
fact known to comparatively few— that film should
he removed if teeth are to be kept clean and sound,
if gums are to remain healthy.
A special formula was devised. Since then it has been
constantly improved with one thought in mind: to
remove film safely. To-day, Pepsodent is known as
the "special film-removing tooth paste.” It has been
proved unexcelled in the way it removes the film that
glues decay germs to teeth. Millions know how it
polishes teeth to natural brilliance. Other dentifrices
may promise film-removing action. But are they
equally effective? Can these other kinds remove film
with the same safety?
Pepsodent is SAFE —effective
In fair and unbiased laboratory tests, it was shown
that Pepsodent’s special polishing material was the
softest—and therefore safest ... of 15 leading tooth
pastes and 6 leading tooth powders. Pepsodent con-
tains no grit, nothing to harm the teeth.
Use Pepsodent Tooth Paste twice a day, see your
dentist at least twice a year.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
w
m
bn
tig.!
NEW
OLD
TUBE
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have
cut costs and we are
passing the saving on
to you. The identical
time-proved Pepsodent
is ready for you in
the ■ new larger tubes
at no increase in price.
N 1366
The new twin lens reflex camera! It’s an
unparalleled achievement at its price, with
every detail a masterpiece.
Automatic focussing hood with powerful mag
nifier enables you to guarantee the perfect
sharpness of your future picture.
£ll
Rapid film changing means not a picture
missed.
•
One-lever Compur Shutter, with speeds to
l/300th second, stops fastest movement —dead!
•
Largest of all “small-camera” sizes! Most
economical in use—makes possible much
bigger enlargements. Square size (2i x 2J)
automatically increases your percentage
of successful pictures.
•
Rolleicord is the camera you’ll be
really happy with—offers you much
more than its price suggests.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OR CALL FOR
DEMONSTRATION.
PRICE, with f/4.5 Zeiss
Triotar Anastigmat . .
With f/3.8 Lens
£l3/10/-
Of all Harringtons Dealers and
HoW ins**®?
SYDNEY .... MELBOURNE - - - - BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE - - - ADELAIDE - - - KATOOMBA
representing every grade of society in
the colony from the Governor down.
Extraordinary public interest had
manifested itself in the career of the late
George Murgatroyd, Esquire, wealthy
and idle “man about town” in London,
friend of the late King during the
Regency and afterwards, voluptuary,
libertine, traveller in strange places, and
reputed to be about to settle on the land
in New South Wales in a fashion that
was said to be princely in its extrava-
gance.
Only three aspects of the evidence con-
cern us here, and they are very damning
aspects, which no jury could have put
aside or no Judge have refrained from
quoting against the prisoner in his sum-
ming up.
Major J. T. Morisset, who had been
for several years Commandant at New-
castle, and was then Superintendent of
Police in Sydney, had deposed that,
being at the George-street watch-house
when the message came from the bar-
racks on the night of the murder, he had
accompanied the district constable to the
guardroom. Almost immediately several
circumstances had led him to suspect
Sergeant Arran of the crime, and he had
ordered his arrest and caused him to be
taken to the watch-house. Here he had
been searched, and the pistol produced—
one of a pair of duelling weapons—
which had been recently discharged, was
found on the person of Sergeant Arran
when his pockets had been turned out.
Further, the sergeant had admitted, in
a voluntary statement, that he had been
acquainted, and on very bad terms, with
the deceased in England. Then the cor-
poral of the picket which, marching
back to barracks with defaulters, had
come on Sergeant Arran beside the body
of the deceased stated that the sergeant
had seemed much agitated, and had ex-
pressed gratification at the death of
Murgatroyd. Surgeon Armitage, of H.M.
63rd Regiment, together with Dr. James
Mitchell, of the general hospital, who had
conducted a post-mortem examination
of the body of deceased, had both testi-
fied that the wound which had caused
death could have been made by a bullet
of the calibre of the pistol found upon
Sergeant Arran.
After a summing-up unfavorable to
the prisoner by the Chief Justice, the
jury, having retired for but a brief in-
terval, returned a verdict of guilty.
In passing sentence, his Honor Mr. Jus-
tice Forbes had described the finding
of the jury as entirely just, and after
commenting again on the weakness of
that part of the accused’s defence in
which he had accounted for the pistol
by saying that he had taken it to the
Newcastle packet in order to present it
to his friend who was going to settle in
the Hunter River district, and had for-
gotten to hand it to him, and that its
recent discharge was owing to his having
tested it that afternoon and not having
since cleaned it, had described the murder
as one of callous and bloodthirsty ven-
geance. Even if the deceased had run
off with his wife some years before, this
did not entitle Sergeant Arran to exact
so fearful a revenge. He then sen-
tenced the accused to death, holding out
to him no hope of mercy.
SO that was how this curious business
stood on the evening of December 5,
the time of Sergeant Arran’s execution
having been arranged for nine o’clock
on the following morning, at the back of
the gaol in George-street.
It was late at night when a loud and
insistent hammering upon the closed
gates of the barracks caused the sentry
in front of the guardroom to open the
little wicket door and thrust his head out
into George-street, angrily demanding
what might be the matter. As he made
his wrathful inquiry he was joined by
the sergeant of the guard—the same Ser-
geant Tracey who had been on duty
when Major Morisset had arrested Ser-
geant Arran.
“What th’ devil’s th’ trouble?” de-
manded the sergeant. “We ain’t deaf.
What d’ye want?”
“I want to see Colonel Hoskins,” said
the late visitor. “I must see him.”
“Why, damme,” swore the sergeant,
“this ain’t no time for to come a-callin’
on th’ C. 0., and, anyway, he don’t live
in barracks. Ye won’t find him here.
Wait till to-morrow, and call at his house
in Phillip-street. Strike me dead, man,
ain’t ye got no sense?”
The man shoved his way in through
the wicket and stared at the sergeant for
a moment or two before he spoke again.
They noticed that he was very pale, and
that his face streamed with perspiration,
which he wiped nervously with a red
bandanna handkerchief. His mouth was
gaping, and his hand shook as he dabbed
at his features.
“Look ye, sergeant,” he said suddenly,
“ ’twas me that killed the man they re
going to hang your Sergeant Arran over
in the morning. That’s what I want to
tell the colonel.”
“What!” gasped Sergeant Tracey.
“You done what?”
“I killed him. I’ve come to tell ’em
so —so that Bill Arran won’t hang. Now
will ye get someone —someone who can
move in the matter immediate? What
about the adjutant?”
There was a tense silence for a few
moments as Sergeant Tracey stared in
amazement at the man before him. Then
he gave the sentry an order.
“Put your head inside the guardroom
and call one of ’em out,” he commanded.
The sentry obeyed, and presently a sleepy
soldier emerged.
“Look ye, Jimmy,” the sergeant
charged him, “go to Captain Christie’s
quarters and wake him up. Tell him
’tis something ter’ble ser’ous, and Ser-
geant Tracey’d be obliged if he’d come
to th’ guardroom at once. A matter o’
life an’ death, tell him. Say a fellie's
come here who says ’twas him who killed
the cove they’re a-goin’ for to hang pore
Bill Arran over. D’ye see? Hurry now!
Come into th’ guardroom, you. I dunno
what y’r game is—but it’s a chance ye’re
right in th’ head, an’ mebbe ’tis a hope
for pore Bill. Come into th’ light till
I look at ye.”
SEVEN weeks later Sergeant Arran
halted an escort of twelve soldiers out-
side Sydney Gaol, stood them at ease,
and waited for a batch of prisoners which
he was to see safely embarked upon the
Governor Phillip brig, the transport
which would carry them to a living death
on Norfolk Island. Presently the prison
gate opened, and the gang of convicts,
wearing double irons, shuffled out into
George-street. At a signal from the ser-
geant four of the soldiers took up a posi-
tion at the head of the dejected column,
four more arranged themselves on either
side, and another section covered the
rear. At the word of command, given by
Sergeant Arran on the nod of Tom
Norton, the gaoler, who walked behind
it, the melancholy procession began its
slow progress towards Sydney Cove.
So slow and painful was the despairing
march of the unwilling voyagers that it
was more than half an hour before they
arrived at the waterside. Here they
were halted on the wharf, whilst the
gaoler and the officer in command of
the escort that was to sail with the
prisoners in the brig completed the busi-
ness of checking the personnel of his
Majesty’s passengers to the dreaded place
of banishment. There was hardly a man
among them who did not consider that
he was taking his last look at Sydney
Town.
“Bill —Bill Arran!” the sergeant heard
a hoarse whisper as he strolled round
the flank of the miserable parade. “Bill,
don’t ye know me?”
Arran turned and looked at the man
who had addressed him from the ranks
of the prisoners. It was the fellow whose
confession had saved him from the gal-
lows. He started when he saw him, and
then put out his hand.
“Lookye, Bill,” the other whispered
again as he grasped the sergeant’s fingers,
“it never came out in court why I shot
that fellie Murgatroyd—an’ you don’t
know, neither. Well, ’twas because he
ran away with your wife. That’s why
I done it. The swine, he left her
to die o’ misery in Paris. They
reprieved me yesterday, and I’m for
the Island. Damn them —they might ha’
let me hang, and I’d ha’ been better
pleased. When I shot him from Fat
Moll’s place in Barrack-street I hoped
you’d be blamed, for I don’t like sojers.
An’ then I lamed you had been her
husband —an’ I couldn’t let it go. I
couldn’t let you hang—so that’s how it
was. Well, I’ve done one decent thing,
anyway, before I go to hell.”
The sergeant stared at him in wonder
as he stood shuffling his feet to ease the
drag of the heavy irons. The man was
a hangdog fellow, he thought—a typical
“old lag” who had had most of the
humanity knocked out of him by “the
System.” Strange that he should have
shown so much decency in the matter
of saving him from the hangman’s rope!
Yet you never knew what these fellows
were liable to do —you never could tell.
Presently he asked him a question.
“But, man alive, what had you to do
with it? What was it to you that Mur-
gatroyd ran off with my missus?”
“Lookye, Bill Arran,” the shackled
wretch cringed. “It don’t matter now to
none of us, I was her lover, too.”


THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
inti
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, w/ M FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
MACMILLAN
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
IMPORTANT
ANNOUNCEMENT
of the complete sets of 12 vols.
at a greatly reduced price.
Price £5 SS.5 S.
GOLDEN BOUGH
A Study in Magic and Religion
Third Edition, revised and enlarged,
By SIR JAMES FRAZER, O.M.
Prices of the Volumes if bought
separately:
Part I. The Magic Art and the
Evolution of Kings.
2 vols. 25 s.
11. Taboo and the Perils of
the Soul. 1 2s. 6d.
111. The Dying God.
12s. 6d.
IV. Adonis, Attis, Osiris.
2 vols. 25 s.
V. Spirits of the Corn and
of the Wild. 2 vols.
255.
VI. The Scapegoat. 1 2s. 6d,
VII. Balder the Beautiful:
The Fire-Festivals of
Europe and the Doctrine
of the External Soul.
2 vols. 25 s.
VIII. (Vol. XII). Biblio-
graphy and General
Index. 255.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2
fd
fd
fd
f
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle ' .12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Qualitv Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PEILM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., sin. and iin.
blades, 3/8 post free.
CRAIG & AIXKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black. 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
AU post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, |in. and }in.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keot in order lot two
Tears free of charge.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A ’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.M.: We keep a special hanky for stories
which end in “In death she had grown beauti-
ful” J.M.R.: You must have been stuck for
a rhyme when you made the Commonwealth
Prime Minister observe, apropos of vanishing
depression, “Gone is the werewolf sinister.”
. ...H.L.V.: The whole thing makes little
appeal, and contains too many awkward lines
such as
Not sorely, but painless as the decease of an autumn
day.'
. ...M.S.S.: The jumbled result of reading
sentimental tales 8.W.: It certainly had the
virtue of brevity G.L.: Off the track
Eros: Too architectural for poetry... .A.J.S.:
Not enough in it A.J.H.: Only worth a
par E.G.R.: Not suitable... .A.W.L.A.:
There’s more in it than appears at first glance,
but it isn’t a winner... .S.R.: And then what?
R.E.H.: No strength in them J.R.P.:
You might be able to place it elsewhere,
There’s music in it....E.G.: Not quite....
1.A.J.: Yarn unconvincing, and verses cover
old ground.... E.G.W.: Still misses... .T.D.:
Hopeless in its unreality... .H.S.F.; A long
way off E.H.H.: All miss G.R.McC.:
The plot seems transplanted from an Indian
setting, and the mechanism is not of the best
K.A.J.: The Impossible Man” was well
placed in such an impossible yarn... .M.H.W.:
None of the batch rang the be 11.... Emel:
Still on the outer J.0’8.: We feel there’s
some deep tragedy behind it, but can’t quite
decide what. . L D.McK.: You clearly do
presses us E.R.R.: The best bits were the
dollar signs between the verses... .L.G.
I wa.N prompted by a consequential turn of thought
To glance upon the golden orb that kept this scene
alive.
You might try a less inconsequential
prompter E.F.: One over-ponderous, the
other too staccato. Try something midway....
N.C. (Melb.): If you are prepared to pay for
seeing your verse in book form, go ahead—
but don’t expect to get your money back
8.E.; Tad’s love-story brought forth no tears.
... .T.McG.: Hasn’t sufficient general inter-
est... .D.P.: Uneven ; try again... .A.F.:
We’ve met those particular eyes too often....
A.C.H.: Not far 0ff.... K.McC.; Engineer-
selector on his way back to the bush
K. 8.: Quite good of its kind, but not suitable,
. ....C.K.: Rather too 10ng.... S. A.H.: The
reader would give up the attempt to separate
aj.c f sSr* S %Tn ! , rV°S m S‘ S paV t
us in an Immelman turn, but nosedived into
the basket....D.B.: The play is poor; words
are inadequate to describe the verse....
R.E.W.J.: If there’s anything new to be
written about plumbers you haven’t hit on it.
. ...F.H.: They reminded us of Wordsworth
—when at his worst... .R.C.: You might try
the first article with a Melbourne paper; forget
about the others... .E.A.J.: That’s not a gag.
It’s a short story G.R.C.: Off our beat
M.0.R.: Still a bit below par R.W.; Not
quite... .GidyeA Pod: Manuscript received
safely... .C.0.W.: It might be worse, but it
would have to be a lot better before getting
past....A.V.N.: “The Elusive Boundary”
failed to reach the border-line... .P.M.: We’re
not much interested in pirates and their Creole
girls... .J.H.S.; It doesn’t make a 1i1t....
J.W.: You pitch your note a bit too high,
Incidentally, Forrest cannot be said to have
“crossed the burning plains” of Nullarbor; his
expedition kept pretty close to the sea
E.L.: “Enclosed please find a humorous
poem.” Nothing in the envelope remotely
answering to that description.—L.K.S/ _lt
doesn’t rise above the commonplace.. . .L.C.B. :
Tale of the callow youth’s unrequited love
left us unmoved... .J.A.D.: The characters an
their actions are unreal.. . .S.P.L.: Nothing
in the burst of beery cynicism... .Tilhcum.
That broadcast put a marcel in the ether waves.
L.T.: Nicely written, but the theme is
too slight for a sketch. Keep the style up
and try it on something more meaty .:
Parts are good, but the beginning and end
are weak... .R.St.G.: It didn’t miss by much,
. ...D.8.: The construction is contused,
though the style is snappy enough; get on
to a clear-cut p10t... .J.R.: .The miraculous
lottery on the heels of the decision to steal the
jewels and save the invalid mother—-away
with it!....80P: Not sufficient in that sketch.
...1.R.; Midget story not up....K.1.:
“Rabbit Stew” didn’t have enough seasoning.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONULIN ta.
F. 8.: Cannot see you climbing much higher
w j th out lessons... .P.R.: Generous of you to
take sole responsibility for the masterpiece sub-
mto. M.T f: tat » state .hat we -M
Jf . coming. ...H.G.. T .
‘hatter is now babbling to the other inmates
°I the w.p.b L.S.: No market here °r
used gags. .. . A.D.: Jagged linework and
crazy perspective... .J.T.: Ah! The arrival
of that old-timer heralds the approach of
Easter S.S.: A pair of fashion-plate figures
swapping tame remarks... .H.M.W.: Outburst
gainst the Demon Drink shou i d have been
t t nrohibitionist iournal A.R.G.:
~ . a piot ? IIT . iT„i t u„ ri mind
Ho P Pioneered The Heathen in His Bhnd
ness,’ and drew canmba s 10 times more
cannibalistic... .J.R.8.: Take more care, and
think out brighter gags... .C.H.: What are
they—porpoises or fat ladies swimming?
And where is the joke? N.S.: We are con-
tinually shooing those backyard squabblers off
j be premises... .T.C.: It may be a pleasure
t but it gave deep pain to U5 ....H.Y.:
Our accountant won", get writers cramp soib-
hfing your name on cheques.... . ••
Clumsily put together to illustrate a jest that
is too old to work C.M.F.: Close inspec-
tion wasn’t needed to discover its faults
L. 8.; Not a laugh among the dozen
T.H.D.: How do you do them? With a shoe-
horn dipped in sheepdip? ... .P.M.: Salt tears
fell on the awful mess you made of a noble
beer tankard... .0.J.: Dance orchestra appears
to be a mural decoration E.W.: Too many
labels and signposts... .S.C.: It’s a toss-up
whether your art or your humor is the more
hopeless... .R.K.: Use a slightly broader nib
and a paper with a smoother surface
W.H.D.: No use for colored drawings
R.P.: Conversation between two prawn-heads
did not appeal... .A.J.J.; Ended on the reject
pile.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Devil’s Peak”: A cable states that it
has been decided to fortify Robben
Island as part of a scheme to make Cape
Town a second Singapore. Many Aus-
tralians will recall seeing the barren
rock—then a leper station, plus a light-
house—as their transports passed in and
out of Table Bay during the Boer War.
Fortifications and docks in Table Bay are
mentioned as the rest of the project. The
Boer Nationalists, always bitterly opposed
to the British occupation of the naval
dockyard at Simonstown (though this is
provided for in the Union Constitution)
must have undergone a change of heart
if they are willing for Britain to take
on the costly job, and even with the gold
of the Rand behind it the Union Govern-
ment could hardly face the task. The
scheme would mean the entire closing-
in of Table Bay with breakwaters, since
in certain winds it is a dangerous road-
stead
*
“Dingo” : The bullying cook (B.
26/2/’36) doesn’t always get things his
own way. Struck one in the A.I.F. who
always treated the mob to shearers’ soup.
A few of the chaps dropped round
to his hut to give him a candid opinion
about it, and were gently carried back,
convinced that they liked it after all.
Slushy, carried away with his victories,
announced vaingloriously, after a particu-
larly tasty slew! that he had boiled an
ancient enemy’s boots in it. An investi-
gation committee raked the shrunken
clodhoppers out of the dixie, and,
though it stopped short of boiling him
with the trilbies, the lesson that “bah”
had was decidedly discouraging.
ts * * *
“Jeffo”: When in California recently I
was taken over the Redwood Lumber
Co.’s mills and forests, and, of course,
was shown the “highest” tree in the
world, 375 ft. The boys would not be-
lieve me when I told them that it was
a sapling compared with some of ours,
which go over 500 ff. In their office was
a copy of Muller’s work, which proved
me to be right. Years ago when the
dad was managing a Tasmanian sawmill
he cut an order for the British Admiralty
for piles 200 ft. long and 2ft. square. The
trees those piles were cut from must
have had a girth of over 10ft. at, say,
220 ft. from the ground ; and that order
was not one or two, but a shipload!
* * * *
“Ta’Bolek”; Down on a coral atoll
in the Indian oce an we had a fine lot of
p orkers ; they had the run of the island,
and many had been made pets of by the
staff Two Berkshires in particular were
f aV orites-every morning these two
? , . T s f ~
inseparables would do the round of the
quarters, waking each man by the mser-
tlon mt ° net °f a co^
n ° se > b ana uas. Aftei an
a-bsence of eighteen months in another
Asian station I returned to the atoll,
During my absence a strong fence ha
been run across portion of the island,
and the pigs were confined there. Within
that period they had become man-eaters.
jq 0 Malay was game to land on that por-
don G f beach, and we chaps on spearing
expeditions kept well out on the barrier,
The Chow coolie whose job it was to
k ju a pjg each week for the mess finally
mutinied. The boars would attack at
the sight of a human, even the two
Berkshires joining in the hunt.
* * * *
~ ™ j t:
. Colonel Bungstarter Dr. Clyde Fen-
l°n > Darwtn s flying doctor, is becoming
a rea l source of worry to Darwin s ofu-
cialdom. The man persists in doing
things, which is in itself undesirable from
the official viewpoint. His latest per-
formance has been to start on a single-
handed flight to China, to comfort his
mother, following the tragic death in
China of his only sister. Apparent!} he
left without filling in a single form or
even waiting the necessary few weeks to
get his income-tax clearance before he
undertook the heroic venture of crossing
the Timor Sea in the cyclone season m
a single-engined machine. Apart from
officials, every Australian will admire his
pluck.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV£, PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lcp.cn from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), .‘Dinner from 5.30 p.m., (Sunday, 5.45 p.m
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton. Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thU
I Sana offers .the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart fox the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot tas
Bulletin to hand. , . • ,
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (21), Vic., public school educa-
tion, five years’ exp. on land, wants job in
stock and station office or on Vic. sheep
property. Refs. —910.
Words of comic songs “Oh! I Suffered Grief
and Pain” and “I’m Not Supposed to Know
What I’m About.” —917.
Words of poem by Phil Moubray (“Scotty
the Wrinkler”) in which occurs the line:
’Twas hard to find a dry spot to cook a tommy-cake.
—9lB.
Information Sought.
(1) Is a license necessary to shoot crocodiles
in North Queensland ? (2) What type of rifle
is most suitable ? (3) Are crocodiles plentiful
in rivers entering the Gulf of Carpentaria, such
as the Mitchell, Staaten, Van Diemen, Nor-
man and Flinders ? (4) What equipment is
necessary ? (5) Is there an assured market
for properly-tanned skins ? (6) What are the
skins worth, on an average ? (7) Does the
market remain more or less stable, or is it
subject to fluctuations ? (8) Is it possible to
sell the skins at northern coastal towns, such as
Cairns, Townsville or Bowen ? (9) Name of
Queensland buyer? (10) Is the occupation
overcrowded in the area mentioned? (11) Are
the skins of aged crocodiles more valuable
than those of younger ones, and is the value
gauged by the size and quality of the skins,
or are they sold by weight, as are buffalo
hides ? —7lO.
(1) No. (2) .44 or .303. (3) Yes. (4) No
special equipment is necessary other than a
trap or yard erected for the capture of croco-
diles, which is considered more satisfactory
than shooting, as the skin is not damaged.
(5) It is understood that at present there is,
but as such skins are difficult to tan they
are mostly sold in the raw. (6) A good
quality skin is worth approximately £2; it is
difficult to state an average price. (7) This is
practically a new industry and the market is
more or less stable. (8) Markets outside
Brisbane are unknown. (9) So far as is
known the only purchaser is Frank L. Cox,
King-street, Brisbane. (10) Very little activity
in this direction. (11) Value is dependent on
size of skin and freedom from ossification and
damage through fighting and other causes. A
skin 40in. wide commands a more ready sale
than, say, one of 20in.
* * * *
(1) Is hypnotism an established science ?
(2) If so, where can proof be obtained ? (3)
Have surgical operations been performed under
hypnosis at hospitals; if so, where ? (4) What
is the difference (if any ) between mesmerism
and hypnotism ? —647.
(1), (2) and (3) From a medical standpoint,
hypnotism cannot be accepted as an estab-
lished science. In a small percentage of cases
anaesthesia can be induced by hypnotic sug-
gestion, but, although operations have been
performed under its influence, the difficulty
of “fixing” the degree of hypnosis restricts its
use in surgery. (4) The term mesmerism was
coined from the name of an Austrian physi-
cian (F. A. Mesmer, 1734-1815) ; it is now
a synonym for hypnotism. Mesmer fell into
disrepute, and his theory was discredited.
Later research, however, showed that the
phenomena he produced were due to the
action of suggestion; his method, shorn of its
charlatanry and modified according to scien-
tific principles, now forms the basis of hypnotic
technique.
Jfc H* Jfc
(1) Particulars of the origin and develop-
ment of the submarine ? (2) Particulars of the
British submarines used in the late war ? —B6B.
(1) The first under-water boat on record was
built by Cornelius van Drebbel in 1620. It
was made of wood covered with greased
leather, and was propelled by oars passing
through flexible sleeves. Air was supplied to
the crew by a pipe which led to the surface.
In 1775 Bushnell, an American, built the
Turtle, which had a double-oar action and
apparatus for sinking and rising. In 1800,
Fulton built a cigar-shaped copper submarine
boat called the Nautilus, which was propelled
by a hand-driven propeller. During the
American Civil War the Confederates used a
steam-driven submarine, and in 1888 an elec-
trically-driven craft of 30 tons displacement
was built for the French Navy. (2) “E”
class, of 800 tons, 1600 h.p., 10 and 15 knots.
“J” class, 1820 tons and 19 knots. “K” class,
2650 tons and 24 knots.
* * * *
(1) What is the Locarno Pact ? (2) What
is the position between Germany and France ?
(3) Between France and Italy ? (4) Italy and
the League ? (5) What is the political situa-
tion in Europe at present, and how are de-
velopments likely to affect Europe ? (6) Re-
lationship between France and the League ?
(7) Mr. Bruce’s part and Mr. Anthony Eden’s
part ? —892.
(1) The Treaty, signed in December, 1925,
consisted in essence of an interchange of
pledges between France, Germany and other
Powers interested in the Rhine to abstain from
war, Britain and Italy being joined as trustees.
The clauses of the Versailles Treaty forbid-
ding the fortification of the Rhineland by
Germany or its occupation by German troops
were reaffirmed. The Locarno Treaty paved
the way for Germany’s entrance to the
League of Nations and the withdrawal of
Allied troops from the Rhineland. (2) Lrance
calls upon the League of Nations (of which
it is a member) to compel Germany (no
longer a member) to observe the conditions ot
the Versailles and Locarno Treaties violated
by German military occupation of the Rhine-
land. Germany takes the position that it
is not bound by the Versailles Treaty, signed
under duress, and that it is entitled to re-
nounce the Locarno Treaty because France
has entered into a pact with Soviet Russia tor
mutual aid if attacked. (3) France, as a
member of the League of Nations, has been
compelled, though obviously unwillingly, to
join in the League’s censure of Italy in re-
spect to the invasion of Abyssinia. (4) Italy
is still a member of the League, but relations
are strained, and the application of sanctions
that would seriously hamper Italy’s war enort
might sever them altogether. (5) and (6)
Covered by the foregoing. Can’t make
prophecies. (7) Mr. Bruce is President of the
Council of the League ; Mr. Anthony Eden
is Britain’s Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs.
* * * *
(1) Origin and meaning of “Toe H” ? (2)
Approximate membership ? (3) Headquarters ?
—BBO.
(1) It is a peace-time development of Talbot
House, a soldiers’ club founded at Poperinghe,
Belgium, in Dec., 1915, by the Rev. P. B.
Clayton and the Rev. Neville Talbot. The
original plan of the house as chapel, club and
canteen was repeated in London after the war.
In 1922 it was incorporated by Royal Charter,
H.M. the King (then Prince of Wales) be-
coming its patron. Its main object is to break
down - the evils of class-consciousness as
summed up in the dicta: “To think fairly ;
to love widely; to witness humbly; to build
bravely.” Its symbol is a Lamp of Mainten-
ance, held by every full branch and lit at all
meetings. (2) About 30,000. (3) 47 Francis-
street, London, S.W.I.
* * * *
Names of books by Havelock Ellis, with the
cost and where obtainable in Sydney ? —787.
Some of his works, including the novel Kanga
Creek, are not catalogued, and the cost there-
fore cannot be ascertained; of the following
works, the prices given are approximate:
Affirmations, 95.; The Philosophy of Conflict
and Other Essays in Wartime, 9s. 6d.; A Study
of British Genius, 255. 6d.; The Task of
Social Hygiene, 95.; Little Essays of Love and
Virtue, 11s. 3d.; The Soul of Spam, 95.; The
New Spirit, 95.; Impressions and Comments,
first, second and third series, 9s. each; The
World of Dreams, 95.; The Dance of Life,
95.; Advent to Septuagesima, Is. 6d.; Confir-
mation Interviews, 7s. 6d.; Lights on the Path,
ss. 3d.; Man and Woman, 165.; My Confes-
sional, 11s. 3d.; New Horizon on Life and
Love, 7s. 6d.; Psychology of Sex, 195.; George
Chapman, 28s. 6d.; Life of James Hinton,
165.; Fountain of Life, 19s. 6d. A new four-
volume edition of the famous Studies in the
Psychology of Sex is being issued to sell at
approximately £4 45.; single volumes of the
work may be purchased separately. Ellis
also published a book of poems, Sonnets, with
Folk Songs from the Spanish, and a transla-
tion of Zola’s Germinal. Any of the larger
Sydney book stores should be able to obtain
such of these volumes as are here catalogued
and priced, but, with the exception of the
Studies in the Psychology of Sex, very few are
kept in stock.
* * * *
What are Newton’s laws of motion ? —950.
They were enunciated in Latin. A free trans-
lation is: 1. —“All bodies continue in a state
of rest or of uniform motion in a straight
line unless acted upon by some external force
that compels a change.” 2.—“ Every motion
or change of motion is proportional to the
acting force and takes place in the direction
of the straight line along which the force acts.”
(3). —“To every action there is always opposed
an equal and opposite reaction.”
* * * *
Is Louis Becke, the South Seas author, still
alive ? Also a few particulars regarding his
life ? —758.
George Louis Becke died February 18, 1913,
at Sydney. He was born on June 18, 1855,
at Port Macquarie (N.S.W.), his parents being
Bideford folk. With the exception of a short
period spent in a bank and on the goldfields,
he led an adventurous life in the Pacific, and
had an intimate knowledge of the islands.
J. F. Archibald first persuaded him to write
about his experiences in the South Seas, the
result being a series of stories contributed to
The Bulletin, By Reef and Palm, and later
books established his reputation overseas as
well as in his native country. He also con-
tributed largely to English and American maga-
zines. In collaboration with Walter Jeffery
he wrote a number of books dealing with early-
Australian history and the Pacific, including
The Mutineer, a tale based on the Bounty
mutiny.
* * * *
(1) What is the status of the late J. B.
O’Hara among Australian poets, and what are
the outstanding features of his Work ? (2)
Was “The Seven Seas” regarded as one of his
leading works ? (3) Is it correct that he was
a distinguished mathematician ? (4) Brief bio-
graphical details ? —407.
(1) Not in the front rank. His work is
smooth, gentle and reflective, with an element
of simple melody, but is never passionate or
profound. He is a fairly good craftsman, and
his verse throughout shows a sincere love of
nature, some of his happiest poems being
inspired by this emotion. The influence of
Swinburne, is clearly seen in his choice of verse
metres and rhythms. (2) The Seven Seas is
the title of one of Rudyard Kipling’s volumes
of collected verse. (3) and (4) O’Hara was
educated at Carlton College and at Ormond
College, Melbourne Uni., where he had a
distinguished career, winning with first-class
honors a Stawell Exhibition for Engineering
and Mathematics in 1882, and an Ormond Col-
lege scholarship in 1883. He graduated in
the School of Mathematics and Physics in
1885, and was appointed Lecturer in Mathe-
matics and Physics at Ormond College in 1886.
He was principal of the South Melbourne Col-
lege, which he founded, from 1889 to 1917.
He died March 31, 1927, at South Melbourne.
* , * * *
Where was Noel Coward born, and some
biographical details 7 —626.
Born Teddington, England, December 16,
1899. He was educated privately and at
Croydon, his first stage appearance being made
in 1910 at the Gaiety Theatre, Manchester.
He served for two years in the army, and on
his return to London again took up stage work,
but soon concentrated on writing. “The Rat
Trap,” written when he was 18, was his first
play; “I’ll Leave It to You,” produced in 1920
with the author in the lead, was a failure.
“The Young Idea” was his next play, followed
by “The Vortex” (1921), which had a very
successful run. Thirteen other plays, all more
or less successful, preceded “Cavalcade,” which
appeared in 1931.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Price Warung,
author of “Tales of the Convict System” ?
876.
Real name William Astley. He was born in
1855, and his stories of the convict system
were the result of 20 years’ study of early
Australian history. In addition to his first
book, Tales of the Convict System, he wrote
Tales of the Early Days, Tales of the Isle of
Death and Half-crown Bob. He left un-
finished a novel and a history of Australian
bushranging. As a journalist he was a strong
advocate of Federation. He died in 1911.
* * * *
(1) Where are criticisms of Henry Handel
Richardson’s “The Getting of Wisdom” to be
obtained 7 (2) What is your opinion of it ?
(3) Are any recent reviews available ? —869.
(1) The best criticism of it is contained in
Contemporary Women Writers, by F. S. P.
Eldershaw, in No. 4 of the Australian-English
Association Offprints. These are not for sale,
but might be obtainable from the secretary
of the Australian-English Association, H. M.
Butterley, 25 Hanna-street, Beecroft, N.S.W.
Other criticisms are contained in H. M. Green’s
An Outline of Australian Literature and
Gerald Gould’s The English Novel of To-day;
Gould considers it “the best of all contem-
porary school stories.” (2) Well written, but
never likely to be popular because the life
and characters described are unattractive and
not in the least typical. (3) There are no
recent reviews of any importance.
* H= * *
(1) Names of books on general carpentering
and frame buildings ? (2) Price, and where
obtainable ? —589.
(1) and (2) Light Buildings, by E. Lucas,
11s. 3d.; Complete Woodworker (Cassell’s
Handcraft Library), 135.; from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.
=H * * *
When the meteorological station at Willis
Island records a cyclonic disturbance develop-
ing in the Pacific Ocean, can that station de-
termine approximately where the centre of the
disturbance is ?■ —607.
Ap observer on Willis Island from his own
observations only could not determine the
exact position of a disturbance which might
be developing in the neighboring ocean
regions, although he might say that a storm
was developing in, or approaching from, a
certain direction. Reports from the Queensland
coast in the west and from a few places to the
east and north, and sometimes radio messages
from ships, all assist in determining the posi-
tion of storm-centres in that ocean area, and
the receipt of frequent reports thereafter is
the usual means of determining the course
which the storm is following. The Weather
Bureau at Brisbane receives all these reports,
and is the authority responsible for the advices
and warnings issued to the interests and locali-
ties concerned.
* * * *
(1) Name, length, tonnage and rig of the
chief vessels comprising the “grain fleet" 7 (2)
What would be the approximate cost (new) of
such a ship ? (3) Can they be bought second-
hand ? (4) Where ? (5) Probable cost 7 (6)
Crew required to work a ship of this size-
fa) full-rigged, (b) fore-and-aft rigged 7 —609.
(1) The grain fleet is comprised as under:
Herzogin Cecilie (3111 tons, 337 ft.), Archibald
Russell (2354 tons, 291 ft.), Ponape (2342 tons,
297 ft.), Viking (2670 tons, 294 ft.), Pamir
(2799 tons, 316 ft.), L’Avenir (2754 tons, 278 ft.),
Olivebank (2795 tons, 326 ft.), Passat (3137
tons, 324 ft.), Pommern (2376 tons, 311 ft.),
Parma (3047 tons, 328 ft.), Lawhill (2816 tons,
317 ft.) —all steel four-masted barques; Kil-
loran (1817 tons, 262 ft.), Winterhude (1980
tons, 286 ft.), Kylemore (1229 tons, 226 ft.),
Lingard (1039 tons, 213 ft.) —all steel barques;
Penang (2019 tons, 266 ft.) —full-rigged ship;
and Postalozzi (1047 tons, 207 ft.) —iron barque.
(2) This type of ship is not being built nowa-
days, and the cost is therefore unknown.
(3) Possibly they could be obtained second-
hand. (4) These vessels are all foreign-owned
—the majority of them being owned by Cap-
tain Erickson, Mariehamn, Finland. (5) £3OOO
to £5OOO. (6) («) 25 to 35, ( b ) 15 to 25.
* * * *
Names and addresses of Australasian unde-
nominational religious journals 7 —484.
“Australian Christian World,” 66 Bathurst-
street, Sydney; the “Doorway,” published by
the Y.W.C.A., Liverpool-street, Sydney; the
“Roll Caff,” 140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney; “City
Mission Herald,” 87 Campbell-street, Sydney;
“Australian Inter-Collegian,” published twice
a year by Prof. Bayley, Melbourne, Vic.; “City
Mission Hefald,” 380 Exhibition-street, Mel-
bourne; “Christian Commonwealth,” Currie-
street, Adelaide, and the “Reaper,” 411 Queen-
street, Auckland, M.L. !
Brief Answers.
J.M.A.: See Digging Up the Past, by C. L.
Woolley, and Buried Cities and Bible Countries,
by George St. Clair TJ.G.: Write Fair-
banks Morse Co., 29 Clarence-street, Sydney.
R.H.: In Test cricket South Africa has de-
feated England in 12 matches. At Lord’s (Eng.)
in 1935; and 11 times in S’Africa —at Johan-
nesburg in 1906 (three times), 1910, 1922, 1928
and 1930; at Capetown in 1906 and 1910;
and at Durban in 1910 and 1928 S.G.J.:
(1) Harry J. Weston, O’Brien House, Young-
street, Sydney. (2) Yes, 155.. (3) Yes
C.F.: J. J. Hardie has had published two
novels, Cattle Camp and Lantana; a third,
The Bridle Track, now running in The Bulle-
tin as a serial, will appear in book form
shortly K.C.: The first number of the
“Lone Hand” appeared in May, 1907. It ceased
publication in October, 1914... .R.P.: Write
Naval Staff Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-
road, Edgecliff, Sydney... .J.H.: Modern Pise,
by K. J. Ellington, published by the author
at Port Angeles, Washington, U.5.A.... .J.D.:
It is impossible to say where the greatest
number of sharks will be found round the
Australian coast, though it may be assumed
that the prevalence of large sharks increases
towards the tropics. The Technological
Museum, Sydney, will give you information as
to treatment and marketing if you call. The
number available per month cannot be even
remotely estimated... .C.S.: The platypus is
totally protected under the Birds and Animals
Act, N.S.W., and it is highly improbable that
the Chief Secretary would issue a license for
exportation. Communicate with the Chief
Secretary’s Department... .A.D.: Write Base
Records Office, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne.
K.R.: The only means of entrance now
to the dental profession in N. S. Wales is
through Sydney Uni. Qualification for entrance
is matriculation for medicine and dentistry.
Full particulars of the course, fees and en-
trance requirements are contained in the Uni.
Calendar for 1935 H.D.: Can find no trace
of such a publication. Omar Khayyam wrote,
in addition to the famous “Rubaiyat,” a number
of algebraical works which won him a repu-
tation as one of the greatest exponents of that
branch of knowledge, but not, as far as is
known, any other literary work... .E.W.C. :
See Flax Culture, by Fred Bradbury (125.).
. ...A.8.M.: (1) Vita glass, from Queensland
Decorators, Ltd., 117 Mary-street, Brisbane.
(2) Fertiliser grinding machinery, from J. P.
Van Gelder and Co., 66 Bay-street, Sydney.
If it is intended to place fertilisers upon the
market, peruse the Fertilisers Act, which is
administered by the Department of Agriculture
and Stock, William-street, Brisbane. (3) In-
formation unobtainable... .W.A.L.: No other
reliable system known which is as universal.
. ...R.K.D.: Information riot available in
Sydney... .E.E.H.: A feather-eating cockatoo
should be fed on whole corn, field oats, wheat
and plenty of green feed. No bones or meat
or food of a fatty nature... .M.E.R.: See
The Australian Authors and Artists’ Hand-
book. ... A. 0.: Not land on which all rates
are paid, but it could by legal process, as a
last resource, obtain permission to sell the
vacant land on which outstanding rates remain
unpaid R.L. (N.S.W.): (1) If you are not
prepared to pay the rent demanded, the owner
can give you notice to quit the premises, and
may then relet them at the higher rental. (2)
Write to the solicitor and inform him that, in
view of his continued delay in furnishing you
with a complete statement of the outstanding
costs, you will, unless such statement is fur-
nished to you within, say, 14 days report the
matter to the Incorporated Law Institute for in-
quiry. If not furnished, do so. The address is
No. 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .A.M.:
N.S.W. Agricultural Department will furnish
you with pamphlets on the subject upon request.
C.H.C.: Covered by Law 25. The umpire
decides whether the wicket has been broken by
the striker while playing at the ba11... .K.8.J.:
Injury to joint causes bursa or fluid swelling to
persist. Surgical treatment is required. Anodynes,
iodine, etc., give temporary relief... .T.C.: For
elementary work, see Kodak X-ray Manual
and X-rays; 2s. 9d. posted, Kodak, Ltd., 379
George-street, Sydney. Literature on technical
work from Watson and Sons, 9-13 Bligh-street,
Sydney... .F.E.8.: There is little or no demand
for goanna (iguana) oil. Inquire Elliotts and
Australian Drug, Ltd., Brisbane... .A.E.P.:
Examination advised for diagnosis of cyst de-
velopment. Treatment is entirely surgical.
Small superficial cysts can be removed under
local anaesthetic. There is usually little dis-
comfort, and the healing process is rapid
J.L.E.; Consult a specialist. Prompt treat-
ment is essential. Your outline suggests a re-
mote toxic fault. Home remedies are best
avoided... .R.H.D.: Of opinion it means the
investments, etc., shall be distributed among the
persons named in the appointment in accord-
ance with its directions... .F.T.: Write Curtis
Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden,
London... .H.J.8.; Questions are too vague to
answer. Get in touch with the Customs De-
partment, Rabaul R.W.L.: A class in book-
binding was proposed at the Melbourne Tech-
nical College, but, there being no room
available, the idea was abandoned... .A.E.G.:
There is no means of completing a course
for an engineering degree at the Melbourne
University without attending there....
M.W.: (1) First game only. (2) Correct
number is five; discard two and hold three.
(3) Can play six if you wish, in which case
discard two and hold four S.N.: Mass is
the quantity of matter contained in a body
A.R.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) Figures not avail-
able. (4) Varying distances. See Official His-
tory of Australia in the War, vol. 1. (5) 4.30
a.m. (6) Not known... .A.L.: Attend at any
public hospital (out-patients’ dept.) for ex-
amination. Subsequent treatment is given
according to the requirements of the case.
Charge is nominal... .W.C.; Keene’s cement
(white), from Nock and Kirby, 417 George-
street, Sydney, 4d. per lb E.M.: There is
no injection treatment for cataract. Though
temporary relief is possible with drofis (dila-
tation of pupil) and suitable tinted glasses,
operation affords the only exact cure. In
skilled hands danger is reduced to a minimum.
(Many others mailed.)


Both personal pride in a well-kept car. and
increased trade-in or reselling value will be
the result of a little work with these three
"Duco" Specialities. The fact that they are
made by the actual makers of "Duco" Lacquer
is sufficient guarantee of their quality and
effectiveness.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated m Vic.) F62.16.T
DESIGNED AND BUILT AT DAGENHAM, ENGLAND
KEEP YOUR CAR
" S PI C AN D S PAN V
N o 7 AUTO TOP DRESSING
m
i
mSX
m
WITH THESE 3
m
SPECIALITIES
Products of
British Australian ■
Lead Manufac-
turers Pty. Ltd.,
makers of famous
“Dulux” finishes
and ‘ ‘ Duco”
Lacquers
783.
SAVE TIME and MONEY IN
PLOUGHING ...
W ith a FORDSON
1 =
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR - 26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER. BALANCED CRANKSHAFT .... HEAVY - DUTY
TRANSMISSION . . . GOVERNOR CONTROL . . . SPECIAL
AIR CLEANING SYSTEM . . . CRANKCASE VENTILATION . . .
“HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER ... CLUTCH PULLEY . . . POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The English Fordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-power
on the market. It saves time and money on every job—ploughing,
harvesting, haulage ?or stationary work. Fordson is available
with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips. Your local Ford
dealer will explain the easy purchase
terms provided by the special Fordson
finance plan.
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &.
Young Streets. Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street. Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., City Shrms.: 601-3
Lit. Collins Street, Melb.
South Aust.: POWER PLANT LTD.,
98-100 Currie Street. Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD.. Hay Street, Perth
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
“Empty Gestures”
Why waste good irony (B. 19/2/’36)
upon the empty gestures of professional
politicians? What would anyone expect
from those who gain a handsome
living from the practice of opportunism
when it comes to an issue between get-
ting a good job and merely eating one s
own words? In a political sense, words
are only wind, anyhow. Personally, I’m
glad to see our only W.M.H. back in the
cakeshop, because he has a much more
colortu stock of words than the average
political draught-maker, and a more pic-
turesque way of using them. He is really
a powerful speaker on occasion. They
still point out at Canberra the blasted
gum-tree m which the magpie who at-
tacked him had its nest. Even the eggs
were hard-boned. .
I think, too, that Mr. Lyons is also
glad to have our Little Digger back
where he can keep an eye on him. It
seemed more than a coincidence that Mr.
Lyons felt it necessary to accompany his
absolution with a fervent reassurance to
an anxious world that he, Mr. Lyons,
would in no possible circumstances what-
ever resign from the Prime Ministership,
all rumors to the contrary notwithstand-
ing. Indeed, it almost looked as if he
realised the need of some such declara-
tion after Australia’s best political engi-
neer had been playing about the foun-
dations, jobless and dissatisfied, and with
goodness knows what of political dyna-
mite in his pocket. Mr. Lyons must hope
that he hasn’t left a packet dr two of
it lying about.—M. Turlutu (Q.).
Another Still-born Finding
Cabinet should refund Victorian
teachers’ director James Mcßae his heavy
legal expenses incurred during the long-
drawn-out sittings of the commission on
textbook royalties, appointment's and all
other such what-nots that could be raked
together.
A day’s searching investigation by the
Minister and the inquiry would have been
still-born; but a Labor member said hys-
terical things in the House, and commis-
sions are the easy let-out. The only result
is that deserved encomiums are showered
on Mcßae. Everything is “proper.” “Mr.
Mcßae’s conduct throughout... .above
reproach, and his motives good and high.”
The service knew all this beforehand,
and feels now that someone else should
pay his piper. “Inordinately” does not
describe the stringing-out of the inquiry,
T. P. (Vic.),
Abo. Police
The Federal Government’s plan fo
raise a Northern Territory native.police
force officered by whites for keeping
order among the wild and semi-wild
a b os . should not be rushed. There is
no a nalogy between Papuan and New
Guinea natives and the Australian abos.
considered as police material. The first
two are people on a higher plane, with a
higher sense of discipline and capacity
f or organised action. Even so I can
certify that there are some ugly blots on
the record of the admirab ] e Papuan
force— e.g., the massacre of “tame” mis-
sion natives at Paiwa; and there were
others.—Jacky Jacky (N.S.W.).
r . A
Employing Mary Ann
I’m all for giving Mary Ann a fair
deal, but if our legislators shorten hours
and lengthen pay too much the result is
inevitable. When a housewife finds she’s
paying highly for a very restricted span
of toil, and that more than half the work
has to be done by herself, she’ll soon
decide that it’s not much harder and
very profitable to do it all. Raising
wages and shortening hours in men’s
work helped along the use of machinery,
Women are - becoming wise to labor-
saving devices, too. ,
Why not make a course in domestic
science compulsory for every girl getting
a.State education and instil into them the
value of their work: i.e., what good
co °king and cleanliness in the home
mean to the health and happiness of the
community. If the employer also fos-
tered this idea a girl would feel that her
was an d that she had a
definite place m the scheme of things,
Which she has.—Daisy Doolittle
OY.A:).
~ “
Ambulance ’Plane Needed
„ “Riyerite,” deploring the conditions at
Wilcahnia (N S W.) Hospital (B.
31/3/’36), is hardly up to date. Electric-
fans are now fitted in the night nurse’s
day quarters and in all the wards,
General repairs, improvements to the
drains and additions to the staff quarters
were completed in January. Tenders are
being called for installation of a com-
bined hot-water and steam-sterilising
plant as well as an elaborate septic-tank
sanitary system. And there have always
been wire doors.
Even if “Riverite’s” objections were
not nullified by the above, an ambulance
aeroplane for the district would still
stand out as a life-saving institution. —
J. B. Cole, Medical Superintendent.
Monkeying with the Elements
In every part of the world climatic
caprices are getting the oldest inhabitant
fairly beaten. Here, the summers are
growing cooler and the winters warmer.
The Old World is having colder winters
and hotter summers Everywhere blows
and blizzards of unexampled ferocity.
Already the knowalls are out with
their explanatory theories. Some of
them nominate atmospheric disturbance
caused by radio waves now rippling round
the globe as chief climate spoiler. The
writer rises to second that pro forma.
By monkeying with the elements people
don’t know what harm they may do.
Climate is not a matter of either latitude
or altitude to the extent that it is popu-
larly supposed to be. The.hottest spot
on the earth is Bandar Abbas, up in the
Persian Gulf. People come down from
there towards the Equator for a breath
of cool air. Darwin is some degrees
further from the Equator than Port
Moresby, and has a higher mean tem-
perature, though both are on the same
level. Thursday Island, with no latitu-
dinarian difference to speak of, has a
more liveable climate than either.
No need to go on quoting such
examples the world is full of them.
Climate is largely a matter of air and
ocean currents. And what directs these
currents in their courses, anyone can
tell but no one can prove. The Gulf
Stream starts from the Caribbean Sea.
carrying tropic heat to the coasts of
England, which country would otherwise
be as cold as Labrador. As far as we
know it might at any time turn round
and go the other way. The same with
wind currents. Has anybody a right, with
radio waves or other devices, to inter-
fere with these elements in a way that
might possibly make this earth unin-
habitable?—C. T. (N.S.W.).
A Financial Analogy
The Lyons-Casey formula for dealing
with outside financial requests is sim-
plicity itself. Applicants for tax-reduc-
tion in the interests of industry or for an-
other check-up on pension-qualification
are told that Commonwealth commit-
ments for social services and State aid
cant be interfered with. Those who want
money spent out of the “surplus” on such
matters as the Rivett scheme for dig-
ging the national debt out of the ground
or subsidising sea-training for boys are
gravely told that it would involve further
Federal taxation. The effect, in either
case, is to put the applicant in the posi-
tion of one who wants to act in opposi-
tion to formidable outside interests.
In bygone Melbourne days there used
to be an exact analogy in operation in
Paddy’s Market. A genial old Cockney
dealer had two large and truculent sons,
Who helped him in the business. Should
any customer endeavor to beat down his
prices he would blandly call up Bill, and
mention that any loss on the transaction
would really come out of Bill’s pocket.
Few customers cared to venture upon
making Bill lose anything by the deal.
Should a creditor appear, ’Arry was sum-
moned. He was even larger and more
truculent than Bill. After noting the
effect on ’Arry of the paternal state-
ment' that it really was ’Arry who would
have to dp the paying, the great majority
of creditors were anxious either to make
a substantial reduction, or to waive
the claim altogether.— Colonel Bung-
starter (Q.).


FOR WARWICK FARM.
Fairfield Handicap: Jubilee Son;
next, Law King.
Liverpool Handicap: Hadrian ;
next, Valiant Chief or Heritor.
Chipping Norton Plate: Garrio ;
next, Sarcherie.
Autumn Cup: Spear Prince ; next,
Nalda or Soft Step.
Cabramatta Handicap: Lolorua ;
next, Bombus.
FOR MELBOURNE EVENTS.
Caulfield Flying: Orford; next,
Chelandric.
Hospital Handicap: Free Wheel ;
next, Man-at-arms. • -
Nurses’ Welter: Threelake or
Curiali.stip ; next, Whitford.
Epsom Plate:. Orford or Three-
lake ; next, Capris. ’ /
Cheltenham Handicap: Charles
Fox; next, Allenby.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Excuses were made for Peter Pan that
he was not ready when beaten out of a
place in City Tatt.’s Randwick Stakes on
March 14, but in the Rawson Stakes, at
Rosehill Dangar’s horse was no match
for old Lough Neagh, who was well
backed at fives. There was no fluke
about the Queenslander’s win. He was
pulling double in the early stages, and
from when Shean let him go past the
pacemaking Spear Prince at the turn the
result was not in doubt. Peter Pan hung
in under pressure near the judge and was
beaten a neck, but Lough Neagh’s margin
could have been greater. Definitely not
the Peter Pan of old.
Garrio, who looked as if he had been
playing in a lucerne paddock, had no
luck in running. He was side on when
the barrier was released, but got a good
run on the rails along the back. Turning
for home, he was squeezed, but Voitrc
still hung to the rails, evidently expect-
ing Lough Neagh to tire and move out.
Later Peter Pan came across quickly and
Voitre was caught in a pocket. Garrio,
well enclosed, was third. Had he got a
decent run in the straight he would have
been mighty close to Lough Neagh.
Sylvandale was fourth, then Oro and
Allunga.
Bob Walder’s Gay Blonde (2 to 1)
enhanced her prospects for the Doncaster
by winning the Railway Handicap from
Barak and Regular Bachelor. The trio
will have their battle over again in the big
mile at Randwick, and judged on Satur-
day’s running Regular Bachelor, who
carried nine pounds more than his Don-
caster impost, should beat the other two.
High disappointed. He drew the rails,
and Knox was forced to drive him along
to save being cut off. This did not suit
pastoralist Victor White’s gelding, and he
almost walked the last furlong. Kuvera
came home well to run fourth, but the
Doncaster looks beyond this six-year-old
stallion.
Salamander and Egmont are two light-
weights who may run prominently in the
Sydney Cup. They could not be
separated in the Autumn Handicap, and
finished so well at the end of a mile and
a half that the extra half-mile in the Cup
should not come amiss to them. Sarcherie
was presented with a beautiful run on
the rails at the Leger ; she actually led a
furlong from the judge, but, though she
looked a picture, her Bst. 81b., the same
weight as she has in the Cup, beat her
at the finish. Broad Arrow surprised by
flying into fourth place ahead of Jovial
Son, who tried to lead throughout. Con-
tact ran sixth. He was a good way back
early, but only plodded along in the
straight. Amalia will be better for the
race. She was kept on the rails to save
her from lugging out. She is small, and
her Bst. 111 b. in the Cup might trouble
her. ,
Lolorua looked a fair thing beaten in
the Three-year-old. He whipped round
whdh the barrier was released, and
was hopelessly placed in the first half
mile. His fifth will keep him in the
limelight. Winner Red Rosebud (6 to 1),
who won the Maiden the previous week,
is a smart chestnut filly by Chief Ruler —
White Tulip, owned by Mrs. Jack King]
The filly stalled off The Freak and
Bronze Ruffle in the run home.
The bookies got two good results in
the Nursery. In the first heat Hamurah
(10 to 1), whose dam Hamurana won
races .for Bill Henderson, scored con-
vincingly, and in the second division
Hayacu, a plain-looking chestnut, starting
at 25 to 1, outstayed Scout. But Illa-
warra (third) was knocked from pillar to
post.
Rosehill-trained Wykeham (6 to 1)
finished too well for Prittle Prattle and
Merrie Miller in the Parramatta Mile.
Pandion would have been dangerous
but for interference when Limyris, Stone-
brook and Love Song fell at the five fur-
longs. Tapestry showed plenty of pace,;
he is a really good galloper when well.
Akuna, not fancied in the betting, just
missed a place.
* t * % *
With only 10 moderates to beat, and
with a 71b. allowance which reduced his
weight to 7st., Loud Applause looked the
best bet of the day in the Autumn Handi-
cap at Hawkesbury. Five to two could
be got, thanks to the backing of Braeburn,
that humble bookmakers’ friend ; but
the money was left in the bags. It was
the fault of the jockey rather than that
of the horse, who had the race won at
the straight. But he began to loaf, and
the lad could not get him going again
in time to ward off a late challenge on
the part of Sally (8 to 1). Fireman (5 to
1) was a fair third. Apparently he is
not as good as was thought in the spring,
but Loud Applause seems likely to
justify the promise he showed in the
Rosehill Guineas. He has run promi-
nently in all his recent races, and may
go on improving.
* i- * *
Apart from Manfred’s Heatherlie
Handicap win some years ago there has
been no galloping achievement on the
Victorian turf in modern times to com-
pare with that of Barracker in the Wok-
ingham Handicap at Ascot last Saturday.
Manfred won after sacrificing 20 lengths
or more through piggish behavior at
the post; Barracker stood flat-footed
when the barrier rose, and his nearest
rival was 10 lengths away before the
Windbag four-year-old jumped into his
bridle.
Barracker had been backed down
to favoritism, supplanting Arachne,
who eased from 9 to 4 to 3 to 1. It
looked a million simoleons to a goose-
berry that he would trail the field all
the way, and McShortodds grinned with
anticipated delight; but Ashley Reed rose
to great heights as a jockey. He allowed
Barracker to stride along quietly for a
couple of furlongs, and did not ask his
mount for any real effort until the half-
way stage was reached. Going round the
field (which made his performance all
the more remarkable), Barracker mowed
down the leaders and scored by three
lengths from Phenomenon, with Arachne
a length farther off. Perhaps the biggest
crowd ever seen at Ascot shouted them-
selves hoarse as Reed brought Barracker
back to scale. Almost unbelievably, the
winner had conceded Arachne 15 lengths’
start over six furlongs and beaten the
pride of J. A. Donohoe’s stable like a
hack,
Arachne is back at Randwick, having
left Melbourne on Sunday, accompanied
by Dermid and the younger members of
Donohoe’s team —British, Capital, The
Gift and Elard. The Melbourne visit
yielded only two wins, one by Arachne
before she was narrowly defeated in the
Oakleigh Plate and the other by Capital
at Ascot on Saturday. Sent out equal
favorite with Heroic Chief for the first
division of the Buckingham Handicap,
Capital led throughout, romping home in
advance of Davine and Fine Son. Wal-
lace Hayes, a Sydney investor, gave 160
guineas for Capital as a yearling, but
went cold on the racing of horses, and
leased the Silvius filly to her trainer.
Capital, apart from being by the same
sire as Sylvandale, is related on the dam’s
side to Sarcherie, and Donohoe hopes
that she may develop into another Figure.
Crofts was precluded by illness from
attending the yearling sales in Melbourne,
but probably will be a' buyer in Sydney
at Easter. Owner of a hundred grocery
stores throughout Victoria, he has em-
barked boldly on the purchase of thor-
oughbreds, and finds satisfaction, if not
actual profit, in the sport. Crofts gave
900 guineas last year for Heroic Chief,
but this brother to Valiant Chief does
not measure'up to his illustrious relative.
He was a poor fourth in the race won
by Capital at Ascot. The second divi-
sion of that event went to Percy Miller’s
For Valour, a filly by Heroic from a
sister to AmP un i Si Piloted by a diminu-
tive apprentice, For Valour squeezed
home by half a head from the favorite.
Ngapuna. She has registered two wins
and two thirds in four starts, and is
decidedly promising.
Riding honors at Ascot went to R.
Bailey, who won on Capital and Rhodes
Scholar, besides being on Whirry when
that horse lost the Seacombe Welter to
In the Air by half a head. Ashley Reed
took the second division of the Mood-
mere Trial on Adam and the Woking-
ham Handicap on Barracker. The suc-
cess of Rhodes Scholar compensated
Jack James for that horse’s failures at
Caulfield and Moonee Valley on preced-
ing Saturdays.
Rhodes Scholar is a brother to Charles
Fox. In the Air is partly owned by
a Melbourne sporting scribe, W. G.
Hughes.
* * * *
Valiant Chief travelled to Sydney by
the same train as Arachne. The brilliant
chestnut will be ridden in track gallops
by L. Francis, a little apprentice of F.
W. Hoysted’s. Present intentions are to
race him at Warwick Farm. Whether
he will run in' the All-Aged Plate at Rand-
wick depends on how he shapes in the
Doncaster.
Valiant Chief galloped six furlongs in
Imin. 14isec. at Mentone/Ipt Thursday,
and was in the middle of the track most
of the way.
Reynoldstown won the Aintree Grand
National last, week for- the’ second time
in succession—the first horse to do so
since 1870. He started at 10 to 1 ; the
odds against any horse completing the
four-mile course —of the 35 starters only
seven finished —are reckoned at 3 to 1.
Avenger, favorite at 100 to 30, broke his
neck, and the 1934 winner, Golden
Miller (5 to 1), came down at the first
jump. Reynoldstown was lucky ; a 100-
to-1 chance, Davy Jones, led him by
lengths over the last jump, but ran off
the course (the reins broke) at the turn
into the straight. Ego (50 to 1) and
Bachelor Prince (66 to 1) filled the places.
* * * *
John McDonald, N.S.W. pastoralist,
breeder and owner of racehorses and
member of the A.J.C. committee for
many years, died at the week-end. He
bred and raced many good ones, among
them Mountain King, Belah, Cisco,
Mountain Knight and Lady Wallace, all
winners of Derbys, and also Balarang,
Braehead and Poi Dance; Mountain
King was perhaps the best. John Mc-
Donald was in his 94th year at the end.
He had been a member of the A.J.C.
40 years.
* afc * ♦
Charles Fox, who was something of a
disappointment in the spring, though he
did run second in the Caulfield Stakes,
has come good this autumn ; indeed, it is
doubtful whether there is a better weight-
carrying miler now in the business than
this offspring of Son of Mine—Brilliance.
He won the Kooyong Welter at Caulfield
with lOst. 21b., and with 61b. more in the
Balcombe Welter at Mentone had an-
other decisive victory. He was favorite
at 6to 4. One of those he defeated was
Press Gang, who had lOst. 101 b.; the
old chap could not pace it with the
younger horse. It is a pity Charles Fox
was not nominated for Randwick.
* * * *
Young Idea is to be sold at auction
in Melbourne on April 3. He is owned
by two breeders', Percy Miller and A. G.
Hunter, who had him trained for the
Derbys and then for the V.R.C. St.
Leger. The effort to make a stayer of
him dulled his speed, which was such
that he was unquestionably the best two-
year-old of his season and a three-year-
old so fast that in a w.f.a. race at Rose-
hill he made Peter Pan go his hardest —
and the chestnut was a real champion
then. After that performance the colt
could have been sold for 3000 guineas,
but he is unlikely to fetch that now. Yet,
reserved for the Newmarket or the Don-
caster, he might have been a fair thing.
* * * *
So far Warwick Farm has not fulfilled
the hopes cherished by A.J.C. committee-
men when they bought the charming
course, but its tracks are increasingly
favored by owners and trainers visiting
Sydney for the autumn and spring meet-
ings. Most of the horses from other
States with Easter engagements are being
prepared at the Farm. In the circum-
stances it is astonishing that the daily
newspapers don’t report the local gallops.
Melbourne newspapers regularly record
the doings at Mentone and Epsom as
well as at Flemington and Caulfield ;
but what goes on at Warwick Farm,
Rosehill, Canterbury Park and Moore-
field N.S.W. followers of racing have to
find out for themselves.
* * * *
Considering the achievements of Regu-
lar Bachelor, Lough Neagh, Rivalli, Soft
Step, Spear Prince, Faith Australia, The
Buzzard, Bustard and others, Queens-
land breeders had every reason to expect
that there would be a brisk demand for
the pick of the young stock at the year-
ling sales held last week. This was so
far from being the case that the best of
The Buzzards and Rivolis were passed in.
T. Jennings, proprietor of the Alma
Vale stud, also refused to take poor
prices offered for Spearfelts that will
assuredly fetch a lot more in Sydney.
Nevertheless, 15 Spearfelts averaged 140
guineas and 17 Monash Valleys 128
guineas—Monash Valley, who won the
Q.T.C. Derby in 1930,; is by Valais —La
Neive;; and thus. far his offspring have
shown distinct galloping ability.
Top priced was 430 guineas, paid by
W. J.' Tucker for a black colt by Spear-
' felt out of Serevale, arid another Tucker,
W. A., gave 400 guineas for a bay colt
by Monash Valley—Dightena. J. H. S.
Barnes, of Canning Downs, accepted 390
guineas for a chestnut colt by Rivoli—
Instil (W. Tanwan bought him), and 385
guineas for a brown, "colt by imported
Bonnemoht—High Ideas ; but he refused
to take 275 guineas for a bay colt by
Bonnemont —Lady Vine.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Just when a Sydney daily
announced the publication of a life of
Les Darcy, O’Sullivan, who took Darcy
to the U.S.A., began packing his bags
for England. C : It was' merely a fortuitous
coincidence, as the pundits would say;
O’Sullivan had decided on the move
weeks before. After that ill-fated trip
to America, he crossed to England,
where, described in friendly newspapers
as “the Anzac trainer”' (just as George
Cook was described as “the Anzac
boxer”), he did pretty well as a racing
man until he had some difficulty with
the Jockey- Club. Returning to Sydney,
he put thousands into horseflesh, but
picked a dud in every case. He expects
to make another start in the pony-racing
business, which, on its last legs in Aus-
tralia, is having a bit of a boom in
England.
* * * *
“M.P.”: In spite of glowing reports as
to the wonderful wagers laid every Satur-
day by bookmakers who take scribes into
their confidence, the Sydney Ring is weak
—perhaps weaker than it has ever been
before. And on courses other than Rand-
wick its despotism is not tempered by a
straightout tote. The result is that people
are obliged to take very poor prices or
blindly accept the concession-betting odds
that the. 60-20-20 p.c. machine yields.
In the Rosehill Autumn Handicap the
tote, paying three dividends, returned a
better price on Salamander than that of
the bagmen. They called her at 5 to 1,
and to supporters with pound tickets they
paid out £3, their pleasant custom in the
case of dead-heaters being to retain half
the money staked. A pound tote ticket
on Salamander was worth £3 18s. ; and
two other dividends were paid. Yet 12}
p.c. and fractions of 6d. are deducted
from the tote pool. In a race that looked
very open, with 12 runners, McShortodds
offered 7 to 2 Sarcherie, 5 to 1 Sala-
mander and Egmont, 6 ( to 1 Contact and
Journal, 10 to 1 Master Brierly and Jovial
Son. All seven were backed at these
odds, which here and there were short-
ened, and there was a bit of money be-
sides for Amalia, Broad Arrow and
Glen’s Spear. Bookmaking at such prices
is picking up money.
(Continued on page 37.)
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A boxing match at Brisbane Stadium
on Saturday night ended in tragedy.
Bobby Clements, the Australian flyweight
champion, met “Tiger” Donnelly, and
for eight rounds was a clear leader on
points. Afterwards he went to pieces.
Knocked out in the eleventh round he
failed to regain consciousness, and died
from concussion ten minutes after being
admitted to hospital. Last year Clements,
a Sydney boy, had 29 fights for 29 wins.
For a time he held Micky Miller’s
bantam title, but' Miller regained it at
Brisbane on March 7, when the game
Clements took severe punishment.
(Continued on next page.)


_1 is the Man Who
Wears a “Karachi”
Lightweight Tropical Suit.
KARACHI
Lightweight Tropical
SUIT.
Tailored to Measure, Coat
and Trousers ... £5/15/- i
Three Piece .. ••• £6/6/- I
Ready to Wear. Prices
from 79/6
In Shades of Fawn and,
Biscuit.
{ •
m
PIKEBROTHERS
LIMITED I
in Queen St, Brisbane'*
NINE DAYS
SIX NIGHTS
You will\ of course, visit the . . .
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
6th to 15th APRIL, 1936.
Australia s Premier Exhibition.
SEE—
Australia s Finest Cattle Australia s Best Trotters and Jumpers
Championship Woodchopping Contests The Grand Parade Common-
wealth District Agriculture Exhibits Pigs, Poultry, Dogs, Birds and
Flowers Manufactures, Machinery and Motor Cars Championship
Buckjumping and Campdrafting—Queensland v. N.S.W. Rodeo Events;
Exhibition of Cattle Throwing and Tying Steer Riding.
Cossacks in Horsemanship Extraordinary.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W. G. C. Somerville, Secretary
THE
lIMITCn insurance
UNI I Eli COMPANYLTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager-
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Jachris”: Decided now that Carroll
will meet Barney Ross for the world’s
welter title in Sydney on November 24 ;
Lucas is off to America to collect the
holder. The scrap is to take place in
the open at the Sports Ground, and the
promoters hope to pull a lot of country
visitors for an English v. an Australian
Eleven match on the same day. As an
offset the N.B.C. crowd say they’ve got
John Henry Lewis coming to fight Palmer
as a light-heavy, but there will be no
title involved. The coon has an agree-
ment to defend his title only in the
States.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”; More fuss over the
Olympic amateur status. This time it
rose from a statement that Queensland
friends were arranging an “honorarium”
for boxer Cook, who has been chosen
for Berlin. A complaint was at once
lodged by the Olympic selectors, and the
idea has been abandoned.
Footbrawl
“Hooker”: The British Rugby Union’s
expected rebuff to the N.S.W. Union’s
proposals to alter the rules will probably
apply particularly to the Rugby League
kick-into-touch law, illegally used by
N. S. Wales last year, and forced on
Victoria in the inter-State match. The
matter should be settled within a month,
when it is to be hoped the people
who have for years been trying to make
the Union code conform to that of the
League will be silenced for good and all,
* * * *
“Scrum Half”; Readjustments in the
Rugby League’s programme for the
season have compelled the
Rugby Union to follow suit.
The N.S.W. team will go to
Queensland a week earlier, the
matches against Queensland
being put down for Brisbane
on May 23 and 30, with a mid-
week match at Ipswich or Too-
woomba. The dates for the
triangular inter-State tourney
in Sydney will also have to be
altered.
* * *
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Rugby
Union starts its grade matches
on April 18, and a lot of in-
terest will centre on the meet-
ing of the new club, Gordon,
with Drummoyne. Northern
Suburbs, the premiers, have
lost some good men to
Gordon, but they have such
a wealth of talent in the lower
grades that the absentees will be easily
replaced. The first half of the competi-
tion ends on July 13, and with 10 clubs
playing there will be no byes.
* * * *
Donald Stuart, president of the
Maoriland Rugby Union, is dead on the
eve of the All-Black annual meeting. It
is a coincidence that Dr. McEvedy, his
predecessor, passed out at a like time.
Stuart, who had previously played for
Otago and South Island, was chosen for
Wallace’s 1905 All-Blacks, but dropped
out because of an injury.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: If H. Bunton, of the Fitz-
roy (Vic.) F.C., continues on the way
he is going he will finish up as plastered
with medals as a dugout field-marshal.
The other day he was presented for the
third time in five years with the Brown-
low medal for the best and fairest player
in Melbourne League football.
* * * *
“Rover”: The annual report of the
Canberra Australian Football League
claims that all money accruing in the
game is spent in Australia and not dis-
tributed in “levies” outside the Common-
wealth. Also that it is a great employer
of labor and a creator of work in many
trades. There are many others on the
same lines, all of which could be put for-
ward in favor of other codes of football.
English Rugby League teams take their
share of the gates out of the country after
their visits, but Australia goes to England
in its turn and brings back a good share
of the swag. All sports may be said to
be a boon and a blessing to the trades
and finders of work for the workless.
Look how the butchers prosper by
supplying fillet steak and marrow-bones
for the tin-hare dogs! That is only one
instance out of dozens.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”; Though the Victorian F.L.
has decided against inter-State matches
this season the Victorian amateur organi-
sation will not follow suit. Adelaide is
holding a special centenary carnival in
August, and the Cabbage Gardeners have
decided to go along ; it is expected, too,
that Queensland, N.S.W., Tassie and
Westralia will join in. Finance will be
the hurdle, but since transport and hous-
ing will be the only cost with the lily-
whites that should be cleared.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Sarazen has written
the Australian golf controllers asking if
there is any bar to the entry in the
Australian open championship of his
female offsider, Helen Hicks. There is
no clause in the rules specially exclud-
ing women, but it has been ruled that
any player may be banned without
reasons being given. Whether this will
be applied to Helen is not clear. Sloan
Morpeth, secretary of the Australian
Golf Club, says he sees no reason why a
“I TOLD you not to put that body scissors on too hard.”
woman should not play. There has been
precedent in Britain, where women have
appeared with men in open events but
■? ! n “V o£ ‘he national chiimpion-
shlp tourneys controlled by St. Andra’s.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Jim Ferrier duly made
b j s British landfall, and is trying to find
bis land le 8 s before his first engagement
in tbe Scottish amateur championship at
Carnoustie on April 26. The family
hails from that famous golfing burg,
and what with that and the reports of
his prowess the local Scots are preparing
to welcome him with all the amenities
that Caledonia can furnish,
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Several members of
t he P.G.A. team recently in America
made their first appearance since their
return in the match for the Arnott Purse
at Concord. The event, over 36 holes
stroke, resulted in a tie between J. D.
Spence, M. L. Kelly and W. Bolger, all
returned travellers, with totals of 150.
Richardson, another of the tourists, was
fourth with 152. A southerly gale pre-
vented anything sensational in the way
of scoring. The best morning card
showed 74 by Spence, who was on his
home course. In the afternoon four
players tied with 75, Bolger, Kelly and
Cohen representing the Australian team.
* ■ * * *
“Kenso”: Argument as to whether the
N.S.W. amateur championship should
be decided by match play only or by a
qualifying round over 36 holes of stroke,
with match play to follow, has been re-
vived. The same question was raised
in Britain and the U.S.A. ; both agreed
some time ago that match play was the
soundest and fairest method, and it can
be taken as certain that the N.S.W.
event will continue under match-play
conditions.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Brian Fuller, who suc-
ceeds W. V. Armstrong as president of
the N.S.W. Tennis Association, has had
considerable experience of the job dur-
ing his predecessor’s absence abroad. He
was a councillor on the Australian and
N.S.W. associations, and has a reputa-
tion as a stiff disciplinarian. Something
of the sort is wanted in N.S.W. tennis.
**- * *
“Cut Shot”: The City of Sydney tennis
championship, a time-honored institu-
tion which has been in abeyance for a
season, has been revived. For years the
tourney was held on the Sydney club’s
courts at Sydney Cricket Ground. The
remodelling of the arena and the building
of new stands chased the tennis-players
from their old stamping ground. In
future No. 2 oval, where seven courts are
to be prepared, will be used. The pro-
gramme includes men’s and women’s
singles and doubles, with mixed doubles
and several special events.
* * He *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Allison, the
U.S.A. number one player, gives the
Australians an even chance with America
in the Davis Cup final of the Yankee
zone. They have to get there first. If
they play in Cuba, no one recalling their
bad showing there last time will care to
lay long odds on their chances.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: Oldfield discounts the
rumors that he intends to give up big
cricket, though according to the cables
his ’keeping in South Africa was
below the standard he has taught every-
one to expect from him. Beginning with
the A.I.F. team in 1919 Oldfield has had
a long run. He has visited England with
four Australian teams, and has held the
fort in this country against all-comers
for 15 years. Only Blackham and Kelly
can rival him in English tours, and only
Blackham has surpassed his long term
of hard labor behind the sticks.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The English press, warm-
ing up for the selection of the Eleven
for Australia, is again urging this coun-
try to adopt the “new” l.b.w. law and
fall into line with the rest of the cricket-
ing world. London “Sunday Times”
points out that O’Reilly’s bowling will be
even more dangerous under the amended
law. The amended law will be one of
the chief bones gnawed at the next meet-
ing of the Board of Control.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Olympic team
leaves Sydney on May 13, and after land-
ing at Marseilles on June 19 will travel
by Paris to Berlin, arriving on June 21.
This will give six weeks for training
before the start of the Games on August
1. Leaving Berlin on August 17 the
team sails from London on August 21.
Members must pass a medical exam, and
sign a bond not to turn professional
within two years of their return.
“Brass Addler”: Announced
that no athlete chosen for the
Olympiad could go unless the
body he belonged to paid up
its Olympic levies. The only
organisations in credit are the
Victorian and N.S.W. athletic
and swimming associations.
The boxers and wrestlers have
not paid a bean for years past.
One result of this scaling is
that the Olympic funds are
dead low. Members of the
team can be allowed only £2OO
per head for the five months’
tour, £l2O of it for fares.
* * *
“Lilywhite”: Elias, a mem-
ber of the Police crew for
Berlin, is stated to have played
Rugby League football,
though without payment. The
matter should be investigated
and, if it has not been done
already, steps taken to have
Elias reinstated as an amateur.
Otherwise, there may be
trouble. The rigid attitude of
the Olympic Federation towards the
slightest taint of professionalism was seen
at the Los Angeles Olympiad when the
mighty Paavo Nurmi was banned be-
cause he had run without payment in a
race against professionals.
“Cash Amateur”: A Sydney journal
has been handing out the misinformation
that if no money is taken for playing
professional football no one can infringe
his amateur status in athletics or swim-
ming. Athletes should be chary of the
advice. The question of money doesn’t
enter into it. It is enough to take part
in or be associated with professional
sport.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: Two of the N.S.W. Ash-
ton brothers, just landed in England with
14 ponies, have teamed up with a couple
of English players, Prior-Palmer and
Major Harrison, and will figure in all
the important English polo tournaments.
Prior-P. was one of' the stars of the
Indian army side here some years ago.
The combination, which has been chris-
tened The Knaves, has been handicapped
as a 24-goals side.


INQUIRIES invited
about stocks and shares
quoted on all principal
Stock Exchanges.
We are also in a posi-
tion to locate markets
in shares which are
unquoted and delisted.
Write, ’phone or call
Investment Bankers,
PACIFIC HOUSE,
249 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hodsons
Investments
Telephone: 82892.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Investbank, Sydney.”
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
£4,500,000
2.475.000
2,000,000
4.500.000
£13^475,000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF
THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 14th OCTOBER, 1935,
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, 26th MARCH, 1936.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank)
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 14th October last,
with the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on
bills current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making a
transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account provision for all bad
and doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for the year amounted to £273,856/19/-,
To this has to be added £178,690/6/11 brought forward from the previous year’s account,
making a total of £45*2,547/5/11. From this, £122,062/10/- was paid as an Interim Dividend
on 4th October last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £148,218/15/-
to pay a final Dividend of 4/3 per Share, less Income Tax at 4/6 in the £, making, in all,
£270,281/5/-, equal to 7/9 per Share, less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution
at the rate of 7J per cent., less Tax. There will remain £182,266/0/11 to be carried
forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on 27th March.
The Directors have to record with much regret the death, on 24th January last, of their
valued colleague, Mr. Harold Nelson.
To fill the vacancy on the Board caused by the death of Mr. T. R. Johnson, the Directors
have appointed Mr. Donald Forsyth Anderson, whose name will be submitted for the approval
of the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the provisions of the
Deed of Settlement.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: F. V. C. Livingstone-Learmonth, Esq., D. 5.0.;
C. E. Barnett, Esq., and Rt. Hon. Lord Aldenham, who, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for re-election.
Since the date of the last Report, Branches have been opened at Armidale, Inverell and
Mudgee, in New South Wales, and at Youanmi, in Western Australia.
Our West End Branch, which has been in temporary premises at 21 Cockspur Street,
S.W.I, since September, 1934, will return to rebuilt premises at 17 Northumberland Avenue,
W.C.2, on the 23rd of this month.
HORACE PEEL, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 16th March, 1936.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT from OCTOBER 16, 1934, to OCTOBER 14, 1935.
Balance brought forward from October, 1934 .. .. .. .. .. .. ~£178,090 6 11
Broflt for the year to October 14, 1935, after deducting Rebate
( £4422/7/2) on Bills current at Balance date, and after making
a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which
account provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made . . £1,076,710 16 7
Lrss:
I. Charges of Management —Australasia—Salaries
and allowances at 227 Branches and Agencies £489,732 1 4
General Expenses .. .. . . .. . . 99,291 11 9
London —
Salaries and allowances . . . . . . 22,787 15 11
General Expenses, including Directors’
remuneration . . . . . . . . 22,850 12 4
£634,668 1 4
11. Rates and Taxes —Australasia and London .. 168,185 16 3
802,853 17 7
273.856 19 0
£452,547 5 11
From which deduct—
Dividend paid October 4, 1935 £122,062 10 0
Dividend payable March 27, 1936 .. .. .. 148,218 15 0
270,281 5 0
Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet
£182,266 0 11
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 14,
1935.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit
a,mi other Liabilities, includ-
ing provision' for contingencies
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra
£26,138 0
23,895,132 15
13,162,969 16
4,610,492 13
237,160 18
0
4
4
8
£41,931,884 3 9
Capital:—-
900,000 Shares
of £ 5 each,
fully paid . . £4,500,000 0 0
(There is under
the Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund.. 2,475,000 0 0
(Used in the
business o f
the Bank.)
Currency Re-
ji'Tve* •• •• 2,000,000 0 0
I Used in the
business o f
rho Bank.)
Dividend pay-
able March
27, 1936 .. 148,218 15 0
Profit and Loss
Account Balance 182,266 0 11
9,305.484 15 11
£51.237.968 10 R
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and
London, at Cost, less amounts
written off .. . . . . 530,962 2 1
Note. —The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates
of exchange, and the net
difference which would have
arisen had they been con-
verted at the rates ruling at
the date of the Balance Sheet
is covered by Currency Reserves.
£5l.2R7.Sfi« m 9
E. GODAVARD, M anager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the Books of the Bank in London and
with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia and New Zealand. We
have verified the Cash Balances, Bills of Exchange, Investments and Securities held in London.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required, and in our opinion
the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn: up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the
state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations given
to us, and as shown by the books in London and the Returns from the Branches.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS and CO., Auditors.
London, 11th March, 1936.
“Blade”: The people staging the Syd-
ney G.P.S. regatta on the Nepean on
April 18 have put their backs into the
preparations. Any amount of car-park-
ing space has been reserved on both sides
of the river, and a large area on each
side has been set aside for spectators.
This year the fours and eights will be
rowed on the same afternoon without
heats, and with plenty of train and bus
facilities for reaching Penrith from the
city there should be a big crowd.
* * * *
“Hamboner”: Sydney G.P.S. are well
represented in the N.S.W. Police Olympic
eight, with four ex-Head of the River
men. Don Ferguson, who rows No. 2,
represented Sydney High School ; George
Elias, No. 4, twice stroked St. Joseph’s
to victory ; Joe Gould, No. 7, represents
Sydney Grammar, and Bill Dixon, who
is going as a reserve, is another Joey.
Several of the crew have distinguished
themselves in other sports than rowing.
Elias captained the famous Joey’s foot-
ball combination, Gould was a crack
rifle-shot and footballer at school, and
Wal Mackney represented Australia at
Rugby Union.
* * * *
“Scribe”: Australia’s statesman-diplo-
mat Stanley Bruce has blossomed into
authorship, though the blooming has
been long delayed. Seventeen years ago
he wrote a pamphlet, “Hints to Rowing
Coaches,” at the request of some of his
old Cambridge associates. The work was
forgotten in the whirl of politics until
resurrected the other day. It appeared
on the eve of the University boatrace.
* * * *
“Spike”: There is a strong move to
have the Australian championships in-
corporated with the National Games
when these come round every four years.
The chief purpose of the National Games
has been to bring under the eye of the
Olympic selectors all athletes aspiring to
figure at the Olympiad. This year the
clash of Australian championships at
Hobart and Games in Adelaide prevented
more than one athlete with a good Berlin
chance from competing at the more im-
portant meeting. The next Games are at
Brisbane in 1940, so there is plenty of
time to correct a manifest anomaly.
sfs s|c sje
“Spike”: The Australian Empire
Games authorities have decided to camp
their guests down in the Sydney Show-
ground, where the excellent buildings
used for the accommodation of dogs,
poultry and so on at show-time are avail-
able. Six thousand pounds from the
Government grant of £lO,OOO has been set
aside for travelling expenses. England,
Canada, South Africa and M.L. are ex-
pected to send 10 men each, and there
should be half a dozen Scots, with three
each from Wales and India and two
from Ireland. Bermuda, British Guiana,
Trinidad, Hong Kong, Fiji, Jamaica,
Rhodesia and Newfoundland will prob-
ably send a man apiece.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The testimonial fund to
Jack Worrall, the old Australian batsman
and Victorian footballer, gathered £415.
Worrall, who has been for years Aus-
tralia’s most authoritative writer on
cricket and Australian football, went
twice to England, in 1888 and
1899, finishing fourth in the batting aver-
ages the last time. He excelled as a
forcible batsman on a bad wicket in a
day when players of the type were not
so rare as they are to-day.
'* , * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Melbourne Inman won
the London “Daily Mail” gold cup, one
of the most valuable prizes in English
professional billiards, from the limit
mark, the only man to beat him being
Australian Horace Lindrum, who
downed the veteran by 8880 to 5923. Lin-
drum was fifth with three wins and three
losses.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Claude Ashton, of Essex,
who has come into the betting for the
English Eleven captaincy, is one of
the famous Cambridge brothers, and only
returned to the game last season after
some years’ absence. All the same he
headed the Essex averages with 59.42.
There may be some interest for Austra-
lians in the fact that he was educated at
Winchester, where Jardine learnt the
game.
Under the Whip
(Continued from page 35.)
“W.J.E.”: It is announced that Peter
Pan is not to go to Adelaide for the
King’s Cup race. Much as it admires
the old champion, the racing public
would be glad to see him scratched for
all engagements. In his last four races
he has been unplaced three times and
second —second to an old-stager like
Lough Neagh, who with both at their
top was never in Peter Pan’s class at any
distance. The stable has hopes that Peter
Pan will regain his form at Randwick.
In the case of a now-gross stallion, rising
seven, with unsound pins, this seems un-
likely. Further racing may seriously im-
pair his value as a sire. David, a mag-
nificent-looking stallion, was raced when
past his prime, and, though descended
from the most famous family of brood
mares in Australian turf history, he has
not been worth a row of pins at the stud.
Surely a horse that won two Melbourne
Cups has done enough.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup prize-money is to be
£lO,OOO again this year. This may be
taken to reflect the view of the V.R.C.
committee that the depression is over —
or will be by November.
* * * *
“S.G.”: H. E. Vail, the Westralian
mining man, is going in for horse-
breeding near Perth, and will add
Romany Faith, who has done pretty
well in Victoria, to his stud when
she has finished racing. Treat and
Gigolo are the stallions, and Vail is
buying mares with discrimination, show-
ing a preference for The Welkin breed.
Hitherto a dearth of classy mares has
been the chief weakness in Westralian
breeding, though Jolly Beggar sired a
multitude of winners. Yearlings bred in
eastern States and racehorses transferred
from Sydney and Melbourne do well in
the West, and here and there it has very
promising tracts of limestone country
which might yield good results if
thoroughly tried. Hitherto, they have
been neglected for Swan Valley land. It
has its merits, but is far from being the
best horsebreeding country.


I I
WILL BOIL KEEP THEIR SHAPE
£■ WON'T SHRINK
It takes good trousers to stand up to the rough
jobs on the land—but INGOT TWEEDS are
doing it. In fact, you’ll find them hard to wear
out.
Soaking rains or repeated boiling won’t shrink
them or spoil their shape.
INGOT TWEED TROUSERS are tested in
the factory for strength and wear —and they’re
tested thoroughly, under every climatic and work-
ing condition, by thousands of outdoor men in
every Australian State, who buy them again and
again. «
Get a pair yourself and prove their value.
£lOO Goodwill Token
If any purchaser of Ingot Tweed Trousers be
fatally injured whilst wearing these garments,
Ingot Mills, Ltd., 77 York Street, Sydney, will
make a present of £lOO to his next of kin.
Ask your stores for full details of this Goodwill offer.
4
\
P
P
#
A


fd
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
ono DOl y to EDINBURGH,”
miles in 74 hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
n£?,^^ l X V RY - SPEED, COMFORT,
escriptive booklets and full informa-
on application to
- r 2\ BNS ' p HIEP & CO., LTD.,
‘ rlt| S« Street, Sydney, and Branches.
ftttiaiKi
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! ISSuS”".? “m
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu- |
facturer—best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per- |
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted— I
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUK COY.', LTD., Dept. 113, *
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
£f any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
C E RRARD
The customer is always right when he gives a clean
acceptance receipt for cased goods wire-seal strapped
for safe transport with OGRRARD.
itHa i.W l.il
fd
SERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO
Townivil'e, Perth, Ade'aid- Hoba
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
p;.> address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
EgS Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Restoring the Balance
With all the banks, including the Com-
monwealth, in line regarding interest
rates, some measure of balance should
be restored to the financial outlook.
“Might bes” and “perhapses” have
definitely given way to higher interest.
Deposit rates are uniform, ranging from
2 p.c. on three months’ contracts to 3
p.c. on two-year deposits.
To what extent higher interest will
slow down our progress towards better
business conditions and re-employment is
the perturbing question. If the cost of
money rises no more than the extra paid
for deposits (an all-round' 10s. per cent.)
the effect shouldn’t be serious. But prob-
ably more to the point is that banks are
being forced to curtail lending at any
rate of interest. It is possible that fixed
deposits will now come in more readily,
and with a broader basis for credit con-
ditions may ease again later.
The Orion carried 1000 people away
from Australia the other day. The annual
exodus of tourists has begun; new
vessels and a more prosperous people are
combining to make this season a big
one. Here is probably a contributing
factor in present Stock
Exchange weakness—
a cleaning -up by
migrants of accounts
with brokers or a
realisation of invest-
ments by trippers to
pay for the trip.
As pointed out here three weeks ago,
Broken Hill Prop.’s steelworks output
to date this year is up over 20 p.c. on
last term. For the four weeks to March
15, there was no slackening in produc-
tion of pig-iron and steel ingots. In
May, 1934, there was a reduction in the
price of the co.’s heavier products, bring-
ing them below British c.i.f. rates. But
increased output should result in a
diminution of overhead costs, which may
fully offset these price cuts. In any case,
there doesn’t seem to be the slightest
doubt about maintenance of the \2\ p.c.
div. this year, on the new capital as
well as the old.
* * * ♦
At Lake Margaret (Tas.), the source
of Mt. Lyell’s hydro-electric supply, there
had been more than an inch of rain up
to the beginning of last week. Owing to
lack of water the mine has been buying
juice from the State supply. Output
of electrolytic copper for the fortnight
to March 18 (457 tons) was down about
50 tons on the usual figure. Total for
the current year (from Oct. 1) is 6084
tons.
* $ * *
As mentioned here several times in
recent months, Zinc Corporation has the
longest probable life of any mine at the
Barrier. W. S. Robinson, managing
director of the co., said at Silverton last
week that 25 years hence he believed
the co. would be pulling more ore than
it was to-day. “We are on the verge of
more substantial development and equip-
ment, and we intend to sink the new
shaft to 2500 ft.” Zinc Corp., in its pro-
gramme of diamond-drilling, has dis-
covered large bodies of ore, some of
which is richer than that being mined at
present.
* * * *
General Industries is the latest concern
to reach a 10 p.c. ord. div. basis. To
holders of old shares, however, it is
worth only 6} p.c.—7s. 6d. per ord. share
was written off in August, 1934. Last
year’s distribution was made up of a
2\ p.c. interim and p.c. final. Metters,
the chief subsidiary, absorbed the
K.F.B, pup some time back ; the operat-
ing cos, showed profits £15,050 higher at
£96,330 last term. Manufacturing stoves,
earthenware, etc., the organisation is
dependent a good deal on the building
trade. Hence the high return —6.2 p.c.
—obtained on the ords. at 21s. 3d.,
cum d’’ v .
* * * *
Com.aonweaun wool exports tur eight
months of the current season totalled
2,071,658 bales, up 271,359 bales on the
previous year, despite a lower clip (esti-
mated at 2,931,000 bales). As the end
of the season approaches the price is
“Pretty 'ot, aren't y', Wantin' ten bob for y'r stock?"
“Well, o' course, that includes th' goodwill."
firming. The statistical position for the
opening sales around September should
be good—very little carry-over is likely.
* * * *
At 525. 6d. Carlton Brewery (Melb.)
returns £3 16s. p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Tooth shares (Sydney) are about
the same, and give approximately equal
yield on the same div. basis. One of
the highest returns from a high-class
brewery stock is £4 13s. p.c., eventually
obtainable by the buyer of Castlemaine-
Perkins (Brisbane) rights at 9s. or there-
abouts.
* * * *
Woolworths (B. 25/3/’36) is negoti-
ating to buy the Edments stores in Mel-
bourne. Woolworths, through a sub-
sidiary, already has a store in Bourke-
street; Edments Pty. owns about a dozen
in Melbourne and suburbs, including a
head office in Bourke-street, higher up
than Woolworths,
* * * *
In the middle of last week wheat was
worth about 3s. 9d. a bushel on trucks
at Williamstown (Melb.). There have
been fairly good clearances of the grain
lately.
* * * *
A sick and sorry goldmining share-
market it is throughout the Common-
wealth. Every opportunity exists for
profitable production that prevailed two
years ago ; gold is still around £8 15s.
(Aust.), labor isn’t much dearer, and by
this enough time has elapsed for most
shows to have reached production.
Lancefield, once up to over 205., has
touched under 9s. Ora Banda Amalga-
mated has seen 30s. ; sellers accepted ss.
last week. Norseman has flopped
while sprinters like Pomme d’Or, Leon-
ora Central, Golden Valley, Lady Miller,
Western Queen and others which started
off with a great flourish are now worth
pence a share in the market. Rothsay
quickly slumped, New Occidental
(N.S.W.) has had a most speculative rise
and fall.
At the statutory meeting of N.Z.
Forest Products, Ltd., held in Auckland
last week. Sir Charles Marr, R. D.
Kennedy and H. Landon Smith (Aus-
tralia) and William Fraser, David Henry,
C. M. Bowden and R. G. Buckleton
(M.L.) were elected directors out of 17
nominations. Charlie Marr pops up in
the most unexpected places. Back in
1930 he was managing director of Amal-
gamated Coffee Plantations (New
Guinea), Ltd., which set out to grow
coffee near Madang, N.G. What the
co. amalgamated and whether it ever
grew much coffee Me. Marr might be
able to tell us. There were prospectuses.
“debentures,” trust deeds and so forth;
the public was asked for £175,000.
* * * ♦
Morning Star (Wood’s Point) was Vic-
toria’s largest gold producer last year
with 52480 z. from 2157 tons. Crushing
all took place in the last half of the
period. Gordon Gold (Bolwarrah) came
second with 49820 z. from 943 tons of
ore and recoveries from sands. Cocks
Pioneer (Eldorado) turned out 40990 z.
from 714,000 yards, Gordon Gold is
now the State’s best dividend-payer. On
the Bendigo field at present work is
largely developmental, though New
Blue and Hercules each produced the
best part of 4000 oz. in 1935.
:J; jJ: :J«
Gordon Gold (Bolwarrah, Vic.), re-
ports treatment of 22 tons for 2250 z.
from the slopes above No. 3 level —one
of the richest crushings to date. Ten
tons of “seconds” yielded 9oz. There
is a limited quantity of rich stone above
No. 3 level, where the quartz reef is
narrow; below 187 ft. it widens, with
lower values. It looks like becoming a
different sort of mining proposition at
depth.
* * *
The public response to the Treasury-
bill issue resulted in about a third of
the £1,000,000-worth offered being taken.
Recent banking and political develop-
ments indicate, if nothing else, that co-
operation in these matters isn’t 100 p.c.
* * * t-
In Melbourne last week:
The sharemarket reaction to the lift in interest
rates by the remainder of the banks, after
the suggestion that the ’Wales might rescind
its increase had brought forth speculative
buying, was a general weakening in Consols
and industrials. But bank interest is still low,
and in the absence of further increases industry
shouldn’t be greatly penalised. The greatest
danger lies in the future of public borrowing.
Zinc Corporation 10s. ords. went to 84s.
on Thursday, a rise of nearly 10s.
on the week. In B. 12/2/’36, when
the shares were at 755., it was
pointed out that “25 years’ supply
of ore is a modest estimate of what
can be seen with the eye and
measured with the drill at present
rate of extraction.” That is con-
firmed by the general manager’s re-
marks last week, which prompted
the present rise.
Lady Shentons sold heavily
(18,000 on Monday), going below.
7s. at one stage, following dismissals
at the mine and resignation of the
underground manager. This show
has been a pig in a poke to many
people, reports of good values at
one stage (the shares went to 17s.
6d.) having outweighed the question
of quantity in the speculator’s mind.
His mind is now in a state of flux,
and will be until the matters of plant
efficiency and ore reserves are cleared
up.
Triton was still one of the best-
supported mining stocks in the
market. An early div. is tipped.
Lancefield continues weak, despite
the fact that its costs are no more
than 245. a ton (exclud-
ing development), while
grade of ore is over 60s.
(Aust.). If matters of ex-
traction and availability
of ore are cleared up to
shareholders’ satisfaction,
these shares should turn out favorably at
Bs. 9d.
Mount Morgans recovered to 16s. 6d.
early in the week, and slipped back to 16s. 2d.
later. Foundations for the new low-grade
treatment plant are being put down at the
Queensland mine.
Broken Hill Souths have had attention
drawn to them here from time to tifne as
one of the best buys at the Barrier from an
immediate-income point of view. Probable life
is shorter than either the North or Zinc Corp.
But the projected development programme
should extend the life.
Emperor, Loloma and Koroere, after slip-
ping about the middle of the week, showed
rises towards the week-end —Loloma sub-
stantially.
Broken Hill Prop, recovered to over 60s.
on Thursday, after slipping back when the
remainder of the associated banks lifted their
interest rates on Tuesday. Australian Cement
continued weak. Adelaide Steam was
stronger. British Tobacco was sought after
at 40s. 9d.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADW
SHOWS
“Rose of the Rancho”
A Wild-Wester done to music, intro-
ducing still another singer who is as easy
to look at as she is to listen to. Her
name (pronounce it how you like) is
Gladys Swarthout; she is slim and dark,
has plenty of personality and produces a
fine mezzo-soprano. The play is based
on a tale of Southern California in the
days when Yankee landgrabbers were
despoiling the descendants of the Dons
and the latter formed themselves into
bands of vigilantes to protect them-
selves.
Miss Swarthout is Rosita, daughter of
Don Castro (H. B. Warner) and is also
Don Carlos, leader of the vigilantes, who
are taking the law into their own hands
against villain Joe Kincaid and his
myrmidons. John Boles is a Federal
agent. On the day of his arrival from
Washington he rescues Kincaid (Charles
Bickford) from Don Carlos (Rosita), joins
Kincaid’s gang and falls in love with
Sydney Wheeler as Moffat in "Jill,
Darling,” at Melb. His Majesty’s.
Rosita (Don Carlos). Several fights and
several songs later he gets his man —and
his girl. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Her Master’s Voice”
Everything about Edward Everett
Horton —his wrinkled brow, the beseech-
ing glint in his eyes, his despairing
mumble and the utter helplessness and
hopelessness of everything he does —is
closer to tragedy than comedy. In “Her
Master’s Voice” Horton’s usual stock-in-
trade is added to. He is cast as a hen-
pecked son-in-law, the pecker being
Elizabeth Patterson. Not only does he
out-Gilpin John Gilpin, but he unleashes
(there’s no other word for it) a crooning
voice capable of sinking a thousand ships
and severely damaging several others. His
“Fireside Troubadour” act is a tilt at
radio warblers that will be keenly appre-
cited by those who can’t abear ’em.
Others in a well-balanced cast are Peggy
Conklin, Laura Hope Crews and Grant
Mitchell. Also at the Prince Edward.
“Annie Oakley”
Hollywood lately has been casting
back to the latter years of last century
for semi-historical material. The latest
figure brought back is that of Annie
Oakley, and a good story has been
woven around the celebrated marks-
woman of the ’eighties. It traces her
career from girlhood to her rise to fame
as a member of Buffalo Bill’s Wild West
Show ; her love for Toby Walker, world’s
champion rifle-shot, and his love for him-
self form the central theme. There is no
base turpitude in the film. The show
sequences are spirited, and events move
briskly. At Sydney Capitol.
“Atlantic Adventure”
Also at the Capitol. Dan Miller
(Lloyd Nolan), a just-fired reporter,
boards the Europe-bound Gigantic on
a tip-off that Mitts Coster, mur-
derer of the District Attorney, may be
attempting to flee the country. Dan’s
girl Helen (Nancy Carroll), while on
the wharf waiting for him, is mistaken
for another passenger and passed
a packet containing 2000 bucks. She,
with Dan’s photographer friend “Snap-
per” (Harry Langdon), goes on board, and
while the three argue the vessel sails.
Follows furious action, with the trio
arraigned against jewel-thieves, hi-jackers
and the murderer, who join forces against
the snoopers after red-hot news. After
several highly exciting but totally uncon-
vincing skirmishes, the crooks are
clamped below, with reinstatement for
Daniel and orange-blossoms for Helen
looming in the offing. F.A.Q. excitement.
“The Melody Lingers On”
A hybrid of the better-class musical
and war-time love-drama types of film.
Heroine (Josephine Hutchinson) is a vir-
tuoso pianist. Hero, whose name doesn't
appear on the bills, is an operatic bari-
tone —appears as Escamillo in “Carmen”
at La Scala, Milan, while on leave (he’s
an Italian officer) and electrifies an Italian
audience with a very ordinary voice.
After about three-quarters of an hour
the baby, born out of wedlock, appears
on the scene. Italy being occupied by
the Germans, the heroine pops the infant
into a nunnery that is also a foundling
institution, so that it may escape the
rigors of a concentration camp. Half
an hour is occupied with her attempts to
steal it back after the war. She fails.
Infant is adopted by wealthy Italian
family. When he is 18 (represented by
original baritone, voice as ordinary as
ever), his mother, now a world-
famous pianist, reappears on the scene
and persuades his foster parents to let
him seek a career as a singer instead of
going into the diplomatic service. That’s
all. Most of the time Miss Hutchinson
is wandering slowly and miserably about
while an invisible orchestra plays scraps
of the “Raindrop Prelude.” Should suit
those who enjoy a good cry. At Sydney
Plaza.
“Don’t Get Personal”
A slight variation on the theme of
“Red Salute.” Beauteous Sally Eilers goes
Leo Franklyn in "Jill, Darling.”
roaming round the country stony-broke
in a battered old model T with Janies
Dunn and Pinky Tomlin (last-named
equipped with guitar and subject to
crooning fits). Why she should do this
is obscure, as her pop is a millionaire.
J. Dunn, at whose head she throws her-
self, repulses her with studied brutality
throughout about 4000 ft. of celluloid,
and then, when she is being married to
someone else, breaks into her home and
elopes with her in the model T. A weari-
some spoiling of good film. At Sydney
Plaza.
“Murder Man”
Spencer Tracy is “the murder man” —
a reporter specialising in crime. He is
frequently away from the office for
several days at a time on wild jags, re-
turning from these, however, as sober as
a bishop. He has a habit of picking up
Frank Leighton in "Jill, Darling.”
other people’s telephones and listening,
and whenever he listens he gets a big
scoop. He excels himself in a case in
which a swindling stockbroker was shot,
presumably by the broker’s partner.
Tracy knows every move in the case and
every detail of the trial before it happens.
At the end, of course, Tracy confesses
that he did the murder himself. There
is a suggestion that he’ll probably be
acquitted, as the broker was such a bad
egg, and that the way will be clear for
marriage with the office’s Dorothy Dix,
represented by Virginia Bruce. A little
mild humor helps to make the incred-
ible plot digestible. At Sydney Civic.
“Beyond the Law”
Opens with trial of a man for murder.
Tim McCoy, railway detective, is the
principal witness for the prosecution.
Shirley Grey is the prisoner’s lovely
daughter. After conviction Miss Grey is
able to point out to Mr. McCoy that
there are several defects in the circum-
stantial evidence that induced the jury
to doom pop to the hot squat. Together
the stern, grim sleuth and the beautiful
goil (she supplying the brains) track
down the real slayer, after some not very
thrilling though utterly improbable ad-
ventures. Action lags and acting is
wooden. Also at the Civic.
“Pursuit”
This erstwhile Civic attraction belongs
to the good old hue-and-cry school. The
hunted are Chester Morris and the
beauteous Sally Filers, The chivalrous
pair have undertaken to restore to a dis-
tracted mother her small boy, whom a
ridiculous legal verdict has placed in the
charge of an unpleasant relation. The
job necessitates kidnapping the boy and
smuggling him from California to
Mexico, where his mother awaits him.
Hero and heroine have to elude police,
frontier guards, private detectives, and
the usual quota of crooks, risking death
by fire, water, bullets and a locomotive,
and in the process lurv dawns. Flashes
of humor and bright acting illuminate
the proceedings and make the affair a
very entertaining lightweight.
“The Invisible Ray”
As Dr. Janos Rukh Boris Karloff is
on intimate terms with vibrations which
happen three-quarters of a million light
years away. With the aid of an impres-
sive-looking telescope Karloff takes his
friends on a photographic journey
through space, where they meet vibra-
tions out of the past and see a meteor hit-
ting Africa several million years ago,
Janos, his wife Diane (Frances Drake),
Dr. Benet (Bela Lugosi) and other
scientists go off to Africa, where Janos
finds the results of the meteor, dons an
asbestos suit and is lowered into a flam-
ing fissure, where he secures pieces of the
invisible ray. The ray can both destroy
and cure, but it makes a monkey out of
the scientist by causing him to glow like
phosphorus and giving him a death
touch, for which a temporary cure is in-
vented by Benet. Back in Paris Janos
goes mad and starts dissolving statues m
front of a startled populace. Also he
polishes off most of the scientists, but
spares Diane, by then married again.
Karloff manages his macabre part with-
out overacting, and the cameraman helps
to give the audience the jitters. Bela
Lugosi looks like his job, research in
astro-chemistry, and altogether the atmo-
sphere of imagination let loose on science
is well sustained. At Hoyt’s, Melbourne.
“Public Nuisance No. 1”
A riot of rot, with Frances Day, the
famous comedian Arthur Riscoe and
Claude Dampier (whom Australian audi-
ences will remember as the “perfect
idiot”) as chief fun dispensers. The plot
is pure farce, and the laughs assay well.
The scene shifts from London, where
Riscoe is leading a gay life as a club-
man, to Nice, whither he is sent to work
as a waiter at the Hotel Astoria, owned
by his uncle, his only source of income.
There he is joined by a girl who be-
friended him while on one of his London
“binges.” The fun becomes fast and
furious, culminating in uncle’s arrival
and a clever snap finish. The dialogue
is the snappiest for years, and many of
the gags are new. There are a few
songs, tolerably sung, and the situations
are sufficiently quick-moving and funny
to keep the average audience in a
simmer. Previewed at Sydney Prince
Edward.
“Street Singer’s Serenade”
Good singing, tuneful music, spectacu-
lar ballets and intelligent acting and
direction combine to make this one of
the brightest musical back-stagers yet
Bert Matthews in "Jill, Darling."
given to the screen. The story is slight,
but not without credibility. Bob Grant,
a kerbstone singer (Arthur Tracy), is
performing outside a London Follies
show on its opening night when, an hour
before he is due to go on, the Italian
tenor’s voice gives up the ghost. One of
the chorus, Marge Kay (Anna Neagle),
impressed with Bob’s voice, dashes out,
brings him in and literally pushes him
into the stage-manager’s arms. After
a 20-minutes’ rehearsal he faces his first
big audience, and the next morning, like
Byron, awakes to find himself famous.
He is lionised by Mayfair, but doesn’t
lose his head. He embarks on a trium-
phal tour of Europe, being trailed wher-
ever he goes by a wealthy society
woman who has fallen in love with him.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1.000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET. E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Divorce Notices.
iTO FRANCIS TRISTRAM COPELAND
formerly of Whangarei in New Zealand
but now of parts unknown Railway
Porter.
i TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Auckland citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of VIOLET MAY COPE-
LAND of Tangowahine in New Zealand Mar-
ried Woman wherein she prays for a divorce
from you on the grounds that you have been
guilty of desertion for three years or more
and such citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition and to pronounce sen-
tence thereon notwithstanding your absence
NOW THEREFORE take notice that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within forty-two
days from the Bth day of April 1936 being the
date of the last publication hereof in the
Sydney Bulletin newspaper to attend in person
or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Auckland and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings. A copy of the said cita-
tion and petition will be supplied to you on
your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Auckland or at the office of the
Sydney Bulletin newspaper.
DATED at Auckland this 20th day of
March, 1936.
(1.5.) A. E. DOBBIE,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. ROBERT URQUHART is
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of ROBERT URQU-
HART, Fourth Floor, Southern Cross Build-
ings, Chancery Street, in the City of Auckland.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 427 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNIE ELEANOR ELIZABETH
MOULDS Petitioner
And ARTHUR LESLIE MOULDS Re-
spondent.
TO ARTHUR LESLIE MOULDS late of 81
Simmons Street Enmore.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
ELEANOR ELIZABETH MOULDS has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the 19th day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
| your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be obtained on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
DATED this 20th day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C. M. MARSH AND HARVEY, Petitioner’s
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1929 of 1934.
BETWEEN LEONARD THOMAS
FREDERICK MANKTELOW Petitioner
And LOUISA MANKTELOW (formerly
Wheatley nee Malcolm) Respondent.
TO LOUISA MANKTELOW (formerly Wheat-
ley nee Malcolm) late of Narrandera.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LEONARD
THOMAS FREDERICK MANKTELOW has
commenced a suit against you in this Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion for three years
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
fifth day of June One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-six and in the event of your not
doing so_ within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
T. A. WHITELEY, Solicitor for Petitioner,
Orange; by his Agents, HOBBS AND
STONHAM. 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EFFICIENT EXILITY
SERVICE
plus style 9 comfort & economy
THE
1936
The 1936 Ford V-8 Utilities are designed and built for
the service demanded by to-day’s conditions. They have
many features and special equipment usually available
only at additional cost. Make your own comparison of
prices, dimensions and equipment. Your local Ford dealer
will arrange an “on-the-job” test. Easy purchase terms.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-8 UTILITIES
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
F59,' O.C
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB.
On his return his admirer is still
monopolising him, telling Marge, in a
frigid interview, that he is hers. Marge
cuts adrift, and achieves stardom off her
own bat. In a new edition of the Follies
she is to take Bob’s old part of a dere-
lict street singer. She gets stage fright
when facing the audience on the first
night, but Bob, who has been spirited
there by a friend of Marge’s, saves the
situation by walking on and singing for
her. Of course, all ends well. Arthur
Tracy has a nice light tenor, expressive
and well-controlled, and his acting is sat-
isfactory. Anna Neagle gives good sup-
port. The film assays more melody to
the foot than any for some time, and the
"Whistling Waltz” seems likely to loosen
a few front teeth before its popularity
wanes. Action is brisk, and there is
some clever dancing. Previewed at
Sydney Mayfair.
“Every Saturday Night”
Depicts a couple of evenings in the
home of a comfortably-fixed small-town
American citizen (Jed Prouty). He’s the
old-fashioned type of father, a bit hard
on the youngsters, but things happen that
awaken his sympathy for the rising gen-
eration. Events are commonplace and
natural, and the character-drawing of all
members of the family is clever—a bit
in the Dickens manner. The pater-
familias, at the end of a night full of
jolts and jars, is able to reflect that it’s
better to keep too tight a rein on house-
hold discipline than to dodge the job
altogether. June Lang and Thomas Beck
play 18-year-olds very convincingly, and
some younger members of the cast
are equally capable. Previewed at Fox
Theatrette, Sydney.
Some First Nights
Adelaide Repertory opened its 1936
season with “The Crime at Blossom’s,”
produced by Jack Ham, with an enor-
mous cast. Florence Browne had most
work in showing skilfully the gradual
deterioration of the young wife who,
shrinking at first from the atmosphere
of murder about the old house, makes a
pile of money by throwing the place open
and lecturing to gloating crowds. With
her were Llandaff Mathews as the charm-
ing but lazy husband, and Mimi Mattin
as the hard-working assistant who has to
give up scrubbing at the bloodstain and
touch it up with red paint instead.
Among a host of visitors neat touches
were given by Alex. Foster, Elizabeth
Campbell, Keith McDonald, Frank
Johnston, James Dowling and a literal
score of others.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An aspirant for the infant prodigy
pianistic laurels currently worn by
Philip Hargrave, nine-year-old David
Madison, pupil of Miss Shadforth
Hooper, showed his paces at Sydney
Con. hall one night last week. With
Sadie Irwin representing an orchestra at
a second keyboard the youngster ran
through Beethoven’s first pianoforte con-
certo from memory in excellent style.
Better suited to his age and tempera-
ment was Schubert’s A Flat Impromptu
and a group of Schumann’s “Kinder-
scenen.” Weber’s “Invitation to the
Waltz” gave an opportunity for exhibit-
ing a firm command of rhythm and a
good sense of dynamics.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Highlights of the chamber music con-
cert at Sydney Con., first of this year’s
series, were the very capable playing of
Beethoven’s Trio, Op. 70, by Lloyd Davies
(violin), Gladstone Bell (’cello) and
Frank Hutchens (piano), and a per-
formance by Phyllis McDonald and Mr.
Hutchens of Arnold Bax’s D Minor
Violin Sonata. The Bax work, very
modern in treatment, and programmatic,
made severe demands on the technique
and interpretative ability of both instru-
mentalists, who came through admirably.
4* 4* 4- 4*
Melbourne’s Cairns Memorial Players
undertook a tough proposition with
"Moonlight Is Silver.” This three-acter
is no credit to Clemence Dane, a play-
wright worthier of better things. The
theme is neurotic jealousy, the characters
are useless and humorless, there is no
attempt at subtlety in either plot or dia-
logue, and the ending is unsatisfactory
Dorothy Bush (Jo) and Frederick Trotter
(Stephen) tried hard, but they were un-
convincing. Miss Bush’s best work was
done when she gave up being warm and
clinging and became hard and cynical.
Her attempt at Gertrude Lawrence’s song
Moonlight Is Silver” would have been
more effective with a soft accompani-
ment. Frederick May was Charles, a
bouncing dim-wit; one quite understands
why Hermione had left him. Frank
Goddard played a vacuous author, Cli-
bert, and Beryl Weeks rolled her eyes
endlessly as friend-of-the-family.
4. .j. .j.
Helmuth Hoffman, whose pianoforte
recital at the Assembly Hal], Sydney, was
one of the musical e y ents ’ o( y | ast ” eek
wors hip s at old altars and treats Bach
BrahmS; Beethoven Lis2t and cho
with me ,i cu |ous respect. This critic liked
best his playi of Brahms . s version o£
Handel variations—very rich and solid
H is Chopin, too, is good-delicate lace
rather than pedal . blllrred amorphous
douds.
Current Artbursts
. t .. . c *
Australian artist Septimus Power has
returned from England with a large num-
°£ piCtUreS Pai " ,ed abr ° ad ’ 69 ° £
“Dad,” in Unk White’s show at the Macleod Gallery.
which in oils and water-colors he is ex-
hibiting at Melbourne Athenaeum. Mr.
Power has made his name as a painter
of animals, and horses, particularly big
grey draught horses, hacks and hunters,
full of life and action, figure in the
show. The artist uses strong lights. Sun-
light pours on to his largest canvas,
“London Street Scene,” represented by
four snlendid grey draught horses har-
nessed to a waggon near the Thames
Jtmpankment. ‘Vvrtillery, Jordan Valley,
Palestine,” depicts the heat and glare of
the arid, rock-strewn country, with men
and horses straining every muscle to pull
heavy guns over rough, steep hills that
have never known a road. “Goats” is
another example of clever and daring
treatment of light. “Lake Gwyant,
Wales,” is a well-constructed landscape.
“Polo,” a sketch, is one of the smallest
and best things in the show, and “Two
Spaniels” and “Turkeys” are other
examples of the artist’s versatility and
patience with difficult models. His
flower pieces are flamboyant and daz-
zlingly bright, for he knows all the tricks
of laying on paint with a palette knife.
His forceful “Gladioli” should be hung
in a big hall, while “Anemones,” on a
smaller canvas, is pleasing and no less
brilliant in craftsmanship.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Art in New Zealand” devotes its
principal article in the March issue to
the work of Maorilander Sydney L.
Thomson, a pupil of Van der Velden and
who afterwards studied at Julian’s, under
Bougereau. Prof. Shelley says Thomp-
son’s work is “a splendid epitome of all
the finest advances in painting work in
his generation,” Reproductions show that
Thompson’s style has become very much
broader and surer than it was when this
commentator first became acquainted
with his work, a quarter of a century
ago. It is now almost comparable in its
strength with the work of the talented
Dutchman who
was his first pre-
centor, and who
painted Fernland’s
turbulent moun-
tain streams with
such spirit that
those en rapport
with such scenes
could smell the
soaked vegetation
and hear the brawl-
ing of the torrent.
Tom L. Mills con-
tributes an article
on Dave Souter’s
bookplates.
4* 4* 4*
Edward Heffer-
nan’s first one-man
show at Margaret
Maclean’s Gallery,
Melbourne, con-
tains some distinc-
tive work. This
young artist, a
National Gallery
student, specialises
in water - color
paintings on silk
and linen, and
obtains a very
pleasing effect. “Phlox” (on tussore silk)
and “Nasturtiums” (on linen) are appeal-
ing in design and color. “The Beach,
St. Kilda,” has about it a pleasing sim-
plicity. There are also two oils, a small
group of lino.-cuts and a larger group of
pencil-drawings, all of promise.
* 4* 4* *
Landscapes and flower pieces by Miss
M. Holgate and Annie Gates are on
show at the Athenaeum Gallery, Mel-
bourne. Among Miss Holgate’s most
meritorious efforts are “Petunias” in
water-color, “The Dead Tree,” “Sunny
South,” “Roses and Pentstemons”
(against a creamy background) and the
lighting effects of “On the Sherbrooke
Road.” Her work is conscientious, but
her rendition of tone values is sometimes
obscure. Miss Gates exhibits 55 can-
vases, all in oils. She seems happiest in
flower studies, of which the most pleas-
ing are “Golden Emblem,” “Hydrangea”
and “Daffodils.” “The Open Road” is
charming.


[The Richardson Chain Hotel
2*3^
I H
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast- from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 CIO lines).
ROMANOFF CAVI
and RED KETA CAV
The favourite hors cl’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.; F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St.,
AR
I A H
at all
, Sydney-
k
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union-
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again:
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixperm)
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove even
corn, Whether big or little, hard or soft. AH'
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM'
WADE & DUERDINS. LTD., MELBOURNE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The week’s nicest party was at Quambi,
the Kelso Kings’ Edgecliffe home.
It was a hail-and-farewell to Colonel J.
L. Sleeman, chief commissioner of the
St. John’s Ambulance Brigade overseas.
This job keeps him popping out of one
continent into another, and constantly
circling the islands in between. From
here the Colonel, who is lean and
twinkling, went on to Tasmania. By
June 24 he’ll be back in England, lead-
ing his St. John’s Day forces. One ad-
mirer at the party said “he never sits
down.” But at any rate he doesn’t have
to stand when he’s dining in mess, for
he belongs to a regiment that drinks the
King’s health sitting down.
The colonel seemed to enjoy having
his photograph taken on the terrace.
No wonder —he had Mrs. John Maund,
Mrs. Bertie Kelly and Mrs. Hugh Poate
surrounding him. Mrs. Kelly’s black
cape was edged with chinchilla, her
frock was gentian blue, her toque wore
a veil and a feather mount. Mrs, Hugh
Poate’s frock was palely blue and soft
with grey fur. Her raven’s-wing blue
velour hat was tiny and shone like satin.
The hostess* was graceful in sapphire
blues. Her sleeves were wide and showed
under sleeves of pink-tinged lace. Olive
Kelso King’s chiffon frock wore its yoke
pleated and a tiny flat collar of pale
pink; Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones mixed
gardenias and silver fox. There were
150 guests.
This country has produced a Henry
Lawson and a Hilder, lifesavers and Test
cricketers, but has it produced a cordon
bleul The answer seems to be the im-
portation of four chefs for Sydney’s
latest restaurant. Milk and butter, beef
and mutton, fruits and vegetables are
here in a plenty that staggers the visitor
from other lands, but our ideas about the
cooking thereof, though improving, are
still considered a bit elementary. In
vain to say that good cookery isn’t neces-
sarily Continental cooking ; that the main
thing is to preserve the flavor of the
foodstuffs and to turn out appetising
meals. “Tush!” they say; “a chef is
essential. A chef is not just a cook ; he’s
an artist who plays upon the palate like
Kreisler on his violin.” But do the
owner of the delicately strung palate
and the proprietors of restaurants cater-
ing for such ever look for their food
necromancers in the great Australian
bush? Not they. They don’t even give
the Boy Scouts a chance!
One'Australian man had the makings
of a chef, but he also had the tempera-
ment of an actor. That was the late
Oscar Asche ; and the actor triumphed.
Still, Oscar turned out many a palatable
Sunday picnic lunch for himself and his
friends while he was in Australia. A
piece of work that he was very fond of
was the invention of a portable cooker
that was always tucked into the back of
the car on these Sunday jaunts. Oscar
had an older sister with a genius for
cookery.
Frances Scully returned to Sydney at
two o’clock last Wednesday, and by five
she was undergoing her second party,
with a third looming in the evening and
a welcome-home breakfast being got
ready for Thursday morning at the
Wentworth —the greeting of a group of
graduates of the Frances Scully school,
egged on by Tisty Grant Cooper. Frances
has come back a stone lighter, so now,
from being slender, she is willow slim.
Ballroom dancing—four hours a day of it
in Victor Sylvester’s studio —has done
the trick. Victor Sylvester is the last
word on ballroom style. It is his special
brand of rhumba that the Sydneyite has
acquired. Four classic ballets were going
in London when Miss Scully and her
friend Lorraine Norton were there, and
in all of them several of the stars were
British. In the ballet “Apparitions” at
Sadler’s Wells, Bobby Helpmann (one of
Sydney’s own) was a success as the poet
who is seen in the pursuit of ideal beauty.
The music of this is Liszt’s, arranged by
Constant Lambert. The star ballerina
was an English girl of 17, Margot
Fonteyn.
Frances Scully has now the distinction
of being an examiner for the Royal Aca-
demy of Dancing—the first Australian
to be so accredited. To prove her capa-
bilities she had to examine five pupils
of different grades. While she was doing
so there were four other examiners, and
Genee (she is the head of this school of
classic ballet) also present. Miss Scully
marked her papers and wrote her com-
ments. Each of the examiners did like-
wise. Then all the papers were taken
away, and it was not till she reached
Australian waters that the news of her
success reached her. Monte Luke photo-
graph.
A new style in ecclesiastical millinery
has been introduced to Australia by the
Apostolic Delegate, Archbishop Panico.
It is bowler in shape, and will probably
prove popular with the young clergy.
The Delegate, although he had heard
much of us from Cardinal Cerretti and
Archbishops Cattaneo and Bernardini, is
still a little surprised at Australia’s
achievements in her century and a half.
St. Mary’s Cathedral won his genuine
admiration, and he was so pleased with
the warmth of his civic reception that
he never ceased smiling. He told of the
beautiful bejewelled monstrance that the
Cerretti family is sending to the Cerretti
Memorial Chapel at Manly.
Those women who were close enough
to note the beauty of the design could
not but marvel at the lace on the surplices
of Archbishop Kelly and the Apostolic
Delegate when the latter made his official
entry into St. Mary’s. Long before the
Delegate’s arrival there was scarcely
standing room on the wide stone steps of
the cathedral. Over 3000 were present
at this ceremonial welcome, and school-
children formed the guard of honor to
the high entrance. Here Archbishop
Kelly, in cope and mitre, met him with
extended crucifix. After kissing the
cross, on a great wave of “Tu es Petrus, ’
sung by the choir of St. Patrick’s Col-
lege, the Apostolic Delegate walked into
the cathedral and up its aisle, blessing
the people as he went. He entered the
sanctuary to the intoning of the “Te
Deum.” The sanctuary was crowded
with clergy—archbishops, bishops, mon-
signori and priests.
Lucky the Sydney florists who get the
Prince Edward Theatre orders. The
vestibule on Saturday night was massed
with rose and lily and the magnificent
opulence of dahlias. The programme-
sellers and girl attendants brought a whiff
of Old Spain translated into Mexican in
their costumes. Their frocks billowed
from little tight bodices into skirts that
were frills from hem to waist. One in
snow-white wore a high hair-comb and a
mantilla; another, in black, looped her
hair with red roses ; a third was in rose-
patterned moires. All wore a small dark
cross on a gold neck chain. Circle and
stalls were filled with crowds of Sydney’s
cash-downs and carry-forwards.
Everywhere indeed on Saturday there
were hurrying joy-seekers. A string of
cars leaped out to Pagewood, on the
borders of Maroubra, where “The Flying
Doctor” was celebrating his final shot
with a party. “Informal,” the inviteds
were told in a hurried telephone rally on
Saturday morning. After Hugh Denison
(he is chairman of directors of National
Studios) and producer Miles Mander had
got their speeches off, all was enjoyment
set to the tune of the Trocadero band.
Interest circled about principals Charles
Farrell, Jimmy Raglan, Joe Valli, Bris-
bane’s pretty Mary Maguire, in grey
slacks and a green pullover, and Mar-
garet Vyner. Still another group danced
at Romano’s, farewelling Joy Howarth,
who goes off in the Monterey to seek
fame in Hollywood. Joy was the heroine
of “The Squatter’s Daughter,” is pretty,
unspoiled, and has a good manner. The
Derek Williams couple gave the party,
and one of the guests was John Fox, of
London. His wife is Zelda Fox, an Eng-
lish actress, who played in the screen
version of “The Beloved Vagabond.”
Crowds of polo fans found the long
green sweep of Kyeemagh a pleasant
spot on Saturday afternoon, and not all
of them had gone out just to see film-
actor Charles Farrell, in his buff
breeches, dashing about on a borrowed
pony. After the match (the team in
which Farrell played won), Charles re-
marked that the play was as good as
any in California. Isn’t that a nice bit
for the Ashtons to put in their cuttings-
book? The afternoon was hot and
sunny, so tea was quite a picnic affair.
Mrs. Ashton, senior, with daughters-in-
law Mrs. James, junior, and Mrs. Geoff,
was, of course, at the game. Mrs. James,
junior, wore a dusty pink felt with her
navy silks, and Mrs. Geoff added a red-
striped scarf to her off-white linen suit.
The swing-back red coat worn by Mrs.
Muriel Mackay over her red-and-white
checks was one of the smartest outfits.
Lorna Searl’s grey suit was reinforced
with navy. Ann Gordon fitted into the
pastorale in flowered silks and a shady
hat.
Bill Ramsay came down from Queens-
land to the chapel of his old school,
King’s, Parramatta, for his linking with
Betty, daughter of the medical W. B.
Dights, of Rose Bay. Bill’s mother is
Lady Ramsay, widow of Scottish baronet
Herbert Ramsay. The white chiffon
frock was Grecian in design, the side
pieces shirred diagonally, the fulness,
drawn to the front, fell in grace-
ful folds. It had a train like an elon-
gated snowdrift. Masses of tulle helped
this effect. White tiger-lilies were the
bride’s flowers. ’Groom’s sister Dickie
swung a rope of fuchsias and delphiniums
against her ’maid’s attire of softest blue.
Cobham, the Hunter’s Hill home of
Betty’s aunt, Mrs. H. S. Lloyd, rang with
the congratulations and the toasts. Mrs.
W. B. Dight hostessed in black lace.
This is a picture taken by Monte Luke
of Joan White, daughter of the James
Whites, of Edinglassie, Muswellbrook.
As this Letter was being mailed to the
world, Miss White was in St. Mark’s,
Darling Point, promising to be Mrs.
Fred Moses, of Killara.
Over one thousand mothers, represent-
ing every parish of the diocese, left their
household cares and went to St. Andrew’s
to lift their voices in hymns at the
annual festival of the Mothers’ Union.
This was a special occasion for the
union, for it was its diamond jubilee.
The union choir (there were representa-
tives from fifty branches in it) led the
singing. They were a picturesque group
in their white frocks and blue and gold
veils. Archbishop Mowll gave an address
on the necessity of family life. Dean
Talbot sent a special message, and later
there was a great tea-drinking at the
Chapter House.
On the night when the sympathetic met
at the Carlton to help buy a talkie
machine for Gladesville Mental Hospital,
Mrs. Hayes-Cordell, in a two-piece of
white satin, and Mrs. R. L Cassidy, in
black velvet, shepherded the visitors into
the big music-room, where the pro-
gramme enticed the bridge-players from
their legitimate pursuits. George Emanuel
was busy with his announcements, and
looked pleased to present Gladys Verona,
who was like a porcelain shepherdess in
pink and silver, and who sang with grace
and charm. Roderic Quinn, silver-haired
and blue-eyed, read a poem by his old
mate Henry Lawson on fnateship, and
his own poem, “The Camp Within the
West.” Warwick and Ella MacKenzie,
Elsie Condon and others rounded out the
programme, and then everyone trooped
down to the lounge for the always-wel-
come sausage and coffee.
News from Los Angeles is that Helen
Twelvetrees, the American film actress
recently imported to play lead in the
Australian film “Thoroughbred,” has filed
a petition in divorce against husband
Frank Woody. When Helen travelled to
Australia, husband was an inconspicuous
part of her entourage. By old stage
tradition an unwed heroine is supposed
to have a more romantic lure for fans
than a married one, and Mr. Woody
seems to have been, from a managerial
standpoint, on the “not-wanted-on-the-
voyage” list. Anyway in limelight that
beat on his wife’s welcome to Sydney
Frank had not a one candle-power beam.
He came down the ship’s gangway as
immune from public interest as an Indian
woman in purdah.
Mrs. Woody’s publicity managers for
at least two days were quite coy about
admitting her husband’s existence. How-
ever, matrimony will out, and at a ball
a night or so after their arrival, Helen
Twelvetrees being the guest of honor,
Mr. Woody was seated in a group of
knights and Judges and their ladies sur-
rounding his wife. Mr. Woody’s depar-
ture was as unostentatious as his arrival.
When he left to do some deep-sea fish-
ing in Maoriland it was barely recorded
in the newspapers.
The soft fur felts called by some Cure
and by some Homburg are one of the
easiest-to-wear styles of this season’s
hats. Of course, they only go with cos-
tumes or topcoats, but when they are
finished off with a spotted veil drawn
tight under the chin (in the way of the
belle of the ’nineties) they are an easy
winner in the hatrack handicap. Handi-
cap’s the word with a good deal of the
headgear. Little wisps of black velvet
running to a peaked crown have some-
times a long feather drooping down al-
most shoulder-length and then curving
up towards the chin—the sort of thing
that would look ravishing on the prin-
cipal boy in a panto. Sometimes these
bits of black velvet provide quite half an
inch brim protection to one eye. And
always a veil can be worn. Sometimes
this is bunched at the back ; sometimes
if is just eye-length.
Hatter’s plush, black velvet and fur
felt are the most recurring materials;
feather mounts and a stab of diamente
are good. Quills are worn flat on crown
or brim, and are sometimes cut out of
black patent leather. Some of the French
houses have even turned out a
modernised version of grandmothers
bonnet, but these are not likely to be
seen in Sydney. A woman just back
from New York tells of a hat seen at a
cocktail party. It was halo in outline,
and the halo was entirely composed of
soft white feather tightly curled. Fan-
shaped pleated jabots of white net,
bordered with lace, incidentally, will lift
a black woollen dress into the to-be-re-
membered class. .
Everybody is pleased over the appoint-
ment of Dr. Margaret Harper to the Hos-
pitals Commission. The vacancy occurred
on the death of Mrs. R. R. S. MacKinnon,
and Dr. Margaret by her works is emi-
nently fitted for it. A graduate of Syd-
ney Uni., the doctor has been a member
of the Council of the Royal Society for
the Welfare of Mothers and Babes since
its beginnings, and is hon. medical
director to the Tresillian Mothercratt
Society. She is on the honorary staff
of the Royal Alexandra Hospital for
Children, and conducts the mothercraft
department of the Women’s Hospital at
Paddington. The medico’s father was for
some time principal of St. Andrews
College.


PETTYS
York St. Sydney.
PETTY’S at SYDNEY
People stay at Petty's when they visit Sydney.
You, too, would like Petty's lor its quiet com-
fort, the perfect service, excellent cuisine and
moderate tariff. Room and Breakfast from 11/6.
Inclusive, 18/-. Wire or write for reservations.
ms
GROUND SHARP TO
STAY SHARP
Ohe pafiutajL Sumitcm (rioude
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HIGH-CLASS STOKES AND JEWELLERS /
Melbourne
chatter
The combined branches of the Prince
Henry’s Hospital younger circle held their
first dance of the year at the Ormond
Hall. This group was formed only last
year, when an unusual number of girls
were making their debut, many lads were
invited to be their partners and Kath-
leen Lascelles was putting the majority
of them through their paces for deep
curtsies and the lancers. About the same
time there was a movement sponsored
by the headmistresses of girls’ public
schools for a concerted effort to rebuild
the girls’ ward at Prince Henry’s Hos-
pital. It is hoped to accomplish this and
to maintain the ward when it is com-
pleted. Several thousands of pounds are
required, but there are already several
hundred in hand, so the younger circle
has made a satisfactory start.
To the Ormond Hall dance Kathleen
Lascelles wore orchid satin with a
rippling cape and fluting upon the skirt.
She’ll be busier than ever among girls’
schools in future, for she has just ac-
quired the dancing connection of Miss
M. Montgomery (who sailed for
America on Saturday with her sister,
Mrs. Lort Smith). Patricia Haynes, who
was one of the ticket secs., wore a honey-
colored floral frock with green paillettes
upon the shoulders. Dorothy Coxen’s
white crepe frock had a narrow basque
and a silver girdle amidships. Alyson
Wellman was also in white, with em-
broideries in the vicinity of her ankles.
Sky-blue sprinkled with silver was the
choice of Stella Charles, and pink taffeta
and puffy sleeves of Betty Henry.
Dorothy Trapp’s deep pansy-purple dress
showed narrow pleats running down the
back of the corsage. Jana Johnson, of
the straight black fringe, wore pink satin
with a nest of gathers at the back of the
kneeline. Mrs. Victor Holmgren, of
Sydney, was a tall attractive figure in her
frock of flowered silk vanessa made with
narrow bands of laced pipings across the
back of the shoulders and a ribbon
attachment for the manoeuvring of her
train.
Representatives of Spain, Finland and
Wales were hostesses recently at the In-
ternational Club. Each of these inter-
national afternoons seems to be more
crowded than the last, and chairs were
again at a premium. Speaking about
Spain, the country of his birth, Stephen
Morell mentioned, among other things,
a word of warning about the discomforts
of train travelling in the south in summer.
Mr. Hytonen, who has lived only six
months in Australia, spoke of his coun-
try, Finland, and Miss Llewellyn
claimed for her native Wales Lloyd
George, Augustus John and a high per-
centage of the best legal brains in the
Empire. Afterwards tea was accom-
panied by savories, cakes and sandwiches
made from Spanish, Finnish and Welsh
recipes. During the speeches there was
a brief but diverting interlude for people
sitting near the balcony door, when some
sparsely-clad athletes practised physical
jerks upon a fire-escape balcony.
Among the guests were Dr. and Mrs.
Xipell, lately returned from a trip to
Spain, and Mrs. XipelTs mother, Mrs.
Gras-y-Fort, who was accompanied by
her second daughter, Sarita. Sarita is not
yet sure of her wedding date—vaguely it’s
within three months. She is never sur-
prised at the sudden decisions made by
her fiance, Dr. John O’Sullivan, who is
liable at any moment to request her to
pack a suitcase and be at the church
within an hour.
Ruth Ward and Paul Brown, who were
married at All Saints’, Kooyong, em-
barked for Tasmania two days later.
They will live at Ellenthorpe, a fine old
colonial homestead in the Midlands near
Ross. The house has been vacated by Mr.
and Mrs. George Brown, who will in
future make their home in Launceston.
Ellenthorpe is situated in a rich pas-
toral district where the number of sheep
to the acre is enough to excite the envy
of any Australian pastoraiist, and the
properties, though small, are very valu-
able. There is plenty of golf and tennis
all the year round, and hunting in the
winter, and every house has its beautiful
garden full of English flowers protected
from the wind by fine old English trees.
It’s a very beautiful corner of the world.
“She’s small but she’s strong” is the
invitation of the liftman when he packs
people with breathing room only into
the Athenaeum elevator on afternoons of
art-show openings. The lift, with no ob-
vious puffings and blowings, worked hard
to fill the gallery on the first day of H.
Septimus Power’s exhibition. At first it
seemed as if the impossible had hap-
pened ; that the Lord Mayor had written
the date on the wrong page of his
appointment-book, but he arrived eventu-
ally and was shown the pictures by the
artist before mounting the dais for his
short speech. Harold Power was in the
throng ; he and his hack were the sub-
jects of one of his father’s equestrian
pictures. Harold understands and appre-
ciates painting, but he likes dancing
better, and has studied both ballroom
and stage dancing in London. Mrs.
Turnbull, who is Mr. Power’s niece, in-
spected the exhibits with particular in-
terest, as did R. Kiddle, the biggest man
in the room. Dr. and Mrs. Bullet Allen
were noticed ; also Mrs. A. Moore, who
wore a grey angora coat and a grey hat
with a visor brim. Mrs. Val Blogg was
in blue, Mrs. Cedric Battle chose a brown
straw hat with a burst of brown-and-
white checks as a neckpiece, and Mrs.
Lennox Spiers was in black, with a tuft
of feathers in her black shovel hat.
Here is Jean Robertson, who, in pur-
suit of her scientific studies, sails off in
the Port Auckland on April 3. Miss
Robertson, who is a M.Ag.Sc., plans to
do research at Cambridge and perhaps
later in Germany. To carry out the pro-
gramme ahead of her she wifi be away
from Melbourne tor at least a year.
Broothorn made the portrait.
Where do surgical gowns and masks
for the big public hospitals come from?
Nat all out of general funds, for every
list, even of necessities required, is cut
down to a minimum; but charity
workers rise to the occasion and include
surgeons’ overalls among their sewing.
The Time and Talents Guild, which
assists many charitable societies, met
recently in the hall of Toorak kirk to
hear of the activities of its various
branches. The Melbourne Hospital
branch, convened by Miss Greig, has
completed 350 articles .for patients and
operating theatre ; the Children’s Hospi-
tal branch, convened by Mrs. Henty, has
provided and repaired over 15,000 gar-
ments. The senior and junior branches,
gathered together by Mrs. Leslie Jenner
and Mrs. Ken Rutter Clarke, have also
acquitted themselves satisfactorily. Blind
folk, too, have been helped considerably
by Miss B. Peebles and her Braille trans-
lators, and Miss Turner, who holds the
key of the clothing cupboard, reports that
nearly 3000 garments have been delivered
to individual cases needful of help. Books
and magazines have been collected and
distributed through the Victoria League.
After 17 years’ absence from her native
land, Australian soprano Margaret Jewell
(Mrs. Burridge), whose photograph ap-
pears below, will be heard at the Town
Hall. Miss Jewell’s repertoire includes
songs in several languages, among them
Welsh. Melba advised the young singer
in her student days at Albert-street to
make a specialty of Welsh folk songs.
When the singer broadcast Australian
songs from London during the centenary
the most excited listener in the world was
her young daughter Beryl, who in Mel-
bourne was hearing her mother’s voice
for the first time within her memory.
Beryl was only three when her mother
left to pursue her career in South Africa
and afterwards in England.
As will be noted by the portrait, Mar-
garet looks very young to possess a 20-
year-old daughter, and her looks are a
particular credit to her. She had a seri-
ous accident 12 years ago. Long treat-
ments and walking with her leg in irons
would have excused a line or two upon
her face, but they don’t seem to have
appeared even yet. The injured foot is
responding to special treatment in Mel-
bourne at such a satisfactory rate that
the singer is once more looking forward
to the days when she will go for a five-
mile tramp every morning before break-
fast.
The committee of people interested in
the drama is going ahead with plans for
a national theatre. Very soon it will
appeal to the City Council with a re-
quest for a slice of land, to the Govern-
ment for a share in the entertainments
tax and to the A.B.C. for co-operation
in broadcasting performances. The.
theatre is intended for use in the produc-
tion of opera, drama, repertory concerts
and children’s entertainments. Gertrude
Johnson, whose enthusiasm started the
movement, has been elected an hon. life
member, J. Hume Cook is president and
other important office-bearers are
Ambrose Pratt, Mrs. Harry Emmerton,
Mrs. Britomarte James, Profs. Brown
and Heinze, Isabel Felstead and Daphne
Munro.
With pain in their eyes the conserva-
tive and non-progressive are glaring at
Mr. Clapp’s new boat-train, which can
be seen in the Jolimont yards. The train,
which is a bright blue with shiny alu-
minium finishings, will run down to Port
Melbourne on mail-boat days to give
overseas travellers a nice cheerful first
impression of our city. Well, why not
more color? It will have to come. The
boat-train makes the rest of the railway
vehicles look drab.
A Russian cook who is always ad-
dressed as Madame Sophia Chrysanthe-
mum, a peacock and a peahen known
by the curious names of Mr. and Mrs.
Taylor, and a pet owl' which likes to go
for a walk on its mistress’s shoulder are
part of the domestic life of Mr. and Mrs.
Sidney Loch, who for the last three years
have lived in Greece. Mrs. Loch, who
was Joyce Nankivell, is the only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. George Nankivell, of
Mordialloc, and is a cousin of golfers
Betty and Peggy Nankivell.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Loch are writers
of standing. The initials J.M.N., which
often appear in “Blackwood’s Magazine,”
belong to Mrs. Loch, who also has novels
to her credit, is clever at languages, and
a competent organiser and designer. By
the time she became fluent in modern
Greek she had decided that the Grecian
maidens of the village of Chalkihiki
hadn’t enough to do. Enlisting an old
man who knew all about weaving rugs,
and another who had learned the secrets
of vegetable dyes, with herself as designer
and the village girls as “hands,” she
started an industry of hand-made rugs.
Buying an island and stocking it with
Angora rabbits is another experiment in
the offing.
The Lochs live in a most intriguing
house on the coast at the foot of Mt.
Athos, It’s an old stone dwelling-place
which seems to consist primarily of tall,
square tower. They own a yacht in
which they cruise romantically about the
Isles of Greece, and whenever they feel
like “town” life occupy for a change
their furnished flat in Salonika. There’s
a coincidence about the birthdays of this
pair, who first met during their under-
grad. days in Melbourne. Mr. Loch was
born on Jan. 24 in the North of England
—at exactly the same time to the hour
the girl who afterwards became his wife
was born in the north of Queensland.
The winner of the Mollison Travelling
Scholarship, this year awarded in
Japanese, is T. W. Eckersley, who will
have his arts degree conferred at com-
mencement. The bursary is worth
approximately £230, and the successful
candidate will leave to take advantage
of it at the end of the year. Prof.
Russo, who was also a Japanese Molli-
son winner of several years ago, will
doubtless be of great assistance to Mr.
Eckersley, The professor, Australian by
birth and Italian by parentage, has a
position in Tokio in an advisory capacity
to the Japanese Government. But things
were not always so easy for him. After
the scholarship funds were exhausted he
stayed on in Japan, and experienced all
sorts of hardships and disappointments
before he managed to earn enough
money to keep himself. Before his
present appointment he was for many
years a lecturer at Tokio Uni., and is still,
on the staff of that institution.
Since its inauguration at the death of
W. T. Mollison in 1884, many changes
and adjustments have been made in the
Mollison award. For a time the scholar-
ship was given in French every three
years. In 1917 it was won in Arabic, and
in 1924 (the last year in which the sylla-
bus included Oriental languages) it was
given in Hindustani. 1914 was the date
of the last German Mollison, shared by
two women, and women were winners
in Italian in both 1929 and 1932. There
is to be further change at the end of this
year, when candidates may sit in French,
German or Italian, but only one
scholarship will be awarded. A Mollison
winner is expected to go to the country
of his chosen language within a certain
time, where he must study and acquit
himself with credit. Private means and
the rate of exchange are big factors in
the time a scholarship-holder spends
abroad.
It is a coincidence that the Mollison
Scholarship in Japanese should be
scheduled for the year that there was a
definite trend of interest in the language.
More students than ever before have en-
rolled for Japanese classes, some giving
up French and Italian to make time for
one of the most difficult tongues in the
world. Professor Inagaki, Melbourne’s
teacher of Japanese, in addition to his
lectures and tutoring, conducts a weekly
Japanese session over 3AR.
Our artists are up in arms over the
design of the new 10s. note. The man
in the street complains about the note’s
similarity to a £lO note, while hoping in
his heart that he might collect a tenner
by mistake. But the odds are long
against him, for the banks have for some
time been collecting and keeping the old
tenners.


Personal and Missing Friends.
ROBERT ROBERTSON (late of Waterloo,
Liverpool, Eng.). Parents very anxious to have
news of. Address: 37 Wesley Street, Waterloo,
Liverpool 22, England.
TO MARY TURNER (formerly MARY
EYERS), believed to have been born at King-
ston or elsewhere in the Bendigo district, Vic-
toria, about 1860, and last heard of carrying
on a business in one of the suburbs of Sydney,
New South Wales, and who is a stepsister
of JAMES EYERS, late of Narrandera, Re-
tired Grazier, deceased. Will the abovenamed
or anyone knowing her whereabouts kindly
communicate with the PERPETUAL TRUS-
TEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney?
mu
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest picture*
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.; 87971.
The Mecca of all Show Visitors
*. r-
w.
■
*1
*
HOTEL MANSIONS
Situated in the heart of
Sydney s social centre, within
convenient distance of the
Show, the Hotel Mansions
is THE place to stay when
down for the ROYAL.
Delightful cuisine, courteous
service, luxurious surround-
ings, your every wish antici-
pated at the Hotel Mansions.
Moderate Tariff.
Reservations day and night.
Phone:
F 2191
(4 lines)
Hotel Mansions
KING'S CROSS, SYDNEY
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Karrakatta Club put on a morn-
ing-tea for members to view the re-
modelled premises. The cream-and-green
facade, its foundations flush with the
pavement, rises to a roof-garden, gay on
this occasion with striped umbrellas, tubs
of amaranthus and cool green seats. The
new L-shaped lounge, with its toe form-
ing the strangers’ room —cream and green
again to the fore—was liberally strewn
with standard lamps, masses of flowers
and gold cushions. Green runs riot in
the kitchens and bathrooms ; blue holds
its own in the cardroom and bedrooms,
and beige mingles with brown in the
dining- and rest-rooms. Hordes rolled up
for the reopening, when president Mrs.
D. D. Paton took the helm in trim navy-
and-white silk crepes.
At the first hint of cooler weather
young people commenced social activi-
ties. The Mt. Lawley fry’s dance at the
Stirling Institute was preceded by a
dinner party given by committee mem-
bers in honor of their president, Betty
Cuthbert, who is booked for a holiday
in Fiji. Her frock was a neatly-cut
sheath of sapphire-blue matt crepe. Joan
Firth looked after the treasury in chenille
spot white georgette, Audrey Barnard
ran a silver stripe down her cornflower-
blue satin, and Amorelle Howard-Bath
grew mixed flowers on her soft-pink
chiffons. Red-and-white-plaid taffetas
swished on Marjorie Sinclair, Doreen
Dudley’s black silks were coin-spotted
with green, and Kathleen Pearson did
secretarial duties in self-striped black
satin with a gold rose perched on the
shoulder.
David Powell provided the lion’s share
of the music to which the Kylie Club’s
programme was devoted. With Evelyn
Shotter he gave four violin duets by Bach
and a three-movement duo of Mozart, in
which he changed his instrument to a
viola. He was associated with Evelyn
Willis at the piano and Val Robertson’s
’cello in Edward Lalo’s “Symphonic
Espagnole."’ Eileen Kenniwell and Lilian
Turner raised their voices in combination,
and the Darlington quartet gave four-
somes by nineteenth- and twentieth-
century composers.
Learned folk hurried along to the
Embassy for the University Women’s
luncheon, where Molly Kingston’s honey
crepe was in the presidential chair. Lady
Hosie, in a trim navy-and-white
ensemble, Miss P, K. Leveson, with black
toin-spots on her white crepe de Chine,
and Mrs. A. G. B. Fisher, a symphony
in nigger-brown, were the honored guests.
Fremantle residents rallied in the
Mayor’s parlor, whither they were in-
vited to take tea with Mrs. F. E. Gibson
in honor of Mrs. R. B. Campbell, who
is off to England and the Continent. The
hostess was girt with becoming navy-blue
matelasse, and the departing one nestled
presentation autumn-tinted flowers
against black-and-white figured marocain.
Queensland’s C.W.A. treasurer, Mrs.
Sterne, passed through Fremantle in the
Hobson’s Bay, Her navy-blue-and-white
georgettes were whisked to the Karrakatta
Club, where this State’s C.W.A. presi-
dent, Mrs. Archie Burt, fluttered her
floral green voiles at the head of a table
set for morning-tea.
Mrs. Le Tessier (Anita Fitz Gerald), for
many years connected with the stage in
Perth and past-president of the Elocu-
tion Teachers’ Association, quits Aus-
tralia soon to join her husband in Lon-
don. Invitations are out for many fare-
well functions; Marjorie Butler enter-
tained at a miscellaneous evening, Mary
Meares is to pour afternoon-tea, the
Shakspeare Club has a shivoo in hand,
and Fellows of Trinity College, London,
gave her a dinner at the Metropole.
Mabel Leather garnished the municipal
chambers with multicolored dahlias, and
invited friends to morning-tea to meet
Claude Reading’s lady. Miss Leather’s
white cloque cape ensemble went with
striped navy blouse, and the guest sported
a navy-and-white spotted frock with plain
navy coat. The Reading lady’s daughter,
Mrs. Heath, had a touch of red on white
matelasse with blue stars.
A Women’s Art Society has been
formed and a two-week exhibition
planned for late autumn. Mrs. Cardell-
Oliver, M.L.A., is the president, Mar-
garet Saunders is convener of the pic-
torial section, and Mrs. Yorke Pepper is
to look after the applied arts.
Nancy Hollingsworth has promised her
heart and hand to William Paterson, of
the Malay States.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Lady Mayoress Dunstan entertained
the wives of Chamber of Commerce con-
ference delegates at afternoon-tea. Roses
decked her charming room at the Town
Hall. Mayor Cain received with his
daughter, and then business called him
away. Mrs. Dunstan’s black wool maro-
cain was trimmed with narrow bands of
black cire ribbon, a wide bow of which
appeared on her black felt hat. Guests
from other States included Mrs. W. Berry
(Melbourne) in navy georgette with vest
of fawn chiffon, Mrs. R. Muir (Brisbane)
in pale-blue silk with fawn summer
ermine, Mrs. Heritage (Tasmania) in a
navy georgette, and Mrs. Dudley
Cameron (Brisbane) frocked in dusky-
pink crepe de Chine with nutria fur.
The wife of the Adelaide president (Mrs,
S. McGregor Reid) wore a white crepe
with short-cape effect. Mrs. Lance
Lewis’s pink marocain was patterned
with brown daisies, and Mrs. J. H.
Gosse’s brown-and-white flowered silk
was worn beneath a brown wool georg-
ette coat. The same evening Mesdames
S. McGregor Reid, J. H. Gosse, Lance
Lewis and T. A. Corbin gave a dinner at
the Queen Adelaide Club and made up a
theatre party for the wives of the dele-
gates afterwards.
The meeting of the Music Salon at
Birk’s Piccadilly was an opportunity to
say farewell to Prof, H. G. Wilkinson,
who has been president of the Salon since
its inception. He is leaving for Brisbane
to take the Chair of Anatomy at Queens-
land Uni. A welcome was also extended
to Stanilaus de Tarczynski and to Mr.
and Mrs. William Cade, who have re-
turned to Adelaide after an absence of
several years. The programme included
a talk on “Music and Heredity” by
Clement Harris.
At St. Peter’s College Chapel Max,
son of Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Chandler, of
St. Kilda, Melbourne, exchanged vows
with Peggy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
George Herbert, of Kadina. Magnolia
satin clad the bride, who had one of the
new Juliet caps, in pearls, to keep her
tulle veil in place. Bridesmaid Nancy
Piper’s pale-pink silk net was topped by
a Juliet cap of pink sequins bordered with
dull gold.
Mrs. Frank Willcox, Medindie, enter-
tained the members of the executive and
advisory committees of the Music Salon
at a cocktail party as a setting for a
presentation to Prof. Wilkinson.
A civic reception was accorded to H.
Duncan Hall, liaison officer from the
League of Nations to the British
Dominions. Roses and deep-crimson
dahlias decorated the room. Women pre-
dominated among the guests, and many
smart frocks were worn. Mrs. F. A.
Tennant, who was present with her hus-
band, looked well in a dahlia-red wool
suit, the coat having fringed ends to the
stole collar. With it she wore a black
Australian velour hat.
To put some shekels into C.W.A.
coffers two tennis tournaments were
arranged. One, engineered by Isobel
Ritchie and Phylis Crompton, was held
on Mrs. H. S. Hudd’s court at Glenelg,
and the other was at Kalymna, the home
of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Holden.
A farewell party was given by the
Moulden lady at Lordello, Brougham
Place, for her daughter, Patricia Hackett,
and Dr. Mildred Mocatta, who left for
England in the Port Melbourne. The
hostess received her guests gowned in
gold brocade. Miss Hackett’s black
georgette was relieved with diamente, and
Dr. Mocatta chose a deep sapphire-blue
toilette. Miss Hackett was responsible
for the varied programme that had been
arranged to entertain the guests. There
were about 60 present.
Mrs. H. A. Powell and her two daugh-
ters were the guests of honor at an after-
noon party arranged by Mrs. W. Inglis
(president of the St, Alban’s Sanctuary
Guild) to enable members to wish Mrs.
Powell and her family bon voyage. Dr.
Powell with his wife and daughters leave
early this month on a trip to England.
Mrs. R. A. Roake presented Mrs. Powell
with a crystal scent spray.
The Lyceum Club, after nine years on
North-terrace, has moved its quarters to
the eighth floor of the new C.M.L. Build-
ing in King William-streef. The club
vacated the old rooms at 11.30 a.m., and
by lunchtime members were installed in
their new premises.
TASMANIA.
The A. C. Walches threw open their
picturesque old garden at Sumner Home,
and dispensed hospitality to a big crowd
to help celebrate the Davey-street Con-
gregational Church’s centenary. Mrs.
Walch’s father, the Rev. George Clarke,
was for over 50 years minister of the
church. All sorts of old relics and heir-
looms were on view in the house, among
them the wedding dress of the wife of
the first parson.
Campbell Town’s tennis and croquet
tournament attracted a crowd represen-
tative of a wide district. R. R. Field
and Molly Hoskins came off first in the
A-grade tennis, with Dr. Munro and
Mrs. D’Arcy Seddon runners-up.
Croquet doubles were won by Mrs.
Lewis Dowling and A. E. Jones; M.
Falkiner and Miss H. Taylor, runners-
up. A dance at Powell’s Hall wound up
the show, with Mollie and Dorothy
Mackinnon as secretaries.
Mrs. G. E. Donelly lent her home to
the committee of the 86 Club for a jolly
party. Philip Harbottle was secretary,
and though the day turned cold and
spoilt the out-of-doors programme,
games, competitions, tea and so forth
indoors profited club funds.
To help the Victoria League the
George Arthurs lent their historic old
home, Entally, Hadspen, for a party
which drew a huge crowd from Laun-
ceston and the surrounding district. The
committee presented the host and hostess
with a water-color sketch of Mount
Arthur at the end of the afternoon.
Simultaneously Mrs. R. C. Field, Mrs.
D. M. Annear, Mrs. C. A. H. Youl and
Miss Greig were responsible for a bridge
gathering of Victoria Leaguers at the
Launceston Hotel.
Wilga, the Harvie Thompsons’ eldest
girl, is home again after two years’ trip
in Europe. Twenty friends gave her a
welcome-home dance at the Imperial.
Mrs. E. A. Peacock, and Margaret,
who have flitted to Sydney, said good-
bye to their friends at a cocktail party
in their house. Mrs. Peacock was in
brown, and Margaret’s frock of navy and
red had a smart dark-blue hat to sur-
mount it.
Wanda Piesse was hostess at a cocktail
party at Hadley’s to say good-byes to
Ciceley Davies, bound for England. The
young hostess was in black-and-blue-
flecked heavy silk, and wore a small,
chic hat. Miss Davies wore navy and
white with a big navy hat.
Mrs. James Murray entertained a
bunch of women friends at an evening
bridge party at the Queen Mary Club.
The rooms were brilliant with late lovely
blooms of gladioli and dahlias, and the
hostess wore a picturesque turnout in
grey-and-mauve-shot silky stuff, with
touches of Parma violet velvet.
Janet, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. R.
Davis, Westbury, and A. W. Crosby, The
Nile, only son of R. F. Crosby, Hobart,
announce their engagement.


.
mwm
w :
As installed Hillside Flats, Sydney.
WE CORDIALLY INVITE YOU TO VISIT DANKS’ EXHIBIT, ROYAL SHOW
THE “HUSH” PLUSHER
adds a new refinement to sanitation in the Hashing of pedestal pans
SILENT SPACE SAVING EXACT ATTRACTIVE
APPEARANCE ACCESSIBLE MODERN
The “Hush” Flushes is installed, amongst others, in the following buildings:—
Bank of N.S.W.
Catholic Assur. Co.
Carlton Hotel
Hillside Flats
Langham Hotel
Railway Building, Wynyard
Rural Bank
Trocadero
Rosemont Flats
St. Leonards Hotel, N. Sydney
St. Vincent’s Hospital
Trust Building
Wembley Flats
M.B.W.S. and Sewerage
Warwick Chambers
Woolworths, etc.,
and thousands of others throughout
Australian Cities.
VISIT
PHONE: M 6505. Open 8 a.m. Late shopping, Friday, 9 p.m.
OUR EXHIBIT, STRAND BUILDING CENTRE, STRAND ARCADE.
Manufacturers and Patentees,
324-330 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
.
391-403 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Vic”: After suffering the inconveni-
ence for a century, overseas ship masters
have rebelled against Brisbane’s pilot
system. The custom is for pilots to be
rowed alongside incoming ships outside
Moreton Bay, where at times the Pacific
Ocean stands on its head and turns
Catherine wheels. The other day, when it
was playing this little game, seven large
steamers were left to toss outside the
island because of the primitive arrange-
ments, while seven commanders tramped
their bridges and thought up appropriate
comments. Captain Browning, of the P.
and O. liner Maloja, said the position
was disgraceful and that to leave the
ships outside the bay without pilot boat
or service in such weather was to “defi-
nitely jeopardise both the lives of pas-
sengers and the ships.” The Maloja
berthed two days late. Captain Pilcher,
of the Tanda, suggested that, when pilots
could not get out, a vessel should be sent
to guide ships in. The Government de-
partment concerned seems to be the only
silent party to the discussion —Brer
Rabbit was a howling dingo beside it.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The status of the Legisla-
tive Council of New Guinea as a delib-
erative assembly may be judged by the
pace at which it disposes of legislation.
During its recent session it passed 30
bills in two days, including the Shipping
Bill, which was unloaded out of thin air
like a rabbit out of a conjuror’s hat.
This caused the leader of the unofficial
opposition to resign. One measure, how-
ever, marks the session as epoch-mak-
ing. Liquor may now be sold in Rabaul
in pubs and clubs on Sundays during the
hours between noon and 1 p.m. and 5.30
p.m. and 7 p.m. And barmaids are to
be allowed if they are over 25. Beer
tasted very good when Ah Chee’s pas-
sages echoed to the cry of “Ludwig,
two-bottle beer ’ee come —maskee,
makim three feller.” I suppose they have
become genteel enough to order glasses
in these days.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Many Queenslanders credit
the jacaranda-tree with a malign influ-
ence on health when it assumes its
October glory-robe. For years, corre-
spondents to the Brisbane press used to
demand the summary destruction of
every jacaranda. Mangoes, too, were
blamed, not only for dengue (B. 11 /3 / ’36)
but for boils—which idea exists also in
India. These are merely coincidences,
but there are real seasonal effects on
health from plants. Those who react
to the skin poison of gaillardias, stinking
Roger or the fire-tree, for example, get
their worst attacks usually in the spring.
So do certain victims of plant-asthma.
Also, touching on plant effects, never
pitch a tent under a Moreton Bay fig-
tree. It is an attractive summer site, but
in a fortnight or less the tent will be
rotted.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The results of the sale of
Netherby (Darling Downs) Shorthorns
by the blind Digger J. T. Scrymgeour,
augurs badly for the future of the
Queensland beef industry and says
little for the judgment of breeders.
The rising eight years old five times cham-
pion bull of Queensland brought a bid
of only 35 guineas, and was withdrawn.
The highest priced cow went at 20
guineas, paid for Netherby Grand Mis-
tress, full of the blood of the Milton’s
Marthas and of that of the 4000-guinea
Masterkey (imp.). The highest price for
a bull was 55 guineas, and splendid
animals were sold for bullock prices—
down to 5y guineas. It was the cheap-
est stud sale held since the doldrums of
the mid-’nineties.
* * * *
“E.P.”: De Rougemont missed a good
yarn by not living a few years longer in
the North. The last Darwin papers con-
tain a Government announcement of a
sale of unclaimed property which in-
cludes “one cose of Castlemaine ale.” Far
easier to believe in savages riding turtles
than in anybody leaving that sort of
cargo unclaimed North of Twenty-eight.
“So ’e run y' down at last?”
“No fear —’e ’ ad t ’ plurry Well FLY me down.”
“Notaden”: Queensland continues to
provide strange and dramatic meetings
between its human and reptilian inhabi-
tants. When a Southport lady-golfer
picked up her stick-bag on the club-
house verandah, a 6ft. green snake
emerged, paused to swallow a frog and
scaled the verandah lattice. A western
sheepman, motoring his family to a
dance, with the car-hood down for cool-
ness, was startled by shrieks from the
back seat. Before he could turn round,
a 4ft. goanna dashed up his back and
took a flying leap from his bald head
over the windscreen. The car landed in
the road channel without more casualties
than a few scratches from the. 1 intruder’s
claws. Two youngsters in a southern
mining field killed a 2ft. snake and
threw it down a 70ft. shaft. It fell on
a man coming up the ladder, and slipped
down inside his shirt.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Canberra seems
to be about to do something wise for
once in its dealings with Australian
colored folk. Hitherto “half-castes,”
even if three-quarters white blood, have
been treated in N.T. law as abo-
rigines, with all manner of limitations
of employment and freedom. It is
proposed to authorise the Chief Pro-
tector of Aborigines to approve suit-
able mixed bloods for recognition as
whites, within broad limits. It is a wise
and humane measure, and if it works as
well as may be expected might usefully
be carried further on the “Paper Dutch-
man” lines of the Netherlands Indies.
There colored indigenes or mixed bloods
of indigene associations, on agreeing to
live monogamously, pay their taxes regu-
larly, assist the enforcement of law and
order and otherwise accept the Govern-
ment viewpoint, are given all the rights
of a burgher. It is a paper which yields
the Administration gold values.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Every year Mrs. A. E. Moore and Mrs.
J. C. Trotter organise a bridge party to
aid funds of the women’s section
of the social service. The party was held
in the Brisbane Women’s Club this year,
and added a few greatly-needed shekels.
Mrs. A. J. Jones, the Lady Mayoress, and
Mrs. Percy Pease were among the card-
players.
“Anything Goes” brought a crowded
house to His Majesty’s for the opening
night. Among the audience was a large
group of guests at Mrs. R. D. Eve’s fare-
well party to Billy Maloney, who has
been manager of the Regent Theatre for
ages, and goes south to do the publicity
for Charlie Chaplin’s latest film. After the
show the guests proceeded to the Belle
Vue for supper. The place-cards bore
delightful caricatures of Billy holding a
coy Charlie Chaplin by the hand.
In spite of postponement there was a
large crowd at the party on the Dun-
troon in aid of the Social Service League
and Queensland Ambulance Transport
Brigade. Flags enclosed the decks, and
the cardrooms were massed with flowers.
Mrs. Percy Pease received the guests at
the head of the gangway, and Captain
Lloyd presented the prizes. Among the
visitors were the Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
A. J. Jones) and the Premier’s wife (Mrs.
Forgan Smith).
There were 20 guests at the party
which Mrs. H. E. Dix gave for her
mother, Mrs. P, Soutter. Eighty-nine
candles adorned the birthday cake, and
the guest of honor was as thrilled at the
telegrams and gifts which poured in all
day as she might have been 80 years ago.
Mrs, James Allan is off to Melbourne
to stay with her son, Professor Marshall
Allan, and his wife. The latter was Polly
Bracker, member of a pastoralist family
known for generations on the Downs.
June 29 is to see the wedding of Betty
de Burgh Persse, one of the twin daugh-
ters of Mr. and Mrs. de Burgh Persse,
of Wyambyn, Beaudesert. The bride-
groom is Lieut.-Colonel W. T. Howe, of
the Royal Signallers, Quetta, and a son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Howe,
of England. Twin-sister Mary is to be
the only bridesmaid, and after the knot
is tied and the healths drunk at Wyam-
byn the newly-weds will leave for Fiji
for a honeymoon trip before heading for
India.
Mrs. C. D. Mears, who arrived in Bris-
bane by the Tanda, which had a rough
time in the cyclone, had plenty to worry
about beside the elements. Her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. A. Trudinger, two Aus-
tralian missionaries, who are at Hung-
tung, were menaced by bandits, and
plans were being made to rescue them.
The H. S. Vesteys, of London, who
are related to the Vesteys of meat fame,
had a busy day in Brisbane before con-
tinuing their journey homewards. Mrs.
W. A. Craig gave a tea party at Rowe’s
for the lady, and with her husband pre-
sided over a dinner party, which was
followed by a theatre party to “Anything
Goes” and then by a supper and dance.
The Australian Sugar Producers’ Asso-
ciation has been meeting in Brisbane,
and a host of northern producers at-
tended with their wives. Senator and
Mrs. Crawford received at an at-home,
and it quite cheered Brisbane, well used
to snubs regarding its climate, to hear
the northerners congratulating them-
selves on the “lovely sunshine.”
Mrs. F. Worley, who has been en-
gaged for 24 years in mission work in
China, passed through this week en
route to her home in Maoriland. She
is at Wenchow, and since the death of
her husband has carried on the work
alone. It is only a holiday trip home—
a few months will see her in harness
again.
The yearling sales last week proved
to be quite a social occasion. All the
riding clubs were well represented, and
lots of station people, among them the
Bell girls, of Coochin, attended.


• for every
socket in every
receiver
ullard
The Master
Valve
M
I
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
A NNOVNCING—
THE PALEC COMPLEAT MIILTITESTER
A truly universal radio tester and fault tracer and one which tsie Engineer
and Experimenter can rely on.
Incorporates 22 ranges, and measures A.C.-D.C. Volts, Current, Resistance,
Capacity, Inductance, Impedance; Tests Electrolytic Condensers (direct
reading on Dial), also Insulation, etc.
AVAILABLE FROM ALL LEADING WHOLESALERS.
IVrite for full details and catalogue to
PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.,
ASHFIELD, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the “Palec” range of Test Equipment, Cathode Ray Oscillograph and
Meters, etc.
-
Price £l3/10/- (plus tax)
RADIO NEWS
TWO SERVICE HINTS.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
In difficulty of diagnosis probably the
worst fault that can develop in a receiver
is a “dead” autodyne or mixer circuit.
The tube itself in most cases checks up
0.K., and it may be some time before
the real cause is found.
In one recent instance trouble was
found to be due to a faulty coil.
In a 57 autodyne kit the oscillator coil
was suspected (after much fruitless work
on other components) and tested. It
showed all correct as far as freedom
from shorts was concerned, and was not
“open” anywhere. However, all did not
seem in order, so the coil was stripped
and the cause of the trouble located.
Between the cathode coil (nearest the
former) and the plate coil was a thin
piece of celluloid used for insulation.
This had been cemented with a liberal—
too liberal—dose of.amyl acetate, which
had remained moist for some time and
seeped through into the turns of the
cathode coil. Here it had attacked the
covering and considerably reduced its
effectiveness as an insulation, with the
result that a tew weeks
after the set was
assembled it ceased to
operate.
A rewound coil,
with a slip of stiff
paper used in place
of the celluloid and
shellac in place of the
amyl acetate, made
the set “perk” again.
The replacement of
dynamic speaker
cones is not the easiest
of jobs, and the fol-
lowing practical hints
on the subject should
be of use. The
type of speaker in
which the spider is at
the back of the cone
is the one most likely
to be encountered and
the most difficult. With
it the felt ring should
be carefully taken off
and cleaned, as should
also the cardboard or
composition ring (if
any) between the cone
edge and the cradle.
A pair of long-nosed
pliers will be found
useful in loosening
the nuts holding down
the legs of the spider.
When these are taken
off and the voice-
coil leads undone, the old cone will
come away easily. The' inner side
of the cradle should be cleaned with
a soft, dry brush and the gap
inspected for “centre.” If all is
in order, the cardboard or composition
ring may be fitted, having been given a
good coating of liquid glue on the
under side. Press this ring firmly into
place all round the edge of the cradle
and see that it sits snugly in position.
When the ring has set, place the cone
in position, easing the coil down into the
gap and fitting the spider on to the
bolts. Place the nuts on, but do not
turn them tight. Take three pieces of
stiff paper about fin. wide by l|in. and
place these at even intervals in the gap
from the front. These act as centring
slips, and should be left in position
throughout the rest of the job. Next,
tighten up the nuts on the spider. The
next job is that of sealing down the edge
of the cone. In this job the half-inch or
so of nozzle on the tube of liquid glue
comes in very handy. Gently raise the
cone edge and apply the glue to the
upper side of the cardboard ring, smear-
ing it well over the surface with the
aid of the nozzle. Go right round the
speaker and then gently press the cone
edge flat, using the blade of a broad
screwdriver. Be careful to press the
cone down and not sideways or it will
warp.
When the cone has dried, the felt ring
may be replaced, after a generous appli-
cation of the glue, which, in view of
the high absorption of felt, is absolutely
THESHORTH AND OF WIRELESS.
At the special request of many beginners,
we reproduce below a complete series of
theoretical signs used in wireless circuits.
The diagrams to the left and right show
two actual interpretations.
necessary. The centring slips are then
removed and the speaker tested. If the
above instructions have been faithfully
carried out the job will be right “first go,”
and there will be no necessity for further
work.
R.H.A.
Short-wave Construction Tips.
When winding short-wave coils on
ribbed formers it is a good idea to cut
away some of the superfluous material
between the ribs, leaving only a ring at
each end for support. If the former is
very long, intermediate rings may be
left so as not to weaken the former un-
duly. When cutting out the former a
hole should first be drilled at each corner
to admit the saw, which may be a hack-
saw or a keyhole saw with a special fine-
toothed blade. A similar idea may be
used with a tubular former when it is
desired to take tappings with a croco-
dile clip, but in this case a slot is cut
in the former under the section to be
tapped. The clip will then fit right down
over the wire and make a good contact.
A cabinet for a short-wave receiver
may,. with advantage, be made from
aluminium-backed plywood. The alu-
minium, when earthed, forms a com-
plete screening box. If a cabinet of
thicker wood is constructed, aluminium
foil may be glued all over the inside.
Foil glued to the back of a lid should
have a pigtail connection to the case to
ensure a positive, crackle-free contact at
all times.
ENNO.
All Round the Dial.
“Cocne”: Though the B.B.C. still bans
broadcast advertising and maintains its
British monopoly, the “sponsored pro-
gramme” business is beginning to
flourish in Fogland. The money, however,
goes out of the country. The big Luxem-
bourg station, the Normandy and the
Post-Parisien have been making fortunes
out of British and American advertising
for over a year. They get their footing
through the fact that the B.B.C. pro-
grammes are becoming duller and duller —
monopolies are seldom bright—while *he
Continental stations sugar their advertis-
ing pills with more acceptable entertain-
ment. The B.B.C. is going to do some-
thing about it, it is rumored, but is not
expected to disclose its intentions for a
year or fifteen months.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
After an absence of some weeks the
writer finds conditions very much altered
on the short-wave bands.
Recent early evenings have shown
much reduced strength, with the excep-
tion of Japan on 27m. RNE has been
hard to copy in the 9 p.m. Sunday ses-
sion. On 40m. the noise level has de-
creased, but with the exception of GSL
signal strength on the others has been
still very poor here.
The No. 1 transmission from the
8.8. C. has been good, but VK3ME
(which has been fading out rapidly after
sundown) has interfered badly with
GSB.
Radio Coloniale, on 25.6 m., has been
good from 2.30 p.m., peaking after 3
p.m. and fair at 7 p.m. on the other
frequency, 25.28 m. The No. 2 transmis-
sion, which now includes 16m. and 14m.,
has not been so good. Sixteen metres
has been erratic, and so far no sign of
the 14m. station has been found.
In the mornings the star performer
until about 8 a.m. has been 2RO, but,
unfortunately, interference from FZR
telegraphy station has been very bad
and has ruined what would otherwise
have been first-class
reception of good
music.
GSC has been very
good—b ell e r than
GSB, but not equal to
2RO.
There has also been
a great improvement
in the Americans on
the 31m. band, with
W2XAF easily best,
especially after 8 a.m.
WBXK, in the 19m.
early-morning trans-
mission, has faded,
being almost too weak
to copy, and W2XAD,
in the 16m. band, has
been inaudible.
Radio Coloniale has
been quite the best of
th e early - morning
25m. stations, but the
English session at 5.45
a.m. has been rather
early for most. The
German DIQ has
been still good, but
seems to have no
regular days, and
when the announcer
does speak English he
is much harder to
follow than those
from the regular stations.
The Belgian ORK has been excellent
up to closing at 7 a.m., but is very close
to a strong telegraphy station, which
interferes at times. The Russian heard
testing on 20m. has been logged only
on speech lately, but at great strength in
the early evening, fading rapidly after
8 p.m.
The Dutch station at the bottom of
the 31m. band has been the best for
early-evening reception, coming through
with music to suit all tastes.
“P.R.W.” refers to the difference be-
tween his notes and mine. It is remark-
able how much even a few miles can
affect the reception of stations, both
broadcast and short-wave. Where the


To be described in an early issue.
THE IDEAL AMATEUR
SUPERHET.
This new superhet is a big advance
over conventional methods. It uses
four valves only, for battery or A.C.
operation. First and second
detectors are regenerative, and iron
core intermediate frequency trans-
formers are employed. Beat oscil-
lation control for C.W. incorporated
in second detector. Works perfectly
at 10 metres, and for headphone use
requires only a small B eliminator
for plate supply. The answer to
the selectivity problem in a con-
gested area. Powerful and super-
sensitive. Designed by an amateur
for amateurs.
Watch for it in “T!he Bulletin.”
'THOUSANDS OF REAL
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
R«dio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
i>#l
Carter
GENEMOTOR
A NEW
"B" ELIMINATOR
m
MODEL
1560 A
Input. Output. Inter-Tap.
6v. 2.2 amp. 180 v. 30ma. 90 volts.
Price, £5/10/-
The smallest anti most efficient
Eliminator made.
NOTE. —If Geuemotof is required
for use with receiver employing
directly-heated .valves, specify filter
Model XI Price, 30/-
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
Write for Comprehensive Bulletin
No. 42.
AMPLION (A/sia) LTD.
Tclcohonc: . Telegrams
86694 70 Clarence Street. 'Amplioo.-
(3 lines). Sydney. Sydne
writer was located in 1928 2BL was
almost impossible, yet the same set taken
to a friend’s home three miles away
brought in the station very Well. Neither
location was shielded in any way, and
being over 200 miles from Sydney the
ground wave could not have been
responsible.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
During last week the widely-organised
W/VE DX contest was in full swing,
and in all countries amateurs could
hardly find a place on any band. Serial
numbers changed from 80 to 10 metres
frequently, and on the afternoon of
March 22 the 20-metre band was bedlam.
Several VKs piled up points on 10
metres, and by the sound of things
VK2LZ should be up with the DX brass-
hats when the gong goes. In view of
the calamitous floods in the U.S.A., it
was somewhat ironical of a VK2 to
regale Americans on 20 with “Isn’t It a
Lovely Day to be Caught in the Rain?”
Speaking of 20-metre ’phone, the contrast
in the short, snappy American “overs”
and the long-windedness of many Aus-
tralians is very marked. Seldom are
Westralians heard on 20-metre ’phone,
but VK6MW, of Nedlands, is roaring
into Eastern Australia in fine style. On
the evening of March 22 VK2CI was
heard extolling the virtues of the W.A.
climate and such advantages as nine
o’clock closing.
Inter-State signals are good at night
on 10 metres, and in the mornings be-
tween 0900 and 1200 E.S.T. Americans
(C.W. and ’phone) vary from R 4 to R 7.
Japanese and a few Canadians are also
audible. In Westralia the stumbling
block for a W.A.C. has always been
South America, but 10 metres turned the
trick. VK6SA recently made his W.A.C.
thus. One wonders how long it will be
before W.A.C. is made somewhere on
five metres.
It is reported from the U.S.A. that
two West Coast stations are ready with
a few kilowatts for C.W. DX on five
metres. The opinion is often expressed
that DX achievement on ultra-short
waves can be of little value because of
the erratic nature of such work. Radio
communication is far too young for
conclusive statements of this kind. Some
unknown cosmic influence might easily
reverse the whole scheme of wave propa-
gation and reflection.
The intrusion of commercial stations
into amateur bands is a sore point.
Twenty metres has suffered lately from
one that occupies a good 80kc. and is not
yet identified, owing to an incessant kind
of “Chinese laundry” Morse code and
no noticeable callsign. Another little
trouble for the Cairo round-table to cope
with.
VK2NO.
Workshop Tips.
“Querex”: When constructing a re-
ceiver from bright aluminium chassis and
panels, unless some form of finish is
applied to the metal surface, scratches
The loW-power station of VK3PG, referred to in B. 26/2/’36.
A minimum of apparatus is used, yet this station has a DX
bag comparable with that of many high-powered stations.
and other marks will mar the final
appearance. There are several methods
of treating aluminium, including the
caustic-soda bath for matt finish, rub-
bing with steel wool or fine emery paper,
the rotary scratch-wheel,-or the rotation
of a cork in a drill spindle. An unusual
form of finish is used by the writer to
give a pleasing “ScotclLplaid” appear-
ance. It consists of rubbing the surface
primarily in one direction with steel
wool, and then, by using a straight-edge,
ruling crossed parallel lines with the edge
of a typewriter eraser. Such erasers are
good abrasives for metal surfaces. Space
the ruled lines about either at right-
angles to the edge of the work or diago-
nally. The idea may be applied to any
polished sheet-metal surface, is an
alternative to the rotating cork “engine
finish.”
Exceptional DX ’Phone.
Many Australians now sit behind their
microphones and yarn away with stations
in remote parts of the world. Really
satisfactory contact with England by tele-
phony is, however, not quite so easy ;
good conditions for it are rare. Re-
markable transmission and reception
conditions, however, prevailed early on
the morning of 2/ 3 / ’36, directly follow-
ing the broadcast speech from London
by H.M. the King. VK2BQ and
VK2NO both evidently decided simul-
taneously to see what was doing on
“20.” GSNI and G6XQ, both of Birm-
ingham, were audible on telephony at
R7/8, and contact was quickly estab-
lished between these stations and VKs
2BQ and 2NO. The Englishmen were
anxious to know how the King’s speech
was heard in Australia, and conversation
was conducted without a hitch for over
an hour. Signal strength remained fairly
constant. The very favorable condi-
tions of 10 years ago are thus being
repeated, and with the advantage of
modern apparatus the amateur of to-
day can feel that the world is in the
room with him.
Iron Cores but No Coils.
About two years ago the writer
started a campaign for the introduction
of modern iron cores for R.F. coils.
To-day, there are commercial broadcast
receivers made and marketed in Aus-
tralia using such cores, but mainly in
connection with intermediate frequency
transformers in superheterodyne receivers.
The results are just what were to be ex-
pected ; improved performance all
round. A few kits
have also put in an
appea ranee for
home constructors,
but these also are
limited to iron
cores in the I.F.Ts.
alone. What of the
R.F. coil for use at
signal frequency?
There is room for
redevelopment of
the apparently de-
spised tuned R.F.
receiver in this
country, and by
applying these cores
to the coils a great
step forward can
be made. Recently
an all-wave tuned
R.F. receiver has
put in an appearance in U.S.A. The
design is ingenious, but even so does not
use iron cores.
Coil-kit manufacturers are missing a
chance with the home constructor in
this respect. It is only a matter of mak-
ing up small honeycombs on the cores in
the laboratory, calibrating them for
coverage on a standard condenser gang,
and putting them into production. The
cores are here in Australia in various
makes. Why the unnecessary delay in
the appearance of simple iron core R.F.
coils?
D. B. K.
Latest in the Trade.
Philips Technical Communication, No.
48, just to hand, contains information
of interest to public-address engineers
and amateur transmitters. The long-
established type E 406 power triode is
popular with the Australian amateur as
a particularly robust
product capable of
standing up to hard
work under over-
load conditions gen-
erally imposed in
experimental trans-
mission. The valve
has been redesigned,
and now appears as
the E4O6N. It may
be operated as a
single Class-A power
amplifier stage or in
push-pull. For a
single valve a self-
biasing resistor of
450 ohms is recom-
mended, and for
push-pull provision
for individual bias values is sug-
gested. This is because the high
mutual conductance renders it sensi-
tive to grid bias variation. The
amplification factor is exceedingly high,
and large outputs are developed with
comparatively small grid excitation volt-
ages. The old E 406 had the standard
American four-pin base, and the E4O6N
is fitted with the new Philips “P” base.
Information is also given concerning
Philips barretters (iron-hydrogen regulat-
ing lamps); R.F. amplifying valves and
short-wave performance; the auto-
heterodyne circuit and the Philips type
F443N power pentode. The last-named,
which supplants the old F 443, popular in
the days of direct-coupled audio ampli-
fiers, is the largest output valve in the
normal range of receiving valves. The
original F 443 was limited in its applica-
tion for the reason that 550 volts was
needed for the plate for maximum out-
put and such a voltage was beyond the
normal working limits of electrolytic
condensers. The F 443 therefore became
relatively expensive to use, and found
favor only in large public-address and
sound-picture systems. The F443N can
be used with only 300 volts on plate
and screen without appreciable loss in
power output, so that standard electro-
lytic condensers can be employed. The
valve is fitted with the American five-pin
base.
!j! * * *
The catalogue and price list of Elec-
tronic Communications, Ltd., P.O. Box
300, Newcastle (N.S.W.), are to hand.
This co. is headed by Allan Fairhall
(VK2KB) in the interests of amateur
transmitters in Australia. Important
features are the price and details of the
increasingly popular Eimac 50T trans-
mitting valve. This valve has, since its
inception last year in the U.S.A.,
taken amateur ranks by storm. It is
about the most efficient valve of
its type extant, with tantalum ele-
ments, ratings up to 3000 volts and a
conservative 75 watts plate-dissipation.
At the Australian price of £6 Bs., plus
postage (no sales tax), it is within the
reach of most experimenters. Other
items of interest to amateurs in this
catalogue. are bench type relay racks,
General Radio type skirted knobs,
National 6in. and 4in. dials, isolantite
sockets and stand-off insulators, and vari-
able isolantite-insulated condensers of all
capacities for receiving and transmitting
apparatus.
* * * *
Radiotronics’ “Technical Bulletin No.
60,” obtainable from A.W.A. Valve Co.,
47 York-street, Sydney, contains full in-
formation on new valves in the increas-
ingly popular metal series. These are
the 5Z4 rectifier (data additional to
previous information), the 6AB pentagrid
converter (conditions for operation),- the
6L7 pentagrid mixer-amplifier in a
volume expander circuit, the 6R7 duo-
diode-triode, and the 6X5 full-wave
vacuum rectifier. Other information of
use to radio engineers and servicemen
includes “Hints on the A.V.C. Circuit,”
“Multi-purpose Valves,” “R.F. Circuit,”
“Rectifier Valve Shields,” “Radiotron
6E5” and “Radiotron 84.”
Licenses.
P.M.G. radio license figures for Feb-
ruary, 1936, show a total of 786,492
for the Commonwealth. Experimental
licenses have increased to 1426.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Some time ago you published the circuit of
a short-wave converter for use with a broad-
cast receiver. I have mislaid the diagram.
Can this be republished ? —396.
Diagram herewith. This converter was de-
signed just before everybody began to realise
they were really useful things to hitch to a
receiver, and since then there have been im-
provements in valves. Thus the 57 detector
could be a 6C6 and the 58 a 6D6. The oscil-
lator valve would be a 76. Detector and oscil-
lator could be combined by using a 6A7 penta-
grid, or if four-volt valves are used the mixer
could be a Philips AK2 octode and a type-
AF3 intermediate stage. In the diagram the
values are: Cl and C 2 (ganged), .00014/5;
C 3, 11-plate midget (manual trimmer); Rl,
30,000 ohms; C 6, .Olmfd.; R 2, 25,000 ohms;
Cl, .linfd.; R 3, 50,000 ohms; C 5, .OOOlmfd.;
R 4, 250 ohms; C 9, .Olmfd.; R 6, 25,000 ohms;
R 5, 3000 ohms; R 7, 50 ohms, centre-tapped.
RFC is a three-section honeycomb choke.
Plug-in coils for this converter were marketed
specially by R.C.S. Radio, 21 Ivy-street, Dar-
lington, N.S.W.
* * * *
(1) How can I improve an old eight-valve
(Keogh) set to make it more modern and
selective ? (2) It was going right with no
voltage showing on three 45-volt Ever-Ready
batteries. When new batteries were fitted, all
that could be heard was noise. Why ? —397.
(1) About the only things that can be done
are to fit modern valves and possibly an ex-
ternal tuned R.F. booster stage. The use of
modern high-gain valves would probably in-
volve difficulties, and such a set is likely to be
very unstable. (2) Rather a remarkable set
that runs on no plate voltage at all. The bat-
teries must have had just enough “juice” to
permit detection. Evidently an audio trans-
former is broken (or breaking) down, and the
full B-battery voltage accentuates this in the
form of noise. On the other hand, it may be
a gridleak or fixed condenser.
* * * *
In B. 26 /2 / ’36 a correspondent inquired
about entry to the Signal Corps of the militia
and was informed, among other things, “Ten
words per minute is desirable, but operators
are trained under routine. Volunteers are wel-
come, whether qualified operators or not.” I
am 19 years old, 6ft., can drive a car, and
have made several radio receivers, including
short-wave types, but have not yet learned
Morse. What is the pay, and am I accept-
able ? —399.
Pay starts at 4s. per day for signalman,
based on a six-hour day, rising in various
stages of promotion to 15s. per day for lieut.
The militia must not be confused with the
regular services, being purely voluntary and
part-time. You would certainly be acceptable,
and should make inquiries at the nearest mili-
tary depot to your Tasmanian location.
* * * *
(1) / have had the pleasure of listening to
VK2NO on the amateur 20-metre band during
a contact with W6KSO. Reference was made
to a new superhet receiver designed by a Mr.
Jones, and that one similar had just been
finished and was then in use at VK2NO. Is
the receiver to be described in The Bulletin ?
(2) What is the subscription to “Radio,” and
where do I subscribe ?— -400.
(1) Yes, as the Ideal Amateur Superhet.
(2) 20s. p.a. You can pay through this office.


*SILVER
EDGE n
USEFUL DATA ON PONTIAC.
Accelerated from 0 to SO m.p.h. in 14 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 1-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in S
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft. Sin.
Maximum speed, 76.27 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 20.5 m.p.g.
fyuAad&b
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O . Box 71, Melbourne, Vic »
"Only UieKlSMlTiaccurate
In a recent independent test of tyre gauges—one out of
53 was found to be completely accurate. That one was
the KISMET. And little wonder, for behind the production
of every KISMET gauge is an experience as old as the
motor-car industry. The utmost care in manufacture, and
frequent testing, produce a tyre gauge which is really
worthy of the name.
A Qauge is useless unless accurate it is misleading
KIMETS
tm
Faultlessly finished in plated metals; with wide,
flat reading surfaces calibrated in 11b. units indi-
vidually numbered.
Complete in neat, leather wallet 8/6
Sole Manufacturers: WILiMAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Rcx>resentative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street. Melbourne. C.l.
ll*
The Steering Column.
MANY IMPROVEMENTS IN PONTIAC.
ROOMY, COMFORTABLE AND ROADWORTHY.
BY FRED BERRY.
OINCE reappearing on the Australian market after an absence
of some years, the Pontiac has steadily regained prestige,
and has rapidly won favor with a critical motoring public. This
year’s new series shows clearly that lessons learned during last
year’s operations have been put to good account, as a definite
improvement is noted in road performance and ease of control,
while the car, as a whole, has a more refined and pleasing
appearance. Coachwork is better, more room is provided in
closed types, interior decoration is tastefully executed and a
number of gadgets are fitted to enhance personal comfort.
A new type of pressed-steel wheel is
used, providing greater strength than
hitherto, and at the same time saving
time and labor in cleaning.
The six-cylinder L-head type motor is
rated at 27,4 h.p. R.A.C., having a bore
of 3|in., stroke of 3|in. and
piston displacement of 208 cubic
inches. Actual developed horse-
power is, however, 81 at 3600
r.p.m., using a special “Eco-
metric” cylinder-head and com-
bustion-chamber design, and a
compression ratio of 6.2 to 1,
which is claimed to eliminate
knocking even when using stan-
dard fuels.
Power plant is carried on five
steel-reinforced rubber mount-
ings, two opposite front-end
plate, two opposite flywheel
housing and one under gearbox.
Disposition of these mountings
dampens vibration and torque
reaction throughout the speed
range, at the same time afford-
ing remarkable engine stability.
The cylinder block is of
chrome-nickel cast-iron alloy,
and is cast integral with the
upper half of the crankcase.
The crankcase extends 2|in.
below the centre line of the
crankshaft and is ribbed inter-
nally, giving exceptional vertical
strength and rigidity. Lateral
rigidity is also provided for by well-
proportioned horizontal and vertical webs
outside the crankcase opposite the crank-
shaft.
Water jackets are cast in the block, the
full length of piston travel, whilst both
inlet and exhaust-valve seatings are
Left side of Pontiac motor and gearbox, showing harmonic
balancer integral with crankshaft pulley, fully automatic
ignition assembly and accessibility of all major units.
almost surrounded by generous water
passages.
Pistons are chrome-nickel iron, tin-
plated, machined and matched to uni-
form weight and dimensions, three com-
A happy impression of the new Pontiac Six. Note the efficient streamlining of
front end and body profile.
pression rings being fitted above and
one oil seal ring below the gudgeon pin.
The piston pin is press-fitted in the
boss, and is retained by a locking screw
at one end. The other end is slotted,
allowing unrestricted breathing action
and so preventing oil pumping with
close clearances.
Connecting rods
are drop-forged I-
section, rifle-drilled
for pressure lubri-
cation to little-end
bearing. This bear-
ing is bronze-
bushed, whilst big-
end bearings are of
the steel - backed,
cadmium - silver
alloy, interchange-
able type.
A five-bearing
crankshaft with in-
tegral counter-
weights, and bal-
anced statically
and dynamically, is
used, and a har-
monic balancer to
eliminate torsional
vibration is built integral with the fan-
drive pulley.
The camshaft runs on four case-
hardened journals with Babbitt-lined
bearings, the faces of cams being ground
offset to ensure continuous spinning of
valve lifters and consequent even wear
of tappet faces. Timing gears are driven
by a short, silent, side-guided chain with
no adjustment, and are lubricated by
pressure from the front camshaft bear-
ing through a slot in the thrust washer.
Side-by-side valves are offset five
degrees from vertical to provide a more
efficient combustion-chamber design.
Valve guides are of tapered, removable
type, and valve springs are fitted with
“dampers” to prevent bounce at high
engine revs., and also to eliminate noise
and avoid breakage.
Valve-timing: Inlet opens five degrees
before T.D.G., closes 39 degrees after
B.D.C. Exhaust opens 45 degrees before
B.D.C. and closes five degrees after
T.D.C. Carburettor is of Carter triple-
venturi down-draught type, with large
air cleaner and intake silencer.
Automatic choke control is built into
the assembly, together with thermostatic
regulation of fast idle when starting from
cold.
From a welded tank suspended between
the rear dumb-irons fuel is drawn by
means of a mechani-
cal pump, with built-
in filter and settling
bowl, driven by skew-
gears from the cam-
shaft. Fuel pipes run
along the outside of
frame - members to
reduce temperature of
line and prevent a
vapor lock, and flex-
ible aero-type tubing
is used to connect the
line to the fuel pump.
The intake mani-
fold is fitted with
automatic heat con-
trol, the thermostat having three manu-
ally-operated “heat” positions. The ex-
haust manifold, of cast-iron, is of the
six-port type, with a hot-spot immedi-
ately above the carburettor intake.
The cooling system is actuated by a
centrifugal-type pump with thermostat in
header pipe. The pump delivers water
from the coolest section of the radiator
The Pontiac air cleaner and intake
silencer. Air before entering carburettor
passes in turn through oil bath and
fine gauze screen.
core into a distributing tube located be-
tween the valve ports and the cylinder
barrels, with graduated openings so
spaced as to discharge cool water directly
against each exhaust-valve seating. From
these points the water is circu-
lated around the intake ports,
cylinders and combustion cham-
ber.
Lubrication is pressure-feed,
with regulated flow to main,
con.-rod, camshaft and gudgeon-
pin bearings; splash to cylinder
walls, pistons and distributor
drive gears. Large section filters
are interposed in the pipe line,
and oil pressure has been in-
creased from 301 b. to 451 b. per
square inch.
A crankcase ventilating sys-
tem is incorporated, fumes and
water vapor from the crank-
case being discharged under the
chassis.
Electrical equipment is Delco-
Remy separate-unit type, wiring
being single, ground return, fuse
protected. Generator is six-
volt, air-cooled, with voltage
control, and is driven by a flex-
ible belt from a crankshaft
pulley. The cut-out relay is
mounted on front of the dash.
A four-pole positive-engage-
ment starter motor is fitted,
operated by solenoid, which is ener-
gised by a vacuum-controlled switch
connected to the accelerator pedal. The
battery, six-volt, 13-plate, of 105 amp.-
hour capacity, is, mounted in a cradle
under the front floorboards. Ignition is
by coil-and-battery, of distributor jump-
spark type, with both vacuum and centri-
fugal automatic advance and retard of
firing point. An octane selector mounted
on the distributor shaft provides a further
fine adjustment of spark point when
using various types of fuel. Breaker gap
is 18 thou.; spark-plug gap, 20-22 thou.


ADD TO
YOUR CARS SPEED
..by replacing worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
ay PLUGS_
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
ii?
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
. YEARS .
pion
POWR
Arvd
STILL
M
m
»
LUCAS
BATTERIES
It’s Not what you PAY
it’s what you RECEIVE . . .
- ~
&&
li
■V :■
HR
11
'
m
mk
ii
m
■
9
nH
•iv'x'y—
■
; .
OXJI
COOLER
ENGINE
A COOLER engine means better, more
economical running, and this lowers operat-
ing costs and cuts down repair bills.
Valvoline, the finest motor oil money can buy.
will give you a cooler engine.
Valvoline is sold only in "tamper-proof" tins,
sealed as a protection against substitution, jdirt.
adulteration and short measure.
Ask your garagepian!
Advt. of J. CARRIGAN. Sydney, Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth
tH'36
Firing order, 1-5-3-6-2-4. Plugs, 14mm.
Pyrox.
Transmission is through a lOin. single-
plate dry-disc clutch with graphite re-
lease bearing to synchromesh three-
speed-and-reverse gearbox, all gears, in-
cluding reverse, being quiet helical-cut
type.
Speedometer drive is built into the rear
of the transmission. The clutch pedal is
mounted on a floating housing to prevent
chatter of motor at low speeds being
transmitted to driver.
Final drive to rear axle is through an
enclosed torque tube, front end of pro-
peller shaft being mounted on two self-
oiling bronze bushes, the rear end run-
ning on two ball bearings.
The enclosed metal universal joint has
an oil capacity of one pint, sufficient for
six months’ operation without further
replenishment. Rear axles are semi-
floating, in pressed-steel banjo-type hous-
ing, with spiral bevel ring gear in diff.
assembly. Final reduction ratio is 4.44
to 1.
The chassis is unusually rigid, with
double drop side members and “K.Y.”
subframe further reinforced with two
angle bar cross-members at rear and a
pressed-steel plate riveted across tunnel
section. Rear springs are underslung
semi-elliptic, with rubber bushings in
front eyes and threaded self-adjustable
shackles at rear. A ride stabiliser is also
fitted between the side members, coupled
to both shock-absorber arms and spring
pads.
Dubonnet-type independent front-
wheel suspension is fitted, and double-
acting hydraulic shock-absorbers are
built into the housing above each wheel.
Single-acting hydraulic shock-ab-
sorbers are fitted in rear axle. Service
brakes are Duo-servo hydraulic on all
four wheels, a handbrake lever operating
Cutaway section of motors showing
method of securing crankcase ventilation.
a mechanical emergency assembly,
through rods and cables, on rear wheels.
Wheelbase is 112 in. ; ground clearance,
7|in.
Steering is of conventional type, the
steering-gear being worm and roller, with
a reduction ratio of 17.5 to 1. Turning
circle, right lock, 38ft. ; left, 38ft. Sin.
The Holden body is neatly built and
well-appointed, the windscreen being of
“Armorplate” non-shatterable glass, with
doubled-bladed electric wiper.
No-draught ventilation is installed in
front and rear side windows, with
manually-operated air-scoop in top of
scuttle dash. Hardware and exterior
fittings are chrome-plated, while in
closed models a radio aerial is fitted in
the roof, with provision for installation
in dash.
The instrument panel includes a large
speedometer with headlight beam indi-
cator, oil and fuel gauge, water tempera-
ture indicator and generator charging
warning light.
Front seats are adjustable for length
and the luggage compartment is built
into the rear panels on all sedans.
The car taken over the Bulletin test
course was a four-door six-cylinder
sedan, speedometer reading 1942 miles,
Section of Dubonnet-type independent
front-wheel suspension unit.
and gross weight, including driver,
observer and full fuel tank, 35cwt.
Driven by Darcy Jones, of W. J. Stack
and Co., N.S.W. distributors, the car
handled well in negotiating congested
city traffic, the motor being extremely
smooth in operation and responding in-
stantly to throttle pressure when in top
gear. On the open road a cruising
speed of 50 m.p.h. was comfortably main-
tained, whilst roadholding and suspen-
sion, tested over several miles of rough,
unmade roads, proved well up to stan-
dard requirements.
Climbing Kurrajong Mountain at
speed, the car held the road well, with
a noticeable absence of swaying on
corners, whilst at maximum speed the
engine was so smooth and silent as to
permit conversation between passenger
and driver in a normal manner.
Results of performance tests over the
total distance of 126.2 miles were:
Average speed, inclusive of all tests,
37.3 m.p.h.
Fuel consumed, 6gal. \\ pints, averag-
ing 20.5 m.p.g. (35.8 ton-miles).
Coasted 731 yards from road speed of
15 m.p.h. in neutral; maximum speed on
measured mile with flying start,
47 l-ssec., equal to 76.27 m.p.h.
Hill climb, 2 1-5 miles, Kurrajong
Mountain, from standing start, 3min.
34sec.
Slow running, 350 yards in top gear,
3min. lOsec.; average, 3.8 m.p.h.
Accelerated, 350 yards in top gear,
finishing at 55 m.p.h., 17 l-ssec. ;
average, 41.8 m.p.h.
Accelerated from 10 fo 30 m.p.h. in
top in 8 l-ssec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
second in ssec.
From standing start to 50 m.p.h.
through gears, Msec.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft. 6in.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
P.L. (Sale, Vic.). —My 1926 six-cylinder car
(50,UU0 miles) has had the crankshaft bearings
icnewed twice during the last 10,000 miles.
Crankshaft is reasonably true; oil-pressure
gauge reads normal when engine is hot.
Would this result from ignition being too far
advanced .
t if n P ro * sa^ ble, although high bearing loads on
l .U.C. would tend to pound the metal lining,
Lause ot trouble is probably lack of lubrica-
though § au S? reads normally. Crank-
shaft in your engine is hollow, and after long
usage the cavity becomes filled with a glutinous
substance, preventing free flow of oil to bear-
ingS-
nn u iwi *xr * *
7 TLf' . IWyong, N.S.W.). —Rear wheels of
my i 4 six-cylinder sedan turn in the reverse
irection if handbrake is applied, but either
lemam locked or roll ahead when footbrake
is used. Anything out of adjustment ?
Lootbrake applies shoes in drums on rear
eels, but as handbrake is located on trans-
wr’ 1< f n -i rf r. g s ar J?2 x fie r ce application will
anc v differential action will then
„ > ■ . one ' not both) of rear wheels—
farert happens to be on the greasiest sur-
firm ° * urn roonaentanly in the reverse, direc-
u T s , Lllcf n bt apply the transmission
k pimnct B ?, r ° U , ■ r Serious back-end trouble
J sure to follow.
WLI rwiii™ , . *
have l nf hbwston, N.S.W.). —What chance
,■> J Purchasing a used car for the sum
l . ‘ , on } care what exterior appearance
Nnn mechamcal, y ( be machine must be sound.
*
B.W. (Tumnt mc w i u/i *•
from cold S k, e/i starting up
in thp pnd„„ ere t 18 a t c^lstlnc l metallic knock
miles) TUI* w four-cylinder car (16,000
™n\JiJ' Sama r S after , about a 15 -min.
never the accelerator is pressed
after running downhill there is a pronounced
rattle in the engine which lasts about \osec.
Cause and cure ?
Cold knock, disappearing when engine is
warm, is almost certainly due to piston slap.
Pistons expand when hot and so make a closer
fit in cylinders. Rattle heard when accelerating
on the overrun is most likely due to play
in crankshaft bearings. If piston slap is not
excessive, there is no occasion to spend money
in reboring or fitting new pistons, but crank-
shaft knock is more serious, and bearings
should be taken up immediately.
* * * *
M.E.A. (Tamworth, N.S.W.). —•My new ’36
model six-cylinder sedan, now thoroughly run
in at 4000 miles, seems to be overcooled. Even
when driven fast in hilly country the water
temperature never passes 140 deg. I under-
stand the motor does not run efficiently at this
temperature, and, if that is so, how can it be
adjusted ?
Your car is fitted with a fixed thermostat by-
pass valve in the header pipe above cylinder
block, and short of replacing it with an adjust-
able unit there is no simple way to get good
all-round results. Under average driving con-
ditions a higher and more efficient water tem-
perature can be obtained either by blocking off
a section of the radiator core—the exact
amount being the subject of a series of ex-
periments—or by removing the fan from the
pulley. In both instances, however, long
periods of idling or heavy second-gear work
will cause boiling.
* « * *
W.A.B. (Brisbane). —(1) What is the average
mileage that can be reasonably expected from
heavy-duty tyres used under average conditions,
not rough country roads? (2) When buying
new. tyres, is it advisable to get new tubes as
well ? (3) To ensure even wear of all tyres,
including spare, I intend to change wheels each
month, the spare going first to n.s. rear, then
n.s. front, o.s. front, o.s. rear and so back to
the carrier. Is the idea sound ?
(1) Average tread mileage when using low-
pressure tyres of sufficient width to carry any.
particular load would be 10,000 to 15,000 miles,
speed and inflation pressures being deciding
factors. Air wheels will give slightly higher
mileages and high-pressure equipment less.
(2) If rubber is not perished and reasonably
free from patches, there is no reason to replace
tubes. (3) Should give good results.


“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.;
Per inch per thousand of
its advertising rates are the lowest;:
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON,-LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne-Office: Newspaper House, Collins St. t
F. RIEUSSET, Representative. , J
The truth about
Advertising!
We invite you to
take our word, of
course .•. . but in
case our story
sounds too good to
be true, ask the
man who advertises
■ in i
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
: JSet Sales , 61,361
Representation :
' ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. Q. Pike. First Floor.
Newspaper House. Collins street.,
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger. Warwick'
' Bull dint. Hamilton street. ’
LONDON—P. A. Smyth. 3v40 Ludeate
k .Hill. E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
j . ~ ■ .j, • *
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
> •’ -i L
• /*, : S I',, V
, For, particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency-
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily . by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
in ADVERTISING
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” (Eet. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS
REACH THE HOMES IN LAUNCESTON
AND THE NORTH
Full Information. Copies, Advertising Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD.. 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Coilins-st., Melbourne Cl
W. G. DOUGAN. 56 Hunter-st,, Sydney.
You can’t
ignore BAM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
His eyes focused on the man opposite, wandered
off to glance over the camp gear, then back again.
“Is your father still alive?”
“Yes ; he’s all right! Still running things down
below.”
“What made you leave a good home for this
damned droving game, Mac?”
The younger man fidgeted, his eyes on the toes
of his boots.
“Oh, I don’t know,” he began slowly ; then added
with deliberate candor, “I wanted to get away —to
make more money—for myself.”
He looked up defiantly into the Other man's lop-
sided smile.
“What is she like, Mac? Is she worth it?”
Mac dropped his eyes again ; then in slow, dis-
jointed fashion the story came away. “When we
started at Thalia —that’s what we called the selection
—there was a terrible lot of work to be done ; but
dad wanted me to go to school, although there wasn t
a school within miles of us. Just before this the
owner of Camelot came back to live there with his
wife and daughter—she was about my age, and she
had a governess.
“Dad and her father got on well together, though
somehow he never seemed to hit it with.her mother ;
anyhow, the governess reckoned it would be better
for the girl to learn in company than oh her own,
so I used to ride over every day, and another girl
came from a neighbor’s place. I didn’t like it much,
and her mother didn’t like me much either; but the
girl was a good sport, and we were good, cobbers.
“Then she was sent to school in Sydney. I went
back to give dad a hand on the place, but he was still
keen on me going on with school. Then wh.cn - he
proposed sending me to .Sydney for a year I didn’t,
object as much as I did before ; so in the end I went.v
I used to see her now and again down there —at sports
meetings, at the boatrace and sometimes at week-ends.
When my year was up I came home, but she stayed
on at school. She used to bring a crowd up for the
holidays” .
He hesitated, and the man opposite drawled with
a lazy smile in his half-closed eyes.
“And what happened—did you switch on to
another girl, or did she go cold on you?”
“We were just as good pals as ever, but she
seemed different. She did the maddest things—and
that flash crowd she was with ; I sort of dropped
out. When the war started I was too young to go.
Dad was too old, but one day he came back from
town and told us he had enlisted and I would have
to run the place till he got back.”
Mac relapsed into a troubled silence with the
thoughts of those years.
“She used to spend most of her time in Sydney,
but when she came up to the station, although she
knew perfectly well I couldn’t get away to the war,
even at the end, when I was old enough to enlist, she
used to say things—talk about the soldiers she wrote
to; it made me feel mad.
“After dad came back I went down to Sydney
for a holiday and met her there. She was chasing
round with a chap in officer’s uniform. I cut
in whenever I got the chance, and took her
to theatres and so on. She was just as nice as
ever when we were on our own— and one day 1
asked her to marry me.” 1
The set look and clouded eyes made him look
ten years older,
“She listened for a while, then she started to
laugh. ‘Why, Bob,’ she said, ‘you’re only a boy, and
I want to have a lot of fun before I think of getting
married.’
“Next time I went to the house only her mother
was at home. She’s one of those women that can smile,
with everything except their eyes. I forget her exact.,
words, but what they amounted to was that I ; was
only the son of a struggling cocky; her daughter'lived
in a different world, and fshe wouldn’t think of allow-
ing her to marry a poor jinan. ■ ,
“Just as, I was leaving the house a lot of that
chattering, laughing crowd arrived. I went straight
through them, but the girl ran after me.
“‘What’s the matter, Bob?’ she asked. ‘Don’t
be silly about the other day—you know I didn t mean
it.’ J just said "gO'od-bye . , . I was going home. At
the corner I looked backI—she 1 —she was still standing there
. alone, but I kept on going.”
“Good little man! Treat ’em rough!” A mis-
chievous light gleamed in the veiled eyes opposite.
“Going back on the train I made up my mind
to move off. I wanted to make money—to make
it quick —and I knew I couldn’t do it at home. Dad
wasn’t keen on my going, but I couldn’t stay. I came
back to Longreach, picked up a few horses and started
droving. They remembered dad —he always had a
good name. But there isn’t much money in the short
trips, so I wrote to the Territory for a mob of cattle
and got it.”
The raillery that had been mounting in Bill at
the forlorn recital faded suddenly. He sat up and
peered at the man opposite with astonishment and
disbelief written all over his face.
“Mac! Did you say you were on your way to
the Territory to lift a mob of cattle ?”
“Yes!”
“Cattle ! With this one-eyed, misbegotten collec-
tion of freaks!” Bill collapsed weakly against the
packsaddle at his back.
“You —poor — cow ! Go home while you have a
chance . . . marry a barmaid . . . join the police
force —anything for a quiet life ; but for the love of
Mike don’t insult a Territory bullock by showing it
these horses!”
Mac eyed him doggedly.
“They’re all right! They’re not flash, but I’ve
had them on the road with cattle.”
“Yes!” —derisively. “A dozen bulls, or a mob
of milkers! Look here, Mac! Go back and stick
to sheep; but I’ll warn you now that no station
manager would hand over a mob of cattle to a plant
like yours. How many cattle are you getting?”
“Twelve hundred.”
“Even if your horses were good you haven’t half
enough!”
“I’m going to get more up there.”
“Well, you’re optimistic anyhow; but I’ll tell
you now that the only horses they’ll sell at the price
you want to- pay are old crocks, useless things or
outlaws. And where are your men?”
Mac’s look hardened.
“A couple left on the-way up. I got two more
in Boiilia yesterday—and they left, too.”
Bill shook his head sorrowfully.
“Mac, the Babes in the Wood have nothing on
you! Most of the Territory mobs are on their way
down now —you’ll be the last to leave; It has been
a bad year on the river, and what grass : there is will
be pretty well cleaned up before your mob reaches it.
“Well, tell me where I can get men.”
“It wouldn’t be a damned bit of good. You ve
got to learn first how to keep a man when you get
him. You’ll want decent stockhorses, in the first
place,', a’good cook and the best tucker you can get.
. Mac shook-his head sullenly. “I can’t afford it.
I want to make some money out of the trip.
> “How much money will you, make •if you find
yourself left on your own to be-cook, horsetailer and
everything else about the pldce, to twelve hundred
rushing bullocks?;. You’re mad, man! Go back to
Longreach'arid stick to sheep.’-’ .
Again ■ the, head shook stubbornly.. “I m going
on with it!” . . V". V ,
Bill stared moodily at the ground in front of him
for a long tirne. 1 Then.hie rose slowly to, his feet, and,
still preoccupied, carefully, saddled the bjg. bay horse.
Mac emptied the tea billy, moving heavily around
in an aimless'sort of way. ‘ ''
“Mac!” ;' ;• ; It";
He turned to face Bill, standing serious and
thoughtful by the bay’s shoulder.
“Your old man gave me-a start when I knew less
about sheep than you do about cattle, and it s for his
sake, that I’m saying this. Do you want me to help
you out with this job?”
“Do you mean it?”
“I’ll come in with my own horses and gear on
condition, that you let me buy you some decent stock-
horses. • I’ll try to get you men and a cook between
here and Camooweal, on condition that you supply
the best tucker available for him to cook. I m not
trying to rob you—only to knock some commonsense
into that thick head of yours.”
Mac nodded agreement.
Bill swung smoothly to the saddle and turned for
a final' word.
“Get your plant together, and get out of this
to a decent camp. There’s a waterhole on a little
creek five miles out there with good grass on it. Stop
there for a day or two, or until I turn up. I’m going
to see what I can do —not for your sake, but partly
for your old man’s sake, and mostly for the sake of
a better man than you and me and all of us could
ever hope to be . . . and be damned to you!
Mac watched the receding dust cloud till it dis-
appeared in the big river timber ; then he started to
pack up with a new briskness. A flock of green parrots
dived into a tree, twittering and scolding. Across the
waterhole a minah answered cheekily back, and made
some pertinent remarks on the morals of parrots in
general. Mac looked: up at the birds with a good-
humored smile. He had not been in a mood to notice
them lately. ! !
(To be continued next^week.)


i
I*
rhotu. hay Udityhan
Mr, W. J. Ennever
Founder of The Pelman Institute.
Three of the many
distinguished
Pelmanists.
Dr. F. W, NORWOOD, D.D.,
The World’s Evangelist.
“Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood of
the City Temple. London, says,
“is Sound Psychology and an
admirable system of Mind- train-
ing A proper grasp of Pelman-
ism would save any life from
futility....Pelmanlsm t e a c h e s
that mail has the key to his own
career and enables many to find
the key.”
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.
“Pelmanism,” says , Dame Sybil
Thorndike; “gives mind exercise
scientifically. It not only im-
proves, but actually discovers,
qualities that would otherwise
have remained dormant.”
LORD BADEN-POWELL,
“I feel that no man—no matter
how educated or what his age—
who seriously takes up the course
can go through it without im-
proving himself.’'
Many, other distinguished men and
women who are Pelmanists are
quoted in the Pelrnah Book, “The
Efficient Mind.”
The Confidence that
Pelmanism Gives
J.SMItH
PLUMBER
KE uMAfMISM DEVELOPS
memory
“ ‘Can’t’
has slipped
out of my
vocabulary,"
writes a Pelman
student.
“That great handicap, Inferiority
Consciousness, has gone for ever.
‘Can't* has just slipped out of my
vocabulary. The Course has broadened
my mind more than five years of life
could have done.. I have been able to
distinguish the hollow things of life and
-—pushing them into the background
have discovered what a really wonderful
world this is.*'
'T'HIS remarkable letter is one of thousands
received by the Pelman Institute. It
will come as a message of hope to many of
those who are handicapped by any of these
defects
Diffidence,
Shyness.
Timidity.
Self-Depreciation.
Lack of Self-
confidence.
Lack of Social
Courage.
Fear of Failure.
Fear of the Future.
Fear of Taking
Responsibility.
Fear of doing some-
thing unusual or out
of the ordinary.
Hesitation.
And all those weak-
nesses and failings
which are associated
with the phrase.
The Inferiority Complex,
one of the greatest handicaps that can
burden any man or woman to-day.
For. as the above letter shows and students
of Pelmanism know, this inferiority handi-
cap can be completely overcome and the
word “can’t” can be eliminated from every-
one’s vocabulary by Pelmanism, scientific
blind training which all can follow, which
takes up very little time and is as interesting
to practise as it is effective in its results.
People
whose
Talents
are Wasted
There are few
weaknesses s o
harmful as the
feeling of personal
inferiority. ' 11
injures your pros-
pects of success.
It strikes at the
very root of your
happiness.
a
M\\
Pelmanism develops
resourcefulness
You may be extremely talented in many
directions. But if you have no confidence
in yourself these talents will be largely
As a matter of fact, inferiority conscious-
ness is often found in association with
mental gifts that are above the ordinary;
for it is particularly liable to be harboured
by the Sensitive temperament, which is fre-
quently associated with keen intelligence.
The mind of the “Sensitive,” freed from this
hostile influence, may be capable of great
and even soaring achievements, if only it is
trained in the right way, and that, as the
letter already quoted shows, is the Pelman
way. ,
People who are Afraid
This lack of Self-confidence, this feeling of
Inferiority, these wretched fears or phobias,
.take different forms with different people.
There are people even to-day who shrink
from using the telephone. There are many
people who are afraid to open the door of
their employer’s room. There are people
who allow their rights to be taken from
them, who are pushed aside by more deter-
mined rivals, who are tongue-tied when
questioned, who are afraid to act because
they do not know what the consequences
will be.
Fears Banished and Self-Confidence
Developed
Pelhanism”develOP3
CONCEntraT'ON
Here are a few
reports taken at
random from the
tens of thousands
of similar state-
ments that could
be Quoted did
space permit:—
“Cured I'ear.”
“Pelmanism has
cured the fear of
self and of failure
to keep pace with
my colleagues at
the office, the fear
of criticism, of
inte rv lews, of
social company and of rush periods. I have
also learnt how to control the fear of the
unexpected."
“Inferiority Complex is Dead.”—“l have
rid myself of all fears of the future. The
inferiority complex is dead. The Course; has
improved my Memory. I have now a definite
aim in life.”
“Improved Concentration.” —“lncreased
Self-Confidence, Improved Concentration.
Quicker Decisions, Pelman principles applied
to an ordinary round day’s work make It
an interesting, sometimes an absorbing pro-
cedure.”
“Personality has Developed.” —“l have lost
nervous fear, I am more self-confident. I
take more interest in Nature and everything
in~general. I have also more interest in my
work. My powers of Observation are better
now than I have ever known them to be
before. My personality has developed, and
I have gained a lot in knowledge.”
“Confidence in Myself.” —“The Course has
given me what I required, namely, I have
regained confidence in myself. I am more
businesslike. My mind is better balanced
than it was before. I am not at the mercy
of my emotions, and my general health has
improved.”
Correspondence Instruction
Pelmanism is a
system of Prac-
tical Psychology
which is taught
through the post
by expert instruc-
tors and is prac-
tised by the
student in his or
her own time and
place. Amongst
the mental dispo-
sitions developed
by Pelmanism are
the following:—
*»•-
\V 0
0
PRESENCE
I.NO
Self-Confidence
Moral Courage
Good Judgment
Initiative
Observational Power
Determination
Decisiveness
Directive Ability
Concentration
Organising Power
Self-Control «
Social Ease
Resource f ulnes s
Creative Imagination
Reliability
A Reliable Memory
7i rT
(C*‘
Pelmanism dcvslop*
SALES MANSHIP
and all those
qualities w.lii c h
help to build up
Character, to con-
stitute a vivid,
strong Personality,
and to increase
Income - Earning
Power.
Pelmanism 1 s
a necessity to
every man and
every woman who
wishes to do good
work, to ensure a
good income, and
to make the best of the mental
qualities with which all have been endowed
but that so many have neglected to culti-
vate. Cultivate your mind on Pelman lines
and success will follow. Enrol to-day for a
Course of Pelmanism.
A copy of “The
Efficient Mind,”
76 pp., in which
many people speak
of Pelmanism from
personal experience
and tchich contains
the opinions of
Pelmanism contri-
buted by a number
of the most dis-
tinguished ni e n
and women in the
Empire, will be
sent free on
application.
KHTST
IT
PeuMAMISM DEVELOPS
COURAGE
Write or use the Request Form below:
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne,
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation. Its headquarters are in
London. The Institute in Melbourne has
been established for 27 years.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 33,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
CUT OUT OR COPY THIS AND POST TO-DAY.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. I.
Please send your free book, "The Efficient Mind.”
Name . .
Address . . .
433
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
d
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
o
;
& *
o
V e
c®
X \P
<> „ v°
V--v-
- -•-•• V^ V
o*
.••* A <vce vv %t
.•• Qy S e l


m
mm
ITKU
CORPORA
'
'
m
A
rwi wr
A ft
#
f
m
m
mm
r 7
mr
/mm
Safes claims In print all sound alike—tests, and tests alone, will prove
the true value of Atlantic Ethyl* in your modern high compression
engine. That's why we ask you to test Atlantic Ethyl yourself. We've
tested it already—and so have countless motorists —for two solid
years! We know it's THE fuel thatdevelops FULL KNOCKLESS power
in 1934, 1935, 1936 cars and in all earlier models with high
compression motors. So now you test it and prove it for yourself -
ATLANTIC ETHYL IS Al!
* Models (other than those with high compression motors) introduced before
1934 , having comparatively low compression and consequent freedom from
knock , will develop full power output on Atlantic Petrol.
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO LTD., . —A.E2-36,
