

S E RVIC E
/ALWAYS alert, and ready to render the Public a service
demanding supreme courage and physical fitness of the
highest order backed by specialised knowledge, the fireman
is trained in the operation of Valuable technical equipment.
Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. likewise, ever at the service
of the investing public, provides personnel, records and know-
ledge, thereby affording full measure of protection against
losses. Clients are advised freely regarding all types of
investment
Shares in ESI ABLISHED Companies of proved dividend-
earning capacity, backed by adequate tangible assets, form
the basis of all offerings from Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd.
Furthermore, the Hamilton Service, which guarantees that
balance-sheets and full information regarding investments are
available at all times to the investor, ensures both Safety and
Security.
Data covering such service, together with the monthly circular
“PROFITS,”i are available free on application to
sd
■ I
f
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KBMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SIDNEY,
Thonea: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Branch Office: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W-* Phone: Armidale 150. Box No. 123 Armidale
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520. T.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
ƒdh
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
The Last of Lasseters
Vol. 57.—N0. 2944.
Wednesday, July 15, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
WO Russell Street, Melbourne.
____ _ CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please ' send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write {or Profit , as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Mg Name
My A ddress .
S.B. 136
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H, K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known,
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
vear for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible lor
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries lor the third competition will close on June 6, 1937.
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
S. H PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees. . .
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will, be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must'be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A MARTYRED
POET
Robert South-
well is chiefly
known to the
common reader
for “The Burning
Babe,” present in most anthologies (per-
haps on the authority of Jonsdn, who
said to Drummond: “Though Southwell
was; hanged, yett soe I had written that
piece of his The Burning Babe’ I would,
have been content to destroy many of
mine”). Too often the solid body of a
poet’s work has suffered from the antholo-
gists’ predilection for some one or two
pretty pieces: against every reader who
knows the contemporary Yeats, that
austere poet, hundreds must see him
through the romantic haze of Innisfrce :
and Southwell has been, too much re-
garded as a poet of quaint conceits and
some fervor, but little more. The main
body of his work has not, it is true, been
readily accessible (there has been no
complete edition of the poems since 1876,
and the prose is even harder to come by).
There has lately come from France a
very remarkable study of Southwell
{Robert Southwell the Writer, by Pierre
Janellc), and now one believes that South-
well may be seen in his full aspect: the
first of the English “metaphysicals,”'the
founder of a tradition which has worked
in Donne, Crashaw, Vaughan, Herbert,
Milton, Drydcn and latterly in Hopkins
and the Eliot of Ash Wednesday.
The exuberance of the English Renais-
sance was a somewhat disordered exuber-
ance: it lacked the authority and strength
of a coherent philosophy, and conse-
quently, as one observes in the collapse
of the Theatre before Puritanism, it was
unable to withstand attack (the Theatre
had been intellectually and morally de-
feated before the theatres were closed).
On the Continent, however, the Counter-
Reformation produced the great classical
revival, of the seventeenth century: it
was the Trend ne classicism which South-
well, tempered in the new schools of
France and Italy, brought to English
letters.
The Reformation, as Arnold under-
stood, was essentially a revolt of “Hebra-
ism” against “Hellenism.” Luther’s
astounding and (in these polite days and
polite journals) unprintable attacks on
philosophy and the reason itself had
their English consequences in Puritanism ;
and the romantic, anti-intellectual ten-
dencies which have since been of great
influence in English letters (and in Eng-
lish life) are its bequest. The Counter-
Reformation was essentially a “Hellen-
ist” reaction. The Council of Trent
represents the Catholic appeal to
reason, an appeal which has never
been understood or even ranch
credited in the Anglican world at large,
but which nevertheless has influenced the
best Anglican thought. Almost all the
“metaphysical” and devotional poets of
the seventeenth century were influenced
strongly by the Catholic culture. One
can work back through Dryden, Milton,
Crashaw, Vaughan and Donne (I am not,
of course, suggesting that Milton in-
clined to the Counter-Reformation, but
referring to certain elements which
occasionally appear in his thought and
technique, which spring from post-Trcn-
tine classicism, and enter English letters
with Southwell), observing to their origins
in Southwell, not only the devotional
moods but the disciplined and muscular
thought, the purity of line, and that
balance and restraint which we have
come to regard as characteristic of the
best English minds (and even of the Eng-
lish “gentleman” ideal). Balance and
restraint are hardly eminent characters
of the court and theatre poets or of the
Puritans. The paradox of the “meta-
physicals,” their combination of strange
and often fantastic imagery with athletic,
vigorous thought, belongs to the baroque.
Shaw has said that all great art is
propaganda: certainly, all great art is
a suasion which moves our intellectual
and emotional life, colors and conditions
it. The influence of Southwell’s poetry
was immediate and great, as its extra-
ordinary circulation in the few years of
his mission and the years after his death
indicates: even the Queen who sent him
to death (and for whom he prayed with
his last words, as he strangled at the
end of the rope) read and re-read him:
and his tradition has persisted, appearing
with particular force in the work of the
moderns. (Hopkins, himself a Jesuit,
was in the direct line: while Eliot’s dis-
like of Shelley, lately a matter of com-
ment on this page, is not a dislike of the
“poetic” virtues of Shelley, but of the
romantic disorder of Shelley’s mind.
Poetry returns or seeks to return to the
tradition which requires intellectual sub-
stance, philosophic coherence, right
reason, and which abhors all woolliness ~)
Southwell’s early work possesses most
of (he irritating tricks and elaborated
conceits of the fashionable poets of the
day ; his purpose obviously was to reach
their audience, and he used their tech-
nique, But, tricked to torture and death,
his style during the long agony and im-
prisonment is truly the man: exquisite
and tender beyond all other Elizabethans,
lucid, pure, rational and profoundly
moving.
The racked Southwell meant every
word he wrote. How greatly he meant
it all, he showed when they brought him
to Tyburn. Such a poet and such a death
required not fancies and sentiments and
romantic attitudes, but a philosophy.
D. P. McGUIRE.
An Unwritten
Book.
Curious that
Methods of Char-
act erisation in
Literature h a s
never been done.
The book would deal with what is cer-
tainly one of the outstanding aspects of
literature and one that makes a pro-
found impression on the public. Once
the man in the street has given his affec-
tions to a fictitious personage, he remains
true to him, in spite of repetitions, in-
consistencies and inferior work gener-
ally. The demand of readers has been
responsible for more than one resurrec-
tion: e.g., Falstaff, Sherlock Holmes and
Haggard’s She. The d’Artagnan series
and the Forsyte saga, even the young-
sters’ Buffalo Bill, Deadwood Dick and
Sexton Blake, show how unwilling we
arc to farewell an old favorite.
The author of this future masterpiece
would go exhaustively into various levels
or degrees of characterisation, from
puppet or lay figure to “stock” charac-
ter, the sketch and finally the individual.
A practised writer like Shakspcarc can
do a sufficiently competent piece of por-
traiture almost automatically. In his
plays wc find such stopgaps almost on
the same page as some of his best work.
Interesting results might be obtained
by comparison of similar types. Our
literature is rich in the humor of incor-
rect speech—talkers like Dogberry, Mrs.
Malaprop, Mrs, Nickleby and Sarah
Gamp. (An anthology of these would be
a useful appendix to the ordinary school
grammar and might make a greater im-
pression than the rest of the volume.)
On a higher level we have a number of
old English gentlemen”—-Chaucer’s
Knight, Sir Roger de Coverley, the Vicar
of Wakefield and Colonel Newcomc. The
comparative method would be usefully
employed in analysing the difficulties
some writers have with their heroes and
villains and explaining why so often the
most convincing portraits arc those of
subordinate figures.
One important section of the book
would be a discussion of the conflict
between characterisation and any kind of
propaganda. If you have a moral or
lesson to enforce and try to fit people
into the frame of your scheme, you dis-
tort them. That is why so many of
.Shaw’s characters arc nqt worth remem-
bering. We remember what they say, but
we do not remember them. Sherlock
Holmes, stagy as he is, has more vigor
than a dozen Bluntschlis or Rainas. They
are the product, not of Shaw’s heart, but
of his intellect. Convincing characters
are created by an intuition that ariscsx
from sympathy. Too much, brainwork
over a character sets up dangerous cross-
currents ; the portrait becomes blurred.
More than one writer has acknow-
ledged that his creations, like that of
Frankenstein, though less painfully, have
taken command of a book and refused
to submit to the plan of action laid down
for them. Some, like Thackeray and
Galsworthy, have deliberately aimed at
this species of possession and gone on
writing until the characters “come alive.
With these suggestions I leave this un-
written book to some daring author.
I hope 1 live to read it.
R. G. HENDERSON.
Words 9
Associations
A Red Page
contributor has
delivered the
op i n ion that
“most harm is
done when writers of established repute
misuse words, for the inexperienced will
lake them as authoritative and not trouble
to check them with a decent dictionary.”
Which is excellent as far as it goes. It
goes no further than the nose on your
face, but that is some distance on the
road of a problem that has puzzled the
best writers since writing and talking
came into existence.
Take the word “love.” My dictionary
throws little light on its meaning, al-
though its compilers have devoted more
than half a column to definitions. They
call it affection ; strong regard; parental
fondness and care; filial regard and duti-
fulness; towards mankind, benevolence ;
a marked preference for, and deVoted
attachment to, one of the opposite sex;
towards one’s country, patriotism ; and
so forth and so on. But this tells the
reader nothing about love.
The Greeks had one conception of
love, the Christian has another. A Greek'
and a Trobriand islander talking about
love together would give the word
something the same extension ; but a
Christian or a young woman of to-day
who attends a great deal at the pictures
would think they were not talking about
love but about something inexpressibly
revolting.
Socrates spent a great deal of time try-
ing to make his fellow-Athenians under-
stand the extensions he gave the terra
without much success. If a Trobriander
tried to define it in his terms to a com-
munity of white people they would put
him in prison or a madhouse. Ihe
reason for tilts is that, while every indi-
vidual receives from the external world
the same sensations and. is subject to the
same biological urges, the explanations
he gives himself of these phenomena arc
conditioned by his education. After he
has been smacked by his nurses, frowned
on and wept over by his parents, and
knocked down by his schoolmasters a
few times, his spirit is broken. There-
after he will interpret these sensations in
terms of the frowns, the tears, the ad-
monitions and the blows which were
called forth by his first experiences.
In other words, we like this thing or
we hate it, not because of its inherent
qualities, but because our early experi-
ences have been surrounded with
pleasant or unpleasant associations.
This is all everyday gossip nowadays,
but it is relevant to the contention that
the writer should be subservient to the
dictionary. The best writers have always
known, intuitively or consciously, that
literature is a very indirect, inadequate
and clumsy medium. They know that in
using words they are not using something
that has an invariable meaning, such as
a patch of red in a painting of Nature.
They know that words are merely sym-
bols for associations and that the associa-
lions surrounding every word they use
are different for every reader. They will
/therefore be found never to be using
“love” or any other word without going
to the most extraordinary pains to define
what they, not their readers, mean by it.
The care that a Dostoieffsky, a Chek-
hov, a Tolstoy, a Thomas Hardy or a
Lawrence bestowed on this self-imposed
task should merit a reader’s intense
reverence. They were not content to
write that a woman fell in love with a
man and expect the reader to find out
what they meant by consulting a dic-
tionary. They wrote scores of books and
hundreds of stories so that, as far as they
themselves were concerned at least, there
would be no mistake about it. They
described minutely what the lovers said,
what they did, how their fellow human
beings reacted to their words and deeds,
their conditioned and unconditioned re-
flexes. In other words, they were pro-
found psychologists who were as well
aware of what they were doing as Freud
and Adler. Freud knows that to tell a
patient that he is the victim of an CEdi-
pus complex reveals nothing to the patient.
He listens to the patient, and then talks
to him for a year or ten years until the
patient begins to see himself through
Freud’s eyes—unless he is so horrified by
what he sees that he flies to a herbalist
or a chiropractor. In other words,
Freud divests the words the patient uses
from their customary associations and
gives them his own new ones. And the
best writers arc engaged in precisely the
same activity.
A writer has only one use for a dic-
tionary—it teaches him to spell correctly.
M. G. SKIPPER.
“Boy” and
Censorship,
There is one
fact missing from
E. M. Forster’s
statement ’of the
prosecution of the
bookseller who distributed and the pub-
lishers of Boy (R.P. 18/6/‘36). The case
is set out in "Author" (official organ of
the Incorporated Society of Authors,
Artists and Composers) for June, 1935.
This is the missing fact:
On February 26, 1935, the directors
(three) of the defendant publishing com-,
pany attended (ho Assize, Manchester, sur-
rendering to bail. Upon consultation with
local ' counsel it; was suggested that an
immediate application be made to the
Judge to postpone the hearing pending the
reading of the book in its entirety by the
Judge himself rather than let the case be
tried on the distorted evidence of selected
extracts, lorn, from their actual context.
The Judge agreed and granted the neces-
sary extension of bail. On March 20 the
case was heard before Mr. Justice Porter,
who fined each defendant £5O and the
company £250, total £4OO.
To my mind the importance of this fact
is that the tine was inflicted by the Judge
after his reading and consideration of the
book. True, it does not follow that be-
cause he was a member of the British
{Continued on page 4.)


•TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
"The Senior Store” /KSSSL '‘While I Live I’ll Grow ”
ANTHONY-HORDERNS
“The Sale of the Winter Season”
i
ms
■
i m
mu
m
m
m
>vrf
m
Vvs
mm
m
i?"~
>::
m
fcs
m
Left—l.
79/6 LEATHER
OVERCOATS
724
Adequate protection will be pro-
vided against both cold winds and
wet weather by these Leather
Overcoats. Tailored in Double-
breasted style from fine-grained
genuine hides. Deep collar,
comfortable fitting with full belt.
Price 79/6
Sale Price 72/6
79/6 POLO O’GOATS
65'-
Overcoats expertly tailored in
popular Polo style preferred by
young men. Double-breasted
with deep two-way collar and
full belt. Dressy tonings of
Fawn and Grey for selection.
Price . 79/6
Sale Price, each 65/-
(Not Illustrated)
79/6 MEN’S PURE WOOL TWEED WARM O’COATS
Besides being smart in style, these Wool Tweed Overcoats are warm and made
for practical service. They represent specially keen value at this reduced price.
Tailored in Raglan or Double-breasted styles in Pure Wool Herringbone Tweeds
of Grey tonings. All men’s fittings. Price, each . 79/6
Sale Price, each 69/6
/
84/- MEN'S READY-TO-WEAR SUITS
• PURE WOOL WORSTEDS
• WELL CUT AND FINISHED
• BEST QUALITY LININGS
AND INTERHNINGS
dfg
These Sac Suits are far better than the usual Ready-for-service Sac
Suits obtainable at 59/6. They were made to sell at 84/- each,
and incorporate expert tailoring, best quality linings and trimmings.
Made from solid Pure Wool Worsteds in neat stripes and other
fancy designs of Grey and Brown tones. Price 847-
Sale Price 59/6
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
25/- “TREE” BRAND SUPER
It would be hard to find Shoes that BJ C*
will give you better service than “Tree” In
Brandi Super Footwear, made expressly
for Anthony Horderns’. 250 pairs are
offering in Tan Calf, Black Box Calf
and Havana Brown. New circular
vamp models. Full and half sizes.
Every fitting and style.
Price, pair 257-
Sal e Price, pair . . ■ 21/-
2 Y-
@ Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
m
wm
m
7
32/6 DRESSING GOWNS
21/-
Remarkably keen
price indeed for
gowns of this quality
and tailored excel-
lence. Made from extra warm
weight All Wool Tweed, they’re
extremely cosy and serviceable as
well. Finished check Collar, Cuffs
and Facings to tone. Dressy Mid-
Greys, Nig g e r-B ro w n and
Heather effects. All sizes.
Price 32/6
Sale Price 21/-
• Men’s Mercery —Ground Floor,
George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and sea-
ports in the Commonwealth.
SEND FOR A
COPY OF OUR
FREE SALE
CATALOGUE
•
Anthony Hordern
and Sons Ltd.,
Sydney
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C.


\
X
mm
■■■' ■■■ ■■ ;v v
Get mote mototlvu/ mc&o
lot i/ottA. mott&i/
V ' WITH '
Super Plume £
-1 THE S POWER PETROL §
IIEAROm Mobiloil
PRACTICALLY 100% PURE LUBRICANT
judiciary he must be a competent critic
of literature, but it is not too much to
assume that his training and position
would make him an authority on what
is—or is not —obscene.
READER.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
THE paper band round the jacket
carries the opinion of Admiral Sir
William Goodenough that The Southern
Gates of Arabia, by Freya Stark, “is a
classic”-
“And how,” demanded the devil at
my elbow, “does Sir William know that?
Aren’t classics a matter of maturity any
longer? Aren’t they the gold deposits
left to be dug up by futurity when the
flood of hooey and ballyhoo has gone
by?”
“Classic,” I said, defensively, “is a
figure of speech. The book, moreover,
has been recommended by the Book
Society. It has had high praise from
English critics. In the face of that testi-
mony”—
“You’re talking like Joe Lyons,” said
ihe devil at elbow. “What is your own
opinion?”
“Well, I read it with enjoyment. The
author has a delightfully familiar way
of describing her adventures”
“Delightfully familiar?” he said.
“Hand it over for a minute. Thank you.
Listen to this: ‘The latter now .appeared
with a cartridge belt and French rifle, to
the butt of which was added a rounded
piece of wood covered with gazelle skin,
as is the Hadhramaut fashion for all
their guns.’ I don’t wonder at you call-
ing it familiar. What surprises me is
that one like you who uses Arabia
Deserta for a pillow doesn’t call it some-
thing else.”
“You’re like many others,” I flung at
him. “This lady visits Arabia, so you
must dig up Doughty, to whom the re-
semblance is extremely slight.”
“I suggest,” he said, “it is the lady
who has done that digging. And have
you noticed in Doughty,” he asked,
“the terrific song that hard doer made
out of nothing? I happened to be with
him on that trip, paying a prospective
call on Mecca. Well, he went into
Arabia, and nothing happened to him.
He lived with the Arabs, and they didn’t
treat him at all badly, for Arabs. And
look what he made of it! Your two
tomes of him weigh 4ilb. What you’d
call one of the outstanding imaginative
works in the language. He didn’t need
anything to happen. He just went into
the desert and dramatised himself. He’d
have done as well on the Nullarbor.”
“But this lady”
“Well, isn’t that what she has done?
She gets off a boat at Makalla, hires
some guides and donkeys, and goes to a
few places a bit off the tourists’ track,
none of them out of sight of R.A.F. fly-
ing grounds, and at the most outlandish
of them there’s motor-cars and a wireless
set. In one place when she offers her
letters of introduction she’s cold-
shouldered, the locals follow her away
with ugly looks and she keeps them off by
taking their photos. She gets sick and an
R.A.F. ’plane comes and takes her off.
That’s the lot. And look what she makes
of it! She dramatises every foot of the
journey. She makes it a thrill. Doughty
couldn’t have made more out of as
much.”
“Well, isn’t that high praise?”
“High enough. I’m not disparaging
the book ; I’m just telling you the truth
about it. If I had to review it I’d give
it a pat. People who read travel books
would like it.”
* * * *
“And what about this one — Journey
Without Mops, by Graham Greene?”
He took it up lovingly. His eyes filled
with nostalgic tears.
“It is delightfully familiar,” he said.
“Go on,” I said resignedly. “Who is
it this time?”
“Hemingway,” he answered. “Dear
Ernest. Drunk again, too, so famously
often.”
“But surely,” I said, “Mr. Greene does
not write like Mr. Hemingway?”
“No,” he admitted, “unfortunately he
doesn’t. But he has the he-man touch.
Same honest gulp for whisky. Same eye
for what you’d call the cruder side of
life. Plenty of it on the Ivory Coast, of
course. I mean, now that it’s been
civilised. If I were reviewing it I’d just
say that Greene goes on board a cargo
boat to the Guinea coast, takes a team
of carriers and a sensible load of
whisky, does a few weeks’ trek through
the inland villages, gets jiggers under his
toenails, sleeps with rats, buys an armful
of swords, gets outside the sherbet, gets
outside Africa and damn’ glad to do so ;
writes of same in a manner that all who
have liked such books as Black Africa
Dances will find as frank, instructive and
vigorous as its material is familiar.”
“But surely,” I said, “Mr. Greene has
new, if horrible, things to tell us!”
“Admitted,” he said. “Among them
he praises missionaries.”
* * * *
“Well,” I said, “here’s another
traveller. Here’s Papuan Wonderland,
by J. G. Hides. What do you make of
if?”
“I regret it,” he said. “This Hides is
an influence. Why, the man’s civilised.
And because of that he’s helping to
change one of the finest people in my
whole flock to be like himself. Look
at that Papuan lieutenant of his, Ser-
geant Whatshisname —the bloke that goes
with him and O’Malley, a few native
police and about 30 carriers on this six
months’ trip of theirs into country where
no white man had hitherto disturbed my
honest head-hunters. When have you
come across what you’d call a finer
character than that dusky sergeant’s any-
where? I say you’d call his a fine
character. To my mind he’s more ob-
noxious than a whole roasting of bishops.
Why, he’s the figure of a noble gentle-
man. If that’s the Australian Administra-
tion influence on the native mind, take
me back to the Congo.”
“But even you,” I said, “must admit
Mr. Hides has here written one of the
most stirring travel books you’ve ever
read.”
“Pish,” said devil at elbow, or words
to that effect, “you’re talking like a book
reviewer. Why, the man’s happy! He
admires the country he’s writing about!
He likes the people. He likes it all. Is
that admirable? He and his little crowd
go up the Strickland by boat and then by
canoes ; they cut into the unknown moun-
tainous country ; they look down like my
old friend in the sonnet, silent upon a
peak in Papua, and they see what Hides
describes as a wonderland —vast valley
lands of plotted cultivation, equal plots
bordered with flowering hedges, no
villages but a house to each plot, as if
you’d suddenly come through jungle on
to a hill overlooking Devonshire. That
in central New Guinea! What Gruner
would like Australia to look like. Yes,
and then they descend into this hitherto
unseen wonderland, meet the people, see
their cultivated sweet-potato crops, find
the people shy, but win the confidence
of some of them, have to fight others,
fight them hard. The natives ambush and
attack them. There are fierce encounters.
Yes ; and so they go on. Their tent rots
in that climate. Hides is fearfully ill.
Their food gives out. They live on the
pith out of palm-trees—have you ever
tried it? Raft down a river, within an
ace of going over its jagged Niagara.
So, as you would say, courageously and
magnificently, they, win through.”
“Splendid! That’s exactly how Ido
feel about it. What are you complain-
ing of?”
“Everything,” he said. “No book has
any right to be so good.”
“Why on earth not?”
“Because,” he said sadly, “somebody's
certain to call it a classic.”
C. M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION ...
Honkytonk Girl: T. L. Drakeford
(Greenberg, $2). Author, a native of
Australia, brother of A. S. Drakeford,
M.H.R. ; spent 27 years in China, so his
settings are jake. Scene is mostly Harbin.
Heroine, a Russian maid, became a
honkytonk girl, but kept her virtue
though sore beset by a rich Chinese. Just
when he had at last got her in his
clutches his wife up and stabbed him in
the stummick.
Winter’s End: Edward Holstins
(Geoffrey Bles, 7s. 6d.). One of those
plaited yarns in which the histories of
all the people in a boarding-house are
interwoven. As soon as you get interested
in any character (and you do get inter-
ested in most of them) the narrative
switches to someone else.
BIOGRAPHY . . .
Forty Years —Forty Millions: George
Britt (Farrar and Rinehart; from Angus
and Robertson; 19s. 6d.). Fairly inter-
esting debunking account of the
character and career of Munsey, the
magazine and chain-store magnate, who
arrived in New York with 40 dollars and
by superior ruthlessness built it into 40
millions. A journalist’s epitaph:
Frank Munsey contributed to the jour-
nalism of his day the talent of a meat-
packer, the morals of a money-changer
and the manners of an undertaker. Lie
and his kind have about succeeded in
transforming a once-noble profession into
an 8 per cent, security. May he rest in
trust.
TRAVEL . . .
The Southern Gates of Arabia: Freya
Stark (Murray; 16s. net) ; Journey
Without Maps: Graham Greene (Heine-
mann ; 15s. net); Papuan Wonderland:
J. G. Hides (Blackie and Son ; from
Angus and Robertson ; 9s. 6d.). All in-
teresting, Hides splendid. See Satchel.
Flying Adventures: Walter Mittelholzer
(Blackie and Son ; 10s. 6d. net). Descrip-
tive of flying over Alps, Arctic, Persia,
the Lion of Judah’s late lair, and the
length of Africa as well. For big air-
minded men.
GENERAL ...
A Plain Man’s Guide to Christianity :
Rev. A. R. Vidler (Heinemann; 65.).
More instructional than polemical; no
effort to refute the rationalists and floor
the higher criticism, but a judicious guide
to what the Church of England does and
does not believe in this present year of
grace.
Hero-Dust: James Kemble (Methuen ;
6s. net). This Australian did a good job
in Idols and Invalids, studies in the
effects disease and affliction had on
careers of Nelson, Byron and other-
heroes. Does likewise here with Mary
Queen of Scots, Epicurus, Catherine of
Russia, Milton, Beau Brummell and
Omar Khayyam. Interesting, but he’s
become wordy.
Vari ors Verse.
Song.
All summer long
1 have not seen the sun,
And in the throng
One only lovely one.
And of her has been my song
All summer long.
All winter long
I will not see the sun.
Nor in the throng
One only lovely one,
Yet of her will be my song
All winter long.
N.s.vv.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
On the Crest of the Ridge.
So much of shade and silver, ridge and valley,
Dark bass of fern and far-off treble of rills,
So much of charred hardwood and breeze-
tongued grass
And all this moon-furred jungledom of hills
As you can see before you, O my love,
Take, break for brutes or flutes as passion
wills.
In silver anguish chained too fierce to move,
I say take, break or spurn, but do not turn
Where down behind you, scarred with years
and fern,
Lit with a blacker magic than the moon’s,
Lies half the ridge and half my life in shade.
Light-years of hills lie clear and still before
you,
The gullies fleeced with peace and dewed with
light.
Take, break, or make to violins
Crying the silver agony of night
So much of shade and silver, crest and glade,
Sheep-sad hollow or blade-glad height
As you can see before you ere they fade.
My lips, my limbs are here; but, oh, forbear
Backwards, my love, from this keen crest to
stare
At half the ridge and half my life in shade,
Lit with a blacker magic than the moon’s.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
After Rain.
Some day, I know, I’ll come again,
Though I’ve been dead a thousand years;
I’ll hear some shivering sweet refrain
Blowing, thin-voicedly, along
The drowsy corridors of death,
Till, through the earth, my small dust hears
And stirs, and leaps to trembling breath . . .
Though I am dead a thousand years.
And when, with quickening amaze,
My half-remembering ghost appears
Among the chilly winds that throng
A world made strange by time —oh, then,
Be here, you little leaves, to blaze
About my paths, like fighting men.
TASMANIA.
H. M. BETHUNE.
Poison Gas.
The luxury of the divine despair
Has overtaken all, for here men lie
Inhaling heavy draughts of putrid air
That brings its rotten peace to those who die.
There were some dicta men of Athens spoke;
Good tidings came to Zion one glad day;
Emaciate Gautama bore his yoke;
Devotion poured its ritual over the way.
This God men have importuned, this implored,
Yet we know well what things may now not
be;
Much golden harvest grain is reaped and stored
In the old broken barns of Loyalty.
Someone had said that beauty grows not old,
That true love never dies, that Truth is true
For ever; now, where are your realms of gold'?
Where the prodigious faiths that ravished
you?
For kings the dust, for any slave the prize
And for the mob hooey and ballyhoo;
And this the Science that we subsidise.
And this the love we rear our steeples to!
Science, men’s Krakatoa, spouts its fire;
The golden lava, from the fissured cone
Flows over the broad region of desire,
Smothers the flowering plains—and cools to
stone.
So this is it! The utmost aim and reach
Planned for the race of God! Come home,
good friends,
We’ll give the hour to drink and merry speech,
To-morrow all men’s love and worship ends.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


/ 14 / hat BAD NEWS
CAN BRING MORE ANGUISH
or uour
w hat is the mystery of teeth?
Why don’t our teeth last for a lifetime, like the
fingernails, the eyelashes, or the very bones themselves?
Why has Nature picked out our teeth as the weak spot
among civilised people?
Nobody seems to know why. But the fact remains
that very few people escape dental trouble, and a good
proportion of it is serious. Starting with bleeding gums
or other gum signals, things go from bad to worse until
we face the startling fact that four out of five adults
beyond forty actually have contracted the dread gum
disease known as Pyorrhea.
Pyorrhea does not develop suddenly
People are often inclined to regard Pyorrhea as a
distant danger—something that may happen to other folk
but not likely to touch them. That is why Pyorrhea is so
insidious in its attack. It works underground. The
infection begins at the “gumdine” and eats its way
downward. By the time the victim is aware she has
Pyorrhea it may have been definitely under way for
several years.
Once established, Pyorrhea cannot be cured by
Forhan’s or any other toothpaste. That is why you should
take immediate steps toward prevention. In other words
—get ahead of Pyorrhea trouble. See your dentist
regularly. Get his advise about Pyorrhea diagnosis and
treatment. You will probably find that he, like thousands
in the profession, uses Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astringent, an
ethical preparation for the sole use of Dentists and Dental
Surgeons.
natural! t&ejJi
■
m
h rgs
False teeth often follow Pyorrhea
which comes to 4 people out of
5 past the age of 40.
se dfg
Use Forhan’s and use it faithfully
Don’t wait for bleeding gums to give you a scare. Take up the
use of Forhan’s Toothpaste in your home night and morning, and
take it up deliberately and faithfully. Forhan’s
Toothpaste is the finest we know how to make.
And yet there is no magic in Forhan’s; it
demands real attention on your own part.
Brush your teeth and massage your gums
according to directions.
Start with Forhan’s to-day you will
never regret this safeguarding of your teeth
and health.
Price, 2/-; Extra-large Tube, 3/-.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Co.. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W
Forhan’s
for the gums
i
<rr
n
EGU
|)TOB
WITH
i
.ii
e-c> saSjas
mo.mm
/ i«afeniffs
dSfV.M,
cOr : ;ofjsi
v& vfMtm * H '*, hkft.fi:
ar
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS
PYORRHEA


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
WSim
. *|
MHMWr 8
' '■■■•••
'1 /
r?r MBHB
m
«H
Mi
■i
■
5&&S#£ < /■
w
' ' , ® * v g 4 ,g » '
f lH § .
Bmos . '
—I M—
BgaiuifeggrgT4. mm..,\
K w #f|„| h HfcJti
hhhsbi
Wmmm ■
■
■;v
■
HI
>* >;
M
m
MHi
mm
I&ss&gsgs $&8S$£3g$g" fe & Wm&< mmM&MiWMm,
■I II1 IFSlMWlil V 1 trrr-rwrsi H * I !
11B llfl 11 •. [HI ■ ■
I i| fe- ®..km ' 111> Li; , : ., .; . : . *:
Bi
■an
HI
m
■MHHHI
I I
■
■1
■
II
.........
Hi
1
■H
lo
a
■n
Further View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.
vine


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0, 2944.
July 15, 1936.
DICTATIN’.
“Before I get goin’, would anny other gintleman loike to dictate to me or me lady friend?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
THE LASSETER MYTH.
From time to time The Bulletin is taken to task
for sins of commission and omission, and—its con-
ductors being only human, and therefore fallible —
it has been guilty on both counts. But on one subject,
now once more in the public eye, its conscience is
clear. It has never ministered to the credulity of
people who have believed in the existence of
“Lasseler’s lost reef” or to the cupidity of persons
who have exploited their credulity in one way and
another. It published this paragraph on March 2, 1932.
I haven’t much faith in Lasseter’s reef —I knew Las-
seter. My first acquaintance with him was about 16
years ago, when he was irrigation farming on a 10-acre
lease at Tabulam (N.S.W.). Just before that he had
been prospecting on the Upper Clarence. He claimed
to be a Victorian by birth, but had spent many years
in the U.S.A. He used to write for a local news-
paper, one of his contributions being a bitter denuncia-
tion of the war, in verse. Then he sold out his lease
and enlisted.
Writing to me from Gallipoli, he told me he had
invented a device to make battleships torpedo-proof,
but the naval authorities were not impressed by it.
Next I heard of him was in 1919, when he took out
a Commonwealth patent for “improvements in and
connected with the treatment of wheat for storage or
transport.” He tried to form a company to exploit
this idea, and also applied for Government subsidies,
but it all came to nothing.
In the course of years of more or less regular
correspondence with Lasseter, I gathered that he was
greatly interested in Centralia, though he did not say
he had been there.
His principal preoccupation was inventions. For a
while he was employed on the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
He wanted to revolutionise construction methods, but
got the sack instead. He claimed that two of his ideas—
a salvage scheme and an improved bullet —had been
stolen and others had made a fortune out of them.
In short, he was more or less of a crank, very
aggressive, very self-opinionated and full of large, hope-
ful visions.
Quite in keeping with the character of the man, as
I knew him, is the story of his quarrel with Johns,
and the dispatch of Johns to Alice Springs while
Lasseter went back to find his reef, burying bottles
under the ashes of his campfires so that his route might
not be followed.
The yarn is hardly credible, but Lasseter was not
a very reasonable being. I fear his reef was only one of
the many illusions and delusions that spattered his career.
When 1 knew him he signed himself “Lewis Hubert
Lasseter.” Records of his Centralian expedition give
his name as “Lewis Harold Bell Lasseter.” In matters
like that he was not a stickler for exactitude.
There was a Harold Bell Wright whose novels
had a great vogue seven or eight years ago. He
was much addicted to writing about lonely prospec-
tors and painted deserts and mysterious reefs. No
doubt Harold Bell Lasseter read some of Harold Bell
Wright’s books, and kindred works of our ingenious
visitor Mr. Zane Grey.
But a hundred “desert rats” of fiction could never
move the great heart of a nation as poor Lasseter
did in his remote grave. Directly and indirectly, the
story of his “lost reef” must have cost trusting “in-
vestors” at least half a million pounds Australian, and
probably more.
Scores of companies were formed to find the
“lost reef” or others “just as rich.” Party after party
was sent out; in some cases to mislay themselves
and to be retrieved by search parties—if the search
parties didn’t have to be searched for. Aeroplanes
crashed, motor-cars and -lorries were smashed, and
camels gave up the ghost, but the pursuit of the
unfindable went on. And public funds were tapped
to supplement the squandering of private savings ; at
least one Lasseter’s-reef expedition got a subsidy, and
the Canberra and Perth Administrations were obliged
to succor reefseekers who had run out of water or got
lost, or both
But the floating of Lasseter’s-reef companies and
the trafficking in Lasseter’s-reef leases never ceased.
In time the area searched became almost as wide as
the continent. Members of the original Lasseter’s-reef
concern reported the discovery of a bonanza in
Arnhem Land —so rich that a sober description of
the reef and specimens from “what is destined to be
one of Australia’s greatest goldfields” would “strain
the credulity of those who have not had the oppor-
tunity” of gazing at them in the rough. On such
representations 2s. shares in Arnhem Land Gold
soared to 18s. Blain, M.P., visited this eldorado and
gave an unvarnished account of it in the House. The
Bulletin had meanwhile published some remarks of
its own, and had received a writ for libel. “The reef”
failed to live up to the “150 z.” assays mentioned in the
prospectus; official reports on the show were blister-
ing, the writ was withdrawn and Arnhem Land Gold
vanished from the scene.
Nevertheless, the Lasseter’s-reef mania survived it.
Towards the end of last year shareholders in “Bis-
marck Range (Lucknow) Gold Exploration, N.L., and
its subsidiary and associated companies” were glad-
dened with the following printed information:
LASSETER’S REEF AREA.
The Bismarck Range Co. and its associates, Bis-
marck Deeps Co., Mount Marshall Co. and Lucknow
Gold, N.L., have acquired rights over one mile each
along the line of reef of this new discovery, close to the
border of Western and Central Australia... .The find
is regarded as one of the most important ever made in
the Commonwealth, and Bismarck Range Co. and its
associates are very fortunate in having these big
well-placed blocks.
“Border Gold Reefs, Ltd., North Border G.R.,
Ltd., South Border G.R., Ltd., and North and South
Extended Border G.R., Ltd.,” were also concerned.
But before the reef could be broken up and distri-
buted “titles” (“a first consideration of the dis-
coverers”) were required, and only the Westralian
Government could grant them, the “reef” being
planted in its territory. So the Westralian Govern-
ment, never enthusiastic about Lasseter or his “reef,’
now had to become interested. But before granting
“titles” it sent a Mines Department man, A. H. Ellis,
to have a look at the “most important discovery.”
Mr. Ellis was conducted to what had been
“claimed by an air party to be Lasseter’s lost reef,”
the pilot having “taken the position of an outcrop.”
And there was presented to his astonished gaze “just
a sandstone ridge in the middle of barren sandhills,
with no quartz or likely-looking mineral country for
100 miles.” On receiving his report, Mr. Munsie,
the Minister for Mines —himself a miner for many
years—annulled Border Gold Reefs’ reservation.
This ought to finish the Lasseter’s-reef business.
But the chances are that it won’t, unless the Com-
monwealth and State Governments take other action.
Parties got up like Cockney tourists are still out look-
ing for the .“reef,” and accounts of Lasseter and his
vision splendid have reached London. This makes it
probable that real Cockney tourists will put in an
appearance presently. It would be a kindness to the
mugs of Cockaigne, and also to our own aborigines,
whose lives are made miserable by the intrusions of
alleged prospectors who drink their scanty supplies
of water and kill their game and endanger their lives
by blazing away in all directions, to make it known
through Australia House that there is no real proof
that Lasseter ever saw a reef worth a row of pins.
“THE OTTAWA SPIRIT.”
At Ottawa on August 20, 1932, Stanley Melbourne
Bruce and Henry Gullett signed on behalf of the
Commonwealth a trade agreement with the United
Kingdom. Other Dominions signed other trade agree-
ments with Father Bull. India, a party to one, has
given the requisite six months’ notice of intention
to terminate it, and similar action is being considered
in Canada. According to the “Times Trade and
Engineering,”
Canadian industrialists see on the one hand the
possibility that, with respect to some Canadian pro-
ducts, the privilege of duty-free entry to the British
market may be withdrawn or restricted by quotas or
otherwise, and, on the other hand, the prospect that
the British Government will press for further reductions
in the British preferential schedule of the Canadian
customs tariff.
Australia, as a result of Ottawa obligations, as
the Canberra Government interprets them, has drifted
into a condition where its overseas trade position is
disturbing. Its markets in foreign countries are
shrinking, and dependence on the British market alone
has been unfortunate for many of those who grow
things for export. The situation is not improved by a
deliberate denial of information on the ground—as
suggested in Sydney last week by one of the Ministers,
Mr. Thorby —that the people are not entitled to it.
Instead of getting precise facts, the people are fobbed
off with clumsy propaganda.
Largely because of our tariff concessions to
Britain (imports from U.S.A. are also higher) we
have during the last couple of years seen our external
income more than swallowed up by the cost of im-
ports, interest, etc. One very awkward local result
has been a restriction of bank overdrafts ; of recent
weeks people who were granted accommodation even
in the depth of the depression have been refused it,
though they offered precisely the same security.
It was by virtue of the Ottawa contract that the
duty on British cement was reduced by half (the
Government wanted to remove it altogether) and the
duties on motor tyres and pottery (to quote outstand-
ing cases) were drastically cut. The agreement permits
no increase of duties on British goods. It practically
demands reductions ; except in some specified cases
the margin of preference granted over foreign goods
may in no instance “be anplied so as to result in a
rate of duty exceeding 75 p.c. ad val.” on imports
from the U.K.
Australia, for its part, has been granted prefer-
ences on certain of its products in the U.K. market.
They have been of considerable assistance to some
industries concerned, but, taken together, they have
not resulted in an improved, or even a main-
tained, balance of trade. On the whole, we have
gained only percentage preferences from Britain, and
Britain has benefited by getting commodities like
sugar, butter, apples and pears at less than the prices
paid by the Australian consumer. And Britain is to
benefit still more, inasmuch as virtual prohibitions
have been placed by our Government on important
Japanese and U.S.A. goods. This is rather more than
fair to Father Bull, especially as we stand to lose valu-
able export markets by the Government’s vicarious
generosity, which took the victims and the British
Government alike by surprise.
According to Board of Trade figures, volume of
industrial production in Britain during the March
quarter was the greatest ever recorded. Output of
textiles was the biggest since 1928. And the Empire
took the largest share of the increased exports.
In 1932, before the Ottawa agreements began to
operate, imports by Britain from signatory Dominions
were valued at £177,000,000 sterling. They were valued
at £207,400,000 in 1935, up £30,000,000. Visible
exports to those countries rose from £100,800,000 to
£138,500,000, up £38,000,000. On balance, Father
Bull was thus £8,000,000 better off in 1935. And into
the total of the account must be brought invisible
exports, such as interest, dividends and shipping
charges, which, taking Australia alone, amount to the
best part of £30,000,000 sterling a year, and which
for several years now have given Australia an un-
favorable balance of payments with the world.
To see Britain and the rest of the Empire pros-
perous, and strong is the wish of every sensible Aus-
tralian. But let us not be misled by the humbug
of politicians who are not businessmen or by the
sales-talk of interested parties. Each variety of
chin-music is very different from the straight, plain
language which Australia used to get from Robert
Gibson, and which was so heartening and helpful in
the crisis of 1931-32. In his arrangements with
foreign countries which compete with Australia,
Father Bull has shown very plainly that he puts his
own interests first. He would not dream of endan-
gering any of his important industries for the sake of
any distressed Australian section. It is an example
that Australia must follow, and if the Ottawa Agree-
ment and “the Ottawa spirit” prevent it, Australia—
with, of course, due observance of forms—must rid
itself of both.
A KNOTTY PROBLEM.
A fisherman’s bend is a kind of knot which, as
every sailor or Boy Scout knows, is very difficult to
get out of, and those who were responsible for naming
that slice of land near the mouth of Melbourne’s
Yarra were strangely prophetic.
Comprising just over a square mile of flat, ugly
reclaimed land. Fisherman’s Bend was set aside in
1889 “for river and port requirements.’’
Portion of it has been handed over to the Harbor
Trust, and that portion has been sufficient to meet all
“river and port requirements” that can be anticipated
— i.e., as far as ships “which venture forth upon the
sea” are concerned. Ports for ships which venture
forth into the air are a comparatively new idea which
has arisen since Federation, and therefore cannot expect
much support from a State Government which, for
all its hard work and heavy programme, is in many
things pre-war, and Boer War at that.
That Australia is entering upon an era of great
air development cannot be disputed. Already Mel-
bourne has daily services to and from Adelaide,
Sydney and Tasmania, as well as several country
centres, and it is impossible to set limits to the
progress that may be made within the next few years.
It is indisputable also (1) that Melbourne needs
a modern airport, (2) that Essendon is unsuitable and
(3) that Fisherman’s Bend is suitable in every respect.
The attitude of the parties interested is:
(!) Port Melbourne Council, in whose municipality
the land lies, doesn’t want the airport. It wants a
garden suburb and factories.
(2) Melbourne City Council wants the airport, but
has no jurisdiction over the land.
(3) Victorian Government apparently wants the air-
port, but wants it built by the Commonwealth, and
looks for cash for the site.
(4) Commonwealth Government wants the airport
built, but isn’t prepared to be out of pocket over it.
The two councils don’t really matter. The real
difficulty is between the Dunstan Government and the
Commonwealth.
If this were a country possessing one supreme
authority there would be no difficulty at all. The sole
Government would simply appropriate the site (which
it held for the Crown) for an airport.
There being in this dispute two Governments,
each representing the Crown, one, in effect, says to
the other: “If his Majesty wants this land his Majesty
must pay his Majesty so much for it.”
To which the other replies: “His Majesty is not
prepared to buy the land from his Majesty, but, if his
Majesty will supply the land to his Majesty, his
Majesty will spend a large sum developing it; but,
of course, his Majesty will have to spend some money
also, as his Majesty has already gone to considerable
expense equipping an airport for his Majesty.”
As the Federal Government controls civil avia-
tion, and the new airport would be built primarily
for the benefit of Melbourne and Victoria, it would
seem an equitable arrangement for Victoria to supply
the land and the Commonwealth to build the airport.
In the present deadlock there are faults on both
sides. Mr. Dunstan, with his eye on the possible cash
value of the estate, refuses to give it up, and the
Federal Government, which spends money so readily
on royal commissions and foreign jaunts, but so
tardily on radio beacons and things of greater im-
portance, is prepared to help but not to go the whole
hog.
Leaving moral considerations out of the question,
Mr. Dunstan is quite within his legal rights (under our
peculiar Constitution) in asking his price for Fisher-
men’s Bend —although N. S. Wales received no pay-
ment for the 940 square miles transferred to the
Commonwealth as Federal Capital Territory, nor S.A.
for the 523,620 square miles of Northern Territory.
But the Commonwealth has a duty to perform,
and should perform it irrespective of the actions of
provincial Governments with huckster minds. The
greater facilities that an up-to-date and convenient
airport would provide would give an additional fillip
lo civil aviation (which, incidentally, would be a far
greater factor in national defence than peaked caps
and Grenadier Guard uniforms), and, when all inter-
capital mails are carried by air, saving of time between
airport and city will be just as important as speed
between airport and airport.
Definite Commonwealth action is needed instead
of gallery-play and window-dressing.
A long-term lease would ensure the early
establishment of the port, while the door would still be
open for a revision of the terms at some future date.
Later Governments may not be so inclined as
Mr. Dunstan’s to take the cash and let the credit go.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The ’Berra Boys’ New Game.
Commonwealth Ministers and U.A.P. newspapers
seem fated to contradict themselves or supply others
with materials for contradiction when they try to
defend the Whiskard-Gullett tariff, Assistant-Minister
Thorby had the gall to assert in Sydney that only
“a small section” of woolgrowers was objecting to “the
tariff alteration.” Hitherto this gentleman has received
political backing from the N. S. Wales Graziers’ Asso-
ciation. Two days after his outrageous assertion was
published the general council of that association
“unanimously” endorsed “the action taken by our
president, the president of the Graziers’ Federal
Council and the chairman of the Australian Wool-
growers’ Council” ; and what that' “action” has been
Mr. Thorby knows too well.
In the issue of “S. M. Herald” in which the
Graziers’ resolution was published, it was asserted in
an editorial that the dispute with Japan had been
developing over a long period; “for more than a
year” Ministers “endeavored to arrive at a friendly
agreement.” On another page a Manchester Chamber
of Commerce man is reported as saying that “the
promptness with which the Commonwealth Govern-
ment acted on our representations is most gratifying” ;
and it is common knowledge that “our representa-
tions” were made only a few months ago by a
delegation from Manchester.
On still another page there was a priceless letter
from Aucher, Ltd., “agents for a large Manchester
textile house, and also importers of Japanese textiles.”
Condensed, it reads as follows;
At 9 a.m. on May 23 new prohibitive duties were
imposed on Japanese textiles, and British textiles were
given additional preference by lowering the duty.
On June 1 our principals in Manchester, replying
to an offer for textiles, cabled “Price advanced” ; on
June 18, “Market advancing, prices very firm”; on
June 30, “Prices very firm, market advancing”; on
July 6, “Advance all prices 5 p.c., market very firm,
still rising.”
On July 6 cotton, good LI.S.A. middling, spot, fell
from 7.18 d. per pound to 6.65 d. per pound.
So much for the gratitude of Manchester. The
gratitude of Yorkshire for the prospective removal
of a competitor was to have been shown by main-
taining wool prices at April figures— at least, this
was told to our Mr. Stevens, who has been trailing
his leg through North of England cities. At the
London wool sales on July 7, bales from all the
mainland States being offered, there was a general
fall of 5 p.c.
Meanwhile, concerned as they naturally are, land
men are getting grins and the diplomatic body good
laughs out of the clumsy attempts of Ministers to
play a game which they have hitherto left to John
Bull. Mr. Gullett complained bitterly “of the indefi-
niteness of the Japanese restrictions,” describing this
“indefiniteness” as “far more paralysing in its effect on
Australian trade than would be the effect of a frank
announcement by the Japanese Government.” This
was naive enough, but it was matched by the Prime
Minister in closing an announcement that a long list of
Japanese goods was to be placed on the prohibited list.
I now make two offers to Japan: (1) Both dis-
criminatory ordinances should be temporarily suspended
and negotiations immediately resumed. If the Japanese
Government is unable to assent, (2) both ordinances to
operate while we negotiate. Very little time should
suffice for the negotiations.
Even the British High Commissioner, who has
got everything he wanted from this Government, must
chuckle at the spectacle of Joe, Harry and George
(George is External Affairs) trying to be Cannings
and Talleyrands.
The Pace Is a Cracker.
Commonwealth expenditure for the year just closed
was the greatest on record, except for the 1930-31
year, when there was a deficit of nearly £11,000,000.
Revenue was much the largest in Federal history,
exceeding last year’s peak by £6,000,000 and the
Government’s own estimate by £5,000,000.
Some typical Budget years;
Revenue. Expenditure.
1925-26 £68,493,000 £71,316,000
1928-29 73,062,000 75,421,000
1930-31 68,180,000 78,938,000
1932-33 72,428,000 69,044,000
1934- 76,252,000 75,541,000
1935- 82,203,229 78,640,690
The surplus for 1935-36, £3,562,539, is the highest
yet. This notwithstanding that £2,750,000 of Com-
monwealth tax-revenue (also the highest yet) was
presented to State Governments with “disabilities,”
two of which have produced credit balances aggre-
gating £331,800, which could have been doubled or
trebled.
The Lyons Government claims to have “remitted”
millions in taxation, but its “remissions” have involved
no revenue sacrifice ; total yield has increased. Actu-
ally it has taken about £10,000,000 more from the
people’s pockets than was required to finance expen-
diture, though expenditure mounted. There may be
more remissions in the coming Budget—perhaps 1 p.c.
off sales tax and something off primage. But next
year is an election-year. Mr. Curtin is already in
the vote-market with a promise of massively increased
expenditure on “social services,” and it is unlikely
that the crowd in office will let him have the bidding
to himself.
Mackay’s Harbor.
Mackay (N.Q.) is wondering when its new artificial
harbor will be finished. Two thousand two hundred
feet of the southern breakwater was to have seen
completion during the first year, but after 20 months
only 1000 feet of it is in place.
To complete the work in the contract time of
five years, 2100 tons of stone is needed for every
working day. The average up to April was 830 tons,
and is now only 1310 tons in spite of exceptional
effort. The contractor asserts that if his original pro-
gramme had been followed the work would now be
well ahead of schedule. The supervising engineer
recommends cancellation of the contract.
Contract price, as finally adjusted, was £766,000 ;
the Harbor Board’s present estimate is something
under £1,000,000. Stone from Mt, Bassett, estimated
by the contractor at 3s. 9d. per ton, is considered by
the Harbor Board to cost up to Bs. The Government
is guaranteeing £250,000, so there is a fair margin on
which to come and go. There is a move to obtain
the advice of Dr. Bradfield as to what is best to be
done.
It all merely repeats the histories of squabbling,
political juggling and general parochialism which
attended the construction of Townsville's artificial
harbor and the futile attempt to link Rockhampton
with deep water. With Bowen's magnificent natural
deep-water shelter only 116 rail miles to the north
Mackay Harbor is totally unnecessary. Half the
money do be sunk in it would, if expended on rail,
road and wharf improvements at Bowen, have pro-
vided immeasurably better port facilities for Mackay's
products. But neither the parish pump nor the vote-
machine would have benelited.
Our Masters at Canberra,
Does anyone ever read Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen
Points now? The first Point was:
Open covenants openly arrived at, after which there
shall be no private international understanding of any
kind, but diplomacy shall always proceed frankly and
in the public view.
How far some Australian politicians have departed
from that aspiration, even in matters affecting the
British Commonwealth of Nations only, has been
made startlingly plain of recent months. These poli-
ticians have become so arrogantly intolerant, as well
as secretive, that even the right of Australians to
criticise proceedings which affect every Australian
is objected to.
Defending the renewal of Britain’s butter-eggs-
and-bacon agreement with Denmark, which Premier
Forgan Smith has condemned, Federal Minister
Thorby, speaking in Sydney, had the effrontery to
“regret that any persons should be anxious to criticise
matters of this description.” The chaos into which
his Government has plunged the greatest Australian
industry was another of these “matters”; —-
The Federal Government is being criticised by a
small section of woolgrowers about the recent tariff
alteration. There are very few people able to criticise
the international activities of either the U.K. or the
Australian Government. It is impossible to make avail-
able all the information on such subjects.
In other words, it is impossible to furnish the people
with full knowledge of their own most important
affairs. The people must do without that knowledge
and repose a blind faith in the infinite wisdom
of their rulers. And Woodrow Wilson thought he
was making the world “safe for democracy”!
A Remedy for Holdups.
The question of the inadequacy of the pro lection given
to clerks and others carrying large sums of money
to and from banks came up again at the inquest into
the death of the Victorian Titles Office employee who
was shot dead while acting as escort to a money
messenger.
Of late years there has been a marked increase
in the number of holdups, and in several cases it has
seemed that had adequate precautions been taken the
crimes might have been prevented. Government
departments, through the regularity of their routine,
are particularly tempting prey to bandits.
In the Titles-Office case the clerk in charge of
the money (about £1750) was a lad of 17, and his
escort was not carrying a gun. A police escort was
customary some years ago; the deputy-collector
“thought it had been abandoned for economy reasons.”
If this is so it has proved a rather expensive economy,
costing £1750 and a man’s life.
A police escort costs little, and is an effective
safeguard—the uniform does the trick. Some of
the Melbourne shipping companies, which through the
casual nature of their work have often to pay wharf-
and coal-workers many times during the week, invari-
ably obtain a constable to accompany the pay-clerks
to the wharf, and on no occasion has there been an
attempt at a holdup.
It has been suggested that the Victorian Govern-
ment should acquire an armored car which could
be utilised by all departments for banking purposes.
Such cars are used by banks. The situation may not
warrant the purchase of such a vehicle, but there is
no reason why Government departments should not
make use of police escorts, while there is every reason
for seeing that lads are not entrusted with the respon-
sibility of taking large sums of money through the
streets. This applies also to private firms, whose pay-
clerks are in many cases “escorted” by lads carrying
revolvers which they have never fired and don’t
know how to fire.
Mr. Dash Is Disappointed.
Financial results of Queensland transport-strangu-
lation efforts for the 1935-36 financial year were
disappointing.
The anticipated haul for registrations was £74,000.
In spite of an increase of over 7000 total vehicles
registered, only £61,102 was wrung out of road-users.
„ Nor did the anticipated improvement occur in rail-
way revenue. Estimates for 1935-36 allowed for a
drop of nearly £297,000 on account of loss of
“drought traffic” ; actually it was £353,150 less than
the previous year, notwithstanding strenuous effort
in forcing rail transport of all material on to contrac-
tors for public works.
It really looks as if “transport regulation” in the
Dash style has stirred up more public and political
trouble than its money-value is worth.
A Quick Way to Get a Headache.
Point is given to the late Auditor-General’s complaints
about the method of presenting Commonwealth
accounts by the printed statement of receipts and
expenditure for the financial year to June 30 issued
by the Treasury.
No figures giving total expenditure and total
revenue are shown. This all-important information
can be obtained only by adding up five sets of figures
in each case. No wonder Mr. Cerutty harped on the
absurdity of these Treasury methods. He recalled that
the Bank of England had had to ask the London
office of the Auditor-General to explain the Com-
monwealth accounts, because of the varying figures
published by the Statistician, the Treasury and the
Auditor-General.
To issue a Budget statement without showing total
expenditure and revenue seems to be carrying bureau-
cratic indifference to public convenience to extreme
lengths.
A laborious dissection of the figures shows that
expenditure was £78,640,690 and revenue £82,203,229,
giving a nominal surplus of £3,562,539. “Nominal,”
because expenditure exceeded the estimate by
£1,500,000, and but for this excess expenditure the
surplus would have been that much greater. Accord-
ing to Mr. Cerutty Treasury figures are “distorted”
and "misleading” because, “in addition to the published
surplus, many millions are available to the Treasury
for expenditure.” He added in his last report: “When
accounts are thus manipulated so as to misrepresent
the true position, they can only be described as mis-
leading—indeed a much stronger word might fairly
be used.... I have appealed for the presentation of
these accounts in a form simple, accurate and not
misleading.”
On the tenth of each month the Treasury issues
returns of expenditure and revenue. At the close of
the financial year it puts out a document purporting
to be a statement of the Budget position which would
drive to desperation any person not a chartered
accountant seeking information about Commonwealth
accounts.
Abandoning the Riverina.
The Riverina, although within the borders of N. S.
Wales, is nearer to Melbourne than to Sydney: Most
of its trade is with Melbourne,, and by virtue of an
agreement with the Sydney Government sft. Sin, rail-
ways linking the Riverina with Victorian Murray
towns are operated by the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment.
The Government at Melbourne, in stating its
road-transport policy, said it would not interfere with
licenses issued prior to 1933. Its Transport Board
has nevertheless announced the cancellation of all
Riverina licenses from July 29.
Protests that this amounts to breaking the
Government’s word have produced the reply that the
Government’s promise applied only to hauliers operat-
ing in Victoria and not to those in the Riverina, who
“are in a position different from that of transport
operators in Victoria.”
Wherein the difference lies is not clear. Both
the Riverina hauliers and those operating solely within
Victoria are at present licensed under the Transport
Regulation Act, 1932. They pay the same license
lees and are subject to the same regulations and
conditions.
There is one possible difference, but it is unlikely
that the board or the Government has it in mind:
the Victorian Government may have no power to
exercise authority over the Riverina hauliers. In
which case its action is a definite breach of Section 92
of the Constitution —the much-quoted and much-
debated provision which says that
Trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean naviga-
tion, shall be absolutely free.
In any case, it is short-sighted policy to antagonise
people whose goodwill Victoria has spent years in
cultivating.
It is apparently assumed that on the cancellation
of hauliers’ licenses all the carrying trade will revert
to the Victorian railways. This is far from likely ; if
the feeling displayed at protest meetings throughout
the Riverina is any guide, the bulk of the trade will
be transferred to the N. S. Wales railways. In other
words, Riverina people will send their produce to
and obtain their supplies from Sydney.
If the decision of the board is allowed to take
effect on July 29, 43 hauliers with 150 motor vehicles
will be forced out of a business which is giving the
people of the Riverina a service the railways are
unable to offer.
A large number of drivers, loaders and other
employees will be thrown out of work, and in addi-
tion Melbourne business houses will lose the bulk of
the valuable Riverina trade. Yet the Victorian rail-
ways, for whose benefit the licenses are being revoked,
will be none the better off.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED with WIMBLE’S INKS"
“Mulga Jim”: Cargo-broaching is not
confined to the high seas. A dance was
announced in our country hall, the profits
for the benefit of the football club. A
barrel of beer (and bring your own mug)
was the incentive for increased ticket-sales.
But there are always some coves who
can’t be gentlemen on these occasions ;
the stuff was lapped up before the dance
was really into its stride. At the next dance
the committee decided there would be no
more of this unfair business ; the barrel
was placed on the stage, instead of in the
ante-room. The joy was unconfined and
the hall was getting a bit stuffy, when
the M.C. thought of the remark of the
Governor of South Carolina. He got to
business, but it was too late. A man-
hole under the stage, an auger and bit
nd a couple of empty petrol tins had
left only a few pints.
❖ * * ❖
“Celt”: “Sixenate’s” remarks on gaol
literature remind me that in Goulburn
Reformatory (for first offenders) Edgar
Wallace “thrillers” are barred, the reason
given being that they might teach the
young prisoner new tricks. Illogically
enough, Conan Doyle, William Le
Queux and other authors to whom
the same objection might apply are
admissible. As a gaol librarian, I
was astonished to discover that, for gen-
eral popularity, the books of P. G. Wode-
house came an easy first.
-I- ; ! : : 1 :
“Jobber”: “S. M. Herald” slipped
badly the other morning when she told
her readers that the use of crests was
coming into fashion, and went on to
record that some mam’selle had recently
arrived from M.L. wearing a ring en-
graved with the family crest and motto.
If the venerable College of Heralds heard
this it would probably have a fit. It is
not permissible, under the laws of
heraldry, for any female to sport the
family crest and motto. All that the
lady is permitted is the use of the coat-
of-arms —if there is one —engraved in a
lozenge. The crest and motto are strictly
the prerogative of the male members of
the family.
* * * *
“L. Lizard”: The artist who depicted
the workman behind an anvil in the
Commonwealth 10s. note is either not
very observant or he failed to obtain ex-
pert advice regarding the position of the
operator. No blacksmith works in this
manner; he stands with the beakhorn
of the anvil at his left hand. I should
know, after 50 years at the forge.
“Spare Phidias”: Auckland (M.L.) is
in the throes of a wordy war between
the followers of pure art and the pur-
suers of the other sort. One W. Elliott
left a large sum for memorial gates to
the Domain. Sculptor R. Gross has pro-
duced a fine bit of work, the main item
of which is a shot-putter in the nude.
A storm of fury from the wowser ele-
ment nearly blew the memorial over, and
it is being guarded by police since
threats of mutilation at least have been
made. Milder is a proposal that the
statue be garbed in athletic shorts and
singlet. More picturesque is the sugges-
tion of “a leading Scotsman” that,
as putting the weight is one of the
favorite Scottish sports, it should
be endowed with a kilt and a glengarry
cap! Arguing on those lines it may be
pointed out that the pastime was also
a favorite of the ancient Greeks and that
their athletes wore the costume Gross
has reproduced in his statue —the bare
pelt.
* t\i :Jc *
“King's Inns”: The police were quite
in order in taking “Hobo’s” fingerprints
(B. 1/7/’36). The N.S.W. law reads:
When a person is in lawful custody for
any offence punishable on indictment or
summary conviction, the officer in charge
of the police at the station where he is in
custody may take, or cause to be taken,
all such particulars as may be deemed neces-
sary for the identification of such person,
including his photograph and fingerprints.
Trespass on the railways is more than a
breach of a local by-law ; it is an offence
against the Government Railways Act,
for which a conviction is recorded. In
England, of course, no one may be finger-
printed without his own consent, except
in cases of adults sent to prison for a
specified period.
“A birthday call for Mrs. Jonah. Follow the string and you'll get a
surprise from your dear son-in-law."
“Sixenate”: It may be that the police
are overzealous in collecting fingerprints ;
even husbands who have failed in their
matrimonial responsibilities, although
they are merely debtors, are fingerprinted
if arrested for non-payment of their
maintenance orders. A certain stigma
may attach to it; on the other hand,
there have been cases where it has proved
of positive benefit to the printee. Not
long since a man claiming to be a bene-
ficiary under the will of a deceased rela-
tive admitted that for personal reasons
he had used a name not rightfully his
own for 17 years. His claim having been
contested, he called for corroboration
from fingerprints taken by the police 18
years before, when he had been im-
prisoned for embezzlement. Those
fingerprints were worth £3OOO to him.
From the office-boy’s great-uncle:
From the back of The Bulletin’s head office,
which extends from George-street to Hamilton-
street, Sydney can now get glimpses of its
old Tank Stream. Only a few square feet
of it certainly, but it’s the Tank Stream
right enough. Workmen demolishing a build-
ing on the opposite side of Hamilton-street,
with a Pitt-street frontage, uncovered the
storied Stream, and others are groping in its
muddy water as I write. A pump has been
requisitioned, and 14 great ironbark piles, as
sound as when they were sunk long ago, have
been dug up. It was at first thought that the
piles were part of a wooden bridge which did
service till 1803 —the year in which England
and Napoleonic France were at peace for a
few months —but local historian C. H. Bertie
is of opinion that they were part of the
foundations of the building just demolished.
Anyway, the Tank Stream flowed down what
is now Hamilton-street, and the land on
which the present Bulletin building stands
(it used to be Keep, McPherson’s) was
described in the old title as bounded on the
east by the stone wall on the bank of the
Tank Stream. Lower down George-street,
underneath Nock and Kirby’s, a flight of stone
steps leading down to the Tank Stream was
unearthed when the firm was rebuilding years
ago.
* * * *
“Selma”: The “immortality-immoral-
ity” typographical trouble seems never-
ending. It cropped up in our local rag
the other day after a public-spirited citi-
zen had presented half a dozen statues,
some of them frankly hit with the nudist
craze, to our little park. Our only paper
was deeply appreciative, and the editor
wrote a leader speaking finely of the
effect they would have on the village as
showing the immortality of art. At least,
that’s what he meant to say ; the omis-
sion of the “t” started an uproar that
drew into it the donor, the local M.P.
and the bishop.
jjc ‘ j|j $ ¥
“General Prac.”: I wonder whether
my colleague “Kwakprak” speaks by the
card in citing a barman’s job as “the
most dangerous of all occupations” (B.
1/7/’36). Some insurance companies
don’t think so. A barman’s —or a publi-
can's —policy commonly carries a three-
year “loading,” but that little sock in
the eye dates back to the old days when
Bung and his helpers were expected to
have a quick one with any patron who
felt like shouting. To-day, when the
business of selling beer is coldly competi-
tive, publicans and barmen are apt to
be sober men with Rechabitish views
about liquor and a due regard for
their livers and kidneys. For all-round
unpopularity in the insurance world,
aviators win in a canter. They are
charged an extra five guineas per cent.
Passengers by air, too, are subject to
prohibitions. Take, say, a dozen flights
per annum by some established airline,
and no life office will growl. Get killed
while stunting with some odd pilot and
your policy is likely to become void.
Quite naturally, insurance officials are
shy of people who handle temperamental
explosives and certain dangerous drugs
and paints, or who go on luxury cruises
in submarines. Divers are also regarded
as bad risks, though for some reason
naval diving seems, on the figures, to be
much safer than that associated with the
mercantile marine.
“Currency Lad”: What do we know
of Australia who only Pitt-street know?
Most folk think of Gosford (N.S.W.) as
notable only for its oysters and scooter
races. London “Everybody’s Weekly”
writes of it as “a doomed city,” once
the equivalent of Miami and Catalina
Island rolled into one, where millionaires
fished for swordfish by day, and by night
gloried and drank deep in “palatial
hotels.” The curse, it seems, fell upon
this modern Capua when a fishing party
slew an albatross. Fishing parties were
drowned or otherwise bumped off, and
the millionaires fled, until now Gosford
is “just an ordinary fishing village again”
waiting for the next rap on the chin.
Every day an albatross flies over (he
ruins of the palatial hotels, presumably
on a tour of inspection to see the hoodoo
is working properly, while Gosford
cowers in shuddering horror.
“Skribne” chronicles a new sporting
stunt:
Thirty-nine kids’ toys, propelled by pushing
with one leg, pulled both legs of 15,000-odd
people who witnessed the “scooter race” from
Terrigal to Gosford (N.S.W.) on Sunday, July
s—there5 —there were 5000 at the finishing line. The
course, seven and a half miles of hilly road,
was covered by S. Wood, of Turramurra, in 35
minutes; he received for reward just on a
pound a minute. The time was broadcast from
a mike, set up on a shop verandah, as being
three seconds inside the world’s scooter
record. The local ambulance and 50 per cent,
of the district police—there are but four —
followed the competitors. At 12.30 p.m. Terri-
gal looked like summer. At 12.45 p.m. the
exodus was nigh complete, and a local tyke
resumed his winter sleep in the middle of the
road, his regular pitch, only to be run over
by a strange motorist. A lady scootist left
the road at Erina and cooled off in the famous
creek of that name. A visiting car turned
over a bank, another settled in soft soil.. An
81-year-old competitor did six feet of the
course. Among the spectators were two movie
outfits from Sydney, a broadcasting team, a
string of journalists, the “S.M.H.” photo-
grapher, about 15 bookies and yours truly.
* * * *
“Nikko”; Asphalt and modern travel-
ling facilities probably have most to do
with the disappearance of the corner
bootblack (B. 8/7/’36). In the days
when roads became muddy and every-
body walked about the city it was neces-
sary to have a shoeshine at intervals.
One well-known Sydney legal light re-
lates that he used to walk to the ferry at
Neutral Bay along a tea-tree track, now
a popular street, and on arrival at the
Quay never felt fit to walk up Pitt-street
without a visit to the bootblack. His
descendants step into a car at their gate
and out at the office door.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Time shatters many illusions.
Two-and-thirty years ago Japanese and
Russian armies were fighting for pos-
session of Korea, “the Hermit Kingdom,”
and newspapers were publishing quaint
descriptions of the natives of that
Western Pacific cockpit. They were as
queer in their ways as the Tibetans, it
seemed; a furtive, frightened people
with manners and habits of feudal sim-
plicity and no political ambitions ex-
cept to be left alone. The male Koreans
were odd little chaps with
straggling beards; the women
were too shy to be photographed.
Now I read that there has been a
shindy in Peiping which has be-
come a diplomatic incident: a
Japanese soldier was killed in a
brawl; two British “Jacks” were
blamed, and the most important
witnesses in the case were
“Korean barmaids.” So the Her-
mit Kingdom has become so
modern that it exports barmaids!
“Lizard Passage”: It isn’t only the
escaped animals which make life lively
on a ship carrying a menagerie (B.
8/7/’36). Writer once came down from
B.N.G. in the old Airlie, which was
loaded to the Plimsoll with Fitzgerald's
circus. On one side the alleyway on
the for’ard well deck was lined with
assorted elephants who ran the rule over
everyone trying to pass between the
hatches and their cabins, some mis-
guided ass early in the voyage from
Malaya having taught them to expect
apples. The other accommodated three
or four Malayan bears of vile manners
and infernal tempers who accounted for
the trouser legs of most who attempted
to pass them. Monkeys of varying
degrees of beastliness were everywhere,
and the only gentleman of the lot was
a big python in a wire-netted box who
slept all the trip.
“Exdig”: Sydney Repat. has been get-
ting tangled in the records of two Dig-
gers. Not altogether unnaturally, for
both were named L. Thompson, the regi-
mental number of each began with
“29,” and they lived in the same block
of flats —at Glebe. The main difference,
apart from their battalions, was that one
had lost an eye, and this finally cleared
up the confusion. Such coincidences
were not uncommon. I recall two A.LF.
men who bore the unusual name of
Smirk —one was David and the other
Daniel. Both had exactly the same regi-
mental number, although one was an
infantryman and the other belonged to
the artillery. My encounter with this
pair occurred after the war, when I was
doing some clerical work for the A.LF.
David Smirk, who had put in a solid
four years’ service, and who complained
that he had had too few holidays from
the line, wrote a bitter letter about hav-
ing been treated at Weymouth as a
prisoner of war, just repatriated from
Germany. The p.o.w. turned out to be
Daniel.
AN ALLITERATIVE EFFORT.
‘•.Pullovers—warranted to wear well and give the
weightless warmth you want.” —Sydney drapery nd.
I’faith, it makes a fellow feel
That lightly lingering elation
Attending all adroit appeal
To apposite alliteration.
Fondly you fit it round your form
As fairy-fashioned as a feather;
Withal it keeps the wearer warm,
As only wool in wintry weather.
It’s scheduled shapely, strong and sure;
Its dubious demise is dateless; .
It leaves no loop for leather’s lure
In that it’s wonderfully weightless.
It’s labelled just as long to last
As prayers a priest or proofs a printer;
It blocks the biting Boreal blast
From wights who wish for warmth in winter.
It’s warranted to wear as well
As all the furs and frills and frockings
That happy haberdashers sell,
From satin skirts to silken stockings.
For all the price on pelts that’s set,
Possum and platypus together
Will never whack the warmth you get
From weightless wool in wintry weather.
These puffs that papers’ pages pad
Are mostly sombre, stiff and solemn,
But here’s an aptly artful ad.
To con in a commercial column.
And o’er my paunch I’ll pray to pull,
Ere sprightly spring sets ice a-splinter,
That welcome width of woven wool
Which one is wont to want in winter.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ymar”: One of our local bright
young things had been quietly—and a
trifle hurriedly-married. Mrs. Blank,
who saw her daughter talking to the
bride, seized the chance to improve the
occasion. “That,” she declared vir-
tuously as the newly-wed moved on,
“is what happens to girls that use lip-
stick and wear slacks!”
* * * Jjt
“Uncle, M.D.”: A major-general from
Holland, visiting Australia, recently an-
nounced in several languages his detesta-
tion of hay fever. From May 15 to the
end of July in every year, he said,
the abominable complaint converted him
into a sort of Flying Dutchman, unable
to remain ashore unless in torment. He
explained that the whole trouble was
due to the pollen of certain grasses, but
apparently the Dutch medical profession
—and there is no better-trained one in
the world-had not succeeded in convinc-
ing him that all he needs to become a
hay-fever-proof warrior is a course of
treatment with vaccines made from those
particular pollens. Only last week my
tailor was recalling the annual miseries
he used to suffer before 1 suggested that
he get his doctor to try some of the Com-
monwealth Laboratories’ products of the
kind. That was 10 years ago, and he has
not had a bout since.
“Kali”: Considerate thieves (B.
1/7,/’36)? When one such recently went
through the dozen handbags stowed in
the bedroom by guests at a Mosman
musicale he left a small coin in each,
presumably for the tram-fare home.
•I* -I-
“R.H.P.”: Here is another bouquet
for Hobart’s tramway system. When
the trams are crowded and the con-
ductor is upstairs collecting fares (a slow
job at peak periods) he loses all touch
with the driver and the human cargo on
the lower deck. It is then that collective
security comes into its own. Some
obliging passenger steps into the breach,
and, assuming temporary control till the
conductor returns, signals to the driver
by bell cord, in the best professional
manner, when to stop and restart. Occa-
sionally an irascible businessman may
get carried a couple of stops past his
corner, but trifles like that don’t worry
us in Hobart.
“Mish Bish”: An inquiry in the Ser-
vice Column (B. 8/7/’36) about the re-
ligion of persons in gaol impels me to
point out that the choice of a creed
in such circumstances is seldom dictated
by upbringing, much less by honest con-
viction. Sunday services in gaol are
looked upon as a welcome relief in the
monotony of gaol life, and there is
naturally a preference for the faith which
has the longest Sunday service when the
alternative is being locked into one’s
cell. So, if the R.C. service lasts longer
than the C. of E., there will be more
R.Cs., and vice versa. Music, hymn-
singing, etc., are other attractions that
may account for the fact that certain
sects have more adherents (on paper).
The fact that some padres are more
cheery than others also has its influence.
Hence figures supplied by officialdom are
a poor guide to the religious convictions
of prisoners, most of whom have none
at all.
“Hamer”: The faithful hound again.
A man who had temporarily parked his
car in Market-street, Sydney, found it
occupied by a big Alsatian which dis-
puted possession. A crowd gathered, and
various suggestions were advanced on the
"There is something very attractive about a nice
Warm fire."
best method of removing the dog. One
brilliant idea failed when the canine scorn-
fully refused a bribe of meat secured
from a handy smallgoods shop. The
advisability of shooting the animal was
being discussed when the owner arrived
with explanations.. The car had originally
been his, and the dog was used to riding
in and guarding it. When he had dis-
posed of it, he had parked his new car
not far away in the same street, and the
dog, seeing the old familiar conveyance,
had decided that his chief duty lay in
protecting that. The only person who
did not agree that the Alsatian was not
a fine, intelligent animal was the new
owner of the old car.
* * t' -k
“H.A.L.”; Two years ago a Dodge was
stolen from the garage of an Adelaide
business firm. The other day a dog
chased a rabbit into some low scrub 30
“ 'Ere, are you the bloke Wot pinched me bluebag?"
miles north of Bordertown ; a boy fol-
lowed —and found the car. The tyres
were still partly inflated, and the bat-
tery had enough juice in it to blow the
horn and light the headlights. The cause
for its abandonment was a jambed self-
starter. So high had the scrub grown
that a track had to be cut before the car
could be towed out.
“Conifer”; The cabled announcement
that a newly-discovered rabbit-destroying
virus is on the way to this country and is
to be “tried out” on some island, if its
harmlessness to native fauna can be
established, recalls that 30 years ago a
certain Dr. Dansyz tackled the same
problem with some similar micro-organ-
ism on Broughton Island. His laborious
experimenting came to nothing. The
stuff was deadly enough ; the trouble was
that its de-adliness was confined to certain
circumscribed conditions. Something
similar seems to be apprehended about
the new virus, myxomatosis cuniculi
claimed to be contagious but not in-
fectious, it is warranted to wipe out a
colony of rabbits in quick time, but
whether it would spread from one furry
community to another is a different
matter. After'all, if medical science
can’t exterminate a million or two of
closely-packed rats in a city like Sydney,
its chances of giving countless millions of
rabbits spread over a whole continent a
knock-out or even a serious setback
don’t look promising.
“Snooker”: It would be strange if the
League of Nations, representing so many
conflicting elements and races, should set
an example in decorum to lesser
assemblages, but some recent develop-
ments at Geneva are a trifle startling.
First of all a whole bunch of Italian
journalists is forcibly ejected from the
press gallery for an insulting demonstra-
tion ; a few days later a Nazi notable
from Danzig signalises his opinion of the
newspapermen by “thumbing his nose”
in their direction—and presumably
“spreading his fingers out,” like the sac-
ristan in “Nell Cook.” Even in this coun-
try, where unparliamentary gestures are
far from infrequent, I doubt if there is
any record of that childish form of de-
fiant insult being indulged in by a full-
grown legislator. The nearest I can recall
to it was after a bitter and hotly con-
tested Federal election on the Westralian
goldfields. The successful candidate was
hooted and threatened in the street after
the result had been announced, and the
upshot was a police-court case, in which
the accused pleaded extreme provoca-
tion for their misconduct. “What form
did it take?” asked the beak. “He poked
out his tongue at us,” declared one of
the culprits.
* * >l= *
“Ahoy”: The Finnish four-masted
barque Pamir has won the grain Derby
of 1936. She arrived at Queenstown
in 78 days from Port Victoria. None
of the ■ 17 ships can beat her time
now. First to reach England was the
Herzogin Cecilie, which ran aground on
the Devon coast. The Swedish barque
Abraham Rydberg was the second home ;
and she collided with the Koranton. The
Swedish barque C. B. Pedersen is still at
sea after 95 days out. The record race
occurred 15 years ago, when 36 vessels
competed. The French barque Amiral
Halgan swirled home to Bordeaux in 72
days. The Janna was the only one that
failed ; she went missing with all hands.
* * =i= *
“Ike Hollar”: The Bridge-street han-
som cab (B. 8/7 / ’36) is not the only one
in Sydney; there are even more vener-
able survivors from a past age to be
found in a four-wheeler that has a regu-
lar stand outside Strathfield station and a
Manly vehicle of the same sort drawn
by two white horses. One very smart
hansom was virtually kept going until
a few years ago by the patronage of a
Macquarie-street specialist. It was about
the same time I saw the end of one of
those old “kibs” a few years ago ; its
finish set me thinking of the historic
“one-horse shay.” A passing motor-
lorry hit the wheel, which broke ; falling
over, the decrepit vehicle literally dropped
to pieces.
* * * *
“Lavengro”: Bush publicans are not
usually regarded as easy marks, but the
experience of a Queensland Bung sug-
gests that there are exceptions. “Gipsies”
persuaded him to have his hand read.
Instead of the usual silver, they asked to
have their hands crossed with Bung’s
cashbox, which was done. They
departed in a car, saying they had left
luck in the box; examining it, Bung
found that they had extracted a fiver to
make room for it. At latest advices the
soothsayers were still being sought for.
* # * * *
“Centurion”: One of the outstanding
items of the Abyssinian war was the work
of Major Charteris and his Punjabis in
defending the British Legation at Addins
Ababa and rescuing the inmates of other
legations. As a reward he has been
appointed brevet-colonel, which is an
Irishman’s rise. He will draw no extra
pay and enjoy no extra privileges ; ex-
cept in uncommon circumstances the
rank carries no seniority. It seems a
paltry way of recognising a sterling
performance.
THE DEADLY SIN.
“Mrs. Booth-Olibborn said sh(> had seen tens
of thousands of young girls go to the Devil through
dancing and had known too many young men who,
when asked what had caused their downfall, had
invariably replied ‘dancing.’ ”
Beware, my son, of the insidious flagon
If in this world of ours your way you cl
make!
The flowing bowl will nip you like a dragon
The foaming pot will sting you like a sna
Safer by far upon the water-waggon
Your season ticket and your seat to ta
And of all lures to flaming youth that call
Beware especially the dancing hall!
Let no engaging dreams of easy lucre
Impel you into two-up schools to walk.
Fight shy of poker, rummy, nap and euchre.
Of ribald and unedifying talk;
And give that deleterious pastime snooker.
If I may phrase it so, a miss in baulk.
But, above all, I bid you look askance
Upon that soul-destroying snare the dance.
Keep clear of whippet-sprints and pony-racing,
And stadia echoing with stoush and din;
Forbear to linger where gaunt hounds are
chasing
With fierce determination hares of tin.
For these frivolities are all debasing
Steps to depravity and stairs to sin.
Avoid the s.p. joints and bucket-shops.
And malt —and both varieties of hops.
The Devil’s found in ev’ry sort of setting;
You never know where Lucifer may lurk;
Fie baits his traps and goes about his netting
From Bondi’s waterfront to back o’ Bourke.
But where young men and maids are pirouetting
In pairs—it’s there he does his deadliest
work.
At all events “La Marechale’’ tells us so
And, son, it’s little that she doesn’t know.
N.S.W.
IFORD. ,


N.
20 form
9 d
10/
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAYENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS,
RK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
This is the last day of “sanctions.”
They were imposed for nine months, and
instead of stopping a campaign in Africa
they nearly started, a war in Europe
which must have flamed into another
world war. The British Empire would
have borne the brunt of the war, and it
paid for the boycott by losing trade (with
consequent loss of employment), which
may not be regained. And the loss to
France was such that it certainly con-
tributed to the great strikes which shook
that country. Now, as a result of “sanc-
tions” and of the Franco-Soviet pact,
there has been concluded an Austro-Ger-
man-Italian “agreement” which looks
very like an alliance.
Thorby, defending the British Govern-
ment’s first response to his Government’s
“magnificent tariff gesture”:
Britain cannot afford to lose the Danish
market for its manufactured goods, or its
purchasing power will suffer. The latter
is a basis of its support to the Dominions.
Similarly, Australia cannot afford to lose
the Pacific market for its wool, wheat,
flour, tallow, pearlshell, hides and skins
and so forth, or its ability to pay its
interest to Britain will suffer. Thorby’s
contention is far more convincing up-
ended.
After Judge Macindoe’s remarks on
portion of his evidence at the Brophy in-
quiry, there was nothing for Vic. Police
Chief Blarney but resignation; and he
resigned last week. There is considerable
sympathy for Blarney among the rank
and file and the public, and, at 52, he is
still young enough to carve out another
career. Really it ought to be a case of
“back to the army again” for so gifted
a soldier.
How characteristic of Lyons to invite
the leaders of the woolgrowers’ organisa-
tions to confer with him last week, seven
weeks after he had done all the damage
to their industry! The sugar interest was
consulted about a renewal of its agree-
ment nearly two years before the thing
expired ; the negotiations were completed
12 months ago, and the renewal bill was
introduced as an urgent measure, to take
effect from September 1, 1936, last De-
cember. But then the sugar interest con-
trols electorates; the wool interest
doesn’t.
Possibly uncontrollable anger at the
blow struck at the wool industry when
so many drought-stricken graziers in
Queensland and Westralia are trying to
get square contributed to the sickness
which prostrated Premier Forgan Smith
in Sydney, When he felt equal to ex-
pressing his sentiments he said “the thing
was stupidly conceived and clumsily exe-
cuted ; the whole business is con-
foundedly rotten.” The only reply came
from Fisken, M.H.R., who bleated that it
was “a great pity to criticise Australia’s
action.” The Government put Fisken on
a board, and Fisken thinks the Govern-
ment is Australia and above criticism.
“They will vainly appeal to us to get
recruits,” said Attlee, the British “Labor” ■
leader, of the Ministers who, when it
came to the pinch, refused his crowd’s
demand for “military sanctions” against
Italy. “I will not support a recruiting
campaign.” Australians should note his
words and resolve not to depend on this
English politician or his crazy policy. He
may be Prime Minister in a year or two.
The British Government has lost the
Derby seat that was Jimmy Thomas’s to
a Labor professor, whose majority was
2753 —Thomas’s was 12,529. The Labor
professor attributes the result to popular
resentment at “the betrayal of Abyssinia
and the League,” or words to that effect;
and if he is right it is a serious matter
for Britain and the Dominions. At a
time when every other Great Power is
armed to the teeth British Labor insists
on John Bull being the world’s police-
man, and a policeman without a baton
or even substantial boots —just carpet
slippers.
Dead in Brisbane, deeply regretted by
Labor-unionists, the “Daily Standard,”
aged 23. It was the fourth Labor daily
to turn up its toes since 1920. While the
funeral obsequies were being conducted,
the Lang A.L.P. executive was threaten-
ing to expel a crowd of “comrades”
whose offence is that they object to risk-
ing more Labor-union money on a
Sunday paper to boom Lang.
“S. M. Herald” put it right at the
bottom of a column:
At the London wool sales, prices of
merino and of fine and medium crossbreds
declined 5 p.c.
So much for Yorkshire’s promise to our
Mr. Stevens that it wouldn’t let the
price go down.
“The conversations at Montreux have revealed decided differences of opinion between
Britain and Russia as to the passage of warships through the Dardanelles, and prompted
the ‘Times’ to declare that the Russian Bear of Tsarist times has been transformed into a
hippopotamus.”
J. Bull ( half-remembering a pre-war song): “Everybody’s doing
me—-it’s the Bear.”
At the conference of the League of
Nations Union which demanded “com-
plete sanctions against all aggressors,”
Raymond Watt, the secretary, was
chosen to go to Geneva, but it was men-
tioned that it might be difficult to raise
the money. The difficulty was soon
overcome by Canberra, which added Mr.
Watt to the delegation it is sending to
the next palavers of the League Assembly.
If Australians must continue to subsidise
the moribund League, they are surely en-
titled to a report on its proceedings by
an Australian with an open mind ; but
only rank partisans need apply.
Competition in the Government lot-
tery business is keener than ever. One
of the four States engaged in the ignoble
traffic hopes to outdistance rivals by
offering £50,000 first-prizes, the cry, of
course, being that “the hospitals will
benefit.” A clergyman dryly recalls that
hospitals got 23 p.c. of the concern’s re-
ceipts last year and 39 p.c. in 1921.
In the Premiers’ Plan times U.A.P.
politicians used to say “All the profes-
sors are behind us.” Not one profes-
sor or lecturer on economics has given
his blessing to the Government’s trade
wars. Appearances are that they all
agree with Prof. Giblin, who, speaking at
Adelaide, described “the recent tariff
action” as “drastic, short-sighted and
revolutionary,” “influenced by rather
narrow British interests,” and “carried
out without any reference to the Tariff
Board.” Lyons had so great an opinion
of Giblin, a fellow-Tasmanian, that he
asked the prof, to act as substitute for
Wickens when that statistician fell ill,
and also put him on the Commonwealth
Grants Commission.
Nation-minded South Australians read
with considerable satisfaction a report of
a lecture in which Crown Solicitor
Hannan predicted that “long before the
completion of our second centenary of
settlement we shall be governed by a Par-
liament legislating for the whole of Aus-
tralia.” Mr. Hannan seemed rather dole-
ful about the prospect, but he had no
need to be. When Australia becomes a
union there will be greater opportunities
for men of his stamp. Indeed, it is one
of the many counts in the indictment
against the existing chaos of government
that able public servants like Hannan and
Victoria’s Chenowith, and, in the poli-
tical field, Collier and Forgan Smith, give
to the service of provinces and an absurd
system talents that were meant for the
nation.
According to Moore, the “reduction
of the Queensland deficit” to £714,800
was just one of the Government’s
merry jests. Loan expenditure for
five months to the end of May aver-
aged £249,128 (the highest was £329,523,
the lowest £113,911), but in June there
was a gigantic leap to £782,148. This is
pleasantly reminiscent of Government
railway employment figures in the good
old days. They rose by hundreds the
month before a general election and
slumped to normal a month after.
Tackled about the way his Govern-
ment is adding to the State debt, Tas,
Premier Ogilvie pleads that after two
years or so he hasn’t spent a million yet,
and that the increase for five years will
barely exceed a million. As he works
it out, the debt amounted to £27,071,478
at the end of the 1931 year, and
£28,101,659 at June 30, 1936. Lavish
Commonwealth grants and sinking-fund
payments to which the Commonwealth
has contributed have helped to keep it,
down.
Some N.S.W. Leg. Councillors were
very critical of the railway from Suther-
land to Cronulla, which is to cost
£414,000 “exclusive of resumptions,” and
is expected by the Railway Commissioner
to mop up heaps more tax-revenue. Con-
cannon said there had been a lot of traf-
ficking in Cronulla land, one portion hav-
ing been sold to “Arthur Donovan Swan,
c/o C. O. J. Monro, Cronulla,” by
“Monro, and Buist, estate-agents, Cro-
nulla,” for £14,201 10s. C. O. J. Monro
is the U.A.P. member for the district.
Assistant-Minister Ryan read a note
from Monro:
I am not an estate-agent—l sold my
business years ago.
The bill went through, so the public is
to lose another £22,000 a year and prob-
ably a lot more.
In Victoria a few bandits and murderers
have escaped detection during the last
few years, but in lesser avenues of crime
the Force has been conspicuously suc-
cessful. During the 12 months to June
30, £127 was paid in constabulary
rewards for prosecutions against boys for
playing football in the streets. Altogether
196 miscreants were apprehended; the
record-holder bagged 27.
There was prolonged applause at the
N.S.W. Commercial Travellers’ dinner
when the P.M. said “We are going fo
bring you thousands of visitors” ; but
Mr. Spooner will have a word to say
about that. Mr. Spooner has just fixed
up a “uniform” taxation measure which
extends the “principle” of taxing income
from other than N.S.W. sources from
his “special” to his “ordinary” income
tax. There were mild objections in the
Assembly:
A. S. Henry: According to the Minis-
ter’s argument, the tourist should be taxed
because he has the use of our services.
Mr. Spooner: I can’t see how we can
provide for every anomaly.
N.S.W. population returns for six years
show that the State lost 4723 persons
by excess of emigration over immigration.
There is not likely to be much improve-
ment until “anomalies” are removed, Mr.
Spooner among them.
N.S.W. politicians and newspapers
have fallen into a bad habit of misusing
financial expressions. They call buying
lottery and tote tickets “investing,” and
moneys thus risked “investments,” and
when the last of a series of annual losses
is less than the one immediately preced-
ing it they say “the deficit has been re-
duced.” Thus with State consolidated
revenue showing a loss of £2,846,000 in
1934-35 and of £1,687,000 in 1935-36, it
is alleged “that the deficit was reduced
to £1,687,000.” Similarly, though the
Auditor-General reports that losses on
the Government railways for ten years
to June, 1935, amounted to £28,178,700,
it is given out that “the railway deficit
was reduced to £700,000 in ,1935-36.”
Only the ignorant are deceived, but it
seems to be assumed that most people
are ignorant.
From Molongloside:
The Government is prohibiting the impor-
tation of practically every important line of
Japanese commodities except silks, which are
to be admitted for three months on the basis
of imports for the September quarter of 1935.
No one can say what the outcome will be,
least of all the Minister for No Trade Treaties.
He and his associates seem to be banking on
the Japanese interests injured by the prohibi-
tions bringing pressure to bear on their own
Government; but where Japanese national sen-
timent is inflamed every other consideration is
swept away. If Japan does without our wool,
the Government will have to set up an organisa-
tion to buy the surplus wool, probably at a
great loss.


PLAN TO COMBAT GAS ATTACKS.
“The heed for measures to combat possible gas attacks is emphasised in a N.S.W. departmental report.”


THE MARTIN PLACE EXTENSION.
Rooms and Suites are now available in this new and delightful section of the Hotel,
which is set back from the street frontage, and thus the maximum of sunshine and
fresh air is secured. “The Australia" now assumes pride of place as the
Finest Hotel South of the Line.
“The Australia.” The Hotel of the Commonwealth. Sydney,
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel. Sydney
PERSONAL ITEM S
The new directors of Melbourne
“Argus” are a solid team. Staniforth
Ricketson, the chairman, is head of
J. B. Weres, the stockbroking firm.
The vice-chairman is J. Kingsley
Henderson, a director of Were’s In-
vestment Trust and a specialist in insur-
ance. Weres —like Baillieus, whose Lon-
don manager, “Willie” Robinson, gradu-
ated from the “Age”—have a penchant
for pressmen, among whom they recruit
their bright juniors. The other directors
are George Fairbairn, formerly Vic-
torian Agent-General and one of Vic-
toria’s greatest rowing men, founder of
Henley-on-Yarra, trustee of the long-
standing Wilson interest in the old
paper; J. B. Aitken, solicitor, who was
a partner in the old firm and a
trustee of the Lauchlan Mackinnon estate;
Allan Spowers, also representing an 80-
year-old family interest, and G. Dalziel
Kelly, who was trained for the law, took
over control of his family’s big pastoral
interests and is president of the Graziers’
Federal Council. A. C. C. Holtz, who
has been 42 years on the staff, remains
as g.m.
Counihan has given prominence to
Firmin McKinnon’s teeth, which are
about the least-used part of his anatomy
outside his claws, which even his worst
enemies have never seen properly un-
sheathed. Brisbane has known Firmin
well for over a generation—as a blithe,
pale Parliamentary reporter transcribing
ultra-neat Sloan-Duployan notes into a
meticulous handwriting on the superb
“Telegraph” copy-paper, which every
other local scribe used to steal when
opportunity offered. Later, as a middle-
aged leader writer, with a pen dipped in
Shakspeare and the Testaments, and as
a mature associate editor and literary
editor of the “Courier-Mail,” which he
represented at the last Imperial Press
Conference in S. Africa. For a decade
or two he was the confirmed bachelor
Brisbane’s FIRMIN McKINNON.
of the Brisbane press, but broke his
record by marrying Emmie Powell,
woman editor of the “Telegraph.” Since
then the pair of them have been spear-
heads in literary and artistic movements
north of 28, and the joint guides and
friends of aspiring writers and lame dogs
who choose to take welcome advantage
of their good nature. There is not much
of McKinnon, and most of it is heart.
Low’s sketch shows the late Dean
Talbot, of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Syd-
ney, as he was in his prime. A Lanca-
shire man, only 59 when he died, he was
educated at Manchester Grammar School
and Emmanuel College, Cambridge,
where he took first-classes in the first
DEAN TALBOT.
part classical and second part theological
tripos and carried off the most coveted
prizes in his years for Greek and Hebrew.
He was not ordained till he was 28, but
within eight years he had risen to be a
dean, and a year afterwards was made
commissary of Sydney diocese. During
the war he was senior Anglican chaplain
with the A.1.F., ranking as colonel. He
was wounded. In 1935 he was awarded
the A.M.F. efficiency decoration. In his
earlier years he was a sturdy, athletic
person who enjoyed his lacrosse, tennis
and cricket as much as his diggings into
ecclesiastical history and biography and
his occasional good-tempered and
vigorous disputations on public affairs.
He was a firm friend of the under-dog.
An African King’s Birthday knight-
hood went to a son of the veteran school-
teacher A. O. Thiele, still hale and hearty
at about 90, who taught a few thousand
young Australians in Melbourne and
Doncaster (Vic.), Arthur Cocks, a former
Sydney Lord Mayor, among the number.
The son —Edmond —for a while was pro-
fessor of geology at the Adelaide Uni-
versity, He is in Tanganyika as British
Government mining and geological
adviser.
Dead at 53, John Morrissey, who went
through life like a big, friendly, energetic
wind. For all his large physique he was
never strong, but he enlisted in England
at the outbreak of war, was drafted to
the navy and then to the command of
the balloon-testing section, returning as a
major. Originally his father’s stock
buyer, he became a station manager and
eventually head of his own firm, which
acquired a string of stations in northern
N.S.W., including Yugilbar and Harben
Vale, together with Big Creek (Q.). His
group built up its own Hereford studs at
Harben Vale and Blandford, formerly
White properties, and had a Devon
breeding depot at Cobark, near Gloucester
(N.S.W.). He had the reputation of being
an ultra-good employer and of having a
hand which went naturally to the change
pocket.
From an old associate:
George Ainsworth, who becomes organiser
to the Queensland U.A.P., should bring a
sartorial polish into Queensland politics which
they have not known since the days of Joey
Bell. Tall, dark, pale and romantic-looking,
well dressed and carrying a Georgian-looking
malacca, he was a familiar but mysterious
figure during the war. His look of delicacy
completely belied him, for he was a man of
outstanding courage and fibre. He was with
Mawson in the Antarctic from 1911-14, and
during the four war years was head of a
special British intelligence section. My clearest
picture of him is as he stood immaculate in
ihe centre of the mixed bayonets, revolver shots
and flying palings of Brisbane “Russian riots”
in 1919 disgustedly watching the melee round
him as if it were a draper’s bargain sale.
After the war he took charge of the Com-
monwealth’s foreign-affairs department, went to
the 1923 Imperial Conference and represented
Australia at Geneva that year. Later he went
into the motor trade, in which he has held
several managerial positions.
Tom Blarney, who retires from the Vic-
torian Police Commissionership, was re-
garded by Monash as one of the best staff
men that any Great War army had. His
operations orders and other organisa-
tional documents were masterpieces.
Camberley uses his Villers Bret, orders
as a textbook. Thirty when war
broke out. Blarney was an ex-
schoolmaster who had just brilliantly
passed the Indian staff college—“a
man of very quick intelligence and
exceedingly definite views,” says Bean —
and Bridges picked him as one of his
senior men. He rose to be chief of staff
by 1918, and after the war was Austra-
lian defence representative in London. He
has commanded the 3rd Division since
1931, and was knighted last year. His
acting successor in his police job, W. W.
W. Mooney, is senior superintendent of
the force, but he reaches the retiring age
of 60 in September.
A. L. Yuill, keeper of the Australian
Stud Book, has generations of horsey
blood in his veins. His grandfather,
W. C. Yuill, brought sheep from Tas-
mania to Victoria in 1837, and was re-
puted to be the first white to land at
Geelong. A little later Ballarat was in-
cluded in his run, and in 1839 W.C.Y. was
playing the amateur jockey in £25-a-
-side stakes as a preliminary to a racing
career which won him the first Champion
Stakes in 1859 with Flying Buck —Ihe
colors were the same as those carried by
A.L.’s great steeplechaser Redditch.
W.C.Y. compiled Vol. 1 of the Stud
A. L. YUILL.
Book ; his son Archibald —a V.R.C. com-
mitteeman for many years—produced
Vol. JI ; so A.L. —born Melbourne, 1891,
educated Melbourne Grammar and Uni-
versity—is the third recording angel in
the family.
W. A. Bartlett, general manager of
Dunlop Perdriau, is English-born,
Toronto University educated. He began
his war service in the ranks of the 15th
Battalion of Canadian expeditionaries,
transferred to a British line regiment and
thence to the R.F.C., in which he became
Dunlaps G.M.
a flight commander. Afterwards, he joined
Westinghouse as a field engineer, and
was associated with KDKA, the world’s
first radio station, for which he helped to
broadcast the first programme. Via city
of London commercial experience he
found himself with the English Dunlop
firm and then in command in Australia.
He has one hobby: Dunlops.
Australia might have hung out a flag
or two on July 8, when John D. Rocke-
feller passed the ninety-seventh milestone,
for Australia has shared in the Rocke-
feller benefactions. The original Rocke-
feller in America was Johann Peter
Rockefeller, from Sagendorf, Germany.
He was a miller by trade, but turned
farmer. William Rockefeller, his great-
grandson, born in 1810, peddled medi-
cine. John D. was William’s son ; he got
his first job in September, 1855, in a
produce store in Cleveland. At 18 he
started his own business, and in 1862 he
went into oil —to become, at 39, master
of America’s greatest industry.
Ex-Premier John Allan, who had a
snug farm at Kyabram (Vic.), left estate
valued at £22,600.
Brisbane Grammar School has lost, by
death, two of its oldest masters. “Jimmy”
Cowan had been at the school 50 years
when he retired a few months back.” He
had been silver-haired for over a genera-
tion, but up till a few years ago was a
line athlete. He was ambidextrous at
everything. He could draw different sub-
jects with different hands at the same
time and write one sentence upright
with one hand while laying down an-
other upside down with the other. At
cricket practice he was cheerfully
indifferent whether he batted or bowled
left hand or right. A. E. (“Pompey”)
Porter —he came to the school in
’92 —was a fresh-complexioned Eng-
lishman, with gold-rimmed glasses, who
looked as if he had stepped straight
out of Stalky and Co. Since it was
his firm opinion that the best asset
in life was a knowledge of elementary
Latin he taught Eutropius and Caesar
with such religious zeal that few forgot
his grounding in after life any more than
his firm and kindly lectures on “playing
the game.”


Pfii
m
•
■
..
U m t mW
9m
m
A L p<’^i
*«
>»> SOO (*' K* r
• 4 -
'■tm
■:
■
-
v M
g m b
»:*«|
Iff
>■ '■**>' JW** * ' **»* ■
■Hi
il
«K »r«> «r«
'«»»■* *■*
■ *;: at- “■*' "
i i
jg£i£ #
r j
iii
''• ' Vtl .' ;^l?
**»
Hk
■ v-/- 4
t*
f ~li| J/Pj
il : -rff
%mm
üß-
\
me as a
fine liqueur
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
SOLE AGENTS—DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.
('
It was not always in a bottle, this White Horse Whisky of yours. For years
and long years it slept in a cask, untouched and untroubled, unhurried by
time. Slowly changing, slowly mellowing, slowly growing old. While its aroma
grew rare and delicate, while its touch on the tongue became gentle as dew,
while its fire sank and spread to a genial glow. Until it could come to your
glass and your judgment, as fine as a fine liqueur.
WH 7A-36.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- ami 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner Irom 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.),
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, o:i request
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
,T. W. BARNES. Manager.
Directors - .
F N. YABWOOD
(Chairman)
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
' HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 87
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House* 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ- Ke-
March, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
1927.. 46,575 35 p.c. = 35,423 2,651 25,862
Goodwill written up £93,367, and that Deflcit>
amount capitalised .. .. .. 67,505
1928.. 41,421 15 p.c. = 31,034 11,855 68,973
1929.. 40,182 15 „ „ 31,322 3,724 63,837
1930.. 38,270 llj „ „ 23,659 3,617 52,843
1931.. 24,291 6 ~ ~12,745 6,735 48,032
1932.. 17,275 2 „ „ 4,208 17,455 52,420
1933.. 32,853 74 „ „ 15,741 15,391 50,699
1934.. 36,602 9 „ „ 18,830 7,795 40,722
1935. . 37,708 10 „ „ 20,976 2,841 26,831
1936.. 47,402 12J ~ „ 26.313 6,299 12,041
In addition to interest on its short-term
advances to wage-earners in the form of
cash orders, and discounts from retailers,
etc., this vendor of credit on the pay-
as-you-earn principle is interested in the
furniture business as well. Its extra-
ordinary success during the post-war
boom, a comparatively mild experience so
far as bad debts (shown as written off
in the table) are concerned during the
slump and a remarkable recovery in
the figures since suggest that the co. has
select connections, which speaks well for
the management’s ability in estimating
the credit-worthiness of clients.
What a money-spinner the business has
been is plain from the fact that £133,609
of the £206,905 of paid capital is bonus
scrip, the last £93,367 of which was
handed out in 1927, goodwill being
written up by that amount for the pur-
pose, thus raising the intangible to
£112,087, which is not treated as an asset
herein. Gross earnings, which fell from
£85,570 in ’29 to £52,754 in ’32, sprang
£11,211 last year, reaching £87,801. In-
cluding taxation, administrative charges
(£45,399) took £6517 of the increase.
Allowing for unexplained additions and
subtractions to reserves, the net result
was £6236 better at £41,103, or 19.8 p.c.
on capital, as against 16.8, 13.9, 8.4, a
loss, 8.4 and 16.7 p.c. back to 1930. Two
and a half points were added to the div.,
making 12j p.c, for the year. The £14,790
that remained reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
sheet to £12,041.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in a growth of £lB,lBl in
debtors’ balances, etc.:
1926. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £98,774 £206,900 £206,905 £206,905
Liabilities . . 52,589 34,845 41,343 49,352
Freehold . . 39,065 39,135 50,337 54,747
Furniture, etc. 2,038 2,640 4,367 5,244
Stock.. .. 1,805 7,074 10,463
Book debts, etc. 135,028 126,192 135,213 153,394
Loans on
mortgage .. 20,000 16,000 16,000
Cash.. .. 3,700 18,929 18,025
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£148,530, including
stocks) was £12,657. The growth of
£4410 in the freehold item is in connec-
tion with the furniture showrooms in
Pitt-street.
Though tariff and other developments
have taken some of the brightness out
of the general outlook, there is a wide
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions. Only the B shares are listed—
there are 167,068 of them fully paid to
£1 and 19,315 paid to 55., with priority as
to capital. At 40s. (30s. a year ago) the
return is 6.2 p.c. on a 12y p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 235. 4d. in net tangibles.
All shares rank equally for divs.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 15,481 2700 8 p.c.= 10,918 1863 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ „ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,000 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 4} „ „ 7,491 1358 2,691
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350* Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil 23,310
Profit.
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1913 21,397
1935.. 8,299 4741 f . Nil • 3558 17,839
1930.. 20,090 7324} 4 p.c. = 6,659 ■6107 11,732
* Six months. f 9 p.e. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l,
and 6.9 p.c. for 13 months to 31/10/’32.
1 Includes all arrears.
Malley’s and other manufacturers of
builders’ and plumbers’ hardware, etc.,
greatly increased their plant capacity and
continued to win good profits during the
post-war boom. After allowing for the
pref. div._, the co. netted 14.4 p.c. on its
ord. capital for the 12 months to the
close of accounts in 1929. Then slump
brought the plant almost to a standstill,
and, as usually happens in such circum-
stances, price-cutting followed. The
co. traded at a loss for the next three
years, and payments to the prefs. fell be-
hind.
Meanwhile, debtors’ balances and
stocks were worked down, the outside
debt was reduced, cash was strengthened,
and new lines were added to the list of
manufactures. With the turn of the
tide in the building and other trades
turnover improved, and earnings have
made a heartening recovery.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts prices were steadier,
trade continued to improve, and the net
result sprang £11,791, reaching £20,090,
which was sufficient to cover a full year’s
pref. div. at 9 p.c. and show 10.4 p.c. on
ord. capital. Actually £7324 was handed
to the prefs., cleaning their slate to date,
the ords. got 4 p.c.—the first thing of its
kind since 1930 —and the other £6107 re-
mained in the business, reducing the
amount of ord. capital unrepresented by
tangibles to £11,732.
Balance-sheet movements are en-
couraging:—
1931. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £196,473 £196,473 £196,473 £196,473
liabilities . . 17,714 23,833 51,484 64,219
Freeholds . . 55,632 55,859 57,925 59,652
I .leaseholds . . 17,272 15,680 14,662 14,923
Plant, etc. . , 40,304 40,820 40,215 42,372
Stock.. .. 54,772 50,960 60,543 65,205
Hook debts .. 24,465 32,035 60,124 79,375
Cash, etc. .. 11,677 1,642 1,389 1,416
The year’s brisker trading again shows
up in a growth of £19,251 in debtors’
balances, £4662 in slocks and £2157 in
plant, etc. To meet the outlay £12,735
was added to the amount coming to out-
siders. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£81,777, in-
cluding stocks) was £11,205.
Although the outlook generally sug-
gests that trade and industry may mark
time for a while, prospects of both prefs.
and ords. remaining in the picture are
encouraging. At 255. 9d. the prefs. re-
turn 5.4 p.c, on a 6.9. p.c, div. basis. The
ords. at 18s. lOd. (16s. a year ago) return
4.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. distribution. The net
tangible cover is £6 3s. 2d. prefs. and
18s. Bd. ords.
New Zealand Paper Mills, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 9,059 0 p.c. = 9,000 59 25,089
1928.. 9,052 6 „ „ 9,000 52 25,141
1929.. 11,033 6} ~ „ 9,750 1283 26,424
1930.. 11,949 74 „ ~11,250 699 27,123
1931.. 12,357 74 „ „ 11,250 1107 28,230
1932.. 11,798 7 ~ ~10,500 1298 29,528
1933.. 11,814 7 „ 10,500 1314 30,842
1934.. 11,177 7 „ „ 10,600 677 31,519
1935.. 11,191 7 „ ~10,500 691 32,210
1936.. 11,763 7 „ „ 10,500 1263 33,473
This co., which has been supplying the
Dominion with wrapping-paper since
1880, has put up a remarkable per-
formance over the last decade. It
plodded along until the war provided the
protection which politicians had failed to
give. Then, following a run of nice
profits, an extra £50,000 of capital was
gathered (making £150,000 in all) to
finance plant extensions during the post-
war boom. But the revival of manu-
facture in Europe and of importing in
Maoriland had its effect upon local in-
dustries, and N.Z. Paper dropped its div.
from 10 p.c. in 1921 to p.c. in the fol-
lowing year and to 6 p.c. in 1927.
Two years later, when the economic
barometer was low and falling fast, de-
clared net earnings and divs. both in-
creased, thanks to cheap supplies of im-
ported pulp and a little tariff protection.
Over the last eight years, declared net
earnings exhibit a remarkable evenness
notwithstanding rather violent fluctua-
tions in trade generally. To cope with
the recent growth in demand and provide
for further expansion of the business,
substantial additions have been made to
plant, to the benefit of costs. The co.’s
two mills were fully employed during the
last term, but after setting aside an un-
specified amount for depreciation and
other contingencies only £572 more profit
was shown. The div. was kept at 7 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements and other
things suggest that the board can see
more business ahead:
mo. 1034. 1035. 1936.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Overdraft .. 40,505 1.6,069
Creditors and
tax reserve 10,681. 13,957 33,183 34,136
Property and
plant .. 173,477 139,397 170,113 190,281
Afforestation area 1,499 2,310 2,362 2,587
Stocks .. 40,966 45.905 39,942 31,948
Debtors .. 17.861 14,615 15,226 17,591
Cash, etc. .. 772 5,552 116 3,774
Last year £20,168 net was added to the
book value of premises and plant, making
the growth in the item £50,884 over the
last two years. For the four years before
that there was a net reduction of £34,080,
which suggests that depreciation has not
been neglected. To meet last year’s out-
lay, the co. went to its bankers for
£16,069. The reduction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£3lOB, including
stocks) was £18,993.
What the future holds for the business
it is difficult to say. Since the close of
accounts more new paper-making plant,
said to be the widest of its type south
of the Equator, has been installed. Still,
the Government’s policy of shorter hours
and higher wages has set costs on the up-
grade, and one can hear a knife being
sharpened with erection of pulp- and
paper-making plants by some of the
forestry cos.
Owing partly to all this and partly
to the rise in interest rates, the market
prices the fully-paid pound shares at 295.
as against 345. a year ago. The return
at 295. is 4.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 245. 6d. in net tangibles.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
Act To K, - Re-
Dcc., Profit. Dividends. serves. servos.
& £, £,£,
1925.. 5,632 7 p.e. 8055 13,823
Doss.
1926.. 406 Nil 13,417
Profit.
1927.. 526 Nil 13,943
I,OSS.
1928.. .6,674 Nil 7,269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 8,145
Loss.
1930.. 7,677 Nil 468
Profit.
1931.. 480 Nil 480 948
1932.. 1,276 Nil 1,276 2,224
1933.. 11,115 Nil. 11,115 13,339
Loss.
1934.. 5,701 Nil 7,638
Profit.
1935. . 8,589 4 p.c. = 4724 3,865 11,503
After a nine-year wait, shareholders are
in the picture again with a 4 p.c. div.,
and prospects of another distribution at
the end of the current year are encour-
aging. Good returns were won during
the decade to the close of accounts in
1925, and £56,190 of reserves was capi-
talised. Then, owing to high prices and
the multiplication of small growers, it
was decided to double the capacity of
the mill, raising it to 100,000 tons per
annum ; the board went to its bankers
for the money. The debt pressed
heavily, while lighter crushings bumped
up costs, and the growth in the surplus
exported and the fall in prices further
reduced earnings:
Cane Sugar Maim- Sugar and
Crushed, factured. By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1924.. 86,076 10,265 £275,743 £24 12 6
1926.. 57,701 6,743 155,335 23 510
1927.. 46,355 5,917 130,266 22 110
1928.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 22 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
1930.. 47,990 6,603 123,206 19 16 1
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
1932.. 52,001 6,824 114,751 16 11 7
3933.. 82,362 10,908 194,647 15 7 7
1934.. 44,849 6,066 105,356 18 4 8
1935.. 80,086 11,115 '189,693 16 0 2
A bumper crop in 1933 brought crush-
ings nearer to capacity, costs benefited
and net earnings shot up to 9.4 p.c. on
the £118,086 of capital. Nature was
unkind in the following term, and a loss
of £5701 was recorded. Last year an
extra 35,237 tons of cane’ was put
through the rollers, costs dropped £2 4s.
6d. a ton, the average price of raws (£l6
175.) was about 6s. per ton better, and
gross earnings shot up £84,337. The net
result was a profit of £8589, equal to 7.2
p.c. on capital. Incidentally, costs in-
clude maintenance (£15,348, up £8777)
and depreciation (£10,021, up £4351)
charges.
When the books closed there was
£54,855 (down £18,794) coming to the
bank and £18,574 (up £5703) to sundry
creditors. The lot exceeded more or less
liquids (£36,961). by £36,468, an improve-
ment of £17,187 over the twelvemonth.
Plant, etc., figured at £174,995, down
£9584.
Shareholders’ prospects depend largely
upon the quantity of cane put through
the rollers. At the moment indications
are that the 1936 crop may approximate
the record crushing of 1933.
At 12s. (7s. a year ago) the pound
shares return 6.8 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 21s. lid. in net tan-
gibles, all plant, etc., worth what it can
earn.
Bycroft, Ltd. (Auckland)
Net To tic- Re-
Mar., • Profit. Dividends. servos. servos.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 9,463 8 p.o. = 6,585 2878 30,283
Reserves capitalised, £8250 .. .. 22,033
1927.. 9,018 8 p.o. = 7,200 1758 23,791
1928.. 10,286 8 „ „ 7,260 3026 26,817
Reserves capitalised, £9250 .. .. 17,567
1929.. 10,554 8 p.c, = 7,260 3294 20,861
1930.. 11,200 10 „ „ 10,000 1200 22,061
1931.. 10,830 9.5 „ „ 9,584 1246 23,307
1932 .. 9,622 9.2 „ „ 9,107 455 23,762
1933.. 9,490 9.2 „ „ 9,107 323 24,085
Unexplained additions, £lO,OOO . . 34,085
1934.. 12,209 10 p.c. = 10,000 2209 36,294
1935.. 11,764 10 „ „ 10,000 1764 38,058
1936.. 13,900 8 „ „ 8,000 5900 43,958
As far as lies within its own power, this
co. has done most things necessary to
put shareholders on a solid footing.
Flourmilling and biscuit-making pay the
dividends, which can be described as
steady over a period of years. There
have been two small bonus issues since
the war (the Great War). Last year’s
profit was a record, including unex-
plained reserve additions ; but, because of
uncertainty following fixed-price and
other regulations introduced by the
Savage Government, the div. was dropped
from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c.
At £13,900 (up £2136) net profits last
year were 13.9 p.c. on the £lOO,OOO of
capital (all in ords.), as against 11.8,
12.2, 9.5 and 9.6 p.c. back to 1932. The
reduced handout left £5900 for reserves
(now visibly £43,958).
The sharemarket has a high regard for
the scrip. There has never been much
tariff protection on biscuits in M.L., but
the exchange has of late years helped,
and, notwithstanding “bread wars” that
have at times affected the price of flour,
Bycrofts have paid the divs. shown in
the above table, added to visible reserves,
and cut back the book value of fixed
assets.
A new biscuit factory, to cost about
£30,000, is to be put up, and £15,000
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


STARVED
NERVES . . CAUSE
NERVINESS . LISTLESSNESS
NERVE PAINS . NERVOUS-
HEADACHES .SLEEPLESSNESS.
NERVOUS INDIGESTION.
BIDOMAK
MAKES THEM WELL OR COSTS YOU NOTHING
AMAZING REPORTS
FROM USERS
Originals of reports quoted below
may be inspected at our office:
PALE. LIFELESS, HALF SICK ALL
THE TIME
Ashfleld, Sydney, N.S.W
“BIDOMAK”
Dear Sir,
When I purchased two bottles of “Bia-
omak” after hearing of Its worth, 1 ex-
pected good results and got them, which
is more than I can say of the many
other tonics I have taken. As an ex-
tremely hard case of nerves and depres-
sion, I feel capable of judging a tonic of
worth, for I have spent pounds on sup-
posedly excellent tonics to no avail —but
“Bidomak” has solved my problem. It
is the only tonic, out of the many that 1
know, that I would advocate to my
friends. Economical and efficacious with
lasting good results. “Every dose seems a
blessing” is how I would adequately de-
crlbe it.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) Mrs. D.X.
(Original of this letter on our flies.)
Look at the Illustration of healthy and
unhealthy nerve tissues shown on this
page. Then you will realise how seriously
nervous disorders can affect you generally.
Worry, financial strain, overwork, drain
the system of the vital mineral foods
which are necessary to life itself. Modern
food does not replace them. The result
of anaemia starved nerves, resulting in
recurrent headaches, nerve pains, neuritis
or neuralgia. Bidomak replaces these
Minerals in the system. It provides iron,
lime, potash, soda in liquid phosphorised
form, for quick assimilation and results.
BIDOMAK RESTORES HEALTH,
BUILDS UP BLOOD
Bidomak provides iron to build good,
rich blood, and Increase the supply of
oxygen in the blood-stream. Tills oxygen
1.? used to burn up waste in the tissues
and give the other ingredients in Bidomak
s chance to do you good.
BIDOMAK BUILDS NERVES
.Bidomak contains assimilable phosphor-
us, which helps to keep the brain and
nerves alert and vigorous. Phosphorus
is absolutely necessary for well being in
this respect.
BIDOMAK HELPS DIGESTION
Bidomak provides sodium in the form
of phosphates and glycerophosphates.
These tone up the gastric nerves and
increase digestive powers. Even small
children or convalescing invalids may
take Bidomak without reaction or harm-
ful effects.
BIDOMAK BUILDS STRONG BONES
AND TEETH
More than 47 per cent of the solid
weight of the body is calcium. A de-
ficiency of this important mineral causes
tooth decay—rickets in children, and may
be the cause of rheumatism, gout, and
similar crippling disorders. Bidomak
therefore contains calcium to build up
strong bones and teeth, and complete the
work of the other vital foods.
WHY BIDOMAK DOES GOOD SO
QUICKLY
Bidomak does good so quickly because
all the minerals are provided in a pre-
dissolved liquid form. They are then
absorbed at once, and can begin their
healing action from the very first moment
they are taken into the stomach.
WHY BIDOMAK IS SAFE
There is not one single substance con-
tained in Bidomak which is not present
in a perfectly healthy human body.
Bidomak feeds, does not drug, and
builds up permanently, starved nerves,
blood, muscles and brain.
i
y%
•v{w
IX**
it;.
til
sfc'
The top illustration shows healthy
nerve tissue, the bottom sketch shows
inflamed shrunken tissue due to min-
eral starvation. No wonder nerves cry
out in pain and sdfferers become list-
less and down. Bidomak builds up
starved nerves and makes them well
and healthy.
Benefit Guaranteed
Or YOU PAY
NOTHING
So many nerve sufferers have
obtained immediate relief from
ItIDOMAK that if you do not
benefit hy taking it, we will
refund your money within
14 days of purchase, on re-
turn of the nearly empty
ItIDOMAK bottle to the Doug-
las Drug Co, Thus we guar-
antee you positive relief or
you PAY NOTHING.
ASTOUNDING BENEFIT TO
CHILD
BALLADORAN.
stb October, 1935
The Manager,
Douglas Drug Co.
SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,
My little boy had gastric flu at the age
of 2 years and it left his nerves in a
shocking state. He was irritable, cranky
and had sleepless nights, also no appetite
I was amost worried out of my mind, as
I had tried several tonics and prescrip-
tions recommended by our family doctor,
which were of no avail.
My little boy has had one bottle and a
half of Bidomak and he looks the pic-
ture of health, and he is enjoying life.
You can use this letter in any way you
wish, and I’m sure anyone seeking the
help cannot go wrong with Bidomak.
Many thanks and best wishes for the
success Bidomak deserves.
1 am,
Your faithfully,
Mrs. G. F. McCarthy
(Original of this letter on our files.l
ALL
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
TWn on mi u t uT>y>,«yij~i Vrii i iVii’ l| l»' : : ; x ; A>'
0)d
w>x*.V
•Me;-
mmi
AS:
mm*
What to do
for
’FLU
Bidomak is not a cough remedy, not
a specific for colds, but, neverthe-
less, hundreds of sufferers from colds
and influenza report great benefit
from taking Bidomak. Bidomak
builds up the whole of the system,
in such a way that infection is fre-
quently avoided, or, even if a cold
or influenza is contracted, the attack
is not so severe because the vital
minerals in Bidomak make it pos-
sible for the body to deal with the
infective germs readily and natu-
rally. Bidomak is necessary at this
time of the year because bodily re-
sistance is lowered during the winter,
and it must be built up. Without the
minerals in Bidomak vitamins cannot
be made use of. That is another
important reason for taking Bidomak
during cold months.
AFTER ’FLU Bidomak benefits you
quickly, gets rid of that depress-
ing after-effect, prevents a relapse
and builds you up so rapidly that
bodily resistance is again restored
and renewed. Bidomak does this in
a perfectly natural way, is pleasant
to take and cannot possibly have any
ill-effect. Get a bottle of Bidomak
to-day from any chemist or store.
Take it to build up resistance against
winter colds and ’flu, or to restore
you to full health after an attack.
Amazing Benefits,
say users:
AFTER-EFFECTS OF ’FLU.
64 Wright’s Road,
Drummoyne, 25/7/’35.
Dear Sir, —
I can confidently recommend your
Bidomak to anyone suffering from weak-
ness and nervous debility or in a run-
down condition of health after ’flu.
Its effects, even after the first few
doses, are really magical.
Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) A.Q.
INFLUENZA.
71 Tenterden Road,
Botany.
Dear Sir, —
I am writing this letter to you with
one thought in view—that it may help
others, suffering as I have been with
influenza and run down in health, to
regain their health if they try your tonic,
Bidomak.
I have been nursing my mother at my
home she had a nervous collapse and
I became ill with influenza, and with so
many duties to do I could not go to bed.
A friend of the family advised me to try
Bidomak. I bought a bottle, and to my
surprise found I could carry on my duties
and not go to bed. It strengthened me
and made me feel very different indeed.
I am now on the second bottle, and I can
truthfully and sincerely state that 1 owe
my recovery to Bidomak.
You may use this letter to help others.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) V.M.B.
FELT HALF-SICK ALL THE
TIME.
Olive Road,
St. Peters,
Sth. Aust.
Dear Sir, —
About six weeks ago, before I started
taking Bidomak, I used to feel dizzy and
half-sick all the time. I was pale and life-
less. and I could not do my work. My
sister told me that I needed a tonic. She
recommended Bidomak because it con-
tained no drugs. I did the wisest thing in
my life when I decided to take her advice.
It took only three bottles to make me feel
fit and well again. It is a pleasure for
me to do the work once again and enjoy
doing it as I did years ago.
Yours faithfully,
(Miss) I.P.
Originals of all letters on our files.
DOUGLAS DRUG CO,
ADELAIDE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
=S
When a fellow is
TWENTY-THREE
WHEN a fellow is 23 he is apt to think that he
has the world by the tail. Life is too sweet and
crowded with fun for him to give heed to the
morrow that looks a long way off. That is understand-
able, but it is not wise. When a fellow is 23 he should
be laying the foundations of his estate; he should be
planning to be financially independent; he should
already have joined the A.M P. Society, and should have
started to build up his assets by taking out such policies
as his income permits.
A man of 23 years of age, in good health, can assure his life
in the A.M.P. for £5OO by making a quarterly investment of
£2/13/4. He doesn’t have to save all his life in the hope of
some day saving £500; he establishes the estate of £5OO and
pays for it afterwards.
A £5OO A.M.P. policy, accumulating annual bonus additions,
is a good start in asset-building for a young man. Later, when
a girl appears on the horizon, he can take out a further policy
and, perhaps, borrow from the Society to build a home. The
Society exists for men and women to use to the full.
Good advice to the fellow of 23 is this: Write to the Society
for a copy of “Investing in Happiness.” Read it —and take
the hint that is in it!
AMP. SOCIETY
C, A, ELLIOTT. F.1.A.,
Actuary.
W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
worth of machinery will go into it. A
new issue of 50,000 £1 shares will be put
out later on.
Recent movements in finances may he
seen in this table:
1932. 1935. 1936.
Capital £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . . . 54,359 64,424 88,599
Freeholds, etc. .. . . 55,167 56,143 52,014
Plant, etc 21,012 14,681 12,096
Stock 47,781 70,701 60,578
Debtors 48,596 38,089 37,165
Cash, investments, etc... 10,149 28,386 73.703
The reduction in plant valuation (£12,096,
down £2585 last term) suggests ample
provision for depreciation. Freeholds
are also down. Stocks were lower by
£10,123 last term, but debtors showed
little change.
Following the coming of the Savage
Government into office, the co. (like
Morris, Hedstrom, of Fiji) sold its hold-
ing of M.L. securities.' The item figured
at £10,767 in the previous balance sheet.
This development, the drop in stocks and
an increase of £24,175 in sundry credi-
tors “and income-tax appropriation”
(£88,599 altogether) were mainly respon-
sible for a lift of £56,000-odd in the cash
holding, which at £73,678 isn’t far short
of the outside debt.
This time last year the scrip was
around 50s. Recent political develop-
ments and the div. cut have brought the
price down to 435., at which figure the
yield is 3.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c, div. basis.
Visible net tangibles amount to 28s. 9d.
per share. The book values could prob-
able be stretched a bit without breaking
anything.
The Argus and Australasian, Ltd.
To relieve the pressure of outside debt
and provide fresh working capital, those
now interested in the old Wilson-Mac-
kinnon partnership in Melbourne have in-
vited the public in on very fair terms.
Slump, increased competition in the
“morning” field and the failure of the
“Star,” an evening journal published by
Wilson and Mackinnon from October,
1933, to April, 1936, were mainly respon-
sible for the debt.
The “Argus,” one of Australia’s leading
dailies, is the backbone of the business,
and has been for the last 90 years. The
“Australasian,” a weekly, has been in the
stable since the fifties of last century. It
was in the ’forties that Edward Wilson
became proprietor and editor of the
“Argus.” He was joined by Lauchlan
Mackinnon and Allan Sppwers during
the next decade; the business has since
remained largely in the hands of family
interests.
The present co. has been formed to
take over the old proprietary as a
going concern from March 31 last. It
is not proposed to make any radical
alterations in the policy or features of the
“Argus.”
Nominal capital is £1,000,000 in
£1 shares, divided into 150,000 6 p.c.
cum. prefs., participating to 8 p.c.,
150.000 5 p.c. non-cumulative preferred
ords., 600,000 ords. and 100,000 de-
ferred ords. The prefs. enjoy priority
as to capital and diyidend, and
have the right to advance with all other
shares from 6 p.c. to 8 p.c., but do not
further participate in surplus profits or
assets. The preferreds, which rank after
the prefs. but in front of the ords. and
deferreds for capital and a non-cumula-
tive 5 p.c., share rateably in surplus
profits and assets. The deferreds, to be
issued in payment for goodwill, rank for
dividend after the ords. have received 5
p.c., and will automatically become ords.
on April 1, 1943. Until then, they also
rank after the ords, for return of capital,
but participate rateably in surplus profits
and assets.
The whole of the prefs. and the pre-
ferred ords. are offered at par. The lot
has been underwritten by J. B. Were and
Son at and Is. a share respectively
(= £14,062). The underwriters have
exercised their right to take firm 100,000
shares in each class, leaving 50,000
of each immediately available to
the man in the street. Of the ords.,
George Fairbairn will take 30,000 for
cash, and 175,000 f.-ps. plus £5OOO cash
go to the vendors for net tangibles—
assets were revalued—together with
100.000 f.-p. deferreds for goodwill.
The £330,000 of cash-paid capital,
together with £18,473 expected from
realisations in connection with the “Star,”
will enable the co. to liquidate the over-
draft (£242,613), make cash payments of
£5OOO to the vendors and £51,125 to the
mortgagees (they are accepting another
£50,000 in f.-p. ords. in discharge of
the mortgage and accrued interest—
£lol,l2s), pay preliminary exes., etc.,
estimated at £20,000, and leave £29,735
for extra working capital.
When all the new money is in and pay-
ments mentioned made, paid capital will
be £655,000 in 150,000 prefs., 150,000
preferred ords., 255,000 ords. and 100,000
deferreds. There should be over £35,000
in cash to meet outside liabilities of
£22,934. Freehold figures at £260,625 ;
plant, £177,625 ; cable service, library,
etc., £15,000; stock, book debts, etc.,
£99,176 ; goodwill and preliminary exes.,
£120,000.
Leaving taxation and “Star” losses out
of the reckoning, net earnings of the old
business over the last dozen years com-
pare as follows:
1925 .. Profit £203,796 | 1931 .. Profit £2,488
1926 .. „ 169,146 1932 . . Loss 42G
1927 .. „ 130,583 1933 .. Profit 2,690
1928 . . „ 103,305 1934 . . „ 9,324
1929 . . „ 78,373 1935 . . „ 15,227
1930 .. „ 63,105 1936*. . „ 19,260
* Nine months to March 31, 1936.
Net profits for the last nine months
were £2760 more than a full year’s pref,
div. at 6 p.c. (£9000) plus 5 p.c. (£7500)
to the preferreds would call for. For
. the six months to the end of March, the
average net circulation of the “Argus’'
was 94,437, as against 92,998 for the pre-
ceding six months. Prospects of further
improvement in earnings are encourag-
ing. The net tangible cover is £3 11s. 4d.
prefs.’ and £2 1 Is. 4d. preferreds.
On the board are J. B. Aitken, George
Fairbairn, K. A. Henderson, G. D. Kelly,
Stan Ricketson and A. Spowers.
Prince George Gold Mine, Ltd., is
being formed in London to acquire an
auriferous derelict in the Marvel
Loch district (W.A.) for £12,600 cash and
a million fully-paid 2s. shares. The
public is asked for £135,000, and the co.
hopes to kick off with a working capital
of £102,000 sterling. According to the
prospectus, there is at least 1,000,000 tons
of 4dwt. ore above the 200 ft. level, and
working costs are not expected to exceed
15s. a ton. A man who ought to know
something about the property if he
doesn’t says the board, which includes
a director of Armstrong Whitworth, two
of Boulder Perseverance, one of the P.
and O. Co,, a couple of colonels and a
major, is more imposing than prospects
for the mine.
“0.8.,” after considering a Westralian
goldmine:
Triton has now got fairly into its stride,
and immediate indications are that shareholders
can count on receiving regular quarterly divs.
of ' 6d.' per share. The ore is free-milling,
reserves are , being steadily increased, and the
deepest workings are only a few hundred feet
vertically from the surface. The main shaft
is down close to the point where a diamond
drill cut about 17ft. of 12dwt. ore. Like the
man pushing the wheelbarrow, the co. has
practically everything ahead of it, including
whatever troubles there may be.
* $ ' * *
First Hit (W.A.) has paid its final in-
stalment of £50,000 (cash) purchase con-
sideration to the vendors, and is now
faced with the problem of earning
enough money to meet outgoings and
hand something to shareholders as well.
The property is being opened up in some
parts and diamond-drilled in others.
Additions have been made to the treat-
ment plant, and accumulated tailings will
soon be dealt with.
:jc * s\i *
Two Westralian goldmining amalga-
mations are being arranged in Adelaide.
Marvel Loch and Gt. Victoria United,
both on the Yilgarn field, are being
merged on the basis of the par value of
their respective issued capitals. On the
ML Margaret field, Mt. Margaret Mines
is selling its plant and leases to West-
ralia Renown for £7500 cash, and is
purchasing 440,000 Westralia Renown
shares at 6d. each. The idea in each
case is cheaper and more efficient
working.
* 4 *
Marble Bar, centre of the distant and
isolated Pilbara goldfield (W.A.), has just
been credited with another of the small
but many rich crushings that have been
obtained there in the last 40 years. The
field is noted for rich pockets and shoots
of short length and shallow depth.
*** * .
The Federal Government has notified
Freney Oil (W.A.) of its willingness to
subsidise on a pound-for-pound basis
further boring by the co. recently recom-
mended by geologist Dr. Wade. Even
with this proffered help it is doubtful
whether the co. can raise enough by calls
to do the job. Meanwhile, administration
expenses, etc., are making further in-
roads into the small bank balance.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.J.G.; Australia sells produce in England
at world prices, but in some cases (as with
sugar) receives a preference. Wool gets
none. The Australian preferential tariff on
British goods makes buying on the English
market more attractive (in many cases) to the
Australian importer; otherwise there is little
difference to speak of between “English” and
“world” prices. The importer, subject to
duties and embargoes, buys where he gets the
best value... .Inquirer: Have no information
on No. 1, and none on No. 2 since it went into
liquidation J.W.G.: Don’t know co. by
that name. The industry seems to be in an
unattractive position... .Austral: A trade
balance “favorable” to a country exists where
the country’s exports are valued at a higher
figure than its imports J.C.: It is a change
of name. The shares are quoted at around
38s. in Sydney, still as “Cranwells.” For
balance-sheet review, see B. 20/11/’35.....
Ajax (J.F.R.): Worth holding. Gordon and
Gotch ords. or Yarra Falls (Melb.) might be
more stable in the long run.... No. 14: You
are liable, apparently... .AJ.H.: Try Lamp-
lough and Wharton, Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, Pitt-street, Sydney... .Optic: (1) By
dredging deeper the life of the property looks
like being lengthened; that is about all that
can be said definitely at present. (2) Stick to
Guinea Gold, or try Lancefield... .1.W.H.: A
sound selection; sit tight.. ‘ .C.A.: You are
liable for the balance, but, as far as we know,
the co. isn’t taking legal action on account of
lapses; let the holding g0....J.P.: A private
co., with no regular market for the shares.
Can’t put a value on them without seeing a
balance sheet J.A.H.: (1) It is a first-class
office. (2) An estimate ; if present bonus rates
are maintained it should be realised. (3) There
is little to choose.... J.A.8.: W. H. Paling and
Co. —issued and paid capital, £389,321 in
432,579 ords. fully paid to 18s. Nicholson’s
Investments, Ltd.-paid capital, £219,114 in
140,233 fully-paid £1 ords. and 105,175 ords.
paid to 15s. Beale and Co. —£205,000 in
210,000 f.-p. 10s. ords. and 100,000 £1 prefs.
Others are private cos. For directorates, see
volume of “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” this office.
A . .L.J.M.: Sell on the first sign of a better
market in each case... .C.H.R.: Write to the
liquidator, F. H. Norton, 19 O’Connell-street,
Sydney T.H.C.: No prospects Assur-
ance: (1) Apparently. Surrender values are
generally on the low side. (2) No. (3) Yes.
W.E.: Value doubtful, and not likely to
be much....R. Rampant; (1) You may find
difficulty in selling the shares for the 475. 6d.
you paid, but there was recently a market for
them at 365. on Sydney ’Change. (2) The cir-
cular is propaganda. Depends on the condi-
tions under which you bought J.R.A.:
Hang to present holdings.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Apvr,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes nf
lifts, and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt. :
# * * .*
ALUMINOFERRIG is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.—Advt.


s
LU
| |»
I
mm
Hi
m
IB
m
: ■ ; , V :
', . '
Em
78C5E-2-6.


ABORIGINALITIES
“P.M.”: Big trees? The biggest in
Gippsland (Vic.) was felled by mill-
hands near Leongatha some years ago.
It fell right across a stock track, and,
proving a poor bargain for the mill, as
it was hollow, the inside being big
enough for a horseman to ride along
in, it was abandoned there. Next day
a flock of ewes with lambs at foot was
driven along the track. The tree block-
ing their accustomed course, the dogs lost
their bearings and drove the sheep into
the log. Next morning the drover went
in looking for them. It took him so
much time chasing the sheep out of the
knot-holes that a search party was sent
out for him. They had to bind his eyes
before they brought him, weak and
emaciated, out into the strong sunlight.
* * * ❖
“J.F.P.”: The new city owner of the
run, riding round on general inspec-
tion, came on one of the station
rabbiters slipping the coat off bunny. He
was half-way through a pile of 300,
poisoned; carcasses were being popped
into a large hole and skins into a bag.
“Why go to the trouble of skinning the
rabbits if they are to be buried?” asked
the new proprietor.
“Granova”: The city girl was being
shown over the station woolshed. After
the fittings and machinery had been ex-
plained to her she saw a woolly sheep-
skin hanging on a rail. “I can under-
stand all the rest of it,” she said brightly,
“but what do you do with the carcasses
of the sheep after you have shorn them?”
* ❖ * *
“C.V.S.”: Walking to my tram in Mel-
bourne’s very respectable suburb of Haw-
thorn, I was carried in a flash back to
the land of bough sheds and Mitchell
grass by an old familiar sight in an in-
congruous setting. Squatting on his
swag, methodically fanning his battered
hat at a little fire in the gutter, an old
bagman was cooking his breakfast. He
seemed to have brought with him the
very scent of the gidya, and my imagina-
tion transformed the trickle of water into
a creek channel, while coolabahs rose
out of the bitumen roadway. I wanted
to squat by the fire and yarn ; but the
tram came clanging along—and there
were no coolabahs. Work that day was
irksome.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: For corroboration on the
penetrating power of the h.v. .22 long
bullet ask my father. He was in his
workshop the day I fired at it. That
shop had double sheets of corrugated
galvanised iron on the walls. The bullet
pierced the near wall, whispered in dad’s
ear, went on across a 12ft. space and
cleanly penetrated the second double
wall. Range of shot, about 25ft. ; range
of dad’s leap, from workbench to open
air ; range of my flight—well, certainly
much longer than a .22.
* * * *
“L.W.”: The recently - mentioned
shearer who threw away his sweat-rag
and hung up the Jamb was luckier than
a chap who, when “short-line fishing” in
a deep pool, made the same sort of mis-
take. He lit the fuse and, mind and eye
intent on the movements of the fish,
threw the match with great accuracy
directly among them while still holding
the dynamite in his hand. The funeral
cost £42 10s.
* * ❖ *
“Kelly”: Has any Aboliar ever shot
a king crow? His Maj. isn't distinguish-
able by foliage, sound or size. A man
only knows he’s committed lese-majeste
by the actions of deceased’s subjects.
When an ordinary crow thuds the others
clear out for an hour or so. But with a
king it’s differerft. As he gives his final
“ca-a-r-k” the hurry-up call sounds from
those within hearing. For miles black
strings of crows come hurrying to the
wake. They perch about the fellow on
the ground, and will risk being shot in
the process. Then they line the trees and
sing anthems. After a few minutes of
that they clear out, and thereafter no
crow will come near the spot for about
a fortnight.
“Fantimus”: I doubt whether the crow
is debited with more than his share of
devilry, despite his good work as a
cleaner-up of carrion. The omnivorous
old pest will stop at nothing. He had
“ Gripes , Elsie, it's ’ardly Worth w'ile sheerin' y' now We've lorst the
Japanese market."
just about ruined our crop of corn in
young cob and, to draw him off, we
offered him a dead calf. But he preferred,
the vegetarian diet and the fun of tearing
open hundreds of cobs to let the first rain
rot them. When we opened fire with the
old breech-loader he called off his black
gang and harshly cursed us from a dis-
tant gum. Several days later the cows
refused to drink at the windmill trough.
Investigation disclosed putrid offal in the
water. Kelly was getting even with us
for insulfing him.
“Corbie”: No question about Ameri-
cans eating crow nowadays (B. 24/6/’36).
I have just received a copy of “Outdoor
Life,” another American monthly de-
voted to hunting and other field sports.
This shows a photograph of a huge pile
of neatly-plucked and -trussed birds with
a caption explaining that they were crows
which were to furnish the game course
for a banquet in Boulder City, Colorado.
It is added that “the flavor is that of blue-
winged teal, only juicier and a little
richer.” There seems a suggestion here
for the South Australian centenary ban-
quet.
* * * *
“Billycan”: As an observer of the peli-
can since childhood —mine, not the peli-
can’s —I cannot swallow the tale (B.
24/6/’36) that he robs seagulls of the
fish they have just caught. Frigate birds
and many of the robber gulls do this,
but the huge and stately—on the wing—-
pelican is quite incapable of such a job,
even if the nimble gull was mug enough
to let the big fellow capture him. As lor
being lumbering in flight I nominate the
pelican and the South African aasvogel
as being the stateliest birds on the wing
J have seen, giving in several brands of
e ag!e.
*■ * *
“Bryan”; Potassium cyanide is cer-
tainly a fast worker. In a northern
N.S.W. electroplating works an em-
ployee had been handling the cyanide,
and without bothering to wash his hands
rolled himself a cigarette. Before he had
taken a dozen puffs he was out to it.
* =i= * *
“Colon”: “Woorak ’ (B. 24/6/ 36)
must have met all his rabbits in an
Oxford-street ham and beef shop or he
would have known how bunny keeps his
overcoat free from burrs. The house-
hold tabby and he perform their toilet
in much the same manner, and Ive yet
to see a burred-up cat.
“Peppermint Gum”: It looks as it
N.S.W. will have the distinction of being
the first Australian State to wipe out the
koala. Noel Burnett, who runs the private
sanctuary for the little chaps near Syd-
ney, says that there are probably not
more than 100 wild bears alive in N.S.W.
to-day. As State politicians make no
effort to save them, in ten years’ time the
unique creatures will probably be ex-
tinct in the senior State. In Queensland
at least prospects are better; large
numbers of bears are still to be found
in some parts of the State. There is
reason, too, to believe they will increase
if vote-chasing Governments do not
declare another murderous open season
as they did some years ago, when 587,000
adult bears were slain. Districts in
Queensland where bears have not been
seen for years now report them in
numbers.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Although mining as
a hazardous pursuit hardly ranks nowa-
days with “pedestrian crossing the road,”
death still springs from unexpected
places. Within the last year a Golden
Mile platman, leaning momentarily out
into the shaft, was struck and killed by
a small stone falling a thousand feet or so
from the ascending skip. An engineer,
reconditioning a long-unworked mine,
was shattered by the 500 ft. fall of a 141 b.
weight which for perhaps thirty years had
served as counterbalance to the knocker
line; the bolt that had held it in
position becoming slowly unscrewed. A
miner, after working a shift in a new
pair of hobnailed boots, slipped on the
smooth steel floor of the ascending cage
and. as the timbering caught him and
dragged him beneath the latticed door,
clutched at the legs of a mate and pulled
him also to his death. Bailing out a long-
disused mine near Coolgardie two men
descended the ladders to dislodge the
bucket, caught in the timbering. Over-
come by unsuspected fumes (a lighted
candle had previously been lowered and
had burned well) they fell and were
drowned. The manager, anxious at their
silence, went down—to meet a like fate.
The fumes? Sulphuretted hydrogen.
Soluble in water and therefore unde-
tectable by the lighted candle test, but
when disturbed by the bailing as deadly
as choke damp.
-i” J|' -i-
-“Duckwing”; Pleasant to note that a
fine old sport which has been discouraged
in Australia of late years has received a
meed of recognition from abroad. A
recent shipment from Sydney to Tahiti
was a gamecock from a noted Sydney
strain, engaged to fight in the July 14
celebrations in the French possession. A
Sydney bird shipped last year fought his
way through all opposition to the cham-
pionship of Tahiti, and this has turned
attention to Sydney strains. They are
supposed to be untried in battle, but, as
a matter of fact, cocking is still prac-
tised in retired Sydney suburbs, Sundays
being the favorite day for a main. A
century or so ago more money was lost
and won on cockfighting than on horse-
racing or even at hazard. One thing
may be said in favor of cocking also.
In no other “blood sport” can the prin-
cipal performers be truly said to heartily
enjoy their job, let coursing men and fox-
hunters say what they will.
* * =i= *
“Palmdale”: Residents of the Lower
Kalgan River, Albany (W.A.), are pos-
sessors of the only infallible bush-
weather prophet, in fine weather black
swans are never seen above the Lower
Kalgan bridge ; but two days before bad
weather, with unfailing regularity, the
stately birds move above the bridge, a
scant hundred yards from their usual
haunt. The movement affords no in-
creased shelter.
“R.X.8.”: Weather prophets? Frogs
are pretty good if you know your frogs.
Kookaburras are frauds. But all ants are
reliable, and the more energetic they are
the more rain there will be. Fresh-water
fish will hang about the surface of the
water before rain, evidently to get the
insects to be knocked in by raindrops.
And if rain is coming many flowers have
a stronger scent.
* * * =i=
“Fisher's Ghost”: “Gryllus” should
take a closer look at his wasps and an
anatomical diagram of a funnel-web
spider before asserting that one sting
paralyses them (B. 3/6/’36). Actually,
several stings are necessary to make a
permanent living mummy of any spider.
The wasp starts at the head and works
down through the various plexi until
every nerve-centre is out of action. What
gives rise to the belief of instantaneous
outing is that the first prod has an effect
like that of hitting homo sapiens on the
“mark.” But the results are no more
enduring, and the spider has to stay in
the nest for some time before consump-
tion.
•I* <!• V,
“Heresohe”: Cases of lamb-eating
eaglehawks and bee-eating rainbow-birds
(B. 3/6/’36) should be considered on
their merits. Some eaglehawks take to
lambs or poultry with such vim that they
will hardly eat anything else, but I have
examined several nests in lamb paddocks
which contained only remains of hares,
cats, snakes and similar vermin. Other
birds do not care for meat till it has
reached the stage known as “prime.” It
is all a matter of individual taste.. In
the same way a few rainbow-birds or
wood-swallows may sometimes take up
quarters round a beehive. The thing
then is to get them before they bag the
last bee, but it is foolish to wage war on
the whole tribe.
“Plankton”: Despite “Notaden’s”
championship of the rainbow-bird, this
“bee-eater” did not get its second name
for nothing. Mangrove-trees are sources
of nectar for native and other bees, hence
the birds’ attraction to them. In point
of coloring, form and flight, this bird is
probably the most beautiful of all our
Australian avifauna, but, even so, exami-
nation of the stomach contents of num-
erous specimens have revealed to me little
else save the remains of many honey-
bees. These birds are cunning, too, and
will snap up only nectar-laden bees re-
turning to the hives.
* * ♦ *
“Chelaka”: The oyster’s deadliest
enemy is the starfish, which accounts for
millions of bivalves yearly. Its sucker-
armed tentacles open the shell quickly.
Half an inch is sufficient. The starfish pro-
trudes an expanding stomach that works
its way into the bivalve and gradually
spreads like a film over the succulent
meal, digesting its victim in a few
minutes.
DRY-PLANTING.
We're planting the wheat, and we’re planting it
dry,
And we hope and pray for the best;
There's a streak of red in the eastern sky,
And a streak of grey in the west.
And the farmers say, whenever, we meet,
And whenever they’re passing by,
“Well, what are you doing about your wheat?
I reckon we’re planting dry.”
Some say, “No rain till the next full moon;
We’re due for a rotten spin.”
Some say, “The weather is breaking soon;
I’m drilling my wheat-seed in.”
And we answer yes and we answer no,
With a wary look at the sky;
And the prophets come and the prophets go,
But we’re planting the paddocks dry.
There are anxious hearts on the Darling
Downs;
There is many a shaking head;
There are brows deep-furrowed with worried
frowns,
And souls beset with dread,
The dread of drought and the dread of debt,
And the haunting fear of defeat;
And yet, however by fear beset,
We are planting—planting the wheat.
We have done our best with harrow and
plough
To conquer the stubborn clods;
The fields are fertile; the rest lies now
In the hands of the wayward gods.
And we pray that the rain may not fall too
late
Where the waiting wheat-seeds lie;
Indeed and in truth we are tempting fate,
But—we’re planting the paddocks dry!
QUEENSLAND.
L. D. O'NEIL.


“Old-timer”: How about a symposium
on our most astonished moments? One
of mine was the day old Darkie ran a
rabbit into a hollow log that had its
other end under water in a billabong. I
had squatted down to peer into the hole
when, with a panicky squeal, the rabbit
leapt into my arms. Hot on its tail
came an outsize in water-rats which
stayed not to greet me, but-kept on going
from the big black snake that was not
more than a foot behind it! Darkie and
I looked at each other as only a dog and
his master may look and be understood ;
then we departed.
* ❖ $ *
“Roller” : Some fiend in human form-
er it might have been a jealous radio
crooner —shook the Ornithological As-
sociation to its claws in Sydney by
poisoning a number of canaries ex-
hibited at the Town Hall. Everybody
concerned, including the C.1.D., is
naturally all in a twitter, since there is no
knowing but that the ruffian may extend
his activities to members of the associa-
tion, which must not be confused with
the Poultry-keepers’ Union. There is
the financial aspect also. Many of these
birds, imported from Germany and
Britain, bring much higher prices than
you or I would if put in a cage with seed
and water and told to sing “The Music
Goes Round and Round.”
* * * *
“W.N.G.”: Add to scrub-fellers’ monu-
ments (B. 20/5/’36) the stump of a moun-
tain-ash left by Charlie Wall, who neatly
cut the head off that tall vegetable 130 ft.
from the ground without springboards
or similar contraptions. The feat was
witnessed by a large gathering at the
“ Ain't y' cornin' ashore with us, Joe?"
“ No —I goiter finish a letter to the missus."
Balook sports of 1934, and was a spec-
tacular piece of axemanship. The tree
was growing in a patch of forest adjoin-
ing Bulga Park, South Gippsland (Vic.).
Scoffers are invited to climb up and test
the measurement personally. Wall simply
used a few feet of light, strong rope
and iron ankle spikes strapped to
his boots, the axe carried in his
belt. Passing the rope around the trunk
and clapping his legs against it, he
ascended, native-bear fashion, up the
clean, straight trunk. Then he secured
himself just below the branching head
of the tree. When the severed head left
the trunk, the back swing and sway of
that high stump was considerable. It
ceased ; Wall calmly lit a cigarette and
descended.
* * » *
“Granova”: International questions
are freely discussed in our N.S.W. wheat-
and-sheep district. Hearing a farmer
refer to the Abyssinians in his crop, I
listened awhile and found that he had
found a new name for the black oats.
* * * *
“Ramon”: For years a mysterious im-
pulse, variously attributed to spots on
the sun (or elsewhere), has set aside June
as the official opening month for a phan-
tom-like beast to prowl around Victoria.
It made its 1936 debut at Briagolong.
It is about three feet high and leaves
tracks about six feet long. The mystery
animal’s call begins with a moaning or
crooning sound and ends in a crescendo
of coughs like a lion or tiger.
Briagolong is now trying to
solve the mystery by the process
of elimination. Investigators have
dismissed the idea of the animal
being a buffalo, rhino or giraffe,
as the “phantom” is partial to
devouring sheep—whole ones at
that. Period probably disqualifies a
dinosaur, diprotodon or mastodon.
Cynics dismiss the mystery lightly by
nominating a big dingo with a cold as
the culprit. Warrigal must certainly have
a bad cold to rip out noises like a
crooner’s.
❖ * * ❖
“Kerriki”: I sighted the monstrous
goanna from a distance sunning himself
on a log, and let him have the contents
of a Winchester magazine, but drew only
splinters by way of result. Closer inves-
tigation revealed a painted go., and the
next bend an advt. for a well-known
salve. Practically every stump and log
for three miles was decorated with a
crawler, and the artistry was so good
that I let a live one go before pulling
out of the trance. If the artist who did
that job on the Uralla-Bellingen road
(N.S.W.) is still on deck, I hope that the
bushfires haven’t desecrated his handi-
work, as I’d like a few Aboliars to get
caught too.
“Banana”: Of all those who are pes-
tered by visiting city folk, I place the
fruitgrower and the fisherman an easy
first. I know —I’ve been both. The city
visitor thinks he has the right to chew
any fruit he sees growing ; moreover, he
thinks he is conferring a favor by eating
your profits. He replies to objections
with the bland statement that it cost us
nothing to grow the fruit. The unfortu-
nate fisherman is up against a harder
problem. Everyone expects to get some
of his catch, and they think the fisher-
man is amply repaid by giving it away:
“Look at all the fun you had catching
“Drift”; The bandicoot is unpopular
in N.Q., and further on in the Torres
Strait islands. Because of the havoc he
wreaks among yam, manioc and taro
gardens he is anathema to Binghi, and
he has not even the saving grace bf being
edible, for the Hindu’s abhorrence of
the flesh of swine is surpassed only by
"Only a tablespoon of blood an bone. What's the use?"
"I'm mixin' it in me missus's face powder—she busied them two bottles
I brought home!"
island Binghi’s repulsion for anything
furred as a diet. Native crews on luggers
have jibbed at tinned rabbit as stores, de-
claring “that pfeller all-same pussee-cat.”
But it’s a mystery how the bandy made
the 40-mile hop over water from the
mainland.
“Ennbee”; The killer, that valuable
handyman of the whaling fraternity, is
regarded in the coastal abo.’s mythology
as the reincarnation of his departed
brethren —and woe betide any one, black,
white or brindle, who dares lay an offen-
sive hand on them. One visitor to Two-
fold Bay (N.S.W.) fired a rifle at one
stranded in the surf, and it took the
combined efforts of the whites at hand
to save him from the frenzy of outraged
abos.
-I' #
“Ned Kelly”: I chose him from a
litter of pups because his full brown eye
promised the intelli-
gence that marked the
character of his cattle-
dog mother. Time
proved me right. He
was a loyal companion
to the youngsters, a lov-
able, friend to the
missus. There was
almost a human quality
in the way every atom
of his slim, blue-black
body strained to under-
stand me when I spoke.
At seven months he
took it upon himself to
bring home the cow
each afternoon at milk-
ing time. Hearing a
curious noise at the
door the other evening,
I opened it to find a
very sick pup. I shall
never forget his look of
relief, which plainly
said “All’s well now,”
when he saw me. In
less than a minute he
was rigid. I adminis-
tered salt in large quan-
tities, and covered him
warmly. No good;
within 15 minutes he
was dead. Next morn-
ing 1 learned that the bait-planter had
been at work. It's hard to fathom the
mind that could conceive the idea. Yet
it seems a practice in every country town
-—and Australians arc supposed to be
dog-lovers.
“Jindivick”: Maoriland cow-cockies
must use very wide-necked milkeans if
a youngster could fall into one and stick
(B. 10/6/’36). The feat would be quite
impossible with cans such as Australian
dairymen use, and even these are wider
than they were a few years ago when I
was at school. As we were returning from
our hall of learning some churns of milk
in the railway-station yard caught our eye.
The cobber stood on tiptoe and pushed
his face down into the milk. When he’d
had his fill he found that he could not
withdraw his head because his ears were
too big. I went to the station-master for
assistance. That worthy brought forth a
horsewhip and administered summary
chastisement to a howling, helpless dis-
ciple of the “Drink More Milk” move-
ment, before a terrific struggle saved
him from drowning.
“Molar”: An old Mt. Gambier (S.A.)
. stockman boasted to me that he had
never visited a dentist; he “takes ’em
out meself.” He lies on his bunk and
removes the offending fang with his
tobacco knife.
“Saddle-flap’*: Can’t agree that the
sparrow has overrun non-tropical Aus-
tralia. He’s a town-dweller, and only a
country resident in good rainfall districts.
He’s rarely found outback. I’ve never
seen him in s.-w. Queensland, western
N.S.W. or around Oodnadatta (S.A.).
Along the Murray River around Euston
(N.S.W.), which is a bird paradise, there
are no sparrows even at the homesteads,
Euston station excepted. There a few
spriggies live hard by the station’s aviary
and burgle the birdseed.
❖ * # ❖
“Erka”: If the report of a recent trial
at Port Moresby is any criterion, the
Papuan natives’ senses of smell and hear-
ing are slipping. The accused, in com-
pany with five others, went pig-hunting,
and, hearing what he thought was a fine
specimen of pork, drove his spear in the
direction of the grunt. To his horror he
found that the spear had killed his uncle,
who had unluckily chosen the site of the
pig-net for a sleep. The jury accepted
his plea that the sleeper’s snores and the
darkness of the night misled him into
thinking he had speared a pig.
“K.C.”: Touching on the obstetrics of
marsupials, the first shot in the con-
troversy was fired by Pelsart, whose ship
the Batavia struck on Houtman’s
Abrolhos (W.A.) in 1629. The seven-
teenth-century rover observed:
We found in these islands large numbers
of a species of cats, about the size of a
hare, with short forepaws and a long
tail. The young grow up in a
pouch below the mother’s belly, with
the nipples in their mouths. We have
seen young ones lying there which were
only the size of a bean, though perfectly
proportioned, , so that it seems certain that
they grow there out of the nipple of the
mamma:, from which they draw food
until they are grown up and are able to
walk. They creep into the pouch even
when they have become very large, and
the dam runs off with them when they are
hunted.
There is no doubt that this account refers
to the Dama wallaby, which is still quite
plentiful on the islands.
A BUSHLAND BALLAD.
In lonely camps by the track or stream,
Better to me than the starry skies
Is a mate’s face in the fire’s gleam
And a long yarn when the curlew cries,
And one who would start for the earth’s rim
At a sign from me, when the clouds brim,
At the sunrise.
Bring me no flowers from the bushland-’s store,
No golden blossoms the wattle bore,
But a cheery smile for the long mile
That lies before.
1 know the trees where the parrots hide
And the noisy minah’s wild notes ring:
But the whip’s crack when the boys ride
And the word of cheer where the teams
swing
Are merrier sounds on the bushland track
Than all the songs that the laughing-jack
And the magpie sing.
Bring me no books that the wise send;
But a long drink at the road’s bend,
A laughing jest and a long rest
At the day’s end.
When magpies flute at the end of day,
Across the stubble the wind blows sweet,
And you catch the scent of the new-mown hay;
And you hear the sounds of the hoof’s beat
Come clattering over the bushland track
To the merry yarns in the old shack
Where the boys meet.
Bring me no sighs at the Last Gate,
When the light dies and the hour’s late,
But a firm lip and the strong grip
Of a bushland mate.
S.A.
LORIS NAIRN.


wTs
LYS
£
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
i*c 3
•>
■ .
, ~ ... .. _' *'< *
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED-
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
be round 3s. For harvesting, a special
comb and spirals are needed, and only
the header can be used. C onversion,
however? is rapidly done ancl costs £2O to
£3 q/ The w heat-comb gear, of course,
may be replaced at any time without
trouble.
Dairymen who grow good, grainy
crops of oats can sow their own field
P<=as with the oats and cut the issue with
the binder A seeding ot 251 b to 301 b
of peas and 601 b. of Algerian oats gives
a g P r£at » shandy » mixtu re, which may
be p Ld through the chaffcutter-winnower
an d retrieve the peas with the oats for
subsequent crushing,
Treatment of cow crops in this way
can easily double the food value of the
winter ration, and also help to start the
growing of peas in other States on as
large a scale as in S. Australia.
Marking the Drop.
~R om N „. |f when the catcher pre .
sents u , 0 the markerj the , amb is stung
. Lbc ear pliers it immediately begins to
stra j n _ making castration less swift and
precise. Far better to castrate first, while
be ( amß j s quiescent. Tell “Kelpie” that
Winter Pasture Care.
“Stump Jump”: It is a mistake to Sup-
pose that work on perennial-pasture plots
should cease in the cold months. it
is necessary then to maintain a loose
mulch of trash covering the ground so
that beneficial bacteria can go straight
ahead when the warm weather arrives.
Lenient treatment in stocking and plenty
of pasture harrowing are vital; one
stroke each month of the latter is not too
much.
As for composition, the all-too-com-
mon overstocking caused by poor pro-
vision of dry-fodder as extra winter
rations will affect a pasture greatly.
Clovers don’t mind close grazing very
much so far as permanence is concerned,
but they do suffer in vigor. Not so much
as the ryes, however, which are true
winter-spring plants.
It is ridiculous to expect a rye pasture
to shoot away as soon as warmth arrives
if for the three months before it has been
eaten right down to its roots. Actually,
ryes and phalaris must never be cropped
shorter than 6in. or Bin. if they are ex-
pected to maintain their 60 per cent,
dominancy over clover in the ideal
pasture.
Again, winter months are ideal for
working manure piles into useful mulch.
They dry too quickly in summer, but,
being wet and soft from May onwards,
they can be treated successfully with
chain or tripod harrows. A lot of
manure can also be carted from the cow-
yard and surroundings to be distributed
over and harrowed into pastures.
Finally, half the super, is best applied
in midwinter, because it is dissolved
readily by dew or rain and is absorbed
into the plant systems, strengthening
them against cold and preparing them to
grow straight ahead in the spring. In-
cidentally, if winter growth is wanted,
lewt. of sulphate will work wonders to
grasses in perennial pastures.
Why Not More Field Peas?
“Stump Jump”: Reference by “Kandy"
(B. 24 /6 / ’36) to the Tangier pea makes
me wonder why the common field pea is
not more popular.
Only two reasons can be advanced —
the high cost of seed and the difficulty of
harvesting the crop. It has a food-value
analysis of 19 p.c. to 22 p.c. protein-
something most dairymen have been
looking for. There should be a possi-
bility of a big trade in peas, with wheat-
land farmers producing harvested grain
and selling it to coastal dairymen.
Good peas, well crushed, are twice as
rich as cereal grains, being almost the
equal of linseed itself pound for pound.
A factor in keeping the price of peas
down would be the added value of the
harvested pea-stubble, which when com-
pletely dry in midsummer is estimated
to contain from 4 p.c. to 6 p.c. protein.
It is unrivalled for fattening lambs in
drv country, and also for conditioning
breeding ewes.
Pea fodder lasts better than cereal
stubble.
But the cost of seed is too high—4s. 6d.
to ss. per 501 b. bushel. It should and could
You don't seem to have much to do, Jacky."
“Plenty to do Dig. ; no time to do it in!"
if the docking is properly done (by pinch-
ing back the skin and compressing the
veins above the knife) there should not
be a “profusely bleeding tail” (B.
1/7/ ’36).
Only a newchum would drop marked
lambs into a paddock, where the strong
would immediately light out for the
horizon. Far better to drop them in a
yard next the ewes, so that they will
make for the dividing rail and settle
down to rest. Rest stops the bleeding,
activity increases it.
It is a simple matter to clean and dis-
infect the yards beforehand. Lambs in
a paddock where there are no ewes can’t
be prevented from scattering—young
orphans won’t herd like grown sheep.
Of course, if “K.’s” “paddock” is,only
about a square chain in area, that part of
his argument is sound.
Nature provides quadrupeds with tails
to cover susceptible parts. While the ewe
has a bit of tail over those parts she can
protect them ; wool doesn’t grow on the
inside of the tail. Deprive her of that
protection and you'll pay for it.
Carcass Treatment.
“Granova”: Graziers who think that
they are checking blowfly by burying
carcasses without treatment should study
the results of a test made by the C.S.I.R.
One half of a sheep was exposed to
blowflies for two days and then buried
under two feet of loose soil. The other
half was left exposed for five days, and
then taken to an insectary but not buried.
Flies emerging from each half were
counted and examined.
About 7000 primary flies emerged
from the first half, but no secondary
flies. About 2500 primary flies and
1000 secondary flies emerged from the
second half. As secondary flies are the
strongest natural check on primary flies,
the lesson is obvious. Deeper burial is
useless, as maggots have emerged from
carcasses buried under ten feet of
trodden-down soil.
A mixture made by dissolving 31b.
of arsenate of soda in 30gals. water,
poured into the carcass, will turn it into
a poison bait. Some graziers provide
drums of the solution in each paddock,
as it is impossible to carry enough on
horseback.
Sprinkling the carcass with arsenical
sheep-dip powder will turn it into a bait
that will attract flies for a longer period.
As this method costs only 6d. per sheep
and the station-hands can carry supplies
around with them it seems to be the best.
The Danish Way.
“E.H.M.”: A few more pertinent facts
about Denmark (B. 1/7/’36).
Denmark, with a total area of 16,000
square miles, has 3,400,000 acres under
crop. It has 950,000 acres under oats
against Australia’s 1,400,000 acres, 900,000
acres of barley against Australia’s 470,000
acres, and in all crops except rye it
turns off something more than a ton of
grain to the acre. Most of the land is
not to be compared with the Atherton,
the Comboyne, the Manning, Bacchus
Marsh or Orbost.
Yet marrying its agriculture to its
stock industry, Denmark carries as many
dairy cattle (3,200,000) as Australia, four
times as many pigs—4,400,000 against
our million and a bit—a third as many
horses and about 7,000,000 more poultry,
it has exported £44,000,000 (sterling)
worth of butter, bacon and eggs in a
single year.
Denmark’s stock industries, based on
agriculture, are worth as much to the
little country as Australia’s great sheep
industry in a fairly normal year. Nothing
is wasted, and products can therefore be
used for stock feeding on a low-cost
basis impossible under our system
In Australia, production costs are too
high for a variety of reasons. Farms, as
a rule, are too large. Interest has to be
paid on investment in areas which carry
nothing but weeds and pests, or which
are cropped with grass to feed a hungry
and unproductive herd. Such herds
might be payably reduced in numbers
by improving the quality of animals, and
farms contracted by judicious use of fer-
tilisers, whose absence leads to regular
deterioration in carrying capacity and the
ploughing of unnecessary acres.
There is great scope for expansion of
production on unused, supposedly worn-
out and pest-ridden land within Aus-
tralia’s 300-mile-wide coastal and sub-
coastal belt. Production of stock and
stock products could be increased fifty-
fold by allying the pastoral and agricul-
tural industries on a reasonable basis.
Closer Settlement in N.S.W.
It was recently admitted by the N.S.W.
Government (1) that it had received
applications from 2000 men who want
farms, and (2) that not' one closer-settle-
ment block had been made available in a
twelvemonth. J. E. Jelbart, of Jindera,
recently discussed the position in a lec-
ture reported by the Albury “Banner.”
He recalled that an Act embodying
recommendations of shire councillors—
all land men —for closer-settlement had
been passed at the end of 1932 —and
pigeonholed.
Mr. Jelbart is nevertheless of the
opinion that “in Wade’s Closer Settle-
ment Promotion Act we have a measure
which with a very few additions would
adequately provide for any closer-settle-
ment scheme the State desires to embark
upon.”
In Mr. Jelbart’s opinion, four sorts
of settlement should be considered; (1)
Wheat- and sheep-farming on suitable
land ; about 640 acres is necessary. (2)
Mixed farming: fat-lamb raising and
dairying, on 250 acres or 300 acres. (3)
Dairying and pig-raising, 50 to 100 acres,
according to water supply and fertility of
soil. (4) Workmen’s-home farms, 10 to
20 acres.
Against (1) is the fact that “at least
£2OOO is required.” Again, “the tariff
amendments have very seriously inter-
fered with our trade in countries which
are very necessary markets.”
No. 2 offers better prospects. “On such
farms a man and a boy can be very fully
engaged, and gross return may be any-
(Continued on page 24.)


*
mm
111
m
Si
mm
Si®#-
W&ssMMm
■
■
n
n
m
' : ■ ;•;
' Vx
MB
I
SiHnHHHI
■n
»x
.
9B :
V
HHH
HHPHI
I
■
m
mmm
, 1 . f.^fc ;; ti-''>J
HH
:.x - :
SO ''
«£3 $• •? sssggsgs **?>' •as
'j
/S!
/
i.
-*!
V
■
i4r I ®g gg I *
w
■
,
JSBli
■
iff
?■■;
■
»
■
1
fflW
:.;/■ ■ .v
■I
■
m
•*wm/
■
. ' <<yr
(7* :r .Jh
'A
«
■
■
JP
■Till B S w
- *
»: *Fm
f w
ag? j|
./..../j
[ ,r
HS ....<
...
.
n -
i ■■ 6^*"" *
Hi I
k
, ■


DELIGHTFUL TO
WEAR
is this robust, hardweaiing shoe.
Strong and pliant, yet shapely.
Abbeys build into all their shoes
the best materials obtainable, in
addition to skilled workmanship
which has become a tradition.
This shoe is made of strong Calf,
and is stocked in full and hair
sizes.
ABBEY POEISH, '6"d. PER TIN,
FOB A BETTER SHINE.
BLACK CALF - - - 29/6
BROWN CALF - - - 29/6
WRITE FOR LATEST ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY. W.A.
Stuart (trystal
The quality and brilliance of Stuart Crystal,
each piece the creation of master craftsmen,
is matched only by the finest diamonds.
English hand- made crystal. The name
Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
Sole Representatives
(wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.
317-23 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
m
i
m
HH
3EI
LICK
VIT
%
THEY
ALL.
WANT
IT
er dh
k
• “RED ORB" Corrugated
Sheets for Roofing
• “BLUE ORB" Corrugated
Sheets; for General Use
and for Curving
• LYSAGHT'S SPECIAL
SHEETS for Tank-making
e "QUEEN'S HEAD" Plain
Galvanized Sheets for
General Use
“GALVAHI2ED
im..
-evefiM
(Extract from a letter from k a
satisfied Queensland user
"I find that it beats anything
and everything for cheapness,
stability and easel of handling,
not to mention being vermin
proof. The moment the sun
leaves it, the iron cools im-
mediately. I plump for gal-
vanized iron every time now,
being so much cheaper, and
in heavy rains it beats the lot."
lv:aght
Thousands and thousands of Australians,
equally enthusiastic as this Queensland
correspondent, recommend and use, when
possible, Lysaght's Galvanized Iron.
And their reasons? Conveniently priced
and with the different grades and brands
produced, the correct sheets are obtain-
able to suit perfectly the specialised work.
The "Orb" brands make comfortable and
reliable material for roofing and walling
in all weather. All Lysaght's brands
are manufactured at their Newcastle
Works and. are of a quality which
cannot be bettered in the world to-day.
JOHH LYSAGHT C&usti LTD
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
thing from £SOO to £7OO, according to the
method of farming adopted and the
amount of industry displayed. Fodder
crops would be grown for both cows and
sheep; rotational grazing would be
necessary.”
No. 3 is also good. The capital in-
volved would be only about £IOOO, in-
terest and sinking-fund payments would
run to about 255. per week and income
might be reckoned at £6 per week. “Such
a farm would support a family in the
Albury district, even away from the
river/’
In this experienced farmer’s opinion,
settlers should provide at least one-third
of the capital and the Government
should agree to accept 30-year payments.
One condition it might exact would be
periodical treatment of all holdings with
super.
“As things are,” said Mr. Jelbart wisely,
“we are handicapped in establishing and
holding overseas markets for some of
our products by the fact that we are not
able to guarantee that supplies will be
available throughout the year. If we had
a greater number of farmers producing
lamb, baby beef, bacon and pork, such
a guarantee we could give. Smaller
properties would necessitate working on
more scientific lines. Artificial manur-
ing would become more general, and this
would assist materially in improving
quality as well as quantity—increasing
the fertility of the soil and improving
the capital value of the land.”
Hints for the Farm.
“Lion”: A deep, clean-cut wound that
has bled freely needs stitching for best
results. It must be thoroughly clean.
Jagged wounds may also be stitched if
free from foreign matter, but avoid
leaving protruding lumps of flesh or
allowing hair to be stitched inside. And
where there is bruising or loss of tissue
don’t stitch. Trustworthy antiseptics
such as permanganate in crystals and
zinc chloride should always be on hand.
Kerosene is useless and painful.
“F-man”: I’ve found an ordinary
scrubbing brush rubbed up and down a
dog’s spine will bring him out of a fit.
Next best thing’s the heel of a boot, with
a foot in it.
“Mari-ja”: Dried, the inside of corn-
cobs—corn removed, of course —make
first-rate handles for chisels and files and
the like.
“Jachris”: In the case of nuts you
can’t unscrew, try soaking in eucalyptus
oil. Allowed to soak in round the head
for half a day or so it will loosen the
most obstinate.
“Louden”: When thoroughly dry, new
cement work can be successfully painted
if it be given a priming coat of sulphuric
acid (one part acid to seven parts water).
For new plaster work use undiluted
vinegar.
“W.W.”: Lampas is harmless in young
horses changing their teeth and needs no
treatment. If accompanied by a fever,
it is generally the sign of stomach or
bowel disorders, and is then to be cor-
rected with a dose of physic and a diet
of damp or boiled feed. In rare cases
where the state persists, it may be neces-
sary to relieve the animal by lancing the
ridges with a sterilised lancet. Have this
done by a vet.
“R.K.”: Try my way of getting rid of
scaly-leg in poultry. From a kero.- or
petrol-tin cut a tray about 3in. deep, cut-
I ting down from top to bottom. Half-
fill with water, and on fop of water pour
a cupful of any thin, clean oil, mixed
with about a fourth of the quantity of
kerosene. Place tray under an opening
made in netting or gate, so that fowls
must step into the liquid to get out or
in. Leave for two or three days, remove
for a week, and then replace for a similar
period. This treatment smothers the in-
sects responsible for the complaint, and
the affected scales will drop off.
“Granova”: The gates described by
“Liss” (B. l/7/’36) are good, but let me
suggest an alternative method of hanging
them. Instead of two pieces of 3in. by
I in. for the butts, use one piece of 3in.
by 3in. Round it at the top and saw
into the corners 3in. from bottom.
Round timber below saw-cuts to 2in. in
diameter. Place a footplate or heavy
block in gateway, and with a 2in. auger
bore a hole in it 3in. from gatepost.
Place bottom of butt in auger hole and
put an eyebolt over top of butt, bolting
it through gatepost. Weight of gate will
rest on footplate instead of hanging on
post, and 12ft. hardwood gates can be
hung successfully. If gate sags, head can
be raised by tightening nut on eyebolt.
Unknown in Westralia quarter of a cen-
tury ago (rabbits were almost unheard-of
at the beginning of the century), foxes
have now established themselves in the
farming districts. In 1934-35 24,088
scalps were paid for at ss. a scalp ; in
the first nine months of 1935-36, 22,338.
The Department of Agriculture recom-
mends poisoning with parrots—“particu-
larly attractive to foxes: the poison
should be inserted through the beak,
well down inside. This form of bait is
not removed by crows or other birds
and will tempt the fox even when dried
up.” But some farmers demur, saying
foxes kill rabbits.
“P.M.”: That a fat pig dies quicker
than a poor one is no myth. The former
has a weak heart, and will not stand the
slightest shock. I have seen a fat pig
die in a few minutes after a dog has
bitten its ear ; the same pigs that will die
so easily can, if in thin condition, be
rounded up with the dogs like wild bul-
locks,
“Ras Berry”: Milking a cow on the
off side is a matter of habit. In some
sheds where milking is done by machinery
each stall is wide enough for two cows,
with room for the attendant between
them. One is milked from the near and
the other from the off side. In this way
only half of the usual amount of posts
and rails between each stall is needed.
The Victorian Parliament is consider-
ing a Stock Foods Bill which provides
that manufacturers and importers of
mixed, concentrated or prepared stock
foods, stock licks and by-products must
register their brands annually with the
Director of Agriculture, and must label
their products, showing the guaranteed
chemical composition. The bill is
modelled on a Queensland measure. In
introducing it Agricultural Minister
Hogan recalled that “when the Queensland
Stock Foods Act was amended to in-
clude stock licks, and to have them
labelled with the guaranteed analysis, a
large number of licks immediately went
off the market.”
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) When is the proper time to propagate
deciduous trees by cuttings, the dormant or
growing period ? (2) Also proper time for
grafting ? —1973.
(1) In winter, when the trees are dormant.
(2) In early spring, when the sap is commencing
to move, but make sure the scion (the portion
you are grafting on to the stock) has not started
to make growth.
'\' * * *
Is pepsin obtainable from pawpaws ? If not,
what is the substance, somewhat similar to
pepsin, which is extracted from the fruit?
Details of manufacture ?— 1994.
Pepsin is an animal product and is not
obtainable from pawpaws. A material known
as papain, which has somewhat similar
digestive properties to pepsin, is, however, ob-
tained from the fruit. Fairly full details re-
garding the properties, methods of extraction
of papain, etc., are given in the “Malayan Agri-
cultural Journal,” Vol. 22 (1934); “Agriculture
and Livestock in India,” Vol. 2 (1932); “Bul-
letin of the Imperial Institute,” Vol. 31 (1933).
Papain is contained in the latex of the pawpaw
plant. The latex tubes are found in all parts
of the plant, and the latex exudes whenever
an incision is made. The tubes, however, are
most numerous in the outer skin of the fruit.
Incisions are usually made in the fruit and
arrangements made to catch the latex that drops
out of the cuts. The latex should be collected
in jars of aluminium, glass or porcelain. The
latex is then spread on dishes and dried in
the sun or in furnaces, but preferably under
vacuum.
* * *
(1) When did prickly-pear become a pest in
Queensland ? (2) Was north N.S.W. also in-
vaded ? (3) How large an area of Q’land was
ruined for the lime being ? (4) Did the Q’land
Government offer a large reward for prickly-
pear eradication ? (5) Where did the caclo-
blaslis insect come from and how does it
destroy a plant with such amazing vitality ?
—1960.
(1) and (2) Prickly-pear is said to have spread
from cuttings from a plant introduced to
Scone (N.S.W.) in 1839. It was not recog-
nised as a potential pest in Q’land until the
’seventies; in 1883 it was formally declared
a noxious plant by the Legislature. (3) The
infestation in Q’land reached a maximum ot
approximately 26,000,000 acres when the Prickly-
pear Land Commission was constituted in 1924.
(4) Several years prior to 1924 the Q’land
Government had offered a large reward for a
satisfactory scheme of destruction, but it was
subsequently withdrawn. (5) The cactoblastis
insect was introduced from South America in
1914, but, the war compelling operations to be
suspended, the few insects introduced died
out. The next introduction was in March,
1925, and from the 2750 insects then imported
the subsequent insect population was derived.
Cactoblastis multiplies rapidly and destroys
the prickly-pear by eating the fleshy growth
of the plant, leaving only the skin and fibrous
matter. Naturally, a considerable portion is
also destroyed by the pollution in the plant
set up by the insects.
* * # *
The subject of pig-raising in N. S. Wales
interests me. What books should I consult ?
—2174.
Set out your plans and needs in a letter to
the State Agricultural Department. Where
applications are genuine, it sends useful pam-
phlets post free.


SMOKE-OH!
“Dorinda was a girl after my own heart.”
—Short story.
And she probably got it in the end.
“ ‘What good has the introduction of motor-
cars ever done?’ asks a nature-lover indig-
nantly.”
Well, hasn’t it reduced the number of
cases of horse-stealing?
•b 4* 4* ■
“ ‘Australians are a nation of animal-lovers,’
says an overseas visitor.”
Even the wolf at the door has become
a domestic pet.
q* q* -i- 4
“In a breach of promise action a man said
he had made love to the girl because he was
tired and lackadaisical.”
There is of course nothing like a little
spoon to stir a man up.
.t. q. q- *
“On one occasion the whole family fought
forest fires for three days; they were so ex-
hausted that they slept for 36 hours.” — “San.”
The back sleep of the family.
* 4* "!' *
“So poor Mary Thomson dreamed of life.”
— Woman’s paper.
It is, alas, but an M.T. dream!
q* *2- q* *
“Old Dick wasted away his life, drifting
about from town to town, unable to secure
employment.’’— Magazine story.
A rolling stone gathers no boss.
“Can’t you learn to take a hoof out of the milk without spillin'?"
“ ‘My very first story was accepted for pub-
lication in a college magazine,’ says a famous
author. T had written it m the third person,
but was absolutely astounded to find that the
editor had changed it to the first person.
He could scarcely believe his I’s.
* * * *
“ ‘Before wc were married he called me
“darling” and “beloved” ; now my husband
never calls me anything,' said petitioner in a
divoicc case.
What marvellous self-control.
iITT , *l* * t * -1* awi
“He knew that she was virtuous and had
a sweet disposition, but he would not marry
her on account of her unsightly stoutness.”
-—Short story.
Too much of a good thing.
* * *
“His grandmother was one of a family of
21—10 sets of twin girls and one boy....He
neither smokes nor drinks. Neither did his
father.” — Meih. “Sun.”
Nor, apparently, did his sireat-grand-
father. "
•I- * * *
“In an uncivilised condition the law of beak
and claw prevailed ."—“S.M.H."
Civilisation, however, has found it
necessary to retain the “beak.”
“Sheep of Israel: The farmer’s flock men-
tioned in the Old Testament has modern an-
cestors in Britain.” — “World’s News.”
They must, however, look different
from their descendants which lived thou-
sands of years ago.
*l* -I* v
“I do not live in the past. Every day 1
go out to an English cricket ground ready to
shout swans to the first flock of geese that
comes my way!”— Neville Cardns.
Hush, Neville! Our bowlers will soon
make it “ducks.”
-I- %- -I* ■!”
“A speedometer has been devised in America
to show a green light at, say, up to 30 m.p.h.,
a yellow to 50 m.p.h. and a red at higher
speeds.”— “San."
And thereafter the car radio automati-
cally plays Homer’s “Requiem.”
•i* T> “b
“ ‘The world’s dirtiest cities are in Poland,"
says a returned traveller.”
And Fleadom shrieked when Kosci-
usko fell!
q- >!> *l*
“ ‘ln Queensland, races are held lor goats,
says a Sydney paper.”
And aren’t they in the other States?
q- v T T
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
VIII. — Traffic Signals.
As you get to within 100 yards or so
of the end of the street, tell the wife to
turn to the right on reaching it, but not
to forget the proper traffic signal. She
will immediately put her hand out the
window, holding it up in the “stop”
position.
“That’s the wrong one,” you say. “You
put it straight out to indicate a right-
hand turn; but you needn’t give the
signal till you get closer to the corner.”
“Yes, and have someone bang into
the back of us!” So she will keep it out,
and by the time you get to the end of
the street her arm will be aching.
“How am I to turn the wheel with one
hand?” Check her rising panic by ex-
plaining that the signal is now useless
and that she can use both hands on the
wheel, but warn her to slacken speed.
Without slowing down in the least
she'll jerk the wheel around, the tyres
shrieking a protest as she skids it round
the corner. Once into the other street
she’ll make no attempt to turn .he
wheel back again, so you yell out:
“Straighten up!”
“What do you mean? Aren’t I sitting
at the wheel properly?”
Save your detailed explanation till
j ater an( j j er k jh e w h ee l back in time to
avo j d runn i n g down a cyclist coming
Wait till she is normally 7w
along. Wait till she is normally zig
zagging up the street again before
saying:
“You should have slackened off speed
before turning that corner.”
When she comes back with “Well,
how do y OU eX p ect me to do several
things at once? You should teach me
one thing at a time!” don’t try to think
P ~
up another. You were never intended
to have the last word.
You will now be approaching a hill.
Half-way up is a busy cross-street with
a traffic cop on duty. An excellent test
f or ber. ’
* T • t t . Inbnr nra
. engine stalls to labor, She not
having given it sufficient acceleration to
ta^e on to P’ her to get back into
second gear. Don’t forget to explain
carefully that you always come down
in gears exactly the same way as you
went up — i.e., lop to second, second to
first. Therefore she must put the clutch
in, rev. up quickly, put the selector
“I know, I know, don’t prompt me,”
she’ll say—“half-way up, across, and up
again” ; and before you can frantically
check her she’ll make a perfect change
(the quickest she’s done since she
started) and, with a frightful, clattering
din, she’ll jamb it straight into reverse!
You will pitch forward twice —keep
your feet propped well up in front of
you to take the shock. The first will be
as the wheels, revolving forward at 15
m.p.h., are suddenly expected to go
backwards. The second will be a
moment later, when a following car
crashes into your rear bumper bar.
As your dazed senses begin to func-
tion again you will see a truculent face
push through the window and hear a
savage voice saying:
“1 thought so! A .woman driver!
Why the hell didn’t you give the ‘stop’
signal? Look at me blasted radiator!”
From the opposite side looms the large,
imposing figure of the traffic cop.
S. W. K.
“Say, Dennis, what’s all this fuss about quintuplets?"
Treatment.
Nobody could understand the strange
conduct of the little man at the holiday
resort. He would allow anyone to knock
him about, kick or punch him, and he
was never heard to complain. The small
boys in the streets used to throw stones
at him. He would encourage them.
Three or four times he tried to throw
himself under the local steam-roller ; and
once he got tangled up with a lawn-
mower.
The sergeant of police said it would
have to stop. “What’s the idea of it all,
anyway?” he asked.
“It’s like this,” explained the little man.
“My doctor ordered me to take a holiday
here without my wife. It’s the first time
I’ve been away from home in 30 years
of married life. I’ve got to do something
to relieve the homesickness.”
D. S.
T- T 1 v
No Room for Doubt.
It must have been the qight, or her
devastating frock, or those three “spots,”
or just plain insanity, but:
“D-d-darling, will y-y-you m-m-marry
me?” I stammered.
“Yes, I suppose so,” she sighed.
“Thank you very much,” 1 murmured ;
“1 hope I’ll be able to do the same for
you some day—er, that is, dash it, dar-
ling, have you ever loved before?”
“Well, Percy,” she admitted, “I’ve often
admired a man for his name, clothes,
strength, ardor, confidence, persistence,
fearlessness, domination, brains, charac-
ter, manners, taste, ideals, conversational
ability, generosity or income ; but with
you, dear, it’s really love.”
P. C.
Giving the Fish a Chance.
“Why not make fishing really a sporting
game and end these controversies? We would
like a new technique of fishing where the fish
could occasionally win. After all, in the
thousands of Zane Grey encounters with big
fish not one fish has ever caught Zane Grey.”
—New York “Evening Post.”
The idea is excellent. As soon as , the
new technique is developed contests
could be arranged in a suitable enclosure.
Opposed to a swordfish, Zane Grey
should be equipped with a sword him-
self instead of a fishing-line. He might
also be conceded a shield and allowed the
use of a dinghy.
To place the contest on a fair footing,
the fish should be given a rudimentary
knowledge of fencing. It could be taught
how to lead and parry, general balance
and to riposte after feinting with fin or
tail. It should also be instructed in the
strategy of swimming in circles around
the dinghy, so that Zane Grey will be-
come giddy and fall out.
Provided that the fish can be made to
appreciate the ethics of the game, it
should prove not only popular but emi-
nently fair.
Should victory fall to Zane Grey a
new fish can easily be acquired. In the
event of the fish winning, it could be
taken back to the ocean with triumphant
ceremony and a new novelist imported.
The gradual diminution of overseas
competition by this means would greatly
enhance the prospects of our local
writers.
Besides being fine exercise for both
Zane Grey and the fish, the sport should
prove a most diverting entertainment for
onlookers, and would provide them with
an entirely new subject for bets.
Nat.
'T T T
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XXII. — A Tip-top Town.
Launceston is situated on top of Tas-
mania and doesn’t forget to let you know
it.
“Hobart!” says the Launcestonian
slightingly. “Yes, of course, that’s the
capital, but apart from that it doesn't
count.” ,
The impression given is that Hobart
is the capital merely through an accident
of birth.
“Which is the bigger city?” you in-
quire timidly.
“Launceston is by far the more im-
portant,” he counters.
“What’s your population?”
“Well, I’ve belonged to the 50,000
League for years.”
You make a note of the figure. In
your peregrinations around the city you
will notice tablets and plaques inscribed
“Erected by the Launceston 50,000
League.”
It probably won’t be till months later
that you discover that 50,000 is the aim,
not the boast, of the League.
The figure would, however, have been
reached long ago if the young people of
Tasmania had been as enthusiastic about
it as their elders. The old folk do their
best by living to a ripe old age —anyone
who dies under 95 is regarded as a
traitor to the cause —but the young people
let them down badly by getting out of
Tasmania as fast as the Bass Strait
steamer can take them.
The main reasons are the difficulty a
Tasmanian has in getting into the Aus-
tralian Eleven, the recruiting activities
of Victorian football clubs and the bad
example set by the Prime Minister.
No tourist should miss Cataract Gorge
(dug by members of the 50,000 League),
but he should be careful to see that his
pocket is well-filled with pennies, as at
intervals en route he will pass through
turnstiles. These look quite innocent,
but when he attempts to return he will
find they refuse to budge unless fed with
coppers. It is most embarrassing if you
have no small change.
Miss Birdseed was caught (Chapter
XIX, Antipodean Antics ): —-
There T was, imprisoned on the far side
without a penny in my purse. I was
frantic ! It was late in the afternoon, and
for all I knew ferocious blacks or bush-
rangers might even then have been spying
upon me from among the trees... .Fortu-
nately Sir Percy Whipsnoodle came along
in time to save me. The guide told me
afterwards I had had a very lucky escape.
Some people, he said, had to wait for days
before being rescued, and one or two had
actually starved to death while awaiting
release. Truly there are times when a
penny may be worth more than a pound.
Sir Percy wrote a strong letter to
the paper about it. They altered it
slightly and featured it under the heading
“Titled Tourist Praises Cataract Gorge.”
Launcestonians are very hospitable,
and spare no pains to save the tourist
trouble—that is to say, to save him the
trouble of visiting Hobart. They have
brought up from Hobart a museum of
Port Arthur relics and are negotiating
for the transfer of (1) Government
House; (2) Parliament House, (3) Cascade
Brewery, (4) Tatt.’s.
When this programme has been com-
pleted, they maintain, there will be no
need to visit Hobart at all.
Jasby.
Imperfection.
I’ve done my best, since I’ve been wed,
To lead a blameless life;
And in this task, it must be said,
I’ve never failed my wife.
She gets my pay on Friday nights;
And, though it cost me dear,
I chucked the races, dogs and fights
And knocked off drinking beer.
Yet in her eyes the man next door
(As meek as any mouse)
Of men like me is worth a score :
He’s handy round the house!
A. S. A.


m
V \\'l
#r
rfi J
*
8
y>
More Sketches of Aboriginal Life
by the Writers of “ All-About. ”
“CHUNUMA”
BY
Mary and Elizabeth Durack.
COMMENCING NEXT WEEK.
Some bright, happy glimpses from a
forthcoming book about that black
community on A rgyle station, in the
Kimberleys (W.A.), which peopled “All-
About” and made of it decidedly “the
happiest book of the year.”
Boxer, Norah, Polly and others are
hack, living and laughing, working and
sleeping; Boxer still seeking gold. And
there are others who are new. Chunuma
himself, the “little-bit-king,” Dingyerri
and Gwennie, who can “sing like’m
crumaphone.”
XJfi
u
/*'xZXfii
6sr\nt
m
Closing Chapters of an Unusually Dramatic Serial.
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
luu^rewt-o
er
SuCtf
Chapter VIII. —( Continued .)
MURDOCH went across the room and bent over
the body. A match-flame showed the marks of
fingers on the throat. He blew it out and stood
upright. The fellow had throttled her, then! The
woman had paid heavily for her interference.
The trouble with her, he thought, looking down
at her, was that she belonged to a day that was
finished, and hadn’t been able to realise it. No
doubt she had been a fool, and mischievous,
and he hadn’t liked what he had heard of her as she
argued with Paul. But she had had her time of love,
and had not been able to let go when the end came.
She belonged to the past, just as he belonged to
Joyce’s past. He thought, with a dim smile, that he
and this discarded woman had something in com-
mon. Both of them had been strong influences within
two other lives, now moving together. Burnley had
had to get past this woman before he could come to
Joyce. And Joyce had had a narrow escape,
although she knew nothing of it. If things
had been a little different! But it was no
use going over that again; he had dis-
covered that he could do nothing to harm
Joyce. His desire for her was the strongest
force within him, but there was something
that steadied him beneath its shocks and
would not let him pause over any thought
that might endanger her happiness.
He found himself thinking of Joyce.
Not for a moment did he believe Burnley
would have the courage to go down and
tell her what had happened. He wasn’t that
kind ; and if he had meant to do it he
wouldn’t have brought the body to this
empty room. The secret would be an un-
comfortable one, but Burnley would keep
it to himself as long as he could. And what
would that mean?
Murdoch had represented the law in
dangerous country, but his legal interpre-
tations had not pressed heavily on the
natives. He was equal to decisions that
might not be popular in civilised countries ;
but he had not forgotten the tenacity of
European police and the slow routine of
courtrooms. It might be some time before
this woman Lola would be missed, and it
might be still longer before they would get
on her track and discover the body hidden
away in the woods or left in some shallow
grave. But after that they would get busy.
There would be a coming and going of
detectives, the issue of warrants, the arrest
of Burnley. They would get him.
A sudden alarm seized Murdoch as he
saw clearly all that this affair might mean
to Joyce. There was a danger —almost a
certainty—that her love and firje ideals
would be displayed m a police court. And
that would be the least of it. He knew Joyce.
There would be an ugly shock when she heard
that her lover was to face a capital charge,
but it would not affect her loyalty. She
would stand with Burnley through every-
thing. A love like hers would show its inmost beauty
against a shadow of disaster. She would cleave to
Burnley because she loved him — L and because she
believed him to be innocent.
The thought was hurtful to Murdoch. In time
she would have to see that she was wrong, that the
man she had chosen was not of the stature she had
imagined. A clear decision came to Murdoch as he
considered these possibilities. A little later, perhaps,
Joyce would have to find out that Burnley was not
really worth her love ; but she would find it out in
her own way and in her own time, and learn to adjust
her life accordingly. The discovery must not come
to her in a courtroom, with cameras to trap the sorrow
in her face, and newspapers to give careful record
of it to a world that knew nothing of her except that
she loved the prisoner. An experience of this kind
might not destroy her, but it would put her beyond
the reach of happiness. It must never come to her.
Murdoch saw that there was only one way in
which he could help Joyce. He bent down to the body
and lifted. An effort was needed, for it was becoming
awkward to handle. Then he had to undergo the
strain of the journey downstairs. Quietness was
needed, and he was accompanied all the way by a
fear that a door would open suddenly and disclose
him, with his burden, in a circle of light.
All was dark and silent over the stairway, and
he could hear no sound of voices. The journey
seemed endless. Steps appeared to multiply beneath
him, falling away into an incredible distance. The
front door was open, and he could see the wished-for
panel of blue. But his burden was growing heavier,
and the stiffening muscles were playing him tricks.
He wanted to keep his thoughts impersonal as far
as the dead woman was concerned, but he could not
help thinking that the task would have been much
simpler if she were still alive. No doubt Burnley
had carried her and found the job easy.
An edge of light showed under, a closed door, and
he caught a murmur of voices as he came to the
bottom of the stairs and faced a last level stretch
of carpet. He hurried forward and felt the night
against his face. The carpet gave way to steps and
then to turf that was uneven and littered with stones.
But he could take his time now, for he could see
the pool and the dull white of the clay bank a little
distance ahead. Another' minute and the journey
would be over.
He sank down at the edge of the pool and allowed
his breathing to become quieter. The body had fallen
rather heavily from his arms, and the small hat was
displaced from her head. Plenty of heavy stones
were lying about, and he tied a couple of these into
her clothes. Then he picked her up, and with a great
effort cast her into the centre of the pool. The noise
of the plunge was deep, but there was not much of
a splash, and the ripples died quickly away in the
shadow. He fastened a stone in her hat and threw
this in also, and then he turned away from the pool
and went up among the trees.
At first he was glad just to lie on a carpet of
pine needles and take some of the darkness into his
mind. The events of this hour had brought fierce
illumination, and he wanted to forget the burden he
had carried downstairs, the dead face by the brink
of the pool and the sound of the body’s plunge into
the water. These things would come back later, but
by then he would know how to receive them. At the
moment he was too tired.
How quiet these woods were! They were old ;
they had been left here a long lime while the world
rushed by outside. He could hear the uneasiness of
the upper branches as a night breeze came over the
ridges around the valley, and his outstretched hands
could feel the backs of roots that crawled down into
the closer darkness of earth. A bird’s singing came
from the heart of the wood, and he raised himself
on an elbow as the notes grew stronger. His thoughts
were like that, he said to himself. They went here
and there and up and down like the fancy notes of
the night-bird ; but d thought of Joyce kept coming
back and shining out through all the others.
He had helped her quite a lot to-night, but he
had not gone far enough. It was good to have saved
her from the shame of Burnley’s arrest and trial. But
now he had to save her from Burnley. He was willing
to admit that there must be some good in the fellow
or Joyce would never have loved him ; but there was
poor stuff in him, too. She needed someone better.
He couldn’t go to her and talk about the man she
was planning to marry ; Crude methods were out of
the question ; and he had a wish, now that he had
finished his own secret battle, to go through with the
whole thing without letting Joyce know that he had
been in her valley.
It was still early, and no doubt Joyce and Burnley
were sitting down to a meal. But love was impatient,
and unless he could do something fairly quickly Joyce
would be in that fellow’s arms, and then there would
be time for nothing but regrets.
If only he could influence Joyce! But she had
never shown much interest in the rough advice he
had given her from time to time in Papua. He remem-
bered that she had set herself against him, and he
thought again of their long argument soon after she
had come to the clearing, and of the things she had
said to him when he admitted that he had been think-
ing about her from his campfire on the mountain-
top . . .
He sat up rather quickly, remembering the way
she had reacted to his concentration of thought and
feeling. That was one way he could reach her. He
stayed quiet a little longer, remembering and planning
and making his decision. Then he rose and walked
with sure steps towards the house.
Chapter IX.
I. .
PAUL knew that his hours of sanctuary were at
an end. Joyce was going out from the dining-
room, and he would be expected to go with her.
Thereafter he would be yielded up to the house ; and,
although in his heart he was glad to be
done with suspense, he had an instinctive
desire to hold back.
“How could Murdoch be in England? ’
“I thought I told you he had furlough
—six months of it.”
He was not sure, whether she had told
him or not, and felt that he was talking
confusedly. But words were helpful. They
did not express his secret thoughts, yet they
came with a commonplace, reassuring sound
into a silence that had become charged with
unspoken fears.
“I can’t understand why he should want
to come here, if 1 remember rightly, there
was never much love lost between you.”
“Love! ”
She echoed the word with unexpected
emphasis, and raised her head with an
almost-frightened movement.
“It’s scarcely a word that Murdoch
would have used. But he could feel things
more strongly than most men, I think. He
had lots of force ; and perhaps I’ve been
unjust to him in some ways. Feeling that
isn’t love doesn’t have to swing back into
hate. I don’t know. These things must
be settled later. I only know that he’s here
somewhere, and that he’s turned all his
force towards me. We must hunt him out
of his corner and bring him into the open.
Then I’ll know everything.”
Paul believed that Joyce was wrong
in suspecting Murdoch to be in the house.
She had become intuitively aware of Lola’s
presence, and because this knowledge had
crept upon her with the dread which rises
from intangible things she had connected
her feelings with an earlier experience that
had affected her in the same way. And
yet as he prepared to follow her he remem-
bered those moments in the bedroom when
Lola had imagined shapes and sounds and
had believed that they were not alone.
Women were quick about these things ; it
was not always wise to discredit their fancies.
He remembered Lola’s “listening” look, and knew
that it was almost the last expression he had seen in
those eyes. They were blank now. And Lola was
up there in the small room ; and moonlight would
be streaming through the window and falling like
the beam of a cinema on the rigid figure.
Joyce was turning to the door.
“You’ll come with me, Paul?”
“Of course. What are you going to do?”
“I’m going to look into every room in the house.
Sooner or later we’ll find him.”
They went into the hall and stood at the foot
of the stairs. Moonbeams poured through the stained-
glass window and put their candles to shame. Joyce
gave him the candles and responded to his frantic,
unspoken thoughts by turning away from the stairs.
“We’ll make sure of the ground floor first.”
His one desire was to prolong this ground-floor
search until Joyce was weary of it. When her first
anger was dying away he might be able to convince
her that her imagination had been playing tricks. It
might be possible to entice her back to the dining-
room; away from this chilly hall, with its panelling
that received the candles with dull, unfriendly gleams,
with its creakings of timber and unaccountable sounds
from corners where hangings were folded against


doorways, and with its musty smell that was un-
defeated after hours of open doors and windows.
“This is a drawing-room,” said Joyce presently.
“We had no use for rooms of this kind out here, but
my aunt liked to have a room for visitors, even though
she knew that the visitors would never come.”
Paul tried to respond as naturally as if they were
making a tour of inspection. He hoped that if they
could keep to this vein her earlier idea would lose
its force. They looked about them at cold colorings
of carpet and wallpaper, at chairs standing stiffly
upright, and at a piano that had been imperfectly
dusted. Joyce went across and lifted the cover.
“The agents had people in to clean up for us,
and they didn’t do badly. But they left a little dust,
1 notice.”
“Is that surprising? The place has been closed
a long time.”
“Too long. You could almost fancy that it has
germinated an interior life of its own within the
silence and shadows: a life that hasn’t retreated any
further than to the curtains and the corners, and is
only waiting for us to be gone to come back and
take possession.”
She made an impatient movement.
“I’m tired of these fancies. But they seem to
come naturally from this atmosphere. There’s some-
thing strange in the house, something alien and hostile.
If it isn’t Murdoch it’s something that would make
an excellent background for his witch-doctoring. This
is the morning-room.”
She showed him a face with its first signs of
tiredness.
“I’m beginning to feel rather silly about all this.
Perhaps it was only fancy after all, or perhaps I’m
merely paying a penalty for the excitement of the
last few days. Nerves do things like that to us.”
“I know they do,” he said in eager agreement.
“And even if Murdoch is concentrating his thought
on you it doesn’t necessarily mean that he’s in the
house. The first time he affected you so noticeably
he was miles away on a jungle journey. Don’t you
remember?”
She seemed willing to agree with him.
“He might be in London,” he hurried on, “or
even further than that. I. don’t know much about
these things ; but it seems possible that a man of
his force could reach you across the sea.”
She stood near him, weighing his words.
“I should like to believe you,” she said presently,
“but I can’t. You see, I know Murdoch. I lived
close to him in a primitive background, and for most
of the time I was resisting him. It may be that
in doing so I came a little under his influence. He
got into my mind and left something there that works
for him when he turns towards me in thought. You
have to live in Papua to understand these things. I’ve
never quite lost him ; I seem to be in touch with his
movements. That’s why I know he’s here.”
He touched her arm.
“Shall we put all this aside, Joyce? Don’t you
think we’re allowing it to spoil everything?”
“I know, dear, and 1 hate myself for it. And
yet”
She put a hand to her forehead.
“There’s something in it that won’t leave me in
peace. If Murdoch is here I’ll have to find him.”
“It’s not going to be easy. He could avoid us
simply enough if he were here.”
“We’ll look into one more room. I should have
gone to the library in the beginning; I’ve had it
strangely in my thoughts. I want to find him, you
see, and yet I’m afraid to find him. You must give
me courage, Paul.”
They walked down a short passage.
“The library was uncle’s favorite room. I’m sure
I told you about it. There are windows that open
to a ledge”
She stopped suddenly and clutched his arm.
“What is it?” he whispered.
“Didn’t you hear? I thought it was a cry, low
and quick.” She hurried forward and opened the
door. Paul came after her with the candles, holding
them high. A spacious room rose from the shadows,
but the writing-table was bare of papers and the
chairs were unoccupied.
“There’s no one here,” said Paul.
Joyce was in the centre of the room, standing
quietly.
“He’s here,” she said. “I know he’s here.”
“He may have been here,” said Paul. “But he
certainly isn’t here now.”
She turned from him without answering and
walked to a deep leather chair near the empty fire-
place. A moment later her look disturbed him.
“Come here, Paul, and put your hand against
this leather. It’s warm!”
She looked about her and then walked towards
the French windows, open to the ledge and the moon-
light. Paul saw her turn to the left. Presently she
appeared again, walking along the ledge to the right
of the windows. This time a moment passed in utter
and chilling silence. Then her voice came.
“Paul! ”
She met him at the open windows, and at the
sight of her pale face he put out a hand to steady her.
“Joyce! What is it?”
“I’ve found him.”
He could not ask questions while she looked at
him with those eyes. She drew him out to the narrow
strip of grass and led him a yard or two to the right.
The ledge was dangerously narrow, and lay along
the full side of the house. Below it was a sheer drop
of about thirty feet, and when he looked down Paul
could see a shoulder of earth jutting out before it
sloped in an easy grade to the plain. The moonlight
fell with soft, white beams on something that lay
loosely sprawled on the first terrace of earth.
“It’s he!” whispered Joyce.
IT.
They brought him to the dining-room and laid
him on a large lounge that was afterwards pushed
near the fire. He had not spoken during the long
arid difficult journey down the grade and up the knoll
path, although he had not been able to suppress
sounds of pain ; and when he had been made com-
fortable on the lounge he looked at Joyce, bending
over him, and achieved a smile.
“Anyway,” he murmured, “all this sweat will
make me look familiar. I’ll swear you can’t remem-
ber seeing me at the clearing without dew on my
face. But this time it isn’t the heat.”
“How did it happen?” asked Joyce in a quiet,
impersonal voice.
“I was in too much of a hurry. That was the
beginning of it, and the end of. it was my surplus
tissue. You always said it would betray me some
day.”
“I wasn’t thinking of an accident; and I don’t
want you to tire yourself with unnecessary talking.
Just tell me what happened.”
“In a minute. But you needn’t think you’re going
to bully me into quietness. I may not be able to do
much more talking, and I’ve a fancy to use my voice
while I can hear it.”
“Don’t be silly, Murdoch! You won’t get rid
of your voice as easily as that. I’m going to examine
you in a minute, as soon as you’ve had a rest after
that nasty journey. I may have to hurt you again,
and I want you to be able to stand it. But I know
quite well what an examination will show me—a bad
strain and perhaps a minor fracture. Nothing serious.”
The smile on Murdoch’s face remained fixed until
Paul, watching him from the fireplace, began to think
it was a grimace of pain.
“It’s you who need a rest,” said Murdoch.
“You're stronger than 1 thought. I don’t know how
He sank down at the edge of the pool and allowed
his breathing to become quieter.
the two of you Carried me, for I'm no stripling. But
you don’t need to worry about an examination. I
guess this means the end of me, and I don’t want
any professional sick-room talk. We know each
other, you and I, and we ought to be able to stand
the truth. It might have been better for both of us
if we had realised that before.”
Paul could not see Joyce’s face as she turned
away from the lounge, but her voice was uncertain.
“If there’s anything 1 can do,” he said, going to
her, “1 hope you’ll tell me.”
“Thanks, Paul. I may need you a little later.”
“There’s nothing he can do for me,” broke in
Murdoch, whose hearing was still sharp enough to
catch their low tones.
They both turned in surprise at the hostility in
his voice. Joyce looked as if she wanted to say some-
thing sudden and severe.
“You still don’t approve of me, Murdoch?” asked
Paul with a half-smile.
“I don’t want you near me.”.
“That’ll do,” said Joyce. “You sound full of
hate' and you ought to know that emotion is tiring. I
want you to keep your strength ; you’re going to need
it in a few minutes. And it’s time you told me how
this happened.”
“I’ll have another sip of that water first.”
He received the glass from Joyce and gulped
a mouthful. His eyes watched her with a queer look,
half satisfaction and half shame, as she wiped his
face with a damp cloth.
“That won’t do any good. You doctors are all
the same, male or female.”
“You’re doing your best to annoy me. Tell me
the few things I want to know or lie still.”
“The accident was simple. I heard you coming
and tried to get out of the way. That was all.”
“I see. You thought you could climb down the
face of the knoll? You should have known better.
It’s steep,”
“Fairly ; but it’s deceptive in the moonlight, and
I’ve climbed worse grades than that down south. And
I wasted a few seconds waiting on the ledge. 1
thought it might be enough if I slipped to one side
of the windows and kept against the wall of the house
until you went away. Then I realised that you were
probably looking for me, and I decided to scramble
down the cliff. You see, I didn’t want to meet you
just then.”
“I suppose not. And then?”
“I managed it well enough at first. Then I trusted
to a twig of some kind growing out of a crack in
the rock. The twig broke, and I didn’t have a good
foothold. Something crumbled where my feet were
digging at the rock and soil, and down I went. I
fell clumsily and landed on my back. There was
a nasty jar, and I didn’t know anything clearly until
I saw your face bending over me. That’s all there
was to it.”
“Not quite, Murdoch; but we’ll leave the rest
of the story until you’re better.”
“Then you’ll never hear it—and you know it.
1 suppose you’re wondering why I came here?”
“Not altogether. I was able to suspect something
near the truth.”
“I wonder. You know one side of me pretty well,
but in some ways you haven’t been able to under-
stand. It doesn’t matter really, 1 suppose ; but I’ve
a sneaking desire to put myself right with you. 1
guess you’re the only woman I’ve ever wanted to
approve of me. Therefore you’ve hated me.”
“Nonsense! I don’t know why you imagine
things like that. 1 don’t hate you.”
“And you think, of course, that it isn’t in me
to rouse strong feeling in you? Don’t be too sure! 1
can remember a night when you came to me in a
rage.”
“Never mind about that now. And lie still. I
want to have a look at you.”
His expression changed quickly.
“Not yet! Please, Joyce! Damn it! I’m lying
here as helpless as a baby, and 1 suppose if you’ve
made up your mind I can’t do anything to stop you ;
but I don’t want you to paw me over and turn me
all ways and shake hell’s delight out of me. Give
me another ten minutes and I’ll tell you a few things
you might be glad to know. Let me put myself right
with you, and then you can take a look at me and
do your worst.”
Paul felt an impulse of pity as he saw the look
in Murdoch’s eye, and he knew that it reached Joyce
also.
“Ten minutes, then. But no longer. And for
God’s sake stop talking if you
feel that it’s too much for you.”
“Thanks. .1 want to tell
you things about myself. May-
be you know some of them;
but I’ve always thought you saw
only part of the way. It’s my
. own fault perhaps. A fellow
like me doesn’t show much of
himself, and when he wants a
woman to see the best of him
he sometimes closes up or be-
haves like a mule. I’ve spoken
roughly to you when I wanted
to be gentle. That ought to
make you smile. Murdoch
gentle! You think it isn’t pos-
sible, and perhaps
you’re right. But it’s
no proof that I can’t
have gentle thoughts or
feelings. That’s the
trouble, you see. The
thoughts are there, but
they never get out into
the open. There’s such
a crust of grizzly habit
built up through the
years that it takes a mighty strong thought of
any new or strange kind to break through. It
was like that from the beginning. Don’t you
remember the way I told you to clear out and leave
me in peace and solitude? That was gentleness.
And all the time I was really trying to say that you
looked good and clear and white to me, and that
I would like to love you if I dared.”
“Murdoch,” said Joyce unsteadily, “I don’t want
you to talk like this. I think I understand.”
“A little, perhaps. But I want to make sure
this time. Don’t worry, Joyce: I wouldn’t talk like
this if I thought I should be better to-morrow or
in a month’s time. I’m not ashamed of anything
now. All a fellow’s stiffness of fibre seems to snap
with his bones, and I’m learning to talk. But I
mustn’t ramble. There isn’t all the time I should like
to have. I think I ought to tell you the most important
thing at once, and then, maybe, you’ll understand
everything else. You see, Joyce, I loved you.”
He was silent for a time, and his eyes lost
the fixed stare of pain.
“I loved you. And that sounds simple enough,
doesn’t it? But we were living out there with the
jungle at the back of us, and you thought you had
to resist me. You didn’t care anything about me,
and you didn’t mind letting me see it.”
“Not really, Murdoch,” broke in Joyce. “I
think you misunderstood me there. I was just a little
afraid, I think, and I wanted to keep you at a
distance.”
“So that was it! Well, it might have helped if
I had been sure. But I wasn’t. I thought you were
just indifferent, and after a time it began to hurt. I
tried to get you out of the place. Then I tried to
be indifferent, but that failed too. And then I went
[Continued on page 50.)


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation,' transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full part' sulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
— Established 1834 —_—
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Skinny Hazlitt Again:—
PUNCH AND JUDY
BY
A.C. HEADLEY
'■pHER'E was nothing wrong with the
I game ; to say the least of it, it was
perfectly fair. Simple enough too.
First of all, there was the board with the
four squares of colors, then a sixteen-
sided wooden roller painted so that
it stopped with one color on top. If
it was the color you’d bet your money
on we paid out two to one. The rest
of the cop, the other quarter, went to-
wards the operating expenses. Nothing
could have been fairer. Yet I’m making
no wild statement when I say that it
almost changed the complexion of Skinny
Hazlitt’s life and
mine. It almost
made us honest.
It was the day of
the annual picnic
of the Amalga-
mated Window-
Swabbers’ Union,
and even though it
was still early my
pockets were be-
ginning to swell
with the superflu-
ous florins of the
multitude, the bad
two-bobs I’d
brought with me
Skinny Hazlitt.
disappearing at about the same rate. The
usual line of spruik was doing good ser-
vice. There I was, hard at it—“lf you don’t
speculate you can’t accumulate” —when
Skinny dashed in, just ahead of the hoof-
beats of two coppers. He didn’t waste
no time. He kicked the board over and
shoved me into the crowd. In half a
tick I was looking like a pleasuring win-
dow-swabber. While the cops were busy
picking up the board and forfeiting what
was left of the scattered coin for the
Crown, I was telling Skinny that Brasso
gave a better finish if you mixed it with
methylated spirits.
“Well,” said I as they marched away
with the board, “there goes our means
of livelihood.”
Skinny grinned. “You rotten liar!”
he said pleasantly. “Our means is in
yojir right-hand trousers pocket. Let’s
go some quiet place and count it.”
We pushed off to some spot where we
could find out how much over the
balance we budgeted. At the end of
ten minutes Skinny sat up. “Nineteen
pounds fifteen and thrippence,” he said,
“including seven bad two-bobs, which
reduces the total to nineteen pounds
fifteen and thrippence.”
He lay back and puffed at a cigarette.
A minute later he opened his mouth to
say something, and then closed it again.
I noticed the funny look in his eye —I’ve
seen it before, and every time it’s meant
trouble. It’s the look of wind in the
trees, the smell of sweet grass and white
galleons floating on a sea of infinite blue.
Skinny sighed. “Where’s it get you,”
ne said, “all this?”
The only thing I could think of was to
jingle the money in my pocket and say
“Nineteen pounds fifteen and thrip-
pence.”
“Honesty,” went on Skinny, without
paying any attention to me, “is the best
policy. I had that printed over my bed
once.”
“And that,” said I, “was the closest
you ever got to it. Why don’t you talk
about something you know something
’ about?”
Just at that moment a gentleman,
struggling along with his arms filled with
a Punch and Judy outfit, almost trod on
Skinny. “So sorr’,” said the gent., and
moved off.
Skinny sat up, tossed his cigarette
away and spat thoughtfully. “There you
are,” he said, pointing after the Punch
and Judy man. “A man coining money
by honest endeavor.”
“All right,” said I, without thinking,
“why don’t you set up as a Punch and
Judy show? You’ve got the appear-
ance.”
It was a mistake. I knew it the
moment it was uttered. Skinny’s eyes
showed the wild gleam again.
“You’re right,” he said quickly, and
before I could stop him he was making
a beeline for our latest acquaintance.
I took a good look at the Punch and
Judy fellow while Skinny was tapping
him on the shoulder. Skinny afterwards
swore that he was a Greek, but I have
as much faith in Skinny’s ethnological
observations as I have in his bright ideas.
Personally, I wouldn’t have wished him
on any self-respecting country. He was
thin and sweated-looking, and down one
cheek was a half-circle of scar. That
was my first impression. Active hatred
only started when, Skinny having offered
him five pounds for the lock, stock and
goodwill, his lips climbed up past his
teeth.
“Five pounts,” he said, “for a golt-
mine! Is you mat? It is a goot busi-
ness. To-day I make plenty money.”
“How much did you say you made?”
said Skinny.
The Punch and Judy man considered.
“ ’Bout four pounts.”
“All right,” said Skinny, “I’ll give you
ten quid for the outfit.”
“You’re on’y guessin’,” said Mr. Punch
and Judy in a satisfied kind of way. “I
build thees business. I slave. I starve.
Now my Poonch is Poonch an’ my
Joorty is Joorty. You come wit’ me an’
I show you ’ow much money I make.”
WE trailed in behind him, until pres-
ently he comes to a spot. It took him
only a couple of minutes to rig the
show up, and in no
time there was a
bit of a crowd
gathering round.
The feller climbed
in underneath and
started the show.
Before he did,
though, he took off
his hat and handed
it to Skinny. “You
see yourself
whether it’s a golt-
mine or whether it
ain’t.”
Well, half - way
through the piece
Skinny began to
wander in among
the crowd with the
hat. You should
have seen the way
Nothing could have been fairer.
the coins rolled in. In about two minutes
there was the best part of a quid. After
the show was over Punch and Judy
crawled out from under the tent with a
grin all over his face.
“Well,” he said, “is it a goltmine?”
And then he looked up at the sky. “Ah,”
he said, “what a Poonch my Poonch is,
an’ what a Joorty my Joorty is!”
“What’s it supposed to be?” said
Skinny. “The ‘Wreck of the Hesperus’?
Then his voice went into a yelp like a
soprano learning to breathe. “I’ll tell
you what I’ll do. I’ll give you twelve-
pound-ten and ask no questions.”
We trailed in behind him.
“Listen,” said I, catching him by the
arm, “when we get back to the city I’ll
buy you a couple of kewpies to play
with.”
But Skinny shook me off. His eye
was on the Punch and Judy man, whose
lips looked as though they were on the
point of climbing back over his cheeks.
“I am ver’, ver’ son’, gentlemans,” he
said. “My art —she is not for sale.”
“Fifteen quid,” said Skinny.
Mr. Punch and Judy slipped him the
fierce - light - that-beats-about-the-throne
kind of look. “Solt,” he said, “for
twenty pounts.”
Right then I should have grabbed
Skinny, clapped a hand over his mouth,
carried him to the wharves and booked
two passages for China. The way I
caught him by the arm proves that
there’s no connection between the
muscles of the arm and the vocal chords.
If there had been, Skinny would have
been lying at my feet, strangled to death.
As it was, his
voice continued
unmolested.
“Make it nine-
teen pounds and
it’s a deal. I’ve got
the money right
now.”
“Ho K.,” said
the Punch and
Judy man. “For
nineteen pounts I
gif you t’ show.
I gif you t’ book
o’ worts. I gif
you everythings.”
“Dig!” said
Skinny, turning to
me. Out of my
right trousers
pocket I forked
our capital.
It hurt me to see that cove biting the
two-bobs and turning back the bad ones.
“Don't forget the book of words,” said
Skinny.
Punch and Judy shoved a greasy,
paper-colored volume into his hands.
“All the worts an’ ’structions,” he said
as though he was bestowing a knight-
hood. Then he folded up the outfit and
passed it over.
WHEN he had gone Skinny looked
down at the bundle with the light
of love in his eyes. “Wait till to-mor-
row,” he breathed.
“My hope is that it never comes,”
said I.
By nine o’clock that night there was
only one thing I was wishing, and that
was that Skinny had been born in the
reign of King Herod the baby-farmer.
I don’t ever want to spend another night
like it. Repetition as an aid to memory
is all right for them that like it. I don’t.
It nearly drove me mad. There was
Skinny walking up and down the floor
giving off Punch and Judy by the yard.
And he kept it up for three parts of the
night.
Imagine Skinny’s falsetto yelping out
bits like this: “There’s a wife for you!
What a precious, darling creature! She
go fetch the child.—Here’s the child,
pretty dear! It knows its papa. Take
the child.”
Take it from me, it’s nerve-racking.
I sat in bed with my knees up listening
to him while he killed Judy, while he
killed Jack Ketch, while he killed the
whole caboodle. I could have murdered
him about twice as often as he murdered
them.
It was bad enough when he was recit-
ing, but every once in a while he’d climb
under the outfit and start on the dolls.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. I
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 742 of 1936.
BETWEEN HILDA LILLIAN GREEN
Petitioner
And VAUGHAN JOHN GREEN
Respondent.
TO VAUGHAN JOHN GREEN late of Cut-
tabri in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Hilda Lillian
Green has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
! dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion and TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit in the proper office of this Honourable
Court on or before the Fifth day of October
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 2nd day of July, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JOSEPH CHRISTIE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Rose Street, Wee Waa ; by his City
Agent, FREDERICK CHARLES BRYANT,
Solicitor, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. v
In Equity.
No. 532 of 1936.
No. 533 of 1936.
Respectively BETWEEN CHARLES ROY
TARRANT and TOM KEITH SMITH
Plaintiffs And ERL GORDON TARRANT
Defendant
And
TOM KEITH SMITH and CHARLES
ROY TARRANT Plaintiffs and ERL
GORDON TARRANT, MAGGIE
COWAN TARRANT and AGNES MARY
HOLLY BURKE Defendants.
TO the abovenamed Defendant ERL
GORDON TARRANT.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
Plaintiffs have commenced a Suit No. 532 of
1936 against you and also a Suit No. 533 of
1936 against you and others by Statements of
Claim filed in the abovenamed Court on the
Nineteenth day of May 1936 claiming in the
Statement of Claim in Suit No. 532 aforesaid
that the partnership between the late Charles
Henry Tarrant, Charles Roy Tarrant and you
carried on under the style or name of Tarrant
Trathen and Company might be declared to
be dissolved as from the Twelfth day of July
1935 and that the said partnership business
might be wound up by and under the direction
of the said Court and also that the above-
named Plaintiffs or some other fit or proper
person or persons might be appointed Receivers
and Managers without security of the said
partnership business and that an account might
be taken of the dealings and transactions of
the said partnership and of the said partners
and each of them in relation thereto and that
an enquiry might be had to determine of
what the assets of the said partnership con-
sisted and the respective interests of the said
partners therein and that the assets of the said
partnership including the goodwill of the said
partnership business might be realised AND
claiming in the Statement of Claim filed in
Suit No. 533 aforesaid that the property now
subject to the trusts of the Will of the said
Charles Henry Tarrant deceased might be
vested in the abovenamed Plaintiffs for all the
estate or interest therein now held by the
Plaintiffs and you as Executors and Trustees'
of the said Will to be held by the Plaintiffs
upon the trusts of the said Will as far as the
same are now subsisting and capable of taking
effect and claiming alternatively or in addition
that the Plaintiffs or some other fit and proper
person or persons might be appointed Receivers
or Receiver without security of the real and
personal estate of the said Testator with
authority to sell such real and personal estate
or any portion thereof and for the purpose
of effecting any sale of such real estate to
secure the registration of themselves as pro-
prietors by transmission of the said lands and
further claiming that as far as might be neces-
sary for the purposes aforesaid the estate of
the said Testator might be administered by
and under the direction of the said Court
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by
orders made in the said Suits on the Fifth
day of June 1936 by the Honorable Harold
Sprent Nicholas a Judge of the said Supreme
Court sitting in Equity the Plaintiffs were given
liberty to effect service of the said Statements
of Claim on you by posting copies of each of
the said Statements of Claim together with a
copy of each of the said orders in the General
Post Office Sydney in the State of New South
Wales in a registered envelope postage pre-
paid addressed to you at “Bellevue” King
William Street Greenwich in the said State
and by the publication in the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” newspaper a daily morning news-
paper published in Sydney aforesaid and in
The Bulletin newspaper a Sydney weekly
newspaper circulating in the States of New
South Wales and Victoria and in two daily
newspapers published in Melbourne in the
State of Victoria aiid in the “Australasian” a
weekly newspaper published in Melbourne
aforesaid of this advertisement AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are by
the said orders allowed thirty days from the
publication of the last of the said notices to
file your appearance to each of the said State-
ments of Claim. A copy of each of the said
Statements of Claim may be had by you free
of charge on application to the undersigned.
' WEAVER AND ALLWORTH,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs,
16 Barrack Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone; BWI2IB
GIDDINESS
GONE —Woman
MLa . . .
CWackA;
“For years 1 suffered . . . Without
warning 1 would become faint . . .
dizzy. Black spots would dance be-
fore my eyes . . . everything would
whirl and become blank. I was
never safe from these fits. One day
I collapsed in the street. Luckily I
was with a friend.
“She had me placed under proper
care. Only then did I learn the
cause of my trouble. My colon was
clogged with fermenting food waste.
Virulent bacteria were breeding and
getting into the blood stream . . .
undermining my entire system.
“Self-poisoning was thus sapping
my energy, causing the terrible
attacks. I was advised to take
COLOSEPTIC to clean my colon,
to stimulate my intestinal muscles.
I’m glad I did. I feel 10 years
younger, now I never suffer at all.”
Goloseptic ends dizziness and fainting fits,
spots before the eyes and liverishness, be-
poisoning (or Autoxima)—brought on by a
clogged colon. Let COLOSEPTIC clear your
intestines of putrefying waste——and fainting
fits, which are only symptoms, must end.
Experts agree COLOSEPTIC is safest. It’s
sure—too because it also tones up the
kidneys, the pores of the skin, and the
respiratory system—the other three organs
which eliminate poisons from the body.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK
Coloseptic is sold by all chemists. If un-
obtainable locally write to Coloseptic
i(Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Or clip coupon for generous demonstration
jar and the informative, intimate booklet
on Autoxima which is included FREE.
jaiminq jjia
cause it removes the basic causes—self-
Goloseptic
CLIP HERE.
jr’vwwwwww*yrw'9 r ww y ir'ww , www , w'yr
t Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.,
i 26 O'Connell Street, Sydney,
Please send me FREE book on Autoxima.
Also send my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose 1/•
in penny stamps.
t Name
t Address
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,’’ Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, O/O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
1 got sick of watching the dam’ things
bobbing up and down while his soprano
shriek whined;
“ Who’d be plagued with a wife
That could set himself free
With a rope or a knife
Or a good stick, like me.”
If I’d had a rope or a knife or a good
stick it would have been tough luck for
Skinny. To make things worse, in be-
tween recitations he gave quarter-hourly
chats on the advantage of earning an
honest crust. It was a new Skinny. I
didn’t like it. Every man to his trade,
says I, and honesty wasn’t Skinny’s.
BY morning Skinny had it all off pat.
He could give you Punch and Judy
as though he had been born to the game.
So off we went to the picnic grounds.
All cluttered up with the outfit, we
climbed off the ferry. I forget whose
picnic it was, but when Skinny saw all
the people gathered around the wharf
he gave me a hefty slap on the back.
“Boy,” he said, “it’s a snap. It’s a gold-
mine. Look at them. You set up the
show four times a day, and all you have
to do is use your hat for them to empty
their pockets into. It’s a mint and it’s
honest.”
“That’s what worries me,” said I. “It’s
not right. We weren’t meant to be
honest. It’s against our better natures.”
Skinny found a likely Spot and fixed up
the show. Then he waited until there
were half a dozen people standing
around, and climbed under the tent. 1
stood outside to take around the hat. It
was then that I saw Mr. Punch and Judy
again. He was standing holding a tree
up with his back and looking as though
he was prepared
for a good laugh.
He drifted over
when he saw me.
“Goot look,” he
said.
“If I know
Skinny,” said I,
“we’ll need some-
thing a lot stronger
than a little thing
like good luck.”
The performance
began. The curtain
swung to one side,
and there was
Punch wobbling
about the stage,
while Skinny’s
voice was tearing
the air to pieces.
I’d be praising it
Repetition as an aid to memory.
up if I said it was rotten. It was pretty
hot outside, and I could imagine how
Skinny must feel cooped up in that hen-
house. It was a shame to think of Skinny
sweating just to earn an honest living.
I tried not to.
Well, I judged half-way through the
proceedings was the right time to wander
around with the hat. That was when I
got my first surprise. The crowd had
developed to quite a fair size by this
time, but did that have any effect on the
hat? It did not. By the time I’d finished
the first round the collection had
amounted to ninepence in halfpennies. I
went round again. This time I got two-
pence-halfpenny, and the performance
was nearly finished. I didn’t know what
1 was going to say to Skinny.
My fears were realised when Skinny
looked into the hat.
“What did you do with the silver?” he
asked.
“Listen, Skinny,” I said, “this is going
to come hard —there ain’t no silver. The
hat holds the entire profits for the open-
ing performance.”
I thought Skinny was going to throw
a fit. He looked at me and he looked
at the show, with a bitter look in his
eye. Then he brightened up suddenly.
“Maybe,” he said, “it’s kind of early
yet.”
“Maybe,” said I, not too enthusias-
tically. Over on the other side of the
ground I caught a glimpse of Mr. Punch
and Judy shambling along as though he
owned the world. It made me think of
our nineteen pounds and the futility of
life.
But worse was to come. About an
hour later Skinny crawled under the red
velvet again, and after I’d carried the hat
around a few times I could see there
wasn’t likely to be much improvement in
our financial condition. It looked as if
our nineteen quid was out on long-term
loan.
A ND then the arm of the law chimed
in. I saw the copper when he was
fifty yards off. I didn’t like the look of
him, so I stuck the hat under the Punch
and Judy and the fivepence in my pocket,
and tried to look as though I was one of
the crowd.
The copper marched right up to the
show and lifted the velvet. Punch did
a dip from the front of the stage and
vanished. The next moment Skinny was
crawling out.
“You got a license for this?” said the
copper, swinging his hand in the direction
of the show.
I saw Skinny swallow hard.
“I left it in my bes’ suit,” he said, try-
ing to make it sound like the truth.
“You better come along with me,” said
the copper, looking very happy about it.
“I’ve got a spare cell that’s just your
size.”
Skinny gave a look at his theatre.
“You can leave that,” said the cop.
“No one’ll pinch it.”
Then he shoved his arm through
Skinny’s and they pushed off in the direc-
tion of the clink, while I stood there
wondering whether 1 was on my head or
my heels. In the middle of considering
what I would do 1 spied Mr. Punch and
Judy again. He’d been standing round
the edge of the crowd, so he must have
known what had happened. I made a
beeline for him.
“Why didn’t you tell us about the
license?” I yelled.
He made a sucking noise with his
lips. “So ver’, ver’ sorr’,” he said, “I for-
gets. It is bat look. Your fren’, he be
fine thirty bob, maybe, or two pounts.”
“It that all?” said I, jangling the half-
pennies in my pocket. “It’s only about
ten times more’n what I’ve got.”
Do you know that statue thing with a
monkey holding the head of the deceased
in one hand? If you do you know the
kind of look Mr. Punch and Judy held
for the best part of a minute. Then he
said; “I shoult never ’ave part wit’ my
Poonch an’ Joorty.
It has brought dis-
happiness. My art
—it is deat, an’ my
soul is fill wit’ sor-
row. Your fren’
is in chail. It is
my fault. I like
fix things. I buy
my Poonch off
you, an’ you get
your fren’ out of
chail.”
I could hardly
believe my ears.
“Well,” said I,
when I’d recovered
a little, “if that’s
the way you feel
about it, don’t let
me stand between
you and your art.
The show’s yours for eighteen quid, an’
it’s hardly been used.” ,
“I’ll gif you two pounts,” said Mr.
Punch and Judy.
“Two pounds!” I hollered. “You’re
not right in the skull. Why, you moth-
eaten”—
“Your fren’ is in chail,” said Mr.
p 'inch and Judy, without batting an eye-
lid.
“But I’m not in a lunatic asylum,” I
chaffed back at him.
“All right,” said Mr. Punch and Judy,
“I’ll make it free pounts.”
Well, what could I do? There was
Skinny behind the bars, and something
had to be done about it. By that time
I was pretty well satisfied that we’d never
draw nineteen pounds from our per-
formances. *
“I’ll take the three,” I said.
IT was an easy matter to fix Skinny’s
bail, and presently we were stepping
out into the sunlight. Skinny looked at
me when we got out.
“Where’d you get the dough?” he
asked.
I told him, and the things he said
made me wonder what kind of a man
Mr. Punch and Judy’s father had been.
There was nothing left for us now on
the picnic ground, so we headed towards
the ferry. We were half-way there when
we bumped into one of Skinny’s old
cobbers —Rusty Nailon. He greeted
Skinny like a long-lost brother, and then
asked for the loan of a quid. You
should have heard Skinny laugh.
“Listen, Rusty,” he said, “I just
been thrown into gaol. I just lost me
means of livelihood an’ me faith in
humanity, an’ you ask me for a quid.”
“Sure,” said Rusty, “I ain’t a snob.
But whafs the strange language I ’ear
you talkin’? This ain’t the real Skinny ;
this ain’t the Skinny I used to know,
what ’ad a ’eart of gold.”
“It ain’t,” said Skinny bitterly, and told
him why.
Well, you should have heard that feller
laugh. It started off as a giggle, but you
couldn’t tell what it was when it finished.
It was louder than the “Anvil Chorus” on
a wurlitzer.


. ' 137 •» '" N-v\
<S3
CKJncy
JV'\>
7 SO*
4 I^^!
.^JI
1L
HISTORIC
OBELISK
This Obelisk, situated in Macquarie Place,
Sydney, was erected in 1818 to mark the spot
from which all principal roads in the Colony
were measured. At that time the Colony of
New South Wales embraced the whole of the
present States of Queensland, Victoria, and
Tasmania; about half of South Australia and
the Northern Territory and New Zealand.
Almost within a stone's throw of this Obelisk
was the first office of the Bank of New South
Wales, which had opened for business in
Macquarie Place, Sydney, a year before the
Obelisk was built.
From these early days in the history of the
settlement, when the great agricultural, pas-
toral and dairying districts of Australia were
unknown territory, the Bank of New South
Wales has played an important part in the
development of the country's resources.
Pioneering with the pioneers the Bank con-
tinually opened branches to provide banking
facilities in new areas and to-day the Bank
has 765 branches most of which are situated
in the country districts of Australia and New
Zealand.
*4
212 A-1936
ESTABLISHtO 1817
Travel Through
CANADA or U.SA.
TO
ghe
Corona^ 11
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S, "AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
“No,” he said, when he got his breath
back, “it ain’t the real Skinny. It ain’t
nuthin’ like ’im. Fancy bein’ took in like
that. Know ’ow many times he’s sold
that Punch and Judy outfit in the last
six months—ten. You make eleven. An’
it always comes back.”
Skinny looked sick.
“It would’ve been all right if only I’d
’ad a license,” he said.
“Yeah,” said Rusty, “he’d ’ave ’ad to
wait till nex’ week before you sold it
back. That’s unless you think five bob
a week is good money for bawling your-
self hoarse in a padded cell. An’ five
bob’s all you’d have copped in a week.”
“But,” Skinny chimed in, “I see this
Punch and Judy collect the best part cf
a quid for one set-up.”
“That was his demonstration,” said
Rusty. “He always does it. I’ll bet he
even let you carry the hat.”
Skinny nodded.
“Then,” said Rusty, “you must’ve seen
’is family on the job. He’s got a wife
and kids an’ about two dozen relations.
That’s where the big money came from.
They’re the come-ons. An’ who do you
think tips the copper off that there’s a
new man in the show business?”
Skinny kicked savagely at a stub of
grass. “You needn’t tell me,” he said
bitterly.
Superstition—or is it?
PLANCHETTE
BY HAROLD MERCER
PLANCHETTE had always appeared
something of a joke to Tom Peters.
And it was only as a joke he attended
a seance at which the queer little con-
traption, the pencil at one end resting
upon a pad of paper, wrote the answers
to the questions of those who placed their
hands upon it.
Merely for a joke Peters, in his turn,
put his hand on the little frame. It
fidgeted under his touch.
“You must ask Planchette a question,”
someone prompted.
“How am I going to die?” asked Peters.
Even some of the laughers checked
their merriment. This was throwing a
challenge into the face of Providence!
Peters knew his question would create a
sensation, and enjoyed making it.
Planchette jerked
about spasmodi-
cally. Distinctly on
the paper, when
it finished with
a fl ou r i sh, was
the one word
“Violence!”
The group whose
faces were bent over the table around
him gave a gasp. Peters felt the neces-
sity of maintaining the jest as a jest.
“When?” he asked, with assumed
bravado. Planchette moved again.
“That’s plain enough!” someone cried
with a finger on what had been written.
“It says June 24, 1936. And what’s this
other word? It looks like ‘Midnight!’”
Peters would not have admitted to
anybody the profound sense of relief he
felt. The whole affair was a joke to
him ; certainly a prophecy of death to
occur in twenty-six years could be quite
an easy joke.
The war came. Peters enlisted.
“The war will have to last until 1936
before it finishes me,” he used to say
laughingly. He had been in the habit of
jesting like that about the prophecy even
before the war ; his survival through all
its dangers may have helped to fasten an
unacknowledged real belief upon him.
To feel that one had a certain tenure
of life for twenty, fifteen, ten or even five
years was, in a way, comfortable.
But when 1936 came it was different.
Peters might tell himself that the Planch-
ette writing was all a foolish joke ; it
could not dispel the gathering terror in
his heart as he found January changed
into February, and February, March
and April flying.
THE lighted face of a clock stared
mockingly at Peters as he looked out
of a window. There seemed derision in
the hands as they pointed to the time—
-11.30. And 12 was the death hour.
That morning Dr. Burton had put him
through a medical examination and had
told him that organically he was good
for another twenty or twenty-five years.
“Something’s upset you, man!” he had
exclaimed on his arrival. “You’re
ghastly, and shaking, too. What’s
wrong?”
“I’d like you to give me the once-over
first, doctor. We’ll talk about things
afterwards.” Peters had stuck to that.
Burton was giving him a final examina-
tion of his heart when he became startled.
“Good heavens, man, what is wrong?”
he demanded.
“That blasted clock!” exclaimed Peters.
The timepiece on the mantelpiece was
still chiming the hour. Every time a
clock struck now it was a reminder to
Peters of swiftly-flying time. As he
dressed he began his explanation.
“Now look here, old man,” said Dr.
Burton gently; “sit down quietly and
look at the matter reasonably. I’ve heard
of these planchette writings; I’ve also
heard of table rappings—all that bunk.
When people get together intent upon
experiencing manifestations, they will get
some, somehow. When you were work-
ing that planchette your mind, either on
your own inspiration or impressed by the
thoughts of others bent on a joke, guided
your hand in scrawling that word
‘Violence.’ Then, in the same way, you
put down the date —a comfortably far-
distant date. And, because that date has
arrived, you’re letting a little trick in
mental or nerve mechanics worry you so
much that you send for me in case
violence may mean a sudden collapse.
Let me assure you, old man, you’re as
sound as a bell. All that’s wrong with
you is that you’ve let this idea take pos-
session of you. Been worrying over it
for weeks, perhaps?”
“Ye-es. As a fact, I have.”
“Well, you’ll laugh to-morrow, when
the fatal day has passed.”
Strangely it stuck in Peters’s mind that
the doctor had used the words “fatal
day.”
“I’ll call at the chemist’s and get them
to send up a tonic that will brace up
your nerves a bit; and, as for to-night,
I’ll give you a sleeping draught”
“That’s no good,” said Peters with
apparently restored cheerfulness. “I’ve
invited a few friends along, and I can’t
very well go to sleep with friends in the
house.”
“So much the better. Keep your mind
off this absurd business, anyhow. I bet
you can’t think of anyone who would
want to harm you.”
“No ; 1 can’t.”
“Then forget it!” cried Burton briskly.
“Enjoy yourself to-night, and forget a
silly fear. There’s nothing to worry
over.”
IT was easy enough for the doctor to
tell him to forget the planchette ; it
was hard to do the forgetting. He had
been for days like a condemned man
counting off the days to his execution.
Yet here he was, a hale man ; popular,
too —there was no one likely to wish him
injury. Even if burglars came, he could
lock himself in his room, avoiding them.
Life was more valuable than any goods
they might take.
Peters told himself this, time and
again; yet oppression hung over him.
It was futile to attempt to lose himself
in a book ; he had failed to rivet his
attention on the paper that morning.
After the doctor had gone he took it up
again, determined
The chiming of the clock once more
brought him to his feet with jumping
heart. Another hour gone!
He strode to the clock and, with a
peevish action, put the chimes out of
commission. Not a single line of what
he had read remained in his mind.
The whole day passed like that; his
thoughts overridden by that nightmare
fear, in spite of every interest he sought.
With painful care at each crossing, as he
looked up and down for fear of cars,
he had made his way to the bowling
green. When he left, he could hardly
remember the men with whom he had
spoken. Only Danvers —it was a remark
by Danvers which lashed the dull ache of
his fear to a positive pain.
“One o’clock! ” Danvers had said. “I’ll
have to get home to lunch —friends com-
ing. By jingo, how time flies!”
Time did fly, in spite of the painful-
ness of moments. One o’clock —eleven
hours to go!” was how Peters’s heart
registered an echo to the exclamation of
Danvers.
Billiards in the afternoon, after a
lunch that was a nightmare, was equally
a failure as a distraction. Something
seemed to be dragging at him, telling him
he was wasting time when he ought to
be setting his affairs in order. He hated
to think of that. It was pandering to the
panic that had taken possession of him.
HE was standing on his verandah when
a clock in some house opposite began
to strike the hour of five. His heart
jolted afresh. Seven hours only !
And then six; and then five! It was
impossible to avoid keeping the grue-
some tally. He was glad when his
friends arrived ; but even they brought
only a partial forgetfulness. To enter-
tain them, talk to them, was an effort,
with his thoughts dragging back to his
fear. They noticed the worry upon him,
and their looks were curious. It was
one thing explaining the situation to your
doctor ; another entirely to put it before
these people, whose sympathy might
have covered a secret derision.
Even when he flattered himself that he
was free from the nag of the terror, it
was suddenly restored.
“I say, Peters, that clock of yours has
stopped,” said Pritchard ; and he looked
at the watch on his wrist. “It’s gone
nine o’clock!”
Only three more hours!
And then the Sampsons. “Jim and I
will have to go, I’m afraid. The children
have gone to a party, and we arranged
to pick them up,” said Mrs. Sampson.
“It’s ten o’clock!”
Two more hours —two only!
He tried to ignore it. They were a
bright crowd, used to taking possession
of his house and amusing themselves.
That gave him opportunity for a quiet
talk with Palmer, the one man there
to whom he cared to speak in confidence.
“What’s the matter with you to-night,
Tom?” Palmer asked. “Look how that
whisky’s shaking in your hand!”
“I’m under sentence of death,” said
Peters with a forced laugh.
“Doctor?”
“No.” He hesitated, and then he
plunged into the story.
“What’s the use of troubling about a
foolish idea like that?” demanded Palmer
robustly.
“That’s easy to say. I’ve said it my-
self a hundred times to-day. The fact
is, the idea won’t be got rid of. If I
wake up to-morrow well and alive the
spell will be broken ; but”
“Now, 100k —what’s likely to harm
you? Nothing! If you like —I pass the
police station on the way home —I’ll call
in and ask them to tell a man off to
watch the house. I’ll say some suspicious
characters have been hanging about.
That’ll stop the only possibility.”
“I had hoped that you would hang on
until after twelve.” said Peters.
“Right, I will!” said Palmer heartily.
“And so will some of the others. We’ll
make an all-night session of it.”
After that it seemed ominous, the
working of a malevolent fate, that the
party should break up early. Peters’s
parties usually lasted late ; to-night the
guests all had some excuse for going.
Perhaps the atmosphere, lacking its usual


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EXTRAORDINARY REDUCTIONS
IN
nWENCINC WlRrt
II IK *ENCE STANDARDS
WIRE STRAINERS
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES* LIMITED*^
FENCING WIRE
Record Sales mean bigger buying—
hence we are passing on the Savings
to the public.
WELDMESH AND HINGE-JOINT
FENCING for Sheep, Lambs, Cattle
and Pigs. We have reduced prices
tremendously. Now range from 19/-
roll of 5 chains.
K WIRE AND CHAIN WIRE—A 10
per cent, reduction for cash.
WIRE NETTING up to 5 per cent,
reduction, according to quality.
NEW REDUCED LIST OF EACH OF THE ABOVE ON APPLICATION.
HIBISCUS WIRE— As Sole A gents, no other firm can supply. Send direct
to us, and save Middlemen’s Profit.
Bg. Hibiscus Galv. Wire 1,6/- per cwt.
I 2 |g. Hibiscus Tested Galv. H.T. Wire, 1 coil runs -I 500 yards x
13001 b. B.S. £24 per ton; 25/- per cwt.
12-2'g. Standard High Tension, 1140 B.S £l9 ton
Coil of 1500 yards 20/-
12ig. Hibiscus Barb, made in our own factory. You get direct factory
prices. Coil of 440 yards from 17/6 per coil
ON WIRE AND NETTING AND MOST GROCERIES WE PAY FREIGHT
FREE BY BOAT TO MAIN QUEENSLAND PORTS AS FAR AS CAIRNS
CEMENT British Portland, 95/- ton of 24 bags, or 4/3 per bag.
GALV. CORR. IRON New British B Grade, about 28g.; 6ft. 2/- and
Bft. 2/6 per sheet. No other firm can supply, as we take entire
output from the works.
MANTLE GAS LAMPS 200 to 300 c.p. We recommend: Coleman Junior,
49/-; Hasag Petrol Lantern, 35/-, Kerosene, 45/-; Hibiscus Lanterns,
45/- each; Table Lamps, 45/- each.
COTTONSEED MEAL This great feed is twice as rich in Protein, the milk-
producing element, as Bran or Pollard, yet actually costs LESS.
Only £6/17/6 per ton of 20001 b., or 7/6 per I 001 b. bag.
HIBISCUS STOCK LlCKS —Safeguard the health of your stock by using
Hibiscus Licks. A good lick makes all the difference in time of feed
shortage. 40 x 501 b. blocks to the ton.
Sulphurised Blocks, £ll per ton; 6/6 per block.
lodised Blocks, £l2 per ton; 7/- block. Write for full list.
Hibiscus National Stock Lick in bags, £1 0 per ton.
Hibiscus Special Ewe Lick, in bags, £l2 per ton or 12/6 per bag.
LOWEST ALSO FOR: Dover Stoves —No. 7 60/-, No. 8 70/-, Piping Free. Water-
boring Plants, £150; Water Piping; Garden Hose from 4iu. at sd. ft.; Farm and
Station Gates from 3ft. at 10/6; Saddlery; Furniture; All Groceries; Crown
Guaranteed Paint, all colors, 10/6 gallon ; Linseed Oil —Haw 4/8, Boiled 4/10; Wliitelead
reduced —No. 1 10/6. Genuine 16/6 281 b. keg; Zinc reduced —No. 1 10/-, Genuine 14/-
281 b. keg; Mascol White-ant and Wood-preserving Oil, Brown Color, 4gal. tins, 12/-
tin or Igal. tins 5/- tin; Bath Heaters from 16/- to £B/10/-; Kerosene Boom Heaters,
32/6; Queen Stoves —No. 6 39/-; No. 7 45/-; Horse and Cow Bugs—Special lines, .7/6
and 15/- each; Adzes; Axes; Saws; Feruhooks; Pruning Shears —Special New List
now available. Write for it and see the big savings. Shearing and Camp require-
ments—Tea Urns, 4gal. with tap, 15/-, Lanterns, Cutlery, Frypans, Stretchers and
all to comply with latest award.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. IT WILL SAVE
YOU POUNDS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade and Ambulance), Brisbane.
geniality, had deprived them of theii
desire to Stay. And then a phone call
came for Palmer. His wife, a chronic
invalid, had taken a bad turn ; she
wanted him at home.
“I’ll come back if 1 can, said Palmei
awkwardly. Peters knew that the queru-
lous invalid would see that he didn t.
“Anyway, I’ll drop in at the police station,
as I said. Put that idea out of your
mind, old chap ; you’ll be all right.”
The last of the others went on his
heels.
ONE hour to go.
“You won’t want me any longer,
Mr. Peters?” queried his housekeeper.
“No—yes,” said Peters, suddenly
changing his mind. “I wonder if you
mind, Mrs. Hansford, waiting up for a
while—just in case anyone comes back.
Mr. Palmer said he might. Until a little
after midnight—l2.ls would do. I don t
like troubling you.”
“Oh, it’s no trouble. You’re not feel-
ing too well, sir? If I might suggest a
tonic, there’s nothing like”
“I’ve got the one Doctor Burton sent
me. He sent a sleeping draught, too,
didn’t he? You might mix it for me.”
But when she handed it to him he fur-
tively threw it into the grate. That was
because he dreaded to open a window
to throw it into the garden. Of all things
he did not want to sleep—until the fatal
hour was past. He felt that he would
be able to sleep well enough when the
ordeal of the night was over. A con-
sciousness of his cowardice was upon
him as he began to ascend the stairs. He
was flying from terror, leaving a frail
old woman to face what he feared. He
slipped a revolver from his desk drawer
into his pocket before he went.
“The house is locked securely?” he
asked, with a foot on the stairs.
“I always see to that,” returned Mrs.
Hansford.
What an insupportable terror was upon
him as he entered his room! He could
have shrieked out against it, like a fright-
ened child. The blind was up, and the
clock in the tower seemed to grin at him
—malevolently, derisively.
It was 11.30. Half an hour of torture
before he could hope to put aside the
horror superstition had placed upon
him!
He shrank back from the window in
the act of approaching to let down the
blind. Here was a loophole for disaster.
Some murderous maniac with a gun in
his hands might seize the opportunity for
a killing if his figure showed in the win-
dow. He switched off the light he had
just turned on and stood in a dark-
ness only relieved by the pale light of
the moon.
His heart throbbed furiously, painfully.
A new idea came to him. If it was pos-
sible that anyone should have evil designs
upon him he would trick him —or them.
He tossed cushions upon the bed, pull-
ing the clothes over them to give the
impression of a sleeping form. Then he
stole soft-footed from the room, closing
the door behind him.
He half expected some attacker to
spring out from the darkness; but, swift-
footed, he moved across to a seldom-
used guest-room. The light gleamed as
he touched the switch, showing the room
to be safely empty. He turned the light
off again, locked the door and leaned
against it, panting in sheer fear.
This room had the same aspect as his
own. It seemed to him that the lighted
clock-face was stooping to leer at him
through the window. Its hands were
surely derisive fingers, pointing out to
him the swift passage of time to the hour
that had become so dreadful. It was
close upon the quarter to now.
All foolishness, of course. Only an-
other fifteen minutes and the spell of
terror would be over and he could laugh
at his fears.
His heart stopped suddenly ; then it
beat more furiously than There
was undoubtedly a step —a man s step-
on the stair, a step stealthily made, as if
by one who did not wish to be heard.
So the wild improbability had hap-
pened after all! His ear against the
door panel, he heard again the soft fall
of a foot. He heard the handle of his
door turned and the faint creak the door
made as it opened.
Somebody had entered his room. But
who —who? What had happened to
Mrs. Hansford?
As he listened with a desperation so
intense thqt it seemed his heart was
making a drumming that might drown
other sounds and betray him, he clutched
his revolver tightly. Fear filled each
second with dreadful agony. Again he
heard a soft footfall. Peters recognised
the faint creak of the loose board out-
side his doorway. Another door was
opened as softly as the first.
Peters threw a swift glance at the clock-
face. It was more jeering than ever;
there was a sort of demoniacal triumph
on it. Seven minutes to!
He knew now that Planchette had
written truthfully. Midnight on this day
was his death-time. The ruse by , which
he had delayed the marauder was only
lengthening time to fulfil the prophecy.
Everything had worked to that end. Of
what use was resistance? It was only
prolonging the agony of seconds that each
held a year’s torture.
And then the handle of the door
against which he was pressed moved
stealthily. There was a gentle pressure
which the lock resisted.
Peters’s heart froze with horror; the
cold sweat covered him. A quick glance
showed him that the last minute to the
hour had arrived. A shot rang out just
as the chime ,in the lighted tower began
to toll the midnight hour.
UUJHAT the deceased had told me in
the morning,” said Doctor Burton
at the inquest, “worried me. Having
had a late call elsewhere, I decided to
look in upon him before I returned home.
Mrs. Hansford, hearing my step on the
verandah, opened the door for me. She
seemed to be expecting me, and relieved
that 1 had come. Hoping he had gone
to sleep, and fearing to disturb him, I
went upstairs softly ... I would say that
he was goaded to insanity by a super-
stitious fear when he shot himself.”
Brief Yarn of the China Boats:-
THE MADMAN
BY WILL LAWSON.
THE Chagtar was gliding over a
smooth sea inside the Barrier Reef,
her clipper bows lifting a smooth
roll of water that broke into soft foam.
It was just after seven bells, and the
captain was enjoying his after-dinner
coffee when the sharp sound of a revol-
ver shot came from the bridge. He set
down his cup, muttering an apology to
the others, and ran up on deck.
“What’s all this?” he demanded of the
mate, who stood with a revolver in his
hand.
“There’s a Chink out on the jib-boom
taking pot shots at the bridge. There
he goes.”
A bullet whined over their heads, and
the mate raised his weapon.
“Hold on!” the captain shouted, push-
ing his arm aside. “He might be an
important passenger just a bit doped.”
“An’ you might be an important cap-
tain.” The mate stepped back as an-
other bullet whistled over his head.
“That’s as close as can be.”
“What’s his big idea?” the skipper
asked. “Is he mad?”
“He says we're
following him.
He’s right out on
the end hanging to
the fore - topmast
stay.”
“How following
him?”
“I dunno. That’s
what he’s been
yelling at us. Says
he wants to go his
own way and we’re following him.”
“Mad as a rabbit,” the captain snorted.
“Tell the boatswain to go and get him.
Say I want to talk to him.”
“No good me go,” the boatswain said
when the mate gave him the captain’s
order. “He kill me. Got gun.”
“You go tell him captain wants him,”
the mate insisted. “He come.”
The boatswain went, and, hidden by
some deck cargo, he jabbered in Chinese
towards the figure on the jib. Soon the
Chink came gingerly in along the boom,
darted past the boatswain and up the
ladder to the bridge.
“Whaffor shoot?” the captain de-
manded.
“Ship follow me, that why. I want go
China, and always ship come, too, and
bad men in ship.”
“Oh! What men?”
“This ship no good,” the Chinese said.
“All time mens play card, make evely-
one play. All time I lose. On’y got four
bundled poun’ left; all other gone. I go
mad.”
“That’s it, eh? You go mad and shoot
ship because bad man cheat you of
money?”
“You put me in hosplital,” the man
pleaded. “1 mad. Take gun, put me
in hosplital. 1 give you bundled poun'.”
The captain turned to the mate. “Go
down and see what’s what,” he said.
“Don’t say anything about this ; just find
out quietly.”
When the male had gone the Chinese
took from his pocket a roll of notes and
pressed it upon the captain. “You keep
safe.”
Presently the mate returned.
“All’s quiet on the coolie deck,” he
said ; “only a few there playing for small
stakes. I think this Chink’s gone goofy.”
The Chinese must have thought his
chances of protection were vanishing.
He suddenly darted along the deck and
jumped overboard, screaming as he fell
into the sea.
“Holy snakes!” the mate shouted.
“Man overboard! Port lifeboat.”
He was throwing the patent lifebuoy
over as he shouted. Its light gleamed
pale in the darkness as ii passed astern.
At the mate’s cry the third had stopped
her and starboarded the helm. The
steamer was swinging in a wide circle as
her way carried her on, while the boat
dropped to the water, with ropes squeal-
ing in the blocks.
The crew bent to their oars, and the
boat was soon alongside a terrified
Chinese, who clung so tightly to the life-
buoy that they had to drag it into the
boat with him. Along the steamer’s side
lines of excited faces showed as their
owners watched the rescue and chattered
in Chinese.
“There’s nothing for it now but the
strait-jacket,” the captain said. “Take
him to the cell and fix him.”
THERE was little gambling for the re-
mainder of the voyage, a fact which
puzzled the mate. But he concluded that
perhaps the Chinese were afraid of the
captain’s wrath.
Nearing Hong Kong the captain
ordered the madman to be brought to
him. “Well,” he said, “by rights I should
send you ashore under arrest.”
“Please, no,” the man begged. “I not
mad now. ] get better. Not mad any
more. Give me my money, please.”
The captain threw the notes to him.
“All right. Get out!”
The Chinese hurried off.
When the ship berthed at Kowloon
the captain stood near the gangway
watching the passengers go ashore and
shaking hands with saloon and second-
class travellers. As he stood there a
Chinese, a regular passenger on the line,
spoke to him, pointing to the madman,
who stood on the wharf waiting for his
luggage. “That man a bad man. He
cheat and win all money, then go mad
and shoot and jump overboard and you
lock him up. So we get no chance win
money back, nor have any money to play
since Thursday Man’.”
“But he only had £400.”
“More like four t’ousan’ poun’s. He
hide it first, then go mad. Now he rich
man.”
The captain scowled and walked to-
wards the mate. “Next time there’s a
blasted Chink on the jib-boom potting at
the bridge see that you get him.”


_2
n
m
<44
r
Ol
Avoid the winter cold and, in addition
to a delightful sea voyage, see the
Mekes (Native Dancers), Fire Walkers,
Native Bazaar, Display of Hibiscus
Blooms and the Island Night’s Enter-
tainment at the Grand Pacific Hotel.
" STRATHAIRD "
leaves Sydney, August 7
FIRST SALOON AND TOURIST CLASS
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively,
tree oi exchange. '
p & o
PLEASURE CRUISES
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO LOCAL P. & O■ AGENTS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o) a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Anon.; Permission to send corrections to
entry for S. H. Prior Memorial Prize has been
granted... .T.H.Y.; Come, come! Do you
really regard “sheep-dog” as a passable rhyme
for “leap-frog”? ... .J.S.: Repetition in every
fourth line makes too much for monotony....
Z.W.: A shade too boyish... .1.H.: The Ballad
Competition is over and done with. There’s
no hint of balladry in yours, anyway....
J.R.8.; They all miss—not narrowly, either....
W.S.P:
The poet raves of summer skies,
Of sunset’s golden glow,
Of verdant hills and gurgling rills—
Not here he doesn’t L.H.W.: Quite unsuit-
able... .A.S.M.: Long, rough, ill-rhymed and
pointless... .R.G.W.: One verse, which may
answer the purpose:—
I may as well send you something in
From the dismal depths of my dark despondence,
If only to give the others a grin—
In the anguished “Answers to Correspondents.”
. ...L.H.: True, it has “some little merit,”
but hardly enough for print W.C.P.: They
don’t rise out of mediocrity F.K.: Series of
unresolved questions won’t pass as a poem....
G.W.-S.: Music might carry it off, but as verse
straight it can only be carried out E.M.F.:
Failed only on a third reading N. 8.;
Bumpy. Read as much good verse as you can
for a fvhile... .Emm: Not taken with any of
that lot J.F.H.: Crudely written... .K.N.:
Heroic prospector ended up in the office
morgue G.F.H.: Much too gruesome....
W.L.: Both are unconvincing F.H.WJ.
(Eng.): Nothing but rocks for your tale
of London docks... .Trevdee: Rabbit-trapper
skit 100 wobbly E.K.8.: Cricket yarn
below standard... .J. 8.: First part was
good, but the snap ending lost its spring....
No-liability: 100 wordy; an you would
please us, compress, sister, compress ... . L.C.:
Court atmosphere right, but herd of relatives
gives it a muddled air....E.T.: Written well,
but horror is piled on too thickly J.T.:
Good style, but don’t like the story: and set
your figutes nearer home S.G.McD.: Bird-
of-paradise shooting yarn isn't convincing....
A.H.L.: If you hit on a decent plot you’ll
make it, but so far you've missed F.K.: A
bit too melodramatic A.G.: “The Burglar’s
Boy” silenced with a jemmy A.L.M.; That
plot has been dug over too many times....
R.T.; We substituted diamond dust for the
love-philtre in your hero’s drink S.T.W.:
Like the bushfire you describe, it just went out.
. ...K.L.-S.: Suggest you send to knight Park-
hill your story of foreign agents, naval intelli-
gence officers and R.A.A.F. flying boats on the
Roper River... .J.1.R.: That style might get
through with a stronger plot A.J.C.: Not
in our line, but keep at it H.W.S.: Cul-
tured wrestler and repressed spinster won’t
work out their destiny in these pages....
J.H.R,: Don’t like it, but try again... .S.M.:
No haven for your daughter-ridden ex-police-
man .... K.M.S.: “Harleywood History” not
for us 1.5. F.; Not up T.A.: Ghost
stories have to be very good ; yours isn’t....
H.F.J.: We feel for you, but we can’t help it.
. ...H.A.L.: Smoke-oh stuff drawn out too
long A.S.; No space for philosophical
bushmen.—A.K.W.: You make heavy work
of it... .0.W.: Off our beat... .F. 8.: Material
there for Abo. and Society pars., but it’s indi-
gestibJe in the slab H.S.W.: Nothing in it.
. ...C.L.: Can't believe it....L.L.: Not inter-
ested in “smells,” not even that fragile violet
fragrance of some ironbark eucalypts “so
evanescent that its power over your seeking
senses is everlasting”... .W.K.: You stretch
the long arm to breaking point.... R.S.C.:
Too obvious.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.A.0.: Crude and scratchy, and the gag
is a non-starter.... F.K.C.; The parachutist
landed in the basket... J.J.N.: Has some
merit; keep on. ... R.J.M.: No corner which
it could fi11....J.M.D.: No hope for picture
of weird little men with inscribed balloons tied
to their lips.... A.H.: Take more time over
drawings... .P.M.: Why doesn’t the horse throw
a shadow?... .N.D.; An untidy batch of very
amateurish drawings and gags that have long
lost their freshness.... R.H.: Progress is slow,
but you should see print within a couple of
years....L.L.: Petrified prisoner and half-trans-
parent parson were both ordered home....
W.H.S.: Failed to amuse, though drawings show
distinct promise. .. .C.M.: Cannot make out
whether you are for or against the new tariff,
but can state with certainty that you’re a poor
artist.... R.F.M.: Picture of gent, holding his
head under his arm commanded our attention,
even though no explanation accompanied the
picture... .A.F.8.; Gags started an epidemic
of yawning throughout the office... .H.C.:
Nice sweep to your linework, but figures are
badly proportioned F.W.: Pity the goats
didn’t eat the sketch... .S.C.: You have yet
to master the art of foreshortening... .C.T.:
A fine example of what we don’t want....
A.H.J.: Always prepared to buy gags, even
though drawings fall short.... R.J.: Your
efforts will have to make a return transconti-
nental journey E.P.: Admired the senti-
ments but not the “works of art”... .J.G.:
The colored gemmun bears no resemblance to
an Australian abo H.P.: Almost crossed
the threshold.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
U.S.A. financial figures make Austra-
lian Treasurers gasp. Government ex-
penditure in the late financial year
reached $8,900,000,000 ; the deficit was
$4,800,000,000 and the national debt has
soared to $33,750,000,000. And misfor-
tune still dogs the country. Drought is
scourging the wheatfields, which in pre-
vious seasons were infested with rust,
and in parts half-blown away by fierce
and prolonged winds.
* * #
“Centurion”: Mechanising the Imperial
army has given the office wallahs a great
chance to spread themselves. In the past
the jargon they have used for centuries
in orders and other service documents
has been a mystery and a sealed book to
the uninitiate. Once when the soldier
went anywhere he entrained and de-
trained or embarked or disembarked.
Now, if he travels by air, he emplanes
and deplanes, and when he has to use
mechanical transport he embusses and
debusses. I suppose when the regimental
police have to clear the canteen on pay-
nights—if the necessity for that still
arises—they decant it. But most of all
I am concerned to know what the R.M.S.
does in place of “getting it off his chest”
as of yore. Does he decurse or deblas-
pheme himself, or what?
j|« i'fi %
“Turoar”: Despite assertion to the
contrary (B. 24 /6 / ’36) Warner Bros.
were guilty of an anachronism in using
the flag they did in “Captain Blood.”
The Act of Union in 1707 did more than
make the Union Jack the national flag
of Great Britain; an unmistakable
alteration was made in the design. In the
Jack of 1606 the white border surround-
ing the St. George Cross is a mere
margin or fimbriation. Queen Anne’s
advisers decided that the white border
should be increased to the width still
maintained in the flag. Anyone who
compares the illustrations or the two
flags in Cumberland’s History of the
Union Jack will notice the difference.
If the Jack hoisted by Blood in the
picture is not the Union flag of 1707, it
must be the present Jack, in which case
the anachronism is more glaring.
* * * *
“Nahin”: That Indian civil surgeon
who took particulars of a condemned
man’s parents, village, caste, etc. (B.
24/6/’36), while the patient waited on the
drop would not have lasted long in the
I.C.S. I knew. All those details would
be on the man’s charge sheet before he
was tried, and also on the warrant tor
his execution. In any case a mere pill
wallah had nothing to do with them,
that being the job of the gaol governor.
SjS 'l'
“Becks”; As an improvement on dog-
racing and tin-hares an English village
is laying down a track on which cats
will scamper after electric mice. Some
doubts are expressed as to whether the
toms will agree to race or whether they’ll
prefer to fight or yodel, but the experi-
ment seems worth trying. Personally I
would suggest, instead of a straight
course, a 100-yard track on the minnie-
golf principle, with frequent obstacles
to keep up Felix’s interest. The electric
Mickey might run through drainpipes,
jump through windows, dodge behind
chairs and finally disappear through a
hole in the corner of the pantry, leaving
the fastest Felix baffled. If sharp practice
creeps into this new sport it may take
the shape of concealing saucers of milk
along the track to lure the runners from
the path of duty.
* V * *
“Kaloa”: When Tommy White, the
Federal Customs Minister, faced a
hostile deputation of New Guinea
planters who suggested that he withdraw
the shipping ordinance which aims f.t
excluding foreign ships from outpost-
trading in the Mandate, the only reply
the Minister could think of was to ask in
a breathless whisper what the attitude of
the planters would be if they knew that
the ordinance was “a national emer-
gency measure.” The deputation re-
plied that it would withdraw its objec-
tions. The bill was hurled on to the
tables of the Rabaul and Moresby Coun-
cils during the last week in February.
The members were given no reasons for
its sudden appearance. Official mem-
bers pushed it through both “Parlia-
ments” in the teeth of bitter unofficial
opposition. Four months afterwards the
ships at which the measure was aimed
are still doing their rounds, and they will
continue to operate for some months to
come —until tenders have been accepted
for a new monopoly service. It doesn’t
sound like “emergency.”


'V hort Story
c Writing
t&ree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism bv Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I. C.S. School o£ Journalism
110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Always
carry a
small tin in
pocket or
purse
HUDSONS
EUMENTHOI'
JUJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
Our Service Department
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
readers. . „ , . , •
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
mist be confined to one subject. . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to - Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Two strong youths, 18 and 16, require work
together on sheep or cattle station, anywhere.
One can fence, press wool and crutch, and is
learning to shear; other is willing beginner.
Refs.—2oB7.
Carpenter, exp. with bridges and heavy con-
struction (foreman), repairs and alterations,
handy with painting, bricklaying, concrete work
maintenance, windmills, pumps, etc., has driver s
license, wants employment, anywhere. —2098.
Words of Brunton Stephens’s “Our Chinee
C00k.”—2091.
Copy of the account of the Radcliffes of
Derwentwater in Whitaker of Whalley (1818).
—2083.
To buy The Eucalypti Hardwood Timbers
of Tasmania, published by Gray Bros.,
Adventure Bay, Tas. —2077.
To exchange Tangier pea seed for Phalaris
tuberosa or Mitchell grass seed. —2116.
Information Sought.
(1) Can an umpire give a batsman out with-
out being appealed to ? (2) Which umpire
has the greater rights during the progress of a
match ? (3) Which umpire can call a “no-
ball” 3—2081.
(1) Law 46 decrees that “an umpire shall
not order a batsman out without being appealed
to by the other side.” (2) The umpire at the
bowler’s end must be appealed to before the
other umpire in all cases except in those of
stumping, hit wicket, run out at the striker’s
wicket, or when, owing to .obstruction, the
umpire at the bowler’s end is unable to give
a decision and appeals to the umpire at the
batsman’s end. (3) If either umpire is not
satisfied of the absolute fairness of the delivery
of any ball he can call “no ball.”
* * * *
(1) How many Test matches have been played
between Australia and South Africa, and the
result ? (2) What Australians topped 500 runs
in these matches, and their figures? —2llB.
(I) Twenty-four Tests have been played, of
which Australia has won 18, S’Africa 1, drawn
5. (2) Best Australian batting scores were:
A ggre-
Ilinings. Not Out. gate. Average.
W. Bardsley . . 17 1 982 61.37
Y. Trumper . . 15 3 900 75.00
D. Bradman . . 5 1 806 201.50
C. Hill . . . . 13 1 752 62.06
W. Armstrong . . 13 1 091 57.58
S. McCabe .. 13 2 621 66.45
O. Kelleway 12 2 548 54.80
J. Fingleton 8 1 518 74.00
* * * *
Is there any record of two bowlers taking
all the wickets in a Test match between Eng-
land and Australia ? If so, what were the
details ? —2131.
Yes, once. At Birmingham, May 27-29,
1909, G. H. Hirst and C. Blythe routed the
Australians for 74 and 151. Their averages
were: —•
First innings—
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
Hirst . . 23 8 28 4
Blythe . . 23 6 44 6
Second innings—
Hirst . . 23.5 4 .58 5
Blythe . . 24 3 58 5
sfc sfc tk j{:
Origin of the name of Smithfield Market in
England. How long has it been in existence ?
—2067.
Smithfield is a corruption of Smoothfield,
the name the locality bore in ancient times
when it lay, an open space of several acres,
just outside the city Walls, and was used for
jousts, tournaments, fairs (including the famous
St. Bartholomew’s Fair), executions and public
burnings. In 1614 it became a horse, sheep
and cattle market, but the growth of the city
rendered the removal in 1855 to Copenhagen
Fields necessary; on the site the City Corpora-
tion erected a central meat market (opened
1868) as well as a poultry and provision market.
* * * *
Heights of Mount Chimborazo and Mount
Everest ? —2016.
Chimborazo, 20,500 ft.; Everest, 29,000.
These heights are not exact to a foot or two;
there are variations from year to year, Everest,
for instance, having been computed at one
survey to be 29,141 ft. and at another 29,002 ft.
* * *
(J) Explanation of the following violin in-
scriptions: (a) “Stradivarius, Fecit Cremona,
Faciebat Anno”; (b) “Antonins Amati”; (c)
“Guarnerius” ? (2) Did any of the three
makers have partners ? —1972.
(1) (a) Antonius Stradivarius (1644-1737),
Italian violin-maker, was a pupil of Nicholas
Amati, one of the third generation of that
famous family of violin-makers of Cremona, and
succeeded in improving on his master’s work by
modifying and beautifying the designs, as well
as perfecting the quality of the varnish. Fecit
Cremona means “made in Cremona.” Fade-
hat Anno, “made in the year,” should be fol-
lowed by the figures of the year. (6) Antonius
Amati (1589-1627), son of Andrea, Was founder
of the Cremona school, (c) The elder Guar-
nerius, Andrea (1650-95), and his sons Giu-
seppe (1690-1730) and Pietro (1690-1725), con-
stituted another family group who became
famous for the manufacture of fine violins.
(2) Antonius Amati had his brother Geronimo
as partner. Andrea Guarnerius, as stated, had
his two sons and later a nephew, Guisseppe del
Gesu (1683-1745), greatest of the family.
(I) What standard of education is required
to become a stockbroker’s clerk ? (2) How
does one become a stockbroker ? (3) Where
in Melbourne could I get training in the busi-
ness ? —2072. - ■ ,
(1) No fixed educational standard, but the
intermediate certificate is generally accepted
in Sydney as the basis for a clerk applying loi
a position in a stockbroker’s office. (2) Usual
procedure is to obtain experience with a stock-
broking firm. Graduation is usually through
the clerical side of the office, dealing with con-
tract notes, sale entries, etc. The next step is
to become an authorised clerk representing the
firm. In this capacity the employee is privi-
leged to attend the daily calls and buy and sell
on behalf of his firm. In time he may gam
an opportunity to join as a junior partner or
to set up in business for himself. Occasion-
ally a seat on the Stock Exchange may be
bought by a man possessing no previous experi-
ence in this line of business. He is then, ol
course, dependent largely on the services and
experiences of some member of his staff. Any
person possessed of sufficient business and
financial standing may submit his name for
membership of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Nomination and seconding is necessary. (3)
Only means is by taking employment in a
stockbroker’s office.
j|: - * * *
Some aboriginal words meaning plains
country, flat or windy land ? —2060.
Awaba means “plain surface”; Cudgewa,
Merrigum and Woolandoon mean “little
plain”; Warrangesda means “a camp on flat
country”; Kielli, “extended plain”; Tugger-
anong, “cold plain”; Kadina, “plain of the
lizards”; Geegetup, “flat with kangaroos”; and
Graman, “big plain.” Booligal means “windy
place.”
'l*
Is Paranah an aboriginal word ? What is its
meaning, and was there an early sailing ship
of that name ? —2035.
Nearest native word to it is Paruna, mean-
ing “stopping at a certain place”; Para in
aboriginal dialect is given as river or creek.
Cannot trace any early sailing ship bearing the
name.
* , * * *
I have a silver penny a little smaller than a
threepenny bit, dated 1860. Was it ever in
currency, was it minted for any special occa-
sion and what is its collector value ? —1998.
The coin is a Maundy penny (silver) of
Queen Victoria. If in perfect mint condition its
collector value is 6d.. The “Office of the Royal
Maundy” is a charity and began in the reign
of Edward 111. Following this ancient custom
Maundy money is distributed to old, poor and
infirm men and women, as many of either sex
as there are years in the King’s age. The
money is in lieu of clothing and provision
formerly given, and is distributed every Maundy
Thursday, the day before Good Friday.
The money is in gold and silver, the gold
being the ordinary currency. The silver coins
are specially struck in pennies, twopences,
threepences and fourpences. Maundy silver
coins are legal tender but are never issued in
the ordinary currency. King Edward VIII.
has performed the Maundy ceremony.
* * •-!! *
(1) Details of the comet of 1882? Is it true
that it nearly grazed the sun’s surface ? (2)
What would be the result if a comet did actu-
ally hit the sun ? —2047.
(I) The Great Comet of 1882 was first seen
on Sept. 7 of that year, and when discovered
was quite close to the sun. It was so bright
that it could be seen throughout the day by
shutting off the direct rays of the sun from
the eyes, and it remained so visible from Sept.
17 to 22. This Great Comet made a very close
approach to the sun. In its perihelion passage
it passed between the sun and the earth within
three-quarter million miles from the sun, well
within the solar corona. After perihelion it
was seen that the nucleus had been broken
into several parts by the enormous attraction
exerted on it by the sun. It became a brilliant
object in the early morning sky, with a tail
many millions of miles long. The tail was
of a peculiar shape, the end being like a
Turkish scimitar. It remained a naked-eye
object until early in December, and was fol-
lowed in telescopes for several months. It
will probably never again return, or if it does
it will not be for several thousand years. (2)
If a comet did strike the sun, the effect would
be no more than a small meteor striking our
earth. But a comet could never reach the sun
in a solid form. The temperature in the im-
mediate neighborhood of the sun is so great
that any solid matter in the comet would be
reduced to a gaseous form.
ifi ;j.
0) 1 , hav f 17 Tangye’s A.A. 5-h.p. engine.
What class kerosene should I use? (2) Which
compression plates? (3) Suitable grade of
cylinder oil ? (4) Correct setting of exhaust
valve ? (5) Any other information ? —1971
(I) Any make of repute. (2) If in a high
altitude and working on a heavy load, use
the largest plate alone; if working on a light
load, use all the plates. (3) A light gas-
engine cylinder oil as recommended by the
Shell or Vacuum Oil Co. (4) The setting of
the exhaust valve adjusting screw in the exhaust
lever should be approximately l-16th in clear
o f J alve - stem when the valve is seated
(5) It the engine is giving trouble get in touch
with E. Hassett and Sons, Bourke-street Mel-
bourne.
(1) What foods must be eaten to. supply the
12 mineral salts ? (2) Must some of each be
consumed every day for perfect health ? —1946.
The requisite salts are supplied in a normal,
well-balanced diet. With these there is also a
vitamin requirement; both are essential to
health and growth of the tissues. About nine
different metals are necessary for the various
purposes of the body, their combination form-
ing many salts. Sugar and fats contain no
mineral elements; meat and cereals such as
white bread contain only a restricted amount.
In milk all the essential minerals, with the
exception of iron, are well represented, but
raw vegetables and fruit constitute the main
source of the mineral supply. Choose from
the following as required and tolerated: Milk,
butter, egg-yolk, mutton, beef (with fat), fresh
fish, cod liver oil, green vegetables, wholemeal
cereals, peas, beans, lentils, fresh fruit, nuts,
yeast, etc. Milk, eggs, meat, cheese and fish
are good protein aliments.
* * * *
(1) Is there a cure for bronchial asthma,
and what treatment is advised? (2) Is it
advisable to have superfluous hairs on the face
treated, or does this increase the growth ? What
is the cause of such growth ? (3) Are there
openings for dental nurses, and what is the
rate of pay? —lB3s.
(1) Much depends on the cause, ft may
be due to a neurosis of the respiratory appa-
ratus ; inheritance and certain reflexes also
predispose. There is usually an exciting
cause to which the victim is susceptible; the
attack seldom occurs spontaneously. For this
condition a vaccine may be prepared. If the
vaccine is associated with bronchial disorders,
an expectorant mixture may be prescribed
with ephedrine or one of its derivatives; but in
all cases medical supervision is essential. (2)
Electrolysis is usually advised. The effect is
permanent; scarring is reduced to a minimum.
In the brunette type, tendency to slight growth
is natural. Gland changes in adults past
maturity may precipitate the trouble. (3) De-
pends upon qualifications. Communicate with
the Trained Nurses’ Assoc., 185 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
How to eradicate dog ticks from the ground
around kennels ? —1844.
Clean up all litter and surface dust, and
burn. Burn or thoroughly boil all bedding.
Scrub the kennels thoroughly from top to
bottom and apply a boiling 5 per cent, dis-
infectant solution liberally to all parts,
thoroughly soaking the kennels and adjacent
ground. Soak 2oz. of derris powder in 1, gal.
water overnight, and next morning add suf-
ficient soap to produce a good lather. Wash
the dogs in this.
* *i* * *
In a low-lying damp portion of my prop-
erty what would you suggest growing to en-
liven the drabness ? —2074.
Arum-lilies ( Asthiopica and llalicuni ), with
their green and variegated foliage and white
flowers, will do well; so will cannas, agapan-
thus and iris-lilies. Perennial plants which can
be tried include physostegia, rosemary, salvia
and shasta daisies. A drain made through the
land to carry off surplus water will prevent
sourness of the soil and assist growth.
* t- * ♦
When is the best time to propagate carnations
from cuttings? How to do it? —1790.
June or July. Short pieces of last year’s
growth pulled from the sides of the plant and
having a little “tail” will root readily in boxes
or tins containing sandy loam. Where the
cuttings are to be placed in the open garden
add plenty of sand to the soil. Cover with
glass for a few weeks until new growth starts,
and water only sufficiently to keep the soil
damp. Where pests (aphis, etc.) are prevalent,
sprinkle lime on the cuttings at intervals.
-* * * *
Best method of growing bush orchids in a
fernery or bushhouse ? —-1781.
Cut the section of the limb to which the
orchid is attached and place in a sunny posi-
tion, free from winds. If the limb cannot
be cut get as much of the bark as possible
and fasten it to a log of wood about the same
size. Orchids will grow and flower in wire
baskets or earthenware pots containing a mix-
ture of charcoal, leaf-mould and a little sand
and earth. Cover the surface with spagnum
moss, bush moss or thick hessian to keep
the soil damp
* * *
Best method of growing roses in a very
sandy district near Sydney, and names of some
red and white varieties suitable ? —1927.
Dig out beds of the sand, line the sides with
sheet-iron and refill with heavy, soil, decayed
cow manure, grass, straw and rubbish. Many
gardeners use oil-drums (which take a long
while to decay) and set them in the sand
after making holes for drainage. Suitable
red roses are Etoile de Hollande, General Mac-
arthur, Laurent Carle, Red Radiance, War-
rior and Red Letter Day; white varieties worth
trying are Maman Cochet, Mrs. Herbert
Stevens, K. A. Victoria, Frau Karl Druschki
and Molly Sharman Crawford.
* * * *
At flowering-time this year my chrysanthe-
mum plants were badly affected with mildew.
How shall I treat them so that the disease will
not be troublesome next year ? —2055.
As soon as possible, cut off all top growth
and spray the root-clumps with strong lime-
sulphur solution, repeating the treatment every
month until the suckers are taken for setting
in the open garden next October. Mix into
the beds to be used a good dressing of sul-
phate of potash or spray with weak per-
manganate of potash. Plants which will not
yield to this treatment should be discarded.
(1) Value of the 6 d. Australian kookaburra
stamp issued about 20 years ago ? (2) Exact
date of issue ? (3) Designer ? (4) How does
the printing of this stamp differ from that of
the present 6 d. ? —2066.
(1) Catalogued by Orlo-Smith at 55., used
and unused. (2) August 25, 1914. (3) The
design was copied from a drawing by Blamire
Young. (4) The 1914 issue was recess printed
from plates engraved by T. S. Harrison,
whereas the present issue is printed by the
letterpress process from plates prepared by J.
Ash.
Brief Answers.
J.G.C.: (1) The length of barrel of cither
shotgun or rifle does not necessarily influence
ihe killing distance. (2) There is no advantage
as far as killing power goes in having a shot-
gun with a 36in. barrel as against a 30in. barrel.
(3) Smokeless powder is approximately 25 p.c.
faster than the old black powder C.N.D.:
Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne... .C.M.T.: (1) Could be
paid into London bank. (2) No. (3) Get in
touch with H. S. Holt and Co., Goldsbrough
House, Macquarie-place, Sydney... .K.J.:
Write British Medical Association, 135
Macquarie-street, Sydney.. . .8.L.; Budgerigars,
which was compiled on behalf of the Aus-
tralasian Budgerigar Council... .5.0.: Yerran-
derie (N.S.W.) has a population of 231
M. (1) The height to the top of the spike
on the ball surmounting the tower on the Bris-
bane City Hall is 319.4 ft. above spring low-tide.
Footwalk level is 34.16 ft. (2) The relative
height of Craigston Flats is 253.2 ft. (taken at
the highest point on the roof structure). Foot-
walk level is 152.2 ft D.G.S.; Write to Air
Board, Defence Department, Melbourne, for
pamphlet “Conditions of Entry to Commis-
sioned Rank in the R.A.A.F.”... .H.S.: Cube
root of 2 is 1.259 etc. Know of no publication
that gives such roots to more than three
places. To compute any of them to 50 places
would take more time than this page can
spare. Ascertain method of extraction from
a treatise on advanced arithmetic and work
them out. . . .W.R.M.; Average expense of
obtaining an A pilot’s license (private) through
any of the established training organisations in
the Commonwealth is approximately £4O. For
a B license (commercial) cost would depend on
time taken to carry out required number of
hours’ flying before passing tests. Each
applicant must do 100 hours’ flying for
a commercial license, the average cost of
which might be stated at £2 per hour.
G.M.C.: It is not known where parts of
Pou du Ciel aircraft are obtainable in the
Commonwealth. The flying of this type of
aeroplane is prohibited in Australia.... A. 8.:
“Canning Industry,” an English periodical, and
“Canner,” “Canning Age” and “Canning
Trade” —all three American... .E.J.: No.
. ...J.D.: Get in touch with the Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 43 Margarel-
street, Sydney A.H.M.D.: Get in touch with
Jones and Joseph, Ltd., 235 Clarence-street,
Sydney... .V.8.M.D.: Art of Rowing, Sculling
and Punting, by “Coach” (Is. 6d.), Rowing and
Sculling, by “Stroke” (9d.), American Rowing.
by Kelley (275. 6d.), Oar, Scull and Rudder,
by Brittain (12s. 6d.) A. 5.8.; From Mc-
Pherson’s Pty., Bathurst-street, Sydney....
AT.: From J. Danks and Son, 324 Pitt-street,
Sydney L.F.P.: See “Truth” for October 7,
1928... .R.L.L.: Imperial Chemical Industries,
Ltd., 251 George Street, Sydney 8.A.5.:
No portion of the proceeds will be subject to
Q’land State income-tax or income (unemploy-
ment relief) tax under the Acts as at present
constituted, unless a profit is made on the
transaction... .C.E.D.: The N.S.W. wages tax
payable on 30s. per week and food is 6d. per
week... .C.R.8.: The amount of superannu-
ation received is taken into consideration when
determining a claim for a military service
pension... .8.H.: The area of Tasmania, in-
cluding islands, is 26,215 square miles, or
16,778,000 acres. It is about the same size as
Scotland, and rather less than one-third of
the area of Victoria... .T.L.: Douglas Sladen
was born in London in 1856. He arrived in
Australia in 1879 and was Sydney Uni.’s first
Professor of History. He was the author of
numerous works and joint author of Adam
Lindsay Gordon (1912). Sladen also edited
Australian Ballads and Rhymes (1888), A Cen-
tury of Australian Song (1888), and Australian
Poets, 1788-1888. .. .C.K.: Presume you refer
to Johann Kruse. He was born in Melbourne
in 1860, went to Germany and was professor
at the Academical High School, Berlin. In
1896 he went to London, where he founded the
Kruse quartet, performed chamber music and
conducted festivals. .. .C.S.; Birraginbil means
“place of leeches”; Kungala, “to shout”;
Mangoplah, “native singing”; and Yikurreri,
“stagnant water” —all are N.S.W. abo. place-
names... .S.P.: The heir to the throne is
styled “the heir apparent” if a son or grandson
of the sovereign; if any other relative, “the heir
presumptive”... .F.M.: The Yeomen of the
Guard and the, Warders of the Tower are both
known as “Beefeaters.” As to the term of “Beef-
eater,” it is questioned whether it is a cor-
ruption of the French hqffetier (a buffet-keeper)
or a slang designation from their portly
appearance... .T.A.; Currie (King Island) has
a population of 332....J.C.: Get in touch
with the Repatriation Department, Sydney ....
N. : Archer. Russell is a South Australian.
He has had published two books, Sunlit Trails
and a Tramp Royal in Wild Australia; a
third, Gone Nomad, will be published shortly
by Angus and Robertson.... W.R.D.: Rose
Scott died at Woollahra, Sydney, on April 22,
1925. .. .A.G.: Deaths from acute and chronic
alcoholism in Australia have been decreasing
rapidly. The number of deaths in 1934 was
42, with a rate per million persons of only
six. The rate for the period 1911-15 was 38
per 1,000,000 persons... .P.Q.; Australian
Spiders and Their Allies, by W. W. Froggatt
(2s. 6d.)... .H.R.C.: You do not give full
details. In Bloomfield v. Bloomfield (9 W.N.
N.S.W.), where a lease for an indefinite period
was given, the tenant paying the yearly rates
and taxes and a monthly rent, the Court held
the tenancy to be from year to year. An agree-
ment such as you refer to would probably be
held to be void for uncertainty and a yearly
tenancy would be implied... .W.R.: It is
possible, but he would have to pass a pre-
liminary examination in English composition,
arithmetic, algebra, geometry, geography, Eng-
lish history, Latin and a modern language:
become articled for five years; pass an inter-
mediate examination in the laws of England
and constitutional law, and a final examination
embracing the laws of wrongs, of real and
personal property and the practice of convey-
ancing, also the practice of the higher and
lower courts, of insolvency, criminal law and
practice and equity. The fees would approxi-
mate 50 guineas (Many others mailed.)


mi
€\
7 ilia
%'Mt e
4
1
m
%
!#
v
SSX
VI
Cj
r.
>.
%
t
"l
J
c
«
cr
0
>.
®f)
7
■
i«
/
«n
i
3#S
i
0
4
■
ir
BS^/
JUDGE: “Order! Order!”
PRISONER: “I’ll take Stout, yer Honour.”
CONSTABLE: “O.K. SHEAF!”
TOOTH’S
BOTTLES
HALF BOTTLES AND BABY
BOTTLES


FOR CAULFIELD.
Leamington Hurdle: Sixteen
Annas; next, Brilliant Son.
Murrumbeena Handicap; Jack
Horner ; next, The Wizard.
Godfrey Watson Steeple: Santa
Casa ; next, El Damaroyal.
Kambrook Trial: Gay Circle;
next, Desert Chief.
Malvina Welter: Sithon; next,
Bite Again.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Fernacre ; next,
Orient Orb.
Canterbury Handicap; Serlodi;
next, Tapestry.
Ashbury Handicap: Greenback ;
next, Lynford.
SPO RTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Trainers’ troubles are not confined to
the idiosyncrasies of horses and jockeys.
Russell, the trainer of The Genius,
wanted the owner, Mallick, to let his
horse go to Melbourne in plenty of time
to get accustomed to climate, water and
country, so that he would have every
chance to win the G. N. Hurdle, in which
he had a mere 9st. 81b. in a poor year.
Mallick refused, and precious days
passed ; then he changed his mind, and
The Genius reached Melbourne a whole
four days before the race was to have
been run. As it happened, there was a
postponement for three days, but that
did not improve the position very much.
Public opinion of the horse’s prospects
in the fortunately unusual circumstances
was reflected by the price: 12 to 1 in a
field of eight. Nevertheless The Genius
ran a great race: set a pace which
cracked up Sixteen Annas, who tried to
go with him and lost chiefly because he
was strange to the jumps and took them
wide. Victory went to Pooley Bridge
(5 to 1), who is a good hoi'se in heavy
going; Full Charge was second and The
Genius third. The showing of the
favorite, Brilliant Son, disgusted his
Westralian owner, Harry Boan, and
B.S. has been sold.
On paper The Genius had a mortgage
on the Australian Hurdle with lOst. 11b.,
but Mallick won’t let him start. The
animal has been brought back to Sydney
and is to be spelled for some months be-
fore being put in work for “the Metro-
politan and the Melbourne Cup” and the
Ascot Gold Cup or something. Poor
Russell!
An unfortunate sequel to the G. N.
Hurdle was a breach of friendship be-
tween Neil McKenna, owner-trainer of
Sixteen Annas, and Hynes, who rodd the
chestnut and had looked after the gelding
in Melbourne until McKenna could come
over from Sydney. McKenna was out-
spoken in his comments on the manner
in which Sixteen Annas had been ridden.
Hynes afterwards stated that Sixteen
Annas was pulling so hard that the only
wise course was to let him stride along.
He resented the censure of McKenna,
and their racing association has ended.
McKenna admitted that Sixteen Annas
could not have won in any circumstances
with list. 51b. on such a heavy track.
He thought the race would have been a
gift for The Genius if that gelded son
of High Art had been ridden with re-
straint and the track had been firm. Neil
accounted for The Genius hanging out
at the turn into the straight for the' first
time by the jockey urging him along at
that point. McKenna illustrated his view
of the matter by pointing out that at
Gosford horses go right off the course at
the straight-entrance unless the boys on
top “sit against them” until they have
rounded the turn.
Three-year-olds are impressively wind-
ing up a great season for them. On the
second day of the Grand National meet-
ing, the Gooparle Handicap was won by
Mutable (8 to 1), by Drake—Varium, and
the Braybrook Handicap by Jack Horner
(2 to 1), by Captain Bunsby—Cherry Pie.
Betting on the Braybrook was uncom-
mon. There were four starters, and the
bookmakers offered 2 to 1 each of three,
the other, Petau, being at 8 to 1.
Both Nationals were won by compara-
tive newcomers. Neither was thought of
as a jumper 12 months ago. Certainly
autumn successes pointed to Pooley Bridge
being a strong National possibility, but
Santa Case may be said to have just
emerged from his shell as a ’chaser.
Strangely enough, each is a five-year-old
—young as jumpers go.
Pooley Bridge proved himself the best
hurdler of the year by landing the
Doutta Galla on Saturday with 12st. He
made a couple of faulty jumps near the
end of the journey, but soared over the
last obstacle in great style and simply
smothered the pacemaker, Cold Spring.
Trained by Alan McPhee, who used to
be a champion buckjump rider, Cold
Spring had easily vanquished Etymology,
African and others on the middle day of
the fixture ; but, even with a puli of 291 b.
in weight, he was unable to extend
Pooley Bridge.
Pooley Bridge is trained by Bert Foul-
sham, bearer of a name that has run
through Australian turf history for gen-
erations. Bert’s father, Ike Foulsham,
still a trainer at Randwick, prepared
Rhesus for a victory in the first V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle, run 54 years
ago. Among the famous gallopers he
handled were Trenton, Niagara, Malua,
Wild Rose, G’Naroo, Lancaster, Woorak,
lolaire, Kingsburgh and Chatham. Full
Charge, runner-up to Pooley Bridge in the
National Hurdle, is in the stable of Fred
Foulsham, a nephew of Ike foulsham
and brother of W. Foulsham. whose
successes as a flat-race jockey included
the Doncaster Handicap on Eurobin and
the Caulfield Cup on Violoncello.
The manner in which Draconic lost the
National .Steeple was reminiscent of Sir
Prim’s downfall in the Australian Steeple
of 1919, which the Sydneysider Algous
won after Sir Prim had set up an
apparently unassailable lead. Alick Ful-
larton experienced wretched luck in
being on the second horse in both
Nationals this year ; each time he looked
“home and dry” until the eventual
winner came along. On Draconic Full-
arton adopted runaway tactics. His
mount was 25 lengths ahead of Santa
Casa at the half-mile post, but Santa
Casa inherits indomitable courage from
David, his sire, and fairly wore down his
older rival, scoring, all out, by half a
length.
It was Santa Casa’s maiden victory as
a ’chaser. He was second-favorite at fives.
He belongs to and is trained by J. P.
Devine, a former amateur horseman ; on
Devine’s behalf the gelding was selected
and bought by Bill Burke from a mob
of untried horses on Boabul.la station in
the Riverina. Regan, who piloted Santa
Casa, was a show-ring horseman. He
gained some experience as a jockey in
India.
Despite the substitution of brush
fences for stiff obstacles only five of the
13 runners completed the course. Pac-
tolus broke down early in the hunt, but
both Welbeck and the 50-to-l pop, Wan-
conner, were travelling well when they
came to grief at the abattoirs in the
second circuit. El Damaroyal had got
rid of his rider at one of the riverside
fences. The only jumping jockey to be
at all severely injured during the after-
noon was L. J. Hynes, who sustained a
broken collarbone when Eastern Chief
crashed with him in the Trial Hurdle.
Strobus, the Trial Hurdle winner,
started at 15 to 1. He had failed badly
in the National Hurdle; however,
superior stamina enabled Strobus to
easily beat the favorite, The Shaughran.
Possibly the last of the progeny of
Bright Steel to be carrying silk, Sabreur
(9 to 2) annexed the Footscray Steeple.
Bright Steel sired the 1917 Melbourne Cup
hero, Westcourt. Another of his get was
Bright Plume, the champion hurdler of
1920. Cecil Godby stood to win a for-
tune over Bright Plume in the G. N.
Hurdle that year, but his brother Nor-
man upset the pot with Sandule. Now
in poor health, Norman Godby met many
old friends in the Flemington enclosure
on Saturday.
Memories of Phar Lap were revived
when W. Elliot, who won the Agua Cali-
ente Handicap on him, credited Frank
Godby with the Two-year-old Mile by
squeezing Again (Rosewing—Lagain)
home by a head from Cackle. Those
associated with Again did not forget to
back the gelding, but odds of 15 to 1 went
begging about Petit Fils in the July Handi-
cap, and the son of Beau Fils paid £6 6s.
for ss. in the straightout tote. Petit Fils
belongs to H. R. Telford, who was trainer
and part-owner of Phar Lap. It was
time that the luck of Telford changed
for the better.
* * * *
It’s becoming fashionable to hoot
judges’ decisions on Sydney racecourses.
At Moorefield on Saturday Dudley
Smith suffered that experience when he
declared for Westball (20 to 1) in the
first division of the Kogarah Stakes. Not
the judge but the rider of Cloudy, the
favorite, was at fault. The jockey
allowed Cloudy to move away from the
rails, giving Bill Wedgewood’s stable-mate
a lucky run. It would seem that Coutts
was watching The Darter on the outside
and when she had been beaten at the
Leger took matters lightly.
Naturally the bookmakers were de-
lighted with Westball’s victory. As Full
Wind, a son of Windbag, won the second
division at 15 to 1, and Kurrawid and
Aussie Bee the third and four divisions,
each at sixes, the Kogarah Stakes showed
them excellent results. Kurrawid, who
is trained at Warwick Farm by Ike
Andrews, is a three-year-old, and looks
like making a useful sprinter. He is big
enough to carry almost any weight.
Ten-year-old Poponaise, chosen by
this Page, made hacks of a smart field
in the first division of the Flying-Handi-
cap. He went, out at eights, but there
was plenty of tens. After Orient Orb
and Some Boy had cut at each other the
old noddy from the bush waltzed away
in the straight to score from > the tiring
Orient Orb and Bim Boy. The favorite,
Fernacre, raced well to the turn, as did
Goorka. Fernacre was evidently short of
a gallop., r ,
Ross Saywell gave 160 guineas for
Rose Gem a few weeks ago. Having her
second run in his colors, the. mare —she
is by Rosewing out of Brank—won the
second division of the Flying Handicap,
at 12 to 1. Dazzle was, in charge at the
Leger, but she wilted when challenged by
Rose Gem. Beaupre was third—he is a
likely winner in.the near future. Frank
SpurwayV Gymkhana was prominent to
the turn. ■ ‘ '■. v
Confab (8. to, 1) had too much speed
for his opponents in the Moorefield Han-
dicap. Bob Maxwell outwitted his mates
by taking his charge to the front, dash-
ing him away at the, turns and keeping
enough in reserve to stall off Goosalt and
Lady Baeda. Perron,, St, Globe and
Broccoli were carried- off their legs by
the hot pace. Confab has now won three
races for Mrs. Mary King, of Kensing-
ton, who bought the son of Magpie for
160 guineas.
Another lady, Mrs. Jack Cooper, took
the Carlton Mile with Prowler, who cost
her 90 guineas. The Tamworth Cup
winner went out at sixes; after David
John had been allowed to do the bul-
locking in front. Prowler went away from
his field at the turn. Brown Betty was
placed third as a result of Watson’s rider
failing to weigh in. Newcastle’s Sir Joe
ran poorly.
Eiver Walker, who now has a small
track next to Richmond aerodrome, led
in Überous, a nice son of Heroic —
Desdale, after the first division of the
Juvenile Handicap. The colt carries the
colors of Mrs. C. Galbraith, wife of a
Sydney businessman; he was backed
from twenties to sixes. Hwaiking and
Cliquot filled the places. Rostrim (5 to
4 on) donkey-licked his opponents in the
second heat. He is by Rossendale —
Leitrim.
# - -. * * 3:
Sydney owners and trainers got a sur-
prise last week when they heard that
somebody had pinched open cheques for
£l6l 6s. Bd., money won at the Kensing-
ton meeting on July 4. The surprise lay
in the fact that anyone should think the
poor prizes given by Sydney proprietary
clubs worth taking such a risk as ab-
stracting cheques from a clip in a
crowded office and cashing them at the
bank. Eight cheques disappeared in this
fashion; one for £B3 13s. 4d. and an-
other for £77 13s. 4d. were cashed. First
prizes offered at these racecourses are
nearly always. in pounds, shillings and
pence. In Melbourne the amateur clubs
cut out the shillings and pence and dis-
tribute lots more pounds.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
The round of Melbourne League
matches which had been postponed from
July 4 through rain was played on Satur-
day. South Melbourne, after a strenuous
game, toppled Collingwood from its un-
beaten position. An opening burst by
South put that team well ahead at the
first change, but the Magpies had caught
up by half-time. Even play in the second
half, with South just a little the better,
saw the latter come home by 14 goals
18 behinds to 12-19.
At Carlton the home team, fighting
hard for its chance of getting back into
“the four,” defeated Geelong by 14-21
to 12-17. Nevertheless, the Blues have
to be satisfied with fifth place for the
present, as Melbourne (16-15) had no
difficulty in disposing of Essendon (9-13),
thereby retaining fourth position.
North Melbourne-Fitzroy was a re-
markable game. In the first half, against
Fitzroy’s 3 goals 8 behinds, North could
only manage five points. After half-
time the position was reversed: the
Maroons were kept goal-less while North
added 9 goals 6 behinds, finishing with
9-11 to 3-12. In the other games, St.
Kilda 16-10 defeated Hawthorn 12-15,
and Richmond 15-13 beat Footscray 10-8.
The League premiership table now
stands: South Melbourne, Collingwood
and Richmond, each 36; Melbourne,
28 ; Carlton, 24 ; St. Kilda, 20 ; Geelong,
16; Essendon, Hawthorn and North
Melbourne, each 12 ; Footscray and Fitz-
roy, each 4.
* * .■« ■ , *
Queensland ran N.S.W. close at Rugby
Union on Saturday; led 5-nil through
most of the first half, was in front again
8-6 and finished only four points down,
8-12. That and a 42-3 win over Victoria
by the second side at Parramatta gave
N.S.W, victories in all six of the season’s
inter-State games.
At the Cricket Ground the forwards
cut even, but behind the scrum the
N.S.W, half Gibbons had the edge on
Bennett. Both Queensland tries were
finished by McLean after the whole line
had handled, the winger diving for one
as he was tackled. The N.S.W. wingmen
were denied such opportunities, though
Kelaher was given a couple of runs in
the second half when Richards, had
moved into five-eighth. Twice tries were
lost from the cross-kicks by the winger—
once when the ball was knocked on be-
hind the line and again when a forward
interfered with the full-back after that
man had been beaten.
The second N.S.W. team was better all
round than Victoria. Bridle, the pick of
the Vic. forwards, scored that team’s
only try. N.S.W. put on twelve.
* * * *
Most of the cocksure confidence
N.S.W. Rugby League officials had after
the first Test match has evaporated.
There is really no occasion for panic ;
with Gilbert replacing Thicknesse, and
Hey playing in his proper place at five-
eighth, the Australians will keep Eng-
land’s good lot thinking hard. Ridley
scored six tries for his club (Western
Suburbs) on Saturday, so the winger is
at his top at last. Brown was never
better and never played better. Certainly
the Englishmen are improving; they
tossed Brisbane League 35-13 at the
week-end. One thing some of the Aus-
tralians need to learn is to collar them
from the front.
* * * *
Australia beat Maoriland 10-nil for the
second Soccer Test at Wellington.
(i Continued on next page.)
Germany had an easy win over Yugo-
slavia for the right to meet Australia in
the Davis Cup inter-zone final next Satur-
day. Von Cramm, apparently quite re-
covered from his Wimbledon injury,
dropped a set to Pallada, but Henkel ran
away from Puncec, the No. 1 man, 6-1,
6-2, 6-4; and the pair accounted for
Mitic and Kukuljevic in the doubles.
* * * *
T. S. McKay played capital golf in
beating F. E. Headlam 2 up in the N.S.W.
amateur championship final; Headlam
had defeated the holder, Harry Hattersley.
Three down at the 31st, McKay won the
next five holes, his putting being excep-
tionally good.
* * * *
On the Richmond 'River (N.S.W.)
“Snowy” Burns beat A. M. Fisher for
the Australian professional sculling title ;
three lengths; 20min. 15sec. Burns in-
tends to challenge Bobby Pearce.
* * * *
In the British athletic championships
Australia’s Metcalfe won the hop, step
and jump with 49ft. s|in. —Dickinson
(47ft. llfin.) was second —and the high
jump with 6ft. lin.


No. <>Bll—Two-cell Focussing Flashlight. full chrome
ff-rtSuln Rancp -irtOff rinmnlafo wifli haffoi*!nt
light. Full chrome finish. Range, 1500 ft. OCj/_
Complete with batteries. Price £d*Jl "
No. 4921' —Three-'cell Standard Focussing Searchlight,
Nickel finish. Range, 850 ft. Complete with - -
batteries 11/0
COWLES & DUNN
\tVINCH£ST£K\
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 3388.
WINCHESTER
Dependable Flashlights
HEADLIGHT.
LANTERNS
for Night Shooting.
No. 7924 —Twin-service Heart-
light Lantern, three-cell. Ilange,
350 ft. Complete with
batteries 23 /“
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
July Issue Now on Sale.
SHARES OF MERIT
A Market Review
FORESTRY BONDS AND SHARES
More Developments
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Under the Whip
Greensea is dead. Galloping with a
two-year-old at Randwick one morning
last week, he began to falter towards the
end of half a mile —the distance set. He
completed his task and then fell in a
heap, literally in a line with the judge’s
box, there drawing his last breath.
Foaled in 1925, Greensea was a first-
class sprinter, being on one occasion
backed against the champions at w.f.a.
before it was found that the young ones
were getting too smart for him. Then
he was put to hurdling, and up to two
miles he was the best hurdler N.S.W.
has seen. He won at Rosehill with
13st. 121 b., and at Randwick with
13st. 81b., but the tremendous weights
he had to carry proved too much for
him at last. Greenstead’s best and gamest
son, he raced for eight seasons, and was
first on 25 occasions, second on 14 and
third on six.
Anticipating the question why poor
old Greensea was kept so long at a
dangerous game, J. T. Cush, the owner
and trainer, spoke thus to a “D.T.”
reporter;
Some people say I should have pen-
sioned Greensea long ago. They do not
seem to realise that an old horse is much
better off while in training than when
he has retired to a paddock. In the
stables he gets the best of attention and
feed, and a rug to keep him warm. When
he is allowed to roam the paddock for
the rest of his life, he suffers from the cold
in winter and the flies in summer; and
more often than not he is half-starved.
This is by no means universally true,
for there are owners and trainers who
see that their faithful old animals are
looked after. But it is true enough to
be a disgrace to the turf and to warrant
immediate steps being taken to remove
the disgrace. A small tax added to
nomination and acceptance fees and de-
ducted from prizes would be sufficient in
every State to establish happy grazing
grounds for superannuated racehorses,
with old horse-lovers, also superannuated
—trainers, jockeys and stable-hands—to
look after them. The equipment might
be simple and inexpensive. Names of
Cup-winners have been on the sad lisl
of racehorses, turned out when old and
useless, that died of starvation.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Aga Khan has
sold Blenheim, who has for some time
been standing in France, to an American
syndicate for “something under £50,000.”
Blenheim is by Blandford and won the
1930 Derby. Call Boy, the 1927 Derby
winner, was sold for £60,000. In addi-
tion to this year’s Derby winner, Mah-
moud, Blenheim’s progeny have won
£35,000 since he went to the stud. Mah-
moud’s win should add 25 per cent, to
his fees in the U.S.A.
* ' * * *
“St. Leger”: England’s quaint ex-
periment in running a tote or pool to
tip first and second in the Derby drew
over 200,000 tries. Tickets increased in
cost as the day of the race approached.
Starting at 2s. 6d., they rose to ss. and
10s. The divvy was struck without re-
gard to the price of the ticket and came
to £42 18s. It was drawn by 996 punters,
the five-bobbers, with 677 successes,
coming off best.
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: Questions in the Victorian
Parliament have shown that Richmond
is not the only club in Melbourne which
cannot legally charge admission to local
football matches, Carlton and Fitzroy
being in the same boat. The explanation
is that charges cannot be made to any
part of a public park which is vested in
trustees, but can be at public reserves
not vested in trustees. The difference
between Tweedledum and Tweedledee,
but legally watertight.
Toowoomba footballers have a repu-
tation for bothering visiting sides. The
League clash with the Englishmen was
no exception. After leading at half-time
the Red Mud representatives went down
by 10-8, it being anyone’s match till the
whistle.
“Cash Amateur” : A standing grievance
with English cricket professionals is the
poor pay allotted them for international
tours and games compared with the loot
pouched by Australian “amateurs.” A
faint growl of the same sort has recently
been heard from the English professional
footballers. Australians touring the
North of England get £4 a week with
allowances. The Englanders in Australia
get £1 a week at sea and 30s. in Aus-
tralia, with a trifle extra for wives and
children. Also the Australians divide two-
thirds of the tour profits—£2oo per man
last time. The English whack up only
one-third, the English League taking the
balance; the cut last tour was about
£75 per man.
* * * *
“Gate”: Complaints of insufficient
accommodation for the crowd at big foot-
ball and cricket matches in Sydney are
well founded. Even under present con-
ditions much more room could be made
if the unnecessary “lawns” sloping from
“Jist fan 'im, Bill —’taint worth while startin' repairs!"
some of the stands to the fence were cut
out and covered with seats. I’ve seen
many famous cricket and football
grounds and cannot recall one in which
“lawns” feature, the seats being carried
right down from the back of the stands
to the edge of the arena. The “lawn”
idea seems to be a relic of racecourse
architecture on the lines of courses like
Ascot and Flemington, but they are
recognised beauty and fashion parades.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Yarker”: Australian and English
Rugby Leaguers are discussing renewal
of the “poaching” agreement, which ex-
pires this year. But no agreement can
prevent this sort of thing, and it is safe
to say that quite a flock of Australians
will be invited to play with North
of England professional clubs after the
Englishmen return home. If we could
adopt the English contract and transfer
system all might be well. Under this a
player is not a free agent, but may be
bought and sold by his club, and may
not leave it of his own volition. This
would mean a lot of money. Clubs
would have to pay their players salaries
instead of sharing their cut. To do this
each club would need its own ground
and keep its ain fish guts for its ain sea
maws instead of paying a third of every
gate to the League. In England also
two, and sometimes three, matches a
week are played. Australian conditions
forbid more than one in club football.
Victorian League clubs pay salaries, but
their matches draw crowds rarely seen
in Rugby outside inter-State or inter-
national games.
Up and down like half a yard of
pumpwater the R.U. game at North Syd-
ney oval between Victoria and Queens-
land —the first on record —went to
Bananaland by a point—l 6-15, or four
tries, two converted, to three tries, a p.g.
and a goal from a mark. There was
nothing in it. The Victorians were better
in the pack and the opposition behind it.
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W.R.U., which,
of course, intends to run the whole show
as far as football is concerned, will stage
the 1938 Maoriland v. Australia tourney
for the Bledisloe Cup as a feature of the
150th anniversary spree. The University
club hopes also to have an inter-uni.
battle raging at that time, the teams to
include one from M.L. and another from
Japan. Victoria has been talking of
bringing over a Japanese side next season.
The Nineteenth Hole
“St. Germain”: Henry Cotton has the
reputation of being a bit of a nark. He
lived up to it when, after losing the
French open championship to Dalle-
magne by a stroke, he opened up at the
presentation of prizes. About his mildest
comment was that the money offered for
prizes was “fantastic”—the winner got
£B5 and Cotton £52 —and that if France
wanted to see good players it would have
to offer better money. But the first pro-
fessional in the British open pouches
only £lOO, though a win carries the
world’s championship; and.some of the
Australian money in similar events.
State and international, would hardly
afford a decent meal to a healthy chicken.
“Divot Digger”: St. Andrews is again
tackling the job of evolving a golf ball
which will please everybody, and has
asked the help of manufacturers. The
chief object is to reduce distance of carry,
which is leading to the lengthening of
courses, a job too costly for the great
majority of clubs. Extra-long courses are
also trying to the players ; in the recent
marathon at Hoylake it was noticed that
fatigue was undoubtedly responsible for
the falling-off of more than one player
asked to travel the rounds of 7000 yards
or so. A not impracticable solution, and
one the makers would welcome, would
be a system of handicapping players on
the type of ball they effect. Golfers could
still use their favorite, and the long-dis-
tance swipers could be brought level
with those playing the short and steady-
game.
* ❖ * *
“The McHaggis”: Japan has invited a
team of four Australian professional
golfers to come along and do their best
in March next. The tourists have been
guaranteed £4OO for two exhibition
matches, and will also play a programme
to be arranged. It is hoped the Nip-
ponese will be able to pay a return visit
at the time of the 1938 whirroo in Syd-
ney. A team of Japanese toured the
U.S.A. and had a great reception, with
corresponding gates—so much so that
their tour had to be extended.
“Divot Digger”: Bad
staff work somewhere
threatens to jamb the
S.A. centenary golf meet-
ing and the Australian
championships in Mel-
bourne. The centenary
dates are from Septem-
ber 4 to 26 in Adelaide,
and the championships in
Victoria about half-way
through the Croweaters’
tamasha, the open being
down for September 11
and 12, and the amateur
event for September 14.
Some rearrangement will
have to be made unless
most of Australia’s best
golfers and visitors like
Sarazen are agreeable to
cut one or other of the
big events.
“Sandringham”: The
Victorian Golf Associa-
tion has issued a hand-
book instructing caddies
in the duties and be-
havior expected of them.
They are to get all the
tips off by heart, and so
be “a solace, guide and
helpmeet to a player,”
as a foreword to the
work says. It only remains now for some
caddie to write a book of instructions
on the conduct and general behavior
expected of players.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: The luckiest players
at Wimbledon were the doubles winners,
Hughes and Tuckey, whose survival to
the final was something of a miracle.
They met a worse pair than themselves
in the final, Wilde and Hare. It has been
stated that England never before scored
so well. This is all wrong, as Old Coun-
try players won all five titles often in the
past.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: O’Brien, of America,
who has been responsible for seducing
more than one tennis champion info the
primrose path of professionalism, has re-
newed last year’s offer of a £lO,OOO bonus
to Perry. Perry has refused again. The
young man knows his own business best:
still, he has no profession or occupation
outside those which attach to proficiency


Nature Revealed . . .
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
have just opened up an
unrivalled range of
MICROSCOPES
Focusing, Adjusting and Scientifically
□
Accurate.
MODELS:
Plus 150 magnification, 37-
Plus 250 magnification, 57-
Plus 350 magnification. 12/6
(Complete in Wood Case.)
Plus 450 magnification, 19/6
With three objectives (as
model illustrated).
(Complete in Wood Case.)
Plus 650 magnification,
£7/7/-
With three objectives.
(Complete in Case.)
Plus 800 magnification,
£lO/10/-. '
With three objectives.
(Complete, in Case.)
(Postage Kxtra.)
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
HAYMARKUT, SYDNEY.
IS Hi JJ
m
mm
w
ml
i:}
I
I
m
i:UI
“BIG SAVINGS in . . .
Travelling Time and Loading 99
“Our fourth Ford, the V-8 Utility is
a revelation,” writes an engineering
firm. “This unit is doing the work
of two; its speed and steadiness have
made big savings for us in travelling
time and loading. We have been
able to carry heavy and fragile loads
with absolute safety. Some of these
would ordinarily have been jobs for
a truck.” Ford V-8 Utilities are
designed for modern service. They
provide outstanding performance
with economy and dependability. In
appearance and passenger comfort
they are unrivalled. Important
features include: Safety Glass all
round; Super Safety Mechanical
Brakes; Five 16x6.00 tyres; Excep-
tional loading capacity; and many
features and equipment usually sup-
plied only at additional cost. • Ask
your Ford dealer to demonstrate
under your own working conditions.
Easy purchase terms are available.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
THE: 1930
FORD V ft UTILITIES
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F85.5-7C
at tennis to turn to when his fame is a
story told. Both Tilden and Vines have
made small fortunes in a few years of
professionalism. Perry would be a
greater draw than either.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: I regret to note
that the Australian L.T.A. is persisting
in its endeavor to found an international
tourney for women on Davis Cup lines.
Such a show is more than superfluous.
If overseas women are dying to play in
Australia there are six State champion-
ships and an Australian championship
annually. If our girls must have a bang
at overseas exponents, let ’em go to
Europe and America for the big title
meetings there. To add yet another to
the long list of women’s sport competi-
tions only means further neglect of home
life, more husbands keeping their pants
up with nails instead of buttons and
wearing openwork socks with more open-
ings than work about them, and the
making of fortunes by manufacturers of
tinned provender and keepers of ham-
and-beef and fried-fish shops.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”; Kay and Bromwich have
had some quaint experiences with native
players in Java. Kay tells of four native
brothers who are so alike it is impossible
to tell one from the other. One of them
is much better than the rest of the family,
and there have been uneasy suspicions
that on occasion he has officiated in
singles as one of his less accomplished
brethren. In doubles also some swap-
ping was suspected. One brother had a
poor backhand ; the other was excellent
on the stroke. When the Australians
started to concentrate on the weaker
player they were apt to find that he had
suddenly developed a strong backhand
much resembling his brother’s, but it
had to be left at that.
“Voodoo”: The taint of Hollywood
has reached our tennis courts, A Sydney
paper has been telling how a suburban
player habitually carries a rabbit’s foot
in his pocket. When things are going
badly he takes this out and invokes it
with more or Jess success. The rabbil's-
foot superstition is pure American nigger
and is unknown among British people.
Reference to it in American gangster
films and other products of trans-
pacific culture is frequent, and it would
seem that one more idiotic importation
has rooted in our midst.
Miscellaneous
“Lansdowne”: Put it to the credit of
W. M. Woodfull that his just published
book contains an uncompromising con-
demnation of “barracking.” Too many
cricketers and cricket-writers have been
content to minimise the evil, to find ex-
cuses for it, to feature it as amusing and
impartial, and to advance as some sort
of extenuation that crowds can be just as
vociferously ill-mannered in England.
Some have even contended that it adds
to the attractions of the game. Wood-
full, who can certainly speak with
authority, is under no such illusions.
“Derisive calls not always couched in
moderate terms” —“comments without a
strain of humor”-—“remarks beyond the
pale that have caused players of out-
standing promise to turn to other
summer sports”—“an evil which is in-
creasing alarmingly”—these are some of
his phrases. A little more of this plain
speaking in high places would be all to
the benefit of cricket.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Alan Fairfax, just re-
turned to his native Australia for a bit,
says that Gimblett is the best batsman
he has seen. A tall order, considering
that he has watched Bradman and Ham -
mond, to name only a couple. Gimblett
is sure to come this way, and other cer-
tainties, in Alan’s opinion, are Allen,
Holmes, Verity, Leyland, Hammond,
Duckworth and Hardstaff. Bowlers are
the trouble. Outside Verity on a sticky
wicket there is not a champion in sight.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”; If international
cricket tours were run on the lines
laid down for Australian girls there
would be a merciful falling-off in
the greatly overworked stunts. The girls
chosen for England must not only pass
medical examinations but find their own
gear and £75 for expenses. One can
imagine the catastrophic shock which
would fall on the he-men candidates for
the next English tour if they had to pro-
vide the cash for their picnict
« * * *
“Old Q.”: Brown, of N.S.W., has
signed up with the Queensland C.A, as
coach in place of Christie, fled to
his native Africa. Brown is to get a
job with a motor firm which will bring
him, presumably with C.A. contributions,
£lO a week. He will draw the brass when
playing in the Sheffields and during Tests
or any major match in which he may
figure. The contract is for three years.
Unless the Q.C.A. control improves im-
mensely on past performances it is not
unlikely that Brown will be sighing for
release before that time is up.
* * * *
“Spike”: Hard times have forced the
Americans to cut their Olympic team
heavily. A special steamer was chartered
to fake the team and its barrackers to
the Amsterdam Games. This time 40
cabins have been cancelled. The women
have suffered most, though candidates for
the field games and fencing have also
been pruned down. Australians, recall-
ing the agonised efforts of our own Olym-
pic committee to raise funds, may find
some consolation in the fact that the
Yanks were £30.000 short of the sum
they hoped to raise.
* * * H=
“Blade”; Syd Middleton, a fine oars-
man of other days, who has been living
for years in London, has warned the
Australian oarsmen that they will have
to go their hardest to win at Berlin. The
Swiss crew, he says, made a great im-
pression at Henley, and will probably
down Leander at Berlin as easily as they
did on the Thames. Several other Con-
tinental crews are of No. 1 standard. The
rowing and sculling events begin on
August 11, and the eights will have to
contest several heats over the 2000-metre
course.
“Shrewsbury”: The Rumor of the
classics with her hundred tongues would
have to go on the dole if she had to
compete to-day with the cable corres-
pondents. Fervid accounts of the won-
derful rowing of the Zurich club,
winner of the Henley Grand Challenge,
trumpeted it as a triumph for the “ortho-
dox” style of rowing which “England
initiated and which has been copied
throughout the world.” Now Australia’s
Steve Fairbairn has written the “Times”
to say that for years the Zurichs have
been rowing his style, which Cambridge
has brought into such prominence and
which has fractured all the canons of the
“orthodox” method.
“S’y”: Zurich not only won the Hen-
ley Grand Challenge Cup, but also took
the Stewards’ Challenge Plate. And
Ruth won the Diamond Sculls for the
Swiss. Zurich is the first foreign crew to
take three major events at Henley.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: It seems likely that a
British rifle team Will, be here for the
1938 N.S.W. jamboree, shooting also in
other places during their stay. Though
many qualified to speak on the subject
refuse to attach importance to the pot-
hunting aspect of competition rifle shoot-
ing it has its uses in a country which
resolutely declines to make any attempt
to learn how to defend itself. A rifle-
man at least has to master the three rules
of aiming, and that is a thing that thou-
sands of amateurs accustomed to pop-
ping-off pea- and other rifles in indis-
criminate shooting have no conception of.
* * * #
“Ranelagh”: Two of Goulburn’s Ash-
ton brothers turned out with “The
World” at Hurlingham against an Indian
team. Their side was beaten 9-7, but
P. S. Ashton scored two of “The World”
goals. The Indian team was brought
over by the Maharajah of Jaipur, him-
self one of the world’s best players, and
is magnificently mounted, largely on
Walers.
* * * «
“Ride Off”: In Sydney just now is
Miguel Elizalde, a Spaniard from the
Philippines who, with three brothers, com-
poses one of the leading polo teams of
that part of the world. In all there are
nine clubs in and about Manila, including
U.S.A. army sides, and the game is very
popular. The visitor will probably take
back some Australian ponies, which are
no strangers to players in the Philippines,
and it is not unlikely that he may lay the
foundations of a Philippine polo visit to
this country or of an Australian trip to
the islands.
* * * =l=
“wSpinnaker”: Undeterred by previous
experiences, Sopwith is having another
try to win the America’s Cup. His new
yacht. Endeavour 11, had her first test at
Plymouth regatta, and outsailed all opposi-
tion, including Endeavour I, which proved
herself at least the equal in America
of Vanderbilt’s defender. She was sailed
by an amateur crew, following on a
strike for higher pay by professional
yachtsmen—in itself a handicap, con-
sidering that the American was manned
by a professional Scandinavian crew
gathered together and trained for months
before the race.


Farm Wanted.
PROVED successful farmer, two teams, two
sets plant, deposit, labor, an assured income
later, wishes buy cleared wheat and sheep farm
1750 acres, from 30/- an acre, by next year.
—Apply Box 8, Speed, Victoria.
Missing Friends
CURRIE.—ELLEN CURRIE, born in Vic-
toria, 1881 (daughter of John Adam Currie and
Caroline Mark), or her Relatives. Advantage,
write Mr. TELLER, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
immediately.
BLACK. —Will any descendant of DAVID or
ANDREW BLACK (brothers), both of whom
were blacksmiths by trade and later farmers,
and who were born at Kingskettle, Fife, Scot-
land, and came to Australia about 1871, please
communicate with ARTHUR ROBINSON &
CO., Solicitors, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
LEISURE FOR WOMEN
>URE —the roast’s in the oven and
I’m on my way to Sally’s. That’s
what comes of having a new
McClary with Stabilized Heat.
Inspect at Banks’,
Sydney or Melbourne.
Open Daily
S a.m.
4 4 4 »-fc!
jCCL4^
Late
Sl'on ning
Friday,
9 pan.'
-mm.
M'CLARY ELECTRIC RANGE
JOHN BANKS & SON PTY. LTD.,
324-330 PITT STREET - - - SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
391-403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE. ’Phone; €B3BO.
VISIT OUR EXHIBIT—STRAND BUILD IN G CENTRE—STRAND ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Meat Who Count the Cost
are fully
CONVINCED-
... of what Texaco Motor Oil will do
in ensuring longer and more effective
engine life with considerably de-
creased costs in repairs against auy
other oil.
For your own protection, no matter
wliat car or truck you drive, use
Texaco Motor Oil.
c 'ty :
BRa Hev „
1 *m7 n ' Ce -
dln e s m
,rv ey»
Me ni
Th a
•Si
r ®*«s
S °l Coif/ 4 '*,!,.,
*******?*• *
hjb
DQ S
...
« tJo
'*V?ez»
to
iik »
Ift * e ? Uo U 3 ° ar *'ierl
n S4*^ 0 r ®ai * a f t *e£ Vln l
Pe *Q r»U.. b P* G 1
> Th»
ftp*
»«8
" S ln,
®a n
®n<}
J Hb:
Pnobj
S7‘ <>/■ th
a 0a PM >o ad 3 ,
- -/;_£> a^9 an » ej T *°o,oQo * Br two r Us ty n ' J
esitat ”4£ w^
Peooe 0o
®Jve
fou,.
the
e^9
any
° no '»ie? 7 "'O'-k
“nhe
9 ts
*ith
"r n
°U
r° up
Pt'orj
life
f *lt h
"OCk.
ni c
ol> the
°te
ty Co
“Pc;;,
Cit ? Surv*
'9Je
*EC
v eo
S!?S»* (
.78a
°ld
wets.
*eq Ua
50.276
My Bedford bus has now run
150,000 miles and is in perfect
operating condition, giving no
mechanical troubles or road de-
lays” says P. SHEEHAN, 10
Brunswick Road, Melbourne.
I mm
mmm
“One Sedan has done 86,000 miles
and has never, at any time, had any
repairs, not even a set of new rings.'’
Says GEO. CORLETT, Two Thousand
Private Taxi Co,, 665-7 St, Kilda Road,
Melbourne.
msmsm
« >j
*
m
m
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND
The Trade War
As a grazier concerned, I consider the
Whiskard-Gullett tariff the most stagger-
ing blow that has ever been dealt to
Queensland growers. The Japanese have
carried the market during the last four
years and prevented a collapse. “Aus-
tralia Also Ran” (B. 17/6/’36) summed
up the opinions and feelings of the Aus-
tralian grazier.—F. D. (Q.).
Being a small grower, I was just start-
ing to "te daylight after many difficult
years. Now comes this Gullett stunt;
and we are to be taxed 6d. a bale for
advertising wool which, because of the
Gullett stunt, we may be unable to sell.
Words fail me!— L. G. D. (N.S.W.).
Reproved Again
At a meeting held in the Arundale
Hall, Perth, the following resolution was
passed;
That this meeting emphatically protests
against the reactionary and illogical attitude
taken by The Bulletin in its article “The
Sex Militant” with regard to women’s
work for peace—“ Having no more political
acumen than poultry the ladies can be easily
moved to demand intervention for the
poor, dear Abyssinians or to make his
electorate unhealthy for any Conservative
politician who looks facts in the face."
We submit that political acumen neces-
sitates the maintenance of collective
security, and insist that if Conservative
politicians and pressmen look facts in
the fact they must come to the same
conclusion. — V. Roberts, hon. sec.,
W.A. State Council (Women's Commit-
tee) Movement Against War and
Fascism.
A Stupid Embargo
How can the embargo on machine
tools of U.S.A. origin help the Austra-
lian manufacturer? There are lines in
which the Americans are specialists and
Europeans only copyists. Even British
machine-toolmakers depend on foreign
tools for some work.
If the new “policy” were of any assist-
ance to the development of a higher-
grade of machine-tool manufacture in
Australia one might be prepared to suffer
in silence.
The position in regard to manufacture
of motor-cars is also affected. Does the
Government expect American motor-
manufacturers to start in Australia with
machinery they know nothing about?
Already G.M.H.’s Hartnett has been
refused admission of machines he wishes
to bring in to extend his panel press lines.
Incidentally, how is the Australian motor-
chassis builder to receive any bonus from
the new duties per pound that have re-
sulted in an average reduction in duty
payable of around 40 p.c.?
Apart from the question of quality or
price is the important one of delivery
dates. It is impossible to get a quote for
delivery of British turret lathes under
eight to ten months; the Americans
quote three to four months. Not that
anybody is likely to prefer the Yank
article in this case, but grinders, millers,
etc., are about the same. —J. H. (Vic.).
Anzac Day in Victoria
I was at The Landing and I have
marched on many Anzac Days, I look
upon April 25 as a day to be set
aside for remembrance of a war in which
60,000 Australians lost their lives and
untellable misery was brought about.
Keep Anzac Day as a close holiday—as
a day for consideration of the question:
What have we done since to stop such
another day being necessary in the
national life of Australia? — Prunt (Vic.),
Enter the Conservatives
In B. 24/6/’36, referring to the defeat
of a Canadian plan “to give the Prov-
inces the right to impose direct taxes,”
you say that this country would like the
loan of some of those “Conservatives.”
Why go abroad when there is a good
Australian article to be had?
The first branch of the Australian Con-
servative Association was formed in Too-
woomba last December. It put up a man
in an Assembly by-election for a strong
Labor constituency; besides the Labor
candidate there was a representative of
the now-defunct C.P.N. party, a local
alderman who regularly heads the poll in
municipal elections. Labor won,; the
Conservative almost equalled the poll
of the official C.P.N. nominee.
The founders have decided that they
will go no further afield than their home
town until they can say to the people
that in Toowoomba they have proved
that Conservative principles and platform
are what Australians want.
Plank 2 begins: “There should be free
and equal opportunity to every man to
make the most of his talents to benefit
himself and society.” Plank 3 says:
“There should be one sovereign Parlia-
ment for Australia.” No. 28 of the con-
stitution and rules: “There shall be no
pre-selection of Conservative candidates.”
—For the Toowoomba Conservative
Association (Q.). L. A. B.


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
YOU Will NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age 7 If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Pew offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., ITD„
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House. St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F, J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
»»;J
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. .Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
MOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
the present tone of business is the deter-
mination of people to go ahead and do
as well as they can whatever happens.
Wool prices faded away in May and
June —from an average of 14.2 d. to 10.8 d.
at the finish of the season. It is a
different story from last year, when the
closing note was particularly strong.
Absence of Japanese support has had
dire effect. So our wool cheque fell
short of the £50,000,000 (Aust.) expected
by about £900,000 —not much to poli-
ticians, perhaps, but a great deal to men
faced with the problem of producing
and selling profitably after paying taxes
and other items that help to keep politi-
cians off the breadline.
At £49,100,000 (Aust.) the wool cheque
was up £11,200,000 on the previous
season. The average price was 14.2 d., as
against lOd.
* * * *
“The mill returns, and to some extent
the check sampling, do not confirm the
estimates previously published”—and so
the Lady Shenton (Menzies, W.A.) brings
the curses of more optimistic punters
Trade and Share Prices
The manner of climbing of share prices
in Australia these last two or three years
is suggestive of an ascent in a large
passenger aeroplane ; the general move-
ment has been upward, with disconcert-
ing little dips or slackenings every now
and then.
June 30 has passed, and before long
results of company operations for the
12 months will be on the table. In
most cases they should be an improve-
ment on 1934-35. But in not every in-
stance will the sharemarket be satisfied.
It wasn’t in the case of Australian Glass,
and there have been other disappoint-
ments. Speculation is still a big factor
in share prices.
There are some concerns, like Broken
Hill Prop., which have great possibilities.
But for the Canberra tariff attitude the
same might be said to apply to some of
our chief textile mills. Where there are
opportunities for a concern to capture a
larger portion of the market for its
manufacturers in competition with over-
seas exporters, and the results of its
efforts have been lower costs and higher
efficiency, such an enterprise has a
definite chance of increasing its earnings.
It is not entirely dependent on greater
general demand for products or increased
“prosperity”—the market already exists,
and has but to be won.
There are some classes of busi-
ness in this country which have
a virtual monopoly of the trade they are
interested in ; in the present circum-
stances these can’t safely look ahead to a
steadily-expanding market for their pro-
ducts. At the moment the general
economic outlook is made unpromising
by an adverse balance of external pay-
ments, trade wars, weaker prices for
wool and little relief from taxation.
There are indications in N. S. Wales
that the improved business activity is
levelling off. Further absorption of
unemployed throughout the Common-
wealth is becoming Jess evident. Syd-
ney consumption of gas and electricity,
after showing almost a steady increase in
1935, has been comparatively stable in
the first half of 1936. City building
work must inevitably show signs of
slackening ; there has been something of
a boomlet in this line recently.
Ordinary shares in sound industries are
still considered here to be among the best
of investments in peace or war. Employ-
ment is the major question with Govern-
ments, and private industries are the most
fertile source of jobs. They must be re-
garded carefully in ,any Government v
action, though admittedly they . are
heavily taxed. In the event of anything
like inflation (which might result from
a war), they wouM. up to a stage, appre-
ciate in value as investments.
But in ordinary times there is a point
where one stock becomes overvalued in
relation to another, and there are occa-
sions when market optimism makes it
desirable to hold one’s money back until
there is less speculative froth in prices.
If present trade developments run their
indicated course, there will-most likely
be a reaction from the buoyancy of the
past month. Lower wool prices (if the
dispute with Japan can’t be settled) will
bring a sagging later. One big factor in
“Coin' for a long sea voyage, am I?"
down on mines generally. There have
been far too many mistakes and too
many disappointments to make mining
investors a sweet-tempered lot. Circu-
lars such as those issued by the Shenton
board in Perth last week are now ac-
cepted in a spirit of resignation. The
shares fell from 3s. lOd. to 3s. 3d. fol-
lowing issue of the circular. But for the
report that check-sampling showed “the
existence of a main shoot of gold” ap-
proximately 160 ft. long, values undis-
closed, the drop would have been heavier.
* * * *
Whereas between March and De-
cember, 1935, Commonwealth trade-
union unemployment dropped from 18.6
p.c. to 13.7 p.c., the figure over the past
six months has been with difficulty
brought down to 12.8 p.c. It isn’t likely
to go a great deal lower, which means
that we can’t bank on the circulation of
money expanding at the 1935 rate.
$ # * *
At December 31 the backing for the
Commonwealth note issue (then amount-
ing to £51,300,000) was £16,000,000 in
“gold and English sterling,” £39,180,000
in “debentures and other securities,” and
£62,000 in other assets. Profit on the
sale of most of the gold reserve (it
was converted into sterling securities)
appeared as a reserve at £3,895,000.
Part of Australia’s London funds is the
sterling reserve against the note issue.
At December 31 the Commonwealth
Bank, in its general banking department,
had £12,780,000 at short call in London.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell (Tas.) has produced 9680
tons of electrolytic copper during the
first nine months of the current term,
which compares with 8958 tons during
the same period of last year. The metal
was around £4O 15s. in London last
week. Lyell’s £1 shares are at 245. 6d.
* * * *
About 18 months ago J. E. Garvan, a
director of West’s, Ltd. (one of the hold-
ing cos. in the Greater Union group),
raised complaints about a proposed re-
arrangement of the capital of the com-
bine ; he pointed out that it would take
away control, indirect as it then existed,
from shareholders in the four holding
cos. of Greater U.T. The directors of
Spencer’s also expressed a hope that an
aggregate balance sheet of the subsi-
diaries would be presented to share-
holders. The Bulletin commented on
the position at the time. The capital
rearrangement was not carried out. Now
a committee of shareholders in Greater
J. D. Williams has expressed dissatisfac-
tion with “the information given to share-
holders by the board,” and asks for “a
complete change in the board.” The
committee is putting up N. B. Rydge,
M. J. Davey, R. G. Gregory, J. P. Curran,
J. Armstrong and J. Goulston. A ballot
will be held on July 29.
H? sjs
Adelaide is to have a new brewery.
The S.A. Co. and Walkerville are prin-
cipal beer purveyors in the )State at
present; Castlereagh Brewery, Ltd., has
gone into liquidation after a run of about
12 months. Now Adelaide Brewery, Ltd.,
backed by Victorian liquor interests, is
to take over from the liquidator the old
Waverley brewery at Mitcham. To help
gain a quick foothold, beer will be sold
direct to the public.
In 1932 the United Kingdom bought
£177,000,000 worth of goods from coun-
tries which signed up at Ottawa. In
1935 the figure was £207,000,000 sterling
—an increase of £30,000,000. U.K. ex-
ports to those countries rose from
£100,800,000 to £138,400,000 —up
£38,000,000. J. Bull has lost nothing by
the agreements. The figures are Mr.
Runciman’s.
* * * *
J. and P. Coats (England) showed
profits of £2,006,340 from the cotton-
processing operations of its affiliates in
its last term. That was £456,987 lower
than in the preceding term, and the 3|
p.c. bonus was cut off the div., reducing
it to 10 p.c. Still, 10 p.c. isn’t bad. Eng-
lish Sewing Cotton Co., Ltd., also paid
10 p.c. Some other Lancashire cos. have
exhibited increased profits. Yorkshire
spinners and weavers have almost with-
out exception better figures to show in
their latest accounts.
H* * ❖ *
Since the banks started tightening up
in March, there has been a definite
hardening in N. S. Wales mortgage
interest rates. For about 12 months pre-
viously roughly 50 p.c. of business done
was at the rate of 44 p.c. or under. In
April and May the figure in this cate-
gory had dropped to 39 p.c., higher rates
being the rule on the rest of the transac-
tions.
Though B.H.P. and Aust. Glass
weakened a trifle last week, other stocks
there were that hit the high-spots.
Burns Philp ords. touched a record of
765. Australian Securities, a Sydney
motor-finance co. long in the doldrums,
was strong at 9s. sd. for its Bs. shares.
Gordon and Gotch, Yarra Falls, Beau
Monde Hosiery, British Tobacco and
Henry Jones went to figures that were
this year’s record or near record. Cox
Bros. (Aust.), the chain-store co. operat-
ing in Vic., S.A. and Tas., reached
515., a price never bettered.
* * * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ord.
shares rose to over 60s. in Sydney
the other day. The scrip has been
pointed out here before, when the
price was much lower. On a 10
p.c. div. basis the present yield is
3 1-3 p.c. But in the 1934-35 term
over 21 p.c. was exhibited, though
only 2s. per share was handed out.
The latest financial year should
be a good one. The co. is chiefly
interested in selling Crown seals,
corks, brewers’ and butchers’ sup-
plies, vinegar, malt, etc. It has a
wonderful business and strong
finances.
Gross value of Australian factory out-
put last year was £364,900,000, as against
£420,400,000 in 1928-29 (peak year) and
£281,600,000 in 1931-32.
* * *
Metals, excepting tin and spelter, have
shown signs of firmness lately. Spelter
(up a little) is still low at £l3 10s., but
lead at £l5 7s. 6d. in London is at a
remunerative figure for Barrier mines.
Copper has been steady above £4O (stg.)
for some time now. Silver shows little
movement,
* *
In Melbourne last week:
A strong market for industrial and similar
investments prevailed, though Carlton
Brewery slipped back. Dunlop Perdriau, was
firm, Myer Emporium ords. were up, and
A.K.M., Yarra Falls, Beau Monde and Cox
Bros, were all in demand. G. J. Coles shares
dropped back —the chain-store fever is cool-
ing a little (it was prompted by Woolworths’
melon-cutting).
Some gold shares were particularly strong.
Fiji issues were outstanding; Emperors touched
15s. 9d., and Lolomas went to 245. Lance-
field lifted to 14s. 3d., though Triton was
weaker at 11s. Bd. Lady Shenton had some
support at around 3s. 6d., as against 17s. early
this year. There is doubt now about ore
reserves as well as plant. Bendigo shows
figured prominently in Stock Exchange dealings,
and Morning Star (Wood’s Point) and Wattle
Gully (Chewton) sold at higher prices.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Moon’s Our Home”
A comedy which gives Margaret Sulla-
van and Henry Fonda a chance to prove
they are a good team. Both players sur-
pass previous performances, Fonda in
particular.
Cherry Chester (Margaret Sullavan), a
pampered film actress, and Anthony
Amberton (Fonda), a best-selling author,
despise one another, though they have
never met. They meet, and become
friends, he under his real name of Smith,
she confessing to Brown. As such they
marry in a snow-bound New England
town (some fine outdoor scenes here)
where they are holidaying. Their future
marital state is indicated by a terrific
row during the ceremony, and again that
evening over the perfume she sprays on
her nightdress. She promptly packs up
and dashes off home to New York, leav-
ing .him to comb that city for a girl
named Brown. They meet again at a
party given to announce Cherry’s en-
gagement to her dumb-bell cousin Horace
(Charles Butterworth), a friend of
Anthony. They clinch, have another
row on revealing their identities, then
clinch again at the final fadeout.
The story is rendered almost plausible
by the spirited acting of the stars and
good character studies by Beulah Bondi,
Henrietta Crosman and Lucien Littlefield.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Thirteen Hours by Air”
Air transport in the U.S.A. comes
under the spotlight in this first-class film,
and the many authentic glimpses of the
huge organisation, aloft and at the well-
equipped airports, are a revelation.
The line’s crack pilot, Jack Gordon
(Fred Mac Murray) is about to go on
vacation, but a colleague falls sick and he
has to go back tp the joystick on the
transcontinental run —New York to
’Frisco. A beautiful blonde (Joan
Bennett), a killer (Alan Baxter), a follow-
ing G.-man (Brian Donlevy), the blonde’s
Russian admirer (Fred Keating), \salde-
mar, a mischievous 10-year-old million-
aire (Bennie Bartlett), and his “keeper”
(Zasu Pitts) are his passengers. It is when
the killer realises that the G.-man isn’t
the doctor he pretends to be that furious
action starts, and it coincides with a bliz-
zard in the Sierra Valley.
The pilot puts the ’plane down —his
suspense and that of his co-pilot (John
Howard) as he manoeuvres to land in an
unknown, snow-covered field at 100 m.p.h.
is finely portrayed—the killer’s trigger
finger itches, and the G.-man and second
pilot collect bullets in non-vital places.
When the bad man wrecks the radio things
look blue, but the wildcat youngster
saves the day by giving the villain an eye-
ful of fire-extinguisher acid with his toy
Oscar Homolka as Oom Paul in ‘Rhodes
of Africa,” at Sydney Embassy.'
pistol. Ensues a terrific fight in cramped
quarters, with hero Jack landing a “sub-
sequent proceedings” punch in the right
place. He then takes off again (he really
needn’t have come down, but that can
be overlooked for the sake of the thrills
of the forced landing), and the film ends
in sentences —prison for the killer, matri-
monial for pilot and blonde.
Fred Mac Murray is capably aggressive
in an emergency, and Joan Bennett is
pert and polished. Alan Baxter is a
coldly-vicious gunman. Zasu Pitts flutters
her hands helplessly. Also at Prince
Edward.
“The Preview Murder Mystery”
The star tenor of an operatic film (Rod
la Roque) receives threatening letters. He
is to die at the preview. He does. Where-
upon the police put the whole of the film
co.’s premises under guard, allowing no
one to leave. Work of production goes
on and more murders occur. Suspicion
hovers over several characters. Eventu-
ally the publicity man (Reginald Denny)
stumbles on evidence that the crimes are
the work of an erstwhile star tenor
(Conway Tearle), supposed to have died
several years before. A studio accident
destroyed his beauty. Hearing that his
last great film is to be remade with an-
other star he returns to wreak vengeance.
The film studio setting and atmosphere
are well done —this is right down Holly-
wood’s own alley—and there is some
effective acting by Denny, George Bar-
bier, Frances Drake and Gail Patrick.
Tearle’s part is small—he comes in at
the end to explain matters and die. A
first-class thriller. At Sydney Cameo.
Wallace Beery in “A Message to Garcia,”
at Sydney Plaza.
“Call of the. Prairie”
Another incident in the adventurous
lives of Hopalong Cassidy (William
Boyd) and Johnny Nelson (Jimmy Elli-
son). Johnny gets tangled up with
crooks who make him the scapegoat for
their misdeeds, but Hopalong scouts
around, rescues Johnny from the villains’
clutches —they have tied him up facing a
revolver clipped in a vice. A piece of
rawhide is attached to the trigger and
a candle flame licks the rawhide. When
the leather contracts the gun goes off.
There’s an old prospector (George Hayes)
in cahoots with the bad men, and Johnny
loves the old rascal’s daughter (Muriel
Evans). Chief exponent of miscreancy
is Alan Bridge, who dies, of course, full
of lead. A fast-moving romance in which
horseflesh and bullets play vigorous parts.
Also at the Cameo,
“Fighting Youth”
Another of those films depicting
cahledge life. What it lacks in entertain-
ment it makes up for by contributing
interesting sidelights on higher education
in the U.S.A. For instance, it is gathered
that the minimum age for students is
about 33 ; that cahledge is a place where
all sophomores and co-eds pair off and
marry before graduating ; that, next to
football, sociology is the most important
item in the curriculum; that when a
player isn’t doing well on the field
the coach yanks him off and puts some-
one better on ; and that a coach’s dis-
ciplinary methods make a Siberian salt-
mine overseer look like the matron of
a creche.
There is a Gahmunist plaht to ruin the
Republic’s social structure by undermin-
ing the morale of the school’s “grid”
team, apparently Capitalism’s last bul-
wark. Charles Farrell is the early-
middle-aged student who dashes over the
grid with more ebullience than brain,
and June Martel is there for the heart
interest. J. Farrell MacDonald looks
out of place as the coach. At Sydney
Capitol.
Alan Hale in “A Message to Garcia.”
“The Law in Her Hands”
This film, despite a few improbabili-
ties, has a well-constructed story, and is
creditably handled by a solid cast. Mary
Wentworth (Margaret Lindsay) and
Dorothy Davis (Glenda Farrell) set up
their shingle as attorneys in partnership,
Frank Gordon, a racketeering czar,
struck by Mary’s looks and her conduct
of a case, offers her a big retainer. The
lady knocks him back ; she is in love with
Robert Mitchell, the State Prosecutor.
But Robert demonstrates on her his un-
heeded warning that the law is full of
tricks, and, stung into rebellion, she takes
up Gordon’s offer. Indulging in the shady
practices of the shyster lawyer the part-
ners prosper, but when a milk-poisoning
scandal is aired Mary refuses to “cover”
Gordon. After killing two witnesses and
wounding Mitchell, he threatens her, so
she pretends to fall in with his schemes,
and has Gordon’s double arrested. On
the witness stand the prosecutor swears
that the man in the dock attempted to
murder him, and when Mary produces
Gordon from the body of the court the
law is confounded. Then suddenly she
denounces Gordon and ensures his con-
viction. She is struck off the rolls for
unprofessional conduct. All that is left
for her is marriage-bells. Marriage-bells
ring. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Witness Chair”
American film producers do court
scenes so well that there is some excuse
for making a picture almost entirely
centred in a criminal trial. The charge
is murder. The dead man’s business
partner is accused. As each witness gives
evidence the events described are shown
as they actually happened. Towards the
end of the trial the dead man’s secretary
(Ann Harding) confesses that she shot
him (quite by accident, of course) and
her employer and lover (Walter Abel) is
exonerated. The part suits Miss Hard-
ing, and the other roles are all very
capably filled. At Sydney Regent.
Charles Heslop in “The Gipsy Princess,”
at Sydney Royal.
“The First Baby”
In somewhat the same vein as “Every
Saturday Night.” Johnny Downs is a
young husband, Shirley Deane his bride ;
and their experiences, particularly in con-
nection with their first baby, form the
subject-matter. If there is any moral to
the business it is that newly-weds
shouldn’t live with either party’s parents.
There is nothing sensational or unusual
about the happenings, and the illusion
that it is a slice of real life is helped by
the naturalness of the middle-aged
characters, among them Jane Darwell,
Gene Lockhart and Willard Robertson.
At Sydney Plaza.
Some First Nights
Musical photography has been carried
to a high pitch of perfection in the
U.S.S.R. apparently. In “The Iron
Foundry,” by Alexandre Mossolov, which
made its first Australian appearance at
Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday
night, the rhythm of the piece is given
by the steady and continuous stamp of
big drums which do not vary from first
to last. The hissing of steam, the rattle
of chains, the hammerings, crashings,
bumps and thwacks appropriate to the
theme were apportioned to the other in-
struments, the only additions to the nor-
mal orchestra being some steel and nails
and an enormous plate, which was shaken
much as two housewives shake a blanket,
and the management of which Bernard
Heinze had placed in the care of one
of the most accomplished pianists in the
State. The result was as if the listener
had been in the iron foundry itself, as
anybody could prove by shutting his eyes
for a space. The skill with which Mosso-
lov had reproduced the sounds that any-
one can hear without being the little
finger of a composer impressed the audi-
ence, which responded with prolonged
applause. “Something of the exaltation
which such powerful forces can suggest”
may have been given in the work, as the
programme said, but to the present
hearer’s mind it was not much more than
if an intelligent reporter had condensed
a page or two of “Hansard” into an
intelligible report and called it literature.
Beethoven’s Concerto, No. 2, Op. 19,
which followed, had been created accord-
ing to some different conception of what
music is. It was impossible to say whence
Beethoven got his inspiration except that
it was from somewhere in Nature; it
gave back to the ear the clarity and fresh-
ness that Nature gives to the eye.. The
Tschaikowsky Symphony, No. 4, in F
Minor, belongs to the same tradition,
and its exquisite variety compelled the
orchestra to one of the finest perform-
ances of its career. The long and intri-
cate passage for plucked strings made
Edouard Lambert, leader of the orches-
tra, momentarily hero of the evening.
Delius’s “Eventyr,” which concerns
the doings of giants, trolls, sprites, kelpies


Send for our technical
bulletin 11 AW on
hjl
yg
nij
TWIN CHASSIS
11 -VALVE
DE LUXE ALL-WAVE HIGH-FIDELITY RECEIVER
Here is at last a de luxe model at least two years ahead of mass produc-
tion receivers ... a set so sensitive that foreign stations come in like
locals . . . yet so engineered that interfering noises are kept in the
background ... a set that gives you twice the tonal range of the next
best, yet does not cost as much as other makes that give but half the
performance. Twenty watts undistorted output.
GEORGE BROWN & COMPANY, LTD.,
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Y.S.jy. Agents: Rota Reproducers, Van Buy ten Car and Launch Radio, Milliard Radio Valves.
Cheers for the perfect party, where the people
are perfect, your partner is perfect, and the
cocktails are made with Vickers. There's
no better base for a cocktail than Vickers,
and no better time to find it out than now.
c
E
R
S
ICKERS
GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
and hobgoblins in a magic wood, be-
longs to that obvious sort of programme
music which drives modern composers,
as a natural reaction, to iron foundries.
Eileen Joyce, as soloist, gave her cus-
tomary display of technical facility, sur-
prising speed and delicacy to the con-
certo, and for an encore she gave the
second movement of the Saint-Saens con-
certo which was heard the other day.
•f* *l< »J«
Many reasons have been advanced to
explain why “Ruddigore,” recently re-
vived at Melbourne His Majesty’s, is not
so popular as other G. and S. plays, but
the best explanation is probably that it
does not contain anything “quotable” to
fix it in popular memory. Nevertheless,
the music throughout is tuneful and
pleasing, and the satire upon familiar
figures of old melodrama is in the best
Gilbertian vein.
Ivan Menzies, whose performance in
“The Mikado” had Melbourne’s old-time
Gilsullivan enthusiasts walking round
for a week with scarcely-concealed guns,
left them little room for criticism as
Robin Oakapple, alias Sir Ruthven
Murgatroyd.
Evelyn Hall (Dame Hannah) scored
heavily with “There Grew a Little
Flower,” while Richard Watson as Sir
Despard, the wicked baronet who reforms
and becomes a district visitor, and Eileen
Kelly (Mad Margaret, whom he betray-ed
and desert-ed while still wicked) were ex-
cellent, both individually and, later, as a
team.
To anyone who has seen the opera
performed in Australia before, “Ruddi-
gore” means Bernard Manning, who is
Sir Roderick Murgatroyd, principal
ghost in the highly dramatic scene in
which the portraits of Robin’s ancestors
come down from their frames to call him
to account. Manning’s song, “When the
Night Wind Howls,” sung on a darkened
stage with chorus of ghostly “ancestors,”
is the big moment of the play.
-I* -I* -I- -I-
“The Pirates of Penzance,” which
opened at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on
Saturday, has, by reason of its robust
choruses and abundant humor, always
been a favorite among G. and S. operas,
Bernard Manning as the Pirate King
is villainously amusing, though not quite
as ugly as Clifford Cowley, his lieutenant.
Richard Watson is the Sergeant of Police
and, with his well-drilled-to-dumbness
squad of bobbies, scores a great success,
accentuated possibly by the prominence
of the Police Force in the minds of Mel-
bourne audiences at present. Godfrey
Stirling does well as the young pirate
torn between conflicting emotions, and
Ivan Menzies is “the very pattern of a
modern Major-General.” Helen Lang-
ton (Mabel) gets her first opportunity of
the season and makes good use of it.
Her “Poor Wandering One” was sung
with rare feeling. Evelyn Hall adds an-
other good character—Ruth, the piratical
maid-of-all-work—to her list; and Eileen
Kelly, Phyllis Dickinson and Nina Rob-
bins are pretty and tuneful as some of
the general’s daughters.
“Trial by Jury” preceded “The Pirates.”
Eileen Kelly was the plaintiff in the
breach of promise case, and Vincent
McMurray the lover who changed his
mind. With Richard Watson as the
Judge and Tommy Jay as the usher, the
jury had the time of their lives.
At Saturday’s matinee Clifford Cowley
took Watson’s place, and his performance
was a splendid piece of judicial abandon.
One of the A.B.C’s current attractions,
the Howard Jacobs dance band, gave a
concert at Town Hall on Friday
night, a portion of the programme being
broadcast. The band is a very good one
of its sort, and its conductor is a capable
showman. With apologies for what he
called its “pettiness” he introduced the
audience to the latest craze in New York,
the game of “Muggins.” All hands recite
numbers in chorus, commencing with
“one.” On arriving at seven or any
multiple of seven or any number con-
taining a seven they say instead “ha-ha” ;
for ten and multiples of ten the word is
“woof.” An orchestral and vocal novelty
embodying such a recital was one of the
evening’s features, and the band also
demonstrated its deftness in syncopation,
its ability to play severely classically, and
its prowess in the art of hotcha. As
saxophone soloist Mr. Jacobs produced
a tone which was a revelation of the
possibilities of a much-abused instrument.
Gladys Moncrieff, Australia’s most popu-
lar singer, sang ditties about love and its
durability with great acceptance, and
Sydney Mac Ewan, tenor, and Cecil Nor-
man, pianist, further diversified a well-
mixed programme.
-b *b *1- 4*
Michael Head’s recital of his own
songs and pianoforte compositions was
one of last week’s A.B.C. offerings. Mr.
Head has a light pleasant voice and sings
his successful and tuneful ditties with
grace. His playing, too, is graceful, and
his enunciation is the clearest this com-
mentator has heard from any radio
singer.
'l* -b »b -b
Haydn’s “Creation” was unfolded to
a big Sydney Town Hall audience by a
combination of the forces of the Phil-
harmonic Society, A.B.C. concert or-
chestra, radio choir and wireless chorus.
Strongest feature was the orchestra.
Choir lacked crispness and clarity, and
the soloists failed to realise the spirit and
vigor of either music or words.
•b -b *b *l*
At the Sydney Forum Club on Satur-
day night Clement Hosking gave a
recital of ancient Celtic airs, tastefully
arranged by Marjorie Kennedy-Fraser.
The telling of the legend accompanying
each song added interest to a nicely
varied programme. Mr. Hosking’s ex-
pressive basso-cantante was admirably
suited to the fine “Love-Wandering,” and ,
“To the Lord of the Isles” was an artistic
delight. Dramatic declamation marked
the heroic “Ossianic Chant” and “Cuchul-
lan’s Lament for His Son.” In distinct
contrast were “Fairy Loom” and “Dance
to Your Shadow,” two dainty lilting airs
in which the rnezza voce was skilfully
employed “The Coolin of Rum,” which
has nothing to do with Sydney’s early
currency, was one of the most melodi-
ous of the numbers, and the “Sea Tangle”
and “At the Wave Mouth” had a nauti-
cal flavor. Mrs. Kingston Hewitt was
an able accompanist.
-b -b *b -b
“Adrienne Lecouvreur,” presented by
Scott Alexander at Sydney Kursaal, is
rendered palatable only by some interest-
ing sidelights on the French Court of the
early eighteenth century. The trans-
lators haven’t been kind to the dia-
logue, and there is a dearth of humor.
With the exception of Erana Newbold,
as a Court butterfly, and Raymond Irons,
as the browbeaten “Props.” of the
Comedie Franeaise, the Kursaal players
were rather out of their depth.
Current Artbursts
John D. Moore, whose latest work
hangs on the walls of the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, is a poetic water-colorist
whose fancy has, in the past, been a
little too sombre, to this commentator’s
taste. Seven of the drawings in the
present show are topped by heavily cor-
rugated, tragic skies. Pleasanter are calm,
sincere studies of Lord Howe Island
mountains and verdure ; some still-lifes
in bright sunlight, very clever in treat-
ment ; “Reflections of a Courtyard,” in
which the mirror is a globe, and “Low
Tide, Shellharbor.” Mr. Moore gets his
effects with greater certainty each year,
and his experiments are always inter-
esting.
Ethel Spowers, whose prints and water-
colors make gay the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, Sydney, is one of the few Austra-
lians whose lino-cuts have found a place
in the South Kensington collection. She
is a mistress of this craft, and is at her
best in little glimpses of children at play.
Such compositions as “School Is Out,”
“Swings,” “Tug of War,” “Flying Kites”
and “Children with Hoops” are full of
vigorous, graceful movement. Effective
also, in less vivacious mood, are such
studies as “The Timber Crane,” “The
Works, Yallourn,” “Reflections of a
China Fawn” and “The Lonely Farm.”
The water-colors are clean-colored and
nicely composed, “The Fairy Story” the
best of an attractive half-dozen.
This year’s show of students’ work by
the Royal Art Society of N. S. Wales is
dominated by H. Greenhill, who wins the
scholarship and also first prizes for life
drawing from the nude, landscape, still-
life and composition. To complete his
all-roundness he exhibits a couple of ex-
cellent posters, and shows promise as a
portraitist. He draws a graceful line, and
his color sense is good. Meritorious
work is shown by M. Skelton and R.
Johnston, and a pupil with only one
quarter’s tuition, Miss J. Ollivier, seems
to have made astounding progress in the
period.


GATEMof SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all.
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes’ walking dis-
tance, you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
REDUCED
A. PRICES,
CES LIKE THIS
FIT A MAZDA
IF you use a Mazda lamp
to illuminate the name or
number of your house, your
friends would not have to
explore half the neighbour-
hood to find you !
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In the early dusk of these sparkling
winter days it is very pleasant to drink
afternoon tea in the kiosk in the Domain
and watch the green of the trees swiftly
darken in the departing day. The kiosk
has become quite a fashionable tea-
house since the opening of the Inter-
national Art Exhibition. From the
National Gallery it is only a step, and
hostesses who have been whipping up
the attendance to the various art lectures
by taking groups of friends round off the
afternoon with a Domain tea-drinking.
Last week lectures were given on the
art of China by that country’s Consul-
General. Dr. Host, Consul-General for
Denmark, was another whose words
were eagerly listened to,
Sydney Grammar School provided a
fitting background for the party to the
two daughters of its headmaster, H. S.
Dettmann, on Saturday night. This was
a farewell to the brilliant Denise, who
goes off to Somerville College at Oxford
with the Cooper Travelling Scholarship
for Classics ; and to announce the en-
gagement of Ellis (Dixie) to Dr, Bruce
Tasman Lovell, eldest son of the Prof.
Tasman Lovells, of Neutral Bay. Over
two hundred guests danced in the school
hall or played bridge and talked in the
smaller rooms. Poinsettia and nastur-
tiums were massed everywhere, and
Denise and Dixie were distinctive ; the
first wore ivory lace cut on classic lines,
while Dixie’s rose-red taffeta was made
with a fitting little bodice and spreading
skirt. Mrs. H. S. Dettmann was hand-
some in shot chenille. Mrs. Lovell’s vel-
vets were black. Helen Mcliwraith
wore pink, and Barbara Salenger’s frock
was of black taffeta. This had long
sleeves, a narrow white collar and tiny
buttons that ran from neck to hem.
Twenty-four years of his life Dean
Talbot gave to St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Last Saturday his ashes were buried
under the stone before the stall which
for so many years had been his. Every
type of man went to the service which
preceded the journey to the crematorium:
soldier, sailor, businessman, they were
all there. So were they who have no pro-
fession, not even a job, for the Dean had
always been a great friend to such. He
had served as a chaplain at the war, so
soldiers had a special claim on his time
and care. One of the places where he will
be missed is in the Town Hall during a
great concert season. He was passionately
fond of music. His young widow is a
violinist of professional calibre.
if Joyce Tietzel is a f.a.q. sample of
girlhood in South Australia, it won’t be
hard for the males, at any rate, to fol-
low her advice: “Come to Adelaide for
Christmas.” Joyce is a pretty 23-year-
old with red-gold hair, and she is one
of S.A.’s three girl ambassadors whose
smiles and charm are expected to make
Adelaide the hub of Australia during its
centenary celebrations. Joyce has been
to Canberra, where she whispered her
slogan into the ear of Priminister Lyons
and other Parliamentary dignitaries.
They seemed to favor the suggestion.
But they have railway passes.
Departing from its usual custom, the
Town Hall’s party for Miss Joyce Cen-
tenary was a young people's affair.
Against a background of nasturtiums
Mayoress Parkes received her guests, the
one representing the South, the other,
Mrs. E. L. Barrett, the West, of whose
capital she is Mayoress. All the princi-
pals had bouquets, Miss Centenary wear-
ing a spray of pink carnations on her
black suit. Philippa FitzHardinge-
Stephen, Lola Lowe and Doris Clarke
were attractive girls among the tea-
drinkers. Mrs. F. J. Davy, Mrs. R.
Peden and Miss Hollander-Moore were
among the smartly-dressed. There was
no music, as it was decided not to run
rival musical sounds to those arising
from Richard Crooks. The turkey sand-
wiches were good.
Catherine Grant, just back from travels
in Europe, has been appointed organiser
of women’s auxiliaries under the Hospi-
tals Commission. This is one of the
positions formerly held by the late Mrs.
R. R. S. MacKinnon. Desmona Woolley,
photograph.
Green was the recurring note at the
Armidale School’s dance. Mary Went-
worth wore it under her trained coat
of amethyst velvet. Its sleeves were
wide, its upstanding collar stiff with
stitching. Audrey Nicolson’s frock was
of apple-green velvet; Mrs. E. R. Cox
wore the same shade in heavy crepes.
Jean Malor sashed her parchment laces
in emerald. The dance, which brought
youth by the score to the Wentworth,
was the combined flutter of the Armi-
dale School Old Boys’ Union and the
ex-New England Girls’ School Union.
President of the 0.8. U. Humphrey
Henchman and Mrs. Henchman enter-
tained at the official table that was
backed by the banners of the two
schools, and decked with a floral may-
pole of sea-blue lupins and pink sweet-
peas. From it ribbons in the color of
each school radiated. The Acting-
Premier Bruxners were in this party.
Charlie Lloyd Jones, who was an
artist actively depicting field and fen be-
fore a business life claimed him, opened
John D. Moore’s show with some worth-
while observations on art. This exhibi-
tion is at the Macquarie Galleries, which
were crowded for the opening. Mrs.
C. L. Jones, who came smartly tailored
and, in the new way, furless, was handed
a spray of hyacinth and daphne for her
lapel. The same flowers bloomed on
the black, fur-collared coat worn by the
artist’s wife (Gladys Owen), herself an
artist and programme arranger for the
A.B.C. John D. digested his bushel or
so of congratulations with an embarrassed
air.
The Alexander Gordon lady was there,
brightly smiling above a black caracul
coat. She was talking art with just-re-
turned Charles Bryant, who is planning
his own show —the first in Australia for
over five years. Mrs. Suzor, wife of
France’s Consul-General, was among the
gazers with small son Paul; Mrs. Pierre
Remond and artist Maude Sherwood in
horizon-blues were among the noted.
There was the subject for a painting
called “Carnival” at St. Paul’s within the
Uni. last week. First of all were the fires
in the open at which waiting chauffeurs
warmed their hands ; then there was the
marquee in the quad., lined with prim-
rose silk, latticed with palm and ferny
shoot and brilliant with multicolored
electrics. This was the ballroom for the
night, and the specially laid down floor
proved all the most hopeful had ex-
pected. The supper was served in the
dining hall, and in every room was the
cheery blaze of fires. The Warden,
Canon A. H. Garnsey, and Mrs. Garn-
sey received the guests. Mrs. Garnsey’s
black velvet frock was finished with a
cape of ostrich feathers. The profes-
sorial Dews and Fawsitts were there, and
from the North Side came the L. C.
Robsons, of Shore, and the H. S, Dett-
manns, of Sydney Grammar.
Principal of the Women’s College
Camilla Wedgwood, always a smart-
frocker, wore rich raiment of black velvet
patterned in gold thread. Checked taf-
feta in two tones of bronze was Valen-
tine Adams’s pretty dance frock ; palest-
pink crepe coated in white velvet was
Patsy Dangar's color scheme. Noreen
Dangar’s velvets were dark blue, the
flowers on her shoulder of red and blue
suede. Lilac and the purple of pansies
were in the ground-length cape worn by
Pamela Laidley Dowling. Senior student
of St. Paul’s Norman Godfrey enter-
tained the representatives of the other
colleges.
While committees and subcommittees
of the artistic-minded confer on ways to
popularise our Art Gallery, nobody
seems to have thought of the simple
expedient of running a regular bus ser-
vice to the front door of the treasure
house of symmetry and grace. Even if
that service operated only on two after-
noons a week the turnstiles would click
up a good bit of extra mileage in the
year. At the present time the car-less
have quite a walk to the gallery, a long
walk if the approach is from the Mac-
quarie-street end of the Domain. It is
quite easy, bowling along in a Rolls-
Royce or a Baby Austin, to accuse the
G.P. of lack of interest in art. Maybe
it’s just corns, fallen arches or lack of
time that keeps from the National Art
Gallery the citizen who has to journey
the distance under his own power.
Denise Dettmann, who departs on
Saturday in the Orama with a cargo of
medals for Latin, Greek and English, is
one of a group of clever girls whose
achievements shed lustre on Sydney Uni.
Daphne Stephan won the James King
of Irrawang Scholarship, a James Coutts
and Science Research Scholarship and
the University medal for chemistry.
Miss Stephan goes to Cambridge to study
chemistry with Prof. Lowrie. Rosemary
Goldie (Dulcie Deamer’s daughter) has
the French Government Travelling
Scholarship, University medals for Eng-
lish and French and other distinctions.
She will study at the Sorbonne. Nor
must the name of Jean Malor, first of
her sex to top her year in law, be omitted.
Josephine Heine, of Strathfield, will be
one of the solo dancers in Stravinsky’s
famous ballet “Petrouschka.” This will be
presented with 70 dancers in artistic set-
tings by the first Australian ballet at the
Conservatorium next Saturday. Up till
last Christmas Josephine was a pupil of
Frensham. Raymond Sawyer photo-
graph.
The enthusiasm for Richard Crooks
grew with each of his 10 concerts, till in
the end not only were all the seats on
the organ gallery taken, but there was a
row of devotees squatting on the floor
of the platform. The compleat statistician
reckons that 40,000 people have heard
the tenor in Sydney. There seems a nice
little job ahead for the clerks
by the time Richard has sung his way
through all the States. A little coat of
checked taffeta in which yellow predomi-
nated and the sleeves were puffed was
worn by Mrs. Crooks during last week’s
songbursts. The frock that accompanied
it was of palest grey chiffon. An attrac-
tive listener was Mrs. Brose, who was
there with her science-professor husband.
They have settled —for a while, at any
rate—at Castlecrag, where his music
makes him one with the artist colony.
Mrs. F. J. Davy brought her friend Mrs.
Gordon Shaw, from Bombala. Unassum-
ing pianist Carl Schauwecker has made
quite a circle of friends for himself as
well as for his playing of the ancients
and moderns.
The romance of music went hand in
hand with the artistry of fine clothes at
the Trocadero last week. Woman, stirred
by the playing of Isador Goodman, the
starry way of Gladys Moncrieff’s voice,
the Aurora Australis glitter of Lilian
Pertka’s apparel, were in the right mood
to appreciate Evening Silhouettes, the
fashion display presented by Anthony
Horderns’. The girls displaying the fine
feathers stepped from the stage to the
shining glacier of dancing-floor, and
chatter stopped as suddenly as George-
street traffic stops to the policeman's
signal.
Featured in this display were the bags,
gloves and wraps suitable to accompany
the different models. One semi-classic,
flowing petunia velvet held its taxi fare
home (a wise girl never goes out with-
out it) in a gold sequin evening bag, and
put a lush Arctic fox between its shoul-
ders and the evening breeze. Men-
delssohn’s “Spring Song” might have in-
spired an organza brightly patterned in
metal thread. Its pink-and-gold bag was
like a September cloud. A black net frock
with unusual puff sleeves ending just
above the elbow had a square neckline.
With its shower of silver spots it sug-
gested a bit of starlit sky.
The music and card party for the bene-
fit of St. Gabriel’s School for Deaf and
Dumb Boys was one of the week’s suc-
cesses. The attendance of 400 was surely
a record for that sort of thing. One of
the admirable items on the programme
was a physical-culture display by the
pupils of the school. St. Gabriel’s was
founded in 1922 by Brother Farrell on
the lines of a Dublin institution, Cabra,
where he had taught for some years. The
attendance now numbers 52, and a special
lodge is provided at the institution for
expert teachers. The boys are taught
woodwork, French polishing, shoemak-
ing, tailoring and such trades. In spite
of their handicap, the boys of St.
Gabriel’s have every chance of turning
out useful, self-supporting citizens.
Let the Grey Nurse and her brothers
and sisters beware. New York has
created a fashion in a material called
sharkskin. But, while the girls on Broad-
way and Fifth-avenue have to put up
with a synthetic fabric, what’s to stop
our brjave fishermen delivering the real
goods for Sydney miss? Once there is
a market for their hides the sharks will
soon stop gnashing their molars off Bondi
and Manly, Coogee and Palm Beach.
This fabric sharkskin is thick, smooth
and washes. White washable pigskin
sounds a good suggestion for summer
handbags, and chromium handles and
knobs still glitter on the best bags.
The Gordon Shaws came up to town
from Bombala last week, Mr. Shaw to
take part in the reunion of the Waratahs,
Mrs. Shaw to take in a Richard Crooks
concert. On Saturday night there was a
family dinner-party of eight. This was
to celebrate the engagement of only
daughter Helen Jocelyn Shaw to Alan
Kelman, of Tantaranna, Moree. Mrs.
Shaw is manager of the Southern Monaro
hockey girls’ team now in Sydney for
Country Week hockey.


rr_
U^
WHERE
will You stay in
MELBOURNE?
9U9U
At the Victoria, of
course! Australia’s
largest, most modern
hotel. In heart of city.
Every luxury. Un-
rivalled dining rooms j
and cafeterias. Popular
“Room Only” tariffs:
Singles, 4/- to 7/6
per day; Doubles, 8/-
to 16/-. Write for
free illustrated booklet
to Departmcpt Dll.
VICTORIA PAIACE
201-239 tittle Collins
St., Melbourne, C.l.
m
•••!!!
I!!!"
:ss
LARGEST MIHICENSED (HOTEL IN AUSTRALIA
BRANDAUER’S
sv:
C' t '
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUEE A CO.. Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM, UNO
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Mblbourne
Chatter
Grand National week was the quietest
Melbourne has known for many years.
The postponement of the National Hurdle
through bad weather necessitated two mid-
week days of racing at Flemington, both
cold and grey and calling for raincoats,
thick tweeds, high snowboots or woolly
golf socks. Engagement-books were
practically empty of dinners, luncheons
and teas. All that filled their pages were
one large subscription dance, (he
Athemeum Club at-home, two or three
private cocktail parties and debutante
dances and a couple of old school-tie
fixtures.
On Saturday the weather did its best
to make up for its disagreeable showing
earlier in the week. The sun shone and
there was very little wind, even for those
who watched the Steeplechase from high
upon the top of the stands. The lawns
in front of the members’ territory, well
populated at all other times during the
afternoon, were practically empty during
the running of the big race. People were
so anxious to get a good view that they
started their climbing early.
The course must have been worth thou-
sands of pounds in furs alone ; fur coats
and fur capes hung luxuriously from so
many shoulders. Tweeds were popular,
black was inevitable, accessories were
more important than ever and hats were
anything at all. Brims are no longer
simple structures, for they can conquer
any angle, and crowns are fall or low,
with dints from Alsace and the Tyrol,
gnomes, peaks, tufts of tulle or spurts of
flowers —any gadget placed high over the
forehead can imagine it is right on the
crest of fashion.
Veils appeared quite often. One
woman wore hers in the notion of a
mantilla ; it was so fixed that she could
on another occasion drape it across her
face, attach the corner above one ear
and become for the moment Eastern.
Orchids were very profuse, and all the
most self-opinionated handbags were car-
ried by half-moon handles. Mrs. George
Nicholas wore a tiny brown toque with
her oatmeal kasha ensemble. Mrs.
Harley Styles favored black with a cape
of Persian lamb. A picture of well-
groomed and devoted mother and daugh-
ter (they walk arm-in-arm) was portrayed
by Mrs. Arthur Timmins, in black and
silver foxes, and Phyllis, whose stone-
grey tailored dress showed a candlewick
pattern in paler grey flowerettes. Lome
Hood chose a brown-and-beige tailored
suit, and Lorraine Gumming black and
fox furs. Mrs. Laing-Hay’s beautiful fur
coat was cut in swagger fashion and had
a neat little Peter Pan instead of a high
roll collar.
Mona MacLeod’s illness was an anti-
climax to the women’s State golf cham-
pionship. She was forced to retire from
the finals, thus giving a walkover to Mrs.
Sloan Morpeth. Both players have won
the championship several times, have met
on many fairways and cherish the greatest
admiration for one another’s play. Mrs.
Morpeth’s last trophy probably gave her
less of a thrill than ever before, for it
was hers without hitting a ball.
This year the method adopted was 36
holes of qualifying play with only eight
competitors to qualify. In the first round
was the most exciting game of the week,
wherein Mrs. Sloan Morpeth had to call
on all her resources to defeat Joan Lewis
2 and 1. Miss Lewis is Albert Park
champion, a young golfer making her
first appearance in an event of such im-
portance. On the same day Nell Hutton
had to go to the twentieth before she
accounted for Betty Kernot, Mona
MacLeod defeated Mrs. Alex. Russell,
and Jean Sinclair by one up ousted Mrs.
Keith Jamison, playing for the first time
under her married name ; she was Nell
Marrie until a few months ago. In the
semi-finals Mrs. Morpeth defeated Miss
Hutton and Miss MacLeod accounted for
the small dynamo Jean Sinclair.
On the finals day, to assuage the dis-
appointment of the gallery, an exhibition
foursome was arranged and played on the
spot. Afterwards Mrs. Austin Gatehouse
was the centre of a presentation and
speech ceremony held over tea at the
clubhouse. After 25 years, during which
she has been several times national
and State champion and president of
the V.L.G.U., she is retiring from com-
petitive golf. She’ll still play when she
feels like it, and she won’t be hobbyless,
for she has lots of other interests, parti-
cularly house, garden and cacti, which
last, in her hands, seem to bloom when
they should and grow as they ought.
The gift to Mrs. Gatehouse, which came
from the associates of golf clubs through-
out the State, consisted of Crown Derby
tea and coffee services, three pieces of
Lalique and a cheque. It was handed
over by the new V.L.G.U. president,
Mrs. J. B. Bellair.
Madame Tossy Spivakovsky, herewith
portrayed by Broothorn, can, if she feels
so minded, call herself Dr. Erika Spiva-
kovsky, for she gained her doctorate of
philosophy in Berlin. Madame looks
very young to be credited with such
a vast amount of learning. She
doesn’t play her husband’s instrument,
the violin, but she’s a talented pianist,
and performed at concerts before leav-
ing Germany in 1934 to come to Aus-
tralia for her marriage. She was born
in Germany, and spent most of her
school years in South America, where
she became fluent in Spanish and Portu-
guese. She is now adding Russian to her
half-dozen, other languages.
The Athenaeum Club cocktail party
was so packed that the guests could
scarcely breathe and the waiters took the
lives of everybody’s clothes in their hands
when they pushed their way with-trays
held high through the dense throng. The
invitations stated 5-7, and punctually at
7 the point was rammed home with the
band’s playing “God Save,” the caviare
disappearing and the sudden difficulty of
getting drinks. The club had to think of
some way of getting rid of people ; last
year they were still hungry and lively at
almost midnight. What could be seen of
the decorations were as lavish as usual.
The swimming pool was surrounded by
a grove of trees in tubs, one a pear-tree
heavy with golden fruit, and another an
early plum covered with a cloud of pink
blossom. Small tables and chairs placed
under beach umbrellas at one end of
the pool were all occupied, and the long
table of decorative food which stretched
all the way from the squash court was
another centre of attraction.
Among the womenfolk black and fur
jackets or short capes were so prevalent
that it seemed as if an edict had been
issued for a uniform. Among component
parts of nearly-all-black groups were Dr.
and Mrs. Ambrose Treacey ; Dr. and Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, she in her favorite
blue eye-shadow; Lynette Dickenson,
her black-and-white scarf tied in a man-
nish knot and coque feathers nodding in
her Foreign Legion hat; the Keith White-
heads and Mr. and Mrs. O’Collins (from
Frankston). She caused a stir with her
severe white Eton coat over a black gar-
ment which looked very like a divided
skirt. Mrs. Bert Underwood in brown,
Mrs. Keith Allard in a tawny shade of
old port and Mrs. Frank May in green
were among the few exceptions to the
rule of black.
Here is a Broothorn glimpse of Mrs.
John Dudley Firth, whose decorative
appearance has cheered several fixtures
of our cold, wet and duller-than-usual
Race Week. Mr. and Mrs. Firth are a
young couple on their first visit to Aus-
tralia. This week they expect to make
the acquaintance of Sydney, and by the
end of the month they will be en route
for England.
Very social, very crowded and accom-
panied by orchids and champagne, the
Animal Welfare League Ball took place
at the Embassy. The organiser 'was Mrs.
Fred Krcrouse, and the object of the
function was the Lort Smith-Lyle Hos-
pital for four-legged and feathered folk.
Cabaret tables and bar were upstairs;
the bar downstairs relieves congestion,
but there is not the same matey feeling
about long walks in the cold. Noticed
in festive mood were the Jim Sargoods,
she in snowflake crepe with gardenias
distributed evenly between hair and
shoulders, and the Snowy Russells, Mrs.
Russell in black with a bead-embroidered
white coat. Mrs. Jim Watt chose the
warmth of ruby-red velvet, Mrs. John
Clarke the gaiety of a floral design, and
Elsie Champion the tireless attraction of
diaphanous white chiffon.
One of the largest dinner parties ever
held in Melbourne for women only took
place last week, when the auxiliaries of
Queen Victoria Hospital met to cele-
brate the approach of the twelfth anni-
versary of the original auxiliary’s in-
auguration. As was fitting, the party took
place at the Victoria Palace. Women
certainly stand by women; there were
nearly 300 at the dinner. The Queen
Vic. is one of the very few hospitals in
the world for women run entirely by
women.
Among those who plied knives and
forks in amiability were Mrs. John
Sutherland, whose speech pertained to
the early history of the hospital; medical
superintendent Dr. Alice Correll and
Dr. Kate Mac Kay, who represented the
honorary meds. and spoke of the splen-
did co-operation between committees,
auxiliaries, medical, nursing and dis-
pensing staffs. Matron Symons was
there, and Matron Mackay, of the Jessie
McPherson Hospital, was a special guest.
Hon. treas. Miss M. Cuthbertson pro-
posed the toast of the auxiliaries, and
spoke of the untiring work done by their
president, Mrs. W. M. Robins, who was
unfortunately absent through illness. She
sent, a telegram of congratulation, and
members in their turn saw that she had
beautiful flowers to speed her towards
recovery. Another incident of the gather
ing was the presentation of a fountain-
pen to Mrs. Felix Lloyd as a token of
appreciation from the auxiliaries for the
work she has done in the last four years.
Guests of the Victoria League Club
who had gathered to listen to Mary
Cecil Allen speak of her adventures in
the Australian inland had to possess their
souls in patience until the hands of the
clock pointed to 4.40 p.m., for Miss Allen
had a previous engagement that after-
noon at Salisbury, South Yarra, where
in aid of the proposed Women’s College
she gave a lecture on her experiences in
and around the opal fields of Coober
Pedy. This first lecture overran its
schedule, for questions fell like rain at
its conclusion, and Miss Allen always
gets so warmed to her subject that she
can’t answer half-heartedly.
When Miss Allen arrived at the Vic-
toria League Club, tea had already been
served as an antidote for impatience, but
everybody felt so relieved to see the
guest of honor materialise that a wait of
a few more minutes while she had her
tea (she certainly needed it) was of no
moment. Miss Allen didn’t talk much of
the actual township of “The Alice” ; the
surrounding country appealed to her far
more. She admitted that she hated going
down a mine shaft in a bucket, but she’s
no coward ; she slept out several nights
and camped for a time in a dugout with
a family of half a dozen, for the opal-
fields folk prefer underground to surface
houses. She travelled long distances in
service cars which looked as if they
covered thousands of miles on per-
suasion and half a cylinder, and was
greatly impressed by the work of the
Inland Mission and the “Flying Doctor.”
When she returns to America (she must
leave shortly, for she is on the quota, and
there are strict rules about the length of
time “quota” people absent themselves
from the U.S.A.), she should prove a
good ambassador for the land of her
birth.
Throughout last week auction sales
took place in the Lower Town Hall of
the Page-Cooper possessions of furniture,
ohjets d’art and pictures. From the
Chinese rooms there were pedestals of
cherrywood and marble (one in excellent
order went for 225. 6d.), heavily orna-
mented tables, a rare divan (knocked
down for £3O) and its aroma of romance.
It originally came from a temple in
Pekin, was sold during the Boxer Rebel-
lion and acquired some years ago by Mr.
Page-Cooper in Sydney.
The chairs in the Oriental section pro-
vided an interesting picture of the fine
arts of the East applied to the penetra-
tion of the West. Contrasting styles were
a massive-looking Chinese council chair
carved out of cherrywood (which fell for
£7), and a Persian throne chair of teak,
beautifully carved and monogrammed
with Arabic script, which went for
£2 IQs.
From the dining-room and bedrooms
came a great deal of mahogany craft
work of a past era when no one would
think of cutting down a tree to-day and
making it into a piece of furniture to-
morrow. The wardrobes were really mag-
nificent, but they would dwarf any
middling-sized house ; one as large as a
cottage had figured wood even on its
sliding trays. There was some Chippen-
dale, 12 William and Mary chairs with
backs as prim and narrow as were the
minds of the period, and not far away
modern woman who drinks tea six times
a day examined a figured teapot on a
fluted pedestal base, a piece dating back
to the days when tea cost several pounds
a pound.
The pictures were in two sections, one
embracing English, French, Italian and
Dutch paintings and another of 140 oils
and water-colors in which practically
every well-known Australian artist was
represented. There was spirited bidding
for a Penleigh Boyd picture which went
for 85 guineas. Webb Gilbert’s piece of
sculpture “The Bomber” fetched £lOO.
“The Pirates of Penzance” were given
a warm welcome on Saturday night. As
a conclusion to race week everybody
went to town for an impromptu dinner
(all the usual and some of the not-quite-
so-usual haunts were crowded), and after-
wards felt ready to be amused by Ivan
Menzies as “the very pattern -of a
modern major-general,” at bloodthirsty
pirates in petticoats and long red legs of
presentable shape, and at the police with
their batons and torches and protruding
diaphragms who became voluntary flower
distributors after the final curtain.


CHEQUE
I CAN DRAW
—But what of it?
My sort of sketches won’t win me the
Archibald Prize.
Wouldn’t be surprised, though, if
this postman had something—Ah!—
a letter —“Tom Smith, Esq.’’—
that’s me —“the editor’s thanks” —
and, what’s this?—a CHEQUE!
Well, that’s paid for my Course.
Now the rest will be clear profit!
“Tom Smith” joins the small army of successful
Artists trained by us who are regularly receiving
cheques from editors.
And Cartooning is only one of the many re-
munerative branches of Commercial Art. Think
of the vast number of
1 illustrations required, daily
for Catalogues, Maga-
zines, Posters and News-
paper advertisements.
Prosperity awaits those
who are now being
trained to supply the
ever increasing demand
for skilled artists.
What are YOUR Prospects!
Our 80-page hook, “The New Era in Commercial
Art,” will test your ability and point the road to
success. Write for it now. enclosing Bd. for
postage, and mention The Bulletin.
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l, VIC.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
‘“The (JUacleod Q cillery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course. The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Law students subpoenaed a host of
friends to attend their hop at the Em-,
bassy. Magistrate Moseley (with Mrs.
Moseley’s pervenche-blue laces at hand)
and Master-in-Equity T. F. Davies
(whose daughter’s moon-blue georgettes
were exhibit A) were in box seats. Mrs.
J. McMillan answered her summons in
oatmeal lace; Mrs. W. E. B. Solomon
sealed black lacquer satin with gold;
Beth Hatch briefed a jewelled belt to
appear with her black chiffon velvets.
Tennis champion Molly McGrath be-
came Mrs. Boyd King at St. Mary’s
Cathedral. Over her creamy satin, with
its pleated shoulder treatment, wide
folded belt and sunray skirt, fell a point-
lace veil cascading from a satin halo to
the tip of the fan train. “Peter” Smith,
Molly’s doubles partner of long standing,
attended in silver-flecked, dawn-pink
crepe, with bands of quilted, taffeta on
the hem and round the little bolero
coatee.
Cyril Kenny, a great-great-grand-
nephew of Captain Cook, exchanged
vows with Thelma Underwood at St.
Mary’s Cathedral. Two flower girls,
Marie Kenny and Shirley Tregilles, in
old-world apricot taffetas and silver-
edged blue pancake hats, headed the pro-
cession down the aisle. A terraced loam
of tiered tulle frothed over the bride’s
white shadow lace and fluffed around the
all-white bouquet. Matron-of-honor
Mrs. D. Stewart and ’maids Rene and
Enid Underwood were Locked alike in
bouffant-blue taffetas with flower caps.
Most of the hundred guests at the Bob
Jameses’ house-warming made no effort
to conceal their curiosity about the new
abode, groups of them wandering at will
through the rooms. Built on the side of
Mount Eliza, the structure looks like an
Alpine chalet, but, once inside, local color
is provided by jarrah-panelled walls and
polished jarrah floors. The couple, who
are son and daughter-in-law of Waller
James and his lady, received in the lounge
overlooking the Swan, the hostess wear-
ing slinky black velvet glittering at the
neck with diamente.
Blue hyacinths, matching her bouquet,
held Mae Dash wood’s tulle veil in place
when she kept her matrimonial date with
John Hodge. Her- ivory satin, draped
and pleated and flanked with mediaeval
sleeves, swept away into a long fan-shaped
train. Kathleen Dashwood and Fol Cot-
trell, who brought up the rear at the
marigold- and poppy-decked altar, were
picture-gowned in duckegg-blue cloque,
with pleated godets and butterfly bows.
M.L.C. old girls took the floor of
Anzac House ballroom, where acting-
principal Miss C. Corr’s russet satins
were given a special pew. Vice-president
Margaret Giles did the honors with a
giant corsage bow adorning her misty-
blue moire taffetas. Ethel Gordon danced
in gold matelasse studded with jewelled
ornaments; Vera Ward hitched her
snowy-white satins to gold shoulder
straps; an aquamarine sash was tied
round Vivienne Carter’s black taffeta and
net; Mrs. Frank Bartlett-Day wove pink
lace into her luminous black velvets and
a storm of polka dots fell on Pat Gor-
don’s black georgettes.
To cheer Dixie Clement on his way to
study medicine at Edinburgh University,
Peter Jacoby gave a dance at his parents’
home in Mount Bay-road. Mr. and Mrs.
A. W. Jacoby, she in enviable black
French satin, stood at the portals, and
each feminine guest was presented with
a posy of flowers.
Jane, the Titian-haired daughter of the
late Prof. Shann and Mrs. Shann, is
wearing an emerald ring, gift of Captain
Cedric Evans, the militia’s aide-de camp
to the Lieutenant-Governor.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
All sporting Adelaide motored to
Murray Bridge for the Hunt Club’s race
meeting. Over 400 attended the ball that
wound up the day. Giant and midget
horseshoes in red and white, studded with
hundreds of red and white lights, were a
feature of the decorations, and souvenir
silver horseshoes were suspended within
reach of the dancers. Mrs. Frank
Jenkins, wife of the president, received
the guests, gowned in bronze chiffon
velvet and a spray of Lorraine Lee roses
in her short marmot fur coat.
Weather was fine for the racing. Mrs.
Frank Jenkins wore a beige blouse with
her navy tailored suit and felt hat to
tone. Mrs. K. E. C. McLean (Mayoress
of Murray Bridge) wore a fawn check
suit, a brown velour hat, sable furs and
a red silk scarf.
The last of this year’s debutantes made
their curtsies at the St. Peter’s College
Mission Ball, held in the Memorial Hall,
when seven buds were presented by Mrs.
Edgar Hughes to the Bishop of Adelaide
and Mrs. Nutter Thomas. Arum-lilies,
poinsettias and autumn foliage decorated.
Supper was served in the new Da Costa
dining-hail amid marigolds in two shades
and Iceland poppies. The guests were re-
ceived by the headmaster, the Rev. Guy
Pentreath and his wife, Neste Gwynne,
the organiser, and the joint secretaries,
Nancy Magarey and Winnie Bonnin.
The Dental Students’ Ball in the Uni.
Refectory was a huge affair run on
cabaret lines, and drew a bigger atten-
dance than the University Ball itself.
Novelty items were given by pupils of
Jean Bed. The decorations were carica-
tures of personages in the dental world.
The guests were welcomed by president
Malcolm Joyner and his wife, the lady
in accordion-pleated apricot georgette
with a corsage spray in autumn tints.
Mrs. Ray Newling chose a pink-and-
silver striped tunic to go with her black
taffeta skirt, and a spray of lilies-of-the-
valley on the shoulder. Mrs. C. V. Mad-
dern was another who featured a con-
trasting tunic, hers of white matelasse.
Winnie Preedy, one of our women den-
tists, was in white chiffon flowered with
pink roses.
Very cheery was the Stock Exchange
Ball at the Palais Royal. Every box was
booked and beautiful flowers were on all
the tables. In the official box president
H. Thompson and his wife entertained
Andrew Young and his daughter. The
girls on the committee presented Mrs.
Thompson and Miss Young with posies
to tone with their frocks. Mrs. Thomp-
son. who was gowned in black circ net
smartly banded with cellophane, with
French flowers in autumn tints worn at
the waist, had a bouquet in yellow tones.
Miss Young, whose frock was of a vivid
green angel-skin lace moulded to the
ligure, carried a posy of pink roses and
carnations.
Mrs. Reginald Walker celebrated her
birthday by giving a cocktail party at her
home, Folkstone, Kensington Gardens.
The reception-rooms, full of the many
curios brought home from their
numerous trips, were decked with Iceland
poppies. Husbands were entertained by
Mr. Walker in the smoking-room. Mrs.
Walker’s black satin beaute was cut on
diagonal lines, the bishop sleeves of black
net embroidered in beige.
TASMANIA.
Patrons of the racing at Elwick were
raked by a cold wind all the afternoon,
so the attendance was not large. In the
throng were the H. T. Heys, Dr. and
Mrs. James Sprent, Dr. Norman Atkins
(receiving congratulations on his Birth-
day honor), the E. L. Puddicombes, the
H. C. Ikins, Dr. and Mrs. Gaha, Mes-
dames F. Grant, W. B. Propsting and
W. Wolfhagen. Mrs, Colin Bisdee, Joi
Chapman, Margery Sale, Mr. and Mrs.
Thos. Lyons, Mr. and Mrs. L. F. Piesse,
Mrs. A. McGregor and Mrs. Hinman.
Collegiate Old Girls and Huon Rugby
players combined to run a dance at
Huonville. The hall was decorated with
holly and late chrysanthemums, and
dancers gathered from all over the dis-
trict, while several carloads went down
from town.
, Mr. and Mrs. V. I. Chambers cele-
brated the twenty-first birthday of son
John with a party at the Imperial. About
70 of the young man’s friends and con-
temporaries danced in the big room. Red,
very heartening this cold weather, was
the keynote of the decorations —red
candles in silver holders, red japonica
and berries. Stuart Walch, on the eve
of departing for Point Cook to join the
Air Force, was farewelled on the same
occasion.
Geoff Chapman is back in Hobart
after about two years spent in globe-
trotting. Cecil Murray entertained him
at a very jolly sherry party at Prof.
McAulay’s house in Sandy Bay.
“Miss Centenary” Schultze, from South
Australia, had the time of her life in the
Speck, both in the north and the south.
Mountain climbing, receptions, dances,
picture parties, a visit to Government
House and, above all, a day in the thick
snow on Mount Wellington fell to the
lot of the pretty visitor.
Mrs. K. Hall (London), well-known in
former days in Tasmania as Katrine
Fawns, paid the south a short visit, though
most of her time in the island was spent
in the north. She stayed for a while
in Hobart with the Ashbolt lady. Mrs.
Thos. Lyons lunched her at a smart
party, and many old friends extended
hospitality and greetings.
Katherine Helen, elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Parsons, Thirlstane,
and Brian Wragg, Smithton, announce
their engagement.


THEY ARE WHIPS TO BOAST ABOUT
eHI+M *OOIS
133i»3d- 3H-i _ .
jn^ngV
PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14 16-plait handle, 6ft. x 12-
plait thong 34/6
No. 15 16-plait handle, 7ft. x 12-
plait thong 36/9
No. 16—16-plait handle, Bft. x 12-
plait thong 39/-
“KINGFISHER”
STATION STOCKWHIPS
Kangaroo right through and steel-
lined handles.
No. B—lo-plait’ handle, 7ft. x 10-
plait thong 19/6
No. 9 12-plait handle, Bft. x 12-
plait thong 25/-
Postage, 1/3 N.S.W.; 2/- Q’laud and Vic.
WRITE FOR 100-PAGE SADDLERY CATALOG.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
d
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again •
’ n two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
u
A A
p- j;
Write for Booklet
and Details
of Trial Offer.
and PROVE that the
VIBRAPHONE defeats
DEAFNESS
NOW available in Australia.
A perfectly safe hearing aid.
Non-electrical Practically
invisible —No wires No
batteries —No head-bands.
The VIBRAPHONE is
not an artificial ear-drum.
B. NATHAN
37 Austral Buildings,
113 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
s6*
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
•comz-io>s
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
loHr-zoui-f*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD..^fvtalbourrvc
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane-'
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Tennant’s Creek is to cele-
brate the production of £lOO,OOO worth of
gold. It is an achievement, and a pointer
to the mineral which may lie hidden even
in accessible spots in the continent. The
field lies right on the edge of the over-
land telegraph route. For sixty years
passers-by had been chipping black iron
specimens off the moundlike hills which
lie just within the gap a few miles south
of the telegraph line. The region is arid.
Water there is almost as precious as gold.
Feed, in some seasons, is scarcer still.
Even in winter the midday sun has
a temperature of over 90 degrees, but ice
sits on the water drums in the early morn-
ing. In summer there are two flies to
the square inch. But here the pioneers
have built a town, the largest outside
Darwin, and here they have been sitting
down sturdily (some with their wives and
families) for nearly two years. Most of
the time they have made shift with a
battery owned by a foreigner. Crushing
costs have been about £3 a ton. Other
battery accommodation is now available,
and when the Government battery is com-
pleted the many prospectors who arc get-
ting good gold in small quantities look
forward to substantial development.
“M. Turlutu”: ' Brisbane’’,
city fathers recently assured an
anxious world that there was
no risk of any slum-flat menace
in Australia’s largest metropoli-
tan area. The city ordinances
were the best in the world.
Then some traitor drew public
attention to the fact that it is
perfectly legal, under those
same ordinances, to build 45
flats on one 47-perch allotment.
They would only need to face
a street 75 links wide (Brisbane
has plenty), be constructed of
fire-resisting material, provide
375 square feet for each flat
and be three storeys high. An
average population of a little over three
per flat yields 500 residents to the acre—
quite a high slum index. But, as one
civic magnate remarked brightly, from
recent Brisbane birth-rate figures there is
little need to bother about the effect of
flat life on future generations. New ordi-
nances are promised, nevertheless.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: I had a look at the
Yung Ping—Mygreta it is to be on the
Queensland coast and Burke’s Flamin’
Ocean —just arrived from Shanghai, and
other days and other seas came back
vividly. Fore and aft on the bridge and
engine-room deck were heavy grilles of
stout steel bars, sharply pointed. Steel-
plated gates with heavy locks afforded
the only access through them ; steel shields
obscured the navigating bridge against
sly shots from the well deck. Arm racks
were there, and other suggestive depar-
tures from ordinary ship construction.
In spite of any ideas about the wild and
woolly North Queenslander which may
yet prevail in Canberra, they are all to
be removed—they were necessary pre-
cautions against pirates in the ship’s
former trade on the Chinese coast.
Diesel-engined, twin-screw, 1422 tons
gross, she will form a notable addition
under the Burke house flag, most wel-
come of sights in Australia’s furthest-
north waters.
* * ♦ *
“D. Taf.”: Kopit, the train murderer,
travelled for weeks on an all-lines pass
stolen by him at Cairns. All-lines passes
cost £137 6s. a year, and when reported
as lost or stolen a description is circu-
lated in the department’s “Weekly
Gazette” to all railway employees, with
an instruction to watch for it and to have
any wrongful user immediately appre-
hended, Strange that Kopit’s theft
wasn’t discovered, and it doesn’t say
much for the efficiency of the Govern-
ment railway monopoly.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The Queensland
State Insurance Office has been revising
insurance values on trade risks, and some
"I'll get me member to send you down some o' them cactoblastis insects.
They'll kill that stuff for y'!"
of the figures are interesting. Rates are
quoted for each £lOO paid in wages.
Manufacturers of bedding rise from
£1 9s. to £2 15s. ; tree-fellers, from £5
to £9 10s. with blasting, from £3 3s. to
£5 19s. 6d. without blasting; grooms in
training stables, from £4 to £6 Bs. Quarry
workers are assessed as equal risks to
training stables. Both are higher than
riders in buckjumping shows, whose rate
rose only from £2 10s. to £4 15s. The
highest actual rise has been that of air
pilots and flying mechanics, from £lO
to £l9. Aeroplane mechanics whose
duties involve only occasional flights re-
main at £2 10s. as before.
* Jji * %
“Dungeness”: Dead at Charters
Towers (N.Q.), at 92, Andrew Robb, one
of the earliest pioneers of Mackay. With
a brother and cousin he helped to unload
the little steamer Presto, chartered in
1861 by Captain Mackay to bring up
stores and a ready-cut wooden building
which was the first to be erected in what
is now the city of Mackay. Their camp
was pitched between the site now occu-
pied by Wells’s Hotel and the river.
Later he took an active part in the de-
velopment of the Plane Creek and Pley-
stowe sugar areas, but without much
individual success. Seventy-five years of
the Awful North’s climate failed to affect
his health, until he broke a hip owing to
failing sight. He leaves three sons to
carry on an honored name in the Mac-
kay district, and two married daughters.
* * * *
“Amity”; Nature having failed to pro-
vide Queensland with snow for winter
sports the Bananalanders are trying the
next best thing. Moreton Island, which
encloses Moreton Bay, boasts many huge
slopes of hard white sand. Skiers are
utilising these, and for coasting at least
they are little inferior to snow. Sledge
running is not so successful because the
experimenters are using the Swiss bob-
sleigh with its narrow runners. I sug-
gest that they try the Canadian sleigh of
flat birch bark.
* *
“Buderim”: The climbing of Nindherry
Mountain by a large party of hikers
the other day reminds me of the
pretty little legend which centres in
that peak. Nindherry stands prominently
out of the damp, river-threaded plain
north of the Maroochy River, as im-
mobile as its brother, Coolum. Accord-
ing to the abo. story —though I doubt
whether any abo. had sufficient sense of
plot to invent it—Nindherry was a
straight young warrior, a shape suggested
by the hill of to-day, married to a maiden
named Maroochy (Black Swan). Coolum,
a fat, bald Lothario—as he still is in his
permanent form —stole her and started
for the beach. In his anger, Nindherry
seized the first missile to his hand to
heave at him, and unfortunately it hap-
pened to be his mother-in-law, who now
sits coldly in the sea as the Old Woman
Island. The revengeful old dame
promptly turned the two rivals info moun-
tains and dissolved their casus belli into
a flood of tears which have since flowed
as the Maroochy River. Who solidified the
old lady herself, tradition does not tell.
Perhaps it was Tom O’Connor, the doyen
of the Maroochy pioneers. He has cer-
tainly been there almost long enough to
have taken part in the building of the
landscape, which he has seen change
from a lonely and beautiful desolation of
overhanging timber to a series of flourish-
ing seaside resorts with an aerodrome
and motor roads.
❖ * * *
“Koji”: Queensland hotelkeepers are
disturbed at the outlook for license with-
drawals in country towns. The new law
lays it down that licenses shall be in the
proportion of one to 700 inhabitants, and
on this basis many towns are over-
supplied with pubs. Toowoomba (pop.
27,000) has more than 50 licenses, while
Cooktown, with 300 or so souls, has five.
It is likely that a number will be can-
celled and placed in a kind of reserve
from which they can later be issued for
districts with less than their quota.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Voice breathed in the school
chapel, C. of E. Grammar School at East
Brisbane, when Patricia Crawford, lovely
in her frock of dusky-pink wool and hat
of nut-brown velours, became Mrs.
Leslie Grant Fraser. David Crawford
gave his daughter away, and Erica Craw-
ford, in dusky-pink and brown hat with
a short, stiff eyeveil, ’maided. Carnations
and Geraldton wax plant formed the
bride’s bouquet, and sister carried car-
nations and sweet-peas. A. S. Gehrmann
was best man. After the ceremony, Mr.
and Mrs. David Crawford entertained at
Rowe’s, the latter wearing navy wool de
Chine with a shoulder trail of orchids.
Glengariff, home of the T. C. Beirnes,
was a mass of colored lights and flags for
the coming-out dance of two grand-
daughters, Joan Hooper and Sybil Doug-
las. Poinsettias and greenery decked the
verandahs, and the supper-room was a
study in white and gold—white-and-gold
checkered cloths and bowls of golden
gleam. Mrs. T. B. Hooper and Mrs. H.
A. C. Douglas were hostesses, and Mrs.
T. C. Beirne, regal in black ring velvet,
helped to entertain. Joan Hooper wore
a cape of pink ostrich feathers with her
Empire gown of magnolia satin, and
Sybil Douglas chose a waffle-quilted cape
and a frock of pink organza, very close
fitting and Victorian in the bodice, the
skirt very flaring. Over 120 guests sat
down to supper.
Dorothy Helmrich was the guest at
the Brisbane Women’s Club at a musi-
cal afternoon. Rev. Nathan Levine gave
a talk on Jewish music, and Mrs. G. L.
Byth received the 70 guests. Archie Day
played to illustrate the speaker’s remarks.
Mrs. Ruby Eve and Ernie Moss’s
afternoon entertainment in Finney’s audi-
torium was attended by hundreds. Essil
Longland and J. Robertson demonstrated
the newest ballroom steps, the Little
Cinema people shot a scene from “Man
Proposes,” Ruth Portrate and Pat
Graham sang, and the Blue Moon band
supplied music. Iceland poppies were
used for decoration.
Lottie Peters, of the metropolitan
branch of the Q.C.W.A., has several ship-
loads of pirates, schoolgirls, black mam-
mies and a varied assortment of animals
ready for the toy stall which will be held
at the Exhibition during Show Week.
Queensland wool and Queensland-grown
cotton are used in making toys, and the
stall is to be housed in the Wool Hall.
Profits will go to the upkeep of the sea-
side home, Linga Longa, Sandgate.
Delegates to the congress of the Aus-
tralian Provincial Press Association
had a busy week. They motored all over
our bridges—lndooroopilly, Grey-sfreet,
Victoria Bridge—inspected the begin-
nings of the Jubilee Bridge, and then
whirled over the Hornibrook Highway
between Sandgate and Woody Point. The
Fox Movietone people put on a special
show for them at the Astor Theatre, fol-
lowed by supper. And there was a
Mayoral reception.
Joan McLeod, daughter of the Scott
McLeods, of Terrica, who entertained
the Duke of Gloucester while he was in
Queensland, has cabled home the news
of her engagement to Alan Reginald
Garner Bickell, purser of the Mongolia.
Daily the landscape is decorated with
brides driving off to church, all pensive
and downcast, with their fathers, or
dashing back from the wedding, radiant,
beside their new husbands.


“KITS OF PARTS”
FOR ALL “BULLETIN” SETS , ETC.
“THE LITTLE
TWIN”
Described 31111’36.
Double Valve All-
wave Battery Set.
Complete Kit, S.S
Assembled and
Tested
£6/5/-
The Handy-man’s
Volt-Ohm-Milliamp-
meter.
Complete Kit, CO j C
as specified. . v “ 1 / ”
Calstan Meters . . 33/6
Engraved Panels . . 87-
Box to hold .... 4/6
Special Shunts .... 5/-
Specially Picked I.R.C.
Resistors, each ... 1/3
“THE IDEAL
AMATEUR
SUPERHET”
Described 1514 36.
This is the most out-
standing s.-w. set in
Australia.
KIT OF PARTS,
£9/15/-
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
5 and
d. g. Mclntyre,
ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
KITSET/7,
cmJiie&Q
/
Battery “International’
7-valve Dual-wave,
£l3/17/6.
\>
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA43S7
RADIO NEWS
HANDY-MAN’S VOLT-OHM-MILLIAMMETER.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Not so long ago the popular portable
test equipment for the radio serviceman
or mechanic was a comprehensive
analyser. This, in addition to providing
A.C. and D.C. voltage readings, ohms
and milliamps., had combination plugs
and sockets for valve tests in situ, with
large capacity and inductance tests to
boot. The weak point in such a com-
bined instrument was the unreliability of
valve tests. Plugs and sockets were liable
to develop trouble with constant use,
and the fact that the receiver might be
responsible for incorrect valve readings
rendered the checking of valves in this
way uncertain. The analyser of this type
referred to has practically disappeared,
and valves are tested by portable and
thoroughly reliable valve testers. The
part of the analyser mostly used was the
connection for reading D.C. voltages,
resistance and current, and thus the
modern simplified tester for these prim-
ary functions has become popular.
Such commercially - manufactured
testers are not overexpensive, and for the
average radio constructor the home-made
article is not difficult to make up. The
construction of a multi-purpose analyser,
however, calls for a lot of patience and
experience, and for those who must have
them they are better left to the specialist
factory. The writer possesses an analyser
made by a leading factory, and in some
years of radio construction does not
recall using the analyser portion more
than once, but volt, ohm and milliam-
pere readings have been in constant
demand.
Many requests have been received from
time to time for details of a simple tester
which will provide these fundamental
measurements. The circuit and details
of the one described here are due to Mr.
Schematic circuit of the handy-man’s volt-ohm-milliammeter.
D. G. Mclntyre, of Price’s Radio Ser-
vice, Sydney, and examination will show
that it is neither complicated nor expen-
sive. Easy-to-procure parts have been
purposely used, for it is realised that
many readers will have a meter or other
suitable parts on hand.
It is suggested that an engraved panel
be purchased, thus imparting a profes-
sional appearance to the finished unit.
In the earlier days of tester design the
practice was to buy a 0 to 1 milliammeter
The appearance of the completed instrument.
and to make a calibrated chart corre-
spending to the readings. In these days
meters are available with multi-reading
scales of suitable values. If a 0 to 1
Triplett type is to hand, Price’s can
supply card scales to suit. The agents
other meters could no doubt provide
similar scales.
In the construction of this tester,
standard 1 watt I.R.C. resistors are used,
these being accu-
rate enough for
the purpose. If
an error is intro-
duced, it is so
small as to be of
no consequence.
The shunt for
milliamp. read-
ings has to be
specially made,
and this type of
series shunt is
used for a specific
reason. The
switch is a simple
but sturdy affair,
and the meter
cannot be dam-
aged by turning
the switch from
Ima. reading to a
higher value as
when using the
double-bank type
of switch.
The use of a
5000-ohm poten-
tiometer is rather
unusual, but this
makes an ideal
resistance for use
in the resistance
reading circuit. A stop can be soldered to
this potentiometer so that the rotor can-
not be moved back too far, the position
for the stop being determined when the
meter is wired up and the battery con-
nected. The correct position is where
the adjustment allows the meter to indi-
cate just over full scale. This allows for
meter adjustment as the battery voltage
drops.
Constructional Points.
The actual making-up presents no
and the circuit diagram, being
schematic, shows exactly where every
wire goes. If the panel is not
ready drilled it will need mark-
ing out and drilling for the
meter, terminals, etc. Ter-
minals may be of the spring
or ’phone-tip jack type. The
potentiometer is fitted in the
end of the box as indicated,
and the 44-volt battery is
clipped to the bottom of the
box in such a position as not
to obstruct the meter when the
panel is screwed down. The
resistors are connected as
shown, and the shunt presents
no difficulty. Merely follow'
the plus and minus marks as
in the diagram. It may be
necessary to turn the switch
round slightly so that it does
not obstruct the top of the
potentiometer.
The test leads are the last
item to be made up, these
being connected by red and
black flex wire. If everything
is connected as in the diagram,
the tester will be ready for use
by setting the switch to the de-
sired position and connecting the test
leads to the indicated connections.
If it is intended to use the instrument
as a portable unit, it can be fitted into
a small carrying case. These are obtain-
able at 13s. 6d. ; but if it is to be used
for bench work the box shown in the
illustration is quite suitable. Whichever
way it is used, it is an indispensable
piece of apparatus, and in this form is
indeed a handy-man’s tester. The com-
plete kit can be obtained from Price’s
Radio, Sydney.
Parts Required.
One Calstan, Paton, Triplett or other high-
grade 0-1 milliammeter with suitable
scale.
One panel of iin. bakelite (recommended ready
engraved).
One three-point switch.
One special instrument pointer knob.
One 5000-ohm potentiometer and knob.
Eleven spring terminals or tip jacks.
Four specially-selected I.R.C. resistors: 10.000,
50,000, 250,000, 500,000 ohms.
One special series shunt.
One pair test prods.
Two yards push-back wire—one yard red,
one black (for test leads).
Two ’phone tips.
Three screws for attaching meter.
One 4.5 volt (No. 1000) battery and holding
down strip.
Four lin. 4g. japanned screws for attaching
panel to box.
One box or portable carrying case.
Eighteen solder lugs.
Two yards Lenz single covered push-back wire.
D. B. K.
All Round the Dial.
“D.8.K.”: Australians and Americans
co-operated happily again in the case
of Kelvin Rodgers, aged three, whose
life was endangered by the pres-
ence of a nail in a lung. Thanks to that
co-operation, mother and youngster went
to the U.S.A., and the operation was a
success. Through General Electric
station W2XAF and Australia’s VK2ME
the boy’s father, in Melbourne, was en-
abled to speak to his wife and his son at
Philadelphia, conversations being broad-
cast by national stations. Like the opera-
tion, the experiment was a triumph.
Short waves have made such things pos-
sible, and A.W.A. and G.E.C., of U.S.A.,
are to be thanked.
:j: :j! * *
Australian playwright William Fitz-
maurice Hill has been notified that his
play “England Expects,” broadcast pre-
viously in Australia on Trafalgar Day,
1935, has been accepted by the 8.8. C.
for Empire transmission on October 31.
Since commencing play-writing three
years ago, Mr. Hill has won several
prizes, including one for his play
“Kitchener,” based on the life work of
the great British general. He was edu-
cated at Trinity Grammar, Melbourne,
served in the A.I.F. and was associated
with the naval wireless service.
* * * *
So popular have been the the A.B.C.
serials broadcast every Monday night at
8 o’clock from station 2BL that in future
they will be featured from station 2FC
at the same time on Mondays instead of
2BL, being transmitted over a national
network embracing N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland and South Australia. For
this session Edmund Barclay has written
a colorful tale of the China Seas,
“Shanghai.”
Following the 8.8. C. example, the
A.B.C. has decided to do weekly reviews
of current film releases. There are ses-
sions each Monday evening from 2BL at
8.30, the reviewers being Denzil Batchelor
and Dr. Keith Barry. Mr. Batchelor
deals mostly with American and Dr.
Barry with British films.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Two items of interest may be noted in
early-morning reception. The first is the
reappearance of 2RO on its old wave-
length of 25.4 metres. The second is the
advent of a Yugoslavian station, announc-
ing under the name of “Belgrade Short-
wave Radio Station,” on 6100 kc.
(49.18 m.). The newcomer is quite a
strong station, but is affected by inter-
ference from another station in the back-
ground, with a resultant continuous
whistle. After 7 a.m., however, the inter-
ference clears, and during the news ses-
sion in English from 7.10 to 7.20 a.m. the
transmission is 100 per cent, copiable.
There are two announcers, who speak
alternately, the one in a deep, heavy
voice, the other in a voice of lighter
timbre. While musical items are occa-
sionally rendered, the station is occupied
for the most part with talks in foreign
languages. It has a characteristic' habit
of filling pauses with a few chords
plucked on a harp.
At 7.15 one morning a new Russian
was heard testing on about the wave-
length of JVM. It was very strong and
clear. There was the usual counting
from 1 to 20, then someone speaking
against a background of subdued music,
then a little singing. After 7.35 it went
into Morse.
RNE, Moscow, has hit upon an in-
genious method of indirect propaganda.
The announcer introduces a number of
juvenile performers. Each is interro-
gated somewhat as follows; “What is
your name?” “Ivan Ivanovitch.” “How
old are you?” “Fifteen years.” “Do
you play much?” “I play a little.” “And
is your mother well?” “Yes, thank you."
“Have you already had your holidays?”
“Oh, yes.” “Where did you spend your
holidays?” Details are given. “Do you
like reading?” “Yes, I’m very fond
of reading.” “Ivan,” says the announcer,
“will now play for you—he plays on the
violin.” Ivan is no Yehudi Menuhin, but
he strives bravely (as does each of the
others in turn) to prove that under the
Soviet regime the amenities are not
neglected.
There are now a number of European
stations to be heard between breakfast-
time and lunch-time, TPA4, GSB, GSP,
DIB, DID, DJA and DJN being among
those at the listener’s choice. It is after
lunch, however, that daylight reception
reaches its peak. Between 2 and 3 p.m.
TPA4 simply roars in, the only fault be-
ing a tendency to spread. On June 29
it presented excellently reproduced music
of Donizetti and Flotow. But the palm
must be given to the Daventry stations


ALL METAL” OR “GLASS”-A VALVE FOR EVERY REQUIREMENT
Radiotrons IC4 and !D4 give greater efficiency and
economy in battery consumption.
Insist on your receiver being equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
(Advertisement or Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited)
CDS and GSB, which combine with
great strength a delightfully fresh, crisp,
colorful tone.
Listeners who are at leisure to tune-in
on Monday afternoons should not fail to
look for HBO, Geneva, on 26.31 metres
after 3 o’clock. It will be heard calling
3LR, Lyndhurst, giving at the same time
attractive musical numbers as well as
the weekly wireless bulletin of the
League’s Secretariat. Reports on various
subjects ( e.g the slave trade, the illicit
drug traffic) are broadcast, together with
many items of news which do not seem
to find their way into our cable ser-
vices. On June 29, for example, it was
stated that Nicaragua had given notice
of withdrawal from the League ; it was
also learned that Portugal had advanced
a proposal—certainly not lacking in
tartness —“that the League should be put
on the level of the men who drew it up.”
Evening reception is still unsatisfactory.
The Japanese JVN has weakened per-
ceptibly, and so have the Japanese PLP
and PMN. The best of the D.E.I. stations
just now are YDB and another on 26
metres. PMY on 58.3 metres is either
indistinct or encompassed by Morse
signals. The Siberian RVIS is strong,
but rather noisy.
Really good talks from Australian
stations are few and far between, and,
when given, meet with little appreciation.
The writer records his gratitude to
H. W. Allen, of Ormond College, Mel-
bourne, for “A Cynic in Hades,” heard
over 3LR.
P. R. W.
Short-wave Transmission Details.
Philips stations PHOHI and PCI,
Holland:
PHOHI, SUNDAY, JULY 19, 1936.
9.30 p.m.—Special transmission for Asia,
China, Japan, Further India.
(Wave-length, 19.71 metres.)
10.30 p.m.—Beginning of the PHOHI pro-
gramme for the Netherlands Indies.
(Wave-length, 16.88 metres.)
11.45 p.m.—From Mail to Mail in Holland
(continuation of the PHOHI
programme).
(Wave-length, 16.88 metres.)
MONDAY, JULY 20, 1936.
4.00 a.m. —Special transmission for Africa.
10.00 a.m.—Special transmission for Central
and South America. (Wave-length,
31.28 metres.)
10.30 p.m.—National Anthem and opening
announcement. (Wave-length,
16.88 metres.)
Station PCJ—HAPPY PROGRAMMES.
Tuesday, July 21, 1936—-
7 p.m.-9 p.m. E.S.T. Wave-length, 19.71
metres.
Wednesday, July 22, 1936
10 p.m.-2 a.m. E.S.T. Wave-length, 19.71
metres.
Thursday, July 23, 1936 —
10 a.m.-l p.m. E.S.T. Wave-length, 31.28
metres.
Similar transmission times are announced
for PHOHI and PCJ up to August 1,
Casual Comment.
“Sach”: “Where angels fear to tread”
has been quoted often, and at the
Amateur Radio Exhibition held recently
two hams must have thought of these
words. A genial Signals corporal was ex-
plaining military wireless equipment, and
was experiencing trouble in making it
clear to the experimenters that the
circuits of the w.t. sets could not be
divulged. They seemed to treat it as a
joke, and claimed their sets could do any-
thing the radio telephony set known in
military circles as the “No. 1 Set” can
do. After a while a bystander joined
the company, and remarked on the
wonderful workmanship of the set. On
being asked if he was a wireless man, ne
replied that he was an electrical engineer,
and recognised a good piece of workman-
ship when he saw it. The two hams
looked down their noses, hung their
heads and ended the little discussion. The
Signals corporal, who is a telegraphist
in the P.M.G.’s department, would have
made them look very foolish had there
been a competition for sending and
receiving on buzzer and sounder signals.
Still, we live and learn, and the compli-
ment, coming from an uninterested
party, has placed this portable r.t. set
one step higher up. It is for speech, as
well as key, and is simple to work. To
add to the beauty of it, it is portable
and can be worked in a car or lorry.
Hams would be given the opportunity of
doing all this should they join up with a
Signals unit.
Latest in the Trade.
Kingsley Diathermy and Radio
Apparatus.
A few weeks ago this Page, discussing
short-wave diathermy apparatus for
medical purposes, stressed that it was im-
portant that such apparatus should be
designed and constructed by competent
radio engineers. A profound knowledge
of radio transmission fundamentals is
imperative if such apparatus is to func-
tion efficiently. It is interesting to note
that one of Australia’s pioneer radio
engineers, Howard Kingsley Love, is now
engaged upon the production of special
short-wave diathermy apparatus, his firm,
the Kingsley Teleradio Constructions Pty.,
of 249-251 Spring-street, Melbourne, now
having available several models of such
equipment. Some evidence of the work-
manship in these productions can be
gleaned from the illustration of the
model K. 8., intended for hospital use.
This is suitable and designed for large
hospitals and clinics, and has an output
sufficient for all short-wave therapy treat-
ments, including artificial fever therapy
and all classes of electro-surgery. It is
mounted in a handsome polished wooden
cabinet with a drawer for electrodes, and
can be supplied in any finish to match
surgery .or hospital appointments. The
control panel is of bakelite, and fitted
with calibrated ammeter, pilot light and
single-dial control with separate ter-
minals for each requirement. A safet'y-
pull-off switch is incorporated, and the
patient can operate this if desired. Both
the pad method and inductotherm cable
can be utilised for medical therapy at a
wave-length of 18 metres. The apparatus
carries a guarantee of 12 months, and the
oscillator valve is guaranteed against
breakdown for 1000 working hours with
Kingsley short-wave diatherm model
K. B., hospital type.
six months’ limit. Power connection can
be made to any A.C. supply from 160 to
240 volts.
A somewhat similar apparatus to this
is the portable model K.C. This weighs
only 401 b., and is very compact and easy
to carry. Another, intermediate, model
is the K.A., for mobile purposes. This
is fitted into a polished wooden mobile
cabinet, from which the unit can be re-
moved for portable work. Then there is
the model K.D., hospital type, with a
higher output than the K. 8., for artificial
fever therapy, enabling a higher tempera-
ture rise in a small time. Although 18
Kingsley high-fidelity dual-wave superhet.
Modern iron cores throughout.
metres is regarded as standard, this
machine can be supplied in any desired
wave-length from six to 25 metres.
Finally, there is the K.E. variable wave-
length hospital model, with an out-
put of 800 watts. Thus these Kingsley
short-wave diatherms cater for a wide
range of requirements for the medical
profession. Prices and further particu-
lars are available from the manufacturer.
Broadcast, dual-wave and battery radio
receivers are also made by this co. The
model illustrated is the Dual 60, which is
a dual-wave superhet employing modern
iron-cored coils and shell-type iron-
cored intermediate transformers. The
audio amplifier is of the high-fidelity
kind, and silent “Magic Eye” tuning is
incorporated. The type of iron cores
used in all receivers from this factory is
unique in Australia, being specially im-
ported from an overseas laboratory.
Coils made with these cores cost the
manufacturer more, but the results amply
justify the expenditure. From the specifi-
cations Kingsley radio receivers may be
ranked with those of the best scientific
design.
Ultra-short-wave DX.
Victoria Makes a Move.
For some time now there has been talk
of attempting communication on the
amateur five-metre band between Aus-
tralia and distant countries. The first
consideration has been the conquest of the
Tasman, but in Victoria a body of keen
experimenters are making a bid to get
further afield from the commencement.
E. H. Cox, VK3BD, leading exponent of
international 10-metre communication in
this country, has laid plans for careful
test schedules at suitable times, and with
the co-operation of several U.S.A.
stations it is hoped that eventually the
Pacific will succumb. VK3BD writes:
“Down here we have recently arranged
a series of five-metre ■ tests with U.S.A.,
and probably some of the Sydney U-H-F
men might like to co-operate. For the
last two Monday mornings we have run
tests, so far without positive results.
Future schedules are arranged for every
Sunday and Monday morning between
10.30 a.m. and 11.30 a.m., Australian
eastern standard time, the arrangement
being that we listen for American signals
for the first and third 15 minutes of this
period, and send for the second and
fourth periods. The time, which,
naturally, will only apply for the next
few weeks, has been fixed only after a
detailed study of 28mc. conditions. It
seems likely that the morning fade-out
period of 28mc. signals is that in which
conditions are likely to be most favorable
for work between Australia and U.S.A.
Observations have led us to the conclu-
sion that if international communication
is to be achieved on the U-H-F part of
the spectrum transmitting equipment must
have frequency stability infinitely better
than that of the old self-excited trans-
mitters used on ‘five,’ VKs 3BQ, 3YP
and I have all got crystal transmitters on
‘five’ with fair efficiency. My own
belief is that, whilst the 10-metre band
is essentially an international band of
very limited value for medium-distance
working, the 56mc. band will be even
more so. The prospects of long-distance
communication will be very much better
if we start right out to work across the
Pacific, instead of attempting first to
work inter-State, or even across the Tas-
man. Probably the ideal time for an in-
tensive test would be the September-
Oclober period of peak conditions on
10-metres, and W6ZH is communicating
with A.R.R.L. suggesting an international
test at that time.”
This leaves two months for all experi-
menters interested in the possibility of
five-metre communication with U.S.A, to
get busy and prepare the necessary equip-
ment. A plea is necessary, however.
While these tests are taking place super-
regenerators and modulated oscillators
should not be used in any circumstances.
Two “transceiver” stations could quite
easily ruin all chances for the majority.
D. B. K.
The Q. and A. Column.
Details of a vibratory power supply suitable
for use with a small portable short-wave trans-
mitter ( C.W .) ? —449.
The diagram shows a very simple affair
which is quite effective. A buzzer is used as
the vibrator, and the better this is both mechani-
cally and electrically the more efficient is the
action. The transformer can be wound on an
old power transformer core, with 100 turns
of 22 D.C.C. for the primary and about 4000
turns of 32 enamelled for the secondary. A
71’A or 20TA is used as the rectifier, half-
wave. Power is taken from a six-volt accu-
mulator, and the filament of the rectifier is also
heated from the same source. The filter is
the usual “brute force” arrangement. About
200 volts D.C. at 25ma. should be obtained.
* * * *
I have seen references 'to a “power buzzer’’
as used in military operations during 1914-
18. Did this differ in any way from the
familiar small buzzer used for Morse code
practice, and how was it used? —450.
Principle employed was exactly the same as
in the small buzzer of to-day. It was, how-
ever, a very sturdy mechanism, and was used
for a very simple method of earth communi-
cation. The main disadvantage was that the
enemy, if in close range, could easily “tap” it,
and the noise of the buzzer itself was con-
siderable. Messages could be exchanged over
a few hundred yards’ distance. The illustra-
tion shows how the device was used.
Wants.
To buy back numbers of “Shortwave Craft,”
“R 9 and Radio,” “Q.S.T;” and 1928 A.R.R.L.
Handbook. —451.


USEFUL DATA ON SUPERCHARGED
GRAHAM SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 8 3-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 6 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 28ft.
Maximum speed, 83.3 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 22 m.p.g.
Only accurate pressures will give your tyres the perfect
balance which means so much to your comfort and safety
on the road. And only a gauge of proved efficiency and
precision is worthy of your confidence■ for the regular testing
of your tyres.
Cheap gauges offer you price advantage, hut ctannot
guarantee the KISMET feature of ACCURACY—which is
so essential in a tyre gauge.
KISMET^
A (jauqe is useless unless accurate-worse it is m
111/, units individually numbered on wide, flat
surfaces.
Sole Manufacturers.: WIELIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
B'6
“SILVER
EDGE •»
tßfuJUbfo&
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service•
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC,
The Steering Column.
IMPRESSIVE ROAD PERFORMANCE
OF SUPERCHARGED GRAHAM SIX.
A TRACTABLE TOURING CAR WITH SPORTS CAR
POSSIBILITIES.
BY FRED BERRY.
P\EVIATIONS from conventional practice in automobile
design usually meet with a cool reception, and the mere
mention of a supercharger being attached to a touring engine
gives to the uninitiated motorist an instant impression of great
speed simply because most racing cars are similarly equipped.
Convention and accepted practice have been confounded by
the fitting of a supercharger to the six-cylinder Graham sedan,
tested recently over the ‘‘Bulletin” course. In this instance,
strangely enough, the designers’ aim has not been extremely high
speeds, but rather to provide the driver with a power unit which
will answer throttle pressure at road speeds between 10 to 40
m.p.h. to such good effect that pick-up and acceleration will be
superior over this range to that of unsupercharged cars having
far greater maximum speeds.
A high average touring speed can be
maintained without ever being forced to
drive really fast, thereby greatly mini-
mising risk of accident at the hands of
the inexperienced driver.
The six-cylinder motor is
neat and compact in de-
sign, all accessories being
readily accessible for pur-
pose of adjustment.
Bore is 3f in.; stroke,
4£in. ; piston displacement,
217.8 cubic inches. R.A.C.
rating is 25.35 h.p. Without
the specially designed super-
charger maximum b.h.p.
is 85, but with the super-
charger and 6.7 to 1
high-compression alu-
minium cylinder head
peak power is boosted
to 112 b.h.p. at 4000
revs., an increase in effi-
ciency of approximately
32 p.c.
Carburettor is of con-
ventional down-draught
type, fitted with economiser, air cleaner
and silencer, accelerating pump, choke
assembly and automatic temperature
control, with thermostat. Between car-
burettor and intake manifold is posi-
tioned the supercharger. This consists
primarily of a casing within which is a
perfectly-balanced vane-type aluminium
rotor driven by gearing from the engine
and turning at five times engine speed.
At maximum revs, its rate exceeds 20,000
r.p.m. The centrifugal action of the
rotor draws the mixture of fuel and air
from the carburettor into the centre of
the casing, and expels it under a pres-
sure of up to 51b. per square inch at the
outer edge, forcing it through the intake
manifold into the combustion chamber.
Both rotor and worm-wheel shafts are
mounted on plain bearings. The lower
Splendid streamlining and racy appearance of the all-steel body of the super-
charged Graham Six.
part of the unit consists of a gear case
enclosing worm drive. No adjustment of
either bearings or gearing is required.
All bearings are lubricated under high
pressure through special leads from the
engine system, a reserve sypply being
retained in the cas-
ing to assure ade-
quate lubrication
during the starting-
up period. The top
half of the rotor
casing is water-
jacketed, maintain-
ing mixture tem-
perature at desired
levels under partial
and full throttle
operation. Petrol-
tank capacity is
15ga1., and fuel is
drawn by a
mechanical pump by external fuel lines
through filters and settling bowl to the
carburettor.
Cylinders are of special grey iron, cast
integral with the upper half of the crank-
case, and the block is cored to allow the
water in the cooling system to completely
surround the cylinders over the full
length of piston travel.
Pistons are of die-cast invar-strut type,
of aluminium alloy, each having three
rings, two compression
and one oil retainer,
above the gudgeon pin.
Four holes in the upper
side of the piston
bosses supply oil to the
piston pins, and 12
small holes in the bot-
tom of the lower ring
groove allow excess oil
to drain back to the
sump. The piston skirt
is ground oval to ensure
uniform clearance in
cylinder at all operating
temperatures. Piston
pins are hollow, hard-
ened carbon steel, anchored in the little
end of the con. rod with a clamp screw
and floating in the aluminium bosses of
the piston.
Connecting rods are drop-forged steel,
machined I section. Big-end bearings are
babbitt-lined, of interchangeable type, a
small metered hole drilled through the
upper half of the bearing cap allowing a
jet of oil to be thrown on the cylinder
bore once each crankshaft revolution.
The crankshaft runs on four large
main bearings of interchangeable type,
with steel shells lined with cadmium
silver alloy.
Shaft is drop forged, fitted with five
integral counterweights and balanced
statically and dynamically. As a further
assurance of smoothness of operation a
torsional vibration dampener is attached
to the front end.
Camshaft is pressure lubricated, and
runs on four large bronze bushes. A
spiral gear integral with this shaft serves
to drive the oil pump and distributor.
A silent adjustable chain connects crank-
shaft to camshaft, and also serves to
drive the supercharger unit.
Valves are of side-by-side type, with
intakes of chrome nickel steel; seat angle
3()deg. Exhausts are of silchrome steel;
seat angle 45deg. Removable valve
guides are of cast-iron. Intake opens
before and exhaust opens 4ideg.
after top centre. Intake closes 47ydeg.
after and exhaust opens 474-deg. before
bottom centre. Distributor points are
set to open 2deg. before top centre.
Tappet gear is pressure lubricated, car-
ried in guides cast integral with crank-
case.
Full pressure lubrication (501 b.) is pro-
vided to all main, con, rod and camshaft
Counterweighed crankshaft, pistons and con. rods fitted
to the supercharged engine.
bearings, timing chain and valve lifters;
spray and jet to cylinder walls, pistons
and gudgeon pins. Oil pump is gear
type, mounted in the bottom of the sump
and driven by a vertical shaft from the
camshaft, oil being drawn through a
large 20-mesh gauze screen and a cart-
ridge type purifier before delivery to
bearings.
The starter motor has positive gear
engagement before current is applied,
reduction gearing with flywheel ring be-
ing in the ratio of 14.4 to 1. Starter
pedal is on toe board. Generator is high
output with voltage regulator; normal
charging rate 14 to 16 amps.
Ignition is by coil and battery (six-volt).
Distributor is mounted above motor and
driven by a vertical shaft from the cam-
shaft. Advance is full automatic, with
both manifold vacuum and governor
control. Firing sequence is 1,5, 3,6, 2,
4; plugs, 14mm. thread with gap 25
thou. ; distributor points gap, 18 thou.
All ignition wires are heavy insulated
and braided, and rubber thimbles are
used at distributor and coil to keep out
moisture. A fuse block mounted on the
dash and fitted with a 20-amp. fuse is
used for protection against damage
caused by a short circuit. The unit-con-
structed power unit and gearbox is
suspended in the chassis at four points
on live rubber supports.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch, in which is incorporated
a newly-designed vibration dampener.
Clutch and brake pedals are of “two
piece” construction, with an upper sec-
tion on which a pad is located, adjust-
able to suit operator. Gearbox, three
Three-speed-and-reverse transmission
case, showing all-silent, helical-cut syn-
chromesh gears.
speed and reverse, is of synchro-silent
selective sliding type. Gear pinions are
all helical cut, and there are gear syn-
chronisers on all forward speeds.
For those desiring slower engine
speeds in relation to road speeds a special


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
POWER
&
STILL M
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WKSTIiKN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 90 Murray Street. PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan 8r05... Ltd., 58-63 Flinders Street, ADELAI OF.
VICTORIA: Starting Fighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets
SYDNEY. ’
Moody & Company, 15 Goal burn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns. ’
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns. 10 Brisbane Street, HOBART
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
Here it is
VAHiNE
MOTOR
GREASE
★
A fitting running mate
for Valvoline Sealed
Lubricating Oil.
Now available in 2 lb. Tins,
2'B. Ask your garageman.
Advt. of J. CARRIGAN, Sydney, Melbourne and throughout Australia
“overdrive” transmission is available at
extra cost. This transmission has all the
advantages of the standard unit, and in
addition permits the motor to turn 30
per cent, slower than when in normal
gear. The overdrive is entirely automatic
in action and can be locked out at the
will of the driver.
Cruising on the open road at 50
m.p.h. the overdrive
actually reduces
engine revs. from
2500 in conventional
top to 1750 in over-
drive, ensuring quieter
operation, reducing
piston speed and pro-
longing the life of the
engine.
The propeller shaft from gearbox to
rear axle is of open Hotchkiss type, with
two metal, needle roller universal joints.
Rear axle is semi-floating, in banjo
pressed-steel housing, with spiral b§vel
drive gear and pinion. Reduction ratio
is 4.27 to I (in overdrive 3.03 to 1).
Chassis is pressed steel, cradled low
between “outboard” springs. A heavy
X central cross member extends for-
ward to form a “K” with the front cross
member to give additional rigidity.
Wheelbase is 115 in. ; minimum ground
clearance 7?in.
Suspension is by “outboard” type
semi-elliptic springs, front and rear, to-
gether with tubular-type, two-way, direct-
acting shock-absorbeh. All shackles are
equipped with pressed rubber bushings.
Front springs have shackled front ends
and kick shackles at the rear ends to
absorb road shock. A sway-eliminating
bar, attached to frame and front axle,
Cutaway section of
rubber spring an-
chorages, together
with “outboard”
bracket.
assists in elimi-
nat i n g rolling
when driving
round corners or
over rough roads.
Steering gear is
of cam-and-roller
type, fully adjust-
able, with 1 Tin.
three-spoke spring
type steering
wheel. Turning
circle 40ft.
Brakes on all
four wheels are of
Graham design,
hydraulic internal
expanding, actu-
at e d by foot
pedal. Emergency
and parking brake
is of mechanical
type and operates on a drum at the rear
of the transmission box.
All steel bodies are Graham-built (im-
ported), with steel roofs unit-welded to
ensure permanently leak-proof interiors.
Body shells arc rigidly reinforced and
safeguarded against noise by liberal
application of sound-deadening materials.
Seats are particularly wide and
properly designed, giving maximum head-
and leg-room, together with comfortable
seating position.
All windows are safety glass. Door
handles may be locked from inside.
Body exterior is rust-proofed to ensure
a secure bond between lacquer and
metal.
Upholstery is high quality and care-
fully tailored, while interior appoint-
ments are tastefully executed. Front
seat is adjustable for length, and the
usual sun visors, windscreen wipers, robe
Diagrammatic sketch of supercharging
mechanism, showing encased gear drive,
cutaway of rotor, carburettor, air cleaner
and intake manifold.
rails, assist cords and concealed lighting
are standard equipment.
Instrument panel is nicely balanced, in-
struments of aeroplane type being
grouped immediately in front of the
steering wheel.
The car taken over the test course, a
six-cylinder supercharged Graham, series
110, four-door sedan, was driven by
A. W. Turner, of Garratt’s, Ltd., N.S.W.
and Queensland distributors. In driving
through busy city traffic the oustanding
features of this car, apart from its general
high standard of roadworthiness, are its
amazingly quick response to throttle
pressure at quite low speeds and the
absence of any whine or mechanical
noise from the supercharging unit. It is
generally supposed that the supercharger
is of greatest benefit at high speeds, but
in this case a pronounced improvement
is shown within the driving range of
everyday touring—between 25 and 50
m.p.h. The cruising speed on the open
road is no higher than that of cars hav-
ing similar maximum speeds, but the
advantage is secured in reaching any set
speed very quickly, while the capacity
to climb steep grades in top gear and
“hang on” to any set speed is far ahead
of conventional “unblown” types.
On the rolling test from 15 m.p.h. in
neutral a distance of 715 yards was
covered before coming to a stop.
Maximum speed clocked over a
measured mile with flying start was 83.3
m.p.h., the time being 43 l-ssec., full
revs, being reached after a comparatively
short run-in.
On the by-pass country section through
Grose Vale, rendered greasy by recent
rain, the car proved stable and handled
the many corners without skidding or
swaying. Climbing the final 2 1-5 miles
of Kurrajong Mountain, and finishing
over the final steepest grade in top gear
at better than 45 m.p.h., the Graham
covered the distance in 2min. 58 3-ssec.
This time has only once been beaten,
and then by a narrow margin of only
2sec., by a car of much greater engine
capacity and higher maximum speed,
using intermediate gears, proving con-
clusively the great advantage in hill-
climbing secured by the use of the super-
charger.
Further proof of its value was given
in tests conducted en route to Penrith:
From 10 to 30 miles per hour in top in
6sec. ; from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in
4sec., and from a standstill to 50 m.p.h.
(corrected) in 8 3-ssec., the latter figure
establishing a record in these tests.
Slow running in top gear over 350
yards occupied 2min. 30sec., averaging
4.8 m.p.h. This was followed by an
accelerated 350 yards in 15 l-ssec., cross-
ing the finishing line at 65 m.p.h. and
averaging 47.3 m.p.h., a performance that
indicates excellent inherent flexibility,
Brakes stopped the car in 28ft. from
25 m.p.h.
Fuel used for the total journey of 119.5
miles was sgal. 3 pints Boz., giving a
petrol consumption of 22 m.p.g. (35.4
ton miles), which at an average road
speed of 38.6 m.p.h. indicated that the
supercharged engine, despite its capacity
for high performance, is economical in
operation.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
N.D. (Cooma, N.S.W.). —Please advise as to
comparative performance, petrol consumption,
etc., of several cars {named).
Refer to chart (B. 8/4/’36) with extracts from
tests.
$ -I' H*
E McD. (Blackall, Q.). —My ’35 six-cylinder
car has developed a peculiar tap in the engine.
Widely different opinions as to the cause have
been offered. Is there any way of determining
exactly, short of pulling the motor down ?
No positive method. A close approximation
of the trouble can be obtained by placing a
length of iron rod, sharpened at one end and
flattened at the other, against various parts of
the engine in turn. With a little experience
this home-made stethoscope should almost cer-
tainly enable you to locate the cause of the
trouble.
* =i= * *
R.C. (Thallon, Q.). —In what order do you
place the cars named for service on work
defined ?
First, No. 4; then No. 1 ; then 2, 3 and 5
equal.
J.B.N. (Bowen, Q.).— Are there machines
made for stripping tyres and converting them
into sleeves, and what is the approximate cost ?
Yes; £l5.
* * * *
H.G.S. (Lismore, N.S.W.). — What are the
correct inflation pressures for 36 x 600 tyres
on ’24 model Master Six Buick, weight 32
cwt. ?
421 b. front and rear.
# jfc ❖
M.O. (Riverstone, N.S.W.).—My ’36 utility
truck, making from 120 to 150 calls each
day, gets only about 9 m.p.g. from petrol.
Is it possible to adjust the carburettor to
better this- mileage ?
Not without sacrificing pulling and accelera-
tion. Figure stated is quite reasonable having
regard to number of stops and starts each day.
R.M.M. (Boggabri, N.S.W.). —If I have the
cylinder head of my 30/98 Vauxhall copper-
plated, what increase in all-round performance
can be expected ?
Improved flexibility, less likelihood of “pink-
ing,” possibly a slight increase in speed and
better fuel consumption. Advise only light
plating, as it is not good policy to increase the
compression unduly in an old motor.
* * * *
A.J. (Kerang, Vic.). —I am considering buy-
ing a 'll model car {named). (1) Is the rear
axle on this type weak ? (2) Is worm drive to
diff. inferior to bevel gearing ? (3) Would
substitution of metal universal joints in tail
shaft in place of existing fabric units lessen
wear of worm gear ?
(1) No inherent weakness, but shafts in a car
of this age may be crystallised owing to fatigue.
Alteration should have no influence on wear
of worm gear, and expense of conversion would
certainly not be warranted.
J.L.S. (Gravesend, N.S.W.). — I recently
damaged the screw cap of the battery of my
six-cyljnder car and a quantity of acid splashed
out, 4oz. of water being required to bring the
level of cell to correct height. Battery seems
to be working all right. Any advice?
Electrolytic in damaged cell is not now of
correct concentration. Advise taking battery to
service station, having damaged cell drained
and refilled with fresh battery acid of exact
strength.
Wants.
T.N. (Warrnambool, Vic.) wants 8-h.p. ’27
Amilcar instruction book.
R.S. (Stanthorpe, Q.) wants 1935 Master
Chev. manual.
“Hey Cresto”; Patrons of the pub
at Marangorell (N.S.W.) have frequently
cursed the miscreant who let the air out of
their car tyres while they refreshed them-
selves. A watcher laid a charge against
the pub’s white cockatoo. Unbelievers
were convinced by a demonstration ; a
car was left with valve caps screwed
down as tightly as possible with pliers.
Cocky unscrewed them without trouble
and depressed the valves with his beak.
Perhaps he liked to hear the air hissing
out; perhaps he was trying to stimulate
business. He may have noted that after
pumping up tyres a man invariably
returns for a cooler.


THE ACE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State,.
Full particulars‘from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie.Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, ‘ HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington . St/
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE— News. Ltd.. North Terrace.
MELBOURNE —A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON— F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, 8.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use ‘‘The Evening Post’
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that "The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LEI
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier" Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, .Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, lad., Adelaide.
Established
1924.
The only , even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T+4 € SATU R.DAY £V£ NIN G
•kv
Is, s published, and circulates in Launceston, and
reaches the 1 principal towns on the North-East,
North-West, and the Midlands. No papers are
published .on Sundays in Tasmania; therefore,
advertise in' ‘‘The Saturday Evening Express"
for the - Sunday readers.
Full information, copies, and’ advertising rates obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTTt, LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers,'36B Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St:, Sydney.
6AM
1000 WATTS
The
Happy Station
•
23 William St.,
Perth, W.A.
Wake up to the
opportunities that
6AM offers you.
The great markets
of the West —
p. astoralis ts —
miners wheat
farmers —all wait-
ing for you to
reach them
through 6AM—
the station that
is received
everywhere.
away from you and tried to get you out of my
system. 1 travelled through the jungle and put a
good many miles between us; and in the end 1
perched myself on the top of Weary Mountain and
invoked the sky gods and the inhabitants of silence.
“And this was the shame of it: that I could stand
there and commune with my gods and try to over-
come the weakness put into me by a woman and
then go down to my campfire and dream about you
with an access of desire. I lay by the fire and imagined
all the joy of making love to you. The madness -
seemed to spread through my blood ; I decided that
everything else could go overboard if only I could
have you. Everything! I was willing to give up even
my country for you—and that, perhaps, is saying more
than I can expect you to understand.”
He sank into an interval of silence, filled only
with his breathing.
“I don’t want you to have brandy if you can
do without it,” said Joyce, watching him anxiously.
“But there’s some here if you would like it.”
“Not now. I may w'ant it later. And you mustn’t
look at me like that, Joyce. My ten minutes aren t
up yet. I haven’t said half of what I want to say.”
“I’ll give you a little longer. But talk as quietly
as you can.”
“I want to tell you about the gipsy country and
what I did to her. You see, I spent a lot of time in
that corner of Papua, and I came to look on it as a part
of the world quite distinct and self-contained. It didn't
really belong to New Guinea, to the British or the
Australians, or to the natives. It was mine.”
The. pain went out of his eyes as the old pictures
came backhand his voice was almost normal as he.
void Joyce of all that he had wanted to do: of his
efforts and disappointments and the final need to
thrust back into himself the passion and desire that
had been allowed to invade him on the hasty journey
from Weary Mountain. , His voice went on through
minutes that Joyce forgot to number, showing her
things that surprised and shocked her, and holding
her in forgetfulness of everything except her new
vision of the man.
“You will see that I had one or two interesting
facts to churn over in my mind through the remaining
months of your stay at the clearing. I loved and
wanted you, and was forced to watch you growing
towards another man ; and at the same time I dis-
covered that my love, if projected towards you, could
disturb and terrify you. All this was bitterness.
“I thought at first it would die away and leave
me in peace ; but there was a shame in the thought of
my disloyalty to the gipsy country. That was why I
decided to apply for furlough. I knew that when I came
back you would be gone, and I hoped that the mon-
soon winds would have blown the perfume of you into
the widest distances of the world. Only then would 1
be able to feel that I was in my own country again.”
He told her of the way he had read her letter,
making no excuses. And he spoke briefly of his
final terrible restlessness and the journeying that had
brought him at last to this valley. But he did not
tell of the things he had seen here. For some minutes
he lay without speaking, resting after the effort of
talking.
“Drink this,” said Joyce, bending over him with
a glass.
He gulped obediently.
“Don’t take this too seriously, Joyce. I don’t
mind how angry you become. But 1 don’t like that
look in your eyes, and there’s no color in your
face”
“I’m all right,” broke in Joyce rather quickly
and in a voice that sounded strange to Paul. “But
I can’t let you talk on like this. We’re wasting
precious time.”
“Whose time is it? I’ll grow tired soon, and I
want to talk while I can. Give me a little longer,
and then Fll put myself in your hands, and you can
do what you like with me. How does that suit you?”
Joyce' nodded.mnwillingly. He lay a little longer
in silence, his eyes turned towards her face, a half-
smile breaking through the blur and lingering about
his mouth. It had been easy to tell the truth ; but
now he must go carefully.
“There’s not much more. I came here this
morning and waited. In the afternoon I crept into
the house. 1, was here when Burnley, came, and later
I heard you calling for him.” I was like a dirty shadow
over the place at'the one time you wanted it to be clean.
“After a time I hid in the library. There was
nothing complicated in my plans. I had found that
1 could disturb you by projecting myself towards you in
thought and feeling, and I set out to do it as never
before. I sat there hour after hour, concentrating my
thoughts upon you. I wanted to come between you and
Burnley. The old jealousy and the old desire were too
much for me. you see ; and I thought that if you
became depressed and troubled you would begin; to
doubt your attitude towards your proposed marriage.
Hesitation might be the beginning of delay. I believed
1 was strong enough to keep you apart from Burnley.
In any case, 1 knew that if I couldn’t stop you from
marrying him I could-do a lot towards making both
of you unhappy. There was vileness in me, you see.
“I guess love’s a * big/ thing and ' a queer thing,
and it plays about wit 6 us in different ways. It seems
to have stirred up a latent evil,'as far as I’m con-
cerned. Because I couldn’t have you for- myself I
set out to do you as much harm as I could, creeping
into your thoughts like a vapor out of those Papuan
swamps. And I called it love!”
She was bending over the lounge.
“It was love, Murdoch,” she whispered. “I’ll
always believe that. And I can’t help, thinking there
are things you’ve left untold. ’. It doesn’t matter. I’m
not going to worry you about them. But I’ve seen
a promise of bigness in you, and I’ll never believe
that you merely wanted to make me unhappy. You’re
hiding behind your roughness.”
He turned his face away from her and seemed
unwilling to talk any more. ’ -
“It’s all right,” Joyce said .* gently. “I’m not
going to bother you with questions.” -
He turned his head^slowly.
“And you don’t want to hate me?”
“No, Murdoch. Something has gone wrong some-
where between us. There’s an outline of bigness in
you, and if you tried to separate me.from Paul it
could have been from no base vmotive, ,1 haven’t
forgotten the way you spoke to me one night after
Paul had gone away from us in Papua.”
He watched her a moment longer, until some-
thing he saw in her eyes appeared to confuse him.
“There!” he said gruffly. “You started off by
telling me not to talk, and now -you're doing your
best to make me talk more than ever. And what
about that examination? Are you going to keep
me lying here like this until I die?”
111.
Joyce called Paul to help her, and together, and
as’ gently as possible, they moved Murdoch on to his
side. Paul held the candles while Joyce tried to pene-
trate the secrets of the bruised back, but in the end
she was forced to remain in doubt. They made
Murdoch comfortable once more, and Joyce gave
him brandy.
“Let me see you lift your leg. Either will do.”
Murdoch made an effort.
“I’m afraid I can’t.”
He stared towards his legs with a puzzled frown.
“They’ve always been pretty good legs. It’s queer
that they should let me down like this.”
Suspicion rose into his eyes.
“Back broken?”
She turned away rather quickly.
“I don’t .think so. But it's not always easy to
know. I’ll need some help and advice.”
“ You you’re going to get hold of another
doctor?” i ~
“I think it will be necessary.”
“I’ll be pleased if you don’t bother,” he said
presently. “I’ve an idea that half a dozen of you
couldn’t do anything for me, and I don’t want to
be pulled about. I’m beginning to feel a little easier.
There isn’t so, much pain, and I want to be left alone.”
Joyce moved away from the lounge and walked
to the windows. She stayed there some minutes, look-
ing out at the night. Presently she beckoned to Paul,
and when he hurried to her side she told him in a low
voice that she would have to call in a surgeon.
“It’s serious then?”
“Tm afraid so.”
“You think his back is broken?”
“It’s impossible to say. A minor fracture could
cause his present symptoms, and we won’t know with
any . certainty unless we operate. I’m inclined to
suspect a fracture at the big danger-spot —the junction
of the dorsal and lumbar regions of the spine. In
that case we shan’t ,be able to do anything for him ”
She was trying to speak quietly, but her voice
was unsteady.
“It might be hours yet,” she went on, “before
he shows unmistakable signs of fatal injury, and I
can’t afford to waste all that time. There’s only one
thing to do, and that is to get hold of a surgeon and
operate. It’s a job I couldn’t do on my own.”
“Then you’ll want me to hurry off to Guildford?”
She shook her head.
“I wish I could send you. But I can’t. If only
there were a telephone in the house! But it’s no
use wishing. I’ll have to go myself—for two reasons.
I know the valley paths better than you and can
find my way in the dark. I could get through to
■ Gomshall and get V car into Guildford more quickly
than you. And the second, and most important
reason, is that I want to be able to talk to the doctor:
to tell him what I think about the case and what we
need out here.”
“I see. Then you’ll leave me to look after
Murdoch?”
“If you don’t mind. He won’t be any trouble.
There’s nothing you can do for him except see that
he’s comfortable and give him a drink if he wants
one.”
(To be concluded next week.)


I
(Jhis masterpiece is (Perfection
T' the spirit he always senes.
w
m
c
m
4
&r*Jr
m
m
m
m
%
aag
k
a
>s'
>-v<
*4i
Me JVa/ne
r
JS
OhTMI <n ib TMvurn«»»(«»'H4A«AiflM»>a>s.»**.wi«*j!«jaaaJ>i*Miu>.i!Wo!n:
(D'CaUuros
f <>
w
111/
jr
(DTdllums
Scots CUbisky
-JS 9urr~*~~
( rvy-#»# .*97; *v«
DISTRIBUTORS FOE THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT &. CO-, Adelaide,
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gfsd
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and Neiv
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
*>i
&
4s* v e ts- V l ' - o^*
O'
**>
<V" p .S'<*
' &?&%?s&%.*'otfZrACt
v a e vv^lw'
e ’ #
o.t
£*
■•■; ■
ntfr ■ •‘** •’■’
ap ¥ o' .•• .•• 3 *
Mr¥l »
vO"'


AT
S NE
BINE'
LISE
P HO
Cl A L
m
r/ct&mci
mi
<■
PROVIDES IT
Dual-wave Receivers, Broadcast Receivers,
A.C.-D.C. or Battery Receivers with every
feature which has made the Tasma famous
—are offered at Special Moderate Prices
in the New
CORONATI
SERIES
A Thousands of families needed a receiver which was larger than
a mantel set but smaller than a console—a receiver possessing
every Tasma quality and feature, yet moderate in cost.
The Tasma “CORONATION” Series is the outcome. The Tasma
“Coronation” Receivers measure 21 inches high, 15 inches wide
and inches deep—but they have full-size speakers and parts, and
the full beauty, range, tone and volume which distinguish the
most costly Tasma model. The cabinets are beautifully designed
by Beale in specially selected woods.
VICTORIA; Hartleys Pty., Utd., 370 Flinders
Street* Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North Ballarat.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Oliver J. Nilsen & Co., Etd.,
49 King William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons, Utd., 674 Hay
Street, Perth; 51 Adelaide Street, Fremantle;
and at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Bunbury.
Carlyle & Co., 915-017 Hay Street, Perth.
DISTRIBUTORS
OUEBXSLAND: G. J. Grice, Etd., 90 Queen Street,
Brisbane, and Branches at Gympie, Mary-
borough, Rockhampton, Townsville. Cairns
and Mackay.
JOABEING DOWNS: Rosenstengels Tty,, Etd,,
Buthven Street, Toowoomba.
JV K VV ZEALAND: New Zealand Electrical Equipment,
Etd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington.
TASMANIA: Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Etd.. 30
Argyle Street, Hobart; 59 George Street,
Eaunceston.
• MOIHSI- :!50: Detail-built Six-
valve Dual-wave Receiver (A.C.-
D.C.). Has all the features of
the Tasnm Model 363, and can be
operated from any 200-260 volt power
main in the city or country on either
alternating- or direct current.
• MODEL 360; Detail-built Five-
valve Broadcast Receiver (A.C.i.
Low in price. It brings really
modern faultless radio within reach of
every family. All the wonderful Tasma
features are embodied in this set —the
remarkable Ferro-Coil Assembly, the
air-conditioned transformers, the Tasma
Bandspread Dial, Automatic Volume
Cortro’ Continuously Variable Tone
Control.
t MOBBL, 370: A.C.-D.C. Six-valve
P Broadcast Receiver. A receiver
which incorporates the wonderful
improvements of Ferro-Coil and the
Tasma Band spread Dial, and it may
he used for reception from any 200-2(50
volt power main operating- on alternat-
ing or direct current in city or country.
SEE THESE
“ CORONATION ”
MODELS
• MODEL, 365: Detail-Built Five-valve Dual-
wav© 'Receiver (A.C.), including the out-
standing Tasma FERRO-COIL Assembly,
the Tasma Bandspread Dial with velvet tuning
drive, every degree on the dial split into five for
easy tuning, and showing all broadcast and short-
wave stations. Other features Include full auto-
matic volume control —all critical parts vacuum
impregnated against, climatic changes—reception
from 18-50 metres on short-wave —heavy duty
components throughout: guaranteed trouble-free
reception always—doublet aerial terminals—
voltage variation switch and noise suppressor-
free fire and burglary insurance.
m MODEL 310: Five-valve Detail-built Dual-
m wave Receiver. Truly the most amazing
Dual-wave ever offered to country listeners.
It has, of course, tb© exclusive FERRO-COIL.
It has large Flood-lit aeroplane type Bandspread
Dial marked with the main broadcasting and
short-wave stations of Australasia and the world.
The Tasma “310,” in addition, possesses Automatic
Volume Control, ensuring constant volume
independent of the strength of the station. And
there is NO FADING!. Fully guaranteed for
12 months and is insured free against Fire and
Burglary.
• MODEL 375: Four-valve Detail-built
Broadcast Receiver. A low-priced, extremely
economical receiver which will give you
nation-wide coverage and perfect full-toned
reproduction without interference, at any desired
volume. Air-conditioned to give factory-perfect
reception under all climatic conditions and
equipped with Tasma exclusive FERRO-COIL.
Every vital part in the receiver has been vacuum
impregnated as a positive protection against
dampness and climatic changes. Insured free
against Fire and Burglary'.
Ask yonr dealer for particulars of the special
low prices offering in the “Coronation” series.
