

z\\
V
:
:!
«
II
m
■ K
S 3
!j
i
t i
i
EH
\ i
il
mi i
T |«?r .- ; ; i
ai ! i *!<;!'
1
;
I
ih
HUH
E®
Et . I I i
'MS
RAINY night traffic-clogged streets the fear of acci-
dent lurking with every cross-road. The familiar cloaked
figure standing straight and undaunted at his post, unweaving
the mesh of traffic and dispelling the fears of motorists and
pedestrians alike The Police Officer, Symbol of Safety and
Guardian of the people’s interests.
So Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. stands guardian over the inter-
ests of the investing public, giving them that assurance of safety
and security, which comes frorrr an unparalleled knowledge of
the investment markets of the Southern Hemisphere.
The principle of offering shareholdings in ESTABLISHED Com-
panies only, guarantees results with security; furthermore,
the policy which guarantees that balance sheets and full infor-
mation regarding investments is available at all times to the
investor, ensures both Safety and Security. A free service, cov-
ering such information, together with the monthly circular,
“PROFITS,” is available, free, on application to :
Hamilton* ( j)usiraiasu) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY,
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Buildingf,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
M
Chamber of Manufacturers’ Bldg.,
14 Pirie Street,
ADELAIDE,
Box: 650 P,
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington. N.Z.
The Bulletin
“Prepared to Fight (Page 8)
Vol. 57.—N0. 2919.
Wednesday, January 22, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
My Address ...
S.B. 336
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
SIXTEEN
VETERANS
Recently, for
want of some-
thing better to
do, I began to jot
down the names
of short - story
writers and poets who helped to fill The
Bulletin before the twentieth century,
and who are still living. I confined my
list to male writers whose works have
appeared in book form, and the muster
totalled 16. In alphabetical order, they
are J. H. M. Abbott, Arthur Adams,
Arthur Bayldon, Randolph Bedford, E. J.
Brady, Albert Dorrington, Con Drew,
“Smiler” Hales, Will Lawson, Hugh
McCrae, Bernard O’Dowd, Will Ogilvie,
"Banjo” Paterson, Roderic Quinn, E. S.
Sorenson and C. H. Souter.
What an interesting lot they are! Most
of them are significant figures in the his-
tory of Australian literature ; The Bulle-
tin continues to hear from nearly all
and several are still fairly regular con-
tributors. Had I the funds I should like
to arrange a dinner in their honor, though
Albert Dorrington, “Smiler” Hales and
Will Ogilvie would have to be brought
from Great Britain.
“Banjo” Paterson I would place at the
head of the table, for he is the oldest of
them all: 72 in February. “Banjo” began
writing bush ballads for The Bulletin
when he was a law clerk, half a century
ago. Among other things he has been a
war correspondent in four different
scraps: in South Africa, the Philippines,
China and Egypt. He was in the Re-
mounts from 1915 to the end of that
shindy. He was fit enough when I last
saw him —at a polo match at Kyeemagh,
Sydney^—to have taken on his old job
in the current dogfight.
Perhaps “Banjo” could be induced at
this imagined dinner to solve the riddle
of who. was the original Clancy of
“Clancy of the Overflow.” More likely
he would spin some of his diverting
yarns,. I remember a tale about his ex-
perience as a starter at a race meeting
at Cheefoo (China). In one event the
riders were a German Jew, a Rus-
sian, a Swede, an English officer, an
Australian, a half-Chinese and a nonde-
script. Most of the Chinese ponies had
to be blindfolded to enable their riders
to mount, and the Swede created a ter-
rible scene when he found that he hadn’t
drawn the inside position. To have
“Banjo” tell the story of that race —in
detail! —would make the worst dinner
in Sydney well worth eating.
Will Ogilvie might be at “Banjo’s”
right hand, for Ogilvie shares “Banjo’s”
passionate love of horses. I don’t sup-
pose Ogilvie is quite the handsome fellow
he was when he roamed a district
bounded by the Coorong, Cunnamulla,
Coonamble and Condobolin, as drover,
horse-breaker, rouseabout and gentle-
man-at-large. Probably the years he
spent as Professor of Agricultural Jour-
nalism in the lowa (U.S.A.) State Col-
lege, and the fact that he is now a Jus-
tice of the Peace, have given him an
austere look. Still, he would interest
“Banjo,” telling of the days when he
was breaking horses in a tangle of hair,
greenhide and dust at Parkes, or of the
time he was heading to Cowra with 4000
old ewes on the dusty Canowindra track,
and he and his mate had only one
possum-rug between them. Ogilvie slept
beneath pages of The Bulletin, to which
he was then contributing verses as
“Glenrowan.”
Roderic Quinn had better be seated
to the left of “Banjo,” since the Irish in
him would help to counterbalance the
Scotch in Ogilvie. Thus seated, his un-
ruly hair falling across his forehead, his
blue eyes peering beneath shaggy eye-
brows, striking a box of safety matches
to a pipeful of tobacco, Roderic could
majestically growl through his nicotine-
stained moustache or softly whisper as
the mood took him.
Quinn is a phenomenon of literary
Australia. He is the only Australian poet
who has lived all his adult years on the
proceeds of his poetry. When Rod
was nearly 20, after being fired by a
potato-merchant and spending a period
studying for the Bar, he became a school-
teacher at Milbrulong, near Wagga. He
was paid 30s. a week, and when the
Government reduced his pay by more
than ss. per week Rod decided that
even writing poetry offered a better
living. He has gone on proving it since
1890.
Roderic would have to wear a high
white collar for the dinner in memory
of Victor Daley, who had a habit of
using Rod’s collars when he ran out
of paper.
Randolph Bedford and “Smiler” Hales
1 would put together. They have much
in common. Both have had stirring
careers, know the ways of miners, have
knocked about the world, and are pic-
turesque, hard-hitting writers. It is 35
years since Hales left Australia to
become a war correspondent in South
Africa, where he was wounded and taken
prisoner at Rensburg. He also covered
the Russo-Japanese war. He had a lot
of trouble getting there, for the British
Minister at Tokio refused to endorse his
papers on the ground that “in his writ-
ings on the South African War he had
slandered the British Army.” Adelaide-
born, “Smiler” was a carpenter until he
won a prize for some literary society
jingle. That sent him into journalism
equipped with little education, a vivid
imagination and an amazing capacity for
getting into (and out of) every sort of
trouble. He and Randolph were rival
reporters on Broken Hill papers, and it is
said that the pair of them were thrown
out of more mines—if you can throw
anyone out of a mine—than any other
mining reporters anywhere. Hales stood
for Parliament, but, unlike Randolph,
was never elected. Hales stood against
A. E. Morgans in Westralia, and thun-
dered against his rival, who (Premier for
a day) laid on coals of fire by helping
“Smiler” to go abroad. “Smiler” at
another stage was a publican at Cool-
gardie. He did much of the “John Bull”
work attributed to Bottomley.
Randolph Bedford —“Randolph the
Reckless” in his younger days—distin-
guished himself at the age of six by set-
ting a large dog on a mob of goats.
Three goats were killed and Randolph
was punished. Ever since Randolph has
hated goats. For evidence, read some of
his Quart Pot Creek stories. Eight years
after the goat-killing episode Randolph
got his first job, droving sheep ; then he
had a brief spell in a solicitor’s office ;
became a draper’s assistant and a beef
clerk at an abattoirs; went rabbiting
between the Murrumbidgee and the
Darling ; and, among other jobs, wrote
violent articles for various newspapers.
At 18 he played an old man in a very
fifth-rate dramatic company, and finally
found his way to Broken Hill, where he
became a mining reporter. Since then,
besides getting into Parliament, practis-
ing journalism and writing several plays
and books —his Explorations in Civilisa-
tion is one of Australia’s funniest —he
has tried mining in Australia, New
Guinea and even in Italy.
Jack Abbott should be placed near
“Smiler” Hales, since Jack was also
present at the Boer War—as trooper with
the First Australian Horse and later as
second-lieutenant in the R.F.A. His first'
contribution to The Bulletin was a
verse entitled “Lord, Think of the
Lambs!” printed in the old “Bards of
the Backblocks” column. Son of a
former Speaker of the N. S. Wales Legis-
lative Assembly, King’s School pupil,
jackeroo, soldier and author, Abbott has
been favorably known to Bulletin
readers for nearly 40 years.
Ted Brady and Bill Lawson had better
be near each other since both have
earned fame as nautical rhymesters. Ted,
who went to the same school as Roderic
Quinn, shipped to America and back as
a'lad. For a time he was a wharf clerk
in Sydney, and made friends with many
a rolling mariner. He also went river-
roving down the Murray for the old
“Lone Hand” in a clinker-built, centre-
board skiff with a ly-h.p. engine. So
genuine is his sea verse that no less a
person than John Masefield was once
moved to say that Ted was “the only
poet who has seen the sailor in the dingy
intimacy of his fo’c’s’le and sung him in
verse which is more clarion than dog-
gerel.” Like many others among the
veterans, Ted spent a good part of his
early life in the bush, experience that
helped to fit him for the editorship of
“The Australian Worker.” The same
knowledge, plus his caravaning experi-
ences—Sydney to North Queensland
among them-—and continent-wide jaunts,
resulted in excellent travel books. The
last lineal descendant of Hugh Brady,
first Protestant Bishop of Meath, he
should be the right man to say grace for
this dinner.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
[Brady is hereby granted a week in
which to think up some appropriate
words, after which Mr. Fitz Henry will
bring forward the remaining guests.]
Towards the
Great Novel
Writers o f
worth-while
novels fall into
three categories.
In the first are
those equally sen-
sitive to the life about them and gifted
(and trained) to translate that life so
that style and form blend with material
to make a really great book. This is
rarely achieved. The majority of novelists
—even those whose work may survive—
fall into one of the two remaining
classes: those whose sheer technical
ability overtops the story they have to
tell; and those to whom what has to be
told is of sufficient importance to out-
weigh the manner of the telling.
Flaubert’s Madame Bovary could well
stand as an example of the first class,
while The Good Soldier of Ford Madox
Ford and Dreiser's American Tragedy
are good illustrations of categories two
and three respectively.
Applying this grading to Australian
literature, it is difficult to claim for any
of our writers a place among those who
have produced books outstanding in both
matter and manner. Representatives of
both secondary categories are there:
among contemporary novelists, good
illustrations in Vance Palmer, more
artist than novelist, and Brian Penton,
whose Landtakers, powerful piece of
fiction that it is, yet shows signs of hav-
ing been written by a hand that was not
quite equal in craftsmanship to the mas-
sive nature of the work.
If seems probable that Australian
novelists will continue for some time in
one of these two classes, with a majority
in the “matter” rather than “manner”
section. Style, in any art, is the pro-
duct of a high form of civilisation. It
demands the appreciation of a relatively
small class: the amateur, using that word
in its best sense. Such an audience
exists in Australia, but it is so negligible
that a publisher would be courting ruin
by putting out novels (or any literary
fWorks) in which the major appeal was
to this cultivated few. This situation
must remain until there is built up a
leisured class, from whose ranks the ama-
teur has usually come in the past, or
until popular taste is educated to the
point at' which delicacies of style and
form are capable of producing a pleased
Recognition in “average readers.”
There is, however, a growing public
for sincere work, capably written, which
reflects life as it is known to Australians
—evident in the ready sale of such
novels as Tihuron, which paints a recog-
nisable picture and combines this quality
with good characterisation and- story. As
this public grows, so will the number of
those authors who will serve it. An
author must live, and while the audi-
ence remains interested in what he has
to say rather than the way in which it
is said (provided, naturally, that he
knows at least the mechanics of his
craft), the line that Australian novels will
take over the next few years seems to
be indicated clearly enough.
If any doubt should remain in regard
to this conclusion, a glance at America
should kill it. American literary history
reveals very few novelists who have been
distinguished by their artistry in style or
form. America, too, is a young coun-
try, suffering from a young country’s
artistic disabilities. She has produced a
national school of novelists (incidentally,
a powerful one), but it is, as will be the
case in Australia, a school as yet pre-
occupied with the forceful recording of
impressions rather than the “artistic”
method of doing it.
The objection might be raised that no
reason has been advanced which would
debar Australian novelists from now
taking the path leading to the production
of works in the first category of novel.
All the evidence goes to indicate, how-
ever, that where that rare kind is
achieved it is the result not only of in-
nate ability but of a tradition which
demands such perfect balance in a book
before it can be called great. Austra-
lians, very naturally, will be satisfied to
call great quite a number of Australian
novels before there will come into being
a tradition which will demand harmony
of material, style and form. At the
moment, with one or two exceptions,
we have not even a critical body to
demand it.
Of course, we may be lucky enough to
fluke such a book, but if we do it will
come not because of any conscious de-
mand for the best, not as the result of a
national literary tradition, but by luck.
STEWART HOWARD.
Malice in
Reviewing
In A Year That
the Locust
(R.P. 15/1/ ’36)
A. S. M. Hutchin-
son gives an in-
stance qf deli-
berately malicious reviewing. It did
not happen to a book of his, but to
one by a woman for whose writing and
self he has great respect. The victim
ascribed the review, which glinted with
hatred, to a hurt the reviewer imagined
he had received at her hands years
before.
There is nothing I find harder to be-
lieve than this yarn. Everything, I know,
is against such disbelief. I have heard
tlje yarn, openly or through innuendo,
levelled against dozens of reviewers: I
have read it scores of times, often told
by critics and by various other writers
that I had no reason for suspecting. I
am sure that every practising writer be-
lieves in it as firmly as in any deity.
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
ANTHONY
SAVE WHEN YOU
HORDERNS’
BUY THAT NEW GUN!
Substantially Reduced
Have you all the cartridges you will require for the coming
Anniversary holiday? If not, take advantage of these
genuine Sale reductions to effect worthwhile money-savings
on the highest quality goods,
16G. Black-powder Cartridges. No. 8 shot only. Price, per 100,
I 7/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, per 100 10/-
20G. Black-powder Cartridges. No. 6 and No. 8 shot only. Price,
per 100, 17/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, per 100 .. . . 10/-
DUCK
SEASON
opens
15th
February.
Be ready
with
reliable
GUNS
and
CART
RIDGES.
£B/10/- 12 Gauge Belgian
Hammerless Gun
Anson action, with treble Greener
crossbolt, side clips, line black steel
barrels,, left choke-bored, matter rib,
neat engraving, selected walnut stock,
push-down rod forerend, English
hardening; proved for smokeless
powder. Price 8/10/-
Sale Price £7/5/*
m
.
I m
£l3/13/- Wm. Cashmore 12G. D.8.8.L.
Top-lever Gun
Wm. Cashmore 12G. D.8.8.L. Top-
lever Gun. Crossbolt action, steel
barrels, left choke, engine-turned rib,
well-figured walnut stock, horn heel-
plate, Deeley and Edge fore-end,
well finished. Specially proved for
nitro powders.
Price £l3/13/-
Sale Price £l2/5/-
L
£24/10/- Wm. Cashmore 12G
Pigeon Gun
Crossbolt action, automatic safety
bolt, English fine steel barrels,
choke-bored, flat file-cut rib, figured
walnut stock, pistol grip, chambered
for 2|in. cartridges, good finish,
neatly engraved, specially proved tor
nitro powders. Weight about 71b.
Price £24/10/-
Sale Price £2l/10/-
D.8.8.L. Hammeriess
£2lio-
55/- 12 Gauge Single-barrelled
Gun
Harrington and Richardson, 12G. Single-bar-
relled Gun. Top lever, automatic ejector,
full choke. Weight about 61b. Barrels, 12G.,
30in. and 32in.; 16G., 30in.; 20G., 30in.;
4106, 28in. Price, each 55/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each, 50/-
t
cfcjSbp
£4-15-
£5/15/- .303 Sporting
Rifle
These .303-calibre Sporting Rifles are the long-service
Lee-Enfield rifles cut down and reconditioned. Splendid
value! Price, each £5/15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, .... each £4/15/-
226
25 1- “Sure Shot”
Bolt-action Rifle
“Sure Shot” Bolt-action Rifles, .22 calibre. 18in. barrel.
Made for short or long cartridges. Price, each .. 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 22/6
Also .22-calibre “Sportsman” Rolt-action Rifles, for
short or long cartridges. 24in. barrel. Price 35/-
Sale Price, each 31 /•
e Firearms—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs. Freight paid on all firearms 50/- or over.
QUALITY BIG GAME FISH GEAR AT REDUCED PRICES
SPLIT CANE RODS
Montague “Redwing” Light Tackle Class Split Cane Rod, as illus-
trated. Tip, sft'. 3in.; detachable butt, 18in. nickel-silver mounting;
double-agate guides and locking-reel seat. Weight of tip 9oz.
Price . : £B/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £7/12/6
"n —ir m
Special Treble-built Split Cane Rod
These Treble-built Split Cane Rods are hand-made, well seasoned,
and have hardened cane tips. sft. 6in. long, with 16in. detachable
butt and screw locking. Reel-fitting; for fish up to 10001 b.
Weight of tip 18oz. 240 z.
Prices £9/15/- £lO/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices £B/17/6 £9/12/6
“Fortuna 5 ’ Big Game
Seafish Reel
Reg. 123405. Size 7in.
Constructed of special light
metal. Line spool is of con-
tracted form to enable quick
line recovery. Handles remain
stationary when playing a fish.
Braking mechanism can in-
stantly be applied by turning the capstan wheel. Weight 4j-lb.;
line capacity 600 yards. Price -15/10/-
Sale Price
ţ
CUTTY HUNK
imm
Donegal “Cutty Hunk”
Line ■ Reliable Linen Lines.
Per 100 yards—
Sizes 36 39
Prices 25/6 307-
Sale Prices 22/6 27/6
These lines are available in lengths
up to 600 yards.
Landem Drag Handle Reel
Pat. No. 5195-31. Made of Aluminium
Alloy. Simple in operation, pressure can be
instantly varied by turning the star on front.
Handle "automatically stops when fish is hooked.
Wearing parts of hardened steel; free s*pooi.
Prices .W£6/10/- £B/10/- fV
Sale Prices .. £5/17/6 £7/13/6 £9/10/-
• Fishing Tackle—Lower Ground Floor,
Pitt Street. Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.


i ->os%
rm B»m o/ tm rtm
ALL-ABOUT
MARY and ELIZABETH DI’RACK
THE HAPPIEST BOOK OF THE YEAR
ALL-ABOUT
The Story of a Black Community on Argyle Station, Kimberley, Nor*-west West Australia.
By MARY and ELIZABETH DURACK.
The public demand for copies of “All-About” rapidly
exhausted the first and second editions of this
splendid book, and the THIRD EDITION is now
available.
“All-About” has been acclaimed by press and public
as one of the best books published for some time.
Here, indeed, is the happy book, full of good cheer,
excellent fun and a splendid tale of station life in
the vast nor’-west of Western Australia. The writers
are daughters of that splendid pioneer of the Kim-
berleys, Mr. M. P. Durack, and in collaboration they
have written a tale of station life, of intensely inter-
esting natives who, the writers profoundly realise, are
gifted with the joy of laughter, human kindliness
and true philosophy.
YOU WILL ENJOY
THIS BOOK!
PRICE 3'6 (Postage 4d.)
All Newsagents or Booksellers throughout Australasia, or from
the Publishers, The Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
and Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
And the curious dirt and evil of men’s
minds make the possibility of malicious
reviewing feasible enough.
Yet against all this I doubt the yarn
every time I hear it. I know, of course,
why I doubt it: simply because it is
inconceivable to me personally that any-
one should be able to take up a book
and deliberately try to damage its author
by maliciously disparaging his work.
Not being able to conceive of this does
not seem to me in any sense a virtue.
It is probably sentimental. Yet I cannot
imagine a doctor putting a knife
into anyone out of malice. In short,
I believe there is such a thing as profes-
sional ethics so strong that it alone, and
not any virtue of the individual, simply
will not allow to be done those things
which many people seem to think com-
monly are done.
But I should not like to be in a posi-
tion of having to convince anybody
of the idea that a critic might write
in a white heat of disparagement of a
book without any ulterior motive what-
ever. Especially I should not like that
position in a country that can ban
and keep banned any such work as
Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World.
That such a book could be banned and
remain banned proves that there is no
national consciousness of literature in
the country. It is not that such a ban-
ning would be prevented or revoked in
a country conscious of literature: it
simply would not be possible: it could
never have occurred.
That this is a shocking state of things
is true enough ; but anyone who dis-
credits it will, if he is a critic, quite likely
live to regret. What may save him—
what saves any who practise this craft
with any honesty in Australia—is
that, though there is no literary con-
sciousness alive in any national sense,
there is a very live and growing literary
consciousness among Australian writers.
They give the critic who attacks them
credit for the same detachment that
they themselves practise in their writing ;
and it is, as ever, they and not the critics,
in this and all other respects, who are
forming and will make our literature. In
my opinion—which, of course, must be
heavily discounted in this matter-
nothing but good comes to literature of
even savage and angry criticism. Of
course, I am thinking of literature
generally, and not of the individual’s
feelings. When criticism stops and
alters the blow it might as well kiss itself
good night.
What is wrong with criticism in Aus-
tralia is that—mostly quite uncon-
sciously, I should think —it does stop
and alter the blow. Ido not mean it is
all fulsome praise: there is disparage-
ment enough ; but it is mostly a negative
disparagement. It lacks the strength of
men who hold strongly to literary prin-
ciples and rise in wrath when these are
assaulted. By it the writer’s feelings can
at the worst be only slightly ruffled, and
to those who believe that it is a service
to writers to praise them always such
negative disparagement is the most a
critic should allow himself or be allowed.
But in an insidious way this acts most
drastically against the writer. It estab-
lishes a negative state of mind from
which not only wrathful disparagement
but enthusiastic praise also cannot
emerge. The Australian writer com-
plains—and quite rightly—that the good
in Australian writing is not awarded the
inspiring critical applause that it merits.
But this cannot be had both ways. If
the disparaging in literary criticism is
ruled out, the applause of the good can-
not be expected to flow either. Both
things—disparagement and praise—come
from the one source: a belief in literary
principles and ideals.
I doubt very much whether that could
be generally accepted. Very few people
seem able to accept that any real good
is done by disparaging any book, except,
of course, upon grounds that have
nothing whatever to do with the purely
literary. The slating of a book in the
name of current ideas of morality is well
understood, and a critic could convince
many, perhaps, that he held such strong
political views as to justify any attack
on these grounds. But the disparage-
ment of a book in the name of abstract
literary ideals—no ; I should say that
that would not be swallowed at all in
Australia.
Nor will it ever be here until the
literary consciousness is sufficiently alive
to ensure that the first feeling to arise
at the mention of malicious criticism is
one of doubt. I believe that the second
of these things will automatically follow
the first. And the propagation of the
first—of literary consciousness, that is—
seems to me a reasonable justification for
the existence of those literary societies
which, on various other grounds, I have
sometimes attacked. I take back none
of my opinion that they are purely social
institutions of no practical value to the
writer —particularly the young writer. I
think that there is a great deal of pre-
tence and humbug about them. But I
think, too, that because they are social
institutions with literature as their in-
spiration they may in time do a most
valuable service to Australia in helping
to make literary consciousness alive.
C. M.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Mars His Idiot H. M. Tomlinson
War Over Ethiopia W. J. Makin.
Cage Me a Peacock Noel Langley.
IN Mars His Idiot (Heinemann ; Angus
and Robertson; Bs. 6d.) H. M.
Tomlinson has written a trenchant, logi-
cal, unanswerable attack upon war and
all its works. The book —a savage
statement by one who knew war well
and has thought about it—expresses
feelings about war which many hold, and
which are in danger just now from a
tremendous volume of pro-war propa-
ganda. For this reason it is urgently
important. Tomlinson interrupted writ-
ing a novel and other work to pen it,
and anyone will be a gainer who also
knocks off something to read it. Apart
from what it says, it is a bracing piece
of virile writing.
A good general journalistic account of
the land about which the war cables wax
hysterical is War Over Ethiopia, by W. J.
Makin (Jarrolds; 21s. 6d.). Makin, who
knows his Abyssinia from first-hand ex-
perience, tersely describes it: “A cruel,
pitiless country. And a cruel, pitiless
people inhabiting it.” His bag of the
apparently innumerable sorts of Abys-
sinians includes the hitherto-unheard-of
Gouragis (“boastful fighting warriors”).
He does not appear to have encountered
the famous Fannos or the creeping
Gofas, but he knows our good friends
the Gallas and Danakils. Owing to the
strict censorship, he says, “the few scraps
of information tossed to hungry news-
papermen have been magnified out of all
proportion to the truth. The Emperor
of Abyssinia reads every message that is
sept out from the wireless station at
Addis Ababa. He is able to censor or
destroy it.” Also he makes the stagger-
ing statement—part of his instructive
descriptions of slaying in the Negus’s
country —that, owing to Abyssinian
slavers raiding adjoining British terri-
tory, “British patrols and aeroplanes are
fighting their own Abyssinian war that
has now been going on for several
years.” His conclusion is that, no mat-
ter which way the fighting goes, Europe
will lose heavily by Mussolini’s adven-
ture. “If the Italian victory is com-
plete, then such faith as the Africans
may have in white justice will be dis-
pelled.” On the other hand, if “the
African is assured that he is strong
enough to challenge the might of the
white man, then the black upheaval in
Africa must surely follow. Whatever the
result of this war over Africa, the sequel
will be shattering to white prestige.” In
addition to such opinion, which Mr.
Makin throws about freely, the book
makes breezy, informative, descriptive
travel-reading.
Cage Me a Peacock, by Noel Langley
(Barker; 7s. 6d.), is fiction that nobody
who takes life solemnly— and especially
censors’ maiden aunts—should read on
any account. They will be reduced to a
state of shocked apoplexy not fewer than
138 times on the way through. Others
may feel that here and there the author
loses his exquisite lightness of touch and
is coarse merely for effect. Most will
probably enjoy all the scandalous foolery
without reserve, especially if they are
given to roaring outright over a writer
whose natural manner of putting things
can be indicated by: “After a while the
nightingale damned all ladies with fervor
and packed up for the night, mutter-
ing under his breath.” Mr. Langley sets
his delicious fantasy in Ancient Rome,
overcoming the scruple of historical
accuracy with the large comment that
“Ovid says they weren’t; but Ovid
doesn t know.” It is a wild disguise,
however. His people, especially the little
wanton who floats lightly and thought- .
lessly through life on her wantonness, are
of no time in particular.
*
Tuesday Afternoon, and Other Stories,
L. A. G. Strong (Gollancz; 7s. 6d.). A
few get above being merely fair maga-
zine stories, but that’s all most of them
are. One of the best is “The White
Cottage,” fine character presentation.
Sudsee : Travels in the South Seas, by
Hugo Adolf Bernatzik (Constable;
10s. 6d. net). “Popular” personal
account of the author’s visits to the
Solomon Islands, New Guinea and Bali,
the scientific results of which will appear
in a different kind of book. He stayed
longest in the Solomons, but observed
well at the other places also, and has
something fresh to say about them all.
On a Huge Hill, by J. D. Beresford
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Discusses faith-
healing, or something very much like it,
from the point of view of a middle-
aged London solicitor who is so filled
with compassion and love for his son
that in a species of trance he is able to
unite himself with the boy’s spirit and
cure him of meningitis. For the rest he
decides to devote his life to the service
of others, preferably in the capacity of
a healer. Rather tedious ; those inter-
ested in the subject may enjoy it.
“Our Alma Mater,” the magazine of
St. Ignatius’s College, Riverview, Sydney,
has attained large proportions to cele-
brate its fiftieth year of issue. The im-
pressive grey building that dominates the
Lane Cove River was bought for £4OOO
in 1880 for the purposes of a Catholic
boarding-school. The magazine was estab-
lished in 1886. Its first editor was Chris
Brennan (he was dux of the school that
year), later to become a noted poet and
Greek scholar. They’re strong on Greek
at Riverview, which has given Adelaide
Uni. its present prof, in the subject, J.
Fitzherbert. The jubilee issue of the
magazine runs to 182 pages, rich in per-
sonalia —a fine souvenir of a very fine
educational institution.
The Mind of a Dog, by Dr. F. J. J.
Buytendijk, translated by Lilian A. Clare
(Allen and Unwin ; Bs. 6d. net). The
Professor of Physiology in the University
of Groningen describes laboratory and
other investigations into the nature of
the dog mind in this manner:
How the social relations between dogs
develop is shown us both in their fighting
and their play. Two dogs meet in the
street. They approach each other cau-
tiously, their muscles taut, and their hairs
sometimes bristling. Then they stand still,
sniffing each other.
The Battle of Basinghall Street, by E.
Phillips Oppenheim (Hodder and Stough-
ton ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). Tells of the
working-out of a grudge against the
directors of a highly-successful textile
manufacturing company. Oppenheim
fans, and others, will enjoy it; the char-
acterisation is good, the story moves
quickly, most of the people are titled and
the wines and liqueurs are faultless.
The Impossible Irish, by Tom Penha-
ligon (Routledge; 65.), is “flung in
the face of a fighting race who
never won a battle, a race of poli-
ticians who cannot govern themselves,
a race of writers without a great
one of native strain, an island race who
have yet to man a fleet and to learn to
build ships.” The writer —a British trade-
unionist, it would seem —goes on like
that for 215 pages, and has done his
bitter job rather cleverly ; but in chapter
after chapter he weakens his case by
overstatement. He is most interesting
when he deals with the Free State book
censorship (“Smiler” Hales’s McGlusky
the Mormon is one of the 350 banned
volumes); least impressive when he
makes political assertions which exhibit
a fine scorn for reference-books. For
example:
The cost of government is astonishingly
high, 34 millions a year, with an export
trade of little over half that sum.
The Statesman’s Year-Book reckons ex-
ports for 1933 (“excluding bullion and
specie and goods transhipped under
bond”) at £19,069,219 sterling, Govern-
ment expenditure for 1933-34 (“includ-
ing a number of items of a capital or
productive character, together with certain
of abnormal or non-recurrent character”)
at £31,550,000. Before the depression
and the land-annuities wrangle the same
authority reckoned exports at £44,567,464
(1930) and Government expenditure at
£31,104,648 (1930-31). Mr. Penhaligon
acknowledges that he has never read
Burke. A significant omission ; Burke
was the great Irishman and great Eng-
lish political thinker and writer who con-
fessed his ignorance of the art of draw-
ing up an indictment against a whole
nation.


WHO HAS AUSTRALIA’S
CHAMPION BABY?
£250
IN CASH PRIZES
AUSTRIA L I A N
WOMANS
MIRROR
OFFERS £250 TO
AUSTRALIAN MOTHERS
First Prize £lO, Second £5,
Third £2/10/-
for the winning babies in each State and New Zealand.
£4O additional for the Champion.
£lO to photographer (amateur or professional) taking the
photo, of the Champion.
And other prizes.
State prizes to be awarded by independent judges in eacn
State. Champion to be decided by votes of “Woman w
Mirror” readers.
Jmnm
mi
mm
HI
S»
■
n i
He
mi
y-y-.':.
a a
m-yw^mM
ra
“THE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN’S MIRROR
Fame and Fortune Best-Baby Competition
ENTRY FORM
I wish to enter in the "Mirror" Fame and Fortune Be.t-Baby Competition and declare
ihe following particulars to be correct:
Name of Child Sex
Date of Child’s Birth: Day Month Year
Weight (naked) lb ° z - Hei S ht incheS<
How fed from birth: Naturally; Artificially (strike out one). Other details if you wish.
Name of entrant
Relation to child
State, Dominion or Colony
Address
(B.)
FULL DETAILS ARE PUBLISHED IN
JANUARY 28 ISSUE OF
OSe
« AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
on sale Friday at all Newsagents.
PRICE 3d.
Save and fill in the entry form at the left and
post it, with your Baby’s photograph and a
Coupon from the “Woman’s Mirror,” to
Fame and Fortune Competition,
BOX 252188, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The Competition is open to
male and female Babies under
4 years of age.
NO ENTRY FEE
Entries Close February 29, 1936


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m m
■
m *
'
m n
: ■ i
■■a
■
■shiii
i s
mm
u
m
*rC
m
******
to
mm
wW
»Vv'
m.
Bn
W
SM%
m*
m
m
m
im
vm
%
aaMMMgsßWifc-.
*• -.
flKtmfi
%
mm
-■" . '
P j,
i
■
k* 5
m i •
: :
' Eg
«i@|i»iiiiiyi
l .S*
v £ '4*
C • :v, A 2
. I
t
i
m
: ■ -
■
, a*
- : I *t o-. 4 ' :
. t t : fc*:S
4
: :.
-JSaBsS
S 1
11
■HR
>J
I
mm m
: I
■
: *
mm
X
Hi
■I
l I
Aerial view of another portion of Seppelt’s Storage and Cellars, which hold over 4\ million gallons.
vme


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2919.
January 22, 1936.
ALL IS OFF.
“The British nation has been warned that the Defence estimates rendered necessary by what Mr. Baldwin calls ‘the pursuit of disarmament’ will give the nation a shock.
“Miss Disarmament to see you, sir.”
“Didn’t I say I’d have nothing more to do with that baggage? Tell her she can’t come in—I’m dressing!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Building % 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months , 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s •
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
PREPARED TO FIGHT.
Firing the fervor of the faithful in Australia, an
official from Geneva is reported to have “made a
deep impression on members of the League of
Nations Union, whom he addressed.” Well he might
have done; for the first phrase of the first sentence
of his first utterance as reported was: “We must be
prepared to fight.”
We must. We know it. It is inseparable from
the great delusion of war to make peace by which,
as members of the League, we stand committed. We
must be prepared to see another generation of Aus-
tralian youth rot in the mud of some other European
Passchendaele. The pill might be served with a
sweeter chocolate coating, but that is the bitter fact
at the core of it. That for which we must be “pre-
pared to fight” was given out by the visiting gentle-
man from Geneva as “the principles we value.” Had
he stopped at that he would have been guilty of no
more than the stock platitude of armchair patriots and
over-age warhorses. As reported, he proceeded to
explain “these principles we value” as “collective
security,” and “went on to deal with the factors which
have produced the great unanimity throughout the
world in favor of the League system.”
Public speakers have a recognised license in
hyperbole, and one of them is not to be too heavily
censured when he thus abuses it. It would be just as
impolite to assume that he expected anyone to believe
that sort of nonsense talk as it would be to credit that
he believed it himself. But when one of his hearers
is seen to grasp at such obvious carrots and gallop
happily away, when a mighty member of Our Glorious
Press explodes with reiterative leader nonsense about
“world public opinion remarkably unanimous in its
vigorous support of the collective peace system and
the League,” then it is only a reasonable deduction
that there was one ass present, at least.
For what' is the meaning of this shibboleth “col-
lective security,” and what does its strength amount
to? And to what extent is “world public opinion
remarkably unanimous in vigorous support” of either
it or the League?
The answers to those questions form the staple
of a story of degeneracy that is one of the most pitiful
tragedies in the history of mankind. It is a story of
one of the noblest ideals of mortal conception brought
down to be a bedraggled figure of fun ; a glorious
hope and splendid aspiration reduced to the semblance
of a miserable dummy stuffed with wind and straw, all
the more tragic if it remains an object of idolatry to
cheering simpletons and gaping fools.
The League of Nations was envisioned as a con-
federacy of all nations banded together in a grand
alliance to ensure the peace of the world. That was
to be the “collective security.” There can be no
question of the value of that ideal, as an ideal. The
delusion in “world public opinion remarkably unani-
mous” and suchlike parrot-chatter is that the aspiration
was realised. Unhappily for the world, the very
contrary is true.
America, having given birth to the ideal, named
it for a brat and deserted it at birth. Next Japan
named it for a nuisance, and also deserted. With
these out, it remained —even without further defec-
tions —no more a league of the nations of the world
than a school of sharks is a league of the fish. Its
new existence was as a league of the nations of
Europe. Even this narrowed position was now denied
it. Germany —repudiating it, like Japan, as a brake
on ambition —left without apology. Only by the wild-
est sort of legal fiction can Italy be named as a
member. Melodrama never pictured a more degener-
ate slide from affluence to the gutter.
Degeneracy complete, it stands to-day—this ideal
of a grand alliance to ensure the peace of the world —
reduced to no more than an ill-disguised resurrection
of the Triple Entente —Great Britain, France, Russia —
with sundry satellite and parasite sprat and tiddler
nations gathered curiously about. On a map of the
world big enough to cover a wall, the entire sphere
of its possible effective activity can be covered by a
closed fist.
Even in this narrow area its impotence is a
laughing-stock. Even here it has failed to prevent
war, it has failed to stop war, it has failed to make
peace. Attempting all these things, it has succeeded
only in demonstrating itsdlf to be the clumsiest diplo-
matic instrument ever contrived. At this moment the
height of its achievement is trying to starve the civil
population of one of the poorest countries in that small
section of the world where all its force and power,
and such influence as it retains, are concentrated.
In the antediluvian geography understood by its
adepts in hyperbole that pocket of the earth’s surface
—its immemorial cockpit—is what is meant when they
speak of “the world.” That is their “world,” and
Geneva is its capital. That is “the world” whose public
opinion is “remarkably unanimous in its vigorous
support of the collective peace system and the League.”
Shut the mind to America, Japan, Germany, Italy,
and behold how “the nations rally around the League
and work for collective security.” Shut the mind to
sense, that is, and feed with the dwindling rest upon
the ass-fodder thus offered.
That is the whole meaning of “collective
security,” what its strength amounts to, and the “world
public opinion” that supports it. It is for that dangle
of carrots that we must be “prepared to fight.”
BACK TO THE “ABC,” O.S.!
A blast of disapproval from the Queensland
Premier’s Department reached 252 George-street,
Sydney, last week. It bore the signature of the Official
Secretary to the Premier, who has taken another secre-
tary with him on another trip abroad:
In The Bulletin of December 18, 1935, under the head-
ing of “Undeveloped Queensland,” you make the following
statement:
“Brisbane has no factories to speak of, and its
contribution to Queensland wealth-production is relatively
small”
As this is such a serious misstatement of fact, it is
necessary for you to make a correction in an early issue.
The facts are that Brisbane for the year 1933-34 had
968 factories, employing 21,011 people, paying salaries and
wages of £3,277,563, with an output of £15,007,218. Rela-
tively to the factory output of Queensland, Brisbane production
was £15,007,218 as to £42,442,785.
It must be admitted that such factory production is far
from relatively small, and that the contribution to Queensland
wealth-production of £15,000,000 is in itself considerable.
I deeply regret that your newspaper has seen fit to make
a statement which is totally unfounded in fact. Such state-
ments are not only unfair to Queensland but misleading in
the extreme to your readers.
“It is necessary for you to make a correction in an
early issue.” When The Bulletin read that it felt
like pitching the Official Secretary’s letter into the
wastepaper-basket.
On second thoughts, it decided that the thing
would be more usefully preserved as an example of
the spirit animating the ever-expanding bureaucracy
which has become so addicted to telling Australians
that they may do this but mustn’t do that.
There will be no “correction,” and The Bulletin
repeats what it said in the unquoted part of the
offending paragraph—that Brisbane is getting “a great
and increasing share of the State expenditure.” That
statement the Official Secretary to the Premier does
not challenge. As for Brisbane factory statistics, they
are drearily-familiar reading in this office, but it was
reserved for the Official Secretary to the Premier to
invest them with unconscious humor.
“For statistical purposes,” a factory is “an indus-
trial establishment in which four or more hands are
employed or in which power other than hand or
horse is used’’ (“Statistics of Queensland, 1933-34,”
Part VIII). Thus bakeries are factories, and so are
bike-shops, paint-shops, breweries, iceworks, gas-
works and all manner of repair shops. Milliners
employing four or more hands are reckoned as
manufacturers, along with dressmakers, shirtmakers,
undertakers, cobblers, printers, newspaper proprietors
and tailors.
Of Brisbane “manufacturers” mentioned in the
“ABC of Queensland Statistics, 1935,” tailors led in
number of hands employed for the year to June 30,
1933—1855 out of 18,831. Printers were second with
1311. Next came meatworks employing 987 persons •
then “boots, shoes and repairs” (973), newspaper
proprietors (821), shirtmakers (817), bakers (805) and
dressmakers and milliners (682). Well down on the
list were ironfounders (355) and manufacturers of
lime and cement (237); soap- and candle-makers (109)
were second-last, and fellmongers (92) last. In short,
industries independent of protection made the best
showing.
So much for the “968 factories employing 21,011
people.” “The contribution to Queensland wealth-
production of £15,000,000” would be “considerable,”
if true, but it is ludicrously exaggerated.
Page 75H of “Statistics of Queensland, 1933-34,”
gives the following particulars of Queensland factory
operations for the year under notice:
Value of fuel, light, power, etc £971,680
Value of containers, tools, repairs .. .. 1,312,125
Value of materials used 26,446,472
Value of output .. .. .. .. 42,442,785
Value added in process of manufacture .. 13,712,508
Value added, less wages, salaries and trading 6,291,222
Brisbane’s proportion of the “value of materials
used, £26,446,472,” was, of course, infinitesimal. Its
“contribution to Queensland wealth-production” was
not £15,000,000, but somewhere about three-tenths of
£13,712,000; say, £4,500,000. And that is reckoning
in coffins, slop suits, cobblers’ repairs and the like as
“wealth,” The “ABC of Statistics” values Queens-
land production for 1933-34 at £52,551,000, of which
£37,358,000 was “primary” and £15,193,000 “manufac-
turing.” Obviously the Official Secretary to the
Premier has never mastered his “ABC.”
“Unfair to Queensland” The Bulletin has never
been, but, while the splendid State has made great
strides forward in other fields, its manufacturing
history is a record of arrested progress. With ample
supplies of native fuels, almost every known mineral
and a range of agricultural produce wider than any
other State can claim ; with a population approach-
ing the million, as intelligent and adaptable as those
of States in which protected secondary industries are
prospering, and a geographical situation decidedly
more favorable to an export trade in manufactures—
with all these advantages it had fewer factory-hands
in 1933-34 (no later figures are available) than it had
before the war. There were 42,363 at the end of 1913
o Commonwealth Year-Book, No. 12, page 476), when
the population was 660,000; there were 42,201 at
June 30, 1934, when the population had reached
950,000. And our “ABC” (read it, Mr. Official Secre-
tary!) mentions that “the average number of hands
employed over the whole year 1933-34 Was 40,083,”
adding that “since 1927-28 bread-making establish-
ments not using machinery but employing four or
more hands have been included.”
This stagnation can be attributed only to the
conditions brought about by Queensland politicians.
They produce secretaries rather than factories. There
are nearly as many Government employees as factory
employees. When counted by the Commonwealth
Statistician at the end of June, 1933, the State alone
had 26,074, exclusive of Golden Casket employees and
the like; and the Bureau of Industry’s “Bulletin”
reports 40,750 persons in Government and municipal
employment at the end of 1935. And, judging
by the performances of the Transport Strangula-
tion Board, and the charter issued to the Licensing
Board and the tone of the letter from the Official
Secretary to the Premier, Government employees are
now running Queensland.
TREES AND WEALTH.
An Asiatic visitor remarked pensively that if Australia
is ever added to the dismal list of once-fertile
countries that became desolate, it will not be because
too few people were put on the land, but because
too many trees and too much grass were taken off it.
Many an Asiatic region is a dreary illustration of
his argument. The level plateaus of. Asia Minor,
Mesopotamia and Persia were once well grassed and
timbered. To-day, for thousands of square miles,
they are wastes —denuded of grass and with scarcely
a finger-thick twig to show. Where armies once
marched, living on the countryside, a few bedraggled
women squabble over camel dung with which to
make their fires.
Australians, unfortunately, are very far from
these object-lessons, and they are already paying for
their prodigality in the use of Nature’s fuel and feed.
There are parts of the Northern Territory, once well
pastured, which have become abandoned sandhills
through overstocking. “Erosion” is now a familiar
word to thousands who had never heard it a decade
ago—in rich east-coast districts, where scrubs have
been wantonly cleared to the last tree to make
room for another cow or two; in the Victorian Mallee,
Where every root is marketable; in S.A.’s northern
province; in the Riverina even: but, even yet, Aus-
tralians do not understand erosion. They have never
seen the Euphrates cutting its turgid way between
tumbling banks of unsupported silt, 30ft. high—ever
moving in a dead, parched landscape.
Queensland’s Land Board takes pride in the fact
that last year the Crown cut nearly twice as much
pine as in any previous record year —plus 20,000,000
super, feet of hardwood logs and a lot more:
Total sales of cabinet woods in 1934-35 em-
braced 15,000,000 super, feet as against under
4,000,000 feet the year before....ln N.Q. sales of
Crown logs included 6,627,000 super, feet of kauri
pine; 1,088,000 super, feet of walnut; 3,995,000
super, feet of maple, and 7,360,000 of silkyoak.
The increase in the case of silkyoak was 350 p.c.
Timber revenue soared from £166,878 to £307,776.
These figures do not show the timber cut by private
enterprise for sale or sacrificed in unnecessary clear-
ing and ringbarking. Expenditure on reafforestation
was £83,307 ; a whole 1973 acres was added to
Government plantations, now 13,481 acres altogether.
The position is relatively as bad in N. S. Wales,
whose Government is abandoning the pine-forestry
experiments, and is likely to cause the closing of the
Commonwealth forestry school at Canberra by with-
drawing its support. Mr. Lane Poole, the head of the
school, seems indignant; and well he might be. He
contrasts Australian methods with South African, to
Australia’s disadvantage. In the Union, he points out,
even small country towns lay down plantations as
future sources of firewood, fencing-poles and building
timber. In Australia the tree is still regarded as “the
natural enemy of the farmer.” Mr. Lane Poole might
have referred to South Africa’s introduction of the
Australian wattle —in 1933 its bark exports (£525,800
sterling) were worth more than exports of coal
(£377,200), or of maize (£333,000) and maize-
meal (£102,000), and more than exports of wines
(£164,100), meats (£295,900) and tobacco (£22,500) put
together. He elected not to rub it in.
Australia, with 2,974,581 square miles of terri-
tory, has about 20,000,000 acres of forests. Germany,
with 181,699 square miles, has 32,000,000 acres of
forests —nearly an acre of trees to every two people.
Forests find work for nearly a million Germans, and
another 3,000,000 are employed in working up the
raw products, which are estimated at an annual value
of about £30,000,000 on present exchange.
British India (1,318,346 square miles) has 261,000
square miles of forests —“reserved,” “protected” and
“unclassed.” Employment given may be judged by the
fact that the Forestry Department has a staff of 13,000.
There are 400 scientific officers, a research college and
training colleges; and strict precautions are taken
against denudation, especially on hilly country, where
trees affect rainfall and prevent floods and erosion.
In the case of commercial timbers there is a full
replacement programme, and firewood and rough
timber lands are carefully nursed in the same way.
Australia might take a leaf out of the book ot
its Anglo-Indian brethren, soon to be blessed with a
Federal system of government. There is not only
wealth in Australian trees, but there may be salvation
in tree-planting for large sections of the country.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
King George.
A rare compliment was paid by the “Matin” to King
George when it implored him to restrain his Ministers
from carrying their zeal for League “sanctions” to the
point of risking a struggle in the Mediterranean which
must develop into another world war.
We hope you will meet these inescapably logical
reflections with the noble spirit of justice and clear-
sightedness which you have always consecrated to your
great nation and to the peoples of your far-flung Empire.
The appeal might be said to betray an odd
ignorance of the working of the British Constitution,
but it exhibits a sure knowledge of the good sense
and goodwill of the King.
Unhappily, when it was published his Majesty
was sickening for another serious illness. A chill
contracted at Sandringham in “exceptionally severe
weather” developed into bronchial catarrh. That, in
itself, the doctors reported, was “not severe,” but
“signs of cardiac weakness” had “appeared,” and
were regarded with “some disquiet.” Then came three
bulletins in which the word “anxiety” was used ; then
another, in which “no change” was reported ; then
another to the effect that the King had “maintained
his strength, in spite of a restless night.”
So for the second time in seven years the King—
now an old man, and never a strong man —entered
the Valley of the Shadow of Death. When this was
written countless millions were praying (and not his
people only) that he might again be spared to a world
which has learned to value his serene mind and his
quiet example of service in a distracted age,
♦ :
Happy Result of an Alliance.
Glorious news in every way was that flashed over
the world out of the frozen South at the week-end,
telling of the finding of Ellsworth and his pilot
Hollock-Kenyon, last heard of on November 23, when
they set out on their geographical exploration flight of
an intended 3000 miles over Antarctica,
It is good to see men of their quality—as it would
have been stirring to see Kingsford Smith or Ulm —
recovered after having been lost, without hope
apparently, or with little hope, of their ever being
seen again. The world has not, never has had and'
never will have, so many men of the kind that their
loss could ever be lightly regarded.
Ellsworth is one of the most freakish of the
breed, though there is something freakish about them
all. As well as being 55, by which age most people
gain a lofty contempt for. living dangerously, he is a
rich man, with a villa in Italy, a castle in Switzer-
land and money to burn. He has burnt it almost all
his life in risking his neck in the wide interests of
geographical exploration.
Hollock-Kenyon is of the larger breed of brave
men to whom also belong the Australian flying
officers Douglas and Murdoch, who helped in the
finding in circumstances that make a new bright
chapter in the saga of adventure in the Far South.
This, with the rest of Australia’s part in the
event, was singularly as such things should be. When
Ulm was lost, American airmen and naval men at
considerable expense —for which no bill was even
thought of—and certain hazard of life continued the
Search for him after the most hopeful had given up
hope. Australia’s part in the finding of Ellsworth and
his mate does not requite the debt, not even in the
best possible way of matching it with another: it
simply acknowledges appreciation by a practical
expression of gratitude.
Another fine thing has been the promptness of
the rescue. The preparations had none of that casual
lethargy which the Australian national character is
frequently alleged to have as a heritage from a too-
easy climate. Acting in conjunction with Britain
and Maoriland—another heightening feature of the
event —our part was expeditiously arranged. The
Discovery 11, with the ’planes, headed south on
Christmas Eve: 25 days later, and its mission was
accomplished—one of the swiftest, as it has been
one of the most heartening, achievements in the
world’s romance of rescue.
♦
Australia Must Be Defended.
Japan has withdrawn from the London Naval Con-
ference. It asked for “parity in principle” with
Britain and the U.S.A. instead of the 5-5-3 ratio,
and intimated that no compromise was possible.
It is unfortunate, but it cannot be helped; and
the situation will not be improved by railing.
Every country must be the judge of its own neces-
sities. The Japanese have to defend and protect the
trade of an island Empire with a population of
100,000,000, next door to which are the powder-
magazines of China and Russia. Even while they
were preparing to retire from the conference,
Tukashevsky, the Assistant Commissar for War, was
reporting, as an “answer to Japan’s intentions,” that
Russia was “rapidly building submarines and surface
warships, bringing the army reserve to its pre-war
strength of 10,000,000, and increasing the standing
army from 900,000 to 1,300,000.” Is it any wonder
that the Japanese feel that it is no time for them to be
accepting a limitation of their main arm?
But the Japanese decision, along with the vast
programmes of other countries, means that the British
Empire must look to its defences, and, in Mr.
Baldwin’s expression, “pursue disarmament” no longer.
As earnest of its intention to desist from that dangerous
pursuit, the British Government announced, during
a lull in the conference proceedings, that it was placing
in commission again H.M.S. Repulse, done over again
at a cost of £1,750,000 —which will probably make her
the most formidable battle-cruiser in the world. Her
sister-ship the Renown is undergoing a similar recon-
struction, and it came out during the election campaign
that the Navy had been formidably rearmed against
aerial attack and in other respects. Also, the nation
has been warned that the Defence Estimates will give
it a shock.
What is the Australian Government doing? It
now seems clear that even the painfully modest and
obsolescent aerial-defence plan which Mr. Parkhill
has fathered will be delayed because Britain is so
busy building aircraft for the R.A.F. While Britain
finds its annual expenditure of £3 per head of popu-
lation on defence inadequate, the Australian Govern-
ment, with a continent to defend, niggles at spending
more than £1 per head. Yet one State Government
is sanctioning an expenditure of £15,000,000 on
sewerage schemes for suburbs, besides “sixty schemes
for the country”—one suburban project alone is to cost
£6,000,000. Even if it means vetoing some of these
parochial plans, Australia must be put into a proper
state of defence.
+
A Northern Territory Plan.
Robert Maclntyre in reply:
It seems to me, as a Barkly Tableland lessee, that in your
sub-leader (B. 8/1 / ’36) you have missed the main points of
the scheme put forward by the Barkly Tableland Co-operative
Development Co. The first point you raise is that of security.
The lessees offer to pool all their assets, including their leases
—most of them have about 30 years to run—and improve-
ments.
This is better security than most local-government bodies
give for loans. About three-fourths of the proposed loan
would be spent on building a main road, making the
Macarthur River navigable for lighters at high and low tides,
and providing a port, meatworks and a small town, with
the necessary conveniences, on Vanderlin Island. All these
are works that are usually done by Governments or by
Governmental authority. In effect, the lessees are offering to
do the things themselves* because their offer includes interest
on and repayment of the loan.
You write of the class of country. As one would
expect, it varies, seeing that 110,000 square miles are embraced
in the scheme, but, according to competent authorities, a
great deal of it is good to very good cattle country. In fact,
this has been proved by the cattle bred and fattened on
it. Cattle bred on Brunette Downs, roaded 2000 miles to
the Hunter and there refattened, topped the Melbourne
market. In the Mitchell-grass downs —about 40,000 square
miles —there is no sour “jump-up.”
You write of “unreliable” water supply. Is it any more
so than in Western Queensland? You suggest, perhaps
indirectly, the number of cattle at 57,000 head: there are
approximately 275,000 head. This number will be substantially
increased as improvements in the leases are made.
Darwin and Wyndham meatworks are mentioned. They
suffer from natural difficulties —Darwin has no good country
adjacent, and Wyndham has no transport.
You admit that the northern part of the Territory has
“cattle-breeding possibilities,” but you add that, if they could
be “developed by the mere pouring-in of money, interests
like those of the Whitest who hold Brunette Downs, would
surely have capitalised the Territory long ago.” James White,
of Brunette, is the chairman of the development co., and, of
course, has complete faith in the proposals.
The scheme you suggest—something “on the model of
Amalgamated Wireless,” to be tried on two or three properties—
would be up against the big obstacle which is preventing the
existing lessees from making any progress. This obstacle is
lack of outlet for the fat cattle as fat cattle. Until this outlet
is provided there is no chance of any substantial progress;
the Barkly will probably slip back and back, as it has been
slipping for years. The development co. would provide
this outlet, which would enable the lessees to market many
thousands of fat cattle as “baby beef” every year. Meat
from the Vanderlin works could be landed in London in
approximately 34 days, as against 44 days from Brisbane —•
with chilled beef a tremendous advantage.
The Bulletin did not say that there were only
57,000 head of cattle on the Tableland—the reference
was to the cattle population of 10,000 square miles.
It is surprising to learn that the scheme covers 110,000
square miles, seeing that the leased and grazing-license
territory above the 20th parallel totals only 148,000
square miles. In any case few local bodies could
borrow £1,000,000 on the security of country which,
on Mr. Maclntyre’s showing, carries about cattle
to the square mile. Nor are small towns and meat-
works usually built by Governments.
Baby-beef production, as understood overseas,
calls for farm-feeding and abundance of water. These
the area could not provide without the expenditure
of a great deal more money than would be left after
the construction of roads, meatworks, a port and a
town.
The Bulletin has the utmost sympathy for N.T.
pastoralists struggling with difficulties ; but this plan
must be judged on other grounds. If leases and
improvements are adequate security, why go to the
Government? There are plenty of banks about.
«
Wanted: An Australian Accept.
From an old pressman:
People pining for the limelight of culture in this country
have a standby which is available to the inhabitants of no
other part of the world. They can always write to a daily
newspaper deploring the fact that Australians are developing
an accent.
Every other country is proud of having its own language,
or, at least, its own dialect. But here it is considered an
evidence of tone to be ashamed of the manner of speech by
which- the Australian proclaims his nationality. A people
might as well be ashamed of their national flag.
The Australian needs an accent —one which will be an
imitation of neither the Oxford bleat nor the Cockney squeak.
He needs a peculiar twang by which from the first word
spoken he may be recognised as an Australian. What is
more pleasing in a foreign land than to hear the sound of
your own home tongue? Not an imported imitation, but
the real thing, by which the speaker tells you at once that
he is a neighbor of yours, living under the same patch of
sky, with whom you can foregather, if only to swap old-time
fish stories. The snobbery which brands everything Australian
as shoddy dies hard, and the periodical outburst of horror
through the columns of our press at the way Australians
“mispronounce” English is but one of the marks of its
dishonorable old age.
Australia is going to have its own accent, all the same—
like its own laws and its own literature. It is beginning to
show on the national tongue already. Not only that. Aus-
tralia will have more than one accent. It is big enough for
several. Between Melbourne and Sydney the difference is
now becoming plain. Example: A Melbourne man calls his
city “Melbun”; in Sydney the pronunciation is “Melbern.”
More power to them both!
The Communist Canker.
There is a tendency in Australia to pooh-pooh the
Communist and his influence, but, though followers of
Stalin are few in number, their activities have cost
the country millions. They have provided the pro-
gramme and the militant leadership in almost every
major strike since the war. They reorganised union
groups on a Russian trade-union basis ; they forced
the “Red rules” on the N.S.W. Labor party, and at
the 1931 conference of that party they secured the
adoption of plans which it would have needed a civil
war to carry out.
All their activities over the post-war period have
synchronised with a step forward in organisation.
The disturbances at the beginning of the depression
ran neck and neck with the foundation of the Militant
Minority Movement, which was built up following
the failure of the N. S. Wales Labor Council to fall
into line with a long and impudent letter of instruc-
tion from Losovsky, the general secretary of the Red
International, of which the M.M.M. is the local expres-
sion. Militant Minority men have captured key
positions in the Miners’ Federation and the Seamen’s
Union, and are powerful in other transport organisa-
tions consisting of Government employees.
The seamen’s strike was a setting for the eleventh
congress of the Australian Communist party, which
announced that “a great and stirring battle of Labor
and Capital looms,” a battle in which “the living
standards of the workers and their democratic liberties
are at stake.”
The bait held out is an “immediate programme”
which includes the six-hour day, the five-day week, a
minimum wage of £5 a week, and “systematic
resistance” to all forms of increasing machine produc-
tion—“protests, demonstrations, irritation tactics and
struggle.” But the ultimate programme is kept in the
background. It has been outlined in a pamphlet:
Smash the Arbitration Court!
Defend the Soviet Union!
Down with the “White Australia” Deception!
Demand Immediate Freedom for New Guinea!
Defend the Revolution in China and India!
Destroy the Fascist Bloodhounds!
Down with Capitalism!
For a Workers’ and Farmers’ Government!
It is made clear that the M.M.M. is no mere local
concern:
We are part of the most powerful body of organised
workers in the world —the Red International of Labor-
unions. Our strategy and tactics are based upon, not
merely Australian experiences alone, but upon the
experience of the staunchest fighters from the Labor
movement of every country in the world. We tell the
labor-unions that the only way out of the capitalist
crisis is the revolutionary way.
But this information is too strong a medicine for the
ordinary worker. So the rank and file are dealt with
by fair promises based on Lenin’s dictum:
We must be ready for any and every sacrifice, and
even, if necessary, to practise trickery, to employ cun-
ning and to resort to illegal methods, to sometimes even
overlook or conceal the truth —all for the sake of pene-
trating into the trades-unions, to stay there, and by
every and all means carry on the work of Communism.
Communism is not an easy menace to deal with.
It is a suave and cunning creed, intangible to the law
up to the point where it assumes power. The history
of the Commonwealth’s attempts to scotch it is one
of ignominious failure. The remedy is in the
hands of the Australian worker himself. If, in cases
like that of the seamen’s strike, he took the trouble
to understand the nature of the cause he was ordered
to help, he would not follow the Militant Minority
Movement or its semi-Asiatic masters in Moscow.
»
Melbourne’s Seaside Buck-passers.
A man from Bondi considers them:
There is no surf along the beaches near Melbourne, no
undertow to drag bathers seaward, but the floor of the
shallows is full of holes which are apt to swallow up the
non-swimmer without anybody being the wiser. At Elwood,
two small boys were washed into a hole by a wave. One of
them was seen struggling, and was rescued, but it was not
until he had recovered consciousness in the shed that it was
known that he had had a companion. The companion was
drowned.
This loss of life, following closely on other sad examples,
led to questions being put to public bodies supposed to be
charged with responsibility. St. Kilda Municipal Council
replied: “The bed of the sea does not concern us—that is
a matter for the Ports and Harbors Department.” The
Ports and Harbors Department said: “The safety of bathers
according to the Local Government Act, is a responsibility
of the council concerned.” The St. Kilda Foreshores Com-
mittee said: “It is not our job. Our boundaries end at
Dickens-street.” Reminiscent this of the policeman who
declined to interfere in preventing a murder because it was
not taking place on his beat. '
Risk of drowning is incidental to the existence of large
expanses of water, and human ingenuity can go no further
than to provide precautionary measures. The very best of
all precautions is to ensure that everybody should be able
to swim, at least sufficiently to save his own life should he
stumble into a hole. But it is impossible to restrict bathing
to swimmers; one of the greatest values of a beach is as
a paddling area for mere toddlers, and toddlers as well as
older people are liable to be drowned in holes.
On surf beaches, the bather who gets into difficulties
creates an alarm at once by reason of his being seen floating
out to sea. In still water, he just slips into a hole
unnoticed even by fellow-bathers a few feet away. Then the
surf beaches are generally confined areas —the popular resorts
around Sydney are—but Melbourne’s beaches extend, almost
without a break, from the mouth of the Yarra to the Heads
60 miles away. On hot days and holidays bathers are scat-
tered over this whole stretch, and it is manifestly impossible
to police 60 miles with life-savers, professional or amateur.
Beyond the institution of warning flags at known danger-
spots, and provision of light boats, which can be speedily
rowed to the spots where bathers are known to be in diffi-
culties, it would seem that little can be done to minimise
risk to human life, beyond intensifying the propaganda of
warning against possible dangers.
As for the responsibility of facing the cost and trouble
of this, it would seem that the local council —which gains
such an immense part of its revenue from the attractions
of sea-bathing—should be the one to assume it. If it can
make out a good case for relief, some other body should
either take on the job or have the job thrust upon it by a
higher power. The importance of a few elderly gentlemen
occupying public positions is not really so great as the import-
ance of human life—especially youthful life.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“General Prac.”: He was
lying in bed, still slightly sozzled,
when I saw him on New Year’s
morning. Items: one black eye
(a beaut.) ; one pink nose, de-
viating slightly westward and
complete with nob; one leg
tinted with every hue from red
to jet-black. “How did it all
happen, old man?” I asked.
“Happened ’smornin’, ’bout 2
p.m.,” quoth the patient. “Tail-
lights burning brightly, unnerstan’?
Sunn’ly, stashn’ry car dashed right into
us. No tail-light. Nobody in car.
Drunken cows.” Here he waved a fore-
finger portentiously. “Somethin’ goin’
be done about it,” he said menacingly.
“About what?” I inquired. “Stric—
stricter regulash’n of speed-hogs unner in-
fluensh olcohal,” said the injured one.
* * * *
“Crook”: The reference to the young
criminal said to be known to the police
as “The Boy Gunman of Redfern” (B.
15/1/’36) moves me to ask if the police
ever tag such idiotic and crime-novel
labels on their patients. I have done a
fair lot of police reporting in my time,
and never heard a suspect referred to
by any fancy monniker of the sort —if
he carried a soubriquet, it was always
something like “Stinker” or “Mucker.”
The fool notion was started by the Syd-
ney yellow press a few years ago, when
the Wallace boom was on. Harmless
leadlight practitioners and bagsnatchers
were christened “The Red Shadow,” “The
Grey Wolf” or something equally
fatuous. Inquiry from police friends in-
variably produced the reply that the fear-
some labels were newspaper stunts.
“Hand-in-Hand”: Some anonymous
ruffian or cheap humorist signing him-
self “Chief jof the Blue Hand Gang” has
been annoying Queensland squatters with
letters threatening them with fires and
other calamities unless they buy im-
munity from himself and his lawless band.
“Blue Hand,” I suppose, is a variant
of “Black Hand” ; which reminds me.
Ten or twelve years ago, in the old Bul-
letin office, a professional window-
cleaner used to come round periodically
to enable more daylight to penetrate the
panes. I was on the third floor then,
having recently descended from the
fourth, where window-cleaning seemed to
have become a lost art or, at all events,
an abandoned practice. “Why don’t you
give those offices up above a turn?”
I asked the window-cleaner; “I don’t
remember ever seeing you there, and they
need it worse than these.” “It ain’t my
job, mister,” he explained ; “our clean-
ing contract’s with the Bulletin com-
pany, and there’s a different lot of blokes
up there”—he groped in his memory a
moment —“the ‘Black Hand,’ I think
they calls ’em.” The remark puzzled me
sorely, and it wasn’t till weeks later
that I hit on the obvious explanation.
The “Lone Hand” literary staff had con-
ducted its activities for years on the
fourth floor.
* * * *
“Old Roundsman”: City-road (South
Melbourne) post office, held up by two
bandits last week, was the scene of a
less successful attempt at. robbery a
generation back. Two of Melbourne’s
most eminent burglars broke in after
midnight and started on the safe. They
“Go on, auntie, 'ave a go.
I'll 'old y umbrella."
were half-way through the job when
there was a knock on the door. “Come
out, boys, and go quietly,” said the voice
of a policeman. “We’ve got the place
surrounded.” Realising that they were
trapped, the intruders obeyed. They had
omitted to ascertain that the p.o. was
fitted with a burglar alarm communicat-
ing directly with the local police station.
* * * *
“Monty”: A Caulfield (Vic.) citizen
who aspired to caveman tactics will
probably adopt diplomacy next time.
Returning home, he had a dispute with
his landlady, and signified his disap-
proval by smashing the crockery and
hitting her. But the lady didn’t happen
to be of the clinging-vine variety. She
was young and husky, and swung in
wicked lefts and rights like a female
Ambrose Palmer. When the neighbors
had counted ten over the ex-caveman and
restored him under the yard tap, they
brought a policeman in. The assailant
appeared in court next day, a mass of
sticking-plaster and bruises, plus two
black eyes, to be fined £1 for his vain
endeavor to assert male supremacy.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The right of a testator to
be insistent upon the religion his heirs
were to follow and the religion of those
they married used to be unquestioned.
The N.S.W. Equity Court has now de-
cided that such directions in a will are
contrary to public policy and void. One
John Hogg, who died in 1886, left money
on trust to his son, to be divided on the
latter’s death among his children pro-
vided that they were brought up as
Protestants. Actually, they were edu-
cated as Catholics, but they will get the
money: the Court' said the direction was
an undue interference with a father’s
religious conscience. The judgment logi-
cally follows another that a testator has
no right to dictate to his heirs about the
religion of the people they marry. Prob-
ably Jewish wills will be most affected by
the new ruling. Many a strict Jew has
been in the habit of including a clause
cutting off from their inheritance his
heirs who marry Gentiles or fail to
educate their progeny as good sons and
daughters of the synagogue.
* * * *
“Moggs”: The wild rush and fierce
determination of Melbourne souvenir-
hunters to secure a bit of Brunswick’s last
cable-tram before it went out of action
—but for the police one of the conduc-
tor’s bootlaces might have been seized
and detached as a valuable relic —tends
to make some people despair of human
sanity. But to me the inconsistency of
the tribe is the most amazing part of
it. When the old Harbor punt was
driven out of business in Sydney, which
happened soon after the Harbor Bridge
was opened, I never noticed anyone try-
ing to cut slabs out of it, though the
associations that perished with it must
have gone back far beyond the tram era.
It just faded out, like Cobb and Co.’s
coaches and cabbage-tree hats. I wonder
if, before Sydney loses its last hansom —
it has very few left —souvenir-hunters
will be waiting to grab one of the but-
tons off the final Jehu’s overcoat or a
hair from the tail of the superannuated
horse. It would be like them.
* * * *
“Tydides”: In a Melbourne police
court the other day a son was charged
with having assaulted his father. The
magistrate called him “a cowardly
ruffian” ; two months. Somehow the
headlines suggest a young man, under
the influence of drink and ill-temper,
raising his hand against a middle-
aged one. Yet, seeing that the assail-
ant was 58 and the assailed one
80, it may very well have been a
case of a grandfather assaulting a great-
grandfather. That would surely be some-
thing unique, even in police-court
records.
* * * *
“Tom, Willie”: The principal adver-
tisement that Sydney receives in Mel-
bourne is provided by the humble oyster.
“Sydney rock oysters” are boldly
placarded at most of the food dispensaries.
As a rule they are Is. 6d. a dozen
in the restaurants, but the pubs dish
them up at sixpence a dozen over the
counter. Indeed, meals are practically
served, with or without drinks, at all
pubs. Under this system a three-course
feed may be had for tenpence. Say,
soup, a penny; oysters, sixpence;
roast beef or lamb with vegetables, three-
pence, with bread thrown in. Upstairs
in the dining-room the charge, of
course, is much higher. Sydney could
learn a lesson from Melbourne in the
matter of feeding its inhabitants.
* * * *
“Colonel B”: George Houston Reid
used to tell what I’ve always considered
to be Australia’s best snoring story (B.
8/1/’36). Coming across on the Trans,
express, he shared a sleeper with a genial
Westralian acquaintance. When the
bunks were made up, the W.A. man
beamed upon George over a whisky and
polly, and suggested that, in view of his
snoring ability, it would be a kindness if
G.H.R. went along to the smoker and let
his stable-mate get fairly to sleep. The
obliging statesman did so. “And,” he
went on in his querulous, high-pitched
tones, “when I got back I found that
monster of ingratitude flat on his back,
putting up the most damnable sonata
of hoots, whistles, grunts, snorts, whoops
and gurgles that ever came out of the
Bottomless Pit. I didn’t get a wink of
sleep all night. And, when I went to
bed first next night, he had the infernal
impudence to say that I snored worse
than he could have believed of any man.”
“Jungor”: The most stentorian snorers
I have ever encountered or heard of have
been huge stout persons. When the
night express from Kalgoorlie to Perth
first began to run in the late ’nineties,
two fairly regular travellers were (1) an
enormous publican, (2) an immense soli-
citor. Either in himself could have kept
his end up against a cross-cut saw or a
threshing-machine; one fateful night
both boarded the same train. For
months that night was recalled by
fellow-passengers as the last word in
nocturnal horror. Between stations the
involuntary duet of the amazing pair
drowned the roar of the engine,
and at every stopping-place bewildered
and irritated men would dash out to ask
if “these infernal brakes were going on
grinding all night.” It wasn’t until the
grey dawn, when it was too late to try
any palliatives, that the real causes of
the disturbance were located. Each was
supremely unconscious of having helped
to spoil the whole train’s rest, and the
breakfast-bell found them equally sharp-
set. I wonder if Falstaff snored.
* * * *
“Ferment”: Beer isn’t the only
beverage that has been given a
miss by the bards (B. 15/1/’36).
Whisky, gin, rum, schnapps, stout,
brandy and porter come under the
ban ; also cocoa, chocolate, lemon-
ade and raspberry vinegar. Tea
got a look in from Cowper with
“the cup that cheers but not in-
ebriates,” and there are frequent
references to milk, but only in con-
junction with honey or human
kindness. Webster makes it a toss-
up whether the word beer was
coined by the Anglo-Saxons, the
Friesians, the Icelanders, the Old
High Germans, the Old Low Ger-
mans, the Dutch, the French, the
. Italians, the Irish, the Gaels or the
Armenians. The Egyptians knew
beer in the time of the Pharaohs,
and probably it was brewed by
Cro-Magnons centuries before the
dawn of history. Certainly it ante-
dates ale, which according to an old
definition “differs from beer in having
a smaller proportion of hops and hence
being sweeter and lighter of color.” Beer
was brewed before hops as an ingredi-
ent were thought of. I trust that bardic
justice will now be done to a long-
neglected epic subject.
* * * *
“Sailor”: This must be about the limit
in queer accidents aboard ship. Three
or four years ago a ship was loading
bulk wheat at Odessa, Black Sea, when
the chief officer overbalanced and fell
into one of the holds. In a few moments
he was buried underneath eight feet of
loose grain. After some frantic digging
he was found suffocated ; artificial re-
spiration failed to restore life. This same
officer had been shipwrecked on two
occasions, the last being a torpedo job
in the Mediterranean, where he floated
around for four hours before being
rescued. Yet he met his end by “drown-
ing” in dry grain in a ship’s hold!
* * *
“Live Opp.”: That front elevation of
St. Kilda (Vic.) Town Hall has admittedly
been designed on splendid lines; but
“Red Bluffer” can’t bluff me about its
being the most beautiful of its kind in
Melbourne. When the Virginia creeper is
leafless and the elm-trees in Brighton-
road take their winter nap, one sees the
building in all its stark ugliness from all
angles. It is the gardens, with their
flowering trees and shrubs, which give
the illusion of beauty.
* * * *
“Flunky”: That statement that King
Ned introduced the fashion of creasing
trouser legs down the front (B. 15/l/’36)
is open to question. In his book Good-
bye to Fifth-avenue Vanderbilt tells of
the then Prince of Wales visiting his
father and mother on their yacht at
Cowes. Though a small boy at the time,
young Vanderbilt gives a meticulous
description of Edward and specially men-
tions that, while all other folk had their
pants creased in front, Ned had them
pressed with the seams at the side.
A CASE FOR DISCRETION.
“The National Council of Women (Sydney) lias
suggested to the Retail Traders’ Association that
‘more discretion should be employed by window-
dressers when clothing lay figures—particularly with
women’s underclothing.’ ”
These waxen nymphs, these tinted Aphrodites
Unquestionably brighten up the scene,
Whether they’re clad in Paris gowns or nighties,
“Spooners” or furs—or anything between.
A trifle less of simper in their faces
Would be desirable, one must admit;
Still, in the female figure’s sinuous graces,
They’re generally It.
These robot mannequins, these Galateas
That pose in trade’s luxurious abodes,
How tellingly they feature new ideas,
How boldly advertise attractive modes!
Yet, could they speak, they’d make it a con-
dition,
Be sure, as modest maids, of their displays
To be throughout each process of transition
Screened from the vulgar gaze.
The subtle mysteries of toilet, surely,
Aye, even in the case of waxen girls,
Should be conducted safely and securely
Beyond the range of Peeping Tom-like
churls.
They faded out with good Queen Vic, the
G.rundys,
But still a pointed protest it extorts,
This bare-faced switch from tailor-mades to
undies,
Or chemisettes to shorts.
Those roystering mythological Bacchantes
That live for us through Norman Lindsay’s
pen
Could shed, whene’er they chose, their skirts
for scanties
Or less —it didn’t matter tuppence then.
But these show-window frails who
smile so sweetly,
If their fate, too, is to be treated
so,
At least it might be managed more
discreetly,
Not coram publico.
You chaps who strip and deck with
glowing pretties,
. Designed to captivate artistic
minds,
These radiant beings, it seems a
thousand pities,
While on the job, you can’t pull
down the blinds.
Or, failing that, why let the garish
light fall
On where for prying eyes you
make a mark?
A better plan would be to wait till
nightfall
And doll ’em in the dark.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Clio”: Seeking the services of a char-
woman in one of Sydney’s unfashionable
suburbs, I found nobody in possession at
the house except a bright urchin of eight
or thereabouts. He took careful note of
my requirements. “That’ll be 0.K.,
lady,” he assured me. “Mum had to go
to court to-day. Her and dad’s getting
reversed.”
❖ sH
“Sixenate”: The man who stole a slab
of grey granite from a Newtown (Sydney)
monumental mason’s yard added to the
list of queer thievings. A neighbor of
mine once had a lawn stolen from him.
Having taken possession of a new house,
he set out to beautify the surroundings,
and, after spending a laborious day lay-
ing down the expensive sods that had
been delivered to him, slept soundly. He
woke to find his whole work vanished.
Sods of grass are saleable. One imagines
it would be hard to find a purchaser for
a slab of granite.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Even in the
rough days of 40 years ago the Abys-
sinian was never a patch on the ladies
of Afghanistan in the atrocity line.
Although mutilated, a large proportion
of the Adowa prisoners were allowed to,
survive. Many a British soldier in the
Afghan scraps of last century received
long and horrible treatment as a prisoner
from his captor’s womankind, but none
ever survived it. Kipling’s soldier’s
advice to those wounded and left behind
was to “roll to your rifle and blow out
your brains” once the ladies were seen
arriving. But the British soldier never
showed any nasty feelings in the matter
or any desire to retaliate in kind. To
him it was a trade risk, in which the in-
explicable feminine temperament had
got mixed up.
* * * *
“Verri”: The ancient jibe at Maori-
land’s showery climate, “Every Maori-
lander should be born with an umbrella
attached,” is likely to become more
regarded as a prophecy than as a humor-
ous item. Recent visitors to the
Dominion were astonished to observe
a growing habit in the man about town
of carrying an umbrella hitched to his
braces. The argument is that a gamp
so carried leaves both hands free, is
never liable to be put down and over-
looked, is quickly available if required
and is never stolen. And as no Maori-
lander ever goes out without his um-
brella the idea seems to have something
to recommend it.
* * * *
“Cutchery Sahib”: One of the queerest
criminal trials on record has ended in
Calcutta. Two Hindus, one a doctor,
desired the death of a wealthy relative
by which they would benefit. The medico
suggested plague bacilli, and his asso-
ciate, a laboratory worker, obtained a
supply. They began by smearing their
quarry’s spectacles with the culture ; the
idea was that in cleaning them he would
convey infection to his mouth. This and
other means having failed, a third man
was hired to inject the culture with a
hypodermic syringe in a crush at a rail-
way station. The prosecution proved to
the satisfaction of the Court that this
was done, though it seems almost in-
credible, and the story will he scoffed at
by anyone familiar with hypodermic
administration of drugs. Sentenced to
death, the two men on appeal succeeded
in having the sentence commuted to life
imprisonment in the Andamans. This
last alone shows how India has changed.
A few years ago any Hindu, unless of
the lowest caste, would have begged for
death rather than transport across the
Black Water. That meant to him the
everlasting degradation of the soul, while
“But dash it, darling, you cant turn me down now! I’ve ruined the
crease in my pants.”
the hangman’s rbpe at worst was just a
passing bodily inconvenience.
“Kwakprak”: One classic instance of
bacterial murder occurred in Brazil some
30 years ago, when a medical-research
worker removed a number of human in-
conveniences by fresh cultures of typhoid
bacilli administered in ice-cream. The
horror-merchant’s dream of bombarding
an enemy with missiles full of disease
germs is, so far, entirely impracticable.
But science is always progressing, and it
may be realised yet.
*
“S.T.S.”: A strange accident in Adel-
aide. A crane at work on top of a
Rundle-street store collapsed and cas-
caded down the front of the building ;
the hour was early, and the few passers-
by somehow escaped unhurt. The oddest
feature concerned the heavy bags of
cement which anchored the crane’s rear
leg. When the strain came they shot
up and out, on the principle of the old-
time Roman catapult, and burst through
a roof on the opposite side of the street.
* * * *
“Sikie”: The “S. M. Herald” corre-
spondent, quoted by “El V.” (B.
15/1/’36), who ascribed to London an
“inferiority complex” said it was this
that made London
tolerant. Presum-
ably he confuses
the simple with the
complex, as do so
many folk who use
psycho - analyst
jargon. There’s no-
thing complex
about a conscious-
ness of inferiority.
The complication
uomes in, according
to Freud’s disciples,
when the individual
is unconscious of
the consciousness,
but nevertheless en-
deavors to camou-
flage it with over-
bearing arrogance.
The most common
symptom of what
the Freudists mean
by “i n f e r i ority
complex” is found
in those individuals
who pour fierce
contempt on all
matters they don’t
understand. But
London, in the case
in point, is credited
with being sweetly
tolerant “to pic-
tures and plays it
does not even pre-
tend to understand
or admire” and to
“concerts which
would drive a dis-
criminating out-
sider mad with
homicidal mania.”
Psycho-analytically that’s a hall-mark of
the superiority complex. In the happy
days before they started operations we
had simpler and less confusing names
for the concepts the soul-dredgers claim
to have discovered.
“M.G.”: As a result of many protests,
Melbourne has decided to abolish the
colored lights which made the Shrine on
St. Kilda-road look at night-time like
something produced by Ernest Rolls.
The white floodlight will be retained, to-
gether with the dignity befitting the
memorial. Sydney is always regarded
as a city of more artistic feeling than
Melbourne ; yet the Archibald fountain
in Hyde Park is every night turned into
something flippant and comic opera-ish
by Its beauty of design being obliterated
by dolly dyes.
* * * *
“Kellick”: No need to go into the
Never-never to get lonely jobs. I’ll
nominate the lot of a laid-up-ship’s care-
taker as one of the most nerve-racking
tasks obtainable. The weird noises that
emanate from a decent-sized ship at
night—especially when you’re the only
person on board —would drive most men
half-crazy inside a week. Hoisting riding
lights at sunset, hauling them down at
daylight and warning off trespassers
comprise the standing part of the care-
taker’s duties.
* :? * *
“Kwakprak”: Seawater-snorting for
nasal catarrh (B. 25/12/ ’35) is scienti-
fically sound—it washes the inflamed sur-
faces with what is, in effect, a concen-
trated form of blood-plasma, thus attract-
ing the white corpuscles from the cir-
culating blood to deal with the germs
causing the trouble. Chemically, our
blood-plasma—the liquid part in which
the corpuscles are suspended—is almost
the same as seawater, but three times
“ Isn't it a pet! Tell me, are you this Mr. Zane Grey
We've been reading so much about ?”
weaker. Some physiologists consider
that it represents the composition of sea-
water at the period when our remote an-
cestors began to develop real gills. A
good swig of blue ocean before break-
fast is a recognised sea remedy for diges-
tive trouble born of the evening before.
With a half-teaspoon of salt added per
pint it is a great thing for fireman’s
cramp. In ship-surgeoning days, I always
kept a freshly-filled Winchester of it
labelled Aq. Mar., and it was highly
regarded by patients.
* * * *
“El V.”: The first part of the Vic-
torian Year-Book, which is printed sec-
tionally, is entitled: “Part I. —Introduc-
tion, Constitutional and Government.’ 1
Opening my copy at random at an
article I found the bold, black heading:
“Reptiles and Amphibians of Victoria.'’
Year-books go too far sometimes.
* * *• *
“Shepton”: Proverbially, all the world
loves a lover, but at' Warsaw, according
to a cable, an affianced pair of Ukrainian
terrorists, convicted of murder, were not
allowed even a parting embrace before
the man was hustled off to serve a life
sentence and the maid to do 15 years.
Yet couples have been permitted
to marry before now under the
very shadow of the gallows.
There was the case of the Ameri-
can Colt, told in the Bon Gaultier
Ballads, who was allowed to make
his mistress an honest woman on
the very morning fixed for his
execution; rather unfairly, she
smuggled in a razor to him, and
the bridegroom cut his throat.
And, 35 years ago, a young
Frenchman, sentenced to death
at Perth for a particularly wanton
murder, petitioned the authorities for
permission to marry his intended before
he was hanged. It was granted, and the
nuptial ceremony took place in Fre-
mantle gaol—presumably the only one
ever celebrated in such a grim setting.
* * *
“Fodgie”: Don Bradman seems to be
a draw for other things besides cricket
crowds (B. 1/1 / ’36). In the houses-to-
let section of a recent Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” were extolled the virtues of a
suburban dwelling “recently vacated by
Mr. Don Bradman.” I suspect it was
snapped up, for the notice appeared only
once.
s{: :]j v
“Morita”: Touching the alleged
bombing of an Abyssinian dressing-
station near Dolo by the Italians, I can't
help recalling that in the Great War we
generally relied more on luck than Red
Cross protection. Our battalion aid-posts
were stuck as close to the front line as
possible, jambed against bomb dumps,
machine-gunners or anyone else ; at Fac-
tory Corner we shared a doc.’s dugout
with snipers. There was no breach of
Red Cross laws, as such dugouts had
nothing to distinguish them except a pile
of stretchers outside. Dressing-stations
further back jostled for positions with
artillery, and they could not fairly show
distinctive signs or flags. The bigger
dressing-stations out of the line were
usually surrounded by ammunition
dumps, horse lines or motor-transport
columns. Frankly it was impossible for
them to get away on their own, so the
shelling and bombing of dressing-stations
was accepted as part of the game. Like-
wise we should have worn brassards and
red-crosses when stretcher-bearing, but
few did ; barrages and indirect fire of
machine-guns couldn’t respect those
signs, and after all our own chaps knew
our colors.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Sydney Health Officer
Purdy’s advocacy of shorts and sleeve-
less shirts for public schoolboys is a sane
suggestion. Not only for schoolboys,
either. During hot weather in the
United States officials are not seen swel-
tering in clothing designed for wintry
conditions. Policemen shed their tunics
and look picturesque figures in their blue
shirts; postmen go their rounds coatless,
and there is not a bank or Government
office where the man who deals with the
customers is not in his shirt sleeves. Why
the wearing of a coat should be regarded
as an indication of dignity is a mystery.
* * * *
“Old Roundsman”: Those policemen
at Collinsville (Q.) who caught two sus-
pects through sleeping on the premises
when safe-blowing was taking place
had better luck than had a Collingwood
(Vic.) coachbuilder some years ago when
many ‘burglaries were being committed
in the locality. “I’d like to see any
burglar try to rob me,” he boasted to his
acquaintances. “My safe is on the
ground floor of the open space I use.
There is a light burning over it all night.
I sleep in the gallery up above, with a
loaded rifle beside me. The slightest
sound wakes me.” The challenge hap-
pened to reach the ears of Buck Mont-
gomery —later hanged in Sydney for
shooting at police constables with intent
to murder. One morning the coach-
builder awoke and found his safe door
open and his trusty rifle missing from his
bedside. Montgomery was the most
expert burglar Australia has ever known.
AT WENTWORTH FALLS.
“Naturalists and others assembled at Wentworth
Falls (N.S.W.) on Friday last to celebrate the
100th anniversary of the day when Charles Darwin
made a mid-day halt there and refreshed himself
at the local inn.”
At Wentworth Falls a hundred years ago,
Ere good Queen Vic’s illustrious reign began,
That famous scientist to whom we owe
The real facts of “The Descent of Man”
Descended from a horse, fatigued and hot,
At thirst’s insistent urge and hunger’s calls
And battled with a steak and drained a pot
At Wentworth Falls.
At Wentworth Falls —although we’ve had
enough
Of these commemorations, I opine—
At least they introduced some novel stuff,
A lighter note in the centenary line.
Absorbedly they scanned the missing link.
Seeing the pub has vanished, roof and walls;
Still, it was here that Darwin had a drink
At Wentworth Falls.
At Wentworth Falls they hold it sacred ground,
Where memories of departed greatness dwell,
Indelible as those which cluster round
Wentworth's Vaucluse or " Cap’n Cook’s
Kurnell.
Here, in the days when this fair land was
young,
Great Darwin munched his dinner in the
stalls,
And bought a beer from some forgotten Bung
At Wentworth Falls.
At Wentworth Falls —Brother, should you or I
Grow famous ere we quit this earthly scene,
1 wonder what historic hostelry
They’ll utilise to keep our memories green.
Will men remember that we took a tid
In some bright tavern’s hospitable halls
A century ago —as Darwin did
At Wentworth Falls?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


3)
f:^4y
M
20/orl'e
10 for 9^
t eJ>*
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS,
11 I
#'
■
■
THE CORK
CIGARETTE OF THIS GENERATION
TIPPED
PLITICAL POINTS
Canada has been indulging in a
Premiers’ Conference on the Australian
model, and is now to have a Loan Coun-
cil. It will require an amendment of the
North America Act, and if Mackenzie
King is wise he will have it so worded
as to block provincial attempts to get
round the Loan Council by borrowing
through local bodies. That is what the
N.S.W. Stevens Government is trying to
do.
This is indeed a surprise:
Jack Lang will become a Barmitzvah
at the Gfeat Synagogue on Sabbath next.
—“Hebrew Standard.’’
Lang is Right, of course; but what
exactly is a Barmitzvah, Jack?
In spite of the seamen’s strike, pas-
senger traffic between Melbourne and
Launceston is showing a substantial in-
crease. December totals for three years
were 3124 in 1933, 3508 in 1934, 3642
in 1935. Ships beyond Seamen’s Union
control were, of course, pressed into ser-
vice—one of the many points on which
the Communist crowd miscalculated.
Trade-union unemployed figures have
been falling steeply. In the last quarter
of 1935 they stood at 13.7 p.c. for Aus-
tralia, against 18.8 p.c. in the correspond-
ing period of 1934. Queensland (7.7 p.c.),
Victoria (11.3 p.c.) and W.A. (11.8 p.c.)
are best off. If the decline continues at the
present rate Treasurers will soon be hard
put to it for excuses to maintain un-
employed-relief taxation.
Three former Westralian Cabinet
Ministers, Angwin, Moran and Maley,
are to manage the local debt-reduction
branch of the farm-relief business —for
finance, £1,300,000 is being found by the
Commonwealth oppressor. Since one
lot of politicians—the “Grow More
Wheat” enthusiasts —got the farmers
into a mess, it is deemed fitting that other
politicians should be appointed to get
them out of it. The faith of politicians
in politicians is exceeded only by their
faith in the magic to be wrought by
spending other people’s money.
So far from relieving Stevens and
Spooner of worries, the new County
Council threatens to add to them. In
spite of ex-Mayor McElhone’s protest
that the City Council, of which he has
been an alderman for 30-odd years, had
“traded in electrical equipment with dis-
astrous results,” the County Council is
going to trade in electrical equipment
unless the Government vetoes it. And
if a veto is attempted, the majority
County Councillors (the anti-socialist
Lloyd, M.L.A., O’Dea, Labor, and Gar-
diner, good-as-Labor) are certain to point
out that the Government is about to let
the Railway Department trade in ali-
mentary equipment, though hotels,
restaurants and teashops swarm in the
neighborhood, by opening a cafeteria at
Wynyard station.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Harti-
gan, in his annual report:
A commodious modern buffet and grill-
room is an essential part of the plan of
Wynyard. Work has begun, and is being
pushed ahead to early completion.
Wynyard is a city station handling subur-
ban traffic, and doing it dashed badly.
The “commodious modern buffet and
grill-room,” besides exposing the anti-
socialist Government to ridicule, will
make the traffic confusion worse con-
founded.
In many respects the American and
Australian Federal Constitutions are
appallingly alike, but in taxation matters
they seem to work out differently.
The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled
unanimously that $200,000,000 collected in
processing taxes under the Agricultural
Adjustment Act, and impounded by the
Court, must be returned to the taxpayers.
Taxes whose validity is questioned are
never impounded by Courts in Australia.
The questioning taxpayer has to take his
chance of getting the money if he wins.
If the department loses, it gets a “validat-
ing Act” passed by an accommodating
Parliament in no time.
Reading between the lines, the British
Government has gone cold on “sanc-
tions,” and even pacifist newspapers
which won’t be satisfied till they get a
war are not now keen on adding oil
to the list. The main reason is
that they have failed to get the Ameri-
cans on their side. It is even reported
that a clause of the Neutrality Bill giv-
ing the President power to prohibit ex-
ports above the normal to a belligerent
has been struck out. The report comes
from Italy (apparently the new rule is
that Australians are not to be vexed with
first-hand information which, in the
“Mr. Lyons complains that the Ogilvie Government, led by his
former lieutenant, will not co-operate with him, though the Forgan
Smith Government does.”
“Used to be a cobber of mine, and now look at him!
Doing the non-co-operation stunt, like Gandhi....Come
to think of it, we haven’t heard of Gandhi for a long
time....Wonder if he is Gandhi.”
opinion of the cable-service bosses, it is
not good for them to ; but no
denial has appeared.
Three opponents—two Nats, and a
Laborite—are out against MacCallum
Smith, M.L.A. for North Perth, who
carried the secesh petition to London
(travelling expenses, £1022, and salary as
usual). That’s what a patriot gets for
trying to save his ungrateful country
from the Federal octopus.
Many people doubt whether the Lyons
banking commission—it consists of a
South Aus. Judge, a professor of
economics, a retired Under-Treasurer, an
accountant, a grazier and a Labor-
socialist who lost his seat in 1931 —will
be able to agree “whether any, and if
so, what alterations are desirable in the
banking system.” But it might—didn’t
Columbus make an egg stand on end?
Acting-Premier Pease —the same who
described himself, with shrinking
modesty, as the best Minister of Lands
that Queensland ever had—announces
that trade-union unemployment is down
to 7-7 p.c. ; and ascribes it to the general
prosperity brought about by his Gov-
ernment’s rehabilitation policy. What
the taxpayer would like to know is why
larger sums than ever are being paid out
from the unemployed-relief fund.
Queensland’s Transport Board is strik-
ing snags. Having refused registration
to a pioneer firm carrying between
Landsborough station and Maleny, in
the Blackall Range —the concern had
eight trucks and £4OOO worth of other
plant—the Strangulation Board handed
the route over to a Brisbane carrier. The
newcomer’s first loads, including three
tons of salt for the Maleny butter fac-
tory, duly reached Maleny, but the con-
signees refused to take delivery or any
future delivery from the Brisbane man.
Now a puzzled board is wondering what
to do next.
The Canadian Prime Minister to his
people:
The proposal for an oil sanction was
made by a League committee —not, as
has been stated, by the Canadian Gov-
ernment. The Canadian Government will
consider the committee’s proposal on its
merits.
Presumably the Australian Government,
according to custom, will have the merits
of the proposal decided for Australia
by British politicians.
How simple, strong and universally
respected British foreign policy used to
be! The ruling idea was that Britain
should concentrate on the affairs of the
Empire and leave
Europeans to look
after their own
concerns, except
when some mili-
tary Power threat-
ened to become
master of the Low
Countries and
“point a pistol at
the heart of Eng-
-1 a n d.” How
fatuous has British
foreign policy been
during the last few
months! The
costly concentra-
tion in the Medi-
terranean, the
“conversations”
with France, Ber-
lin’s abrupt rejec-
tion of all over-
tures from Eng-
land, and the de-
parture of Japan
from the Naval
Conference these
are fruits of the
change.
In a gloomy
mood, Malcolm
MacDonald said to
the electors he is
courting in Ross and Cromarty: “It
depends on you whether I am to be Sec-
retary to the Dominions for more than a
few weeks.” All the same, his pros-
pects seem to be brightening. Diehard
Conservatives nominated Randolph
Churchill, and that engaging youth has
already suffered the experience of being
howled down. It certainly seems a queer
start to bring a young shaver from Eng-
land, twice rejected there, into a Scot-
tish constituency.
Now it’s the Sydney Water Board
which has embarrassed the Stevens Gov-
ernment —by deciding to spend £5,881,000
on the sewering of Illawarra suburbs,
if the money can be got. Sewage will be
carried from “the old sewage farm at
Rockdale to the ocean at Long Bay.”
Minister Dunningham has already raised
the cry of “beach pollution,” and the
chorus has been taken up by Moverly,
the member for Randwick, and a host
of others.
Dunstan says his Government is con-
sidering the appointment of a royal com-
mission to investigate the metropolitan
sewerage system. He might as justifi-
ably appoint a royal commission to in-
vestigate the solar system. There is no-
thing wrong with the sewerage system,
but because of a beef-measles scare,
laughed at by scientists, a law has been
passed to prevent the board selling
cattle from its sewage farm. Dunstan
had it passed, and thereby he created a
financial problem which he has made
no attempt to solve.
T. J. Hughes, whom the Westralian
Labor bosses regard as Public Enemy
No. 1, convinced the State Supreme Court
and Full Court that, by taking a salary
for being chairman of the State Lotteries
Commission, Clydesdale, the Labor
M.L.C., had infringed the Constitution,
since he was holding an office of profit
under the Crown. The High Court
reversed the judgments, and Hughes
was ordered to return a penalty of £2OO
paid by Clydesdale, and was socked for
all costs. Now Draper, J., has made
an order for the sequestration of his
estate.
In more spacious days, Westralia’s
“Diver” Hughes, who has crashed finan-
cially as a result of contending valiantly
for a principle, would have been freed
from his embarrassment by public sub-
scription. If the secessionists had any
consistency they would take the initia-
tive, since two Westralian Courts found
for him and he was reduced to his
present plight by the judgment of a
“foreign” Court. Hughes was coming out
for East Perth (he was its Labor member
once) against Kenneally, the “full-time”
Minister for Employment and Labor
Unity Conferences. Every Parliament
needs a watchdog, and the Perth legis-
lature hasn’t had one since the days of
Vosper and the young “Mulga” Taylor.
Hughes would make a good one.
The Taxpayers’ Association has pub-
lished interesting graphs showing a
quarter-century of records in the taxa-
tion high-jump. In 1909-10 the seven
Australian Governments got along with
£16,731,000 of tax-revenue; in 1934-35
they got away with £95,177,439. That
amount exceeded the estimated gross
value of pastoral production for the
income-tax year 1933-34 (£94,924,000)
and was almost equal to the combined
outputs of agriculture (£70,732,000) and
the mining industries (£17,608,000).
Attacks on the Lang dictatorship are
to be launched at a metropolitan Labor
conference next month. One branch of
the A.L.P. would withdraw from the
Boss the power “to direct the policy of
the party on matters of urgency between
conferences” ; and three are for depriv-
ing him of the privilege of choosing his
Minsters. Merely to hint at these
heresies would have meant expulsion
four or five years ago.
Among the critics of Queensland’s
Transport Strangulation Board is H. W.
Harrison, secretary of the Vic. Chamber
of Automotive Industries. In Victoria,
he says, the tax on a heavy motor is, at
most, £52 p.a.; in Queensland it is
nearly £lOOO p.a. In contrast to Queens-
land’s method of summarily driving
motor transport off the road without any
right of appeal, the Vic. Board has
recommended closure of four non-pay-
ing railway lines.
From a Northerner who has travelled:
The proposal of Judge Brennan (Q.) that
parents should be allowed to exercise an addi-
tional vote for each child under 21 in order
to promote fruitful marriages sounds strangely
from an ex-politician of the Labor side. It is
not an original idea, but it is one which Aus-
tralia would do well to follow out to its
practical outcome, as Belgium has done —or
did before the war. There every sane male
adult has a vote. If he does his military ser-
vice satisfactorily, he has two votes. If he
marries also he has three votes. If he has
more than two children he gets an additional
vote. Ownership of a certain amount of pro-
perty brings another vote. A university degree
brings yet another. All can be exercised only
in one block, of course, but the principle is
to enable the really useful citizen to swamp the
irresponsibles and the cranks.


DREAM-PICTURE: OIL SANCTIONS ARE EXTENDED TO AUSTRALIA.


——
SAVE
A JUGFUL OF PETROL
every hour you drive
by using
£
SHELL
S 55 C
ITS ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU MON
PERSONAL ITEM!
Lord Forster, Governor-General of
Australia from 1920 to 1925, looked
more like a Shakspearean actor at first
glance than the good financier and
sportsman he was. Commissioner of the
Treasury for three years in the early
part' of the century, and financial secre-
tary to the War Office from 1915 to
1919, he was a sound and tactful admini-
strator, and no Australian ever needed
to be at a loss for a topic with him. He
played for Eton, for Oxford and for the
Gentlemen of England, and was always
ready to talk cricket. Just on 70 when
he died in London last week, he leaves
no heir —both his sons were killed in the
war.
Keith Officer, who took Federal Trea-
surer Casey’s place as Australian liaison
officer in the British Foreign Office, is a
different type from his predecessor—not
KEITH OFFICER, of the Foreign Office.
so serious and fonder of social life. Scion
of a well-rooted pastoral family and
Melbourne-born, he had barely been
admitted to the Bar and settled down as
associate to Justice Higgins, of the High
Court, when he was called to Europe to
appear in the well-known trial the
World v. Wilhelm, which he and others
won with record costs. He rose to be
D.A.A.G. of the Australian Army Corps,
and emerged from the strife with an
M.C. and a wanderlust which took
him to Northern Nigeria as political
officer. Afterwards he was private secre-
tary to the Nigerian Governor before
he returned home to become adviser to
the External Affairs Department.
William Percival, who died in Sydney
during the week, was a good Australian,
father of several business enterprises in
the N. S. Wales capital and rural dis-
tricts, and of a family of adventurous
Australians widely scattered over the
world. One son, Edgar, is one of the
world’s best-known aeroplane designers;
another is a doctor in London, and a
daughter is making good at Hollywood
after marrying a title.
The Archibald Prize entries enriched
Australian portraiture with a number
of fine likenesses of Bulletin men.
Longstaff’s winning picture was of
“Banjo' 5 Paterson, and was painted
through the generosity of J. H. Curie,
whose eulogium, written beside R. L.
Stevenson’s grave in Samoa, was one of
the finest compliments ever paid to this
paper by an overseas writer. There was
also a painting of Rod Quinn by E. M.
Smith, one of the younger school, and
about the best of the five submitted by
Hanke, last year’s winner, was of Unk
White, who shortly will leave for Spain
and S. America.
John Longstaff, apart from being Aus-
tralia’s first painter-knight, is one of the
leaders among artistic prize-winners. He
got his first real start in the artistic world
by winning the first Victorian Govern-
ment travelling scholarship with his
“Breaking the News” in 1887. He has
exhibited at the Paris Salon, the Royal
Academy and the Royal Portrait Society.
Latterly, he has been known almost en-
tirely as a portrait painter, his subjects
including King Edward VII. and Queen
Alexandra —that work is in the Sydney
National Gallery. He has now won the
Archibald prize five times—this year
with a picture of The Bulletin’s old
contributor “Banjo” Paterson.
James Muir Auld, known to Bulletin
readers of a couple of decades or so
back as one of its regular black-and-white
artists, is this year’s winner of the Wynne
Prize for landscape-painting, judged by
the trustees of the N.S.W. National
Gallery. He lives at Thirlmere (N.S.W.).
Jimmy learned art under veterans Jimmy
Watkins and Julian Ashton, and launched
out as a freelance fairly early in life.
After he returned to Australia from a
trip abroad in 1911, the lure of paint
seized him, and he finally abandoned
black-and-white work for color, ex-
hibiting first with the Royal Art Society
and later with the Society of Artists, Syd-
ney, also with the Water-color Institute.
He is represented in the N.S.W., Adel-
aide and Brisbane Galleries, while The
Bulletin’s Macleod Gallery has a few
of his choice paintings on exhibit.
Coventry has embalmed the bluff
heartiness of Abe Shannon, but no pic-
ture could do full
credit to his good
heart and endless
vitality. Successful
grazier, sporting
man, unobtrusive
fairy godfather to
many a down-and-
out Digger and lag-
ging cause, he is one
of the figures who
stand out in S. Aus-
tralian life. Recently
he bought Long-
staff’s portrait of the
King and presented
it to Parliament
House, Adelaide.
“Ura m a o
Maorilander S i r
Harold Gillies, chief
plastic surgeon to
the London County
Council and
“Bart’s,” has been
in the cables again ;
the King of the,
Belgians is under
treatment by the
great plastic surgeon
to remedy facial dis-
figurement incurred
in the accident that
involved the death
of the Queen. And Dr.Gillies has grafted
the ear of a 65-year-old grandmother
on the head of a seven-year-old grand-
child. He is a native of Dunedin —son
A patriotic pastoralist.
of a M.H.R. —and rose to eminence
during the European war.
Poor Phil Newbury, who died in
poverty in N.Y., must surely have been the
last of the Santley school of tenors. The
black moustache, the sartorial ensemble,
the air, all looked as if they had been cut
out of “Punch.” At times his seasons in
Australian capitals were long, but over-
seas he encountered a flood of refugees
of his own generation in process of being
beaten to earth by the crooners and the
radio.
“Jape”: I wonder how many people
will remember Gitta Alpar, the glamor-
ous Hungarian singer, whose new pic-
ture, “I Give My Heart',” has just been
announced? She was in Sydney less
than eight years ago. The soprano had
left Europe a year or two previously to
settle in M.L. with her husband. He
died there, leaving Gitta to struggle as
best as she could. She made her way
to Sydney and applied in vain for en-
gagements. Broadcasting powers and
music clubs were unwilling to engage an
unknown foreigner. To an acquaintance
she exclaimed, “If I could only get to
Berlin I would soon be in a big position!”
Her recent recordings—one with Tauber
—and now her first star film seem to
amply justify the lady’s faith in herself.
Lieut.-Col. Harry Bundock, a mem-
ber of the well-known Wyangerie pas-
toral family, has lived a military life of
extremes. In youth he proved himself
a crack rifle-shot, and represented his
college—St. Paul’s —and Sydney Univer-
sity in many shoots. He joined the
R.A.A. in 1908, went abroad with the
Ist Australian Siege Brigade, command-
ing the Ist Battery; he was twice
wounded, twice mentioned in dispatches
and was awarded the D.S.O. Since the
war, he has done a staff course and has
been attached to the artillery in Mel-
bourne, but he is now to take charge
of the new Sydney 9.2 batteries. He
married into a military family—his wife
is a sister of Harry Chauvel’s wife and
of Harold Jopp, D. 5.0., another old
R.A.A. man.
Cherry Kearton, who is in Australia,
was the world’s pioneer nature-photo-
grapher, and the first man to make movies
of big game in their natural haunts. He
also took the first aerial pictures of
London from a balloon in 1905. During
the war he was a
captain in the sth
Royal Fusiliers. He
is a bluff, kindly
man, with only one
hatred in his shrewd
Yorkshire head—he
abhors the kind of
movie artist who
practises cruelty to
beast and native to
make tense situa-
tions.
Ben Nathan,
whose estate has
been sworn at
£1,087,000, was one
of the most unob-
trusive of million-
air es. Controlling
immense Melbourne
interests, he started
making big money
in the furniture firm
of Maples, and he
gradually spread his
interests, which
included racing,
over most of
the capitals. His
20 - acre Elsternwick garden was a
show-place, and his orchid collec-
tion was among the finest in the
world.
A. K. Trethowan is a big man in more
than one sense. He was born in the town
which fathered the Lindsays—Creswick
(Vic.) —and the snows of that often-chilly
village early frosted him over with a
veneer of austerity which is only skin-
deep. The most useful gift handed out
to him by Nature was a determined jaw,
which helped him out of Wheatgrowing
The Country party’s financier.
and grazing to success after years of
struggle in establishing the Farmers and
Graziers’ Co-operative Agency of Sydney,
which occupies the most ancient of Syd-
ney’s great woolstore houses —Mort’s, on
Circular Quay. He has been a power
in the Farmers and Settlers’ Association
for many years, and is the perennial
president of the N. S. Wales Country
party, dominating its organisation and
keeping a finger on its finances. After
the war he was appointed to the N.S.W.
Legislative Council, and was elected for
six years when the House was recon-
stituted in 1933. He was knighted on
Jan. 1. He has one hobby—hard work.
From an old critic:
As Premier Stevens might put it, Patrick
Lynch, now in his second term of Senate Presi-
dency, enjoyed two brief and precarious spells
of office (“Mr. Weaver has enjoyed poor health
for a considerable time”) before the present
steady job came his way. He had two months
in Westralia’s first Labor Ministry, coming in
at the fag-end of its term; and he was a stop-
gap Minister for Works at the end of 1916,
when Hughes was still carrying on with Labor
conscriptionists. That job lasted less than three
months. It was a union secretaryship—that
of the goldfields engine-drivers—which got
Lynch his first Labor nomination. Whether
as Laborite or Nationalist, he has always been
a favorite with both sides of the House, and
he has never fought a losing battle at the polls.
“El V.” on an immortal:
Rudyard Kipling is dead in London, at 70.
In the gay ’nineties Kipling was the idol of the
common man with a taste for reading, but the
Court frowned on him because of his references
to the “widow at Windsor.” At the end of the
Great War he was one of the few civilians
invited to the Royal banquet which celebrated
the victory—he sat next to John Monash,
who described him as “a man after my own
heart —intent on his food.” I heard him speak
once in London —his delivery was poor —and
once I found him browsing in a second-hand
bookshop in a Sussex town, cold pipe nestling
in his palm, an aloof little figure having a
cheap dip into Religio Medici. No writer of
his age achieved fame so young and with so
little educational and personal influence. He
was born in Bombay, son of a civil servant,
who illustrated some of his son’s books; his
mother was sister to the mother of Stanley
Baldwin. In Lahore an old retainer of the
“Civil and Military Gazette” told me that as a
junior sub-editor Kipling seemed “a very little
man who splashed ink all over everything and
who could never remember where he left his
topee.” And Kim —his real name is Beattie
and he still lives in Quetta —found him “very
inquisitive.” Otherwise the new India when I
was last there seemed to be as unconscious
of him as the rest of the modern world. Kip-
ling wrote an Australian yarn —the kangaroo
tale in the Just-so Stories —in which he proved
that he was about the only writer of tales
who knew that the prevailing color of the
heart of Australia was red.


:
m
m $
Bra kpc iri il V IIA
perfect but...
Think it over
and you'll tit
“CHECKSKIDS
100% brake efficiency drops to zero if tyres can’t
grip the road! Think of it .. . the area of road-
contact of a tyre amounts to a few inches only!
On the grip the tyre puts into those few inches
depends your safety. Don’t take chances .. . discard
those smooth, grip-less covers and fit Barnet Glass
Checkskids.
No other tyre has a tread like a Checkskid. It
holds and grips with an unequalled tenacity, pre-
venting skid or slip on any surface. It stops
you . . . starts you . . . speeds you . . . safely, surely!
And—it wears more slowly—giving extra thousands
of safe miles which lessen running costs as well as
danger. Be wise—forget the idea of a few more
miles from those old, worn-smooth covers. Have
the local Barnet Glass dealer replace them with
Checkskids!
The New
“Checkskid”
unth MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
M 64. FP. 35 TREAD.
TYRES
W* M
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net
Busi- Profit oil
ness Old De- Dividends Written Re-
June, Profit, posits. 12+ p.c. Off. serves.
& & & £> £>
1925 505,981 2500 243,750 65,000 2,214,664
1926 522,308 750 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 .. 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 .. 3,305,646
1928 588,769 63 375,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
5 p.c.
1932 142,720 150,000 3,479,854
1933 214,327 - 150,000 50,000 3,494,181
1934 216,566 150,000 50,000 3,510,747
1935 238,580 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
A lot of water has run under* the bridge
since the accounts were made up, sent
to London (where the headquarters are)
and back to Australia again. It was a
period of low-export values, yet the total
volume of external trade (imports and
exports combined) expanded, owing to
the growth of imports, which meant satis-
factory earnings in the exchange section
of the business. Balance-sheet move-
ments look healthier, both as regards
local trade activity and the bank’s earn-
ing power, than at any time during the
last five years:—
Liabilities.
1932. 1934. 1935.
N °tes .. .. £1,028 £1,027 £1,015
Bills, etc. . . 1,878,911 1,893,267 1,868,676
Deposits at in-
terest .. 19,403,465 20,131,519 19,576,954
Free deposits.. 9,968,820 11,899,829 12,832,399
Total .. £31,252,224’£33,925,642 £34,279,044
Assets.
Liquids .. £14,196,155 £15,496,330 £13,264,435
Advances . . 24,767,786 26,217,746 28,813,047
Premises .. 711,103 725,279 753,855
Total .. £39,670,044 439,355 £42,831,337
A contraction of £554,565 in fixed
deposits was accompanied by a growth
of £2,595,301 in advances and a drop
of £2,231,895 in low-interest-bearing
liquids; current accounts were up
£932,570. It all means that the out-
look locally had improved enough to
induce money to leave the shelter of the
bank for the risk of trading enterprise.
The ratio of advances to deposits was
88.9 p.c. as against 81.8 p.c. at the previ-
ous balance, and over the same period
the ratio of liquids to liabilities to the
public dropped from 45.6 p.c. to 38.7
p.c., which is more than is usually con-
sidered adequate.
Gross earnings were £25,096 better:
1930. 1934. 1935.
Gross earnings .. £1,587,758 £1,000,763 £1,025,859
Exes 827,941 700,554 717,578
Taxation .. . . 227,081 78,644 64,701
Net profit.. .. 542,736 221,566 243,580
The larger business was handled at an
extra cost of £17,024; the tax bill was
£13,943 lighter. After sending £5OOO to
the staff fund, the net result benefited by
£22,014, reaching 7.9 p.c. on the
£3,000,000 of capital as against 7.2, 7.1,
4.7, 8.7, 17.7 and 19.7 back to 1929,
which was two years after the Royal, with
its snug little Victorian business, was
absorbed.
The div. was kept at 5 p.c., worth 6i
p.c. in Australian currency with exchange
as it is, and another £50,000, shown as
written off in the table, was openly set
aside for contingencies. To pay a 5 p.c.
div., plus interest on the perpetual stock
•—£1,872,966, a reminder of the ’nineties,
costing the co. a shade over 3£ p.c.—
capital, reserves and perpetual stock com-
bined need net only 2f p.c.
Since the close of accounts prices for
wool, wheat, metals and dairy produce
have strengthened, and internal trade has
continued to improve. Combined with
less pressure from fixed deposits and a
growth in advances, it all favors a better
showing at next balance.
At £5 17s. the £5 shares paid to £3
return 3.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, after
allowing for exchange, or 3.8 p.c. on the
basis of a 6 p.c. div. The net tangible
coVfer is 435. 7d. per pound of paid
capital.
The Federal Government has appointed
a commission to inquire into the Aus-
tralian banking and monetary systems,
not because the banks are making fat
profits,. but because many people have
woolly ideas about bank and other credit.'
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towaids
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 156,581 15 p.c. = 112,501 44,080 30,946
Reserves.
1926.. 106,249 10 „ „ 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
1929.. 134,340 15 „ ~113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. .. 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 134 p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 . . . . 314,208
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 ~ „ 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 54,, „ 41,821 1,590 293,146
1935. . 80,286 10 ~ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Seeing difficulties ahead of the indus-
try, this Victorian co. and Kandos
(N.S.W.) got into double harness in 1930.
Each handed over its working assets for
a half-interest in a new operating co.,
Australian Portland Cement Pty., paid
capital £2,000,000. The works are at
Fyansford (Vic.) and Kandos (N.S.W.),
each capable of turning out 225,000 tons
of cement annually, together equal to
42.2 p.c. of the total plant capacity of
the seven cement manufacturing cos.
operating in N. S. Wales, Vic. and Tas.
The Fyansford plant is the only one in
Vic., where Goliath Portland, Tas. (capa-
city 85,000 tons p.a.), has also won a
market.
The pty. does not publish its figures,
but it sent along enough to enable this
holding co. to pay satisfactory divs. dur-
ing the worst years of the slump. The
Australian output of cement reached its
peak, 753,580 tons, equal to 57 p.c. of
tofal plant capacity, in 1927-28 ; the
figure dropped to 247,396 tons in 1931-32,
and ihere has been a steady annual in-
crease since, thanks to the revival of
building activity and Government spend-
ing on public works. During the last
term there was a sharp spring of £36,875
in this Australian co.’s net earning, which
was equal to 10.5 p.c. on capital as
against 5.7, 5,1, 5.5 and 5.4 p.c. back
to the year following the merger. The
div. was lifted from 5i p.c. to 10 p.c.
Here is as much as can be seen of the
finances from the holding co.’s sheet:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £760,178 £760,283 £760,348 £760,433
Liabilities .. 6,163 3,094 8,156 8,545
Investments .. 1,023,750 1,022,438 1,023,438 1,024,963
Rook debts. . 57,667 10,881 7,872 5,843
Cash.. .. 63,803 36,725 53,152 81,155
Besides the 1,000,000 £1 shares in the
operating co. (shown at par) there are
16,168 shares in the Stream Line Filter
Co. (in at £16,168) and a small holding
(£3750) in Bates (A’asia), Ltd., and £3520
in Commonwealth securities. Since the
close of accounts the co. has sold its
holding in the Stream Line Filter at “a
satisfactory figure.”
What the future holds for the indus-
try will depend largely upon what the
Government does in connection with the
tariff. The estimated Australian demand
for the next five years has been put at
between 500,000 tons and 600,000 tons
of cement per annum, or less than half
the annual rated capacity of the existing
plants. At present the duty on imported
cement is 20s. per ton British preferen-
tial and 30s. per ton general
The Tariff Board recently recom-
mended abolition of the duty on British
cement and reduction of the general tariff
to 20s. per ton. Under these conditions
local manufacturers would, the board
claims, still be able to make a profit of
10s. per ton. British manufacturers, how-
ever, refused to supply the board with
their costs, and it was not made plain
that adequate consideration had been
given to the possibilities of dumping.
The Government has referred the matter
back to the board, and there it stands
for the present.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the fully-paid pound shares at 335.
as against 255. a year ago. At the higher
figure the return is 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover (book
value) is 275. 9d.
Bebarfalds, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends Towards
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £, £ £ £
1927.. 22,288 8,000 8 p.c. = 16,981 4,205
Reserves.
Assets written up, £66,517 .. .. 62,312
1.928.. 8,605 8,000 Nil 605 62,917
1929.. 25,764 10,716 5 p.c. = 10,668 4,380 67,297
1930.. 7,478 15,960 Nil 58.815
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 90,199 Nil Nil 31,384
1932.. 29,948 Nil Nil 61,332
1933.. 13,318 Nil Nil 74.650
Taxation adjustment, £2099.. .. 72,551
Profit.
1934.. 4,554 Nil Nil 4,554 67,997
1935.. 13,793 Nil Nil 13,793 54,204
This co. does a large furnishing and fur-
nishing-drapery business, mostly on a
t.-p. basis. Paid capital is £412,900 in
100,000 A and 99,500 B prefs., both 8
p.c. cumulative, and 213,400 ords. The
prefs., in which the public is interested
(the ords. are all held privately), have
not had a div. for the last five years.
Still, they now look like coming into
the picture again, though on what basis
has yet to be determined.
The trouble began when, following the
erection of fine new premises in 1929, to
help finance which the co. went substan-
tially into debt, the business was further
dislocated by resumptions in connec-
tion with the widening of Park-street and
construction of the city railway. Then
slump brought an almost complete stop-
page of home and other building and
the furnishing that goes with it, as well
as a heavy crop of bad debts and trouble
with stocks, and losses aggregating
£133,465 were recorded for the three
years to the close of accounts in 1933.
Since then there has been a marked
revival in the furnishing and furnishing-
drapery trade, accompanied by a steady
growth of employment, which has meant
much so far as the co.’s old book debts
and the granting of new credits are con-
cerned ; also prices are on a firmer basis.
Hence the board was able to record a
profit of £4554 in 1934, followed by an-
other of £13,793—£1424 more than a
full year’s pref. divs. now call for—for
the last term, thus reducing the p. and 1.
debit to £20,811. Goodwill (£33,393),
not treated as an asset herein, raised the
amount of ord. capital unrepresented by
tangibles in the books to £54,204.
The outside debt overshadows the
accounts. When the books last closed
it totalled £468,694 (up £7932), or
£109,998 more than the share capital,
less intangibles:
n .. , „ n 192 - 1930. 1934. 1935.
raid capital.. £312,265 £412,895 £412,900 £412,900
Mortgages . * * 216,150 220.192
Overdraft ) f 173,013 164,612 165:267
Sundry t 99,591 \
creditors J [ 109,597 80/000 83,235
Freehold, etc. 126,306 t 336,009 f 554,206 554,063
Want .. 16,353 27,787 13,856 12,430
Stocks . . 102,356 110,228 78,040 79 367
Book debts, etc. 195,724 285,339 158,880 180,793
Investments . . 1,000 1,000 683 738
*Not stated.
f After deducting an unspecified amount of mortgage.
Debtors’ balances (up £21,913 net), stocks
and investments together exceeded the
floating debt (£248,502) by £12,396, an
improvement of £19,405 over the twelve-
month. Total outside liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids by £207,796.
Earnings have continued to improve,
and some payment could be made
to the prefs. if their rights were modified,
the board says. It proposed that arrears
of divs. to June 30, 1933 (£41,596), be
cancelled and that 4 p.c. p.a. (total
£15,960) be paid in five equal annual
instalments for the two years to
June 30, 1935; thereafter the contract
rate on both A and B shares to be re-
duced to 5| p.c., with the right to parti-
cipate with the ords. beyond that point
to 6| p.c. The proposals lapsed for want
of a quorum at meetings called to con-
sider them. It all looks like an abroga-
tion of pref. rights for the benefit of
the ords. No harm would be done if the
prefs. were given the right to advance
to their original contract rate with the
ords., together with an equity in surplus
earnings equal to the arrears of div. fore-
gone (£50,374).
The market prices the A shares at 11s.
7d. and the Bs at 9s. 7d. The net tan-
gible cover (book value) is £3 11s. Bd.
As and £2 ss. 3d. Bs.
Usher’s Hotel (Sydney)
, Dividends Towards
Prefs. Re-
Aug., Profit.(B p.c.) Ordinary. serves. Deficit:.
£ £ £ £ £
23.. 16,539 560 10 p.c. = 15,600 379 14 876
’24.. 9,391 560 6 „ „ 9,360 ISJOo
’25.. 10,149 560 6 „ „ 9,360 229 15,176
’26.. 10,283 560 6J „ „ 10,140 15 593
’27.. 12,003 560 7 ~ ~ 10,920 523 15,070
’28.. 13,589 560 8 „ „ 12,480 549 14,521
’29.. 9,052 560 5 „ ~ 7,800 692 13 829
’30.. 10,102 560 5 „ „ 7,800 1742 12,087
’31.. 8,782 560 5 „ „ 7,800 422 11,665
(6.2 p.c.)
’32.. 12,010 497 6J „ „ 10,140 1373 10,292
(8 p.c.)
’33.. 15,043 560 9 ~ „ 14,278 205 10,087
’34.. 17,001 560 10 „ „ 15,600 841 9,246
’35.. 17,070 560 10 „ ~ 15,600 910 8,336
Considering the experience of residential
hotels generally during the last few diffi-
cult years, Usher’s has made an excep-
tionally good showing. Gross earnings,
which fell from £46,295 in ’29 to £33,304
in ’3l, were £44,074 (down £870) last
year. Over the half-dozen years in ques-
tion the ratio of net to gross earnings
rose from 19.5 p.c. to 38.7 p.c.; it indi-
cates that the management has kept a
tight hold upon exes.
After handing the prefs. their full con-
tract rates, enough remained last year to
show 10.5 p.c. on the £156,000 of ord.
capital as against 10.5, 9.2, 7.3, 5, 6.1,
5.5 and 8.4 p.c. back to 1928. That was
after sending the usual £l2OO to the
depreciation reserve, raising it to £24,000.
Leaving this out of the reckoning, £8336
of the capital was unrepresented by
tangibles when the books closed.
The diy. was kept at 10 p.c. It is by
no means secure. The average for the
seven years to the close of accounts in
1929 was a wink under 7 p.c.; the margin
between earnings and distributions is
'very narrow, and competition is getting
a bit more of an edge on it. Much de-
pends upon the quality of the service
the co. continues to give. Incidentally,
after the site of the old Metropolitan
Hotel was sold to the now-defunct Daily
Telegraph Co. in 1913, A. J. Usher built
a new Metropolitan a few doors down
the street. Then came the war year, and
lavish spending, and Usher’s was able to
double its capital by the issue of £78,000
of bonus scrip in 1920, assets being writ-
ten up £54,414 for the purpose.
The market prices the fully-paid
pound ords. at 325. 6d. ; they dropped
as low as Bs. 6d. in 1931. The return
at 325. 6d. is 6.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or approximately 5 p.c. on an 8
p.c. distribution. The prefs. (there are
only 7000 of them) seldom come on to
the market. Excluding the depreciation
reserve, the net tangible cover is over
£22 prefs. and 18s. lid. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1924. 1931. 1934. 1935
Paid capital. . £163,000 £163,000 £163,000 £163,000
Overdraft . . 29,447 25,470 11,752 9,963
Sundry creditors 6,616 7,376 6,988 7,369
Freehold' .. 151,336 161,950 162,031 162,226
Furniture, etc. 34,474 37,422 37,433 37,374
Stocks .. 5,966 3,138 2,288 2.903
Book debts . . 5,460 6,691 5,258 4,965
Cash .. . . 322 681 994 843
Last year £1789 was chipped olf the
overdraft, reducing the excess of liabili-
ties over more or less liquids to £8621,
a net gain of £1579 over the 12 months.
There has been little change in the book
value of fixed assets since 1928, notwith-
standing alterations and additions mean-
while. In this class of business much
depends upon expenditure on replace-
ments, etc.
Peters’ American Delicacy (Vic.)
Towards
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, preliminary exes., etc... 58,578
1930.. 7,634 Nil 66,215
1931.. 16,475 Nil 82,690
Profit.
1932.. 3,895 Nil 3895 78,795
Intangibles written off, £38,795 .. 40,000
1933.. 8,668 6 p.c. = 7350 1318 38,682
Reserve for depreciation, etc.
(£19,198, up £8403), taken in.. 19,484
1934. . 14,225 8 p.c. = 9799 4426 15,058
Added to depreciation reserve, £BlOl.. 6,957
1935.. 9,632 6 p.c. = 7347 2285 4,672
Although it failed to live up to the high
expectations formed of it at the start,
this co. now shows promise of develop-
ing into a satisfactory dividend-payer.
The 200,000 £1 shares offered in 1929
were more than 10 times oversubscribed ;
investors were impressed by the success
of the parent co. in Sydney and by the
quick development of an offshoot in
Brisbane. But the boom burst before
this youngster could get on its feet, and
its first two years’ trading resulted in
losses aggregating £24,109, which, to-
gether with goodwill, patents, etc., lifted
the amount of capital unrepresented by
tangibles to £82,690. Then the co. turned
the corner, and, to clear the way for
payment of divs., lighten the load of
goodwill, etc., and bring the book value
of fixed assets more into line with fallen
values, £82,825 was lopped off paid capi-
tal, reducing it to £122,505 in 12s. shares,
of which 94,500 are fully paid and the
balance paid to 4s. 9d. each.
The summer included in the 12
months covered by the last accounts was
the coolest since the co. was formed in
1929. This affected the sale of ice-cream,
and declared net earnings were £4593
lighter at 7.9 p.c. on capital as against
11.6, 7.1 and 2.1 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms. So a couple of points were
knocked off the div., reducing it to 6
p.c. That was after setting aside £BlOl
(= 15 p.c. on the written-down book
value of plant at the close of accounts
in 1934) for depreciation, etc., making
total provision for this purpose £27,300.
Including this, only £4672 of the capital
was unrepresented by tangibles when
the books last closed—goodwill, etc.
(£40,000), is not treated as an asset
herein.
Because the existing factory (it was
taken over with the IXL ice-cream busi-
ness at the start) became too small, a
new one has been set up in premises,
bought during the last term, at Richmond
(Vic.). Since most of the co.’s trade is
on that side of Melbourne, the new loca-
tion should mean savings in delivery as
well as operating costs. The year’s net
increase in the book value of freeholds
was £31,627, and in plant £11,217:
IQ3O IQQO 1Q34 1935.
Paid capital. . £174,189 £204,708 £122,505 £122,505
Sundry creditors 15,432 2,161 1,607 25,703
Freeholds .. 34,723 34,973 27,119 58,746
Plant . . 87,418 118,162 53,998 65,215
Stocks . . 7,979 4,804 3,411 2,859
Book debts . . 4,446 2,528 1,045 2,087
Cash, etc. . . 27 1,323 29,607 18,302
To finance the outlay the co. raised
£15,000 on mortgage, went to the bank
for £4560 on overdraft, added £4536 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£6143) and drew upon cash, etc., for
£11,305 net. When the books closed,
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


sleaze;
ill ( NIVI d QNV a Id dll! % 80 0 |il#
irifli* nimm*miw
. /ODDVaoi,.
( VINIOdW) -•
K\ „ ••:-lllf -'''
gT?>
% ' /
% -
$ . v
3


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES ,
m
m
SOCiITY
A
mmmmmm
mom
u
mm
>■** ** *iV ' -
ppifl
Of importance to all
EMPLOYEES
UNDER the A.M.P. Group Assurance
system men and women in the same
employ can obtain all the great bene-
fits of A.M.P. assurance at special rates of
premium by forming themselves into
groups and arranging with their employers to
deduct the premiums in small amounts regularly
from their wages or salaries.
These are but a few of the advantages of the
A.M.P. system:—
(1) More assurance can be obtained for the same
outlay.
(2) No medical examination is necessary for assurance
up to £5OO if under age 50, except in rare cases.
(3) Dependents receive the protection of the full face
value of the policy immediately it is issued.
(4) Each member of the Group has his or her own
policy under his or her own control.
(5) Should a member leave a Group in one employ, he
or she may transfer the policy to a Group operating
in his or her new employ; or
(6) The member has the option of continuing the
assurance as an ordinary policy at the usual yearly,
half-yearly, or quarterly premiums.
During the last five years the A.M.P. has paid out
£30,700,000 to its members or their dependents. It has
demonstrated that no other office can give as much real
protection for every pound invested. Its bonuses over
the years are unexcelled anywhere.
The Society has published a book, “John Applethorn
Finds Himself,” of which it would like to see a copy in
every office, warehouse, and factory. It deals fully with
Group Assurance. A copy will be posted gladly to any
address on request.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A, A. W. SNEDDON. F.I.A.
Actuary. General Manager,
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector, and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR"
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
guthridge, ltd.
10-12 Parramatta Camperdown,
S.ydney, N.S.W.
liabilities exceeded more or less liquids
by £2455, a swing of £34,911 over the
twelvemonth.
The fully-paids at 18s. return 4 p.c.,
and the contribs. at Bs. 3d. 3.4 p.c., on a
6 p.c. div. basis. Subject to the weather,
prospects are encouraging. The net
tangible cover is 19s. 2d. per pound of
paid capital, all in fixed assets, worth
what they can earn.
Consolidated Press, Ltd.
This is the co. which has bought the
goodwill and publishing rights of the
“Australian Women’s Weekly” and the
“Telegraph,” two Sydney journals owned
by Sydney Newspapers, Ltd., and Asso-
ciated Newspapers, Ltd., respectively. To
house and turn out the pair, the co. has
also bought the building and plant of
the now-extinct “Evening News,” owned
by S. Bennett, Ltd., the lame partner in
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
Nominal capital is £750,000 in £1
shares, of which 100,000 are prefs., carry-
ing a fixed cumulative 6 \ p.c., and the
balance ords. Only the prefs., which have
been underwritten by C. B. Quinan and
Cox at 6d. a share, are offered for public
subscription. They enjoy priority as to
capital and dividend, but do not share
in surplus assets or carry any voting
power, unless the co. is to be wound up,
sold or its capital reduced, or unless the
pref. div. is more than three months in
arrears or the rights attaching to the
shares are to be altered. On the basis
of prospectus figures they will have a
net tangible backing of £2 15s. 9d. per
share. The net earnings of the “Women’s
Weekly” for the year to Nov. 30 last
(£13,744) more than twice cover their
annual div. requirements (£6500).
Of the ords. 150,000 are to be taken
and paid for in cash by Sydney News-
papers, Ltd., E. G. Theodore and D. F.
H. Packer; 160,000 paids go to Asso-
ciated for the “Evening News” plant
(35,000 —valued at £65,750) and the good-
will of the “Telegraph” (150,000); 265,000
paids are to be handed to Sydney News-
papers for the goodwill of the “Women’s
Weekly.”
The co. will thus have an issued capital
of £675,000, of which £390,000 will be
represented by goodwill, a very mercurial
element in a newspaper business, as
the history of the old “Daily Telegraph,”
and more recently of the “Daily
Guardian,” illustrates. The £250,000 of
cash subscribed capital is to be used
£95,000 for purchase of the “Evening
News” building (valued by H. L. Cross
and Co. at £96,750), £lOO,OOO for new
plant, including rotogravure presses for
the production of color work, and £6OOO
for preliminary exes., etc., leaving
£49,000 for working capital.
The co. hopes to complete all deals
and to commence business by the end of
March. Arrangements have been made
for an independent cable service.
At the start the backbone of the busi-
ness will be the “Women’s Weekly,” first
published in June, 1933. For the week
ended Nov. 30, 1935, circulation is put
at 327,274 copies in all States except
Westralia, where sales are to be under-
taken at an early date. Advertising con-
tracts now in hand are valued at £69,600
for the 12 months to Nov. 30, 1936, and
£40,900 for the next 12 months. Sydney
Newspapers, formed in Nov., 1932, began
to earn profits in March, 1935. On Feb.
14, 1935, it had an issued capital of
£32,108 (paid to £22,058), all but a hand-
ful of which was held by E. G. Theodore
and D. F. H. Packer. For the five
months to Nov. 30 last the co. netted
£15,527, equal to £37,265 p.a. What the
women’s paper will net in the future it
is difficult to say ; much depends upon
the course of competition and the extent
to which exes, are kept in hand.
The “Telegraph” (it claims a net
circulation of 100,000) is certified to have
netted £5387 for the 21 weeks to Nov.
24 last, equal to £13,344 p.a. But that
is not much of a guide as to what its
future earning capacity is likely to be.
That will depend upon what the new co.
is able to do with it, especially as an
advertising medium. One thing that
seems certain is an increase in expenses.
Still, there is room in Sydney for an-
other independent morning paper.
Assuming that the “Telegraph” neither
earns profits nor becomes a drag on the
rest of the business, and that the
“Women’s Weekly” continues to earn net
profits annually at the same rate as for
the five months to Nov. 30, the new co.
would have enough to pay its pref. div.
and show 5.3 p.c. on its ord. capital.
On the board are E. G. Theodore and
D. F. H. Packer. A third director, to be
approved by Theodore and Packer, is to
be nominated by Associated Newspapers.
Rosebery, on the West Coast of Tas.,
is all agog over the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
really starting operations there this
month. The big concentration plant,
built over five years ago to treat the
complex zinc ores, has not yet dealt
with a ton of feed. Just as all was ready,
the bottom fell out of the metal market.
However, with the power line from Wad-
damana to Rosebery completed, and with
metal prices as they are, the co.’s pros-
pects of now profitably treating the ore
are fairly bright. Zeehan, too, will
benefit. The 100 tons of concentrates to
be produced daily will yield more sul-
phur than the co.’s superphosphate
works, at Hobart, can use, and excess
sulphur is the devil to dispose of. Hence
part of the concentrates are to be railed
to Zeehan, roasted at the old smelters
there, well east of the town, and then
dispatched via Rosebery again to
Burnie, to join up with the green con-
centrates on the way to Hobart. Emu
Bay railway people are fussing round
eighteen to the dozen to deal with the
traffic.
* * * *
Anglo-Tasman Development, nominal
capital £20,000 in 100,000 shares of 4s.
each, has taken up 131 acres of tin-bear-
ing ground in the Renison Bell district,
Tas. Large deposits of sulphide ore,
estimated to contain from 0.65 p.c. to 1
p.c. metallic tin, exist; whether this
ore can be treated at a profit remains
to be seen.
* * * *
“O.B.” talks of the West: The holi-
days are over, refreshed bulls and bears
have resumed hostilities, and ambulances
are again busy among the financially in-
jured public. The State’s gold production
last year was 649,0470 z., or 22910 z. less
than for 1934, the decline being due to
the six weeks’ stoppage in January and
February over the hours clause in the
new award. The loss in production was
over 60,0000 z. Features of 1936 promise
to be (1) larger tonnages and larger
returns from some of the big mines,
notably Wiluna, Boulder, North Kalgurli
and Perseverance; (2) a substantial in-
crease in the number of smaller produc-
ing shows ; (3) more gold from re-treated
residue dumps; (4) wholesale destruc-
tion of 1935 wild cats, and (5) a striking
expansion in the State’s production.
Some of this expansion will, it is ex-
pected, come from recently reopened
and partially developed mines which
were closed down in the days when
metallurgical processes and equipment
were not what they are to-day, and when
gold was worth less than half its present
price. Youanmi is a typical example.
* * * *
Two Westralian cos., Edna May Amal-
gamated and Westralia Renown, have
hoisted further signals of distress. The
former is still having trouble in unwater-
ing its property. The latter, after a
31dwt. monthly return, announces that
operations have been suspended pend-
ing the arrival of atomisers from abroad ;
reconstruction and a 6d. call are believed
to be impending.
* * * *
Associated Northern Ora Banda, work-
ing on Associated Northern’s property at
Ora Banda (W.A.), cleaned up 5719 tons
of old sands from Nov. 1 to Dec. 18 for
310 fine ounces. Costs were 6s. a ton.
Net profit amounted to £905. There is
another 10,000 tons of sands and slimes
available. Before continuing develop-
ment from No. 7 level, it has been de-
cided to explore by diamond-drilling.
* * * *
The 4500-ton-a-month cyanide plant
at Marvel Loch (W.A.) is nearing com-
pletion. Ore reserves at 212,000 tons,
averaging over sdwt., are four years
ahead of the mill. For over two years
the co. has been developing three parallel
ore-bodies, over 2000 ft. long, to a depth
of 200 ft.
* * ■ * *
Yellowdine Options has taken an
option on the old Leinster mine, near
Lawlers (W.A.), which is being unwatered
and cleaned out. About 35,0000 z. of
gold was taken out of the Leinster dur-
ing the first seven years of this century,
and more than lOOoz. later. Then pay-
able values cut out, and work ceased.
Prospects of a profitable future are
doubtful.
*** * *
Mining Trust, Ltd., has secured,
through the American Smelting and Re-
fining Co., which owns a big wad of
the Trust’s shares, a 5 p.c. interest in Big
Bell (W.A.). Mining Trust, which took
over the non-Russian assets of Russo-
Asiatic Consolidated in 1929, has large
mining interests in Rhodesia, France,
Queensland and New Guinea, and owns
the Britannia Lead Co., which operates a
refinery at Northfleet, on the Thames,
for treatment of lead bullion from Mt.
Isa. Big Bell is the co.’s first spec, in
W.A.
* * *, *
Corderoy Mines, Ltd., has decided to
exercise its option over Pilgrim’s Rest, on
the Pilbara field (W.A.). Sampling on
the 120 ft. level shows 9dwt. over 12|ft.
The co. will sink the main shaft to 200 ft.,
crosscut the lode and drive from both
sides.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASTAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest’ Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.


FORGOTTEN PEOPLE
BY REX INGAMELLS
2.
As the sun leaps up behind the range, and throws
His radiance round the gums upon the crest,
All earth, it seems, remembers—all earth knows
A pang whose bitterness cannot be guessed.
As the sun swings up and over in the sky,
Each moment bears the smart of memories,
Although , the creeks go brimming, brimming by,
And the cockatoos fly, screeching, in the trees.
Though magpies in the bush call all the day,
From dawn until the sunset hills are gold,
Their ringing beauty does not charm away
A pang whose tenderness cannot be told.
How can a stranger hope to understand?
Dark ghosts go with me all about the land.
11.
With half-closed eyes, 1 saw by an old gum
Black, gleaming-bodied men stalk shadowily
To trap the kangaroo—and others come,
Loud with the zest of wild corroboree.
I saw men flashing in the fire’s weird glow,
Painted and decked with the white down of birds,
Stooping and crawling and leaping, row on row,
Shattering the night with charmed fantastic words.
Under that gum I saw bark wurlies stand:
Beside them, iii the noon, the lubras sat,
While piccaninnies tumbled on the sand,
And warriors hunted wildfowl on the flat.
I caught the echo of faint coo-ee crying;
1 glimpsed a vision of a people dying.
111.
Before white men made wurlies out of stone
To loom like tnatantjas against the sky,
The wandering black, in bushlands all his own,
Rubbed fire, speared fish, and watched the eagle fly.
After the white man came, the black man lost
His hunting-grounds and camping-grounds. He went,
Lonelier and lonelier, pitilessly tossed,
By fates he knew not, into banishment.
His waterholes were stolen or defiled,
And all his sacred tjurungas were tainted;
He went not stalking when the wan dawn smiled,
And came not to corroboree, weird-painted.
He lived not in reality but dreams,
/\ stranger to his tribal lands and streams.
IV.
Long strips of bark are hanging from the gums,
Long strips of bark. . , And on sun-withered grass
Long strips of bark are trailing. . . A bee-swarm hums
On an old mossed-over stump . . . Bees pass and pass.
How keen and sweet is the wild honey smell!
With wary glee the black folk robbed the bees,
Oh, long ago. . . And their delight how tell?
Delights like that were theirs for centuries.
I see a well-timed spear glint in the sun,
And the small rock-wallaby killed on the jump,
Then hear the laughter, watch the white-teethed fun
Of black folk feasting by that wattle-clump. . .
The magpies in the leaves above my head
Sing joy to-day, but the black folk are dead.
V.
No more the smoke-wisp signal climbs; no more
The boomerang glints, arching, in the sky;
The bush hears not the swinging-stick’s low roar,
Nor mountainsides the echoing coo-ee cry.
Things one with a forgotten people these.
Where black men roamed, our towns and cities stand:
Disrupted are their tribal mysteries;
Wheat, wool, and grapes are produce of their land.
How can a stranger tell the way they felt?
At best, sincere imaginings are mine.
1 find the old bark places where they dwelt,
See stars above an empty bushland shine.
1 can but guess their pain, and guess the white
And exquisite laughter of their lost delight.
VI.
Though to the west where once the bushland plain
Stretched primal from these ranges to the sea
The white man’s city has, in spreading, slain
Nature and hardly left a memory.
This hill is just as rugged now as when
No white man’s eye had seen it; these gaunt gums
And rooted rocks look seaward now as then;
And still the magpie’s ringing beauty comes.
Yet spirits of lost laughter and distress
Seem here to change even this spot of the ranges,
Lending trees, rocks and song a wistfulness
For vanished folk; but nothing else here changes.
The young leaves of the gums burn like real flame—
And so it was before the white man came.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bray Rock”: Zane Grey
is reported to have expressed
the intention of catching the
largest fish that Australia has
ever seen. It is to be hoped,
for his own sake, that he
does not manage to hook the
white shark which David
Stead has recorded as having
scared the Port Stephens
(N.S.W.) fishermen off the
outside grounds in 1918. It
swallowed crayfish pots, aver-
aging 3ft. 6in. in diameter,
whole, taking no account of
ropes and buoys. Stolid,
prosaic men, thoroughly ac-
quainted with all ordinary
kinds of sharks and whales
over a fishing lifetime, esti-
mated its length as at least
120 ft.—one crew said 300 ft.
—and the size of its head as
equal to the roof of the
wharf-shed at Nelson’s Bay.
All agreed that it was bigger
by far than any whale they
had ever seen —which means
over 80ft., at least—and was
of a ghostly whitish color. It
was probably one of the
deep-sea giants whose freshly-
shed teeth have been dredged
up, measuring sin. across the
base.
* . * *
“Tidapa”: “Snubber” (B. 1/1 /’36)
went too far from the city to see wild
life. I could take him to a spot less than
three miles from Sydney G.P.O. where
he could see a remarkable variety of
native fauna. The wooded slopes of
Sirius Cove are the home of gill-birds,
kookaburras and a host of feathered
friends. Rabbits and an occasional wal-
laby scamper through the undergrowth,
and the place is alive with possums and
bandicoots. Goannas and many kinds
of lizards sun themselves on the rocks,
and I know the exact place where a
ten-foot carpet-snake resides. Some of
these animals or their ancestors prob-
ably escaped from Taronga Park Zoo,
when only a high paling-fence separated
it from the cove.
* H= * *
“Grub”: When cane-growers have
nothing else to argue about there is
always the bandicoot. Some throw up
their hands in holy horror at the men-
tion of bandy’s name; to him they
attribute half their losses —“Look at that
fallen cane; that’s th’ blasted bandies
chewin’ at th’ roots.” Others regard the
old bandicoot as a godsend: “If it wasn’t
for them bandies the beetles ’ud have
th’ crop ruined. Toads! Giant toads!
P’ff! Give me a coupler bandies an’
I can kiss th’ beetles good-bye, an’ what
th’ bandies eats in return they’re wel-
come to.” The truth, as I see it, is that
bandy, being an omnivorous insect-eater,
deals impartially in sweet cane and tooth-
some beetles. As the latter destroys the
former, and as bandy takes a helping of
each, he-does more good than harm and
easily earns his keep.
“Junglewallah”: I beg to differ from
“Bert the Carpenter” (B. 11/12/’35).
Malabar teak is not “the world’s best
boat-building timber” —Burma teak is
far superior. It is straighter grained, has
a natural resin which renders nails driven
into it impervious to rust, and white-ants
leave it alone. It takes 200 years to
mature and attain a girth of six feet,
under which size felling is prohibited. I
have seen logs dug out of the bed of a
river, where they have lain for decades,
as sound as the day they were taken
out of the jungle.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A delicate international
situation has developed at Darwin. Some
time ago an emu, which was being taken
up to a zoo in the Dutch Indies, kicked
a Japanese passenger at Darwin and
damaged him rather badly. Now a tame
kangaroo has assaulted the elderly
Japanese proprietor of a Darwin soft-
drink shop. As the Australian coat of
arms has as supporters an emu and a
kangaroo, these unprovoked assaults on
the nationals of a friendly but proud
Power by our heraldic stock and poultry
clearly assume international importance.
Had the victims been Italians one
trembles to think of what might have
happened when Signor Mussolini heard
“It's very warm this morning, missus,”
"No good to me, then. Take it away and bring me a cold one.”
of it. As it is, a heavily-armed police
party is searching for the kangaroo,
assisted by a vigilance committee pre-
pared to lynch the criminal on the spot.
It is understood that a new set of Gov-
ernment ordinances is being prepared in
order to prevent any repetition of such
acts.
* * * *
“Carapace”: Let other amateurs mess
about with turtles. If I want to catch
them in a profitable manner I turn to the
Jap luggers. The Jap uses a spear fitted
in the end of a long haft, the barb being
not more than half an inch long at the
most. At first sight it seems a futile
thing. There is a reason for it —that
barb cannot injure the turtles ; the spear
is just long enough to go through the
shell without wounding the insect
beneath it. Hooked in that manner, it
can’t get away. When pulled on board
it is uninjured and, turned on its back,
it will keep fresh and lively for a fort-
night or more. That means Yokohama
doesn’t kill his turtle till he wants fresh
meat.
* * * *
“Silen”: That snakes, inveterate
tipplers of milk, would stoop to attach
themselves to Strawberry’s teats is no
doubt far-fetched, but I’ll vouch for this
one. A cow in heavy production was
last in the milking; when she was roused
to enter the bail, a pool of milk lay on
the ground from her dripping teats. A
small black snake, some three feet in
length, was mopping up the substitute for
its mother’s nourishment. No, it was
not Boxing Day or New Year either —
just one of the 365 of the cow-cocky’s
eternal grind.
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is making a strong
move to preserve its flora and fauna—
especially game. A meeting promoted
by the field-naturalist section of the
Royal Society was supported by the
Museum, the Tree-lovers’ League and the
Field-shooters’ and the Ornithological
and A vicultural societies. Game reserves
for kangaroo, emu and deer, far inland,
are talked of; but the main idea seems to
centre on the Coorong lagoon, alongside
the main road to Melbourne, with
definite breeding-centres. The main
trouble is going to be in keeping such
sanctuaries effectively patrolled and
policed.
* * * *
“8.D.”: Who told “Plankton” (B.
4/12/’35) that plumbago had yellow
flowers in Westralia? I have travelled
all over the State for the past 30 years,
and have never seen any but the blue
variety. My gardening friends tell me if
they ever see the yellow flower they will
either change their tipple or take a long
ride on the waggon.
* „ * ... * * , .
Severn : Travelling a new road in
a northern N.S.W. district, we came
upon two workers perspinngly pushing a
ciosscut saw through the butt of a big
ironbark. My companion offered them
one of our two bottles of Tooth’s, but
to my amazement and relief they refused
the gift. Driving on, we met three
more men digging drains. Despite my
muttered protest, the beer was again
offered, and rejected. We stopped there
to boil the billy, and a man of great
heft, wearing an “army” jersey, came
up. After a greeting we tendered him a
bottle. To our astonishment he accepted,
deftly knocked the cap off, nodded to-
wards us and swallowed the beer, seem-
ingly at one gulp. Then enlightenment
came. Formerly one of Evangeline
Booth’s captains, he was now foreman of
a scratch gang road-building. “When the
camp was formed,” he said, “they were a
tough, godless crew addicted to plonk
and language. However, by continuous
moral and physical suasion I gradually
got the drunken ones to sign the pledge,
Yes, there is always work in the vine-
yard, and occasionally,” with a wink at
the empty bottle, “the laborer is rewarded
with a little of the vintage.”
* * * *
“0.P.”: Steve discovered a bee’s nest
in a tall eucalypt, the lower branches of
which were 30 feet from the ground,
After deep consideration, he threw a
length of two-inch manilla over the
branch, attached one end to the sulky
and the other to himself. All might have
gone well, had not Steve’s missus, who
was in charge of the ground operations,
made the horse trot. Steve not only
reached his objective with remarkable
speed ; but descended with even greater
rapidity on the other side of the branch,
finishing with a hundred yards joy-ride
behind the sulky, before the frolicksome
horse could be pulled up.
* * * *
“Johnstone”: Out of N.Q. always comes
something extra tall in the way of tales,
An Innisfail resident went out of his
house at night to investigate a noise and
was chivied by a six-foot crocodile,
The post-mortem showed that it had
its hind legs hobbled with wire and its
mouth wired up also. The mouth had
been closed so long that the jaws were
rotting away, and the poor brute no
doubt welcomed the happy dispatch.
It had escaped from a backyard some
months previously. Sympathy with a
crocodile is hard to muster, but it may
be permitted to hope that in the croco-
dile heaven the tortured beast may dine
daily on people who imprison wild
animals and then leave them to cruel
and lingering deaths.
* * * *
“Eck de Schulzbach”: “Bray Rock’s'’
idea of the commercial value of kelp (B.
25/12/’35) is somewhat exaggerated. The
great bulk of the world’s iodine comes,
not from kelp, but from the enormous
deposits of caliche in S. America, as a by-
product of the manufacture of sodium
nitrate. Only .2 p.c. iodine is present in
the caliche, while the lowly kelp may
run as high as .3 p.c. Even so, prospects
of a flourishing Australian industry are
slight. Also agar-agar, the stiff gelatine-
like substance obtained from seaweed,
while of undoubted use as a stiffener, has
no food value, and so loses place com-
pared with gelatine.
# * * *
“Dingo”: “Ned Kelly’s” offsider (B.
1/1 / ’36) was lucky to come off so lightly
from the effects of an explosion offstage
when the gun was pointing at him. In
my student days, I remember a grin-
ning senior pointing an empty .303 at a
bewildered fresher. At the
psychological moment, some
goat fired a blank at the
reading-lamp. The explosion,
plus the sight of his own
blood where a piece of glass
from the lamp hit him, put
the lad into hospital for a
fortnight, warmly wrapped
up and quiet. A more curi-
ous effect on the human
mind was obtained by tying
the victim down and dangling
a tin of worms over his face
before blindfolding him. At
this stage pieces of wet
macaroni were inserted into
the patient’s mouth and his
nose held. The worms were
there again on removal of
the bandages, and results
were always satisfactory, if
a shade messy. They always
swore they had tasted the
worms going down.
* * *
“R.8.C.”: “Bray Rock’s”
reference to the Maid of Sker
(B. 18/12/’35), now doing
duty as a gravel barge, recalls
the fact that she once spent
a full year at the bottom of
the sea. She had been con-
verted to a barge, and was
being towed with 70 tons of
sand aboard. Choppy waves
washed into her and were
absorbed by the sand until
the extra weight took her to
the bottom, off Cleveland
(Q.). Then an attempt was
made to refloat her, and she
was suspended under a sal-
vage lighter for a couple of
weeks. With the advent of spring
tides the vessel was beached on King
Island, and at low water only six
inches of the gun’l showed above water.
To get her afloat again the owners had
to pump some 80 tons of water out in
about an hour.
* * ❖ *
“R.R.”: Wallabies on some of the more
remote forest banana plantations on the
N.S.W. North Coast play havoc with the
fruit. Frequently they can reach it by
standing on their hind legs, but when
this fails they will circle to the top side
of the hill, spring and grab a banana
and then circle back again for another.
A clearly-defined pad and a bare stalk
certify to their persistency.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: That Fijian who was
awarded the silver medal of the Royal
Humane Society for an attempt to rescue
his nephew from an attack by a barra-
cuda —the boy died later from a nearly-
severed arm —amply deserved recognition
of his bravery. Luckily for our surfers,
Australia’s only representative of the
genus Sphyrcena (or barracudas), the
short-finned pike, grows to an average of
15in. only, and is mainly an open-sea
fish. The barracuda is intensely vora-
cious, and on occasional visits to inshore
waters plays the dickens with young
garfish and mullet. In South Pacific,
West Indian and Western American
waters its cousins grow to Bft. or more,
and are more feared than sharks. They
are excellent game fish and good eating,
but dangerous brutes to handle. I saw
a Fijian lad lose four toes by one snap
from a 4ft. onga just landed in the
cockpit of a launch.
A FOOL INVENTION.
You 11 find some blokes,” said ’Bidgee Ben,
(t , and waved a deprecating hand,
Ave queer ideas of ’elpin’ coves that knock
a crust out on the land.
They fool about with things of no account
instead of tacklin’ first
Them problems that are looked upon by those
that know ’em as the worst.
“Some blasted Yank professor ’as been wearin’
out ’is dome, I see,
And wastin’ years in crossin’ breeds, and fol-
lerin’ up a pedigree,
To try an’ breed a tailless sheep. And now,
it seems, ’e’s strikin’ snags.
A good thing, too; I ’ope ’e thuds. But ain’t
e ever thought o’ dags?
“Now, if ’e really wants to ’elp—well, let ’im
box-on in the stud
An’ breed a type with legs that long they’ll
keep the crutch right orf the mud.
Or give the world a sheep that grows no wool
about the eyes,” said Ben,
“With daggin’ done and wiggin’, too, there’s
lots of chaps would thank him then.
“But breedin’ tailless woollies! Cripes, the
goat must be a shingle short
To come at that”; and ’Bidgee
Ben looked up and gave a
vicious snort.
“I s’pose the Prof.’s entitled to
’is own partic’lar point of
view,
But wot of us that docks the
tails? W’y, spare me days,
that’s what I do!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


‘Hellas”: A harassed farmer in the
Geraldton (W.A.) district had been en-
deavoring to cope with the emu pest by
putting down poisoned water at a well
in an outback paddock. One morning
he discovered that a party of tourists
from the city had visited the well. Scat-
tered around were five decapitated emus.
Besides depriving
him of 55., they had
added insult to in-
jury by leaving five
empty beer - bottles
strewn about. Each
one bore the label
“Emu Bitter”!
* *
“R e d Devon”:
Can endorse the re-
marks of “R.J.F.”
(B. 20/ 11/’35) re
mounting horses
from either right or
left side. On the
southern fringe of
Central Plateau
(Tas.) to mount
from the left side
means either a long
pull up from the
downhill side or
turning the nag com-
pletely ro u n d —a
ticklish job on a
narrow sheep path.
* *
“Marra”: In a
dry creekbed on the
Hawkesbury, armed
only with a .22 rifle,
I fired point-blank
into the coils of a
sft. brown - snake.
He slithered into a
near-by hole, and if
it hadn’t been for
the trail of blood he
left behind I would
have counted my
shot a miss. I poked
sticks into the hole in an endeavor to
tease the wriggler out again, but without
result. An hour later I passed the spot
and was surprised to find my friend
neatly coiled up a foot from the hole —
as dead as King Arthur. My bullet had
blown out his gullet. I concluded that
he had come out of the hole for no other
purpose than to lay his body above
ground. Why?
“Sa Tiko”: Tell “The O’D.” (B.
1/1 / ”36) I’ll pay a year’s subscription to
the Bully for any Aboliar who brings
me a maggie that has been killed by a
car. Any motorist or bagman can tell
you that maggie never comes nearer
than the grassy edge of the road. It is
the peewit that gets it in the neck, that
bird being frequently mistaken for the
talker. No need to worry about maggie.
* * * *
“Groper”: Here’s a subject for an
Australian version of “The Gleaners.”
In the Kimberleys of W.A. grows a small
grass which produces a minute seed,
gathered by the small red bush ant. Con-
trary to the habit of most other species,
“Look at that, you two. Cant you take a hint ?”
these little fellows work in relays, the
transport gang collecting the harvest and
dumping it at the mouth of the nest
ready for the lumpers to cart below.
Apparently “smoke-ohs” are frequent
among the lumpers, for the transport
section invariably has a considerable
pile of seed waiting. Taking advan-
tage of this, Mrs. Binghi does a con-
tinuous round of nests, commandeering
each growing pile and sweeping it with
a small brush made from a chewed twig
into a little pitchi. Then, having care-
fully blown away any dust, she grinds
her harvest in her hand mill, the resul-
tant flour being baked into not unpalat-
able cakes. Large numbers of these are
made and put into storage —thus in a
measure refuting the oft-repeated yarn
that Binghi is incapable of taking thought
for the morrow.
* * * *
“Waratah”: I also saw that solar halo
(B. 25/12/’35) from Muogamarra Look-
out, above Peat’s Ferry (N.S.W.). It was
my first experience of such a thing in a
life of over 80 years. The rainbow was
complete, the diameter about one-third
of the heavens between the two horizons,
east and west; the cloud formation was
“Sorry, madam—Were not allowed to accept tips.”
of the light Cirrus variety. This beauti-
ful heavenly display lasted about an hour
and a half ; it would appear to have been
of quite local occurrence, for it was not
reported to any N.S.W. meteorological
station.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Though our Maori
roadman trundles his wheelbarrow long
distances to his home every evening, he
is not training for a “Derby.” Recently
his wahine had a visit from the stork,
and the barrow—an iron one —serves as
an excellent and inexpensive bathtub for
young Moko.
“Sandgate”: “Sailor’s” remark that
“a shark will bite at anything, even his
own kind” (B. 25/12/’35), reminds me
of a unique catch I saw in Moreton Bay
(Q.). A 14ft. tiger shark was hooked,
but before it was hauled in it was
attacked by another shark, which took
two huge bites out of its body. A few
minutes later that other shark was
hooked. It was a 15ft. female tiger
shark, and in her stomach were found
intact the two pieces bitten out of the
other shark.
“Double Disc”: An interesting experi-
ment was recently carried out by Beebe,
in America, concerning a shark’s senses
of smell and sight. A twelve-footer from
the Caribbean was captured and placed
in a 50ft.-square concrete tank. After
five days a parcel containing folded
paper and weighted with lead was
dropped gently into it. The shark ignored
the bait. Half an hour later a parcel
identical in size, shape and wrapping, but
containing a portion of freshly caught
fish, was dropped in near the first
package. Immediately there was a vicious
swirl, and the fish parcel vanished before
it hit the bottom. The experiment was
repeated several
times, always with
the same results.
This seems definitely
to prove that the
shark depends upon
its sense of smell to
locate its food.
“Bull-ant Bill”: A
colony of rats any-
where within reach
of a farm homestead
will cost the farmer
at least a fiver a
year. I’ve had har-
ness, boots, clothes,
blankets, even the
missus’s piano, dam-
aged by them, not
to speak of the time
they gnawed through
a pipe of the petrol
lighting plant and
nearly set the house
on fire. Dogs are
perfect fools at find-
ing them —I discov-
ered a family flour-
ishing under a bull-
terrier’s kennel, and
he was a terror on
rats. Most cats pre-
fer something easier
than tackling a rat.
Traps catch males;
females are generally
too cunning to go
near them. Poison
is dangerous with
animals and child-
ren about. A good
way is to block all the burrows
but one, lead a hose from the
car exhaust into it, and hit her up
gently until the whole warren is full
of exhaust gas. Then plug it up and
watch for attempts to reopen the holes.
You need to make sure that none of
the burrows leads into or under the house
unplugged.
“ ’Twala”: That' item about the abo.
women wearing down their teeth chew-
ing fibre (B. 1/1 / ’36) reminds me. A
mounted policeman in South Africa, T
called one day at a Basuto kraal for a
drink of native beer. One of those
splendid young girls for whom the
Basuto race is famous brought me a pot,
and as I hoisted it she sighed heavily—
whether at my Antin-
ous-like beauty or from
indigestion I never
found out. Her breath
was a miasma that
nearly knocked me out of the
saddle. Later I asked an old
hand how a creature of such
superb health and with obvi-
ously perfect teeth could
acquire a breath like an aasvo-
gel. The solution was that the
damsel had been chewing skins
to convert them into the soft
white leather that so many
purchasers of South African
fur carosses have admired.
The skins, leopard, rock-rabbit
or whatnot, are half-rotted in
a covered heap until of the
right consistency. Then the
ladies of the family sit round
a skin and chew at it until it
assumes the consistency and
appearance of white velvet.
* * *
“Sappho Suds”: My friend
the old Chinese storekeeper
lay very ill, and immediately
I saw him I recognised black-
water. The inevitable cousin “Wong”
was in attendance; I suggested he
should take the canoe at once for
the District Medical Officer a few miles
away. Stubbornly he insisted that
he was treating the patient, and could
cure him with “Medicene belong bush
all same Kanaka.” In vain I pleaded.
Three days later a weak but greatly-
improved patient smiled a greeting.
I was amazed at his rapid recovery, and
asked to see the “medicene.” It was a
thin, sweet, almost tasteless fluid, made
by boiling pandanus palm nuts and
coconut root separately, then straining
both fluids and mixing them.
£ * *
“Nightcall”: Those cautious ones who
roam the bush with a small bottle of
permanganate of potash in their pockets
as a cure for snake-bite are warned that
it is valueless once the poison is in the
tissues. Its only value lies in neutralising
surface venom. Therefore the old reme-
dies must be instantly adhered to if loss
of life is to be avoided —namely, the
tourniquet, incision and suction.
$ * * *
“Manah Buleh”: Binghi also believes
that those “yabba yabba” papers can
see. “Hellas’s” contention (B. 1/1 / ’36)
was fully borne out when Paddy Cahill
was shooting buffalo near his station at
Oenpelli (Q.). Running short of car-
tridges he wrote a letter to the home-
stead asking for an extra 20 boxes,
sending two boys to bring them back.
His wife supplied the shells and for-
warded a covering note with them. On
the way back the two abos. extracted a
box, hiding the note behind a tree so
that it would not be able to tell
Paddy of the theft. They retrieved it
and bore it to Paddy, who extracted a re-
luctant confession. Two disconsolate
abos. were more than ever convinced
of the “strange pfeller magic” of the
yabba paper that could see even though
it was hidden from sight.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: I can confirm “Spee-
waa’s” long-distance perception of burn-
ing gum-leaves (B. 4/12/’35). Exiled
down at Cocos Island, over 15.00 miles
from the nearest Australian coastline, we
always knew when there were bushfires
in W.A. owing to the prevailing winds
bearing the unmistakable scent of the
burning gums. There was not the slight-
est doubt where the perfume came from,
and on evenings when it was in evidence
homesick Australians patrolled the beach.
* * * *
“Speewaa”: Lecturer E. S. Hanks
told the Vic. Bird Observers’ Club that
the worst injury the abos. of Central
Australia suffered was their insanitary
condition, owing to the policy of forcing
them to wear clothes. The nig. with
the loincloth or less was generally healthy,
while his brother, togged out in cast-off
clothing of Europeans, was on the path
to the grave. Why the authorities insist
on more than the loincloth, even in
settlements, is inexplicable. The rule
has long been abolished in most of the
missionary-run islands of the Pacific.
One returned cleric not so long ago
boasted at a Sydney meeting that “there
wasn’t as much as a figleaf in the whole
island.”
THE SAGA OF FARM 1590.
“I want to write a saga on the lines of .
How should 1 go about it?”— Plaintive inquiry
from Farm 1590, Irrigation Settlement.
1 want to write a saga-sort of story
That spans the generations or an age;
Not just the blaze of love and death or glory,
But something searching History’s living page,
Or —here perhaps to change the mental figure —•
To move, like Time, majestically slow.
And paint the march of life (yet fuller, bigger).
But here I’m stuck on Farm One-five-nine-
owe.
You see, the same as prisoners we’re num-
bered,
Or beauty queens, or wethers in a pen;
To closer settlement we’re closely lumbered,
And personality counts out at ten.
I try to get the view of neighbor Scotty
Across the fence about this whim of mine;
He taps his head to signify I’m dotty.
The fact is he is “Farm 1-5-8-9.”
He asks what works beneath my cranium cover,
If my orange-trees betray the collar-rot,
What’s brought the flocks of crane and spur-
wing plover,
If watering will burst the apricot,
If I think those who rule the ’Bidgee’s flowing
Are up to some new game or their old
tricks,
Whether I’ve seen how lucerne flea is show-
ing .. .
And somehow fleas and sagas do not mix.
My neighbor on the other side is placid;
He says, “Don’t have a worry on your mind;
The Government is there to put the acid
On every blessed pest that we can find.
In duty bound our lot they always eases;
They’ve got some sort of poison, trap or
gun
For all them saga blights an’ such diseases.”
A philosopher is Farm 1-5-9-1.
Another well-read, knowledgeable fellow
Says, “You’re ambitious, Jimmy, I do think!
But let her go, don’t show the tint of yellow;
Paper is very cheap, and so is ink.
You’ll have to read up all the printed know-
ledge
In libraries and archives, as you know,
Study the methods taught in school and col-
lege
And weed the truth from falsehood as you
go.
“And after that you resolutely scatter
The formulas on which most stories wait.
A saga’s based on legend and such matter.
With manners, dress and speech appropriate.
You can’t beat legend out with maul or
hammer,
Or start it with our channel water’s flow;
You cultivate a mellow, old-time glamor.
And does that sprout on Farm 1-5-9-0?”
I suppose we all must keep our rank and
station;
It’s hard on those Ambition makes its sport;
I’ve only left my own imagination,
Though that’s too often shy when I pay
court.
Some distant day when time and tide invite it,
And things despised to their fruition grow,
1, or some unborn genius, may write it:
The saga due to Farm 1-5-9-0.
S.A.
BILL O'C.


s
r
E F FI
■_- : -- "~
A NATIONAL
WIRELESS
O RGAN I SAT IO N
V
Jl EAR by year the
latest wireless communication facilities
have been made available to the public
by A.W.A.
The Company established and to-day
operates the Beam Wireless Telegraph
Service, Trans-Ocean Wireless Tele-
phone, and the Beam Picturegram Ser-
vice between Australia and overseas.
A.W.A. also operates the Australian
Coastal Radio Service and the Pacific
Island Services in New Guinea, Papua
and Fiji.
For more than 22 years wireless services
have been conducted on ships at sea for
the safety of life and for the interchange
of public wireless telegrams between
ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the
all-important factors that have resulted
in giving the public satisfactory com-
munication services. To this end every
new phase of wireless has been scientifi-
cally investigated and developed.
The Company invites
enquiries in respect
to any of its services.
An illustrated booklet,
setting out the Com-
pany’s activities and
services will be sent
post free on applica-
tion to the Company’s
Offices at 47 York
Street , Sydney , and
167-9 Queen Street ,
Melbourne.
p
Lis*:
AMALGAMATED Wipe i ESSjA'siA) LTD
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


m
era
RonD
The R-an-D Diesel has plenty
or power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details jrom any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADfc IN QUEENSLAAI^^^^
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
A - U Y ~ - s uA/.L "-I*
~
m
UNDERWEAR
~JUxt ■£> yyu/AeS#-
B.V.D \43t:
Coot as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
THE
fob
mm
TR M>t
BtS'
*> M
n
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
John Hcincj
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd • SYDNEY'
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne,, Adelaide,. Pertly
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Why Wools Sell Badly.
“Murrawong”: Any broker’s floor
will supply an explanation to those
people who complain that they cannot
understand why So-and-so’s wool
brought a better price than theirs when
their sheep are practically the same. Ad-
mittedly there are instances where a bit
of sparring between buyers has resulted
in an otherwise unaccountable margin
of pence between similar lines, but in
most cases the answer is to be found in
bale contents.
Bad packing—blending of wools of
low value with a better quality—does not
delude the buyer. He either leaves the
lot to the repackers or lowers his price
to allow for the sorting of the mixture
and probable loss on resale of out-sorts.
The man who bales his locks and
sweepings full of bulky pieces and brands
the line “pieces” deludes only himself
and not the buyer, who values what he
sees, without worrying himself unduly
about descriptions.
Some people are under the impression
that good bellies, skirted of fribs, may
be blended with broken and branded as
such. Not only the buyer, but anyone
with any wool sense who passes along
the row, spots the belly wools immedi-
ately.
The price of broken ranges from 2d.
to 6d. per pound more than that of
bellies on the present market. The buyer
is neither a fool nor a philanthropist,
and, if he does decide to bid for the
line, he must protect himself by allow-
ing for the maximum percentage of
bellies in the lot. It is the owner who
pays for the experiment.
Evidences of “topping” are still to be
seen, but buyers are seldom taken in.
On the showfloor the top fleeces are
invariably dragged out on the floor, and
if the buyer is rendered suspicious he
will pull half the contents of the bale
out as well. After the sale, when he
draws samples of the lot it will be from
the middle or low down in the bale, and
if these show sufficient discrepancy the
buyer may cancel the sale.
The clips of two brothers —neighbors
recently showed the value of some
classing. The first clip was reasonably
well got up, and brought full market
value. Number Two’s top line held
widely varying types—rough 64’s carrying
condition with a length of inches,
light stylish 66’s, and short, beady-tipped
74’s barely 2 inches long. The latter’s
best price came from his second line of
fleece. It was 2|d. short of his brother’s,
and his average was a shade over 3d.
per pound less.
Pink-eye Treatment.
“Lion”: The best form of “treatment”
is prevention, which is not easy. The
infection is often found in old sheep-
yards or dipping-yards and around old
buddings. Destroy if possible, and keep
the rubbish away and the dust down.
Dust carries as many germs - as any-
thing. We use a neighbor’s dip, and
have suffered each year we have dipped.
Sand and water made us practically free
this year for the first time.
Avoid buying infected sheep, however
cheap. The loss in condition and wool
to the rest of your sheep that contract
the disease make it a dear buy.
Sheep with p.-e. should be kept near
plenty of water, out of grass-seedy pad-
docks at all costs and then left alone.
We have found by years of experience
that no remedy compares with leaving
alone. There is more damage done by
mustering sheep and knocking them
about than by the disease itself.
Very seldom do sheep treated on our
plan lose their sight. Our loss was one-
tenth per cent, last year. The stock cer-
tainly lose condition, but not as much
as by repeated musterings for artificial
treatment. They mustn’t stray from
water, however.
Imported Stud Stock.
“Ghanam”: The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, rushing to aid the importers of
stud stock, does not go as far as it might,
apparently through lack of knowledge.
Under the arrangement approved, the
Commonwealth and State Governments
and the Commonwealth Bank will each
find one-fifth of the importation charges
exceeding the actual cost of the animal.
Cattle, sheep, goats and pigs are to be
included, and they must have a stud
society’s certificate of registration. The
shipping companies have agreed that they
will charge merely out-of-pocket ex-
penses, which have been placed upon a
flat rate of £3l 10s. for a cow, 10 guineas
for sheep and milch goats and six guineas
for pigs, excluding pens. Thus a cow
may now be imported at a freight-rate
to the buyer of £l2, plus two-fifths of
the cost of pens, quarantine, handling,
etc. The scheme will be available only
to breeders, who will be required to keep
an animal for two years after import.
This is a great advance, but care will
have to be taken —if it can be taken
under such a scheme—that it does not
damage rather than improve the stan-
dard of Australian stock.
In beef cattle, for instance, the justi-
fication for import is in keeping animals
true to type and in line as to size, con-
formation, nature of flesh, etc., with the
best of the English market. This can
be achieved only by encouraging the
regular importation of the best of the
year’s British bulls, and, with Argentine
competition, the prices of these are
beyond the means of the ordinary small
importer.
One bull of the type of the Hordern
Masterkey or Doune Monarch, or of the
Reynolds Eyton Herefords, of Hobart-
ville (N.S.W.), is worth 100 medium-
quality bulls.
The danger of the Government scheme
is that it may encourage the importation
of a class of stock which can very well be
bred here, while it gives no special in-
centive to encourage the man who is pre-
pared to import the £4OOO bull and dis-
tribute his produce at prices within the
reach of the average stud-breeder, as
Anthony Hordern and others have done
for years.
There should be safeguards. Aus-
tralia wants nothing but the best.
Cattle Blackleg.
“J. Want”: It is a disease of young
stock —from four to 18 months is the
danger period. And the better the con-
dition of the stock the worse they are
likely to be infected.
The disease is deep-seated, and its
spores are difficult to eradicate, either
chemically or otherwise. Temperature
has little effect on them.
The spores infest the soil, and favor
swampy ground and damp, low-lying
pastures. Animals pick them up with
feed or water. One day, without show-
ing preliminary symptoms, those animals
may be found dead. Where indications
do appear they generally consist of loss
of appetite, the ceasing of rumination,
high temperature, lameness and a pecu-
liar swelling which appears in the neck,
shoulder, chest or loin muscles—at first
feverish to the touch and painful, then
cold and numb. There is no mistaking
a blackleg swelling when it has advanced
a little. As the hand passes over it, it
gives out a peculiar rustling sound,
caused by the gas which it contains.
It is common for the disease to run
its whole course in 12 hours, but it may
extend to 48 hours.
Treatment is waste of time, and pre-
vention is only a matter of regular pre-
cautions. Avoid pastures which show
signs of infection. Keep all paddocks
well drained and clean. Burn off infected
paddocks if they will burn, and with
them any infected corpses.
Vaccination is effective. It should be
done before calves reach four months
old. The Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories prepare a vaccine which may be
had through local stock inspectors. Any
farmer can do the operation, which con-
sists merely in injecting the dose under
the skin.
Clip the hair round the spot to be
operated on and clean it with iodine or
methylated spirits. Then shove the hypo-
dermic in firmly but gently, and see that
the whole dose goes in.
The Commonwealth’s vaccine is safe
from all points of view. It contains no
live organisms, and it inoculates for the
whole of the danger period.
Strawberry’s Tipple.
“Wissenschaft”: Apparently Uncle
Sam is as inquisitive about Strawberry’s
thirst as is “Wundi” (B. 18/12/’35).
Results obtained at the Idaho Agricul-
tural Experimental Station, and reported
in the “Journal of Dairy Science,”
showed that the total water (water in
food + free water drunk) required by
calves was approximately 701 b. at 1
week, 1201 b. at 10 weeks, 2001 b. at 16
weeks and 2501 b. at 21 weeks. It
averaged out at about 601 b. per cwt.
body weight.
Strawberry herself required 1021 b. per
day when dry, 1401 b. for a medium-
production period (301 b. milk) and 2301 b.
for a high-production period (821 b. milk).
These figures, less the amount of water
in the feed, give the free water drunk.
The total water per hundred pounds
body weight was the same (6.21 b.)
whether the cows were producing or
not, provided the water in the milk was
subtracted and the same amount of
dry matter was ingested. The cows were
Friesians.
The Horse’s Hoof.
“Mimosa”: The shock-absorber in
the horse’s hoof is the frog, yet often
one sees large slices cut off this part,
not only on top, but on both sides. This
helps to throw the animal’s weight on
the solid horn at the heels.
The frog is composed of elastic tissue,
and immediately above it is a pad of
toughened fatty tissue. On each side is
a strong elastic cartilage. With a well-
developed frog left in a natural state, all
these compressible structures help to
minimise concussion when the hoof
strikes the ground.
With hard, slippery bitumen roads a
well-developed frog is necessary, and in
no way should it be interfered with.
Only in surgical cases should a knife
be applied to the sole of the foot. It is
a protection to the very delicate and
highly vascular and sensitive structures
inside the hoof. It keeps the walls open
and prevents heel contraction. Similar
action is also performed by the “bars,”
which should never be cut away in a
healthy foot.
The only part of a properly-formed
hoof on which the knife and rasp
should be used is the actual bearing
surface of the wall. If overgrown,
this should be lowered from below.
Appearance after shoeing may be im-
proved by drawing the rasp around it
just above the shoe, but on no account
should the hard, impervious outer layer
of horn be removed from the wall. The
more hoof left to Nature, the better.
Trees Score Again.
“Bogaduck”: Unusually hot, strong
north winds in spring damaged many
crops in S.A. In some cases oats was
so badly shaken that the ground was
thick with fallen grain. The same thing
was noticed when wheat was being
judged for the State crop competition.
But a judge mentions one crop in which
“hardly any grain had been shaken, as
it was well protected by belts of trees.”
A farmer who does believe in the
value of belts of timber made an interest-
ing experiment during one of these hot
winds. He hung a thermometer in the
shade of a post on the southern side of
a protecting belt of red-gum saplings. It
registered 84deg., although it was a
hundred yards from the trees. Placed
an equal distance to the north of the
belt of timber, and in the shade of
another post, it recorded 90deg. Merely
by passing through a 50yd.-wide belt
of thick green timber, the air had been
cooled off to the extent of 6deg. —and
a few degrees can make a big difference
to a crop during ripening.
At the same time, the earth on the
headlands was turned over a hundred
yards on each side of the timber. The
soil on the sheltered side was moist four
inches from the surface. On the north, it
was dry to a depth of nearly seven.
On the same farm there are two dams,
which used to dry out within a few days
of each other. The bank of one was
planted thickly with willows a few years
ago ; to-day the willows screen in the
water completely, keeping it cool and
checking evaporation. This dam has
never since gone dry, but the other is
only a pan of caked mud in the late
summer.
A gnarled red-gum with a burnt-out
trunk was felled near Naracoorte (S.A.)
last spring. Within the hollow were
found 12 swallow nests, all with eggs or
young in them. Swallows live entirely
on insects, and these birds often build
their nests inside hollows, as do other
pest-catchers. The wisdom of leaving
one or two old trees with hollow trunks
in every paddock will be apparent.
Usually these are destroyed and the
young ones spared. Young, solid-trunked
trees provide little or no shelter for the
nests of the most useful of all birds.
And when their young are being fed the
swallows kill more insects than at any
other time of the year. If you watch the
parent birds you will see that they do
most of their insect-catching close to
the nest.
Ergotised Paspalum.
“E.H.M.”: For the first time in the
history of paspalum on the Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) the pastures are badly
{Continued on page 24.)


W/zen two leathers
Order a tin of Dale’s English Dubbin, used
for preserving all leather goods. It makes your
Working Boots last twice as long. Price, 2/6.
both tough but pliable,
are moulded on a com-
fortable Last, and
turned into a boot by
a workman skilled at
his craft, the finished
Boot will be strong,
soft and extremely
comfortable.
How better can we
describe this Abbey
Riding Boot. Made in
Black and Brown Calf,
in full and half sizes.
Price 27/6
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
224 PITT STREET,
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
WA 13.
1 . w c
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
<1
<?
I
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
Canadian Bookies
On the C.P.R. route Home
To see the best of the Cana-
dian Rockies, visit Banff.
Bracing climate, magnificent
scenery, a palatial Hotel . . .
excellent cuisine, countless
social attractions. Rates
surprisingly moderate.
The pleasures of Banff can
only be reached via the
C.P.R. route to England.
Write for illustrated litera-
ture and details.
Any Tourist Hooking: Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Qreatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
l3/35
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis . ... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, «/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
A FEAST OF FUN
“The Great Book of Humor”
768 Pages—so Masterpieces of Humor by 50
World-famous Authors. Wodehouse, Priestley,
Milne, Jacobs, Chesterton, Leacock, etc., etc.
Special Concession Offer to Readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue.
On Sale All Newsagents—PßlCE 6d.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
PIUM PMOR’OI'ARD
i
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extva Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for |in„ fin. and Jin,
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITJKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
f 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory • 140/-
AU post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, Jin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keDt in order for two
rears free of charge.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
affected with ergot, owing to the para-
sitic fungus Clavaceps paspali.
Disease spores are transferred to the
healthy seed heads by insects, which
feed on the gummy exudations. Stock
feeding on pastures so diseased are
likely to become affected in various ways,
such as abortion in pregnant animals,
colic, constipation and numerous other
ailments. Horses and poultry are more
liable to become ergotised than other
stock, because of their partiality for the
seed itself. Cattle rarely eat the seed
or seed stalks, preferring the “flag” or
broad-leaf grass.
Harvesting, as a result of its disease,
has been made difficult by the “gum,”
which sticks to the harvesters’ hand’s,
making it almost impossible to separate
the seed from the stalks, and a short-
age of supplies is possible.
Germination tests of seed taken from
ergotised paddocks have proved to be
up to standard, so buyers who intend
buying seed need have no fear about its
growing qualities.
A Word for Super.
“Cal Verley”: Superphosphate must
continue to be the cocky’s mainstay. But
its popularity fluctuates.
Fruit-growers trying organic manures
for the first time saw a response that
they had not been used to from straight
super., and they concluded that organic
manures were better than chemical fer-
tilisers. Actually, what they had wit-
nessed was the influence of the nitrogen
in the organic manure.
Nitro-super. was on —and off—the
market many years ago, and progressive
cerealists deplored its passing. Farmers
in the hay and barley areas have been
shown by the experimental work of the
Waite Institute and the Melbourne Uni-
versity that nitrogen can be used very
profitably on oats for hay and grain and
on barley, and any sharp upward move-
ment in the prices of these would see a
big tonnage of nitrogen used. More
especially is this the case in S. Victoria,
Yorke Peninsula, the Adelaide plains
(S.A.) and in the Riverina.
The big “news” of the fixation of
atmospheric nitrogen came to the non-
technical world through the destructive
explosion at Oppau, Germany, in 1921,
and the advent of the big British air
nitrogen plant near Middlesborough
some few years ago, gave, from the Aus-
tralian standpoint at any rate, a false
valuation to nitrogen. Many people
rushed to the conclusion that something
better than super, had been found. It
was thought that the “new” nitrogen was
going to revolutionise farming ; but, in-
stead of an alternative to super., nitro-
gen is supplementary or complementary.
As such it will long remain, except in the
sugar industry.
Japanese Millet.
“Hortus”: Now is a good time to
plant this crop in N.S.W. For those who
want to avoid Sudan-grass poisoning it
is a splendid substitute.
Don’t worry too much about soil. Of
course millet thrives best on rich alluvial
flats. Any land producing 40 or more
bushels of maize to the acre will do
admirably, even if a crop has recently
been taken from it.
Some recommend drilling the seed as
against the usual method of broadcast-
ing. The reason is easy to follow. Less
seed is needed. If soil cakes, it can be
cultivated between the rows to conserve
moisture. Choose a time, if possible,
after rain. A moist bed gives the seed
a good start. About 81b. to 121 b. per
acre is a fair quota, but it all depends
on the soil.
If there is a fodder shortage it is best
to sow continuously every two or three
weeks. This cannot be done successfully
unless there is enough warmth and mois-
ture to germinate the seed. Japanese
millet is a surface-feeder. So, before
sowing, it is good to harrow in suoer.
at the rate of lcwt. per acre. Japanese
millet is a quick grower. Hence its value
as a summer catch-crop. It can be taken
off early enough to admit of the ground
being prepared for autumn-sown crops.
The seed can be broadcast in this case,
and disced or spring-tooth-cultivated
into the ground.
The crop is hardy. It is most nutritious.
It is available at a time when the spring
grasses may have failed and other green
fodders are scarce. It is excellent for
grazing for both sheep and cattle. It
has no periodical poisonous qualities,
like sorghum. It can be fed when quite
young.
But don’t be too eager to feed off
young millet. Wait until the plants are
at least six inches high. After it has
been well eaten down, take off the stock
until another growth is made—it takes
only a matter of days under normal con-
ditions.
“Jumbuck”: Drafting-races of the
“open-work” type cause unnecessary
delay. Sheep can’t be expected to run
well when netting or spacings between
rails allow them to see through on either
side. Where stubs or close-fitting rails
are not in use, troubles can easily be
overcome by closing in the race with
sheet-iron nailed firmly outside.
“Cuchulain”: I think “Sheepo” (B.
1/1 /’36) is out in his reckoning that
possibly less than 25 p.c. of graziers age-
mark their sheep. In my district I don’t
know of a single breeder or station of
any consequence who would neglect
such a job, though many small men
doubtlessly are careless or don’t realise
the benefits received thereby. Age-
marking entails very little extra time and
labor, so there are no objections to the
practice.
“Duggai”: Even that Bavarian sow
with a litter of 24 quoted by “J.W.” (B.
8/1/’36) is not a record. James Bald-
hood, of Warwick (Q.), had a sow that
produced 65 piglets in three litters in
one year—2s, 21 and 19. In ten years
this proud mother had 380 offspring.
“Bates”: In 1932 encouraging results
were obtained in S’Africa in feeding
sulphur to sheep. It was claimed that
a heavier and better fleece was grown,
and that the sheep were in better condi-
tion. Attempts—one by the C.S.I.R.—
were made in Australia to repeat the
S’African success. Next the S’Africans
tried to repeat their own work. Sulphur
was fed to six groups of sheep, each in
a different form, and a seventh group
was used as a control. No improvement
of significance was obtained in wool
quality, fleece weight or body weight.
Another interesting piece of work is also
recorded on the value of iodine. Potas-
sium iodide was fed as a lick component.
No benefit was proved, and there was
abortion among pregnant ewes on the
ration.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is stringhall in horses ? (2) How
does it affect them? (3) Cause? (4) Cure, if
any ? (5) May a sire or mare transmit it to
their offspring ? —9922.
(1) and (2) Stringhalt (or springhalt) is a
condition in the horse characterised by a
sudden flexion of one or both hind limbs.
Sometimes the foot may be raised as high as
the abdomen. The flexion is excited by sudden
movements, and is especially marked on back-
ing the animal and on the morning after a
hard day’s work. (3) There are two types —
( a ) true stringhalt, (b) Australian or false string-
halt. The causes of the former is unknown.
The latter is thought to be due to feeding on
certain plants such as the common dandelion.
(4) There is no cure for true stringhalt. Cases
of Australian stringhalt will recover when not
badly affected if removed from the pastures
in which the causal plant grows. (5) True
stringhalt is regarded. as hereditary, and may
be transmitted through either sire or dam.
Australian stringhalt is not hereditary.
Si * * *
(1) Spinning quality of sample of wool sub-
mitted ? Could it be called a super type ? (2)
What would be the approx. Sydney value of
a line of this type in November last ? It was
lightly skirted, even and free, bellies and locks,
of course, out. (3) Would it be advisable to
heavily skirt wool of this type, practically free
and grown on fairly clean country {Harden,
N.S.W.) ?—33.
(1) Sample forwarded is a warp 66’s. It lacks
the style required for a super type. (2) Sample
is too small to give definite yield, but Sydney
value of a line of this type last November
would be 18fd. to 19Id. (3) No. Fleeces
should be skirted free of burr and seed. If
necks show roughness or variation of quality
on folds, these should be skirted off.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
*
II
m
«Sf'n;|
m
m
II
■
m
111
II
m
an 818 s
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
All the Australian capitals are in the
same bloat.
•h •b *h
Nothing to Crow About.
“In England roosters start to crow at day-
break, but in this country they begin at mid-
night.’’—Archbishop Wand.
I can agree with his Grace. I struck
the same trouble with my birds.
I tried keeping them awake until
about nine o’clock in order to make
them sleepy enough to snooze through
till daybreak, but I soon got sick of
chasing them off their perches for hours
on end. Then I tried an electrically-
controlled gramophone record which
started at midnight and continued till
sunrise, roaring every five minutes “Shut
up and get to sleep!” It acted for a
while, but one day the mechanism went
wrong. I discovered the reason the fol-
lowing Christmas, when I found seven
small wheels and a governor in the craw
of one of the roosters.
The nocturnal crowing kept up, and
when the neighbors started to get a
bit too nasty and a Nuisances Inspector
came down I tried something desperate.
I cut some square pieces of leather
with slits in the centre and pushed them
on to the beaks of the birds. I en-
joyed the first decent night’s sleep I’d
had in months. But the next morning
the fowls were all gone. Pinched! In
cold blood, too, for the damned birds
couldn’t squawk out to give me the oil.
I’d trapped myself all right.
I remember telling someone about
my intended scheme, but I can’t think
who. I wish I could !
Quayeau.
“The aeroplanes would have a maximum
speed of 145 miles per annum.”
—Geelong paper.
And how about Leap Year?
v *l* -I* *l-
- the burglars rifled my flat the only
thing that they didn’t take was the rouge pot.”
—Actress to reporter.
Those burglars were gentlemen! They
left her something to put on so that she
wouldn’t be found quite naked.
v *!• -I* -I-
Almost Perfect.
“A circus performer can be a good husband,
the same as anyone else.”
—Witness in divorce case.
A combination of all circus performers
would probably be the model husband.
What cook would not rejoice to have a
husband who was a sword-swallower or
a fire-eater? If he were also a juggler
who could clear the table for her, and
a weight-lifter who could carry as many
parcels as she wanted, he would be
almost ideal. An invisible man would be
very handy if he would guarantee to
make himself and his old clothes invisible
as soon as visitors arrived for afternoon-
tea. But, after all, what use would such
a man be unless he were the cashier of
the circus, too?
Ced.
* * * *
“ ‘A woman can’t get a job without clothes,’
says a leading feminist.”
What about an artists’ model?
“He could see that the letters had been left
on the gate.” —“Telegraph
By the post marks?
Subdividing Koshkosh.
“The ‘S. M. Herald’ says that a man who
has trained his mind in a business could find
some employment for it even if cast on a
desert island.”
Undoubtedly. That’s what I discovered
when the s.s. Tincan foundered, and, the
sole survivor, I was cast upon the shore
of the Island of Koshkosh.
As a trained real-estate man, I knew
it was low-grade land. Still, that did
not matter to me. Most of it could be
boomed as “superb water frontages”;
the rest was “high land, overlooking
ocean ; extensive views.”
I proceeded to draw up the plans of
the subdivision, showing, of course, the
“proposed railway,” “proposed public
hall” and “proposed baths,” and making
proper provision for public reserves.
Putting up the notice-board advertis-
ing the sale, as well as drawing the plans,
gave me pleasant occupation for weeks.
The sale might have languished if I, as
auctioneer, had not accepted some
spirited competitive bidding from myself.
I became, as a speculator, the owner of
some of the best lots; the rest were
passed in for private treaty.
“Come an' ’ave a drink with Tom. He's just cele-
bratin' 'is recovery.”
“ Wot? An me a gravedigger on half-time?”
As Koshkosh was distant as the fly
crows some 1001| miles from the nearest
pub, which lies on the Australian coast
due n.-e. by s.-w., I sponsored an agita-
tion for a pub. That allowed me to add
“Proposed up-to-date hotel” to my plans
in time for the second sale.
All this provided such agreeable occu-
pation for my mind that, when the
H.M.A.S. Potterabout arrived to take
me off, just as I was holding my twenty-
third sale, I asked them to call back in
three months’ time. They took me away
forcibly.
Nobody can say that, cast on a desert
island, I failed to find employment for
my trained mind.
H. M.
*l* 'l* *l* 4*
Frustration.
Ivan Avvalaff was always making mis-
takes. He made so many at school that
he developed corns on his hands through
being caned.
In business, his flair for clerical errors
was amazing. He never lasted more than
two weeks in any job.
He fell in love with Lolita. That was
a mistake in itself. And when she had
all her teeth extracted it was certainly
very tactless to present her with a box
of hard caramels.
She found herself another. Ivan took
it to heart and bought a revolver.
“It will be a double tragedy! ” he said
dramatically. Five minutes later he stood
in her room. She shrieked as he pulled
the revolver out of his hip pocket. But
even at that vital juncture his old fail-
ing recurred.
Although he had every intention of
killing her as well, he made the fatal
mistake of shooting himself first.
T. W. N.
History of the Haggis.
History records that the first known
haggis was concocted by the great patriot
and oatmeal fancier Angus McWhang-
doodle. In the process of attempting to
unite the Piets and Scots he was enter-
taining the Pictish monarch McMalcolm
the Mangier.
A sheep had died the week before.
Angus mashed up the heart, liver,
lights and lungs with burgoo, whisky,
suet, salt, pepper, onions, lemon, Scotch
thistles and more whisky, sewing the lot
up in an old bagpipe and boiling it for
three hours. He served it with well-
watered whisky. This insult stuck in
McMalcolm’s gizzard, as did the haggis,
and, demanding to know why Angus had
Piet on him, he fell upon the Scot, prick-
ing him to death with his hairy knees.
The survivors of the feast broke out in
boils, and even to this day a Highland
Gathering and a haggis are closely re-
lated. But the ill-fated McWhangdoodle
had that day lighted a torch from burn-
ing stomachs which was destined never
to be extinguished.
In the feuds which preceded the found-
ing of the popular “Free” Church, the
haggis played an important part. Andrew
McHaddock preached the doctrine that
nobody could be damned for right-think-
ing ; his opponent, Duncan the Dag,
maintained that everybody could be
damned. Aghast at this heresy, Angus
had Duncan seized
and put in close con-
finement on a diet
of haggis and water.
After a month of
this torture Dun-
can’s mind became
unhinged, and he
committed suicide
by getting a second
helping.
The custom of
playing the bagpipes
whilst masticating
haggis dates from
Robert the Bruce’s
time. During the
feasts in celebration
of Ban n o c kburn
Bruce noticed that
the mellow influ-
ence of fiery moun-
tain dew was not
sufficient to drown
the misery of his
followers as they
dutifully tackled
their haggis. He
ordered the pipers
to play Scottish
reels, based on the
principle that one
poison counteracts
another. The agony
of listening to the
bagpipes produced a
mental torpor
wherein the eating
of the haggis was
scarcely noticed.
Burns, who ironi-
cally referred to the
haggis as “the great chieftain o’ the
puddin’ race,” penned his noble lines
during an attack of indigestion follow-
ing his one —and only—feed of it:
Na Scots can hae wi’ Wallace bled;
The puir cows were on haggis fed,
An’ sae they had na bluid to shed,
Na bluidy drap.
Authorities to-day agree that haggises
aren’t what they were. And it’s just as
well.
S. W. K.
4»
“This will be converted into 3 per cent,
securities, to be issued at 951 and redeemable,
optionally, 1055-58.’ ’ —‘' Telegraph. ’ ’
It’s to be hoped they are redeemed
before William the Conqueror comes
along and repudiates the lot.
“The new ‘social’ telegram forms are now
available, and the Post Office expects that hey
will be much in demand.”— “Sun.”
Naturally, seeing that “Hey!” is one
of our most popular forms of greeting.
Love-toper’s Triumph.
Intoxicating are your sighs,
Your laugh’s a nectar rich and rare
One glance into your sparkling eyes
And lam half-seas over. Care,
Dissatisfaction, pain and such
1 drown in gladness when you’re near:
In short, l take a drop too much
Of love when wooing you, my dear.
Befuddled by your charm divine,
I’m groggy on a single kiss.
Your touch affects me, too, like wine,
Your fragrance makes me drunk with
bliss.
“Well, why not wed me?" you demand;
“Why beat about the bush; why
hedge ?”
Ah, dearest Heart, please understand,
I thought ’twas best to sign the pledge!
P. O. M. C.
A House Cow.
“Wanted to buy: one house cow; Jersey
preferred.—‘X.’ ” —Daily paper ad.
Of course, to each his choice, but if
“X” takes my advice he’ll have nothing
to do with house cows. Let him buy a
boa-constrictor and make a pet of that,
or a Bengal tiger and lead that round
on a string. Or let him drag the darkest
deeps of the depthless ocean and lure
from its hiding-place a giant decapod or
a mighty ore; let him take his catch
home and keep it in the bathroom for
the amusement of his family or friends.
At the worst he can only lose his life.
But if he once takes into his abode a
house cow, then nothing is safe or
sacred.
We had one once. Uncle Timothy won
it in a raffle. He was under the impres-
sion that the prize was two dozen of
beer, but he must have bought the wrong
ticket.
“We’ll keep it in the fowlyard,” said
Aunt Agatha. Uncle Timothy snorted.
“It’s a house cow, I tell you.”
Argument was useless. He insisted on
taking Daisy, as he called her, into his
bedroom.
Aunt Agatha, a very practical woman,
telephoned for a new vacuum-cleaner,
and Uncle Peter, also practical, went out
and bought a milking-stool and a bucket.
We had a very disturbed night. The
cow sounded homesick. Uncle Timothy
is a very heavy sleeper and didn’t notice
anything amiss, but by morning Daisy
had broken the window-pane and the
mirror. She had also'eaten two blankets,
a sheet, two towels, Uncle Timothy’s best
pants, his toothpaste and a packet of
razor blades. She was now quietly sleep-
ing in the loughboy.
Uncle T. went off to ring up a glazier,
and Uncle Peter said he’d milk Daisy.
His efforts were fruitless, or, rather, milk-
less. We found out later that she was
a very young and inexperienced cow.
We put her in the attic and went down
to breakfast. A few minutes later loud
shrieks attracted us to the bathroom.
Daisy had escaped and had stepped into
the bath with Cousin Hetty.
Cousin Hetty had gone to bed early,
and, being rather deaf, was unaware of
the addition to the family. Having
shrieked for help, she was quite embar-
rassed when it arrived. She grabbed her
toothbrush and ran. Daisy, apparently not
wanting to bathe alone, stepped out of
the bath rather awkwardly, upsetting it.
She smashed the bath-heater, backed out
and cannoned into Aunt Agatha, knock-
ing her downstairs, and cantered along
the passage just in time to smash the new
pane of glass that the glazier was carry-
ing into Uncle T.’s room.
We unearthed her in the drawing-
room, lounging on the chesterfield. She
sprang up alertly and leapt on to the
piano, and began pelting us with bric-a-
brac and objets d’art. We beat a retreat
and went to the kitchen to talk things
over.
Presently in rushed Cousin Hetty.
“Quick! She’s in Gran’s room.”
We dashed to the rescue and poured
into Gran’s room.
Granny was sitting up in bed stroking
Daisy’s nose, while the latter stood
docilely by with a gentle, fawnlike look
in her eyes.
“Did they frighten ye, darlint?” Gran
was consoling her. “Ye poor little baste.
Niver mind. Gran’ll be after takin’ care
o’ ye.”
When Gran went to sleep we managed
to get Daisy away. Uncle Timothy
swapped her with a man for a bowl of
goldfish.
No more house cows for us.
JASBY.


A Fine Serial Story of Life in Fiji:—
ISLAND GERITAGE
[Author’s Note. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person .]
D dD_QJISTr irauce ID d
BY ALISON SMITH
Chapter VI. —( Continued ).
QUIET, decorous, happy days. Ruve was at
school in the first fervor of her first friend-
ship with a girl. Blue-frocked, her fair hair
in a prim pigtail, she travelled over in the dingy old
ferry and caught a tram that set her down almost at
the gate of an old-fashioned, rambling white house
girdled with many trees. Kitty Kent was her friend—
a brown-eyed, brown-haired bunch of mischief. They
wandered together, their arms interlinked, with heads
close together, under the pepper-trees in the school
gardens. Confidences. Thrilling secrets. She went to
Kitty’s for tea.
Quite suddenly Dick’s mother died. Her heart
was weak ; she had been overworking. The collapse
had come all in a moment.
“Poor boy! Poor boy!” Aunt Ellice cried, her
blue eyes filling with tears. “He thought so much of
her —that fine little lad.”
“Decent little beggar!” said her husband. “Look
in and see if you can do anything. He’ll want a
friend.”
Ruve, listening, felt her memory swing back to a
house half in dimness and a shaft of light. Heard
the island tongue, and saw Fani rocking herself like
a figure of grief. The little motionless figure. That
was Death, silence and coldness. Flora’s hysterical
laughter was pealing in her memory. Death —and
Dick’s mother, who would never have the white-walled
house with its green roof and its pleasant trees. She
began to cry.
The little narrow hall was choky-dark, and there
was a queer, fusty smell in it like the smell of old,
long-worn, heavy coats of laboring men. They hung
there ; and from the kitchen came an odor of cabbage-
water. Outside, the jocund morning danced on the
water. Mrs. Moraway, her gold, luxuriant hair that
was by itself pure beauty curling and fluffing about
her florid, perspiring face, opened a door noiselessly.
“She’s there, poor dear! I laid her out lovely. And
the boy breaking his heart beside ’er. I can’t do
nothing with him.”
Margery lay very small and white on the crazy
iron bedstead. Her thin face had lost its haggard
look ; she seemed, lying there, to be visibly younger.
You saw the girl Margery; and, looking closer, saw
lines on the quiet face that should never have been
there. She looked defiant and peaceful at once, and
very pitiful. The needle-pricked hands had been
crossed by Mrs. Moraway on the thin breast in an
attitude that Margery would never herself have taken
in life. By the bedside Dick knelt, still shaking with
long sobs, his arms flung out desperately over her
still coldness.
“Dick, my poor Dick,” Ellice Grey said, bending
over him.
He turned up to her a face of agony.
“Let me alone,” he said fiercely, but the tender-
ness in her eyes broke down his defences. He cried
against her breast, brokenly, terribly.
A fortnight after the day of Margery’s burial
Dick turned fifteen. He was young in years, but
environment and the hard necessities of his life
had curtailed childhood. He faced an uncom-
promising, uncaring world—that was not cruel, but
simply hadn’t time to bother about him. His outlook
was curiously mature. His father, after his respectable,
crepe-banded appearance at the funeral, had again
conveniently vanished. He would probably not appear
again ; there was between him and his young son no
bond of affection or similarity of character. He was
gone—and might remain absent for ever, so far as
Dick was concerned. Remained his own problem—
the ever-present one of daily bread. He had a desire
for wider horizons. He wanted to shake free of
Saddler and Sons and the dusty Balmain streets. With
Margery’s death, all ties were cut; he cast about for
what he sought, and with old Davidson’s help was not
long in obtaining a job on an unbeautiful cargo-boat
bearing, by some stroke of unconscious humor, the
name of Foam Fairy. She lay below Pyrmont Bridge,
mirrored dimly in the scummy, thick green water. It
was the day before she took the blue path that Dick
came rather hesitatingly to say good-bye.
He said awkwardly, “I’ll have to be going. And
I thank you for your goodness when —when mum
died.” He brought it out with a jerk, and his voice
faltered.
“My poor boy,” said Mrs. Grey, touched. She
put her delicate hand on his shoulder a moment. “I
hope sincerely this step will be for your good. You
must write and let us know how you get on, Dicky.”
Flying feet followed him across the
green lawn ; he turned, to see Ruve be-
hind him, tears in her blue eyes.
“Dear Dick! Poor Dick!” she said,
and flung sudden, warm arms round his
neck. He felt her soft lips touch his cheek, and a
flood of warm feeling swept his forlorn heart.
“Some day I’ll come back,” he said. “You’ll be
grown up then. Wait for me, Ruve.”
She looked at him with solemn eyes.
I’ll wait,” she said. “But you mustn’t forget,
Dick.”
“No fear!” he said boyishly. “But you’d better
run back-—your aunt’s calling you.”
The gate shut between them.
Ruve was taking drawing lessons at school. Look-
ing over her book one night, her uncle became unex-
pectedly enthusiastic.
“This girl must take regular lessons in an art
school when she’s older. There’s feeling here —and
here.”
“An art school! Oh, Uncle Tim, Aunt Leila . . .
if I could!”
“Art schools!” said her aunt. “They’re not really
nice, dear. Models, you know.”
“Nice! Art isn’t nice, Ellice!” he said derisively.
“Then it isn’t for Ruve,” said her aunt decisively.
“She’s going on very well as it is. She can go out
with Miss Allen’s sketch class. Scenery—no one
objects to it. But not models, my dear. Undraped.”
Her uncle said earnestly, “That won’t hurt her.
But don’t bring home copies of English landscapes
you’ve never seen. I’d value a faulty recognisa.ble
sketch of a gum-tree more than that copy of the
Warwick manor-house Miss Allen made you do.”.
“It was very pretty,” said her aunt approvingly.
“Quite worth framing.”
“It was worth nothing,” said her uncle explo-
sively. “Some one else thought that out—did-all the
labor —made the picture, such as it was —a pretty-
pretty trifle. Quite easy to sit down and copy it. No,
my child. Go out and make a drawing of the wheel-
barrow in the garden if you like; but let it be your
own, and nobody else’s but your own. Even ah
original Australian wheelbarrow is worth more than
a slavish copy of another fellow’s brains.”
The warm, secure, companionable life wrapped
her round. . Sydney enfolded her budding girl-
hood ; the blue islands lay clear, yet far and unreal,
in her memory. Incredible to think that she had
lingered and listened while the fat native women
gossiped maliciously over the slimy boards and the
tubs standing in the mud. The island speech lay half-
forgotten in her mind. She didn’t want to go back ;
her life was here with the woman who was like a
mother to her and the man who was kinder to her
than her father had been. She was seventeen now and
an art student. Life was all rosy and full of promise.
One afternoon she came in from class, put down
her paintbox in the hall, and stopped short at the
sound of a voice. - An unforgotten voice that took
her back nine years.
Laurence looked no different, except that he was
bulkier. He seemed to bring into the trim, pretty room
a breath of wide, blue seas, of
hilly islands and the curling
tide lapping about the black
piles of his wharf. She saw
her aunt sitting very still and
rather tense-looking. She stood
aghast in the doorway. Her
father saw the look in her
eyes, and a curious flicker
passed over his face.
“You don’t seem alto-
gether pleased to see me,
Ruve,” he said quietly. “Come
over here and let me see you.
Seventeen, aren’t you? Almost
a woman grown. Aren’t you
going to give me a kiss?”
She lifted a cold face and
kissed his hard, red cheek. The
old fear she had always had of
him woke in her. His hard,
blue eyes held hers a moment;
they seemed the eyes of a stranger.
Laurence himself could not have told what
impulse drove him. He was in Sydney on business;
he had meant only to see his young daughter and
return to Ruvia. But at the shrinking withdrawal of
her he felt a strange anger and bewilderment. They
were teaching her to hate him, and he her father!
Pretty goings-on! He’d not stand that.
“Well, Ruve? You don’t ask how mamma and
Vivien are. Well—you’ll see them soon enough.”
She looked at him with piteous eyes.
He said harshly, “You’re coming home with me,
Ruve. You’ve had long enough away.”
Ellice stood up with a little cry.
“Oh, James, you’re not taking her back? You
couldn’t do that!”
He turned on the pale woman the cold question-
ing of his eyes.
“And why not? Isn’t she my daughter? You’ve
been good to her, and I thank you for it. But Ruvia
is her home. She must come back.”
“But her education? Her classes? She’s doing
so well.”
“I don’t hold with too much education for girls,”
he said. “No. She must come home. She has a right
to her place there. There was never any intention of
her staying here for good.”
“You’re doing a cruel thing,” said Ellice, des-
perately nerving herself to speak. “Perhaps you are
spoiling all her future. I love Ruve. For her own
sake—for Madeline’s sake—let her stay here with me.
She’s better here than with”—— She stopped abruptly.
Fire flashed in his eyes.
“Finish it, madam. You were going to say with
a dark woman. Am I right?”
Ellice said courageously, “The word is your own.
But I do say that Ruve is better here. Won’t you
consider it?”
“I have made up my mind. She is to come
home.”
He went dourly out; and Ruve, caught in the
frail woman’s arms, began to sob heartbrokenly.
Chapter VII.
ttTT OW tall you’ve grown!” cried Elena, holding
H her at arm’s length. “And fair —fair as a lily.
But, oh, my dear, how surprised we were to
hear that father was bringing you back with him!
Ask Vivien here! We felt we should be in Suva to
welcome you. Didn’t we, Vivien?”
“Mamma said what a splendid chance it would
be for us to buy new dresses and things for the house,”
said the fourteen-year-old Vivien serenely. She tossed
back the luxuriant dark curls that framed her dark
and vivid face.
“Little cat!” said Elena, laughing. “See how she
gives me away ! But we were excited, just the same.”
In Elena’s big room the light filtered goldenly
through the drawn, thin curtains. On the bed was a
pile of parcels ; they overflowed it in gay disorder.
Elena herself, in a gorgeously-embroidered jade-green
kimono, satin slippers on her little arched feet, did
not at first sight look her thirty-three years. She was
still gay and carefree, still a very pretty woman. She
looked altogether too young to be the mother of
Vivien, who at fourteen was much nearer womanhood
than Ruve had been at the same age.
Ruve was glad to find Elena and Vivien awaiting
them in Suva; her father’s company had been some-
thing of an ordeal. And amazement showed itself so
nakedly in her face to see Vivien wreathe fond arms
round Laurence’s neck and lean her glowing cheek
against his that the man felt an unwonted pricking
of conscience, coupled unreasonably with irritation
against Ruve herself.
“There, there, lassie, don’t choke me!” he said a
trifle shortly, but Vivien, deliberately tightening her
hold, called him a grumpy old crosspatch who didn’t
deserve two such pretty daughters. He chuckled, his
fleeting chagrin forgotten. It was plain to see he
adored the child.
Suva seemed to have dwindled from the bright,
picturesque town of her childish memories. The
streets seemed narrower, the buildings smaller, though
still the intense sunlight washed over them from dawn
to dusk. In the streets, dazzling by day or lit with the
pervading tropical moonlight by night, seventeen-
year-old eager Ruve heard again diverse tongues:
Hindustani, Chinese, South Sea dialects —Samoan,
Tongan and, interlinking through them all, the
familiar Fijian that had been her mother tongue.
They drove out of the town along the winding
Waimanu-road to Rewa, walked in the gardens
fronting the shining sea. Often Ruve was conscious
that passers-by looked somewhat curiously at them.
They certainly were a contrast —luxuriant, dark Elena,
blossoming, dark Vivien, and she herself, as Elena put
it, “fair as a lily!” They made a curious trio, even
in Suva.
To Suva succeeded Levuka; and here, where the
Laurences were better known, their few days were
THE STORY SO FAR.
The children of James Laurence,
trader and planter, of Ruvia, Fiji, are
a strange trio. Roddy, the eldest, though
almost white, has the blood of Laurence’s
former dark mistress. Ruve is the
daughter of the planter’s first wife, who
died when she was born. The third
child, Vivien, also has dark blood. Her
mother is Elena, a beautiful half-caste
girl, whom Laurence married when Ruve
was a small child.
When Ruve was eight years old she
was sent to live with her Aunt Ellice in
Sydney. Dick Carew is a boy whom
Aunt Ellice has befriended.


filled with more social gaiety. They stayed with a
cousin of Elena’s —a plump, pleasure-loving, good-
natured woman married to a mild-mannered, weary-
looking individual who patiently displayed and
measured off drapery by the yard to Levuka’s white
and particolored world of women. Weary and
polite, he stood behind his counter as they drifted
in and out. White women, pale, languid, vivacious,
in cool frocks, furling their sunshades; bare-
footed, lingering native women; and to each of
them he showed the same weary politeness. He was
a Melbourne man who had come down as a young
shop-assistant to Levuka, had married buxom Rosa
Brown —and remained anchored in the drowsy, sea-
walled town ever since.
Levuka was smaller, more intimate, Ruve
decided. It came out to meet one with friendliness ;
it accepted her at once as one of the Laurences.
They left Levuka at last for Ruvia.
It was barely dawn; stars showed still above the
peaks as they came down through the quiet lanes of
Levuka into the main street. A salty tang was in
the cool air; they came to the schooner swaying
gently in the tide by Levuka wharf.
There they were: her father keen to be back
in his beloved Ruvia ; Elena a little pettish because
she hated getting up early; Vivien drowsy, too ; her-
self excited with the novelty of it all, that was yet
familiar—the memory of oars cutting silken waters
in dawns long gone over came out of her childhood.
Adventure! Change! Something stirred in her at
the thought of seeing so soon again the island of
her birth.
They glided out from the wharf, and Levuka
seemed to slip back like a little, self-sufficing world.
Over the peaks lay a curl of mist; and as the dawn
brightened lights went out here and there in the
houses clinging to the steep hillside. Next dawn
should see them anchoring beside awakening Ruvia.
Dawn and piled clouds taking fantastic shapes
over Ovalau and Wakaya ; broad noon and burning
heat on the blue waters! Twilight and night, with a
round moon and stars to which the swaying masts
seemed to soar! Fitful sleep! Waking from it once,
she saw in the lanternlight the shock-headed helms-
man half-asleep at the wheel. Her father, emerging
from the stuffy, coconut-oil-scented cabin the women
had declined, woke him with an angry oath. She
dozed again.,
Feeling more draggled and schooner-scented than
she could have believed possible, she awoke in the
cool and pearly light of first dawn; and there
before her rose unforgotten Ruvia. She saw the hills
with the deep cleft between, in the lip of which stood
the homestead ; the copra-shed and the adjacent build-
ings. Far out into the shallow tide ran the black
wharf, she remembered ; down it a little procession
was slowly advancing. The schooner had ruffled
through the passage, and was now dropping anchor
in the calm lagoon. Another chapter had opened in
her life.
Intimately the life of Ruvia enfolded Ruve
again ; it blended and became continuous with that
dimmer Ruvia of her childish memories. They clung
most to the homestead, the compound, the white
beach before it and the high cleft hills —that had
seemed to tower then like walls behind the world—
for background. Now Ruvia, isled in wide blue
waters, opened out to her; and some quality it pos-
sessed —the same, had she known it, that appealed to
her father —caught at her heart and imagination. The
color and the light that played over the high-hilled
island besieged her sharpening perception of beauty ;
she burned to capture it with pencil and brush.
She had been a student at an art school during
that last year in Sydney. Enthusiasm, ambition, the
confidence of youth, had all gone with her up the
winding stairs to the long, narrow studio where one
drew and painted from the living
model. Eager, talented, she had
thrown herself into the hard,
unrelenting work art demanded.
And slowly assurance and
strength had begun to creep
into her work; feeling her way
into line and color, she became
aware of the dawning of a
power, a sureness in herself that
was later to bear fruit.
There in Ruvia she drew,
she painted. Flung back on her
own initiative, she went straight
to life in the raw. Elena, really
interested, proved an unexpected
ally. She had an old bure swept
bare and clean of lumber that
had been piling there for years.
She was like an eager girl her-
self sometimes with the two
young girls.
“You shall paint us both.
Ruve,” she said, pleased. “Look
—is there light enough, here, or
shall we have another window
put in?
Laurence himself did not
take Ruve’s burning ambition
seriously, although he was
aware of a faint and repressed
interest. He did not believe in
careers for women; he thought
that marriage was all-sufficing.
But, stepping one day into the
empty, sun-flooded studio, he
was amazed to see the lifelike
face of Elena looking at him
from an easel, with that secret
smile in her eyes that disturbed
him; there was the young
Vivien’s grace captured in a
delicate pastel study, and there
old Lavinia sat a-nod in sun-
dappled shadow. He saw
sketches of hill and beach, with a glamor thrown
over them that was all Ruve’s own. He saw, too,
a spirited impression of himself —a thing made up
of a few essential lines —that made him chuckle
appreciation. He was, in spite of himself, impressed
and disturbed ; perhaps he should have let her have
her chance in Sydney.
Denny took Elena and the two girls across to
Valoa in the launch that had superseded the long
whaleboat of Ruve’s memories and could do the trip
in two hours if one went the shorter way. Nothing
in Valoa seemed very much changed. There stretched
the same long, untidy beach —a medley of drawn-up
boats, overhanging trees, dogs and children. Fronting
it, too, the house of Elena’s mother, now a widow,
with the shadowy, intimate bure that held so many
childish memories. Batila—the tidy old native
woman—kissed her, exclaimed at the change in her.
“Her breasts are grown,” she said, nodding, pleased,
as she let her hands, with their blanched spots, fall
from the girl’s shoulders. Ruve blushed, and the old
woman said shrewdly, “She is shy now—like a white
girl—our young Ruve.”
The past flowed back:
The Bennetts’ house had moved a shade nearer
dilapidation ; the untidy verandah shuddered under-
foot. But the garden was still luxuriant, colorful and
undefeated. Old Bennett’s mind had almost gone
now ; he lived in a world of dreams. But Adela,
incredible creature, had changed little with the years.
It was strange how vital she seemed in that decaying
house; “like a red hibiscus growing on a grave,”
Ruve thought. She welcomed the girl with open arms ;
there was the glint of tears in her brilliant eyes.
“But, my dear, you shouldn’t be here at all! ” she
cried. “They should have left you with that good
aunt of yours. You’re not really one of us —though
you do fit in so amazingly. It’s a shame.”
Vivien pouted.
“Why, Mrs. Bennett —why shouldn’t Ruve come
home? She belongs to us ; we want her.”
“I’ve no doubt you do,” said Mrs. Bennett, laugh-
ing now. “But it’s Ruve’s own good I’m thinking of.
She shouldn’t have come back. You and my Lola
here are two quite different problems.”
The slim young girl in the faded pink print at
her side laughed. That was .Lola Bennett at seven-
teen —a lissom, pretty girl whose youth seemed to
burn in her like a flame. She, too, imparted some-
thing of vitality to the shabby verandah.
“Still —what’s done is done,” cried Mrs. Ben-
nett, with that gay philosophy of hers.' “Anyhow,
let’s have tea. Here it comes —at last.”
Over the tea and the cake Mrs. Bennett had
evidently made while thinking intently of something
else, Ruve heard of Flora, now married to Frank
Clark and the mother of four children. Bessie was
staying with friends in Lautoka. Ruve noticed that
everything in the house seemed older: the grey bead
curtains still made a dry whispering, the furniture
was very worn, and the numerous photographs and
sentimental pictures had faded with the passing years.
Peter Harley came in to supper at Batila’s that
night. He had never married; he lived close at hand
in a couple of rooms at the back of his small trading-
store. He was a tall, rather striking-looking man now,
this Harley who had once been the passionate lover
of the young Elena. Shrewd Batila, sitting blandly
at the head of her own table with that characteristic
Sphinxlike look of hers, knew how passionately Youth
had cried to Youth in that fled time of ardor and
aspiration. But that was all over and done with now.
They sat in the lamplit, cosy room. Elena was
very gay that night; once or twice the old woman
looked at her warningly. Ruve, standing at the
window, looked out on Valoa, dark under the
moonless night. There was hardly a breath of wind
stirring ; from the road outside came the laughter of
a girl with her lover. Turning to the lit room again,
she felt something vibrant, intense, catch at that
dramatic sense never dormant in her. Vivien had
gone to bed, old Batila was nodding in her chair.
She heard Elena say low, “To-night, then,” and saw
a strange, exultant look come over the man’s dark
face. Batila woke suddenly and blinked at them all,
half-dazed. “Like a nice old owl,” said her daughter
fondly. Peter Harley got up lazily and said good
night. His tall figure blurred into the honeysuckle-
scented night.
Later, Ruve, in the little room off the verandah
she shared with Vivien, deep now in slumber, stirred
at the faint sound of bare feet passing her door.
Half a-drowse, she heard the verandah door open
gently, as if someone had slipped out into the dark
night. Silence —then. In the morning she was sure
that she had dreamed.
Chapter VIII.
THE East —in the shape of Indian coolies —had
come to Ruvia.
Up to this little cluster of outward islands
they had penetrated—a wave from the great sea of
them that already washed over Fiji. Lean, hard-
working men ; chattering, veiled women; tiny boys
with strings round their brown middles; little girls
dressed in small, tight jackets and voluminous skirts
like their mothers —looking absurdly like women in
miniature.
Barrack-like lines had been built for them by the
creek ; the sirdar and his family had a small house
and garden a little apart.
At evening the red of their cooking-fires glowed
in the dusk, the monotonous beating of their drums
came throbbing dully down to the homestead ; the
alien Eastern speech spired up in the night.
Elena had feared them at first; had wanted to
lock doors and shutter windows at night. Laurence
laughed at her terrors.
“They’ll do you no harm, lass,” he said reassur-
ingly. “Those terrible tales you’ve heard —you can’t
always blame the coolie. There’s two sides to every
story, you know. Be fair with him, and firm, and he’ll
give no trouble. They’re in clover here.”
Ruvia, as it had taken to itself so many other
elements in days gone by, assimilated the East. On
the hills and in the little sun-flooded valleys the Indian
men —and women, too —cut at their gathered heaps
of nuts; before dawn the clanging of the labor-bell
brought them stringing out past the quiet homestead,
still a-drowse.
Gradually the aliens became part and parcel of
Ruvia. Gradually Elena lost her first fear and went
familiarly among them, playing the part of burra
memsahib to their obsequious salaams. The sirdar’s
wife —a Tittle, slim, bright-faced woman who spoke
Fijian fluently and had a somewhat startling vocabu-
lary of pidgin-English—came frequently to the house.
But her attempts to instruct Elena and the girls in
Hindustani were not very successful; they learned a
few phrases, that was all. It was so much easier to
speak to Apaia in English or Fijian.
Ramkali, one of the prettiest of the Indian women,
came to pose for Ruve. She had let her long black
hair fall in two thick plaits ; she had a transparent
silver veil, a scarlet skirt and a little close-fitting black
bodice. Silver armlets shone on her rounded arms, and
silver ringed her slender ankles. There in the little,
bright studio she stood as still as any professional
model: a colorful, arresting figure who might, Ruve
thought, painting swiftly, surely have stepped out of
the Arabian Nights.
She admired the silver armlets.
The slender woman, smiling delicately, raised her
graceful arms to display the trinkets.
(Continued on page 50.)
He sat on a bollard, smoking with the air of one who found himself in command of unexpected leisure.


DEAFNESS
mm
>
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days* trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
42 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.! 83100.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
A Peep into the Not-distant Future: —
A TIMELY
EXPOSURE
By HERBERT
BERNIGE.
HAD the Honorable Member for
Parchiwinds foreseen the far-
reaching effect of “A Bill to Allow
Drawback of Excise on Froth,” possibly
he would never have arisen to introduce
the measure. But at the time he was
strong on the subject. “Why should my
constituents be taxed on their ’obbies
when some of you honorable fellers as
plays golf don’t have to pay on yours?
Wot if you ’ad to pay a tax on every
swipe you took—even when yer don’t
touch the ball? The electors of Parchi-
winds’re not city blokes. Oh, no! In-
stead of oglin’ gals till their drinks be-
come solid liquid they blows off the
froth, thereby inflatin’ the revenue with
valyer not received. Now, ain’t that
sound?”
“Sound—that’s all,” interjected a mem-
ber shrilly.
“Listen to ’im!” came the- rejoinder.
“ ’E’s got a throat like a lime-burner’s
bootlace. Come to my elect’rate,
friend! Somebody’d offer to ile that
squeaky voice o’ yourn. It cost ten mil-
lion to bridge a drop of that water
you’re alwuz pratin’ about.”
Uproar ensued. The Speaker ordered
the Honorable Member to withdraw, so
he withdrew to the bar.
And thus began the most stormy period
in the history of Canberra. Govern-
ments rose and fell. For the first time
for days there were serious splits in each
Labor party, while every member of the
Country party agreed to appoint himself
leader.
Public opinion became thoroughly
aroused on this absorbing question.
Froth was on everybody’s lips. And
soon the entire population arpse in fer-
ment.
Special trains, ’planes and limousines
converged on the capital.
Hordes of women and sev-
eral men wore hostile
frowns and such placards
as “Down with All Liquor,”
“Mouths off Froth,” “Satan
Lies Beneath the Foam.”
Parliament House be-
came the centre of a throng
that oiled not, neither did
they sin. Honorable mem-
bers, determined not to be intimidated,
hastily barred the doors ; and as the divi-
sion bells rang some took their places
behind the doors, others in front of the
bar.
Trousers
jy/IEANWHILE members were
Crushing about in an effort
to form a Government. As
a last resource they approached
the Honorable Member for
West Ourbridge, who had
sought a secluded corner to
write a book on “The Meaning of Fer-
mentation.”
Disturbed in the act of consulting the
dictionary to see if “fermentation” and
“fomentation” were at all synonymous,
he consigned them to blithering blazes ;
but on learning that some of their wives
were clamoring for admission he took
compassion and, disguising himself as a
meek little man, wriggled through the
surging multitude to procure a double
dissolution.
The result of the general election was
a foregone conclusion. The widespread
counter-demonstrations, together with the
exodus of wives to conferences or Can-
berra, had had a remarkable effect on the
exponents and adherents of the cause of
freedom. Daring men proclaimed that
the hand that bought the cradle ruled
the roost, but their voices became
drowned. And eventually those able to
stand—or even crawl —began
to swallow their pride and
seek their favorite publicans
for a “chaser” on the nod.
“Haven’t a drop in the
place,” came the inevitable
reply from behind piles of
money.
The idea of a pub running
utterly dry not only seemed
ludicrous but incredible.
“Well, ring the blinkin’
brewery, distillery, winery,
tannery or somewhere; I’ll
wait.”
“No use! They’ve all sold out and
retired.”
When the amazing fact dawned on the
thirsty that all liquor had resolved itself
into the hard-earned cash of the only
people that had any real use for money,
and that this accumulated wealth was
being packed in the empties to leave the
country, they avowed they
had been “sold a pup,” and
took no further interest,
except to express candid
opinions on the ballot
papers.
Consequently the fol-
lowers of Theophilus
Whowser swept the polls.
Among the few re-elected
were a knight from W.A.,
who was returned unopposed because
of the impression that he was a
life member ; the member for West Our-
bridge, who received all second prefer-
ences owing to a bitter controversy
for
whether babies should be sprinkled or
dipped; and the member for Parchi-
winds, who received a majority of one,
this being his own absent vote, the only
formal one cast for his electorate.
The Honorable Theophilus Whowser
formed a Government, and the Honorable
Joshua Saggijaws was elected Speaker.
Following the usual formalities, the
Minister of Internal Affairs rose to intro-
duce “A Bill to Prohibit.”
THE preamble empowered the Govern-
ment to declare anything “sinful,”
whether enumerated or not, and by pro-
clamation to prohibit' or abolish it.
At this stage the Minister paused while
the member for West Ourbridge, fan-
ning himself with a faded copy of “The
War Precautions Act,” staggered from the
Chamber sobbing bitterly.
The Minister proceeded to enumerate
those “sinful” things for which provision
was made in the principal Act: “Publi-
cans ; all intoxicants, including ales, wines
(fermented), spirits, etc.; bookmakers,
totalisators, betting-shops, horseraces *
gambling or wagering, including raffles,
spotlight or lucky-spot waltzes; dancing,
tobacco, threepenny pieces”
Mr. Blithely ( one-time curate ):
“Shouldn’t tobacco come under the pur-
view of the Minister for Ex-ternal Affairs,
seeing that the smoke is not retained in-
ternally but issues forth to pollute the
atmosphere?”
The member for Parchiwinds ( weakly ):
“Wot erbout appointin’ a Minister for
E-ternal Affairs to deal with spirits?”
The Speaker named the Honorable
Member for Parchiwinds for heresy.
Another member rose to agree with the
bill, but he felt that the Constitution did
not give the House the necessary powers
to enforce its provisions.
Mr. Speaker: “Honorable brethren;
having searched the laws of the Israelites,
Malachites, Jews and other ancient races,
I find no authority for the establishment
of such iniquities; therefore
I rule that all such industries
and practices have been un-
lawfully instituted.”
The member for Parchi-
winds: “Holy Moses!”
Mr. Speaker: “Order! The
whole question is beyond dis-
pute —I have a text for it.”
The member for Parchi-
winds : “And where’s the
revenue a-comin’ from, Mr.
Minister, when you’re killin’
the goose as swollers the
golden ale, and the smoker
wot puts the ’undreds an’ thousands on
the gingerbread?”
The Minister ( pityingly ): “Haven’t' we
the power to take up collections? Aren’t
we abolishing the threepenny bit?”
Progress was reported, and the House
adjourned for a fortnight to enable mem-
bers to attend Victory tea-meetings in
their constituencies.
On the resumption of business an
honorable member got leave to intro-
duce a matter of extreme urgency.
He said that several young women on
the previous Sabbath had attended wor-
ship without hats, thereby upsetting him
throughout the service. He asked that
such unseemly conduct be brought within
the provisions of the bill.
Mr. Blithely ( cautiously ): “We can
hardly expect to transform this wicked
world into a paradise immediately. Some
of them have such beaut —glor 1 know
it is rather distracting from the pulpit,
but could we not think the matter over—
perhaps next session”
Several honorable members smiled.
And the newspapers made a feature of
those smiles in cartoon and article, re-
ferring also to those members who had
established records of attendance at tea-
meetings during the adjournment.
So two days later, while the House
was debating a legal limit to the strength
of tea, a tall, gaunt figure strode in. Her
gamp came down with a report like a
pistol shot, her thin lips disappeared into
a crevice between her nose and chin, and
her eyes flashed fire.
Members stared aghast and crumpled
up on their benches. One by one they
began to slink out; then there followed
a stampede for the door, and soon a
long line of legislators, clasping their
bags, was racing in open formation for
the train.
The member for Parchiwinds awoke.
After glancing around the empty benches
he noticed a huge pair of shoes peeping
from a bundle of clothes. As his eyes
lifted his jaws fell:
“Hullo, Birdie,”
he said meekly.
“Wot’s ’appened?”
AS the awful appa-
rition stood
regarding him he
licked his lips and
tugged at his collar.
“Cripes! Perhaps
you ain’t Birdie!”
he suggested.
“I’d have you know I’m Mrs. Grundy,
henceforth Dictator of Australia,” was
the harsh announcement.
“Did I start this?” he groaned. “It’s
all right, missus—you’re welcome. I was
just on me way for a passport meself.”
But as he attempted to leave the crook
of her gamp hauled him back.
“What’s your name?”
He mumbled something.
“Don’t splutter!” she ordered. “I
didn’t catch your Christian names, but I
take it Mugonearth is your surname. It’s
too long anyhow. I’ll call you Mug, and
as you obviously need taming I shall
appoint you my messenger. Surely these
hussies wouldn’t look twice at you!”
Events moved at the double. The red-
flannel army came into existence, and a
reign of anguish began throughout the
Commonwealth. At first it was hard to
distinguish these upholders of dictatorial
law, since obviously their colors were
scrupulously concealed ; but erring ones
soon learned to sense the presence of the
dreaded flannel.
The “Bill to Prohibit” became law. In
addition, all beauty parlors were closed,
while waves in the hair became a heinous
offence. Shops and homes were raided,
and all lipsticks, face-powders, rouge and
other aids to the manufacture of hussies
seized and de-
stroyed.
There were
heart - rending
scenes at the
huge bonfires
where silk stock-
ings and dainty
lingerie blended
countless shades
into the hungry
flames, which
resembled writhing masses of red flannel.
The time seemed ripe for a great
feminine uprising, but the cold wind
drove them to the market-place to pro-
cure supplies of the universal material.
Animals.
Dictator undressing
in the dark.


4 NO VELS FOR 5/-
or 9 for 10/6
POST FREE.
A limited number of Endeavour Press novels which have
become slightly soiled in the store are now made available
to Bulletin readers at bargain prices. The usual price of
these is 5/- and 6/~ each.
Your choice of Four of the following
for 5/-, post free.
“SATURDEE” Norman Lindsay
BRING THE MONKEY Miles Franklin
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK Vera Dwyer
IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY, Charles Chauvel
JONAH Louis Stone
THE SOW’S EAR Bernard Cronin
NIGHTS ASHORE Captain Jack Hamilton
THE DOUGHMAN Robt. Desmond Tate
STORIES BY “KODAK”
Mark the books you require and post the list, together with
postal note, to
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
▲
lMi4
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
my
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
fJSk
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
217 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne
SllflOlS
81
smm
3HBOIO
1 ifpntilf fmntn,S Mfg
6N/
It's the popular model . . . Globite 1853,
light in weight, glossy as leather and extra
strong and rigid. Globite Cases, made of
the best and toughest fibre, are reinforced
for better wear. Ask for Globite 1853
there are all sizes.
High-heeled shoes and low-necked
dresses suffered likewise, and an edict
came forth that, pending experiments in
laboratories for their entire abolition, the
slightest hint of the shameful curves of
the feminine form would be considered
an offence, the delinquents to be clothed
in steel tubes for life.
Mixed tea-parties, music halls, theatres,
pictures and bathing were abolished.
Moreover citizens were ordered to dress
and undress in the dark lest they be
shocked by their own nakedness.
The decree to prohibit young men and
women from associating was soon ren-
dered unnecessary.' Even married men
glancing at their wives paused to wonder ;
then slunk away into the great arid heart
of the continent, which, according to
purely masculine whispers, Was proving
not so arid.
Certainly this solved one of Australia’s
problems by distributing the population
more evenly throughout the continent.
Then, too, industry began to flourish.
Factories that had closed reopened to
supply the demand for stout clothes, the
inevitable red flannel and trousers for
animals. In the last calling alone thou-
sands were employed in snaring or catch-
ing the culprits to clothe or re-clothe
them in accordance with the dictates of
decency.
“Your administration’s provin’ a great
success, ma’am,” timidly reported the ex-
member for Parchiwinds one morning.
“Do y’ think y’ could spare me to en-
lighten them foreign countries?”
“How is it a success?” demanded the
Dictator.
“Well, nobody’s smilin’; they’re all
nice an’ melancholy an’ ugly, with money
they don’t know what to do with.”
“Confiscate it, Mug! Money breeds
evil. Now go to the laboratory and ask
for their belated report on the abolition
of dangerous curves. Did you dare smile,
Mug?”
“Me, ma’am? Not me! I was only
stretchin’ me face. I’m like the bloke in
’istory wot never smiled again.”
GOING towards the laboratory, he was
passing along the steel barricade
separating the female from the male em-
ployees when a pleading voice and beck-
oning hand arrested him. At heart Mug
was truly gallant, and hated to think of
a damsel in distress, so he sidled along
to the opening door and stepped inside.
He was immediately surrounded by a
bevy of straight-haired, sallow-faced girls
A Dictator Unmasked.
who clung to him wistfully, and as word
of his capture went around shapeless
bundles of femininity poured forth to
join the jostling throng.
“I’d ’ave you ’ussies know I’m Mug,
the Dictator’s messenger,” he gasped.
“Oh, but you’ve a kind heart!” The
chorus of sweet voices caused him to
scratch his head and scan the sea of wan,
uninteresting faces topped with frowsy
hair.
“Oh, Mugsie, free us from this awful
calamity and we’ll all kiss you.”
“Nothin’ doing! It’d spoil me dinner.
Besides, I can see you all belong to the
red-flannel brigade.”
Scores of eyes became downcast and
skirts were smoothed hastily down. “Not
from choice, Mugsie, dear,” spoke up
one. “It’s ruining us body and soul. Oh,
don’t you remember the nice girls who
used to be here?” she pleaded.
He grinned reflectively: “That I do!
Why, bless me soul, y’ don’t mean to
say”
“Yes, that’s us! If you’ll promise to
help us, when we get our war-paint on
again and emerge from these bundles of
monstrosity nowadays called frocks we’ll
all hug you.”
“Done!” cried Mug breathlessly. “Why,
me darlin’s, I remember you now. You’ve
gone a bit flat—needin’ a dash of some-
thin’ to bring back the sparkle. Un’and
me! Igo ’ence to do your bidding!”
Fondling his second chin musingly he
proceeded to the laboratory where, as
in bygone days, a civil servant pursued
the even tenor of his way heedless of a
caller.
“What’ll ’appen to that?” asked Mug
after eyeing the experiment for ten
minutes.
The chemist glanced up, scowling. “Oh-,
it’s Mr. Mug!” he said affably. “I didn’t
hear you come in.” Then he went on in-
formatively: “A remarkable discovery.
I applied this solution four hours ago ;
now you see the result.”
“Strange! That’s just what I came for.
Put some in a bottle and wrap it in a
grundy skirt to hide the graceful lines! ”
As a result of Mug’s machinations a
petition was presented to the Dictator
most humbly praying that she allow the
grateful citizens an opportunity of seeing
the one who had abolished all evil, thus
rendering everybody so miserably happy.
He made it his business to be on hand
when the petition was read. “Sheer non-
sense!” snapped the Dictator. “D’you
think 7 want to be gazed at! ”
“Course not, ma’am,” he agreed. “It’s
all right for the Hitlers an’ Mussolinis
sittin’ astride their nags salutin’ their
subjec’s, but not our one and only Mrs.
Grundy. Oh, no! That’s too far-fetched!
Ha, ha!”
“Mug! ” she demanded savagely. “Have
you gone mad? Why shouldn’t I, the
greatest Dictator of all time, ride through
the populace to receive their homage?”
“But astride, ma’am!” was the horri-
fied rejoinder.
“Astride fiddlesticks! Procure me a
sedate horse suitably clothed and a side-
saddle. Such will be the law for horse-
women henceforth.”
So in the early morning of a day
fraught with the fate of a nation Mug,
with a bottle in his hip pocket, stole fur-
tively into the darkroom where the Dic-
tator was wont to dress ; and, emerging,
he secreted the empty bottle, meanwhile
conjuring up an expression of perfect
innocence.
Long before the appointed hour citi-
zens lined the streets, and when the
famous Mrs. Grundy rode forth a vast
human avenue awaited her. At first she
was received in ominous silence, but
when a bevy of bright-eyed girls fell in
to march beside her, gazing up as though
in breathless adoration, those passed by
joined in the procession, too.
SUDDENLY the Dictator made a wild
grasp at something which crumbled
in her hand. For a moment the crowd
literally held its breath ; then came a
deafening roar, for one bony shoulder
lay exposed to the public gaze. Mrs.
Grundy made
a frantic
effort to dis-
mount, lash-
ing right and
left with her
tongue, but
the now-de-
lighted girls,
flushed as
though with
the finest
rouge, hem-
med in to
thrust her
back.
Every eye
was turned
on that
s q u i rming
form as piece
by piece her
clothing crumbled away.
The crowd grew so hoarse with wild joy
that her steed got wild, too, and galloped
off along that hilarious highway with the
exposed Dictator clinging to its neck.
The ride of Lady Godiva through the
streets of Coventry wasn’t in it. Nobody
peeped, they stared ; until, somewhat like
the Tom of old, many became blind -
with tears of mirth.
Then with one accord the vast
assemblage moved towards Government
House.
“Give us a Government!” they roared
politely.
The Governor-General emerged from a
mound of telegrams and scratched his
head with a pencil. “I haven’t much to
offer you,” he answered reflectively.
“How about Theophilus Whowser?”
The resultant “No” is said to have shat-
tered wireless valves in Iceland.
After deliberating long and earnestly
he hazarded: “I don’t suppose you’ll be
wanting Joe Lyons again!”
“Yes —even that!” called the subdued
multitude as they began to disperse.
Mrs. Grundy has not been heard of
since. But such is the spirit of the people,
especially the flappers, that Parliament
daren’t pass any measure to prohibit any-
thing but Mrs. Grundy.
The Honorable Member for Parchi-
winds resumed his seat, but spends much
of his time receiving deputations from
charming, lithesome young ladies with
beautiful wavy hair, adorable com-
plexions and lips that allure, who trip
along with a confident air to the almost
perceptible swish of silk.


Weak Kidneys
STABBING PAINS IN THE BACK, LUMBAGO
You are justified in regarding
Kidney Trouble as a serious com-
plaint, but you should not let it
make you miserable or spoil your
life. Excepting in very rare cases,
Kidney Trouble yields quickly to
treatment with De Witt’s Pills, and
thus the remedy is within your
easy reach.
Chemists everywhere sell De
Witt’s Pills, and it is a wise plan to
keep a box handy
in the house so that
you can take one or
two the moment you
recognise symptoms
of kidney trouble.
You may awaken with a nasty
taste in your mouth; your tongue
may be coated, your breath foul.
There may be puffiness under your
eyes. Your ankles or your feet may
swell and there may be pain in your
back or your hips or your shoulders.
These are signs by which you may
know that all is not well with your
kidneys. They are allowing uric
acid to escape in dangerous quan-
tities to poison your blood and
torture your body, but De Witt’s
Pills will quickly put you right,
because they contain ingredients
which act directly upon the kidneys.
They make the kidneys healthy and
active, and so rid your system of
harmful uric acid.
Nature intended that your kidneys should
act as filters to keep your system pure and free
from poisonous waste matters. By taking
De Witt’s Pills you give weak or congested
kidneys just the natural assistance they need,
and the alarming symptoms quickly disappear.
Thus you see that the treatment of kidney
trouble is quite simple.
There is no need for alarm
and no reason why the
ailment should get the
upper hand and make a
slave of you. The only
thing to remember is that
prompt treatment saves
much suffering and prevents the ailment
getting a firm hold on your system. That
is why you should get De Witt’s Pills quickly.
The cost is trifling, and a remedy that has
already relieved thousands cannot fail to do
you good. Don’t stop to think it over. Kidney
trouble gets rapidly worse. Buy a box to-day,
price 3/6, or more economical size, 6/6.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen
feet or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains,
gravel or stone. These symptoms usually
precede attacks of Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica or serious Kidney Trouble,
and much suffering and expense may be saved
by quickly getting a box of De Witt’s Pills
from the chemist and taking them as directed.
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitt’s Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see, feel
and know for certain that they are
doing you good.
KIDHEY TROUBLE—
THE CAUSE
D* WITT'S PILLS —
THE REMEDY
Mr. Chas. Hayward, of 15, Lombard Street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, New South Wales,
writes: —
“ji few years ago I suffered severely
with rheumatism and kidney trouble . A
friend advised me to try De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, and I am very thankful
to say that after taking only three bottles
of this wonderful remedy l found com-
plete relief.”
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
The End of a Chapter:-
THE COTTAGE.
By LAN MUDIE.
THE cottage was becoming a burden
to his conscience. He was always
glad when it stood empty, as it did
at present, abandoned to the rats. It
stood bleak and bare beside the cross
roads on Tops Hill,' square, with three
rooms, the living-room being lighted only
by the blurred panes of glass in the front
door. The bag ceilings in all three rooms
were sagging, with whitewash peeling
from them. The grey-green fingers of
damp reached up from the rat-holes at
floor level almost to the ceiling. The
chimney sloped, and drifts of rotting
gumleaves and pine needles piled against
the outside of the pug walls.
He knocked his pipe out against a
post. No, he would never let the cottage
again. He would pull it down and have
a weatherboard shack built in its place.
It would be healthier for the tenants and
more profitable for him.
A lorry pulled up at the front gate.
By the name it bore he guessed that it
came from further up, where many of
the older folk could still be heard singing
German songs at night. Their children
learned English in the schools and heard
German spoken in their homes. There
are many such in the Adelaide hills. The
blue-shirted driver leaped down and
turned to help an old man to the ground.
Back in his seat, the driver waved a
cheery hand. The old man opened the
gate and walked slowly up the path to
the verandah. Superficially his person-
ality seemed indecisive, but there seemed
also some purpose, some longing be-
neath, and there was about him the air
of a man who has been long absent
from the things he loves and cherishes.
It was as though his feet had long been
bruised on alien ground.
“Are you Mr. Annells?” he inquired.
Annells looked at him for a minute
across the flame of his match. Then,
“I am,” he replied; “won’t you sit
down?” „
“I will, gladly. It’s been a long ride.
“What can I do for
you?”
The old man looked
at him, and then
gazed away across the
hills. “I chanct to
hear as you owned
the cottage on Tops
Hill nowadays, and
that it’s got no one in
it at present,” he said
slowly.
“That’s right. I’m thinking of pulling
it down.”
“A pity, a pity,” the old man mur-
mured. “I was wonderin’ whether you’d
let it to me,” he explained. “I couldn’t
afford to pay overmuch rent for it; I’ve
only got me pension, but I’d like to live
there. You see, it’s where I was born.”
The old man’s eyes were eager, as
though the cottage on Tops Hill were a
palace of dreams, and Annells, slightly
cursing himself for his sentimentality,
felt the strength of the old man’s plea.
Perhaps it wouldn’t matter if the old
cottage stood for a few years more.
“I warn you it’s in a pretty bad state,”
he told the old man.
“Don’t matter to me. I was born
there, and I’m over eighty now.”
“Well, you can have it for half a
crown a week, if you like.”
“Thank you, Mr. Annells ; and do you
mind if I sleep there to-night?”
This was too great a folly, for there
was no furniture in the place, and the
floors were littered with rubbish in which
the rats played. But the old man
answered simply that the lorry which had
brought him would not be going back
across the hills until the morning.
“Ah, well,” Annells told him, “I’ll
drive you back. I’ve got some business
to do in Ambleside sometime, and so I
might as well do it this afternoon as any
time.”
As they began their drive the kooka-
burras were loud in the trees, and here
and there a hillside was yellow with
wattle. It seemed a true setting for the
quiet words of the old man. On the
way he told Annells that he was not
being put out of his present place, nor
had the rent been raised. He had merely
felt a “kind of urge” to get back to Tops
Hill and the spot where he had been
born, but which he had not seen for
sixty years. Annells was surprised
when he saw the neat place the old
man was bent on leaving. But old men,
he reflected, were ever full of folly, with
no reason for many of their doings.
Four days later the old man moved
into the cottage. When Annells called
to see him he had already swept out the
rooms and arranged his few sticks of
furniture, and was slowly turning over
the ground in front of the cottage.
He drew a faded red bandana
across his forehead. “When I was
a boy my mother always grew devil-in-
a-cloud, which some people call love-in-
the-mist, along here,” he told the owner,
“and by seedlings I’ve taken the descen-
dants of them plants along with me
wherever I’ve gorn. They’ve always
seemed a bit of homelike, to me. An’
I’ve longed for home enough while l
been away. An’ now I’ve brought ’em
back here again. Seems their right place
like, somehow.”
Annells laughed in friendliness for the
old man. “You shouldn’t have long to
wait for them to grow. They look nice
healthy seedlings you’ve got there.”
“That they are. I’ve always looked
after them proper. And, as you say, I
oughtn’t have long to wait to see ’em
flower.” He stared at the newly-broken
ground and the small parcel of seedlings,
“Yes,” he almost whispered, “I oughtn’t
have to wait long.”
MONTHS passed, and still there
appeared no blue flowers in the old
garden. The small plants did not seem
to realise that they had come home.
But one day the old man met Annells
at the gate. “Mr. Annells, Mr. Annells.
Devil-in-a-cloud’s flowered at last!”
Seeing the old man’s face, Annells felt
that here was some fulfilment far greater
than he could comprehend. He felt that
he would never know how great a sym-
bol were the small blue flowers.
Together they stared at the solitary
blue flower that broke the green of the
plants. At last the old man looked up
from the bloom and pointed. “Over
there by the door,” he said slowly, “is
the place where I was bit by a snake
when I was nine. I came near to death
then. I’ve always thought of it as the
first time I’ve ever sort of had anything
to do with Death. That’s the chief reason
why I came back here. I thought I’d like
to be on familiar ground with Death
when my time came. That and the little
blue flowers made me come back. There’s
snakes around here still. I caught one
swallerin’ a stumpytail the other day.
It sort of reminded me of the way Death’ll
swaller me up when my time comes.”
The old man led the way into the
cottage and counted out half a crown
in small change. The transaction ended,
he put the rent book away in a drawer
of the table and turned towards the door,
“It’s just on sunset now,” he an-
nounced. “I’ll go out and pick that
flower and put it in a glass beside my
bed. It’ll be sort of nice to think of
it being there, even in the dark.”
As Annells drove off up the road he
could see the old man bending tenderly
over the small bed of plants. As he
turned the distant corner he saw that
the tenant of the cottage had moved
across to the spot near the door where
the snake had bitten him in his child-
hood. The blue flower was in the old
man’s hand, and he was staring down at
the ground.
IT was afternoon the next day when
1 Annells crossed Tops Hill. Stopping
suddenly, he left his car and pushed
aside the half-fallen gate of the cot-
tage. He had noticed that the old man’s
blind was still drawn, although usually
he rose at dawn. Walking slowly up the
path with his hat in his hand, Annells
suddenly felt that it would be useless to
knock. Devil-in-a-cloud had flowered,
and the old man had met Death for the
last time, in the cottage in which he had
first come near to the dark invader . . .
As he paused to pull the latch-string
of the cottage door, he noticed that two
more flowers had blossomed in the old
man’s plot of devil-in-a-cloud since the
day before. When the men were pull-
ing down the cottage to erect the shack
he must warn them to be careful of
the flowers. The new tenants would like
to see them growing when they moved
in, and sometimes he himself could come
and beg a small bunch to lay on a mound
behind the church in the gully below the
cottage,
As he entered the bedroom there was
a rustling in the enlarged rat-hole beside
the bed. Annells started ; the sound had
clutched at «him in the still, silent room,
As though to reassure himself of the
daylight he glanced through the cracked
glass of the window. He rested his hand
on the dusty window sill to steady him-
self, for he was shuddering,
The old man had forgotten to put
water in the glass beside his bed the
night before, and the blue flower in it
had faded and drooped. Indeed, it was
almost leaning over to touch the old
man’s cold, clenched, outflung hand.
Outside, the grass rustled suddenly and
was still again.


HUMOR COMPETITION
Nine Days to Go.
A large number of entries has
been received and many more are
arriving daily. The closing date of
the competition is January 31, but
the results will not be announced
until publication of accepted entries
is completed. The Editor’s decision
will be final.
M
■a.
WHEN and where steel was first manufactured
is a mystery, but there are records of its use
from earliest times.
In New South Wales the steel industry is of great
importance, and in 1934 487,259 tons of pig iron
and 518,326 tons of steel ingots were produced.
From steel ingots are manufactured numerous
articles familiar to everyone, including galvanised
iron sheets . . . wire nails . . . screws and bolts
. . . steel girders . . . angles . . . supports and
other building requirements so necessary in the
construction of a modern home.
oj the
The Rural Bank is of inestimable value to home-builders
throughout the State. In 21 years it has made £19,469,859
available, the loans being repayable by easy monthly instal-
ments. Its facilities are made of greater value to borrowers
because of the individual co-operation of the Bank s valuers
and building inspectors who give personal attention to the
buildings under their supervision.
The Bank accepts Fixed Deposits and opens cheque accounts
at all branches.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 350 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS. P. KEARNS
An Entertaining Little Sketch
THE HAUNTING BOOK.
IHAD never before seen this bookshop.
It stood in one of that maze of little
streets about the Haymarket, that part
of Old Sydney which seems to have been
subdivided by a small boy with a play-
ing-card and a pair of shears. The shop
was extremely old-fashioned, with a
narrow front pierced by a small six-
panel window and a low door over
which a small conservative sign said
“Pedersen —Second-hand Books.” The
usual emblematic shelf and box of
“Thruppennies” stood under the dirty
window, and the shop floor was two
steps down from the doorsill. It was too
inviting. I went in.
Inside was dark and musty, and no
one was there. It was ideal. No one
came to ask my “requirements.” I
thought of The Magic Shop—that this
had been specially created to-day for my
benefit and would disappear by to-
morrow. Every eight feet or so shelves
jutted out at right-angles to those lining
the walls, forming little alcoves. They
disappeared away in darkness, the shop
was so deep. In each alcove was a table,
and on each table stood a disturbing
anachronism —an electric reading-lamp,
flanked by a notice “Please switch off
when finished using.” In such a place
one looked for verdigrised brass candle-
sticks and yellow candles.
Some yards down the shop I switched
on a lamp and looked over the shelves.
They were a mixed bag. Ben Jonson
rubbed cheeks with Swedenborg and
Sidonius Apollinarius with Thomas
a’Kempis, whilst uncut Brontes and
Eliots butted in everywhere. I pulled
out a book I had heard of but never
seen. It was Holberg’s Subterranean
Voyage of Nicholas Klimm, and I sat
down to browse.
“Ah, sir, you are fond of the
classics?” a thin, piping voice gently
broke through the phantasm. It was
a little white-haired man standing
gnome-like and smiling behind the lamp.
He was perfect. The second-hand book-
seller one reads about but never meets.
“Ah, sir, there’s not much call for
them these days.” He wagged his head
sadly. “The public wants rubbish, sir,
rubbish. I had thirty-four sales yester-
day, and thirty-two averaged under two
shillings. I can tell you, sir, it’s a
pleasure to see anyone dipping into
these classics—a pleasure, even if
don’t buy.”
Here was a bookseller who loved
books for their own sake. I had read
of them, but—unreal, unreal! I
waited for him and the shop to vanish
and find myself in Paddy’s Market.
“Even then I don’t like selling them,”
he added.
Was he pulling my leg? It sounded
too much like the books. But his en-
thusiasm and his innocent, baby-old face
impressed me.
“Even the books don’t like being away
from their home shelves. They’re old
stick-in-the-muds, like us bookish
people.” He chuckled delightedly and
leaned and peered over at Holberg.
“Well, I declare, that’s the very one!”
I LET him take it up. It was a thick,
* leather-bound quarto volume. “The
Subterranean Voyage of Nicholas
Klimm,” he murmured to himself, strok-
ing the worn leather. He looked steadily
at me and appeared to make up his
mind. “This book’s haunted,” he said.
“Uh?” I jerked.
“Yes, a spook. It
-mocks, knocks to get
He looked hard
at me again. “You
like books? Not
afraid of books?” He
wagged a thin white
hand deprecatingly.
“But who could be
afraid of books?
Come, let me show
you something won-
derful.” He darted out of the alcove
and down the shop. I followed,
and found him half-way up a library
ladder, expectantly waiting for me
like an excited puppy on for a game.
High up in the wall was a small, dirty
window, one of the up-and-down
counterweight type.
The old bookseller went to the top
of the ladder, opened the bottom of the
window, put the book on what appeared
to be a ledge outside, shut down the
window with a bang, and dashed down
again to my side.
“Listen! *’ he said, holding up a silenc-
ing finger. For a moment nothing hap-
pened. Then the two frames of the
window hit together with two sharp
double knocks, like hiccups. Another
moment and they started to tremble to-
gether as though shaken by a wind. But
there was no wind. I looked through
the door of the shop. An auctioneer’s
flag in the bright light of the street across
the road hung stiffly inert. By com-
parison, the musty catacomb of books,
with its ghostly percussions, was weird
and uncanny.
The little man gave a nervous chuckle.
“Listen, he’s trying to get in!” I lis-
tened. The rattling became erratic.
Heavy and soft concussions succeeded
each other irregularly. There was some-
thing familiar about the variations.
What was it? My brain chased the rats
and mice around and around the cage of
my memory till I thought my skull
would split. Suddenly I sensed some-
thing behind me, and, with animal fear,
wheeled. A dark, sullen-looking young
man was padding slowly down the shop,
eyeing us sidelong like a suspicious but
watchful dog.
The old man whispered confidentially.
“My nephew. A clever young electrical
engineer. Quite a genius, but can’t get
work. Like the classics —unappreciated
by the mob.”
Electrical! That was the clue. The
rattling was Morse. I listened.
“Let me come in,” rapped the window-
frames. “Let me come in. Let me come
in” reiterated over and over again in
nervous excitement. The tone grew into
the hysterical pleadings of a frightened
child. “Please, please do let me come
in! ”
“It’s asking to come in.” Without
thinking I also whispered. “It’s talking
in Morse code. It wants to come in!”
WE stared at each other, now marvel-
ling. The little bookseller’s facial
expression changed to pathetic compas-
sion. He put his head on one side and
said, “Now isn’t that sad! Let’s let him
come in.” I nodded sympathetically.
He ran up the laddef, and as he opened
the window the timorous chattering
ceased.
The old book seemed to cuddle into
the old man’s breast as he descended.
“Poor, poor Holberg,” he stroked it
soothingly. “We’ll put you back in your
bedroom.” We returned to the lighted
alcove and he laid the book on the table.
I sat under the light feeling rather be-
wildered and looking up at the thin,
eager face swimming between the murk
of old bindings and the lamp.
“A customer found a silverfish in him
one day, and as I’m very careful about
such beasties I sprayed him thoroughly—
in case of eggs, you see. Then I put
him out on that ledge to dry and rid
him of the smell. I forgot him when
I shut the shop and went upstairs. But
in the night he woke me with that
rattling, and, as I’m a light sleeper, I had
to come down. There was no wind, and
the window was shut. I had shut it
down on him because of the draught,
but now there was no wind. I took him
in and went back to bed. Soon after
a storm burst and the wind blew like fury;
but the window did not rattle—it’s too
protected by the buildings all round.
Sir? It was only him, all right!”
The gnome hugged his logic. .
“Next day it was fine and calm, and
I tried him out again. In five minutes
he was rattling away at the window just
like he did now. Wasn’t that prodigious?
I’ve tried him over and over again. Cruel,
cruel, yes ; but I wanted to be sure. And
each time the period before he started
signalling got shorter and shorter. And
now he rattles Morse, you say? Fancy
an old feller like him knowing Morse.
I know! He must have learned it from
a Morse code-book somewhere in the
shop. By Odin and Thor, the books must
chat together at night. It’s extraordinary,
don’t you think?”
But I was incapable of thinking.
“You like him, eh? You’ve got a
sympathetic nature and can give him a
good home among classics? Dear, dear,
how it must hurt him to be an unread,
unappreciated classic —like my nephew,”
he whispered as the dark youth passed
back along the shop. “It must be awful
not to have work to do or to be unread.”
I thought so, too.
Now I had a window which was loose.
It would be rather intriguing to puzzle
the fellows —that gross materialist Smith,
for instance. “How much do you want
for it?” I asked.
He glowed. “Ah, sir, from a man
who will read him and give him a good
home I only want two pounds ten.”
I looked the book over. It wasn’t so
very old—lB30 —but well bound and in
good condition, and I had never seen an-
other copy. Also there was that super-
natural business. A haunted book!
I pulled out ten shillings.
“I’ll buy it,” I said, “if you’ll take
this deposit till I call back later.”
“Certainly, sir, I’ll get you a receipt,”
he pattered pleasedly off.
IT was almost dark as I came back along
that little street. At the far end a big
illuminated sign was saying in words
appearing separately, one after another,
“Funnell’s for Funerals,” “Funnell’s for
Funerals,” in constant repetition.
“Clever how they do that,” I said to
myself—“sort of player-piano cylinder—
certain groups of holes make certain
words.” I started to laugh ; by Odin and
Thor, a thought had struck me.
“Here’s the two quid.” I handed the
notes to the little innocent old bookseller.
“I’m sure you’ll appreciate him,” he
said as he wrapped the book.
“Sure,” I agreed, “and also the genius.
I wonder if he’d come out to my place
and do a little electrical job for me?”
“Sure,” replied the gnome, with a
bright smile. “I’m sure he’d do it for
about a coupla quid.”
How did he ki*pw? His quote was
quite pat.
I am told that that gross materialist
Smith has a haunted Petronius for which
he paid ten guineas. I can’t say for cer-
tain, because he and I don’t speak now.
By R.W. COULTER.


I
I
Nature s largest,most amazing underground display!—The
Carlsbad Caverns of New Mexico, close by a main trans-
continental train route. A vast museum of buried monu-
ments and palaces, carved in flowing rock and colored
crystal—easily accessible and comfortably explored! A
NEW incentive to the travel-curious, added to such alluring
points as Boulder Dam, with its fast-filling man-made lake
. . . the Mesa Verde cliff dwellings . . . the great sweeping
Plains . . . and fascinating cities that mark with towering
majesty each thrilling milestone!
Not far but NEAR, within your reach—prefaced by the age-
old glamour of the South Sea trail . . . New Zealand, Fiji,
Samoa, Hawaii... sailed by the new, Matson-Oceanic liners
“Mariposa” and “Monterey” ... to California in 18 days!
In America, the facts of travel are Economy, Luxury, Elas-
ticity. That means you go where you like, stop where you
will, change plans at a whim . . . enjoy yourself!
America’s railroads make this possible. They whisk you in
supreme comfort over 3000 miles in 75 hours, with but a
single change of cars. They provide a constant service that
is hotel-life-on-wings . . . restfulness of Pullman sleeping
cars ... delights of superb cuisines .. . diversions of smart
club cars . . . attention of an efficient staff, including valet
and ladies’ maid! Throughout the trains they regulate your
“climate” —by air-conditioning —maintaining the weather
always as you want it. And their fares are uniformly low.
Why not let your Travel Agent, or our offices, plan your
voyage to America, and remind you it’s the shortest, finest
route to ENGLAND? All details in an illus-
trated booklet, “England Across America,”
free upon request by phone, call or letter.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION Rt'REAU
Matson Line • Oceanic Line
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney - Phone: B-7981-3
Nature’s largest underground wonder . . Carlsbad Cavern of New Mexico
w.
• l
' uV*
Hi
m
’ i'W 7 .k
m
Wi
a
)f
w
J
W
''i]l
_\
rt
U'i
$
•..1
m-2A
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
According to a “Saturday Evening
Post” writer, the U.S.S.R. had 15,000
visitors from the U.S.A. during the
European summer, and a good half of
them were school-teachers, chiefly femi-
nine. And, one and all, the school-
misters and -marms “packed an invisible
armor of prejudice along with the soap
and bug powder they had been advised
to take.” For, after 18 years of the
Glorious Revolution, the Communist
paradise is still short of soap, and insect
powder is a regrettable necessity.
* * * *
A British general-election item over-
looked by the cableman was the almost
total extinction in Scotland of the Liberal
party that used to be supreme in that
country. Three or four alleged Lib. Nats.,
who are reluctant to proclaim them-
selves Conservatives, are left, but there
is only one Opposition Lib. In effect,
the sole survivor of a party that in 1906
won 58 Scottish seats out of 72, and
after the two 1910 elections entered the
Great War period with the same number.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Wonderfully efficient
people these Yanks! Only a few weeks
ago travellers returned to Australia after
having had as fellow-passenger during
part of the voyage a handsome young
American who was understood to be the
husband of Claudette Colbert. He was
in the film game himself and on his way
to take some island pictures. Now comes
the announcement that Miss Colbert has
married at Yuma (Arizona) a Los
Angeles physician, the whole story of
divorce, courtship and marriage having
been compressed into a few brief weeks.
Yuma is a favorite honeymoon spot for
Hollywooders—why, it is hard to tell, for
it is a mere spot in the middle of the
desert.
* * *
“Dungeness”: Great Britain seems to
be setting out to improve the world’s
beauty on mass-production lines. Last
year British factories turned out 537,000
gallons of hair-lotions, 1600 tons of face-
and skin-creams, 1300 tons of face-
powder, 14 tons of lipstick, 4000 tons of
perfumed bath-salts and 700,000 gallons
of eau-de-Cologne and other scent-
liquids. They sell in England alone at
the rate of £125,000 a week. What
made me interested in the subject was
my last meeting with old Jimmy Fowl-
house, a valued friend who lives at Cape
York (N.Q.), and his elderly spouse.
Asking what she would like me to send
her from Sydney, she coyly confessed to
a desire for red pfeller stick of grease,
puttum along mouth all same white
Mary, Thursday Island. I’ve sent her
a supply of nail-lacquer, too, with
sketched instructions for use ; but I hope
the old dear doesn’t get them mixed with
the lipstick.
* * * *
“A. Major”: I’d like “Mironton” (B.
8/1/’36) to divulge who it' was
“authoritatively established years ago”
that the air “Malbrouck” is a Saracen
military march brought back to Europe
by the Crusaders. Gustave Chouquet,
one-time keeper of the Museum of the
Conservatoire de Musique, Paris, and a
great savant of musical archaeology,
sifted all the evidence. He traced the
legend of Saracen origin to Chateau-
briand, who had heard Arabs sing the
ditty in Palestine, but says “no musician
can entertain this idea for a moment.
The breadth of the phrasing, the major
mode and the close on the dominant are
as characteristic of the popular tunes of
the time of Louis XIV. as they are un-
like the unrhythmical melodies of the
Middle Ages.”
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Harvard University
(Mass.), which has come into the news
as the recipient of 100,000 dahlars from
financier Lamont, is just across the river
at Boston, and actually part of that city,
though it stands in the municipality of
Cambridge. Harvard is the pride of
every wealthy New Yorker who doesn’t
happen to favor Yale. The two are like
Oxford and Cambridge to the English-
man : other universities don’t count.
As a physical fact, Harvard is not im-
pressive ; its grounds are all too small,
and the buildings—old and poorly
finished —stand back just far enough to
admit of some foliage before the foot-
path arrives. The walls of the main
stairs are of brick, whitewashed, and the
floors are naked planks. I offended some
perfectly decent New Yorkers by telling
them that if they wanted to see a uni-
versity they ought to visit Stanford, in
California. They were as deeply hurt
as an English gentleman would be if I
had suggested Birmingham or London
in preference to Oxford. But, whatever
its educational standards, Stanford is a
dream-place. The walls are cased with
polished marble or exquisite tiling, and
the floors are either carpeted or tiled.
Of all the university buildings I have
seen, Stanford stands alone. And the
whole outfit was built by the benefac-
tion of one man, Leland Stanford, as a
memorial to a son who had died young.
A brother lived almost a lifetime in Mel-
bourne, where he represented a sewing-
machine firm.
* * * *
“G.M.”: The bumping-off of a Minne-
sota editor reminds me of another affair
of the kind that took place in Canton
(Ohio) while I was on a visit to the Great
Republic. The editor had been cam-
paigning against a bootleg gang. Three
gunmen were posted in the street, each
in a different place, to meet him as he
came out for lunch. The moment he
appeared all opened fire, shot him to
pieces and scattered. They were never
found, but investigators working on other
clues discovered that none of the gunmen
knew the others. Each had been brought
from a spot a thousand miles from Canton
and from towns far apart. The value of
this scheme was that if one had happened
to be captured or wounded he could not
implicate his mates, and there was less
chance of the conspiracy being revealed
with only one witness as compared with
thfee.
* * * *
“Mehari”: Those who have been argu-
ing in The Bulletin as to the merits or
otherwise of camels as military mounts
will be glad to hear that the supercilious
haggin has helped the British forces in
Egypt to determine a very important
point. There have been many experi-
ments to find a motor tyre which will
give the best results for transport lorries
and armed motor-cars over soft sands,
such as the Sinai desert, and the tyres
adopted at last are made to work at a
very low inflation pressure. Some genius
thought of the camel during the tests,
and it was ascertained' that its pad-like
foot so distributed the weight of the
beast over the tread that the load was
6|lb. to the square inch only. Following
this tip, the tyres were made with a sec-
tion of 10| inches, and it was found that
a car fitted with four of these, the front
inflated only to 101 b. per square inch and
the back to 131 b., would carry a load of
30cwt. over country where a lorry with
tyres of smaller section could not take
lOcwt.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: England is full of ancient
parsons who in the long ago won their
blue for cricket at one or other of the
universities. They are rarely seen save
at the Oxford-Cambridge match at
Lord’s, when many of them emerge from
their rural retreats to swap reminiscences
with their fellows. The doyen of these
is Arthur Winter, 91 n.o. the oldest
cricket blue. He played for Cam-
bridge in 1865-6-7 ; according to Wisden,
he also played for Middlesex.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or ala Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geneial banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady with nursing and travelling exp. desires
engagement in charge children or as nurse-
companion to lady travelling overseas. Refs. —
9988.
Young lady (26), Sydney, 11 years’ exp. typist
and confidential clerk to country solicitor, wants
city position.—9886.
Karitane nurse, Sydney, M.L. trained, exp.,
wants position in care of children going to
England.—9937.
Upholsterer (30), married, wants position,
wages or contract, in North Queensland or
Fiji. Used to tropical climate. —9970.
Teacher, bachelor, wants position as tutor
or in private school; all subjects, art and sing-
ing, S.A. or Vic. country district preferred.—
9966.
Packer, Sydney, many years’ exp. in crockery,
glassware and hardware in leading warehouses,
wants employment.—9949.
Qualified mining engineer, Sydney, long ex-
perience prospecting and testing gold alluvial
areas, seeks employment.—9996.
To hear from persons who can tell of locali-
ties in N. S. Wales where licorice-plant is
growing, wild or otherwise.—9976.
To buy, cheap, files of The Bulletin for
1914, 1918 and 1925, immaterial if slightly
cut. —9979.
To buy particulars of the pari-mutuel
system of betting.—9924.
To buy Scapegoats of the Empire, by
Witton. —5.
Information Sought.
What are the details of Metcalfe’s record
hop, step and jump of 51 ft. 9 \in. ? —9829.
Approximately 112ft. run, 18ft. hop, 16ft.
step and 17ft. jump.
* * * *
What does the “deferred-sailing” clause of
the Seamen’s ( Federal ) Award provide for ?—
9935.
The clause is as x follows: No. 27. (1) On
the day of departure pf the ship from any
port a clock-time appointed for departure shall
be clearly stated on a notice-board fixed in a
conspicuous place at the gangway, and if any
change be made the substituted clock-time shall
be likewise stated as early as may be practic-
able. (2) The clock-time at which the ship will
depart shall be estimated as closely as may
be practicable in the circumstances by or on
behalf of the employer before any such clock-
time is so stated, and no clock-time shall be
so stated except that so estimated. (3) If the
ship does not depart within one hour after
the clock-time first so stated the employer shall
be deemed to have committed a breach of the
last preceding sub-clause unless compliance
therewith is proved, and the maximum penalty
for each such breach'is fixed at £10. (4) Every
delay of the ship beyond the clock-time first
stated on the notice-board is covered by the
ordinary rate of wage prescribed in this award,
and no employee shall on account thereof be
entitled to any overtime or extra payment.
* * * *
Is the superannuation fund of the N.S.W.
railways self-supporting ? —9906.
No. Contributions are deducted from fort-
nightly earnings, and such deductions are placed
to the credit of a special fund. From this fund
payments of superannuation, pensions, gratuities
and refunds are issued, the deficiency being
made up out of tax-revenue. There is always
a large deficiency.
* * # *
Any certain method of increasing adult
height ? —9856.
No certain method. Physical culture and
stretching movements assist in the years before
maturity by developing the lines of growth.
Best plan is to join a physical culture class
where movements will be graded by require-
ments.
* * * *
What is the effect of onion juice and honey
used as a remedy for bronchial asthma ?
Would prolonged use benefit the sufferer ?—■
9819.
The active constituent (Allyl sulphide ) of’
onion juice is expectorant and mildly antisep-
tic; hence its value in asthma and bronchial
affections. Although by no means a specific,
the combination with honey is popular.
* * * *
Titles (with author’s names ) of some novels
dealing with the early Australian goldfields ?—•
9493.
Rolf Boldrewood’s Nevermore, Robbery
Under Arms, The Miner’s Right, The Last
Chance and The Sphinx of Eaglehawk deal
with the early mining days, and the fact that
he was a warden on the goldfields makes them
authoritative. For Turon' Gold, by John
Sandes, has as its location the N. S. Wales
diggings; E. Barnard Eldershaw’s novel A
House Is Built has a chapter dealing with the
genesis of goldmining in N. S. Wales, and
Ernest Well’s Hemp gives a picture of Mel-
bourne in the throes of the gold fever; Henry
Handel Richardson’s trilogy The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony describes life on the Ballarat
diggings. A recently-published book dealing
with the goldfields days is Human Drift, by
Leonard Mann.
* * * *
Are cows’ tails suitable for making hair
mattresses ? How are such mattresses made ?
—9855.
Cow- or horsehair may be used. It should
be washed in hot, soapy water containing
ammonia, rinsed plentifully, and dried in heaps
on sheets or clean bags. Prepare the mattress
case from good ticking or unbleached calico,
and sew it very firmly in the seams. Fill the
teased hair into the case to the desired thjck-
ness, distribute it evenly, and then put a stitch
of stout twine every 18in. apart, right through
the whole mattress, to keep the hair from shift-
ing about. Tie the stitch off on the wrong
side. Small leather discs may be used to keep
the twine from pulling out, but are not essen-
tial.
* * * *
Best and quickest way to propagate fuchsias
and heeria ? —9929.
Select seasoned cuttings of last year’s wood,
place them in a mixture of equal parts of loam
and sand, then cover under glass for at least
a month to force root-growth. Harden the
cuttings by lifting the covering. The plants
should be ready for the open garden in April
—about three months ahead. Both these
plants will need covering against severe frosts,
and thrive best in an easterly position.
* * * *
Is home-saved sweet-pea seed suitable for
growing in the same soil as last year ? Any
hints to help a beginner ? —9917.
Full-bodied seed saved from plants free from
disease is quite suitable. Cross-fertilisation by
bees, however, may produce streaky colors:
remove these plants as soon as noticed. It is
advisable to purchase a few new varieties in
order to strengthen your stock of colors. Be-
fore sowing sweet-pea seed trench the beds
at least 2ft. deep, then mix into it a big dress-
ing of lime. A fortnight or three weeks later
rotted stable or cow manure can be incorpo-
rated. As the plants grow, train them on wire-
netting trellis, and, should mildew or rust
appear, spray with lime-and-sulphur (trade
strength). An easterly or nor’-easterly position
sheltered from wind is the best situation.
* * * *
Are oyster-shells, seaweed and fish scraps
helpful in the flower garden as fertilisers ?
9940.
Seaweed is an excellent fertiliser, especially
for sandy soils. Spread it out in the sun for
a few weeks to evaporate the salt, then dig it
well through the soil. In heavy soils it is
best to chop the seaweed into small pieces be-
fore using. Oyster-shells contain a great deal
of lime, and should be burnt and then crushed.
Where fish residue (heads, bones, etc.) is plenti-
ful it will help considerably if placed around
strong-growing plants such as dahlias and
chrysanthemums.
* * * *
(1) When should strelitzia seed be gathered. ?
(2) When planted ? (3) To what depth should
seed be planted? (4) Position? (5) When
should plants be separated? —-9884.
(1) They can be taken off when the seed-
pods turn brown, then placed in the sun for
a time, when the pods will open up, or they
can be left on the plant until the pdds com-
mence to open and then collected. (2) In
spring or autumn in pots or seedpans, using
a light soil. Place in a sheltered positiqn until
germination takes place. (3) About |in. (4)
When planting out, select a well-drained, sunny
position. They thrive reasonably well in
part shade. (5) No separating is required
unless when plants have spread fairly well it
is desired to increase the number. There is no
difficulty about separating.
* * * *
Best method of growing and training wistaria
on a trellis ? Which kind flowers longest, and
names of the varieties ? —2O.
Place strong supports in position (preferably
iron pipes, which will last for years) and fasten
the growth to uprights till the desired height is
reached, then train the limbs in required direc-
tion, fastening every 3ft. Do not let young
plants bloom until the third year. Old plants
should be pruned back to three eyes. The
colored blooms are the best, the white kinds
being easily bruised. The listed varieties are
Multijuga alba (white), Multijuga (dark purple),
Sinensis alba (white), Sinensis (lavender) and
Sinensis FI. pi. (a beautiful double blue).
* * * *
I set out 100 snapdragon plants and 90 per
cent, of them died during recent wet weather.
What was the reason ? Is there any way of
saving such plants ? —3.
Faulty drainage, which causes fungus and
wilt trouble, has much to do with the heavy
losses of snapdragons. Next time, before
setting out, put in layers of stones to carry
off surplus water. An excellent way to grow
snapdragons is to use raised beds, the edges
of which can be planted with lobelias
or similar low-growing annuals. A dressing of
sand given to heavy soils will help snapdragons
to fight against disease.
* * * *
Is it harmful to prune spartium (or broom )
shrubs ? —9990.
Since brooms thrive best when left alone,
these shrubs must be pruned only where the
growth is over-abundant or likely to interfere
with other garden subjects. Sometimes the
shrubs after cutting develop “die-back” or
rotting in the limbs. Should pruning be neces-
sary, do the work in July, after the new
growth has hardened. The limbs are tubular,
therefore see that the secateurs are very sharp
so as to minimise bruising.
* * * *
My Ards Rover and Dorothy Perkins rose-
bushes are badly affected with mildew. How
should I treat them ? —9999.
Both these roses are subject to mildew,
especially in wet weather. Cut back the worst
of the affected limbs, and spray bushes with
lime-sulphur solution (trade strength), or dust
with powdered sulphur. Be sure to treat the
underpart of the leaves, where the spores
abound. Give another spray in July after the
annual pruning. A tablespoonful of sulphate
of potash or a spade of wood-ashes worked
into the soil at the base of the roses will do
much to help arrest the spread of the mildew.
Get rid of thistles growing near the roses;
these weeds do much towards breeding the
trouble.
*** * .
Recipe for preserving ginger in syrup ? ■
9844.
Wash the roots, scrape off the skin with a
knife and cut into neat pieces. Boil in very
slightly-salted water until soft enough to pierce
with a knitting-needle. Take out and drain.
Make a strong syrup of sugar and water, about
one cup sugar to one pint water, and boil;
let cool a little, drop in the ginger, and boil
gently until the liquid has almost evaporated.
Remove to clean paper spread on a dish, drain,
then roll in castor sugar. Wrap when cool in
greaseproof paper, and store in boxes or jars.
* * * *
What home treatment is advised for whoop-
ing-cough ? —9823.
In the early stages a simple expectorant mix-
ture is of value, and during the paroxysm a
cresoline vaporiser may be employed as re-
quired. Meanwhile either turpentine liniment
or whooping-cough embrocation should be
applied to the chest night and morning for
relief. A change of climate is advised with
convalescence. Simple remedies are butter and
sugar for cough, with a chest application of
garlic juice and olive oil. Keep the child warm
and protected from chills.
* * * *
How to make orange wine ? —9287.
Take a quantity of oranges, cut them
through, squeeze out all juice and pulp into
an enamel tub, then add half the bare skms,
cut up, to the juice. Cover with boiling
water, and leave for a week with a muslin
cover to exclude the dust. Strain the juice
inlo a pan, add 11b. sugar to every gallon ot
liquid, and bring to the boil. Keep just below
boiling point for 20 minutes, then set aside to
cool. When cool, place in a slightly canted
barrel with the bung out, and whisk in one
large cup of yeast to every five gallons ot
liquid. Leave for two days, then close the
barrel and leave for a week. To use, add a
little mineral water to the wine, or a small
quantity of sherry. Beware of making an
overproof liquid—more than 2 p.c. of alcohol
is against the law.
:Jc ❖ * *
Particulars of the Bauhinia tree ?—' 9720.
It is sub-tropical in habit, being distributed
throughout the more northerly parts of eastern
Australia. It is deciduous, occasionally wide-
spreading, and the seed-pods resemble strips
of red leather. Bauhinia carroni grows to a
height of 20ft. or 40ft.; the wood is light-
brown, hard and heavy, and suitable for
veneer work. This variety is also known as
Queensland ebony, and by the natives of the
Cloncurry River as pegunny. Bauhinia hookeri
(mountain ebony) is similar in growth, with a
wide-spreading head and large white flowers
edged with crimson; the wood is dark-reddish,
hard, heavy and suitable for veneers.
* * * *
Best method of growing cannas to force
better blooms ? —9716.
Dig up the plants every year, remake the
beds rich with stable manure and plant the
most healthy root-sections or rhizones about
12in. apart. To heavy soils the addition of
sand is a decided help. Cut off all decayed
flowers and thus stop seed-forming pods—the
biggest strength-takers of these strong-growing
plants.
* * # *
(1) What are the nature and horticultural title
of a plant called “bleeding heart” ? (2) When
should it be planted ? —9699.
(1) The trade-name is Dielytra spectablis.
It is an herbaceous plant and bears heart-
shaped pink-and-white flowers on arched
stems. It is very showy, and suitable for both
open garden and conservatory. The crowns
should be set an inch below the surface. (2)
Old plants can be divided in February or
March, but the disturbance often means
' absence of blooms in the following year.
* * * *
Formula for grafting wax ? —9733.
For use when warm: lib. tallow, 21b. bees-
wax, 41b. resin; melt and stir together until
thoroughly dissolved, and stand the vessel in
a dish containing boiling water while being
used. For use when cold: lib. mutton suet,
21b. pitch, 41b. beeswax, 41b. turpentine; melt
and stir slowly over a low fire. When cold
roll into balls.
* * * *
Has the fiftieth anniversary of Belgium’s pos-
session of the Congo been marked by com-
memorative stamps ? If so, M’hat are the color-
ings ? —9353.
Yes; by seven denominations, all ot one
design, which includes portraits of Leopold 1.,
Leopold 11., Albert and Leopold 111. De-
nominations are: 50c. green, lfr. 25c. carmine,
lfr. 50c. brown-lilac, 2fr. 40c. red-orange,
2fr. 50c. blue-green, 4fr. lilac, sfr. brown-
black.
* * * *
Can you tell me something about the British
Virgin Islands ? —8444.
A group numbering about 30, situated be-
tween the Greater and Lesser Antilles. Area,
58 square miles; population (1921), 5082. The
chief islands of the group are Tortola, Virgin
Gorda, Anegada and Jost Van Dykes. Road
Town, on the south-east of Tortola, the only
town and capital, is the port of entry. Sugar-
cane is cultivated, and a fair trade in livestock
and poultry is carried on.
* * * *
Is there another version of the stanza from
Richard Gifford’s poem “Contemplation”
which reads: —
Verse sweetens toil, however rude the sound;
She feels no biting pang the while she sings;
Nor, as she turns the giddy wheel around;
Resolves the vicissitudes of things.
—9765.
Samuel Johnson altered the second line to:
“All at her work the village maiden sings”;
and in the third line substituted “while” for
“as.”
Are the Aleutian Islands inhabited, and, if
so, by what race ? —9OBB.
Yes, by people known as Aleuts, a branch
of the Eskimo stock, whom they resemble
in features and language, although they have
by now become largely hybrid.
Brief Answers.
H.W.: A list of “Dormant Funds in Court”
(Chancery) may be inspected at the Public
Library, Bent-street, Sydney. No fee is
charged L.D.: It was unwise to tamper
with the printed endorsement. Unless the
books were sold to you on an expressed or
implied condition that they were. to be sold
at sixpence each, you are not bound by that
price. You could, without interfering with
the printed endorsement, attach your own label
stating your price. The case referred to had
features apparently not applicable to your own.
.... J.S.B.: The Lily Year-Book (5s.), pub-
lished by the Royal Horticultural Society,
London... .E.W.M,: Leading Sydney florists
may help you to find a suitable person....
C. : The only method of starch reduction
in bread used commercially in Australia is
a patented process (“Procera”) C.N.C.:
Write Dalgetys, 15 Bent-street, Sydney
B.T.: There is no simple textbook dealing
with Australian shells. “Water Life,” pub-
lished by the “Sun-News Pictorial,” Melbourne,
price 6d., gives some account of notable
shells, with a colored plate. A series ol
articles by Joyce Allan on Australian shells
is now being issued in the “Australian
Museum Magazine,” which appears quarterly,
price Is A.K.W.: See W. E. Roth’s “North
Queensland Ethnography”; Bulletin No. 8,
“Government, Morals and Crime,” pp. 9-10;
A W. Howitt’s Native Tribes of South-East
Australia, pp. 691-710; and W. Robertson’s
Coo-ee Talks, pp. 63-4 and 108-11....C.R.:
Write A. E. Smith and Co., 9 Hunter-street,
Sydney C.C.G.: Write Burns, Philp and
Co., 7 Bridge-street, Sydney S.H.: Best
plan is to approach aeroplane-construction
cos. Most of the N.S.W. firms are located at
Mascot L.M.: Write Australian Broadcast-
ing Commission, 264 Pitt-street, Sydney....
G. : Abyssinian Journey, by Marcel
Griaule (10s. 6d.), Abyssinia on the Eve, by
Ladislas Fargo (12s.), and Mussolini’s Italy.
by Dr. Herman Finer (27s. 6d.) —all obtain-
able leading booksellers... .P.H.: The Tah-
moor district is suitable for the production of
apples, pears and tomatoes, and vegetables
such as peas, carrots, cauliflowers and cabbages
on suitable localities P.M.: No such law.
In England, as here, the woman may obtain
redress by an action for damage on the ground
of breach of promise to marry. Where there
has been no promise she has no redress
F.F.H.: (1) One who attains eminence in any
walk of life without advantages of wealth or
favoritism. (2) Can’t say; the matter is too
personal M.M.C.: The pelvis or base of the
kidney is affected in an acute pyelitis; chronic
symptoms may initiate a general nephritis.
Symptoms demand attention. See the doctor
who operated L.B.C.: It is a trade remedy
advertised in the U.S.A. No supplies here
D. : No separate lists of Commonwealth
public servants are issued by the Federal
Public Service Board, but lists of all perma-
nent officers of central staffs (including De-
fence and Customs Departments) as at J«me
30, 1935, and Postmaster-General’s Depart-
ment (all States) as at June 30, 1934, are
obtainable from the Government Printer, Can-
berra, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. respectively B.L.:
See Simple Aids to Sanitation, issued by the
N.S.W. Health Department, and obtainable
from Government Printer, Sydney, 2s. 3d.
posted T.J.: Kingsford Smith crossed the
Atlantic from Ireland to Harbor Grace (New-
foundland) on June 23-24, 1930... .B.C.: For
dandruff elimination, rub a scalp pomade or
refined mutton fat into the hair roots when
dry; massage the scalp daily with bay rum
and glycerine. Shampoo once weekly with soft
green soap and hot water. Meanwhile give
attention to health in general, and avoid head-
wear that restricts scalp circulation A.C.M.:
(1) It is a reddish-violet crystalline salt soluble
in water, and obtained by the action of acetic
acid on cobaltous hydroxide, with subsequent
crystallisation. Sp. gr., 1.7043. It is used in
making sympathetic inks and varnishes used
to color oilcloth. (2) No. (3) From Elliott’s
and Australian Drug Co., 20 O’Connell-street,
Sydney, Is. lOd W.W.S.: The turkeys may
be infested with body parasites, or the legs
may be irritated by thorny weeds. If parasites
are found, dust the birds with sulphur or other
insecticide Q.D.: Write Marconi School of
Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney R.S.P.:
Send full postal address, including name of
State C.G.B.: (1) There is a German Con-
sulate in Brisbane. (2) Get in touch with Capt.
Kohler, care Gilchrist, Watt and Sanderson, 5
O’Connell-street, Sydney. (3) A passport is
necessary for a person of any nationality
M.B.: Not so far as can be traced... .F.M.R.:
The population of N. S. Wales at September
30, 1935, was estimated to be 2,649,828....
H. : (1) The tubes are made by W. Horse-
fall and Co., Coppin-street, Richmond, Vic.
(2) Machines for filling the tubes are manu-
factured by R. Bodington, Queensberry-street,
Carlton, and Smith and Wreidt, 137 Johnston-
street, Fitzroy—both Melbourne C.D.: To
clean coins and medals, immerse in lemon-
juice until oxidation is entirely removed, a full
day being generally sufficient W.B.: There
is no market here at present for air bladders
from fish. The whole of the isinglass (which
is prepared from air bladders) used in Australia
is imported, and it is very doubtful whether
manufacturers would be interested unless regu-
lar and adequate supplies could be guaran-
teed H.M.F.: The manufacture of tobacco
is governed by the Federal Excise Act, which
prohibits it unless by a licensed person,
who must pay excise duty on every pound of
tobacco manufactured. Unless you are pre-
pared to take out a license your operations
should be discontinued C.L.B.: Write Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra I.M.M.:
The use of “esq.” in addressing letters is no
longer general, and may be replaced by “Mr.”
in all applicable cases without appearance of
discourtesy.... (Many others mailed.)


beyond belief
beyond compare
< i _
Released
beyond all previous standards of safety
beyond any other thrifty car
r y ’ ‘
JcHE NEW
SEUA*
Tax
Saifs
plus
lficl« dino
n Safety <*—
roll THE.
Windscreen
\ y
/ \
'Tsm? \
'"'Wt
m
V«
***&*<jsii
mm
t’•VvFy-'-v.v.v. .• . •.< .• /
\'» < ‘ „ ✓
-
E
. . / V
f'"> ■ w
<sa x *
M -
r ,
' * 1 j
m
m
ms
v.V>'>V
THE SMARTEST BODY STYLES EVER OFFERED AT THE
PRICE
Never before at such a price has there been anything like the New 1936
Chevrolet . . : Never such value . ; . Amazing value that’s just pounds
ahead of price;
For this revolutionary new Chevrolet brings you all the good things of
motoring at- low cost ; . : at the lowest price of any six cylinder car in
Australia. ‘ •
Brilliant body styling, safety bodies by Holden, strong, and quiet, with
chrome-plated radiators and Armourplate Safety Glass V Windscreen that
will not discolour nor shatter.
Perfected Hydraulic Brakes giving a smooth, positive and quicker stopping
power : i . High Compression performance with a Valve-in-Head engine
that gives an unexcelled combination of power and economy ; . : No
Draught Ventilation to give plenty of fresh air withont draughts . . .
Equalised Springing and Longer Wheelbase to give smoother, balanced
ride . , . and Complete Equipment.
The 1936 Chevrolet is a joy to drive, thrilling your pulse and saving your
purse. See it at your local dealer’s .. . drive at his invitation, remembering
as you check over the features that make this such a fine car . . ; that
Chevrolet is absolutely complete there are no extras to buy.
GEN ER A L MOTORS HOLDEN’S LIMIT ED.
Roadster Commercial - £265
Roadster Sports £275
Tourer £2BO
Coupe Commercial £295
Coupe Sports • < £3OB
Sedan £3lB
Prices include Safety Glass
Windscreen. All plus Sales Tax,
Consult
your local authorised
Chevrolet Car Dealer.
*
NEW PERFECTED
HYDRAULIC
BRAKES
Extra large in size, give posi-
tive braking power at a toe
touch. Independent mech-
anical handbrake.
ALL ENCLOSED
COUPE
Takes all passengers and
luggage inside. Rear seat
folds to give extra lug-
gage space. - ,
m.v
“ARMOUR PLATE” WINDSCREEN
Safety Glass that gives perfect vision and neither
shatters nor discolours.
HI G H COMPRESSION ENGINE
VALVE IN HEAD
N O D RAUGHT VENTILATION
ON SAFETY B6DIES BY HOLDEN
IMPROVED RIDING
Longer Wheelbase and Equalised Springs
. .
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.S.H.: “I have never before tried to get any-
thing into print. Will these contributions alter
that?” Not so far as The Bulletin is con-
cerned... .L.L.8.: There’s no £. s. d. in
that sort of tack. You must learn to rhyme
with reasonable correctness M.L.8.: That’s
a declension.. . .0.8. M.: We should say he’s
better ait penning sheep than at penning verses.
. ...W.J.T.: If your contribution was accom-
panied by a stamped envelope it must have
been returned to you before now. Certainly
the writer whom you are pleased to accuse of
plagiarism never saw it.,. .J.N.: “Lottery” is
all blanks... .D.G.W.: There’s some force in
it, but the rhymes are labored or tame
G.P.: The first stanza set our heads aching:
Spain, Spain, glorious Spain! Sun-kissed, pro-
gressive, smiling, sixteenth-century Spain!
Wretched, degrading, stifling, strangling poverty!
Fabulous riches to the selfish few from the
Main!
The home of the narrow, stern, egotistical, smug
conquistadore whose very nod was death,
Beautiful women, gay caballeros, dancers, songsters,
an exotic air, a romantic breath.
And there are 14 more on the same generous
lines. Have a heart, brother!... .W.W.: The
idea is good, but your versification has too
many creaks and jolts D.N.A.: A capital
peg for a scrap of jingle, but your execution
is weak... .M.L.8.: Flung together anyhow.
Some little pains and polish might make all the
difference to you... .L.J.H.: They’re out of
our line... .M.K.8.: It lacks swing... .J.S.:
It makes rather hard reading... .R.T.: Our
interest in Parisian dress-designers is very faint.
... .T.C.M.: “Moan-home,” “crops-stock”—
have you no ear for rhyme? J.W.A.: It
ripples along pleasantly, but that isn’t enough.
... .JIV.: Contained one or two bright patches,
eked out with colorless and oldish stuff. Short
article also fell down E. 8.: Too bald for
a story... .E.R.N.: Joke about the magazines
in doctors’ waiting-rooms is due for a rest
C.S.Y.: It’s true to life all right, but lament-
ably uninteresting R.G.H.: There’s some
good writing in the yarn, but the substance
doesn’t appeal. Have another shot with some-
thing that leads somewhere.. . .Remington:
Not quite suitable, but it has an authentic ring.
....J.S.: You need to prune and polish and
throw commonplaces overboard Bellerive:
There’s a certain homely simplicity in it that
goes to our hearts:
RECOLLECTIONS OF A STRAW HAT.
Out for a walk when the sun shone bright,
I liked a straw hat, being cool and light.
One Christmas eve at a crowded fair
Unthinking I laid it, down on a chair.
When a elderly lady, sluggish and fat,
. Sat down full-weight upon my straw hat.
“Lor’!” she exclaimed, and arose, from the chair,
“I sat on your hat, please pardon me/sir.”
. “Granted, dear madam,” was my. reply.-
“You are sorry,' arid so am I.” *
. ...A.J.G. and J.W.H.: Doesn’t make the
grade Tav.: “Dawn-morn”—begawn!
D C.: “Dawn Adventure” pleasant verse, but a
bit out of our line... .H. 1.: Contains too many
banal phrases:... Rip: Neither gets within
coo-ee... .A.E.: No ; the tear, ducts didn’t even
quiver... .E. 0.5.: , Field . stripped clean....
C.C.: Sorry; all miss.... .L.J.H.No , closer.
... .1.J.: Apart, from keen feeling for the suffer-
ings of: the blacks the. verses -have little merit.
... .M.N.: Fell at the last,hurdle... .H.M.H.:
They’re all outers.. ..J.D.:l.Candidly, it’s weak.
A.M.: Your tastes are simple, but the lan-
guage in which you express them-,is stilted:...
E.R.: “Of far-off fairy isles perchance .doth
croon.” Perchance, but not in this paper....
H.M.S-: -The long;piece is of too, limited, inter-
est and the others fall short of publication
standard... .Sarto: We gather, that you learnt
no more from the tree than from the old man.
A.P.R.: Too saccharine L.C.W.: No !
enough in it W.A.G.: Not badly done, but
doesn’t quite satisfy; worth giving a fly else-
where. .. .J.K.: Well told, but it’s an old stunt
M.P.: Put it in her album J.T.: it
doesn’t seem to express your thoughts so much
as what you think your thoughts should be
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
BJ.: Wash drawings streaky, pen drawings
scratchy A.T.M.: You seem to have dis-
covered a new kind of Australian abo. and l
hitherto unknown breed of cattle-d0g.,..
R.G.: That jest has been going the rounds
since the first signs of depression —A.L.:
You don’t draw anything but butter-boxes suc-
cessfully H.C.: Almost got there —it would
. have, with a fresh gag....D.P.: The child
needs lessons... .P.C.M.: Cannot make sense
out of your large and disorderly cartoon on
the international situation... .K.W.: Stiff and
angular figures and a mirthless batch of gags.
. ...A.J.T.: At' least the signature is nicely
printed.'.. .W.R.: Not altogether hopeless, but
you have a,long way to go L.N.: Another
addition to the office morgue C.S.: Easily
this week’s feeblest drawing... .A.K.: The
bathing belles are ugly, and their humor lacks
punch.. . .J.T. : Discharged under the First
Offenders’ Act.. ..R.S.: With a little more
polish ~you might creep through.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It is now clear that Cereza’s Carring-
ton Stakes form was all wrong. Tried
for the first time over seven furlongs, the
chestnut daughter of Heroic beat her
opponents in the Sefton Handicap at
Warwick Farm so convincingly that her
owner, A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt,
now looks to have a mortgage on the
Adrian Knox Stakes. Though the track
was slow, her time, lmin. 26sec., was
only quarter of a second outside the
course record, held jointly by Tom Pinch
and Hadrian. Cereza followed Bombus
to the home turn, and ran right away in
the straight from that horse and Short
Wave, who passed Bombus towards the
finish.
Cereza went from sixes to sevens ; Gay
Seton and King’s Head firmed to sixes.
Gay Seton beat two home, but King’s
Head, after making a forward move at
the turn, came in fourth. Pike did not
knock him about. Windbird was fifth,
and Flamari finished well up, after losing
lengths at the start and then being inter-
fered with when in the ruck.
Queensland pastoralist N. G. Elliott
gave 1700 guineas for Curator. If he
bets to any extent he must have got ii
all back on Saturday at fours and 7 to 2.
Knox was instructed to make all the
running on Curator in the Warwick
January Handicap, and this he did. Cele-
brate had him hard at it turning for
home, but Celebrate wilted at the Leger,
and Curator beat him easily. Spear Belle
(12 to 1) came home well to get third;
followed by Loud Applause, who was
too big a job for the little apprentice,
J. Britt.
Water Waggon (7 to 4) and John o’
Groats (3 to 1) proved much too good
for their opponents in the Nursery Han-
dicap divisions. The former dwelt at
the barrier, but his pace got him through
on the rails, and the rest was a proces-
sion ; Billy Boy, for whom the distance
(five furlongs) was too short, defeated
The Palmist for second place. John o’
Groats, a brother to Titanium and Dover
Patrol, had as easy a time in the other
division. McCarten rode both winners.
Nabob, a neddy from the bush, raced
on lease by Poison, made no mistake in
the Farm Novice, for which he was
favorite at threes. Nabob chased Trick
most of the way, and went past her at
the Leger ; Imagine (33 to 1) was third
—divs., £23 ss. for 10s. and (in
the Leger) £l7 os. 6d. for ss. Nabob
is by Red Gauntlet, almost a champion
sprinter in his day, from a Linacre King
mare. In the days of unregistered racing
in Sydney Linacre King, a stylish-look-
ing black, was a good performer.
Stalwart (6 to 4), who carries the colors
of W. H. Mackay, junior, won the
Maiden Handicap from Heracles and
Polywin. Gipsy Chief shaped well
enough to suggest an early success. He
is a brother to Baltimore.
Hugh Denison has a smart Heroic colt
in Heritor. Backed at fives and fours,
Heritor was out by himself over the last
half-mile of the Berala Handicap, even-
tually defeating Thebez by lengths. Badly
left with the favorite, Heroic Faith,
Cabalist put in a whirlwind finish. Moon-
ray and Cistura showed pace, and Ham-
merhead’s fourth was an effort which was
noted.
* * * *
On form and handicapping, Vice-Royal
really ought to win the A.J.C. Anniver-
sary Handicap. At the finish of Tatter-
sail’s Club Cup, Spear Prince was well
clear of Broad Arrow and Vice-Royal,
and those horses were just as far ahead
of the next lot. At one stage of the
struggle for second place Vice-Royal
looked sure to get it; but he was a bit
jaded after three strenuous races, and
the comparatively fresh Broad Arrow
beat him narrowly. For that Broad
Arrow has gone up 61b. to Bst. 101 b.,
Vice-Royal only 41b. to Bst. 51b. Three
times has Vice-Royal defeated Mr. Kerry
at recent meetings, the difference in the
first race being 101 b., yet Mr. Kerry still
has to give him lib. Still there is an im-
pression that the best has yet to be seen of
Curator (7st. 61b.), and if Miss Nottava
(7st. 91b.) can now run out a mile and
a half at the pace which she showed when
trying to beat Spear Prince for the lead
in the Summer Cup race, she may win
her second Anniversary.
* * * *
Arachne staged a remarkable return to
form by capturing the V.A.T.C. Tooronga
Handicap. One of the last three in the
V.R.C. Standish Handicap, less than three
weeks later she gave Great Legend 101 b.
and a beating at Caulfield, vanquishing
him by half a neck in lmin. 10|sec.,
which equals the course record for six
furlongs, established by Press Gang.
Heros and Great Legend shared
favoritism at 5 to 2; Titanium was
quoted at 9 to 2, and Donohoe’s mare
at half a point longer. Voitre attempted
a one-act victory on Great Legend, but
Skidmore kept Arachne within easy strik-
ing distance and joined issue as soon as
the straight was entered. A thrilling
tussle followed. Its most significant
feature was that Arachne revealed greater
stamina than people imagined she pos-
sessed. Arachne had Donohoe puzzled
by her Flemington display, but, being of
an optimistic temperament, he now is
“walking on air.” Heros also improved
on his New Year’s Day showing, though
he could make no impression on the
two leaders over the last furlong, and
was only a moderate third. Titanium
cut up badly, fading into sixth on the
post, behind Link Divine and Closing
Time, both of whom came home
strongly.
Pooley Bridge covered himself with
credit by carrying list. 121 b. and mak-
ing a dead-heat with Phocis (list.) in
the Hawthorn Hurdle. He is to be put by
and reserved for the Grand National, an
event which his trainer, Bert Foulsham,
won in 1925 with Pildin.
The juvenile event went to Cackle
(Windbag—Chickling), who squeezed
home by the narrowest of margins from
Toltec, a Chivalrous colt.
Surplus (Great Star—Brimming) came
from the clouds to vanquish Kanuri in
the first division of the Koakaribb Trial.
The late James Wilson raced his dam in
a Doncaster Handicap.
In the middle-distance Anniversary
Handicap Dick Devon was all out to
beat Red Ray by half a length, while
Aitchengee, the favorite, was a close
third. After being far back in the field
as the result of a tardy beginning, Villius
was close to the front half a mile from
home. He knocked up at the straight
entrance, as could only be expected. Dick
Devon is not in the Australian Cup—
Red Ray is, and may have to be reckoned
with. Petau was putting in excellent
work to run fourth. A six-year-old son
of Cyklon, the sire of Trivalve, he
appears to be progressing well in the
hands of James Scobie. Dick Devon is
trained by R. J. Shaw, who has the
Pantheon horse Hot Shot to rely on in
the second leg of the Flemington double.
One Australian Cup aspirant who
attracted notice at Caulfield was Ismarus,
a three-year-old colt by Thracian, sire of
Feldspar, and, like Feldspar, raced by
his breeder, A. T. Creswick. In the
spring Ismarus accompanied Feldspar
to Sydney as a mate in track gallops.
Although a maiden, Ismarus opened in
hot demand for the second Sivision of
the Koakaribb Trial. He had a rocky
passage in the betting, easing suddenly
from 5 to 2 to as much as 6 to 1, but
coming back to 5 to 2. Ismarus seemed
hopelessly out of the race when nearly
last at the half-way stage of an Si-
furlongs journey, but he finished with
amazing speed and courage to defeat
Blue Sign, an outsider, by a head.
Lou Robertson, who trains Ismarus,
will have another strong team this
autumn. The colt is out of Lady Yar-
rien, by ChrysOlaus from Staylace, by
Linacre. His breeding on both sides of
the pedigree is excellent.
Bite Again (7 to 1), a grey son of
Moabite, finished with a splendid burst
of speed to capture the Rowena Welter.
He is partly owned by R. M. Cuthbert-
son, M.L.C., who managed the business
affairs of Albert and Septimus Miller, of
Redleap fame.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Rudyard Kipling was in Aus-
tralia 40-odd years ago. There is a tradi-
tion in the “Argus” office that he was
offered £lOO to write the introduc-
tion to its Melbourne Cup report, but
the paper had to come out without any
specimen of his workmanship. Possibly
the bard had turned up the files to see
what introductions to Cup reports were
like, and had decided that a day at Fern-
tree Gully or some such place would be
better spent. In any case, he never had
much use . for horseracing or much
knowledge of'it.; In one of- his Indian
stories there is a jockey who came from
Perth, “a God-forgotten place in West
Australia” (later editions eliminated this
slur). The young man had learned his
riding in Melbourne, “where a few
stewards want lynching,” and had come
through the “awful butchery of the
Marybyrnong Cup, when several horses
went down and jockeys were killed or
injured.” The Marybyrnong Cup was “a
steeplechase”!
* * * *
Ben Nathan left Victorian estate sworn
at £1,087,903 ; and Victorians are now
wondering how much John Wren ,is
worth. Nathan .was Wren’s partner .in
some of his Victorian and Queensland
racecourse ventures and- Owned race-
horses as well, though he never had
anything of , much account. No doubt
he made most of his money in the Maple
furnishing business. Most rich men take
out probate insurance these days, but
Nathan did not bother, though he died
leaving £208,749 in the E., S. and A.
Bank. Two daughters share in equal
parts after the State and Commonwealth
Governments have divided about
£200,000.
* * * *
Shadow King has been retired from
active service ; and it was time. After
running fourth in his sixth Melbourne
Cup race (in the others he was second
twice, third twice and sixth), he was kept
in work and raced again and again. In
the case of a horse rising 11 years, it
was risking a breakdown, and all lovers
of the thoroughbred will be relieved to
know that the poor old fellow is not
fated to be bulleted on the racecourse
after a last hopeless struggle to head the
young ones ; or in a paddock after a
few months of limping about. His record
in Melbourne Cup races may never be
beaten. Comedy King sired a few
rogues, but the Australian turf has had
no gamer or honester horse than Shadow
King.
* * * *
Adelaide saw Phar Lap, racing in
Telford’s colors, win the King’s Cup in
1930, and it may have an opportunity of
seeing Peter Pan capture another of the
trophies for Rodney Dangar. His spell
at Bacchus Marsh has done the cham-
pion a great deal of good, and if he
stands another preparation he is likely to
be sent to Adelaide at the end of the
autumn. In any case, Marabou is a prob-
able starter, C. B. Kellow being anxious
to add a King’s Cup to his collection of
prizes, which began with the Austral
Wheel Race bauble at Melbourne 40
years ago. Peter Pan would, of course,
have 9st. 51b., which is the maximum
burden ; Marabou might get Bst. 61b., the
weight carried by Valparaiso (1929) and
Kuvera (1933). Unless Beamish Boy
comes good, local opposition will be
weak. Alinura is about the best horse
racing in S.A. this summer, and she is
far from first-class.
Peter Pan has been nominated for
the Sydney Cup, but perhaps only out
of curiosity as to the weight he will be
allotted.
* * * #
If the handicapper is not too hard
on him, Dulcedo ought to return
the expenses of his trip to Sydney, with
handsome interest. He has twice beaten
Spear Prince, giving him weight—in the
Welter Handicap at Brisbane, Ascot, on
September 28 and in the October Handi-
cap, same course, on October 10. In the
Welter he had Bst. 131 b., and Spear
Prince 7st. 1 lib.; the distance was a
mile, the track heavy, and Dulcedo won
in lmin. 40sec., a thing called Goodtail
separating him from Spear Prince. In
the October Handicap, Dulcedo (7st.
91b.) was first and Spear Prince (7st.)
second; Dulcedo’s advantage was three
lengths, and he ran the distance, a mile
and a quarter, in 2min. 4-|sec. Of course,
a mile and a quarter is not Spear Prince s
best distance, and he had not then run
second to Soft Step in the Queensland
Cup. In November Dulcedo (Bst. 71b.)
conceding 41b. to Faith Australia beat her
by five lengths in the Clayfield Handicap ;
10 furlongs ; 2min. 4|sec. It was Faith
Australia who, on the last Ascot meeting
in 1935, cut the Queensland record for a
mile and a half to 2min. 30isec.
Dulcedo is owned and trained by C.
E. Page, who is credited with the belief
that his four-year-old stallion will stay.
The breeding scarcely suggests that.
Dulcedo is by Promised Land —Belle
Trois.
$ * * *
“Gentleman Joe,” his story:
A lot of rot’s talked about ringing-in.
Where so many fall in is that they pick
something likely that has been getting in the
gonce at outside meetings and, after a bit of
faking, try to run him on a city course. My
game was to work the outback meetings and
only once so often. Little fish are sweet, and
a couple of rings a year four or five hun-
dred miles apart pays.
Bandy Andy and me had a good old miler
named Blowfly, who was getting too well
known. Exercise gallops didn’t pay for
entry fees or feed so we went for a coop.
There was the big annual at The Bridge in
Queensland, with two good mile races. We
enters Blowfly as Black Beauty.
The next thing was his tail. This was bald,
a mob of goats having eaten off: the hair
while the old boy was asleep in the paddock.
He was known by this, of course, from
Bourke to Ballina. We was considering the
matter one day at the pub stables in Didgeri-
doo when the town drunk staggers along and
goes to sleep under a tree.
He was a big man with the biggest and
curliest black beard I ever see. Bandy and I
looks at each other, gets the ’orse-clippers,
and the ziff’s off.
Early next day we breaks for the border.
On the way we do a bit of faking. A case
of walnut pickles from a store gives us a
good, natural black dye for Blowfly; and
Bandy, who’d been in the navy, what he called
“served” a tail on him from the beard that
became the pride of the old moke’s heart.
He near got curvature of the spine twisting
round to have a screw at it.
At The Bridge things goes well. The
women rushes Black Beauty because of his
lovely tail, and backs him on the tote to a
girl. We gets good prices in the Ring and
snavels both races without anyone taking a
rumble, as far as we could see.
We was rubbing Black Beauty down after
the second win when a mangy-looking cove
with “rook” written all over him comes up.
“G’day,” he says. “Haven’t I seen youse two
at Didgeridoo?” “No hope,” I says—“we’re
down from Windorah way.” “Windorah be
damned!” he says. “I’ve tumbled to your
lurk and I want a pony.” “What for?” says
Bandy. “For this,” says the gun, giving old
Black Beauty’s tail a pull.
The old moke was very intelligent. He’d
been listening to the chat and the tug at his
precious tail tore it fairly. He let go with
both hind feet, and gets the robber on the jaw.
Next day we collect, and going out on the
Mungindi road pass the hospital. There’s a
shine-looking nurse on the verandah. We asks
how the cove is that was kicked by the horse.
“He come to this morning,” she says; “but
all we can get out of him is his name.” “What
may that be?” I asks, polite. “Just Didgeri-
doo,” she answers.
Victoria won the field and track cham-
pionships at Hobart, scoring in 11 events
to N.S.W.’s 8. Backhouse put up an
Australian record (lmin. 55sec.) in the
880.
*■# * *
Because of rain, Sydney had to wait
till Saturday afternoon (it was to have
been the second day of the match) to
renew its acquaintance with Bradman.
Then the South Australians, losing the
toss had to bat on a pitch one end of
which was damaged, and they were all
out for 94. White, who promises to
become as useful as his Somerset name-
sake, got 8 for 31 and Hynes (1 for 25)
sent Bradman back for a biob, well
paught by Little. N.S.W. passed the S.A.
score with eight wickets in hand.
* * * *
Australia beat England for the dirt-
track motor-cycling “ashes” —they have
“ashes” for anything from ping-pong to
bridge these days —at Sydney Show-
ground, winning the third Test 44 to 28.
Grosskreutz again had a “possible.” He
has yet to be headed in tests this season.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
William Reid Stakes: Cardinal or
Press Gang ; next, Ogwell.
Caldermeade Handicap: Noel
Soldat; next, Petau.
Warrook Highweight': Sculpin;
next, Bullala.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
C. F. Orr Stakes: Cardinal or
Press Gang ; next, Feldspar.
Australia Day Cup: Nalda ; next,
Red Ray.
A.N.A. Handicap: Multudo ; next,
Chelandric.
FOR RANDWICK.
Bondi Handicap: Flamari or
Fanfare ; next, Fireman.
Challenge Stakes: Heritor, 1 ;
Heroic Faith, 2 ; Palm, 3.
January Handicap: Dulcedo:
next, Flamari or Spear Belle.
Paddington Handicap: Tingalba
or Fanfare ; next, Babili.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Cereza;
next, Valsard.
Anniversary Handicap: Curator,
1; Vice-Royal, 2 ; Miss Nottava, 3.


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
4,
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLIJSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
igfllPill
mm
illll
nil*,
The “HIGHLANDER”
WORK SHIRTS
Made from the finest cotton twill,
woven in distinctive tartan designs.
Price, 9/6 each; or 3 for 27/-
Colors are guaranteed fast.
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET - - BRISBANE
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Ambrose Palmer has changed his mind
about going back to England, and is to
box several opponents at the Sydney
Stadium, having, it is said, been guaran-
teed £BOO a fight. His first match will
be with Henneberry next month. Henne-
berry is a middleweight, and Palmer is
141 b. or 161 b. heavier. Fine boxer though
he is, Henneberry has never exhibited a
great love for the game, and a gruelling
mill with a heavyweight might conceiv-
ably sicken him of it. On the other
hand, if he licked Palmer, the Victorian
would never again be the attraction he
is now. It seems an ill-advised match,
though certainly not so idiotic as the
proposal to throw Carroll, a welter-
weight, into the ring with Palmer; but,
then, matchmaking seems a lost art in
Australia.
* * * *
Sydney’s Royal Hospital for Women
and the Eastern Suburbs Hospital got
£303 apiece out of the Carroll-Van
Klaveren takings. They amounted to
£4614 (shillings and pence excepted),
broadcasting and programmes swelling
the total to £4737. Of this the tax-
gatherers got £2BO, the Sports Ground
Trust £346, the boxers (there were six)
£2345 and the promoter (Lucas) £lOO.
Oh, yes ; the court cases have been with-
drawn, the Dutchman was surprised by
a newspaper photographer shaking hands
13ert • "My PRAJK?ie. Lily I
You're Misje i
It I wc=x/v=E3 LET Voi i ’
you B&A.ST Vouve TORN! MY FROCK.')
with Lucas, and he and Carroll are to
meet at the Sports Ground again.
Ins and Outs
The Australians had another easy trot
against the Border at East London. A
plucky 86 by White was the feature of
Border’s first essay of 209. O’Reilly
raged among the rest to the tune of 8
for 73. With nine wickets gone, the
tourists declared at 351, McCabe (115)
and Chipperfield (105) getting most of
the runs. Border’s second try yielded 128
(O’Reilly 5 for 32), and Australia won
by an innings and 14 runs.
* * * *
Queensland made another feeble show-
ing in the Shield match with South Aus-
tralia at Brisbane, being beaten by 10
wickets. The bright spot in the pro-
ceedings from the home side’s point of
view was the dismissal of Bradman by
Gilbert for 31 ; the champion had given
a couple of chances of stumping. Gilbert
took 5 for 87 in S.A.’s first knock of 340
(Ryan 144). Queensland’s innings were
205 and 163 (Ward 7 for 88 altogether).
The 29 to win were got by South Aus-
tralia without loss.
* * * *
“Kaikoura”: Rain robbed the Maryle-
boners of a slashing win in the first
Test match with M.L. at Dunedin. Clos-
ing at 653 for five, the tourists had seven
M.L. batsmen out for 205 in their second
innings. Then the weather took a hand.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: These cricket “incidents”
seem to be increasing. In the Test match
with Maoriland at Dunedin, Human,
captaining the team, wanted the new ball.
To reach the necessary 200 runs he
bowled 24 wides and no-balls. It is good
to hear the match was ended by the
weather before the manoeuvre could suc-
ceed. In the ’nineties the captain of one
of the teams in the Oxford-Cambridge
match instructed a bowler to send down
a couple of wides to prevent the others
following on. The dodge worked, but
it elicited such a storm of execration
all over the cricket world that pettifog-
ging practices of the kind vanished from
English cricket for years. The spirit of
cricket has changed a lot since the
’nineties.
* # % :{«
“Ibn el Issar”: The so-called All-India
“second” eleven has been the first to
defeat the Tarrantulas, winning by 68.
In their second innings, after Tarrant’s
lot had headed their first score of 149
by 17 runs, the sons of the soil made
301—a record score for Indian batsmen
against the Australians. Ryder led a fine
attempt to get the 285 to win with a
slashing 70. Morrisby (35) and Oxen-
ham (30) were the only ones to help,
and the innings closed at 216. Worth
noting that Oxenham (who got two for
14 in India’s first knock) could not bowl
in the second owing to a minor injury.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Marylebone Club, in
expressing its satisfaction with the work-
ing of the “new” l.b.w. law during 1935,
says it hopes it will be given the widest
possible trial at home and abroad. Its
adoption for all cricket in England is
advised —the final decision lies with the
county captains—and it is up to Aus-
tralia to consider the matter, for it will
certainly be called on to fall into line
when the Englishmen come here at the
end of the year. It is to be hoped that
the rule will be adopted and Australia
thus ranged with England, South Africa,
India and the West Indies.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Bradman’s meteoric revi-
val has spread panic throughout Eng-
land, which has thrown the thought of
sanctions to the winds to consider the
possibility of disaster awaiting the Eng-
lish team on its Australian tour. It is
early yet to haul down the flag. The
same bogey was laid before by Jardine
and Larwood, and it is not too much to
hope that another Gideon may arise to
smite the Antipodean Midianites.
« * * #
“Arid”: Reference in The Bulletin
to the growing practice of taking drinks
out on the cricket field on the slightest
excuse reminds me that the matter is
regulated by the rules for Test matches.
Rule 32 says: “Drinks shall not be taken
on the field to the same team more than
once in each period of play. Each day
is divided into three periods, vide
Rule 1.”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: The only Australian to
qualify in the 5000-dollar Los Angeles
tourney was Richardson, who returned a
card of 314 for four rounds. The winner
was Jimmy Hines, who has already scored
in the opening tourney this season. Aus-
tralia’s friend Thomson, the Berwick
player who won the Melbourne cen-
tenary open, tied with another Ameri-
can qamed Pickford for second place.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: A cable from the
U.S.A. has given rise to some doubts as
to what our players are up to. After
saying that the match with an American
team for the Lakes Cup will be played
somewhere in California on a course not
yet fixed, manager Campbell says the
team is planning to return in March, a
good deal earlier than expected.
“Brassey”: Golf is played extensively
in Nippon, though we do not hear much
of it or the standard of the game. The
Japanese have made such progress in
other European sports and games that
it would surprise no one to hear they
are able golfers. A leading American
athletic authority now in Sydney says
they respond wonderfully to intensive
coaching.
“Carnoustie”: The invitation from St.
Andrews for an Australian amateur team
to go over in 1938 is very explicit. It is
expressly stipulated that the Australians
shall not play in games of an inter-
national flavor, but in friendly matches
with various clubs and societies, as is the
case when St. Andrews teams go abroad.
The tourists will be the guests of the
Royal and Antient from the time they
arrive in Britain until their departure. A
solemn Warning is given that any tour-
ist desiring to play in an individual com-
petition must pay his own expenses while
so engaged.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: British women golfers
are sharpening their nails for an all-in
scrap in London on February 5, when it
will be decided whether women players
regarded as professionals will be allowed
to compete in the British women’s open
with the amateurs, as is the case with
the men. The girls’ golf union is strongly
divided on the question, and both sides
are beating up their forces.
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers are
determined to brighten up their cham-
pionship meeting, which begins on May
18 and this time will run the bare week.
Admission of Is. a day will be charged,
and it is hoped to make the money end
of the open so attractive that some of
the best of the southern pros, will float
along. The Q.G.C. proposes to add a
bob a head to club members’ subs. This
is designed to start a fund which will
be devoted to developing the game in
the State and in sending teams to com-
pete in the south—an encouragement to
players badly needed in Bananaland,
where tourists have to find their own
expenses if inclined for a trip to Sydney
or Melbourne.
* * * *
“St. Anne’s”: The increasing distance
to be got from improved (?) makes of
golf balls has forced big overseas clubs
to lengthen their courses. Royal Liver-
pool club’s course at Hoylake—already
one of the toughest and longest in Eng-
land —has been lengthened by 250 yards,
which now makes its length for the next
open championship, to be played there
in July, 7100 yards. The club says its
intention is to enable only superlative
golf to score 70 or under. Some of our
Australian players who habitually return
cards in the 60’s out here will have
something to tackle when they reach
Britain for the next championships, as
some of them are talking of doing.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: The Australian L.T.A. has
challenged for the Davis Cup in the
American zone. Kay, of Victoria, has
been added to the list of those invited
to go if chosen. Hopman has declined
to play, and his absence, especially if
Crawford drops out, will sadly weaken
any side sent, for he would have been a
tower of strength in the doubles. It
looks as if the selectors have at last
summoned up the pluck to send a young
team, even if it has little chance of win-
ning. Ninety-five per cent, of overseas
teams challenge year after year in the
certainty of being licked, and some at
least, like France, have found this method
the road to ultimate victory.
* * * *
“Green Point”: South Africa has de-
cided that there will be no challenge for
the Davis Cup from that end this year.
At the same time assistance will be given
by the Afrikander association to
approved players desiring to show at
Wimbledon. The Africans have not yet
decided whether they will play in
Brookes’s Pacific zone when that gets
going in a couple of years, but they
should have a rare chance of building
up another first-class team by then if
they get busy and comb out the promis-
ing juniors now.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: It is about time the
N.S.W. country tennis tourney produced
a new Davis Cup candidate or two.
Anderson, Kalms, Todd and J. Willard
all played for the country, and all caught
Davis Cup selection. Willard also repre-
sented Australia at the 1924 Olympiad
with Bayley.
* * * *
“Viva”: It was inevitable, of course.
Mussolini announces that in reprisals for
“sanctions” Italy will not take part in
the Davis Cup this year. It is hardly a
supreme sacrifice. Italy’s team, never
quite first-class, save for De Morpurgo,
is now long in the tooth.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: There was a quaint
incident at a junior Sydney sports meet-
ing. A sprint field was in the holes;
suddenly the lot went off to a perfect
start and the timekeeper set his apparatus
going. All hands save the starter had
taken a bursting motor tyre for the pistol
and acted accordingly. I can recall a
similar instance at a little N.Q. meeting.
In that case the judge had pinched a
bottle of champagne from the refresh-
ment tent and retired behind it for a
hasty swig. He was more used to beer
than fizz, and was so flabbergasted by
the pop and the foaming liquor that he
arrived at the tape, bottle in hand,
seconds after the finish.
o Continued on page 38.)


has
ither
I
'h “" Sol, Wnf C
gOOOYtAR
U . __ n ot claimed mileage-
,nved mileage j e f, n itely
w p Q t CvC‘ ,, “
Wolonds buy tyres on
£3B3*£SSW& ■ 3 - ** So ° a, “’ w
do "gWeVeater m '' e ° 9e- -. . •«
t vViis 1
jsiablisnes tna* - - obviou,
i" w *•■>« .....» ’• "Sy W
sible the tougher. MiieagelnsP te d m
r • “ b “ te 0
p"*»s. .rr«S«k«* A "‘ ,r ”''° ' . ... „„crt
\ble te "Gr-3 iv\»» c ~ , i-.jrk ,
In ** f d a ° a "J iStsVtbe cities, suburbs an
** t; -* -*** pcre
Rpnorts sent in y ' ere . C t 'L n audited. tHE TYRES
ages established and ***<*&£
The amazing *£*£&*! ** '° *
INSPECTED way. means:— c pE oPLER' dE
expressed in QR , n nVER. *»*SSL TYRE-
SpSSV _ R r people ride
xpressed in ana oRL D OVER, JJ° R otH ER TYRE-
. t l;l,e this, d° n Goo dyearTyr
VX/ith
„nd for
I
Tm
K
£
i
a
i
\
i-C\-T6
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


for SAFETY
mmms^
mzm
The super-safety of Oldsmobile is not exclusively the result of
any one feature, but of the combination of many—the balanced
engineering that has made Oldsmobile famous.
You’re travelling fast on a pot-holed or bumpy road you
needn’t worry, you’ve got Knee Action, “stepping over” bumps
and road depressions levelling out the toughest roads to give
you a gliding, jounceless ride. You’re travelling fast on a
winding road, Ride Stabilizer lets you hug the corners with-
out a trace of sidesway or roll, while because of Centre
Control Steering, your Oldsmobile seems actually to respond
to your thoughts, so easy is it to steer. On the steepest hills
or in crowded traffic, Synchro-Mesh Transmission, with its
finger-flick changing up or down, gives you a feeling of
absolute mastery. For straightline stopping in sudden emer-
gencies, you have self-energising Super-Hydraulic Brakes,
supplemented by powerful mechanical emergency brakes,
hand operated from the dash.
As a final touch of safety and security, you have a windscreen
of “Armour-plate” Safety Glass, which will not splinter, yet
gives perfect vision. These are some of the features that make
Oldsmobile one of the safest cars on the road. Other features,
just as worthwhile and just as lavish, contributes to Oldsmo-
bile r s sparkling performance, luxurious comfort and complete
dependability, Oldsmobile the Great New Car that gives
you everything for 1936. Come for a demonstration drive.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LTD.
OIA
mb ...
mobile
“ARMOURPLATE” WINDSCREEN
RIDE STABILIZER
m
mm
CENTRE CONTROL STEERING
WiiyyiiiT'
| /. $£ ’ * ,
: ysssss.-<yyA <\ * •• i Wffw
■
li
&* i ‘ m
■• - - - 1
SUPER-HYDRAULIC BRAKES
"\
s&>><
SYNCHRO MESH TRANSMISSION
Hear the perfect tone of the new
"Air Chief" Car Radio. Separate speaker
fitted into the header bar flush with the
roof. Price £27 plus tax. If purchased with
your car, finance can be arranged under
G.M.A.C. Deferred Payment Plan.
Consult Your Local Authorised Dealer
Be well advised by an
acknowledged Expert
M
LIONEL BIBBY. famous Rifle and
Revolver Shot and recognised authority
on Firearms and Ballistics, is attached
to Mick Simmons' Shooting Depart-
ment staff. Write him for his expert
advice on any matter pertaining to firearms
and shooting.
MODERN
Sporting Rifles
t
No. I— THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-cal.,
bolt action, V-baclc sight; for short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges. Kounu
barrel, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the mili-
tary weapon, and guaranteed
accurate. Weight, about
3Jlb.
22/6
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. IA—THE MAINE DE EEXE
BIFEE, 22-eal., bolt action sum.ar
to No. 1,24 in. barrel, pistol gap,
adjustable rear sight. Weight,
about 411 b
30/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12A—WINCHESTER SINGLE-
SHOT RIFEEj MODEL 60, for -
Short, Long or Long-rifle KinUiro
Cartridges; 27in. round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip stock, bolt
action, ladder rear and metal bead
front sight. Weight, about
441 b
40/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 14—W INCHESTEK
HAMMERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 61, 22-cal.,
24in. round barrel, pistol grip
stock, ladder rear sight, gold
bead front sight, slide action.
Magazine handles 20 short, 1 (|
long or 14 long-rifle cartridges.
This rifle will handle adequately
and safely the new high power
Super Speed 22
R.F. Cartridges.
£7/10/-
Carriage Paid.
So. 4— MOSSBERG S.S. 22 CAE. B.P. RIFLE,
.VIODEE 10, bolt action, 22in. round barre.,
walnut stock, bead front and ladder rear
sights, with swivels and web sling.
Weight, about 41b
33-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. S—MOSSBERG S.S. R.F. RIFLE, MODEL
14, 22-cal., bolt action, 24in. round barrel,
walnut stock, bulge fore-end, hooded rarnj)
front and peep receiver rear sight; witn
swivels and leather sling. Weight,
about 51b
45/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 8—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD
RIFLE, MODEL 52, 22-cal., bolt action
round barrel, gold bead front and
ladder rear sight. Weight, about 4£lb.
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
40/-
s.s.
, 22in.
World Famous
SHOT GUNS
Vo. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.1J.8.L.
GUN 12G., top lever, bar action. 32in. steel
barrels, both choke, rebounding locks, cross
bolt, snap fore-end, half
pistol grip, walnut stock ..
£l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 23— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMEBLESS GUN, 12G., top lever X bolt,
steel barrels, both elioke. matted rib, barrels
and lug one piece, 32in. barrels, walnut stocK
pistol grip tested for nitro
powders; weight about 81b.
£6/10-
Carriage Paid.
No. 28 —WINCHESTER D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels, right
modified, left full choice; top lever, walnut
stock, pistol grip, chambered for 2Jin. cart-
ridges. Weight, about 7Jlb.
Price
■/01/ZZ3
Carriage Paid.
No 29—POX STERLIXG WORTH D.8.8.E
HAMMERLiESS GUN, 12G., 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, top lever, walnut stock, pistol
grip, chambered for 2fin. cartridges.
Weight, about 7ilb.
Price
£l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Latest Edition just released. Write for copy-
Post free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches
“Splash”: Young Kendall put up a
new Australian record at the N.S.W.
State championships by covering 110
yards in lmin. 3-ssec. He was slow off
the starting board, or he might have
lowered Takaishi’s figures for 100 metres
(109 yards Ift. lin.), lmin l-ssec., put
up in Brisbane. This boy, carefully
watched and trained by his dad, looks a
certainty for Berlin. The world’s record
for the 100 metres, which will be his
test there, is 56 l-ssec. Fick, the Ameri-
can, did it in a 25-yard bath with turns.
Kendall swam in the village duckpond at
the Domain.
“Mari-ja”: At Sydney Domain Maori-
land swimmer Peter Mathieson clipped
three seconds off the previous best
Australian time for 220 yards back-
stroke (Kiyokawa’s), but his name won’t
figure in the record-book. An inter-
national rule says that in a handicap
event a record-breaker, for his time to
be accepted, must be sent away to a
call of “Go.” Mathieson started from
scratch, but the starter, counting the
seconds, called “17.” The rule may
appear to be a foolish one, but it was
careless not to have complied with it.
It was known that an attempt was to
be made on the Jap’s figures, and the
starter explained his method of count-
ing. Afterwards it took somebody a few
seconds to remember the rule. Mathie-
son’s time was 2min. 38 l-ssec.; the
record is still 2min. 41 l-ssec.
* * * *
“Pasta”: Italy’s Young Fascist groups
have decided to add Rugby football to
their curriculum “because of its well-
defined characteristics as a combatant
sport.” This is no doubt a compliment
to the British game, but I would respect-
fully ask the Fascisti if they have heard
of the Australian code. The spectacle
of a final between, say, South Footscray
and Carltonwood, with the spectators
joining in, would convince them that
there are other codes with those “well-
defined characteristics.”
»i* H 4 H*
“Rectory Field”: An Australian
Rugby Union team will be invited to
Britain in 1939-40. So far the two coun-
tries peg level in the matter of Tests:
the Wallabies (1908-09) won 9-3 ; the
Waratahs (1927-28) were walloped 18-11.
* * * *
“Gate”: Undeterred by last season’s
failure, the N.S.W. Rugby League is
considering staging night football again,
but earlier in the season than the last
attempt. The idea is to give some
interest to players who will be shoved
to the wall by the Englishmen’s visit,
which will cut into the grade com-
petitions.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: A special general meet-
ing of the Victorian R.A. to consider
the raising of fund.s to send the Vic-
torian eight to Perth decided on a levy
on clubs at the rate of not more than
2s. 6d. per member. This is heavier than
the usual plaster, but expenses for the
long trip are solid; first-class steamer
fares amount to £5OO. There is not
much time to spare either, and instruc-
tions have been issued to set about
extracting the simoleons at once.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum writes
from Canada to say that he and
McConachy have done well over in that
Dominion, the English game now being
firmly established since their first tour
a couple of years ago ; it is now played
in all billiard-rooms, in addition to the
Yankee variations. The pair are return-
ing through Britain, but Lindrum, at
least, will not play there. Back in Aus-
tralia, he will be ready to defend the
world’s championship and the Billiards
Cup against any invader desiring to cap-
ture them. To Walter the increase in
the baulkline handicap has made the
game harder, but he and his partner have
put up plenty of four-figure scores in
spite of it.
* * * *
“Long Dog”: Greyhound-racing must
be flourishing in the U.S.A. Australia
has been driving a brisk trade with that
country in the daft tykes ; the latest con-
signment, valued at £5OO, included some
well-known performers.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and .Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: n LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Cat*
~
488
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
January Issue Now on Sale.
PROSPECTS FOR 1936.
ARE SHARE PRICES TOO HIGH?
OUTLOOK FOR BASE METALS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22 / -
I HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
“Worth Over Fifty Millions”
There seems little doubt now about
the continued success of the wool season.
The story in every major consuming
country is of expanding manufacture
trying to make shift with reduced pro-
duction. With Japan and Britain both
buying heavily, and a recovering U.S.A.
rapidly coming to the point where it will
cease to be self-sufficing, world supplies
are calculated for the 1935-36 season at
1,950,000,0001 b., against an average of
2,097,000,0001 b. for the four previous
years.
For the half-year to December 31
1,473,000 Australian bales were sold for
£25,127,000, representing a 14 p.c. in-
crease in quantity and a £9,331,000 in-
crease in return. Per-pound prices wenl:
up from 9.4 d. in December, 1934, to
15. Id. during the second week in January,
1936. There was a rise of 5 p.c. on the
first New Year sale.
The half-year’s sales netted more in
money than those for any half-year since
1928, and were nearly equal in return
to the corresponding half-years of 1929
and 1930 put together. On January 1
951,839 bales remained in store to be
sold. On the current average price of
roughly £lB ss. per bale, this alone will
realise another £17,500,000, if prices
merely remain firm. Apart from
these quantities, there should be on the
N.C.W.S.B. estimate about 500,000
additional bales available, so that the
whole clip should certainly be worth over
£50,000,000.
Manufacturing figures in every coun-
try show improvement. The employment
index for the woollen, worsted and carpet
trades in Britain stood at 95.3 towards
the end of 1935 as against 90.6 at the
same point in 1934. British tops exports
were up about 30 p.c. on January-
October figures.
There has never been an unmanage-
able surplus of stocks. Towards the end
of the year stocks were dwindling to no-
thing in England, and there was an
urgent “spot” demand at London auc-
tions. U.S. consumption of wool for
the first nine months of the year was
nearly 100 p.c. ahead of the previous
year.
Provided the Australian season main-
tains itself so as to turn off a bumper
clip in the 1936-37 season, the future
looks bright. It will take a very sub-
stantial fall in prices to make it other-
wise.
A Commodity Bill Market
The matter of an open bill market
was mentioned while the Commonwealth
Bank’s Claude Reading was giving
evidence before the Banking Commis-
sion. Speaking for himself, he said:
I think it would be a good thing to
establish a trading market.
A lot of other people think so, too.
The Australian capitals are probably the
only important financial centres in the
world without this facility. It would be
of great advantage in financing the pro-
ducers of “self-liquidating” commodities
such as wool.
The woolgrower who shears this
month may have to wait eight to nine
months for his cheque. On the money
which keeps him going he has to pay
interest. Yet wool is so sound as an
exchange medium that during the depres-
sion hosts of people used it as a means
of transferring money to Europe.
In London, where there is a bill
market, commodities seasonally as stable
in supply and value as wool can be
financed at a rate of from -gfl. to 1 p.c.
In New York the rate goes down as
low as -g-d. p.c.
If brokers were to issue, for financ-
ing purposes, a fortnightly declaration
of stocks, as they do in any case for in-
surance purposes, and, if the Common-
wealth Bank were to certify an estimate
of value to discount houses, a means
would be provided whereby it would be
easily safe for agents to arrange ad-
vances to growers up to 75 p.c. or 80
p.c. of clip value within a fortnight or so
of delivery in store.
The present system is absurdly expen-
sive to the grower.
Australian Oil
“M.G.”: Australia had a brief oil
boom, with Roma (Q.) and southern Vic-
toria as its focal points. When gamblers
"Wot’s a good school, Pincher?”
—who believed themselves to be investors
—woke up to the fact that they had
drawn blanks, the pegs were pulled from
the turf of Williamstown racecourse ; the
surfers returned to the beaches of Angle-
sea, and oil was forgotten —except by a
determined handful of people who had
approached the question scientifically and
without hysteria and kept their noses
close to the trail.
As a result of their work there are two
Victorian wells producing oil which is
a commercial proposition. One of these
turns out 100 gallons a day. The second
has an output of 103 gallons, and, in the
opinion of a petroleum geologist of
repute, has a good chance of doubling
that figure shortly. The oil got from
these wells is not bottled to be exhibited
in a city office window in the midst
of a mass of prospectuses ; it goes into
consumption. One firm takes the
output, and is ready to take more, put-
ting it on the market, after treatment, to
be used for lubrication.
To justify the erection of a cracking
plant for the purpose of petrol-produc,-
tion would naturally need a much larger
production. In the Lakes Entrance area,
where this oil is obtained, 45 wells have
been sunk, and in 35 of them oil has
been found. Not' in quantities commer-
cially payable, but the important fact is
that it is there.
Australians who visit U.S. oil district's
for the first time are astonished to find
how closely the drills are sunk. Veritable
forests of derricks arise, often not 20ft.
apart, and so mysterious are the ways of
oil that, in this multitude of drills, only
a percentage will be found to return any
oil—the surrounding ones, only a few
feet distant, are usually dry.
In 1920 the Commonwealth offered a
£50,000 reward to the discoverer of
oil in commercially payable quantities.
At that time there appeared to be little
prospect of the prize ever being claimed.
The offer was withdrawn when the posi-
tion seemed hopeless. To-day it is not
hopeless; there are definite possibilities.
With electrolytic copper still around
£3B 10s. (stg.) a ton (equal to £4B 2s. 6d.
Aust.), Mt. Lyell, on the Speck’s West
Coast, continues to operate at full capa-
city of the smelters and refinery. Last
year’s costs were £43 2s. a ton. Output,
allowing for holidays, is in the vicinity
of 14,000 tons of electrolytic copper a
year. A lot of the ore is being cheaply
mined at present by opencut. Ore re-
serves are very conservatively estimated
in the co.’s report. Last year’s gold
production was 75320 z., a very handy
sideline. Much of the yellow metal
which was previously lost in flotation is
now being recovered by riffles ; sulphur
which once escaped in smoke (and
incidentally denuded the country of
vegetation for miles around) is also
being trapped ; and, altogether, ore that
it was impossible to treat profitably a
few year’s back has now become pay-
able. At £4B (Aust.) a ton for copper
mining should show a profit of at least
£70,000 for the current year ; dividends
last term brought in £57,879, and there
is a likelihood of improvement. A 5 p.c.
distribution would call for £77,500. A 6
p.c. or 7 p.c. handout might not be
beyond the co.’s capabilities in the near
future, provided the price for electro-
lytic remains firm.
* * * *
Emperor shares touched 14s. 2d. on
Thursday (in Melbourne), the lowest
quote since the scrip was listed. Koroeres
were down to 6s. Lolomas fell from
355. 3d. to 31s. 6d. during the day, and
on Friday flopped to 275. Emperors
at one stage sold above 295. While the
scrip was changing hands at 16s. (Aust.)
or thereabouts on Australian ’Changes,
the nominal quote in London was
17s. 6d. (stg.)—no business done. Then
quotes overseas were 15s. seller, 12s. 6d.
buyer. On Thursday, when Emperors
were so weak in Melbourne, London
buyers were offering 13s. 9d. —in English
currency, of course.
Gold shares are weak all round, fol-
lowing a promising closing of the Ex-
changes in 1935. Mt. Morgan subdivided
scrip has held fairly well at 18s. 9d.,
equal to 375. 6d. per old share. Lance-
field, Triton and New Occidental, three
leaders among the new producers, have
all been a. trifle easier in the markets,
but in no case has the weakening been
more than a couple of shillings on the
highest quotation of the past three
months. Westralia Renown, producing
on a small scale, has had difficulty in
financing plant purchase, and the shares,
over 3s. a few weeks back, have slumped
to 9d. Mt. Kasi (Fiji), Placer Develop-
ment, Raub (F.M.S.) and Boulder Per-
severance have all been fairly steady
lately, after an uncertain period for all
but the last-mentioned.
* * *
While the gold sharemarket has been
weak, industrials have been buoyant.
Outstanding have been Yarra Falls (men-
tioned frequently here as Australia’s
largest textile concern), J. Fielding, Meg-
gitt, Castlemaine-Perkins, bank shares
and David Jones ordinaries. Some time
ago, when D.J. ords. were around 41s.
and the second prefs. were at 30s. 6d., a
change from prefs. to ords. was here
suggested. Last sale of the prefs. was at
30s. 6d., ords. 455.
Ns * * *
Electrolytic Zinc has declared an all-
round 8 p.c. on prefs. and ords. for the
the half-year to Dec. 31. Ord.
distribution for the previous
full year was 5 p.c. Spelter
averaged slightly more than £l5
Bs. (stg.) a ton for the latest
six months as against £l2 16s.
6d. for the year to June 30,
1935 ; on Friday the London
quote stood at £l4 3s. 9d.
Despite the recent weakening,
present price of the metal
should warrant continuance of
the 8 p.c. It is sufficiently high
for the co. to have continued
with its reopening of the Rose-
bery (Tas. West Coast) mines,
which have been shut down for some
years.
Ns ' * N= *
The Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.),
should be crushing by the time this
reaches print. Gold extraction would
have started before but for the late arri-
val of steel balls for the mill. Ample
water is said to be available, sufficient to
keep the plant running at full capacity.
There is 70,000 tons of positive Ore
(values undisclosed) and 11,500 tons
broken ready for the mill. The market
is expectant. The ss. shares are now
around 15s. 6d., after going to over 16s.
a week or so ago. Values of 30dwt. have
been spoken of, with richer patches. The
main doubt appears to be permanency of
the gold-bearing stone. A programme of
diamond-drilling has been under con-
sideration by the co. and its neighbor,
First Hit (1934), N.L.
* * * *
“Chowk”: The cabled yarn about the
British subaltern who bought a brass
statuette from a native curio dealer at
Benares for a pound and found it was
pure gold with diamond eyes and worth
£10,075 —note the odd money—leaves me
frozen cold. Benares curio-dealers are
not made like that. Besides the thing
would betray itself in a moment to the
veriest mug by its exceptional weight in
comparison with a brazen article. The
nigger in the woodpile becomes visible,
however, when we read that the dealer’s
shop is being rushed by hundreds of tour-
ists paying fancy prices for other brass
articles in the hope of discovering an-
other goldmine.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
‘ ‘Freckles’ *
The screen version of Mrs. Gene
Stratton Porter’s best-seller, at Sydney
Plaza, is probably as effective as the
material to hand will let it be. Little
Virginia Weidler does, the quaint, cute-
child stuff very prettily. Tom Brown
is the lumbering tongue-tied Freckles, as
vivacious as a ventriloquist’s dummy,
and Carol Stone gets as much as is edu-
cible out of the part of a namby-pamby
schoolmarm. Half-way through, the
chroniele of small-town trivialities is
jazzed up by an excursion into gangster-
land. Sweet little Virgy is at the mercy
of four desperate killers in a lonely
shack. Freckles rushes to her rescue, and
while he, nearly swooning with loss of
blood, staves off the bandits with one of
their own rifles the camera every two
or three seconds gives glimpses of char-a-
banc loads of rescuers speeding through
the night. At the end Freckles, wounded
and wan, is clasped in Miss Stone’s arms.
Trite stuff, but more than 2,000,000
copies of the book were sold, so this
sort of thing : is evidently what the public
will most readily pay for.
“Masks and Memories”
Also at the Plaza. A rigmarole of a
story about a Mississippi steamboat cap-
tain, who at the age of 25 retired to his
fine mansion and stayed indoors till he
was 75 as a protest against railroads, is
used to link together ballets and song
scenas. The film achieves artistic unity
in a way, for the singing is as poor as
the acting, which is as poor as the
dialogue, which is as poor as the photo-
graphy. A remarkable production.
Mickey Marches On
Brightest part of the Plaza’s pro-
gramme is that devoted to Disney
creations. Mickey the Mouse visits Lilli-
put, where, his vessel being wrecked, he
was “whirled .ashore by a great wave”—-
it picks him up, gets a good grip and
delivers him on the beach with a spin
that knocks him dizzy—and awoke to
find himself bound to the ground by Lil-
liputian cables. Bursting these, he was
assailed by artillery and driven back
into the sea, where he saved himself by
puffing the Lilliputian galleons out of
range. Finally he endeared himself to
the inhabitant's by meeting in single
combat, and vanquishing, a huge man-
eating spider.
Another cartoon-film exhibits Mickey
as the driver of a road-roller. While he
is flirting with Minnie, now a nursemaid,
the infant twins she is perambulating
climb aboard Mickey’s engine and set
it going. A wild chase ensues, for the
twins pursue Mickey in the road-roller.
While Mickey bounds over the sleepers
of a railway bridge the road-roller knocks
over the piles below, and poor Mickey
the last few yards over sleepers
that have no connection with earth.
Finally he manages to seize a trailing
rope and anchor the road-roller to a
street gas-lamp. The lamp is torn from
its sockets, but is held by its piping. This
roots up another gas-lamp and then
another, till a whole row of them are
capering behind the juggernaut. The
piping motif reappears when the road-
roller charges through a hotel, wrecking
everything but the bath-plumbing con-
nections, so that on five floors, when the
wreckage subsides, five mice are seen
scrubbing themselves. Musical accom-
paniment throughout both fantasies is
everywhere exactly expressive of action
and sentiment.
“The Water Babies”
Mickey’s adventures are in black-and-
white. Cleverer still are the “silly sym-
phonies,” in Technicolor. Best of a trio
of these on the Plaza bill is an extrava-
ganza that owes something to Tenniel’s
illustrations to Kingsley’s Water Babies.
£)ver a still pond the sun rises, showing
innumerable water-lilies. Each slowly
opens, disclosing a dimpled infant who
at once shakes off dull sloth and dives
into the water. One little fellow, very
drowsy, hesitates ; puts a foot in, finds
the water cold, makes to lie down again.
A petal of the lily curves back and then
flicks sharply forward, pushing the little
chap into the water. Then in various
quaint craft (one is rowed by a cater-
pillar, manipulating 20 oars; another, a
speedboat, dashes by drawn by a
“PATIENCE,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Evelyn Gardiner as Lady Jane, Ivan Menzies as Bunthorne, Gregory Stroud
as Grosvenor.
dragon-fly) the babies go to a carnival.
Star event is a toreador act —the bull a
great bullfrog. His fury is tremendous,
his charges devastating, and finally the
heroic baby toreador has to flee for his
life, escaping by a hairbreadth as non-
chalant baby guards slam the heavily-
timbered gates of the enclosure. After
many other curious and merry perform-
ances the babes re-embark, return to
their water-lilies and retire for the night.
Fadeout finds the rising moon silvering
the waters of the pond. Coloring is gor-
geous, drawing beautiful, with wit in
every line, and the music an almost
literal reflection of the action. Other
“silly symphonies” at the Plaza are
“Peculiar Penguins” and “The Wise
Little Hen.”
“Charlie Chan’s Secret”
Murders have been committed a-plenty
for the express purpose of allowing
Charlie Chan to exercise his marvellous
powers of ratiocination ; in the present
case the homicide is planned with
diabolical ingenuity. The son of a
wealthy family has been foully done to
death. At least four persons are sus-
pected. Deceptively suspicious actions
by all of them, added to which there are
motives to burn, set Chan a stiff task.
Most of the action takes place in an
ancient house equipped with the sliding
panels and subterranean passages essen-
tial to this sort of business. Atmosphere
is spooky, and psychic seances add to
the weirdness. Aided by a knowledge of
chemistry and ballistics, Chan relent-
lessly pursues his tortuous way, even
bringing in his old stunt of apologetically
admitting failue to lull suspicion.
Warner Oland as Chan is smoothly
efficient, adopting the inscrutable mien
which tradition and fiction demand in
Chinese roles, and his calm sleuthing is
done to the usual obbligato of staccato
epigrams. Herbert Mundin as a butler
with the wind up is delightful. One of
the best of the Chan series. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Hi Gaucho”
Also at the Capitol. Inez de Alvears
(Steffi Duna), in love with Lucio (John
Carroll), son of a rival Argentinian
family, is ordered by her mother to
marry Don Salvator, an elderly noble-
man then on his way from Spain.
Escurra (Rod la Rocque), a bandit, kid-
naps the Don, assumes his identity and
proceeds to the De Alvears menage,
where ma, charmed with him, begins
preparations for her daughter’s be-
trothal. Lucio, desperate, attempts to
carry off Inez, but in the darkness grabs
the mother, who has him arrested. He
escapes, falls in with his father (Mon-
tague Love) and his gauchos, and they
raid the home to carry off Inez, arriv-
ing as the mother is announcing the en-
gagement to the guests. In the melee
the rightful Don arrives, exposes the
bandit, and all is well. John Carroll, a
newcomer to the screen, has a fine
bass-baritone and a pleasing personality.
Steffi Duna, remembered for her part in
“La Cucuracha,” brings fire and verve
and Latin beauty to her part. Rod
la Rocque is a dashing rogue, and Mon-
tague Love’s increasing years and weight
seem to have had no effect on his riding
ability. There are some tuneful songs,
and two fine choral numbers rendered
by the gauchos and the bandits with the
aplomb of a grand-opera chorus.
“First a Girl”
In this British film the spectacular
revue field, hitherto a Hollywood
monopoly, is successfully invaded. There
are also a dash of bedroom comedy
and a sprinkling of backstage by-play,
and the ingredients are held together by
an intelligible story, first-class character-
acting and bright dialogue. Jessie
Matthews is an erstwhile shopgirl, mad
on songandance, who doubles for “Mr.
Victoria” (Sonnie Hale) at a music hall
on an occasion when that worthy female
impersonator has lost his voice. Her
impersonation (naturally) is extremely
convincing, and a chapter of accidents
,on the stage involving the real Mr. Vic-
toria produces so much laughter that the
pair are booked by a famous entre-
preneur (Alfred Drayton). Touring
Europe, they come in contact with the
sportive Princess Mirabeau (Anne Lee)
and her titled fiance (Griffith Jones).
Miss Matthews, doomed to keep up a
male impersonation in private life, is
lured by the titled gentleman into drink-
ing several brandies and smoking strong
cigars, but survives the ordeal wonder-
fully well. Eventually the princess pairs
off with Mr. Hale (whose private convic-
tion it is that he would make an incom-
parable Hamlet and an even better Cleo-
patra), and Miss Matthews lands a title.
The Matthews-Hale comedy combination
is a strong one, subsidiary casting is good
and photography Al. Previewed at Film
House, Sydney.
Some First Nights
“Patience,” at' Sydney Royal on Satur-
day night, required a good deal of that
quality from those of the audience who
weren’t dyed-in-the-wool Gilsullivan en-
thusiasts. The piece satirises a long-
dead phase in English art and letters, and
its gentle swipes at Swinburne, rasps
at Rossetti and wallops at Wilde have
very little point for a generation that has
nearly forgetten them. The posturings
and rhapsodisings of Bunthorne and
Grosvenor, the subdued melancholy of
the worshipping maidens and the weak-
nesses of the little paradoxes on which
the plot of the play depends are relieved
by few flashes of humor, and with one
or two exceptions the songs and choruses
are well below Sullivan’s normal
standard.
Ivan Menzies did his best to infuse
life and wit into Bunthorne’s phlegmatic
bulk, but the part isn’t a dancing one,
so he couldn’t reinforce with his toes
the japes he so clearly enunciated by his
lips. Gregory Stroud’s Grosvenor got
more laughs, and Evelyn Gardiner’s Lady
Jane eclipsed the two male princi-
pals, though there is nothing in her
part but the mildest pantomime damery.
The 20 lovesick maidens numbered 25,
which made pairing off with 20 dragoons
a difficult problem in grouping. Winifred
Lawson’s Patience sang sweetly and
looked charming. Orchestral backing
was as good as ever, and the scenery was
the prettiest of the whole season to date.
t t
Angus Watson is still the life of the
party at Sydney Tivoli, where the revue
“Let’s Go Gay” commenced on Friday.
His fooling has the smack of spon-
taneity, his acrobatic ability is a great
asset, and on occasion he produces quite
a good tenor voice. Two of his turns
deserve special mention —the Operatic


Missing Friends.
WILL JOHN McINTOSH, trainer, born at
Pitfield, Victoria, and later a member of the
Victorian police, stationed at Kensington, Mel-
bourne, who is entitled to a legacy under the
will of his uncle, Hugh Kirkland Mclntosh,
late of Pitfield, grazier, or anyone who can
give information as to his whereabouts, please
communicate at once with DAVID CLARKE
& SON, Lydiard Street, Ballarat, Solicitors
for the estate of the said Hugh Kirkland
Mclntosh?
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
MRS. STAN O’SHEA, late Bondi, Sydney,
kindly communicate with her sister, MRS.
T. BLACKLAW, Witta Road, Maleny,
Queensland? (Sydney papers please copy.)
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
FAMOUS PICTURE
SERIES
4
if
warming
4
Romance
■;
against a ,
nrill Splashed
Dackgroundoftlie /
Tenchßevolution/
4
C
\
SAKAIINIS
MARRIAGE
NILS ASTHER
HAZEL TERRY/
NOAH BEERY'
Hude C&s£;
BB
*A
#■
w!
feSS
SSI
“ALL ARISTOCRATS
MUST MARRY
PEASANTS WITHIN 3
DAYS OR PERISH BY
THE GUILLOTINE” ...
ordered the court of the
people.
A cunning decree—inspired
by jealousy—aimed to
prevent the Marriage of
Corbal and Cleonie . . .
BUT TRUE LOVE KNOWS
ONLY ITS OWN LAWS ...
WILL EVER FIND A WAY!
Quartet (with Keith Connolly, Victor
Bourke and Robert Nicholson) and the
Vicar of Mirth. Angus might, however,
remember with advantage two things—
first, his audience is inside the theatre ;
second, in “thin-ice” gagging skill is best
exhibited by keeping on top of the ice.
Charlotte Ayres and Rene are again
seen in graceful dancing acts, assisted by
Larue and Maurice. The Lassiter
Brothers are billed “in some new gags
and marvellous acrobatic dancing.” No
one will quarrel with the latter part of
the claim, but the general effect would be
better if the act were delivered in silence.
James, who is a silent man, produces
a long procession of lighted cigarettes
from the air merely for the pleasure of
taking a couple of puffs from each and
trampling it underfoot. A really novel
turn. Elsie Gilbert is proclaimed as an
“Apostle of Pep,” and she certainly puts
plenty of it into her songs, but she left
this critic unconvinced of the necessity
or even the desirability of pep. Frogella,
a contortionist, and Les Diamondes,
exponents of human sculpture, have
returned.
Phyllis Dixie is dainty and vivacious,
and the ballet dances and kicks with its
usual precision.
•£• *J« »J«
Florian is advertised by Melb. Tivoli
as “The World’s Greatest Juggling
Genius.” Superlatives are rash, but
Florian has worked up some new
developments in an art which Cinque-
valli seemed to have left incapable of
improvement. It is impossible to describe
Florian’s balancing tricks, mostly done
with balls and sticks, the final stunt be-
ing the manipulation of a Rugby foot-
ball which runs up and down the stick,
The Incomparable Pomp of Eve,” by Blamire Young, in
the Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
spins on it, and even stands stationary
on end; Florian himself turns somer-
saults during some of its evolutions.
Johnny McGregor, Len Rich and Cath
Esler produce a number of sketches, some
of them just naughty, but one, “Just an
Old Pair of Shoes,” rising into the realm
of clever comedy. The Norman Thomas
quintet of colored musicians puts over
an effective turn, Croel and Allan and
Allen and Breen present a couple of
bright songandance duologues, and the
ballets are delightful.
** * *
“G. Trotter”: Some years back a wise
man advanced the theory that there were
only two activities in which the amateur
could be a more capable practitioner than
the professional. One was photography.
The talent which the rise of reper-
tory theatres in Australia during recent
years has developed suggests that a third
should be added. Melbourne repertory
theatres include in their members num-
bers of men and women of equal-to-
professional ability. It is not too much
to say that it would be possible to collect
sufficient first-class amateur actors and
actresses from the dozens of dramatic
clubs which play in small halls with
inferior staging to form as good a cast
as any professional company Australia
has seen for years.
Militating against the greater success
of such productions are uneven cast-
ing and the tendency to choose
plays which are written by people
with highbrow reputations or which
deal with the unusual. Novelty of
plot is an admitted advantage, but
novelty is not everything. Long, pon-
derous speeches do not necessarily carry
dignity with them, nor are cryptic shots
of dialogue, resembling the backchat of
the old-time vaudeville Irishman, neces-
sarily charged with deep psychology. The
stage should present natural living men
and women, not mental defectives, moral
freaks or people who trespass over the
line of mental equilibrium.
Not that the majority of repertory
plays come info this category. Most
of them present bright, natural characters
acting m a bright, natural way; and, on
the whole, the average repertory play of
the past couple of years has more truth
to nature and even more popular appeal
than many of the shows put on the pro-
fessional stage.
The most serious defect about the
repertory movement is that, though it has
developed excellent acting, is learning
production and has a growing appeal, the
local drama is forgotten. Some years
back the Pioneers Club of Melbourne
started out with the deliberate intention
of encouraging the Australian playwright,
and produced none but Australian plays.
Some of them were excellent, and the
company acted together so long that it
was able to turn out a smooth, even per-
formance in which the smajller parts
were as well played as the important'
ones. But the Pioneers made the mis-
take of staging plays written by people
who possessed local reputations as
writers but who had not mastered the
craft of this particular class of writing.
The few bad plays undid the work which
had been built up by a number of good
ones. Early success also led to over-
leaping ambition. The Pioneers engaged
halls too large to fill and staged produc-
tions more expensively than the receipts
warranted. Isn’t it about time that at
least one of the enterprising repertory
clubs of Melbourne or Sydney took up
the flickering torch from the spot where
it was dropped by the Pioneers?
Current Artbursts
The 1935 Archibald Prize competition
attracted the usual big field of entrant's.
The quality of the offerings, taken
generally, seems a bit inferior to that of
the preceding three or four years; but
Longstaff’s picture of “Banjo” Paterson,
awarded the prize, is one of the finest
portraits ever painted in Australia. It
has character and fidelity in every line.
The win is Longstaff’s fifth since the
competition was
com menced in
1921 —his other
scoring efforts
were portraits of
Dr. Alex. Leeper,
W. A. Holman,
Maurice Mosco-
vitch and John
Sulman.
W. B. Mclnnes,
who also has five
wins to his credit
—he had things
all his own way
in the years just
after the war —is
r e p r e sented on
this occasion by
three effective
portraits, the best that of G. D.
Coles. Ernest Buckmaster has several
canvases in his usual slick style—
most eye-arresting is a portrait of
a man in Highland military regalia
with a scarlet tunic. Hanke, last
year’s winner, demonstrates that his
powers are not waning in effectively
posed portraits of Unk White (whose
drawings help to cheer The Bulletin’s
pages), Trixie Tange, the pianist, and
“Yvonne.” Charles Wheeler, the remain-
ing former prize-winner (there are only
thirteen, for one year no award was
made), has careful portraits of Joseph
Hocking and George King.
Outside these fashionable circles work
of merit is put forward by Harley Grif-
fiths (“Portrait of My Father”), Eric
Wilson, G. L. Tindall, A. E. Newbury
and Donald Webb —the last-named paints
decoratively in water-color.
For the Wynne Prize the entries are
much more even than for the Archibald.
J. Muir Auld’s “Winter Morning” is
quiet, solid work, and doubtless deserves
the prize. More colorful and striking
exhibits are put in by Miles Evergood
(“Mudgee Waterhole”), Harold Her-
bert (“Timber”), J. R. Jackson (“Drying
Sails,” the property of the Gallery) and
Buckmaster (“Transient Morning”), while
John Rowell gets a very pleasing effect
in “Morning Light.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
3 a
Ilf! i
a a
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast- from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
MANLY GRAMMAR SCHOOL (GIRLS)
Health of body and mind is the main object of modern education. Where can
country children find these better than in a Manly school, on cliff, beside sea?
Character building studied; examination successes.
About 25 boarders taken—ages from five years upwards. Fees very moderate.
Write for prospectus, or arrange interview after February 1.
PRINCIPAL, MANLY GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
ASHBURNER STREET, MANLY, N.S.W.
...
...
m
I MJ
II I
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money' weekly. No outlay-—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer-best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently m-ofitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GIGMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Personal.
SHORT-STORIES WANTED; Romantic plots
with Australian atmosphere but no slang
figures of speech; for publication in English,
American and Indian periodicals. Lengths,
1-5 thous. Send stamp with MSS. (NOl
stamped envelope).—S. CHRISTOPHER
ROBINSON, Film, Dramatic and Literary
Agents, 37 Mortimer Market, London, W.C.I,
England. .
ţ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling liist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOUQ EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE &. Co, Ltd. King St. Sydney
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Once a year at least the National Gal-
lery becomes a live centre as far as the
general public is concerned. It is when
the Archibald Prize portraits are on
show. Last Saturday by twelve o’clock
there were groups of men and women
totally unassociated with art, unless their
looks belied them, going conscientiously
from canvas to canvas. The ladies
haven’t been neglected this year, and in
flowing white frock, in throats stretched
to a swanlike angle, in jewelled lobe of
ear are colorful interludes to the tweed
suitings of the males, the sedate wiggery
of the Judges. Justice Evatt, though,
blooms like a field of fuchsias in his red
robes, and two Scot's lads waggle the
sporran and flaunt plaid, cairngorm and
buckled shoon.
Myra Morris sitting on a boulder
against a seascape is a good advertise-
ment for the female poet. Rod Quinn
looks out with quiet eyes, and “Banjo”
Paterson in John Longstaff’s winner sits
with a restful hand upon his knee. It’s
a strong, flexible hand, a hand such as
Robbie Burns might have had, a hand
to drive a furrow, to turn a sonnet. Red-
gold shines Trix Tange’s hair in the
Hanke portrait, a deeper red Suzanne
Crookston’s in the Murch picture. Force-
ful and arresting, Miss Bale, Melbourne’s
noted artist, looks out on those who
gaze. As for Unk White with his foils,
he should have lived in the Rue St. Ger-
main with D’Artagnan and co.
If anything could have made the Tea
Commission’s party go with a swing it
would have been to hear Commissioners
Gervas Huxley and Roy Williams
singing “Tea in the Morning, Tea in the
Evening, Tea in the Afternoon.” Alex-
ander Gordon’s lady arranged the pro-
gramme, and apparently didn’t think of
it. But if the two were denied music
they cooed the words into every ear that
turned their way. Each pointed out a
trifle triumphantly the supremacy of
Great Britain in the matter of tea-con-
sumption ; per head, Britons consume
two pounds a year more than do the
billy-boilers of Australia.
Mrs. Williams’s raspberry-red muslin
wore ruffles about its short sleeves and
was shaded by a wide and drooping white
hat. Mrs. Huxley (he’s a cousin to
Aldous) was very tailored brown and
white. She’s just published a novel, and
near-by Mrs. Roy Agnew, her cream
frock all Bulgarian embroidery up to the
high neckline, told of her husband’s
latest and most important sonata, pub-
lished the other day by Allan’s. They
are down at Manly now. Maybe Roy
is remembering that Chopin was inspired
by the sea. Palm with gold clasp must
be pinned on the Gordon lady’s brown-
and-white silkiness. She is the ideal
hostess. Mrs. C. L. Jones wore the
sleekest dress ; it was of the new metal
fabrics —gold thread and dark brown —
and there was a dash of silver fox across
the shoulders. Lovely music was sup-
plied by Joan Hammond and Lawrence
Godfrey Smith ; the setting by the Aus-
tralia Hotel.
Earl Beauchamp has decided to be his
own landlord in Australia, so he has
bought a house completely surrounded
with tennis courts and other amenities
on the top of Bellevue Hill. From its
verandahs you can see Bondi and the
Heads and the bridge. Now it is a
roomy bungalow, but presently it will
be half as large again, for plans are
already being prepared for alterations
and extensions. March-street, Bellevue
Hill, will be the new address.
Off in the Sultan Star for England to
visit son Peter, who is studying dramatic
art at the Embassy school, go the profes-
sorial Osborn couple. Mrs. Osborn, who
has always been active in the interests
of the Australian Federation of Women
Graduates and is chairwoman of the
International Relations Committee,
wasn’t allowed to depart without a fare-
well cheer from women grads. Mrs.
Greg McGirr, who arranged the party,
smiled it on to success, and handed over
a boomerang of flowers in the Univer-
sity blue and gold to the traveller. Gold
tiger-lilies and the blue of delphiniums
bloomed on the tea-tables, and around
them bloomed such flowers of know-
ledge as Dame Constance D’Arcy,
Camilla Wedgwood, Mrs. Bernard
Muscio, Isabel Fidler and Lorna Byrne.
Mrs. Osborn will go in August to Poland
for the triennial conference of uni.
women.
Another learned lady departing in the
Sultan Star is the blonde Miss Tildesley.
Members of the N.C.W. entertained her,
as did countless other friends and
societies. One of Miss Tildesley’s en-
thusiasms is the repertory theatre.
Billie L’Estrange goes to the Moss Vale
branch of Sydney C. of E. Girls’ Gram-
mar at the beginning of the new school
year to be director of domestic arts and
crafts. That includes spinning and weav-
ing and scouring and dyeing of wool; so
if enterprising pupils wish they can
arrive with a bale or two of .pure merino
and go home at the end of the term with
rugs for the floor or a costume-length for
mother. Leather-work, too, she will
teach, so the kindly ’roo as well as the
snake of the future will be warned from
infancy “Beware the S.C.E.G.G.S. or
they will skin you!” Billie is a mistress
of all her crafts. She first learned with
Lewis Jarvis Harvey, of Brisbane Tech.,
and has since studied in Sydney, Maude
Sherwood and Frank Payne (Mrs. Clin-
ton), among others, being her guides.
Woodwork, pottery and cookery are in-
cluded in this clever girl’s repertory. She
rides well, and is an expert motorist.
The whole of the panelling in the
entrance lounge of the C. L. Jones
home, Rosemont, has been painted
white. The result is an added effect
gained by painting and china and flower
decorations. On Sunday night there was
a music-party at Rosemont, when Law-
rence Godfrey Smith played Bach in a
way that satisfied even Professor Henry
Brose, who, like his friend Einstein, com-
bines science and musicianship. The
white rooms were the right setting for
the plumbago-blue frock worn by Mrs.
Lloyd Jones. Mrs. Bertie Kelly was
another who trailed blue richness. Con-
suls and their wives were there, and half
the judiciary, from the Chief Justice
Jordans down. Fairfaxes, too, were scat-
tered about the landscape, Mrs. Wilfred’s
pretty blue eyes and fair skin set off by
her black frocking. Impressive mauve
laces were trailed by Mrs. Eric Shelter.
Anne Gordon, in tea-rose-pink satin, a
posy above her forehead; Mrs. Peter
Moore, in wide navy and parchment
stripes, and Jean Shannon (Alexander
Gordon’s betrothed) were among the
sweet and young. Another attractive guest
was Mollie. Brenan, from Brisbane.
Evelyn Gardiner was one of the ap-
plauders of Evelyn Lynch’s singing ; so
were Gervas Huxley, U.S. Consul-
General Moffat, the professorial Osborns
and the Alexander Gordon lady.
Theatrical managers must look upon
Gilsullivan actress Evelyn Gardiner as a
pearl among women. She doesn’t mind
turning the laugh against herself. From
one massive part to another she has re-
volved during the present season at the
Royal, and on Saturday night, as Lady
Jane in “Patience,” she was half the joy
of the show. There’s something about
the poets in “Patience” that suggests
“Bohemian” hikers; the cymbal clash-
ing chorus might be the forerunners. to
the Sydney Ladies’ Brass Band, while
the medueval-minded soldiers might be
ingredients in a pageant. As much of
Sydney as could squeeze into the Royal
enjoyed the opening.
Maybe the Tower of Babel was the
first essay in international clubs. On a
day when all the world was wet, Swiss
and Belgian, Latvian, Italian, English
and Australian gathered at David Jones’s
to launch Sydney’s first International
Group. There is, of course, the Modern
Languages Association, which, besides its
more or less educational side, every now
and then eats its midday roll or has jazzy
frolics to the gutturals and sibilants that
circle the Seven Seas and beyond. But
the International Club has its eye on a
social and urbane horizon. The presi-
dency as yet is unfilled, because Bel-
gium’s Consul-General Segaert, who has
been the locum, pointed out that an Aus-
tralian should be at the controls.
The Eccles Snowden lady and Mrs.
Florence Taylor, who helped to hatch the
idea ; Oswald Cheeke, Mrs. Bertie Kelly,
Eric Baume and Sydney Ure Smith were
among the lunchers. Leslie Grenyer and
Mrs. Fraenkel, wife of Breslau’s famed
gynaecologist were among overseas visi-
tors. Charles Gifford, of Prince Alfred’s,
was there, and National Gallery Jimmy
Macdonald talked art with Mrs. Norman
McLeod. Mrs. Moreing, just poised for
another flight, and Ruby Rich, just back
after a prolonged one, were applauders
of the idea.
The wife of Australia’s new French
Consul-General Suzor has had a busy
time since her arrival looking for a suit-
able home. Now Mrs. Suzor has decided
on Eastbourne, Eastbourne-road, Darling
Point, and she and her Consul and the
four children settle in next week.
Dorothy Welding picture.
Luna Park is to have a floating dance
pavilion. The ballroom-to-be started out
in life as a wharf for the water-police, but
now, not much the worse for wear, it
is tethered alongside the amusement park,
and is about to be provided with sides
and roof of glass. Soon, too, the muni-
cipal baths on the north side of the
harbor will be ready for the aquatic-
minded. The water is to be heated
during the winter months, and the baths
are to be lined with porcelain tiles.
Florence Taylor, one of Sydney’s first
women architects, who runs the Building
Publishing Co. and the Arts Club with
equal success, and in her spare time is
an eager town-planner, has now pub-
lished a book of travel. It is called
A Pot-Pourri of Eastern Asia, and has
statistics on everything, from aeroplanes
to shipbuilding. Architecture, temples,
the ways of rickshaw boys, tariffs—no-
thing has been too small or too large for
Mrs. Taylor’s active pencil to note. The
result is a book of racy observation
wedded to useful information for the
intending traveller. The vignettes by
Mary E. Soady and Jean Veitch are
delightful.
We’ll have to buy a cargo of Debretts
if these shiploads of the British aristoc-
racy continue to land in Botany Bay.
One of the latest ladies of title to visit
us was Lady Sysonby, a mother-in-law
to the Duke of Westminster. She is a
great cook, and carries with her a
cookery-book filled with recipes com-
piled by generations of the women of
her family. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax showed
her the sights, and one day was spent at
Moonbara, the Arthur Allens’ Port Hack-
ing home. Sydney was sandwiched in
between Maoriland and Java in Lady
Sysonby’s itinerary. Before he was
raised to the peerage shortly before his
death, Lord Sysonby was Sir Cedric Pon-
sonby, Keeper of the Privy Purse. Their
daughter, Leila Ponsonby, married the
Duke of Westminster some years ago,
and is, in ring parlance, the present
holder of the title.
When Cynthia Stockley visited Sydney
some years ago nothing seemed further
from that vivid personality than a lonely
suicide’s death. Tall, slim and beauti-
fully turned out, she drew every gaze.
She looked exactly as any one of her
heroines might have looked. She talked
amusingly, and her friendships linked
Cape Town to Chelsea. At that time her
great enthusiasm was for the Irish
Players, and she and Sara Allgood were
sharing a flat in London —at least, Sara
was there as prelude to a tour of
America. Poppy and Virginia, of The
Rhodesians, were probably her greatest
successes, although every Cynthia Stock-
ley story created glamorous atmosphere.
Sydney last week was invaded by
health and beauty. Women athletes and
Country Week tennis girls held the stage.
The athletes were the guests of Mayoress
Parkes (the first time Mrs. Parkes has
played the part of civic hostess), and the
girls from our own State, from Queens-
land and from Victoria seemed to find
her more than adequate. In a room that
rioted with red roses the Mayoress made
a neat speech of welcome, Mrs. W.
Chambers and Mrs. D. Mulcahy replying.
The girls spoke for themselves later in the
week when it came to high jumps, broad
jumps, sprinting, hurling discus and jave-
lin and walking—walking 880 yards in
nice, easy rhythm. Now the names of
Clarice Kennedy, Doris Carter, Thelma
Peake, Eileen Wearne, Edie Robinson
and others are notched a bit deeper in
the athletes’ totem.
Commencing to-morrow, no fewer
than 38 bands will blow their own trum-
pets in an inter-State contest at the
Sports Ground. For the first time a
women’s band will be among the com-
petitors—the Sydney Ladies’. For some
years the city has been familiar with
the Cunningham Girls’ Pipe Band,
which competes each year at the High-
land Society’s gathering on New Year’s
Day, but the 5.L.8.8. only came into
being before the visit of the Duke of
Gloucester. Its conductor is Hilda
Tansey, whose father is a well-known
bandsman of Beechworth, Victoria. The
5.L.8.8. gave its first performance in the
presence of Prince Henry.


Business for Sale.
MORNINGTON PENINSULA
(Victoria)
SEASIDE GUEST HOUSE
Opposite Beach
18 acres, Large W.B. House, accommodate 70.
Long established, palais, tennis court, well
equipped, splendid roads, wonderful opportunity
for extending. Chance for company or energetic
family for all-year guests. W. 1., W. 0., Free-
hold. Also guest houses at Phillip Island, Sor-
rento and Mornington.
GEO. HIGGENS, Auctioneer, Estate Agent,
108 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Telephones: Cent. 4675 or Red Hill.
t
Ltf
H \ I Pi
U him run
IN SYDNEY.. /T'S PETTYS
If you are going to Sydney, you should stay at
Petty's. Whether you're on business or holiday-
ing, Petty's is conveniently situated, and ideal
in every way. Tariff: Room and Breakfast
from 11/6. Inclusive, 18/-. Wire or write for
reservations.
PETTY'S HOTEL
York Street Sydney R.J.Lancjley Manager
Legal Notice.
TO the children or remoter descendants of
the male and female ancestors of DANIEL F.
BUCKLY, Medical Practitioner and Journal-
ist formerly of Cork, who died on the 25th
dav of March, 1895, and to JEREMIAH
O’KEEFFE, ANDREW O’KEEFFE, DANIEL
O’KEEFFE, JOHN O’KEEFFE and DENIS
O’KEEFFE or others, maternal uncles or aunts
of MAUD MATILDA BUCKLY and children
of DANIEL F. O’KEEFFE and MARGARET
O’KEEFFE, and to their respective children
and remoter descendants.
PURSUANT to Order of the High Court of
Justice Irish Free State, made in the matter of
the Estate of MAUD MATILDA BUCKLY,
ANDREW O’BRIEN, Plaintiff, and EDWARD
O’CALLAGHAN, Defendant, all persons
claiming to be next-of-kin to or heir-at-law of
said Maud Matilda Buckly, late of 33 Welling-
ton Road, in the City of Dublin, who died on
the Bth day of February, 1934, and in- par-
ticular the male and female ancestors of
Daniel F. Buckly, deceased, who died on the
25th day of March, 1895, the father oi said
Maud Matilda Buckly, the Intestate herein, and
their children or remoter descendants, and
Jeremiah O’Keeffe, Andrew O’Keeffe, Daniel
O’Keeffe, John O’Keeffe and Denis O Keeffe
nr others the maternal uncles or aunts of said
Intestate/are on or before the 26th day of
TVhrnarv 1936, to come in and prove their
data at the Central Office, Law Courts,
Dublin, or in default thereof they may be
excluded from the benefit of the said order.
The 4th day of March, 1936, at 11 o clock
in the forenoon at the Examiner s Office, Law
Courts, Dublin, is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the claims.
DATED this 13th day
Examiner.
Melbourne
Chatter
Any punter who went to Caulfield on
Saturday with the intention of backing
horses with absurd names would have
done quite well. Nasty Man was
scratched from the first division of the
Koakaribb Trial, so there is no know-
ing what might have happened there,
Cackle paid a good div., so did Bite
Again (whose naming was a cunning
subtlety—father Moabite, mother Hasty
Love).
Lady Huntingfield played cicerone to
Lord Gowrie’s aide Captain Holford,
pointing out to him the different parts
of the course, the way to various com-
mittee rooms and the tote in the mem-
bers’ stand. Very smart with her gipsy
earrings and white halo hat' was Mrs.
Bob Guinness. Mrs. Henry Marks (Fiji)
wore a white linen coat and a severe little
hat upon her closely-cropped head.
Shirley Benwell, with no stockings upon
her nicely-tanned legs, wore an oatmeal-
colored suit of raglan fashion with an
arrangement of tucks making a fan-
shaped pattern across the shoulders.
Eileen Ward’s pink dress was orna-
mented with blue cords threaded through
white loophole trimmings at neck and
pockets. Navy-blue frock, hat and shoes
were worn by Meg Massey, and Mrs.
Brian Hogan Taylor was a very bright
spot in her vivid green crepe. Mrs. Alan
Stuart, in black, accompanied tall, fair
Mildred Vaughan, whose floral dress was
in a white-and-green color scheme. Mrs.
Arthur Tilley was slimly wrapped into a
frock of black lacquered taffeta.
For Warrnambool races the course
looked its gayest; the weather was
obliging, and during luncheon and
tea picnic-parties with hampers, vacuum-
flasks, camp-stools and cushions were
dotted all over the parking pad-
dock. On the first day the presi-
dent of the club committee, G. J.
Officer, was present with his wife,
whose choice of color-scheme was dark
blue with a scarlet-and-white patterning.
Mrs. Marcus Whiting wore seaweed-
green with a shady white hat. Mrs. Tom
Fleetwood’s dress was colorful with a
crisscross design in red, white and black,
and her daughter Billy’s race wear was
a coffee-colored linen frock, worn with
a plain linen hat. Mrs. Colin Whitehead
chose a shade of deep ivory, which went
well with a brown hat, belt and hand-
bag. Betty Littlewood’s linen was giddy
with peasant embroideries in many
colors, and Mrs. Charles Kirkham had
an all-navy background for her ensemble.
Hope Dickson wore a dark-blue blouse
with her beige linen suit; her sister
Ruth was in China-blue lightly touched
with a design in scarlet and white.
When invitations for speeches and tea
were issued by Captain and Mrs. J. E. P.
Howey to tenants of the Howey Estate
there was a great deal of discussion
about laying a foundation-stone of the
new building in Collins-street which re-
places Albany Chambers. But, as the
old building has just been given into the
hands of the wreckers, the placing of the
first brick will have to wait for some
future occasion. Those invited to the
tenants’ party met near the lift in the
new Presgrave Arcade, where temporary
carpeted steps were erected for the Lord
Mayor’s opening speech and for a sum-
mary of the growth of the Howey
family-tree and the history of its mem-
bers.
Afterwards everybody walked round
to Rumpelmayer’s, where introductions
were made by Raynes Dickson and a
festive tea was augmented by whisky,
gin and beer. Captain and Mrs. Howey,
who shook hands with all the guests,
were accompanied by their tall young
son Anthony and their daughter Gloria.
Mrs. Howey, in navy-and-white chiffon,
wore frangipanni and carried a sheaf of
gladioli. Gloria wore a green-and-white
printed silk, and Mrs. Wales was in navy
blue with a parchment-shaded straw hat.
The exhibition commemorating the
centenary of Darwin’s visit to Australia
was housed in a glass case at the
Museum. Port Darwin was named after
the biologist, who travelled in search of
naturalistic material in the Beagle, a
sailing-ship with a few dumpy cannons.
Most of the Darwin exhibits were queer
stuffed specimens—a cuscus from the
Celebes, a flying lemur, some batlike
monsters, a platypus and a musk-rat.
Among the people who visited the
National Gallery to look at the new pic-
tures and searched for the Darwin ex-
hibition as an afterthought was W.
Mortill, who, seeing the four rifle-birds,
pathetic little things stuffed to lie flat
on their backs, was reminded of the jack-
snipe which he received as a gift last
week. These particular snipe were shot
at Werribee. They migrate from Siberia,
and are difficult to shoot, as they fly
Very fast in zigzags. They should be
cooked (viscera and all) hanging by the
necks over a spit.
On Friday night headlights in the
Western District turned towards Mt.
Elephant, Derrinallum, where the Jim
Fairbairns gave a dance in honor of Mrs.
Wilfrid Tennent-Hunter. The house,
which contains all the conveniences of
town architecture without losing the
charm of a station homestead in a coun-
try garden, was filled with splashes of
color from huge bowls of flowers. Mrs.
Fairbairn clasped a soft kid belt round
the waist of her pale-green chiffon frock
and clipped a pearl ornament in her hair.
The principal guest, who is saying good-
bye before setting off overseas to join
her husband, was a quaint little old-world
figure in full-skirted white organza, faintly
colored from the threads of a narrow
pink stripe. Mrs. lan Black wore cocoa-
brown lace with a frill of stiffened taffeta
round the edge of the skirt. Green lace
over a golden shimmer was the choice
of Mrs. John Wallace, and a shoulder
spray of crimson flowers an afterthought
for Claudia Palmer’s black moire gown.
Valerie Palmer’s ankles twinkled in a
fluff of sea-blue tulle which broke into
the skirt of her lace dress. Mrs. C. O.
Fairbairn’s frock was beige and brown,
and velvet flowers nestled upon her cor-
sage. An English visitor, Ursula Horlick,
twisted a diamente belt round the waist
of her mignonette-green crepe. Mrs.
Alan Ritchie wore a flowered garment of
sweet-pea-pink organza, and Mrs. Geoff
Street knotted a black taffeta sash at the
waist of her black lace draperies.
Wearing the large warm-weather hat
is Molly, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. Fairley, who has recently become
engaged to Roy Fremantle. Miss Fairley
plays A-grade golf, and will be missed
in pennant matches next season. In
March she and her parents will leave
Melbourne to live in Adelaide. A
Broothorn camera caught this glimpse.
In the Premier’s office Mr. Dunstan
received a visit last week from Mrs. E.
W. Tilley, Mrs. L H. Moss, Mrs. D. A.
Skene, Mrs. E. Desailly and Mrs. W.
J. Borland. The quintet made up a depu-
tation to solicit support for the Girls’
Employment Movement, an organisation
formed to assist girls to find and keep
jobs. The Premier informed his femi-
nine visitors that domestic service is not
placed on a sufficiently high plane—a
point that doesn’t matter much anyway.
The average cook or parlormaid has no
inclination to be written up in the society
papers, and when it comes to elections
she regards voting as a bother. What
she’s interested in primarily is her pay,
her time off and amiable treatment from
the family which employs her.
Melbourne is brushing up its memories
of Kipling. Rudyard visited the city in
the days before cars were generally used,
and a tour into the country per rail or
carriage apparently did not appeal to
him. He spent most of his time in
Menzies’ lounge.
In the Broothorn portrait is a Canadian
visitor, Mrs. F. Neville Smith. Mr. Smith
is an Englishman ; he and his wife have
been married only a year, and are visit-
ing Australia for the first time. After
spending a few weeks here, they hope
to have a look at M.L., and will travel
through Canada back to England, which
they expect to reach in July.
Mr. and Mrs. Sverre Lie are spending
the summer in their newly-completed
home at Mount Martha. The house, built
in a Norwegian design, is charming, and
something quite unusual for Australia.
It is of timber, and the knots are a
decorative feature of the beams of walls
and ceiling. There’s a very old Nor-
wegian three-cornered fireplace in the
lounge, and in the boys’ room the beds
have been built one above the other, as
on board ship. Upon the wooden floors
are rag mats in gay peasant colors, and
the curtains, made from long strips of
Norwegian crochet, have been cut into
shape by Mrs. Lie’s mother, Mrs. Jacobs.
There’s a very antique sideboard, and
the narrow dining-table is eight feet in
length. In the country districts of
Norway the roofs are still of turf, as
they have been for hundreds of years —
when the grass grows thick the goats
are taken up on the roof to feed. Mr.
and Mrs. Lie badly wanted such a turf
roof, but the idea was impracticable in
this climate. Another difficulty appeared
when they found that they would have
had to lease a paddock, and grow the
turf to be used for roofing.
Last week lads who were keen on en-
rolling as cadets in the Vic. Scottish
Regiment went along with their cre-
dentials to Sturt-street barracks. Refer-
ences of good character and parents’
consent in writing were necessary. Five-
feet six was the minimum height for
each candidate, and each young man
was required to promise £3 10s. to help
pay for his uniform. The regiment con-
sists of 22. officers and about 200 men.
Because it is affiliated with the Gordon
Highlanders it wears the Gordon tartan
and sporran.
Originally the sporran was a goatskin
bag. When the Highland regiments were
formed it was thought that such skin
bags looked untidy, and the horsehair
affair, which is really quite a roomy
pocket, was invented. It is an important
and expensive part of the uniform. For
the white portion the tails of white
horses only are used —goat hair isn’t
suitable, and grey horse is apt to turn
too yellow. Laundering directions are:
“Wash the sporran with lukewarm
water and soap, then soak it in milk for
15 minutes ; when semi-dry, plait it, and
after a nice wave has been acquired
comb and brush carefully.”
Australian painter Miles Evergood,
who has lived for nearly 40 years in the
U.S.A., gives a few impressions of well-
known Americans. Theodore Dreiser is
a giant of a man with an Abraham Lin-
colnish expression. When Evergood first
met him Dreiser was doing badly-paid
journalistic work and haying “Sister
Carrie” sent back with rejection slips.
Sinclair Lewis has freckles and red hair,
and looks rather like a jockey. He is
a capital mimic. Gertrude Stein is
of heavy build, with an Eton crop.
If she likes you, you discover in her a
naive simplicity, but if she doesn’t you
simply don’t exist.
May, Ruth and Marjorie Hiscock re-
turned in the Ormonde after six months’
jaunting overseas. Nan Holgate is an-
other traveller who spent last week
unpacking trunks, and Mrs. Clayton-
Daubeny, who was married in Colombo
last June, has accompanied her mother,
Mrs. Arthur Osment, back to Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Clayton-Daubeny’s holi-
day- will last just as long as it takes her
to recuperate after an illness. Settled
in Frankston is Mrs. Colin Calvert, who
had a very quick trip to England. She
spent most of the time with her mother
in Somerset, but managed to visit Scot-
land, and sandwiched in some shopping
in London.
There is nothing haughty about Lady
Isaacs. Last week, with her brother Phil
Jacobs, she enjoyed tea and a chat at
one of the underground coffee-shops of
Collins-street. There the fare is very
simple, and patrons are mostly young
radicals and bohemians, women in town
for shopping and businessmen who talk
shop.
It is surprising that the Foreign Office
published the fact that it “advised the
Commonwealth Government, the Admi-
ralty and the Air Ministry” of a “message”
regarding Kingsford Smith. It is alleged
that an elderly woman medium had con-
tact with the spirit of Captain Beekman
(the pilot who perished in the crash of
the Dutch airliner Uiver), which imparted
the information that Kingsford Smith is
alive but in great danger on a coral island
near Benjoelen, off the coast of Sumatra.
There’s nothing unusual about such
letters. Whenever a ’plane is lost in or
near Australia dozens of mediums,
pseudo-mediums, neurotics and over-
imaginative persons communicate their
“visions” to the Australian Air Ministry.
These clairvoyants are never “in contact”
with latitude and longitude, but prefer
the vague word “near.”
Before returning to Perth after a year’s
travelling abroad, Mrs. W. P. Seed and
her eldest son Dr. Walter Seed are spend-
ing a few days in Melbourne. Mrs. Seed
is the wittiest mother any son could have.
Dr. Seed knows all the social highlights
in at least three capitals. Packing en
route must have been something of a
problem for him, as he’s returned with
48 pairs of trousers and 12 hats.
The horse will never say die. Mel-
bourne’s one hansom still gets fares—
often revellers who somehow think they
can sing more soulfully to a clopperty-
clop than to the purr of petrol. On the
tan in the Alexandra Gardens and round
Albert Park lake youths and maiden ride
everything from thoroughbreds to semi-
Clydesdales and brumbies.


Educational-
ANNOUNCEMENT.
The School for the now world-famous
DACOMB method of tuition in shorthand
and typing has been opened in the new
Presgrave Building, cnr. Howey Place and
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Intending students for this amazingly
rapid course, for daily and evening
classes, are advised to communicate
immediately with B. E. Dacomb, or ring
Windsor 5693, for full particulars of Free
subjects taught and scholarships to be
awarded.
The DACOMB College,
Presgrave Building,
Cnr. Howey Place & Bit. Collins St., Melb.
•FENCING WIRa
FENCE STANDARDS
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIER LIMITED.?-*
START THE NEW YEAR RIGHT
Our job is to supply you at
bedrock prices, and 100,000
satisfied customers through-
out Australia will tell you
we do it.
Groceries, Wire, Netting,
all Building Lines, and all
Farm and Station Supplies
—we can complete your order in full no matter what is
required. Our catalogue gives details .
HIBISCUS WIRE —We are. sole agents for this guaranteed wire. BG. Galv.,
16/6 cwt. High Tension from 20/- coil of 1500 yards. Barb from
17/6 coil of 440 yards. Weldmesh latest Fencing for Cattle, Pigs
and Sheep, from 22/- roll of 5 chains. K Wire from 18/- roll of
50 yards.
SPECIAL TELEPHONE WlRE —Standard 12G. at 20/- cwt; 1 3G. also at
20/- cwt. (12G. runs 1300 yards, and 1 3G. runs 1500 yards.)
WIRE NETTING —Write for full reduced list. FENCING POSTS — I /- each.
GALV. CORRUGATED IRON —New B Grade: 6ft., 2/-; Bft., 2/6 sheet. No
other firm can supply, as we take the whole output from the works—
hence the low price.
CEMENT Best Portland, £5/7/6 ton or 4/9 bag. Special prices on appli-
cation for quantity.
FIBRO CEMENT SHEETS Q.P.S. Price, 2/3 sq. yard, less 3 per cent.
JOINERY Standard first grade doors, 6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin. x 1 £in., single
lots, 17/6; with reduction for quantities. Equally low for all other
lines.
PAINTS Blundell & Spence’s world-famous at 17/6 gallon. Also Crown
at 11/6 gallon.
On All Wire and Netting and on Most Groceries and Most Hardware Lines
We Pay the Freight Free to Main Queensland Ports by Boat.
Lowest also for all Farm Gates; Galv. Iron Baths, 32/6; Ridge Capping, 1/6;
Gutter, l/- per 6ft. length; Tank Material, 1000 gal., 70/- complete; Linseed
Oil: Raw 4/8, Boiled 4/10 gallon; Water Piping; Sheep and Cattle Troughing;
Dover Stoves: No. 7 60/-, No. 8 70/-, piping free; Telephone Insulators:
4in. bore casing at 3/- per foot; Post Hole Shovels, 4/9; and all Agricultural
Tools.
Write for Big Illustrated Catalogue—lt Will Save You Pounds.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
BOWEN STREET (Near Fire Brigade), Brisbane. ’Phones: 83131 (7 lines).
Address Letters, G.P.O. Box 768 K, BRISBANE. No. 1 00.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper House Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
St. George’s College chapel had its
first audition of matrimonial music at
the knot-tying of Freda Overheu and
Austin James. The “Lohengrin” bridal
march hailed the bride’s approach, and
Mendelssohn’s sped the couple after the
ceremony. White gardenias and pale-
pink roses were held before the leading
lady’s white peau d’ange satin, which
shimmered from a cowl neck, along the
full sleeves and beneath the silver girdle
at the waist to the hem of the long train.
Elwyn Thomas ’maided in stitched blue
taffetas finished with a little cape, and
the younger Mrs. R. Crommelin did
matron-of-honor duties with a short
coatee to her soft-pink laces. Both at-
tendants peeped through stiffened eye-
veils which adhered to their tiny cloche
hats.
The W. H. Vincents’ dance at their
lovely home Minnawarra created a wel-
come stir in the post-festive-season dol-
drums. Two white water-lilies floated on
the chatelaine’s black-and-white floral
georgettes as she welcomed the hundred
guests in the lounge. Daughter Lesley
(taking long vac. from her medical
studies at Melb. Uni.) was Junoesque in
classic-cut white sheer crepe, and Eila’s
fluffy silks ran to a gay floral design.
Diddy and Pat de Pledge were there, and
Betty de Bernales—her black creation
was the work of Molyneux.
Mabel Teather honored the Army and
Navy in farewelling Mrs. A. M. Martyn
and Mrs. R. Griffiths Bowen, who have
left the State. The Council Chambers
were decked out with flowers and palms,
a fitting background for the shrimp-pink
silks girding the hostess. The honored
guests carried presentation posies. Mrs.
Griffiths Bowen’s scarlet gladioli were
held before black, white and green
figured marocains, and Mrs. Martyn’s
goldy bloofns nestled ’gainst pastel floral
georgettes. Chatter, tea, speeches and
songs by Mrs. Cecil Treadgold comprised
the programme.
For her marriage to Trevor Rowlands
at St. Mary’s, West Perth, Dorothy
Solomon turned up the back of her wide-
brimmed blue crin. with a swaying
ostrich plume. Cobwebby blue lace
swept the floor as she walked down the
aisle, and the Madonna lilies on her arm
lent a delicate fragrance. Joan Solomon
and Merle Levinson were the rearguard
in twin frocks of blush-pink sheer crepe
hitched to poker-stitched yokes and
topped by small, tip-tilted pink hats.
Molly Mahood, who is soon to become
Mrs. Charles McGlew, wound herself
in a length of delphinium-blue French
crepe for her first bride-elect party.
Betty Merryweather, with pink organdie
frills on her long navy chiffons, hostessed
the tea at her home in King’s Park-road.
Mr. and Mrs. F. H. L. Binney cele-
brated their silver wedding with most
of those taking part in the original cere-
money in attendance. The bridesmaids,
now Mrs. Rowledge and Mrs. Hopwood,
were there, the groomsman, Felix Levin-
son, and Mrs. Binney’s mother, Mrs.
Axon. The Binney home was agog with
Japanese lanterns, colored lights and
flowers, and a three-tiered wedding cake
had central position on the breakfast
table.
Engagements which have caused a
flutter among the younger fry are an-
nounced between Molly Xanthorina, only
daughter of the Lucius Mannings, of Cot-
tesloe, and Brian de la Poer Beresford,
and Mary Burt, of Brunswick Junction,
and Dick Brazier, younger son of Col.
and Mrs. Brazier, of Kirup.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Tennis at the Memorial Drive is now
Adelaide’s centre of attraction. It started
with the appearance of Henri Cochet.
In his match against Queenslander Cum-
mings he was the favorite with the
women ; there was a murmur of sym-
pathy whenever he missed a stroke.
Unpleasant weather attended the open-
ing of the Linton and Wilson Cup tennis
matches. Now that the maidens wear
shorts as a matter of course, it is quite
permissible to remark upon their legs,
and the fine bronzed limbs of several of
the visiting players drew forth admiring
comment. The South Australian girls
are slighter in build.
Mrs. H. Dunstan has been an inter-
ested spectator of the tennis. One day
she wore a black tailored coat and skirt
and small black straw hat, with a black-
and-white-check taffeta scarf. Mrs. Ross
Sawers’s pale-blue grey flat crepe
frock had a white yoke and cuffs with
battlement edge, topped by a wide-
brimmed coarse cire hat. Her daughter
Jean’s linen frock and hat were willow-
green. Mrs. Herbert Rymill was gowned
in navy figured georgette, with cape of
the same and a large hat in an oyster
straw. Katherine Rymill chose a dusky-
pink frisca ensemble, and her wide-
brimmed white straw hat was trimmed
with black-and-red motifs. Mrs. Stanley
Skipper combined a white hat with a
pale-grey toilette; a red belt gave a
touch of color. Mrs. C. E. Dolling was
in navy silk, coin-spotted with white,
and wore a very wide necklace and brace-
lets of red bone. Mrs. R. V. Thomas
looked well in a dusky-pink tailored suit
of linen.
The engagement has been announced
of Mary Isobel, elder daughter of Henry
Newland and his lady, to the Rev.
Andrew Gosse Hay, youngest son of
Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Hay, of Victor
Harbor.
Nancy, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. W. Holden, of Kent Town, will
marry Frank Buttfield at St. John’s on
February 19.
The new Base Commandant of the
South Australian military district, Briga-
dier A. M. Martyn, with his wife and
daughters, Misses Joan and Merris
Martyn, have arrived from Perth, and
are staying at Braested, Park-terrace,
Parkside. Mrs. Martyn likes change of
scene, which is fortunate, as S.A. will
make the fifth State in which she has
resided. The Martyns are waiting the
arrival of their furniture from Perth,
where it is held up by the shipping
strike, before making a home in one of
the suburbs.
Lorna Dean Dawson, who made a
theatrical debut last year under the aus-
pices of the Firm, and is now in London,
has become engaged to Lieut. John
Anthony Walsh, R.A.N., elder son of
Mrs. and the late Mr. Richard Walsh,
of Toowoomba, Queensland. Miss Daw-
son is the elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Dean Dawson, of Hyde Park, Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
The races at Elwick drew a fair crowd,
and a few strange faces showed that
visitors are among us. Navy blue was
again extraordinarily popular, a majority
of the women present being clothed in it,
sometimes relieved by white or red, but
very often just by itself. Mrs. Tom
Giblin, however, was faithful to her
brownish tones; Mrs. Ornstein (Melb.)
sported a black-and-yellow turnout.
Mrs. Geoffrey Clerk’s black-and-white
spots, with red scarf and buttons, made
another exception.
Mr. and Mrs. John Cameron, the Alan
Camerons, the John Fosters, the Jillett
girls (Ross) and numbers of other coun-
try folk flocked into town for the wool
sales, and Hadley’s was a sort of pastoral
centre for a couple of days. Prices were
up and sent everybody’s spirits up with
them, giving a carnival note to the
invasion.
The inter-State Catholic tennis carni-
val led to entertainments of various
sorts when daylight hours were over.
One of the most outstanding parties was
a ball at the Continental, when about
360 dancers footed it to a very bright
orchestra. Archbishop Hayden handed
the Archbishop Kelly Shield to E. J.
Hehir, captain of the successful Vic-
torian team.
When W. E. Shoobridge, the Derwent
Valley’s G.0.M., reached 90, his family
celebrated the thing properly. Among
other functions was a party at Cloverlea,
the V. W. Shoobridge’s home, that fin-
ished up with a banquet, toasts and
speeches, and as many of the 103 living
representatives of the family as could be
were roped in for guests.
Cold sea breezes didn’t deter patron-
isers of the annual strawberry feast from
the run up the mountain. A bazaar
was staged under the trees, and a charity
benefited considerably.
Mrs. J. M. Pardey gave a lunch at
the Launceston Hotel by way of fare-
well to Mrs. Geo. Cragg and daughter
Sue, who sailed next day for Colombo.
i •,,
The table was aglow with yellow nas-
turtiums, and each guest had a gay fan
and an original verse at her place.
Margaret Buchanan is over from Syd-
ney, enjoying meeting and staying with
many of her friends. “No place like
Hobart is her verdict. She was among
the dancers at the Ross Bachelors’ Ball.
Mrs. Reg Allen (Sydney) is among the
N.S.W. visitors to the Speck. Also in
the number are Dr. and Mrs. L Windsor-
(Mel.b->- Sh . e TlrZ
well known in musical and theatrical
drdes when jn Hobart .
daughter of the C. H.
Burchams, Montagu Bay, and Cyril Tin-
ning, West Hobart, announce their
engagement.


FRASER’S CLAW HAMMER
■The CLEVHAM Trade Mark, a clever, useful all-
round tool lately invented; all steel. Send for
free leaflet showing some of the many things this
combination Clevham will do, for it is a clever
hammer. It should be found on every farm and in
e\Try home and in every tradesman’s kit, and it soon
pays for itself. When ordering one CLEVHAM
send postal note for 6/6; for four or more send
4 /Eb each (wholesale price) to:—
JOHN FRASER,
CLEVERLIE, GRENTHOMPSON, VICTORIA,
and they will be sent past free to any address in
Australia or New Zealand. When paying by cheque
please add 6d. exchange.
-If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Renowned
The Hotel Mansions is known far and wide foi
its hospitality, excellent service and cuisine.
"Our guests are always right” and smiling
service is our unvarying policy!
The most central Hotel in the city. Reserva
tions day and night—ever at your service.
Hotel Mansions
King’s Cross. Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
mam
A
f g
i
a
RRANDALERrS
m
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BRANDAUER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: The naive mixture of bar-,
barism and civilisation which prevails in
Rabaul was illustrated a few days ago.
One native was sentenced to two years’
imprisonment for stealing moneys from
B.P. —the chances of a coon being able
to lay his hands on money except through
burglary would have been unthought of
in the German time. Another young
man got three months for “forging.”
Though civilised enough to be employed
in the telephone department and to imi-
tate a signature, he was too wild of
nature to be trusted out after curfew
hour. So he wrote himself a permit “to
be absent from native quarters after the
prescribed hour,” and put his superior’s
name on it. ,
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Readers of We of the
Never-Never and A Little pNiek Princess
will recall Nelly, the good Matured abo.
who stood up to her social and domestic
worries and carried off her little
triumphs as well as could any shining
suburban society leader of the big cities.
Nelly, now Old Nelly, has gone from
Mataranka to Darwin to spend the rest
of her days. She has leprosy. Thou-
sands of Australian readers
knew and liked her in her days
with The Maluka and The
Missus when they lived at the
homestead on the Stanley billa-
bong, east of the Warlocks.
Any small present sent care
Superintendent, Leprosarium,
Darwin, will reach her.
* * *
“M. Turlutu”: Anyone who
wants to understand why
Queensland is kicking up such
a row over the suppression of
road-transport should try a
trip from Pialba, or other of
the seaside resorts near Mary-
borough, to Proston, 150 miles
away. It takes hours, and
involves a night in the train,
together with 5 hours 20
minutes of waiting for trains.
By road service the time is
less than six hours of daylight
travel —at least it would be,
were the public allowed by the Trans-
port Strangulation Board to travel in
the way which it has the impudence
to prefer to the railways, of which the
board’s chairman is Commissioner.
* * if
“Gain”: German and Swedish papers
have been publishing, with tears, the sad
story of King Petterssen, Charles I. of
Tabar. According to their yarn, he was
cast away on Tabar—the three Fischer
Islands, just off the coast of New Ireland
—in 1915, and, after marrying the local
chief’s daughter, succeeded the old
gentleman as king. He then voyaged to
his native land to marry a Swedish lady
named Jessie Simpson. She, finding her
queenship too much for her, returned
to Sweden. Her husband abdicated, and
she is dead. When I was last on the
three Tabars, they did not seem to have
any kings kicking round, and, anyway, if
there had been, the Expropriation Board
would certainly have got them. The
best evidence of royalty that I could find
in that region was a sort of national
arithem, known throughout the Bismarcks
as “Sing-sing belong Tabar”; but we
won’t sing that just now. It has 78
verses, and even the first is not fit for
any company, except after the eleventh
bottle on a desert island.
* * t- if
“Nagheer”: A fine old woman
pioneer of our Awful North—though it
was highly unsafe to describe it so in
her hearing —was Mrs. J. R. Thompson,
o| Ebagoolah (Cape York), just dead at
70 after 40 years in the Coen district.
Born at Rockhampton, she was a tropi-
cal resident throughout her active, useful
life. She was one of the principal share-
holders in Ebagoolah’s main mine, owned
a 10-head stamper battery, and ran a
cattle station successfully, in addition to
taking an active interest in politics and
being the friend and counsellor —nurse,
too, on occasion—of the entire com-
munity. She always expressed the in-
tention of becoming a centenarian, just
to show those Southerners what a healthy
place the North really was, and very
likely would have done so but for the
accident of malaria—which is, by the
way, a comparatively recent importation
to those parts.
* 4= * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A while ago a neigh-
bor and I paid off our casually-employed
harvest hands. They were all first-rate
workers, many of them future small
farmers struggling with new land and
taking jobs in the meantime. Average
unemployed-relief tax on their earnings
was 3s. 7d. per week each. It is a lot
more than I or my neighbor' average
“Never felt better , doctor !”
in u.-r. grab for a decent living from
mixed farming, plus a few outside re-
sources —and we are scrupulously
straight in our returns: it is foolish to
be otherwise. I suggested to one of the
chaps that it was pretty hot for him to
have to support city loafers to that tune.
“Too right it is,” he said, “but you’ve
got to remember that a day’s real work
would kill most of them runts, and they
have wives and children same 'as us. 1
don’t mind helpin’ their women and kids
a bit.” It looks as if the old generous
Australian spirit still survives—outside
cities.
;j; * -i- -k
“Fi. Fa.”: Every morning this
Queenslander reads a large notice which
says “Use the Railways—You Own
Them.” If I owned the railways I would
not only use them, but I’d do a lot
more to them, such as firing superflu-
ities, enforcing civility to passengers and
consignors, and so on. But I don’t own
them or any share in them. Nor do you.
Our railways are really owned by the
financial interests to which the State
owes the money from which they were
built. All I own is the privilege of pay-
ing interest to people who mostly live
outside Australia and of making up the
heavy annual loss. All that the State
owns is the power of making us pay.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The Queens-
land climate continues to get them. J.
C. Qgilvie, just dead in Brisbane at 93,
arrived in that sun-smitten city in the
early 1870 s and lived there or there-
abouts ever since. Up to 90 he sang in
the choir of the Ann-street Presbyterian
Church, the oldest choir-singer in Aus-
tralia. Jacob Mesh, too, has been cut
off at Atherton (N.Q.) in his 82nd year
after 64 years in the North. He mined
at Croydon for a matter of 30 years,
then went farming and railway-building
for another 20. At 78 he began mining
again and sunk a 45ft. shaft, single-
handed, in rock. He left four sons and
seven daughters, all born in the North,
to stand up to the Awful Climate. Some
of the sons stand up over 6ft. to it.
One can scarcely open a North Queens-
land paper these days without reading
of some bright young life cut short at
80 or so.
* He * *
“Zedo”: The pair of young artists
who were discovered travelling free in
a Queensland railway truck were lucky
in striking the tender-hearted G. A.
Cameron on the bench. Another magi-
strate in the North might have taken
a different view. “How did he come to
be caught?” he once asked the sergeant
who enlarged on the enormity of losses
which the railway department suffered
from scalers. “Travelling in an open
truck, y’ Wushup,” explained the ser-
geant. “An open truck?” shouted his
Worship, “Good Griffith, the man’s a
fool and a sybarite. What do you think
they put undercarriages on trains for,
my man?” And he doled out a month
without the option.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mrs. Robert Robinson, a charming lady
over from California with her husband,
will see a good slice of the world before
she returns to the orange-groves. Bris-
bane is a jumping-off place for England
and Ireland. Mrs. J. Robinson tea’d
some 30 guests in the visitor’s honor at
a bridge party at Finney’s.
Just back from her sixth trip to
London is Mrs. J. S. Hutcheon, who
went over to see her son, Dr. John
Hutcheon. A trip over the water took
her to Dublin in time to see the Irish
Sweep drawn, which was done in pageant
fashion, with street procession, costumes
and decorations.
Arthur Groom is president of the
National Parks Association and resident
manager of Binna Burra on Lamington
Plateau, so it is only fitting that when
Marjorie Dunst'an says “I do” and “I
will” they should set off for Binna
Burra, where Arthur has put up a log
cabin. Jean Dunstan has been cast for
the part of bridesmaid and Donald Watt
is to be best* man.
Gladys F. Sharp, an English lass with
novels to her credit, is visiting Brisbane.
Her father is director of Venner Time
Switches, Ltd., and chairman of the
Electrical Industries Benevolent Asso-
ciation. About six years ago Mr. Sharp
visited Australia, and probably will look
us up again this year. Daughter is a
foundation member and acting-treasurer
of the Electrical Association for Women.
Her home at Clapham is a mass of elec-
trical gadgets; but she had to send to
Australia for an electric-jug—unknown
in England.
Mrs. Henderson and violinist daughter
Lorraine have gone to Sydney on holi-
day. Lorraine and Audrey Anderson
were booked for a big broadcast, and
that accounted for the Hendersons’ late
departure on holidays.
In between breasting the breakers, Sir
Leslie Wilson had time to visit the
Nambour golf links and arrange for a
match against G. M. Randall. He tried
to see some of the play in the Sheffield
Shield match, but the weather was so
venomous that he must have been glad
to get back to the beach.
Flowers, streamers and a soprano
babble of conversation made the railway
station quite festive when the girls who
are representing the Brisbane Uni. at the
inter-’Varsity swimming carnival in Adel-
aide started 'south. Lorraine Streeter,
Margaret Grimes, Pat Marks, Clare
Watkin and Barbara Parkinson were the
mermaids.
Canon and Mrs. P. D. Warner, parents
of Mrs. A. E. Moore, celebrated their
sixty-first wedding anniversary on the
self-same day as the Ronald McDougalls,
of Cooyar, notched up the fiftieth anni-
versary of their altar date. The Warners
spent the day at Bulimba House, and
the McDougalls had a huge house-party
at Cooyar, all the sons and daughters
going along to celebrate. Ronald Mc-
Dougall is a noted breeder of Hereford
cattle.
Captain Victor Brisson, who, in addi-
tion to holding his master’s ticket, is an
explorer, an anthropologist' and a col-
lector of curiQS, has arrived in Brisbane
waters in his yacht Bissy Girl, in which
he left San Pedro, California, on Aug.
1, 1933.
A lot of water has run under the
Bissy Girl’s keel since then. The
Tuamotu group, Papeete, Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands, Maoriland and Aus-
tralia have provided berths for her, and
a bell that once rang aboard a Span-
ish mission ship and a mast that once
was owned by the Duke of Schomberg
Lippe have settled down quite har-
moniously. The skipper speaks four
European languages, and can make a
shot at about 16 South Sea dialects.
St. Augustine’s, Hamilton, saw the mar-
riage of Aileen, younger daughter of
Mrs. E. E. Lord and the late E. F. Lord,
of Eskdale, to Gerald, son of the late
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. MacDonald, of
Yabba station, Kilcoy. Mrs. R. H.
Marson, of Toogoolawah, sister of the
bride, was matron of honor. The bride
was in dusty pink with touches of navy,
and Mrs. Marson, in floral georgette in
shades of pink and blue.
Twenty-three kiddies from Cecil Plains
are holidaying at the C.W.A. home at'
Lota, and as almost half of them never
had seen the sea before, their rapture
can be imagined.
When news of daughter Peggie’s con-
tract with Cinesound reached Brisbane,
Michael Maguire hurried the three
younger children into the family car
and drove off to Sydney. The family
cat went, too, as one of the little girls
refused to be parted from it. There is
some talk of Patricia, too, getting a part
in “The Flying Doctor.”
Mrs. Mervyn Gaul, of Sydney, is stay-
ing with her parents, Dr. and Mrs.
Streeter. She brought one-year-old son
Christopher Michael with her.


%
Slromberg
-Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
■fro
m
Vs
ŧ
THIS
□ □ □
If
BUY IT WITH YOUR
SAVINGS ON
BATTERIES.
Milliard Battery Valves are world
famous for efficiency and economy—
their use in the MULLAKD MASTER
Units makes frequent battery re-
placements unnecessary. A new visua
type dial dispenses with the
battery-draining dial light,
and a “battery reserve switch’
makes every battery
useful long after it
would normally have
refused to function
t
S T l«lI k • S -CO II *-I l»- « 0 '
35 CLARENCE ST,, SYDNEY*
RADIO NEWS
STABLE ULTRA-SHORT-WAVE TRANSMITTER DESIGN.
BY
DON B.KNOCK.
More is being learned gradually about
the application of transmitters for ultra-
short-wave purposes, and even with ordi-
nary valves it is now possible to design
a transmitter comparable in stability
with the conventional master-oscillator
power amplifier used at lower frequen-
cies. The first development of any note
in graduation from the simple, self-
excited oscillator is the use of what have
become known as “long lines,” where
large-diameter copper tubing is used to
provide the resonant circuits. Properly
adjusted transmitters of this type, cor-
rectly modulated, may be received with
narrow band-pass superheterodyne re-
ceivers, whereas the ordinary oscillator
transmission, speech-modulated, would
be unintelligible. A further development
of the “long lines” transmitter is de-
scribed in “Electronics” (U.S.A.) by C.
J. Franks, W3CYF, wherein the design
is extended to form a M.0.-P.A. arrange-
ment. This, with the circuit, is illus-
trated here.
Using type-45 valves, the output stage
delivers 15 watts to the antenna with 30
Fig. 1.
The five-metre master-oscillator power-
amplifier high-Q transmitter recently
developed by an American experimenter.
watts input. This transmitter has an
oscillator, buffer and power-amplifier
stage, and an interesting feature is that
the oscillator-grid circuit and buffer-
grid circuit are coupled, instead of the
oscillator plate. Coupling between buffer
P late and power-amplifier grid is indue-
Measurements taken on this trans-
m,tter opera,lng at 56 megacycles (five
Fig. 2.
Each vertical bar represents the resonant line unfolded, the centre connection in
each case being the shorting bar.
metres) show the dynamic carrier-fre-
quency shift under modulation to be not
more than two or three kilocycles, with
complete modulation.
The Metal-valve Argument.
Opinions vary about the introduction
of the new metal valve launched upon a
market already more than replete with
valves of every denomination ; but the
march of progress cannot be retarded.
In radio this applies more than in any
other science, for many activities depend
primarily upon radio for advanced ideas
and applications. The metal valve, intro-
duced by American valve laboratories,
may or may not have been really
needed. Some American manufacturers
of big standing, Philco in particular, are
strenuously opposed to these valves, and
give lengthy reasons why they will not
in any circumstances include them
in their receiver design. Other manu-
facturers hail them with glee as a logi-
cal outcome of valve development with
obvious advantages.
Whether or not the valve industry in
America seized the opportunity of stimu-
lating flagging trade by introducing the
metal valves in what may seem to be
a hurry is not the point: the valves are
on the market, and they are being used
in Australia and elsewhere. There
should not, however, be any wild fears
of obsolescence on the part of people
interested in glass-envelope valves. The
glass-type valve is a tried and trusted
friend, and, so far as the screening ad-
vantages of metal valves are concerned,
the long-established “metal-clad” glass
type is a sound counter-argument.
Perhaps the most' radical feature of
the new metal valve is the base, with
its eight similar-sized pins. All these
valves have this same base, but a
locator projection takes care of correct
placing of the valve in the socket. The
only possible objection here is that a
sharp blow against the valve may break
off this moulded projection. This objec-
tion may be overruled, for nobody treats
valves thus intentionally.
Metal valves have certain advantages
too lengthy to enumerate here, but the
fact cannot be waived that they are likely
for a period to be treated warily. It is a
case of months of laboratory investiga-
tion against years of firm establishment
and proof. The glass valve is much
older than radio broadcasting itself.
Eventually the metal valve, under a con-
tinual improvement process, will be
firmly established. It would certainly
be far too costly an experiment for the
valve manufacturer to withdraw igno-
miniously, especially after all the ballyhoo.
D. B.K.
Australian Musicians Abroad.
There is rejoicing in Australian circles
in London that the A.B.C. has decided
to bring out two Australian girls, Dorothy
Helmrich and Eileen Joyce, to tour its
stations in 1936.
The A.B.C. has chosen well. Miss
Helmrich has probably had more Euro-
pean broadcasts than any British artist in
the world. She is a regular visitor to
Scandinavia, frequently sings in Germany
and Holland, and is popular in Finland
and Switzerland. If people expect
to hear a show-woman with an exhibi-
tionist complex about her high Cs they
had better not tune-in, but if they want
to know how to interpret English,
German and other songs to perfection
they will not be able to find a better
teacher.
Little Eileen Joyce is probably the
most promising Australian pianist of the
day. Still in her very early twenties, she
has played with all the great conductors
of Europe, and earned their admiration.
Her brilliance is her strength, and it is
a brilliance hardly suspected possible
from her small, fragile frame and wistful
personality. She is not a Backhaus, not
a Moiseiwitsch, as yet, but has an elfish
something denied to both of them.
Of the Australian pianists in London
William Murdoch is still the sort of
grand seigneur. Recently with his fellow-
Australian Lauri Kennedy and two
Englishmen he appeared in a chamber-
music concert, and was rewarded by
being told that he was the best chamber-
music pianist in England to-day. Lauri
is Public ’Cellist Number One at the
8.8. C., and there is none finer in the
country. Daisy Kennedy, his cousin, is
still an excellent violinist, but her appear-
ances are few and far between. The
Queensland girl Alma Moodie is, with
Erica Moreni, generally acknowledged to
be without peer among the woman violin-
ists of the world ; nowadays she lives in
Germany.
The vocal art has always been the
strongest side of Australian music. The
post-war Australian woman singer has not
achieved the glory of her pre-war mother
and grandmother, but the males have to
some extent made up for it. Harold
Williams is supreme among the baritones,
and there are plenty of others like Peter
Dawson whose names are known
throughout the Empire. The Adelaide
man Arnold Matters “opened” Covent
Garden during the spring season last
year, and John Brownlee has been a
frequent visitor. There are dozens of
others making a living out of singing—
so much so that the 8.8. C., in a recent
“publicity message,” said that Australia
was renowned for the number of artists
it produced. Which is probably better
than being renowned for our output of
prize-fighters.
London.
KEITH BARRY.
All Round the Dial.
“Old Ham”: The potted amateur
plays under the title “QST” put over
from 2CH Sydney have much to com-
mend them, I admit. Nobody will deny
the sheer value of the American amateur
in times of emergency. He does a thor-
oughly good job, and has the privilege of
handling third-party messages within the
confines of the U.S.A. The “QST’’
plays are based on fact; but they savor
too much of the melodramatic. An
Alaskan episode, illustrating the quick
action of a Maorilander in getting aid to
cameraman Clyde de Vinna when a
smoky stove had sent him to sleep on
the key, was overdone. The Maorilander
in question had been well used to con-
tacts across the Pacific, and thus was
hardly likely to scream to his wife in
hysterical strain that he had got “Alaska,
Alaska,” as a new ham after his first
DX might have done. The idea of tell-
ing the public just how useful amateurs
can be in emergencies is laudable, but it
should be remembered that here in Aus-
tralia there have been outstanding
parallel cases.. The occasion, for instance,
when Cooper, of 4BW Mareeba, during
a big blow which wrecked his masts and
isolated the township, kept communica-
tion open with Brisbane G.P.O. Again,
the speedy rescue of bushed aviators near
Wyndham, where amateur radio saved
the Commonwealth a few thousand
pounds in search organisation. There
are other examples on record.
#
“D.8.K.”: An unusual case of radio
interference was recently revealed in
connection with operation of my ex-
perimental station, and the cause and
remedy are noteworthy should similar
cases crop up. Activity for 12 months
has been on five metres, using telephony.
Only one near-by broadcast listener
reported interference ; the set was an old-
fashioned “blooper.” Several months of
telegraphic activity on 40, 20 and 10
metres followed, with not a single com-
plaint of interference. A change was
made to long-distance telephony work
on 20 metres, and this change brought
to light an interesting fact and prob-
lem. The next-door neighbor found it
impossible to conduct a conversation on
his telephone without my radio trans-
mission breaking through. Investigation
showed that the complaint was sincere;
the interference was R 9 plus! Puzzling
thing was that my own telephone, Bft.
distant from my transmitter, remained
silent; so did other neighbors’. Incom-
plete telephone circuit earthing next door
was suspected, and the aid of the Tele-
phone Department enlisted. A few feet
of lead-covered cable was unearthed ; but
earthing this made no difference! The
trouble was finally traced to the tele-
phone itself. This was of the old wall
pattern, and substitution for the tele-
phone instrument from my own house
showed no interference. In the wall-
type ’phone the microphone was acting
as a detector, and the combination of


Transmission.
vv a vos.
Optimum Direction.
Times (G.M.T.).
I
GSD
1 East
and West
05.15-07.15
|
06.15-08.15
1
07.15-00.15
2
GSG
East
and West
11.00—13.45
«SF
I „
, t ,,
(Sundays 12.nO-I3.45)
8
GSF
Efist
and West
14.00-15.15
GSE
14.00—17.00
USB
I „
»> ft
15.30-17.00
4A
OSD
North
and South
17.15-21.00*
USB
i „
17.15-21.00*
GSI
i „
*1 ft
Experimental only 17.1.5-10.16
QSL
North-west
and South-east
Experimental only 19.30-21.On*
4 li
GSC
East
and West
21.1.5 *-22.45
USB
North
and South
QSA
North-west
and South-east
23.ff0-01.00
GSO
i East
and Wet
r>
use
North-west
and South-east
03.00-04.00
OSL
„
.. » o
The Imported
ULTIMATE
10-valve all-wave
de luxe chassis
and speaker
(the most outstanding all-wave
receiver yet introduced on the
Australian market) is now avail-
able to the public as a unit for
incorporation in existing consoles.
Write us for full particulars.
GEORGE BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also N.B.W. Distributors:
Rola Loudspeakers.
Mullard Radio Valves,
an Ruyten Car and Launch Radio.
r
1
DATE
A
Uj
PHILIPS
METAL CLAD VALVES
EVER since radio first shot like a comet into
the world of music ,and entertainment
Philips laboratories have been alive with
achievements.. . . inventing . . . developing
improving ... KEEPING RADIO UP-TO-
DATE.
Amazing valves ... screen grid penthode
octode ... and now the Metal Clad Series
which are the ultimate in radio development,
offering types for every purpose.
A.C. A.C./D.C. or Battery ... nomatter what
type of set you buy insist on Philips Metal
Clad Valves. -
SR-55
wiring and induction coils resonated
around 20 metres. In other words, it
became a particularly broad form of
crystal receiver! Connecting a .0005mfd.
condenser across the microphone cured
the trouble, either in detuning the circuit
or by-passing R.F. This capacity is large
enough to do the trick, yet small enough
not to spoil speech frequencies over the
land-line. Other experimenters running
across similar trouble should take the
tip.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
New Year’s Day broadcasts were spoilt
by static, the only exception being GSG,
which was quite strong from opening
until 11 p.m. GSG has shown great
improvement, and those with receivers
to tune down to 16 metres have been
able to get static-free reception. The
German on the same band has also been
audible, but so far only at ’phone
strength.
8.8. C. No. 1 transmission has been
patchy, especially GSB, and static has
been heavy on the higher wave-length.
RNE, in the 25-metre band, has not been
so strong, but one transmission, evi-
dently a special for U.S.A., was excellent.
A station that has shown improvement
is 2RO. Either power has been increased
or a directional aerial is being used for
the English session at midnight. This
session is plainly propaganda in the first
part, but later excellent music is given,
and the pronunciation of English an-
nouncements is excellent.
The D.E.I. stations have been also
affected by static, but on New Year’s
Day the station on 26 metres was used,
and was much better. U.S.A. stations
have been poor, beyond WBXK in the
19-metre band in the early morning to
8 a.m. W3XAL has been considerably
weaker on 16 metres.
VK2ME and VK3ME have been
erratic, one night inaudible and the next
difficult to hold down.
On New Year’s Night there was a talk
from the director of the 8.8. C. during
which he thanked listeners for co-opera-
tion and requested further help. He
specially asked for comments on two
points. Did the listener have a sense of
closer touch with the Empire through
the news bulletins, and had a due pro-
portion of programmes been of personal
interest? 2RO also asked listeners to
write regarding the English session.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
Good news for Australian experi-
menters is the arrival of stocks of
Eimac transmitting tubes. VK2KB,
head of Electronic Communications,
Ltd., Newcastle, N.S.W., holds the
agency, and the popular 50T is listed at
only £6 Bs. This price in Australia,
considering all the barriers of duty, ex-
change and freightage, seems to be
something of an achievement, and VKs
should not be slow to take advantage.
VK2AH is taking up his anchor and
making for England, where he may be
heard again under a G call some day.
Before leaving, however, he is willing to
dispose of his complete station and
auxiliary apparatus, and has quite a
lengthy list of items. It includes several
Jewell and Weston meters, 500-watt
power-supply, filter condensers, filament
transformers, antenna equipment, eight-
tube superhet and four-stage 50-watt PP
transmitter. His QRA is Artarmon,
N.S.W., as per P.M.G. list.
In the ballot requested by the P.M.G.’s
Department, N.S.W. voted against the
new frequency division (suggested by the
department), and it is understood that
Other divisions have done likewise. The
position is not satisfactory, and it
is certain that some alternative to
the departmental suggestion is inevitable.
The careless type of ’phone-hound may
end up by having his horns clipped far
shorter than was genially and mildly
suggested in the ballot! Complete dis-
regard of proper organisation can ter-
minate onlv in chaos.
o • o © • •
That keen television researcher Tom
Elliott, VK4CM, of Brisbane, made a
hurried visit to Sydney and looked in
on the writer. He is going ahead with
high-definition and ultra-shorts, and
making good progress. For a DX test
around six metres he is aiming a beam
south and running a strip of sound film
on automatic repeat, .announcing the
station, callsign and wave-length. It is
understood that this transmission will
run on Sunday evenings. Sydney ultra-
short-wave men are requested to keep
A full measure of audio power! A
battery of loud speakers for showground
announcements.
an ear open. As a VK2 call, unidenti-
fied, was heard in W.A. some months
ago on five metres by Mr. Seaton at
VK6MO, DX appears to be well possible.
Twenty-metre DX is in a depression,
but will pick up any time. Meanwhile,
the writer has been hunting the cause of
interference during 20-metre ’phone
transmission on a neighbor’s telephone.
The wall-type ’phone resonated around
20 metres, with the mike serving as
detector. A small capacity across the
mike cured the trouble.
Ten metres has picked up again, and
VK2HZ reports working Finlanders
around 7 p.m., E.S.T., with R8 reports.
VK2NO.
Distinction for Australian Amateur.
It was mentioned recently in this page
that not enough praise had been given
to the eminently successful attempts of
a few Australians in opening up the
experimental 10-metre waveband for
wide-world communication. Overseas
magazines have spread far and wide the
news that amateurs in many countries
have succeeded in making very good use
over long distances of this frequency
region, which a few short years ago was
spurned commercially. It is pleasing to
note that the Radio Society of Great
Britain has awarded and forwarded to
“Con” Bischoff, of Crow’s Nest (N.S.W.),
a special British Empire Certificate, in
recognition of his experimental station
VK2LZ being the first Australian to com-
municate on 10 metres with an English
station. Bischoff spent two weary years
in continual calling and listening under
adverse conditions. It was the hope of
many Australians to be the first to open
10-metre communication with England,
and his success is well deserved.
“Ramblings of a Radiotron.”
One of the cleverest and most artistic
A.W.A. publications to reach this office
is the booklet carrying the above title.
The copy is interspersed with humorous
shadow illustrations, and the functioning
of a valve is explained in verse. In this
way the fundamentals of the valve are
given in a manner with a particular
appeal to the younger student of radio.
There are additional tonics in the form
of sections devoted to Australian statis-
tics dealing with history, transport, com-
mercial items and education and
geography. For the cricket devotee a
section gives a concise history of cricket,
with something about Test activities and
partnerships. Booklet is obtainable from
Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co., Ltd.,
47 York-street, Sydney, by sending a
penny stamp for postage.
What’s What in Radio.
Hollywood is going all out for tele-
vision. Twentieth Century-Fox studios
are inaugurating the first television-
equipped stage there, as a memorial to
the late Will Rogers. It is stated that
the new stage is so constructed as to per-
mit tremendous concentration of light
within a confined area.
* * * *
A radio device to enable a ship to
“feel” its way through fog has been
tested on the French liner Normandie.
A radio beam on a wave-length of 16
centimetres describes an arc of 45
degrees in the direction of the ship’s
travel, and if the beam is intercepted by
any obstacle in its path a loudspeaker
announces the fact to officers on the
bridge. It is stated that objects have been
detected at distances up to four miles.
* H= * *
A new and unique service was recently
put into operation by A.W.A., whereby
travellers at sea may have delivered to
a relative or friend ashore any one of
some hundreds of gift's. The passenger
selects a particular numbered message
and a numbered gift from the A.W.A.
gift book with the wireless officer. The
names of the addressee and the sender,
together with the numbers of the mes-
sage and the gift, are transmitted to the
coast station. The purchase of the gift
and its delivery, accompanied by the mes-
sage, are arranged by A.W.A. The radio
gift service adds another facility to the
many offered by the company to the
travelling public.
* * * *
“4X”: Anti-vivisectionists will find
little to please them in a short article
appearing in the October issue of “Elec-
tronics.” In order to determine the
effect of electrical impulses upon certain
brain tissues, two scientists attached a
sterilised coil of wire to the skull of an
ape under the skin, with the two ends
terminating in the desired portions of the
brain. Surrounding the animal’s cage
are three coils of wire in different planes,
and by passing suitable currents of vary-
ing frequencies through these coils, mag-
netically-induced impulses are set up in
the coil buried in the ape’s head, and
hence any desired stimulus can be
applied to the brain, without in any way
impairing the animal’s freedom of move-
ment. Those who shudder to think of
the tortures inflicted can draw consola-
tion from the fact that the currents so
far have been battery-generated, whereas
they could quite easily have been taken
from the output of a set reproducing the
latest in crooners.
The Q. and A. Column.
In B. 18 /12/’35 is described, a vibrator-type
power supply. (1) What valve should be used
as rectifier ? (2) What are the windings of the
power transformer ? —378. .. ,
(1) and (2) See B. 15/l/’36 for a detailed
article on a vibrator-rectifier power-supply
using a type-84 rectifier with a Ford coil
vibrator and a separate power transformer.
EMPIRE STATION WAVE-LENGTHS.
The Empire Transmitters at Daventry can work simultaneously on any two
of the following waves:
Wave-length, Wave-length,
Frequency, kc. Metres. Frequency, kc. Metres.
GSA .. 6,050 49.59 GSG .. 17,790 16.86
GSB .. 9*510 31.55 GSH .. 21,470 13.97
GSO . . 9,580 31.32 GSI .. 15,260 19.66
OSD .. 11,750 25.53 GSJ .. 21,530 13.93
GSB . . 11,860 25.29 GSL .. 6,110 49.10
GSF . . 15,140 19.82
Present operation is as follows:
"These times are liable to change, but there will always be a 15-minute interval between parts (A)
and (B) of Transmission 4.
Always listen for announcements, as wave-lengths, programmes and times
are liable to change.


iSM
132
m
138
JAWS
CH
vo
1C-
EXPERIENCE MAKES ACCURACY
In lib. units on wide,
fiat surfaces. Hand-
somely plated and
complete in neat
leather wallet.
816
... 8/6 buys it
In the manufacture of the KISMET five major tests
are given, with a final series of pressure tests to
check its readings. No effort is spared to make
the KISMET a truly precision instrument. It is
dependable.
The KISMET standard of accuracy cannot be pur-
chased for less than 8/6. Cheap gauges sacrifice
precision to price. KISMET gives your tyres the
accurate balance which is essential to comfort and
safety on the road.
KW
GAUGE
Sole Manufacturers: WIIAIAM TURNER & BROS., ETI)., Sheffield, Ens.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware St., Melb. C.l.
“SILVER
EDGE* 9
TRADE if MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
'As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Clumn.
SAFE MAXIMUM SPEED.
POINTS TO REMEMBER.
By FRED BERRY.
HIGH maximum speeds and the consequent fierce accelera-
tion possible when driving modern cars are subjects of
grave concern to traffic authorities throughout the world, for,
whilst it is recognised that speed is an essential feature of
automobile transport, it is none the less true that beyond certain
limits the hazard to which life and property are exposed* is too
great to be sanctioned. The question of the legitimate limits
is discussed in the following article.
How difficult it is to legislate for a
safe maximum speed may be judged by
comparing contemporary British and
American practice. In Britain on cars
used in built-up areas —in fact, exclud-
ing only deserted country roads —a maxi-
mum speed limit of 30 m.p.h. is im-
posed, and yet after a year’s trial the
position is no better. The ratio of acci-
dents to cars used has increased, while
the erstwhile friendly relationship be-
tween police and motorists is becoming
strained. At the other extreme, police
patrols regularly book drivers for
“loitering” if they are discovered driving
at less than 40 m.p.h. on national high-
ways in the U.S.A., yet the percentage
of accidents involving loss of life is less
there than in England.
Obviously it is impossible to deter-
mine an arbitrary safe maximum. The
factors involved vary to a great degree.
While 40 m.p.h. may be a perfectly safe
rate for a skilful driver in a modern
car in good mechanical order, the same
speed may be accompanied by grave
danger if attempted by a novice in an
older and less efficient vehicle. Admit-
tedly much of the blame for existing
unrest and experimental policies lies with
a small percentage of irresponsible
drivers who, either through ignorance or
sheer cussedness, behave in a manner that
casts a stigma upon the motoring com-
munity as a whole, and consequently
forces the hands of Authority.
Old and New Cars.
Taken by and large, the majority of
drivers are law-abiding citizens who,
although surrounded by innumerable
regulations with the majority of which
they are not wholly conversant, attempt
to play the game and drive in such a
manner as to cause a minimum of in-
convenience to other road-users and the
least damage to their own property and
persons. Even so, this huge body of
motorists, made up as it is of those
possessing a wide variation of driving
ability and including the drivers of both
modern and old-fashioned vehicles
should realise that a safe maximum speed
is something that is entirely individual
and is governed by a number of factors,
each having a direct bearing upon the
issue.
Most drivers when casually requested
to state what, in their opinion, would
be the safe maximum speed at which
their car could be driven would give a
speed very near the full throttle limit on
a good level road. Actually the speed at
which any car can be driven in safety
is governed by type of car used, skill
and experience of drivers, efficiency of
braking system, condition of road sur-
face, state of traffic, condition of
tyres and, finally, seating position.
Dealing first with types, it must be
clear that modern machines, owing to
easier steering and lower centre of
gravity, can be controlled with greater
precision and with less physical effort
than those of a few years ago. The real
danger now lies in the lack of fuss or
vibration at high road speeds, which may
lure a driver into running into a dan-
gerous situation at a speed higher than
suspected.
Independent front-wheel suspension fitted, to high-powered Continental racing
machines. Illustration depicts Fagioli rounding a bend at high speed in the Penya
Rhin race. Note near-side front wheel riding over the kerb.
Sound Judgment.
Here the elements of skill and experi-
ence play a prominent part, as once the
car is taken from the garage the daily
drive is a continuous round of problems
involving judgment of distance and speed.
A good driver, even with all dashboard
instruments out' of gear, should never
be in difficulties, however awkward the
traffic or road problems may be; yet
others, less skilful or perhaps less fortu-
nate, even though an audible warning
device indicating a maximum road speed
of 30 m.p.h. (as is now common in Eng-
land) was installed, would always be in
some kind of trouble.
A safe maximum is, of course, almost
entirely governed by the facility with
which brakes can be applied and the dis-
tance in which the car can be stopped,
for if it were possible to bring the car
to rest instantly at the driver’s behest
any speed would be safe. As a conse-
quence, braking equipment and brake
efficiency have a vital bearing upon the
issue. It is astonishing how few
motorists have any definite knowledge of
the possibilities of their car in this regard.
Were it possible for every driver to
know precisely the exact distance in
which his car could be stopped at dif-
ferent speeds from the moment he de-
cides to act, there would be fewer
mishaps.
Recent research on this subject has
provided data that could with advantage
be given careful study and attention.
Good Brakes.
There is a wealth of wisdom in the
axiom “A car is no faster than its
brakes,” meaning, of course, that if two
cars of similar power and speed were
driven over a set course by drivers of
equal skill, the brakes of one being
highly efficient while the other equip-
ment was slacked off, and consequently
inoperative, it is obvious that the one
with good brakes would cover the jour-
ney in a shorter time and with less risk
than the other equally fast car.
Fortunately, old-fashioned and ineffi-
cient braking systems are fast disappear-
ing from the road, and the four-wheel
assemblies, standardised a decade ago,
have now been perfected to such a degree
as to permit higher speeds with a greater
factor of safety.
Unfortunately, a great number of
drivers, accustomed in the past to
handling cars of low braking efficiency,
become obsessed with the idea that they
can stop “dead” from 15 or 20 m.p.h.,
and that, even when cruising at 45 or
50, a few lengths is ample room to
bring the car to a standstill. This general
misconception has frequently been
responsible for disaster.
Actually, it is impossible to bring a
car to rest instantly once the road wheels
have commenced to rotate, for two rea-
sons. First, the physical factor of
deceleration, or rate at which a car can
be stopped, which is governed by fric-
tion between tyres and roadway and also
by mechanical efficiency of brakes —
both varying quantities. Second, the
time-lag introduced while the driver is
bringing the mechanism into operation.
This latter factor is one seldom con-
sidered in assessing brake efficiency, yet
it is a vital issue in determining a safe
maximum speed, as the human element
plays a very important role.
Theory and Practice.
From a purely physical viewpoint
maximum braking efficiency is reached—
at least, in theory—when (assuming the.
coefficient of friction between tyres and
road as 1) a car can be stopped in 30ft.
from a steady speed of 30 m.p.h. Under
certain favorable conditions of road sur-
face and tyre equipment this theoretical
maximum has been bettered, but on per-
fectly smooth roads it serves as a safe
figure for comparison.
Motorists are provided with data as to
the stopping distance of the various cars
when submitted to road tests, but it
must be remembered that this informa-
tion proves only what brakes can do
after application, and does not take into
consideration time-lag.
Practical brake-testing, whilst an
apparently simple matter, is surrounded
with many difficulties if precise results
are to be expected. Usually results are
given from either 25 or 30 m.p.h. (the
higher the speed, the greater difficulties
are experienced), but, whichever is the
case, it is almost impossible to determine
the exact spot on the road when the
brakes are first applied. Various in-
genious expedients have been tried in
order to test this point, including a pistol
mounted on the running-board, arranged
to discharge on the road when the pedal
is depressed, but none has proved
wholly satisfactory. Where comparative
results are sought, however, consistent
and reasonably accurate data are obtained
by carefully noting tyre-marks when first
a grip is taken of the road, whilst
theoretical calculations are generally
secured by affixing a Tapley meter to
some part of the car and reading
deceleration from a graduated scale.
Stopping Distances.
Motorists must dismiss from their
thoughts such ideas as stopping instantly
from even so low a speed as 5 m.p.h.,
for research has shown that, assuming
maximum efficiency of braking and tyre
equipment, coupled with a perfect road-
way, the following figures are the best
to be expected, even if there is no undue
tardiness in applying brakes:
Stopped from 5 m.p.h. in 0.83 ft., 10 in
3.3 ft, 15 in 7.5 ft., 20 in 13.3 ft., 25 in
20.8 ft., 30 in 30ft., 40 in 53.4 ft., 50 in
83.5 ft. and 60 in 130 ft.
Now the human element must be in-
introduced, and results of tests conducted
in “safety lanes” over the last few months
throw some light on the reason for so
many accidents, despite modern equip-
ment.
In these tests conditions imposed
closely approximated those common to
city operation, except for the fact that
drivers selected were warned beforehand
what to expect, a decided advantage.
Six new cars were used, the brakes of
each having been so adjusted as to stop
the car in 34ft. from 30 m.p.h. Driven
at this speed through a lane of traffic
lights, drivers were ordered to pull the
car up as speedily as possible when a
red light appeared, and the following in-
teresting results were obtained:
No. 1 stopped in 66ft., No. 2 in 70ft.,
No. 3 in 68ft., No. 4 in 74ft., No. 5 in
62ft., No. 6 in,6sft. This seems to prove
conclusively that the average “delay
period” from the moment the stop signal


Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
Removing an obstinate nut in
the chassis member can readily
be done by locating a fixed
spanner inside the channel sec-
tion, as illustrated.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
i
*
■
+6&P*' i
i
»
*«s*
H*
x
: •:•:••:.
sfc
J3SSP
• '---xS-
teg*
II
JS?f3 *5
1
la
IM
Hi
KK:£?*SS
, * ~- « "
• ** w /
iv&:3£s£l*S
f-*SS:¥xSSS?S
s mq Jj«f«l,M „
**»■ «WB IB
'-■'<' J 'S'
S '■£■.'’■ ■
» - '
, v ., > , >'' VJ * #*< r v ,
j - v . . f s£%s& v o % .+ *- v s \*' •*' ¥!& & $ . : v ~ ’ &
!®ili!liii
was observed until the brakes were fully
applied could be translated into an aver-
age of 33|ft— almost a 50 p.c. addition
due to the human element.
So it will be found that each individual
driver has his safe maximum speed at
which to drive, irrespective of the car
used, and, further, that unless tyre equip-
ment is in good condition, and the
seating position at the wheel is comfort-
able and permits of maximum control,
the maximum is correspondingly reduced.
INTERNATIONAL MOTOR RACE.
Perth to Sydney via Adelaide and Darwin.
Abandoned by reason of failure to
comply with international racing con-
ditions, the proposed motor race across
Africa from Algiers to Johannesburg
(8139 miles) has left a gap in the world’s
sporting calendar that well might be
filled by Australia. No country is better
suited for the holding of such an event,
as the routes available would provide a
variety of terrain for an international
competition that would test the capabili-
ties of the world’s best drivers and
machines.
The suggested route is from Perth to
Adelaide (1750 miles), Adelaide across
continent to Darwin (1995 miles) and
thence via western Queensland and
Bourke to Sydney (2827 miles), making a
total distance of 6572 miles, and a worthy
substitute for the abandoned S’African
event.
The course abounds with hazards that
would preclude unduly high average
speeds. The existing records (supplied
by H. B. James, of Dunlop-Perdriau)
give a fair idea of the duration of the
race. Fastest time so far for the run
from Perth to Adelaide, 58 hours, is held
by the Misses Jean Robertson and K.
Howell (Lancia), and averages a shade
better than 30 m.p.h. The Adelaide-to-
Darwin record, 153 hours 40 minutes,
stands to the credit of L. Nudl and A.
Kimmick (Chevrolet), the average speed,
13 m.p.h., telling its own story of the diffi-
culties encountered over this section. The
Darwin-Bourke-Sydney stretch has been
negotiated by Dr. Allan Mac Kay and
B. Wood in an Essex Six in 125 hours
53 minutes, averaging 22.3 m.p.h. The
aggregate of the three records is 14 days
1 hour 33min., a daily mileage of 466|.
With the prestige given Australia by
the centenary air race still fresh in mind,
the promotion of a contest over the route
outlined, with compulsory controls at
Adelaide, Darwin and other points, and
a prize list worthy of the occasion, would
certainly attract competitors from over-
seas and gain world-wide publicity for
the Commonwealth.
Critics of the suggested route claim
that racing on the highways would be
opposed by traffic authorities and that
a closed circuit in one of the capital cities
would be more attractive. While there
is no doubt that with a sufficiently attrac-
tive prize-list a closed circuit would
attract a leavening of overseas drivers
who possess extremely costly Grand Prix
type racing machines, the makers and
drivers of cars usually seen on our roads
would be left out in the cold.
So far as traffic difficulties are con-
cerned, the transcontinental project
could be controlled in a manner satis-
factory to all parties. One merely need
refer to past practice in France, Italy,
Germany and other Continental coun-
tries with far denser population than
ours to see what can be done to make
long-distance racing classics safe for the
public if all parties concerned are en-
thusiastic.
Actually, the thinly-populated areas
through which the proposed route would
pass would support and welcome the
venture, for they would receive valuable
publicity.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
T.R. (Mt. Gambier, S.A.). — I have recently
had my \A-h.p. four-cylinder car (52,000 miles )
rebored 22 thou. Will the increased volume of
the motor require alteration of jets in carburet-
tor to secure best performance ?
Yes, as your carburettor is fitted with remov-
able jets, a few experiments with larger sizes
are advisable. At the same time, larger choke
tubes should be tried if best results are to be
obtained.
* * *. *
F.B.X. (Gilgandra, N.S.W.). — Would any
parts of the engine, differential gear, etc., of a
1920 Studebaker be similar to the ’24 or ’25
model and suitable as spare parts ?
You do not indicate types—-whether Light 6,
Big 6 or Special 6. Fully 75 p.c. of parts are
interchangeable with same type of ’24 or ’25.
* * * *
M.J. (Ipswich, Q.). — For some, time my
engine has suffered from lack of fuel on open-
ing the throttle. Pulling out choke partly recti-
fies the trouble. Have changed carburettor
without improvement. Any suggestions ?
Unlikely that carburettor is cause of trouble.
Valves may not be seating, owing to gummed
or warped valve stems or to riding on tappets.
Have these checked, and, if trouble persists,
look for an air leak in the induction mani-
fold.
D.Y.T. (Orange, N.S.W.). — I desire to refit
the wind deflectors on my ’2B tourer, and find
if necessary to alter position of brackets. Can
fresh holes be drilled in the glass without a
diamond ?
Yes. Get a length of brass tubing of the
diameter of the hole, true up the end in a
lathe and fit it in a drill-chuck. Lay the glass
on a rubber pad and, using coarse grinding
paste and turpentine* as an abrasive, drill half-
way through from each side. Finish off the
hole with a round file, using turps as a lubri-
cant.
* * * *
F.E.S. (Nymagee, N.S.W.). — My four-cylin-
der car (named) often breaks a big-end bear-
ing. Two years ago a hole was knocked in
the cylinder wall, which had to be relined.
Later the oil-pump spring broke and ran a
big end. Since then one seems to go every
500 miles. Would a full set of bronze bear-
ings stand, or does the engine want the four
cylinders lined ?
No. In case of subsequent seizure, bronze
bearings would wreck the engine. Possibly as
a result of first mishap, the crankshaft has
been twisted out of truth, causing repeated
bearing trouble. Suggest dropping sump, truing
crankshaft and fitting new set of babbitt bear-
ings.
* * * *
F.R. (Terang, Vic.). — Whenever I replenish
water in the radiator of my ’29 model six-
cylinder car there appears to be a brownish
frothy scum on the surface. Car seems to
pull as well as ever, but as the froth has
only recently appeared I was wondering
whether I am running any risk in continuing
to use the car.
Symptoms indicate either a blown cylinder-
head gasket or cracked cylinder wall. Frothy
condition of the cooling water is due to oil.
The defect should be located and eliminated
at once, otherwise the efficiency of the cooling
system will be seriously impaired.
* * * *
G.F.B. (Greenwich, N.S.W.). — Where can a
chart of the wiring of the ’26 bullnose Morris
be obtained ?
York Motors, Ltd., William-street, Sydney.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Jeffo”: Drove into Sydney from Belle-
vue Hill the other night in a car which
has the wheels detachable at the hub.
When turning into Castlereagh-street
from King-street the car lurched and
started to kick up an unmerciful din. I
stopped immediately, and was surprised
to see one of the front wheels go sailing
on. On examination I found that three
of the wheels had the nuts removed.
Evidently I disturbed someone who was
preparing to remove the wheels when I
got into the car. It was only when I
made a turn that the pull was sufficient
to remove a wheel.
* * * #
“Kerys”: Two N.S.W. motorists who
were driving along a country road noticed
an old lady, wizened but exceedingly
alert, seated with her small carry-all by
the wayside. They stopped and offered
her a lift. She clambered in with profuse
thanks, and after travelling a few miles
asked to be set down. As the nearest
village was still 10 miles distant and
there was no sign of habitation where
she alighted, her motorists became
curious. “It’s all right,” she assured
them, “I’ll just start back with me bag
and somebody will pick me up. I like
a bit o’ motoring now and then, and
this is the only way I can get it.” Two
dazed young men watched her hobbling
off in the dust, and when a big sedan
swept' past them a minute later they
watched its progress with interest. It
stopped and duly collected their recent
passenger.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best- INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State ‘on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania*
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full 'particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydnev Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RiEUSSET, Representative.
Supposing ...
Just
Supposing!
. . . that 4 people
only read each one
that’s printed. Four
times 61,361 is 245,444
. . . practically one
in 21 of S.A.’s popula-
tion . . . coverage?
Advertise in
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newspaper House. Collins street.
SYDNEY —P A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street
LONDON —F A. Smith. 34-40 Ludeate
Hill. E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply t°
any accredited advertising agency-.
National
Advertisers:
IEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. 31essenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, .Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, L,td., Adelaide.
b
The Centre of Tas-
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
'-THE EXAMINER" is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial, and Tourist Centre of Tasmania.
"THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 93 years, and is the Newspaper read by Northern
Tasmania to-day.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and
“Saturday Evening Express’’ obtainable from:
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chamber 8 '
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia-
_ “Sirdar —he give them,” she said in her halting'
Fijian. Her tone was proud. It was a fact that the
sirdar was her lover. Apaia and Ramkali did not
speak ; if one was down at the house, the other did
not come near it. Dubar, the husband of Ramkali,
did not seem to come into the picture at all. Ramkali,
speaking of him once to Elena, who was frankly
intrigued by the situation, said in all simplicity, “He
sleep outside house when sirdar, he come.”
“No good—marrit,” Apaia commented mourn-
fully. “Sirdar nice man once —not now. Too much
talk bad to me.”
The months passed. Ruve had been back two
years and had turned nineteen when Chance brought
Dick back into her life.
Laurence was in Suva on a business trip. He
was on the wharf, superintending the loading of
stores into his cutter. Absently he noticed a
tall young man, obviously a stranger in the pic-
turesque town. He sat on a bollard-, smoking with
the air of one who found hiinself in command of
unexpected leisure.
It was nearing noon ; Suva was thronged that
dazzling day with American tourists —camera-laden
men in immaculate white, women in extremes of
fashion fluttering like butterflies in the streets of the
little city, bargaining eagerly, stridently, in the Indian
and Chinese shops. On the wharf Island women
squatted under gay umbrellas with a picturesque array
of baskets, beads, shells, fans and curios spread before
them. Their voices rose entreatingly as the tourists
passed. From the high deck of the liner passengers
looked down with varying interest.
The little Elena lay low in the blue water, and
up from her deck came mingled odors, that of copra
predominating—though her copra had been dis-
charged in Levuka a day or two earlier. Down by
the open hatch stood Tomasi, the Fijian captain, in
a dingy shirt flapping loose over his rolled-up khaki
trousers. Viliami, one of the crew of two, came
from a loaded truck bearing a case on his woolly
head. He stumbled over a coiled-up length of chain,
and, to the accompaniment of Laurence’s angry shout
of warning and Tomasi’s “Plooty fool —you!” he fell
in a sprawling heap at the edge of the wharf, and
the cues, hurtling forward, would have sunk through
scummed blue water had not the stranger, springing
forward, stopped it in the nick of time. The prostrate
Viliami eyed him with lively gratitude, Laurence with
interest. That was how the acquaintance began.
Later they strolled up the crowded town for a
drink, Laurence by now very favorably impressed by
the young man. He liked his vigorous build, his
steady eyes and mouth and chin. He was always one
who prided himself on his first swift judgment of
men. His mind was made up before they reached the
first hotel.
“I understand, Carew, you’re a newcomer here.
What do you think of the Islands?”
“Well, I’ve not seen much of them yet, sir,” said
the other, with his singularly attractive smile. “But
I like what I have. It seems to me there’s an immense
future here for anyone who isn’t afraid of work and
believes in the country.”
“H’m! Strikes you like that, does it? You’re
not far out. What are you doing for a living just
now?”
“Odds and ends, tallying on the wharf —whatever
comes my way.”
“How long have you been at that sort of thing?”
“Not long. 1 came to Fiji on a cargo-boat, but
I didn’t see eye to eye with the second mate. The
result was I was out of a job. I. have an idea of
trying my luck' out on one of the plantations or up
country. The trouble is—getting the job.”
“H’m! What would you say to an overseer’s job
on my place? I’ve been looking round for one for
some time. I’m not too easy to suit, but I think we’d
do well together. You’d not take long to pick up the.
work. - I’ll give you a month’s trial, and, if you suit
me, we’ll talk business. What do you say?”
“Do you mean it? It’s the chance of a lifetime,”
said Dick, with an enthusiasm that delighted the
older man ; “but hardly fair to you, sir. I know
nothing whatever of the work and nothing whatever
of Fijians or coolies.”
“You’ll learn quick enough, lad, or I’m no judge.
That’s settled, then. Can you be ready to sail this
evening?” ,
“Rather!” said Dick. “And thank you for the
chance —it’s one, I’ll own, I never expected.”
Said Laurence reminiscently:
“I got my own chance twenty-odd years ago. I
never looked back. Up to me to do the same by
another, I reckon. Well, the Elena’s sailing round
about six o’clock. You’ll have time to get anything
you’re needing.”
The two shook hands.
That was how Dick came to Ruvia.
They got in late in a rainy dusk. Lanterns, car-
ried by the sirdar and young Denny, came bobbing
down the long wharf ; a muscular Fijian sent a clatter-
ing truck rolling down to meet them. Dick, landing
from the rocking dinghy on to slippery, wave-washed
steps, seemed to feel rather than see the hills of Ruvia
loom up black in the thickening dark—a blackness
pricked by yellow lights along the shore.
The shuttered verandah, with its welcoming lamp-
light, was warm and bright. A dark-eyed, sleek woman
rose from a cushioned wicker chair and came trailing
languidly forward to welcome them. She was past
her first youth, but she still had a rich, mature loveli-
ness. A woman who would love ease and luxury, was
Dick’s first thought. There was something vividly
disturbing about her; he didn’t altogether trust her.
But her greeting was a very cordial one ; her magnifi-
cent, indolent eyes dwelt on him with approval. The
young girl at her side had all her amazing loveliness ;
you saw what she had been in her stormy youth. And
then into the verandah came another girl—a fair, tall
girl with fair hair twisted low on the white nape of
her neck and with blue, soft eyes that had been tear-
misted when they had looked at him years ago in a
quiet garden. Ruve —he remembered the soft Island
name —the little shy girl grown to a woman. He for-
got the dark beauties as he took her hand.
“Ruve! Little Ruve Laurence!”
“Dick!”
“Oh! ” said Elena, interested. “So you and Ruve
know each other?”
But to Dick it was as if the round world lay
captive in his eager hands.
Laurence, that grim judge of men, congratulated
himself on his new overseer. For Dick took to the
work enthusiastically; threw himself with all the
energy and sagacity of his character into all that con-
cerned this new life. He had a way, too, with the men,
that commended itself to Laurence; he could handle
them. He wrestled doggedly with Hindustani and
Fijian, sitting up late with the books he had sent for,
adding steadily to his growing vocabulary in the days.
‘The lad,” said Laurence with intense satisfaction,
“will do.”
Which for him was high praise.
There must have been some quality in Ruvia itself
that made men love it. Dick, too, fell under the
almost intangible spell. Women resisted: Elena had
tried with some measure of success to make Ruvia
merely a background to herself; dead Madeline
had felt in the lovely island something strong and
conquering that came between her husband and her-
self. Vivien said often that she was tired of the place
and wished they lived in Suva or Levuka. “I love
dances . so,” she said wistfully. But lately she had
seemed much more content. Ruve, alone of them
all, understood the intense feeling her father had for
the place, could sympathise in her heart —she would
not have dreamed of doing so openly—with that
inarticulate emotion of his.
Chapter IX.
RODDY was coming home.
He had been back twice since Ruve’s return,
but those visits had been more in the nature of
holidays. This time his father decided the boy must
make his choice: decide whether he would stay and
take his share in the management of Ruvia as was
the old man’s dearest wish —or go back and make a
place for himself in the Auckland he loved. Laurence
was not quite clear as to what it definitely was Roddy
was aiming at; he knew the boy had some queer,
fantastic notion in his head of being a poet or a
painter—he was not quite clear which it was, or if it
was both. Damned rot! He'd never make a living
at either. He had seen fugitive poems, a brilliant
short story or so in a Sydney paper. Clever enough
they might be —he owned himself no judge in these
peculiar matters—but they would lead nowhere.
Roddy had had his fling at these queer pursuits, but
the rich estate of Ruvia was waiting, and he had little
doubt in his mind which would conquer. Rod was
twenty-two; it was time for him to settle down in
earnest. Laurence, eager to have the boy working
with him, looked forward impatiently to his arrival.
Ruvia was a pleasant place these days; it had
mellowed and taken to itself a traditi<?n among its
hospitable neighbors of an even more lavish hos-
pitality: Laurence was a genial host; Elena loved
having people ,to stay, and the two pretty, blossoming
girls shed about it an atmosphere of glamorous youth.
Dick and Denny, too! And now Roddy! Youth
seemed to brim over the. lovely island in an irresistible
tide. Young girls - and men. Laughter , and careless
song ; swimming, tennis, dancing in the moony nights.
Dick and Denny lived in the overseers’ house. It
was a long, low building of which half was used as a
storeroom and the other half divided into small bed-
rooms, a dining-room, a long verandah and a kitchen,
where a lank Indian cooked for them, though on
festive occasions they dined at the big house.
Laurence liked a tableful of young, merry folk.
Roddy came. Tall, good-looking, clean-limbed,
he'might have posed as a figure of virile youth. He
was fairer than Ruve ; no one ignorant of his history
would have guessed that color stained his blood. His
father, in high feather, took it for granted that this
time he had. come to stay—an attitude of mind the
young man rather resented. But he was good-natured
to a fault and averse to disappointing people ; so, on
this first evening of his return, he let the old man
rear his airy castles.
(To be continued next week.)


I-I i - :
■m
You won’t be free from
RHEUMATISM
until you banish Excess
Uric Acid from your system
I T RIC ACID in excess is
recognised as the prime
cause of Rheumatism.
It accumulates in the
system when the Kidneys,
either through some tem-
porary disorder or some
particular disease, are
unable to perform their
proper function.
It is therefore obvious
that the only way to obtain
permanent relief from
Rheumatism is to assist
the Kidneys to dispel all
excess Uric Acid from the
system.
The quickest, safest and
surest way of doing this is
by taking Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pill s—the Kidney
Remedy which has achieved
great success throughout
Australia during the past
25 years.
Mm
§m
V-
'tW&£
< :'
vit
vm
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
will correct any temporary
disorder of the Kidneys, and
assist them in quickly elimi-
nating all excess Uric Acid
from the bloodstreams.
Anyone can take Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills, as they con-
tain no harmful ingredients
and cannot help but do you
good, They will bring to you
the same relief that they have
brought to thousands of one-
time sufferers of Rheumatism
and other forms of Kidney
Trouble.
Call at your Chemist’s to-day for a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
' ™
- -
Take % Pills to-nigkt
— you’ll feel better
to-morrow .
D» SHELDONS
27 Pills
1/9
IMMENSE SALES
60 Pills
2/9
.
i
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payme*it.
NAME 1...
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
TC
\C
iV o «0* *<«, ,# C **e
pyy- >vs^w*^'
*
». i J 1 .* „• . * ,
A*
v°
o'
>o^
fc C)V V
el
L**
'
*» JMta**'


Effect
Your LIFE
Assurances with
15he
NATIONAL MUTUAL
The Largest Mutual Office in Australasia conducting
business on the “ Ordinary ” Premium basis only.
EVERY POLICY-HOLDER
IS A PARTNER
THERE are No Shareholders
Any Quotation Furnished on Request
&/>e
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869
Offices:
350 George Street, Sydney.
Oswald St. Clair,
Manager.
