

Policyholders Share all
Profits - Ho Shareholders /
mumm
mm,
m
ss •
V." .
iA-m w
m
■r-l
m/om.
ST
if< 1 ‘ ‘
' MUTUA
!
7
•»
• ’ ,
& I l
The whole of the funds and surpluses belong
to the policyholders. It is their company, theirs
is the benefit of the wise administration, continual
progress and solid securities.
Established 1869. FUNDS EXCEED £40,000,000.
Ask for a representative to call and explain how the National Mutual can help you.
Tshe.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA, LTD.
Offices:
N.S.W.: 350 George Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA: 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements .
The Bulletin
On the Bullock Wagon Again
Vol. 57. —No. 2963.
Wednesday, November 25, 1936.
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, -Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney. '
m
fiJwl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIE
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, os
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 336
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as" the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature. , .. ... ,
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible tor
the third year’s competition lor this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the success! ul
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees. ., ,
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. • Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out ot
the contest. The trustees, whose address is -5- George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount ot the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
“CROWDED
CANVASES ”
I have just read
(R.P. 21/10/’36)
Denton Front's
valuable response
to my theory
concerning our crowded canvases in
fiction. He hits his nail on the head in
contending that writers here “just can’t
accept the Australian scene as natural.”
What surprises us sometimes is how
Jong and slow is the process of making
it natural. Our material will have to be
worked and reworked until it becomes
pliant, and so familiar to the English-
speaking peoples that writers overseas
can passably set a novel in the Aus-
tralian scene without ever being here,
as has been done the other way about.
1 should, however, like to say that
this was not my nail. Mine was that a
large number of our fictionists have
succeeded in our uncharted fields by
presenting what approximates to the
whole community. Since I wrote that,
1 have read another acclaimed Austra-
lian novel, Inheritors, which also be-
longs to the crowded-canvas school.
The present Bulletin serial, “I Sold My
Horses,” likewise promises to be of this
genre. One plunges into this story with
enjoyment and confidence because the
very first paragraph guarantees that the
writer knows his scene and material. I
heard some keen young readers praising
it for its “nice lot of characters”- —mean-
ing numerous. One remarked, “That’s
the way it is up the country. Every-
body knows everybody else.”
MILES FRANKLIN.
More
Australian
Authors
Writers con-
trary to popular
loose thinking-
are realists. They
need certain quali-
ties and a certain
background for
their work. And if these are not to be
had in Australia they go abroad for
them. They must eat and drink and
marry like other mortals; if they cannot
live here they go somewhere where they
can gain a living by the craft of their
choice. So Australia loses its authors ;
look at them: Phil Lindsay, Jack Lind-
say, Dale Collins, Helen Simpsoffi Jack
McLaren, Mary Mitchell, Christina
Stead and many others ; and of the older
school such august names as Professor
Gilbert Murray and Henry Handel
Richardson. It is pitiable for Australia
that such a school of writers should be
lost to it. And completely lost! True,
The Fortunes of Richard Mahony is
partly Australian. But the atmosphere is
not Australian: it is Continental. Aus-
tralia may have many drawbacks, but
morbidity is not one of them.
An Australian author in London is
beseeched by his publisher not to use
an Australian locale: “My dear fellow,
it just won’t sell!” So expatriate Aus-
tralians write of Ruritania and Rome
and South Sea islands, neglecting their
most valuable literary material.
Another matter that escapes mpst.
people is the publicity value of the writer.
Inestimable prestige has been given
Britain by her poets and dramatists ; even
in our day the publicity value of G. B.
Shaw, Kipling, Wells, Galsworthy must
be immense. Who can measure the
value of Emerson, Bret Harte, Edgar
Allen Poe, Mark Twain, O. Henry to
U.S.A.? Australia is represented by the
tragic figure of Henry Lawson.
Mr. Scullin recently suggested that
Australian literature should be en-
couraged and helped by the Com-
monwealth. 1 wonder does he—or any
other member of Parliament —realise
that an Australian writer of great inter-
national importance would do more to
make Australia known than thousands
spent on publicity. Writers are men of
ability; every writer lost represents so
much brain power lost by Australia. Also
every writer more or less exiled for
economic reasons from Australia is a
source of danger to Australia. Writers
are people able to express themselves,
and in England 1 have heard more viru-
lent abuse of Australia from Australian
writers than I would have believed.
Perhaps that is why, overseas, Aus-
tralia is regarded as a continent of in-
credible dullness. Recently in London
1 read a review by Hugh de Selincourt
of Idriess’s Lasseter’s Last Ride. De
Selincourt is a sensitive and sincere critic
of the front rank, yet quite gratuitously
he stated that English novels were sold
in Australia at less than half price, and
even then found practically no buyers!
He went on to wonder at the number
of editions Lasseter’s Last Ride had gone
to in Australia ; he suggested the number
of copies in each edition must have been
very limited and the price excessively
low. The whole implication of his re-
view was that Australians were an un-
lettered people. I could quote a dozen
similar instances. Australians are not
an unlettered people ; they have vitality,
vigor of mind and a natural enthusiasm
for art lacking in older countries.
But they are unled. They have no
writers big enough to give expression to
Australian character. Nor will they have
until it is made possible for writers of
originality and outstanding ability to
remain in Australia.
F. RHODES FARMER
Writers on
Syndicating
If sy n dicated
stories, ar t icles
and strips were
taxed as suggested
by F. D. Davison
(R.P. 11/11 /’36> it is doubtful if the
Australian writer would benefit, because
the Australian writer is a considerable
fool.
The Quota Acts were intended to
assist Australian actors and writers, and
they ,have assisted only a parcel of finan-
ciers, Recently I was rung up by the
representative of a film company and
told that the company was interested in
the film rights of my latest book. As I
was unable to pay the fare to the city, the
rep. decided to call on me at my bush
shanty. He and another arrived in a
super-car. I was informed of the tre-
mendous advertisement my book would
get by being filmed ; the “usual figure”
was £5O.
Is a paltry 50 quid— plus glory and a
shirt front on the opening night—what
our filmed authors have accepted? Do
the film actors work for glory and a
quid a week? Australian pictures take
at the box offices from £20,000 to
£50,000.
Here’s another dig. The usual read-
ing fee per session for broadcasting a
novel is 10s. 6d., which amounts to from
£lO 10s. to £l3 2s. 6d., according to the
number of weeks. Australian novelists
have even offered the reading rights in
their masterpieces for £5 and £2 10s.
May their souls shrivel if they read this.
If syndicated matter is barred or
heavily taxed, it will not stop scab-
bing by Australian writers. Literature,
like everything,' thrives best on competi-
tion. Our masters of literature should
give a lead in educating their fellows to
determine to starve to death before cut-
ting established rates. It should be
pointed out that glory is without value,
and that the writer who is too superior
to write for money is a mere sucker.
Film rights should be paid for on a
royalty basis—say two per cent, of the
box-office receipts. Prices for all rights
in literary productions should be gov-
erned by a Commonwealth Court. Any
writer who gives his work for nothing
should be hanged; any writer who
attempts to cut ruling rates should be
publicly slowly choked to death. Any
editor or film magnate who offers glory
in lieu of cash—and gets away with it—
should be knighted.
ARTHUR W. UPHELD.
If you corner a syndicating editor, he
looks plausibly pathetic: “But 1 can’t
get the fiction of the quality my sub-
scribers demand. You Australian writers
can’t do it.”
That’s bosh. He doesn't try to get it.
George Robertson told me nine years
ago that there wasn't such a possibility
as a good Australian novel, or even a
publishable saleable one. Within two
years of that S. H. Prior got nearly
550 entries for his first Bulletin novel
competition, a fair number of which
were subsequently published in book
form here or in London. You can get
anything out of the Australian writer, as
every Bulletin editor has proved. But
it can’t' be done by hiding behind some
London editor’s “reading” for a cheap
and easy, ready-made circulation.
A fingerpost, as evidence that some
body wants Australian work, is The Aus-
tralian Authors and Artists’ Handbook
(3s. 2d. posted), just out in its 1937 issue.
Edited by Richard Geraint and W, E.
Fitz Henry, who have made a fine, clear
cut job of their guide away from syndi-
cation, it lists every paper in Australia
that prints our work, with special notes
as to press-day, type of matter, length,
date and amount of payment. That is
cash-practicality, the thing at which we
are stupidest. Even to an old hand it is
astonishing to find how many non-syn-
dicating markets there still are—one gets
quite a glow of confidence again. In-
formative lists: publishers, literary
agents, literary societies, reference books
and so on; hints, tips and solid infor-
mation of all kinds for story writers,
novelists, film writers, dramatists, radio
writers, verse writers, artists, journalists,
photographers and song-writers—there
is really nothing about our job that it
doesn’t touch on.
The How-to-do-it articles all take the
productive angle of acceptance, of sell-
ing quality: J. J. Hardie is definite and
downright on “The Novel,” R. G.
Campbell thorough and comprehensive
on “Serial Fiction,” Francis Brien brief
and to the point on “Article Writing.”
Fitz Henry’s paper on “Paragraph Writ-
ing” is a condensed textbook, and
Richard Geraint’s “Common Causes of
Rejection” a careful essay in the tech-
nique of dodging disappointment. The
article on “The Short Story Craft” is the
fruit of 20 years’ experience, and Elliott
Napier’s terse pungent note on “Libel”
is as firm and valuable as the Hon. J. H.
Keating's scholarly exposition of “The
Law of Copyright.” Freelances in any
department of the craft will find it a
capital investment'.
In all that it is a practical fingerpost
away from syndication. It is more than
that. It shows us a hundred chances
of giving the baker a bit on account.
Altogether it helps to undermine the in-
feriority from which many, with reason,
suffer.
Hilary Lofting.
What Is a
Book?
None of the
con tributors to
What Is a Book ?
(Allen and
Unwin, 7s. 6d.)
makes any attempt to answer this pre-
posterous question. The couple of dozen
of them write—a few most interestingly
—on book-writing.
Contributors are about 50-50 men and
women. Some of the men are nothing
wonderful; the ladies, almost without ex-
ception, are gushful, tittering or simply
empty ; remarkable considering how well
they write what they here try to write
about the writing of —books. On the other
hand, several of the men are first-rate,
notably Sabatini on “Historical Fiction,”
E. J. O’Brien on “Short Stories,” Archi-
bald MacLeish on “Poetry,” Harold
Nicolson on “Biography”-and Valentine
Williams on “Crime Fiction.”
Sabatini is particularly to the point,
mainly on (he way legend is dished u.p.
as history. He instances William Tell,
who shoulders his crossbow on Swiss
stamps, who is immortalised in statues,
chapels and the like throughout the land,
whose coat-of-arms i$ reproduced in de-
tail, and every important fact of whose
life is familiarly known —fabrication,
legend, the lot of it. It is not a question
of whether or not William has reality in
the literary sense of the word ; of course
he has—much more so than most actual
historical figures. Sabatini’s point is that
he, and much else like him, is continu-
ously dished up as history by “histori-
cal” fictioneers too lazy or incompetent
to do their own investigating. Another
of his instances is the Man in the Iron
Mask, whose mask, in fact, was velvet,
the legend arising from a steel spring or
two used to keep it in place, there being
no elastic in those days.
Many “historical” fictioneers claim
privilege to take liberties with historical
truth. Sabatini admits the validity of
none of their grounds. He allows, of
course, the right to people the historical
scene with “purely imaginary” charac-
ters, and shows how he himself has done
this (in Scaramouche, for example), but
even here he rightly insists that such
characters must belong naturally to their
particular historical settings. As for tak-
ing actual historical characters and dis-
torting them— which is the commoner
practice—Sabatini would call “charla-
tan” a weak sort of word.
Havelock Ellis, getting more vigorous
as he gets older, turns in some solid
thinking on these lines: —
There seems to be no more pronounced
mark of the decadence of a people and its
literature than a servile and rigid subser-
viency to rules. It can only make for
ossification, for anchylosis, for petrification,
all the milestones on the road to death.
In every age of democratic plebeianism.
where each man thinks he is as good a
writer as the others,- and takes his laws
from the others, having no laws of his own
nature, it is down this steep path that men,
in a flock, inevitably run.
Nicolson’s excellent' biography-writ-
ing contribution has points in it that
even biographers of some experience
might fipd helpful, ampng them a warn-
ing against putting the head in the noose
of obligation to anyone whatever, and
the subject’s relations especially, when
gathering material. In writing his Tenny-
son he declined the use of much entirely
new material, because it would have
caused him to feel obliged to the poet’s
relations to let their forebear down
lightly.
Williams, on “Crime Fiction,” men-
tions. that women are becoming increas-
ingly addicted to this sort of fare ; men-
tions also a “Detective Club” of London,
candidates for admission to which are
(i Continued on page 4.)


a
%
%
T'T''
&
7
K
m
i
i •
a
5 $
mm
:...?& v<.
I
1
I
$
d
m
'■:■■-■'
56
£' &
‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—always.
‘THE SENIOR STORE:
MERCERY THAT IS SMART
• GOLF SHIRTS
If he were choosing a Shirt for
himself this is the kind he
would select. “Hordura” Regd.
Golf Shirt, V-cased front, two
matching collars. Latest striped
effects in Blue or Grey. Sizes
Min. to 18in. neck.
At Anthony Horderns’ . . 10/6
/tom
‘ARAJAMAS.”
He will have many months of sleeping comfort if you give
him a suit of “Arajamas.” Fancy designs in British
Replin. Step-back collar. Blue and Grey designs..
At Anthony Horderns’ 15/6
• ART. SIK SPORTS SHIRT.
Men who play tennis or cricket will be glad to receive one
of. these well-made Sports Shirts. Made of Art. Silk, with
a dull finish. Cream shade. Sizes 14+in. to 17in. collar.
At Anthony Horderns’ 8/11
• LEATHER BELT.
A welcome and useful gift! One-inch Leather
Belts. Patent Buckle in Brown or Grey Suede
leather. At Anthony Horderns’ 2/6
Others 3/6 and 4/11
Also with tongue buckle 2/6
a*
1
/
•a
/
2e
• BRACE and
GARTER SET.
He always needs these! Give him a set this
Christmas. Brace and Garter Sets. Reliable
Webs with Suede Ends. Price 4/6
Others 3/6, 5/6, 6/6
IN NEW DESIGNS AND COLOURS.
j
\
i
m
5S
A
• A—“RISISTA-CREASE” TIES AT
For newest popular patterns, longest possible
wear and lowest possible price, we recom-
mend these Ties. Checks, stripes, figured
and overcheck effects in Blue, Grey and
Brown tonings. At Anthony Horderns’, 2/1 !.
• B—SILK WEAVE BROAD-ENDS AT
Excellent quality and a fine range. All Silk
Weaves, Silk and Wools; also All Wool and
Poplin in almost every possible colour and
design. At Anthony Horderns’ 4/3
£ Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN
and Sons, Limited
Sydney
famous for low prices
■/jrr
i2xtr
/? \
/ "
\
73
OZ
• “PYRAMID”
HANKS.
A gift that is meant expressly for him. Hand-
kerchiefs with Assorted Coloured Borders.
Price, each /• 1/3
Price, half dozen .... 7/3
I I
OX OF
• IRISH LAWN HANKS.
A gift that is always .useful. Coloured-border
Handkerchiefs in Irish Lawn. Three in box.
Price, I/I 1. Others .... 3/6, 4/6 and 5/9
Why not use the
Deposit Purchase System?
hr
j
i
Ml
*Y
AC H
• INITIALLED HANKS.
Men’s Initial Handkerchiefs with hemstitched
borders. In White Irish Linen. Price, ea., 1/11.
In White Irish Lawn. Price 1/-
26
I
• GOLD-PLATED
LINKS.
A small gift, but it is something he will
appreciate. Gold-plated Cuff Links.
Price, pair 2/6


required to swear a solemn oath that in
their stories they will make no use of
“poisons unknown to science, death rays,
bands of Chinamen, or the Act of
God.”
One of the book’s most remarkable
statements —though it may be under-
standable enough to any who read short
stories consistently—is E. J. O’Brien’s:
“In a magazine called ‘New Stories,’
which I am editing in conjunction with
five English authors, we have had to
agree to set up a higher standard for
judging the American short story, or we
should have no space left to print any
English stories.” O’Brien says also that
150 volumes of short stories worthy of
an intelligent reader are published in
America every year. Three a week—it
sounds absurd.
MacLeish’s solid thinking on poetry
cannot be well indicated by bits; but
this is, at least, the sound of it:
The difficulty is obviously to make people
understand that a poem is, in no mystical
manner of speaking, a sensuous object,
as real, as sensible as the bronze inkwell
there on the desk. So many authoritative
names are connected with the misuse of
poetry lor mere communication, mere
expression, so many elderly Wordsworths
exhibit their moral excellence in the an-
thologies, that it is all but impossible to
come at the question at all. And the ques-
tion is obviously one of form. So long as
people talk about form in poetry as
though it were a matter solely of metre,
or metre and rhythm, or metre and rhythm
and rhyme—as though, for instance, a
sonnet were a “form” —just so long form
and content in poetry will be different and
separate things, and poems will be dis-
cussed as though they were means of com-
municating elevated thoughts, and earnest
young men will get perennially excited over
the possibility of writing a first-rate poem
in couplets—a question of' no importance
to anyone but the technicians and, at this
date, of little enough importance to them.
The going is enlivened by snippet com-
ments by a host of writers, including
Sinclair Lewis (“Writing is dirty work”),
Belloc (“I hate my trade”), Cabell (“There
is, in brief, no more dreadful reading for
any honest writer than he must find in
his own books after a while”), George
Moore (“It is incredible the trouble I
have to take to produce even a passable
sentence that other men write unthink-
ingly”), Lord Dunsany (“I think I owe
most of my style to the reports of pro-
ceedings in the divorce court”), and
Mencken (“The impulse to create beauty
is rather rare in literary men”).
The Pioneer
of Poker Flat
This year we
should probably
be celebrating the
centenary of the
birth of Bret
Harte. The doubt is due to the fact that
there is some uncertainty as to what year
Harte was born in. It may have been
1836, 1837 or 1839; 1836 is the year
favored by the Harte family.
However, there is no doubt whatever
that Harte was born about 100 years ago
and created “The Poker Flat School” of
literature. Hundreds of authors and a
large number of picture people have
reason to be grateful to him, for in some
sense he was also the pioneer of the Wild
West in fiction. Even song-writers, of
the “boots - and - saddle - wheel - of - the-
wagon” school owe much to Bret Harte,
for it was he who gave the original
romantic twist to the lives of folk who
dwell in lands of apparent discontent
beyond the horizon.
Harte belonged to a family who were
among the first settlers in America.
Three-quarters of him was English and
one-quarter Dutch. The Bret part of
him came through his paternal grand-
mother, a descendant of the first Lord
Esher. Harte himself was born in the
State of New York, and, though in the
final phase of his life he was hobnobbing
with the noblesse in England and living
at 74 Lancaster Gate, he never ceased to
be a patriotic American.
It was almost by accident that Harte
crossed the ’49 frontier and wandered
into a land of uncouth miners with hearts
of gold and gamblers with a fine sense
of humor, for he was born into a home
of culture. He read Shakspeare at six.
His father was a Greek scholar, his
mother a literary critic. So he was in no
sense a self-made man. But a new twist
was given to his life by the death of his
father and the remarriage of his mother.
It was to join her in California in 1852
that Harte first went west.
Thence he went in search of gold, and
found it —not with his pick, but with his
pen. On the diggings, in the roaring
’fifties, cast amongst somewhat boister-
ous social conditions, he discovered his
true vocation. Not very successful as a
goldminer, he subsequently took a job
as messenger on the Wells-Fargo ex-
press ; the sort of life that most boys
dream about. His duty was to protect
from attack the gold carried from the
camps to San Francisco, and often he
was sole guardian.
Altogether his life in and about the
diggings lasted less than 12 months. From
the diggings he went to San Francisco
and became a journalist on the “Golden
Era,” to which he contributed his earliest
stories. He was 32 when “The Luck of
Roaring Camp” brought him immediate
fame throughout the English-speaking
world, and even drew a letter of admira-
tion from Dickens, who invited him to
London to join “All the Year Round.”
Dickens, however, died very shortly after-
wards, and in any event Harte’s star
was in the ascendant.
Apart from literature Harte always
managed to function against a substantial
background. At one time he was Pro-
fessor of Literature at California Univer-
sity, and later U.S. Consul on the Rhine
and in Glasgow. Then he took up resi-
dence in London, and moved in the most
select circles of English society. He died
at Camberley, in Surrey, in May, 1902,
while sitting at his desk, working on a
story many times corrected but never
finished.
The best of Bret Harte is undoubtedly
very good, but his second-best is like the
curate’s egg, and he probably had even
a third-best, for he wrote many pot-
boilers. Still, he had descriptive powers
of a high order, and he had the sort of
dramatic instinct which guides to the
essentials of any given situation. He
also had a genuine sense of humor, and
though he could often be eloquent in
reticence he could also be moving in
pathos: there is no doubt that “The
Outcasts of Poker Flat” is one of the most
movingly pathetic things ever written.
There is no doubt also that Harte labored
considerably under the influence of
Dickens. But he had a tendency to over-
stress situations, and he achieved a lot
of his effects by the simple expedient of
startling incongruity. The prostitute
would die in the arms of a virgin, good-
ness would spring up in the most un-
expected quarters, and the right things
would happen to the right people at the
precisely right moment. However, he did
pioneer the country where men were
men, and where sentiment was easily
touched.
Was this romantic life he depicted
really a dream? Were the people at
Poker Flat, Red Gulch and Roaring
Camp anything like the characters he
portrayed? They must have had some
basis in fact, for he obviously did not
conjure them up out of the void. More-
over, he never did anything quite so good
as his first group of stories, written while
these impressions were strong upon him.
Again, not one of his characters is
absurdly improbable: in their better
moments they are all no more than the
men they might have been. They all
work out their personalities, more or less
convincingly, both in speech and deed,
though often the situation in which they
are cast is idealised. Harte dealt charit-
ably with his characters because he por-
trayed the essential goodness that shines
out even in the most tarnished specimens
of humanity.
As a master of condensed and rapid
narration he left the art of the short
story in better condition than that in
which he had found it. He wrote grace-
fully, in a style which has since had many
imitators. He was also a minor poet,
and, though he produced no epics, some
of his short poems deserve to live. As
a parodist he was exceedingly clever, and
altogether he left the literary world under
some obligation to remember him.
G.A. DILLON.
Earlier
Maoriland
Early Days in
Central Otago,
by Robert Gilki-
son (Whitcombe
and Tombs; 6s.
6d.), is now in a second (enlarged)
edition. Gilkison, who hails from Glas-
gow, is a retired lawyer, with all the legal
Scot’s love of curious anecdote. He spent
most of his life in the mining township
of Clyde, played a part in the develop-
ment of gold-dredging, and knew every-
body worth knowing in Otago from the
’eighties onward. His yarns deal with
the wild life of the goldfields, coaching
adventures and mighty floods.
Such adverse characters as Bully
Hayes, Garrett the bushranger, Rich-
mond Beetham (who became Christ-
church’s best-loved magistrate), Judge
Gresson and Captain Jackson Barry flit
through these pages, and there’s an in-
triguing reference to The Bulletin’s
David McKee Wright. Before he be-
came a clergyman David played many
parts. While, trapping rabbits in C.O.
he earned fame by an archaeological dis-
covery of the first importance—he came
upon a many-hundred-years-old hand-
bag that had belonged to a Maori lady
and contained a full set of the materials,
dyes and whatnot used in the domestic
crafts by Maori women soon after the
arrival from Hawaiki.
A.D.W.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
ROUGHLEY ON THE REEF
Wonders of the Great Barrier Reef,
by T. C. Roughley (Angus and Robert-
son ; 12s. 6d.), is illustrated with 50
plates, of which 35 are reproductions
of natural-color photographs. They are
excellent. The book is both a field
naturalist’s handbook and fascinating
general reading.
“We Journey to the Reef” is the title
of the first chapter, and it strikes the
friendly style of the story, in which the
author imagines himself accompanied by
the reader, to whom he explains the
wonders of reef, sea and coral isle. The
reader is privileged, for Roughley knows
the reef, its genesis and growth, the in-
habitants of its waters and the flora and
fauna of its cays and atolls. He begins
by explaining the nature of coral, its
beauty and rich variety and the natural
processes by which reef islands come
into being; then he passes on to describe
the appearance and habits of the many
forms of life that inhabit reef waters.
As he takes each one —fish, crustacean,
shell, anemone —he imparts a sense of its
strangeness or beauty, and tells of it in
the act of living.
If we rest quietly beside a coral pool
we may, if we are lucky, catch a glimpse
of the most ornate of all coral fishes, the
butterfly cod. Its body is covered with
vertical scarlet stripes of irregular width on
a creamy ground; its fins open like fans
richly decorated. It is never in a hurry; it
moves slowly about with quiet dignity
reminiscent of a peacock.
If what he describes has economic
value, he knows its exact uses and often
the method of preparation, and if it has
a place in history or mythology he knows
that too.
At times, particularly after heavy seas, a
small crab which is strictly not an inhabi-
tant of the reef at all may be found
washed up on the beach. It is known as
the wanderer crab because of its habit of
attaching itself to pieces of. seaweed and
wood which carry it about the ocean at the
mercy of wind and current. This is the
crab that Columbus found in the Sargasso
Sea, and it served to convince his sailors
that land was near at hand, which, of
course, was not necessarily the case.
He tells of fish that kill game by spit-
ting at it, of others that climb mangrove
roots, breathe air and actually will drown
if held under water, of crabs that feign
death and look exactly like the pebbles
among which they live, and fish that live
inside other fish, coming and going at
will. Among the adventures extraordi-
nary are his experiences when stranded
alone on a reef in a rising tide, the spec-
tacle of a fight between whales and the
thrill of travelling through reef waters
at night. There is an interlude in which
he describes a happy contact he made
with two black children, and another in
which he describes the delights—and big
catches—of line fishing in reef waters.
Then he goes on to deal with the court-
ing and nesting habits of the different
varieties of terns, the mutton-birds and
the hunting habits of some of the larger
species.
As conservationist, he deplores the un-
restrained slaughter of certain species of
birds and sea animals. As a develop-
mentalist he describes the existing
methods of exploiting the wealth of the
reef —pearl, trochus and beche-de-mer
gathering—and indicates other possible
means, always, of course, with safe-
guards against upsetting the balance of
nature. The plates referred to are a
marked advance on any previous at-
tempt to convey the rich colors of the
corals and their associated life forms.
The book, altogether, is a notable addi-
tion to Australiana.
* * * *
THE WOMAN ON THE BULL
Euro pa, by Robert Briffault (Robert
Hale, Ltd.; Bs. 6d.), is one of the most
remarkable novels that have appeared
for a long while. The author has earned
distinction as a philosopher of history;
this, his first venture into fiction, em-
bodies his view of European history
from the late ’nineties until the outbreak
of the 1914 war. The author changes
the customary order of the novel in
that, while the principal character, Julian
Bern, is usually on the stage, he does not
really occupy the centre; that is re-
served for the events, personages and
discussions that reflect the condition of
Europe and so affect his life.
Bern might be any educated man with
idealistic outlook and a liking for root-
ing below the surface of things. The
book, sub-titled “A novel of the days of
ignorance,” begins with his boyhood, and
for a time seems to confuse the ignorance
of the lad with the alleged ignorance of
the times. There is evident resentment
against British educational methods, par-
ticularly in regard to matters relating to
sex and religion.
It is evident that Briffault is a man
of wide scholarship and a close student
of affairs. Most of his youth was spent
on the Continent, where he had oppor-
tunity of meeting leading titled and poli-
tical figures. He grants Bern the same
opportunities, and through his experi-
ences builds up the European panorama.
The atmosphere of the story, according
as Bern frequents different circles, is one
of erudite discussion of science, philo-
sophy, art, metaphysics ; or, socially, one
of extravagant luxury and excess. The
setting is chiefly in the Riviera, but
through the conversations and dis-
closures of the characters it moves into
most of the capitals, revealing the social
conditions of each from top to bottom,
and, if the author is correct, the deca-
dence of their rulers. Through the pages,
in addition to princes, diplomats, finan-
ciers and their pleasure-seeking women-
folk, pass such well-known figures as the
Kaiser, Rosa Luxemburg, Henry James,
Rasputin, the earlier Mussolini, Anna
Pavlova, Karl Liebknecht, the Tsarina,
Zinovieff and others under thin aliases.
The slender story on which it is all
built is Bern’s search for sincerity and
straight-thinking in a world frolicking
toward a cataclysm, and his love for
Princess Zena, frustrated at first and con-
summated just as Europe plunges into
war. Notwithstanding the heavy load
that is put on the narrative, the book has
shape and movement; all that is dealt
with is relevant to the life of Julian Bern
—just as it was to that of any man of
his period. The general reader of fic-
tion may think Briffault has mixed a
pretty stiff pudding; but he has done it
with skill, characters, scenes and ideas
are all sharply realised, and, considering
that he has told not so much the story
of an individual as that of a continent,
he has handled his subject matter with
marked economy.
* * * *
ESCAPE INTO LOVE
It is a pity that R. G. Goodyear,
author of The Myrtle Tree (Boriswood,
Ltd., 7s. 6d.), is not content to round
off his novel as such instead of lapsing
into explanation. It seems to be a case
in which sincerity of intention over-
reaches itself; the schoolmaster rises up
in the last few pages and floors the
worthy artist with a knockout punch.
Even from the didactic viewpoint it is
quite unnecessary, for the idea the author
wishes to communicate comes through
clearly in the course of the dramatic
action.
The theme is the loneliness of the ego
and how each tries to escape from isola-
tion by way of love for another. The
author deals with several kinds of love,
including the outlawed. His method is
fresh; there is not a continuous story,
but a series of short, sharply drawn vig-
nettes that exercise the reader’s mind for
a little while as to their exact relevancy,
and then, as the book progresses, fall
into place and form a pattern. It is
possible that the method ekes out a
talent that' is merely expositional and
not really creative, but it is artistically
done, and the writer brings to it a broad
sympathy with life, an eye for the main
points of character and a notable flair
for the descriptive phrase. Benny, the
self-lover, the Narcissus of the book,
tires of carrying some flowers and flings
them over a cliff.
He leaned over to watch them fall, like
slow rocket stars, to the white sand below.
With one suave bright movement a wave
reached them and swept them away.
Benny tries to fall in love with Lily
but can’t; he is too much under obser-
vation to himself. Paradoxically, his
only escape from himself is when he is
standing in front' of his mirror. His de-
fection brings heartbreak to Lily. Each
evening she looks at the mantelpiece
where there would be a letter from Benny
if one had come. Her mother, Mum
Trope, whose lot is alleviated by her
love for the frail daughter, directs her
thoughts at the All Powerful and utters
one of the book’s two remarkable and
sincere prayers: “Can’t you let her have
her letter, blarst you!”
Jenny is a young woman whose hus-
band after a year or two of happy mar-
ried life wants an affair with another
woman, although he wants Jenny, too.
Elizabeth, for whom Mum Trope does
a daily char, is a girl who wants Paul
temporarily, while Jenny wants him to
keep, and is willing to pay the price.
They each get what they are after. Eliza-
beth’s escape from herself, strangely
enough, is in her tenderness for Jerry
Flower, her decadent father, whom she
has to support. Charles, a product of
luxury, cultivates the friendship of
Benny, and at length leaves for Italy,
genuinely sore at heart because Benny
declines to accompany him. There are


<4*
iM
?
L
r*
/
yt
up
a
v.
%
J
A
l
'• '■■■•:■
mm
wm i
il
B
,
■
■£****
m
E • w.
\
%
in
11.
For
Carbon -free
Lubrication
Qlruwqsi to
TEXACO
MOTOR OIL
I 10.FP6
THE TEXAS COMPANY IS THE WORLD’S LARGEST INDEPENDENT OIL ORGANISATION
several others, of whom one is Lucy,
Elizabeth’s aunt, a cripple and a saint.
Her escape is in the love of doing right,
and, incidentally, she, is the least con-
vincing. Mum Trope is the most rugged ;
in the end she strikes a grim bargain with
fate. They all are shown only in the
flat—in their relationship to love —but
in that they are firmly delineated. Jenny
is employed in a psychiatric clinic, an
institution the author finds useful. It is
here, in using a doctor as a mouthpiece,
that he contrives an inartistic ending
which damages —though it cannot destroy
—a lot of good work that precedes it.
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Fiction: Europe, Robert Briffault
(Robert Hale); Gunnar’s Daughter,
Sigrid Undset (Cassell); No Retreat, D. J.
Hall (Harrap); The Brothers Ashkenazi,
I. L Singer (Putnam); An Ordinary Life,
Karel Capek (Allen and Unwin); Tare
Harvest, Eleanor Peters (Cape). General:
Wonders of the Great Barrier Reef, T. C.
Roughley (Angus and Robertson); Sen-
tenced to Adventure, Serge Zolo
(Harrap) ; Rip Tide in the South Seas,
Willard Price (Heinemann); Stone Age
Bushmen of To-day, J. R. B. Love
(Blackie).
F.D.D.
Reviewed Briefly.
YOUNGSTERS’ FARE
Riders of the Sky: Harry Harper
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d.). Chapters on the great fliers—
Smithy, Lindbergh, “Jean,” “Amy,” Mol-
lison, Mannock, Bleriot, the Wrights,
Hinkler and the rest of them —with,
threaded through, an outline story of
the heroic side of flying. Some might
find the author’s manner a bit noisy, but
the book can be recommended as capital
adventure reading for youth.
A Story Book for Boys and Girls:
selected by Guy Pocock (Dent’s Every-
man’s Library; 2s. net). And a first-rate
selection it is, with many of the better-
known children’s writers represented, but
also a lot of most unexpected names. As
sound on the literary as on the enter-
tainment side.
The Dog with a Bad Name: K. D.
Nason (Country Life; 7s. 6d. net).
Charming, and off the beaten track, the
dog a boy’s hunting companion in
Africa, with jungle, leopards, reptiles
and strange birds adding to the color and
excitements. Well-written, too, with en-
gaging humor, and nicely illustrated.
„ ; , rr n t-i i A , .
Pamela and Her Pony Flash : Antonio
Fachin (Country Life ; 10s. 6d.). Ran in
abridged form through London “Daily
Mail” as a serial for boys and girls,
Throughout its light narrative of a child's
learning to ride, handle and care for a
horse till he and she are fit for Olympia
is the soundest of horse lore. Illustra-
tions are chiefly pleasant photos, of Eng-
lish children’s riding-school incidents.
FICTION . . .
All This Is Ended: A. W. Wells (Mel-
rose ; 7s. 6d.). Short stories with Afri-
can, English and Balkan settings by a
South African writer. Lushly written
and highly colored. Even so two of
em have been included in O’Brien’s
est Short Stories of the Year.
rFNFRAI
xr . ' ' ' .
Native Education and Culture Con-
Guinea .' William C. Groves
(Melb. Uni. Press; 65.). A stout bro-
chure by one who has been a teacher
and research worker in New Guinea.
He severely criticises the prevailing edu-
cational system, makes logical and human
suggestions, and generally does a needed
job competently and courageously.
Mostly publications of the Australian
Council for Educational Research are to
the layman as dry as a thirst on the
Nullarbor; this one, brightly written,
has considerable “general-reader” in-
terest.


ROYAL
PURPLE
P ARA
ml
fm
w% fli
■
mm
m
mm
m
m
& I
jga|
m
. „.
a
ipip
§«l
*
■
MEBn
: '
m
m m
V-*
■i
HSR
■
:
HHI
-
wßaigßißi
sa
B
■
m
■
mmm
m
m
ms .
mm
• **
:
M
:
mm
m
m
m
m
- 1 i
m
m
mm
mm
W*s
Si
.
B
MR
From this Small Beginning in 1851 Stocks now exceed 4\ million gallons.
,/fffbit c Mne cfiMe mellotimeumullmiq/uet


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2963.
November 25, 1936.
IMPREGNABLE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE THREE-POWER PACT.
Germany and Japan have arrived at an agreement for
mutual defence against “Russian Communism,” and
Italy has become a party to it. British newspapers
which proved false guides during the Abyssinian busi-
ness positively assure* the people they then misled
that the arrangement is of no consequence. This is
nonsense. Formal alliance or not, it is important,
nor is it at all welcome to British countries, although
no direct threat to them.
It was inevitable that the universal intrigues
of the Russian Reds would bait nations most exposed
to them into implacable hostility, and bring about
combinations such as these three Powers have formed,
and civil wars such as Spain is enduring. Steadygoing
people everywhere feel that world revolution is not only
a cruel and cowardly but an unscientific policy, and
that the belief cherished by Reds that the doctrines of
a man without a country who never did a tap of work
in his life could be imposed on people of all races,
to the utter overthrow of systems and institutions
centuries old and churches which have lasted for
thousands of years, is the most dangerous and damn-
able superstition that has ever taken possession of
the human mind. World revolution by force exerted
by the Red Army has been ostentatiously abandoned
because of the greater hostile forces it has begotten.
World revolution by white-anting has been substituted,
and the'League has been used to promote it.
“He who sups with the devil should use a long
spoon.” It was a favorite remark of Joseph Cham-
berlain’s, but Mr. Anthony Eden does not seem to
have heard of it. Mr. Anthony Eden went to Moscow,
supped with the Red devil, and used a short spoon.
He recrossed the steppes of Muscovy elated with his
“diplomatic success.” Forthwith the outlaw republic
was “reintroduced into the comity of nations” —
admitted to the League, with a seat on the Council, in
which cunning Mr. Litvinoff was installed.
One result of this manoeuvre was to inflame
Germany and Japan against the League. Another
was an alarming increase of the Communist party in
France. That country is now such a prey to faction
that the stay-in strikes which convulsed it for months
have been succeeded by free fights in the Chamber
of Deputies, scenes of violence which even the swear-
ing of a truce at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier
was powerless to prevent. And last week the Minister
of the Interior destroyed himself, hounded to death
by political enemies who accused him of having
deserted to the enemy during the war. France’s
predominant position on the Continent has gone
for ever.
And the Red Russians’ arrival at Geneva has
led to an unbroken succession of reverses for
'British foreign policy as impersonated by Mr. Eden.
Egged on by Mr. Litvinoff, Mr. Eden nearly dragged
the Empire into war with Italy to keep Haile Silassie
on the tottering throne of the world’s last slave State.
While the situation was critical, Australia sent two
of its three cruisers into the Mediterranean, but
Russia did not move a ship, a man or a gun. One
of the current allegations in the newspapers which
now tell us there is nothing in this Three-Power Pact
was that, if it came to war, Spain would fight for
“collective security.” How much truth there was
in this yarn the same newspapers have since demon-
strated.
Since “sanctions” failed, Belgium and Portugal,
which in other days scarcely dared to breathe without
British permission, have changed their foreign policies
without reference to London, and the Arabs in Pales-
tine and Iraq have turned against us. All Britain has
gained as offsets to these losses and to the departure
from the British orbit of nations that were firm
friends and allies is a little more influence in Turkey,
bought with the restoration of the privilege of forti-
fying Gallipoli and closing the Dardanelles, and a
little more Russian trade, bought with a £10,000,000
guarantee and a recrudescence of Communist propa-
ganda in arrogant forms.
Whatever British editors may write, it is impos-
sible for Australians to contemplate the Three-Power
Pact and feel blithe about it. If there is a spark of
wisdom at Canberra at all, the Government will take
it as a warning to drop its silly quarrel with the
republic with which Australia should always be on
friendly terms, and restore the relations which existed
before May 22. Mr. Gullett admitted the other day
in reply to a question that the restrictions on U.S.
trade were imposed as a result of “a negative reply”
to an inquiry made in March, 1936, “as to the willing-
ness of the Government of the U.S.A. to enter into
negotiations.” How could he expect any other answer
when the Presidential and Congressional elections
were due on November 4?
On the Bullock Wagon Again.
The longer the Commonwealth Government dallies
with the overseas air-mail question the more
ridiculous it appears. Even the hitherto-faithful
“S. M. Herald” is exasperated with the Government’s
“querulous hesitation,” its “ignorance or indifference,”
its refusal “either to take this scheme or to leave it,”
its “inglorious exhibition of inability to make up its
mind,” and calls upon it to struggle out of “the dis-
credit it is earning for itself by the muddling of these
negotiations” and show that it has a mind.
It is now 18 months since the British Govern-
ment decided on the plan designed to place 17-ton
flying-boats, carrying 24 passengers and three tons of
mail, on all Empire routes, postage to be 14d. per
half-ounce letter irrespective of distance. It was pro-
posed that the three control sections which now look
after the London-Australia route should be merged or
linked so as to achieve unity of policy and adminis-
tration, and that the Imperial Airways concern, which
has borne the brunt of ’plane-building costs and of
much of the pioneering, should be subsidised for 15
years. The Australian subsidy was to cost £140,000
p.a. over and above the amount spent on the 14-day
service from London to Sydney, which is now so
reliably and regularly—late.
The arrangement was not to interfere with
internal services, and, as the merging of companies
and the purchase of new machines for use on coastal
routes show, existing commercial flying concerns have
not the slightest fear of it. While the negotiations
have dragged on, Australian Airlines has extended
its route along Queensland’s north coast and has
committed itself to a programme calling for heavy
expenditure within the next few years.
It was announced by the Overseas Trade Depart-
ment that the machines to be used in the Empire
service would have a cruising speed high enough to
“enable the promised schedule of seven days from
England to Sydney or Melbourne to be established”:
The distance is rather less than 12,000 miles, or
80 flying hours at 150 m.p.h. .
The promise has been amply kept. Machines of the
Canopus type have done 220 m.p.h. and can cruise
at 200 m.p.h. They have shown themselves capable
of attacking any commercial flying records so far set
up. They afe faster than the Comet that won the
London-Melbourne race. In short, they have dis-
posed of the first objection raised by Mr. Parkhill
for his Government: “Flying-boats are too slow.”
Another Parkhill “argument” was that to agree
to unity of management over the whole route would be
to sacrifice Australia’s right to control its internal
flying affairs. Mr. Parkhill would not have the face
to suggest that steamship routes between London and
Sydney should be divided into three so that Canberra
might run the Colombo-Sydney section, though
its legal power to control it could not be successfully
assailed on the score of State rights, as was its legal
power to control civil aviation within a State in the
Goya Henry case. It has not dawned on this Minister
that within ten years the air may be the main avenue
of travel between continents. Already Imperial Air-
ways plans to build flying ships with a 42-passenger
capacity, and 24-passenger boats are going into service
on Mediterranean routes as fast as they can be com-
pleted. Further development will depend on the
existence of organisations capable of spending im-
mense sums on building and experiment.
Canberra’s main objection to the agreement which
the British have offered for so long is that the thing
would make the carriage of mails cheap. Hence its
demand for a surcharge of sixpence on letters from
Australia to Britain, while letters from Britain to
Australia will be borne for three halfpence. Even a
public that puts up with twopenny postage when
Maoriland has penny postage would jib at having to
pay a halfpenny more on a letter to a man in the next
street than on a letter to a man in Scotland. And the
surcharges on internal air mail would have to be swept
away if there were no surcharge on external air mail.
A concern for Qantas is alleged to have influ-
enced the Canberra attitude. Qantas itself is in no
way alarmed. As far back as September, 1935, the
company issued a pamphlet in which it declared for
“an Empire service under one control”:
If any precedent is required we amply have this in
the operations of the K.P.M. frhm Amsterdam to
Batavia, Air France from Paris to Saigon, Luft Hansa
from Berlin to Buenos Ayres and Pan-American Air-
ways from Miami to Buenos Ayres. All these services
are long international lines, and it can be seen at a
glance that any splitting of control between the natural
terminals would be quite unthinkable, as it would,
without doubt, not only hamper and add to the cost
of operations, but would seriously interfere with progress.
As travel time is cut down, the “need for co-
operation between Dominions becomes more press-
ing.” And Qantas thinks that every year “breaks of
gauge” will become “more and more uneconomic”:
In these circumstances parochialism and insularity
are reactionary and out of step with modern thought.
That’s what’s the matter with the Government
at Canberra. It is parochial, insular, reactionary and
“out of step with modern thought.”
Distrust of John Hop.
Doubtless in most cases in which attempts are made
to damage their reputation the police are in the right.
It is natural for scoundrels and even petty lawbreakers
to try to bring the police into disrepute as a last
resort. Also, it is in the interest of lawbreakers of
all sorts that the word of the keepers of law and
order should always be open to doubt.
All of which are excellent reasons why the police
should make it a chief aim to lay down such a tradi-
tion of fair dealing and honorable conduct that the
whole decent part of the community will be behind
them to a man. That positively is not the position
in N. S. Wales and Victoria to-day.
In N. S. Wales there are ample signs that a vote
of no confidence in the force would win considerable
support from perfectly law-abiding citizens. Making
all manner of allowances, admitting the enormous
amount of excellent service the police perform, agree-
ing that the police generally are among the best types
of men we have, it can hardly be denied that the
conduct of some of them is largely responsible for
the low regard that too many have for them.
Here is a minor but significant instance that can
be vouched for. A Sydney man waiting outside a hall
was, without any parley, ordered by two patrolling
policemen to move on. The street was virtually empty;
the tone of the police officious and provocative. The
man said: “Why? I’m waiting for my wife.” He
was told with insulting belligerence to “Shut up —
and move on!”
This sort of experience is common. Those whose
business it is to protect the fair name of the force
will say that this citizen should have done so-and-so
and such-and-such. To all of which he would reply,
as would most people placed in such circumstances,
that the police were two to one ; he had no witnesses ;
who would believe his story against theirs? He did
what 99 law-abiding citizens in 100 would do —swal-
lowed his dignity and went back into the hall. He
would be one of the no-confidence voters.
The man who in a N. S. Wales court said, in
effect, that he pleaded guilty because it was a police-
man’s word against his, and the policeman’s word
would have to be taken, doubtless committed a most
heinous legal offence, thoroughly deserving to be
visited with punishment for contempt of Court. But
the plain layman fact is that that is what the average
man, however wrongly, does feel his position to be.
The police are the servants of the people, employed
as a protection against lawbreaking and disorder.
Instead of being objects of distrust they should have
the esteem and respect the majority of them deserve.
Moreover, they could win to that estate without much
difficulty.
At the moment an official imported from Scot-
land Yard is looking into the affairs of the Victorian
police. If he is so competent as to have been worth
bringing to Victoria for such investigating, his services
should be enlisted for similar work in other parts of
Australia. If he kept his eyes open he would notice
an extraordinary difference between many policemen
and their London brethren in their dealings with
decent citizens.
The London policeman figures in his country’s
humor —one of the surest of all guides to the truth
of things in any country —as a benign, friendly,
tolerant being, with a certain solid dignity. In Aus-
tralian humor his Counterpart figures not infrequently
as a uniformed thug, usually lumbering a well-
battered malefactor, or bulking belligerently oyer
some miserable citizen. This may be most unfair;
its point is that, as with topical humor everywhere,
it represents the generality of feeling, which in the
Australian instance is that of something approaching
dread and something that,has got beyond resentment.
The difference is largely one of approach. To
anyone of at all personable appearance —which is not
a matter of clothes only—the London policeman’s
approach is, what the country’s humor detects it to
be, friendly and even polite. It breathes the spirit
of the cardinal principle of British justice—that a
man is innocent until he is proved guilty.
In Australia the very opposite approach is so
common that it can be called, without much exag-
geration, prevalent. The impression too frequently-
gathered by the person who is in any way brought
into contact with the police is that he is in a false
position from the start: that he is adjudged guilty
in advance and that the onus is on him to prove
the contrary.
All the police have to do to take up a position
in which a vote of no confidence in them would be as
laughable as it would be in London is to make that
cardinal principle of our justice the cardinal principle
of their own conduct. They need a friendlier
approach to decent law-abiding people, and even
to petty offenders. They need, too, more drastic
penalties imposed within their organisation on any
of them proved guilty of dealing unjustly with those
they are intended to protect.
This present year has been one of the very worst
in their history. In various States, time and again,
charges of brutality have been made against them.
Judges and magistrates have trenchantly commented
on some of their actions. In N. S. Wales alone 18
of them were dismissed for “failing to act in a proper
manner towards citizens.”
There is still no lack of recruits. One call for
88 this year brought in 400 applicants. Every recruit,
and members of the force with them, should be
required to pass an examination in ordinary good
citizenship, which would include, specifically, social
behavior. ’ And any found guilty in the contrary
should be kicked out without benefit of Parliament
and without apology.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Still In the Dark.
“A complete prohibition of Japanese imports is in
operation at present,” said the Prime Minister one
day last week. On the following day Mr. Gullett
implored the House to pass the May tariff without
discussion—it has never been discussed —pleading that
it would lapse if not passed, and that “the negotia-
tions with Japan have reached the stage where there
is a reasonable prospect of a settlement.” On that
understanding the thing was accepted.
Nothing more has been said. As usual, Australia
has to look to Japan rather than to Canberra for
detailed information and judge the value of that infor-
mation by the state of the market.
The market has taken an upward jump. In
London, prices came to the parity which would have
been expected had Japan been buying three months
ago—a rise of about 2d. Australian per pound. Brad-
ford wooltops rose lid.-—7o’s = 38d. —during the week.
The November 21 weekly average in Sydney was
17.3 d., against 14.5 d. for the last October week.
The Domei newsagency, which disseminates official
information, announces that Japanese buyers con-
template suspending S. African purchases because of
the favorable atmosphere. Also from Japan comes
the report that Canberra proposed to limit imports
of Japanese rayon and textile to 100,000,000 yards,
that Japan stuck out for 150,000,000 yards, and that
compromise on 120,000,000 yards was possible. When
the discussions were broken off early in the year the
Japanese were told they must limit export of the two
commodities to Australia to 55,000,000 yards.
An early and lasting settlement would be to the
advantage of both countries. Nobody in either has
gained from the six months’ quarrel, and many have
lost.
A Good Australian Precedent.
An Australian Labor Government had an Australian-
born Jew appointed to the highest position in the
Commonwealth. South Africa’s Fusion Government
has chosen for Governor-General a representative of
another conquering race, also very able and with the
gift of laughing at its own idiosyncrasies: Patrick
Duncan, “son of John Duncan, of Banffshire,” and
graduate of Edinburgh University.
One of Milner’s young men, Mr. Duncan was
named Treasurer of the Transvaal while the Boers
were still in arms. He became Secretary of the Trans-
vaal before the Union, and was one of Smuts’s
Ministers for three years, 1921-24. Under Hertzog
he has been Minister of Mines.
The elevation of Mr. Duncan has evoked the
kind of protests that poured from Australian news-
papers in a flood in January and February, 1931. The
Cape “Argus” is convinced that “Cabinet has made
a great mistake that may have serious repercussions” ;
the Natal “Mercury” accuses Mr. Duncan of having
“sold the pass.” Sober history may describe the
appointment as a landmark in the reconciliation
of Boer and Briton. The predominant Afrikander
element in the Ministry will assuredly be given credit
for large-mindedness in selecting for the first Union
Governor appointed from within South Africa a man
of British birth who reached the Transvaal in the
train of a conquering army. For the rest, Mr.
Duncan’s record suggests that he will be as capable of
discharging his duties and protecting the interests of
the Crown as if he had been drawn from the British
artistocracy.
After five years of Isaac Isaacs at Canberra and
four years of James Mitchell at Perth, the loyalty of
the people to the Crown has not suffered a jot, and
there is universal agreement that the jobs entrusted
to these native-born Australians have been well done.
South Africans may well feel, as Australians do, that
no post in the country should be beyond the legiti-
mate ambition of the native-born and of citizens by
adoption.
The Lady from Lahore.
From a wayfarer:
I should like to be in Lahore. Life must be exciting there
since Mr. Paterson explained to all the world that Lahore has
been visited by “an adventuress.”
The lady's mother-in-law and other persons have denied
that she is an adventuress, and Canberra is now inquiring of the
Indian Government or the Indian army or the Methodist
Mission whether she is or not, meanwhile promising that should
any other Anglo-Indian dame ensnare the heart of an Aus-
tralian warrior the whole bench of Ministers, and not one
merely, will decide whether to exclude or admit her. But all
this is unlikely to lessen Lahore’s enjoyment of the situation.
Lahore is the very heSrt of Kipling Land; but it looked
to me the last time I saw it as if its vicarious naughtiness
had been debilitated by the heat.
Actually, there are three Lahores. There is the native
city, which is dirty, and has narrow streets and a few shat-
tered relics and a moribund fort and the muddy Ravi River.
There is nothing adventurous about the natives. Many of
them spend their time in summer sleeping under mango-trees.
In winter they turn over on the other side and sleep in pre-
paration for the summer.
Then there are the cantonments, three or four miles out
at Mian Mir. In the cantonments conversation rarely adven-
tures beyond such topics as who has been transferred, who
is dead, what ponies are fetching and what’ll win the Jammu
Cup. Every now and then a sturdy voice rises above the
dull murmur of speculation to demand a chota peg, some-
times even a barah peg, which is twice the size of a chota peg.
The other white Lahore is the Civil Station, which rejoices
in the licentious name of Donald Town. It did not look to
me fertile ground for adventuresses. There is nowhere even
for an adventuress to lay her head except in a narrow and
somewhat sagging bed at Faletti’s —though, perhaps, that has.
changed. The bed will be in a small room, and in summer
there will be a sac sac screen outside with a native pouring
water on it. Faletti’s will give the adventuress a key to the
room attached to a large brass disc about the size of a
dinner-plate. Every time she goes out luring innocents she
will jangle like a gun team.
The first place she will find herself in is the Mall. The
Mall is the pride of Lahore, next to the Shalamar Gardens.
It is about as wide and straight as Collins-street, Melbourne,
and in summer when the heat is really turned on—did I say
that Lahore is one of the hottest spots in India? —a hundred-
yard promenade will wilt all the allurement out of the
adventuress and fill her with a burning desire to drink the
Montgomery Canal dry. In winter somebody will hail her
and take her to leave cards on everybody within miles.
If she falls into the hands of the young Lahore male he
will (1) explain to her that she is now in one of the main
scenes of the “Man Who Would Be King,” (2) take her to the
“Civil and Military Gazette” office and point out where
Kipling sat, (3) conduct her to the fort and rant of Arungzeb,
(4) show her the Museum and explain that Kipling’s father
had a job there, (5) deposit the remains at Faletti’s (with key),
and (6) order long, cold drinks. She will then sleep for three
days unless she is a particularly hardy adventuress.
Perhaps when she awakes and arises she will find that a
gentleman from Canberra’s Secret Service has called to com-
municate what the colonel’s lady learned from Judy O'Grady
about her past, and that Faletti’s have ordered bigger and
better keys.
Cabinet Minister and Company
Director.
In B. 7/10/’36 attention was drawn to cases in which
members of N. S. Wales shire councils had been
fined £5O, plus costs, for having received “profitable
advantages” as citizens from council transactions,
and to the association of a Commonwealth Minister
with companies—as chairman of directors of one and
director of another —necessarily interested in doing
business with public bodies. One of the councillors
fined £5O was a solicitor at Port Macquarie; his
offence consisted in belonging to a golf club —annual
subscription, one guinea—which had agreed to pay
rent to the council conditionally on its improving the
links of a public reserve.
The Cabinet Minister is Senator A. J. McLachlan,
the Postmaster-General. Addressing the annual meet-
ing of shareholders in Hume Pipe (Australia), he
said, among other things,
A considerable programme of new works has
already been announced by Governments and municipal
bodies, and there are indications that a further increase
in business may be anticipated.
Anticipated by Hume Pipe (Australia), presum-
ably:—
The new Humeogeneous pipe continues to attract
attention. Hume Steel, in which this company holds a
large parcel of ordinary shares, continues to make
progress to such an extent that it has to rely on the
company for considerable finance.
The Government of which Mr. McLachlan was
a member is, in the words of his colleague at the
Treasury, “providing £lOO,OOO a year for ten years to
subsidise interest and sinking funds on loans raised
for public works by local-governing authorities.”
Mr. Blackburn, M.H.R., had asked the Prime
Minister in the House whether any member of the
Cabinet held a directorship in any company and, if
so, what company, and the extent of the gentleman’s
holding. The P.M.’s reply was: “No reason can
be seen why information of this personal character
should be supplied.” Mr. Blackburn gave him reasons.
On several occasions Mr. Gladstone declared that no
director of a public company ought to be member of a
Cabinet. This rule was strictly enforced by the Camp-
bell-Bannerman Ministry. In the “Parliamentary
Debates,” Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman made it
perfectly clear that he was carrying out the policy of
excluding from the Cabinet men who held directorships,
except on philanthropic bodies or in cases in which their
private businesses had been converted into proprietary
companies.
The Prime Minister was not in the House when
these remarks were made and Mr. Parkhill pro-
mised to “bring them to his notice.” That was on
October 9. On October 21 the following appeared
in “Construction,” a trade paper, under the heading
“Tenders Accepted or Received: Postmaster-General’s
Department”:
Con. 5825 —Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Box 4534,
G.P.0., Melbourne, C.l. Sched. C. 1638. Conduits
(approx.), £4750 6s. 3d. N.S.W., Queensland and
Tasmania.
In the same publication of April 22 the subjoined
item was published, also under “Tenders Accepted
or Received: Postmaster-General’s Department”:
Con. No. 5116 —Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., 114
King-street, Melbourne, C.l. Sch. C. 1450. Conduits
(approximately), £l2OO. New South Wales.
Mr. Blackburn should put a few more questions
to the Prime Minister.
Diggers for Universal Training.
Here and there opposition to universal training for
citizen service has been voiced at annual meetings
of State branches of the Diggers’ League. At the
Federal congress, held at Adelaide, it was emphati-
cally affirmed that “the ideals for which the A.I.F.
fought can be maintained in this era of intense
nationalism only by the adoption of universal military
training to provide for the adequate defence of Aus-
tralia.” A supplementary resolution was equally
striking:
That, simultaneously with the reintroduction of uni-
versal military training, there should be some method
of registration and organisation of the whole of Aus-
tralia’s resources in wealth, man-power, material and
industry, and in the event of an international crisis
arising the whole of these should be conscripted.
No doubt delegates had been reading the report
of the debate on the Defence estimates and had noted
that the time allotted was a whole five hours. In previ-
ous years it was the rule for the Minister to give a
general explanation of the year’s policy and items
on the floor of the House—the proper place for such
an analysis. This year the “explanation” was circu-
lated in type to members, and did not find its way
into “Hansard.” The Minister apologised for this
departure from custom:
Had I known this vote would have been under
consideration so soon, I should have distributed the
statement at an earlier date.
Cabinet decided the estimates timetable. M"-
Parkhill is a member of Cabinet. His memorandum
was issued so late that members had no time to digest
it. And an uninstructed House took so little interest
in the subject that a quorum had to be called for
while the Minister was speaking.
The resolutions of the R.S.L. congress are, in
substance, a warning to the Government that trifling
with the defence question will no longer be tolerated.
The Hume Dam.
It was not anticipated seventeen years ago that the
Hume dam would cost £5,500,000 or that it would lake
so long to complete; but it has been completed at
last, and the opening was very properly celebrated
as a historical event.
Directly or indirectly, the dam will sejve three
States. It is capable of irrigating 4,000,000 acres,
and if the water can be supplied cheap enough it
should give the Riverina as much crop and pasturage
area as Victoria. And it should greatly change the
political status of the Riverina and give a new impetus
to its demand for the right to manage its own affairs.
The Riverina has over 7000 holdings. Half of
them are devoted to mixed farming and grazing, as
good agricultural land should be. There are already
1400 irrigation farmers in the Murrumbidgee area.
The improved capital value of all holdings is about
£55,000,000, or nearly £4 per acre, which means that
land prices are moderate.
Water has always been a bar to the progress
of the Riverina. The Hume dam should go a long
way towards putting it permanently on its feet.
Traffic-conscious Melbourne.
Melbourne is more traffic-conscious to-day than ever
before, and city authorities have reached the stage
of considering further Yarra bridges.
Most of the city proper lies within a half-mile
radius of the Elizabeth-street post office. Flinders,
Spencer, Victoria and Spring streets enclose the area
that fills with workers in the morning and almost
empties in the evening.
Trains, trams and buses, as well as cars, carry
peak-hour rushes. Unfortunately, most suburban
trains dump city workers at the Flinders-street corner
where cars from suburbs south of the Yarra pour
across Princes Bridge ; trams from those suburbs, and
from out Richmond way, add to the confusion at
lower Swanston-street.
South of the Yarra are the nearer residential
suburbs and those extending round the bay to Franks-
ton. Their workers, and those from Bentleigh, Oak-
leigh and Balwyn on the south-east of the river, have
only Princes and Queen’s bridges as direct motor
exits from the city proper. Motorists from south-
eastern suburbs actually cross the Yarra higher up,
but in doing so they swell traffic bound for Rich-
mond, Heidelberg and suburbs east of the city and
north of the river.
Congestion and all it entails will be relieved only
by the construction of the two Yarra bridges—at
Punt-road, north of Princes Bridge, and between
Princes Bridge and Queen’s Bridge—suggested by the
City Engineer, P. S. Robinson. The Punt-road
proposal looks like becoming fact, for Premier Dun-
stan says he will authorise the Country Roads Board
to share the cost with the City Council.
The new traffic code, desigrled to reduce the
number of road accidents, is operating under hopeless
conditions. Its chief result has been to extend con-
gestion bothers to outer areas, for outbound city
traffic is held up by repeated stops and starts at tram-
line crossings beyond the river. Were there more
city outlet bridges to divide traffic streams the code
would have a chance of achieving its object without
delaying peak-hour clearances.
Menzies on Dictators.
“If a seat in Parliament becomes vacant you have
almost to go round entreating men to take an interest
in politics.” So said Mr. Menzies, the Commonwealth
Attorney-General, at a Sydney Millions Club
luncheon. He had previously asked the lunchers “Is
Parliament to be the resort of idlers, the home of
failures?” Then he struck another note: “Let me
tell you the people in Parliament with me are a lot
better than their critics. At least, they have been
prepared to have a go at it.”
Mr. Menzies has fears for the future of Parlia-
mentary government in Australia, and visions the
possibility of a dictatorship within his own lifetime.
It is good to learn that one Australian politician dis-
approves of dictatorships. But what would be Mr.
Menzies’s term for the proceedings of transport
strangulation boards, the expropriation of private bus
services (a lot more are to be “taken over” by the anti-
socialist Stevens Government) and the operations of
the Commonwealth censorships, from the banning of
Brave New World to the exclusion of Mrs. Freer on
moral grounds. Are they democratic or dictatorial?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“E.E.”: Our daily help’s envious com-
ment on the Freer disturbance: “Ain’t
she lucky? She’ll be able fo go on the
pictures or talk over the air or do what
she likes now.” “Oh, I don’t know,”
someone put in dubiously. “Yes, she
will,” delivered with an air of intense
conviction. “Women who get her
chances can do what they like. She
won’t have to marry the bloke she came
out here to see. She’ll make more money
lecturing on women’s rights or some-
thing,” “Women’s rights” seemed parti-
cularly good.
* * * *
“Pons”: That Lindsay cartoon of John
Knox and “The Monstrous [“Monstrifer-
ouse,” John said] Regiment of Women ’
is a reminder that the ancient divines
seemed to have regarded the sex in
general with undisguised aversion; some
of them seem to have had an extra derry
on their own wives. A writer of the
’eighties, Henry Prothero, revived the old
story that Cranmer once shut his wife
up in a box, but, for some unfathomable
reason, let her out again. The Rev.
Laurence Sterne tartly said that he was
tvgrotus ac fatigatus —fed up to the
teeth — uxoris mece —with Mrs. Sterne ;
and a seventeenth century bishop of
Down voiced similar views about his
missus. Aylmer, according to Prothero,
described women as “triflers, flibber-
gibbes and folyshnes,” but (possibly out
of regard for his own neck) he made an
exception in the case of Queen Bess.
Pious Jeremy Taylor, in that edifying
work Holy Living, tells the yarn of a
man who threw a stone at a dog. The
stone missed the hound but gave the
man’s mother-in-law a fearful crack.
“Thus,” says Jeremy, “the stone was not
wholly in vain.”
* * * *
“Ampere”: Pointed reminders of
overdue accounts? One allegedly sent
by a Childers (Q.) storekeeper to a de-
faulting customer was quoted for years
in the back country. It ran:
Sir, —Who bought a lot of goods from
me and didn’t pay for them? You. Who
promised to pay in 60 days? You. Who
is a thief, a liar and a scoundrel? Yours
truly, Mick H , storekeeper.
❖ * * *
“Are”: A broadcasting padre the
other day asked listeners whether they
put out their pipes and cigarettes dur-
ing the services. It would not have
bothered the clergy of other generations.
In the Old Dart, at least, smoking was
common during service; some churches
provided pipe racks and spittoons. As
late as 1850 in Wales the start of the
sermon was the accepted signal for the
male members to light up. Also, readers
of The Heart of Midlothian will recall
the character who smoked through
the whole of the service, which some-
times lasted two hours, consuming as
much tobacco as he could borrow from
near-by worshippers.
H*
“Selma”: The question of a hand-
writing test to judge a man’s sobriety or
otherwise cropped up in a M.L. court
the. other day. The s.m. consulted a
doctor who happened to be a witness
in the case. The medico looked distinctly
alarmed. “Well, I only hope nobody is
ever asked to judge my sobriety on my
writing,” he said feelingly. The test was
ruled out.
* * * *
“Sixenate” : Medical mileage fees were
drawn up in the days when doctors had
to drive or ride horses along rough bush
tracks, but at 10s. 6d. a mile in this
motoring age a doctor could charge 10
or 20 guineas for a call that might have
taken up no more than an hour or two
of his time. Mostly the. profession re-
cognises the altered conditions, but there
are exceptions, and a Victorian Judge
has made some sharp remarks about one
who put in for the full allowance.
"Sonah cut a third from a big bill the
medico had presented, adding that it
was up to the B.M.A. to alter its mile-
age scale.
* * * *
“Shanghai”: Let me correct “Sach”
(B. 28 /10/ ’36) on two points. He says
that marine engineers have to pass in
navigation. I have been everything
from sixth to chief engineer, and I know
nothing about it. He is also wrong in
citing the Empire as the ship on which
an engineers’ strike was squelched by
W. M. Hughes in 1919 under the War
Precautions Act. The Empire was not
in Australian waters at the time; the
vessel concerned was the Eastern. Two
of this ship’s engineers were gaoled.
They had both served in the transport
“ ‘Sketched from life —the idea! Isn't it positively ridiculous , 'Tilda?"
service, in which the casualty rate was
a fraction over 10 p.c.—in the Navy it
was only 7 p.c.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The residential system ten-
tatively tried at Adelaide University had
a severe blow when St. Andrew’s Col-
lege announced its intended closing. The
old home, of the Duncan family (Senator
Duncan-Hughes is the present head) was
presented by them to the Presbyterian
body for residential purposes, but pre-
sumably its distance (four or five miles)
from the University has been too much
of a handicap. St. Mark’s (Anglican),
right on the spot by Adelaide Oval, was
first in the field, and for the moment has
a monopoly. However, a Roman Catho-
lic educational conference sitting in Adel-
aide last week announced that it hopes
to be. able to found another college—
also close in:
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Decided by S.A. Supreme
Court that a wife who had accepted £4
a week under a deed of separation as
enough to live on is not barred from
applying for bigger maintenance now
that the husband is dead, leaving
£35,000. He had continued the same
allowance by his will, but the Court
called it “not adequate provision for
proper maintenance,” and calculated this
carefully at £5 10s.
“G.F.N.”: “Puffin’ Billy,” Queens-
land’s first locomotive, which arrived
from Scotland over 70 years ago, has
had a house built around it after being
exposed to the weather for months near
Roma-street railway station, Brisbane.
The old warrior is the last survivor of
Australia’s pioneer locos., and, if care-
fully preserved, should be an interest-
ing exhibit at Queensland’s centenary 23
years hence.
* * * *
“Old Bull”: Times change indeed. In
a Brisbane paper which resurrects hap-
penings of 50 years ago I read that the
local wharf-laborers’ union accepted the
explanation of a foreman who had dis-
missed a lumper for obscene language
and punching him. Also, it severely
censured the lumper. Within quite re-
cent times when writer was in close
contact with wharf-laborers the meeting
would have congratulated the lumper,
demanded the instant dismissal of the
foreman and insisted on their “vic-
timised” mate being reinstated —all this
on pain of holding up all Australian and
overseas shipping indefinitely.
.. * * * *
“C. Mac”: “Definite” may be work-
ing overtime in our press and speech
(B. 18/11 / ’36), but in the national men-
tality I should say mdefiniteness remains
one of our most noticeable characteris-
tics. That seems especially true of bush-
dwellers. Only persistence, and a lot
of it, can secure a definite answer to a
plain question. Fishing the other night
on a river wharf one of the party got
going between bites on the fun he’d had
among hammerhead sharks the week
before. “How big were they?” someone
asked conversationally. Answer: “Oh,
they were a fair size.” The fish getting
quiet, it was suggested that we move up
river to another wharf. Question:
“About how far is it?” Answer: “Oh,
it’s a good way.” I also gathered that
the old Liz we were riding in “could hit
up a fair bat,” that the moon would not
rise till “pretty late” (it rose about 2
a.m.), and that the current income of an
average dairyman milking 30 cows was
“not much.” The only two definite pro-
nouncements of the night were that the
rum was potent and that catfish were
s.
**. * *
“Bonehead Publico ; No one can take
exception to the statement that “a man’s
life is his own to adventure as he thinks
fit” (B. 18/11/-36); but it hardy adven-
turers wish to put to sea in frail craft,
or embark on any other like enterprises,
the State should not be expected to go
searching for them when they come to
grief. In two recent cases a search was
undertaken by the Government for miss-
ing seafarers—at considerable public ex-
pense. That is not the purpose for
which we have a navy, and neither
sailors nor policemen should be with-
drawn from their ordinary duty to go
looking for hardy adventurers.
* *' * *
“Oxmead”: “Lex” lays it down that
the wife of an English sovereign is only
a queen by courtesy—“she is not Queen
of England, and when her husband’s life
conies to an end her job has ceased” (B.
18/11/ ’36). Nevertheless there was one
notable exception to the rule in the case
of William 111. and his Mary. They
were King and Queen, both by right and
Parliamentary proclamation, and the effi-
gies of both in their joint capacity ap-
peared, I believe, on the coins of the
period. Hence, if Mary had outlived
her husband, her job wouldn’t have
ceased ; she would have remained Queen.
Since then, the widow of a deceased
monarch becomes a Queen Mother —
which, after all, sounds more imposing
than Dowager. Apropos, I have some-
times wondered what Albert the Good
would have been styled if Queen Vic-
toria had died 40 years or so before she
did. Would he have become a King
Father?
* * * *
“Hamfat”: The theatrical barracker
is sometimes more to be dreaded than
his brother of the cricket ground or the
stadium (B. 11/11 / ’36). At the old
Lyceum, Sydney, I remember a man
rising deliberately in the front stalls (the
play was “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”) and with
a loud “Your show’s rotten!” making
for the exit. The effect was en-
hanced by his boots, which creaked at
every step of the outward march. The
stunned silence was broken by a burst of
laughter, after which the actors had a
hard job to continue their performance.
Quite the severest theatre barracking I
remember, however, was provided by an
aggrieved landlady who, having been
bilked by a company of travelling Thes-
pians, pursued her debtors from town
to town evidently prepared to pay for
her revenge. Her deadly “Why don’t
you pay your board bill?” thrown in at
most disconcerting places, night after
night, seriously affected the box-office.
* * * *
“Kellick”: Sailors have various ways
of augmenting their scanty pay. The
credit for a really original notion goes
to one of our own lads who was on
exchange duty with the R.N. There he
discovered that the half-pound tins of
tobacco were too bulky for kit lockers
to hold a decent stock. The outcome
was a “pressing firm.” Tins were col-
lected on issue days and returned when
they had been* compressed to half-size.
was no t opened nor was the
tobacco affected. Fee—twopence a tin!
* * * *
.. H ,R,C”: The old Bank of N.S.W. in
Church . street Parramatt a, has been de-
, ,
rnohshed with difficulty on account of
it’s strength, the walls being four bricks
thick. It had another distinction in the
remarkable vine which decorated the
whole of one side of the premises, hav-
ing been planted in the early seventies
and grown with great vigor ever since,
The building, erected in 1836, was ongi-
nally a high-class pub called the Aus-
tralian Arms, a favorite resort of the
country gentry and their families when
they came to town. It had a beautiful
cedar staircase, up which a hilarious
guest once rode his pony.
LOSSES.
“Members are crowded in party rooms without
decent provision for their accommodation. There
are no lockers for coats and hats, and there have
been losses of overcoats and umbrellas. In some
of the passages the rain comes in.” —Plaint of N.S.W.
legislator.
We know, when our Assembly rocks
To fiercely-factious noises,
Some chaps are bound to “do their blocks”
1.e., to lose their poises.
And while the controversial cracks
And vicious verbal volleys
Divide and rend the rival packs
’Tis sad to think some lose their “macks”
And others lose their “brollies.”
Some lose their voices in the hot,
Hard words that beat about them—
I'm not suggesting that they’re not
A bit the worse without them;
But, still, it’s tough that all the best
Of all the State’s “stout fellas”
Whose polling worth has been assessed
Should see their overcoats go west
And mourn their lost umbrellas.
Some lose their “first fine rapture” there,
And some their party bosses:
You’d hardly hit on, anywhere,
So wide a field for losses.
Some lose their seats (and all the oof
That makes the calling jolly);
But still they never hit the roof
About a vanished waterproof
Or an elusive “brolly.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“V.A.G.” • An insurance salesman
who called on my wife the other day
should win this year’s ingenuity stakes.
After other arguments failed, he put it
to her that she should take out an en-
dowment policy to provide funds for a
divorce if ever she should want one!
* * * *
“Tristram”: I sometimes run a roving
eye over the view mat. ads. to discover
if ladies who resort to such love-calls
can discover any new means of schedul-
ing their allurements beyond “refined,”
“domesticated,” “generally considered
attractive,” “musical,” “fond of outdoor
life,” “some means” and so on. Hence
it was that this bit of plain bluntness
(‘‘S.M.H.,” 16/11/’36) struck me as dis-
tinctly out of the ordinary:—-
English person, 46, wishes meet respec-
table working man.
It must be about' the first time since
view mat. ads. were instituted that a
“After a round of golf I can eat like a horse."
“Well, slip on a nosebag an get in there with old Prince .”
middle-aged lady could find no more
piquant description of herself than a
“person.”
£ * ¥ j>:
“H.A.L.”: At one. school I attended
we were taught things like finding our
bearings from the sun (B. 4/11/ ’36).
Our teacher had been a sailor, pros-
pector and survey chainman. One of
his lessons was a “Back-to-Nature” day.
We rose with the sun, lighted fires black-
fellow fashion and grilled on the coals
a breakfast of rabbits, stumpy-tailed
lizards or yabbies. The course further
included plaiting hats from grass or
sfringybark strips, making bark sandals,
building wurlies, etc. Another day was
devoted to instruction in tracking, the
next to locating water with pointed
sticks, and we also had lessons in
robbing the hives of wild bees with-
out the use of veils, capturing rabbits
and possums with string snares and
weaving cray pots from lignum sticks.
That school is still in existence; it is
known as the Boy Scout movement and
our lessons were learnt at the annual
camp on the Coorong, Lower Murray,
or Kingston (S.A.). But I must admit
that only one. scoutmaster in a thousand
had the skill, enthusiasm or experience
possessed by ours.
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: Like South Aus. (B.
11/11/ ’36) N. S. Wales proved thirstier
last year than ever before. It stowed
away just about 23,000,000 gallons ol:
beer, beating the 1934 total by 3,000,000
gallons. It was the first time N. S..
Welshmen sank in a year more beer
than milk.
“Froth Blower”: S.A.’s beer consump-
tion is nothing to that of the New
Guinea goldfields. There the annual
consumption works out at round about
200 gallons per man ; this, despite the
fact that the stuff costs up to 7s. 6d. a
bottle. The fields, however, are now to
have their own brewery; a local co. has
been registered in Sydney to establish
one at Wau with a capacity of 65,000
gallons a year.
H* :J: 3}: 4*
“Alpha”: “Marita” (B. 4/11/’36)
slips in his statement that London Jacks
took action against - the wearing of the
slouch hat with down-turned brim. This
usage, was uniform throughout the Eggs-
a-cook, a dictum of General Monash
which caused immense discontent in the
Third Division; already sensitive about
being late-comers, they resented what
was intended to “distinguish” them. In-
cidentally, English cartoonists had their
own view of the turn-up’s origin. A
popular postcard, depicting an Aussie
with a cuddlesome face tucked up close
to his left jawbone, bore the simple
label, “Why the Australian Hat Turns
Up at the Side.”
* * * *
“No. 1”: Some prominent citizen
long ago presented Blackburn (Eng.)
Museum with an excellent nugget speci-
men of Australian gold, which genera-
tions of students examined to aid them
in telling the real Mackay from pyrites.
Then came the loosening of the gold
standard, and the committee sent its
7+oz. treasure to London for assay. The
report was a shade disheartening—the
nugget contained no gold. But the close
imitation produced by a mixture of lead
and brazier’s metal really intrigued the
assayers. ,
“Three-and-Six, Please! ”: Chemists’
charges? In Boulder (W.A.) 25, years
ago a compulsory levy on mines to en-
sure medical attention and medicine for
all put many doctor employees on a
good thing, and chemists reckoned them-
selves entitled to a bigger cut. On a
long-standing contract price of 6jd. per
scrip they demanded a penny increase.
Against this the doctors declared that
“Hey, what's the hurry?"
“ Don't ask ME — it's Sultan's orders!"
“Awfu’ fu’ ”: When the Carlisle
Castle crashed on the reefs south of
Fremantle in ’9B the beach for miles was
strewn with mountain dew in bottle and
in barrel. Racing against the arrival of
Customs officers the beachcombers took
aboard as much as they could hold and
sunk the rest in the sand dunes. Unfortu-
nately, one sand dune is much the same
as another; so most of the stuff still
the standing price was ample, and that
even at a penny less there would be a
fair profit. The chemists proving obdu-
rate, individual doctors established small
dispensaries in their surgeries, giving
examination and medicine: “No coming
back in 20 minutes—and far better drugs
than you’d be getting from the chemists.”
The. pharmacists survived it.
H*
“Sky Pilot”: “Lex” (B. 11/11/’36) is
under a misapprehension. Anglican doc-
trine does not sanction divorce, and never
has done so. True it does not excom-
municate members who have been
divorced ; but I have yet to hear of an
Anglican priest performing a marriage
ceremony when one of the contracting
parties is in this category.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Would-be Labor poli-
ticians of the legal fraternity are per-
turbed at a recent move which threatens
to bar them from, membership of the
N.S.W. Clerks’ Union. This organisation,
tired of being made a political “umbrella,”
has obtained a ruling from the. Federal
executive that solicitors and barristers,
unless they are merely employees, have
no right to membership. Presumably legal
gentlemen affected by this ruling will
have to become “laborers.” The United
Laborers’ Union, before the Clerks’
Union came on the scene, included all
sorts and conditions of toilers, from uni-
versity professors and an Arctic explorer
to the mere blokes who dug the roads.
* * * -i=
“Eques”: General Chauvel was de-
scribed the other day by Colonel Farr,
who served under him in Palestine, as
“the most excellent cavalry leader since
Darius.” Without detracting for a
moment from Chauvel’s military reputa-
tion, it seems strange to find Darius held
up as being in a class of his own in
this department of warfare. If the. Per-
sian king really was a great cavalry
leader, how did it happen that Alexander
of Macedon knocked spots off him
at Arbela (331 b.c.) when, according to
the records, “the army of Darius con-
sisted of 1,000,000 foot and 40,000
horse; the Macedonian army amounted
to only 40,000 foot and 7000 horse”? If
a comparison were needed, there have
been many great cavalry leaders in the
last few hundred years, including
Maurice of Nassau, Gustavus Adolphus,
Turenne, Conde, Marlborough, Frederick
the Great and Napoleon. It is a little
curious to recall that there was a period
when the Turks, against whom Chauvel
won his reputation, possessed the most
formidable and efficient cavalry in
Europe. But that was back in the
eighteenth century.
lies buried, having defied all attempts to
locate it. There are still old hands
who, after a storm, give the dunes a
look over in the hope—occasionally re-
warded —of spying the. uncovered edge
of a case or barrel. Sand is a great
preservative ; corks are still fairly sound,
and that near-40-year-buried whisky
takes beating.
* * * *
“Main Brace”: If pilots in the next war
use. nothing more lethal than a duck
gun (B. 18/11 /’36) I for one will not
stop home. With ’planes doing some-
where about 400 m.p.h., the shot would
not leave the muzzle, or, if it did, the
’plane would overtake it. The other day
a French Army chief criticised the. Eng-
lish for sticking to the obsolete machine-
gun armament for ’planes. He contended
that the effective range, 2500 yards, was
too short, and advocated the small
cannon (not pom-pom) for useful range
of up to about 10,000 yards. The shell
from one of these can be guaranteed to
stop any ’plane, even by just going
through the fabric. A one-inch hole
in fabric or metal of a ’plane doing over
200 m.p.h. would mean the stripping of
that ’plane, by the terrific slipstream in
a few seconds.
* * * *
From the Tnky Way:
I see John Barrymore, who is 54, has taken
a fifth girl-wife, and Paulette Goddard says that
she is really married to Charlie Chaplin, who
is in the fifties also and has had several other
wives, and the spouses of Laurel and Hardy
are suing them for maintenance, and Errol
Flynn and Lili Damita are about to dissolve
a marriage that has lasted fully three months,
and Mary Pickford (aged 43) is about to wed
Buddy Rogers (aged 32), who will be Mary’s
third—l don’t know how many brides Mr.
Rogers has had. It all seems rather cheap and
nasty, but I suppose flapper-papers would vote
it thrilling. Flapper-papers seem to be run on
the principle that the average woman spends
a large part of her life reading and dreaming
about and going to see the shadow shapes of
film people. I wonder whether it’s true, and
whether she doesn’t really regard the slush
served up to her in the “hot news from Holly-
wood” as an insult to her intelligence and her
standards of taste.
Only people who have never travelled with
actors have any illusions about them. It was
once my experience to make a long sea voyage
with a company which was rather above the
average in personnel and quality of plays pro-
duced. I happened to mention to a ship’s
officer with whom I had struck up an acquaint-
ance that it must be romantic to tote so
many interesting people about the world.
“Romantic?” he barked. “Interesting? You'll
get those idiotic notions out. of your noddle
before the end of the voyage. For one
actor who can talk intelligently and is good
company, you will find a dozen who are dull,
surly, quarrelsome, stuck-up, gluttonous and
boozy. "Most of them hate one another, and
two-thirds of them keep the stewards waiting on
them in their cabins because they are too
damned lazy to get up for meals. Actors!
There isn’t a soul on board, from the skipper
to the slushy, who doesn’t hate to see them
come up the gangway.” And I daresay it is
the same when film companies travel.
RHYME OF A DIVORCE LAWYER.
“Already this year there have been 1983 peti-
tions for divorce in N.S.W.”
How nice it is to contemplate
This satisfying figure,
And think, before we shut the gate
Upon this year and wipe the slate,
It’s certain to be bigger!
How very nice it is to think
Of all the happy cooing,
Of every tender word and wink
That helped to forge each joyous link
Which now they are undoing.
How gratifying to recall
The wedding and the speeches,
The bridegroom towering staunch and tall,
She nestling close beside him, small,
And sweet as fifty peaches!
How jolly to remember how,
With vows and sighs endearing,
And fluttering ribbons at the bow,
They left to honeymoon, and now,
The shouting and the cheering.
And then the joys of married bliss,
Than which what is there sweeter?
She waiting with a loving kiss,
He, not a fraction more remiss,
Fair racing home to greet her.
And after that the fun they had,
The things they called each other,
He diagnosing her as mad,
She designating him a cad,
And tearing home to mother.
Last scene of all, as Shakspeare says,
Last cooking of their hashes,
The merry parting of their ways,
Proceedings all the vows to raze
And promises make ashes.
Upon the Bench the jolly Beak,
The counsel, bright and happy,
Day after day, week after week,
Jowl unto jowl, and cheek to cheek ...
Decrees —and make ’em snappy!
And so, as bursts with each decree
A matrimonial bubble,
We contemplate the rout with glee,
And hope next year we’ll live to see
The splendid figure double.
N.S.W.
COSTS.


V
20/0/16
9
Ior
or
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
#
€
m
m
m
POLITICAL POINTS
It has been stated that colleagues of
the fatuous Paterson admit that he made
a mess of the Mrs. Freer case, but one
Minister at least is behind him. Can
anyone guess who he is?... Everyone is
right—Parkhill.
“S. M. Herald” has published three
more articles on “monetary policy” by
Stevens, the Sydney Premier. The
“policy” amounts to resumption of bor-
rowing in London. And this is the
Stevens who “saved New South Wales’’
—the heaven-born financier who is going
to balance the Budget! So another
newspaper-made political reputation
goes down the wind.
Curtin has his troubles as well as
Lyons. Under instructions from the
Q.C.E., Queensland members of his party
are to support the marketing referendum
because “orderly marketing” is Q.C.E.
policy; under instructions from Lang’s
A.L.P., N. S. Wales members are to
oppose the aviation referendum because
“civil aviation is a menace to State Gov-
ernment railways.” Apparently it is no
longer safe for Labor leaders to tell
organisation bosses to put their heads
in bags.
Though the loan was extensively ad-
vertised and principal and interest (4j-
p.c.) were, guaranteed by the State Gov-
ernment, Brisbane City Council got only
£301,100 of the £400,000 for which it
went on the market. Lord Mayor Jones
says the £301,100 will “see us to the
end of February,” which doesn’t sound
hopeful. A few remarks from Stevens,
the great borrowing Premier, would have
been in order, but Stevens chose to
remain silent.
Ex-Premier Hogan, now one of Dun-
stan’s Ministers, said he wasn’t a bit
worried about the migration from Vic-
toria of agricultural research officers, but
it has begun to worry Dunstan. He has
promised to go into the question of in-
creased pay. The day he made his
announcement another research officer
resigned and a senior supervisor was
offered a better job.
South Australians take so little in-
terest nowadays in the doings of the.
Parliament at Adelaide that even the
Government’s attempt to have five-
year Parliaments voted into the Consti-
tution stirred up no protest meetings.
But something happened to prevent the
Five-year Parliament Bill being passed,
and Butler had to explain why. He. said
it was dropped “to meet the convenience
of members, many of whom have to
fulfil engagements at centenary func-
tions.” So for once the public interest
scored because the convenience of mem-
bers was consulted.
J. D. Annand, Mayor of and some-
time M.L.A. for Toowoomba, aspires to
succeed the late Littleton Groom in Dar-
ling Downs. He is U.A.P. The U.C.P.
is running A. W. Fadden, another ex-
M.L.A. Groom always polled a good
personal vote, and if Labor gets it Labor
may win the seat.
Toowoomba and East Toowoomba are
subdivisions of Darling Downs, and both
have State Labor members. So have
Warwick and the parts of Bremer and
Carnarvon that are in Darling Downs.
On the other hand, Opposition-leader
Maher (West Moreton) and ex-Premier
Moore (Aubigny) represent slices of
Darling Downs in the State House.
Two years ago the Q.C.E. picked the
Queensland Labor candidates for the
Senate, and all three were surprisingly
beaten. This time there is to be a ballot,
and there are 30 candidates for the
three nominations. It suggests not only
that U.A.P.-U.C.P. stocks are low in
Queensland, but' that they would be
lower still but for the Q.C.E.
Westralian Labor has ordered another
vessel for the State shipping venture- It’s
a poor time to buy steamers or oil-
burners, and when run by Governments
they never pay—the Westralian loss last
year was £34,400; the loss since the in-
ception of the service, £816,500. But
it is explained that the present Govern-
ment fleet grows old and the Nor’-west
trade demands an addition ; so British
shipbuilders are to get another £266,000
from the next loan.
Isaac Isaacs, back in Australia from
Britain, gave a Fremantle reporter to
understand that he could say a lot about
international politics but preferred to say
"No ill-veeling, Isaacschtern , and you are a Dree achent, as you know.
But are you mit ’ us or not mil' us ?”
nothing. How about a few remarks on
the amazing amount granted to him for
expenses? Did a gentleman of 81 really
require £4271 for a visit to the King,
who, incidentally—more power to his
elbow!—has been visiting distressed
areas by way of reminding the British
nation of its duty to the unemployed?
Perhaps Deakin’s old follower will re-
turn portion of the allowance to the
Treasury, as did his chief on a famous
occasion.
On the proposal to reshuffle Council
territories, the Vic. Legislative Council
has put another spoke in the Dunstan
Government’s wheel. Unofficial-leader
Cohen got the thing adjourned for a
fortnight. With the end of the session
in sight, a little stonewalling will delay
approval sufficiently to relieve the 17 re-
tiring members of going to June elections
on the new boundaries.
At Canberra’s instigation Vic. Chief
Secretary Bailey banned the production
in Melbourne of “Till the Day I Die.”
The Mayor of Collingwood said he would
see it was produced, and Collingwood
delightedly witnessed the buckshee enter-
tainment of his Washup trying to jemmy
his way into his own town hall, previously
locked by disapproving fellow-councillors.
.But the affair has its serious side. Aus-
tralian politicians have bans on the brain.
After passing some good Australian
resolutions at its Federal conference, the
A.N.A. drifted into the appalling blunder
of voting that “support for the League
of Nations should be the fundamental
principle of Australian foreign policy.”
It has been answered by James Parr, who
returns from Maoriland’s High Com-
missioner’s office with the report
that “no one in England now places the
slightest reliance on the League or ‘col-
lective action’ as a means of preserving
peace.” And Parr was Maoriland’s
representative at Geneva for years.
„ ri , , ... , . . . -
When the bill for the marketing refei-
endum was going through the House,
the yarn was that all primary pro-
ducers it In one day last
week, the Jrmee branch of the Graziers
Association declared against it and the
N.S.W. Citrus-growers’ Defence Asso-
ciation, at its annual meeting, decided
to ask all its branches “to work for the
cultivation of a public attitude against
this referendum.” And representatives of
18 branches were present.
The Sydney Government, which, as its
Buttonhole blurted out, let a twelve-
month go by without throwing open
one small holding—this though it
had a Small Holdings Act passed,
and pigeonholed, four years ago—
has suddenly announced that it will
make “between £1,500,000 and £1,750,000
available for closer settlement this finan-
cial year.” Its Rural Bank will lend up
to 66 2-3 p.c., and it will guarantee an-
other 13 1-3 p.c.; the 80 p.c. is repayable
over 31 years, with 4{- p.c. p.a. added. It
now seems that “owners of several large
properties have expressed their willing-
ness to subdivide.”
N.S.W. landseekers can thank McKeri-
han, of the Rural Bank, for forcing the
Government to recognise the need for
closer settlement. Left to itself, the
Government would have gone on sleep-
ing, waking only at long intervals to
mumble something to the effect that it
“saved the country from Lang” in 1932,
and that ought to be enough for any
country.
At an Adelaide entertainment to visit-
ing newspapermen, Justice Angas Par-
sons proposed their health and advised
them to be “Argus-eyed.” An old
“Argus” man replied for them. But
surely his Honor doesn’t expect them to
be “Argus”-eyed?
The U.S.A. has a Foreign Trade
Council which holds annual conventions
at which countries trading with the
U.S.A. make a point of being
represented, Japan particularly.
Australia, though specially in-
vited, has not been represented
for two years. Yet Canberra
maintains a Commissioner
somewhere in the U.S.A. and
a Minister from Sydney has
been wandering about the
country, on heaven knows what
business. The refusal to let the
Commissioner attend looks like
mere churlishness; but nowa-
days national policy seems to
be under the direction of poli-
ticians whose intellectual devel-
opment was permanently
arrested at 13.
It came out last week that
the Germans and the Japanese
had agreed upon a common
policy regarding Red Russian
aggression and that the terms
had been communicated to
Italy, which had cordially
approved. Also that Germany
and Italy had agreed to recog-
nise Franco as ruler of Spain.
These proceedings, like so many
others which concern the
Empire, directly or indirectly,
were decided upon regardless of
Britain. They would have been
inconceivable in days before
“the League Covenant” became
“the cornerstone of British
foreign policy.”
While Singapore is lavishing
a million sterling on a civil air-
port, Parkhill is talking about
modernising Mascot and Arcli-
erfield by spending a few thou-
sands on them. This illustrates
the scale and lines on which the
lumbering minds of the Lyons Ministry-
think.
The Commonwealth Taxation Depart-
ment is no' respecter of persons. In its
latest annual report it reveals that it
sued a knight’s widow for land tax and
an ex-Premier for income tax. Also
that if imposed a penalty of £419 on an
M.L.C. for having omitted £22,000-odd
from income as declared for six years.
Canterbury, a Sydney suburb, whose
municipality has had a stormy history,
is to spend £183,000 on “a new relief
scheme” towards which “the Govern-
ment will contribute £98,700” —whether
out of loans or unemployed-relief tax-
money is not stated. The “scheme” won’t
add a penny to the wealth of the coun-
try, nor .will it keep any relief-worker in
a permanent job ; but spending money,
however unproductively, is Stevens’s
panacea for the ills of N. S. Wales.


ONE WAY IS AS GOOD AS ANOTHER, AND SOMETIMES BETTER.
“Under British law it would be an offence to send a rocket to the moon, as liquid oxygen-petrol, banned by the Explosives Act, would have to be used. Moon-rocket
enthusiasts are trying to get the law altered.”


4
out of everi) 5 miles
i|ou drive are^
(&
tr
)»
11
STOP-AN
SAVES onTodaus STOP-and-GO Driving
PERSONAL ITEMS
justice George Rich, back from a trip
to England, where he was sworn in as a
Privy Councillor and sat with the Coun-
cil’s Judicial Committee, has resumed his
seat on the High Court Bench, of which
he is now the oldest standing and senior
member —he became a N. S. Wales
Supreme Court Judge in 1911 and went
on to the High Court in 1913. He was
made a K.C.M.G. in 1932.
H. J. Lamble, director of N. S. Wales
Government Tourist Bureau, can tell you
without a second’s hesitation anything a
traveller could want to know, from how
the fish are biting at Bermagui to the
number of steps in the Federal Pass at
Katoomba or yesterday’s temperature at
Kosciusko. He has been popularising
the State’s beauty-spots in one capacity
or another for the past 28 years. Born
at West Maitland (N-S.W.) in 1884 and
educated at the East Maitland High
School, he was with the Public Works
Department before he joined, in 1908,
what was then called the Immigration
H.J. LAMBEE.
and Tourist Bureau. Most of his early
work with the bureau had to do with
receiving immigrants and finding them
jobs. In 1916 the bureau set up its own
motor tourist business, and opened out
as a general tourist agency.
A. C. C. Holtz, who recently retired
from Melbourne “Argus” after 16 years
as g.m. and 42 years’ service, has become
the first permanent executive chairman
of the Australian Newspapers’ Confer-
ence. The “Argus,” which "used eight
lines to announce his retirement, ran a
leader-page half-column on his new
appointment.
This year’s N. S. Wales Rhodes scholar
is lan Esplin, son of a Sydney architect.
An evening student in economics at Syd-
ney University, Esplin won his blue for
rowing in 1934 and ’35, stroking the Uni.
crew in the former year.
William Webster, Littleton Groom
and Jens Jensen were members of
Hughes’s first “National” Ministry,
February 17, 1917, to January 10, 1918
(there were only seven other Ministers
besides the Little Digger). Strange that
all three should have died within seven
weeks of 1936: Webster on October 6,
Groom on November 6 and Jensen on
November 16.
Dick Windeyer, K.C., appointed an
acting Supreme Court Judge in N. S.
Wales, should know his law by heredity
alone. Charles Windeyer, born 1780, was
a reporter to the British “Law Chronicle”
and the first recognised House of Lords
Gallery pressman. He came to Sydney
in 1828, and became a police magistrate.
His son also began life as a London re-
porter, was called to the Middle Temple
Bar in 1834, practised in Sydney, was
prominent in politics and introduced the
Libel Act and other measures in the N. S.
Wales Legislative Council. The third
generation was W. C. Windeyer, educated
at The King’s School, and a foundation
student of Sydney University, Attorney-
General and Judge. Richard, of the
present generation, is his son. There are
three boys in the next generation—an
elder one killed at Passchendaele.
Jens Jensen, dead in Melbourne after
a long illness, was a Tasmanian fruit-
grower when he became Assembly mem-
ber for George Town in 1903. Six years
later he transferred to Wilmot, with
Lyons as fellow-member. In 1910 he
got in for the Bass Federal seat, and held
it for 12 years, becoming a Minister
under Fisher and Hughes. He took the
conscription side of the 1916-17 contro-
versy, and remained one of Hughes’s
Ministers until Hughes had to dismiss
him as the result of an inquiry into a
wireless transaction. Jensen lost his seat
in 1919. He had years in the Assembly
again before the finish.
Brigadier-General Bob White, who
died the other day in England, had many
Westralian mining interests a quarter of
a century ago, and latterly renewed his
connections with the Commonwealth in
his work for the Big Brother movement.
A son of Lord Annaly, he was one of
the most picturesque and adventurous
scions of the peerage; there was no
decent fight in which Britain was in-
volved from the 1884 Nile campaign to
the 1914 scrap that he did not take part
in. Even the Jameson Raid found him
present, and he was among those who
went to gaol for a little while after it.
Fred Hoskin has completed 50 years
as secretary of the Queensland Recha-
bites: he succeeded Bro. Charles Full-
wood in 1886. Rechabites of other
regions might read with a sense of cold
shock that a’ reception to honor his
jubilee had been held at the Canberra
Hotel; but the Canberra is the very
arcana of temperance in Brisbane. Not
long ago its management even objected
to liquor advertisements in telephone
books.
Big, black-haired, keen-eyed Captain
Moodie-Heddle steps down from the
bridge of the Katoomba into well-earned
retirement. For quarter of a century he
has been better known to the
travelling public than State Pre-
miers. Almost every man of note
in these parts has dined at the
captain’s table on the Katoomba
and has played deck golf with
the skipper from the Orkneys.
The Mediterranean and the Sea
of Marmora know the Katoomba
also; after the surrender of
Turkey, Captain Moodie-Heddle
navigated his ship through the
Dardanelles —the first post-war passage
and a perilous one, for Jacko was very
hazy about floating mines. There is a
good book in Captain Moodie-Heddle if
he chooses to devote part of his leisure
to writing one, And The Bulletin is
here to testify that he can write.
Some. December birthdays:
Botanist Richard Baker (Syd.), 82, knight
John Evans (Tas.), 80, artist George Bell (Vic.),
58, and authoress Helen de Guerry Simpson,
on Ist; Dr. R. W. Cilento (Director of Health,
Q’land), 43, and Judge Kelly (S.A.), 38, on
2nd; Canon Garnsey (St. Paul’s Coll., Syd.),
64, on 3rd; knight Stanley Argyle (Vic.), 69,
Dr. A. C. D. Rivett (C.5.1.R.), 51, and knight
Jas. D. Connolly (former WA Agent-Gen.),
66, on 4th; Major-Gen. John Gellibrand
(Speck), 64, and Dr. Charles Anderson (Aus-
tralian Museum, Syd.), 59, on sth; Judge
Brennan (Q’land), 52, on 6th; T. J. Hartigan
(Chief Commissioner of Railways, N.S.W.), 59,
Ernest Watt (Syd.), 62, Speck Chief Sec.
D’Alton, 41, and Archbishop Prendiville (Perth),
37, on Bth; knight John M. Higgins (Melb.),
74, Prof. T. H. Johnston (Adel.), 55, on 9th;
D’Arcy W. Addison (former Speck Agent-Gen.),
64, on 10th; Bishop Nutter Thomas (Adel.),
67, on 11th; N.S.W. Senator Hardy, 38, and
Vic. Min. of Agriculture Ned Hogan, 52, on
12th; Brig.-Gen. H. A. Goddard (London
“Times’s” Aust. rep.), 67, and authoress Dulcie
Deamer, on 13th; S.A. Chief Sec. George
Ritchie, 72, on 14th; W. Warren Kerr (Vic.
State Savings Bank Commissioner), 72, Dean
Jose (Adel.), 68, and Prof. H. J. Wilkinson
(Adel.), 45, on 15th; Dr. Cecil Purser (Syd.),
74, artist Elioth Griiner, 54, former S.A. Premier
John Gunn, 51, and Prof. H. C. Richards (Q.),
52, on 16th; Coadjutor Archbishop Sheehan
(Syd.), 66, and Rev. T. E. Ruth (Syd.), 61, on
17th; Llewellyn Atkinson (Speck), 69, S.A.
Senator Badman, 51, and poet R. J. Cassidy,
56, on 18th; J. T. Jennings, M.H.R. (Watson),
58, and Maj.-Gen. J. D. Lavarack (Chief of
General Staff), 51, on 19th; Federal Attorney-
General Menzies, 42, and knight-aviator Keith
Smith, 46, on 20th; “Texas” Green, M.H.R.
(Kalgoorlie), 67, on 21st; knight John Harvey
(former acting-CJ., N.S.W.), 71, and knight
John Butters (Syd.), 51, on 23rd; W.A. Col-
lector of Customs Bird, 58, on 25th; authors
J. H. M. Abbott, 62, and S. Elliott Napier, 66,
and Dr. Bradfield (of the Bridge), 69, on 26th;
Hugh McClelland, M.H.R. (Wimmera), 61,
painter W. Lister Lister, 77, and Bishop Hart
(Wangaratta), 70, on 27th; knight G. Mason
Allard, 70, Speck Min. for Agric. Robt. Cos-
grove, 52, and Dr. E. E. Anderson (St.
Andrew’s Coll., Syd.), 64, on 28th; Justice
Draper (W.A.), 72, knight Hubert Murray
(Lieut.-Gov. of Papua), 75, C’wealth Crown
Solicitor Sharwood, 64, and ex-Premier Theo-
dore, 52, on 29th; knight Kelso King (Syd.),
83, and Lieut.-Col. Harry Murray, V.C., 53,
on 30th; George Jackson (ex-Min. for Mines
and Works, Q’land), 81, on 31st.
The exuberant smile of Jack Lonergan
has been one of the features of Brisbane
life throughout the present century. It
was noticed first on a small, alert youth
who seemed to be always in a hurry.
Then it was shaded by a wisp of mous-
tache, which gradually became inade-
quate for its purpose as the business of
Castlemaine-Quinlan Gray brewery (now
JOHN F. LONERGAN, “XXXX.”
Castlemaine Perkins) grew and grew
and Lonergan grew with it, under
the tutelage of J. N. Devoy. Lonergan
talks liquor as art-gallery directors talk
art. He is as proud of his Queensland
XXXX as ever Michelangelo was of
any of his achievements. And if XXXX
is anything like Lonergan in sparkle, it
is assuredly a liquor for the gods.
Algernon Sydney Fitch, extra-master,
full-rigged, passed in steam, has been
down in Sydney from Papua on
his Steamships Trading Co.’s busi-
ness. Born in London in 1881, he
made his first voyage at 15 ; on
a windjammer out of Hamburg, it
took four years, and Melbourne was a
SYDNEY FITCH.
port of call. Later he worked on the
Uganda railway, served on troopships in
the Boer War and was in Government
service on the Hoogly. Then he went
to Tasmania with muscular heart trouble,
assisted in drawing up rules for the grad-
ing of apples, and had a short venture
in the Bass Strait cargo service. In 1919
he formed, with Melbourne friends, the
forerunner of the present Steamships
Trading Co., Port Moresby, and has
lived in Papua most of the time since.
He knows the coast and rivers of eastern
New Guinea like the back of his hand.
The cheery Charles Gifford, who came
to N. S. Wales as A.D.C. to Governor
Philip Game, has left for England.
Formerly a lieutenant - com-
mander in the R.N., he trans-
ferred to the R.A.F. after four
years’ war service. He gave up
his commission to come to Aus-
tralia in 1930. After his retire-
ment from Sydney Government
House he was for a time finan-
cial organiser to the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital.
The John Gilpin who passed on in
Brisbane last week was first Mayor of
the city’s seaside suburb of Sandgate, with
which he had been associated for 40
years. The Town Hall was opened dur-
ing his term. In his youth he was a
good all-round athlete ; later he was a
steward of Sandgate Jockey Club.
Two Westralians:
Forty-two years ago Newton Moore and
Claude de Bernales met at Coolgardie. Moore
was then a young surveyor working for the
Government; Dc .Bernales a colonial-experience
Johnny just out from London. Their paths
diverged widely for decades. Moore came into
money, went into politics, became Premier,
Agent-General, major-general, member of the
House of Commons and director of many com-
panies. De Bernales put all he could get
together into a mining-machinery concern,
backing mines as a sideline. He prospered for
a time, but then had many lean years till he
contrived to interest British capital in the vast
low-grade ore-bodies of Wiluna and induced
Canberra to grant a gold bonus. When the old
Coolgardie acquaintances met again in London
Moore was rich, but prematurely old and ill;
De Bernales was still youthful in appearance,
as ambitious as ever, and a power in the gold-
mining world, evidently destined to become a
millionaire. Now Moore is dead and De
Bernales succeeds him as chairman of directors
of the Great Boulder.


m
- ;;;.v
m
m
ili ilmf
oW 1
Sggs
m
■: : SSs*
FOR
rj-
s3)B
?*>
**©
to*
9*
s*<*«
/&•
M
O'
w
ps*
Ssa.«
CASH ORDER
There is a great satisfaction in making a purchase that is final. You select your
goods and whatever they may be clothes, drapery, hats, boots, etc.—you pay
your money and the transaction is finished The goods are bought and paid for.
Such is the beauty and convenience of a P. & G. Cash Order without having
the actual amount of money required, you can obtain whatever you wish to buy
from all leading City and Suburban stores with a P. & G, Cash Order.
Buy whatever you require where and when you wish with a P. & G. Cash Order.
A P. & G. Cash Order will buy whatever money will buy.
Our offices are on the 7th Floor, The Block, 428 George Street, or if preferred,
'phone MJ 4371 (8 lines).
Call and discuss with us our easy system of weekly out of income repayment.
If a P. & G. Cash Order will not meet you: requirements, P. & G. can accommodate
you with a Cash Loan.
PHONE
M J 4371
(8 Lines)
dsf
P. & G. Cash Orders are
accepted by leading City
Retailers and Department
Stores also by 800
Suburban Retailers.
Producers
7th floor
& General Finance Corporation Limited
Authorised Capital £900,000.
THE BLOCK 428 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
I9PG6


Your Will may be
“void for uncertainty”
a
Home-made wills, printed will forms,
carelessly drawn wills, all are pos-
sible sources of long litigation and
the defeat of the testator’s intentions.
Read your will now, take it to your
solicitor, and have it revised by him in justice to
your family and beneficiaries. Your action may
be the means of preventing not only costly liti-
gation, but absolute hardship.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us,
we will be glad to discuss with you and your
solicitor, the important aspects of practical
administration of your estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.\y. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W, D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
The Mutual Life and Citizens ,
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedv,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’26. .396,104 12J p.c.=304,687 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 124 „ ~ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27. .424,353 124 „ „ 304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 805,475
Sept., ’27. .476,516 124 p.c.=365,625 110,891 916,360
Alar., ’2B. .490,112 12* „ „ 365,625 124,487 1,040,853
Sept.,’2B. .469,157 12* „ „ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
Alar., ’29. .507,149 12* „ „ 365,625 141,524 1,285,909
Sept., ’29. .465,492 12* „ „ 365,625 99,867 1,385,776
Alar., ’3O. .445,337 12* „ „ 365,625 79,712 1,465,488
Septt, ’30..350,727 12* „„ 365,625 1,450,590
Mar., ’3l. .384,097 12* „ „ 365,625 18,472 1,469,062
Sept., ’3l. .373,812 124 », 365,625 8,187 1,477,249
Mar., ’32. .370,509 12* „ „ 365,625 4,884 1,482,133
Sept.,’32. .370,291 12* „ „ 365,625 4,666 1,480,799
Mar., ’33. .422,123 12* „ „ 365,625 56,498 1,543,297
Sept., ’33. .408,112 12* „ „ 365,625 102,487 1,645,784
Mar., ’34. .495,389 124 „ >, 365,625 129,764 1,775,548
Transferred to reserves, £883,000 .. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564 .. 6,616,112
Sept., ’34. .444,782 124 p.c.=3G5,625 79,157 6,695,269
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 .. 845,269
Reserves disappear, £57,564 .. 787,705
Mar., ’35..487,167 0J p.c-365,625 121,542 909,247
Sept.,’3s. .443,007 74t „„ 611,875 840,439
Mar., ’36..494,913 6i „ „ 305,025 129,288 969,727
Sept.,’36. .489,420 Gi „ „ 365,625 123,795 1,093,522
* Exclusive of replacement and depreciation fund.
1 Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus issue.
The co. has such a gilded history and
the business is so well entrenched, finan-
cially and otherwise, that the market,
seeing the glow of the past reflected into
the future, prices the fully-paid £2O
shares at £43 15s. as against £4l 15s. six
months ago. The return at £43 15s. is
2.8 p.c., or about 1 p.c. less than can be
had from the purchase of Government
securities. The investor who. looks for a
shade over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 9 p.c. div., which, according to the
published figures, is not yet in sight.
Following the last issue of bonus scrip
(£5,850,000, one for one, in Nov., 1934),
the declared intention was to continue
distributing the same amount in divi-
dends, The rate of div. was therefore cut
in halves, making it p.c. For the 12
months to the end of September, de-
clared net earnings sprang £54,099, reach-
ing £984,333, or 8.4 p.c. on capital,
thanks largely to increased production
in Australia and Fiji (due to seasonal
conditions) and better consumption of
fines in Australia and Maoriland. That
was after £225,178 net dropped from
somewhere into the depreciation and re-
newal fund, raising it to £3,355,113.
Roughly half the co.’s profits are de-
rived from the sugar industry in Aus-
tralia, mainly as commission, etc., for
refining, selling and financing the crop ;
the balance comes from growing and
milling in Fiji, refining in Maoriland and
from a wad of investments outside the
business. In Australia, the co.’s contract
with the Government is to be renewed
for another five years from the end of
1936, while Empire preference has taken
a lot of the sting out of the low price
of sugar in the world’s open markets.
As for the current season, prospects
are for a record outturn of raws in both
Australia and Fiji. The co. has had to
increase the capacity of its Chelsea
(M.L.) refinery on account of the shorter
working week (40 hours), and the Lau-
toka mill (Fiji), to which extensive altera-
tions have been made, is giving results
“up to expectations.” Also, in Fiji the co.
has bought the assets of two small con-
cerns which had attempted the growing
and canning of pineapples, but failed
through lack of capital. It is hoped to
carry out the first canning before 1938,
and markets appear to be assured in the
U.K. and Canada ; much depends upon
how this new industry turns out. The
subsidiary formed to manufacture fibre
board from megass in Queensland is
“overcoming initial difficulties.”
The solidness of the financial struc-
ture is seen in the following table:
1934. 1935. ' 1936.
Paid capital .. £5,850,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 795,697 743,710 862,954
Suspense accounts 2,337,375 2,383,931 2,337,678
Depreciation funds 3,029,038 3,129,935 3,355,113
Employees’ funds 40,780 50,581 38,745
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,075,358 10,230,358 10,283,539
Ocean steamers,
etc 142,118 142,118 142,118
Distillery .. 177,200 , 177,497 184,045
Office premises 56,011 56,027 57,029
Stocks, etc. .. 2,460,676 2,461,817 3,529,465
Book debts .. 3,865,873 3,168,411 3,090,541
Cash, . deposits,
etc 2,342,549 3,124,244 2,460,899
To add £53,181 to the book value of
refineries, etc., and carry an extra
£1,067,648 of stocks, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £657,345, book debts
were reduced by £77,870, and the amount
coming to sundry creditors was increased
by £119,244. What catches the eye is
the fine pile of liquids. Taking suspense
accounts (down £46,253 —they are largely
provision for contingencies in excess of
immediate requirements) and employees’
funds into the reckoning, more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities by £5,847,528
when the books closed, an improvement
of £271,278 over the twelvemonth.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
Scpt., Profit. 6* p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926. .191,858 8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
1927. .201,194 8125 23 „ ~126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 25* „ ~140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 „ ~154,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 26,647
1930. .223,578 8125 22 59,086 85,733
1931. .147,934 8125 9„ „ 98,316 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 .. .. 75,226
1932. .191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148,206
1933. .182,118 8125 10 ~,,110,000 63,993 212,199
1934. .186,748 8125 10 ~,,110,000 68,623 280.822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £366,139.. 85,317
1935. .209.707 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 ), n „
Written off, £41,031.. . .j 50 ’ 651 d4 ’ 766
Reserves.
1936. .226 529 8125 12 p c =182,000 j 45 2gl 10 , 5 25
Written off, £41,113.. . .j ’
Again the board has a pleasing tale to
unfold. All the co.’s own publications (a
round dozen) continue to make progress ;
better returns have been obtained from
investments (shares in other cos. figure
at £337,840), which embrace a string of
daily and other journals in all the Aus-
tralian capitals except Sydney and
Hobart; the co.’s broadcasting service
(3DB), which has proved “a valuable
adjunct,” has been extended by erection
of a relay station in the north-west dis-
trict ; additions and improvements have
been made to plant, claimed to be the
largest of its kind in the Dominions,
keeping it abreast of modern develop-
ments, to the benefit of both circulation
and costs ; and final proposals, including
financial arrangements, for the manufac-
ture of newsprint at Boyer, on the Der-
went (Tas.), are under discussion with
other newspaper proprietaries, etc. In
Melbourne, circulation of the “Herald,”
the backbone of the business, substan-
tially increased following the demise in
April last of its short-lived evening com-
petitor the “Star,” while circulation
of the “Sun” is claimed to be greater
than the combined circulations of its
two morning contemporaries.
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
(£366,258) was £22,873. Exes. (£139,729)
took only £6052 of the increase, leaving
enough to pay the small pref. div.
(£8125) and show 19.8 p.c. on the
£1,100,000 of ord. capital as against 18.1,
16.2, 15.8, 16.6, 12.7 and 30.3 p.c. back
to 1930, when the last lot of bonus
scrip (£275,000, one for two) was handed
out. The div., which dropped from 22
p.c. in 1930 to 9 p.c. in the following
year, was lifted to 10 p.c. in ’32, and re-
mained steady until the last term, when
another 2 p.c. was added, making 12 p.c.
for the year.
The board wrote the year’s net profit
£16,740 better at £185,416, or sufficient
to pay the pref. div. and show 16.1 p.c.
on ord. capital. That was after openly
allowing £41,113 for depreciation, which
has been included with profits in the
table and then shown as written off —
according to the co.’s 1927 report, visible
allowances were “in excess of normal
provision for depreciation,” and the co.’s
history confirms the statement.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows: —•
1920. 1931. 1935. 1936.
-Stock ..£108,087 £104,679 £149,719 £150,729
Debtors, etc. 56,890 89,116 198,207 214,911
War Loans 70,389 -
Shares in
other cos. 100 478,315 348,738 337,840
Cash .. 27,621 92,172 13,741 39,556
Liquids. . £263,087 £764,282 £710,405 £743,036
Liabilities 91,782 103,657 165,875 138,496
Surplus. . £171,305 £660,625 £544,530 £604,540
Freeholds,
etc. . . 73,645 331,711 420,215 421,364
Machinery
and plant 45,796 445,513 314,315 320,721
Net assets £290,746 £1,437,849 £1,279,060 £1,346,625
A reduction of £10,898 in shares in other
cos. was accompanied by a growth of
£25,815 in cash, etc., £16,704 in debtors’
balances and £lOlO in stocks. Exclud-
ing shareholdings, the improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£266,700)
was £70,908. The net addition to the
book value of plant was £6406.
Prospects are for an even better show-
ing at next balance. The market notes
this, and prices the fully-paid pound
ords. at 665. 6d., at which figure the
return is 3.6 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis,
of 4.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution,
which is already within reach. The
prefs. at 295. return 4.5 p.c. Visibly the
net tangible cover is £9 17s. Bd. prefs.
and 20s. 2d. ords. Goodwill figures at
£250,000.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends \
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 7* p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1926.. 67,826 12.000 13,125 25.000 5,126 198,924
1927.. 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5,668 210,287
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930.. 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,838
1933.. 29,071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000* Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 f Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
* Half-year ended 15/2/’3l. t Year to 15/2/’32.
When slump changed the outlook, this
big drapery and furnishing house, which
trades mainly on a t.-p. basis, was carry-
ing over half a million of book debts ;
the subsidiaries (shareholdings figure at
£312,900) ceased to contribute to the
pool, the co. had gone a bit into debt
to finance erection of a fine new store
in Railway-square, and for a while the
old premises (now let) were a drag. For
the three years to the close of accounts
in 1933, losses aggregated £138,232.
Then the tide turned, and sales have in-
creased and profits have shown up each
year since.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, gross earnings (£95,245)
were £2564 better. Including the allow-
ance for depreciation, shown as written
off in the table, exes. (£51,565) were
£3255 heavier, leaving the net res;ult
£691 lighter at £43,681, or enough to
cover a full year's pref. divs. (£32,237)
and show 2.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
Still, it is difficult to say when the
ords. are likely to get into the picture.
The £1,035,895 of capital is in 300,000
first 6 p.c. and 297,848 second 74 p.c.
cum. prefs. (both subject to 224 P-C-
-statutory cut from Oct. 1, 1931) and
439,580 ords. After allowing for de-
preciation, net earnings over the last
three years total £99,829, or more than
sufficient to bring payments to the first
prefs. up to date. But money has been
wanted in the business, so only £25,940,
covering the 18 months to Feb. 15,
1932, has been handed to the firsts, leav-
ing £82,500 (ss. 6d. per share) still to
come at next balance. In addition, there
will then be £104,000 accrued on the
second prefs. '
The firsts at 18s. yield 5.5 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis, plus arrears. The
seconds are priced at 135., and the ords.
at 7s. 7d. The net tangible cover (book
value) is £3 17s. 9d. firsts, £2 18s. 2d.
seconds and 255. 1 Id. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1921. 1930. 1935. 1930.
£ x, £ £
Paid capital.. 525,000 1,035,077 1,035,401 1,035,895
Mortgages . . 57,500 287,500 480,831 534,807
Other debts. . 311,874 304,195 128,782 115,192
Freeholds .. 154,758 500,889 599,194 050,012
Leaseholds . . 05,677 59,970 28,853 3,620
Plant, etc... 24,080 91,418 74,272 70,412
Stocks . . 320,325 240,584 101,035 180,273
Book debts.. 337,177 505,325 573,339 590,931
Shares in
other COS... 119,689 310.519 312,900 312,900
Cash, etc. . . 35,234 6,447 7,689 9,089
During the. year, the co. bought the
freehold of some properties previously
held on a 50 years’ lease from the City
Council. The net addition to the book
value of freeholds was £57,418 ; lease-
holds were, down £25,227, and an extra
£53,976 was raised on mortgage. The
amount coming to trade creditors was
reduced by £13,590, while £19,238 was
added to stocks and £17,592 to debtors’
balances. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£130,294, includ-
ing stocks but not shares in other cos.)
was £2156. Shareholdings, not worth
their book value on the market, consist
mostly of the ords. in Bon Marche and
Marcus Clark (Vic.)—the last-named
controls Craig Williamson (Melb.) and
Miller Anderson (Adelaide) —and carry
a contingent liability of £30,000 in re-
spect of uncalled capital.
Australasian Catholic Assurance (Sydney)
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 50,253 1524 28,963 19,766 30,404
1927.. 64,430 1739 33,764 28,927 59,331
1928 84,900 3333 42,308 39,259 98,590
1929.. 114,290 4582 56,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 225.371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.c.i) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
1932.. 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,384 t 376,254
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 t 376,264
1934 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 f 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 f 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £O5 .. 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 t 768,573
*Net funds apart from capital.
I After paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
This is an example of what can be done
by a young life office if the promoters
and management go the right way about
things. The business was set on its feet
by E. J. Mooney, its managing director,
in 1921. He gathered only £14,610 of
share capital—there are 15,135 7 p.c.
prefs. and 19,895 ords., all of 10s. each,
paid to 8s. —and at June 30 last had
built up a volume of solid revenue-pro-
ducing assets with a book value of
£830,431, of which no more than £24,368
was coming to sundry creditors. The
life fund figured at £754,791 ; other re-
serves totalled £36,663. Meanwhile, the
business has spread to Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide and Perth and, of course,
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


f
AVdrm friend
ond .
Hoi- Ddy ...
EEDOL
im
sWW
>*' N \
rf / /F\\\
X "\
/ i fr* NY J
Mi
V;M>*
MOTOR OIL
A T normal speeds and temperatures, you will
experience little motor oil trouble But
when your speedometer and Mr. Mercury both
start hitting the high spots, make sure INDE-
STRUCTIBLE VEEDOL is on the job.
VEEDOL’S Famous “Film of Protection” cools
the heat and speed that causes most motor oils
to break down and burn up. Change to VEEDOL.
the warm weather friend of millions of motor-
ists. Sold the world over at no extra cost. “You
can’t break it down.” ~
NEPTUNE Oi L COMPANY LIMITED
MIbTATtS r
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:—
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43,353
Within' a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
(Estimated average daily circulation for six
months' period ended September, 1936, 69,750.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue Now on Sale.
FIXED TRUSTS
TUNG OIL
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
SEARCH FOR PETROLEUM
THE METAL MARKETS
Vnhr^ 2/f ' PER COPY > OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
15 6d by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Commonwealth
Loan
Loan opens 26th Nov.,
1936, and closes not
later than 11th Dec.,
1936.
The Treasurer reserves the right to close at an
earlier date and partially to allot subscriptions.
Interest
Price of Issue £97/10/-
Annual Yield £3/19/4%
Applications will be received by any Bank,
Savings Bank or Money Order Post Office, or by
member of any recognised Australian Stock Exchange.
Proceeds of the Loan will be used for Public
Works of the Commonwealth and States and for other
purposes.
Subscriptions may be paid in full or by in-
stalments up to Ist April, 1937. Interest will be
paid on 15th May and 15th November of each year.
The loan is an authorised trustee investment under
the Trustees Acts of all States.
Sinking Fund contributions at the rate of
not less than 10/- per centum per annum will be
paid into the National Debt Sinking Fund.
Banks will not charge exchange on cheques in
payment into the loan.
Repayment of the loan at par will be made on
15th November, 1951.
The loan is issued under the authority of the
Australian Loan Council, and is secured as to both
principal and interest upon the Consolidated Revenue
Fund of the Commonwealth.
Interest will not be subject to:
(a) State Income Tax;
(b) Commonwealth Super Tax on property; or
(c) Commonwealth Income Tax to a greater ex-
tent than that imposed by the income Tax
Acts 1930.
APPLY EARLY
Amount asked for
£7,500,000
COMMONWEALTH TREASURY,
CANBERRA, F.C.T.
TREASURER.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD.
For the Quarter ended 30th September, 1936.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.H.W.: If safety is the first consideration,
look the other way....J.H.: Regular bonuses
to policy-holders not yet in sight J.W.H.:
(l) Bank of N. S. Wales and Herald and
Weekly Times are worth consideration. (2)
H01d... .L.F.: Prospects doubtful J. 8.: A
gamble at Is. 2d. (
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
"* * * *
DAVIES' & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
-** * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest- Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * =:< *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Ilounsfield
“TENS'OMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street. Sydney.— Advt.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR"
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
continues to grow. Regular and increas-
ing bonuses (now at the satisfactory rate
of 525. 6d. p.c. p.a. on whole-of-life and
355. p.c. p.a. on endowment) are paid to
policy-holders, whose interests have been
placed in the foreground. Shareholders
are in the picture with a 7 p.c. div., with
prospects of much better later on.
Among the factors responsible for the
co.’s success have been a tight hold upon
exes., much care in the selection of busi-
ness —there was no expensive rush to in-,
discriminately write big wads of new
business, and, therefore, no crippling
avalanche of lapses—and discrimi-
nation with regard to investments (thus
far, largely first mortgages), which have
brought in good returns.
During the last term, an extra £41,915
of life premiums (£218,706) was gathered.
Fire and accident premiums, etc. (£2555),
were down £ll2, and interest and rents
(£30,770) were £714 lighter—owing to
new building operations a lot of money
was temporarily not earning anything.
Claims were £7923 heavier. Excluding
taxes (£1492, down £1099), exes, took
37.5 p.c. of net premium income as
against 35.7 p.c. for the previous term.
After deducting taxes, the effective net
interest return on total funds was 3.8
p.c. as against 4.6 p.c. in 1935. The
effective net rate on the Life, fund alone
was 4.3 p.c. The co. assumes that its
Life fund will turn in only 31 p.c. net.
The margin from this source, from which
the co. scores heavily, can be expected
to widen now that the. new headquarters,
at the corner of King and York streets,
Sydney, and the new Melbourne and re-
cently acquired Brisbane premises are
complete and mostly let.
The year’s net addition to the book
value of freeholds was £195,674:
1927. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. . . £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* . . 672 4,935 14,999 24,368
Mortgages .. .. 43,138, 207,775 309,891 301,450
Govt, securities .. 25,758 26,716 131,408 67,544
Cash, etc. .. 1,320 1,327 13,506 8,036
Debtors .. . . 466 1,788 2,008 2,931
Loans on policies 154 3,251 31,042 39,345
Kquipment . . 2,727 4,696 4,668 5,526
Shares in other cos. 1,050 1,682 3,388 3,437
Freeholds . . .. 206,488 402,102
* Other than under policies.
To meet the outlay and increase loans
on policies by £8303, Government securi-
ties were reduced by £63,864, mortgages
by £8441, cash, etc., by £5470 and £9369
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors. The co. now owns its
own premises in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane, and, when opportunity offers,
it intends to buy properties in Adelaide
and Perth.
Mt. Morgan
During the 12 months to June 30, Mt.
Morgan treated an extra 82,149 tons of
ore for a profit of £104,962 (down
£5471). Total revenue (£390,821) was
£42,922 better, but exes. (£285,860) were
£48,393 heavier. Divs. totalled £127,600,
or 55 p.c. An extra £40,071 of share
capital (making paid capital £272,071)
and £66,055 of share premiums were
gathered. Capital expenditure on recon-
ditioning and installing plant was £38,569,
new machinery £22,876 and mine prepara-
tion £19,815. Share premiums lifted the
reserve on that account to £162,468, of
which £67,024 was used to write down
the book value of plant, etc., no charge
for depreciation being made against
earnings. When the books closed, the
mine figured at £53,420 (down £1000);
plant, £134,592 (up £64,538); cash and
Consols, £120,394 (down £35,069); other
more or less liquids, £132,406 (up
£39,082). Creditors and suspense ac-
counts total £13,431.
The assay value of ore treated was
lower in gold and higher in copper.
Here is a tabulated analysis of perform-
ances of the concentration plant over the
last three years:
1934. 193.’.. 1936.
Ore treated, tons .. 153,280 177,750 2.79,929
Grade: Gold, dwt. 5.9 5.8 4.2
Copper, p.c. 0.4 0.5 O.C
Concentrate, tons .. 5,797 0,266 9,538
Grade: Gold, dwt. 104.8 108.0 73.9
C’-opper, p.c. 8.7 13.5 15.8
Gold produced, 0r.... 30,392 33,832 35,618
Copper produced, tons 504 844 1,513
Recovery: Gold, p.c. 66.8’. 65.7 64.4
Copper, p.c. 83.0 87.8 86.7
Ratio concentration.. 26.4 28.3 27.2
Of the feed put through, over 42 p.c. was
overburden from outside measured ore
reserves. Notwithstanding introduction
of a 40-hour week, plus a 10 p.c. rise
in the hourly wage rate in Dec. last,
costs were 3s. 1.33 d. per ton lighter at
14s. 11.38 d.—mining ss. 10.93 d., treat-
ment 9s. o.4sd.—and they are likely to
be further reduced when all the new
equipment is in full swing.
Ore reserves are figured at 7,506,652
tons sulphides, assaying 4.26dwt. gold
and 1.77 p.c. copper, and 1,500,000 lons,
oxides, assaying 2.7dwt. gold.
The concentrating section, now com-
plete, is capable of treating up to 30,000
tons of ore per month. To further reduce
costs and provide additional power for
the new oxidised-ore treatment mill
(capacity 800 tons per day), scheduled to
start up this month, a new turbo set and
pulverised-fuel boiler unit have been in-
stalled. This plant is expected to treat
oxidised ore at a profit of 10s. per ton.
Also, the new equipment is expected to
eliminate more of the loss in the tailings.
Declaration of dividends has been sus-
pended until the new plant is success-
fully operating at capacity. The last
quarterly div. was at the rate of 60 p.c.
p.a. The market prices the fully-paid
2s. 6d. shares at 16s.
Oil Search, Ltd., is offering 372,847
new ss. shares at par. The money is
wanted to further prospect some 25,000
sq. miles of likely oil-bearing country,
held under permit, in the Gulf and Delta
divisions of New Guinea. Permits over
large adjoining areas have been granted
to the Papua Oil Development and
Island Exploration cos., offshoots of the
Shell and Vacuum Oil cos. respectively.
The Federal Petroleum Oil Search Act
of 1936 has given a fresh impetus to the
hunt for oil in Australia and New
Guinea. In this way the Government
has made available a sum of £250,000 to
be advanced to approved organisations
on a £-for-£ basis to assist drilling for
oil and natural gas. Permits are renew-
able annually, subject to expenditure and
achievements in the way of geological in-
vestigations. Geological investigations
carried out in New Guinea by the Anglo -
Persian Oil Co. prior to 1930 covered
less than 10,000 sq. miles, of which less
than 1000 sq. miles was examined in
detail. The work initiated by Anglo-
Persian’s geologists has been continued
by Oil Search, Ltd., and is now claimed
to have reached a decisive stage. The,
offer of a Federal subsidy is largely the
outcome of work done by Oil Search in
New Guinea and Australia, and the con-
sequent accumulation of fresh data.
•f* * * *
Vees United has taken three months’
option over the, Ravenswood (N.Q.)
mines held by the Himalaya and Mar-
garet cos. If considered worth while, a
new co., with a capital of £25,000
(196,000 shares of 2s. 6d. and 40,000 de-
ferred shares of 3d.), is to be formed to
take over and develop the properties.
Vendors’ consideration is £5OOO in fully-
paids, plus £5OO cash from gold won.
Vees United will take £5OOO worth of
contribs., and receive 40,000 deferred
shares as payment for examining and
testing the mines.
* * * *
Rich returns are being obtained from
some of the mines at Lolworth Creek,
Charters Towers (N.Q.). The most suc-
cessful is Congdon s Midas, where 130
tons recently returned 160 oz. gold, ex-
clusive of concentrates. The main shatt
is down 120 ft., and the ore-body shows
no signs of petering out. At the
Mons Megs, 166 tons yielded 680 z.,
with sands to come. Near by an aban-
doned show, the Tin Dish, has been re-
opened. Early crushings averaged only a
few ’weights, but a lode of hard mineral
stone, assaying over 50z., has been
located at 30ft.
* * * *
Failure of the New Captain, at Mill-
chester Creek, Charters Towers (N.Q.),
gave shareholders a shock. Several
crushings averaging 20z., exclusive ot
sands, were obtained from the show,
which was expected to develop into some-
thing big. But at 60ft. the reef suddenly
pinched out, an influx of water followed
and the show has been abandoned.
* <= * *
Sulphide Gold (Junction Reefs) is giv-
ing new plant a trial run on its Belubula
River property, Lyndhurst (N.S.W.). For
the six months to June 30 £7410 was
spent on plant and £3089 on develop-
ment. To meet the outlay 227,500 20
p.c. 2s. cum. prefs. were issued, and
mostly left on the hands of the under-
writer, Mt. Morgan Developments, Ltd.
At the end of June, £11,478 had been
gathered from the issue, and the balance
has since come in. Also, the board has
arranged for a £4OOO loan from the
Mines Department. A low-grade proposi-
tion, the leases compose flat bedlike
bodies of complex ore up to 20ft. thick,
in folding slates. Twelve months ago re-
serves were put at 233,400 tons, of which
53,000 tons went 6dwt. When the books
closed expenditure on development
amounted to £6383 ; plant was valued at
£20,388 and the leases at £30,283.
* * * •>
Beechworth Alluvials is issuing those
on the register at Nov. 27 43,700 new
2s. 6d. shares at par, one for two. The
co. holds some 7000 acres of alluvials
on the Ovens (Vic.) and its tributaries, on
the Buckland and at Morse’s Creek —
this apart from its interest in Reedy
Creek Alluvials, which it recently floated
to take over 5U million c.y. of alluvials
at Beechworth. Negotiations are also
proceeding for Tronah Mines, of Lon-
don, to test portion of the co.’s proper-
ties. If values are right it is hoped to
subdivide the Buckland holding into three
dredging areas. The co. has extended its
option to Clutha Development over
60,000,000 c.y. at Harrietville to Feb. 25,
and has also granted Clutha a fresh
option over 475 acres at Freeburgh.
Combined purchase consideration is
20 p.c. of the issued capital (mini-
mum £400,000) in any co. formed
to work the areas (one-half cash, the rest
in fully-paids), plus a par option over
contributing shares to a nominal value
of £40,000.
*** " ' *
For the six months to July 31, De-
borah, Bendigo (Vic.), gathered £9171, of
which mine and office exes, took £5655,
leaving a profit of £3516. Interest centres
on the 915 ft. level, where development
has yielded 2000 tons of lOdwt. ore;
indications are that the auriferous zone
continues below this level. The ore-body
on the east side of the anticline has been
proved payable for a length of 600 ft.,
and, by two rises, to a height of 60ft.
The shaft has been sunk to 1030 ft., and
a plat cut at the 1000 ft. level has inter-
sected a 2in. spur which it is hoped will
broaden into a payable ore-body. A
large tonnage of auriferous ore is also
looked for between the 815 ft. and 1100 ft.
levels. To work an area south of the
co.’s holding not conveniently got at
from the main shaft, a new company may
be thrown off. At balance date current
assets aggregated £8050; creditors, £1724.
In ils initial three months’ operations
to October, Mt. Paris Tin, Branxholm
(Tas.), sluiced 82,500 c.y. (mostly outside
the bored section) for 22 tons t.o. Costs
totalled £1823, monthly averages per yard
being 4.2 d., sd. and 7d. respectively. A
faulty pipeline caused frequent stop-
pages ; when this has been remedied and
stone shed from the greisen pinnacle re-
moved —the latter was responsible for
bumping up the October figures —costs
are not expected' to exceed 4d. a yard.
The prospectus figured that the lease con-
tained 2,000,000 c.y. of 21b. dirt. With
the metal fetching £2OO a ton, and costs
at Bd. a yard, profits were put at
£400,000. Four terraces have been
opened up, the most promising area
(1,500,000 c.y.) being between the 1560 ft.
and 1720 ft. contours. At July 31 mine
development account stood at £41,46),
mining and water rights at £48,000 and
cash, etc., at £21,799. Shareholders’ funds
totalled £120,634, while outsiders were
owed £290. Preliminary exes, were in at
£9664.
* * * *
During the year to June 30, London-
controlled Lake View and Star, Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), extracted 584,056 tons
of ore, 569,666 tons on its own account
and 14,390 tons on behalf of tribulors.
Extraction was 86.06 p.c., total recovery
being worth £642,734, an average of
25.535.' per ton. Costs (20s. 7.58 d.) were
10.73 d. lower, owing mainly to the
smaller amount of development done
and the closing-down of the old Asso-
ciated oxidised-ore treatment plant. Ore
reserves are 161,300 tons higher •at
3,197,200 tons —2,052,800 tons positive,
684,000 tons probable and 280,400 tons
broken —but the grade (25.03 s at
£4 ssi an ounce) is down 1.835., due to
the inclusion of low-grade ore developed
in the Chaffers and Associated properties.
On the latter, the retreatment plant
(capacity 60,000 tons monthly) put
through 605,737 tons of tailings for gold
worth £68,914. Values averaged 4.455.,
’ and the recovery was 51.2 p.c. All values
are in sterling. In the Chaffers and
Horseshoe sections, development has
opened up good lengths of payable ore ;
driving’on minor lodes in the same areas
has also given promising results.
I ** * *
New Golconda and Lake Austin, next-
door neighbors on the Murchison gold-
field (W.A.), struggle on. The former
has commenced crushing in a small way,
and hopes to earn sufficient to cover the
cost of development. Divs., if any, are
not yet in sight. Lake Austin claims to
have struck a small rich shoot which
is “increasing in size.” A crushing is to
be put through a public battery shortly.
The directors, “not wishing to overesti-
mate the value of the shoot,” state that
past records of the mine indicate that
substantial returns are obtained when
such gold-carriers are found.


V
mm
m
m
m
1
I
m
m
m
3>i
1
m
M
»*
:
m
m
SMi
m
m
When you get down to hard facts, you’ll find that TRACTION
is the big factor in making your tractor earn the most
for you.
Good traction means faster work, more high-gear work,
more acres a day, more kinds of work, more drawbar
pull meaning savings in fuel, oil, labor, time.
And you get the BEST traction when your tractor rolls
on Goodyear Farm Tractor Tyres —the All-Weather
tread grips just as hard forward, backward or tilted
on side-of-hill work
EASY Goodyear Farm Tractor Tyres and
TERMS ! Wheels are available on Hire Pur-
chase Terms. For full particulars write to the
Goodyear Branch (in all capital cities).
I
4
K
TRACTOR
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
9S-6ZO-OI


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Nordbo” : Angelo and Antonio, cane-
farmers of N.Q., saw no reason to pay
the butcher good money when ibises were
good to eat and easy to shoot —army
corps of the birds followed in the fur-
row behind the plough daily. But while
they were successful in putting the ibises
in the pot, neighbors succeeded in put-
ting the Italian pot on, and the magis-
trate fined them £2O each. That is why
Angelo and Antonio raise their hats
whenever they pass an ibis, and many
people who have witnessed these gestures
of respect and whipped their brains to
discover the reason will now understand.
He sfc * ♦
“Salmon Gums”: A Westralian cauli-
flower-grower whose produce usually
tops the market discovered as the crop
matured that a fair percentage of the
flowers were a bright orange color. The
pigment permeated the entire “white”
portions of the plant, including the
stalk, while the leaves remained normal.
The growth was not affected, and the
flavor was quite natural, but' the vege-
table didn’t take on in the market until
a retailer with a head bought the entire
crop of “Golden Glories,” as he termed
them. The color, he assured his cus-
tomers, was due to the liberal inclusion
of butter in each application of fer-
tiliser, which, in addition to producing
a beautiful, appetising appearance, ob-
viated the use of butter or sauce when
serving. The supply fell far short of
the demand. The customers were unani-
mous —you could taste the butter in
them! The true explanation was that
the seed had been inoculated from a
bed of swede-turnips, which, being of
the same family as the cauliflower,
would cross readily.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: “Silica’s” pros-
pector who wrote his grocery order on
pine board with red-hot wire (B.
4/11 /’36) had nothing on one of our
local cockies. He sent a dozen cows to
the saleyards with a rouseabout in
charge, and to guard against mistakes
printed his bedrock price with a tar-
brush in figures a foot high on each
animal.
* # * *
“C.J.R.”: I hadn’t seen Mick, an old
trapper mate, for years until I bumped
into him in a pub at the two Waggas.
He seemed a bit different somehow ; then
I noticed what was wrong—his long nose
was smashed. “Cripes, Mick,” I said,
“what happened to the bugle?” He
put down his mug and grinned ruefully.
“Got it busted. Damn’ easy, too, an’
for doin’ nothing at all. Aw, well,
when I say nothin’ I mean Well, it
was like this: I was on the beer in a
Goulburn pub one day an’ an old coot
with a long flowin’ beard came in just
as I’d finished lightin’ me pipe. Well,
just for fun I stuck the match in the
ziff, an’, damn me, when the old
cow got the fire out, if he* don’t haul
off an’ belt me one on the nose. Can
you beat it?” he asked plaintively. I
couldn’t.
* * * *
“Top Rail”: Is there anything in bee-
stings conducive to mortal eccentricity,
or is beekeeping a game that specially
attracts eccentrics, or have I just had un-
usual experience among the fraternity?
The fact stands that of seven beekeepers
I have known five were sufficiently out
of the normal run to be identities in their
various localities, and I didn’t know the
other two very well. Still, of the five
two struck me as considerably more in-
telligent than their critics. Of the other
three, disappointed love was held respon-
sible for one’s habit of dressing his
several horses and cows in red flannel,
and for another’s fancy for sleeping on
a box-bed of finely-cracked blue metal;
the third expressed in four-column letters
to the local editor his failure to recover
from a distant bankruptcy. At any rate,
they were well off the rails, and my
theory that the cumulative effect of bee-
sting poisoning put them there is not
shaken by the inconsequential fact that
I myself was at one time a beekeeper.
* * * *
“Currency Lad”: It’s a curious
thought that when our short history is
surveyed practically all the massacres,
mass poisonings, etc., inflicted on the
aboriginals are found to have been the
work, not of Australians, but of trans-
planted English, Scotch and Irish. Yet
native-born Australians in the eyes of
other peoples carry the. stigma still. Can
anyone point to a big killing committed
by any party of native-born whites? I
have noticed that the native-born has
refrained from killing even when the
“ Cobber , I like the look o’ y'. Man after me own ’eart . Cumanavanother.
provocation has been considerable. Such
thoughts are conjured up by the reading
of All That Swagger, the work of a
native-born. It is the first book I have
ever struck in which the aboriginal is
analysed as a human being and given
credit for gratitude and humanity,
though our history is full of incidents
where abos. displayed just those quali-
ties. No, there’s another book, All-
About, also the work of the native-born.
* * * *
“C. G. Salis”: “Spare Walton” is right
when he says trout are “pampered be-
yond all reason for the sake of a few
alleged sportsmen” (B. 21 /10/’36), but
the “sportsmen” are pampered even
more. At the trout hatcheries on the
Cotter (F.C.T.) trout are bred and re-
tained in the pools until they have
reached the size at which they may
legally be taken. Then they are released
in the stream for “sportsmen” to catch.
While they are in the pools they are
fed daily, and are quite accustomed to
the presence of human beings. I speared
a fly on the end of a straw and, flicking
it over the water, could raise half a
dozen trout at a time ; the shoal even
followed me round the edge. I had
always believed that infinite care had
to be exercised by the angler in order
that the trout should not be scared away.
You couldn’t scare those beggars with
anything less than a gun. What a har-
vest Canberra “sports” must gather after
a fresh lot of trout are released.
* * * *
“No 1” • Any reasonable explanation
as to why fish will eo off one brand of
* , • f f CP , snn
tucker m favor of another from season
to season, sometimes from week to week ?
In years of surf-fishing Ive frequemy
noticed that on a beach where bream will
come at nothing but seaworms one day
they'll scorn the worms and have on only
pipis on another, and vice versa, bame
thing applies to whiting, jewfish and any
other fish worth hauling out of the surf,
and to any sort of bait. Also, why can
fish be caught in one place with bait the
same sort of fish decline in another? In-
stance that ready hook-grabber the school
jew. In the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) prawns
are first-class bait for him, as for most
other fish in that stream ; yet in rivers
further up the coast school jew won’t
look at a prawn if seaworms are on the
menu -
*** . *
“C.V.S. : Red and gritty, the dust
settled on all things, reducing their
original colors to a uniform sombre hue.
It got into his eyes, his hair ; it made
his head itchy and his body uncom-
fortable. Those parts of his clothes that
had once been while were now taking
on a khaki tint. His boots were the
color of old rust, and underneath, when
he removed his socks, his feet No,
he wasn’t a struggling wheatgrower at
the plough ; only the reclasser in a Mel-
bourne woolstore. The Mallee has far-
reaching effects.
“G.A.L.”: Dave had just returned
from the cream factory. “ ’Struth,” he
said, “y* oughter seen a cove flash his
money about down outside the pub.
First he writes out a cheque for a hun-
dred quid and rips it up!” “Cripes,” put
in Dad, “’e must’ve been boldin’.” “I
should say he was,” said Dave. “’E did
that twice, then writes one for five hun-
dred quid and lights ’is pipe with it!”
* * *
“Squid”: At Sydney Zoo, a lady octo-
pus has laid 10,000 eggs or so in her
tank and sat on them. A previous
attempt by another member of the family
ended in disaster, the eggs refusing to
hatch and the layer turning up her eight
toes in disgust. This time the eggs have
hatched, and, contrary to previous
theories on the subject, mamma remains
alive and hearty. The size of her family
is not known. They are transparent,
tiny, and move through the water at such
a lick that an expert sheep-counter would
give them best. If they live, the prob-
lem will be disposing of them. In Egypt
Greek fishermen capture the babies by
the thousands in small mesh nets and
sell them for eating. lam told that raw
with vinegar no oyster can compare with
them, and I suppose they would be even
better with lemon and cayenne.
“Koolpinyah”: The tiger snake is
certainly bad-tempered. I have killed
dozens and have not met one that
f a jied show fight. Dr. Elkington, late
Chief Quarantine Officer for Queensland,
told me that he spent 10 years in India
studying snake poisons and that in his
opinion the “tiger” was the most dan-
gerous reptile in the world, because un-
k killers, it was invariably
ive one d j saw one dis .
“ ; down its jJ ole on the Adel-
rj , • rt<s ' r \ „ nr 4 orahhine
f' de Rlv " £ a
h d £ ■ ; back | ooking
f , , „ , , of
f"*/ ?.f ba ° k nly the luckleS ‘ ° £
P \ # *
r
Hanko : The most casual coot
ever struck was once dogging on Big
Bottletop. He blew into the homestead
one a f te rnoon and remarked by way of
a to pj c t h at he’d been “bit be a black
sna k e .” Pulling up a trousers-leg he dis-
piayed a thigh wound as evidence of
some roU gh-and-ready surgery, but the
tourniquet above it seemed a perfect job
of its kind. Intimating offhandedly that
he reckoned he might now dispense with
that impediment to his circulation, he
untied the defunct black snake and pre-
sented it to our pet kookaburra,
* * * *
<<r „ „ , ~ . „■ _
. “L™?'; Oad was suaded to v.s. a
“‘k °P' lc ' an t 0 h,s
• .’J 0 d ‘S?Jl P l^lhereon
“IXT3D printed inlarge letters ttoeon
Spectacles said to him. Can y
eP -p.,
£Jad ;,, la . s , Imi Dufty s bran .
Bot8 ot lh next block ter me-
“Murrungurry”: A drover named
Watts, travelling sheep m W.Q., struck
dry country and a scorching day ne
the Thompson River. Water was on y a
few miles ahead, but the sheep g
through thirst and heat, and finally re-
fused to go on. Nothing looked surer
than that the lot would perish there, till
Watts had a fi fai nwave. Taking
wagonette ahead, he fi lled a couple ot
casks, drove back, made a small hole in
one of the casks and led off towards the
water. With a chorus of: smtts an *
pectant bleating the jumbucks f
right to the waterhole.
*** , ' ,
“Leirum”: One of the most remark-
able items in Central Queensland’s color-
ful vege t a tion is the zamia bush of the
. district Burning, these shrubs
j y UtmLcent flames
give ott gorgeously favorite
of variegated hues. Y 8 uat ,
recreation among jack
tocracy lasses was a or other
They would go fro ve j
festive gathering a n shrub in a
round a blazing zam ’
manner reminiscent of medisva! may
pole dances. A series ® • ht is
flares on a clear, crisp ®
a sight long to be remembere .
LARCENY BY FINDING.
“I don’t deny,” said Joe the cook, and negli-
gently cadged a smoke,
“In little things I’ve alwiz been an absent-
minded sort of bloke.
There’s many a plug of Barrett’s Twist an’
Derby that I’ve lost becos
I’ve shoved the darned thing down somewhere
an’ can’t remember where it was.
“You’ll alwiz strike some flamin’ cow who’ll
take advantage of it, too.
It fairly got me monkey up the other day when
I’d a screw
Of some flash shearer cutting up a two-ounce
plug that, sure enough,
1 knew for one that I’d mislaid —some of my
own espeshul stuff.
“I tackled him about it, an’ he reckoned, to the
mob’s delight, •
That he had found it fair an’ square and, that
bein’ so, ’twas his by right.
Findin’s is keepin’s, he declares —of that there
isn’t any doubt.
I wastes no words but just hauls off and dongs
him hard upon the snout.
“We had a ding-dong, slap-up go; I left some
marks upon his phiz
To teach him takin’ other coves’ terbacker
is a painful biz.
Some blokes are tough,” said Joe the cook, and
felt an eye of darkened hue;
“He must’ve known that it was mine, seein’ he
found it in the stew I”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Osh”: Some of the cockies leave
much to the imagination of the cream-
carter who brings out our supplies.
Usually he displays powers of interpre-
tation that would be invaluable in other
more glorious spheres of employment,
but last week he registered a clean miss.
He arrived at one of the many road-
side dairies, to be met by a very an-
noyed man. “Why didn’t you bring the
butter I ordered yesterday?” “I did bring
it. Didn’t you get it?” “You only
brought one. pound, as usual, and I
ordered three!” “You didn’t leave any
order!” said the carter. “I % did, damn
it,” roared the cocky. “I put three
matches on a cream-can lid. That ought
to be plain enough for anybody!”
* * * *
“L’Allegro”: The outback show was
celebrating its jubilee and the local mem-
ber had journeyed a few hundred miles
to perform the opening ceremony, after
which he and all the heads repaired to
the grandstand to view the parade. The
ground was fitted with loudspeakers, and
“It's not a wireless at all, Ma; it's a dorg .”
a well-known breeder stood before the
“mike” to give the names and pedigrees
of the parading stock. All went well
until the politician’s fat back obstructed
the view. Then in booming tones over
the speakers came, for the whole show
to hear: “Bill! how in the hell am
I to describe this parade when I can't
see the horses? Go and get that fat
old tub-thumping goat to shift his
f rame! ”
“Showman”: A Westralian cocky
bought a dog to keep foxes away.
“How’s the dog doin’?” he was asked by
a neighbor a few weeks later. “No flamin’
good,” he snorted. “I still bin losin’ me
fowls, so I ke.p’ me eyes open, an’ blow
me if the darn dawg ain’t' bin killin’
the birds an’ swappin’ ’em with the
blasted foxes fer bunnies.”
* * * *
Henry G. Lamond: In reply to
“Hanko” (B. 14/10/’36). The action
of my serial “Amathea” is placed in the
Georgina River country (W.Q.). On
any of those treeless
downs corellas may be
seen in countless thou-
sands. Mobs of ten thou-
sand or more are com-
mon. I have known a
man drop nine with one
bullet from a .32. Cer-
tainly, they were lined up
along the edge of a
trough. Ninety-odd is, I
think, the best bag at the
same place, Rocklands,
with both barrels of a
gun. Cases are on record
of the weight of their
numbers snapping a tele-
graph line when rising
from it. Galahs don’t
favor the treeless country
to the same extent, though
equally thick in the tim-
bered country further in
—about Longreach, Bar-
caldine and on the Bar-
coo. I deal fairly fully
with corellas and the way
they mix with galahs in
my book An Aviary on
the Plains, which was favorably reviewed
on the Red Page some time back. This
V>onV with the birds of the Barkly
Tableland.
* * * *
“Begorra”: I don’t fancy those salt-
bush sandwiches, nor those stock-route
ones either, but I’ll guarantee the Bun-
garee sandwich of my early youth—a
cold spud, boiled in its jacket and split,
with a lump of pig’s ear in between.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Many a good horse has been
killed or badly crocked by catching his
long front teeth in a stirrup-iron (B.
11/11/ ’36). It happens generally when
a horse is hitched with a loose rein,
especially when flies are on the job. The
tender skin behind the elbow is particu-
larly ticklish, and in snapping round at
his tormentors the steed hooks up with
the dangling iron. The careful horse-
master —and there must be a few left—
guards against this by running the irons
up to the top of the. leathers. It takes
only an extra second or two, and must
have saved many a broken neck or
mouth.
* * * *
“X-Maulbuster”: I wouldn’t like hav-
ing to swing “Osh’s” maul fitted with
a fin. galvanised-pipe handle (B.
28/10/’36). In hard hitting even a light
maul is likely to spin when the handle
is too thin, and anything less than lin.
is too thin. Smoothness is also undesir-
able, very much so when the hands are
wet with sweat. Personally, I favor
Moreton Bay ash with the bark left on.
Black wattle with the bark on is also
good, as is brushwood box, called
“soople-jack” in parts of Queensland.
* * * *
“Sthelenite”: That eels can catch
ducks is well known to duckshooters on
the east coast of the. Speck, where
“ That'll teach 'em to get muckin' round with MY airline .”
ducks have become very cautious and
pitch in the lagoons well out of gunshot.
The duckshooters fasten eels to stakes
just under the surface and with just
enough freedom to seize the ducks by
the legs as they swim past. These eels
were specially imported from the
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.), and once
they get a grip they never let go. It is
then a simple matter to wade out and
collect ths bag, at the same time feed-
ing and resetting the eels. The only fly
in the ointment is that the eels some-
times snap a leg right off and the duck
escapes. Of course, other waterfowl
get nabbed ; I’ll wager that those one-
legged seagulls some truthful blokes
noticed a bit back had been mucking
up our traps.
* * * *
“Amen”: I can easily beat that milk-
ing record (B. 21 /10/’36). On the Her-
bert River (Q.) in ’B5, we milked 40 so-
called dairy cows, which yielded a total
of 401 b. of butter per month for the
lot! Even then the coastal natural grass
was so poor and sour that the butter
was unsaleable until I had worked it
up with fresh milk and sugar.
* * * *
“Albarmount”: Dingoes which roll
porcupines over with ease (B. 4/11/’36)
must be tusk-snouted. Once Porky gets
his claws well into Mother Earth he can
defy the whole canine tribe to roll him.
Many a stout stick I’ve broken trying to
shift him. Most hounds are content to
raise no arguments with the spiky one,
but rabbit packs, out to kill everything,
tear out his quills and then pull him to
pieces.
sp * ♦ *
“Long Hop”: “J.W.O’K.’s” old-man
’roo (B. 4/11/’36) reminds me of an old
female ’roo that took up her post at the
Bell-Barri crossroads in the Dalby (Q.)
district. She had been a pet on Jimbour
station during the Joshua Peter Bell
regime, but went blind. With a card
slung on her chest, “Genuinely blind, no
pension,” she got a handful of green
grass placed in an old dish in front of
her by every cocky who passed that way.
“Amburagi”: That yarn about the
lubra and the underwear (B. 4/11 /’36)
reminds me of a day I was invited to dine
with a Papuan R.M. and his newly-
imported wife. There was also a member
of the local mission present. When the
houseboy bore to the table the first dish
he was arrayed in one of those intimate
feminine undergarments of the time
which consisted mostly of lace threaded
with colored ribbons. It was a seemly
neck-to-knee garment, but the effect it
produced made an earthquake we had
enjoyed half an hour before seem like
change for a threepenny bit. Later infor-
mation was that Mrs. R.M. had handed
this and other clothing she considered
outworn to Cookie for burning, but his
thrifty Papuan soul, coupled with an
eye for what he considered beauty, had
jibbed at the idea of such wanton de-
struction.
“Osh”: “A.S.” (B. 28/10/’36) wonders
if a horse will buck with a drunken
rider. He will! I knew two men who
were thrown while under the influence.
The first was thrown against a tree and
killed outright. The other, a wonder-
ful rider when sober, escaped with his
life, but was left a half-witted physical
wreck who spends more time in hos-
pital than out'. We always used the
bush proverb re fools and drunks, but
it doesn’t work.
* * * *
No self-respecting rabbit
would stay below for 30 days and be re-
duced to the awful necessity mentioned
by “Colon” (B. 4/11/’36) unless the
surface of the ground was concreted for
a quarter of a mile round. Try keep-
ing them out of a wheat crop and see
how far they can burrow in one night,
when they set their minds to it. The
only charge of insanity which I could
lay against them is that in drought time
I have seen them so poor that they could
be killed with sticks, with green wheat
only a mile away.
* * * $
“Nitchevo”: The wedge-tailed eagle
might not be able to lift a weak sheep
off the ground, but I have seen one pick
up a lamb two weeks old and fly off
with it. Also, I once climbed about
50ft. up a gum-tree on the top of a
mountain to get two live, eagle chicks.
In the nest was a healthy specimen of a
merino at least three weeks old.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The title “sundowner”
was descriptively true of Dingbat
George, as we discovered after a week of
his company on the station, during which
time he made assault on the kitchen,
our baccy, unwatched clothing and
credulity. He’d leave every morning
to “make down the river,” and turn up
every night. “Got bushed again,” he’d
say, with an ingratiating grin. We sus-
pected that he went a couple of miles
into the scrub, slept through the day and
made a circuitous reapproach at sun-
down. One morning we watched, stupe-
fied, as the old boss handed the pest a
large bottle of Johnny Walker. Dingbat
departed in a hurry for the scrub. Three
hours later the boss appeared with the
wagon, on which was arranged a
stretcher and awning. All hands went
with the outfit to where Curly kept watch
on the blissfully unconscious Dingbat.
Five strong men raised him gently on to
the stretcher, and the well-greased wagon
moved off. Five hours later, 25 miles
away, they as gently laid him under a
tree and as gently withdrew. He turned
up next night! “Must’ve gone on a proper
walk-about,” he grinned, “an’ got
properly bushed. But I found some
wagon tracks an’ follered ’em back.”
Then the boss sent for the mounted
trooper.
THE MINES THAT NEVER HAD A
CHANCE.
On ev’ry field they can be found, and each old
chap can tell
About a mine, or two or three, that should
have turned out well.
Abandoned mines are ev’rywhere that would
be working yet
If they had only got the chance that they
deserved to get.
You wouldn’t find a better show, for instance,
than The Trump,
But the wrong crowd got hold of her and
crabbed her from the jump.
The Nick of Time was murdered, too, and so
was The Renown;
They ripped the best stone out of them, and
then they closed them down.
And so the tale goes on and on, whene’er old-
timers meet,
And even when at last they part the list is not
complete.
Of all the yarns in goldfields pubs they tell
there’s none so sad
As those of mines that didn’t get the chance
they should have had.
Still, having helped reopen some, I’ll say I’ve
yet to find
The gold that, so the old chaps say, the
others left behind.
My own experience is such that I have little
doubt
That those who worked —and slung them up—
knew what they were, about.
Dear reader (if this reaches print), think well
ere you decide
To give to some abandoned mine a chance it
was denied.
You will be wiser, if you want your fortunes
to advance,
To give a miss to all the mines that “never
had a chance.”
W.A.
OSCAR WLTERS.


m
Sheet
- metal
*§ STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £- eon Ltd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.. Melbourne., Adelaide.. Perth.
■ P.S.C.A.. Brisbane.
pm an^
TILLEY
KEROSENE PRESSURE
LAMPS
British Made. New to Australia.
LOOK AT THIS—
1— 300-c.p. on kerosene.
2 Mantle tied top and bottom.
3 Internal pump.
4 Internal cleaning needle m vapouriser.
5 Burn for 10 hours on 11 pints of kerosene.
<j—No danger of explosion.
7 Pyrex globes—insect proof.
8— Made of brass.
9 jvo smoke, smell, mess or trouble.
PRICES-: Ex 4, All-purpose Lamp . . 47/6
TLIO, Tall Table Lamp . . 77/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO LOCAL AGENT, OR
W. KOPSEN & CO.. LTD..
70 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
£1,250,000
1,250,000
Capita] Paid Up &HnnoOO
Reserve Fund .. •• . • • • • 1,000,0.0
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.) „
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,200,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Forcing Pens and Races.
“Sheepo”: Unless sheep are kept well
jambed up in the forcing pen they can’t
or won’t run well. Most of the delay
in drafting is caused by woollies having
too much room to turn and run back
before entering the race.
No drafting race is of any account
unless it will hold from eight' to ten
sheep. The competent drafter, like the
experienced roughrider, thinks ahead;
and to draft efficiently and quickly he
must be able to have the marks of sheep
in his mind before they reach the gate.
He should be six or eight marks ahead.
The job is impossible in short' races,
where the destination of each animal is
decided as it reaches the drafter.
The best means of drafting, to my
mind, is to have a double race, with an
“open-air” railed partition, from the
forcing pen to the single drafting race.
With two races, sheep in one will draw
on those in the other, and good run-
ning will invariably result, with little or
no attempt at turning round.
Wire netting must not be tolerated on
the sides of drafting races. It should
have gone out with blade shearing, but it
is still used on many races —and owners
wonder why their sheep won’t run!
Sorting a Clip.
“C.V.S.”: Can’t agree with the oft-
heard contention that “picking the eyes
out of a clip” does not pay.
Take a comeback and crossbred clip
in which the top line from all flocks
makes up 30 bales, bulking 58/60
quality. In this line there will almost
certainly be a small proportion of good
style 60/64. If there is enough to make
up four or five bales, it will be lost if
distributed through the whole 30; re-
moved it would make an attractive small
lot.
If the two types are sold in the one.
lot', the buyer w'll detect the presence
of the finer wool, but, unable to esti-
mate the proportion, will buy safely. ‘
A point that should not be overlooked
is that a high-priced line earns a “name”
for a clip.
Woolpressing Technique.
“Birre Gurra”: In his hints on wool-
pressing “Seenitall’ (B. 21 /10/”36) writes
that most presses need a false bottom.
I very much doubt it. The false
bottom merely saves the pressers from
having to put the spear so far down into
the bottom box. I know that many
woolpressers nowadays do use the false,
bottom, and if asked to desist come to
light with “Seenitall’s” argument about
tearing bales, etc. Nevertheless, the
most even lines I have seen turned out
(and I’ve been over the board for clips
of up to 2800 bales) were the work of
a presser who never used a false bottom.
Sheep in the North-west.
“Walkabout”: It’s a pity politicians
don’t know as much about the Fitzroy
River country (W.A.) as does “Dominic
(B. 28/10/’36). If ever another million
bales are to be added to Australia’s wool
clip, areas like the Fitzroy and the
Barkly will supply the bulk of the in-
crease. .
The Barkly has yet to prove itself,
but there are few safer areas than the
Fitzroy. Dingoes exist, but blowfly and
worm troubles are negligible. Stations
have been established there for years,
some carrying from 60,000 to 80,000
well-bred merinos, the wool from which
is equal to Westralia’s best.
As with all pioneering against heavy
odds in outback areas, scant considera-
tion is given by the Government in the
way of lightening freights, rents and
taxes, and isolation from central markets
and poor transport facilities make cost
of production high. Still, in spite of
these adversities, if l had the means
and wanted ideal woolgrowing country
I’d ask for nothing better than a slice
along the Fitzroy.
Treating Impaction.
“Stump Jump”: Contrary to prevail-
ing ideas, impaction in most cases in-
“It’s YOUR turn, I tell yer!”
volves only the last few feet of the in-
testines in domestic animals, and treat-
ments are comparatively simple.
Deeper-seated impactions are another
matter. These do not respond to dosing,
and usually have to be treated surgi-
cally.
The general run of cases, where stock
are living on dry fodder, can be cleared
up by drenching. For a good-sized cow,
lib. Epsom salts, 4oz. treacle or molasses
and 2oz. of ground ginger dissolved in
1 pint of warm water is the best drench.
An aloes ball, three to five drachms,
according to size, may be effective with
an impacted horse, or else 1 to \\ pints
of raw linseed oil, but not both. A
second aloes ball in a day or two will
do no harm.
If the impaction is too severe for such
treatment, a solid douching with soapy
water may be effectual.
Pleuro-vaccine Virus.
“E.M.”: Even in districts where
pleuro-pneumonia causes serious losses,
there has been a good deal of
trouble about the distribution of C.S.I.R.
pleuro-virus vaccine, some graziers com-
plaining of its smell, others rejecting it
because they were accustomed to natural
virus.
Actually, the C.S.I.R. preparation is
excellent in effect and has not the cardi-
nal fault of natural virus, which is diffi-
cult to standardise and which, in any
case, is obtainable only when there is
an outbreak of p.-n.; the vaccine can be
kept always in stock.
As a control measure it sounds logical
that there should be an all-round inocu-
lation of young stock every year up to
five after beginning the practice.
Beat This One.
We bought a three-
quarter Guernsey heifer on February 1,
1919. She was then 2\ years old, with
a tiny calf, and her career as a milker
began then and there. For nearly 18
years, until the other day, she had con-
tinued milking, morning and evening,
without intermission —6390 days and
12,780 milkings, between 35 and 40 tons
of milk.
She was not a “heavy” milker (per-
haps two gallons a day at most), but
the quality was superlative. In October,
1935, the manager of Moss Vale (N.S.W.)
butter factory tested her—an average
sample gave 6.6 b.f.
How long she would have kept on
milking I don’t know. She was still
going strong when an injury forced us
to help her, with a bullet, to the star-
fenced pastures.
St. John’s Wort Spreading.
“Maron”: St. John’s wort becomes
more and more of a problem in N.S.W.
The pest likes high rainfalls and cool
weather; therefore it seems logical that
one of the best times to tackle it with
chemicals is when the weather is hot
and dry. .
On good land where there is little
rough country, vigorous pasture improve-
ment is one of the best methods of con-
trol. A seed break of about a chain all
round a clean property is good insur-
ance. Sometimes, of course, the lie of
the land allows seeds to be washed across
a break, but it’s easy enough to detect
points where water is likely to bring in
appreciable quantities of seed and make
preparations accordingly.
Cutting and Curing Lucerne.
“Albarmount”: The crop should be
cut when it has a maximum of leaf, and
the first appearance of flowers and dry-
ing of the lower stem leaves are indica-
tions of this stage. Late cutting not
only lessens the weight and quality of
the hay, but also impairs the growth of
the next crop. If the first crop is in-
fested with weeds it should be cut before
the infestation runs to seed, irrespective
of the stage of lucerne growth.
In unfavorable weather lucerne is
most difficult to cure, and often bleaches
or sweats despite good handling. If the
ground is moist, dry cocks are often wet
through overnight with dew, and are not
fit to cart-in until midday.
Conversely, in summertime the hay
often becomes so dry and brittle that the
leaf breaks off in handling, and carting-
in should be done early in the morning.
During extremely hot days, the best
plan is to cut a small strip in the morn-
ing, make the hay and cart-in that after-
noon. Above all, growers should ignore
advice to leave mown lucerne in the
paddocks for specified periods.
It is a matter which is governed by a
number of conditions —chiefly the
weather —and each crop must be treated
on its merits.
Heavy humidity has occasionally
caused sweating after the hay has been
stacked in an apparently dry condition.
If in doubt, cart on the green side rather
than leave half the leaf in the paddock.
It may sweat, but brown hay is much
better than brittle stems without leaves.
Here again, judgment is necessary, as
stacking hay too green might cause a
fire.
Lucerne’s Qualities.
“Lion”: “North Coast’s” remarks on
lucerne (B. 28/10/’36) are sound and
obviously experienced. Where the stand
dies after a few years it is usually
through' mishandling.
We have 400 acres which are consis-
tently used for cutting, fattening bul-
locks and topping sheep and lambs.
Some of the paddocks are 50-odd years
old; they can still cut a ton per acre,
fattening a bullock and 10 sheep. They
are in a 23in.-25in. rainfall area (River-
ina), have the usual amount of dry spells
and are not all on “rich soil flats” either.
Lucerne needs periodical cutting and
rest', freedom to flower once a year, and
a deep cross-cultivation at least once
every three years. Early spring or late
autumn are good times when soil is soft.
Never let stock eat lucerne down to
the crown. That will invariably kill the
plant'.
Don’t stock a freshly-sown paddock
with cattle or heavily with sheep as soon
as it grows. For best results mow it
twice first, and leave the mowings on the
ground as a protection against the sun.
This acts as healthy pruning, and aids
root development and speedy crown es-
tablishment.
The drier and poorer the soil, the less
seed should be put on, and vice versa.
(Continued on page 24.)


■Hf Rf J TO ff
*
W^M§mMM : ' — v ’
InMi
I ■
hi
I : ■
iff*
mi
ill
S'mvji
,
,cC V
L C^
vr < -
r
/s
tv:
<
. * !
A« :
:: >
X / iC
K
a,
ii
.>■ i %
Hu
m
I IS
rich, sustaining value of sun-
ripened oats that is what you get in
• every health-bringing glass of Oatmeal i
Stout. It nourishes —it strengthens without *
fattening.
TO 0 H EYS
OATIDEfII STOUT
1
L
"There's New life in Every Bottle
//
*
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VICTORIA—Goldsbrough, Alort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


k oA
SV° 6^'
L
PRICES:
Black Kid ... 35,'
Brown Kid ... 35
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUE.
nr HIS fashionable Derby Tie Shoe is ideal
1 country wear. Made on a neat, comfort-
able last, it features the Soft Kid upper, with
Suede inserts.
Whether you bpy shoes for Comfort, Good
Looks, or both, this shoe is sure to please,
and the price is really economical.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY W.A.S. 4.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in
the whole of the area
of Greater Brisbane.
“The Telegraph”
carries the largest
share of local display
and classified adver-
tisements.
The man on the spot
knows relative values.
To follow his example is
often wise.
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St, Sydney
Business Going West!
Yes to- — 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
mMAtrm//EiMD
S/fOULD #£AD r//£B/6MmJ£Vm¥
EY£/?r fYES/f/S/ ' — ■—
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ONfM£~MISTAT£S-P£/CE 6?
20th Century Miracle.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
R.D.L. LEVER
EVERLASTING WATCH
Unbreakable —— Shockproof
Non-magnetic and Accurate.
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
Against Constructional Faults, and
Oiled Free Every Twelve Months.
Built to Stand a Knock or Fall.
POST
FREE
m
12
II
10
2
LEVER
9
3
4
7
5
USED BY 60,000 PEOPLE.
R. Dixon Long, Designer and Director of the
World-famous R.D.L. Wonder Watches, so
successfully used and recommended by 60,000
people during the past 11 years, now offers you
this marvellous Everlasting Watch as the acme
of Perfection in a dependable timepiece.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
R.DX. Watches, designed by an Aus-
tralian, were first introduced in 1925 and
are still supreme.
Recommended for Farmers, Train, Rail,
Police and Businessmen.
The R.D.L. LEVER is everlasting because it is
built of standardised interchangeable parts. As
one part wears, so it can be replaced at a very
low cost, making the life of the watch indefinite,
everlasting. It is also shockproof (virtually
unbreakable), having special shock absorbing
features introduced into the expert construction
of the movement.
Pocket Size, Plain Dial 17/6
Pocket' Size, Luminous Dial 20/-
Lady’s Service Wristlet Size 20/-
Gent.’s Large Service Wristlet 20/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (small round
nickel case), Luminous 25/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (nickel
cushion shape case), Luminous .. 30/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (9ct. gold-
filled cushion case), Luminous ..45/-
Lady’s Gold-filled and Solid Gold
Dress Wristlets (jewelled)—
45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Ohtainable only from
R.D.L. WONDER WATCHES,
Est. 1917. R. Dixon Long, Director,
Fourth Floor, Cromwell Buildings,
366 V Bourke St., Melb., C.l, Vic.
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers,
PRICE: 13/G PER TUBE OF TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St.., Sydney.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
TJuffyulletz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
From lib. to 101 b. is the usual variation,
according to conditions, about which the
sower should seek local advice. The soil
is often blamed for lucerne failure when
the blame really belongs to ignorance
and neglect.
Plant Sorghum Now.
“Nothung”: Spring and summer are
the times for sowing sorghum. It is
grown in much the same soils as maize—-
alluvial, friable flat lands —but can man-
age in much poorer soil and with less
moisture than maize and other fodders ;
it is grown extensively by N.Q. farmers
in dry belts.
Work the soil well, and, as with maize,
plant with the first available moisture.
Sow in drills 3ft. apart, 151 b. of seed to
an acre or more. Cultivate between rows
with the scarifier. Planter’s Friend gives
a good return; other successful types
are Undendible, Saccharatum and
Amber Cane.
Sorghum is lower in nitrogenous ratio
than maize, and, like maize, needs to be
supplemented in the rations with foods
rich in protein. A full ration unsupple-
mented by pasture grasses would be:
301 b. sorghum ensilage, 81b. bran, 21b.
decorticated cotton cake, 101 b. wheat chaff,
21b. crushed oats.
The albuminoid ratio of this is 1:5.8.
New Potato Regulations.
“Zedo”: N. S. Wales has a new set
of potato-grading regulations. There are
to be five grades: Nos. 1, 2 and 3, “chat
grade” and “seed.”
First-grade must be free from second
growth, rot, injury, exposure greening,
sunburn, insects and disease ; must be
even in conformation and not less than
3oz. No. 2 need not have a mature
skin, and weight may vary from l}oz. to
3 toz. New potatoes are No. l’s without
a mature skin; “news” used to be sold
down to l^oz.
The reason for the changes is that
small “news” used to come in too green
from the coastal districts. Gourmets
look on the small ones, properly
matured, as choice ; under the new regu-
lations the best of them will only be
second-grade.
“Chat grade” are marbles under \\oz.
but otherwise up to No. 1 standard ; seed
potatoes must be over l|oz.
Bulk lots must now be sold in N.S.W.
in one of these grades or, under certain
conditions, for stock food. •
Planting Sweet Potatoes.
“Beenleigh”: Go for quality rather
than size in sweet-potatoes. The kind
that sell are medium-sized, fairly dry
tubers with even symmetry and no
stringiness.
About lcwt. of seed tubers is needed
to the acre. Look out' for potato weevil
and see that the seed is otherwise clean.
Stick the seed tubers into a bed, being
careful that they do not touch each other,
and water every day, but not too heavily.
As the seed shoots, take cuttings for field
planting as required.
Don’t depend on cuttings from last
year’s crop ; this lazy practice is respon-
sible for more run-out plantations than
almost' anything else.
Bagging Bananas.
“North Coast”: Time was when ex-
perts looked askance at the practice of
“bagging” bananas on the plant, but
Queensland Agricultural Department,
after five years’ observation, is convinced
that the method is not so bad after all.
It has been found that when bags are
slipped over the growing bunches and
kept there the. whole year the fruit is
bigger and develops more uniformly in
flavor and color. Further, it is protected
on its way to the packing shed. Also,
bagging helps in warding off thrip and
in dealing with leaf-spot and sun scorch.
Against the improvement the cost of
bags and labor must be reckoned ; but
if, as is reported, some plantations show
only 25 p.c., or less, marketable fruit
with no bagging and 95 p.c. unblem-
ished bunches with bagging, the extra
outlay would seem to be well worth
while.
Hints for the Farm.
“Le Jardinier”: To save a decay-
attacked tree, clean the cavity of rot and
moisture and treat with an antiseptic—
coal tar or creosote is excellent. Then
plug the hole to the level of the bark
with concrete or asphalt, to render air-
tight. Tools should be sharp, clean and
sterilised.
“Newchum”: Where mites have
attacked citrus trees the previous year,
spray about the first fortnight in De-
cember with one gallon of lime-sulphur
in 50 gallons of water. The mites tackle
the - surface of the fruit, leaves and bark,
producing a rustlike discoloration on
oranges or silvery on lemons.
“Stump Jump”: Try an old safety
razor and used blades for shaving the
hide of an animal before inoculation. A
little carbolic soap and water rubbed on
the hair previously is at once a help
and a disinfectant.
“Bar IX”: When dairy stock take
to chewing sticks, a deficiency of mineral
matter in the feed is usually indicated.
Supply a lick of one part coarse salt and
two parts sweet ground bonemeal; put
into troughs near watering-places. A
little linseed-meal and crushed oats will
make it more palatable.
“Share-farmer”: When a ewe's udders
are inflamed after lambing, keep the
lamb away from the mother and, if pos-
sible, milk the ewe about six times daily.
Foment the udder with warm water, and
rub in a mixture of loz. turps and lOoz.
olive oil. Should abscesses form, lance
when ready and poultice with linseed.
Keep stricken ewes in sheltered quarters.
“Rouseabout”: To make a cheap and
effective overflow dam, build a wall with
heavy logs, letting the ends a couple of
feet into the bank on each side. Then,
on the upper side, lean sufficient 12ft.
saplings against the wall to go across the
creek, spiking top ends to the top of the
wall and sinking bottom ends a foot into
the creek-bed. The saplings break the
force of the water as it shoots over, and
the space left underneath soon silts up.
Dump a few loads of heavy stone on the
lower side to prevent erosion through the
fall of water.
“Len S.”: Spray growths affected by
tomato caterpillar (Heliothis obseleta)
with lead arsenate solution powder
to 40 gallons of water) or dust with one
part of arsenate powder mixed with four
parts of kaolin or talc. Commence
treatment two weeks after the first
blossoms appear, and repeat at intervals
of 10 days, as long as the moths con-
tinue to lay eggs. But don’t market be-
fore removing arsenical residues.
“Wandi”: It may not be generally
known to farmers that free roots of the
giant yams from the Trobriand Islands
are distributed by the N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department to encourage their cul-
tivation. The roots were first planted
experimentally on the Tweed River some
years ago. The yams, which resemble
the sweet-potato, were relished by
growers as a valuable new food, and
proved a marketable success.' They are
easily grown and prolific bearers.
Climate and soil of mid-eastern rivers
are ideal for cultivation, and no doubt
the new vegetable would be successful
much farther south.
“0.-t.”: As it’s nearly fruit-picking
time in Murray dried-grape areas, let me
utter a friendly warning to newchums.
Sultanas when half-dry on the racks are
about the tastiest thing I know. But
they are dipped in a caustic lye and are
ruinous to teeth. In my first season
among the grapes, the grower warned me
against eating the fruit on the racks, but
I thought he was just mean. A month
later four of my front teeth came out
like rotten sticks, broken off level with
the gum.
“G.F.N.”: In the Silkwood (Q.) dis-
trict, not far from the sugar city of
Innisfail, some farmers are establishing
the dairying industry. One, in a small
way, trundles his cream two miles to
the butter-factory in a wheelbarrow. His
returns at present are not large, but the
plucky chap hopes to purchase a motor-
truck before very long. That’s the way
they do it in North Queensland —hence
N.Q.’s prosperity.
“Nothung”: I could add to my par.
about pineapples (B. 21/10/’36) that a
recent report by Inspector Lewcock, of
the Queensland Agricultural Department,
bears me out entirely, and goes to show
that the large production in Hawaii is
due to the planting of 12,000 to 16,000
plants to the acre —6ft. apart and less —
and the judicious use of fertilisers.
Water-soluble fertilisers should be used,
not applied directly to the soil, but scat-
tered on the basal leaves, to be self-
directed to the finer roots. Also it is
now settled that an acid soil with iron
content is best for pines.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
IS
iSf! ** I *
,ni “ 111 *
III!
N
i
MH
111
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“An American hen has raised some rattle-
snakes.” — Cable.
That’s nothing. Our Minister of the
Interior has raised a hornet’s nest.
•F fir *F *F
“She became very dear to him. Fte lavished
a fortune upon her.” — “D.T.”
It is, of course, when a woman be-
comes dear to us that she becomes dear
to us.
“Hope no one saw us bust
that fence.”
“In Scotland porridge is made with water.”
—Sydney paper.
Here we like to use oatmeal.
■F *F *F *F
The trouble with the world is that the
nations cannot both arm their people and
disarm suspicion.
*s* •!*
“The question is, what sort of Utopia are
we seeking in Australia ” — “S. M. Herald.”
An I O Utopia.
•F *F *F 4*
“Grimmett did not howl to-day on account of
his injured finger.”—“s. M. Herald.”
It must have been getting better!
“Frankly, I wept for about 3000 consecutive
feet.” —Newspaper film criticism.
Well, it was a moving picture.
•|*
“ ‘Friendly divorces are bunk,’ says Bette
Davis.” —Movie magazine.
In fact, two bunks.
•I- -I- -I* *F
“Many items that used to appear on restau-
rant menus are now off.” — “Sun.”
So are some of the things that are on.
New Boots Plans.
Will They Fit Chemists
Or Put Them On Their Uppers?
Nowadays, it’s dangerous to go into
a chemist’s shop whistling “Boots
and Saddles.” Chemists are very touchy
on the subject of boots.
All attempts so far to shoe Boots off
have failed, and Government action
seems to be the sole hope of saving the
small chemist from a lacing. Of course,
some say they’ll survive if they pull
up their socks, but others feel it’s unfair
for Boots to come button in like this.
Boots without soles, sort of thing.
On the other hand, Boots doubtless
claim that the small chemist is a drug
on the market, and that he will have to
take his medicine.
There have been efforts to pour oil on
the troubled waters, but so far there’s no
sign of the olive branch; anyway,
branches have caused all the trouble.
And just how is the man in the street
affected? Well, with Boots plans of
larger stockings, the customer, it is
claimed, will not be socked so much in
future.
> In the meantime, chemists complain
that they will feel the pinch.
But perhaps these mysterious visitors
are only out here to see the Tests.
National stations will now resume
their own programmes.
Viv Cox.
A Trying Day.
“Few men are able to realise how trying
washing-day is to the average woman.”
• — Woman’s paper.
That is what my wife is always telling
me. She wakes me up early on Monday
mornings to get her a cup of tea. Wash-
ing-day is such a trying day, she always
says.
When the tea arrives she sleepily sug-
gests a few things that I might do, now
“I should like to see one of your hams.”
that I am up, to make things easier—
filling the copper, lighting the gas under
it and rinsing out the clothes to pass
into it.
“And you needn’t look like that,” she
adds. “If you knew what a trying day
washing-day is you’d think yourself
lucky to be a man.”
' As I am getting my breakfast she calls
to me that I might as well prepare also
a little breakfast for the washerwoman,
who will arrive shortly and expect it.
Percy Pawnticket.
*l* *l* -I* *F
“There are tribes living near the Arctic circle
who have traces of Semitic origin.”
Eski Mos, no doubt.
“Man charged with stealing a pet emu said he
took it for a lark.” —News item.
What a queer mistake!
•F *F *F *F
“ ‘The muted saxophone is very popular,’
says a jazz-band leader.”
And, no doubt, the greater the mute
the greater the popularity.
•I* *l* -I* *F
Some Little-known Facts About
Japan.
II. — General Knowledge.
It was formerly believed that the bag-
pipes originated in Japan, though the
Japanese have always contended that this
accusation is unjust. It is now definitely
established that they were introduced
into Japan in the seventeenth century by
McAngus Mcßawbee, a Glaswegian
haggis-mixer.
Mcßawbee aroused the anger of his
employers, not so much for using stink-
wort as a seasoning in place of the usual
crushed thistles and dried dock, but for
sticking to the difference in cost. Ar-
raigned on charges of lese-majeste and
heresy, he escaped and fled the country.
Wrecked off the Japanese coast, he was
taken to the Shogun, who, on hearing
the Scot play the instrument he had with
him, immediately made him the Court
torturer.
Up to the time of Mcßawbee’s ap-
pointment the Japanese were a land-
loving people, rather afraid of the sea,
but thereafter sampan-building leaped
ahead, and long-distance fishing excur-
sions became popular. When the wind
was blowing off land they went still
further. Eventually half the population
spent their time at sea. Thus Japan’s rise
to the position of the world’s greatest
fishing nation was due to the untiring
energy of a Scot.
Mcßawbee committed suicide follow-
ing his attempt to mix a haggis in Osaka
in 1862. After searching Japan for
months he eventually collected all the
ingredients but the lights. His Japanese
assistant, mistakenly helpful, poured the
contents of four whale-oil slush lamps
into the mixture.
Mcßawbee left his mark on the coun-
try of his adoption in other ways. Even
to this day a city is called a fu and a
prefecture a ken. Thus, Fu Thami, Fu
Azaneg and Hokkaidya ken, the latter
Okedoke’s chief prefecture.
Since the Westernisation of Japan
began in the middle of the nineteenth
century torture has been abolished, the
bagpipes thus falling into desuetude.
The reason why all Japanese wear
glasses may be traced to a desire to be
polite to foreigners, a trait in which they
vie with the Chinese. Opinion was once
expressed by some, tourists in Japan that
they experienced difficulty in differen-
tiating between the features of Chinese
and Japanese. The. confusion was
aggravated by the fact that all best-selling
Western novels of Oriental life referred
to both Chinese and Japanese as “bland
and smiling.” So the Japanese Govern-
ment ordered all its nationals to wear
glasses as a distinguishing mark.
Rice and fish form the staple diet of
all classes, though variety is added to
the Sunday dinner by having fish and
rice. The tender shoots of the bamboo
tree are a luxury food, only the hole in-
side the hollow stem being eaten.
S. W. K.
The Impudence!
“Coast-dwellers recently witnessed a fight be-
tween a school of killers and a school of
threshers.” —News item.
1 say, you fellows, what’s this fuss?
How dare you come disturbing us
In this unseemly fashion ! Come,
The Tasman’s not a stadium!
What is the aim of this commotion ?
The overlordship of the ocean ?
Well, dash it, don’t you think you might:
Have chosen some less public site ?
Who wants your great fat mountain-hips
Colliding with our coastal ships ?
Or is it merely that we catch
You at your annual fin-ball match ?
Is Killer versus Thresher School
Played in this area as a rule ?
Or do we witness on the main
The old triangle once again ?
In any case, be on the move,
For, understand, we disapprove,
As pacifists, of creatures who
Can’t . live in peace and friendship—
shoo !
J.K. JABEZ.
On His Feet.
7 rose with great alacrity
To offer her my seat;
*Twas a question whether she or 1
Should stand upon my feet.
ORMONDE.
Why Not?
Now will that clever dispenser of joy
Who gave mother a permanent wave,
Give us a permanent bath for the boy
A nd father a permanent shave ?
COMET.


Another Fine Australian Novel:-
I SOLD
MY HORSES
BY ERIC LOWE
My grandfather died, and I never knew how ;
He left me six horses to drive in the plough
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
/ sold my horses, and I bought a little cow,
But when l went to milk her I didn’t know how.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
/ sold my cow, and l bought a little cat ;
The wicked little thing on the mantelpiece she sat.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh. .
[ sold my cat, and I bought a little mouse ;
Its tail caught fire and it burnt down the house.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh.
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
DOUGLAS PRATT.
BOOK TWO.
Return of a Hero.
1914 - 1919.
the Needle and the Bluff the dying
H day thrust out a tongue of lire. It lay
fi ft J evenly along the tops of the ridges and,
HI H f blending with the blue haze of the inter-
vening valleys, smothered their shadows so
that there was neither height nor depth, but
only a straight, broad road of shimmering light stretch-
ing from the far horizon to Eagle Rock. Down this
path of flame rode a man, gigantic, superhuman, his
horse’s legs hidden as though wading through molten
gold.
From the foot of the rock Robin Stewart watched
the phenomenon with incredulous eyes. He had not
been unprepared for it. He had, in fact, made
arrangements to meet Meseekey at this spot and at
about this time so as to test the truth of the tale Jim
Mumford had told, though the old man’s description
had sounded too fantastic to be accurate.
“Go to Eagle Rock at sundown,” Mumford had
said, “and look to the west. The ridges run cross-
ways here, rising one behind the other higher and
higher until they reach the crest of the main range
between the Bluff and Needle Mountain. In the
distance these two great rocks seem to come together
at the tops, and in October, when the sun goes down
right in the middle of the gap, it looks like it was
shinin’ through a ring; and just before it disappears
you’ll see it as I said—like a blazin’ strip o’ carpet—
stretchin’ from the gap to the rock and dark on
either side. And that ain’t the queerest part of it.
First time I seen it I was lookin’ for cattle in the
Corner. I came to the rock at sundown, and there
it was right in front of me, and in the middle of it
stood a beast, the queerest beast that ever was seen,
with no legs, and big as a church.”
The sun sank lower and the pathway of golden
light faded, giving place to a broader view of slopes
and hollows soft with purple shadows. In the west the
spire of Needle Mountain stood darkly etched against
a glowing sky. Bill Meseekey had disappeared in a
dip between two spurs, but in a little while he came
into view again riding up the long slope to Eagle
Rock. Robin hailed him as he came close.
“Any luck?” he called.
“Not a sign. There were cattle-tracks at the
foot of the Bluff. They might have come in from
the other side, but I think they were scrubbers ; and
a bit before lunch I came to an open patch at the
head of Tucka-Bil Creek where a wild stallion had
been camping. There were heaps of dung all oyer
the clearing, but old, maybe a month or more. Wild
cattle and wild horses, but not a sign of sheep. And
you?”
Robin shook his head.
“Not a track. We’ll have another look in the
morning, but I don’t think they’re here. I saw a
mob of horses lower down Tucka-Bil, a mile or so
from the Naranbah boundary fence —about a dozen
of them. That accounts for your stallion, probably.
There was a sour-looking chestnut with them; the
rest were mares and colts, a poor lot.” He pulled
his horse around with a shrug of weary shoulders.
“Well, we’d better make camp somewhere ; the horses
would be glad of a spell, and so would I. This is
a hard country. Can you find Yugilla Springs?”
The stockman did not answer at once, and when
he did he seemed to be evading the question. He
asked “Did you reckon on camping there?”
“Yes,” Robin said. “It’s not more than four
miles from here, so Mumford says, and whichever
way else we go we won’t strike good water under
seven or eight miles. I thought you’d been there.”
“I’ve been there once with old Jim.” Meseekey
pulled a plug of tobacco from his pocket and started
to slice shavings from it into the palm of his hand.
He cut with deliberation and meticulous care, his
head bent over as though he was avoiding looking
directly at Robin. After considerable weighing and
speculating it seemed that he was satisfied with the
amount he had shaved off, for he shut the knife with
a click, rolled the tobacco between his hands and
started to fill his pipe. Half-way through the filling
he looked up with a quick jerk of his head. “I reckon
I can find it—if it’s there to find.”
Robin laughed.
“You surely don’t believe that old yarn!”
“I’d believe anything of this damned country,”
Meseekey said, but he was grinning as he urged his
horse into the darkening valley to the east of Eagle
Rock.
CXCEPT that they rode in a general easterly direc-
tion, Robin was hardly aware of the route they
took. His mind was so filled with other thoughts
that he was content to give his horse free rein and
follow where Meseekey led.
War, and the world in turmoil! The outbreak,
to him, had been sudden and unexpected. It had
come like a cloud in the clear sky, unheeded until a
sudden lightning-stroke and burst of thunder had
liberated a downpour which drenched them all. For
weeks he had found it hard to realise just what was
happening. His only feeling was bitter disappoint-
ment that he had been left behind when all his
friends, all the young men of his generation, were
sharing experiences denied to him. In September,
when the regiment had sailed, he had stayed away
from Sydney, unwilling to say good-bye to John
Morgan and the rest of his friends. Barney Case,
Fred Hare, the Mclntyres—they had all gone. He
felt that only himself was left, though this was, of
course, far from the truth. Apart from the many
who could enlist and would not, Bob Hare and others
much in the same position as Robin were still at home,
and so was Gillson Brain, though Gillie would prob-
ably go soon and in any case didn’t count for much.
It was after the regiment had sailed that he felt
his position most keenly. His mind before this had
been confused, unable to keep pace with the rapid
succession of events. But with the actual departure
of the troops his isolation became extreme. Over and
over again he sought a way out of this intolerable
impasse, but could find none.
It was simply not possible for him to enlist. He
regretted now the purchase of Naranbah. Had it not
been for this the way would have been clear enough,
but Naranbah carried with it not only a responsibility
of management but a debt of £15,000. Added to
this, in the prosperous months before the outbreak
of war he had started to improve the home property,
Lammas, clearing and subdividing, buying wire-netting
and farming plant. This work could not be left half-
done ; it must go on. Already he had spent more
money than he cared to realise, and more yet must be
laid out before the land would start making repay-
ment. Even if he sold Naranbah his responsibilities
would be no less ; he would be infinitely worse off,
for he looked to the property for profits which would
not only eventually pay off the bank mortgage but
would help to repay the money he was spending on
Lammas. It was, in fact, the expectation of these
profits which had induced him to start the farming
improvements.
He could not go. That was definite, indisputable.
It was no use thinking about it any longer. But,
having admitted this, his harassed mind took a leap
in a new direction. It was probably a result of the
first stupid, hysterical mob-cry of “Coward! ” shouted
at the young unattached men who had not already
enlisted. This insult could not possibly be directed
at Robin, and he knew it, but it started a new thought.
For the first time in his life he began to question his
physical courage, and the wish to prove it one way or
the other was rapidly becoming an obsession. Never
before had he had the slightest doubt of his fortitude.
If he had thought about it at all he would have been
sure that courage was as much his birthright as blue
eyes and a strong body.
IN this unhappy, restless state he had started the
shearing at Naranbah, and very soon had come
a further shock which for the time drove all other
worries from his mind.
He would have liked to stay at Naranbah
throughout the whole of the shearing, but as happen-
ings on the home property made his presence there
essential he had to be content with periodic visits of
one or two days duration to the Naranbah shed.
Everything seemed to be running smoothly ; the stock
were strong and the wool in excellent condition, and
it was not until the end of the third week that any
sign of disaster presented itself. Then it came with
the suddenness of a bursting bomb.
The country was wild and hard to muster, and
Robin knew that in previous years there had always
been a big straggler shearing, usually weeks after the
main cut, of sheep which had been missed in the
first general muster. This year he had, he believed,
organised so that a second shearing would be unneces-
sary. The Lammas breeding ewes, which earlier in
the year he had exchanged for a similar number of
Naranbah stock, had been kept in the easier paddocks
close around the homestead, leaving the bulk of the
sheep he had bought with the station, mostly wethers,
in the rougher, more difficult country. These he
would shear last, starting the mustering well before
they were needed .at the shed and working them
gradually into the home paddocks. When he came
to Naranbah at the end of the third week he expected
the last of the outlying flock to be within easy
distance of the shed ; there should, in fact, be only a
few days’ shearing left for the following week. He
arrived late on a Friday afternoon and was annoyed
to find less than a half-day’s cut shedded and no
woolly sheep in any of the small shed paddocks. In
a rage, he sought out Milton Allsop, his working
manager, to find the cause of this bad organisation,
and received the staggering reply, given in a sulky
voice, “There are np more.”
“But,” Robin insisted, “that’s absurd. On your
own tally you’ve only shorn twelve thousand sheep ;
and there are not three hundred in the shed. That
leaves a discrepancy of nearly three thousand.”
“They’re not on the run,” Allsop said; “not
alive, anyhow. The muster’s been a clean one. There
may be an odd score or so poked away in some of
the big paddocks—Tucka-Bil or Bittle Flat. Mesee-
key and Taylor are out looking now, but I reckon
they won’t find much —I’ve been all over it.”
“They can’t be dead,” Robin said. “That’s
ridiculous.” • .
“I never said they were. We’d have seen if they
had been, and known they were dying.”
“They must be still there.” Robin was furious,
not only at what he considered Allsop’s inefficiency
but at the tone of the replies. His anger showed in
his voice as he added “If there are three thousand
sheep missing from the run, why the hell didn’t you
notice that before? Has an animal got to be dead
and rotting under your nose before you’re aware
of it?”
“Don’t get hot under the collar, Boss.” Allsop
instantly dropped his truculent manner. “Just think,
now. The only muster we have had since you bought
the place was for lamb-marking. That was only the
ewes, mostly Lammas stock, and they’re all present
and correct. The outlying sheep have never been
run together since they were turned out there
when you took delivery. They were all dry sheep,
not worried with fly, and your own orders were not
to knock them about more than necessary. We’ve
ridden through them, of course, every week—damned
nearly every day but you know yourself in that
country they could easily be missing and never noticed
unless you got ’em together in mobs.”
“But, man alive, they must be there! You’ve
missed them in the muster.”
Allsop kicked savagely at a clod of dirt.
“Have it your own way,” he said. “Tommy
Taylor and Bill Meseekey will be in in a minute.
They’ll tell you the same as I have. They’re not
there.” He looked hard at Robin. “It’s my belief
they never were there.”
“What do you mean?”
“Just that. You took the delivery count —fifteen
thousand one hundred and seventy-seven - your
figures, agreed to by Jim Mumford. But, having
counted a mob, who took ’em back to their paddocks?
Not you, not Meseekey, not Taylor, but old Jim
himself and that overseer he took with him to Croy.
What was to stop them bringing the same mob back
or slipping them into a paddock Bill and Tommy
were mustering—for you to count a second time?
It’s been done before —and Jim’s no feathery angel.
“Very well,” Robin said. I can’t believe what
you suggest. To-morrow I’ll have a look myself, and
take Meseekey with me. If I can’t find anything 111
pay-off the men to-morrow night.” He started to
walk into the shed, but, the utter incredibleness of it
striking him afresh, he turned and fairly shouted at
his manager “Good God, they must be there!
ALL next day, from dawn till dark, Robin rode,
only to come home with the certain knowledge
that the sheep were not on Naranbah. He found it
hard not to notice the self-satisfied smirk on Allsop s
face when failure was reported. He would have liked
to sack the man without further question, but in all
fairness he could not do this. He could not lay the
blame directly on the manager ; could not even accuse
him of incompetence, for it seemed now more than
possible that the fault had been Robin s for not
taking greater precautions against Mumford’s roguery.
But in spite of the circumstances he could not believe
that the old man had robbed him.


One avenue of search, however, was still open.
Meseekey had reported that a month or two earlier,
after heavy rain, he had repaired the boundary fence
where it crossed Tucka-Bil Creek. There had been
a big gap, the stockman said, caused by the flood,
and sheep might well have escaped there, for it had
been open for many days. He had seen no tracks,
but this proved nothing, as the creek had been up
twice and would have washed them away. Robin
determined to search the country outside the boundary
fence.*' It seemed a hopeless task, looking for sheep
in the Corner, an unoccupied tract of barren land,
sparsely watered and half-a-million acres in extent.
But Meseekey knew the country fairly well; could go
direct to most of the known waterholes, and if there
were sheep in the Corner at all they would probably
find their tracks at least.
On Saturday night Robin paid-off the shearers,
and on Monday morning he set out with Meseekey,
carrying provisions for three days. At the close of
the second day their search seemed fruitless.
ROBIN watched Meseekey riding ahead, approving
his seat in the saddle, which at the end of a long
tiring day was still alert and easy. Robin had chosen
the man chiefly for his knowledge of the country, and
also because he was an agreeable companion with
plenty of commonsense. Meseekey was outstandingly
the best man of those on Naranbah, a good stockman,
and with an unsurpassed knowledge of the bush. He
was quiet and unassuming, and it had been a while
before Robin discovered that he was far better
educated than most men in his position. Robin
wished now that he had made Meseekey manager
instead of Allsop. But Donald had been insistent
that Allsop was the man for the job, and Meseekey’s
ability was then unknown.
Breaking through a patch of scrub, the stockman
came to a halt beside a tall, smooth-barked gum-tree.
As Robin drew up beside him he pointed to an old
scarf in the bark.
“That’s the beginning of the blazed trail cut by
Tot Villa, Mumford’s overseer. It’s from here on
that the trouble comes.”
“But,” Robin said, “if Villa blazed a trail it
should be easy enough to follow.”
“It is, but it doesn’t lead to the springs. And
that’s the queer part of it, for Tot was a good bush-
man. He’d heard all about the springs and had looked
for them for years without success, and then one night
he camped there with Jim Mumford. The old man
took him there in the dark, just as he did me, but in
the morning Villa took particular, notice of the
country, and on the way out, when he thought the
old man wasn’t looking—for he had the feeling, just
as I had, that Mumford didn’t want anyone else to
be able to find the springs—he notched a tree here
and a tree there with his knife. A day or two after-
wards he went out with a tommyhawk to blaze the
trail properly. He found his knife-marks, all right,
and, starting from this tree, he worked up the valley,
opening up the shallow scarfs he’d made with the
knife.. But when he got to the last marked tree he
found himself in a blind-ended gully, and no sign of
the springs. That was enough for Villa. He never
looked again, firmly believing the old legend that the
springs just disappear without rhyme or reason, some-
times for years at a stretch.”
“Then how do you account for Mumford? He
seems to have been able to find the place whenever he
wanted to.”
Meseekey grinned.
“Well, you know the yarn, don’t you? It’s all
in the name.”
“Yugilla?”
“That’s only half of it. Yugilla by itself just
means ‘the weeper,’ or ‘weeping eyes.’ You’ve heard
the springs described. There are two waterholes
under the rocks at the side of the valley; they look
like great eyes, and the rock which divides them and
the rocks above them form a nose and forehead. But
the full name —the one the blacks always used —is
Minyago Yugilla, and that’s a bit harder to translate.
It means, roughly, ‘hidden grief,’ but there are all
sorts of little meanings in the combination of words.
According to my father, the blacks meant ‘a weeper
who hides away, but is sometimes surprised by cun-
ning, or even permits discovery to a special few.’ I
expect old Jim belonged to the cunning ones.”
Robin laughed.
“Let’s hope that we do, too. Which way from
here?”
“I’ve studied it out, and I believe I know where
Villa went wrong. When they came out in the morn-
ing, he told me, they didn’t follow the valley straight
down but climbed half-way up the western ridge and
rode along the side for nearly a mile before coming
into the valley again, and it was not till then that he
had the first chance of marking trees. He swears it
was the same valley, and he was a good bushman,
but I reckon he was wrong. About half a mile up
from here the valley branches into three forks. Tot’s
trail runs up the western fork, but I believe the east
fork is the right one. Mumford brought me out part
of the way along the side of a spur, but we crossed
two low ridges before we started to climb. A man
wouldn’t notice them much, for the timber is very
thick, and in this country you’re moving up and
down all the time. Anyhow, we went straight to the
springs in the dark through a level, open valley with-
out much timber, except in one spot where we had to
crowd up to the side of a rock. We certainly didn’t
climb any ridges, and I’m positive we came into the
valley here.”
For a little way they followed the blazed trail,
then, turning to the right, rode into open, well-grassed
country. Rocky spurs climbed up on each side,
gradually drawing wider apart as the valley opened
out. Meseekey was confident, but when they had
been riding for half an hour and the valley showed
no signs of closing in he began to grow uneasy.
“It doesn’t look so right now,” he said. “Although
it was dark when I came with Mumford, I remember
distinctly that before we had ridden more than a mile
up the valley it closed to a narrow waist; then we
passed through a belt of thick timber and high rocks
where it was very dark. After that the valley opened
out again, and in less than half a mile we came to the
springs. We’ve ridden two miles or more up this
fork and there’s no sign of an end to it.”
“Let’s follow it up, anyway, Robin said. “It’s
the best country I’ve seen in the Corner, and it looks
as though there should be water at the head of the
valley.”
They rode on for another mile or so until a high
cross-ridge blocked the way and the valley ended in
a great amphitheatre. There was no sign of water,
and nothing remained but to ride back the way they
had come. Darkness caught them before they had
gone far, and Robin said irritably “This is the devil.
I’m sorry we started to look for the damned place.
The horses are perishing for water, and we’ll break
their necks, and our own, too, if we have to make
Tucka-Bil Creek to-night.”
Meseekey said quietly “If it’s not the east fork and
not the west fork, then it must be the centre valley.
I can find that, dark or no dark, and it will be easier
going than across the broken country to the creek.”
But in a little while he had to admit himself
hopelessly lost. They rode suddenly into thick timber,
and in less than a minute they could find no way out
of it. Meseekey pulled his horse to a halt.
“It’s no use riding around aimlessly,” he said.
“It looks like a dry camp amongst the trees —there’s
nothing else for it.”
“No,” Robin said, “we’ll get out of this timber.
The horses would get neither rest nor feed here. Don
seems to be bearing away to the left. I’m going to
let him have his head for a while and see where he
takes us. Maybe he can smell water.”
“By Jove!” Meseekey was excited. “I hadn’t
thought before. There’s probably more to it than
that. Do you know that you’re riding the horse Tot
Villa always used? He’s been to the springs too!”
LETTING the bay horse go where it would, Robin
took the lead. In the gloom of the heavy timber
he could see nothing, but the bay, though he was
picking his way carefully, seemed to be moving with
definite purpose. The darkness grew more intense,
and Robin’s left knee brushed against a rock; then
in the distance ahead he saw not a light but what he
could think of only as an opening in the darkness ;
and suddenly the meaning of it all flashed to his mind.
He raised his arm cautiously above his head, then,
turning in the saddle, he spoke, not realising that his
voice was almost a whisper.
“Bill! Does anything strike you as queer?”
“No.” The reply came in the same subdued
tone. “Only I believe we’ve stumbled on the right
track somehow. I think this is where it comes in
close to the rocks.”
“Put your hand up. We’re in a tunnel.”
Meseekey thrust up his hand rather too quickly.
A few inches above his head it came in rough contact
with a jutting spike of rock. “Hell!” he muttered,
but almost with the word they rode into open country.
Looking back, it seemed that they had come out
of a belt of thick timber which ran across a narrow
waist in the valley. But Don was stepping out bravely
now, with the quick, eager walk that comes even to a
weary horse when home is in sight. The first intima-
tion they had that the springs were reached was when
the bay turned sharply to the left and, thrusting its
head between an overhanging rock, started to drink
with deep, thirsty gulps.
“Well, we’re here! ” Meseekey slipped out of the
saddle. “These are the springs, all right. But just
where we are is more than I can tell you, and how
we got here God alone knows.”
Robin laughed.
“Don has a fair idea how we got here.” He
eased the bit out of the bay’s mouth. “And I think
the where of it is beginning to dawn on me —we’ll
know for certain in the morning.”
Chapter 11.
OBIN knew that dawn was close
/ even before he opened his eyes.
Deliberately he kept them closed,
savoring with every other sense the
mystery of the birth of day. He felt it
on his skin, fresh and cool. He knew of it from the
subtle blending of many scents, the grass, the trees,
the earth itself. All around him he could hear life
stirring: in the distance a kookaburra started a sleepy
chuckle ; faintly came the tinkling treble of a neck-
bell from the hollow near the timber line, where
the horses were starting to feed again ; while nearer
at hand the drip, drip of water which had been con-
tinuous throughout the night, seemed clearer, quicker,
pulsing with new life.
He turned under the blanket and opened his
eyes. The east was colorless, but the sky had lost
its intense blue depth, and a uniform grey, which was
a softer darkness, cloaked both heaven and earth.
His eyes, searching through the lifting gloom, found
the source of the falling water, and for the first time
he saw Minyago Yugilla.
Suddenly he wished that Boyd was with him now,
and fell to wondering when he would see him again.
Boyd had enlisted almost with the outbreak of war,
and was now training in an infantry camp in England.
His letters showed how suddenly and completely the
routine of his life had been checked and altered. Two
letters reached Robin by the same English mail. The
first, written in the Common Rooms of London Uni-
versity, had been all about studies and plans for
the future.
“I’ve started work again,” Boyd wrote.
“Apparently I must get a first-class in my
degree, and apparently it is very stiff. I’ve two
years to go now, and will tell you more about
the work next letter. History it is, mainly, but
economics, finance and public administration
come in” . . .
But the next letter, arriving actually by the same
mail, had been written on Salisbury Plain, and had
nothing to say about work. With a decision as swift
as it was irrevocable, Boyd had dropped his books
and picked up a soldier’s pack. He was going to make
history, not read it. This second letter had been short.
He had nothing to say about his University career
or his plans for the future. He had, to Robin’s sur-
prise, made little or no comment on the war itself,
merely saying that he had volunteered for active
service and was already in training. Commissions,
he wrote, were to be had for the asking. With his
status as a University man and his school training, he
had been snapped up, and was now a subaltern in the
New Army.
Robin remembered Boyd as a color-sergeant in
the school cadet corps; neat and straight and active,
and of course very serious and “regimental” ; but
Boyd Freeman as a fighting unit in an army seemed
the most incongruous thing in all the mad contradic-
tions of the past few months.
Keenly as Robin had felt his position when his
friends and his neighbors, men from his own troop,
had gone into camp, it was as nothing to the bitter-
ness that was his on receiving Boyd’s last letter. There
was between the two a sympathetic bond which, start-
ing in early school life, had grown to a friendship
of immeasurable breadth. For Robin, at least, it
filled the greater part of his spiritual life. A passion
overwhelming in its intensity, and greater by far than
his feeling for either his wife or his young daughter.
Every action, every thought, was, consciously or un-
consciously, weighed in the balance of Boyd Free-
man’s judgment.
It was so wrong, he thought, so damnably wrong,
that he, with his vigorous health, his experience of
controlling men, should be compelled to remain in-
active while Boyd, the student, was rushed into the
firing line. He knew that Boyd now was very much
below him in physical efficiency. Years of unremitting
study had taken toll of his strength. In his own queer
way Boyd had told of this ; never complaining, though
Robin, reading between the lines, could recognise the
regret of the athlete that, with the pressure of time
and poverty, his body must be greatly neglected. In
one letter Boyd had written:
“I always relish a few personal things going
wrong, just to add a piquancy to affairs. I can
count on sleeplessness and probably toothache.
I get more and more efficient, and the general
result is that I’m feeling thoroughly satisfied
with the world.”
A strange bravado, it seemed. Without whining
about it, Boyd wanted to let his friend know just
what obstacles had to be surmounted. Robin was
certain that this comment would not have been made
to another soul. They were both still very young,
though lately, in spite of the measurement of years,
Robin had felt himself to be a great deal older than
any of his contemporaries. Well, if the preparation
for fighting was anything like as rigorous as it was
reported to be, Boyd would regain his physical fitness
—for a while, at least. But to make use of a mentality
like Boyd’s to load and fire a rifle and dig holes in
the ground was stupid—tragically stupid, when one
realised that at any moment that mentality might be
destroyed for ever.
IT was broad daylight now, and, stretching out his
arm, Robin shook Meseekey’s shoulder as he lay
close beside him, curled up in a grey blanket. The
stockman woke instantly, thrusting his tousled head
from under the blanket, his young, fresh face flushed
with sleep. He sat up, looking all around and then
to the east where the dawn light glowed like a bronze
shield.
“She’s a great day!” he said.
Walking over to the springs he plunged his head
into the cold, clear water. He stood up, looking more
youthful than ever, grinning and shaking water from
his face. Robin said “Bring in the horses. I’ll get
a fire going.”
Meseekey came in riding one horse bareback and
leading the other. He was singing with the pure joy
of living, and Robin smiled. Though their ages must
have been within a few months of each other, here
again he felt years older, and responsibility weighed
heavily on his shoulders. The loss of the sheep was
a very serious matter, and still more worrying was
the underlying feeling that Allsop was in some way
responsible.
Suddenly he decided that he would get rid of
Allsop and promote Meseekey to managership. If
he could not in justice give the loss of the sheep as
a reason, that did not stop him from sacking a man
if he thought fit.
His purpose, though it had come to him swiftly,
was a definite one. It was always so. He might worry
over a problem for hours, even for days, or the solu-
tion might come to him in a flash ; but when it did
he was always sure. In many cases he was probably
wrong, but in his own mind there was never a doubt.
The one straight line of action opened out before him
without an alternative. Quick to put his scheme into
operation, he turned to Meseekey.
“Bill,” he said, “I’m going to let Milton Allsop
go. I want you to take his place.”
“As manager?” Meseekey’s surprise was evident.
“Yes. You can handle the job all right; and
I’ll be able to give more of my time to Naranbah
now than was possible before.”
Meseekey’s expression had become serious. He
was looking down at the ground, one hand rested on


his knee, holding a pannikin of tea, the other plucked
nervously at the grass.
“I’m sorry, Mr. Stewart,” he said, “but I can’t
take it.”
“Why?”
“I’m leaving.”
“Leaving! Aren’t you satisfied here?”
“It’s not that. The place is all right—and I could
manage it to suit you, 1 reckon. Don’t think I don’t
appreciate what you’ve offered me or that I’ve been
discontented here. Allsop was a good boss to all
the boys”
“Is that the trouble?” Robin broke in. “You
don’t want to take his job?”
“Hell, no. I’m not that much of a fool. If I
don’t take it someone else will; we were all expecting
he’d get the sack—he is himself, I think. I’m going
to join up.”
“Enlist!” Strangely enough this possibility had
never occurred to Robin. And yet it was so obvi-
ously certain. He made a little impatient, clicking
noise with his tongue. “Of course,” he said. “I’m
sorry. I just hadn’t thought of it. When do you
want to go?”
“As soon as I can.”
Meseekey shook the dregs from his pannikin and
turned it upside-down beside the fire.
“I’m a New Zealander, you know,” he said. “My
relations are all over there. I wrote to say I was
going to join up here, but three of my cousins have
gone into the Mounted Rifles, and they want me with
them. I reckon I’ll go.”
Robin impulsively was about to say “I’d go myself
if I coulfl,” but he choked back the words, telling him-
self savagely that he had no need to make excuses
to every man in the country. The thought of Mesee-
key’s enlistment had upset him more than he cared
to show. It left him, he thought, without a dependable
man on Naranbah. Allsop he distrusted, Taylor was
old and slow, and Kimberley, the half-caste horse-
boy, though he was an excellent stockman, was not
reliable away from other men. He felt resentful,
unreasonably annoyed with Bill Meseekey. Men
would be hard to get now —good men. All the good
men, if they were not already in the army, were about
to enlist, or would enlist before long. Only the wasters
and the incompetent would be left —the wasters and,
of course, the men who couldn’t go. Well, Allsop
would have to stay. There was no doubt of his effi-
ciency, and he had good control over the men. Per-
haps he was more trustworthy than Robin believed.
In any case, Meseekey’s leaving made it unavoidable.
He would say nothing to his manager, and would look
for another man to take Bill’s place—some youngster,
probably, not old enough to go to the war.
HIS thoughts reverted to, the lost sheep. He won-
dered what view Meseekey took of the whole
business. The stockman had not made any comment
nor offered any possible explanation, and until now
Robin had not asked it of him. At the back of Robin’s
mind, since he had first discovered the loss, there had
always been a half-formed idea that Allsop was
directly to blame. It was evident from Meseekey’s
words that everyone on the station expected the man-
ager to be the scapegoat, but whether they held him
actually responsible was another matter. In ordinary
circumstances Robin would not have discussed his
manager with any of his men ; but Meseekey was leav-
ing, and in any case he was different from the others ;
more intelligent and more stable. Approaching the
subject indirectly, Robin asked “How long were
you with Mumford?”
“Seven years nearly. I came to him in 1907
when Father died.”
“Then you must know him fairly well?”
“Yes, I reckon I do.”
“What is your opinion of him?”
“He was very good to me.”
Check, Robin thought. He tried another line
of approach.
“His reputation is not very savory?”
“No.”
“Do you think he deserves it?”
“You should know more about that than I do.
You’ve lived in the district all your life.”
“You say he was very good to you; were you
disappointed that he didn’t take you to manage his
farm near Croy instead of Villa?”
“No. We all knew he’d take Villa. It was
natural. Tot was his overseer.”
“He thought a good deal of Villa, didn’t he?”
“I reckon he must have.”
Robin felt like swearing; he was getting nowhere.
The absurdity of the situation came to his aid, and
he laughed out loud.
“Don’t be so damned cautious,” he said.
An answering grin spread over Meseekey’s face.
“Don’t you, either. What is it you want to know?”
“It’s about the sheep, really. You know what
Milton Allsop suggests?”
“Yes. He’s made no secret of it —that Jim
worked the double on you ; made you count the same
mob twice.”
“Well, do you think he’s right?”
The stockman took time to consider the question.
Not that consideration was necessary, Robin knew,
for the man’s mind must have been made up long
before; but the country people believed there was
a formality to be observed in such matters, just as
there was a studied defence of non-committal replies
to questions about another man, or from a stranger
to any questions at all about stock or the land.
“No,” Meseekey said at last. “I don’t reckon
he did.”
“What does Taylor think?”
“I’ve never asked him.”
“Oh, for the love of God! ” Robin was exasper-
ated. “I know you’ve never asked him, but has he
ever said anything off his own bat? I’ll swear he
has.”
“Yes. Tommy doesn’t think so either.”
Meseekey was grinning again, and Robin was
suddenly suspicious that the man was pulling his leg.
Since he had chosen the accepted form of indirect
approach, Meseekey was playing up to it for all he
was worth. A red flush started to mount in Robin’s
face, and the stockman, evidently thinking he had
gone far enough, dropped his banter and spoke freely.
“No,” he said. “I’d be willing to bet that Jim
Mumford had nothing to do with the missing sheep.
He’s capable of any villainy, but he’s a queer old
bird ; made up of all sort of little foibles. One of
them is literally an article of faith with him. He’d
steal the eye out of a needle, but unless he could do
it in his own particular way he’d reckon it would
bring him bad luck. He would never take anything
without leaving something in its place—something in
kind. If he stole your false teeth he’d leave you a
cure for toothache—that sort of thing. Do you see
what I mean? If he’d done you down for the sheep
you’d have found something strange on the run-
something that you couldn’t make head or tail of till
you discovered your loss, and then you’d have recog-
nised it as an ironic gesture. It was his trade-mark,
and he was childishly proud of it.”
“I knew something about that,” said Robin, “but
isn’t it stretching things a bit to base your belief
on it?”
“No, not at all. That would be quite enough.
But there’s much more. If he took a liking to anyone
he’d do anything in the world for them. He liked
me. No one could have been better to me than he
was when Father whs killed. He would never let me
down. I know he persuaded you to keep me on here,
and I know if you had refused he’d have made a job
for me somewhere. And I know, because he told
Villa, that he took a great liking to you. I’m as sure
as I can be that not only would he never take you
down, but he would be ready to help you to the limit
at any time.”
“And Villa? He liked him too?”
“Villa is different. If ever there was a no-gooder
it’s Tom Villa —and Old Jim knows it. He knew it
when he first got him, and being himeslf a whole-
hearted rogue, he set a trap for the fellow and
caught him red-handed. Now Villa has to bark and
shut up as Mumford tells him. I reckon he’s mighty
useful to the old man.”
“Then if Mumford didn’t put one over the sheep
must have been on the run when I took delivery.”
“Yes. I’m sure they were.”
“Then what do you think happened?”
“At first I thought there was a chance of finding
them here, but now I don’t; we’d have come across
some tracks if they were still here. And if they’re
not, someone must have moved them —months ago.
It would be as easy as falling off a log. Look at the
lay of the land. This sort of country runs from your
boundary clear across the divide, and once over the
other side you’re in a completely new district, and
no one would take any notice of travelling mobs of
sheep with strange earmarks and brands. The drover’s
permit could be easily fixed. This valley, if one knew
about it, would be an ideal spot to hold stock until
a good opportunity offered to move them.”
An idea was crystallising in Robin’s mind.
“Yes,” he said. “Or to leave them here for an
accomplice to pick them up.” He looked straight at
Meseekey. “Do you think Allsop had anything to do
with it? If you don’t want to answer, say so. This
is purely between ourselves. I’m asking you as a
friend.”
“There’s nothing I can tell you,” Meseekey said.
“Honestly, I would if I could. Three thousand sheep.
It’s a big loss for any man. I don’t like Allsop, but
I’ve nothing whatever against him. So far as I know,
he’s mover been in the Corner.”
Robin said despondently “I don’t suppose we’ll ever
know what happened. It’s too late to trace them now.
It’s no use looking any more ; we’ll ride straight home.
I’ll show you the secret of the valley.”
“I know,” Meseekey said. “I found out when I
went to bring in the horses. It’s blocked across that
narrow waist by a huge landfall. The tunnel goes
right through it —probably zig-zags a bit. From the
other side it must look like tumbled rocks at the end
of a blind gully, and I reckon we’ll find Villa’s blazed
trail 'starting* a little way beyond the tunnel. He was
right; it was the same valley; but who would have
thought of coming on and looking for a way through
the rocks!”
Chapter 111.
WITH Margaret toddling beside
her, Myrna walked slowly
down the drive in front of
Lammas homestead. The
drive had been gravelled. She had never
seen any work completed so quickly. It had been
done with such speed that she had been worried all
the time that it would be a slovenly, ill-finished job ;
but the final result, she was forced to admit, was
everything it should be. For over two years —ever
since their marriage—she had been agitating for this,
but Robin had put her off month after month, saying
that it was unnecessary, that he had no time or that
he could not spare a man to do the work. Finally,
annoyed at her* ceaseless importuning, he had started,
and in a spate of angry energy had finished the
gravelling in a day.
Robin and Ted Cluff, the stableboy, had done
the job together, using two drays and drawing the
white gravel from the bed of Lammas Creek. Sitting
on the front verandah, Myrna had watched them
working. Robin loaded and drove the drays while
Ted Cluff cambered the roadway and spread the
gravel. They never seemed to pause. clock-
like regularity the bald face of Nelson, Robin’s team
leader, would appear over the crest of the hill, then
the dray itself would come in sight, with Robin walk-
ing beside the wheel. At an interval which never
varied the second dray would follow, Kate, a nuggety
Suffolk Punch, between the shafts. They would come
through the front gate and steadily on to where Ted
was spreading. Robin would stop Kate with a word,
take old Nelson by the head, swing the dray around
and tip the load ; then, with a foot on the hub or
the wheel and a hand on the rail he would shout a
command to Nelson, and in an instant the heavy dray
would be swung back to its place and locked. Exactly
the same procedure with the second load, and then*
with Robin riding in the leading dray, back they would
go, steadily down the drive, out the gate and away
to the creek; the last Myrna would see of them the
tailboard of Kate’s dray disappearing over the brow
of the hill. Ted Cluff would work furiously, but had
seldom finished spreading the last load before the bald
face came into view again. When the gravelling was
complete Robin, with his usual overflowing enthusi-
asm, hooked Nelson to the tennis-court roller to put
what he called “a polish on the job” ; but the great
bar-shod hooves tore up the surface, so that he had
to rake it all over again.
Myrna smiled as she thought how proud he was
of the drive now that the work was done, and how
reluctant he had been to do it. She knew that in
a very little while he would be pointing it out to
people and saying “I’ve always wanted this gravelled
—did it the first opportunity that offered. Apart
from the look of things, it makes such a difference
in wet weather.” Quoting the very arguments at which
he had so often scoffed.
With a little unhappy feeling she looked at the
trees and shrubs which she had chosen herself and
which Robin had planted before they were married.
The young plants had flourished, and when she first
came to her new home she had been overjoyed to
find how vigorous they seemed ; but quickly they had
fallen back, until now some of them were dead and
most of them were dying. White ants were at their
roots, Robin said, and nothing could be done. She
had not accepted his judgment, and had tried every
way to bring them back to health, but without success.
Quite early, when the first of the trees started to
wither, Robin had driven in beside them softwood
stakes soaked in an arsenic solution, though he told
her he placed little faith in such a remedy. The white
ants, he said, were supposed to eat the poison-soaked
stakes and die ; but he believed they thrived on arsenic.
He then proceeded to tell her extraordinary tales of
the activities of white ants, which she believed, until
he capped the stories with one telling how in a certain
far-back district the ants, having destroyed all the
sleepers on the railway, started to eat the rails. She
had been annoyed and disheartened, and had torn
up all the stakes, believing that they, too, were an
elaborate joke.
She felt often that she could never be certain
what Robin would say or do next. He had, she knew,
a savage temper, which burst out at most unexpected
times, and at others, when it might have been excus-
able, was entirely subdued. She remembered an occa-
sion soon after their marriage. They were driving to
the Brains, returning her first call, and were well on
the way when she discovered that she had left her
cardcase at home. Robin was annoyed with her, and
had insisted that they should drive back the three
miles they had come to get it. His annoyance had
flamed to fury when she said that this was ridiculous,
and that if they returned to Lammas she would stay
there.
He was volcanic in his now silent wrath, and
had driven home almost at a gallop. She had quickly
found the cardcase, not daring to carry out her threat
of staying. Setting out again—either to relieve his
own feelings or to annoy her, she was never sure
which —he had driven the young, half-broken horses
like one possessed of a devil, taking short cuts through
timber, over logs and down steep banks, so that they
arrived at Burnt Plains with the horses a lather of
sweat and Myrna terrified, her dress and hat wind-
blown and disarranged. As they started again for
home the horses had become almost unmanageable,
plunging and struggling until finally they had smashed
the pole and thrown themselves in the tangled harness.
She was afraid to think what Robin would do now.
Knowing the mood he was in, she would not have
been surprised had he taken the horses one by one
and flogged them. To her utter amazement he sat
back and roared laughing.
On the way home, in a trap borrowed from
Gillson Brain, shyly she spoke about the incident,
still half-expecting an outburst of temper; but he
was serene and smiling, nursing his frightened team
with sympathetic, steady hands.
“It was my own fault,” he told her. “I bustled
them and threw them about too much coming over.
They were still bewildered, not knowing what might
come next. Young horses are like children ; they
need to feel secure. I don’t often forget.”
jyiYRNA bent heavily over a wilting liquidambar.
■ M It was the last of three, and would assuredly die—
it was almost gone now. Loving the warm, rich color-
ing of autumn leaves, she had hoped for so much
from her liquidambars and maple-trees; but they had
been the first to go. Either the climate and the soil
didn’t suit them, or they were really being attacked
by some underground enemy, as Robin had suggested.
Her ideal garden had always been a wild, free place
of trees and flowering shrubs, something which didn’t
look “planted,” but she had been forced to content
herself with small suburban plots; and now, with
space unlimited, the earth itself had played her false.
She thought fretfully that Robin didn’t seem to mind.
His idea of a garden was probably orderly beds of
annuals, which would spend their short lives in reck-
less splendor, and, when they could bloom no more,


could be decently buried, their ugliness hidden, their
untidiness raked up and burnt and the ground left
cold and bare until the next sowing.
Her dream of wild, unfettered beauty was fading
with the shrubs and trees, and Robin didn’t seem to
care. And yet before they were married he had
described for her the Malwa garden—the different
shades of green in the hedges, flowering gums, May
bushes, prostantheras, melaleucas, cream blossoms on
the wild apple-trees, a tangled wilderness of peri-
winkle covering an old well, which in the spring was
a mass of pale-blue stars —he must have loved it. Was
it only because Malwa was the home of his boyhood
and that every tree and shrub held memories? Per-
haps if her plants had been allowed to live at Lammas
he would have loved them, too, but she would have
liked him to show more regret at their dying.
He didn’t care. Carelessness, that was it; care-
lessness in its broader sense —an over-readiness to
accept disaster. Last year, when a cyclone had blown
the roof from the shearing shed and laid flat the
shearers’ huts, he had stood and laughed, though it
meant a loss of more than £3OO. She had been mad
at him for this; unreasonably perhaps, for she real-
ised it was no use crying over spilt milk. Still, a
proper show of distress was only right on such occa-
sions. Robin’s attitude smacked too much of irre-
sponsibility.
She thought again of her garden. She had believed
that only the most degenerate of people had no love
of trees ; with her it was a deep passion which she
had been sure that Robin would share. But did he?
His attitude to the forlorn garden had been much
the same as it had been to the destroyed building—
it was a matter for laughter. And then he had
started clearing for wheat, and the trees in the paddocks
had come crashing down. He had been deaf to her
pleading. “You can’t grow wheat and timber
together,” he told her.
The green trees had been hauled down by winches
and teams of bullocks. Great excavations had been
made at the foot of each tree, and then, when the
roots were exposed, wire cables were fixed high up
the trunk and the hauling began. One by one the
holding roots were severed with an axe, until the few
remaining could no longer bear the strain and the
tree fell. Then the limbs were lopped, the trunk cut
into lengths and the whole stacked in a great un-
sightly pyre. Then Robin had started burning—dead
timber and green; it must all be consumed. All day
a blue haze of smoke hung over the land, and the
nights were bright with a thousand fires.
Robin was rushing the work through. If possible
he wanted to plant this land in the coming year. He
would burn right through the summer months, he
told Myrna, if the shire council didn’t stop him.
Summer burning had never been attempted in the
district because of the danger of bushfires, and
Robin’s proposal had been the cause of much com-
ment and no little antagonism. 'Myrna had been
perturbed by it, begging him to listen to the advice
of his older and more experienced neighbors ; but
Robin had laughed it off, assuring her that he could
make everything perfectly safe. He would plough
fire-breaks and keep a good watch.
He had practically persuaded her that there would
be no danger, for she knew his efficiency, but still she
dreaded the burning-off through the hot months. The
summer had hardly started, but the heat in the day-
time was already uncomfortable, and with the fires
all around she knew that in another month it would
be scarcely bearable. She shuddered as she thought
of her first summer at Lammas. She had been desper-
ately ill, and had found that she was going to have
a baby. Now, in this their third summer, she was
heavy with the burden of another child. It would be
born in February, and they had decided that it must
be a boy this time. He would be named Brand Ellis.
Brand after Robin’s uncle, and Ellis, which was
Robin’s second name.
pASSING down the drive, Myrna leant on the front
■ gate, watching for Robin. She thought he must
be home to-day. Ted Cluff, returning from Croy on
Monday, had brought disturbing news. Shearing was
over at Naranbah, and many of the shearers were in
town. They were grumbling, Ted told her, that the
shed had not been as big as they were led to expect,
and there was a rumor that in some mysterious way
Robin had lost three thousand sheep. This was Wed-
nesday evening, and if they had cut out on Saturday
Robin would surely be home to-night. She wished
he would come and relieve her mind of the dreadful
anxiety which had brooded there since she had heard
the rumor about the sheep. It couldn’t be true. It
would ruin them. But then facts were always exag-
gerated, and Robin had told her that shearers were
confirmed grumblers.
Baby Margaret was tugging at her skirts, wanting
to be lifted up to the gatepost. She bent down awk-
wardly, thinking that she should not be lifting even
Margaret’s slight weight, and as she straightened again
she saw dust in the distance, then a car, and she knew
it was Robin.
She walked a little way down the road to meet
him, and almost as he drew up she asked him about
the sheep.
“Why, yes,” he said. His face was happy as he
kissed her, and lifted the baby on to the seat beside
him. “It’s true enough, but there’s nothing to worry
about.”
“Oh, Robin! Three thousand sheep!”
“Well, we’ve still got sixteen thousand.”
Nothing to worry about! Here it was again—
careless, irresponsible. But she said no more about
it until they were in bed together that night.
“Robin,” she asked him then, “does nothing
matter to you? Since you came home this afternoon
you’ve been as gay and light-hearted as a foolish
boy. Will you never realise your responsibilities?”
“I can’t see your point,” he said. “It’s over now.
What’s the sense in moaning about it?”
“But, dear, you don’t seem to realise what a loss
it must be. You’ve got to think what to do next,
what steps to take, how to economise.”
“I have thought.”
“What are you going to do? Stop the farming
improvements, of course.”
“Why, no. They must go on. I’ll have to get
more money, that’s all. I’m going to Croy in the
morning to see the bank. I must buy more sheep to
make good the loss.”
“Robin, you can’t! It would be madness. You
mustn’t borrow again—it’s wicked, wicked.”
He said wearily “I know what I’m doing,” and
she thought “The same old cry.” He turned over on
his side.
“Myrna,” he said, “I’m tired ; I’ve been camping
out for two nights. Let me get to sleep.”
SOME time through the night he woke again to
find Myrna crying quietly beside him. He was
instantly sympathetic and distressed ; he had seldom
known her to cry. He turned and patted her arm
gently.
“Don’t do that,” he said. “What’s the trouble?
Tell me.”
“My home!” She was sobbing now. “It means
so much to me.”
He slipped his arm under her neck and shoulder,
drawing her close to him, not understanding.
“All my life,” she said, “I’ve wanted a home like
this. All my life I’ve been shifted from place to
place, living in rented cottages, never certain, always
moving on to smaller places, cheaper rents. When
I came here I cannot tell you all it meant to me —
a haven of refuge, secure, permanent; and you, a
strong rock to cling to, to stand between me and
uncertainty and trouble. Now you make me think
that you are unstable, shiftless. If you go on like
this, borrowing enormous sums of money, risking
everything in a mad gamble, this home will go too.
You don’t care. If the home means nothing to you,
then for my sake—for the children’s sake—stop before
it’s too late.”
“Don’t you see,” he told her quietly, “I have been
standing between you and trouble. Before I saw
you I had five days to worry and to plan out what
was the best thing to do. I’m not going into this
bullheaded and without thought. I know it is the
only right and sensible thing to do. I hoped that
you would just believe in me and let me shoulder
all the worries. I’m not much good at explaining
things; I suppose it’s because I was bred in the bush,
but I find it very hard to give explicit details of my
plans of land management, especially to anyone with-
out country experience—but I’ll try.”
His arm tightened around her shoulder. The
very feel of it, strong and protecting, gave her a sense
of greater security. She had stopped crying now, and
she thought “If only he could always hold me like
this”—but there were hours, days, when he was right
away.
His voice went on, steady and comforting: “This
matter of the sheep is really a very small thing, if
you look at it from the proper angle. “It’s hard for
you, I expect, not knowing just where to stand, but
if you get your perspective right you will see things
differently. I owe the bank fifteen thousand; my
assets, at a conservative estimate, are forty-eight
thousand. That is the first thing to consider. Next —
we want to pay off the debt as soon as possible, and
to do this we must make our land produce as hard as
it damn’ well can ; and this is more necessary when
we remember that Naranbah is practically all lease
land and will only be ours for a limited time. If I
didn’t replace those sheep Naranbah would be loafing,
not able to pay us a reasonable percentage on the
money we’ve spent on it.
“And the same applies to the improvements here.
With the railway coming, and farming going on all
around, this land has become too valuable to be
allowed to idle. It’s got to work hard, and money is
necessary to make it fit to work. Now go back to
our first consideration. We have the money, but it’s
tied up, and only by co-operation with the bank can
we make it available for productive work. Does that
sound very complicated? Even if it does, it will show
you that I have given thought to it, and am not plung-
ing recklessly into debt.”
“I don’t understand it all, but it seems very
different when you tell me like this. Forty-eight thou-
sand ! I had no idea you were worth as much as that.
Robin, never leave me alone for long. When you’re
with me, touch me and talk to me, I see things
through your eyes. I love you so —but when you’re
away I can’t help it; I think horrible things, even of
you.” Following a thought which all the time had
been at the back of her mind, she said “Robin, the
last liquidambar is dead —everything in the front
garden will die.”
“I’m afraid they will, but we can plant again.
There’s a catalogue somewhere. We’ll pick out what
we want to-morrow and send for them straight away.”
“But they’ll die, too.”
“Not if we get the right things. Native plants,
evergreens. All your first lot belonged to other coun-
tries ; they won’t do here ; they’re just a Christmas
dinner to the white ants, and the climate doesn’t suit
them.”
“You really mean that?”
“Yes. We tried lots of them at Malwa. It was
just the same.”
“Then why didn’t you tell me when I got them?”
“You didn’t ask me,” Robin said, and his mind,
leaping to the verbal spar he had had with Meseekey
that morning, he burst into a startlingly loud guffaw.
“Be quiet,” she chided him. “You’ll wake Mar-
garet. Whatever made you do that?”
“I thought of a funny story.”
“A funny story!”
“Yes. Early one morning a cocky sat on the
rail of a fence looking for rain, when his neighbor,
who didn’t live more than ten miles away, rode up
and greeted him.
“ ‘Mornin’.’
“ ‘Mornin’.’
“ ‘Did y’ ever ’ave an ’orse bad with colics?’
“ ‘Yairs.’
“ ‘What did yer give ’im?’
“ ‘Kerosene.’
“‘Just kerosene?’
“ ‘Yairs.’
“That same evening Cocky No. 1 was sitting on
the fence again, and again his neighbor rode up. As
they had already met that day no greeting was neces-
sary. Cocky No. 2 started the conversation right away.
“ ‘I give my ’orse kerosene.’
“ ‘Yairs.’
“ ‘My ’orse died.’
“ ‘So did mine.’
“ ‘Evenin’.’
“ ‘Evenin’.’ ”
“Robin!” She was chuckling in spite of herself.
“What on earth put that into your head in the middle
of the night like this?”
“Well,” he said, “I seemed to have been a bit
like one of those cockies.”
She said shyly “I’m sorry I was such a little
fool. I think Brand Ellis should take some of the
blame.”
She pressed closer to him, and soon she was
asleep in his arms, her head on his shoulder.
Chapter IV,
mR. KINGSWOOD shook down
his shirt-cuffs, a comical manner-
Ifl ism which Dr.' Blair called
“shooting his linen.”
“Well, Robin,” he said, “you’re
lucky, I think. With money as tight as it is at
present, I didn’t expect you’d get anything. After
all, a stock mortgage means nothing; it won’t handi-
cap you in any way. It is simply a guarantee that
any money you receive for stock will be paid into
this bank. Unnecessary, I know, but, under the
circumstances, more than reasonable.”
Robin, sitting in a chair in the manager’s office,
was thinking hard. No expression, either of relief
or disappointment, showed in his face, but his fingers,
moving nervously, were twisting his hat round and
round by the brim. For more than a week he had
been anxiously awaiting the reply from head office.
To his surprise, when he had first broached the subject
of a large overdraft Mr. Kingswood had not been at
all encouraging ; he had, in fact, been almost gloomy
as he spoke of the shortage of money and the rising
rate of interest.
“I’ll try,” he told Robin, “but I don’t hold out
much hope. Couldn’t you manage withoqt it?”
“I suppose I could,” Robin said, “but it wouldn’t
be giving me a fair chance. I’d have to stop the
farming improvements right away, which seems absurd
when everything is so far advanced. Even then I
would be hard put to it to find money to pay my
contractors for the work already done. The wire
netting is on the place now and not yet paid for.
That loss of sheep means a smaller wool cheque.
To find money immediately I would have to sell stock,
and that would leave me with a further shortage.
When I bought Naranbah you told me I could easily
get twenty thousand from the bank. Why can’t I
get it now?”
“Well, money’s a lot tighter, for one thing. Also
—this is a tip to remember —when you borrow money
get as much as you can when you first ask. Your
interest is reckoned on a daily balance, so it makes
no difference whether your limit is fifteen thousand
or twenty. The bank doesn’t like a request for more
money in such a short time. It looks as though you
didn’t know your business, for one thing.”
“But the circumstances are exceptional. It didn’t
seem at the time that I’d ever need more money. You
must see that yourself.”
“Oh, / see it. But whether head office will is
another matter. No one ever seems to need more
money at the time of borrowing, for one thing.”
“I take it you’ll point out all the circumstances?”
“Of course I will. I’ll send in a damned good
report; you needn’t worry about that. It’s just that
I don’t want you to feel disappointed if you get
knocked back. Now let me have full details of your
present position—and your expectations. If I can
give head office the impression that the extension of
the loan is more or less temporary they may look on
it more favorably. If we get together we can arrive
at a pretty good idea as to how long it will be before
you can start reducing the overdraft.”
ROBIN was thinking “Kingswood is right; the stock
mortgage doesn’t really make any difference so
long as I’m not restricted in buying and selling, but
how will Myrna take it?” When he had told her
there was a doubt as to whether the bank would let
him have the extra money it had affected her strangely.
It seemed that she had steeled herself to accept the
inevitable, but when she learnt there was a chance of
refusal she had seized on it as a heaven-sent possibility
of escape. She had lived through the week in a fever
of anxiety, praying with all her soul, Robin knew,
that the loan would be turned down. What her reac-
tions would be when she knew that the accommodation
was only possible by giving the stock as added security
Robin was afraid to think.
Success, he believed, could certainly be bought
too dearly. Until the night of his return from Naran-
bah he had not fully realised how terribly she dreaded
their debt. He did not want to hurt her any more.


What did it matter if his plans went a little astray?
Their happiness was the main consideration, and he
knew she would be happier, and believed that the debt
could be more effectively managed, if they exercisd
rigid economy and cut all expenses for productive
improvements. To her, such expenses, if you didn’t
have the ready money to use, were wicked extrava-
gance, and nothing would ever wholly convince her
to the contrary. He believed he was strong enough to
struggle along lines that would please her, though he
knew it would irk him to the limit of endurance. His
decision came in a flash. He would tell her of the
necessity for a stock mortgage, and if she took it too
hardly he would let her have her way. He turned to
Kingswood.
“May I use your ’phone?” he said. “I want to
have a word with my wife before I decide.”
Over the telephone he told her briefly and clearly
what the bank demanded. He could have an extra
five thousand, but would have to give a mortgage over
all his stock. Her reply staggered him.
“Oh, Robin,” she said, “that’s splendid! If you
must have more money—and I’m trusting your judg-
ment in that —what could be better? I don’t mind so
much your risking the stock, but I couldn’t bear the
thought of more money being borrowed on the home.”
“No,” he said, and then, uncertainly, “Good-
bye.”
“Wait a minute!” she called to him. “Don’t go
off yet. Your mother just rang up. They’re coming
over this afternoon with bushels of fruit for me to
make into jam, and we’re nearly out of sugar. Bring
me home a bag. I expect you won’t be back now
until to-morrow.”
“No,” Robin said. “I’m going out this afternoon
and to-morrow morning with McNamarra to inspect
sheep.”
“Very well. Good-bye. Margaret sends her love.
And don’t forget Nancy will be on to-morrow’s train.
I’m glad about the money—and relieved.”
Robin stood for a minute or two by the telephone.
Was he justified in going on now? He thought so.
After all, his only reason for not accepting the bankas
terms would be to save Myrna from anxiety ; and if
she in her ignorance was satisfied, then nothing would
be gained by making foolish sacrifices.
“Very well,” he told the bank manager, “those
terms will suit me —on the understanding that I can
buy and sell just as I have been doing.”
“That’s all right. Go ahead with your dealing.
Purely as a formality, I’d like to see all your account
sales; and you understand that any stock you pur-
chase will come under the mortgage. You’re free to
operate straight away if you want to.”
“I probably will. I’m going to inspect a mob
with Fred McNamarra this afternoon.”
“Right! Well, that settles our business. Can
you stay in town to-night? We’re giving a bit of a
send-off to Doc Blair —he’s got his army commission
and is leaving pretty well straight away. Just a
private show—three or four of us —a last game of
bob rises. I know he’d like you to join in if you
can manage it.”
“I will,” Robin said. “I’d like to. I’m staying
in town to-night anyhow. But McNamarra and I
might be a bit late getting back. What do we do?
All throw in for the grog and the supper? And
where is it to be?”
“As a matter of fact we’re going to Mac’s house.
He’s a grass widower at present. I’ll get the food
and drinks, and we can square up afterwards. There’ll
be five of us, or six—l’m not sure which. You and
I and Mac and Doc Blair and Jones the storekeeper,
and the chap who’s just bought Doc’s practice, but I
don’t know if he plays.”
“I’m not so keen on playing poker with Tom
Jones. He always whines if he’s losing, and he and
McNamarra will have a stand-up fight over cards some
day.”
“We couldn’t very well leave him out. He sug-
gested it, for one thing. That’s partly why we’re having
it at'Mac’s place. Doc’s idea —he’s a canny bird;
said Mac would have to be civil to Jones in his own
home.”
“All right; we’ll be there. But we might be
late. I’m not going to let Mac rush home just for
a game of poker.”
one bett ing!” Dr. Blair threw down his hand.
■ ■ “Four aces, and a nice little collection from
each of you. Thank you, gentlemen. And that means
a jackpot—and a drink, and something to eat; I’m
as hungry as a horse.”
The five players stood up and walked across
to McNamarra’s sideboard. Spencer, the young
doctor who had bought Blair’s practice, was already
at the dining-table, where cheese, butter and biscuits
and sandwiches were waiting. He was small, pasty-
faced and negative. Though he had taken no part
in the game he had consumed more than his share
of liquor and had irritated the players by standing
behind their chairs and making subdued but audible
hisses as good or bad hands appeared. He walked
over now, rather uncertainly, carrying a plate of
sandwiches, and, cornering Robin, started, apropos
of nothing at all, to elaborate on his successes in
confinement cases. Robin felt bored and uncomfort-
able, but he was rescued by a bull-like roar from
Dr. Blair.
“Stewart!” he called. “Come over here. I’ve
got some old books I think you’d like —early editions
of ‘Punch’—too much of a nuisance to cart about
with me now. Where can I leave them for you?”
When Robin was close Blair caught him by the
arm and said in what was meant to be a whisper:
“Don’t blame me —I didn’t pick him. My medical
agent sent him up, and I’m grateful enough since it
lets me get away, though he’s getting the practice for a
song. Has he been telling you what a fine accoucheur
he is—gentle and sympathetic, ready at any time of
the day or night?”
“Yes,” Robin said, and added suspiciously
“What have you been telling him?”
“Nothing. It’s part of his advertising campaign.
It’s not for me to ; throw mud at a fellow-practitioner,
and he’s probably quite competent; but, strictly
between ourselves, I’m damned sorry for the people
of Croy.”
“I don’t care much about the people of Croy,
but I do wish he wouldn’t sniffle down the back of
my neck when I’m playing cards.”
A malicious gleam came into Dr. Blair’s eyes.
“Yes,” he said, “it’s time we stopped that.”
Putting down his glass, he turned quickly to
McNamarra. “That’s your ’phone, Mac. I’ll answer
it. I’m half-expecting a ring.”
He strode out the door and along the hall to
where the telephone hung in the agent’s office.
“Funny,” Kingswood said. “I didn’t hear a
ring.”
Spencer smirked. He seemed very unsteady now
and his face was flushed.
“You haven’t a doctor’s ears,” he said. “We’re
listening for that ring all the time.”
They heard Blair’s deep voice:
“Yes. Yes —all right. Yes, straight away.”
He came back into the room.
“Spencer,” he said, “this is your pigeon now,
thank God. You remember the brickworks —about
seven miles out along the Clune road? I pointed them
out to you this afternoon. Do you think you can
find them? You can’t miss them, really.”
“Yes, yes. I can find them all right. What’s the
trouble?”
“Your first confinement case. Thoms is the
name.”
“But Thoms hasn’t got a”— — began Jones, but
he broke into a yell as McNamarra stamped on his
toe. “What’d you do that for?”
“Shut up!” the agent whispered hoarsely.
Dr. Blair said “Old Maggie again.”
“Maggie!” Jones exploded.
“Yes,” Blair said shortly ; then to Spencer: “Your
car’s outside, isn’t it? We’ll see you off.”
The car started with a jerk and a grinding of
gears, and Dr. Blair shouted “Turn to the left at
the bottom of the street and drive straight on. If you
don’t strike the brickworks as soon as you expect
don’t worry, just keep going—you’re sure to find one
sooner or later.” He waved a ham-like hand. “Good-
bye, my obstetric friend.”
“But the brickworks,” Jones said, “are the other
way. He shouldn’t turn to the left.”
“He’ll be lucky if he turns at all,” McNamarra
growled.
Mr. Kingswood shook his head doubtfully.
“I don’t quite like it,” he said. “The man’s as
drunk as an owl. He’ll break his neck.”
“I know he’s drunk,” Blair said. “That made it
so easy. He’s drunk and he’s no right to be drunk ;
and now I’ll have to keep strictly sober. It doesn’t
matter if he does break his neck —he’s already paid
for the practice.” He started to laugh. “I really
hope he does find the right way. I’d give all I hope
to win to-night to hear Bricky Thoms’s language if
Spencer turns up to deliver his nannygoat!”
AS the game went on the situation between Jones and
McNamarra became more and more tense. Both
men were well under the influence of whisky, and
time and again only Dr. Blair’s bluff good humor
and ready wit averted a serious clash. In the two
years since he had first met him Robin had grown
to like Blair immensely. He was so robust and forth-
right in all his dealings, and in whatever company
he found himself he became immediately the domin-
ating personality. He would, Robin thought, be a
very efficient and popular army surgeon. Jones
Robin detested. He was a widower, without children,
and owned the biggest store in Croy. In drink he told
pointless smutty stories and boasted loudly of liaisons
which everyone knew were fictitious.
To McNamarra’s obvious annoyance the store-
keeper was winning steadily. The agent threw in his
hand.
“You win again,” he said sourly, “but I think
you’re bluffing.”
“Te! He! He!” Jones cackled. “Aren’t you
betting, Mac? Don’t be frightened of Tom Jones;
he’s always bluffing—you’ve said it. Pay the price if
you’re game to test it. If you’re not, shut up!
Another couple of wins like this and I’ll be going
down to Sydney with you, Doc!”
“Come all the way,” Blair said, “and I’ll pay
your fare.”
McNamarra chuckled, Jones’s face went redder
than ever, and Blair, to cover his lapse, turned to
Robin.
“Did you know we were getting a chemist in
Croy? She came to call on me yesterday. A woman,
if you please. Talk about the face that launched a
thousand ships! Hers would sink a battle-cruiser —
a prow like the Queen Elizabeth.”
In a little while Jones started to whine and
curse the cards and his luck. He was losing now
as steadily as he had been winning. Robin would
have liked to stop. They’d been playing a long
time and he was tired of the game and disgusted
with the bickering between McNamarra and Jones.
But he was winning, and etiquette forbade that he
should suggest a closure. Playing carelessly, he
bought two cards, holding the seven, eight and nine
of hearts. He picked up two more hearts, the six
and the ten. Evidently the others had made good
hands, for the betting went vigorously. Kingswood
dropped out first, then McNamarra, and-finally both
Blair and Jones decided to see Robin’s cards. He
showed them—a straight flush. Dr. Blair flung down
his cards with an exaggerated pretence of anger.
“By God, Stewart,” he roared, “I didn’t think
you’d bet on that hand amongst friends!”
Robin laughed, but Jones, taking his cue from
the stronger man, said nastily:
“Neither did I. Not in a friendly game like this.
Anyone else would have been content with the
royalties.”
Dr. Blair winked broadly at Robin, but
McNamarra leaned across the table.
“You bloody little runt!” he said the agent
himself was a bare five-feet-three. “Do you think
Doc meant it? Get up and apologise before I drag
you out of the chair.”
“Sit down and don’t be a goat,” Robin said, but
Blair took a surer way of stopping trouble.
“Mac,” he said, “you’re a damn’ poor host.
Everybody’s glass is empty. And I think it’s time
we called it a day. I’ve got a lot of packing to do.”
He stood up and walked over to the sideboard.
Robin carried whisky and soda to the three at the
table and then joined the doctor. He poured himself
out a stiff drink and handed the bottle to Blair.
“No, not for me,” the doctor told him. “Are you
quite immune to alcohol? I’ve been watching you
all the evening. The other three are as tight as bottles,
and I haven’t been drinking, but you haven’t missed a
round, and as far as I can see you’re still sober.”
“I am,” Robin said. “I haven’t swallowed so
much whisky in all my life, and it doesn’t seem to
have affected me at all. Only I want more of it—
lots more, a whole bottle ; I could drink it neat.”
“Could you!” Blair looked at him curiously.
“It’s your business —but, from one mug to another,
you keep off it altogether if you feel like that. Now
we’ve got to get these other fools home. I’ll take the
noble lones if you look after Kingswood. McNamarra
will have to put himself to bed.” He held out his
hand. “Good-bye, Stewart. Where are you camping?
Milsom’s pub? Then I’ll drop the books there for
you in the morning. I wish you were coming along.”
He smiled engagingly. “I guess that you do, too.”
BACK at the hotel Robin found everything in dark-
ness and quiet. He was craving for more drink,
and considered waking Tom Milsom to get it for
him, but at three o’clock in the morning this seemed
an unfair thing to do. He walked restlessly up and
down the passage outside Milsom’s room. His nerves
were tingling, his throat and mouth were dry, and his
stomach was hot, burning with a fire which he felt
must be quenched at any cost. He was drunk, he
supposed ; drunk in some queer way which didn’t
affect his muscular co-ordination. He was quite certain
in his movements, but his mind was filled with mad
desires and strange fancies. It seemed to him now
that there was really nothing to stop him from going
to the war. He had been thinking of himself as too
indispensable. He could lay out a plan of campaign
and leave a manager to carry it through. The fact
that he had already despaired of getting a manager
even for Naranbah he brushed aside. It seemed to
him now that he would sack Allsop —he should have
done it before —and then he would get a man to
control both properties until he came back. One
of the big wool firms would surely get him a good
man, and his father would keep an eye on things
while he was away. It all seemed so simple and
straightforward —what the hell had he been worrying
about?
He walked upstairs, but before he was fully un-
dressed his restlessness overcame him and he padded
down in his stockinged feet to continue his sentry-beat
past the publican’s bedroom. After a while the
absurdity of the situation struck him. He must do
one thing or the other. He stopped outside the door,
but, his purpose changing in an instant, he swung
around and went upstairs again. He lay in bed, by
a supreme effort keeping quite still; but he could not
sleep.
Early in the morning he heard movement below
and went down in his pyjamas, to find Bella Milsom
cleaning out the bar. He asked her for whisky.
“Whisky!” she said. “At this hour of the morn-
ing! You don’t want whisky.”
“I do,” he said. “God knows I do.”
“I reckon you don’t.” She looked at him hard.
“Anyway, you don’t get it from me ; but I’ll give you
a drink.”
In a long glass she mixed him something which
bubbled and fizzed, and he drank it down in great
gulps. .
“God,” he said, “that’s good! What is it?
“Never you mind. Now go and have a cold
shower and a good breakfast. You’ll be all right.”
Chapter V .
MYRNA’S baby was born early in
February, one Saturday while
Robin was away at Malwa. She
had no doctor, and afterwards
when Robin thought of it he knew that she
and the nurse had conspired to bustle him out of the
way that morning, giving him to understand that the
birth was not imminent, so that he would not send
to Clune for Dr. Morgan ; for Myrna was determined
that on this occasion he would not incur what to her
seemed an outrageous expense.
Convinced that Myrna was perfectly safe, he rode
away early in the morning, calling first to see the
Macgregors, who lived on a small selection adjoining
his river land. Now that their son Malcolm was
in the army, the old couple found it hard to work
their land properly, for Macgregor had grown weary
in the service of other men before luck in a selection
ballot had given him land of his own and a home
for a wife who, like himself, was no longer young.
Two years after their marriage Malcolm, their one


child, was born, and now Malcolm in his lusty youth
had forsaken the farm and his parents, and was an
infantryman in Egypt, waiting for the privilege of
throwing his life away.
He wondered that morning why the thought of
Malcolm Macgregor should stir in him such a feeling
of bitterness against war. But the bitterness, perhaps,
was not so much against war as against Malcolm ;
though this was hardly fair, for Malcolm’s responsi-
bilities were as nothing to his own, and if he analysed
his feelings he would find jealousy at the bottom of
it all. He knew that had their positions been reversed
he would have acted as Malcolm had done. But it
did seem hard on the old Macgregors, who had waited
so long for the comfort of home and the joy of
children, that causes so remote and confusing should
have taken their son and left them to struggle again.
Robin did what he could to help, even to plough-
ing their small cultivation area, but he knew there
was much left undone, for Macgregor was too old
and feeble to manage heavy work by himself. The
river crossings were always a source of trouble, and
it was about these that Robin wanted to see him this
morning.
The river, running through blacksoil plains, was
in the summer little more than a string of bog-rimmed
water-holes; but with the rain it came down in a
savage flood, sweeping everything before it. Flood
rails were useless at the fence crossings. The rails
themselves could, of course, be renewed, but the river-
bed was a wide span, necessitating two intermediate
posts, and no matter how stout these were or how
deeply sunk into the bed the flood waters would thrust
them aside, tear the silt from their bases, twist them
and turn them, until, if they were not actually up-
rooted and carried away, they would be dragged half
out of the ground and thrust over at such an angle
that they would have to be taken up bodily and sunk
into the river-bed again. Such work was quite beyond
Macgregor, and Robin had decided to put in for him
one of the new crossings, a system of suspension cables
and folding floodgates. They were most effective, but
expensive.
The old man, when Robin told him of his inten-
tion, was gruff and inarticulate. Like many of his
kind he found it hard to say “Thank you,” but Robin
knew he was bursting with gratitude and pride at the
thought of the famous floodgates which would be his
very own.
Robin had a cup of tea with the Macgregors and
rode on to Mount Henry, where he had lunch with
his sister and Bob Hare. They were very excited about
a reported attack on Suez Canal by the Turks, and
were wondering if the' Light Horse had taken any
part in the action. Letters from Fred Hare had told
of the regiment’s arrival in Egypt, and the arduous
training they were undergoing in the desert. No one,
Fred wrote, knew quite what was going to happen,
though there were rumors without number. The
general impression was that the Australian and New
Zealand troops were being held in Egypt for the
protection of the Canal zone. There had been reports
of a big Turkish force mobilising in lower Palestine
for an attack on Egypt, but no one believed they
would cross the Sinai desert, and the men were getting
bored with inaction and discontented With the heavy
training and discipline imposed when they wanted to
get to the actual firing line as quickly as possible.
From Fred’s letters Robin received news of many
of his friends who were in the same regiment the
Mclntyres, John Morgan and Barney Case. They
were all well, and all anxious for “a crack at some-
thing.” The horses had landed in better condition than
had been expected. There had been losses on the
voyage, but on the whole they had stood the long
sea trip very well. Fred sent a message that Whale-
bone was in great fettle. Robin was glad to get word
of the old horse, for John was a casual correspondent
and had not written a line, except perhaps to his own
family, since leaving Australia.
TIT Malwa Mary Stewart sat on the wide front
verandah watching the white pigeons on the lawn
beside the tennis court. The day had been stifling, but
with the shadow of the big house lengthening and
shading the lawn the pigeons were leaving their shingle-
roofed cote to bill and coo on the grass. They would
have their short hour of comparative coolness, flying
around a little perhaps, and then, when the sun was
quite hidden behind the western hills, one by one they
would go back to their shelters for the night.
There was a rustle of leaves, and the boughs of
the willow-trees over the pond were swaying. A little
breeze hurried through the garden, and Mary won-
dered if it might be the forerunner of an easterly
which would bring a cool night. In a minute or two
she was certain of it, for away in the distance, across
the plain and beyond the river, she could hear the
roar of the wind. She stood up and passed along the
verandah, pulling up and fastening the green-striped
canvas blinds so that they would not flap and bang
when the easterly arrived.
From the corner of the verandah she could see
Robin and his father standing on the bank of the
overshot dam which was thrown across the creek
at the bottom of the homestead paddock. She had
persuaded Robin to stay to dinner, and he and Donald
had walked down to the dam to inspect the new
concrete spillway which Donald was having built.
What a big man Robin had grown, she thought; he
was taller than his father and must be almost as heavy.
She was very proud of her son, but liked best
to remember him as a small boy when he was entirely
dependent on her. All too soon he had developed a
will of his own, and she knew that she had very little
influence over him. But she knew, too, that for all
his independence he was in closer sympathy with her
than he had ever been with his father. She smiled.
Their natures, she thought, were too alike. Neither
of them would show emotion to the other. They
would go on through life holding each other at a
distance. In her heart she admitted she had striven
to keep it so. Long ago she determined that Robin
should be hers and hers alone —to mould, to chasten,
to love. If he had taken matters rather forcefully
into his own hands she was not now distressed about
it. It had been a blow to her when he had deliberately
flouted her wishes and refused to qualify for a profes-
sional career; but she had forced herself to remember
that one reverse did not make a defeat, and that
patience and singleness of purpose could work wonders.
She had gained one point—one big point—Malwa
would never belong to Robin. With Malwa no longer
attainable, his attachment to the land must be greatly
weakened ; and for this, much as she disliked her, she
had indirectly to thank Myrna.
Myrna had put a weapon in her hands which she
had used swiftly and ruthlessly, forcing Robin to
choose between this woman and the old home, know-
ing well that his impetuous nature would make him
forswear what she believed was the more dangerous
love. How greatly Robin loved his wife Mary
was not prepared to say, but that Myrna should hold
his love seemed impossible. When the time came he
would turn back to her. Until then she could wait.
There were rumors that Robin was already in
trouble over his land, had loaded himself with a
burden of debt which he found hard to carry. Myrna
had told her something of this, but she could give
but a hazy explanation of the exact state of affairs,
and had been so persuaded by Robin that everything
was well that she had not hesitated to incur the extra
expense of a second maid and a companion for her-
self. Mary did not know that this was greatly Robin’s
doing, and that in order to satisfy her conscience
Myrna had denied herself the holiday which Robin
had begged her to take during the hot summer months,
nor that she had fought down her apprehension and
had conspired with the nurse to save him the big
expense of bringing Dr. Morgan from Clune when
her baby should be born.
ROBIN and his father walked slowly back from
the dam. The east wind was blowing steadily now,
and the mill behind the homestead, caught in the last
rays of the sun, was a wheel of flashing light.
“Are things going all right?” Donald asked. “No
further losses?”
“No,” Robin told him. “All right now. I’ve got
the ploughs going at Lammas, following up behind
the clearers. We’ll be planting quite an area this
yea^”
“Good! The bank treating you all right?”
“Yes—quite.”
“I believe you had to borrow again.”
“Yes,” Robin admitted, and asked quickly: “How
did you know?”
“Myrna told your mother.”
“It seemed the only thing to do.”
“Perhaps you’re right,” Donald said slowly, “but
be careful. A big debt is a very worrying thing, and
there is always the interest to be reckoned with ; it
eats up a lot of your profits. A dealer, too, is likely
to be caught at any time, temporarily, and it could
be very awkward if you left yourself with no margin
of ready cash.” He looked directly at his son, his
eyes steady and searching. As a boy Robin had been
afraid of this look. He was uncomfortable now, but
his discomfort flashed to resentful anger at Donald’s
next words. “You must expect no further help from
me. I hope you thoroughly realise that. It is quite
definite —and the choice was yours.”
ROBIN rode home through the night feeling hurt
and depressed. There was no need, he thought,
for his father to have spoken like that. Since he had
started to make his own way in the world his father
had offered no advice ; and since Robin’s boyhood
Donald had made few advances towards establishing
a closer friendship with his son. Yet Robin knew he
was fond of him and believed he had faith in his
ability to succeed. Was he losing that faith? Myrna
had told of his losses and his further borrowing ; had
she given his parents the impression that he was care-
less and inadequate?
Thinking of Myrna he became suddenly uneasy,
unconsciously urging his horse to a quicker pace,
and when from the top of a low ridge he saw the
lights of Lammas homestead, he drove the chestnut
ahead at a hand gallop. There was no one about
when he let The Witch go at the stables ; but Nancy
Mcßride had heard the hoofbeats and met him at
the back gate.
“Robin,” she told him gaily, “you have another
daughter—born at midday.”
“And Myrna?” he asked.
“Very well, and very happy.”
“Why didn’t someone ring up?”
“You know there’s no connection with Croy
exchange after noon on Saturdays.”
“Then why didn’t you send Ted Cluff over to
Malwa?”
“Oh, stop arguing!” She shook him by the
shoulder. “Ted was in Croy and didn’t get home till
sundown, and we thought you’d be back much earlier
than this. I offered to go over in the car, but it
would have worried Myrna. She knows I’m only
learning to drive.”
“Doctor Morgan—is he still here? Did he get
here in time?”
“He didn’t come at all.”
“What the hell”
She clapped her hand over his mouth, laughing.
“What sort of a father do you think you are,
standing here swearing? Go in and see them.”
Chapter VI.
THE fiddle, followed bravely by the
accordeon, was wailing:
Grey gravel, grey gravel, the
grass is so green,
The fairest young maiden that ever was seen.
Myrna sat forlorn, watching the dancers turning
in narrow circles on the floor of the new grain-shed.
Perfect time, perfect rhythm—and their faces as grave
as mourners at a keening. To the city-bred girl it
was an impossible, incongruous scene over which she
was supposed to preside. There were a few bags of
wheat stacked in a corner, one of them burst and the
grain trickling down in a yellow stream; chairs at
intervals around the walls ; the fiddler crouching on
an upturned kerosene-case —he had refused a chair—
and Dave Seabrook, Robin’s old boundary-rider,
playing the accordeon on the floor, his long legs
stretched out straight and stiff before him, a constant
menace to the dancers.
What worried Myrna most was the gravity of all
the people. If they must dance at a time like this,
she thought, why couldn’t they be gay about it? It
would surely fit the mad surroundings better. But
no. From the whole gathering there was not a word,
not a sound but the weird duet of violin and accor-
deon and the scrape and shuffle of moving feet. Robin
had told her that the bush people took their dancing
seriously and that they danced well, but she had been
unprepared for the utter lack of animation, the blank-
ness of the faces of these people who were supposed
to be enjoying themselves. If decorum and perfect time
counted for anything she supposed they did dance
well. There was never a false step, as there was
never a break in the rhythm of the music, usually
both instruments together, but sometimes the fiddle
alone in a melody unknown to the accordeon-player;
but whether he played or waited for the tune to
change into something familiar Dave Seabrook’s left
foot flapped its broad nail-studded sole backwards
and forwards to each cleverly stressed beat.
IT all started with the coming of Johnnie McNeil
three weeks ago. For three weeks Robin fed and
housed the itinerant fiddler, and night after night
he had walked down to the shearers’ huts to listen to
Johnnie’s fiddling. “Grey Gravel,” “Sally Waters,”
“A Dancer in Yellow”—all the old songs, and many
weird melodies which Myrna had never heard before
but which Robin seemed to know and love. She had
gone with him one night but had tired of it quickly,
not sharing Robin’s conviction that Johnnie was an
inspired natural musician. She saw in him only a
sly old loafer. What surprised her was Nancy’s
interest in the player. That Nancy, with her ability
and knowledge of music, could tolerate the fiddler was
beyond her understanding.
“Does he do anything for a living?” she asked
Robin.
“I don’t think he worries much about a living,”
Robin told her. “He just wanders from place to
place, playing. Sometimes he gets paid for it —at
bush dances but he never asks for money, never
seems to care so long as he can get food and shelter.”
“But does no one refuse him that?”
“Refuse! Some of the newcomers might, but
never the old hands. He’s Lame Barty’s son!” As
though that explained it all.
After a while she discovered that Lame Barty
had himself been a wandering minstrel, dearly loved
and much sought-after in the old days; and none of
the people who had ever heard him, or had even heard
their parents speak of him, would have dreamt of
denying his son, himself an old man now, the least
comfort.
IN June, just before Johnnie McNeil’s arrival, Robin
had completed the building of a new grain-shed
for the storage of seed-wheat. The timber had been
sawn on the place and bush workmen had been
employed on the building. The shed, as yet unpainted,
looked .rough ; but Robin assured her it was strong,
which was evident, and mouse-proof, which seemed
to be the main consideration so far as the seed-wheat
was concerned. He was very proud of his grain-
shed, and Myrna knew he was dying to celebrate its
completion in some way. Johnnie McNeil’s advent
supplied an idea, and instantly Robin decided. He
would give a bush dance and invite the whole neigh-
borhood. There would be the Devines and the Ingles,
the Macgregors and the selectors from across the
river, all the old settlers and a few stockmen and
share-farmers—but none of the town folk from Croy.
It would be a real bush dance, and Myrna was
expected to prepare food for the gathering, to dance
with the men, and be pleasant to their wives and
daughters.
“But, Robin,” she urged, “you can’t do that!
You’ll make yourself look cheap! As your father’s
son you have a certain position to uphold.”
He had laughed heartily at that.
“For what it’s worth,” he told her, “that position
is mine in this district until I die. Just as Johnnie
McNeil is always sure of a meal and a bed. Nothing
I did, nothing that ever happened to me, would make
the slightest difference.”
She realised vaguely that he was right and that
it was not altogether a matter of social advantage
or of wealth. With his money he was free enough.
That he was a ready lender to every settler in the
district she knew and fretted at. Harry Devine came
to him for the loan of £7O to put his wagon in order
for the wheat hauling. Jim Coulter from across the
river wanted a small flock of breeding ewes; they


were sold to him by Robin on the understanding that
Coulter would pay for them when he could. There
were scores of similar cases. And yet when one of
his clearing contractors asked him for a small advance
on work not yet done he had refused point-blank.
When she was curious at his seeming inconsistency
he had said “In the bush we say there are two bad
pays—the man who never pays at all and the man
who pays before the work is done. If you do that
the chap who’s doing the job sees no reward at the
end of it. He’s working all the time to pay off a
debt, and after a while he looks on you as a blood-
sucker, and nine times out of ten the job is slummed
through, grudgingly at that.”
“But isn’t it the same when you lend men
money?”
“No, it’s not the same. They’re not working for
me. Harry Devine was when I lent him money for
his wagon, but I didn’t stop it out of his earnings ;
they were paid just the same. The other is a debt
to be accounted for when the time comes. They
know I would never press for it, and I know they
would never let me down if they could help it.”
“What would your father think about it?”
“He has done the same thing all his life, and
so did my grandfather. I don’t think either of them
regretted it.”
His assurance of his standing in the district had
a curious foundation ; quite feudal, she told him once.
But he had denied that.
“No,” he said. “Here the small man owns his
own land. But everyone knows that we —the Stewarts,
I mean —were the first in the district. We made it.
We saw it grow. It is our district, and no one would
deny us that honor. And handed down from father
to son is the unwritten law that because it is our
district we have to look after it and its people. It
is not only we who feel that way, but the people
themselves. They could not put it into words, and
would strenuously deny that they owed fealty to any
Stewart; but the feeling is there and will never alter
until the present generation, at least, is dead and
buried.”
THE fiddle, unaccompanied now, was calling plain-
tively :
Farewell, you little fishes that in the river dwell, oh ;
I’m going to be a dancer, a dancer in yellow.
"Oh, beware! Oh, beware!” said the fish to the
froggy then, oh.
"I’ll take care, I’ll take care,” said the frog to the
fish again, oh.
Myrna wondered afresh, as she often did, at
Robin’s seeming unconcern of circumstances. He had
thrown himself into the organisation of the dance
with a wild enthusiasm which seemed to her boyish
and heartless. Less than a week ago word had been
received that Fred Hare was dead and that John
Morgan had been seriously wounded. Robin had
hardly paused in his preparations, and the idea of
putting off or abandoning the dance had apparently
never occurred to him. The papers each day were
filled with long lists of casualties from Gallipoli, but
she believed Robin rarely took the trouble to read
them. Where, she wondered, did he get his hardness?
From his mother, possibly, though Mary seemed
genuinely distressed over the appalling death-roll and
surprised that Robin had shown so little concern for
John Morgan, who was his oldest friend. Only Nancy
Mcßride, with two brothers and a cousin on the
peninsula, defended Robin’s attitude.
“It’s not that he doesn’t feel things,” she said.
“No one who knows him could believe that. Either
he deliberately refuses to think about the war or he
is building up a barricade behind which he can retreat
and keep his feelings from the rest Of the world.
Probably it’s a little of both. I know and you know
how bitterly he resents his forced exemption from
the army. I believe —it seems a horrible thing to
say—that he is even jealous of the men who die.”
A SUBTLE change had come into the spirit of the
dance, and Myrna discovered that her own foot
was tapping in sympathy. The music had slid adroitly
into a tune which she recognised now as that of a
ribald song Robin sometimes sang:
I met an old beggar all tattered and torn.
He was eating the grass on the front-garden lawn.
I said “You poor fellow! Alas and alack!
The grass is much greener around at the back!”
There had been no change in the tempo, but
there was a wicked lilt in the refrain. The fiddle was
singing in high and mischievous glee and the accor-
deon, on certain ground now, was rolling out waves
of jovial melody.
I called on my sweetheart; her name was Miss Brown.
She was having a bath and she couldn’t come down.
/ said "Slip on something; come down for a tick.”
She slipped on the soap and came down pretty quick.
The dancers were caught in the swing of it. There
was buoyant gaiety in every step, and their bodies
were swaying where before it seemed that only their
feet had moved. Around they swept, and around
again. There were a dozen more verses, Myrna knew,
a dozen more episodes, each one utterly unprintable.
Her face grew hot, for she realised that she shared
the knowledge with very person in the room. Robin
was dancing with Tilly Coulter, a lass of eighteen.
Goodness knows what he was whispering to her, for
the girl’s face was aflame and she was biting her lip
in a struggle to retain her gravity. Nancy Mcßride,
her red head thrown back, was frankly laughing,
looking up into Martin Harroway’s long, lugubrious
face.
The tempo quickened slightly. The music, swell-
ing and rising like a climbing wave, reached a soaring
crest, broke into running foam and died away. The
couples separated, the women walking over to the
chairs against the walls and the men crowding around
the open sliding doors of the grain-shed. Robin and
Nancy came to Myrna.
“There will be one more dance,” Robin said.
“You must have that with me.”
“I don’t want to dance,” Myrna said. “Really.
If it’s the last I’ll go over to the house and let Janet
come back. She would not like to miss it.”
“You’ll do no such thing!” Nancy told her.
“You’ll dance with Robin. I’ll go over and relieve
Janet. My dear, don’t you realise that if you live to
be a hundred you’ll never again tread a measure to
music like this—orchestras are tame things, and a
band is a blatant noise without feeling.” Her face
was aglow with fun and pleasure, and she put her
hand on Robin’s arm. “Your grain-shed is happily
christened, Robin. Built from your own trees, roofed
at the wane of the moon, and now this —there will be
no crop failures on Lammas.”
IN the large white bedroom Myrna was already
■ asleep, Kathleen in her arms, Margaret in the cot
beside her. Robin sat in his dressing-room, not
wanting to go to bed. He smoked a final pipe. He
was thinking of Nancy Mcßride.
Nancy knew why he had given the dance. Nancy
could appreciate his feeling for Johnnie McNeil, his
feeling for the building which was to store his grain—
“ Built from your own trees, ‘roofed at the wane of
the moon.’ ” He smiled as he completed the quota-
tion —“ That nothing might warp or burn it.” Holding
in safety the seed which would spring to life, green
and fruitful, in Lammas soil. She knew. Her under-
standing, perhaps, went deeper than this. He believed
that she realised what he had hardly admitted to
himself that the dance had been a wild effort to
escape his thoughts, to find forgetfulness in Johnnie’s
music and the rhythmic monotony of precise steps.
No other form of music, no other dancing, could
have given him his desire ; and, trying hard to dis-
cover the reason, his thoughts moved back to the
day, soon after her arrival, when he had listened to
Nancy playing.
He had heard the music as he came into the
house, and had wondered what new player-roll Myrna
had discovered, for she seldom played herself, and then
with a dragging, hesitating touch which exasperated
Robin. Coming quietly into the library he saw that
it was Nancy Mcßride playing to herself. She
stopped when she saw him, but he begged her to go
on, and, when it was over, asked “What was it?”
“Chopin— Etude number seven. Do you like it?”
“Yes,” he said. “I had no idea you could play
like that.”
“I should do better.” She laughed. “Very much
better, for all the money that was spent on me. „ I’m
afraid I’m rather a failure.”
“You have had good teachers, then?”
“Yes, the very best. And three years abroad.
My people thought I was a genius, but I wasn’t.”
“I didn’t know that—-that you had travelled, I
mean.”
“Oh, yes. I had a wonderful time, really. Even
though I’m not a genius I love music, and for three
years I lived it, dreamed it, breathed it. Once I
thought if I couldn’t play I could compose, but I
wanted to. do great things all at once, and it never
came to anything.”
“Why not? Did you try?”
“No, I never even tried. Really, I knew too much.
I knew that what I wanted to do could not be done.”
“Tell me about it,” he asked. “What did you
want to do?”
“I wanted to start straight off and write a sym-
phony that was different. The wish came after hear-
ing the Beethoven Fourth played in Berlin. But the
symphony I wanted couldn’t be done in the way I
wanted it—not by me, not by anyone. Leaving out
all the technical impossibilities, my symphony would
have represented a life moving through a succession
of years. That is the central theme. All around,
coming in from everywhere, are little melodies and
phrases ; they move along, some blending and building
up the central theme, others dropping out after a
while, but all of them having an influence on the flow
of the music. There is one phrase which in the begin-
ning is but faintly heard. Again and again it comes,
growing clearer, more insistent —a menacing, frighten-
ing thing. Clearer still and louder, drowning all other
melodies and fighting for mastery over the main
theme. Then in the last movement there is a change
of orchestration. The strings have the main theme,
leading up, higher and higher, until the tone is trium-
phal, the spirit of the life I am showing rising alone.
But all the time, in undertones like the mutter of
thunder, you can hear the menacing phrase until it
breaks through with a crash, terrible in its power,
dominating everything, grasping and absorbing the
life theme. In the blending of the two something
glorious arises, beating up and up on the wings of
sound to a breathless, splendid finale.”
She laughed again, and, turning to the piano,
abruptly started to play “A Hundred Pipers.”
“That’s for you.” She spoke over her shoulder.
“I’m Irish, but all the same the Scottish songs are
better —they’ve more guts to them. But both have
this in common, and in common with all ballad music
and folk-dances —a rhythmic swing ; and it’s rhythm
makes the world go round!”
ROBIN started to undress slowly. That was it, he
thought: “Rhythm makes the world go round.”
Rhythm was in all natural motion—in the tides of
the sea, in the growth of plants, in the beat of a heart.
Rhythm gave power to Johnnie McNeil’s music,
pleasure to the movements of a dance. He knocked
the ashes from his pipe through the open window,
humming softly
“I once met a lady who wouldn’t behave.
She took off her clothes on her grandfather’s grave”. ..
Chapter VII,
AS Robin rode in he saw that the
Malwa car was standing on the
Lammas drive. He hoped that his
father had come over, for he
wanted to ask him about some rams.
He needed fresh blood, and hoped to be able
to take the pick of the Malwa flock rams,
knowing that Donald had held back a number of
specials from the mid-winter sales. However, when
he walked into the library he found that only his
mother had come. He could not help feeling amused
when he saw the room. Nancy Mcßride was out
somewhere seeing to tea, and Myrna, as always
happened when she was alone with Mary Stewart,
looked just as she felt, uncomfortable and slightly
bristling. His mother, he knew, was thoroughly enjoy-
ing the situation. She was perfectly assured, and at
the moment talking of unimportant things with a
brittle smile which was a deliberate, half-cloaked con-
tempt for an opponent uncertain and very much on
the defensive.
Myrna was grateful for his interruption. He
would stay now until afternoon-tea was over, prob-
ably until his mother left, and Mary would have no
opportunity of cornering her and extracting from her
details of the life at Lammas and the state of Robin’s
affairs. This was what Myrna always dreaded ; and
she was never sure whether Mary sought information
or was merely baiting her, knowing that she knew
very little of Robin’s business, and, in a turmoil of
ignorance and loyalty to her husband, would flounder
helplessly and leave herself open to cruel wounding
from Mary’s needle-sharp sarcasm.
Watching Robin and his mother, she thought:
“No one else in the world can bring life and warmth
to that cold face.” They seemed to understand each
other so well and were really very alike, though it
was only when Mary showed animation that the blood
relationship became evident. Myrna had never before
seen the resemblance so clear, and a flash of intuition,
one of those unreasoned impulses by which she set
such store, warned her that Robin’s mother was a
greater menace to her happiness than she had realised.
Nancy Mcßride came in with a laden tray, and
Robin moved a light table for her in front of his wife.
Half-way through tea the telephone bell rang,
and Robin walked down the hall to his office to answer
it. It was a cable, Exchange said; would he take it
over the ’phone? Confirmation would come by mail
two days later. The cable was from Mrs. Freeman.
"War Office reports Lieutenant Boyd Free-
man killed in action.”
Robin said “Thank you” mechanically, and hung
up the receiver. His desk was open; he straightened
some papers on it and pulled down the roller-top. He
took a pipe and a tobacco-pouch from a cupboard
beside the desk and thrust them into his pocket. He
walked with even steps back to the library. Every
action was involuntary, and not until he had passed
through the library door did he realised that he had
a message to give to the people in it —a message, he
quickly decided, which he was not going to give. He
sat down in the seat he had left and stretched out his
hand for the helf-empty cup of tea. It was stone-
cold, but he did not notice.
Mary and Myrna were talking as though nothing
had happened. “Of course,” he thought, “nothing
has happened for them.” He felt his eyes were being
drawn to the opposite side of the room, where Nancy
sat. It was quite a struggle, he thought, with some
detached corner of his mind, not to look up. Why
shouldn’t he look up? Nancy was as much unknow-
ing as his wife or his mother. But when he saw her
face it was chalk-white and she was staring at him
with wide-eyed dread. A flood of mad raged surged
over him —was this what Myrna called a woman’s
intuition? What right had Nancy to know? What
right had she to be afraid and sorry? The hurt was
his. He had no wish to share it. He gulped down
the dregs of his tea and stood up.
“Good-bye, mother,” he said, and was glad to
find his voice quite normal. “I have work to do.”
“Oh, Robin!” Myrna was agitated. “Don’t go
yet. Wait to see your mother off.”
Myrna, he knew, didn’t want to be left alone
with Mary. But he said “Sorry, I must go.”
AT the stable, when he was buckling the girths of
his saddle, he felt a touch on his arm, and, turning,
found Nancy beside him. Good God! Couldn’t she
let him alone! His rage hotter than ever, he said,
without raising his voice, “Go to hell!”
“Then it was for you ... I thought perhaps”
He remembered with a rush of self-condemnation
that her two brothers were in the firing-line, probably
had been in the same battle.
“Yes,” he told her more quietly, “for me, Nan —
Boyd Freeman.”
“Killed?”
“Yes.”
There was a momentary tightening of the hand
on his arm, and she was gone.
HIS first thoughts as he rode were of Nancy. What
a contemptible egoistic cad he had been! But
even with the thought the weight of his own sorrow
became insupportable. Could a man stand up under
this? Could a man live? He felt wretchedly ill, and
yet his limbs were strong enough ; muscles played
easily to the movement of the horse he rode, and his
hands were steady and sure to control the eager life
beneath him. This physical distress, then, must be an


illusion. He passed his hand across his forehead, half
expecting to find it wet, but his skin was hot and dry.
Again and again swept over him waves of terrific
emotion utterly beyond his control. All that he had
pushed from his mind —disappointment, jealousy,
apprehension, the thought of death and agony and
fear—came now unchecked, surging up to overtake
and swell this fearful tide of grief. His mind was
chaotic, a tumbling froth of passions. He rode on
with drooping body—blind, mad. After a time he
became aware that he was sweating. His whole body
was drenched with it, and a breath of wind made
him shiver.
With the breaking of the sweat, he felt shaky and
a little weak —a looseness in the joints of his legs and
arms. But his brain was clearer, and he felt that he
could stand this and more. Human endurance must
be beyond all knowledge. There were many others
suffering as greatly as he, even more intensely. He
thought of the men who had landed at Anzac, of the
Turkish infantrymen, weak, half-fed, and rotten with
malaria and dysentery, who had dragged the heavy
guns across the desert in an abortive attack on the
Canal and, after weeks of misery and superhuman
effort, had no reward but the bitterness of defeat —•
and a healthy self-contempt came to his aid, bracing
his shoulders, giving new strength to his mind.
He had been riding aimlessly, but he turned the
mare’s head now towards the wheatfields, pulling her
together, stirring her up, until she was on her toes
and on edge to bound away. He held her in with
conscious power, allowing himself this outward symbol
of mastery over his own rebellious emotions.
HARROWAY’S wheat was well forward,
■ I healthy and vigorous. The Lammas earth was
richer than Malwa. The yield even in virgin soil
would be heavy...
Shot through the heart —that’s what the news
would be when details were available. They were
always shot through the heart or the head—like Fred
Hare—died instantly! Relatives and lovers were only
too ready to believe these letters from chaplains and
company commanders. Perhaps it was better so ...
He would soon have to think of crop insurance ;
a comprehensive policy against fire and hail. The
premium was heavy, and he remembered that the
share-farming contract contained no reference to
insurance. There would have to be a special arrange-
ment between Harroway and himself. He would ride
up to the farmer’s cottage now and talk the matter
over. It seemed only reasonable that, since Harroway
was getting two-thirds of the yield, he should pay two-
thirds of the insurance money. But Martin might
not want to insure against both fire and hail, and only
a policy covering both would satisfy Robin. It was
the cover against hail which was so expensive. Very
likely Martin could not afford it. „
He wished he knew someone who would tell him
truthfully how Boyd died. Boyd had been in an
English battalion, and there was no one to write to ...
If it were only a matter of money he could help
Harroway ; lend him the insurance premium until the
wheat was stripped and 501 d...
Perhaps if he wrote to one of the junior subalterns
he would get a truthful reply. He didn’t know any
of them by name. Boyd had never mentioned anyone
as being a particular friend. Suppose he addressed
the letter to the Company-Sergeant-Major—that
might do ...
Donald Stewart was already buying wheatsacks
and had advised him to do so too. There was a likeli-
hood that bags would go to an exorbitant price before
the end of the season, and a big saving would
be effected by buying now. There was plenty of room
to store them in the new grainshed. The bags for
Martin Harroway’s share of the wheat were of course
the farmer’s own concern, but he would tell him what
Donald had said. His father would be right—he had
an uncanny knack of judging markets months before-
hand ...
He must write straight away to Boyd’s mother.
They were very badly off. He didn’t know what she
would do now. He wondered if Myrna would agree
to bringing her to live with them. He was sure she
would. He would cable ...
Martin might not be able to take advantage of
the present price. It was always so. The people who
needed it most could never get the benefit from for-
ward buying or bulk prices. They never had the ready
cash. He wondered how Carl Schreiber was doing.
He must tell him about the bags too. He had heard
that Carl was having a hard struggle since he had
bought his own land. Lately a lot of curious accidents
had happened to the Schreibers —fires and losses and
stock deaths. He wondered if they really were acci-
dents. Schreiber was a German, and was getting a
rough time from some of his neighbors. It was hard
on Clare. She at least was pure British ...
There was everywhere an intense hatred against
the Germans. Far more than against any of the other
enemy nations. A personal, individual hatred. Prob-
ably it was deliberately fostered by Government propa-
gandists. Boyd had had a great admiration for the
German people. Most of his vacations had been spent
in Germany, and his letters had spoken of the kind-
ness and courtesy which had always been shown
to him ...
He noticed a break in the netting, and, getting
Dff his horse, he stopped the hole with sticks. To-
morrow he must come down and repair it properly ...
Boyd had been fighting against Turks, not Ger-
mans. But it wouldn’t have made any difference.
The Germans would have killed him just as readily—
and he them ...
He couldn’t repair the fence to-morrow ; he was
going to Naranbah. He must remember to ask Marlin
to see to it...
This business of killing and being killed—it was
without reason. Yet it was what he wanted to do ;
what he had wanted to do ever since war broke out. He
was not brutal ; life was very dear to him, and he
would probably be afraid of mutilation —afraid of
the maddened faces and the flickering steel—but not
to-day. To-day he would have no fear of death —
would kill and be killed with a will, as mad —madder
—than any of them ...
Across the green wheat he could see a dray moving
steadily over newly-ploughed ground. Martin Harro-
way was still ploughing. It was getting late in the
season, but he wanted to get as much ground under
crop as possible, and since Martin was at no expense
for seed-wheat he would keep on sowing until Robin
called a halt...
Death amongst the bayonets! It was hard to
conceive the passions which took charge of men in
a hand-to-hand conflict...
Martin Harroway sowed wheat in the old way,
scorning a seed-drill, throwing the grain with both
hands, cross-armed, from the back of a dray...
There was a letter he had seen from one of the
men on Gallipoli: —
“About a score of them got in. One of
them, a very tall man, got Tom. It was a
savage thrust, through the throat and into the
ground at the back of the trench. There wasn’t
much room, and he couldn’t pull his bayonet
out. Tom screamed, and the Turk pulled the
trigger—that stopped him, thank God I Harry
Kent bashed the tall bloke over the head with
the butt of a rifle. Then Harry got his—through
the guts.”
Was Boyd killed in sufh a struggle? What would
his feelings have been? Never insane rage...
Martin Harroway’s hands were tremendous.
Nancy said laughingly that he could hold a bushel of
wheat in each ...
There was no glory in it —just wretched, sordid
bestiality ; a waste, a misuse of splendid courage. He
saw that clearly to-day ; and yet to-day, more than
ever before, he wanted to go. He wanted to share the
misery— not to live here in security and peace. Com-
radeship! The meanest creature who had taken part
in that battle was nearer to Boyd than he would ever
be now ...
At Naranbah there were three thousand hoggets
to draft...
Comradeship! There was no comradeship with
the dead ...
The sheep were heavily woolled and the earmarks
would be hard to see ...
WHY the hell couldn’t he keep his brain from
jumping from thought to thought like this!
Failure to concentrate meant that he didn’t have as
good a grip on himself as he imagined. The feeling
of physical distress was becoming acute again. The
trouble was he was afraid to think of Boyd, and was
trying desperately to concentrate on other things. If
something had to be faced it was better to go through
with it; not to push it into the background. There
was a sane way of looking at everything. It needed
guts, that’s all.
He was lucky to have this chance of being alone.
Before he went home he must arrive at a rational
calm, so that no one would know that for a while the
anguish of spirit had been more than he could bear.
There would be another test when he was home again.
Nancy would say nothing, but Myrna would feel for
him intensely and would show it. Well, he supposed
it was natural to express sympathy, to expect him
to be comforted by it.
His was the unnatural attitude. He didn’t want
sympathy. He didn’t want anyone to know that he
had suffered, that he was still suffering.
If Myrna should try to comfort him he didn’t
know whether an excess of maudlin grief would
unman him or rage make him do and say things for
which he would later be sorry. He didn’t want to go
home. “Run away,” he thought, sneering at himself;
that’s what he was trying to do all the time —trying
to avoid pain and unpleasantness. It was courage that
he lacked—just that and nothing more.
Since he had blocked the hole he had been stand-
ing by the fence, leaning heavily with his arms on
top of a post. He mounted again now and rode
across the wheatfield to catch Martin Harroway. It
was getting late in the evening, and when Robin
reached him the share-farmer was about to stop work
for the day.
He spoke to Harroway about the insurance and
the bags and the fence, deliberately drawing out the
conversation, feeling that in the presence of a dis-
interested party at least he was in perfect control of
his feelings. He rode home at a steady canter.
Chapter VIII.
PETER MACGREGOR was planting
potatoes in the heavy black soil
beside his cottage. He worked
slowly but methodically, straighten-
ing his old back and swaying his body
stiffly to and fro to get the kinks out of it at the
end of each row. Once as he stood up he noticed
his wife hurrying towards him across the plain. He
shaded his eyes with his hand, wondering what could
be bringing her at such a rate. She was almost
running, her black dress brushing through the tali
stalks of dead thistles and sometimes disappearing
altogether as she stumbled into the dip of a gilgi hole.
She was coming back from the mailbox, but what of
importance she could have found in it he could not
guess.
In all the years they had lived on the river there
had been nothing of importance in the mailbox—
until, of course, Malcolm had started writing from
Egypt and then Gallipoli. But that was over now.
Malcolm was dead, though Jessie would never believe
it.
Old Peter was annoyed with Malcolm for dying.
There was no one now to plough and to reap; no
one to attend the ewes at lambing-time. He was too
old to go out on wet nights with a lantern to build
a byre round each laboring mother so that the silly
creature would not leave its lamb when it was dropped.
It was well enough for young Robin Stewart, with his
thousands, to let them take their chance, and if twins
were born and one died it would never be noticed.
But % Macgregor’s flock was too small for that, and
the old cross-bred ewes always dropped twins.
Jessie was struggling through the wires at the
end of the paddock. .Drat the woman! Couldn’t she
come quietly? It was a mile and a half from the
cottage to the mailbox, an oildrum wired to a gate-
post, on the main road. The sulky-mail running
between Croy and the Gap came past twice a week,
and in the old days the drum had been left unemptied
sometimes for weeks at a stretch. Then there would
be nothing in it but circulars and machinery cata-
logues. When Malcolm went to the war Jessie had
insisted on going each day to the mailbox. Though
her son’s letters came only at long intervals she had
never missed a coach day since the week of his sail-
ing. Her husband could read and write but she could
not, so she must bring the letters to him to find out
what was in them ; but from the beginning she had
known the difference between her son’s writing and
the addresses from machinery firms and the store and
advertising agents.
When word came that Malcolm was missing she
was unperturbed, and when later his death was an-
nounced she had refused to believe it, and had con-
tinued to make her pilgrimage twice weekly to the
box on the main road.
She was close to Peter now, waving a letter in
his face, her own wet with tears and the sweat of
her running.
“Wad ye call me a saft fool still!” she said.
“Look, man, look! Is it no’ fra Malcolm?”
“Ay,” he said sombrely. “ ’Tis Ira Malcolm.”
She sat down suddenly on the fresh, turned earth,
her nervous fingers picking helplessly at the envelope.
She thrust it at him.
“Open it, feyther,” she said, “for I canna.”
Reluctantly he took it from her shaking hands.
He understood what she did not, that the letter which
had taken a month or more to reach them had been
written before the boy was killed.
IN the late spring, when the wild may was all
ablow on the hills, Robin received Boyd’s last letter.
He saw it among a pile of letters and papers after he
had shaken the mailbag on to the floor of the library.
Myrna and Nancy were on their knees beside him as
he emptied the bag, but neither of them noticed it,
and he slipped it quickly into his pocket, intending to
read it some time when he was alone. How he came
to leave it there so long was a puzzle to him in after
years. He could not believe that he forgot it. It
was more probable that he shirked reading it. How-
ever, it was two days later that Myrna, having found
it in his coat, brought it to him in wide-eyed horror.
He saw that it was opened.
“Have you read it?” he asked.
“Of course,” she told him. “Robin, how could
you forget it like that?”
He made no comment, but thrust the letter again
in his pocket and walked away. He was always
annoyed at this habit of hers of opening his letters.
He had asked her not to, but she had quite failed to
see his point of view, and had been huffy about it for"
days, but still continued to open his mail. He had
nothing to hide, and didn’t mind showing her any-
thing she wanted to see, but he had been brought up
to believe that personal letters were the most private
of all things, and he would never have dreamt of
opening any of hers. Probably his attitude was
unreasonable, he thought, and did not press the point.
THE letter was written in pencil. It was headed
Gallipoli and dated August 3. Boyd spoke first
about his mother, asking Robin to write to. her, for
she had but few friends in England and was having
a hard and anxious time.
“I have only one excuse for worry in this
war,” Boyd wrote. “And that is Mother. For
some reason during the last twelve years she
and I have achieved a pretty close companion-
ship. Ten years of widowhood, with constant
worry, ill-health and bitter economy to give me
a good start, have made her keep her thoughts
and feelings to herself, except to just a few
people. I’ve no particular ambition in life at
present, beyond making the end of hers happy
and comfortable, for which reason l want to
dodge the bullets if possible.
“Well, I’ve had three weeks of this place
and am very fit and contented. When the rest
landed I was invalided to Lemnos by the ship’s
surgeon, and only rejoined them in the trenches
after four days. The next week I had rather a
thin time, mainly due to the heat and being still
weak, but for the past fortnight I daresay I’ve
been the most contented officer in the battalion.
“We’ve not been in anything big yet,
though we show a considerable wastage —about
10 per cent.; casualties mainly due to snipers,
but quite a lot to shellfire and accidents. About
one in three of these casualties are killed, for a
sniper generally gets you in the head. No
officer has been hurt, though several are sick.
“I run two platoons—nominally a hundrea
men ; in fact, about sixty-five—and have the job
of second-in-command, so I’ve a fair amount to
do, but am not at all overworked. Sleep was
the main trouble in our last twelve days in the
trenches, but we’ve had two days in reserve, and
I’ve made up.
“My own platoon has had the most excite-
ment, partly because it’s on a flank always, and


partly because I’m senior. We prepared once
to support a desperate charge, but it was
countermanded, and our thrills were for no-
thing. However, we did support an advance
up an enemy trench which had been disorgan-
ised by a shell or two, and, between you and
me, it was part of my platoon which in the end
did most of the dangerous work. Then in out
last trenches we had a job of guarding a sap
which at the end was a deathtrap. I worked
out a scheme for making it safe, but it seems
you’re not supposed to make things safe here,
and a wrong report got to headquarters that I
was retiring from it, which was a damned lie,
and I had to reinstitute the old system. Result,
one man killed horribly next night, and his
fellow-sentry’s nerve broken. I expected it, and
so did my poor old platoon.
“From the end of the sap I saw my first
Turk (lots of us —in fact, most of us — haven’t
seen a live one yet), and I got a square shot at
one at thirty yards range. I hadn’t an observer,
but I reckon him dead. I had darkened a little
dugout with a blanket so they couldn’t see any-
thing through the loophole, and this fellow was
actually looking straight at me for twenty
seconds before I pressed the trigger. I was
rather pleased with the idea. The chap I fired ♦
at was one of a pair who got our best sergeant
that morning. A grand fellow who joined the
army about when I was born. He was always
cool and steady and always cheery. He was a
terror for sniping, and had four of theirs, so
he ‘made him a bed of dead to lie on.’ He took
big risks, and I’m not sure he wasn’t looking
for a bullet.
“We’re probably going to be put into some-
thing big before long. However, if I get
knocked in it that fact will have been cabled
before you get this letter. So if no cable has
come you can take it that l have come safely
through quite a big experience. I can’t say any-
thing about it; in fact, don’t know anything
for certain, but expect it will mean big casual-
ties. If I’m amongst them you might perhaps
congratulate me. It would be dying at my best
in as good a way as a man could die.
“I’m satisfied with this life, Vol. I want
you to realise that. Satisfied, do you under-
stand —contented and at peace with my own
soul. In the beginning I wondered if l was right
or wrong, but now there is no doubt left in my
mind. Only sometimes when I think of Mother
I wish there had been no war. But that doesn’t
alter my conviction that since there had to be
war it is right for me to be here. I know this
just as clearly as I know that you must not
come. You have asked me so often to judge
your case, and have perhaps wondered why I
did not answer. It was never clear till now.
Even now I’m not going to give you reasons.
I will some day, but anything I said now would
only make it harder for you.
“I’m more than ever convinced that war is
wrong, which seems strangely at variance with
what I wrote just now, but is not. This war
had to be. None of us can see when or how it
will end, but this, too, I believe —it will be the
last great war, at least between white peoples.
Its very magnitude and frightfulness will make
the unreason and waste of war terribly clear
to all the world. In the beginning there seemed
to me a choice between two ways—to stand out
and howl with my small voice against the evil
that men did, or to offer my body and brain
as a sacrifice that would speak louder than any
words. It seemed to me that the time was not
ripe for howling. If I come through 1 can speak
with authority, and, what is more, people will
listen to me then, will be ready to hear the
truth. If not, my death will not have been in
vain.’’
ROBIN could get but little comfort from the letter.
That Boyd was content to die might be true, but
that his death was a necessary sacrifice he would never
believe. It seemed a strange philosophy, this giving
up of life to draw attention to existing evils. Selfishly
he was glad Boyd had chosen this way rather than
pacifism. Dr. Spencer in Croy called himself a pacifist,
and there were others —utterly insincere, he knew.
His relations were hinting the same thing about lan
Graham, his cousin, giving him this excuse —for he
could have no other —for not enlisting. Was Gillson
Brain a pacifist too? he thought maliciously. But this
was unworthy. No one knew how sound another
man’s reasons were. No one had any right to judge
—especially no one who was safe behind a perfect
barrier of obvious excuses.
Thinking of the letter, Robin had the uncom-
fortable feeling that these obvious excuses had weighed
very little with Boyd Freeman. He would of course
take small notice of what he would term obligations
imposed by possessions, and must have excused his
friend for entirely different reasons. Robin would
never know now what those reasons were, but he
knew well that if it were not for possessions nothing
would hold him at home. He thought miserably “If
Boyd could sacrifice ambition, his mother’s savings,
his mother’s happiness, would it be so wrong for me
to throw everything to the winds? The bank has
security. Myrna and the children would be cared
for by my father.”
To hell with his Scottish blood, which gave him
wild impulses! To hell with everything! Day fol-
lowed day and there was no escape. All things
accused him; all things held him back. The very
books he loved had leagued themselves against him,
until on every page he found torment where comfort
should be:
“They are renowned in war, but I must sit
alone on the banks of Balva, when the roar of
the battle grows. Stay by the grey streams of
thy land, he said; moulder like a leafless oak
which the winds have bent over Balva, never
more to grow.”
Chapter IX,
uw DON’T think you have any need
|| to worry now,” Dr. Morgan said.
HL “Keep her quiet for a day or two.
There is certainly no need to send
for Robin, and you say he will be back
to-morrow. You could not have done more than
you did ; nor could I, had I been here earlier.” He
patted Myrna on the shoulder in a fatherly way
which she would have resented from anyone else but
which seemed so natural from him. “And you get
a good sleep to-night. Your eyes are like holes burnt
in a blanket.”
Mary Stewart came out of the bedroom.
“She’s sleeping still quite peacefully,” she said,
then, looking at Myrna as though she was seeing her
for the first time, “Tell Robin from me that you’ve
got to have a holiday—you and the children. Go to
my cottage at Cronulla —it’s empty at present —and
take Nancy with you. I’ll send you all down in the
Malwa car; it has to go to Sydney to be repainted.
He has no right to keep you here through all this
heat. Don’t tell me you didn’t want to go. I know
that; but he should have sent you.”
Myrna saw them both to the doctor’s car. She
looked very thin and worn, Mary thought, and knew
it was not solely due to anxiety over Kathleen’s illness.
She felt sorry for her daughter-in-law, but at the
same time irritated. She was not made for country
life in this climate, Mary thought; she probably hated
it, and had not enough personality or strength of
purpose to draw Robin away from it. If she would
only make an effort she would find a ready ally in
Robin’s mother. But some misguided sense of loyalty
kept her moping at Lammas, out of sympathy with
Robin’s interests and unhappy in her surroundings.
Mary gave a little jerk of impatience as she pulled
the light dust-rug over her knees.
“Why don’t you get a new car?” she asked Dr.
Morgan. “Don’t any of your patients pay you? This
account is mine. You shall have settlement before
you leave Malwa ; then you can at least buy a hood!”
She turned to Myrna with a grimace. “Robert is
doing something or other to the Minerva, so we had
to come over in this! Never again!”
Dr. Morgan laughed, and shook hands with
Myrna.
“Tell Robin,” he said, “that John has got his
captaincy. His arm had to come off, but it’s the left
one. They’ve given him a job in England. He won’t
be coming home.”
THE tail-light of the car passed through the gate
at the end of the drive and Myrna walked back
into the house. She would put Margaret into the bed
in Robin’s dressing-room to-night and Kathleen could
stay in the cot. Dr. Morgan thought she would be
all right now. Nancy and Robin would be home
to-morrow night, and then Margaret could go into
the spare bed in Nancy’s room.
Myrna was worn out from the heat and the
wakefulness of the previous night, when she had sat
up watching Kathleen, wondering in a fever of
anxiety what more she could do to bring comfort to
the little panting body. She felt now a sense of
resentment. The only time she had really needed her
Nancy had been away. She felt that shd would like
to let Nancy go altogether ; but Robin would never
listen to that, and neither would Mary Stewart. Nancy
no doubt was very capable and a cheerful “companion
—at least, she thought with a momentary spitefulness,
Robin seemed to find her so. She always took Robin’s
part, made excuses for his moodiness, talked intelli-
gently to him about stock and wheat, rode his horses
—even the precious polo ponies—and played. Of
course Nancy had had years of study and good
teachers, but Myrna herself could play well enough,
though for some reason Robin would never stay to
listen to her —always had work to do!
She was silly to be thinking like this. She was
very tired and not herself. She would have Janet
bring her some supper and go straight to bed.
It was only yesterday that Robin and Nancy had
ridden to Naranbah, though it seemed an age ago.
Myrna herself had suggested that Nancy should go.
Robin had to take a mob of horses over, and had
been expecting a hard ride, for the man he had
engaged to help him had been thrown from a horse
the day before and badly hurt. Ted Cluff could not
go with him, as he could not be spared from Lammas
with Robin away. Both Robin and Nancy had leapt
at Myrna’s suggestion that Nancy should go. Nancy
herself would not have thought of it, but Myrna had
the feeling that the same idea had been in Robin’s
mind, for Nancy rode like a man, and would be just
as much help to him.
They had left early on Saturday morning, but
before evening Myrna was in two minds whether or
not to send Ted Cluff post-haste to Naranbah to bring
them both back, for Kathleen had become suddenly
very ill. At midnight, when her baby was obviously
worse, she had tried to get in touch with Dr. Spencer
in Croy, ringing desperately at a dead telephone until
she remembered that from midday Saturday until
Monday morning there was no one at the Croy
exchange. Then she had roused Ted Cluff and sent
him galloping the seven miles to Croy. At three in
the morning he was back, only to tell her that Dr.
Spencer had left on the train that day and there was
no doctor in Croy. She was desperate, not knowing
how to deal with the situation.
She had lived through a ghastly night, sure that
Kathleen would die. Half-way through next morning
she remembered that Malwa was connected with
Clune and if she sent Ted Cluff to Malwa he could
bring Dr. Morgan.
“If there were only someone to drive the car!”
she said to Janet. “If Miss Mcßride were here!”
“Lor’!” Janet exclaimed. “Mr. Cluff can drive.”
“Then why didn’t he take it last night?”
“You never asked ’im to. It ain’t ’is car.”
Myrna thought “They’re mad, these people! ”
She would never understand them, nor they her.
Even Janet, who had been with her for three years.
“Mr. Cluff!” To Robin, even to Nancy, it would
have been “Ted,” but she was an outsider. They
were respectful, but their careful respect was itself
an insolence compared with the easy friendliness with
which they treated Robin.
So Ted had driven the car to Malwa, going off
in a cloud of dust with a roar of open exhaust. Prob-
ably Robin had taught him to drive, as he had taught
Nancy, though he had never spoken of it. Late in
the afternoon Dr. Morgan came, bringing with him,
to Myrna’s astonishment, Mary Stewart. Kathleen
was better when he arrived, but he and Mary stayed
to tea and for a while afterwards to relieve Myrna’s
mind of any fears. Dr. Morgan had praised her for
her treatment of the baby, and even Mary Stewart
had been gracious and sympathetic. She had been
very anxious when she arrived, and Myrna thought:
“It’s because Kathleen belongs to Robin” —and then
pathetically, for she was grateful and feeling reaction
to danger past, “Doesn’t she realise that I belong to
Robin too?”
ON Monday morning when they were leaving
Naranbah Robin told Nancy that they would take
the short cut through Tucka-Bil paddock and on to
the main road which ran from Croy to the Gap. He
wanted her to see the view from the crest of Tucka-
Bil Ridge. For no reason other than a country man’s
natural interest in the security of his boundary fence
he had ridden from the top of the ridge a mile out
of his way to the creek crossing. He was rewarded
for his caution by finding a flood break in the fence
and sheep-tracks leading through it into the Corner.
The tracks were at least a week old, and he told
Nancy they would have to ride back to the homestead
and send men out straight away to recover the sheep
and repair the fence. A closer look at the tracks
made him change his mind. Over the marks of the
sheep’s hooves he believed he could trace the imprint
of a dog’s foot. It was very faint, so indistinct that
he could not be certain that it really was a dog-pad,
but it was enough to rouse his suspicion. He walked
through the fence and a little way up the creek, but
could discover nothing definite. He came back to
Nancy.
“Nan,” he said, “I’m going to follow the tracks
myself—now.”
For a time they kept beside the creek and the
tracking was easy, but within a couple of miles the
sheep had turned up on to a scrubby ridge, and in
a short while there was no sign of them. They rode
around together for an hour or so but failed to pick
up the tracks again, and about midday Robin drew
rein beside a rocky waterhole.
“We’ll have lunch here,” he said, “then you must
go back. Do you think you can find your way all
right?”
“Go back where?” she asked. “To Naranbah?”
“No, home. I don’t want anyone at Naranbah
to know I’m here.”
“But what are you going to do?”
“I’m going to the waterholes and to Yugilla
Springs. I’ll camp there to-night.”
“Yugilla!” she said. “Can’t I come too?”
He said irritably “No, you can’t!”
“I can’t find my way back from here,” Nancy
said, and he knew she lied.
“Don’t be silly,” he said. “If you don’t go now
it will be too late to get back. We can’t camp out
here all night alone.”
“Why not?”
“You know perfectly well why not.”
She looked at him with a serious face, but her
eyes were alight with fun.
“I won’t seduce you, Robin. I wouldn’t take
advantage of this lonely spot, where no one would
hear you scream for help.”
“Oh, shut up!” he said, but started to laugh.
“Nan, you’re impossible. You ass, we really can’t
do it. You know this district. They’d all be down
on us like a ton of bricks.”
She rubbed her horse’s forehead, pretending to
talk to it.
“Now why does he want to tell the whole district
about it?” she said. “And we could look at water-
holes, too —just you and I —save him such a lot of
riding.”
“Yes,” he flashed at her, “but you couldn’t find
your way back to the Naranbah boundary! Very
well, if you think you can keep it quiet, come.” He
added with a grin “I should know enough by this time
not to argue with a woman.”
“A fat lot you know about women!” She
laughed. “You and your district! I believe at heart
you’re as hidebound and prudish as the rest of them ...
No, I don’t, really ; and if it’s any comfort to you
I wouldn’t camp at Yugilla with anyone else. But I
do want to see it —the valley—and the sunset at Eagle
Rock.”
“It’s too late in the year for that,” he said, “but
you’ll love the springs and the valley. Have you ever
slept on bare ground? You’ll find it damned hard—
and serve you right. You’re lucky it’s summer-time;
you’ll be warm enough. You’ll be mighty hungry,
too, before you get the next square meal. All we have
here are the sandwiches Mrs. Allsop put up for our


lunch. There’s a swag of them, and I have plenty of
tea and sugar, but it will be to-morrow night at least
before we sit at a table.”
He was happy now, glad that she wanted to
come, glad that she was there to help him. It was
most unlikely that anyone would find out. At
Naranbah they would think them home, and the
Lammas people would believe them still at Naranbah.
They would probably tell Myrna all about it. He
would leave that to Nancy.
After a very sparing lunch they set out together,
but before they had gone far he pulled up.
“If you really want to help me,” he said, “we’li
split up here. You take this side of the Corner and
I’ll go north. You have two waterholes to see —one
at the foot of that high bluff and one in the dip just
over that second ridge. When you’ve looked at both
of them ride straight for Eagle Rock. That’s it, that
great square block right ahead. You should reach it a
little before sundown, and if I’m not there wait for me.”
“What am I to look for?”
“Sheep-tracks, of course, and dog-tracks and
horse-tracks, shod hooves.”
“Then you think they’ve been stolen?”
“I don’t know. Keep an eye on the country you
ride over, too ; you may come across some sign of
them.”
“Other than tracks?”
“Of course. It’ll be too hard for tracks. But
there are other things: bits of wool caught on scrub
—no, it’s too close to shearing for that —oh, just any
indications.”
IT was quite a while before sunset when Robin rode
to the rock', but Nancy was there waiting for him.
“I’ve found nothing,” he told her.
“Well, 1 have!” She was jubilant.
“Where? At the bluff hole?”
“No, not at either water. Not far from here.”
She turned in the saddle and pointed. “Do you see
that clump of myalls? Well, just beyond that. Horses,
too —one, anyhow. They must have camped there
quite a while. How many in the mob, do you think?”
“By the look of the tracks at the crossing, a couple
of hundred at least, maybe a lot more. Those myalls
are on our way to the springs. I’m sure they’ve been
taken there now, and I’m sure we’ll see signs of them
again in Yugilla Valley.”
AS they came through the tunnel he knew that he
was right, for at the entrance was stacked a pile of
brush which had obviously been used to block the
valley. The leaves on the bushes were hardly dry, and
the sheep must have been there only a few days before.
At the springs they found further proof in the shape of
a quartpot and a leather carrier which had been left
behind by some careless rider.
Before he touched it Robin knew that his early
suspicions had been correct. When he first bought
Naranbah he had given each of his men a quartpot
and cover of special design, and that in front of him
was undoubtedly one of them —kidney-shaped, with
brass buckles and rings on the carrier. Taking it up,
he saw clearly burnt on the leather flap the initials
“M.A.” He handed it to Nancy.
“Milton Allsop!” he said.
“Then,” she said slowly, “you have him where you
want him. He must have been responsible for the
others —the three thousand.”
“I have no doubt of that, but I haven’t got him.”
“Why?”
“I can’t prosecute him.”
She looked at him in wonder, and then, thinking
she knew his reason, she said “You don’t want to
involve me —to let people know I’ve been here with
you? Don’t worry about that. Honestly, 1 don’t
mind in the least. I’ll give evidence for you.”
“Oh, it’s not that,” he said. “I hadn’t thought
of it. It’s just that I’ve got no convincing evidence
against him.”
“My goodness! What more do you want?”
“How many convictions have you known for
sheep or cattle stealing? Most of them are caught
red-handed, and not one in a hundred gets a sentence.
And in this case it would be worse than useless to start
proceedings. But I know him now. I can sack him.
It’s cheap at a couple of hundred head.”
She said no more, and he turned to her savagely
as though defending his actions against her unspoken
criticism.
“Also there s his wife,” he said. “And I once
saw two men arrested for cattle stealing —and an old
man die because of it.”
He stripped the surcingles from the saddles and,
using the saddle-cloths as pads, buckled the broad
straps around each horse. Then he took two stirrup-
leathers and, passing these through the surcingles,
buckled them loosely around each horse’s forelegs
and took off the bridles.
“That’s new to me,” Nancy said. “Is it as
effective as foot hobbles?”
“Oh, yes,” he told her, “so far as running away
is concerned, but they can’t lie down. They can feed
about though, and will be much better than if they
were tied up all night. We can’t risk losing them.”
THOUGH the night was mild Robin built up the
fire when darkness came. A fire was a cheerful
thing on any night, he said. Nancy watched the light
flickering across the stone face of Minyago Yugilla.
“You’re right,” she said. “I want to stay happy
to-night. It was happiness made me come with you
to-day. Was I very wrong? At least I found out
about your sheep.”
She lay down and pulled the saddle under her
head.
“Not that way,” Robin told her. “That’s only
how people think a saddle is used for a pillow. With
your head propped up and held in a crack like that
you’d have a fine stiff neck in the morning. Turn it
sideways—so. Now put your head on the padded
flap. If you’re a true bushman you won’t mind the
sweaty smell.”
He was nearly asleep when he heard her chuckling.
“What is it now?” he asked.
“I’ve been saying my prayers.”
“Please, God, make me a good little girl?”
“No, I don’t ask impossibilities. When we were
kids—wild Irish, all of us—we had an old Cornish
woman for nurse, and she taught us some weird
prayers. One of-them stayed in my mind, but I’ve
found no use for it until now.”
“Well, what is it?”
She propped herself up on her elbow, facing him
in the darkness, and said in a low mock-fearful voice:
“From ghoulies and ghosties and longleggedy beasties
and things that go ‘bump! ’ in the night, dear Lord
defend me!”’
THEY were up with the first light, for he said “All-
sop must know he’s left his quartpot here. Prob-
ably he’s only waiting for me to get out of the road.
He might come for it, and I don’t want him to find
us together.”
At the boundary fence they parted.
“Good-bye,” he said. “I don’t know when I’ll
be home. You’d better tell Myrna everything. Tell
her, too, that I don’t want any word to get about
concerning Allsop.”
Chapter X.
JIM MUMFORD greeted Robin with
a wave of the hand and walked over
to him.
“Young man,” he said, “will you
ride Billy the Bee” —there was a scornful
twist to his voice as he pronounced the name- —“for
me in the Farmers’ Hacks? You’ll be havin’ no
entry in that event.”
“Certainly,” said Robin. “But what about Villa?
Or wouldn’t you rather win with him yourself?”
“Tot’s too light to show him off well. He’d look
like a jockey perched on his withers, and he’d jerk the
creature’s head about trying to hold him. And I
wouldn’t ride in a show-ring. I’m just old Jim, with
long pants and a crooked leg and a humped back.
If it was scrub-dashin’ or rough-ridin’ Ach! but
I’m too old, too old. Get on him and ride him round
a bit. He’s in great heart and he pulls like a railway-
train, but he’ll go kindly for you, I reckon.”
Robin put his own saddle on the big black and
took him for a trial on to the open ground behind
the booths and sideshows. It certainly was a mag-
nificent horse, probably the best at the carnival, and
a perfect hack. Robin thought “I should win with
him easily,” and then, with an ironic grin, “He’ll beat
Trumpeter in the championship if Jim can get anyone
to ride him. I’ll get Bob to ride Trumpeter and ride
Mumford’s horse myself. I wonder if the old man
will let me take him for the Mixed Hacks. What a
wonderful pair, with Nan on Trumpeter —two blacks
—there’s nothing here to touch them.”
He tightened the reins a little and the big horse
broke into a long, swinging canter. He saw McNa-
marra standing outside the committee tent and laughed
as he remembered the agent’s story of how Jim Mum-
ford had entered his horse.
“Me being secretary,” McNamarra had said, “I
was sitting at the table in the tent when he came up
to fill in his entry paper. Rough as bags. Cleared
his throat —you know the way he does—and spat,
just missing a pile of ribbons. ‘You’ve got a Farmers’
Hack event,’ he says. ‘I reckon I’m only a blasted
cocky now. Put the black horse in.’ ‘What name?’
I asked. ‘James Albatross Mumford.’ ‘Not yours,’
I said ; ‘what d’you call the horse?’ ‘Billy the
Bastard.’ ‘Bless my soul, man!’ I told him. ‘You
can’t put that in.’ ‘All right,’ he says, ‘it’s his name
and its suits him fine. He’s out of The Hoor, and no
one but me knows what his father was. But if you
don’t want him it don’t matter. You can cancel all
my other entries. Ach!’ and he spat again. Well,
you know he’s spent a fair bit on entries in one way
and another, and we were reckoning on a good dona-
tion from him as well. ‘How would it go,’ I said, ‘if
we put him in as Billy the B.?’ ‘Billy the Bee!’ he
says, as if he’d been chewing a sour quince ; and then
he starts to chuckle. ‘All right,’ he says. “We’ll get
some honey out of him before it’s all over.’ ”
CROY was holding its first patriotic carnival. The
profits were to go to Red Cross funds, and never
before had there been such a gathering in the little
railway township. It was a good season, and entries
poured in from everywhere stock and wheat and
vegetables and corn and flowers ; every product of
the land in abundance ; and people flocking to the
showground in all makes of cars and horse-drawn
vehicles. Bob Hare and Nora were there, and the
Brains ; and though Donald Stewart had not come
himself he had sent entries in the shape of sheep and
wheat, and roses from the Malwa garden—all donated
to the cause, and to be sold by auction after the ring
events were over. Practically all the produce and
many of the stock exhibits were to be treated in the
same way. The exhibitors, though keen to win prizes
in competition with neighboring farmers, were treat-
ing the carnival more as a medium for giving than
as a profitable venture.
At Lammas Robin had been preparing for weeks.
He had entries in nearly all the ring events, and had
brought sheep and cattle and what produce he could
get together. Ted Cluff and Martin Harroway had
helped him bring the stock and his string of horses,
while Nancy had driven the car with Myrna and the
children and the two maids. They had brought lunch
and were to have it under the trees beside the ring
with the Hares and the Brains.
ROBIN rode around the ring feeling a horseman’s
pleasure as the loins and quarters of the big black
coiled and uncoiled beneath him like spring steel.
Since Whalebone had gone to Egypt he had ridden
no horse to compare with this, and was certain, if the
judge knew his business, that Trumpeter would stand
no chance with it in the open event. He was not
sorry, for his own horse had already won twice —in
the Ladies’ Hacks, when Nancy had ridden it, and in
the Twelve-stone Hacks.
Thinking of Whalebone, he decided that he must
write immediately to Barney Case to find out what
had happened to the old horse. Since John Morgan
was no longer able to use it, goodness knows what
might have happened to it. He believed that after the
men had come back from the Peninsula they had been
given their own horses again, but had no idea what
would be done with the horses whose owners had been
killed or disabled.
The Battle Of Romani had been fought and
won. Had Whalebone been in that? If so it would
have been its first time under fire. He hoped the
horse was still alive. Barney Case had come through
all right, and so had Nancy’s brother, Paddy Mcßride.
Bernard, the younger brother, had volunteered for
the Flying Corps and was now training to be a pilot.
Robin had heard that the machines they were using in
Egypt were much inferior to the enemy planes and
that it was almost suicidal to go up. But it must be
some time before Bernie was piloting his own machine,
and then he might be sent to another theatre of war.
He would like to join the Flying Corps himself, he
thought. It would be even better than cavalry work.
The Light Horse had been fighting in trenches for
seven months, but now it seemed they were to be
used with their horses in open warfare.
The judge was calling them into the centre, and
only half-consciously Robin pressed the reins on the
black’s neck, swinging him around so that he would
not change step and lose the rhythm of his stride.
Robin was thinking of Romani, trying in vain
to get a mental picture of the battle. What was the
country like? How close did they get to the enemy
before dismounting? Did they have any cover, or
did they lie flat on the bare sand?
The judge was walking along the line of horses,
and Robin touched his mount with the spur, making
it stand well together. But there was no other horse
in this class worth considering.
One of the men who had been in his troop before
the war had had his horse shot at Romani. Robin
remembered her, a nice mare, a bay with a blazed
face. The man, Steve Dent, had been a horse-holder,
and the mare had been killed while he was galloping
back with the led horses. Steve had been trodden on
and badly bruised, but that was nothing.
THE judge was tying the blue ribbon around Billy’s
neck. Well,'that was only to be expected. Robin
took the black twice around the ring and then out to
where Mumford was standing waiting for "him. The
old man was very pleased.
Robin said “I’ll ride him for you in the Open.
My brother-in-law can ride Trumpeter, but your horse
will win. I’ve never ridden anything better.”
“A brumby!” Mumford grinned. “Just a brumby.
All old Jim’s horses are brumbies! Would you give
him to Tot Villa to take to the war?”
“Villa! Is he going? But they’re not taking
their own horses now.”
“No,” the old man growled. “And Tot wouldn’t
get him if they were.”
“But Villa is enlisting?”
“Oh, yes. Tot’s going to be a soldier-boy—l told
him to.”
“You told him to!”
“We talked it over together, and I told him he’d
better go along with his mate.”
“His mate?”
There was an undercurrent in Mumford’s talk
which Robin could not follow. He could not see
Villa enlisting voluntarily, and though he knew Mum-
ford had some hold over the fellow he did not
believe that the old man’s patriotism was strong
enough to make him persuade a useful man to leave
him. Mumford was watching him now with his head
on one side and his little pig eyes half-closed.”
“Didn’t you know Milt Allsop had joined up?”
he said.
“Yes ; but what has that to do with it?”
Mumford gave a scornful “Ach!” and spat
largely.
“You’re too soft for this country,” he said.
“You wouldn’t have been left with a feather to fly
with in the old days. First you lose three thousand
sheep ; you think old Jim worked the double on you,
and then you don’t. You know the cove that took
’em and you don’t say boo to him, just wait till he
takes a few more, and then you let him go! I
reckoned Milt was in it the first time, but he must
have had a mate, and I weren’t at all sure of his mate.
I reckoned Villa was too scared of me, and I’d told
him to keep off. But this time I knew for sure it was
Milt, and so did you—and Tot had a couple of weeks’
holiday just at that time. Now Tot’s going to be a
soldier-boy—and Tot’s scared near white!”
Robin asked for the black horse to use in the
Mixed Hacks, and Mumford said “All right—if you
ride him yourself. I don’t want no woman on him.”
Bob Hare came up just then to say that everyone
was starting lunch, and impulsively Robin turned to
Mumford.
“Come and have lunch with us.”
A strange look came into the old man’s face. In
all his years in the district it was the first time he had
been asked to sit for a meal with any of the station
people. But he cleared his throat loudly. “Ach! Too
many women! ” he said, and turned away, leading his
horse.
(To be continued next week.)


Closing date for the competition is January 31, 1937. But it is not
intended to wait till then before publishing entries; any considered to
have a chance will be paid for and published week by week as they
come to hand.. At the close of the competition ALL the entries will
be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor s hitherto unpublished original work,
and must be accompanied by a declaration to that effect.
Entries must not exceed 5000 words. The special prize of £5 for the
best brief story will go to the best story of 1000 words or less. It, of
course, will also have equal chance with longer entries of taking any
of the other prizes.
Pen-names may be used, but the full names and addresses of the winners
will be published when the results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as he or she desires,
and there is no entry fee.
No member of The Bulletin” staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:—
"Short Story Competition,"
C/o "THE BULLETIN,"
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
mm
Mm
MORE COMFORT
LESS OCEAN
to EUROPE
js
L
Comfort, cuisine, personal service and
delightful shipboard experiences are
outstanding features of “ Duchess ”
travel to Europe. And the sheltered
St. Lawrence Seaway means 1,000 miles
less open Atlantic. Get all details from
any Tourist Booking Agency.
OR
18.7.6
World's Greatest Travel System V
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET - SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Cite mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its- circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House,_ Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Tells of a Remarkable Gift:—
APREACHER OF FIRE
BY S.H. COURTIER
YOU should have no trouble in re-
calling the mysterious evanescence
of the Rev. Silas McArdent, an affair
that caused everybody to seethe with
animosity at the inefficiency of the police
force. That a well-known and perfectly
charming divine, as Mr. McArdent was,
should vanish and leave not a trace was
described as an indelible blot upon the
community.
It was, however, incorrect to say that
Mac did not leave some trace. He
certainly did, and, when I viewed it, I
also seethed with indignation, but not
at the police. My ire was directed to-
wards Mac himself. It was beyond the
bounds of expectation that a man of his
intelligence should turn out to be a half-
baked idiot. Mac was one hundred per
cent, baked as it happened.
He first impinged upon my notice in
connection with a jibbing horse. Quite
a crowd collected in our street to watch
the efforts of the rider to overcome his
steed’s determination to stay put.
The spectators took a hand, including
myself, but the prad treated our persua-
sions with contempt. Then a clergyman
stepped forward. He motioned the rider
to be ready and placed himself at the
rear of the brute. Having exhausted our-
selves and our vocabularies, we regarded
Mac’s entrance into the arena with de-
rision. It was not likely that a parson
should succeed where we had failed.
Mac disappointed those who were ex-
pecting a pretty flow of ecclesiastical
profanity.
“Get up,” he said.
Just those two words. Nevertheless
that horse doubled up, then shot forward
with a squeal of agonised rage and sur-
prise. It was a beautiful start, and the
nag was round the corner —leaving his
rider in the dust at our feet —and out of
sight and hearing before any of us, save
Mac, had realised the fact.
Mac walked away with that air of
Christian humility one should show on
such occasions. Recovering from my
stupefaction; I jumped into a car and set
out in pursuit of the horse. I caught up
to it twenty miles from Melbourne, still
galloping steadily north. Leaping from
the car, I stopped it and made a careful
examination. Although I had antici-
pated something of an unusual nature,
you can picture my astonishment when I
descried on the lower part of the croup
two blisters, each easily six inches in
diameter. One for each word, I per-
ceived.
Wondering what the blisters would
have been like had Mac used, say, Ger-
man compounds, I allowed the tortured
animal to continue on to Cape York and
returned thoughtfully to the city.
THE fruit of my cogitations was that
I decided to attend Mac’s church the
following Sunday. Allow me to say here
that, though I later became Mac’s closest
friend and greatest admirer, I never
entered his church again. His sermon
was too hot altogether. By the time he
had arrived at the peroration, the place
was worse than a Turkish bath. Still, I
was confirmed in
my suspicions—
Mac was a preacher
of fire.
I determined to
make his closer
acquaintance. So I
rang him up, in-
tending to ask for
the privilege of an
interview with the
idea of putting for-
ward a proposition to our mutual bene-
fit, but the conversation was cut short
after one word from Mac. Such a sear-
mg, blistering word I had not encoun-
tered before. It seemed impossible that
so much heat could be concentrated in
one brief exclamation.
“Hello,” he said.
The word absolutely scorched. What
saved me from incineration was that the
word went in one ear and out the other.
That I immediately hung up does not
need emphasising. I could not endure
that kind of language.
All the same, I badly wanted to meet
Mac. I therefore wrote to him request-
ing the interview, but only on condition
that he did not speak during its course.
I stipulated he must answer all my ques-
tions in writing, and, further, he had
better have several fire-extinguishers
handy in case of accident.
The next' day brought a courteous
reply, in which Mac said he would be
delighted to meet me. He promised to
take all reasonable precautions against
the possibility of fire. That seemed fair
enough, so I went along.
HEN I entered his study I was
* * puzzled to find it apparently empty.
Then a muffled voice spoke to me from
the fireplace and I discovered that Mac
had his head up the chimney. All I could
see of him was his feet.
“My dear Wick-Smith,” he said with
emotion. “You are the first man to visit
me in my own home. I welcome you.”
I said I was glad to be there, too, and
complinfented him on his remarkable
power of incandescent speech, which, I
explained, was the reason for my intru-
sion.
“It’s a curse,” Mac replied in molten
tones.
I asked how.
“Just look at me,” he answered. “Do
you find it exhilarating to look at my
boots?”
I confessed the experience was not ex-
citing, though preferable to talking to
him face to face.
“Well,” he went on bitterly, “if you
do not find it pleasant looking at my
boots, how unpleasant must I find it to
have you looking at my boots? Yes,”
he continued with increasing heat, “I’m a
lonely man. I can’t talk to people in a
normal way. I ask you, Wick-Smith, if
you would be happy if, when you said
good day to a man, you singed his eye-
brows and whiskers off; if, when you
whispered into a girl’s ear how much you
loved her, you just managed to save her
life by throwing her into the river? That
happened to me, Wick-Smith. I can’t
speak to people without running the risk
of cremating them. I’m a parson, Wick-
Smith, but I’m human. And I say it’s a
curse.”
“But,” I objected, “you managed on
Sunday without damaging the congre-
gation, though I must say you delivered
a warm sermon.”
“That,” he stated gloomily, “is because
I take care they are not in the line of
fire. I always talk above their heads.
Still, you can’t do that anywhere else
save in Parliament, and just tell me how
I could get elected! There’d be no voters
by the time I had finished electioneering.”
I suggested there might be a way of
alleviating this infirmity.
“Impossible,” he said sadly. “It’s in-
herited, Wick-Smith, part of the con-
stitution of our family. As soon as a
McArdent turns twenty-one, the curse of
speaking words that burn comes upon
him. You have no doubt heard of the
mediaeval punishment of being burnt at
the stake? The term is not quite accurate.
It should be ‘burnt at the stump.’ The
victim was surrounded by the stump-
orators of the day, mostly my ancestors,
and, after each had hurled a few in-
flammatory remarks at him, he perished
in torment.
“We have made our mark in history,
all right, but I’d sooner have sprung of
baser stock. It’s a curse, I repeat.”
Pleased to know that Mac’s affliction
appeared to be permanent, I remon-
strated with him.
“I think,” I told him, “a man like you
is very handy to have around. I’ll show
you if you come with me. But, mind,
no talking unless I say so.” .
MAC peeled himself out of the fire-
place, de-sooted himself, and we
set out. We walked in silence till we
came to a nice, quiet suburban home.
“You see that place?” I said. “It’s
mine. Just at the moment, I’m short of
the. ready. The wife’s out, the kids are
at school, so if you just say a few words
to the place you’re on five per cent, of
the insurance.”
In a few minutes there was a satis-
factory conflagration. In due course i
kept my promise to Mac, for the insur-
ance company had no option but to
come up to scratch.
After viewing the spectacular arrival
of the fire brigade—too late, of course —
we passed on to my brother Joe’s pub.
Joe is one of those popular Bungs who
have difficulty in clearing the bar-room
at six. On this afternoon, he had none
at all. When the time, for the closure
arrived, I guided Mac behind the bar, at
the same time giving him quick instruc-
tions, though advising him not to make
it too fiery.
He gave a splendid performance of a
barman who has reached the limit of his
patience. His “Time, gentlemen, please”
was a masterpiece. The effect was in-
stantaneous. The blokes simply reeled
all over each other in stampeding out.
I was more than pleased. Mac was
just the. man I wanted. We returned to
the parsonage, where Mac resumed his
position in the fireplace and we settled
down to a serious conference.
Mac was doubtful at first of my pro-
posal, but I overcame his scruples, and
so the Wick-Smith Central Heating Co.,
Ltd., came into existence, the shares
being distributed in fifty per cent, lots
between Wick-Smith and McArdent re-
spectively. Mac laid down the proviso
that his part in the firm was to remain
a close secret. I agreed, but insisted in
return that he straightway learn the
deaf-and-dumb alphabet and also that
he never yield to the temptation to
drink metho. Mac gave his word like
a man.
WE took over the premises and fit-
tings of a deflated gas supply and
commenced operations without delay.
Our system was very simple.; in fact,
Mac was the entire system. He merely


m
£
SPECIAL XMAS
VACATION TOUR
4 WEEKS' RETURN TRIP
VISITING
BRISBANE, BALI,
MACASSAR,
SOURABAYA, DARWIN
AND THURSDAY IS.
LEAVING SYDNEY PER S.S. "NIEUW
HOLLAND," 21st DEC., 1936
RETURNING SYDNEY PER M.V.
"MERKUR," 23rd lAN., 1936
Unique opportunity to visit *the East—Java, Bali and The
Celebes. Luxury liners, equipped with every modern con-
venience, transport you by a smooth water route. Countless
attractions await you colourful people, quaint customs,
ancient temples, palatial hotels.
For all particulars and folder No. 61 apply to: —
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY :: TELEPHONE: 87901
make Eastbourne
'J3urHeadquarters
f for the Coronation
For golf, for horse riding on the famous
Sussex Downs, for tennis, cricket and
other sports in season, for good and safe
bathing, for leave or retirement, for the
education of your children—Eastbou rne,
the town of a thousand attractions and
with a climate more equable than that of
the Riviera. Next season, London will
be so crowded, and there’s
no place like Eastbourne.
Write for Official Handbook
to: Dept. 8(>,
Information Bureau,
Eastbourne.
EASTBOURNE
IMPERIAL HOTEL
Most up to date. Ideal position. First
class cuisine and service. Apply
Manager (Dept. 7).
EASTBOURNE Tel. 643
THE HYDRO HOTEL
Facing Sea. J Acres Grounds. (Licensed.)
Sheltered position. Hard and Grass Tennis Courts.
H. &C. Water. Electric Fires. Ballroom
MODERATE INCLUSIVE TERMS
ILLUSTRATED BROCHURE ON
APPLICATION. A.A. GARAGE. R.A.C.
ALBION HOTEL
EASTBOURNE
Facing Sea. Fully licensed.
Every Modem Convenience. Fine Vintage Wines.
Superb English Cooking. Garage. Apptd. AA. R.A.C.
Daily Telegraph —“ The comfortable Albion.’’
Truth —“ The Albion serves a particularly good
dinner.”
LATHOM HOUSE HOTEL
EASTBOURNE Phone 985.
3 minutes Sea. and Bandstand. Central for shopping
and all amusements. Facing South and West.
English Chef. Personal attention to Catering
and Management.
Resident Partners—
G. L. PARKER and H. F. CATER.
Travel Through
CANADA or U.SA
TO
rjlie
Cof° aall ° a
piaNEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" ....... From Sydney February 13
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
sat in the middle of the gasometer and
broadcast orations along the gas pipes.
Our innovationP r °™> “ u P °K'hU h se a l
soon we had most of s houses
linked up with us. Mac’s
wife turned on the heat and heard Mac s
voice stirring the kettle into activity, sne
fdt l h ° u r ° ma Tn 6 so 1 great
entered the kitchen In fact so great
was Macs influence that hu.stands (at
first) rose U P andc fi a^ ed
and canning and tin-fish factories were
everywhere going into liquidation.
It was, obviously, too much to expect
Mac to do the lot extempore. We found
by trial that reading was just as satis-
factory as preaching. In summer, as
one would expect, the load was not as
great as in winter, and Mac was able to
meet the demand by reading the leaders
of the “Ague.” With the approach of
winter, he stepped up the power by in-
terpolating a few damns and blasts
between the “Ague’s” rounded periods
or switching on Sarah Ann s column.
I shall never forget that terrible day
when an Antarctic depression found its
nadir over Melbourne. Only the homes
heated by the Wick-Smith Co. withstood
the icy blast, and then only at fearful
cost to Mac’s finer feelings. He was
compelled to say “hell” twice.
In order to give Mac time off for
sleep and to carry on with his church
work, we made special asbestos records
of his voice. We built up a large re-
serve so that we should not be embar-
rassed if Mac should develop a relaxed
throat, This directed our thoughts to a
profitable sideline. Our hot numbers
were esteemed by radio stations and
dance orchestras. It will be seen, there-
fore, that our affairs were in a flourish-
ing condition.
THEN Mac fell m love, a dizzy dive
1 that landed him well and truly in
the toils of Elsie Perks I have nothing
to say against Elsie She was a bright
little thing, but hardly the girl to make
a perfect wife for a clergyman particu-
larly one ol Macs stern, fire-breathing
type. Taking into consideration Mac s
fatal tongue, I did not take the matter
seriously. 1 naturally thought that soul-
‘ B S S lTd noT an™ ToT'MaTs in &
genuity. What he did was to connect
Elsie’s home with our heating system,
at the same time installing a Wick-Smith
stove, all free of charge. Mac was de-
cent enough to deduct the. cost from his
ss fs '•Mrs?* 2
It was a treat to listen to Mac indulg-
ing tn a passionate love scene in the
gasometer and I often went m to hear
"“Good morning, my darling,” he
would say. “It’s your big Mac on the
pipes with heat for your stove. Are
your lovely eyes shining for me this
morning? And did you have, a sweet
sleep and dream of Mac? And did my
good-night message keep your tiny t
" time Elsie’s kettle would be
and would the eggs for break-
fast > but Mac would beg her not to
feut tQ keep on boiling water
him talk to her> xhe resu i t was
tbat before Mac had half finished what
hg wanted tQ Elsie , s house would
duttered with vessels £u ll of hot
water, while, the wash-house held suffi-
driye a battleship> In fact , it
got [J bad that Elsie W J taking a hot
dadl ever y tW o hours in order to per-
mit Mac tQ make love t 0 her .
j n ite of ad tb j Sj E i s i e st iH remained
a and cold? and Mac deter-
mined tQ settle the affa j r on e way or the
otber
- s^eet one ” he breathed into the
• one n j gb t just before closing down,
s wiU mar ry me? Yes or no? If
{ ben Ed eX p ec t y OU here, to-morrow,
J f i§ nQ then rn know when you
don ’ t ' come .”
j t was tbe end Next morning, I was
out i nspe cting meters when I received
an urgerd message saying I was wanted
back at tbe o ffi ce immediately. I re-
turned a t full speed, to discover about
2 000 women struggling around the main
entrance. Wondering what on earth had
happened, I crept inside, through a rear
window.
“Where’s Mr. Me Ardent?” I asked
the first clerk I met.
“j don’t' know,” the poor fellow stut-
tered. He was terrified by the riot out-
s j de “He’s just gone out.”
j n m y room, 1 ‘ found a note from
Mac on my table. It was the last mes-
sage j ever ba d from him.
“Dear Wick-Smith,” he had
written. “I have made a terrible
mistake. I for pot that every other
healing stem
cm<w heay what j said to E { sie> anc \
ffj . aR here wanting me to marr y
//?gm whaf am j w do ? The
thought 0 f two thousand writs for
()f promise is too awful.
Besides, Elsie has turned me down.
v/u , won > t have anything to
q who i esa j e philanderer.
/> m fearfully worried.— Mac.”
The fathead. If he had gone out and
fa ced them with only erne wor , e
could have § ot nd °t Üb^-
ct a fF tr> handle the
HAVING the staff to the
ladies a T best they i a nohee
as;
Puzdn>g • ther « wa * deceived As
c.£ «. work o. was notdece
my hopes £ a mi]lionaire
were dissipated for ever,
Can you conceive of a man like Mac
being such a flaming tool, though he
certainly did have something to worry
about, as to start talking to himself.
A Light Brevity:-
TO"TEN GUMS"
BY ANDREW H.T. COOK
OLD Charlie
waggled hi s
whiskers into
a smile as the big
grey coupe swept
up to the tall white
gates beside him
with a swish of
heavily - braked
tyres.
“I reckon I can, I do,” he drawled in
anwer to the driver’s crisp “Can you tell
me the Way to the ‘Ten Gums’ home-
stead?”
He looked at the powerful flowing lines
of the car. “I reckon you’ll be goin’ in
by the front gate, eh?”
James Colquhoun was in a hurry. Be-
sides, he knew Charlie’s type, so he
wasted no words. “Yes, and how do
I get there?”
Charlie shuffled round to the other
side of the car the better to illustrate his
point. He put one grubby hand on to
the immaculate grey-finished coachwork,
and with his stick he pointed down the
road. “I likes to touch a big car like
this,” he said. “Gives you the same
sort of feeling as touching one o’ them
big gums over at the homestead, over
there. Makes you feel as though there
was a bit o’ strength in your old muscles
again, sort o’ style. I reckon most big
strong things are sort of sympathetic,
d’yer see?”
“Yes, yes, and how do I get to ‘Ten
Gums’? Is this the right road?” asked
Colquhoun, anxious to get his paint-
work clear of Charlie’s grimy paw.
“Well, yes. It is an’ it ain’t, sort of
style. You want to be sure that you
take the right corner, d’yer see?” He
raised his knobby stick and pointed
down the road. “Ye see them wattles
down the road a
bit? Well, there’s
a road goes off
there, d’yer see?”
“Yes, yes, by the
wattles. I see! ”
“Well, you don’t
want to take that,
because that’ll only
take you up to the
‘Mooki’ yards, which ain’t where you’re
wantin’ to go, like. Is it?”
“No. I get you. Miss the road by
the wattles.”
“Well, you goes on a bit, past that
big red homestead on the other side.
Johnstone’s place, that is. It used to be
Johnstone’s, but the slump flattened ’im
and the stock agents runs it now. We
still calls it Johnstone’s for old times’
sake sort of, d’yer see?”
“Yes, I get you. Pass Johnstone’s, and
what then?”
“Well, up the way a bit from there
you’ll get to where the road sort of
branches. One goes to the right, like,
and the other goes to the left, d’yer
see? You don’t take the one to the
right, because if you do”
“No. I get you. Take the road to the
left! ”
“Yes, as I was sayin’, take the road
to the left, because if you takes the other
one it’ll lead you ’way to billy-oh out
to the hills there, or p’raps it might land
you up at the freezin’ works, if you took
a different turn up by the cattle stop.
Them’s great things, them cattle stops.
I bet they saves you motor fellers a pile
of time, not havin’ to open a gate about
every hundred yards or so, eh?”
“Yes, yes. Quite good. So I take the
road to the left where it forks. I get
that. And does that take me straight
to ‘Ten Gums’?”


It's a Gift
that is always remembered
whether for Birthday, Wedding—or Christmas
The VISOFIL
—big ink capacity and
shows when to refill.
The LEVERLESS
—only two half-turns of the
top to fill.
m
The VISOFIL or LEVERLESS
'The ‘ Big Fill ’)
(The 1 Quick Fill')
Swan Pen
Here’s a gift that is both personal and
practical; c just right ’ whatever the
occasion may be! And this year there
is a wonderful choice between two really
splendid and up-to-date models the
Visofil with bigger ink capacity and
c observation window ’ showing when to
refill, and the Leverless which needs only
two half-turns of the top to fill. See and
try them at any good Stationers or
Jewellers!
Prices The new VISOFIL
Swan, with clip and mount of
rolled gold, 32/6. Ladies’
Size, without clip, 27/6.
LEVERLESS Swans from 21/-
Other Swans from 15/-.
Blackbirds from 10/-.
Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6.
All available in black or
colours.
Mabie, Todd& Co. (Australia)
Lid., 6, Primrose Buildings,
255 a George Street, Sydney.
Made entirely in England.
No gives SU ch genuine LASTING pleasure
A. 6.36.
“Well, in a way, like, it does. You
ain’t got no bridges to cross, nor nothin’
like that, but you turns another corner,
d’yer see?”
“Which way, to the right?”
“No-o. Not the one to the right,
neither. That’ll only take you along to
the race track, but there ain’t no races
on till near Christmas, now, so it ain’t
no good takin’ that one, though, mind
you, you’d see about the best stand o’
lucerne down by the river a bit that I
ever seen, if you did go down there.”
Charlie looked pathetically at Colqu-
houn. He had an inkling that somehow
the information wasn’t as appreciated as
it should have been. “I don’t s’pose you
town fellers knows a good stand o’
lucerne when you sees one, but if you
wants to learn you can’t do no better
than have a look at that. It’s real good.”
“Yes, yes, but I haven’t time now.
I’m afraid. But if I don’t go to the
right, where do I go?”
Charlie deliberately cleared his throat,
and wiped the tip of his nose with
the back of his hand. “Well, you
goes past there a bit, and then you turns
to the left again, d yer see? Back on
your tracks, sort o style. That 11 lead
you right straight to the ‘Ten Gums
front gate. You won’t miss it, because
you’ll see the Gums. Them s them
across the paddocks there, what I tola
you a few jiffies ago that 1 liked to
touch.”
“What, just up the end of this drive,
here?” Colquhoun’s face was an
enigma,
“Sure,” said Charlie. “And if I was
you, and you wasn’t so particular about
goin’ in at the front gate, I’d just go up
the back drive here, like. It ain’t so
nobbish lookin’ as the front way,
but” The cloud of dust that rose
from the wheels of the big coupe as it
roared up the drive choked the rest ot
his advice.
A Study of Character:-
THE DIVINER
BY ERIC LOWE.
THE great difference between divines
and diviners is that diviners have
faith. They’ve got to have it or
they’d never get anywhere in the dry
country. Most of them have faith in
their luck, but Dandy Dewdinkle had
faith in himself.
I first met Dandy in the little western
township of Windy Plain. He jumped off
the train one morning with all his posses-
sions in a handbag and nothing in his
pocket but a bad two-shilling piece and
a wrongly-dated ticket. How he put it
over the stationmaster remains a miracle,
but in less than a minute that amazed
official was apologising for having
doubted him.
“That’s all right,” Dandy told him,
and crossed the dusty Street to Ryan’s
pub, slapped the two-bob piece on the
counter and called for whisky—and
water. Bill Ryan pushed the bottle across
to him and advised him to take soda
with it.
“The tank’s down to its last rung,” he
said. “I’d have to charge you sixpence
extra for water, just the same as soda —
and the soda tastes better. Most of the
boys take it neat.”
“That suits me,” said Dandy. He
tossed down the whisky and grinned.
Bill Ryan grinned back at him.
“Have one on the house,” he said.
“That cask was bought in the winter
when the tanks were full.”
Dandy drank his second whisky slowly
and thoughtfully.
“Do you depend on the weather for
your water supply?” he said.
“Well,” Ryan told him, “we can get
it by train now the railway’s here ; but
they forget us as often as not.”
“No wells about?”
“They’ve tried, of course. Punched a
few holes here and there, but struck no-
thing better than soakage.”
“How deep?”
“A hundred feet on Balooka, about a
mile from here. Most of the locals gave
up after thirty feet or so ; struck nothing
that looked like water. This is a brum
two-bob.”
“Can’t be,” said Dandy. “Ever try
the divining-rod?”
“Don’t look too good to me,” said
Ryan doubtfully. “No—no one round
here works the rod.”
“I do,” said Dandy. “Finding water’s
my job. Get me a willow fork and I’ll
soon tell you if there’s any water about.”
“Willow! Where’n hell can I find
willows growing?”
“Box then—or gum.”
“Look here, mister”—Bill Ryan spoke
pityingly—“go to the door and take a
look around. If you see a tree of any
kind or description I’ll give you free
board and lodging for as long as you
like —and I’ll say no more about the two-
bob.” As an afterthought he added:
“There’s an old pepper-tree in the yard
if that’s any good to you.”
“Pepper-tree!” You could almost see
Dandy’s ears prick. “An old one, you
say? No —it’s no good for a divining-
rod ; bows down to all sorts of things
besides water. But I can work the wire,
too. You’ve surely got a lump of fencing
wire?”
“I can suit you with that,” Ryan said.
“I’ve heard of the wire but never seen
it work. Like to try now?”
“Yes,” Dandy told him, “and we’ll
start with your backyard.”
They walked into the stableyard, and
a few of us who’d been listening fol-
lowed to see what would happen.
DANDY cut a lump of fencing wire
about four feet long, straightened it
out and bent over about six inches of
one end at right angles to the main piece.
Holding the short arm in his left hand,
he rested the end on his right palm so
that the long arm of the wire swung
freely, then he started walking about.
The old pepper-tree stood in one corner
of the yard. It was a magnificent tree,
green, healthy and flourishing. Many
months afterwards Dandy told me :
“When I saw that tree I reckoned I was
set. If it didn’t have its roots in water
I was ready to swallow the rod.”
We watched Dandy walking backwards
and forwards across the yard, and wher-
ever he walked or stood the end of the
long arm of the wire rod would swing
around and point to a spot immediately
under the pepper-tree. Dandy walked
across to us.
“There’s water there,” he said, “and
plenty of it. I reckon it’s not more than
fifty feet down. The rod’s working very
strong. Look at it now.”
He turned to Ryan.
“Pull the end towards you,” he said,
“and let it go.”
Bill Ryan pulled the wire across, touch-
ing it gingerly as though it was some-
thing alive. When he released it the rod
swung slowly back until once more it
pointed under the pepper-tree. Dandy
turned to me.
“Take it yourself,” he said. “Maybe
you have the gift.”
I took the rod, holding it as Dandy
did, but it stayed without movement.
“Well, well,” Dandy said, “I had a
feeling it would work for you. Let’s
see what happens when I make contact
with you. Now don’t move.”
He placed his hands on my shoulders,
and gradually I became aware that he
was pressing harder and harder on my
right shoulder. Well, I’ve never been a
spoil-sport; 1 let my right shoulder sag
ever so little, and slowly the long arm
of the rod swung across and pointed to
the pepper-tree.
That settled it. If there had ever been
a doubt in Bill Ryan’s mind them was
none no m. Right there he made a con-
tract with Dandy to sink a well —thirty
shillings a foot and Ryan to supply sawn
slabs. Dandy said that his usual charge
for locating a site was five pounds, but
he’d let it go altogether this time if Ryan
would advance a tenner on the contract,
which Bill readily agreed to do, and we
all trooped into the bar again.
THE whole district was in a fever of
excitement when Dandy started the
well. At thirty feet he struck gravel. At
thirty-five feet he struck a soakage
(enough, he told me afterwards, to
account for the pepper-tree). At forty
feet he struck blue clay, did the pessi-
mists started to shake their heads. At
fifty feet he struck rock, and the old
hands started to laugh.
Dandy has told me that when he
passed through the soak he gave up hope,
but intended to go on until Ryan stopped
him. When he struck rock he reckoned
he was stumped, but, determined to bluff
it out to the end, he drilled down and
put in one shot.
When the fumes of the blasting powder
had drifted up Dandy went down on a
rope to bring up the tools. The man on
the windlass let him down pretty fast, but
not more than thirty feet of rope had
run off the drum when he heard Dandy
yell to stop and pull up. Another ten
feet ran out before he could hold it, and
then he started, to wind up as fast as he
could ; but when Dandy’s head appeared
above the slabs the windless man nearly
let him drop back again—he was soaking
wet and almost drowned. That one shot
had tapped water. There were twenty
feet of water in the well, making fast.
Eventually it rose to within fifteen feet
of the top.
Of course Dandy’s reputation was
made. Everyone wanted him, but
Balooka got him with a thumping big
retainer and a bonus for every water site
he found.
j N all he located five sites on Balooka,
t and at every one they struck good
water. His luck was amazing ; though,
mind you, Dandy was a shrewd little
man and there was generally reason
behind his choice of a site.
Don’t imagine that I’m set against the
divining-rod. I’m. not. It won’t work
for me, but that’s not saying it won’t
work for others, and I know men whose
honesty I could never' doubt who swear
by it. But I also know this, that when
Dandy divined water in Ryan’s yard and
on Balooka he had no faith whatever in
the rod. I was bookkeeper on Balooka
while Dandy was there, and got to know
him pretty well. For some reason he
took a great fancy to me —probably be-
cause I hadn’t put him away to Ryan
that first day. He used to come to my
room at night and talk in a cynical,
irreverent way about his “gift.”
Everyone else believed in him, and he
made money fast. Three of the sites he
chose on Balooka were shallow, and
Dandy took the contract for slabbed
wells. The other two, he. told the boss
with audacious assurance, would be too
deep for wells, and he advised boring.
Good water was struck at one hundred
and forty and two hundred feet. After
the second bore proved successful, old
Tom Hall was so pleased that he pre-
sented Dandy with a cheque for a hun-
dred pounds, and immediately Dandy
came to me with the suggestion that we
should buy the boring plant between us.
“You know, Dicky,” he said, “out in
the dry country there’s more money in
water than gold—and,” he added with a
cynical grin* “you’ve seen enough now
to have faith in my gift.”
I didn’t trust too much in Dandy’s gift,
but I had great faith in his luck, so in


RELIABLE REBUILT TYPEWRITERS . . • By Chartres Ltd.
~r%
mi
. -;
WPiS<P#
cji©
r®-
e.s
f*
©«<£>
JG
©Q
REBUILT TYPEWRITERS
FROM CHARTRES ARE
RELIABLE AND INEXPENSIVE . . .
Only the Best "Trade-ins” are Reconditioned
Every month hundreds of good “used”
typewriters are “traded-in” on new
Remingtons. Many are dissembled or
scrapped—only the best are sent to our
reconditioning plant.
There, in the same factory where the
Remington—the only Australian-built
machine —is assembled, over 70
mechanics work. Chosen for their
specialised knowledge of various makes,
they successfully recondition EVERY
TYPE of machine.
3
Arrange for a trial in your own
home or office. You will be under
no obligation. Chartres rebuilt
typewriters must' be in first-class
order to pass the rigid tests imposed,
and, despite the fact that they work
and look like new machines, prices
are remarkably low.
Post coupon to-day for details,
You’ll be surprised how little it
costs to own one . . . how easy are
the easy terms.
CHARTRES LTD.
Remington House,
Liverpool and Nithsdale Streets, Sydney. ’Phone M 6481 (11 lines).
And at T. & G. Building, Bolton Street, Newcastle.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
j COUPON
♦ Chartres Ltd.,
j Box 5428, G.P.0., Sydney.
♦ Please send me particulars of your rebuilt
{ machines. Also enclose details about the new
} Australian-built Remington.
| NAME .. v
j APDRES'S
I
the end we became partners in the bor-
inBDandy’s luck continued, and we
cleaned up the district around Windy
Plain without a single failure. We started
activities further afield, and still the luck
held until we came to Wee Benin.
WEE BENNI was a property of 150,000
acres badly in need of permanent
water. Dandy was full of optimism. He
reckoned Wee Benni was good tor hair
a dozen bores. He found a site straight
away, and, as usual, asked a fee for find-
ing water and costs for moving the plant.
For the first time since we’d started our
partnership we struck a tartar. Peter
McPherson, who owned Wee Benni, was
notoriously mean. He argued with us,
saying that he understood we only made
one charge—a pound a foot for sinking
—that he couldn’t see his way to paying
lor moving the plant, and a dozen othej
quibbles, until Dandy got wild and told
him we’d move the plant ourselves and
punch the bore down on the no-water-
no-pay system. The only stipulation
Dandy made was that we were not to be
stopped under five hundred feet.
Peter agreed. I think he was pretty
sure we wouldn’t strike water in that spot
if we went to a thousand feet.
I was annoyed with Dandy foi losing
his head and making such a stupid bar-
gain. . , . „
“Our luck’s not going to last for ever,
I told him. “Sooner or later we’ll strike
a dry hole, and we’re overdue for it
now.” i
“Luck! ” he snarled at me. You splay-
footed, pessimistic bat! D’you think it s
all just luck?”
I stared at him in amazement.
“What else would it be?” I said.
“The rod!” he shouted, and added in
a husky voice—“and me.”
I let it go at that. I knew he’d snapped
back at me without thinking what he was
saying because he was sore with Peter
McPherson, but I believe now that was
the beginning of his self-deception. Per-
haps it was that he gave expression to
a feeling that was already there—a feel-
ing so vague and improbable that in sane
moments he would not have dared to
admit it, but having once spoken he was
staggered with the possible truth of his
words.
We struck water at less than two hun-
dred feet, and McPherson paid up with-
out a word. Dandy took a fiendish
delight in telling the old skinflint that
there was not another water site on the
whole run. I knew he was doing it purely
out of spite, and I cursed him for being
every kind of a fool, but all I could get
from him was: “The rod says its not
there. And if it’s not there, Dicky, 1
can’t put it there.”
Peter McPherson evidently felt the
same about it as I did, for when he
couldn’t persuade Dandy to bore he
bought a plant of his own and punched
holes all over the property —but not a
sup of watcir did he find. If anything
was needed to turn Dandy from a care-
free opportunist to a dreaming idealist
he had it here. He gave up whisky and
tobacco, saying they interfered with what
he was pleased to call his inner con-
sciousness.
Dandy continued to find water. Soon
we had three plants going, and Dandy
and I did little more than travel round
in a high-powered motor-car
WHEN the first news of Bracegirdle’s
gold strike came to us we were
with one of our plants working a deep
bore on the South Australian border. A
drill had broken three hundred feet
down, and the idiot in charge had been
fishing for it for a week without success,
so Dandy and I went along to see what
the trouble was. We arrived about sun-
down, and half an hour later a dead-beat
man on a lame camel rode into camp.
He was Bracegirdle’s mate Tom Carney,
and he told us they had struck it rich
at a place called Sun Rocks, just where
the Gunda Range peters out into desert.
The boys on the plant were fed ur
with fishing for a broken drill, anyhow.
All night they dreamt of nuggets as big
as their fat heads, and in the morning
they came to quit their jobs. Dandy took
it very quietly and let them go.
“All right,” he said. “Good luck to
you. But I tell you this, boys —water’s
better than gold in the dry country.
You’ll be praying for water and cursing
gold before you ever see it.”
Three weeks later they died of thirst
almost within sight of the goldfield.
Dandy and I stayed with the plant. It
was impossible to get men, so we did the
work ourselves, as in the old days. We
were happy and contented, without
dreams of gold.
News of the field came to us from
time to time. “It was fabulously rich”
—“The ground had been pegged for a
hundred miles around Bracegirdle’s
claim” —“There had been a tremendous
rush, and men were still streaming out
to the Rocks.”
Then came sinister rumors that there
was little or no water on the goldfield.
“Men were bartering their claims for
barrels of water” —“Men were dying of
dysentery and some even of thirst.”
Finally there came a formal request from
the Government for Dandy to go to Sun
Rocks and test the country for permanent
water.
WE went by car. I have never seen
such an evil, pitiless place. No trees,
no grass, no growth of any kind. Bare
earth and bare rocks stretching for count-
less miles north, east and west. In the
south' the naked walls of the Gunda
Range; and over all a canopy of red
dust, so that the sun rose like a great
round stone vomited from the mouth of
a volcano, and plunged at night into a
sea of blood.
It was a rich field, and in spite
of the awful conditions men were work-
ing feverishly. Every day some new
strike would add fuel to the blazing fire
of excitement. Men died and were cursed
for dying. The survivors grudged them
burial ground and the time that must
be wasted in the burying.
The only water available was a soak
which yielded a bare 2000 gallons a day.
The soak was strongly guarded and
under Government supervision.
Dandy’s advent was hailed with de-
light, and soon he was walking over the
goldfield with his divining rod. Two
days of fruitless search plunged the
crowd into despair, but on the evening
of the third day Dandy announced that
he had found water, plenty of water, and
hope revived and blossomed like a spring
rose. No one was more elated than
German Charlie, on whose claim Dandy
had located the water.
“By God,” he roared, thumping
Dandy on the back. “I gif you haf my
gold! How long you tink? One veek,
ja? Two veek?”
It was to be many weeks before the
bore was even started, though the Gov-
ernment made all speed to bring up the
plant. It was hopeless to attempt bring-
ing a steam-tractor across the desert, and
even had it reached Sun Rocks the popu-
lation would never have allowed water to
be used for the production of steam.
Eventually the plant was set up, with a
kerosene engine for motive power, and
we started to bore.
FROM the start it seemed to me that
the venture was doomed to failure,
though never until the end did Dandy
lose faith. The engine gave untold
trouble. It ran too fast for the plunger
and we could not throttle it down. In
the terrific heat we. could not keep it
cool; it simply boiled away the water
that was allotted to us, willingly at first
but with many mutterings and black
looks as time wore on and there was
no sign of success. A bearing seized, a
connecting rod broke, and weeks were
lost in renewing the parts. Again and
again we had to fish for broken drills,
while the miners cursed our stupidity and
unhandiness.
The daily visits of the men altered in
form and feeling as the work went on.
In the beginning a few cheerfully ex-
pectant souls would gather round the
plant in the evening for progress re-
ports, which they retailed to the rest
of the camp. As the bore gradually de-
scended, and their hopes seemed no
nearer fulfilment, their nightly visits be-
came fraught with animosity and sus-
picion, until they assumed a definitely
menacing aspect. Their numbers, too, in-
creased. Where in the early stages there
had been half a dozen friendly diggers
ready to joke with Dandy or me, there
were now a hundred or more stern-
faced, silent, dangerous men.
They didn’t even talk among them-
selves. They just stood around and
waited. But the silent expectancy bore
a menace a hundred times more deadly
than curses. What did they expect? I
asked myself the question time and
again. There was only one answer —•
“Failure.” They were waiting grimly
for us to strike bedrock. It was un-
canny, sinister and far more terrifying
than the threats and open hostility of
German Charlie.
Charlie was the only man on the gold-
field who had brought his family to live
with him. When Dandy had promised
water, the German had rushed headlong
back to civilisation and returned with
his wife and a youngster of two years.
It was a mad thing to do, and he paid
for it dearly. The child died first, and
two weeks later the mother.
IT was about eleven o’clock on the
' morning of one hopeless day that we
struck bedrock. Dandy refused to be-
lieve it at first, but gradually the certainty
came to him that the bore would be
for ever dry—an impossible failure.
“Dicky,” he said, “it can’t be true.
There must be water there!”
I looked at the little man standing
with his hand on the useless plunger,
pathetically small and helpless, stripped
of his faith, disillusioned ; and I forgot
the goldfield and the desert, the death
of the German’s wife and the menace of
the people. Tongue-tied in the face of
Dandy’s greater tragedy I turned away,
leaving him alone with his own ruin.
1 DON’T think Dandy saw death ap-
-1 proaching, though the powder marks
on his forehead showed that German
Charlie had shoved the revolver right
into his face. We found them lying side
by side.
I am certain that for weeks murder
had been in the hearts of the people—
they had been waiting only for the day
that failure could no longer be hidden —
but the ugly futility of murder when
they saw it caused a curious revulsion of
feeling. There was no longer any danger
for me, and I knew it.
Big Jim Warren looked down at
Dandy.
“Poor little, cow! ” he said. “He wasn’t
a bad sort, and I reckon he thought
there was water there. Some of us
oughter got hold of Charlie; he was
gone in the top like we’ll all be if we
stay in this damned hole much longer.
Let’s take the day off and plant Dandy
decent.”
THE burial place had been in a patch
of ground about three miles from
Discovery, but a few days earlier gold
had been found there and it was de-
cided to make a new cemetery in a dry
gully about five miles away that had
prospected very poorly in the early days.
Timber was at a premium, so Dandy
and German Charlie were sewn up in
rolls of hessian, and the long procession
started out for Flaherty’s Gully in what
Big Jim quite seriously called “the cool
of the evening.”
It was a strange procession. Practi-
cally every one on the field who could
walk came out to see the last of Dandy
Dewdinkle the diviner. Jim Warren and
his two mates marched ahead with picks
and shovels on their shoulders. I came
next as chief mourner. On one side or
me walked Trooper Murray, who was in
charge of the water supply, and who was
deputed to read the burial service. On
my other side, and dangerously close,
walked a wizened, bow-legged miner
known as Blue Bob, who informed me
that He had “a stick or two of gelli and;
a coupla caps” in his pocket, in case
the ground proved “too ’ard fer the
pick.” Behind us came the mortal re-
mains of Dandy and German Charlie,
loaded on an improvised float with low
barrow wheels. After them straggled the
mining community, while the red dust
churned up by hundreds of stamping
feet hung over all.
Arrived at Flaherty’s Gully, Big Jim
started to dig.
“We’ll punch her down six or eight
feet,” he said, “and plant ’em together.
I reckon they won’t fight now.”
There were many willing hands and the
hole went down apace. When the grave
was about six feet deep they struck bluish
slaty rock, and Jim Warren reckoned
they’d “leave it at that.” But Blue Bob
was not to be denied his fireworks.
“It ain’t right,” he said. “If we puts
’em in together there should be a layer
of dirt between them, and if we does
that she ain’t deep enough.”
They let him have his way, and when
the holes had been drilled Blue Bob set
his charges and lighted the fuses.
There were two charges. The first
exploded with a shattering roar that
seemed quite out of proportion to the
quantity of gelignite used, and for a
moment we thought both shots had gone
off together ; but within a few seconds
another explosion sounded, dull and
heavy as though the charge had been
packed with sandbags, and before our
amazed eyes a short column of water
rose above the edge of the grave and sub-
sided with a splash.
IT was Big Jim, three weeks later when
1 the well had been tested and proved,
who supplied the last word.
“It ain’t no use Blue Bob claimin
recognition. It was Dandy Dewdinkle
found that water —and 1 reckon if
Charlie hadn’t gone bughouse he’d have
found it where he was, bedrock or no
bedrock!”


TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
NO. 2 OF A SERIES.
Os
f?
r*\
o
<
sr<
?
Q
"Wash Day"
BOMBAY.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Brok
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. rik,
Newspaper House, Melbourne > •
Department, News, Ltd,, Adelaide.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken 1 e
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.H.W.: Undistinguished S.C.P.: Even
more so J.L.; “Soulful rigmarole” would
be a fair description if we could find the soul.
And why try to rhyme “definite” with “dyna-
mite”? R.G.H.: Quite a pleasant little idyll,
but miles off our beat... .1.R.; If that is a fair
sample of your verse we can’t see much hope
for you. Certainly there is no market here.
. ...8.H.: There’s cleverness and clear-cut
diction in all of them; regret they are unusable,
Try us with simpler themes... .W.C.P.: It
might make a pantomime or vaudeville ditty,
A.V.N.; That little-grey-home-in-the-west
stuff has been overdone... .T.D.: If you would
concentrate and prune and polish instead of
spreading yourself recklessly over a dozen dif-
ferent subjects you might sec print....
W.D.McC.: Two prophetic lines: —
Into the basket this may be tossed,
Another case of love’s labor lost.
. . ..T.H.Y.: Nothing in “Our Office Boy” that
our office boy couldn’t have done in his lunch
hour R.E.L.: Far too slight... .Shortfellow:
Has all the moralising faults of your long fore-
runner... .D.V.N.: Has points, but too much
like a string of familiar poetical phrases,
E.W.: Blank-verse brevities need to be
superlatively good; yours only f.a.q F.F.;
Prefer any day to read one thing that has been
charged with poetry rather than five reams that
don’t get beyond being competent verse....
C.S. (M.L.): Something in all of them, but
not enough in any of them; and they move
stiffly....H.G.H.; Well-meant, doubtless, and
not ill-phrased, but thin as vin ordinaire....
J.K.J.: Twittersomc jingle G.K.E.: A huge
hunk of indigestible verse scrawled in sadly-
illegible pencil... .P.E.H.: You make heavy
going of the attractions of country life....
EC.: Cricket poem thrown out L.E.R.:
Bellowdrammcr G.L.W.: Yours likewise
J.F.C.: Try something new... .C.K.R.: An
idea there, but you make heavy going of it.
....J.G.: N0....J.W.: Try a women’s paper.
. ...J.J.: That sort of thing needs skilful hand-
ling F.S.; Buried the corpse after an ex-
haustive post-mortem... .R.W.: Inspected your
school and found it wanting... .F.H.H.;
Murderer turns back the clock — please, never
again!... .C.McC.: Artificial... .E.M.8.: Not
for us R.A.M.; Charming L.C.S.: Try
writing stories, not treatises... .E.A.L.: Inci-
dent too slight to hang a story on G.W.L.:
So is that blush R.M.: Atmosphere AI, but
you closed the yarn just as it started to get
interesting... .M.T.A.: You’d have a lovely
time in a morgue... .S.C.L.: That blue-water
yarn is heavy with barnacles... .R.P.: The
ending spoils that study R.T.: “He skir-
mished with circuitous tergiversation.” Well,
we’ll go peregrinating to Cerberus!... .D.8.C.:
Professorial cricket doesn’t raise enough
laughs T.L.: Both immature D.F.8.: Ihe
fate of the old trotter left the office punter
dry-eyed A.A.: “Bandy Bill” homeward-
bound F.C.8.: Tame variation of dead-cat-
in-the-bag yarn S.G.T.: The guilty one
should have been brought more into the pic-
ture... .J.T.M.P.: A little too lean... .D.F..
Too conventional. If the husband had leaped
into a volcano attired in a bathing suit you
might have stood a better chance... .V.D.:
You forgot to include among modern tortures
reading first attempts... .M.D.: Fifth bushfirc
yarn from the Blue Mountams (N.S.W.) this
week; put out with the rest... .F.N.8.; Plain
Jane” a literary wallflower.. . .M.E.M.: Weak
ending... .A.P.: That trick finish has been used
before... .M.T.: Might make a fill-up for a
women’s paper... .S.C.P.: Crude... .J.E.8.:
Send your dashing hero and eloquent
villain to some English magazine R.8.P.:
Doesn’t hold interest... .A. 8.: Both missed.
K.M.C.: At least you butchered
more characters this week than any other
author H.H.: Neither is worked out cap-
ably... .W.J.H.: The mere shadow of a yarn.
W.M.M.: Humor falls flat... .E.D.T.:
Antics of your rustic cobbers amused us not.
L.C.: Over a drink the Religious Editor
could tell you scores better than the one told
to y0u....R.J.: All on the thin side
H.S.J.P.: Slapstick... .R.H.: It should have
been told from the viewpoint of the hunted....
C. 8.: N0....W.W.G.: No paddock here for
your jibbing horse... .J.L.: Dreary... .D.E.D.:
Shows some promise... .M.E.8.: Flapper-
fodder... .K.M.: Ditto... .T.W.D.: No spare
kennels here... .8.M.N.Z.: Thin S.H.C.:
Stretched too far J.L.M.: You’ve an idea,
but you don’t make it stick... .1.M.: Not for
u5....M.8.: Nothing new... .L.T.: “For The
Bully?” No! L.R.: Below your usual
A.E.C.8.: Stick at it G.C.8.: Don’t fancy
that one... .C.J.R.: Two friends love the same
girl; the loser returns after some years with
murder in his heart, but the che-e-ild! —it’s
out! A.V.H.: No grazing for your goats.
D.McC.: Promising; try again... .C.E.M.:
Can’t carry “The Black Man’s Burden”....
E.J.S.: Too hectic J.P.H.: You don’t
make a story of it... .L.M.8.: Both just miss.
D.P.; No S.M.: Just a pretty story.
H.M.: Fix up the spelling, punctuation and
grammar before your next try, and type in
double spacing... .R.L.: Slight and obvious.
H.P.: Didn’t fancy the sleep-walking mur-
derer R.H.N.: We distrust stories wherein
the hero’s hair whitens overnight R.P.M.:
Neither the tragic nor the comic passed muster.
....A.K.W.: Much too long K.T.: Sob
stuff... .H.0.A.: Coincidence is too much to
swallow T.0.C.: Might do for a feminine
paper... .N.W.: Very feeble... .J.H.C.: Can’t
believe that the old lady would be deluded in
that fashion.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.W.8.: Can make nothing of that whirling
mass of lines T.A.: Take consolation from
the fact that so far no 14-year-old has
crashed into these pages with a full-page car-
toon C.W.: Archaeologists have dug that jest
up in several of the world’s ancient places
R.M.: A careful piece of art, but it fails to
illustrate the gag....H.D.: Your hand didn’t
carry out what was apparently in your head.
L.G.: Made us grin, but not as you in-
tended it should... .F.P.P.: “Are lessons
needed?” Most decidedly... .L.S.: Why is the
family occupying a rabbit-hutch? D.A.J.:
Sheer waste of good paper and ink....0.L.:
That Dad and Dave gag has been on our pen-
sion list for years.,. .C.R.: You crowd your
cartoons with too many details... .N.J.:
Obvious enough that you are “a reader of The
Bulletin” ; all those gags are from back
numbers... .5.8.: A slick line and a sense of
composition, but no humor A.H.L.: So our
old friend the “What, no shave?” gag still sur-
vives? ... .L. A.: More like dead trees than live
men... .J.A.8.: Merely scratches... .K.W.:
Drawings hopeless, but always ready to con-
sider ideas... .D.J.N.: Bathers look to have
been constructed out of driftwood... .C.C.M.:
Out of season... .P.8.L.: If they are bolsters
and not humans they are not badly done....
G.S.: Such subjects are already covered
by a staff artist... .M.S:T.: What the vegetable
John said to the angry housewife didn’t sound
amusing... .J.L.: Nice little fashion-plates ; we
prefer something with more life S.F.D.:
Can’t see the postman bringing you cheques
for many a long day G.M.: Poor drawing
illustrating Homecoming Drunk Joke No. 397.
. ...P.C.: Looked like something the last
southerly-buster blew in....A.P.: Attempt to
illustrate “51 soldiers and two small widows”
missed badly... .J.C.: Among the outed.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Hames”: “Chain stores!” snorted
Dad ; “wot’s th’ flamin’ joke? I goes
into four of ’em, an’ asks fer a pair of
trace-chains. Th’ gal just looks at me
an’ giggles, so I walks out an’ pushes
me way into a pub. ‘A schooner,’ sez I
an’ gets it. Pubs do give you wot you
ask for.”
* * * *
Recently F. L. O. Irving, with an
assistant and a truck-driver, conveyed
12 horses in one float from Booroondara,
near Cobar (N.S.W.), to Melbourne. The
job look two days; the only stop made
was at Hillston, where drivers slept and
horses had a spell in a yard. The last
24 hours was an endurance test, with
very brief x'ests for meals and nosebags.
* * =s= *
“Bring your own cushion, reserve your
seat at the Art School for threepence and
during the interval munch peanuts (sup-
plied by the management in the interests
of public health). But keep the shells in
your pockets.” Such were some of the
instructions issued to intending patrons
of Melbourne Technical College’s “con-
cert” in aid of the College Club House.
* * * *
Victor Lloyd, a Maoriland writer who
has several books and 21 plays to his
credit, was guest at the Sydney P.E.N.
Club’s last dinner. He had to rush off
to broadcast what he thought of Aus-
tralia (after being here a week); he
came back and read his amusing paper
to fellow-Penners. The whole was a skit
on the sort of thing dished up by travel-
lers who become authorities on a place
after spending a few days in it.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for October was
the highest monthly output for 18 years
and the best for October for 20 years.
Production for the first 10 months of
1936 amounted to 685,078 fine ounces.
The output for the full year is expected
to exceed 825,0000 z., compared with
649,0470 z. in 1935 (a strike year) and
651,3380 z. in 1934.
* * * *
Landon, the Republican candidate for
the Presidency, was defeated in 46 ot
the 48 States, even in his own State of
Kansas, though it has an anti-Demo-
cratic tradition. An extract from the
“‘Times’ Weekly” of Oct. 15 which
helps to explain the seeming mystery:
Kansas was a pioneer of prohibition,
and still is. The people have recently
voted to retain prohibition by a decisive
majority. .
Governor Landon supports prohibition
in the State. He cannot and dare not sup-
port it in the nation. The memory of the
long dry years is too bitter in the East for
even semi-aridity in a Presidential candidate
to be anything but a deadly burden.
And loaded with the deadly burden he
suffered far and away the worst defeat
ever sustained by a Republican opposing
a Democratic President.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET,
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Single man (34), N.S.W., employed in Sydney
boatshed, wants work among launches or yachts.
—3687.
Young man (22), Vic., wants to get a footing
in journalism on country or provincial paper.
—3689.
To buy stamp collections or accumulations.
Exchange desired outside Australia. —3706.
To buy A Journalist and Two Bears, by James
Edmond. —3698.
To buy a book by Barry Pain containing
a parody on “The Arab’s Farewell to His
Steed.” —3733.
Information Sought.
In computing a batsman’s average should he
be considered “not out” if he retires or is
called in by his captain, or if, being captain,
he retires himself? Any rule on the subject?
—3557.
There is nothing in the Laws of Cricket cover-
ing the compilation of averages. It is custom-
ary, however, for a batsman’s, innings to be
regarded as completed if he retires of his own
free will; if he retires as the result of injury
or is called out by his captain the innings is
regarded as “not out.” If the captain retires
he does so of his own free will and therefore
his innings is regarded as completed.
* * * *
(1) What were the bowling figures of J. M.
Sims, of the English team, with the M.C.C.
team in Australia last year? (2) With Middle-
sex, 1935 ? (3) His age ? (4) How many are
older than he in the English team ? —3730.
(1) In Australia —
Overs. Mdns. Runs.Wkts.
v. Westralia 30 2 95 7
f 34.7 3 134 4
v. South Australia ■•[ 20 0 76 3
... . • /21 0 101 3
v- Victoria ( 7 i 39 0
v. N.S.W 28 1 125 6
„ , / 18 1 70 2
v. Queensland /23 4 1 69 3
( 11 i 44 i
v. An Australian XI | 4 81 4
214.3 14 834 33
—average 25.27
(2) 734.4 overs, 110 maidens, 2218 runs, 109
wickets, average 20.34. (3) 32. (4) Leyland (36),
Duckworth (35), Allen (34), Hammond (33).
* * * *
(1) On October 8 Mr. Casey introduced a bill
authorising the payment of an annuity to the
widow of a former member of the Federal Par-
liament. What authority has the Federal Gov-
ernment to pay such an annuity? (2) Anything
in the Constitution that gives the Government
power to legislate by regulation ? (3) Is it not
a fact that the stamp allowance of £5 per
month, the granting of life railway passes to
Ministers after three years’ service and free
trips for members to New Guinea were author-
ised by regulation? —343B.
(1) The power of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment to appropriate revenues and other moneys
is given in Sections 81 and 83 of the Constitu-
tion. In practice the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment has always acted on the assumption that
Section 81 gives absolute power of appropria-
tion for general purposes. (2) No. (3) No.
The items mentioned were included in the
annual Appropriation Act, which was passed
by Parliament.
* * * *
Why is it that in Sydney tramway rails are
welded end to end, whereas railway tracks are
made up of disconnected lengths of line so as
to allow for expansion? —3741.
The continuous welding of tramway rails is
made possible by the elastic nature of carbon
rail steel, provided that sufficient anchorage to
prevent vertical movement and resistance to
lateral pressure is available. In all street track-
work the adjoining area acts as an abutment to
any tendency of the rail to deflect from its
correct course, particularly when the tramway
surface is completed. This in itself has a curb-
ing effect to any rail movement, longitudinal
or lateral. In open ballast areas expansion
joints are used in tramways because of the com-
plete exposure of the rail.
* * * *
(1) Was Shakspeare a good actor ? (2) Did.
he ever collaborate with other playwrights ? (3)
Did he make much money out of his plays ? ■
3753.
(1) According to Aubrey he was, but he
played only minor parts, such as the Ghost m
“Hamlet” and-Adam in “As You Like It. ’ (2)
It is believed that he collaborated with Fletcher
towards the end of his career, and his first play,
according to some commentators, was written
partly hy Marlowe and others. (3) He left an
estate worth £2OO to £3OO a year; known invest-
ments in property, £960.
$ * * *
What nationality is a Lascar? How is the
word derived? —3732.
The name is in common use for all Oriental,
and especially Indian, sailors, and has been
adopted in England in the Merchant Shipping
Acts. It is derived from the Persian “lash-
kar,” meaning army or camp, in which sense
it is still used in India. It was applied to
sailors by the Portuguese in the seventeenth cen-
tury.
Particulars of the Sacco-Vanzetti case? 3601.
Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti, two
Italians, were in 1921 found guilty of the
murder of a paymaster at South Braintree,
Massachusetts, U.S.A., in April, 1920. The
verdict was disapproved by many who believed
the men had been unjustly sentenced owing to
their radical political views, and, a new trial
having been refused, postponement of execution
was secured and the case carried to Governor
Fuller, who in 1926 appointed a committee to
investigate the matter. The committee’s decision
was that they had received a fair trial, and
the two men were executed in Charlestown
prison, August 23, 1927.
* * * *
What are the possibilities of employment for
a female science graduate who takes chemistry
and botany as her chief subjects? —3520.
Outside teaching, posts for women graduates
in chemistry and botany do not often present
themselves. The majority of industrial organisa-
tions which employ chemists choose men.
Chemists in factories are often required to
supervise factory processes, and thus are obliged
to do shift work, which, especially when car-
ried on in close conjunction with factory staffs,
seems to be regarded as an unsuitable occupa-
tion for women. However, a number of women
trained in chemistry and botany are at present
employed in Government or semi-public insti-
tutions and in museums, and women gradu-
ates in science with good secretarial qualifica-
tions are also occasionally asked for.
* * * *
Has the annual death-rate from pulmonary
tuberculosis altered since the war? —34B3.
The war did not influence tuberculosis figures
in Australia either way; the continuous decline
in the death-rate since 1885 continued through-
out the war years and has continued since.
Australian death-rates per million: 1911-15,659;
1921-25, 538; 1930-34, 411. In Germany from
1885 to 1922 the rate fell from 3.1 to 1.42
per 1000 living. There was a rapid increase
during the war years, but these deaths should
be regarded as hastened by privation and
influenza. The same is true of England, where
a decrease of one-half had taken place among
males and two-thirds among females in 40 years.
In England and Wales the decline has been re-
markable since 1919. In Scotland there was a
decline of 31 p.c. in the decade 1911-21. Briefly,
the death-rate from tuberculosis, except during
the war, has decreased in places where atten-
tion has been given to the hygienic control of
the disease from one-seventh of all deaths in
1890 to something between one-twelfth and
one-twentieth to-day.
* * * *
Details concerning the lawsuit over the will
of James- Mitchell, father of David Scott Mit-
chell, founder of the Mitchell Library? —37ol.
After Mitchell’s death in 1861 it was found
that he had a month previously made a will by
which management of his estates was left to
W. E. Wolfskehl, who was authorised to mort-
gage the estate to carry on business enterprises
which they had undertaken together. Mitchell’s
family produced a will of 1841, and disputed
the new will on the grounds of mental incapa-
city and undue influence. The then Attorney-
General appeared for Wolfskehl. Publication
of the proceedings was forbidden by Court
order, but this was rescinded before the close
of the trial. Judgment was in favor of the Mit-
chell family.
* * * *
Are penguins to be found in Australian
waters? —3415.
Several forms occasionally wander as far
north as Tasmania and southern Australia;
but only one species, the Little or Fairy Pen-
guin ( Eudyptula minor), is resident in Austra-
lian seas, breeding in great numbers on some
of the islands off southern coasts, and ranging
north as far as Moreton Bay on the east coast
and the Swan River on the west.
* * * *
Some details of a night-glass, a kind of tele-
scope frequently referred to in seafaring books ?
—3530.
“Night glass” is applied to binoculars made
specially for clearly discerning objects at night.
They differ from ordinary binoculars in that
the lenses are clearer but not as powerful, and
they have a larger field of vision. Night
binoculars have usually a magnification of
4i to 5 diameters, whereas daylight binoculars
magnify from 1\ diameters upwards.
* * . * *
How did the bandicoot come to be so called?
—3683.
The name is a corruption of a Telugu word
meaning “pig-rat,” and was originally applied
to a large species of rat common in southern
India and Ceylon. Not known how it first
came to be applied to the Australian animal,
but Collins in 1802 (apparently reproducing
Bass in 1799) uses it without explanation as a
well-known name.
* * * *
Particulars regarding the President of Cuba,
including date of taking office and details of re-
forms ? —3496.
General Carlos Mendieta, physician, veteran
of the war of Cuban independence and leader
of the anti-Machado revolt of 1931, assumed
office as Provisional President, January 18, 1934.
Born November 3, 1873, he was educated at
Havana colleges, and took his degree in medi-
cine at Havana Uni. in 1902. He was im-
prisoned and exiled during the Machado regime,
but is regarded as one of the most honorable
and popular of the old-school politicians of his
country. He has aimed at close co-operation
with the United States, and his innovations in-
clude exclusion of naval and military officers
from the Presidency, restriction of jurisdiction
of military Courts to military cases, confiscation
of property of persons misappropriating public
funds, devaluation of the gold peso and labor
reforms. He has met with both Labor and
Fascist opposition.
* * * *
Latest treatment for gout; prevention and
diet?—mi.
Best drugs for relief are colchicurn (especi-
ally in acute attacks) and atophan. They should
be taken only under medical supervision. Occa-
sional doses of calomel or a blue pill at night
are valuable. Sip a pint of hot water flavored with
lemon peel on rising. Breakfast: porridge and
milk, whiting or lightly-boiled egg and grilled
bacon; thinly-buttered dry toast; tea infused for
three minutes and then strained. Lunch and
dinner: vegetable soup with mutton-bone
“stock,” and without flour or fat. As protein
food: whiting, flounder, mullet, chicken, lean
mutton, lamb or beef, turkey. Take meat only
once a day. Vegetables: spinach, sprouts,
French beans, cabbage, turnips and celery;
potatoes in strict moderation. Stewed fruits or
baked apples or pears at one meal daily.
Cheese in small quantity. No beer. Light,
still wines usually agree, but the toleration of
alcohol is a matter that varies with the indi-
vidual.
* * * *
Cause of and cure for tic douloureux ? —3704.
Causes at present obscure, but probably the
disease is due to the action of bacterial poisons
originating from septic spots in the teeth or
air sinuses which reach a centre in the nerve
called the ganglion. Drugs are of no lasting
benefit. Injection of alcohol into the nerve
roots often produces relief, but has to be
repeated. Permanent cure can be effected only
by operation, the results of which have been
very successful in skilled hands.
* * * *
(1) Will too much iron in diet cause freckles
to be more prominent? (2) What foods con-
tain iron in any quantity? (3) Is borewater
harmful to skin and hair? (4) What foods are
definitely fattening? (5) What diet is best to
cure a blotchy, pimply skin, and what food
should be avoided ? —5630.
(1) No. The cause is the stimulation of the
pigment-producing cells in the skin by sunlight.
(2) Liver, heart, beef, lamb, ham, oysters, sweet-
breads, veal,. spinach and treacle. (3) Bore-
waters that contain minerals have a roughen-
ing and drying effect on the skin and are not
satisfactory for washing the hair, for which
rainwater is preferable. (4) Milk, eggs, break-
fast cereals, cheese, bacon, cream, nuts, butter
and oil. (5) Diet should contain liberal sup-
plies of fruit and vegetables. Sweets, condi-
ments, pastry and soda-fountain drinks are
harmful.
* * * *
Recipe for making ice-cream with glucose?
—3646.
One quart milk, 3 dessertspoons cornflour,
4 teaspoons vanilla or other essence, 2 eggs,
a-pint cream; glucose to taste. Beat the eggs
well, add the cornflour, then gradually pour on
the milk, which should have been previously
heated. Stir well together, then add sufficient
glucose to sweeten to taste. Place in a
double boiler and cook gently until it thickens.
Remove and allow to cool; add the essence
and cream whipped. It is then ready for freez-
ing. Put in container into the freezer and pack
round with ice and salt in the proportion of
1 salt to 4 coarse ice. Instead of essence, fresh
fruits or fruit juices may be used.
* * * *
What are threadfins? —3682.
Tropical fishes of the family Polynemidae, with
slender filaments beneath the pectoral fins, which
can be moved freely and are tactile organs, en-
abling the fish to find its food in muddy
estuarine waters. A species common in Queens-
land, Polynemus tetradactylus, is known as
salmon or Cooktown salmon, though it bears
no resemblance to or affinity with the true
salmon. It occurs in shoals, and sells readily
in northern markets. Threadfins rarely extend
so far south as the N. S. Wales coast, but
are plentiful along the northern seaboard. Some
species grow to 6ft. long.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for a cold solder ? (2) Can one be
bought? —3677. .... ...
(1) By shaking finely-divided copper with
mercury in a little dilute sulphuric acid an amal-
gam can be prepared. The amalgam is formed
into pellets, which are heated until mercury
exudes, wiped free from mercury, then rubbed
to a soft paste in a mortar. Surfaces to be
united are first treated with sodium amalgam
(sodium 2 per cent.), and the soft paste of
copper amalgam is then applied. The surfaces
to be joined are then tightly pressed together,
the union being complete in about three hours.
(2) Nock and Kirby, 417 George-street, Sydney,
sell a preparation called “Mend-A-Hole, which
will mend holes in aluminium, iron and tin
utensils, price Is.
* * * *
How to make novelty-cut hedges with privet ?
What would you suggest as most striking?—
3 °Set plants 12in. apart and lop to force thick
growth. Designs fancied in Sydney suburbs
include emus, kangaroos, easy chairs, peacocks,
lions and dogs. A good idea for a novice is to
cut a pattern in wood or make one of wire and
place alongside the hedge. Job requires a lot
of patience and *very sharp shears and seca-
teurs.
=l= * * *
How to raise chrysanthemums as pot plants ?
Varieties of dwarf habit and good foliage
should be selected. Start rooted cuttings in sin.
rjots, and decide on shape (cone is popular). For
this plants must be stopped when a few inches
high, and, as they require it, repotted into 6in.
or 7in. pots and finally into 10m. Then tram
shoots to long sticks, with one central stick
firmly pushed into the soil. Shoots that threaten
to overcrowd the centre must be rubbed off.
Pots should be sunk in ashes or sand in a
sheltered, sunny position.
Brief Answers.
M.F.: The information you need may be
got from the Probate Office, Supreme Court,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. A personal applica-
tion is desirable. The cost of copies of wills
depends on length, but you 'could inspect on
payment of a small fee P.L.N.: Cannot say
in the absence of grounds for his decision. The
president or chairman of a meeting has “few, if
any, legal responsibilities,” and much depends
on the judicious exercise of the wide discretion
committed to him... .L. 8.8.: There is no dis-
tinction in law between a home-made will on
a printed form or in the testator’s handwriting
and one drawn up by a solicitor, provided
the former complies with all the requisites as
to witnessing, signing and so forth. The differ-
ence is that in the home-made article the
testator may fail to express his intentions clearly
and may omit some important- provision
H.C.J.: N.S.W. Public Service Board, Savings
Bank Building, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, will
furnish particulars... .A.N.S.: Get in touch
with the Water Conservation and Irrigation
Commission, Sydney....R.B.C.: (1) The
council, under the wide powers given to it by
the N.S.W. Local Government Act, is appa-
rently within its rights in resuming the land.
(2) You can make representations to the council
or place the matter before the Local Govern-
ment Department, Sydney. (3) It is a matter
for negotiation between the council and the
purchaser. (4) The public cannot use the course
prepared by the club. (5) The public is en-
titled to free access to the park E.S.: The
department is legally entitled to recover the
amount overpaid on production of conclusive
evidence that the overpayment was consequent
on pensioner’s misrepresentation E.T.: Apply
personally to any shipping co. that carries pas-
sengers P.W.H.: (1) Approximate cost of
“A” license £5O, advanced “A” license £lOO,
“B” license £250 to £3OO. (2) Cost of second-
class navigation license and wireless license £l5O.
(3) A pilot’s “A” license is the first license
obtained which entitles a pilot to fly solo. (4)
Provided a pilot holds all the above licenses the
prospects of employment in Australia in the
next five years appear to be excellent. (5) The
Royal Victorian Aero Club and the Essendon
Aero Club C.T.A.: Retaining the services
of a registered patent attorney involves no
risk of piracy of your invention, and this course
is strongly advised. See advertisements at end of
Wild Cat Column and consult one of the adver-
tisers A. 8.: (1) Use neatsfoot oil and fine
emery powder, applied briskly with a flannel.
Rubbing is the principal item. Finish with a
silk cloth. (2) Cannot discover any writings on
the subject. It is a very small handicraft, and
the work is usually done with a pocket-
knife or any small carving tool used by wood-
workers. Most horn-carvers have their own
ways of working... .H.R.1.: Best preparation
is black motor-hood dressing, bought ready
prepared for use. Write for price list and quan-
tities to Anthony Hordern and Sons, George-
street, Sydney M.A.: From Walker and Hall,
Ltd., 416 George-street, Sydney 1.0. M.:
Address is Keishicho, Sotosakuradamachi,
Kojimachi-Ku, Tokio, Japan... .C.C.: The line
“He that is down needs fear no fall” is the
opening one of John Bunyan’s poem “The
Shepherd Boy Sings in the Valley of Humilia-
tion” A.E.: Ellis’s The Science of Turf
Investment (2s. 6d.) and Goodwin’s The Ama-
teur-Bettor System (105.)... .M.8.G.: N 0....
W.M.: No exact information is available regard-
ing medicinal plants grown in N.S.W. or the
market for them. If you could call at the
Botanic Gardens, Sydney, the matter could be
discussed with you and available information
given J.S.R.: (1) There do not appear to
be any uses to which prickly-pear juice can be
put. It is popularly believed that it is good
for diabetes, but no scientific foundation for
this belief is admitted. (2) The chief con-
stituents are water and mucilage and small
amounts of mineral matter. (3) The juice can
be readily extracted with a press. (4) Large
areas of pear exist in the Scone and Bingara
districts (N.S.W.) G.A.D.: The only sure
way to get rid of nut-grass is to trench the
soil. Sieve it thoroughly and burn the bulbs.
A.F.: Any of the finely-powdered dry
colors sold by paint stores can be used for
tinting. Mix a little oil with the color, add to
the mass of oil and stir thoroughly. Spirit dyes
could also be tried C.V.: “There are three
words with the ‘too’ sound in English: two,
too and to” L. 8.: The New Theatre
League, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney P.J.W.:
Illustration in Wash and Line, by Stephen
Spurrier (155.), Drawing for Art Students and
Illustrators, by Allan Seaby (175.) and Line,
by Edmund Sullivan (175.).... J.A.H.: There
was no earlier building on the actual site of
the present Education Building, Sydney, but
at the back, where the Agricultural Depart-
ment Building has been erected, stood the
Education Department’s old building, origi-
nally the Colonial Secretary’s office, erected in
1815, and vacated in 1915 when the Education
Department moved. It was demolished a few
months later... .R.G.: (1) See The Cat, by
Mivard. (2) Including the six tiny ossicles of
the ears, the total is 206... .A.S.G.: Write
Kodak, Ltd., 379 George-street, Sydney
D.R.M.C.: No value J.C.: Write Tyrrell’s
Bookshop, 281 George-street, Sydney
J.J.: See The Statesman’s Year-Book, 1937,
available at most public libraries D.F.:
See a local solicitor. Be sure you have some-
thing of value before spending any money
P.H.8.: The gin referred to is usually bottled
in London and shipped direct to New Guinea,
but the agents have often received supplies
bottled in Australia. There is no difference
whatever in the quality, but, as the freight from
London to New Guinea is less than from Aus-
tralia to New Guinea, the general practice is
to ship direct from London H.T.: The Perth
Cup was first run for in 1879 and won by
Corisande. Forester won the first Brisbane
Cup, 1868 C.E.S.: So far as is known no
forecasts were issued by Clement Wragge for
later than 1930 W.J.L.: Write National
Theatre Supply Co., 251 a Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Many others mailed).


\
1
V
m
:••••••
I
... but child "s play
for an INTERNATIONAL
You'll be sure to find speedy, safe, trouble-free transport wherever International
trucks handle the woolsack . . . Giant loads and rugged roads reveal the power
and endurance of these grand trucks . . . Away in the heart of the wool country
you'll find them spinning along with big massive freights over sandy tracks,
across creek beds and broken stony trails . . . you'll see Internationals again
in rough mining territories, weighted with bulky boilers and machinery . . . And
again in reservoir constructions excavations road-works ... in the deep
dug-outs of city building jobs ... Internationals, filled to capacity, move freely
where other trucks crack up with even moderate loads.
THE BEST INVESTMENT
WHEELS CAN CARRY
Those who undertake the rough work of the world are well aware that any
International truck is the best investment today that wheels can carry.
There's an International for every haulage job anywhere . . . utilities and light
delivery vans to massive 5-tonners and giant six-wheelers. Inspect the
unrivalled International truck line. See our local agent or let us send you a
free catalogue.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
International six-cylinder,
2-ton, Model C-35 with 160-
inch wheelbase.
International six-cylinder,
heavy-duty Model C-50. Rated
capacity, 4 tons. Available
in 156, 170 and 185-inch
wheelbases.
Id
With a roomy, trim-lined
van body International C-15
with a rated capacity of one
ton provides speedy, flexible
transport for near and. long-
distance deliveries. The all-
truck chassis guarantees
economy and long service.
W1967
TIONA
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Tabur”: It has been the rule since
1915 to refer to “the Senussi” (B.
11/11/ ’36) as if the name applied to a
tribe or people. Nothing of the kind
exists. The Senussi is the hereditary saint
who is head of the various Moslem tribal
sects owing allegiance to his teachings.
To refer to these as “Senussi” is as cor-
rect as dubbing Catholics “Popes” or the
Ismailian Moslems “Aga Khans.”
* * * *
“Corporal Wanst”: Surely the state-
ment that the old Duke of Wellington
inaugurated the nickname of “Thomas
Atkins” for the British soldier (B.
11/11/ ’36) strays from the narrow path
of fact. Credit is universally given to
Lord Wolseley, who when he issued The
Soldier’s Pocket Book, that mighty use-
ful little compendium for the man in the
ranks, had the name inserted in the vari-
ous forms contained in the book as a
guide to its owner.
* * * ii<
“Happy Valley”: A man from Manila
is in Australia buying racing ponies for
his country, now “freed.” They will be
the first Australian racing ponies to go to
the Philippines, but' Malaya has been a
pretty good market for them. At Singa-
pore the practice has been to buy a lot
from a club fund and then distribute
them among members by ballot. Pony-
racing has for many years been
very popular at Hong Kong and
Shanghai. There the ponies are the little
rough Manchurian brutes whose rela-
tions may be seen at Taronga Zoo.
* * * *
One of the latest appointments at Scot-
land Yard is that of Major G. D. B. de
Chair, a nephew of the former N. S.
Wales Governor. After about two years
at the Yard he becomes a Deputy-Assis-
tant Commissioner, and will have most
of the Coronation police arrangements
on his hands.
* * * *
Dr. A. F. Burstall, who becomes Dean
of Melbourne University engineering
faculty at 34, is a son of Birmingham
University’s Chance Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, and has Bir-
mingham and Cambridge degrees. For
some time he has been research officer to
Imperial Chemical Industries, and has
done a great deal of the technical work
at Billingham-on-Tees, where the first
large-scale British experimental plant
for extracting oil from coal by hydro-
genation is operating.
* * * *
“Fair Spin”: I had been hawking
drapery up around Gloucester (N.S.W.)
and was spending a sweltering hot
Christmas Eve in one of the roadside
reserves. About midnight I noticed that
a campfire among the trees was grow-
ing bigger. I found a rather swanky-
looking, long-haired choom toasting his
bare toes before a fire that would have
roasted a kangaroo, and mopping the
sweat from his face and neck with a
towel. “Everything’s 0.K., mate,” he
assured me. “Five years ago I spent a
freezing Santa Claus night under the
arches of London Bridge, and got both
my socks filled up with frostbite. I
swore then that I’d spend every anni-
versary as a sort of burnt offering. So
here I am in the middle of my annual
programme. One night only. Take a
front stall, but don’t get too near the
footlights.” Then, between yarns and
pots of tea, he recited bits of “Hamlet
and “Christmas Chimes” to a highly
appreciative audience of one.
* * * *
“Bland”: My wife and I were doing
a pushbike-camping post-war tour of
England, and darkness overtaking us, and
the proverbial Wessex hospitality not
being particularly noticeable in our
search for a camping spot, we were over-
joyed to stumble on to . a humpy built
more or less cocky fashion and a bois-
terous welcome. The interior of the
humpy lived up to its promise: kitchen
utensils hung from the walls, which were
otherwise decorated with Bulletin pic-
tures pasted cheek by jowl with others
from the “Illustrated London News.
The boss was a young farmer from New
South who had stayed over after the
war, rented a chunk of land, built the
humpy for self and wife, and was at
least making his tucker out of I forget
w'hat, but certainly not dairying. There
was evidence of homesickness, but I
gained the impression that he was on
the way to big money. No doubt he is
long since back, and may even read this.
If so, I should like to know' how he got
through an English winter when in
summer he was wearing three waistcoats.
* * * *
“Ball’s Bay”: Visitors to Pitcairn and
Norfolk islands during the last 40 years
have commented on the “dental unfor-
tunates,” but could offer no explanation.
The trouble can’t be due to vegetarian-
ism, as “Forceps” suggests (B.
14/10/’36). The Norfolkers consume a
lot of beef and poultry, and the Pit-
cairners eat poultry and goat’s meat as
well as fruit and vegetables. The
Scoresby Routledges, on their return
from their expedition to Easter Island in
1916, called at' Pitcairn, and took with
them to London two brothers belonging
to the sixth generation of Bounty de-
scendants. These youths were examined
by Sir Arthur Keith. He found them
unwilling to discuss the condition of their
teeth, nor could they tell him the reasor
why youthful Pitcairners’ upper teeth
were generally broken off or extracted,
whether in good condition or not. Keith
mentioned that he had previously exam-
ined sufficient skulls from Easter and
other Pacific islands to satisfy him that
tooth trouble, similar to the Pitcairners’,
was prevalent there also.
* * * *
“Kaindi”: The “boys” in our dis-
trict’ of the N.G. goldfield like kicking a
football about, and one of the results
has been a new form of petty larceny.
My weekly wash was on the line when
my houseboy reported that half a dozen
socks had disappeared, one from each
pair. I didn’t care about wearing odd
ones, so when later on he asked me for
the now useless articles I unsuspectingly
handed them over. I casually mentioned
the incident over the week-end, and dis-
covered that several of the other fellows
had lost their socks in a similar manner;
nearly all of them had either thrown out
the odd socks or given them to their
houseboys. It was suggested that a walk
to the football “ground” might throw
light on the matter. The socks were
there right enough ; about 50 coons were
sporting a sock on his right hoof —“pur-
chased,” as we found out, from our pre-
cious houseboys for various considera-
tions, from chewing-gum to betel-nut.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Among hundreds of skele-
tons of Allied soldiers found during the
last year in France were those of 47
Australians —all described as unidentifi-
able. Still, there are some strange iden-
tifications even now. Sergeant T. Harvey,
of the 21st Battalion, who was killed
at Pozieres, and whose remains were
only found this year, was “placed” by
the ring which remained on a finger-
bone. In another case, a brooch with a
lock of hair in it, attached to a rosary,
established the identity of a man who
had been written off as a deserter.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: An attempt is
to be made to institute yet another in-
ternational games contest, of which there
are far too many already. The offender
is King Gustavus, of Sweden, who pro-
poses a sort of Davis Cup tourney for
covered courts. Most of the European
tennis countries save Britain are will-
ing ; Britain, though in Austin and Lycett
it has had some champions in the
covered game, has never taken it to its
heart. One advantage claimed for the
proposed contest is that it can be played
in the winter months, though for many,
fed up with playing, watching and read-
ing flapdoodle about the game all
summer, this should strangle it in its
little pram.
* * * *
“Bystander”: Australian-rules football
addicts are still chasing fresh worlds to
conquer. Japan is to be tried. An un-
official ambassador who is going from
Melbourne to live there has been sup-
plied with all matter of propaganda,
printed and otherwise, and told to plant
the seed. Nippon already plays Rugby,
Soccer and the American game, and
squeezing in yet another code will test
the plenipotentiary to the utmost.


FOR BENDIGO.
President’s Handicap: Gay Sheik
or Gilt.
Welter: Gay Sheik or Gilt.
Cup: Prince Sion; next, Frill
Prince.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Flying Welter: Distinguished, if
started. Otherwise Misnomer; next,
Wise Boy or Fernacre.
Moorefield Handicap: The
Brewer; next, Windbird or Buzza-
long.
Hurstville Mile: Jovial Son ;
next, Fireman or Buzzalong.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
When Regular Bachelor won the
Futurity Stakes and the Newmarket in
Melbourne last autumn, his owner-
trainer, R. P. Trihey, told Victorians there
was a horse in Queensland that had given
Regular Bachelor 131 b. and a beating in
the Doomben Newmarket.
After the lapse of many months
Pamelus and Regular Bachelor are joint
visitors to Melbourne. Both were pro-
duced at Caulfield on Saturday, Pamelus
figuring in the Consolation Stakes and
Regular Bachelor in the Rosstown Plate.
Each was heavily freighted with bullion
from Brisbane and the cash of local
punters. Pamelus (8 to 1) was in only
a point less demand than Queen of Song,
Alinura and Prince Sion for the principal
event; Regular Bachelor wient out a
clear favorite for the Plate.
On his present pilgrimage to Mel-
bourne, which commenced many weeks
ago, Regular Bachelor has exhibited con-
sistency, picking up two races and being
placed on a couple of occasions; but
the brilliance of this son of Bachelor’s
Persse appears to be waning. He could
not finish nearer than sixth in the Ross-
lown Plate, and at no stage looked like
“bringing home the bacon.” Allowance
must be made for Regular Bachelor hav-
ing 9st. 131 b. in the saddle ; yet Ogwell
had 9st. lib.
Fortune has been unkind to Dukes,
the owner of Pamelus. His horse went
down to Gay Lover by half a head in
the Cantala Stakes at Flemington after
seeming to be “home and dry.” Tan-
wan, the jockey from Brisbane, main-
tained that failure followed on his whip
becoming caught in the horse’s bridle a
few jirides from the post. Spectators
took the view that Tanwan had been
caught napping, an experience from
which even the most skilful of riders is
not immune.
Tanwan not being available, the mount
on Pamelus at Caulfield was entrusted to
Turoa Webster. As at Flemington
Pamelus lost the Consolation Stakes by
half a head. Again the boy on top
reckoned that he ought to have won,
saying that Pamelus sacrificed a length
or more by jumping the crossing in the
straight and becoming unbalanced.
It was evident to every spectator that
Pamelus did jump the crossing, but this
occurrence did not detract from the merit
of Alinura’s victory. The mare from
Adelaide was ridden in brainy fashion
by Bastian, who has reached the pin-
nacle of his profession in S.A. since de-
serting the city on the Yarra to take up
residence there. Bastian picked out
Pamelus as his most dangerous rival, and
followed that horse throughout the race.
If Pamelus had negotiated the crossing
without mishap Bastian doubtless would
have made his supreme effort farther
from home. Th.e mare was running over
the leader as they reached the post. This
five-year-old daughter of King of Mirth
is as game as a pebble.
Queen of Song had every chance. She
followed the pace set by Pladie, another
M.L. candidate, and, taking command at
the home turn, led Prince Sion by a
whisker into the straight. Here both
Queen of Song and Prince Sion began
to fade out. Phillips, who won the Mel-
bourne Cup on Wotan after being a long
way out of his ground, varied his tactics
with Prince Sion and endeavored to suc-
ceed by brilliance with a horse that usu-
ally requires time to find his legs.
Gay, Lover’s third was an excellent
effort, though he ended up one and a
half lengths behind the second horse.
Frill Prince (fourth) improved to a re-
markable extent on his showing at Wil-
liamstown three days before, when
favorite in a weak field. Warlaby lost
lengths at the start, but this does not
adequately explain why he should have
tailed off and remained at the rear of
the field. There may have been some-
thing physically amiss with the Devon-
shire stallion. Both Alinura and Warlaby
are trained at Williamstown by Sin-
clair, who prepared Madstar (also owned
in S.A.) for an Australian Cup success
in 1932. Alinura temporarily came into
the care of Sinclair through having
kicked and incapacitated her regular
trainer, J. J. Doyle, before leaving Adel-
aide quite recently.
Hostile, the diminutive son of Simeon’s
Fort (imp.), winner of the 1928 Don-
caster, is getting back to the form that
enabled him to capture the Cantala
Stakes of 1935. Served up favorite for
the Ormond Handicap, he scored easily
from Dark Sky and Gay Sheik. The
race was confined to apprentice jockeys,
and G. West handled Hostile very cap-
ably. Gay Sheik (third at 12 to 1) is a
coming winner.
Gay Pop thoroughly deserved his
Rosstown Plate win. The Gay Lothario
four-year-old wore down Evening Mist
in the gamest possible fashion and gained
a head verdict in lmin. lOJsec., which is
a mere quarter of a second slower than
the course record for six furlongs, estab-
lished by Valiant Chief last autumn.
Heritor set the pace, but ended up in the
ruck. Cereza, also from Sydney, ran
third at 20 to 1. She behaved all right
at the post. Britebeard, on whom the
ban for misbehavior has been lifted in
the metropolitan area, was an acceptor;
but he drew the adjoining berth to
Cereza. Fearing that the mare might
set a bad example to his horse, Leek
scratched Britebeard. Cereza and Brite-
beard were both sired by Heroic, who
himself was a great source of trouble to
starters.
Tindall annexed the Stansmore Two-
year-old with Madero (7 to 2), who might
not have got there if the M.L. colt
Sunnymorn had kept a straight course.
Madero is by Drake, and that sire was
successfully represented in the first divi-
sion of the Maiden Two-year-old by
Harborage, who belongs to the breeder
“S. A. Rawdon.”
A pot of money was lost over Water-
loo (Heroic-Luminous) in the second
division of the event for maiden
juveniles. Waterloo is trained by Holt
for C. B. Kellow, whose fortunes on the
turf are at a low ebb. This race was
won by F. W. Hoysted with his Ron-
sard filly Waetere (8 to 1), who squeezed
home half a head in advance of Satyr
(9 to 2).
Exciting struggles were the order of the
day at Caulfield. In the Tara Steeple-
chase a great finishing effort enabled
Fulham to follow up his hurdle victory
on Williamstown Cup day by getting his
nose in front of Seymour as they passed
the post. .
Stakes at Caulfield aggregated £5300.
How Sydney owners must envy their
Melbourne contemporaries!
$ # * *
Alinura and Gay Pop were Bulletin
selections. Sydney bookmakers who
fielded on Caulfield events at Warwick
Farm offered 6 to 1 and 7 to 1 Alinura,
and one man’s price on Gay Pop was
7 to 1, 1| to 1 longer than in Mel-
bourne. This sort of thing rarely
happens; as a rule Sydney odds are
shorter than Melbourne odds.
* * * *
Randwick trainer Bailey Payten made
his presence felt at Warwick Farm. He
saddled up six horses and won with four.
And the. four are eminently capable of
doing it again. Payten’s first winner was
Micawber, a stylish-looking two-year-old
by Tippler-Three Mints. He was bred
by A.J.C. committeeman Hunter White
and cost 350 guineas as a yearling.
Micawber beat a poor lot in the Hox-
ton Park Juvenile, but did his job like an
old-stager. The bookmakers knew all
about him and demanded 7 to 4. The
colt stumbled slightly when the barrier
went up. Darby Munro let him get
balanced, and, dashing through on the
rails in the second furlong, Micawber
had everything settled from that stage.
Troy, a colt of knight James Murdoch’s,
was second, and Thyone, owned by the
Victorian Norman Robinson, was third.
Equally decisive was the success of
A.J.C. Colin Stephen’s filly Sal Volatile
(evens) in a division of the Farm Novice.
The daughter of Salmagundi-Voleuse
played with the opposition, though the
good-looking Tuckiar, Newcastle-owned
and -trained, was in the field. He was
second and Rosmead third. Kuvera’s
brother Punjab (6 to 1) took the other
division. At the previous meeting Sal
Volatile had beaten him with ease. On
this form Siren should find Sal Volatile
a worthy opponent in the Adrian Knox
Stakes.
The inquiry into the running of El
Senorita having resulted in the explana-
tion of the parties being accepted, El
Senorita took her place in the Warwick
Handicap field. People did not fancy
her much, and sixes could be got. Never-
theless the mare from Rosehill ran a
capital race, and beat everything bar
Payten’s representative, Wykeham (4 to
1), owned by Mrs. Hurd and expertly
ridden by Munro. Payten instructed the
jockey to keep Wykeham near the leader,
so the bay was driven along all the. way.
At times he wanted to shirk it, but
Munro wouldn’t let him, and he settled
El Senorita in the straight. Measure (7
to 2) was third ; a length ; half a length.
Djojka was fourth.
Bookies took risks with Payten’s remain-
ing hope, Irving, in the Leumeah Flandi-
cap, though he had beaten Wykeham in
track trials. Opening at fours, the price
eased to sevens as the result of a plunge
on Fireman. Fireman was never a possi-
bility. Irving, on the. other hand, put
plenty of heart into his work. Blocked
in the straight he was taken to the out-
side and, finishing fast from that posi-
tion, just beat Bonnie Rion and Spear-
dale. Bonnie Rion was rather unlucky.
She had to cover a lot of ground in the
first six furlongs.
John o’ Groats was favorite for the
Horsley Handicap, and had every
chance. He began fast from the rails,
and turned for home with such a
lead that backers were laying odds on
him. But he tired in the last furlong, and
Falstaff (12 to 1), who had played up
going to the barrier, finished all over
him. Raleigh was third and Jubilee Son
fourth. Hitherto Jubilee Son has dis-
appointed “G. Lightford,” but he looks
uncommonly well. Fernacre, a street-
corner tip, made quite a good showing
to the top of the. straight, and should
win soon.
Spark (8 to 1) scored in the
Maiden Handicap. Killaloe might have
beaten him but for lugging out. The
Palmist showed speed but tired in the
last hall'-furlong, running third. Real
Head, a stable-mate of Un Brave, and,
like him, from Queensland, was in the
leading division while his condition
lasted. He should return expenses in
Sydney.
* * * *
No wonder Lominga, the Queensland
Cup winner, js a stayer. He is by Rivoli
—second to. Bitalli, giving him 291 b., in
the 1923 Cup—out of a sister to Euryth-
mic (Eudorus-Bob Cherry). Eurythmic
was expected to win the 1921 Cup (Sister
Olive’s) with lOst. 51b., and would have
gone pretty close to it if he hadn’t met
with a mishap.
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: The Queensland Gov-
ernment has published the draft of a bill
embodying recommendations of the
Royal Commission on Racing. A ban on
the publication of odds before a meet-
ing is proposed (N.S.W. and Victoria have
this embargo, and it has never done a
bit of good), and spreading racing infor-
mation from a course is forbidden, as
are also tipsters and urgers. And publi-
cans permitting betting on their premises
may have to pay a century for the slip.
There are many other provisions in-
tended to confine betting to racecourses.
But the measure has to run the gauntlet
in Caucus, and some of its clauses are
sure to be opposed in Parliament.
* * * *
“Lead Cloth”: Congested programmes
staged by proprietary clubs round Syd-
ney have led to a grave abuse of the
rules of racing. The thing was brought
to the public’s knowledge by the announce-
ment of the A.J.C. stewards that all
jockeys must weigh-in after a race. With
ten or a dozen races on the card there is
no time for the Whole field to weigh-in
before the next scamper is due, so a care-
less method of weighing-in only the first
four placed riders has sprung up. The
return to the rules will mean cutting out
proprietary-course rushes where a rider
often has barely time to get off one nag
before being hoisted on another.
{Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
Robins led the tourists against “an”
Australian XI in Sydney. Allen and
Hammond were rested; Voce, Verity
and Fames came in. The Englishmen
batted first, and against a second-class
attack had lost five wickets for 274 at
the end of the first day’s play (Ames
76, Fagg 49, Leyland 79 n.o. and Robins
44 n.o.). Next morning the other five
wickets fell in 27 minutes: 288 runs
(Leyland 80, Robins 53 ; Chipperfield
8 for 66). By “stumps” the Australians
had lost 2 for 221 (Fingleton 56, Brad-
man 63, Brown 66 n.o., Badcock 20
n.o.; Verity 1 for 43, Worthington 1 for
5). Bradman made his runs in 89
minutes: slow for him (he was “york-
ered” trying to hit Worthington to the
fence), but wonderfully brisk compared
with Brown’s dismal exhibition —that
misguided youth took 231 minutes to
reach 66, the first 50 in 148 minutes. On
Monday it went to seven for 412 (Brown
71), with Badcock (114) still there.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Ward is to remain in
Australia for all the Tests—and for all
his cricketing career if he can get a good
job. He had intended leaving early in
January, but patriotism exercised its pull.
XXX >!=
“Callan Park”: The preposterous idea
of bringing a “world’s” cricket team to
Australia to play during the Empire
Games and N.S.W.’s 150th birthday spree
persists. The Board of Control was in-
vited to take on the job, but politely de-
clined. Minister Dunningham, who is in
charge of the celebrations, says he will
defy the board and arrange a visit from
a side composed of players from Eng-
land, Maoriland, South Africa, Canada
and W.I. All these countries save Canada
are members of the Imperial Cricket Con-
ference, and will certainly decline to let
their players go if the Australian authori-
ties object. Then there will be the
matter of grounds, which are controlled
by State bodies affiliated to the board.
Then the fact that a long Sheffield Shield
season will be in progress in 1938 and
that the States cannot release their players
to meet the visitors without treading on
the board’s corns must be considered, as
must the absence of the cream of Aus-
tralia’s cricketers in England. There
remains the circumstance that the. future
of cricket as a gate-money attraction is
black, to say the least. Altogether, the
more the project is considered the more
asinine does it appear.
* * * *
Something new in cricket souvenirs is
the official programme of the M.C.C.
tour of Australia issued by the
N.S.W.C.A. Attractively bound in colors,
the book is published at 6d. and is ex-
cellently printed and illustrated. In ad-
dition to a host of Test-match statistics
the portraits of the English visitors, with
short sketches of their cricket careers, are
published, together with those of many
of Australia’s leading players, past and
present. Of special interest is the copy
of a rare print showing the aboriginal
team which toured England in 1862, while
the first English team in this country
and the first Australian side in England
also appear. The book is interleaved
with score sheets for the five Tests. To
many its most interesting feature will be
the photographs of famous Test cricket
grounds in Australia and England.
X X * *
“Cash Amateur”: Queensland C.A. has
made a good start for its Test match by
selling all the 1400 seats reserved at a
pound for the match. Sydney C.G. would
allow only 660 reservations, costing 10s.
for each day’s play. A handicap to
sales will be uncertainty as to how
long the, match will last. At a flat rate
there is no need to worry; at 10s. a day
no one will know how much he is going
to let himself in for.
(i Continued on next page.)
Sydney is entertaining a somewhat un-
usual chess champion in Lajos Steiner,
who holds the Hungarian title. He’s
also a wrestler, a swimmer, a rower, a
tennis-player and a footballer. Thanks
to the exertions of Anthony Horderns’,
the popularity of chess has greatly in-
creased in N. S. Wales, and at the big
store one day last week Steiner played
58 games, chiefly against A-grade oppo-
nents, in four hours; he won 40, drew
11 and-lost , seven. Watching a master
like Steiner is more exciting than watch-
ing a cricket match these days.


PLUM B4lOR'
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Stron'giv-made. grained leather case free with each razor,
THE PEUM KAZOR GUARD, for fin., Jin. and {in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
f 7-day Bets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and }in.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keDt in order for two
»®ars free of charge.
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
York Street Sydney
"More than a Famous Hotel ... It Is a Delightful Home"
For 102 years, Petty's Hotel has given service to guests. Even to-day
this fine old hotel is still renowned for its service; its comfort; and its
conveniently central position.
See the new private dining room and lounge.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
ID E. yOUNGS, Manager.
Yes, “horses for courses” is the sound-
est of turf maxims. It originated in Eng-
land, the home of the thoroughbred, and
is current in all English-speaking coun-
tries to which horseracing has spread.
Turf statisticians could no doubt demon-
strate that it applies more to sprinters
than to stayers, but even champions
racing over all distances have shown a
liking for certain tracks and a dislike
for others. Peter Pan, for instance.
Peter Pan began his career of suc-
cesses in a mile Novice Handicap at
Warwick Farm. In that he just man-
aged to catch Babili—still racing among
third-raters about Sydney—and the judge
could not separate them. His only other
race at' Warwick Farm was as a four-
year-old in the Chipping Norton Plate,
a weight-for-age race run over a mile
and a quarter. A hot favorite, he failed
to get a place (the winner was Silver
Scorn, who was no great shakes), and
he showed such a dislike for the sharp
turns and short' straight that Warwick
Farm saw him no more.
Nor did Peter Pan care for Caulfield.
Certainly his only race there was in the
Caulfield Cup of 1932 ; but he lugged
out and made the turns so badly that
the experiment * was never repeated.
Within 16 days the chestnut had won the
Melbourne Stakes and the Melbourne
Cup.
That dual performance he repeated as
a five-year-old, overcoming great ob-
stacles in each of his Cup races —in the
first he was nearly down, and in the
second he had to plough through mud
with 9st. 101 b. on his back. Peter Pan
really preferred Flemington to Rand-
wick, though he was trained at Rand-
wick and introduced to racing there.
After his three-year-old days, he was
five times beaten at Randwick —twice by
Chatham (Randwick Stakes and Craven
Plate) and three times by Rogilla (King’s
Cup, Chelmsford Stakes and Spring
Stakes), on each occasion under weight-
for-age conditions or the equivalent.
Chatham was an exceptionally good
miler, but Rogilla was not really in
Peter Pan’s class. The merely good horse
beat a great one three times because
Randwick suited him perfectly and, for
one reason and another, this was not the
case with Peter Pan.
Hall Mark was at his best at Fleming-
ton and Randwick, but—except on one
occasion—was always 101 b. or 121 b. below
his best at Caulfield. There as a two-
year-old he was beaten in the Alma
Stakes by the second-rate Shakuni, who
was actually giving him 101 b., and in
the Debutant and Federal Stakes. As
a three-year-old he ran thrice at Caul-
field unsuccessfully, being beaten by such
horses as Palphar (Guineas) and Danilo
(St. George’s Stakes). Yet in that season
he won the A.J.C. Derby, the Victoria
Derby and —almost a casualty with a
bad hoof—the Melbourne Cup. As a
four-year-old he won the Caulfield
Stakes, beating Chatham. He failed in
three other attempts at Caulfield that
season. He was twice defeated in the
V.A.T.C. Consolation Stakes.
Some horses do their best on particu-
lar courses because they are trained
there. This is no doubt the case with
El Senorita, who is trained at Rosehill.
Before the 10-furlongs handicap at the
course of that name on 14/11/’36 El
Senorita had won four races altogether—
three on her home track over the same
distance. The writer noticed her come
out for a six-furlongs race at Warwick
Farm on October 24. It was her first
gallop in public after a spell; she is no
sprinter and was not expected to win ;
but she looked in pretty good shape and
ran promisingly. Obviously, all going
well, a few more gallops would put the
mare into condition for a race over her
favorite distance on her favorite course,
so she was duly tipped in The Bulletin
for the November Handicap, though she
was bracketed with Distinguished, who
had been nominated for three races at
Rosehill (the writer had formed a high
opinion of* Distinguished). For The
Bulletin has to choose its horses for
Saturday meetings before acceptances
come out, and it wanted to be on Dis-
tinguished if El Senorita was scratched.
As it happened, each horse started in a
different race, and each “came home on
the bit.”
Naturally, “horses for courses” won’t
work if the horses are not in good shape,
or if they have too much weight, or if
they are left at the barrier, or are
knocked from pillar to post, or are
blocked when making their run. Re-
garding mishaps “in running,” all the
punter can do is to hope they will be
avoided. But he is usually in a posi-
tion to exercise his own judgment as to
whether or not his fancy is well handi-
capped or is likely to be competently
ridden.
As to condition, people who can’t or
won’t go to races they wager on have
FOUR ENGLISH CRICKETERS.
HARD STAFF.
COPSON.
SIMS.
WORTHINGTON.
to depend upon newspaper reports of
previous performances and track work,
though in a multitude of cases details of
the gallops are not available. These are
obstacles to picking ’em, and there is
a loss of enjoyment as well.
One of the pleasantest things about
racing is the spectacle of horses being,
led round by attendants before jockeys
get final instructions from the trainers,
and are hoisted into the saddle. It is a
pleasure that can’t be conveyed usefully
at second-hand.
Broadcasters do their job well, but
they never tell their distant audience
how the horses look as they walk round ;
whether they are tractable or fractious;
seem strung up, jaded or short of a gallop,
and so on. Yet it is by no means rare
for a horse to drift in the betting be-
cause his appearance does not satisfy
the critics about the weighing enclosure.
Many a race has been lost between the
racecourse stall and the starting barrier.
Now and then, even at “headquarters,”
the punter who keeps his eyes open can
see horses with stringhalt, horses
with dicky pins, horses in a muck
sweat. Such animals, as a rule, are best
left alone.
It doesn’t, of course, follow that
horses in a lather of perspiration are not
fit. Ammon Ra was often in that
condition, yet won the A.J.C. Derby, the
Victoria Derby, the Futurity Stakes and
other good races. Autopay was another
“beggar to sweat.” The day Ammon
Ra won the A.J.C. Derby and Auto-
pay the Epsom, sweat was pouring off
both. They were both highly strung,
and in these cases profuse sweating is
an effect of nervousness. It takes more
out of some horses than others ; appar-
ently, the better they are the better they
stand it.
Some racing men have a genius for
summing up the. condition of a horse at
a glance. Of one it used to be said that
“battlers” stood in awe of him, his know-
ledge was so much greater than theirs.
“Want' me to back your horse, eh?” he
would say to one of these gentry. “Well,
let’s have a look at him.” Naturally the
inspection would not be delayed. “No,
I’m not going to back your horse, Battle-
axe,” the genius would remark curtly.
“You’ve been too dashed easy with him.”
Another who had come with a simi-
lar entreaty might get the answer: “No ;
it’d be throwing good money away to
punt on your herring-gutted brute.
You’ve given him too much work.”
How is the ordinary punter to tell when
the steed he proposes to back is ready
to give of his best? The writer put this
query long ago to an old “head,” who
had seen all the Melbourne Cups from
Archer’s to The Grafter’s, and lived long
enough to deny hotly that Phar Lap was
Carbine’s equal. He looked hard at the
questioner and resumed his inspection
of horses being led round the weighing
enclosure.
Presently the veteran nudged the in-
quirer and said: “ ’Ave a screw at' that
prad there. The chestnut, I mean. Look
at ’is ’indquarters. See that little firm
ball of sweat between ’em, ’igh up? Look
’ard an’ you’ll spot it. Well, I’d say
that was a fit ’orse. When a ’orse ’as
that, an’ it’s the only bit o’ sweat' about
’im, an’ it don’t break an’ smear ’im all
over the place, it’s a sign ’e’s in good
nick. An’ I always like to see a prad
I fancy anxious to walk faster than the
stable boy’ll let ’im—thrust ’is ’ead
forward, if you follow me.” I thought I
followed him, and said so.
“I’m not telling you,” the ancient con-
cluded, “that all ’orses who ’ave the
little ball of sweat an’ are keen on
’avin’ their ’eads are trained to the
minute; for all ’orses ’ave their little
’abits an’ they run in all shapes, as
the saying is. But they’re good signs,
young feller—good signs.”
Ins and Outs
Victoria beat S.A. in their match at
Melbourne by 15 runs on the first in-
nings. South Australia’s first knock
finished at 386 (Ebeling 4 for 74). The
Victorians went for batting practice in
their second try, and had lost seven for
403 at stumps (Rigg 105 and Darling
102 ; Waite 4 for 65).
“Hotham”: Bradman’s 192 for S.A. v.
Victoria brings his total in Sheffield
games to 5564 for 59 innings—fourth to
Richardson, Hill and Kippax, all of
whom have topped the 6000 mark, but
have played many more innings. In all
first-class games the lad is now fifth on
the Australian list, Hill, Bardsley, Arm-
strong and Trumper heading him.
Seriously, if other batsmen of the Brad-
man type develop—and there is no reason
why they should not—we may yet see
a system of handicapping individual
players as is done in polo. People used
to talk of the glorious uncertainty of
cricket. If ever a player has made that
old tag look shopworn it is Bradman.
* * * *
On the whole, spectators had a dreary
time watching the England-N.S.W.
match, but there was a bit of excite-
ment the last quarter of an hour. Faced
with 447 to win and a day,and a bit to
do it, England played for a draw, and
Hammond (91) and Leyland (79) looked
like achieving it. But', on a slightly
crumbled wicket, O’Reilly got four bats-
men l.b.w., and N.S.W. won by 135.
O’Reilly finished a bowling turn of 38
overs with 5 for 67, Mudge took 2 for
86, and left-hander White acquired merit
by dismissing Hammond and Leyland,
two wickets for 23.
* * * *
“Gabba”,: Having discarded Gilbert,
on whom so many hopes were reposed,
Q.C.A. selectors have picked a couple
of slow spinners for the first match with
England—Gooma and Franz. Both are
youngsters who have been doing well in
grade cricket.
# * * *
“Drayton”: Australians are welcom-
ing that pleasant chap Arthur Gilligan,
who captained the 1924-25 English team
in this country. He led a strong side,
too, though he could win only one of
the four Tests. He achieved fame in
another way when, after he had fought a
losing battle with Toowoomba mos-
quitoes, a Bulletin bard immortalised
the incident in a “Ballade of the Biting
of Gilligan.”
* * * *
“Glenelg”: There are signs that the
name of Richardson may continue in
S.A. cricket. Bowling for Glenelg against
West Torrens, Brian Richardson, son
of “A.J.,” took 8 for 39.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Every season our first-
class cricketers get faddier and faddier.
If one of them stubs his toe on a blade
of grass he must have a substitute to
field for him. Sparrows intruding on the
playing oval have to be shooed off before


: nfnyyzruw T? ifyioS.
-SXSII 3HI MOIIOI
mm
7
& V
SSSSftI
mm
*
111111 l
ill®
m
mm
11
illlilil
isfiSK®
mi
HR
y
am
H
mm
mi
mi
a*
i:
M
RICKET is now the topipof the tby!
Will Australio retain ti<sl ashes? Cart Bfad“
man continue his record-breaking ways?’ ilsWll'.?
Hammond rival Bradman? . . . . '• a -
and one other queries are raised. \' •• • '.i
Enjoy the commentary of the Test senes Irqr# tlb/
comfort of your own arm-chair. Own a GENA.UEX
Radio Receiver marketed in Australia l-tjy
Sft.S.G. for their Parent Company, that world-widg-
organization The General Electric Company Ltd:’.-;
of England.
There are plenty of models to choose from. Table,
Console and Radiogram models . . . Dual-Wave
or Broadcast . . . Battery operated or All Electric
... all of singular design and unsurpassable value.
GENALEI
Q^udio
AUTHORISED "GENALEX" DEALERS IN ALL CENTRES
.
mim
as
m
ill
m
A
Xa
m
J
»
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. # LTD.
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Perth, Hobart and Launceston
Sole Agents at Brisbane and Adelaide.
"G ENALEX" RADIO MAKES AN IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT.
CRAFTSMEN-TAILORED
SHIRTS
To Measure
Quick Service
by Post.
R-4
1
/ .v' C
Vi
y
fou can nave a high-grade, perfectly fitting shirt to
neasure that meets every personal preference—at
little more than the cost of an ordinary shirt that
iust fits “here and there.” An Allars’ shirt to
neasure gives you that same EXTRA comfort, EXTRA
wear and EXTRA value that makes all the difference
between a tailored and a ready-made suit. In an
Allars' shirt to measure you get:—
1. —Perfect fitting.
2. —Correct sleeve length.
3. —Extra reinforcement at neck.
4. —Two collars with tabs and bones (if
desired).
5. —Pull body length.
«.—Tailored sleeves.
7. —Choice of a wide selection of patterns
and shades.
An Ideal Christinas Gift!
We have hundreds of satisfied customers everywhere
and a 38-year—old reputation for highest quality and
i guarantee of satisfaction.
Conran imt Scrnre, l>n J’oxl: If you cannot call,
simply till in this announcement, tear out and post
it to day:—
C. J. ALLARS,
Fine Shirt Craftsman,
G Imperial Arcade, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please post me, without obligation, samples of
shirtings priced from 15/(1 upwards, to measure.
Also easy measurement form. The colour f prefer is:
NAME . .
ADDRESS
m&
IK.:
¥
m
>[ i
11
■
-: : S :
#BBB
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
TILLY FLEISCHER ( Germany )
who created a tmv Olympic Record
for Women’s Javelin Throw with
148 ft. 3 ins. at the Berlin Olympic
Games.
This outstanding champion
possesses a graceful physical
symmetry essential to rhyth-
metical action in her branch
of athletics.
Rhythm, poise, balance, in
addition to abundant physical
strength and energy, are the
qualifications of the successful
javelin thrower, just as they are
the outstanding features of the
Australian-made champions
Olympic Cyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles !
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
play can proceed. The latest fuss is
over the sightboards on the S.C.G.,
which for years have done service with-
out awakening complaints. Now, it
appears, they are too transparent. If any
unfortunate sitting behind one moves
to get a sight of the game he takes the
batsman’s attention from the ball and
so upsets his nervous system that he
probably loses his wicket. At Lord’s
there is no sightboard for one end of
the pitch—the swing doorway of the
members’ bar is where it should be. On
a hot day these doors are constantly on
the move with thirsty souls rushing in
and out, yet batsmen make runs, though
the spectacle of fortunates bustling in
for beer while they have to swelter out
on a hot pitch with throats like lime-
kilns must be agony to them.
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: McGrath took, or shared
in the taking, of all the Queensland
tennis championships save the events for
women only. Bromwich he beat in
straight sets in the singles ; Chave was
his partner in the doubles, and Miss
Hartigan in the mixed doubles. The
women’s singles was won by Miss
Wynne, of Victoria, whose astonishing
service left even such players as Mrs’
MoJesworth and Miss Hartigan helpless.
Queensland scored its solitary success
when Mrs. Westacott and Miss Hard-
castle defeated Misses Hartigan and
Hattersley.
One notable feature was the appear-
ance ol a freak player in opposition to
McGrath and Bromwich. This lad,
Jackson by label, hails from Mackay,
where the rum comes from. He plays
all shots with both hands. A pretty use-
ful sort withal, and he may gain a place
in the Queensland junior side for the
Linton Cup.
“Toowong”: Nancy Wynne tremen-
dously impressed Queensland, which, in
Mrs. Molesworth and Mrs. Westacott,
has produced women champions of its
own. The verdict in Brisbane is that
she is the best all-round player since
the late Daphne Akhurst, backing up a
severe service with splendid ground and
overhead shots, while she is a topnotch
volleyer.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Good news to hear that
Hopman will partner Quist in the
doubles at the N.S.W. championships.
It is doubtful if a better doubles com-
bination can be found anywhere. These
lads and McGrath, who is showing a
welcome return to his best form, would
make a worth-while combination to send
overseas.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Davis Cup dates for
the inter-zone and challenge rounds have
been fixed, and, as usual, all concerned
are grumbling. The inter-zone final
begins at Wimbledon on July 17, and the
challenge round a week later. As was
the case last season these closing fixtures
have, been crammed too close together.
Wimbledon does not finish until July 3,
and the European zone final will be
played off only a week later, with the
inter-zone to follow almost: at once. This
gives the winners of the European zone
three stiff matches in three weeks —too
much to ask half-way through a heavy
season.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Australian L.T.A..
which is generally regarded as a nark
by N.S.W., has behaved uncommon
handsome to the grumpy Sydney crowd.
It has allotted £lOO to provide special
coaching for Bromwich, Huxley, Gil-
christ and Lindo, all N.S.W. lads. In
effect, the recent squeal about Victorian
domination in Australian tennis was a
bit premature.
Miscellaneous
“Divot Digger”: It is likely a match
for charity between Jim Ferrier and Von
Nida will come off in Sydney shortly.
With both in form it should be a great
go. Von Nida won the open champion-
ship of Queensland two years ago when
Ferrier was a competitor, but the Syd-
ney amateur was not an entrant this yeai
when the Queenslander retained his title.
Matches between amateurs and profes-
sionals are not often seen in this coun-
try, though common elsewhere.
sjc $ :J: *
“Ellis Park”: Though the team will
not be here until June, the South African
R.U. has already picked 51 men for the
trials. As time wears on and some drop
out other aspirants will be chosen. It
is expected that Danje Craven, rated by
the Afrikanders as the world’s best scrum
half, will be skipper. He was a thorr
in the side of the Wallabies. Fourteen
others who played in Tests against oui
men are included in the trial commando.


Tiie Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: ‘Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting ail
classes of Idle Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
You cant overlook
‘yOR SECUjR/rjg
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
An investment in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies in the
Commonwealth.
Your funds are protected by the Custodian Trustees:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Union Building, Bond-street, Sydney.
Ask for full particulars from: Any Stockbroker, the Custodian Trustees, or direct from
the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.,
’Phone: 85294. 8-14 Bond Street, Sydney. Box 4028VV, G.P.0., Sydney.
DIRECTORS:
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager The Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Norman L Cowper, Esq., Solicitor, Messrs. Allen Allen and Hemsley, Sydney.
John A. L Gunn, Esq., F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
Palmer Kent, Esq., Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank of Australasia.
Extra Wear from the
Strong and Serviceable
“STRONGHOLD”
Work Shirt
Made from particularly strong Man-
chester shirting, with collar attached and
two pleated breast pockets, with button
flaps. Available, ready to wear, in plain
Blue and plain Fawn, also in BlQe with
White or Black stripes. All guaranteed
fast colours.
Please state Collar size when ordering.
Write to-day for full range of patterns.
Price 10/6 each or 3 for 30/-
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Oil from What, and How?
Oil from coal, oil from shale, power-
alcohol from sugarcane and vegetables
—which, if any, is it going to be for
Australia, and which will be economi-
cally the best?
For many years since the war, produc-
tion of volatile motor spirits from
various raw materials has greatly in-
terested scientists and chemists in
European and other countries where
well-oil is scarce or doesn’t exist. The
internal-combustion engine is supreme
for fast and light land-, water- and air-
craft, and petrol and Diesel-oil are the
fuels. The United States, which pro-
duces synthetic rubber and silk to some
extent, isn’t particularly concerned about
synthetic petrol because of the country’s
natural oil resources. Britain and Ger-
many are —Britain because oil doesn’t
flow, or at least is yet untapped on a
commercial scale, in its islands, and
overseas supplies might be cut off dur-
ing a war; Germany also because of
Nature’s neglect and
for the further reason
that it has no oil in-
terests to compare with
the Royal Dutch-Shell
or Anglo-Iranian con-
cerns.
Australia has no
proved gusher oil,
though at Lakes En-
trance (Vic.), Roma
(Q.) and a few other
spots crude oil has
been got by bailing. On
the other hand, it has
some of the richest oil-
shales in the world,
though they occur in
rather narrow seams.
Also it has large fields
of coal that is high in
volatile matter gas
and oil elements. There
is, in addition, a power-
alcohol factory at
Sarina (Q.) which pro-
cesses sugarcane resi-
dues.
Synthetic petrol is a political play-
thing in this country. Around it revolves
several vital issues, chief of which is
defence. Mr. Stevens, Premier of N. S.
Wales, spoke in expansive terms at
Maitland the other day about a hydro-
genation plant on the coalfields, told his
listeners that arrangements had been
made to send Australians to be trained
as operatives at the 1.C.1. works at Bil-
lingham (Eng.), and then sidestepped
responsibility by saying that further pro-
gress would largely depend on Common-
wealth Government policy and finance.
So far as coal is concerned, there are
two principal methods of extracting oil
—by low-temperature carbonisation and
by hydrogenation. The first method is
the simpler, and calls for the less ex-
pensive plant, but it results in large
quantities of gas and other by-products
(such as smokeless fuel) being turned
out besides petrol. Unless a market is
available for the by-products, cost of
the petrol output is too high.
Chief idea behind the hydrogenation
process is that, by the admixture of
hydrogen with the gases obtained, a
maximum return of petrol can be got,
with a minimum of by-products. Be-
sides a means of separating the oil and
gases from coal, a plant to make hydro-
gen is necessary. The capital cost seems
to be enormous. If a unit capable of
producing 50,000,000 gallons of petrol
a year were to cost £10,000,000, as has
been suggested, with a life of 10 years
depreciation would amount to sd. a
gallon in the petrol cost —2|d. a gallon if
the plant lasted 20 years.
So far as oil from shale is concerned,
£500,000 would erect a plant capable of
turning out a quantity of oil which,
though not nearly enough to supply the
Commonwealth’s full requirements (over
230,000,000 gallons a year), would
guarantee a supply for defence purposes
in the event of war. One drawback to
this scheme is that there is a limited
quantity of shale available in any one.
area, but for emergency oil-fuel necessi-
ties the Newnes (N.S.W.) deposits do
appear to have the greatest immediate
attractions when capital outlay, etc.,
is taken into account.
When a trading bank advances money
for, say, building purposes these days,
some of the money comes back in
the deposits of suppliers of builders’
materials, and deposits of tradespeople
who have supplied food, clothing, etc., to
“You’ll sew mailbags”
“How perfectly thrilling! I LOVE needlework .”
workmen, but a substantial proportion
goes into the savings banks. During the
worst of the depression, when unem-
ployed were drawing on their savings,
the position was the opposite; savings-
bank deposits dropped quickly, and as
this money found its way into business
channels trading banks became embar-
rassed by funds which they couldn’t
profitably lend. At present trading-bank
deposits are receding, savings-bank de-
posits (now a record) increasing. The
savings institutions lend mostly on long
terms, on security that is often not as
liquid as, say, stocks, crops or book debts,
The trading banks themselves have to do
a quantity of this business. Every time
a bank makes an advance it creates a
debt on itself which may be repayable
call while the advance made may be
for a fixed and long period. Trading
now f £ wi(h , he situa .
do make , oans , he
money doesn>t a „ J re(um t 0 them> thus
y p making a difficult situation worse,
&
Good stocks, well bought, fare best
in a market setback. Gordon and
Gotch ords. have actually firmed 2s. (to
535.) during the unsteadiness of the past
two weeks, and still give a yield of over
4.5 p.c. Yarra Falls, David Jones ords.,
Castlemaine Perkins, Prestige ords. and
Intercolonial Land and Building are
among the issues liked by this page for
a long while that have shown progress
during the last uncertain week or so.
Some shares, like Mauri Bros, and
Broken Hill Prop., have slipped a bit,
but they still show great appreciation
when compared with the quotations of
even two months ago.
* * * *
A sign of the times, and others likely
to follow. In 1934 Permewan, Wright,
Ltd., a produce-agency and carrying co.
operating in the Vic. and N.S.W. outback,
returned ss. per share (£31,250) of its
capital, which at that time it could not
profitably employ. Some shareholders
expressed reluctance at taking the
money, as they also considered that an-
other worth-while investment would be
difficult to find. With recovery in busi-
ness over the past two years P.W.’s
board has suddenly found that funds in
excess of those handed back in 1934 can
now be used, and 50,000 £1 shares at a
premium of 4s. (to bring in £60,000 al-
together) are to be offered to share-
holders. The market for the old £1
shares is at 28s.
Washington H. Soul shares rapidly
shot to 90s. last Saturday, after seeing 725.
the previous week. When the rumor
that Boots might become interested in
this concern was first mentioned in B.
4/11/’36, the shares were at 80s. 6d.
seller, after sales at 82s. Then came a
slump, but when the directors last Thurs-
day “declined to confirm” rather than
deny the story, the shares rose 15s. in
two days. Souls have been dispensing
on an ingredient-cost basis for some
time.
❖ * * *
The Canberra Government last week
introduced a bill to defeat “freight-
dumping”—that' is, unfair competition
from overseas goods in the Australian
market by virtue of freight cuts by ship-
ping cos. that were not contemplated by
the Government when tariffs were im-
posed or revised. Dumping-freight duty
under the bill will be calculated as “the
difference between the actual freight paid
or payable and the normal rate of
freight.” The Minister for Customs is
to have the privilege of determining what
is a “normal” rate for any. class of
goods. Some goods cost over £3 a ton
to be shipped to or from England by the
regular services; on the other hand,
cement has been brought out in bal-
last for less than £1 a ton. If dumping-
freight duty and/or actual freight
amounted to £2 10s. a ton it would
hardly pay to ship English cement to the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
Meggitt, Ltd., fully-paid ordinaries
rose to the record price of 30s. last week
in anticipation of an increased interim
div. in January. The association with
Michael Nairn and Co. (Aust.), now
manufacturng linoleums at a profit (10.6
p.c. was earned on capital last term), has
proved valuable, and Meggitts have es-
tablished other worth-while connections
in the linseed-oil business. In the co. s
last term 81 p.c. was paid, including a
21 p.c. “bonus.” If a straightout 8 p.c.
is paid this term the yield at 30s. would
be 5.3 p.c.
* * * *
Tooths’ claimed profit of £696,027,
equal to 11.8 p.c. on average capital, for
the year ended September 30 compares
with 11.2 p.c. in the preceding term.
The sharemarket was disappointed with
the div. (steady at 10 p.c.), especially in
view of the fact that in 1934-35 a jubi-
lee bonus of 21 p.c. was tacked on.
# $ * $
Shareholders in Westinghouse Sales
and Rosebery, Ltd., Sydney, who were
offered 25,000 extra £1 ords. on October
21, took the lot within a month, and
were willing to take more. When the
new scrip is fully paid, capital will be
£150,000 in 125,000 ords. and 25,000
prefs.
sjc jjc H 4
Some of the drawbacks of the Lady
Shenton mine (Menzies, W.A.) from a
shareholder’s viewpoint as expressed by
chairman MacCallum Smith in Perth last
week:
(1) The amount of ore reserves as well
as the gold content was disappointing.
(2) The plant had not operated to the
satisfaction of the managers and was costly
to run.
(3) Water supply was a major problem,
and requirements cost £25 a week.
(4) The co. had £5OOO in hand, but the
board had exhausted calling-power on
shares.
However, Mr. Smith was hopeful that
if the plant could be made to function
satisfactorily some profit might be won.
There had been “hopeful” developments
underground. There is talk of writing
off capital—a big figure was paid to the
vendors—and the ss. shares are down
to Is. 3d.
* * * *
It has been hard to buy Melbourne
Steam ords. the last few days. Notice
was given to them here a fortnight ago
when they were at 275.; after several
hundred changed hands at rising prices,
activity stalled at 28s. 6d. buyer, 295.
seller. They were particularly attractive
at 275.. and should be good for holding
at the present market.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Following a lift in lead to £22 10s. sterling in
London, and in spelter to £l6 7s. 6d., North
Broken Hill shares firmed to £l2 55., while
B. H. South quotes jumped to £7 16s.
Mt. Lyell announced that the net cost of
production of its electrolytic copper, after de-
ducting value of the gold and silver content,
had fallen from £43.09 (Aust.) in 1934-35 to
£42.74 in 1935-36. This despite a water and
power shortage during the year. Mining from
the West Lyell opencut, from which 60 p.c.
of the ore was won, assisted in producing
copper at the lowest cost on record, despite
lower-grade ore.
Australian Cement shares recovered to 305.,
and were again at a premium over Kandos
(N.S.W.) scrip.
Holeproof ords. rose sharply to 28s. 3d. on
heavy buying. This co. is now doing very well.
Accounts will be made up after Dec. 31.
Consols weakened decidedly after announce-
ment of the new loan. Including redemption,
4 p.c. is now shown in several cases.


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Moss - - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Girls’ Dormitory”
Dramatic situations whose develop-
nient depends upon a concatenation of
improbabilities are usually not worth de-
veloping. No exception to the rule is
the suggestively-named opus under re-
view. Setting is a girls’ school with a
French name, an Austrian Tyrolese scene
and a Prussian atmosphere. Since it has
a staff of “professors,” many of them
male, and “graduates” its students after
a four years’ course, it seems like a uni-
Herbert Marshall in “Girls’ Dormitory,”
at Sydney Embassy.
versity college, but' the discipline is that
of an orphanage. The pupil all the fuss
is about is .a 19-year-old French girl
(Simone Simon) who, despite four years
in this school, of which her mother was
also a “graduate,” speaks English—the
only language used in this astonishingly
cosmopolitan institution —with some
difficulty.
All that happens in the dormitory is
a pillow-fight. The heart-throbs come
from the fact that the absent-minded but
handsome Herr Director (Herbert Mar-
shall) is loved by a lady piofessor (Ruth
Chatterton) and by the French girl.
The girl writes an imaginary love-
letter to her idol and leaves it in a waste-
paper basket that is regularly ransacked
by a prude on the prowl. Letter
is identified by girl’s writing (but don't
they all write very much alike at
school?), and she is called before the
professorial board, “cross-examined” and
threatened with expulsion. She explains
matters privately to Miss Chatterton, is
exonerated, but wanders out into a storm.
Just as she is about to hurl herself from
the brink of a precipice she is caught up
in the strong arms of Herr Director. She
tells her love; it is reciprocated.
But there’s a complication. Girl,
learning that favorite teacher has long
loved Herr Director, tells him it was
a joke. Of course that little misunder-
standing is soon swept away.
Simone Simon is clever, but too sophis-
ticated for the part. Marshall, who has
a gift for looking pained, exercises it
continually. No wonder. Rest of the cast-
ing is excellent—far too good for such
stuff. At Sydney Embassy.
“No. 15 Maiden Lane”
Second string at Sydney Embassy. The
address is the N’Yark equivalent of
Hatton Garden, and there is naturally
a welter of jewel thieves and thievery.
The machinations of ruthless and clever
gangsters are brought to naught by the
intrepid cleverness of a beautiful young
goil (Claire Trevor), who would be more
successful in these refained parts if her
Bowery accent were less obtrusive.
Cesar Romero gets a star role as chief
gangster, and Lloyd Nolan has a soft
snap as a detective-sergeant who is kept
posted about the intentions of the crooks
and therefore is able to nab them very
nicely. Smoothly acted and brisk in
''action, it makes good entertainment.
“The Voice of Bugle Ann”
Whether this is a true picture of
rural Missouri or not, it gives opportunity
for a film well out of the beaten track,
and enables Lionel Barrymore to shine
forth in one of the finest pieces of charac-
ter-acting he has ever achieved.
He’s Springwood Davis, usually known
as “Spring,” a 70-year-old farmer, raising
wheat and spuds and running an orchard.
It appears these Missourians go in for
fox-hunting and breed some mighty nice
hounds. As Spring puts it, they “don’t
dress up in no funny caps nor go caper-
ing round on hosses.” They don’t “follow
the hounds” at all, save by ear; all
the hunting is done on dark nights, and
there is never a kill, the chase ending
when the fox runs to earth.
Bugle Ann is the apple of Spring’s eye,
a lady-hound with a sonorous bay which
her fond owner declares is “the mos’
beautiful in all Mizzouri.” Comes to the
district a saturnine Mr. Terry (Dudley
Digges) who “aims to keep sheep,” and
puts a square-meshed wire fence round
his farm. Spring and other neighbors
point out that this fence will just let the
fox through, but the hounds, being bigger,
may come to harm. Terry says he
doesn’t care what happens to ’em, and
if they or any other interlopers are found
on his property he’ll fill ’em full of lead.
One dark night the hunt comes to Terry’s
farm, the hounds barge into the wire, and
Bugle Ann, after one yelp, disappears.
Spring is convinced that Terry killed her,
so next morning he takes his gun, goes to
Terry’s house and shoots him dead.
Spring goes to trial, makes no defence
save justification, and is sentenced to
20 years in gaol.
That’s the set-up, as the Americans say,
of the drama. In its subsequent working
out Maureen O’Sullivan as Terry’s
daughter, Charley Grapewin as an old
farmer and many other members of a
capable cast take part. The happy ending
Edward J. Bromberg in “Girls’
Dormitory.”
is mechanical, but such a character as
Spring Davis could carry a much weaker
plot. At Sydney Civic.
“Absolute Quiet”
Somewhat in the vein of “Petrified
Forest.” A big business panjandrum,
ordered rest and quiet, is staying at his
country home, when it is invaded by a
pair of killers, Jack and Judy. Those
desperadoes and their unwilling host are
joined by the passengers from a ’plane
that has made a forced descent. Among
the newcomers is the Governor of the
State. He is forced to sign a free pardon
for the killers. The commercial mag-
nate, who hates the Governor and every-
one else in the assembly, takes a mali-
cious pleasure in abetting the crooks.
The climax is violent and sensational.
Lionel Atwill as the unscrupulous finan-
cier dominates the action till near the
finish. He has never been more effective.
Ann Loring as a breezy crook and Stuart
Erwin as a reporter, fed up to the eyes
with the oleaginous Governor (Raymond
Simone Simon in “Girls’ Dormitory
Walburn), are also well cast. The dra-
matic elements in the situation are well
handled. At Sydney Civic.
“The Beloved Vagabond”
At Sydney Mayfair, the story from
Locke’s novel. Maurice Chevalier, who
plays the vagabond, is growing plump and
lacks some of his old spontaneity, but
gives a recognisable picture of the light-
hearted, chivalrous Paragot. Australian
actress Betty -Stock-field plays, in conven-
tional fashion, the lady of breeding who
cannot forget' her high station. Margaret
Lockwood, dark, petite and natural, pro-
vides a delightful contrast as Blanquette,
the-French entertainer. Desmond Tester,
the boy who plays the hero-worshipping
Asticot, is a real find.
The film has many joyous bit's. There
is a rhythmic gaiety about the travels
of Paragot and his two young charges
which is reminiscent of parts of “Escape
Me Never.” The interest wanes after the
tour for all except deep-in-the-dye senti-
mentalists. They will enjoy Paragot’s
efforts to forget his old love, Blanquette’s
tears, and the completely happy ending.
“This Green Hell”
This Sydney Mayfair second film out-
weighs the fopliner. It is a well-built
story of a meek London clerk who seeks
escape from humdrum existence by living
in imagination the yarns he has read in
adventure magazines. From daydreaming
he goes on to telling the tales to strangers
as true incidents, with himself as hero.
His family gets wind of his peculiarity
and shames him with gibes. Then he is
involved in a train smash and is presumed
to have been killed. Later, having lost
his memory, he is : seen as a bearded
tramp exciting a publisher’s agent with
thrilling yarns of wild days in Brazil.
The agent persuades the derelict to dic-
tate the yarns to a ghost writer. They
are published, the book becomes a best-
seller, and the clerk has notoriety as a
wild, outlandish character. His family
pops up and exposes him to the pub-
lisher. The clerk’s memory returns. Ruin
and ridicule face all concerned if the
truth is allowed to get out. So the clerk
has to continue the deception to the
profit of his publisher, family and him-
self. The acting is good. Edward Rigby
as the central figure is alternately humble
and ferocious. Sybil Grove excels as a
thin-lipped virago, and Richard Dolman
puts pep into another minor part.
“China Clipper”
The story of an aviation big-shot who
does not hesitate to sacrifice his wife and
his chief ’plane designer in stretching
his air-routes over the Americas and
tapping the China trade.
A great actor could have, made this
compelling Caesar believable, won him
begrudged sympathy and made it under-
standable that his wife, his best pilot
and his financial backer should crawl
back to him. But Pat O’Brien just stands
round looking tough and talking fast.
The climax is a race across the Pacific
to establish a U.S.A.-China travel route.
A typhoon is encountered. Interesting,
but this China-clipper stuff has been
done more authentically by the news
films. At Sydney Plaza.
“The Captain’s Kid”
May Robson and Guy Kibbee revolv-
ing round a precocious youngster, Sybil
Jason. One continually barks at the
mite; the other drools sentiment over
her. The gifted child patches up the
busted romance between them and re-
covers lost treasure, but not before she,
by repeating yarns Kibbee had told of
his bloodstained adventures, nearly has
him indicted for murder at an inquest
on a gangster. There is some humor in
the casual ways of the fishing-town
which is the scene of action, especially in
its treatment of prisoners, but like most
of these essays in child-idolatry the
affair, generally speaking, is boresome.
At Sydney Plaza.
“Meet Nero Wolfe”
Most picturesque of fictional detec-
tives since Sherlock Holmes, Rex
Stout’s beer-drinking, orchid-growing re-
cluse provides Edward Arnold with a
role in which he can neatly exploit his
versatility as a character actor. The
plot is workmanlike; there are no
threads hanging loose after the denoue-
ment, and interest is held to the finish.
Such of the comedy element as is not
provided by Wolfe is delegated to his
assistant, Archie (Lionel Stander), who is
provided with a comic sweetheart
(Dennie, Moore), but their by-plays are
brief and don’t sidetrack the main issue.
Roland Young in “The Man Who Could
Work Miracles,” at Sydney Lyceum.
Victor Jory, Walter Kingsford, Russell
Hardie and Frank Conroy are other
members of a well-chosen cast who have
most chance to sparkle. Joan Perry and
John Qualen are mostly used as back-
ground. Even without Arnold’s masterly
touch the thriller would be worth while.
With it, it is a model of its genre. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Orphan of the Wilderness”
Here at last is an Australian film that
can hold its own anywhere, at home or
abroad; one in which, cutting adrift
from cheap melodrama and American-
ised gangster episodes, the producers
have presented a straightforward and
feasible story.


Story Writing
During the seven years that Bernard Cronin
has been accepting pupils in the art and
practice of story writing, he has completely
justified his claim that, to those with an urge
to write who will work patiently and con-
sistently, he can make available many of the
lessons he himself has learned during 20
years of authorship.
Write for free copy of his prospectus,
“Story Writing,” to
Bernard Cronin
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
BY SEA
TO
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
(Via Adelaide)
A Glorious Round Tour of 19 Days from
Sydney and 14 Days from Melbourne
A DELIGHTFUL HOLIDAY ON THE MODERN LUXURIOUS
INTERSTATE LINERS—
M.V. “Westralia” M.V. “Kanimbla ’
M.Y. “Manoora”
M.V. “Dimtroon’ ’ T.S.s.'‘Katoomba”
Sailings Every Saturday from Sydney
Sailings Every Tuesday from Melbourne
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS
For Further Particulars Apply
Huddart Parker, Ltd. Adelaide S. Co., Ltd.
Mcllwraith McEacharn, Ltd. Melbourne S. Co., Ltd.
At Sydney and Melbourne.
On your
NEUU ZEfILRND
TOUR
&
The port of Lyttelton — Gate-
way to the Cathedral City of
Christchurch and the Canter-
bury Province.
m
■Bm?.
ms ■■
mmm
m
TT-
•••••.
tm
mmtmswtiK,
mmmm*.
Mmrnm
iP^:
ii£*
m i lili
i %wmm
WM
U% I WX&t
Lake Matheson with Fcx Glacier in distance .
Glorious Scenery of
Inspiring Grandeur
No New Zealand tour is complete that does not in-
clude the South Island. Here is majestic mountain
scenery—Mt. Cook, the Remarkables, the Franz Josef,
Fox and Tasman Glaciers—or beautiful lake districts,
where bush-fringed shore is reflected in the glistening
surfaces. Here, too, you will be enraptured by
the glories of Fiordland, the Milford Sound and
For full particulars, write, call
- or ’phone:
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
14 Martin Place, Sydney. 'Phone
B 7043
(Directly opposite G.P.0.)
aNdisiiTHx-nos
the deep calm waterways of the Marlborough Sounds.
Even in the cities and towns there is much to see and
much to do. Such places as Lyttelton, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Akaroa and Hanmer have historical attrac-
tions that lend interest and variety to a holiday
tour. Come South when you come to New
Zealand.
Collins House, 360 Collins St.,
Melbourne. 'Phone Cent. 3110.
King House, 79 Queen St., Brisbane.
(and all Travel Agents)
An orphaned joey ’roo, its mother
fallen to a hunter’s bullet, is befriended
by a young pastoralist, Tom Henton
(Brian Abbot), and his mother (Ethel
Saker). Tom teaches joey to box. He
gives it and a young doe to a circus
owner (Henry Abdy). He learns that the
animal has been ill-treated, and the
climax is a willing scrap between the
circus men and Tom’s pals.
The early sequences in which ’roos,
koalas and kookaburras are seen moving
freely in their natural habitat are most
surprisingly excellent; even Hollywood
has done nothing better in this genre.
There is one gem of a shot in which a
joey scrambles into its mother’s pouch,
and another delightful bit of marsupial
comedy when a koala tries to climb a
slender sapling, looking absurdly sur-
prised and waddling off in high dudgeon
when it bites the dust.
Director Ken Hall, putting his best
into it, has kept the film moving briskly.
There is plenty of red-blooded action ;
a flying tackle by one rider at another
off galloping horses will have any audi-
ence gripping its chair-sides.
Casting is sound —Brian Abbot, blend-
ing manliness with acting ability ; Gwen
Munro, making a debut marked by
charm and intelligence; Joe Valli,
revelling in the role of a comical,
flustered J.P.; Ronald Whelan and
Harry Abdy, solid as two brutal circus
men ; Ethel Saker, motherly and sympa-
thetic ; Sylvia Kellaway and Edna Mont-
gomery, satisfactory in smaller parts. A
special word of praise is due to George
Heath’s splendid photography and the
fine settings of J. Allen Kenyon. Pre-
viewed at Sydney Liberty.
Some First Nights
The performance of “Princess Ida” at
Sydney Royal on Saturday night pleased
the audience, and applause was frequent
and enthusiastic. The operetta, least
memorable of the G. and S. series, offers
only the subsidiary part of King Gama
to Ivan Menzies. Most of the limelight
goes to Princess Ida, played in this in-
stance by Winifred Lawson with good
effect. A feature of the presentation was
some excellent part-singing by minor
characters, and the chorus and orchestra,
as ever, were excellent.
*2* *l* * *
Sydney last week was shown two new
plays by Clifford Odets. Both were
staged at the Savoy, the New Theatre
people putting on “Paradise Lost” and
the Independents “Awake and Sing.”
Odets is a realist with much the same
technique as Chekhov, though he sees
glimmers of hope amid the economic
tangle. His plays gain momentum in the
first few lines and move at breakneck
speed throughout. Most of his charac-
ters are noisy, crude and selfish and ex-
press despair in biting phrases. Almost
all are depression-period neurasthenics.
In “Paradise Lost” Odets is concerned
with the disintegration of the middle-
class ; in “Awake and Sing” with the
conflict between the rising generation
and its environment. “Awake and Sing”
was given by far the superior perform-
ance. Producer Doris Fitton selected
her players wisely and rehearsed them
well. The presentation was marred only
by a little halting in the third act and
by difficulties with American and Jew-
ish accents. Agnes Cullen overshadowed
the rest of the cast with a compelling
study of a voluble, dominating, shrewd
Jewish mother, battling to hold her
family together. Alfred Race was her
subdued husband. As the daughter in-
tent upon a richer life, her designs tem-
porarily thwarted by a social lapse, Marie
Rosenfeld was terse and direct. John
Alden furnished a vivid portrayal of a
cynical war-wreck who knew what he
wanted and got it. As the sensitive son
seeking to lift himself out of the. rut, but
lacking push, Howard Craven was con-
vincing. Arthur S. Reardon was sound
as the grandfather. The. scenery—an
apartment in the Bronx —was designed by
Harold Abbott.
“Paradise Lost” depicts a middle-class
household before and after it takes a
knockout at the hands of General
Depresh. Its members haven’t the poise
of the class above nor the adaptability
of the one below. All they can do when
faced with ruination is to dither and
dally, cling childishly to exploded notions
or seek comfort in silly pastimes. Though
the author is impatient with them for
their bewildered gropings, he brings to
light their good points. The end could
be improved. It' savors of a soapbox
oration.
Players fumbled and mumbled then
lines, and only a few minor parts
were really well done. But the material
is there.
Current Artbursts
Sydney’s g.o.m. among painters, Julian
Ashton, had especial reason last week to
feel that he had not lived in vain, for
“In St. Mary’s,” etching by Harold
Byrne at Rubery Bennett’s galleries,
Sydney.
two of his pupils were staging meritori-
ous exhibitions of their work. Will Ash-
ton (no relation) spread on the walls of
David Jones’s gallery the harvest of some
happy years recently spent in France and
Spain. This Ashton is a painter of
mature years and ripe experience, but he
has never settled into a rut, and his
latest offerings mark a substantial ad-
vance on his previous work. The touch
is firmer and surer ; an indefinable bleak-
ness of tone has been replaced by some-
thing mellower. In all these multifarious
glimpses of the bridges of Paris, the
market-places and quaint lanes of
French and Spanish provincial towns and
the sunlit white walls of Morocco the
artist’s means of expression are adequate,
his statement is clear and lucid. Two
characteristic canvases, “Marbella,
Spain,” and “Old Buildings, Sospel,” go
to the N. S. Wales Gallery. This critic
liked best “The Spanish Coast,” a semi-
panoramic scene in which the Mediter-
ranean blue is given its full splendor, and
some early-morning glimpses of Paris, in
which a very subtle charm is captured.
But the pictures are all worth while.
*2* *2* *1- *2*
Harold Byrne, the other Ashton pupil
who was showing last week, is just a
youngster. At Rubery Bennett’s gallery
he exhibits pencil-drawings, etchings,
monotypes and water-color sketches.
The water-colors are reminiscent of
Blamire Young, though by no means imi-
tative of that artist, and are very grace-
ful. But the artist’s strength—at present,
anyhow—is in line. His nude drawings,
portraits and architectural limnings show
firmness and feeling, two qualities often
divorced. Byrne is a ship that has not
yet found itself. His etchings show most
experience, and it is possibly in this de-
partment that he will do his best work.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
Gm
■ W
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Half fhe Trip is Dining
Enjoy Every Meal***
fds
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Estate of Ellen Looney, Deceased.
WILL JOHN LOONEY, son of Patrick Looney
and Mary Sheehan, who was born at Carrague.
County Cork, Ireland, or anyone knowing of
his whereabouts, kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, quoting name of above estate?
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Murray Anderson’s passing from
the city that had known her as Gov-
ernor’s lady was unobtrusive in the ex-
treme. On Tuesday evening, accompanied
by her cousin, Rosemary de Sausmarez,
she left by the Melbourne express. In
Melbourne she spent the hours between
trains with Lord and Lady Huntingfield
at Government House, and had another
few hours’ rest at Government House,
Adelaide. In the little group at Sydney
station to see her off were Captain Robin-
son, who was the late Governor’s secre-
tary, stationmaster Swadling, and the
Archbishop of Sydney, Dr. Mowll. Dur-
ing the day Lieutenant-Governor Philip
Street and his wife and the Premier and
Mrs. Stevens were among her last callers.
Captain Robinson sailed for England in
the Orontes.
The unveiling of the Eleanor Mac-
Kinnon portrait at U.A.P. headquarters
marked an epoch. Hers is the first
woman’s picture to ornament the walls.
Pictures of men who have been busy in
the party hang about the various rooms,
the weight of their brains possibly to be.
assessed by the heaviness of the frames.
On Wednesday expensive chariots swung
into Angel-place and deposited almost
all the local bigwigs on the door-
step of National House. Soon the long
reception-room was crowded. Miss
Sarah Hynes, who had evolved and with
a committee carried out the idea, was an
efficient marshal before she turned
chairwoman. Her voice as clear and
fresh as the pink flower in her hat, Miss
Hynes introduced Mrs. Stevens, who un-
veiled the portrait.
The Storey, Hughes and Marr ladies
all sat together ; Mrs. Stanley Vaughan
arrived very smart in a cream cloth cos-
tume. Dame Mary Cook spoke of the
quality of Mrs. MacKinnon from the
fulness of her heart and the depths of a
black fox fur. The Thomas Hughes
lady, who was one of the speakers (so
were the Storey lady and daughter
Ruby), had earlier exchanged reminis-
cences with H. W. Horsfield over old
Town Hall days. Mrs. Pugh, Mrs. Ard-
ing Thomas, Mrs. M. Kennard and Mrs.
H. M. Plummer were others to speak of
the worth of one whose name can never
be forgotten, linked as it is with the
Junior Red Cross movement, now estab-
lished in 51 countries.
The opening of Will Ashton’s show
was one of the week’s bright spots, and
David Jones’s now harbors the beauty
on sea and land captured by the artist
in his recent tours. Here are lovely bits
of sunny Spain before the terror had cast
its shadow. Professor B. J. Waterhouse
made the opening speech, and a follow-
up by Julian Ashton put a mellow glow
into the afternoon. Reminiscing, the
old master looked across and saw
Charles Lloyd Jones. “There,” he said,
“is another of my pupils who was an
artist before he became a draper, and
will be an artist again.” The boss of
David Jones’s laughed. After all, who
minds being told he is an artist?
Mrs. Will Ashton wore a blue silk
frock flecked with yellow. Yellow were
her gloves and yellow and brown her
handbag. Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones pro-
vided something new in millinery. Her
hat was of white felt, its brim turned
sharply up in front, a bow of felt
right in the middle of the uplift. Her
frock was of dusty pink, and there was a
pink tinge in her hose. The wife of
musician George Ellwood (not so long
ago of Maoriland) was frocked in misty
blue. Trix Tange, just about to start
out on an all-round-Australia tour
for the A.8.C., aired a jaunty tunic suit
in black and white, the coat very flared.
One of the smartest was Mrs. Monty
Grover, of Melbourne. The skirt of her
suit was of black satin, the fitting coat of
white cloque. The two sisters of Will
Ashton’s friend Charles Bryant were
there, and poetess Mary Gilmore. Wal
Taylor, Datillo Rubbo and Hanke
dropped in. So did Howard Carr, look-
ing tropical in Assam silk and a panama
hat.
The Brigadier Hardies’ party at the
Queen’s Club was the military social
event of the week. Roses and all the
flowers in season gave an air of seduc-
tion to rooms usually clothed in aloof
dignity. Mrs. Hardie’s frock was of
navy sheer, patterned in white. Her
white hat was banded in navy. Profes-
sors and Consuls were at this party, as
well as soldiers. Mayoress Parkes
brought her Deputy-Mayor husband. A
brown taffeta coat was a smart finish to
her brightly-patterned crepes. The
Charles Rosenthals and the Harry Budge
couple were there. Hugh Poynter and
his lady brought daughter Jocelyn. The
Poynter lady pinned lily-of-the-valley in
her green ensemble.
In a voice as young as the crescent
moon that looked down on the Conser-
vatorium, Constance Burt sang groups
of German, Italian, French and Eng-
lish works last Thursday night. The
singer’s pale-gold head, fair complexion
and camellia-pink taffeta frocjf were in
complete harmony. Accompanist Gladys
Hart’s old-gold tissue was a longish
affair. Frank Hutchens divided the
songs with piano brilliance. This is the
first recital since Miss Burt’s return from
study in Europe, The hall was dressed
with groups of girl students decorative
in chiffons. Two or three bright Spanish
shawls were worn as wraps.
Commander Charles Gifford, who
came. to Australia as aide to Governor
Game and remained to organise the rais-
ing of funds for the Royal Prince Alfred,
winged away from Australia last week. He
flew to Brisbane, and there caught the air-
liner for England. The night before he
departed his friends clustered round and
sped him with a cocktail and supper
party in Elizabeth Bay House. The
night’s hostesses were Grace Gibson,
Nuttie Mackellar and Margaret Allen.
Grace wore pink rosebuds in her hair.
Her frock was of black lace. George
Rayner was there with Mrs. Rayner, who
is “Giff’s” mother. Margaret Allen’s
mist-blue chiffons were a pretty bit of
color. Dr. Bertie Schlink, of Prince
Alfred’s, was among the throng; so was
Royce Shannon.
One of the most alive shows that Syd-
ney has seen is the Students’ Art Service
Exhibition in the Education Department.
Behind it is a movement by students from
all the art schools in Sydney to encour-
age an appreciation of art. The walls of
the outer room are hung with colored
drawings by students of from four to
fourteen. These are no mere copying of
a set model. Following the new idea,
the kiddies are given colored chalks and
paper and invited to make a picture. So,
with nothing to hamper their imagina-
tion, they have shown a very small girl
making a very monster of a bed, cows
and horses, and paddocks along which
horses and dogs race madly. A small
girl in Chicago drew a picture of a city
playground with children on swings.
One Sydney enthusiast shows the Harbor
Bridge, under which the water churns
wildly and boat traffic plies busily. The
collection in this room is artist Myra
Cocks’s idea, and includes examples of
child imaginings from America and most
of Europe. Myra’s dream is to see a
special art teacher in every school,
smaller classes and well-equipped studios.
“Catch ’em young” is her motto.
On Friday, Harry McDonald, a young
enthusiast from Sydney Tech., was help-
ing sort out and hang the hundreds of
sketches in the exhibition. As many have
no frames great numbers can be shown.
In the longer gallery, older students from
various art schools display figure studies,
still-lifes, landscape and seascape.
In a special folder are the sketches by
abos. and school-children brought by
Arthur Murch from Central Australia.
The artist gave materials to some chil-
dren at a mission school miles from Alice
Springs, and asked them to draw a pic-
ture. Of course, they drew emus, camels,
kangaroos and horses. In every picture
there is movement; the ’roo is hopping
along, a horse is putting up a spirited
race with an aeroplane overhead, camels
are stepping, head in air. All the animals
have excessively long legs and small heads.
Arthur Murch says that is perspective
the children who drew them are very
small. Abos. who had never handled
pencil before made sketches like rock
carvings. The show will remain open till
December 5.
Dorothy Helmrich left last Monday
for Melbourne to sing in the broadcast of
Roy Agnew’s “Breaking of the Drought.”
The poem is by Harley Matthews. Before
she went Dorothy was, with a group of
Consular ladies, a guest of honor at the
Queen Victoria Club. This music party
was held at the Australia, and Dorothy
was very smart in two tones of caramel.
Mrs. R. Asmis, wife of Germany’s
Consul-General, also allied two tones of
brown in her ensemble. The United
States was there in the. person of Mrs.
Pierrepont Moffat; Mrs. Host ably repre-
sented Denmark, and Mrs. Noskowski
Poland. Mrs. Norman McLeod, whose
husband is Consul for Latvia, was one of
the smart. Mrs. Percy White, Mrs. H. N.
Lethbridge and Mrs. Charles Parsons
were the hostesses.
Mrs. G. A. Scott, wife of the Captain
Superintendent of Garden Island, threw
open Tresco, her Elizabeth Bay home,
last week for the benefit of the Mater
Hospital, the Navy League and the
Sailors’ Home. Dining-room and draw-
ing-room of the old home were filled
with bridge-players, and profits will be
added to the funds derived from the
Strathaird party, to be held on December
9 for the three causes. Dorothy Welding
photo.
The wife of the new Vice-Consul for
China is a clever lady who studied law
at the Hankow Law School. Her know-
ledge she puts to use in social-service
work. Mrs. Wen Yen arrived by the
Nellore, and was an attractive figure in
her frock of pale-blue silk embroidered
in white. This was cut in the modern
Chinese way, straight and toe-length, its
collar upstanding. Ming Young and
Tu Tu, her two small sons, have been
left behind in China with their grand-
mother.
As a result of the fifth Radio Industry
Ball, held in September, the. committee
has £94 11s. Id. to distribute. Annually
£6O goes to the Children’s Hospital to
maintain the radio industry cot. The
remainder will be divided between the
Smith Family and the Legacy Club.
Cheques will be handed over at the
annual radio golf day to be held at the
Oatlands club on December 9.
A young man from Hammond s hotel
who had been engaged by Lady Murray
Anderson as houseboy, and who had
pleased her by his diligence, will not be
out of employment. With characteristic
kindness Lady Anderson cabled to the
Governor-General of Maoriland and
secured for him a place in M.L. s Gov-
ernment House.
During the week-end Sydney lost two
of its most popular and most attractive
young married women. One, the wife
of W. J. Curtis, K.C., was found
lying dead in their Collaroy home.
Before her marriage she was Lalla
Moss, pretty daughter of a hand-
some mother. The other death that
has caused widespread sympathy is that
of Mrs. Jimmie Bancks, wife of the
artist who created Ginger Meggs. Her
passing brought double bereavement to
her husband, for she died in childbirth.
Before her marriage Mrs. Bancks was
Jessie Tait, daughter of the E. J. Taits,
of the J. C. Williamson firm. Mrs.
Bancks had been an active worker for
charity. The free kindergartens had her
special interest.
On Saturday the teeth of the southerly
bit through topcoat and furs, but 36,000
went out to the Cricket Ground, and re-
mained till after Bradman had his in-
nings. Tweed-coated, furred and some-
times rugged, the girls in the stands were
all right, except for the hat problem.
After being blown and battered, many
surrendered and took them off. On Fri-
day the Marchioness of Hartington, just
back from Maoriland in the Awatea, was
an onlooker. Lord and Lady Hartington
stayed at Admiralty House while in Syd-
ney. Now they are in Canberra staying
with the G.-Gs. Lord Gowrie is Lady
Hartington’s cousin.
Admiral Lane-Poole will open Frank
Norton’s exhibition of diploma work in
the Macleod Gallery on Thursday after-
noon. Frank is a Maorilander by birth,
but at three years of age adopted Aus-
tralia. His father and grandfather were
of the Royal Navy, and the expression
Frank’s art takes is ships. In this show
hangs a painting of H.M.A.S. Brisbane
painted on commission for the wardroom
officers. The young artist travelled as a
guest to Perth in the warship when it
was making its last voyage. He painted
the. Orion for the Orient Co., and this
picture has been lent for the show. A
smaller painting of the same liner on
the walls usually hangs in the Orion pic-
ture theatre in Campsie. Fred Leist has
written the foreword to the. catalogue.
T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathe-
dral” had its first Sydney presentation
last week. It was produced in St. James's
Hall by Grace Stafford and Diana Reeve.
The latter took part in the original pro-
duction in Canterbury Cathedral, so
.Sydney audiences had the benefit ot her
experience. Desmond O’Connor played
the part of the murdered a Becket.
The merry wives and maids of War-
wick'were those who backed Falstaff.
Even Saturday’s icy bluster couldn’t wipe
the smile off their faces as they ex-
changed their ten-shilling tote tickets foi
£5. The Farm is a pretty course, but
even it took on a waspish look under the
bitter tirade of the weather. Tweed suits
and small hats were the popular wear,
though the McKelvey lady seemed at
peace with her brimful black leghorn.
Her black flower-patterned frock had its
white collar tied with a bow. Joan
Ranking, from England, was there with
Mrs. Dick Allen. Mrs. Olding’s grey and
black ensemble was worn with a black
hat. Robin Eakin, who had a day out
with mother and father, wore a pleated
navy linen suit and a white hat.
This State’s section of the Aerial Medi-
cal Service is out to gather £5OOO, the
amount necessary to establish a flying-
doctor” base at Broken Hill. The prac-
tice will have an area of half a million
square miles. It will embrace the west
and north-west of N. S. Wales, extend
into South Australian territory and cover
those sections of south-west Queensland
not already served by the famous Cion;
curry base! It was “Flynn of the Inland"
who originally hatched the scheme and
visioned means of ensuring that
throughout an area larger than Europe
no human habitation will be more than
half a day’s ride from the means of call-
ing th° flying doctor or asking and re-
ceiving, by the ingenious pedal trans-
ceivers, emergency medical advice. Now.
N. S. Wales, where’s that cheque-book?


THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
The Macleod
Gallery,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(Near Bridge Street)
G. V. F. Mann (Director)
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art —lat e s t
works by the most promi-
nent of Australian Artists
always on view and for
sale.
Open Daily.
ADMISSION FREE
Special Exhibition of Paintings,
Drawings and Etchings \. r
FRANK NORTON
(Marine Artist)
will be opened by Rear-Admiral
R. H. O. Lane-Poole, C. 8.,
0.8. E., on Thursday,
November 26, at 3 p.m.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1816 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH McDONALD Peti-
tioner
And THOMAS VICTOR McDONALD
Respondent.
TO THOMAS VICTOR McDONALD.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
McDONALD has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the fourth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Sixth day of November, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1400 of 1936.
BETWEEN DOROTHY MILDRED MARS-
DEN Petitioner
And ALLAN KEITH MARSDEN Re-
spondent.
TO ALLAN KEITH MARSDEN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
MILDRED MARSDEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fourth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of November, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Monte Carlo Russian Ballet con-
tinues to draw full houses, with evening
dress the general rule every night. Even
in the gods some are seen in frocks of
after-dinner length; the real difficulty
is hats, for any headwear with even one
wing over standard skullcap size is certain
to be disliked by the people in the row
behind. On Saturday a number of
women dispensed with coats, in spite of
the wintry night; even at the Caulfield
meeting in the afternoon general wear
was furs and the thickest of tweeds. Mrs.
Buller Allen was in the stalls with Mrs.
Williamson. Mrs. Roy Anderson, look-
ing as youthful as her daughter, sat
swathed in gold lame and gardenias. Dr.
and Mrs. J. P. Major were there, she in
a black velvet cloak with five roses in a
cluster on her shoulder. Dr. and Mrs.
John Williams brought their very young
Patricia, one of the lucky children being
given incentive to take an interest in
ballet classes. Mrs. Williams looked dis-
tinctive with her plastic curls and silver
coat. Wendy Tudehope wore black net
and a swathed jewel-green sash. Phyllis
Balfour, in floral chiffon, was accom-
panied by a tall escort. Diana Park-
Smith caused a turn of heads with her
all-white draperies, sari and Grecian
gown cut low at the back and touched
here and there with gold.
There’s a lot to be said for the sherry
party which starts on time and doesn’t
last much longer than an hour. Con-
versation bounces along spontaneously,
and everybody leaves with an appetite
for dinner and a feeling of “What a nice
party!” not “What an endurance test!”
One of the pleasantest was that given
by the E.-S.U. to the new American
Consul and Mrs. F. A. Henry. Deputis-
ing for Walter Leitch, Prof. Osborne
spoke a welcome which was seconded by
Justice Lowe. Among the guests were
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. Murray, to
whom the dais at the E.-S.U. is no strange
territory; they have produced and acted
in several plays staged thereon by the
club. Present also were the A. W. Burton
couple, who are planning to go abroad
once more in March. This time their
route will be by way of a holiday in
M.L., thence in the Rangitiki through the
Panama Canal, their young family being
the chief reason for an all-sea route
rather than one that runs across the
U.S.A. by train. Assistant American
Consul W. S. Signor was there, a very
friendly and personable young man, who,
after much travel, has come to the con-
clusion that the air is the best method,
“but take a lot of books or you’ll be
bored to death.” On the date of the
party his wife, all ready packed up for
her journey to Melbourne, had been
marooned eight days in Los Angeles by
a shipping strike.
The Consular Henry couple have two
married daughters in England. ' Their
third daughter, aged 13, should have no
difficulty with languages when she starts
school in Melbourne. She and her sisters
know some French and German and are
fluent in Spanish, for their parents have
lived in Spanish-speaking countries for
15 years. Their last location was in
Nassau, in the house the John Dyes will
go to. It’s an enormous building with 70
windows, but there are woolly-headed
dusky folk to clean them. Although
she has an eagle on her passport, Mrs.
Henry is by birth an Irishwoman.
There were few formalities about the
party given last week by Madame
Mortill. Guests were received in the
drawing-room; thence they drifted as
the spirit moved them into the ballroom,
upstairs to see the view, and out into the
terraced garden of Tay Creggan, where
little winding paths creep down to the
river. Azaleas and roses bloomed pro-
fusely, and folk with old-fashioned
notions found their hearts warmed by
the starry little faces of sweet Williams.
But' flowers, trees and lawns didn’t re-
ceive all the admiration. Guests who
noticed in the distance what looked like
rhubarb and beds of sweet-corn came
closer to investigate, and Madame Edith
Elischer, who knows a lot about Con-
tinental cookery, was delighted at her
present from William Mortill of a bunch
of very special silver-skin onions. With
Madame Elischer (otherwise Mrs. E. J. L.
Burnett) was her Hungarian sculptor
brother J. W. Elischer, a newcomer to
this country who has been living in
Vienna for many years.
Among those of the guests who dis-
embarked from overseas ships this week
were Miss Grace Carr, general secretary
of the Y.W.C.A., who had been to
Colombo for a Y.W. Conference, and
Mrs. Fred Marsh, whom Melbourne, folk
can’t help thinking of as Madame Marsi.
She and her husband changed their name
when they took out naturalisation papers
earlier in the year. British name and
nationality saved Mrs. Marsh a heap of
trouble on her recent visit to South
America in connection with the Viennese
Boys’ Choir. She has a further engage-
ment to meet the choir in Vienna early
in the new year.
Madame Mortill, receiving her guests
and dispensing tea, which included Rus-
sian poppy-seed cake, wore an ensemble
of black lacquered satin, the skirt quite
plain, the tunic showing a small pattern
of coral-pink deer standing under green
trees.
On Henley night, November 28,
“Within These Walls” is to be produced
by the Dramatists’ Club at the Princess in
aid of the National Theatre movement.
“Alexander Guthrie” is the nom de
plume of the author, who for the present
means to keep his or her (or his and
her, for there is a suspicion of collabora-
tion) identity a secret. It’s a period play,
dressed in bustles, ringlets, gem hats and
waxed whiskers. Bill Clarkson will have
a lot of remaking-up to do, for he plays
the hero in each of four generations.
Three members of one family, Margaret,
John and David Reid, are in the cast,
and Clarice Graham is a Scottish bride,
who arrives in Australia in 1850 with
high ideals about making a success of her
marrage. Riches come to the settlers, so
does a railway, and the sentiment of the
opening scenes turns to satire in the last
act. Margaret Reid’s photograph is by
Ruskin.
Distance was no bar to those who
attended the opening of Pegg Clarke’s
exhibition of camera pictures. The attrac-
tive studio which Miss Clarke shares with
Dora Wilson, and which is reached by
a cobbled pathway through a woody
garden in Glenferrie-road, was taxed to
its maximum capacity on the first even-
ing of the show. Mrs. R. D. Elliott
made her maiden speech in declaring the
exhibition open, and was presented, not
with a bouquet, but with a hand-made
model of a windmill. Mrs. Elliott was
introduced by R. H. Croll (fast qualify-
ing as the champion introducer of art-
show openers) as a “lady who has been
painted by every reputable artist, includ-
ing Mary Cecil Allen,” which remark
no one would have enjoyed more than
Miss Allen herself.
Miss Clarke’s photographic studies
range over vast areas of the world. There
are glimpses of Corsica and Sardinia, a
crumbling old courtyard in a Saracen vil-
lage, tree shadows caught in Fuenter-
rabia, a street in York with York Minster
in the distance. There are several views
of London, and among the photographs
in the pewter-filled nook adjoining the
studio is a charming study of an old
English cottage. Included among aspects
of Australian scenery are gum-trees,
mountain mists and seascapes, delicate
tea-tree filigrees and cleverly executed
close-ups of cherry-blossom and daisies.
Here is Mary Lindsay-Smith, who, as
part of the busiest year of her young life,
lately sat for her final exams, in an arts
course. She is president of the C.M.U.W.
and as such has learnt to make speeches,
impromptu and otherwise. For the Union
House Christmas fete her particular job
is among the sideshows and fairs, which
extras are being worked by a committee
of 180. Miss Lindsay-Smith, whose
photo, is by Dickinson-Monteath, is the
younger daughter of Mrs. L. Lindsay-
Smith. Before coming to Melbourne to
live three years ago she was at school
at Frensham (N.S.W.).
John Longstaff has been invited to
open scores of art shows, but he doesn’t
fancy himself as a speechmaker and had
always sidestepped until he consented to
Mrs. Hugh McCubbin’s request. Never
has Miss Mac Lean’s gallery been so
crowded at any opening. Among mothers
who brought young sons and daughters
to see the portrait show on the first day
was Mrs. H. M. Ogg, whose Allison dis-
covered herself in colored chalks just
inside the door. The P. H. Meldrum
couple were there; so was son Richard
in a charcoal sketch. Dr. and Mrs.
Charles Adey had special interest in the
portrait of their Brian, as had the Alan
Stephensons in David, Mrs. Wilbur Ham
in Eleanor and Dr. A. P. Derham in son
Bill.
Other onlookers noticed were Jessie
Traill and her young relative Peggy Traill,
from Queensland, as fresh as was the
crisp pique bow on her navy dress ; Dr.
Marion Wanliss; Mrs. A. H. McComb,
in grey coat and hat particularly suitable
for a grey-skied day, and Mrs. Douglas
Copland, in black-and-white checks.
Hugh McCubbin is the son of an artist
(Frederick) and brother of an artist
(Louis), and henceforward he’ll be known
as the husband of an artist. The obvious
retaliation is to become an artist himself.
Miss S. J. Williams, M.A., formerly
principal of Sydney Uni.’s Women’s Col-
lege, has been appointed principal of the
similar college at Melb. Uni. She is
at present travelling in Europe, and ex-
pects to arrive in Melbourne early in
February. The question of the name of
the Melb. college is still under discussion.
It is likely that it will be given some dis-
tinctive name instead of being known, as
the Sydney one is, simply as “the
Women’s College.”
At least 1500 people (for that is the
number working directly and indirectly
for the Union House fete) are offering
bribes to their particular josses for good
weather on December 3, 4 and 5, includ-
ing the nights of the Friday and Satur-
day, when pageants of history will take
place out-of-doors. In the case of rain
the Wilson Hall can be used, but an in-
side setting would present difficulties to
those taking part. The tableaux will be
presented on top of the cloisters round
the quadrangle; ladders have been
erected. Stalls will be stocked with all
kinds of things, Christmas gifts and
articles for household, garden or per-
sonal use. Children also will be catered
for with donkey rides, sideshows and the
like.
The American Women’s Auxiliary is
devoting its stall at the fete to selling an
American Cookery Book, in the compil-
ing of which Mrs. E. A. Callanan and
Mrs. Earl Moses have been thinking,
talking and dreaming food for months. In
this book there is not one recipe “listed”
from another cookery book; all recipes
are personal contributions by Americans
living in Australia or in their homeland ;
every recipe is guaranteed tested, and in-
structions are adapted to suit Australian
cooks and kitchens. The book can be
bought in a complete edition priced at
125., or in eight separate pamphlets,
priced at 2s. each, the tempting tides of
which are Luncheon Dishes, Salads and
Dressings, Unusual Vegetable Dishes,
Hot and. Cold Desserts, Meat and Poul-
try, Doughnuts, Waffles and Hot Breads,
Cakes and Cookies and Savories, Pre-
serves and Beverages.
The Basil Murphys made their fare-
wells from Adelaide, not Melbourne, be-
fore sailing abroad in the Empire Star.
Among Mrs. Murphy’s possessions were
a dozen boxes of strawberries consigned
to the ship’s freezing chamber. The
berries, grown in the hill garden adjoin-
ing Pat Hackett’s cottage at Norton’s
Summit, are to figure as a special dish at
the family Christmas dinner —inciden-
tally, the first Yuletide meal the male
Murphy will eat with his newly-acquired
relatives, four of whom are at present in
England.
When Beth Hale, bound for Honolulu,
America and England, sailed on October
10, to farewells and good wishes and
with presents piled high around her, she
little dreamt that her next real present
would be a wedding ring. The charms
of Beth’s blue eyes and dark hair were
recognised by Allan Tomblin, whose
address, though he isn’t of the film world,
is Beverley Hills, Hollywood. The pair
met in Honolulu, entirely owing to delay
caused by the shipping strike. The bride’s
sister, Mrs. John Smith, has had three
cablegrams about the event, the first to
say that a marriage was imminent in
Honolulu, the second to say how happy
the bride and ’groom were and a third
mentioning the date of their arrival in
Los Angeles.


Stuart Crystal of exquisite design,pro-
duced by a master craftsman, cannot
fail to add charm and dignity to your
home. English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House, 204, Clarence St., Sydney.
Stuart
(Irtjstal
3am»
ij f,
PRESS THE FLASK
AND THE POWDER'S
ON THE BRUSH
Here’s a tooth powder which
really cleans your teeth, in a new
packing which is ever so much
easier to use than old-fashioned
tins and tubes. Just press the flask
and the powder is on your brush.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TASMANIA— - The Wonderland
Is Beautifully Illustrated in
The Examiner Annual
Order a Copy from
your Bookseller.
1/6
Australian Representatives:
Gordon & Gotch (Aus.)> Ltd.
<NOCK & KIRBY'S'
Practical
GIFTS
"A D V A N C E"
BICYCLE
Special Roadster
£6/19/6
Built of British Parts ... Reynolds
Tubing . . . Williams Chain Wheel
and Cranks ... Free Wheel . . .
Back Rim Brake . . . Endrick Rims,
plated . . . Twelve Months’ Guar-
anteed Tyres . . . Pump . . . Tools
. . Tool Bag . . . Bell ... and
Mudguards. PA/l 9/6
CASH PRICE to/iT/w
Gent.’s or Boy’s Swiss Pocket
Watch.—Chrome case, luminous
dial, leather strap, guaranteed.
Special
each .. . .
Price,
14/6
4/4 Westminster Chiming Clock.
Chimes every quarter hour,
strikes hours, 6in. cut out dial,
chrome bezel, highly polished
Maple case.
Usually 85/-.
CASH PRICE
59/6
Seagrass Ottoman. — A useful
present both bedroom seat and
tidy—binged upholstered seat ■
28in. x 18in. x 13iin.
Nock & Kirby’s 10/11
Special Price
NOGK &
KIRBY’S
POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 68CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The commodore and members of
Royal Perth Yacht Club invited hordes
of friends to board the Zephyr, cruise
about the river and watch the club’s
opening-day races. Feminine guests were
garbed almost uniformly in linen, with
nautical navy and white as the popular
combination. Mrs. Frank Malloch’s
white linen was touched with navy, and
Mrs. Jimmy Woods reversed the order
by touching navy with white ; Mrs. John
Hargrave (who changed into grey floral
silks for the dance in the evening) allied
sky and navy blues in her snappy scarfed
suit, and a riot of orange spots loomed
large on Mrs. W. Cromellin’s beige
linens. Mrs. Reg Malloch forestalled
her dance frock of diagonal self-striped
cloque with a white linen skirt and
China-blue blouse, and Jean Lang sup-
planted a navy-and-white sports outfit
with flowing pink satin.
Una Bourne and Edwin Eastman kept
their matrimonial date at Perth College
chapel with Archdeacon Huddleston to
tie the knot. The bride’s azure-blue lace
was banded over the shoulders and down
to the hem with ruchings of stiffened
net, the whole generously sprinkled with
forget-me-nots in the same shade as her
misty tulle veil. The bridesmaids, Muriel
Wieck, Gwen Hansen and Ethel Osborn,
fluffed dawn-pink chiffons, afroth at the
hem with foamy frills which sent their
spray high up the front of the skirts. At
the back were winglike capes and the
long ends of matching taffeta sashes.
Another wedding with Perth College
chapel as the setting was that of Jae
Thomas and Bruce Forsyth. The bride’s
pleated parchment silks- were flanked
with long tight-fitting sleeves and topped
by a harmonising picture hat adorned
with flat-pink flowers. Yvonne Flegg
and Maisie Pearson mingled all the hues
of the rainbow in their ’maid frocks of
figured chiffon, which were shaded by
large, pale-pink, beflowered felt hats.
The Kanimbla carried the couple away
for the ’mooning.
The Brearleys, Renee and John, played
leading roles at the double wedding in
St. Mary’s, West Perth. Groom Jim
Sanderson’s ear was on a level with
Renee’s diaphanous tulle veil, which
floated from an upstanding halo, and
John looked down on bride Mary David-
son’s jewelled Juliet cap.
Not a feminine finger stirred the pie
of the Subiaco young folks’ dance in St.
Joseph’s Hall. Young men decked the
dance-room with streamers and balloons,
reared gladioli spikes on the supper-
tables and installed Mrs. McEntee’s soft-
blue satins in the chaperon chair. Hazel
Johnston took the floor in bluerand-
white plaid taffeta, Noreen Mitchell
planted spring flowers in her field of
maize georgette, Tess Callaghan swished
hydrangea-blue taffetas, and a length of
cornflower-blue crepes girt Mary Glynn’s
lissome lines.
With a bumper crop of weddings to
be harvested in the near future hostesses
are. busy feting brides-to-be. Dorothea
Cass arranged a kitchen-tea at her home
in Cottesloe in honor of Enid Light-
foot, who goes into double harness with
John Oaks; Dorothy and Beatrice
Baker set up many bridge tables for
Eileen Brown, who will be, led to the
altar by Aubrey Reay; Dorothy Brod-
ribb occupied the box seat at the Desert
Inn, where a quartet of hostesses wel-
comed the guests, and a horde of girls
bore, gifts to the sundowners’ party given
for Zoe Davidson, who is soon to be-
come Mrs. C. Dyer.
Wedding bells will follow close on
the heels of the. engagement of Mar-
garet, Dr. and Mrs. D. D. Paton’s elder
daughter, and Ross, topmost branch of
the Theodore Ambroses’ many-boughed
tree.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
For the racing at Morphettville, where
the Whitmore Carrs did the honors,
dressing was Wintry. Mrs. Carr’s navy-
tailored suit went with beige-toned fox
furs. Mrs. A. V. Benson chose a grey
and Mrs. A. W. Jolly black ensemble.
Jean Butler donned a navy wool georg-
ette coat over a floral chiffon frock. Mrs.
H. W. D. Stoddart wore a black velvet
tam beret with her black tailored coat.
St. Peter’s Corporation followed the
example of Kensington and Norwood
with a Centenary Mayoral Ball, to which
400 turned out. Supper-room tables were
set with pink and pale-blue flowers, as
was the official table upstairs where the
vice-regal party was entertained. Mayor
and Mayoress Ford received on a dais,
Mrs. Ford gowned in black lace with a
shoulder spray of pink roses. His Ex.
and Lady Dugan had with them their
guests, Lord and Lady Elibank. St. John
Ambulance Brigade, in which Lady Eli-
bank is specially interested, provided a
guard of honor.
Lady Dugan looked charming in a
delphinium-blue silk net, the skirt very
full from the hips, the bodice fitting to
the figure. With it she wore an ermine
short-coat with huge rolled collar. Lady
Elibank chose a pink-and-gold-shot
taffeta, the skirt fully flared. The bodice
had a swathed effect on close-fitting lines
of black net over the taffeta, with a bow of
the silk on the shoulders giving a winged
effect. Adelaide’s Mayoress (Mrs. H.
Dunstan) danced in fuchsia-toned chiffon
with goffered frills on the skirt and
bodice. Mrs. Andrew Young was beauti-
fully gowned in pale blue and silver bro-
cade, with a matching coat of brocade
and pale-blue satin.
Over 100 delegates and guests were
entertained at luncheon at the Apollo
by the S.A. National Council of Jewish
Women as part of its centenary pro-
gramme conference. Dr. Fanny Read-
ing presided. Each woman was given
a shoulder spray, and the Lady Mayoress
was presented with a bouquet of pale-
pink and pale-blue flowers.
A display of decorated tables for
charity has proved very successful. In
half a week more than £5O was taken in
admission money at sixpence a head and
£7O in penny votes for the respective
tables. The floral decorations were re-
newed each day. The judging, by Louis
McCubbin, of the Art Gallery, Mrs. A.
C. Finlayson and Joyce Warren, was
done on the opening day, but the results
are not to be disclosed until the exhibi-
tion is over.
The inter-State women bowlers, 80
strong, were given a civic reception. The
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) wore a
smart beige matelasse ensemble, the vest
bound with black silk braid, topping the
ensemble with a black Breton sailor hat.
Mrs. F. H. Hobbs (president of the S.A.
Women’s Bowls Association) stood with
the mayoral party during the reception.
TASMANIA.
At Elwick many summery frocks had
an outing; navy blue was still first
favorite. Hats varied, some flat, some
highish in the crown. Here and there
was a “petticoat frill” under a plain
colored skirt. Hats burst into floral
bloom on some of the younger wearers,
with good effect. A few country and
northern visitors were glimpsed in the
throng.
The last of the Surgeons’ Congress
entertainments was a garden party at
Glenora, with the R. O. and the D. M.
Shoobridges as joint hosts and hostesses.
Derwent Valley is always lovely at this
time of year, and the day was fine enough
for tea on the lawn. Mrs. D. M. Shoo-
bridge wore a tailored linen suit, and
Mrs. R. O. a blue turnout'. Mollie and
Francis Shoobridge helped do the honors.
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress,
with aldermen and their wives, came
home in great feather after their hos-
pitable reception by the Melbourne City
Fathers. They went to the Cup, met
members of the Russian Ballet, and gen-
erally enjoyed all the fun of the fair in
Cup Week.
Chief Justice Nicholls and his lady
gave a cheery sherry party at their home,
the hostess looking very well in black
and beige. Bright flowers and big fires
made the rooms pretty and comfy. Mrs.
Urquhart and Betty Nicholls helped
their mother to entertain about 40 guests.
The Speck’s V.A.Ds. had their re-
union in the Memorial Church school-
room. Enid Bradley and Mrs. Frank
Purchas sang.
Mrs. Spencer Parsons invited a goodly
crowd to Wincanton, Huon, for a sherry
party in honor of Miss Macarthur
Onslow (Sydney). Lady Clark was
among the guests.
E. H. Webster, one of our oldest
yachtsmen, has produced a book, The
History of Yachting in Tasmania, which
is an admirable addition to the chronicles
of Hobart’s waterfront. " It is interest-
ingly put together and illustrated by
more than 100 photographs.
Though the Rose Show at the City
Hall gave evidence of the gales and hail-
storms, it was quite, a fair exhibition.
Mrs. Alex. McGregor won the cham-
pion bloom blue ribbon. His Ex. and
Lady Clark had Mrs. Stewart Baker
with them. The exhibit of N. S. Wales
wildflowers embedded in blocks of ice
was a novel and beautiful feature.
Mrs. J. E. Thorp and Mrs. D. Ran-
som joined forces and served morning-
tea at the Thorps’ house, Jutland, to
welcome Lilias Lyne home from abroad.
The guest, looking in great fettle, wore
a soft shade of blue, with hat to match.
Mary Harbottle was treated to numer-
ous pre-wedding parties before her
marriage to Lieut.-Commander Emil
Dechaineux. Mrs. Mitchell was hostess
at a very well-run party at Etham. Mrs.
Mitchell was in black with touches of
pink ; Miss Harbottle reversed the order,
wearing pink, with flecks of black in
her stock neck-scarf.


THE CHILDREN'S DELIGHT!
MOVING PICTURES AT HOME
AUTOMATIC. SAFE. SIMPLE
Runt on a Pocket Battery.
This Outfit is ready for immediate use
anywhere, and includes projecting
machine, roll of pictures, battery and
silver screen. So simply constructed and
safe a child may be allowed
to handle the apparatus with- I
out fear or danger ot any in-
jury from burns or electrical
shocks. Full directions sup- _
plied with each outfit. Extra lotteries and lamps are
obtainable anywhere. Price of complete outfit 30/- each,
ist free to any address. Extra rolls of films 2/- each.
assorted subjects suitable for children. Obtainable from
Union Mfg. & Agency Co.. 299 Elizabeth St Melb C.l
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
~?leat -to- muteM-
ZMe B.V.Df33t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the w&ll-known
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
: A
f SHm
•sS
pa*
' ) v V
THE
fO«
mm
BlS\
FOR WOERN TRAVELLE
• The Victoria offers delightful
appointments, service, cuisine. In heart
of city. Moderate tariffs —“Room Only,”
Singles, 4/- to 7/6 per day; Doubles,
8/- to 16/- per
day. Write
Dept. 820 for
free booklet.
VICTORIA
PALACE
201-329 little Collins
St., Melbourne, Cl.
rraffl fTfl
LARGEST NON-LICENSED HOTEL IN AUSTRALIA
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Aileron”: The new co-ordinated air
services make it possible to leave Bris-
bane at 8 a.m., be in Sydney at 11.30,
take off again at 1.30 p.m. and be in
Melbourne at 5 p.m. Perth is not yet
linked by the new fast machines, but
in a matter of months it will be within
48 hours’ scheduled travel from Cairns.
A woman whose father lay ill at Bun-
bury (W.A.) did the journey from
Townsville (Q.) to Bunbury in three days
last week with the help of the principal
air-services.
* * * *
“Zedo”: From Centralia last week
came tales of prospectors who, lured into
the wilderness 250 miles north-west of
Alice Springs by abos. with chunks of
gold, were entertained with a death
dance as a preliminary to turning
them into rations. From the Roper
came another tale of the dying stock-
man who travelled in a car with
a 9ft. bandy-bandy snake, and, also
in the far wilds, a naturalist was re-
ported to have discovered a marsupial
. tiger covered in stripes and sitting on a
branch of a tree snarling. There is evi-
dently still plenty of adventure, of sorts,
to be had in Australia.
* * * *
“C.D.” Vale the ancient pub at
Hendon, Darling Downs, gathering place
of old pioneers. The Leslies, Hodgsons
and other gentry of the Etonian era saw
it start as a shack arid grow. It was the
inevitable yearly gathering place for all
the Dads and Daves in the age of mud
roads, spring-carts and drays. It knew
Jimmy Tyson and Harry Bracker and,
later, Steele Rudd. It fed inspiration to
the workers when the railway was being
put through. The Neylans, who opened
it and who were father and mother to
the surrounding district, have long gone
and with them the trade and the license,
carried away on the tide of motor-cars.
So the owner has pulled the thick cedar
slabs apart, and the building is no more.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The heat-wave has made
Brisbane inhabitants get into all sorts of
strange costumes. In like weather in
Asia the local white reaches for a topi
and about 15s. worth of shirt and shorts,
yells for somebody to stick a wet palm
screen along the verandah, has his
thermos filled with iced coffee, gets up
at break of dawn and works till the sun
is high, and devotes the rest of his day to
sleep and conversation. Here hours re-
main as in winter, laborers work through
the hottest part of the day and, while a
few turn out in helmets and silk, most
stick religiously to blue serge and hot
worsted. It is about time somebody in-
vented an Australian national costume
for the North. My vote, from experience,
would be for a pair of light silk pyjamas
worn over cellular underwear Shorts
are comfortable for wear in slitter, but
in a real seaside Queensland sun they
may produce shins like raw beef. The
Bengali can teach us a lot in these things.
His Roman-toga garb is as cool and com-
fortable as anything I have sampled.
* % % *
“Flying Fox”: It seems that the Provi-
dence that looks after flying doctors
is working overtime in the North. First
it forced the civil aviation authorities—
per medium of an epidemic— to license
Dr. Fenton’s machine for flights to
Bathurst Island: the authorities had pre-
viously decided not to issue a certificate
or let the machine be repaired. The
machine crashed. (The Civil Aviation
Department crashed in the High Court
about the same time.) An indignant
Darwin community promptly put its
hands into its moleskins and raised £7OO
to buy a new machine. So, when Can-
berra decided, under pressure of public
outcry, to buy a machine and make it
available to the doctor (subject to Gov-
ernmental regulations), Canberra found
itself a bit late in the field. The flight
on which the doctor crashed was made
to succor suffering blacks who are the
wards of the country. A free gift of a
new machine would have come grace-
fully ; there is no hesitation in spending
thousands on searches for those who go
adventuring quite off their own bat.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Townsville’s new radio station
should produce a great increase in
licenses. Reception in parts of the North,
especially in the rainy season, is far from
good. Also, the new station should give
Australia a much better chance of ad-
vertising itself in Asia. The only pity
is that, instead of a moderately-powered
plant, a powerful and modern short-waver
was not set up—one that would have
made the popular Hong Kong, Batavia
and JOAK (Japan) stations take second
places.
“There, Ma! Thai ought to settle ’em.”
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
There, was great interest in the Satur-
day-morning wedding at St. Thomas’s,
Toowong, of George Cryle, of Palings,
and Mary Dodd, daughter of the A. C.
Dodds and granddaughter of the late
Robert Gray, one-time Queensland Com-
missioner for Railways.
Every second year the Girls’ Friendly
Society gives a display of work, and
Mrs. Henry Robertson opened this year’s
show in St. Luke’s Hall. The funds are
to go to a girls’ hostel. Mrs. A. E.
Moore did the official business on the
second day. Judging by the. samples of
cookery, any young man who selects a
bride from the G.F.S. won’t spend his
time mourning the pies that mother used
to make. Fancy work, pen-and-ink
sketches and water-colors, some ex-
quisite pottery and two delightful
» examples of old patchwork quilt were
shown,
Checha Eipe, who has been doing the
rounds of Y.W.C.A, branches, gave a
talk on India on her last day in Bris-
bane. The visitor was a guest of the
World Fellowship committee at after-
noon-tea, Mrs. C. McGilvray doing the
honors.
America’s new Consul, J. P. Rag-
land, and his wife were welcomed to
Brisbane with a cocktail party at the
Thomas Clevelands’ home, Ascot. Host
and hostess are Americans, and the cock-
tails were it. Mrs. Cleveland looked de-
lightful in mist blue, with a petunia sash,
and Mrs. Ragland was demure in brown,
scattered with autumn-tinted chrysan-
themums. Mrs. George Clark, from
Dubbo (N.S.W.), was also a guest of
h° nor *
The Twelfth Night players put on
“Petticoat Influence,” with Rhoda Fel-
gate as producer. Babette Ferguson and
Mrs. Roy Bulcock shared the feminine
honors; Stan Hilderbrandt and Alan
Pride were the best of the men. It was
a good show all round.
Another good show was the W.E.A.
players’ “The Black Eye,” capital
comedy well acted throughout. Brisbane
seems to be taking its amateur stage
. seriously these days, and there certainly
is plenty of talent available.
The Student Theatre staged the Rus-
sian comedy “Squaring the Circle” at the
Blind Hall. Marjorie Bulcock, who
started off with the society as a producer,
played lead—Ludmilla, who provides
humor. The part suited petite Marjorie
like a glove. Eva Julius was the pro-
ducer, and most of the cast were ’Varsity
people.
Mrs. Percy Ross, who has been on a
long visit to England, was guest at an
afternoon-tea given at Parliament House
by Mrs. H. Bruce, wife of the. Minister
for Works. Mrs. Ross is a keen worker
for the Playgrounds’ Association, and
the committee of the organisation and
representatives from various play-
grounds went along to welcome her
home.
Pink and blue flowers in lounge and
dining-room were chosen by Peggy
Wishart, who celebrated her twenty-first
birthday with a cocktail party at the
home of her parents, the R. L. Wisharts,
Hamilton. Peggy wore dusky pink and
mother was in blue, matching the
decorations.
Heather Ash win gave a green tea for
Sally Gregory, one of the our brides-to-
be, at her home at New Farm. The guest
wore green-checked silk crepe, and
hostess was in Marina green.
The weather has been so sultry that,
keen golfers as all the guests are, there
was a sigh of relief when Mrs. K. T.
Kennedy and Mrs. J. C. Coakes decided
to entertain their girl friends of the
links at afternoon-tea at' Finney’s, under
the punkahs. Rose-colored carnations
and gerberas set in tulle just the color of
sea water made the table attractive,
Town and Country Women’s Club
members find time to amuse themselves
well while doing useful work. Their
latest stunt was a “back-to-childhood”
party. The spectacle of respectable
matrons in pinafores and pigtails—only
a few were brave enough for this —
started the show off in highly hilarious
mood. Mrs. Harry Cameron, president,
was formal and correct in grey, pink and
black-toned floral chiffon. "The club-
rooms were bowered in flowers, and
large colorful butterflies, the sort that
might be expected to flutter about Ely-
sian fields, swung from the ceiling,
The Comtesse Christine de Hemptinne,
who has been attending the Catholic
Women’s congress in Adelaide, will
attend two parties in her nonor in Bris-
bane ; they have been arranged by the
C.D.A. The Comtesse is president of the
International Junior Catholic Women’s
League.
Jack Radcliffe, an early Queensland
Rhodes scholar, is returning to Oxford
to take a special course. Mrs. Radcliffe
goes with him, and Mrs. Miles Fletcher
gave a farewell tea in her honor. Mrs.
J. D. Land hostessed another party at
the Canberra.
Nancy Rennick leaves for England
early in 1937 to wed her sub-lieutenant,
R. H. Furlong. Pat Handley, in black-
and-gold striped lame, hostessed one of
the round of teas in honor of the pretty
bride-elect, who was an outstanding
Repertory player. Nancy matched her
eyes with blue georgette frock.


THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
JN.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
.Milliard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen .Sts., Brisbane.
• •
rz\\
\J
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/—, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/—, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; OA7, 7/6 ; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
3 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
1936 A.V.C.
PJSNTAORID FOUR.
£6/5/-.
Amplion
qenemotor
THE STANDARD
~B M ELIMINATOR
m
MODEL 180 GENEMOTOR.
INPUT: OUTPUT:
Cv. 2.2anips. 180 v. 30ma.
PRICE, £6/10/-.
Also available for public address ampli-
fiers, transmitters, etc., with outputs
ranging up to 500 volts 150 ma.
MODEL XI FILTER.
For use with Model 180 Genemotor.
PRICE, 30/-.
Write for Bulletin No. 42.
AMPLION (A/SIA), Limited
66 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
THE HOME WORKSHOP
INCORPORATING
RADIO NEWS
PLASTICS.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The moulding of plastics had its start
with the introduction of hard rubber, or
vulcanite, in the middle of the nine-
teenth century. Since the advent of
bakelite and other synthetic resins, a vast
change has taken place, and now there
is hardly an article that cannot either be
wholly or partly made of some plastic
material Whether for screw bottle-top,
fountain-pen, drawer handle or even
vest button, modem plastics are cheaper
and more efficient than anything else.
Drinking and eating utensils, ashtrays,
tableware, soap trays—all can be had
in attractive colored designs. More-
over, the plastic materials are inexpen-
sive.
Color has recently been worked into
plastics as never before. In U.S.A. nor-
mally expensive toilet articles and the
like are now hand- or machine-carved
from these materials. This work is
finding great favor as a hobby. Such
things as carved ornaments for femi-
nine wear, cigarette-boxes, book-ends,
finger rings and hundreds of other
articles are keeping people’s hands busy.
If such things are carved from a good
type of plastic material, they will last
for ages, and without discoloring or
shrinking. They are also waterproof.
The material used for such work is
somewhat different from the familiar
“moulded bakelite” product', which does
not lend itself readily to carving, though
it is easily workable by filing and drill-
ing. Such publications as “Popular
Science Monthly” have featured a pro-
duct called Catalin extensively, and sup-
plies are now available in Australia. It
is obtainable in sheets, bars, tubes and
castings of all colors. Particularly in-
teresting is the transparent bar kind. Held
up to the light, it is like a glass bar.
Placed in the lathe, it can be machined,
and cuts as easily as soft metal. It is
now being used for windows in commer-
cial aeroplanes.
Catalin has a direct appeal for those
who like to make up ornaments and
useful things for the home. The color
scheme can be chosen to suit individual
tastes. Further, Catalin possesses very
good R.F. insulation qualities, and is
therefore excellent for many purposes in
radio. It is a plastic synthetic casein
compound.
D.B.K.
Tool Sharpening.
The small high-speed emery grinder
and buffer, possibly driven by a frac-
tional horsepower motor, with which
many a home workshop is fitted has a
thousand and one uses, but when it
comes to grinding the 1 edges of wood-
working and even metal-turning tools it
needs to be used carefully to avoid burn-
ing. Even if steel is frequently dipped
in water, the temper may be drawn by
too hard a grinding.
For the worker who likes to treat
tools with the respect they deserve, a
grinder such as the one illustrated is
well worth while. It can be driven by
hand or power, and revolves at com-
paratively low speed. Machines of this
type can be obtained in Sydney front
Anthony Horderns’. MacPherson’s Pty.,
Ltd., Nock and Kirby or Scruttons, and
from leading hardware firms in other
Australian cities. The griding stone is
of the wet type, and runs continuously
in a water trough.
Oiling Clocks.
A simple and positive method of oil-
ing the mechanism of a clock difficult to
get at is to put a small amount of light
machine oil into an atomiser and spray
into the clock through any convenient
opening. All the works, including the
mainspring, will be well lubricated, the
fine oil spray penetrating into all crevices.
This is also the best method of oiling
the works of a heavy clock if they are
not easily removed.
Marking Steel Tools.
In a workshop where tools may be
handled by many people it is often
desirable to mark them with initials or
some other form of identification. The
simplest tool-marking fluid can be made
by dissolving 12 grammes of copper sul-
phate crystals and 10 grammes of salt in
40cc. of water, or approximately a tea-
spoonful of each of the chemicals in
2oz. of water. Apply to the metal
with a sharpened stick, a pointed brush
or a fine quill.
Metallic Finish on Wood.
Wood or other material can be given
a beautiful metallic finish by the follow-
ing method. Give the surface two coats
of high-gloss white enamel, let these dry,
then go over lightly with fine sandpaper.
Let the third (last) coat stand until just
barely past the “tacky” stage. Then,
with a pad made of cotton, flannel or
velvet, dust and rub into the enamel a
coating of fine lining aluminium bronze
(a fine grade of ordinary aluminium
bronze). Such treatment of wood sur-
faces has obvious advantages for those
amateur radio workers who use ply-
wood panels for rack-and-panel assem-
blies, especially where a job is to be
prepared for exhibition.
Model Railway Accessory.
The automatic warning bell illustrated
is a “Lionel” model railway accessory
constructed so that bells ring when a
train approaches a crossing. The cata-
logue number is 69N, and the accessory
includes a section of tracking with lock
and directions.
* * -!-
Many readers are inquiring for the
address of the agent for “Lionel” model
railway systems. The Australasian dis-
tributor is Major P. ). Manley, managing
director, Amplion (A’sia), Ltd., 66 Clar-
ence-street, Sydney.
Removing Solder from Nickel.
Solder may be removed from polished
nickel by immersing in strong muriatic
acid for 15 to 20 minutes, the nickel sur-
face being subsequently rebuffed if re-
quired. Alternatively the nickel may be
made the anode in a solution of caustic
soda (4oz. per gallon), used at six to
seven volts and 180 deg. F. for one to
two hours.
Glass-grinding with Emery Stone.
Ground glass for a camera or other
purposes can be easily made by rubbing
the glass with emery powder, applied on
a damp rag. Emery cloth, or even a
carborundum stone, may also be used.
The coarser the abrasive material the
whiter the glass will be. Light bulbs and
bottles may be frosted this way.
Hong Kong Station Frequencies.
“D.G.M.” (Mt. Isa, Q.): “P.R.W.’s”
reference to Hong Kong on the 19-metre
band (B. 28/10/’36) reminded me that I
had not seen any mention in the radio
press of the announcement recently made
from Hong Kong regarding the new
transmitter there. On 26/9/’36 I was
listening to the station on the 31-metre
band when it was announced that a new
transmitter was being put into opera-
tion with the following callsigns and
frequencies: ZBW2, 6.09mc. ; ZBW3,
6.525mc. ; ZBW4, 15.19mc.; ZBWS,
17.775mc. It was further announced
that this transmitter would operate addi-
tionally to ZBW on 8.75mc., and the
other station on the medium-wave broad-
cast band. Receiver used here is the
Ideal Amateur Superhet by “D.8.K.” (B.
15 and 22/4/’36), and I find it as good
as many commercially-built sets. 1 have
a resistance coupled 42 feeding an
Amplion LI speaker arranged to plug in
the ’phone socket.
What’s What in Radio.
Number of radio licenses issued by
the P.M.G.’s Department was 872,282
at the end of October, 1936. Experi-
mental licenses now number 1615.
* * * *
It had been anticipated at an early stage
that television signals from the B.B.C.
station at the Alexandra Palace, London,
would provide satisfactory reception to
owners of television receivers within a
radius of approximately 25 miles from
the transmitting aerials. During recent
tests, however, signals were received as
far distant as Birmingham, Nottingham,
Bournemouth and Felixstowe. While it
is too early to say definitely whether
such reception is freakish, or whether it
may become regular, it is felt that the
original estimate of 25 miles was con-
servative.
* * * *
Regular public transmissions of tele-
vision from Alexandra Palace, London,
are now in full swing, and there
appears to be no lack of demand for tele-
vision receivers. At Radiolympia, one
manufacturer booked orders for over
100 instruments during the first five days.
Good, bad or indifferent, it can be taken
for granted that the public will at least
take a squint at radio’s infant brother.
All Round the Dial.
One of the most popular broadcasters
in the Empire programmes is once again
to tell overseas listeners what is happen-
ing “Under Big Ben.” Howard Marshall,
well-known both as broadcaster and
sports writer, was too occupied reporting
cricket in 1935 to undertake broadcasting
engagements. Recently, however, he re-
turned to the mike. His commentaries
on sporting events have clearly revealed
his expert knowledge of games; at
Oxford he was conspicuous as an athlete
and won his blue for Rugby. Later he
captained the Harlequins and Surrey at
the same game. At one time he was a
member of the staff of the 8.8. C., but
resigned to go back to Fleet-street.


RADIO-
at wholesale prices.
VALVES—Battery valves 2—volt 232
S.G 5/-.
8406, 8005, C 603 power. 5/- 201 A. .4/6.
All 100% tested on “Palec” tester.
AERO DlAES—Radiokes No. 7/14..3/6.
MICA condensers “Impex” .01 1/-.
CRYSTALS—Mighty Atom lOd.
LEARN MORSE—Complete key, buzzer,
battery and Morse chart 4/-.
KEYS only 15/-, 19/6, 25/- each.
HEADPHONES—IOOO ohms light-
weight 7/6.
Price list of parts posted on request.
BATTERY StJPERHET.—Six stage
4-valve, complete in floor cabinet,
Amplion speaker, latest valves,
100 amp. battery, 3 H.D. Batteries.
Aerial and Earth £l3/2/6.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST„ COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. 'Phone: FX5494.
SW
1
m
f
ssss
M
il
SSsS
mm
<+:<
m
m
m
S4S
§W|n.«
SM
1
BSSK
{:«;.•
ms
mmmmm
ms
mm
RADIO
DEALER
which type of set
HE'D choose
THE Ever-Ready Co. (Aust.) Ltd. is
rapidly completing a new £50,000 fac-
tory at Rosebery, Sydney.
This is their bet, that the man on the land
will not be satisfied with anything less than
a genuine B-Battery operated Radio Re-
ceiver.
Hundreds of Radio Dealers throughout
the country are backing this bet with one
of their own. They are recommending B-
Battery equipped sets to their customers.
They know—as we do—that only B-Bat-
tery models can offer the smoothness,
volume and range that the farmer must
have if he is to obtain the fullest measure
of enjoyment from his radio. They know,
too, that B-Batteries are 100% trouble-free
and offer by far the best value in the
long run.
Place your money on the favourite instead
of an untried newcomer. Buy a genuine
B-Battery operated set.
An advertisement issued by The Ever-Ready
Co. (Aust.) Ltd. in the interests of
better “ out-back ” radio.
EX 11
EVERY SET IS A BETTER C\/FR DfAIW RADW
SET POWERED WITH fir■£Kr AUY BATTERIES
BUSHFIRES AND RADIO.
The Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) bush-
tires prompted the president of a
shire council to suggest the organisation
“ ~, , * u--
ot a mobile bushfire brigade, s si
by the Government and the insurance
cos. The suggestion also includes, among
other things, the provision of telephone
communication between special points,
But what of the telephone lines when
posts are burnt through and wires
grounded, as occurred at many points
during the recent blaze?
In the past three years radio amateurs
have demonstrated that the Blue Moun-
tains district is ideal for ultra-short-wave
working. The succession of mountain
peaks affords ready u.-s.-w. communica-
tion by the simplest of transceivers over
quite a number of miles’ range. Such
equipment is far less costly than tele-
J? h °P e communications, and has the
further advantage that fire danger to it is
«//; it can be picked up and moved
a b ou t a t short notice. The cost of a
useful transmitter-receiver is £l5 at the
most; amateurs can build them for much
less.
If ever an opportunity existed for the
sensible employment of ultra-short-wave
radio, it is to be found in this Blue
Mountains district. Once such equip-
ment is made and demonstrated, no
technical knowledge is needed to operate
it. In every way it commends itself as a
communications aid for fire-prevention in
such districts.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“Ellem”: From a thriller called The
Ten Green Brothers: “Once I looked up
towards the thin wire which I had noticed
ran between the mizzenmast and the
stumpy stern mast. And now I saw blue
flashes running along it, and quick
trickles of light swooping downward
towards a point above the companion-
way. One of the passengers was receiv-
ing or sending a wireless message!” One
can scarcely credit that a novelist could
be so ignorant in these times.
* * * *
“Sach”: During the Great War a
German navy station was sending out
telegraphic signals in code, and to reduce
chances of detection adopted a very fast
system of sending, it being impossible
for any outsider to read the signals as
received. British authorities countered
this by making gramophone records of
the signals, which could be read after-
wards at a very much slower speed. It
was an Australian, attached to Jervis
Bay Naval College, who made the trans-
lation of these messages possible. Dr.
Wheatley decoded the cipher from a
code book captured on the German
freighter Hobart.
“D.8.K.”: An American amateur,
Chas. Apgar, in 1917 obtained conclusive
evidence against the German-owned Say-
ville station in U.S.A. by making records
of suspected signals. .Deciphered, the
signals proved to be instructions to Ger-
man submarines operating in the
Atlantic. The U.S.A. Government was
not slow in seizing the station, and
Apgar’s name went down to history as
an example of a radio amateur’s service
to his country.
.** * *
“P.R.W.”: Here is a curious experi-
ence with an aerial—two half-waves in
phase. Each morning, shortly after sun-
rise, reception was spoilt by a spraying
sound which was not in evidence, how-
ever, when I returned home in the even-
ing. My first thought was that the inter-
ference was caused by a neighbor’s
vacuum cleaner, or something of that
sort. Then I found that, when I used
another aerial in much the same loca-
tion, the interference ceased at once. My
next discovery was that the spraying
sound was heard only when one parti-
cular arm of the two half-waves was
employed. An external survey showed
that, while one half of the top was quite
clear from all physical objects, the othef
half ran over a tiled roof at a height of
from 2ft. to 7ft., the vertical portion of
the aerial coming within a few inches
of the guttering. That suggested that
proximity to the guttering might be the
cause. A rubber shield was put up, but
the interference was not abated. Next
morning I tackled the problem anew.
The spraying sound was first perceptible
at 7 a.m., and by 8 a.m. it had increased
considerably in strength. Looking up at
the aerial, the only fresh thing I ob-
served was that for 3ft. or 4ft. along the
top there was a dark band caused by the
shadow of a chimney. Thinking that in-
equality of temperature might possibly
account for the. interference, I waited till
8.45 a.m., when the shadow had gone off.
On returning to the receiver I found
that the spraying sound had also dis-
appeared.
Amateur-radio Chatter.
Having completed the transmitter side
of his new 56mc. station the writer has
been trying out an advanced type of
superhet, using 6C6 oscillator, 6C6 de-
tector, 6D6 R.F., two 6D6 I.Fs., 76
second detector and 76 headphone audio.
Another 6C6 is used as beat oscillator.
The I.F. channel is at 5000 kc., with pri-
maries and secondaries in separate
screening cans and link-coupled.
In initial tests, though high quality
ceramic insulated tuning condensers and
special ceramic coil mountings were em-
ployed, difficulty was experienced in get-
ting the oscillator down to five metres.
The receiver worked perfectly around
seven metres. Dispensing with the cera-
mic coil former and making smaller air-
supported coils made all the difference.
Under test on the workbench, with a
doublet aerial lying on a concrete floor,
VK2XK, four miles distant, was tuned
in at R 9 plus.
A great deal was learned about track-
ing u.-s.-w. superhet circuits in making
this receiver. It' was concluded that,
where regeneration is used on a mixer
or R.F. stage, that particular stage should
be separately tuned. Otherwise tracking
troubles will be chronic.
Some adjustments are still necessary,
but the receiver shows amazing efficiency.
As it uses purely standard valves, it can
be easily duplicated. It will be described
in due course.
More stations are appearing on five
metres in Sydney, and VK2HL, Chats-
wood, is prominent with a strong signal
from an unusual form of triangular
aerial.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
Radio.
Can you give me postal addresses or list of
overseas short-wave stations? —449.
Those known are: R.N.E., Moscow; TPA2,
Service de la Radiodiffusion 98, bis Blvd
Haussmann, Paris; JVN, Nazaki, Japan; ZBW,
Hong Kong; VPD, Suva, Fiji; PHI, Huizen,
Holland; HJIABP, P.O. Box 37, Cartagena,
Colombia; ZHJ, Penang, Malaya; LSX, Monte
Grande, Argentina; ZGE, Kuala Lumpur, Fed.
Malay States; C 8960, Santiago, Chile; HAS 3,
Budapest, Hungary; HSHPJ, Bangkok, Siam;
PLP, Bandoeng, Java; 2RO, E.1.A.R., Rome,
Italy. Full postal addresses are not available,
but the addresses given should be sufficient.
* * * *
(1) I have an Austradyne six-valve receiver
made by a S.A. co. now out of business. Audio
stages are resistor-coupled, and several faulty
ones have been replaced by Chanex types. The
remaining originals are of AMSCO, but there
is one with the label torn off. Can you tell me
what value this one is? (2) Could I replace
the R.F. coils by iron-core tvpes ? —450.
(1) Cannot say without inspection. Best way
would be to take it to a dealer who has an ohm-
meter for measurement. (2) This could pos-
sibly be done, but would call for careful atten-
tion to layout, screening and valve types. The
coils would have to be made up experimen-
tally.
* * * *
What are the Japanese telegraph stations with
calls beginning JN — e.g., JNB, JNJ, JNF, etc.
—often heard on the 16- to 19 -metre band?
—448.
All these stations are transmitters situated
at Nagoya, Japan. They handle press and com-
mercial matters.
Workshop.
E.L. (Melbourne). — Can you give further
particulars of the use of bakelite as a material
for bearings in place of white metal or bronze
(B. 21/10/’36)?
In the last few years bearings of bakelite
of especial hardness and density have been in-
troduced with great success for heavy rolling-
mill spindles, sometimes giving a life up to
20 times as long as that of bronze bearings.
Since water acts as a lubricant on bakelite, the
material is also suitable for small pumps, water
turbines, etc. Bakelite as produced for bear-
ings has a compression resistance of from
30,0001 b. to 50,0001 b. per sq. in., and a hard-
ness figure of from 25 to 35—white metal has
about 20 and brass 50-60. Owing to its high
compression resistance, the bakelite compound
may be safely used for bearing pressures up
to 50001 b. per sq. in., at which figure the life
is considerably longer than that of bronze;
white metal would last scarcely any time. For
ordinary model work the standard commercial
grade of bakelite, bought in sheets, may be
used. Bushes are bored in the lathe in the
usual way, with a fairly high speed for the
finishing cut. Bearings should be a fairly
close fit on a shaft, and a little grease or thin
oil should be used as a “bedding-in” lubri-
cant. Pistons of small pumps, rams, etc., may
be usefully made of bakelite, piston rings
being dispensed with. No measurable clear-
ance should be allowed, and the piston must
have grease-retaining grooves.


«SILVER
EDGE*
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IX certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBE.STOS products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Via
The Steering Column.
GOOD-BYE TO FRED BERRY.
Fred Berry is dead, the result of a
motoring accident which happened on
the Calder Highway in northern Vic-
toria on October 30. When the acci-
dent occurred he was returning from a
conference in Adelaide, at which he had
represented N. S. Wales motoring bodies,
He was driving quietly along an almost
straight but slightly hilly road at half-
past six in the evening in the new yellow
Chrysler Plymouth which he had just
run in and of which he was extremely
proud.
In the collision he was flung across
his car. The driver of the other car —
which had come over the crest of a hill
—sustained a fractured back. Berry had
a dislocation of the neck vertebrae, a
lesion of the spinal cord and some ver-
A Frith impression of the late Fred Berry.
tebral fractures. An old friend and
fellow-delegate, George Merivale, who
was beside him in the car, was scarcely
injured.
Berry was cool and conscious. He
gave instructions for diagnosing his in-
juries, joked with the doctor and made
suggestions as to how he should be
splinted for removal to hospital. From
then till his death on November 17 he
showed great courage and fortitude. He
joked when they took him from the
ambulance, at the Epworth Hospital,
Melbourne, after a 200-mile night jour-
ney by ambulance. He could still joke
when they brought him by train to
Sydney on November 13. Between two
serious operations he talked to one of the
doctors, whom he knew, about personal
experiences. And after the operations,
occupying nearly six hours, his courage
still stood the test.
In the early morning of November
17 he was awake and made some laugh-
ing remarks to his nurse. A few minutes
afterwards he was dead.
Fred Berry was unique in the motor-
ing world of Australia. The son of a
schoolmaster, the late W. A. Berry, he
was born in the Wyong (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, and grew up in Ryde and Parra-
matta. He was trained as an accountant,
but one profession could not satisfy his
restless energy. At 19 he was earning a
living teaching shorthand. His sport
then was bicycling, and his reporting
facility soon made him the local paper’s
representative. The spectacle, of Fred
racing, head-down, late at night with a
two-column report of some local coun-
cil meeting was a common one on Ryde
and Parramatta roads nearly 30 years
ago.
One day a friend lent him a pre-war
motor-bicycle—that was in the days
when petrol was still called naphtha. His
initial attempt to ride it was not a suc-
cess. It ended in a broken machine and
a liability of £l9 to the owner. The
money was paid in
weekly instalments,
and Berry repaired
the wreck and be-
came a motorist.
He was the first
reporter in and
around Sydney to
use motor trans-
port for press pur-
poses.
Before long he
was an accom-
plished motor-
cyclist, a familiar
figure in the long
week-end trials on
the old Bathurst-
Oberon course. In
his spare moments
between bouts of
accountancy, short-
-11 an d teaching,
newspaper report-
ing and other occu-
pations, he became
a pioneer wireless
man; his old spark
\ station was one of
those taken over
by the military
authorities on the
outbreak of war.
By that time, too,
he had reached a
point where his
motoring profi-
ciency led to his
being requisitioned as an instructor to
the, Motor Cycle Corps.
He also became a qualified industrial
chemist. When he died, he was a fellow
of the British Chemical Society, an
Associate of the Australian Institute of
Chemistry and a past-president of the
Sydney Technical College Chemical
Association.
A few years before the war he began
to drive motor-cars, and from 1920 on-
wards was an ace of Australian drivers.
He held all the chief inter-capital road
records, won almost every road-racing
and reliability trophy worth winning,
and over a period of 20 years tested
every standard model of every standard
make of car which came on the market
in Australia.- He was on the verge of
having completed 1,000,000 miles of
motoring.
His combination of chemical, engi-
neering and driving experience made
him an inevitable court of appeal in
technical motoring cases. Oil companies,
police, international motoring bodies all
relied on his judgment. Also, he was one
of the pioneer commercial flying men
of Australia and founded one of Aus-
tralia’s first air-taxi services. In later
years he was the best-known Australian
motoring writer —he came to The Bulle-
tin in June, 1934. His Motor Manual
was a standard work, and latterly he had
supplemented his writing with a weekly
broadcast session.
Berry was a pioneer of the Royal
Automobile Club of Australia. From
when it was founded by Harrie Skinner
as a struggling institution to the last, he
was one of its mainstays. Some of his
time every day he was in Sydney was
given to the affairs of the club. Early
this year he retired from the chairman-
ship of the technical committee, which
he had held for five years, though he re-
mained a vice-president and a member
of several committees. He was also on
the executive of the round-Australia
motoring contest.
He was a hard and consistent worker.
Except on Saturdays, when he usually
took an afternoon off for golf at the
New South Wales club, his day nor-
mally stretched from 7 a.m. till mid-
night. Sunday was as much a working
day to him as any other.
My last drive with him was on the
day he left for Adelaide. He was 20
years older than when I first saw him, but
still a lean, bright figure, definite in
speech and action. In his driving he
proceeded with a careful leisurely assur-
ance which as nearly as possible elimin-
ated all risk.
The relaxed attitude, the air of never
having to hurry in any driving opera-
tion, the strong hands held lightly low
down on the wheel with plenty of room
to move them for any emergency, the,
well placed feet, the steady eyes which
never left the road as he. poured out his
usual concise flow of quaint diagnosis
were characteristic of him. And he
gaily made plans for the week after he
was to return from the journey from
which he came back to die.
He was to have been married on
March 27, 1937, and he looked forward
As the “Autocar” shows Britain’s new VS, the Autovia—high grade and high
price. The limousine sells at £995 in England. Makers are Autovia Cars, Ltd.,
Coventry.
with some excitement to his first trip
overseas, which was to follow.
A staunch friend, a master at his job,
unselfish and always quietly helping
somebody who needed a lift. Men like
Fred Berry are not bred often, even in
Australia, of which he was always typi-
cally proud to be a son.
M.H.E.
What’s What in the Motor Industry.
Figures given at the opening of
General Motors’ new factory near Mel-
bourne indicate the importance of the
Australian motor-car industry. It was
stated bv managing director L. J. Hart-
nett that in 1935 the company’s total
volume of business in the # Common-
wealth was £10,080,000, of which
£7,600,000 (75 p.c. of the total) was dis-
bursed in Australia in import duties,
taxation, purchases of locally-made
products, salaries, wages, selling ex-
penses, etc. Of the balance, £1,320,000
(13 p.c. of the whole) was spent on ma-
terials imported from Great Britain and
Canada, bringing the total amount spent
within the Empire during 1935 to
£8,920,000. Thus for every pound spent
by Australians on new cars and trucks
made by the co. in the Commonwealth,
15s. stayed in Australia, 2s. 7d. went
to Great Britain and Canada and only
2s. sd. to other countries. The amount
spent throughout the Commonwealth by
the co. in 1935 in salaries and wages
was £1,374,000, while local purchases for
the year totalled £1,750,000. The aver-
age number of employees during the
year was 6570. The fact that something
like 200,000 people are now directly
and indirectly employed in the Austra-
lian automotive, and allied industries and
in motor transportation means that, on
the basis of only two dependants for
every breadwinner, 600,000 Australians
derive their livelihood owing to the
motor-car and its operations in business,
industry and home services. In addition,
motor-owners are contributing about
£16,000,000 a year to Federal and State
Treasuries in the form of special taxa-
tion, equivalent to 16 p.c. of the whole
1935-36 taxation revenue of the seven
Australian Governments.
*** . *
Probably the hardest-worked motor
vehicles in Australia are the testing
trucks used by Dunlop Perdriau Rubber
Co. in checking laboratory results, and
thus ensuring to motor users tyre service
which is outstandingly good. During 12
months one. Dunlop test truck has been
in service—pounding over all descrip-
tions of roads, day and night, week after
week and month after month, in all kinds
of weather —it has travelled 128,000
miles. A crew of three drivers have
charge, of this tyre-testing unit, working
in shifts so that, except for scheduled
halts for fuel replenishments, greasing,
etc., the truck never stops. The data
obtained by running tyres to de-
struction ifnder scheduled con-
ditions over all classes of Austra-
lian roads enable Dunlops to de-
sign and build tyres more than
capable of meeting all the de-
mands of modern automobiles,
whether operating on first-class
highways or on outback Austra-
lian bush tracks.
Experts estimate that, if
petroleum crude oil sup-
plies should become ex-
hausted, enough fuel could
be extracted from oil shale
to operate all the motor
vehicles now registered in
the world (37,000,000) for more than 400
years. The world’s potential shale oil
production is estimated at 300,000 million
barrels of 42 gallons. The wholesale
value of the petrol consumed yearly is
about £500,000,000, and represents about
one-half of all petroleum products.
Heavy fuel oils constitute about one-
sixth and lubricants one-tenth. In Japan
experiments are being made to ascer-
tain if whale oil can be economically
used in Diesel-engined motor-trucks.
* * * *
The first motor show to be staged
specially for broadcasting was a recent
event in the 8.8.C.’s television pro-
grammes from Alexandra Palace.
Twenty different makes of British cars
were drawn up outside the Palace and
individually televised, the order of
presentation having been determined by
ballot. Explanatory comments by a well-
known motoring writer accompanied
each “shot.” Arrangements have been


MESSAGE
TO THE MAN WHOSE
TYRES ARE WORN
m
<25
372-30
Don’t buy those new tyres on mere
hearsay. Remember—the longer the
mileage you get —the longer it will be
before you have to spend any more
money. Check up on the best that’s
offering! Here are the advantages
Dunlop or Perdriau give—
The 12% cooler running and
52% longer casing life given by
Weftless Cord. (An improvement
exclusive to Dunlop interests in
Australia).
The 48% greater non-skid mile-
age provided by pounds more and
tougher rubber in the treads.
What other tyres can give you all
this ? Facts are stubborn things!
DUNLOPorPerdi'iau
Weftless cord tyres
W
made for a further 20 cars to be tele-
vised at a later date, on which occasion
the accompanying commentary may be
given by Malcolm Campbell.
Points About New Models.
In the Chrysler-Airstream Six and
Eight hypoid rear axle a larger pinion
gear is used, and teeth on pinion and
rear gears are longer and stronger. Be-
cause of this, and because the pinion
gear engages the ring gear below centre,
a greater area is in contact, resulting in
more silent operation and longer life.
The Chrysler-Plymouth frame follows
the contour of the body, which can be
bolted directly to the top and sides of
the frame. Frame and body strengthen
each other. In most cars, the body over-
hangs the side of the frame by several
inches, and wooden sills are used to
attach the body to the frame.
Morris trucks have a redesigned rear
axle combined with tapered roller bear-
ings for the pinion shaft, which affords
greater strength. Morris trucks now have
radiators built entirely of brass, with a
fin-type cooling surface.
Latest Fargo trucks have the rear axle
housing and tubes pressed in one piece.
Repair-shop Notes.
Breaker-point Alignment.
To find out whether or not a distribu-
tor has the points properly lined, take a
small piece of paper, place a scrap of
carbon paper over it, slip it in between
the points and snap the arm. This will
show where the points are out of align-
ment. By bending the arm and trying
again, a perfect set of points can be
arrived at without much effort.
Noisy Valve Springs.
The reconditioning of an engine in-
cluded new pins, rings, bearings and
valve and seat grinding. On starting the
engine there was a pronounced click
which could not be cut out. The noise
was heard only when coasting. Valve
clearances and spring tensions were
checked and found to be correct.
Accidentally some of the springs were
squeezed between the hands, and the
click was heard. It was due to the coils
being closer together at one end, and
when under compression they touched,
causing the noise.
Auto Comment.
“D.-P.B.”: The manufacture of modern
cars is year by year becoming more
complex. Ten years ago the Model T
Ford comprised about 7000 parts ; the V8
has more than 14,000, and the same may
be said of most well-known makes of
cars. The fact that the number of parts
in cars has practically doubled in a
decade goes to indicate what remark-
able value a purchaser now obtains, for,
generally speaking, the initial outlay is
now only about half what it was 10 years
ago, while road performances have im-
proved enormously. Far more manual
labor now goes into the making of a
car than in 1929, the world’s peak pro-
duction year of automobiles. In that
year output of cars in the world’s larg-
est automobile plants was at the rate of
12 per man, whereas this year the out-
put has dropped to 8.9 per man. Twenty-
six per cent, of the wholesale value of
new cars is now expended in wages, as
against 21.5 p.c. in 1929.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
i E.G.F. (Auskland, M.L.). —(1) What were the
1930 model Chevrolet tourers? (2) H.P. rating?
(1) The Club and Suburban six-cylinder
models. (2) Taxable h.p. rating 26.3.
* 'l' # *
J.F.T. (Wyalong, N.S.W.). — My car has ordi-
>tary tyres, not the extra-low-pressure kind.
The squealing noise they set up on corners is
annoying. Can l do anything to minimise it?
Even if tyres are correctly inflated, it is pos-
sible they will screech if you take a corner
fast, but most likely the trouble in your case
is that they are under-inflated. Adopt pressures
recommended by the manufacturers.
* * * *
G.L. (Melbourne). — Until recently my car,
Ion -r ws covered 25,000 miles, was doing
1 oU miles on a quart of oil; now it does barely
more than 80, though running well otherwise.
Cause and cure?
Worn pistons and wear in rings and cylinders
e usua l cause of heavy oil consumption,
it the wear has not been excessive it can be
remedied fairly cheaply by fitting new piston
Tings, one of which should be a scraper. If
the pistons and cylinders are considerably worn,
it is best to have the cylinders rebored and new
pistons fitted. A lasting remedy is to have the
cylinders trued up and liners fitted. Also main
crankshaft bearings, after a big mileage, fre-
quently allow the oil to work through.
'i* v -I' s.
E.H.W. (Maribyrnong, Vic.). — For 8000 miles
my car has behaved perfectly; lately, if the
throttle is opened fully for cruising on a fast,
straight road or climbing a steep hill, the engine
spits back through the carburettor and power
falls off. On throttling down for a minute or
so, the trouble disappears. Petrol supply, car-
burettor and ignition are all in order. Cause
and cure?
Most likely valve sticking is coincident with
the rise in temperature at full throttle. A tem-
The power plant of Britain’s latest VB, the Autovia. The car is in the high-grade
range, rated at 24 h.p., with centrifugal clutch, four-speed pre-selective gearbox,
two-stage propeller shaft and underslung worm-drive axle.
(A “Motor” illustration.)
porary cure can sometimes be effected by flush-
ing the valve stems with a little kerosene while
the engine is idling. Complete cure will most
likely entail removal of the head and valves,
so that stems can be thoroughly cleaned and
any traces of carbon removed. Possibly the
engine needs decarbonising.
* * * *
C.A. (Ashfield, N.S.W.). — When should one
retard and advance the ignition while driving
a car?
Ignition should be retarded when the engine
is pulling under heavy load. When running
lightly or pulling the car at normal cruising
speed, it should be fully advanced. As the load
on the engine increases, knocking or “pinking”
occurs, which is reduced by retarding the igni-
tion. It is not advisable to let the engine pull
hard under such conditions; better to change
gear down.
* ❖ =•: He
T.J.L. (Unley, S.A.). — 1 am bothered oy
fumes from the engine exhaust finding their way
into the car through the dash- and floorboards.
Best way to remedy?
Symptoms indicate leakage in the exhaust.
Examine exhaust manifold, exhaust pipe,
silencer, etc., for leaky joints. A new washer
may be required between exhaust manifold and
cylinder block, or between the flanges attach-
ing exhaust pipe to manifold or silencer. Some-
times an exhaust pipe is not quite long enough
to discharge the gases clear of the car, and
eddies cause them to be drawn up under the
body; such a pipe should, of course, be ex-
tended. Examine engine to see if oil vapor is
being discharged through the filler.
* * * *
H.C. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). — I am unable
to get the commutator of my car very clean
by holding a rag against it while the engine
is turned. What is the best method of clean-
ing ?
Hold a strip of fine emery cloth against the
surface of the commutator while it is rotated,
keeping the strip moving to avoid causing
ridges. Clean the slots between the segments
by scraping them with the end of a broken
hacksaw blade or something similar, so as to
remove any copper or carbon dust. Wipe or
blow away any copper or emery dust from
the interior of the generator.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Ago” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price I’d.' per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/— -per • quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000 .
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the'principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's, week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide's Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:— AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney— P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post’ brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Long White Cloud
Lovelock and the P.M,
Lovelock, the Rhodes scholar and
Olympic runner, has been received as a
conquering hero since he returned to his
native Maoriland. P.M. Savage, welcom-
ing him to Parliament House, said the
young man had maintained the reputa-
tion of M.L. “as a producer of great
men,” other “great men” being “Lord
Rutherford, the eminent scientist, and
Bob Fitzsimmons.”
Possibly the returned youth had heard
that Fitz, though an eminent thumper
who could knock any fellow-creature un-
conscious with one punch, was not a
Maorilander but a Cornishman, and illi-
terate at that. Anyway his speech had
an unusual touch.
Sport as a means of filling in leisure
time should not be stressed too hard.
Sport produces a sound body, a good
morale, invaluable self-discipline. The
abolition of military training has meant
the loss of some of this discipline.
At this point, the P.M. was discovered
to be looking thoughtfully at his soda-
water.
“F.”: Recent industrial legislation has
rapidlv unionised Maoriland. Between
July and the end of October 99 unions
of workers and 59 of employers were
registered. Maoriland’s million and a
half people are split into two definite
camps—so 9 workers’ unions and 190 em-
ployers’ associations. At the end of 1934
there were only 128 employers’ groups
and 404 workers’ unions.
* * *
“D.N.”: At Te Aroha Australians with
creaky joints limp in to “take the waters’
—and, according to Te Aroha people,
skip out minus every creak. The M.L.
Tourist Department has a soft spot for
Te Aroha’s domain, where bush walks are
punctuated with drinking-taps, each of
which has free mineral water of varying
flavor for the thirsty. Public mineral-
water baths, estimated to cost £2OOO, are
being constructed: water supplies come
from a 170 ft. bore, from which extremely
hot mineral water is now gushing 12ft.
into the air.
“S.S.T.”: Another early'-Maoriland
Governor (B. 18/11/’36) once offended
Queenstown councillors. No overseas
visitor is allowed to depart from Queens-
town without experiencing the exhilara-
tion of the mountain road. At hairpin
bends women scream and strong men
grip the sides of the vehicle and shut
their eyes. A Governor who had been
in the Navy willingly agreed to have his
nerves stimulated. He had been warned
of the thrills ahead of him, but the
Mayor took a bottle of whisky in case
of emergency. No sooner had the dan-
gerous part of the road been reached
than the Governor went to sleep. Ac-
companying officials were too scared
to wake him up, but the stopping of the
car at the end of the road did the trick.
“Did I hear you say you had a whisky?”
his Excellency asked the Mayor. “That’s
very good whisky,” was the Governor’s
next comment. The return journey
began ; but nary a sight of the Skippers-
road did the Governor see. He again
dreamed pleasant dreams as the bad bends
were negotiated and the precipitous hill-
sides climbed.
* * * *
“Motu”: The rabbit, so frequently
cursed by Maoriland farmers, has a
champion in a Conciliation Council
assessor, who told the South Island that
nothing should be done to “jeopardise”
the rabbit-skin industry. The U.S.A. has
no tariff obstructing the entry of M.L.
skins, and this season’s exports were
worth £BOO,OOO at the end of October.
Nearly 200 men are employed by brokers
and exporters in Otago alone, and there
are thousands of rabbiters. It was in
July, 1867, that the “Southland News”
reported rabbits as “successfully accli-
“Barge in on a girl's bathing-pool, would you?"
matised”; by March, 1869, they had
acclimatised themselves so well that the
same paper carried protests from
farmers, and dubbed the rabbit a
“nuisance.” And that is what he has
been to the farmers ever since.
* * * *
. “Xo”: Lack of interest often dis-
played by Maori members of Parlia-
ment in general measures (B. 18/11/’36)
has frequently puzzled European col-
leagues. In the Forbes Government’s
time the Opposition demanded a division,
and when members voted one hefty
Maori who had snored off during the
debate was missed. When he was ob-
served returning with the Government
men, one of his Opposition pals hurried
across and asked the yawning native why
he had changed his mind. “Ugh, near-
est door, eh,” was the cheerful explana-
tion.
“M.”: There are cats and dogs that
won’t look at a mouse in Maoriland’s
South Island. Districts between Mur-
chison and Nelson were recently overrun
with mice, which could be seen running
over open fields; every log and building
provided temporary shelter for the pests.
After the first few days of the invasion,
cats and dogs lost their mouse sense.
The same areas suffered in 1909, 1916
and 1932.’ Residents are still wonder-
ing what prompts'the invasions, where
the mice come from and where they go.
*;* * *
“Korero”: The menace to clean ad-
joining land of native-owned
blocks (B. 7/10/’36) was mentioned
when Labor’s Native Land Amendment
Bill was adopted. To encourage further
native settlement, the bill aims at more
co-operation between the Land and
Native Departments. More than a mil-
lion pounds has been spent establishing
1388 Maori farmers, but 10,000 natives
are dependent upon Forbes-Coates de-
velopment schemes which Labor plans
ta extend.
**- - * *
“Kiwit”: Disappointing whitebait runs
have caused concern in Maoriland,
and departmental officers are seeking
reasons for smaller shoals of the tiny fish
that comes to Australia in tins. Old net
fishermen say whitebait were once much
more plentiful, and one of Christchurch’s
earlier milkmen could bear them out.
When the flax-lined Avon Creek was
being transformed to the present garden
river, flounder and whitebait still moved
up as far as the city with the tides. An
angry householder one morning accused
his milkman of introducing some of the
Avon to his milk. The milkman was
indignant until his customer produced
the evidence —one incriminating white-
bait!
* # *
“Mak”: Fiction writers and Bulletin
contributors have made lone gold pros-
pectors and other wanderers still in Aus-
tralia’s Never-Never familiar enough to
Maorilanders. M.L. itself, a country of
neat farmhouses and social legislation,
has wild, unpopulated mountains and
stretches of lonely coast. At the back of
Eglinton Valley, near Lake Wakatipu in
the South Island, is the unexplored Ara-
wata country —and it has two dinkum
hermits. One is a 70-year-old prospector
who walks his ancient horse out of the
bush every few months for flour, oat-
meal, sugar and rice ; the rest of his diet
comes “off the land.” The other is a
breeder who drives his saleable cattle
down to civilisatjon about twice a year.
Every now and then these two neighbors
have a steak together.
: _ ..) ft lit ft ft
“Fergus”: The Tory Channel whale-
chasers using radio telephones to keep in
touch with shore lookouts (B. 21/10/’36)
will have a land parallel when the Frank-
lin (M.L.) Power Board institutes its
latest time-saving scheme. Its service
vehicles are to be fitted with radio tele-
phone equipment, and drivers within a
30-mile radius will get over-the-air in-
structions direct from the depot. The
move is one result of Auckland’s storm
in February, when electric power ser-
vices were dislocated. Vital repair work
was delayed because telephones, too,
were out of order in some areas, and the
drivers had to return to the depot after
completing every job.
ft ' $ ft *
“Mizpah”: Maoriland Chambers of
Commerce congress has launched a move
to try to interest Empire Governments
in reform of the calendar; the main
idea is to divide the year into equal
quarters of 91 days each. To allow for
the extra day, New Year’s Day would
remain undated ; a fixed date for Easter
would be provided. After all, the
calendar is merely a mechanical device
the world has found handy for carry-
ing on its daily business. Julius Gesar
pinched a day from February to
give his own month of July 31 days, and
Augustus Caesar likewise stole from Feb-
ruary to fatten his namesake August.
In view of those private precedents there
seems nothing against changing things
around for the sake of general conveni-
ence.
“Garda”: Having engaged young
Henare to paint my garage for 4s. and
seen him start work in the morning, 1
returned at midday to find Henare, jun.,
hard at it while big brother supervised,
lying in the shade of a tree. It came out
that he had sub-let the contract to the
youngster for 4s. 6d. He admitted to
losing money, but reckoned it was
“wort’ sixpence to pe poss.”


“I’ll see you again,
Doctor”
He is wise who goes to his dentist
regularly for teeth and gum in *
sf)ection. Many serious illnesses
which originate in the mouth may
be prevented by modern dentistry.
See your dentist at least twice a
year. It pays.
D.R. SMI T
D.D.S.
4outofs
get pyorrhea through neglect
JDYORRHEA, diread disease of the
gums, attacks four persons out of every
five past forty because they are careless of
Nature’s warning.
It starts with tender, bleeding gums.
Later the teeth looseh in their sockets and
poison is spread throughout the system,
often causing rheumatism, neuritis and other
diseases.
If you have pyorrhea go to your Dentist
at once for treatment. He can help you.
I o prevent pyorrhea consult your Dentist
at least twice a year, brush your teeth night
and morning with Forhan’s for the Gums.
Forhan’s is the formula of R. J. Forhan,
D.D.S., specialist in mouth diseases for
over 26 years. It contains Forhan \s
Pyorrhea Astringent, which is used by
thousands of dentists in the treatment of
pyorrhea.
If used regularly and used in time,
Forhan's for the Gums will prevent
pyorrhea or check its progress. It is a
pleasant dentifrice which serves a dual
purpose: it cleanses the teeth and wards
off dread pyorrhea.
Price 2/-; extra-large tube J/-,
A ustralasian A gents:
The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
N=sr
=N^vm:a:©a
¥o.aammw3o
asSraoj^o'iwniaßd i=
ase^MfiMsyssii
ei7sclg:ii
AV3N
QsSgIDMMOJ
EHlliaooAHSnBa
3 HI
m
Forhan’s
for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
L/fflfcs.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send JO/-.)
X
jV-V
&
.d
*vO .w\ .••* ..-* .**
/tie*’ •••■ ..••■ .• ‘,
0. ?' ..-••■ ,•-
,•••■ ..•••„. of'°^VX
am ;>° v


I
Lj
mw
mi
m
■ft
pi m
mmmu
i ' W&
; is it
IKHI
mm « MS ■
l|||y ISPS Wfflm
SSSBP®
n
M
' U M Mi
in i; <
'/
f j 1
fSE v- T-*
'f '44
i i
:
* I
n
la
■
'<A}M
HEAD OFFICE:
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
CORNER
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
WM. BENNETT,
Managing Director.
