

CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
as well as City Interests. ,
I nvestments carry greatest possible security.
The Society that imposes no restrictions on aeroplane travel.
Yearly Bonus additions to all participating policies.
M utual—owned and controlled by the Policy-holders,
u ndoubtedly the most Liberal and Progressive Life Office.
The Office to assure with for Bigger Bonuses,
u nique advantages by assuring with the City Mutual Life.
A. ustralia’s Security is the City Mutual Policy-holders’ Security.
Liberality to Members unexcelled.
Lowest Expense Rate, 10.7% —1934.
I nvestment yield - the greatest available.
Free Accident Conditions on all Policies with Death Risk.
Empire’s Soundest and Best Assurance Institution.
Strongest Reserves of any Society in the Empire.
nly one Board of Directors in the whole of Australia.
Careful selection of Risks, Low Mortality, High Interest Yield,
build Bonuses.
I nvestment in Life Assurance never depreciates.
Efficient and Economical Management
T he Millionaire Society that operates only in the Commonwealth.
Y oung Australians will positively secure their future by
becoming Policy-holders of this Society.
Ill#;®
i#a#fe
yttMuranee the Balance Wheel of Life
The one Investment that did not depreciate during the World-wide Depression
Life Assurance is the only Business Certainty
In October, 1934, a Member, 23 next birth-
day, effected a Policy on his life for £3OOO,
and paid a quarter’s premium of £l5/15/-.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for 1934 was
£B6/5/-!
Full particulars will be forwarded on
application.
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE OR BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORTGAGE
ASSURE WITH
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
Wm. BENNETT, Managing Director
The Bulletin
Parfyhill on Planes
Vol. 57.—N0. 2922.
Wednesday, February 12, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
siudy
at HOME
Particulars Free to You!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Special Home-Study Short RADIO COURSE as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
SB. 53 C
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum fora Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a .book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
THE NEW
“FORSYTE
SAGA”
John Gal s-
worthy died on
January 31, 1933,
and already H. V.
Marrot, his bibli-
ographer and inti-
mate, has pro-
duced his Life and Letters (Heinemann;
215.) on the scale of anew Forsyte Saga.
It is not great biography. It might
more readily be called a biographer’s
vade mecum —everything there is to learn
about a life which ran serenely and yet
was full of color and striving. The
public knew little of Galsworthy outside
his work. Reference-books catalogued
his school, his degrees, his honors, the
names of his 26 novels and his innumer-
able plays, and the fact that he was a
member of the Athenasum. Yet, know-
ing nothing, his readers knew everything,
and opening this book is like delving into
the family papers of a familiar Forsyte
of young Jolyon’s generation.
The very processes by which Soames
Forsyte achieved knowledge of his ances-
tors on that fatal day when Fleur was
abandoned by young Jon and the fire
in the gallery at The Shelter destroyed
the last of the older Forsytes had been
experienced by Galsworthy himself. He
was born, the son of a solicitor and com-
pany director, on the very site near
Kingston on which Bosinney’s house
stood. His father was old Jolyon, his
mother the prototype of Frances Flem-
ming Freeland, his brothers and sisters
and brothers-in-law, his cousins and his
aunts the basically familiar Forsyte
figures, moulded to his hand in shape and
circumstance.
If any man should not have been born
to write, it was Galsworthy. Two inches
short of six feet high, slender, athletic, a
gymnast and a leader in sport at Harrow
and at Oxford, with an adequate income
and the influence to give him a practice
at the Bar if he needed it, he was mean
to be the Englishman of leisure. In hi
beginnings he was branded by Edwarc
Garnett as a “clubman.” He lived the
youth of the well-to-do middle-class, with
no mark upon him except that largish
sensitive mouth and imaginative clef
chin to suggest that he might ever be
a major novelist, much less a dramatis
in the first rank. He travelled —to Aus-
tralia and home in the Torrens with
Conrad, to the South Seas, to the usua
European countries of the mid-Victorian
grand tour, to Russia, He was distin-
guished from an ordinary run-out of
Harrow and Oxford friends by a habit
of frequenting the slums at night. He
inhabited the ordinary chambers of the
young member of the Inner Temple, and
indulged his passion for horses-and dogs.
(Nat Gould, he once wrote to an Aus-
tralian, was “the worst writer in the
world, only redeemed by what he writes
about—horses—the which are the pink
of creation.”) He sat on the boards of
his father’s companies.
And then one day at the bookstall of
the Gare du Nord in Paris, Ada Gals-
worthy, his cousin’s wife, murmured to
him, “Why don’t you write? You’re just
the person.” And write he did for 40
years with the kind of enduring energy
which is generally the gift of men of
small stature rather than of his physical
type, with a tenacity and meticulous care-
fulness about standards almost without
parallel in the history of modern litera-
ture. Very little of his writing is bad ;
much of it is beautiful and full of phrases
which linger like those of the Song of
Solomon and the Sermon on the Mount.
Who can forget the last words of “The
Apple Tree” or the perfect rightness of
the ending of The Man of Property, anc,
remembering, not forgive the small art
fjces by which his philosophy was some
times concreted—his “little moonlit dogs
and his “white monkeys”?
For 11 years he wrote without materia
success. There was a debit balance o
£75 against his literary account after tha
time, for he had spent £IOO against th
publication of his work, and his retur
had been a few guineas; but at the enc
of that period of emergence he had Th
Man of Property to his credit, his lif
had framed itself in settled ways, and h
had surrounded himself with a machin
ery of criticism which was to be his in
spiration and his brake to the end of hi
life, of which Ada Galsworthy was th
mainspring.
As she was. the beginning of his writ
ing, so she was largely the source of it
continuance, and his love-story with he
is the main thread of his saga. The
daughter of a doctor of Norwich, home
of Sir Thomas Browne, she married hi
cousin, Arthur Galsworthy, and the mar
riage was unhappy. The story is fear
lessly and frankly told. John Galsworthy
and she fell in love in 1895. They soon
became lovers in the full sense. For
nine years they struggled with fate, meet
ing secretly, stealing small periods
abroad under the eye of a chaperon, con
veniently blind, but refusing to take
plunge lest it should hurt his father,
very old man for whom he held an
almost passionate affection. When ole
John Galsworthy died in 1904, the pair
went away together, and divorce papers
were served on them. They married, and
from then onward his wife was his every-
day thought, his “flower of flowers,” the
She whom he last remembered when he
lay dying. All through their troubles
those closest to both of them, knowing
her unhappy circumstances, tolerated and
helped them as they could. And after-
wards, in the period of his success, she
was the darling of his friends and his
“indefatigable secretary,” his musicianly
inspiration, his witty companion and
chronicler. Even Edward Garnett, his
most prosaic friend, could write of her:
Ada! You were made to be carried off
m Chinese sieges by mandarins and quar-
relled over by Biscayan pirates! There’s
something in you that goes awfully well
with a Byronic poem, “Lara,” and with
booty and yellow-silk trousers.
It was she who lent a touch of adven-
turousness to his writing ; from her and
his ordeal with her were derived his main
theme of chagrin d'amour which runs
through all his works, and in Irene and
in Gyp of Beyond and in the poor
drowned woman of The Dark Flower
there was much of her. And in her, too,
probably lay the reason why Soames’s
wife and her co-types were rather figures,
passive and objective, than active char-
acters. There is always the feeling that
he treated them with a special and affec-
tionate restraint; that his nature, which
was sternly judicial, relaxed its ordinary
habit in their company, and that he
allowed himself the luxury of respecting
their reticences and showed towards
them a loving bias which he did not
show towards others.
Galsworthy’s literary method was un-
usual. Settling an argument for an Aus-
tralian many years ago, before modern
criticism had fully begun to analyse him,
he wrote that a student who had guessed
that he built from a single character
rather lhan from a plot was “right, sur-
prisingly so.” The personality of some-
one of his acquaintance floated upper-
most in his mind. Round it he gradu-
ally wove a theme which he dressed with
purpose. Circumstance and action
evolved themselves, other characters
appeared. Usually his work began as
a sheer piece of portraiture, but after a
chapter or two his people took on anew
nature, plastic at first, to be moulded wet,
a turbulent barrage of criticism from
other minds than his helping to beat
them into final form when they could
be polished and given the right patina.
The criticism was an extraordinary
feature of Galsworthy’s procedure, and
as it is given by Mr. Marrot, it con-
stitutes in itself a series of invaluable
lessons for the young writer, and could
be read with advantage by the diplomat-
ist. Throughout it is admirable in tone.
Edward Garnett, Conrad, H. G. Wells,
Gilbert Murray, E. V. Lucas vied with
each other in ruthless analysis and
plain speaking. The author, in exchange
gave them his reactions. Usually h
stuck to his points with steadfastness
Sometimes, with the more persistent o :
them, there was a touch of asperity ir
the exchanges, especially in those with
Garnett; but it is a striking commentary
on the characters of his group of helper
that their friendships with the autho
remained unbroken to the end, and tha
the zest with which they hounded him
to perfection remained as great when
he was on the verge of becoming a Nobe
Prize winner as when, in his beginnings
they perceived the seeds of greatness fer
tilising in him.
If there is one fault in Mr. Marrot’s
work it is that he has cluttered his book
too much with the statistics of vicarious
newspaper comment which does no
matter, but the fault is balanced by the
fullness of text of that which does.
Galsworthy’s work is too recent to
allow any judgment as to his final place
in literary history, but many things are
already clear about him, Asa work-
man, his art was unique in his age. He
might be called a literary silversmith—
his writing excites something of the same
feeling that one has on gazing at a good
Cellini piece. Asa crusader, there has
been no one since Dickens to excel him
—he espoused causes to be won or not
to be won, those of the bedraggled dog
of the gutters and the weak-mouthed
unemployable, the prisoner undergoing
solitary confinement. He fought against
aerial warfare and the bombing of civil
populations before there was any great
war to point his moral. He stood for
the misused alien during the war while
himself serving his country in such
mariner as he could. But whether the
cause was one to be won or whether
there was no hope of winning it, he still
fought for it with a formidable armory.
For all his complex professional insight
into character, he was the prey of every
beggar who approached him, and, irre-
spective of its thinness, any tale could
reach his pocket, so that more than half
his income went to help others. Para-
doxically, he was the leading ironist of
the Edwardian period, but, above all, he
was a superb portrayer of a cross sec-
tion of his age—so deadly in - his in-
directly descriptive accuracy that he sac-
rificed his right to be regarded as a
popular author J at the zenith of his
powers, and that many of his contem-
poraries read him with the sensation
which comes to a court beauty as she
gazes in her glass at her semblance dis-
figured by a carbuncle. But, of all
twentieth-century novelists, he will prob-
ably live most clearly among readers of
discernment in the same way in which
Sterne, the eighteenth-century novelists,
Jane Austen and Hardy will live. The
beauty of his style, the lovingly-fashioned
purity of his English, and his sincerity
will ensure it. For one or other of those
features of his writing there will always
be somebody to read him with under-
standing and affection.
M.H.E.
The Master
of Space
The claim of
this twentieth
century of ours
to be more en-
lightened than its
predecessors rests
in the main on two great improvements
in means of transport’, the automobile
and the aeroplane, and one in means of
communication, radio. If, as most men
who seek peace among the nations tell
us, better facilities for international con-
versation diminish the possibilities of war,
it is worth remembering that an Italian
gave the world the power to send mes-
sages through the ether ; that he had a
Scottish mother, and that the British
G.P.O. stretched out a helping hand to
the young inventor and set him on the
highway to a success without parallel in
scientific history in its swiftness and com-
pleteness.
Marconi, Master of Space, by B. L.
Jacot and D. M. B. Collier (Hutchinson;
215.), the first authorised biography of
the originator of wireless telegraphy, tells
the story of that success in a manner
palatable to the layman, though it does
not entirely eschew the technicalities of
the new science. It answers all questions
one might ask concerning the way this
romantic dream of using air instead of
copper wire to carry thoughts originated
and clothed itself with facts. It came, in
the truest sense of the word, by inspira-
tion. From 14 to 20 young Marconi,
son of a wealthy, well-born father, in-
terested himself in physics and chemistry.
At 20 he read ah account of the work
and experiments of Hertz. Hertz demon-
strated little more than that the induc-
tive effect of the electric current could
operate at a distance of some feet be-
tween circuits. Marconi, pondering this,
suddenly arrived at a conclusion, while
lying sleepless abed (in the same circum-
stances Descartes evolved the co-
ordinates), that the; Hertz effect could be
realised over indefinitely great distances.
It was a conviction, apparently irrational.
Hertz was dead ; his discovery had been
known for 10 years. Nobody else on
earth (as exhaustive legal proceedings
demonstrated in later years) thought of
commencing Hertz left off and
discovering the limitations of his prin-
ciple. As it happened, there are no
discoverable terrestrial limitations. The
most recent researches among “echoes”
seem to show that wireless waves can
travel 78,000,000 kilometres and still give
a signal.
But that was last year. In 1894, when
Marconi commenced to spend all his
father would allow him on batteries and
wires, it took quite a few months of
work before any extension of the
Hertzian effect could be achieved. Then
one cold December- night young Giuseppe
woke his mother and took her up to his
attic laboratory.
The long attic rooms were lit by lamps,
and in the yellow half-light Signora
Marconi saw at one end a mass of appa-
ratus that even her sympathy could not
make her begin to comprehend. A tangle
of wiring loomed above this apparatus.
Through the archway, in the attic beyond,
was a compact group of batteries, zinc rods
and coils. At their side, as they stood,
was a small table on which Was a key.
“Listen, mother,” said the boy. He
pressed the key.
From the far end of the attic came a
buzzing. The Signora, shivering in her
peignoir, waited for more. But that, it
seemed, was all. “It’s wonderful!” she
said.
With an arm round her shoulders Mar-
coni took her back to bed. And wonderful
o Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
The Senior Store
While
l Live I'll Grow”
Anthony Horderns’
half-
yearly
genuine
TOOLS REDUCED
ĵ
Dawn Parallel-jaw Bench Vice
Size of jaws, ins. ... 2*
Prices, each 11/3
Sale Prices, each ... 10/-
Size of jaws, in
Prices, each
Sale Prices, each
5/- Adze-eye Nail Hammers
Cheney Adze-eye Nail Hammers, strongly made and reliable. No. 30J x
20oz. A worthwhile saving for builders. Price, each 5/
4 / 6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each '
4'6
27/6 “Jubilee” Rawlplug Outfits
“Jubilee” Rawlplug Outfits containing holder and one drill each. Nos.
8, 10, 12, 14 and Rawlplugs for same. A useful and compact outfit
for builders. Price, each
Sale Price
27/6
15/-
15'-
5/- Tyzack’s-handled Bricklayers’ Hammer
Splendid value! These reliable Tyzack’s Bricklayers’ Hammers are almost
half price! Well-made and securely handled. Wise builders will buy
several now. Price, each
2/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each '
2'9
j
Double-twist Double-thread Auger Bits
Marples Cox Patent Double-twist
Sizes, inches
Prices, each
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices ....
Also Double-twist Double-spur Auger
Prices, each
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, each
1 /- Combination Cutting Plyers
The builder and handyman will appreciate this Sale value!
Reliable Combination Cutting Plyers. Sizes, ins. 6 8
Prices, each I/&
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, each Bd. 1/8
8 D
8 D
2/- Slip-joint Combination Plyers
Well-known Bridgeport Slip-joint Combination Plyers are
reduced by 9d. during the Sale. A pair should be in
every workshop. Size, 7in. Price, pair 2/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 1/3
I'3
ĵ
Disston’s “Slim” Horseshoeing Rasps
Disston’s Reliable “Slim” Horseshoeing Rasps at worthwhile reductions.
Sizes, inches >2 M 15 18
Prices, each 1/8 2/2 2/6 3/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices 1/8 1/8 2/2
j
8/6 Spring Dividers
Brown and Sharps’ Strong
Spring Dividers with spring
nuts.
Sizes, inches .... 4 5 6
Prices, each .... 8/6 8/9 10/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Prices 7/- 7/6 9/-
7'-
Ratchet
Screwdrivers
Ratchet Turn-
screws.
blades for trade
6 Do
or household use. Strongly
made and reliable for long
service.
At Anthony Horderns’, each,
6d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.
"Tiie, &xx£& of- &a£e §exzs&n>"
HIGH GRAQr
.Housf; t
(V-:rjfij
:r.'4.;\;
f&ra
ABSOrIP
PUt?f
AB Reinforced
HIGH-GRADE
PAINT
at bargain prices
AB Reinforced High-grade Paint looks better, lasts longer and wears
like a rock. Preserve your property with AB.
Sizes, tin fPt- IP‘- *G»I- i Gal. 1 Gal.
Prices tin 1/9 3/2 6/- 11/- 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, tin .... 1/8 3/- 5/9 10/3 19/6
“Blue Label” High-grade Paint
“Blue Label’’ High-grade Paint is inexpensively priced, yet reliable for
years of wear. Available in and Colours.
Sizes, gallons
All Colours, Prices, tin
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, tin
White, Prices, tin • ' ' ~
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, tin 5/9
& Colour Cards FREE on Application.
Street’s White Ant and Borer
Cure
An Effective and Permanent Eradicator of White Ants and Borers.
Sizes, tins 1 Pt- i Gal. £ Gal. I Gal.
Prices, tin '/9 3/3 4/9 8/6
Sale Prices, tin 1/7 3/- 4/3 7/9
0 Paints—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
Builders’ Requisites
at Sale Prices!
English Erinite Mortice Lock Sets, complete, 2 knobs and
escutcheon plates. Exeter design. Price, set 77-
Sale Price, set 5/-
Japanned Steel Letter Box Plates. Price, each 9d.
Sale Price, each . 6^*
Yale Truck Casters, 212. Price, set of 4 9/6
Sale Price, set of 4
No-slam Screen Door Checks. Price, each 1/6
Sale Price, each ®d.
Nickelplated Milk Taps, fin. Price, each 8/3
Sale Price each ®/“
Heavy Japanned Hasps and Staples, 126, Bin. Price, ea., 2/6
Sale Price, each V 3
Japanned Hasps and Staples, 126, Price, each .. . 2/9
Sale Price, each
Galvanized Hasp and Staples, 126, Bin. Price, each .... 3/3
Sale Price, each
Galvanized Hasp and Staples, 126, 9£in. Price each . . 47-
Sale Price, each '
Brass Butt Hinges, 702, 4in. (without screws). Price, pair, 5/4
Sale Price, pair * ' '
Cast Iron Butt Hinges, 3iin. (without screws). Price,
Sale Price, dozen pairs . . /
Japanned Triple-hook Hat and Coat Hooks (without
screws). Price, dozen jC
Sale Price, dozen '
Cut Crystal Glass Frontdoor Knobs, 3in. Price each . .
Climber g£s Frontdoor Knobs. 3in.' ' Price,' each,' 19/-
Sale Price, each '
• Builders’ Requisites-Lower Ground Floor Pill SUM. Free deliver, Cil, and
Suburbs only.


<>*
<s>
xs
Here is the Book thousands have been waiting for!
TIBURON
Kylie Tennant’s Brilliant Story of Life in an Australian Country Town.
Winner of the S. H. Memorial Prize for 1935, and acknowledged
as the best serial published in The BULLETIN for many years , Tiburon,
in book form, will be a worthy addition to your bookshelves, for it is a
book to be read by the whole family.
JUST PUBLISHED AND PHENOMENAL VALUE
416 PAGES. PRICE 5 J - (POSTAGE 4d.).
All Booksellers and Newsagents, or from
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane. Melbourne,' Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
it was. He had succeeded in making an
electric bell ring by means of radiation at
a distance of 30ft. across space.
It was in 1896 that Marconi went to
London and demonstrated his invention
on the roof of the G.P.O. at St. Martins-
le-Grand, whence messages were sent to
a station on the Thames Embankment.
William Preece (afterwards knighted), the
chief engineer of the Post Office, one of
the world’s great telegraphy experts, was
quite convinced of the possibilities of the
invention, and he lent Marconi the ser-
vices of a young engineer, J. S. Kemp.
Kemp stayed with Marconi till he died
in 1932.
The rest of the story can be but
briefly summarised here. By 1899 signals
had been sent across the ' English
Channel; by 1901 across the Atlantic
from Poldhu in Cornwall to St. John’s,
Newfoundland. One of the messages on
that occasion was an advertisement for
the “Times”: “Jan 3, wife of R. N.
Vyvyan, chief engineer Marconi’s
Canadian station, of a daughter.” But,
alas! static got in its deadly work, and
the ad. appeared in print commencing
“Jane, third wife of R. N. Vyvyan.”
On August 3, 1908, Australia received
its first wireless message, from a press
correspondent on a U.S.A. warship in
mid-Pacific. The first wireless communi-
cation between Australia and M.L. was
on April 8, 1910.
In April, 1911, it was discovered that
music could be transmitted through the
ether; interesting, but not particularly
significant, so the world thought. But
the discovery gave a fresh fillip to wire-
less telephony, which had been develop-
ing since 1900. In 1907 Lee Forest’s
three-electrode valve helped the experi-
menters. In 1920 came Fleming’s ther-
mionic valve, and in that year Melba
broadcast a song recital—she was one of
the pioneers of the modern field of radio
entertainment. Broadcasting in Britain
on its modern officially organised scale
commenced on Nov. 14, 1922. Beam
wireless commenced in 1924. In 1929 the
King of Italy made Marconi a hereditary
marquis. '
A few days ago the whole British
Empire was able to listen to the solemn
funeral service of the King-Emperor at
St. George’s Chapel, Windsor, and later
to a message from its new monarch.
Never before have the wide-flung
Dominions felt so closely in tune with
their parent land. Some gratitude is due
to the man who made these things pos-
sible.
A.D.W.
To S.H. Prior
Prize
Entrants
The 1936 (sec-
ond) S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize
for the best prose
work by an Aus-
tralian writer
closes in four
months’ time—on June 6, to be exact —
and already several entries are in hand.
These early-comers are welcome, for
they lighten the burden of the judges by
helping to spread the time for judging
over a longer period. The task of con-
scientiously reading three or four hun-
dred full-length books and making the
necessary notes is an onerous one under
the best of conditions. When three-
fourths of the entrants wait until the last
couple of weeks before sending in their
entries the pressure on the judges is very
severe.
While details as to class of paper used,
method of typing, numbering of pages
and binding have been left to the dis-
cretion of entrants, they will make the
reading of their manuscripts easier if they
use white bond paper, of standard busi-
ness-letter size (Biin. by 11 in.) and of
medium weight (161 b. to 201 b.). Type-
writer ribbon should be black ; one side
of paper only should be used, and mar-
gins should be about an inch on top,
bottom and right side, and l|in. on the
left. Double-space between lines. Indent
the first line of each paragraph about
five spaces. Make a carbon copy and
keep it —don’t send it instead of the
original typescript. Number each page
in the upper right-hand corner, and carry
numbers consecutively throughout the
entire manuscript. It is generally best
to leave the pages loose, though MSS.
which are fastened in chapters with a
slide-on clip are easy to handle. Place
the whole in an ordinary springback
letter-file or in a box-file with a simple
spring clip inside. Files in which sharp
screws and spikes and bulky clips are
used are apt to prove a nuisance, and
sometimes dangerous to those who have
to handle them. Any form of fastening
which makes it difficult to read the first
few words on the left-hand side should
not be used. In all cases the MS. should
be easy to get at and taken apart if
desired. Print the title and nom de plume
in bold lettering on the outside cover
of the file.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Up in the Hills ' Lord Dunsany.
A Conquest of Tibet Sven Hedin.
Life and Letters of John Galsworthy .. H. V. Marrot.
Marconi, Master of Space B.L. Jacot and D. M. B. Collier.
W iEN Lord Dunsany, whose ancestral
castle is in County Meath, writes of
his own people, there comes to the
reader some inkling of what is meant by
that old figure of speech “Erin, with the
smile on her lips and the tear in her
eye.” In Up in the Hills (Heinemann ;
7s. 6d.) he tells the story of a “private
war” among the hills in the first days
of the Irish Free State, when the Eng-
lish rule was lifted and the new Govern-
ment was discovering what it was like
to rule people who were constitutionally
agin Governments. The hero is Mickey
Connor (he’d be 17 or 18), who, with
seven followers, waged battle against
Patsy Heffernan (he was maybe 19), who
had an army of a hundred and a
machine-gun to boot. The Connor fac-
tion found it advisable to leave their vil-
lage and take to the hills because a party
of negro archaeologists from a new
African republic were digging in the bog
for relics of the lake-dwellers and the
wise women of the place were dealing
out curses in a very wicked manner.
When the war (and a grand war it was)
had proceeded but a little way General
James Cassidy came from Dublin, had
Patsy Heffernan shot one cold dawn,
and would have executed Mickey had
not that brave lad escaped owing to the
General being eaten by Umbolulu, whose
Protestant principles were not proof
against the hunger induced by a Catholic
boycott. Interlacing this fantastic story,
told with the gentlest of humor and the
most fairy-like touch of satire, are de-
scriptions of the countryside and the
people that are eloquent of affection.
Nobody but themselves will ever fully
understand the southern Irish. Dunsany
shows why the outsiders can’t and never
shall, but points out, without seeming to,
the lovable quality of the inexplicable
race.
Sven Hedin, the Swedish explorer, who
probably has travelled more extensively
in Tibet than any other human being—
the maps of the country are, save in their
main outlines, almost entirely his work —
has written two great works (one in eight
volumes and the other in twelve) about
it, copiously garnished with maps and
photographs, but these are cherished only
by great libraries and geographical
societies. For the general reader there
now comes a more human document, A
Conquest of Tibet (Macmillan ; 225. 6d.),
translated from Hedin’s Swedish by
Julius Lincoln and copiously illustrated
with black-and-white sketches made
either from memory or on the spot by
the explorer. The alternative is given
because Hedin doesn’t say when or how
he made the drawings, though he records
almost continual use of a camera, and
he is emphatic that most of the time he
was in Tibet the temperature was 10 to
20 degrees below the Centigrade zero.
In such circumstances sketching wouldn’t
be likely to be a popular pastime.
Hedin records two attempts to pene-
trate the mysteries of Tibet. On the first
(1893-97) he attempted to get to Lhasa
disguised as a pilgrim, but the Tibetans
were too leery for him, and kindly but
firmly put him out of the country. His
second shot occurred after the Young-
husband expedition had ransacked
Lhasa, and after the Dalai Lama had
absconded, so this time his objective was
Tashi-Lunpo, where the Tashi Lama (a
sort of Archbishop of York to the Dalai
Lama’s Archbishop of Canterbury) has
his stronghold. To his great surprise the
Tashi Lama gave him a cordial invita-
tion to drop in and witness the New
Year ceremonies, so Hedin entered the
great city of monasteries, and had several
interviews with the Tashi Lama (whom
he describes as “lovable and kind”).
After their first chat, which occupied
three hours, Hedin photographed the
Lama. Then the Lama with his own
camera (shade of great Buddha!) photo-
graphed Hedin, and they amicably de-
veloped the negatives together in the
monastery dark-room.
Of the adventures amid ice and snow,
yaks, wild asses, wolves, fast-rushing
rivers, avalanches, glaciers and the mighty
peaks of the Himalayas this short notice
cannot attempt any' description. The
book has a flavor that is unique, and
which cannot be described.
The Galsworthy biography, recom-
mended above, and the account of Mar-
coni’s career are dealt with in articles
on page 2.
♦
We Soviet Women, by Tatiana Tcher-
navin, translated by N. Alexander
(Hamish Hamilton ; 7s. 6d.). The author-
ess, who left Russia in 1930, her husband
being then in a Soviet prison camp, has
related many of her experiences in an
earlier book, Escape from the Soviets.
Here she is concerned with the reactions
of different women she has met--
peasants, students, Madame Trotsky
(under whom she worked in the Museum
Department), political prisoners (she was
herself some rponths in prison), a G.P.U.
spy, a Soviet writer—to the new order,
and with the absurdity of many of the
new laws. She tells how she divorced
her husband (they were remarried later)
so that a housing committee would give
her permission to move, and there are
other examples of “trickery to get round
the law —an essential feature of Soviet
life.” It makes interesting reading, the
absence of vituperation having the effect
of strengthening the indictment.
The Barbarians, by Virginia Faulkner
(Arthur Barker; 7s. 6d.). Most of the
characters are members of a Parisian
colony of artists and writers, Frenchmen
(and -women), Germans and Americans
among them. Fun-making is of this sort :
At this moment Joseph Comrade sprang
to his feet and began to make a series
of extraordinary poises.
. “Is he in labor?” demanded Marie.
The writer is a young lady of some 20
summers. The book is amusing enough
in its way, and has a little light satire on
modern art.
Faith, Hope, No Charity, by Margaret
Lane (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), is a cross-
section through the life of two young
women, written with such sincerity and
sympathy and so convincing in detail
that it reads like autobiography. Jt
cannot be so, for the two principal
characters live in worlds as far apart as
the poles. Both have their share of
heartbreaks and vicissitudes, but both
are good fighters. The reader takes
leave of them when one has buried her
young husband, a tuberculous docker,
whom she loved devotedly, and the other
has returned from Yorkshire, where she
visited her wealthy fiance’s family, quite
convinced that his mother would never
let them marry. She didn’t love the
chap, and is a bit relieved. An inde-
terminate ending, but a neat clewing-up
of all loose ends seldom happens at any
stage in life.
A Pot-Pourri of Eastern Asia, by
Florence M. Taylor (Building Publish-
ing Co., Sydney; 10s. 6d.), is a record of
a tourist jaunt that included New Guinea,
the Philippines, Hong Kong, Yokohama
and Tokio. The author is by profession
an architect, has an avid appetite for
statistics, appears to consider that Aus-
tralia’s democratic tendencies are evi-
dence of national rottenness and inter-
lards her pages with fierce denunciations
of trade-unions and protective tariffs,
In Japan she found much to admire—
government by aristocrats ; enormous ex-
penditure on armaments. She thinks
Australia should devote a lot more atten-
tion to defence, and on that point it isn’t
difficult to agree with her, but an ex-
pression of the argument with less poli-
tical bias would be more effective. Draw-
ing up an indictment against a nation is
not only difficult, as Burke observed,
but a waste of time. Mrs. Taylor’s book
is splendidly illustrated, and her descrip-
tions of scenes and manners are bright.
Australasian Catholic Directory, 1936
(Pellegrini, Sydney ; 45.). Its 524 pages
contain the Ordo Divini Officit and an
amazing amount of ecclesiastical infor-
mation. Particulars are given of the
hierarchy, a full list of churches, schools
and religious orders, an alphabetical list
of the Catholic clergy and interesting
statistics.


A FRANK STATEMENT
of the real facts about tyres
Forty-eight years ago J. B. Dunlop perfected the pneumatic tyre. Since then Dunlop has not
only pioneered, but it has so perfected the technique of tyre building that all the world’s
land speed records have been made on Dunlop tyres.
W. A. BARTLETT, General Manager
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
★ The world’s speed record makers:
Eyston, Cobb and others, insist on Dunlop equip-
ment, because it gives them a maximum assurance
of safety, and of accomplishing their objective.
★ The enormous mass of knowledge gained by
Dunlop in successfully building tyres to withstand
these incredibly severe tests is utilised to build you
the finest tyres in the World, which give the great-
est possible non-skid tread mileage and the longest
casing life which can be built into a tyre.
★ Last year Dunlop introduced to Australia Weft-
less Cord Casings, after it had been proved under
every conceivable condition that this casing con-
struction is definitely superior. Weftless Cord con-
struction is used exclusively by Dunlop interests in
Australia.
★ The enthusiasm of 3127 Australian craftsmen
to uphold a great British tradition is focussed day
after day upon giving you a tyre that renders the
greatest degree of safety, comfort and economy.
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO.
LTD.
Weftless cord tyres
DUNLOP
m.
DUNLOP
PERDRIAU
CfoUiA^hJeat
TRIANCLE TREAD
Product of Dunlop Pardria
Product of Dunlop Pordnat
BRITISH AS THE FLAG
A S


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
i
tm
i
I
m :
n
i ygs •■-■,
i I
HI
iV-r-.'X
MS
&v
■
M
in
s»fc
SN
31&
NIW
i&l
PS***: ,a«yiw
N
■?Sv
t\
IB
2*
Hi
g
: .'-
P 5
m
m
n
>■■■■■■
■*i
gg£SSg&
' 13 \
X
IS
m
sT.
m
ie
m
■
«
s a <"
■
■ II
■
H
v'V
■
,
i n
.;;;. ■■
R 1
lf;r:I :
mm
Some Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars.
v Mie


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2922.
February 12, 1936.
CONDITIONAL IMMUNITY GUARANTEED.
"And you assure me, Dr. Eden, this treatment will ward off war?”
“Positively, Mr. Bull. It will ward it off or bring it on—one never knows with these new prophylactics.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 8797 J.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
PARKHILL ON ’PLANES.
The Commonwealth Government has not advanced
Australia by rejecting the British air-mail plan or by
entrusting Mr. Archdale Parkhill with the task of
attacking it.
The plan x has been under discussion for over a
year—ever since a Dutch passenger ’plane, flying from
London to Melbourne, cut 10 days off mail-’plane
schedule time. It aims chiefly at a 50 per cent,
saving on that time, a duplication of the
weekly services and a reduction of cost to the
public from Is. 6d. for a }oz. air-mail letter to
l|d. It proposes unity of control of the whole route,
which is now divided into three compartments —•
London to India, managed by Imperial Airways;
India to Singapore, Indian National Airways;
Singapore to Australia, Qantas Empire—with a
fourth, Australia to Maoriland, to be added and a
fourth authority in charge.
Mr. Archdale Parkhill prefers the three- or four-
compartment system. He thinks that Australia “con-
trols” the Cootamundra-Singapore route, and should
retain that “control,” because it is strategically as
well as commercially important. Australia does not
“control” the sea section, of course. The Dutch carry
more than two-thirds of the traffic over the northern
half, and defence of the section is left to the
British air squadrons at Singapore and the British
Navy. Our evidences of “control” consist of four land-
planes with an average speed-of 135 miles per hour,
which, fully loaded, can together carry 48 passengers,
and a very inadequate number of fighters, some
obsolescent, parked a couple of thousand miles away.
The fighters could not operate five hundred miles
from the Australian coast without coming down on
a foreign land base, and, in any case, could not reach
a foreign land base and return unaided.
Nobody is likely to argue against Australia and
Maoriland having each a fair share in the manage-
ment of the route from London to Auckland. Only
Parkhills could argue against control by a single
organisation under joint British-Dominion supervision.
Another part of the plan to which Mr. Parkhill
objects is the replacing of landplanes by seaplanes.
Most of the long-distance enterprises in operation—
Europe to South America, New York to South America,
London-Cape —are flown wholly or in part by
seaplanes. The China Clipper service, recently opened
across the North Pacific, is a seaplane service, and
the same types of machine are to be used on a larger
scale on the Atlantic run, which will be organised
within the next three years.
The reasons are twofold. The seaplane makes for
size and safety. The building of giant landplanes is
fraught with immense landing-gear difficulties which
limit the weight of the craft. There is no reasonable
limit to the size of flying-boats ; the British Aero-
nautical Research Committee has informed manufac-
turers that it can see “no insuperable obstacles to the
construction or flying of a boat of 200 tons.” And
the larger the seaplane, the safer and more comfort-
able it is. It can carry more fuel, thus having a
longer range than a comparable land-machine ; and
the bigger it is the more surely it will ride the ocean
in an emergency.
According to the bulletin of the British Overseas
Trade Department, the seaplanes which Imperial Air-
ways have ordered for the Australian route are two-
deckers, 114 ft. long, capable of carrying 32 passengers,
with sleeping berths for all. They will have a range
of 1500 miles, and the “maximum speed will not be
far short of 200 m.p.h.”
It is clear that their cruising speed will be high
enough to enable the promised schedule of seven days
from England to Sydney or Melbourne to be estab-
lished... .The distance is rather less than 12,000 miles,
or 80 flying hours at 150 m.p.h.
With night-flying this leaves a 50 per cent, margin
for refuelling, stops and delays caused by bad weather,
on a minimum-speed schedule.
Mr. Parkhill, however, turns from contemplating
his 135-m.p.h. landplanes to remark that this flying-
boat speed is “quite inadequate for a trunk service of
such importance.” He sees other objections, one being
that the introduction of seaplanes would necessitate
the preparation of a new seaplane route from Darwin
via the Gulf of Carpentaria and Townsville. That
surely would be a contribution to the defence of a
country which is never likely to be attacked aerially
except from the north. But perhaps the invaders will
be sportsmen, and, avoiding the Gulf and the east
coast, where under present conditions it would be
impossible to establish aerial sea-defence bases
quickly, will hasten to Darwin and destruction at the
hands of the 9.2 in. gun and the 60-odd men who
guard Australia’s northern gate there.
Of course it was a blunder to suggest the cutting
of the charge for London letters carried by air from
Is. 6d. to I+d. per half-ounce. That was bound to
annoy a Government which depends so much on
the G.P.O. surplus with which it ekes out its meagre
quota of taxation. Twopence is the minimum
Australian fee for land delivery of letters, though
the addressee live next door to the post office. Any
proposal for reduction is naturally viewed with alarm.
The Government at Canberra gave Qantas
Empire Airways £38,347 in subsidy in the first
half-year of the overseas service. It got back
£32,650 in postages, even with the limited mail
carriage. The British scheme would cost it another
£140,000 p.a., which would go to Imperial Airways
under a 15-year contract. Mr. Lyons cautiously agrees
that the carriage of all first-class mails by air is an
“attractive” objective, but he and his colleagues saw
the “difficulties, including finance,” and turned the
scheme down —though its cost would be less than
three times the subsidy paid to the League of Nations
every year for worse than nothing.
Some things stand out. Australia and Maoriland
should be shareholders in any unified organisation.
Divided control of an all-mail air route from England
would be just as insane as a similar policy in regard
to ship-mails over sections of the route. For over-
seas work seaplanes outstrip landplanes in utility,
both commercial and defensive. Internal mail services
should be developed separately from external services.
And aircraft should be built in Australia ; the sooner
the better.
Australia to Mr. Parkhill “is the second-greatest
flying country in the world.” Yet it has few
landing-grounds and no- extensive pilot-training
system—it costs about £6O for a pilot to get a license.
It is without radio beacons. It hasn’t a dozen fighting
’planes which could stand up to a modern enemy
squadron for ten minutes. Of course, it has Mr.
Parkhill; but as a defensive asset, even in a political
world where words are weapons, Mr. Parkhill can
scarcely be accounted effective.
HOW LYONS HELPED COLLIER.
Westralian Labor has a lot to thank Nationalist and
U.A.P. Commonwealth Governments for. When Mr.
Bruce was Prime Minister it wangled a special grant
of £400,000, and used most of it for tax-reduction,
which was of material assistance in winning another
general election. In Mr. Lyons’s time the flow of
benefits from Canberra —which has had the wind up
ever since the secesh referendum —has been almost
embarrassing.
Westralian wheat-farmers had a bad season in
1911 and another in 1914. In those days their State
Government had to find the money to help them.
Now the Commonwealth oppressor finds it all —a
bounty on acres ploughed, another on bushels grown,
a separate grant for those who have harvested little
or no grain, and a substantial share of the £12,000,000
to be raised for reduction of farmers’ debts. In other
days also Westralia had to provide all its road-money.
Last year it received for Federal-aid roads £473,400
out of £559,800 collected within Westlalia in petrol
duty. To Victoria went only £443,876 out of
£2,173,900 collected in petrol duty; to N. S. Wales,
£689,600 out of £2,386,700. In common with other
States, Westralia is also getting a fertiliser bounty,
help for growers of apples and oranges, and “a con-
tribution towards deficit-reduction” —all out of Com-
monwealth tax-revenue. Above all, it is receiving—
largely out of Commonwealth tax-revenue collected
in Victoria and N. S. Wales —a special grant of
£BOO,OOO, an advance of £200,000 on the special
grant it got in 1934-35.
In 1933-34, according to the Commonwealth Grants
Commission, Westralia received from Commonwealth
tax-revenue £2,290,000 (£3,000,000 will be topped
this year), and raised in local taxation only £1,835,800.
According to the same authority, its local taxes are
below the average for the States (“the lowest in Aus-
tralia in some years”), although it is in a much better
position to levy taxes than other States. It leads
in wealth-production per head: £5l 7s. sd. in 1933-34,
compared with £45 12s. lOd. in N. S. Wales and
£44 9s. Bd. in Victoria. Its principal product is gold,
which, as a result of monetary policy for which the
mineowners are in no way responsible, is now worth
£8 13s. 9d. Australian per fine ounce. In South Africa
half the gold premium is taken for the service of the
country, a fact which does not prevent British com-
panies owning Rand mines paying enormous divi-
dends. British companies operating on the Golden
Mile are paying less in Australian taxes, State and
Commonwealth, than in British taxes.
Before the price of gold began to soar, the
Commonwealth oppressor contributed to the revival
of Westralian goldmining by guaranteeing a loan of
£300,000 to the Wiluna Co. (now producing gold to
the value of £1,000,000 a year and making a mine profit
of £40,000 to £50,000 a month) and paying a gold
bonus. Another thing for which Westralian Labor is
indebted to it is an ample supply of loan money.
This Westralia used to raise in England, but when
the bottom fell out of the borrowing business there
it had to depend upon the Australian loan market.
To internal loans aggregating £66,513,000 Westralian
contributions totalled £873,000. But this year’s special
grant of £BOO,OOO is of greater immediate importance
in the constituencies than even the lashin’s of loan
money which Westralia has received from the
£66,513,000 towards which it subscribed £873,000, and
which it has been spending at the rate of £2,000,000
to £3,000,000 a year (the population is 450,000).
With this £BOO,OOO the Labor Government has
been able to restore all the salaries of Crown employees
(Ministers and members included) that were subjected
for five years to depression cuts. While percentage
reductions are still the rule in other States —and they
operate most harshly in the two States from which
Westralian Labor, thanks to the Commonwealth
oppressor, is drawing most of the easy money—pre-
depression rates of pay were restored in all the
Westralian Government departments as from January 1.
And the general election is to be held on February 15.
In the last Assembly Labor had 30 seats, the other
parties 20. The goldfields are solid for Labor, and
it is expected to retain its predominance in the North,
whose interest it has carefully cultivated ; but there
is considerable discontent with Labor rule in the
farming districts —where, it has been asserted by a
Legislative Council select committee, the distribution
of portion of the Commonwealth money has been
influenced by politics—and among the unemployed.
Lavish promises were made to the unemployed, but
they have been stung for 255., the price of A.W.U.
tickets, before they could get “emergency-relief” work.
And many may get even with the Government in the
only way open to them. However, there are eight
or ten seats in which Government employees are
strong, and it is confidently expected that these Gov-
ernment employees will remember the party that has
looked after them so well, thanks to its success in
biting the ear of the Commonwealth oppressor, with
which is incorporated the Federal octopus.
QUEENSLAND’S OLIGARCHY.
Our taxation departments have done a good deal to
remind the taxpayer of his lowly station in life. It
has remained for a Labor Government to produce
the genuine oligarchic article in the shape of a
semi-obsolete Railway Department thinly disguised
as a State Transport Board. Mr. Forgan Smith, now
registering statesmanship overseas at the taxpayer’s
expense, probably does not realise the serious posi-
tion into which its performances are leading his party.
Mr. Pease, his substitute, self-described as “the best
Minister of Lands that Queensland ever had,” does
not appear to possess the capacity for realising it.
The plain facts are that three civil servants,
headed by the Commissioner of Railways, have been
ordered to run road transport out of business in order
to establish a monopoly for the State railways, and that
some hundreds of thousands of Queensland citizens
are determined not to let them do so. Every day
makes it clearer that this is no mere party issue, but
a public revolt against bureaucratic abuse of executive
powers, conferred by legislative authority, which
ignores alike the basic planks of the Labor platform
and the fundamental principles of British justice.
Appointed under the pretext of co-ordinating trans-
port, the board is ruthlessly removing every obstacle
in the path of a complete railway monopoly.
The reason put forward is that the railways are
a public investment, and that motor road competi-
tion is interfering with the legitimate returns of such
an investment. That this is untrue is shown by the
Railway Department’s own figures. In 1915, when
the State railways had only 10,000 motor-users to
compete against, their gross revenue was £3,8 32,000.
In 1935 their gross revenue had risen to £7,068,196,
although they were competing against 100,000 motor-
users ; moreover, the railway tonnage carried had
increased by half a million. In the interval the rail-
ways had been relieved of £28,000,000 of their capital
cost, book-juggled to another fund, although the
public has not been deluded into the idea that they
are being run at a profit. The same interval had
served to enable £250,000 to be wrung out of motor-
users for road construction and maintenance and put
into general revenue.
The published “arguments” for strangulation of
road transport are about as sound as the farewell
outcry of Mr. Forgan Smith, to the effect that public
protests were being engineered by foreign oil interests
for the purpose of increasing sales. Arguments and
outcry have had small influence compared with the
effect produced by innumerable instances of over-
charges, delays, discourtesy, losses, misdelivery and
other uninviting features of Queensland’s railway
“service.” It has become clear to a very large number
of people of all grades in the community that some-
thing must be done, and dpne soon. The city
merchant realises that a railway monopoly would
hamper or destroy his country business. The country-
dweller and his wife have already found that they
have to pay more for the groceries and the children’s
boots since Bill the carrier went out of business on
account of having to pay £7OO a year for registering
his truck. Bill, his family, his friends and his
employers also hold strong views against a railway
monopoly. So do the Chambers of Commerce and
the R.A.C.Q. and the Commercial Motor Users’ Asso-
ciation and that very large section of any British
community which objects to being deprived of con-
veniences to which it knows it has a right, and which
automatically takes the side of any fellow who is
being given too rough a spin.
Were Mr. Forgan Smith here, it is safe to say
that this astute politician would be counting heads
by now and considering the demand for fair road-
rail competition on the basis of the fees paid in 1929.
Mr. Pease would be wise to do so —it might enable
him to describe himself also as “the best Acting
Premier that Queensland ever had.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Snub for Premier Stevens.
Premier Stevens made a profound impression on
U.A.P. editors by telling the Loan Council he would
balance his Budget in 1936-37. His brother-Premiers
—with the possible exception of Mr. Pease, who con-
siders himself “the best Minister of Lands that Queens-
land ever had” —were not impressed. So far from
joining in the editorial jubilation, the gentlemen from
Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania dourly
objected when Mr. Spooner, Mr. Stevens’s offsider,
invited the gathering to sanction a Sydney Water
Board loan of £1,000,000 the first instalment of
£15,000,000 which his Government coolly proposes to
borrow through the board for suburban sewerage
works, having, as it fancied, cleared the way by bur-
dening the general taxpayers with £11,450,000 of Water
Board liabilities.
“It’s driving a. hole through the Financial Agree-
ment!” Mr. Ogilvie said. Mr. Dunstan and Mr.
Butler spoke in the same strain ; and the three said
that N. S. Wales ought to be satisfied with £250,000.
Mindful of the huge share of Loan Council borrow-
ings already granted to N. S. Wales, even the mild
Mr. Casey, “on behalf of the Commonwealth, refused
to agree to any amount over £500,000.” In the
end Mr. Spooner had to be satisfied with £500,000
and to subscribe to a declaration that “the £500,000
must be taken into account when loan requirements
for 1936-37 are being considered.”
This endangers the whole plan for adding
£15,000,000 to the requirements of the Sydney Gov-
ernment. A decided snub for Mr. Stevens, and he
thoroughly deserved it.
— +
The Bourbonist Bureaucracy.
Bureaucratic methods never change. It doesn’t seem
long since Sydney’s William-street postmaster and an
assistant were held up near their office in broad day-
light and robbed for the second time. The booty on
the second occasion was £530, but what made the
thing memorable—to the public, at least —was the
fiendish nature of the assault on the assistant. Corro-
sive fluid was flung at his eyes, and he was left writh-
ing in agony on the road. Within 14 days he had
become totally blind.
Much was made of the affair in the news-
papers. After the trial and conviction of one
person, who was sentenced to 35 years’ imprison-
ment, the Government staged a public cere-
mony at which the then Postmaster-General an-
nounced that the blind man would be cared for to
the end of his days. He was given £lOOO and a
pension of £4 a week.
It might well have been thought that the circum-
stances of this second assault and robbery would sink
in and lead to a general change in departmental pro-
cedure wherever considerable sums have to be carried
through city streets. A general recourse to police
protection was indicated as necessary. A case which
has shocked Melbourne has shown that it has not
been availed of.
On the afternoon of January 31 an 18-year-old lad,
with a messenger 64 years old to guard him, left the
office of the State Comptroller of Stamps, Queen-street,
for the Bank of Australasia with the day’s takings,
£1758, in a bag. This he carried into a taxi waiting
outside the Little Lonsdale entrance to the office, and
placed between his feet. The messenger followed, and
was about to enter the taxi when two men, who also
had a car waiting in “Little Lon,” interfered. They
grabbed the bag from the boy, and one shot the
messenger through the head ; they then bolted to their
car, in which a confederate was at the wheel, with
the engine running. In this —stolen, of course—they
made good their escape. The messenger, who was
a returned soldier, was borne to hospital dying.
In all three cases, two in Sydney and one in
Melbourne, the departmental methods had obviously
been studied by the bandits at their leisure, and their
modus operandi was much the same. No, Red-tape
and Sealing-wax never learn.
<3»
Easy Come, Easy Go.
Last week was a wonderful week for the Federal
Ministry. First came the announcement by its statis-
tician that the favorable overseas trade balance
for the first half of the current fiscal year was nearly
£13,000,000 Australian, a gain of more than 100 per
cent, over the figures for the same period of 1934-35.
Then the Treasury blithely issued • revenue figures
showing customs receipts for seven months at
£24,719,263, having been underestimated by £2,640,000.
The excess has driven taxpayers to remember
the Government’s refusal to reduce the burden of
emergency and “temporary” taxation imposed during
the depression.
More than £9,000,000 will be levied by the sales
tax alone this year. This was a desperation tax im-
posed to balance the Budget when it seemed almost
certain that Australia would be unable to meet its
commitments. But until forced by public opinion the
Federal politicians will continue to exact from industry
this oppressive and irritating tax.
The Treasury at Canberra has developed a habit
of affixing to financial statements a note which
conveys the impression that the final surplus will be
smaller than the figures actually indicate. Recently
one of these notes pointed out that the surplus shown
was misleading, in that the expenditure for the period
under review was pro rata much less than that pro-
vided for the full financial year. It was not men-
tioned that the revenue from certain taxes was pro
rata very much less than the prospective final yield.
This kind of bluff is injurious to the prestige of the
Treasury.
As for splashing it up, look at some of these items
under “Miscellaneous Services” in the current
estimates:
Contribution to League of Nations £54,000, repre-
sentation Imperial Economic Committee £4427, Royal
Commission on Wheat Industry £3OOO (making a total
of more than £23,000), visit overseas of Com-
monwealth Ministerial delegation £3OOO (making a
total of £15,300), Ministerial visit to New Guinea £l5O
(results nil), expenses on Westralian secession case £2610
(making a total of £ 19,000-odd), National Travel Associ-
ation £20,000, contribution to Imperial agricultural
bureaux £10,227.
More than £500,000 is to be spent on an administrative
building at Canberra, and plans have been prepared
for a Government hospital at Canberra costing
£93,000, with many times more beds than the average
number of patients at the present hospital. And
£lOO,OOO a year for ten years is to be distributed
among local-governing bodies to encourage them to
borrow —as if 90 p.c. of them needed any encourage-
ment! Anything rather than reduction of taxes!
——— *
The Basic Wage of Brains.
The Commonwealth Government requires an assistant
research officer. He is required to hold a
university degree in science of a particular and
extremely important type —and the salary is less than
£6 a week.
And a trifle over £5 a week is offered for a
laborer in the Commonwealth Patents Office. At
least, the Commonwealth doesn’t call him a laborer ;
it calls him an assistant. This man or woman is also
expected to possess a university degree in science, and
to look back on experience in radio and thermionic
and photoelectric devices.
To put it briefly, the Commonwealth offers to
men of exceptional ability and exceptional determi-
nation, men who have to be fanatics at their work
even to have got where they are, the wage it pays
to an f.a.q. mechanic who has learned his trade by
four years of apprenticeship.
If private enterprise were to make such offers
as the Commonwealth has blazoned forth in its
“Gazette” members of Parliament on both sides of
the House would denounce it as rank parsimony.
And probably within a week a trade-union would
be formed and the scientists would apply to a sym-
pathetic Arbitration Court for a salary which was
not a disgrace to the people who offered it.
-♦
A Useful National Enterprise.
The Commonwealth Department of Health has added
to its chain of national health laboratories a much-
needed unit at Darwin. There are others at Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), Port Pirie (S.A.), Bendigo (Vic.),
Launceston (Tas.), Toowoomba, Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns (Q.).
Each laboratory is under the care of a highly
trained medical specialist, with one or more skilled
assistants. In addition to acting as observation
stations for the early detection of quarantinable
diseases, they also provide a high-grade service in
clinical pathology and bacteriology for the assistance
of local practitioners, and conduct systematic investi-
gation into local disease conditions. They carry stocks
of the numerous products of the Commonwealth
Serum Laboratories at Melbourne.
The interest and sympathy of W. A. Watt enabled
this valuable national service to be commenced some
15 years ago, and Massy Greene, now a Senator,
carried on the good work.
«
Canberra’s Clerk-fortress.
If any simple-minded taxpayer has cherished the
delusion that the surplus being extracted from his
pockets by the Government at Canberra is to be
used to mitigate future extractions, he may give up
the idea. A large part is to go in the erection of a
vast clerk-fortress on the celebrated foundations which
have long awed strangers as an apparent attempt to
reproduce the Cretan labyrinth. Built at a cost of
£60,000, they were abandoned 10 years ago after
a row with the contractor. They are to be used “as
far as possible.”
The resulting stately pile is to be filled with clerks
and bureaucrats of various kinds now scattered about
Melbourne and Sydney. Collecting them will in itself
be another expensive job, as the Commonwealth has
to guarantee the cost of their houses on a liberal
basis, and pay all costs of removal of their effects and
transfer of themselves, their families and dependants.
In addition, accommodation must be provided for
them at Canberra in time for their arrival. Before
the new castle of bureaucracy on Molonglo’s banks
is built, equipped and manned, it will have made a
large hole in Mr. Casey’s humorously-named “surplus.”
As a reproductive asset, it must, of necessity, be
a dead failure from the start. But as an enduring
monument to the scorn of Federal Ministers for the
out-of-date principle of using expanded revenues for
the reduction of taxation and the development of
industry, it will stand forth nobly in the years to
come.
♦
Lads for Sea Service.
“8.A.8.”: An attempt to help a youngster of 16 to join
the profession of the sea leads me to differ from Mr.
Lyons’s recent statement that enough opportunities
already exist for sea-minded Australian lads.
Only one Australian company indentures appren-
tices. The Navigation Act fixes the number of appren-
tices and/or deckboys at three for any Australian
vessel, whatever the tonnage. Naturally, companies
don’t want supernumerary boys to feed and pay. Four
years’ deck service in vessels on runs of at least 1000
miles between terminal ports is needed before an
aspirant to the bridge can sit for second mate’s ticket,
whether he begins as boy or apprentice.
If Mr. Lyons were to subsidise, say, 100 positions
a year for deckboys at, say, £6O each, he would be
doing valuable service for both the merchant service
and the navy if deep-sea time throughout were made
a condition and the selection of applicants left to
the shipping companies. After 12 months a boy can
qualify as ordinary seaman.
—
Cabinet and Executive Council.
“A departure from established practice took place
when a meeting of the Federal Executive Council was
held at Parliament House instead of at Government
House.” Thus a daily-paper report, and, with the
idea of dispelling any fears that may have been
occasioned, a Minister retired from business holds
forth:
The difference between Executive Council meetings and
Cabinet meetings in the Commonwealth and the States is
understood by few.
The Cabinet has no legal status, although its membership
is provided for in the different Constitutions, all of which
are written. Ministers, both portfolio-holders and honoraries,
comprise the body, which meets regularly, with the Premier
or Prime Minister as chairman. They discuss administrative
matters and decide upon policy, each Minister initialling his
own approving minute that must go before the Executive
Council. A meeting of the Executive Council, with the
Governor-General or Governor as chairman, is held a few
days afterwards. Then all the Ministers affix their initials
in rotation, and the Governor or Governor-General affixes
his under a big rubber-stamp indicating “Approved.”
The King’s representative rarely or never initiates any
discussion —at least, that is my experience. Care is very
naturally taken to discuss with him at an earlier stage any
item with which he might not be in full accord. Once only
in my time did a Governor hold up a minute, and then the
item was of such a trumpery nature that he quickly concluded
that he had better apply the closure to himself. Executive
Council minutes finally appear in the “Government Gazette”
by Royal Command, and then they are law—unless, as is
the case now and again, one or more happen to be ultra
vires.
Before George I.’s time the King was usually chairman
of Cabinet meetings. But George I. was fresh from Hanover,
and he had little English, so the position gradually drifted
into the present practice or custom, with Kings and Cabinets
and Governors and Cabinets. But the Cabinet in Britain
has no specified legal status. The British Constitution is, of
course, unwritten.
♦
The North Gets Going.
According to the figures published in the last
quarterly summary of Australian statistics, Queens-
land would appear to be leaving the two larger States
standing.
While N. S. Wales has nearly half and Victoria
more than half its population in the capitals, only
304,000 out of 967,000 Queenslanders live in Bris-
bane. With a population 650,000 smaller, Queensland
records nearly as many births as Victoria and an
excess of nearly 4000 arrivals over departures —in the
two larger States departures exceeded arrivals.
The Queensland death-rate is slightly below the
average of all Australia, the Queensland marriage-
rate above the average. In infant mortality the
Queensland figure is bettered only by S.A.
Out of 114,000,000 sheep in the Commonwealth
Queensland owns 21,000,000— considerably more than
any State but N.S.W., and in wool-production it sur-
passes every State but N.S.W. In cattle it heads the list
with 6,000,000, as against Victoria’s 2,000,000 and
N.S.W.’s (last year) 3,361,000. In pigs and horses it is
well up, and a long way in advance proportionally to
its human population. Dairy-produce figures show
it only 10 per cent, behind Victoria and N.S.W.; its
gold output dwarfs that of N. S. Wales, and in produc-
tion of other metals and minerals it is well to the fore.
Judging by these figures, it seems up to N.S.W.
and Victoria to put some pep into their efforts before
the sturdy Norsemen assume command of the
Commonwealth.
♦
Mass Production of Health.
The British Board of Education has taken an
important step in planning an elaborate scheme for
the physical education of school-children and young
people—a scheme which the Commonwealth would
do well to study with the aim of adoption.
English-speaking countries have, for a century
past, concentrated their efforts on the mental side of
their future citizens, while neglecting the education
of their bodies —and it is-upon their bodies that
national and industrial and hygienic safety depends.
While Britain and the U.S.A. and the Dominions
have been content to turn out each a mere handful of
men and women raised to athletic perfection by inten-
sive training, they have left the unpromising athlete
to atrophy into a weakling and an unemployable and
a C 3 man and a filler of hospitals.
The British scheme will reach such youngsters.
They will receive physical education in the real mean-
ing of the word ; they will not have to face ridicule
because they play a game indifferently. They will
be treated just as they are treated in their schools
for mental development, with special courses to
The Scandinavian countries, as in many other
matters, were the first to reveal sanity in physical
training. For generations the Swedish youngster has
had his body watched and exercised under the direc-
tion of experts, until to-day the Swedes are probably
the most perfectly built race in the world.
Other countries have followed suit. Germany
and Italy and Russia, in accordance with their ideal
of making lands fit for Neros, have imposed wide-
spread and intensive forms of physical culture upon
their children. Czechoslovakia has done the same.
Visitors to Prague have stood astounded at the
wonderfully built young men and women who take
part in the Sokols —not picked athletes,. but average
youths from organisations of all descriptions.
The money spent in turning out an A 1 nation is
an insurance premium against which there can be
no argument.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Physician”: We were passing a line
of tented cars at a Q. North Coast sea-
side resort when out ran
a retriever pup with a
very short pair of shorts
in his mouth, followed
by a small boy’s voice:
“Hey, Millie, Tiger’s got
away with y’r pants.”
Round the corner of the
tent' came a girl of 17 or
18, sketchily attired in a
bath towel, and made
good time after Tiger.
Before the tyke had been
overhauled, Millie’s
towel had ceased to be
even a sketch ; it was
draped round her left
arm to give more free-
dom to her legs. The
half-dozen families along
the way took the keenest
interest in the chase, and
there were cheers when
Millie returned to her
tent with her retrieved
shorts. The most curious
thing was that we saw
the young lady that
night at the local dance,
all dressed up and very
disturbed because her
dress would ruck up and
show her left knee.
•fc * #
“A Iph a” : Although
nobody seems to have
given Henry George the
tip about the Howey holding in Collins-
streef, Melbourne (B. 29 /1 / ”36), his dis-
ciples are well on the seent. Among the
centenary publications in Victoria was a
single-tax pamphlet', illustrated with a
map, in which the boundaries and values
of the central Melbourne homesteads
were exhaustively analysed. The Howeys
came in for their share of publicity.
* * * *
“Findy”: I recently enjoyed Charles
Laughton’s portrayal of Breadfruit Bligh
in a film version of “The Mutiny on the
Bounty.” An excellent piece of work;
but my ears waggled protestingly when
Laughton went into the fo’c’sle, where
the crew was holding a mild carousal,
and demanded to know the reason for
“this jamboree Obviously, Bligh never
heard such a word. The Oxford Dic-
tionary lists it as “American slang, of
doubtful origin,” and gives 1872 as the
year of its first recorded use. The em-
ployment of the term to denote a massed
concourse of Boy Scouts is as recent as
1920. When I carried a broomstick we
called such a gathering a “rally.”
* * * *
“G.M.”: Among the younger Aus-
tralian-Chinese it is firmly believed that
Ho Hung, commander-in-chief of the
Chinese Red Army, is Australian-born.
Fortified by stories from Australian-
Chinese who return from visits to the
Flowery Land, they tell that Ho Hung
was born and brought up in Port Adel-
aide. Enlisting in the A.I.F. in 1914, he
went through the horrors of Gallipoli
and Palestine without sustaining any
damage, and acquired much military
knowledge. Always politically-minded,
he left Australia shortly after being re-
patriated, did a lot of Communistic pro-
paganda work around Hangkow, and
finally drifted towards the middle of
Asia to command an army of over a
million men. Ho Hung is no myth;
many a time his picturesque personality
has been written up by travelling authors;
but not one of these has suggested his
Australian origin.
* * * *
" “D.8.K.”: “Jurgen” (B. 5/2/’36) says
that the only stuff to equal the Greek
liquid dynamite mastik is the Serbian
slovitz. I wonder if he ever tasted vodka.
After a year or so in Greece, during
which period I had ample time to become
acquainted with mastik at sundry village
festas, our R.A.F. squadron joined up
with Denikin in the Caucasus. The
White Army appeared to thrive on
Russia’s national beverage ; its taste is
about on a par with the Greek tipple as
described by “Jurgen.” The results, how-
ever, are even more deadly. It was sold
in very small bottles, no larger than per-
fume containers, and two of these under
the chest of a Tartar or Cossack in those
revolutionary days were quite liable to
“Step on it, y'r reverence! I Want to get out to the links to try my new
niblick
result in a swift settling of arguments by
revolver or hand-grenade. Writer has
good cause to remember a vodka-laden
sentry on a White armored train who,
one pitch-dark night, fired first and chal-
lenged afterwards.
“El V.”: Bah! “Jurgen” is scarcely
worthy to call himself an Australian if he
thinks mastik is a real drink ; or slivovitz,
which he has robbed of a syllable, either.
Let him have a shot or two of Turkish
douziko and he will soon learn why we
could not' push the Turks off the Penin-
sula. Douziko is mastik for grown-ups.
You take it raw out of a bottle about
the size of a Holbrook’s flask. Your
heart stops a beat; your throat contracts.
A trickle of sulphuric acid runs down
inside and you feel your internals en-
gaged in a wrestling match which would
do credit to Tom Lurich. Then a blue,
undulating mist obscures the landscape
and you find yourself fighting three gen-
darmes for the bottle. This is the best
way for a real man to enjoy it. But if
you are weak inside, you can get nearly
as much sensation by giving an Istambul
taxi-driver a spot and then commanding
him to drive you down a main street. I
know. I’ve tried both methods.
* * * *
“Dipso”: “Maltworm” (B. 15/1 /’36) is
hardly correct in his assertion that no
poet has ever dealt with beer in serious
verse, for I have vivid and beautiful
memories of some of “Bellerive’s” mus-
ings on the subject. Strong men
in lonely places have been moved to
tears by his writings. I myself have
derived much comfort from “Bellerive’s”
homely verse in some of life’s darkest
hours. lam leaving one for him at the
corner pub.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: With the unleashing
of a fresh batch of 66 doctors from Syd-
ney Uni. the tally of practitioners regis-
tered in N.S.W. has soared up to 3300 —
a record. Some 700 of the total are
abroad or eating husks in other States.
Still, 2,600,000-odd people do not need
2600 doctors; the profession is over-
crowded. Mass production, together with
the inroads made on private practice by
hospitals and clinics of all sorts, have
brought many a capable fellow to the
breadline and engendered a spirit of com-
petitive wrangling. Most doctors are
poorer than the public believes. English
figures, compiled two years ago, showed
their average gross incomes to be round
£4OO, and it’s likely that the same
figures would hold good in Australia.
French doctors, more canny than those
of our race, before settling down to prac-
tise do not count heads in their chosen
districts ; they attempt to assess the pros-
perity of any given town —how many
good shops, how many cars, how many
flourishing jewellers and so on. They
even visit the local cemeteries, and note
whether the monumental work is expen-
sive and the grass plots and gardens
well tended. We don’t go to such lengths
in Australia. In the meantime one can’t
help recalling Abernethy’s remark when
he walked into a crowded lecture-room
at Bart.’s: “My God, gentlemen, what-
ever is to become of you all?”
H: * * *
“Uramao”: Counsel was making little
headway in his cross-examination of
Henare. “You say you called on accused.
What did he say?” Opposing counsel
objected to the question, and hot pas-
sages were exchanged before his Honah
interposed and ruled that counsel was
quite entitled to pursue his line of cross-
examination. Turning to Henare, who
had been looking on with a whimsical
expression during the legal powwow,
counsel reiterated his question. “What
did accused say when you called at his
place?” “He weren’t at home,” languidly
replied the witness.
“Ex-P.8.1.”: Some Diggers have re-
tained their war souvenirs (B. 5/2/’36),
notably one of my acquaintance, who
has a German light machine-gun. He
is still reticent as to how it was smuggled
out of France. A lot of souvenirs found
their way to pawnshops and second-hand
shops during the depression. Among
articles I have noticed for sale in city
windows are two pickelhaubes, a Uhlan’s
helmet, several soft field-service caps,
three German “coal-scuttle” steel helmets
and several of ours, two Iron Crosses, a
trench periscope, a German telescopic
machine-gun sight, German bayonets
and trench knives, and an almost com-
plete set of German infantry equipment,
including the cowhide pack. My own
Zeiss glasses, a souvenir of Delville
Wood, are viewed with envy on my in-
frequent visits to Randwick.
“Morita”: Probably the most
cherished war-time keepsake was the
Fritz pre-war helmet that practically dis-
appeared after 1916. After passing one
of these on to my youthful heirs,
I had to stop them potting at it with an
air-rifle. Next it went to a Diggers’
picnic, and, after being used as a beer-
stein, came home again only because
one reveller was too blotto to know he
had it on. Finally, it occurred to me
that a visiting Prussian civilian might be
interested in it, so I polished it up and
carted it into the office. There was
genuine admiration in his eyes as he
viewed it—more than we could get out
of gazing at a cartload of dilapidated
Anzac Stetsons.
* * * *
“Bala Hissar”: I agree with “El V.”
(B. 5/2/’36) that Kipling never drew Kim
from Beattie. The latter was a police
wallah, while Kim went into the intelli-
gence section of the Indian “political”
branch —the two are
poles apart. More
likely Kipling returned
to Warburton Sahib,
the Durani aristocrat,
some of whose charac-
teristics he put into
Youghal, of the police,
in an early short story.
Warburton, with his
mother, the wife of one
of the Amir’s chief
Ministers, was
smuggled out of
Afghanistan with Pol-
lock’s returning expedi-
tion from Kabul in the
far past'. Robert War-
burton, of the Gunners,
sneaked the Durani
wife from under her
husband’s nose, and
how he managed it or
kept her whereabouts
secret no one outside
the family knows to
this day. Later they
married and had a son,
who became a famous
“political” on the N.W.
Frontier. His stepfather
did well by the Durani,
and he rose to emi-
nence in the secret ser-
vice. As “Button Sahib” he was a terror
to native criminals and conspirators from
one end of India to the other, and, like
his half-brother, died full of years and
honor in the ’nineties.
“Sansi”: “El V.” slips when he de-
scribes Kim—why put the name in
italics since it is only an abbrevation of
the English name Kimball?—as “adopted
by a native lady.” At the opening of the
story Kim is dwelling with his dead
father’s low-caste native mistress and get-
ting most of his tucker by cadging it
from native neighbors. An excellent
guardian his, no doubt, but far from
what the casual reader would gather from
the phrase “native lady.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A full-stop has been put,
presumably, to a long-drawn-out cheque
case which has dodged about among the
courts for two years. Rex Wallman, an
Adelaide lawyer, had a legacy for a
client, but the postman delivered it to
someone in the same district of nearly
the same name. The recipient opened an
account at the Savings Bank of S.A. with
the money, and innocently spent most
of it before the mistake was discovered.
Wallman claimed a refund from the bank.
(1) The local Court gave judgment in his
favor ; (2) the Supreme Court of S.A.
confirmed it on appeal; (3) the High
Court overruled them, and decided for
the bank ; and (4) the Privy Council has
now refused leave to Wallman to appeal
further.
FATHER WILLIAM.
“You are old, Billy Blazes, there isn’t a
doubt,”
Said Joseph—“a little bit old.
But more gladly than ever we booted you out
We welcome you back to the fold.”
“Let bygones be bygones. There’s nothing
to fret
About,” said the Sage with a grin.
“I’m ready as you to forgive and forget
And my cuticle never was thin.”
“You are rich in experience, wisdom and wit,
And you pack a redoubtable punch—
Rare assets,” said Joseph, “I frankly admit
In all of the rest of the bunch.”
“Too right,” said the Sage as he smoothed his
scant hair
And straightened his billycock hat,
“And if you’d said something more sweeping
than ‘rare’
I’d be certainly with you in that.”
“You are old, William Morris, a trifle antique;
Yet your tongue is still potent to sway,
And men notice,” said Joseph, “whenever you
speak
You have something worth hearing to say.”
“I have dope,” said the Sage as he drew off
his gloves,
“For all classes and sorts, in all keys.
Mellifluous words that would fascinate doves,
Harsh yells that would rattle bargees.”
“Since the day that you took at my bidding
your hook,
I confess we’ve been missing you sore;
But, Billy, although you can talk like a book,”
Said Joseph, “don’t write any more.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Becks”: According to a cable Maori-
land Labor Ministers have decided to
share the contents of their pay envelopes
with other members of the party. Let
them do so by all means, but is it neces-
sary to refer to such contents, as the
“S. M. Herald” does, as “honoraria”?
Dictionary usage notwithstanding, I sug-
gest that the use of the “a” plural in
this and kindred words is uncalled for,
ugly, pedantic and altogether out of
date. It should be confined to mausolea
and musea or stuck away in scrap alba
with dried chrysanthema.
* #
“Keg”: The tea-makers of France
were little better than those of Egypt (B.
29 /1 / ’36). My first and second experi-
ences were the same in French villages
—I never ventured on a third. The sign
“Tea —Cafe au Lait” lured me in. I
hoped for hot scones, a good cup of tea
and a smoke. Madame would receive
one’s order, bow and take down from the
shelf a jar of suspicious-looking liquid.
She would pour a quantity into a sauce-
pan, heat and serve; it was a devil’s
“Oh, but Parker does it at my wish , dear. The fumes give me such
beautiful memories of Edgar.”
brew. As far as I could learn, the tea
was made in the ordinary way and run
off into the jar ; boiling water was added
to the mixture as long as it was possible
to raise a color. Tea was very expen-
sive and could not be wasted.
* * * *
‘Process”: There must have been
some frantic mining in the process-block
dumps of the long ago during the royal
funeral week. Pictures appeared in the
Australian dailies that were new at good
Queen Victoria’s passing and second-
hand when Edward VII. joined his
fathers. In one illustration, purporting to
depict the crowd passing the bier or
George V., the clothing of the crowd
the women especially, marked the period
as that of the early century. Also the
sentries at the catafalque were Gurkhas.
It is on record that a party of these
troops, in London when King Edward
VII. died, were accorded special permis-
sion to take their turn at this honorable
duty. * *
* * * *
“Bel Ami”: Cables about the Egyptian
trouble reveal the fact that Cairo
possesses an institution known as the
Sheiks’ College. The need for technical
education of the sort has long been
apparent in Australia, and it is surpris-
ing that a progressive community like
ours should permit itself to be beaten by
mere Gyppos. Of course, the other civili-
sations are in just as bad a way. Even
Hollywood itself does not grant a degree
or even a diploma to duly qualified
sheiks.
* * * *
“Bluey”: The first thing I would im-
press on bathers who have suffered from
contact with “Portuguese men-o’-war”
{alias “bluebottles” or “stingers”) is to
keep under water. Once you let the
air get at a part which has been encircled
by a tentacle, that sting is like a photo-
graphic plate which has been exposed to
the light—it’s developed. At odd times
a momentary exposure to the air is neces-
sary to let the subject know he (or she)
has been stung. That is when the pain
starts in earnest. Getting the part under
water, and keeping it submerged, the
stingee needs to rub all suspected parts
with mud or sand. The theory is that
the soft grains of mud and coarser grains
of sand rub all the minute stings out of
the wound. Personally, I have proved
to my own satisfaction, both with chil-
dren and hoary adults, that the sting when
treated thus amounts to nothing and the
pain is gone in less than a minute.
* * *
“Ichabod Crane”: Most people are
familiar with the raw apprentice who is
sent out by the work-
shop humorist for a tin
of elbow-grease, a left-
handed screwdriver or
a can of striped paint,
but a truly rural varia-
tion of the ancient gag
was put over at my
little bush school the
other day. An obvious newchum
appeared at the door. “Please, Mr.
Crane, Mr. Legrope asked me to ask
you to ask the children if they’d seen a
red poley bullock along the road with
a rope round his horns.” I looked round
interrogatively. There was a moment of
stunned silence; then an experienced
dairy farmer of 12 summers coldly said,
“A poley bullock ain’t got no horns.”
“Uco”: “Tooley St.” (B. 5/2/’36)
waxes satirical because the steamer
called by radio to Pitcairn Island
to pick up urgent mail was handed
only two letters, and throws a brick
at the islanders for being more intent
upon barter than anything else. But
“House seems frightfully quiet”
“ Doesn't it? Dad's at Palm Beach arid mum's at the Mountains — I'll
be here by myself all the week-end.”
it should be remembered that these
fleeting visits are their sole opportunity
of trade with the outside world. Charles
Chauvel, who spent some time on Pit-
cairn film-making three or four years
ago, had a word to say on the subject:
To the steamboat passenger it seems
that a hungry attack is being made by
these motley-looking islanders. Even after
these passengers have feasted upon the
most delicious oranges and juicy mangoes
freshly added to their menu, they will
often hastily join in the chorus which
condemns these lonely people as “the beg-
gars of the Pacific.” Yet these “beggars”
gave us of their best, each family con-
tributing generously towards our comfort
without thought of reward.
% * :I<
“Casey”: Some of these Irish names
certainly look much more imposing and
must sound more mellifluous in the
native tongue than in the equivalents
which the careless Sassenach has given
them. Many of the reference books
which deal with the present governing
bodies of the Irish Free State give both
variants, and it is interesting to com-
pare some of them. For instance, the
Governor-General is Buckley in Eng-
lish ; in Irish’ he is Buachalla. De
Valera’s Vice-President is an O’Kelly—
O Ceallaigh to his countrymen. Among
minor officials I note a McDunphy (Eng-
lish version), whose name should really
be spelled Macdonnchadha. And Hogan,
I learned, is merely an English corrup-
tion of Oh-Ogain, though I cannot say
how that is pronounced or what is the
precise value of the accent. I went
through the whole list to see if I could
find a Murphy, and was rewarded. The
Irish for him is O Murchadha!
* * * *
“Biltong”: Several Australian news-
papers referred to the opponents of
Richardson’s cricketers at Kimberley as
“Griquas,” which is about as misleading
as it would be to call white Maorilanders
“Maoris.” The Griquas, of course, are
a half-caste race, a cross between the
pioneering Boers and the Hottentots, and
probably one of the very few half-caste
races which have maintained their iden-
tity without any further admixture for
a century or more. Griqualand West
was their original abiding place, but
when the diamond fields broke out and
Britain annexed the country the Cape
Government shifted the Griquas, or the
great bulk of them, to that part of the
Transkei which borders on Natal and
was henceforth to be known as Griqua-
land East. One Adam Kok was their
chief ; his name survives in Kokstad, the
chief town of the territory. Liberal
grants of potential farms were made to
Kok and his followers in their new home,
but sooner or later most of these were
sold to white men for various equivalents
—a few cases of gin in some instances.
A comparatively landless person nowa-
days, the Griqua nevertheless considers
himself a cut above the Kafir on account
of the drop of white blood in his far-
back pedigree. Many are good workers,
with more initiative and adaptability
than the outright black ; but more are
inclined to shiftlessness, and their
numbers seem to be on the decline.
* * * *
“Tellisford”: It is seldom the home-
liness of a place-name, as in the case of
Streaky Bay (B. 5/2/’36), that makes resi-
dents discontented with it', but cases are
numerous in which a change is sought
so that sinister associations may be for-
gotten. In England there is a village
called Roadj where Constance Kent mur-
dered her infant half-brother in the ’six-
ties. After the notoriety attached to the
crime had annoyed the inhabitants for 30
or 40 years they decided to alter the spell-
ing of the place ; it is Rode nowadays.
Which recalls a good story of Palmer-
ston. When he was Prime Minister a
deputation from Rugeley (Staffordshire)
—where a horrible poisoning case had
sent a murderer, suspected of several
more, to the gallows—waited on him to
ask permission to change the name of
their burg. Palmerston professed sym-
pathy and, with a touch of dry humor,
suggested that they could use his own
name for the rechristening if they cared
to. They didn’t, the poisoner’s name
having been Palmer. Rugeley is still
Rugeley.
$ % * *
“1.C.5.”: “Cutchery Sahib” (B.
22 /1 / ’36) is evidently unaware that
persons sentenced in India to transpor-
tation for life or for a term of years are
no longer sent to the Andamans. Cer-
tain large central gaols in each presi-
dency or province have been designated
“transportation gaols” for long-sentence
men. Furthermore, crossing the ocean is
no longer regarded as degrading to any but
the most narrowly orthodox high-caste
Hindus. Many who have visited Europe
this century have refused to undergo
even the mildest penances for readmis-
sion to the caste, and have not suffered
thereby.
Hs * * *
“Snip”: Note that the English word
“gore” (B. 5/2/’36) not only means a
triangular strip of land, but a similarly-
shaped piece of cloth much used in dress-
making and tailoring. At one time it
was my agonising job to go over the
copy of several lady fashion-writers, and
the word, together with others like
“shirred,” is “photographically lined on
the tablets of my mind,” as Gilbert sings.
* * * *
“Flimsy”: The statement (B. 5/2/’36)
that half a pound Commonwealth note
is legal tender for 10s. reminds me that
there was a time in the Queensland out-
back when, post-office orders not always
being accessible, half-notes were often
sent in payment in this way. It
was also the custom where registra-
tion was inconvenient to sfend one
half of a note by one mail and the other
by a later one. Writer has an imperish-
able memory of receiving a Bank of Eng-
land £5 note in this fashion as a tip when
a boy at school, the fattest piece of bak-
sheesh he ever had the luck to encounter.
“Kwakprak”: “Bob Sawyer” (B.
29/1/’36) speaks wisely in suggesting a
Government-paid resident M.O. for
Lord Howe Island. Only those who have
lived out of the reach of medical aid
realise what the real need for it means
when accident or sudden serious illness
arrives. From the viewpoint of a par-
ticular kind of scientifically-minded
doctor—one with something of the out-
look of Wood-Jones, who wrote that fas-
cinating textbook on coral-growths from
his sojourn at Cocos Keeling—no more
attractive job could be imagined. Given
that kind of man, something good might
well be added to the world’s knowledge
or the world’s literature. To him it
would be no “billet,” but a gift from
the gods.
THE POINT AT ISSUE.
“Swordfish have almost no nerves, according to
Zane Grey, and do not suffer agony as we under-
stand it. Also, they are really good eating and
fetch a high price in America.”
Swordfish are nerveless things, or very nearly,
According to the estimable Zane,
Who speaks with an authority that’s clearly
His due who’s yanked so many from the
main.
They’re pretty well insensible to pain;
They undergo with nonchalance complete
The course of being hooked and played and
slain,
And, what is more, they’re excellent to eat.
Foxes, I’ve heard it argued quite sincerely,
Enjoy a scamper over hill and plain,
Matching their wits determinedly and cheerly
Against the hounds in grim pursuit that
strain,
And seeking safety in s®me earth or drain
Or other inaccessible retreat.
But —here’s the difference —you can’t main-
tain
Bold Reynard’s fit for anyone to eat.
Is swordfish-catching cruel? Well, when it’s
merely
For so-called sport and glory, ’tis in vain
To think some worthy souls won’t frown
severely
Upon it, treating with entire disdain
The plea that monsters of the deep remain
Impervious to torture. But ’twere meet
To set the angler free from blame and bane,
Provided that his catch is good to eat.
The Yanks, it’s indicated, prize it dearly,
And rank it highly as a table treat.
Come, Zane, a chunk!—to settle straight and
sheerly
Whether your favorite fish is good to eat.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


e^A;v
m
20 Yorl'6
10 for 9 d
J. 855
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS./
m
m
is#>
*
■
MSKk
THIS GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Hughes has been taken bacK into the
Ministry. He was dismissed for writing
a book which appeared when the Gov-
ernment was committing the country to
economic sanctions against Italy, and
which contained the sentence “Economic
sanctions are either an empty gesture or
war.” He now believes in “sanctions —
other than military.” Three cheers for
principle, and a “tiger” for expediency!
Stevens came away from the other
Loan Councillors at Canberra with a flea
in his ear. He had asked the other
gentlemen to approve of the Sydney
Water Board raising £1,000,000 as part
of his Government’s great plan to trans-
fer £11,450,000 of unproductive Water
Board debt to the taxpayers, and get the
board to spend £3,000,000 p.a. of loan
money for five years. The other gentle-
men fell heavily on the scheme, and cut
Stevens down to £500,000, after mention-
ing that £250,000 ought to be enough.
The argument will be renewed at later
meetings, when the Stevens Government
will need to remove a very, decided im-
pression among other parties to the
Financial Agreement that it’s not playing
the game.
Only Pease, Forgan Smith’s deputy,
supported Stevens’s proposal for getting
round the Financial Agreement by bor-
rowing through the Water Board. The
explanation is that the Brisbane Labor
Lord Mayor has been raising the wind
in Melbourne and Sydney, and that
Loan Council approval or assistance may
be needed in his case.
The Loan Councillors dispersed to
their several capitals after a tacit agree-
ment that they would meet again in May
to consider the flotation of the next loan.
Money is getting dearer —Melbourne’s
Metropolitan Board, whose reputation
stands high, has had to offer £3 17s. 6d.
p.c. for £300,000-odd —but that, of
course, doesn’t matter.
• Queensland’s deficit at Jan. 31 was
£1,224,111, compared with £624,606 at
Jan. 31, 1935. There was a jump of
£587,000 in expenditure. The Govern-
ment ought to be doing a lot better.
There is nothing more derogatory to
Australian dignity in British flying boats
carrying mail to and from Australia than
there is in Orient ships carrying mail.
Qantas itself says air progress “follows
old sea tradition of world voyages” and
inveighs against “breaks of gauge.” Park-
hill, a provincial politician of the breed
that built the sft. 3in., 4ft. B|in. and
3ft. 6in. main lines, involving maddening
delays, inconvenience and expense and a
unification problem, unsolved because of
the stupendous cost —Parkhill is for
“breaks of gauge.”
It’s a great life being a transport boss.
The return of N.S.W. rail-chief Hartigan
has been followed by that of S. A.
Maddocks, the “Commissioner for Road
Transport” Strangulation, who was also
seven months abroad. Mr. Maddocks
reports that London has the best system
of traffic-control in the world. Loyalty
forbids him to name the city which has
the worst.
“Mr. Stevens anticipates that the
N.S.W. deficit will be balanced in
1936-37.” Perhaps it will, but it is only
four months since Stevens estimated that
the deficit for the year to June 30 would
amount to £1,750,000. The position has
improved since, but it will need to keep
on improving, even if the Government
can stand up against persistent pressure
for tax-reduction and the levelling up
of public-service pay.
Dunstan may balance his Budget this
year if he can collect probate duties on
“Bill” Baillieu’s estate. This year he
has already had windfalls from the Ben
Nathan property (Ben left £1,087,900)
and the H. B. Howard-Smith estate,
sworn at £1,135,378, of which £1,006,218
was Victorian. On estates of this magni-
tude Victorian rate of duty is 10 p.c.
plus 21 p.c. of that. The Commonwealth
takes 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. of what is left;
ir depends on whether “the estate passes
to a widow, children or grandchildren”
or to others. Nathan’s heirs get the
rebate, but not Howard Smith’s.
The Seamen’s Union never has any
luck. Had particulars of the Howard-
Smith estate been published before it
went on strike against the Dethridge
award, it would have been assured of
considerable public sympathy, but the
fact that the shipping co.’s chairman of
directors left' £1,135,378 did not come
to light till the strike was virtually over,
the public sick of it and most of the
union men on the beach. One would
have thought the “fairly active Com-
munists” who ran the fiasco would have
a better intelligence service.
The high cost of Roosevelt is indi-
cated by the fact that the Federal deficit
for seven months of the financial year is
up $159,000,000 compared with the
“Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness? I raised thee up under the
apple-tree”
“Plum-tree, Joe, plum-tree. And, gosh, I’m hungry!”
deficit for the corresponding period of
1934-35. That means that it exceeds
$2,124,000,000. The gross national debt is
now reckoned at $30,516,000,000. At the
beginning of Roosevelt’s reign, it was
$20,936,000,000.
One of the MacDonalds is out of his
troubles. Old Ramsay had a handsome
victory over two opponents for the Scot-
tish Universities seat (the Labor man lost
his deposit), and this will help young
Malcolm to get in for Ross and
Cromarty.
Molotov, president of the Council of
Commissars, says the U.S.S.R. is about
to adopt “the best elements of the Par-
liamentary system, even though it may
cause amusement abroad.” And the
other night Litvinoff dined with King
Edward off gold plate. The time seems
fast approaching when Australian Com-
munists will be joining U.A.P. Younger
Sets.
Premier Forgan Smith has cast up in
London to “attend the international
sugar conference,” and that other Aus-
tralian delegate Dr. Page will join him
presently. Their difficulty will be to find
the conference. “It is now understood
among well-informed persons,” the
“Times” says, “that there may be con-
siderable delay in issuing invitations, as
a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s
decision regarding AAA.” Still, the
salaries and travelling expenses of these
conferencers without a conference will
go on.
Westralia was not represented at last
week’s Loan Council meetings. Labor
Ministers were, of course, electioneering,
but even if they hadn’t been there was
no necessity for their attendance. Their
State’s interests are well looked after on
such occasions, and the Commonwealth
oppressor can always be depended upon
to shower it with lQans and tax-money
got from other States. The oppressor
even gave the Westralian Govern-
ment enough to restore all “Crown
employees’ ” pay-cuts six weeks before
the general election. Pay-cuts still
operate in N. S. Wales and Victoria,
which furnish most of the largesse.
North Perth Assembly elections are
usually humdrum affairs. For once the
district is working up some excitement,
for MacCallum Smith, its secesh mem-
ber, has three opponents and has never
found the going rougher. Holman, the
Labor man —he is a brother of Forrest’s
lady member, who is once more without
an opponent —has not much chance, but
his candidature weakens McSmith’s, who
has often received Labor support. The
others are Nats, like McSmith; one is a
brother of Federal Arbitration Judge
Drake-Brockman, and was himself a
Judge for some years at Rabaul ; like
him, too, he was a Digger. And he was
a Westralian Rhodes Scholar.
Though you would never think it to
read the cables, foremost Englishmen
(Kipling was among them), London
dailies with great circulations and repre-
sentative British periodicals are against
“sanctions.” In an article' on manners,
Max Beerbohm writes that in Italy,
“especially among the peasants” (thus
far the principal sufferers from “sanc-
tions”), “you find the widest distribution
of good manners in the world,” and
mentions the charming courtesy of a
child three years old:
On this child in our infinite wisdom
we are busily imposing sanctions, an almost
decent interval having elapsed since we
were busily making war against the Trans-
vaal Republic and defying the whole world
to intervene.
In fact, Mr. Anthony Eden is more
humbug than hero to Max.
In two years 13 persons have been
killed and 20 injured at N.S.W. level
crossings. Asked at Casino “to improve
the level crossing on Kyogle-road, at
which there has been a number of acci-
dents,” Commissioner Hartigan refused,
saying “It is not within my province to
protect people travelling along roads.”
His department does not find a penny for
rates, and has eaten up faxes to the ex-
tent of £28,500,000 in ten years. Evi-
dently the bureaucratic view is that
persons killed and maimed at unpro-
tected crossings had no right to be on
the roads at all.
T. K. Parkin, who succeeded Alex-
ander Peacock’s widow as M.L.A. for
Allandale, Vic. (she, of course, succeeded
her husband), is dead. Like the
Peacocks, he was U.A.P. The “Age”
has thoughtfully suggested that the by-
election affords a splendid opportunity
for the Cockies to do their new allies a
favor and give their old allies a bump
by supporting a Labor candidate.
The Nazis in Switzerland have lost
their leader, Gustlolf; he was shot to
pieces by one Frankfurter, a Yugoslavian
Jew. Manchester “Guardian” has the
characteristic comment that “the murder
is unique”:
It is the first time since the beginning
of the Hitler regime that a Nazi has been
assassinated by anybody but Nazis.
An extract which explains why the Brit-
ish Liberal press is loved by all.
The car service from Brisbane to
Proston ran through in 8| daylight hours
over 218 miles of road, compared with
14 hours over 206 miles of rail in a
mixed night train. The car also served
Maleny and Kenilworth, towns which
have no rail connection. On condition
of paying £45 in fines and an annual
registration fee of £460 for a seven-seater,
the contractor is to be allowed to com-
pete with the Government. Far from
being grateful, the inhabitants of the dis-
tricts served are still disaffected.
A Sydney “Herald” leader on the air-
mail business provoked a Parkhill pro-
test against “this departure into partisan-
ship from the tone of amphibolous dig-
nity which has so long characterised the
leading articles in the ‘Herald.’ ” Granny
retorted that it would be “an interesting
intellectual exercise to discuss ‘amphiboly
with Mr. Parkhill.” If he was speaking
in a zoological sense, it certainly would.
An amphibola, according to Webster, is
A genus of basommatophorous pulmo-
nate gastropods having a rough turbinate
shell, unique among the pulmonates in
possessing a well-developed operculum.
An operculum, of course, is
the horny or shelly plate developed on the
posterior dorsal surface of the foot of
many gastropod molluscs, especially in the
Prosobranchiata....
It’s a private fight, but Dr. Johnson would
have liked to join in.
Parkhill has not even the support of
the party most interested —Qantas Em-
pire Airways—in his objection to sea-
planes. Says the chairman, Fergus
McMaster:
I am satisfied that sounder commercial
results will be obtained to a greater extent
with flying-boats than with any other
system operated by land aircraft The
large flying-boat has the natural aerodrome
of the sea Fuel is generally cheaper
along the seaboard.
For Britishers, the first consideration
must be Empire co-operation... .Parochial-
ism and insularity are reactionary and
quite out of step with modern thought.
Parkhill is a perfect impersonation of
the last sentence, being parochial and
insular and reactionary and quite out of
step with modern thought.


THE RECORD.


p**\>* v
v v
8
6^
O'
v>
So writes the user of an “R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE!: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from, the Manufacturers .
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
BRISBANE • •
•'VALLE V
j
-tir 7nu4cSf
?Me. B.V.D Lfak,:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
FO«
Rtf*' 1
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
j
Personal.
SHORT-STORIES WANTED; Romantic plots
with Australian atmosphere but no slang
figures of speech; for publication in English.
American and Indian periodicals. Lengths,
1-5 thous. Send stamp with MSS. (NOT
stamped envelope).—S. CHRISTOPHER
ROBINSON, Film, Dramatic and Literary
Agents, 37 Mortimer Market, London, W.C.I,
England.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ben Nathan, the Melbourne furniture
man and racecourse proprietor, cut up for
£1,087,990. Howard Smith, the shipping
man, left £1,135,378, dividing it among
many relatives, friends and employees.
His wife, who predeceased him, had left
him £175,000; he distributed it among
“43 persons and charitable institutions.”
In this case, though not in Nathan’s, the
Commonwealth and State Treasurers will
benefit more than any of the named
beneficiaries.
Dr. D’Arcy Cowan, this year’s presi-
dent of the South Australian 8.M.A., has
lived the usual life of the popular
physician. He graduated M.B. and B.S.
“Mr. President, Adelaide B.M.A.”
at Adelaide in 1908, and was settling
into a comfortable practice when he was
haled away to become an R.A.M.C.
lieutenant in 1914. From 1916 till the
end of the war he was a captain in the
A. The doctor is a lecturer in
clinical medicine at the Adelaide Uni-
versity and in medical nursing to the
Nurses’ Registration Board, and for
some time before his elevation to the
presidency was vice-president of the
B.
“Scribe”: W. M. Hughes admitted to
the T.B. Soldiers’ Association in Sydney
that he sometimes found it convenient to
be deaf. When Billy was the leading
figure in the Commonwealth Parliament
at Melbourne, he was always able to hear
an interjection to which he had a telling
repartee—and he generally had one.
Interjectors who asked unpleasant ques-
tions or, more frequently, stupid ones he
never contrived to hear.
Dr. W. H. Crago, just dead, was a
Cornishman who had been in Australia
for 71 of his 85 years. For well over a
generation his bluff, kindly figure had
been part of the landscape of Woolloo-
mooloo and Paddington, where, with
Alexander McCormick and others, he
founded what later became the Scottish
hospital. In his middle years he had a
great reputation as a surgeon. He was
the most generous of men —many a
down-and-out family had to thank him
for a lift.
William Lawrence Baillieu, who has
died overseas, was the doyen of the
second Australian generation of a
French family that came to Melbourne
many years ago and built a millionaire
dynasty of Australians whose influence
weighs heavily even in the City of
London. W.L. was a director of many
of the biggest mining industrial cos. in
the Commonwealth —Electrolytic Zinc,
Broken Hill Smelters, Mt. Morgan,
Hampden-Cloncurry among them. When
mining languished before the depression,
he threw his weight and his money behind
the Melbourne “Herald,” Dunlop Rubber
and a score of pastoral concerns. It will
be surprising if he did not die a million-
aire. He was the only Baillieu of his
generation who plunged into politics.
He was a Victorian M.L.C. for 21 years,
held minor Ministerial offices several
times and was leader of the Government
in the L.C. for several years. His four
sons were all fine physical specimens- -
Clive, who had a great war record and
once rowed in the Oxford eight, has lat-
terly been the family’s chief representa-
tive in London. Two others, H.L. and
T.L., won decorations.
Frank Goldberg, president of the
Accredited Advertising Agents’ Associa-
tion for 1936, has made rapid strides.
He extended the Goldberg Advertising
Agency to Australia from small begin-
nings in M.L. shortly after the war, and
now employs a staff of 200. As a Tas-
man Sea traveller, he ranks with John
Fuller and Frank Coffee. Recently he
made his 89th crossing.
O. P. Heggie, who has died of pneu-
monia in California, was one of the best-
known Australians in the movies, and
one of the soundest and most versatile
of modern character actors. A South
Australian, he had six years’ experience
on the Australian stage (he was in “Mes-
senger from Mars” with William Hawtrey
and Gregan McMahon) before he got his
chance at the London Cri. 30 years ago,
and at once was engaged by Ellen Terry
for her 1907 tour of U.S.A. From then
onwards he was never without an engage-
ment —Uriah Heep, Louis Capet and
Shaw’s Androcles were all alike to him
as roles. When talkies became the
fashion, Hollywood claimed him.
Dubois has done full justice to the
kindly keenness of Norris Falla, manag-
ing director of the N.Z. Union Steam-
ship Co., who
began life as an
accountant, and
joined the Union
people in 1898.
Soldiering has
always been his
hobby —he rose
from the ranks in
the M.L. volunteer
artillery to be a
captain within
eight years. He
was in at the land-
ing on Gallipoli,
and left the Penin-
sula with a D.S.O.
at the end of 1915.
The next three
years found him
commanding artil-
lery brigades, in-
cluding the 4th
Howitzers. He is
a director of the
A.M.P. and honor-
ary Consul for
Japan.
The name of G.
D. Delprat, for 22
years g.m. of the
Broken Hill Prop., cropped up the
other day when he was elected to
a fellowship by an American society
of mining men. Since he retired in
1921, this Dutch engineer who became
a good Australian has been scarcely
A Big Gun in Shipping.
heard of by the public, but he is still
living in retirement in his Toorak home,
though he will this year celebrate his
eightieth birthday.
Australians get into some queer jobs.
Witness Gordon Childe, who remains a
dim memory in Queensland and N. S.
Wales politics as a young man with
pacifist views and a zeal for Labor which
right-minded Nationalists felt to be out
of keeping in the son of a North Sydney
rector and a first-class honorsman of
Oxford. After his return to Australia
towards the end of the war, Childe pro-
selytised in Queensland for a time, and
then became private secretary to John
Storey, then N.S.W. Premier. After that
wise man died, he abandoned Mr. Doolev
to travel in the Balkans. And
now he is professor of prehis-
toric archaeology at Edinburgh,
with a list of authoritative
works on Europe’s ancestors as
long as a missing link’s arm
to his credit.
H. E. Boote, editor of Sydney
“Worker,” was removed from the jubilee
conference of the A.W.U. at Ballarat the
other day suffering from a heart attack.
At first glance an average observer
might doubt whether there was room for
a heart inside that attenuated frame,
which is of the ideal thinness for a
democrat; but there is actually a very
large one —quite too large for a frail
body. Boote has weathered a lot of
storms in his editorial chair. In younger
days he swung a fearlessly aggressive pen,
and he still writes eminently readable
editorials and verse —he turned out some
ringing jubilee jingle for the old union.
The tireless and ageless A. J. Vogan
called at The Bulletin office a day or
two ago to exhibit a series of photo-
graphs of rock carvings which he discov-
ered in islands of Fiji. This year Vogan
celebrates his fiftieth year as a Fellow
of the Royal Geographical Society. He
represented the “Illustrated London
News” here for three years in the
’eighties, was the author of one of the
first Australian novels published in Eng-
land to run to a third edition, and was
among the pioneers of gold in New
Guinea. And he is still looking for new
Polynesian worlds to conquer.
U.S.A. has added another cosmopoli-
tan to its polyglot population in Peter
Buck—no relation to Bob Buck, of
Centralia—one of
the largest scientific
Maoris who ever
made the Shaky
Isles quiver with
his tread. He has
been appointed
director of the
Bishop Museum in
Hawaii and Pro-
fessor of Anthro-
pology at Yale.
He was born—Te
Rangi Hiroa is his
Maori name —at
Urenui in 1880,
and was M.L. long-
jump champion for
some years. For
four years he sat in
Parliament, and
was Maori Min-
ister in the Mac-
kenzie Govern-
ment for a time.
He shared his war
years between the
medical service on
Gallipoli, in which
he was an M. 0.,
and the pioneers,
in which he was a
major. Australia has seen him more
than once —within the last few years at
a Pan-Pacific Science Congress, at which
his laugh shook tjje cobwebs every time
an anthropological shibboleth was
uttered.
Frith has done his best to make M.
Paul Suzor look like a Frenchman by
expressing the innate tidiness of the
Gallic mind in lines a little straighter
than those of nature. That he has nearly
succeeded is a tribute to the firmness with
which national characteristics stick even
when transplanted. M. Suzor has been
away from Europe for 36 years. Fie has
M. SUZOR, the French Consul-General.
held office in every British Dominion,
and his four children were all born on
British soil, his brother was English-born,
too, and he had a'n unele in the British
Navy.
Bill Taylor, a 19-year-old Shepparton
(Vic.) lad, is a rescue addict. During
the past nine years he has saved no fewer
than 19 people from a watery grave, and
he is now being recommended to the
Humane Society. The only person to
dispute his title is Lily Beaurepaire, a
sister of the one-time Vic. swimming
champion. Lily found it hard to go for a
walk near any liquid without having to
spoil her dress by saving somebody’s life.
Even when she paid a holiday trip to
Sydney somebody had to fall off the
Mosman wharf as she was stepping from
the ferry. Lily is now managing her
father’s big guest house at Lome (Vic.),
and is still pulled away from her man-
agerial duties occasionally to drag un-
fortunates from the surf.
H. J. Cox-Taylor, a colonel when he
died in Tasmania, gave the order for
the first Australian shot which was fired
in the war —it was dropped across the
bows of the German steamer Pfalz as
she attempted to escape from Port Phillip
on August 5, 1914. To Cox-Taylor also
belonged the credit of designing the rising-
sun badge on the A.I.F. uniform. He
fought in the Boer War, and in the
Great War trained the sth Artillery
Brigade in Egypt and commanded it at
Fromelles. He won the D.S.O. and was
mentioned four times in dispatches for
bravery. For five years before his retire-
ment in 1932 he was Tasmanian State
Commandant.
“Dryfesdale”: Scottish papers note the
centenary of the birth at Wamphray of
Prof. A. H. Charteris, D.D., LL.D.,
once Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church in Scotland, and one of the kirk’s
greatest organisers. The prof, was one
of a brilliant group of boys whom his
father taught. At one time five future
Doctors of Divinity and professors sat
on the same form, including two sons
of the dominie, and the total enrolment
was about 30 scholars. One grandson o £
Wamphray’s dominie is Prof. A. H. Char-
teris, of the Law School, Sydney Uni-
versity ; another is Prof. F. J. Charteris,
of St. Andrew’s University (Scotland);
and a third is Brig.-General John Char-
teris, chief of Haig’s Intelligence Depart-
ment, who afterwards wrote an eminently
readable life of the C.-in-C.


U» V
.. ii-)
A
: 1
-
at®
sV
J>ALtA*
*1
A®*
tOH
A
Ci
av.
FRKH
. : -
PIES
«
a’&v
4M
IP
00
PtMlAf
AK#*o
X,
- 9
vJr
w%
* A
**” TkiKSffe'
For the voyage to England spare luxuries if you like, but
there is no need to spare comfort and enjoyment now
that there are five Orient liners with the new Tourist
Class (to England from £39 plus exchange).
w
K- ‘
.
m w
SOT
-mi
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLANOb
mx
*r-?
iEWK
- ?
r
¥
■
-
SB
mm
; '
■
i
.
mmwMfmMmmmmxm
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


.
m
2!■ .
MADE IN
W AUSTRALIA
BY
mmm
T
D
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.,
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Melbourne!
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
jtitmcii from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
vour Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the- time—your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton,Herbert R. Lysaglit, Shepheard E. Laidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director
Perpetual Trustee Company (limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
H„ V. Douglass, Manager,
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
0.T., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 20,039 10 p.c. = 13,360 6,679 53,920
1926.. 42,277 20 „ „ -26,720 15,557 69,477
1927.. 38,438 20 „ „ 26,720 11,718 81,195
Written off, £5500 .. .. 75,695
Prefs. Ords.
8 p.c. 20 p.c.
£
1928.. 36,427 2000 26,720 7,707 83,402
Written off, £2OOO .. .. 81,402
Shares in other cos. written up
£133,598 and that amount capi-
talised .. .. .. . . 81,402
Surplus on sale London busi-
ness, £228,989 .. .. 310,391
10 p.c.
1929.. 29,563 2000 26,720 843 311,234
Taxation on sale of London busi-
ness, £5OOO 306,234
Reserve for depreciation of invest-
ments, £6OOO 300,231
1930.. 11,081 2000 Nil 9,681 309,915
H p.c.
1931.. 820 1544 5,010 304,181
5 p.c.
1932.. 5,590 1000 .6,680 302,091
1933.. 6,807 1000 6,680 301,218
6 p.c.
1934.. 13,296 1000 8,016 ( ~,,0 8
To staff fund, £lOOO.. . <M»UiiU4,4a»
1935.. 9,514 1000 8016 525 305,023
Although there is not the profit in the
business there used to be, old share-
holders have nothing to complain about.
Sale of the London subsidiary (it used
to provide about two-thirds of the net
earnings) in 1928, at a profit of £362,587,
left the co. with its Australian interests
and a lot more money than it could find
employment for in the business. So,
three years later, half the capital was
returned. The ords., which received a one-
for-one bonus issue in 1928, have thus
had their original capital returned in full,
and still retain an interest in the business
equal to their former holding.
The balance of the sale money was
put out mostly on mortgage, and partly
in associated enterprises, including the
manufacture of fibre containers, paper
cups and ice-cream cones. Trading
losses, due to slump, seasonal conditions
and price-cutting, gobbled most of the
returns from investments in ’3l and ’32.
Then the tide turned. But competition
remained, and the parent’s own trade
doesn’t appear to have turned in much,
if any, profit.
The £13,296 netted in ’34 was only
£l6B more than the previous year's return
from investments —what they have turned
in since has not been disclosed. The
drop of £3782 in last year’s profit was
due mainly to an unfavorable summer.
After paying the pref. div. (£1000),
enough remained to show 6.3 p.c. on the
£133,598 of ord. capital as against 9.2,
4.3 and 3.4 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.
During the year £2425 was added to
the book value of premises, and £9652
to plant:—
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £292,197 £146,098 £146,098 £146,098
Sundry creditors 9,647 14,746 14,615 9,56 G
Land & buildings 67,421 74,069 83,248 85,673
Plant etc. . . 42,834 33,202 50,609 60,261
Investments .. 45,086 235,887 185,416 139,233
Sundry debtors 36,742 23,343 36,629 41,977
Stocki . . . 62,346 44,785 67,961 62,510
Cash . . . . 312,605 10,165 29,686
To meet the outlay, chip £5047 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
carry an extra £5338 of book debts and
put £29,686 in the bank, investments were
reduced by £46,183. Owing to the out-
lay on fixed assets, the more or less liquid
surplus (£263,840) was £11,551 lighter
than at the previous balance.
The future of the scrip as an invest-
ment will depend largely upon the suc-
cess or otherwise of the co.’s trading
investments. At 355. the ords., covered
by 575. 6d. in net tangibles, return 3.4 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis, with a further part
return of capital as a possibility. The
well-protected prefs.—there are only
12,500 of them —seldom come on to the
market.
East African Coffee Plantations, Ltd.
Develop -
To Re- De- merit
Aug., Loss. Dividends. serves, ficit. Account.
£ £,£>£,£>
1931.. 614 Nil ‘ 3292 53,288
1932.. 3456 Nil 6748 60,919
Mav,
1933*. 940 Nil 7688 67,630
Written off p. and 1. debit, 1
etc., £7688 I at n7r
Written off development | ’
account, £20,654 net J
Profit. Reserves.
1934.. 6260 7 p.c. = 403 t 5857 5857 46,976
1935.. 3819 7 „ „ 1050 f 2769 8626 48,179
*Nine months, tPref. div.
Although the outlook for shareholders
has lost much of its former drabness, the
outside debt stands in the way of the
ords. at the moment, and seems likely to
—for a while, at any rate. Meantime,
coffee prices will need to improve and
nature remain kind if anything more than
moderate returns are to be looked for.
The co. was formed in Melbourne in
1928 to grow coffee in Kenya, East
Africa, where it took over some 8500
acres, partly freehold and partly on a
99 years’ lease, in the Nandi and Kiambu
districts. Before it could get on to its
feet—the trees are not revenue producers
until three years old, and do not come
into full bearing until their sixth year—
the markets broke, and the business was
in danger of becoming hamstrung by
lack of working capital.
To ease the position, £15,000 of 7 p.c.
pref. capital was gathered a couple of
years ago, and the two principal creditors
—estate of late G. R. Mayers (£12,796)
and Victoria Nyanza Sugar (£11,055) —
agreed to defer their claims. At the same
time, half the ord. capital was jettisoned,
reducing it to £75,000. This enabled the
co. to rule out the p. and 1. debit and
preliminary exes, (together £7688), snip
£20,654 off the book value of develop-
ment account, £36,903 off land and build-
ings and £6786 off plant, and start the
last term with £ 13,000-odd in the bank.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1928. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £49,532 £150,000 £90,000 £90,000
Liabilities . . 97,051 44,925 43,617 40,499
Land & buildings 77,985 99,914 63,011 63,200
Plant . . 6,069 18,298 11,512 11,696
Stocks, etc. . . 663 1,229 4,721 3,902
Book debts . . 397 138 44 47
Gash, etc. . . 46,174 27 13,210 12,100
When the books closed the outside debt
exceeded more or less liquids by £24,450,
an improvement of £1192 over the twelve-
month. The deferred liabilities already
referred to were unaltered at £23,851.
The slip of £2441 in the year’s net
earnings was due to a lighter crop, fol-
lowing heavy pruning—257.9 tons (down
93 tons), of which 180.65 tons had been
sold at the close of accounts; 114.65
tons in London at an average of £94 ss.
9d., and 66 tons in Kenya at an average
of £6B 4s. 7d. The average for the lot
was approximately £B4 14s. as against
£BO 18s. and £6l 12s. for the two pre-
ceding seasons. The £3819 netted was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
3.6 on ord. capital as against 6.9 p.c. in
’34.
The current season’s crop is expected
to yield between 400 and 450 tons of
coffee. Locally, Italian demand for the
army in Abyssinia has hardened prices
for the lower-grade coffees ; but most of
.the output will be sold in London, where
prices are fairly steady. The new Kenya
Coffee Board is doing good work on the
marketing side of the industry.
On ’Change the lOs.-paid ords. remain
steady around ss. 6d. The prefs., which
participate with the ords. beyond 7 p.c.,
seldom appear on the market.
O. Gilpin, Ltd.
f Dividends- N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 83,072 738 20 p.c. = 71,983 10,351 39,551
1927.. 93,003 4,628 15 „ „ 60,000 28,375 11,176
Reserves.
1928. .113,189 7,000 17*,, „ 71,645 34,544 23,368
1929.. 33,046 7,000 5 „ „ 22,775 3,271 26,639
1930.. 35,459 7,000 5 „ „ 26,555 1,904 28,543
1931.. 11,384 7,000 Nil 4,384 32,927
1932.. 13,482 7,000 21 p.c. =13,608 25,801
1933.. 39,223 7,000 6 „ „ 32,661 25,363
7 & 6 p.c.
1934.. 43,253 9,993 5 „ ~ 27,469 5,791 31,154
1935.. 50,666 18,910 6 „ „ 33,261 29,649
This co., the largest of its kind in Aus-
tralia, runs a chain of drapery stores,
mostly scattered throughout the country
districts in Vic., S. Aus., N. S. Wales and
Tas. When it took over the business
in 1922 there were 50 stores in the
chain; now there are 100 or there-
abouts. Some juicy divs. were paid be-
fore slump intervened ; it coincided with
the board’s policy of property purchase,
to finance which the co. went a bit
into debt, and the ords. were passed
by in 1931. However, a clearance of old
stocks, an overhaul of the organisation
and interest and rent reductions, etc.,
cleared the way for recovery of profits
when the tide turned, and the outlook is
now more promising than at any time
during the last seven years. Still, mar-
gins are narrower than they used to be,
and, with more money invested in bricks
and mortar, a return to the pre-slump
ratio of net earnings to capital need not
be looked for.
During the last term “turnover ex-
panded considerably.” Gross earnings,
which fell from £274,562 in ’2B to
£180,292 in ’32, sprang £27,992, reaching
£246,896. The net result benefited by
£7413 of the increase, the ratio of exes.
(£196,230) to gross earnings being 79.5
p.c. as against 80.2 p.c. in ’34. After
paying the pref. divs. (together £18,910),
enough remained to show 5.7 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 6, 5.9, 1.1, 0.8, 6.1,
5.7 and 27.1 p.c. back to 1928. En-
couraged by the outlook, the board
added a point to the div., making it
6 p.c., though reserves had to be tapped
for £1505 to do it, reducing them to
£29,649 in excess of goodwill (£50,000),
which is not treated as an asset herein.
Balance r sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of the business:
1926. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Pref. capital.. £23,400 £100,009 £300,000-£300,000
Ord. capital.. 400,000 544,350 554,350 554,350
Mortgage . . 14,020 118,453 99,285 88,310
Overdraft . . 65,905 186,708 5,793 23,817
Sundry creditors 55,434 48,341 27,497 21,149
Freehold . . 91,788 511,855 527,563 429,101
Plant . . 31,915 55,395 65,922 186,087
Stocks . . 439,216 415,153 434,856 402,708
Cash, book
debts, etc. 11,480 54,888 17,,205 4,922
The £200,000 of 6 p.c. B-pref. money
gathered early in the ’34 term was used
mainly to reduce the overdraft. Last
year’s reduction of £98,462 in freeholds
and the addition of £120,165 to plant
reflect the sale of the co.’s Footscray
(Vic.) premises and the opening of
several new stores in country centres in
N. S. Wales and Vic. The mortgage
(down £10,975) amounted to 20 p.c. of
the book value of freeholds, and stocks
(down £32,148) about nine times covered
the floating debt. Sales are chiefly for
cash ; book debts amount to only £4212.
On the market the 7 p.c. first prefs.
are priced at 265. 9d., and the 6 p.c.
seconds at 20s. lid. The return at these
figures is 5.2 p.c. and 5.7 p.c. respec-
tively. Last year’s profit nearly three
times covered their combined annual div.
requirements. The net tangible cover is
£8 16s. 9d. firsts and £3 18s. 4d. seconds.
The ords. are not listed.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925 .. 8830 lOp.e. = 7930 900 15,213
1926 .. 8790 10 „ „ 79 3 0 860 16,070
1927 .. 9131 10 „ „ 79 3 0 1 201 17,271
1928 . . 9730 10 „ „ 79 30 1 800 19,071
1929 . . 8540 10 „ „ 79 3 0 610 19,681
1930 . . 6032 74 „ „ 59 4 7 85 19,766
1931 .. 1484 „ „ 47 58 16,492
1932 . . 5028 7 „ „ 5551 15,969
1933 . . 6257 7 „ „ 555 1 706 16,675
1934 . . 4477 54 ~ ~ 43 62 115 1 6,790
1935 . . 4247 5 „ „ 39 6 5 282 17,072
The tannery and belting factory both
worked to capacity, as they did in the
previous. term, and increased sales were
made at better prices. Yet, after paying
all exes, and making full provision for
contingencies, including depreciation—
an important item in this class of busi-
ness —the net result was £230 lighter.
That was because the increase in prices
for the finished article lagged behind
the increase in raw material costs. The
sustained increase in the price of hides,
the co.’s principal raw material, has been
due largely to the revival in the motor
trade, which has created a keen demand
for all high-class skins for upholstery.
The £4247 netted was 5.3 p.c. on capi-
tal,- compared with 5.6, 7.8, 6.3, 1.8, 7.6,
10.7 and 12.2 p.c. back to 1928. Half
a point was chipped off the div., reduc-
ing it to 5 p.c.
The co. has a pleasing history. Since
the public became interested in 1911 it
has built up and held an export trade
with Asia in belting and the other
leather products it manufactures, and
widened its local connections, despite
disturbed conditions. A steady 10 p.c.
was paid for the 14 years to the close of
accounts in 1929; for the next half-
dozen years the average was 6.4 p.c.,
thanks to the introduction of new lines,
the opening of a branch in Melbourne
and savings in overhead.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1928. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . . . £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities.. .. 30,723 30,7 6 5 3 3,12 4 3 2,740
Freeholds . . . . 50,881 50,881 50,881 50,881
Plant, etc. . . 9,450 7,677 6,360 6,895
Stocks . . . . 50,9 2 5 47,3 7 3 53,4 2 7 53,658
Rook debts .. 21,732 21,744 19,150 18,398
Cash, etc. .. 1,315 2,259 2,293 2,177
Plant' (up £535) stands in the books at
a little .over two-thirds of the 1928 figure,
despite substantial additions meanwhile;
it is reported in first-class condition,
and much depends upon that. Stocks
have been valued on the usual conserva-
tive basis, and adequate allowance is
said to have been made for bad debts.
There was little change in the more or
less liquid surplus (£41,493).
Subject to developments within the
trade, the immediate outlook favors a bit
better showing at next balance. Still,
owing to the hardening of interest rates
generally and the lack of improvement
in last year’s net earnings, the market
prices the pound shares at 21s. as against
255. 6d. a year ago. The return at 21s.
is 4.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 245. 3d. in net tangibles.
Canterbury Frozen Meat (M.L.)
Pref. Ord. Written
Nov., Profit. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£>£/£> £> £
19 2 5.. 21,17 6 60 0 0 11,2 5 0 7,62 9 2 21,866
8 p.c.
19 2 6.. 21,3 1 8 60 0 0 9,00 0 7,66 3 220,521
1927.. 21,362 6000 9,000 3,106 223,777
1928.. 22,010 6000 9,000 3,726 227,061
Loss. 6 p.c.
19 2 9.. 48,4 1 4 60 0 0 6,75 0 2,353 163,544
Profit on war loans, £11,366 .. 174,910
19 3 0.. 47,3 8 9 60 0 0 6,750 2,9 18 111,853
Profit.
1931.. 15,62 3 60 0 0 6,75 0 2,50 0 112,226
5 p.c.
193 2.. 13,73 4 60 0 0 5,62 5 1,591 112,744
7 p.c.
1933.. 39,58 7 50 0 0 7,87 5 4,851 134,605
1934.. 47,715 5000 7,875 17,361 152,084
193 5.. 42,16 1 50 0 0 7,87 5 2 2,0 2 5 159,345
Compared with the previous year, there
was little change in the Dominion’s ship-
ments of lamb ; mutton exports increased.


SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
PHILIPS LAMPS AGAIN
GREATLY REDUCED
Drastic reductions effective immediately. Compare the
prices below! Good light—Philips light—is cheaper than ever.
GASFILLED
COILED COIL
NOTE: The prices shown are for lamps'
rated 200 to 250 volts. Prices of all other)
types upon application to your nearest dealer.
Gasfilled Single Coil
PHILIPS LAMPS
STRALIA
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Sales Increase
PER CENT.
. . . Qreat Swing to
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
1
International
166%
| increase
Chart shows relative positions of
six leading makes
j
Next
highest
competitor
70%
increase
1
I Next
58%
increase
ĵ
Next
52%
increase
m
Next
50%
increase
\i/A
Next
26%
increase
This chart shows an increase of 166 per cent. In International
truck sales officially recorded from July 1 to November 30, 1935
(the latest figures available), over sales in the previous corres-
ponding period. The chart also shows that International's 166%
. increase was more than double the increase of any other of the
six leading makes.
Internationals are—have always been—true trucks in strength
and quality from bumper bar to tail light.
Let us give you a demonstration. Try out any truck in the
successful International line—they range from speedy, flexible
utilities to heavy-duty 5-tonners. Every model a Masterpiece.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
C INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART. AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
FT
International Model C-30 with
a gross capacity of 55 cwt. is
of the type required for 75% of
haulage work to-day.
Nil 96
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
Prices fluctuated, but on the average they
were fairly even. So the quota restric-
tions on lamb and mutton consignments
from Maoriland to the U.K. have done
growers and freezers no harm. Indeed,
the £42,161 (down £5554) of profit
claimed by this co. last year has been
bettered on only two occasions since
1914. The figure was written after pro-
viding for depreciation and taxation, but
before making a much-larger-than-usual
expenditure on replacements, etc., shown
as written off in the table. Deducting
the £22,025 and the £5OOO handed to the
prefs., enough remained to show 13.4 p.c.
on the £112,500 of ord. capital as against
22.5 p.c. for the preceding term.
The board, which has always pursued
a cautious policy, kept the div. at 7 p.c.
Subject to expenditure on replacements,
etc., and what happens in Maoriland in
connection with hours, wages and ex-
change, and what Britain does in con-
nection with its long-term meat policy
(the matter will come up for discussion
again at the end of this year), prospects
of a bit better than 7 p.c. look encourag-
ing. For the 11 years to the end of 1928
the ords. averaged 11.2 p.c. Then the
bottom fell out of prices, and for the
next two years losses aggregating £95,803
were recorded ; earnings have since made
a remarkable recovery, thanks to better
and more stable prices, an increased
volume of exports and reduction in costs.
The market prices the fully-paid £5
prefs. at £6, and the £lO ords. paid to
£7 10s. at £lO 10s. At these prices the
return is 4.1 p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively.
The net tangible cover is £lB 11s. lOd.
prefs. and £lB 2s. sd. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1929. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £212,500 £212,500 £212,500 £212,500
Liabilities ... 518,470 469,460 387,267 342,406
Property & plant 312,684 304,242 259,382 231,965
Advances, 1 f
stocks, etc. 504,464 f 499,6941 344,038 379,367
Cash, etc. .. 82,616 J [ 161,306 115,793
To reduce liabilities (they are mostly
drafts against the co.’s interest in ship-
ments, and include something for con-
tingencies) by £44,861, and add £35,329
to advances, etc., cash and investments
were drawn upon for £45,513. On fixed
asset's £27,417 more was written off than
was spent on capital account. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£152,754) was £34,677.
Cumberland Paper Board Mills, Ltd.
i Dividends N
, Prcf.
Sept., Loss. Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1925.. 29,868 32 32 Nil Nil = 33,436 11,577
1926.. 22,193 8 8 40 Nil,, 32,359 1,411
Premiums on shares, £2655 .. 4,066
Undertaking sold to Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd. Reduction in
reserves, £2205 .. .. .. 1,861
Profit. Deficit.
1927.. 12,613 8 8 8 8 = 26,008 11,534
Added reserves, £lll9 .. .. 10,415
1928.. 27,071 8 8 8 4 = 22,000 5,344
Added reserves, £763 .. .. 4,581
Reserves.
1929.. 13,888 8 5 Nil Nil = 8,606 701
1930.. 20,479 8 11 10 Nil,, 21,092 88
1931.. 16,146 8 8 10 Nil,, 16,064 170
1932.. 28,856 7$ 7$ 11$ 7|„ 28,905 121
1933.. 32,070 8 8 8 8 „ 28,648 3,543
1934.. 29,106 8 8 8 8,, 28,649 4,000
1935.. 27,525 8 8 8 8 „ 28,649 2,876
The outlook for shareholders is brighter
than the last line in the table suggests.
At Sept. 30 the £358,111 of capital and
the so-called reserves, together with £1920
set aside for the taxgatherer and £79
coming to sundry creditors, were repre-
sented by 358,111 fully-paid 16s. shares
in Australian Paper Manufacturers, in
at £358,111, an advance of £21,101 to
the manufacturing co. and £l5 in cash.
The manufacturing co. took over Cum-
berland’s and the A. P. and P. Co.’s,
assets (for scrip) in 1926 ; later it clipped
4s. per share (£320,000) off its capital,
reducing the figure to £1,280,000. No
adjustment was made in the holding co.’s
books in this connection. Still, share-
holders have no need to worry on that
score.
During the last term Cumberland paid
an all-round 8 p.c., though it called for
£1124 more than the stated profit, and
reduced the co.’s own reserves to £2876.
Since the close of accounts, the 8 p.c.
has been sweetened with the issue of
89,528 new £1 ords., one for four (all
classes), at 255. each. The market prices
the contribs., paid to 55., at 10s. Id., the
fully-paid ords. at 335. Id., and the three
lots of prefs. at 325. 6d. each. At these
figures the return on an 8 p.c. div. basis
is 4.8 p.c. f.-p. ords. and 4.9 p.c. prefs.
While the contribs. remain paid to ss.
each, the return is approximately 4 p.c.,
rising to a shade over 5 p.c, when they
are fully paid.
After destruction by fire of the Sydney
mill in 1928, the operating co. put up a
more efficient plant at Botany. Then
exchange and the tariff diverted to the
co. much business formerly placed over
seas, and earnings continued to expand
while selling prices were reduced:
Net Proflt
Year, p.c. Average
Cap 6^ L 6 | l ?o id = So 82 c
1029 .. 45*797 2.8 2* 40,’000
1930 •• 102,720 s.i 74 ~ „ 96,000
1931 99.372 7.8 7 89 600
1932 .. 141,201 11.0 ni „ „ 144,000
•• Ill’ll 114 „ „ 144,000
1934 • • 171,614 13.4 ll| ~ ~ 144,000
1935 .. 177,115 13.8 n|*„ ”144,000*
. , ‘Estimate.
tllldudes i £soo ° sent loss ° f P loflts serves,
tpie * ast , term gross earnings
(£358,371) sprang £26,531 ; the net result
y ene fited by £5501 of the increase, reach-
ing 13.8 p.c. on capital. That was after
setting aside £71,295 (up £1831) for de-
P re oiation and £52,500 (up £7500) for
taxation, bad and doubtful debts and loss
profits insurance. The divs. paid to
* ae holding cos. are not disclosed;
appearances are that they were the same
as in the previous year.
Balance-sheet movements reflect pre-
parations for larger trading:
operating Co.’s Figures.
Paid capital .. £i,6oMbo£i,2Bo!(U zi.lS'oo
Ijoang> etc 447,704 1
Sundry creditors".’ 04,686 112,296
Freehold, plant, etc. 1,406,202 1,303,568 1,384,905
ot^ r TOS ; 2 36>658 36>668
stock .. .. 475,110 347,686 449,200
® OO * 5; debts ■ • 151,593 256,570 241,00 s
C “ h " ” lwu 68 - ,2i 21 ’ 95 “
£°/ a^L\ n 7 eXt ?, £Io i’ 583 h “V' 01 * 8 and f
add £81,337 net to the book value of
J accpfs rash was rrHnrpfl hv 7hQ
"xed assets, cash was reduced by £46,/69,
(Continued on next page.)


NOBELA
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
iNOBED
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLI).: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: YV. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, -N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* v * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 4S3
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
MINING 'DUMPS. —Limited Metallurgical Coy-
with successful record in recovery and extraction
from difficult slimes and sands, is prepared to con-
sider treating other dumps carrying payable value
in New South Wales. Advise tonnages and send
samples to Box 371F (or ring B1104).
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., > s
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. V rite
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
debtors’ balances by £14,872 and £17,610
was added to the amount coming to out-
siders. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£600,627) was
£32,292.
To meet the increased demand for its
products, the co. is installing plant (capa-
city about 7500 tons p.a.) for manufac-
ture of “machine-glazed” paper, in addi-
tion to a new 100-ton-a-day board mill.
The new equipment is expected to be
in full swing by the middle of this year.
To meet the capital outlay involved, the
co. issued 400,000 new 16s. shares at 255.
each (89,528 to Cumberland and 310,472
to A. P. and P.). When fully paid, the
issue will bring with it £lBO,OOO of share
premiums, and raise paid capital to
£1,600,000, on which 11£ p.c. will call
for £lBO,OOO, or £2885 more profit than
was claimed last year. The co. is still
investigating the possibilities of manufac-
turing pulp and paper from Australian-
grown timbers.
Rangeng Tin .
This Melbourne-controlled concern,
which bought 385 acres at Rangeng-
Asham, Punket, West Siam, from Eastern
Tin in 1927, has had no luck. Its Werf
Conrad dredge, which cost £42,305, did
not set in until late in 1930. Then the
quota allotment proved inadequate, and
in 1932 Peninsular and Rangeng agreed
to produce their combined quotas alter-
nately ; but the arrangement was dis-
solved at the end of 1933. Meanwhile,
the face value of the scrip was lifted
from 20s. to 255., and another Is. 3d.
was called, making the shares paid to
21s. 3d. each. The pref. div. was low-
ered from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c., with the
right to advance with the ords. above
that rate, but no divs. accrue while the
dredge is idle. Paid capital is £103,407
in 38,625 prefs. and 58,700 ords. Owing
to further restriction of production in
Siam, profit for the 12 months to the
end of August last was £11,984 lighter
at £6294. Prefs. were handed £8945,
cleaning their slate to the close of
accounts, and £4699 was carried for-
ward. The dredge turned over 1,198,000
c.y. for a recovery of 170.66 tons t. 0.,
an average .3191 b. per yard, worth
4.86 d.; costs were 3.61 d. The previous
year’s turnover was 838,526 c.y. for
228.46 tons t. 0., an average of .611 b.,
worth 9.9 d.; costs were 4.68 d. The drop
in the value of the ground last year was
due to inclusion of about 60 p.c.
of tailings in the feed. Tin averaged
£222 19s. Id. in London as against
£227 15s. 9d. for the previous term. On
February 8 the spot figure had dropped
to £202 17s. 6d.
* * * *
Austral Malay, the Sydney holding and
prospecting co. which is interested in
half a dozen tin-dredging concerns
in Malaya, has exercised its option
over “a large area” of auriferous
alluvial ground on the Clutha River,
near Cromwell, Central Otago (M.L.).
The intention is to float a co. to work
the property by bucket-dredging. Details
have not yet been announced. The
pound shares fetch 775. in the market.
* * * *
Bulolo Gold Dredging’s main areas in
New Guinea are estimated to contain
90,000,000 c.y., worth 50 cents a yard
with gold at 35 dollars an ounce. Dis-
covery of the deeper gravels is figured
to give the co. at least another 80,000,000
c.y., averaging 32 cents, while there is
a further 10,000,000 c.y., or more, averag-
ing 25 cents, in outlying areas. On a
conservative estimate, the co. thus has a
dredgeable area of some 180,000,000 c.y.,
with an average gold content of over
40 cents per yard, or 11.50 z. fine gold
per 1000 c.y. With working costs at,
say, 12 cents (11 cents for the last
two years) per yard, there is a working
profit of over 50,000,000 dollars, or
£10,000,000 (sterling), in sight, with gold
at 140 s. per ounce. There are four
dredges on the property ; the first set in
during March, 1932, and the last in
August, 1934. No. 5, capacity 250,000
c.y. monthly, to dig 80ft. below water-
level, is expected to be ready in about
seven months; designs for No. 6, which
is to dig 115 ft. below water-level, are
not yet complete. With five dredges
working to capacity, there is 12 years’
work ahead, with the possibility of more
payable ground being developed. The
div. was lifted from 1 dollar 20 cents
(Canadian) in July, 1935, to 1 dollar
40 cents in December Paid capital is
4,700,000 dollars in fully-paid five-dollar
shares. To help meet the cost of the
new dredges, the board intends to issue
60,000 new shares, at a price yet to be
announced.
* * * *
Cuthbert’s Misima, which bought New
Misima goldmine for roughly £lOO,OOO,
of which £75,000 was cash, is getting into
its stride. Floods in Cooktown Creek
destroyed the value of the flying start
which the new co. got for a few days
when it took over at the end of October
last. The treatment plant was put out
of action until Dec. 4, but mine develop-
ment was not interfered with. The first
clean up to Dec. 23 from 1020 tons
ore yielded bullion estimated value of
which showed a recovery of 345. lOd.
per ton of ore. It was to be expected
that some gold would be locked up from
a fresh start; this is borne out by the
January clean-up, which yielded in bul-
lion 51s. 3d. per ton of ore. Gold in
the bullion was valued at £8 per ounce
(Australian), so that, at present prices of
precious metals, approximately 10 p.c.
can be added to arrive at the figure
likely to be realised at the refinery. The
January clean-up was 3640 z. of gold from
1160 tons —slightly over 6dwt., which is
on a par with the average yield from the
large Umuna ore-body during the past
four years. Since costs, spread over the
year, are not likely to exceed 225. per
ton of ore, the co. need maintain only
January figures in order to pay good
divs. on its £150,000 of capital. The
battery is now crushing 1200 tons per
month, and plans are under way for
raising the capacity to 3300 tons per
month. For this purpose C. G. Rutledge
(mine and treatment) and H. G. Carter
(construction), two directors, have visited
the mine, which should be able to
respond to the call for more ore as new
sections of the plant are installed.
* * * *
R. J. Winters, consulting geologist to
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, has found
two new rich terraces at the southern end
of the co.’s Sandy Creek area, New
Guinea. One contains about 8400 c.y.,
averaging 205., and the other 4000 c.y.,
worth 445. 4d. a yard. Nine pits put
down on the Poverty Creek area showed
an average of 3s. 9d. a yard ; five others
had to be abandoned because of water.
Speaking generally, his investigations
confirmed original estimates concerning
this property, which were as follows:
, V alue v— I—-Costs 1 —-Costs N
Measured Average
Area, per Average
c.y. Amount, c.y. Amount, per c.y.
Sandy Ck. 2,763,215 £385,073 2/5 £138,161 1/-
Poverty Ck. 715,800 132,857 3/8 67,470 1/10.6
Midlothian* 38,704 13,208 6/9 3,870 2/-
Total.. 3,517,719 £531,138 3/-£209,501 1/2
‘Watercourses only.
Values are figured on gold being worth
£7 Bs. 9d. an ounce in Australian cur-
rency. The first unit of the sluicing plant
began to open up a face at the end of
November. Walter Johnsen, from Maori-
land, is in charge.
* * * *
For the year to July 31 last, Forsayth
Gold’s income was £3936. Including
£12,047 spent on development, expendi-
ture totalled £14,929, leaving the balance
£10,991 on the wrong side. When the
books closed there was £715 coming to
creditors; debtors and cash totalled
£2274. The co. bought the Forsayth
property (Q.) from Australian Mining
Trust in Aug., 1933, for £38,000; de-
velopment lifted the cost to £50,691, and
the venture was abandoned. In Sept.,
1934, the co. took another option from
A.M.T., this time over the Ingliston and
Commodore, Meekatharra (W.A.), on
which it had spent £10,249 when the
books closed. But the drill has failed to
disclose sufficient values to warrant exer-
cising the options, which would involve
payment of £14,000. What the future
holds for shareholders will largely depend
upon what A.M.T. still has to offer.
* * * *
Yilgarn Gold, 16 miles from Yalladine
(W.A.), shows a debit of £7278 on work-
ing account for the year to Sept. 30 last.
It crushed 1358 tons for 11660 z. 15dwt.
gold, an average of a shade over 17dwt.
The north faces on the 180 ft. and 280 ft.
levels are in low values, but further driv-
ing is expected to disclose more pay ore.
The present shoot, about 180 ft. long, is
expected to average 15dwt. over a width
of 7ft. Manager Sheard reckons there is
£30,000 worth of gold above the 280 ft.
level awaiting extraction, and that pay
ore continues below that level. A second
five-head of stamps is being erected, and
improvements are being made to the
shaft and other equipment.
* * * *
Because it had to sink a new main
shaft, not originally taken into the reck-
oning, Western Queen, at Warda Warra,
65 miles west of Mt. Magnet (W.A.), has
run short of funds. Shareholders are
therefore asked to authorise the board
to borrow up to £6OOO on debentures,
probably at 12£ p.c. It is reckoned that
the main ore-body at the 100 ft. level has
yet to be entered at the 200 ft. level,
where development to date has been
along a spur. The co. has also met with
trouble in the main power unit of its
plant.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), which
has an earl, a knight and an hon. on
its board, held its annual roll-up in
London last month. It claims to be
making a clear profit of £20,000 a year
from ore treatment, although milling re-
sults for the first few months were dis-
appointing. An increase in capital from
£llO,OOO to £160,000, to provide funds
for more extensive development and
plant additions, was hinted at by the
chairman. Ore reserves are estimated
at three years’ supply at the present rate
of depletion. The grade, a little over
4dwt., is not so good as was hoped for.
The co. is in the same stable as Youanmi.
* * * *
Directors of Pomme d’Or announce
with glee the “fortunate discovery of
over £lOOO worth of amalgam under the
mill.” This lucky find, together with
“very satisfactory recoveries from
sands,” has induced them to incur addi-
tional capital expenditure, “benefits from
which should soon be felt.” Something
is also said about the purchase of a cheap
five-head battery, and about the output
of the mine being doubled before long.
So far the market seems uninterested.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) intended to have
its first clean-up at the end of January.
According to the directors, the necessity
for rearranging certain pumping units
caused a temporary stoppage, and insuf-
ficient ore was crushed to warrant tak-
ing the gold from the plant. After a
visit to the mine, two of the directors say
that “ounce ore should be crushed for a
considerable time to come.”
* * * *
King of Creation, near Laverton
(W.A.), recently purchased by Claude de
Bernales from Harry Raven and others,
is to be passed on to the Anglo-
Australian Gold Development, the first
of the De Bernales group to be floated
in London. The development co. already
owns several goldmining ventures in the
West, including Beryl and Yellow-
dine. King of Creation is credited with
a fairly large tonnage of oxidised ore
down to 100 ft., the deepest point in the
mine.
Claude de. Bernales has faith in West-
ralia. Besides investing half a million,
derived from goldmining, in Perth real
estate, he has, with Joe Thorn, of Lake
View, and “Pete” Prior, of Wiluna, now
put a large sum into a cement co. at
Perth, and may yet further invest in a
new W.A. coalmining venture. A co. to
start, acquire, print or circulate any
newspaper or other publication has also
been added to his list of undertakings.
He returns to London in a few months
to seek more capital for investment in
Groperland.
. * * * *
Australian Gold Development, the
Melbourne prospecting concern whose
shareholders participated in the flota-
tion of Golden Plateau, Lancefield,
Loloma, Emperor and 11 other cos., has
thrown off Darlot (W.A.) Gold Develop-
ment, nominal capital £BOOO in £2
shares, to test three reefs at Freeman’s
Find, about 40 miles north of Darlot
(W.A.). T. R. Victor says there is a
reasonable chance of opening up suffi-
cient pay-ore to warrant flotation of a
larger co. and the installation of a treat-
ment plant. The option runs out on
February 4, 1937. If exercised, the pur-
chase consideration is £12,000 cash, less
£6OO already paid.
* * *
Tests of tailings from the Beryl mine,
Kundip (W.A.), at the Kalgoorlie School
of Mines by direct cyanidation gave an
extraction of only 44 p.c. It is con-
sidered that the best method of recover-
ing the gold would be by leaching the un-
ground calcine with cyanide in vats,
whereby up to 80 p.c. of the metal could
be extracted.
* * * * 1
Mt. Lawson Prospecting and Option
Syndicate has taken an option over 2000
acres of dredging ground on the Wanu-
nangatta River, Gippsland (Vic.), and
another over an area on the Shoalhaven
River (N.SW.). E. T. Lewis will test
the Vic. ground, and, by arrangement
with Mt. Morgan Developments, Prout
Webb will overhaul the Shoalhaven
area.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell is now one of the three Aus-
tralian base-metal mines with ore re-
serves exceeding 7,500,000 tons; Mt.
Morgan and Mt. Isa are the other two.
The increase in ore reserves at Mt. Lyell
and Mt. Morgan is the outcome of re-
duced costs and the rise in the price of
gold respectively.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile producers
continue to furnish about two-fifths of
Westralia’s gold yield. In 40 years Kal-
goorlie has yielded nearly £100,000,000
worth of bullion.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Anxious: (1) A joint life and survivorship
annuity offers the best return. (2) The office
in question is a thoroughly sound one
M.E.R.: Impossible to say what return, if any,
bondholders are likely to receive, or when
payments to them are likely to commence
Murrumbidgee Irrigation: Looks like a hope-
less quest... .R.A.Y.: (1) Yes, but the more
capital returned the easier it will be for the
co. to pay a higher div. and/or bonus on the
remaining capital. Part of the div., therefore,
should be set aside to recoup the premium,
if any, paid for the shares. (2) Hold
E.H.L.: If safety of capital is important, look
the other way... .S.T.S.: A private co.;
figures not broadcast and shares not listed.
J.B.C. and J.M.M.: The bonds are
a long-term speculation, and guesses as to
what they are likely to return, if anything,
aren’t worth much... .A.H.N.: Write secre-
tary Australian Gold Development, 422
Collins-street, Melbourne.. . .C.H.S.: Sell
prefs. and hold ords F.M.: (1) Most im-
portant are pyrolusite, manganite, braunite,
psilomelane and wad; black, greyish or brown-
ish black. (2) Hand-picking and at times
washing are necessary with some ores. (3)
Variable; often nil. (4) Very limited Aus-
tralian market; U.S. America, Canada, Great
Britain, Belgium, France, Germany, Norway
are chief buyers abroad. (5) About £3 to
£3 10s. for 50 p.c. Mn ore. (6) Not less than
50 p.c. Mn in Australia. Large-scale opera-
tions might pay on some of the Queensland
deposits, if a steady overseas market could be
assured. (7) See Queensland Geological
Survey publications Nos. 194 (L. C. Ball,
1904), 268 (B. Dunstan, 1920), and Queensland
Government Mining Journals, January, 1915,
L. C. Ball; March, 1929, C. C. Morton; and
December, 1918, B. Dunstan. (8) Communi-
cate with secretary, Australasian Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy, Collins Court, 374
Little Collins-street, Melbourne.


WHY GOODYEAR
MEANO MILEAGE
ALL
WEATHER
TREAD
CORD
BLOWOUT PROTECTION
IN EVERY PLY
The story of Supertwist Cord is the story of
modern tyre development.
Let's go back a little in tyre history—to the
days of the old fabric tyres which had prac-
tically no stretch. Mileages were low, fabric
breaks were high; it was realised that
ELASTICITY was needed for carcass dur-
ability. As a result the first CORD tyres
were developed to provide greater elas-
ticity.
But the early cord tyres hadn't ENOUGH
of this "give and take" so Goodyear Tyre
Engineers went to work and IN 1922 per-
fected Supertwist Cord a remarkable
achievement in combining maximum
STRENGTH with amazing ELASTICITY.
Supertwist Cord is exclusive to Goodyear.
It STRETCHES AND RECOVERS, without
breaking, up to 61% further than cords
used in ordinary tyres. It gives the Good-
year carcass blow-out protection and the
strength and elasticity to support the
thicker, heavier, wider "G-3" tread and so
pile up remarkable mileages under to-
day's severe driving conditions.
For 14 years the superior quality of
Supertwist Cord has never been
challenged, a sure indication that for
greatest tyre value you should, next
time, buy Goodyear.
THE ALL-WEATHER TREAD.
ANOTHER EXCLUSIVE
GOODYEAR FEATURE.
This famous tread, developed by Goodyear
over 25 years ago, has proved its superior
traction on all kinds of surfaces so conclu-
sively that its basic design has never been
altered. And in the "G-3" Tyre it will give
43% (and more) longer n m-skid mileage.
V
j r
s-04-36.
'i_' C.
MA D E IN AUSTRALIA


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bullant Bill”: S.W. Queens-
land has seen some quaint anti-
rabbit efforts by original-minded
pastoralists. One such bought
up crates of cats at considerable
expense, and turned them loose
in the belief that they would
live on young rabbits. But pussy
only stayed about the home-
stead in great quantities, cater-
wauling, stealing and otherwise
being a general nuisance. Chased
away at last, they were sampled
as food by local abos., pro-
nounced good pfeller tucker—
and then there were none. An-
other sportsman began by buy-
ing up quantities of old news-
papers and employing men to
stuff them into the burrows. The rabbits
dug them out. He thereupon purchased,
at wholesales rates, the entire contents of
a Brisbane Home for Lost Dogs, and
turned loose the resulting truckload of
exceedingly assorted mongs. They
proved a total failure at the job, but as
sheep-killers, fowl-stealers and associates
of dingoes they made an everlasting
reputation for their importer.
* * * *
“Foveaux”: Improvement of their
natural element often has a strange effect
upon fish. While fishing from a boat out-
side Botany Heads recently a party of us
lost a keg of the best. The tap was knocked
out in its plunge overboard, and the
amber fluid was soon tragically mixed
with the stuff that was keeping our craft
afloat. A few minutes later half a dozen
large snapper came to the surface,
gazed contemptuously at the unhappy
fishermen, playfully nosed the baited
hooks (or we think they were baited)
and then swam away.
“8.D.”: Do fish suicide? Some years
ago swarms of catfish, locally known as
cobblers, apparently committed felo de
se in the Swan River (W.A.); this was
in midsummer, when the water was as
clear and salt as the ocean. Sober
observers swore they stung themselves
in the tail and in a few minutes floated,
dead and belly up, to the surface. This
phenomenon continued for a week, and
the shores were strewn with dead.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Swordfish are working
their annual passage down the Queens-
land coast. One of over 12ft. has been
taken in Gloucester Passage, outside
Bowen (N.Q.). Small ones have been
boated by Mooloolaba (S.Q.) mackerel
fishermen, and much larger specimens
have been seen. Sailfish up to sft. and
6ft. are reported from the vicinity of
Double Island (C.Q.), together with large
numbers of tiger sharks, ranging to 15ft.
and more. Soon we shall be losing ex-
pensive mackerel gear to the brutes and
wishing that Zane Grey or some Aus-
tralian enthusiast in the capture of un-
marketable sea nuisances would come
along and take a fly at them. Any sports-
man who cares for a spot of whaling
could get some excitement between Cape
Moreton and Noosa Head in May, when
the humpbacks arrive on their north-
ward passage.
“J.W.G.”: If “Tom Willie” (B.
15/1/’36) cares to take a jaunt to any
locality within a 50-mile radius of Wil-
cannia (N.S.W.) he will find mirages of
almost every shape and size. And they
will not vary as he moves towards them,
but will move as he does, always keeping
within easy walking distance. They are
there all through the summer months —
great phantom thirst-quenching pools,
fringed by trees, whose shadows are
actually mirrored on the surface of the
water. Many times I have seen Dunlop
station woolshed shimmering and quiver-
ing in the sky, just above the treetops,
although the building was actually hidden
by a sandhill and was miles closer than
it appeared to be.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’il”: My vote goes to
limpets as the second-best shellfish.
Taste for them is an acquired one, but
they are little inferior to oysters. Yet
around the Vic. coast one sees thousands
"Yes, that's the cove that got away from Zane Grey."
of these molluscs sprawled over the
rocks and rarely touched. Among the
Cape Barron Island folk (descendants
of century-ago marriages between run-
away sailors, sealers, soldiers, etc., and
Tasmanian gins) these shellfish are a
favored food. I’ve seen them returning
in their whaleboats loaded with boxes of
them.
“Timothy Tywire”: A bushman wear-
ing glasses constantly, or even of the
sun-glare variety only during the day, is
rarely seen; yet the fierce sun-glare on
the open downs and claypans in summer,
and attempts to locate distant objects
through distorting mirages, must put a
severe strain on the sight of outbackers.
Either their eyes are adapting themselves
to conditions or congenitally weak lamps
are to be the lot of future generations.
Which?
* * * *
“Packbag”: One diehard bush publi-
can in N.Q. won’t allow modernists to
break his camaraderie of joining in all
drinks. A commercial traveller, well off
his beat, drove up to the pub verandah
and invited a couple of horizon-gazers
seated there to have a quick one. On
the counter he plumped down the 35.,
the customary price of three drinks. But
the hotelkeeper quietly poured out four
glasses and, leaning across to the c.t.,
questioned, “Where’s the shilling for your
drink?”
* * * *
“Grasspan”: North America, which
resembles Australia in many respects, is
different in one —it has few flies. The
Yankee fly was not exterminated by
human action. There is only one thing
to account for its numbers being
insignificant; that is, the existence of a
parasite which destroys the fly and its
larvae. It is up to Australia to sool its
own scientists on to discover that para-
site. Experience with the Cactoblastis
shows the value of parasites intelligently
used. Some people are of the opinion
that the fly came to Australia with the
horse; but long before there was a
horse on the continent Dampier com-
mented on the myriads of flies on the
North Westralian coast. What flies live
on is a mystery ; a few years back a
scientific body travelled over 20 miles of
country, west of Hermansburg Mission,
without seeing a vestige of any living
thing, animal or vegetable, except flies.
They almost darkened the sunlight.
* * * *
“Flores”: Recalled by “Pinjarrah’s”
mention of watsonias becoming a pastoral
menace (B. 11/12/’35) is the picture of
another escaped bulb that I once met.
It was in the hills between Perth and
Northam, in a little valley where, beside
a creek, someone had once had a hut
and a flower garden. Acres of iris lilies
crowded together in literal millions. Out
in bloom they formed a solid field of
delicate beauty which in my memory
remains unsurpassed.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Interesting results may be
expected from the natural-history expedi-
tion about to work in Central New
Guinea, with an aeroplane to locate and
supply camps. There is an extraordinary
range of bird-life, and the insect fauna
is even more remarkable. Fourteen
species of tree-kangaroos have been
described (Australia has two); our “por-
cupine” (echidna) burgeons out there
into ten or more species, some covered
with long hair, and the largest rat in
the world lives in New Guinea; also the
largest of the flying-foxes. No kan-
garoos, native bears or platypuses have yet
been found, and the dingo is replaced by
a special kind of native dog. Possums
occur in a variety of new species. Also,
there are such interesting possibilites as
the “mountain crocodile,” which takes a
fearsome place in native legends, and
may be a homologue of the giant lizards
of the Dutch Indies. The only pity is
that the material will go to America —
but an Australian ornithologist is in the
party.
* * * *
“M.G.”: In the early days of the
Australian Administration, some remark-
able stories used to come from Papua
to the Commonwealth offices in Mel-
bourne. One took the form of a letter,
ostensibly from a native policeman to
his white officer. It ran: —
To the Divisional Superintendent, Dis-
trict.
Sir,-I have the r honor a to inform you
that, pursuant to your instructions of 18th
ultimo, I pursued the murderer Boogoo-
loogox to the head of the Kmkara Creek,
where I apprehended him. He was return-
ing quietly, but after proceeding a mile he
resisted violently. A fracas ensued, and I
was forced to kill him. I then ate him.
I have the honor*
Qunigalook, P.C. 49.
* * * *
“Bufo”: On a recent snapper trip we
met some unusual visitors to inshore
waters—a gam of sperm whales within
five miles of land. They averaged 50
feet apiece, of which their immense blunt
heads formed a full third. In propor-
tion to the body they have the largest
skulls of all animals. These heads and
the single, forward-flung “spout” of
breath-vapor distinguish them easily
from all other whales. The 15ft. lower
jaw is set with big teeth ; the upper has
a row of small teeth set on the gum to
provide a non-skid grip for the lower
ones. The gullet is wide enough to
swallow a cow. They feed mainly on
squid and octopus, but quite often take
bonitos or albacores—our lot were busy
with something on the surface, probably
Spanish mackerel, but we did not in-
trude. Nor did we find any floating
ambergris—it is a sperm-whale product
entirely, bringing up to 255. an ounce,
according to the market. In 1883, a
M.L. whaler, the Splendid, found £45,000
worth.
* * * *
“Terah”: Anyone tried riding the
dingo down on horseback? Unlike the
fox or ’roo, it runs fairly straight, and
does not wheel when you come on top
of it. If you can get a few hundred yards’
straight run on a fresh horse it is fairly
easy to come up with a dog. Regard-
ing dispatch, few horses can be per-
suaded to trample it. The usual method
is to remove the stirrup leather and iron,
swinging it like a polo stick ; but, as most
horses pull up when you lean out of the
saddle, some practice with other objects
is necessary.
* * * *
“Public Enemy No. 1”: “Cam Cove”
is flogging a dead horse when he at-
tempts to defend the kooka against
charges of nest-robbing and feathered
infanticide (B. 29/1/’36). It has been
proved too often. “C.C.” might ask any
poultry-farmer friend in country where
Jack is plentiful if the hypocritical fowl
likes young chickens. My own intro-
duction to the fraud’s iniquity was in
Brisbane. I was waiting in a back office
overlooking a lot of old iron roofs.
Sparrows had nested in every spout, and
half a dozen Jacks were hard at it pull-
ing out the untidy nests and
gobbling the nestlings whole-
sale. That was in the ’nineties,
but I don’t suppose John has
reformed since.
“Notaden”: “Cam Cove”
must have encountered a singu-
larly law-abiding lot of kooka-
burras, but I’ll admit that of our
two species the blue-winged
(Dacelo leachf) is a more enter-
prising ruffian than his southern-
dwelling relative, D. gigas.
None the less, I have seen both
kill chickens and other small
birds, and rob nests of eggs and
nestlings for dietary purposes.
D. leachi is a confirmed brawler
among his own kind in the mat-
ing season, and a hefty scrapper,
too —I’ve seen a pet magpie
knocked kicking with one beak-
swipe for tweaking Mr. Leach’s
tail. As for coming to a camp
for a handout either kind will
sponge shamelessly whenever
they get a chance.
“Ming”: In a Goulburn
garden we were cherishing a
nest containing three young
goldfinches. A kooka flew
across the orchard with something in his
mouth: ten minutes later he repeated the
performance. The third time suspicion
assailed us, and we rushed out —to find
in the plum-tree an empty nest. Jacko's
laughter from the pine-tree as we raged
against him held a hideous quality of
mockery.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: “If sandflies was as big
as blowies they’d kill a man,” growled
Bill, slapping and scratching at the tiny
grey specks. Possibly they would —the
creature’s venom is out of all proportion
to its bulk. Our pest is not a true sand-
fly, if that is any consolation to the
bitten. Maoriland has the genuine article,
and as far as I’m concerned can keep
it, for its signs of affection are worse
than those of our mere pretenders to the
title. In naming our little devil Cerato-
pogon molestus, the classifiers have for
once shown a sense of humor, but that
is the only humorous thing about it. A
rag, moistened with kerosene and kept
in a tin box to prevent it from drying
out too fast, is a comforting thing for
repelling its attentions. For those with
tender skins a mixture of one part of
citronella oil with three of coconut oil
and a drop or two of carbolic acid will
keep them off for a couple of hours after
application.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: So the shade of a paw-
paw-tree is the best place to woo an
obdurate tropic maid (B. 8/1 /’36)! The
Malay would have none of it. One ot
the first jobs Ahmat completes when he
commences married life is to see that no
pawpaw-tree is growing within 50 yards
of his love-nest. To allow that would
mean that his marriage would be child-
less, and most likely finish up by a visit
to the mosque and a divorce.
DOWN LOYOLA WAY.
Light winds drifting down the valley stir my
tent-fly’s white expanse,
Where in fitful, weird abandon campfire
shadows leap and dance.
Twilight deepens o’er the bushland; with the
falling of the night
Ease has come to weary muscles, worldly cares
are put to flight.
And the pleasant sense of healing, as the mist
of worry clears,
Sets my thoughts a-roving, roving down the
long lanes of the years.
Back to days in golden Gippsland, happy days
of careless play,
When we rode by ridge and gully, hunting
down Loyola way.
Many an afternoon we cantered, leaping fence
and fallen log,
Through the green Loyola pastures, while each
eager, questing dog
Searched among the matted bracken —waving
tail and lowered head;
Then a frantic barking chorus as the quarry
broke and fled.
Hard we chased him to the timber with our
motley hunting pack,
Stumbling down the stony rises, crashing
through the forest wrack,
Till we caught our fox by Watson’s, where
the myrtle saplings sway,
When we rode, by hill and valley, hunting
down Loyola way.
When the final chase was over and the last
red raider slain,
We would jog our tired horses slowly down
the Leebrooke lane,
Down to where the homestead
windows flashed a greeting
through the trees,
Where old friends were given wel-
come and the stranger put at
ease.
Here the country customs lingered—
open hand and open door—
Round the crowded kitchen table
they’d find room for still one
more.
There were song and jest and
laughter at the closing of the
day,
When we rode, with carefree com-
rades, hunting down Loyola
way.
QUEENSLAND.
ELLENVALE.


“Herpeton”: In the matter of abhor-
rence of snakes Ireland has nothing on
Maoriland. A bright' young boa, five-
feet long, was consigned to Wellington
Zoo by a South American admirer, Per-
mission to land was refused—whether it
was asked to read a passage in Maori is
not known —and matters took a tragic
turn. The unfortunate animal was
chloroformed, then beheaded, then put
in cold storage until the owner was heard
from. Boas are harmless brutes except,
perhaps, when they attain great size, and
the M.L. hysteria is hard to understand.
Possibly the Customs people couldn’t
find a boa among the n.e.i. imports and
classified him in despair as an Australian
lemon, just as the railway porter classed
a tortoise as an insect for freight pur-
poses.
“Bufo”: With the advent of summer,
Queensland’s snake-yarn crop grows
apace. After a doctor had parked his
car by the wayside to visit' a patient at
Maroochydore (S.Q.), a snake was seen
to enter it. Close search by the agitated
medico and a number of lay assistants
failing to locate the intruder, the car
was put on a ramp for further investiga-
tion, and the reptile dislodged from a
snug berth underneath. A sft. brown-
snake killed near Chinchilla (s.-w. Q.)
was found to contain a freshly swallowed
whip-snake inches longer than its de-
vourer. But the best experience to date
is that of a man at Eumundi (S.Q.).
He was drinking from a waterbag, which
had been left uncorked. Feeling some-
thing slipping down his throat with the
cooling draught, he clenched his teeth
on it, and drew out a small, live, green
tree-snake. That sort of thing is what
makes bushmen give up water as a drink.
* * * *
“G.E.”: Though the starling builds an
untidy nest, he takes trouble to secure
material to his liking. Not only is he
attracted to sheep by the parasites they
add to his menu, but he finds that their
wool makes a warm lining for his home.
Accustomed to fleecing sheep with im-
punity, a starling at the Southland (M.L.)
racecourse was seen to transfer its atten-
tion to a rabbit, deeming its fur superior
to wool. Hopping up to the rabbit, which
was engrossed in feeding, the bird pecked
out a piece of fur. The rabbit sat up
in astonishment; then, seeing the star-
ling coming for a second helping, it
lashed out with its feet. It was the star-
ling’s turn to be surprised, and it waddled
away a sadder and wiser bird.
* * sfc
“Timothy Tywire”: As a weather-
indicator the moon is still the bushman’s
standby. If the new moon appears with
both tips on a level, it’s a “dry moon” ;
if tilted, it’s a “wet” one, and rain will
follow within a month. Not even
frequent disappointments in abnormal
years or the contention of scientists
that the moon has nothing to do with
the weather can shake his belief in this.
If challenged, he always points trium-
phantly to rain having fallen somewhere
in Australia!
* * * *
“Beargrass”: Melbourne Zoo has
been meeting a heap of trouble of late.
A dingo broke loose and killed ten
wallabies, a £lO chimpanzee died from
natural causes, a pelican swallowed a
rare silver seagull, and now an epidemic
has killed off nearly all the snakes, includ-
ing those used for laboratory purposes.
The snake ailment is not apparently con-
fined to the Zoo, for distant and widely
separated parts of Victoria also report
mysteriously dead snakes. “Good
job if it gets them all! ” I remarked to a
medical man. He shook his head. “The
researches into snake virus for curative
purposes have only just begun,” he said.
“Even to-day it is largely used and found
valuable. Snakes kill only a very few
people every year; it is probable that,
even at this early stage, more lives are
saved by the medical use of the venom
than are sacrificed by snakebite. It is
“’S like this, boay —I cudden find t'old paintbrush nowhere .”
a dangerous thing to interfere with
nature.” I remember a Sydney scientist
telling me that a shark-free sea would
mean a serious depletion of our fish
supply. Sharks live mostly on the poor
fish we call salmon. Were there no
sharks, the salmon would multiply so
rapidly as to exterminate edible varieties.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Following a recent sudden
deluge in the Mallee country (Vic.), cul-
tivated wheatfields were submerged till
only the heads of the crops stood above
the surface. Then the wild ducks of the
region had a beano. They came in com-
panies, till thousands were busily feast-
ing. Nothing but bare stalks remained
when the floods had subsided and the
looters had departed.
*** * »
“Coolibah”: Horse Tailer” claims that
white-ants do not gnaw their way through
metal (B. 11/12/’35), but do the job with
a corrosive acid. In W.A. and other parts
the termites have found their way
“ Couldn't borrer a stopwatch , boss; but one of them trainers reckoned
this calendar'd do.”
through the lead jacketings of electric
cables and on through the rubber insula-
tion. Lead itself is a great acid-resister,
but rubber is impervious to all but
hydrofluoric acid. White-ants have been
known to find their way through thin
concrete. If the termites have a cor-
rosive at their command, it must be a
particularly potent one.
“Plankton”: Living among the corals
below high-water mark around the Great
Barrier Reef is a curious marine spider
(Desis). At low tide it preys on small
crustaceans, and when the tide rises
retires to a waterproof submarine shelter,
after the fashion of its fresh-water rela-
tive. This species is a dinkum spider, and
quite unrelated to those strange spidery
marine creatures known as pycnogonids,
which include the whale-louse. Another
example of Nature’s vagaries found liv-
ing in rock pools on our Australian coasts
is the marine caddis-fly (Plebejus
marinus ). Its aquatic larvae build cases
similar to those of fresh-water species,
utilising limy coralline seaweeds for the
purpose.
* * * ■ *
“Speewaa”: Bird-lovers in Melbourne
are worrying over the means of dealing
with overgrown beaks of pet cockatoos.
Some advocate amputation of the redun-
dant horn; others suggest giving the
bird a chunk of wood to whittle away.
But excess of beak does not seem to
harm most cockatoos. Cocky Bennett,
of Kurnell, had a beak six inches long
for years prior to his death, and this
fowl’s life-span was said to be consider-
ably over a century. In fact, his ad-
mirers averred that he was the original
cockat'oo who in 1770 flew down from
a gum-tree at Kurnell and remarked,
“Captain Cook, I presume?”
* * * *
“Ghealug”: A Philadelphian S.P.C.A.
journal published an article stating that
goats which had been left years ago on
Raine Island, at the northern end of the
Barrier Reef, were starving, and that
they had been seen climbing trees to eat
the foliage. It would be interesting to
know who saw them, because only
Japanese and native shell-divers ever
come within sight of this lonely island.
However, the report reached the local
authorities, via London, and a Torres
Strait patrol was extended from Murray
Island to Raine Island to investigate.
There were no goats nor any signs that
they had ever been there. Moreover,
there is not a single tree on the island.
The masonry of the old beacon erected
by convict labor about 1840 still rears
its 40ft. of bulk at the northern end of
the island, to mark the Raine Entrance
of the Barrier. The island is literally
alive with a screaming swarm of nesting
birds, chiefly booby-birds, and their
chicks. There is no mistaking the spot —
the guano reeks to the high heavens.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: Saw a solitary mother-
less chicken being shepherded by a ring-
dove the other day. The diminutive
foster-mother gathered the bereft one
under her wing, and made quite a fuss
when danger threatened from the family
dog. Something new in my experience.
“Grip”: Cases of cats mothering pups
and of dogs transferring their affection to
kittens are not uncommon, while on odd
occasions cats have proved good foster-
parents for chickens ; but at Bribie Island
(Q.) the latter position has been reversed.
A hen took a fancy to three kittens soon
after they were born, and for hours sits
with her wings and feathers spread gently
over her strangely-adopted family, settling
her position always to allow the three
little heads free breathing space. Mother
cat has to bide her time and dodge the
infuriated hen before she can feed her
offspring.
* * * *
“G.G.2”: Before “C.C.C.” decides that
his green-stone axehead came from the
coast (B. 20/11/ ’35) he’d better ride about
60 miles west of where he found it on
Cawnpore (W.Q.). That, if he strikes the
right line, will lead him into Mt. Datson,
on Warenda station. I have never seen
“C.C.C.’s” stone, but from his descrip-
tion I’d reckon he would find quite a
bit of that on Datson. While he is there
he can also have a look at the box spring
at the foot of the mountain. For years
I had a curved tusk which, if straight-
ened, would be anything up to 18in. long.
That came out of Box Spring. It
appeared to be solid ivory.
* * * *
“Ned”: “Flight” is wrong in assert-
ing that the creation of bird sanctuaries
does no good (B. 15/1/’36). One has
only to observe the increase in bird life
about Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.) i*i
recent years to realise the good effect the
law has had. Previous to its introduc-
tion, sportsmen had driven off most of
the native water-fowl; now the lake is
the evening resting-place of thousands of
swans, wild ducks and pelicans.
* * * *
“Thinanclear”: Old Andy had been
away with cattle. Returning, with a
blackboy, he found not a skerrick of
tucker at the (for the nonce) abandoned
homestead, but the chooks had pre-
sented him with two eggs. They boiled
them. “Orright,” growled Andy to the
blackboy, “I’ll have the eggs ; you’ll have
the soup.” And it was even so.
* * * *
“Bryan”: My thanks to “M.R.P.” for
his discourse on the reactions of various
types of skins when exposed to
sunlight (B. 18/12/’35). In pre-
paration for the summer season
I began a systematic course of
sunbaking, commencing with a
few minutes and slowly working
up to several hours at a stretch.
Unfortunately my skin seems to
be a combination of all three
types. My forearms are an even
brown; my back and shoulders
are a mass of freckles, and these
latter parts have also developed
a Tarzan-like growth of hair.
Unless “M.R.P.” can suggest a
remedy, jt looks as if I’ll have
to do my future baking in an
overcoat.
“Homo”: Though it is generally be-
lieved that natives are expert bushmen,
my experience with the New Guinea
variety is to the contrary —even in their
own particular country. Came upon a
survey party in the bush who sent a
“boy” with me to take me to their camp
four miles away. Six hours later the
guide admitted he was lost. After an
uncomfortable night in the jungle I dis-
covered at daylight that we were within
a quarter of a mile of our starting point.
Extraordinarily, the latency in this re-
spect with mountain tribes is offset by
a most highly-developed sense of direc-
tion in salt-water natives, who experience
no difficulty in navigating their canoes
on a straight course when miles out of
sight of land on the open sea.
THE FREE-SPEECH CHAMPION.
Free speech was Alick’s master card: it had
no stouter friend than he;
His verbal spells he used to weave about the
folk of Bygumgee.
He never missed a chance to get an audience
round the fire at night,
And, pipe in hand, to speak a piece on human
beings’ prescriptive right.
His reputation got about in shed and station,
camp and town
For fearless fighting in the Cause, till finally
they put him down
For pre-selection. On the stump he spoke
himself into a screech
In strong defence of what he claimed for all —-
a free, unfettered speech.
He topped the poll, with votes to burn. But
as a member soon he found
A bachelor was handicapped; and so he took
a look around,
In fact, a good few looks, until at last he
settled on his choice:
A widow, masterful, but with a wad to match
his booming voice.
He’s far too busy now to make free speech a
Cause —those days are gone.
In fact, he clean forgets the thing until elec-
tioneering’s on.
Then, when some goat asks questions Alick
doesn’t know a thing about,
He merely gives the cop a nod, and one more
heckler’s shouldered out!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


HITS
LYS
ft
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
P- ; v
gfee&y
f 4'.'.
■
■atevj.t&g
Dw
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Wool Terms and Definitions.
“Bungaree”: It is surprising how many
of the terms in everyday use in the wool
trade are either vaguely understood or
misinterpreted by graziers.
It may seem superfluous to give the
definition of a bale, yet, strictly speak-
ing, if it does not conform to certain
regulations its destiny may be affected.
A bale of scoured wool must have a
minimum gross weight of 1001 b. A bale
of greasy wool must weigh at least 2001 b.
If it weighs less, it is known as a butt,
and is sold and displayed with bags and
all the weird oddments of the sale floor.
In Sydney a line comprising one to four
bales is sold, catalogued and displayed with
the star lots ; five-bale lines and over are
shown in the big lots. In some selling
centres a four-bale lot is eligible for the
main catalogue. Sometimes wool arrives
for sale done up in a big shapeless pack-
age —wrapped in hessian or bags sewn
together ; this is known as a fadge, and
is sold with the butts and bags.
Tare is the weight of the container in
which the wool is packed. Unless other-
wise stated, a. woolpack is taken as
weighing ll|lb., a corn or potato sack
31b., a chaffbag 21b., a sugarbag lib.
These weights are deducted on sale
accounts, and also when pressers are
being paid by the hundredweight.
Draft is the much-debated allowance
under which the buyer pays for only 11 lib.
of every hundredweight gross of wool he
takes. This derives from an old English
custom designed to cover loss in transit,
and modern buyers of all nationalities
are not inclined to give it up.
Spinning Count is a standard of fine-
ness of wool based on its manufacturing
capabilities. Under the Bradford system
the standard length of a hank of yarn
is 560 yards, so the number of such
hanks that lib. of combed top of a par-
ticular type will produce determines its
spinning count. Certain types have been
standardised by mill men and are known
as 70’s, 64’s, 56’s, etc. —the finer the wool
the higher the spinning count —and those
standards form the basis of wool-class-
ing, -sorting, -buying—in fact, of the
entire trade.
Yield refers to the percentage of clean
wool a parcel of greasy wool is estimated
to contain. Thus, if the yield of a lot
is stated as 56 p.c., it implies that 441 b.
out of each 1001 b. greasy is represented
by yolk, dust and other impurities which
will be removed in the scouring process.
This loss in weight is also referred to as
shrinkage.
“Carbo” (or carbonising) wools are
those carrying heavy burr. Light burr
may be removed in combing, but heavy
burr needs extra treatment with sulphuric-
acid solution and by carbonisation.
Noil is the short, wasty fibres—second
cuts, wasty tip, etc.—removed during
the combing process. The quantity varies
with the type of wool, and the ratio of
top to noil is referred to as “tear” (not
to be confused with “tare”).
A warp wool is one possessing sound-
ness and particularly good length for its
type.
Weft wools, not needing the tensile
strength required of a warp, comprise
the shorter, wastier wools.
Top is wool that has been scoured,
carded and combed, and in this form is
the staple of the textile market, whose
fluctuations decide the price of raw wool.
Choosing a Southdown.
“Downie”: Constitution and adequate
heart room are essential in Southdowns,
which are purely fat-lamb breeders. The
ideal is a body almost as square as a
petrol-case, with short, sturdy legs end-
ing in reasonably large hooves, not quite
as large as a Romney’s. There should
be strong pasterns, not straight-set, so
that the jumbuck can move actively.
Above the pastern the bone should
slope back like a good horse’s shoulder.
The shoulder should be flat and wide on
top, the back strong and wide, the loin
flat, the ribs deep and well-sprung,
the rump flat and square to the tail.
The neck should be broad, strong
and short, finished with a flat poll.
The animal should be wide between
the eyes and ears, and have a medium-
length face with broad, open, wide
nostrils and strong, deep underjaw,
square with the teeth.
Look for a soft, mousy-colored face
with plenty of expression in the ram.
The color should be even on head and
feet, whether light or dark. There should
be no horns.
Southdown wool is of secondary value
as wool, but should be dense, fine and
even to prove the health and quality of
the animal. The skin should be baby-
pink under the wool on a youngster, and
should have a glow suggestive of good
health.
Class the Crutchings.
“Rom Ney”: I don’t regard the
crutchings as waste that can be chucked
into a bag and sold for whatever any-
body is fool enough to pay. Careful
handling will often go a long way to-
wards paying for the job. If crutching
is done properly (inside of legs and well
up over tail), there is a lot of unstained
wool. Separate this from the stained
and short sweat locks and bag or bale
as a line on its own. Use the boards
adopted for picking up lambs’ wool to
pick up crutchings; carry them to the
wool-table, separate stained from clean,
and put the stained in the sun to dry.
Stained wool is unsuitable for dyeing,
and therefore cheaper than clean wool.
If stained wool is pressed with clean, the
stain will permeate much df the clean.
Mark the clean wool “pieces,” the
sweat locks “crutchings” and the stained
as “stained.” This applies to crutchings
from fairly long-woolled sheep. If fol-
lowed, the practice will mean a definite
return from what many regard as waste.
Those who are crutching now should
be careful to apply antiseptic to
machine cuts. The flies may become
bad any time this month.
Kerosene v. Pink-eye.
“Wally D.”: I am convinced that
“Lion” is wrong in his statement (B.
22/1/’36).
The last two years the weaners in my
C.Q. locality have had pink-eye badly.
In some of them the pupil of the eye
was covered with a white, puttylike film
that could be removed with the blunt end
of a small twig, these and others going
completely blind. At first only about
3 p.c. were noticed in the flock, and
these were treated by squirting kerosene
into the eyes.
It certainly cured the affected ones,
but when others were seen to be getting
bad the lot were yarded and all given a
charge of kerosene from an ordinary oil-
can in both eyes. It was no time before
they were absolutely free from the pest.
The weaners were put back into the
paddock where they had contracted
p.-e., and no more affected sheep have
been noticed until lafely, when the flock
can hardly be seen for the long grass,
which, I believe, is p.-e.’s chief ally.
Ages of “Aged” Sheep.
“Lion”: Tell “Sheepo” that his re-
marks about compulsory age-marking
(B. 1/1 / ’36) have met with no approval
from sheepowners to whom I mentioned
the subject.
Objections are many. Those who have
their own system don’t intend to alter
it, and, if they were forced to do so, it
would be some time before the new sys-
tem could operate, because of stock
already marked.
Anyone who has done much buying
in the open market will know that if
you cannot judge the age of a sheep from
its mouth it is best to give up business.
Admittedly country alters the mouth
of a sheep, but it seldom alters the all-
important eighth tooth. The alteration
takes place in the middle teeth, and if
they are bad the sheep should be judged
and valued accordingly, irrespective of
age, known or otherwise. All the com-
pulsory age-marking in the world won’t
alter that.
Technique all boils down to one rule:
Learn to judge the age of a sheep under
all conditions.
Feeding and Disease.
“Molecule”: The Committee on Cattle
Diseases appointed by the Economic
Advisory Council (Eng.) reported that
“the milking life of a cow is only half
that which might be expected under ideal
conditions” ; that “58 p.c. of the cows
passed out of herds are disposed of on
account of disease”; that “at least 40 p.c.
of cows are infected with bovine tuber-
culosis, an equal number with contagious
abortion and 38 p.c. of the milking cattle
of this country are probably infected with
mastitis other than tubercular mastitis.”
Another English authority states that
only 4 p.c. of cows are passed out of
English herds through old age. A Dutch
expert states that 41 p.c. of Holland’s
milkers are infected with contagious
abortion.
No figures are available for Australia.
It may be that, owing to our more favor-
able climate, we are not so badly off.
A. H. H. Fraser advocates a return
to more natural methods of animal hus-
bandry, some advice which Australia is
in q much better position than most
other countries to follow. “Where culti-
vated pasture forms the basis of inten-
sive stock farming,” says this expert,
“mineral-deficiency diseases can be prac-
tically ruled out.”
Not long ago a “complete” ration
meant one supplying the necessary pro-
teins, carbohydrates and fats in their
proper ratio. Later, the importance of
minerals became established, and later
still vitamins were added to the essential
constituents of the adequate diet. Can
it be that there are yet other substances,
the nature of which remains to be dis-
covered, which are just as necessary as
those named? Fraser admits the pos-
sibility, pointing out that, if you take
away the components of a good pasture
mentioned in a conventional analysis,
much remains.
It appears to me that the dairyman
and beef-raiser will get better results
from permanent pasture improvement
than from an increasing use of concen-
trates, whilst the sheepman must cease
leaving it to Nature to provide the grass
and give the old lady a hand.
Why Fine Dairy-type Varies.
“Stump Jump”: The purely milking
breeds —A. 1.5., Jersey, Ayrshire and
Guernsey—have each been developed on
unique types of country. When they
leave it variations in the progeny of
their own type occur, which mostly tend
towards a development of beefiness,
where leanness is required. In the
Shorthorn types this is accentuated by
a natural tendency to throw back to old
Bates stock, once common in southern
N. S. Wales.
Some variations are due entirely to
the feed of the new districts and
weather. Most dairymen try to simulate
the original conditions by regulating the
ration of the calf when rearing it, but
the damage which causes type variation
is often well started before the calf’s
birth. The diet of the dam during
most of pregnancy must be similar to
the original reproduction conditions if
type is to be maintained.
With the four breeds, development to
a fixed type in the early days took place
on good, rich pastures, except that they
were poor in lime and other minerals,
mainly potash. Because of this, the stock
were always drawing heavily on bone
for milk calcium; thus our fine-boned
dairy-type was evolved.
To keep it going on richer mineralled
country—and avoid milk-fever trouble
at the same time —during pregnancy the
cow must not be fed bonemeal and
dicalcic phosphate licks above her milk-
ing requirements. When not in calf, any
depletion of bone in minerals should
be made up as fast as possible.
If the cow is given bonemeal and licks
liberally three weeks before calving, and
until she is served, her bone loss will be
made up. A calculated quantity added
to her feed for the balance of the term,
to replace what she gives out in milk,
will do the rest, without overdoing it for
the developing calf.
Incidentally, good, rich, “supered”
pastures are essential in reproducing
these original conditions. Calcium or
lime and potash quantities are the chief
variants to be allowed for.
A “Poddy” Machine.
“Aerogenes”: I haven’t used the
poddy-feeding machine described by
“Plankton.” (B. 1/1 / ’36), but I still pin
my faith to a system in which the calves
are fed in individual bails, from separate
dishes.
A row of 20 little calf stalls is not a
big or expensive building, and the saving
in time and prevention of wastage soon
pay for it. In front of each animal is
a dish, set up at a convenient height, pro-
tected from the next calf and easily
removable, so that it can be washed out
and turned up to dry.
The ordinary stamped-out tin wash-
basin is best, as it is seamless and can be
kept much cleaner than a jumble of
troughing, valves, pipes and nipples.
Twenty calves can be fed in 15 minutes,
which is a great advantage over “Silky
Bag’s” bucket system. Calves can easily
be taught to drink from a dish, and the
new habit makes it easy to feed them
dry feed, gruel, eggs or medicine. The
early familiarity with a bail makes it
easy to “break them in” later on; there
is practically no breaking—they just walk
in beside their mates, as in their young
days.
The most conspicuous advantage of
dish feeding is that' each calf can be fed
individually, which definitely must be
done to get the best results.
Points in Calf-raising.
“J. Want”: Care of calves should begin
before they are born. It is bad practice to
turn a dry, pregnant cow into any old pad-
dock full of native grasses simply because
she is not earning. It shortens the cow’s
life, cuts down her future production
{Continued on page 24.)


m
m
BH
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITALj London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
World’s Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
COMES TO AUSTRALIA
AND SCORES AN INSTANT SUCCESS!
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN-
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY IT!
No More Stomach Pain
Prof. H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder Is
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most
effective ever devised as a remedy for
»>
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Dyspepsia, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Palpitation, Nausea, Acidity, Stomach
Ulceration, etc.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100%
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS -NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief—the most worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Fails! You may be offered
something said to be “just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this
“H.M.” device on the package. Take
no excuse accept no substitute.
ĵ
Genuine Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder is sold only in White Pack-
ages with Black - and - Red Printing.
[ Every doctor, tlie World over recognises the
pre-eminence of Prof. Maclean, in modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions is now avail-
able to YOU. In future, eat what you fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights are claimed to th#
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what-
ever in connection with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON ■ MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for any form of Digestive and
Stomach upset accompanied by Acid, Gas or Nausea.
If supplies of HARRISON-MACLEAN STOMACH POWDER not available locally, post order
(adding 4d. postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney.


A Shoe to suit
The Careful Man
£6
%
25/-
For the man who is careful
qbout his clothes, careful about
the value, the quality and,
above all, the appearance and
fit, we have made a Shoe
which will suit his taste com-
pletely.
This Abbey Model is made in
high-grade Black and Brown
Calf and in full and half
sizes.
Price: Black or Brown Calf,
25/-.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY. WA 16.
m
mm
mm
* m
m ■
The World's Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company.
Incorporated in 1923, N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS, LTD., has planted 163,000
acres with over 130,000,000 trees, and
built 250 miles of roads.
AMOUNT SUBSCRIBED
FOE FORESTRY
INVESTMENTS .. .. ..
£4,000,000
RESERVE FOR MAIN-
TENANCE AND REALI-
SATION (APPROX.)
£1,000,000
Mill sites have been selected and secured and
internal transport system surveyed.
Initial Sulphate Pulp and Paper Making
Plant Secured.
While there is still an opportunity to partici-
pate in the Company’s investment issues of
i'3o Investments, apply for full particulars to:
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
(Incorporated in New Zealand) .
Head Office for Australia:
KEMBLA BUILDING,
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
No connection with any
other Forestry Company.
WATCH
YOUR MONEY
GROW
M
"nUTM(OJ
man;*
MARE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Supply Seventy Household
Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer—best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. AVrite JOHN GIIiMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Sltmess
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
WE STAND ALONE FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY
j
j
ĵ
N°!74
COWBOY SADDLE
£lB/5/-
The seat and cantle are in one piece of
solid leather and the bastos are lined with
woolly sheepskin. It is three-quarter
rigged with eord cincha and wood stirrux»s.
For Cash with Order We Pay N.S.W.
Freight.
COWBOY RIDING BOOTS
American pattern, made in Black Kip,
fancy stitched, llin. heel 77/6
Post: 2/- N.S.W.; 3/6 Q., Vic. 1
Cowboy Bridles, Spurs, Chaparajos, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON,
LTD.,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
JTuffyttlleiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
and does harm to the calf, which will
be born undernourished. At this time,
the dam should have plenty of proteins,
given in concentrates or in carefully regu-
lated leguminous rations, either green or
in hay or chaff.
After the calf is born it should be re-
moved before it has time to suck. Only
the colostrum milk should be kept for
the youngster.
Teaching a baby to suck on a finger is
a bad method unless the animal has a
tendency to gulp. Give measured quan-
tities —from 4ilb. to sylb. weight of milk
at a meal. When the hollow in front of
the left hip has filled out so that the skin
is level with surrounding contours,
dinner time should be reckoned as over.
Authorities differ about the two- and
three-feeds-a-day methods, but generally
speaking two feeds —morning and evening
—are enough, unless there are signs of
falling off, when a third meal is worth
trying. But feeding should be meticu-
lously watched throughout. Dirty water,
dirty troughs and too-full stomachs
cause more scours than all other influ-
ences put together.
During the first three weeks, the milk
fed should be whole and warm —about
blood heat. After that, a proportion of
separated milk should be gradually in-
creased in the ration until, at five weeks
old, the calf gets nothing but separated
milk. In the last week, begin to add a
teaspoonful of boiled linseed, increasing
it till it becomes a tablespoonful. From
then onward there need be no greater
ration, but the calf should have access to
water and green picking, with a little
crushed oats, trough-fed, and a bit of
lucerne or oaten hay—no chaff.
Clean food and not too much, clean
water in abundance, clean troughs and
an open-air life in paddocks with plenty
of shelter from wind and enough shade
are the first essentials of a healthy calf.
Get Ready for Lucerne.
“X.T.”: This is the month in which
to begin to get ready for next year’s
lucerne-planting in districts which need
fallowing. Alfalfa is a slow-grower, and
autumn is the bane of weeds which, in
periods of more prolific growth, may
choke out young legumes.
Land should be carefully ploughed and
cleared of weeds and couch grass. In
alluvial soils the furrow should be about
7in. deep ; on more porous soils 4in. is
enough.
Through the winter it should be
allowed to lie in the rough, to be broken
down in spring with a harrow, and
worked two or three times through the
summer with a cultivator to prevent
fresh growth and the formation of a
crust. It may sound a lot of trouble,
but in dry districts success depends en-
tirely on thorough cultivation and the
provision of a fine-surfaced seedbed
which will conserve moisture.
Just before seed is sown a light plough-
ing should be given ; but it should not
be too deep, lest it bring up soil not
so well cultivated and fertilised as that
near the surface? where the seeds are
sown and where the young plants draw
their fertility.
Napier Grass.
“Harrowby”: “Ghanam” asks (B.
18/12/’35) if Napier grass has been tried
in the wetter parts of northern Australia.
It has, and appears to have very little to
commend it. One of the large meat com-
panies also tried it in far-northern Aus-
tralia, and came to the same conclusion
as the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
—that there were more suitable grasses.
(The department issued a bulletin on it
which has sunk into limbo.)
The chief disadvantage of Napier grass
is that propagation is only possible
through roots or cuttings. It spreads
slowly, and requires a minimum annual
rainfall of 25 inches (or an ample summer
rainfall). It must be eaten off frequently
to prevent coarse or rank growth.
According to the N.S.W. Government
Agristologist, Napier grass is of most
value as a drought fodder if sown in
rows along the fences.
The department will supply roots to
anyone anxious to experiment.
Hints for the Farm.
“Whalebone”: To select good splitting
trees when cutting posts or rails, inspect
the bark. Plenty of spirals and twists
means either a crooked or cross-grained
wood. Trees whose bark is plain or
marked by perpendicular straight lines
and grooves are the ones to pick.
“Walliew”: Before feeding Strawberry
with chaff from a feed-box run the hands
quickly through the feed —there are
sometimes nails and needles to be found
in chaff. I have had two valuable cows
killed through their swallowing these
articles.
“Pick”: To lessen the danger of foot-
rot when crutching sheep, have at hand
an old blade-shears with which to shape
up abnormal trotter growths. Trim
elongated toes, pare horny fringes and
generally clip the feet to their correct
form and size. Open the underfoot ducts,
and from them clean all rot. Give each
doctored foot a painting of thin tar.
“Glentronie”: Don’t try to screw a
bent pipe into a socket. It is nearly im-
possible to do it without breaking the
threads. Screw the socket well back
along the pipe to which it is attached.
Lay your bent pipe up to it and then
screw your socket back on to the bent
pipe.
“Whalebone”: Liquid left in the bath
after dipping is over makes a good black-
berry exterminator if poured in a trench
around the roots after the foliage has
been cut away.
“The 0.D.”: Don’t make raddle-
marks on the wool of sheep. Discolora-
tion of the fleece annoys the buyer. If
you must distinguish the jumbucks,
raddle their faces. They’re easier to see
coming up the race. Put some powdered
raddle in a jute bag, tie it to the end
of a 15in.-long stick, and give the chosen
sheep a dab on the face with the bag.
It’s quick and easy.
“Glentronie”: Automatic shutting-off
mill gear, almost a necessity on large
holdings, can be made as follows: An
airtight drum, floated in the reservoir
tank, is connected by means of a pole
or pipe with the shutting-off wire of the
mill. A fulcrum is placed so that when
the drum is floating the mill has been
pulled out of gear by the lever.
“Specker”: How many lambs has one
ewe been known to produce? A woolly
owned by a Tunbridge (Tas.) cocky is
responsible for a progeny of 24 lambs in
eight years—quadruplets, six lots of trip-
lets and one pair of twins. All were
healthy. Sixteen of this farmer’s small
flock this season bore 37 lambs, made
up of five lots of triplets and 11 pairs of
twins.
“Emel”: Though the Victorian Mallee
has never been considered sheep coun-
try, it produced the most valuable fleece
shown at the Melbourne Centenary
Royal Show. This, a bright, stylish
merino ram fleece of from 60’s to 64’s
quality, weighing 271 b. 120 z., and valued
at £1 ss. 6id., was grown by George
Lannin, of Lillimur (Vic.). Although
over a hundred fleeces were exhibited,
Mr. Lannin won four first prizes and
one second in the section.
“Agemark”: I agree with “Ghanam”
(B. 25/12/’35) that clean water is most
necessary for stock, especially for sheep
watering at troughs. A line of 3000 ewes
was purchased and pastured on our
property (W.Q.),' and, though the feed
was good, they lost condition during the
first month. The water, pumped from a
sub-artesian bore, was brackish, and the
ewes did not take kindly to it. How-
ever, we found that, although the
Mitchell grass had become considerably
drier, the sheep rapidly improved in con-
dition when the troughs were cleaned out
every other day.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Prospects of poultry-farming on or near the
coast of New South Wales ? Approximate capi-
tal needed, suitable district, approx, price of
land ? —B3.
Returns obtained from poultry flocks during
the past four years have not been attractive,
but prospects are brighter for those with enough
capital and experience. The capital needed to
build a farm and breed up a flock of 10w
layers would be from £l2OO to £l5OO, accord-
ing to locality and type of cottage. There is
suitable land in most districts within 40 miles
of Sydney at £3O to £5O per acre.


SMOKE-OH!
Discovery 11. Right off the ice.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Problem.
On one end of the park seat sat the
student, bending over his book. On the
other end sat a fair young lady, accom-
panied by a child.
The student’s eyes were keen ; his lips
were pressed firmly together ; his whole
attitude was suggestive of deep contem-
plation.
He was debating within himself a
question, carefully weighing the evidence
for and against it. It was a question
which might prove of vital importance,
and he was searching for the ultimate
truth with all the eagerness of his young
mind.
But it had nothing to do with the
book. Oh, no! He was trying to ascer-
tain whether the young lady near by was
the child’s mother or —happy thought!
merely its nurse.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Garden Pests.
Wife’s Relatives. —Although these
brutes look timid, they sneak round the
garden nipping off all the best blooms
and cutting huge slips from your favor-
ite plants. Entirely immune to most
treatment; hide exceptionally thick.
Cricket Balls. —The rapid spread of
these pests can be traced to small boys
in the neighborhood. In dealing with
them the main thing is to keep your
temper. They may knock huge holes in
your melons or make your prize dahlias
look silly ; but the only way is to encour-
age them. Get annoyed, and the pests
will invariably return. Offer to play
cricket with the small boys, and they
will depart to another paddock.
Hilarious Friends are mysterious nuis-
ances who can be traced by their foot-
marks all over the garden. They always
tramp all over the best plants, but never
on snails. It is no use watching for them
at night. They make raids when you
are having a night out yourself. Although
you might think you were in the garden
at the same time as the pests, you can
never remember seeing them. The best
thing is just to become resigned to them.
Whatever you do, don’t mention them to
your wife.
S. Esq.
•I#
“Not only did he take the horse from the
buggy, but he removed every piece of har-
ness .'"—“Hera Id.”
Left no traces.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Mechanics of Cooking.
“Home-made Cakes. —sft. 6in. x 13in.
double-sided electric tube sign, perfect order,
for sale, cheap.”
Personally, I prefer cakes slightly
smaller, specially when they are home-
made ; but it’s so seldom they’re in per-
fect order. Sunday-night boarding-
house cakes, for instance, nearly always
require decarbonising. The last one I
tasted had a decided knock somewhere
about the big-end.
Streamlining in home-made cakes has
become very popular ; but when select-
ing one a thorough inspection of the
mechanism should be made. The pres-
ence of grit or dirt indicates that in-
ferior lubricants have been used. Take
no notice of the fine upholstery outside.
See, instead, that there is plenty of kick
in the battery and that the compression
is not too heavy.
D. S.
A Public-spirited Offer.
The hon. secretary of the Beer Fan-
ciers’ Association dictates a letter to the
Civil Aviation Department:
Shir, —It having been brought to the
notice of thish ossash —association that
your department, under a new regula-
tion, requiresh every airman to pass an
extremely difficult tesht in flying “blind,”
I am inshtructed to inform you that my
ossash hie assosh hie executive
will be pleased to prepare candidates for
teshtsh.
Your department ish to be congratu-
lated on thish forward shtep, ash it ish
thish ossash — hie —our opinion that fly-
ing when merely shober ish not suffi-
cient indication of an airman’sh ability.
No pilot knowsh, for instansh, when
shome maniacal passenger might, while
in mid-air, forsh him to drink shome of
the beer he (the passenger) wash carry-
ing. Or perhapsh a barrel of beer he
had aboard ash freight might burst', and
the precious liquid shpray over him.
The shtandard set by thish ossash — hie
—body ish exshtremely high, and your
department may resht assured that,
should you agree to co-operate, we will
guarantee, provided the requisite time ish
allowed in which to prepare them, to
have the candidatesh ash perfectly
“blind” as it ish possible for them to be.
I might add that thosh membersh com-
“True, I invited you and y'r family, but I didn't know you had so many."
“Neither did We till We got half-Way.”
prising the committee dealing with the
degree of alcoholic condition attained
have all had a vasht experiensh.
Though none of the members of my
ossash—dammit —association are quali-
fied pilots, a keen interest in your pro-
nouncement hash been manifeshted, and
they are looking forward with pleasure
to the proposed co-operation.
If your department is as civil as you
claim to be, an early ansher will be
exshpected. —Yours etc., G. I. Tippett,
hon.— hie —secretary, per
S. W. K.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Defendant had promised to give plaintiff
a start in his shop, but, when he appeared,
defendant threatened him with a revolver.”
-— “Sun.”
Well, didn’t that give him a start?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Logic.
Mrs. Dyngbatte sang happily as she
put her husband’s tea out. She had
scored a great personal success at the
club that afternoon with her lecture on
“Why Woman’s Logic Is Superior to
Man’s.” She had been rapturously
applauded. Even that detestable, hatchet-
faced Mrs. Soanso whom she had beaten
for the presidency, and who was so
jealous of her oratory, had been nice to
her —to her face, anyway.
She had put out Henry’s pudding—
prunes and rice—and was just about to
take it into the dining-room when a
frown puckered her brow. Her lips
moved as she counted the prunes with a
spoon. Then a smile replaced the frown
as she popped another prune on to his
plate.
As she was clearing up after tea she
came around, put her arms playfully
about Henry’s shoulders, took hold of
his pudding plate and commenced chant-
ing, moving the stones aside with his
spoon as she did so:
“ ‘He loves me, he loves me not, he loves
me’ ....
“Oh, Henry, darling, so you do love me
after all,” she finished triumphantly.
And the champion of feminine logic
planted a resounding kiss on her spouse’s
polished dome.
Bokio.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Baa,’ said Otto with a nervous smile.”
—Magazine story.
A sheepish grin.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Average Consumption.
I have been distressed by the discovery
that last year only 1,483,8031 b. of prawns
was purchased in N.S.W., and only
10,116 dozen crayfish, or 121,392 indi-
vidual crays, were sold. It has shocked
me to find that I have been taking
more than my share. The prawns
average out to a little more than half a
pound per annum per person ; and here
I have been grabbing at something like
201 b the prawns out of the
children’s mouths, so to speak.
It is worse in respect to crayfish.
With only one Cray per annum for every
22 people, I have been dragging home a
specimen all to myself nearly every
week. There is an element of unfairness
about oysters, too. It appears that the
oyster - production works out to
1.00723576 oyster p.a. per inhabitant. I
have been taking more than that. In
fact, I cannot remember ever eating a
fraction of an oyster, unless it was my
share of the oyster with which they make
soup in restaurants.
In other words, I unwittingly have
been wolfing other people’s shares in
the good things of life. I have even
deprived countless small children of their
just share of the beer-production.
I don’t like the idea of robbing other
people ; still, I have a sort of consola-
tion in knowing that I am being robbed
myself. Somebody else is getting a good
deal of my share of the milk. And the
water. I don’t know what they want
with all that water. The quantity that
goes in the whisky can’t be reckoned by
gallons, in spite of the efforts of pub-
licans. Besides, 1 like my whisky neat,
my mother having trained me to tidy
habits.
I’m being diddled, too, over lipstick,
cosmetics, lemonade, corsets and glass
eyes.
Perhaps it all averages out. Still, I’m
worried about those prawns. I am going
out to buy a pound ; and I intend to
go round offering a prawn to every baby
I see.
If I find they really don’t want them
my conscience will be easier.
H. M.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
I. —Introductory Remarks.
Scientific opinion differs concerning
the age of Australia. Geologists say it’s
old. Historians say it’s new. They can’t
both be right, but you can take your
pick. Science is like that.
Australia has a north, south, east and
west; but it doesn’t use all of them.
If you go northwards along the west
coast you come to Japan; if you go
northwards along the east coast you
come to Italy. If you continue beyond
either of these places you reach Darwin,
and wonder why. England-to-Australia
pilots stop a short time at Darwin to get
their breath back ; but usually in vain.
The usual map of Australia is a pic-
turesque piece of work, but it should
be regarded by the tourist with the maxi-
mum amount of distrust —particularly
the area occupying the centre of the
map. This region, variously known as
the Dead Heart, the Back o’ Beyond,
the Never-Never and the Great Open
Spaces, is really quite uninteresting ; but
conscientious cartographers have filled it
in or eked it out and otherwise adorned
it with rivers, lakes and deserts.
The rivers are rivers all right after
heavy rains, but it never rains out there.
Similarly, the lakes would be lakes if
only the rivers would run to fill them.
The deserts aren’t deserts at all. They’ve
got plenty of sand and flies, but they don’t
carry a sheik to a thousand square miles.
Apart from these defects, maps of
Australia are substantially correct —
everything outside the boundary being
sea, and everything inside land, and so
on. It should be realised that the colors
on the map signify very little. It is
customary, for example, to depict West-
ralia in pink, and South Australia in yel-
low. The tourist, on crossing the border,
will notice no such difference ; in fact,
the only thing that will give him any
inkling that he is in another State will
be the difference in the closing hours.
In common with many other countries,
Australia has the finest waterfalls, the
most magnificent mountain scenery, the
most glorious beaches, the finest fishing
and the best sunshine in the world. It
also has on occasions the stickiest mud,
the finest dust, the most spiteful mos-
quitoes and the most persistent flies ; but
this is the first time they’ve ever got
into a guide-book.
Any variety of scenery not on tap can
be pointed out in its extinct form. One
may find extinct volcanoes, defunct
glaciers, dried-up river- and ocean-beds,
and even (in marble and bronze) speci-
mens of that extinct phenomenon the
statesman.
The climate of Australia can best be
described as assorted. One can sample
the various types of climate by travelling
about from place to place, or spend a
few days in Melbourne and get the lot.
Jasby.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Let's drink and be merry, to-morrow
we die !”
With gaiety y ester eve I cried.
I certainly drank and was merry, but why
In the name of mercy haven’t I died?
N.
4* 4* *!•
Natural Question.
“I’m thinking of buying that new
block of flats. You know, flats are
always a good investment.”
“Are you really?”
“Of course, I may decide to take a
trip to England first. My husband and
I have been thinking of that for a long
time.”
“You’ll get there at a nice time now.”
“Of course, Tom is always talking
about seeing Australia first. It appeals
to me, too, in a way. In that case we
will buy a really good car and take our
time in looking round.”
“Yes! What’s the number of your
lottery ticket?”
P. P.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Doctor says that a woman’s age can be
told by looking at her backbone.”
That’s the cleverest move so far to-
wards the reintroduction of the Vic-
torian-period bathing costume.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Charles Farrell enjoys himself among the
breakers.” —“Labor Daily.”
A shooting star.
Resolution.
If you persist in dining out
A nd gaily fluttering about
The city like a butterfly,
Accept the timely hint that I
Shall pack my grip and go away
From you for ever and a day.
I’ll skip, my sharp reproof to show,
And probably you’ll never know
Where I have gone. Though you may
yearn
With all your heart for my return,
I’ll pass entirely from your life
And quite forget that you’re my wife.
I won’t revoke, flinch or recant;
No, I’ll be firm and adamant.
I’ll stay away, my heart’s delight,
At any rate, till Friday night!
P.O.M.C.
Pity the Poor Sculptor.
Painters paint and writers write,
Preachers preach and fighters fight;
But, there, who knows —Do l ? Do
you ?
What on earth the sculptors do ?
Grind me to powder, beat me to pulp,
Yet l refuse to say “to sculp”;
While a man must have gasped and
goggled and gulped
Long ere he brings himself to “sculpt” ;
As for “to sculpture,” as some say,
Bah! Disgusting! Take it away !
A. WALL.


A Fine Serial Story of Life in Fiji
ISLAND HERITGE
[Author’s Note .—All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
BY ALLSON SMITH
0 EL ELQJX5 TT KATTH D CB^
CD [K .UOW/^^CHCE/^ro
Chapter Vll {Continued).
LIFE went on. Over peaked Ruvia sunrise
and sunset flamed in their lovely recurring
pageantry. Nuts fell and were piled into
great unwieldy heaps amid the trees, and, squat-
ting beside them, the lean coolies cut out the
hard white meat. To and from Ruvia went
the sturdy, dingy cutters with their loads. All
that Laurence put his hands on prospered in the
way of material wealth ; it was only in his personal
relations with those of his own flesh and blood that
he was checked and defeated. It was ironic. He was
sometimes aware, too, of a slowing down of desire
to be up and doing, planning, organising ; he felt that
time was flowing too swiftly for him—he was being
left with the past.
It was then that he seemed to turn dumbly to
Elena, to his daughters, for comfort, for reassurance
that he was still James Laurence, the successful, the
dominant, the unbeaten. And Elena had grown into
a mature, strange woman with eyes that veiled her
thought; Ruve had no love for him, and Vivien was
no more than a kittenish, caressing child ; fond of
him, certainly, but able to do very well without him.
Her dear daddy, to be coaxed prettily when she
wanted a cheque or its equivalent. She couldn’t
understand his dreams ; her mind, he decided, was
shallow. But, withal, she was his darling ; and some-
times she could charm the black moods from his
soul.
He spent as little time as possible in Valoa now.
The long island, particularly Valoa settlement itself,
had become hateful to him as the scene of Rod’s
downfall. Valoa was bound up with the wreck of
his boy’s hopes and his yielding to dark Lola’s allure.
He felt that the Valoa folk discussed him and all
his concerns exhaustively, tirelessly and with a mor-
bid interest. And he had done with the Bennetts, root
and branch, he said in that autocratic way of his to
Elena and the girls, and he wished them to abide by
his decision. Denny was to leave Ruvia without
delay; he would not return. He did not see the
mutinous mouth of Vivien and her rebellious, amazed
dark eyes. He did not blame Denny; but he was
blood-brother to Lola, who had overthrown his hopes.
He wanted no reminder of Lola or her family on
Ruvia. It was the end ; he left them without inviting
any comment. It was, as he saw life, the part of
women to acquiesce.
Vivien flamed:
“It’s unfair! It’s cruel! Why should Denny
have to go—just because Rod pleased himself? We
were all happy till that wretched Roddy came back.
I wish he’d stayed away altogether.”
She collapsed in a sobbing heap ; and over the
dark, bent head Ruve looked at Elena. “Did you
know it went so deep?” that mute gaze asked; but
Elena’s eyes betrayed nothing. She bent over the
weeping girl. “Don’t be so foolish,” she said a little
sharply. “You’re not the only girl that fancied her-
self the most miserable in the world. Father’s put
out now; but he’ll come round. / can manage him.”
But she was wrong. Laurence would this time
brook no interference.
“He’s to go, I tell you!” he said harshly. “I’ve
nothing against the lad personally, but I want no
more Bennetts on Ruvia. He can thank his fly-by-
night sister for that.”
“Jim, it’s not fair. People will say it’s spite.”
“Damn people—and what they say! It’s my
business, not theirs —or yours.”
Elena gave it up, and retired gracefully. She
knew when Laurence was immovable.
Denny came to the house to say good-bye. He
was bewildered. He was not particularly stupid, but
he failed to see what connection Lola’s misdeeds had
with him. He had counted on work at Ruvia at
frequent intervals ; and now, in one sweeping flash, it
had come to an end. He liked being at Ruvia —he
liked them all —and lately one among them had come
to mean everything. Whatever deeps were in his
light, sensuous nature, Vivien stirred. Being Denny,
he hadn’t troubled about the future ; he had been
content to drift through the very pleasant present.
He remembered those incredible moments he had
spent uncomfortably with Laurence when the old
man had paid him and dismissed him —“as if he had
been a coolie,” he thought with a dumb resentment.
Laurence sat at his. big yellow desk, while Denny
stood beside it, listening astounded to the sentence
against him and his family. He was always a bit
awed by Laurence.
“l won’t be wanting you again, Ben-
nett,” he had concluded, “so, if you wish,
you can go and say good-bye to -the ladies
—and, remember, it’s to be good-bye in
earnest this time. I’m through with your
people for good. I’ve nothing personally against you,
Denny, and I’m giving you an excellent reference —
but you’re one of them. My family will do as I do.
I don’t think there’s any more to be said.”
But Denny, stumbling and incoherent, said
fiercely that he was quite content with the arrange-
ment, though he thought it “not a square deal.”
“What you think, Bennett,” said Laurence, supremely
unmoved, “doesn’t! matter a brass tack. But you’re
feeling sore, I expect, and I can make allowances.
Well —that’s all.” He turned to his letters.
Denny, reflecting on it after, didn’t like to think
of the figure he had cut against that assured, hard
dominance of the older man. But, for the life of
him, he didn’t know how else he could have taken it.
The women were gentler. Elena, with whom he
had always been a favorite, kissed him impulsively at
sight of his bewildered, unhappy eyes. “Poor Denny—
it. will blow over,” she said vaguely, uncertainly,
because she knew it wouldn’t. Ruve was sweetly sym-
pathetic, and Vivien —Vivien, he saw her alone and
felt her kisses warm on his lips. They had been laugh-
ing boy and girl; now they were desperate young
lovers, clinging passionately together.
“You won’t let this make any difference? You’ll
still love me?” said Denny.
“Always,” said Vivien, in magnificent scorn of
such an idea. “If dad won’t let us marry, we can
wait till I’m twenty-one. Then I can do what I like —
and I will.”
They were very young, very much in earnest, and
it was rather pathetic that they thought their love
mattered more than Laurence’s ambition.
Denny was gone, and the days seemed very quiet.
Vivien, who had been so gay and carefree, fretted
and seemed to droop visibly, so that Elena looked at
her anxiously and Batila —that knowledgeable woman
—back again at Ruvia, mixed native potions her
granddaughter flatly refused to drink.
Only to Ruve did these subdued days bring happi-
ness. That intense desire in her to take gladly all life
had to give, to live vividly each moment and savor
to the full its color and texture, had as yet shown
itself most apparent in her art. But she wanted
lessons ; she knew how immature and faulty was her
work. And models were not always easy to obtain,
though Elena helped and the sirdar’s wife, little thin,
vivid creature, got men and women to sit. for her in
the pokey back verandah in her box of a house.
Her father didn’t altogether approve of her drawing
and painting the men: the women didn’t matter. He
had queer, prudish notions when it came to a young
girl wanting his laborers to pose for her—he thought
it put the wrong notions in their woolly heads. She
wondered sometimes what he would have thought of
a life class.
In her heart she knew she
wanted training. She would
have liked to go back and
work in Sydney for two or
three intense years, and then
return to paint Fiji, the Fiji
she knew so intimately—the
slow, colorful, vivid life of the
native, the half-caste. Some-
times she thought, with a pang
of frustration, what a thing
Roddy and she could have
made of it —she to paint it and
Roddy to write it. They two
had so much in common, so
much of that quality their
glowering father disgustedly
referred to as “moonshine.”
And Roddy was finished,
sunken into the life that had
fascinated him and now held
him. It had him completely.
It wasn’t as if he could struggle against it;
there was a weak strain in him, and he would grow
into a bitter and disappointed man. Another of
stronger character, with Rod’s touch of genius, would
have come out of the life he was living now with a
clarity of vision, a deeper understanding; would have
got out of it some peculiar and individual reaction.
Poor weak, brilliant Roddy, so early done for. What
a waste of talent! He was of the kind who give
their best when all is well with them. Misfortunes
overwhelmed him.
Into Ruve’s life something else was coming now —
steadily, surely. She was young; she didn’t know if
she altogether wanted love and marriage. Time
enough when she was older; there were so many
other things she wanted first. Then, too, she was
somewhat peculiarly placed in life. She knew her
father would approve of marriage for her with Dick;
and that set her a little against the idea. She had a
vague, deep, wholly illogical feeling that her father
would stand between her and anything she really
wanted. She hadn’t forgiven that arbitrary breaking
off of the Sydney life that had been so happy and
filled with dreams for the future. Being overruled
and treated as if one had no real feeling or wishes
angered her. Her anger was the more compelling
because it was impotent.
She took her problems with her up in the hills
and along the glowing beaches—and then forgot them
for a while in absorption in her subjects. She alter-
nated in desires. She wanted so desperately to be a
painter ; and then fits of indolence and daydreaming
came over her in which nothing seemed worth striv-
ing for. It was pleasant then to let the golden heat
flow about one —a warm tide on which one drifted,
dreaming. And the place was lonely sometimes ; she
would have been the better for more and varied
companionship. The island encouraged a habit of
introspection, to which she had always been a little
prone.
Sitting one burning day in the shade of a rocky
headland running out on the beach, she let herself
drift off in a dream. In her cool white frock and
shady hat, her painting things flung beside her on the
coarse grass growing down in the sand, she struck a
note of humanity on the lonely shore. The tide that
had been full was falling ; where it had lately been
the wet sand showed a darker surface, the waves
curled back from it in a foam of lace. Beyond the
white line of surf that marked the hidden reef the
sea stretched, purpling at its rim where it met the
glowing sky. An island rose there, blue and remote —
quivering in light. Ruve in her water-color sketch
had caught something of the glamor of it, but she
was dissatisfied. She looked at it, a faint frown knit-
ting her smooth young brows. So intent was she that
she did not notice Dick’s approach till his shadow
crossed the sand at her feet. She looked up, startled.
He flung himself down on the sand beside her.
“The men are cutting in the little gully round
the point,” he said in explanation of his sudden
arrival. “I saw you from the hill, and thought I’d
come and criticise. By Jove, it’s a little masterpiece!”
“Do you think so?” said Ruve, pleased with his
tone of warm appreciation. “It isn’t, really. There’s
something I can’t get in water-colors —some free-
dom, sweep of color. I don’t quite know how to
put it.”
“I don’t know what more you want,” commented
Dick. “I think it’s a perfect little picture.”
“You would, Dick, and it’s very nice of you.
But you don’t know what I mean, all the same. Roddy
would —in a minute.”
“Oh, you and Roddy are a cut above us plain
mortals in these things,” said Dick with obvious sin-
cerity. “But what are you aiming at with it all, Ruve?
What do you want to do?”
He did not look at her ; his gaze was on the slim
hands linked about her knees. Impressionable Ruve
took fire.
“What do I want to do? Oh, Dick, everything!
I want to be an artist, only I want training, years of
it —my work’s full of faults. I feel I could do some-
thing if I had my chance. I want to draw from the
figure, study hard in the life classes —work, work, till
I can do what I want to with a landscape or a person
and not be bothered with the silly little difficulties I
can’t get over by myself.”
“You mean,” said Dick, rather slowly, “that you
want to go back—away from us all. I thought you
were happier lately.”
“But I’d come back. Half of me really does
belong to Fiji. I want to put Fiji on canvas,” she
cried with the magnificent assurance of youth. “I
could —with training and hard work.”
“I’d hate you to go,” said Dick, low. “I want
you always in my life.”
She looked down at him then with a sudden
realisation that Dick, dear, slow, steady old Dick, was
trying hard to put into words what she had always
known. Dear Dick! But tiresome, too, because she
didn’t want it yet. He looked up then, and their eves
THE STORY SO FAR.
The children of Janies Laurence,
trader and planter, of Ruvia, Fiji, are
a strange trio. Roddy, the eldest, though
almost white, has the blood of Laurence’s
former dark mistress. Ruve is the
daughter of the planter’s first wife, who
died when she was born. The third
child, Vivien, also has dark blood. Her
mother is Elena, a beautiful half-caste
girl, whom Laurence married when Ruve
was a small child.
Roddy and Ruve have been educated
outside Fiji, the former in Auckland
and the latter in Sydney. Laurence has
great plans for Roddy, but when the lad
marries Lola Bennett without consulting
him he flies into a rage and turns him
out of the house. Roddy is brilliant, but
impractical. He has in his mind a
nebulous dream that the Islands should
be controlled by those of mixed blood.
Dick Carew is the overseer at Ruvia.
He is in love with Ruve.


met. Something cold and virginal melted in her and
a wave of warmth and softness swept over her ; they
were both changed, and she could not meet his com-
pelling eyes. And somehow they had kissed, and
everything was different—different for ever. They
did not know that the age-old magic of Nature had
made them believe this, but so for the present it was.
The man spoke first:
“It’s ’yes,’ then? You’ll marry me, Ruve?”
“Yes,” said Ruve, so softly he barely heard it.
She leant back against his shoulder ; and, as suddenly,
started up again with a cry of dismay.
“But father! Whatever will he say?”
“Don’t worry,” said Dick, drawing her back.
“He’s known I wanted you for a good while now.
I didn’t dare to rush you—l was so afraid you’d turn
me down. He’s quite pleased about it. I can’t quite
believe my luck yet. I want you more than anything
on earth, Ruve. You don’t know how much you
mean to me.”
“I wonder you didn’t fall in love with Vivien.
Everyone does.”
“You’ll do me,” said Dick with more conviction
than elegance. “You’re the only wife I want, thank
you.’”
“Dick, you are a darling. Do you like me so
much? It feels so unusual and so beautiful.”
Dick’s reply was the reply of all lovers from
time immemorial.
Vivien came out of her apathy at the news ; she
was for a moment her old sparkling self.
“You and Dick engaged!
How lovely! I knew it would
come, of course. One only had to
see him look at you. Oh, get mar-
ried quickly and be happy before
something stops you. I don’t want
you to be hurt, Ruve, darling.”
“Dick wants us to,” said Ruve,
rather shy about it, but warming
to her theme. “And I think I’d
like to. I’d like to share in the
harder part, not just go to him
when he’s over the worst of the
struggle. Did you know he’s leav-
ing next month and settling in
Vunisesi? He wants me to marry
him as soon as I can be ready.”
“When will you be?” said
Vivien, practically.
“About three months, I
thought. After all, I won’t want
so much —we’ll be living very
very simply at first.”
“Oh, what nonsense!” cried
Vivien with energy. “It’s when
you’re young that you want pretty
things, and plenty of therm And
you’re going to get them, if / know
anything. And, oh, why not have
the wedding in Suva?”
“No! No!” said Ruve. “It’s not
the same for me, Vivien. Dick and
I can be quietly married in Valoa.
I don’t want a fuss. I only wish
Aunt Ellice could be here for it.
I meant to go back to Sydney when
I was twenty-one and live with her
and study art. Now it doesn’t
seem so important.”
“Will you let it drop when
you are married? Girls forget
everything but their husbands
when they marry. But I don’t
think you could live long without
a paintbrush somewhere handy.
It’s in you, Ruve ; and Dick will
just have to put up with it.”
“No, I couldn’t let it drop,”
Ruve said seriously. “Dick
wouldn’t want me to, either. And
there ought to be plenty of time
for painting. I’ll manage.”
“Of course you will. And,
oh! dearest, Dick’s a lucky fellow.
I’ll hate letting you go, but, then,
I’ll come and stay with you for
weeks at a time. You won’t get
rid of me. How lucky you’ll be so close! I’ll
look over in the mornings and think of you frying
eggs and bacon for Dick in the house under the hills.
Or maybe”—wickedly—“you’ll be up on top of the
hills painting the sunrise while poor Dick struggles
with the frying-pan himself.”
“As if I’d let him! ” exclaimed Ruve indignantly.
“Poor Dick,” said Vivien dolefully. “He doesn’t
know what it is to be married to an artist. What
an awakening lies before him!”
But the flashes of brightness were shortlived,
and were only occasioned try Ruve’s forthcoming
marriage. Apart from preparations for that, Vivien
was brooding and still.
“What’s wrong with the lass?” Laurence said,
puzzled, to Elena. “Does she want anything? A trip
to Suva —money?. Is she ill?”
“She wants,” said Elena enigmatically, “what
you’ll never give her.”
“What do you mean? I’ve denied her nothing
in reason. She’s only had to ask. What’s she fretting
for?”
“If I tell you,” said Elena, “you will be angry
and blame me for what no one could help.”
Laurence was alarmed
“What are you making such a mystery about?
If you know, tell me.”
“If you must know,” Elena said, “she and Denny
are fond of each other. She’s fretted ever since you
dismissed him.”
Laurence was thunderstruck.
“Good God! Those damned Bennetts again.
And you knew it! Let it go on! Have you no sense,
Elena? I’d have hoofed him off months ago if I
thought he’d dare to lift his eyes to my Vivien.” A
dreadful thought struck him ; he caught Elena’s wrist
in a grip that hurt, made her look into his angry,
alarmed eyes. “Good God! Has it gone any further?
I'll shoot him like a dog if it has. Tell me.”
“Oh, don’t be so foolish. Of course there’s
nothing like that. They’re just boy and girl fretting
for each other, made for each other, and you’re cruel
to separate them.”
:“Upon my soul, Elena, you surprise me. Haven’t
you any ambition for your daughter? You want her
to marry a good-for-nothing waster like Denny. A
girl like Vivien! She could marry anyone.”
“Perhaps! But she has set her heart on Denny.”
“Damned rot! She’ll forget him. I’ll talk to
her.”
“You had better be careful,” said Elena. “Young
girls like Vivien are not easy to manage.”
He was gentle with Vivien after his characteristic
plunge into the matter and her amazed realisation
that he knew. ,
“You’re not for him, my lassie. He’s beneath
you. Forget him —an easy-going young waster.”
“Denny’s not a waster,” said Vivien tern-,
pestuously. “You’re no fairer to him than you were
to Rod. I know.”
Her father was amazed. Vivien to turn on him
so fiercely! He tried coaxing.
“My dear, it will pass, this feeling you have.
All young things think the first love is the real thing.
Denny’s no mate for my pretty, bright lassie. I’m
older than you, child, and I know. I’d give you any-
thing on God’s earth if I could get it for you and it
was for your good. But this wouldn’t be. Have you
thought of the sort of home you and Denny would be
in before ten years were out, if I were criminal
enough to give you your head?”
Vivien looked at him blankly. Ten years! It
seemed an eternity to her, in her confident, lovely
youth.
“No, lassie,” her father said tenderly, “I can see
full well you haven’t. Hand-to-mouth existence —both
of you perhaps tired of each other, and tied together
for life. Apart from the dark blood in him, there’s
a feckless strain in all the Bennetts. You’re very
precious to me, Vivien, but I’d rather see you dead
than married to Denny Bennett.”
“I’ll never marry anyone else,” said Vivien
fiercely. “Never! Never! We could both be so happy
together. We’re both the same —there’s no difference.
Only- that Denny hasn’t any money.”
“And never will have,” said her father shrewdly.
“As long as he can 101 l in the sun and play the con-
certina, he’ll be satisfied. I know the type.”
Vivien looked at him strangely.
“You’re unfair to Denny,” she said. “And you
think me a child —that I don’t know my own mind.
I’m not. And I love Denny so much that life’s nothing
to me without him. If I can’t have your consent to
marry him, then I’ll marry him without it when I’m
twenty-one.”
The angry darkening of Laurence’s face
frightened her, for all her high spirit. She shrank
back.
“If you do,” he said, in a tone he had never
before used to this his youngest and most cherished
child, “I’ve done with you. Dear as you are to me,
once you take that step I’ll put you out of my life
as I’ve put Rod.”
He went out, not trusting himself to say more.
Vivien, crumpled up in a big chair, sobbed miserably.
Her happy, inconsequential little sunlit world seemed
shattered about her.
Laurence, a sense of defeat strong in him, went
out of the house and the compound, glowing
bright and orderly in the intense sunlight. At the
gate he looked back at it all —the big, spreading,
mellowing homestead, the garden about it, and the
trees that shed latticed shadows over its green, smooth
lawns. “A goodly heritage.” From somewhere the
phrase rose in his mind. And now, in the years that
should have seen fulfilment of all his hopes, enmity
was rising up in his own household. It was bitter.
And more bitter still was the unacknowledged,
insidious sense of defeat, of finding forces stronger
than his own will arrayed against him. He turned
away and walked slowly towards the creek. He
looked an old man.
He leant on the railing of the bridge, savoring
the bitterness of defeat. Rod lost to him. Vivien
in open rebellion. Elena, he was beginning to sus-
pect, never really in sympathy with him. Ruve a
stranger. Ruvia still his own; but success was dust
and ashes now. He looked down into the shallow,
muddy creek. The tide was out; the light wind made
little ripples over the dark water. On the puddly,
crab-holed level banks great recumbent hogs were
lying half-in, half-out of the almost
stagnant stream. Out of childhood
the’ story of the Prodigal Son rose
in the man’s mind. That was Rod,
only, unlike the Prodigal Son,
there was for him no return. He
went moodily on to the copra-shed,
where the Indian women were sew-
ing up bags. Women, looking at
him as he paused, with furtive,
intrigued, dark eyes. He felt they
talked of him and his unsatisfying
household with unending interest
Chapter XIV.
AT the back of Valoa settlement,
across and under the dividing
range of low hills that ran the
length of the long island, lay the
little fertile plantation of Vunisesi.
The Bennetts had settled on it some
years before Laurence came to
Ruvia. The accident which had
crippled Bennett put an end to the
prosperity of Vunisesi: after that
it had been allowed to drift. Adela
had done her best, but she had
been too heavily handicapped ;
nor was she a woman to save or
deny herself or her children any
necessity—or luxury —if there were
any chance of obtaining it. She
had had high hopes of Denny’s
taking over the plantation when he
was old enough, but as he grew up
even her partial eyes saw that in
Denny there was not the stamina
to cope with the debt-encumbered
estate. It had been a wrench to
Adela, this relinquishing of Vuni-
sesi ; she had thought it would
have been a home for them all if
the worst came to the worst. And
she loved the little, sweet-watered,
glowing estate that had seen the
birth of all her children. She was
glad that it was not passing alto-
gether to strangers, that it would
be Ruve who would live there—
Ruve and Dick. She was fond of
them both.
The house the young Adela
had lived in was not large ; the
growing young Bennett family had
seemed to fill it to overflowing in
those early and carefree days. It
stood back a little from the yellow
sweep of beach where shadowy dilo-trees leaned over
the flowing tide. It was old now, sorely in need of paint
and repair ; but it was essentially a friendly, a com-
panionable house. Much could be done with its four
airy rooms, its three-sided verandah and its cheerful,
dilapidated kitchen. At one side grew a mango-
tree, out of whose enticing branches the Bennett chil-
dren had tumbled times out of number. A swing hung
there still, looking oddly pathetic by the old forsaken
house: it caught somehow at Ruve’s heart when she
and Dick, disembarking from the Ruvia launch, went
over the place so soon to be their home.
Dick was settled on Vunisesi now, and Laurence,
who had relied more than he had realised on the
young man, felt a sense of distinct loss. Laurence
had hoped that Roddy would carry on Dick’s work—
and his, when he was gone. It was as if youth were
leaving Ruvia. Roddy and Dick gone—Denny gone.
Ruve soon to go, and bright Vivien grown still and
strange. . . .
Ruvia’s attention—the feminine portion of Ruvia,
at least—was at this period centred on Ruve. She was
to be married early in January, and it was now
December. The three of them Elena, Ruve and
Vivien —were just back from a trip to Suva. That had
been Vivien’s idea, and Laurence, glad to see her
slowly brightening, determined that, once Ruve was
married, he would send Elena and Vivien for a long
holiday out of Fiji. Change, new people new scenes,
would do wonders for Vivien. She was only eighteen ,
she would forget Denny in time. It was a pity she
had not gone earlier —even the few weeks in Suva
had given back something of her old animation.
(i Continued on page 50.)
“THE BRIDLE TRACK"
J. J. Hardie, author of “The
Bridle Track,” which will
shortly commence- as a serial
in “The Bulletin,” was born in
Troon, Scotland, in 1894. He
was educated in Scotland, in
the intervals of 15 years of
travel in company with his
father over most of Europe.
He came to Australia 25 years
ago, and has seen more of it
than most of us. He spent four
years, the better part of it in
the saddle, in Queensland,
N. S. Wales and the Northern
Territory. In October, 1914,
he was in the Territory with
cattle when he heard there was
a war on, and with a mate he
rode a couple of hundred miles
to enlist. They wouldn’t take
him; so, after having another
shot at it, he went to Canada,
joined up there, and saw service
in the infantry, tanks and
cavalry in Egypt, France and
the North-west Frontier of
India. On his return to Aus-
tralia he decided to grow
bananas on the Tweed River.
Bunchy-top beat him and he
retreated to Sydney, only to
Man Moore Photo.
J. J. HARDIE.
return outback to the sheep and wool game. His first novel, "Cattle Camp,”
won third prize in the 1929 “Bulletin” Novel Competition; "Lantana” followed
a couple of years ago. A leading authority on woolclassing, he classes for some of
the biggest stations in N.S.W., and "The Bulletin” has published his textbook on
woolclassing and shearing-shed management. “The Bridle Track” brings back
the spacious and not so distant days of Queensland droving before the advent of
the motor-truck. The Bridle Track winds from the Territory to N. S. Wales,
and along it pass the big mobs: the cattle and the sheep and the horses—and
the men and one woman who will be rememberd.


About Your Indigestion
I
*
s*
m
*
G
V 1
pi
INTESTINES
f A
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE
Painful distension of the
stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE
Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE
Duodenal ulcers. Excess
outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain ot
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good'
So every day that you put off getting a supply
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6
A Tale of Misapplied Genius:-
A magnetic
PERSONALITY
BY SIDNEY
BELQRAVE
1 PRESUME you have been to the Art
Gallery to view the new and amaz-
ingly original picture hanging there,
the picture which has divided Mel-
bourne’s critics into two groups, each
thirsting for the other’s blood. It is a
life-size portrait of a young man, whose
features are contorted by despair, hate,
morbid introspection, unhallowed desires.
At least, that is what one school main-
tains. The opposing camp states that
the countenance is all that is lovely, be-
nign, kindly, generous and idealistic. Not
being a critic, I do not venture an
opinion. The picture is entitled “Joe
Bossel, by Himself.”
He was almost not by himself. I was
as close as kiss-me-foot to being there,
too. This is how it came about.
You remember the tragedy in the
sword-swallower’s tent at the last Mel-
bourne Agricultural Show? I was a wit-
ness of the occurrence. The sword-
swallower had just swallowed a pair of
Malay krises when he was attacked by
a form of indigestion which caused the
krises to dash for open-air via the space
between his sixth and seventh ribs. I
might add he was interred the following
day.
Feeling I had got a good shilling’s
worth, I retired from the tent, to en-
counter outside a man doubled up with
laughter. This was my
first sight of Joe Bossel.
“What’s the joke?” I
asked, feeling his mirth
was rather in bad taste.
“The sword bloke,” he
spluttered. “By gosh, it’s
funny. Took him by
surprise, didn’t I? Did
it all by myself.”
“You what?”
“Too ri g h t,” he
gurgled in a fresh out-
burst of mirth. “I
worked the trick.”
Doubled up.
“Look here,” I said anxiously, “you’d
better mizzle off then. You don’t want
the police to hear you say that.”
He sobered up and thought that per-
haps my advice was good. So, as the
ambulance drove up for the sword-
swallower, we strolled away together.
“May I ask,” I said, “how you did it?”
“Certainly,” he replied courteously.
“The whole secret is that I possess a mag-
netic personality. When I unmask the
battery of my attraction, as I did with
the sword-swallower, everything comes
to me.”
I was growing interested when a
sudden thought flashed through my
mind. I hurriedly searched my pockets.
Joe sighed.
“Thought you’d miss them,” he said,
giving back my watch and wallet. “That’s
one of the drawbacks of a personality
like mine. As I pointed out, everything
comes to me —the good with the bad.
Not,” he went on hastily, “that I mean
there’s anything phony about your
watch or money. But, to give you a
common instance, in equal proportion
with the attraction I have for girls is
the attraction I have for the boots of
their fathers and husbands. The amount
of trouble I attract almost makes me
wish I was not the embodiment of cosmic
forces which took countless light years
to reach this globe.”
“How did you develop your magnetic
powers?” I asked.
“I did a correspondence course in
drawing,” he replied. “I used to
work in the Riverina, where the blow-
flies were irresistibly drawn to me.
The squatters gave me a penny a
million head to catch the brutes, and I
had the carcasses for myself. However,
the Riverina not offering sufficient scope,
I came down to Mel-
bourne. I haven’t done
so badly. I get a few
jobs. As a matter of
fact, I have to go to one
now. You’re welcome to
come with me if you
like.”
I was only too pleased.
Joe’s appointment was
with a Collins - street
specialist who had mis-
laid a piece of radium.
It was feared that the
radium had been swept
out and carted away with the garbage.
As it was valued at £20,000, the
doctor wanted it back. We met the
medico and went with him to the City
Council’s destructor, where Joe disrobed
and waded into Melbourne’s waste. The
doctor said he would know when he had
got the radium by a sharp, stinging sen-
sation.
Joe had not exaggerated his ability. He
had hardly stepped into the rubbish
when he was lost to view under a ton
or so of the stuff. And the next moment
he gave a wild yell and streaked for the
shore.
“Are you,” he asked with difficulty, as
he was writhing with pain, “the only
person to lose radium lately?”
The doctor nodded.
“Well, where does all the rest come
from?” Joe groaned. “I’ve got stinging
sensations all over me.”
“Only one of them’s mine,” the doctor
said.
We raced back to the surgery. I
helped the doctor to scrape the dirt from
Joe.
“I’m in luck at last,” Joe confided to
me between gasps of pain. “After the
quack’s got his whack the rest will be
mine. A man’ll be able to get something
for a coupla million quids’ worth of
radium even though 1
have to sell below par.”
A derisive snort eman-
ated from the doctor.
“Radium be blowed!”
he snarled. “There’s not
a molecule of radium on
you. What you picked
up was a coupla million
fleas.”
His diagnosis was cor-
rect. The radium was
later recovered at the
Crematorium.
Through Melbourne’s waste.
THIS episode made me more than inter-
ested in Joe. I came to the conclu-
sion that, while he was a genius, he had
one bad weakness. What he required to
make him unique in the annals of
science was a repelling force to offset
his magnetism. I suggested as much to
him.
“Repelling force? How can I get
that?” he demanded.
“Easy,” I answered. I pointed out that,
whereas his magnetic personality was
largely the result of his lessons in draw-
ing, all he had to do was to work through
the same lessons backwards. If one
way meant attraction, the opposite way
was the other extreme.
“By jove,” he said; “I believe
you’ve got the idea. I’ll start back at
once.”
Under my careful guidance, he did so.
I took every precaution, making sure he
read all the instructions from end to be-
ginning and performed all the exercises
from the last to the first. It was difficult
at the finish —Joe finding the pronuncia-
tion of words backwards something of
a ‘twister—but as we approached the
initial stages he was working with effort-
less assurance.
Having performed the course, Joe was
ready for work, though for a week or
so he did nothing but fool around, mak-
ing water run uphill, putting clocks
back, turning tea into breakfast, and
making trams run backwards. His favor-
ite trick, though, was to invite people to
fire rifles at him. But I had to insist
that only peashooters be used, as on
several occasions the marksmen lowered
their weapons ort the instant they fired,
with the consequence that the bullets
arrived back with fatal effect.
Joe would have spent all his time in
playing, but I said it was time he got to
work.
“You,” I told him, “from being a
mere human magnet may become a com-
mercial magnate by filling a long-felt
though not yet realised gap in Mel-
bourne’s home life. What is the big-
gest drawback to marriage, Joe?”
“The wife’s relations,” he answered
promptly.
“Not quite,” I said. “The worst bar
to matrimony is washing-up. When the
dishcloth is produced, love ebbs down
the sink. Broken dishes mean broken
romance. Joe, you are the man to finish
all this. You are destined to be Mel-
bourne’s dishwasher.”
He kicked at first, but when I ex-
plained the scheme in detail he became
enthusiastic. We took large premises in
the city, bought a fleet of motor-vans and
commenced operations. The idea caught
on wonderfully. The vans would call at
our customers’ homes
each day, leave a
supply of clean dishes
and take away the dirty
ones.
The washing was easy.
We placed the dishes
in racks all round a
large room. Joe stood
in the centre, brought
into play his magnetic
personality, and in a
second every article was
spotless, while Joe was
inundated with a mass of
gravy, porridge, butter, tea-leaves, etc.
Proceeding to the next room, he would
go into reverse, so to speak, and all the
remnants of Melbourne’s meals would
leave him.
NOW here was the beautiful part of
the scheme. The floor of this room—
hereinafter known as the separating-
room —was perforated with holes which
opened into chutes leading to bins on
the lower floor. The positions of these
openings were obtained by exact calcu-
lation of the specific gravity of each kind
of food taken in conjunction with the co-
efficient of Joe’s repelling personality,
so that coffee-grounds, for instance,
always went down one hole, bacon-rind
down another, trifle down a third and
so on. The only nutriment not provided
for was beer. Residents of Melbourne
rarely leave even the smell of beer in
their glasses.
These remains were hygienically
washed and dried, then bottled and
tinned, so that we soon developed a
thriving wholesale trade in foodstuffs.
That Was what I called economic organi-
sation of industry. Our tinned sausage
and salad was very popular with all
classes.
One morning a lady called in to see
the manager.
She waved a white jug under my nose.
Making trams go backwards.
“This,” she stated vehemently, “is not
my jug. My jug has lovely sprays of
roses on it. You sent this jug back to
me. I want my jug.”
“Madam,” I replied, “if we sent that
jug back to you, it must be yours. We
cannot be mistaken. Our index system


HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“PUNTERS ARE MUGS,”
by
C. W. JUDD.
Tieu/ 0 com smote at/7 urio/i
wmt/ wrf-UHntof a&otcf
SMOKt
: x ■
v,v
;
:
■
THIS SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE a m , . e
SMOKi STAINS
kemovss
SAFE WAY
Special stain-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is not contained in any other
leading dentifrice. Make the simple test that surprises smokers. Thousands
find dull, ugly teeth become naturally white and sparkling.
If you smoke, you’ve probably noticed stains on your teeth, or an ugly yellow
smudge. Now there is a way to keep the faintest smoke trace from showing on
your teeth. This way is Pepsodent, the special film-removing tooth paste.
No matter what dentifrice you now use, switch to Pepsodent to-day and make
the smokers’ test. See how Pepsodent immediately "takes hold” to make teeth
cleaner, whiter, more attractive. Let your mirror prove that they glisten with
natural whiteness many smokers think impossible to attain.
It Works in a More Effective Way
In Pepsodent is a special ingredient designed especially to remove the film on
teeth. It is this film, not the teeth themselves, that smoke discolors. Therefore,
this film must be removed if you want to escape that unnatural yellow color.
It is film your dentist tells you to remove in fighting tooth decay and other dental
troubles.
This remarkable film-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is contained in no other,
leading dentifrice. Not only does it bring out the natural whiteness of your
teeth, but it also polishes enamel to the highest brilliance. In addition, this
"Special Film-Removing tooth paste” has another major distinction: it is the
softest . . . and therefore the safest ... of 15 leading
tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders as shown by
scientific tests.
Try Pepsodent to-day. Not until you do can you
know how beautifully white your teeth are.
PEPSODENT
T he Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have cut
costs and we are passing
the saving on to you.
The identical time-proved
Pepsodent is ready for you.
in the new larger tubes at
no increase in price.
N t 363
V
BANKofNEWSOUTH WALES
i
i
//
$
w«tt(
<rrr;
Malanda Branch in 1914
Malanda, 83 miles S.W. of Cairns, was surrounded
by dense tropical scrub when the Bank of New
South Wales established a branch there in 1914.
Today, the Malanda district is one of the best
dairying areas in Australia, selling its butter
throughout Australia and exporting its surplus to
London.
Malanda provides one of the hundreds of examples
of the service rendered by the Bank of New South
Wales to the pioneers developing virgin country.
Deposits lodged with this Bank in more settled areas
are utilised to promote development outback. Thus
settlement is extended and production increased.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
197A.38
of recording dishes in and dishes out is
infallible.”
“It is not' my jug,” she reiterated. “I
never owned a plain thing like this.”
Fortunately Joe came in in time to
prevent a deadlock. He carried a deli-
cate and dainty cut-out of roses and
leaves.
“Look what I found in the separating-
room,” he said.
In a flash I understood what had hap-
pened. Joe must have turned on an extra
strong current of magnetism and towed
those flowers off the jug.
I took the jug from the lady, drew Joe
on one side and quietly explained the
trouble.
“Leave it to me,” he said, going out
with the jug and the decorations. When
he returned shortly after, the jug was
properly adorned with its pretties. The
lady departed, satisfied, but full of con-
tempt at our business methods.
For some days subsequent to this in-
cident Joe was in a thoughtful mood.
Then he came into the office and re-
quested me to write my name on a piece
of paper. I did so, and Joe bent over
it in his most magnetic manner. The
next moment the paper was bare, as
though I had never touched it, and my
signature was lying in Joe’s palm. I
Flung himself at the canvas.
looked at the tracery of ink and gasped
as I visualised the possibilities.
Yes, you’ve guessed it. Joe and I
went into the drawing of cheques as a
sideline to our main business. Acting
in my usual cautious way, I made private
arrangements with my bank regarding
all cheques purporting to bear my sig-
nature. Not that I distrusted Joe, but I
knew how he could be carried away by
his artistic fervor. As it happened, my
forethought was not unwarranted ; quite
a number of cheques were presented for
which I was not quite responsible.
Our method of dealing with cheques
was simplicity itself. Supposing we re-
ceived a cheque for £l, Joe would remove
the figures and rearrange them to form
£lOO. Since we were always careful to
gather collections of our customers’ calli-
graphies, we had no difficulty in making
up the word “hundred.” Thus we were
not detected. Nobody could point to a
forgery, for under our system there was
no forgery; the cheque was always
filled in by the pen of the man who
signed it.
WE were on the highway to wealth
when Joe became entangled with art.
He said he wanted to use his skill in
drawing to an aesthetic purpose. So he
painted the word “Studio” on the door
of a spare room in our premises, and
began to put' in all his spare time there.
The exigencies of commerce keeping me
fully occupied, it was some time before
I saw anything of his work.
One night he invited me up to his
studio and showed me his first serious
study. The picture was of a beautiful
girl, done in the neon-elastic style, with
a dash of symbolism in the treatment of
her raiment. Joe said it was actually an
attempt at still-life. I congratulated him
on a fine achievement, but he advised
me to wait and he’d show me what he
really could do.
Sure enough, he produced some mag-
nificent works of art'. His genius was
apparent in the speed with which he
worked. In a week he turned out fifteen
striking portraits. He would fill his mind
with the appearance of his subject, then
impress the likeness upon the canvas by
means of his repellent force. How im-
pressive his technique was I did not
understand at that time.
Of course, I did not permit him to
neglect commerce for art, so that our
affairs were in a favorable condition.
But one day I received a shock. A
detective from Russell-street called in.
Joe dealt with him, telling me later that
the officer was merely inquiring about a
number of people who had recently dis-
appeared. Unless the detective con-
sidered they might have been mislaid
among the crockery we cleaned I was
not able to say why he had come to us.
For some minutes, though, I feared some
inkling of our cheque-drawing might
have got to the C. 1.8.
But this provides an illustration of
Joe’s flair for portraiture. That same
night he had finished a superb likeness
of the detective hunting for a clue, a
triumph of reproduction.
It seemed, however, that the matter
of the missing people was arousing public
attention, particularly when it came out
that the detective searching for them was
missing as well. I was not interested
until a newspaper published photos, of
the victims. When I saw those photos.
I was horrified. Without exception, they
were one and all the subjects of Joe’s
portraits.
Oppressed by a nameless fear, I at once
sought Joe. He must have been gripped
by the same emotion also, for when I
found him in the studio he was acting
in a most distraught manner.
“You’ve seen the photos.?” I
demanded.
“Worse than that,” he wailed. .
“What?”
“Yes. The police. They’re sending a
special squad to arrest me. They’ve got
the goods on me for all these.”
Joe indicated the row of portraits. I
stared, stupefied.
“You see,” Joe went on ; “all the miss-
ing persons are here —in this room.”
Not seeing any corpses littering the
floor, I looked for an explanation. Joe
pointed at' the canvases.
“That’s them —the real people them-
selves. I couldn’t be bothered painting
them ; too much like work; so I im-
pressed them on the canvas.” He placed
himself in front of an empty canvas and
looked at me pathetically. “Old man,
I’m sorry, but the police want you, too.”
“Me?”
“Yes. They think you’re my partner
in crime . . . It’s good-bye, old chap.
We’ll never be taken alive. You and I
will make a splendid example of still-
life.”
I acted instinctively. As the stream
of magnetism shot from Joe, I ducked
and missed it by a fraction of an inch.
Then the magnetism reversed to repel-
lent, and Joe flung himself on to the
empty canvas in a burst of personality.
I stood for a moment admiring the
strangest example of self-portraiture I
have seen or expect to see. Then a thun-
derous knocking reminded me of my peri-
lous position. The police!
Waiting only to inscribe “Joe Bossel,
by Himself” on the canvas, I fled down
to the separating-room, projected myself
down the savories chute, and had myself
exported as a case of tinned tongue. The
last act of my commercial career.
But I often return to Melbourne in
order to visit Joe in the Art Gallery.
There is no doubt he is a masterly speci-
men of still-life, though, as far as that
goes, I think I’m a better one.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK f LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directobs —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• i
(irGalUirri*
S«<t lOh‘U"i
■
n
jVa/ne y's —
(l) c Calluro’s
Distributors for the House of McCollum
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. - - - - -
, Sydney,
Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - -
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. •
- Fremantlt
- - - Hobart
Have You Ever Been Thirsty in February?:—
FROZEN
PUMPS
BY A.W UPFLELD.
HOUR by hour and day by day we
drew ever nearer to Ma Slavin’s
pub; every day the distance
dwindled between the pub and the line
of fence we were building. Foaming
schooners of beer grew ever larger and
more numerous as the crimson February
suns went to their rest.
The fence was begun at a point four-
teen miles from Ma Slavin’s pub, and it
was destined to be finished a mile and
a quarter from that haven of delight.
The mile and the quarter was the width
of the Paroo River. The new fence was
to subdivide a paddock the eastern
boundary of which skirted the Paroo,
and from this boundary fence it was per-
mitted one to gaze across the flat, dry,
grey bed of the river to observe the
brown-painted, wooden building pro-
tected by pepper-trees growing on high
land on the far shore.
As the Midnight Mail was eager to
point out, twelve miles and six furlongs
of fencing at £lB per mile would pro-
vide us each with 4590 schooners of
beer, less 600 schooners for tucker, leav-
ing a balance of 3990 schooners. He
further pointed out, quite unnecessarily,
that 3990 schooners were not to be
sneezed at in February. With a stick
and two square yards of New South
Wales, he showed that, in our then con-
dition of bankruptcy, if we began work
at the end of the job farthest from Ma
Slavin’s pub, we would not be so
strongly tempted to draw schooners at
every week’s end, and that it was much
better to handle 3990 schooners at one
standing, as it were, than in dribs and
drabs.
“I’ve got the plant, ’Ampshire,” he
announced. “The boss’ll let us draw
rations and tobacco against the job. We’ll
start at this mark here and work across
the paddock towards Ma’s joint, and
then when we reach the far side, here,
we’ll have the job done. All we gotter
do then is to walk across the Paroo and
tell Ma to ring up the boss to O.K. the
cash and then begin serving us with our
3990 schooners. I know Ma Slavin.
D’rectly she knows the money’s jake,
she’ll say: ‘All right, boys! We lets ’er
go.’ And then we downs ’em, ’Amp-
shire, downs nearly four thousand
schooners. Think of it, ’Ampshire!
Nearly four thousand schooners!”
Like a tenth-rate fool, I fell for it.
The Midnight Mail was wickedly wast-
ing his time as a fencer: he should have
been a land salesman. He was a tall,
deceptive-looking man with stooping
shoulders, weak eyes, flat feet and a
walrus moustache. For years he had
pushed a pedal-less bike loaded with
swag and rations, choosing to do his
travelling at night and at express speed.
Then he married the Paroo Parrot, and,
in exchange for her buckboard and team,
he maintained her and her tribe of chil-
dren for something like two years. Then
there occurred an unofficial divorce, but
the Midnight Mail retained the turnout,
as well as the pedal-less bike, without
which he would not move.
FOR the first three weeks we cut the
posts, which the station bullocky laid
along the line. When we started the post-
hole digging and post erection on the
first mile, I could no longer sweat. We
began at daybreak, took one hour off for
lunch, and continued until dark. As one
hypnotised, I worked ; but the Midnight
Mail sang and whistled and constantly
estimated the number of schooners
already awaiting us at Ma Slavin’s pub.
He was a lightning ready-reckoner, and
he always expressed values in schooners
of beer.
“Now you just take ’er easy, ’Amp-
shire,” he would say when night had
vanquished the flies, and saws and hot
irons were at work on my muscles. “You
take ’er easy. I’ll bake the damper and
sling on a bit of meat. A bloke’s gotter
get hardened up to this kind of work.
Lemme see! Yes, we’ve gathered fifteen
hundred and thirty-seven schooners
between us so far.”
“Come on, ’Ampshire!” he would call
when the sky only hinted at the coming
day. “Breakfust’s ready! We gotter pile
up the schooners to-day. Tear into some
of these chops and down ’em with sauce.
There’s nothing like sauce to put steam
into a bloke, followed by a swig of
painkiller just before we starts work.”
In the dawning, we would leave for
the job with my hands as stiff as leather
my spine a vast area of pain, my brair.
stunned by the need for sleep. The
Midnight Mail constantly urged me to
“take ’er easy,” but never for an instant
did he stop for a blow. Pride was a
driver .more relentless and cruel than a
galley slave’s master. The sun was a
celestial hell; the ground was the lid of
a stove ; the flies were a million devils.
To leave a crowbar on the ground for
ten minutes prohibited its use for an
hour while it cooled in the shade of a
mulga. Heat and friction blunted the
auger bits. The mulga posts were like
cement, the ground was like cement, the
wire was a writhing, menacing monster
devilishly desirous of flicking out an eye
or strangling a man, but' mile after mile
that fence crept across the huge paddock
towards Ma Slavin’s pub, and day by
day the tally of cool and foaming
schooners rose higher and higher.
“Take ’er easy, ’Ampshire! We’ve
earned two thousand schooners to date,”
said the drawling voice from somewhere
in that hell. “The first hundred schooners
we’ll pour down our gullets like water.
The second hundred we’ll lower gentle
like, and from then on we’ll let ’em slide
acrost our tongues like lengths of silk
ribbon.”
When, at our work, we came in. sight
of the river that hadn’t run its full course
but once during the white man’s settle-
ment, when there were 130 schooners to
be earned before we staggered joyously
to paradise, the work became appreciably
slower. It was impossible not to pause
now and then to gaze across the wide,
flat area of sunbaked mud rubble to the
distant hotel cuddled by the green
pepper-trees on the far shore. The un-
pleasant situation of the rich man in
hell who was refused a drink by St.
Peter or someone was no worse than
ours.
IT was about ten minutes to one in
the morning when the job was fin-
ished, for we worked half that last night
in the moonlight. If the ants had not
been so bad, I would have camped at
the new junction of the two fences. We
lurched back to camp, there to drop on
our stretchers and lie like the dead.
Recovery was slow, and, of course,
mine was much slower than that
of the Midnight Mail. Half a bottle each
of painkiller partially restored me and
fully restored him. A half-pannikin each
of sauce almost restored me and more
than restored my mate. He wanted to
leave then for Ma Slavin’s pub, but the
limit had long been reached and passed.
“We’ll leave the horses ’ere in this
paddock, ’Ampshire,” decided the Mid-
night Mail. “They’ll be all right', and
so’ll the camp. All we’ll need do in the
mornin’ is to roll a bit of a swag.”
In a comatose state, I listened to the
tale of nigh four thousand schooners,
sleep beaten back by exhaustion and that
slow, drawling voice. Just to lie on the
stretcher and feel the cool night air was
heaven enough. It was, however, not to
last. Directly day dawned, the Mid-
night Mail skipped about the camp, roll-
ing his swag, cooking breakfast, stow-
ing gear into the tent.
“Come on, ’Ampshire! ” he called with
annoying cheerfulness. “Come on; now!
’Ave a wash and roll your swag. There’s
salt chops and damper for breakfast,
but there’s nigh four thousand schooners
waiting for us acrost the river. Hum —de
—dum —dum! Hum —de —hum—hum! ”
We ate the tasteless meal. The pic-
ture of foaming schooners was blurred
by another of cold butter and yeast
bread, coffee made with milk, and bacon
and eggs. Red-eyed and weary, will-
power destroyed by labor, sight almost
gone through sandy blight, I could no
longer listen intelligently to the tale of
“Nigh Four Thousand Schooners.”
Yet, such was the effect of the Mid-
night' Mail’s optimism, I felt almost gay
when we set off for the river and Ma
Slavin’s pub. We laughed at nothing-
due, perhaps, to the last bottle of pain-
killer—and we decided we would borrow
two of Ma’s bedroom jugs from which
to take our first fifty schooners. The
sun rose that morning with seemingly
less heat'. The flies were less tormenting.
The mulgas looked beautiful. Age had
fallen from us like a worn cloak. We
strode through the half-mile of mulga
to the Paroo like joyous children. We
reached the boundary fence, to cling to
it weakly—to gaze at Ma Slavin’s pub
across a mile and a quarter of water.
F>R the first time in memory the Mid-
night Mail was speechless. Slowly pass-
ing us was that mile and a quarter
stretch of water, bearing on its ripple-
less surface the debris of years. It came
lazily round a wide bend to the north,
and as lazily passed from sight round
another bend to the south. After a full
two minutes, the Midnight Mail opened
wide his mouth to curse. I expected
an oration of remarkable force, but his
mouth closed for another minute. Then
he whispered plaintively:
“Stone the ruddy crows!”
He drooped. I thought he would col-
lapse. Then he broke into a whirl of
energy.
“Come on, ’Ampshire!” he shouted.
“A mile below that bend a sand spit
crosses the river. It’ll keep back the
water for a bit. It might still be dry
t’other side. Come on! Come on!
Never mind your swag!”
We ran down-river, the Devil of Desire
prodding us from behind, and we yelled
like lunatics when we saw dry land
below a wide, white bar of sand. On
reaching it, it could be seen zigzagging
from shore to shore, a wall of debris
grounded along its top side, here and
there water trickling across it.
“Come on, ’Ampshire! ” urged the
Midnight Mail. “We’ll cross a bit
further down. Afore we could walk
that sand bar the water would get too
deep.”
He led the way for half a mile below
the sand bar, and then out along a tongue
of sand which shortened the width of the
grey rubble by three furlongs.
Grey rubble! Loose, iron-hard, baked-
mud pebbles crowning wide stars of sun-
baked mud, each separated by three-
inch-wide, fathomless cracks. Our boots
slipped on the surface rubble, gained no
firm purchase for frantic feet hurrying,
hurrying to Ma Slavin’s pub and nearly
four thousand schooners. Above us, the
relentless sun. About us, the already-
heated and motionless air. Below us, a
strange gurgling noise as though there
had come to the Paroo all the giant earth-
worms from Gippsland. Winded, legs
like cooling lead, I fell, crawled, lurched
up, fell again, crawled, again lurched up
to run after the lank man who never
knew fatigue.
THE water, banked up by the sand bar,
had at last swept the line of debris
across it, and now was bringing it down
on us with deceptive speed, rolling it
over and over where some projection
caught in the mud, sweeping it forward
without apparent movement when tem-
porarily there was sufficient water
under it to float it along. We were
half-way across when the sheen of water
appeared half a mile down-river. The
gurgling noise beneath us was growing
ever louder, and then deep in the cracks,
could be seen the tarnished glint of evil
water.
Up and up came those tarnished glints
to melt like sugar the surface rubble on
the great stars of baked mud. Here and


o
aUESTIONS
we ate ala<l to
AN SWER
I
The Rural Bank is your bank. Its operations are an
important part of the life of the State. Here are some
questions which may have occurred to you .•. and the
interesting answers.
Q. How long has the Rural Bank been serving the
State ?
A. Since 1899, when it commenced as the Advances
to Settlers Board.
Q. Of what assistance has it been?
A. Since its inception it has made 91,000 advances;
totalling nearly £49,000,000.
Q. To whom has this money been lent ?
A. To farmers and home-builders, thereby stimulating
primary production and directly helping to in-
crease employment.
Q. How much has all this cost the taxpayer ?
A. Not a penny 1 From its inception the Bank has
made regular but moderate profits consistent with
its policy of “ maximum service at minimum cost.”
Q. Where does the Bank get the money it lends ?
A. A considerable proportion is derived from the
transaction of usual banking business —Fixed
Deposits and Current Accounts. Funds are also
derived from the issue of Inscribed Stock and
debentures and capital repayments on existing
loans.
Fixed deposits are accepted and cheque
accounts opened at all branches
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ĵ
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH': 350 GEORGE ST. (opp. Wynyard St.)
Commissioners :
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
*
V
p
a
4
£2
-wm.
Hill
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
247 George St., 59 William St.
Sydney- Melbourne.
there appeared water: first pools of it,
then lakes and creeks, spreading, spread-
ing on either side, behind and before us.
Feet sank into new mud, clogging and
sticky. Feet slipped off the stars into the
leg-breaking cracks. Dry land melted
like blotting-paper in brown ink. With
a quarter-mile still to go, we be-
came bogged like cattle. It was as
though we and the riverbed were sink-
ing into the sea, and it would have been
better had the “sea” been a mile deep.
“Lie down flat, ’Ampshire,” shouted
the Midnight Mail, setting the example.
“Keep flat, .’Ampshire. When the water’s
deep enough we can paddle ashore over
the mud before the current gets too
strong. Look out for this mullock wave!
We’ll get acrost, all right. Near four
thousand schooners is waiting for us,
’Ampshire.”
Fouled with mud, we lay flat in slime
barely an inch deep, watching the toss-
ing wall of debris —bush and grass and
sticks —rolling towards us, and seeming
to grow higher and higher every moment,
an inch of slime in front of it, a foot
of water behind it. To stand had be-
come impossible, for the crown of each
“star” was smeared with mud.
The long line of debris continued its
advance, slowed here and there when
projections on its underside caught in
the mud, and then it would roll over
with tiny crackling sounds when the
water behind it pushed and heaved it
forward. It reached us when but two
inches of water covered the ground. At
the last moment we stood up, our feet
in cracks for purchase, and then we were
fighting the debris, tearing it asunder
with our hands to let it pass by and not
over us. It was alive with ants and scor-
pions and centipedes. Here and there
small snakes lay entwined. The mass of
sticks and bush rose and fought us, creak-
ing and hissing, pushing with terrific
force. Insects bit and stung our hands.
The ends of sticks prodded at our bodies,
our faces. And quite abruptly it was
past us, and the water was reaching our
knees.
“Lie down again, ’Ampshire!” shouted
the Midnight Mail. “Come on. We
gotter paddle ashore afore she gets too
deep and the current gets too strong.”
With just sufficient water to float our
bodies, we clawed our way towards the
shore by digging fingers into mud. Semi-
drowned, venomous insects floated
against us. Dazed but angry whip and
saltbush snakes wriggled through the
water hoping to find dry land on our
shoulder-blades. But we made progress.
The cooling water invigorated lethargic
muscles, and fear gave additional energy,
fear of becoming entangled in the lan-
tana a mile below us.
Presently the Midnight Mail shouted
and lurched to his feet, and a moment
later I felt not mud but the hard sur-
face of a claypan under me. It gave us
fifty yards of walking through knee-deep
water, and then we had to swim for a
hundred yards across a channel to reach
the foot of clean, red sandhills.
“ ’Ad we bin an hour later, ’Ampshire,
we’d have been blocked from them four
thousand schooners,” calmly pointed out
the Midnight Mail. “As it is, we’ve only
to walk up-river for a mile and a bit
to hit Ma Slavin’s pub. Come on!”
No suggestion of a spell came from
him. Spells were not to be thought of
when “nigh four thousand schooners of
beer lay ahead.” I staggered after the
tall, sinuous figure of the most noted
fencer west o’ Darling, and, as though
through a glass darkly, I came to see
far ahead of us, on the rise of ground,
the neat wooden hotel flanked with
pepper-trees.
ALREADY our clothes were dry and
stiff with mud. Mud partially filled
our boots, and, drying, bunched under
toes and insteps. It was good mud, too.
It was an excellent mud for the com-
plexion, because it caked on the skin
and defied the flies. Dogs came to meet
us, evincing great joy, and the Midnight
Mail’s joy was no less. He almost rail
up the rising ground, and if I hadn’t run
behind him I’d have fallen for keeps.
Ma Slavin came to stand on her front
verandah to examine us with her beady
eyes. There was distinct disapproval on
her hard face. Two men came to life
from beneath the pepper-trees, and they
began to laugh. Behind Ma we could
see the handles of the beer-pumps in the
bar. A cockatoo screamed:
“Stone the crows!”
“Good day-ee, Ma Slavin!” shouted
the Midnight Mail. “Me and ’Ampshire’s
just done that bit of fencing for old Mar-
shall. Ring him up and get him to name
the cheque. We got nearly four thou-
sand schooners each coming to us.
Fill ’em up, Ma! Come on, you blokes!
Come on, Ma! Fill ’em up for all
hands!”
The men laughed. Ma Slavin’s thin
lips twitched.
“The pumps are frozen,” she said
coldly, triumphantly. “The teamsters
have broached the loading down at
Stephen’s Creek, and they’re dead-
drunk. There isn’t a drop of one
schooner in the place. Come in and try
the pumps for yourself if you don’t be-
lieve me. They’re dry, I tell you.”
Paid Off.
Better to wear out your chain
than greet fresh lands that dawn through
veiling rain.
Those times are overpast
when one gave chase if fortune fled too
fast,
and virtue was —go out and steal your
food :
their derelict veers down our blood,
still; but the hands are all paid off
ashore . . .
We had best preserve our bootsoles,
moved no more
by any tremor of coiled wire that mocks
the physical Jack, jumped clean out of
the box.
FIJI.
BOBERT D. FITZGERALD.
The World’s Last Place.
It was the world’s last place!
The desolate land,
Dreary with ringbarked trees,
Ran down to sand.
The holes scooped in the earth’s unlovely
floor
Were thick with slime,
As though some fearful beast of long-
gone time
Had blundered there and left its spoor . . .
And in that place,
Where stiff brown thistles marched apace
And fungus withered in the weeds,
The wind among the grasses bleached and
coarse
Went whinnying like a hungry horse . . .
And under the pale, leering sky
Old fences leaned awry,
And rotted posts
(Whose rusty nails had dropped
Like lepers’ fingers ) lay
Close-coffined in the dust,
And lichens thrust
Through walls untenanted and grey.
It was the world’s last place.
So when I saw
A pink-frocked child with laughing face
Run through the thistle-stalks and chase
A drunken, gold-flecked bee,
l looked and almost thought to see
Upon those cheeks as sweet as dawn
Some seal that marked her devil’s spawn r
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Herefords.
Beneath this red-gum’s twisted loveliness
Of blue-grey boughs, and leaves, and
blossom flow’rs,
I hear the ripples in the reeds confess
Their love for this above all other
hours :
This stealthy hour, when in the afterglow
Swift is the growth of shadows on the
hill —
Swift, magically swift, yet seeming slow,
As from deep rifts their purple stains
they spill;
This sombre hour, bereft of golden glees
Sung by the birds in sunshine-fretted
dells;
This drowsy hour, when through the
dim-seen trees
The wind brings sleepy sounds of
cattle-bells.
I turn my eyes towards the murm’ring
creek,
And, knee-deep in its moving waters
cool,
The white-faced heifers stand so still, so
meek,
Reflected in a willow-curtained pool.
God, I had never known that beasts
could be
So beautiful and good until this hour,
When, by the creek beneath this red-gum
tree,
You have endowed my eyes with some
new pow’r !
N.S.W.
T. ROSE.


<<
THAT’S THAT!
99
thin,..
<1
*
s
llltMS==
SnfflES
■:S
Fv-
TTT^
a
2^
-. --'
< *
as
Sr
ex
n
r
i
c*
"\
Hi
W¥]/\
ssff 5
«&***•*
7
r/r+M
vv\>
V
✓lO
No more MONEY, TIME or TROUBLE
will have to be spent on it for
20 or 30 YEARS
ft
Chain - and-Knob
Fastener always
holds gate secure-
ly closed and can-
not be knocked
off, or lifted off
by cattle.
Both hinges are bolt-
ed right through the
post—cannot loosen
or pull out.
TWENTY or thirty years is nothing in the life of a “Cyclone”
Gate. Our records show that old-timers hung twenty and
thirty years ago are still in use, operating as efficiently as ever,
looking almost as good as when they were new. And today’s
“Cyclone” Gates are, naturally, much improved, better and stronger
in every way.
Electrical welding throughout makes one inseparable unit of the steel
tubing frame and cross members. There is not a single bolt hole
into which water can penetrate and set up rust. The solid hinges
bolt through the post, to completely prevent dropping or dragging,
and to assure smooth sweet operation as long as the gate lasts.
You can look for a lifetime of service from a “Cyclone” Gate. Let
us tell you more about them. Fill in and post the coupon below for
our catalogue which gives facts and figures about “Cyclone” Gates.
“Cyclone” is not a type of Gate, but is our registered trademark
and can only be legally applied to Gates manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY., LTD.
THE GRACE BUILDING, 77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Cuclone Gates
8820
j
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name .
Address
B. 12/2/’36.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.C.: It might have got through in the years
when suffragettes were on the rampage; it has
very little point nowadays... .L.V.: No luck.
. ...H.M.W.: An old theme, handled without
much freshness Z.W.: It has a touch of
feeling, but those things have been said so
often... .M.M.: There’s a moral in it, but
little melody... .C.P.: Verses lack any trace
of distinction. And isn’t Gorgonzola an Italian
product?... .L.A.S.: Some swing, but no
artistry J.S.: The dollypot demands some-
thing with more tinkle in it....A.N.P.:
“Walrus Man” doesn’t earn his keep....
D.C.: None of the batch is quite good enough.
T.J.H.: Correct in form, but unsuitable.
Chale:
Strange November wind
Wind out of season.
—Very... .H.D.: There’s a lot of truth in it.
. ...R.0.A.: 4200 words! It could have been
told in 1000... .K.M.F.: No, it’s far from the
week’s worst, but a long way below the best.
.. ..1.L.M.: Too full of echoes... .D.W.C.:
Keep at it. You have youth on your side....
R.N.H.: A variation of a very old smokeroom
yarn.... Arev.: Dad’s ruminations on hikers
sent on the long, long trail... .Sprok.: They
don’t quite strike the vein... .G.E.W.: Have
you tried putting her on a diet? M.R.L.:
Or is love a myth—a phantasy,
O tell me, is that all?
We asked our most-married husband and our
most-unmarried bachelor, and they agreed that
it probably was A.E.P.: No space for
sonnets about Aurora and “Sol’s Chariot.”
This is 1936... .A.M.: Nor for lottery yarns.
....Stimmer (Fiji): Not enough laughs to the
square foot Euralia : Don’t doubt the inci-
dent is authentic, but it fails to satisfy as
a story... .J.W.McC.: Neatly enough done,
but the plot is too slender. Try something
more meaty F.A.: About as lucid as a
couple of gigolos discussing the A + B
theorem H.F.T.: Theme a bit hackneyed,
though well treated; you might unload else-
where. .. .L.H.J.: Style snappy, but plot
anaemic... .C.J.R.: Too melodramatic; other-
wise convincing enough. Have another shot.
... .L.G.McK.: This must be the open season
for Maoris who acquire sudden wealth and
splash it up riotously—yours is the umpteenth
this month... .T.D.8.: Your style’s all wrong,
brother —people don’t speak in stilted, chopped-
up paragraphs; and the respectable, stern
mother who is a disguised cattle-thief at night
hit the w.p.b. aeons ago J.G.H.: That yarn
should have its setting in County Cork; the
“begobs” and “begorrahs” assayed high
P.D.H.: Old Zanzibar and the eighteenth cen-
tury! We’ve sworn off that diet A.G.8.:
Couldn’t raise enthusiasm over it R.C.
(M.L.): “Just Too Bad” is J.F.P.: Rather
depressing, and we could see the denouement
quite early 1.M.M.: Not enough in it
C.U.L.: Handled with more humor, it might
have stood a chance... .M.K.: You’ve the
atmosphere all right, but the incident is only
worth a par..,...W.H.E. (M.L.): F.a.q. hand-
ling and plot, but just fails to make the grade.
I.G.: It has an unsatisfactory ending; and
casual railway passengers don’t tell their life-
stories before the train’s out of the platform.
Stranger:
I'll not stop another day
But be on my homeward way.
You’ll have to hurry if you want to get there
ahead of your manuscript... .E.V.8.: “His
lyre to the Bard returns.” And his verses
M.D.: Who wrote it? M.L.: An old, un-
satisfying theme... .L.W.: Can’t conscien-
tiously recommend you to try it anywhere else.
Scrap it and get another idea... .A.L.W.:
Perkins must be about the 10,000 th man to
attack his own reflection in a mirror....
K.T.S.: They don’t suit.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENT^.
C. 8.: The gent, would look more present-
able if his legs were attached to his body
T.S.: Rejected because of disregard of law of
perspective... .N.H.S.: All the figures seem to
have enjoyed a glorious mud-bath A.T.L.:
No use for ancient jests and drawings so small
and untidy... .8.5.: Signs of slight improve-
ment —but only slight.... H.H.: Wheeze seems
to have strayed from some undertakers’ trade
journal... .A.M.: Study from life, not from
photographs, and make your jokes more
concise... .F.T.: King Billy only needs a pig-
tail and a vegetable basket to turn him into
a Chinaman... .V.P.: Lunatic-asylum “jokes”
are not welcomed S.F.M.: You should
make the grade provided you stick to your
studies... .R.W.: Have seen worse first efforts,
but not many... .M.D.C.: You’re on the right
track—pay more attention to the layout of
your drawings... .H.S.: The campfire jesters
are peacefully slumbering in the basket....
E.D.: Not a cheque-winner among the dozen.
... .C.R.S.: Style is too freakish, and the gags
are anaemic... .F.N. : You’re years late with
that bodyline cartoon... .C.T.W.: A dreary
collection of fashion-plates and superannuated
quips... .W.R.K.: Outsize cartoon in which
a sea-serpent is chasing a bear over the surf
emphatically declined.... P.D.: Spectacle of
corpulent drunk on garbage-tin made us
shudder... .E.J.M.: Don’t you ever look at
the drawings published in The Bulletin?
A.H.J.: A couple show distinct promise—let
us hear from you again... .E.N.: Jest about
the travelling salesman and the pigfarmer has
been going the rounds for years... .F.K.:
Niggling little strokes and a juvenile sense of
humor... .P.R.T.: Learn something about
anatomy before you try again G.R.: Your
horse has legs like an elephant’s and a tail
like a pig’s.
“Eck de Schulzbach”: Schaeffer has
himself modified his well-known method
of resuscitation of the apparently
drowned (B. 25 /12/’35), and the revised
method has been adopted by the Royal
Life Saving Association. The Surf Life
Saving Association follows yet another
modification. Five seconds, instead of
four, are taken for the complete respira-
tory movement, the extra second encour-
aging the patient to try to breathe. In
the Royal Life Saving Association
method, the weight is placed chiefly on
the abdomen, while the Surf Life Savers
press slightly higher up. Descriptions of
the two methods are replete with direc-
tions for handling fat or muscular sub-
jects without landmarks.
**• * *
“ ’Poticary”: That yarn of the mid-
night reveller who was run into by a
stationary motor-car (B. 22 /1 / ’36) re-
minds me of the time I was called in to
see Hefty Hoolihan, a giant selector some
miles out of our township. I found him
a mass of sprains and bruises. “It’s this
way,” he said ; “y’ know w’at a dare-
devil I am for bad ’orses?” I didn’t, but
nodded. “Th’ little missus was always
begging me not to ride that outlaw of
mine, th’ W’ite Demon, but like a dashed
fool I must saddle ’im and go inter town.
Th’ swine tried to get rid of me all th’
way in an’ out till at th’ five-mile gate
th’ bit breaks an’ he bolts. He takes me
through that two-mile strip of brigalow
where y’ have to chop out th’ cows with
axes if they get inter it, through th’
rabbit fence an’ th’ crick, an’ finally falls
down with me at th’ yard an’ rolls on
me.” I gave him what aid I could ; on
my way home I met his neighbor, Hal-
loran. “Terrible time Hoolihan seems to
have had with that outlaw horse of his,"
I said. He laughed loud and long at my
story. “Him on a roughie?” he snorted.
“The on’y ’orse he ever rides is that 15-
year-old w’ite moke waitin’ at the kitchen
door there for bread crusts.” “Well, what
happened?” I asked, mystified. “Oh, he
jes’ come home shick an’ his little missus
bashed ’im.”


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover or last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. _ . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Well-educated young woman (18) desires
position as subsidised school-teacher or gov-
erness. Refs. —279.
Engineer (39), N.S.W., desires position as
salesman or in drafting office. Overseas exp.,
costs, production, F.C.A.A., organising, etc.—
229.
Bachelor (30), 10 years’ tropical exp. books,
stores, shipping and plantations, accustomed
to handling native labor, wants position, any
capacity, South Seas. Isolation not objected
t 0.—286.
Successful farmer and adult son, Vic., seek
engagement flat country as share-farmers, with
object buying property if satisfactory; own
complete plant.—264.
Station book-keeper, Central Q., with wife
housekeeper, wants employment, any State. —
269.
To buy 1926 Chevrolet car instruction
manual. —291.
Words of poem by Arthur H. Adams, pub-
lished late in 1915, dealing with the fortitude
of Sergeant S. A. Taylor (now W.A. Auditor-
General) when wounded at Gallipoli.—24l.
To get in touch with persons or institutions
requiring complete files of The Bulletin for
last six years.—242.
Information Sought.
Does any cricket team hold the distinction of
having put on all players to bowl in a Test
match ? Some particulars of the match. —295.
At Kennington Oval on August 11, 12 and
13, 1884, England gave 11 players a turn with
the ball to try to stop the run-getting of the
Australians after P. S. McDonnell (103), W.
L. Murdoch (211) and H. J. H. Scott (102)
had belted it badly. Wicketkeeper Hon. A.
Lyttleton, tried as a last resource and bowling
“lobs,” took 4 for 19 in 12 overs; the other
10 trundlers sent down 299 overs for 515 runs
and six wickets. Australia scored 551, Eng-
land 346 and 2 for 85, the match being drawn.
Murdoch’s 211 was the highest Test innings to
that date.
* * * *
(1) What were the first-class match results of
the 1919 A.I.F. cricket team ? (2) Who were
the players, and how many of them are still
prominent in big cricket ? (3) Who topped
the batting and bowling averages ? —292.
(1) In England—won 13, lost 4, drawn 15;
in South Africa —won 7, lost 0, drawn 2; in
Australia —won 2, drawn 1. (2) The team con-
sisted of H. L. Collins (captain), C. Kelleway,
C. B. Willis, C. E. Pellew, W. A. Oldfield, J. M.
Taylor, W. L. Trennery, J. M. Gregory, A. W.
Lampard, J. T. Murray, C. T. Docker, E. A.
Bull, W. S. Stirling, C. E. Winning, E. J. Long
and H. S. Love. Oldfield (with the Australian
XI in S. Africa) and Love (with Tarrant’s
tourists in India) are the only members of the
A.l.F. still in big cricket. (3) C. B.
Willis (2151 runs; average, 42.17) and H. L.
Collins (2501 runs; average, 41) were on top
with the bat; and J. M. Gregory (197 wickets;
average, 16.45) and Collins (150 wickets;
average, 17.49) got the harvest with the ball.
* * * *
What are the qualifications for cricketers in
Test cricket ? —265.
Here are the Imperial Cricket Conference
rules on the question: Rule 2.—A cricketer can
be qualified to play in a Test match either by
birth or residence. Rule 3 (a) Qualification by
Birth—A cricketer, unless debarred by the
Imperial Cricket Conference, is always eligible
to play for the country of his birth. (b) Quali-
fication by Residence. —A cricketer, unless
debarred by the Imperial Cricket Conference,
shall be entitled to play for any country in
which he is residing and has been residing
during the four immediately preceding years,
provided that he has not played for the country
of his birth during that period, (c) Notwith-
standing anything hereinbefore contained, any
player who has once played in a Test match
for any country shall not afterwards be eligible
to play in a Test match against that country
without the consent of its Board of Control.
* * * *
(1) Details concerning crocodile-hunting in
Northern Australia ? (2) Names of rivers where
crocodiles are found? (3) Is there a market
for the skins ? —9919.
(1) Crocodile-hunting is carried on at
present mostly in the Victoria and Mary rivers,
yr) Victoria, Adelaide, Katherine, Daly, Roper,
ritzroy, Alligator and McArthur —in fact, all
coastal rivers. (3) No difficulty is experienced
m marketing properly cured skins. Frank L.
Cox, of King House, Queen-street, Brisbane,
is a buyer.
* * * *
, troubled with small black ants which
build in seed-boxes and also around garden
plants. How can I get rid of them without
loss of plants?— 300.
Keep the soil stirred regularly, preventing
the ants from making a fixed home; paint the
outside of the seed-boxes with kerosene or
place the seed-boxes on a raised platform,
sprinkle naphthaline powder on the soil where
, a hts troublesome. As water spoils the
strength of the naphthaline, the powder should
dried 5 ™^ CC * aga)n w hen the surface soil has
„„ How d ° flying-fish fly ? Do they do it by
flapping their fins ?—256.
£ Zo £ log y sect i°n of the British Associ-
, H° n ’ Carter and Mr. Mander, with the
r P a ms , ta ken by Mr. Willmer, brought
artivpK? fl eVK knce that the fins are never
i y lapped,, but serve merely as gliding
S,. the motive power comes entirely from
viKratl’ • th ? L elon gated lower lobe of which
fkh ic LV he - water while all the rest of . the
,v,J n * air - Sometimes the fish will drop
, prnn . fl ™ce and gain momentum for a
’ght by merely reimmersing the bottom
of the tail. The normal flying speed is never
greater than 25 to 30 miles per hour. This is
too low a speed to enable a fish of such weight
to glide in still air; accordingly, it appears that
disturbance of the air above the uneven surface
of the sea normally helps the fish to maintain
its glide.
(1) Where in Melbourne can 1 secure a cor-
respondence course in motion-picture projec-
tion ? (2) Cost of course ? (3) Average time
taken to complete the course ? (4) Must
exams, be passed before registration can be
obtained ? (5) Where are exams, held ? (6) Is
practical experience necessary ? —250.
(1) Melbourne Tech. Coll. (2) £lO cash
or £lO 10s. on the instalment plan, e.g., £2 2s.
deposit and £1 Is. per month. (3) One year
or less. (4) Theoretical and practical exami-
nations set for the Government license must
be passed. (5) The examinations are held at
the college. (6) Access to a plant is absolutely
essential, as no candidate can present himself
for the test unless he can produce evidence
of having had at least two years’ experience
in a biograph-operator’s box. Extracts from
the Cinematograph Operator’s Regulations,
together with a synopsis of the correspondence
course, are obtainable from the college on
application.
* * * #
What are the latest developments in rockets
as a means of transport ? —240.
Prof. Goddard, in America, is attempting
to devise a mechanism which combines the
principles of the rocket and the turbine. He
hopes thereby to give to the world a vehicle
capable of travelling hundreds of miles above
the earth’s surface, possibly even to the moon.
By means of such a mechanism it is computed
the voyage from Berlin to New York could be
accomplished in less than an hour. The
American Rocket Society is experimenting with
rockets using liquid fuel, and in Germany
efforts are being made to develop giant rockets
for the carriage of mails. In Vienna, France
and Russia scientists are attempting to evolve
rockets capable of travelling to the limits of
the earth’s atmosphere, the means of propul-
sion being liquid fuel and the ultimate object
the use of such rockets for the carriage of
mails and passengers.
* * * *
(li Is there still a Jacobite party in existence ?
(2) If so, whom does it recognise as the legiti-
mate heir to the English throne ? (3) On
what is his claim based? —281.
(1) Yes, a party of sorts exists in England.
There is a branch in Maoriland, which pub-
lishes a small paper, the “Jacobite,” twice a
year. (2) Rupert “the First,” a Bavarian gen-
tleman. (3) He is descended from Henrietta,
Duchess of Orleans, daughter of Charles 1.,
and is actually nearer in the direct line than
Edward VIII., whose line (via the Georges)
derives from a daughter of James I. The Act
of Settlement (1701), of course, fixed the
Hanoverian succession, and all kings since that
date have ascended the throne by the will of
Parliament, and not by divine right.
* * * *
Some details concerning a proposed tunnel
under the Straits of Gibraltar ? —268.
The Spanish scheme to link Europe with
Africa by tunnelling under the Straits of
Gibraltar is estimated to involve an expenditure
of about £9,000,000, and to take about six
years to complete. It is proposed that the
Spanish entrance to the tunnel shall be near
Tarifa, 14 miles from Algeciras, the other
end being at Punta Felguera, in the Spanish
Protectorate in Morocco, close to the inter-
national zone of Tangiers. The length would
be about 12 miles. Electric trains could pass
through in 30 minutes. The tunnel would be
double, the two tubes being linked at intervals.
Later a third tunnel for motor traffic might
be added; but the technical difficulties of
ventilation are too great for this extension at
present.
* * it- *
Details concerning the courses of training in
social-welfare work provided at the Sydney Uni.
by the Board of Social Study and Training:
(1) Qualifications of intending students; (2)
when and where to enrol; (3) subjects of regu-
lar courses ? (4) Any special courses ? —284.
(1) (a) Leaving certificate or matriculation;
( b ) health certificate; (c) students may be
required to pass a test at the Australian Insti-
tute of Industrial Psychology. In certain cir-
cumstances senior students, experienced in
social work, may be exempt from (a) at the
discretion of the board. (2) Applications must
be in the hands of the secretary, 5 Hamilton-
street, Sydney, by the end of the first week
in March. Students are enrolled under the
Faculty of Arts. Preference is given to
graduates and undergraduates. (3) First year:
Psychology I, Economics I, Social Hygiene,
Social History, Principles and Practice of Case
Work, Practical Work. Second year: Psycho-
logy 11, Economics II (part course), Social
Legislation and Administration, Social
Psychiatry, Social History, Principles and
Practice of Case Work, Practical Work. (4)
Yes, special courses are arranged for students
wishing to specialise in nursery school, hospi-
tal social work, house-property management,
child guidance, industrial management and
recreation.
* * * *
What is the position regarding taxation of
annuities under Federal legislation ? —287.
Under the Federal Act an annuity under a
will or a deed is taxable as income from which-
ever source the annuity is paid. If the annuity
is paid out of the profits of a business, it is
taxable as income from personal exertion ; if
paid out of proceeds of investments, rents,
interest, dividends, etc., it is taxable as income
from property. If paid out of a mixed fund,
partly income from personal exertion and partly
income from property, it is treated as being
paid rateably out of the income from each
source, and is taxable accordingly. If paid
exclusively from corpus, it is taxable as income
from property. In the case of an annuity
which has been purchased, only that portion
of the annuity which represents interest is tax-
able, the portion representing return of capital
being exempt. Income from property is taxed
at a higher rate than income from personal exer-
tion; moreover, there is still a special impost
on property income.
* * * *
(1) What is the reason for the German per-
secution of the Jews and others ? (2) What
are the Nazis ? (3) Of what descent are Aryans,
Magyars and Nordics ? —9962.
(1) Members of the Jewish race were active
in the Social Democratic and Communist move-
ment and Karl Marx was a Jew. (2) The word
“Nazi” is an abbreviation of Nationalsozialism,
a movement instituted by Hitler in opposition
to the Communists. (3) The word “Aryan” is
used to designate the Indo-European or Indo-
Germanic group of races, the Western branch
of which embraces most of the inhabitants of
Europe; the Nazi ideal of racial purity is the
entire exclusion of non-Aryans from the Ger-
manic race. The Magyars, otherwise Hun-
garians, are generally believed to be descendants
of the Scythians, and to have come from
beyond the Caspian Sea; they first appeared
in Europe about 884. “Nordic” is the term
applied to the Germanic races of Northern
Europe, who are to be found chiefly in Scan-
dinavia, North Germany, northern Scotland
and portions of England; the type is charac-
terised by fair hair, with blue or grey eyes, and
is one of the tallest in the world, being con-
sidered the highest development of the Aryan
stock.
* * * *
Who was Alfred Felton, who made a bequest
to the Melbourne National Gallery ? —249.
He was born at Maldon, Essex, England, on
December 8, 1831, and came to Victoria in
1863. In 1866 he joined F. S. Grimwade in
founding the firm of Felton, Grimwade and
Cos., wholesale druggists and manufacturers, the
partnership lasting for nearly 40 years. He
also acquired much pastoral property. A
bachelor, he died at St. Kilda (Vic.) on January
8, 1904, leaving an estate worth nearly half a
million in trust in equal shares for charities
and for the purchase of works of art, pictures
and sculpture for the Melbourne National Gal-
lery, to which he bequeathed a valuable art
collection and his library.
* H= * *
Is the tomato a fruit or a vegetable ? Are
the tomato and the love-apple the same? Was
the tomato Eve’s forbidden fruit ? —Bl.
The tomato is a fruit—the plant is the vege-
table —and when first introduced into England
was known as the love-apple, on account of
supposed aphrodisiac properties. According
to Mohammedan tradition, the forbidden fruit
was the banana.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the crowns and crown
jewels in the Tower of London ? (2) Where is
the Crown of Scotland kept ? —246.
(1) The Imperial State crown, made in 1838
for Queen Victoria, contains, among other gems
of great value, one of the Star of Africa
diamonds weighing over 309 carats. Other
famous gems contained in the crown are the
Black Prince ruby; the Stuart sapphire, taken
from Charles ll.’s crown, and the sapphire
from Edward the Confessor’s coronation ring.
In addition, there are the Imperial crown, made
for King George for his coronation as King
Emperor at Delhi; the St. Edward’s crown,
worn by King George at his coronation in
London (this was first used by Charles II.);
the State crown of Queen Mary, containing
the Koh-i-noor diamond and another part of
the Star of Africa. Two other queen’s crowns
are the crown and the diadem of Queen
Mary of Modena, the latter being one of the
most costly in the world. (2) In Edinburgh
Castle.
* * * *
(1) Average chemical composition of com-
mercial petrol ? (2) Composition of the
exhaust ? —259.
(1) About 85.25 p.c. carbon and 14.75 p.c.
hydrogen. (2) From the combustion of lib.
of petrol the exhaust consists, by weight, of
3.131 b. carbon dioxide, 1.321 b. water-vapor and
11.551 b. nitrogen. Exhaust composition is
always, however, reckoned by volume, and, as
the water-vapor is condensed to practically zero
volume, it does not directly appear. Hence,
when combustion is just perfect, the exhaust
should consist, by volume, of 14.6 p.c. carbon
dioxide and 85.4 p.c. nitrogen.
* * * *
Nationalities of police in N. S. Wales, and
percentage of nationalities to total strength ?
—279.
Actual strength at December 31, 1934, 3534:
Australian and New Zealand, 3142, or 88.89
p.c. of total strength; English, 202, 5.72 p.c.;
Scotch, 87, 2.46 p.c.; Irish, 79, 2.24 p.c.;
Welsh, 4, 0.113 p.c.; other parts of the British
Empire, 13, 0.368 p.c.; other countries, 7,
0.21 p.c.
* * * *
In the case of a journalist permanently em-
ployed to write for a monthly magazine, who
owns the copyright of his writings for such
magazines ? Can his employers publish his
works later in book form without his permis-
sion ? —262.
In the absence of any agreement to the
contrary, his employer is owner of the copy-
right.
* * * *
What is koumiss ? How prepared, and what
are its properties? —2l2.
Strictly speaking, koumiss is fermented mare’s
milk; the Tartar name is now given to cow’s
milk fermented in similar manner. For pre-
paration, the cow’s milk should he skimmed,
and about 2 p.c. of cane or milk sugar added;
mare’s milk contains less fat but more lactose
than cow’s milk. Mix 4 pints of fresh skimmed
milk, \ pint water, \ pint buttermilk and
loz. loaf-sugar. Place in closed container oi*
bottle for 36 hours, and shake occasionally.
The koumiss is then ready for use; it can often
be retained on an irritable stomach that rejects
other food. Both koumiss and kephir (from
goat’s milk) are effervescent, pleasantly acid
and very digestible drinks.
* * * *
Quantity and value of imports of copper sul-
phate into Australia for the last two years,
and countries of origin ? —276.
1933-34: U.K., 3742 cwt., valued at £3024;
M.L., 2cwt., valued at £3; foreign countries
3cwt., valued at £l3. 1934-35: U.K., 6472 cwt
valued at £5035; M.L., 20cwt., valued at £23 •
foreign countries, lcwt., valued at £l4. Values
are in British currency.
Does Anybody Know?
What circus shows other than Wirth’s
Perry’s, Ashton’s, St. Leon’s and Ivan’s are
now travelling Australia?— 22s.
Brief Answers.
G.H.H.: The N.S.W. Small Debts Act
provides that where default is made in
the payment of any instalment execution
may be had for the whole amount due.
Judgment creditor may apply to the Regis-
trar of the Court to issue a writ of execution
directed to a. bailiff to seize so much of the
debtor’s goods and chattels as on sale will meet
the judgment. There is no right of appeal. Pro-
fessional costs can’t be allowed against debtor.
Where debtor gets over two pounds a week
judgment creditor may obtain a garnishee
order attaching so much as will answer the
judgment... .W.G.: From Wolseley Sheep-
shearing Machine Co., Miller’s Point, Sydney.
C.M.: N.S.W. wages tax is deductible
from wages of £2 or more per week. In
arriving at the wages for wages-tax purposes
keep should be added at the award rate, or, if
no award, at £1 per week. Tax payable
on £2 per week is 6d T.S.: Technological
Museum, Sydney, will send instructions for
skinning, curing and preparing shark hides upon
request A.D.M.: The “Author, Playwright
and Composer,” 11 Gower-street, W.C.l, and
The “Writer,” 32-36 Paternoster-row, E.C. —
both London... .F.F.: Henry Lawson died
September 2, 1922; Livingston Hopkins died
August 21, 1927; William Macleod died June
24, 1929; James Edmond died March 21, 1933;
and S. H. Prior died June 6, 1933....
C.P.: Dreyfuss Art Co., 137 Varick-strect,
New York, N.Y.; Gartnerand Bender, 1104
South Wabash-avenue, Chicago, 111.; P. F.
Vojland Co., Washington and Richard streets,
Joliet, 111.; and the Gibson Art Co., 233
West Fourth-street, Cincinnati, Ohio —all
U.S.A S.J.F.: Hilda Vaughan is Mrs.
Charles Morgah, Dorothy Richardson is Mrs.
Alan Odle, Anne Parkish is Mrs. Charles Cor-
liss, Mary Gaunt is Mrs. Lindsay Miller and
Storm Jameson is Mrs. Guy Chapman....
F.F.: Killanoola is a South Australian abo.
word meaning “a black jay’s nest”... .C.D.:
The result of the British general election last
November was the return of 431 supporters of
the _ Government and 184 opponents. Two
National Abstentionists, who will neither vote
nor receive salaries, are included in the Opposi-
tion total... .J.D.: Summer time in England
starts at “two o’clock on the morning of the day
next following the third Saturday in April (or,
if that day be Easter Day, the day after the
second Saturday in April),” and ends at “two
o’clock on the morning of the day next follow-
ing the first Saturday in October”.. . .S.J.F.:
Beef Cutlet, a greyhound, ran, 500 yards in
28.41sec. in 1932... .D.M.M.: Bloch and
Gerber, Ltd., 46 York-street, Sydney A.T.:
E. A. Smith’s Dental Metallurgy; Hoyt’s
Metallurgy, Vol. II; Hodgen’s Practical Denttil
Metallurgy J.R.: Napier, Gardiner and Co.,
79 Pitt-street, Sydney S.B.S.: Write Fisheries
Branch, Chief Secretary’s Department, Sydney.
A.W.: Cecil Rhodes died on March 26,
1902 G.N.L.: Meaning is a bit ambiguous;
should say that what is meant is that the
vacation commences on February 1
Badilla: You’re wrong; honors score, no mat-
ter whether held by declarer or an opponent.
F.N.: (1) The Manly-to-the-Spit tramline
was opened for traffic on January 9, 1911.
(2) The Sutherland-Cronulla service was dis-
continued as from August 2, 1931 A.W.:
Leon Gellert’s published books are Songs of
a Campaign (1917) and Isle of San (1919)....
F. : The Townsville “Daily Bulletin” and
“Evening Star” are both published at Towns-
ville... .I.J.: It has been computed that the
number of men killed totalled 7,781,806, the
Allied figures being given as 4,869,478. The
total number of wounded was approximately
18,681,000: Allied, 11,075,715... .J.H.: Coin is
an English eighteenth-century tradesman’s token,
issued by Michael Apsey at Bury St. Edmunds.
It is quite common, and a specimen in good
condition is worth 6d. Specimen submitted
is so worn as to have no collector value....
F.B.: The periods of architecture required are:
Tudor, 1485-1558; Elizabethan, 1558-1603;
Jacobean, 1603-1625; Stuart, 1625-1702; Queen
Anne and Georgian, 1702-1830 S.M.: Drey-
fus died in France on July 12, 1935, aged 75....
A.M.L.: Hong Kong is an island about 11
miles long and from two to five miles broad.
It was first occupied by Great Britain in Janu-
ary, 1841, and was formally ceded by the
Treaty of Nankin in 1842 T.N.: H.R.H.
Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence, eldest
son of King Edward VII., was born Jan. 8,
1864, and died Jan. 14, 1892 K.D.: The
most recent six winners of the English Derby
were: 1930, H.H. Aga Khan’s Blenheim;
1931, J. A. Dewar’s Cameronian; 1932, T.
Walls’s April the Fifth; 1933, Lord Derby’s
Hyperion; 1934, Maharajah of Rajpipla’s
Windsor Lad; 1935, H.H. Aga Khan’s Bahram.
J.L.: The Eleventh Olympic Games will
be contested at Berlin from August 4 to 15,
1936... .H.S.: (1) Boys are allowed to sit for
the examination for entry to the college only
in the year in which their thirteenth birthday
falls. (2) Yes. (3) The cost of upkeep of
cadet midshipmen while at the college is borne
by the Government. (4) Full particulars may
be obtained from the Secretary, Navy Office,
Department of Defence, Melbourne
C.G.B.: No H.B.M.: (1) Invoice value,
£20; exchange, £5; sales tax, £1 6s. 5d.; cus-
toms duties, nil; freight, depending upon size,
say, £1; clearing charges, say, 10s.; insurance,
5s. —total, £28 Is. 5d. (2) Invoice value,
£21 5s.; exchange, £5 6s. 3d.; sales tax, £1
8s. Id.; customs duties, nil ; freight, say, £1;
clearing charges, say, 10s.; insurance, 5s.—
total, £29 14s. 4d. It is assumed that both items
are packed together E.D.H.: No exact
specific for catarrh; treatment is dependent
upon cause in all cases. Where an inherited
malformation aggravates the trouble, surgical
correction is necessary S.R.C.: Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet 2860,
“Damage by Field Mice and Measures to
Prevent It” W.I.B.: Regulations under the
Quarantine Act prohibit the introduction of
cats into Australia from Asiatic countries
H.B.M. (Rose Bay): Obtainable from McKinlay
Fletcher, Ltd., 277 Clarence-street, Sydney
P.F.: C. Bannerman was the first Australian to
score a century in a Test v. England (165
retired at Melbourne, March, 1877); first Aus-
tralian to make a century in England (v.
Leicester in 1878); first Australian to score a
century in Canada (125 at Montreal, 1878);
first Australian to knock a century in Maori-
land (125 at Invercargill) E.D.: The war
service pension would not be regarded as income
for endowment purposes. If the widow is
qualified in all other respects, she would be
entitled to receive endowment on behalf of
her children R.N.: Cannot trace reference.
Vic. Health Dept, has no knowledge of its
use for the purpose mentioned,.. .(Many others
mailed.)


THE FORD V-8 FOR 1936
’iiiiil
V
i'ss
sbs
m
m
SAFETY GLASS ALL ROUND + *♦ ALL-STEEL
CLOSED BODIES * * *i SUPER SAFETY BRAKES
FORD V-8 for 1936 is the car which
1936 conditions demand. Every refine-
ment is dictated by logical progress. Safety,
for instance, is not just an unsupported
claim—it is built into the design of Ford
V-8 for 1936. The greatest list of safety
features ever assembled in one car: Safety
Glass in windscreen and all windows . . .
Welded all-steel closed bodies . . . Super
safety mechanical brakes. Safety glass all
round is the outstanding advance of modern
motoring. No car without this feature can
be considered safe under today’s traffic
conditions.
Ford V-8 closed bodies are of genuine all-
steel construction, recognised as the world’s
finest, safest, quietest body design.
THE FINEST CAR EVER BUILT BY
FORD. The V-8 engine of which more
than 2,000,000 have . been built by Ford,
and without which no car can be truly
modern, gives an' entirely new meaning to
power and acceleration in car performance.
Many other refinements in convenience and
comfort are evident: Steering is made easier
by a new steering gear ratio. Gear, changing
is even smoother and quicker; all speeds,
FOR 10 3 G
including reverse, have silent helical gears.
The clear. vision ventilation system has
been improyed by the addition of sedan
quarter windows of pivoting; type. Interiors
are luxuriously finished with deep, restful
upholstery and beautiful modern fittings.
The already famous Ford Centre-Poise ride
has been further improved by the use of
larger, more effective front shock absorbers
J —making Ford V-8 the most comfortable
car you ‘have ever driven or ridden in.
THRILLING V-8 PERFORMANCE. This
is a car you can drive all day in city or
country without strain. Steady, holds the
road, responds instantly to the driver’s
touch. It really is a great car in every way
this Ford V-8 for 1936 —the finest, safest,
most dependable car ever built by Ford. It
is now being displayed by all Ford dealers—
arrange to take one of the splendid new models
out on. the road to test in your own way.
A BRI TIS H E M P I R E P ROD UCT
FORD
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer
’ "7 '~ ' -j - ' • - : •
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED [_N y_!_C_LQJLLAI.
F36.48.V
A MIXED GRILL.
British Communists have been cock-a-
hoop since they got one whole member
elected to -the Commons, and, urged on
by their Moscow bosses (the : “Pravda”
announced that the revolution was now
in sight), they, made another demand on
the Labor party for '“affiliation.” It
caught the Labor heads in a lucid inter-
val, and was frigidly refused. In Britain,
as in Australia, the cry of the Reds is
that there should be “a united front
against Fascism.” Said British Labor:
True, Fascism has conquered various
European States, but our executive is of
opinion that the Fascist dictatorships were
in part facilitated by preceding campaigns
for Communist dictatorships.
The opinion is shared by the rest of the
world that isn’t Red.
* # * *
In 1930 the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment exclaimed dolefully that motor-
cars had increased from 28,000 in 1921
to 155,000 in 1928-29, and were costing
it 15,500,000 passengers a year and
£1,000,000 in revenue —which, by the
way, had increased from £6,334,000 in
1921 to £7,851,000 in 1928. There are
now 228,000 motor-cars in N.S.W., but
Mr. Hartigan is able to rejoice that the
number of passenger journeys last year
was “160,211,508, a new record... .the
previous peak was 1928-29, when
151,116,000 passenger journeys were
made.” The Hartigan who was railway
accountant in 1930 and the Hartigan who
is now Commissioner should collaborate
to revise the meanings of “consistency!’
and “logic.”
* * * * ;
“M.G.”: Among the remarkable statis-
tical anomalies revealed by official Com-
monwealth figures is the contrast between
N. S. Wales and Victoria regarding pen-
sions. For each 10,000 of population,
N.S.W. has 281 old-age pensioners, Vic-
toria 315. On the other hand, N.S.W.,
which is shown by other statistics to be
just as healthy a place as Victoria, has
134 invalid pensioners, Victoria 94. The
actual number of invalid-pensioners in
the- Mother- State is almost double-the
Victorian total.
**l \ *
“Kiwi”: To queer thefts (B. 22/1 /’36)
add the experience of; a-M.L.,householder
who had an entire hedge pinched. It ■ was
of golden, privet, „an eminently - saleable
shrub, and ha~d grown to'about four feet
in height, when the amazed owner looked
out one morning to find nothing but a
deep trench where the . bushes- had been
. growing. .-The removal 'had been carried
1 out well; and carefully, and,
without undue, haste, with the family
. sleeping within twenty feet of the scene
of operations. The track of a lorry told
how the trees were finally withdrawn
from the neighborhood.
* * * *
Archie McDougall, recently appointed
legal adviser to the Iraq Foreign
Ministry, is a Melbourne man who is
professor of international law at the
Bagdad Law School. Tasmanian Rhodes
'Scholar in 1924, he was at Balliol Col-
lege, Oxford, and became lecturer in law
at Victoria Uni., Manchester. His dad,
Professor D. G. McDougall, of the law
school of the Tas. Uni., had a brilliant
career. The McDougalls are of the
Sarids and McDougall clan, among Aus-
tralia’s best-known printers.
* * *
From' a constituent:
Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R. (B. 29/11/’35),
has become a man without a political country.
Labor .has expelled him because he refuses to
get out of the Council Against War, asserting
that it .is associated with the Communists.
But the Communists wouldn’t have Blackburn
if he wished to join them, because he has
no use for their brand of revolution. Black-
burn has a big following among Laborites, and
recission of the motion putting him outside
the party may be forced. Labor has done
many foolish things of late years, and the loss
of such a man as Blackburn is not to be
regarded lightly.


FOR CAULFIELD.
Salisbury Welter: St. Fervent;
next, Somerset.
Oakleigh Plate: Heritor, 1 ;
Arachne, 2 ; Closing Time, 3.
St. George Stakes: Palfresco;
next, Young Idea.
Bond Handicap: Heroic Prince ;
next, Viceroy.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Cid; next,
Questionnaire or Moaenza.
Canterbury Handicap: Dulcedo ;
next, Jovial Son.
Highweight Handicap: Falstaff ;
next, Moaenza or Goorka.
Ashbury Handicap: King Gee ;
next, Babili.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the Williamstown Stakes, for which
the club of that name put up £l5OO,
Sylvandale (3 to 1) and Marabou (6 to 4)
had to strike their colors to the Queens-
land-bred Bustard (8 to 1), whose best
previous performance was his third to
Garrio and Panto in the Williamstown
Cup. Conditions of the contest were
unusual, only three- and four-year-olds
being allowed to compete. Practically
the weight-for-age scale was observed,
but there were penalties and allowances.
Sylvandale carried 101 b. more than his
scale impost; Cardinal was penalised
51b.; Marabou and Bustard were in at
bare weight-for-age.
Miss “Lorna Doone” went across from
Sydney to see Sylvandale run, Fred Wil-
liams saddled him up and Darby Munro
rode him. Maurice McCarten was “im-
ported” to take the mount on Marabou.
In a measure this was a knock in the eye
for local jockeys ; but it left Voitre free
for Bustard, and he had the satisfaction of
landing the spoils. Voitre’s generalship
had a lot to do with J. S. Feehan, of the
V.R.C. committee, registering one of his
most important successes as an owner
of gallopers. Feehan won the Grand
National Steeplechase twice with Moun-
tain God, but he has not had the best
of luck on the flat, apart from capturing
the St. Leger at Flemington and Rand-
wick in 1932 with Middle Watch.
Voitre kept Bustard snugly behind the
pacemaker, Cardinal, until the time
arrived for action in earnest. Munro,
whose mount drew the outside berth,
covered some extra ground, but not
so much as Marabou, who swept
from the rear of the field to swing wide
at the home turn, where Cardinal, Sylvan-
dale and Bustard were in advance of
him. Cardinal tired, and Bustard joined
issue with Sylvandale. Swerving inwards
from the whip, Marabou collided with
Bustard ; but, whereas the colt suffered
little, Marabou was unbalanced, and pal-
pably lost ground. A ding-dong but not
entirely satisfactory finish ended in Bus-
tard beating Sylvandale by a neck, with
Marabou half a length farther off.
Jack Holt formed the impression that
Marabou needs plenty of galloping room,
and that Flemington will suit him far
better than Williamstown, where the
straight is comparatively short. Still, it
is difficult to visualise Marabou beating
Sylvandale at standard weight-for-age.
From Holt’s point of view the autumn
outlook is not hopeful. Hall Mark has
been causing him a lot of anxiety, and
does not appear able to throw olf the
soreness that he developed a few weeks
ago. Lou Robertson, who had Marabou
until C. B. Kellow bought the stallion
at auction for 5500 guineas, is also hav-
ing his troubles. Feldspar is unlikely to
run at Flemington, where A. T. Creswick
will depend on Ismarus in the Leger.
Ismarus holds an Australian Cup engage-
ment as well.
Divisions of the Maiden Handicap
went to Bas Rhin (6 to 1) and Frill
Prince (6 to 1), each of whom was ridden
by J. O’Brien, the jockey that was asso-
ciated with the Standish Handicap and
Newmarket victories of Waltzing Lily
three years ago. Ashley Reed cleverly
captured the juvenile event on Night of
Love (3 to 1), who may have been lucky,
as Boongarry (third) lost ground at the
home turn. B. Crocker, the former S.A.
trainer, dealt punters a body blow by
annexing the February Trial with Cir-
cueo, a 25-to-l shot.
Cotys (3 to 1), who is by Thracian, the
sire of Feldspar and Ismarus, landed the
Wyndham Handicap for A. T. Creswick.
This three-year-old may develop into a
really good one, as he scored from an
apparently hopeless position at the
straight entrance, Keith Voitre excelling
by the vigor of his riding.
Williamstown running threw very little
light on Newmarket Handicap prospects,
except that Young Idea came from the
clouds to run third in the Marine Handi-
cap. First and second places were filled
by two outsiders, Belle Silhouette (20 to
1) and Quasimodo (25 to 1) ; Young Idea,
who had not raced since he fell and sus-
tained injury in the Victoria Derby, met
with moderate support at 10 to 1. An-
other 50 yards and he would have won.
The 5-to-2 favorite Phenomenon led the
field for over half a mile, and then ruined
his chance by attempting to hang out.
Ogwell, the second choice of backers, fol-
lowed the example of Phenomenon.
These occurrences enabled Belle Sil-
houette to slip through on the rails and
carry the little apprentice, Albert Bennett,
to his first metropolitan victory. Bennett
is a pupil of Ronald Cameron, who won
the Melbourne Cup of 1911 on The
Parisian.
Belle Silhouette was not nominated for
the Newmarket, in which Quasimodo has
6st. 131 b. and Young Idea Bst. 91b.
Valiant Chief, who is of the same age
as Young Idea and will have to carry
21b. more in the “straight six” classic,
shaped poorly in the Marine Handicap,
but he may have encountered trouble in
the rain, which fell steadily towards the
end of the afternoon.
* * * *
The V.A.T.C. autumn meeting begins
at Caulfield on Saturday, when the Oak-
leigh Plate is set down for decision.
Arachne (9st. 71b.) won it last year in
wonderful fashion, and if sent to the post
she may do the trick again; but the
stable has its eye fixed on the New-
market. Heritor (7st. 41b.) has an im-
mense pull in weight and should be hard
to beat. Others who should figure in the
finish are Closing Time, Great Legend
and Studio.
* * * *
There is no longer any disposition in
Sydney to sneer at Queensland form.
Topweight with King’s Head in the Chal-
lenge Stakes, Regular Bachelor finished
well ahead of that horse. With the
same 9st. 41b. in the Flying Handicap
at Rosehill, Regular Bachelor landed sub-
stantial wagers at twos and 7 to 4. He got
an opening on the rails at the turn, where
Treasury and Moonray shifted out. Tan-
wan dashed the Queenslander through,
but, thinking it was all over, he took a
pull, and Moonray ran his mount to a
head. Perhaps Regular Bachelor loafed,
as is the way of many good horses, when
he hit the front. He’s booked for Mel-
bourne and the Futurity and the New-
market.
Perhaps Tanwan would have ridden a
double if he had escaped misfortune on
Dulcedo in the Rosehill Handicap. But,
as the stewards put it, “at the jump-out
one of his spurs caught Cherry King’s
gear, and as a result he was nearly un-
seated” ; then “he was disappointed in
the straight when going for a run on
the rails.” It was a very rough race, and
over the last furlong the field was
bunched so peculiarly that Dulcedo,
Journal, Celebrate and others could not
stretch out. El Senorita (12 to 1) had a
clear run on the outside, and it enabled
her to scrape home from two other out-
siders. Journal was fourth and Dulcedo
fifth; Cherry King, after making most
of the pace, stopped to nothing.
El Senorita is trained at Rosehill. In
a middle-distance handicap on the same
course last year she beat Turbulent and
Gladswood ; and she was at long odds on
that occasion, too.
Mark Antony (7 to 2), carrying the
colors of W. J. Smith and “Mr. Con-
stable,” came to light as a promising son
of Brazen in the first division of the
Nursery. Mary Ann and Rob Roy—a
half-brother to Quarto and Homer —fol-
lowed him home ; Rob Roy is trained
by Ike Foulsham and looks an early
winner. The favorite, Home Thrust, a
Spearhead filly, was fourth ; she will do
better with racing. Capaneus (3 to 1),
raced by Mrs. R. A. McLean, won the
second division like a good colt. It was
his first race, and he ran greenly, but
he flashed up in time to beat Wyoming
and Drouthy. He is by Night Raid —
Sennight.
King . Roger (10 to 1) outstayed the
opposition in the Maiden Handicap, dis-
posing first of Heracles, then of Trekster
and Hands Up. He is trained by former
jockey Frank Bastable at Canterbury,
and was turned out in capital trim.
Heroic Faith is becoming costly to
backers. Conditions of the Trial Stakes
gave him a decided advantage in weight,
but he dropped out well beaten three
furlongs from home. Pavarti (3 to 1)
flew up the straight, to snatch victory
from Hammerhead and the pacemaker
Belgravia. Pavarti (Moabite —Pereskia)
was bought by Rosehill trainer Booth as
a yearling for 80 guineas. She has by no
means reached the end of her tether.
Knox had to ride Mananui (6 to 1)
hard in the Carlingford Mile. The
Limond —Rose Queen horse (he is owned
by Sydney businessman W. C. Douglas,
who raced Claro), was not among the
first half-dozen at the top of the straight;
he put in a good finish, and beat Pasha
and Autoland right on the post. King
Moab, always prominent, was fourth, and
the favorite, Lone Raider, who had to be
checked on the rails, was fifth. Mananui
has now won three races. Staying seems
to be his forte.
* * * *
Marabou and Feldspar are out of the
Australian Cup—Feldspar because of a
swollen pastern, Marabou apparently
because his new owner never seriously
intended to start him. C. B. Kellow was
naturally interested to learn what weight
his horse might get for the next Mel-
bourne Cup—allowing for the fact that
he will be a year older —and now he has
a pretty good idea. Marabou has been
nominated for the Sydney Cup. But he
won’t be coupled in doubles, except by
the rash, until announced as a likely
starter.
* * *
Heroic Prince had Bst. 51b. when he
won the Australian Cup two years ago,
and he beat a good horse in Peter Jack-
son, from whom he was receiving 41b.
He now has only 7st. 131 b. In the mean-
time he failed on the flat, but he has
taken kindly to hurdling, and a horse
that does that is very apt to return to
his flat-racing form. Certainly Heroic
Prince is rising eight, but age is no dis-
advantage over a long journey in the case
of a hardy customer like the Heroic geld-
ing. Neither is experience over the bat-
tens. Marmont was “aged” when he won
the Grand National and Australian
Hurdle races in 1903, and he won
the Australian Cup in 1904. Other
“aged” Australian Cup winners were
Woodman (1865 and 1866), Shenan-
doah (1868), Nimblefoot (1871), Sala-
din (“after two dead-heats with Fly-
ing Dutchman,” 1872), Warrior (1873),
Columbus (1880), Lochiel (1889), Dream-
land (1901), Blue Metal (1902), Defence
(1918) and New Tipperary (1919). And
Jackstaff beat all but Accarak in 1924,
going on to win the Grand National
Hurdle in the same year.
* * * *
J. W. Cook took Heritor, Viceroy
and the hurdler Slinger to Melbourne at
the week-end. Unfortunately, Viceroy
was not nominated for the Australian
Cup, not having shown staying form
when entries closed. He may, however,
pick up a minor race. And, although
Heritor won’t have much time to get
used to galloping from left to right, he
is not a candidate to be despised in either
the Oakleigh Plate, with 7st. 41b., or the
Newmarket, with 6st. 131 b.
* * * *
Newcastle Jockey Club, which an-
nounced at the end of last year that it
was going out of the horseracing busi-
ness, reports a loss of £3643 on horse-
racing for that year, which succeeded
losses of £2892 in 1934 and £1489 in
1933. Golf and tin-hare activities re-
duced the 1935 deficit by £1250 or so.
They of course, are to be continued.
Horses were going cheap at J. J.
Leahy’s sale at Bathurst. Imported Air
Balloon (Stedfast —Highness), sire of
many winners, was knocked down for
70 guineas, and the auctioneer could not
get a bid for Silverado or Leighton, also
imported. Of 36 brood mares, some with
foals at foot, and nearly all served by
one or other of the station sires, only
four attracted double-figure bids. The
breeder let one matron go at five guineas
and another at guineas, and took 40
guineas for a mare like All Wheat (Buck-
wheat —Red Wheat), “with filly foal by
Air Balloon and served by him again.”
For Sarcherie’s dam Sarkara (Buckwheat
—Stephanos) nobody would go beyond
110 guineas. Naturally Leahy would not
sell at that price.
These prices, and others given in Syd-
ney for horses in training—42s guineas
for Medallist, 210 guineas for Topical,
200 guineas for Le Touquet, 170 guineas
for Deputy Ruler and 120 guineas for
Watson —reflect the condition of the
sport in N.S.W. There has been very
little recovery. As a racing centre Syd-
ney is now a bad second to Melbourne,
and unless radical changes are made it
is never likely to catch up. The Sydney
Government is very largely to blame, it
is still taking 3s. 4d. of the 14s. 4d. a
man pays to enter the paddock at Rand-
wick, and 9 p.c. from every tote pool.
And boom-time prices are still charged
for other services partly under the con-
trol of clubs. Tramway fares to and
from the city to Randwick racecourse are
double the daily tariff; railway fares
to the various courses show almost the
same increase; a shilling is demanded
for an official book (though an equiva-
lent of the old 6d. card is sold
without authority), and Is. 6d. for
a cup of tea and cake or scones which
would be dear at Is. There are too many
companies exploiting racing and giving
ridiculously ( small prize-money, too
much leasing of racehorses, too little con-
sideration for the public in respect of
the unit of speculation on the tote (ss.
is enough in the paddock), the retention
of fractions and the delay in introducing
tote doubles. There are other counts in
the indictment, but these will do to go
on with.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Dead at the Fulham Park
(S.A.) stud, the veteran sire St. Spasa.
Son of St. Amant, an English Derby
winner, he was sold to Australia, just
before the war, and, trained by William
Kelso, won the A.J.C. Metropolitan of
1914 in the colors of Robinson and
Clark. He also won an Adelaide Cup,
and was third in a Melbourne Cup. As
a sire at Fulham Park he was a great
success.
* * * *
“Eff-Gee”: The usual crowd was
gathered round the pub wireless, an
instrument which had obviously seen its
best days. “Galloping Jack leads into
the straight a length in front of Tortoise,
with Golden Crock third,” came the an-
nouncement, only to be immediately
smothered by static. No other coherent
word was heard until the race was over;
then to the consternation of listeners
it was found that Galloping Jack, the
favorite, had been unplaced. “A decent
sort of wireless,” commented one punter
bitterly, “and the cow would have walked
in!”
Ins and Outs
The Tarrantulas, without Oxenham,
lost their match against All-India at
Madras by 33 runs. Scoring was small,
none of the four innings reaching 200.
The hero of the match was Nissar, who
took 11-97.
* * * *
“Staffs”: Oldfield’s 132 against Griqua-
land West at Kimberley—he hit two
sixes—gives him a three-figure score in
every country he has played in: England,
Australia, South Africa and Malaya.
The English innings was against War-
wickshire with Collins’s 1921 team ; Aus-
tralian centuries include 129 in Shef-
field games, but Oldfield has yet to tick
off three figures in a Test. His chance
may come in the next tussle with South
Africa, which starts at Jo’burg this week-
end.
(Continued on next page.)
North Queensland can claim a real
champion in Max Grosskreutz, the speed-
way rider. In the final of the World’s
Derby, at Sydney Showground, Gross-
kreutz cut the world’s record for a mile
on a three-lap track to 59sec. He is
having a wonderful season.
* * * *
The irrepressible Australian was there
when the winter section of the Olympic
Games was opened by Hitler —he is a
member of the British bob-sleigh team ;
name, F. J. McEvoy. A Jew, Rudi
Ball, represented Germany in the ice-
hockey.
;jj * * *
Reputations crashed at the N.S.W.
rowing championships on the Nepean.
Police won the eights easily from Mos-
man by four lengths, while Cecil Pearce
(13st. 61b.), cousin of the famous Bobby,
pushed the holder, Turner (list.), out of
the sculling championship. In the light-
weight events, Mosman won the fours
and Toomey the sculls. Pearce and the
Police crew should be sent to the Berlin
Olympiad.


M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Van Klaveren (lOst. 91b.), with a
couple of superfluous pounds off his girth,
stripped better for his return open-air
battle with Jack Carroll (lOst. 81b.) at
Sydney Sports Ground. But he suffered
a worse doing, and referee Harald Baker
asked him at the end of the thirteenth
round if he hadn’t had a fair issue. Van
Klaveren elected to see it out. He’s a
game fellow, apart from which it’s some
tribute to his remaining ability that in
both encounters Carroll has been made
to fight better and harder than ever
before.
Carroll doesn’t appear to have a clear
knockout punch; his method is to chop
his opponent into futility. For a fairly
big man he is extraordinarily fast. He
combines weight and a beautful upright
poise with the swiftness of a clever
bantam. Short of a knockout—and his
speed and a fine arm and peculiar
shoulder guard make that extremely dif-
ficult —a mere good game fighter like
Van Klaveren hasn’t an earthly with him.
After their first scrap—fought in the rain
on Boxing Night—the slippery surface
was blamed for the Dutchman’s showing.
Logically, it was Carroll who was more
handicapped. He is a sturdy enough
fighter, but much more a classy boxer,
and speed is the essence of his scrapping.
In the first go he solidly outfought the
Dutchman ; last Thursday j on the good
going, he obliterated him. A fairly large
crowd passed eloquent comment on the
massacre by watching it in silence.
Alf Blatch (9st. 7Jlb.), who collared
the lightweight championship from Herb
Bishop (9st. Bilb.) on Boxing Night, had
no trouble retaining the title in a pure
slogging match in which he happened to
slog a lot harder than Bishop. Down for
nine to a swing in the first round, Bishop
Bert'."l ca.nt get the racimg Hews,
it's mot WORKING , vv
Gert; "Have you beeM tinkering.
\Nitw it 7r "
BUT its Just Some simple
LITTLE THINS THA.TS DOME IT *
CaERT.' "Oh , IT you THEM'?*
was down again for nine and for six in
the third and for eight in the fourth.
When he went down again in the fifth,
the ref. sensibly called it a night.
There was to be a third scrap between
Tod Morgan and Jimmy Purcell, but
Morgan, suffering an arm injury, appears
to have finished with the game ; he men-
tions selling an avocado pear farm in
California and settling in Sydney. In
their place Joe Hall (9st. 4Jlb.) out-
pointed Billy Carr (9st. lylb.).
* * * ■ *
“General Prac.”: A sporting doctor
points out that, though the condition
called “punch-drunk” has been known
among the Fancy since the days of
Jem Burke and Tom Cribb, yet the some-
what conservative medical profession has
only taken note of it since 1928. The
typical “punch-drunk” is' often a heavy-
footed, thick-headecj fighter who barges
straight in and takes all that comes his
way. Hence, in time, come scat-
tered brain lesions due to minute
haemorrhages. The victims speak in a
slow, slurring way, become shaky on
their pins, and some of them end up in
mental hospitals. I recall one good ex-
pug who used habitually to lose him-
self, and another who staggered so in his
gait that he was accused (quite wrongly)
of habitual intemperance. A third, leav-
ing the ring, secured a job as a barman.
When the “all-out” bell rang at 6 p.m.
he would sail madly into the nearest
customer of the pub, and had to be
dragged off almost nightly—while the
job lasted. No wonder Gene Tunney
described prize-fighting as a dangerous
occupation.
Ins and Outs
Australia beat Griqualand West at
Kimberley by an innings and 105. After
the locals had made 198 in their first
knock the tourists replied with 423 for 6
(O’Brien 113 and Oldfield 132). O’Reilly
had another feast of wickets in the
Griqualanders’ second try, taking 6-54 in
an innings of 120. The Afrikander hero
of the match was Helfrich, 16 years old,
who again smote O’Reilly to all points
of the compass and notched 59. The
Australians should be pretty train-weary
after their long run to Bulawayo and
back, and this may give the Afrikanders
a chance to get them on the wrong foot
in the fourth Test at Jo’burg.
* * * *
The Tarrantulas, thanks to Oxenham
and Leather, pulled what seemed a hope-
lessly lost match with Madras out of the
fire—won by a wicket and two runs.
Madras made 142 and 165, Oxenham tak-
ing 6-52, and bringing his total of
wickets in Hind to 96. The Australians
played a miserable first shot for 47,
Gopalan snaring 6-56. In the second,
things looked pretty sick with half the
side out for less than half the 260 wanted
to win. Hendry (49), Macartney (39),
Oxenham (34 n. 0.) and Leather (46) saved
the day, a last-wicket stand producing 70
runs. Gopalan again bowled finely, 5-62.
* * * *
“Huzoor”: My apologies to Frank
Tarrant for my mistaken criticism of him-
self and his cricketers in Bombay (B.
5/2/’36). The facts he gives re the Yacht'
Club and the Maharajah of Patiala were
not cabled here ; they alter the situation.
As to Sir Thomas Lipton and the same
club, my version, current soon after the
affair occurred, was that S’Thomas was
told that, as an honorary member —that
was his status, the Yacht Club, like
others, not being in the habit of admit-
ting a new arrival to full membership at
once —he could not introduce strangers.
The other party in the story, as I know
it, was not “Ranji,” but a Parsee mer-
chant with whom Lipton was doing a
deal in tea. I cannot believe that a man
in “Ranji’s” position and of his standing
in the community could be ignorant of
the club’s rule, one common to many
European clubs in India.
After a dragging, wearisome match,
from which the public stayed away with
enthusiasm, Victoria defeated Queens-
land at Brisbane by 252 runs on the first
innings, and, with a little more enter-
prise, would have won outright. The
one bright spot was a masterly 193 by
Tallon in Queensland’s second innings—
one of the best displays ever seen on the
ground. The Bananalanders scratched
together a colorless 194 in their first try,
and Victoria contributed an equally
colorless 446 (Scaife 99, Lee 95 and Plant
67). Gilbert took 5-109. In again, the
home side took inspiration from Tallon’s
splendid innings, and closed with 6 for
478, Hansen helping with 72. The Vies,
pottered along in their second shot, and
the safety-first innings ended with 2 for
179 (Rigg 78 n. 0.) when time closed it. It
was distinctly Tallori’s match ; the ’keeper
took five wickets in Victoria’s first
innings in addition to scoring 24 and 193.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: The Maryleboners
have been arousing criticism in M.L. A
storm soaked their cricketing flannels,
which had been left overnight in the
pavilion at Manawatu. The Britons re-
fused to have them just dried, but de-
manded they should be washed first. As
this was impossible in the time at dis-
posal, the match was abandoned. It is
the first time writer ever heard of tour-
ing cricketers with only one suit of flan-
nels to their name. Even the humble
wages man who plays grade cricket in
places like Sydney has at least a reserve
outfit. With touring teams playing
matches over several days at least three
are imperative.
* * * *
“St. John’s”: If anyone would like a
soft job at £750 a year, with a house
thrown in, he can apply for the secre-
taryship of the Marylebone C.C. Time
was when such an appointment was the
accolade for a man who had done well
in the cause of cricket, but the increase
in the visits of “colonial” teams and
other savages from the outer Empire has
rubbed a lot of the gilt off the ginger-
bread. Also taxes, rates, etc., have made
£750 p.a. look like the change for three-
pence. The secretary must be a member
of the M.C.C., too. Applications are
hanging fire.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Bo”: The Australian professionals are
on their way back from their tour of the
U.S.A. They did as well as could be
expected of unacclimatised lads playing
on difficult courses, using a heavier ball
and stacked up against the world’s best
players. The international match for The
Lakes Cup they lost —games to 1| —
but the crack British team fared little
better in the Ryder Cup match. M. L.
Kelly did wonderfully well in upsetting
American open champion Parks 6
and 5, while George Naismith squared
with Paul Runyan. The Americans won
all three foursome matches. Financially
the tour was a failure, though doubtless
it will yield rich experience and will be
to the ultimate good of Australian golf.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: W. I. Hunter, who won
the Catalina (U.S.A.) golf tournament in
which our Australians were engaged,
began his golf life in Britain, winning the
amateur championship at Hoylake as
long ago as 1921. In America the same
year he knocked Bobby Jones out of the
Yankee amateur event, but was beaten
in the semi-final by Gardiner, the ulti-
mate runner-up. 'Turning professional,
Hunter has been in the forefront of the
Americans for years, though his British
birth has barred him from Ryder Cup
teams.
* * H= *
“Set ’Em Up”: Casino (N.S.W.) is the
latest golf club to follow the new rule
rewarding a player who has holed in one
with a trophy, a bob a head being levied
on all other members on the course to
pay for it. But the hero is not to get off
scot-free. He will be expected to shout,
but not to greater value than the cost
of a bottle of “high-grade whisky.” The
Casinites are taking no risks.
* * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: An agreeable varia-
tion on the ball-stealing crow has been
reported from Queensland. Playing on
Willowburn, which is close to the Too-
woomba mental hospital, a golfer had
the unusual experience of seeing his ball
picked up and swallowed by one of the
patients. Latter was operated on and
the ball recovered, a consideration these
hard times. What rule covers the situa-
tion may yet have to be decided by St.
Andra’s.
* * * *
Brigadier-General Herring has resigned
the .secretaryship of the N.S.W. Club,
which he has held for five years, to take
a holiday trip to Europe, where he will
follow Jim Ferrier’s fortunes. He was
practically the founder of the club, now
one of the finest in the State, for it was
he who secured an option over the lapd
and formed the syndicate from which the
club grew. He was one of the original
committeemen, and did much good
work in this capacity before becoming
secretary.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Tommy Howard is
going to Royal Fremantle. Howard has
won most of the Australian State cham-
pionships, in addition to the national title,
and was one of the founders and keenest
workers of the P.G.A., which owes much
to his energy and devotion. He is a
green and course expert as well as a
leading player, and Fremantle members
should have reason to congratulate them-
selves on their new professional.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Diggers are reminded that
this year’s A.I.F. competition will kick
off on Manly course on March 4, entries
closing February 25. To expedite
matters, competitors will be started both
from the first, and tenth tees, and extra
fore-caddies will be on duty to locate
what the programme calls “wayward
shots.”
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: There has been mild
argument among Sydney golfers as to the
difference between a “links” and a
“course.” A Sydney expert settles the
question to his own satisfaction by
saying that a links is a course
by the sea and a course an inland
area for playing golf. In the Scottish
language “links” is sand-dune country
on the sea coast. The fact that the
land is worthless for any other purpose
has caused the frugal Scot to build his
golf courses in such areas wherever pos-
sible. A good example of the old use
of the word is seen in Stevenson’s story
“The Pavilion on the Links.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Crawfqrd is about to make
his seventh trip overseas with a Davis
Cup team. Quist and McGrath have gone
three times, but this will be their first
experience of the American zone. A win
in the American zone will mean the
whole team crossing to England. In any
case, Crawford, Quist and Sproule will
go to Wimbledon to defend the doubles
title won last year by Australia. McGrath
has asked that he be allowed to return
to Australia if the team loses in America.
One item on the programme is new: the
team will be assembled at Melbourne for
a month before sailing for a course of
extensive training. Crawford will be
skipper, and will do the selecting with
Sproule.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Davis Cup
manager Sproule is letting his mob know
what to expect early. If they don’t do
just what he tells ’em he will leave them
on the beach. That sounds rather
drastic for tennis-players, as well as hard
of accomplishment—it would be difficult
to get away from three or four deter-
mined players and their entourage. Better
far to take a featherduster and give any
offender a slap or two on the wrist with
it if the necessity arises.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Mutilated cables have
caused a bit of a mix this end over the
American zone draw. Mexico, at first
reported as an absentee, is now in, and
the draw gives Australia the match with
Cuba, while U.S.A. deals with the Mexi-
cans. The Australians will try hard to
get the Cuban game played on American
soil. Their experiences in Cuba in 1932
were not pleasant.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: It has been sensibly sug-
gested that if the Davis Cup team is
beaten in America it should return by
way of Japan, and pay the return visit
this country has so discourteously
allowed to stand over for years. Unfor-
tunately the decision to send most of the
team to Wimbledon, whatever its fate in
the U.S.A., will prevent that. When
Harada was here in 1932 with his mates
a return visit' by a first-class team was
promised. Later a second-rate combina-
tion was offered. Since then the Aus-
tralian tennis heads have been dodging
the issue whenever it crops up. Trips
like this would improve the quality of
our tennis, which has suffered because
the best players take part in all sorts of
third-rate tourneys against fifth-rate
players on all sorts of courts in different
parts of the States. Meeting inferior
opposition always pulls a player’s stan-
dard down.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Ted Hampson followed
on his 220 win in the Dunn Shield sports
(B. 5/2/’36) in Sydney by running the
100 in 9 4-ssec. He was made to put his
best foot foremost by the second man,
Moran, and if he had been pressed as
hard, in the 220 he would certainly have
cracked “evens.” Carlton’s 9 3-ssec. still


i:®*:
lyisi
Ural
lm
mm-
m
*H3f
OftitaCt O w*LtS
r
LADY MARGUERITE STRICKLAND
cUi A good
cocktail must
be made
with
Gordon's
Gin*
THE HEART
OF A GOOD
COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY, GORDON & COMPANY LTD.. Distillers. LONDON.
%
jr
v
{ \t
fr
",
■
m
YXVs
ms,
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
me
You wouldn’t think moments were precious when
you see the average man brooding over bridge, or
loitering on the links, or dallying with darts. Yet
he’s very keen to save time over shaving. Hence
the 'Valet’ Shaving Set. Razor designed to give
you a high-speed shave. Blade self-stropped to a
perfect edge in half-a-jiffy. Cleaned in a moment.
Nothing to unscrew. Nothing to take apart. The
whole shaving business is over in 60 seconds.
*****
VAL
\
v:
The Set illustrated is the No. 50 Nickel Set. In highly-polished
nickelled case lined with velvet. Comprises a heavily silvered self-
stropping 'Valet* razor, twelve 'Valet* blades and strop of selected
leather in hinged container 257-
Other sets from 4/6 to 65/-. Of all Dealers. British made.
‘VALET
AvCto/Simp
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
. V 2.226
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
stands as the Australian record, and Jack
Donaldson’s 9fsec. for the world.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: A quaint gesture by the
professional Victorian Athletic League
was to lift all suspensions and disqualifi-
cations from its subjects in honor of the
accession of Edward VIII. Among those
benefiting is Morgan, who got good pub-
licity last year by appearing at meetings
in dilapidated clothing and with bare feet.
He went out for having forgotten that
as an amateur he had some very hot per-
formances to his credit in N.S.W. dis-
tance events.
* * * *
“Gate”: The new itinerary of the Eng-
lish Rugby League team begins on May
30 with a match against Metropolis at
Sydney. After a short country trip
N.S.W. will be taken on on June 6, and
then comes a skip to Queensland, with a
match against Brisbane on June 10 and
another v. Queensland three days later.
Then, after a tour of Bananaland as far
as Townsville, back to Sydney for an-
other match with N.S.W. on June 27, to
be followed by the first Test at Sydney
on June 29. The second Test will be
played on July 4 at Brisbane, and after
engagements in Queensland and N.S.W.
on the way back to Sydney the third Test
comes off on July 25. The tourists, if
able, will leave for Maoriland the same
evening.
“Cash and Carry”: N.S.W. country
Rugby League centres which are to get
matches with the English team are com-
plaining bitterly because they are asked
to put up guarantees of £250, whereas
all that is being asked from Queensland
centres is £lOO. Newcastle is to be stung
for a £5OO guarantee. Australian teams
going to the North of England get no
guarantee for their matches.
“Gate”: N.S.W. country Rugby
Leagues have stopped a woodener, the
insurance companies having raised their
rates on professional players—of which
each club retains two or three —by over
100 per cent. Companies say injuries
are so consistently severe that last season
premiums were swamped in payments.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Two more crack
G.P.S. footballers are going over to the
Sydney League, which already has
Beaton. Still they may not be lost to
the Union game. Any Union player who
has not found League football as pleasant
as expected has only to go tearfully to
the Union and tell a tale to be reinstated.
*.* * *
“Tenakoe”: The All-Blacks sailed for
M.L. after beating a Victoria team at
Vancouver, 27-3. Their feelings must
be akin to those of a lot of prodigal sons
approaching the old homestead and won-
dering what sort of reception the old
man will give them. Most international
sides would be glad to claim their record
on the past tour, but Maoriland teams
of the past have raised such a standard
of perfection that by comparison the per-
formances of this party seem catastrophic
in the eyes of the fervent M.L. barracker.
Not since Australia won all three Tests
off the reel in 1929 has M.L. Rugby
prestige suffered such a shock.
* * * *
“Rucker”: If the Rugby conference
in London has done naught else it has
agreed on an ambitious programme of
inter-Dominion tours. South Africans
visit this country and M.L. next year,
and in 1938 Britons go to South Africa.
In 1939 Australians hope to be in Britain,
and in 1940 the All-Blacks will betake
themselves to South Africa. Britons tour
Australia and M.L. in 1942, and the
Springboks invade the Mother Country
the following year. Then M.L. goes to
Britain to restore the mana lost this
season. A lot of water must run under
the bridges before all that is over. Let’s
hope there are no unseemly interrup-
tions.
“James Pigg”: Jorrocks has left it on
record that “of all daft brutes a grey-
hound’s the daftest.” Proof was forth-
coming during the running of a quarter
at the Dunn Shield meeting at Sydney
Sports Ground. A greyhound appeared
from nowhere and, apparently under the
impression that two of the runners were
tin hares, got after them. Instead of put-
ting up a new Australian record the run-
ners stopped and placated the deceived
hound with fair words until he was cap-
tured and hoofed out of the ground. A
pity in a way the race was not run out
without interference. We could do with
a bit more red blood in our modern
sports.


**
/{ 0
(J T
S
°4/
< y 6'
'b
Cl
i/
Cb
fn
o
m
A
m
O
s
! !%ic
25**
SNS
«v-,
s .
° o^
So
r 's>--
°Q.rj
s Pe
*ho
°.f
COB
4s,
IQ//
®*ld
®Hp
£&>
“S?***.
Car
(T?
zgmMMx
§
\
■
mm
■
■
I
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Where Public Enterprise Fails
Australia does pay for brains (B.
29 /1 / ’36), but not in Government depart-
ments. Compare the staff controlled and
the money handled by a post office in
any large country town with the condi-
tions at the banks in that town ; then
compare the salaries paid to the staffs.
It’s safe to say that the Government gets
its work done for half what it costs a
bank.
But it’s the discrepancies that hurt. I
know an office where the latest wireless
and telephone developments are in con-
tinuous commercial use. The picked man
in charge gets the same pay as at an
office where no staff is required and no
modern equipment is installed.
Another point: no private employer
would be permitted to employ a staff
under the insanitary conditions and dearth
of air-space for which some Government
offices are notorious. In these cases no
health inspector can interfere: “the King
can do no wrong.”—A. Wanganella
(Vic.).
Fell the Native Trees!
There is another side to the afforesta-
tion question (B. 8/1 / ’36). At Stanley,
north-east Vic., hundreds of acres of
Australian hardwood have been de-
stroyed, or are in process of being de-
stroyed, to make way for Pinus insignis
and other unmarketable softwoods. It
would not matter much if the native trees
were stunted, but magnificent mountain
ash, messmate and peppermint are being
felled “to provide work for the unem-
ployed.” It is unutterably stupid waste of
wealth in two forms.— lronbark (Vic.).
Four-and-ten a Week
According to Sir John Orr, an Aber-
deen University research lecturer on the
economics of diet, “4,500,000 Britons are
existing on an average of only 4s. a week
each for food, and are definitely suffering
from a deficiency in health-giving sub-
stances.” They need 12 p.c. to 25 p.c.
more meat, eggs, fruit and vegetables.
What about the position in South Aus-
tralia, where food is dearer than in
Britain?
Under the scale established, which
“relieves” 15,000 S.A. youngsters, 74d.
worth of food per day is provided for
children six to nine years old, B|d. worth
per day for those nine to thirteen years
old. The adult scale is 4s. lOd. per week.
What sort of citizens and citizenship
can be bred on such allowances?—?. P.
(S.A.).
M.L. Fish for Wiluna
Wiluna (W.A.) gets its fish from
Maoriland, though only 400 miles from
Geraldton, centre of one of the most
prolific fishing grounds the State pos-
sesses. Maoriland fish is, of course, good,
but Wiluna people would prefer fish from
Geraldton or thereabouts. If they are not
allowed to get it under the present con-
trol (which would bear looking into), the
Japanese may oblige—they, of course,
are catching fish a few hundred miles
north of Geraldton and taking it to
Singapore.—B. K. (W.A.).
Maoriland’s Government Railways
Sir Francis Dent, an English railway
authority, said in Melbourne recently
that State-owned railways could never
pay. Some bright Melburnian corrected
him, and produced figures to show that
the State-owned Maoriland railways have
been run at a profit for each of the past
10 years. He must know a good deal
more than do Maorilanders or the M.L.
Statistician. That official’s figures show
that the M.L. railways dismally fail to
return interest; in 1931, for example, net
revenue was £1 3s. 3d. p.c. of capital cost,
and the capital was borrowed round
5 p.c.
The Dominion railways are a sore
point with the public and the Govern-
ment, too. Apart from running losses,
millions have been spent on lines which
have never been finished. Surely if rail-
ways paid the State would want to have
as many lines as possible in operation,
instead of leaving them half-finished. —
Puff (M.L.).
Education for Parents
The “Plain English” article on our not-
so-free educational systems (B. 29/1/’36)
has prompted me to touch on a feature
which other recent criticisms have
left untouched. I have never been a
schoolmaster, but I have spent several
years in teaching children in their own
homes.
I have been tutor in a fairly wealthy
household in which the three children I
taught suffered from malnutrition. They
were fed principally on sausages, tinned
stuff, soggy white bread and tea. No
milk, no green vegetables, practically no
fruit. These unfortunate children had
no fixed hour for going to bed. They
were always tired, and their general
response to my efforts was almost as if
they were half-witted.
It has been a fairly general experience
of mine in country tutoring. In most
places the parents did nothing to satisfy
the emotional side of their offspring’s
nature. The children were in some
aspects spoiled, in other aspects thwarted.
I am amazed that children grow up
as well as they do.—Retired Tutor
(N.S.W.).
Those “Intelligence” Tests
Sundry Australian newspapers are
publishing what are called “intelligence
tests,” and, like the rest of the intelli-
gence tests applied all the world over
by scientists who should know better,
they are not tests of intelligence at all
but tests of quickness of brain.
Some of the most brainy people in the
world are slow-moving mentally; in
fact, the more profound the brain, the
more slowly it acts as a rule. At one
period, I had frequent contact with two
men revered throughout Australia for
their profundity of thought—and de-
servedly revered. Both were politicians
when I first knew them. Later, one was
the Chief Justice of his State, and the
other was a Federal High Court Justice.
They ran a dead-heat for the booby
prize in slowness of understanding
among all the people I had to deal with.
I’ll wager that neither of them could have
solved the problems, for which the news-
papers allot a bogey of five minutes,
under a quarter of an hour. The quick-
est-trained men in the community are the
frequenters of two-up schools and the
“followers of racing” ; yet nobody would
hail these as the possessors of super-
intelligence.
In quickness of thought the average
woman is well ahead of the average
man; just consider her in a witness-
box ! But it is a sad fact that in the
higher intelligence mere man is still well
in front. — Como (Vic.).
For the League
You liken the League of Nations to
“a dummy stuffed with wind and straw,
all the more tragic if it remains the
object of idolatry of cheering simpletons
and gaping fools.” Who are these wide-
mouthed morons who place their faith in
the League and its aims? Are they the
millions of Englishmen and -women
whose decisive verdict in favor of the
League given a few months ago stung
the war-mongers and jingoes in every
part of the world, and rammed it home
by putting the boot into Hoare. Or are
they the serried mob of half-wits that
applaud the platitudes that fall from the
lips of Gilbert Murray, Zimmern, Cecil,
Bergson, Smuts, Toynbee, Benes and
others too numerous to mention?
The writer of the article moans over
the starving of the civil population “in
one of the poorest countries in that small
section of the world.” I admit that it is
a terrible thing to involve a civil popu-
lation in international conflict. To starve
or bomb them from the air is odious.
The League of Nations strives to prevent
the one and the other, realising that
modern warfare is not confined to mili-
tary forces. Italy can assist in this work
by spending less money on war materials,
poison gas and bombs and more on
necessary commodities.
It is regrettable that several important
nations are no longer members of the
League ; still, this is not irreparable. And
I have never heard of a team leaving the
field because one or two of its players
dropped out.
The question of collective security is
too big to be brushed aside with a Pod-
snap gesture or a flood of resounding
ballyhoo, unless we are to pass the buck
to a less experienced generation. — Fred
Aarons, president, Blinded Soldiers
Association (N.S.W.).


Patents.
PROCESS AND MECHANISM FOR
SEPARATING INTERMIXED DIVIDED
MATERIALS.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patents
Nos. 13062/28 and 13063/28 are prepared to
negotiate for the sale of their rights in the
above or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the inventions within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
inventions obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FITZGERALD died intestate at
Horsham on 21st January, 1935. His father
was Franc ' s Flt zgerald (married at Geelong in
1 ? b l, ot her named Frank was born
about 1862. Francis Fitzgerald or Frank Fitz-
°. r , an y Person claiming through or
w hereabouts of either of them, is
guested to communicate with the CURATOR
Qrv\[l H^m S £ ATES OF DECEASED PER-
FiATFn at M Q ,u een Street > Melbourne, Cl.
orv l i^ e^ ourne this sth day of Febru-
F spates of tv ’ Curator of the
Estates ot Deceased Persons.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
February Issue Now on Sale.
ARE PRICES TOO HIGH?
THE CEMENT INDUSTRY.
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS.
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £11216 per annum you may have, the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-
Double rooms from 14/-. Double
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROLLERY,ETC.
What Price Fijis?
That Fiji gold shares were no stock for
the fainthearted or financially-weak has
been proven in Melbourne this last fort-
night. The demonstration has actually
been going on since well before Christ-
mas, but the liveliest flurry in the share-
market occurred on Feb. 1. Then Em-
peror 10s. shares were sold as low as
9s. 8d.—previously they had been up to
29s.
It has been a sad business for punters,
some of whom would scarcely know the
difference between a goldmine and a
golden-syrup pudding. Whisperings,
hearsay and a little official data —the
prospectus put ore “proved” by shafting
and trenching at 211,000 tons, estimated
to contain 141,500oz., worth £1,132,000
(Aust.) at £8 per fine ounce —sent the
public scrambling for the scrip last Sep-
tember. Loloma, Koroere and a lot of
smaller fry also had a spectacular run.
Among the three shows in which E. G.
Theodore is interested, Koroere has suf-
fered most in the market since; then
Emperor and Loloma.
When the Fiji boom was on The Bul-
letin was a lone voice in advising
caution. With that £l,132,000-worth
of gold reported to be in sight the public
rushed in and paid on the basis of
£2,175,000 for the Emperor mine at one
stage. Westralian, New Guinea
and Solomon Islands experience
went unregarded ; practically every
Fiji show was paid for on the
assumption that it was a winner.
Some punters who had been badly
bitten in Australian shows went
into Fijis as a “saver”; a few
made money, but the heaviest sales
have been registered at the record
low prices of the past few weeks.
It is a long time since Mel-
bourne has been so perturbed
about things financial. Correspon-
dence in the “Argus” on the evil
or otherwise of bear operations
centred principally in the fall in
Emperors. Emperor directors were
sufficiently concerned to write to
the Melbourne Stock Exchange
advising shareholders not to become
panicky; they mentioned that work
“indicated a very large addition of pay-
able ore” to the estimates given in the
prospectus. Capacity of the present
plant, which over the period Dec. 31 to
Jan. 25 treated 1230 tons for 7640 z., is
to be increased to 2000 tons monthly,
pending completion of a 12,000-tons-a-
--month unit. After this announcement
(the Loloma board made another next
day) there was a rally in most Fiji issues.
This paper has seen far too much of
the disastrous consequences of gold-share
booms and busts —over half a century
there have been plenty—to wish Fiji
shareholders anything but a handsome
return on their dabbling. The best wishes
in the world, however, are of no avail
unless a mine has the goods; and the
goods have to justify the price. The
market premium given on the estimated
gross value (out of which extraction costs
would have to be met) of Emperor’s
probable ore reserves (at flotation)
has already been mentioned. Payment
to the vendors of £300,000 (as well as
£300,000 in shares) left the show with
less than £150,000 for development and
plant purchase. On Westralian experi-
ence this was cutting things rather fine.
A statement by the directors on the
financial position might not be out
of place. Few things depress a min-
ing stock more than demands on share-
holders for extra capital (over which any
dividends eventually paid must be
spread). A report that finances are com-
fortable might do a great deal to relieve
shareholders’ apprehension.
But it is suggested that nothing would
revive confidence more than the exer-
cise by the vendors (who should know
the property better than most others) of
their cash option over the 350,000 shares
earmarked for that purpose for 18
months from Sept. 15, 1936. Perhaps
the terms of the option do not permit of
its immediate taking up ; but' a firm offer
by the vendors now would do just as well.
Tin is below £203 in London. The
share-list is a confusing spectacle ; some
Malayan stocks are up, others down —
mostly down. Permissible production in
the F.M.S. at present is 90 p.c. of 1929
quotas, nearly double that of 12 months
ago. Cos. with moderate costs and large
dredgeable reserves of material should
fare best. Concerns likely to suffer are
those with only a short working life
ahead of them. They cannot afford to
“No, it isn't for a dog; it's for me. The missus keeps locking me out."
spread themselves to take advantage of
the increased quota.
* * * *
New Occidental (N.S.W.) is a case
where the market clearly has the jitters.
The shares, up to 16s. a few weeks ago,
have recently been below 12s. The drop
in the December recoveries was a shock.
It is about time the position in regard
to this show was clarified. It seems to
have the goods.
* * * *
Zinc Corporation has a longer prob-
able life than any other mine at the Bar-
rier ; development work has brought
new ore reserves to light. The ordinary
shares are actively dealt in in Adelaide,
Melbourne and Sydney, recent sales of
the ords. being in the vicinity of 755.
The show is controlled from London.
Twenty-five years’ supply of ore is a
modest estimate of what can be seen
with the eye and measured with the drill
at present rate of extraction. A richer
body of material has also been un-
covered. Fifteen and 20 years’ supply is
as much as the South and North can
claim to see (they are rather more modest
in their published accounts), but de-
velopment is substantially in arrears. A
systematic drilling campaign by the three
principal mines, to be undertaken
shortly, is regarded by many to presage
a big all-round increase in Barrier ore
reserves. The future of lead prices looks
comparatively bright.
* * * *
Some time ago it was mentioned on
this page that Broken Hill South shares,
from an income point of view, presented
probably the best opportunity for ac-
quiring an interest in the Barrier mines.
The £1 shares were then below £5. They
have since been up to £6 ; following the
reaction in base metal prices they have
fallen less in the market than Norths,
which went to over £9 and may now be
picked up at £7 16s. Souths have sold
around £5 15s. lately; a jubilee bonus
of 2s. 6d. a share goes out to shareholders
on March 14, together with the regular
2s. 6d. quarterly distribution. Altogether
£200,000 passes over. Lead, after steady-
ing around £l6 55., has dropped to £l5
155.; spelter is also weaker at £l4 15s.
* * * *
North Kalgurli, one of the best buys
on the Golden Mile at 19s. 3d., struck
2oz. values over a width of sft. and a
length of 13ft. the other day. The lode
at sft. was not fully exposed. It hap-
pened in the n.-e. drive on the 1350 ft.
level, 75ft. west of the Associated
northern boundary. North Kal. has a
tidy pile of profitable ore reserves. Share-
holders get a bit irritated at times over
the small capacity of the plant; but im-
provements are in sight.
* * * *
Doubt about the stability of another
important country’s currency generally
brings big transfers of funds to London.
Transmissions of money are rarely ship-
ments of gold these days; they are con-
versions, through banks, of dollars to
pounds, francs to pounds, or vice versa.
Uncertainty as to the future of the cur-
rency has caused another big efflux of
dollar-money from the U.S.A.; the ex-
changes between New York, London and
Paris have been jumpy, and out of it
all has come a slight weakening in the
sterling price of gold. But, if the dollar
is devalued further, the ultimate result
should be a higher London price for the
yellow metal.
* * * *
Australian wool and wheat prices for
January were the best for a long while.
On the 18 th of the month Sydney quotes
for the staple were the best since April,
1934. At the same date wheat stood at
the average figure realised in 1930 ; in
other words, the highest quote for six
years. In 1935 the grower fared better
than in 1934, and 1936 has started
promisingly.
* * * *
Exports of Australian wines to Canada,
which last year totalled 70,000 gallons,
are likely to be affected by a trade treaty
recently signed between Canada and
France which reserves “generic” names
for European districts whence the names
were derived. France’s attempt to gain
world-wide acceptance of this principle
failed last year; its new policy is to
achieve the purpose by means of separate
agreements. The position will now be
that Australian wine exported to Canada
will be “typeless.” Very unfortunate, in
view of the efforts made to build up a
market there.
* * * *
Triton (Cue, W.A.) has held its price
well in the recent disturbed gold-share
market. With Lancefield it is one of the
promising large-size shows in the West.
The scrip, paid to 10s., has never run
up to a high premium; the fairly big
price paid for the mine has prevented that.
One of the smaller Westralian fry, Edju-
dina (Yarri), has held well in the market.
It was discussed on this page some weeks
ago.
The January crushing of Triton was
5736 tons for 1966 fine ounces, a yield
of 6.Bdwt., equal to approximately
£2 16s. lOd. a ton. Average recoveries
have been fairly steady around that
figure, though, owing to a smaller
throughput, last month’s total yield was
3140 z. lighter. Values recovered so far
are about the same average as Lance-
field, acknowledging the Beria show’s
peculiarity of speaking in short tons.
Triton is about 2500 tons lower in
monthly milling capacity as yet.
* * * *
“Findy”: Had H. B. Howard Smith
died five years ago Federal and State
probate coffers would have received a
much smaller windfall than they are now
preparing for. A large proportion of the
millionaire’s estate of £1,135,378 repre-
sented shares in Howard Smiths and asso-
ciated concerns. The parent company’s
scrip changes hands to-day at a shade
over 19s. In 1931 sales were recorded as
low as ss. 6d. Subsidiaries show a simi-
lar, if not so marked, difference in price.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Fiji gold shares, after dipping to record
low levels, recovered slightly following state-
ments by Emperor and Loloma directors.
Official dealings in Emperor scrip on Tuesday
totalled 13,000 shares; Loloma, 8500.
Australian Cement shares fell to 30s. 6d.,
following a reduction in Vic. cement prices;
on £-for-£ capital basis, Kandos at 255. 2d.
(= 31s. 6d. per £) is now valued higher
than Vic. holding co. Difference is probably
justified, as Kandos has the smaller capital.
Ironbark (Bendigo) shares rose from 7s. 6d.
to 135., dropping back to 9s. 9d. on Thursday.
Good gold reported on 1528 ft. level. Clean-up
of crushing commenced on Friday.
Bank shares continued to attract interest
at improved prices, though at mid-week
Sydney quotes were appreciably higher, Mel-
bourne coming into line on Thursday.
Sharemarket generally a shade less buoyant
than Sydney, whence most buying initiative
appears to be coming.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Peter Ibbetson”
This Du Maurier novel, like it’s mate
The Martian, had a market once upon
a time among people who liked Trilby,
but has long been forgotten. The film
version is remarkable for careful atten-
tion to small details, good casting and
acting -clever enough to endow the mix-
ture of melodrama and occultism with
a cloak of realism. Action commences
with the early years of Ibbetson and his
lady-love; Dickie Moore and Virginia
Weidler shine here. Later Gary Cooper
Charles Norman in “Anything Goes," at
Sydney Royal.
and Ann Harding are substituted. They
have not met since childhood. She is a
duchess, he a penniless architect. But
true love scorns all that. The duke,
attempting to shoot his wife and her
lover, miraculously manages to shoot
himself. Ibbetson (on what evidence isn’t
clear) is acquitted of murder, but sen-
tenced to life imprisonment on general
principles. Brutal warders break his back
in court immediately sentence is pro-
nounced, and he is like to die, but in a
dream his sweetheart visits him and bids
him be of good cheer. They continue
this dream association till they are both
old—she in her castle, he in his prison
cell, chained to a stone floor—and at last
death unites them for ever. The super-
natural features of the story are pre-
sented very prettily and effectively, and
though the theme is lugubrious interest is
held. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Nevada”
A Zane Grey creation. Cattle rustlers
are foiled by a romantic-looking cow-
puncher who eventually marries daugh-
ter of prominent’ cattleman. A comic
sheriff, several doddering cow-proprietors
and two villains figure in the opus;
Robert Coote in “Anything Goes.
posses tear through the country most of
the time discharging firearms. Buster
Crabbe is the hero, and his nice exhibition
of swimming, which has very little to do
with the story, raises a faint flutter of
interest. Kathleen Burke is the girl. She
has little to do but to look pleasant,
which she achieves satisfactorily. Acting
generally is third-rate. Also at the Prince
Edward.
A Bunch of “Shorts”
Vaudeville is just as good entertain-
ment as drama, and, moreover, runs less
risk of being boresome. There are
few ninety-minute films that wouldn’t
be strengthened by cutting to sixty
minutes, and quite a lot that could be
made to say all they have to say in
thirty. The finest examples of intelligent
cutting and skilful montage seen on the
Australian screen are to be found among
the “shorts,” which run from ten to fif-
teen minutes. A well-assorted bunch of
these figures on the current programme
at Sydney Mayfair.
“Trained Hoofs” follows the career of
a thoroughbred racehorse from birth to
its debut in a three-furlong scurry.
Glimpses are given of such famous sires
as Man o’ War and Crusader ; the colt
is nursed through a bout of pneumonia
(covered with rugs and packed with hot-
water bottles like a Christian); inured
to the saddle (commencing with a light
cloth, to which a pound weight is added
each day), and finally made familiar with
the American technique of starting.
“The Chinese Nightingale” is a colored
cartoon fantasy based on the Hans
Andersen story. The emperor in his
porcelain palace plays a stringed instru-
ment. The nightingale perches on one
of the pegs, shuts its eyes, puffs out its
chest and pours out a flood of trills with
all the airs of a prima donna. Comes
the clockwork nightingale, whereupon
Harry Langdon in “Anything Goes.”
the real one packs its bag, puts on its
hat and flies off. Its friend, a faithful
crow, attacks the mechanical bird and
destroys it, then, bidden by the emperor,
sets out to search for the exile. Over
mountains and cities flies the crow;
spring turns to summer, and summer to
autumn. Winter comes with its snows.
Not till spring is the nightingale found —
feeding three chicks, with which it re-
turns to gladden the heart of its master.
Three little Chinese maids, a sort of
Greek chorus, add commentary to the
happenings in song.
“The Alibi Racket” belongs to the
“Crime Does Not Pay” series. A very
clever alibi is illustrated. At the time a
certain big-shot gangster was bumped
off the suspect, gangster-next-in-rank, is
able to call unimpeachable evidence that
he was in a picture-show; that he re-
ceived a telephone message while there,
and didn’t leave till two hours after the
murder was committed. The police say
the suspect was never at the theatre;
his brother doubled for him. Brother
produces evidence of a service station
in the city that he was there in his car
after he was supposed to have entered
the theatre, and before the telephone
call. It is proved by fingerprints that the
police were right. The brother did repre-
sent the actual criminal, and dodged out
of the theatre for five minutes (through
a retiring-room window) to manufacture
his own alibi.
“Shrimps for a Day” in the “Our
Gang” series is an essay on the theme
of Anstey’s Vice Versa. Society folk,
brother and sister, entertaining at their
home some orphanage children, are
magically returned to childhood and
taken to the orphanage (of which they
are directors). It is run on Dotheboys
Hall lines, and when the unwilling
visitors return to their rightful stature
there is trouble looming for the princi-
pal and matron. The children who act
in this series are clever comedians, and
they leave no moment uneventful.
“Unknown Woman”
Another of the “G-man” type of
talkie which is being churned out like
sausages by Hollywood, and which
mingles entertainment with propaganda.
The plot, very far from foolproof, intro-
duces a big-shot gangster whose life is
Lillian Pertka in “Anything Goes.”
harassed in trying to secrete a million
dahlars, and who tries concealing it as
a disguised sealed will in the safe of a
young but honest lawyer. Also, there’s
a beautiful goil who (though she mustn’t
even whisper the awful fact to her
pet Peke) is a secret Federal agent—
presumably interested in taxation.
Finally, there’s a shindy aboard a tramp
steamer between Italian fishermen and
gangsters, as a result of which the mil-
lion bucks are recovered by the forces
of law and order. Richard Cromwell
is an upright attorney who makes
speeches through his nose,. and Marion
Marsh is the goil detective. At Sydney
Lyric.
“Thanks a Million”
A satire on American politics in which
the irony is mostly unconscious, the
people who made the film being con-
vinced, apparently, that a crooner is
creation’s crown. A nearly-bankrupt
songandance troupe, travelling by bus, is
stranded for two hours in a one-horse
town. While there, its manager (Fred
Allen)' gets an engagement to jazz up
the campaign meetings of a candidate
for Governor, an incredibly grotesque old
soak who wears 3in. stiff collars. Candi-
date for the nth time being too drunk
to stand up, the troupe’s crooner (Dick
Powell) is deputised to read his speech,
summarises it in ten seconds, and makes
such a good impression on the audience
that the campaign managers elect him
candidate (he turns out to be a local lad).
Crooner agrees because election meetings
(including his crooning) are broadcast,
and the publicity is valuable. Just before
the election the crooks who are running
him ask crooner to sign a lengthy docu-
ment in which he undertakes to give them
all unlimited opportunities for graft. In-
stead, crooner, at final meeting, reads
document in public and advises hearers to
vote for his opponent. Then he flees the
State to avoid the vengeance of his
backers.
Headed for the boundary line at
90 m.p.h. he is overtaken by a vast
squad of traffic cops on motor-cycles and
informed that he has been elected by a
vast.majority. He is now free to marry
his sweetheart (Ann Dvorak). Musical
garnishings include a great deal of croon-
Fredric March in “The Dark Angel,” at
Sydney Regent.
ing by Powell, some chorus songs that
good-humoredly poke fun at current
political developments in the U.S.A., and
an item by Paul Whiteman’s band.
Honors of the piece, with those in-
different to croonery, will be awarded to
Fred Allen (he made his name in broad-
casting), whose flood of wisecracks is
rapid and effective, and to Rubinoff, a
violinist who has humor. Previewed at
Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“Dance Band”
At Sydney Capitol. The plot, revolv-
ing as it does about dance bands and
dance-band leaders, is mush. It’s all
about a competition held in London for
big prize-money and a record contract
and a wicked scheme —which fails—to
vitiate the efforts of one crowd of effemi-
nate young men by purloining their in-
struments. Buddy Rogers is a typical
dance-band exquisite—we’ll say that of
him. June Clyde is a leader of a girls
band who splits the prize with Buddy,
and—oh! yes, the rival bands merge
and the respective leaders fall in a clinch
at the final fadeout. The music is like
all dance-band music—it took four strong
men and a woman to write the lyrics
and music, so they can all claim a share
of the one mediocre melody that rears
itself out of a quagmire of cacophony.
Merle Oberon in “The Dark Angel."
But, though music and plot are poor,
there’s plenty of swift-moving comedy.
The Elstree photography is beautiful, and
the sets are lavish and tasteful.
Some First Nights
“Anything Goes,” a musicomedy which
has had long runs in London and New
York, didn’t go very well at Sydney
Royal on Saturday. Charles Norman,
returning thanks for the kindness of an
audience which had been (as is usual with
Sydney first-nighters) determined to enjoy


J/ie NEW POWER
** MOTION PICTURED
FAMOUS PICTURE SERIES
up:
i
r
ul
S
kis Merry Majesty
4 Musical Comedy
•t-iis First World/
production/
-//
E
Made fo make
the Whole World
WUG H-.
WIN OKR
WEM BOLD'
Imagine—just imagine Jack the Joker as a very
modern young man-about-town courting trouble
and the lovely ladies back in the good—or were
they bad?—old days “When Knights Were Bold.’ 2
IT’S FUN UNLIMITED,
SET TO CATCHY
SONG HITS!
v-.:
il
1
'' Vf r '< /' '■
.
*
►
m
►
Sparkling, Spectacular
Entertainment ... a
Super Production worthy
o £ this World Popular
Star!
Coming to Entertain
v cAR Your Local Theatre
T4fc * Manager About it/
aAaAAaaAaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaai
itself, referred to the performance as
“our little rehearsal.” and that’s what it
looked and sounded like.
The book, by Wodehouse and Bolton,
is bright enough, Cole Porter’s music is
clever stuff of its sort and the dialogue,
plentifully besprinkled with Bowery
wisecracks (the scene is a transatlantic
liner) has snap, but the mummers who
had all this entertainment at their com-
mand failed to put it over. Possibly after
a few more “little rehearsals” things will
click into place, but on Saturday night
they were disjointed. Accent was put
on lines which should have flitted past
too speedily to leave a nasty taste ; the
points of various jests were lost through
poor enunciation or because they were
drowned by an audience that seemed
to consider itself bound to laugh and
applaud continually.
Half of what honors were going must
be tacked on Harry Langdon, an ex-
ponent of the Mark Twain style of
humor, delivered with a poker face. As
a gangster in curate’s guise he had good
opportunities; with better support he
could have made more of them. Robert
“Grosvenor House, Charlotte-place, Sydney,” etching by
Lionel Lindsay in the Macleod Gallery. Grosvenor House,
which stood in what is now Grosvenor-street, has long
been demolished. In the background may be seen the tower
of what is now THE BULLETIN building and the skylights of
the Macleod Gallery.
Coote, in a Wodehouse silly-ass part,
earned the other half of the honors.
Lillian Pertka, like Mr. Langdon a new-
comer, is a remarkably pretty little lady
with platinum blonde hair and a Lilli-
putian voice. She seemed to need ampli-
fying in all departments, but what could
be heard of her singing was all that
torch-moaning should be. Charles
Norman, in a songandance-hero role,
gave an impression of working furiously
hard that was at variance with the care-
less gaiety he was supposed to irradiate.
Eccentric dancing by Cis and Buddy
Roberts provided a bright interlude. The
ballets were as well-legged as ever, but
their dressing (and undressing) was not
particularly effective.
-I- *S* *t* *«•
The huge tent on Sydney Sports
Ground seemed to bulge in places on
Saturday night when a jovial crowd gave
vociferous welcome to Ivan Bros.’ Circus.
There is a degree of intimacy between
performers and audience which is pecu-
liar to the sawdust ring. The sublety
from hidden effects is washed out in a
fierce blaze of light; there need be no
decorum about the guffaws which greet
the gentleman in a weird tartan suit much
too large for him who invariably gets
the best of the verbal exchanges with
the ringmaster, and who comes a long
succession of abdominal thuds as he trips
over every conceiv-
able thing in the
arena. Even the
peanuts can be
cracked with a de-
lightful abandon
necessitating double
fortissimo from the
orchestra to make
itself heard.
The Ivan pro-
gramme is liberal.
Solid horses, with
coats looking as if
they’ve been
ducoed, do intelli-
gent things, and
are cleverly ridden.
There are tumblers
and acrobats
galore; indeed,
they make up half
the show. A plump
lady does a
sprightly hop on a
tight wire. A
young girl depends
on a perfect set of teeth to save her from
an aerial plunge. Thirty items make up a
bright 2\ hours. An octet of shapely
beauty, efficient and ever-smiling, trips
through several melodious ballets. A
good circus.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Quamdiu”: If the average reign of
an English sovereign, beginning with
Egbert, works out at something under 20
years (B. 5/2/’36), the last eight must
have had a lot to do with raising the
figure to that point. Since the House of
Hanover arrived in 1714, the average
length of a reign has been a shade under
28 years. And all the eight have been
long-lived, in the ordinary sense, from
Queen Victoria (81), down to George IV.
(67). Average length of life, over 72
years.
* * * *
"Oxmead”: In recent Commonwealth
elections the biggest majorities have
almost always been obtained by Laborites
in industrial or mining strongholds. In
Britain the other side do even better when
there are contests in some of their pre-
serves. At last year’s general elections
nine men were returned to the House of
Commons with majorities of over 30,000.
County Down (Northern Island) supplied
two of these, Brighton another pair;
South Kensington, Epsom, Blackpool,
Tamworth and Hendon one apiece—all
Conservatives. The biggest majority of
the elections was over 46,000 ; the lowest
a precarious 16.
* * * *
"Old-timer”: Paragraphists frequently
tell us of the alleged loneliness of opera-
tors on Cocos and such places (B.
I 1 / 36), but I think it is only a min-
ority who find it a hardship. After a
few weeks one begins to lead a life alto-
gether apart from the world, and there
comes a certain feeling of superiority, as
though one were above the pettiness,
noise, jealousy and sophistry, which
are the most outstanding things in
crowded places. I speak, not as an
ex-operator, but as an ex-boundary-rider
v. ho frequently didn’t see another man
for weeks on end— and then only to say
Good day.”
* * *
■ c ", P° sta l Department has
ceased to issue the publication giving the
ind J* numbers of various localities,
probably because the public refuses to
f PP A them " A recer *t test
show hat of 35 letters examined only
II writers gave these numbers. The
Was a fatuous °ne
the g nmng, copied from London with-
out any consideration of local condi-
tions. The Yanks have a far better sys-
tem ; there are no two streets bearing
the same name in any metropolitan area,
even a huge one like New York. The
result is that anybody who sends a letter
to Washington-street sends it to the only
Washington-street in that town.
* * * *
“C.A.M.”: I would top the list of
physicians who have made names for
themselves in other directions with Dr.
Thomas Bowdler, who enriched the lan-
guage with a priceless verb. Bowdler was
a graduate in medicine of Edinburgh
University, and a leisured man whose in-
herited wealth relieved him of the neces-
sity of practising. Consequently he gravi-
tated to literature and philanthropy,
wrote pamphlets on antiquarian subjects,
was one of the pioneers of prison reform
and a founder of the Society for the
Suppression of Vice. He sub-edited
Shakspeare ; his Family Shakspeare, in
10 volumes, omits every word that
Bowdler regarded as “improper.” His
treatment of the Decline and Fall of
the Roman Empire did the same ser-
vice for Gibbon. It was in 1836 that
some indignant member of the House of
Commons objected to his speeches being
“bowdlerised” in the press. That is the
first time the word is known to have been
used, so that this is its centenary year.
Had it not filled a long-felt want
Bowdler’s name would long have been
forgotten.
$ $ $ $
“Footfault”: Cabled that Perry is
training with Arsenal football club. Pre-
sumably he will confine himself to the
running part of the preparation, for the
risk of a bump in play might queer him
altogether by setting his injured back
muscles off again. No news of the cham-
pion’s condition is available. It will be
a fearful shock for English tennis if the
injury has not mended.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: English tennis
experts are deploring the fact that Hop-
man will not join the Davis Cup team,
being of the opinion that he is one
of the world’s best doubles players and
would click ideally in a partnership with
Quist. Hopman says he prefers to earn
money as a journalist.


11l
!r IV
Stromberg
-Carlson
RADIO
DEALERS .THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C 4
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Out of this writer’s little-used radio
the other morning came a voice of wis-
dom suggesting that the accession of
King Edward VIII. be marked by a great
tree-planting throughout the State. This
would be a fine follow-on to the memento
Sydney has of his visit as Prince of
Wales, for while staying at Government
House he planted a tree. Now, if, as
suggested, an avenue of flowering red-
and white-gums arises from our soil, his
memory will be glorious in their glowing
coronets. Sydney’s Lord Mayor approves
of tree-planting, for when the arboreal
section of the citizens of Sydney com-
mittee put before him a suggestion that
500,000 trees be planted to mark the
sesqui-centenary of the State, he pro-
mised to put in a word with the City
Council. Perhaps posterity will know a
Hyde Park as gracious with leafy bough
as are the Luxembourg gardens.
Brains are definitely worn dressed and
garnished. Bows, curls and coronets were
on the head of every second woman who
swept into the vestibule of the Royal on
Saturday night. If you were plain of
head, you didn’t sweep —you just walked
in. Frocks were complacent, each
thinking itself a bit better than its neigh-
bor, and all were good. Mrs. Hugh
Poate’s fuchsia - toned, fur - trimmed
elegance made striking contrast to the
toe-length muslins of film actress Mary
Maguire. Miles Mander and Mary’s
sister Pat made up an interesting group.
Tall Charles Farrell came, but though
Zane Grey was expected he failed to
arrive. His manager, Edwin Bowen, and
Mrs. Bowen, however, entertained one
of the box parties, while Strella Wilson
hostessed in another. Oswald Cheeke
brought some friends ; Pat Farquharson
arrived wrapped in a ground-length cape
of black velvet. Mrs. Jimmy Bancks’s
coronet was of black ostrich fronds ; her
frock, too, was black, but there was a
touch of green to bring out the red-gold
of her hair. Silver and white was Mrs.
Alexis Albert; the deep blue and pale
blue of the pansy were in Sadie Bedford’s
raiment, and briar-roses gleamed on
Mrs. David Knox’s chiffon. There was
a general sparkle in the atmosphere ; the
trade-winds are blowing fresh and free
once more. Sydney has come out of her
doldrums.
North-Shore-line music-lovers, shep-
herded by Mrs. Walter Swinson, are
arranging a night of melody at the
King’s Theatre, Gordon, to benefit the
Joan Hammond fund. Lady Gowrie has
promised to attend, and Joan will lift
her fragrant voice.
Rhodes Hambridge spent his last Cam-
bridge vacation looking up Macquarie’s
tomb. The Killara boy and a friend,
Oily Taylor, found it on a walking tour
jf the Hebrides ; the tomb is on Mull.
Looking up the mountainside at whose
foot the mausoleum was built, the travel-
lers saw deer in abundance- —and hares.
A burn tinkled some few yards away,
and the dead timber of centuries, hidden
by cushions of moss, cracked as they
stepped upon it. These and the lapping
of the Loch-’s waters were the only sounds
in a solitude as deep as that of a gully
in the remotest part of our Fox Valley.
Tommy Cochran, doing the round trip
between England and Australia in the
Otranto, is being half-killed with kind-
ness. Between welcome breakfasts and
lunches and dinners of farewell, he’s on
the verge of losing his greyhound look.
Tommy, who was to a post-war Mel-
bourne and Sydney what the cotillion
leader was to old Manhattan, has a wit
that is never malicious. He was, before
he made his home in London, easily
Australia’s champion diner-out. He and
Melba were the greatest of friends. The
Knoxes, the Ernest Watts, Mrs. Sidney
Jamieson and Syd Ure Smith all spread
the cloth for him in Sydney. He has
decided that his brother- and sister-Aus-
tralians are the best- and healthiest-look-
ing humans he has met on his travels.
Diana Reeve comes to Sydney from
London’s central school of speech-
training and dramatic art. This school
has its quarters in that massive building
the Albert Hall, and the course is a
three-year one. Besides a study of
phonetics, psychology, anatomy, cos-
tume designing, stage sets and so on,
the students from the beginning are re-
quired to do clinic work, chiefly at St.
Thomas’s Hospital; here twice a week
they train children to overcome lisps,
stutters or stammers. Miss Reeve, who
has worked with Oscar, who sometimes
produces for Cochran, and always for
Sybil Thorndike, proposes, in conjunction
with Grace Stafford, whose verse-speak-
ing choirs are already known, to produce
“The Furies” of /Eschylus in three
months’ time at the Conservatorium.
After “The Furies” have been put to
sleep Miss Reeve and Miss Stafford will
get busy on T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in
the Cathedral.” This was originally pro-
duced in the chapter-house of Canter-
bury Cathedral, and was not only an
artistic success but made money for the
producers and the poet. Miss Reeve
claims that there is a distinct revival of
interest in the poetic drama.
Hair is no longer just hair —it is a
coiffure. Anthony Horderns’ showed
the best and brightest way to be waved
at their new hairdressing salon last week.
Curls suggestive of the Empire period
ran like laughter over one head. Per-
haps it is the result of the popularity of
the Duchess of Kent that Grecian styles
will be featured for more formal occa-
sions. One coronet effect might have
adorned Sappho’s brow. Fringes curtain
many a brow, too, though it might be
as well to remember the dictum of the
Paris hairdresser, “Fringes are only for
the young.” Colored hair seems to hold
its own ; and blue and mauve tones were
mingled with white locks that apparently
have no intention of going down in
sorrow to the grave. N. 8.: Smoothness
is the keynote of the fashionable head.
Earl Beauchamp, who goes off to Eng-
land by way of Java next week, found
a lack of domestic quarters one of the
drawbacks when he was looking for a
furnished house in Sydney. The house
that he has just bought at Bellevue Hill
is having two or three rooms built on
for this purpose. The earl’s farewell
broadcast last week on Edward VIII. was
tinged with the sympathy and under-
standing of one who had known our new
King since his perambulator days.
Mrs. Colin Venn left the Forum Club
on the day of the C.W.A. party with a
gold-and-black evening-bag and two
packs of cards embossed with the asso-
ciation’s colors. Mrs. Venn is president
of the Harborside branch, and with
daughter Jessie McMaster she is by this
time bowling along towards England.
Mrs. Earle Page, another important
person of the afternoon, is also in the
Narkunda. Mrs. Hugh Munro, who goes
off to Japan, talked to Mrs. Marie Irvine
and Miss Anita Onslow, who will go off
somewhere as soon as their amiable
minds decide where. Mrs. W. Ramsay
McNicoll, Mrs. M. Bragg and Mrs. M.
Murphy were others hailed and fare-
welled. Dame Alice Chisholm and Mrs.
Matt Sawyer were notables.
News has come through of the death
in London of the widow of Timothy
Coghlan, sometime N.S.W. Statistician
and Agent-General The lady, on her
frequent visits to Sydney, was always
noted for her trim lines and her smart
clothes. Her passing has caused a wide
ripple of sorrow, for she had many
friends here. Her father was D. C. J.
Donnelly, M.L.A. for Carcoar and Cowra
in the ’nineties. One of the Coghlan
girls, it will be remembered, was killed
by a fall from a horse in Hyde Park. A
son, a daughter and two sisters are
mourning.
It fell to the lot of Margaret Baxter
(one time of Sydney), who runs the over-
seas section of the Forum Club in Lon-
don, to arrange the section’s Christmas
party. The guests of honor were Sir
Philip and Lady Game, and Margaret,
who is a fine hostess, netted quite a
catch of old Sydney friends to greet
them. The Fairfax lady was there,
Isabel Crowdy and the Beazley girls,
Joyce looking very attractive. Mrs.
Horsfall was another guest; so was the
handsome Mrs. Vernon Cole, of Manly.
Air-Marshal ' Lord Trenchard, former
Commissioner of England’s police, came
along to smile good luck on his suc-
cessor, Sir Philip Game. The Stanley
Bruces, N. S. Wales Trade Agent
Heath and his wife, Viscount Wakefield
and his lady and Captain Donald Sim-
son, one time of Maoriland, were among
the notables ascending and descending
the stairs in the pleasant club overlook-
ing Hyde Park.
One of the last to be received in audi-
ence by King George was Sydney’s old
friend Sir Philip Game.
At 13, Cecily Finlay, daughter of the
well-known potter Ernest Finlay, of
Lane Cove, has almost enough pieces
modelled, glazed and baked by herself
for an exhibition. Her father intends to
arrange a one-woman show for her dur-
ing the year.
This is the latest photo, of Marjorie
Hambridge, who gives her first recital
since her return to Sydney on Saturday.
The Conservatorium will be filled, for
this is Marjorie’s greeting and farewell.
She sails for Europe again in a month
or so. Travel combined with study
abroad has given the North-Shore-line
girl a brilliant technique and breadth of
interpretation. Portrait by Mindel and
Faraday, of London.
Mrs. A. Vert, who returned by the
Moldavia after a year in London, retains
two very vivid pictures of her stay in
London. They are the memory of King
George riding in the Row, followed by
the four princes ; and that of her son-
in-law, St. Andrew’s Dean Talbot,
preaching in Westminster Abbey. There
was a vast attendance, and the Dean
preached on the growth of the church in
Australia. The Dean is happily doing the
round of cathedral pulpits, and has
spoken at Gloucester and Winchester. If
ever there was inspiration for mellow
voice and churchly word it is to be found
in these arched and vaulted naves and
transepts. Mrs. Talbot, a brilliant
violinist, is going to the concerts. Mrs.
Vert’s younger daughter, Mrs. Bellah,
came over from New York, and the
family enjoyed a Christmas Day reunion.
A view of the gold plate at the Mansion
House in London (something like three
million pounds’ worth) proved a bit stag-
gering even to one who lives in a coun-
try of Kalgoorlies and such. London s
Lord Mayor handed to Mrs. Vert for
one dizzy minute a sword of finely
wrought Damascus, its scabbard crusted
with pearls and rubies, a gift of Queen
Elizabeth to the city.
Violet Vanbrugh (Mrs. Bourchier)
handed on to this Letter the good wishes
sent by sister Irene to her Sydney friends
and audiences. Violet, who proudly
claims fifty years of stage life, must
surely have been an infant prodigy. She
looks no more than an elegant late-
fortyish now, and, if she could be per-
suaded to it, would be an acquisition to
Australian films in hostess parts. She
doesn’t reserve her charm for stage pur-
poses —it is permanently on tap; and
everybody in the Otranto on the voyage
from England, from captain to winch-
man, was her slave. Her taste in mil-
linery runs to black hats. One has ostrich
fronds about it's brim.
Why don’t British-Australian ship-
ping companies do something to snatch
the honeymoon trade back from the
American subsidised lines? Judging by
the number of new made-ones who flock
up their gangways each trip the Ameri-
can liners have a monopoly. When the
Monterey went out last week she had
on board four of the previous day’s
brides and ’grooms, and there were
others too whose garments were still
flecked by confetti. Why don’t rival
shipping cos. offer a prize—some-
thing like a free passage for every fiftieth
honeymoon pair that books? To make
the thing pictorial, instal a turnstile
decked with orange-blossom that revolves
to the strains of “The Wedding March,”
through which new marriage-license
holders or applicants can approach the
booking counter. Consolation prizes,
such as an armchair for visiting mothers-
in-law and the best book of the 24 hours,
could be handed over to the forty-ninth
and fifty-first couple through the stile.
Among last week’s attractive brides
notch the names of Sheilah Lloyd Parry,
who became Mrs. John MacNamara by
grace of St. Mary’s, and Phyllis Booth,
of Bellevue Hill, who is now Mrs. Nor-
man Godhard. Her ring was slipped into
position in St. Mark’s at Darling Point.
This Letter offers sympathy to its
former writer “Vandorian,” whose
brother, Col. Herbert James Cox-Taylor,
died last week in Tasmania following an
operation for appendicitis. In the days
of his captaincy he was noted for
his fine figure and his dancing. Then
the social life of Sydney centred in
the Victoria Barracks, and his wedding
(he married a daughter of Colonel Spald-
ing) was one of the military events of
Sydney.
With a full set of pomps and gauds
Isabel Selwyn King became Mrs. Frank
Simpson, of Gunawarra station, Gular-
gambone, within St. Mark’s at Darling
Point. Padre Hubert Gordon sealed the
transfer with book and blessing, while
the mounting voices of choristers filled the
arched aisles. The flower decorations
were lavish and of great beauty, and
every pew had its posy of belladonna lily
and tuberose. Softest ivory satin scattered
with pearls shimmered on the bride. Her
long train fell from the shoulders, and
from a coronet of tulle leaves foamed
the usual tulle cascade. Jill Cargill,
Patsy Dangar and Mary Waddel
’maided, gold tinging their graceful
frocks and the water-lilies they carried.
Later Mulabinda, the Edgecliff home ot
the Selwyn Kings, overflowed with guests
and good cheer.
As this Letter greets you the contents
of Tudor, one of Sydney’s nice old homes
at Elizabeth Bay, are being put to the
hammer. Tudor, built by a prosperous
wine and spirit merchant, later became
the property of J. C. Williamson ; then
it was the home of the Christian family
Just about the end of the war, F. u.
Sargood bought it as a wedding gift lot
his bride, the widow of Captain Antill.
who had been before her first marriage 1
Miss Christian. Now, a widow for the
second time, Mrs. Sargood lives at
Bowral. Her only son (an Antill) was
married recently.
That our ingredients were the best in
the world but our cooking of them let’ l
much to be desired was the opinion oi
tennis-star Cochet, who with his wife let'
last week by the Monterey for Maon-
land. Our raw materials are good—none
better —but cookery as a fine art is just
beginning to progress. When the draw-
ing-room has developed a good-maid an
good-cook consciousness there will be a
smoothing out of the domestic-sen ic-
problem. Then the employer will grapp
the reliable maid, the excellent chef
her with hooks of steel, all houses o
the well-to-do will be built with
servants’ quarters, and the era of t
family retainer will set in.


sonl door
only * *sr*
iT°m p eace
the ciW; s pte-
and qu'® lnesS P
Vai ' S ',w situated
IdeaUv p a rk
ranetevutod
\ *«SSiS? K
1 BV/1361.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1966 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARY JANE LEE Petitioner
And THOMAS PATRICK LEE Respon-
dent.
TO THOMAS PATRICK LEE late of Main
Road Wombarra South Coast.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY JANE
LEE has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-ninth day of April a.d. 1936
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Third day of February, a.d.
1936.
For the Registrar,
C. A. H. HARMES,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SAORSTAT El RE ANN.
TO DENIS TOBIN brother of Michael Tobin
late of Farranfore Carrow in the County of
Kerry Irish Free State Police Pensioner de-
ceased or his children. —PURSUANT to an
order of the High Court of Justice Irish Free
State in a Matter and a Cause Michael Tobin
deceased Lorcan G. Sherlock v. the Attorney-
General and by Order Denis Tobin the above-
named Denis Tobin brother of Michael -Tobin
deceased or if he is dead his children are on
or before the 22nd day of April 1936 required
to enter and prove their claims at the Central
Office Law Courts Dublin or in default thereof
they may be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said order. Wednesday the
29th day of April 1936 at the Examiner’s
Office Law Courts Dublin is appointed for the
hearing and adjudicating on the claims. Dated
this 22nd day of January 1936. (Signed)
JOHN HEALY, Examiner. THOMAS EARLY,
39 Upper O’Connell Street, Dublin, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff, Administrator.
Melbourne
Chatter
From a bride’s point of view gift-
parties are part of the fun of getting
married, for every paper parcel is a
pleasant surprise and everybody is tree
with good wishes and felicitations. Betty
Journeaux’s bridge-cwm-kitchen-tea for
Pat Thwaites was a super-success, for by
a lucky chance no gifts were duplicated.
Thus there were no awkward compari-
sons between one saucepan larger than
another, one egg-whisk with two whirls
and another with only one; also, all the
kitchen utensils complied with a steel-
and-green color-scheme, which pleased
Pat mightily, for green is to be the pre-
dominating note in her furnishings.
Mrs. Journeaux’s gift to the guest of
honor was a roomy green cake-tin which
contained an apron embroidered not with
conventional lazy-daisies and “worm”-
roses, but with “Gordon” stitched in
green across the front. Gordon Chal-
lingsworth, who to-day (12th) becomes
a bridegroom, dissembled his joy, if any,
but Pat was delighted at her original
kitchen accessory. Mrs. Tom Oehr, Jean
Crapp, Joan Kirton, Joyce Wilson and
Dorothy Eckersall were a few of those
present.
Given away by her father and married
with the help of her uncle, the Rev.
Westley, who assisted the Rev. Deasey,
May Kernot walked up the aisle of
Christ Church, Geelong, to meet J. H. G.
Vollum. The bridal garment of tulle
floating over ivory satin broke into frothy
wavelets below the kneeline. Betty
Kernot attended in tea-rose-pink net over
a rustling taffeta foundation. The gown
was snugly gathered to the ’maid’s neck
with a rouleau twist of taffeta, and an-
other twist, an echo of the same idea,
made a swathed halo band for her hair.
The bride carried tiger-lilies and the
’maid deep-red roses, gladioli and early
dahlias. Ken Kernot was best man, and
Evelyn Hurst, Keith Stoddart, Ray Bird-
sey and Campbell Storrer ushered the
guests up the aisle.
The engagement is announced of
Pauline Fleetwood-Smith, of Stawell, to
Gerard J. Mornane, of Campbell’s Bridge.
Pauline is the only sister of L. O’B. Fleet-
wood-Smith, the Test cricketer. Educated
at Genazzano Convent, Kew, she has been
active in every social and philanthropic
movement in Stawell, and at present is
joint secretary of the Blind Institute’s
auxiliary and a life governor of the in-
stitute. For some time she has been
secretary of the golf and tennis clubs,
and is a playing member of both. Her
fiance, the youngest son of the late
Michael Mornane, a Melbourne solicitor,
owns Wimmera Park, which is 14 miles
from Stawell. He is vice-president of the
Stawell A.T.C. and chairman of the Wim-
mera district branch of the Pastoralists’
Association.
Usually the arty and the highbrow pre-
dominate at the Athenaeum exhibitions.
Last week the Shell Co.’s poster show
attracted a noticeably different collection
of people—there was only a slight whiff
of petrol, but business acumen and
organising ability were present in large
chunks. G. F. Taylor delivering his brief
speech was an example of the intelligent
businessman of the present generation—
no fiddling with his hands, no manner-
isms, no frills; he said what he had to
say and sat down again. Knight James
Barrett performed the opening before
packing his suitcase and going off for a
holiday among the koalas and penguins
at Phillip Island.
Most nations of the world were repre-
sented among the posters. The airways
ads. were particularly stimulating. Not
all of them were in color; the South
African Airways poster got its effect
through sepia tones. Bengal advertised
itself in jungle-swamp-green; Central
Indian railways with some brightly
colored feathered folk and “Wise Birds
Live in the Country.” The pink buds of
a tulip-tree drew the eye towards Switzer-
land, and an impression of skyscrapers
sent a thought across the Pacific. Prob-
ably the simplest but one of the most
effective posters was for Niirburg Ziga-
retten, the cigarettes thrown into such
vivid relief on a cloth background that
one could almost smell the tobacco.
Dr. Ran Mathew, of Cairns, must be
pleased that' last week is over, for the
strain of meeting brand-new relatives and
friends of his fiancee gave him a chronic
hot feeling round the collar. There are
so many Smiley girls that Dr. Mathew
is still confused about who’s who among
his sisters-in-law, though most of them
do something, such as secretarial work,
advertising and the children’s-pages type
of journalism ; thus with practice he will
be able to fix them in his mind accord-
ing to their jobs.
The first party for Clare and her
fiance was given by Mr. and Mrs. Brian
Hogan Taylor (until a few months ago
Mrs. Taylor was Jean Smiley). It was
cocktails, and very jolly. The guest list
was crammed with Smileys and Gardners,
and Dr. Mathew acquitted himself well
with his speech. The wedding on Satur-
day happened with neither bridal tulle
nor bridesmaids, and only “families”
present. Clare met her medico in Cairns,
where she ran a pharmacy for a year or
two, so that when she goes back to
North Queensland as a bride there will
be lots of old friends to say welcome
home.
Here is a Ronald Esler portrait of
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Beauchamp’s elder
daughter Margaret, whose interests at
present are centred in furniture, furnish-
ings and trousseau for her marriage with
Clive Wallace Smith. Miss Beauchamp,
who had a trip to England last year, is
at present wearing—together with other
things, of course —the coat of healthy
suntan which she acquires every summer.
Simplicity of emotional expression,
melody and definite rhythm are the
essentials of a popular song, according
to Dudley Glass, who was invited to
make a speech at the Legacy Club
luncheon, and gave a talk on music, illus-
trated by songs old and new from many
countries. Mr. Glass, who is off this
week to England via Singapore, is a
writer and composer of musical plays ;
his latest book Australian Fantasy will
be published during the next few months.
His last effort before leaving Australia
was the film “Song of Australia,” for
which he wrote the scenario, lyrics and
music. This film is an ambitious venture,
for it is much longer than the usual
scenic-educational reel. Mr. Glass, who
made friends with some of the abo.
actors at rehearsals, regrets that he will
not be on the spot for the actual
shooting.
* Travellers return from the Orient with
all sorts of adventurous tales, but flying
seldom figures on their schedules. Ships,
trains and cars are the usual mode of
transport for sightseers. The young Mac
Falkiners, enjoying their honeymoon in
Asiatic countries, were exceptions, for,
owing to student riots and the disorgani-
sation of the train service, they caught a
’plane from Peiping to Shanghai.
Their aerial story from China is a re-
minder that an Australian, Garnet Malley,
who learnt to fly at Richmond (N.S.W.)
as a “Saturday-afternoon”' member of
the citizen forces, is now Air-Commander
of the Southern Army of China. Mr.
Malley’s success at getting a job in China
was a stroke of luck. He took up flying
as a hobby, and never expected to earn
his living at it. He gets a good salary,
and, according to Air Force officers at
headquarters, his ranking in the Chinese
Air Force must by now be something
equivalent to Air Vice-Marshal. He and
his bright, attractive wife can be run to
earth at the Sharmeen Club in Canton.
Here is Jean Robertson, who has been
appointed publicity officer in Australia
for the London publishing firm of Hutch-
inson. Miss Robertson has recently been
to Tasmania and N.S.W. in connection
with her work. She is a daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Edward Robertson, of Kew, is
an Arts graduate and has tried her
hand at all kinds of sport, including
fencing. A Broothorn camera caught this
glimpse.
The Lady Mayoress has launched an
appeal for funds for the Queen Victoria
Hospital, which is run for women en-
tirely by women. It started in a small
way 40 years ago, and has grown beyond
all expectations, buildings and plant
being kept up-to-date as the scope of its
work increases every year. Probably
nowhere in the British Empire is there
such a large institution run by women.
J. V. Fairbairn has announced his in-
tention of flying to England per mail
’plane and returning as his own pilot.
He has done a good deal of flying, and
last year encircled Australia by air. Mrs.
Fairbairn, who is tall, dark and always
well-dressed, is saying good-bye to Mt.
Elephant, Derrinallum, for a few months.
She will meet her husband in England,
but her route will be along the usual
mail boat tracks.
Last week a sale took place at Wooloo-
manata, the historical old home of the
Fairbairn family at the foot of the You
Yangs. Bidders came from far afield,
parking their cars on the station property
and along the adjoining roads. J. V.
Fairbairn arrived in his own ’plane,
using one of the paddocks near the home-
stead as a landing ground. Owing to
the crowds it was difficult for anyone to
get a glimpse of the things, much less
examine them. Sightseers rather than
buyers predominated, and the sum
realised was about £2OOO. Among the
pieces auctioned were many antiques, a
dining-room suite which brought in £3OO,
period chairs and tables, carpets (a Per-
sian carpet sold for £3O), curtains and
personal treasures which all went under
the hammer. It is sad to think that nine
months ago Mr. and Mrs. Pat Fairbairn
were enjoying everything that life has to
offer; they died together when their
’plane crashed.
It must be a strange experience for a
mother and her just-grown-up daughter
to meet after a parting of 17 years. Mar-
garet Jewell (Mrs. Burridge), who is a
professional singer, has been away from
her native Australia since the war, when
she went to South Africa. She didn’t
mean to leave her daughter Beryl for
so long, but engagements offered in Eng-
land, and many times the singer post-
poned her return to this part of the
world. Margaret Jewell, accompanied by
an Australian pianist, Anne Williams,
sang from 8.8. C. stations during Mel-
bourne’s centenary celebrations. She has
come home to find her daughter not only
a useful accompanist but a pianist of
promise.
The Emily McPherson Institute ap-
proves of exchange of teachers. Mrs. M.
Joske, who is acquiring new ideas and
methods at Berridge House in London,
has been replaced by Margaret Read, a
member of the National Society’s Train-
ing College at Berridge House. Miss
Read is interested to see how young Aus-
tralians are trained in domestic arts ; in
addition she will act as the Emily’s senior
teacher of cookery.
Youth is blamed for a number of
things, but there is no conceit like that
of an old man. Recently a Melbourne
visitor pausing for a few days in a sleepy
little Tasmanian town met and talked
with an 83-year-old inhabitant. He, find-
ing her a sympathetic listener, offered to
pay her 10s. if she would find him “a
nice girl for a wife.” He had already
had four wives who between them had
produced 23 children. His qualifications
for No. 5, who must be “someone young
and healthy, to do the work,” was a
“snug little home with a pension and no
leaks in the roof.”
The Little Theatre was so bucked with
its Christmas cocktail party that it will
put on its dancing shoes on Feb. 15 at
the L.T.A.V. clubhouse, Kooyong.
Though the footwear for the occasion
will be conventional, the other dress
accessories need not be, and men may
leave boiled shirts neatly folded at home.
According to secretaries Shirley Gold-
man and Rene Mitchell, the modest sub-
scription “includes eats, etc.” —which
sounds too good to be true.
At the teachers’ summer school dis-
cussions arose in the natural philosophy
section about the fluctuations every year
in the number of passes in physics and
other public examination subjects. This
marked fluctuation, discouraging to both
teachers and pupils, is attributed to
changes in the standard of papers and
in the demands of the different exam-
iners. The only advice the teachers can
give the children is to stuff all they can
into their heads. The children say “Cut
out exams.”
The new King’s staff:
The new King, in accordance with custom,
will doubtless take his own staff to the Palace.
All the chief members have toured the whole
British Commonwealth. There is Halsey,
Comptroller, and for 15 years the King’s rep-
resentative with H.R.H. on his tours, who went
through Ladysmith with the Naval Brigade,
was in the Iron Duke at Jutland and com-
manded the Australian Navy in 1918-20. There
is Godfrey Thomas, a dark, pleasant realist,
tenth in a line of baronets; there is Trotter,
a lieut.-col. of the Grenadiers, who won a
string of decorations in the war and com-
manded the British Instructional Mission to
U.S.A. in 1917; and there is Piers Legh, the
only sprig of the peerage in the lot, who mar-
ried one of the Polks, of Tennessee. All
these were with Edward P. in Australia.
There is one later addition who is sure to go
over—E. H. Fielden, A.F.C., “chief air pilot
and extra equerry.” For Edward VIII. is the
first King of England to keep his own aero-
planes—he has Dragons and Percivals, the
latter designed by an Australian. And Claud
Hamilton, son of the Duke of Abercorn, who
came here in 1920 and who has many relations
in Australia, but who was later transferred to
the King’s staff, will most likely have a good
job.


Flawless materials, delicately
wrought by master craftsmen, give
Stuart Crystal the peculiar depth and
brilliance found in no other glass.
English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Stuart
Crystal
LONDON’S LEADING
HOTELS
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger Lifts.
Garages, Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Running Water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Vegetarians
catered for if desired. BRIDGE, BIL-
LIARDS, TABLE TENNIS and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single, from 4 guineas.
Double, from 7 guineas.
Tele: Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 Lancaster (late, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its new Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 34 guineas Single,
64 guineas Double.
Tele: Padd. 6061.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8022.
Accommodation for 60 guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8431.
Accommodation for 00 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as Bed-sitting Rooms. Owing
to their popularity you are advised to
secure accommodation—if possible—in
advance. Terms: Single, from 3 guineas.
Double, from 5 guineas.
The above hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
r 1
=■•> 4 i /
* *"*
mm.
*
m
£ : j§g' f||s
■
iJLs
~...
II
V
Amritsar, the Golden Temple of the Sikhs.
It is well worth breaking your journey when
travelling to England or returning to Australia
and seeing India, its cities, its monuments,
its people.
Full information and inclusive rates may be
obtained from:—
Messrs. THOS. COOK & SON LTD.
Berkeley Street, Piccadilly, London, W.l, England.
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney, N.S.W.
269 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
OR FROM
THE CENTRAL PUBLICITY OFFICER,
Indian State Railways, Old Secretariat, Delhi.
THE MANAGER, INDIAN RAILWAYS BUREAU,
57 Haymarket,
London, S.W.I, England.
38 East 57th Street,
New York, U.S.A.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Hotel Adelphi put on its first
dinner-dance to a full complement of
diners at rose-in-silver-vase-decked tables.
There was dancing between courses, but
the majority waited till after the feast
before taking exercise in the ballroom.
Mrs. A. W. Jacoby was there with an
intriguing flounce on the train of her
rich black satins. Mrs. Dick Stawell
flung a long lace cape over her blush-
pink charmeuse, and diamente glittered
on Mrs. Charles Henning’s black mar-
celle. Mrs. Rupert Solomon allied grey-
spotted net sleeves with grey crepe lor-
raine; a jewelled belt clasped Diana
Davy’s snowy crepes ; Mrs. Harold Boas
flipped a train of fine black lace, and
Mrs. Tim Morrison brushed a quantity
of , gold on her black Chantillies.
Twenty-six gymnasts, suitably clad,
formed a double-decker arch outside
Wesley Church when the bridal couple
emerged from the Evans-Hickey wed-
ding. Edna’s white brocaded faille satin
was flanked with full elbow-length
sleeves, point-panelled as to bodice,
fastened at the back with a row of tiny
buttons, and flared into a fan-shaped
train. Amy Wilson followed with shirrs
and godets worked into her dawn-pink
georgettes, and a garland of dahlias and
tiger-lilies held to the fore. Trainbearer
Dulcie Buckley had a mediaeval cut to
her pink chiffons and a crown of rose-
buds on her head.
Crabbing parties are the thing just
now on city foreshore, suburban bays and
the upper reaches of the river ; but crab-
bing technique is changing. Of yore
Aunt Agatha and Tiny Tim were any-
one’s equal in tying the lump of ancient
meat to the end of the length of string,
throwing it in, and, when the tug came,
slowly, slowly dragging the prey to the
waiting net. Now the art is becoming
specialised ; stalwarts don their bathers,
tie a bag to their backs, slip into the
water and stalk the creatures as they
scuttle sideways to evade the ominous
swoop of the net. Timing the swoop is
the secret of success ; the amateur can
comfortably manage a bag of fifty per
hour, but one six-foot-four specialist
recorded 138 in fifty minutes.
Joy Malloch’s bride-to-be parties were
crashed into one week’s breathless round.
Lesley Everett, fairylike in pastel floral
chiffon, started proceedings with a china
tea at her home in Mt. Lawley, where
the guest of honor appeared in pink-and-
black plaid taffetas. Zoe Weir’s kitchen-
tea took place at the June Elizabeth,
with the hostess in a green-spotted
jumper suit and Joy looking trim in a
white linen suit. The Adelphi was the
rendezvous for Mrs. Theo Lynn’s
kitchen-tea and for Phyllis Malloch’s
party in the stage lounge.
Josephine Temperley had the box seat
at a series of functions arranged in honor
of her approaching marriage to Ted
Hayes, of Northam. Margaret Paton put
on a morning-tea ; Tynka Salmon poured
cocktails; Betty Wood set up bridge-
tables at her home; Jean Smith brewed
a pot of tea at the Palace, and Sheila
Hayes, who is to be bridesmaid, was yet
another hostess.
To welcome Mrs. M. Langslowe, of
Melbourne, who is visiting cousin Mar-
jorie Stoddart, of Perth, Violet and
Mavis Holmes gave a morning-tea at the
Esplanade. Mrs. Langslowe and Violet
Edwards were joint guests of honor at
a bridge-party given by Mrs. S. J.
Edwards at her home in Claremont.
Mrs. Theo Ambrose, with cloudy black
chiffon as a setting for her white hair, in-
vited some thirty to forty guests to drink
a farewell cup of tea with Mrs. Claude
Crocker and daughter Margaret, who are
off to England. Clare and Beulah Holm
gave a farewell for Shirley Harford, who
is booked for Sydney, and Lesley and
Eila Vincent, who leave with their
mother for Colombo, shared honors at
Mrs. Ken Cameron’s gathering.
A wedding booked for the near future
is that of Molly, second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. H. D. Pell, and Jim, scion of
the H. A. Mitchells, of Donnybrook.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Bright sunshine brought out a big
crowd for the races at Morphettville,
Chairman H. Allan Morris and his wife
being away in M.L., Miss Pat Richard-
son acted as hostess at luncheon and
afternoon-tea, wearing a tailored suit of
beige sheer crepe with a collar of navy
taffeta and a navy hat with wide brim.
Dressing was on mourning lines. Mrs.
S. J. Jacobs’s black self-patterned maro-
cain went with a hat of black straw, Mrs.
F. A. Tennant chose black georgette,
Mrs. J. H. Morish was one of the wearers
of. white linen and Mrs. W. PA. Lap-
thorne went magpie with a white maro-
cain suit, a black hat and a blouse of
black silk. The Moulden lady’s white
marocain was topped with a large black
straw hat.
It is risky here, even in midsummer,
to arrange a garden party at' night, but
the Toe H entertainment held in the
floodlit grounds of E. W. Holden's
home at Kent Town had luck. A stage
had been erected on the spacious lawn,
and a varied programme was presented,
including a cinema travelogue. Dancing
was also enjoyed to the strains of an
orchestra, and a buffet supper was served.
A presentation was made by T. E. Barr
Smith (the Australian Commissioner)-
a travelling-case to area secretary W. A.
Cave, who is to leave in the Mooltan for
London next month. Vernon Halliday
organised the programme. Mr. and Mrs.
Holden received the guests, who num-
bered about 300.
A farewell afternoon-tea was given at
the Piccadilly by Mrs. A. H. Riggs, of
Gawler, to wish bon voyage to Misses
B. Riggs and E. Verco, who left in the
Ormonde on a trip to England. Tea was
served in the Willow Room, decked with
pink phlox and gladioli. Among the
guests were the Ritchie lady and Isobel.
Jean Hayward, who is travelling with
her mother, Mrs. S. J. Laidlaw, in India,
has announced her engagement to
Edward Sunderland Lewis, of Rangoon.
An unusual surprise party was sprung
by the many friends of Mrs. A. Gartreli
Pritchard, when to the skirling of bag-
pipes 40 guests arrived at her home at
Millswood to welcome home Mrs. Prit-
chard and her daughters Jeanne and
Beth, who have just returned from a holi-
day overseas. Among the items on the
programme was a gramophone record
which Mrs. Pritchard had made in Lon-
don, sending Christmas greetings to her
family. Jeanne Pritchard danced a
Scotch reel in costume to the bagpipes,
played by Andrew Little, who also pre-
sented Mrs. Pritchard with a scroll of
welcome signed by all present.
Joan Brooke arrived in the Nieuw
Holland after having spent a holiday at
Kamunting, F.M.S., as the guest of Mr.
and Mrs. Malcolm A. Brooke, and latterly
in West Siam, where her brother has
been appointed manager of Panguga
River Tin Concessions, Ltd.
TASMANIA.
At the Launceston Cup meeting dress-
ing was subdued in tone. Chairman Dr.
George Clemons and his wife entertained
in the committee’s and members’ rooms,
she in black with sequinned belt, black
hat and black earrings. The Mayoress
was in black-and-white under a black
coat; Mrs. Andrew Raeburn was smart
in stripes of black and white. There was
much braiding about, and navy blue and
black were much favored.
Among overseas visitors to the Speck
is Mrs. M. R. Hale, Sussex, who is put-
ting in some time with her sister, Mrs.
Eric Jones, The Grove, Glenorchy.
N. H. Roff, new head of Launceston
Church Grammar School, has arrived to
take up his duties.
Sheila Keating, daughter of Mrs. and
the late P. J. Keating, Harrington House.
Hobart, and H. T. Mackey, Westburv,
announce their engagement.
Dr. and Mrs. G. H. Hogg, with young
Dr. Tim Hogg and his bride, have re-
turned from England.
All Hobart seemed to be down at the
wharves when the Ormonde sailed, a s
such a big contingent went in her. Mrs-
Cecil Muschamp and her two babies.
Mary Sharland, Cora Mosey and her
friend Miss Wilson, from the North, and
Mrs. Hume (Longford), all for London,
were passengers, together with Miss Stil-
well and Sheila Parsons, for Colombo,
and various others, including Mrs. Alan
Roberts, for mainland ports.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice'Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
O WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Williami”: I regret to have to add
my testimony to that of other Bulletin
scribes concerning the unhealthy condi-
tion of the Queensland climate. My
maternal grandmother, when she was 90,
fell out of a bus in Gympie. Except for
a fractured skull and an injured
spine she wasn’t much hurt, yet, owing
to a constitution weakened through liv-
ing all her life at various places along
the coast between Gympie and Cairns,
she lingered for only five years after the
accident. Stunted and enervated by the
tropical heat she did not marry until she
was 13, and her family of 10, all born in
Queensland, was left undiminished to
mourn her early end. The whole family
promises to reach maturity, as the eldest
daughter, who went to N.Q. in her
twenties, is now nearly 90 ; and the baby
boy, a stripling of 65, was recently
reported to be in good health, except for
an attack of gold-fever. As a result of
this he had run off into the ranges of
the Tableland to search for a reef.
* * * *
“Pleuro”: Interested people are trying
to raise a bit of a stir at Gayndah (S.Q.)
because the stock inspector’s car allow-
ance has been stopped. What does the
fatted civil service expect next? I can
remember the time, not so long ago,
when no cars were used in the Govern-
ment service. The work was done then,
and done every bit as efficiently as it is
now —if not better. Further, in those
days, though the stock numbers were
greater, I don’t suppose there was more
than one stock inspector to every three
now.
* * * *
“Bisi”: The death of Jack Evelyn
Sabine, blown to pieces at Eastwood
(N.S.W.), recalls that when, in 1924, Ted
Briggs (now Professor E. A. Briggs, of
the Sydney ’Varsity) visited the mainland
of New Guinea adjoining the northern
Dutch territory, he found a companion
in Sabine, a Queensland ex-soldier.
They adventured in bow-and-arrow
country, the inhabitants of which were
in the Stone Age, hardly a steel imple-
ment having penetrated from the coast.
The explorers were shot at frequently.
When Sabine received word in 1925 that
the young men of Wapi were prepared
to leave their land en masse to “recruit”
with the white man so that their people
might have steel implements, he pressed
over the dividing range again, and in a
few weeks had obtained several hundred
Wapis for the Expropriation Board’s
plantations, a feat which has never been
excelled. After that, when the Expro.
Board sold the first group of German
plantations he purchased Gunanur, near
Kokopo (New Britain). Between terms
of planting, prospecting and recruiting,
he trained racehorses for the New Guinea
Cup and raised poultry.
* ❖ ifc *
“80P”: A Queenslander, Professor
Marshall Allan, is to deliver the Anne
Mackenzie oration at the Australian In-
stitute of Anatomy at Canberra on March
3. An old Brisbane Grammar School
boy, the prof, teaches obstetrics and
gynaecology at Melbourne University.
He served with the R.A.M.C. in Mespot
during the war, and afterwards was in
private practice in Brisbane for a time.
The oration was delivered in 1933 by
Ray Cilento, now Queensland’s health
chief.
»i» %
“Nagheer”: A packet of tourist blurb
about the beauties of the glorious Barrier
Reef has been making me smile. The
real Barrier is 100 miles or so east from
where most of them go. One gets a
first glimpse of its inner border when
coming abreast of Hinchinbrook Island,
north of Townsville, and 600 miles from
the Reef’s southern end. It is Bramble
Reef, scene of the tragic wreck of the
Maria in March, 1871, between half-tides
an uninteresting stretch of dark-greyish
sea-bottom. The genuine article is no
string of tropic isles set in a satin sea.
Where the Pacific Ocean thunders end-
lessly upon a chain of submarine parapets
built by a tiny sea anemone and topped
by a little sea plant is no place for city
tourists and turtle-riding in dashing
bathers. But as a sea marvel and a
marine biologist’s Elysium it is one of
the wonders of the world. All the coral
of the rest of the world could be built
into the Barrier without extending it an-
other 100 miles.
* * * si:
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane has had a lot
of trouble over its town halls. The pres-
ent million-pound one is a more or less
accepted white elephant, but now the old
one in Queen-street is giving trouble. It
appears that, although none of the
“Cheer up, Mr. Wholagan! I've known cases like yours to linger for
hours.”
numerous municipal entourage took any
interest in it after removing to the new
quarters, other folk did, with the result
that most of the cedar doors, door-frames,
windows and window-sills have been re-
moved bodily by persons unknown.
Lessees complained to Bumbledom
without avail. The last shock came when
they tried to start the big clock on the
facade, and found that somebody had
souvenired the works. Even portions of
the roof are missing now, and it is feared
that some morning the tenants will arrive
to find only a vacant block where once
stood the home of civic oratory.
sfc sji ❖ #
“Sa Tiko”: The White Australia
policy means a lot of things, but fore-
most it means a fair standard of living.
In New Caledonia, Japanese bicycles, with
bell complete, can be bought for 30s.
Coming brand-new from the factory, the
vehicles look as good as the best, and
apparently give satisfaction to the user.
But the knockout blow is landed by the
brewers of rice-beer. This is slightly
less alcoholic than the Australian stimu-
lant, but it sparkles and looks as well.
The taste is excellent, and there is no
resultant headache, even after large
quantities have been consumed. It is
retailed at Hd. a long sleever.
* * * *
“Gouge”: The increased areas being
put under rubber this year will be wel-
come to the Papua Administration,
which has done so much to foster the
industry, and should convince Canberra
that “preferential twopence” was a wise
measure. Should the twopence be fixed
for a definite period there will be a mild
boom in rubber-planting in Papua and
in parts of the Mandate.
V $ 't*
“X.T.”: I am all for big-game fishing.
I used to think that it was merely hard
work, but a groper off the mouth of
the McArthur cured me. I was merely
an innocent bystander washing my middle
in about four feet of clear water when
my blackboy gave a wild yell and left
for the horizon. As I turned to watch
his departure, wondering gently whether
it was sun or debbil-debbil that had got
him, I saw something rising in the water
which looked like a cloud. Then it
turned into a fish—he seemed about
three yards round and 25 feet long. The
water was so clear that I could see every
inch of him, and he went round me in
a slow circle about 10 feet away and then
slid off down the current. I stood stock-
still, not from prudence, but from fright.
I attribute my escape to the fact that
Jacky Jacky smelt more strongly than I
did, and that the enemy followed his scent
like a hound. I thought Jacky might
have mentioned the visitor before he left,
but there have been so many groper
fatalities round the
Gulf of Carpentaria
that he was taking
no risk. And, any-
way, I was only a
white.
“Sikes’s Understudy”: Till lately we’ve
not thought much of the shoplifter in our
profession, but Brisbane performances
show that, with good organisation, it is
a branch capable of profitable develop-
ment. During the Christmas rush one
gang got away with over £lOOO worth
from the retail stores. It worked in
squads of three, two to keep the shop-
assistant busy while Philgarlic gathered
selections of the best into bags and
an elaborate system of pockets. Unload-
ing these in a waiting car for transmis-
sion to a central depot, the squad was
ready for duty again. In ordinary day
work, if a lifter is copped, a signal en-
ables a fast car to get to his or her place
and shift any swag before uniforms
arrive. The “piteous tale” lady is now
at a discount with managers since one
pleaded with tears that she would lose
a good job if prosecuted over the trum-
pery article she admitted she had stolen,
but yielded 10 valuable silk garments in
her undies when frisked by a police-
woman. Another lady got pinched for
a similar offence half an hour after a
softhearted beak had let her off with a
nominal fine.
v 'k "k
“Captain Pintle”: “H.H.” (B. 29/1/’36)
understates Captain Carpenter’s experi-
ence with the Dutch East Indies authori-
ties. His ship, the Costa Rica Packet,
a whaler owned by James Burns, was
seized at Amboyna in the ’eighties for an
alleged act of piracy in picking up a
derelict prahu, from which his crew took
a bottle of arrack. Under the sixteenth-
century methods which the Dutch then
employed, the ship’s company was very
badly treated. Burns took it up as a
matter of international law, and, with
Dibbs’s help, induced the British Gov-
ernment to make diplomatic representa-
tions to the Dutch Crown. Law pro-
ceedings followed ; Burns and Carpenter
were compensated, and the Dutch altered
their administrative methods from
sixteenth- to nineteenth-century in short
order. The Costa Rica Packet still forms
a classical case in international marine
law.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
During the dog days, Brisbane’s parks
are covered with citizens seeking a spot
of coolness. They come when stifling
shop and office are closed, and.rest on the
green grass for an hour or two. Pres-
ently there will be no grass for them to
rest on. The Greater Brisbane Council
already has sheared a large portion off
Newstead Park for the erection of a
wharf; now it is trying to swap the
frontage of Wickham and Observatory
Parks to the Government in return for
the sites now occupied by the old rail-
way offices and city watchhouse build-
ings erected in the dark ages. The idea
is to extend Adelaide-street to North
Quay.
The City Council intends to
acquire a park at Colmslie
down the river—the old quaran-
tine station used to be there —
for £llOO. This will be useful
—to people with motor-launches,
motor-cars and taxi fares.
The Children’s Playground at
Paddington has acquired two
tennis courts, and arrangements
to provide a gymnasium are
under way. Jean Harmsworth,
graduate of the College of
Physical Education, Sydney,
takes over the job as director
of the girls’ section this month.
Dr. and Mrs. Alex. Inglis,
who were married at the
Brompton Oratory in January,
arrive by the Orontes on Feb.
17 to make their home in Brisbane. Mrs.
Inglis was Phyllis Bayley, of Strathfield,
Sydney.
Lady Samuels, whose son Edward is
bursar in London for Toe H, is in Bris-
bane on a world tour, renewing contact
with war-time friends.
Newest engagement is that of Irene
(“Dodie”) Darvall, daughter of the G. F.
Darvalls, of Clayfield, to John Arthur,
of Perth (W.A.), only son of Mrs. R.
Arthur, of Brisbane. Mrs. Arthur
creates lovely pottery bowls and vases.
Mrs. P. L. Day, packing for a tour of
the world which she will make with her
husband and son, has been farewelled
impressively for the last fortnight. The
Yeronga Bridge Circle, with Mrs. H.
Magee doing the honors in the absence
of Mrs. Ernest Culpin—who is wrestling
with ’flu at the moment —handed her a
navy silk umbrella, neatly mono-
grammed. Mrs. J. Brownlie Henderson
also passed the tea and oat-cakes in
honor of Mrs. Day.
Rhoda Felgate is organising a new'
amateur group called the “Twelfth
Night” Players. On the twelfth of each
month they will stage a performance ;
and if the twelfth happens to be Sunday
it will be a religious or miracle play.
Dr. and Mrs. Val McDowall and
daughter Jan entertained a group of re-
lations and connections at a cheery party
for Joyce Cory, of Dalveen, who marries
Bill Warren, a McDowall relative, this
month in Warwick.
Many motor-cyclists and motor-vehicle
drivers have no consideration for sick
people in hospital. Two hospitals at
opposite ends of the town are subjected
all day and most of the night to hoots,
toots and the screeching of mistreated
gears.


THIS SEAL ,
IS YOUR PROMOTION !
This Seal spells Security, for it
is the Seal of the Australian
Valve Merchants’ Association.
Valves bearing the Association’s
Seal are fully licensed under
Australian patents and protect
you against patent infringe-
ments.
The latest and best' develop-
ments made possible by exten-
sive research of the World’s
foremost radio engineers are
embodied in valves bearing this
Seal.
Protect yourself and your cus-
tomer —see that the valves you
buy bear the Association s Seal.
% w
A* TH IS VALVE HAS \
BEEN LICENSED '
UNDER VARIOUS
AUSTRALIAN ZZ
PATENTS FOR USE
IN BROADCAST
IN BROADCAST
y> RECEIVERS
. ***** *
ADVERTISEMENT OF THE AUSTRALIAN VALVE MERCHANTS’ ASSOCIATION ,
i>l
Vs
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
, . ■ „ ill
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. ■
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES'
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA435 •
RADIO NEWS
A FREQUENCY METER-MONITOR.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Not only is a frequency meter desirable, but in these days of exacti-
tude for experimenters it is imperative as the key to correct operation
of any experimental radio station. By combining the functions of a
frequency meter and station monitor in one, the use is greatly extended.
Although the instrument here described
may be considered as something of use
only to the radio experimenter con-
cerned with transmission, there is another
side to the question. The fact that short-
wave listeners are taking increasing
interest in the activities of experimental
transmitters is shown in the mailbag.
Since the public started using dual-, all-
wave and short-wave receivers, an ama-
teur ’phone has only to go on the air
Fig. 1. —Circuit of the frequency meter-monitor, using a
Class-B twin-battery triode valve. R.F.C. is the usual three-
honeycomb s.-w. choke. All values are indicated. L1 and
L2 in text.
for a brief period, particularly in the 20-
metre band, and shoals of reports from
delighted (or otherwise) listeners roll in.
The listener hears much talk of “fre-
quency” and not so much of “wave-
length” in these amateur short-wave
regions, and gets interested. After a
while he finds he would like some
method of checking up on stated fre-
quencies, and wonders what kind of
mystery-box the experimental transmit-
ter uses for his measurements.
The trouble is that many don’t use
any check; but all should do so. A
correctly designed and constructed
frequency-meter presents no difficult
problem, and subsequent calibration is
a matter of checking on standard-
frequency transmissions. Every experi-
mental station not only needs, but for
accuracy must have, a frequency-meter
and a monitor available in the operating-
room at a moment’s notice. The first
tells the story of
just where a signal
is in any of the
amateur bands, and
the second informs
the operator just
what kind of
signal is launched
upon the air from
his transmitter. If
the two functions
are combined in
one matters are
simplified ; and the
combining is
simple enough.
A Class-B battery
valve does a good
job in this com-
bination, and any
of the popular two-
volt types can be
used. These include
the 19, 8240, PM2B
and PM2BA. Of course, if A.C. operation
is desired, the 53- or 6A6-type valve
could be used ; but for all practical pur-
poses a simple battery-powered arrange-
ment fills the bill.
As monitoring is to be considered,
there must be no external leads to bat-
teries, and thus the construction must be
such that the metal box is large enough
to accommodate everything. The size of
the box used in the meter illustrated is
lOin. by lOin. by 7in., with closely fitting
lid. Aluminium is used, and the heavier
the gauge the better. The circuit diagram
explains the essentials, and there are a
few points to consider. A lOOmmfd.
midget variable condenser is used as the
band-setter, and a 35mmfd. midget
variable as the tuner. Both these con-
densers must be of sturdy make, and
Hammarlund types are strongly recom-
mended. No knob is provided for the
band-setter, as, once the position of this
is determined, it must be fixed to pre-
serve calibration. In the meter illustrated
it is provided with a screwdriver-slot on
a shortened spindle, locked in position
and protected by a metal cover on the
panel. A filament-type headphone-jack
is used (insulated from the panel), and
the act of plugging in the headphones
switches on.
As accurate reading of dial indication
is necessary, a special dial was made up
from the usual “back-of-panel” dial of
the Efco AW type. The scale is removed
from the frame and fixed to the panel
with clear duco. A hairline pointer is
fitted to the dial frame (outside the
panel), and, to make reading easier, a
magnifying-glass fitted over this.
This meter works on the harmonic
principle, so that one coil can be made
Fig. 2. —Showing the adapted dial, with
lens for close reading.
serve for the usual amateur bands. As
160 metres is not much used in Aus-
tralia, the 80-metre fundamental serves.
For this, the coil LI is lin. diameter,
with a winding lin. long of 22 enamelled
copper. L 2 is wound on a layer of tape,
with 12 to 15 turns of 30 D.S.C. at the
“earth” end of LI. Reverse connections
of L 2 if oscillation is not present.
An output terminal, insulated from
“earth,” is fitted at one side of the box
Fig. 3. —The aluminium box holds every-
thing. External leads to batteries should
not be used.
for pickup coupling. It is found that a
length of wire, even up to 10ft. long, here
makes no change in frequency, but
merely alters the signal intensity.
Coupling is from the plate of the second
triode, through the ,00025mfd. con-
denser. Connection can be made to
the s.-w. receiver aerial. All wiring
should be done in heavy wire for the
sake of rigidity and preservation of
calibration, and joints must be well and
truly soldered. A 45-volt Ever-Ready
light-duty battery provides the plate
power, and two Ever-Ready C
cells the filament supply. A three-ohm
resistor in series here drops the voltage
to two volts for the valve.
Calibration can be done from har-
monics of local broadcasting stations,
assuming that the broadcasting station
is known to be of accurate frequency;
but this method can be confusing,
Standard-frequency transmissions can be
heard at regular schedules within the
amateur 80-, 40- and 20-metre bands, and,
also, readings can be taken from reliable
experimental stations at known frequen-
cies. Once a reasonable number of
readings is taken, a graph can easily be
plotted in the usual way.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Clearly-spoken French may now be
heard before 6 p.m. daily from a station
on about 24.5 m. Except late at night,
and occasionally during the afternoons,
the French spoken over Radio Coloniale
on the wave-lengths of 25.23 m., 25.6 m.
and 19.68 m. is too indistinct to be fol-
lowed with ease. A transmission in
French on 24.5 m. was first heard by the
writer several months ago. The time was
about midnight, and the station was giv-
ing what appeared to be the same pro-
gramme as Radio Coloniale on 19.68 m.
Subsequent efforts failed to locate any
French station on 24.5 m., though a Rus-
sian was, and still is, frequently heard
’phoning from that dial-position.
That the transmissions in French heard
lately come from Radio Coloniale is
clear beyond doubt, for the call of the
station is regularly given, and the time-
signals correspond exactly to Paris time.
On January 27 a woman announcer was
heard broadcasting news gossip from “Le
Petit Journal.” On January 28 the play-
ing of Massenet’s “Elegie” and Handel’s
“Largo” preceded detailed information
as to the arrangements for the royal
funeral. Usually the transmissions cease
at 6 p.m., after announcements of the
station’s programmes for the next ensuing
period of 12 hours have been given.
Two other stations heard about the
same time every evening are the Ger-
mans DJP (25.3 m.) and DJR (19.55 m.).
The former comes through in good
strength, but the latter is very weak.
They give identical programmes.
A prominent station in the late even-
ings is KAZ, Manila, operating on almost
exactly 30m. (9990 kc.). Its programmes
are typically American.
The congestion on the 31m. band
towards 11 p.m. is now further accentu-
ated by broadcasts from W2XAF,
Schenectady. This station may be recog-
nised either by its own callsign or by
that of WGY, which is relays. On
January 21 it was heard up to 10.45 p.m.,
and then, without any overlapping, its
place was seemingly taken by the station
believed to be LKJI, Jeloy, Norway. This
suggested that the latter might after all
be W2XAF transmitting in a foreign
language. The American broadcast, how-
ever, was definitely stronger and utterly
different in quality. The Norwegian has
a penchant for Scotch airs, and the voice
of its announcer roars you as gently as
a sucking dove.
On January 24 the new Russian station
on 20.5 m. was heard in concert items
which recalled those given in Sydney
some years ago by the Don Cossacks.
The influence, however, of the modern
Soviet school of composers was mani-
fest. Rhythmic staccato shouts, uttered
with extraordinary energy and abandon,
cast a hypnotic spell over the listener
and brought forth boisterous and pro-
longed applause from the Russian audi-
ence.
CQN, Macao (31.5 m.), was heard on
January 27 giving a Chinese play. K
the traditional drama of Japan suggests
the anguish of tortured souls, that of
China conjures up Goya-like visions of
vociferous and demented animals.
The Nirom station YDB (31.32 m.) is
well worth listening to in the evenings>
especially when reception of the Euro-
pean stations is affected by unfavorable
conditions. Its programmes are at least
a change from those of the local stations
3LR, 3ME and 2ME. YDB was one
of the foreigners heard on January 28
relaying the Daventry broadcast of the
funeral of King George. On that occa-
sion also JVN (28.14 m.) was heard fot
over two hours after its usual closing
time, giving its own broadcast of the
funeral. A comparison of the Japanese
broadcast with that of GSF made one
realise to. what an extent the success of
the Daventry transmission was due to
the grave and restrained commentaries
of Howard Marshall. Nothing could
have been more impressive than his de-
scription of the procession as it a P‘
proached St. George’s Chapel, to the


GREATER
ECONOMY IN
OPERATION
WITH
TYPE IC4
TYPE ID4
VALVES
Radio! ron
IC4. .. .A new high gain non-micro- 1D4....A power output pentode of
phonic super-control radio frequency overall higher efficiency than any
pentode. equivalent.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Va've Company Limited
firing of the minute guns, the tolling of
the Sebastopol bell and the inexpressibly
sad strains of the Dead March from
“Saul.”
P.R.W.
Station Description.
VKSRT, Prospect, S.A.,
This station is owned and operated by
Bob Manuel at 59 Gordon-road, Pros-
pect, South Australia, and with rela-
tively low power has recently been put-
ting up a fine performance on long-dis-
tance 20-metre telephony. Stations
worked include HKIZ (Dominican Re-
public), HHSPA (Haiti), VS3AE (Johore)
and ZT6Y (South Africa). VKSRT says:
“Judging by contacts on telephony, sup-
pressor-grid modulation may waste
R.F., but the rest knows where to go!”
The transmitter occupies the top shelf.
It includes 89 tritet, with 40mx V-cut
crystal, and draws 20ma. at 550 volts.
This drives the RK2O directly on 20
metres. Grid bias on the final is by
means of a 45-volt battery, with a 15,000-
ohm grid leak. (The battery alone will
more than give cut-off at IOOOv. on plate.)
The same battery biases the suppressor
for ’phone, and also the grids of the
modulator.
The power supply (below the desk)
uses a 640 volts per side C/T transformer
in a 3/82 bridge rectifier. The output
voltage, after passing through a choke
input filter, is 1050 volts on load. The
low-voltage supply is taken from the
C/T of the transformer and, supplying
the oscillator directly and the screen
of the final through a series resistor,
shows 550 volts.
The receiver shown is a superhet with
crystal filter, the filter circuit being
similar to the Hammarlund Comet Pro.
Below the receiver is the control panel,
carrying all switches and meter, and
below that again is the operating desk,
with home-made automatic key.
VKSRT is a member of the W.1.A.,
S.A. division.
What’s What in Radio.
“4X”: While the average amateur has
learned the value of choke input filters
with mercury vapor tubes it is not usually
realised that the same treatment is desir-
able with ordinary vacuum-type rectifiers.
I recently had occasion to construct a
three-stage amplifier, using type-45 tubes
in the output. As I was desirous of
keeping the heat generated as low as
possible, the pack consisted of a 385-volt
150 milliamp. full-wave-transformer, to-
gether with a 5Z3 rectifier and the usual
Bufd. electrolytics and 30-henry choke.
The total drain of the amplifier was 80
milliamps., so my surprise could be
imagined when after an hour’s operation
the pack was too warm for comfort. An
A.C. meter of 125 milliamps. full-scale
deflection was placed in series with the
first filter condenser, and went hard over.
Suspecting breakdown, a D.C. meter was
also placed in series, but read nothing.
Substituting smaller values of capacity
finally brought the reading down to 120
milliamps, with 2ufd. without serious
drop in voltage. A complete removal
of the input capacity dropped the volt-
age nearly 100 volts, but now the trans-
former showed no signs of heating. As
the A.C. component through the first
condenser will depend on both the volt-
age applied and the load drawn from
the filter, those hams who are using
heavily-loaded 750-volt packs with a
4mfd. input condenser might seriously
consider sacrificing 100 volts or so in
favor of increased rectifier life and a
greater margin of safety.
* * !j( *
A new use has been found for ultra-
short-wave radio. While travelling over
Lake George (Michigan) at 60 miles an
hour an American speed-boat pilot
broadcast from his boat to the judges’
stand. Engineers there were able to hold
a two-way conversation with the speed-
boat.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
(1) I have a transmitter under construction.
Antenna is a tuned Marconi type. A single 45
is to be used as P.A., and it is proposed to
link-couple the P.A. tank to the antenna load-
ing coil, and work thus on 40 and 20 metres.
{Circuit enclosed.) Should I connect the vari-
able condenser in the earth or antenna side of
the coil, or use two condensers, one at each
side ? Capacity required ? (.2) Should the link
couple to the centre
of both coils ? (3)
Would the No. 5
coupler sketched
give better results ?
(4) Would the re-
ceiving doublet in
B. 15 /1 /’36 be of
any use as a trans-
mitting antenna ?
382.
(1) Arrangement
described is work-
able, and quite effi-
cient. Use .00035-
mfd. variable con-
densers on both
sides; also use an-
other to parallel tune
the tapped coil.
By bending a rotor
plate so that at full
capacity the con-
densers in series
with antenna and
earth short-out,
resonance should be
obtained at any of
the amateur fre-
quencies. (2) Yes.
Two turns maxi-
mum around the
P.A. tank and three
or four turns
around the antenna
tank. (3) This is
the Collins coupler,
and is particularly
suitable for youi
antenna system. Is
well worth trying
in your case. (4)
Not in efficiency,
but no doubt it
would radiate after
a fashion. Might be
suitable for local
working.
(1) In B. 2/10/’35 was described an audio
and R.F. oscillator in which the AK I could
be used. What is the winding data for the
air-cored coil, with size of former ? (2) Would
it be an advantage to use a variable condenser
in place of the .025 mfd. fixed condenser across
L 2 to alter audio output ? (3) I understand
that some loudspeakers reproduce frequencies
between 50 and 7500 cycles. How much lower
can the human ear respond to ? —385.
(1) About 800 turns of fine enamelled wire
on a lin. former should be suitable. (2) Yes,
but the variation in audio frequency will not
be very wide. A larger variable condenser
would be an advantage —say .OOlmfd. (3)
It is possible for the human ear to respond
to 16 cycles. The higher-frequency limit is
around 5200 cycles.
* * * *
In the regenerative reflex (B. 21/11/ ’34) I
am puzzled at the lack of regeneration in my
case. The receiver is a great success except for
this. Consequently, short-wave results are only
fair. I.F. transformers have been lined up, but
only one will peak correctly. The others reach
a point where the receiver howls and “motor-
boats.” What is wrong? —3Bl.
The first thing to clean up is the R.F. and
audio instability. It is impossible to get results
from this receiver unless the I.F. stages are
“on the nose” and perfectly stable. Try shunt-
ing the audio impedance in the 287 by a ,2meg.
or ,25meg. resistor. Variable-selectivity I.F.
transformers were used in the original, and
these are advisable, in view of the regenerative
feature of this receiver. With everything stable,
the R.F. choke prevents oscillation, and the
small condenser across this is adjusted until
regeneration and consequent building up of the
signal take place. It is a little tricky, but well
worth while.
# * * *
(1) I am building a three-.valve single-signal
superhet, and would appreciate a circuit.
Quartz-crystal filter is not wanted. (2) In the
circuit enclosed the number of turns on L l
is 24 on a former 1 jin. in diameter. What
would be the number of turns on L 2 ? —383.
(1) The circuit diagram given shows one
form of the recently developed Jones three-
valve superhet. There are several interesting
features about this, chief of which are the
iron-cored intermediate transformer, regenera-
tive first detector and regenerative second
detector. The latter is its own beat-oscillator
for C.W. Performance equal to multi-
valve S.S. superhets is claimed, but the im-
portant point is the iron-cored I.F.T. These
should be obtainable from local coilmakers
shortly, and a receiver will be constructed, using
six-volt valves, and described in due coiirse.
(2) Eight to ten turns would be suitable for L 2.
“RENODE” AN AUSTRALIAN DEVELOPMENT.
In the issue of The Bulletin, 8/1 / ’36,
was reviewed from “Wireless World”
(Eng.) a new valve development described
as the “Renode” from a Danish source.
Some “new” developments in radio
are sometimes reapplications of old
inventions. This is the case with the
“Renode,” which on investigation
proves to have been originated in
Australia in 1924 by Mr. E. T.
Fisk, chairman of directors of Amal-
gamated Wireless (Australasia), Ltd.
Mr. E. A. Burbury, of the patents de-
partment of A.W.A., forwards the com-
plete patent specifications, diagrams from
which are reproduced. Mr. Fisk applied
for a patent on the valve on June 19,
1924, the patent being granted on Sep-
tember 9, 1925, and numbered 18283/24.
The specifications, which are available
for examination, show that Mr. Fisk
worked out circuit arrangements show-
ing how the valve could be used for recti-
fication, amplification and the generation
of oscillations. These circuits are inter-
esting, and reveal clearly that Mr. Fisk’s
development and the “Renode” operate
in the same manner. Overseas technical
authorities, please note!


“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
brake
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car cancome
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Flop.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
HAMPION
SPARKING PLUGS
WINDSOR,
CANADA
give better
performance
in every
engine
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
I
Cfl^MPh
iji'/
mm
WORLD
leaders
FOR 25
YEARS
The Steering Column.
PERFORMANCE AND PRICE.
WHERE THE HUMAN ELEMENT COMES IN.
BY FRED BERRY.
AT a price, it is possible to-day to buy an automobile exactly
comforming to the performance requirements of any owner.
Whether the desire is to establish open speed records or to
obtain extremely high speeds from exceedingly small engines,
it can be done if the money is available.
When important records are established it will usually be
found that the car involved is of special design, costing anything
from £20,000 to £lOO,OOO. Machines used in establishing
world’s records and, to a lesser degree, those competing in
Continental road-racing classics are available only to a few
wealthy enthusiasts or to professionals who earn their livelihood
by regularly competing in international events for rich prizes.
It is, however, when the keen student of motoring begins to
examine the numerous standard productions that he becomes
impressed with the wide variation in prices for cars of apparently
identical performance, with the rapid bridging of the gap in
passenger comfort and riding qualities in all classes, and then is
puzzled as to why two cars of similar type of horse-power and
made in the same works should' give dissimilar results. The
factors involved are discussed in this article.
So far as the price-performance issue
is concerned it has peen apparent for
many years that a small section of motor-
ists have been and still are prepared to
pay for a name of repute in order to
maintain their motoring status. Further,
there are still many motorists who claim
that the “hand-built” job must be superior
in every way to the mass-production car.
While this may have been partly true
in pre-war days it does not hold good
to-day,, for the majority of parts in any
automobile can now, to say the least, be
made as well by mass-productions pre-
cision methods as by the most
highly-skilled workmen with a limited
output, with the added advantage, from a
service viewpoint, of standard dimensions
and interchangeability of parts.
During the last decade strenuous com-
petition in the U.S.A. has resulted in the
establishment of research departments
and testing grounds where each year ad-
vance models are driven to destruction in
order to discover inherent weaknesses in
design or potential service worries when
deviation is made from standard practice.
As a result of these tests motorists can
now be assured that even the lowest-
priced mass-production type has a poten-
tial life of 100,000 miles before a major
overhaul becomes necessary ; and, further,
it will be capable of a road performance
involving speed and acceleration far in
excess of the requirements of the average
driver.
Costly Fittings.
Interior fittings, hardware, trimmings
and upholstery used in the higher-priced
groups will undoubtedly be superior in
appearance to those fitted to mass-pro-
duction types, but whether these units do
last longer or are less susceptible to
breakdown is open to question.
All-steel bodies, evolved and more or
less standardised in the lower-priced
groups, will definitely give less service
troubles, cost less to maintain and last
longer than the old-fashioned conven-
tional type of coachwork, however costly
it may be.
Tests of all popular cars available over
the Bulletin course prove conclusively
that road performance is usually beyond
criticism, so the deciding factors in the
Claims of originality in suspension are discounted by the accompany-
ing illustration from “Speed." This tri-car of 1902 vintage had
independent front-wheel suspension, did 60 m.p.g. and 25,000 miles
on set of tyres.
minds of new-car buyers should be re-
liability and freedom from service wor-
ries. Here again the mass-production
product compares more than favorably
with costly machines, for, where in the
one instance a chauffeur or mechanic is
employed to supervise the running of the
car, owners of cheaper types expect satis-
factory results for months on end with-
out any further attention than adding
petrol and oil; and in this, as a general
rule, they are seldom disappointed.
The human element is, however, still a
deciding factor in assessing the per-
formance of any car, whatever its price
may be. Professional drivers operating
expensive machines under the direct
supervision of owners must perforce
conform to certain sane rules which are
all to the good so far as reliability and
service are concerned. On the other
hand, many novice drivers, immediately
they possess a high-performance mass-
production motor, proceed to abuse it in
every conceivable manner.
As a direct result of this unintelligent
handling there will be a lowering in
overall efficiency and a considerable re-
duction in potential life, together with
excessive maintenance and operating
costs.
Careful Running-in.
Mass-production cars, in order to keep
costs to a minimum, are merely
assembled from component' parts —made,
of course, by precision methods —before
delivery to the owner, and have not been
afforded the luxury of a “running-in”
period, as is customary with higher-
priced vehicles. Hence those owners who
drive their cars on full throttle before
2000 or 3000 miles have elapsed must
expect to pay for their folly in some
direction, as each time full power is
applied during this initial period exces-
sive local heating is generated, and a
partial seizure of one or other of the
reciprocating units, cylinder walls or
bearings is inevitable.
Owners who desire high performance
and trouble-free running must therefore
realise that, in instances where piston slap
or excessive oil consumption is experi-
enced during the first year of operation,
there is occasion to carefully analyse their
driving methods rather than to blame
defective material or workmanship in the
cars they drive.
Excessive fuel consumption has fre-
quently been the cause of bickering and
discontent with owners of popular types
of cars, but here again it will invariably
be found that the major fault lies with
the man at the wheel, as tests conducted
by the writer go to prove.
Impressive Test.
Weighing 32cwt. and the motor rated
at 27 h.p., fuel consumption over an out-
and-back course of 150 miles was 19.7
m.p.g. at an average of 30 m.p.h. At
40 m.p.h., the consumption fell to 18.6 ;
at 50, to 17.1 ; at 60 (on a shorter course),
to 15.3; and on full throttle to 11.9
m.p.g.
Broadly speaking, the full track family
sedan of between 25 and 30 R.A.C. h.p.
is supposed to average 20 m.p.g. on tour.
Carburettors in these cars are so designed
as to be for all intents and purposes fool-
proof, meaning that they will start the
motor easily from cold, and (which is
perhaps of greater importance) will not
stall when the novice driver, from a low
road speed, presses the accelerator to
the floor when accelerating in traffic. To
secure such performance the practice in
modern assemblies is to incorporate a
dash pot and accelerating pump in the
carburettor; and, while these devices
admirably suit the purposes for which
they are intended, they can and do waste
fuel in a prodigal manner in the hands
of an unskilful driver.
Should there be any owner dubious
as to the influence of the human element
in operating these cars, it may be of
interest to learn that, in a test of 12 types
heading the Australian sales list and
tested under technical supervision over
a difficult course of 165 miles, each aver-
aged better than 30 m.p.g. at a driving
speed of 30 m.p.h.
With regard to passenger comfort and
roadworthiness it must be admitted that
until recent years the mass-production
car-designer attempted the impossible.
Certainly thin flexible springs provided
a suspension ideal up to road speeds of
40 m.p.h., but at maximum speeds in
cornering or. driving over rough high-
ways a distinct hazard was introduced.
In high-priced cars and those of Con-
tinental manufacture the great asset in
the past has been stability on corners
and safety at speed.
Spring Design.
In modern designs, however, these dis-
abilities have been eliminated, and inde-
pendent front-wheel suspension (adopted,
incidentally, by designers of the most
expensive cars), coupled with the stand-
ardisation of two-way hydraulic shock-
absorbers on all four wheels, have, in
effect, reduced all road vehicles to a com-
mon level so far as roadworthiness and
stability are concerned.
There still remain the apparent differ-
ences in performance of cars of identical
price-type and make. In this connection
there is nothing mysterious, _ for results
are governed by the enthusiasm of the
owner and what money he is prepared
to expend in achieving the desired result.
Take the case of a mass-production
car bought by an enthusiast with a flair
for racing and competition driving. Pro-
vided reasonable care is exercised during
the “running-in” period the car will con-
form in every respect to standard speci-
fications and prove entirely satisfactory
until the owner reads in the press that
this make of car has been timed under
official supervision to cover a measured
mile at 85 m.p.h., while the best he can
get is the guaranteed 75.
The reason is not far to seek, for the
car that gave such remarkable speed was
super-tuned at considerable expense.
Compression was raised; perhaps a new
racing cylinder-head was fitted. Special
camshaft and carburettor helped, and
infinite time and a lot of money was
spent on balancing road wheels and re-
ciprocating units and in reduction of
chassis weight. So the stock model be-
came a wolf in sheep’s clothing, despite
the fact that the motor had still the same
cubic capacity and outward and visible
manifestations of these subtle alterations
were absent.


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
BEFO*
SIMONIZ
YOUR
CAR
It Will Sparkle Like New Again!
AFTER
&
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, 5/-.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
SB
o
Sp-nd/q
i#
Genuine Dufor Valves and Guides "stand up” to the
most gruelling conditions ol service.
They are made from specially selected steel and
heat-treated for tgughness in one of the most modern
factories in the Southern Hemisphere.
Always specify genuine Dufor Valves. Silchrome (for
exhaust), Al\py (for inlet), and Dufor Valve Guides.
Every genuine Dufor Valve and Guide is branded as
an assurance of efficiency and long life.
There is a Dufor Valve and Guide to suit all popular
cars and trucks.
DULY & HANSFORD LTD.
MARRICK VILLE. N.S.W.
DUFOR
GENUINE
VALVES AND GUIDES
N.S.W. Open Speed Championship.
The fastest cars in N. S. Wales faced
the A.A.A. officials on the Northbourne
course, Canberra, and although the exist-
ing record (112.5 m.p.h.) for the flying
mile, held by W. B. Thompson in a
supercharged Bugatti, still remains un-
broken, some fast times were established.
Subject to A.A.A. confirmation results
were recorded as follows:
Standing Flying
Start, Start,
Driver. Car. m.p.h. m.p.h.
R. Mackellar Fronty Ford 78.402 103.746
YV. A. Mclntyre Hudson 8 76.595 103.448
T. Peters S/c Bugatti 76.271 106.820
W. H. Stokes Railton 8 74.688 101.694
B. L. Tyson Terraplane 74.534 98.360
\V. A. Mclntyre Kirby Deering Sp. 73.619 105.882
J. Fagan S/c Magnette 68.833 103.448
Speedway Racing.
Australia Wins Fourth Test.
At the Speedway Royal (Sydney),
before 10,000 enthusiastic spectators,
Australia won the fourth test match,
beating England by 39 points to 33, mak-
ing four wins in a row against the pick
of overseas riders.
Brilliant and consistent riding by Max
Grosskreutz (Aus.) in heading the field
in each of the four heats entered was
chiefly responsible for the result.
Heavy rain caused the remainder of
the events to be abandoned.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
L.M. (Gatton, Q.). —(1) My ’27 car (24,000
miles ) is in good order, except for slight piston
slap. Is this serious ? (2) Tyres are 4.40, and
there is ample clearance between tyres and
guards. Can 1 fit larger tyres, and what are
advantages and disadvantages ? (3) What mile-
age should I get per gallon, and why is it
that, using a first-grade spirit, the motor does
not pink, but results are not good ? (4) What
is your opinion of the fuel-economising device
described ?
(1) Slap is due to piston and cylinder wear,
and if the car is to be kept in use much longer
it would be advisable either to rebore or reline
cylinders. (2) Oversize tyres can be fitted to
existing rims, but if low-pressure balloons are
proposed it will involve rebuilding the wheels
and fitting new rims. Advantages of large-sec-
tion tyres are better riding and less trouble
from punctures and less cost per mile. Pis-
advantages, nil. (3) Try advancing the igni-
tion point and see if better consumption is
secured. (4) Similar devices have been in use
for many years. Can’t do any harm, although
little improvement may be noticed.
* * * *
A. (Blaxland, N.S.W.).—My 75 model
is very stubborn to start from cold, the bat-
tery almost failing sometimes before the engine
fires. Have tried ignition in all positions and
throttle and choke open and shut without suc-
cess. When hot, motor starts easily. Recently
fitted new distributor head, and plugs are in
order. Any suggestions ?
Probably the carburettor is at fault. This
model was fitted with an electric fumer at the
base of the carburettor. This was removed
and the holes covered with strips of metal.
If these strips have been dislodged air will
leak in irrespective of choke position, with
consequent difficulty in starting from cold.
Remove carburettor, turn upside down and
make sure both holes at base and at side are
completely blocked.
* * * *
B. (Randwick, N.S.W.). — I had intended
buying a new car (named) until I was informed
that these engines develop piston slap after
5000 miles. If this is so is it a serious matter ?
In isolated cases piston slap may develop
in any engine, and the one you mention is no
worse in this respect than others of like type.
* * * *
G. L. le E. (Yelarbon, Q.). — 1 am having
trouble with my trailer coupling. Load is up
to 1 5cwt. behind a V 8 Ford, and trips of up to
220 miles are made daily in hilly country. Can
yOu give me a Sydney address of trailer expert ?
Write Pollock, Broughton-strcet, Woolloo-
mooloo.
* * * *
H. (Stanthorpe, Q.). — Would you supply
me with particulars as to country of manufac-
ture, h.p. and gearing of the two tractors
named, and what numbers of A have so far
been produced.
A is an Australian product, 22 h.p., gearing
ahead 1.3, 1.9, 2.6, 3.6, 5.4 and reverse
4 m.p.h.; number delivered 337. B is English-
made, 18.3 h.p., gearing 2.2, 3.1 and 7.75
m.p.h.
. * * * $
J.S.L. (Grafton, N.S.W.).—/ have a ’3O six-
cylinder car (18,300 miles ) in good order. Have
been troubled for some time with a spray of
oil and dirt over bonnet, front guards and
windscreen, but under bonnet appearance is
normal and fan shows no signs of oily matter.
Can you suggest cause of trouble ?
Check breather pipes fore and aft of crank-
case and see they carry vapors clear of tray.
Also note whether in adjusting timing chain
you have not gone too far, resulting in the oil
hole coming round to the top of the casing.
*** • *
E.H. (Hobart). —(1) My four-cylinder tourer,
after driving several miles at 45 m.p.h. on level
road or on a long climb in top, suddenly gets
hot. Slowing to 25 m.p.h. heat returns to
normal. Engine appears to race at 45 m.p.h.,
but heavy loads On first and second gears
cause no trouble. What’s wrong ? (2) Can l
determine the model by reference to engine
number ? ■
(1) The smoother torque in intermediate
gears is less likely to cause slip than on full
throttle in top. Suggest inspection of clutch
assembly and adjustment of tension or refacing
if necessary. (2) Write to manufacturers for
particulars of engine Series.
H.A. (Macorna, Vic.). —To change a spare
6v. wireless battery I ran a wire from the
cutout on my generator (Ford A) to the bat-
tery negative, completing circuit to frame from
the positive. When car is running ammeter
now shows five amps. — half-charge—but when
motor is stopped a five-amp. discharge is shown
until earth wire is disconnected. Cause and
cure ?
First make certain that the lead comes from
battery side of cutout and not the generator
side, aiso that terminals connected on the
spare battery are of like polarity to those of
the standard equipment.
if * * *
N.W.O. (Charleville, Q.). —(1) My ’2B sports
roadster recently overhauled has developed a
badly-sticking clutch. The only way to get
low gear from a standing start is to get the
gear with clutch out before pressing self-
starter, and even then the car will move ahead
a foot or two. Trouble developed almost im-
mediately after overhaul, and on taking down
clutch, cleaning and adjusting it was good for
300 miles, after which trouble again appeared.
Reason ? (2) Would spring clips or shock-
absorbers be best to hold car down on rough
roads?
(1) Trouble is certainly due to oil on clutch.
Over-lubrication of clutch withdrawal mechan-
ism is probably responsible, otherwise oil is
escaping from the gearbox or from the rear
main engine bearing. (2) Two-way shock-
absorbers of good design would be more suit-
able than spring clips.
* * * *
J.P. (Gundagai, N.S.W.).—/ have narrowed
my selection of a new car to the five named.
Which would you suggest is niost suitable for
my purposes ?
If price is no consideration, 3, then 1, 2
or 4, then 5.
* * * *
D.E.D. (Kalangardo, W.A.). — 1 am building
a three-wheeler and am puzzled as to best
method Of springing rear wheel and maintain-
ing even chain tension. Where could I secure
information on this subject ?
Write to Morgan Motor Co., Malvern,
Worcestershire, England, for catalogue of
their successful three-wheeler.
* * * *
LJ.T. (Horsham, Vic.). —Can you supply
me with particulars of age, reliability, maxi-
mum speed, etc., of six-cylinder Stephens car
recently purchased second-hand, and whether
spares are obtainable ?
Cars were imported in ’23; none since.
Solid, reliable assembly. Max. speed when
new was approx. 65 m.p.h. Unable to locate
supplier of spare parts.
* * * *
H.S.A. (Maryborough, Q.). —Please let me
have your opinion of car named as compared
with other small cars.
Compares favorably with similar sports types
both in performance and reliability.
* * * *
R.B. (Echuca, Vic.). —Which of two types
of car named will, over four years’ running at
8000 p.a., give greater reliability and which
will have the better relative resale value ?
Little to choose between performance or
reliability. No. 1 is slightly faster, and No. 2
is sprung independently. Resale value should
be slightly in favor of No. 1.
“Mahogany”: A Baby Austin flashed
round the corner, and narrowly missed
being pinned by our Buick Six. We
noticed something written on the back,
and raced after it to see what it was.
After a short burst we sheepishly
dropped back. We read, “Hit someone
your own size.”


“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
tlx mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
If we could
only tell YOU
What WE know
about our
customers’ results
THEN . . .
Everyone with
Goods to Sell
would “be in”
“The News”
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor
Newsoauer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludearp
Hill. 8.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post’
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply t 0
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
liET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from I*. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. (». Pike,
Newspaper Hous£, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-H* SATU R.DAY £V€ NIN G
& >:*
Is published and circulates in Launceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-East,
North-West, and the Midlands. No papers are
published on Sundays in Tasmania; therefore,
advertise in “The Saturday Evening Express”
for the Sunday readers.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Ruve herself seemed to move like a figure in a
dream. She felt that with marriage she would belong,
altogether to Fiji; would become part of the young,
growing country. Sydney seemed far away now, only
real in that it held Aunt Ellice, from whom came
long, tender letters. Art was for a time dislodged
in her soul; she could not give it all her allegiance—
couldn’t concentrate on it in these days in which
life seemed to have become more vibrant and purpose-
ful. She couldn’t put life in pictures yet;' it was to
be lived first, and soul and , body thrilled to the
adventure of it. To the full that passion of her
father’s for Ruvia was awakening in her for the little
estate that awaited her coming ; she was true daughter
to him in that one respect. Even Dick did not thrill
so much to the possession of Vunisesi as did Ruve.
Elena saw that trait in her.
She said, 'half-laughing, half in earnest:
“Don’t let it get you, too, Ruve.”
“Don’t let what get me?” asked Ruve, puzzled.
“The idea that a place matters more than people.
Your father did. that. Ruvia mattered more than your
mother did to him. More, I think, than I ever did, or
any one of us.”
Ruve, with a flash of insight, saw more than
Elena meant.
“Ah! How dreadful! But I’m not like that.
You don’t mean I think more of owning Vunisesi
than of marrying Dick, do you? I couldn’t.” ,
“I don’t know,” said Elena reflectively. “There’s
a lot of your father in you, Ruve; I can see it.
You’re both strong-willed, and you both get what
you want.”
But Elena wasn’t altogether right. Ruve’s heart
went out to the little estate she and Dick hoped so
much from ; that was true enough. But, shadowy now
in the background of her mind, dwelt the longing for
all that the life in Sydney had meant; the little time
she had had as an art student had been stimulating
to dreams and ambitions —all she had hoped to
compass. But she could succeed here. She would
work, teach herself, read all she could, make life full
and interesting. After all, life was ultimately the best
teacher. If the gift was in her, nothing could stifle
it. She looked forward to the future with unafraid,
desiring eyes. The colorful, the hopeful future. She
dreamed.
She was quick to feel things at this time. Little
things, kindnesses. All the world seemed kind to her
now; even her stiff father seemed to want to safe-
guard her, to help her. She caught sometimes his
brooding gaze on her, and felt vaguely then that he
was trying in some strange fashion to put out hands
across the gulf between them. She could pity him
then; but the gulf between them was too deep to
cross.
She went often to Madeline’s grave—the unknown
mother of whom Aunt Ellice’s memories made such
an appealing, lovable figure. “If you had only lived —
if I could only remember your face!” she said, her
lips against the cold stone on which it was recorded
that Madeline had been the beloved wife of James
Laurence. Had her mother loved her father as she
loved Dick? she wondered.
Everyone was kind to her: Elena ; old, secretive
Batila, who had always been fond of her ; wistful
Vivien; the Indian women, who pressed on her the
little trinkets they cherished.
She was to be married in Valoa. She was glad
that the minister who had married Rod and Lola was
away on furlough. She felt she could not have stood
in that room which had seen that earlier disastrous
marriage. The magistrate would perform the simple
ceremony, with only the immediate members of her
family for audience. After, she and Dick were to
ride over the low hills to Vunisesi and begin life there
together.
Early in January Laurence took his wife and the
two girls across to Valoa. Laurence himself was going
back the same day to Ruvia, but would return on the
day of the wedding. ’
Valoa, old and young, from externally romantic
Adela Bennett to the magistrate’s six-year-old
daughter, from the oldest Fijian grandmother, smoking
reflectively in the sunlight, to the scrawny urchin .who
swept desultorily the store, was intensely interested in
the event.
And then into the quiet week came the beginning
of disaster. Denny Bennett, who had been away,
came back to Valoa.
Elena and Ruve saw the change in Vivien before
they knew. All in a moment, it seemed, she flashed back
into the old, glowing, reckless Vivien. Color burned
in her cheeks, her eyes were like stars ; she laughed,
they heard her singing softly to herself. They saw
Denny’s tall figure pass in the green twilight, and were
afraid, without knowing why they feared —as if pre-
monition came to them both. They looked at each
other.
“So it’s that,” said Elena. “I wondered. Thank
God, father went back to Ruvia ; but he’ll come back.
Why couldn’t Denny have stayed away—at least, till
we had gone?” , >
“I wonder,” said Ruve slowly, “if they met in
Suva? You remember —that night she was so strange
and excited. I thought it just a mood —she’s so easily
up in the clouds. And Denny was in Suva at that
time. I heard that to-day.”
“Father will be furious if they did. Say nothing,
Ruve. It will do no good now.”
“But you must do something,” said Ruve. “Oh,
Elena, keep her safe. She’s in a reckless mood—she
won’t care what she does as long as she and Denny
can be together. And father will cast her off, like
Rod. He’ll be hard enough if she goes against him.
Denny won’t be able to look after her if they do
marry. Father’s right there! God knows what will
happen to her if she marries Denny. They’re both so
young and foolish.”
But Vivien was headstrong. She looked at them
with lovely,' defiant eyes.
“Why mustn’t I see Denny?” she cried impatiently.
“I don’t care what dad says—or does. Denny and I
love each other —we’re only young once. You said
yourself,” she accused her mother, “that it was only
natural to love and be happy—if you could. Denny
and I will never be young again or happy —as we are
now. Dad can’t order Denny off Valoa.”
“I will marry him!” Vivien flamed. “Or no one
else in the world. If only I were twenty-one! It’s so
long to wait. No one else can ever be like Denny to
me. I don’t care if he doesn’t ever make money or
get on. He’s Denny —that’s all that matters.”
They could do nothing with her.
Elena in desperation went to Peter Harley—the
lover of her tempestuous youth.
Sunset flamed red over Valoa ; the hot, sinister
light reddened the oily sea. The day had been one of
burning heat. Stained with the sinister light, the still-
handsome half-caste looked at the woman for whose
love he had once been the formidable Laurence’s rival.
“What can I do, Elena?” he said. “What con-
cern is it of mine? I can’t interfere.”
“If you could only get Denny away before my
husband comes back from Ruvia! There’ll be trouble
if they meet. I’m in terror of it. You could easily
get him away.”
“How? I can’t kidnap the boy.”
“You could let him take Joni’s place in your
cutter,” said Elena feverishly. “Joni’s sick in the town,
isn’t he? It would be only for one trip. Denny wants
a job badly; and he’s worth two men in a boat—my
husband always says that of him. Please, Peter! Give
Denny the job and get him away—quickly.”
“He’s good enough that way,” Harley allowed
slowly. “But I’d all but promised the job to Joni’s
son.”
“Oh, don’t mind that! Will you do it, Peter?
Denny won’t refuse. The Bennetts are always too
short of money for that. Please, Peter! For my sake!
You would have done anything for me once.”
Her dark, caressing eyes and his sombre ones
met and remembered many things.
“You could always do what you liked with me,
Elena,” Harley said. “Denny can have it —if he’ll take
a Fijian’s job.”
“He’ll take it,” said Elena. “When are you
sailing?”
“To-morrow morning, early. This isn’t a good
month to be out in, though it’s fine enough now.
But I’ve a feeling I’d like this trip over. I’ll be glad
to be back.”
Ruve woke on her wedding-day to a breezy
dawn. Over the flushing sky clouds sailed with the
wind ; outside the reef the waves tossed their white
crests. It was not long after eight o’clock that Peter
Harley and Denny put out to sea in the little Lotisa.
Beating out against a headwind, they were barely
clear of Valoa when Laurence arrived in the Ruvia
launch.
It was over. She was Ruve Carew, and the magis-
trate who had married them was making a kindly
speech of congratulation. Elena kissed her and, some-
what to his surprise,, Dick. Vivien clung close a
moment, and then her father conferred the grim kiss
that was exchanged between them only on occasions
of ceremony. She was Dick’s wife.
That afternoon the glass began to fall, and the
sky grew ominous. The little Ruvia party, who had
intended to be home by nightfall, put off the journey
till the morrow; and Dick and Ruve started for
Vunisesi earlier than had been planned. It was little
more than an hour’s ride to the other side of Valoa.
Cresting the low hills, they felt the strengthening
of the wind. Trees rocked to and fro, and far out on
either side of the long island they saw the menacing
sea. Waves crashed on the reef, and seemed to rise
above it in towering white walls. Down below them
little Vunisesi lay in an angry light.
Ruve turned to Dick in terror.
“Dick! Poor Denny and Peter Harley! Out in
this! I’d forgotten them.”
“Dearest! Don’t worry—yet. Harley is a tough
old hand, and Denny’s a marvel in a boat. They’ll
be sheltering somewhere down the coast. You can
be quite sure of that. They’ll have seen the storm
coming in ample time.”
“If we could be sure!”
“Of course, we can be sure! Only sensible thing
to do. You can’t teach Harley his job. And let’s push
on. I’d like a dry bride, and not a mermaid.”
But the rain had soaked them through and
through before they descended the last slopes of the
hills. The kind old house that had weathered so many
storms took them to itself.,
{To be continued next week.)


KEEP FIT
7/i
v./ /'
$
m
n
V
W/,
//.
J
//
v
IT
>^r
/*
/
5
//i
//
MNON
Mll«
Life is splendid fun when you
are fit. You feel happy and want
others to be happy also. On the
other hand, the person with a
sluggish liver and a system
poisoned through constipation is
generally sick and tired of every-
thing, thus showing how the condi-
tion of the liver, which plays an
important part in regulating the
bowels, influences one’s outlook on
life.
As a medicine for stirring the liver and regulating
the bowels, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are held in
the highest regard by thousands who have used them
with the utmost satisfaction.
j
I
jy
0
i
PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
Mirpil
Is Ideal (or
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more libera
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until dry.
The cleansing and cooling actions of
this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or will be sent
post paid upon receipt, of postal
notes' or stamps by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out .at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or direct from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
a
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
> ...••• ,-•
e '*' - •••■ •••■■■
-t^* 1 o\*\ .••■’ .-**’
i\C v Vm
~\ ' , # sS .* *’ > * 6 > c V vv
AS ~ », . A’O 0
#•
tA* s * .•** .*■ ■<s


If every Wife knew what every Widow knows,
every Married Man would carry the Maximum
Amount of Life Assurance that he (and his
Wife) could buy.
The One Investment that Completes Itself
Life Assurance guarantees the delivery of money that time will bring if
you do not live long enough to complete the job.
r -■ m g . i
%5-Fi! S
<
mm*
V I
r 1
m
m
,
Calculating the amount of Income his Wife and Family would have to live
OH in the event of his early death.
Send your name and address for particulars of the
Latest 15% Family Protection Contracts
providing for Monthly Income for Wife and Family for periods as long as
twenty years after death of assured, the premium for which is very little
greater than for the ordinary Life Policy.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
Corner of Castlereagh Street and Martin Place, Sydney
FOUNDED IN 1886
Branches throughout Australia , New Zealand, in Canada and Great Britain
Assets Exceed £23,000,000 - - Annual Income Exceeds £3,200,000
Amounts paid to policyholders Exceed/ £30,000,000
